--~-------------------------------------------------~------------------------------­

Tuesday, November 18, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 56 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• ~AMPUS liFE COUNCil 
Student publication reps speak with council 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associare News Ediror 
Following up on the issue of general campus media cover­age, Campus Life Council invit­ed n~prnsentatives from The Observer and Scholastic Magazine to its meeting last night. 
The Observer editor-in-chief Brad Pn~ndergast. Scholastic editor-in-chief Kristin Alworth and Scholastic managing editor 
W. Patrick Downes lidded questions about dents over 21 to attend the Alumni Senior Club on campus but prohibits University faculty members from allowing alcohol to be part of a responsible drinking atmosphere on campus at an event that involves stu­dents over 21. 

"I am a little discouraged to hear of the broadening use of alcohol," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, in response to the dis­cussion. "I ask that the mem­bers consider tackling the issue of binge drinking and underage intoxication on campus. I would appreciated any help on the part of the University in that task." 
The committee will continue working in conjunction with the Faculty Senate, particularly 
see CLC I page 4 
the rights and responsi­
continued. bilitins of their publica­Ava Preacher, assis­
'AsA PUBLIC RG­

tions to the Notre Dame tant dean of the College 

URE, I'M WILLING

community. of Arts and Letters, "Our job is to inform TO TAKE WHATEVER reminded meeting attendees of the bene­
our rnadership. We COMES WITH THE TERRI­
wouldn't be informing our rnaders fairly and TORY.' accurately if we weren't rPporting the 1wgative things," Alworth said. 
This camn after Fatlwr William Snetch notnd an apparPntly negative slant on campus issues in some stories and columns. specifically in Scholastic's "Campus Watch by tlw (;ipper." an anonymous column that occasionally targets campus officials. 
'"The Gipper' often has no proof. It is cowardly to not have somPoJW's nanw thPre," Seetch said. "Wp arc Plected officials, we are fair gam(~, but we are lwre to make this a better place. I fepJ that our campus media sometimes doesn't portray that." 

Morrissey senator Matt Szabo, often criticized by "the Gipper," stated that he has problems with inaccuracy in the column. 
"As a public figure, I'm willing to take whatever comes with the territory. I don't oppose it [the column! in theory. The problem I have with 'the Gipper' is with factual check­ing." 
Downes affirmed that all statements made by "the 
fits of campus media. 

''I'm a little worried 
about having these pea­
MATT SZABO pie in the hot seat," she said. "Every newspaper MORRISSEY SENATOR has a voice. I don't 
think you can ask peo­Gipper" arc "double and triple ple to hide their voices. We have checked" and that any misrep­to remember that these are stu­resentation is taken seriously by dents. A Jot can be forgiven. We the magazine. need more warring newspa­
"Embarrassment is a big pers. More power to them all." incentive not to make mis­In other news, the four CLC takes," he said. sub-committees reported on 
Prendergast welcomed any their discussion and progress feedback, in letters to the editor since the last meeting. or personal meetings, from • The alcohol committee will readers having problems with look into the "double standard The Observer's accuracy. lie for legal use of alcohol on cam­noted the importance of run­pus," according to McGlinn sen­ning corrections in the newspa­ator Heather DeJesus. They will per if neecssary, saying that tackle the issue that allows stu-
Saint Mary's choir releases first CD 
By ARIANN BUTLER NewsWtiter 
Add a name to the list of campus bands and musical groups who have released CDs. 
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir recorded their first CD entitled "Ave!Ave!" in the Church of Loretto last May. Featuring music from their 1997 spring break tour. the CD includes Spanish, Latino, French, and English music. 
"!The recording session) was kind of funny because we had to stop ever time a plane new overhead," Saint Mary's music major Eileen Nieli said. 
The Women's Choir had the opportunity to rework and re-record the songs to the utmost perfection according to junior Amy Noppenbcrg. "It was a luxury of technolo­gy. At our concerts, it's one shot and that's it." 
"Ave!Ave!" was produced hy the Women's Choir in only three recording sessions. 
The CD was not ready for sale, however, until the group's first concert last week in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The additional time was required over the summer for choir director Nancy Menk to choose the best versions of the songs recorded and Fred Hohman, the producer, to piece all the songs together. 
The appropriation of funds to produce "Ave!Ave!" was a len!-,>i.hy and detailed process. Approval of the project n~quired the board to continuously petition the adminis­tration. 
The Women's Choir choral board, consisting of two elected representatives from each class, began work on the project last October. 
"!The petitioning processl took a long time," said senior Jill Switzer. 
After several proposals, the Women's Choir gained the backing of the Student Activities Board, and completed the petitioning process with final approval from Dorothy Feigal, dean of faculty. . 
A portion of the proceeds from the CD will be used to reimburse the College for the cosi of production. The remaining monies will be used to help fund their tour with the Notre Dame Glee Club to Jerusalem next year. 

doing so brings an inaccuracy into public record as well as to the attention of the newspaper staff. 
"The bottom line is that we make mistakes. Every newspa­per makes mistakes. What a newspaper should be is a record of the truth, and if we don't get the truth out the first time, we're willing to get the truth out the second time," he said. 
"At The Observer, we have 
always striven to be 
accurate," Prendergast 
''To be white in this country is to be born biking 1 with the wind at your back, not in your face. " 

Ignatiev compares blacks and Irish 
basic human rights of Irish Catholics. Every realm of Irish Catholic life, ranging from spiritual to civil to domestic, was regulated, Ignatiev said. 
He insinuated that when these Irish Catholics reached America, they found them­selves in conditions similar to the free Negroes of the period. Forced into physieal labor on the railroads and canals when such employment was even available, these immigrants lived together with blacks in what Ignatiev called a "com­mon culture of the lowly." 
It was even speculated that if racial amalgamation was to occur in America, it would begin with the Irish and the blacks. 
Such was not the case, Ignatiev said. Although Irish patriot and leader of the Catholic independence move­ment Daniel O'Connell issued an appeal in 1841 signed by 60,000 Irish urging Irish­Americans to join the anti­slavery movement and thus do Ireland honor, Irish immi­grants in this country never adopted such a campaign. 
The Irish gradually became assimilated into the "white race" of America as the coun­try moved from an Anglo-
see IGNATIEV I page 4 

By SEAN O'CONNOR 
News Writer 

"How did the Catholic Irish, an oppressed race in Ireland, become part of an oppressing race in America?" 
Thus began Noel Ignatiev of the W.E.B. DuBois Institute for African-American studies at Harvard University in a lec­ture entitled "Running the Film Backwards: Ethnics and Whites in the Making of America" last night in .Jordan Auditorium. 
Ignatiev, author of the con­troversial book, "How the Irish Became White" and editor of a collection, "Racial Traitor," which won the 1997 American Book Award, spoke on sub­jects ranging from racial rela­tions in 19th century America to challenges of racial classifi­cations and calls for a restruc­turing of American society. 
According to Ignatiev, the Irish who immigrated to the United States in the first half of the 19th century came from a condition of oppression simi­Jar to that which affected American blacks of the time. 
Ignatieve spoke of the so­called "penal laws" imposed by the Protestant power struc­ture in Ireland severely which, in his opinion, restricted the page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Keeping my 
•


promises 
What was the last book you read out of 
your own free will that was not required for 
a class or assignment? Can you remember 
when you had the time to do such a thing? 
My CORE professor Anne Rosinski 
suggested to our class Wire Editor 
last spring that if we did 
one productive thing 
during the summer, it should be to finish 
"The Brothers Karamazov." The excerpts 
we had read in class inspired me, so I 
promised myself that during the summer I 
would finish the Dostoevsky work. 
Unfortunately, I got carried away with my 
subsequently grand ideas of reading all of 
the "classics" that I've never read. Needless 
to say, I got in a little over my head. Now, 
I'm almost ashamed to admit that I failed. 
By the nature of our educational system, 
we choose a major in college. We are given 
a wide variety of subjects in order to find 
one that is appealing to us. No matter what 
field of study we choose, we choose our 

major because we aspire to study four years' 
worth of one single subject, in the hopes that 
it will help us in our future endeavors. 
In doing this, we allow ourselves to be 
taught a great amount of one discipline, 
sometimes neglecting the immense endow­
ment of knowledge the intellectual world 
has to offer us. 
It is very possible that we take for granted 
all that our education has to offer us. We 
get so caught up in our desire to be the ulti­
mate "professional" that we forget our pri­
orities. We focus on an intangible quest to 

be that ultimate professional to the extent to 
which it distorts our vision from seeing that 
which is really important to our lives. 

Sometimes we neglect our future by trying 
to attain it before its time. 

In the mess of all of our papers, group pro­
jects, labs and deadlines, we leave behind 
the true intent of our college education: to 
learn to the best of our ability any and all 
subject matter, in the hopes that this knowl­
edge will establish our place in the world. 
In our ongoing struggle with the perfection 
the academic world demands of us, we can 
neglect our personal needs of alternate 
intellectual stimulation. 
In short, it is very easy to forget that our 

college education does more than get us our 
first job, but rather provide for us the 
framework of our entire lives. 
I'm not telling everyone one campus to 

reevaluate their major and go running off to 
declare a second, third or fourth major. I'm 
simply saying that because of the nature of 
our educational system, we cannot always 
find the time to experience all the facets of 
knowledge available. 
By doing extracurricular reading over 

breaks, we are invited to open ourselves to a 
new realm of understanding and enjoy the 
external intellectualism that we neglect 
within the demands of our academic course 
load. 
So, to all those who find the time to 
expand your mind by reading more than 
your necessary course work, I applaud you. 

You are the intellectual that I can only strive 
to be. For the rest of us, I pose one final 
question: What book will you pick up over 
break? 
I think it's time for me to keep my 
promise, and finish Dostoevsky. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Sarah Hansen  Tom Roland  
Anne Hosinski  Production  
Allison Koenig  Betsy Baker  
Sports  Heather Cocks  
Kevin Robinson  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Sam Assaf  
Colleen Gaughen  
Accent  
Rachel Torres  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, November 18, 19,97 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Yale University bans intercourse between profs, students 
The Yale University bulldog 


between students and professors, stu­dents and teaching assistants, and graduate students and their professors. 
Sledge turned in the committee's final draft to Provost Alison Hichard, Yale's chief academic and financial officer, on rriday morning. The draft will now be distributed to the University's 12 deans for comment, and should be ready for 
• HAR'\JAfW UNiVERSITY 
Students protest Guess? vendors 
BOSTON 

There were only 20 students, but the bullhorn seemed to double their numbers. "Guess? What? Guess? Sucks!" they shouted, so loudly that only a few customers dared enter the Newbury Street clothing store. Harvard undergraduates met up with students from the University of Massachusetts, MIT and area high schools at the Boston outpost of Guess? for Saturday's noisy protest of the labor used in manufac­turing Guess? products. The Harvard students were mem­bers of the Phillips Brooks House Association's Progressive Student Labor Movement (PSLM), known for organizing recent protests at Harvard Business School. "Boycott Guess?!" yelled Benjamin 0. Shuldiner '99, who wielded a sign. "You look at how clean cut Guess? is, but their clothes are made in sweatshops." "The Guess? Corporation is one of the worst abusers of sweatshop labor in the United States," said Justin B. Wood '98, a representative of Students Stop Sweatshops. 
• METRO STATE Cou.EGE 
Undergrad will run for state office in '98 
DENVEH, Colo. 

A Metro student will appear on the ballots in November 1998 as a Republican candidate for the state's !louse of Representatives. If he's elected, Ted Sell, a 26-year-old Metro journalism major with a 3.8 GPA, would be the fourth youngest state representative in Colorado history. Sell, a junior, is running for a seat in the HousP to represent District 3, which includes Sheridan, Englewood and South Denver. Though the election is still about a year away, Sell spends a lot of his time going door to door, campaigning and talking to the people he might represent. "If you're going to represent someone, you should know who they are," he said. Sell said he's running b!lcause he opposes the politics of Hep. Jennifer Veiga, a Democrat who is the current representative for District 3. Sell said he works 80-85 hours a week between school, work and politics. But his top priority is his son, 5­year-old Kevin, who lives with Sell's ex-wife but visits him about every other weekend. 
administrative approval by Jan. 1. 
The faculty and student committee convened last March to analyze Yale's sexual relations policy created the ban by instituting a new "conflict of inter­est" rule separate from the current sex­ual harassment policy enforced by Title IX. 
The sexual harassment policy ­which governs all relationships at Yale -is defined as an "unwelromed" sexu­al advance bPiieved to be offensive by the harassed party. The legal definition of harassment in a teaching relation­ship rests on the presence of a coerced exchange -such as a teacher giving good grades in return for sexual favors -or of a hostile or abusive work envi­ronment. 
Yale will publish the new conflict of interest rule in the Faculty Handbook alongside the sexual harassment policy, together titled "Policies on Sexual Harassment and Sexual Helations between Teachers and Students." 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

Yale will ban all sexual relationships between teachers and students, admin­istrators announced Friday afternoon. 
The ban comes one year after a Yale College sexual harassment grievance board found assistant mathematics pro­fessor Jay Jorgenson guilty of sexually harassing a female freshman in his Mathematics 120a class. 
Administrators said the policy change could come into effect as soon as next semester, because it will not need approval by the Yale Corporation. 
The current policy discourages but does not ban sexual relationships between students and faculty members. 
"The main rule is now crystal clear," said Calhoun College master William Sledge, who chaired the committee that created Yale's new policy. 
"Teachers and students cannot have sex, period." The rule applies to all student­teacher relationships, including those 
• CORNEll UNIVERSITY 
NASA to fund $17 million Cornell project 
ITHACA, N.Y. 

Cornell will soon be exploring the outer limits. The Cornell Astronomy Department announced at a press conference Friday that NASA will fund a $17 million project developed by Cornell astronomers to construct a mechanized robot, named Athena, to explore Mars. Leading the group develop­ing the robot will be Prof. Steven Squyres. The team will include scientists from the United States, Germany, and Denmark. The goals of the mission are to collect sharp pic­tures of Martian terrain, determine the properties of the planet's landscape, identify the elements and minerals that compose the soil, and collect rock samples for possible trans­port back to Earth. "We're going to answer a lot of questions we've had about Mars," said James Bell, senior research associate of astronomy and a participant in the project. "This is exploration in its truest sense," Squyres said. "I don't know what we're going to find." The Athena project is one part of NASA's mjssion to collect and analyze data on Mars. 
• MARSHAll UNIVERSITY 
M.U. speakers recall football tragedy 
HUNTINGTON. W.V. 

Twenty-seven years ago many thought there may never be another Marshall football team. But Thursday a number of those people responsible for what many now call one of the most successful grid programs in the nation took time to remember the early years. It was Nov. 14, 1970, near Tri­State Airport that 75 people died in one of the worst sports accident in the nation's history when the Southern Airways DC-9 crashed. The dead included most members of the Herd football team. Serious thought was given to doing away with football at Marshall as there virtually was no team left. More than 100 students, faculty, administrators and towns­people gathered at the Memorial Fountain outside the stu­dent center for the annual memorial service. "I think this gives us the inspiration, the will and the drive, and I feel like they are looking over us a little," said Herd coach Bob Pruett, one of the memorial speakers. Afterward, Pruett said, "I know I got a little emotional." 
• StHJTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

H L Tuesday ~43 29 
Wednesday~ Thursday ~ Friday ~ Sata~rday >~ 
. ~..5·.........,rv··-."'v,·· '·;.,r' 
\ 
42 26 40 30 40 29 
36 21 

• NATIONAl WEATHER The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 18. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associaled Press 
Atlanta 55 36 Honolulu 78 64 New Orleans 63 Baltimore 48 27 Houston 64 47 49 
Boston 44 30 Las Vegas 64 42 Phoenix 75 50
4,~,~9.88 (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 44 30 Milwaukee 45 22 Seattle 52 46 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Tuesday, November 18, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• GREAT BRITAIN


Professors. sponsor 

Windsor Castle re-opens for party
annual Chicago trip 
Friday for 1,500 people

• CORRECTHJi\1 
involved in the restora-

An article in Monday's Observer, "Experts to discuss tion project. L'::::===========================::!_j Alzheimer's," incorrectly reported the date on which a research She said "it is the best year that also saw the collapse ages the family's art collection. summit about the disease will take place. anniversary present that she of the marriages of her elder The doors of Windsor 
The summit is scheduled to begin today at 1 p.m. with a video­could possibly have," said Judy sons, Prince Charles and Castle's refurbished Upper taped message from former first lady Nancy Reagan; all sessions Wade, royal correspondent for Prince Andrew. Ward will be thrown open to will take place in the .Jordan Auditorium in the College of Business Britain's glossy Hello! maga­But the renovations were the public on Dec. 27, about Administration. zine, who was among the jour­completed ahead of schedule six months earlier than origi­
The Observer regrets llze error. nalists allowed to preview the and about $5 million (3 million nally planned. restoration work Monday. pounds) under budget -in Other portions of the sprawl­The fire in 1992 -which part by driving hard bargains ing white stone castle, which
got news? 
was started by a curtain rest­with contractors who sought a sits atop a chalk hill above the ing on a high-intensity spot­piece of the action. River Thames about 20 miles light -capped what the queen "Everyone wanted to be west of London, were re­
Call The Observer at 1-5323. 
called her "annus horribilis," a involved in the restoration of opened to tourists shortly after 


Windsor Castle 
The Great F~e of 20 November 1992 destroyed the northea~t corner of the Upper Ward at Windsor Castle, including nine principal rooms and over I00 other rooms on live floors. 
20 miles 
20 km 
The restoration project has been completed six months early and $4.77 million under budget. 
Area damaged by fire: Approx. 10,800 sq. yards Duration of project: Five years Cost: $58 million Craftsmen: 1,500 Workers: 5,000 Rooms: 109 
Points of interest: 300 oak trees were used for the ceiling in St. George's Hall 
Archaeological finds: 

115 foot deep medieval well; fragments of 17th-century murals and 14th-century timbers Source: The Royal Collection Trust. Gardiner& Theobald 
By MARY ZAKAS 
News Writer 
The snow last weekend did not get in the way of urban anthropology professors Kenneth Moore and Erwin Press' 14th annual group trip to Chicago. 
Moore and Press, the self­proclaimed "click and clack of Chicago tours," lead a group of students each year to the Windy City in order to expose students to parts of the area that they would not normally see. 
''It was a great opportunity for students to get an overview of the city and to visit the vari­ous ethnic neighborhoods," Notre Dame senior Kammy Bas~aly said. "It was a lot of fun. 
The visit to Chicago also enables students to determine "what makes a city a city," according to Moore. 
During the bus ride from South Bend, Moore and Press discussed the fundamental aspects of urban anthropology, applying these principles to Chicago specifically. About 44 students and professors partic­ipated in the trip. 
Upon arrival in the city, the 
students got ·a taste of part of 
Chicago's ethnic diversity. 
They visited Mexican, Irish, 
African, German, Hindu, 
Chinese, and Swedish­
American neighborhoods, as 
well as the Maxwell St. open 
air market. Lunch and dinner 
stops were made in Chinatown 
and at Reza's Persian 
Restaurant. 
The group learned about 
Chicago's architectural history 
as wen, viewing such cites as 
Frank Lloyd Wright's Robe 
House and the many skyscrap­
ers alo11g The Loop. Other 
interest~ng stops such as the 
Michigan Ave. stores and Hyde 
Park were also explored. 
The tour catered especially 
to those majoring in anthro­
pology, but was open for any 
Notre Dame student to attend. 
"It would be a real misfor­
tune for a student to spend 
four years at Notre, Dame 
without getting to kt1?\'V 
Chicago.'' Moore said. '1;·;:,,,, · ·· "With this trip, students see the varieties oflife in this city," Moore stated. "Most want to · go back<rn tl1eir own." •..•. 
Moot(fnoted that.the stil• 
dents love the trip every year 
and that they applaud the pro­
fessors after the journey. 
Associated Press 
WINDSOR, England 
Every cloud has a sil­ver lining, they say ­perhaps even the clouds of fire and smoke that gutted parts of the castle that gave the British royal family its name. On Monday, five years and $63 million {37 million pounds) later, the reno­vation of Windsor Castle was declared complete and the damaged rooms pronounced more glit­tering and gilded that ever. 
And more of them are being opened to the pub­lic than before the blaze. 
All of it comes just in time for the 50th wed­ding anniversary of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, who have invited royalty from all over Europe to a golden jubilee dinner Thursday night in the renovated St. George's Hall at Windsor, the queen's favorite weekend home. 
"The queen ... said it was marvelous, and that she was absolutely delighted," said Michael Peat, keeper of the Privy Purse, recounting a 
party the queen threw 


e. 
Please join us for an information session 
Thursday, November 20 Alumni Senior Club 7:00-8:30 pm Sponsored by Notre Dame Career & Placement 
MEDIA. .. It is what takes ideas from the conceptual and production stage, to our living rooms, malls, bars, and the broad outdoors. At LEO BURNETT, we make MEDIA our business. Because what is an idea if it hasn't anyplcace to go? 
I 
Windsor," said .John Tiltman, director of property services for the royal family. "''d be flabbergasted if anyone involved made a profit." 
Moreover, the royal handlers raised 70 percent of the money from fees paid by the public to visit the monarch's downtown home at Buckingham Palace. The remaining 30 percent came from government coffers, said Dickie Arbiter, director of media affairs for the Royal Collection Trust, which man-the Nov. 20, 1992. fire. 

Renovators took advantage of the work to shift the location of the private chapel, where the fire started, and to redesign the 180-foot-long St. George's Hall, using freshly cut English oak to heighten the pitch of the 19th-century ceil­ing and create the illusion of a gothic banquet hall. in the spirit of the 1,000-year-old royal home. 
"The restored rooms are the jewel in the crown," said 

BY jEss BoRGESON, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 ........ t3o PM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 .......... t30 PM FRIDAY, Nov. 21. ................ 7:30PM SATURDAY, Nov. 22 ........... t30 PM SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30 PM 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL 
RESERVED SEATS $8 • SENIORS $7 • ALL STUDENTS $6 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAfORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MAsTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 6JI-8128 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 18, 1997 
"In becoming white, the through discriminatory, discrimination to the mind­Irish ceased to be green," either implicitly of explicit­set of rioters in 1834
Ignatiev 
CLC
Ignatiev said. ly, laws in the past have Philadelphia: that it is continued from page 1 Ignatiev went on to a been passed down in some wrong to have blacks work­
<:onUnued frJ~ page 1 
broader challenge of the form to the current genera­ing while whites arc unem­
Saxon Protestant nation to a "white" nation. 
This process of assimila­tion required the Irish to overcome the prejudice of.. those nativists who saw America as a Protestant country. An important step in this process was a dis­tancing of the Irish from the Negroes and thus earn the right to be viewed as white, Ignatiev said. 
Ignatiev referred to 1830s-40s America as a "turbulent republic" because of the fit of race riots which swept the coun­try. So bad was this epi­demic of violence that Abraham Lincoln then wrote, "accounts of out­rages committed by mobs become the everyday news of the times." 
A turning point in the "whitening" of the Irish came when they were per­mitted to join police forces in cities such as New York. At this point, the Irish were armed to carry out their agenda, according to Ignatiev. 
They were elevated to the status of members of the white race as the country became a "white republic." This process was not limit­ed to Irish immigrants, they were merely the first ethnic group to experience it. 
Ignatiev was quick to point out that he did not consider this an Irish suc­cess story. Rather, it was a failure which condemned many to wage-servitude and the abandonment of dreams and substituted racial loyal­ty for rational politics. 
concept of "race." tion. 
"Race is a biological fic­The Federal Housing tion. No biologist has found Commission was another an acceptable definition for guilty agency in Ignatiev's race," he stated. view. While white America 
Ignatiev pointed out the was granted loans for mod­broad and blended range of est homes and went from a physical traits in the crowd nation of renters to a nation to emphasize this point and of homeowners, loans were quoted Langston Hughes, denied in many black neigh­"the colors of Harlem range borhoods. And as Ignatiev from cream to plum but pointed out, "black neigh-they are borhoods all labeled have most­
ly blackblack [in ' 

America]." IN BECOMING WHITE, THE people liv­Ignatiev IRISH CEASED TO BE ing in them," so
cited an GREEN.' 
estimate this de that the facto dis­average crimina­
NOEL [GNATJEV 

w h i t e tion based 
AUTHOR, HISTORIAN

American on color 
is 6 per­cent black. 
"Race is a social fact," Ignatiev stat­ed. 
According to Ignatiev, the only acceptable definition for the social condition "white" is the group of peo­ple who receive the social privileges of whites. 
While color is no longer found in any legal language as a basis for discrimina­tion, Ignatiev said that "if all conscious prejudice were eliminated, the accumulat­ed benefit of being white would still continue to maintain race as a social status." 
According to Ignatiev, the so-called "wealth gap" between whites and blacks, a manifestation of this dif­ference in social status, has been maintained because assets gained by whites was main­
tained. 
"To be white in this country is to be born biking with the wind at your back, not in your face," he said. 
"If whiteness is a social construct, it can be abol­ished," Ignatiev challenged. As whiteness is maintained by institutions, Ignatiev called on those present to "interrupt the functioning of these institutions and chal­lenge these institutions in the most creative and ener­getic ways we can think of." 
When Ignatiev was asked for his view on the decon­struction of affirmative action. he responded that the entire system of this country has been based on "invisible affirmative action for whites." 
lie compared current complaints of reverse racial ployed. 
But instead of rioting, according to Ignatiev, these people seek to cancel out the minimum gains that blacks have won by elimi­nating affirmative action. 
Ignatiev cautioned the American public, "this is not the first time a black middle class has made a brief appearance before being stamped out." He rec­ommended that affirmative action not be dropped until "invisible white affirmative action" is eliminated. 
When asked if he could name a society where social constructs such as "white" had been abolished, he could not. 
Hather, he stated "I don't have an example of any society on this planet that is the one I want to live in." He added that he did not think such a society was compatible with capitalism. 
Ignatiev lamented the condition of individuals who are blinded by the system, saying that "many of the slaves think they are mas­ters because they are white ... [they] eat prickly pear and think it is roast beef." 
lgnatiev added that these people have traded their dignity and dreams for whiteness. In lgnaticv's opinion, the problem is sys­tematic and must be chal­lenged at every point. 
The lecture was part of the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels series, Alternative American Geographies of Hac~>. Ethnicity, and Nation. 

Capt. RusselLPickett, the liaison to the 
group. They are awaiting vice president 
for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara's 
reports on campus alcohol use which 
have yei to make it through the Academic 
cit· 
ey WI work on a . sible 

mandatory program that will give a basic 
level of alcohol education to all students. 
• The diversity committee will "try to focus on racial issues to do as much as possible to arrive at some kind of racial reconciliation ()U campus," according to Zahm senator Brandon Williams. 
He mentioned the group's work on a tentative four~point plan that includes expansion of interracial retreats, an aug­mented freshman orientation diversity program, a hl.iddy program pairing inter­l':l!.<;ialstudentsJor)casual discussion, and contact and ongoi'ng diversity W()rkshops 
•in 
dorms. 

• 
The academics committee reported back on the use of Stepan Center as a venue for academic testing. After speak· ing to registrar Harold Pace, Father {)avid Scheidler. explained possibilities for changes froin-..the building due to noise levels during examinations. ·~. 


"He [Pace] said that they use Stepan when you have a large number of stu­dents who need to have access to a pro­fessor during the course of an exam," he said. "He said that individual sections can meet in smaller venues. He will start encouraging professors to let them know when they can split classes and use smaller venues." 
The committee will report on the options for a students' academic bill of rights at the next CLC meeting on Dec. 1. 
• Szabo spoke for the the community life committee, which went over the Student Senate resolution supporting the installation of laundry facilities in the remaining men's dorms without them. The senate is researching the cost of installing the machines on years when the specific dorms arc not up for renova­tion. 

$9 ND, SMC, HCCStepan Center @8pm $12  --­==-­• ® -n ~ () ~ ~ c =s­(jl (j) c --.-­_____) ill ~ \jlw ct=s ["'-.) & ~CP aa __:-,.> . . c ---­a (_)J()s::J_ . .-­()ct ()J a. \::::::5a ~ -­~ \::::::5c ~ ~  

~~-------~~--~~ 

Tuesday, November 18, 1997 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Federal iudge upholdsprimary e1ectwn system 
SACHAMENTO, Calif 
In a dPI'nat for California's political parties, a fPdPraljudge today upheld the open prima­ry elPrtion system adopted by the state's vot­Prs last year. "Proposition IIJ8 is a non-dis­criminatory mPasurr that was adopted by a clear majority of voters, with a convincing margin from both major parties, and which advances interests that arc uniquely those of tlw state and its plcctorate as opposed to the parties," U.S. District Judge David Levi wrote. "TiwsP interPsts outweigh the also substan­tial intPrPst that tlw political parti!~s have in controlling who votes in the primary." Proposition 198. approved by voters in the March 1<J<J(> primary, requin~s all candidates to app!~ar on tlw same primary ballot regard­less of party. If they wish, voters can then votP. for example, for a Democrat for gover­nor. a H!1publican for senator and a minor party candidate for Congress. The top vote­gdtPrs in each party tlwn appear on the November genrral election ballot. Supporters argued that dropping the old party-by-party primary would increase voter turnout. give votPrs mon~ choices. increase competition among candidates and result in the nomina­tion of more moderates. But opponents, including the stain's Hepublican and Democratic partiPs, said the measure was unconstitutional and could result in members of one party deciding the nominee of another party. 
Catholic bishops push American unity 
VATICAN CITY 
Homan Catholic lradnrs from throughout tlw W!•stern I IPmisphere tackled a huge task Monday: focusing on what unites -not dividPs -them. Bishops and cardinals from North. Central and South America and the Cariblwan insistPd they were up to it. "We can l!'arn so much from each other," Cardinal Hoger M. Mahony of Los Angeles said as rwarly 500 churchmen began a month-long synod of bishops, a special meet­ing rallPd to discuss America. Mahony praisPd l'opn John Paul II for this "new vision" of a unitPd America. for "seeing us as a unifi('(l group." liP called it a "great vision of a gn~at pope." Thn bishops say a plethora of common problems confront the church from tlw Arrtk to Argentina. But the differ­encPs lwtween north and south are vast. North America is rich. the south is not. The north's Christian roots are predominantly ProtPstant, tlw south's are Catholic. The north is preoccupied with issues such as the roll' of women in the church. The south is grappling with poverty and with intense com­pPtition from Protestant groups, especially the liwliPr evangPlieal sects. 

946.20 Composite t 17.85 
Volume: +125.74 575,950,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
,;OHi_, HAN "" • l'H •To J..:u./1 ·d•. OOO 44.44 RANI\JN fl.ll'rnMnT I VE }:AVE 44.12 +0. 938 3.06 POINT \'IE:ST c;..p PCWI< ]7. so +0 .998 J.44 Wfi;:..;..-.:r:D :::;:".J."'.'£CE ESVS 33.33 ..0.875 J. 50 UN1P.lWAL i'ECH~wr UTCIW 31.25 to0.625 2.62 
Bl I;<;EST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
INTL PRI:::CIOUS IPM<'F 41. A6 -2.25 3.125 MEADOWBROOK MBRJ\ 30.00 -0.75 1. 75 PC4ll INC-UTS PCFRU 25.00 -1.00 3.00 [FSINTL INC MNYCW 19.05 -0.50 2.13 ALL t:ITY INS ALCI 18.75 -1.50 6. 50 




Islamic militants attack tourists 

AssociATED PRESS 
LUXOH. Egypt 
Gunmen opened fire on tourists outside a 3,400-year­old temple in southern Egypt today, and then battled police in a three-hour fire­fight. At least 70 people, inducting 60 foreigners, were killed in the deadliest attack on tourists in Egypt. 
The assailants, who the government and police say were Islamic militants, burst into the courtyard of the 1-Iatshepsut Temple in a desert outside Luxor and fired a hail of bullets at dozens of tourists who had just gotten off a bus, police said. 
Local police said that as the panic-stricken tourists ran or fell to the groufld, police guarding the site returned fire. Six attackers and two policemen were killed, they said. Authorities later rounded up a large number of suspects. 
The attackers tried to hijack the bus to flee, but 
were fired on by police. Among the dead, witnesses and police sources said, were three elderly French tourists who stayed on the bus rather than go into the temple. 
The Interior Ministry, how­ever, said one assailant was killed on the scene and five fled in the bus. Those five were chased by police into nearby hills, and were killed, a statement said. The assailants were carrying six machine guns, two handguns and hand-made explosives, it said. 
The Information Ministry put the overall death toll at 70 -60 foreigners and 10 Egyptians, the latter group including the six assailants, two policemen and two civil­ians. 
The updated casualty fig­ures were released followed a meeting with President J-Iosni Mubarak, members of his Cabinet and security offi­cials. 
While the government pro­vided no breakdown by nationality, the Interior 

Ministry earlier said Swiss, 
German  and  Japanese  
tourists  were among the  
dead.  

Swiss Foreign Ministry spokesman Franz Egle said 20 Swiss tourists were miss­ing and presumed dead in the Luxor attack. The Swiss government set up a tele­phone hotline for people worried about their relatives. 
The Egyptian Interior Ministry said 25 people were wounded, including 16 for­eigners. Eight of the injured were in serious condition at a Cairo hospital. Four others were treated and dis­charged, the ministry said. 
State-run Cairo TV referred to the attackers as "terrorist elements," a phrase usually reserved for Islamic militants seeking to oust Mubarak's secular gov­ernment and replace it with strict Muslim rule. To that end, the militants have tar­geted the country's lucrative tourism industry, launching deadly attacks, mainly in southern Egypt. Some 1,100 people have been killed since the insurgency began in 1992. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for today's violence. 
Militants who have staged previous attacks have sought the imposition of Islamic law, including a ban on alco­hol, the veiling of women and a tax on religious minorities. The militants consider it their religious duty to fight a government that does not impose such law, called Sharia. 
The violence today began just as the tour group was about to enter the three­story sandstone temple, built on an elevated area approached by a wide flight of steps, said Mohammed Nasser, an archaeologist in Luxor, quoting witnesses. 
The tourists panicked and tried to hide behind pillars, he said. After police arrived, the attackers tried to com­mandeer the bus, which police then sprayed with gunfire. 

U.S. considers giving more aid to Iraq 
orders that it destroy its we&pons. of official told the news agency. 
ASSO(]ATED PRESS mass<destruetion. Butthe United Eyen as tht! Clinton administration Nations pulled. the inspectors out last floated the idea, officials emphasized ISLAMABAD. Pakistan week, after Iraq refused to rescind an they weren't talking about bargain­The United States suggested order expelling Americans on the ing. At the Pentagon, Defense Monday that U.N.-approved humani­Secretary William Cohen said of
teams; ..·•.. . . . • 

tarian aid for Iraq might be increased T})eU.$. proposal to·inc;rease aid.ln Saddam, "There should be no such if President Saddam Hussein permits exchange for· a return of the inspec· trading for any carrots in order to get the return of U.S. weapons inspectors. tors was described by an official his compliance. We are not seeking An Iraqi official quickly branded the accompanying Secretary of State any deal in order to insist that he proposal a:"no:..starter." Madeleine Albright in Pakistan· as "a comply with his obligations." 
Though still in the exploratory little carrot'' for Saddam, providing Iraq has been the target of a U.N. phase, the initiative suggested a fresh an incentive for him to end the stand­economic embargo since 1990, when American effort to resolve the three­off and help his people at the same a loophole was created three years week impasse with Iraq without the time. ·... agounder which Iraq is permitted to use of force. The British and French have been sell $2 billion worth of oil every six 
At the same time, President Clinton consulted, said the official, who months. emphasized that diplomatic efforts to briefed reporters on condition he not Under a carefully monitored pro­return the inspectors to Iraq "must be be identified. The Press Association, a gram, the revenues are used to pro­backed by our "strong military capa· British news agency, said the initia­vide food and medicine to the Iraqi bility."' tive clarifies what Iraq has to do to people. 
"ft is essential that those inspectors get the sanctions lifted. The U.S. official said the $2 billion go back to work," he said in Wichita, "We want to show that there is light ceiling could be increased as part of Kan. "The safety of the children of the at the end of the tunnel and that if the proposed sweetener for Iraq. Also, world depends upon it." they do a rangeof specific things then he said the definition of humanitarian 
U.N. teams of inspectors had been the Security Council can start to look aid could be expanded to include monitoring Iraqi compliance with at lifting sanctions," a Foreign Office items beyond food and medicine. 
-~ 
----~ ----------­

-------~-~-­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 18, 1997 



+ Campus Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Tuesday, November 18,6:30 pm 
Pilgritnage for Peace 
(People for Equality, Action, Community and Education) 
"Prayer makes your heart bigger ... " -Mother Theresa Come light a candle at the Grotto and the pilgrimage will conclude with a prayer service at the Basilica. 
Tuesday, November 18,7:00 pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 

Catnpus (Interfaith)Bible Study 
Come and share insights on Mark's Gospel, chapters 9 and 10. Bring your own Bible. If you need one it will be provided. A period of fellowship will follow the regular meeting. ALL students are invited and welcomed. 
Sunday, November 23 from 3:30 to 6:00PM, Center for Social Concerns 

First Year Series: for Hispanic Freshtnen 
This is the first event of a series. It will be an evening to relax, reflect, and eat some great food! All Freshmen are invited to attend. The team members are looking forward to seeing you there!!! Nos vemos! 
Wednesday, November 19,7:00 pm, Stanford-Keenan Chapel 

Song, Prayer & Fello-wship 
Let us continue to journey in faith. This is an opportunity to gather as a community of faith to share and to pray. We will also be presenting opportunities to participate in smaller faith sharing groups. Everyone welcome! Especially the NDE community and the participants of NDE #48. 
Welcotne to our gay and lesbian students 
Campus Ministry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those discerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conver­sation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett@ 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confidential. 
Tuesday, November 18, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS page 7 
• WHLFARE REFORMS 


Welfare overhaul applauded 


polic@ 
Associated Press leaving government assistance eral, wants the seat occupied 
Associated Press 
By most accounts, 'v'"'"''""'· "Moe" Pergament was a mannered college student. · polite that he: addressed a note to police apologizing for what he was about, to do, So . polite he wrote a stackof goodbye cards to his loved 
ones. 
On Friday night, Pergament; depressed over a reported $6,000 in gambling debts, got himself shot to death b police on Long Isltmd pointing what turned out be a toy gun at them, police said. 
Police call it "suicide cop" -and they've seen before. 
''I'm sorry to get you involved," the 19-year­Pergament had wriW:m letter addressed in ad "the officer who shot me! · 
"I just needed to wrote.Neighbors and said the Nassau·. College student was . polite, well-liked and ingly carefree. 
Pergament bought a.$ 
silver-colored toy ,..,,,..,.,ar the day of his death. went to a card home in bought nin that he 
and friends. 
"He looked ly Ramirez, a store. 
According .;to 
WICHITA, Kan. 
From behind red-and-blue safety glasses, President Clinton marveled Monday as former wel­fare recipi­ents made airplane parts in a hiring and training pro­gram that 2,500 com­panies have pledged to copy. 
"When we get 10,000, we'll really be talking turkey," Clinton told workers at the Cessna Aircraft Co. job center. He also announced new regula­tions giving state and local offi­cials greater flexibility in using federal money to put welfare recipients to work. 
"The best social program ever provided is a job," the president said. 
His comments came on the final day of a four-day tour dominated by Democratic Party fund raising and distractions over the standoff with Iraq. From Wichita, Clinton was headed to St. Louis for a $400,000 reception and dinner benefiting Missouri's Jay Nixon and other Senate candidates. 
Meanwhile, White House offi­cials released new data show­ing that welfare caseloads dropped by 236,000 in July, the most recent month for which statistics are available, and by nearly 2 million in the 11 months since Clinton signed welfare overhaul legislation. 
At Cessna, some 250 people have already been trained at company expense and put to work at an average wage of $12 an hour. 

Since the Clinton administra­tion and corporate community launched their "Welfare to Work Partnership" in May, more than 2,500 companies have pledged to similarly hire and train workers off the wel­fare rolls. 
That figure, which tops the partnership's original goal of 1,000 businesses, includes 24 of America's 100 biggest com­panies in what Clinton said "has to be an American cru­sade." 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce also announced that its 3,000 local chapters will urge corporate members to hire people on welfare. 
After the 1996 welfare over­haul limited the time families can spend on public assistance, Clinton pushed the private sec­tor to pitch in -with some state and federal dollars -and help give welfare recipients the skills needed for landing jobs once their welfare checks stop. 
"We changed the role of gov­ernment, but that's only the first step. We also have to change the role of the private sector," he said Monday. 
In St. Louis, the president had his eye on the 1998 congres­sional races and their prospects for cutting the Republicans' 55­45 majority in the Senate. He cast the state race as a referen­dum on the GOP-controlled Senate, complaining that it has fought him on gun control and environmental protections. Nixon, Missouri's attorney gen-by Sen. Christopher S. Bond ­one of five Senate Republicans whom Democrats are targeting as extremely vulnerable. 

"It's a)so a very important election for the United States," Clinton told donors. 
The dinner's expected $400,000 pot would be split between Nixon's campaign and the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. 
The fund-raiser, Clinton's sixth in four days, was to be followed Tuesday with another two benefits for the Democratic National Committee. The DNC has been relying heavily on the president tobe the star attrac­tion at lunches, dinners and receptions with donors to help erase a $14.2 million debt. 
The three-hour Kansas stop -plus a Saturday morning wetlands tour in California ­served to defray Clinton's travel costs for the DNC and DSCC. Since the government pays for all but Clinton's "political" travel, the two party groups have to pay a percentage of total trip costs based on how much time Clinton spent at their political events. 
At the same time that the administration's new welfare rules gave states greater lee­way in using federal dollars, Clinton also announced penal­ties for states that fail to meet federal requirements for putting aid recipients to work. 
States could be levied fines of up to 5 percent of their welfare block grants if they fall short of the mandate -adults in 25 percent of all welfare families -and are not trying to correct the violation, Clinton said. 
The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
John Finnisl D.Phil. 
Prof Finnis has been Biolchini Professor ofLaw at Notre Dame since 1995, and is also Professor of Law and Legal Philosophy at the University of Oxford, where he has taught law and philosophy since 1967. He was one ofthe first two lay members ofthe International Theological Commission, and has worked extensively on the foundations of ethics, and on a wide variety of life issues. 
His books include Natural Law and Natural Rights (1980, 9th printing 1997), Fundamentals ofEthics (1983), Nuclear Deterrence, Morality and Realism (1987), Moral Absolutes (1991), and Aquinas: Moral, Political, and Legal Theory (May 1998). 
Wednesday, November 19 Hesburgh Library Lounge • 8:00p.m. 
the Strake Foundation 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFiCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ....................... Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ..................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................... Mike Day Production Manager. ..... Mark DeBoy Accent Edi[Or ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager.... . .... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe amhors, and nor neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Phoro  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accenc/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• So, WHirr's MY POINT? 
Iraq and the Hypocrisy of American Internationalism 
Contrary to popular opinion, the United States is NOT the world's moral guide and the protector of democracy. 
I mention this only because I have been hearing a lot of this "high moral sentiment" going around for the past week or so, and I am sick of it. 
In the United States' most recent con­frontation with Iraq, this has been one 
Nakasha Ahmad 
of the reasons given for our persistence in dealing with the issue. The United States has the duty to be one of the world's "policemen"; the U.S. needs to make sure Saddam Hussein is not mak­ing or using destructive chemical or nuclear weapons; we need to stop dicta­tors like Hussein from gaining power; Iraq should have a democratic regime and Hussein has got to go for it to achieve one; sanctions and military force are necessary to produce this objective; if the U.S. stays out of the bat­tle, it will be saying that it is not militar­ily strong anymore -that staying out of the conflict would be showing signs of weakness. 
Enough. 
All of these reasons, and more, have been stated in explaining our persistent military involvement with Iraq. Most of the reasons are smoke screens. This war isn't about punishing aggression and making the world safe. It's a bit less noble than that. 
The most recent confrontation with Iraq is Iraq's fault. I'm not denying that. What bothers me is the complete lack of options other than force that ate being considered in Washington. Yes, Iraq did violate the U.N. when it ordered American weapons inspectors out of Iraq-however, there have been worse transgressions of U.N. law by other countries that the U.S. has ignored. 
First of all, if the U.S. was (and, as it claims, has always been) so concerned about aggression in other countries, then there are a host of other countries it should be fighting with right now. If fighting oppression was the U.S.'s mis­sion, then China would not have Most Favored Nation trading status in spite of its human rights record; then the U.S. should have gotten rid of Uganda's for­mer dictator Idi Amin through force; then the U.S. would not be in bed with such blatantly anti-democratic regimes as Saudi Arabia, where obvious human rights abuses go on every day, such as executions of those who convert from the official state religion of Islam. If that isn't an example of a regime that is bla­tantly oppressive, what is? If the U.S. was really concerned with the people of Iraq and the Kurds, then it should be imposing much harsher policies on Turkey, a far worse perpetrator of crimes against the Kurds. 
Of course, critics will answer, none of those countries had nuclear bombs and then turned away U.N. inspectors. 
First, Iraq turned away only U.S. inspectors, not inspectors from other countries. Secondly, although everyone seems to be so concerned with safety, let's not forget that for the better part of the Cold War, the Soviet Union had far more nuclear weapons than Iraq did, and did not use them, even during Stalin's oppressive regime. Moreover, they weren't cooperative enough to let us come in and inspect their weapons. 
Politically speaking, although it is not ideal to have the U.S. inspectors thrown out, it is far better to have a few inspec­tors rather than none. 
Ethically speaking, the U.S. is being hypocritical by saying that it is okay for it to have nuclear weapons, but it's not all right for its enemies to have bombs. Why do we assume that we are any more responsible than the rest of the world? If anything, we might be less responsible. We're the only country that actually has used the bomb-twice. 
Moreover, we Americans have always been champions of the sovereignty of nations. Iraq is a sovereign nation, not a puppet of the rest of the world. If we don't want anyone to regulate our sov­ereignty, then we shouldn't regulate others. If we want to take the moral high ground and say that we are simply challenging a dictatorship, then we should be against ALL dictatorships, not just selective ones. 
Simply considering the option of get­ting involved once again in a military confrontation with Iraq in a political manner, it seems to be a big mistake. Sanctions and military force have not worked in the past-if anything, they seem to have only angered Hussein even more. Moreover, there is strong anti­American sentiment in the Arab world. Pursuing military action is not goin!§ to make us popular -if anything, we just may alienate most of the other Arab countries. 
T
his confrontation isn't about noble principles; it's about poli­tics, which is not a good reason to kill people. 
If we look at this conflict ethically, we find that it is not worth the possibility of losing hundreds of American lives over a little tiff in the Middle East, just to prove that hey, we're still a military power! 
War is not a game. It is a bloody mess that can ruin people's lives. It should not be used for purposes of prestige. Prestige is not worth human lives. 
More importantly, however, the U.S. professes concern for the Iraqi people. How does it show its concern? By having sanctions cut food and medicine to those people? By bombing and killing those civilians that it supposedly feels so ,;orry for? Just because American lives aren't being lost does NOT mean that it is okay to butcher or starve thousands of Iraqi civilians. Hussein is not Hitler. The best way to handle this conflict would be to let the other U.N. inspectors do their jobs, drop sanctions, and try to cultivate friendlier relations with Iraq. And don't say this is immoral-we're doing it with China and Saudi Arabia, aren't we? 

I know there are some who will call me a traitor for not supporting the U.S.'S" decisions. Others might call me patriot­
ic. However, being patriotic doesn't call for blindly supporting your govern­ment's decisions. It calls for thinking about them rationally, and then trying to stop your country when you feel that it is doing something wrong. If a loved one of yours-a father, sister, spouse­considered doing something morally wrong, like murder, would you say, "Hey, hey, hey, go for it! I support you all the way because I love you!" Call me crazy, but I don't think that would be your first reaction. Most normal people would probably try to stop their loved one from doing it. 
A country and its citizens have the same type of relationship. Pursuing this confrontation is wrong and hypocritical. This confrontation isn't about noble principles; it's about politics, which is not a good reason to kill people. Why should I support my country when it is doing something wrong? It is because I love it that I want it to do the right thing. I want to be proud of the United States, not ashamed of it. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a sophomore majoring in English literature and politi­cal science at Saint Mary's. You can send her e-mail at ahma3495@saint­marys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• DOOi\!ESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
He>; JUSTRN&.~ UH,.. 
600£?. I'l1::'

86RN. l!t3'77l:R. f/Otu MONt3Y. 
NeV5R. HAl?

ABOtiT YOU? 
I A F£3&1, FOR.

/ 7HAT~R 
STUFF. 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Being powerful is like 
being a lady; if you have to tell people you are, you aren't." 
-Margaret Thatcher 


~--------------.::---...;:: ~~---~-~----­
VIEWPOINT

Tuesday, November 18, 1997 page 9 
· Point 
Clinton Presidency A Success 

We've heard the rhetoric before: the Clinton administration reeks of moral corruption, political inepti­tude, and failure. Ask any Clinton critic for examples, and he or she will gladly expound on various top­ics like health care and fast-track. 
Obviously, Clinton has suffered disappointing sr,tbacks. But that dor,sn't mean that his presidency is a failurP. It would be unfair to judge him with the myopic, sound-byte style that has found its way into the nation's psyche. If one looks beyond 
Marisa Fernandez 
the next two days, two months, and even two years, it is possible to con­sider certain initiatives and their long-torm impact (both here and abroad) as successful. 
Consider the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Its opponents allege that American workers have been displaced and downsized, despite the fact that the growth in U.S. exports supports 2.3 million U.S. jobs and that unem­ployment is at a 23-year low. Additionally, nearly one-third of all 
U.S. global trade occurs between Canada (the number one trading partner) and Mexico (poised to overtake Japan as number two). This means that U.S. consumers, who, incidentally, make up only five percent of the world's population, have the opportunity to purchase goods at competitive prices and to support the American workers who produce them. 
Now, let's think about the other 95 percent of the world's popula­tion. It's safe to assume that some of them brush with Crest, eat at McDonald's, and drive Ford Escorts. But they don't all look alike, speak alike, or act alike. That's why American companies, such as McDonald's, go to such great lengths to staff their U.S. offices with employees who both understand and embrace this mind­set of cultural diversity. 
Clinton also recognizes the impor­tance of this issue and its impact on America's economic future. In June, he asked all Americans to "join me in thinking about and talking about how America can use our great diversity of race and ethnicity as a strength, to get past our divisions and closer to what unites us, so that we can become the world's greatest multiracial, multiethnic democracy in the 21st century." 
Clinton plans to make this vision a reality through several vehicles, most notably education. America Reads, for example, is a program designed to get all children to read independeotly by the third grade, 
Clinton An Embarrassment 
The Clinton era began in January of 1993 with bold, bombastic expectations of "the most ethical administration in history," a "middle class tax cut," and "health care reform." 
By the time of the Republican takeover of Congress, all of these bold initiatives had taken a back seat. After campaigning on these quasi-Republican policy mantra, Clinton, upon being elected, immediately reversed himself, and none of these promises came into being. Clinton's promise of a middle class tax cut was a joke. After saying that it was "central" to his economic plan, he denied that it was even an impor­tant issue and abandoned his promise following the inauguration. His Marxist "Health Care Reform" package went down in flames after it was revealed that it would have entailed nationalizing 14 percent of the economy. And his promise of an "ethical" admin­istration can only be regarded as a prevarication of monumental proportions after witnessing the seedy cast of characters with whom he keeps company. 

I 
Such persons as Jim McDougal, Jorge Cabrera, and 
Webster Hubbel all are or have spent time in federal 
prison as a result of felony convictions. 
In all senses of the word, the Clinton administration has been an unprecedented failure both politically and ideologically. 
It is clear today that Clinton's sociopathic narcis­sism is responsible for the economic and ideological bankruptcy of the Democratic Party. Spending and illegal fund raising during the 1996 campaign have turned into a nightmare for Democrats, since the legal and political fallout from these examples of gra­tuitous disregard for the law have cost millions of dol­lars in party funds. Clinton's blind ambitions for power and influence have sent his party careening into the depths of financial ruin to no discernable ide­ological end. Not only is the party fiscally devastated, but it is now painfully clear that it has been irrevoca­bly fractured by Clinton's flexible and sometimes con­tradictory political convictions. Clinton has shown that he is willing to sacrifice any core convictions he might have at the moment for political gain, but for what end? 
Since Clinton has come into the White House, the very firmament upon which the Democratic Party stood has been compromised and negotiated to the point of utter meaninglessness. Feminists, gays, abor­tionists, environmentalists, and labor have thus far stood with Clinton, having nowhere else to go. In the aftermath of the fast-track debate, though, it is clear that the Democrat's leftist core constituencies, indeed the whole of Clinton's liberal base, is ready to desert him. It was fascinating to see Democrats on the floor 
enabling them to enjoy greater suc­
cess in subsequent years. More 
funding for Pel! Grants, work-study 
programs, and community colleges 
has been approved to facilitate 
access to higher education. In addi­
tion, he has proposed tax breaks for 
families whose children are pursu­
ing two-and four-year college edu­
cations. 
Granted, there is no measure we can use right now to judge whether these programs will be successful or not, but it's the foundation that .he's building which will ultimately ensure that America remains a 
major player on the world stage. 
Finally, it's important to note that 
history, not MTV-style analyses, will 
be the ultimate judge of whether 
the Clinton years were a success or 
failure. 
If you had asked Americans in the 
late 1950s to evaluate Truman's 
years in office, you probably would 
have gotten the same vehement 
reaction that Clinton's detractors 
like to give. Take a long-term view, 
and you'll see success come up on 
the horizon. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Counterpoint 
of the House of Representatives last week castigating the president with more fervor than even the most conserv­ative of Republicans. Richard Gephardt, the minority leader, along with 80 percent of the House Democrats deserted the president, proving that liberals will only tolerate Clinton's strides to the right for so long. This split in the Democratic Party among hard core liberals and corrupt power-seekers like Clinton have ruined the credibility and fiscal integrity of the Democratic Party. 
Beyond issues of ideology, the Democrats have experi­enced a devastation at the ballot box the magnitude of which has been rarely witnessed in the annals of American history. Clinton's history of lies, distortion, adultery, illegal drug use, draft-dodging, association 
Sean Vinck 
with known felons, and perhaps most troubling of all, his alleged sexual exploitation of Arkansas women like Paula Jones and Sally Perdue have earned him a mys­tique of incredulity with the American people. While a majority of people may "approve" of Clinton's work thus far as president, it is clear that they neither trust nor really like him. For example, the recent off-year elec­tions, which resulted in a clean sweep for the major Republican candidates, served as a testament to America's relationship with Bill Clinton. After campaign­ing for the four losing Democratic candidates in Virginia, New Jersey, Staten Island, and New York City, Clinton then took credit for the success of the Republicans, attributing it to his own economic policies. Clinton's political machinations resulted in the Republicans gaining and maintaining control of both houses of Congress in two successive elections. In fact, Clinton's presidency is directly responsible for the most significant political realignment of the 20th century, facilitating the South's morphing into the heartland of the Republican Party. 
Clinton is said to now be concerned about his "role" in history. From his abysmal record of deceit and corrup­tion, it would be charitable to conclude that history will record him as nothing more than a mistake and an opportunist who proved to be an embarrassment to his political party and to his country. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 10 Tuesday, November 18, 1997
ACCENT 


• ACCEtiT ASKS••• 
What is your favorite S hal{espearean play? 

"'A Midsummer Night's Dream.' I like the setting, lighting, costuming and act­ing." 
Betsy Buser Senior, Off-Campus 
"'The Tempest.' I am familiar with it, as opposed to most of Shakespeare's other work." 
Courtney Canadeo Freshman, Keough 


"'Hamlet.' We had to put it on in 6th grade, and of course Mel Gibson helped." 
Brittney Nystrom Senior, Off-Campus 

'"Richard the Third.' I did a research paper on it in high school." 
Ryan Yorkery Freshman, Keough 

'"Romeo and Juliet.' It has youthful love and passion:' 
Mary Beth McLaughlin Freshman, Farley 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
•


Matt Holmes and Brian McChesney portray Romeo and Juliet. 
By ANDREA JORDAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 

''The Compleat Works of Wllm Shkspr (abridged)" is more a mere play; it is a mere 36 plays condensed into a less hour-long comedy. !low in the world can that be possi 
takes the 16 comedies and combines them into one, presents "Othello" in a "Hamlet" is performed three times, then the end result is "The Compleat (abridged)." Confused? Then you are not alone, because you can trust that the m population is clueless. For now, take comfort in your ignorance, for it is bliss. For 
what'? ... See the play and become all-knowing. Next order of business. What person is glutton for punishment enough to take on hours? Answer: Mark Seamon, a Notre Dame senior with 
a full course load. Yes, , who is already trapped in the abyss of homework and sleep deprivation is the directd another fact to add to the useless random fact file is that Seamon has the opportunity q recent history to direct a mainstage play. (No pressure, right?) 
For 36 plays the cast would have to be about what, maybe 100 people? Correction, thi~ more. They include juniors Matt Holmes, Brian McChesney, Kimberly Megna, Mick Swiney Sounds crazy? Well, it is essentially. · 
If the entire company of actors did not pull together for the final effort, then crazin together five talented and dedicated actors along with one awesome student director and the end result is the Notre Dame production of "The Compleat Works of Wllm Shksp 
According to Seamon, there is an explanation to some of this craziness and without play, but capturing its essence he articulates that "imaginations, senses of h Shakespeare and theatre will be tested and stretched. People will be both amused doubt that watching famous Shakespearean scenes be reduced to two lines is part 
Every time the show goes up, Shakespeare certainly must be rolling over in his There is no excuse why anyone should not attend this production -it is enough to wake the dead. Still undecided? Then in the words of cast member ~ 
you don't come for the quality acting, at least come for the violence and nudi Performances are Wednesday through Saturday, Nov. 19-22, at 7:30 Sunday, Nov. 23, at 2:30 p.m. All shows will be at Washington Hall, 
stage. Heserved seats are $8, senior citizens are $7 and all are $6. Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Information Desk. 

Kimberly Megna and Brian McChesney rehearse for Wednesday night. Matt Holmes at work as Rome 
Tuesday, November 18, 1997 page 11
;ACCENT 


almost 
for tomorrow night's show. 
version, and of Wllm Shkspr ty of the student clarity, guess 
plays in less than two ad correctly, someone of this production. And 
being the first student in 
again, live actors and no d senior Mia Montagna. 
would be chaos. But put of Shakespeare's plays, 
g away the plot of the 
and conceptions of appalled. There is no the fun of the show. 
ben folds five 

(out of five stars)
Whatever and Ever Amen 
F
or someone who has played drums and bass in revious bands, not to mention having played all of the nstruments on numerous Broadway productions, Ben Folds might be expected to produce a record as eclec­IC and mature as Ben Folds Five's latest release, Whatever and Ever Amen. 
Shunning the conventional has been a leitmotif for all of Folds' work. as the band has achieved notoriety for its absence of gui­tar. The sound is tilled out by Folds' piano work, the bass of Hobert Sledge, and the rhythms of Darren Jessee. For most, this lineup outside of a jazz setting would be problematic; however, Folds successfully guides his trio into uncharted waters with poignant and often brash statements. 
Recorded in Folds' house to achieve a more direct and person­al sound, Whatever and Ever Amen reflects the natural and honest qualities that one might associate with images of home. The instrumentation varies from just the trio to the trio with strings, and even the trio with a horn arrangement. 
The magic is created within the trio, however, as they com­bine intriguing harmonic textures with vocal melodies and harmonies reminiscent of Billy Joel and Elton John, sans pompous delivery. Layer the vocals on top of Folds' impressive piano work, which suggest a schizophrenic with the per­sonalities of Jerry Lee Lewis, Bruce Hornsby and George Winston, and you've got Folds in a nutshell. 
The result of the trio's work is as impressive and interesting as it might appear on paper, and it is held together by the powerful and adaptable bass work of Robert Sledge, and the jazzy and flavor­ful, yet sometimes frantically anarchic percussion of Darren Jessee. 
There are surprisingly few limits on the group's sound, as its harmonic, hook-laden textures are applicable to the grating and hilariously brash "Song For the Dumped," as well as the con­templative and melancholic ballad, "Brick." Folds' lyrical appeal is in their simplicity, his forthrightness-they avoid both the lyrical glitter and bombastic nuance that so often bog down pop music. 
Folds' honest and colorful approach is not a departure from the lyrics of his first indie release, but it has nonetheless been further developed on the new album. Folds' ability to relate a variety of emotional levels makes his lyrical performance more convincing, as the listener journeys through a vast array of emo­tions. 
On "One Angry Dwarf and 200 Solemn Faces," Folds imagines a situation that is ridiculously far-fetched yet surely embraced by many: a nerd grows up to be a millionaire and invites all of the people who made fun of him, beat him up, and told him he would be nothing over to his mansion to show them his success. 
The most personal moment, however, comes on the last 
track, "Evaporated," which features a memorable vocal and 
piano melody, but most pertinently, a reflective and somber 
soliloquy in which a character wakes up one morning and 
realizes that he has parted with everything that ever meant 
anything to him. "Evaporated" is a pensive and thoughtful 
exit that presents Folds' more introspective side in a heart­
felt performance. 

Throughout the entire disc, however, one is conscious of 
the band's sense of humor, with quips inter­
spersed between songs, and the sometimes 
antithetical nature of his serious lyrics 
mixed with lighter, often silly textures, 
and vice-versa. It is this refreshing 
variety that allows the listener to best 
relate to and trust Folds, and is perhaps 
the most realistic element of the music 
that will make Folds appeal to the mass­
es. Whatever and Ever Amen is an 
astoundingly strong and mature sopho­
more release for Ben Folds Five, and war­
rants the attention that is starting to 
surround this talented and 
burgeoning band. 
Don't miss them 
tonight at 8 
p.m. at Stepan Center. 
by Joel Cummins 
.. 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 18, 1997 

Dolphins back on top of division with win over Bills 
Associated Press 
Dan Marino threw for 234 yards and two scores and Karim Abdui-Jabbar rushed for his league-leading 11th touch­down as the Miami Dolphins regained a share of the AFC East lead with a 30-13 victory over the Buffalo Bills. 
Marino, who completed 18-of­24 passes, found tight end Troy Drayton wide open over the middle for a 30-yard touch­down and a 23-13 lead with 
5:11 to play. After Buffalo failed to a convert a 4th-and-6 from its own 24-yard line, Jabbar ran the next four plays and plunged into the end zone for a one-yard TO with 3:45 to go. 
Marino hooked up with reserve tight end Ed Perry for a three-yard score 5 1/2 minutes into the second quarter and Olinda Mare booted the second of his three field goals less than five minutes later for a 13-0 halftime lead. 
Abdul-Jabbar gained 83 yards on 26 carries and Drayton caught four passes for 62 yards as Miami (7 -4) tied the New York Jets atop the AFC East. The Dolphins visit the defend­ing AFC champion New England Patriots on Sunday. KAT 

Todd Collins started at quar­Miami Dolphins' Ed Perry squeezes by Buffalo Bills' defender Gabe Northers into the end zone, putting the Dolphins ahead 9-0 in the first half. terback for Buffalo (5-6) after 
7:19 left in third quarter, giving the 3 and Christie booted a 24-Perriman, he connected with become the first Dolphin to leadbeing benched two weeks ago. 
the Dolphins a 16-7 edge. yard field goal, cutting the Drayton, who cruised into the the NFL in rushing touchdowns. 
But he completed just 19-of-37 The Bills drove 58 yards and deficit to 16-13 early in the end zone after making the Buffalo's lone TO came on full­
passes for 152 yards with no 
took nearly 5 1/2 minutes on fourth quarter. catch without a defensive play­back Darick Holmes' one-yardtouchdowns and an intercep­their next possession before Miami held the ball for more er within 10 yards. plunge early in the third quar­tion. 
settling for a 36-yard field goal than 4 1/2 minutes on its next Thurman Thomas rushed for ter. The Bills dropped their
The Bills drove inside the 
by Steve Christie. possession but COI:nerback 43 yards on 11 carries and has second straight game despiteMiami 36-yard line five times 
Irving Spikes fumbled the Marlon Kerner picked off gained 1,563 career yards defensive end Bruce Smithbut came away with just two 
ensuing kickoff and Buffalo's Marino at the Buffalo 30. Aftnr against the Dolphins, more than sacking Marino twice. 
field goals and a touchdown. 
Steve Tasker recovered at the the Bills were unable to pick up any other player. At halftime, the Dolphins hon­
Buffalo's Antowain Smith 
Miami 16. But Collins was a first down, Marino atoned for Jabbar had gains of 11 and ored the 25th anniversary ofrushed for 41 yards on 13 car­sacked by linebacker Anthony the mistake. Following a 26-nine yards before going into the the perfect 17-0 season irr
ries but his fumble led to 
Harris on 3rd-and-goal from yard completion to Brett end zone. He is trying to 1972.
Mare's 35-yard field goal with 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SALES/MARKETING  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Would you like a tossed salad  
NOTICES  Found-Set of keys in DeBartolo. Call Kim at 4-4376.  Excellent opportunity. Part-time per­son needed. We will work around  TICKETS  FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378  today??????  
your schedule. Great income. Fax  EVENING #: 288-2726  colleen,  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  resume to 1-800-333-7562 or leave  NO VS.W. VA TIX  LOW PRICES  why should I write when you never  
LaFortune Student Center  LOST: Sapphire ring around SOH  name & number at 1-800-332-5643.  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE  reply?  
Store Hours  at dinner Tuesday 11/11. Please  MESSAGE  FOR SALE  -don antonio  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  help me find it! REWARD. Theresa x2146  FOR RENT  ######## For Sale ########  N.D. G.A.'S  Receive breadwinner  
Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m.  2 West Virginia student tickets  survey? Please return it -you still  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  HELP!!!!!!  WALK TO CAMPUS  (cheap!!)  271-9412.  have time!  
(closed home football Sat's)  I lost my little clown! Help make the  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  call Jenny @ 687-8435  
Phone 631-COPY  world happy and send him horne.  $195/PERSON  ########################  WANTED N D G A'S  I wanted lhe real Chicago!  
Call Nick with info.  232-2595  TO ALL HOME GAMES  5 minute flute solos stink'  
P.S.-No probes.  4 WV GA's for sale call Erin 4-2453  271 1526  
SUBLETTING in Turtle Creek  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
Spring Break '98  Call MEghan 243-7894  2 West Virginia GA's for sale  2 stud tix for sale. all home games.  LaFortune Student Center  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  LOST-ROLL OF FILM AT ND- call Jen@ 687-8435 <-­ Call4-3313  .J High-Speed Copies  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free  USC GAME. LOST SOMEWHERE  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  .J Canon Color Laser Copies  
Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash  BETWEEN STADIUM & SHUTTLE  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  4 WVA GA's for SALE  .J Digital Color Printing  
& Go Free!  BUSES. PLEASE CALL 513-922­ OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  I need 1 GA for WV  call Victoria @ x1073  ,) Binding & Laminating  
1-800-234-7007  8756.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  Matt X1611  .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
www.endlesssummertours.com  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  2 WV GA tickets for sale.  Phone 631-COPY  
Ever Dreamed of Your Own  WANTED  243-0658.  3 WV TIX FOR SALE  Great price! Call soon: 4x2641  
Business? TASP International seeks students  Elementary-Jr HS Girls Basketball  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  Chris x0786  PERSONAL  B.O.M. Productions  
for next summer who want entre­ and Boys Ice Hockey Coach/s  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  Need to sell 2 WV married  
preneurial and management experi­ needed -responsible, dependable,  with private baths, $70-$90,  student txs. Call 288-9158  BEN FOLDS FIVE are coming in  Tuesdays @ Finnigan's  
ence. Positive attitude a must. Full  studenVgrad to coach 5th-8th grade  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  concert to Stepan Nov. 1 8!! Check  Half Priced pitchers  
training. Earn $8K to $10K. CALL 1­ girls basketball or boys ice hockey  Toll Road, Exit #107,  out this night of incredible music  Shot specials  
800-543-3792.  team/s Jan-Mar. for south side  1-800-418-9487.  4 GA's W Virginia  just for the sound of it! Tix at  No Cover  
independent school, located near  $25 ea.  LaFunk info desk $9 for ND, SMC,  
MIXES TO CD  Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  271-5521  HCC students, $12 for public.  Attention ND/SMC seniors:  
Impress your friendswith this unique  Must be available for practice Mon- PROPERTIES.  Any ND/SMC senior interested in a  
r  gift idea.  Thus from 1 :30­ Two WVa Ga's & Stud Tix avail $30  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  joint service project at the Boys and  
Mixes from tapes, LP's, & CO's  2:30 or 2:15-3:15. Game schedule  272-6551  & $15 (4-2795)  Mall.  Girls Club on Mondays and  
Call Doren Enterprises for info.  varies with games beginning after  Now open for indoor/outdoor play.  Tuesdays from 2:30 to 4 p.m.,  
Steve: 288-1545  shcool at 4:00,  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­ FOR SALE  Students w/ND-SMC ID-1/2 price  please call 284-4397.  
Tony: 289-3813  5:00, or 6:00 p.m. Paid position.  6551  1 WV student tix  field fee. 291-2540.  This is a great new facility that  
ILOST & FOUND I Call 291-4200 to apply. HELP!!!  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­TEA AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  CHEAP! call Brett @ 0773 NOTRE DAME  NEED AJOB? Student Activities is accepting  needs many willing volunteers. Any SMC student interested in join- 
I'm graduating in dec. and am look­ 2773097  FOOTBALL TICKETS  applications for:  ing a great service organization on  
ing for person(s) to take over my  BUY-SELL -TRADE  Gorch Games Room  campus, consider Circle K.  
••••• LOST'"" Help!!  babysitting job for two ADORABLE, WELL-BEHAVED little kids. Really  FOR SALE  232-0058  Building Set Up Crew Information Desk  Meetings are Sundays @8:15p.m. in Haggar Parlor. Any new mem- 
Large Gold "Ciaudaugh" Earring  fun family and  Building Manager  bers are welcome.  
lost at "Finnigan's" on Friday, Nov.  GOOD $$$!!! call Marie X4298  Honda Accord Hatchback  CONFIDENTIAL  Apply at 315 LaFortune.  Current members: please turn in  
7th.  1987.  93K rniles.  TICKET-MART, INC.  dues ASAP.  
If found please call Casey @  v. good condition.  1 owner.  ND Inquisition  Questions, call 284-4397.  
634-1346. Please! I It is very spe- CHRISTIAN BUSINESS OPPOR­ $3,000  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­ http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu  
cial!  TUNITY Earn a living while spread­ 631-8672  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  Who's your daddy  E -How's the cream?  
ing God's word. Join Scriptures.  674-7645.  
Sign up is FREE. To receive a  Near Campus-1338 Miner St.  how rnuch must we love your class  I know it is a couple days late, but  
REWARD: Lost gold shamrock pin.  FREE Info Pack call1-800-585­ 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New  For Sale: 4 VW GAs. 243-2643  to request EXTRA class time?  Happy 21st Birthday Ed!!!!  
Date on back. Sentimental value.  5873 option 3 and listen to  Roof, Siding & Carpet.  
If found, please contact Louise at  "Success with Scriptures." Please  Central Air & Full Basement  Two WV GA's for sale.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Spec. K -I didn't mean to pick your  
x4416.  leave my 1.0.#5237.  $44,900 1-800-382-2952  Call Shannon 4-3806  2192917153  nose. Sorry!!!  


Tuesday, November 18, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-­
• FENCING 
Irish face stiff competition in preseason tournament 
Special to The Observer 
It has been said that to get better, a team has to compete against the best. That was certainly the philosophy Notre Dame fencing followed when it traveled to Penn State to face the three-time national cham­pion Nittany Lions this week­end. 
Although the meet was not scored on a team-by-team basis, several members of the Irish squad enjoyed a success­ful weekend. In addition to competing against Penn State, Notre Dame also went up against other traditional pow­ers Stanford, Princeton, Yale and St. John's, among others. 
"I'd say we more than held our own," said sophomore Magda Krol. "We showed them what we had and that we can compete with them. This was a great opportunity to see where we stand against some great competition." 
Krol, the favorite and the defending champion in the women's epee, faced off against Penn State's Charlotte Walker. Unfortunately for Krol, she sprained her ankle late in the competition and fell 15-14 to Walker. Despite the injury, she did place seventh and was awarded the sports­manship award in the event. 
"It was frustrating to get injured," said Krol. "But the award means a lot to me, and I know I'll be back from my injury soon." 
Meanwhile, Nicole Mustilli defeated rival Ola Korfanty in the women's epee, while teammate Anne Hoos placed in the top 16. Junior captain Myriah Brown also advanced to the round of 16 in the foil event. 

"The season doesn't really get going until the spring, so we have some time to work out and get ready for the rest of the season," said head coach Yves Auriol. 
On the men's side, junior captain Luke Lavalle and Andrzej Bednarski teamed up to dominate the men's sabre, placing second and fourth, respectively. In the foil event, Chaz Hayes snatched seventh place, while Stefane Auriol finished the weekend in the top 16. 
Teammates Carl Jackson (fifth) and Brian Stone (sixth) were nearly as successful in the men's epee. 
"At this point in the season, we just want to get some experience and be prepared for the road that lies ahead," said Stone. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

in Titanium 
Today~ November 18 For time and location of meeting~ call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude~ C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentia I. 



Magda Krol, the defending champion, sprained her ankle in the tournament but still finished seventh. 
Worth its weight 
~-~--page 14 The Observer • SPORTS
-=---..:=-------------------------...::...:_::..=__:::..=:.=.:....:-=---=-=----==--=-~::::_________________:T::_:_u:_::_e:::_:sd=a~y,::_:_N_:_o_::_v::_:_e:::..:m:::..:b:..=e.:_r_:_1_::_8,:_1::....::9:...:::9.:._7 
• HOCKEY 
Irish have mixed success in weekend games 

had good team defense. We had a few break­downs. Overall it was an even game, but they got lucky at the end." 
Notre Dame rebounded the following day against Ohio State and gainfld an important two points in the CCHA standings. Special teams was the word of the day for the Irish, as they recorded two tiihort-handfld goals and a power-play goal en route to a vie­tory. They also shut down seven of eight OSU power plays. 

"We've worked a lot on special teams so far this year, and I think that this game reflects that," commented Andrusiak. .. speci a I teams The Observer/Joe Stark 
was the differ-Sophomore Joe Dusbabek scored for the Irish against Miami University, but the Red 
ence in this Hawks were able to regain the lead in the final seconds of the game. game. Our power play is great-and sophomore center Ben But Karr and the Notre Dame ly improved from last year." Simon came through with defense proved too much for 
Sophomore Irish goalie shorthanded goals, and the Buckeyes, as the hosts were Forrest Karr made 28 saves in Andrusiak contributed a power unable to get the equalizer. his first start of the season, play goal before 60 minutes "There's no doubt about it; turning away OSU's first 23 had elapsed. The Buckeyes our special teams were click­shots on goal. made things interesting, how-ing," observed Seyferth. 
The Irish charged to a 3-0 ever, scoring two goals in a "We're all playing well together lead after two periods. Cotnoir span of less than two minutes. and as a team." 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team split its two Central Collegiate Hockey Association games this weekend, falling to Miami University 5-4 on Saturday afternoon but rebounding to trounce Ohio State University 3-2 on Sunday. 
The Irish (6-4-0, 3-3 CCHA) continued their strong play on the road -Their road losses this season have all came in the final minutes of the game, including the loss to Miami, which came in the 
final seconds. 
Against nationally­ranked Miami, Notre Dame had the lead three times in the first two periods but had a turnover in its own end that allowed the Red Hawks to gain the winning goal. 
"The puck took a bad bounce," recalled sophomore defender Sean Seyferth about the final play. 'Those bounces happen, and those things equal out. We will get 
those bounces later." 
Senior center Lyle Andrusiak agreed. "It was a freaky play in our own end," explained Andrusiak. "And they one­timed a shot and got it. But we'll get those opportunities later in the season." 
In the final play, freshman defenseman Mark Eaton pre­pared to send a clear back up the sideboards. But Red Hawk Gregor Krajnc was shadowing Eaton, picked off the puck and fired a pass into the crease for Adam Copeland, who one-timed a shot into the lower left corner of the net for the game winner. 
The result belied the strong performance by the Boys of Winter. The teams traded pairs of goals in the first period, with junior defenseman Benoit Cotnoir and sophomore for­ward Joe Dusbabek scoring for the Irish. 
Miami grabbed a 4-3 lead after two periods. Andrusiak provided the only offense of the 

period for the Irish. He took a pass from Eaton and slipped a back-handed shot into the net. Andrusiak tied the game in the third period and would have forced at least a tie save Copeland's last second heroics. 
"We have not had a problem scoring this season," noted Seyferth. "The forwards played well down low, and overall we 
Opposition to the Execution of Gary Burris 
Indiana has reset the execution date for Gary Burris for November 20, 1997. Please join us in protesting this unnecessary spread of violence in our world! 
"What you do to these men you do to God.'' --Mother Theresa on visiting death row 
Should we just talk about saints or should we listen to their words and act on what we believe? The time to act is now! Please send letters and/or faxes to Governor O'Bannon letting him know that you oppose the death penalty in all cases. Urge the Governor to commute Gary's sentence to life in prison. He has the power to act--it is our task to let him know what action he should take! 
Governor Frank O'Bannon 
206 State House 
200 W. Washington 
Indianapolis, IN 46204 
Fax: 317-232-3443 

"We seek a society ofjustice, not vengeance and violence. We believe a determined, though compassionate, response to crime that forgoes the violence ofthe death penalty is more consistent with respect for all human life. It will better protect the rights ofall persons." --Joseph Cardinal Bernardin 
If efforts to stop this execution are unsuccessful, a prayer vigil will be held in the Notre Dame Law School Lounge beginning at 
11:30 PM, November 19, 1997. The vigil will be followed by a candlelight march to the grotto for further prayer and reflection. Please plan to come and stand with us as we create a witness for peace and nonviolence. Also, there will be a group making the 45 minute drive to the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City for an on-site protest. Please contact Sr. Kathleen Beatty at 631-657 5 if you are interested in going with the group. 
"Wherever there is distress which one cannot remove, one must fast and pray." --Mahatma Gandhi 
In order to prepare ourselves for the prayer vigil, and to include those who are unable to attend, we are encouraging all who support us to fast the day preceding the execution. From 12:01 AM November 19 until after the vigil we will fast to bring unity to our group and our purpose and to remind ourselves that we are people fed by the spirit. 
"We cannot do everything, and there is a sense ofliberation in realizing that. This enables us to do something, and do it very well. It may be incomplete, but it is a beginning, a step along the way, an opportunity for the Lord's grace to enter and do the rest." --Archbishop Oscar Romero 
We can make people stop and think! We can plant the seeds of change! Join us! 
Sponsored by the Center for Civil and Human Rights 

SUMMER JOB OPPORTUNITIES 
KIDS CORPORATION 
• operates summer schools in Newark, NJ 
• 
sponsors 6,000 children each summer to Kids Camp, an outdoor "classroom" day camp in Warren County, NJ 

• 
hires college students interested in the educational needs of young urban children to work in our schools or at Kids Camp 

• 
provides room and board, three college credits in Urban Education from St. Vincent College, plus $125 gross per week 


The work is hard, the hours are long, the KIDS and STAFF ARE GREAT! 
The program runs from June 21 through August 15, 1 998 
Ifyou are interested in learning more, see us at 
.... , The Lounge at The Center for Social Concerns 
·' 
Wednesday, November 19 
5:00 to 7:00p.m. (pizza provided!) 
or 
CALL US AT (908) 362-7410 NET SITE: HTTP://www.kidscamps.com/daycamps/Kidscamps/ 

of freshmen also stepped up. Reggie McKnight started out strong, and Conor LaRose came on in the second half of the season and did a great job." 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team continues to mature through the trials and tribula­tions of the Big East. Learning from its mistakes, and taking it season by season, the team hopes to build itself into a nationally recognized program. 


I 
I 
"The biggest high point of the season for us was that we 
got better and better as the season progressed," Berticelli stated. "We played much bet­ter soccer in the second. half of the season even though the results may not indicate that. We know that we can play competitively with all of the top teams in the conference. This will really give us a lot of confidence as we begin to pre­pare for next season." 
Tuesday, November 18. 1997 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
securing their place in the post season tournament. Notre Dame linished the season with rerord of 9-8-2, and a Big East record of 5-5-1. 
"I thought that we had a pretty good season considering that it was a rebuilding year for us... coach Mike Berticelli commented. "Our goal this year was to get to the Big East Tournament. As the season went on. WP wanted to get bet­ter as a team, and I think that we have done that. We lost a few games that we certainly could have won. but realisti­cally, losing the five seniors that we did last year, and end­ing up with a better-than-.500 record is a solid effort." 
The fifth-seeded Irish faced the fourth-seeded Seton Hall Pirates in the first round of the tournament at Seton Hall. Notn~ Dame once again came through when it counted and advanced to the next round with a 2-1 victory over the l'iratr.s. 
Weather conditions and St. .John's stood in the way of a repeat performance in the championship game for the Irish. !'laying on a snow-cov­ered field in brutal tempera­turPs, Notre Dame fell 4-1 to the defnnding national champi­on Hed Storm. 
Many Irish players con­tributnd to this year's success. Thn tnam was led by co-cap­tains senior Ryan Turner and junior Matt Johnson. Turner led the team in scoring with 11 goals and five assists for a total of 27 points. Johnson anchored a young defense which was responsible for eight shutouts on the year. 
The graduating seniors' prPsencc will be missed next year. Along with Turner, the Irish must say goodbye to David Cutler, Joe Gallo, Bill Savarino, Scott Wells an Matt Zimmer. Wells. and explosive offensive threat, led the team in assists with eight. Gallo and Cutler were consistent in the midfield all year. Their play on the wing contributed heavily to the team's offensive and defen­sive successes. Savarino pro­vided leadership, as well as a potent scoring threat from the midfield. 

As the Irish look to next year, they return seven starters. The whole defense returns, including goalkeeper Greg Velho. The void in the midfield will be the biggest hole to fill. With three starters leaving, the younger players will be called upon to step up. 
Based on this year's perfor­mances by many of the return­ing players, next year looks promising for the Irish. 
"Phil Murphy had a out­standing year for us. Matt Johnson was extremely consis­tent all year and played very well," Berticelli said. "A couple 

----~--,---~------~~-~-­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 18, 1997 
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish receive spot in NCAA championship 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team is setting its sights on a top-1 0 finish at the NCAA championships Monday. 
It was announced yesterday that the team would receive one of four at-large berths to the NCAA cross country championships after finishing fourth in the toughest distriCt in the country. The teams ahead of Notre Dame at the districts were No. 3 Michigan, and Wisconsin and Michigan State, who are both ranked in the top eight in the nation. The Fighting Irish follow closely with a ranking of nine. 
"If we can reproduce what we've done every time out, we can be in the top 10," saidhead coach Joe Piane. "Our guys have run consis­tently all year. We might need to improve ever so slightly in the three, four and five spot from Saturday, but if they continue to be consis­tent, we should definitely be in the top 10." 
The Irish scored 104 points in their fourth-place finish at the Great Lakes Region Meet Saturday, only 16 points behind Michigan State and 30 points behind Wisconsin. 
"I think if we perform up to our potential, we can close the gap on those tea,ms next week." said senior all­American Jason Hexing. "Our team is inexperienced at the 10,000 meters versus the 
8.000 meters. I think we'll run a lot better race next week." 
"For five of the guys, this was their first 1OK meet," said coach Piane. "Ryan Shay and Anthony Alt were 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute -Tae k:won do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 

p.m. 
on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. 


Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and 
the second and fourth best freshmen in the meet, so the future looks good. Maxwell really has come on in the sec­ond half of the season. Hexing and Antonio Arce have been our top two· late in the season, and they'll need to set the pace next week, but they can do that." 
Last year. the Irish finished ninth at the NCAAs after win­ning their district meet. Hexing and Arce are the only returning runners from that team. Rexing is an all­American. and has been a top finisher for the Irish since his freshman year. Arce, a junior, has improved tremen­dously since last season. This year. he finished 1Othat the District meet, while last sea­son, he was 116th. Other runners for Notre Dame are junior Ryan Maxwell, fresh­men Hyan Shay and Anthony Alt. and seniors Scott Grace and Mike Conway. 
The team will try to build on its previous success, including its first Big East championship. 
"We have really turned a corner from the Big East until now," said Piane. 
Of 308 Division I cross­country schools, only 22 teams qualified for the NCAA championships. The top com­petition should be No. 1 defending champion Stanford, No. 2 Arkansas, No. 3 Michigan, and No. 4 Colorado. 
"I think we're a top-10 team, probably 5th to lOth," said Rexing. "I think we ought to aim for fifth place, for the teams we can beat if we run well." 
The championships will be held Monday, Nov. 24 at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. 
___.___ Wednesdays fron19 tol~p.m. 
'kin Loftus. CalL Maureen at x4281 or Stephanie at. X'Z741' with any questions. ;;;; 
Synchronized Swimming ,...... Practices are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 

Plantyourself somewhere 
new next summer I 
Study Abroad Everywhere under the Sun 

INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS 
232 Bay State Rd., 5th Floor Boston, MA, 02215 617/353-9888 E-Mail • ahroad@hu.edu Visit our web page! • http://www.bu.edu/abroad 
Inglesby 
continued from page 20 
tonight. I think that will be a good basketball team if Inglesby continues to improve because they are pretty solid in every other position." 
Inglesby played 35 minutes of last night's contest, the most of any Irish player, scored 11 points, and contributed four. assists. He was 3-for-3 from three-point range, contributing to the Notre Dame's impressive nine-for-12 throe-point perfor­mance overall. 
On the court, he shows no indication of being a freshman as he plays confidently and runs the offense effectively. He is in no way tentative, and his swiftness displays no signs of nervousness even though he claims otherwise. In fact, his dominating presence on the court conflicts with his rather soft-spoken, humble post game personality. 
"I got some open looks at the basket, and I was able to hit a few shots," Inglesby said. "I think I played pretty well, but I was pretty nervous out there, being my first college game. I made some mistakes, but I hope to just build on this." 
Tho major question for the 1997 Markward Award winner, given to the best high school player in Philadelphia, is whether he will be able to carry his confidence into games against tougher oppo­
• SMC SWIMMING 


Calvin drops Belles in meet 
The Observer/John Daily 

Guard Martin lnglesby had 17 points and two rebounds against Citadel. 
nents, speei!ically those of the Big East conference. 
The Irish clearly outmatched the Bulldogs, but they can be sure that the conference oppo­nents will bring more size and speed. In addition to being able to handle tho physical match-up that teams like Connecticut, Villanova, or Providence will bring, one of the biggest challenges for Inglesby will be learning to handle the pressure of such games. 
"He's under a lot of pressure up there at the point," MacLeod said. "We kept ask­ing him tonight if he was okay, and he said lw was line. llo'll most likely not see as much time as he did tonight, but he's in great shape, so he will play a lot of minutes." 
As far as lnglesby is con­cerned. he is content being able a contribution for the Irish. regardless of how much or how little he plays. 
"''m a freshman and I'm just happy to be able get out there and play," he commented. "So I'm not really going to com­plain about playing too much." 
By MAHA ZAYED Sports W ri rer 
The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team faced a tough Calvin team on Saturday and lost 134-93. The Belles' record fell to 2-2. 
The Belles won three races in 

the event. Senior co-captain Allison Smith won the 1000­yard freestyle with a time of 
11:12.57. Sophomore co-captain Michelle Samreta won the 100­yard breast stroke with a time of 1:14.30, and Colleen Sullivan took first place in the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 2:06.77. 
"Right now the girls are rac­ing really well. Their times arc improving each race, but we still have to work on our turns," commented Saint Mary's coach Jini Cook. 
The Belles' next match will be Wednesday at Albion College at 7:30p.m. 

Notre Dame Goes Cold Turkey 

Join the Notre Dame Community for 
The Great American Smokeout on November 20, 1997 
Turn in your tobacco products and receive a coupon for a FREE turkey sandwich 
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following times and locations: 
Grace Hall~ 10:00~10:45 a.m. Joyce Center Gate 2 ~ 11 :00~ 11:45 a.m. LaFortune~ 11:00a.m.~2:00p.m. Both Dining Halls~ 11:00a.m.~2:00p.m. Library Concourse ~ 1:00~ 1 :45p.m. Hurley Main Lobby~ 2:00~2:45p.m. Building Services Break Room~ 3:00~3:45p.m. 
ToBACCO CESSATION MATERIALS WILL BE AVAILABLE 
This program is sponsored by IRISHealth Faculty /Staff Wellness Program, Food Services and The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 


Tuesday, November 18, 1997 
h;:f!i016'1l1t:25·'··•••·.·N.ORTHEASTERN SAM HOUSTON ST. 
t;x:n~·~rp.:;.<~t at lndiana>w!rill!\~!tilllfiit··· 
Dec. 6 at Pittsburgh ;1J:i:).ec.••·'14 .:.•DRE'XEL•\\l!~%it\~&iil\llf.41l\ffl!fM1 ••·••·· 
Dec. 20 •<.Oec~.22 Dec. 30 ·.:Jal'l; 3 . Jan. 6  FLOIDA INT'L DARMOt;J:;:FHt\J~;m•; STJOHN'S at Connecticut PITTSBURGH  
Jan. 31  at St. John's  

.•' E'at;i;!i!~t:!:i·''rie't R ...'toers:i0if\'iMM Feb. 7 at Georgetown ~ 113'Q..Q$TON COlLEGE 
at Miami CONNEC"(JtqUT. MIAMI 
• GEORGETOWN 
at Providence Home es in CAPS 
\N 72-53 7 p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 2 p.m. 2 p.m. 2 p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 12 p.m. 7:30p.m. 2 p.m. 7 p.m. 12 p.m. g p.m. 7:30p.m. 2:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 12 p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 12 p.m. 9 p.m. 3 p.m. 
All times EST 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Basketball 
continued from page 20 
three point attempts. 
On his way to a double-dou­
ble, Hickey went 7 -for-1 0 from 
the field, taking the pressure 
off Garrity in the post by scor­
ing 15 and hauling in 11 
rebounds, eight on the offen­
sive end. 
"Phil played a great game," 
Garrity said. "He did a lot of 
work in the off-season; and . he's just unstoppable in the post. He is at the point where they'll have to foul him or he's 
probably going to get two." 
Wyche was simply deadly 
last night, going 6-for-8 from 
the field, including 2-of-2 from 
behind the arc. The junior 
guard poured in 10 points in 
the first half to give the Irish a 
spark. Wyche was also solid in 
the second stanza, finishing 
the contest with 14 points, four 
rebounds, and four assists. 
"He has been playing very 
well," MacLeod praised. 
"From their match-up zone, I 
was able to get some good 
looks and was fortunate to knock them down," Wyche explained. "I am trying to build on the strong finish last season and try to take the pressure off Pat, so I was just taking what­
'Jt was real encour­
aging to see Antoni and Phil step up and have big nights. We knew that if Phil could get some playing time, he'd be able to score.' 
Coach McLeod 
ever shots they gave me." 
The Irish started the game with a 10-0 run before Virgil Stevens finally broke the lid on The Citadel's basket with 
14:32 left in the half. Stevens kept his squad in it early, scor­ing its first six points on his way to a team-high 15 points. 
Notre Dame could not deliver the knock-out blow to The Citadel, whose record now page 17 
-

stands at 0-2. The home team managed to get the lead up to 16 on a three-pointer by Garrity with four minutes left in the half, but three first half treys from Jonathan Kunz kept the Bulldogs within striking distance at the half, 37-24. 
"We tried to knock them out but just couldn't do it," MacLeod said. "I was really impressed with them." 
Coming out of the locker room, The Citadel continued to battle and simply would not go away, closing the gap to 43-35 five minutes into the second. But the Irish offense started to roll with excellent passing and ball movement to push the lead to 19 by game's end. MacLeod will have to take the good with the bad in the early going as his team committed 21 turnovers to go with 21 assists. 
"There were times last year when we were happy with 12 or 13 assists," MacLeod said. 
At times, one could tell that this was a season opener as the Irish are not yet in the con­dition that they need to be iq with the offense becoming stagnant and impatient at times. 
"You could -see us tugging on our shorts some there in the second half and we were gasp­ing some," MacLeod observed. "We were a bit jumpy and antsy, but we'll have to take care of that before we play Marquette." 
Nonetheless, the Irish cer­tainly got their season off on the right. foot, dominating the glass by a 45 to 28 margin, including 18 offensive rebounds in a tremendou<> effort. .. 
But MacLeod did discover that he had more weapons than Garrity in an almost per­fectly balanced attack. 
"It was real encouraging to 

see Antoni and Phil step up 
and have big nights," 
MacLeod said. "We knew that 
if Phil could get some playing 
time, he'd be able to score 
and rebound." 
MacLeod and his squad 

hope that they can build on 
last night's success in their 
next challenge when they take 
on the Golden Eagles of 
Marquette in Milwaukee in 
one of their toughest games 
outside the Big East . 

INTERNATIONAL 
JOB SKITLS 
New professional M.A. in International Affairs or Interamerican Studies prepares you rapidly for exciting careers: 
0 environmental studies 0 public health 0 government 0 international 
organizations 0 international media, 
business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sciences. 
Complete this intensive multi-disciplinaty degree in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fascinating international city. 
Free details. 
SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Coral Gables, FL 33124-301 o 305-284-4173; Fax: 305-284-4406 www.miami.edu/sis


-
• WOME!\(S BASKETBAll 


Ruth Riley stretches over the defenders while releasing her shot in recent hoops action. The Irish are hoping for leadership and a strong presence from Niele lvey this season. 
New season kicks off tonight for the Irish 
By JOE CAVATO Bulldogs. There are live players senior Sarah Schuetz, and the Henderson will start in the mid­take the ball inside and sink the Assistant Sports Editor on the active roster who are 6-junior college transfer is Lori dle. open three. foot-2 or taller, but only one of lves. Both are expected to be Other Irish post players will "We have experience on the 
The preseason is over, and those players -sophomore very active in the paint tonight. see their fair share of playing perimeter. and they have some­the women's basketball team Julie Henderson -was with "They bring a lot of experi­time, are freshmen Huth Hiley one who can shoot the three," will now keep score as it opens the team last year, making ence in the post where we have and Meaghan Leahy, along with Owens remarked. "But I think its season tonight against the experience a concern for the a lot of freshmen and sopho­junior Diana Braendly. They with Mollie, Sheila, Daniello Butler Bulldogs at home. Irish. mores, but we're pretty good have made contributions Green, Niele lvey, and Kari 
Head coach Muffet McGraw "Butler is very good in transi­talent-wise," Owens said. "If we throughout the pre-season. Hutchinson, we are probably had an unusually short off-sea­tion and very experienced with 'do what we're suppose to do Notre Dame will come out in bettnr on the perimetnr ." son due to last year's run to the a one post player who led them defensively, we shouldn't have its three guard offense where For this young and inexperi­Final Four, and she hopes her in scoring and rebounding last too much of a problem." its experience lies. Senior co­enced team, thn early season squad is prepared for the chal­year, and a junior college trans­Freshman Kelley Siemon has captain Mollie Peirick and will involve learning about each lenges of the season ahead. fer who can score and been impressive in the presea­junior co-captain Sheila other and finding out how good 
Challenges will be presented rebound," Owens explained. son and will likely get the start McMillen both pose as danger­they can. That learning process to the Irish early and often as The post player for Butler is at the forward spot, while ous threats with their ability to begins tonight. 
the schedule contains several ranked opponents in the first month of the season. So McGraw and her staff hope their team can get off on the right foot tonight in what will likely be a physical matchup with the Bulldogs. 
"We're expecting a real phys­ical game from what we've heard and the scouting that we have done," assistant coach Carol Owens said. "We know that they're big in the post." 
Notre Dame certainly has the size to match-up with the 
BUY DIAMONDS . BELOW .WHOLESALE! . 
9!~f!IJ~&cr&~ 
Since 1921 
CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmart Editor's Choice Award 
The Natural Law Institute 
presents 

The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
_.... 
.' 

MEN IN BLACK 7fjh.J, aJre ~? 7fJWt4~~? 

~-fJUH. ~-e.s.e. ~-tidt U'ad. e.s.e. 
7M-~~rmt4e ~~ ~ ~-~ ~~CIJ#tta.d ~SeHtU<aluf • 1f.,w,e Z'.-e. 1~ 46556 
(219} 631-63%5 • ~:1/.--..d.ed«./-~ 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 
,;j 

Upcoming Lectures: 
April17 
josEPHRAZ 


Tuesday, November 18, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
_______:___________________________::_..:c:_:_--=----'----'--=---=--=-=-----------· -·­
-

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 


November 19 

•
........... p 
& Women's Tennis Teams 

For More Info. Contact: RecSports -1-61 00 www.nd.edu/-recsport 

1T'5 ALWA'<'S GOOD TO TEST A. NEW !DEf>. WI.TH 
KNOWN  LOSERS  TO  
DON'T  
49 Germany's  
Dortmund--­ 
Canal  
50 Quite a while  
51 Actress North  
53 Fortune  
55 Less relaxed  
57 Japanese floor  
covering  
58 Olympics sport  
discontinued  
after1908  

59 Hit song of 1968 
60 Swore 
DOWN 
1 Sci-fi enemy 2 Like some speeches 3Airport employee, at times 4 Fix 
5 Caper 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
14 Its capital is 42 "Hippolyte et 48 Castilian kisses 6 More than Doha Aricie" 50 "Look--.
upsets 21 Iraqi, most likely composer 51 Faction7 German 24Net 43 Sham 52 Wonderlandpronoun 25 Join 44 Phoebe's sister character a More angry 
27 Trig function on "Friends" 54 Chou En--­9Cool 
2Bis smart 46 Salamanders 56 A Turner 10 "... some kind 
29So much,
of--?" 
musically· 11 Line part: Abbr. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
340ilof-­
are available by touch-tone phone: 12 Eats with 36 Beekeeper 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

enthusiasm 37 Fast food Annual subscriptions are available for the 13 Astaire and request best of Sunday crosswords from the last others 
41 Faded (out) 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

MIKE PETERS MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM SCOTT ADAMS 


g OOGBERT'5 RESEI\RC\-1 CO. 
~============~ 
WHI\T A. COINCIDENCE. WE ~OTH LOST THREE 1-\0MES tN 
fLOOD ZONE.S. 

Aries: Expect the unexpected today when new variables sneak into your equation. A confrontation ends in an embrace. What begins with discord could end in accord. Taurus: One quick, strong push gets you moving today. You won­der why you've held yourself back for so long. Self-improvement becomes less of a tedious chore if 
it's done in a partnership or as part of a team. 
Gemini: Your actions are 
enhanced by their context today. A 
simple explanation becomes a lec­
ture course for college credit as 
more people stop to listen. The 
messenger is as fascinating as the 
message. 

Cancer: Expect some difficulty 
with a relationship that is generally 
stable. Ideas are challenged from 
an unexpected quarter. Avoid sud­
den movements when standing on 
shaky ground. 

Leo: All forms of courtship are 
favored today, from corporate to 
romantic, from subtle compliment 
to friendly ambush. You can say 
what you mean in just a fewwords, 
but it could lead to a long discus­
sion. Dating will be a memorable 
experience. 

Virgo: Test the strength of your 
emotional commitment by making 
a joint purchase with your partner. 
A discussion about value carries 
metaphorical weight. Do some­
thing fun to lighten up a serious 
moment. 
Libra: No matter what your social class, today you feel like royalty. Everyone is reaching out to touch the hem of your robe. Remember that benevolent rulers play much­better in history thantyrants. Scorpio: Establishing your cre­dentials may be a bit of a struggle today. If the playing field isn't level, you may as well concede the game and go home early. Talk with someone who understands your dreams. Sagittarius: Personal power is even more thrilling when you accept theresponsibilities that come with it. Honor your own hopes and wishes once you've taken care of everyone else. Friendship is a refuge after a hard day inpublic. Capricorn: Summaries are favored over details today if you hope to win someone's favor. Justice will be served if you move quickly. Be wary of delays during a decision process. Aquarius: Accentuate similarities instead of differences today. You connect the dots in a way that usu­ally seems impossible. Experience is the best teacher, and you are ripe for another lesson. Pisces: Someone close to you may be putting on an act for your benefit. Ask a thousand questions before agreeing to make major changes. Distrust anyone who asks you to compromise your 
ideals. 

DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Righteousness to a fault 9 Market grp. 15 Schubert song 16 City near Syracuse 17 Judged, in a way 18 Denver athlete 19 Storage areas 20 Ref. book 2270's extremist grp. 23 "--Three Lives" 24 Former TV co-host 25 Funeral stand 26 Cyberspace abbr. 
27 Fakes 30 Ship's heading 31 --Hill (James 
Monroe's home) 32 Ashby of the 80's Astros 33 Fat, in France 35 North Dakota native or city 38 Mother of Levi anp Judah 39 Bank acct. entry 40 Not classical 42 Comfort, in a way 45 Cinch 46 Not 47 Hungarian patriot Nagy 48 Bangkok money 


SPORTS 

page 20 Tuesday, November 18, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Balanced scoring helps Irish crush Citadel 
Regular season gets 
Inglesby fills void for 
off on positive note Irish at guard as he 
with 19-point victory gets his first start 
By JOE CAVATO By BETSY BAKER Assistant Sports Editor Associate Sports Editor 
Heading into the regular season, one of After coming off the most successful the biggest concerns for head basketball year thus far of the John MacLeod era of coach John MacLeod was who was going Notre Dame basketball, all the Irish head to pick up the slack when. his superstar coach wants to do is keep the ball Pat Garrity had an off night. rolling. 
MacLeod must feel a lot more comfort­MacLeod's efforts to build on last
--able about his team this year after last year's post-season performance have night's convincing 72-53 win over The included bringing in a talented freshman Citadel after watching four players score class to fill in the voids left by last year's in double figures for the Irish. seniors. One of the major voids going Garrity had to work hard for his game­into this season was that left by Admore high 18 points. The all-American hope­White, last year's starting point guard. ful's shot was off, going just 6-for-19 Fortunately, along came Martin Inglesby from the field. to help keep tlw momentum going. "I was kind of disappointed in my per­Inglesby started his first regular sea­formance," Garrity said. "I was pressing son gamc with the Irish last night too much and passing up open looks and against The Citadol and ran the point for not taking what they were giving me." tlw Irish nearly the whole game. "Pat was probably his own worst If lnglesby starts collp,cting nickPls for enemy tonight," MacLeod said. "He was every time MacLeod or opposing coaches pressing things and maybe was thinking commnnt on how "poised he is for a he had to do too much, and he was not frnshman," lw'll probably bn a rich man taking some open shots." by tlw end of the snason. While Garrity just couldn't get shots to llowever, then~ n~ally is no bettm· way go down, his teammates picked up the to describe the 5-foot-ll point guard slack, and practically everything they from Philadnlphia. threw up was falling. Phil Hickey was "lin really has rmnarkabln poise for a dominant in the post, while Antoni fn~shman," MacLnod said after the 72-53 Wyche and Martin Ingelsby were brilliant win ovor the Bulldogs. "It rnally is a dif­on the perimeter. ficult position to play with all tlw rnspon­"They shot lights out, and their guards sihilitins that go along with it, but lw has just played exceptionally well," Citadel handled it very wnll." coach Pat Dennis said. Citadel coach Pat Dcmnis went so far to That is the best way to describe the say that the dnvelopnwnt of the Irish Irish shooting. Hickey, Wyche, Ingelsby, team as a whole this season depends and Friel combined to connect on 17 of very much on thn freshman. their 27 shots. Those guards shot an "I likn him," Dennis commnnted of astounding 7 -for-8 from three point land, lnglnsby. "I saw in him in summer and the team finished the game hitting camp. lie's smart, he's quick, and I on an incredible 7 5 percent (9-12) of its thought he played a vnry solid game 
The Observer/John Daily 

see BASKETBALL/ page 17 Irish star Pat Garrity scored 18 and had 9 rebounds for Notre Dame against Citadel. see INGLESBY/ page 16 

• MEN's SOCCER 
Rebuilding season ends above .500 for the Irish 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sporrs Writers 
The 1997 season proved to be full of ups and downs for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. The Irish finished the year with an overall record of 10-9-2 and a conference record of 6-6-1. 
The Irish put together a five-game unbeaten streak early in the season. Wins over conference foes Providence, West Virginia, Villanova and Hutgers paced the Irish as they rolled through September. At the midway point of the season, Notre Dame had a record of 6-2-2 and was atop the Big East standings. 
However, what goes up, usually comes down. This 
Irish. October proved to be a very challenging month for Notre Dame. It consisted of a Texas road trip that featured highly ranked Southern Methodist and a rough Big East fall break. Notre Dame dropped four straight confer­ence games while hosting Georgetown and traveling to St.John's, Seton Hall and Connecticut. 
After a dismal 2-6 record in October, the Irish found themselves in a must-win sit­uation against Boston College in the regular season finale. In order to qualify for the Big East tournament, Notre Dame would have to beat the Eagles, and snap a four-game losing streak in the process. The Irish came up big and defeated Boston College 3-1, 
definitely held true for the 
see SOCCER/ page 15 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Freshman midfielder Connor LaRose hopes to emerge as one of the leaders for Notre Dame next season. 

vs. West Virginia .-:• vs. Ferris State 
~ 

• 
~-
November 22, I :30 p.m. 
;:: t~ November 20, 7 p.m. 

• Woman's b-ball kicks off season 
Women's Swim at Arizona 
Men's Basketball at Marquette 

November 21, I 0 a.m. 
November 21, 7 p.m. see page 18
•..-4
--= 

#1111 
vs. Nebraska 
Basketball at Kalamazoo 

• Hockey splits weekend 
•sf' a; ~

\:~ November 23, 1 p.m. 
·~ Novemb.er 21, 8 p.m. 
see page 14

Women's Basketball vs. Butler 
Swimming at Albion 
sc ~ 

November 18, 7 p.m. November 19, 7:30 p.m. 
• 


