~--------------~------~~~~~--------~--------------~----------~-------------­

Thursday, March 27, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 114 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Alvare: Abortion is powerlessness, not freedom 
By SARAH J. HILTZ is illusory, as is evidenced by News Writer the fact that 50 percent of abor­
tions are repeat abortions. This, 
One of the most popular argu­she suggested, indicates that ments used to refute the pro­·abortion is not a means of con­life argument is that the free­trol over oneself, but is rather a dom of women is compromised sign of powerlessness. if they are denied the to right to She also mentioned that while choose. Helen Alvare. the having a child may prevent a spokesperson on abortion for woman from improving her life the National Council of Catholic by getting a job or going to Bishops, docs not believe that school, abortion does not in any this is the case. way make her life better, as it 
Addressing a standing-room will not guarantee that she will only audience in the' Law be able to do anything. School courtroom, Alvarc took She also countered the claim a new angle on an old topic by of pro-choice supporters that, addressing the concept of free­in many cases, abortions pre­dom. "The number one value in vent social problems caused by [the pro-choice argument! was unwanted pregnancies. being independent and free," "Unwanted pregnancies do said Alvare. not usually translate into 
Many advocates of abortion unwanted children," she stated. assert that denying women the According to Alvare, the right to choose robs them of abortion industry has long been control over their own lives. guilty of not informing women These would equate the deci­of the dangers of and alterna­sion to have an abortion with tives to abortion. She claimed the ability to correct a mistake, that many illegal street abor­or to control one's body. Alvare said. however, that such control see ALYARE I page 4 
• 1997 CLASS OFFICER ELECTIONS
Cranes tear up Stepan courts 
Class of '98 chooses 
Construction will likely finish in 
Nolan ticket in run-off time for Bookstore By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
By SEAN SMITH 
The class officer elections
News Writer finally came to a close last 
night as the class of 1998
The fears of those who have chose the ticket consisting ofrecently passed by the basket­
Beth Nolan, Connie
ball courts outside of Stepan 
Dougherty, Bob Flannery,Center and apprehensively 
and Brian McCarthy.
wondered about the fate of this 
They defeated Colin
year's Bookstore Basketball O'Reilly, Jon Steele,
Tournament can be put to rest. 
Catherine Monahan, and ErikConstruction on the courts is 
Burns in the election
expected to be completed by Wednesday.
April 15, with the repaving of Despite low voter turnout in
the courts finished sho-rtly the dorms, the Nolan ticket
thereafter. 
secured their win with 55
Center Line Mechanical percent of the vote.
Contracting is putting in two 30 
"The home dorms really
-inch waterlines that will run 
supported the candidates," The Observer/Brian Blank 
cast to west from the power plant to Juniper Road. The said Nolan. "We appreciate Union bylaws, election
the turnout in these dorms."
lines, that will run directly posters must also be 
under the basketball courts, A campaign violation was approved by the Student
narrowly avoided when the
will carry chilled water and be 
Union. 

used to supply air conditioning O'Reilly ticket only got one of The O'Reilly ticket said it
the required two approval
to buildings on campus. 
was unclear that the postersstamps on some of the sec­

Michael Smith, director of 
had to be stamped twice, andond-round campaign posters.

Facilities Engineering, expects some were posted after beingAll posters that are displayed
the two waterlines to be approved by only the Student 
on campus must be approved
installed by April 15, but said The Observer/ Brei Hogan Activities Office. The intallation of new water lines under the Stepan courts should be by student activities. see STEP AN I page 8 done in time for Bookstore Basketball. According to the Student see RUN-OFF I page 4 



• GRADUATE SnmENT UNION 

Coshow, Ji:tnning take control of GSU 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN the process of improving and enhancing all aspects including our work with the Assistant News Editor the quality of graduate student life in all administration, which has grown more its various dimensions." friendly and entrenched as the year has 
Stepping into the leadership of the Janning, vice president-elect, said that progressed." Graduate Student Union, Suzanne her job would be to facilitate these goals A standing GSU seat on the Academic Coshow and Michelle Janning will by seeking out "members of the gradu­Council, which was acquired by last assume the positions of president and ate school to get involved in the process. year's administration, survived its first vice president, respectively. I will be going out there so the members year with Ana Laura Roderigtiez-Gusta 
Their term officially begins when Rob can associate a name with a face." filling the position. De Ilaan and Melissa Falb step down at The incoming administration also "She did fantastic work," De Haan the year-ending April 7 meeting of the plans to continue many programs begun said. "She and I presented a report to Graduate Student Council. under De Haan and Falb. the Graduate Affairs Subcommittee [of 
Coshow and Janning won the election "It has been a really good year," said the Academic Council] on how we think on a platform of "reachfing] out to all De Haan. "The GSU has been growing a students should fit into the provost's graduate students and including them in lot and we have worked toward that in 
see GSU I page 4 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 27, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

COBA needs CORE 
Our School of Business is a source of pride for our university. From COBA itself to the individual. acclaimed departments, it is a top notch school which develops Notre Dame students into grad­uates prepared for the job 

market and the business  Eduardo Llull  
world. However, in order  Associate Viewpoint Editor  
to prepare these students  
to this extent, is the col­ 

lege sacrificing the very basic and essential parts of academia? 
The business school prepares its students to be hired by, hopefully, a top notch company. I do not doubt that most of my friends in business will get a job before I do, myself being in the College of Arts and Letters. However, I would hope that there is more to attending a university than getting a job. 
Websters dictionary defmes education first as the act or process of developing the powers of reasoning and judgement. Only second does it define it as the act of developing a certain skill for a profession. According to Webster, the busi­ness school may be lacking a complete curricu­lum. 
Notre Dame does require courses in fields out­side of business that are aimed at forming a more well-rounded student. However, most stu­dents, including myself, take these requirements and look for the easy teacher. Even if we do not end up with that easy teacher, these classes do not do much toward challenging our prejudices or forcing us to come to a more sensitive outlook on the problems of our society. 
The business world is not as cut and dry as the sheet of requirements that the business school prints out for their students to use as a guide in choosing their classes. Businesses deal with the real world, and the real world involves moral and ethical issues involving real people. Dealing with these issues requires special training. 
I am sure that the business ethics courses offered by the business school can help in these situations, but not completely. These issues require a good knowledge of our society and its problems. They need to be handled sensitively and intelligently through well thought out opin­ions and morals. 
In order to arrive at this stage of development morally and intellectually, students must chal­lenge their own opinions and beliefs. This will either expose these beliefs as ignorance, or strengthen them. It can be done twofold: through appropriate readings, and through open discussion with peers. The Arts and Letters CORE class serves this purpose. 
The CORE class is required for all sophomore Arts and Letters majors. It deals with our soci­ety, its origins, and the philosophy behind it. The selected readings force the student to look at issues of race, poverty, God, the self, and nature differently. There is something at once frustrat­ing and at the same time exciting about having your opinions, which you felt were set in stone, challenged in a discussion or through a reading. Once your opinions have been challenged, your belief system is either strengthened, or it is dis­mantled. Restructured in its place is a new sys­tem of beliefs based on something more tangible. 
CORE can be tough. There is a lot of reading, and depending on the teacher, a lot of writing. But the experience is invaluable. Through the course one gains a better understanding of our society, and a better competency in dealing with its problems. I would want our nation's future business men and women to have this experience. 
Despite the very full schedule of the business major, I think there must be room for a CORE course. With the efficient skills every business major acquires, the CORE course can help to make these skills well-rounded and more fit for the complexity of the business world. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Graphics Heather Cocks Brian Blank David Freddoso Production 
Sports Mark DeBoy Allison Krilla Josh Guerra Viewpoint David Freddoso Dan Cichalski Heather Cocks Accent 
Lab Tech Joey Crawford 
Joe Stark 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORI..D AT A GlANCE 
Army, protesters jubilant as prime minister resigns 
PORT MORESBY, Papua New Guinea 
Jubilant soldiers and protesters ended a blockade of Parliament yesterday, after forcing the resignation of a prime minis­ter who brought in foreign mercenaries to fight secessionist rebels. 
Prime Minister Julius Chan defended his actions as he stepped down, saying he had acted to defuse an "explosive" situation after protesters and mutinous soldiers blockaded Parliament House and refused to let lawmakers leave. The defense and finance ministers also agreed to resign while an interim gov­ernment runs the country until national elections in June. 
"I think I have taken the right course to preserve peace, to preserve order. This is the right thing to do," Chan told lawmakers, to applause. 
Outside, about 2,000 protesters cheered loudly at the news, then let the lawmakers -about 80 of whom had spent the night in their offices -leave the building. 
Chan said he would convene the Cabinet within 24 hours to appoint an acting prime minister. 
He did not indicate who might replace him, but said that the changes which will soon be made would ensure public confi­dence in a judicial inquiry into the coun­try's mercenary contract with Sandlin·e International, a British mercenary firm. 
Chan's government had hired the British and South African mercenaries to quash a 9-year-old rebellion on the island of Bougainville. 

300kmc, About 1,000 people have died since the AP rebellion began in 1988 as an environ­
mental protest, then escalated into a 

guerrilla war to secede from Papua New Guinea, off 
Australia's northeast tip. 
Yeltsin denounces bureaucratic waste 
. MOSCOW 

No more Mercedes, BMWs or Audis. From now on, by decree of President Boris Yeltsin, bureaucrats will cruise around town in sensible Volga sedans. Only Russian cars for Russian offi­cials.Yeltsin sent this thunderbolt through the gilded halls of the Kremlin on Wednesday, the eve of a nationwide strike. Millions of workers who have 


gone months without paychecks are expected to walk off their jobs Thursday in a desperate effort to call attention to their plight. Presumably, the president's decree was designed to send a message to ordinary Russians ­angered by the growing fleets of imported luxury cars in Moscow -that the government shares their pain.What Yeltsin didn't say was whether his decree applies to his own dark blue Mercedes limousine. Kremlin officials say they haven't seen the order yet, so can't say whether it will apply to their top boss. In Soviet times, foreign cars were extremely rare. But luxury imports have become all the rage in recent years among government officials and the new Russian elite. 
Vatican condemns execution 
VATICAN CITY 

A Cuban refugee whose face mask caught fire as he died in Florida's electric chair suffered a "barbaric" end, the Vatican newspaper said Wednesday. L'Osservatore Homann said Pedro Medina was "burned alive like a torch" when he was executed Tuesday for murdering a woman in 1982. Pope John Paul II had made a plea for mercy for Medina, who came to the United States in the 1980. The pope has sought to inter­vene in a number of death penalty cases. "That this incredible, tragic event might cause justice ol'licials to reflect and abolish capital punishment is the least one can hope for in this Holy Week in which the Christian world commemorates another condemnation to death: that of Christ," wrote the Hev. Gino Concetti, the news­paper's commentator on moral issues. "He found the most barbaric end in the country of democraey and lib­erty," wrote Concetti, whose article is the first word out of the Vatican on the execution. Roman Catholic teach­ing holds that capital punishment should be used only if absolutely necessary to protect society. In an encyclical last year, John Paul said such cases are "practically non-existent." 
Fino pleads for armistice 
TIRANA, Albania 

Premier Bashkim Fino pleaded with Albanians on Wednesday to lay down their arms and give safe pas­sage to European aid shipments to help stave off famine. European Union ministers have agreed to pro­vide an initial $2.3 million in food and other relief, but only if Albania safeguards the aid workers and ship­ments, Fino said in an address on state television. "We must organize to restore order to our towns, because without guarantees, this aid can't reach its destination," Fino said. An EU delegation, meanwhile, headed to Albania to help end a month-old insurgency that has killed over 160 people and sent many Albanians fleeing to Italy. The United Nations warned Wednesday that Albania faces food shortages after weeks of anarchy in which mobs looted state warehouses, disrupting com­merce. Food supplies were already uncertain after a poor 1996 harvest, and the rioting may interrupt har­vesting and planting this year, the Rome-based U.N. food agency said. President Sali Berisha and his Democratic Party reluctantly agreed this month to set up a caretaker government under Fino, a member of the opposition Socialist Party. 
Hubble camera out of focus 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

An infrared camera installed by spacewalking astro­nauts on the Hubble Space Telescope last month is part­ly out of focus and will not last as long as planned, NASA said today. "We are going to lose some lifetime, there's no question about that," said Ed Weiler, NASA's chief Hubble scientist. Provided the $105 million Ncar­Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer does not deteriorate further, scientists should be able to work around the problem and still collect all the desired data on black holes and remote stars a.nd galaxies, Weiler said. "We tend to be very conservative considering our history," he said, referring to Hubble's originally flawed mirror. "Until we're absolutely sure things are going to go the way we think they will, we always want to look at the worst case." One of three cameras in the Ncar­Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer, called Nicmos, is too far out of focus to be corrected by on­board systems, Weiler said. The two others are working fine, he said. Scientists believe the focusing problem with camera No. 3 resulted from the expansion of nitrogen ice, needed to keep the infrared detectors operating at minus-355 degrees Fahrenheit. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
: ···············;::::* /.:....................... , ...... r H..... L

·.1-______  
!  
Thursd~y  i)  65  46  
.,.,,  
Friday 1  ~  63  38  
'  
' Saturd~y  ~  47  31  
I  '' '''  
Sunda~  ~  45  33  
.i  
j Mon~ay  ~  46  34  

:£ _:>-n._f"'··~...~ ..-/·-"'\,~: 
The AccuWeather<~'>forecast for noon, Thursday, March 27. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
............--r..........._ ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
tO 1997 AccuWeather, lnc . 

Pressure 
H L ITJ ~ [Z] Q ~ ~ G 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 
Atlanta  74  46  Columbus  76  46  Los Angeles 72  55  
~~-ci)udu ¢­,,',,,~ ...~ ...... :. ·:·.(.;:=· -=--=--=­Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Via Associated Press GrsphicsNet  ~ d Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Baltimore 73 Baton Rouge 80 Casselberry 82 Chicago 67  35 62 q3 39  Dallas 68 Denver 71 Honolulu 82 Indianapolis 70  52 40 71 37  Miami New York Phoenix Pittsburgh  86 60 85 68  70 40 56 32  


Thursday, March 27, 1997 
Bernadin Center selects Malloy 


The center was named in The Catholic Theological
ND president 
memory of the late Cardinal Union, founded in 1968, is the Joseph Bernadin of Chicago. largest Roman Catholic gradu­
'happy to serve' 
"Before the cardinal died, ate school of theology and the center was for pastoral ministry in North America.
on board 
ministry," said Malloy. "Now With a current enrollment of it encompasses this aspect 350 graduate students in mas­By HEATHER MACKENZIE while also training people for ters and doctoral programs,
News Writer 
lay ministries." the school hopes the new cen­Along with the training, the ter will extend its Catholic
The new Bernadin Center 
center will sponsor theological principles to more of the com­
for Theology and Ministry 
research, public discussions, munity.
recently appointed Father 
and various programs in areas Cardinal Bernadin died inEdward Malloy to its national of concern to the Catholic November of pancreatic can­
board of 
Church. cer. He was the 1995 recipi­advisors. 
Malloy remarked that his ent of Notre Dame's Laetare
The cen­
function on the board would Medal, one of the most presti­
ter, at the 
be primarily to assist in strate­gious honors awarded to
Catholic 
gizing for all proposed activi­American Catholics.
Theological 
ties. Malloy is looking forward to
Union in 
"This appointment confirms his opportunity to serve On theChicago, will good relations between Notre committee.
offer acade­Dame and the Church and dio­"We will be dealing with
mic training 
cese in Chicago," Malloy stat­important works of the Churchand scholar-ed. "The Chicago-area Church in the archdiocese of Chicago," ships to both lay and religious has a deep connection with he said. "I am happy to servemen and women. 
the university." in any way that can help."
,.......:...._____, 

Are you hurtingafter an abortion? 
Find solutions to your p_ain.Our support group can help. 
Call Paula at ~ 
254-2784 @JJJ:2 . . 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 TrACH EmLISH in 
EASTERN EUROPE 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic






GREAT \YALL 
conversational En&lish in Eastern Europe? Our matenaJs profiJe many rewarding teaching opportunities with
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
great benefits. For mformation, call: 130 Dixie Way N., South,lltnd (next to Howard Johnson) 
(206) 971-3680 Ext. K55845 
We tre ~ reteuch 41 pubHihing co. 
Stop by for lunch any day of the week, or just call us for a mouth watering treat. 
Notre Dome 
(Formerly Cactus Jacks) 

271-1177 Saint Mary's
()~ping I 
(North Village Mall)
rch 31> 1 .99 I 271-PAPA
t_ _____ _J 
Mon-Thurs: contest 11a.m.-1 a.m. sponsored by Papa's and HPC.
Fri-Sat: 
Contest ends 
11 a.m.-3 a.m March 31st. Call
sunday: 
HPC for more
12 p.m.-1a.m. information. 
DK, Ok, mavbe-l# VOU look in the Aprll 2ndissue-o,f:ife Dbser11er vou might #ind out who won the contest. 
LET'S CELEBRATE! 

HAPPY 21ST BD, JENI! 

The Multicultural Executive Council is looking for new members. 

~pplications are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune and are due back to this office by April 4, 1997. 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 


Alvare GSU 
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 

tions are often safer than clinical procedures, plans and on ways to improvesince the former fear legal detection, while the graduate student teaching."latter know that the law is reluctant to make rul­
He also spoke about using
ings against them. That women are often not 
the Academic Council scat to 
properly informed, Alvare stressed, is contrary to coordinate efforts with depart­
every definition of freedom. 
ments as a way of enhancing"[Abortion clinics] don't think you need to evaluation forms for graduateknow any more about what you're choosing 
student teachers. "There is 
because once you choose it, you're free," Alvare 
not a lot of uniformity," De 
asserted. 
Haan said. "In some casns it 
Alvare also discussed partial-birth abortions, a can't be done, but wn have to 
procedure in which the base of the brain is find some way of making it 
stabbed and the skull is crushed. She explained 
more uniform." 

that the partial-birth method is extremely dan­
He also described possible 
gerous, since bone chips may cause injury to the constitutional changes that will 
mother. 
be discussed at thn next moot­
Another potential consequence of this method ing. "We realize that wn had a is that the fetus may accidentally be delivered 
ton of committees that we did 
alive. Alvare stated that she has asked abortion not really need," De llaan said. technicians what they would do in this circum­
"So we decided to narrow 
stance, to which they replied they would have lit­
down the committees to five 
tle choice but to kill the newborn baby. 
necessary ones: Social Life,Women are often not informed of these possi­Academic Affairs, Quality of ble consequences. Alvare argued, "How could Life, Gender and Multicultural you enhance women's freedom by not informing 
Affairs and Information 
them of dangers, by telling them lies?" She also 
Technologies."

stated that these procedures are often not even 
He explained that each of 
performed by obstetricians or gynecologists. 
these committees would be 
"The partial-birth method is a delivery ... in 
political, with agendas and 
fact, it's more dangerous than a delivery." 
platforms. Each of the other 
To support her arguments, Alvare cited pas­pointed out that the struggle over abortion tran­tasks currently handled by sages from "Faithful for Life," a 1995 pastoral scends the legal realm, and that "it is about per­committees will be undertaken letter written on abortion, and "Evangelium sonal conversions." A student in the audience by "secretaries" that only do Vitae," the encyclical in which Pope John Paul II asked Alvare what she says to pro-choicers to that specific job. refers to "the culture of death" which supports make them see her perspective. One aspect of the De Haan­
"inauthentic notions of freedom." "I would ask them, what are the differences Falb administration that will To conclude last night's lecture, which was between the born and unborn that allow you to definitely carry over to next simulcast on closed circuit television in order to kill one and not the other, and are they proud of 
year involves the Social Life 
accommodate the overflow of the crowd, Alvare those differences," Alvare replied. 
Committee. "This year we tried to branch out to different ways of hosting 
involved," she said. "It had hope that the fact that there 
events for all graduate stu­
no effect on the election." were so many candidates for
Run-off 
dents," De Haan said. He ref­
Some of the campaign goals this election shows a growing 
erenced two teas that the com­
continued from page 1 the Nolan ticket aims to interest in student govern­
mittee held in the faculty din­
achieve are a post-graduate ment. 
ing room of the South Dining
"We caught the mistake web page, an off-campus "It would be great if the 
Hall on Fridays.

right away," said Burns. "We information center, more free number of tickets is indicative 
"We are going to support
went straight to the Student food nights, and the return of of the fact that students want 
creative ideas that are more
Union office and all the the Alumni-Senior Club's to get more involved in class 
inclusive of families and of all 
posters were approved." "liquid lunch" policy. activities," Dougherty said. 
graduate students, regardless
According to Dovidio, the "We are really ready to get A sense of relief came with 
of what culture they are from,"
mistake had only a minor sig­the ball rolling and continue the announcement of the 
Janning said.

nificance. to serve the class," said election results. 
Another aspect that the GSU
"We handled the problem Nolan. "We are just glad its over," 
worked on this year was the
internally with the candidates The newly-elected officers said Flannery. 
Travel Grant Program. 

Thursday, March 27, 1997 
Haising the Travel Grant Fee from $10 to $15 guaranteed that $18,000 would be avail­able for the program each year. The graduate school has promised to match this fund­ing, making $36,000 available to graduate students for travel grants. 
"We funded the program with 36 [thousand dollars] last year at about 95 to 100 per­cent for all three periods," De ll<tan said. "So, with this Sflt up, the program is very safe and protocted and should run very smoothly on the funds available." 
The major concern that will carry over between adminis­trations is tlw as-yet-unsolved problem of providing health care for graduate students. Currently, a single student only pays $450-500 for the M1~galife plan. 
"While this is ridiculously cheap for health care," De llaan said, "many students find it to be inadequatfl coverage. 
"More alarming is the prob­lem of families and spouses that just cannot cover the costs," he continued. "A grad­uate studont who ·is married. with two children, can expect to pay up to $4,000 in health care costs. Since the average graduate stipend is only $10,000, that is 40 percent of income before taxes. [The health care cost] is prohibitive­ly high." 
Coshow worked as the chair of the Quality of Life Committee, whose main focus was health care. She also is the graduate student represen­tative on the University com­mittee for Graduate Student Health-related Concerns. 
In an effort to illustrate how important this issue is, De Haan said, "I am sure that Suzanne [Coshow] would agree that the main concern is to find a health care plan that is all­inclusive for spouses and chil­dren and to make sure that no one slips through the cracks, especially not the children." 

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION '97 
• 
Over 300 courses in • One-ro eight-week 44 departments courses available 

• 
Everything you need • A wide variety of ro catch up, get humanities courses ahead, or study 


• I nrensive course 
something new sequences in eight 

• Day and evening classes languages 
• Smaller class • Northwestern's fitness SIZeS and aquatics center 
SUMMER BETTER THAN OTHERS 
• 
Five field studies programs 

• 
Summer in Chicago -Chicago Blues Festival -Chicago Gospel Festival 


-Taste of Chicago -Chicago Jazz Festival 
• Five study abroad 
page 5 

The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 
Thursday, March 27, 1997 



SMC students in search of 'the perfect room' 
By RACHEL TORRES 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College students found themselves under a dif­ferent kind of stress this past week as their attention focused on the room selection process. 
Students could be found wan­dering the halls in search of the "perfect room" as the dead­line to actually select their room quickly approached. 
New additions to the housing policy this year aimed at reduc­ing the amount of students who misuse the system. A housing committee was also implement­ed to allow for student input in any changes that may occur. 
In accordance with the changes that were made, stu­dents are no longer allowed to switch roommates until the first day of classes. This new policy intends to curb the amount of students who volun­teer to live with people just to 
Do You Assume the Risk ofGoing to College?!? 
The Journal ofCollege and University Law 
~~Notre Dame Law School 
Presents 


Robert Bickel & Peter Lake 
speaking on the doctrine of 
In Loco Parentis 
April 4, 1997 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 
use a good number. In addi­tion, waiting lists may not begin for alternate housing until the first day of classes. If students are not happy with their room choice, they must wait until fall semester starts to make changes. 
The uncertainty surrounding room picks is a part of life for Saint Mary's students each spring. This year was no exception. 
The room selection process provides each student interest­ed in living on campus with a random number with which to choose her room for the follow­ing year. 
After paying the required $250 room deposit by Feb. 20, each student is given a random number on March 4 to use in the lottery system of selecting rooms. 
In the time between acquir­ing the number and the actual pick of the room from March 24-26, the Saint Mary's student sits.in wonder. It is almost impossible to know if the stu­dent's desired room will be taken or will remain open when it is her turn to select. 
On the night of room picks, the lobby of LeMans Hall is filled with anxious students. An amplifier system is used to announce the numbers and begin the actual selection process. 
Students then move through the housing office and are asked to show their identifica­tion cards and room deposit slips at various points.. As rooms are taken, members of the Residence Life and Housing Staff announce them to keep the students updated. 
"It functions like a well-oiled 

The Observer/Kimm Michalik 
A housing committee was introduced this year to increase student 
input in operation of room picks, in an attempt to alleviate hassles. 
machine," said LeMans Hall Posted in the LeMans Hall director Jill Aitchison. lobby, along with the lottery 
The housing policy allows numbers, are maps of the resi­students to move between resi-dence halls which indicate the dence halls. For example, if a number of rooms and the occu­student lives in Holy Cross Hall pancy of each. Using this infor­one year, she is free to live in mation as a valuable resource, LeMans Hall the next year if Saint Mary's students peruse she chooses. the halls for days preceding the 
The trick to this policy is to room picks. get a good enough room pick "We had three groups of visi­number to better a student's tors to this room already chances of living not onlyin the today," junior Beth Lang com­room she wants, but in the hall mented. she wants as well. With room picks behind 
"Once we know where our them, Saint Mary's students 
friends are going to live, it's can only wait for the fall 
easier to pick a room because semester to begin, and hope 
we limit ourselves to that hall," that they made the right deci­
said junior Jen Nelson. sions. 
CONGRATULATIONS~ 
'Please warmly welcome 
HUMPHREY BOHAN ANNETTE BRAWLEY MISSY BYERLY JULIE CARVER MACKENZIE COXE CINDY DUBELL CHRISTY FISHER LORA GREEN JEFF HULL 
TROY LEO ERIN LUM JAY MANNLE CATHY MCGINNIS AMY MCINTOSH SHARI NEMETH KRISTEN O'CONNOR PEDRO REYES BRENDA RIOS 
JOSHUA SIMS ANDREA SINCLAIR MELISSA WEBER NAYDA WHITE KIM YONKOF 
Into the Catholic Christian community! 
These members ofthe Notre Dame famib,; will receive the Sacraments ofInitiation or be received into .full Communion ar the Easter Vigil Basilica ofthe Sacred J[eart 

9:00p.m. Saturdav. March 29.1997 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 27, 1997 


The Triduum Begins ... 
Even though we are baptized, what we constantly lose and betray is precisely 
that which we received at baptism. Therefore Easter is our return every year to 
our own baptism, whereas Lent is our preparation for that return -the slow and 
sustained effort to perform, at the end, our own "passage" or "pascha" into new 
life in Christ ... Each year Lent and Easter are, once again, the rediscovery and , the recovery by us ofwhat we were made through our own baptismal death 
and resurrection. 
Alexander Schmemann 
I don't remember the day when I decided to be a Catholic ... and I don't mean the day of my baptism in the first few weeks of my life. I didn't decide that... my parents did. I remember long ago envying those who converted to Catholicism because it occurred to me that they had a choice, 'and I didn't feel like I did. Until I realized that the choice was mine, to claim it or not... to profess and live my Catholic faith, or not. I don't remember a particular day on which I said, as an adult, I want to be a Catholic, I want to follow Jesus. And yet I have, most assured­ly... and do. Somewhere along the line, the renewal of my baptismal promise became my own. Somewhere along the line I realized that I do believe in the God of]esus Christ and in the God in Jesus Christ ... call it grace, or bum luck ... all I know is that I believe. My faith in this God is so real that I want to celebrate it ... even the worst of it ... because the worst of it, the crucifixion and death ofJesus, is, paradoxically, the best of it. Our very salvation is tied up in it. We commemorate this great salvific event liturgically in the Triduum. 
Much can be said about the Triduum, those days which embrace the Pascal Mystery. "Triduum" in the Latin simply in'eans "a space of three days," bur as it is used in the Christian tradition it is meant to signifY the three days prior to Easter Sunday: Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday. The words of the tradi­tion and of the present liturgical books convey the intensity and unity of the hours around the Vigil. These days call us to fast and pray, to keep watch, and to enter into the holy mysteries of Christ's passion, death and resurrection. We come face to face with the very reality of our own lives, our own dying and rising. Our oneness with Jesus as members of his body, our oneness with each other, and our oneness in the death and resurrection ofJesus is ritualized in the liturgies of the Triduum and realized in our participation in them, and in our very lives as Christians. 
It is during the Easter Vigil that we as a community initiate and welcome into full communion those who have, as adults, chosen to join the Catholic Church. They have been preparing for the past several months through the Rite of Christian Initiation ofAdults (RCIA). Twelve will be baptized and eleven others will be received into full communion with the Catholic faith from other Christian traditions. I include their names here so that you might remember them in prayer in the days ahead: 
Humphrey Bohan  Missy Byerly  
Annette Brawley  Cindy Dubell  
Julie Carver  Lora Green  

Mackenzie Coxe Jeff Hull 
Christy Fisher Erin Lum 
Troy Leo Jay Mannie 
Cathy McGinnis Amy Mcintosh 
Brenda Rios Shari Nemeth 
Joshua Sims Kristen O'Connor 
Andrea Sinclair Pedro Reyes 
Melissa Weber KimYonkof 
Nayda White 
These are important days for all of us. Days during which each of us stands alone before God to renew our commitment. It is an opportunity for us as adult Christians to say yet again, "Yes, I believe!" It is an opportunity for us as a commu­nity as well to stand side by side in our shared commitment to live the call ofJesus, to rededicate ourselves to that call, and to build the Kingdom together. Please join with me in the days ahead in celebrating the glory and greatness of these days, whether it be at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Church of Loretto, a residence hall chapel, or at your home parish. We join with the whole Church not only in remembering the events ofJesus's passion, death and resurrection, bur, as the Body ofChrist, we ourselves partake in them even now that they might transform our very lives. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
0MPUS 

MINISTRY 


Thursday, March 27, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• ENGLAND • CHINA 
IRA bombs English.railway Gore_ hope~~"'!~te,~~~ 
By SUE LEEMAN . > ;o, tam whether the exploswns VP: ChIna of ~he relationship b~twe~n the Assomted Press Wnrer .. ' ··•' i' were caused by bombs. . Umted States and Chma,' Gore The most recent IRA bombmg • said at a news conference. LONDON in England was June 1~ ..when may Improve He was heading Thursday to Twin blasts tore up rail track a 3,000-pound bomb lllJured «:ian and Shanghai, then end-
and damaged key signaling 
200 p~ople (}nd damaged 300 human rightS ing a weeklong Asia trip byequipment early today in the shops m Manchester. updating South Korea leaders northern English town of On Oct. 7, the IRA detonated By JOHN KING on his talks with the Chinese. 
Wilmslow, hours after a tele­
two c~r bomQS inside Briti~h Associated Press Writer Gore's upbeat assessment of 
phone warning from a man 
army s headquar.te.rs Ill U.S.-China relations will be putclaiming to represent the IRA. Nor~hern I~e~a~d, kiih~~ .one BEIJING to the test in the comingWhile no casualties were soldier and lllJunng 40 CIVIlians After two days of intensive months. Both the Clinton 
reported, the explosions caused 
and s.oldier~. talks, Vice President AI Gore administration and the many
serious rail service disruptions 
Ma~or sa~d he .hoped. the IRA said China is promising greater critics of its China policy will in the north of England. The and Its alh~d Smn Fem Par~y access to its look for tangible evidence that blasts took place a day after were. not gomg .to conduct their markets and China is living up to its promise Scotland Yard warned of the electron campargn at the ballot 1is t e n in g to become a more reliable part-increased possibility of attacks box in British-ruled Northern with a "more ner. by the Irish Republican Army in Ireland and with bombs in receptive· • Additionally, allegations that 
the runup to Britain's May 1 
mainland Britain. ear to U.S. China tried to funnel moneygeneral election. Opposition leader Tony Blair, c0 m p 1 a in ts illegally into U.S. elections last 
Prime Minister John Major whose Labor Party is leading in about its year threaten to undermine called the explosions at opinion polls, said no British h u m a n public support for the Clinton Wilmslow, a major signaling government will be intimidated r i g h t s administration's overtures. 
center for trains that is 160 
by "such outrages." record. Gore Gore said he told the Chinese 
miles northwest of London, an tion to train service from 
He also warned that the IRA's Gore called Wednesday's that the allegations alone won't "insult to democracy at the Scotland to London and chances of joining the democra-talks with President Jiang chill recently warming rela­
start of the general election 
throughout northern England. tic process "diminished with Zemin and Premier Li Peng tions. But it "would be serious campaign." Wilmslow is on the west coast every bomb and bullet." "productive, friendly, search-indeed" if a federal investiga-
Greater Manchester police 
line from Manchester to The day after the 1992 elec-ing" and said they elevated tion turned up solid proof of 
said the explosions caused London. 
tion, the IRA planted two bombs U.S.-China relations to a new the charges, Gore said he told extensive damage and disrup-
Police said they were uncer-in London. level of trust. Li. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Gore o~ered no specifics, Earlier, an administration 


THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 
ARE PLEASED TO PRESENT 
lAC AND EBSCO DATABASES 
. The University Libraries invite you to search our two new web-based databases. Th-e Information Access Company (lAC) and the EBSCO databases provide the researcher with access to information in the areas of business, sociology, psychology and other fields. In addition, newspaper articles, Books In Print, general and academic periodical indexes--including some full-text articles--can all be accessed via lAC and EBSCO. 
After searching lAC or EBSCO, the Libraries would appreciate your feedback in two areas: the coverage and content ofthe indexes and the access software and its features. Both databases can be reached through the Libraries' homepage, which provides an e-mail link for your comments. 
The URL is: 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibs/iac.htm 
however, and America's lead-official said Gore did not raise ers have heard such promises the prospect of repercussions if before. The have often come evidence of Chinese interfer­away convinced they had won ence surfaced, but Gore was Chinese concessions, only to emphatic that he had. complain later that Beijing was Gore's journey to China not keeping its end of the deal. underscored the delicate bal-
Jiang had this to say of the ance he must maintain to highest-level U.S. visit to China remain a loyal Clinton lieu­since the Tiananmen crack-tenant while thinking ahead to down: "The past few days have his own presidential campaign been productive." in three years. 
"Good afternoon," the presi-On Tuesday, for example, dent said in English as they Gore reveled in announcements started their talks with an that Boeing Co. and General energetic hand shake. Motors Corp. were signing 
"I think we have done some lucrative new deals with the good work here on behalf of Chinese. 





Happy Birthday WOZ! 
~~ ~~ 
~~23" 




A long tinte ago, in a galaxy not so far away... 
youwere just a tyke scrambling home four times a year 
with a hand-written report card scrawled out by a cranky teacher. Fifteen years later those report cards are tucked away in a file drawer, a relic of the old days. 
F
OR some, the "old way" is the best way. But for one small Catholic school in· Pittsburgh, the old way is hardly efficient. Their teachers are tired of hand-writing report cards. They need a computer system and they need you to help them. 
T
HE Irish Connection is a group of Notre Dame students who have decided to assist them with fundraising, publicity, planning, purchasing, installation and curriculum development. ..and whatever else you can come up with. 
"\1 THY should you help? If you are a student or faculty member who is a Web-type VV person, into public relations, elementary education or are interested in donating your time or money, please contact Bryan Meyer, via e-mail by Friday, April4. 


The e ishH Connection 
Bringing the.future to education 
Bryan Meyer Coordinator 
(219) 273-2812 
or E-Mail to: lrish@ap.observer.nd.edu 
And may the force be with you. 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 27, 1997 
• WEST BANK 

Palestinians reject U.S. presence in peace talks 
Stepan 
continued from page 1 
slight delays may occur due to inclement weather. 
Center Line is also working at other locations on campus, including the site of the new Rec Sports office where the Jake Kline Field was formerly located next the Joyce Center, and the site of the new Bookstore Visitor Center between Keough and Welsh Halls. 
The construction opposite the Stepan basketball courts, on the south side of Holy Cross Drive is a continuation of the transformation of Planner and Grace Halls from dormitories to office/administration build­ings. 
Ziolkowski Construction, Inc. of South Bend is constructing two new drives on the south sides of both Grace and Flanner to function as pick­up/drop-off locations, similar to that by the east entrance to the library. 
No definite date has been given as to when construction is expected to be complete. 

wis es to congratulate the women's basketball team for reaching the NCAA Final Four. Good luck on Friday against Tennessee! 
The game will be televised on ESPN. 
• ./ Used, rare and out-d-print books Initial cost of $2.00 
Nationally -circulated ad 
Success rate of 50'/o Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six 
T 
Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne SoLidi Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job searcl1 in National Par1<s, Forests, and Wildl~e Preserves. Learn from the #1 Source that uncovers hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
ExceUent Beneftts 



By NICOLAS TATRO Associated Press Writer 
JEHUSALEM 
A new U.S. peace mission received a frosty response from Palestinians today, with protesters burning U.S. flags and negotiators saying the effort would fail if President Clinton's envoy 
,..,.-......,r-:-------:.__, did not call Israel to 1:_,...,;.?­order. 
In the West Bank, 20 Palestinians were struck by rubber bullets when hundreds of protesters briefly overran an Israeli checkpoint on the out-l>.l.JIUI._,___ skirts of the autonomous Arafat West Bank town of Ramallah. One of the injured was bleeding profusely from a neck wound when rushed away by paramedics. 
The Palestinians demand a halt to Israel's construction of a Jewish neighbor­hood in disputed east Jerusalem. Israel, in turn, insists that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat halt stone-throwing protests and rein in Islamic militants. 
Clinton's Mideast envoy, Dennis Ross, headed to the region today. U.S. adminis­tration sources say Hoss will meet tonight in Rabat, Morocco, with Arafat, who agreed to cut short his Asian visit and fly back for the talks following a phone call from Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. 
Israel army radio said Hoss will follow up his meeting with Arafat by holding talks Friday with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
ADVERTISEMENT 
V•VARSITY C•CLUB !•INTRAMURAL 
Hoss, a painstaking mediator. faces per­haps his most diflicult mission yet in trying to bridge the gap and calm the violence that is eroding the peace process. 
A suicide-bomb attack claimed by Islamic militants killed three Israeli women in Tel Aviv on Friday and stone-throwing riots have plagued the West Bank for the past week. • 
However, there were signs that Arafat was moving to lower the tensions ahead of Hoss' visit. 
In Hamallah, dozens of Palestinian police struggled to keep demonstrators -some carrying firebombs -from Israeli soldiers. About 200 protesters reached Israeli-con­trolled territory. where the Palestinian police could not follow, and at one point unfurled a Palestinian flag over a sign marking the Israeli zone. 
The protesters hurled stones at the Israelis, who responded with rubber bul­lets and tear gas, and fired live ammuni­tion in the air. Besides the injured, 32 were treated for gas inhalation. 
Most of the Palestinians were pushed back into autonomous territory by night­fall, about two hours later. 
In Bethlehem, Palestinian police formed a human chain today to keep dozens of Palestinian protesters away from Israeli troops guarding an Israeli enclave in the city. 
Palestinian police let the crowd burn Israeli and U.S. nags, and several young men broke through the cordon and hurled stones. 
However. the police efforts were in sharp contrast to previous days, when officers did nothing to stop the riots. 
Arafat's West Bank· security chief. Jibril Rajoub, supervised crowd control, shouting at the demonstrators to move back and ordering his bodyguards to help the police. 
The chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat. said a Ross mission would only produce results if the envoy focused on substance, rather than procedure, such as arranging a summit between Arafat and Netanyahu. 
Erekat said Israel violated the peace accords by starting construction of a Jewish neighborhood in east Jerusalem, the sector the Palestinians claim as a future capital. 
"We want Mr. Ross to respect the signa­ture df Mr. Clinton on the (peace) agree­ment and to stand up and clearly tell the bulldozers to stop," Ere kat told the Palestinian legislative council. 
Also today, a top PLO official compared Netanyahu, who ordered the construction to begin, to Adolf Hitler. 
"Netanyahu resembles Hitler in his arro­gant, vainglorious and rigid behavior," said Farouk Kaddoumi, head of the PLO's politi­cal bureau in Tunisia. "lie refuses to ... fol­low the peaceful means to solve the Middle East peace process." 
Ross spent weeks mediating between Israel and the Palestinians on an Israeli withdrawal from most of the West Bank town of Hebron in January. 
David Bar-Illan, a senior Netanyahu aide, said Arafat was using violence as a tactic to pressure Israel and must instead signal Islamic militants that he will not allow any more terror attacks. 
LOOKING FOR A SIMPLER FINANCIAL CHOICE? Take the Direct Route with Direct Deposit and No..Fee Checking. Oon,t get lost in a maze of requirements and endless fees. At NDFCU, we make it simple and affordable. 
• 
No~FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIRED 


• No PER~CHECK CHARGE 
• 0VERDRAIT PROTECTION AVAILABLE 
A Better Choice to Make (219) 239.-6611 or (800) 522.-6611 
Independent of the University  
r~ NOTRE DAME ~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  ----·11000110 ____NCUA... __  

LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW THE TIME AND LOCATION OF YOUR EVENTS FOR NEXT MONTH. REACH HER AT COLLEEN.HENSHAW@NIKE.COM 
29 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL/V M/W TRACK/V 
AT SETON HALL AT SUN DEVIL INVIT. 
11:00 AM TEMPE, AZ 
MEN'S BASEBALL/V M/W TRACK/V 
AT UCONN, NOON AT PURDUE INVIT. 
W/M lACROSSEN WOMEN'S TENNlSN 
VS. HOBART VS. PURDUE MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD ECK TENNIS PAVILION 1:00/2:00 PM 1:00PM 
30 
DON'T MISS••• TOMORROW 
MEN'S BASEBALL/V AT ST. JOHN'S NOON 
WOMEN'S TENNIS/V AT TENNESSEE 2:00PM 
THE GOA.l OF SPORTSWEEKEND IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS SCHEDULE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP 

----------~---------------------------~~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 






VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 27, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergasr 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
As5istant Managing Editor 

Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint. Editor ..................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager .......................... Wendy Klare Sports Editor ................................ Mike Day Production Manager .........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ............. : .......... Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adm.inistration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Ediwr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediwr, News Editor. Vicwpoinr Ediror, Sporrs Ediror, Accenr Ediwr, Saint Mary's Ediror, Phow Ediwr, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, lcners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is avai1able ro alJ members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and co all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4 541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

page 9 


Are students ,at Notre Dame really snobs? 
My roommate used to tell me stories from back home: when people he knew asked where he was going to school, he would of course reply "Notre Dame." To this, the most common response was "The REAL one?" 
No. The other Notre Dame. 
Mick Swiney 

I know what he's talking about. I call it the Wow Effect. Do you know it? When you tell people from high school that you go to Notre Dame, do their eyes widen and do they say "Wow" or "Really?" They must mean something like, "You must really be hot stuffi" 
Believe it or not, this attitude caught me completely by surprise -I suppose I went through my life thinking that it was just my family who was ga-ga over Notre Dame. I must have thought we were just freaks of nature when I received Knute Rockne picture books and bookstore apparel at every gift-giv­ing holiday. I must have thought my grandfather just had a really good memory when he could rattle off the favorite colors of every NO football player since World War II. 
It wasn't until I lived in Chicago for a while that I found out my family wasn't the only one -there are more people out there than you think who have framed pictures of Lou Holtz, who glue themselves to the TV set every football Saturday, who want to shake your hand if you've ever so much as set foot on campus. 
It wasn't until I started going here that I found out: just about everybody loves Notre Dame. 
No big wonder, I guess, since it's not something you find in everyday conver­sation ("Hi, I'm Mick. Do you like Notre Dame?"). It wasn't until I started telling people where I'd been since August that I discovered the Wow Effect. 
Why didn't I see it coming? After all, we've got everything people think about when they hear the phrase "college experience." You don't have to look hard to find it-I saw it last Friday (the first REAL day of spring) when I roamed the campus and saw students milling about the quads in shorts and t­shirts, throwing footballs and frisbees, playing catch and ... that game with those sticks with basketball hoops tied to them. 
I walked around the .campus that day and thought, what a beautiful commu­nity. I walked around the lakes and marveled at the way the Dome shone in the sunlight. I thought about the strong religious values ever-present at Notre Dame; I thought about the place of hard work in its classrooms. There's some­thing very American about this place, and it certainly embodies all the things prospective college students are in search of when they start filling out applications. 
If I stopped to think about it, I might even go so far as to suggest" that Notre Dame is the perfect university. Anyone would want to come here, and most do. 
But here's where we get into prob­lems ... WE got in. 
It wasn't easy. Some of us worked hard in high school with the express purpose of coming here, while some simply worked and decided to attend later. But we all have one thing in com­mon -we had to beat people to get in, and we did. For whatever reason, we were kept while others were turned away. 
This is what I see in people's eyes when I tell them I go to Notre Dame. It makes me want to puke. It's gotten so bad that I try to avoid the question of where I go to school. 

What on Earth is wrong with me, you ask? Why am I not proud that I go to such a ... "prestigious" university? 
Because I'm sick of being categorized. I'm sick of people automatically ascribing me to some "upper class" within the student population of the world. I'm not better than anyone else; I have the same concerns, hopes, anxi­eties, dreams and ideals of any college student from Harvard to the local com­munity college. I didn't come to college to be placed atop some supposed hier­archy of studenthood -I came to learn, to finish my transition from childhood to adulthood on a hopeful note, spiced by a zeal for life and a desire to better the world by my presence. I didn't see that as a right given only to those who can 
I
'm sick of people automati­cally ascribing me to some 'upper class' within the stu­dent population of the world. I'm not better than anyone else; I have the same con­cerns, hopes, anxieties, dreams and ideals of any col­lege student. 
pass the admissions board and pay the Research University prices. 
After all, college is the only time in our lives where we'll all be on the same level. This is a most important and unique developmental stage ... it shouldn't be marred by something as sordid as a "class system." 
But this seems to be the consensus of the outside world, and sometimes -God help me -I see it within the Notre Dame community. We're better. We'll make more money. We'll be more "educated." We'll be able to have high­society tea parties, smoke our pipes and say, "Oh yes, old boy, I remember when I was at Notre Dame ...." 
I don't want it. I refuse to go to a school for upper-class snobs. 
But before you indignantly tell me to start packing my bags, let me most vehemently assert that I DON'T. I know these students of Notre Dame ... I know them as idealists, hopeful and hard­working people who are eager to roll up their sleeves and plunge into the "real world," ready to tackle any problem, any issue with a clarity of heart and a strength of moral conviction. 
I know these students, and the fact that we, our school, and our very tradi­tion represent the "American Dream" for a great many people outside our close community. 
So what does all of this mean? This is Notre Dame -not, Harvard, not Yale, not Stanford -and thank God. This isn't an upper-class snob fac­tory. This is a university founded not on ideals of superiority or economic excess but on diligence, community ser­vice; and loyalty to our faith. But the only people who can keep it that way is the student body. We must always remember that we didn't come here for the Wow Effect or the fat future salary, but so that we may spread the spirit and dedication which brought us here. We must always remember that tradition does not mean exclusion; high quality does not mean superiority. And the one thing which we must remember at all costs is this: we don't go to Notre Dame because we're better thim anyone else. We go here because we're luckier. 
Mick Swiney is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 


page 10 


nick cave and the bad seeds 
Boatman's Call 
tc~~t( 
(out of five stars) 
T
he previous album offered to us by this particular ensemble was one of the most 
memorable in recent years; "Murder 
Ballads" combined wonderful song writing with an ironic, humorous audacity sadly almost absent from the music industry. Now Nick Cave returns with an album of an entirely different type -introspective and refined; Cave has gone back to the less violent side of the human psyche and explores both himself and his relationship with others. 
This includes his relationship with God, and thus an album tinged with spiritualism arises, almost necessarily one might say, from the nihilism of what came before. Ilere we witness quotations from Kant, "the starry heavens above me and the moral law within," and a plenitude of references to the divine and the good. Such a direction is testimony to Cave's desire not to be typecast and to engage without reticence what­ever occupies him at any given moment. 
Once again, however. there is an underlying darkness to some of the songs. "West Country Girl" is the best of the album and also the most 
Thursday, March 27, 1997 


• CLASSICAL COLUMN 




Were you there? 
By JULIE BRUBAKER 
and MICHAEL ANDERSON 

Most of us think of Easter as a very spiritual time, a chance to reflect on God's love for us. Others of us think of Easter as a time for candy, where an oversized rabbit hops to bring eggs and baskets of cheer. But does anyone think of Easter as a musical season?. Adrhittedly, music. .h> not tile tir~t thing one thinks aboutwhe · ring E~ster. Ii9"Y~S~r. :rn~sic is an integral part o . .. .. . season; HolyWeeki'alid Easter~ 
One of the binding f'()rces.of the many Christi-ins partkipat~ ing in this week's activities will certainly be the gift of song ­in particular, time~honored hymns. 
From the earliest days of the church, hymn-singing has been an integral part of Christian worship. In the book of Acts, we !md Paul and Silas "singing hymns to God" (Acts 
16:25) while chained in the Philip pian jail. 
Singing hymns has been an important means. for teaching Christian beliefs in, ll: c})'p~~h that was largelyilU~erate. But hymns are more tlll1njl!:st!'tway of disseminating lfno~lf34ge; they are opportun~ti~~ !9~ ><tll believ~rs ·to ~xpr~ss. p,r~dse to their God. .· ·····•.····· .•·.·•······ ··· ·, · ,·•··· ··. · ·· · 
Many of the survivfug'Christian hymns, some niore than six centuries old, have very interesting origins. We thought it might be appropriate to recount some of the great hymns and their histories, not just ofthis Lenten season, but of all time. 
We begin with "What Wondrous Love is This?" The tune is classified as an American folk hymn to which no author has been attributed. The origin of the folk hymn was Appalachia and has been passed dQwn through many generations, exist· ing in several version~;, . 
"What Wondrous Love is This"·is most notable for its ·use of a melody in the. elassit::&-llJorian mode, which gives it a cer· tain lack of finality th~t our Western ears are not used to. Tllis lack of melodic defihition is a wonderful description of the text which addresses the question of ages for Christians: What made Him do it? What made Him do it for me? 
Another great hymn of the season is "Crown Him with Many Crowns." This hymn has two authors, Matthew Bridges and Godfrey Thring and was written in the 19thcentury. Interestingly enough, history tells .us that the two authors never met. 
Bridges converted to Catholicism when he Was 48 and wrote the hymn originally under the title. "The $ong of the Seraphs.'' Thirty years later, Thring, an Anglican Clergyman, felt the original hymn was missing a verse on the Resurrection and was thus motivated to add several stanzas to it. 
A Protestant favorite is "Blessed Assurance, Jesus is Mine," authored by AmericanFanny Jane Crosby (1820-1915). Crosby wrote an astounding 8,000 hymns and used more than 200 pen names hl~!flifetinie. She was r . d t9write three hymns··per~a~~ ~prescriberlhy ,he t'!i*··,a·· music publisher. i liete's another catch: she from birth. 
The tune of what became ''Blessed Assurance" was actually composed by Phoebe.Knapp, who was married to the founder of Metlife Insurance Company. Knapp brought the tune to Crosby in 1873. Crosby begged Knapp to play the tune sever­al times. Then the blind woman, kneeling beside. the organ exclaimed, "That·says. 'Blessed assurance, JeSIJSjs·mine!· 0 what a foretaste ofglory divine!''' 
Joel Cummins; w wti keyboard Pill,. 
Bob. has a grea~ p weJearnf~d) f~r Cross." Well Joehd now that 'The was written jus{ a> outsfrom South 13 ·. .. . . . on, Michigan? The author George Bennard (1873·l958) was originally a member ofthe Salvation Army and later became ordained in the Methodist Episcopal Church. .. 
Brubaker's pick: "Were You There When They Crucified My Lord?" -This traditional Lenten hymn comes to us fNm the great African-American spiritual collection. Smne say that spirituals were· ''passwords" calling slaves to secret, forbidden 
worship meetings: < ..·. ,..· . . . . . . . ··. ... >< ••• .. · •..·.... ·• "Were You There'' \yaslikely "developed''intheearlyl?OOs by African-American ~laves. Coronion to all spiritmtls, the words are gripping, and the central theme has an .emotional appeaL .· .• Anderson's pick: ''Jesus Christ is Risen Today" ....,.This hymn is an Easter staple for a multitude of denominations across America. lnterestingly, the tune is from a Latin hymn from the 14th century, but prolific hymn composer, Charles 
Wesley (1708-1788}, seUt to English text andre-harmonized it Wesley's hroth~.r John is credited w~th 
the Methodist church; · · · . > ·· 
Chances are you r one ofthese won the next few days. <Hopefully, you will appreciate • how these type of songs have helped bind communities of believers for centuries. 
skeleton key 
Fantastic Spikes Through Balloon 
~n"r ~etc{. 
(out of five stars) 
R
ecently I died. I was barreling down the toll-road cranking Skeleton Key's major label debut, Fantastic Spikes Through Balloon, out of my Honda's six-speaker stereo system. Pouncing in my bucket seat, flail­ing my arms to the groove -I was boogeying so hard I had to undo my seatbelt, as the music forced through my eardrums like a tongue in a wad of gum. Pretty soon I was head-thrashing to track two, and I bounced my Civic into an overpass. 
Brent: "What did you do that for?" 
God: "I had to tell you about'Skcleton Key." 
Brent: "They're gosh darn incredible!" 
God: "Yeah, well, I wanted to form a rock group that combined all the elements of the best bands pushing the pop envelope." 
Brent: "Hats off! Skeleton Key reminds me of Primus and Brainiac and Jon Spencer and Prince and Jawbox all rolled into one." 
God: "Exactly! I knew there was a reason I made you a music critic. Didn't you dig that back alley, post-apocalyptical percussion?" 
Brent: "Sure did. Hick Lee beats like a monkey menacing; in this song infused with sadness aud regret, Cave reaches Lhe peak of his profundity. One cannot help feeling, however, that this edge is missing from many of the other tracks, and thus there is an inconsistency which, although not fatal, entails that the level of achievement represented by "Murder Ballads" is not matched. Those who enjoy Cave's work will no doubt gain great pleasure from The Boatman's Call; with a slow tempo it docs create a lasting mood suitable for late nights and early mornings. But, on the other hand, those who require an introduction to Cave and his Bad Seeds will need to listen to this in parallel with his previous album. In such a way will his greatest talents be most fully revealed. 
by Julian Elliott 


Courtesy of Capitol Records 
on his drumset that he hand-built with garbage cans, a red wagon, a woodblock and other stuff you'd lind in Sanford and Sons' front yard." 
God: "Not to mention the subterranean bass and angular guitar. I want you to go back and spread the word on Skeleton Key! Tell everyone about the funky pop guitar mayhem. And don't forget to mention the brilliant CD packaging!" 
I felt a tremendous weight tug on my innards as I fell back to earth and into my twisted body. The wheels were still spinning on my crumpled, overturned compact, and the stereo had skipped ahead to the catchy-as-a-rusty-nail "The World's Most Famous Undertaker." My feet began to tap to life to the primal beat of Skeleton Key. A voice ripped through my mind, "Brent! Remember ... it's the new wave of rock and roll!" 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 


Whatever & ever Amen 
2. Mighty Mighty Bosstones 

-Let's face it 
3. Beck -Odelay 
4. Prodigy -4-track Sampler 
5. Mundy -jelly legs 
2. Mighty Mighty Bosstones 


-Let's face it 
3. 
Pavement -Brighten the Corners 

4. 
Suburbia Soundtrack 

5. 
Built to Spill -Perfect from now on 



Thursday, March 27, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• BASEBALL 



Stellar pitching carries Irish 
By BRIAN REINTHALER "I think I had a little bit of Mainieri, "I think he can be a Assistant Sports Editor pop in my pitches tonight," lot better. He is only a sopho­commented the right-hander, more now. When he gets Irish bats _were popping at "and I was able to get my (greater) command of his 
Frank Eck Stadium once again curve over. The key to getting pitches, he's really going to be last night, but it was the pitch­strikeouts is being able to spot something." ers who put on the real show my fastball." Lidge was not the only pitch­as Notre Dame dominated Lidge fanned 10 Golden er to make an impression on 
.. 
Northeastern Illinois 11-4. , Eagles and walked just two, the coach last night. In fact, it 
Sophomore Brad Lidge took while scattering three runs on was junior right-hander Dan the hill for the Blue and Gold, three hits. Stavisky who stole the show. and in five innings of work, Notre Dame head coach Paul Stavisky finished last season became the fourth Irish pitcher Mainieri thinks that Lidge's as one of Notre Dame's best in the 1990s to ring up 10 or best is yet to come. pitchers, but has been having 
more batters in a game. "Believe it or not," remarked trouble finding his groove in 1997. Yesterday represented the hurler's first appearance since the third game of the season against Mississippi. 
Coach Mainieri acknowl­edged Stavisky's determination despite the tough times. 
"He has been trying so hard," said Mainieri, "to get back to the form he was in last year." 
If his performance against 
N.E. Illinois is any indication, he is well on his way. Stavisky displayed control and poise as he handled the Golden Eagle lineup over the course of three innings. 
After catching the first batter he faced looking, sophomore Chris Reehoff took him over the fence in left field to cut the Irish lead to 10-4. Stavisky shook off the mistake and pro­ceeded to shut down the visi­tors for the next 2 2/3 innings. 
"That (Stavisky's outing) was the highlight of the evening for us," stated Mainieri. "The guys on the bench were really excited to see Dan back out there." 
Senior Mike Amrhein contin­ued to shine at the plate for Notre Dame as he extended his hitting streak to 16 games by belting an off speed pitch well over the 401 foot sign in cen­terfield.
Brad Lidge fanned 10 Northeastern Illinois batters in five innings' work. 
"I've just been trying to stay focused," said the Irish catch­er. "Catching has helped me a lot from a physical standpoint. I have been seeing the ball real well." 


Centerfielder Randall Brooks must have also been seeing the ball pretty well last night as he tied Amrhein for the team lead in RBI for the game with three. The senior continued to show signs that his hitting is coming around, going two for five with a double. 
"Brooks got a big hit tonight," noted Mainieri. "That's what our leaders (Amrhein and Brooks) need to do." 
Mainieri was a little worried about the consistency of the of­fense after last weekend, but 
believed it would eventually show up. 
"We just really needed to do that (put together back-to-hack strong hitting games),'! said the coach. "They have contin­ued to work really hard on their hitting this year. They are now starting to swing the bats better." 
Mainieri and the Irish hope the combination of consistent offensive output and solid pitching continues when they close out their three-game homestand against Central Michigan this evening. The team will·head back to the east coast this weekend to play important conference double­headers versus Connecticut and St. John's. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
ILOST & FO~ND I  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Learn how students can earn up to  Paid Record Label Internship: Red Ant seeks marketing reps in South Bend who love alt./rock music. 10­ IBM Computer For Sale Includes:  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  OPEN ADOPTION continuing contact with your child. visits, photographs, more.  
$2,850/mo + benefits (room &  20hrs/wk, working w/record stores,  *Modem  The highest quality color copies  Tom & Tammy, South Bend.  
LOST: String of pearls and a cross  board). Call Alaska Information  lifestyle stores, colleges, artists.  *Microsoft Office  are now available at  1-800-484-1607code:9883  
between Hesburgh Library and the  Services: 206-971-351.4, xA55841.  Call Rob Ossorio Toll Free 1-888­ *3 1/2 and 5 1/4 Drives  THE COPY SHOP  
Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Call  RED-ANTS.  In Perfect Shape-Great for  LaFortune Student Center  J-looking forward to the trip  
Dolores at 1-5729 or 234-7287.  College Students! Call 273-9747  Phone 631-COPY  love, wicket  
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in  FOR RENT  Price Negotiable.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  LittleJ.­ 
my name written in gold on the  fisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare!  219-291-7153  You are my sunshine.  
cover. Extremely important infor­ Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  Near Campus  PC Laptop: Award winning Winbook  Welcome to ND. Maybe you'll actu­ ")­ 
mation inside. I really need it!  Call (919)918-7767, ext. A154.  Homes for 97-98  XP, 486DX4 75, 540Mb HD, 8Mb  ally be a student here someday.  
Please call Tara at 4-1291  232-2595  RAM, 1Mb VRAM 256 color 1 0.4"  Tired of the caffeine high? Are your  Thanks for fitting me into your busy  
Dual Scan, 14.4 bps Modem, 2  studies draining you? Want to  schedule.  
LOST/STOLEN: computer disk with  CRUISE LINES HIRING- New 5 bedroom home, two bath,  PCI/MCA slots. Win 95 & Office 95.  increase your mental clarity, focus  Hugs, kisses.  
label "Marketing Club" plus some  Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free  two car garage. Central air, dish- Less than 1 year old, wonderful  and endurance? You are a phone  Beatrice  
various papers. Possibly in Library  world travel (Europe, Caribbean,  washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker,  system for fun and serious work.  call away from changing your entire  
on Wednesday 3/19. Please call  etc.). No exp. necessary.  washer/dryer included.  Kaja\631-5312  future! 1-800-927-2527 ext. 1 051  If you see Dan ''The Hyphen Man"  
Jen@ 243-9019 or 1-9330-very  (919)918-7767, ext. C154.  $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232-4527  C. happening, call 1-4541 and ask  
importantI  (Member, Better Business Bureau  or 683-5038.  for JAMIE.  
CARE Program.)  '89 Dodge Caravan, Rebuilt Engine,  
WANTED  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 5 BDRMS IN HOME-close to cam­pus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all  V.G Condition. $1700 o/b/o.  Need some info but don't know where to turn?  Phone tally: DC -4, JH -2... the battle begins  
Plus Forest, Beach Resorts,  utilities & kitchen privileges.  '83 Honda Civic. Good Cond. $500  Call COUNSELINE Mon-Thurs  
Ranches, Rafting Companies. Up to  $225/mo. 232'2794 -Paul  o/b/o.  from 4pm-12am at 1-7793 to hear  "Some things in here don't react  
SUMMER JOBS  $12/hour. Nationwide openings.  Call Jihad 277-3254.  professionally audiotaped materials.  well to bullets."  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Call (919)918-7767, ext. R154.  Beautiful, huge one-bedroom apart- See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone- 
PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  I need an affordable place to stay  ment overlooking pool at The Pointe downtown. Has everything,  TICKETS  book for a list of tapes. Sponsored by the UCC and  Holly-ROAD TRIP! Glad to have you  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  this summer.  incl. washer & dryer. Sublet May 1­ Psychology club.  along for the ride.  
1-800-786-8373  July 31 (or start a new lease). You  Graduation tickets needed. Will  Let Counseline help you!  
If you need a roommate or need  keep my $200 deposit! 282-2212 or  pay $$. Please call Christian x1 071  If you see Jamie ''The Comma  
someone to sublet your apartment,  631-7048.  Queen" H. happening, call1-4541  
call Ryan (634-3323).  I need extra grad tickets! Will pay$.  SENIOR NAVY ROTC-Ex. Nuc.  and leave a message for DAN.  
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY-MENT-Discover how workers can  FOR SALE  Call Ethan, 4-1659.  L T has a great deal on uniforms call for info 287-4609  Heat- 
earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise  Summer Girl Needed -Chicago  NEED ND GRAD. TIX. $$  Don't Haras Nad.  
Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum- North Suburbs. Live in and help  1986 Acura Integra-5 sp, A/C,  PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5  LOST 3/17!  
mer in the Land Tour industry! Call  care for 3,5, 10, and 14 year aids.  cass., sunroof. Good Shape  PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME.  ND Class Ring  Sarah,  
Cruise Information Services: BOO·  Non-smoker with drivers license.  $1900. 273-5930  Blue Stone  Finnigan's last Sat.  
276-5407 Ext. C55846  Salary plus room and board.  BIG EAST LOYALTY  Full name inside  -This is like a bad episode of  
Interested person call 847-295­ FREE Phone Card. No restrictions,  Reward, If found  Singled Out" and I can't change the  
FRIENDS OR SIBLINGS  3493.  Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19  2-6 TIX IN SECTION 100 FOR  call Mark 243-9396  channel!  
GRADUATING?  min. in the  CINCINNATI FINAL 4.  
U.S. SASE to: Free Phone Card,  MARSHALL ENOS: Has Baywatch  His name was Yoda, he was a  
WORK CATERING FOR  Wanted: part-time customer service  PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN  1-860-644-6794.  called you yet to audition? We all  muppet. Darth Vader was so bad,  
GRADUATION!  representative at publishing compa­ 46947  know that you've got the bathing  and by the way, he's Luke's dad.  
* FREE ROOM/BOARD  ny. Responsibilities include han­ suit and the bod to fill it!  Luke kissesd his sister, his hand  
• $6.75 PER HOUR  dling orders (by mail and phone), til- DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIVING  AITN:NDvUo!M  got cut off, in a galaxy far, far away,  
• MAY 10-18  ing, changes of address in addition  THESE ND WINTERS? LLBean  5 Football tix-MUST SELL  EX ND STAFFER AND SPOUSE  Luke has had a lousy day.  
HOUSING DEADLINE 4/3/97  to subscription files maintenance  down coat for sale-great cond.,  $$FACE VALUE$$  (RETIRED) WISH TO RENT APT.  
SIGN UP: M-FRI 10:00-5:00  and other clerical tasks as needed.  men's S-this is the warmest coat  Call Anne/Alice  FOR SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS,  Fonzolio:Congradulations on being  
CATERING EMPLOYMENT  Good phone and typing skills  you can find! will keep you warm on  4x2488  NON-DRINKERS, NO PETS, REF- elected the new co-president of  
OFFICE  reqiJired. Flexible hours. For an  those walks to & from D2, D6, C1­ ERENCES. WRITE 135 LAKE- Keenan!  
SDH LOWER LEVEL 631-5449  interview call Denise at Blue & Gold Illustrated, 255-9800 between 10-4.  great deal for $125! call Wendy @ 243 9430  PERSONAL  VIEW, MULBERRY FL 33860 OR PHONE (941)425-4404 ANYTIME.  -Goose  


page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, March 27, 1997 
• fOOTBALl 


Spring drills signal new start for team under Davie 

Student Tickets on Sale Now! 
Tennessee (27-10)  Stanford (34-1)  
Fri. 9!lJOpm  Fri. 7:00pm  
Notre Dame (31-6)  Old Dominion (33-1)  

Final Four Student Tickets in Cincinnati this Friday and Sunday will be on sale while supplies last at the LaFortune Information Desk and the Joyce Center Ticket Office until Thursday at noon. Tickets are $75.00 and include all three (3) games. (Limited Quantity Available) 
Sunday's Championship Game 8:30pm 
By MIKE DAY Spans Editor 

It is spring time in South Bend. Following up a blistery cold and seemingly endless winter, spring is supposed to be a season of hope, a time for growth, and the mark of new beginnings.
And while..-----......, the weather may not always fall true to form in this neck of the woods, spring is all of these things -a Davie time of growth, hope, and new begin­nings -for Notre Dame foot­ball. 
As the Irish kick offspring drills this week, it will not just be your average month of ex­tensive workouts and rigorous conditioning. Indeed. this spring is different for new head coach Bob Davie and the Irish. 
It is a chance to phase out the old and usher in the new. It is the opportunity to start from scratch and mold the pro­gram to Davie's liking. It is a time of transition for the nation's most storied football team. 
It all begins now -this spring. Davie knows he will never have another spring sea­son quite like this one. 
"Over the last couple months, I've had a chance to implement what I really want off the field with the team," said Davie at Monday's press conference. "But it's exciting now to start and do the on-field part." 
While the new ·Coach is eager to implement his own style of coaching and leadership, Davie insists that Irish football won't be much different than under his predecessor Lou Holtz. 
"There will probably be a lot more similarities to last year's team than what people think," said Davie. "One of the rea­sons was that our philosophies were very much similar." 
"I don't think you're going to see, at least I hope you're not going to see a drastic change. We've been pretty darn suc­cessful around here." 
However, as a former defen­sive coordinator, Davie plans to add a twist of his own. Fans can expect to see offensive players competing at the defensive side in certain situa­tions and vice-versa. 
"I think by being creative and getting the best players on the field, I'm certainly open to that (special substitution)," said Davie. "That's something that I want to do. Especially with the scholarship numbers the way they are now, it even becomes more critical that you do that, I think." 
With Davie and offensive coordinator Jim Colleto implementing a new system, now is the time to see who will be most effective at the helm of the offense. 
"l think that at quarterback Ron Powlus is going in as the starting quarterback," said Davie. "So as we progress into the spring, I think it will take care of itself, but certainly Jarious Jackson and Eric Chappell will have every opportunity to beat Ron Powlus out." 

Unfortunately, Davie and his staff will not have the luxury of being at full strength this spring. Defensive linemen Melvin Dansby and Brad Williams (who has moved back to his natural position after a stint at offensive line in 1996) will miss the workouts after undergoing off-season knee surgery. 
In addition, starting offensive guard Mike Rosenthal (arthro-
Master of Ceremony


Regis Philbin 
...to be Joined by Chris Zorich, 
Jerome Bettis, Derrick Mayes, 
Tony Rice, Jerry Faust and a 

AprilS, 1997 few nwre surprises. 


Joyce Center 7:30pm 
Doors open at 6:45pm 
Tickets available at LaFortune & the Joyce Center ticket office 
Arena Seating $10.00 • $5.00 Students 
www.RoastTheCoach.com 219.674.0900, ext 1212 
scopic surgery) will not be available for this year's drills, but all three are expected to be back at 100 percent by next fall. 
"Spring football injuries are a concern of mine. I think you'll see, just in comparison, it probably will not be as phys­ical a spring as we've had," said Davie. "I think first of all, out of necessity, we're imple­menting new schemes, but that's also my nature. I think 
A BENEFIT FOR LIFE TREATMENT CENTERS 
spring is a time to really upgrade your scheme." 
The new era of Notre Dame football has begun. 


Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 


Thursday, March 27, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish face Pirates in Big East conference opener .. 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
While the skies opened up on Tuesday. forcing the cancella­tion of the softball team's home opener against Indiana, the Irish wasted no time in begin­ning preparations for their Big East conference opener against Seton Hall. 
The Irish face the Pirates in a four-game series, playing dou­ble headers today and Saturday in South Orange, N.J. Notre Dame, the pre-season Big East South Division favorite, defeated 

* 
Learn from Washington, DC's political pv-ofe??ion~~7 

* 
1\rolh:e TV & Radio ads, construct opinion polls, stage media events, conduct field research, and more 

* 
Make cOr'lnect,on? to launch your career 

* 
Attend "il"''?idev-" special events 


APPLICATION DEADLINE: SUMMER: April 25, 1997 FALL: June 14, 1997 SPRING 1998: October 31, 1997 
(Rolling Admissions: Apply Now!) 
For more information, and to receive an application, contact: (800) 367-4776, 
(202) 994-Q)()O, or http://www.gwu.edu/-gspm. 

The Graduate School of Political 
Management 
GW is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution 
If you are fast enough to be one of the first 10,000 people to tell us where yoo found our new Phish FoodTlol ice cream, we'll rush you an official Phish Foodn.~ sticker. 
Write down the name and address of the store where you saw Phish Foodn.~, plus your own name and address, and SNAIL MAIL it to: I Foond the @!.f. Phish Foodn.~, Ben & Jerry's, 
P.O. Box 2384, <St 
®
South Burlington, ~ VT 05407-2384. (Sorry, no e-mails or calls please). Happy Fishin'! 

Offer valid until6/l/97, or while QUantities last. No purchase necessary -just tell us where you saw Phish Food~. \bid where prohibited or restricted by law. Not responsible for lost or misdirected mail. Phish and Phish Food are trademarks of Phishinc. Copyright Ben&> Jerry's Homemade, Inc.l997. 
Seton Hall four times in 1996, their inaugural season in the Big East, en route to a 19-1 reg­ular season conference mark. 
Leading the Irish into today's contests, senior Katie Marten boasts a team-high .386 batting average and .493 sluggipg per­centage. An offensive spark for the squad, the two time All­American has scored 10 runs and blasted seven extra-base hits, with four doubles and three triples. 
Also sparking the Irish offense are center fielder Jenn Giampaolo, who leads the team with nine doubles, and third baseman Kara McMahon, who has driven in nine runs. 
Pitcher Kelly Nichols heads into the four-game series with 18 career saves, just one shy of the NCAA record held by Cal Poly Pomona's Lori Thompson. Nichols struck out the final bat­ter in Notre Dame's 1-0 win over Evansville and pitched the final three innings to seal the victory over Mississippi State, recording her two saves of the season. 
Sophomore Angela Bessolo's · 7-5 record and 1.71 ERA both lead the pitching staff. Bessolo has won five of her last six games after a rocky 2-4 start. Senior hurler Joy Battersby has allowed a team-low 15 walks in her 48 innings pitched this sea­son. Battersby's 2-5 record is a testimony to her difficulties this spring, but it doesn't reveal the lack of run support she has re­ceived. The Irish offense has tallied only six runs in her five losses. 
Following the four-game series versus Seton Hall, the Irish travel to Purdue Of\ April 3 and finally open their home sea­son on Fri., April 4, with a doubleheader against Big East foe Boston College. 

What will you do after graduation? 
Why ,not help us change lives? 
We care for young children who are abused, neglected, or HIV+. You can help. 
P.O. Box 66581 
Houston, lX 77266-6581 
Voice (713)529-0639


casa Fax (713)529-9179 
de esperanza 
Applications accepted year 'round. Room/Boa rd/Stipend/Health Insuranee. CPR/First Aid certification and training provided. 

page 14 Monday, March 27, 1997 
Butler) has not been so strong, and so much of our tough com­
Lax 

petition has come outside the continued from page 20 conference. We take these 
games very seriously." 

Despite their strong showing, Saturday's game is a big step many Irish players found no toward fruition of Notre Dame's trouble pointing to areas in long-standing goal to win a Na­which improvement is needed if tional Championship. they are to successfully compete "That's our goal," surmised against the top teams like Jim Keenan, Notre Dame's All­Hobart. American midfielder, "to win 
"We didn't clear the ball the NCAA title." well," observed Galli. "We have To do this, Notre Dame must to be more careful getting the first get a bid to the 12-team ball out of our own end." NCAA national tournament, 
"We need to clean up some held at the end of the season. other areas," added Savage. The most likely path to the Big "In addition to improving clear­Lacrosse Dance is via an auto­ing the ball from our end. we matic bid earned by winning need to make it harder for the their conference, which Notre other team to clear it. More Dame has had no trouble doing importantly, we need to work in the past. on our mental outlook on the But the competition within the game. It's below where it conference is getting better. should be. We just have to fo­"Our conference is getting cus better on the games at tougher," observed Galli. hand." "There's no doubt about that." 
How does Notre Dame pre­"We need to take the games pare for a non-conference one at a time," added Savage. game? "Both the conference and the 
"We do not approach these non-conference games. We games any differently," declared want to win it all. but we Galli. "In the past, our confer­shouldn't focus on the big pic­ence {which includes Air Force, ture. Every game is a big Ohio State University, and game." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Weekend Rtt'¢quetb Tournament-This tourna­ment will be on April 12 and 
13. There will he men's and women's divisions with a t~ shirt being. a"W~J:d,~d to .a participants. Brhig your o racquet, but racquetballs will be provided. Also, refreshments will be served. You must register in advance in the HecSport~ <()ffice b April 10; and tq~re is a $
fee. ··· ...~,.,,. 


~ ~OBSERV 





soasER.vc 
is now accepting applications for: 
DJ~~o~0@oo0 ~@oooO lMJ®r?~ 0~ ~~0l?O~ ~~~00r?. 
No experience required. If interested, contact Mike Day at 1-4543 or stop by 314 Lafortune. 


f '4 '"" f"·J, 
SOCIAL CON.CERNS 

APPALACHIA SEMINAR TASK FORCE 
The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking two members to join the Appalachia Task Force for the 1997-98 school year. Tlus is a two semester commitment. The Task Force consists of seven undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and main,taming the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experiential learning as a means to enhance higher education; thereiore, we are in need of interested, enthusiastic, and committed people to join us. 
If you have partiCipated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applying to the Appalachia Task Force. 
APPLICATIONS: Now available at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: Friday, April 4, 1997 
For further information: 

M.j. Adams, 634-3880, Lauren Stein, 271-1699 or Rachel Tomas-Morgan, 282-2209 
the world is getting smaller smell better. 

...... G)
... 
ca
...
·­
·-E 
...... 


Thursday, March 27, 1997 
NOTHIN' BUT LEVI'S® 

~-·• 


page 16 The Observer· WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR Thursday, March 27, 1997 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Sheila McMillen has come up with some clutch shots in the Irish run. By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Adversity is something that faces every team during a sea­son. Ilow much and how they handle that adversity is anoth­er matter. 
The team that suddenly has everybody talking, the 31-6 Cincinnati-bound women's bas­ketball team, has certainly had their share of challenges. Those chall have come in 

Road to the Final Four 


It takes a little more to make a champion 
more than the form of the Connecticut Huskies, the Alabama Crimson Tide, or a fierce Texas Longhorn crowd. 
Head coach Muffct McGraw has seen one player leave the squad and two of her promis­ing young players getting shelved for the majority of the season. She ~aw her squad drop from seventh in the AP poll to as low as 21st as they were upset by an unranked Ohio State team on its national 


Storrs, CT -Big East C'!ampionship 
•Irish last loss suffered at hands of top ranked UCONN 77-86 
Austin, TX -NCAA first and second rounds 
• 
NO blows Memphis out of gym in 93 -62 shalacking 

• 
Morgan and Gaither go for 29 each leading to a thrilling 86-83 win over the Longhorns 


Columbia, SC -East Regionals 
• 
Morgan's career high and East Regional record 36 points lead Irish from down by 9 to 87-71 to win over Alabama 

• 
Gaither's 25 point 16 rebound effort pace Blue & Gold to 62-52 win over George Washington 


Cincinnati, OH -Final Four 
• Notre Dame becomes just the third No.6 seed to advance to Final Four 
The Observer/ Brian Blank 
television debut. 
The one similarity of all these 
obstacles has been the team's 
ability to bounce back and g1~t 
back on its road to the Final 
Four. 

"We've faced a lot of adver­sity," Beth Morgan said. "Those who were still healthy, everybody stepped up their game because· we knew we were going to be the ones who . would make or break our sea­
son." 

The squad got off to a quiek 
start out of the gates with up­
sets of then No. 6 Iowa and 
then No. 8 North Carolina State 
in the women's NIT. Then the 
Irish lost freshman guard Niele 
lvey to a torn ACL. lvey, out of 
Cor Jesu in St. Louis was the 
USA Today Missouri Player of 
the Year and an honorable 
mention All-American. 
The Blue and Gold were 
then returned the favor of 
being upset as unranked foes 
Purdue, Wisconsin, and Ohio 
State knocked off the Irish. 
"We lost Niele and that took a 
lot out of the team. It was a big 
blow," assistant coach Carol 
Owens said. "She brought a 
big spark and it took us a long 
time to bounce back." 
But the Irish did bounce back 
as they entered Big East play 
and have now won 21 of their 
losses coming to none other 
then the Connecticut Huskies, 
who no longer stand in Notre 
Dame's way. 
"Our confidence was not high 
(after the OSU loss)," Owens 
said. "Then we went on a 
spurt where we realized that 
this is the Big East and we 
need to do well." 
"When we lost to Ohio State 
and UConn twice, they were 
learning experiences," Morgan 
said. "As far as playing the top 
team in the country, I think it 
was a great experience for us. 
Playing them so close at their 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Rosanne Bohman has picked up her play come tounament time. 
place gave us a lot of confi­dence." 
Although disappointed by its loss to UConn in the champi­onship of the Big East Tournament, the team realized that the NCAA Tournament lay ahead and they needed to prove their rcsilency once again, which they have with their four game run taking them to Cincinnati. 
"The seniors really have stepped up to make it (the in­juries) not be a factor," Owens said. "They're playing like they should be at this time of the month. We're a small unit and we're very close." 
At one point during the year, the squad got to the point where they dressed just seven players. But March is the time of the year when most squads do not go more than seven or eight players deep. That com­bined with a veteran squad has minimized the effect that the injuries have had on the squad. 
"We have a veteran team which helps," Owens said. "We definitely wouldn't have gone this far considering the injuries with a young team. But when all the seniors arc healthy that helps." 
"We stopped paying attention to it and everybody took on a double load," Owens continued. "We thought if we want to be in this position in March, this is what we have to do. We had to practice harder, hit the weight room more and stay in great shape." 
This attitude of "never say die:· or "refuse to lose" or whatever cliche you can think of has not only been their atti­tude when it comes to injuries, but also their recent games. 
In their last three contests against Texas, Alabama, and 
George Washington, they found themselves down in the second stanza and their backs against the walt. But someone has been there to step up and knock down the big shot, grab the rebound, or come up with the defensive stand. holding off midnight in their Cinderella season. 
"Injuries can parallel the course during a game when we're not playing well or the other team is making a run," Morgan noted. "I think we've been pretty resilient. Playing a great team night in and night out we know they'll have their run. We just need to keep it close and we know we're going to have our run." 
Only those who have not seen their last three games may wonder how Morgan knows that they'll have their run. Against Texas, Morgan teamed up with Sheila McMillen to hit back to back treys and give the squad a one point lead from being down by five. 
Down by nine against Alabama, Morgan wa.s at it again when she drained three in a row from behind the arc before McMillen came of the bench to hit two in a row and ignite a 22-0 run. 
In the Regional Final against George Washington, the Colonials took the lead for the l'irst time in the second half. But this time, the Irish used a man-to-man defense to start a run and take the lead for good. 
"When it's been crunch time everybody has stepped up their play and we've had some great victories," Morgan said. 
The Irish have overcome the adversity, and they have the feeling and confidence that they have a couple more great victories in them. 




The Observer· WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR 

Gaither 
continued from page 20 
which sometimes plays right into the hands of the Irish. 
"Sometimes we hope that they double team Katryna," Owens said. "They don't real­ize how good (Rosanne) Bohman is. That allows the guards or Katryna to get the ball to Rosanne." 
"It obviously helps because she draws the attention from the other post players and that opens things for Rosanne and Julie (Henderson)," Morgan said. "Teams can't focus on the post or the perimeter against us because if they do, the other aspect will beat them." 
Gaither has written her name all over the Irish record books as she places second on the all­time career scoring list behindnity for us. We're more excited 
Morgan and second in re­
because this is our first time,

Preview 
bounds behind Lelita Brown.
and they're here all the time." 
She holds the school record forcontinued from page 20 It didn't look like that would most points in a game, burningbe the case this season, as the the Ohio Bobcats for 40 points
"No one had expected us to go Lady Vols had to endure the rig­this far," said Gaither. "We've ors of a schedule that included back in November. Gaither 
taken it one step at a time." 18 ranked teams. In the also has 20 double-doubles this If the next step is to be a suc­process, UT dropped 10 games. year and an Irish record 40 in cessful one, Gaither will have to "I guess people have to say her career, making Gaither a 
consistent driving force for
play a major role. She uses a we've moved from pretenders to unique combination of size and contenders," said Summit. Muffet McGraw's Final Four athleticism to dominate, but she "That was great motivation." squad. 
will meet her match in "She goes out and plays hard
One way the Vols have been and has great athletic ability,"Chamique lloldsclaw, a two-time able to turn that motivation into Morgan said. "When you com­All-American, just a sophomore. victories is their bench. Summit bine that with her work ethic
Standing 6-foot-2, she can has the luxury of bringing 6­score in the post and can also foot-4 Tiffani Johnson off the it's no wonder what she's been create ofT the drive to make her bench. Johnson was a member able to accomplish." 
Vernon, N.Y. knew how to accomplish it and 
own shots. She has created of the 1996 NCAA All­College ball hasn't always 
"The summertime is the best fill the team's needs."
enough of them to average over Tournament Team. come easy for Gaither. When time to improve," Gaither said. "My junior year I was playing20 points per game this season. The Irish, on the other hand, she came in as a freshman, she "My dad helped me out all the with more confidence, and this"Chamique has a great deal of have a very well-documented ran into more physical and time and helped me to get to year I just wanted to improveconfidence in herself," UT's leg­thin bench. One bright spot mature players. 
"I came in a the next level." on my game. There's alwaysendary coach Pat Summitt said. among the reserves has been as skinny kid "Basically, I played against a room for improvement." 
and I didn't know my role onMcGraw's squad will vary its guard Sheila McMillen, a sharp­bunch of guys. They were so "With her athletic ability, shestrategy to combat Holdsclaw. shooter who can take pressure the team," Gaither remem­
"Our game plan is to mix ofT Morgan on the outside. bered. "The only thing I had much stronger and I could hasn't reached her potential 
compete with my quickness, yet," Owens said. "I think she'sgoing for me was my speed.
things up on defense," said "The difference between the and that prepared me for the going to get even better whenSince then I have just devel­Rosanne Bohman. regular season and now is that college game." she plays professional ball." 
oped myself." 

But by no means is Holdsclaw everyone is stepping up and peo­Her hard work in the summer "She's worked really hard inSummit's only offensive threat. ple have gotten stronger," said "She came in and put on paid off come the next winter the weight room and funda­Fellow forward Abby Conklin is Gaither. "We're very confident about 10 or 15 pounds the last when she started 26 of 31 mentally," Morgan said. "Shea 6-foot-3 three-point threat, and have high expectations. We several years," Owens said. 
games and learned her role on has been able to learn the sys­
and point guard Jolly is a steady think we're as good as anyone After averaging 10 minutes floor leader who can also hit out there. The only team that and five points in her first year, the team and in the game. tem and she has reaped the 
"I was finally able to break benefits of it." With a 31-6from the outside. in which she lacked confidence, 
can beat us is ourselves." 
free from my freshman year record and a trip to the FinalAnd the Irish just have a great With the stakes this high, that Gaither took advantage of her and I had more confidence. I Four, the program has also cer­summer and spent most of onall-around player in small for­is always a concern. The nerves was aware of my role and I tainly reaped the benefits. 
the courts in her home of Mt.
ward Beth Morgan. will likely be jumping. The honorable mention All­"I don't think we'll be too ner­America has been pouring in the vous," Bohman said. "We may points for four years and has have a few bad passes early but 
Semifinal matches up familiar faces 
saved her best for last. it will be nothing we can't over­
In the last two games, Morgan come." By BETSY BAKER Cardinal off their top-ranked a national championship with tallied 51 points and has no Overcoming things, especially Associate Sports Editor pedestal, never to return. But this team," VanDerveer said. intention of seeing her career odds, has been the specialty of the Cardinals have won 25 "It's really a special group." end yet, which can also be said the 31-6 Irish. The Notre Dame women's bas­straight since then and are look­Preventing that from happen­of classmates Gaither, Bohman, "Every game since the ketball team is the clear under­ing for revenge. ing will be the job of Wendy and Jeannine Augustin. Memphis game has supposedly dog of this weekend's Final Four Headlining the Cardinal team Larry and the "Big Three" of Old 
"Getting to the Final Four was been an upset according to the and with good reason. As the is Naismith player of they year Dominion, the name given to the a dream at the beginning of the media and the NCAA commit­Irish, in their first trip to the and Sports Illustrated cover girl, front line of Clarisse year," said Augustin. "But now tee," said Morgan. "But we went Final Four, join three ex-nation­6-foot-2 Kate Starbird. Machanguana, Mery Andrade, that we're here, we may as well in focused and everyone on the al champions in Cincinnati on Starbird's 20.9 points per game and Nyree Roberts. The "Big go for the national champi­team believed we had the poten­Friday, they have their work cut leads the Cardinal, and the fact Three" in combination with one onship." tial to reach the Final Four." out for them. that she is one of the tallest of the nation's top point guards, 
Overcoming the tradition­Now that they're there, the If the Irish are able to de­guards of the tournament allows Ticha Penicheiro, should make laden Tennessee program is the attitude is a bit different. throne defending National her to be dangerous from just Friday's first contest one of the next obstacle. "We're going to enjoy it, that's Champions Tennessee on about anywhere on the court. most evenly-matched of the ( 
"I don't think that will affect for sure," said Bohman. "We're Friday, the road to the national However, what makes tournament. 
us," said Augustin of the UT tra­just going to go out and play our championship will not get any Stanford so potent on the court The key to ODU's success is a dition. "This is a great opportu-game and try to win this thing." easier. comes from 5-foot-6 point guard balanced-attack. They can hurt On the other side of the Final . Jamila Wideman. Although con­you from anywhere on the court 
Four, 1985 siderably short for a college and it is impossible to double up National Champion player, her defensive pressure on any one player without Old Dominion and has made the Cardinals a threat unleashing another dangerous 1990 and 1992 on both ends of the court. weapon. National Champion Rounding out the Cardinal are Unlike VanDerveer's descrip­,Stanford will battle 6-foot-2 center Olympia Scott, 6-tion of how it would be "fun" to at a chance to col­foot-1 forward Vanessa win the title, ODU is serious lect another title. Nyggard, 6-foot-4 forward about its trip to the Final Four 
Both teams are Naomi Mulitauaopele, and 6-and its intentions. stacked with both foot-2 Kristin Folk!. Folk!, who "We're not going there to see talent and size. is also an All-American volley­what kind of malls they have or They bring identi­ball player and a high school to find cute guys," Penicheiro cal 34-1 records to teammate of Irish player Mollie commented. "We're going there the Final Four with Peirick, is used to being a to take care of business." ­the edge going to national champion, as she led The highlight of this game will ODU as the only the Cardinal volleyball team to be the match-up between Stanford loss was a two volleyball titles. Wideman and Penicheiro at 83-66 beating With two national titles under guard, and whoever is able to taken from the her belt, Stanford head coach more effectively run their Lady Monarchs on Tara VanDerveer is looking to offense while maintaining 40 December 17. The win another with this year's minutes of good solid defense 
__.,......._-""niie'Oi~;;;rm-~~iiiduii loss to 0 D U team. should walk away with a shot at Point guard Jeannine Augustine wil control the Irish attack in Cincinnati. knocked the "It would be really fun to win the National Champions~ip. 
The Obse!Ver/Mike Ruma 

Mollie Peirick now has her sights on the defense of the Volunteers. 
The Obse!Ver/Mike Ruma 

Gaither consistently draws double-teams from opposing squads. 

----~------~------~-----------~ -------~--------­
page 18 The Observer· CARTOON QUEST Thursday, March 27, 1997 
• 


\.-f f. A~! G,c.oo! I Ln:.~ h-/. .. Bu-r Wr:~L.-1-\Av£To 
TR'rn T~ Doi.I'IN






Cheese Yeur 
A "Btl... 

~wn 
W: 
o will follow in the path ofDave Kellett and Ed Leader as the next cartoonist for The Observer? Each of these candidates has his eyes set on being the next. And the decision is up to you. -That's right: your vote will determine which comic strip appears in The Observer. In each issue this week and next week, a selection from each of the four comic strips will appear here. Next week, a ballot will be provided at the bottom of this page so that you can submit your vote for your favorite comic strip. 
Lol~G~W~riF~k~,,.. SO~E~ KEVIN TROVINI 
oks.at the chaos and 

Parne. •The. ~trip I dt..~nJ'\0 ••• No!Yo4 have rof Be . sh ):lndfy und$rgrad, . . . •.• May be I C-OnFidentf You're a (currently unnamed), A.J, is always won't ~o to 
~rea-!" ~uy-any ~ irJ 
up in some wacky misadventure (often· 
th~ dal"'c..e W'Oul4 be lud::y -tO
position at the South Dining Hall) and 
,go wi-th yo4/
tob,lin4lrhls umNilllr1g roomie along for the ride. Whereas at 
all)

cursed,>his suave roommate has opJ:JOstre sex. These two soon develop a 
l_~
Amy, a charismatic biochem major, ai'Jd the hall. .Other characters include;. :.Jw: 11 Stadium Us~~r1 ;3kippy. th,e SquirrE)I! the Talking Etha,hol Cloud. 
Kevin Trovinl 
DAN SULLIVAN 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
Men About Campus is essentially a comic strip about that 

R 'i5 ·HOURS A/Vt> '~' 1'1 I /VIffe_, -a guy's perspective about Notre Dame. H·covers every­THE Grill'S I'INAU.Y Fi/11/S 1-1 
thing, including NO "dating," the dining hall, SYRs, football 
Cl..EA /11/.V(;j· AT ~:oo Pf'll 
games, th~ leprechaun and the weather. .Of course, the strip will contain women-as for the moment the guys are just moving into their new place. And like the dorms, all campus comics have to contend with parietals,_ too. 
The comic strip also will address some of the politics of NO, such as the stance on gay and lesbian students, the ever-increasing number of sports edifices on campus, along with the basic humor which a group of four unique men even­tually come up with. 
Dan Sullivan 

JOHN HLAVATY 

r-:=:q.,.,-~-:--od-:-,.,.-""'-E'--S-.-.,-""'-od':'"'!¥"-1.., u,a,,., ~ .,,,...ll..~-.;;;,-;;;~ts cccor.. ,---------­r.hl'l~r::~r.tAI'!': of N.D.C.D. Blues are a nameless koala bear a..,d cla.o;..,:l ac
do. 'I ~E'VIeC,cs at at-tl1.­
• peo•U~..::ilt.,;and the strip's settihgwlfl vary. In general, I will mock l-1ave ,..,sport>clso...,eoM.-. Corby'5 Oub 23 L,..e"'-c · · around and to me. Since I am a Notre Dame stu-


Dame events will play a role in the strip's theme. a~p~cts 9't fl)Y lif~ here, V!,l~~c~ . l don't 
....• ·.·Notre DameJTfiese first seven . demon-them dealdjrebtiy with Notte Dame; but of the it. The jokesiegaiding the Huddle, the dining hall , etc., have been done ad nat.~seam. I hope to 
perspective. in this strip. 
) John Hlavaty 


THE LILYPAD :JEREMIAH CONWAY 
The strip is about Ron, Pete, and everyone .else's crazy nves 
The Stars o' the Show: 
Ron is pretty delusional, and Pete tends to be .more sane, a~ does Lissa. when. qompared to her roommate; Jen ...Lissa ls arr' engineer, ano Je· an architecture .m .. l~hp~~l1 thatry)~y change. Crazy . . .•. the demented next· r nelgl)bor 'of Fl~h and Pete; he's pretty messed up. The Two .. lant Squlrtels Eire friends of Crazy Bill on the Bookstore Basketball team. Lenny, a chupacabra, Hves in Pete's pillow. ·

-
Jeremiah Conway 


Thursday, March 27, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 



MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
f 

~ 
~--~------~----~~L-----~~~------_J 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Park Place 34 Neighbor of 
1 Post office unit Tenn.
6 "Nuts!" 
35 Preschooler 10 Post-larval 36 It needs to be insect cured 14--positive 

37 Every other 15 Shem's eldest 
hurricane son 
38 Percent suffix 16 British P.M. 
39 St. James Place 44 WrongheadedDouglas-Home 46 Shaded fabric 17 Short Line 

designs 20Timeline 
47 Cosmetic 

divisions 
additive 21 Old blues 
48 Passe in the singerMa--extreme 22 Carriage horse 49 Casual wear 26 Floor 52 Novelist Gould 27 Frozen food 53 Pennsylvania brand Avenue 28 "Decline ofthe 59 "--was in the West" author beginning ..." 
--------------• 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 -Bator r--T--r-.--r::., 12 "--Le Moko" (1937 movie) 
=+=-=+~~-'-~ 13 Hurting 
.=..j..,;,+;+:..:.. ~~~-~~ 1 B Spheres !-'-+-'-+-'-+=-+=-+'-'+'-~ 19 Scrawny .-,;~.:.j.:..!..l 22 Race track info 
=+~-=+'-l 23 Small pit 
t-=-1"::'+-=-'+=o" oiiii~B-:;+:;. ioi~F~BF--1 24 ShaquilleO'Neal, for one 25 Wedding party members, often 
~~.:.:..j=-1 26 Foam ~~-=-~-"-'-~ 28 Italian wine -=+;::+::;.+:;:..j 29 Pakistani city .::..~;:..:..L:~:.J 30 Parisian pupils 
IT TOOK TWO WEEKS OF 011-IE.RWlSE 
PRODUCTIVE TIME. AND EVERYT\-\lNG BUT OUR 
ADORES:) IS A LIE. 
60 Improvise 61 --Cologne 62 Arrest of action 63 Swiss cheese 
holes 64 Stock market woe 
DOWN 
1 Unveil, in verse 2 Tea server 3 Land to which 
Cain fled 4 Lover's sound 5 Eastern 
aristocrat &Indemnity 7 Word for poor 
Yorick &Swab 9 More stylish 
10 Downsizing 
31 Describing a numismatist's treasure 
33 Picture on a $10,000 bill 39 Slave 40Wearing 41 Away from the office 42 Collects 43 Oil measure: Abbr. 45 Theme of Ecclesiastes 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your fabulous encr~1 will do IHJil· der> f(Jr you if you 'C.Imose your ob­
jectives with care. A )Oung person 
could play a major role in your sum· mer plans. Change and 1·ariety are favored next September. so long as you refrain from overdoing it. Tak· ing a late fall vacation will lei you get some much-needed rest and recreation. Romance and travel go hand-in-hand as the December holi· days approach. Reach out to a kin· dred spirit' 
CELEBRITiES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Mariah Carey. singer Sarah Vaughn, actress Maria Schneider, photographer Edward Steichen. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your allies will be sympathetic and helpful if you find yourself in a bind. You can gain a lot by showing appreciation. Inspired advice comes from someone who has assisted in the past. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A key relationship could sutTer if you show your ambition too openly. Re­flect awhile before doing anything drastic. Concentrate on the work at hand. . 
GEMINI (May 2J.June 20): Ar­range your day's agenda as early as possible. Your life partner is a terrific asset in social situations. Discuss invitations with your mate before deciding whether to accept them. 
CANCER (June 21 -July 22): The more flexible you are, the soon· er you will get a lucky career break. Postpone signing contracts until legal matters have been clarified. A lawyer's advice is essential' 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep plugging away with a nev. idea. Joining a professional group will ex­pand your social horizons. B~ will-
I SEND MY 
SHIRTS TO A 
48 Daytime fare 54 Low island 55 Square dance 
49 Ernst &Young partner
staff 56 "Mais --!"
50 Throng 

57 Contribute 51 Pelvic bones 
58 "Malcolm X" 52 Club soda fillip director 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
mg ro do some \vork on 'pee 1f tht:ll 
could be a big payoff. 
VIRGO !Aug. ~J-Scpt ~::'I· force yourself to go lh•l extra Jlllk it could lead to a contract or nc\\ client' Talk to someone ahout an 111· vestment without delay. S" itchin)' schools could help a child's perfnr 
manec. 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. ~2): Bt prepared to take on additional task' Keep good records in case someone bills you for work they did not do Be realistic about how long a free lance assignment wi II take. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 J. Playing hard-to-get could set your career back. Becoming romanticall~ involved with a work associate could undermine your success. Do not agree to promote a financial offer. 
SAGITTARCUS (Nov. 22-Dec 
21 ): Allow yourself some leeway in 
case a job ends up costing you 
money. Neglecting to maintain 
equipment could prove expensive. A 
romance will last longer if you arc 
discreet. 
CAPRICORN tDec. 22-Jan. 19J 
Something you start today will en­
joy great success. Count on hitting 
the jackpot with an unusual idea. 
Make certain an\ new business as­
sociates are dep.endable and trust· 
worthy. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18J 
Your sixth sense is telling you some· 
thing about a romance. Pay atten· 
tion. Although redoing a job will be 
costly. future contracts are riding on 
the client's satisfaction. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Let 
family members in on your plans. A 
former partner could be trying to 
make you feel guilty. You may not 
be able to take advantage of" travel 
offer unless you speak up immedi­
ately. 
-



·~~--------------------------------­
SPORTS 

page 20 , Thursday, March 27, 1997 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALl 

It's time for the REALLY Big Dance 



The Observer/Brandon Candura 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Beth Morgan finds her squad two victories shy of the Championship. 
ND set to face defending champs 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Senior Sports Writer 

You wouldn't think defending national champion Tennessee, proud owners of four national championships and nine Final Four appearances, would be on a mission for respect. Think again. 
By their standards, the Lady Vols struggled this season, losing 10 games and have somewhat adopted an "underdog" attitude. 
Although the circumstances are quite different, the lesser­known Notre Dame program has also been on the path toward recognition. On Friday, those paths converge at 9:30 p.m. in Cincinnati when the Irish face the Lady Vols. 
"We've worked so hard for this and I think we deserve it," said UT guard Kellie Jolly. "We've been through so much this season. Nobody thought we'd be here today. It seemed we were the only ones who believed and we ~ept on saying we were the only ones who had to believe." 
The Irish feel the same way. 
see PREVIEW I page 17 
• MEN's lACROSSE 

Squad prepped for Hobart's challenge 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
To the average Domer, the word "Hobart" has little mean­ing-many don't even recog­nize it as a college in New York. To ardent lacrosse fans, however, 11th-ranked Hobart represents excellence in lacrosse. 
The team's trip to South Bend, to take on the Irish men's team at Moose Krause Stadium on Saturday after­noon. is the source of much excitement. 'This is definitely a big game for us," stated sophomore defender Laurence Galli. "Hobart has a good team, and this will definitely be 
. a test for us." 
Sophomore attacker Ben Savage agreed. "They're a re­ally good squad. They'll prob­ably be tougher than Dartmouth." 
Last Saturday, the Irish de­stroyed Dartmouth with ma­chine-like efficiency. "We played very well against Dartmouth. I think we out exe­cuted them. We just had an all-anmnd good game," said Savage. 
see LAX I page 14 

Gaither pulls her weight for Irish 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports ·Editor 
Four years ago a tall, skinny Katryna Gaither stepped onto the Joyce Center hardcourt. Now, a lot of quality time with the weights, 2,098 points and 973 rebounds later, Gaither finds herself', and the Notre Dame program in the Final Four and tho national spot­light. 
Gaither has earned honor­able mention All-America hon­ors in addition to receiving national media recognition. Sportscenter's Stuart Scott proclaimed her "The Truth" and Mimi Hogers (ESPN's women's basketball analyst) made the statement that "Katryna Gaither is as good as there is in the country. Everybody talks about (UConn's) Nykesha Sale's, (Alabama's) Dominique Canty and (Tennessee's) Chamique Holdsdaw, but Katryna is right there." 
In this record-breaking year for the Notre Dame women's basketball program, Gaither shattered teammate Beth Morgan's record for most points in a year with 748 as she averages 20.2 ppg on 59 percent shooting from the field. 
Gaither has grown to 
nant post players in the game, as no one person can guard her due to her size and athleti­cism. 
"Sometimes that (double­teaming) still doesn't stop her from scoring," assistant coach Carol Owens said. "She was always in great shape and she made the adjustment when they started being more physi­cal on her." 
After earning a starting posi­tion in her sophomore cam­paign, she poured in 19 points a contest with just under eight rebounds as she shot 62 per­cent from the floor. In her All-American year last season, she averaged just under 20 a game and increased her work on the glass to over nine a con­test. 
Gaither's numbers draw a lot of attention from opposing squads. Coaches are faced with the daunting task of try­ing to contain Gaither's pro­duction. They concentrate their defense on the middle 

Stephen Taylor and his teammates hope to knock-off number 11 Hobart in Saturday's game. 
vs. Tennessee at NCAA Track and Field at Sun Final Fourin Cincinnatit, 
Devil Invite and Purdue 
., a) •Davie begins spring practices 
Tomorrow at 9:30 on

SPORTS·.·· Invite, March 29 
~ 
see page 12 vs. Purdue, vs. Central Michigan, ATA ~ ESPN 

March 29 
• Softball takes on Seton Hall 

Today, 5 p.m. ~
r 
at Seton Hall, see page 13Men's vs. Hobart,
GLANCE. ,? 
March 29 Today
'fY ~ 





