

Wednesday, September 3, 1997• Vol. XXXI No.8 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Budgetary problems threaten SMC London Program 
By MELANIE GARMAN 
senior Jennifer Nelson. came to a close with the stu­eled and taught on the pro­Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor Nelson, an elementary edu­dents and faculty spending five gram this past summer. "It is cation major, wanted to be a days in the city of Paris, tour­also an opportunity to learn As many students spent their part of the program because it ing the Eiffel Tower and the more about your colleagues, summers working or complet­would have been her only Louvre. and a great chance to mix with ing internships, a few privi­opportunity to travel abroad "The program is a wonderful students in a different setting." leged Saint Mary's and Notre during her college career. way for students and faculty to According to Balka, the issue DamP students had the oppor­"Being an education major 
at hand is fitting the program
summer," said Feigel. "We are
tunity to travel abroad. on does not allow for one to travel into Saint Mary's budget. 
just awaiting the final budget
what may have been the final over the semesters due to our Since programs such as
costs to meet the end of
tour knnwn as the London student teaching commitments. these are usually budgeted a
September deadlines."
Program. That is why, without the year in advance, the decision
The tour began in mid-May
The month long program, London Program, I never must be made quickly.
with students and faculty all
which consisted this year of 69 would have been able to tour "We have got to instill in our
meeting in Limerick, Ireland.
students from Saint Mary's, and study abroad," said students and faculty a sense of
From there the group traveled
Notre Dame, and a variety of Nelson. be able to recommend how important it is to make a
to Dublin, where they had the
other four-year colleges, just The program continued with difference in the world.
opportunity to visit the the program to my
completed its 27th year under a five-day stay in Edinburgh, because we are affected by
Bunratty Castle and enjoy a
the direction and supervision Scotland, and then moved on friends.' global competition whether we
medieval dinner, prepared and
of former history professor to a two-week immersion in stay in the U.S. or not," said
served ust as if they were liv­Jenny Wejman 
Anthony Black. the lifestyles and culture of John Ruhe, professor of busi­
ing in medieval times. 
With Black's retirement, the London. ness administration. "The pro­
"Visiting all of the various
program is currently in the While there, the group ·travel abroad, because for gram allows students to learn
castles along the trip was
process of being reviewed by toured numerous castles and most of them it is their first more about themselves as indi­
exciting, but immersing our­
the College's dean of faculty, historical sites, and had the and only opportunity to take viduals and become more inde­
selves in the culture through a
Dorothy Feigel. option of going to see some of advantage of such a rewarding pendent."
reenactment dinner was
"The program is still up in Broadway's biggest hits pro­experience," said mathematics
incredible," said Saint Mary's
the air as far as plans for next duced in England. The trip professor Don Balka, who trav­
see LONDON I page 4 
• MUlTICUlTURAl BEAT 

OMSA kicks off 
new year with reorganization 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY News Writer 

The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs will be turning to new personnel as they gear up to provide the student body with another year of ethnic events and education. 
Iris Outlaw will continue ,-------.,.-, to direct the affairs of the Office. but Jose Gonzalez, the assistant director, will be leaving the OMSA as he is accepting a position as Director of the Multicultural Center at Bucknell University in Pennsylvania. Gonzalez was responsible for the organization of the Coalition Council and helped with the Leadership Summit. 
"Jose addressed the issues of OMSA, and didn't hesitate to get involved. He added a great deal of personal experience," Outlaw said of her co-worker. 
Kevin Huie. a Notre Dame graduate of 1994, was named the new assistant director once Gonzalez' departure was confirmed. 
Huie was a member of OMSA staff at DePaul University and the Campus and Residence Life staff at Loyola University in Chicago, where he has been earning a Master's Degree in Educational Leadership and Policy Studies. 
OMSA will also be adding a position to deal solely with the social aspects of the events it plans. This new division of OMSA will plan dances and festivals and add a "social compo­nent" to the office. Applications for the posi­tion have already been accepted, and the coalitions will have the opportunity to sched­ule interviews with the candidates before a final decision is made. 
Despite the vacant positions, OMSA held its first Coalition Council meeting last Wednesday in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. Fifty-three mem­bers of the various multicultural organiza­tions attended the meeting so as to introduce themselves to one another and set a collective agenda for what the council would like to accomplish over the course of the next school year. 
Outlaw 

see OMSA/ page 6 

The Observer/Meaghan Kroener Stefan Molina, a fifth-year architecture student, is one of the workers at the Cafe Poshe in Bond Hall. 


'Cafe Poshe' hidden 
•


awaytn Bond Hall 
By ANNE HOSINSKI News Writer 
A restaurant near South Quad opened its doors last semester, tucked away inside the renovated architecture building. 
Located in the lower level of Bond Hall, Cafe Poshe has a wide offering of comestibles, hoping to appeal to the palates of a wide variety of individuals. 
Dave Prentkowski, director of food services, is excited about the Cafe. Prentkowski believes the idea behind the cafe was to have a place more convenient to architecture faculty, staff and students, since other eating venues are not located in Bond Hall's immediate vicinity. 
"The whole project was dri­ven by Thomas Gordon Smith, 

director of the architecture school. His idea for style seems to fit the building tremendously," Prentkowski commented. 
The menu at Cafe Poshe is tailored around the needs of the Architecture students and faculty. 
"We offer a wide variety of foods that will appeal to all the students, faculty and staff that wish to enjoy our goods," said Noelle Miller, lead atten­dant of the cafe. 
Cafe Poshe is open for breakfast and lunch Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. until 2 p.m. 
The cafe serves baked goods, scones, and muffins for breakfast. Hummus Bee Tahini with pita, Scandinavian stuffed pita and 
see CAFE I page 4 

SafeRide returns in time for home football weekend 
Training begins Thursday for all volunteer drivers 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 

SafeRide, the widely renowned program which began last year as a way for students to return to campus safely on weekends, will resume this Friday night. 
who needs a ride back to cam­pus on a Friday or Saturday night," said Mark Higgins, stu­dent body secretary, and one of the original SafeRide dri­vers. 
"We take plenty of drunk students home from bars, but 


that is not the main point of Gillard the program," Higgins contin­ued. "If you want to go to the mall or to the movies and need a safe way of getting back, you can call us." 
The program gave rides to an average of nearly 300 student riders every weekend that it ran last year from March 7 until the end of the school year. Weekend Wheels, the program that SafeRide replaced, only had 200 riders on its busiest weekend. 
"The response that we got from the students who rode was very positive," Higgins said. "Everyone we talked with loved it. I think the best part is that it benefits all students." 
Mary Gillard, student government chief of staff, attributed this response to the generosity of the student volunteers in the program. "SafeRide was largely successful due to the commitment of Notre Dame students as dri­vers," she said in a recent press release. 
"It is a great opportunity to provide a neces­sary service to one's fellow student," Gillard added. 
Drivers work one of two shifts on Friday and Saturday night beginning at 10 p.m. Every dri­ver has to go through an hour-long training ses­sion with Notre Dame Security before they can be certified to drive. 
"The training mainly consists of watching an hour-long video and answering questions about it afterwards," explained Higgins. "It is not very 
see SAFERIDE I page 4 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

In black and -white 
I never really con­sidered writing to be all Mark DeBoy that important to me. I Production Manager 
never enjoyed writing; 

it was always a chore when it was required. 
When I felt I had something to say that was 
of real importance, I could more easily 
vocalize it rather than waste the time and 
effort it would take to write it down. I was 
also never really any good at writing. {Read 
on, you'll see). 

But recently, I've had a change of heart. 
The reasons for this change are some of the 
same reasons that I never enjoyed writing. 
First of all, writing does take a fair 
amount of effort. It forces the writer to actu­
ally think about what they are putting down 
on paper. I'd probably make a lot more 
sense and be a lot less annoying if I spent 
more time writing things down and less time 
spurting out unconsidered comments. 
Writing down an argument or idea forces the 
author to think about what they're trying to 
say, and it helps them to clarify their ideas 
or find holes in their arguments. {But don't 
think writing is a fool-proof way to keep 
from sounding like an idiot. Remember: 
Rush Limbaugh is a best selling author.) 
There is yet another aspect to writing 
that makes it so important: once you put 
something down on paper, it's real hard to 
take back, change or bend to a new slant. 
This permanence can be good or come back 
to haunt you if you're not careful. It also 
forces most people to be honest. {This isn't 
always the case. See earlier Limbaugh com­
ment.) No one likes to get caught in a lie, 
especially one they've written down for 
everyone to read. 

So what do my ideas on the written word 
have to do with anything that the Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's community might care 
about? Well I thought you might ask, and 
since I have a lot of space left to use, I'll tell 
you. 

All of you are probably aware that 
recently the University administration com­
posed and published "The Spirit of 
Inclusion" statement. I'm not going to go into 
what the statement is or what it says, since 
you probably already know. What I am going 
to do is show how publishing this statement 
is an important step for the University. 
First of all, the statement proves that the 
University is thinking about and has taken a 
stance concerning the issue of homosexual 
students and homosexuality in general. In 
writing it down and publishing it, they have 
clarified the ambiguities that have plagued 
the University's position. The premiere 
Catholic university in the country has said 
that homosexuals should not be discriminat­
ed against, excluded or vilified in a Catholic 
community. This is not a new idea for the 
Catholic Church, but it should help to end 
some of the confusion among Catholics con­
cerning the church's official teaching on 
homosexuality. 

The statement is also important because 
there is now written proof of how the 
University views homosexuals in general. In 
other words, there is something to keep the 
University "honest" and a truly Christian 
community. 

Should homosexuals be included in the 
University's non-discrimination clause? 
Probably. But at least now there is a con­
crete starting point for homosexual students 
to argue for it to be there. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF 

News Accent David Freddoso Ashleigh Thompson Sarah Hiltz Graphics Sports Tom Roland Matt Reynolds Production 
Brian Reinthaler Michelle Krupa Viewpoint Sarah Hiltz Kelly Brooks Lab Tech 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum Kevin Dalum 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
~-----~-----------~---. 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 3, 1997 
• WORLD AT A GlANCE 


Disgruntled postal worker opens fire, kills ex-wife 

MIAMI BEACH, Fla. 
A postal clerk left his counter to get a gun from his car Tuesday, then walked back in and shot and critically wounded his ex-wife and her friend as the two women waited in line. 
After the shooting, the clerk walked outside and fatally shot himself. 
The gunman was a longtime counter clerk at the post office, said a witness who had gone to check on her mail said . 
"I have known him for a long time and he has been nice," said Judy Rivas. "I even smiled at him as he walked behind me." 
The U.S. Postal Service identified the gun­man as 64-year-old Jesus Antonio Tamayo, and said he worked for the service for 21 years. 
When he saw the two women walk in about 1 p.m., Tamayo went outside to his car and returned a few minutes later with a gun, said police spokesman Bobby Hernandez. 
Lawyers argue over King murder case 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Attorneys for James Earl Ray say their client should have gotten a trial in 1969 when a judge died days after receiving Ray's request to withdraw his guilty plea. Two days after confessing to the assassi­nation of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Ray sought to withdraw his plea, sending a letter to Shelby County Criminal Court Judge W. Preston Battle. Battle died of a 

heart attack five days later. Ray's attorneys were expected to fie a petition today in Davidson County Chancery Court in Nashville. The petition, which seeks Ray's immediate release on bond, cites a state law that allows a new trial when a judge dies while considering a motion. "He has an automatic right to a trial," attorney Andrew Hall said Monday from his office in Wartburg, Tenn. Ray has been seeking a trial in a separate court action in Memphis. In that court, the 69-year­old Ray has argued the hunting rifle found at the murder scene with his fmgerprints on it was put there to frame him. The Tennessee Court of Criminal Appeals ruled Friday that Ray may continue trying to show he didn't fire the bullet that killed King. However, the court admonished Criminal Court Judge Joe Brown and fellow Judge John Colton Jr. for exceeding their authority to investigate Ray's claims. Ray, who is serving a 99-year sentence , has tried for more than 28 years to take back his guilty plea. 


Castro laughs at death rumors 
MEXICO CITY 
In his first public appearance since rumors of his death swept the Cuban exile community, Fidel Castro joked about the rumors, according to reports Tuesday from Havana. Last week, a Miami television station reported on talk that Castro had fallen ill or died. The rumors spilled into other Spanish-language radio and television reports and cafes in Miami's Little Havana. But reporters reached by telephone in Havana said the Cuban leader elicited laughs several times during a Monday night cer­emony -commemorating the start of the school year. He looked tan and relaxed, they said, as if he had been away for a few days of vacation. "If we don't bother to respond, they will create a problem," said Castro about the rumors. "We all have to die someday. If it happens, how do we convince people that it is true?" Castro, 71, wore an olive-green military uniform and spoke energet­ically to a crowd of hundreds of schoolehildren, teachers and officials. Numerous members of the Communist Party's ruling Politburo, including Vice President Carlos Lage, attended the speech, which lasted nearly an hour. It was Castro's first public speech since April 4. 

"As soon as they walked in, they saw him leave through the back," he said. "Then he came back in through the front doors and shot them." 
Each victim was shot once and Tamayo then left. 
"He exited the post office, went to a tree, looked up in the air and shot himself in the face," Hernandez said. 
Another witness, Amy Reed, said she saw people fleeing the post office. "Dogs were barking, people were scream­ing and running towards me," she said. Hernandez said Tamayo had divorced his ex-wife, Manuela Acosta, 62, four years ago. 
The post office is only a few blocks from the oceanside mansion where designer Gianni Versace was shot to death in July. Suspect Andrew Cunanan, who had been linked to killings in three other states, was later found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. 

Thailand returns Cambodian fire 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia 
Coup leader Hun Sen ignored King Norodom Sihanouk's appeal for peace talks Tuesday, and stray shells from Hun Sen's fight with forces of his ousted rival hit across the border in Thailand. The Thai army -intent o.n keeping the Cambodian lighting on its frontier from spilling into Thailand -retaliated for Tuesday's stray shells by firing artillery and mortars into Cambodia. No Thai injuries were reported. The resistance at the border village of O'Smach shows no sign of ending. After being pursued across northern Cambodia by Hun Sen's bigger, better­equipped army, fighters for Prince Norodom Ranariddh­the king's son-have stubbornly fought from mine-ringed hilltops for more than two weeks. Thai officers, mean­while, said Hun Sen had deployed 300 troops and fresh artillery to reinforce its assault forces at the border. U.S. Ambassador Kenneth Quinn also met Tuesday with Sihanouk in the northern town of Siem Reap. Details of their talks were not disclosed. In a letter to the king Tuesday, Hun Sen made no mention of the ailing monarch's offer that Hun Sen's faction and Ranariddh's hold informal peace talks under the king's guidance. Ranariddh, from exile in Bangkok, Thailand, has agreed to enter talks but refused to return to Cambodia -where he faces arrest by Ilun Sen. Purges by Hun Sen's victori­ous forces after his July 5-6 coup have prompted thou­sands of Cambodians to flee abroad. 

Young Americans getting fat 

CHICAGO 
Hold the chips and pass the broccoli! Only 1 percent of American young people ages 2 to 19 eat healthy diets, a study found. On average, young people in that age group receive 40 percent of their energy from fat and added sugar rather than eating well-rounded diets of a variety of foods, according to the study published Tuesday in the September issue of the journal Pediatrics. The U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends eating six to 11 servings of grain each day, three to five serv­ings of vegetables, two to four of fruit, two to three of dairy products and five to seven ounces of meat. The guidelines call for 10 percent or less in fat and added sugar. Sixteen percent of 3,307 young people interviewed in a nationwide telephone survey conducted by the USDA between 1989 and 1991 did not meet any of the federal guidelines on nutrition. Only 30 percent met the dietary recommendations for fruit, grain, meat and dairy, while 36 percent ate the recommended amount of vegetables. Only 1 percent met all five requirements. Bad eat­ing habit'> in childhood can lead to disease later in life, includ­ing heart problems associated with too much fat, and osteo­porosis from low calcium intake, said Dr. Kathryn Munoz, one of the study's authors. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 3.
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 



~ -
r:··L
·~,, ....,...., ..,./'"""""'''''"''''''''''""'''"" ···. 'q. 
Wedn~sday~ •'77 57 



Thursday -(f 63 Friday -(f 

FRONTS:

Saturday ~ 

"T""'""r .....__._ ....-ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CJ 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure
Sund~y 

H L ED ISS! all 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT: CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 88 70 New York 73 64 St. Louis 71 63 Cincinnati 71 60 Omaha 75 53 San Diego 81 70 Detroit 63 50 Paris 70 59 Toledo 86 68
~'~'~q~~ {) ~ u Houston 93 70 Pittsburgh 66 58 Wichita 75 67 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Memphis 83 73 Reno 84 52 Warsaw 75 48 
Via Associated Press GraohicsNet 

~------~------------~---------------~--------------~~-----------~--------~----~~-----------~ 
Wednesday, September 3, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Art in Motion...




'History' and 'societY' 
on display at Moreau 
By SARAH CORKREAN laborating with a place,' helps Saim Marv's News Editor me··understandwhat I want to 

An exhibit commemorating the Sisters of the Holy Cross and a collection of photographs of people who have been injured by toxic chemical expo­sure comprise two art exhibits in the Moreau Galleries at Saint Mary's College. 
"An Installation" by Shawn Skabelund commemorates the founders and history of Saint Mary's College. The art work considers the surroundings of Saint Mary's and the work of the first sisters here. Skabelund's installations show his desire to create art that gives viewers time and space to think about the local communi­ties, economies and ecosystems they inhabit. 
"It is my hope that my art ini­tiates questions which remind viewers of theii: importance, responsibility, and place on earth and in the order of things" said Skabelund. 
His exhibit explores the histo­ry of Saint Mary's College, which he researched to learn how the interaction between the wild and the human ele­ments determines the direction and cultural makeup of the local community. 

"This research," said Skabelund, "which I call 'col-say in my work and what I 
want to share with my audi· 
ence.'' 

The second exhibit on display, "Tile Dispossessed Project" by Rhonda Zwillinger, is a collec­tion of black and white pho-. tograp~s and hiographit:;'al anecdote$. This project depicts the. plight of people who have been injured by toxic chemical exposure and now live as best th~y can with the condith?U called Multiple Chemical Sensitivities. Zwillinge:r. who is chemically injured, believes that socialconsciousness can be raised through art. 
''Art h~s always·held the power to raise social conscious­ness, to evoke reactions that initiate change and to educate the public of specific problems," sai.d Zwillinger. "Art toucli~s our lives and we are never the same." 
Zwillinger's work has been exhibited all throughout Northern and Western Europe, Canada,. and the United States~ 
·Both exhibits opened this past weekend and will run until October 3; Gallery hours M Saint Mary's are 10 a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.. Tuesday through Friday; 1 o 
a.m. to noon on Saturday; and 1 
p.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday. 
"ALL INCLUSIVE" PARTY PAK
FREE 
PLUS UP $200 OFF PER ROOM 
COUPON REQUIRED DIRECT BOOKINGS ONLY GUARANTEED BEST PRICES 

1-800-SURFS-UP 
www.!'>tudcntcx >rcss.curn HUURY-I.IMITED OI'I'EU 






Attention Seniors!!! 
You don't want to miss your ONLY opportunity to have your Senior portrait taken! Portrait sittings are 
September I-September I 9· 
Where: 

Questions: 
page 3 

S
outh Bend native George Rickey's works of kinetic sculp­ture (pictured below) are on dis­play in the Snite Museum of Art through Sept. 14, in honor of his 90th birthday. The 18 marquettes, or work­ing models, depend on air currents to shape their stainless steel forms into varying configurations. Rickey will visit the Snite on Sept. 13. Continuing at the Snite through Sept. 14 is "Spirit Ascendent: The Art and Life of Patrocino Barela," a collection of wood carvings by the late Mexican­American artist (shown above and left). 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 3, 1997 

London 
continued from page 1 
Many students and faculty have expressed their views on what the experience has meant to them and have voiced their desire to continue the program to the staff. 
"I would be very sad to see the program discontinued. I learned so much and want to be able to recommend the pro­gram to my friends," said stu­dent Jenny Wejman. 
According to Feigel, she has received numerous calls and visits from both faculty and students expressing their won­derful experiences on the London Program. 
"I have heard nothing but positive feedback from both students and faculty, and I also want to see the program continue. It's just a matter of deadlines at this point," stressed Feigel. 

Cafe 
continued from page 1 
deli sandwiches, and a variety of soups and salads are avail­able during the lunch hours. Throughout the entire d,ay, cappuccino and other flavored coffees are available for pur­chase by all students. 
During the evening hours (8-12 p.m. Sunday through Thursday), pizzas, soft pret­zels and breadsticks fill the menu. 

Since Cafe Poshe's formal opening in January, business has been slowly growing as people become more familiar with it. 
"The location on Campus is great -near the computer labs and near the archies who are there all hours in the stu­dios," Miller said. 
"Our European interior look is very nice, although I wish that I had a window," she added. 

Saferide 
continued from page 1 
difficult, but unfortunately, it is necessary." 
According to Higgins, the number of students who apply to drive for SafeRide will determine whether drivers will be expected to take shifts one or two times in a semes­ter. 
"Last year we had perhaps 20 drivers," he estimated. 
"This year we hope to have 
50 to 100. This will give  us  
much  more  flexibility  in  
scheduling."  

The first training program is this Thursday at 4 p.m. in the student government office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. The session is expected to probably last until 6 p.m. 
Students who are interested in riding SafeRide this coming weekend can call 631-9888 any time between 10 p.m. and 3 a.m. to be picked up. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
All in favor of a ljttle GAMBLING say
• 





''AYE!'' 
Okay, so it's not really gambling but come out to Stepan Center and play the 
Ticket Lottery 
Winners become eligible to buy two tickets to the Purdue game. It all starts at 4:00 p.m. on Wednesday...One lottery ticket per student ID, two ID's per student ...Drawing begins at 6:40 
Need not be present to win 


--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~------~--~--------~-----------­
Wednesday, September 3, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 



'Rich get richer' among tribes Congress sets sights on 
regions get as much as $1,000 per "All tribes have needs, but the 
trade issues, budget
capita and more, according to an tribes with the greatest needs and 
on the campus ofNotre Dame 
football weekend fun!" 
Phone (219) 631-2000 

• Grilled Burgers & Brats • Notre Dame Souvenirs 

~~leemF? ._e:t Jlli~ JUfy
• 
Cold Beverages • All under a Large tent 

• 
Big ScreeiJ T.V.s • Fri. 3:00pm-1 O:OOpm 


Thursday, .Sept. 4 from 5:00-7:00 
• Music • Sat. 9:00am-7:00pm 

On Fieldhouse Mall 
Dining Room Cocktail Lounge 

$2 gets you all the pizza, bread­
• Casual Dining Serving • Sandwich and Appetizer Daily, Breakfast, Menu Available Daily 

sticks and soda you want!
Lunch, and Dinner 

• Popular Campus 
• Reservations Gathering Spot Recommended 

U93 FM Will Be Broadcasting LIVE 
By PHILIP BRASHER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Few groups of people in America are poorer or more dependent on the federal govern­ment than the Rosebud Sioux in South Dakota. One of every two tribal members on its barren reservation can't find work. 
But the Bureau of Indian Affairs provides funds to the Rosebud Sioux at a fraction of the rate it does many wealthier tribes because of the wide disparities fu how the agency distributes money. 
The Rosebud Sioux receive about $225 per tribal member from the BIA, while tribes in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. the Pacific Northwest and other Associated Press analysis. Some poorest situations should be, at the tribes in Oklahoma and elsewhere least, given some level of prefer­ByTOMRAUMreceive less than $100 per capita. ence," said Sen. Slade Gorton, R­
Associated Press Writer

It's as if the government were to Wash. give Connecticut, a relatively Gorton inserted a provision in WASHINGTONwealthy state, five times as much the Interior Department's 1998 Lawmakers began returningas assistance as Mississippi. appropriation bill that would from their summer recess onAnd the gap between tribes require tribes to begin reporting Tuesday with leaders pledginggrows year by year: Annual fund­their income to the BIA. It's a first 
not to let differences over

ing increases are made at the step toward requiring BIA to fund spending billssame rate for every reservation. tribes according to need. 
force another"The rich get rich and the poor BIA officials say it's politically 

government

get poorer," said Russell "Bud" impossible for them to redistribute 
shutdown.

Mason, chairman of North the money. 
But they alsoDakota's Three Affiliated Tribes. The agency funds almost every conceded sev­The Senate, however, is set to function of tribal government on 

eral thorny

debate legislation this month that reservations like the Rosebud, issues need to could lead to relatively wealthy from social services, to law 
be resolved

tribes being cut off the federal enforcement, land management 

this fall. Bill Clinton 

dole. and road maintenance. 
President Clinton, meanwhile, might see the coming weeks as a fresh opportunity to use his line-item veto power. 
''I'm not interested in creating confrontational issues -or avoiding them," Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., told reporters, as he outlined the Senate's agenda for the COIJ?.ing weeks. 
The Senate returned from its month-long recess on Tuesday; the House is back Wednesday. 
Both Lott and House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, warned that a priority item of Clinton's -so-called fast-track authority for negotiating trade agreements -could be in jeop­ardy. 
Lott predicted "rough sled­ding" if Clinton insists on tying the authority to new conces­sions to labor and environmen­talists. 
And little enthusiasm was voiced on either side of the Capitol for another item on the administration's wish list­campaign finance reform. 
Lott said he wants to wait until the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, chaired by Sen. Fred Thompson, R-Tenn., finishes its review of 1996 cam­paign misdeeds "to see which (existing) laws were broken." That committee resumes work on Thursday. 
Among the difficult issues Lott listed for the coming months were a partisan battle over how the 2000 census is conducted, reform of the Food and Drug Administration, regulatory reform and subsidies for Amtrak. 
Topping the list for both chambers is action on the 13 appropriations bills needed to keep the government function­ing after the start of the new fis­cal year, Oct. 1. 
None has been enacted. The measures are in various stages of completion. 
"We've got a lot of catchup to do on the appropriations bills" because so much energy went into getting the balanced-budget agreement passed, Armey said. 
July's landmark agreement, which sets spending targets, makes a repeat of the govern­ment shutdowns of two years ago far less likely. 
Republicans took most of the political heat for those shut­downs, in late 1995 and early 1996, and don't want to get stuck with the blame again. 
In addition, Clinton now has the line-item veto, which he exercised for the first time in early August. 
The authority allows him to strike specific programs from spending bills, rather than hav­ing to veto entire measures that could result in the shutdown of different governmental func­tions. 
A new court challenge is expected from those who think giving that veto power to the president was an unconstitu­tional transfer of power from Congress. 
Clinton issued three line-item vetoes on Aug. 11 -the first time any president has used the power -but Congress was in recess. Congress has 30 days to challenge them. 
Armey said Tuesday that a decision hadn't yet been made on whether to try to overturn Clinton's three vetoes -one of a Medicare spending measure that would have benefited New York, and the other two of nar­rowly-focused tax breaks. 
He cited some reluctance on the part of Republicans to chal­lenge the initial line-item vetoes. "We wanted the president to have the line item veto. We expected him to use it," Armey said. 
Among the probable addition­al targets for Clinton's veto pen is money to build more B-2 stealth bombers, which the White House opposes. The House defense appropriations bill contains $505 million for the program, $331 million more than Clinton requested, and some B-2 money is expected to be in the Senate version. 


THE B~TTER PIZZA PEOPLE 


Class of 2000 
------~~ '~ -~ ~ ~-------~ ~--~ -----~--~-~--------------~-------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 3, 1997 
OMSA 
continued from page 1 
Over the course of the meeting, Outlaw explained OMSA's theme for the new school year: "Expanding the Horizon: The Fine Art of Cultural Appreciation." 
"We realize that many students felt last year that we were a secret office for students of color," Outlaw said. "This year we will make a concerted effort to let residents know of all our programs. We want our mem­bers to encourage someone of different ethnicity to attend their events." 
Last year, OMSA provided peer advisors for all students of different ethnic origins as well as workshops on such issues as gender, sexual orientation, and relationships. 
The council meeting was also attended by Steven Gomez, the Diversity Chair for the new Griffin/Nass student govern­ment and student senator Matt Szabo. The two encouraged the members of the council to share their concerns and ideas with the new Student Senate in order to make multiculturalism an issue of paramount impor­tance at Notre Dame. 
Among the planned events mentioned by Outlaw and Huie were OMSA sponsored dances, the production of a Fine Arts Series, the concert of Cuban jazz guitarist Renee Toledo on Sept. 13th, and a trip to Chicago for those member stu­dents staying on campus over Fall Break. 
The Council also listened to a proposal from the Center for Social Concerns in which a partnership would be formed between Notre Dame and the Community Schools Corporation in the South Bend 
area. Under the new proposal, student organizations would give presentations at area ele­mentary and high schools to provide teaching skills for the Notre Dame students and edu­cation on various issues to the secondary school students. While interest in the proposal was strong, no agreements were made. 
Since taking up his position as the new assistant director, Huie has introduced "Out of the Shadows," the official newslet­ter of OMSA. "Shadows," which will be published every three -months, presents articles that deal with campus wide ethnic issues. 



satellite test 
i!IIT"'-E:· br7·.····)J th~. Army hich is in charge reaty or legislation barring oft~e laser,has alr~adytested such an experiment. He point­It ·r~;p. a Yati~ty ofthings.'r · "ed out that America's national 
'')iguess they felt that there ;space policy "allows us to con­was a satellite reaching the sider ways to protect our en?<ofits life, and ~~ might be .assets in space and to control 
a:n. apptopriate tbne to try to . space to the extent necessary test it," Bacon said. to protect our national security 
~~ deci~l~n ha_? ~een made interests." yetonwh~tlier to test thelaser s• But Pentagon officials. in space, Bacon said. He could speaking privately, noted the l'l;qtpredict whe~ the ll1atter Wissue is a thorny one that might reliJih Defense Secretary could well have international William Cohen for a decision. political and diplomatic impli-
Bacon there was no cations. 



·""·. 

WASHINGTON Pentagon officials are con· 
.. $idertgg fir~li&'_il· ground-based laser against a: dying space satellite, defense spokesman Ken Bacon said Tuesday; 
· T would involve a rnll· itary laser located at White $ands, N.M.. and an Air Force satellite that has reached the end of'its useful lifespan. 
The spokesman noted that 


Extra VIrgin 

Actually ... just go ahead and 
recycle everything. 
5ifo0£' /o Dance 

Zooe /o HiP-HOP? 

Informational Meeting When: Sunday, September 7 Where: Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Time: 7:00pm 


CJ::: wants u.J 

Positions available for: 
~ 
u.J 
(f) 


STORE HOURS: MON-SAT: lOAM-lOPM; SUN: 11AM-7PM 
Wilshire Pla:z:a, Mishawaka, 271-0696 
3Hl 

81·8551·097 









VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 3, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks 
Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
Business Manager Tom Roland 
Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe studems of the Universicy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Coliege. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint EditOr, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saine Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Edimr. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  63 I -4542  Business Office  63I-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-747I  
Acccnt/Saim Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  63 I -5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  63I-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  
• Goo 'N liFE  

Keeping Art 'in the World' not 'of the World' 

When it comes to taking pen in hand, I am many things: nov­elist, poet, researcher, journal­ist, and playwright. Throw in my interest in liturgical music, theatre, dance and sports, and it makes for a busy life. 
Julie Ferraro 

In the midst of all these activi­ties, it helps to maintain a focus on what's really important. I strive to emphasize this in everything I write. I put extra effort into the plays since they transcend the page into visual art, and one learns much from seeing life in action. Personally enjoying family-oriented enter­tainment, I wouldn't want chil­dren to see anything that was suggestive or pornographic in nature, so I don't write that way. Granted, sometimes others in theatre ask me why, and I tell them: God gave me the tal­ent; I can only use it to praise Ilim. 
I started writing when I was 11 vears old. Around that same tim~. I br-gan participating in my church's folk choir. Piano instruction provided the back­ground for me to be an organist on Sunday. My lovr, of reading helped me be a lector, pro­claiming God's Word. My poetry reflects all the wondrous things God does in the world. The plays go far and beyond this, though, because they express dialogue -relationships -and how they can be improved or destroyed. 
For this reason. I avoid including a lot of "popular" lan­guage in my scripts. Obscenities are not necessary to move a scene forward. A character's personality may be indicated by continual swearing, but there are other ways to convey the idea. When creating plots, I give consideration to the years my faith has stood me in good stead. Suggestive love scenes ­in or out of the bedroom ­need not be detailed. When a married couple retires for the evening, other married couples in the audience will know they retire to the same bedroom. Single people retiring for the night, in my opinion, should have separate bedrooms. I pro­claim it clearly in my dialogue that such is the situation. I always remember that things done on stage -or on the movie or television screen ­can lead an audience to believe that we have unspoken approval to do likewise. rcan­not, in good conscience, put my name on anything that will lead others into sin. 
Of course, many organizations that publish plays, and both amateur and professional the­atres, do not look kindly on my approach to life. The trend these days is for "dark" theatre­stories without hope, stories of unceasing struggle. For this reason, I have had a difficult time getting my plays produced. I never give up hope, however, doing a bit of "homemade" marketing, sending flyers about my plays to every theatre for which I can find an address. 
My reasoning for this is that I see playwrights as having a 

tremendous responsibility to touch, however, putting comedy their public, as do all artists. in my mysteries, or music in a Not only does our art give oth­spy adventure. ers cause to think and explore It has been my philosophy their own emotions, it can be a that theatre is entertainment, means to guide them to the One which provides a temporary _ who has planted these creative escape from the troubles of the seeds in us. Or, wrongly used, it day. We all need a break, after can disturb people and turn all, and the occasional good them away. laugh. I think even God likes a 
While I do not write it, I do good laugh now and then. By recognize that there is a place using my faith to create positive for "socially conscious" theatre. characters and realistic plots, I All people, at various points, hope to bring out the potential are socially conscious in our liv­within myself and everyone to ing: facing illness, tragedy, or make this a better world. My death. r try to keep a "lighter" conscience continues to be my guide, a conscience formed by decades of involvement in the church. Art can be "in the world, not of the world," if the artist refuses to sacrifice morals for "art." I'm willing to make that sacrifice. 
Julie Ferraro is an adminis­trative assistant in the Development Office at Moreau Seminary. Her column runs every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 

~~~----~-­

VIEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, September 3, 1997 
• AWAKENINGS 

'Spirit of Inclusion's' Shortcomings are a Call to Action 
The officers' group decision to adopt the "Spirit of Inclusion" at Notre Dame in all University publications was met with mixed reactions last week. Those among the gay and lesbian community generally feel as though they have once again been sold short by the University; some student campus leaders feel as though the system through which they labored to effectuate change failed them; other campus leaders feel encour­aged. though not completely satisfied; and hall rectors seem to feel better equipped to condemn harassment and bashing in dormitories. 

J.P. Cooney 
As St. Edward's Hall rector Father David Scheidler pointed out at Monday's Campus Life Council meeting, the "Spirit of Inclusion" at Notre Dame is a proac­tive document, calling the Notre Dame community to a higher standard of moral conduct. This succinct statement of that calling is a positive step forward that we cannot overlook. It is a model for how we as Christians should conduct ourselves. 
At the same time, we must understand that the truth of the matter is that the "Spirit of Inclusion" at Notre Dame does not change University policy at all. This was admitted by Professor Patricia O'Hara at a Morrissey Mass on Sunday and by Bill Kirk at the CLC's first meet­ing on Monday. Sexual orientation and gender remain legitimate bases for dis­crimination in the "administration of [Notre Dame's] educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs" (du Lac, 
• lETTERS To THE EmroR 
p. 4). It seems that the University administration has chosen to exempt itself from the higher standard of con­duct which it calls the rest of the com­munity to abide by. 
This fact is embarrassing and lies in direct violation of the spirit of U.S. civil law and more importantly the teachings of the Catholic faith. A friend of mine pointed out to me the other day that the Bible speaks not of inclusion but rather of equity, justice and emancipation. Without a legally binding statement of non-discrimination, homosexuals remain inherently unequal to heterosex­uals; and all men and women are sub­ject to potential injustice without protec­tion on the basis of gender. 
Despite these blatant shortcomings in University policy, there remains reason for all students to be encouraged by this action and others taken by the Office of Student Affairs with regard to du Lac over the summer. It is the direct result of student activism that the "Spirit of Inclusion" at Notre Dame was drafted, and that modest but important changes were made to duLac. 
One need not look hard to notice dif­ferences between last year's version of du Lac and this year's. This year's ver­sion is much more user friendly and inviting, including attractive pictures, comprehensive lists of student services and appropriate contact-persons, fre­quently asked questions and answers, and an opportunity for our student body president and vice president to formally welcome students to the Notre Dame community. Even the official title of du Lac improved from "Student Life Policies and Procedures" to "A Guide to Student Life"-a much more appealing and accessible title. Du Lac has at least taken a small step toward being of actu­al assistance to students, rather than simply being a headache. 
Do not get me wrong here -much like the "Spirit of Inclusion" at Notre Dame is no substitute for a legally bind­ing statement of non-discrimination, some cute pictures and helpful phone numbers do not change the fact that there is no student bill of rights and that disciplinary procedures still border on despotism. However, student concerns about discrimination and the conduct of Student Affairs were at least partially addressed this summer. They certainly were not resolved, but the mere fact that the administration has taken steps that were taken, rtor be complacent with them; we must neither simply whine about what was not accomplished, nor solely celebrate what was. Instead, we must remain insistent upon the addition of a student bill of rights to du Lac and a revised non-discrimination clause, while keeping in mind that change comes slowly. 

to try to appease students means that our message is permeating what we once thought were impermeable walls. 
Credit for these small yet critical steps forward should not go to the administra­tion, nor should it go to student govern­ment, the Judicial Council, GLND/SMC, or the College Democrats. Rather, credit belongs to the community-at-large, which mllied behind the cause of stu­dent rights and non-discrimination last semester. Students voiced their con­cerns through their hall senators, a peti­tion with more than 2,000 signatories, multiple well-attended forums and a fer­vent rally with more than 500 attendees and several more silent supporters. 
The lesson to be learned from the events of last semester and the resulting actions of the officers' group and Student Affairs is that collective action on the part of students initiates produc­tive change. The progressive view of his­tory teaches that persistency pays off; eventually fairness and justice will pre­vail. The student body of Notre Dame must neither ignore the positive steps 
What I am suggesting is that our past assumption that students have no voice is incorrect. We do have a voice. It is shameful that our voices are only heard through collective action such as a rally or petition. But if these are the avenues through which we must work to effectu­ate change, so be it. We must remember that the administration has no reason to make changes in University policy unless we demonstrate to them that changes are necessary. The key is that we must demonstrate it, not simply explain it. 
J.P. Cooney is a junior economics and government major residing in Knott Hall. He can be reached via e-mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. His column runs every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

'Game Time' Article In Poor Taste 
I am writing in regards to the article "Countdown to Game Time: T Minus Six" located in the Viewpoint section of the Monday, Sept. 1, issue of The Observer. Not only did I find por­tions of this article tactless and disgusting, but I believe that the publication of this material showed extremely poor judgement on behalf of both the author. Kevin Patrick, and the editorial staff of The Observer. 
I'll be the first to admit that some sarcasm can be appreciated. However. my problem with this article lies in the reference to John Cerasani "hypothetical" appearance at the first pep rally wherein Kevin Patrick disdainfully suggests that Cerasani would "...talk about his dying mother... " This crude attempt at jour­nalism is not humorous and is not necessary. Maybe this is intended to be an attack on the Chicago Tribune, but it comes across as a personal attack on the Cerasani family and a blatant disrespect for life. But even more upsetting, Mrs. Cerasani's severe health problem is turned into a flippant and insensitive joke. It seems to me that Mr. Patrick disregarded the emotions of a distraught family in an attempt to get a cheap laugh from the student body. How much judgment does it take to realize that this is not a joke but a serious issue that affects the lives of a close-knit family? It is evident that Mr. Patrick lacks respect for the importance of family and shows no concern for the digni­ty and well-being of his peers. 
Kevin Patrick's humor, or lack thereof, has violated his posi­tion as a student here, and the sanctity of our school. Obviously after six years Mr. Patrick still hasn't learned that Notre Dame prides itself on being an upstanding moral institution which exhibits Christian values and integrity. His insolent and misguid­ed inferences go against the fundamental premises of Notre Dame which have been established for over 150 years. Making a joke of a God-given gift, such as life, not only exhibits the failing moral character of Kevin Patrick but also illustrates that he does not possess the intelligence to make an ethical decision. 


'~~1~atio!sfi~i~~t~o~1~~~~~:~~~::!~':i'll,i•··· w~;:~~i:~~~~~~i~~::ndent 
GLND is obviously disappqinted the), student-run 84Y and lesbian organization offic ~cision. · , till.; and support group, has yetto be officially 
In addition, we find the justification recognized by the administration. Additional ·esp?use~ by.Father Malloy to be que&tion~ educfltion and discussion on homosexuality ·able.We bl)lieve itis possible to phraseth is ry,(Witltsexualorientation absent 
language of the non-discrimination clause in fr non-discrimination clause; the ~·way thflt makes a distinction between sex· University retains the right to discriminate · ualorieJ);t~tion and sexual conductt. tl!~thasi$, furthet perpetuating the accordance with Church teaching. equality between homosexual and hetero-

J.)~j.c~~J;%rrJ~y::, ··ii.:~i~~tllttfii~fa:~!~~·o~~~:' of 
a "Spirit of Inclusion" statement controversy and more cooperation between and lesbian members o{c.... (J~ MC.and the administration. As we ·\I'',~! beg ... is academic year, we lookforward to seeit1gwhat substance the University is will~ · · new words of wei· 
address.gay and lesbian student needs, pro­videstraining workshops to residence hall staff on issues related to homosexuality, and has e§tfll"dished a quasi·group through the Office of Student Affairs to explore common issues related to homosexuality within the "c()utf)xt of this community and the teachings oftlieCatholiC ChUrch." Perhaps the "Spirit of Inclusion". will continue down this path of 
progress and further provide a community environment conducive to positive debate and dialogue of gay and lesbian issues. 
CoriA. Casey 
Junior Breen-Phillips Hall September 2, 1997 
.... _..,­






ACCENT 
Wednesday, September 3, 1997 page 9 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What is your favorite dining h'all dish? 

"White bread because I can bring my own peanut butter and jelly." 
Brian Dylong Junior, Keough 

"I like the cereal because it never makes me sick." 
Nicole Peoples Junior, Farley 



"I like Kix because it's kid tested and mother approved." 
Memo Tijerina Junior, Dillon 

"Baked potatos because you make it unhealthy with cheese and bacon." 
Geoff Heiple Freshman, 0 'Neill 



"Cookie dough ice cream because the ice cream is the best." 
Jessie Chmell Freshman, Breen-Phillips 


a 

DiningHall Monitors Speak Out 
By ANDREA JORDAN Assistant Accent Editor 
Y
ou see them every time you go to the dining halls. They are the unavoidable obstacles pre­venting you from sneaking in and having your way with the bountiful supply of food and bev­erages. They check for school IDs and yes, they even frisk you if necessary to prevent more than one item per person leaving the dining hall. They are the infamous dining hall monitors. Women and some men with the faces of grandma and grandpa, but really underneath it all they -.. are hardcore police hired by the food service staff to make your day miserable by making you abide by the rules of the dining halls. 
Does the above description perfectly illustrate the dining hall monitors as students believe them to be in their minds? Rather is the appropriate name for the monitors perhaps uncaring and unfeeling individuals with a secret grudge against students? Or are these peo­ple just doing a job that they get paid for and following the rules while working? Do you constantly find yourself saying to a monitor "Why can't I have more than one apple, I pay over $26,000 a year to go here and I should be allowed to take whatever I want from the din­ing hall?" Then in a big huff, slam the extra granny smith down and go stomping out in a huff saying, "This is so stupid." Leaving behind a dis­approving monitor who is only try­ing to do her job. 

Maryann Sobieralski, the head monitor at South Dining Hall, is 62 years old and has worked for 
-
South Dining Hall almost nine years. She has been a resident of South Bend since she was seven years old. She is a full-time employee who works 40 hours a week. She is married with five chil­dren and eight grandchildren. Three of her children work here at Notre Dame. Prior to being employed by Notre Dame she and her husband owned their own business called "Lil Caesar's Tavern." After they sold their busin'ess her husband retired and she began to work for Coveleski Stadium in a concession stand; then she came to Notre Dame shortly after. This profile does not appear to be one of an individual taking part of a campus-wide conspiracy against students. 
Mrs. Sobieralski's basic job description is to take care of scheduling for the other monitors in South Dining Hall, keep track of time cards, help with Grab-n-Go, and troubleshoot for possible problems. Where is the part about make students miserable? 
Her fondest memories are the nice relationships formed with students. She likes "working with the students and for the students." What Mrs. Sobierals~i likes most about her job is the great man­agement and that's right: the students. Is anyone seeing a trend here of caring about the students? 
A common occurrence for her is students forgetting their IDs, which can result in a small non­refundable fee of $2. Wow! Two whole dollars, just to demonstrate to students the importance of carrying their identification at all times and being responsible. Perhaps Mrs. Sobieralski isn't so bad, but one good one doesn't make the rest of the monitors good. 
Jenny Glon, a dining hall monitor and lifelong resident of South Bend, 55 years old, has worked at South Dining Hall for three years. She is married with no children, but interestingly enough she has approximately 45-50 nieces and nephews. She comes from a family of 12 and she is one of the youngest. She got married 19 years ago and after 16 years of being a housewife she came to South Dining Hall to find employment. 
Her job is part-time. She fills in wherever needed, sometimes Grab-n-Go, but recently her main job has been working at the computer and doing cash sales. 
-
Some of her best memories are the theme luncheons and dinners, and football Saturdays. On theme days she likes to watch the students become more excited about the dining hall. On game days she enjoys meeting many new people. One of the things she likes most about her job is being around younger people because it makes her feel young. She evens adds that "if you don't like peo­ple, this is not the place to work." 
Apparently Mrs. Glon likes meeting new people and being around the students. Can it be possible that she does not want to throw more chaos into a student's day by asking for his ID or requesting that he pay the $2 fee for a missing ID. She even tells students cheerfully that their ID is like their best friend. Where's the sarcasm or the sadistic nature that monitors love to bestow on students? Perhaps she isn't half bad, but what about the others? ­
Theresa Kosik, age 77, a lifelong resident of South Bend, has worked at North Dining Hall as a monitor for nine years as a part-time employee. Mrs. Kosik has been a widow for 27 years and she has one daughter, four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren. 
Mrs. Kosik has deep roots at Notre Dame. From 1939 to 1945 she worked in South Dining Hall. Later in 1959 she returned to South Dining !-fall and worked there for 15 years. Afterwards she transferred to Corby Hall and worked there for 14 years. Then she retired in 1988 only to return again in 1989 to Notre Dame as a part-time monitor at North Dining Hall. 
In the many years she has spent as an employee at Notre Dame, Mrs. Kosik's fondest memory is working at South Dining Hall during World War II and serving 6,000 servicemen in the Armed Forces. She made $50 a month, worked six days a week, and sometimes 10 hours a day. She worked a lot of hours for a little less pay, but she was doing what she likes most as an employee of Notre Dame, being among people. Mrs. Kosik, like Mrs. Sobieralski and Mrs. Glon, likes working with the students 
Charlotte Lootens, age 58, and lifelong resident of South Bend has worked at North Dining Hall for the past 15 years. Mrs. Lootens is married with three children and two grandchildren. The first 13 years she spent working in the back of the dining hall on the dish line. Two years ago to reduce stress she became a monitor and switched from full-time to a part-time employee. 
Her best memory as an employee of Notre Dame is switching jobs and becoming part-time. What she likes most about her dining hall employment is meeting the students and making many new friends. Many of these friends she has seen graduate and leave for the working world. 
One thing all four of these women have in common is they love the students. They appear to be extremely strict about the rules because they are only trying to be the best at their jobs. They are monitors, not monsters who hope to make students miserable by throwing tons of rules and regula­
-
tions at them. Remember, they don't make the rules, they just enforce them. Instead of unloading the blame on them for the rules you are not supposed to break, think twice and treat them like you would your own grandparents. It is not part of their job to take grief from students. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 3, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 


Rodriguez propels Expos to late-inning triumph 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Henry Rodriguez's second home run of the game, a solo shot in the eighth inning, snapped a tie and sent the Montreal Expos to a 6-5 win Tuesday night over the Boston Red Sox. 
Rodriguez, who missed the previous 19 games with a strained rib muscle, hit a two-out homer, his 26th, off Mark Brandenberg (0-2). 
MontreaT improved to 11-3 in inter­league play. 
Rookie Rick DeHart (1-1) pitched two innings of relief for his first major­league win and Ugueth Urbina worked the ninth for his 24th save. Urbina walked two and struck out the side. 
Boston has lost five straight and dropped to 6-8 in interleague play. 
Rodriguez and rookie Brad Fullmer each hit two-run homers in the fourth inning off Bret Saberhagen. Fullmer's pinch-hit shot came in his first major league at-bat and gave the Expos a S-4 lead. 

John Valentin's 16th homer in the fifth tied it 5-S. 
Boston loaded the bases with two out in the eighth, but DeHart struck out rookie Michael Coleman to end the threat. 
Boston took a 2-1 lead on rookie Coleman's two-run double in the second. Mo Vaughn's 31st homer and an RBI double by Troy O'Leary in the third gave Boston a 4-1 lead. 
David Segui hit a leadoff single in the fourth and Rodriguez followed with his 25th homer to bring the Expos within 4­3. 
Rookie Jose Vidro hit a one-out dou­ble, and with two outs Fullmer, whose contract was purchased earlier in the day, pinch-hit for rookie starter Mike Thurman. He drove a 2-0 pitch from Saberhagen over the wall in right-cen­ter, becoming the first player in Expos history to homer in his first at-bat in his first major league game. 
Cubs 9, 1\vins 3 
Sammy Sosa hit a two-run homer and Tyler Houston drove in three runs Tuesday night to lead the Chicago Cubs to a 9-3 victory over the Minnesota Twins. 
Sosa hit his 32nd homer in the sixth for the Cubs, now 8-6 in interleague play. Houston hit an RBI single in the second, another in the third and a run­scoring RBI double in the fourth. 
Mark Clark (11-7} improved to 3-0 since joining the Cubs on Aug. 11 in a six-player deal with the New York Mets. 
He gave up eight hits in his second com­plete game this season, walking none and striking out four. 
Bob Tewksbury (5-11), who has more wins against the Cubs than any other 
· team with 11, allowed 10 hits and five runs over three innings in his shortest outing of the season. The former National League pitcher, who has a career .130 average, did hit an RBI sin­gle in the second. The loss snapped the Twins three­game winning streak. Ron Coomer's run-scoring fielder's choice in the first gave Minnesota a 1-0 lead. Pat Meares doubled and scored on Tewksbury's single with two out in the second to make it 2-0. Sosa doubled and scored on Houston's single in the bottom of the second. The Cubs then loaded the bases and Manny Alexander singled to tie the game 2-2. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Student Assistant  NICE FURNISHED HOME GOOD  WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC  I NEED 3 STUD TIX FOR GT  l need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia  
NOTICES  to the Computer Systems Mgr. The Graduate School  AREA NORTH OF NO CLOSE 2773097  Family visiting-will pay big bucks for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028  PLEASE CALL BRIAN LUCAS @288-2423.  Tech and/or the Michigan State game!!!  
Please call Amy  
Tami's Typing Service. Will P/U & deliver.  Position requires extensive Macintosh experience,  FOR SALE  PLEASE HELP ME! I NEED:  2 GTech GA's 4 Sale Call4-4115  at 810-355-9140.  
256-9850.  preferably in a computer cluster.  wvu  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
Knowledge of MacOS. Word.  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ GEORGIA TECH  I need GA Tech tickets x2854  
SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast  Excel, Eudora, Web, FileMaker,  dic Mattress set and frame. New,  MICHIGAN STATE  STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET  
home.  PageMaker, and PowerPoint  never used, still in plastic. $225.00.  usc  CERTIFICATE WANTED!!!  
ROOMS AVAILABLE  helpful. Work 15-20 hours per  219-862-2082.  243-1806  MARRIED&SNGL BOOKS SALE  CALL PAUL@ 233-1741  
Football weekends  week. Pay: $9,000 academic­ 2321004  
219-674-0270  year stipend, or hourly rate.  94 GLX Jetta V6, 47K Power,  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
Leather, Sun-Roof, 5 Speed, Many  IRISH FANS NEED 2 TICKETS  NEED MICH STATE TIX  
SEASONS INN  Apply by September 15. Send  Extras. 1 Owner  FOR NO-STANFORD. CALL RICK  WILLING TO PAY  GEORGIA TECH GA's WANTED!!!  
Welcomes Motorhomes/Campers of  cover letter and resume to Doug  $15,500 277-3199  AT 209-379-2249.  CALL 634-0893  Paul 233-1741  
all sizes.  Franson, Mgr., Technical  
Spacious lots available.  Support, 612 Grace Hall, 631­ 92 Accord LX 2 Dr. V-4,  DOES YOUR FAMILY OR  Need a pair of LSU tickets. Have a  I have 2 Georgia Tech GA's. Will  
Reserve Now 219-674-0270.  4662, dfranson@ nd.edu  72,000K Power, Auto, 1 Owner  FRIENDS NEED A PLACE TO  pair of USC, Michigan, or Stanford  exchange for 2 USC GA's. Call Rob  
Good Shape $8,500 277-3199  STAY FOR THE MICHIGAN  tickets to trade. Call 901-755-4273.  h(214)351-6775  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  RecSports seeks Flag Football offi·  STATE GAME (9/20)? I HAVE 3  w(214)855-1180.  
LaFortune Student Center  cials for the upcoming season.  USED TEXT BOOKS FOR SALE - EXTRA ROOMS AVAILABLE AT  FOR SALE: 2 GA Georgia Tech  
Store Hours  Sports/officiating background is pre­ 30%-40% DISCOUNTS.  THE RESIDENCE INN ON NILES  lies. Call Kristin @ (201 )963-8863  I have BC GA's. Will trade for any  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  ferred but not required. Call Mark  PANDORA'S BOOKSTORE  AVE. APPROX. 5 MIN. FROM  and leave best offer.  game but WV. Call Jill  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  Heitkamp at 631-6100 for clinic  808 HOWARD STREET  CAMPUS. GREAT DEAL!!I FOR  {440)779-9691.  
Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m.  dates.  MORE INFO. CALL KESHA AT  Married student ticket for sale 271­ 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  86Mazda 626 runs good. New tires,  634-1482.  1715 after 7pm  I NEED USC AND BC GA'S  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  Wanted: Used road bike  exh, alter, brakes. $2200 obo. Chris  CALL DAVE @ 634-4905 $$  
Phone 631-COPY  Call Aaron at 634-4346  x1512.  Senior ticket booklet 4 sale  
50 yd. line  Looking to buy 1 Ga. Tech ticket.  2 stud tix for sale. all home games.  
High School Junior needs tutor(s)  Make me an offer  Call Chip @ 634-3101.  Call4-3313  
ILOST & FOU~D I  for Chemistry, Algebra II, & English Comp. Should be able to answer questions and help review for  Contemporary lakefront home for sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2 acre, $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1­ 634-3314 For Sale:  St. ticket book for sale. call 232-3040  NO ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097  
exams. Prefer to schedule tutor 2  888-225-RUTH.  Senior Ticket Booklet  
A PAIR OF RED PRESCRIPTION  times during school week, & on  To Best Offer  NEED 3 G.T. GA's  MARRIED STUD.T.BOOKS FOR  
SUNGLASSES FOUND IN JULY  occasion, a Sunday session. Prefer  New Twin Size Bed $80 Computer  Call: 243-2645  call Tony@ X3489  SALE. 283-0920  
WHILE WALKING AROUND ST.  ' tutor to come to home (1 Omin. from  Desk $20 634-4243  
JOSEPH LAKE ON NO CAMPUS.  NO), but, student can drive to  NEEDED: 1 Georgia Tech ticket  I have a BIG Irish family  ################  
COME IN TO THE OBSERVER  tutor's location. Call 282-3631 dur­ 2 FOBLL TIKTS. ONLY $600. CALL  Will pay $$! Call Brian 4-1680  I need tix  for sale:  
OFFICE AT 314 LAFORTUNE OR CALL  ing the day, or 272-9211 evenings/weekends.  2773254 OR6313912.  I need 2 GA's for G'Tech garne.  home & away GA & student  2 Georgia Tech STUDENT TICKETS  
631-7471 & ASK FOR SHIRLEY.  MACINTOSH LC  Matt X1611  call 273-9249  call Jenny @ 687-8435  
BABYSITIER WANTED FOR  COMPUTER. $300 OBO.  ################  
Seniors! Did you lend a hat to a  ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES  CALL BRYAN 4-1835  Married Student Tickets for  NEED TO TRADE: I have 4 W.Va's  
random stranger at camping out  CALL 2339728.  Sale. Call219-2736124  and need 4 for Navy. Call Connie  Need 1 Mich. St. ticket  
last Tuesday? To claim a (well­worn) white "PA, Andover Squash"  WANTED: Lead guitarist to join  after6pm.  at 243-2794.  Call Dave 4-2055 9/4-9/6  
hat, call Amber, 634-3719.  set 5 piece band. Need at least  1993 Honda Sports Coupe  NEEDED: Two Michigan State  I have 2 Ga. Tech GAs  
- WANTED  5 years experience. Call Shane: X1879  Book Value $8900-Selling for $6000/0BO. 5Sp,Air,Tint,AIIoy Whls,Viper Alarm,lnfinity6Spr w/12Disc Changer. Taking Best Ofr  I NEED 4 TICKETS TO MICHIGAN ST. CALL MICHELLE AT 4-2377  GAs. Will Pay $$$$. 273.5056 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS  I'll trade for 2 USC GAs, or take best offer. Call Pat at {612) 917-7955  
PART-TIME WORK  Need 2 GAs for Mich St & USC Call  by 9-15. Must Sell! Rob243.9277  TRADE ANY HOME GAME GA nx  BUY -SELL -TRADE  ~~$~~s~~~~~$~S~s~s~~~s~s~  
Local company filling 15  Jaret 233-5620 or Eric 4-0872  (SAVE USE) FOR MSU  NEED 1 G-TECH GA FOR  
openings by sept. 7. Earn  88 Pontiac Grand Am/99,000 mi ..  (517)337 -2384  232-0058  UTILE SISTER.  
$10.25 starting. Flexible hours around classes. 282-2357  FOR RENT  Black 2-dr with Cassette/Radio, air.cond., new trans., and good  Looking for GA's to Any & All  CONFIDENTIAL  CALL BRIAN AT 4-4992 $~$?$~$?$2~2~~~~~2~2$?$2~2  
exterior/interior. Call Ray @ 232­ NO Games!  TICKET-MART. INC.  
95' Alumni need many BC GA Tix. 246-0849-ask for Kristin WANT TO EARN SOME EXTRA$$  WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595  5610. TICKETS  Will Beat Any Offer! Will Trade Any Home Game for LSU. Call634-4872  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  PERSONAL FREE FACIAL & MKOVR  
- BY CARING FOR THREE ADORABLE CHILDREN? NEED  IT'S NOT TOO LATE- Exchange 2 Michigan State for 2  WANTED: 3 MICHIGAN STATE  w/ Mary Kay Call Margrette 2845099  
TUES, WED, OR FRI A.M.  A newly remodeled 5 bedroom  USC. If interested call Stephanie.  GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE CALL  BUYING BUYING BUYING  
CALL 287-9669.  house is Still available to rent for the  284-5050  634-4196,  N.D GA ONLY  Renee? Renee?  
fall semester. 2 full baths, washers  LEAVE MESSAGE.  SEASON TICKETS 277-1659  Or is it Sarah K.  
BABYSITIER WANTED FOR ALL  and dryer, huge rec room, security  Need 4 GAs for Georgia Tech.  BUYING BUYING BUYING  
HOME FOOTBALL GAMES $40.00 PER GAME. CALL 233-9728  system. Call now to take a look 277-0636. AVAILABLE!  Call Phil at (317) 271-3393 I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO HOME GAMES.272-6551  I HAVE 2 GA TECH GA'S Looking to trade for 2 Mich. St. GA's, or any other GA's. Call Dan x1881  GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ED BY LOCAL COMPANY PLEASE CALL 273-6929  Betsy can't drink as well as a sink...love ya and see you at the rematch  
! ATHLETE'S DREAM! Have you always wanted a pro ath­lete's income? Rapidly growing health and nutrient co.  2BRM, 1 1/2 BA, full bsmt, priv. deck. 711 E. Washington. $500 mo. Dep nego, lease term nego. 288­3410  Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W. Virginia tickets. Call at {609)259­1731 or during the day  HELP! Need 2 tickets (stu. or ga) for Georgia Tech .. Kelly 4-3738  Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service.  Room 454: Are you ready for your walking tacos tonight? (well, except for Marcie)  
is expanding locally. No phone interviews. 271-0912 ext 10  (201 )316-4117. Leave message.  For Sale: Two GA tix, Ga Tech, BC and West Va. 287-1449  Call 234-5650.  MEMORIAL AIDS QUILT COMING TO CAMPUS  
Bd & Brft all football weekends  NEED: 2 tix-Mich. State garne-Sept.  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  
STUDENTS! Want to make 1-2k average monthly? Expanding International  near campus call 219-272-5989 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  20. Will pay $$. Call Paul­(773)525-9373.  Need 4 USC GAs. Will buy or trade 4 Ga. Tech. Call 634-3806  FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726  IF INTERESTED CALL ERIN AT 4-3857  
- sports nutrient co. Looking for motivated students looking for flexible hours. No p;hone interviews. 271-0912 ext11  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  NEED GEORGIA TECH TICKETS CALL AMY: 616-473-5825 WILL BUY 2 GA TX 4 GA TECH (312)744-8794  !!!!!!!1!!!!!1111!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1! Selling 2 GT tix. Leave best offer at (402)341-9406 or {402) 345-2177.  NO TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726  ATIENTION: GAY, LESBIAN, and BISEXUAL STUDENTS, FACULTY and STAFF: New Year, New Night, New  
FLY 4 FUN!  THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  !!!!!!!!!1!!1!1!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  FOR SALE  Leadership, New Attitude!!!!  
- If you enjoy working with people, love to travel, and enjoy earning top $$ call 243-4946  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO BOSTON COLLEGE (904 )398-6146 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  MARRIED STUD. BOOK/ STUD. TICKETS FOR SALE. LEAVE MESSAGE 271-1567  N.D. G.A.'S 271-9412.  The ORIGINAL campus group will hold it's first Info Meeting on Wed. Sept. 10th, 7PM  
SPORTS MINDED? Are you into the health & fitness fields? we're looking for team  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487.  Trade:2 Ga. Tech. GAs. Need BC  G-TECH 2GA's for sale!!! 1-7747  WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES  Our first Support Group Meeting: Wed. Sept 17th, 7PM  
players to help with our expanding company. 243-4947  ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  or USC.243-9028  GA and married student tickets for sale, call 273-4372.  271 1526  Call 236-9661 for details!  


Wednesday, September 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• NFL 

Jaguars struggle with injuries 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press Writer 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

Tom Coughlin believes he has a talented team, even if it means losing quarterbacks to show it. 
First it was Mark Brunell, who led the Jaguars to the AFC championship a year ago, then had them wondering if this sea­son would be a bust when he tore ligaments in his knee in the second game of the presea­son. 
Then it was Rob Johnson, who showed a fabulous presea­son was no fluke by going 20­of-24 for 294 yards in his first NFL start and rallying the Jaguars to a 28-27 victory over Baltimore despite playing the second half on a sprained left ankle. 
"That certainly says a lot about Rob Johnson," Coughlin said Monday. "It says a lot about his courage and his focus. But it says a lot about our football team. We have preached since day one to get the game in the fourth quarter and find a way to win. It wasn't pretty, but we found a way to 

Fall 

October 19-24, 1997 Experiential/Service Learning 
Ce11ter for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology Information meeting: Tuesday, September 9, 7:30-8:00 PM 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
Explore the cultural richness of Chicago 

Examine issues of diversity and related concerns 
One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs Information meeting: Tuesday, Sept. 9, 4:15-4:45PM 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Environmental Issues: Challenges and Responsible Solutions 

Direct contact with po-liticcll, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities 
One-credit Theology or Government Information meeting: Tuesday, September 9, 7:00-7:30 PM 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 

SOCIAL
Applications Due: Sept. 11, 1.997 
CONCERNS 
win." 
Indeed, after Johnson's sec­ond touchdown pass to Jimmy Smith gave the Jaguars a 28-27 lead, they came up with anoth­er interception of Vinny Testaverde, got a hand on a punt and kept the Ravens from getting a first down that would have put them in field goal range in the final seconds. 
''I'm in encouraged by that," Coughlin said. 
But reality must have sunk in Monday. Brunell, expected to be out until October, walked down one end of the hallway with a huge ice pack on his right knee. Johnson walked into the locker room with a heavy cast on his left ankle, his status for Sunday's home open­er against the New York Giants up in the air. 
Johnson has a high-ankle sprain. He had the same injury in college to the right ankle, and "they're not good," he said. He has no idea how soon it will heal. 
"We put Rob in a cast imme­diately after the game so he would remind himself that he does have an injury," Coughlin said. "It'll be a couple of days 



Break Seminars 
L 
~~;;:::::;;...~n 
'-..;~ 

in a cast, then we'll see what happens." 
The Jaguars, who started the season with only two healthy quarterbacks, added another one today by signing Jim Miller to a one-year deal said to be worth $200,000. 
Miller, waived by the Steelers during training camp, made his first NFL start last year in Jacksonville, going 9-of-17 for 83 yards before being replaced in a 24-9 loss. 
To make room for Miller, the Jaguars may put third-string running back Chris Parker on injured reserve. Parker had an MRI Monday on his left knee, which he injured against Baltimore. As he proved against the Ravens, Johnson doesn't have to be 100 percent to be effective. 
Johnson, who had attempted only seven passes in one regu­lar season game during his two years as a backup, looked like he was worthy of the $31.5 mil­lion contract the Jaguars gave Brunell. 
"I don't know how he does it," tight end Derek Brown said. "He just keeps his cool. Nothing gets to him." 
SENIORS 
FREE FOOD 




'NIGHT 
MO' BETTER RIBS DOORS OPEN @7PM NSCLUB 
MUST BE 21 
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED 
PICKUP YOUR 0/C DIRECTORY 
-
-
-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 3, 1997 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 



Griffey homers twice, gains ground on Maris' record 
By JIM COUR 
Asociared Press Writer 
SEATTLE 
By starting September with a bang -two big bangs -in his home ballpark, Ken Griffey Jr. is back chasing Roger Maris' home run record again. 
He's a longshot, to be sure. But with a major league­leading 46 homers with 24 games left, he is on a pace for 56 and that leaves with a chance, however slim, at Maris. 
In the Mariners' next-to-last interleague game of the season, Griffey homered in his first two at-bats against San Diego's Joey Hamilton in a 9-6 victory that helped the Mariners take a two-game lead over Anaheim. 

"He's battling Tino Martinez for the league's MVP, and if he does that for the rest of the season or some­thing close to that, I think he'll win it," said left-hander Jeff Fassero, who got his 14th win Monday night. 
"When Junior is swinging his bat the way he is right now, it makes everyone's job a lot eaer," All-Star shortstop Alex Rodriguez said. "It's a lot of fun for us to watch him, just like it is for you guys." 
Griffey has everyone on his side in his effort to sur­pass Maris' mark of 61 set in 1961 for the New York Yankees. 
The eight-time All-Star doesn't like to talk about himself, and he won't talk about Maris' record a·nd home runs. The fans love his magnetic smile and per­sonality. He's been the leading vote getter in the All­Star game three times. 
Griffey began this season on a home run tear, hitting 13 in April and 11 in May. Then he had five in June and five in July. He got his swing back in August with a dozen. And he doesn't hit home runs just in the cozy Kingdome. Twenty-two of his 46 homers have been on the road this season. ·In his last 27 games, he's hitting .385 (40-for-104) with 13 homers and 24 RBis. For the first time in three seasons, he's been healthy. 
in on•><>no~<> 
fee is $1 · ... · ... will be held on at 6:30 ·· 

p.m. in the Rockne Memorial. Women's SeJt.;.Defense-This course meetsfor.'10. sessb>ns on 'Mondays and Wednesdays EckTennis in the Rockne Memorial. Class · Charity run-The annual begins on Sept 8 and is open !.l\tND Hockey 2m. 5k, and 1Ok to students and staff•. Cla,ss siZe f{LPower. Play Run/Walk for the is limited and -th~re is a fe~ _9f fight against Cancer,will be $12. For more tnformatl.Qn, .. held on Sunday, Sept. 7. at calll-6100. 11:00 a.m. in front of Stepan Horseb · · Registration will be The Sports, the Life Style dining halls, and from athletic com­

CANDAX McNAIR PRoGRAM 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WITH PRoF. MARIO BoRELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4' 1997 6:3o P.M. 
CusHING AuDITORIUM 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION CoLLEGE STUDENTS oN FINANCIAL Am OR FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS (BLACK, HISPANIC, NATIVE AMERICAN) 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING 


Freshmen and Sophomores: 
Your Classmates Are Preparing For Success. • 
• 




ARE YOU? 
-

Information Meetings Wednesday, Sept. 3 or

-
Thursday, Sept 4 ·. 6:00PM 
107 Pasquerilla Center (Across from Hesburgh Library) Or Call Mike Chapple at 1-8418 


*No Obligation 
*Fulfills University Phys Ed, Social Science, and History Requirements 
*Leadership Opportunities 
*Family Spirit 


http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ,..,afrotc 
Wednesday, September 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• U.S. OPEN 

Chang survives marathon match with Pioline 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Michael Chang and Cedric Pioline shuffled as if they wore lead sneakers, the muscles in their legs pulsating with pain, their feet sore, shoulders slumped, mouths gulping for air. 
And they still had a set to go. 
Chang, that most indefatiga­ble of players, looked as if he had absolutely nothing left Tuesday, as if he most certainly would follow Pete Sampras and Monica Seles out of the U.S. Open on this hottest and muggi­est of days. 
There was no reasonable way Chang could come back, trail­ing 5-2 in the fourth set and down and two sets to one. Yet, somehow, he did. 
Chang dug into his incredible reservoir of desire, called upon those thick, sculpted legs to start moving, and won game after game -seven in a row and 11 of the last 12 -to pro­duce a masterful 6-3, 0-6, 5-7, 7-5, 6-1 victory in 3 hours, 41 minutes to move to the quarter­finals. 
A day after the top-seeded Sampras, the defending and four-time champion, suc­cumbed to his own exhaustion, and right after Seles, the 

Water Polo Team 
First Practice: Tonight, 8:30 pm @ Rolf's Aquatic·Center 
No Experience Necessary 
women's No. 2 seed, lost to Irina Spirlea, the second-seed­ed Chang barely escaped a sim­ilar early exit. 
Chang's survival and Seles' surrender surpassed in drama, though perhaps not in historical significance, the ascension of 17 -year-old Venus Williams to the semifinals of her first U.S. Open with a 7-5, 7-5 victory over Sandrine Testud. 
The 6-foot-1 Williams grabbed a railing and hoisted herself up to kiss her mother after the match. Williams next meets Spirlea, who has made no secret of her dislike for the attention teens like Williams are getting before they win even one tournament. 
No one, though, has paid his dues and gotten so much out of his body as Chang. 
In 11 years at the U.S. Open, Chang had never lost a set 6-0. Rarely had he ever been pushed around from the base­line as he was against Pioline. And almost never did Chang hit the kind of sloppy, loose shots he hit in the second set when he committed 17 unforced errors to the Frenchman's three. 
But Chang, as everyone in tennis knows, is most danger­ous when he is down. At that moment, when he summons his last stores of energy and attacks, he can break an oppo­nent's spirit. That's exactly what he did in this match against Pioline, a finalist at Wimbledon this year and at the 1993 U.S. Open. 
"When you are out there, you try not to think about being tired," Chang said. "You try not to think about anything that has to do with the physical aspect of the game. I felt like I had a little bit more today than Cedric. He was getting tired, and a few more errors were starting to creep into his game. He was starting to shorten up the points. I could see he was cramping up, shaking his leg." 
The unseeded Pioline served for the match at 5-3 in the fourth set, and Chang didn't give him a chance to put it away. At the end of a long rally on the first point, Chang tat­tooed the sideline with a win­ning forehand. 
Chang worked his way to two break points before Pioline struggled back to deuce. Then, with another break point against him, the fatigued Frenchman sent a forehand long. 
"I was too tired," Pioline said after his second consecutive five setter. "That's why he's No. 2 in the world, and I'm not No. 
2. I was cramping. and I think he saw I was tired and he tried to make me run." 
Sensing victory, Chang 
At Deloitte & Touche LLP, our investments in our people and the technology they use is what distinguishes us from our competition. The individuals in our Solutions Group are business advisors to rapidly growing middle-market and niche companies. 
We're looking for bright, eager individuals with a variety of skillsets across a broad range of disciplines-individuals who excel in college and life and are eager to contribute, grow, and face the challenges of our practice. We'll be on campus on September 4th and September 5th to present the Solutions Group to you. Solutions is a group of Consulting professionals dedicated to providing cost-effective solutions that result in measur­able value and lasting change. Our Group services three broad areas: Information Management, Financial Management, and Operations Management. Come join us for refreshments and hear more about the great opponunities Deloitte & Touche offers. You'll also have the opponunity 
to speak with hiring managers.  
Thursday, September 4  Friday, September 5  
Presentation to Undergraduates  Presentation to MBA Students  
The Center for Continuing Education, Room 100  MBA Lounge  
7pm  I 2:30pm  

Please join us September 4th or 5th. If you can't attend, but are interested in the opportunities we can offer and want more information, send your resume and a letter of interest to: Deloitte & Touche LLP, Dept. LHIND, Two Prudential Plaza, 180 N. Stetson, Chicago, IL 60601; FAX 312/946-2778. Please be sure to visit us .on the internet at: www.dttus.com 
Delaine & Touche is an equal opportunity employer. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, veteran's status or disabilities. We are pleased to have been recognized by Workforce magazine and Working Mother magazine as an organi­zation committed to creating innovative work/life balance programs, and by ComputerWorld and Information Week for use of technology in the workplace. 
~~~500 

pounced as only he can. Wobbling on heavy legs only minutes before, he suddenly bounced up and down and reduced Pioline to the stiff and sore victim. 
Pioline could hardly lift his feet, and he could do little more than aim for the corners and hope for winners. It was not a strategy that would succeed against Chang, who chased down virtually everything and played, once again, like a human backboard. 
Though Sampras, who beat Chang in the final last year, is gone, Chang doesn't buy the idea that he seems destined to win his first U.S. Open. 
"People talk about favorites," Chang said. "Every match is tough. You can't come out here 
' and expect a cakewalk in any match. If you don't come out here and play your best tennis, you're going to fall short." Chang will play in the quar­ters against No. 10 Marcelo Rios, who beat No. 7 Sergi Bruguera 7-5, 6-2, 6-4. Unseeded Magnus Larsson also reached the quarters, beating Wayne Ferreira 6-3, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3, and will next meet the win­ner of the Andre Agassi-Patrick Rafter match. Spirlea, who boldly said last week she wanted to "shut up the mouths of everybody" talk­ing about the teens on the tour, reached the semifinals by knocking off Seles, the two-time champion, 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (10-8), 6-3. Only a few crucial points in each set separated Seles and the 11th-seeded Spirlea in their dramatic match, which fea­tured tennis at its highest level and had fans gasping and roar­ing after seemingly impossible shots. Seles, the U.S. Open champi­on in 1991 and 1992 and a finalist the past two years after a two-year absence following her stabbing, showed the resolve for which she is famous in the first set tiebreaker when she scrambled out of a 3-5 jam. She cracked groundstrokes from side to side, oblivious to pressure, and won four straight points -the last on a hopping second serve that Spirlea slugged long. Though known to only the most avid aficionados, the Romanian won the crowd's respect and cheers in the sec­ond set with the way she hung in grittily against Seles in long rallies, chased down balls that seemed out of reach, and attacked whenever she had the chance. "I can get used to it," Spirlea said of the crowd's applause for 

-
her in a rare stadium appear­ance. ''1-like it." 
For much of the match, Spirlea reminded Seles of an old foe. 
"Steffi is her idol, so I think she modeled (her style) after Steffi's game," said Seles, who lost to Graf in last year's final. 
Spirlea offered Seles a variety of backhand slices and topspin forehands, much like Graf, and never relented. 
"She doesn't like to play against my slice," Spirlea said. "She has a little bit the same game with Steffi. When you 

"'­
play slice, you don't give her so much rhythm that she can come and hit every ball." 
"I started having a stomach ache at the beginning of the second set," Seles said. "It was bothering me. But she just played better, kept the ball going in long points. and I was struggling with that by the end of the second set." 


.. 
--------------------~-----~------------------~--------------------------~-----------­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 3, 1997 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Gonzalez honored as Big East Rookie 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman Monica Gonzalez has been named Big East Rookie of the Week after the first college games of her career. 
The forward from Richardson, Texas, sparked the second-ranked Irish by coming off the bench in the first game of the season on Aug. 29 against St. John's. 
With Notre Dame holding a 1-0 lead late in the first half. Gonzalez, who led her club team, the Dallas Sting, to two national championships, scored an insurance goal and then assisted on another goal to put Notre Dame up 3-0 at halftime. She would then add another assist later in the sec­ond half of the 7-0 win. 

With the 7-0 win over St. John's and 6-0 win over Michigan State on Sunday, the 2-0-0 Irish return to action when they travel to Washington on Friday, before heading to third-ranked Portland on Sept. 7. 

• OLYMPIC GAMES 





Cities bid for 2004 Games 
By STEPHEN WILSON Associated Press W rirer 

lAUSANNE, Switzerland 
Intrigue, speculation and tension escalated Tuesday as the five cities bidding for the 2004 Olympics began frantic last-minute lobbying of IOC members. 
The International Olympic Committee opened its 106th session Tuesday night, but the real activity was in the lobbies, bars and corridors where bid officials buttonholed members in the final chase for votes Friday. 
"We are in an intense final phase of working and lobbying," Stockholm bid chief Olof Stenhammar said. "It is an unusually tight situa­tion. I don't think there has been such a close race in a long, long time. The last days are very important for us." 
Stockholm is one of three European candidates for the games, along with Home and Athens. The other bid cities are Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Cape Town, South Africa. 
IOC members say the vote shapes up as the most unpredictable in years. Rome still appears to be the city to beat, although Italian officials are cautious about being seen as the front-run­ner. 
"We have a saying in Italy: He who goes into the conclave as pope leaves as a cardinal," Rome bid chief Raffaele Ranucci said. 
With 107 IOC members eligible to vote in the secret ballot, it will probably take four rounds before one city emerges with a winning majority. The city with the fewest votes is eliminated after each round. Trying to guess how many votes a city has lined up can be dangerous. 
"If you believe the calculations of all the bid­ding cities, there would be 550 IOC members," Hanucci said. 
The Italians were the first to hold a news con­ference in the Beaulieu Palace. There were no bombshell announcements or provocative state­ments, just a technical briefing with charts explaining how Home will be able to handle the requirements of moving 350,000 people a day during the games. 
Absent from the news conference was Primo Nebiolo, the bid's most visible exponent and the powerful president of the International Amateur Athletic Federation. 
Nebiolo has been seen as a possible detriment to the Home bid after his scathing criticism of Greece's Olympic aspirations during the world championships in Athens last month. 
Asked what Nebiolo would be doing over the next few days, his aide, Robert Fasulo, said, "Keep as low a profile as possible." 
Athens, long considered Home's main rival, has also been laying low so far. Gianna Angelopoulos-Daskalaki, the Athens bid chief who has been dubbed the "Iron Lady" in some European press reports, has kept out of the spot­light. 
Stockholm has been the most visible of the can­didates, lobbying aggressively and pushing its case with the media. Stockholm is desperate to overcome the bad publicity caused by a recent series of arson fires, bomb attacks and threats linked to the bid. 
The violence, including a small firebomb attack outside the Greek Olympic Committee offices in Athens on Sunday, has prompted extraordinary security measures in Lausanne. For the first time in memory, metal detectors were installed in the entrance hall of the IOC hotel. 
Davie 

continued from page 16 
firm that the Irish will put the ball in the air more but will not forget about the offense's main strength-the running game. 
"I do think we'll throw the football more, but I don't want to mislead anyone," Davie said. "We're not going to drop back and throw 50 or 60 times in this game. I do think you'll see us throw it more on running downs." 
As far as quarterback Ron Powlus's attitude, Davie said that he met with Powlus, offen­sive coordinator Jim Colletto, and quarterback coach Mike Sanford last week, and Powlus seemed to be confident and comfortable. 
The only remaining concern for the Irish is the kicking game. 
Davie said that none of the three kickers -Scott Cengia, Kevin Kopka, and Jim Sanson­has yet to emerge but insisted that if he puts one into the game, he has full confidence his kicker will make the field goal or extra point. 
"I would love to have a kicker because I'm very organized. and I do like to have a plan for ovcrything," Davie said. "But it's not going to work out that way. So rather than look at the negatives, I look at the posi­tives, and all three of those young guys do have talent, and they have been successful throughout the course of the off-season." 
In the absence of key attacking players, other forwards such as Ben Bocklage were forced to carry the load for the Irish. 
Korol blasted an incredible shot to the upper right corner

Hoosiers 

of the net. continued from page 16 Dennis Fadeski scored the final goal for the Hoosiers with the defense undermanned. just over six minutes to play in 
Indiana's counter-attack took the game. advantage of this with 15 min­"This game should give us utes left in the game. Following confidence going into the Big an Irish turnover, Alavanja, East season." Berticelli said. who was left unmarked in the "As a team. we played very midfield, beat Velho on a beau­well. We were overmatched tiful shot from 20 yards out. and undermanned, but we 
Less than five minutes later, came out and played hard another Indiana counter-attack against one of the top teams in Jed to the third goal. Aleksey the country." 
@] ­


Come to the Huddle at 8pm on Thursday to sign yourself up. 


4COUIIIC C4Fia 
S t a r t ing T h u r s d a yo Nigh t fro m 9pm-12am in the Huddle 

Questions??? Call #1-7757 

@]  
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ RETREAT ~ DATES: ~ FORMS~ AVAILABLE: ~ SIGN UP DEADLINE:~ ~ CONTACT:~ ~ COST:~  otre ame ncounter A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF An oppor1untty, In dialogue with others, to deepen your underst•ndlng of your..tt, your v•lues, your rellltlonship with Christ, your experience of Christian community 1nd service. OCTOBER 3 -5, 1997 September 1 -5, 1997 Before 4:00 g.m. -SEPT. 5 Campus Ministry Office 1 03 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 -$30.00 ~~  li! ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  


-
.~ 
Wednesday, September 3, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Toj)AY'S -STRIP I~ BRovi:-HT rtJ lt>V 
8Y Tilt LAl>IF5 liT Nl> VI/JEO. W/lt;N EVE'R z;., IN T#E ."!OOP, I ALW~VS C,O TO Nl> VI{)Eo, IN TH£ 13A5Ujf'lf 
OF LA fORTUNo ANI> /lAVE TilE 
C,!RLS PiCK O<JT A VII>EO Sf<.C<Tft> FRoftl T/IEIR HoTTE'S( 8tocJ18VSTE/!S. 
~/.' ~~ 
) -: 
ZVC.O, Lo,i€ SAID W£ lkEREN'T' 9¢1'14 TO f>el-1. OV T T#C. SIR IP FOR ;lfoNETARV COMPE'NSilTtON ANY ,MoRE'! 
I 1(}101./. I',N\ !loT 4ETTIN'i ANY l'10it1E111RY Co"1PEt<SATION 
fOR THIS. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
HOW WAS t,loORSLINI) t>ATi 
t,AST W66K '?,, 

DILBERT 
WALL'I'1 TWO THINGS ... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Dallas player, for short 
1 N.B.A.'s O'Neal, 
31 Small island 

familiarly 
32 "Oh, --kind

5 Nicklaus's org. 
of guy ..." 

a Orbital point 13 Cape Canaveral 
34Score in horseshoesgrp. 

14 E.T. vehicles 37 New Orleans 
15 The Beatles' hot spot "You Won't 41 Edits 42 Overindulgent 16 Santa checks it parent, e.g. twice 44 "Meet the 17 Popular Press" network adhesive 
47 Actress Sue 

19 Facility 
--Langdon

21 Egg-yung 
48 Feather source 

22 And others: 
50 ---Magnon

Abbr. 
51 Conditioning,

23 Canasta relative 
as leather

26 Cash register 
53 Ham holder 

key 28 --trick (three 55 Golfer's goals) pocketful 29lt kept a 56 Cool-­princess up cucumber 
::r: LoVE HALL...  rHE MJR.Tf/ i>IN/!VE, J'>(jiVE IT Li MA'/.VJEL.  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Anna Maria Albcrghetti, Trini Lopez, James Mason, Joseph Cotton  
DEAR EUGENIA: My husband,  
born Dec. 2, 1%3, and our daughter,  
born May 28, 1995, and I recently  
moved to a new city and country be­ 
cause of my job. Since we moved, and  
even before that, we seem to be argu­ 
ing more and I have lost interest in  
being physical with him. Is this just a  
bad phase for both of us, or are we  
doomed to this for the rest of our rela­ 
tionship?  
Concerned  
DEAR CONCERNED: You have  
an amazing comparison with your  
husband. Quite often, when children  
MIKE PETERS  enter into the picture, it sets off sever·  
al years where good relationships  
start  to  fail.  You  have all been  

through a stressful period. First, ad­
NO ... I
HAt;> i"O 

justing to laking on the responsibili­
'CAUS~ H6GOT 
ty of a child; second, moving to a new
P HIM 

TI-IOLJC,Hr 116 
city and country; and third, working
FRESHr 
in a new atmosphere. Your husband
THRi& TIMES, 

111\Q PIE£>. 
NUMBER ONE, I WP...~T 'I'OU TO CHAIR THE "FUN COMMITIEE" TO If"\PROVE EMPLO'I'EE. MOP-.ALE.. 
58 Future atty.'s exam 59 1777 battle site 62 Worst possible score 65 Role player 
66 Athlete with a statue in Richmond, Va. 
67 Hydrox rival 68Villa-­
(ltalian site) 69 Hair goo 70Highway 
entrance 
DOWN 
1 Variety show since 1975, briefly 
2"Bali--" 30.K. 4 Persian Gulf 
nation 

is probably feeling somewhat alien­ated. Don't be too hard on one an­other this year, as you are both expe­riencing confusion. Try to cope; work hard at raising your daughter and above all else, try to plan a trip for just the two of you. You need to re­kindle what you once had. If you can't make this union work, it will be a real loss for both of you. Get pro­fessional help if you feel that you are losing ground. It isn't easy for a Sa­gittarian male to deal with these issues. You'll have to coax him a liHle if you want this relationship to last. By the way, pregnancy or giving birth 
is apparent at the end of this year and beginning of next. You may not feel like making love, but if you do, you're likely to enlarge your family. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
TWO 1 ACCOROING TO 
11415 REPORT, 't'OU1VE 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may be fooling yourself about your abilities. Don't mah· promises that are unreasonable. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do not get romanticaiiy involved with collea~;ues. Redecorating will cost far more than anticipated. 
GEMINI (May 21-june 20): Tra\'el for pleasure will promote new love interests. Get involved in groups of interest. 
CANCER (June 21-july 22): Don't get involved in joint financial ven­tures. You must avoid extravagance when it comes to entertainment. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Arguments with partners are imminent if you don't control the situation. Refrain from making hasty decisions. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take care of secret matters. Avoid confron­tations with employers or relatives. Be cautious while traveling. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let your lover cost you too much today. Lending or borrowing will get you into trouble. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your talents will shine at work. Don't let your personal dilemmas interfere with your goals. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pleasure trips will be fun but they will cost you more than you bargained. Your need for lavish entertainment will be your downfall. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Difficulties with your lover will sur­face. Do not let your mate spend your hard-.,amed cash. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Lovers' quarrels will develop if you don't channel your energy into physi­cal outlets. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Poor health will prevail if you allow your­self to get run-down. Be cautious while operating equipment. 

Born Today: You've got the ideas and the support to make your dreams
BEEN USING THE_ 

come true this year. Don't let someone who has been toying with your heart 
stand m the way of your accompliShments. You must forge ahead, regardless of 
the obstacles you face. 

INTERNET FOR PER.SONto.L 
REA.50N5. 
I 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
44 So-so 54 Shadow eliminator?
45 Writer Ambrose 
editors.
57 Booty

46 Footballer's footwear 60 Rap's Dr. -­49 Free-for-all 61 Devils' org. 52"0nce-­63 Dream period, 
Join The Observer 
Enough" for short 53 Pay boost 64AIIey­
staff. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 





Welcome Daek!! We Dope You Dad A Safe And Prod.uetive Summer. 
Tlu~ Next Fen~ J1leeks JJ111 lie Filled 11'itl• .1lleeting· .LVen"' Friends And Heeonneeting· 11'itl• Oltl Friends. As lr011 Soeialize~ Helllelllher To .J.llnke Responsible Deeisions Belore 
l""011 Drink J1lifllallt Feeling Press11re Fro111 Otl1ers. 
S1tousored by die Offiee of ,\)cobol ami Drug Edueation 
-
-· 
I --SPORTS
1
I ~p~ag~e_I_6_________________________________________________________________________________________~~e~d~ne~s~d~ay~·~Se~p~t~em~b~er~3~,~1~9~97 
• MEN's SOCCER 

Hoosiers dominate early season showdown, 4-0 
Top-seeded IU spoils ND home debut 
By TOM STUDEBAKER Sports Writer 
In a game that was closer than the score might indicate, the Notre Dame men's soccer team lost to the Indiana
.tr 
Hoosiers 4-0. 

Indiana brought a number one ranking in the Soccer America poll, and a number three ranking in the NSCAA/Umbro poll to face 
The Observer/Brandon Candura
Notre Dame, ranked eigh­
Forward Ben Bocklage (right) aggressively pursues the ball in
teenth. Indiana showcases sev­
Tuesday evening's 4-0 defeat at the hands of the Hoosiers. 
eral talented midfielders and forwards who are very skilled the field that beat Irish goalie two players led a very fast at controlling the ball, as well Greg Velho. counter-attack up the middle. as the tempo of the game. "Of course, a goal that early The Irish started the second 
-
In order to win, Notre Dame in the game is going to take half very fast and controlled would have had to play a great some wind out of your sails. I play for the first ten minutes. game defensively. And as if thought we beared right down During this period, the Irish playing the number one team and got back into the game," attack crnated several good were not enough, Notre Dame head coach Mike Bertieelli said. scoring opportunities. After this had to do it without seniors Much of the first half was initial Irish flurry though, the Ryan Turner and Bill Savarino controlled by the Indiana mid­tempo settled down for much of and sophomore Ryan Cox, three fielders. After the first goal, th~:; second half. Thn Notre Dame of their top scorers. Irish settled down and played offense continued to work hard The game got off to a shaky very solid and aggressive for scoring chances. As the start for Notre Dame. Less than defense. Indiana kept the pres­game wore on, Notre Dame was two minutes into the game, sure on but failed to ereate any forced to send more and more Caleb Porter put Indiana up 1-serious scoring opportunities. players up field. Although this 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 0. Porter redirected a beautiful­Junior Lazo Alavanja and produced some offense, it left Sophomore defender Alan Woods goes airborne for a loose ball during ly played free kick from Yuri senior Chris Klien led the the first half of Notre Dame's home opener. Lavrinenko on the left side of Hoosiers in the midfield. These 
see HOOSIERS I page 14 
• FOOTBALL 

Davie turns focus to game day 
more quarterback Joe Hamilton, who Davie
Irish take final aim 

described as a "very accurate passer" and cited him as a threat out of the pocket. The one major area of concern for Davie, in
at Yellow Jackets 

comparison to' the Irish, is the experience of the Yellow Jacket defense. While the defense
By BETSY BAKER 

remains an area of uncertainty for the Irish, the
Associate Spons Editor Yellow Jackets return seven starters, including 
five from the line. 
Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie's philoso­

"When you look at their defense, probably just
phy centers around the task at hand. For the first time yesterday, the task at hand shifted the opposite of us on defense," Davie said. 
"They're led by three down linemen that we
from the overall development of the team to this 

think are very athletic. They appear to me to be
Saturday's home opener against Georgia Tech. 

Corey Bennett-type players." 
Of course, progress of the team is the focal 

Davie compared the likes of the Georgia Tech
point of Davie's strategy going into Saturday's 

defensive line to the 6-foot-2, 253-pound
contest, but at yesterday's press conference, the 

Bennett, who has emerged as the defensive
first order of business was the threat of the 

workhorse for Notre Dame. 
swarming Yellow Jackets. 

For the Irish, Davie focused on the concern of
"When you look at Georgia Tech coming in, I think Georgia Tech has some advantages," Davie 

defense but assured the fans that the team has six or seven capable players to rotate in and out
said. "No. 1, they're a football team -their coaching staff has been together a long time. 

of the lineup. One of the players slated to rotate is defensive end Melvin Dansby. The fifth-year
Second, they've gotten off to fast starts." 

senior and co-eaptain of the Irish team has suf­
Davie was referring to the last two years in 

fered from chronic swelling in th(! knees and is
which the Yellow Jackets compiled a 5-2 and 4-2 

not expeeted to play more than six plays in a
record respectively out of the starting blocks. 

row. Dansby will rotate with Brad Williams,
The third threat Davie cited was the experi­

while Jason Ching and Kurt Belisle will take
ence of the Yellow Jackets, especially in the skill turns on the other end.

positions. "When you look at their offense, certainly their 

One of the high points of the Irish defense is skill positions are the strength of their football 
the depth of the secondary. The secondary has team," Davie said. 
been an area of eoncern in past years for the The Yellow Jackets highlight such players as 
Irish, but with the maturity of seniors Allen senior split end Harvey Middleton. The six-foot, 
Rossum and Ivory Covington, and the emergence 187-pound receiver led the Atlantic Coast of sophomore Deveron Harper, the secondary Conference last year in receptions and is consid­has solidified itself. The Observer/Rob Finch 
On the offensive side of the ball, Davie did con-Head coach Bob Davie hopes that senior co-captain Allen Rossum
ered by many to be an All-American candidate. 




Middleton will follow the throwing arm of sopho­vs. Georgia Tech, 

tfl 

Saturday, September 6 
, ... 

at Washington, 
&_. 
\~ 

Friday, September 5 
at Gonzaga, @ Friday, August 5 
can make an impact on both sides of the ball this Saturday. 
see DAVIE I page 14 
,fr . 
• Gonzalez receives honor 
vs. Providence,
tin 

September 7, I p.m. 
see page 14 
Volleyball at Hanover 
• Chang avoids near upset
College, Sept. 5 
see page 13 





