
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 77 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• NEWS ANJU.YS!S 
ND prof supports Ball Plan 
Three Social Security plans involve market investment ofsurplus funds 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Assistant News Editor 
The Presidential Advisory Committee on Social Security, in its report released this month, con­firmed what people familiar with the debate over the program's overhaul have known for years ­there is no widely accepted answer. The 13 mem­ber committee split its votes, with the majority of the votes divided among the two most extreme pro­posals. 
The reasons for the debate are the few things about which the theorists seem to agree. The caus­es behind the debate are: the prediction that in 2013, Social Security will spend more than it takes in, the decreasing ratio of contributors (or work­ers) to beneficiaries, and the fact that the age of eligibility for retirement benefits has not changed, despite a consistent increase in the life expectancy figure. There is also some debate over the method used to calculate cost of living allowances (COLAs). 
In 1945, there were approximately 45 workers for each beneficiary. That ratio has fallen to three to one currently, and is expected to fall even fur­ther by 2010 to 2.6 to one. 
One suggestion to alleviate the impending prob­lems is to invest Social Security funds in the stock market in order to bring in a higher rate of return on the surplus funds. Historically, the stock market boasts a 10 percent average rate of return. This is almost five times the 2.2 percent rate of return on Social S.ecurity funds. 
Although the idea has been received with varying levels of acceptance, it was a major player in the recent advisory committee report. The investment in the stock market proposal constituted at least 40 percent of all three plans submitted by the commit­tee. 
THE PLANS 

The first plan, which received six of the 13 votes, is known as the "Ball Plan." Sponsored by Robert Ball, the former commissioner of Social Security for Presidents Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon, this plan has also been termed the "Status Quo" plan or 

Leaders of the Pack 
Saint Mary's student leaders offer advice 
The Observer/Rachael Sederberg 

By ANN KEARNS 
Saint Mary's Student Body Vice President Beth Ann Miller and Assistant Saint Mary's Editor President Jen Turbiak are nearing the end of their term, which was marked by improved communication on campus. 

The students at Saint Mary's their freshman year. Turbiak, College are witnessing the end­
a recipient of the Outstandinging of one era and are await­
Leadership Award, has served ing the start of a new one. 
as a member of the Residence Next week is the beginning 
Hall Association (RHA) and of campaigning for Saint LeMans Hall Council. Mary's student body officer 
Miller has held the elected candidates. In this upcoming 
positions of secretary and vice time of transition, Jen Turbiak, 
president of the LeMans Hall student body president, and 
Council, served as a member Beth Ann Miller, student body 
of the RHA, and also served as vice president, reflected on the executive secretary cJf the their time spent serving the 
Board of Governance (BOG).Saint Mary's community. 
Turbiak and Miller's plat-Both Turbiak and Miller form focused on improvinghave been active in leadership 
seven specific aspects of life at positions on campus since 
Saint Mary's: campus commu-
SOCIAL SECURITY PROPOSALS  
BALL PLAN • Diversify social security trust fund by investing up to 40% of social security revenue in the stock market. • Sponsored by Robert Ball, former commissioner of Social security for Nixon, Johnson, and Kennedy.  
GRAMLICH PLAN • lmplementationof individual accounts with a portion of the social security revenue going into government-supervised 401 (K) type accounts. • Sponsored by Edward Gramlich, economist at the University of Michigan.  
SCHEIBER PLAN • Suggests 5% of current payroll taxes go into Personal Savings Accounts where they would be managed by private firms. • Named after Anne Scheiber, who, by age 101, had amassed over $20 million in stocks based on an intial $5000 investment in 1944.  

The Obsfrver/Melissa Weber 
the "Maintenance of Benefits" plan. Leaving the current benefit structure fundamentally untouched, the Ball Plan would diversify the trust fund by investing up to 40 percent of Social Security rev­enue in the stock market. 
According to Teresa Ghilarducci, professor of economics and presidential appointee in the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation, the Ball Plan would "make a good system work better." 
"The system is not broken. The system is one of the most successful economic programs in the country," Ghilarducci stated. 
Supporters of the plan, like Ghilarducci, point out that single earner couples of all income levels and low and average income "baby boomers" would benefit from the plan. Critics cite negative effects on dual income couples and higher income singles, as weaknesses of the plan seek a more individualis­tic than collective savings plan. 
The Gramlich Plan, or the "middle-of-the-road" plan, supports the implementation of individual 
see SECURITY I page 4 
nications, the Student Government Association (SGA), athletics, multicultural aware­ness, off-campus communica­tions, spirituality, and acade­mics. 
Turbiak is proud of the fact that most of their goals have been accomplished, including increased communication on campus and the establishment of the Spotlight Newsletter. Additionally, Turbiak and Miller designed a monthly cal­endar for each student outlin­ing the major events for the 
see LEADERS I page 6 


Campus mourns death of Houck 
By MICHAEL LEWIS News Writer 

Colleagues remembered Professor John Houck, founder of the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business in 1976, who died of a heart attack on Dec. 11. 
Houck graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1953, and joined the faculty of the College of Business Administration in 1957. Faculty"members in the department hope to name the center after him. 
Father Oliver Williams, the co­director of the center and close asso­ciate of Houck, said of the center, "It 
Houck

was John's idea, and he was the inspiration for it. 
"The two of us together ran a conference every other year on some aspect of business ethics," Williams said. "(Houck) taught some of my classmates at Notre Dame." 
"l-Ie was a wonderful person to work with, and we miss him terribly," said Houck and Williams' secre­tary, Madeline Day. 
One of Houck's stu­-------------------------dents, Joseph 


'John had an enor­
mous impact on me. I am grateful to have been his friend and col­league. I will miss _him deeply and remember him in my prayers.' 
Joseph Pichler CEO, Kroger Co. 
Pichler, is now the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Kroger Co. He wrote letters of sym­pathy to both Houck's wife and Williams. 
"John was a rare teacher who com­bined professional expertise with humanistic values and a deep personal concern for his stu­

dents," Pichler said. "He had that knack for going to the heart of the low and related court cases. 
"He helped us to understand the logic of the legal framework and its foundation in human attempts to achieve justice on this earth. 
see HOUCK I page 6 


Prendergast named new editor-in-chief 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Associate News Editor 
With nearly three years of service to The Observer, Brad Prendergast was elected editor­in-chief for the 1997-1998 year by a vote of the newspaper's General Board last night. 
Prendergast, a junior from 
Fort Wayne, Ind., lives in Stanford Hall. He is an eco­nomics and history major in the College of Arts and 


Letters and Prendergast plans to pur­sue a career either in the field ofjournalism or law. 
"The Observer has been a big part of my life for the past three years, and I'm honored to have the opportunity to complete my last year as editor-In-chief," Prendergast said. "It will be a challenge, but I think it will pay off in the end." 
Prendergast has been a mem­ber of The Observer staff since September of his freshman year when he served as a news writer, copy editor, and assis­tant news editor. 
As a sophomore, he worked as associate news editor and subsequently as news editor, the position he currently holds. 
In addition to his campus experience in journalism, Prendergast worked as an intern for the Michigan City News-Dispatch last summer. He believes the experience he gained from the job expanded his vision for the future of The Observer. 
"Working full-time for a regional paper gave me new ideas for fine-tuning the opera­tions of our paper," Prendergast said. "I have sev­eral plans for making the work­ings of the paper more effi­cient." 
One of Prendergast's main goals for the year is increased coverage of events on the Saint Mary's campus. 
"My mom went to Saint Mary's and so does my girl­friend. These facts have made me more sensitive to the inter­ests of the campus and the news that happens there," he said. 
Prendergast will take over the position after spring break. 
----------~~----~--------­
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, January 29, 1997 
• WORLD AT A GlANCE
INSIDE COLUMN 

East and West coasts experience record rain and snowfall 

WASHINGTON Storms slamming into the West Coast 

A very wetyear----~--­
and moisture marching north in the 

1996 was the wettest year on record in five states and nearly so in several
Atlantic made last year the wettest on 

others. Precipitation averaged 32.32 inches across the country.
record on opposite sides of the country. 
For Oregon and Idaho in the West and Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and West Virginia in the East, 1996 recorded the most rain and snow ever. For New York, it was the second wettest, according to new figures from the National Climatic Data Center. 
"It's pretty obvious what caused the West to be so wet; it was the prevalent storm track hitting the West Coast, as it's doing right now," William 0. Brown of the Asheville, N.C., climate center, a part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said Tuesday. 
"For the Northeast, he said, the No. 1 

(The annual summary does not 
Include figures for Alaska and Hawaii,
cause was the pretty active westerly 

where weather varies considerably from
(wind) flow. It caused storm development 

the 48 contiguous states.) 
in the Gulf of Mexico, which caused the 

Source: National Climatic Data Center AP
wetness. 
Take ebonies 


seriously 
In December of---------­last year, the Eduardo Llull Oakland Unified Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
School District pub­lished some very disturbing statistics concern­ing the performance of their black students. Black students make up 53% of the district student body, but they only averaged a 1.8 GPA. Black students also comprise three­fourths of the students enrolled in special edu­cation classes in the district. There is obvious­ly a problem. 
Many administrators and teachers in the district cited the language barrier that many black students face as the problem. The rem­edy they saw was in teaching their students proper Standard American English, but they would need assistance from the government to do so. Seeing the progress bilingual classes made with Hispanic and Asian students in the district, the OUSD decided to petition for money for a bilingual program for students who speak ebonies. 
The term "ebonies" is the recent name given to the distinct dialect of Black America. A combination of "ebony" and "phonics," this dialect existed since the beginning of the Black experience in America. Researchers think they have traced its roots to Western Africa. 
However strong the tradition of ebonies is in America, the. OUSD was hard-pressed in con­vincing people that it is a separate, foreign language. After the OUSD realized this, they renewed their position and started pushing ebonies as a distinct dialect of American English that inhibits the success of those that speak it. In order to prepare these students for a brighter future, they have pushed for money to fund a special program of instruction in Standard American English. 
However, most of America remains cynical about the subject. There are two common myths that have developed: 
1. 
It is a movement to teach ebonies to chil­dren in schools. 

2. 
It is a movement to have ebonies recog­nized as a separate language. 


The truth is that these students need special instruction in Standard American English to succeed in society, and they need this instruc­tion from teachers who can recognize the deviations from Standard American English that are common in ebonies. 
Would this program even work? In the Delkab County School District, just outside of Atlanta, there exists a similar program to that which the OUSD would like to implement. This program has been federally funded for over a decade. The program gives teachers instruction on the common deviations from Standard American English to look for in stu­dents' speech. The students are not allowed to speak ebonies in the classroom. Everyday, extra time is devoted to perfecting the chil­dren's speech. The result has been very posi­tive. They have experienced heightened test scores and have developed a stronger sense of self-confidence. 
We see it can work, but where can the OUSD find money to fund their program? We can, as a nation, make the funds available. The ques­tion remains: do we want to? The urban poor experiences severe inequality. The majority of that urban poor is black. The problem of help­ing these Americans overcome the inequality they face is a more complex problem than most of us realize. Helping these students speak more "properly" will not solve every­thing. However, these students will be given a better chance of success and equality by mas­tering Standard American English. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production Russ Williams Nate Willis Allison Koenig Chris Hahn 
Sports Accent Kathleen Lopez Andrea Jordan Joe Wieler Viewpoint Jenny Metzger Graphics Lab Tech Melissa Weber Kevin Dalum 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Carter returns to White House 
WASHINGTON 
Former President Jimmy Carter 
,---._,.....,-,...-----, returned to the White House on Tuesday, telling President Clinton about his recent trip to South America and the Caribbean The two presidents, both Democrats, huddled in the Oval Office following Clinton's first news conference of his second term, said White House spokeswoman Mary Ellen Glynn. They talked about Carter's Hl-day visit to the region, Glynn said. Clinton plans to usn the information in preparing for his meeting next month with president of Chile and for his own trip to South America later this year. They also discussed the 21st Century Agenda for the Americas, a program that the Atlanta-based Carter Center will sponsor this spring. Carter, 72, went to South America to consult with leaders there for the upcoming program. He made stops in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Jamaica. While in Jamaica, Carter criticized an econom­ic embargo on Cuba that Clinton pushed last year as "one of the worst mistakes my country has over maqe" because it allows Cuban leader Fidel Castro to portray himself as a martyr while doing little to advance democ­racy in Cuba. 
GM employees head back to work 
MORAINE, Ohio 
Negotiators reached a tentative agreement Tuesday to end a strike at a General Motors Corp. truck assembly plant that makes the Oldsmobile Bravada, Chevrolet Blazer and GMC Jimmy, a GM spokesman said. The 4,300 workers will return to their jobs Wednesday, said Gerry Holmes, a spokesman at GM's North American headquarters in Warren, Mich. Holmes declined to pro­vide details of the agreement pending ratification by the International Union of Electronic workers. Jim Marlow, shop chairman for the union's local, predicted the work­ers would approve the contract by an 85 percent vote on Thursday and Friday. The workers went on strike at the suburban Dayton plant on Sunday, after rejecting a three-year contract proposal. Union officials said GM had failed to settle hundreds of grievances, including disputes over overtime and discharged workers. GM said the grievance issue had been resolved. Also, GM said it posted a 58 percent drop in fourth-quarter profits. 
Fifth instructor charged in scandal 
BALTIMORE 
A fifth Army instructor has been charged in a sex 
scandal at Aberdeen Proving Ground, and another sol­
dier who was already charged was dismissed Tuesday. 
Sgt. 1st Class William Jones, the latest soldier to be 
charged, is accused of indecent assault, being drunk 
while on duty and failing to obey orders governing the 
interaction between instructors and students, the Army 
said. If he is found guilty, he faces up to six months in 
military prison. Jones is the fifth soldier to be implicated 
as a result of an investigation the Army launched after 
two drill sergeants and a captain at the Ordnance School 
were charged in November with rape and other crimes. 
Since then, instructors· at the post north of Baltimore 
have been charged with sexual erimes ranging from 
rape to sexual harassment and adultery involving more 
than a dozen female recruits. The scandal prompted the 
Army to set up a special hotline for sexual harassment 
complaints, and as many as 20 more soldiers eould face 
charges as a result of the investigation, said base 
spokesman George Mercer. The charges filed Friday 
against Jones, 34, involve six female trainees and one 
civilian employee. The indecent assault charge involves a 
former female trainee who was a civilian at the time, the 
Army said Tuesday. 
Jury clears 'vampire' teen of murders 
TAVARES, Fla. 
Heather Wendorf, one of five teens in a so-called vam­
pire cult accused in the slaying of her parents, was 
cleared Tuesday of murder charges in their bludgeoning 
deaths. After the 15-year-old testified voluntarily for two 
hours, a grand jury found no probable cause she partic­
ipated in the Nov. 25 murders of Richard and Naoma 
Ruth Wendorf. Heather, who had been held in a juvenile 
detention center on two counts of second-degree murder 
and one count of robbery, was released shortly after the 
decision. "I knew we had to take her testimony to the 
people who could make a difference," her attorney 
James Hope said. "For two months the whole world 
thought she was a murderer." It was an unusual and 
risky choice for Heather. In addressing the grand jury 
voluntarily, she waived any Fifth Amendment protection 
against self-incrimination. Whatever she said could have 
been used against her at trial. State Attorney Brad King 
agreed with the grand jury's decision. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 29. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
h ...#  ......~,...........~--·· ··'  H  
i Wednesday~  25  
Thursday  ~  20  
Friday  ~  29  
Saturday  ~  35  
Sunday  ~  33  

~.)'-~\.\'"''''-.....!' -· \,,:.~ 

4,~,Q88Q ~ 
Showers T-storms Ra;n Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Vta Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
L 
10 8 20 28 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

Cl 1997 AccuWealher, Inc. 

26 
Pressure 
,H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vis Auocla/od Press  
Anehoragc  32  30  Denver'  53  18  Newark  30  21  
Atlanta  46  35  Flagstaff  44  21  New Orleans 76  59  
~ u Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Boston 52 Chattanooga 40 Chicago 20  38 30 10  Indianapolis 26 Las Vegas 65 Los Angnles 80  14 41 5'J  Phoenix San Diego Seattle  78 73 55  51 51 42  


Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Paluf succeeds Baumer Parking tops council agenda as University controller 
By SEAN SMITH 
News Writer 
For all those South Quad res­idents worried about not being eligible for a parking a space in the D6 lot next year, there just may be some good reason­ing for your worries. 
An ad hoc parking commit­tee will meet for the first time tomorrow to begin finalizing proposals on how parking spaces in the D6 lot will be allocated to students during the '97-'98 academic year. Phil Johnson, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame Security and Police, appeared before Hall President's Council (HPC) last night in an attempt to get student feedback on a propos­al expected to be endorsed by the ad hoc committee. 
"We [ND Security] feel very strongly that students should have a voice to see how the space in D6 is allocated," said Johnson. 
With the addition of two new dorms in the South Quad next year, many students who would have normally been guaranteed a parking space in 06 will be forced to park in the 02 lot across Juniper Road from Grace Hall. 
The proposed plan will guar­antee all women. male senior and most male junior South Quad residents a space in the 
• SECURITY BEAT 
12:01 p.m. 
12:11 p.m. 
12:26 p,m. 

The Observer/ Melissa Methany Members of Hall Presidents' Council listen as Judicial Council President Ryan Mcinerney addresses student rights. 
D6 lot. All Carroll Hall resi­dents will also be secured parking spots in D6. 
According to Johnson, about 70 juniors who normally would been guaranteed a space in D6 will be forced to park in D2 as a result of over­crowding. Johnson believes that a lottery will determine which juniors do not receive spaces in D6. However, this plan has yet to be finalized. 
"We're looking at broad pro­posals and trying to consider all options," Johnson said. 
In other HPC news: 
• 
The Interrace Advisory Council is holding a lecture on race relations at Notre Dame on Feb. 5 at the Center for Social Concerns. The lecture will feature David Lamb and will begin at 7 p.m. 

• 
The Sophomore Literary Festival will begin on Feb. 7 and will run through Feb. 12. Events will be held nightly in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Tom Clancy will be the open­ing speaker for the festival on Feb. 7. 



If you took the test  would you score?  
Co  ut.  
Call today  

February 1st, Saturday University of Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
Andrew Paluf, a 1980 Notre Oame alumnus, has been named University controller. Paluf succeeds Frederick H. Baumer Jr., who retired in June after 21 years as con­troller. 
The University controller oversees five University units ­general accounting, research and sponsored programs accounting, accounts payable, payroll, and the cashier's office -and is responsible for finan­cial statement preparation, tax matters, and all accounting activities, including research 
• and sponsored programs. 
Prior to returning to Notre Dame, Paluf served since 1990 in a variety of finance and development positions with Ferro Corporation of Cleveland, a manufacturer of specialty materials for use by industries worldwide. 
Paluf also spent two years as a senior analyst with NACCO Industries and six years in management positions with Ernst and Young. 
Paluf, an accountancy major at Notre Dame, earned a mas­ter's degree in business admin­istration from Indiana University in 1984 and has been a Certified Public Accountant since 1982. 
He was an active member of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, serving on the board for 14 years and as president in 1991. Paluf and his wife, Kelly, a 1982 Notre Dame graduate, shared the club's Award of the Year in 1996. 
• BRAZIL 
Econo01ic instability plagues country 
By PETER MUELLO 
Associated Press Writer 
RIO DE JANEIRO, 

On a continent haunted by a history of dictatorship, nascent democracies hoped to discourage tyranny by embracing the one-term limit for elected officials. 
But popular presidents have emerged, and lawmakers eager for stability are rewrit­ing constitutional rules in one country after another to give presidents more time in office. Brazil's congress is expected to be next. 
Critics fear the trend could give rise to a new breed of "democratic dictators." 
"The guy is elected and re­elected, then he puts his wife in for a term, then his son," said Antonio Delfim Netto, a former Brazilian finance min­ister and foe of re-election. "We re-establish the monar­chy." 
• Brazil's Chamber of Deputies voted Tuesday to amend the constitution to allow re-election of the presi­dent, state governors and mayors. 
The 336-17 vote, with seven abstentions, is the first of four required votes on the amend­ment. 
Allies of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso say they have votes needed to change the constitution and make him eligible to run for a sec­ond four-year term in 1998. 
"Re-election represents political' stability, and that's what Brazil needs today," Rep. Wellington Moreira Franco, a Cardoso supporter, said. 
The yearning for stability run.s deep in a region long beset by military coups, leftist guerrillas and stratospheric inflation. 
Ironically, many countries prohibited re-election to pro­tect democracy from abuses by incumbents. 
That was the rule in Peru when Alberto Fujimori took office in 1990. Two years later, he threw out the consti­tution and closed Congress, saying he needed special powers to fight corruption and guerrilla insurgents. 

AJOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES EVENT 





ensemble ~alilei 
· tbe passion in ancient music 
" ... they play with energy, splendid ensemble, good humor and imagination." 
·The Washington Post 

Sunday, February 2 2:30PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $12/Adult~; $10/ Seniors; $5/Students on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9am -5 pm Mon. -Fri. Credit card orders at 284-4626. 
.1Unts 


~-~~ ~---~--~------~ 
Wednesday, January 29, 1997

~p---.:ag:::__e_4_________----'-------------=The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
than $4,000 a year. efits, accelerate the increase phisticatcd or unlucky because, "Wall Street is fund­Also known as the Personal in eligibility age, and reduce investors might suffer from ing this." She explained her
Security 
Savings Account (PSA) plan, or future benefits for some indi­such a setup. Supporters cite discomfort with a plan that 
continued from page 1 
accounts with a portion of the Social Security revenue going into government supervised, 401(k) type accounts. Under this pIan, .---------, 
workers would have some choices regarding where their m o n e y would be invested. 


The plan Ghilarducci would retain the current benefit structure with "some adjustments." 
Edward Gramlich, sponsor of the plan, is a professor of economics and dean of the School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan. As the chairman of the Advisory Council, Gramlich stated in his own report that it may be nec­essary to "scale back benefits to eliminate today's long-term actuarial deficit." 
He also pointed out that his plan would move more toward a defined contribution plan from the current system of defined benefits and that the move would increase the need for individual responsibility. 
While the plan only received two of the 13 votes in the com­mittee, supporters of the Gramlich Plan note that it is moderate enough to win votes from both Democrats and Republicans, should it be put to a vote in Congress. 
The other extreme was sub­mitted in the form of the Scheiber Plan. The plan is named for the 101-year-old Anne Scheiber who left $22 million in stocks to Yeshiva University. She built the cor­pus through wise investments of an initial $5,000 savings in 1944 from her 23 years at the Internal Revenue Service, where she never earned more more colorfully as the "Radical viduals. the examples of the Chilean would inject Wall Street firms Restructure" or "Do It Supported by Carolyn system, which was changed to like State Street. Fidelity, and Yourself' plan, it suggests that Weaver, a conservative econ­this type of plan in 1981, and Oppenheimer, with the money five percent of current payroll omist and advisor to Bob Dole that of Great Britain which from an additional 110 mil­taxes go into PSAs where they and also the senior advisor to converted in 1985. lion accounts. would be privately managed. the National Commission on "We must remember that As for the votes that would 

Each worker would be Social Security Reform in the Chilean system is a sand­come with the government­responsible for managing their 1982, and Fidel Vargas, the box experiment, implemented owned portion of the stock own retirement funds, but advisory committee's by a dictator," responded market in either plan, supporters say that responsi­youngest member, the Ghilarducci. It is a sandbox, Ghilarducci said that the con­bility would mean the freedom Scheiber Plan is an extension she explained, because, "it is sensus among the experts is to earn more retirement of the individual, an not voluntary and not tested." that the government wouldn't income than under the current increased personal responsi­Furthermore, Ghilarducci vote at all to protect the sepa­system. The plan would also bility ideal. expressed her misgivings ration of government and pri­increase income taxes on ben-Critics point out that unso-about the Scheiber plan vate industry. 
IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING, CALL THE OBSERVERAT 1-5323. 
10% 
j...-sodium nitrite 

20o/o 

cholestero~ ~8% 
you don't want 
to know 

animal fat 





1-800-COLLECT ® 
'44% 

SAVINGS 

Diall-800-COLLECT and save up to 44°/o: 
*For long·dlslance calls. Sulngs based on a 3·mlnule AT&T o~eralar·dlaled lalerslale call. 

Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 


Federal program falls short of protecting horses 
By MARTHA MENDOZA Associated Press Writer 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. 

A federal program to protect wild horses and burros has lost track of more than 32,000 ani­mals placed in adoption, allow­ing people to neglect, abuse and even slaughter some of them for profit. 
In addition, officials of the 
U.S. Bureau of Land Management may have falsified records to cover up the prob­lem and ignored warnings that thousands of adopters have not been checked and have not received titles to their animals, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press. 
"Records are systematically falsified and no one wants to know about it," said Reed Smith, a former BLM adminis­trator who retired from the New Mexico office in 1995. 
In 1971, Congress enacted a law to protect wild horses and burros and place excess ani­mals for adoption. 
In 1979, to better prevent their slaughter or sale, it creat­ed a system of legal titles: The adopter would keep each ani­mal for one year, comply with a health check, then get title. 
Until the title is issued, the 
animal would remain govern­
ment' property. 
Using the BLM's computer­ized records maintained in Denver and obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. the AP found that 32,774 of all adopted animals -20 percent -remain untitled. Legally, those horses and bur­ros are still federal property. 
Earlier this year, the AP reported that the $16 million-a­year program has allowed thousands of titled wild horses and burros to be slaughtered. And the AP found that BLM employees are among those profiting from the slaughter. 
In response to the first report, Wild Horse and Burro Program chief Thomas Pogacnik wrote, "Once title is issued, the animal is private property." 
Under the 1971 law, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt is mandated by Congress to pro­tect wild horses and burros on public lands. 
Babbitt refused to comment for this story Tuesday. 
BLM officials say they rely on spot checks to check on horses that remain untitled but Larry Woodard, the former state director of New Mexico's BLM office, called spot checks "inad­equate." 
"One out of every five ani­mals adopted by the Bureau never being titled would indi­cate that the titling aspect of the adoption program has not been a subject of intense con­cern," Woodard wrote in a 1993 memo. 
A U.S. Justice Department memo from April 1996 indicat­ed that the BLM is not carefully screening adopters because the agency does not want to know what happens to the animals. 
"The Adopt-a-Horse program is seriously flawed .... BLM has an unstated policy of not look­ing too closely at proposed adoptions," wrote Charles Brooks, a Justice Department attorney who had been assist­ing the Texas U.S. attorney's office with an investigation of the program. "The agency's approach to this was its version of 'don't ask, don't tell."' 
A March 27, 1995, internal memo from that investigation quotes BLM law enforcement agent John Brenna as saying 
. that Lili Thomas, a BLM offi­cial, made "a tacit admission of back-dating documents used in the Wild Horse and Burro Program." "Her additional comments were that she did not know if this was illegal or not," Brenna wrote. 
Thomas did not immediately respond to messages left Tuesday requesting comment. Brenna wouldn't comment. 
In the 25 years since the law's passage, the BLM has gathered 165,635 animals in 10 Western states deemed "excess" and given most of them to adopters for $125 each. About 40,000 horses and burros remain in the wild. 
The adopted horses were given to more than 18,000 dif­ferent people. 
Thomas Sharp, a 43-year-old wheat and alfalfa farmer, sits in a West Texas penitentiary, the only person in the country in federal prison for selling untitled horses. 
He says he couldn't afford to feed the animals and didn't bother to send in a form requesting title. "They got me on a signature, but they got me, that's for sure," he said. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Hank Hockeimer of Oklahoma said he hoped Sharp's four-month sen­tence would serve as an exam­ple. 
"Our purpose for prosecuting this case was to send a mes­sage that under this program you can't ostensibly adopt these horses and then sell them before you have title," he said. 
The AP contacted 20 adopters of untitled horses this week, but only two still had their ani­mals. 
One said his horse died, 
another gave his away and the 
rest said they had sold their 
untitled horses, mostly at live­
stock auctions. 

Wild horses sold at auction 
almost all eventually end up 
slaughtered, according to the 
operators of North American 
horse slaughterhouses. 

George Varner Sr., who spent 
20 years as a "killer buyer" for 
slaughterhouses, said one or 
two wild mustangs show up at 
auction barns each month in 
central Mississippi alone. 

Universi of Notre Dame 
African American Student Alliance 
presents 



The Meeting 
A Pin Points Theatre Production 
Malcom. Martin. 



February 2, 1997 2 o'clock p.m. Washington Hall 
Tickets on Sale @ the LaFortune Box Office 
Students: $3 General: $5 

This event is brought to you in celebration of the Dr. Martin L. King Jr. Holiday in conjunction with the Black History Month Celebration. Co-sponsored by Student Government, Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Office o Multicultural Affairs, Amnesty International, Filipino American Student 
Organization and Student Affairs. 
"Don't ask, don't tell" 
Memo from a Department of Justice lawyer criticizing the U.S. Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) horse adoption process. 


Memorandum 
Date
Subject Galloway/BLM Wild Horses Case April22, 1996 
To James H. DeAtley From Charles H. Brooks Assistant United States ERND/Wildlife and Marine Attorney, WD Texas Resources Section 

f""'~.w-'~·:::::::·· :·:·:~· -~ ........ -~---~. """'·-~----,~-­
....----­
Conclusion. The Adopt-a-Horse program is clearly seriously flawed. Faced ""'·I with the need to remove I0,000 horses a year from public lands, BLM has an 
i
unstated policy of not looking too closely at proposed adoptions. 

I
,,,__,.,y
··-·¥--·~ 
·~·~ .. ~· ................... 
The agency's approach to this was its version of "don't ask, don't tell"--that is, do not ask the follow up questions which might elicit information that would preclude transfer of title. So while both and-freely admit that everyone "knows" as a general proposition that most of the horses adopted out go to slaughter eventually, the agency tries to avoid finding out that this will happen in any given adoption. 
i--j>~~."~-·~·"~:.~·j·­
; Melllol'llndu '~ ~ .. / To; Di:ctor . ··~· . ···" .._,,. ..... . 
j From: Attenriol/i,OOJ. Mra R ' 
· Stare . · ernp Con;, rn, S6so( Memo from a BLM official / Subject: Wi Du-ecror. New Alt · expressing concern over I Dare: lid lfors exico untitled horses and the BLM's 
J eili!d Burro h. ,J. f f I'
1' uJy 28 1 '"'gra en orcement o camp ranee rules. 



~:,:~"'~t:::.:.: 
s:oompn~re
1 checks. For the record, I have not been able to do I00% checks due to simple : manpower and dollar constraints. However, I believe 5% to be inadequate to
! prevent abuse and will continue to do what I can within existing funds to be j as aggressive as possible on compliance checks. l-................. -~····· 
~· ····~---. -· 
4. On the subject of untitled horses, I do not believe that we, as a Bureau, can continue to allow this matter to be unresolved. The Solicitor has made it clear to me, in writing, that adopted but yet untitled horses are still the property of the United States and that we are charged with their welfare and protection. Ti:• ihur· (·nd, l wi11 continue In svstema:icaliv work tnw::rd verill.:ation of :.he condition of the 60UD unr.itied ~nin;al> in Nc1v Mcxictl'$ area of juri>diction. Tbs will be aconlinuillg anJ long-term commitment, nut 1feel ittf\U'\l be done. I have been told that untitled horses nationwide number about 45,000. If true, this should be dealt with on the policy level. If it is beyond the ability of the Bureau to deal with compliance numbers of this magnitude, then I suggest that the Solicitor provide advice on whether a point in time could be chosen at which to ministerially write off our compliance responsibility for the animals, with strictguidance from that day forward. 

Source: AP research AP!Tracie Tso 

HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS. 
Earn a Graduate Degree from Georgia tech and 

discover Europe. 
(JH'ering 
Georgia Tech Lorraine Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0250 USA • Tel: 1 404 894 0076 Fax: 1 404 894 2997 gd-academic®gtl.gatech.edu hnp://www.georgiatech-metz.fr 

GEORGIA TECH LORRAINE 
The European Platform of the Georgia Institute of Technology 
• 
Masters and Ph.D. 8 in Eler.trk.al and Computer Engineering from the Georgia Institute oftec.hnoiD!J!J 

• 
DDlJ61e Degrees with European and frenciJ universities andengineering schools 


----·--··---~· 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 29, 1997 

Leaders 
continued from page 1 
month, and are currently in the process of writing a collabora­tive mission statement for the SGA. 
Turbiak credits members of the student government and to the students themselves for the success. "Student government is only as good as the people who support it," said Turbiak. "We work very closely with a lot of gifted people." 
"We are blessed to work with wonderful, gifted women," agreed Miller. 
Turbiak and Miller also believe that the administration has played a key role in the success of the student govern­ment. "We're productive," Turbiak said, "because our administration is so helpful." 
bm;inElSSE~S in and 
confiScated compqt~rs: no 
immediate arrests'?, were 
expected. ''"' 
Software pirate$ ha;ve hit 
major players:;s · as 
Microsoft ··Cor ony 
Computer Entertainment and 
gamemakers Sega ofAmerica 
Inc. and Nintendo ofAinerica. 
In all, the FBI listed nine com­
panies as piracy victims:__ , Turbiak believes respect is the key. The students respec.t the administration. and the admin­istration respects the students. 
The recent Play of the Mind Conference, which hosted sev­eral women's colleges on cam­pus, culminated Turbiak's experience as president. She acknowledged "how lucky [she is] to be in a community like Saint Mary's." 
Turbiak stated that the moti­vating factor of running for such a position stemmed from a basic desire to contribute to the College. "I just wanted to give back to Saint Mary's what it has given to me." 
Although elections will be held soon, Turbiak and Miller plan to continue with their own goals, in addition to helping the new leaders with the transition. Turbiak said that one way they hope to accomplish this is by having joint meetings. 
Jnt.~r"At t~rAh sites or """"ri"'t'o.­bulletin boards. 
They give it away, trade for other software, or sell it askifl:~ ...fO:t}-credit .card num~ 
·ber p~ _··.· ntin_ adv~nce, Often; h ld for substMtiat. ly less t an market value ­anywhere from about $50 to hundred§''of dollars. 
George Grotz, FBI spokesman in San Francisco, 



of Houck. "lie had an extra included 13 speakers and ran ten years. and he used those from Sept. 30 to Oct. 2. 1996.

Houck 

years very well." The program was designed to 
Faculty, staff, and students strengthen the Judeo­
continued from page 1 
expressed sadness at Houck's Christian ethical foundations "John had an enormous death. in business and public-policy impact on me. I am grateful to 
deeisions by fostering dialogue have been his friend and col­
between academic and corpo­league," said Pichler. 'John left a nitch rate leaders and by research Professor Lee Tavis, who here that will not and publications. 
graduated in 1953 with A native of Beloit. Wis.,
easily be filled.' 

Ilouck. said that 1\ouck was Houck received a JD degree voted the most likely to suc­
from the Notre Dame Law ceed. 
School in 1955.
Father Theodore Heslmrgh 

He also held an MBA degree a picture of him behind a from the University of North 
podium with his finger in the Carolina at Chapel Hill and a air and his mouth open, a President Emeritus Father master's degree in law from scenP that reoccurred count­Theodore Hesburgh said. llarvard. 
Jess times throughout his life. 
In the yearbook, there was 
"John left a nitch here that A former Ford and Danforth "Ten years ago, he had an will not be easily filled." fellow, he was a member of aneurysm, and he came within The latest series of lectures the Notre Dame faculty since 
a breath of dying," Tavis said 
in the center's conference 1957. 

Please recYcle The Observer 




The Observer 
is accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experi­ence with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College stu­dent is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interest­ed in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply . Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement toBrad Prendergast by 5:00p.m.; Tuesday, february 4, 1997. For additional information about the position contact Business Manager Matt Casey at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief Liz Foran at 531-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 

Don't let the 
winter blues get 
you down... 
Sign up for the 



LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE 
The Leadership Institute is a non-credit, nine-week leadership course, for freshmen and sophomores. The course will explore such topics as improving communication skills, team building, delegating, improving leadership styles, and utilizing University resources. 
Applications are available from the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. For more details, please call 631-7309 
-·-----------------~·----------------------~------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Disney gains control of E! network 
By FARRELL KRAMER The $321 million television to a change in ownership. Time Comcast to buy out Time Associated Press W rirer deal will give Comcast and Warner Inc. owns 58.4 percent Warner valued El at $550 mil­Disney 68.8 percent ownership of the· network. The other four lion in its entirety. NEW YORK of E! each hold 10.4 percent. The five E! partners are Time 
Walt Disney Co. has teamed Its broadcasts comprise a On Jan. 10, Comcast, the Warner; Comcast; Tele­up with Comcast Corp. to variety of celebrity and general nation's fourth-largest cable Communications Inc.; acquire control of E! entertainment programming operator, disclosed that it had Continental Cablevision, owned Entertainment Television, the and reach more than 42 million won the right to buy out Time by U S West Inc.; and Cox cable network behind "Talk cable subscribers. about two­Warner and would decide by Communications Inc. Soup" and the re-enactment of thirds of all such viewers. early February whether to pro­With the expense of starting 
O.J. Simpson's civil trial. Disney and Comcast plan to ceed. new cable networks going up 
Disney also announced divide their majority stake in E! The deal with Disney repre­and with limited channel Tuesday that it might be willing so that Comcast holds 50.1 per­sents an early go-ahead for the capacity making them difficult to sell The Kansas City Star, cent of it and Disney the rest. purchase. to get on cable systems, com­the Fort Worth (Texas) Star­E! will be managed by Financial terms of the panies looking to expand their Telegram and the other news­Comcast's programming part­Disney/Comcast partnership ability to distribute TV pro­papers and magazines it nership, C3. were not disclosed. gramming are left largely with bought along with ABC last "E! Entertainment Television Sources close to the transac­the option of a purchase. year. is a recognized brand that can tion, however, speaking on That has made E! a valuable 
Unlike the E! deal, the publi­be extended so that it becomes condition of anonymity, said commodity. cations don't fit with Disney's to entertainment what ESPN is Disney would put up the entire Disney, based in Burbank, desire to grow in programming to sports and The Disney $321 million to buy out Time Calif., expanded its broadcast and distribution. Officially, Channel is to families," Disney Warner and Comcast would operations greatly with the Disney said it intends to "begin chairman Michael Eisner said contribute its existing 10.4 per­purchase of ABC Inc., then exploring its strategic options" in a statement. Disney owns cent stake in E! Capital Cities/ABC. for the publishing businesses. both ESPN and its namesake Eventually, Comcast would It has ownership in various The move had been expected Disney Channel. pay Disney back so that its cable properties including ever since Disney announced Late last year, the five cable­investment is in line with its ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNews, The the $19 billion takeover of company partners that own E! overall ownership stake. Disney Channel, Lifetime, A&E Capital Cities/ABC in 1995. kicked off the process leading The process that allowed and the History Channel. 

Can Business Ethics 
En Bottom--Line? 
Wednesday, January 29th 
Oliver Williams, CSC 
5:15p.m. Room 161 of the Business School Open to All 
SRB 
Students for 
Responsible Business 
New leaders for Better Business
--..
~ 

ASIAN HERITAGE WEEK '97 "On Comn1on Ground: The Asian Presence In & Beyond Notre Dame" 



\111,1111 ·~'~0 ;·­
• ~ r 

.. ~ 

Korean Student Association & Office of Multicultural StutlentAffairs 
PRESENTS 

Aetivist Httlttanitarian Edtteatot• 


COURTNI PUGH 
i\.h l'u).!h ft"(C'ully w.1.o.nnmiuMC'd by lilt> lluilrd T>cmucral~uflllinni~ .--------------. ltl he llrr /)irr:r:lnr of !1..-.ian l':.ciric ( )trlrr:~ch llrr rc~~~:pnn!;j/,i/ilic~ 
inc~mlt-rl.n•lllliin:tliu~.A.~i:'\.~ Arnrlic:m _:~rlivisl ... ;ur~l.o:r.ll'l~~~.•lr.r!C fur lhC' 
"Asian American Activism &
\Jmlt1\ Dt"mnt·r;\l.o; flf 1\lutm!", lhr tl'ruhmnl \':tmpn,~n t'S'urlnf 
Chntun/(icne 'W..IJ1t:k l>urhirr fm IIS Srn:\lr, {'tlllRu·o;-.ron:~l 
The Struggle for Garment Worh·rs" 
C·unpai,I!IIS ~~~~~ 1hr Jllmni... lltn•~t· nml Sru;,tr rnrr~ f\h l'riJ.dl i~ nl~n 
:u:li\·r wt!h.o:m·hory.;wiJ:llum.~;~c;!hcO:tld:uul ha.,rd t\.~~~:innlmmiJ~I;!III 
L------------.....1
Wom<"n 1\,\vm·;,h.·o;, f\~~;i;tll /\lnt:linm 1\1\)S Srrvi\'r.... Mit\wr.o;\ A"i;m l\mrrir.111 ~lmknto; lJniun. KurC'illl AmC'rit::m RnouHt' 11.:. Cuhmal C'rnlrr :uHf 1\sinn Aun~riC:\11 llc~nnrrt: Dcvclopmrnl c·mmnillrc 

30 1997 7:00 mHesbur hAuditorium 


page 8 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 29, i 997 
\ l 

r---------------------------------------------------------­
UNIVERSITY oF NoTRE DAME SuMMER 1997 CouRsE LisT 
The 1997 summer session will begin on Monday, June 16 (enrollment) and end on Wednesday, July 30 (final exams). Some courses-primarily in science, mathematics and languages -will begin and end before or after these dates. The summer session Bulletin will contain complete schedule information. The Bulletin will be available at the Summer Session Office (312 Main Bldg.) beginning on Friday, February 7. Information on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, also will be available at the summer session web site (http://www.nd.edu/~sumsess/) beginning on Friday, February 14. 
Notre Dame continuing students -undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 1997 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use DART 1) to register for summer courses and 2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 20. The DART PIN (personal identification number) for summer will be sent to all continuing students in early March. 
Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
AERO 499 Undergraduate Research AME 598 Advanced Studies AME 599 Thesis Direction AME 600 Nonresident Thesis Research AME 699 Research and Dissertation AME 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research ME 321 Differential Equations and 
Applied Mathematics ME 327 Thermodynamics· ME 334 Fluid Mechanics ME 342 Engineering Economy ME 498A Engineering and Technology in 
•

a Global Economy ME 499 Undergraduate Research 
African-American Studies Program 
AFAM 215 Education, Multiculturalism and 
Democracy AFAM 319 Sociology of Sport AFAM 336 Poverty, Inequality and 
American Education 

American Studies 

AMST 448 News Internship AMST 449 Writing Nonfiction AMST 498 Special Studies AMST 598 Special Studies AMST 599 Thesis Direction AMST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 

Anthropology 

ANTH 328 Introduction to Social and Cultural 
Anthropology ANTH 488 Archaeological Field School ANTH 489 Ethnographic Field Methods and 
Techniques 

Architecture 

ARCH 100 Career Discovery in Architecture at Notre Dame ARCH 542 Architecture and Urbanism in Nauplion, Greece 
Art, Art History and Design 
ARHI575 Directed Readings in Art History ARHI599 Thesis Direction ARHI600 Nonresident Thesis Research ARST 209S Ceramics I (Section 01) ARST 209S Ceramics I (Section 02) ARST 243S/443S Metal Casting/Foundry ARST 250 Furniture Studio ARST 285S Photography I ARST 409S/509S Ceramics Studio ARST 485S Studio Photography ARST 499S/599S Thesis Direction ARST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ARST 676 Directed Readings ARST 696 Thesis Project DESN 280/ 
480/580 Multimedia Design DESN 282/ 
482/582S Digital Image Making DESN 330S Furniture Design I DESN 496S Special Studies 
Arts and Letters, Nondepartmental 
AL 298 Visiting Scholar Studies 
• 

Course call numbers, along with all other course information, will be published in the Bulletin and at the web site. 
DART will be 3\'ailable for summer registration from March 19 to June 20. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course, Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 20, must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 1997 will be $198 per credit hour plus a $35 general fee. 
Biological Sciences BIOS 108 Revolutions in Biology BIOS 110 Molecular Genetics, Technology and Society BIOS 494 Directed Readings BIOS 499 Undergraduate Research BIOS 523 Practicum in Environmental Biology BIOS 569 Practical Aquatic Biology BIOS 599 Thesis Direction BIOS 600 Non resident Thesis Research BIOS 672 Special Problems BIOS 699 Research and Dissertation BIOS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Business Administration  Classical and Oriental Languages and Literatures  
COCG 200 Intensive Greek COCG 511 Z Intensive Greek COCL 200 Intensive Latin COCL 511 Z Intensive Latin coss 402 Introduction to Syriac Grammar coss 452 Introduction to Syriac Literature coss 500 z Introduction to Syriac Grammar COSS 500A Z Introduction to Syriac Literature COST 535 Historical Survey of Syriac Christianity in English Communication and Theatre GOTH 205 Introduction to Theatre GOTH 221 Acting: Process GOTH 361/561 Introduction to Film and Video Production GOTH 407 Entertainment and Arts Law GOTH 446 Theatre for Youth GOTH 493A Broadcast Internship (WNDU) GOTH 499 Research for the Advanced Undergraduate Student COTH 598 Special Studies GOTH 599 Thesis Direction COTH 600 Nonresident Thesis Research Computer Applications  
ACCT 231 Accounting and Accountancy I ACCT 232 Accounting and Accountancy II ACCT 371 Accounting Measurement and Disclosure ACCT 380 Decision Processes in Accounting BA 230 Statistics in Business BA 363 Business Law: Contracts BA392 Business Communications BA 490 Corporate Strategy FIN 231 Business Finance FIN 360 Managerial Economics FIN 361 Business Conditions Analysis FIN 370 Investments Theory MARK 231 Principles of Marketing MARK473 Marketing Communication MGT 231 Principles of Management MGT 240 Computers in Business Center for Educational Opportunity UB 102 Understanding Societies UB 104 Finite Mathematics UB 109 Composition and Literature Chemical Engineering  
CAPP 243 Introduction to Computers CAPP 315 Management Information Systems CAPP 385 Artificial Intelligence CAPP 395 Applied Multimedia CAPP 497 Special Projects CAPP 498 Departmental Tutorial CAPP 499 Special Topics Computer Science and Engineering CSE 221 Logic Design and Sequential Circuits CSE 232 Advanced Programming CSE 331 Data Structures CSE 498 Directed Studies CSE 499 Undergraduate Research CSE 598 Advanced Studies CSE 599 Thesis Direction CSE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research CSE 698 Advanced Topics CSE 699 Research and Dissertation CSE 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Economics  
CHEG 499 Undergraduate Research CHEG 599 Thesis Direction CHEG 600 Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699 Research and Dissertation CHEG 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Chemistry and Biochemistry CHEM 115 General Chemistry I CHEM 116 General Chemistry II CHEM 117 General Chemistry I CHEM 118 General Chemistry II CHEM 119L General Chemistry I -Lab CHEM 120L General Chemistry II -Lab  
ECON 123 Principles of Economics I  
CHEM 223 Elementary Organic Chemistry I  ECON 224 Principles of Economics II  
CHEM 223L Elementary Organic Chemistry Lab I  (Section 01)  
CHEM 224 Elementary Organic Chemistry II  ECON 224 Principles of Economics II  
CHEM 224L Elementary Organic Chemistry Lab II  (Section 02) 
CHEM 477 Directed Readings  ECON 498 Special Studies  
CHEM 499R Undergraduate Research  ECON 599 Thesis Direction  
CHEM 599R Thesis Direction  ECON 600 Nonresident Thesis Research  
CHEM 694 Directed Readings CHEM 699R Research and Dissertation CHEM 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research  ECON 697 Special Topics ECON 698 Directed Readings ECON 699 Research and Dissertation  
Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences  ECON 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research  
CE 100A Civil Engineering Concepts  Electrical Engineering  
CE 100B Civil Engineering Concepts CE 498 Directed Studies CE 499 Undergraduate Research CE 598 Advanced Studies CE 599R Thesis Direction CE 600R Nonresident Thesis Research CE 698 Advanced Topics CE 699R Research and Dissertation CE 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research  EE 222 Introduction to Electrical Science EE 224 Z Electrical Circuits I EE 232 Introduction to Electronic Circuits EE 242 Z Electronics I EE 498 Directed Studies EE 499 Undergraduate Research EE 598R Advanced Studies EE 599 Thesis Direction  
GEOS 499 Undergraduate Research  EE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research  

... 

Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

EE 698 Advanced Topics EE 699 Research and Dissertation EE 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Engineering, Nondepartmental EG 100A Introduction to Engineering EG 100B Introduction to Engineering EG 498 Research Experience for Undergraduates English  Mathematics MATH 104 Finite Mathematics MATH 105 Elements of Calcu Ius I MATH 108 Elements of Calculus II for Business MATH 120 Calculus B MATH 211 Computer Programming and Problem Solving MATH 323 Introduction to Probability MATH 499 Undergraduate Reading MATH511Z Computer Programming and Problem Solving MATH 555 Game Theory and Other Decision Processes MATH 698 Advanced Graduate Reading MATH 699 Research and Dissertation MATH 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Medieval Institute  Romance Languages and Literatures ROFR 102 Beginning French II ROFR 103 Intermediate French ROFR 104 Conversational French ROFR 399 Special Studies ROFR 500 French Graduate Reading ROFR 597 Directed Readings ROFR 599 Thesis Direction ROFR 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ROFR 697 Special Studies ROIT 101 Beginning Italian I ROIT 102 Beginning Italian II ROIT 103 Intermediate Italian ROIT 399 Special Studies ROIT 599 Thesis Direction ROSP 101 Beginning Spanish I ROSP 102 Beginning Spanish II ROSP 103 Intermediate Spanish ROSP 104 Conversational Spanish ROSP 399 Special Studies ROSP 444 Love in 20th-Century Spanish Literature ROSP 497 Special Studies ROSP 500 Spanish Graduate Reading ROSP 597 Directed Readings ROSP 599 Thesis Direction ROSP 600 Nonresident Thesis Research -ROSP 697 Special Studies Science, Nondepartmental sc 498 Research Experience for Undergraduates sc 598 Advanced Studies Sociology soc 102 Introduction to Sociology soc 220 Social Psychology soc 232 Social Problems soc 242 Marriage and Family soc 300 Foundations of Sociological Theory soc 302 Research Methods soc 319 Sociology of Sport  
ENGL 301W Fiction Writing ENGL313 Linguistics ENGL 324A The Spy Novel ENGL 409B Writing Nonfiction ENGL 440B Shakespeare in Performance ENGL 440E Shakespearean Comedy ENGL 475 The Gothic Imagination ENGL 487 The American Novel ENGL 493A 20th-Century Feminist Fiction ENGL 495E Novels Into Film ENGL 498 Directed Readings ENGL 500 English for Non-Native Speakers ENGL 508 Studies in Critical Theory: Benjamin, Blanshot, Foucault, Deleuze ENGL 575 20th-Century British Literature ENGL 589A Mark Twain and the American Imagination ENGL 598 Special Studies ENGL 599 Thesis Direction ENGL 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ENGL 699 Research and Dissertation ENGL 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research German and Russian Languages and Literatures GE 101 Beginning German I GE 102 Beginning German II GE 103 Beginning German Ill GE 240 Conversational German GE 500 German-Graduate Reading RU 101 First Year Russian  
Ml432/532 Old English Language and Readings Ml470/570 Introduction to Medieval Latin Ml497 Directed Readings Ml517 Paleography Ml597 Directed Readings Ml599 Thesis Direction Ml600 Nonresident Thesis Research Ml699 Research and Dissertation Ml700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Music  
MUS 220 Introduction to Music MUS 310/510 Piano MUS 311/511 Organ MUS 313 Guitar MUS 314/514 Voice MUS 316/516 Cello MUS 415A/515A Violin MUS 498 Undergraduate Special Studies  
Government and International Studies  MUS 598 Special Studies MUS 599 Tllesis Direction  soc 336 Poverty, Inequality and American Education  
GOVT 308 American Voting and Elections  MUS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research  soc 498 Directed Readings  
GOVT 325 Problems of International Relations GOVT 346 Contemporary Ideologies GOVT 397R Directed Readings GOVT 599 Thesis Direction GOVT 600 Nonresident Thesis Research GOVT 692 Directed Readings-Government GOVT 696 Examination Preparation GOVT 699 Research and Dissertation GOVT 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research History  Philosophy  soc 599 Thesis Direction soc 600 Nonresident Thesis Research soc 655 Directed Readings soc 699 Research and Dissertation soc 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Theology  
PHIL 201 Introduction to Philosophy (Section 01) PHIL 201 Introduction to Philosophy (Section 02) PHIL 215 Education, Multiculturalism and Democracy PHIL 221 Philosophy of Human Nature PHIL 245 Medical Ethics PHIL 261 Philosophy of Religion PHIL 498 Directed Readings PHIL 603 Directed Readings PHIL 699 Research and Dissertation PHIL 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Physics  
THEO 200 Foundations of Theology: Biblical/Historical (01) THEO 200 Foundations of Theology: Biblical/Historical (02) THEO 224 Why God Became Human THEO 250 Roads to God THEO 270 Religious Ethics and the Environment THEO 498 Directed Readings THEO 499 Undergraduate Research THEO 500 Introduction to Graduate Studies THEO 500A Themes and Texts in the Catholic Tradition THEO 501 Historical Survey of Syriac Christianity in English THEO 502A Sanctification in Judaism THEO 504 Prophets THEO 505 Wisdom THEO 518 Parables THEO 522 Reformation History THEO 527A Intensive Course: Aquinas THEO 530 Fundamentals of Systematic Theology THEO 531 Revelation THEO 532 Christo logy  
HIST 317 Medieval Society HIST 352 Transformations in American Society: 1880-1920 HIST 360 Total War: American Society During World War II HIST 388 Environment and Environmental Movements in American History HIST 454 Civil War and American Society HIST 490 Directed Readings HIST 590 Directed Readings HIST 599 Thesis Direction HIST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research HIST 697 Directed Readings HIST 699 Research and Dissertation HIST700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Program in the History and Philosophy of Science  
PHYS 221 Physics I PHYS 222 Physics II PHYS 499 Undergraduate Research PHYS 598 Special Topics PHYS 699 Research and Dissertation PHYS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Program of Liberal Studies  
PLS 281 Great Books Seminar 1: Homer to Early Plato PLS 282 Great Books Seminar II: Plato to Bonaventure PLS 477 Directed Readings 
HPS 501 Values and the New Biology  
HPS 502 Human Genetics for Humanists  PLS 501 John Henry Newman's The Rise  THEO 533 Ecclesiology  
HPS 503 Justice, Medicine and Disease  and Progress of Universities  THEO 534 Doctrine of God  
HPS 504 Nature, Theology and Genetics  PLS 502 Milton and Wordsworth:  THEO 539 The History of Spirituality  
HPS 505 Death, Dying and the Law  The English Epic  THEO 546 Dynamics of Hindu-Christian  
HPS 506 Z Institute in Science and Religion  PLS 504 -Basic Issues in Political Philosophy  Interaction  
HPS 599 Thesis Direction HPS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research HPS 604 Directed Readings HPS 699 Research and Dissertation HPS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies  PLS 507 Joyce, Dubliners Psychology PSY 211 Introductory Psychology PSV 341 Experimental Psychology I: Statistics PSY 350 Developmental Psychology PSY 354 Abnormal Psychology  THEO 552 Social Ethics THEO 560 Liturgical History THEO 561 Christian Initiation THEO 562 Eucharist THEO 563 Liturgical Prayer THEO 564 Liturgical Year THEO 565 Liturgical Theology THEO 566B Penance  
liPS 396/496 Directed Readings  PSY 397 . Special Studies  THEO 566E Liturgy for the Sick  
liPS 427/527 Conflict Resolution: Theory and  PSY 402 Psychological Testing  THEO 572C Liturgy and Popular Culture  
Practice  PSY 453 Behavioral Pediatrics  THEO 573L Comprehensive Review­ 
liPS 445P/545P Education, Multiculturalism and  PSY 497 Special Studies  Liturgical Studies  
Democracy  PSY 530 Research Methodology  THEO 573T Comprehensive Review­ 
liPS 501 Colloquium on Cross-Cultural  PSY 534 Group Dynamics  Theological Studies  
Understanding  PSY 641 Professional Issues  THEO 574C Psalms in Worship  
liPS 530 Peace Studies Laboratory  PSY 646 Seminar in Family Therapy  THEO 598 Directed Readings  
liPS 599 Thesis Direction  PSY 691B Advanced Issues in Statistics and  THEO 599 Thesis Direction  
liPS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research  Research Design  THEO 600 Nonresident Thesis Research  
liPS 693 Directed Readings  PSY 693 Research Special Topics  THEO 698 Directed Readings  
liPS 695 Field Experiences  PSY 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research  THEO 699 Research and Dissertation THEO 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research  







VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... ] oey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­
tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4 543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• Goo 'N liFE 

Footsteps of premonition 
The movie "Shoes of the Fisherman" is one of my favorites. Released in 1968, it tells the story of a fictional Russian bishop who goes from being a political prisoner in Soviet Siberia to Pope of the Roman Catholic Church. Looking back, the movie -and the book on which it was based -seems a sort of "premonition" about the elec­tion of Karol Wojtyla as Pope John Paul II in 1978. Both the fictional Kiril Lakota and the current Catholic Polish 
Julie Ferraro 

Pontiff were heralded as "the first non­Italian pope in over four centuries." 
"Shoes of the Pisherman" touches even more deeply upon modern life. In the movie, a young priest's writings are being investigated for supposedly being "dangerous to the Faith." During one meeting of the commission, the priest is asked if he believes God to be the author of violence and death. He replies that, in many places throughout history, murder has been considered a religious ritual, "just as it is now justi­fied in the form of war. Hopefully war, too, will be outlawed someday." 
Personally, I don't think the last statement is overly optimistic, in view of world conditions. Conflict encom­passes the globe, and much of it involves religious tensions and death. Can there be an excuse for any of it? For those whose task it has been to negotiate peace between the warring factions, wouldn't it be simpler to say, "If you can't live together in peace, ignore each other and pray for each other in your own way." 
Consider Jerusalem. People of many different faiths call it "the Holy City," yet there is fighting all around it ­even in its very streets. History can trace such struggles back to the "Holy Crusades" and even further. Other examples could be cited, but the whole prospect is depressing. 
What can we do in the face of these horrors? On the spiritual side, we can pray. Some may say that's the "easy way out." However, though God may not be the "author" of violence and death, it is this God who can inspire warring parties toward a change ·of heart. 
In a more practical vein, we ean start being peacemakers right where we are. Whether it be differenees of raee, religion or any of the 1,001 barriers that build walls between us, we can open ourselves to a greater under­standing of those commonalities that make us lovable, as we are loved uneonditionally by God. It may mean putting aside our "pride" and talking to those who we ordinarily would avoid. It's worth it, though! 
In the second half of "Shoes of the Fisherman," Pope Kiril puts everything on the line to help make peace between a famine-ridden, starving China and his native U.S.S.R. It is a big risk which even some at the Vatican cannot support. But, from Kiril's personal experience, he knows that taking such risks are part of being human, part of having faith. Surely, it wouldn't take spending 20 years in a frozen prison camp for us to grasp that concept! 
Sure, it's fiction. Still, aren't there people throughout history -public and personal -who have really stepped out in faith to help others? Can we imagine ourselves doing the same? If not, why not? We can put an end to wars by being peaeemakers whoever we are, wherever we go. Give it a try. 
Julie Ferraro is a Secretary in the Friemann Life Science Center . 
• LETTER To THE EDITOR 


Voices sp,~ak fpr rJght to life 
Dear Editor: 
This week, members of the ND/SMC Right to Life organization journeyed to Washington D.C ~o participate in the . 24th Annual March for Life. As part of that representative group, l consider myself privileged to have been a part of history. 
Abortion and the right -to life is one of the great American socio-political con· troversies; its meritable abolishment will-be the next step in the process of expanding the establishment of basic human rights in the United States. I find it troubling that even as we cele­brated the liberation of one sot of rights on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, we were endeavoring to bring about the estab­lishment or another equally important body of legislative measures. 
··The Right tq Life, like the Women's Suffrage and Civil Rights movement. is a struggle in which human rights and equality are set in opposition to the political agenda of a group of people which views those rights as an obstruc· tlon to its convenience. Men long opposed women's right to vote because they were fearful of losing their power in government. The Civil Rights move­ment continued because people refused to accept the tremendous evil of segre· gation and hatred. Jt was more conve­nient to let it continue than to end it, for those in power were in the comfortable posi~ion of notcsuffering themselves tense, is wrong? 
However, those who marched on the Supreme Court are themselves testimo­nial to the diversity and commitment of the Pro-Life movement. The March had representation by Jews, Baptists, Episcopalians, Russian Orthodox and even non-Christians. Groups comprised of thr. fathers of aborted children and mQthers who have undergone the pro­cedure and suffered from its tragic psy· chological consequences marched on our nation's capitol. The elderly and disabled Americans who fear the possi· bility of "assisted suicide" and dread its implications let their presence be known. 
Most overwhelming, however, was the sheer magnitude of young Americans who raised their voices and refusnd to be ignored by those in governmerit. When asked what he had to say to the youth at the March, Cardinal Bernard Law responded, "It's not what we have to say to our youth; it's what they·arc saying to us." Do not be mislead: it is a very diverse majority of citizens who see the injustice in our law and seek to cor· rect it. 
The March was a truly moving experi· ence for the ND/SMC Right to Life group. Many whose lives had been personally touched by the Pro-Life movement spoke to us and expressed their. most personal and intimate feelings; Notre pame fans and alumni were every­
fronrthe inhumane, amoral affects of :<where, cheering us on and joining our the law. The same is the case for abor· ranks as we sang the Alma mater· and tioil and assisted suicide. ND Victory March; clergy prayed with 
People often think that the Pro-Life us as we said the rosary; children ran IP-?Y~ment is primarily sustained by a midst us,th~nking us with their smiles. popwation ofold, Caucasian, anti-femi~ ·And we aij participated in history, t~tk· :nine, Catholic priests. Thata~sumption J)lg one inore step toward our goal of couldn't be further from the truth. Of protecting life. course, that is notto say that religious gr?~PS do not fpmprise a .sign,iflcant 
percentage oft~~ gro·Life pop:Ulation. only makes seriso: what cod~fe · person can truly say in his heart thathe doesn't believe murder, under any pre­
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU • fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Beware the fury of a patient man." 
-John Dryden 





VIEWPOINT
page 11 Wednesday, January 29, 1997 
• lEnER To THE EmroR 
'Lunch Fast' program aids the hungry around the world 
Dear Editor: ence over much longer periods of time. 
how many people r-----:----~A?'~~~~;:------:-l
Imagine for a moment that you are However, our efforts are still greatly you'll be nourishing g walking alone through the woods, appreciated. by giving up just one b around St. Mary's lake on a beautifut In return for our sacrifices, the meal a week! ~ sunlit afternoon, and up ahead you University of Notre Dame Food Services Many students claim lJ notice a child who appears to be drown­agrees to donate the cost of each meal that they can't afford $. ing in waist-deep water. Assuming that skipped to the WHC. We, in, turn, dis­to skip lunch because ~ no one would ever learn of your deed, tribute the money among several hunger they don't get up in would you go through with the task of relief organizations throughout the time for breakfast. saving this child'? If your answer is no, world. By not eating lunch at the dining Our response to this is then you need not read any further. hall once a week (a task simpler than two-fold. First, wak­
Whether we recognize it or not, every saving a drowning child) you are feeding ing up a little earlier one of us is faced with a similar scenario hungry children. each Wednesday isn't eaeh day of our lives. Consider the mil­We send funds to the following grass­too much too ask. lions of people who lived through this root development projects: Second, the purpose day without anything to eat. Are we not Chol-Chol Foundation: helps educate of the fast isn't to see just as obliged to help them as we are peasant farmers in Central and South how much physical that helpless child drowning? Yet so America so they may one day be able to pain we can endure. often we let the days pass us by without live and feed themselves independently. We aren't masochists! making even the smallest effort to do Caritas: runs educational and voca­
If you can't control ~~~~~;::::::::::=;:::::;:::;.;-~
something about world hunger. Please tional training projects in impoverished 
your own temptations L---------.:!a.\l~.:::!o<::....__ __J~.......:~.---"""'..,
don't let another day slip away. areas of Bangladesh. you're not going to be 
So many people ask themselves, "What Mar del Plata: located in Argentina, excommunicated from the WHC. Keep South Bend.) can I do? How is one person going to this small soup kitchen has doubled the in mind that our goal is to make our­A man approached a child standing on make a difference?" For starters you number of children it feeds since our selves more aware of hunger and its a beach as thousands of fish washed can join the Wednesday Lunch Fast group began sending funds. Feeding effects while at the same time doing ashore. The child threw the fish back sponsored by the World Hunger these children enables them to go to something very concrete and substantial into the water one by one in order to Coalition here at Notre Dame. school instead of having to work. In the to assist hunger relief organizations. keep them alive. The man asked, "What 
The Fast requires that you abstain long run they will be better equipped to The WHC accomplishes the two-fold are you hoping to accomplish? Do you from eating for a few hours each educate their children. goal of providing relief to the hungry really think it will make a difference? Wednesday of the semester, from the Currently we are-the only university and making the Notre Dame community The child replied, "It will make a differ­time the dining halls close for breakfast who has ever attempted such a project. more aware of world hunger through ence to this one," as he threw another until they open for dinner. The purpose Last semester, with only around 200 more activities than just the Wednesday fish back into the water. of fasting is to make ourselves a little bit fasters, we raised almost $2000. If Lunch" Fast. We also provide more aware of what it is like to go with­more people were to join now, we could Thanksgiving and Easter Food Baskets 
STEPHANIE SLUKA out food. Of course we realize that the raise so much more. It is estimated that locally for single-parent families in KRISTIN BINIEK 'hunger pains' we might experience are $5.00 will feed 2 adults (2 meals a day) South Bend and we sponsor the Crop 
Presidents

only a fraction of what others experi-for 7 days in Bangladesh. Just think ~of Walk (a 3 km walk through downtown 
World Hunger Coalition 
• WHERE I'M CALUNG fROM 
Waving flag of similarity smothers new experiences 

As a second semester senior facing the impending doom lurking in the post­graduate future, I long for better, sim­pler days -days when I was a fledgling freshman, an all too arrogant sopho­more, a drunken junior; days when all the .real world meant to me was a half 
Thomas 



Coyne 

hour of quality MTV. Yet as much as I will miss my glory days on this campus, I have come to realize that there are things about student life here that I am ready to leave behind-far behind. 
While I may be running the risk of alienating a good chunk of my reader­ship, I think it's time a bit of my tongue­slightly-in-cheek criticism was thrust upon them. By 'them' I mean YOU ­you .Joe Domers out there, you cookie cutter reproductions fresh from the oven of the conservative Catholic white world. 
Now d!m't take this personally (or do -I don't really care -I'm a second semester senior, remember?) as it is not particular individuals here whom I find disenchanting. Rather, I have become disgusted by the herd mentality plaguing Notre Dame's homogenous mass of col­lege students who look, act, and think the. same. We come to this campus from all corners of the earth and after four years of being processed by the University machine, we change into something which I, as much as anyone, have regrettably become -the Notre Dame cliche. 
I don't need to describe or define it­just look around. It surrounds you, engulfs you, suffocates you and mak_ps what should be a space for diversity, open-mindedness, and a wide range of outlooks and experience into a space of emotional, social, and intellectual paral­ysis. The enemy is ourselves, we the archetypal Domers, those who have taken the stereotypes and the cliches and made them our collective identity. We wave the flag of similarity and applaud our unity, reveling in the glory and comfort of being around others who are just like us. 
Unity is laudable, but on this campus our 'sameness' goes to the ugly extreme as it is forged at the price of individuali­ty. I understand that particular Universities attract certain people, but the make-up of the student body at Notre Dame should cause us all to pause, to take a good look at ourselves, and to wonder how such. a large number of individuals could be the same in atti­tudes, appearance, and appreciations. The ND student body is consistent, pre­dictable, cliched. With four months left here I search for fresh perspectives, new faces, and different ideas so that my faith in us Domers m1ght be restored. Thus far it has been a struggle -a stale struggle with the same. 
We arc mos~ly white, mostly conserva­tive, mostly budding professionals, most­ly middle to upper class, mostly Catholic, mostly dressed straight from the pages of J Crew, mostly heterosexual, mostly Dave Matthcws/Phish!Rusted Root fans, mostly sexually repressed, mostly over­achievers, mostly semi-professional drinkers, mostly ardent students, mostly too much like our parents, mostly wait­ing to take a place in line in a world that will reward and celebrate all of the above. 
This is not the University experience. I didn't know what to expect when I came to college, but looking back on four years that had so much potential for growth, I regret to think that many of us, myself included, are leaving this place as the same person we were when we arrived, never having questioned or constructed our own view of the world, never having changed. We spent four years swallowing others' values -our parents spent eighty grand to keep us safe in a conservative Catholic utopia. For most of us, it worked. 
I can hear you now-"It's not me he's talking about -I am my own person, I am an individual, I am not one of the herd. I even have an official ND 'Our Strength is Our Diversity' t-shirt. "' So tell me, when was the last time you questioned your church or your parents; when have you examined why you believe what you believe or why you like what you like? And I am not talking about arguing with the rents about cur­few or career plans or disagreeing with the church's stance on women in the clergy-I am talking about constructing one's self, one's person, one's identity, and not letting larger institutional or communal forces do it for you. 
Just look at how this campus handles and confronts that which is 'different.' Do we make efforts to tolerate and understand alternate sexual lifestyles at Notre Dame? Of course not -instead we follow the Catholic yet un-Christian approach and refuse to acknowledge, accept, and appreciate the differences in others, sticking to the belief that what isn't right for us can't be right for any­one else. We sneer at liberals and bleed­ing hearts and call for conservative leadership because it keeps Daddy's tax bracket low. We look at minorities with either disinterest or, on some level, even distrust. We keep to ourselves. We stick with our own. We're safe with the same. 
We retreat into our comfortable worlds where we are alike -and, indeed, it is comforting and enjoyable to be with people who are like ourselves. But is it always right? Is it an educa­tion? Is it eye-opening? Or is it spirit­crushing? 
Look around at your next SYR or foot­ball tailgate or sweaty dorm party or at any one of Notre Dame's lovely drinking establishments -you will see the same faces of the same colors of the same people wearing the same clothes. You will hear the same conversations from people with the same outlooks and the same attitudes. And if you are at all interested in growing, learning, or push­ing your beliefs, expectations, and potential, it should scare the hell out of you. 
I'm not trying to assign blame for this lamentable situation. I don't hold some big brother behind the curtain character at fault for rolling out carbon copies of Domers. I blame us. I blame myself. We have internalized cliches, stereotypes, and have accepted them as our identity. We are alike because we either fear the different or do not have the time or interest to examine who we are. We are individuals, but one wouldn't be able to tell from taking a look around this cam­pus. 
We mold that which is different into that which fits, we shape ourselves to match, and thus we snuff out originality and kill variety. You can't dance to "Brown Eyed Girl?" Tough. You don't drink like it's your job? Why? You pierced your what? Where are your khakis and blue blazer'? You don't agree with us, you don't look like us, you don't think like us, you don't want to be like us? We can't understand it. We are all so happy here, so together, so safe, so the same. 
You don't agree? Once again, you're not alone. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters Major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 


ACCENT
page 12 Wednesday, January 29, 1997 
• ACCENT ASKS 

How do you cope with 
South Bend's arctic conditions? 


"I like It!" 
Heather Tonk Junior, Lewis 

"You just have to accept the snow because this is South Bend." 
Lewis Dawson Freshman, Carroll 



"Well, I slip a lot." 
Stephanie Cho Junior, Walsh 

"Snowmobiling! Need I say 
more?" 

Bill Cerney Junior, Fisher 



It's a good stress reliever to go sledding down Lyons Hill in the middle of the night." 
Bonnie Brandes Junior, Cavanaugh 

"Snow SUCKS! We should move Notre Dame to Florida." 
Jason Jansen Junior, Zahm 

The Observer/Rachel Sederberg 


Culture Abou 

Asian Multicultural He 
By JOSEPH WEILER Assistant Accent Ediwr 
cultural heritage at the 
University of Notre Dame and 
aint Mary's College may not be one of the most diverse in the nation. As evident as this fact is, even more evident is the fact that this campus is not simply white, and not simply black and white. Students come here from all over the world to live and learn. They come from Iowa, Korea, 
Tie 
The Asian American Association, the Vietnamese Student Association, Filipino American Student Organization, Korean Stud'ent Association, and the University of Notre Dame Office of Multicultural Student Affairs have arranged for a speaker to come each day of this week and speak to the student body. It is to run from Monday thru Saturday. The overall theme this year will be: "On Common Ground; The Asian Presence in & Beyond Notre Dame." 
Multicultural Student State University~ The: speech was, "Decoding 1 Affirmative Action. 
Mr. Mooko obtained h Education from the 1: Vermont. His Masters American Enrollme~ Education: Hacial C Impact of Affirmative focal pint of his presentc In his speech Mooko jof the arguments use Affirmative Action. But 
California, Kenya, France, the """"',....,..,--,..-,,.....,......C"110'""------,,........,...,....--,-_,....,..--.,-,------=~==----, this Phillipincs, Vietnam, and to many more. that i 
In an institution of higher an ~ learning, such as this one, it Affirn is expected that its students a pt look past those physical belie 

By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON Associate Accent Editor 
A
s digital and color techniques 
push photography into the 
modern era, its modest black and white roots arc sometimes for­gotten. Before photography was even considered an art however, it served as one of the greatest devices for affecting the way in which society sees and documents itself. The 19th century photographer George N. Barnard(1819 -1902) recognized both the artistic and documentary purposes of the new advancement before many of his contemporaries, and his photographs reflect this real­ization. It is to this that the Snite dedicates its current exhibit, "Civil War Photographs by George N. Barnard." 
Barnard moved from New York to travel into the South with General Sherman's troops during the Civil War. He became his official photog­rapher in 1864, and compiled a book of 61 of these photographs. 
Perhaps one of the best known pic­torial accounts of the Civil War, Barnard's book greatly impacted his contemporaries, and although his work was largely forgotten for gener­ations, the photographs have been rediscovered and continue to impress more than a century later. 
ACCENT
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 page 13 



ds on Campus 
itage Week Under Way 
many in opposing before he did e purported emonstrate order to be pponent of ative Action, rson must e that dis-
nation no exists. ko believed 
anyone who tock in this of thinking olish. lie that racism have "gone rground" in it is less bla­but it is still 
nt. oko also dis­d the argu­
that tive Action is of anti-dis­ation. lie e example of ly-qualified, student This student 
w works of historical 
is applicable. If the minority student receives the enrollment spot that might have belonged to the white stu­dent, he is not being discriminated agianst. 
His expectations were simply not met. Mooko also went on to demon­strate the college admittance is not completely meritorious. Only sixty percent of students arc admitted based on grades. The other forty percent are admitted because of lega­cy (a father, mother, or other relative attended there}, or background, be it financial or racial. 
In particular, Mooko addressed the issue that the Asia and Pacifie race was negatively affected by Affirmative Action. Apparently, may people feel that, in general, the Asian-Pacifie race is rich, affluent, and every child is born a wiz kid. 
This type of attitude leads to the feeling that those people to whom this stereotype does not apply are not receiving the benefits of Affirmative Action. This fear was put aside by the reassurance that this was simply not true. The only thing that abolish­ing Affirmative action would do would to deter the progress already made by minorities. 
In his final words, Mooko called for the reformation of the system. Many pe9ople believe that Affirmative Action today is far too liberal. He, however, challenged us to view it as being too conservative. 
The only thing that AA is doing right now is to put minorities into a predestined position in the system. Once the population rises to a point where the minorities become a majority, then America may very well turn into another South Africa. 
/s at the Snite 
While some works are on loan from 
the Notre Dame Archives, other 
items are from the Art Institute of 
Chicago. The collections are exten­

sive, and provide a strong base from 
· which one can develop an under­standing of both Barnard and his work. 
An exhibit of this historical and artis­tic importance would be a fine addition to any museum, and is especially impres­sive in one as rela­tively small as the 
· Snite. 

Anyone could walk through and observe these pho­tographs easily in half an hour, and feel that their time had been well-
spent. To let this learning opportunity leave the Snite unappreciated would 

Barnard's work 
remains an impressionable legacy for 
all who choose to be affected by it. 

Speakers this week 
Mr. Dang T Pham, from the United States Department of Education, and the Deputy Directory for Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs was scheduled to speak on Tuesday on the subject of Bilingual education, but the event was canceled due to unforseen circumstances. No make-up date has been set. 
Mr. Emil Guillermo, an author and colum­nist for Asian Week, the New York Filipino Express, Filipinas Magazine and Northwest Asian News is slated to speak tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. His topic is: "Asian Spin: The New Race Politics; Not Just Black and White." Mr. Guillermo has done work as atalk show host, television news anchor, and arts critic. Currently, he is an independent journalist, radio-TV broadcaster and investigative humorist. Bis work is dis­tributed nationally through the Progressive Media Project, and has appeared in the Los Angeles Times, The Washington Post, and USA Today, , among others. 
Ms. Courtni Sujoo Pugh, the Assistant to the Executive Director-Chinese American Service League Asian Political and Community Activist, is scheduled to speak on Thursday at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom on the subject of "Asian American Activism & the Struggle for Garment Workers." Ms. Pugh recently was nominated by the United Democrats of Illinois to be the Director of Asian Pacific Outreach. Her responsibilities included coordinating Asian American activists and supporters for the United Democrats of Illinois; the combined campaign effort of Clinton/Gore '96, Dick Durbine for U.S. Senate, Congressional Campaigns and the Illinois House and Senate races. Ms. Pugh is also active with such orga­nizations as the Oakland-based Asian Immigrant Women Advocates, Asian American AIDS Services, and the Midwest Asian American Students Union, 
About the Exhibit 
*Civil War Photographs by George Barnard will remain at the Snite until February 9, 1997. 
*Admission to the museum is free, but a $3 donation is suggested. 
*Snite hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday thru Saturday, and 1p.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday. The museum is closed on Monday. 
* A lecture on the the life and work of George Barnard will be conducted by expert Keith Davis on Thursday, January 30 at 7:30 p.m. in the Snite's Annenberg Auditorium. It is free and open to the public. 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 

Common Ground is the Most Stable 
By NORA MEANY Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

!
guess it's fitting that I am writing the Accent Speaks the week that we run stories on multicultural heritage. I am not sure of my heritage, be it multicultural or not. I'm adopted, so your guess is as good as mine. 
However, this is not a great tragedy. Any serious column I 
could attempt to write on this subject would resemble a melo­
dramatic movie of the week. To be quite honest, the idea of 
Tori Spelling wailing, "Nobody understands, I don't know my 
heritage!" makes me ill. So let's instead focus on amusing 
mishaps of my childhood based on my gullibility and failure to 
grasp reality. This is more like Three's Company-which is 
more of my style. 

I mentioned before that I was gullible as a child. This is an 
understatement. I believed everything that was said to me, 
even when it was so blatantly wrong. A good example of this 
involves my older brother John. 

John found great amusement in feeding me lies and watching 
me flounder. By my sixth birthday, I was convinced that I was 
100% everything, thanks to him. I raised my hand in class to 
speak about the heritage of all nationalities, explaining that 
these were my people ! John even made up countries, just to 
spite me. (Have you ever heard of the Branniganstraw country 
in South America? My family is from there.) 

My teachers noticed the obvious physical discrepancies 
between what I said and how I looked. Also, many of my stories 
overlapped given the fact that I claimed to be half English, half 
Hispanic, half Asian, half African American, half Native 
American and half Lithuanian. I'm neither a biology major nor 
a mathematician, but I've always believed that it is physically 
impossible to be 300% of anything when dealing with nationali­
ty. But logic hardly comes to play in the reasoning of a gullible 
first grader with an "honest" older brother. 

Attributing my lies to an overactive imagination, my teachers 
called in Mom and Dad for a conference. Red-faced but 
amused, they took me home and had a heart to heart with me 
concerning what my heritage was, or namely what it was not. 
"You are Irish, English, Polish, German and Italian." my 
father stated triumphantly. "Oh no, wait.....that's your brother. 
Let's see, you aren't Polish .... so you must be Dutch. Are you 
Dutch? Mary, which one is Dutch again?" Huh? Exactly. The 
only concrete lesson I had learned that day was not to believe 
my brother, who was grounded for the weekend. 
Some may argue that this scenario could be traumatizing to a 
child, but I think the opposite is true. I learned to have respect 
for all nationalities and cultures. After all, my background is 
more or less spin the wheel-choose a culture, so to speak. If I 
were to insult someone for their race or ethnicity, I could be 
ridiculing myself as well. 

I have always taken great pleasure in hearing what other peo­
ple interpret my background to be. A drama. teacher at Boston 
University cast me as a Jewish woman in a play, reasoning "I 
could tell from the moment you walked in-that facial bone 
structure. Jewish." I was an honorary daughter to my friend's 
Polish mother since I resembled her family to a tee. "Fair skin 
like yours is Polish. I know my own kind!" My Irish friend Aine 
swore up and down that she knew someone in Kerry that had 
green eyes just like mine. A friend, as well, noted that since I'm 
so affectionate I must be Dutch. (Since my Dad has never con­
firmed whether or not I am, this is still up to debate.) At times 
like this I just shrug my shoulders and smile politely. Why ruin 
their fun ..... 

In all honesty, I would have liked to know more about myself. 
However, I consider myself my parents' daughter and have 
assumed their nationalities as my own. In this light, I am three 
quarters Irish and one quarter English. Predominantly Michael 
Collins, if you will, with a little Oliver Cromwell thrown in for 
good measure. I have been fortunate to have the opportunity to 
learn as much about my heritage as possible, and cannot 
understand why others would not do the same. 
However, I learned something while studying abroad last 
year. My Irish friends never regarded me as being English or · Irish, but rather just as being an American. "Your family left Ireland during the famine years, a hundred and fifty years ago . 
Let go, you're American now." 

Being American is a trait that most of us on the campuses of 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame share. Although it is paramount 
that one stay loyal to the traditions and beliefs of his or her her­
itage, it is also important to keep in mind that we have some­
thing in common. 


• I 
i I I 
I 
, i 
I 
... 
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 


I 
r I I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I ~ 
~ 
I 
I . 
I 
I 
I I
i ~. 
I 
• 

Blaylock leads Hawks past Clips 
Jackson's triple 
By BETH HARRIS seeond quarter, but had it spraining his ankle in practice Associated Press taped and soon returned. Saturday. He missed the first Los Angeles got within three 14 games of the season with a

double not enough 
LOS ANGELES points on a basket by Pooh strained left thumb .... Laettner Mookie Blaylock seored 34 Richardson late in the third and Mutombo made theAssociated Press LaPhonso Ellis led the Nuggets points and tied a earner-high quarter. But Atlanta used a 12-Eastern Conference All-Starwith 23 points. 
with seven 3-pointers as the 4 spurt to close out the first reserve team announced
SALT LAKE CITY "We just didn't take care of Jeff Hornacek took charge in the ball," said Jackson, who 
Atlanta Hawks defeated the Los half ahead 58-4 7. Tuesday. It's Laettner's first Angeles Clippers 112-96 A 3-pointer by Malik Sealy All-Star team, and Mutombo's
the third quarter and the Utah scored nine points in the· third Jazz took control of the game. to keep the Nuggets within 81­
Tuesday night. cut the Clippers' deficit to sin­fourth after three previous Blaylock hit six 3-pointers in gle digits for the final time at berths on the WesternHornacek hit four 3-pointers 73. "We had four turnovers in the seeond half, equaling a 68-59 with 7:30 remaining in Conference squad.... The
and scored 17 of his 27 points five possessions (in the. third in the third period as the Jazz quarter). When. you're doing 
club reeord shared by Matt the third. Hawks, who opened a six-game Bullard and Dominique Blaylock scored eight points western road trip Tuesday,
rallied for a 114-99 victory that against a good team, it's over the Denver Nuggets on going to hurt." • 
Wilkins. lie fell five short of his in a 19-11 spurt that gavo have won the last five meetings career high of 39 points. Atlanta an 87-70 lead heading against the Clippers.
Tuesday night. • Trailing 58-54 with 9:47 left Christian Laettner added 16 into the fourth quarter. In the Clippers center Stanley Roberts "I guess I got into a zone," in the third quarter, the Jazz points and eight rebounds for third, Blaylock hit four 3-point­was activated Tuesday and
Hornacek, who had five 3-moved to a 73-64 lead with pointers for the game, said. "I 3:30 left in the period. 
the llawks, who have won 12 ers. played 10 minutes in place of missed some layups in that The Nuggets pulled within 
of their last 13. Dikembe Blaylock's final 3-pointer Dwayne Schintzius, who was stretch, though. You can't be 90-87 with 6:30 to play after 
Mutombo had 14 points and pushed Atlanta's advantage to placed on the injured list with nine rebounds. 101-80 with 6:35 remaining in a strained lower baek. Hoberts
in too much of a zone if you three free throws by Dale Ellis can't make a layup. We made and a jumper by LaPhonso 
Darrick Martin led Los the game. had been sidelined since Dec. Angeles with 20 points. He Notes: Clippers guard Brent 10 with a ruptured disc in his
our threes, but defensively, we Ellis. But Malone hit four free · got after it, and created fast throws, Hornacek scored on a 
sprained his right ankle in the Barry missed the game after lower back. breaks and easy baskets." drive, Antoine Carr made a Hornacek hit two 3-pointers free throw and Stockton in the first 49 seconds of the scored on a layup to put the 
Jordan and Pippen boost Chicago
third quarter as the Jazz Jazz up 99-90 and end the began erasing an eight-point threat. 
Associated Press while Vancouver fell to 8-38, bounds for the Grizzlies. Notes:deficit en route to their sev­Ricky Pierce and Dale Ellis including 0-3 since Stu .Jackson .Jordan, an 11-year veteran,
enth win in the last eight each scored 15 for the 
VANCOUVER replaced Brian Winters as the had more NBA experience than games. The Jazz outscored the Nuggets, who led 51-43 at Michael Jordan scored 28 team's coach. the entire Grizzlies startingNuggets 38-22 in the third halftime. 
points and Scottie Pippen added The Bulls broke the game lineup (nine years) .... Chicago'squarter, at one point going on "What sparked us in the 24 as the Chicago Bulls beat the open at the start of the second Hon Harper got his first start ina 19-6 run. third quarter? Jeff, more Jeff Vancouver Grizzlies 111-96 quarter, going nearly 5 l/2 three games since coming offKarl Malone led all scorers and a little more Jeff," Tuesday night in a matchup be­minutes without missing a shot the injured list .Jan. 23.... Lastwith 28 points and John Stockton said. "And then it just tween the NBA's best and worst while building a 49-27 lead. season in Vancouver, JordanStockton added 18 points and caught on. We picked up our teams. Chicago led 65-44 at halftime, scored 19 of the Bulls' final 21nine assists. Bryon Russell had defense and then Jeff hit those Jason Caffey added 19 points and Vancouver never got elosflr points in a eome-from-behind13 points, including two 3-shots." Notes: Last year the for the Bulls, who have won than 14 points in the seeond 94-88 win over the Grizzlies.
pointers in Utah's third-quar­Jazz were 28-14 through 42 four straight and 13 of their half. Chicago has also bPaten theter barrage. games. This year, they are 29­last 14. The Grizzlies have lost Hookie Shanief Abdur-Hahim Grizzlies twiee at the UnitedDenver's Mark Jackson had 13 ... Bryant Stith sat the six straight and 11 of their last had 24 points and 12 rebounds Center, including lasta triple-double with 20 points, bench in street clothes with a 12. for Vancouver. Bryant Heeves November's 96-73 victory. 
12 assists and 10 rebounds. sprained left foot. 
Chicago improved to 3S-5, added 18 points and 12 rq-
The Observer accepts classitleds every bus1ness day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and trom 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 3091 !aggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

Babysitter Wanted. Afternoons. Homes for Rent for 97-98 Must have own car. $5/hour. EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS ADT Security 232-2595 TICKETS Gorgeous Cavanaugh Women
NOTICES 

Katy 277·5207 Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, seeking a plethera of male escorts 
etc. teaching simple conversational Near N.D. Furnished I need one JPW ticket for one or all to their Winter FormaL Please call Spring Break Bahamas Party NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT-English. No languages/teaching 1 Bedroom Apt-$265 of the events. Please call Shannon X 1428 to see if you meet the stan· Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All National Parks hire forestry work-exp. required. in student occupied 3 flat at X1833. Thanks. dards. Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great ers, park rangers, firefighters, life-(919)918·7767, Ext W154. -6 blocks from campus, Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From guards, + volunteer and govern-Heat and water included Will exchange 2 Friday Keenan OH WHERE, OH WHERE, HAS MY Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 ment positions. Excellent benefits + If you're looking for a part-time job 755 South Bend Ave. Revue tickets for 2 Thursday tix. LITTLE DOG GONE. springbreaktravel.com bonus potential. with flexible hours, then consider (corner of St.Peter & S.B. Ave:) Call Ethan, 4-1659, 1-4541. OH WHERE, OH WHERE, CAN HE 
Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext N55841 joining the United States Tobacco deposit, references BE. Florida Spring Break! Panama City! sales and marketing team as a part-1·800-582·9320 Room With Kitchen Near Bars time sales trainee. This is a Looking for 2 girls to share the cost

PERSONAL
$119! Daytona-Best Location $139! EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY-terrific opportunity to gain some BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high of an ocean-front hotel room in Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa MENT ·Travel Eastern Europe by real world experience. Applicants ceilings, etc. ONLY $210 PER Cancun over Spring Break. Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav-teaching basic conversational must be self-starters with a valid MONTH! near campus -female Spring Break Bahamas Party Call Jessica (x4655) for details el.com English in Prague, Budapest, or drivers license, car, and insurance. non-smoker· move in ASAP. Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All ASAP, 1-800-678-6386 Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Please only those 21 years of age call Julie @ 288 7284 Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great 
Board + other potential benefits. or older may apply. To find out Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From 
Find out how to succeed in this more about this great opportunity, NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 I am sorely dissappointed with the SPRING BREAK field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext contact our Consumer Marketing SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO springbreaktravel.com content of the personals lately! Are PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA K55844 Representative at 1-800-934-4878 IDEAL FOR 3·8 STUDENTS you guys dead or what?
......................

SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH box 6501 #. We are an equal 2773097 RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR opportunity employer. Class of '98 Do you like films about gladiators? POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT-POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM Come Play Laser Tag At Laser TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Earn up FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Storm On State RD. 23 You got a heart so big TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE Caribbean) & earn an excellent to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, 2773097 Thurs. Feb. 6 8·1 0 it could crush this town BIGGEST PARTY. income in the Cruise & Land-Tour parks, resorts. Airfare! FREE but I can hold out forever
.......................

FREE INFO 1-800-488·8828 Industry. For details, call 1-206-Food/Lodging! Get all the options. even walls fall down 

FOR SALE 

WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 971·3550 ext.C55845 Call 
(919)918-7767, ext.A154. Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Have you ever seen a grown man BEST HOTELS & LOWEST Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi-Room With Kitchen Near Bars naked? PRICES for SPRING-BREAK ALASKA EMPLOYMENT · Fishing VOLUNTEERS NEEDED urn mattress set Never used still in $119! Daytona·Best Location $139! BEACH destinations. Florida, Industry. Many earn up to The Early Childhood Devlopment package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. Florida's New Hotspot·Cocoa I want an Elk burger next Sunday, Cancun, Jamaica, etc. CALL NOW $4,000+/mo. during peak season. Center with programs at Saint (219) 674-2352 Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav· Tad. for rooms or SIGN-UP as INTER-Benefits often include Mary's College and the University el.com Won't you be my neighbor? CAMPUS REPR. 800-327-6013 Transportation of Notre Dame is looking for volun-WOODBRIDGE 1·BEDROOM 1-800-678-6386 http://www. icpt.com and/or Room & Board. For details: teers who enjoy young children. If CONDO W·CARPORT $54,900 LAME DUCK LAME DUCK 
(206)971-3510 ext A55849 you would be interested in spending TA'MARA 273-5166 Simon Says ... "See Sgt. Tim 2 hours a week reading childrens' McCarthy at LNO-1/31/97." Have you ever been in a Turkish A few good people needed. Camp books, building with blocks and BEUSCHER ARISTOCRAT prison?
ILOST & FO~ND I 

Birchwood, a small Minnesota chi!-singing songs with children, please TENOR SAX AND CASE$600/ ########################### 
dren's camp, seeks applicants with call Cindy Hestad 284-4693 (SMC) BEST OFFER. 289-1347· ERIK There will be a Support Group We are always shopping HELP!! qualifications to teach land sports, or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 meeting TOMORROW at 7:30 for Lost my class ring between waterskiing, windsurfing, sailing or (NO). Please join our fun filled days. '92 HONDA ACCORD LX. all LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL and Happy 20th birthday toT. J. Wolfe Sarin, SOH, and 06. Great horseback riding. Lifeguards, and BEAUTIFUL $8,500 OR B/0. QUESTIONING students, faculty, One year away from the big kids sentimental value. If found, wilderness trip leaders also needed. Driver: To transport child every 233·5537. and staff. For the location of the bars! I please call John at X2213 or For an application and additional Tuesday at 3:40 pm. Female meeting or other information, call drop by 319. information call 1-800-451-5270. preferred. Call 631-8298 (day) or USED MAGS AND PRINTER the Q-UNE at 236-9661. Happy Anniversery Maureen & $$REWARD$$ 277-1859 (evenings) or email: FOR SALE ########################### John 
CHILDCARE WANTED for our two bennett@ nd.edu. Laserwriter Plus printer $150. Mac LOST: Blue winter coat at sons, ages 7 and 9, after school Plus system: HD, software, key-FREE COFFEE!! Cafe Au Lait at Happy double-duece Ponch Jazzmans on Saturday night in our home three days a week. I need Keenan Revue Tickets!! board, and mouse $150. 7:30 pm tonight at Cushing. $2 and If you accidentally took the wrong $6.50/hr Transportation and I am a Senior, and refuse to miss Mac SE system: HD, software, Free Coffee! I expect dinner every other week coat please call. Todd X 1569 references requred. Call 1-8301 my last Revue! Call Kate at 288· keyboard, and mouse $175. Great 
daytime and 277-4422 evenings. 9278 systems for word processing! Used JAZZERCISE Spicoli needs to improve his 
LOST DOG Mac hardware also for sale: key-Very close to campus attitude Volunteers needed to help autistic boards, mice, external floppy dri· 277-0111

FOR RENT
Pembroke Welsh Corgi DUSTIN children at local school learn play ves. Arts and Letters Computing The new program wont even last a near NO Ave. Small, Tan and skills at recess, 10-11 and 12-1 , M-Office. 216 O'Shag. x17021 NO SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS day White, Pink and Purple Collar. F; other times possible to assist in 4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys· $10.00 REWARD Call Pete at 287-4876. classroom. Training provided. tern, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime 94 2 dr Jeep Cherokee Sport air CALL MIKE at 288-0116 Tenille-Stay strong. It'll be fun B. 
Close to NO, but car needed. Call location, 109 N. St. Peter cruise 2 yr. ext warranty. Must sell, 288-7026 for info. 233-9947 returning to school. Good condition, I AM A LAME DUCK!!!!! C· It's okay, everyone has to fight

WANTED 

$12.500/or best offer. 233-1020 Quack Quack every once in a while 

ww .W' 
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 

Pistons continue winning ways 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

Grant Hill showed why he's an All-Star for the third straight time. 
Hill scored 22 points Tuesday night and guided the Detroit Pistons to a 93-84 victory over the Milwaukee Bucks. 
"They've got Grant at a point in the game when they are ahead to control the game, to keep the lead and keep their momentum," Bucks forward Yin Baker said. "Detroit is a smart team." 
The Pistons, who took the lead early in the first quarter, were never ahead by more than eight points until late in the game. 
The Bucks drew close when two free throws and a layup by Baker made it 64-63 with 3:32 left in the third. 
Hill, who was named to the Eastern Conference All-Star team on Sunday for the third straight year, wouldn't let the Bucks any closer. 
Andrew Lang was called for goaltending on a 12-foot jumper by Hill on Detroit's next posses­sion. And the Pistons rebuilt a lead that never slipped below three points the rest of the way. 
"Grant Hill's ability to do ev­erything killed us the entire game," Bucks coach Chris Ford said. "This, plus the fact they have Joe Dumars to run point makes it a tough combination." 
The Pistons made the Bucks their 22nd consecutive opponent to be held under 100 points. The Houston Rockets are the only team to score 100 points against Detroit this season, doing on Dec. 12, 1996, in a 115-96 victo­ry. 
Collins said that the Pistons' game plan against the Bucks was simply run to perfection. 
"I think that might be as well as we executed both ends of the floor in a long, long time," he said. "Our defense was good and our offensive execution was really good." 
Hill scored on a dunk to give the Pistons their biggest lead of the game at 88-77 with 2:43left. 
.Johnny Newman converted a three-point play for the Bucks, but then Terry Mills hit his fourth 3-pointer, a 27-foot shot, to give Detroit a 91-80 cushion with 1:08 left to play. 
"Terry Mills got away from us a couple of times tonight," said Baker, named to the Eastern Conference All-Star team Tuesday. "Leaving him alone for just one second can really hurt." 
Baker finished with 18 points and nine rebounds and Elliott Perry added 16 for the Bucks. Lindsey Hunter had 17 points and Dumars had eight assists for Detroit. 
Notes: Sherman Douglas twist­ed his left ankle when he was knocked down battling for posi­tion under the Bucks' basket late in the first quarter. He returned to start the second half. 
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 
Present 

BRITANNICA ONLINE 
(On trial until February 12) 
Finding information has never been so easy as when you use the Libraries' newest reference resource. The Britannica Online provides you with immediate access to thousands of articles, online graphics and other forms of multimedia through its intuitive search windows. The Britannica is available to faculty, students and staff through the Libraries' homepage. 
The URL is: 
http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndlibs 
E-mail your comments to: 

richter.8@nd.edu 
THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS THE 8TH ANNUAl 
NOTRE DAME 






STUDENT FES 
she' 
SNnE TO' THE ND/SMC COMMUNITY 
7:30& 
THANK YOU!!!.. WE'LL SEE YOU 
FRIDAY & 
SATURDAY NEXT JANUARY! 

Richmond rallies Kings, over Wolves 
BYRON LES~~::wi:t:: . 
:Assodaced Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Mitch Richmond celebrated his fifth consecutive All-Star selection with 2$ points and nine assists and the SaFramento I{,ings rallied from a 12-point deficit in the fourth quarter to beat the Minnesota Timherwolves 91­88 on Tuesday night. 
Olden Potyni~e had 16 points and nine rebounds and Kevin Gamble ciall1e off the b~n,cht.t} · points, lrtvl~ding , .ht to ·call a ~~Y ·11·. .... in the fourth (J11a .. . e. Kings held Minnesota eless over the final 3:08 .t() win for the third time in four games. 
Minnesota got25 points and eight rebound rom Tom Gugliotta, who selected 
to hls first A ......··· r gq,ln.er
Terry Porter, star~ing in place of injured rookie. Stephan MarbJ.Iry, had 14 points and 10 assists. 
The Wolves led by as many as 13 in the third quarter and 74-62 heading into the final period. But the Kings opened with a 10·4 run, and later used an 11·2 streak to take an 89-88 lead on a 3-pointer by Gamble with 2:10 remain­ing. 
The score was the same when Doug West's steal gave the Wolves a chance to take the lead with under 20 sec­()nds remaining. ,But Gugliotta. put up a wild shot from left of the lane and Richmond was fculed on the rebound. He · made both free throws to put the Kings u:p 91-88 with 15.8 . secon4s left. 

Gugliotta missed a 3-pointer with four seconds remaining, and James Robinson missed a long 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
The win was just the third in 10 road games for Sacramento, and dropped Minnesota's home record to 13-7. It also moved the Kings within a half-game of the Wolves for the sixth playoff spot in the Western Conference. 
. th~K~n~s.led 46~45 <wh~n J~. er scored off ..bo > . th 1:43 leftirt first half.. But that wq,s 
:sacramento's last basket until 
Richmond hit a 3-pointer 1:44 
into the .third quarter. 
Minnesota closed the first half on a 9-0 run, capped by Gugliott~'s rainbow 3-pointer from.. th(( top of the key with 
2.9 seconds left for a l!J4c:46 lead.• The Wolves pushed the lead to 13 with the first five points of the third quarter, capped by Gugliotta's base­line jumper for a 59-46 advantage. 
Notes: Wolves long-range specialist Shane Heal is 18­for-51 from 3-point range this season, but just 4-for-24 from inside the arc.... The Wolves blocked 10 shots, the eighth time this season they have reached double figures in that category. Their 7.2 average·is second-best in the league.... The Kings won for just the sev(;J1th time in 29 gam(ls when· scoring fewer than 100 points~ ... The Kings are 3-0 against the Wolves this sea­son. 

I 
-I I 
I 
I 
I 
----~--------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 29, 1997 
•NBA 

Rice hits game Coleman returns from absence 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI missed game at $83,000, the Coleman would come back Associated Press equivalent of one game's pay Wednesday night when the

winning foul shots 
for Coleman, who is making 76ers host the Toronto 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Glen Rice made a pair of foul shots with four seconds left Tuesday night, sealing the Charlotte Hornets' 98-97 win over the Indianapolis Pacers. 
The Hornets led 96-94 when Indiana reserve Jerome Allen missed a layup. Rice re­bounded, was fouled and made the free throws, enough to off­set a 3-pointer by Eddie Johnson of the Pacers just be­fore the buzzer. 
Rice finished with 30 points. The Hornets, playing without starters Anthony Mason and Muggsy Bogues, got 14 points and 11 rebounds from Vlade Divac. 
Reggie Miller scored 26 points and reserve Antonio Davis had 18 for Indiana. The Pacers have lost three in a row, all at home. 
The· Hornets led 94-92 with 24 seconds left when Divac was fouled. He made one of two free throws, then Johnson had a basket for the Pacers. 

Charlotte's Tony Smith was fouled with 13 seconds left and also made one of two free throws. 
Charlotte, which started George Zidek, Rafael Addison and Smith, got off to slow start, missing its first seven shots. 
Indiana took an early nine­point lead, but Charlotte ral­lied for a 51-50 edge at half­time. The Hornets picked up where they left off in the third quarter, starting the period with a 14-5 run for a 10-point lead. 
Notes: The Pacers were missing injured point guard Travis Best. ... Indiana was swept at home by Charlotte this season. The Pacers lost the first meeting 90-87 on Nov. 21. 
Courtesy of the Indiana Pacers 

Reggie Miller posts 26 points in the Pacer loss to the Hornets. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SournBEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
English Classes for Speakers 
ofOther Languages 
English for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Improve your conversation and understanding of written and spoken English. Mondays, Feb. 10-April28, 7-9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
Pronunciation and Speech Improvement for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Ideal for MBA students 

Specially designed to improve your business presentations. Wednesdays, Feb. 12-April30, 7·9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
To register, or for more information, call IUSB Continuing Education, 237-4261 
PHILADELPHIA 
Derrick Coleman returned to the Philadelphia 76ers Tuesday, but he wasn't eager to talk about his unexcused ab­sence from the team over the weekend in his hometown of Detroit. 
"I feel like O.J.," Coleman said as he was surrounded by reporters following the 76ers' practice. "! want to thank ev­erybody for being concerned about my welfare." 
Before brushing past the me­dia, Coleman quiekly explained why he wasn't at the team's practice Monday. 
"I missed practice yesterday because I was snowed in in the city of Detroit," he said. "I know !"II be fined, and that's all I have to say." 
General manager Brad Greenberg refused to divulge exactly what Coleman would be lined for missing the team's game Saturday against the Pistons and the Monday prac­tice. 
But team sources put the fine for the missed practice at $1,000 and the fine for the 

The New Race Politics: Not ·ust BLACK and WHITE 
A humorous social and political commentary with special emphasis on race and Asian Pacific Americans. 
Presented by: 
E·m.il ~illermo 
Distinguished author and columnist 
Sponsor·ed b~· The F1liprno Amencan Studt!rll Orgamzatron Co-sponsored h)' J"he Mar11n Luther Kmg Jr llohdii\ Ccld)l illl\111 Planning C'ommllll!l'. 1\frican ,\mcncan Student ·\lhaiKL' \111Jl~'''' lntcrnauonal. Campus ~11111SII"\. c~ntcr j(,, (,j!ICial ("ull(L'!Il\ (IIIILl' t•l \lu!!u.:ulluraJ "irudcll! ·\Jlir!J\. ~I!Jdl'nt AJfaJJ'>. ;uul Sttrd...·nt Cnnl.'tllllh.'nl 
$6.8 million this season. 
Greenberg, who was angry when Coleman didn't make the Monday practice, said Coleman told him he called a member of the team's training staff to let him know about his inability to fly out of Detroit because of the weather. 
"lie said he tried to call, but we didn't get any of the mes­sages," Greenberg said, adding that Coleman explained his absence from the Pistons game by saying he didn't think he had to attend because he was injured and unavailable to play. 
But team rules specifically state that any time an injured player travels with the team, he must attend the team's games. 
Coleman caught his left pinky on the rim while trying to block a shot Jan. 8, sustain­ing a 10-stitch cut that has kept him out of nine games. 
Coleman walked away before he could be asked questions about when he would return to the lineup, but Greenberg said Raptors. He was activated late Tuesday. 


"After watching him prac­tice, I think he's ready to be activated," Greenberg said. "We're glad that he'll be ready to suit up tomorrow." 
The unexcused absence con­jured up memories of Coleman's troubled past with the New Jersey Nets. 
Drafted first overall by the Nets in 1990, Coleman won Rookie of the Year honors but quickly got a bad reputation after cutting practices, ignorn­ing the team's dress code and generally behaving bad enough to be the cover boy for a national magazine's story on petulant athletes. 
The Nets traded him to Philadelphia last year in a deal that sent Shawn Bradley to New Jersey. 
But, with the exception of a missed practice in December that he said was due to being stuck in traffic, Coleman has impressed the 76crs with his work habits, intelligent play and good behavior. 




MINORITIES IN ACADEMIA 
A Presentation by 



Dr. Arnold L. Mitchem 
Executive Director, N.C.E.O.A. Washington, D.C. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 1997 6:30PM 
118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 
SPONSORED BY THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM 

page 17

The Observer • SPORTS 
• COllEGE BASKETBALl 
-

Wheat leads Cards. over Demons 
By MIKE EMBRY their shots. Nate Johnson DePaul fell behind 23-17 on Associated Press scored on a rebound basket, Wheat's two free throws at and following a DePaul 5:30, but went on a 6-2 spurt

point after SQUb 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. turnover, hit two free throws to and trailed 25-23 on Gelatt's De.Juan Wheat scored seven give Louisville a 14-10 lead two free throws three minutesBy DAVID GINSBURG and· Muresari hit a ho6k irt the 
of his 20 points during an 11-0 with 12:36 remaining in the later. Louisville then went on its 
Associated Press lane. Webber left after pjcking 
run that propelled No. 9 half. 11-0 run to take control. 
up his fourth foul with 7:3lleft Louisville to a 71-54 victoryLANDOVER, Md. in. the quarter, but the Bullets over DePaul on Tuesday night. 
Chris Webber responded to ifl:lmediately went on.art +&.-7 
run to go tip 75-60~ .../'f' .. DePaul turned the ball over ahis All-Star. snub with 17 
points and 14 rebounds as the Muresan and Howard each Louisville (17 -2, 4-1 ConferenceWashington Bullets snapped scored six points in the· surge USA) turned them into 25Orlal).do's four-game winning and Tracy Murray added four. 
points.

streak with a 102-82 victory Orlando closed to 83-69 Nate Johnson made two free
Tuesday night. early in the fourth quarter, but throws to start the spurt andJuwan Howard had 26 points baskets by Chris Whitney and give Louisville a 27-23 leadand 10 rebounds for the Murray sparked an 8-2 burst with 39 seconds remaining inBullets and Gheorghe Muresan that gave the Bullets a 91-71 the first half. DePaul thenadded 12 points and 14 lel:ld with 7:20 to go. 
turned the ball over while try­rebounds. Washingt6n broke Murray finished with 18 ing to hold for the last shot and open a close game in the third points, two short of his season 
Wheat responded with a 3­
quarter and cruised to only its high. Webber had 11 points pointer before the horn for athird win in nine games. and 10 rebounds by halftime, 
seven-point lead. Wheat
Although he ranked 19th in and the Bullets scored 30 sec­opened the second half with athe NBA in scoring, 13th in re­ond-quarter points on 14-for­
bounding and lOth in blocks, 22 shooting for a 4 7-44 lead. driving layup down the left side and Alex Sanders followed with
Webber was not among there­Howard scored half his 12 a fast-break dunk off another·serves named to the Eastern first-half points in a 14-5 run 
DePaul turnover. After a
Conference All-Sfar squad ear­that put the Bullets up 38-31, DePaul miss, Wheat capped thelier in the day. He took out his and Washington upped the run with an 18-footer for a 36­frustration on Orlando, hitting margin to 10 points before the 23 lead with 18:40 remaining. 
half his 14 shots in addition to Magic closed the half with a 9­DePaul (3-15, 1-6), which hasregistering five assists. 2 spree. 
lost five straight games, got noAnfernee Hardaway scored Orlando forward Horace closer than 40-30 on Jerome22 and Rony Seikaly 21 for the Grant was floored for several 
Taylor's 3-pointer from the
Magic, who had won seven of minutes after being elbowed right corner with 16:46 to go.
eight. Orlando was looking to under the right eye by the 7­Louisville's biggest lead wasmove over the .500 mark for foot-7 Muresan late in the first 66-43 on Jerry Johnson's re­the first time since Dec. 10. half. Grant bruised his cheek bound basket at 2:33.
The Bullets pulled away in bone and did not return. 
Nate Johnson had 17 pointsthe third period, outscoring Notes: Despite the loss, 
and nine rebounds for
Orlando 32-20 to turn a three­Orlando is 16-5 against Louisville, which shot 44 per­point halftime lead into a se­Washington since the start of cent (24-of-55) from the field. 
cure 15-point advantage. the 1992-93 season.... Bullets I
Senior forward Charles Gelatt 
Howard scored 10 points in forward Lorenzo Williams did l 
finished with 24 points and 16the period, going 4-for-5 and not suit up because of tendini­rebounds, both career-highs,
sinking both his free throws. tis in his left knee and will ' l
and Taylor had 18 points forIt was 53-all before Rod miss the upcoming road trip to DePaul. The Blue DemonsStrickland sank a short jumper receive treatment. 
made 39 percent (22-of-56) of 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 1997 BLACK CATHOLIC SERIES WITH OUR EYES WATCHING GOD ... WE SPEAK!  Tonight 7:30p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge "Rocks, Balms, Chariots and Suffering: Articulating an African ·American Ecclesiology" Dr. Greer G. Gordon Department of Religious Studies Regis College, Weston, Massachusetts SPONSORED BY CAMPUS MINISTRY (N'vfUSMNISTRY  

• 
-CLUB 
..._.CONNECTION...._. 



Club encompasses all levels 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
By BETSY BAKER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It's not often in this day and age that an athletic team at any level does not get caught up in issues of competition, money, or fame. 
When was the last time, out­side of grade school. that you saw a team out on the field or floor playing for the sheer love of playing? 
Yes, it is a quite a challenge these days for an athlete to com­pete and still maintain the love of the sport. 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Gymnastics Club has mastered this skill not only through one or two athletes, but as a whole team. 
The club consists of between twenty and thirty gymnasts of all levels of skill and experience. The one thing that they do have in common is that they are out there to have a good time. 
"Our main function is to sup­port one another and have fun," Claire Burke, one of the five offi­cers of the club said. 
Club president, Elizabeth Leahey, gave the official objec­tive of the club as," we are for all levels of gymnastics, primari­ly to get a good work out and have fun." 
Of course, for many of the gymnasts, competition is very much a part of their reasons. 
"We are a competitive team," Officer Molly Russell stressed. "We do have a great time out here, but we want people to know that we do exist and we do compete." 
Still. for others, like officer Bob Exconde, participating in the club serves another pur­pose. 
"lt teaches me good party tricks," Exconde commented. Many of the members partic­ipate in the club because it is a 

great way to stay in shape, while others are looking to improve their skills in order to try out for cheerleading. 
Regardless of the reason, one thing is for sure -they have fun. 
The levels of experience truly do vary· as can be witnessed in any of their daily practices. From forward rolls to back tucks, gymnasts of all levels take the floor. 
For Claire Burke, it is a family affair. With very little experi­ence, her brother Paul, a junior cheerleader for the Irish, was her main incentive for joining the team. Whether biological or figurative, the word family is also a major focus for the team. 
Part of being on "club" status means that they do not have an official coach, instead, an advi­sor. Advisor Irene Patterson cites as the main reason she was chosen for the job the fact that she has an interest in the sport, but more importantly, that she could be there to super­vise each practice. Therefore, much of what keeps the club successful is the support system they have developed. The more experienced members of the club consistently help those with little experience who want to learn a new skill. 
"The team is very supportive," Claire Burke said. "If there is something you want to learn, they're behind you all the way." 
Still, there are some members of the team who have quite a bit of experience and boast consid­erable national prowess. Junior Bryce Emo placed fourth in last year's National Association of Intercollegiate Gymnastics Clubs Nationals, while sophomore Chris Sandner won the Clover Classic, the tournament hosted by the ND/SMC Gymnastics Club, which includes teams such as Texas A&M, Miami of Ohio, 
....W. 1997 ND/SMC 
..GYMNASTIC CLUB SCHEDULE 


FEBRUARY 1 -at Miami of Ohio FEBRUARY 8 -at Purdue FEBRUARY 15 -at University of Illinois FEBRUARY 22 -at Indiana University 
I 
MARCH 1 -CLOVER CLASSIC 
! 
at ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
I 
APRIL 4-5 -NAIGC Nationals
I -· 

at Texas A&M
I I 
Purdue, Indiana, Illinois, and Virginia. 
The team does divide itself into men and women according to the respective events, and the focus of each gender docs seem to vary. For many of the women, it is a continuance of many years of Gymnastics expe­rience and the maintenance of their skill. However, for the men, it is often a new experi­ence that goes along with the realization of the strength required to participate in such events as rings, pommel horse, or parallel bars. 
"There is a lot of diversity in gymnastics, in general," Paul Burke said. "For the guys, it's usually more intense training and learning of new skills. For many of the girls, it is something they've done since before they could walk." 
"But in general, everybody sticks with it no matter of what ability level," he continued. 
The club is open to all Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross students. No nxpcrience is required, only an interest in the sport and the desire and dedication to be part of a team. The season is divided into two parts: the fall, in which the club trains, and the spring, in which it competes. The club always practices Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, from 4-(, p.m., and often every day during weeks before competition, at Ange1a Athletic Facility on the St. Mary's campus. 
The Club Connection will be a weekly feature highlighting some of the clubs from around the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. Ifyou have any com­ments or suggestions for future articles, please call the Observer Sports Desk at 631-4543 or e­mail Betsy Baker at Elizabeth.A.Baker.31@nd. edu. 
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

The Gymnastics Club adopts a policy of 'No Fear.' 

MARRIOTT 
Wtmt to getyourfoot in the door with a major corporation? 
MARRIOTT Educational Services at Saint Mary's College is recruiting people to fill various part-time positions, including student management. 
Hours are flexible between Gam and IOpm, 7 days a week. Contact Mr. Jamie Wright, Food Service Manager, at 284-5542 . 
Become part ofa tradition! 



Join Saint Mary's Student Activities 
Board! 

S.A.B. is looking for enthusiastic, 
creative women to assist in planning SMC Tostal '97. 
Positions available: SMC Tostal co-chair * Entertainment/Music chair * Game chair * Food chair * Publicity chair 


Sign-up at Haggar front desk by Tuesday, Feb. 7th 
Any questions? Contact Jen Ligda at 284-5189 or Lori McKeough at 284-4395 

Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
•NBA 




Nets were everything but net 
Knicks barely squeak by Celtics 
... 

Please join with student in your brother/sister halls 
exploring friendships and dating on campus and how men and women communicate. 
D 

Campuswide groupings 

February 2 and 3, 7 p. 
{boldface 

Alumni/Breen-Phillips Siegfried/Keoug h Badin/Carroll Morrissey/Lyons F.isher/Pangborn St. Edward's/Knott PW/Fianner Farley/Zahm PE 
Howard/Dillon,Ca::v:a~n~a~u~~~~~:~ ~i=il~[:~=~ 

THURSDAY: 

DJ Dance Party 
new mix of everything­retro, 70s, 80s. industrial, techno, alternative, dance, & high-energy rock 
Always open 'til 3AM M-F open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 
Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in, our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The Diamond Au.thori~ 
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 
South Bend, Indiana 46601 






Legendary rivalry ',co&tinues tonight 
against ;!"Jorth Carolina's size; The Blu~ Devils have Jl play­
. ers avetl'l,gi,ng 13.or m(}re min~ ptes a ga:me, while the Tar Heels counter with 7 -foot-3 SergeZwikkerat center and 6· 9Jamison apd 6-9Ademola Okulaja. attheJorwards, 
"My bigg()St concern going against North Carolina is the fact that they are so big," said Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski. 'W t a big team. We quickness and I tan shoot it pretty probably • the team in our 
you "'""'"'....'",
but tJ:s~JtJ\/.tttu._v 

~ 
I I I 
1 
l ~ 
1 
By TOM CANAVAN 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
The New Jersey Nets had their worst scoring night in their 30~year NBA history, dropping an 84-62 decision to the Cleveland Cavaliers on Tuesday night. 
Terrell Brandon celebrated his seconci straight All-Star se­lection with 18 points, but it was the NBA's besf defense which stole the spotlight, limit­ing New Jersey to 10 points in the first quarter and 11 in the final. 
Kendall Gill had 19 points for New Jersey, whose previous low in a game was 68 points against Utah in 1989. 
Thf) 62 points allowed were 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Chris Childs made a 3-pointer with 8.4 seconds left for his only basket of the game and the New York Knicks survived a no-quit effort from the Celtics to beat Boston for the 18th straight time, 109-107 Tuesday night. 
Allan Houston scored 25 
points, Charles Oakley had a 
season-high 20, Patrick Ewing 
had 18 and John Starks 17 for 
the Knicks, who shot a season­
high 58.4 percent but still had to 
fight in the final seconds for 
their third victory over Boston 
this month. 
Rookie Antoine Walker scored 27 points and had a season-high 16 rebounds as he held his own ·against Ewing despite 'playing out of position at center. Walker had a chance to tie the game with two seconds left, but his driving left-handed layup 
the second fewest allowed by Cleveland this season. The Cavs, who are giving up a league-low 86 points per game, limited Orlando to 57 on Dec. 4 in an 84-57 win. 
The Nets also had a fran­chise-low 21 field goals in the game, and their 30 percent shooting from the field (21 of 
70) was a season low. 
Trailing 43-30 at halftime, the Nets rallied in the third quarter and pulled within 57­51 on a free throw by Shawn Bradley with 1:54 left in the quarter. 
However, Chris Mills hit a baseline jumper and put in a rebound to push the lead to 61­51, and Brandon ignited an eight-point run to start the final quarter by hitting a 3-pointer. 
bounced out. 
Oakley, an 81 percent free throw shooter, was fouled on the rebound but missed both shots. That gave the Celtics one more chance, but Todd Day's 3­point attempt at the buzzer bounced off the backboard and missed. 
The Knicks won their 15th straight home game and kept the Celtics from winning on the road for only the second time this season. 
Ewing, who scored 31 and 30 points against the Celtics in their back-to-back games earlier in January, shot 8-of-13 this time and had a season-high nine assists. 
His last assist was the most important, a crosscourt pass out of a double-team to Childs on the left wing. Childs, who had been 0-for-4 up to that point, made the 3-pointer. 
Boston had gone ahead for the first time since the second quar-
The Nets went with a field goal for more than a 10-minute stretch spanning the third and fourth quarters. 
Bobby Phills added 16 points for Cleveland and Bob Sura had 
15. Notes: Nets starting point guard Robert Pack missed his fourth straight game with a sprained left ankle ... His re­placement, Khalid Reeves, had eight points and four assists.... The Cavaliers have won 32 of their last 43 vs. New Jersey, in­cluding all three this year ... Tyrone Hill had 10 points and 12 rebounds for Cleveland. Jayson Williams, the NBA's sec­ond-leading rebounder, was disappointed not being named to the All-Star team. He had eight points and 12 rebounds, but was 3-of-16 from the field. 
ter on a pair of foul shots by Walker with 21.4 seconds left to complete an 11-2 run. The Knicks had two turnovers and missed two of four free throws during Boston's run. 
The Celtics have lost six in a row. 
Notes: Dee Brown hyperex­tended his right big toe at the end of the third quarter. He was taken to a hospital for X-rays, and his prognosis was not immediately known .... The Knicks improved to 10-0 when shooting better than 50 percent ... New York hasn't lost to Boston since Jan. 10, 1993. The 18-game winning streak over the Celtics is the largest ever against Boston in the team's 50­year history.... Celtics coach )'vi.L, .Carr s,pent a lot of time. . trading verbal shots with fans behind Boston's bench .... Super Bowl MVP Desmond Howard of the Green Bay Packers was in attendance at courtside. 

-
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 29, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Deacons bomb from long range 
By DAVID DROSCHAK hit a 3-pointer. The Hokies Associated Press never got closer than the final score the rest of the way 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. against Wake Forest's subs. 
Jerry Braswell broke out of a Fourteen of Wake Forest's horrible shooting slump with first 18 shots were from be­his first double-digit scoring yond the arc. During one first­game in more than three half stretch, reserve Steven weeks as No. 2 Wake Forest Goolsby took six straight 3­concentrated on its outside pointers as the Demon Deacons game in a 61-44 victory over fired 16 long-range shots in the Virginia Tech on Tuesday opening half. night. Duncan's first shot was a 
Braswell, 11-for-40 from the fastbreak layup with 4:s0 left field over his last six games, hit in the first half and he finished three 3-pointers and scored 13 the opening 20 minutes with a 
points as the Demon Deacons season-low four points and two (16-1) held their 17th straight rebounds. opponent under 39 percent Duncan's shot in the lane 
shooting. 1:09 after his first basket gave 
The Hokies (1 0-9) were held Wake Forest a 30-12 lead-its to a season-low point total. largest of the first half, in Virginia Tech star Ace Custis, which only three fouls were guarded by Tim Duncan most called. 
of the game, finished with nine points -his second-lowest total of the season. 
Braswell's last double-digit game was a season-high 17 points Jan. 4 against No. 19 North Carolina. Since then, he had scored only 36 points. 
The only suspense in the game's final 12 minute.s was whether Duncan would get his 26th straight double-double af­ter taking only two first-half shots. He got his lOth rebound with 4:58 left and finished with a season-low 12 points as the Demon Deacons worked mostly on their outside game after going 16-for-65 in their last four games from long range. 
Wake Forest extended its 14­point halftime lead to 23 in the first 4 1/2 minutes of the sec­ond half with an 11-2 run. Freshman Loren Woods, in his third start alongside Duncan on the frontline, had four points during the spurt and Braswell 
Men•s College Basketball AP Top 10 
Kansas  20-0  
2  Wake Forest  15-1  
3  Kentucky  18-2  
4  Utah  13-2  
5  Maryland  17-2  
6  Minnesota  18-2  
7  Clemson  16-3  
8  Cincinnati  14-3  
9  Louisville  16-2  
10 Arizona  12-4  






rsprrngnreak-97,
1
I $7sCouPon Cancun. Mexico
I Complete Packages From $399 1 
I 
RT airfare, 7 Nights Hotel, Free Covers & Parties Plus 
I 
Discounts on Side Trips and Excursions. Some Restrictions apply. 
Prices for March 8th Chicago Departures only call now!!! 
Sunbreak Student Vacations 
lowest

I for info calll-800-446-8355 Price I 
._. ______ _ ___ _.
I Http://www.uresource.com/sunbreak guaranteed!!! I
-

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Information Meetings: Wednesday, January 29-4:00-5:00 ru: 7:00-8:00 at the Center for Social Concerns 
.,. Servite 
.,. Simple Lifestyle 
.,. Spirituality 

.,. Community Living 
Placements in: 

+ 
Phoenix, AZ 

+ 
Hayward (Bay Area), CA 

+ 
Colorado Springs, CO 

+ 
Broekton (Boston area), MA 

+ 
Portland, OR 


+ Wilkes~Barre, PA 
+ Chile, South America 
PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 631-5521 FAX: 631-6813 E-mail: ND.HCASSOC.1@ND.EDU 
AmeriCorps Education Award scholarships available for Domestic Participants See us on the Web-http://www.nd.edu:SO/-hcassoc/ 
Muskies dominate once again 
By JOE KAY ence's two division leaders Associated Press settled into a pattern in the first half-Xavier would go CINCINNATI on a run and get up by nine, 
Gary Lumpkin scored 24 Rhode Island would creep points and Torraye Braggs back, and Xavier would use scored nine of his 20 points in another run to pull ahead a late run that carried No. 20 again. Xavier to a 91-79 victory over Xavier opend the game with Rhode Island on Tuesday an 8-1 spurt and soon led by night. nine points. Rhode Island cut 
Xavier (14-3, 5-2 Atlantic it to one before Lumpkin hit 
10) broke out of a long-range two 3-pointers in another shooting slump by going 9-of-spurt that pushed it back to 
16. from behind the 3-point nine, 28-19, with 3:56left. arc. The Musketeers were only The Rams took advantage of 12-of-49 over their last three poor free-throw shooting by games. Xavier -just 2-for-6 over the 
Braggs scored nine consecu­final 1:48 -to make their tive points in a late spurt that best run of the game. Murphy undercut one final run by had a steal and layup and a 3­Rhode Island (12-6, 6-2). The pointer in a 14-3 spurt that Rams spent most of the game put Rhode Island up 33-31, its trying to catch up and had first lead of the game. only two brief, two-point A free throw and Lenny leads. Brown's layup in the final 35 
Preston Murphy led Rhode seconds put Xavier ahead 34­Island with 20 points. 33 at halftime. The matchup of the confer-Rhode Island had one big 
Please Recycle The Observer 
CONSULTANTS & CHANGE AGENTS 
• TEACHING ENGLISH TO SPEAKERS OF OTHER LANGUAGES. 

Detail from Robert F. Gallls' pairrtif'!g, Batltetf. l8fi2. oil 011 cstwas, 50' ....•. Gift front Sarita Gate8. Wetijns Collection. 4merican UnMilii:fW 
For a Summer Bulletin and registration form call 202-885-2500, fax 202-885-2542, or e-mail: summRY@american.edu for more information. 
an eeo/aftirmative action university ···'"Sir" ···""ttl' 
advant<).ge -7-foot center Michael Andersen was four inches taller than any Musketeer on the court. The Rams lobbed the ball into Andersen at the start of the second half, and he scored two baskets that put Rhode Island ahead for the last time, 39-37. 
Xavier took control with an 18-10 surge highlighted by long-range shooting. Lumpkin hit two 3s and Brown added a 3-pointer as the Musketeers moved ahead 65-54 with 8:42 left. 
There was plenty of time for one more catch-up run, but foul problems undercut the Rams' last rally. Andersen went to the bench with his fourth foul with 7:14 left, and Rhode Island never got closer than four points. 
Exploiting the big center's absence, Braggs scored nine consecutive points -five on free throws -as Xav~r went up 77-63. ­
How does room, board, academic credit, tuition credit, and a rewarding summer sound? 
N11fitt1111l ,~ttllfll lliltttrfM





1•r•••1r••••• 
is hiring for its summer sports camp 
Pick up applications at the CSC. Call 1-6614 for more information and to schedule an interview. 
..~-~-......... 
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• LACROSSE .NBA 

Ciccarone named as assistant Raptors dominate 
Special to the Observer 
Steve Ciccarone, a starter on the 1987 Johns Hopkins University National Championship Team, has been named assistant men's lacrosse coach at the University of Notre Dame. 
Ciccarone played for the Blue Jays from 1986-89 and was a three-year starter on defense. 
He finished his career with 1 assist and 47 groundballs. As a senior, he was the recipient of the Gordon Stick Unsung Hero Award, as voted on by mem­bers of the John Hopkins lacrosse team. 
A native of Baltimore, Md., he is the son of legendary Henry "Chic" Ciccarone, an All­American midfielder for Johns Hopkins in the early 1960's and coach from 1975-83. His father led Johns Hopkins to three con­secutive NCAA titles from 1978­1980. All three of Steve's brothers-Brent, Henry Jr., and John -also played lacrosse for the Blue Jays. 
Ciccarone received his bache­lors of arts degree in social and behavioral sciences in 1990. He has been in private business for the past six years. 
that's going to win." Gotsch pre­traps for easy buckets. dicted. The Panthers will also "The thing for us to do when
Men 
use different traps to cause they trap is to move the ball," turnovers and get their fast MacLeod explained. "We can't
continued from page 24 
break in action. Fortunately, stay in the back and hang onto "It's going to be a really fast the Irish have seen a lot of traps it. We've got to get rid of it, and paced game, and the team that 
in the past few weeks, and seem hopefully with that we'll do gets back on defense is the team 
to have learned how to break some scoring." 
MacLeod indicated that he will stay with the usual starting line­up of Gotsch, Pat Garrity and Derek Manner at forward, and White and Pete Miller at guard. Miller is coming off his two best offensive games of the year, scoring 15 against the Mountaineers and 13 in the vic­tory over Seton Hall. The Irish hope that he'll continue to sport a hot hand from the perimeter, as his three-point shooting against West Virginia kept the Irish in the game, and gave them a one point lead with eight seconds to go in the contest. 
"We're going to try and con­trol the tempo a little bit; I'm sure they're going to want a real up-tempo game," Miller offered. "If we can break the trap it opens up a lot of scoring oppor­tunities for us, some from inside and on the perimeter." 
This will be Notre Dame's last game on the road for a while. With a 3-6 conference record and a firmly entrenched slot in the cellar of the Big East 6, how­ever, a road win is exactly what the squad needs. But in order to gain the victory they'll have to ensure that the Pitt transition offense doesn't relegate them into road kill.


Blazers in victory 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Doug Christie tied a career high with 33 points Tuesday night and led the Toronto Raptors to the most-lopsided victory in team history, 120-84 over the Portland Trail Blazers. 
Christie made 10-of-13 shots and was 11-for-11 from the foul line. Walt Williams tied the club record for 3-pointers, making 6­of-9, and finished with 24 points. Toronto led 73-39 at halftime, blocking 11 shots in the first two quarters. The Raptors improved to 12-11 at home this season. Portland lost for just the fourth time in 15 games. Two of those losses have been to Toronto. 
Marcus Camby added 18 points for Toronto. Damon Stoudamire had 11 points and 13 assists, and reserve Reggie Slater improved his chances for a second 10-day contract with 15 points. Isaiah Rider led the Trail Blazers with 16 points. Kenny Anderson and Gary Trent each added 13 ponts. 
Notes: With three games left this month, Portland is assured of having a winning January for the 11th time in the last 12 seasons. The Blazers are 9-4 this month.... After insisting before the sea­son that he was going to cut down· on Stoudamire's minutes, Raptors coach Darrell Walker has been unable to give his star guard much of a break. Stoudamire, who averaged 40.9 minutes per game last season, is averaging 40.3 this season. 
.rSPQRTS BRIEFS 


. t~te NightOiyropics -'"' Late at 2 p.m. fnHockne Rm. 301. ·N~ght Olyrqpics XI· is scheduled The fee is $30 for the semester for Jan, 3l at 7 p.m. at the andsign•ups will begin at 8 Joyce Center: For the name of a.m. on Jan. 27 in the your Hall Representative or for RecSports office. Classes begin more information calll-8237. on. Feb. 3. 
Shorin-Ryu Karate-RAD RecSports in 
Students are instructed accord-conjunction with Notre Dame 
ing to Okinawan techniques. Security/Police will be sponsor­
This semester-long course ing a RAD class for· women 
meets in Rockne Rm. 219 on only from Jan. 21-30. The 
Tuesdays and Thursdays from class will meet on Tuesdays 
6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 30. and Thursdays from 6:30-9:30 
You must register in advance p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. The 
at RecSports and the fee is $18. central focus of this 12 hour 
Call 1-8237 for more informa-program is learning and prac­
fiori; tieing physical tactics to defend 
Tae Kwon Do -Students against_ assault. The program 
are instructed in accordance is taught by RAD certified 
with World Tae 'Kwon Do instructors who are university 
Federation techniques. This police officers at Notre Dame. 
semester -long course meets Register in advance at 
Sundays from 3-4 p.m. in RecSports beginning today. 
Rockne Rm. 301. You must Class size is limited. There will 
register in advance at not be a fee for this class. 
RecSports and the fee is $20. Cross Country Ski Clinics-
Ball~t -RecSports will be RecSports will be sponsoring 
spo~soring Beginner and three cliniCs this winter. The 
Advanced Ballet. The first clinic will be on Jan. 25 at 
Beginner classes are for 11 a.m. and there will be two 
da.ncers with 0-4 years experi-offered on Feb. 1 at 10 a.m. 
eric d the Advanced class is and at ~ p.m. The fee for the 
~~s .'\\'ith5 ormor~ ylin,ici Mth an additional 
eri~q~~ ..Both class~$. $3tt'ln eifyou need to rent 
· · · Jpng classes with skis> R~gi~trtiti,on in advance is 
5; The Beginner r~quit¢~ for all three cross 
m. ____.. __ on Saturdays from country eUJ!iC$. ,.J1~45a:m._and Mondays YogaJ¥Jai Chi,___ The sign­.7:30~8!30 p.m. The ups begiiiJ'an. 21 at 7:45a.m. 
Adyanced class meets on in the.R~;icSports office. Stiridays from 1:15-2:45 p.m. MartialArts Institute ­and Wednesdays from 7:30-Beginners practices start this 
8:30 p~m. All classeswill be Thursday.Jan.23 ar 4 p.m.. in held in Rockne Rm. 301. 'Sign-219 Rockne. Classes meet ups will begin at 8 a.m. on Jan. twice a week, Thursdays and 27, }n the RecSports office, Sundays 6~8p.m.. 219 Rockne. space ~s limited~ Classes begin throughoutthe semester. Join oij:-ne~·l_ ... -.· .. ___ -us Thursdayor call Kyle@ 4­
Jazz Dance • A Jazz Dance 2078 for more information. 
s W~ll ~~offered Monday Cross ,<;ountry Skiing ­
A!}~$ !fay from. 6•7 :15 RentaJ.s are available from Fri., 
Rockne Rm. 219. All Sat;, andSWl.., from-11-4 p.m. 
~~ ___ ·.···-ewelcome. but space The rentaJs are located in the is tmited. There will be an in-Golf Shop. Call 1-642 5 for fotrqation meeting on Jan. 26 more information. 
I I 
j 
I 
·l 
I 
• 
" 
Tickets are $3... Buy One, Get One FREE! 
1-•:li'i•···~-------d on· · · AeJ:!?r~ef Jofll, "~ s search,
.til star F»~, he lrnprovi Brought to you by: 
Student Activities 
Student Programmers 
I I 
I 
-i
~OBSERVER 
is now hiring a 
WEBADMJ, 

Interest in d~~~~.itJig sites is helpful ~q.~, 

WEB ADMIN ST8ATOR 
is r~~llo~si~le for ~(l~(i~t~~; the daily lication of "'fh~ Observer on the
·~t. Interested.? Contact Liz Foran at 631-4542,.for more information. 
~--------­
t"L 
I 
I 
' 
I 
f 
I 
1­
I 
I 
I 
I ! I I 
f ' 
I I i I I r I 
I ~ 
I 
f I I I i 
i ~ 
f 
r . t 
page 22 

Hockey 
continued from page 24 
pick it up." 
With only nine games remaining in the dwindling season, someone needs to answers Poulin's call as soon as possible, preferably by this weekend when Notre Dame squares off against Lake Superior State, which is tied for second in the CCHA. 
"At this point every game is a fight," stated Poulin. "Every game is a fight for survival." He refers of course to the final playoff spot in the CCHA. One mere point separates the Irish from Alaska-Fairbanks and Ohio State, against whom the Irish have what could prove to be a critical home series on February 7-8. 
..,. 
·71' 
~ 



Women 
continued from page 24 
ing the Blue and Gold. 
Gaither is hoping to bounce back from last Saturday's tough shooting outing as a 
(. 1-Ioya double team helped to snap her streak of 76 straight games scoring in double fig­ures. She was 2 of 9 from the floor for just seven points. 
Picking up the slack for Gaither was senior forward Hosanne Bohman who tied a careBr high with 16 points. Recently, Bohman has been a solid contributor under the glass as she has 15 rebounds and 26 points in the last two games. 
On the other side of the ball, the hosts will be lead by Octavia Blue who contributed 29 total points to the Hurricane cause in their two losses to the Irish last season. 
Notre Dame is fresh off a 6 7­63 last minute win over Georgetown, an athletic squad much like the 'Canes. 
The i 

Irish head coach Muffet McGraw hopes to lead her squad to their sec­ond straight victory against Miami. 
Wednesday, January 29, 1997 
• NHl 



Panthers prevail over Canadiens 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Scott Mellanby scored a pair of goals for the second straight game and the Florida Panthers beat Montreal 5-1 Tuesday night, the Canadiens' fourth straight loss. 
Mellanby, who leads the team with 44 points, scored his 19th and 20th goals. lie had a goal and a assist as the Panthers scored three times in a six-minute span of the second period for a 4-0 lead. 
The injury-riddled Canadiens have been outscored 24-5 in their last four games, including 17-4 in the first two periods. Mellanby's first goal gave Florida a 4-0 lead 11:55 into the mid­dle period. lie scored again at 9:45 of the third. 
Ray Sheppard scored his 20th goal of the season for Miami. The Panthers also had goals by Gord Murphy and Rhett Warrener, the second of his career. Florida's Robert Svehla had two assists. 
"M1am1 may be even more 
athletic than Georgetown," ju­
nior guard Mollie Peirick com­
mented. "They play very phys­
ical and they are definitely a 
really good team." 
Another concern for 
tonight's game may be that the 
Irish are forced to leave the 
friendly confines of the Joyce 
Center for the first time in two 
weeks. 
"Playing at Miami, we defi­
nitely need to be focused," 
Peirick said. 
One wonders if dominating 
.opponents recently and the 
showdown with the top ranked 
Connecticut Huskies in just 
over a week will force the Irish 
to look ahead. But, McGraw's 
squad is focusing on the here 
and now. 
"I don't think that is a prob­
lem for us at all," Peirick said. ·"We have been preparing for each and every game the same 
way." 
The Miami Hurricanes are 
next on the list to see if they 
can knock off a very focused 
Notre Dame team. 
Women•s College Basketball AP Top 10 

1 Connecticut 28·0 2 Tennessee 29·1 3 Colorado 26·2 4 Louisiana Tech 24-3 5 Stanford 24·2 6 Texas Teen 27·3 7 Penn State 24·4 8 Vanderbilt 25·6 9 Virginia 24·4 10 North Carolina 28·4 




Open 'i>"ate 

C..Ome-to Late-Night 0\impics on fridai, Januari "31, and take-part in the O'Pf,N 'Ski\Tf, e-ve-nt which is sche-dule-d from 10:00 'PM -Midnight. 
No advance sign-ups necessari. The wst of skate rentals is $1.00 and a\\ re-nta\ fees wi\\ be-donate-d to 'Special 0\impics. 
$1.00 Donation at the. Door -~e. a \Z.e.a\ C.nampion, ~upport ~pe.c.ia\ 0\~mpic.f>! 
Frida~. Januar~ '31, 1qcn • l:OO 'PM -4:oo 1\M • Jo~c.e. C.e.nte.r • G'3HJ1100 
All LNO Mtda(s Wtrt Oonattd by tht Notrt Oamt Alumni Association All T-Shirts Wtrt Oonattd by((:~ 

MIKE PETERS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

Wednesday, January 29, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 

~6lyl CA~ Fl.~ 1foiROU0H
~~T.S ~~\1! A FeROCIOUS 
"noli A\Yt. CA'T'C~Ii\\121
APPETITE. 
niOUSANP$ OF 
INSECTS IN 1H51R 
MOUTHS• 
DILBERT 
AS YOU REQUESTED, HE.R.E 15 A SCHEDULE OF t>.LL FUTURE 
NETWORK. OUTAGE5. 
l©©!k~U1aJ ff©rw©Ju\d ~© mra1!k~U1aJ ~©m® ~©~~®aJ® m®m©tr~®~? 
M®m©tr~®~ ©ltr® ©U1~W ~©U1d ~~ W©~ h©l~® ~h®Mo 
Blackout (blak'out') n. A temporary loss of memory or consciousness; temporary amnesia caused by excessive use of alcohol. 

the Office of Alco Education 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You win the supp011 of someone in a position to help your career. Your ability to move with the times will make a deep impression on a younger individual. Seek a promo­tion in March. hut realize that you may have to relocate at some point. In business, concentrate on the over­all picture rather than insignificant details. A faltering relationship could end in November. You feel a deep sense of relief' Be on the look­out for a fun-loving romantic part­
ner. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: talk show host Oprah Winfrey, actress Ann lillian, diver Greg Louganis, actress Sara Gilbert. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Sign papers only after consulting

GRIMM,STICK ~OUR with cxpet1s. Your powerful imagi­nation is a big asset in your business 
HEAl> BACK IN "'HE 
or career. Too much self-analysis

WINt>OW. 
will deplete your energy. 

THIS? 
ing between two co-workers. A romantic encounter may have to be postponed. Avoid sounding critical of loved one"s efforts. 
VIRGO (Aug. ~3-Sept. 22J: Someone may try to take advantage of your availability. Keep your dis­tance for a while. An impulsive dec­laration could doom a budding romance. A new empl·oyee could ask questions. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Investments require constant atten­tion. Profits rise when you steer a steady course. Give a wide berth to troublemakers while deciding what choices you should make. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): It will take real ingenuity to reach a coveted goal. Avoid people who waste your time. Streamline your schedule in order to take care of essential tasks. Host a small dinner party at home. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Make a special effort to build up savings. Family members will cooperate if you appeal to their bet­ter instincts. Showcase your excel­lent managerial talents. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Seck the company of under­standing friends. News from old friends or neighbors puts you in a cheerful frame of mind. A windfall or legacy brings unexpected finan­cial gains. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep your mind on your work. Stick to previously made plans and try not to worry about living up to someone else's expectations. Your instincts are excellent. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A stock tip could prove very lucrative. However, consult experts before investing a large sum of money. A secret rendezvous could become public knowledge. 
.. i j 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IS THE POINT WHE. N 
~TUPID 
fl...ND 

GOOD LA.UGH. 
DOES 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  42 1947  &7 Steeplejacks'  
1 Grieve bitterly 1& Actress's date on Broadway? 11 It's near the  Hope/Crosby destination 43 Encouraging word  equipment DOWN  
bottom of a suit 18 Tabled'~­19 Russian fighter 20 Prefix with graphic 21 Salty septet  44 "Discreet Music" composer 45 Cabinet Dept. 47 Pencil pushers 51 Dash  1 O.T. book 2 Dumas character 3 Made gaudy, with "up" 4 Feature of some  
23 Cyrano's nose  instruments  Gothic  
25 Shoot-'em-up  53 Purcell piece  architecture  
28 Bores, in a way  54 Author Ferber  5 Name­ 
31 Number not on a clock 32 Nav. rank 33 Noted publication of 1933, for short 35 ---Magnon 36 Fully gets 40 Yard section  56 Word to the wise 58 Role in Haydn's "The Creation" 60 Break a leg? &2 Fantastic 66 Place for directions  dropper's word? & Old Dead Sea kingdom 7 Fiestas hit of 1959 aDiamond Gil 9 "-­tu" (Verdi  
aria)  
10 Son ofTelamon  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Lover of Shakespeare -4-!:.f::.!..!-=~ 12 Trunk section ~-=-+'-'-+""-! 13 Formally warned 4.:o+7+:-:-t-:+=---.r=+:::+=:-ti:+.:-t 14 Ham burger 
link? 15 Cobb et al. 22 Deep sleep 
....,_."+"+:-+:'-! 24 Kind of suit .;,;.t-=-t-=+::-+=-~~lt::':-E+=-B 26 Limerick's 
location 27 Laugh-a-minute 29 Land rover 
""'-+~~=-+::=-! 30 Post by the stairs .=.J..:=...L::..J.:+.:.J 34 Recipient 
36 Ukulele feature 37 Ethiopian of 
opera 381gnite 391nsect 
repellent? 41 Popular 80's models 46 Tropical flea 
. 48 Folk stnger from Btrmtngham, Ala. 49 Act of civility so Gamekeepers? 


52 Belt &2 Old-fashioned contraction
55 Tickle 57 "S~,ip --Lou 
63-­shoestring 
59 Black, to Blake 64 Morse dash 61 Cries in the 65 Hurricane comics heading 
. .
Answers to any three clues mthts puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Enrolling in a painting or music class will broaden your horizons. Rely on the advice of your teacher when buying the materials you need. A family member who supports your efforts is a treasured ally. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Physical fitness activities are favored. See if mate will join you. Taking up tennis or aerobics will help you shed any unwanted pounds. Do not embark on a diet without first consulting your doctor. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Taking a new approach to your pro­fessional and personal relationships will produce instant results. Your clients or customers are interested in the most up-to-date services avail­able' 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): When push comes to shove. know your limits. Seek cover if battle is brew­

• 
SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, January 29, 1997 
• HOCKEY 

Spartans too much for overmatched leers 
Loss ofSimon and Fraser weakens team 
By CHARLEY GATES Spons Writer 
Michigan State Spartan goal-

I I I 
~ . 
tender Chad Alban stonewalled the Notre Dame hockey team in Central Collegiate Hockey Association action last night, turning away all 31 shots he faced, and handed the Irish their first shut-out defeat in two years. 
"We've got to score," lament­ed head coach Dave Poulin after the 3-0 loss. "We had terrific chances in the first period -missed the net a cou­ple of times when we had ter­rific opportunities. We've just got to score goals." Notre Dame (5-12-1} remains one point ahead of Ohio Sate and Alaska-Fairbanks in the battle for the final playoff spot but failed to make up ground on idle seventh-place Western Michigan. 
The teams skated to a score-

• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish look to the road ahead at Pitt 
By DAVE TREACY 
Associate Sports Editor 

With one of the more disappointing games of the season, a con­troversial 67-66 loss to West Virginia, just fading into the rearview mirror, Notre Dame will need to keep their eyes on the road in the near future. The Irish are hitting the pavement once again, and a Pitt Panther squad, fresh off a victory over the Georgetown Hoyas last weekend, are waiting anxiously for ND's arrival. 
Pitt (10-9, 4-4) will come out with a three-guard starting line-up that highlights the quickness of the ballclub. Offensively, 6-4 point guard Vonteego Cummings is pacing the team with 14.9 points and 3.7 assists per game. He is flanked in the backcourt by Jason Maile and Kelli Taylor, both of whom are averaging over 10 points per game. 
"With three guards, they're going to be an up-tempo team since more than one guy can handle the ball," Irish point guard Admore White pointed out. "What we have to do is get back in transition, communicate on defense, and play team defense." 
The Panthers gain a guard in this set, but lose a forward. This should be to Notre Dame's advantage as the power game has become John MacLeod's squad's forte. Forward Chad Varga and center Gerald Jordan have size, but if the Irish can find a mis­match in the post they should encounter some good scoring opportunities. 
"(The Pitt three-guard set) gives us a little bit of an edge inside," center Matt Gotsch evaluated. "We're going to have to focus on getting the ball inside and taking it strong to the basket, and we'll also need to get back on defense to stop their fast break." 
The transition game will be interesting to watch as both squads like to run the floor. Defensive pressure leading to fast-break bas­kets has become an integral part of MacLeod's system, but the Irish may encounter a mirror image in the Panthers. 
see MEN I page 21 
less tic in the first period, but Spartan senior Steve Ferranti netted what would prove to be the game winner three min­utes into the second stanza on a power play goal. With fresh­man defender Nathan Borega in the penalty box for rough­ing, Ferranti sent a pass between the circles to junior Mike Watt, who received the pass near the left back boards and skated to the right before sending a pass back to the top of the crease. Ferranti was filling the middle and one­touched a low shot inside the left post. The goal would prove critical. 
"They are a veteran hockey elub," explained Poulin. "They got on!) and then they hang on and hang on." 
Irish junior goaltender Matt Eisler, who has been playing extremely well, made 33 saves -including several memo­rable ones that kept the Spartan lead at one -while lowering his season goals­against average to 3.26 (lowest by an Irish goalie in past 25 years). 
But Eisler could only hold off the Spartans for so long. Three minutes into the third period, star Spartan senior Sean Berens extended his team's lead to two goals. lie received a centering pass in the slot, faked a shot, and flicked the puck into the upper corner of the net. Berens continued his barrage at the 12:17 mark, when he took an odd-man rush shot from the left circle that Eisler was unable to clear. The puck hit off of Eisler's stick but bounced to the right side of the crease, where Berens poked home his second goal of the night. 
The Boys of Winter playP..d without freshman regulars Ben Shnon and Tyson Fraser, both of whom were lost during Saturday's game against St. Cloud State. Fraser was in­jured, and Simon was serving a disqualification p1malty he receive in the previous game. Simon is the Irish's fifth-lead­ing scorer, inducting 13 assists (second on the team) and owns an eight-game scoring streak. Fraser has been a major force behind Notre Dame's defensive unit and ranks fifth in the CCIIA for scoring among fresh­man defense man Their unavailability caused Notre Dame to go with five defense­man for much of the game while junior captain Steve Noble moved from center to Simon's left wing spot. 
Where does this loss leave the Irish? "] don't think we've taken a step back." stated Poulin. "We are a team that is thin right now...(Fraser and Simon) are two of our players that have great roles for this team. We arc looking for someone to step it up right now...somebody has got to 
see HOCKEY I page 22 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Domers bask in the Miami sun 
By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer  
Yesterday afternoon the  
Notre Dame women's basket­ 
ball team did something that  
most of us would probably  
enjoy doing as .well. They  
changed dimates.  
After winning three straight  
home contests over Pittsburgh,  
Rutgers and Georgetown, the  
Irish traveled to sunny Miami,  
Fla., whern they will take on  
the 8-10 Miami Hurricanes  
squad tonight.  
Head coach MuiTet McGraw  
has her squad firing on all  
cylinders as they have a mark  
of 17-4, ineluding a perfect 9-0  
record in conference play.  
The Domers are also riding a  
season-high seven ganw win  
streak.  
In particular, senior Beth  
Morgan is on a roll as she has  
scored 26 and 27 points in the  
last two games to lead the way  
to victory. Morgan needs just  
five points tonight to be the in­ 
augural Notre Dame member  
of the 2,000 career point club.  
The closest player to Morgan  
on the all-time leading scorer  
list is classmate Katryna  
Gaither who has amassed  
1785 points in her time wear- 
see WOMEN I page 22  Junior Mollie Peirick will lead Notre Dame against a physical Miami team. 



at Pittsburgh 
at Lake Superior Tonight 
January 3 I 


• Deacons continue winning ways at Miami 
Basketball at Madonna Tonight 
see page 20

February 1 Men's Tennis vs. Miami 
Swimming vs. Indianapolis 
• Pistons top Bucks 
February I 

February I see page 15
Women's Tennis vs. Illinois, January 30, 7 p.m. 








