
Tuesday, April22, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 129 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hickey bids Saint Mary's farewell 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Last night, Saint Mary's stu­dents took the time to say thanks. 
A special dinner organized by the Student Government Association (SG)\) in the dining hall honored College President William Hickey for his years of service as a professor and admin­istrator. 
"Wf!' appreciate all you've done for women's education," Jen Turbiak, student body president, told Hickey. SGA members pre­sented him with gifts on behalf of all the students, including an afghan blanket depicting images of the campus and a collage of photos from Hickey's years at Saint Mary's. 
Hickey, who sat at a table with a group of student leaders, rose to thank those in attendance. "Thank you so much. This is a particularly special moment for me and [my wife] Barbara," he said. 
IIe then expressed regret at his failure to duplicate "the relation­ship I had cherished and devel­oped with the students, especially during my years as the vice presi­dent dean of faculty." 
Hickey explained that the demands of the Sesquicentennial celebration, which took prece­dence in his responsibilities as 

Last night, Saint Mary's President William Hickey was presented with an afghan blanket commemorating his time at the College. 

president,were largely responsible for what he called his "rupture in availability" to students over the past few years .. 
In 1993, the Board of Trustees announced plans for the $30 million campaign. Hickey explained that in an ambitious fund raising situation like 

Game of Saint Mary's hits the stands this week 
By SARAH CORKREAN Saint Mary's News Editor 
After seven months of searching for local sponsors and designing the game board, the Game of Saint Mary's has been printed in a limited edition series. 
Sponsored by Saint Mary's social work club and Christ Child Society, the game is being sold in LeMans Hall this week. 
By selling ads to local businesses that many students frequent, student government associ­ations and residence halls at Saint Mary's, 300 games were printed. 
"We are hoping that we sell quite a few games at graduation, class reunions this sum­mer, and freshman orientation next fall in order to print another edition of games to sell throughout the school year," said Carey Weide, president of the Christ Child Society. 
The drive behind selling the game is to raise money to donate to needy children in the South Bend area. In the South Bend branch served by the Christ Child Society, 3,000 chil­dren benefit from community clothing dona­tions. 
"We are hoping to start a tradition by intro­ducing this game to the Saint Mary's commu­nity that the Christ Child Society can continue to sponsor and promote," said Weide. 
"Not only are we providing entertainment for students and a game that will bring back college memories, we are helping needy chil­dren in the community," she added. 
Like many other schools' forms of monopoly that feature local college hangouts on the game board, the Game of Saint Mary's added an additional incentive to get students to buy a 
see GAME I page 4 
that of the Sesquicentennial campaign, the College president becomes the chief financial offi­cer and the leading active recruiter. 
Hickey announced that the $28 million mark had been reached, with 18 months left in the 
see HICKEY I page 4 

Arts and Letters names Roche dean 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
Mark Roche was named dean of the 
He then studied at Princeton University where he earned his second mas­ter's degree in 1982 and his 
doctoral 
College of 
degree in Arts and 1984. Letters on R o c h e Wednesday. served on the Roche is Ohio State currently the University chair of the faculty begin­department of ning in 1984 German and and was Russian lan­named chair guages and Mark Roche of the depart­literatures at ment of 
t h e University. 
Roche will ·assume the deanship on July 1, when Harold Attridge, the current dean, steps down to assume a professor.ship at the Yale Divinity School. 
Roche is currently in Germany, doing research on a Humboldt Fellowship, which gives recipients lifetime access to research support from the German govern­ment. 
After graduating magna cum laude from Williams College in 1978 with majors in German and the history of ideas, Roche earned his mas­ter's degree in philosophy and German literature from Eberhard-Karls-Universiti.i t Tiibingen~in Germany. 
Germanic languages and literatures in 1991. 
He joined the Notre Dame faculty at the beginning of this academic year, and was named chair of the Department of German and Russian languages and litera­tures. 
"The creative imagination, the scientific study of society, and reflection on history, lit­erature, truth, self, and val­ues are at the core of any uni­versity's intellectual enter­prise." 
"Notre Dame infuses these spheres with a moral and spiritual dimension," said Roche. 
"Our goal should be not 
see DEAN I page 4 

Participants in yesterday's Dizzy Bat Race kicked off the Random Acts of Fun event on Fieldhouse Mall. See photo story, page 3. 
ND and SMC leaders gather for summit 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
Yesterday evening, newly elected student leaders from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College gathered for the second Leadership Summit held between the two schools this semes­ter. 
Representatives from Notre Dame's Board of Governors, Hall Presidents Council and class councils met with the Student Activities Board and class councils of Saint Mary's to share and compare individual programming for the upcoming year. 
"Contrary to popular belief, there is no real difference between students at the two schools," said Notre Dame student body president Matt Griffin in his introductory address to the group. "We want everyone to meet, relax and get some ideas out into the open." 

In February, Saint Mary's leader Stacy Davis instigated the first Leadership Summit at the College. Although there was not a large turnout, the meeting laid a foundation for future meetings between the schools. This summit, held in LaFortune Ballroom, was attended by close to 100 student leaders from both schools. 
"It really opens the possibility for joint programming when so many representatives are present," said Deborah Hellmuth, the organizer of this summit. "So much can be gained by learning how things are run at the individual schools." 
Food and impromptu seating creat­ed what Griffin hoped was a non­imposing environment for Notre Dame leaders to meet their Saint Mary's counterparts. After introduc­tory words from Hellmuth, Griffin and Saint Mary's student body president Nicki Milos, the leaders were free to 
see LEADERS I page 4 

The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, April 22, 1997 
• Wcmw AT A GLANCE 

Algerian troops slaughter Islamic leader after village raid 


page 2 




An addendum 
You might remember Laura Petelle 
my friend Kate. News Copy Editor 
I've written about her 
in this space before -she was the girl who 
tried to leave the dining hall with two halves 
of one apple and was told that she had two 
pieces of fruit and therefore couldn't leave. 
The apple column brought me several 
compliments, several accusations, and sev­
eral incredulous looks. But it brought Kate 
notoriety, a notoriety that she doesn't appre­
ciate. 
So I'm writing a public apology to Kate. 
Kate is now introduced to people as "the 
girl who had the half-apple." At her fresh­
man retreat she was forced to act out a skit 
about it. The half-apple story became her 
tag-line on campus. She is no longer the 5­
foot-2-inch brown-haired freshman from 
Lyons Hall who works with the First Aid 
Team, she's the "apple girl." 
Kate, I'm sorry that I wrote about your 
half-apple adventure. 
Maybe I should have written about the 
time you were sitting at one of the desks in 
my room and tipped the chair over back­
wards like a third grader. I asked, "Kate, 
are you okay?" You said.""Yeah, I landed in 
your roommate's laundry." 
Or maybe I should have written about the 
time you were yelling at me on the quad, 
gesticulating wildly, and your YoCream flew 
out of your hand and landed on the ground, 
cone and all. And you said, "I always won­
dered how that happened." 
Or maybe I should have written about our 
conversation the other day: 
"At least you won't be drinking wine with 
the trombone players anymore. You're all 
out." 
"Yeah, I scared them all away." 
"What?" 
"Oh! You meant the wine!" 
Or maybe I should have written about your 
incredible ability to beat the beginning level 
of Mindsweeper-in only 67 seconds. 
Or maybe I should have written about how 
you wrest my computer from me to conquer 
the world on Civilization (do I need to 
explain again how to put the people on the 
boats?), and then yell at me for not finishing 
my paper before the last minute. 
Or maybe I should have written about how 
you are the only person in the world who 
managed to injure herself badly enough to 
require medical attention -while working 
First Aid team. 
Or maybe I should have written about how 
you make long, drawn-out PowerPoint pre­
sentations about aliens who will take our 
shoes and make the men of the human race 
. be barefoot and pregnant. 
Or maybe I should have written about the 
time you were singing "How Can I Keep 
From Singing?" in Monday night Mass (off­
key, as usual) and muttered, "And God's 
saying, 'How can I keep them from 
singing?"' 
I could have written about any of these 
things, but instead I wrote about how you 
attempted to leave the dining hall with an 
apple. I'm sorry. I guess in the future I 
should be more careful about what I say 
about you in print; I wou~dn't want to make 
you angry or embarrass you. 
We are still rooming together next year, 
right? 
Right? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Graphics Heather MacKenzie Peter Cilella Bridget O'Connor Production 
Sports Chris Uhart Brian Reinrhaler Heather MacKenzie Kevin Robinson Lab Tech 
Viewpoint Katie Kroener Bill Crawford 

Major warns against Labor Party 
STIRLING, Scotland 
After nearly 300 years of union with England, Christine Holden thinks it's about time the Scots "had a wee say in our own affairs." They'll probably get it after national elections May 1. The front-running Labor Party promises to give Scotland its own parliament, a move that embattled Conservative Prime Minister John Major warns will 

be the first step toward shattering the United Kingdom of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Mrs. Holden, a shopkeeper in Cambusbarron, a picturesque village on a hill overlooking estates of local lairds, or landowners, has no big quarrel with Michael Forsyth, Stirling's high-profile Conservative Party legislator. "What I don't like is that just about everything that is done is Scotland needs permission from England," she says. That sentiment adds a dimension to the election in Scotland. For English voters, the choice is between the Conservatives and Tony Blair's "New Labor," the once­socialist Labor Party that has shifted to the center on tax and spending issues, blurring the differences between the two. But on Britain's unwritten constitution, the gulf between Conservatives and Laborites is enormous. 
Fisherman battles for prize marlin 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand 
A New Zealand fisherman took the wildest ride of his life after spearing a huge striped marlin during a fishing contest. Chris Browne was aqt~a-planing at speeds of up to 11 mph for 90 minutes Saturday before the big game fish was reeled in near the Hen and Chicken Islands off the northern coast. Browne said it was "a spur of the moment" decision to spear the 295 1/2-pound marlin, which at times dived to depths of 60 feet. Browne man­aged to keep his head above water, hanging on to a 50­foot rubber cord attached to the spear, which stretched as much as 150 feet during the tow. The speeding game fish towed Browne three miles out to sea before turning and weaving back toward the shore. "At one stage I was very dubious whether I could handle it," Browne told TV One News. "I was very lucky, really. I just hung on and once I realized .he was starting to tire, I knew I had him." At 54, Browne is one of New Zealand's most expe­rienced skin divers. He has been towed by kingfish before but while marlin have been speared, none has been reeled in. But Saturday's catch -believed to be a world record for a spear-fisherman -won no prizes. The marlin didn't fit on the scales. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 22. AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
FRONTS: 
..,.,.......-,r ......_._ ~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS ELURRfES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 
Roller coaster crash kills boy 
TULSA. Okla. 
Amusement park officials say a roller coaster was inspected just two weeks before an accident that killed a 14-year-old boy and injured six others. One of the cars on The Wildcat was being pulled to the top of an incline Sunday night when, just before reaching the crest, it slid 45 feet back down the track and collided with another car, said Harry Baker, assistant fire chief. Witnesses said the boy who died was in the front car. He was ejected, hitting his head on one of the ride's metal bars. 'I heard . a funny noise and looked up and the front car was com­ing backward," said Kurt Vitense, who was on the ride platform. "I couldn't tell if the people in the car even knew what was going on, but they hit awfully hard." Bell's Amusement Park was packed as visitors enjoyed a 25-cents-per-ride promotion. The park remained open after the accident. The ride was inspected two weeks ago by the Oklahoma Department of Labor, park presi­dent Robert Bell III said. He said all rides are inspected once a year. Two 14-year-old boys were in serious con­dition today at St. Francis Hospital. A father, two of his daughters and another young girl who was a family friend were treated and released. The cause of the acci­dent was unknown. Baker said the cars are pulled to the top of the initial crest by a chain. 
Vandals desecrate national cemetary 
HONOLULU 
Blood red messages of hate·for the state and police were sprayed on hundreds of tombstones and walls at five cemeteries, including the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific. The vandalism was discovered Sunday. The culprits were organized, using templates to stencil some of their painted messages, police said. One scrawled message at the national cemetery said, "Let all visitors know Hawaiians are racist." Another said, "Hawaii desecrates me! I desecrate." Still another addressed the Honolulu Police Department: "H.P.D. ignores hate crime. IGNORE THIS." The vandals identi­fied themselves on one cemetery wall as "Ps.A.R.I.H. (Psychos Against Racism in Hawaii.)" The misspelled message went on to say: "We don't negotiate. We don't compromise." One of the messages at the Hawaii State Veterans Cemetery said, "My love was greater than your love. Now my hate is greater than your hate." The cost of damage was estimated in the thousands. Novie Barnes, 94, found her husband's marker desecrated when she visited the national cemetery for American war dead."lt's hard to think that anybody could be so cruel or so mean to do the trick like that to people." 
ALGIERS 

Algerian forces killed the leader of an Islamic militant faction and 32 of his followers blamed for village mas­sacres south of Algiers, newspapers reported Saturday. 
Amir Ayoub's faction was part of the Armed Islamic Group, considered the most radical underground group fighting to topple Algeria's military­backed government. 
The papers gave no details of the raid on the group around the town of Chebli, 20 miles south of the capital, Algiers. 
There was no official confirmation of the killings. 
They were thought to have occurred Thursday and Friday as part of a gov­ernment offensive south of Algiers '----'---------'---A-P-/C_a_ri_F_jox where attackers have terrorized vii­
]ages, slashing, shooting and behead­ing villagers. 
Villagers largely blame Ayoub's fac­tion for the attacks, which have killed 180 civilians in a little more than two weeks. 
Security forces have redoubled their efforts to clean up the region before June 5 legislative elections, the first since the army canceled a January 1992 vote that the Islamic Salvation Front was poised to win. 
The army's action then triggered an uprising by Islamic militants; fighting since then has killed an estimated 60,000 people. 
The Islamic Salvation Front has urged Algerians to boycott the June elections, saying the government is certain to rig the vote. 
Accent Ashleigh Thompson 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

~,~,~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Anchorage 4 7  25  Erie  53  39  Newark 69  46  
Atlanta  77  58  Fresno  81  57  Pueblo  69  33  
Boise  66  44  Jackson 75  60  Tulsa  70  51  
Columbus 61  42  Lincoln  57  40  Waco  80  57  
Daytona  82  60  Memphis72  55  Wichita  64  47  


Tuesday, April22, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
A
ntostal partic­
ipants took 
part in activi­

ties such as eating contests, a wet clothes race and a sack race. The fes­tivities were fol­lowed by an ele­mentary school theme in the dining halls and a show­ing of Top Gun. 
Today in Antostal 
Activities planned for today include big wheel races, Twister and a root beer chugging contest followed by a burping contest. The Notre Dame version of MTV's Singled ·out is billed as the highlight of today's action. A performance by Irish Accent and a showing of "The Breakfast Club" are also planned. 
ND priest succumbs to prolonged illness 
Special to The Observer 
Father William Lewers, 69, died at 2:50 p.m. Saturday at Holy Cross House following a lengthy illness. 
A former Provincial Superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Lewers, at his death, was a member of the Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, a professor of law and director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights in the Notre Dame Law School, and a fellow in Notre Dame's Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
A wake service for Lewers will be held Wednesday at 7:30p.m. at Moreau Seminary. The Mass of the Resurrection and Rites of Christian Burial will be celebrat­ed Thursday at 3:30 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Burial will follow immediately in the Congregation of Holy Cross Community Cemetery. 
A native of Kansas City, Mo., Lewers had occupied his current positions at the University since 1988. 
A staunch defender of human rights, he was a driving force in initiating Notre Dame's Master of Laws program in International Human Rights Law, which has brought lawyers from around the world together for specialized study and research. He also played a cen­tral role in the U.S. publication of the report of the Chilean National Commission on Truth and Reconciliation by the University of Notre Dame Press, which documented human rights abuses during the former military regime in that country. 
Most recently, he had helped to create a program, now being funded by the MacArthur Foundation, that is sending recent Notre Dame law gradu­ates to assist in the work of the 
U.N. tribunal investigating war crimes in the former Yugoslavia. 
Lewers served the Catholic bishops of the United States as director of the U.S. Catholic Conference's Office of International Justice and Peace from 1983 to 1988. 


Save time and 1noney with our convenient location just north of campus. We'll even pay you a "nifty" fiity dollars•:• to open your Direct Deposit Checking Account with us. Cool ... 
• 
No-FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
No PER-CHECK CHARGE 

• 
No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 



~ Q.JJ.-With Direct Deposit of your entire paycheck, you are eligible for our Golden Shamrock Club with these additional benefits, and more. 
• 
FREE GOLDEN SHAMROCK CLUB CHECKS 

• 
FREE TRAVELER'S CHECKS (MAXIMUM OF $2,000) 

• 
DISCOUNTS (1/4%) .ON QUALIFIED CONSUMER LOANS 


(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
World-Wide Web: http://www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 
A Better Choice to Make 
*This offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and full time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College. $50 wili be cr-edited to your account within 30 days of receipt of your first direct payroll deposit. Termi~ation of this acco~nt prior t~ 12 months of its opening, can require repayment of the $50. This offer ends no later than June 30,1997, and may be Withdrawn sooner Without not1ce. 

Internship provides entry into politics 
By RACHEL RICHMOND interns. The interns work on a News Writer range of political-oriented pro­jects, including researching Opportunities in the fast­federal and state campaigns, paced world of politics are collecting evaluations of cur­available to students through rent candidates' performances, PrQject Vote-Smart. and finding information on cur­Project Vote-Smart is a non­rent political issues. Research partisan, non-profit research is done via the Voter's organization that hires college Research Hotline and main­
taining the Vote-Smart web 
site. 
Project Vote-Smart is com­
pletely funded through grants 
and donations. 
In addition to various nation­
al leaders, its national board 
consists of former and present 
congressmen of both parties. 
Grants from the Hearst 
Foundation have enabled 
Project Vote-Smart to reward 
scholarships to the interns. The 
average scholarship is $1,000, 
with up to $100,000 available 
in funds. 
All majors are accepted, but 
Adelaide Elm, a founder of the 
organization, noted that politi­
cal science, communications, 
journalism and computer sci­
ence majors are particularly 
valuable. Elm also said that 

the interns "become staff mem­. hers" for Project Vote-Smart 
and work 40-hour weeks. 
The internships generally last 
at least 10 weeks, with year­
round positions open. 
"We find it astounding that 
young citizens are labeled as 
apathetic and uninterested in 
government and politics," said 
Ann Yoder, national internship 
coordinator for Project Vote 
Smart. 
"Our interns are the most 
idealistic, enthusiastic group of 
people in the country today, 
and they constantly inspire the 
rest of us to work harder in our 
efforts to improve the political 
climate for everyone," she con­
tinued. 
Project Vote Smart has its 
main office in Corvallis, Oregon 
and a branch in Boston. 
Applications for this summer 
are being accepted throughout 
this month. 
Anyone who is interested 
should call Ann Yoder at 
(541)7 54-2746 or send e-mail 

to intern@vote-smart.org. 

page 4 

Dean 
tion in 
''I'm 

be the Dean; he is a superior outside experiences," he con­exact same thing at the exact teacher and scholar and an tinued. same time." administrator of tremendous "Most important," said The idea for a Leadership vision and skill," said Hatch at the time of the Summit was derived after last 

University provost Nathan Hatch. 

"His colleagues speak in the most flattering terms about his ability to build consensus among diverse colleagues and his interest in mentoring 
Associated Press 
There was no sign of the pilot, Running said, but the type of wreckage visible from the sky points to Button's plane. 
"It is our collective judg­ment that what we have seen is likely to be A-10 airplane pieces," Running said. 
Gray painted pieces of metal that look like parts of an A-1 0 were spotted, Running said. Yellow-green paint, consistent with Button's warplane, was also seen. 
"We will need to get some pieces to make that absolutely certain," he said. 
The wreckage was spotted on the south side of New York Mountain, a 12,500-foot peak about 15 miles southwest of Vail. The area had been examined before, but snow in the area has melted since then, he said. 
2nd Lt. Keith Shepherd, a spokesman for Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Arizona said the site was within the prima­ry search area and was con­sistent with visual sightings about the time the warplane disappeared. 
Three days after Button, 32, disappeared, the search shift­ed to Colorado, where faint radar signals were detected in the central Rocky Mountains. Radar data and witness accounts indicate Button con­sciously broke away from his three-plane training forma­tion and flew to Colorado. 
Air Force officials previously suggested Button could have become incapacitated and put the $9 million plane on autopilot. 
People reported hearing booming noises in the Vail area on the day Button disap­peared. Other witnesses have said they saw dark clouds that could have been smoke. 
Weather conditions, rugged terrain and avalanche danger made search efforts difficult. Officials used U-2 spy planes and helicopters to scour the mountains arbund Eagle, appointment, "he has a clear understanding and apprecia­tion of the defining character­istics of Notre Dame -its commitment to undergraduate education, its aspiration to undertake world-class 


Air Force locates missing warplane 
year's student government leaders decided to address the lack of communication between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, hoping to plan future events that incorporated both 


Hickey 
continued from page 1 

campaign. "I want to hit the goal [of $30 million] by the end of May," Hickey announced. "I plan to hit the road again soon," he stated. 
He recommended to students that, upon graduation, they remember how lucky they were to have attended to Saint Mary's. He told them that it was their responsibility to be the pri­mary recruiters of high school students to apply to Saint Mary's. 
Hickey also took the chance to reflect on the College itself. "It is wonderful to be a part of this marvelous institution. I can't say how happy I am to have been a part of it," he said. 
"I can't say how sad it is to leave," he concluded. 
Hickey, who resigned last spring, will officially step down at the end of May. His successor, Marilou Denbow Eldred will assume the office on June 1. 

about  100 miles  west  of  
Denver.  
Button,  a  native  of  

Massapequa, N.Y., had been a flight instructor at Laughlin Air Force Base in Del Rio, Texas, until he arrived in Tucson in February to train on the A-10. 
Military investigators have been looking into his back­ground in hopes of finding an explanation for his disappear­ance. 
The probe includes the Air Force's Office of Special Investigations, which typically handles criminal matters such as fraud and counterintelli­gence. 
But Air Force officials involved in the search have said the investigation has found "no derogatory evi­dence" about his past. 
schools. Among some of the resources," explained Beth inter-campus events proposed Nolan, Notre Dame's senior were possible joint-class din­class president. "The communi­ners and retreats. cation gap needs to be bridged 
"Right now we are just hop­before we can effectively coor­ing to collaborate our dinate programming." 
$200 m coupons rn each board game.
Game 

"When you buy the game you are not only buying acontinued from page 1 
form of entertainment and a memory board of your collegegame. 
days, but also getting a great
Local community restau­
deal on the coupons that local
rants, bars and movie the­businesses have donated,"aters have donated up to 
said Weide. 


exx 
Apexx is a new computer sales and service company in the Michiana area. We are dedicated to providing quality service at competitive rates. Whether you need a new system to meet your increasing needs as a student or professional, or your current computer needs fine tuning, Apexx is the solution. 
271-7680 

Computer Sales & Service 

$35/hour service fee compared with up to $60/hour at the Notre Dame Computer Store 
Quick emergency turnover, usually in one or two days 
Emergency loaners available 


We come to your dorm or apartment! 

SUMMJER li 997 COURSJE OfflEliUNGS liN HJl(}-lJEVJEl MATHJEMATKCS 
MATH 104-Finite Mathematics-(3 Credit Hours) 1:15-2:55 MTWTF,June 30-July 29 Call #3318-Last "add" date: July 1. 
Course Content: Combinatorics. Finite Probability Spaces. The more common discrete random variables. Elementary applications. 
MATH 105-Elements ofCalculus I-(3 Credit Hours) 1:15-2:55 MTWTF, May 27-June 27 
Call #3317-Last "add" date: May 28. 
Course Content: An introduction to rhe calculus ofalgebraic, exponential and logarithmic functions. 
MATH 108-Elements ofCalculus II for Business-(3 Credit Hours) 8:35-10:10 MTWTF, June 30-July 29 
Call #4055-Last "add" date: July I-Prerequisite: MATH 105 or equivalent. 
Course Content: This course, designed for first-year students who intend to major in the College of Business Administration, 
introduces the basic concepts of calculus through problefl1s arising in business and economics. 
MATH 120-Calculus B-(3 Credit Hours) 1:15-2:55 MTWTF June 30-July 29 
Call #4056-Last "add" date: July 1-Prerequisite: MATH 119 or equivalent. 
Course Content: This is the second semester of a course for biology and preprofessional students whose programs require a 
one-year terminal course in calculus. 
MATH 126-Calculus II-(4 Credit Hours) 8:35-10:10 MTWTF, June 30-July 29 
Call #41 05 -Last "add" date: July I -Prerequisite: MATH 125 or equivalent. 
Course Content: The second semester of a comprehensive course in calculus of one variable generally taken by students in science 
and engineering. 

For further information, please contact: Professor Dennis Snow Director of Undergraduate Studies Dennis.M.Snow.1 @nd.edu 

http://www.nd.edu/-ndreglas/idreg.html 

Tuesday, April22, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 




British bomb threats cause distraction, traffic problems 
By AUDREY WOODS rupt the British gener­
Ire-land, on April 10, clogged solid. and a bomb Friday at Thousands of passengers were strand­Associated Press Writer al election" on May 1, 
said Tony Blair, the railroad station in ed out on the tarmac at Gatwick and LONDON leader of the Labor Leeds. Luton airports before they received Monday's threats clearance to disembark. Others waited
A string of telephoned bomb threats Party, which is way forced the evacuation for hours, their flights canceled or re­
tied London's air, rail and road traffic in ahead in the polls. knots on Monday and momentarily dis­In late March, 'Of four major railroad routed. stations and two air­The railroad stations all reopened by
tracted politicians from the national Labor's Northern 
ports. noon, and the gridlock slowly melted.
election campaign. Authorities blamed Ireland spokeswoman, 
the IRA. Mo Mowlam, suggest­"Basically, west Flights disruptions, however, lasted all ed that the Sinn Fein London and central day.Prime Minister John Major, express­
London are closed," Some people caught in the mess took
ing contempt for the Irish Republican party could be invited 
to join all-party talks Royal Automobile the bomb threats in stride. Others wereArmy, praised the "stoicism and good humor" of the traveling public, which in Northern Ireland in Club spokesman Peter exasperated. 
June if their allies in Brill said at midmorn­"I don't think anyone's going to takestruggled all morning with citywide traf­
the IRA quickly ing. "This is going to any notice of them; it's happened timefic snarls. No bombs were found. 
restored their cease­be some of the worst and time again," said Ian Baker, wait­"It is essential to take these warnings 
fire, which lasted 17 AP traffic chaos that we ing for police to give the all-clear toseriously," Major said. "The IRA have 
months until February have seen in London enter the building where he works.
murdered in the past. They will not hes­
itate to murder again." 1996. for many years, if ever." Police sealed "It's John Major's fault,· said Mike No one claimed responsibility, The IRA's answer was more disrup­off Trafalgar Square and Whitehall, at Fenton, who spent three hours driving tion and violence: a bomb hoax that the heart of the British government. nine miles into central London.
although the people who called in the 
threats used recognized IRA code canceled the Grand National horse race Cars, taxis and buses, wedged bumper "If he had sorted out the problem in 
words. on April 5, the shooting of a police­to bumper, strangled Parliament the beginning, we wouldn't have this "It's a clear attempt by the IRA to dis-woman in Londonderry, Northern Square. Some roads into the city were problem," he said. 
Clinton views Dakota flood damage 
By PHILIP BRASHER Monday. after disasters. The federal 
Water from the swollen Red share can be increased to 90 
River covers 75 percent of percent in severe cases. North 
WASHINGTON Grand Forks and virtually all of Dakota lawmakers have 
President Clinton will scrap neighboring East Grand Forks, appealed for 100 percent. his Earth Day celebration plans Minn. One block of downtown The costs of recovery in the 
Associated Press Writer 
to take a firsthand look Grand Forks were gutted by region could exceed $1 billion, Tuesday fire. leaving the skeletons of said Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D. the flooding buildings in streets swamped Clinton plans to tour the area in Grand with five feet of water. by helicopter and then visit Forks, N.D., The governors of North with local leaders, rescue and meet with Dakota and Minnesota are workers and the townspeople refugees who pressing Clinton to increase who have taken refuge at have fled the federal aid to the region, which Grand Forks Air Force Base, inundated had already been ravaged by a about 15 miles east of the river. city. series of blizzards before this Clinton has cut back his trav­
"These peo-Clinton spring's flooding. eling since he injured his knee pic arc facing The federal government nor­and had it surgically repaired a disaster and we want to see mally pays 7 5 percent of the last month. For his tour 
what we can do to help as soon cost of assisting individuals and Tuesday, he will use a smaller as possible," Clinton spokes­for rebuilding roads, water sys­helicopter that only has one woman Mary Ellen Glynn said tems and other infrastructure step to navigate, aides said. 



~---------------------------------------------------------------­





VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Tuesday, April22, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley 
News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ..................... Dan Cichalski Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
Business Manager Tom Roland 
Advertising Manager.............................. ] ed Peters Ad Design Manager .......................... Wendy Klare Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Controller............................................Kyle Carlin 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administration of either 
insrirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent 
the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediror, Accent Edicor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aurhors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  63I-53l3  
Managing EdirorNiewpoinr  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  63!-5323  Systems  63!-8839  
Sports  63!-4543  Office Manager  63!-747!  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  63!-6927  
Day Editor/Production  63!-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  63!-747!  Ad E-Mail  obserVer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• THE MIGHTY OAK 
The eyes of science: Beauty as imperfection 
Nathaniel Hawthorne tells the story of a brilliant scientist married to a most beautiful woman, angelic in every way and flawless in her beauty save for one tiny birthmark on her downy cheek. Despite his fortunate estate, this scien-

Sean O'Connor 
tist is discontent. He has a thing clos­
est in its casting to that which he would 
name the ideal of beauty, yet he is 
denied that ideal, held from it by only 
one tiny mar. And the knowledge of 
this burns in him, consuming his mind. 
In this fey mood, he devises a technolo­
gy by which he can wrest his wife's 
cheek from the grip of the tiny blemish, 
and his devices work and the blemish is 
driven away, but in the very process, 
the frail spirit of his wife is broken and 
she dies. In his hubris, he destroys the 
very thing he would perfect. 
What is perfection? Who knows what perfection truly is, if such a thing does exist? It is our natural wont to seek perfection, or at least try to define it, or name that which comes closest to the mark. But how can we define it if we have never known it? We can only say that a thing without flaws is perfect. 
A clearer definition might be con­structed for imperfection. Most would call a bucket with a hole in it or a knife too dull to cut, imperfect. Something could be imperfect because it did not function properly or efficiently enough, or it missed some imaginary ideal of beauty that no one has ever seen. I guess that something can always func­
• tion with a hypothetically greater effi­ciency, so all technology is always imperfect. 
Applied science seeks to better the 
• IJOONESBURY 
technology it creates with each passing day. Human industry has also sought to improve living things, breeding fatter kernels of corn and fatter, dumber cows. The traditional selective breed­ing processes used by people for thou­sands of years are beginning to yield to new, more exact methods such as recombinant DNA technology. Researchers are manipulating the genetic structures of organisms to yield greater perceived benefits to humans. 
Like tools and other living things, humans are imperfect in the way they function and the way they approach our imaginary ideal of beauty. Could they too be improved? 
In the future, artifact and the envi­ronment might not be the only subjects of our constant attempts at refinement. The very human form could be on the brink of intrinsic alterations in an attempt to bring it closer to perfection. Already, very worthy research is delv­ing into the possibilities of gene therapy to combat serious genetic diseases. Hopefully, the same techniques will not be employed to perform cosmetic adjustments to people's appearances, or to alter certain facets of their per­sonalities. 
An organism is essentially an expres­sion of its genes filtered through its environment. Some would argue that an organism is merely a vehicle for its genes to replicate. By manipulating a person's genes, we could be fundamen­tally altering their identity, changing them !'rom one discrete individual to another. 
The cloning of a sheep by Scots researchers a few months back is the first step into a dangerous new realm. This technology might one day be applied to humans to proliferate people with those traits we consider closer to perfection. Perhaps this is a long-off nightmare vision in the vein of "Brave New World," but hypothetically such a situation could arise. 
Closer to our present experience is the genetic engineering of organisms through recombinant DNA technology. 
Hesearchers can take selected genes that confer resistance to herbicides, increase the growth rate, etc., and insert them into the genomes of certain food crops to improve the vigor of the crop. Although these efforts have been successful a number of times, risks do exist.. Food plants that have been imbued with herbicide or pesticide resistance genes could crossbreed with weedy wild relatives, creating a race of hard-to-kill superweeds. This has already happened under laboratory conditions. 
A controversy is currently raging over a bacterium that lives on plant leaves. This bacterium has been shown to serve as a nucleus for ice crystal for­mation., exposing the plant to frost damage. Researchers have found a way to engineer the frost-forming genes out of the bacterium. They want to spray the altered bacterium on plants in the hopes that it will out-com­pete its wild predecessor and confer greater frost resistance to crops. But it has been discovered that the same bac­terium lives on the coats of bees and other pollinator insects. Researchers cannot predict how the altered bacteri­um would affect the relationship of frost to the insects, so the release of the bacterium is thankfully on hold. 
The interactions between any one organism and its environment are probably infinitely complex. It is not possible to fully predict them in the lab­oratory. The release of a genetically­altered organism into the wild can be equivalent to the introduction of an exotic species into an ecosystem. In both scenarios, there is always the dan­ger that ecological balances might be swung akilter, even by a seemingly harmless microorganism. 
A genetically diverse population is the material from which natural selection picks its winners. As foresight is limit­ed, who can say that something which is considered a flaw now will not become an evolutionary benefit when conditions change? Maybe some new disease will arise and sweep across a 
GARRY TRUDEAU 


genetically monotonous population of cloned cattle, and perhaps there may once have existed some llaw in the cat­tle's gene pool which we excised, but that flawed gene might have also given resistance to this new disease. But who would know, because diversity was compromised for size. 
Biologist Stephen Jay Gould writes about the "thumb" of the Chinese panda, which is actually not a thumb but a sixth appendage, an extension of one of the metacarpal bones. The panda uses its spur to strip leaves from its primary food, bamboo. The "thumb" is not terribly efficient. An engineer could probably design a better device, but natural selection works with only that material provided to it, imperfections of form. At some point in evolutionary history, the spur was probably no more than a bump on the wrist, but then conditions changed and it became a boon to the animal. If the panda were a farm animal, would we see the bump as a flaw and try to engi­neer it out of existence? 
I recently read a description of the waterfalls of the Yosemite Valley writ­ten by naturalist John Muir. Each of the falls he speaks of has its own spe­cial character. There are those of great power and thunderous noise, and there are those of wild froth and unfet­tered course, and there are those that fall like sheets of unbroken glass, and all of these are beautiful. But there is one, not as noticeable as the rest, not as high or broad or voluminous, but creased on its lip by a knob of rock, a knob not high enough to split the course but at just that height to lay inches beneath the water surface and warp its surface, producing a long flut­ing down its entire course. And it is this imperfection, this birthmark on the cheek or bump on the wrist, that bless­es the fall with a subtle beauty that exceeds even the most grand. 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. llis column appears every other Tuesday. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Wisdom entereth not 
into a malicious 

mind, and science without 
conscience is but the ruin of 
the soul." 
-Francois Rabelais 


VIEWPOINT

Tuesday, April22, 1997 page 7 
• AND IN THIS CORNER••• 
The way we each live our lives is always ments which divide with the concept of mental anomaly." subject to judgment, just or unjust, by love which unites. This, it is said, is what Your claim that those around us. What we do and who we makes one fundamentally Christian: the religion can "cure" are is necessarily interpreted by each and belief that the embodiment of all that is homosexuality is everyone else, sometimes on the basis of good, all that is love, all of the whole of both laughable and community standards. sometimes through the universe, whether it be called God, terrifying. tradition, sometimes religion, always Allah, Buddha, Brahma, or what have What will you 
you, this all-encompassing force binds the next insist? Will universe together, gives it shape, and you insist that soci­gives it meaning. The smallest part of this ety force homosex­Unity is as important as the largest part. uals to undergo All parts of the universe are but a reflec­shock therapy to 
Matthew 
tion of the whole; each contributes to the change their orien­universal spirit oflove and unity, and as tation to "normal"? you do to the least of these, so you do to Will you declare
Apple 
the greatest, and to the whole. that heterosexuals 
The Catholic Church believes different­who have a certain ly. The Church dogma, built up over cen­number of children turies of hate, violence and bigotry, states are as guilty of 
because of perceived differences. We are that procreation, not love, is the founda­"excess" as homo­always judged by those who want the tion of the universe. If you cannot or do sexuals? Will you support "studies" that al members of the Notre Dame-Saint world to be just like them. not have children, if you do not add little "prove" that blacks have a genetically Mary's community among the bravest 
Dogma, the unshakable tenets we must soldiers to the blind Army of God, you inferior intelligence quota? Will you pro­people alive. Your words hurt these brave believe in, control our pocket universes. If cannot be Christian, and you cannot be claim working mothers who leave their people and this academic community. we disagree fundamentally with suppos­saved. Love, the force which has no end, children at daycare centers "morally" Your words shame everyone who ever edly unshakable tenets, we simply form is created by the dogma into merely a unfit to be mothers and deserving of the claimed the title Christian. Your bigoted other unshakables to found our new set of means to an end. Love has become no death penalty? Will you claim that brand of Christianity is hypocritical and beliefs. Dogma lies at the centre of all longer a means unto itself, but merely a because Jews "killed" Christ and do not emotionally and mentally scarring, and human existence. Simply put, if we didn't by-product of the auspices of the law of profess belief in the Resurrection it proves your concept of "morals" would make the believe in something, whatever that the Church. Love is made only important Judaism is an "intrinsic moral evil"? Will bloodthirsty, God-fearing Inquisitors of something may be, the universe just insofar as it adds to the number of believ­you claim that a person is not a person, Spain extremely proud to claim you as wouldn't make any sense. The very idea ers and money-givers, insofar as it adds unless the Catholic Church says so? Will one of their own. that the universe doesn't make sense to the power of those who accept all peo­you support sexual eugenics and the While the administration of Saint doesn't make any sense to us; we MUST ples, if only they believe the same thing, if denial of Constitutional liberty to we the Mary's and Notre Dame refuse to have meaning, and if it means eradicating only they do not disagree with the dogma. people, if we are different? acknowledge that homosexual students anything and everything that doesn't con­The differences love brings are not They come out of confusion and fear for need a support group run by fellow stu­form to our view of the order of the world, allowed, not because they are wrong or advice and compassion, and you hold out dents, you go them one further by deny­
then we will do it gladly. harmful, but because the dogma says so. stern salvation in one hand and the staff ing these students their very right to exist Certain people who think they can use Difference is forbidden, because it is dif­of scarification in the other. They ask for as human beings. You repulse me. You 
sicken me. You turn all the vaunted val­
the concept of law to condemn an entire ferent. recognition, and you call them mentally segment of the human population do so Professor, please explain to me, if ever diseased. They ask to be treated with dig­ues of this religion of love into a pack of because they cannot conceive of the rest there was love here, where has the love nity, and you strip them of their humanity insidiously preying lies. of world deciding not to abide by their gone? In this rigidly dogmatic and hierar­and deny them the right to be individual, You are not fit to be a professor. You internalized dogma of the universe. What chical power structure that is a university, to be human. You quote decrees, procla­are not fit to teach these youths how to they term "wrong," "bad," or "evil" essen­why, instead of teaching and advising, mations, encyclicals and bulls -which better themselves and their community. 
tially means nothing more than "I don't helping its members grow as individuals are just that -and you think by this to You are not fit to teach anybody anything 
like it." or "That does not fit my system." who can add to the community their indi­prove gays and lesbians as somehow but how to hate. You are the crowning What certain people condemn, they do so vidual talents, knowledge and spirits, why being less than people. Look at what you representation of all that is wrong with out of fear and out of ignorance. They do you encourage the wolves to flay the hold up as the truth, look at what you the Catholic Church, with the institution of 
condemn what they do not understand; flock and do not open your arms in loving claim as the highest authority -words. Christianity, and with the University of they condemn in their insecurity what welcome? Only words. Would you value a piece of Notre Dame. You are a disgrace of a they fear would happen if they did under­Professor, you have an incredible paper more than a human life? human being, and you desel{'e the toler­stand. They condemn because they refuse amount of gall claiming that prayer can Professor, your words of hate and nar­ance and love of those whom you deny to believe that others exist who do not "correct" homosexuality; you have enor­row-minded zealotry do the Notre Dame are capable of true love. You are truly share the subjective ordering they have mous chutzpa to support the claim that Law School and this entire university a worthy of my pity. forced upon the world. alcohol abuse and homosexuality are grave injustice. It is no wonder that 
The most important and most cited "morally" equivalent. You and your sup­homosexual students would rather trans­Matthew Apple is a graduate student in commandment of the New Testament is posed proof of the "evil" of homosexuality fer to other universities or even kill them­the English department. Contact him at Love thy Neighbor. This commandment, it arc as laughable as the AMA's former selves than publicly acknowledge their mapple@skyenet.net or is said, supplants all previous command-"proof' that homosexuality is a "develop-sexual orientation. I count the homosexu-http://www.skyenet.net/-mapple. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The cross revisited: C9mmitment to change 
Dear Editor: conviction of those moments is echoed in the common Some may think it rather morose to dwell on all of this 
Julie Ferraro's column, "God 'N Life," aptly demon­sense, "chin up" advice offered in Ferraro's column. now. After all, this is the season of lilies and white strates two important truths. First, we are all called to Further, Jesus' suffering on the cross is qualitatively linens. The cross was not the last word on Jesus; Easter "do theology" in the course of integrating our faith into unlike virtually every instance of suffering listed by changed everything. Indeed it does -but not in the our life. Second, it is not easy to do theology well. Ferraro. Even setting aside the obvious difference, that way that Ferraro seems to think. For Christians, Easter Generally I think her columns make an able effort at Christians accord to Jesus' suffering a redemptive sig­doesn't begin with the promise that "we all have the affirming the first truth, linking faith and life in the nificance that we don't claim for our own (and I certain­chance to rise again" (though clearly it does bear that unique context of Notre Dame. So, it is with some reluc­ly don't infer from Ferraro's column that she ignores promise). Easter begins with the declaration that now tance that I feel compelled to suggest that her Holy this), if we wish to draw any exemplary significance we all have a reason to die. Week column on the cross and suffering is unfortunately from Jesus' cross for our own lives -if we wish to There is a poem from Central America entitled stark evidence of the second truth. While trying to understand accurately what it means to "carry the "Threatened with Resurrection." The point of the poem relate the cross and resurrection of Jesus to our own cross" -we need to pay much closer attention to the is this: if we wish to confess the truth of the resurrec­daily lives -an admirable desire, to be sure -she triv­form of Jesus' suffering. Nowhere have I seen this stated tion, it requires that we confirm with our own lives the ializes both of these decisive events in Christian history, more clearly than in John Howard Yoder's "The Politics path that led Jesus to Easter-a path that continues to finally reducing them to little more than instances of of Jesus" (1972, rev. 1994): "The cross of Christ was not run by way of the cross. Easter doesn't primarily give us positive thinking. an inexplicable or chance event, which happened to the hope with which to face life's manifold uncertainties 
To suggest that Jesus' cross is comparable to the suf­strike him, like illness or accident, [but rather a] con­(though I suppose it does do that); fundamentally it fering we experience in disease, tragedy, inconvenience, stantly reiterated free choice. He warns his disciples threatens us with the joyful claim that truly in expend­or academic anxiety is just plain bad theology. I don't lest their embarking on the same path be less conscious ing our lives for others we will find life for ourselves. deny that the incarnation as a whole suggests that God of the costs. The cross of Calvary was not a difficult In closing I want to reaffirm my admiration for has come to identify with the assorted sufferings of family situation, not a frustration of visions of personal Ferraro's columns in general. I hope she continues to human life in a previously unimaginable way, but I need fulfillment, a crushing debt, or a nagging in-law; it was share with us her sincere and thoughtful efforts at link­to challenge the claim that this is what happens on the the political, legally-to-be-expected result of a moral ing "God 'N Life." And I wish the Notre Dame communi­cross -and that this is the lesson we are to draw from clash with the powers ruling his society" (p. 219). ty well in approaching the varied stresses that assail us, it for our lives. If Jesus' cross came to be understood as redemptive no doubt with particular force at the semester's end. 
Jesus' passion was something quite other than "keep­on the scale of eternity, it was reckoned thus, at least in But I hope that no one any longer makes the mistake of ing·a stiff upper lip" or "making the best of a bad situa­part, because his' historical life and ministry made so thinking that our efforts to cope with such things consti­tion." The reality of the crucifixion can hardly be unmistakably clear the passion of God to maintain a tute "carrying the cross." If we want to "carry the described as "not that bad." We're talking about spikes transforming solidarity with God's people in the face of cross" -and I hope that many of us do -then let us being driven. one mallet blow at a time, through human the powers -both spiritual and temporal -which use the promise of Easter to commit ourselves to the flesh. We're talking about a body, with the skin already would oppress them. To see the cross in this light transforming of society into a more just and compas­flayed by scourging, now hoisted into a position where unavoidably suggests that when the Gospels exhort us to sionate place. We can start right here on this campus. breathing is only the most painful possibility -until "take up the cross," they have something similar in And we won't need to buy any lumber or nails; if we are even it becomes impossible. And when Jesus cries out, mind. We carry the cross not by being cheerful despite persistent in our efforts, sooner or later society will sup­"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" those the fact that "sh** happens," but rather by allying our­ply the rest. That's a promise -and it has the guaran­words don't evoke the calm disposition of a man merely selves with the needs of the poor and the outcast -and tee of Easter behind it. counting the days until Easter when he'll "have the doing so with a full recognition that still today there are chance to rise again." I'm not saying that Jesus' faith powers, both spiritual and temporal, that will exact a DAVID R. WEISS faltered on the cross, but I don't think the desperate clear price from us for this act of Christian discipleship. Graduate student in Theology 

·--------------~-------·-------------­


ACCENT

page 8 Tuesday, April 22, 1997 
-



Accent takes a closer look a 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Associate Accent Editor 
he murmurs of the crowd dissolve into silence, broken only by 

the first loud notes of music and steady spotlights. A voluptuous woman takes center stage, swaying to the beat and mouthing the lyrics with artful precision. The picture is one of poised seduction: a well-practiced performance, its synergy with those to whom she directs this concentration. It's the glitz and glamour of Hollywood, with only one quirk. 
She is he, and everyone knows it. 
The drag phenomenon has permeated mainstream society. Yet aside from the standard show and drag queen, people cross-dress everyday. Whether it's innocently cross-gendering for a Halloween costume, or the slightly more bizarre-sounding instance of a Minneapolis man who dressed like a waitress while gardening in his backyard, cross-dressing is everywhere. 
It has the potential to cross the boundaries of the political, social and cultur­al, and either be aligned or attacked by them all. Drag queen Dan Savage, the only person to register Republican in the largely Democratic precinct of King County, Wash., not only appeared at the county convention as a delegate, but as the Republican precinct committee officer. Some may wonde.r; if Savage was the traditionally conservative party's saving grace or its worst nightmare. 
Precisely because dragging is so widespread and complex, the confusion between issues of pop-culture and science is an expected one. There are cross-genderers {those who attempt to live life as a member of the opposite sex), transsexuals {those who actually alter themselves surgically to adopt the secondary sex characteristics of the opposite sex), those with transvestic fetishism {a compulsive need to cross-dress in order to achieve sexual arousal), non-disorder cross-dressers (those who simply derive pleasure from wearing one or several articles of clothing of the opposite sex), and lastly, drag queens (who may be any of these types and perform -dressed like 
,.,.,.......,.,.._,..,...,.._.,.__,......,.__,...,_,............, 
HEY KIDS! IT'S ALL HAPPENING AT STEPAN FIELDS TODAY! Sure, it's a trek, but it'll be worth it. 
at 10 a.m., check out the ICC Health Tour's AIR TOYS and collect lots of You could also win a car. 
Stepan, get wet on the other rites of giant Twister game 
burping contests. The be confused with the halls this evening. 
women and usual­ly by lip-syncing ­on stage). Other complex subtleties do exist, but these major categories help psycholo­gists identify any possible dis­orders. 
"Without research, I would say many more people who cross-dress derive enjoyment from it than are disturbed by it," states Susan Harris from the University of Miami, Fla., who will receive both her license and PhD in psychology in June of 1997. What may sep­arate some cross-dressing indi­viduals from others is the dif­ference in the comfort level of the individual. 
She explains, "Since the act itself does not harm others, cross-dressing Is considered a benign disorder. As psycholo­gists, we do not necessarily need to change the pattern, just the discomfort derived from the behavior. It's not about chang­ing them, but helping them to live more comfortably." 
And many do. As the drag scene becomes more accepted, social as well as employment opportunities become increas­ingly available. Lucky Cheng's, an up-scale restaurant with franchises in New York City, 

New Orleans and Miami Beach, claims less notoriety for its cuisine than for its employees. While the chefs are trained gourmets, the waitresses are all glamorous, scantily-clad drag queens. In the midst of waiting tables, they jump on stage or saunter down the aisles, performing numbers under spotlights to entertain the din­ers. For an additional charge, a table can pay to have any waitress sing and dance especially for them. 
On a Sunday night at the Miami Beach location, a group of middle-aged couples approach Lucky Cheng's hostess, inquir­ing about a table and a show. Fantasy and Chyna Girl gra­ciously concede, and between them perform one dance hit and one Disney number. Anything to please the masses. 
Strangely enough, it is the fascination of non­cross-dressing soci­ety with this cul­

ture  that  
keeps  
it alive.  
Just look  
at the  
b 0 X  
office  
for evi­ 
dence.  
A  
glance  
at the  
enter- 
t a i n - 
m e n t  
industry,  
perhaps  
one of the  
m o s f  
revealing  
indicators of  
mainstream  
trends, will reveal  
numerous successfully  
marketed -and even  
Academy Award-winning -films  
with cross-dressers and drag queens as  
their protagonists. "Mrs. Doubtfire," "The  
Crying Game," "Priscilla Queen of the Desert,"  
"To Wong Foo ... ," "Rocky Horror Picture Show,"  
and "The Bird Cage" are just a few popular titles on  
this list lined with dollars.  
So what fuels this growing interest in drag cul­ 
ture? Drag is so old that it's new, and so twisted  
that it's straight. The issues surrounding cross­ 
dressing are not so much sexual as related to  
gender, which increases their level of complexity.  
Gender identity is more fundamental and innate  
than any other personal trait. For this reason,  
manipulation of this inherent characteristic,  
albeit external, is surprising and exciting to the  
average person.  
Dr. Jay P. Paul, a psychotherapist from the University of  
California at San Francisco, wrote that, "Gender identity  
refers to the individual's inner-conviction of their maleness  

or femaleness." Paul continues to explain that gender roles are unstable constructs that vary with culture, social class and age. Sex is biologically inherent; gender is dependent upon social norms. 
This relative scale, as well as the seemingly natural occurrences of cross-dressing throughout history, may contribute to its acceptance today. Recorded accounts of men and women who cross-dressed date back to the ancient Romans, Greeks, and Hebrews, as well as to the medieval Christian era. 
Modern classifications of these acts as "sexual perversions" however, were not developed until the 1800s, and Webster's dictionary dates the origin of the word "homosexual" as 1892, and that of common use of "transvestite" at 1922. These words were not part of the vernacular before, largely because the classifications did not exist as abnormal; gender roles were often perceived as more fluid. 
\ 

As society deals with the relatively sudden shift from the domestic sphere to the
._._..... 


~~,_~--~~~---~-­
AC.CE-NT ­
Tuesday, April 22, 1997 page 9 


the drag queen pheno!f1enon 
I'll's liberation movement, neither sex seems to have a clearly-defined nder role anymore. More women enter the work forr.e and raise their own ildren, and some men seem to be rejcrting their traditional role as the triarch in exchange for something more enjoyable and more attractive. If 
women made the switch, why can't they? 
This question is as interesting as ever, and the answer is pushing out of the urban setting. While most residents of a chaotic, cos­mopolitan city may come to expect such displays, drag queens have not resigned themselves to the "anything goes" environment of the big city. 
This alternative form of entertainment has infiltrated rural areas as well, even in the Midwest, which often boasts the reputation of good ol' wholesome values. Little besides corn surrounds South Bend, Ind., yet in the heart of the town lies The Seahorse-South Bend's very own drag bar. 
The gorgeous, the glamorous, the Seahorse's very own, Tracey Love headlines the shows which include several performers. This 
elicious diva struts onto stage wearing beaded gowns and croons to the usic of Kiss of the Spiderwoman or Cher perhaps -any female singer with ; much style and poise as she. "If I had to choose music, it might be Tina urner or Diana Ross. I love the hard rock of Tina and how you can really get .nky with her. And I love the elegance of Diana." As anyone could see from atching her perform, her favorite clothes are glitzy, beaded gowns. 
Despite her immersion in a relatively different reality than that of most mericans, Tracey relates to an interviewer with ease, like she's telling an old iend a story or a bit of gossip. She talks about training rottweilers and loving 1 shop at Niemann Marcus. 
Although she has undergone partial sex-reassignment surgery, there is othing unnatural about her. She remarks that it's easy to go out in public, .ecause no one even knows. While Tracey admits to experiencing discrimina­ion, this doesn't stop her. The tall, African-Americ'an beauty loves being a lrag queen because of the opportunities to improve. There's always some­
g new she can try. "I grow as a person, in addition to as a performer. is no hardest character or act to do because of my way of thinking. It es my life to always want to be better. I believe in widening every hori-
So if this cosmopolitan attitude seems out of place only 90 miles from :hicago, how about the migration of drag to a predominately Catholic, conser­ative, male-dominated country? Across the Atlantic and the Equator, Chilean rag shows command a sizable attendance in the fashionable Bellavista dis­·ict of Santiago. A show at Bunker, one of the capitol city's gay bars, can last 10re than an hour, with men and women alike sitting at tables or inside cages >r a less obstructed, elevated view. 
The hyper-styled diva will emerge, surrounded by a swarm of handsome, hirtless men, who fawn over the singer in exaggerated gestures of masculini­
1. Although the drag queens probably speak only Spanish, they mouth the rrics of songs by Madonna or Annie Lennox with ease. Yet whether they're onsuming North American eulture or creating their own matters not. They re beautiful. they are entertaining, and the audience screams for more. 
The popularity of dragging presents a unique challenge for the intellectual ;ychological community. What occurs in some cases is the societal glamoriz­g of that which may actually be a disorder. Harris believes that, "For many wple who cross-dress as a symptom of transvestic fetishism, it probably mses confusion that something that causes them distress is becoming preva­nt as a norm." The media present something as artful that, in their own life, ­1uses stress. And it probably doesn't help when a company manufactures rag Queen Barbie as a toy that's good for a few laughs. 
And this is a window into the complexity. The issues surrounding cross­essing are often as ambiguous as the people who do it. A disorder or an tsessive fetish to one may be simply an entertaining game for others. To -eranalyze drag queens for more than they are, or to try to categorize them 
transvestites, transsexuals or even homosexual, would be to remove them )Ill their proper context as viva.cious, glamorous performers. For many, it is career just like being a lawyer or selling insurance. 
While it understandably troubles some who feel that the Jaws of nature are tmehow being tampered with, the focus must be on the expansion of the ind, and the exploration of standard gender roles. It is the drag queens abili­to question and challenge that may be the key to the whole appeal. So as e curtain goes up and the spotlights flare, audiences should just sit back, lax, and enjoy the show. After all, these girls are just trying to have a little 

n. Photo from http://www.sexonline.cybercore.com/tg/dragcel/dragcel.htm 
• 
~--~.........----......------­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 22, 1997 
Bookstore 
continued from page 16 
Someone Who Needs A Sub. The Sixth Man boasts an in­timidating line-up including Ron Powlus, Tom Krug, John Cerasani, and A'Jani Sanders. The other team did not let in­timidation get them down. 
The Sixth Man was being plagued by sporadic shooting. Cerasani missed some easy lay-ups but wowed the crowd with some power moves down low. "Our other guard is in­jured and A'Jani has really stepped up for us," said Cerasani. "We played strong on the inside and did well on the outside. We are the 13th ranked team but we should be ranked first." 
Later in the evening, No. 8 Hoopaholics won a well-con­tested game over a resilient Tossin' Salads squad, which was led by the play of sopho­more Brian Murphy. It was close at the half, but the Hoopaholics wore down their overmatched opponents in the end. 
Also seeing action tonight was No. 11 Downtown Assassins and No. 14 Yin and Yang. Both advanced easily. 
Tomorrow, the round of 64 will commence at 7:30 PM at Stepan. All 32 games will be played at night on all eight courts. 
7:30 
Pearl Necklace Burn & Shoot 
Malicious Prosecution Jerkstore 
SFR2 Serpico 
Sweeter than Candy 
T.B.A. 
It) 
Vanilla Kernals No Dessert 
NBT Villa de Lobos 
If it Stinks... Hoosier Daddy 
If we're not cfancing ... We asked Emily... 
Hollywood Pete, Bill, Ti warm 
Swoosh Ill WAX 
Consuming Fire That's a Big Twinki 
Knocker's Lounge We can drink more 
BW3 Bolivian Yaks Subject to Blackout. 
E.G.O. 5 Guys and their Testy Calls 
San Clemente Team 186 
Vanilla Thunder WPO II 
SWANK64 
Games scheduled Tonight at Stepan 
9:45 
And 1 A Panda, aKoala, and 3 other guys that eat bush 
Peef Uprising (Every Lady's) Dream Team 
Corby's The Curve 
Bring out the Gimp Ill Boeing 777 and 4 other guys who can't get off the ground 
Yin & Yang Pants 
Dos Geses BYE 
Show me the$ We usually play the old guys... 
The Sixth Man Team 507 
Peter Cilella!The Observer 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA·  3-4 BDf)M HOUSE.  '81 OLDS CUTLASS,  I NEED GRADUATION TIX!!  To the BP "Trash Can" Regatta  
NOTICES  TIONS Positions available evenings  AVAIL AUG. 2 FULL BATHS, APPL. FURN.  4-DR, 1-0WNER, NEW MOTOR. CALL 273-2241 .  WILL PAY BIG$$!! X2369  Boat-Where did you go?! You never  
4-9 Mon-Fri or 10-6:30 on week­ ATIACH. 2-CAR GARAGE & OFF­ I need 1 graduation ticket. Please  came back ... we had nothing to  
THE COPY SHOP  ends from April through  STREET PARKING.  MAC COMPUTER w/ printer & eth·  call4-1021.  race for! And after all that we did  
LaFortune Student Center  August/September. Our busy call  683-6591.  erne!: Performa 6214 w/ CD ROM.  for you!  
Phone 631-COPY  center is looking for candidates with  Purchased last year from NO for  STEVE MILLER  
Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  excellent phone skills and a desire  SUBLET at COLLEGE PARK  $2000. Asking $950 obo. Amy  The Four Oarsmen from Flanner  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  to satisfy our customers.  $175/mo  x3525.  CENTER STAGE  
Wed.: 7:30 a.m. • Midnight  Dependability an absolute must.  Part Furnished; 2 Bed/2 Bath  FLOOR SEATS  Queen Bee??? You should hear  
Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  Starting pay is $8.00 per hour,  .5 mfrom NO  Computer For Sale-Cheap  what I call you guys when you're  
Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  $9.00 per hour on weekends. Apply  Call 243-9198  243-9357  FIRST 10 ROWS  not around. Love, Jillian  
Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m.  at Qualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­ 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921  Going abroad? Do you need hous­ !@#@$%%"%.&%&"$%#$@#  272-7233  PRINT FROM DISK  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Louise St., South Bend, IN 46615.  ing for spring semester next year?  PRINT FROM DISK  
We support a drug free workplace.  Call 243-9430 or 1540 for informa­ APARTMENT SALE  $18 lower level Steve Miller tickets  PRINT FROM DISK  
!!!!!!!!!!'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  EOE  tion.  still available for a 4/25 concert at  Very high-quality full-color output is  
IRISH GARDENS  CALL JULIE @ 273-4486  the JACC. Call Ashleigh at 1-7757  now available at THE COPY SHOP  
Available -Part-time Retail Sales  Staying for summer school?  and leave a message with how  in the LaFortune Student Center.  
Still accepting applications  Clerk  Apartment at College Park for rent.  !@$%#$%&""&$#$@$#@&%$  many you need. Brought to you by  Bring in your computer disk to print  
for the 1997-98 school year.  Pandora's Books 808 Howard -Just  Good Location, Parking,  SUB.  your files. We support PowerPoint,  
off of Notre Dame Ave.  Nice/Clean, Sun  Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker,  
See us in the Basement  Call 233-2342 10AM-5Pm  Deck,Washer/Dryer. Call 243-9360.  88 Honda Accord, LX, air, Am/Fm  and many many more types of files.  
of Lafortune for an application.  cassette, great condition, $4400.  NEEDED  It only costs a $1 plus the regular  
IRISH GARDENS  FOR RENT  2 BDRM, 2 Bath, W/D, Dishwasher, Micro. Close to campus. Suitable  219-273-3061  2 graduation tix CALL LIZ @232-7839  color copy price for the first ten files, then just the regular color  
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  for grad student or Prof. in Jamison  82 VW Pop-Up camper, great con­ copy price for over ten files. We  
ILOST & FOUND I  Near Campus Homes for 97-98 232-2595  Condos. Available June 1 thru May 31. $800. (818)968-7030.  dition, sleeps 4, kitchen. $4,700. 219-273-3061  PERSONAL  can print directly onto overhead transparencies too! PRINT FROM DISK  
LOST-Silver Olympus Stylus  Apt. for 11 wks. V. close to ND  FOR SALE  TWIN BED FOR SALE BEST OFFER  FAX IT FAST!!!  PRINT FROM DISK PRINT FROM DISK  
Camera  (May -Aug), $65 per Wk. Call  CALL CRISTINA  Sending & Receiving  
on April 12 Reward-call Cas 4-11 07  Jihad 277-3254  HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER  243-9172  at  The countdown started at 40 ... now  
Great nbrhd, near NO  THE COPY SHOP  you're down to 4! You've survived  
Lost -green bookbag with diskette  5 Bdrms. in private home. Near  2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500  SOFA-5 Sections, $50 OBO  LaFortune Student Center  so far, now wake up and hang in  
box, COs, class notebooks inside.  campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of  288.7862  CALL 288-2314'  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  there.  
Lost at NOH on Mon. Apr. 14th.  all facilities. 225/mo. 232-2794  FAX IT FAST!!!  
Very important.  Paul.  Ethernet card for Macintosh  Lori, I think that question is best  
Call Paul  89' Dog. Caravan. V. Good  Powerbook series 1 00-180 and  answered with a list of who I  
at x2018  Two NO grads ('95) are looking for  Condition. $ 1690 o/bo. Call Jihad  loft with 4 shelves · call Kathy  wouldn't Ask J.  
one or two others (M or F) to share  277-3254  @ x4171.  Family Needs Graduation  
LOST:  a HUGE 4 bdrm apt in Chicago for  Tickets-Please Help!  The end is nigh. Beware, for the  
silver lacrosse stick bracelet  the summer. Call 773/695-2545 for  •FURNITURE-Futon $100 Chair  Christian 273-6967  NOH Militia cometh. Big Brother is  
If found please call Colleen @  info.  $50 273-8673  STEVE MILLER  watching -Southern "man," you'd  
273-1130  better keep your head up.  
NEED TO SUBLET AN APART­ GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from  CENTER STATE  
My name is Yu-zhi Cui. My pass­ MENT THIS SUMMER? WE HAVE  pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax,  FLOOR SEATS  ADOPTION  Congratulations on your engage­ 
port from the People's Republic of  A TOWNHOUSE AT TURTLE  Repo's, REO's. Your Area. Toll  1ST 10 ROWS  Happily married couple promises  ment, fabulous roommate Tracy!  
- China has been lost. It is no longer valid.  CREEK! CALL 273·9829  Free (1)800-218-9000 Ext. H-2013 for current listings.  272-7233  love, warmth & a secure future for your baby. Respect for you & your  Liam is a lucky man! -Love, Heather  
No.458870  3 BDRM HOUSE 814 N. ST.  decision. Expenses paid.  
LOUIS. AVAIL SUMMER & FALL  Sofa, Dining rm table: good 4  Desk w/Lamp & Chair, $25; Bike  Joni & Shep 1-800-528-2344  Happy 21st Jim Sur! In honor of  
WANTED  '97. CALL 234-1440.  dorm/apt. Mike 243-9224  w/helmet & lock. $30; Bedframe w/mattress, $15; Kitchen Table w/4  your birthday, I'm going to let you win an argument about social poli­ 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR  Chairs  PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­ cy.  
Family seeks loving, responsible,  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  FOR SALE: 10' Burmese Python  AGE. Collegiate Student Storage  xo, your favorite feminist  
fun person to help care for 2 chil­ and 7.5' Albino Burmese  offers On Campus and Off Campus  
dren while we move. Approx. 5/15 thru 6/1 0; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Great temperments. $200 OBO, cage and heat  TICKETS  Pick up and Delivery, Boxes, Insurance, Tape and Packing  HAC, some of us have been check· ing out Dan for a while.  
hr. References and own transporta­ 2773097  included.  Materials Included. Call Now to  
tion needed.  Call Jeff at 283-0739 for details.  Reserve Your Space at 800 3  Mark, who's the dark who actually  
Sue 233·6657  SUMMER RENTALS  Need Graduation Tickets  STORE 9 (800 378-6739}.  looked up callipygian? But you still  
AVAILABLE  FOR SALE:  Desparately. Please help!  are! ·  
WANTED: MOUNTAIN BIKE­ HOUSES CLOSE TO CAMPUS •  NEW 27" TV, 2 ENTERTAINMENT  Brian-287-4876  IRISH ACCENT  -The Lunatic  
Will pay some $$$ David-234-1840  WILL TAKE MULTIPLE STU­ UNITS, 4 COUCHES! CALL  Thank You  (that scrambled comedy improv  
DENTS­ CARLA AT 243-9282!  troupe) has its  K-phil 'er up! -me  
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEMO­ LOW SUMMER RATES­ LAST SHOW OF THE YEAR  
RIBELIA WANTED TICKET STUBS  UTILITIES INCLUDED, WASH­ 93 HONDA CIVIC EX. Loaded:  Do you have an extra GRADUA­ TONIGHT!!! And as always it's  I'm all about walking through the  
PROGRAMS JERSEYS CASH  ERS/DRYERS,  Power sun-roof, windows, locks.  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  ONLY A DOLLAR I Be at the  kitchen, and laying on the  
PAID 2773097  ALARM SYSTEMS  Air, Cruise, AM/FM/Tape, ABS,  Please call Paige at X4011  Library Aud by 9:00 to see a singu­ megabed. Mo -I'm dissapointed  
AVAILABLE JUNE 1  5-speed, Air bag, Alarm. 60,000  larly comical performance.  that you didn't wear the contraption.  
Needed: Nanny. Nice little girls.  OR SOONER.  miles, two new tires. Buy at dealer  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  
Nice house. Nice neighborhood.  CALL 674-2571 MARK KRAMER,  cost and save!  WILL PAY$$$.  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!  "Hey buddy. You falling in love with  
273-3010.  DOMUS PROPERTIES  $9,000. Jim, 289-1992.  ETHAN 4-1659.  CALL JENNY AT 243-9282  the wall or something?--Gooooo!!!"  

Tuesday, April22, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Privrel. challenging." _ Zalinski and Velasco. in the final played a major role Velasco continued her win­After defeating Boston Together, they defeated in our success."
Champs ­
ning streak, this time defeating College, the Irish faced Miami Miami's Selin Nassi and With the tournament victory, 
continued from page 16 
earlier. the team defeated the Eagles, 9-0. There was no change in outcome as the Irish won easily again. 
In doubles play, the Irish won two matches to claim the point. The only win for the Eagles came in No. 3 doubles where the team of Courtney Haskell and Kelley Olson lost to Carey Ann Denefrio and Kim Arbuckle, 8-4. In singles, Hall continued to impress with a 6­
1. 6-4 win over Barbara 
Recruits 
continued from page 16 
about Martin Ingelsby's basket­ball skills. It has just been his body that has worried scouts. 
In 191J6. the 5-foot-11, 165­pound point guard averaged 
19.1 points, six assists and three steals a game. He also hit 82 percent of his free throws and led Delaware County in three-point field goals with 63. 
He was named the Delco Daily Times Player of the Year, selected to Pennsylvania's sec­ond all-state team, and listed as one of the top 10 "most fun­damentally sound players" in the nation by The Sporting News. 
lngelsby's team, Archbishop Carrol in Philadelphia, was even ranked as high as number 12 on USA Today's national top 25 before they lost three of their last four games and ended the season with a 28-4 record. 
Yet, the main complaint against lngelsby still remains-the Eagles' Mercedes del Valle in two sets, 6-4, 6-1. In No. 6 doubles, junior Darcie Sweet defeated her opponent in straight sets, 6-1, 6-2. After the fourth point, the win was given to the Irish. 
"The Eagles were definitely a better team than the one we had played a week earlier," Gates commented. "The first time we played them, their No. 2 player was out due to injury. When we saw that she was back for this match, we knew it was going to be a lot more 
his body. He is not an athlete and carries a slim frame, both of which are ill suited for the Big East. 
One reporter in Philadelphia, who covers high school bas­ketball, confirmed that Ingelsby will have trouble guarding the Big East guards. Yet, he was quick to point out that Ingelsby has not yet met failure and has shown the ability to overcome any limitations. 
Hans Rasmussen: After av­eraging only 10 points and seven rebounds a game as a junior, Hans Rasmussen was making progress until a -stress fracture in his tibia sidelined him towards the end of his senior season. 
"It was, at first, thought to be tendinitis," Rasmussen's coach Steve Halligan explained. "But the pain kept getting worse to the point it was hard for him to run up and down the court. We didn't think it was worth risk­ing his future. But he's been hitting the weights and getting ready for Notre Dame." 
In 1996, the 6-foot-9, 205 ­pound center averaged 15.5 

in the final round in a rematch of last year's tournament final. Last year, Notre Dame won its first conference title, beating the Hurricanes 4-0. This time around, there was no revenge for the Huricanes as the Irish posted yet another 4-0 win to claim the title. 
The only bright spot for the Hurricanes came at No. 1 dou­bles where the team of Caroline Hora and Victoria Hunt defeat­ed Hall and Gates, 8-1. The Irish won the other two match­es soundly led by the duo of 
points and 10.5 rebounds per game. 
Leviticus Williamson: Recruiting analyst Bob Gibbon said he had never heard of him. Fans responded with a collec­tive "who?" MacLeod just shook his head because his eyes said. "If they only knew." 
After averaging 14 points and 11 rebounds for Spring High School in Houston, Texas in 1995, Williamson exploded as a senior. 
The 6-foot-7, 190-pound for­ward dominated Houston's largest class of basketball by averaging 23.9 points, 12.3 rebounds, and 4.1 blocks a game. He ranked second in the Houston area in scoring and rebounding and ranked first in blocked shots. 
He was named first-team all­state and was listed among the Houston Chronicle's Texas top 20 list. 
According to scouts in Texas, Williamson has a good outside shot and outstanding leaping ability. He can rebound and play great defense because of his quickness. 
Their only concerns revolve around whether Williamson is more of an athlete than a bas­ketball player, and if being the only good player on a bad team (14-13) made him look better than he actually is. 
All-Star Tournament: 
Ingelsby, Rasmussen and 
Williamson can be seen at the 
Joyce Center this Sunday at 2 
p.m. playing in the Coca-Cola All-American game. The Irish recruits will be playing for the East team and will face the West team featuring Indiana's blue-chip recruit Luke Recker. And for those wondering how good center Adam Allenspach actually is -his team will play at 4 p.m. 

THE LEWIS HALL STAFF~ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE NOTRE DAM£ BIOLOGY CLUB AND PRE-PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY~ 
PROUDLY PRESENT 
••• HARVEY A. BENBIR 
N.D. PROFESSOR OF GENETICS & 
ADJUNCT PROFESSOR OF MEDICAL GENETICS AT I.U. SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
DELIVERING A PRESENTATION ON 
''WOMEN, GENETICS, & ETHICS" 
BASEMENT Of LEWIS HALL TUESDAY, APRIL 22 7:30 P.M. 
ALL ARE INVITED TO ATTEND RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 
Meredith Laughlin, 8-4. In sin­gles action, Velasco won her third singles match of the weekend with another win over Nassi, 6-4, 6-3. Zalinski won in No. 4 singles against Laughlin in straight sets, 6-2, 6-2. 
Olson was another double winner for the Irish with a win at No. 5 singles over the Hurricanes' Jennifer Jolyn, 6-0, 6-1. Earlier, she and Haskell defeated Kristina Bain and Jolyn to claim the point. 
"Miami really came out fired up this time," Velasco said. "They had a much better team then last year. Fortunately, our team has improved as well." 
For the team, the victory was just as sweet as the first time. 
"This title really means a lot to me," Zalinski said. "For most of the others, it was their second in a row, but it's the first one since I've been here." 
"Although everyone played a key role in this tournament," Louderback remarked, "we were lucky that our No. 2 dou­bles team was able to compete. We were holding Velasco out because of a sore elbow that she received last month during the most difficult part of the season. Fortunately, she was back to full strength in the tournament. Her performance the Irish improved to 17-10 on the season. Along the way, they have amassed a seven match winning streak, six of which came by way of a shutout. 

To add to the honors, Louderback was named Big East Coach of the Year. 
"He really deserved it," Velasco said. "He's a great motivator, and he worked hard throughout the year. He was a major reason for our turn­around late in the season." 
"It was a real honor," Louderback remarked. "But I'd have to say it was the team's success that won it for me." 
The next challenge for the Irish will be hosting the NCAA Midwest Regional during the second week of May. 
"We won't get a call until next Monday on what our seed will be," Louderback said, "but our regional matches will defi­nitely be played at home because we're hosting the Midwest Regional. The only question is the seeding, which I think we'll be somewhere in the top three." 
"I think we'll be a No. 2 seed this season," Velasco said. "If we just keep our momentum and maintain our confidence, I think we have a good chance of winning the regional this year." 
ft>ttmote tJifo, call coach Stark at ~-5983. lec:Subrlts will be hiring two 
·· ··· ti.!ne,and 
·to life­
Joseph Lake 
v~· ..~~~.~;; "'';"'"'''~. Contact 

ttecspcJrts World Wide Web is now accepting student who .......~ .... ~·"""le for main~ cSports home­pgsition does "'"'" ··rll-iei'r experience with d maintaining 
s. All interested ·· shoti.l~eome by theotis office· to complete 

an applic::ttion. The position is ·r. the 1997~1.?98 academic 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Campus View Apartments  
We are now taking applications for NEXT YEAR!!  -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air -24 hour laundry  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartments Available for your selection For more information, call272-1441 Summer leases Available  

. 

-
~-----..----·---~----~-~ -~-----------~---­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 22, 1997 
-
• MEN's TENNIS 
Hurricanes steal title from Notre Dame 
ByJIM ZALETA Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame tennis team took a disappointing second place in the Big East tourna­ment over the weekend. The Irish were upset in the cham­pionship hy No. 27-ranked Miami. It was a repeat of the finals matchup last season, but with different results. 
The Irish took an early lead in the championship match by winning the doubles point with two wins but fell in four straight singles matches to lose the match and receive second in the tournament. 
Freshmen Ryan Sachire and Trent Miller won the No. 2 doubles match 8-6. The pair has a chance to perform in the doubles tournament in the NCAA Finals in May. Junior Jakub Pietrowski and sopho­more Brian Patterson will be very likely to participate in the tournament. Senior Ryan Simme and junior Danny Rothschild won at No. 3 to secure the doubles point for the Irish. It went to a tiebreaker, but the Notre Dame duo was able to pull through to win the match. 
The Irish fell in the front three singtes spots, and No. 6 Sachire and Pietrowski suf­fered losses. The Irish have not lost both top spots since their victory against Virginia Commonwealth in the Blue-
Gray Natjonal Chi$s · ·• Jip:lior Eric Enloe and me were also defeated, while Patterson and Rothschild were winning .-their matches wbeJ;i play :Was suspended due to the 
Hurricanes victory. 
Saturday, thelrish e~sily 
defeated Rutger~l 4-0. The 
Irish captured all three dou­
bles points. 
Senior co-capitain M~rco 
Magnano filled in for Miller 
and paired up with Sachire. in 
the the No. 3 spot. The pair 
easily defeated Jared Morris 
and Ryan Shockley. 
Simme, Patterson, and 
Rothschild picked up individ­
ual wins for the Irish, complet­
ing the four points needed for 
a victory. Simme easily 
defeated Morris 6·1, 6-0, dom­
inating the senr~ .and notlet­
ting Morris gain control of the 
volley. Patterson and 
Rothschild also won in two 
sets. 
Earlier, the Irish easily 
defeated the University of 
Connecticut in the quarterff­
nals oil Friday afternoon,· 4-0. 
With the top seed, Notre Dame 
received a bye in the qualify­
ing round. Th~ defending 
champions came .out quickly 
and won the doubles point 
with . victo~.ies _ by 
Patters.on/Pi(!trowski and 
Simme!Rothschild. 
Simme rllled in at No. 2· for 
Pietrowski and defeated Drew 
Broderick, 6·1, 6-3; 
-
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 
• BASEBAll 

Wolverines look to slow Irish 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sporrs Editor 
The Irish are coming off of a very successful weekend in which they swept a three game series from Big East foe Villanova to bring their con­ference record to 10-4. This afternoon, they head to Ann Arbor, Mich. to take on the Wolverines. 
Although Notre Dame and Michigan have only begun to play one another on a regular basis as of the last two seasons, Irish third baseman J.J. Brock feels that there is a definite excitement surrounding the match up. 
"They have traditionally had good teams," Brock noted. "Last year was a good game and with that kind of atmo­sphere with all the fans, it should be a fun game. It's ex­citing that we're starting up this new baseball rivalry." 
And why not? 
With Michigan returning to the football schedule this fall, there is no better time to push the age-old rivalry to an all­time high. 
In 1996, the Wolverines fin­ished fourth in the Big Ten with a conference record of 17­ll,but finished just 24-30 over­all and fell to Notre Dame by a score of 8-3 at Eck Stadium. 
Hopefully for the Irish, the showdown with their foes from Michigan will indeed provide some added incentiv11 to cap­ture their 13th road win of 1997. 
To elate, Notre Dame is 29-13 and has won 20 of its last 22 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

The Irish hope to continue their winning ways as they travel to Ann Arbor today to play rival Michigan. 
games but is just 12-12 on the With 11 games left on the road. schedule before the Big East 
Right now though. it is tournament begins, the Irish enough that they are simply still have an opportunity to winning baseball games. reach the 40-win mark in the 
"We're not winning big," regular season. commented Brock. "But we've "Hopefully when the injured got some pitchers who are in-players return." said Brock, jured and trying to recover. It's "we can bring it all together nice when you're still winning with a healthy team." (despite the injuries). With all of their players 
I guess it's been a combina-healthy, the Irish will certainly tion of good defense and dutch be a tough team to beat down hitting." the stretch. 
WEDNESDAY NIGHT! 


NOTRE DAME 
vs. 


NORTHWESTERN 
7 PM, E(:l< STADIUM 
• 
FREE ND collectors hats to the first 250 fans 

• 
$1.00 hotdogs, popcorn, and pop 

• 
First pitch thrown out by Tony Rice, member of1988 National Campionship football team 

• 
See the Irish outfitted in '50s uniforms 

• 
1950s cars parked outside ~~e S!lJdium 


.:.:·;m-.N:\,··· ,/H:~b~:f: 
• One lucky fan will win a FREE mountain bike 
Tuesday, April22, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
The Work ofTaize 
(A special issue ofLetter from Taize, which was translated into 58 different languages, offers some insights into Brother Roger's interest and pursuit ofCommunion in Christ. Brother Roger searches for ways to heal divisions among Christians and to promote reconciliation. The following description ofBrother Roger's vision is paraphrased from this document, which was published as a discussion guide for young people at Taize during the current calendar year.) 
Brother Roger's service of reconciliation found its first expression as World War II began. Among the first persons he reached out to, to offer refuge, were Jews whom he sheltered. Brother's grandmother had offered a similar service to refugees during World War I in northern France. This woman took it as a personal task to reconcile her Protestant faith with the faith of the Catholic Church. 
At first, brothers who joined Brother Roger in the early years of his ministry were from different Protestant backgrounds, but eventually Catholics also joined. By its very existence, the Community at Taize embodied a reconciliation among divided Christians. The fact that members came from more than twenty countries hinted at unity among separated peoples as World War II ended. Among the first groups of brothers living outside Taize were groups working with young people in Eastern European countries. 
The community at Taize has served increasing numbers of young people, sometimes as many as 6,000 each week, for the past forty years. These people participate in meetings that begin on Sunday and last a week. Three times each day, guests at Taize join the brothers at the Church of the Reconciliation for prayer. After prayer and song, brothers remain in the Church to listen to those who wish to speak with them. The cross as a symbol of those undergoing trial is honored at Friday prayer. The Saturday prayer is a festival of light, celebrated in honor of the Resurrection. 
The young people are asked to reflect on the following text: 
"Though Christ is united to every human being without 
exception, he awaits a simple response from each one of us. 
Everyone is here to discover or rediscover a meaning for their 
life, to find new vitality, to prepare themselves to take on 
responsibilities when they return home... " 
During a visit to Taize about ten years ago, Pope John Paul II said that "one passes through Taize as one passes close to a spring of water. The visitor stops, quenches his thirst and continues on his way ... (The brothers) want, in prayer and silence, to drink the living water promised by Christ, tOknow his joy, to discern his presence, to respond to his call, then to set out again to witness to his love and to serve...brothers and sisters in parishes, schools, universities and in all workplaces." 
The work of Brother Roger and Taize takes on special importance as the year 2000 approaches and younger generations are called to live out the mission of reconciliation. 
(The full eight-page text of this letter will be distributed at the 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Thursday, April 24, at 7:30p.m., 
when the 1996 Notre Dame Award is presented to Brother Roger.) 
-Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 


The University of Notre Dame 
cordially invites you to attend a special evening celebrating the life and ministry of 

Brother Roger ofTaize 
1996 Notre Dame Award recipient 
Thursday 

April 24, 1997 
7:15 p.m. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Taize prayer and song led by the Notr.e Dame Folk Choir 
7:30p.m. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Prayer service and presentation of the Notre Dame Award to Brother Roger, followed by his reflections 
8:15 p.m. 
Corby Hall 
Reception for all present with an opportunity to meet Brother Roger 

-
-
.... 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS ..-.lACROSSE 

Irish look ahead after defeat 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
All good things must come to an end. The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team dodged the truth of this aphorism for as long as they could, but eventually suc­cumbed, 6-5, to No. 11 Massachusetts Sunday. 
"It definitely was a tough loss," said Irish sophomore defender Ray Cross, whose team fell to 7-2. 'They were a very, very good team." 
Massachusetts utilized a sti­fling defense to control the po­tent Irish offense and hold them scoreless for the opening 40 minutes of the game. 
"We simply didn't have any opportunities in the first half," said sophomore midfielder Stephen Taylor. "We didn't have the ball a whole lot." 
That's because Massachusetts played an effective, conserva­tive game that centered on ball control. 
Sophomore attackman Mike McKeefrey, following a great feed from Ken Sussi, put his Minutemen on the board just as the first quarter ended. They went on to score four more unanswered goals against the beleaguered Irish. 
Brendan Glass, whom Taylor described as "an excellent play­
-

gaad
-
gaad 
gaad 

gaad 
er," scored with 11:05 remain­ing in the half, increasing the deficit to two goals. 
Just 30 seconds later, McKeefrey tallied his second goal of the game following a pass from Glass. Two more Minutemen goals left the Irish trailing 5-0 at half-time. 
"We just didn't come out on our game right away," said Cross of the slow start. "I don't think that it was anything in particular that we did or didn't do. We just came out slowly and they took advantage of that." 
"They also shot the ball very well in the first half," added Taylor. 
Notre Dame, however, came roaring back in the second half. After giving up their sixth goal, the Irish got on the scoreboard with 4:28 remaining in the third quarter, courtesy of junior mid­fielder Burke Hayes. 
Sophomore attackman Chris Dusseau and junior midfielder Dan Butler also added goals, cutting the deficit to 6-3. 
Hayes and Dusseau each tal­lied their second goal of the game in the fourth quarter, bringing the Irish within 1 goal with 8:31 left i.n the contest. The equalizer, however, eluded the Irish as the Minutemen held on for a 6-5 victory. 
"I thought we played a solid second half," said Cross. 
"No one is hanging his head because we came back with a great effort in the second half," Taylor stated. "It's not like it was a terrible loss for us." 
Where do the Irish go from here? They have two games left, including the season finale against Harvard on Sunday. 
"Harvard is a great team, and we're looking forward to com­peting against them," stated Cross. 
More important is the Ohio State game, which closes the conference season for the Irish. The Irish must win the game to advance to the NCAA tourna­ment at the end of the season. 
"Ohio State is definitely a team that we can beat, and we have to beat them to get into the tournament. If we get in, 

The Observer/Brandon Candura we may even see Massachusetts The men's lacrosse team (shown here against Hobart) suffered a dis­again," commented Cross. appointing loss against Massachusetts as itslate rally fell short. 
MEET YOUR NEW RESEARCH ASSISTANT: 






''FirstSearch'' 
On Trial until Apri/30, 1997 
The University Libraries ofNotre Dame invite you to search our newest online reference database, FirstSearch. 
FirstSearch is a collection of over 60 databases covering a wide range of academic disciplines. For e~ple, with FirstSearch if your area is the sciences, BIOSIS, GenSci Abstracts, MEDLINE, GeoRef, GEOBASE, and EnvironmentS are just a few of the indexes that can assist you with your research. Search business and economic literature by using the EconLit Database or the ABIIINFORM, a major index for articles related to business. Dissertation Abstracts, FactSearch, a database to current statistics on a variety of topics, and databases in the areas ofthe arts and humanities are readily available. FirstSearch also gives you immediate access to the holdings of20,000 libraries worldwide via WorldCat. In addition, newspaper articles, general periodicals and some full-text materials can be accessed via FirstSearch. 
After trying FirstSearch, the Libraries would appreciate your comments in two areas: the coverage and content ofthe indexes and the access software and its features. Also, after the trial period the University Libraries may choose to subscribe to one or more of the 60 databases. FirstSearch and an e-mail link to enter your comments can be reached through the Libraries' homepage. 
The URL is: 

http://www .nd.ed u/-ndlibs/iac.h tm 
.. 
Tuesday, April22, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Cl:l.LIIIUTILS 1\0RN ON TillS I>AY: <.kn Carnphl'll, ChMlntlt· l~.w. Eddi~· 1\llwrt, j.Kk i"\iciHl\~un 
!>FAR I:Ct.ENIJ\. :vir f>.Hinn, born Jurw II. lY6lJ, all2:20a.m., .md I Jt:it llUT )Oh~ in l'MJy• )<lllll,lr)' ,md h,l\'L' ~larll'd our nwn lL•chnology hll'>lllL"··"· So f.u, \\'l',\'l' m.ldL' a number of con­lclCI~ cmd thing..; clrl' going lnir\y \<\'l'll. I'm cunuu~ (l., tu LHir comp.llibilll)' both pL'r"on<~ll ~· .1nd f'~rofe.,.,iona\1 y ond whPlhl'r lhl'rl' i~ ilnything !hat r "hould p.1y o;ppcial clltl'ntinn to. I w.l~ born on AprillH, 196H, .1112:20 p.m. 
Arit·~j(;t•mini 
DEAR ARIES/GEMINI: If you keep the personal aspect out of this union,
MIKE PETERS 
it should be just fine. If you decide to get intimate, I feel that it could head towards disaster. The sign Ge­mini falls in an area of your chart that deals with people who can help you get ahead. However, when you bring passion into the picture, it ap­pears to be fast, furious and short' lived. Your chart is excellent for busi­ness, so please take my advice and don't mix business with pleasure. You are up for romance this year, and if you let this Gemini into your life you will miss the opportunity to meet someone who could be poten­tially great for you at a personal level. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): You may be overly emotional about legal matters. Older indi\'idual~ mav have problems that thev JUSt can't handle without your help.
SCOTT ADAMS 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Spend ltme \·vilh the one~ vou lo\'e. You mav have an emotiona( problem on yoUr
TO GET YOUR STOCK handt' if you han• neglected }'Our pcr­~onal respon<;ibil1t1e:-..
OPTION51 SII"\PL"t' 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): li yoll 
SIGN THIS UPOft..TEO 

GOOD NE.W5 
A.BOUT '<OUR COI'-\PEN5ft..TION 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
E 
TWE~T"t' PERCENT OF 8 
YOUR PA.'Y WILL NOW 
oi
'g 
BE IN TI-lE FORM OF STOCK OPTIONS
~ 
IN51EA.O OF CA.SH!
·;: 
~ 
58 Kind of cereal 62 Shade of red 63 Conception 64 Bizarre 65 Bronte heroine 66 Pre-1821 
Missouri, e.g. Abbr. 67 He had Scarlett fever 
DOWN 
1 Uncle of note 2 New Deal prog. 3 Stream deposit 4 "I can't--" 
(Stones refrain) 5 Morton product 6 "Rocky II," e.g. 7 Diabolical a Due halved 9Wordsof 
assistance 10 "I--" (ancient Chinese text) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Record again 
12 Where to find 
Eugene 34 R.N.'s offering 
13 Awaken 36 Send 
18 Early Shirley 37 Trompe 1'-­
role 38 Stretch 
22 Signed up for 41 He KO'd Quarry, 
23 U.N 's 10/26/70 
Hammarskjold 42 Asian holiday 
24 Former polit. 43 Tipple 
cause 44 "Didja ever 
26--ofthe wonder ...?" 
Unknowns humorist 
28 Like some 45 Successful 
greeting cards escapee 
32 Nine-digit 47 Incarnation 
number, maybe 48 Spanish 
33 Ultimate point Surrealist 

Jllll Ill ol ll'\\' t•xtr.l \hl\11"" ,ll \\ t•ll-. :· wtm't ~\l unnPiln·d You (·,"'n lnnnu 
J,11c Lllllll"cKh cllld Jool.. IIllO fm.ll\n,li 
iiH'l'"lllll'lll" 
CANCEl( (june 22-july 22): ~l'""d timl' With voung..,ll'r-> who c~1n bl'IU'til from vou1: knnwll•dgl'. You will h,l\'t clllll l;l tlfll'r hldcl\'. 
LEO (j u I y 2:i-A ug. 23): Y<~u ,md vour malt' m<~y h.l\'l' .1 major ...qu.ll'· bil' H \'llll h.l\'l' lwt·n n1rtatinu., Ch.lll· nL•I \'~lur l'ffnrt~ intn milking \'tlUr lon•f fl'l'l dl'sirahh·. · 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22l: Y<~u hc1ve hl get out and rub elbow ... with thos<.· in high plan$. You can fL'Cl'i\'t· help achieving your ~oals it ytlU ca11 present your thoughts to thl' righ! people. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Don·\ buy expensive items from friend~ or acquaintances. You must channel your thoughts into getting alwad at work. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 221: You 

will find that your hard work i' pay­
ing off. The household jobs \'OU com­
plete today will pay off when unex­
pected company drops by. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): 

You need a rest. A quiet day siltmg b\ 
the fire v-:ith a good bouk will .... u!.fict• 
Consider doing ~omething r~l.1\ing 
with children. 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan 20): 

This is not the time to lend a friend 
money. Don't contribute excessi\·ely t<, 
organizations just to impres~ others. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 18): A 

family member mav be errahc, cau<,­
ing g'rief for you todav. Talk to them 
reasonably. Ultimatums will backfin·, 
causing depression and discord 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20l: Visit 

with friends or relatives. You can dn 
something especially nice for an older 
person who hasn't been feeling well 
Creative pursuits will be admired. 
Born Today: You'\·c got the ideas and the know-how this vear, but It you decide to lt't your stubborn nature g~. in the way, you will not accomplish the
EMPLO'lMENT WI-\Y OOE5 

success that iS within your reach. Don't refuse to compromi~. 
AGREEMENT. GOOD NEWS FEEL LIK.E A MUGGING? 
) 

, 
_AI} 
51 Certain 56 Composer investment. Stravinsky informally 
59 Ending with quiet 
52 More 60 N.Y. C. subway competent 
&1 Modern 
53 Jesse who lost information to Ronald source, with Reagan in 1970 "the" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are av2ilable by touch-tone phone: 1-900--'20-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 



PLAN··· 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Certatn drapes 
6 Atlantic food 
fish 
10 Gator's ktn 
14 Cop---­
(confess for a lighter sentence) 
15 White-tailed flier 16 Deli offering 11 Colt 45, e.g. 19 List member 20 "That's a lie I" 21 Household 2370's-80's 
robotic rock 
group 
25 The United States, metaphorically 
27 Uris hero 
28 DarJce, 1n Dijon 
I 1-\t>..TE GOOD 
~EWS ABOUT M'Y COMPEN­5ft..TION PLAN. 
) 
29 Member of the 500 HR club 
30 Rock tmpresario Brian 
31 Surgical fabric 33 Ant. in dialect 35 "Texaco Star 
Theater" host 39 Cut down 40 Brilltance 43 High dudgeon 46Mat-­47 Go on to say 49 "Bravo!". 50 It once settled 
near Pompeii 53 Part of a whole 54 Kangaroo 
movements 55 Hayfield activity 57 Prefix with 
China 


-
Coming in '98 
.. 



SPORTS 

page 16 Tuesday, April22, 1997 
-
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Recruits show 
•

promise 
M
aybe football does overshadow basket­ball. Maybe the alloo: star athlete can't be the all­star student. Maybe the coaching staff cart'trecrliiL Or maybe the administration w o n ' t .-------, allow them to recruit. 
There is no doubt that re­cently, the athletic depart­ment has Thomas Schlidt p 1 a. c e d SeniorSp<ms Writer 
tremen­dous pressure on coach John MacLeod to sign the break~ through recruit. But chang­ing water into wine is the Messiah's job, not 
MacLeod's. · 
Over the past four years, the Notre Dame basketball recruit has averaged an SAT of 1035. Indiana's recruits averaged 851. Even acade­mic and basketball titan Duke 'admits a minimal qual­ifier every year. 
And then, bow do you sell a program that hasthe sta­bility of a handshake? Every year, whena ree:fuit as..l<;s MacLeod if he'll be the coach for the next four years, all MacLeod can do is. smile ·and shrug. AU the assurance MacLeod has is a handshake. A ha11dshake e<ru.als a yeitr< of coaching. And maybe•if he does well, a hint of a future handshake as welL 
How do you explain this to a recruit: "Well, when ath­letic director Mike Wadsworth shook my hand last month, he also gave me a wink and said 'do well.' So I think I got three years. I mean, a wink has got to be worth at least two. years. Don't you think?" 
At which point, the recruit walks away shaking his head. 
"I would like to see Notre Dame commit to him (MacLeod) long-term," for­mer Irish star LaPhonso Eilis told the South Bend Tribune. ''I'm not sure they (the Notre Dame administration) are giving him an opportunity to attract the top-notch players. In fact, as an outsider look­ing in, they seem to be doing the opposite." 
Yet, this is not to say the Irish have come away empty handed. During the November signing period, the Irish did ink some talent­ed recruits. 
Martin Ingelsby: There has never been any question 
see RECRUITS I page 11 
• WOMEI"tS TENNIS 
Irish wrap up second consecutive title 
By BILL HART ence titles in five sports. teams in three days of competi­Sports Writer This weekend, there was tion. room for one more. "The Big East tournament 
In only two years of Big East The Notre Dame wom{m's runs differently from our play, Notre Dame made a name tennis team, ranked No. 23 in matches during the regular for itself when it comes to ath­the country, won its second season," head coach Jay letic prowess. This year alone, consecutive Big East title Louderback said. Notre Dame has won confer-Sunday by defeating three "We play the three doubles 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

In the Big East finals, junior Kelly Olson recorded two victories to help the Irish shut out the Miami Hurricanes. The victory gave Notre Dame its second Big East championship in a row. 
matches first, and whichever team wins two out of three scores the first point. Then we compete in singles until whoev­er has four points total. Because of time constraints, after a team clinches the win, the other matches are suspend­ed.'' 
Since Notre Dame was the top seed in the tournament, they received a bye in the first round and started its title defense on Friday against Providence. The match began on a high note as the first two doubles teams won their matches right off the bat. 
In No. 1 doubles, Jennifer Hall and Tiffany Gates defeated the Friars' Monica Martinez and Claire Curry, 8-1. They were immediately followed by the freshman duo of Sarah Scaringe and Kelly Zalinski, who also won 8-1, clinching the doubles point. 
In singles, the Irish continued to dominate the Friars with their solid play. Zalinski won a perfect match, her second of the season. against Providence's Christina Martin in No. 4 singles, while senior Tiffany Gates defeated Curry in straight sets, 6-0. 6-1. Marisa Velasco closed out the match by winning her fifth straight sin­gles match over Martinez, 6-1, 6-0. 
Saturday. Notre Dame faced Boston College in a quick rematch of last week. Six days 
see CHAMPS I page II 

• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Physical play marks third round action 
Tempers flare as teams vie for spot in round of 64 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 
Monday night, the essence of Bookstore Basketball was cap­tured as WPOII Plowin' Even Harder took on Stop the Bus Again and Let My Other Brother Jack, Off at the book­store courts. All the elements were present, a hardy crowd, a heated exchange, a possible fight and a serious injury. 
Despite the fact that neither team was ranked, a large crowd gathered to cheer on their favorites. The crowd did their fair share of trash-talking and cheering, causing frustra­tion for both squads. 
WPOII seemed to be in con­trol in the first half, when Stop the Bus made a run. WPOII's Mike Kearney and Stop the Bus' Joe Schenher both went up for a rebound. Schenher came down hard and collided with the post. Schenher dislo­cated his knee and it instanta­neously popped back in. His injury came at a crucial time while Stop the Bus was making a comeback. Due to Schenher's injury, his team was forced to play a man down. 
Stop the Bus was determined to win one for Schenher. Despite their aggressive play and will to win, WPOII proved to be to strong especially with their center, Mike Kearney. Kearney's height proved to be to much for Stop the Bus' de­fense to handle. 
"It was physical game under­neath," Kearney said about the game. "Both the teams wanted it bad. It was too bad that somebody had to get injured." 
A ranked team found them­selves situated next to this in­tense game. The ranked team, Vanilla Thunder, took on the Athletic Department. Vanilla Thunder easily handled them, 21-15. Vanilla Thunder tried to implement some new things into their game to prepare for future games. 
"We tried to press to get some points," said Vanilla Thunder's Nate Hatch. "We had some size on them so we took it inside and used our ath­letic ability." 
The No. 13 team, The Sixth Man, formally called the Awesome "Backer" Babies faced 2 Scrubs, 2 Bubs, and 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

No. 10 BW-3's Bolivian Yaks was one of the many seeded teams to see BOOKSTORE I page 10 advance to the fourth round of Bookstore Basketball XXVI. 


Baseball at Michigan, 
Track and Field Today, 7 p.m. 
a) •Men's lacrosse falls at UMass
at Drake Relays, 
Hillsdale Relays, Softball vs. Butler, 

~ 
see page 14 and Purdue Invitational, Wednesday, 4 p.m. 
April25-26

• CIJ •Baseball to face Michigan today 
Men's Lacrosse Tennis vs. Hope College, see page 12
at Michigan State April26 ~ Today, 3 p.m. 
~ 





