
Friday, November 14, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 54 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SECUfHTY BEAT 
Frida~ature
ND police chase burglary suspect 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame Security/Police arrested a suspect Wednesday morning following the 6:40 a.m. break-in and burglary of an Ellerbe-Becket con­struction trailer behind the Morris Inn. 
David Davis was arrested in the 100 block of LaSalle St. after he and two other male suspects led Notre Dame police officers on a low-speed chase, according to Chuck Hurley, director of Security/Police. 
The chase, which began when police respond­ed to a 911 call, ended with officers finding a laptop computer. two portable radios and a fax machine in the suspects' 1984 Chevy Caprice. The items were identified by Ellerbe personnel as missing from tlw trailer. 
"When the call came in. the caller said he saw someone in the trailer. Four officers responded in three vehicles," llurley said. 
"As they were approaching that area, they saw a vehicle going southbound on Notre Dame Ave. One officer jumped out of his vehicle to check out the scene and told the others to just 
see CHASE I page 4 



By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
What goes on in that forbidding building with the double-paned win­dows that appear perpetually fogged? That little concrete installa­itself "an international center for the study of chemical reactions initiated by ionizing radiation." 

The lab is dedicated to radiation chemistry, but "our sideline is pho­tochemistry," said Bently. 
"We put Jots of energy in a mole­cule in a real short time frame and see how it gets rid of it," he explained. 
To accomplish this, the lab uses a variety of different accelerators. "The heart of our empire is an 
see RAD LAB I page 4 

ll,l!nn-l"Ul'''"·'' B'"ii.T
• t'il~o ...... .. ·.J _. LHII'-"',t. !':!-\. 
SMC luncheon targets diversity, communication 
By MICHELLE S. PRIMEAU 
diverse staffs, provide students with an News Writer education of the history of injustice, address issues through meaningful 
Affirming diversity in the classroom dialogue -not intellectual debate ­and building unity through understand­and model lifestyles that encourage ing was the basis of a luncheon and interaction with those who are differ­workshop given by Ruth Bass Green ent. yesterday at Saint Mary's. These challenges require total coop­
Green. the associate dean of studies eration, and those involved are at Mount Holyoke College began her rewarded with the development of lecture by describing her intent to trig­bonds and friendships that come from gnr dialogue between participants in diversity, according to Green. The lun­order to develop ideas that could truly cheon concluded with a discussion achieve an understanding of diversity. between participants on how to imple­Green cited numerous individuals that ment such ideas into already existing contributed to the civil rights move­courses. ment in order to emphasize the strong In her overview of the workshop,
examples that have already been Set in Eiiiiii_._...l__..:::.C........:__.::...__......__ ____::,;;_IIi!ll....!IAI_:A.._~---=-....::>.....:..::..i::.iiiO.ThweiiiO.bs~e:_rve-r/-M-an_::ue~la Hernandez Gr-een stated that "our primary 
multicultural education. Ruth Bass Green spoke yesterday to a group of Saint Mary's women about diversity. assumption is in the oneness of the 
"As I see it, schools need to provide human family ... however within this 
overcome when attempting to institute a multicultural
moral and ethical models in their community to fulfill human family there is great diversity. Within the 
curriculum. She believes that institutions of higher
the intellectual and emotional needs of its-members," United States of America, this diversity is becoming Green said. learning need to embrace and recognize courses and 
departments that will develop understanding, hireAccording to Green, there are five challenges to 
see GREEN I page 4 

page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
My faPter the 
fen1inist 

My dad tried to teach me not to' say the "f' 
word. 
Not the four-letter "f' word that all of you 
with dirty minds and filthier mouths are envi­
sioning right now. The 
eight-letter word. F-E-M-1-N-1-S-T. The word generates a 
negative connotation for my dad. He probably envisions a long-haired, unbathed hippie burning bras and bashing men. Or maybe he discouraged me from referencing myself with that word because he knows that the aforementioned description is what society on the whole conjures upon mention of the word. 
The problem is, it's the perfect word to describe me. It's the perfect word to describe him. 
Dad, let's face it. You're a feminist. 
You tell me that you only raised me to be a kind, open-minded human being. But it goes much deeper and much further than that. You, along with my incredible mother, are responsi­ble for instilling values in me that are repre­sentative of the feminist school of thought. 
You were a feminist before I even came into 

the world. You are a feminist because you 
helped Mom pay for her master's degree, and 
never felt threatened by being married to 
someone with a higher level of education than 
you. 
You have told me, from day one, that I can 
be anything I want to be. You surrounded me 
with exceptional female role models who suc­
ceeded in breaking into male-dominated 
career fields to do just that; our family dentist 
and pediatricians were both women. 
You took me along for business trips as a 
small child, and introduced me to several 
female professionals in the workplace. I took 
those experiences home and role played in our 
basement. The other girls in the neighborhood 
played "nurse" or "house." I played "marketing 
executive" and made one of my younger broth­
ers be my secretary. 
You are a feminist because you never told 
me that this vision of the business world hier­
archy was "wrong." 
You are a feminist because you encouraged 
me to play baseball in the league that consisted 
primarily of boys. 
You have always told me that I am beautiful: 
on the inside first, and then on the outside. You 
are a feminist because you never told me that I 
needed makeup or hose or a skirt to be beauti­
ful. 
You are a feminist because you do not laugh 
at my lifetime objective to break "the glass ceil­
ing." Instead, you promise to support me in any 
endeavor I choose. 
You are a feminist because you encouraged 
me to attend a college which believes firmly in 
the empowerment of women. 
Even though you loved Saint Mary's, you 
cried when you left me on campus that fall day 
in 1994. When I asked you if you thought you 
were losing me, you laughed and told me that 
I, as your daughter, was "on loan" to you; that 
ultimately that I am my own person. You are a 
feminist because you gave me full control of my 
life. 
Dad, I stand before you today, on the begin­

ning of Senior Dads' weekend, as a full adult. I 
am the strong, independent, hardworking 
woman you have raised me to be. I am the 
feminist you have raised me to be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF 
News Graphics Michelle Krupa Pete Cilella Nicole Swartzentruber Production 
Sports Michelle Krupa Sarah Dylag Laura Petelle Viewpoint Chris Shipley 
Kelly Brooks 
Nicole Swartzentruber Accent 
Lab Tech Michelle Keefe Joe Wieler 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Friday, November 14, 1997

The Observer • INSIDE 
utside the Dome 
U. of Arizona investigates Y-chromosome as forensics tool 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
Rapists, be careful where you leave your sperm. Your genes may put you in jail. 
DNA analysis of male chromosomes is making the leap from pure science to criminology -thanks to UA research. 
For 10 years UA biotechnology researcher Michael Hammer has been on the evolutionary trail of the male Y-chromosome. The chromo­some remains virtually unchanged as it is passed from father to son. 
In fact, Hammer has tracked the Y­chromosome of all men alive today back to a common ancestor in Africa and has followed migration patterns out of Africa to Europe, the Middle East and Asia. 
But now, Hammer has turned to fighting crime. In September, Hammer received a two-year, $140,000 grant from the 
National Institute of Justice to develop methods using Y -chro­mosome analysis in forensics. 
"It makes 


sense to target the Y-chromosome because males have such a propensity to commit crime," Hammer said. 
The grant funds research to develop standard techniques criminologists can use to help identify or exclude suspects in criminal cases. 
"To develop Y-chromosome as a forensic tool, we're doing the same things we do to study evolution," Hammer said, "by looking at varia­tions in Y -chromosome that would be useful to identify male perpetrators of crime," Hammer said. 
The techni'iJ.le will be extremely helpful in rape cases, Hammer said. 
DNA evidence plays a key role in many rape cases, and on occasion is the only evidence prosecutors can usc to get a conviction, said Alan Hatch, a Tucson Police Department criminolo­gist who will work with Hammer to verify and test Y analysis procedures. 
But isolating a rapist's DNA from that of the female victim is a time­consuming procedure, Hatch said. 
A crime lab must first isolate sperm cells. 
"It's not hard to isolate them out if you have a large number of sperma­tozoa, but in most cases in the real world a victim has waited 12, 14, 18 hours before reporting it (a rape). so we are dealing with evidence that is severely compromised," Hatch said. 
"If you can go in and look at the Y­chromosome, you can get a profile," he said. 

• DUKE UNIVERSITY • UNIVERSITY OF OREGON Mock lynching shakes Duke Churches welcome gay youth 
DURHAM, N.C. 

In an incident clearly reminiscent of racially motivated lynchings from America's past, a brown doll dangling by a noose from a tree outside the Cambridge Inn yesterday morning bore a sign reading, "Duke hasn't changed." The Class of 1948 bench underneath the tree was covered with dripping, black tar. Police have been unable to determine who is responsible for the incident, but University house­keeper Kenneth Burton discovered the display before sun­rise Wednesday morning. He told officers from the Duke University Police Department that he saw two individuals ­one black man and one man whose race he was unable to discern -standing beneath the tree. As of press time, Campus Police was uncertain about whether a connection exists between the mock lynching and Wednesday after­noon's Black Student Alliance protest in President Nan Keohane's office. But Tobie Wilder, president of BSA, said his organization is not responsible for hanging the doll. 
• UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO 
Goldschlager promotes binge drinking 
BOULDER, Colo. 
While visiting some of the local bars on a Thursday night, Rosemarie Spano, a senior civil engineering major, and some of her friends won T-shirts. They won the Goldschlager shirts for doing multiple shots of Goldschlager, not for doing a service to somebody or for running a race. "It wasn't a big deal," Spano said. "It was a company promoting their product in a fun way to people at the bar. Bu.t I guess I can see how this kind of advertis­ing with the cheap prices and free stuff promotes binge drinking." And so do others. Representatives from A Matter of Degree, the program at the University of Colorado sponsored by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, are targeting these types of promotions, say­ing that they encourage binge drinking and should be reg­ulated with policies. However, CU student leaders say that the grant money should go toward more education. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday  ~  38_,28  
Saturday  Q ·.;.·.:··  34 21  
Sunday  32  20  
Monday  38 28  
Tuesday ,,  r ~  43 29  
~--~,..,s-··-......--....~  .,r'  

q,~,~A.~Q t} ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
EUGENE, Ore. 
It is written in the Bible, "Do unto others, as you would have them do unto you." That's true unless you are a gay or lesbian youth. Religion for many gay and lesbian stu­dents is confusing and often conflicts with their lifestyles. What do you do when your family rejects you, friends shun you and your own religion tells you that homosexual­ity is wrong and sinful? Where do you go when your God condemns you? "I think most gay and lesbians get the pic­ture that sexuality and spirituality are separate," said Karen Vittck, co-director of the University's Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Alliance. But the rejection of gay and lesbian youths by their church doctrines can be painful. According to the Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance, "Systematic homophobia in North American society is currently responsible for the deaths of American ' gay and lesbian youth at a rate greater than the churches exterminated 'witches' during the late Middle Ages. 
• SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
Anorexia plagues men too 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
They live in shame and fear mirrors, scales and food. They are perfectionists, haunted by an apparition of beauty that is unattainable because they feel fat. They might skip meals, vainly hoping to close in on flawlessness. They are anorexic. They are also male. More than one million American men suffer from anorexia, according to a 1996 study in New Woman magazine~ They account for 10 to 15 percent of all reported cases of anorexia, a number that experts believe is climbing. "We're seeing more men with anorexia or bulim­ia," said Desa Bergen-Cico, health enhancement coordinator at Syracuse University. The program director of Adult Services at Syracuse's Benjamin Rush Center, Sherie Ramsgard, agreed, but warned that the figures are mislead­ing. "I think it is rising," said Ramsgard. "You hear more about it in a lot of the men's fitness magazines. You see it. But we're not seeing a lot of men in for treatment." 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 14. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONijRY 
Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L B 5S:l [I!) 0 . ~ 8 ~ ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Associated Press 
Atlanta  49  41  Dallas  48  45  Miami  81  68  
Baltimore  46  43  Denver  28  20  Middlebury  32  23  
Baton Rouge  59  57  Honolulu  83  74  New York  52  40  
Chicago  34  27  Indianapolis  34  22  Phoenix  65  60  
Columbus  34  29  Los Angeles  68  59  St. Louis  36  30  



Friday, November 14, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
at The Huddle 
McSorley to speak· on peace 
Special to The Observer 
Father Richard McSorley, anti-war activist and director of the Center for Peace Studies at Georgetown University, will speak on the "New Testament Basis of Peacemaking" on Sat., Nov. 
15. in Room 119 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. He will also speak on "The Martyrs of El Salvador" at 7 p.m. in the same room. 
McSorley, 63, is a native of Philadelphia. Born to a devot­edly Catholic family (seven of his 14 brothers and sisters entered into formal religious life), he entered the Society of Jesus in 1932 and was teach­ing at a Jesuit selhinary in the Philippines at the outbreak of World War IL He spent the war starving and under con­tinual threat of execution in a Japanese prison camp. 
During the 1960s, his radi­cally pacifist opposition to the war in Vietnam earned him the enmity of FBI director J, Edgar Hoover, who ordered a surveillance ofhim. 
McSorley served for 15 years on the National Interreligious Board for Conscientious Objectors and was a member of the American Council for Pax Christi, the international Catholic peace organization, from 1983-1989. He has writ­ten several books including, most recently, "It's a Sin to Build a Nuclear Weapons." 
McSorley's visit is being sponsored by Notre Dame Peacenet, a group of Notre Dame alumni interested in peace studies at the University. 
Johansen: Peacekeeping is difficult 
By COLLEEN GAUGHEN 
News Writer 

World peace is a difficult endeavor, according to government professor and Joan B. Kroc Institute fellow Hobert Johansen. He explained the complexity of peacekeeping in his lecture yesterday. 
Since 1988, the United Nations has creat­ed 28 new peacekeeping operations, illus­trating the growth and awareness of global conflict. New books written on the lessons of peacekeeping are also on the rise; but in his presentation, "U.N. Peacekeeping: Lessons from the Past," Johansen observed that it can be difficult to draw the right lessons out of experiences. 
"To draw lessons from experience sug­gests that we have some standards for mea­suring success and differentiating between success and failure," he said. 
The two most common standards for peace success, he explained, are war pre­vention and conflict resolution. Yet the focus should also be on the peacekeepers' impact on the people, according to Johansen. 
Peacekeepers are often the target of mis­directed frustration, Johansen explained. Stubborn antagonists can be aggressive obstacles to reconciling conflict; "they are the ones who should get the low marks, not the peacekeepers." 
Johansen outlined four major types of 
U.N. peacekeeping strategies: classic, multi­dimensional, humanitarian intervention, and enforcement. 
Where classic (first generation) peace­keeping seeks to stabilize and improve local peoples through interstate employment, 
WSND, Observer radio show begins today 
Observer Staff Repon 

WSND-FM and The Observer will begin a new weekly news program today at 5:30p.m. 
The program, "ND Weekly," will feature a review of the top news stories of the week, three in-depth stories of events and people affecting the Notre Dame community and a preview of upcoming events on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campus­es. 
"I want this show to be a way for students, faculty and staff to 
get an overview of what has been going on around cam­pus," said WSND station manager Nate Rackiewicz. 

"We will have Loughran 

Try our Hot Breadsticks and Marinara Sauce r.-----r-----r.----­Large 1 Topping I Large I Larg!3 1 Topping I Pizza w1th 1 I Cheese Pizza I I PIZZO With I 8 Breadsticks 1 with 1 4Pepperoni &
1 1 1
and Sauce 2 Liter Soda Mozzarella 1 1 I I Breadsticks &Sauce $6.99 I I $6.99 1 I $6.99 ~ffer~pi~2!'ed.~/26~ _. I _Effer,!Pire~ed.~/26~ _. I _Effer,!Pire~ed.~/26~ _. 
7pm ·1 am Sun.· Sat. 
10 pm ·1 am 
Football Fri. and Sat. 
1-6902 
Free Delivery on Campus 

The Observer/ Sam Assaf 

R
obert Johansen spoke yesterday about 
U.N. peacekeeping operations. 
multi-dimensional (second generation) peacekeeping often orclrestrates major change intra-state conflict, he said. 
"Peacekeepers are now overseeing politi­cal transition. They may organize, adminis­ter and monitor elections. They may re­train police forces or aid in the protection of human rights." He cited the situation in El Salvador as encouraging evidence for nur­turing peace. 
"The key variable is consent," he empha­sized. 
"Technically, an operation is no longer 
a section about a service oppor­tunity in the community also as a way to help people get involved." 
Hackiewicz will co-host the show with Matthew Loughran, an associate news editor of The Observer. 
The program, with some pre­recorded segments, will air live at 5:30p.m. every Friday on 88.9 FM. 
"The drive time is a good slot for this show because people will 
BUY DIAMONDS BELOW WHOLESALE! · 

Since 1921 
CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
peacekeeping when you employ military force," Johansen explained. Militarized "peacekeeping" suppresses the violation of human rights, as seen in the 1994-95 situa­tion in Haiti. 
"For a combination of political, military, moral, and financial reasons, we should focus on devising coercive instruments that can help gain compliance with prohibitions against genocide and threat," Johansen asserted. 
"Protecting human rights allows the peace process to move forward," he explained. 
It is important to accurately assign responsibility, establish U.N. public educa­tion programs, and use communication media to build peace and aid its keeping, according to Johansen. 
Recent experience demonstrates the need for institutional innovations and. reforms, he said. 
"Many observers, and certainly the gener­al public, in this country," he said, "believe that these peacekeeping experiences demonstrate that the U.N. is sadly inca­pable of doing very much, if anything at all, to prevent collective violence." 
On the contrary, Johansen said, "It is possible to establish a very impressive list of U.N. orchestrated actions that do meet with success." 
The problem isn't a lack of government knowledge or U.N. incapability, he argued, but rather a lack of enough care to commit to peace values. 
"At least we know it is possible to nurture these values," he concluded, "and to articu­late those interests that would make peace possible." 
be packing up and going home," Rackiewicz said. "They can listen to it in their cars and in their offices and rooms after classes or work." 
This week's show will feature an interview with Mary Hepburn about the deaf community at Notre Dame, as well as segments on the computer programming contest last weekend, Dismas House and past events of the week. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used l:=ks l=l;Jht arrl sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback rooks in stock 

• 
Qlt-of-Print Sffirr:h Service: $2.00 


• Jl{:praisals large arrl srrall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 

BY}Ess BoRGESON, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 ........ 7=30 PM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 .......... 7=30 PM FRIDAY, Nov. 21................. 7=30 PM SATURDAY, Nov. zz ........... 7=30 PM SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30 PM 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $8 • SENIORS $7 • ALL STUDENTS $6 TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAfORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 6JI-8I28 


page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 14, J997 
Rad Lab 
continued from page 1 
eight million electron volt linear electron accelerator," said Bently. This accelerator, built to the University's specifications in 1995, delivers pulses of electrons ranging from 1 nanosecond to 
1.5 microseconds in duration to samples usually suspended in an aqueous solution. 
"Most of the chemistry we're interested in is going to be done in water. Other solvents are expensive, carcinogenic or toxic, so most people won't want to use them," Bently said. 
The control panel is kept in a different room than the accelera­tor. 
"The labyrinth [between the two rooms] is radiation protec­tion. It's not necessary, but it [the building] was designed for a wm:st-case scenario. The accel­erator runs at a 100 to 1,000 fac­tor lower than its heaviest possi­ble output," said Bently, adding that the Rad Lab has not had an exposure in the last five years. 
The lab has not only the state­of-the-art linear accelerator, but an older linear accelerator which will soon be disassembled, two Van de GrafT accelerators, sever­al lasers, and two Cobalt-60 gamma irradiators. 
The accelerators in the lab are not under the building itself, but buried under the shrubbery and grass around the building. There is no radiation leakage anywhere in the building. 
The radiation lab also includes part of the University library sys­tem focused on radiation research, a radiation chemistry data center where articles on radiation are compiled from periodicals and a glass shop where the lab blows its own glass to researchers'. specifica­tions. 
The researchers in the radia­tion lab interact more than in most departments, because "everyone's working on different aspects of the same problem," said Bently. 
More information about cur­rent research at the lab can be found at the radiation lab's web site at http://www.-rad.nd.edu/ 

Bed 'N Breakfast Registry 

Try the Option 
A ·11ornc AWil)" frorn llornc!.. _ 
fB-Grad-fr. Or.-JPW 
, ... The Irish & ND Symbol of Approval 
219-291-7153 
then broke into three emotions. groups to discuss emotions "This was just a part of

Chase Green 
and opinions evoked by the the ongoing conversation continued from page 1 continued from page I activity. Individuals reflect­that we need to nurture and ed on personal experiences spread in our cQmmunity," follow that car," he continued. increasingly apparent, and that shaped their lives. said Julie Storme, associate The chase proceed west on Howard interactions between groups The group reconvened professor of modern lan­St. to North Shore, then southbound leads to chaos and trauma." and argued the real mean­guages. "It's the quest that on Michigan St. Green led activities which ing of racism in America. never ends. If we don't keep 
rt ended with the suspects leaving allowed participants to "I see racism not as indi­it going, we lose what we've their car on Madison St. and continu­explore this chaos and trau­vidual acts but as a system gained." ing on foot to LaSalle St. where Davis ma in their own lives and of oppression. It is defined The discussion will contin­was arrested. The other two suspects worlds. as the power and control ue today at 3 p.m. with the evaded arrest. Questions such as, "Did that one group holds over second part of Green's 
"We're attempting to locate the you grow up in a home another," Green explained. workshop, "Pedagogical other two men to present a case to where derogatory state­"It is the institutionalized Models for Discussing the St. Joseph County prosecutor's ments or jokes were made?" pattern of discrimination." Diversity," in Haggar Parlor. office in the hopes of pressing and "Have you ever been in The afternoon concluded Green's lectures are spon­charges," Hurley said. a restaurant where all the with the showing of a video sored by the Lily 
The Security/Police department is customers were white and titled "It's in Every One of Foundation, FIPSE, the currently processing the items for fin­all of the service employees Us," which depicted the Office of Multicultural gerprints, and Hurley expects them to were of color?" were asked. faces of people from around Affairs and The be returned today. The workshop attendees the world expressing many Intercultural Studies· COLT. 
LITTLE MERMAID (G) DTS 12:00 2:15 4:30 5:40 8:45 STARSHIP TROOP (R) DTS 
1:15 4:15 7:15 8:50 JACKAL(R) 
1 :00 4:00 7:00 9:40 MAN WHO KNEW TOO (PG) 12:30 2:45 5:15 7:30 9:45 IKNOWWHATYOUDDLA(R) 
2:00 5:00 7:40 10:00 BEAN (PG-13) 12:15 2:30 4:45 6:50 9:00 
GATIACA (PG-13) 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 EVE'S BAYOU (R) 
2:30 5:00 7:30 1 0:00 SWITCHBACK (R) 
2:15 4:45 7:15 9:50 
Diamond PriceQuotations 
246-1939 

Thinking ofpurchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Dian1ond Authority® 
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, IOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

CYNTHIA  BOBBY PLUMP  AUTHOR JEANNE  LATIN GUITAR W/  
SHELHART  BOOK SIGNING  M.DAMS  EDUARDO WOLF  
FRIDAY,•NOV  1-4  SATURDAY•  NOV 15  SUNDAY •  NOV  16  SUNDAY •  NOV16  
8:00-9:30 P.M.  2:00P.M.  I :30P.M.  3:00·4:30 P.M.  
Join us in the Cafe Espresso for  Bobby Plump: Last of the Small Town  Meet Agatha Award winner Jeanne  Born in Chile and raised in the U.S.  
Cynthia Shelhart on Contemporary &  Heroes is the untold story ofthe1954  M. Dams who will be signing her  Eduardo acts as an ambassador of  
Celtic Harps.  Milan Indians. This is the real story  third mystery novel, Holy Terror in  Latin American Folk music. He per­ 
She will perform songs from her lat­ behind the movie Hoosiers Bobby will  the Hebrides: A Dorothy Martin Mys­ forms both traditional songs and  
est cassette Offand Running.  be here to talk and autograph copies  tery. Enjoy a bit of "tablet" and con­ original compositions on a variety of  
ofhis book.  versation while you have your book  folkloric instruments.  

signed. 
MISHAWAKA '4230 GRAPE RD • cORNER OF GRAPE AND DAY ROADS • (219) 271-9930 

7:00, 10:05 
MAN WHO KNEW TOO LITTLE 
)* 1:05, 3:20, 5:35, 7:50, 10:25 
KNOW WHAT YOU DID l (R) 1:30, 
. •5:50, 8:05, 10:30 
THE GIRlS (R) 1:25, 4:05, 7:20,10:oc 
NAND OUT (PG-13) 1:15.3:30, 5:40 
:55, 10:10 SPECIAl SNEAK PREVIEW SAT NIGHT 11/15 OF THE RAINMAKER WITH IN AND OUT 


Friday, November 14, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. currency to get makeover 
WASHINGTON 

The dollar's going gold and the quarter's getting a face lift under legislation passed by the House Thursday and sent to President Clinton. The bill, passed by voice vote, autho­rizes the treasury secretary to create a gold­colored dollar to replace the Susan B. Anthony dollar as well as new quarters hon­oring the 50 states. Beginning in 1999, Treasury will issue live new quarters a year, each commemorating a state. The states will be honored in the order they entered the union. "This program will not only be educa­tional for people of all ages and promote pride among our states, but it will make get­ting change a lot more interesting," said Rep. Michael Castle, H-Del., sponsor of the legisla­tion. The head of George Washington will remain on one side of the quarters, with the other side to carry designs distinctive to the states. They will be designed by the treasury secretary together with state officials, the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee and the Commission on Fine Arts. The bill, which has already been approved by the Senate, directs the secretary not to rhoose any frivolous or inappropriate designs. It docs not say who or what should replace suffragist Susan B. Anthony on the face of the dollar coin. That design is left up to the Tnmsury secretary. Paper dollars will continue to be printed. "While I think many Americans will use a dollar coin if it is easier to distinguish from the quarter. the general ptlblic is not ready to part with the dollar bill," Castle said. 
China may free dissendents 
BEIJING 

China may free one or more prominent dis­sidents in the next few weeks as a gesture of goodwill toward America, the U.S. ambas­sador said Thursday. Ambassador James Sasser said he was disappointed China did not releast~ anyone during President Jiang Zemin 's visit to the United States, which ended Nov. 3. Jiang has so far withstood U.S. pressure to release political prisoners. "But time has not run out on that, and there's still. I think. hope that in the next few weeks a promim~nt dissident or dissidents will be released," Sasser told reporters. Sasser did not mention any specific indications from Chinese officials that they were planning to release political prisoners soon. He said Jiang and President Clinton discussed the issue during Jiang's U.S. visit. China has sometimes freed dissidents on medical parole. The families of two of the most prominent imprisoned democracy campaign­r.rs, Wei Jingsheng and Wang Dan, say both prisoners arc suffering from serious ail­ments. which may make them eligible for release. 

916.66 Composite 
Volume:
+ 10.76

+86.14 767,681,870 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
Bestway Inc. BSTW 35.85% +2.375 9.000 Monarch Avalon MAHI 31.82% +0.875 3.625 Interface Sys INTF 26.83% +0.687 3.250 Osicom Tech FIBR 24.24% +0.500 2.562 Nutrition Medica NMED 23.08% +0.375 2.000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

Virus Research VRII 39.44% -3.500 5.375 Big City Bag-wts BIGCW 33.33% -0.875 1.750 Applied Computer ABZ 30.00% NA 3.500 Central Euro EQT CEE 29.18% -0.125 15.625 Angeion Corp ANGN 28.57% -0.875 2.187 
The Associated Press 
NEW YORK The FBI has formally ended its crim­inal investigation into the 1996 crash 
Flight 800, saying thatithad no evidence" of a according to alpttet the 
vestigator • crash Vi. on 
edJ;tesdaynight thattbeJeiter, signed by James Kallstrom, >head of the New York office of the FBI, was sent so that the families would not be taken by surprise when the. agency made its official announcement ofthe end ofthe criminal investigation next Tuesday; •. . . . . ·..·.... ·.· ..........·.....·· 
A ~e parate irivestigation hy tll.e National Transportation Safety Board into whether mechanicaLfailure caused the exploslon will continue, officials said. 
In the letter. Kallstrom said his agents had interviewed more than 7,000 people, conducted extensive forensic tests and undertaken "the 
was the letter to · formal investigation; ..·..··. . 
The F}li's i:J;l'v'estigation began min* utes after t}iejiJiilbo jethurst into a firehaii~ ~ur 0 passengerson 
. hqa~d 1'!-0c yvreckage .acr ·afive;s aofthe Atlan Ocean; a. ....·.....·.. ~soft'Longlsland. .·.· The letter, ......·.·· ....· .was mailed, was· an apparent effott to. avoid criticism from the fainilies, who have often assailed officialsfor failing to keep them advised of developments in the case. 
··Flight,800 
Ostachiewkz. whose 49­mother and s:..year-old sister ·the crash, said he did not :·:.u~.IJ~~vtj the numerous conspiracy theo­have cropped up in the al)se:nce of a formal declaration of a 
the crash. 
was a malfunction," he said. inv(;rstigatioJ;t is·complete don't think there wa.s any­in terms of a missile or 
board, meanwhile, has a variety of theories for how a mechanical malfunction could have 
.cr~ated a spark .to set off the explo­sion. ...... Among the theories it is pursuing have been the possibility ofa build-up 
ti(}. electricity within·• the center or an electrical malfunction. ate last year, NTSBinvestiga­
have said the destruction of the p a.rie was caused by an accumulation ofjeffuel fumes in the center fuel tank of the Boeing 747. But as yet, investi­gators have been unable to determine what ignited those fumes. 

•ISRAEL 

AFP Photo 

D
emonstrators protest the official visit of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu outside No. 10 Downing Street in London as he held talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
Netanyahu faces growing discontent at home 
The Associated Press 
TEL AVIV 
With Benjamin Netanyahu's govern­ment in increasing disarray, his foreign minister met the head of the opposition Thursday for talks widely seen as a prelude to an attempt to bring down the prime minister. 
The move came amid a brewing mutiny by Cabinet ministers after the governing Likud Party decided at a convention this week to abolish pri­maries -an attempt by Netanyahu to tighten his grip on the party and push aside possible challengers. 
Party leaders have been criticizing Netanyahu for days, and some are now openly seeking ways to bring him down -even at the risk of returning the opposition Labor Party to power. 
Science Minister Michael Eitan, once one of Netanyahu's closest associates, was quoted in the Y cdiot Ahronot daily Thursday as saying "Netanyahu's days [in office) are numbered." 
On Thursday, as Netanyahu was leaving for Britain and the United 
States, Foreign Minister David Levy and Labor leader Ehud Barak met for 90 minutes in a Tel Aviv hotel -the first such meeting since Barak was elected to his post in May. 
They would not comment on their talks, but aides to Levy said they dis­cussed the crumbling peace process with the Palestinians. 
The moderate Levy has been dissatis­fied with Netanyahu's hard line and has warned he would not keep his five­member Gesher Party in the coalition if peace talks fell apart. Levy associate David Appel said Thursday that there was a 1-in-2 chance that Levy would bolt the coalition. 
Israel was rife with speculation Thursday about various scenarios that could bring down the government. 
According to one, Netanyahu would lose his majority in a no-confidence vote -or in the December vote on the state budget -forcing new elections for the Knesset and for prime minister. 
Netanyahu's coalition controls 66 of the 120 Knesset members. But Gesher's departure could be enough to deny him a majority because the sup­port of several members of Likud is also wobbly -including that of two highly respected ministers who resigned and have been calling for Netanyahu's ouster, Benny Begin and Dan Meridor. 
Another possibility would be muster­ing 80 votes against Netanyahu, which would enable the Knesset members to keep their seats and force new elec­tions for prime minister only. That would n~quire an all-out Likud mutiny against Netanyahu. 
Netanyahu might head off these sce­narios with a move to bring Labor into a "national unity" coalition. In speeches this week he was unusually conciliatory toward the opposition, and several coalition allies have predicted that an invitation is imminent. 
Polls show a unity government would be welcomed by the public as a means of defusing the incendiary political divi· sions, and it would enable Netanyahu -currently constrained by rightist coalition allies -to advance peace talks with the Palestinians. 

~-----------------~--~~------~~----------~-~--­
page 6 The ·. )bserver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 14, 1997 
Give away your coat...
PROJECl WARMTH and 
SHARE THE WARMTH. 
FACTS AND 
FIGURES ON 

PovERTY AND 
AMERICA's 

WoRKING PooR 
* 
Fastest grow­ing segment of homeless popu­lation: families and children. 

* 
The growth ··•• in the number of working poor grew by 400,000 between 1980 and 1990, all of which were accounted for by the growth of 


female working poor. 
* In 1992~ 21% of all children were poor, with 46% of African­American chil­dren and 39% of Hispanic young­sters living in poverty. 
* In ] 993 the bottom 20% of households received only 3.6% of U.S. income while the top 20% amassed 48.2%, the widest gap since the Census Bureau started keeping track in 1947. The top 5% of households earn 

C E N T E 'R F 0 R SOCIAL CONCERNS 
coats were including .....~:'""'""s in need 
ound the sta­and 22. 

Each donor will receive a 2 to be used in pur­chasing a new GEAR for S : · · otre Dame Bookstore 


Hammes Bookstore St. Michael's Laundry 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES Notre lJcune 
COMMUNITY SERVICE 
Support Services 
. 

Friday, November 14, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Sins determine level of Hell 


Cogan: Structure of Dante aids way of viewing afterlife 
By DINA BRICK News Writer 
The structure of Dante's "Divine Comedy" is fundamental to understanding its meaning, according to Marc Cogan, associate professor of romance languages at Wayne State University. 
Speaking before a small crowd at the Hesburgh Library last night, Cogan emphasized the Aristotelian notion of "appetites," or desires, as an interesting way of viewing Dante's structure of Hell and Purgatory. 
"Once we recognize the appetitive structure of the 'Inferno,' we can see the frustrating structure of Hell." he said. 
One ques­tion regard­ing this structure is the location of a given sinner on the spiraling levels of Purgatory and Hell. 
"Location redefines what Dante may have meant by 

sins," Cogan "The two realms do not match; Hell is a place of punishment, cluded by said. Purgatory of reformation. In Purgatory ... the proud bend their continuing necks as they didn't before, and the gluttons are placed on a diet," his discus­
W h e n 
according to Marc Cogan, who spoke yesterday on the structure of sion of the
ordering sins 
Dante's "Divine Comedy." 

through an appetitive model. those sins most closely related to human reason are the most serious. According to Cogan, sins of a corporeal nature are the most innocuous and arc therefore located in the highest levels of Hell. 
Each of the three classifications of appetite have their own passions, and each can be relat­ed to either the upper, middle, or lowest depths of Hell, Cogan asserted. 
The higher two levels of Hell -home of incontinence and bestiality, respectively­should be associated with what Aristotle called the "sensitive" or passionate appetites, namely the "concupiscible" and "irascible." Dante stressed the passionate nature of these sinners. 
The lowest levels of Hell -home of the mali­cious -should be associated with the "intellec­tual" appetite, the human will. In this model, the body is irrelevant. 
Cogan continued by including Purgatory in his discussion. 
"Hell and Purgatory share a similar structure based on appetites," he said. Yet where Hell punishes th'l sinner, Purgatory reforms appetites to "work properly." 
"The two realms do not match; Hell is a place of punishment, Purgatory of reformation," Cogan said. "In Purgatory ... the proud bend their necks as they didn't before, and gluttons 
are placed 
on a diet." 
He contin­
ued with his 
assertion 
that the evil 
actions of 
sinners in 
Hell are 
greatly dif­
ferent from 
the "disposi­
tions" to sin 
from which 
H e I I ' s 
actions 
m i g h t 
spring, 
which char­
acterize sin­
ners in 
Purgatory. 
Cogan con­
body versus 
the spirit. He proposed that perhaps even sensual appetites are intellectual at their roots, thereby stressing Dante's emphasis on the comparable physical and spiritual realms. 
"Dante's goal is to alter the life of his read­ers. If he affects only intellect, he fails," Cogan explained. "Only by addressing the heart along with intellect will he get where he wants." 
The Observer/Sam Assaf Alfred Decrane Jr. discussed the United States' role in influencing world business ethics last night. 
Decrane tackles business ethics 
ByJESSICA LOGAN News Writer 
Ethical problems have consis­tently been a concern among businesses, but a recent study of how to resolve some of these issues has spurred heightened interest and publicity. Last evening, Alfred Decrane Jr., former chief executive officer of Texaco and a graduate of Notre Dame, delivered a lecture con­cerning global businesses and standards. 
Decrane began his lecture with a number of statistics revealing the unethical activi­ties present in corporations today. While 16 percent of busi­ness leaders have reportedly cut corners in ethical matters, 14 percent have covered up unfavorable activities and 9 percent have lied to or deceived customers. 
Decrane went on to say that for students, "this is an opti­mum time to explore how to deal with these issues." 
To combat the existing ethical problems that face corporations today, many companies have instituted ethics policies and established training to encour­age ethical behavior. 
However, Decrane empha­sized that many of the issues that plague corporations today stem from foreign businesses. For instance, he cited Germany and France as two countries in particular that encourage unethical behavior by making bribes tax deductible. 
According to Decrane, gov­ernmental action is necessary to combat the problem of ethics as "there is a continued need for guidelines in corporations." 
While numerous nations have taken action to combat corrup­tion in business, and business leaders have demonstrated a genuine concern, "we're not there yet, and we're still a long way away," Decrane stressed. 
He encourages American involvement in the crusade to promote ethical behavior in businesses, but he warned that the U. S. needs to be careful not to become overly involved. 
"America has a tendency to be impatient," he said. According to Decrane, between 1993 and 1996, the 
U.S. instituted 61 sanctions and boycotts in response to unethi­cal practices by other nations' businesses. 
"The U.S. has gone too far with its economic approaches ... We must be careful not to push too hard," he warned. "Other countries businesses have begun to fear that American companies will withdraw in the midst of a contract." 
In conclusion, Decrane urged American business leaders to strike a balance and "keep the country involved, but keep a low-key consultative approach." 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1953, Decrane served in the Marine Corps and received his law degree from Georgetown University. 
Held in the Jordan Center in the College of Business Administration, the lecture was the third part of the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series on Business Ethics. 


~mt 
Tennis C.\iniG 
Monday, November 17 
6:00 PM -7:15 PM A?~~ Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke Analysi.s 
& 
Si.tuati.ons 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed 
Open to All Notre Dame Students 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, November 14, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 


Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 

Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski 

News Editor ............................Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ............. ..... Katie Kroener 
Business Manager Tom Roland 
Advertising Manager......•....................... Jed Peters Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Systems Manager ....................... Michad Brouillet Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edimr, Spores Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Pho£0 Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns presem the views of rhe authors, and nor neces­sarily rho~ ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available mall members of rhe Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Ediror  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Phoro  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• DIGRESSIONS, DISTORTIONS AND GENERAl RAMBliNGS 
Photography: The Art of Holding Your Head Awkwardly 
And the funny thing is -THEY made ME sign a liability waiver! 
The frightening thing is-I was only getting my picture taken! That's it! Just pictures! I wasn't going skydiving, or tightrope walking, or after­Christmas shopping. There was to be no heavy machinery involved, no sharp objects, explosives or supersonic won­dercats. It was just pictures! What could possibly be so dangerous about 

Kathy Scheibel 
pictures?! 
Apparently a lot! -Because I was seriously maimed immediately upon entering the studio when the recep­tionist thwacked me in the head with a hardbound, multi-thousand-page waiv­er detailing the dangers involved. The abridged version read something like this: 
"1, the undersigned victim, realize that the picture-taking process will undoubtedly cause major embarrass­ment, severe trauma and intense humiliation; that I will be required to contort myself, for long periods of time, into such positions as may cause muscle strain, cramping, trembling fits and permanent disfiguration; and that shortness of breath, dizziness, fatigue, nausea, Kalamazoo complexes, hyste­ria and death may also occur in the process." 
Really, it was that whole risk of death thing that I was most uncomfort­able with. 
"Death?!?!" I said. "But I'm just get­ting my picture taken!!!" 
"Oh, but you're not JUST getting your picture taken," the receptionist replied. "You've signed up to get the T­3000, for-the-aesthetically-lacking­and-chronically-unphotogenic, 4 73­pose (because quite frankly that's how many tries it's gonna take to get ONE semi-unatrocious picture of you), super-supreme-deluxe portrait sitting. That's high-intensity, full-contact pho­tography! -The risk of death comes with the package ... at no extra charge! Just sign the paper, dear ... oh, and do it in blood." 
And the ridiculous thing is -I did. 
Little did either of us know that that very signature would momentarily be worth millions, because I was about to claim fame as the first photographee, in the history of the T-3000 sitting, to ever actually inflict more pain and trauma on the photographer than he did on me. And I did it with amazingly little effort! Apparently I'm gifted in that way. 
Poor Leonce had no idea what was coming. 
"Greetings and salutations. I'm Leonce; that's pronounced Lee-ons, with the accent on the Lee. But, you can just call me Oh Great One. I am a photography god, the guru of all pho­tographers, a wonderboy, mastermind, genius, prodigy, miracle worker, etcetera. And in the next hour, I am going to make you look so glamorous that ... " he trailed off as he took a clos­er look at who he had to work with. "Well, I'll make you look ... urn ... uh ... " I laughed, flashing my trademark wonky smile (giving him a fuller under­standing of the magnitude of the chal­lenge I was presenting him with}. He sighed and said, "Well, we'll do what we can. 
"O.K. now. Let's begin with the tradi­tional shots, shall we? Have yourself a seat on that stool. Turn your knees 90 degrees to the left, your shoulders 90 degrees to the right; turn your head a full 360 degrees, cock it to the side; point your ehin this way and your nose that way; stick your foot in your car, your fist in your eye, and give me a nice big smile! ... No, a smile. That's more of a cringe ... No, now that looks more like a death stare. Show me a smile ... a SMILE!" 
I was trying. I really was. But the intense pain I was experiencing because of my body configuration seemed to disrupt my concentration. Leo nee just wasn't satisfied with my performance, so he brought out the side show: He shook rattles and banged tambourines; he made zany faces and danced a little number in a tutu, and he did a brilliantly captivat­ing linger-puppet show, all the while shouting rabidly, "This is funny! Isn't this funny?-Now smile, for God's sake, SMILE!" 
And I tried. I strained; I struggled, grunting and groaning, my body pop­ping and snapping with every effort. But, in my last desperate attempt to produce the desired smile, I strained so hard I blew an artery and fell off the stool! 
While I unwound my neck, untwisted my body and attempted to restore feel­ing to my extremities so that I might patch up my gargantuan, gaping, bloody wound, Leonce went to the nearest wall and banged his head against it. He came back talking to himself, "It's alright. It's O.K. I like a challenge. I can deal with this ... " 
lie then suddenly became delusional­ly optimistic. "Aha! I know what we need! Yes, I know precisely what we need! We need a change of scenery!" And he began madly pulling down background screens. ''I'm envisioning you in Siberia! Or maybe Zendali. No, Germany! Definitely Germany! But, we need something else ... we need ... Ah, yes! I know!" And he disappeared into his "Box o' Props and Other Wacky Stuff' and emerged with a pair of lederhosen. "Now put these on and stand in front of Germany. It'll be pre­cious! Simply marvelous! O.K., smile! No, no-not a goofy smile. Let's go with more of a ... a happy smile. Yes, let's do happy. Now, work with me. Happy. Happy. Come on, work with me. WORK WITH ME! Grrr! 
"O.K. -perhaps we need to clarify. When I say "work with me," I'm mean­ing it not in the optional, rhetorical sense of the phrase, but more in the obligatory sense. O.K.? So, now try to work with me on this one. We're now going to go for sassy. Heady? Give me sassy! No, NOT scary! Sassy! SASSY, I SAID, NOT SAUCY! SASSY! SASSY! SASSY! Is that REALLY so mueh to ask?!" 
lie pounded his forehead with both fists, jumping up and down and screaming in what I'm guessing was a fit of rage, "Four years of elite training in Paris, two years in New York, 25 years in the business, and this is what I'm reduced to?!?! For God's sake­I've worked with MONKEYS who were less difficult than you!!! Is it REALLY so hard?! Are you TRYING to make this a painful experience?! Because it pains me! I am in great and excruciating pain! Can you see my pain?!" 
I could. He most definitely looked like he was in pain. He was steaming and fizzing, stomping, sputtering, tieing, throbbing, thrashing, convulsing ... 
"Geez," I thought. "Maybe I should have asked HIM to sign a liability waiv­cr. 
Kathy Scheibel is a senior Arts and Letters major. Her columns appear every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
LAC£Y//(/H#'8 UM... LAC:&'Y­OH, !?eAR.. ... 7H/3N
POS!­
Ill~ Y()(I! 1«3 YOUR. 515TeR. I twNl?13R tf/HO 
TIV/3-.
/{/131?£A80UT ~l?lbl? 7H/3 NIC/3 LAl?YIN 70 CALL. 7H& OF§CARt&T lH/3 KITOitW /!3,POUC&l ~V6R..MANY YeAR5AGO. 
I 

"" 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Drugs have taught an 
entire generation of 
American kids the metric 
system." 
-P. J. O'Rourke 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, November 14, 1997 page 9 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 
Church Officials Not Leading the Diverse MeiDbership 

For me, this past week was an emo­tional mixed bag of religious bombard­ments. Three events made me wonder about what seems to be a lack of diplo­macy and conscience in today's Church hierarchy. Just how far are the leaders of the Catholic Church and its educa­tional institutions drifting from issues its members embrace? 

Gary Caruso 
First. beloved Notre Dame graduate Regis Philbin, Class of '53, appeared on HRO's showing of a 1995 film entitled, "Open Season," in which a television 
• executive constantly measures his penis. As the ratings increase or decrease for his network, the over­weight TV executive's penis and his attraction by women grows or shrinks. 
What the hell type of program is that for our squeaky clean-imaged Irish Catholic alumnus? His appearance as a commentator is not merely a transgres­sion or opportunity for Regis during his early career while he was trying to "make it" in the business. It was pro­duced two years ago during the height of his popularity. 
Don't get me wrong, I like Regis. In fact, I conducted tours of the White House and Capitol Building for him and his son a few years ago. Personally, I could care less about what productions he chooses. But if I was a conservative Catholic zealot, I would be calling for Notre Dame administrators to ban him from any "official" participation of cam­pus or university events. After all, that would bn the· only stand to take if one wants to "correctly" represent "the" premier Catholic higher educational institution and preserve its closely guarded public image. 
Phil Donohue, Class of '59, former talk show host and the pioneer of the current talk show format, has had his unofficial woodshed whipping. He is welcome at Notre Dame, but will never be the lead blocker for any publicity 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
campaigns. Last Christmas season, he hosted gay Notre Dame alumni at his New York apartment and has spoken out against all types of controversial issues. Maybe now that Regis has tar­nished his golden halo, he and Phil can sit together at future home games close to the clouds in the new upper section of the stadium. 
The second event of last week hap­pened here in Washington, and greatly disappointed me. It involved a case where a Church leader at a Catholic educational institution let his authori­tarian and dogmatic personality best his diplomacy or at the least stifle his abili­ty to investigate and search for the truth. It is another example of how few Church leaders today seem to have the combined qualities of patience, toler­ance and diplomacy. 
Catholic University's president recent­ly rescinded his alumni association's prestigious achievement award which was scheduled to be presented to Joseph R. Sicari, Class of '56, an openly gay film and stage actor. Sicari has appeared in such TV programs as "Sfi)infeld," "NYPD Blue," "Law and Order" and "Hill Street Blues." Last year he appeared in Washington at the Kennedy Center with Jerry Lewis in "Damn Yankees." He was also one of the founding attendees at the first meet­ing of a gay protest group called, "ACT UP," which is outspoken against issues of discrimination. 
CU's president, Brother Patrick Ellis, seemed to take a page out of Notre Dame's rhetorical repertoire by issuing a statement that said, "The award is not being granted because of the individ­ual's involvement with the founding of and connection to an organization whose actions and activities are incon­sistent with the university's mission and sponsorship." Ellis concluded that since Sicari was a founding member of ACT UP, he must have been involved in the 1989 protest and disruption of a mass being said by Cardinal John O'Connor at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. 
According to Sicari, he had submitted the information that he was a founding member of ACT UP with his biography to CU several months ago. The lUliver­sity informed him of his selection of the award, then contacted him regarding the reversal of the selection just two weeks before the ceremony. In a tele­phone conversation with Ellis, Sicari said he was not aware of the protest incident at St. Patrick's because of his work in Hollywood. Sicari said, "I told him [Ellis] that [the protest] was some­thing I could never support. He said he found it hard to believe that I did not know about this incident because it received so much publicity." 
Robert Miailovich, national president of the gay Catholic group Dignity USA, said Ellis' action was reminiscent of the "McCarthy era tactic of guilt by associa­tion. It's unfortunate that Brother Ellis is jumping to conclusions for someone based on the actions of others." He deduced, "This may be a consequence of the lack of a dialogue between Church leaders and Gay people." 
The third incident last week tied the first two together for me. Our priest during last week's homily at St. Matthew's Cathedral in Washington, said one sentence that was quite thought provoking. He explained the early history of the Catholic Church along with how the Lateran Basilica, not the Vatican, is still the cathedral church of the city of Rome. Pointing out that the Pope's seat as the Bishop of Rome comes from the Lateran Basilica, the priest said, "Never in the Church's history has every one of its followers agreed with all of their leaders' teach­ings, but we have always had a good solid foundation from which to sustain the Church up until this very day." 
I pondered the priest's words. How far must some dissenters go before the Church will explain, rethink or modify a position? Does the Church have to depart from its teachings altogether, or can it reach out in a diplomatic way to bring Catholics back into the fold? Is just an understanding of the reasons why Catholics left the Church enough to begin the reconnection between Church leaders and non-practicing members? 
Recently the American Catholic Bishops released a new position paper calling on parents of gay children to love their children, not to forsake and disown them. Without parting from Church dogma, the bishops used rea­son, tolerance and diplomacy to begin to reach out to an age group that expe­rienced more suicides than any group in the Church. Must deaths by suicide be the ultimate impetus to move the more traditionally stubborn leaders into some type of action? 
It seems to me that of all the organi­zations in the world, the Catholic Church should be the most open and attractive. It should have been the Catholic Church that stood up strongly for the Jewish race during World War II, thus avoiding recent apologies. The Catholic Church, with its long history of being oppressed, of enduring suffering and discrimination, should be the one institution that would be the first to stand up for anyone in the world who is oppressed today. 
Conservatives harp on the "special treatment" given to gays, women or affirmative action programs. Regardless of the so-called "evils" asso­ciated with those who fall in these cate­gories, the measure should be reversed. If anyone is given any negative "special exceptions," then they are truly dis­criminated against. All that the Equal Rights Amendment of the 1980s pro­posed was an end to "exception," not special treatment. All that gays want today is not to be the "exception" in the work place, on campus, in church or in the home. 
When the "exceptions" are eliminated through tolerance, forgiveness, pru­dence and guidance in our society, then the gay teenage suicides will subside, the Joseph Sicari cases will never occur, and Church leaders will truly lead by shining example. For the Catholic Church, the mission Jesus demanded of his followers is to eliminate exceptions. Now that American Bishops have begun a wonderful first step, other church offi­cials, most notably educational ones, should reexamine their approaches to issues and begin drifting back towards the needs of a diverse and changing membership. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for 18 years and for the International Union ofElectronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is dchottline@hot­mail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

All Talk and No Action: Discrimination Continues 
For the past five semesters (and I'm sure longer), the Notre Dame community has witnessed an ongoing bat­tle dealing with race relations on our campus. My freshman year focused around opinions by Christiane LikPiy and Fred Kelly. Their contributions were quite controversial and met with numerous Observer editori­als, seminars. lectures. and meetings. Last year, the incident involving Nicole Hannah sparke<;l emotions oncP again. The response was very similar-editori­als. seminars. lectures, and meetings. Not to be "disap­pointed" this year, Dan Sullivan has provided us with yet another racially motivated situation. Wait, let me guess ... editorials, seminars, lectures, and meetings?? 
When do the results of this repeated cycle finally sur­face?? When do we finally really step it up and put our money where our mouths are? There is nothing wrong with dialogue; in fact it can be very effective. While it is a necessary and crucial first step, when do we decide to take merely discussing one step further? I can hon­estly see the administration viewing us the student body as absolutely no threat to their current agenda and course of action; we are a pesky, annoying, yet harmless little bunch of gnats that will simply be shooed away at the semester end. 
I am tired and, quite frankly, ashamed at our past and current efforts to remedy racial and other conflicts at our home. It's time to create some waves and find some courage; it's time to accompany our pens, discus­sions, meetings, and Observer with telephone calls, personal visits, rallies, and demands. Otherwise (and the most unfortunate scenario), it's time to stop hear­ing the same arguments and opinions year after year because they obviously are having no long term effect. 
Last semester, the College Democrats led a demon­stration in front of the Dome dealing with non-discrim­ination. It was well attended and fairly effective at the time; my hat is off to them. However, what happened after that?? Sure we got in one blow, but what hap­pened to the second, third, and knock-out punch? I must admit that I am just as guilty as the next. At the end of last semester, a group of us assembled to try to begin some sort of action. However, with the stresses and time commitments of finals and moving out, noth­ing ever became of our efforts. It seems, at least to me, that this is a fairly common outcome of the many attempts at improving our situation. 
I must also admit that I can offer very few solutions myself (I would like to see an extension of the L TR retreat and more rallies/demonstrations). However, this is where the right kind of dialogue can be helpful. Instead of centering discussions around what has hap­pened, talks and meetings need to be focused on solu­tions and improvements. While this is the most diffi­cult, it is also the most necessary. · 
It amazes me that someone could not find Dan Sullivan's comic strip offensive. There was widespread panic, alarm, and action when the Stanford marching band disgraced Catholics by making fun of the Irish Potato Famine (clearly we could all see how that was offensive). But yet little is done when a different eth­nic/religious group is the center of mockery. How are the two situations any different?? 
Something needs to change at Notre Dame, and it needs to change now. We as a university and we as humane individuals cannot afford to continue down our current path; it's time to choose the road less trav­eled by. 
Like Jimmy Friday once challenged in a speech last year dealing with improving race relations, "The Dome is rusted and tarnished; now join me and let's go polish it back to golden." 
Josh Gerloff Junior, Keenan Hall London Program November 12, 1997 




~----~--~-----r~-.~----~----~---··--------,-------~---.--~---------~-~------~~----~~--------------­
ACCENT 
November 14, 1997 
~ 


Capturing the Caiu 


',jplace to enjoy son1e good food
T 

~Stadimn Club -also right next to Founded-1855; opened Jan. 2, 1860 
~Sports and not too different 

Enrollment -26,851 (~Varsity and Chime -Located on the
First superintendent-William Tecumseh Sherman, who resigned to assume a command in the Union Army during 
far end of Campus on Chhne and the Civil War 
State St. Go there for a little variet). j~Stadium capacity-79,940; opened 1924 
:!i 
:~ 
~

The oak trees on campus have been valued at $36 million 
~""""'""'£~~~~~~'9i~~.o.;.N"..J 
In the mood for some downhome cooki 
Caiun Masterpieces that'll really wh 
The success of many Cajun and Creole recipes depends upon the Remove skin from Chicken, cut up and cook over low heat in 2 quarts water 
proper execution of making a roux (pronounced "roo")! Roux, a French until tender. Pull meat from bones, reserve stock. Make a 
word translated as "reddish brown," is the basis of many traditional In a large stew pot, combine all ingredients in stock 
Louisiana recipes. It is worth the time to learn how to do this Shrimp and Celery. Cook until okra is tender, about 
properly. Its directions are deceptively simple. If you burn the meat, Shrimp and Celery. Simmer about 10 
raux, THROW IT AWAY, wash the pan, and start over. A burned raux will Serve over Rice. 
ruin the taste of the entire dish. 
The three main categories of roux are light raux (often referred to Maque Choux 
as a "blond" roux), dark roux (a deep brown color), and a medium roux It's a simple dish, but takes some time to make 
(golden brown). Each different color is attained by how long you cook correctly. · 
it. You will develop certain preferences for the darkness of the raux 
and often the recipes will call for a light or dark raux. -8 to 10 ears of cleaned corn 
BASIC DIRECTIONS FOR CREATING A ROUX: In a frying pan (a cast iron -1/2 cup finely chopped onion 
skillet works the best), melt 1/2 cup of shortening or use 1/2 cup of -1/4 cup chopped bell pepper 
cooking oil. For a truly authentic and full bodied flavor, make your -3~up peeled & chopped fresh tomato 
raux with fresh bacon grease (on those occasions when arteries don't ·sugar 
matter so much!). After melting the shortening or grease, slowly add 
1/2 cup of flour. Stir the mixture until it is smooth and creamy and 
continue cooking and stirring over a medium high heat for five minutes. 
Reduce the heat to medium and continue cooking, stirring to keep from 
sticking. For a light raux, heat about 10 minutes more; for a darker 
roux, about 15 minutes. The rich reddish brown color is easily 
recognizable. If you have pan drippings from a roast or other meat, 
add it in and keep cooking. 
When a recipe calls for making a raux, the 1/2 cup of flour to 1/2 
cup of shortening is a good starter for the roux. Oftentimes, though, 
you will want to make a little more raux and add it to the dish if it CRAWFISH AND EGGS: 
is not thickening up as you would wish. The making of the raux and 1 dozen eggs 
Cajun cooking in general is a "practice makes perfect" art. Recipes 1/4 c. heavy cream 
are considered by the seasoned Cajun cook to simply be guidelines to 1 lb. frozen crawfish 
orchestrating a highly personalized gastronomic rhapsody. 1/3 cup butter 
Copyright. Samantha Kaye, "My Dead Daddy's Cajun Recipes," 6/94 salt, pepper and Tob 
1 cup chopped green 
White River Gumbo 
1 whole Chicken Combine eggs, 
1/2 C. Vegetable Oil Melt butter in 
3/4 C. Flour Add egg, cream 
1 10oz. package Frozen Okra Add crawfish and 
1 Bell Pepper (diced) When finished 
1 6oz. can Tomato Paste Hemove to warm 
2 quarts Chicken Stock Serve with bacon, 
1 Tbs. Kitchen Bouquet treat. 
1 Tbs. Worcestershire Sauce Serves 6. 
1 lb. Salad Shrimp 
2 C. Celery (chopped) Rice Jambalaya with Pork 
1 Onion (chopped) One of my favorite recipes book (Mrs. David 
White River Gumbo Pouch La Fleur of Ville Platte). 
or 2 oz. Cajun Spice 

(2 servings) 


THE FIGHT SONG 
Like knights of old we f"~ght to hold 
The glory of the Purple and Gold 
\\'e'll carry through we'll die or do 
To win thh~ game for LSU 
Keep trying for the final s(•ore 
(~ome on you Tiger"' fight for more, for more 
I 
Come you Tigers f~ght, fight, f~ght For dear old LSU. 
r-=-=.r:..n.~~.....-:=:~---~....~.:r:---7:=:::a:::...~:i"--£":..:..-_-.E.£".==:ff-3':3£-:?.::·.:;:;~..::;~-".:.'::':~ 
m What to do :~ ~~For those of you diehard fans who ~ jjJare roadtripping down to the Bayou, .. ;~here are some hangouts highly ijJregarded by the staff of the LSU Rag 
~Time. 
.,, 
~q 

ti!Sports -located on Bob Petit Dr., alright next to cmnpus~~Fred's -right next to Sports, a good 
ACCENT
November 14, 1997 

n Spirit 

'2• 
Here are some your appetite 
pound pork sausage tp raw rice 2 cups water ~up celery :up onions 
:up diced green bellpeppers up diced red bellpeppers up onion tops and parsley md pepper to taste 
:ausage thoroughly; add onions, celery and peppers. Cook until rd. After onions, celery and peppers are well wilted, add rice and If. salt and pepper. When this mixture begins to boil. add onion tops parsley and cook on low heat until rice is well done. 
iecy Andouille Bullard ; ground turkey '!.spoons salt teaspoons black pepper teaspoons allspice teaspoons mace heaping teaspoons thyme teaspoons cayenne teaspoons chili powder 
IS onion minced teaspoons garlic powder mspoons Wrights Liquid Smoke cup water 
c ingredients well and stuff into casings or roll into 1/2 lb rolls and ap in plastic wrap and freeze. Can be sliced into rounds and cooked in ing pan, or broken up and used to flavor other dishes. 
·cct and Sour Meatballs 
b. hamburger , c bread crumbs or tracker crumbs .'bsp minced onion ! teaspoons salt ~ teaspoons pepper 
1apn into 1" balls. Brown in a skillet in 1 Tbsp. vegetable oil. Pour f drippings. Remove meatballs. In the same skillet add: 
'4 c sugar 1/2 c pineapple juice Tbsp vinegar 2 Tbsp cornstarch /2 c water 2 Tbsp soy sauce 
3ring to a boil, stirring constantly until thick and brown. Add 1 large ell pepper cut into 1' pieces, pineapple from a 13 1/4 oz. can. Return eatballs to the skillet. Simmer for 20 minutes. Can be served over rice or noodles. 
)\reund Campus 
presents • 
the return of the 

Big Band Dance 
Learn to swing from the cats who inuented big band music. Tonight, UJSND is sponsoring its semi-annual big band dance, fe~turing Tmcedo Junction and performances by the Main Street Dance Company. Hosted in the Monogram room of the Joyce Center by radio personality 
Brother Pedro and the WSND staff, the dance begins at 7 
p.m and will end at 11 p.m. Dress is semi-formal (but you can wear a tuH if you really want to impress all of your 


friends.) Admission is $5 for students and $8 for student couples while general admission is $8 and $12 for couples. Come early, stay late and remember, "It don't mean a thing if it ain't got that swing." 

This Sunday, the India 
Association of Notre Dame and the Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana are joining hands again to bring Michiana area a top-class concert of 
Indian Classical music. Ustad Asad Ali Khan will play the Rudra Ueena, the oldest classi­cal instrument in Indian music, as part of Notre Dame's partic­ipation in the celebration of the 59th anniuersary of the 
Independence of India. Tickets 

will be auailable at the time of the concert, which will be held in the Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. General Admission is $19 and $5 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College faculty and staff. Student Admission is free. 
·•. 
• 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 14, 1997 
•NHl 

Capitals defeat Sabres, Kolzig blocks 23 shots 
The Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
Olaf Kolzig continued his career season Thursday night, stopping 23 shots as the Washington Capitals beat the Buffalo Sabres 3-2. 
While Kolzig only faced 23 shots. he kept his team in the game early and late in picking up his 1Oth win of the season in just his16th game. 
Peter Sondra's goal with 
15:32 to play was the game­winner. Adam Oates fired a pass from the side boards to Bondra, who was alone in the slot and beat Buffalo goaltender Steve Shields high on the glove side. 
It was Bondra's 10th goal and third against the Sabres in three games. 
Buffalo had tied the game 2-2 just 2:05 earlier on Derek Plante's fourth goal. Michal Grosek's pass was misplayed by Washington defenseman Mark Tinordi and Plante slid the puck past Kolzig. 

Brad May's second goal of the season at 8:43 of the first peri­od put Buffalo ahead 1-0. 
The Capitals tied the game at 
7:30 of the second on a power­play goal by Richard Zednik. Kelly Miller gave the Capitals a 2-1 lead at 6:33. 
Washington, which defeated Pittsburgh 4-1 Wednesday, is now 2-0 on its three-game road trip. The Capitals improved to 7-1-1 when leading after two periods. 
Shields stopped 32 shots in place of Dominik Hasek, who was benched by coach Linday Ruff aftef Monday's poor per­formance against Edmonton. The Sabres are winless in their last four games. 
Blues 4, Bruins 2 
Brett Hull scored his 10th goal of the season and added two assists to lead the St. Louis Blues to a 4-2 win over the Boston Bruins Thursday night. 
Hull has two goals and five assists in his last two games after failing to record a goal or an assist in the previous six games. 
The Blues are 6-4-1 in their last 11 games and have the best home record in the NHL at 9-2­
1. The Bruins are 8-4-2 in their last 14 games and are winless in their last three. 
The score was tied 2-2 after two periods as Hall Gill and Ted Donato scored for the Bruins and Blair Atcheynum and Derren Turcotte for the Blues. 
Gill scored his first NHL goal at 15:48 of the first period. The rookie was parked in front of the goal when he took a pass from Mike Sullivan and fired the puck past Grant Fuhr. 
Donato put the Bruins ahead 2-0 at 2:52 of the second period after taking a cross-ice pass from Jason Allison. Donato has 10 goals this year. 
Atcheynum beat Bruins goalie Byron Dafoe with a slap shot from the right circle at 6:38 of the second period to make the score 2-1. Turcotte's goal came on a power play at 17:47. The Bruins had allowed their oppo­nents one goal in their last 21 power-play opportunities. 
Turcotte scored on a shot from the left circle on a pass by Hull. 
Hull put the Blues ahead 3-2 at 11 seconds of the third peri­od with a rebound and Geoff Courtnall scored his eighth goal of the year at 1:34 to make the score 4-2. 
The Blues outshot the Bruins 31-13 and Boston had only two shots in the final period. The 13 shots was a season low for a Blues opponent. 
Red Wings 4, Senators 2 
Detroit captain St-eve Yzerman had two goals and an assist to lead the Red Wings to a 4-2 victory over the Ottawa Senators on Thursday night. 

Yzerman opened the scoring, assisted on his club's second goal and scored into an empty net for the defending Stanley Cup champions. 
Darren McCarty and Martin Lapointe also scored for Detroit (13-4-3) before a crowd of 18,136 at the Corel Centre. Igor Kravchuk and Andreas Dackell scored for Ottawa (9-8-3). 
With high-scoring forward Daniel Alfredsson out of the lineup with an ankle injury, the Senators continued to struggle through their first slump of the season with four consecutive losses. The Senators are 6-2-1 with Alfredsson in the lineup and 3-6-2 without him. 
Detroit entered the game in first place overall in the NHL, with the league's leading road record, top penalty killing and fifth-best power play. 
Kevin Hodson turned aside 32 of 34 shots for Detroit, while Rhodes stopped 19 of 23. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexr-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observtr reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
THAT PRETIY PLACE. Bed and  WANTED N D G A'S  .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  Hey Cool Cat,  
~-N_O__T_Ic_E_s__~l  ~~--~--~_N_T_E_D__~  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90,  TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526  Phone 631-COPY hey to everyone  Now I can use the Observer to tell you how much I miss you. Love, Chris  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  
LaFortune Student Center  earning potential!!  Toll Road, Exit #107, •  4 WV GA's: CALL 273-0428.  ... SWING ...  Aw...That's so sweet! Why don't I  
Store Hours  616-461-6772.  1-800-41 B-9487.  ...in a place you'd never imagine a  ever get stuff like that?!  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  NEED  dance. Students, staff & faculty are  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  1 conv stu tix or GA  invited to the perfect date event.  Oh son of Jarel! Kneel before Zod!  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  please call 219-271-0633  PROPERTIES.  forWV  88.9 WSND's LIVE BIG BAND  Snootchie Koochies  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  call Christian x3290  DANCE. This Friday through Gate  
(closed home football Sat's)  1997-98 NATIONAL PARK  272-6551  1 in the JACC from 7-11pm. Call1­ J. R. Dogin in the House'  
Phone 631-COPY  EMPLOYMENT -Work in America's  2 WVA stud tix, $12/tic. U need ID!  7342 for info on this "South Bend  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­ Call44465  Classic".  I'm really a little too tipsy to write  
Preserves. Companies hire entry  6551  ···swiNG ...  much now. That food fight was  
SUN, SURF, SAND, SUDS. and  level/skilled/volunteer workers.  2 WV GA for sale. Call Rob at 271­ great!  
S... Spring Break with Bianchi­Rossi Tours in Acapulco! Packages from $425.90. Party packages includes: FREE cover, VIP service,  Summer/Year-round. Competitive wages & bonuses! We can help you make the connection. (517)324­3082 ext. N55841  FOR SALE .I L.H-on_d_a-Ac-c-or-d-Ha-tc-h-ba_c_k__-1  6005 I PERSONAL  i'm getting desperate here. i need a ride to OMAHA, NEBRAS­KA for thanksgiving. please call Jon at 4-0605  Thanks, kids. There are millions of people in worlds of their own. Two of them  
& more. Call for info 800-875-4525.  1987. 93K miles.  can't let go.  
www.bianchi-rossi.com  Elementary-Jr HS Girls Basketball  v. good condition. 1 owner.  ADOPTION -LOOK NO FURTHER  "Hey gorgeous, whats your sign?  
and Boys Ice Hockey Coach/s  $3,000  A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE  Wanna go to WSND's BIG BAND  Bring me a (radioactive) shrubbery!  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  needed -responsible, dependable,  631-8672  & MIKE 2 years ago & I chose them  DANCE with me tonight?"  
from t-iD campus on U.S. 31/33.  student/grad to coach 5th-8th grade  to adopt my baby. They're wonder­ I miss Kate! Nobody woked me up  
Call (616)684-4633.  girls basketball or boys ice hockey  Near Campus-1338 Miner St.  ful parents and I couldn't be happier  Sagittarius, baby. I'll go ANYwhere  this morning! I almost missed class!  
team/s Jan-Mar. for south side  2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New  with my choice. I'm thrilled that they  with you.  
Spring Break '98  independent school, located near  Roof, Siding & Carpet.  want to adopt again! They're fun,  I'm definitely chemically imbalanced  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  Central Air & Full Basement  affectionate, professional, stable &  jon,  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free  Must be available for practice Man­ $44,900 1-800-382-2952  easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with  dude. good luck man.  And no more karate in the hall  
Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash  Thus from 1 :30­ you too. (888)690-BABY or check  
& Go Free!  2:30 or 2:15-3:15. Game schedule  their web site at  MWF Italy Lunch Bunch- I like ph-corn!  
1-800-234-7007  varies with games beginning after  MAC-12MB, CD-ROM, color moni­ WWW.MEETUS.COM  1 love you guys!  
www.endlesssummertours.com  shcool at 4:00,  tor, printer, fax/modem, $750/0BO,  What SHALL we talk about today?'  It's okay; goonies always make mis­ 
5:00, or 6:00 p.m. Paid position.  4-4322  BEN FOLDS FIVE are coming in  takes! Just try not to make any  
Ever Dreamed of Your Own  Call 291-4200 to apply.  concert to Stepan Nov. 1B!! Check  i heard beauty and the beast in  more!  
Business?  out this night of incredible music  french is really cool.  
TASP International seeks students  ...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH ...  elec guitar w/case $70 x2207  just for the sound of it! Tix at  So did Lauren make it through  
for next summer who want entre­ CLASS TRAVEL needs students to  LaFunk info desk $9 for ND, SMC,  Tim Riely- Thursday??? Or does sl'le owe me  
preneurial and management experi­ence. Positive attitude a must. Full  promote Spring Break 1998! Sell15 trips & travel free! Highly motivated  TICKETS  HCC students, $12 for public.  You are the best. Thanks again for being there for me.  dinner? Inquiring minds want know!  
training. Earn $BK to $10K. CALL 1­ students can earn a free trip & over  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  Lemme know when you want your  Let it snow, Jet it snow, let it snow!  
800-543-3792.  $10,000! Choose Cancun,  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for  Mall.  compensation!  
Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or  LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay  Now open for indoor/outdoor play.  -Colleen  Happy birthday to you, happy birth­ 
Florida! North America's largest stu­ cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or  Students w/ND-SMC ID-1/2 price  day to you, happy birthday dear  
Tutor Available for Grades K-8  dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­ (318)747-8820.  field fee. 291-2540.  Knights of Columbus rock and A.J.  Heather, happy birthday to you!  
Exper'd Cert'd Teacher  838-6411  Boyd is my hero.  
Close to ND campus  ND VS.W. VA TIX  ADOPTION Happily married couple  There are some very cute physics  
243-4984  Music Merchandiser: WHR Inc., CD  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE  with lots of love to share with new­ Aaron from Stanford- majors wandering around this  
ILOST & FOUND I  supplier to The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, is looking for a merchandiser for 1 0-15  MESSAGE 4 ND-WVU football tickets for sale.  born. Can help with doctor bills. Please, call 1-800-484-6399 X2706.  Get ready to swing! Can't wait... I am in love with Harry Connick, Jr.  campus... Lpotter is the queen of table  
hours/week. Must be available M,  Call 860-623-3682.  lneterested in a FREE ticket for Ben  dancing!  
Found • Found • Found* Found  TH. F mornings. Pick up application  Folds Five?? If you want to help  Me too!  
Piece of Jewelry in C1 Parking Lot  at Bookstore office.  4 WV GA's for sale call Erin 4-2453  load-in in Stepan from 10-3 on  It's all about the green dress ...  
near Juniper Road. Please call  Nov.18, call Ashleigh at 1-7757.  Sorry sister, he's mine.  
Dana @ 271-0250 to describe and claim. Thank you.  FOR RENT  2 West Virginia GA's for sale call Jen @ 687-8435 <-­ STOMPER BOB  Only three days left. ..  Hi Emily! How are all the boys?  
at BRIDGET'S  to see who's got the biggest  Katie-did! Come back!  
Lost: Navy Polo Blazer at the  WALK TO CAMPUS  FOR SALE 4WV GAs $32 ea +  TONIGHT!  balls of them all!!!  
..  Pangborn Formal. Call Brad at 4807 if you have it. Reward  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON  local hotel room 2 nights call Carrie @ x0764  STOMPER BOB  apparently not you .  It's that long, uncomfortable silence that I just can't get around ....  
232-2595  at BRIDGET'S  
..... LOST.....  NOTRE DAME  TONIGHT!  don antonio- Dan Cichalski recycles ...  
Help!!  FOOTBALL TICKETS  where have you been? i'm getting  Shouldn't you?  
Large Gold "Ciaudaugh" Earring  HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 98.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  ND Inquisition  lonesome...  
lost at "Finnigan's" on Friday, Nov.  4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY.  http:/lrosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu  -you know who  But I'm not that weak, you know!  
7th. If found please call Casey @  DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL.  232-0058  Who's your daddy  
634-1346. Please! I It is very spe­ FRIDGE. NEW GAS FURNACE.  CONFIDENTIAL  does anyone else miss their room­ Rhapsody in the Classifieds ....  
cial!  2 BLOCKS FROM ND. HAS SECU­ TICKET-MART, INC.  Life without me would be much  mate?!  
- RITY SYSTEM.  more unbearable!  I hope the barking man doesn't  
REWARD: Lost gold shamrock pin.  289-4712  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­ Lori'­ come to the bank today!  
Date on back. Sentimental value.  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Hope you find your lost glove.  
If found, please contact Louise at  674-7645.  219 291 7153  Maybe it found my lost hat.  Hey, Mike Day, like our back page?  
x4416.  SUBLETIING in Turtle Creek  You're a great person, you know  
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  if i could be anything, i think that i  that?!  "And I said, 'What about Breakfast  
Found-Set of keys in DeBartolo.  Call MEghan 243-7894  FOR SALE  would be a blue eyed gunslinger  -An Observer Buddy  at Tiffany's?'" -233 Lyons  
•  Call Kim at 4-4376. LOST-ROLL OF FILM AT NO­ ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726 LOW PRICES  whose name isn't really will at all. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  see, classifieds can be ok some days!  You can be MY Yoko Ono .  
USC GAME. LOST SOMEWHERE  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  LaFortune Student Center  Ever since I went to the Rad Lab  
BETWEEN STADIUM & SHUTILE BUSES. PLEASE CALL 513-922­ VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  FOR SALE N.D. G.A.'S  '-1 High-Speed Copies '-1 Canon Color Laser Copies  Corn is good for you ....  I've been glowing ....  
8756.  243-0658.  271-9412.  -.J Digital Color Printing  ...or so I've heard ....  Run away! Run away!  
-.J Binding & Laminating  


Friday, November 14, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Expen'ence the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesftom Notre Dame. 
• A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 


Tuesday, November 18 • More than 114 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 
• Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 Come visit us at $~:;,~

,,·rmryrummr~dW' ib;;t;~~e 
North Shore Club ~~,~;Reveshment~wilrb'~ pr Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily

'?;t. Spdhsored by;iBadin, Breen Phillip 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m.

-~;W•·W·Ytjl!anaugh, Fcii'{ey, Keenan, Knott, Lew . · 'Mornssey, Pangborn, Pasquerilla West, and Zahm alls 219-232-2002 • 800-404-42 75 
• SAINT MMtv's SWIMMING 
Saint Mary's dunks Olivet, prepares for Calvin College 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's SportS Editor 
The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team has once again emerged from the water victo­rious. The Belles won Tuesday night's meet against Olivet College, 134-55. 
. "The girls swam all of their off events. and we still won every single swimming event," said Saint Mary's head coach Jini Cook. "All have improved since they started the season." 
The Belles received a rock solid performance from Oliva Smith. Smith swam the 1,000­meter for the first time and fin­ished the race in 11:59.00. 
"She had an incredible swim," said Cook. "It's really something for a swimmer to break the 12-minute mark the first time they swim it." 
Sophomore co-captain Michelle Samreta swam the 100-meter butterfly and 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute -Tae kwon do and jujitsu practke forheginners. will take place from 4 to 6 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 

p.m. 
on Sundays in Rooni2l8 Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. 


dropped three seconds from her time. The 200-and 500­meter freestyle races were swum by senior co-captain Allison Smith who had a solid race time. 
The diving team took second, third and fourth place in the meet. Junior Sara Levandusky received her highest score ever. She attributes the divers' improved performance to a number of factors. A new style of coaching has helped the divers see things in a new per­spective. They are using differ­ent imagery and focus points when they dive. Experience gained through competition has also been important. The divers have become more controlled and comfortable on the boards. Team unity has helped the divers learn from each other. 
The Belles are getting ready for their next meet which will be held on Saturday at Calvin College. 
will be on Mondays and m·p.m; 
of Notre of Music presents 
J\h£nb::MUSIQ 
VESPERS & MASS FOR THE DEDICATION OF A CHURCH 
9:30p.m. Wed., Nov. 19 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
~cbola fflustcor 
Free and open to the public. 
• SAiNT MARY's SWIMMING 
Smith, Samreta inspire Belles 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
When Saint Mary's swim­ming and diving co-captains Allison Smith and Michelle Samreta walk onto the deck, there is a great team bonding that occurs. The two seem to gel their team members together. 
"They don't treat the fresh­men like newcomers," said Saint Mary's head coach Jini Cook. 
With six freshman looking up to them, the co-captains are looking to lead by example and show the underclassmen that swimming is a great sport. 
"''m very determined to do the best I can, but I also want to have fun with it," said Smith. "It should be more about fun than anything." 
As a Division III college, Saint Mary's athletes do not receive scholarships. "We are swimming because we want to," said Samreta. 
Enjoying what they are doing has translated into some extra­ordinary accomplishments. Between the two, they hold a total of 10 school records. 
Smith, a nursing major from Boca Raton, Fla., holds eight school records. 
"I didn't know what to expect [coming in]," said Smith, look­ing back on her freshman year. 
It didn't take long for her to show Saint Mary's what a tal­ented swimmer she was. In her freshman year alone, she broke seven school records. 
The first three record break­ers came in December 1994 when she swam to a school best time of 2:00.46 in the 200­meter freestyle, 5:13.82 in the 500-meter freestyle, and was a member of the 400-meter freestyle relay team with a time of 3:51.37. 
In the spring of 1995, Smith was once again in top form to shatter four more records. Smith swam the 1000-meter freestyle in 10:41.35, the 1650­meter freestyle in 17:40.63, the 200-meter butterfly in 
2:18.96 and the 400-meter medley in 4:49.75. 
Smith ended her freshman season with a trip to nationals. She placed ninth, a finish which earned her the distinc­tion of all-American. 
Samreta, a sophomore edu­cation major from Hobart, Ind., took her place in the record books last year as a freshman. She broke school records in the 100-meter and 200-meter breaststroke with times of 1:12.23 and 2:38.47, respectively. She was also a member of the 400-meter medley relay with Smith. Samreta received the rookie­of-the-year award in 1996. 
"Michelle works really hard," said Smith. "She's really moti­vated and mentally focused." 
"Michelle really gets people moving," added junior driver Sara Levandusky. "She is always encouraging everyone to cheer for each other." 
As the only senior on the team, the underclassmen look to Smith for leadership. "Allison is very much a role model," said Levandusky. "She is very dedicated to the team." 
"Allison shows everyone the ropes," echoed Samreta. 
Both captains enjoy being the team leaders and their enthusiasm is evident in the enthusiasm they inspire. 
With the season already under way, the women are looking to achieve the goals they set for themselves at the beginning of the season. For Smith, a return to nationals is the ultimate goal. 
"Allison is extremely focused and knows what ·she wants and is going after it. She's got this fire inside her," said Cook. 
Breaking her own personal times is something Samreta would like to accomplish this season. 
"Michelle is a hard worker, and very attentive to the detail of her strokes. She gives it 100 percent when she gets on the blocks," said Cook. 
For both women, having an enjoyable season is a major goal. 
Both see the value that ath­letics has brought to their own lives. 
"Swimming helps me budget my time and get stress out," said Smith. "These past foilr years on the swim team have been a very rewarding experi­ence." 

hat: Ice Skatins When: November 16th 
5:30-7:30 
Where: J.A.C.C. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 14, 1997 
• JOCK STRIP 

Optimistic outlook for Irish 
As the college football sea­son comes to a close, college basketball has just kicked off the beginning of another sea­
~  ~ t nr  ~  John Coppoiella  
D  a m e ,  Sports Wri[er  
fresh  off  

its Elite Eight performance in the NIT tournament, comes into this year with dreams of moving into the upper echelon of the Big East and reaching the NCAA tournament. 
With arguably their deepest team during the John MacLeod era, the Irish figure to be in the middle of the hunt throughout this exciting year. 
The Irish figure to be com­petitive this year in the Big East. but this year's Big East differs significantly from last year's conference. 
The rebirth of the University of Connecticut and Syracuse should reestablish the strength of this conference, which sent less teams to the NCAA tournament than the supposedly inferior Atlantic 10 Conference. 
While teams like Providence and Villanova were decimated by graduation and the NBA draft, the Irish figure to put a team eerily similar to last year's out on the court this year. 
Where do the Irish fit into the mix of Big East teams? That's a question that can't be answered at this point. 
Reigning Big East player of the year Pat Garrity will lead the Irish, but will be unable to do it alone as he did for most of last year. 
The way that the Irish place, both in terms of the Big East and national rankings, will be contingent upon the extent to which Garrity's supporting cast alleviates the pressure that will be placed on him by opposing defenses every game. 

Particularly, the Notre Dame backcourt will be crucial to the success of the Irish. The graduation of starting guards Admore White and Pete Miller have placed Antoni Wyche and Martin Ingelsby in the starting guard roles for the time being. 
Keith Friel and Jimmy Dillon will share minutes with these two and challenge them for their starting jobs. 
If the Irish are going to be successful, at least one of these guards will have to step up as an offensive threat capable of diverting pressure from Garrity. 
Ultimately, the NCAA tour­nament is not out of reach for the Irish although a return to the NIT tournament may be a bit more realistic. 
While the Irish figure to be competitive in the rejuvenated Big East, teams predicted to lead the conference will place in the top 25 nationally, but may be unrepresented in the top 10. 
In what figures to be one of the more exciting years in memory, the top spot in col­lege basketball is up for grabs. 
Who is the best team in col­lege basketball? Let's take a look at the Final Four. 
Last year, Arizona won the tournament behind the lead­ership of three superstar s­Bibby, Simon, and Dickerson -who are all returning. They beat Kentucky, who managed to lose all three of its supers­tars -Mercer, Anderson, and, most importantly, Pitino -to the NBA. 
Providence and Minnesota were also hurt by the draft and figure to struggle to make the tournament again. Kansas, who arguably has the most depth in the country, has 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 

"EASILY THE FIRST GREAT FILM OF 1997!" 
-JL'tfrt') I)UII~. ~lll -I\ 
I I 

"One of the Most Galvanizing Films ofthe Year!" 

been the No. 1 pre-season team for three years now but has always petered out in the NCAA tournament. 
The best team in college basketball is the team with the most talent, UCLA. 
While the best freshman in the nation will probably be Larry Hughes from Saint Louis University, the Bruins recruit­ing class for this season includes another freshman phenom, Baron Davis. 
Add him to a mix that includes Toby Bailey, Jelani McCoy, JR Henderson, Kris Johnson, and freshman Schea Cotton, and you have a team with six legitimate NBA prospects. 
Coach Steve Lavin, after a bumpy initiation that included a 48-point loss to Stanford early last year, has estab­lished himself as an apt replacement for Jim Barrick and has shown that he knows how to use his talent appro­priately by balancing out the egos of his many superstars. 
Although McCoy and Johnson are temporarily sus­pended for violating team rules, they should be back in time to gel with the rest of the team and lead UCLA to the promised land. 
What about the Irish? A very optimistic view has them making the NCAA tournament and possibly advancing a round or two. However, you never know what could hap­pen in Irish hoops (MacLeod was Big East coach of the year). 
In Pat Garrity's last year, the Irish need to succeed now or wait a couple years for next year's excellent recruiting class to come to fruition. Either way, this college bas­ketball season should be a fine substitute for the college football season it is following. 
• CROSS COUNTRY 

os~~ason begins 
ar~ seni~r' all:~~~ii&an J~~n 
Re~ing, j\tniors A.ntQ,rlio Ar~<l fl,nd. Ryati Maxwell, and fresh­man Rya:i1Shay. 
The worn teamt which · placed fo\il't ·. . . th~ Big Ea$t Irivitational.Jsra:nked among thf3 top 30 in the nation. ·. Howev~r, in the satne district as the Iri.sh.har~ N<L .,.·.~.· Wisconsin; No, l 0 11,1ichig~n,J'he top t\VO ~ahis)l.t each of and top-30 teams !V[atqu,ette 
nine< districts from· a(:ross the and Ohio Unive:r:sity. · . . . .. 
couhtry r~feW~ ~\l~~J:9~tic bids "Our ultimate goal would be ~9r. tlaticirlals, aloi)g with four to. qualify for the. NCAA$,'' said at•litrge teatn!l• Tlie goal of assistant coach Ti:tn Connelly. ~oth.Notre Dame<squads is to "Our kids are very tit, and qualify as a teatn for nationals, they're healthy. I think their butthey must first defeat the performance at the Big East competition... really gave them a big boost. 
The rnen's team, already They're very confident." crowned Big East champions; The women's goal is to quali~ is one ofthetop teams in the fy as a team, butthey also l;tave nation, hut,the competition some individuals with a very poses a formidable threat for good chance to qualify, specifi~ the Irish. Six ofthe 13 top­cally JoAnna Deeter and Alison ranked teams in the country Klemmer. are in Notre Dame's district, as "I think the team had some are four of the top nine. downfalls la·st year at this 
"This is unquestionably the meet. Hopefully, those bad toughest district in the coun­things will turn out to be things try," said head coach Joe that we learned from," said Piane. "If you put any two of Deeter. ''I'm planning on going the top six teams in our district out in front with the top five in another district, they would and going from there." qualify." "As a team, we're hoping to 
The men hope to be in the beat Michigan. That's the way top two as they cross the fmish we're going to qualify for line but may also have a nationals," Klemmer said. chance to receive an at-large Both coaches described the bid if they place third or fourth. course as hilly and challenging 
"I think winning the Big East but very fair. They hope to gave them a real shot in the return to Notre Dame tomor­arm, a real boost of confidence. row knowing that they have They think they can make it," one meet left this year, but it said Piane. will be a challenge. Out of 308 
Besides qualifying as a team, Division I cross country individual runners can qualify schools, only 22 qualify. by being among the top three "It's pretty cut-throat," said finishers who are not on one of Piane. "If you make it to the the top two teams as long as national championships, you're they are in the top 15 overall. a great team. Not a good team, Top individuals for the Irish a great team." 

SENIORS BLSINESS MAJORS. ECONOMICS MAJORS. CAPP MAJORS. 
UNSUI)f Of VOUI) fUJlJI)f? INTff)fSTtD IN GI04DUATt SCHOOl? SttKING A CHAllENGING AND f)fWAI)D/NG CAI)fff)? 
THE MASTER OF SCIENCE IN ACCOLNTANCV PROGRAM MAY BE THE ANSWER! 
The Mosler of Science in Accounlonc4 program is a lwo-semesler, lhirl4-hour graduate program in occounlonc4. M.S. in Accounlonc4 students mo4 specialize in one of three frocks: financial Reporling & Assurance Services; Tox Services; or Managerial Accounting and Operations. We are currentl4 occepling applications for the 1998-99 academic 4eal'. You need not be an accounting majol' to appl4. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT 
Margo/ J 0'/3rien, fJpogram Adminislralol' a/631-9732 

(Call soon so that we can discuss recommended Spring Semester courses.) 
OR VISIT OUR HOME PAGE AT 
www. nd. edu/~msaccl 



l 

Friday, November 14, 1997 . The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 ..-­
~
..I 

RAD I 0 88.9 FM 
-PRESENTS ­
T H E 
t~ 
a n c·e 
l
l 
I 
Featuring _ ''~uHedo Junct1on II 
Friday, Nouember -14 
l •• 
~· 4
7:00 PM -11 :00 PM 
I I I I 
' 
I 
' 
'

· ... Joyce., Center 
I 
I 
' 
I 
-
I I I I I

Monogram Room Concourse I I I 
4 
•

•
•
(Gate 1) 
j l I 
I 
~ 
•I 
I I I 
I I I 
•I 
I I

$5 Per Person 
I I -I I
Student s: I I I I I
$8 Per Couple 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

'· I
I

General $8 I Person 
I I

• 
Admission· $1 2 1 Couple I f._ I I I 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 14, 1997 
• VOllEYBAlL 

Notre Dame ends conference season on the road 
By BILL HART currently tied for sixth place and West Virginia -are tied Sports Writer with two other teams. with 5-4 records, while Seton Hall is led by senior hit­Hutgers, Seton Hall and 
The Notre Dame volleyball ter Jennifer Cheshire, who Providence each are 4-5 in con­team finishes off its third sea­recently tallied 21 kills in a ference play. son in the Big East with anoth­five-game loss to Georgetown. Having to use tie-breakers to er trip eastward to play confer­Earlier last weekend, she decide the seeds is not uncom­ence rivals Rutgers and Seton turned in a rare 30-kill perfor­mon. In 1996, three teams Hall. Despite unimpressive mance in a five-game win over were tied for fifth place with 6­
records, both teams are in the Villanova. Currently, the 5 records. Two of those teams hunt for berths in the Big East, Pirates are 4-5 in the Big East -St. John's and Connecticut­and after losing to the Irish for and 16-12 overall. went on to the tournament two straight years, feel they Notre Dame (19-6, 9-0) has while Georgetown was forced have something to prove. been on a hot streak over the to end its season early. 
The Irish will start their latter half of the season, having Some of the freshmen players weekend schedule on Saturday won six straight matches and on Notre Dame's squad haveI when they face off against 13 of its last 14. Over last stepped up in their first year of
I 
I Rutgers -one of this year's weekend, the Irish secured at collegiate. play. Freshman ~ many "middle-of-the-pack" least a share of their third Christi Girton currently ranks 
I 
teams. Despite a disappointing straight Big East title with two second in the Big East with a
I 
I 1-10 conference season last wins over West Virginia and .360 hitting percentage. 
I 
I year, the Scarlet Knights have Pittsburgh. The Irish could "Christi broke into the start­
•I managed to prove their worth secure sole possession of first ing lineup in late September," I to the conference. Last week,
I place with one more conference head coach Debbie Brown said. I the Scarlet Knights split two win this weekend. "Since then she's really been
I 
I matches, defeating Georgetown The Irish have won their past doing a great job at opposite."
•I in four games but losing to 72 conference matches heading Classmate Denise Boylari has I Villanova in four. into the final week of confer­also played well, running an
I 
The Scarlet Knights are led ence play, the longest active Irish offense which has notably
' 
' 
I by Cheri Drake, who is ranked conference winning streak in improved since the start of the I first in the Big East in hitting Division I volleyball. With wins season . 
•I 
I percentage. Over last weekend, over Hutgers and Seton Hall "You can't really tell directly I Drake had 28 kills. including 16 this weekend, the Irish could from stats how good a setter
I I 
against Villanova. Another jump to third place in the is," Brown remarked. "But, in 
• standout on the squad is fresh­record books, leaping over the the Big East, we're hitting .360, 
: 
I man Kera Carter, who tallied Texas 73-match winning streak and a Jot of that can be attrib­
•I 29 kills over the weekend. from 1984-199L uted to our setter. In non-con­I 
I Currently, the Knights are 18-Currently, Notre Dame is one ference play, we've been hitting I 15 on the season and 4-5 in of two teams that has secured a .270 which is better than we I I conference play. berth in the Big East tourna­ever have." 
I 
I On Sunday, the Irish take on ment to be held over the week­The mateh against the Pirates I Seton Hall -a team which has end of Nov. 22-23 at Seton Hall. will be the last regular seasonI I struggled over the past two Villanova, in a 3-1 win at conference mateh before next
I 
I years but has made great Hutgers, clinched the second week's Big East championship.I I strides this season. The Pirates spot. This leaves eight teams After that, the Irish will head I have already surpassed their still in the running-for the final west to face off against No. 7
•I dismal 1Oth place finish last four spots. Three of those Long Beach State and top­
I 
year with a 4-5 record and are teams -Pittsburgh, Syracuse ranked U.C. Santa Barbara.
I 

I I 
I 
I I I 
The Notre Da111e Weekly 
Fridays fro111 5:30 to 6:00p111 on ••• 

88.9 WSND-FM 
Notre Dame Public Radio 
in cooperation with 
~OBSERVER 

.. 
A drive time news show with Nate Rackiewicz & Matthew Loughran directed at the staff, faculty and students of Notre Dame & Saint Mary's wrapping up the weeks hottest news stories. This is YOUR show about YOUR campus on YOUR student & volunteer run station. 
-----~-~---­
--------....--~-----------------~--·­
Friday, November 14, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• HOCKEY 
Boys of winter hope to continue hot streak 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
In many ways, the hockey careers of junior Aniket · Dhadphale and sophomore Ben Simon mirror the history of the University of Notre Dame hock­ey team. 
Like the Irish program of the narly 80s (which was led by current head coach Dave Poulin). both Dhadphale and ·Simon have had illustrious pasts. In his freshman season, Dhadphale led the Irish in goals with 13, eonverting on 18.1 
percent of his 72 shots. 
In his pre-college career, 
Simon won almost every possi­
ble accolade for a young player, 
induding spots on international 
teams. 
But just as those glory days of 
the Irish program quickly dissi­
pated, bad times have ensued 
for both players. Dhadphale 
struggled through a sophomore 
slump last season, scoring just 
five times on 109 shots (4.6 
percent). Simon also had a diffi­
cult time finding the back of the 
net last year. 
But Notre Dame's hockey pro­
gram is back on its feet and so are the careers of these two young men. Dhadphale has already surpassed his goal total from last year. 
''I'm getting more chances this year," observed Dhadphale. "We also have a lot of talent this year, and so it makes it easier to s.core." Dhadphale also spent this past summer working with strength and con­ditioning coaches. 
"We all put in a lot of work this. summer, and that is defi­nitely helping me now," contin­ued Dhadphale. "1 just worked on II!.Y skills and honed them, and I think that I'm seeing results from that." 
Results certainly are coming in fast. Dhadphale is tied for the Central Collegiate Hockey Association league lead with seven goals. 
Simon, meanwhile, has also eclipsed last season's goal total by recording six in. Notre Dame's first eight games. 
"I think that I'm more' relaxed 
this year," explained Simon. He 
also cited this summer's pro· 
gram as contributing to his suc­
cess. "After working so hard 
together. I think that we believe 
in each other more, and we're all playing well together. The work this summer has also paid off in the third period. We're a much stronger team just because we are stronger than the opponent." 
That the Irish hold an 8-0 third-period scoring advantage proves Simon's words. The sophomore sensation leads the Irish with nine points. 
Thus far, the Boys of Winter have had the thrill of defeating some of the country's best hockey teams. The Irish have excelled at winning when they weren't supposed to, defeating Michigan State and St. Cloud State. 
Now they may face an even greater challenge, and one that may prove even more difficult -winning when they are sup­posed to win. Their opponents this weekend, Miami University and Ohio State, sit below Notre Dame in the CCI-IA rankings. This weekend presents a golden opportunity for the Irish to get precious CCHA points. 
"These are games that we must win," explained Dhadphale. "We have had trou­ble with these games before, but we are a better team this 


Induslr.la/ · Progross./vo · Holro •AJ/ornal.fvo Danoo 
_EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, All-U-Can-Eat.just 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirlo[n Butt Steak & I lb. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 
Open 5-lOpm Tues.-Thurs. & 5-llprn Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland \vith Dinner year." 

"There's no doubt that this is a big test for us," echoed Simon. "We're stronger than them and we have to show it." 
Poulin has had the team focusing on one-on-one battles iri preparation for this week­end. "The game really can be simplified to that," observed Simon. "If you win those bat­tles, then you'll be victorious." 
The Irish don't plan to adjust 
+ 
Nationwide • Free Guarantee Estimates 

+ 
Oven Baked + Expert Finish Body Repair 


+Thousands of Colors 


their play significantly to counter the passive play of the two weekend opponents. Instead, they have concentrated on honing their own skills ­better forechecking, smoother power play, and more intense defense. 
If the Boys of Winter play the game that they've used to defeat the national powerhous­es, then they will roll over Miami and OSU. 
234-1925 
Bodywork, rust repair and stripping of old 
paint extra. Vans, trucks and commercial vehicles by estimate. Additional surface preparation may be necessary. Not valid with any other offer. MAACO Auto Painting & Bodyworks centers are independent 
ill.....franchises of MAACO Enterprises, Inc. Prices, hours and services may vary. 


TS. 
Sunday Nov. 16th 1pm 141umni 'jield 
... 
. I I I I I I 

-
-

' page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 14, 1997
' I 
I I I 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 

I 




I 
•
I I 
-
Irish crush Slavyanka in preseason match-up 
By JOE CAVA TO Sheila McMillen took charge a action last night adding six little bit more. She made points and five rebounds in just
Assistant Sporrs Editor 

everybody else relax when she 12 minutes. Last night, the women's bas­kind of hit her stride." "Ruth Riley came off the ketball preseason contest was While the offense struggled, bench and gave us a great more of what can be expected shooting just 39 percent in the game," McGraw said. from an exhibition game contest, the defense hounded Riley was also productive on against a foreign team than the opposition, holding them to the defensive end coming up with two steals and making it
Monday night's triple overtime just 23 percent shooting. 
"I thought we did a lot of difficult for Slavyanka's guards 
thriller. The visiting squad from good things defensively," to work the ball inside. 
Slavyanka gave the Irish little McGraw said. "We had some Very quietly. senior guard competition as the hosts were good performances from differ­Kari Hutchinson had an excel­not overly hospitable, trouncing ent people." lent game. She played just 20 the team from Russia, 66-34. With senior guard Mollie minutes, but drained a three "Offensively, that's what I Peirick resting her ankle on the pointer on her way to five 
expected from the first game," bench in sjreet clothes, sopho­points, five assists and three head coach Muffet McGraw more Niele Ivey handled most rebounds. said. "Monday we came out and of the point guard duties. "Kari does a lot of different scored 100 points, and tonight "I thought Niele had a superb things," McGraw explained. 
we came out very tentatively." game," McGraw observed. "She "She's not going to go out there The play of the first several made things happen defensive­and score 20 points or get 15 
minutes of action can be ly and made things happen rebounds but she's going to summed up with one word -with a lot of effort." contribute in every column. She sluggish. Anastasia Mefodieva "At the beginning, I was kind makes things happen defen­
opened the scoring with a lay­of tentative and wanted to do sively, she throws great passes up nearly two minutes into the everything right," lvey said. "By and she can hit the three so she game. the second half, I was feeling has a lot to offer." 
But strong play in the paint more comfortable and being Last night's contest closed the by sophomore Julie Henderson more aggressive on defense. It . preseason for the women's bas­put the Irish on top as she all starts with defense." ketball team and every game 
answered with a jumper and a Ivey turned in another solid will start to count next Tuesday put-back for four of her six game scoring 10 points, leading when they host the Butler points. In just 18 minutes of the team with six assists, and Bulldogs. McGraw feels she play, Henderson also had nine she also added five rebounds learned what she needed to 
rebounds in the game to lead and two steals. Ivey, who was from the preseason. her team. all over the court, showed no "I think we know where we Three point specialist Sheila ill-affects from last year's knee are so I think we have expecta­
McMillen couldn't find her surgery. tions of what we can achieve, range as she went just 3-for-10 "Every game I try not to think and we certainly see room for from the fit>ld but found other about it so it's not a really a improvement," McGraw noted. 
ways to score to lead Notre factor," Ivey explained. "We have a lot of weapons, we Dame in scoring again with 16 McGraw also got another pro­have great depth, and on a 
ductive game from starting given night, I think different
points. 

"We missed a lot of easy shots freshman forward Kelley people are going to step up for early, and I think that shook Siemon who totaled eight points us. So I'm going into it with a our confidence a bit," McGraw and eight assists in 26 minutes lot of confidence, and as long as The Observer/Brandon Candura explained. "But we came out in of action. Siemon's classmate the effort is there, we're going Following last night's victory, the Irish are prepared to begin the regular season. They will host the Butler Bulldogs this Tuesday. 
the second half, and I think Ruth Riley also got into the to win a lot of games." 
/low "s this for till impres.<h·e !Jtt(/l'f ofrtfftilnlfrs! I :\'1 :11 is: 
• .I t·rtlur-/Ja.,erf rrnpomflrJ/1 fntlf /md' it< inrli/.1111'. 
• .l ptrJKI"'f.\"..\·fcr 111/ff illl/ffCtl!h:r 
Fot/1/1/(' :'i<J<I romptllt\'. 
• .\"11m/Jtr 5 o(.lmerim :uop ftl famill·fiirllrlll' mmpanit.,· (/(("()l"rfinJ! fo Busincs;\\"cck 
11/tlf!tl'~im•. 

• (.rlr/Jmritlf! /5(1 yMtx ofptrn:idinJ! MOREAU CENTER­finrmtitd pmmtion to indii"irlual.< 
t!llrl/flmilits.

LITTlE THEATRE 
NOV.l3,14,15at8pm Jim:,· to t1 /on[!. life! &NOV. 16 at 2:30pm 
CO\IE BY & SEE l'S (f\ C:A1\IPllS

Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office ~0\"E\IBER 21 in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 
OR \l;rr I·' 1"1: open Mon. · Fri., 9 am to 5pm. 
a~'ll.':rmrrnnoJtJir.mm/on/uJmm/ttiiJJPII.'i 



Credit Card orders by phone : 
219/284-4626 

UNUM 
We sufarther 
We are an equal opportuni~ employer 

BOLD-BRIGHT-BEAUTIFUL 
The Original 3-in-1 Jacket

On Sale
-
259-1000 $129.99 3602 Grape Road 
Friday, November 14, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
-

/5 MINUrt·S 
BEFORE !lit S'IR Sf,JpfED JACA" FRoSt'S 
DAlE CANcELED ON HIM. !TIJAS 1/IE!v' /IE REAL/l[/) If£ \N'A 5 ALL !>RESSE.D UP 
'WifH NOW/IER£ 
5No~4. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Magic 8 Ball 61 Go-getter 33 Curtain fabric: 63 Talk radio need
1 City west of Guantanamo 
Var. 64 Theoretical 37 Do like Durer 65 Within the legal9 Phenomenon of 

38 Swahili and are,a of play

paramnesia 
related tongues 66 Milton topic

15 Fragrant, 
40 "Shoot!"

poisonous 
41 Chicken dish

shrub 43 Pincered insect DOWN
16 Passes over 
45 Yellow-flowered

17 Squarely 1 Fair 
herb

18 Pistil-packing 2 Michigan town
47 Not clean, as a 

19 Kind of grass or its college
garment20 Inferior 3 Pinlike 
48 Escorts 

22Whata 4 Tic-toe tie 
51 Fine fiber tabaquero sAid to John
53 "-Pretty"

makes Hancock
("West Side 23 What's cooking Story" song) 6 Enhancement 24 Subject of a 54 Roger's co-star 7 Get prepared Cezanne series on "77 Sunset 8 Planetarium 26 Jazz pianist Strip" sights Ahmad 56 Buddy 9 Awesome, in 29 United States' 59 Title character teen slang second-smallest in a Peter Hoeg 10 Former Buick state capital best seller model 
_____________ 11 Seattle-born 
60's rock star ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Saw -:-r,.-r::,.,.-::-r.o 13 Of the soft palate ~=+-"t-::-~ 14 Gold diggers, in away 21 1975 Pulitzer­winning critic 23 "The Prince" 
writer 25 Speak in court 26Young 
kangaroo 27 Greek city · .-..:=-+::+=-! known to the ancients as Ambracia -::::+::+.::±:::+:::-+=-r.:-t-:+:7-1 28 Hollywood mogul Sennett 


ARIES 
People can't keep their word. There are likely to be unkept promises and mix-ups in personal talks and communications. 
TAURUS 
You'll sparkle with magic moon glow on this perfect day for romance and good times. Tonight brings clear thinking about a work­related concern. 
GEMINI 
Shared money interests are on the agenda. Otherwise, it's a lovely day to travel and enjoy cultural entertainments. 
CANCER 
Be financially prudent. Avoid a hasty use of credit. You and a close tie may have trouble making up your mind about a shop­ping matter. 
LEO 
Today you may be inclined to take things a bit too easy. Take care not to fall behind in your work. Socializing is favored, so long as you don't go over­board in spending.

STRI\P. 
VIRGO 
Today emphasizes investment concerns and joint financial security. Make important decisions involving mutual assets and credit. 

30 Like some so Simon and 57 Diminutive columns others Greek names 32 Black 
52 Burton of "Star 58 Gospel singer34 It breaks every Trek" Winans 
day 
55 BrQI.Jhaha 60"­
35 Name part: Abbr. 
we having36 Rich, as food 56 Maurice fun yet?"
39 Hit the deck, so Chevalier's to speak theme song 62Combine 42 Sang merrily 44 Walk in the shade Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 46 Kilimanjaro is are available by touch-tone phone: there 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
48 Kid's name P..nnual subscriptions are available for the 
49 "The..Rights best of Sunday crosswords from the last -., 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 



LIBRA 
Have a good time today. Travel is especially favored now, as are activities with children and fun outings to new places. 
SCORPIO 
You may find a situation at work a bit confusing. Social plans may change due :o a friend's moodi­ness. 
SAGITTARIUS 
You may feel your hands are a tied about one career matter. Coping with the sensitive egos of others will require all of your diplo­macy. 
CAPRICORN 
Major new ideas come to light. Some will be making plans for new adventure or travel. Good times are here. 
AQUARIUS 
Others may be reluctant to go along with your fmancial plans. It's not the best time to go shopping. Avoid arguments with close ties. 
PISCES 
It's another day when you'll be mentally sharp. Research or a study project may prove more rewarding than socializing. It's not a good time to loan anyone money. 
... 

... 
...
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

G sk 
..~.LIVE MUSIC 

-
-
FREE. 
8:30P.M-1 OP. 

SKANKING AVAILABLE. 

-
SPORTS Weekend 
page 20 Friday, November 14, 1997 
The Observer/John Daily Jen Grubb (in white) and the women's soccer team hope to capture another NCAA cham­pionship as they begin the tournament this Sunday at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field. 

By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
Once again, it's time for the Irish to strap on their dancing shoes. · 
For the fifth consecutive year, the Notre Dame women's soccer team has made it to the big dance. 
The team begins its quest for another NCAA championship on Sunday at 1 

... p.m. when it hosts the Bearcats of Cincinnati at Alumni Field in the open­ing round of the tournament. 
Notre Dame enters the 32-team field with the second-best winning percent­age in tournament play of this season's participants. 
The squad is 11-3 all-time in the NCAAs, having advanced to the final game three straight years. Only two teams have defeated the Irish in the NCAA tournament, George Mason (1993) and North Carolina (1994 and '96), with the Irish capturing their first national championship in 1995. 
Of the 32 teams in the tournament, Notre Dame has played five, compiling a 5-0-1 record. 
The Irish defeated third-seeded Connecticut twice, along with fifth-seed­ed Duke, seventh-seeded Portland and Michigan. 
The Irish are one of only two unde­

... feated teams in the field, with North Carolina, a team Notre Dame tied 2-2 in September, the other one. But the road to the finals will not be easy for the second-ranked Irish. Seven of the top 20 teams in the latest Soccer America poll were placed in Notre Dame's eight-team bracket, while 

the harder brackets, but I think that's good for us. We step up when we play better teams." 
For the Irish to make a fourth straight tournament championship appearance, the team would have to beat Cincinnati in the first round and then sixth-ranked Nebraska or 18th-ranked Michigan in the second round. 
Cincinnati (16-4-3) travels to Notre Dame after securing the Conference USA crown and then defeating the Trans America Athletic Conference champion Georgia State, 2-1 in over­time, to earn a spot in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
Defensively, goalkeeper Christy Hoffman anchors Cincinnati, having made 88 saves en route to registering nine shutouts and posting a 0.95 goals against average. 
Notre Dame and Cincinnati have met · four times, with the most recent match up a 2-2 tie in 1995 in Cincinnati. The Irish hold a 3-0-1 advantage, however, with wins in 1991, '92 and '94. 
In 1997, the Irish and Bearcats have two common opponents -Indiana and Michigan State. The Irish beat the Hoosiers 8-0 and the Spartans 7-0, while the Bearcats lost to Indiana 2-1 and beat Michigan State 2-1 in over­time. 
If the Irish continue their stingy defense and high-powered offense, they'll be dancing all the way to their second national title in three years. 

Notre Dame to face St. John's 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Fifth-seeded Notre Dame looks to advance to the Big East finals ·by defeating St. John's today. 
Defending Big East champs look to repeat last year's success 
By TOM STUDEBAKER 
SportS Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team enters the 1997 Big East championship with hopes of repeating the success that it enjoyed last year. This week­end will be the biggest weekend of the year for the kish. An NCAA tournament invitation goes to the Big East tourna­ment champion, and that is the only way that Notre Dame will make it into this year's field. 
The Irish, 10-8-2 on the year, will face defending national champion and top-seeded St. John's (16-2-2) in the tourna­ment semifinals today at the University of Connecticut. 
Fifth-seeded Notre Dame, the defending Big East tournament champion, advanced to the semifinals of the 1997 tourna­ment with· a 2-0 quarterfinal victory over fourth-seeded Seton Hall last weekend. 
Goals by sophomore Matt 
McNew and junior Ben Bocklage paced the Irish to vic­tory. McNew provided what proved to be the game-winner just over 17 minutes into the contest when he headed in a corner kick by senior Scott Wells. Bocklage iced the win on a 35-yard blast with 15 minutes to play in the game. 
Notre Dame's defense also had a strong outing. Irish goal­keeper junior Greg Velho fin-­ished the game with six saves, posting his eighth shutout of the season.. 
This will be the fourth time that these two teams have met. Notre Dame trails 0-2-1 in the series. St. John's won this year's only meeting 1-0 at St. John's. 
St. John's is currently ranked second in the nation in the NSCANUmbro poll. The Red Storm have played in the Big East championship game five out of the last six years, captur­ing the title four times (1992­
~~~

·tiiffY 
._,. 
. 
. -,~-­
~ .
IJ.r.r. 
95) to set a Big East record for championship titles won. 

Up front, St. John's is led by junior Jimmy Buscemi and freshman David Stewart. Each has six goals and two assists on the year. St. John's possesses one of the most dangerous offensive attacks in the confer­ence, ranking second in total goals scored and assists. 
Two of the top goalkeepers in the Big East will be featured in this semifinal match-up. Last year, Velho had a remarkable postseason. lie was named the most outstanding player of the 1996 Rig East tournament after giving up just one goal and made 13 saves in the two con­tests. Senior Dani Braga has­had a tn~mendous year for the Red Storm. He has posted nine shutouts and has given up only seven goals while leading St. John's to the Big East regular season title_ 
The Big East championship game will be played on Sunday. 


