
------------~-~~--~--~------~-,-----------­
--~-l 

Monday; February 17, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 92 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND announces Washington Program 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame has developed an off­campus study program in Washington, D.C., which debuts in the spring 1998 semester. 
The program combines classroom work with mandatory internships in areas specific to a variety of majors. 
"[The program] is 
"It's really what you make of it. We're well connected in terms of offering opportunities," he stated. 
Arnold further cited the wide variety of agencies headquartered in Washington, D.C., among them the United States Catholic Conference and the Federal Trade Commission. 
"The Holocaust Museum is another interesting option," he added. 
A professor from the Notre Dame campus will teach one or two courses in Washington; in addition, Arnold con­firmed that several Notre Dame alumni living in the area have expressed an interest in teaching there. 
"The possibility exists that a member of Congress will teach one course," hint­ed Arnold. "Imagine, being able to study Congress under the instruction of a con­
tributing congressperson." 
directed at everyone," 
Housing, according to explained Peri Arnold, a Arnold, is favorably located professor in the govern­in the northwest part of the ment department and city. Though Notre Dame's the director of the program is not affiliated Washington Program. with any other institution's, "The underlying princi­the apartment building will ple is to adapt to and be shared with students serve a variety of stu­from the University of dent interests, from Pennsylvania, Boston 


government to busi­ness." 
Program requirements include a six­credit seminar, which meets once per week, and attainment of a local intern­ship. Staff members-will participate in the search for positions, but students are also encouraged to create their own opportunities. 
"We can definitely help place students with an eye toward their career goals," Arnold said. "But they must apply and pursue it, seriously simulating a job search. 
"Engineering and science students can apply to various congressional commit­tees, and sociology majors might seek a community-oriented position." 
-To fill out their 15 credits, students will be offered the option of taking either two courses or one class and an independent study program culminating in a research paper. 
"If the classes seem too directed at one major; students can do the research paper, stru~tured around their particu­lar major," Arnold explained. 
University, and Dartmouth and Hamilton Colleges. 
"The apartments are new, very nice," Arnold confirmed. "The shared space allows Notre Dame students to mix with people from other schools, but our pro­gram is independent of them." 
Arnold feels that the Washington Program is a necessary addition to Notre Dame's off-campus opportunities. 
"It's an ideal place to study govern­ment and public policy," Arnold said, 
see D.C. I page 4 
Junior Parents' Weekend 

Golden Times 
T
he annual Junior Parents' Weekend was kicked off by a gala held in the Joyce Center. The event featured food, dancing, and live entertainment by The Jess Richmons Band. College open houses as well as dorm luncheons were held Saturday morning and afternoon; Saturday night, a banquet featuring guest speaker University President Father Edward Malloy followed a junior class Mass (below, left). Students (left) prepared the food for the banquet behind the scenes as juniors . and their parents were served. Sunday morning, President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh (below, right) spoke at the class brunch, highlighting the histo­ries of both JPW as well as Notre Dame. 


page2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
JPW Was it as good for 


you? 
JPW started out a lot -----­
Jamie Heisler 
like show and tell-just 
Associate News Editor
like back in elementary school when you knew that there would be a chance to get up in front of your classmates and explain about your favorite Transformer or stuffed animal. It was something you got excited about ahead of time and took special pride in introducing. 
Everyone in class would make their presenta­tion, and even in the third grade you could tell a little about the kid by what they chose to pre­sent (once you got by the initial "Oohs and ahhs" of course). 
Just imagine show and tell on a massive scale of almost 1,500 juniors, milling through both domes of the Joyce Center, introducing their parents not only to their friends but to their friends' parents as well. It was show and tell all over again as two worlds collided, and your school life suddenly met with your family life. Looking around, you saw where Random Dining Hall boy got his looks or where your roommates get their sarcasm. 
There were so many names, occupations and hometowns flying by my parents that I could only hope the principle of osmosis had some application. After about an hour I got the hint that my parents were slightly overwhelmed as my dad's eyes began to glaze over. I had the feeling that other parents felt the same as I approached one of my friends and heard a par­ent mumble, "Oh God, here comes another one..." 
My friends and I had a blast, of course, as we worked our way past the Wizard of Oz, Sesame Street , and the New Orleans French Quarter (complete with a cage/jail for every parent's favorite posed picture). Where else can you go to an almost-an-SYR where all your friends are there, you don't have to entertain a date, and your parents buy the drinks? Of course when I asked for Drink #2 I did get the parental "Are you sure you should be doing that?" glare, which was easily side-stepped by threatening to make another round of introductions. 
But they were fme once I ushered them to a 
table near the dance floor and put them with 
my friends' parents who were justas willing to 
watch the other parents form a conga line on 
the dance floor. 
Although they didn't realize it at first, that 
night was just what my parents needed to 
understand the relationship we juniors have to 
each other as well as to Notre Dame. Family 
defines Notre Dame -albeit a large, extended 
family. Every activity, from ones planned by the 
JPW committee to lunch at Mishawaka Brewing 
Company with my friends and their parents, 
gave my parents a chance to know my friends. 
That was what I wanted my parents to get from 
the weekend, a friendship with my friends who 
are the reason Notre Dame is so special to me. 
Granted the weekend wasn't perfect-I still 
can't spend extended periods of time with my 
parents without negatively reacting to advice 
ranging from driving habits to career choices. 
But when I think about the weekend, there are 
so many other things I will remember ten years 
from now in place of the problems. 
When else have I sat on an ice rink listening 
to Father Hesburgh or drank at a bar where 
there were as many adults as college students. 
It was a new perspective for my parents as well 
as a foreshadowing for me of the next time our 
class and their families will be together-grad­
uation. Chances are, with their new found 
friends around, it will be my parents who start 
the wave. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Derek Betcher  Sue O'Kain  
Brad Prendergast  Production  
Sports  Heather Cocks  
Betsy Baker  Nate Wills  
Viewpoint  Derek Betcher  
Jenny Metzger  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Catherine Deely  Dave Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday e~cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Monday, February 17, 1997 
The Observer • INSIDE 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Clinton orders striking pilots back to work 

NEW YORK 
Pilot strike looms 
v
·The word "strike" doesn't 

American Airlines and Its pilots union continued nonstop con!ract ~ talks In an attempt to end the countdOwn toward the Friday
conjure up such scary 
midnight strike deadline. The airline canceled about a dozen
images to the flying public domestic flights Friday. Where American files: 
anymore. 
That is the precedent set by President Clinton in ordering American Airlines pilots back to work within minutes after they declared a strike early Saturday, averting chaotic disruptions to hundreds of thousands of passengers. 
If pilot negotiations at four other of the nation's biggest airlines get to the brink of a walkout, airline chiefs and passengers almost certainly will be looking to the White House to keep the planes in the air. 
Clinton made a hugely popular decision by effectively 
Liz Taylor celebrates 65th birthday 
LOS ANGELES 
Elizabeth Taylor was honored Sunday night at a star­
studded bash celebrating her 65th birthday and benefit­
ing an AIDS foundation days before she was scheduled to 
undergo brain surgery. Actor Hugh Grant opened the show, introducing a retrospective of Miss Taylor's career and life. "What a body of work -let's face it. What a body," the star of "Four Weddings and a Funeral" said, introducing the actress. Miss Taylor, dressed in a green gown and coat, walked on stage and sat down beside 

her longtime pal, Michael Jackson. Jackson, who escort­ed Miss Taylor along a violet carpet into the theater, had written a song for her, "Elizabeth." Miss Taylor clapped, smiled and blew kisses from her place at the side of the stage. She said the event was not really a birthday cele­bration. ''I'm here to celebrate all of the people in the world with AIDS," Miss Taylor said. "This function has enabled (her AIDS foundation) to go all over the world." The audience was treated with never-before-seen footage of the actress's life and a career that began at age 9. The black-tie benefit, "Happy Birthday, Elizabeth -A Celebration of Life" raised more than $1 million for the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation, which distributes money for AIDS research and treatment. 


Astronauts finish Hubble repairs 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
Astronauts ventured out for the fourth spacewalk in as many nights Sunday to patch insulation on the Hubble Space Telescope that's peeling off like worn wallpaper. Gregory Harbaugh and Joe Tanner took along swatches of material from emergency kits aboard space shuttle Discovery to cover the damaged thermal insulation, and copper wire for fastening the pieces to the telescope. There was not enough time to do all the repairs, so NASA ordered the crew to conduct an extra spacewalk, on Monday night, to finish covering the torn insulation. The repair was not considered urgent, but scientists did not want to wait until the next servicing mission in late 1999. Additional sun damage to the insulation could allow Hubble's electronics to overheat and could unbalance its mirrors. "We've got a $2 billion investment here," said Ed Weiler, NASA's chief Hubble scientist. "Why take a chance?" Sunday night's spacewalk was supposed to be for equipping Hubble with new drive electronics for its solar panels, a tricky job that the astronauts accom­plished in 2 1/2 hours, and sturdier caps for two magne­tometers, part of the guidance system. 

• 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 17.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Monday Thesday 


Thursday
r 
I· ~ 

Pressure ~ 
Frid~y H L B ESI li:!l 0 IZ3 8 (} ~U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
.; ~/·.>"' ' 

Anchorage 34 26 Kennebunk 27 17 Providence 28 
20 Boston 26 20 Miami 73 65 St. Louis 34 
20 Chicago 40 17 New Orleans 65 40 San F rancisco66 
45 Geneseo 57 29 New York 32 27 Seattle 48 40 Honolulu 84 70 Philadelphia 36 25 Washington 38 34 
presidential interventions to prevent strikes, airline boss­es now have little incentive to accept union demands. "I think it has some implications for the industry that aren't all good," said American pilot Ron Keever. 

Six journalist unions return to work 
DETROIT 
A striking union that covers reporters and editors at Detroit's daily newspapers approved an unconditional offer to return to work on Sunday. About 60 percent of 200 members of Newspaper Guild Local 22 approved the offer, union president Lou Mleczko said. Leaders of Local 22 and five other unions announced the offer on Friday. So far, four unions told the newspaper company they accepted the offer. The guild and the sixth union were expected to notify the company soon, possibly Monday. The guild was the only union whose members had to vote on the offer. Once the six unions submit their offers to Detroit Newspapers Inc., the papers have five days to accept or reject the offer. Detroit Newspapers, which runs business and production operations for The Detroit News and the Detroit Free Press, says the 19-month-old strike will be over if the newspapers accept offers from the six unions. If the newspapers reject the offer, the unions say they will ask the National Labor Relations Board to seek a federal injunction to immediately return them...to their jobs. Rejecting the offer also could begin the accrual of back pay for striking workers -if the newspapers later are found to have committed unfair labor practices. Some 2,500 employees at The Detroit News and Detroit Free Press went on strike in July, 1995 to protest working conditions and low salaries. 

UAW axle-makers set to strike 

DETROIT 
About 7,200 United Auto Worker members will go on strike at five American Axle & Manufacturing Inc. plants at 7 a.m. Monday if a contract agreement is not reached by then, the UAW announced Sunday night. "Despite intensive negotiating efforts this weekend we have so far been unable to reach agreement with the company on satisfactory terms," UAW President Stephen P. Yokich and Vice President Richard Shoemaker said in a state­ment Sunday night. The two sides continued to meet Sunday night, UAW spokesman Reg McGhee said. The UAW originally had set a 11:59 p.m. Friday strike dead­line, but put it off as talks continued. American Axle sup­plies rear-and four-wheel-drive axles for virtually every General Motors Corp. pickup and sport utility vehicle, and axle parts for a variety of Ford Motor Co.'s light trucks. The negotiations affect UAW members at five American Axle plants: two at the flagship Detroit com­plex, two in the Buffalo, N.Y., area and the drive-shaft plant at Three Rivers, Mich. GM sold American Axle the plants in 1994.The contract talks, which began in December, are the first with the new ownership. 
removing the one potent negotiating weapon in the American pilot union's arse­nal. There was little obvious sympathy for the pilots in their quest for more compen­sation, largely because at $120,000 a year they already are among the most highly paid professionals in the country. 
But Clinton also sent a sig­nal to all airline workers, particularly pilots, that could severely restrict their bar­gaining power. Encouraged by the stronger possibility of 


Today... 

A look at education majors at Notre Dame 
Because Notre Dame no longer has an education department, Domers wishing to become teachers pursue their certification at Saint Mary's College. 

I 
II 

._______[~},_ ~-\_~\ -~~if_ --­




Future teachers take classes at Saint Mary's 


By LESLIE FIELD 
Accent Writer 
In his State of the Union Address. President Clinton made U.S. education his number one priority. He called for national standards for what students should know; a merit system for teachers; an inten­sive campaign to teach reading; expansion of Head Start; more choices for parents in selecting a public school; federal help in repairing schools; and at least two years of college for all students. subsidized by new tax breaks. 
As education steps into the national spotlight", Saint Mary's College continues to maintain its posi­tion as having one of the nation's premier education departments. The department has been training tal­ented and effective classroom teachers since 1915. 
Minerva Straman, an adjunct assistant professor in Saint Mary's department of education. cited the edu­cation department as one of the best in the school. 
"Our students have no trouble getting jobs," said Straman. 
Straman also commented on the field work and the practical nature of the program. "It's not just a mat­ter of books. They have to go out there and tutor or teach. There are students at other [colleges and uni­versities] who haven't been to another school until they student-teach. Our students know what to expect," Straman said. 
It's no wonder why. One hundred hours of field work are required of students before they are able to student teach their senior year. Elementary and Secondary Education students must complete ten, twenty or thirty hours of observation per semester at South Bend schools for various education classes. 
Anne Parente, one of forty juniors majoring in ele­mentary education, cites the intense field work as a reason for coming to Saint Mary's. 
''I'm glad I've had so many opportunities to work in the field," said Parente. "Saint Mary's really focuses on classroom experiences. This is so impor­tant in the field of education." 
Megan Pater, a Notre Dame senior majoring in English and currently. student teaching at Washington High School and Navar Middle School shares Parente's view, adding that there are some differences in the Education Department for Notre Dame students. 
"My experience in Saint Mary's Education Department has been a very positive one," said Pater. "It's more difficult for ND students to schedule their courses, but if you take the initiative to get all the right information, it will be a good experience." 
Indeed, most education majors do not have many 
Co-op allows for class 
By JUSTYN HARKIN Departmenrs Page Editor 
The relationship between students at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College is · · not limited to just social events, student organizations. and com~ munity service projects. Because of the proximity of the schools and their common tradition, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer a cooperative program i.n academics, allowing students from both institutions to take a limited number of courses from the ne:ilth.boJrinltSrch£ml. 
While it is obvious that male ""''"'"n'"' courses is from Notre Dame, in a Notre Dame class is ·a lot Registrar cites 210 as the number Notre Dame classes this semester; able of what kind of classes they are ·--·.-cc• -­possible that there is· a SaintMary's studetit department of each college at Notre Dame. 
Saint Mary's students take Notre-Dame classes for various rea­sons ranging from scheduling conflicts at their own. institution to the suggestion of a professo~ on behalf of a ~otre Dame · 
Samuel Gaglio, assistant dean of the College · 
Administration, the business de1nm·t.rn·ents -• ...,,........ the students' best >nt<>r~·ctc "There is a good nui~U()n::;mp Gaglio, ''When students havt:i ing or availability ofdassesl 
An additional benefit of the Notre Dame''and Saint Mary's·· both institutions to participate in ..,,.,,..,..,.,Yl'l 
of co(lperatlon. bEtt;Ween 
do not offer. Aspiring teachers ..vl\1"''..."•DA:riie;:ro,r welcomed at Saint from both schools h .....,.,..,,., 
. ::0'\W:= 
free electives and scheduling classes must be done with care so that at least one semester is free for student teaching." 
Pater cited Notre Dame English department advi­sor Don Sniegowski, as a very accommodating man who is aware of Saint Mary's education department policies. Pater is concerned that students in other Notre Dame departments receive less support while taking their education classes at Saint Mary's. 
Kimberly Flint-Hamilton, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, cites the teacher-certification offered by Saint Mary's educa· tion department as the most common reason for Notre Dame students to take classes there. 
"Saint Mary's has one of the best education depart­ments for a school of its kind," said Flint-Hamilton, stressing the quality of the program. 
Notre Dame students like Pater also have a chance to become certified through Saint Mary's Middle School/Junior High endorsement. 
The program is open to elementary and secondary education students alike. It began last year as a way to make students more marketable in the job mar­ket. 
Students participating in the program must com· plete additional field hours and spend half of their student teaching at a ·high school and the other half 
at a middle school. So far. this has been a successful method of training for Middle School and Junior High stu­dent teachers. 
Elementary education majors do their student teaching in the fall while stu· dents in the Secondary Education program do theirs in the Spring. 
Students work full time in a South Bend school for twelve hours of credit. This is their final step towards certifica­tion. 
Kathy Moriarty, an English teacher at South Bend's Washington High School. has had many student teachers from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame over the years. 
"The most important thing is for students to get out," Moriarty said. "''d like to see a year long student teaching program. I'd also like to see Saint Mary's professors come in and do cooperative learn­ing; show me over a time of two weeks or so how to do it. That's how we learn." 
Moriarty has been teach­ing at Washington for ten years and feels that Saint Mary's has an excellent pro­gram. 
Next summer, Notre Dame, in conjunction with Saint Mary's and the Catholic Diocese of South Bend, will offer a Master's of Science and Administration program. Students and administrators are looking forward to taking this next step in providing further education at the administrative level. 

'Chicago, my kind of town ... ' 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Members of the Class of 2000 took to the IJYindy City last weekend to ecape the campus' Junior Parents Weekend. 
page4 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 17, 1997 
• MULTICULTURAl BEAT 


Diverse talent hits LaFortune 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY "Is My Living in Vain?" young people. Trent focused News Writer Following a brief intermis­his poetry on the contradic­sion, junior Erik Burrell pre­tions and hypocrisy in America 
On Friday night, students sented his poem "Labels." today. came together in the Burrell spoke out against "These days the young peo­LaFortune Ballroom to explore falling into the trap of labeling ple have gone crazy and the the essence of African others and then challenged old people have heart attacks,"
American art in the 1997 pro­each of the audience members Trent emphasized.duction of Blak Kofee House, to stop "Notre Dame's antidi­Chandra Johnson, from "Souls of Black Folk." versity." 
Campus Ministry, then 
The event gave poets, musi­

The program culminated in addressed the students and 
cians, and actors the opportu­the works of Andre Anderson 
challenged both the seniors nity to show off their talents to and Curtis Trent, two members and the freshmen to be future a Valentine's Day audience of of the South Bend community leaders in the world. students and parents. who presented their powerful The Blak Kofee House, which The Junior Parents Weekend work in "Poetic Flow." 
was begun in 1982, has growncrowd was treated to an With the most poignant ideas into a highly anticipated part 
assortment of acts including of the night, Anderson and of the Black Cultural Arts the emotional performance of Trent showed their angst Festival. seniors Tracey Randolph, Sola towards the state of human -The festival is just" one" of the Sawyer, Erica Williams, and relations. 
events planned by the Office of Sonya Williams, who brought 
In his poetry, Anderson Multicultural Student Affairs 
the audience to their feet with talked of the traps of prostitu­for the celebration of Black their musical interpretation of tion and the threat of AIDS to History Month. 
Trouble with your FAFSA or Profile? 



WE CAN HELP! 
Joe Russo, Director of Financial Aid, will be discussing these forms and answering your questions 
Monday,February 1 7 8 p.m. Dooley Room 


1st Floor of LaFortune 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE STUDENT  GOVERNMENT  
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL AID  
UHo•USIHM Nnur 0•MI  
'"'"'"' .......~~···  

D.C. 
continued from page 1 
"and we hope it will attract more students than our summer seminar has." 
Applicants will compete for 25 slots per semester; Arnold hopes that the interest level will be such that the program can expand to incorporate more. 
"We've had marketing profes­sors express interest, and the opportunity to live in Washington, D.C., is wonderful. We think Notre Dame should send as many students as it can," Arnold asserted. 
CLEAN • FAST • GENTLE 
Buy 4 sessions at the regula.price & get 2 FREE! Buy 5 & get 3 FREE... , . Buy 6 &get 4 FREE... 
1 Month & 3 Month Unlimited Tanning Packages Available! 

~mCAGO HAm & TAN~



'·--·' 
5804 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 277-79 6 

BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPWH~ APPLY FOR THE POSITION OF 
IJIW 1998 CHAIRPERSON!!! 
. 


OON'f MISS OU11!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5PM FEBRUARY 19 
r 

QUESTIONS? CALL SUE CHRISTIE AT 4-4825 


Deceased officer had ND ties 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
An Ohio State University police officer who was fatally shot last week had a brief connection with Notre Dame, helping Notre Dame Security begin its own bike patrol unit three years ago. 
Michael Blankenship, 43, who worked at Notre Dame for a week during the summer of 1994, was killed last Monday during what seemed to be a routine call to the Wexner Center for the Arts on the OSU campus in Columbus, Ohio. 
The killer remained at large 

las 




Come to the Faculty/Senior Lunch 
• Friday, February 21, 12:00-2:00 p.m. • 

at he 

s~ 
-----......... ~­
0 
--t 0 


Enjoy good food & drinks (yes, drinks wtll be served) with your professors. 
Sponsored by the class of 1997 and endorsed by Student Senate. 
until Wednesday, when a dead man bearing a "striking resem­blance" to a police sketch of the suspect was found in an Upper Arlington, Ohio, apartment, The Columbus Dispatch reported. Upper Arlington is a suburb of Columbus. 
Blankenship's partner later identified that man, Mark Edgerton, as the gunman, police sources said. Edgerton had apparently committed sui­cide. 
Phil Johnson, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame Security and a personal friend of Blankenship, said Blankenship was well-respected by his col­leagues. 
"He really was a tremendous 
officer. He was well-liked by all Upon arriving at Edgerton's the people at Ohio State," apartment, OSU and Columbus Johnson said. "This a tremen­police found Edgerton's body. dous loss for the law enforce­Police sources told The ment community." Dispatch that investigators have During his week-long visit to "a lot physical evidence" from Notre Dame in 1994, the apartment and the crime Blankenship helped start the scene, including a pistol and bike patrol unit by training the blood-stained clothes. Tests officers, Johnson said. were expected to be conducted "He was very generous in giv­over the weekend to determine ing a lot of help," Johnson said. whether the blood matched 
Blankenship and another offi­Blankenship's, police said. cer -identified by police "This brings some closure to sources as Officer Sandria this tragedy," Johnson said. Niciu, Blankenship's regular "The people of OSU know that partner -were answering a the perpetrator is not loose in theft call from the Wexner the community." Center about 5:45p.m. Monday, Blankenship was the first Ohio police said. When the officers State campus officer to be killed entered the lobby, they in the line of duty. 
approached the suspect and a disturbance ensued. 
Blankenship apparently attempted to search the man, who refused to take his hands from his pockets, police said. The man suddenly pulled a pis­tol and shot Blankenship in the face, fired at the other officer but missed, and then fled. 
An article in Thursday's edi­tion of The Dispatch said police were notified by Edgerton's co­workers at Nationwide Insurance Co. that the man had not been at work since the day of the shooting. 
The employees called police after seeing a published picture of the suspect, saying the photo strongly resembled Edgerton. 

Join Hearts ... 


for the Journey 
Marianist Voluntary Service Communities 
•
Men and women age 20 and over 

•Committed 
Christians 

•
Willing to give a year ofservice 

•
Living in community, simply & prayerfully 


MVSC P.O. Box 9224 Wright Bros. Branch Dayton, OH 45409 
937-229-4630 (phone) • 937-229-2772 (fax) MVSC@saber. udayton. edu (e-mail) 




~--~p~ag~e_G:..______~-~-~-~-~~~~~~~-~---------"~-~---~~T.::::=-,-~~:_:b=-:c~::::'_:_vo::::'_•~N~-:_::E=-W_:_:_:S=--__~__ ________M_o_n_d__:ay_,_F_eb_r_u_ar_:_y_1_7_,_1_99_7-­
__--_--_-­


Chair pro01ises extensive probe 
Burton announces two dozen more subpoenas for finance documents 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The chairman of the House cbmmittee investi­gating campaign fund raising said he has issued nearly two dozen new subpoenas and is looking into reports that ttw Chinese government want­ed to contribute to the Democratic Party . 
."The bottom line is, it's going to be a much more broad investigation than we thought it would be," Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., chairman of the Government Reform and Oversight Committee, said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Burton said he had previously issued five sub­poenas and 
The Hepublican-led Congress is unwilling to initiate campaign finance legislation when Republican fund raisers are bringing in twice as much as Democrats, complained Sen. Bob Torricelli, D-N.J., on ABC's "This Week" pro­gram. 
Burton said the Lirst priority must be investi­gating past wrongdoing, including a Washington Post report last week that the Chinese embassy in Washington had considered making cam­paign contributions to the Democrats. 
One key Democratic Ligure involved in raising money from the Asian community, John Huang, "may very well have given information that he shouldn't have to the Chinese and others" as part of the fund-raising efforts, said Burton. 
"If the White House, or anybody connected with the White House was selling or giving information to the Chinese in exchange for political contributions then we have to look into it because that's a felony and you're selling this country's security, economic security -what­
ever -to a commu­

Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, which has launched a parallel probe, have complained that the Republicans are out to attack the Democratic Party rather than expose the fund­raising excesses of both parties. 
A report released today showed that Democratic and Republican parties raised an unprecedented $263.5 million in largely unreg­ulated "soft money" campaign donations during the two-years leading to the 1996 election ­almost three times the amount in the 1991-92 campaign. 
There are no limits to so-called "soft money" contributions which cannot legally be spent directly on a candidate's behalf. The money may be used for generic advertising, get-out­the-vote efforts and other party-building activi­ties. 
The Center for Responsive Politics said Republicans got $141.2 million and Democrats $122.3 million in such contributions during the 24-month period prior to last year's election. 
dent." 

He said Clinton sought support from the peo­ple attending 103 informal coffees he had at the White House, some of whom were or became major contributors to the party, but that there was nothing new or wrong with that. 
Davis recalled former Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher's "Team 100" -a group of top Republican contributors who had given more than $100,000 each to the Bush campaign in 1988. 
"Did Mosbacher, under the Bush administra­tion, in his $100,000 club not invite people to the White House for the same purpose? What is so shocking?" Davis asked on "Fox News Sunday." 
Burton said his committee now had 500 peo­ple it wanted to talk to, including Huang, the former Democratic National Committee fund­raiser and Commerce ofticial. He said his hear­ings would begin in April or May and there was "no way to know how long it's going to go." 


Sutntner Grants for Undergraduate Research on International Issues 
Informational Meeting for Interested Students Wednesday, February 19 DeBartolo Rm 118, 4:30PM 
Grant competition sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Travel and expenses up to $3, ooo 
Further information available from Prof. Michael Francis at the Hesburgh Center Room 3 12" 
'Delightfully tacky...' 
The Observer/Kevin Datum 

While in Chicago for a weekend class trip, some members of the Class of 2000 made a lunch-time pilgrimage to Hooters restau­rant. 

Not:.re Dame Communication and Theatre 
.fJI"11!!IiiJJ!ii 


Playingat •1 I II ..,..Hall
lt • 

ur!iday, ~br~ 27 7:3£1 fl.ll!­ay, Fe · '28 7:30p.m. turda I 2:30p.m. Matll'lee I 7:30p.m. f11" 
·~ ltti!;;.... iib!iervfhlSeats !Itt -lkntor Citizens !119 .,;;;;. fJtUdentli 

Tlcket!f are ava/lal.1le.pttthe d 
LaFortune Tkket~e. MasterCard and rder!i call 
.· ···~ 

-.-..:yof.l1Ufttirn0 fhm>tre Is -edbiJ "griii!J; f~ --M.-~-·" 
_,_"je<I""4nflthelnstltum ror~t>-t.-Artlf. 


Attention Juniors 
Preparing to 74.pply for .Caw School 

Tuesday, February 18 
6:00 p.m. -120 Law School 
Presented b!:J Dean Link Notre Dame [awSchool 
~ 

.....r Sponsored by the Notre Dame Prelaw Society 
Saturday night sent out 20 more for documents his committee wants to see. He declined to provide details of the new subpoe­nas, saying he had yet to inform com­mittee Democrats. 
Democrats on both the House panel and the 

nist power," Burton said on CNN's "Late Edition." 
White House coun­sel Lanny Davis, also appearing on NBC, said President Clinton was "very seriously monitor­ing" the China issue, but stressed that "there's no policy affected by contribu­tions to this presi­


Monday, February 17, 1997 The Observer • SCIENCE NEWS page7 




Scientists pinpoint evidence of dinosaur killer 

By PAUL RECER Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Scientists who drilled core samples from the ocean bed said Sunday they have found "smoking gun" evidence that a huge asteroid 
,---------, smashed into the Earth 65 millions years ago and probably killed off the dinosaurs. 
"We've got the smoking T. Rex gun," said Richard D. Norris, leader of an international ocean drilling expedition that probed the Atlantic Ocean floor in search of asteroid evidence. 
Norris said the expedition recovered thr.ee drill samples 
Papa John's and HPC is sponsoring an All Campus Contest 
Compete against other dorms (of the same sex) based on dollar average per resident 
One male & one female winner will be declared The dorm which purchases the most Papa john 's items between Feb. 14 March 31 will receive free pizza for their dorm's dance, SSOO for the dorm to spend at their discretion TopS leaders will be posted every Friday in The Observer 
See Hall President for detailsr"""':~-----------------. 
Hours: Mon thru Thurs: 1 1 a.m.-1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 1 1 a.m.-3 a.m Sunday: 12 p.m.-!a.m. 
that have the unmistakable sig­nature of a asteroid impact about 65 million years ago. The drill cores include a thin brownish section that the sci­entists called the "fireball layer" because it is thought to contain bits of the asteroid itself. 
"These neat layers of sedi­ment bracketing the impact have never been found in the sea before," Norris said in a telephone interview. "It is proof positive of the impact." 
The scientists, working on the drill ship Joides Resolution, spent five weeks off the east coast of Florida collecting cores from the ocean floor in about 8,500 feet of water. The team penetrated up to 300 feet beneath the sea bed, drilling past sediments laid down at the time of the dinosaur extinction. 
Norris said the deepest layers contain fossil remains of many animals and came from a healthy, "happy-go-lucky ocean" just before the impact. 

Just above this is a layer with small green glass pebbles, thought to be ocean bottom material instantly melted by the massive energy release of the asteroid. 
Next was a rusty brown layer which Norris said is thought to be from the "vaporized remains of the asteroid itself." 
The heat of the impact would have been so intense, said Norris, that the stony asteroid would have instantly been reduced to vapor and thrown high into the sky. It then snowed down, like a fine pow­der, all over the globe. 
Norris said brown deposits, like that in the core sample, have been found elsewhere and they have a high content of iridium, a chemical signature of asteroids. Just above the brown layer, is 2 inches of gray clay with strong evidence of a nearly dead world. 
"It was not a completely dead ocean, but most of the species that are seen before (early in the core sample) are gone," said Norris. "There are just some very minute fossils. These were the survivors in the ocean." 
This dead zone lasted about 5,000 years, said the scientist, and then the core samples showed evidence of renewed life. 
"It is amazing how quickly the new species appeared," he said. 
Although the dinosaur-killing impact occurred in the south­ern Gulf of Mexico, Norris went to the Atlantic Ocean, believing that waves from the impact 

* * Attention N.D. Senior Premedical Students!! * * 
Interested in a break before the demands of medical school? 
IIow about considering a year of seryjce at a medical clinic serving the medically indigent of St. Joseph's and Marshall Counties? 
The Thomas Dooley Serl'ice Award Project is a year long service project sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
--Gain valuable experience in a primary care clinic setting --Learn about health ministry and serving the needs of the poor 
*Considerable stipend to cover room and board 
*As a registered patient, your health care will be provided by the clinic 

Applications now available at the Center for Social Concerns Finnl date to npply is Mnrch 17, 1997 
Questions? Please contact : would have washed completely across Florida. 
-.!!~~111!!!!111  The 1996-97 Tom Dooley Volunteer--Ryan I Ielfellinger, at St. Joseph's Ilealth Center @ 289-7662  
••  or  
c E" r E R  r  0  R  The Director of Postgraduate Service Opportunities--Maureen Skurski, at the Center for Social Concerns@ 631-5779  
SOCIAL  
CONCERNS  



Robert W. Corell, assistant director for Geosciences of the National Science Foundation, said the core samples are the strongest evidence yet that an asteroid impact caused the extinction. 
"In my view, this is the most significant discovery in geo­sciences in 20 years," he said, also in a telephone interview. "This gives us the facts of what happen to life back then. I would certainly call it the smoking gun." 
The ship bearing the core samples returned to port on . Friday and the NSF announced the findings Sunday, coinciden­
'· 
tally just hours before NBC was to air a movie about a fictional asteroid hitting the Earth and causing widespread destruc­tion. 
"The impact of the asteroid featured in tonight's NBC-TV show is peanuts compared to the real thing faced by the world 65 million years ago," said Corell. 
Geologist Walter Alvarez first proposed in 1980 that the dinosaurs suddenly disap­peared because of a massive asteroid hit. 
At first,the theory had few supporters. 
But in 1989, scientists found evidence of a huge impact crater north of Chicxulub, on Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. Later studies found evidence of debris washed out of the Gulf by waves that went inland as far as what is now Arkansas. 
It's now widely believed that an asteroid of six to 12 miles in diameter smashed to Earth at thousands of miles an hour. It instantly gouged a crater 150 to 180 miles wide. 
That energy release was more powerful than if all of the nuclear weapons ever made were set off at once, said Norris. Billions of tons of soil, sulphur and rock vapor were lifted into the atmosphere, blot­ting out the sun. Temperatures around the globe plunged. 
Up to 70 percent of all species, including the dinosaurs, perislted. Among the survivors, scientists believe, were small mammals that evolved into new species, including humans. 
Foik Nominations Invited 

The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is. given annually to a library faculty member who has' contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional associations. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director ofNotre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners have been Maureen Gleason, Deputy Director, Robert Havlik, Engineering Librarian emeritus, Joseph Huebner, Head of Collection Development, Rafael Tarrago, Latin American Studies Librarian, Janis Johnston, Associate Director, Law Library, and Charlotte Ames, American Catholic Studies Librarian. All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' tenure are eligible. Please send names of nominees, including justification, to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, % John Halloran, 247 Business Admin­
istration Complex, by April 4. 

The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 17, 1997 


Paper probes sexual misconduct 

The Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
There is a dark secret in a Roman Catholic diocese that covers most of north-central Indiana, according to an Indianapolis newspaper. 
The Indianapolis Star and The Indianapolis News have published their investigation into the Lafayette Diocese detailing a pattern of sexual abuse and charging that the Catholic church has largely covered up the problems. 
According to the report, the Rev. Ken Bohlinger, who mas­turbated with boys, now sells luggage in Arizona. The Rev. Ron Voss, who sexually abused male teens, moved to Haiti. Monsignor Arthur Sego, who fondled girls, was retired to the Ozarks. 
Other priests of the Lafayette Dio"ese are back in their pul­pit!/""after they were accused of sexually exploiting vulnerable adults. Some priests pursued relations with parishioners or fellow priests. A few lured teens with alcohol and pornog­raphy. 
One priest had sexual rela­tions with a teen who went on to become a priest himself. After donning the collar, Ron Voss also became a sexual predator, abusing male adoles­cents. 
An investigation by The Indianapolis Star and The Indianapolis News revealed that at least 16 current and former priests have been accused of sexual abuse or misconduct during the past 25 years. Diocese officials have admitted to 12 troubled priests and as many as 40 victims in 

Brought to you by Hall Presidents Couna1 
All Week Long... 
llfilliiiiD I 
STORM 


fhemed Laser Games 
person 


30% off all games 



t J • t)fi I 
i I I Good daily except Fri/Sat j I after 2 p.m. Expires 4/1/97. J
!....__ .._ ____.~_' -..__..._. __• 


Michiana Paintball 
the past dozen years alone. All this in a diocese with just 7 5 active priests. 
The diocese spans 24 coun­ties in north-central Indiana, from the northern suburbs of Indianapolis to tiny Wheatfield. 
An expert on sexual miscon­duct among priests was dis­turbed at the scope of the problem in this mostly rural diocese. 
Nationally, just 2 percent to 3 percent of priests are ever accused of such misconduct, says Dr. Fred Ber~in, director of a le\lding sexual disorders clinic at The Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. 
In the Lafayette Diocese, the rate is -no less than 16 percent -even factoring in priests long retired. 
Says Berlin, who advises the National Conference of Catholic Bishops: "That's an awfully high percentage -the highest I've seen." 
Perhaps even more surpris­ing, though, is how quiet the problem has been kept. 
Few among the faithful ever learned of these widespread abuses. Bishops have not reported most acts to the pub­lic, parishioners or even their own clergy. In the churches where some of the abusers served, their secrets were hid­den to this day. 
The current leader, Bishop William L. Higi. has worked to move the diocese out of a pat­tern of neglect. He has ban­ished the worst abusers and effectively ended their min­istries. To root out molesters, he requires priests to sign affi­davits stating whether they have ever been accused of child abuse. For victims, Higi offers a toll-free hotline and counseling. 
Yet the 63-year-old Higi keeps mum about molesters in his diocese until forced to acknowledge them. 
By Higi's silence, parents do not know enough to ask their children whether a priest has ever touched them sexually, and some perpetrators are allowed to slip out of town qui­etly and begin new lives. 
Predators of children and teens avoided prison. Even priests who confessed to abus­ing multiple victims escaped criminal prosecution and scan­dalous trials. 
The harshest punishment suffered by any accused priest befell Sego. Facing the threat of a lawsuit by an angry victim, Sego was forced by Higi into a restricted lifestyle at a rest home near St. Louis. Though Sego can say Mass inside the home, he is barred from pub­licly functioning as a priest. 
That is not nearly good enough, say victims. They charge they are left with no say in their abusers' punishment, no monetary damages for their suffering and only rare public admissions of the pain they endured. 
"The more you disavow, the more you say, 'Be quiet,' the more everyone suffers," says Sego victim Linda Schrader. 
Some frustrated priests fear the damage wrought by their bishops' past and present mis­takes has crippled the diocese. 
The Rev. Melvin J. Bennett links the years of misconduct and secrecy to low morale among the clergy, eroding trust in the priesthood and a short­age of seminarians. 




ay's Specia 
Beacon Bowl 

$5/person unlimited howling including shoe rental and soft drinks 

On Campus 
• Alan Page Lecture 101 Debartolo, 8 p.m. • O'Shag Galleries 

291-9462 Other ldeas ... Rock Climbing at the Rock • Snite !112 price-$5 per person I Museum • Chuck E Cheese • Day/Evening trip
Call ahead for location and reservations! 


to Chicago • Go out for Pancakes • Aerobics • 

Monday, February 17 , 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• ZAIRE • CHINA 
Rebel postpones his attack Korean defector shot 
By KARIN DAVIES 
Associated Press Writer 
KALEMIE, Zaire 

Rebel leader Laurent Kabila, responding to a plea from the United Nations, agreed Sunday to delay a threatened attack on Zaire's largest refugee camp. 
Kabila had threatened to attack the Tingi-Tingi camp, which is on the rebels' northern front, this week unless the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees drove out Rwandans he says are armed by the Zairian government. 
The rebel leader said he granted the reprieve to give the agency time to figure out how to separate the armed men from bona fide refugees in the camp of 150,000 people. 
"As we are Christians, we shall give more time to UNHCR," Kabila told The Associated Press in the south­eastern town of Kalemie. "We shall see what we come up with." 
Kabila didn't set a new dead­line, but said he would stay in touch with U.N. officials. 
Twice in the past week, Kabila has vowed to attack Tingi-Tingi within days to clear out former Rwandan soldiers and Hutu militiamen, who have received planeloads of arms in recent days. 
The United Nations sent rep­resentatives to Kalemie, a port on Lake Tanganyika, to plead for a reprieve. Kabila granted it. but insisted it would be tem­porary. 
"We talked a little bit of my ultimatum there, which is very serious. I hope they understood my position," he said. 
The U.N. representatives quickly flew back to Nairobi, Kenya, without speaking to reporters. In the past, the refugee agency has said it does not have the power to disarm refugees. 

ing on China for protection. A Chinese vice foreign minis­ter talked with Hwang for 10 
minutes at the consulate Sunday, and was reassured by Hwang that he was defecting of his own free will, South Korean newspapers said. 
Hwang had talked with the 






Thinking of doing 
a year of service? CIA station chief on the day of his defection, giving him a list of five to seven other North 
In the Zairian capital, Kinshasa, Defense Ministry spokesman Leon Kalima denied that the government is arming the refugees. He said Zaire has only enough weapons and ammunition to provide for its own soldiers. 
"It's well known that we have a problem with materiels," he said. "How could we possibly be giving things to outside forces? We're trying to outfit our own men." 
On Friday, U.N. Secretary­General Kofi Annan also charged that arms were being sent into Tingi-Tingi, though he did not directly accuse Zaire. 
The United Nations' special envoy, Mohamed Sahnoun, vis­ited Zairian President Mobutu Sese Seko at his palace in Gbadolite in northern Zaire on Saturday, and had been expect­ed to demand an end to the arming of the refugees. Sahnoun made no statement after the meeting. 
Zaire's defense minister, Likulia Bolongo Lingbangi, said in a statement Sunday that Kabila's threat to attack Hutus in the camp was proof he was being directed by the Tutsi-led governments of Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda. 
They have denied the allega­tions. 
Hundreds of thousands of Rwandan Hutus fled into Zaire after Rwanda's 1994 massacre of a half-million Tutsis, fearing reprisals from the Tutsi-led government that now controls Rwanda. Many of the fighters taking shelter in the camps took part in the genocide. 
Kabila pledged to provide a safe corridor, as he has done in the past, for any refugees who want to leave Tingi-Tingi. 
Kabila's Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo-Zaire has captured a 900-mile strip of eastern Zaire in its campaign 

during Beijing standoff 
Korean party officials who might want to defect, the news­papers said. 
Negotiators from South Korea and China have been discussing what to do about Hwang, the most senior official ever to flee North Korea. There was no word on any progress. North Korea also sent negotia­tors, but it was unclear whether they had held any meetings yet. 
Chinese police have been guarding the consulate around the clock since Hwang's defec­tion. 
On Sunday, some patrolled with assault rifles. A water cannon was parked behind an armored car at the front door of the consulate. Police blocked surrounding streets with their cars and tire-shredding spikes. 
North Koreans, who have been keeping vigil outside the consulate, sat in a few parked cars late Sunday, taking shelter from the freezing cold. 
The defection puts China in a difficult position. It does not want to infuriate North Korea, a longtime ally with whom it fought in the 1950-53 Korean War. China also has diplomatic relations with South Korea and wants to encourage growing commercial ties. 
Following the defection, South Korea put its 650,000­member military on higher alert and tightened security at airports, government facilities, foreign embassies and ports. 
It stepped up security even further after the shooting, throwing up roadblocks near Seoul and tightening protection for politicians and other possi­ble targets of terrorism. 
Lee's real name is Lee II Nam. Because of his ties to the North Korean leader, he had been under close protection since his arrival in Seoul, and his 1982 defection had been kept secret until last year, when his mother, Sung Hae­rang, also fled. 
Friends said Lee, fearing North Korean reprisals, had undergone drastic plastic surgery to avoid detection. 
Before the attack, a woman purporting to be a reporter called the apartment to ask when would be home, police said. 
to oust Mobutu, whose 31 years in power have left min­eral-rich Zaire among the world's poorest countries. 
Kabila said his toughest opposition was coming from the Rwandans, not Zairians, "because the Zairians are not motivated." 
Officials reported heavy fight­ing Sunday between rebels and Zairian forces around Amisi. But the rebels took the town a week ago, and it was unclear how government troops could have reached the area. 
By RENEE SCHOOF 
Associated Press Writer 
BEIJING 
Heavily armed police backed 

by an armored car and water 
cannon guarded the South 
Korean consulate, where a 
North Korean defector was hid­
ing Sunday. South Korea linked 
the standoff to the shooting of 
another prominent defector in 
Seoul. 
Lee Han-young, a nephew of 

North Korean leader Kim Jong Il's first wife, was shot twice . Saturday outside a friend's apartment in a Seoul suburb. Lee remained hospitalized in critical condition Sunday, and doctors told police he was 
brain dead.· 
Police blamed the shooting 

on North Korean agents, and 
South Korea's prime minister 
indicated it was linked to the 
defection of Hwang Jang Yop, 
who is holed up in the con­
sulate in Beijing. 
"In response to the Hwang 

incident, North Korea has 
threatened to take hundred­
and thousandfold revenge," 
Prime Minister Lee Soo-sung 
said in Seoul after an emer­
gency Cabinet meeting Sunday. 
"This attack shows that the 
threat is something concrete." 
According to South Korean 

officials, Hwang, a designer of 
North Korea's guiding philoso­
phy of self-reliance, walked 
into its consulate Wednesday 
with an aide and said he want­
ed to defect. 
Communist North Korea, one 

of the world's most isolated 
and secretive states, claims 
rival South Korea kidnapped 
Hwang, 73, and has warned it 
will retaliate if he is not 
released. 
Hwang, who reportedly was 

facing a purge, would likely face 
severe punishment if sent back 
to North Korea, and is depend­

How about doing it 
Attention sophomores! 
Applications are now being



for a lifetime? 
accepted for Assistant Student 
Have you considered 


Body Treasurer for 1997-98 THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
• Gain valuable practical 
A one year program at Moreau Seminary at the 


experience in a business 
University of Notre Dame for college graduates 


oriented leadership role!
interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
• handle over $400,000 a 

Scholarship assistance is available. 


year! 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 








VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday. February 17, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager .......•.............. Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ............... ;.Caroline Blum Conrroller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofrhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commeqtaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available co all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and co all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EditorNiewpoint Spons News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 

Scholarships should remain with the talented 
Whatever its failings and excesses may be, I have never heard even the harshest critics of the Notre Dame Football pro­gram accuse it of paying a player to attend the University. Many of our on­the-field rivals can not make the same claim. Rather than coming to this school because some "friend of the pro­gram" alumnus cuts them a check or makes a down payment on a car, our football recruits seem to gravitate 

Chistopher Kratovil 
towards the University for the "right" reasons; they may value the education that they will receive here, realize the career-enhancing power of the media exposure Notre Dame receives, admire the winning-with-class approach that the program strives for, or perhaps sim­ply they want to play in the "House that Rockne built." 
Notre Dame, it seems, plays the high stakes college football recruiting game by the rules and with the sort of integri­ty that befits this institution. Nobody is being bribed to come to Notre Dame, and the sort of illegal behavior that rabid "boosters" at other major pro­grams have displayed is kept in check here. After all, we are Notre Dame and we hold ourselves to a higher standard. 
Or do we? Well, while the buying of players is allegedly the problem of many of our opponents, at Notre Dame we seemingly face a slightly different ethi­cal dilemma; the selling of scholarships. Apparently if one makes a sufficiently large donation to the University it is now possible to secure a scholarship for your progeny. The curious case of one of our new football signees, a certain John Jordan, exemplifies this emerging opportunity. 
John Jordan is by all accounts a fine high school football player for Phillips Academy, an elite New England board­ing school. Jordan, an offensive line­man, is according to the scouts "strong and a good run blocker" and "the best lineman on his team." Armed only with this information, it might seem as if John Jordan -a good player and a good student -is a perfectly reasonable addition to the next four Fighting Irish football teams. 
Unfortunately, however. there is more to this story. John Jordan is simply not considered a serious prospect to play or contribute at the NCM Division I level. By the standards of major college line­man Jordan is a virtual midget, standing a mere six feet and weighing around 265 pounds. In addition to being far­and-away the smallest lineman Notre Dame has recruited in many years, Jordan is also the slowest player signed for the Irish class of 2001 (5.5 in the 40 yard dash according to The Observer Sports Department) making the prospect of converting him to another position next to impossible. And while Jordan was certainly a stand-out player in high school, the level of competition he was facing must be considered, too; Phillips Academy isn't quite as elite in football as it is in academics. 
Those whose profession it is to evalu­ate the talent of would be college play­ers are unconvinced that he has what it takes to contribute to the Irish. 
"This guy is not a major college play­er," said one published recruiting ana­lyst consulted for this column. The ana­lyst said that Jordan "is not a prospect" and that "it's unlikely he'll play a down of football" for the Irish. Apparently Notre Dame was the only Division I pro­gram to actually recruit this young man. 
So why would Notre Dame grant one of its 85 coveted football scholarships to an undersized lineman who has next to no chance of actually playing here? There are only 19 members of the Irish football program's Class of 2001 -an elite corps of superior athletes carefully chosen from all over the country. Does John Jordan really deserve to be one of them? 
Tho answer, I'm afraid, has more to do with what is in the new College of Business Administration (COBA) build­ing than it has to do with anything that will transpire on the field in Notre Dame Stadium. At the center of COBA lies the Jordan Auditorium which is, of course, named in honor of John Jordan II, a major University donor and prominent alumnus. The football player of the same name who will be joining the Irish in the fall is his son. 
In light of this, it is hard to interpret young Jordan's questionable football scholarship as anything but a simple and direct quid pro quo. The University seems to be sending his father a four year, $100,000 plus "thank you" note for his continuing generosity. And while not in violation of any NCM rule or reg­ulation, this incident is certainly not in the spirit of the "higher standard" to which this University claims to aspire. The de facto selling of scholarships is really not that far removed from bribing players to accept them. 
It is hard to blame either of the Jordans for their roles in this matter. Obviously, the father dearly loves both his son and the University and would like to see them brought together. It is hard to fault a man for using his influ­ence to help his child. The son is no doubt a lifelong fan of the Irish who would love to play football here; natural­ly he accepted the scholarship offer even if in the back of his mind he knows it is not entirely legitimate. Both Jordans seem to be acting only in pursuit of their personal dreams. 
But the University officials who 
arranged and sanctioned this are per­forming a great disservice to Notre Dame. A university worthy of the name must be a meritocracy: admissions are granted to the most talented candidates, tho best available instructors are select­ed for the faculty and then those who distinguish themselves are rewarded with tenure, and in the case of the flag­ship sports programs the best athletes in the country are offered scholarships in exchange for bringing their abilities to the school. Granted this is an idealistic view but a university should be an ideal­istic place. That simple truth seemed to have been obscured by this school's unending quest to put up new buildings and increase the size of the endowment. 
This Jordan incident seems to set a dangerous precedent. What if the vari­ous DeBartolo heirs decide to collective­ly take up football? Is an all DeBartolo defensive line out of the question? After all that family gave an entire quad, not just an auditorium. What about the Pasquerillas? With three buildings on campus bearing the family name that should be in line to get oven third and fourth cousins football scholarships if they so desire. 
Where does something like this stop? Let's say there is some mega-donor who has no interest in football but really enjoys, say, Shelby Foote novels about the Civil War. Following the Jordan precedent, how much would one have to give to be named an associate professor of history? I know that such a scenario is far fetched, but if Notre Dame is going to hang out a "for sale" sign over by the Joyce Center, why not in front of the Dome too? 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. !lis column appears every othe Monday. 
• DOONESBU!W GARRY TRUDEAU 
Of< HA~ ITATA CY!!e<
Ya'lKNOr:U, FOP57ER, Ya'l 
c:A$1 SV AU. TH& 6Ue575 tJM...ACTl/Att:t
6/JY5Olf7HT7D$TMAR­
CAN PLAYON TH/3. tueB.' OR /(/,13/(/13/?& 7HINK­
R/13/?0NTH& sma 
AT '5/T &'5PIN, a/HER£&Vff/?.Y­IN6OrA CHURCH
NECPL£! ANI/HAVeF/1?13­
tW~ Of< 90M&7HING/ ON/3. CAN PANC&ANI?/?OlH/3/R I tAIINPRYAfl£1< TH/3. t:a<£MJNY! 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Man is by nature a political animal. 
-Aristotle 


Monday, February 17, 1997 
Excitement Erupts in 'Dante's Peak' 
DANTE'S PEAK 

Directed bf: Roger Donaldson Starring: Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton 

ill 
(Out of five shamrocks) W 
L--------...,=,--,--.,.,,,.""···'""""'·-··""·····=···""···""·==,..._,,;~_·, 
By JOSHUA BECK 
Accenr Movie Critic 
0 
ne might think to make a thriller about a volcano is easy nowadays. All you really need are some decent actors to go around yelling chaotically while they stare at an erupting volcano that can potentially destroy them. But, how do you make the volcano appear to be as menacing as it is supposed to be on screen? For the answer to that, ask the producers of "Dante's Peak". When Mount St. Helen's erupted in 1980, all that was really caught on tape were some composite photos put together to show what the erup­tion looked like. One might think making a volcano explode in a movie would not look as realistic due to computer-generated side effects. As has been the trend throughout the recent history of high-budget movie blockbusters, the producers and computer experts have again amazed us by making the impossible possible. Through the rapidly growing medium of special effects, moviemakers have taken a vol­cano that doesn't really exist and created a moneymaker. "Dante's Peak" is a thrill ride in which a seemingly dead volcano reawak­ens to wreak havoc on a small town. people are murdered in a hot spring as the temperature of the volcano rises, a council meeting is prompted. However, Harry's boss comes in to prevent any further action from being taken. Assuming the role of the for­gotten man, Harry courts the attractive m~yor _until the volcano inevitably blows its top. You can rmagme what happens after that: mass chaos as the town is evacuated and everything is blown to bits. 
The facet of this movie that I particularly enjoyed, besides the special effects, of course, was the fact that I didn't mind waiting for the volcano to erupt and the action to ensue. Everything that happens up to that point is smartly done as a result of the script, and thus moviegoers will not find themselves waiting for some­thing to happen as they work through the inevitable bor­ing preamble. The camerawork is fantastic. The audi­

More and more in today's A volcano and love are two natural phenomena which movie thriller circles, natural dis­Pierce Brosnan must confront in the thriller "Dante's 
Peak."

asters are growing into the role onhc hot topic. Actually, the first real natural disaster blockbuster was in 197 4 with the release of the film"Earthquake." However, the movie's lacktuster results prompted a hold on all natural disaster films from that point on. But in recent years, with the increasing technology in the area of special effects and computer-generated graphics, filmmakers have felt more confident about reaching into the cornu­copia of natural horrors. Films like "Jurassic Park" (a natural disaster because, well, they're dinosaurs) and "Twister" have proved that natural occurrences which kill thousands per year can make money. 
"Dante's Peak" is one such film. The first of what will be a tsunami of volcano movies, it serves its purpose more than adequately by being a high-budget natural disaster thriller with plenty of action. The movie begins during an eruption of a volcano somewhere in Colombia. As the volcanologists who have been studying it prepare to leave. Harry (Pierce Brosnan) arrives with a truck to escape. With his girlfriend in the car with him, he tries to exit the town, but not before a piece of volcanic rock kills his passenger. Some years later, his boss instructs him to check up on a dormant volcano outside the town of Dante's Peak, which has just for some odd reason received "Money" magazine's award as the second best town to live in in the U.S. (try and figure THAT one out). Daulton travels around with the mayor (Linda Hamilton) and her two children to survey the situation. After two ence is endowed with a plethora of beautiful scenery shots as the setting happens to be the lovely state of Washington. The panoramic views of the vol­cano are the real treat as we wonder if what we're looking at is really there. Part of the movie was filmed in an actual volcano, but all the other views of it are completely computer· generated. Watch for some especially good shots of Linda Hamilton looking out her car window as the mountain erupts. 
The only thing to dislike about this movie is the lack of originality in the script, which is painfully obvious. The ·movie does take place around the same area as Mount St. Helen's, and the skepticism on the part of the volcanologists about the mountain exploding is rem­iniscent of the same opin­ion held about St. Helen's around the turn of the decade. Also, the character of Linda Hamilton's moth­er-in-law, who lives in a 
cabin near the mountain, is taken directly from an account of a man who went on living in his cabin even with the threat of a St. Helen's eruption. In fact, the line the woman uses in the movie ("That mountain won't hurt us") can be attributed to that man on the mountain. 
Despite the lack of originality in the script, the movie is blessed with great acting on the parts of all the major characters. Pierce Brosnan, having already had the action experience of "Goldeneye," is the perfect choice for the role of the cautious volcanologist with a somber past. Linda Hamilton, in her first big role sin_ce "Terminator 2," is well-cast as the mayor and protective mother of two children who had their father run out on them. There is of course a relationship spurned between the two primary characters, and it is only deep­ened as the movie progresses through a lava-oriented climax. Again we see in the aftermath of the disaster the comfortable view of everybody pulling together to help everyone else. 
This movie is no "Twister II,", but, hey, it's everything you could ask for in a film of this magnitude. It has plot, a beautiful setting, good acting, and a special flare for bringing the unexpected out of the expectecl But the real basis for the film is the special effects, and they do not disappoint. They may even heighten our expecta­tions for the next natural disaster film to come out in the theaters. So to catch a pre-summer blockbuster worth watching, enjoy the inferno of "Dante's Peak." 

1
. Absolute Power 1 . Phenomenon 

2. 
Star Wars: Special Edition 2. A Time To Kill 

3. 
Dante's Peak 3. Kingpin 

4. 
Vegas Vacation 4. The Rock 

5. 
Fools Rush In 5. Escape from L.A. 

6. 
Jerry Maguire 6. Fled 

7. 
That Darn Cat 7. Tin Cup 

8. 
The English Patient 8. Chain Reaction 

9. 
Scream 9. Fargo l 0. Dangerous Ground 10. Island of Dr. Moreau 


Source: Associated Press Source: Billboard Online 
Monday, February 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
• NASCAR 


Gordon pulls off emotional finish at Daytona 
By MIKE HARRIS 
Associated Press Writer 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
Jeff Gordon celebrated his Daytona 500 victory with tears in his eyes and a heartfelt message for his ailing car owner Rick Hendrick. 
At the same moment, Dale Earnhardt stood and surveyed the wreckage of the car that was supposed to end his ago­nizing winless streak in NASCAR's greatest race. 
"We love you," Gordon told Hendrick by cell phone from Victory Lane. "This one's for you." 
Hendrick, whose elite team finished 1-2-3 in Sunday's race, has leukemia and missed the Daytona 500 for the first time in 13 years. 
The 25-year-old Gordon became the youngest Daytona 500 winner, while Earnhardt, at 45, again fell to the jinx that has kept him from winning the biggest Winston Cup race of them all in 19 tries. 
This time, it was a crash less than 12 laps from the end that left Earnhardt, a seven-time series champion with 70 victories in other races, shaking his head in dismay. 
"Give me some room, I'd like to take a look at this car," Earnhardt said. He brought the battered Chevrolet in 31st after contending all the way to lap 189 of the 200-lap event. 
After Earnhardt's misfortune, Gordon snatched victory from two-time Daytona 500 winner Bill Elliott with a spectacular pass, winning the season­opening race in only his fifth try. 
Earnhardt was running second to Elliott when it appeared he got too high on the banking running off turn two at the 2 1/2-mile Daytona International Speedway. 
His Chevrolet smashed hard into the wall, igniting a melee in which defend­ing and two-time Daytona winner Dale Jarrett and his Robert Yates Racing teammate, former champion Ernie Irvan, also were involved. 
"Gordon came up on me and the car pushed off the corner," said Earnhardt, seriously injured in a similar crash last July at Talladega, Ala. "I got into the wall, checked up, somebody hit me from behind. Next thing I know, we're on the roof again. Luckily, no one else hit the car. We just sort treated for the recently of bounced around." '~couldn't have done diagnosed disease. 

Gordon, within a few it without those Just one lap after car-lengths of losing a Gordon took the lead, a lap earlier in the race, guys. That was team-collision in turn four was second to Elliott's work out there on the between Bobby Ford, followed by Hamilton and Johnny defending Winston Cup race track at the end.' Benson Jr., started a champion Terry 10-car crash that kept Labonte and new team-Jeff Gordon Elliott from mounting mate Ricky Craven. -------------any kind of attack. 
When the green flag waved again on the 194th of 200 laps, Gordon immedi­ately tried to get past Elliott in the sec­ond turn but was blocked. 
As the two crossed the finish line at the end of that lap, Gordon went almost to the infield grass to drive his Chevy into the lead. 
His teammates were then able to get past Elliott on the high side between turns one and two. 
Gordon, the 1995 series champion, pounded his fists on top of the car in celebration after reaching the Victory Lane. 
"What a way to do it, 1-2-3 Hendrick, and I couldn't have done it without those guys," Gordon said. "That was teamwork out there on the race track there at the end. 
"I didn't think I could get by Bill, but I'll tell you what, we were working him over pretty bad. I'll bet he was a little worried seeing those Hendrick cars back there." 
Hendrick, 47, who also is under fed-era! indictment for irregularities involving his auto dealerships, watched the race on television from his home in Charlotte, N.C., where he is being 
"Whenever Jeff and Terry and Ricky hooked up, I was history," Elliott said. "I knew it. I was a sitting duck there at the end. 
"He (Gordon) just got a good run on me and I couldn't do nothing about it, but that's the most positive way I've started a season in a long time. I guess it's more satisfying than winning (Daytona) in 1987)." 
Earnhardt, a seven-time Winston Cup champion, was among the leaders all day and appeared in good position to make a run for the one major victory that has eluded him until the incident on lap 189. 
After he hit the wall, Earnhardt's black No. 3 was struck by Jarrett's Ford and flipped. While airborne, it rook off the hood of Irvan's car. Then it violently flipped back onto its wheels and skidded to the infield grass. 
Earnhardt got out of the battered car without help and stepped into an ambulance. But moments later, he got out of the safety vehicle and jumped into his car. 
He fired it up, and he drove it slowly back to the pits, where the Richard Childress team taped some of the pieces down and sent him back out to finish the race. 
"I just wanted to get back in the race, try to make laps," Earnhardt said. "We're running for a championship." 
Elliott wound up fourth, followed by two-time winner Sterling Marlin, Jeremy Mayfield, Mark Martin, Ward Burton, Ricky Rudd and rormer race winner Darrell Waltrip. 
Despite fears earlier in the week that passing would be difficult if not impos­sible, the 39th edition of NASCAR's biggest event turned out to )le a spec­tacular one. 
The lead pack often had as many as 25 cars until late in the race, when the front six finally broke away. In all, there were 12 lead changes among nine drivers and numerous positions changes throughout the rest of the 42­car field. 
Eight caution flags slowed the race for 29 laps as Gordon averaged 
148.295 mph. 

He won $377,410 for his 20th victory at the start of only his fifth full season in NASCAR's top division. 
The first yellow flag came out on lap nine, when defending champion Labonte and Robert Pressley bumped together, sending Pressley's car skid­ding toward the infield. 
The Chevrolet, sliding backward, reared into the air, pivoting on its nose before banging down on its wheels and sliding through the infield grass before stopping. 
Pressley got out of the car unassisted. He was taken to a nearby hospital for X-rays after complaining of pain near his tailbone. The X-rays were negative. Meanwhile, his car was repaired and relief driver Todd Bodine put it back into the race. 
Johnny Benson Jr., part of the late­race melee, also was taken to the hos­pital, where he was undergoing a CAT­Scan of his pelvic area. There were several other crashes, but no serious injuries. 
Rusty Wallace, hoping to finally end his Daytona woes, ran strong early, but went out on the 48th lap with an engine failure. He wound up 41st. 
It was the first Daytona 500 to finish under caution since 1991 when Irvan won after Earnhardt and Davey Allison crashed late in the race. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  I ILOST & FOUND I Campus Manager: $1 ,500·$5K p/1 fit Student Advantages seeks individual to  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENTCENTER The Early Childhood Development  Bed • Queensize orthopedic premi· um mattress set. Never used still in package · cost 550 sacrifice 175.  "l'lllook out for him this summer, if we're still friends."  
SPRING BREAK  FOUND: HEMP NECKLACE WITH  develop local area. Sales/mktg a  Center at Notre Dame (18680 Bulla  (219} 67 4-2352  "You don't have to dance with my  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  TURTLE STONE BEHIND THE  plus. For more info go to our web  Road} is currently accepting appli­ mom."  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  BOOKSTORE ON SATURDAY.  site at  cations for an Assistant Teacher to  Must sell. 1988 Mercury Tracer.  "Actually, I asked her to dance."  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  CALL AMY 4-2880.  www.studentadvantage.com  work with 3 to 6 year old children.  5-speed. $850.00 or best offer.  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  or call 800-333-2920  The hours for this position are  Looks goodl 257-7872.  Is your band ready? Rent a full- 
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  If anyone has found a computer  11 :00a.m.-6:00p.m (or possibly  production studio at $100 a day. I'll  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE BIGGEST PARTY.  disc labeled "Sophomore Year" in the library computer lab please con- FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  1 :15-6:00p.m.}, Monday through Friday from February 24 through  TICKETS  Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  tact Beth at x1514. Thank you.  COUNSELORS needed for out­standing Maine camps! CAMP  May 16, 1997 with a possiblity of extending beyond May 16. If you  Need two GAs for Men's BB Game  ATTN SENIORS!!.....................  
VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  are interested in applying for this  Saturday, Feb 22 vs. Providence.  TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE @  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  WANTED  for boys. Each located on magnificent lake­ poisiton , please call Terri Kosik or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 for  Call Shirley@ 631-7471 before 3PM or 272-3753 after 4.  LAFORTUNE INFO DESK FOR THE BLACKHAWKS V. STARS  
Phone 631-CQPY  front setting with exceptional facili­ more information and an applica- HOCKEY GAME.  
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS!  ties. Over 1 00 positions at each  lion.  ########################  FEB. 25TH TICKETS ARE $20  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Tues.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  ColorWorks is currently recruiting on campus for a limited number of summer '97 management positions. Gain hands on experience in man­aging a business in your hometown.  camp for heads and assistants in tennis, basketball, baseball, volley­ball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, field hockey, roller hockey, swimming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, water-ski- FOR RENT Homes for Rent for 97-98  2 tix for BULLS vs Spurs March 5, 8 pm Chicago Call Jenny @ 687-8435 ########################  GAME STARTS@ 7:30PM SPOTS ARE LIMITED!! Farley Hall Players Presents ANTIGONE  
Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  Opportunities available in SOUTH BEND, ELKHART, FT.WAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and other areas.  ing, archery, weight training, athletic trainer, journalism, photography, ceramics, crafts, drama, dance  ADT Security 232-2595 AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM  PERSONAL  Wed Feb. 19, Thur Feb 20 8 pm LaFortune Ballroom  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Summer earnings $7-$9,000. To  Uazz, tap, ballet}, nature study,  HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  ADOPTION:  
SPRING BREAK! MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND S. PADRE, TX BEACHFRONT CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO B. FROM $695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT­ED BY OWNER.  speak to a campus representative call1-800-477-1001. ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  backpacking, horseback riding, ropes course, trip leaders, mountain biking, riflery, general (w/youngest campers}. Also looking for secretaries, mainte­nance, kitchen. Camp dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 FAX 1185 POTATO HOUSE-8-BDRM-FOR  JAZZERCJSE Very close to campus 277-0111 Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Method 674-6933  Corporate Executive & homemaker can offer newborn a wonderful life filled with warmth, security, endless love, education & a bright future. Confidential. Mark & Candace 1-888-811-1141  
941-642-5483 MICHJANA PAINTBALL IS NOW OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL. CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO. •••ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­DA. 1-800-838-8203 Congrats, Body Talkers!  Call (919}918-7767, ext.A154. EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, etc. teaching simple conversational English. No languages/teaching exp. required. (919}918-7767, Ext. W154. SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHI OREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373  salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­ing, and travel allowance. MEN­CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 Beacon Street, Brookling, MA 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888­844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332, jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097. NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO 2773097 Need a townhouse this summer? We need to sublet ours! Call us at 273-9829! FOR SALE GENESIS w/ 2 6-button ctrlrs, 9 top games. $150. 1-4639.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! The highest quality color copies are now available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Is your band ready? Rent a full-production studio at $100 a day. I'll Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 Hey hey Nerea  Liz, will you be wanting some saltine crackers to go with all that soup? Californians just don't know what's about to hit 'em .... If it's too loud for you, you're a ..... well, you know. That's_ a sheep. I think I'll call this one ... lunch. Hello, Lunch!  



Monday, February 17, 1997 ~ The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Shooting for the top 
The Observer/Mike Ruma The Notre Dame men's track team placed second at the Big East Indoor Championships this weekend. The women's team finished eighth. 
See tomorrow's Observer for coverage 
Pre-Professional Society: The Pre-Professional Society will be meeting Tuesday, February 18 from 
6:30 to 8:00p.m. in 127 NSH to discuss med-school life with several 2nd year med-students. Elections for nextyear's officers will also be held! See you there! 

African Student Association: 
film: "The New Gods" by Ali Mazrui. Followed by a panel discussion on: "The Impact of Islam & Christianity in Africa" -February 19 @ 7:00 p.m.in 
155 DeBartolo. FREE ADMISSION! 
Lecture: "My experience in Cameroon: That Rocky Place and Women Issues in Africa" by prof. Ann Loux of Saint Mary's College. Thursday, February 20 @4:15p.m. in Hesburgh Center Auditorium. FREE ADMISSION! 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you andyour organization! 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 


Refs take NC State past Wake 
By JOE MACENKA 
Associated Press Writer 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
The refs blew another one in the ACC and this time it shuf­fled the league standings. 
North Carolina State stunned No. 2 Wake Forest when Clint Harrison was given credit for a 3-pointer at the buzzer in over­time -even though his foot was inside the arc -for a 60­59 victory Sunday. 
"I haven't seen a replay and I don't want to," a jubilant Harrison said. "It was a tough call for the referees to make, and I'm sure they used the best judg~ent they could." 
Television replays showed that Harrison launched the shot in time but that his left foot was clearly touching the line. Officials Sam Croft, Raymie Styons and Mike Wood looked at each other, agreed that it was a 3-pointer and ran off the floor, letting the Wolfpack play­ers pile on each other in a wild celebration near the basket where Harrison banked in the winner from the left wing. 
It marked the second Atlantic Coast Conference game in five days in which a blown late­game call by officials helped decide the outcome. Duke defeated Virginia 62-61 Tuesday night after the officials mismanaged the clock and an attempted substitution in the closing seconds. The ACC sus­pended the three officials involved in that incident for one game each. 
Fred Barakat, the ACC's head of officials, had a courtside seat for Sunday's game at Lawrence Joel Coliseum, but he left at halftime. Eff(')rts to reach him by telephone Sunday night were unsuccessful. 
"It's not just what we did today, but what this time has done each step along the way," 





is looking for volunteers! 
Driver training sessions 

will be offered this week 
Monday, February 17 3-5:30 p.m. Wednesday, February 19 7-9:30 p.m. in the basement· of the Security building Training is mandatory for volunteers! Questions? Calll-4552 
SafeRide starts this Friday! Watch for more details! 
first-year Wolfpack coach Herb Sendek said after N.C. State (10-12, 2-11) won for the first time in nine league road games. "This team has worked very hard to get to the spot that they reached today." 
Wake Forest (20-3, 9-3) fell one-half game behind league leader Duke (21-5, 10-3) despite getting 25 points and 18 rebounds from Tim Duncan. 
"This is a difficult loss, but nobody died," said coach Dave Odom, whose Demon Deacons have won the last two ACC titles. "What you do is try to regroup. We have a difficult assign.ment going to Chapel Hill on Wednesday, but I guarantee you this team will be ready." 
Odom said he had not seen a replay of Harrison's basket. "It wouldn't make any differ­ence if I had," he said. Sendek offered a similar per­spective. _ 
"Both sides will go back and look at the game and say, 'What if for many plays," he said. 
Harrison finished with 21 points for the Wolfpack, which had lost nine games this year to ranked teams, including seven to those in the Top 10. 
N.C. State also got 15 points from Jeremy Hyatt and 10 from Ishua Benjamin. 
Duncan picked up three fouls in the first nine minutes but stayed in and wound up playing 44 minutes. The Demon Deacons also got 16 points from Tony Rutland. 
There were four lead changes and two ties in overtime before Benjamin banked in a runner in the lane to put the Wolfpack up 57-55 with 1:13left. 
Rutland tied it with a pair of free throws at the 55-second mark. 
Harrison missed a 30-footer as the shot clock expired on the Wolfpack's next possession, and Wake Forest got the rebound with 17 seconds left. Rutland brought the ball upcourt, drove to the foul line and launched a 15-footer that swished through. 
The Wolfpack got the ball to halfcourt and gave it to the 6­foot-4 Harrison, who took sev­eral dribbles and launched the ball over the outstretched arms of 6-10 Ricky Peral for the game-winner. 
N.C. State trailed by. nine with 13 minutes left before going on a 16-6 surge, taking a 48-47 lead on Harrison's 3-pointer with 4:21 remaining 
Free throws by Duncan and Jerry Braswell put the Demon Deacons back up by two going into the final minute, but N.C. State freshman Justin Gainey stole the ball from Rutland at midcourt and went in for a layup that tied it at 50 with 35 seconds left. 
Duncan and Rutland-both missed short jumpers in the last six seconds of regulation. 
NEw MExice 57 . TULSA 51 

ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. Same basket. Same Smith. Same result. 
New Mexico senior guard Charles Smith, at his best in big games, scored 18 points and hit the two free throws with 12.5 seconds left Sunday that gave No. 13 New Mexico a 57-51 win over Tulsa. 
The win gave Ne~ Mexico (20-4, 9-3) its eighth 20-win season in the past nine years -· and moved the Lobos into a tie with Tulsa (19-7, 9-3) for sec­ond place in the Mountain Division of the Western Athletic Conference behind Utah. 
Smith's two free throws were reminiscent of his clutch foul shooting in last year's WAC tournament. 



• 
.. 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Sales closes deal on Miami 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY 
Associated Press Writer 
HARTFORD, Conn. 

Nykesha Sales stole the show as top-ranked Connecticut silenced the trash-talking Miami Hurricanes. 
Sales scored 16 points and had five of her team's 11 steals as the top-ranked Huskies rout­ed Miami 86-59. Sales has had at least 100 steals in three straight seasons, becoming the first UConn player to accomplish the feat. 
"Probably more than anyone we've ever had, she has the best sense of where the ball is going to go next," Huskies coach Geno Auriemma said. "She just has a feeling. And that's because she very, very rarely ... never ever, takes her eyes off the ball. Some kids are surprised by the next past. She's not." 
Kara Wolters also scored 16 points for UConn (24-0, 15-0 Big East), which jumped ahead with an early 14-0 spurt before building a lead as big as 65-25 in its seventh straight win 'over Miami (11-12, 6-9). 

TEAM  RECORD  
1. Kansas  25-1  
2. Wake Forest  20-3  
3. Minnesota  22-2  
4. Kentucky  24-3  
5. Utah  19-3  
6. Duke  21-5  
7. Clemson  20-5  
8. Cincinnati  19-5  
9. Iowa St.  18-4  
10. Maryland  19-6  
11. Arizona  16-6  

12. 
South Carolina 18-6 

13. 
New Mexico 20-4 14. Michigan 17-7 15. Colorado 17-7 



16. North Carolina 17-6 17. Louisville 19-5 18. Villanova 18-7 19. Xavier 18-4 20. Illinois 18-7 
21. Texas Tech 15-7 22. Stanford 15-6 23. Tulane 16-9 24. UCLA 15-7 25. Charleston 23-2 
The Observer/ Sue O'Kain 

~ 850 Discount With ~ Your Student I.D.I 
~~,l\~ ~~&1,Yh=:!HJ
OOlll IUOOl OOI!ll. -.....__A_ I,,!_ 
ll~~eabreak.com 

~BF.IEA'K\ 
TAI~E A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL PuhUc cl.rm a.ho mC...U. '"""•Yl M"""".,,.AV .\Jimnc .~ 
a-"1.UAIII!Ik5a.lo.!T:...I.A> , l'lo!o 

"We came in here knowing · we had to do two things," said 
Miami coach Ferne Labati, referring to stopping UConn's transition game and keeping the ball away from the 6-foot-7 Wolters. 
"We certainly didn't," she said. "Consequently, at the half, the ballgame was pretty much out of reach." 
Even six 3-pointers by Desma Thomas couldn't make a dent. Thomas, who matched her career high from beyond the arc and finished with 27 points, was booed when she connected in the second half. 
"I didn't take it personally. UConn is the home team," Thomas said. "The crowd wasn't a factor for what I had to do. I just did what I usually do every game." 
It was Thomas who had done a good part of the talking when the teams met down in Miami last month, a 69-51 loss for the Hurricanes. She was much qui­eter this time around. 
"I didn't hear a peep," said UConn rookie Shea Ralph, who added 14 points off the bench. 
~~ ...TAKES THE IDEA OF AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION' TO ITS OUTER LIMITS" -Variety -People Magazine ALMOST HURTS" -Anonymous 
Come see the Campus Entertainer of the Year ... 


Tom DeLuca 
America's most talented, not to mention best looking, hypnotist!!! 
Tuesday, Feb. I 8 and Wednesday, Feb. 19th at 8:00p.m. 
Library Auditorium Tickets on sale for $3 at the Lafortune Info Desk 
Brought to you by Student Activities 

OUR PORTIONS ARE BIGGER THAN YOUR HISTORY BOOK. 
Fazolis wrote the book on fast Italian. And our authentic Italian entrees from Alfredo to Ziti are big enough to feed a fraternity. 

Real Italian. Real F ast.'M 52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 
Connecticut used relentless defensive pressure to frustrate the Hurricanes, limiting them to 22 percent shooting from the floor on the way to a 50-21 half­time lead. 
Rita Williams was a key force for the Huskies in the early going, scoring nine points and finishings with four steals as Connecticut shot 61 percent in the first half. She scored on two straight fast breaks to spark the 14-0 run that put the Huskies up 17-2 less than eight minutes in. 
Miami never got closer. UConn, which has been beating opponents by an average of nearly 30 points, went ahead by as much as 65-25 in the second half without starter Carla Berube, who sustained a slight sprain to her right ankle just before the break. She was listed as day-to-day after the game. 
The crowd of 16,294 was the Huskies' second straight sellout of the season at the Hartford Civic Center. UConn, the No. 1 draw in the sport, beat then-No. 8 Tennessee at the Civic Center last month. 
Monday, February 17, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 



Tennis 
continued from page 20 
On Sunday the Irish again 
· battled back from losing the doubles point. but this time came up victorious with a win from junior Eric Enloe in the final match to give Notre Dame the upset win against the No. 8 Duke Blue devils. Enloe came back from one set down to beat Porter Jones 6-7. 7-6, 6-1. In No. 1 singles Sachire defeated 18th ranked Dmitry Muzyka coming from behind 6­7, 6-1. 6-4. No. 38 Sachire has been virtually unstoppable in dual matches this season. Doug Root defeated Pietrowski in two sets 6-4, 7-5 in No. 2 singles. Patterson fell to Alberto Krause 6-2, 6-3. Simme and Rothschild both won at No. 4 and 5 singles respectively. "We are pretty excited about beating a top-10 team," Rothschild said. "We realized that since we were so close on Saturday that we could come back and win on Sunday." 
In the doubles matches it was all Duke. Muzyka and Sven Koehler defeated Pietrowski and Patterson in No. 1 doubles 8-4.,Root and Jordan Wile won 8-5 · over Simme and Rothschild. And at No. 3 dou­bles Adam Gusky and Jones defeated Sachire and Miller 8­
4. With the overall loss Duke fell to 1-1. 
The team will take today off in order to rest after the exhausting weekend and pre­pare for its next match. The 7­2 Irish will face the 3-0 Indiana Hoosiers Tuesday at 4 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
"We're a little tired after the weekend," Rothchild said. "But we have a match on Tuesday, so we're taking a day off in order to get ready for Indiana." 
Although after playing two top-1 0 teams, Indiana might seem like a little bit of break for the Irish, the team is not taking Tuesday's match lightly. 
"We have to stay focussed, and we can't get too excited about the win against Duke" Sachire said. "Indiana is going to be ready to play us, so we need to be ready to play." 

W.Hoops 
continued from page 20 
McGraw's squad has scored over ninety in a contest as they entered yesterday's contest fresh off a 91-64 win over Boston College. 
"It was a good win for us," Morgan commented. "They [Providence] are tied for first place of their side of the bracket so it was important for us to have a solid victory." 
McGraw has seen her squad rebound from the disappointing UConn loss and the loss of Kari Hutchinson, who suffered a bro­ken hand last week, to have their most prolific scoring week of the year. 
The Irish, who never trailed, jumped out to a 17-9 lead five minutes into the game, but the Friars looked like they were going to give the No. 17 team in the country a game as they tied it at 20 a piece. 

But Notre Dame put those thoughts to rest as they went on a 14-1 run that was capped off with a Mollie Peirick three ball to give them a cushion that the hosts could not overcome. 
Superstar Morgan was too much for the Friars as she was all over the court as she added 11 rebounds, six steals, aiid five assists to her 20 points and Gaither dominated the paint once again with 23 points and 10 rebounds. 
Bohman, whose 21 points mark a career high, scored 14 in the second half as she scored three straight buckets to give the Blue and Gold a 20 point lead with 3:02 remaining. 
The entire squad was hot in the second stanza as the team shot 60 percent from the field. 
The Irish also got solid play from their perimeter players as senior Jeannine Augustin had seven points and eight assists and Peirick added 14 points and seven assists. 
The Irish only played eight players as all the starters were 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Jeannine Augustin contributed seven points and eight assists as the Irish rolled over Providence yesterday. 
forced to play over 30 minutes. Off the bench, McGraw got twelve points as sophomore guard Sheila McMillen played only nine minutes but scored eight points on 3 of 4 shooting with two three-pointers and freshman center Julie Henderson added four. 
"We don't have much of a bench right now, so every game, everyone has contributed," Morgan continued. "Rosanne had a career-high and Adrienne [Jordan] and Julie have really stepped up for us." 
Forwards Kerri Chatten and Nadine Malcolm were two of the few bright spots for the Friars as 
LEGAL SECRETARY WANTED: 
Fast-growing law firm in University Park Moll area requires receptionist/office assistant familiar with WordPerfect 6.1 for Windows. Full or part time. 
Send resume to: P.O. Box 511 Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
they had 21 and 2 3 points respectively. 
McGraw's squad will return home for their last two home games of the season as the Villanova Wildcats will come to the Joyce Center this Wednesday and Seton Hall will visit this Saturday. Neither of those squads provided the Domers much of challenge the last time around as the Irish beat the Wildcats and Pirates by an aver­age of 31 points. 
"We are basically undefeated, besides UConn," Morgan said. · 
"So right now, we are basical­ly playing for an NCAA tourna­ment seed," she added. 


page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, February 17, 1997 
"Matt Gotsch gave us a 
•NBA

tremendous game of basket­ball," MacLeod said. 
continued from page 20 The battle of the superstars 



-M.Hoops 
Hill's future remains in question
did not disappoint as Pat 
Antoni Wyche and Admore Garrity and Villanova freshman White left the Irish down one in Tim Thomas each led their By MIKE NADEL and six steals. "We think we're around," Bulls center Luc the waning seconds. After teams with 22 points. Both Associated Press Writer a lot better than Orlando ... so Longley said. "If we don't another Wildcat miss at the players converted crucial bas­we should blow them out." always isolate with Michael, it line, Notre Dame had the ball kets down the stretch. Garrity CHICAGO Toni Kukoc added 20 points, puts us in better rebounding down three before White was continued to get open off For the Chicago Bulls, it was Michael Jordan had 19 points position." whistled for a double dribble, screens while Thomas' perfect another routine victory. For the and 10 assists and Dennis The Bulls dominated the sec­killing the rally. free throw shooting at game's Orlando Magic, it was another Rodman pulled down 13 ond quarter, outrebounding the 
As MacLeod said after the end buried the Irish. step in the freefall that has rebounds for the Bulls, who out­Magic 14-5, to take a 58-46 game, the days have passed The Villanova defense may touched off reports that coach rebounded Orlando ~3-30 and halftime lead. Chicago had as when the Irish are merely .have been the real superstar Brian Hill is on his way out. had 36 assists to the Magic's 14. many offensive rebounds in the happy with just being close to a causing 11 second half Irish "I think we're all disappoint­"We're going against the best first half, 12, as Orlando had ranked team. turnovers and 19 for the game. ed with the way we've been team ever to play the game, in total boards. 
"You don't like to lose any­The Irish offensive rhythm fluc­playing," Hill said Sunday night my opinion," Orlando's Nick Two 3-pointers by Ron where and we just could not tuated against the Villanova after his team lost 110-89 to the Anderson said. "But we did lack Harper finished a 10-0 run that get control of the game," he halfcourt trap. That defense Bulls, Orlando's fourth consecu­fire and I don't know why. We put Chicago ahead 70-52 in the said. did not allow the Irish anything tive loss since the All-Star haven't approached the game third. Orlando followed with 10 
In addition to the loss, the more than brief, controlled break. like we should. The coach can consecutive points, eight by Irish may have also lost for­bursts which were not enough. "The energy level doesn't only prepare you. He can't play Hardaway, to close within eight. ward Gary Bell for the season. As opposed to their last meet­seem to be there," said Hill, the game." But Jordan made two 15-footers Bell suffered a left knee injury ing, however, Notre Dame kept whose club reached the 1995 Including last season's sweep to begin a 13-3 run that gave in the first half and never themselves in the game NBA Finals but -minus of Orlando in the Eastern the Bulls an 83-65 lead early in returned. Following the game, rebounding right along with Shaquille O'Neal -is only 24-Conference finals, the B u lis the fourth. MacLeod speculated that Bell the quicker Wildcats. Much 24 this season. "Every coach is have won nine straight against tore his anterior-cruciate liga­like the game, the Irish barely responsible for the actions of the Magic. Chicago beat SONICS 102 ment and may be lost for the lost that battle 26-25. his team, the wins and losses. Orlando by the same 110-89 
LAKERS 91

remainder of the season. For what moral victories are That comes with the territory. score earlier in the season, "It's an unfortunate injury for worth, the Irish got one on But nobody has said anything to when the Magic was without 
INGLEWOOD, Calif.

Gary Bell who is probably out Sunday. It's the type of effort me." injured Penny Hardaway, For Detlef Schremp[. it w:.ts
for the year," MacLeod said. that MacLeod hopes propels his NBC-TV reported that Hill Horace Grant and Nick 
one of the most productive

On a happier note for the team to victory Tuesday night would be fired after the game, Anderson. But Orlando had no 
games of a steady 12 -year

Irish, Matt Gotsch may have against Seton Hall. but Magic general manager excuse this time. 
career.

played the game of his career. "This is an interesting John Gabriel said llill would Hardaway's 20 points weren't For the Los Angeles Lakers, it Gotsch dominated Wildcat cen­group," MacLeod said. "We coach Monday night's game at nearly enough to reverse the could be much more costly than ter Jason Lawson all day. The are maturing and our mentality Charlotte. Still, Gabriel didn't trend for the Magic, which had just one loss.
senior seemed to literally rise is a great deal healthier than in exactly give Hill a strong vote of won 12 of 14 games heading 
Schrempf, who had more 

to every occasion with five the past." confidence. into the All-Star break. 
shooting opportunities becauseblocks and also tied his career Refusing to give up is always "As far as Brian being fired at "It's just been a complete dis­Shawn Kemp didn't play, scored high with 17 points. a good vital sign. this moment," Gabriel said, aster since the break," Rony 10 of his season-high 34 points"it's false." Seikaly said. "We haven't had 


in the fourth quarter Sunday as
At this moment? good execution offensively. 
the Seattle SuperSonics used a"We're going to evaluate a lot . Defensively, we're nowhere." 

strong finish to beat the Los

of things, all parts of our bas­Though Jordan scored 12 Angeles Lakers 102-91. 
ketball operations," Gabriel points under his league-leading The Lakers. already without
said. "We're going to try to average, he did have eight 
All-Star center Shaquille O'Nealmake some improvements." rebounds, barely missing his for a minimum of eight weeks,The Magic would have needed lirst triple-double since coming may have lost starting forward a lot of improvements to beat out of retirement 23 months Robert Horry as well.

the Bulls, who have won 16 ago. 
Horry sustained what was

consecutive home games and He also had four steals, mov­termed a sprained knee early inhave an NBA-best 45-6 overall ing him past Alvin Hobertson 
the fourth quarter. but it

record. into third place on the NBA 
appeared more serious than

"We played very well. with career list with 2,113. 
that.

balanced scoring and rebound­"We've been trying to get Ilorry, who will be re-exam­ing and a lot of assists," said everybody more involved in tlw ined Monday morning, left theScottie Pippen, who had 22 oll"ense, and Michael and Scottie Forum on crutches with his legpoints, 11 assists, six rebounds did a nice job of moving the ball in a large brace. 
WHAT•s THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
-
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Matt Gotsch had a career-high 17 points and contributed five blocks to 
SUNDAY. FEBRUARY 23
the Irish effort in the loss to Villanova on Sunday. 
1:00 -4:30 PM 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationship -Steps in making healthy decisions -Long-distance relationships 
THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED ... BY FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Questions? Call 631-5242 

----~--------~~---­
Monday, February 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• NHl 
-


Flyers complete weekend sweep of Penguins 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Wri rer 
PITTSBURGH 

If the Philadelphia Flyers can dominate the Pittsburgh Penguins like this without Eric Lindros, they must wonder what it would be like in the playoffs with him. 
The Flyers beat the Penguins without the injured Lindros for the second day in a row, rally­ing with six consecutive goals to win 6-2 Sunday night as Trent Klatt scored twice, including a go-ahead short­handed gflal. · The Flyers, who also defeated the Penguins 5-1 Saturday in Philadelphia, had been 0-10-4 in Pittsbmgh since last winning on Jan. 21,1990. 
"It started out the same old way, the same as always in Pittsburgh ... but we play differ­ent when Eric is out of there," said Rod Brind'Amour, who scored once. "lie's such a great player, we tend to rely on him, but when he's out, we have to rely on everyone." 
Lindros tried to skate before Saturday's game, but left the ice with back pain and did not play in either game of the home-and-home series. He is expected to return Wednesday against Hartford. 
"If you go through a stretch of games without him, every­body gives a little more," Flyers coach Terry Murray said. "But you don't want to go for the long haul without him because you're going to miss a top play­er like him. He's big, he's very big." 
Or, just as big as NHL scoring leader Mario Lemieux is to Pittsburgh. Lemieux had three excellent scoring chances in the opening 90 seconds, but was held without a goal in both games of the home-and-home 

Penguins coach Eddie Johnston said Lemieux is expe­riencing back pain, but Lemieux insisted he felt fine. Jarornir Jagr, who scored once and leads the NHL with 45 goals, also played sporadically in the third period, apparently because of a nagging ankle injury. 
"This weekend was a big challenge and test for us, and we failed it," Lemieux said. "We have a long way to go as a team, and I think there's a gap between the two teams right now. Obviously, we've got some pieces missing." 
The weekend wins stretched Philadelphia's lead over Pittsburgh in the Eastern Conference overall standings to nine points. 
Chris Tamer's shorthanded goal put Pittsburgh ahead 2-0, but the Penguins still lost their fourth in a row and seventh in 11 games. They have allowed 22 goals in the four games. Penguins rookie goaltender Patrick Lalime, who started his NHL career with a 16-game winning streak, has lost three of the four and now is 18-5-2. 
Klatt and John LeClair scored 
1:13 apart in the second period to tie it before Klatt's third shorthanded goal of the season at 2:27 of the third period put the Flyers ahead to stay. 
Klatt intercepted defenseman Darius Kasparaitis' dump-in pass near the Penguins' blue line, then beat Lalime from the right circle at 2:27 for the go­ahead goal as Kasparaitis couldn't get back to defend. Kasparaitis rarely plays pn. the Penguins' penalty-killing unit because of his limited puck­handling skills. 
"Nothing deflates you more than a shorthanded goal," said Johnston, whose team gave up shorthanded goals in both looking for the goal to put you ahead and then you give up a goal like that ..." 
The shorthanded goal was the 11th against Pittsburgh. 
John Druce added his seventh goal of the season and second in as many games at 8:28, and Brind'Amour scored his 18th at 
10:04. Michael Renberg scored his 13th of the season and 100th of his career at 19:32. Klatt's goals were his 16th and 17th of the season. 
Flyers backup goalie Garth Snow shut out Pittsburgh over the final two periods, stopping 28 of 30 shots. ' 
The Flyers are 9-4-1 in their last 14 road games and 12-2-1 against the Northeast Division. 
RED WINGS 4 PANTHERS 2 
MIAMI 
The Florida Panthers were missing five regulars and play­ing for the second night in a row. It showed -especially when they had to kill off eight penalties. 
The result was a 4-2 loss to the Detroit Red Wings on Sunday night. Brendan Shanahan scored his 37th goal -his eighth in four games ­and then Darren McCarty broke up a 2-2 tie with his power-play goal at 17:00 of the second period. 
"We caught Florida at a tough time," said Red Wings coach Scotty Bowman. "They've got some pretty big injuries, plus they played last night.' 
The Red Wings, coming off a 4-3 overtime loss to Dallas on Friday, enjoyed a day off at poolside in Miami on Saturday and partly Sunday. 
"We had a lot of energy in the third period," Bowman said. 
when they don't score the first goal." 
Panthers defenseman Robert Svehla scored power-play goals in each of the first two periods to lead Florida to a 2-1 lead. His only other two-goal game came on Jan. 14 against New Jersey. 
The Panthers were unable to score on a four-minute power play and Steve Yzerman's 16th goal then tied it at 2-2. 
"Playing two games in less than 24 hours is unheard of," said Panthers goalie John Vanbiesbrouck. "That's a shame." 
Tied at 2-2, the Red Wings took the lead for good on their second power-play goal at 
17:00 of the second period when McCarty's soft backhan­der squibbed between the le!J§ of Vanbiesbrouck for his 13th goal of the season. For McCarty, it was his fourth straight two-point game. 
Igor Larionov assisted on the goal, one of three he had in the game. 
"It's like when you expect the good shots to go in and they don't," McCarty said. "I don't think he knew I had it. I found the right spot." 
Vyacheslav Kozlov's 19th goal secured the Red Wings' victory with 1:45 remaining in the game. 
The Panthers managed just four shots in the third period. Chris Osgood recorded 20 saves and improved to 4-1-0 lifetime against Florida. 
Vanbiesbrouck had 15 saves in dropping to 6-12-2 against the Red Wings. 
Panthers coach Doug MacLean was upset about all the penalties that were called. 
"All of a sudden they're call­ing everything," MacLean said. "Most nights nothing is called." 
Shanahan continued his tor­rid goal-scoring pace with his eighth in the past four games. With the Red Wings holding a two-man advantage, Shanahan scored his 37th at 16:58 off a centering pass from Larionov. 
The Panthers are 5-1-2 against Central Division oppo­nents and 0-10-4 when trailing after two periods. Detroit is 24­4-6 when leading after two. 
Both teams, in second place in their respective divisions, were coming off overtime defeats. 
SABRES 6 SHARKS 2 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 

The Buffalo Sabres wanted everyone to know they aren't a one-man show starring Dominik Hasek. They have a few goal scorers -along with their ultimate goal stopper. 
Jason Dawe and Donald Audette each scored twice, and the Sabres scored five unan­swered goals in the first 23 minutes en route to a 6-2 victo­ry over the San Jose Sharks on Sunday night. 
"Obviously, he's a big part of our team," Dawe said of Hasek. "We wouldn't be in this posi­tion without him. On the other hand, we have some guys who can put the puck in the net." 
Hasek made 31 saves as the Sabres extended their unbeaten streak to"nine games-their longest in seven years -and remained in first place in the Northeast Division. But for once. he wasn't the lone reason Buffalo won. 
The Sabres scored four times in the first period, including both of Dawe's goals, and allowed Hasek to take it easy for the final two periods. Buffalo also improved to 23-3-4 when scoring first. 
Dixon Ward scored in the first period, and Michal Grosek added a goal in the third for Buffalo, 5-0-4 in its last nine games. Jeff Friesen broke up Hasek's shutout on a wrist shot with 10:06 left in the game. Owen Nolan also scored for the Sharks, who have lost four straight. 
"We didn't have to rely on Dom to make save after save after save," Sabres coach Ted Nolan said. "We wanted to get a good start." 
We accomplished that in the first two periods." 
Buffalo already had built a 2­0 lead when Dawe scored twice in the final 7:44 of the opening period and essentially put the game away. 
"We were terrible in front of our goalie," Sharks defense­man Doug Bodger said. "The next thing you know, it's 4-0." 
"It's been a while since we've played in a game like that," Audette said. "It's nice to have a wide-open game. 

130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 

SAT 8:00AM to 3:00PM
JVISAJ t;;j 
Lantz LIFETIME ·~uA"RANTEE oN MUFFLERS. BRAKE PADS & SHOES. SHOCKS. STRUTS. TO ORIGINAL PURCHASER. REPlACEMENT UPON PRESENTATION OF CERTIFICATE 
•lABOR EXCLUDED 0~ I BRAKES & STRUTS 

STUDENT DISCOUN 
ITH ID!
. ' .,

11alid with ot 
·----­
~-~------~-­

page 18 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 17, 1997 
• HOCKEY 
Boys of Winter lose two to big bad 'wolves' 
By CHARLEY GATES 

Spons Writer 
Any time a young team travels to play the top-ranked team in the country, bad things are bound to happen. 
Such was the case this week­end when the Notre Dame squad, the second-youngest in Division I hockey, took their show on the road to Yost Ice Arena in Ann Arbor, Michigan, to battle the Wolverines. 
Courtesy of a 3-1 loss on Friday night and 6-1 loss on Saturday night, the Irish (8-23-1 overall, 5-18-1 CCHA) extended their losing streak to eight games and lost ground in the race for the fmal playoff spot in the competitive Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
"Michigan's a great team," stated sophomore forward Aniket Dhadphale, who netted his first goal in fourteen games this weekend. "And it [Yost Ice Arena] is probably the hardest place to play in the country." 
Freshman defenseman Tyson Fraser, who had missed the past five games with a shoulder injury, resumed his prominent role this weekend and emphati­cally agreed. "They really are a quality team with a lot of natural goal scorers." 
On Friday evening, the team held the Wolverines scoreless through two periods, thanks mainly to junior goaltender Matt Eisler's outstanding perfor­mance. He stopped 44 of 47 shots, including the first 34 he faced, and snubbed Michigan's 
, first six power-play chances. Eisler's heroics earned him recognition as the game's "First Star," an award given to the most outstanding player in the game. This accolade is usually reserved for a player on the win­ning team, but Eisler was so impressive that he earned it. 
The third period, however, proved to be fatal for the Irish. Just 1:04 into the period, Jason Botterill found the back of the net on a Michigan power play. Michigan's Brendan Morrison, last year's CCHA Player of the Year, set up the goal, giving him his 165th assist and the Michigan all-time assist record. 
Just two minutes later, Bubba Berenzweig scored for the Wolverines, increasing the lead to 2-0. 
At the 13:44 mark of the fmal period, Michigan put the game away with a Harold Shcock goal. 
The squad was only able to !Jenerate 15 shots on goal but did have some quality scoring chances. Consolation for the loss also existed in the fact that they held the potent Michigan power­play, which came into the game leading the CCI-lA with a 30 percemt conversion rate, to a meager 1 for 9 showing. 
"We played really well on Friday night," observed Fraser. "We were with them right up until the very end. We had our opportunities but just didn't con­vert on them." 
"From the quotes in the paper," stated Dhadphale, "they didn't think that we could be able to play with them, but we did on Friday night." 
Saturday's game wasn't nearly as close. "I still think that we played well," quipped Fraser, "but we just had too many penalties. They are a tough team to stop on the power-play; they have a bunch of natural 
I{EOUGH • IUFE Come IGck it with the 'Roos 
GREAf ACOUSTIC MUSIC & KOFFEE 
Every Monday beginning February l7"J 1997 from 9-ll pm at Keough Hall 

Any interested performers, musicians or poets contact Andy Brenner @ 634-1693 
www.nd.edu/ ,..,abrenner/keoughkafe 
scorers." 

Michigan's power-play roared back into action after a dismal performance on Friday night, notching four power play goals in eight opportunities. Prior to this game, Notre Dame had only allowed more than two power­play goals only once this season, against Ferris State on Nov. 15. 
The Wolverines jumped out to a 5-0 lead after two periods. Sophomore Brian Urick gave the Irish their only goal for the evening, when he knocked home a rebound off a Craig Hagkull shot. The goal was Urick's team­leading 13th of the season. 
Injuries continue to plague the Irish. Freshman defenseman Tyson Fraser just returned fol­lowing a five-game hiatus, fresh­man Sean Seyferth did not dress due to a shoulder injury, and senior captain Terry Lorenz didn't even make the trip to Ann Arbor following an injury in practice earlier this week: Lorenz had played in 72 straight games prior to the injury. Notre Dame also played without Eisler, whom head coach Dave Poulin chose to rest. Sophomore Forrest Karr made the start, his first since Jan. 3 against Miami. 
The loss leaves the Irish four-

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Matt Eisler was a bright spot in the pair of Irish losses to Michigan. 
points behind Ferris State with ered by its eight-game slide or if 
three games remaining in the they were gearing up for this race for the final spot in the weekend, Dhadphale replied, CCHA Tournament. Ohio State "We're always looking forward. had occupied the last spot but These are winnable games this moved up in standings following weekend; it's just a matter of their win Thursday evening over doing it. We have been strug­Western Michigan. "We have gling lately, but this team has nothing left to lose or to prove," the ability to break out of slumps declared Fraser. "We just have very quickly." · to play hockey and have fun." Hopefully the leap will be 
Asked if the team was both-made before this Friday. 

Announcing the First >f';;;~~'1rr~ 
Annual Awards ofthe Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the first annual competition for travel in support of summer research and 1oreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pur­sue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs involved 
5) the names of two references 

Application Deadli":e: Friday, March 7th, 1997 
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
SOPHOMORE SERVICE \IVEEI< 
...'\.-....... ';., 

Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
Mural Painting  Tutoring, La Casa  Miss-a-Meal Day  Tutoring, La Casa  SAFERIDE,  
~-~  Volunteer Day  

Sponsored by the Class of 1999 Council i~fl9
lHoiHIWfy2~tl• :l.:tmcr 


FoR INFORMATION, CALL 1-5136 



Monday, February 17, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRlMM 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Mysterious events lead to almost magical success. Trust your heart and instincts. Coming out of your shell to socialize will help you find lasting romance. As summer approaches, devote the lion's share of your time to practical matters. Tact and compromise let you resolve simmering family disagreements. A long-forgotten ambition could receive new attention next fall. Seek legal advice before signing a con­tract. You could win a financial set­tlement early in '98. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor John Travolta, author Toni Morrison, actress Cybill Shepherd, actor Matt Dillon. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An unexpected turn of events could bring everything together for you. Balancing a budget becomes your top priority. Changing your spend­ing habits will help you preserve your lifestyle. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Papers can be signed and contracts renegotiated. Conduct business by phone and mail. An authority figure may ask questions. Two heads are better than one. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Talking over innovative ideas is exciting. Further research will show what you need to do next. Enlist your colleagues' cooperation. Joint endeavors are favored over solo pur­
DILBERT 
IT AFTER 'r'OU ( LOSE YOUR ' WILL TO LIVE.. 
62 Kind of smasher 63 Sharp as -­&4Chair 65 They hold 
hymnals 66 Where Seoul is 
DOWN 
1 Paul who sang "Having My Baby" 
2 Shipping units 3 Cheer (for) 4 Andean of old 5lnquiring 6 Relinquished 7Schmoes a G.l. entertainers sEach 
10 Rights protection grp. 11 Chicken house 121n the ball park 13 
~~~~~·as a 18 "Able was 1-­
33 Monastery 46 Be of one mind 54 Dog inOz V.I.P. 
47 Finnish bath 55 Bring up

19 Historic county of Scotland 34 Over 49News 56 Suffix with exist 
35 Where the 57 America's first
paragraphs Amazon 50 "Far out" commercial originates 52 "Money-­radio station 
suiting with your accountant. Try not to be overly sensitive if others disagree with your views. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be prepared to deal with a certain amount of resistance. Diplomacy will help you work out a compro­mise. Welcome a chance to go after what you really want. A friendship could gradually tum romantic. 
LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A fer­tile period for your intellectual and artistic gifts. Good public relations will boost your financial fortunes. Role play at horne before going on a job interview. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A pleasant encounter could lead to a request for a contribution. Surprise someone close to you with a careful­ly chosen gift or heartfelt compli­ment. Romance is favored this evening. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Recent developments convince you to revise a plan or policy. Be ready to move in a new direction. Someone at a distance exerts a bene­ficial influence. You finally know exactly what you want in life! 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A surprising twist provides a release from tension. A relationship begins or ends. Make your home your castle by· giving it a facelift. A new color scheme could boost your spirits. Buy a few plants. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): An inquiry or conversation will throw new light on someone's travel or educational plans. Give special consideration to an older person's requests. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Family affairs could keep you on the run today. Review basic security and insurance issues. Be patient with someone who has a negative atti­tude. Your cheerful attitude may be contagious. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Courtyards &--d'etat 10 Part of a 
gateway 14 Middays 15 Facilitate 16 Denver's home: 
Abbr. 17 Disoriented 20 Dancers Fred 
and Adele 21 ---Japanese 
War 22 Actor Sparks 23 --end (very 
last part) 25 Prime-time hour 26 Soviet labor 
camp 30 Party to a defense pact 
,. 

OUP. NEW CORPORATE 8 POLICY I5 THAT ALL ~ ..J EMPLO'YE£5 MUST USE ~ THE P~ODUCT5 WE 5ELL. ~ 
I­I­
0 
u 
"' 
31 Spirited horse 32 Prophet who 
anointed Saul 34Mimic 37 Disoriented 40 Jet to Heathrow 41 Vigorous 42 Actress Spelling 43 Operatic prince 44 Dead, as an 
engine 45 Had been 48 Guinness Book 
suffix 49 One of the 
Gershwins 51 Once more 53 Captain Picard 
series 58 Disoriented 61 State south of 
Ky. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
SCOTT ADAMS 


suits. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Partnerships and close ties count for everything now. You receive much­needed help and encouragement. Giving a teen-ager the benefit of the doubt brings you closer together. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A great day to sign an employment contract or car agreement. You come to a wise investment decision after con­
36 Make a change everything!" 59 Seance sound 
Wanted: Reporters, 
for the verse? 53 Pack &ODined 38Chinaand environs, with 

photographers and editors.
"the" Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:
39 One--time 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 


Join The Observer staff. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
The dorm donating the most money by the end of February will win money for a dance. Be on the lookout for special collections 
_.. 
• in residence halls this month! 
~----~--------------------~----------------------------------------------------­




SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, February 17, 1997 
• MEN's TENNIS 

Irish split pair of matches­against top-ranked teams 
By JIM ZALET A Spans Writer 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team went 1-1 this weekend against two top-ranked opponents. On Saturday, No. 7 Texas Longhorns defeated the 29th ranked Irish 4-3. Sunday, howev­er the Irish upset the No. 8 Duke Blue Devils 4-3. 
On Saturday it seemed as though the Irish were going to have to play catch up as the Longhorns quickly came out and won the doubles point 2-1. Senior Jakub Pietrowski and sophomore Brian Patterson won the only Irish doubles match of the weekend 9-8, against Texas' B.J. Stearns and Mark Loughrin. The pair as well as the other two doubles pairs came from behind to cause the sets to go to tiebreakers. 
But Pietrowski and Patterson were the only ones to win the set. Senior Ryan Simme and junior Danny Rothschild lost 9-7 to sophomores Paul Martin and Nick Crowell. Freshmen Ryan Sachire and Trent Miller were defeated by Eric Allen and Jack Brasington also by a score of 9-7. The doubles point turned out to be the deciding factor as the two teams spilt the singles matches. 
Sachrie, Pietrowski, and Patterson won the three singles matches for the Irish. In No. 1 singles Pietrowski came from from one set down to defeat Stearns, who he faced in the doubles match, 3-6, 6-4,6-4. Sachrie beat Crowell coming from behind to win 7­6,7-6 in No. 2 singles. Patterson, in No. 4 singles, defeated Brasington in two tough sets 7-6, 7-5. Simme, at No. 3, and Miller, No.6, fell in two sets each. Rothschild was shut down in the opening set, battled back to win the second 7-6, and lost the final set 6-1. 
"It was disappointing [to lose to Texas] because we thought we had the chance to beat them," Rothschild said. 
Simme agreed. 
"Some people played well. Some didn't. It was disappointing because we were so close." 
see TENNIS/ page 15 


Junior Danny Rothschild rebounded from a loss to seventh-ranked Texas on Saturday to win at No. 5 singles against Duke on Sunday. The Irish beat the No. 8 Blue Devils 4-3. 
• WOMEN'S BASI<ETBALL • MEN's BASKETBALL 

&. 
Bohman, seniors lead victory in 
Despite leading the Irish with twenty-two points, junior Pat Garrity's efforts were not enough to clinch the victory. 

spite of no bench 
By JOE CAVATO 



Stripped of victory
Sporrs Writer 

By JOE VILLINSKI Losing." couldn't get a grip on it," MacLeod A week ago the Notre Dame women's basketball 
Associate Sporrs Editor "This was a winnable ballgame," added. "We continued to battle but team suffered their worst loss of the year at the head coach John MacLeod said, could not get out in front." 
hands of the Connecticut Huskies. They responded Don't get out tho "Hefuso to Lose" "and we lost." Every time Villanova made a run from that loss with two of their highest scoring signs just yet. Notre Dame could not make any the Irish answered to close within games of the season. 
Notre Dame didn't boat Villanova defensive stands down the stretch four or six on several occasions but 
Behind the play of seniors Katryna Gaither, Beth yesterday. The Irish scratched, as Villanova squeaked out a 75-70 never took the lead. With under a .... Morgan, and Rosanne Bohman the Irish cruised by clawed and threw everything they victory in front of a national televi­minute left, the Irish fouled on the Providence Friars (12-11, 7 -8) with a 97-7 4 tri­had at the No. 18 Wildcats and sion audience. Down by no more each possession in a desperateumph. Gaither, Morgan, and Bohman all scored wore never out of it until the final than eight in the second half, the attempt at a final run. 
over 20 points, helping their squad to improve their buzzer sounded. Irish (12-1 0, 6-8) cut the lead to The strategy almost worked asmark to 22-5 and 14-1 in the Big East. The win The most appropriate sign the one on two occasions, but never got consecutive three-pointers bymarks the sixth time that head coach Muffet 
Irish might have found after the over the hump. defeat was "Refuse to Accept "We played in the game, but we see M.HOOPS I page 16 


see W.HOOPS/ page 15 
at Seton Hall February 18, 7:30p.m. 
vs. Villanova Tonight, 7 p.m. 
--vs. Western Michigan\_ February 21, 7 p.m. 
Men's Tennis vs. Clemson Today, noon
• 
Women's Tennis vs. Indiana 

• Hockey loses to top-ranked Michigan 
February 18, 4 p.m. see page 18 
• Lawrence Phillips in trouble again 
Basketball vs. 
see page 14

Grace College Tonight, 7 p.m. 







