c a

• 
Monday, April14, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 123 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
new era' 
SMC trustees present the CollegeS first female lay president to the community 



The Observer/Rachael Sederberg After a year-long search, the Board of Trustees presented Marilou Eldred to the Saint Mary's College community as the 1Oth president of the College. Eldred will assume the presidency in June. 

One year later, SMC chooses Eldred 

The Observer/Rachael Sederberg 

'Marilou Eldred's goals are articulated in the Saint Mary's College mission 
statement ... she believes pas­sionately in the value of a lib­eral arts education.' 
Mary Lou Garno 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
It ignited the anticipation of Saint Mary's College students. The memo taped to doors in the tunnels, in the residence halls, in the library, in Haggar and in Madeleva Thursday morning was short, simple and to the point. 
Mary Lou Gorno, chair of the Board of Trustees, was the author of the memo. An announcement regarding the new College presi­dent would be made the following day -Friday -at noon in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Saint Mary's community would finally greet their new leader. 
"Marilou Denbo Eldred's goals are articulated in Saint Mary's own mission statement," Gorno said in Friday's letter to the entire Saint Mary's community. "[Eldred) believes passionately in the value of a liberal arts education as the criti­cal foundation for any undergradu­ate major," Gorno continued. 

Friday's introduction of Eldred as Saint Mary's's lOth president was a long-awaited highlight of the year. The search process for a new presi­dent officially began after presiden­tial incumbent William Hickey announced his retirement last April. An official search committee was formed which took on the responsibility of finding qualified candidates for the position. 
The committee reported to the Board of Trustees, and that group alone, on their progress. The search was kept as highly confiden­tial as possible. 
"No one outside of the Board of Trustees has any idea as to what's going on," Beth Ann Miller, student body vicepresident, said Thursday for the announcement. "Although we would all like to [know]," she added, reflecting the feeling of the overall community. 
Student Trustee Brandee Carlson could not be reached for comment. 
see SEARCH I page 4 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
and SARAH CORKREAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Saint Mary's College community was introduced to the future on Friday afternoon, and her name is Marilou Eldred. 
Coined "the best person to lead Saint Mary's into the next century," Eldred spoke for the first time at a special announcement ceremony revealing her hopes and intentions for the College, such as r---lii!P.!II!!II,..i1!9111..._, 
increasing the endowment, 11·'i~::tr·U..:HJII financial aid, diversity, aca-• Students react demic programs and enroll-i;IJ Eldred's .. ment. Eldred, the current vice appointment 
4
president and academic p. dean of the College of St. Catherine, a Catholic women's college in St. Paul, Minn., will be the first lay woman pres­ident of Saint Mary's. 
In her current role, Eldred oversees all academic programs, curricula, faculty, edu­cational policies and a budget of more than $10 million, and was instrumental in estab­lishing a Women's Studies Program at St. Catherine. 
According to Mary Lou Gorno, chair of the Saint Mary's College Board of Trustees, Eldred's accomplishments are a tribute to her long-held goals which are in accord with those in the Saint Mary's mission stateme_nt. 
"Women's colleges are critical because women need to be able to identify them­selves and assume a role in society. Saint Mary's College prepares women well for that role," said Eldred. 
"I have long admired and respected Saint Mary's as a leader for women's colleges in the United States," she added. 
see ELDRED I page 4 
The making of a president 

• 
Education: Bachelor's degree in history with minors in English and education, Mundelein College, Chicago, 1 963; Master's degree in student personnel administra· lion, New York University, 1969; Doctoral degree, educa­tion administration, New York University, 1974 

• 
1963: History teacher, Xavier High School, St. Louis, Mo 1966: Assistant dean of fresh­man, Mundelein College 

• 
1970: Curriculum coordinator, Saint Mary's Center for Learning, Chicago 

• 
1971: Graduate assistant, NYU 

• 
1972: Teaching fellow. NYU 

• 
1974: Personnel representative, Universal Oil Products Co., Des Plaines, Ill. 

• 
1975: Research associate, University Without Walls, University of Minnesota 

• 
1979: Associate academic dean, College of Saint Catherine, St. Paul, Minn. 

• 
1982: Dean of students, College of Saint Catherine 

• 
1986: Vice president, College of Saint Catherine 

• 
1989: Vice president and academic dean, College of Saint Catherine 





"'"'.3 •April 6, 1997: Offered the Saint Mary's -·; ~~ College presidency 
• April 11: Formally presented to theJ:• Saint Mary's community as the first 
t!:..4:;,'• female lay president of the College · ""•• • ,~ • June 1: Officially assumes office 


page 2 
• INSIIJE COLUMN 
So \Vhat if the Cubs are 


0-10? 
Don't pity me because Betsy Baker I'm a Cubs fan. 

Associate Spans Edimr
In fact, don't even 

question it. 
So what if we're 0-10, and we've tied the 

modern National League's record for the 
worst start in its history and by far the worst 
in the club's 122-year history? 
So what that if we lose one more it will tie 

the all-time NL worst record set by the 
Detroit Wolverines in 1884? 
So what if we haven't won a pennant since 

1945 and haven't won the Series since 1908? 
So what if we've let players like four-time 

Cy Young winner Greg Maddux slip through 
our hands and take on such burdens as 
Anthony Young, the major league record­
holder for most consecutive losses? 
So what if the 1984 National League MVP, 

major league record-holder for consecutive 
errorless games. and nine-time Golden Glove 
winner, Ryne Sandberg, is batting a buck­
fifty seven, committed three errors in two 
games a week ago and was knocked out of 
yesterday's game because he was beaned by 
a foul ball while sitting in the dugout? 
So what if we're forced to listen to Harry 

Carey spend 10 minutes talking about a play­
er who isn't even on the game-day roster? 
So what if the frigid temperature at Wrigley 

Field is as low as the number of hits tallied 
by its team? 
So what if the Boys of Wrigley are just 

downright consistently bad? 
There is much more to being a Cubs fan 

than wins and weather. 
To be a Cubs fan is to know the meaning of 

the word adversity. 
To be a Cubs fan means to exemplify the 

word loyalty. 
To be a Cubs fan is to appreciate the first 

sunny, over-50 degree day at Wrigley after a 
long April of lake effect winds. 
To be a Cubs fan is to turn down third row, 

behind home plate tickets for a bench in the 
bleachers and an Old Style (for those of age, 
of course). 
To be a Cubs fan is to exchange domes and 

Astroturf for brick, ivy and the smell of fresh­
cut grass on game day. 
To be a Cubs fan is to embrace the elabo­

rate history of the organization -from the 
shining history of Wrigley Field to the often 
bleak history of the team's that have occu­
pied it. 
To be a Cubs fan means not to focus on the 

players that got away or that bombed, but to 
have such heroes as Ernie Banks and Cap 
Anson (the first man to reach 3,000 hits and 
a Notre Dame alumnus). 
To be a Cubs fan means that even when 

Ryno is off to almost as bad a start as the 
team itself, we can revel in his 1,000th RBI 
hit on Saturday against the Atlanta Braves. 
To be a Cubs fan is to stand up during the 

seventh-inning stretch and sing with one of 
the best baseball announcers in the history of 
the game, enjoying every spray of spit that 
flies from his mouth. 
To be a Cubs fan is to look at whose record 

the Cubbies tied yesterday -the 1988 
Braves-and believe that we can turn 
around and do what the Braves have done 
since then. 
To be a Cubs fan is to be an eternal opti­

mist. 
To be a Cubs fan is to be a baseball fan, 

and to be a baseball fan is to be an American. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Heather Cocks  Andrea Jordan  
Sarah Hiltz  Nate Wills  
Sports  Graphics  
Kathleen Lopez  Melissa Weber  
Erik Kush to  Production  
Viewpoint  Brett Huelat  
Jenny Metzger  Lab Tech  
Shannon Dunne  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Monday, April 14, 1997 
The Observer • INSIDE 
• Wom..oAT A GLANCE 

Bahamas crash kills four Americans 
PITTSTOWN. Bahamas 
A small plane crashed into the Atlantic Ocean off a tiny island in the Bahamas, killing all four Americans on board, including three private pilots. 
Their single-engine Beechcraft 36 slammed into a rocky shoal Saturday about 25 yards off Crooked Island about 250 miles southeast of Nassau. "The plane went into bits and pieces. It was completely destroyed," said Sgt. Glen Rolle, of the Crooked Island Police Department. 

The U.S. State Department identi­fied the dead as Janet Hunter o Orlando, Fla., Frank Pocher o Hopkinton, Mass.. Robert Press of'--Natick, Mass., and Sheldon Hothstcin of Framingham, Mass. 
The three businessman were pilots who had taken 
Gingrich suggests tax amnesty 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich pro­posed Sunday that Americans with overdue taxes be given a one-year amnesty to pay up without penalties. It's an idea could bring in billions of dollars in extra revenue as Congress and the White House struggle to bal­ance the budget, he said. Gingrich, R­Ga., said the proposal, already tried by 


several states, would give people a one-time opportunity to "pay up their back taxes to clear the board, and then we would have stiffer penalties if they didn't take advan­tage of the amnesty." That would increase revenues by several billion dollars and "allow us to have an even deeper tax cut for the honest taxpayers in America," Gingrich said on "Fox News Sunday." In the past week Gingrich has tried to reassert leadership on the tax issue that is central to the Republican agenda, urging elimina­tion of capital gains and estate taxes. Conservatives criti­cized him earlier for suggesting that tax cuts could be put off until after a budget deal is struck with the admin­istration. Other Republicans insisted Sunday that tax cuts be a part of any budget agreement. Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, R-N.M .• said on CNN's "Late Edition" that talks with the White House must come to fruition this week. 
Air Force team searches for plane 
EAGLE, Colo. 
The Air Force on Sunday launched its first ground search for a missing pilot and his warplane, scouring three mountainous areas identified as possible crash sites by U-2 radar photos and a hiker with a metal detec­tor. The five-member ground crew, equipped with metal detectors and mountaineering gear, was exploring three areas of the New York Mountain range after an expert determined avalanche danger was low in the rugged wilderness about 20 miles southwest of Vail. ''I'm no more excited. I'm no more optimistic and no less opti­mistic," Lt. Gen. Frank Campbell said of the develop­ment in the search for Capt. Craig Button, who disap­peared in his bomb-laden A-10 Thunderbolt April 2. Two of the areas being searched were targeted by U-2 radar photos as possible crash locations. A backcountry hiker with a metal detector got a reading in the third area, Campbell said. "It could be something else up there that is metal, but we'll see," Campbell said. "If they (ground crews) find metal, they will try to put their hands on that metal or get down where they can see that metal." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\!
~...... __..,./ ,,~ 
I 
Monday i)-Thesday ~ Wedne$day ~, Thurs~ay @, 
/

Frid3y .~,", / 
~_y........~.,.~.-·').........../-.....·~,:') ......· 


VIa Associated Press 
Atlanta 61 Baltimore 58 Boston 52
q,~,~GQ.Q ~ ~ u 

Chicago 51
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o·;;_, Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Columbus 51
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
turns flying the craft to an air show in Lakeland, Fla.. family members said. After the show ended last week, they went to the Bahamas for a few days. 
Arnold Josey, assistant superinten­dent of police for the Royal Bahamas Police Force, said the cause of the crash was unknown, although it was cloudy and winds were "choppy" when the plane went down. 
Pocher's daughter, Lauric Rufo, said she was told the plane had engine problems and was circling back to land when it crashed. 
She said Ms. Hunter had been at the same Pittstown hotel, and was catching a lift to Nassau when the plane crashed. 

"My father was happiest when he was flying," she 
said. "It's the one consolation we have is that he went 
doing something he loved." 
California strawberry pickers unite 
WATSONVILLE, Calif. 

Thousands of United Farm Workers union members and supporters from around the nation marched on Sunday to demand better pay and working conditions for California's 20,000 strawberry pickers. The event kicked off the sec­ond year of the union's ambitious attempt to organize the state's strawberry industry, which produces 80 percent of the nation's crop. With marchers carrying signs and !lags with the red, white and black union emblem, union presi­dent Arturo Rodriguez said some longtime strawberry workers weren't being hired back this season because they demanded clean bathrooms, drinking water, pay increases and health insurance. "Decent people of good conscience cannot tolerate these injustices. The times demand action. We must all become angry and hungry for justice," he said. "Unless you take a stand. unless you become involved, these conditions will live on and on for strawberry workers. While the union claimed 30,000 marchers and said it was the biggest march for farm workers, police said up to 17,000 people marched. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, UFW co-founder Dolores Huerta and AFL-CIO president John Sweeney joined Hodriguez near the head of the 2 1/2-mile march just before noon. Workers spoke of being shortchanged and treated badly by employers. Jose Rojas said he has not had a raise in seven years and that growers "steal" employees' pay by forcing them to work ofT the clock. 
Famous biologist dies at 90 
CAMBHIDGE. Mass. 

George Wald, who won the Nobel Prize in 1967 for his work on the biochemistry of vision, has died. He was 90. Wald died Saturday at his home after two years of declining health. Born in Manhattan's Lower East Side to Jewish immigrants, Wald studied zoology at Washington Square College of New York University and did graduate work at Columbia University. As a National Hesearch Council fellow in Germany in 1932, he helped discover vitamin A in the retina and discovered retinal, a component of the visual cycle. These discoveries laid the founda­tion for his later scientific work on how people see. Hitler's rise to power forced him to leave Germany for the University of Chicago, where he completed his fellowship. He joined the faculty at Harvard University in 1934, teaching biology and doing research for 43 years. His 1967 Nobel Prize in Medicine or Physiology was for his work on the chemical reactions that light sets off in the recep­tors of the eye. These, in turn, trigger nervous impulses along the optic nerve to the brain. 
38  Dallas  66  35  
37  Denver  57  26  
40  Detroit  52  27  
22  Miami  85  69  
25  Minneapolis  51  27  

New Orleans 63  48  
New York  56  41  
Philadelphia 60  40  
Phoenix  82  52  
St. Louis  58  30  



The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, April 14. FRONTS: "T""'T" ......_._ ...-AT­COLD WARM STATIONARY «0 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.  
Pressur~ .H L B rssl [Til 0 ~ 8 <QtJ.uHIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  

Monday, April 14, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Jordan: UFOs, aliens exist in a parallel universe 
By TOM MORAN 
News Writer 
Do UFOs really exist? 
Taking into account UFO sightings, abduction stories, tales of the mysteri­.ous 'men in black', crop circles and cattle mutilations, expert Peter Jordan tackled that question last night. 
Jordan, who has been examining these phenomena for 20 years, admit­ted early on that the vast majority of UFO sightings are either misunder­standings or hoaxes. 
He noted that Project Blue Book, the official government investigation of UFOs. determined that 98 percent of UFOs sighted are actually aircraft or weather and astronomical phenomena. 
Jordan also pointed out the number or UFO hoaxes that have been perpe­trated in the past. "Many people simply took hubcaps. stuck cotton balls to the bottom. threw them in the air and took pictures," he stated. He said that, with modern technology, "it is very easy to create images that fool experts." 
He cited specific examples and evi­dence of alien appearances, abductions and activities. l-Ie started with a look at "the mother lode -or the mother ship -of all UFO events:" the infamous Roswell incident, in which the govern­ment disavowed the existence of a sup­posed UFO that crashed in New Mexico in 1947. The government claimed that it was a downed weather balloon, Jordan said, but this failed to explain their call to a local mortician to order a number or "three-or four-foot long hermetically sealed caskets." 
Jordan expressed his belief that the government has had something to do with the suppression of UFO evidence. He noted that one can tell how legiti­mate UFO photos are by "how badly federal agents want to get their grubby hands on your negatives." 
Jordan was ambivalent about how true stories of the "Men in Black" are. According to him, these dark-suited, Cadillac-driving men, who have a habit of visiting recent UFO sighters and telling them to keep their stories to themselves, "are part of the mythology and folklore of UFOs and have some basis in truth." 
Jordan detailed some of the most famous and convincing incidents of alien encounters and abductions. In the 1950's, a couple were abducted in an incident in which they could not remember the two lost hours they had spent in a supposed spacecraft, but were able to recount very convincing stories of their ordeal when placed under hypnosis. These stories included details of alien star charts, which were later successfully matched up to real stars in a way that allowed investiga­tors to pinpoint the location of the alien "home planet." 
Another possibility Jordan raised was that UFOs were respon!')ible for the gigantic power outage that struck the northeast United States in 1978. Before the outage, according to him, there were a number of similar sightings of spaceships siphoning power out of power lines, especially near Troy. NY. One man, he stated, even believes that he was abducted by aliens who explained that their power needs require that they sometimes siphon electrical power. 
Jordan next discussed the peculiar phenomena of crop circles and cattle mutilations. The former, mysterious flattenings of crops in circular patterns, were treated by Jordan as generally acceptable evidence of paranormal activity. While he admitted that a large number of the circles are likely a hoax, some of them show evidence of the crops actually being exploded by microwave radiation, rather than just flattened. He concluded that the evi­dence suggests that the creation of some of these circles was "intelligently guided ... whether it is alien or not, I'm not sure...but it is provocative." 

The cattle mutilations, Jordan explained, were a number of "surgeon­like cuts being made" on cattle by heli­copter-like UFOs. A number of eyewit­ness sightings, he noted, lend credence to these claims, and he pointed out that there was no rational explanation for these mutilations. They were too pre­cise to be predators, Jordan explained 
"Why would the military or the gov­ernment need to do this?" he asked, later stating that "the matter sits in the field of ambiguities." 
Jordan concluded the lecture by affirming that he does believe aliens visit Earth, although he still pointed out several reasons supporting the opposite conclusion. 
The generally human characteristics ascribed to extraterrestrials are sug­gestive of the idea that they are only figments of people's imaginations, he said. Jordan also noted that these 'aliens,' supposedly possessors of far more powerful technology than ours, seem to have a habit of subjecting peo­ple to primitive medical procedures, an idea that seems rather puzzling. 
Finally, the most obvious reason to reject the idea of alien visitors, he stat­ed, is the simple fact that we have no hard evidence of them: no spaceship remains, no alien materials, objects or bodies. 
Despite all of the objections he raised, however, Jordan said that he still believes that visitors to our planet do exist. "The evidence is overwhelm­ing," he said. 
In a statement that much of the audi­ence apparently found hard to swallow, Jordan conveyed his belief that these visitors were not from other planets, 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
UFO expert Peter Jordan spoke of his the­ory that aliens come from other dimen­sions, not from other planets. 
but from other dimensions, such as wormholes or parallel universes. The aforementioned reasons for not believ­ing in aliens, he said, led him to con­clude that this is a more likely explana­tion for people's encounters and abduc­tion stories. 
Jordan clearly expressed that his 20 years of researching UFOs has con­vinced him of their existence. He con­fessed, however, that there are still many questions concerning UFOs and other such phenomena. Thus, he asserted that he would likely continue investigating these phenomena "until I die -[or] until I figure out what the hell is going on." 





Call 1-6902 
r ------... -----....
r r---------.-. 
$4 
$5 $10.99: 
Deal Deal Deal :14" Large 14"~e 1Cheese Call 
Call Call
~ingle lopping

1-6902 
1-6902

1 I p·IZZa For Dellvery 1-6902 
For Delivery For Delivery 
Coupon Expires 4/18/97 Coupon Expires 4/18197 Coupon Expires 4/18/97
L

L----------L 

--~------~ --~­

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 14, 1997 
• SMC Pm:smENTIAl APPOINTMENT 
Eldred impresses SMC students with speech 
By MELANIE GARMAN with Eldred's enthusiasm and Saint Mary's Associate News Editor approachability. "I was very impressed with 
Bustling with anticipation, the Eldred's first speech to the stu­students of Saint Mary's College dent body," said freshman packed into the O'Laughlin Penelope Kitska. "She seemed Audiorium Friday afternoon to very professional, yet down to hear the announcement of the earth; a leader I feel I could go College's lOth president. to with a concern." 
As Mary Lou Garno, chair of Even though members of this the Board of Trustees, intra-year's graduating class will not duced Marilou Denbo Eldred to get a chance to sec Eldred in 
t~7:~J:~~,~~"~7i; ~~::~~~~~ ~:~!~:~~:: ,f~:: 
and staff rose to *'· ~ ·····.···•········.. .. f ·• . . ··ut students as well. 
their feet to greet With Eldreds first "I am confident her. Not only did speech to the stu~ in her past exper_i­she receive a .. ences that she IS standing ovation, dent body. She the right person but she also seemed like ... a for the job," senior received numerous l d I ld H e a t h e r words of encour-ea er COU go Steinmiller stated. agement from the to with a concern.' "If I could student body. address one issue "I am very excit-to Eldred, I would ed about the Penelope Kitska tell her how bene­appointment of our ficial it would be to new president," said junior incorporate a women's issues Amanda Howerton. class for all freshmen," 
"I feel she has a credible Steinmiller added. background. having been a part Many issues will be addressed of the College of St. Catherine by Eldred throughout her presi­for 18 years, and I am sure her dency, including the challenge experience will carry on here at of fundraising, diversity issues Saint Mary's," she added. and maintaining the strong aca-
Eldred is the first lay woman demic program Saint Mary's is to assume the Saint Mary's known for. presidency. Students agree with "I believe that Eldred has a the idea of Saint Mary's big job ahead of her. However, appointing a female president with the strong interest she has and are eager for her to assume in the student body, she will her duties beginning June 1, have no trouble being accepted 1997. into the Saint Mary's communi-
Students are also pleased ty," Kitska said. 

Search 
continued from page 1 
Patti Valentine received the phone call last Sunday night. As director of public relations for Saint Mary's College, she was one of the few people who knew before Thursday morning that a new president had been selected. 
The students, faculty and staff of the college were kept in the dark throughout the entire search process, mainly to ensure confidential­ity on the candidates' behalf. However, the Board wished for the local Saint Mary's community to be made aware of the develop­ments before the press and the outside world were informed. 
"Our goals were to make certain that the Saint Mary's community would hear prior to the media. The Board of Trustees asked us to do that." Valentine said. 
All Saint Mary's community members received letters from Gorno detailing Eldred's background and the reasons for her selection. 
Class of 2000 

Applications for Committee Head positions can now be picked up 1n the Student Government 
Office.  Applications  are  due  
back  no  later than  5:00  pm  
Wednesday,  April  16  in  the  
Freshman  Class Council  Box  
which  is  also  located  in  the  
Student Governmant Office.  


~---------------------------------------------·--------------------~ 
Mother-daugher bonding 
Eldred 
continued from page 1 

Eldred stressed the fact that she is a lay leader, something that she believes women need to see more of in today's society. 
She also stated her eagerness to meet with present students and alumnae. She plans on implementing informal receptions with groups of students and hosting alumnae reunions to acquaint students with networking opportuni­ties available within the Saint Mary's commu­nity. 
"I would love for students to initate conver­sation," said Eldred. ''I'm here to provide stu­dents a mentor, to lead them to a degree." 
She expressed concern with the decline in the number of women attending all-female institutions. 
According to Eldred, only 2-3 percent of graduating high school women consider attending women's colleges. 
"Because women's colleges are only able to recruit half of the population. they will always struggle academically," said Eldred. 
One way to increase enrollment at Saint Mary's would be to recruit by word of mouth through alumnae, noted Eldred. Contacting alumnae throughout the country would not only strengthen the alumnae network, but also enhance Saint Mary's reputation nation­ally. 
"I am eager to meet with almunae, and I want to hold a few public ceremonial [events] to be able to talk to students candidly and openly," said Eldred. 
"I believe personally that a liberal arts edu­cation forms the nature of a well-rounded education," she continued. 
"It is a unique relationship to have a reli­gious order sponsor an academic institu­tion ...! hope to build on all of the wonderful things that happen here and build on the women's college aspect," Eldred added. 
"I am really excited to be here," she empha­sized. 



Women's Resource Center: SNEAK PREVIEW!! Women's Resource Center Speak Out. Art displayed Mon.-Wed., 1st floor in cases of O'Shag. Come join us on 4/16, Lafun. Ballroom at 8pm & celebrate women in the arts. Tell us what you think about treatment of WOMEN AT ND!• Come support the Annual Film Fest Thurs., 4/17, Fri. 4/18, & Sat. 4/19 in the Montgomery Theater of Lafun. Film times will be 7pm and 9pm. Check Observer Ads for scheduled movies. African Students' Assoc.:LECTURE: AFRICAN IDENTITY (AFTER CABRAL) by Prof. FRED DALLMAYR, Gov. Dept., Date: Monday 4/14; Time: 7pm; Venue: Hesburg Center Auditorium.AFRICAN FEATURE FILM FROM MALI: 11 GUIMBA THE TYRANT" Followed by a PANEL DISCUSSION ON: "WISDOM & POLITICAL POWER" Date: Wed. 4/16; Time: 7pm; Venue: 155 DeBartolo. KINASSA-KIMASSA, INTERNATIONAL MUSIC/DANCE PARTY. Date: Fri. 4/18, Venue: Alumni Senior Club; Times: 6:30­
8:30 kids time, 8:30pm-1:00am other. NoN-ALCOHOLIC Recyclin' Irish: The following dorms are scheduled for the Adopt-A-Day Program this week: Mon.-Cavanaugh, Tues.­Dillon, Wed.-Farley, Thurs. -Fisher. Contact your dorm's envi­ronmental commissioner or call Cristen@ x4408 or Helga @ x3486 for info. and to get involved. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
SUBWAY Catering Service 

You've 
Earned It! 
·Giant 6 Foot Party Subs ·Party Platters ·Party Trays 
PHONE 289-1288
·'
~' ·~ ;:'=. •-: :-=­
• • ' r•: 
.. -. ; 
. . " ...,
..suB . . .. .­
~ 

Monday, April 14, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 


Adler School of .!2_ofessional Psychology 
FORT WAYNE ­
Franklin S. Hennessey, Psy.D, 
1720 Beacon street F (219) 424-6443 • a~erpa2y@W,ayne, IN 46805-4749 •ortwayne.mfi.net 

At the Adler School of Professional Psychology, all of our faculty members are active clinical professionals. So you'll benefit from their practical knowledge. And you'll get to enjoy an academic climate geared toward working professionals: 
• 
Masters and Postgraduate programs, may lead to doctorate 

• 
Most classes on Friday evenings, Saturdays and Sundays 

• 
Small classes 

• 
Variety of programs in Counseling Psychology, Marriage & Family Counseling, Substance Abuse Counselmg, Adlerian Psychology 


So whether you already hold a degree or you're an undergraduate, call or e-mail us. We've been helping working professionals reach an advanced 
Adler School of 

degree in psychology 
Professional Ps

for 25 years. 
FORT WAYNE 
1720 Beacon Street • Fort Wayne, IN 46805-4749 
(219) 424-6443 • adlerpsy@fortwayne.infi.net 

The Adler Xhnnl of Professional psy~.:~nl~l.SY is :!(credited hy the North Cenrral Association. CEUs approved hy rhl' National Board tor Cert1t1ed Counselors. Inc. 
"What's Up?" Paul 
'Wake up,' Alumni ... 
Happiness 
lS 
21! 
Love 
Mom, Dad, Rob 

Wayward cart driver disrupts annual Wake procession 
The Observer/John Daily 
Alumni residents (pictured above) had their enthusiasm momentarily dampened when a fellow student steered a golf cart through their 

Wake procession (shown left). 

umni Hall held its annu­
e this weekend, begin­
th a half-naked proces­
und campus and cui­
in an SYR. 
march across North Quad was disrupted by a Zahm Hall resident, who decided to drive a golf cart through the mob of marching men. 
"I got hit when we were out­side Zahm, and I just went fly­ing," said Wake participant Jeremy Dixon. "I got cuts and bruises, but no one was seri­ously hurt." 

RAs from Alumni assisted in stopping the cart; several wit­nesses recalled seeing the dri­ver getting hit by enraged stu­dents, but Dixon was unable to confirm this. 
"I didn't see any punches," he said, "but people were pretty mad. I mean, he plowed through the procession for no apparent reason." 
The Alumni RAs were unwilling to comment on the situation; one source hinted that the occurrence would be pursued by the Office of Student Affairs. 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
R£AT\YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland in 
Ro&in 
Hooa1 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE For information, 
call219/284-4626 

crim.e rate declines 

.. . WASHINGTON 
Americans experienced 
significantly fewer violent 
crimes in 1995 than in 1994, 
with rates for such acts as 
rape, robbery an<{ assault 
down by 12.4 percent, the 
Justice Department said 
Sunday. 
The broadest decline hap· 
pened in the suburbs, where 
crime rates <lropped in all 
areas of personal victimiza· 
tion except rape and sexual 
assault. 
Jhe Bureau of Justice · Statlstips said the fall was. the largest recorded since Jhe bureau began taking its 
.~nnual ,,N,ational Crime 
V'i~timi.zation Survey in 
1973. . 
"Four years ago, we made .~ ~.~mmitment to take our ~v.f€iets baek from. crime and violence. We had a compre­hensive. plan," President 
ton i);I'!Jd. "Our plan is 
king;t~::··· 
••· He.saidJna written state~ ment thaJ the statistics, Wh ··•· h. C()Y~red ·the first full 
·.· r of bls crime act of ... 94, reflect the largest drop in viplent crime in 22 
ar~. H~ p\'"edite~ the act. 
.. torney General Janet 
Reno said the figures contin­
ued a downward trend in 
· ¢nt c · that.nas been 
.. ··. cted . very year of the 
Clinton administration. 
epu ns said crime 
ain much too 
And s01ne experts said the administration is reaping ~~~.benefit ofa baby boomer generation mellowed with 
age~ 
Among white residents age 1Z< and Q.ld!lr. the survey showed overall violent crime 4~¢lined 12.8 percent. vat assault among typed 44,7 per~

e decline was less dra­matic for black Americans, 
:A#hin#.: 
rEACH EllllLISH IR . '' 1 
EA..,TER.V El'ROPE 
""-GUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
HoW woutd you like to teach basic' Conv•rsational Enslish in Eastern :Eur~? Our ~atertals prof~l~ m~v 
rewarding. teachmt; opporyumttes wtth great beneftts. For mformahon, caJI: 
(206) 971-3680 Ext. 1<55845 
We are 1 ,-.earc:h6 publllh"" c.. 
STRONG • FAST • CLEAN 

WOLFF,._....BEDS ) 
5804 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 
·some state a federal1~gulat10ns may ap~1 1 . " copyri~ht 1996 ChteaQl• Halrcuttmg Co 


page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April I4, I997 
Orkin: Science not ready for any human cloning 
By JENNIFER ROTHACKER 

Associated Press Writer 
ARLINGTON, Va. 

Studying animal clones is keeping researchers busy now, but scientists warned an ethics panel Sunday that a permanent ban on research into human cloning could stall medical progress. 
For now, animal cloning gives "the biggest bang for the buck," said Stuart Orkin, a developmental biologist at Harvard University's medical school. Scientists may fall behind. however, if human cloning isn't at least examined, Orkin told the National Bioethics Advisory Commission. 
President Clinton formed the 18-member commission to study implications of human cloning after a Scottish scientist unveiled Dolly the sheep in February, the first-known suc­cessful clone of an adult mam­mal. 
As the panel mulls over the ethical. scientific and policy ramifications of human cloning, Clinton has banned using feder­al money on such experimenta­tion and suggested a moratori­um on private studies. 
Both Orkin and Janet Rossant, a professor of molecu­lar and medical genetics at the University of Toronto, appeared to pique the committee's inter­est when they agreed that human cloning may be prema­ture while so much is left to study in animals. 
"Is it possible that we can do most of the basic science on animals ... without ever creat­ing an entity which many peo­ple find offensive?" asked com­mission member Thomas Murray, director of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. 
Orkin did not advocate wide­spread cloning of animals. Plenty of research is left to do that would not necessitate fur­ther cloning of any kind, he said. But researching human cloning could lead to major advancements in such fields as organ transplants. 
''I'm not comfortable with the notion of banning any kind of research," Or kin said. "However, I am comfortable with moratoria on the implan­tation" of cloned human embryos because of the "inher­ent risks that I think are unac­ceptable." 
Rossant said because not all animal research is directly applicable to humans, the board should "avoid prohibiting legitimate research into ani­mals or humans (because) it really has big potential for ben­efits in the future." 

Lee: Hong Kong deserves its freedom 
Democratic leader calls for US. help in retaining liberty 
By GENE KRAMER Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The United States and all other countries that have sup­ported Hong Kong's coming transfer to Chinese rule have "at least a moral obligation" to help the British colony's 6.5 people million people remain free, Hong Kong democracy leader Martin Lee said Sunday. 
That will be his message at a White Ilouse meeting expected this week, Lee said in an inter­view. 

Both the White House and Lee said an exact time has not yet been set for his White House visit. He is president of Ilong Kong's Democratic Party and landslide winner in the 1995 election of the Hong Kong legis­lature facing replacement by Beijing appointees after the July 1 takeover. 

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS &SENIORS! 


Ifyou have not picked up your yearbooks from 
1994, 1995, or 1996, extra copies are 
available. Just come 
by the DOME 
office ( 311 
LaFortune) today 
between 3:00 pm & 
6:00pm. They are 
FREE, so do not 
miss this 
opportunity! 
Dogbooks are also available for $5. 





Speaking on condition of anonymity, a White House offi­cial said Sunday that Vice President AI Gore would receive Lee, and President Clinton would join their meeting. They are expected to discuss Hong Kong's future and "the effort to ensure a peaceful transition of power," the official said. 
Lee, reached by telephone at the home of friends in the Washington suburbs, recalled that the United States has con­sistently supported the 1984 British-Chinese Joint Declaration. 
It restores Chinese sovereignty to Hong Kong July 1 while guar­anteeing the prosperous metropolis self-rule in all mat­ters except foreign affairs and defense for at least 50 years under a "one country, two sys­tems" plan. 
Recent actions by China show it is time for the U.S. govern­ment to press the British and Chinese governments to take measures "to strengthen the confidence in Hong Kong of its people and of overseas investors," he said. 
Beijing's plan to replace the colony's elected Legislative Council with an appointed body "is contrary to the promises of the Joint Declaration," said Lee. 


Spending your summer in the windy city? 
•
DEPAULUNIVERSITY'S 

Summer Accounting Sequence 
Fast-Track Year-in-a-Summer course I Fast Track Registration 
Principles of Accounting I & II and Introduction to Cost Accounting -all the accounting many business majors will ever need ­over 10 weeks in the evenings at DePaul University's state-of-the-art downtown Chicago campus. 
For more information: 

call:  312-362-8770  
fax:  312-362-6208  
e-mail:  accountancy@wppost. de paul. edu  
or visit:  http://www.depaul.edu/accountancy/  

Next fall take back a tan, a few bucks ... ... and 12 hours of accounting from DePaul 



The bank of Nova Scotia, Chicago, a "Fortune 750 Corporate lender", will recruit on campus April 17, 1997, for an entry level position requiring a BS/Business/Finance degree with strong financial, accounting and computer skills. 
The Candidate will plan to return to graduate school within 2 years. 
To arrange an interview contact Ray Kelly 800-966-6682. 
Fax resume (312)201-41 08 
Monday, April 14, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Farrakhan: Clinton policy will hurt peace prospects 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton is hurting the prospects for peace in the Middle East with a policy that too willingly "bows to the dic­
tates of Netanyahu," Nation of Islam leader L o u i s Farrakhan said Sunday. 
Appearing on NBC's 


"Meet The Farrakhan Press," Farrakhan said Clinton should have been able to dissuade Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel's prime minister, from building homes for Jewish settlers in east Jerusalem. The Palestinians want to establish the capital of a Palestinian state in that sector. which Israel took from Jordan in the 1967 Six-Day War. 
"The world says he shouldn't do this." the Muslim minister said. "America has influence in Israel but is not using that influence in a con­structive way." 
Clinton's policy puts the United States in a position that "pays lip service to the Palestinians while she bows to the dictates of Netanyahu and the strong political Jewish lobby," Farrakhan said. 
The White House would not comment specifically about Farrakhan's remarks but defended the president's strat­egy in the troubled region as successful. 
"The administration's Middle East policy has helped bring about important changes in the region," White House spokesman Barry Toiv said. "We have worked closely with all parties in the region, and we will continue to do so." 
Farrakhan. leader of the Chicago-based Nation of Islam for more than 20 years, has won plaudits for his sect's work to rehabilitate black con­victs and drug addicts but has been severely criticized for denunciations of Jews, Catholics, whites and others. 
He also has been investigat­ed by U.S. agencies for trips through the Middle East and North Africa during which he appeared with and praised leaders of countries on the State Department's list of ter­rorism exporters such as Libya, Sudan, Iraq and Iran. 
Farrakhan characterized the breakdown of peace efforts in the Middle East as "a very grave problem" that could have been avoided if Netanyahu had allowed the status of East Jerusalem to be decided in peace negotiations. 
He said Clinton has a responsibility. in dealing with the Israeli prime minister. to exercise "the strength of a man whose country con­tributes at least $4 billion every year to the state of Israel." 
"I do not think that 
President Clinton is handling 
his role in the most responsi­
ble manner," Farrakhan said. 
In Sunday's wide-ranging interview, Farrakhan denied harboring anti-Semitic views, as he has repeatedly in recent years, but stopped short of repudiating his criticism of Jews. He offered to apologize if "I can be shown to be in error." 

Plains flooding continues 
By SHARON COHEN 
Associated Press Writer 
HENDRUM, Minn. 
Sam Larson leans on a shov­el stuck in a snowbank, watch­ing National Guardsmen sand­bag around her yard. Normally she can't see the Wild Rice River from here. Now it's snaking toward her doorstep. 
Mrs. Larson, at 65 a veteran of many floods, isn't letting this one chase her off. 
"I don't sweat the small stuff," she said Sunday. "As long as it's not life-threaten­ing, I'll stay.... I'm not a wor­rier. I have a lot of faith." 
Hendrum,· a town of 309 people, sits at the confluence of the Wild Rice and Red rivers along the North Dakota­Minnesota border. A winter of record snow and an early spring blizzard have helped push the water to near-record levels. 
Mrs. Larson, who works as a clerk at a convenience store, said she'll stay put as long as she needs nothing more than her black knee-high boots to get through the water. 
So far, the boots have been enough. But the Wild Rice River has grown frightfully close to the widow's little aqua-green home. 
"It's never gotten this bad," said Mrs. Larson's daughter, Terry Halverson. 
Just 150 yards from the house, the water usually is just 5 feet deep. Now it's more than 30 feet deep. 
Many residents of Hendrum, about 30 miles north of Fargo, N.D., already have left because of the flooding. About 40 per­cent evacuated voluntarily to wait out the rising water else­where. 
"You'll notice around town 
you don't see a lot of children 
>!:::;:..: 

Flooding in the northern plains 
President Clinton this week declared North Dakota, South Dakota and 21 counties in Minnesota disaster areas. 

or elderly people," said Rick Spieler, Hendrum's mainte­nance supervisor. 
Some decided to stay and put up a fight. 
"We've got to save what we worked for all our lives. This is where we live," said Spieler, looking out over the mobile home park where he lives. 
Donovan Kolness, Hendrum's mayor for just six months, has been helping organize sandbagging crews and volunteers to watch the city's dike. 
"I think we're going to fight this thing and beat it back," he said Sunday, taking a break at the City Hall. 
Leland Nepstad fears he may have lost his 600-acre sugar beet and grain farm just across the Red River in North Dakota. The bridge to get there was closed before he and volunteers could sandbag around farm buildings. His attention has turned to saving his home in Hendrum. 
"Now that we lost our farm, we're sandbagging 15 to 16 hours a day trying to protect our home," he said. 
Some, like Mrs. Larson, are already looking to the future: "Sooner or later," she said, "it will all be cleaned up. Everything will be green and we won't even remember it." 

Campus View Apartments  
We are now taking applications for NEXT YEAR!!  -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air -24 hour laundry  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball·courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartments Available for your selection For more information, call272-1441 Summer leases Available  



based on the novel by

Friday, April 18 
7:30p.m. John Steinbeck 
adapted by 

Saturday, April 19 
7:30p.m. Frank Galati 
Sunday, April 20 directed by 2:30p.m. Reginald Bain 
Playing at Washington Hall 

Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 14, 1997 

Experts: The tomato may prevent cancer 
By DANIEL HANEY 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN DIEGO 

For years, cancer experts have been telling folks to eat fruits and vegetables. Now they are trying to answer the next obvious question: "Which ones?" 
They are still far from having a firm answer. But studies pre­sented at a cancer conference this week suggest tomatoes are looking good. So are oranges and several other kinds of food, including tofu and spaghetti. 
Teasing out specifics about the health effects of different kinds of foods is difficult, in part because it may take many years for a particular nutrient to have even a small effect on health. 
However, scientists are try­ing. And tomatoes appear to be the food of the moment. 
Last year, Harvard researchers reported that men who get at least 10 servings a week of tomato-based foods are up to 45 percent less likely than usual to develop prostate cancer. 
No one knows why, but it could be because tomatoes are the primary source in the diet of a nutrient called lycopene. Now a team from Columbia University has preliminary evi­dence that this may be espe­cially important for smokers. 
Dr. Jean Ford and others looked at levels of various vita­mins and other nutrients in the blood of 204 people, half of whom had lung cancer. They found concentrations of lycopene were was significantly lower in the lung cancer vic­tims. 
After taking smoking into 
account, they found that those with low levels of lycopene have triple the cancer risk of those with high levels. The association was especially strong in people currently smoking. The lower their lycopene levels, the higher their cancer risk. 
Ford cautioned that low lycopene levels might be a result, rather than a cause, of lung canc-er. Nevertheless, the findings raise the possibility ­still to be proven -that this nutrient might somehow help protect smokers from the can­cerous effects of cigarettes. 
"This is a preliminary report, but it raises questions about whether there are dietary risk factors that we need to take a closer look at for lung cancer," Ford said. 
Among other reports on the effects of food released Sunday at the American Association for Cancer Research meeting: 
• 
Animal studies suggest that orange juice protects lab ani­mals from cancer. In an effort to find out why this might be, Dr. Najla Guthrie and others from the University of Western Ontario evaluated limonoids, the bitter stuff in limes, lemons, grapefruit and oranges. They found that a particular limonoid called nomilin was an especially powerful inhibitor of cancer in the test tube. 

• 
Dr. Rashmi Sinha of the National Cancer Institute looked for links between meat consumption and lung cancer in 1,216 women in Missouri. Women who ate a lot of red meat were twice as likely as those who had it sparingly to get lung cancer, but fish and chicken had no apparent effect on risk. 


• BOSI\l!A~HERZEGOVINA 

Pope preaches peace in Sarajevo 
Explosives, icy 
weather fail to 
postpone speech 
By MARK PORUBCANSKY 
Associated Press Writer 
SARAJEVO 
Shivering in snowy, freezing weather with tight security pro­tecting him from the hatreds that still poison Bosnia, Pope John Paul II preached forgive­ness Sunday to Catholics, Muslims and Orthodox alike. 
Tanks, sharpshooters and thousands of policfl were deployed to protect the 76­year-old pontiff, whose long­delayed visit to a city with a special spot in his heart was marred by the discovery Saturday of explosives along his route. 
Organizers installed a heater and used a large, white umbrel­la to shield him from driving snow flurries during Mass at a soccer stadium near the former front line. 
The pope was visibly shiver­ing from winds that made tem­peratures around 30 degrees feel much colder. At the end of the 2 1/2-hour service an aide helped him from the altar. 
John Paul left Sarajevo in the evening aboard his special Alitalia jet after a farewell cere­mony ending his 25-hour visit. 
The pope's message of peace drew wide praise from the peo­ple who suffered most in war, as well as the politicians who fomented it. However, Bosnia's dilemma remained: whether to find peace in unity or separa­tion. 
For the pope, there was no question that peace and unity 

CLASS Of '98 Be apart oyour Class CouncH. 

AppHcations due by the 18th. 
Available outside 213 Lafortune. 

Pope in Sarajevo 
--#---------­
Police found at least 23 mines, detonators and plastic explosives along the pope was to travel 
go hand-in-hand. 
"For the edifice of peace to be solid, against the background of so much blood and hatred, it will have to be built on the courage of forgiveness," he said. "People must know how to ask forgiveness and to forgive." 
If Bosnians can establish peace, he told the Muslim, Serb and Croat members of a joint presidency, their land "can become at the end of this centu­ry an example of coexistence in diversity for many nations experiencing the same dif!icul­ty, in Europe and elsewhere in the world." 
John Paul said Sarajevo is a symbol of the horrors of the 20th century including the start of World War I, the bitter fight­ing of World War II and the conflict marking the end of the century. 
lie called for respect for 
AP/Carl Fox 
human rights, efforts to ensure all Bosnians have work and the return of legions of refugees to their homes. 
About 70 percent of the work­force is unemployed in Muslim­Croat territory; and probably more on the Serb side. The future of the refugees is one of the biggest political issues fac­ing Bosnia. 
Muslims and Croats are often at odds, but their men on the presidency promised to work for unity. 
Bosnia's chief Muslim cleric, Mustafa Ceric, met the pope Sunday afternoon and said afterward he would use the opportunity of the pope's visit to seek "substantial dialogue" between Muslims and Catholics. 
Serbs and many Croats are intent on breaking away from Bosnia rather than continuing in a diverse multiethnic land. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale 
& 
Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 

HAYDN/ HANDEL 
Excerpts from 
Concerto Grosso The Creation in D Minor, Op. 6, No. 10 
8:00 p.m. Wednesday, April 16 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public. 

dihzdt£fip£ctr£-in­."J£rformanr£ 
English 440 for the fall semester. 
*Open to all majors* 
Call 631-5069 or 232-001 7 or use the sign-up sheet at 205 Decio. 
Auditions required.for Admission 

VIEWPOINT 

Monday, April 14, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 

Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Spons Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... ................. Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .........................Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect rhe policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirurion. The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, A.ssistam Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Spores Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Phoro Ediror, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Edicor/Viewpoint 631-454! Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 63!-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 63!-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l @nd.edu General I nformarion 631-747! Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


E-mail and the lost art of good conversation 
Every morning, at precisely 10 a.m., my friend Ray rouses himself from deep sleep and makes his way to a pristinely kept personal computer. 
Bong Miquiabas 

After some soft clicks, he taps out a simple password: C-U-B-S. ''I'm a die-hard fan," he explains. "I won't forget my password this way." 
Nor would he want to forget. It is a password that connects him with a world he has never seen but knows exists, and it is a world that enables him to keep in touch with his extended Chicago area family and friends, as well as with several strangers. 
The desktop hums for a few search­ing moments. A minute later, a delightful DING! signals something divine. 
"New mail! I love it!" Ray's morning has begun well. Ray is online. 
lie's not the only one. According to recent national studies, more Americans than ever before are going online, and in the university setting, a sizable percentage of this Internet activity involves correspondence. Whether for class assignments, interoffice bulletins or surprise greet­ings, the number of e-mail transmis­sions fired across "cyberspace" is stag­gering. 
Ray sees nothing wrong with the massive reliance on e-mail, especially for friendly correspondence. ''I've kept in touch with people I'd almost definitely not be in touch with other­wise," he claims. 
One wonders, though, whether his friends should feel grateful. Ray is a great guy, but we live in a day that values convenience over substance and facility over complexity. In our daily errands, this is a good thing. In human relationships, I am not as cer­tain. E-mail as an expression of per­sonal conversation has redefined the way people relate to one another. 
To be sure, benefits abound. It is far easier, for instance, to enumerate one's travel itinerary in e-mail's writ­ten form than, say, to recite one's plans to a recording machine. E-mail is also faster, thanks to its incompara­bly instantaneous nature. 
Better yet, one can look up a lost friend's address and contact him out of the blue. Countless people testify glowingly about renewing acquain­

endearing, and I think, more meaningful. 
tances with former classmates because of the limitless reach of e-mail. Some of these people leave you with the dis­concerting impression that e-mail saved their dreary lives. 
The flip-side to all this, however, is that conversation can be too easy, namely less thoughtful and more reflexive. After the Cubs' ninth straight defeat, Ray showed me this gem he received from a friend in Atlanta: 
"you guys sukc. bettr lock NEXT year." 
Hardly elo­quent, but deeply gratifying to his friend, Ray explains. One wonders if post­modern conver­sation, as mani­fest in e-mail, will be nothing more than streams of con­sciousness meet­ing an indiffer­ence to detail. James Joyce meeting e e cum­mings, without the insight or the artistry. 
Long-distance conversations need not be so crude -and I do not mean it in the prudish sense of the word. Take handwritten let­ters. There is something dis­crete and pure about the compo­

sition of a handwritten letter. Never mind what is written, the time that it takes to decide what to write about and how to relate it makes this form of written conversation much more endearing and, I think, more meaning­ful. 
When handwriting a letter, the mere decision TO write reveals much more about one's state of mind than a hasti­ly typed reaction to a flippantly sent remark. Furthermore, fewer of us truly connect with people in general, never mind our friends. In this bustling age of drive-thru ATMs, credit card-operated gas pumps and grab­and-go lunching, to make good conver­sation is, in a sense, to waste time. 
In our long-distance relationships, the popular thinking goes, "Why both­er writing or even phoning someone if I can send e-mail?" Yet behind this simplistic justification there lingers a less savory rationale. Meaningful con­versation takes concentration, effort and-most importantly-time. For too many of us, our time is too pre­cious to divvy up for another person's sake. 

I wish not to paint a cynical picture of our world today, although there is more than a touch of irony in seeing one modern convenience after another compromise the much-needed art of good conversation. 
Bong Miquiabas is a third-year law student. His column appears every other Monday . 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 


~~~~--~~~~------------------~------------~ -~ -·--------------------------------------~----~--~.--.------~--.w~--.--------­
.,,. "" f 


~sY~oV\dd~. 
page 10 Monday, April 14, 1997 
Stern: Boorish, But Never Boring 
PRIVATE PARTS Directed by: Betty Thomas Starring: Howard Stern, Robin Quevers, and Fred Norris 

(Three and a half out of five shamrocks) 

By MIKE MCMORROW Accem Movie Critic 
H
oward Stern is the American that many of us simply love to hate; He is vulgar, obscene and possesses the necessary qualities that give us a perfect justification to imme­diately dismiss anything he does or has to say as atrocious. No other man in 

Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 

"Private Parts" recalls the humble beginnings and rise to fame of bad-boy Howard Stern. 
show business has polarized audiences as much as Stern. But audiences listen, those who love as well as those who hate. 
A character in "Private Parts" asks, "What is is about him that keeps those who love him still watching?" The response, "They want to see what he'll say next." And the follow up question : "What is being a noon time-slot and is to develop a cult­about Stern disc jock­like following. He has a humorous that keeps ey. rivalry with his supervisor. who is those who One og determined to tame him down (orders hate him the film's from the top), but has no such luck. still listen­m o s t Stern developed a small radio team ing?" The humorous at his job before WNBC, which includ­response: sequences ed Hobin, who was the newswoman at "They want consists of the time. The development of Hobin's to see what him trying character, as she comes to approve of he'll say to find a Stern and eventually comes to be sort next." date of taken away by his audacity, is one of 
This little only to be the most interesting parts of the movie. 

tid-bit of turned "Private down by a Parts" is blind girl representa­after she tive of what felt his the film suc­face. But cessfully he eventu­does: it ally meets explains and Allison, demon­who he strates to us convinces Stern's uni­to be in his versal student appeal. I film, and went into later she "Private becomes Parts" won­his wife. dering if it A f t e r would sim­Boston ply be a two­University, hour version he gets a of his show, Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures job as a or a more Radio and TV's king of controversy, Howard Stern, makes DJ for the 
his Silver Screen debut in "Private Parts." 

didactic salary of 
biopic of his life. The latter I got. 
The setup of "Private Parts" is a clever one. Its framework centers around Stern having a conversation with an appalled listener on a flight. The film introduces this scenario, and does not return to this frame until its final moments. 
The body of the film is the story of Stern's life, beginning with a brief account of his boyhood and then mov­ing into his college years. We learn his father was a neglecting and impatient man who constantly told him to shut up. The irony just sort of lurks out at you in this last sentence, doesn't it? We learn that Stern attended Boston University to pursue a communications degree with the modest intent of simply 

$96 a . week. lie is terrible, but a good work­
er, so he is promoted to station manag­
er for $250 a week. 
The idea of Stern being a terrible 
DJ -when that's the only thing he 
ever wanted to do -is a good indica­
tion for his reasoning behind becoming 
an obscene boor later. 
Stern is not happy being a station 
manager, although he could then 
afford to buy an apartment for him and 
Allison. So he goes back to being a DJ 
and goes through yet another job when 
he finally has the awakening that he 
can no longer hold back. We now get a 
glimpse of what Stern is to become. IIis 
obscene show takes off and he is 
offered a job from the infamous WNBC 
in New York, where he has an after-
Perhaps the reason I have been so taken aback with my reaction to "Private Parts" is because of the dis­crepancy between my opinion of him before the film and now. I thought of him as a vulgar. attention-hungry boor before -and that he certainly still is -but I have discovered a more benevolent part of him. He is not a cold-hearted person, nor is he an insensitive or mean guy. This may be an easy way to describe him, but not an accurate one. 
I'm not saying "Private Parts" drew me to become part of his listening audience, but it cnlightene me to not jump to such conelusions. I know a lot mon~ about Howard Stern now. and in turn I know a lot more about the disc jockny and radio business. What do you know! 
This is also an immensely entertain­ing move, often -admittedly -in a vulgar way. Stern is clever, even while being simultaneously disgusting. He also takes no shame in portraying his geckiness during his college days, and even now. One thing you cannot accuse Stern of is being self-glorifying. Well, maybe you can ... 
I recommend poople to sec this film not only because it is funny and enter­taining, but also because it is genuinely interesting. I was fascinated by the depiction of his early life. And the film has a certain edge and energy that never loses its impact. Simply put: you will never feel like this is a two-hour movie. It sails along, which shows its entertainment value and high interest level. You won't be bored. 
Howard Stern may be obscene and easy to hate, but you can never accuse him of being boring. 


"T_HE_.· FRE_-_N_..__ C_.----__-,H__ ·.. __,_,_·_·__,._._N_...._.._.___..E_-_CTl0_._'_,.-, tQI$ wovte was perfect' for the Cynical
Co_N_-_.,_._._, _ ____._.,1'\1•·IJi•w··· iJ/i 

......~ _ de-t::i:!.9~inwhicht1;1~ non-traditional ByJOSH___UABECK_._ le ____-__-inert stoOd out, Hackman's Doyle carved 
out a path for unconventional actors such as AccentMovie.Cridc 
DeNiro. Nicholson and Pacino. The role of the 
reb~llious, renegade hero was emerging, and 
With every <tVid,rodvte,goer,Jl,d~ tn the th:rg~~ of-· ~n was l'~&{e<:t ~s one o(the catalysts. post-Oscar doldrum$,ttsee:ms -9ltOreview ~,fillll d this n(;lwly created genre, "The French which is not only one ()fthe. classj()s of all time, but Gorin, ction'' is essentially what audiences today has won its share of gold statues as well. The still love most: a gritty, on-the-edge-of-your-seat movie is "The French Connection," which profiles polit:;e action drama involving nasty villains and a_ high-scale dm~d~~lbetweenJwo_unlikely ~~l~ ,d~i~p~~ned justi(:e givers ,,,along _with plenty of tries; Erance(ofallplaces) ant'l'thErUnited tf!s.• sli()q~ingand chasing; This filrilts.exactly tpat and It chronicles the entire deal from concepthm to m()t;e ·•. and the faCt that it is one of the first of its unexpected end with many suj'ptises, and_ one of kind .makes the audierlce feel as if they are watch­the best car-chase scenes ever in the history of ing something wholly authentic instead of an over-film. .. --. ly u qstandard,, __ _ 
Howtlver, itJs !tis~. the_ story qf :Jimmy "P.pp¢y~~· ls day·and_ ~ge, itseems as If drug busts are Doyle! a .rogue Brqpklyn cop Wht:)se abrasiye yet uentfor our taste and poor material for a effectivestylewouldpavethewayforallmaym:ick t film. Ina post-Vietnam era in which cop characters in • future. Played brilliantly by drug smuggling was only just em erg-a then Gene Hackman, · · the for all future cop 
.. from most today. 
,_.,__,~.,c!"'-"' :'~_· nature,: this film 
•seem m()ot com· 
pt1J[~>unu.tul'"~> it gives to the charac­"'"'1"''n There are no dapper, cigar-toting 
..,;.::~~ .. 

drug lords wit]J goons to match as is the quota these days~ rt~.ther, the deal is more intricately involved in thatthe players involved come from all walks of life. However, the home run of the movie is "Popeye" Doyle, who through his profane and gritty nature pursues the major players ceaseless­ly with the ]Jelp of his partner{Roy Scheider). 
-The fihning of "The French Connection," like the movie itself, is gritty, yet artistic. Directed by Oscar-winner William Friedkin, the movie jumps admirably from Paris to Brooklyn with exciting ~P~ beautif'ull~rtdscapesto match. In a· way, the leaq characters take after _their respective cities. The lead man in the deal. Catnier (Fernando Rey), is quaint and aesthetically incHned, just like the city of Paris. On the other hand, Doyle is hard­nosed and abrasive like his hometown of Brooklyn. _ · · While the film. work is impressive, this movie will always be remembered for its six-minute car chase which set the standard for all stuntman cllases to come afterwards. Taking home five stat­:ue~ ~t _the 1 · 2 Oscars '~yluding Best Picture, Be~t Direc {FriedkiU} and Best Actor (Hackman), t film is truly a gem of the movie industry and quite possibly one of the best action thrillers of all time . 
and strolling about the Kremlin. Kilmer does a  
Christmas -it's exciting, and you might fascinating job portraying these different  
get to see some cool toys; but if you actual-characters. but poor dialogue and a lack of  
ly think ,.---------..,.,...----------, a b o u t  action limit his perfor­ 
the story  mance.  
behind it  Elizabeth  
all. the  Shue, who  
ridicu­ plays Dr.  
lousness  Russell, is  
makes  an appro­ 
v 0 u  priate side­ 
i aug h.  kick for  
An old  Simon. She  
guy in a  matches  
rr~d suit  Kilmer in  
d () () s ll. t  good looks,  
travPrse  but too  
the globn  much of  
w i t h  the actors'  
() i g h t  time is  
reindeer  consumed  
friends,  dodging  
nor does  bullets and  
a bunny  crawling  
deliver  through  
tlw deco­ sewers.  
ratedb'---'.Hilli.i!~~ embryos of anoth­ Photo Courtesy Paramount Pictures  Kilmer and Shue sim­ply are not  

Movie Monda~ 

Monday, April 14, 1997 page 11 
Kilmer Falls From Grace 
THE SAINT 

Directed by: Phillip Noyce 
Starring: Val Kilmer and Elizabeth Shue 

er phy­Simon Templar (Kilmer) and Dr. Emma Russell (Shue) find romance in given the 
"The Saint."
lum; but Simon "the Magician" (Val Kilmer) steals the answer to the world's energy problems and single-handedly saves a reemerging superpower. 
Modeled after the 1960s television show with Roger Moore, "The Saint" takes place on the high-stakes stage of international espionage. The story opens with Simon Templar, one of a myriad of names bor­rowed from Catholic sainthood, slithering into the safe of a powerful Russian billion­aire. Mr. Tretiok, the Russian billionaire, then hires Simon to steal the formula for cold-fusion from Dr. Emma Russell, played by Elizabeth Shue. Escaping detection by continually taking on new identities, Simon disguises himself as an artsy nomad to gain intimacy with the genius, Dr. Russell. Simon snatches the formula from the beautiful doctor, but leaves his heart behind. She eventually traces him to Hussia, where Tretiok is devising a plan to topple the new democracy and reinstate a communist government with the help of the stolen formula. The film concludes with a showdown in Red Square, complete with American journalists. 
This predictable plot leaves you to dis­cover other interesting novelties within "The Saint." Simon's little gadgets, from a laser-impervious frogsuit to a pseudo-cel­lular phone that flips into a portable e­mail center, hold your attention as an interesting sideshow. Val Kilmer's continu­al identity changes is another novelty that enhances the film. llis cast of characters include a buck-toothed, balding scientist; a poetic, long-haired Romeo; a Russian offi­cer; and a vodka-drinking indigent 
dialogue to 
carry the film past the stage of a special-effects dis­play. Although limited by the story and the dialogue, Shue proves she has matured professionally since the days of "Karate Kid" and "Cocktail." 
Director Philip Noyce brings back an alluring character from Hollywood history, but "The Saint" simply has too many defi­ciencies to save it from mediocrity. The film suggests that Simon is plagued by the traumatic childhood that he spent in an orphanage. This identity crisis is then over-dramatized to the extent that Simon wishes to remain nameless to the woman he has fallen in love with. Random charac­ters also pop-up throughout "The Saint." A Russian prostitute suddenly appears and agrees to help the pair; and Simon and Dr. Russell bump into a black-market art deal­er to save them as they race through Moscow's sewer system. Questioning the storyline hurts the movie. 
The film is entertaining, but a weak story and poor interaction between Kilmer and Shue force "The Saint" to beg forgive­ness. Wait for this one to hit the shelf at Blockbuster. 

• SOAP OPERA UPDATE• 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL Accent General Hospital Correspondent When she finds out that Brenda is out, Miranda makes a move, but is shut down hard. She goes to Katharine's to commiserate and warns her 11-ot toexpecttoo ~uch, but Katharine doesn't hear. She's too 1;)-usy dreaming about Stefan giving her foot massages and other fun things: Miranda sees $onny and Brenda outside his apartment and her suspicious are aroused. Stefan comes over and helps Katharine to take a step. Why Was she taking her first step in stacked heels? Nikolas enters as they celebrate with a chaste kiss on the hand which is explained away. 
When Sonny finds Brenda at his house, he moves to kiss her, think­ing she has made her decision. She thanks him for his help in the cave, but tells blm she has to be alone to find out who she is. Sonny knows she's running away for them. Why is she punishing both of them? She helped him through his claustrophobia and he will help her through this. Unforttinatel¥• Brenda's fear is being alone; him being with her defeat$ ~he purpose. She tells him it could be a while. 
andpe.pr~m.tses to wa,~~;-•• 
~11ra,nda finds a l~tt recognizes Brenda's handwriting, sneaks Uito the bathroom, st sit open and reads it, because she thinks Brenda would do it. The upshot isthatMiranda knows that Sonny and Brenda made love and.$he goes to tell Jax, only to find Brenda at the apartment instead. Sonny reads the letter as Brenda moves out of the penthouse. Brenda tells Ja.x that she has her new place and is pleased that they have no more secrets. She's afraid to Jet herself be in the same room with him for fear that she'll fall into bed with him-same here! He's upset when she leaves and goes to the bar to find comfort -Southern Comfort that is -there Dorman propositions him. 
AJ and Keesha have. a fight about his drinking, leaving her vulnera­ble. to Taggart, who tells her to do whatever it takes to get info. He gets thrown out and J.ason gives Keesha the lowdown. She throws hers~llf into his arms to pour out her troubles. A contrite AJ sees her_;_ will this send hini, crawlingback into the bottle? 
Sonny has Miranda tryto remember if she saw Dorman at the air­port, but she can't. Jason is interrupted in his search of the doc's apartment: he sees drunken AJ confront Dorman, who pulls a gun. Jason warns AJ to go after Dorman sober., 
Luke and Lucky bond. even as Lucky tries to convince him that Bobbie will be just fine without them. They hang out at the club (which is looking pretty sad these days). Luke complains about Taggart's vendetta, and Mac promises to look into it. He gets the scoop from Sonny, leadjngTaggart's 900th warning. 

Bobbie still doesn't 
think she is the type of woman that Stefan showdbtl with:.th 6scl'ibes sounds like Katharine. Ned and Alexi~ · tQ clear,Monica's good name. She q~~~re ·~··· ·~takers of complicated flllllilies. She 
e~ the n(l_.. . .ll who accused Dorman of sexual 4r&$sinel1t.What's . ~ goose... ..· . · · 
e-mail Genev.iev .ill with YOUR GH comments at t:rwrr8584.@saintimzry
·: ,:·· ..::·.·:.· 
Days <of Our Lives 
fofa kid, $hawn 1);~ got. shot. At the .t~I1in~ Hope tl1e truth and keeping ··• ·• •· , l(ing, who was basicaUy respon • 
t. Ji~A King glv~s So a ring, and ........•.... hopes up that the little box is for instead, who accepts. Hope is devastat­

¢d, and Franco is pred . .· ·....·· there to pickup the pieces. 
Kingsays that if Bolearns that one of his men shot Shawn D., he has no choice but to kill ~o and Billie. At the end of Friday's show, Viper breaks down und~r a}lofBo's pressure, and says that he works for King. At the same m9tnent; Billie decides to take on King herself. 
Jack is stillin jail pmin over Jennifer. He sees Jenn and King together onTV forth Titan party. Jack learns from another inmate that King is a.. drug lord, and runs to the phone to warn Jennifer• Jack •. o getout soon, thanks to. the best lawyerJn the state~ ~ .. AS itturns out, Jack's ruling was 
stbip:t, andhe h · 'aiL ... ·.. 
·· i is now living .··· nd unknowingly {or so we assume) rl1ining Carrie and A .·•.... WhileSamisleeps, a hormone-driven Austin sneaks into C ap~rtment via the fire escape. Lucas sees his brother and calls .. ... ..•...... ... turn, Sami gel<> nervous when she can· not find her man, and g()pg.loo)dng for Carrie to aid in the hunt. Lucas holds Will and said that he never felt so connected to a kid until Will came along. Could thisbe a clue??? Hopefully we all remember that fateful day when Samiap.d Lucas got wild in the Titan back room. Sami and Lucas make ph¥1l.s to have Austin work from home. Carrie, after hearing the news, mad and fed up. 
Aild finally, Kristi:W ~ohn plot. The tension in the DiMera Mansiontightens as S ontinues to he the baby nurse. Susan sto be the ,he bouse able to calm John Jr. down, irlip.riates .. ¢., 1\l'istin hires Stephano's .contrac­···· buHU, a se~r ..· Susan in. John and Kristin consum­~ate•9 their mar,ria hf3ars Susan say ''I'm gonna take care of my baby;" ..•....· e of those patented confused looks. 
·· Susanruns into Celest .. ... . .. is Rodman of gypsies, and can feel Susan's pain. We think. • Celeste has the potential to expose Kristin for t.he fraud that she isCSusal1also revealed last week that once little Elvis gets stronger, sqe.h~sa ;'big fat surprise" for everyone. All last 
•. week, Marlena thought ~pout Ruman and the possibility of him com­.. ing hOme, Tune in this weekfor more drama,.. 
p10 at the Box Office 
1. 
Anaconda 

2. 
Liar, Liar 

3. 
The Saint 

4. 
Grosse Point Blank 

5. 
The Devil's Own 

6. 
That Old Feeling 

7. 
Jungle 2 Jungle 

8. 
Double Team 

9. 
Scream l 0. (tie) The Sixth Man 

10. 
(tie) Return of the Jedi 


Source: Associated Press 
10 Video Rentals 
1. 
The First Wives' Club 

2. 
Courage Under Fire 

3. 
The Long Kiss Goodnight 

4. 
Glimmer Man 

5. 
Fargo 

6. 
Space Jam 

7. 
That Thing You Do 

8. 
Last Man Standing 

9. 
Maximum Risk 

10. 
The Chamber 


Source: Billboard Online 







-r----~~ ~~---­

The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classif1eds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Congratulations to the Notre Dame (Patti was a member of the Class of Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum· Available 
Family Needs Graduation Bocce Club on their first official 1997 and a resident of Farley Hall.) mer in the Land Tour industry! Call Professional Office Space 2 Room TICKETS 
Tickets-Please Help! acquisition: uniforms. So, stop on by with some friends . Cruise Information Services: 800-Suite. Ideal for CPA; Ins.; Attrny. Christian 273-6967 
SFR2: We Still Can't Score def. Four Jerks and a Squirt 
4 Inmates and One Loose End def. Team 32 
Captain Ahab, Bobafett... def. 5 Guys ... 
Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem def. Crooked Grin II 
4 Guys who don't have Crabs def. Rim Shots 
Team 591 def. We're Even Worse this 
Playing w/ Balls for Naugh def. 
Froelke and the Blowfish def. 
4 White guys and Dave def. Chorizo con 
Fletch Lives def. 5'4" and Under Fake Bake def. Peanut Butter and Jelly 
Moe Lesters def. 4 Shooters and Janice 
Hoosier Daddy Now def. Stroke and Dribble 
Hot Pot Express def. Los Guapos de Ia Cancha 
Mardi Gras, Cancun... def. Shoot the Snake 
Medium Pacers def. We are Tiger Woods 
Libido Speedway def. Mikies Like It 
X-Men def Romeo, Tango and Mike Bravo 
5 Cats Quicker Than Damone def. Sniffin N' Lickin 
SERPICO def. Rim Shots 
Cheese def. Backdoor Action 
Model's Stine def. The Old and Injured 
McGuire's def. Who's Your Daddy? 
Team 62 def. Our Odds. .. 600 to 1 
The Vermicious Kanids def. Boof &the Danza Slappaz 
Burn N' Shoot def. Farfromsqueakin' 
5 Guys Who Can Swat Ali Looker def. Jem and the Holograms 
Pearl Necklace def. Energizer Bunnies 
Keeme No Mama Wa Giant Marsupial def. The Bearded Ladies 
Jerkstore def. Brotherhood of Justice ,j: 
Mahatma &4 Pretty Good Souls def. The Owl, the Gaybee. .. 
Team 151 def. Gotsch Shammgotsch 
The Midwest Hustlas def. Porsch in the Borsch Malicious Prosecution def. Dirt Road Delivery Incorporated 
Team 76 def. The Sacks 
Captain Ahab, Boba Fett, ... def. Four Guy Who Like To Make Fun ... 

. drink some Coke ... eat some 276-5407 Ext. C55846 Shared services avail; free parking pretzels ... listen to great music .. for staff & clients. 288·341 0 
and most of all SUPPORT A NOTRE DAME DEBATE COACH GOOD CAUSE!!! NEEDED 1997-98 ACADEMIC (A $3 donation is requested.) YEAR. 
FOR SALE
MINIMUM BACHELORS DEGREE CEDNNDT EXPERIENCE REQUIRED. ABILITY TO TEACH 

ILOST & FOUND I 
COURSE IN DEBATE. HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER FORWARD RESUME & COVER Great nbrhd, near ND 

LETIER BY APRIL 19: 2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500 Lost -Gold woman's watch -P.O. BOX 89 288 7862 Citizen's Elegance on Thur 4-3 on NOTRE DAME, IN 46617 campus. Call 4-3745 Marti OR CALL 631-7753 BEDS, COUCHES, TABLES 
Great personal value W/QUESTIONS FOR SALE. CALL 243-9390 
The Mynoks def. Susan a Loser. .. We Play at a Medium Pace def. Peter North's Pumping Posse Team 558 def. Hitman &Four Other People Freshly Crushed... def. Beaver Taxidermy (Every Ladls) Dream Team def. Shirtless Wonders T · Sun Ultra Spares 
re Plumbing Co. .Team 241 

. . ur Play w/ Matt II ... 12 lnchers def. am Blueballs Hot Carl+ the Steamers def. Eleven Nipples We Intimidate Ourselves def. Boobla Jones ... 
,, ;;®Moe's Tavern def. One and Out ;1~Huqk and Jim def. Six Feet Under Too! 
'i,i1Tea.m 437 def. Bing's Babes Over FatSchuck ·~· def. We Suck Too That's a Big Twinkie def. Grundel www.passtheball def. Hodge Strikes Back Hot Relations def. Your Mom ACrazy Shaggy Goat... def. Moe Lesters The Usual Suspects def. Gradation Team Donkey II ... def. Team 493 Consuming fire def. Fly Fatass, Fly Hoopaholics def. Donkey Punch Zolott in the Morning def. TT Boyz 5 Guys Observer Says... def. Forget the ball... Hoosier Daddy Now? def. Bucket of Snakes 4Strait Aeros ... def. John Tesh Live Donkey Punchers def. The Dark Jedi Knights ... Weak but Proud def. Porpaiboon's Mail Carriers Jumanji def. Norton's Squad Tossin' Salads def. Mioske Beaters Team 460 def. Wtwb: Keepin' It Real Quaker Hitmen def. Shazam Frathouse 12 def. MOnzs= 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 

Need Graduation Tickets  Ryan Mclean: what a great guy.  
Desparately. Please help!  
Brian-287·4876  ADOPTION  
Thank You  Happily married couple promises  Man, check out that salt shaker!  
love, warmth & a secure future for  Tha is huuuuge!  
your baby. Respect for you & your  
Do you have an extra GRADUA·  decision. Expenses paid.  HAIL TO THE CHIEF  
TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  Joni & Shep 1-800·528·2344  
Please call Paige at X401 1  
I am a machine  
I need 2 xtra graduation  "Pin the tail on me!" -Carla  
tix • willing to pay  
Please call Karen x4588  Are you Tiger Woods?  What theheck does that mean?!  

NOTICES 

Discover your TALENTS in leader­ship, relationship, and spirituality. Find out on the web at: http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/html /voc1.html 
Interested in Making Extra $$$? 
Large Phys Therapy Practice look· ing for students to make follow up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. Filing and computer entry also available. Flexible hours. Call Gerard or Doug now! 233­5754 
Hey everybody!!!! Tuesday, April 15 from 9-11 pm in the Lafortune Ballroom ... 
"'­
A George & the Freeks Benefit Concert for Farley Hall's Patti Kwiat Memorial Fund. 
Lost: Nikons camera-Last seen at  I need somebody to ride with  
Campus View apartments. Reward  me to Veisha next weekend!Call  
if found call Mike at 243·9396  Connie at X1833.  
LOST: STRING OF PEARLS AND A CROSS ON CAMPUS  FOR RENT  
BETWEEN HESBURGH LIBRARY  
& BASILICA IN LATE MARCH.  Near Campus  
PLEASE CALL DELORES 1-5729  Homes for 97-98  
OR  232-2595  
234-7287 AFTER 6PM.  
Staying in South Bend for the  
summer?? Sublet our College  
WANTED  Park apartment!! CALL 284-4347 for details!  

SUMMER JOBS 4 BDRM EXECUTIVE TYPE HOME ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS CLOSE TO CAMPUS.SUITABLE PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS FOR GRAD ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS STUDENTS,PROFS,ETC.2 NEAR LAKE PLACID CAR,APPLIANCES,FIN. 1·800· 786-8373 BSMNT.QUIET CUL-DE­
SAC.AVAILABLE JUNE 1. $1300. CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY· 235-3259. MENT -Discover how workers can 
earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise 
Sharp cond 
One owner '81 Olds Cutlas 

Only 60,000 miles -brand 
new motor 
Call 273-2241 
Sony Stereo ($100): CD/2-tape deck/ radio/speakers CALL BEN X1718 

MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? NEED FURNITURE??? For Sale: 2 Full Size Couches, Nice Kitchen Chairs, Twin Beds, Dresser, Entertainment Center, Coffee table and end-tables. Call Kate at 288-9278 for more informa­tion. 
Bahamas cruise for two, at less than $398 actual cost (+expenses). Call Noman @277·4269. 
SPORTS wins the official Observer  
PERSONAL  Cup • there's your recognition in print  
FAX IT FAST!!!  MIKE DAY-you get the handbook  
Sending & Receiving  
at  now stop bringing it up ...  
THE COPY SHOP  
Lafortune Student Center  
Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  All Hail the Champions of the 1st  
FAX IT FAST!!!  Annual Race  
Yeah, you all know who it is ....  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
For Sale:" John Tesh Live at Red  
SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING  Rocks" and "Yanni: Live at the  
MAJORS  Acropolis."  
Call John Gunnigle at 4-1221  
Want the best job on campus?  
SPORTS RULES!!!!!  
Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund  
across from the Lafortune Info  
Desk b/w 11 :30·12:30 M·F or  IT'S TIME TO TAKE BACK BRIO- 
call Debbie at 1-6616 for ?'s  GET'S  
(Any qualified student please apply)  


Monday, ftpril 14, 1997 page 13 
Whalers bid farewell ""' r Stanley 
(or)~~. playoU'$;'~ · Ledyard, and held out top
to Hartford with win 
.J'm.oil~ of the g"l:lYS goalie Andy Moog . who h .. 0 scoreJor us to play "It's a big relief that we By CHRISTINE HANLEY Michigan-based Compuware well. The way I pl<).yed early Jn didn't get anybody injureg," 
Associated Press Writer who engineered the club's es­
se . •was Y~t~ fr~str~~-:. defenseman Darryl Sydor said. 
cape from one of the NHL's llu a long season and ''Thatswhy you didn't see a HARTFORD, Conn. smallest markets. 

u can (;!'>me back and still lot ofguys playing." 
Glen Wesley and Kevin In the first period, the crowd have a good year even after The matchup with the Oilers Dineen scored in the Hartford let Karmanos know how they arting slow/' is a homecoming for Sydor and Whalers' 2-1 victory over felt, bursting into a chant of q(Jq ,fi~xV .. .... P~t Hitchcock, both Edmonton na­Tampa Bay Sunday, giving the "Karmanos Sucks!" Signs 
beek s()ore ............ the Stars, tives. 
fans a win to remember them showed other sentiments, like, ·twho completed their most suc-"We have a lot to prove to by in their final game at the "We hope you die," and "We'll cessful regular·season in fran-people," Hitchcock said. "At Civic Center. miss the team, not ise . · ry wi 4 poin!lil the next level, everything is Wesley scored in the first and CompuFink." 
espit tng t nal tw() magnified."
Dineen in the third for a 2-0 Karmanos, likened to Art games. The Stars got the game's frrst Whalers' lead before Dina Modell and Walter O'Malley for Both teams rested their top goal at·6:33 of the opening pe­Ciccarelli deflected in a pass orchestrating the relocation, players for their .first-roUt1(J riod when Verbeek notched his from Chris Gratton for the final was not in town to witness the 
ay? egtn t])i~ 17th from in front of the net. 
score. malaise. 
efilt ~ 
Daze :answered with a reboundThe outcome of the game The move was set into motion 
. Chicago. the N at 14:42 of the first. meant nothing to the playoff weeks ago when Karmanos 
WesternConfe Dallas took a 2-1lead at 3:18picture, as both teams were rejected the state's last and best · ··· Colo 
of the second period on

eliminated Saturday night when offer to build a new $147.5 mil­,,see4..·the Harvey's power play deflection, Ottawa clinched the final berth lion arena, and said he would dmonton~ the N6. 7 his ninth goal of the season. 
in the Eastern Conference. leave at the end of the season. 
But Chicago rallied for a pairThe lack of intensity didn't Karmanos originally agreed of goals over a span of 2:22 in

bother the sellout crowd of to stay four years when he 
. the.second period to grab a 3-214.660 that turned out to bid a bought the team for $47.5 mil­··lead. 

final farewell to the Whalers, lion in 1994. He has agreed to Daze tied it with a powerwhose owner insists he is not pay the state a $20.5 million play shot from the rightcoming back to Hartford even penalty to cross the Connecticut circle· his 21st goal, thenthough he has yet to find a new border a year earlier than 
., •.nntlEls. Jna•~K ·gav~1 Chlcago the

home. promised. 
V(Ult£1~:., at 9:47 With hiS 12th

The fo-rgiving and faithful The Whalers arrived in 
goal on a 25-foot slap shot

fans, who endured 18 years of Hartford 23 years ago, as the from tpe right side. · 
mostly misery, stood and cried New England Whalers of the old during a high-spirited and emo­World Hockey Association. They tional sendoff. became a member of the NHL 
Most of their wrath was re­during the 1979 expansion, and served for team owner Peter have given fans little to cheer 
St. Louis too much for Detroit 
Karmanos, the owner of about ever since. first round of the playoffs. The Blues' second goal was by
Blues to meet 

St. Louis' leading goalscorer, Pavol Demitra on a power play Brett Hull, missed the game at 13:31.
Hispanic Caribbean Red Wings in first with a strained groin, but the Detroit only managed four Blues were still able clinch sixth first-period shots, but cameround ofplayoffs place in the Western alive in the second. Kirk MaltbyStudy Program Conference, setting up a first­put the Red Wings on the board
Associated Press 

round meeting with the third­at 11:07 with his third goal after (Cuba, Dominican.Republic, Puerto Rico) seeded Wings. stealing the puck from Murphy. 
DETROIT 

The Blues took a 1-0 lead with Brendan Shanahan nearly tied Joe Murphy had a goal and an
Study in the Caribbean 
a shorthanded goal at 6:32 of the game moments later, but his assist to lead the St. Louis Blues the first. Stephane Matteau stole shot bounced harmlessly off the to a 3-1 victory over the Detroit the pass from Sergei Fedorov at crossbar, and the period ended
~ 
Red Wings, setting up a meeting the blue line, then beat Chris 2-1.

between the two teams in the Osgood for his 16th of the year. 

~~-CJ 
All courses offered in Spanish 
tAU
Spring 1998 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL

INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
CONCERNS

No Summer Plans?? 
April15 4:30PM 120 DeBartolo 

For further information, contact International Study Programs • 631-7435 or Professor • 631-5547 
Applications Available: at the Center for Social Concerns 
Projects Available in: 
Alabama women transitional housing Alaska Respite Ctr. for physical and emotional Aurora Mooseheart home for kids (21) Austin Tx male-Hispanic youth program-parish Detroit two; LaSed, Red Cross Raleigh, NC Food program (includes garden) Ft. Wayne Boys & Girls Club Hilton Head, SC (Car) -Boys & Girls Club Indianapolis 3 projects Louisville, KY male-Outreach programs Kokomo, IN YWCA shelter for women and kids Maine small home for teen aged girls Michigan City, IN (Car) -Elderly 
Ocala, FL tutoring/ recreation for kids So. Louisiana transitional housing-women, kids Plymouth, IN Boys & Girls Club Mpls/St.Paul housing program Dixon, IL Disabilitiesprogram So.louisiana transitional home/women/kids 
-
and more 

Stop in for more information or call Sue Cunningham, 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer, 4-1384 


page 14 The Observer • THE MASTERS Monday, April 14, 1997 
Woods masterful in record-breaking performance 
-


ByRON SIRAK round you've ever had.'" -when only one other player Elder said in front of the tournament with my A-game. Associated Press Writer It might have been more than could shoot a 66 -proved that Augusta clubhouse as he waited This is pretty close -63 holes. that. and it ended the tournament. for Woods to tee off. "I had to Excluding that (the front nine), I AUGUSTA, Ga. "Phenomenal performance," Coming into Sunday with a be part of history by watching pretty much had my A-game the 
Ultimately, Tiger Woods' Nick Faldo, last year's winner, nine-stroke lead over Costantino Tiger be the first black to win whole week," he said. record-setting Masters victory told Woods. "Welcome to the Rocca, the final round was a here." Waves of affection and was more about Jack Nicklaus green jacket." mere formality which he han­Elder broke the color barrier admiration carried Woods along than Jackie Robinson. Closing with a 69, Woods fin­dled perfectly, playing safely but at Augusta in 1975, 14 years af­on the back nine. He beamed 
The rollicking cheers and ished at 18-under-par 270, the not shyly. ter the PGA got rid of its when he hit the dangerous 12th waves of lowest score ever shot in the Even the once seemingly im­"Caucasian clause," allowing green and nearly laughed when affection that Masters and matching the most possible mark of 20 major Sifford to be the first black to he let loose a tremendously long carried under par anyone has ever been championships by Nicklaus is play on the pro tour. drive on No. 14. w 0 0 d s in any of the four Grand Slam now vulnerable. "It might have more potential Fans hooted, screamed, through the events. His remarkable accomplish­than Jackie Robinson breaking bowed as he walked by and final few His 12-stroke victory over ments as a golfer almost over­into baseball," Elder said. "No .even one young boy ran up to holes and Tom Kite was not only a shadowed yet another signifi­one will ever turn their head him and patted him on the back onto the 18th Masters record by three strokes, cant achievement: again when a black walks to the after he hit from the right rough green at but the greatest winning margin Woods' victory came just two first tee." on No. 15. Augusta in any major since Tom Morris days shy of 50 years after Woods' walk to the first tee on The list of accomplishments National Golf Sr. won in the 1862 British Jackie Robinson became the Sunday was greeted not with for Woods is staggering. Three Club made that clear. Open by 13 strokes. first black to play major league turned heads but with craned consecutive U.S. Junior 
His golf game seemed to make And Woods was the youngest baseball. necks as thousands tried to get Amateur championships, three it inevitable. by two years ever to win the And surely, 50 years from a glimpse of the game's new consecutive U.S. Amateur 
When the green jacket was Masters. now, the day Tiger Woods won hero. championships and now four draped over the shoulders of "He's out there playing an­the Masters will be discussed Woods made a birdie on No. 2 victories -including the the 21-year-old champion, golf other game on a golf course he with just as much awe and per­-one of the par-5 holes he Masters -in only 16 tourna­greeted not just the first black is going to own for a long time," haps with as much significance played a total of 13 under par ments as a pro. to win a major professional said Nicklaus, who won the as Robinson breaking baseball's for the week. And he showed Woods has won major cham­championship, but also a player Masters at 23. "I don't think I color barrier. his first flaw since Thursday's pionships as an amateur and a of the talent, intelligence and want to go back out and be 21 Woods, however, credited 40 on the front nine of the first pro in seven consecutive years, discipline to achieve his goal of and compete against him." those who had gone before him: round in the middle of that nine bettered only by the eight-year being the best to ever play the What Woods did this week at "I wasn't the pioneer. Charlie on Sunday. string Bobby Jones had in 1923­game. Augusta means that anything is Sifford, Lee Elder, Ted Rhodes, He made bogeys on Nos. 5 30. 
By the time Woods was jump­possible. It was an effort those are the guys who paved and 7, both when he hit He is the youngest to win a ing up and trying to see who recorded not on a scorecard, the way. All night I was thinking bunkers, and made a bad swing major championship since Gene was away after missing the 18th but in the record books and about them, what they've done on No. 8, hitting his second shot Sarazen won the U.S. Open and fairway way left, he had let pages of history. for me and the game of golf. into the pine needles left of the the PGA Championship at 20 in himself laugh, joked with the Nearly every sentence uttered Coming up 18, I said a little of fairway. 1922. crowd, and started to enjoy one about Woods after his victory prayer of thanks to those guys. But a great bump-and-run After a shaky start in which of the most startling and easy included words like lowest, Those guys are the ones who shot ended 3 feet from the hole he shot a 40 on the front nine of victories in the history of golf. fastest and youngest. did it." and the birdie seemed to give the first round, Woods played 
After making his final putt, The Grand Slam -winning With the same flair for the him his rhythm back. the final 63 holes 22 under par. Woods became a kid again the Masters, U.S. Open, British dramatic he has shown By the times Woods turned He not only overwhelmed the when he squeezed his eyes tight Open and PGA in the same year throughout his brief career, into the dangerous stretch of course with his length -he hit and fought back tears as he -is not out of the question for Woods not only won a major Augusta known as Amen Corner a 9-iron for his second shot on hugged his father, Earl, the man Woods, and breaking the record championship but won at at No. 11 the easy smile of a the 555-yard second hole on who taught him the game, and low score of 59 for a competi­Augusta National, a symbol of very happy young man was Saturday and never hit more his mother, Tida. tive round could be only a mat­the dying era of golf when only beginning to break through the than a 7 -iron into any par-4 all 
"My dad said last night, 'If ter of time. the caddies were black. shell of concentration in which week -he did it with remark­you play well and be yourself, it A scintillating 66 followed by "I was part of history by being Woods surrounds himself. able accuracy, a deft short would be the most rewarding a 65 in the middle two rounds the first black to play here," "I've never played an entire game and solid putting. 



Monday, April 14, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
.MLB 
Cubs tie National League losing record 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

The Chicago Cubs tied the modern National League record for season-opening futility, los­ing their 1Oth straight game as Michael Tucker's eighth-inning triple gave the Atlanta Braves a 6-4 victory Sunday. 
The Cubs tied the mark set by Atlanta in 1988. They can match the all-time NL mark of 0-11. set by the Detroit Wolverines in 1884, when they play Colorado on Tuesday. The record for worst start in the majors is 0-21 by the 1988 Baltimore Orioles. 
The hard-luck Cubs also lost dugout in the bottom of the fourth inning, suffered a cut on his right ear when he was hit by a line drive foul off the bat of teammate Brant Brown. Sandberg was examined in the dugout and then taken to Northwestern Memorial Hospital for further evaluation. 
second  baseman  Ryne  
Sandberg on Sunday.  
Sandberg,  sitting  in  the  

Chicago committed three more errors Sunday -the Cubs have 17 in 10 games -and Atlanta scored two unearned runs in the top of the eighth. 
Jeff Blauser singled and pinch-hitter Keith Lockhart hit a slow roller to first. Brown, replacing the injured Mark Grace at first, picked up the ball and threw to second but hit Blauser in the helmet and both runners were safe. With two outs, Tucker hit a two-run triple off Turk Wendell (0-1). 
Brad Clontz (2-0), who pitched a scoreless seventh, got the win. Mark Wohlers pitched the ninth for his fifth save. 
The Braves scored three runs for a 4-1 lead in the sixth. Blauser had a bases-loaded sacrifice fly to finish Cubs starter Steve Trachsel. 
Tom Glavine then dropped down a bunt, with Javier Lopez breaking from third and scoring easily. Cubs reliever Bob Patterson picked up the ball and threw it past first for his 


The Notre Dame African Students' Association proudly presents 
GUIMBA: THE TYRANT 

By Cheick Oumar Sissoko ftom Mali I Prize For Best Film Fespaco I '95.94 M 
Guimba tyrannizes a once prosperous trading city through his misuse of occult powers. Guimba demands that one of his nobles divorce his wife so his son, the dwarf Jangine, can marry her and so he, in turn, can marry her beautiful daughter, Kani. These outrageous demands begin an inexorable descent into madness and self-destruction, reminiscent of Shakespeare's MacBeth or Richard III. The entire community turns against Guimba who, isolated, humiliated and deserted by his powers, is left with no option but to hang himself. 
Followed by a Panel Discussion on WISDOM AND POLITICAL POWER 
•Prof. Fred Dallmayr, Government Dept. (Moderator)• •Prof. Douglas Agbetsiafa, Economics Dept./IUSB • • Prof. Peter Walshe, Government Dept. • •Prof. Sylvanus Udoidem, Center for Philosophy of Religion• 
Wednesday, April 16 • 7:00 PM • 15 5 DeBartolo 


first career error, allowing the runners to move up. Tucker then delivered a two-out single as Atlanta moved ahead 4-1. 
The Cubs tied the game in the bottom half. Jose Hernandez, who replaced Sandberg in the lineup, hit an RBI grounder with the bases loaded. 
With the bases loaded again, Brown hit a perfect double-play grounder to Blauser at short but he fumbled the ball as another run scored, and Scott Servais then hit a game-tying sacrifice fly. 
Doug Glanville singled in the fourth and Sammy Sosa hit an RBI double, marking the first time this season the Cubs have scored first in a game. 
Sandberg hit by foul line drive 
Chicago Cu})s second base­
man Ryne Sandberg was hit 
in the right side of the head 
by a ·line drive while .sitting 
in the dugout Sunday and 
bad to leave the game 
against the Atlanta Braves. 
The extent of the injury 
was not immediately known. 
Sal:ldberg was struck by a 
liner off the bat of teammate 
Brant Brown in the bottom 
of the fourth inning. 
~~-q.dberg Mid a towel to thesldeofhis·head while he was being examined by team physician Dr. Michael ·schafer. S~fldberg was then helped outofthe dugout and 
into the clubhouse. 
pes dashed rfbrmance 
21-20 lead with 4:05 left in ...,,.•..,"..,,,,,.·· q\larter and the led the rest of the way. The Pistons built a 14-point lead with 2;21 left in the sec­ond quarter on successive baskets by Hill. Mills, who scored 16 points in the first half, hit his fourth 3-pointer, 
giv~1lg .. Detroit a 63-49 lead at halfthne; 
Luc Longley scored Chicago's first three baskets as ~JJ.e• Bulls opened the third quarter with'a 12-5 run. But the Pistons, after a timeout, answered with a 9-2 burst. An Otis Thorpe dunk off a fast bre~k gave Detroit a 77-63 lead with 5:03 left in the third. 
The Pistons. who had only four fouls in the first half, sud­d()l.lly began g~tting careless. The Bulls hit 7-of-8 free throws. then Brian Williams scored on a dunk to cap an ll;~i b.l]rSt tlj~t cut Detroit's Jeaqto 79.,74 With 1:15left in the third quarter. · 
But the Bulls came out cold tostart the fourth, scoring only six points in the first 5:!'t5. The Pistons, getting another three from Mills, Jed 98,82 with 6;05 remaining. 
i •••;:i·[h()Pist9~§, ·playin&itheir ··third game' in four days. ed a four-game losing 
.· .· .·.for th~:~i52nd victory. 

~~ ~'!.~~m~~l3~ ®rn~q Tues. April22 
7:00 pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Join the dating pool!' 
by signing up at LaFortune Information Desk. 
Free gift certificates to 

Olive Garden, Pasta House, Brewing Company 
& more. 

Sponsored by sub 
*Limited to 1st 100 males and 1st 100 females. 
-
~· ­
Td'§ay 
women's tennis team had a 
good weekend, would he an 
understatement. Ranked No. 
19 in the country. the lrish 
came home after a close win 
against Indiana for a three­
game home stand. 
The Irish began their We~k­end on Friday With a 9-0 Win over Drake. In singlesi the team was highlighted by Kelly Zalinski and'Dar(;lie.SWe.et, who each completed a.'perl'ect match in Nos. 4 and 6 singles, respectively. The closest match came a(No. 2 singles, where Marisa Velasco narrow­ly beat the Lindsay Bell, 6-1, 7 
In No. 3·ctoiJLbles~ Courtney Olson 
Meredith La...."'""' 
Huns .8~0 in •tne;trutra.st 
of the 
" 
come very Jay Louderba~~;,pcu:mn(:l,~.tetll, "but we had on Frid<!-y;Zalinski playe<i as.well 
as I've ever seen.r~, x .· ·· i ' 
In .other doubles action, 
Gates and Halhyon. 8-3 iri No. 
1 doubles. while Zalinski and 
freshman Sarah Scaringe wtin 
at No. 2 doubles/8~4. . >: 
With the loss, Drake · 

9-lOon the season. 
On Sunday, Notte tinned their rampage Boston Colleg team per~ 
·formed With e ferocity 
as a team; . "Hall and Gates have oyer the pt~~.Jew s, but they really <lame on strong this weekend/' 
The Irish won all siX singles matches in straight·sets, with no. individualplayer ..highpght­ing the meet, The match that clinched the game came at No. 6 singles,where Sweet de­feated th~ Eagle dith Kiwasewitz, 6~3. 6-3. 
In doubles play, · · 
· scored a pertect.match. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Several of the seeded favorites advanced into the second round of Bookstore Basketball XXVI. 
team interested in advance­ing together," said Chad ment. Chevalier, whose sixth-seeded
Bookstore 

"Today's game was an impor­team Sexual Chocolate defeated tant part of Bookstore because L.A. Locos 21-8. 
continued from page 20 

it allowed us to have a good Team rhythm will be a key as py the early play may be, it time playing, but it was also the competition gets bigger and remains necessary for any good for us to get used to play-the pool gets smaller. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
''SOot' 


'
• 

Plan Ahead. Get your senior portrait taken now! Pay only $5 +tax. 
If you aren't satisfied, you can have it retaken in the fall for only $5 more! If you wait until fall, you will pay $10 for only one sitting. No retakes. 
Walk-in • No Appointment Necessary 108 LaFortune April 2nd thru April 22nd 10:00 AM to 5:00PM
-
LAUREN IS THE ONLY COMPANY THAT CAN BE USED FOR SENIOR PORTRAITS
-----------------------"""'""IWW""""'""'-""''mh.....
i llOI;'""'~""'""'""'#'I'I'IW""r•'•""''i'riiW•oQ••'''"""•'•'•'•~•'•'Rom ____ I""i_____
..WmoK iiWJW-CC:__________ 
Monday, April 14, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
Softball 
continued from page 20 
that category. 
Angela Bessolo allowed just four hits in recording her sec­ond consecutive complete game. 
In game two, Kelly Nichols led the Irish on both sides of the field, hurling a complete­game two-hitter and going 3-3 at the plate. Marten added two hits, and Sarah Mathison belted a double for Notre Dame. 
Game one of Sunday's doubleheader found the Irish offense on track once again. The team tagged the Villanova pitching staff for 12 hits, including another three-hit performance by Murray and Kara McMahon's 2-2 stint. Murray knocked in four runs, McMahon scored three and drove in one, and Kelly Rowe scored three more, with one RBI. 
Angela Bessolo threw her second complete-game shutout of the weekend, allowing five hits to improve her record to 10-8. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 3-0 lead in game two, before Villanova plated its first run of the weekend. A Murray homer in the sixth helped put the Widcats away, 8-1. 
Joy Battersby notched the complete game victory for the Irish, improving to 5-6 on the season. 
The Irish head home to host Northwestern in a double­header tomorrow at Ivy Field. Notre Dame defeated Northwestern 5-3 on March 8, at the Sooner Classic in Oklahoma City, Okla. 
• BASEBALL 


• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Baseball splits against Rutgers 
Climbing Wall Center. on Mondays and Orientations -are available Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30 
one hit in each game. He is hits in the process. Chris at the climbing wall in the p.m. for more info, call coach 
Wagner provides 

now batting .403, with 44 RBI McKeown, who came on in Rockne Memorial every DennisStarkat 1~5983. ~···· 
and a team-leading .767 slug­relief of his classmate, was Sunday at 1 p.m. and HecSports-will be hiring 
hot bat for Irish ging percentage. unable to stop the bleeding, giv­Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up two full-time, one part-time, 
Wagner's two home runs in ing up six more runs in just 1 outside the wall. and numerous substitutes to 
in double-header the nightcap were not enough 1/3 innings. 
Drop-in Volleyball -lifeguard at the St. Joseph 
to hold off a Rutgers offense, Although freshman Tom
By BRIAN REINTHALER 

HecSports will be offering Lake Beach this summer; which crossed the plate at least O'Hagan and senior Wally
Assistant Sports Editor 

Drop-In Volleyball on Please contact Greg at 1~51 00 
once in every inning of the Widelski pitched relatively well Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in or come to RecSports office at 
game. to finish the game, the two runs
After being rained out for

the Joyce Center. No estab­the Joyce Center to flll out an A late-inning burst by the they allowed in the bottom of
what must seem to the players

lished teams or advanced application. 
Irish was only able to cut the the eighth sealed the Rutgers
to be the hundredth time this

sign-ups necessary. Bar Bell Club ..-· A Scarlet Knight lead to one, as victory.
season, the baseball team made

Casting and Angling Clinic weightlifting club is coming the hosts triumphed 15-14. Notre Dame remains one
up the lost game with a double­

-includes three sessions soon next year for novice or Sophomore Brad Lidge lasted game behind Rutgers in the Big
header yesterday at Rutgers.

which meet on April 15 and serious lifters. Learn mote 4 2/3 innings but was knocked East's National Division, just a
The pair of games resulted in

17th from 6-7:15 p.m. about the art of lifting and around for seven runs on nine half game ahead of Seton Hall. 
a split for the squad and moved

Classes are held in the Joyce developing a bigger and 
its record to 22-13 overall and

Center, Rolfs. and campus stronger physique. Call Blnh 
6-4 in the Big East this season.

lakes. Equipment is provided, at 4-4364 for sign-ups and 
The Irish will look to take the

but participants are encour­more info. · 
series and a share of first place

aged to bring their own. The AnTostal-is holding a run 
in their division when they two

fee is $8 for the class and is around the lakes called 
face the Scarlet Knights this

open to students, staff, and HostileTostal on Sunday, April 
afternoon in Piscataway, N.J. 

faculty. Advance registration 20. All participants will get a 
In the first game of the day, a

with the RecSports office is free t-shirt and there is no 
seven-inning contest, Notre

required. sign up fee, they just need to 
Dame got off to a good start

Special Olympics sign up at the run itself. It 
with a solid pitching perfor­

Volunteers are needed to help starts at 2 p.m. Any questions 
mance by Darin Schmalz. The

Special Olympic swimmers. please call4-2272 or 1-7757. > 
senior right-hander threw 6 2/3

Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic impressive innings, giving up just two runs on five hits and making a sixth inning two-run homer by sophomore Jeff Wagner stand up for the 3-2 victory. Schmalz struck out 
If you're interested in.... 
Visual Basic, OLE, 
three and walked three on the day. He now holds a record of 5-2.

Active X, Visual C++, 
Wagner's blast was his ninth in 1997, and the first of three for the designated hitter in the

Custom Control Building, 
doubleheader. In his last 14 contests, Wagner has 10 home runs and has recorded at least

SQUODBC, M, QuakeC 
Client Server, or Web 
Justice: Do it, Nike 
Programming 

Multinational Corporations and Human Rights Panel Discussion 
... then we're interested in you. 


At Epic, we build some of the world's largest client server systems for healthcare. 
If you have a BS or better in Computer 

Monday, April 14, 1997 
Science (or related field) with excellent grades, then send your resume to. 
7:00 p.m. Center for Social Concerns Do you buy Nike Products? 
Epic Systems Be an informed consumer! 

5301 Tokay Blvd. 

Find out: 
Madison, WI 53711 

Is Nike )ustly doing it,, for its workers? 
jobs@epicsys.com 

Sponsored by: The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development La Alianza 
Epic has a no-smoking environment and 
Vietnamese Student Organization 
is an Equal Opportunity Employer 

Filipino American Students Organization College Democrats 
r~ 
page 18
'1 I .... fOOtball 
continued from page 20 
be looked to as a leader of the running back unit because those behind him on the depth chart lack experience. 
"I don't see it as anything dif­ferent from the past," Denson said. "This may be the spot that's a little thin as the defen­sive backs and wide receivers were last season. We feel like 
we can go out and do the job. The people that we have are capable; we just have to stay healthy and stick together." 
One of the pleasant surprises so far in the spring has been the return of Clement Stokes, who will be a senior. Stokes' talent has been impressive so far, and he is currently right behind Denson at the tailback slot. 
"Clement has shown some good things, and that has been 


The Observer • SPORTS 
a big plus this spring,.. Colletta 
said. 
Jay Vickers missed his rookie campaign due to a shoulder in­jury, but he is healthy now and is third on the depth chart. 
Come fall, one of the most an­ticipated blue-chippers will ar­rive on campus-Tony Driver. Driver garnered numerous awards in his high school ca­reer, including Kentucky Player of the Year and a first team All­American. Driver is considered the prize of the Class of 2001; his size and speed is the kind of stuff recruiters and coaches drool over. 
Driver brings the versatility to line up at the wide receiver slot or in the backfield, but he will come in at his natural tailback slot. 
"He'll be a tailback with Cooper Rego and some other guys that will get a look at the tailback position," Colletto said. 
Rego, out of Motivate, N.J., was named to the Parade All­American team and the USA Today second team All­American. The 5-foot-6-inch, 190-pound tailback brings speed which has been clocked as fast as a Rocketesque 4.38 in the 40. 
Lined up in front of Denson at the fullback position will be Jaimie Spencer, who started the last three games in 1996 after Edwards' knee injury. Joey Goodspeed saw some action in his freshman year upon moving up in the ranks after Edwards' injury and the competition at fullback has been stellar. 
"Spencer and Goodspeed are really competing, and I think we 'II be in really good shape there," Colletta said. "Kenny Barry is also coming real well." 
Barry will return for his senior year at fullback position, bringing experience and creat­ing depth for the backfield. With the new coaches and offense implemented, the team is taking advantage of spring ball to learn the system. 
"The biggest thing right now 
If you see 
Show your Seniors you care! 
sports 

Advertise in the May 16th

happening 
Observer Commencement Issue! 
call, 
The 

Hurry and reserve space before May 13th! 
Observer 
1-6900 
Call Early for best results
at 1-4543 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1998-99. 

lt\11 freshmen, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Thursday evening, April 17, 1997 at 6:30pm in room 126 DeBartolo 
******A Great Notre Dame Tradition of Winning Fulbrights****** 


is to make sure they are comfortable and learn tho stuff so they ean do it without having to think about it," Colletta said. 
"The philosophy and thinking is different," Denson said. "Some of the things remain the same, but I don't think there have been any problems with transition." 
"They all seem to be adjusting fine," Colletto agreed. "They work hard in practice and are trying to learn. I think it's just a matter of repetition time, and we will have most everything we want them to learn in after next week." 


Specializing in the following: 
• RADIO-FREQUENCY REMOVAL OF SKIN LESIONS (No Scalpel-No Scar) 
• Multi-Test Allergy Testing 

•SNORE NO MORE Intra-Nasal Passage Reduction 
No Scalpel No Pain No More Snoring 
•Tattoo 
& Birthmark Removal 

• 
Hemorrhoid Treatment 

• 
Spider Vein-Varicose Vein 

• 
Carpal Tunnel Injection 

• Skin Diseases 

• 
Female Pattern Baldness 


•Heal Pain 
(219) 243-1172 Appointments Recommended 
53830 Generations Drive (Corner of Douglas & IN 23) 23 Medical Plaza South Bend, _IN 46635 

Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 9-5 • Closed Thurs. 
-·-f:~-------­

Monday, April 14, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Yov boN'1' -r111N1< I{~ A ci/AIJCE K 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS
I'M <i,OIVNA ~Er 

DAY: julie Christie, John Gielgud,
At/Y? 

Pete Rose, Loretta Lynn 
DEAR EUGENIA: My daughter, who was born on May 3, 1976 at 9:47 p.m., started dating a boy who just got out of prison. He was born on April14, 1976. Right off, he wanted to get her pregnant and threw away her birth-control pills. He moved in on my family as soon as she was preg­nant. I believe he is bad for her. 
The baby was born Dec. 6, 19%. The father has only worked for three months since he left prison. He sponges off us for everything. I have been trying to get rid of him with no success. Now he says his mother is sending them
MIKE PETERS MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

money to visit her in California. I am very scared that I will never see my daughter and grandson again. 
Crying a Mother's Tears 
DEAR CRYING A MOTHER'S TEARS: Your daughter's partner is ca­pable of being physically abusive. Their comparison was not great, but it was magnetic in the sense that she doesn't appear to be able to help her­self. I suggest you ask them to go to California and set themselves up with work and an apartment and then send for their son. Then vou can decide your course of action: You may want to consider legal advice. I can't help feeling that your daughter just can't change the course of her life. She is prone to picking the wrong men and will continue to do so. 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): This will be an upsetting day if you jump to conclusions. Don't let business and
ASAP? OOE5 11-lfl.T 

emotional problems interfere with one another.
lt.LlCE, I NEED 
STfl.ND FOR & ~'TUPID­THIS fl.SAP. 

~,CTING !:ERSON I I.E. I 

Born Today: You will be stubborn this year. You need to learn to compro­mise and share with others if you want to make gains. You will hold yourself
SOI"\EONE WHO IGNORE~ 

back if you refuse to listen to good advice. TA5K5 UNTIL TI-\E DEAO­
LrNE? 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Dapper fellow 57 Bug's antenna 32 Foe 61 What not to yell 
1 Poet Sandburg in a crowded 34 Numbskull5 Sand bar theater37 Catch sight of 10 Jemima, e.g. 
63 Off-key14 Guy with an 39 Saccharine 65 Tied, as a score 41 Garbage boat Irish Rose 66 Revolutionary 42 Chartres15 "College Bowl" patriot Allen chapeau
host Robert 
67 Lo-cal 16 Chew (on) 44 "Deutschland 
uber--" 68 Funnyman Foxx n Off-color 
46 High season, on 69 Horned zoo 

19 New York the Riviera beast 
theater award 47 Before the due 70 Son of Seth 
20 Escalator date 
alternative 
49 African 21 Boat propellers DOWN
antelopes 23 "--Maria" 51 Actress Loren 1 Elliot of the 
24 Tear-jerker in 53 Four-time Gold 
Mamas and the the kitchen Glove winner 
Papas26 "Bald" baby Garvey 
2 Be next to 

bird 54 Chicken-­
3 Latvia's capital 28 Big toe woe king 4 French Foreign 

30 Patsy's pal on 55--platter TV's "Absolutely (Polynesian 5 Rap or jam Fabulous" menu choice) 
periods 6 Stetson, e.g. 7 Betelgeuse's 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
constellation 



a Thomas Edison's middle name 
9 Looked lecherously -...:..:.j.=+'-'-f'~'-+±:+:0'110 In the past 11 Off -center 121nnocent 13 Sound from an aviary 18 Sgt. Bilka RR-=+~~ .-::::+.:~-~~+:-1 22 Stated ~':'t;:.t::o-t'!~-'=+'=+=-+:-:-1 25 Street sign with 
an arrow ~-=+-=+~=+::+.:+.::'-!.iiill 27 Wildebeests ..::...J....:....l.:..:..J..=..J-::...J..:::...J..:::..L:=--• 28 Pedestal 
29 Off-guard 30 Embroidered 
hole 31 Cotillion V.I.P. 33 Director Brooks 35 Bunkhouse 
beds 36 Female sheep 38 "You bet!" 40 It's used for a 
call in Madrid 43 Excursion 45 Lifeguard, 
sometimes 48 Giver of compliments 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Oth­ers may want to steal your thunder when they realize you have a good thing going. Avoid serious discus­sions. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Put all thoughts of work out of your head. It is time for you to get serious about re­laxation and meeting new friends. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): You may overreact to emotional situations today. Don't jump to conclusions without having all the pertinent facts. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): Secret love affairs must be avoided. Your reputa­tion is at stake and the person in question is just playing with your emotions. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Today will be progressive; you will get in­volved in worthwhile organizations. Be cautious not to be too demanding. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): You will be frazzled if you don't take time to relax and enjoy yourself. If you plan carefully there will be no problems. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): You will have the energy to accomplish your goals. Don't hesitate to present your ideas and put them into action. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You may feel like there is less pressure on you today. Howe,·er, the stress you have encountered ha> taken its toll. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): Don't trust a deal that looks too good. Your personal partner may be a little fed-up with your preoccupation with business. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): You will want to take a break, but too many opportunities are taking place in your work area. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make amends with children. How­ever, you will have to work hard to get their understanding and trust back. 


Join The Observer staff. 
-
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
• 

Name Address City-------State ____ Zip______ 
50 Thread's partner 51 Morley of "60 Minutes" 52 Martini garnish 53 Japanese dish 56--helmet (safari wear) 
58 Reclined 59 Inner: Prefix 60 1 and 66, e.g .. 
Abbr. 62 Finis 64 Campbell's 
container 

... 
r 
f 
~ 
I 
I 
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, April 14, 1997 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALl 

Weekend plagued by predictability 
-
-> 
Seeds advance easily in first round of tourney 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor 
Last weekend's Bookstore Basketball action was as cold and predictable as April weather in South Bend. 
Mother Nature didn't sur­prise anyone with cold and rainy conditions and neither did the top-seeded teams that played. 
While about half of the top 32 played this weekend, none of the teams had a chance to exhibit their worthiness for a seed as all won fairly uncon­tested. 
Although all of the seeded teams are quick to credit their opponents' efforts, the early rounds serve as little more than practice for those who have their eye on a bigger prize. 
"In the earlier rounds, we know we are not going to play any seeded teams, so we just try to keep the same mindset we'd have if we were playing a ranked team," Chris Dotson of fifth-seeded SFR2: We Still Can't Score commented. In SFR2's 21-4 defeat of Four Jerks and a Squirt, the biggest obstacle was the large puddle that lay in the middle of the court behind Lyons' Hall. 
"The weather definitely slowed us down," Dotson con­tinued. "It was cold so it hurt our shooting and the lake in the middle of the court didn't help." 
Dotson did add, though, that the weather provided some much-needed motivation. 
"We just wanted to get the game over with so we could go inside," he said. 
Although an easy victory might appear on the surface to be a blessing, it can sometimes be a curse. The fact that a team can't play to its full potential can often later prove to hurt its performance, espe­cially as the competition heightens. 
"We're really worried about our next opponent," Dotson's SFR2 teammate Steve Starck said. "Today's game didn't give us much of a chance to get better, and we're afraid our next opponent might take advantage of that." 
In addition to hindering the overall play of the game, Mother Nature also put a damper on the efforts of those teams who just wanted to have a good time. Forty degrees, rain, and strong winds stifle the potential to have a good time shooting hoops. 
Still, the early rounds, regardless of weather condi­tions, provide a necessary barometer for a team's ability to make a run at the coveted Bookstore title. With the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment set at a busy time of year academically, many teams have not had much of a chance to get together and develop a team rhythm. Therefore, regardless of how cold or slop-
see BOOKSTORE I page 16 


The Observer/Joe Stark 

Father Malloy hoans his defensive skills against an unsuspecting fellow Bookstore competitor. 
• SoFTBALL 
lrish.::.post.--th:r:ee.;r!i'[. straight shutouts 
By ALLISON KRILLA Spores Wrirer 
Coming off a tough two game series against Big Ten powerhouse Michigan, the Irish headed east to fac~ Big East rival Villanova in a cru­cial four-game weekend s e r i e s . 
.---'-----------, Hanging in the balance was Notre Dame's slim lead over Rutgers Tn the Big East South divi­
sion. '-----------1>­
The squad responded with a bang, scor· ing 32 runs in four games, while allowing only one Wildcat to cross the plate. Stable defense and strong pitching performances result­ed in three straight shutouts 

• 
for the Fighting>Jrish, 7-.Q1 -!}·0 and 12•0 victories. · · ·· 
With the four;.gam~S\Neep, Notre Dame improved to>22­18 overall, and 10·2 in the BigEast, while Villanova fell to 4­8 in the conference. Theroad 
warriors remained .a p~~fect lO~otn Big East ro<~.dgarn.~s. 
In game one on Saturday, senior Liz Perkins continued her hot hitting, pacing the Irish offense with a three-run homer, her first clinger of the season and the fourth ofher career; 
This week's Big East player of the week, Meghan Murray, went 3-4 with a double and fellow captain Katie Marten smacked her seventh triple of the season, settinga.rtew Notre Dam(;) single~season record. Marten's triple was the 12th of her career, a new Notre Dame career mark in 
see SOFTBALL/ page 17 
• FOOTBALl 

Gaps left by graduating backs 
Denson could become best in school's history 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 

The workhouses in the stable of Irish running backs are thor­oughbreds whose names, faces, numbers, and times in the 40­yard dash are known to Notre Dame fans. 
However, this May, three of those thoroughbreds will grad­uate, and Irish eyes will become familiar with the next 

The Observerwill be profiling a different position on the Notre Dame football team each day this week. 
group that will lead the ground assault. 
Graduating seniors Marc Edwards, Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer have combined with rising juniors Autry Denson and Jaimie Spencer to create one of the deepest and most talented backfields in re­cent years. 
Kinder finished his career eighth on the career rushing list with 2,048 yards while Edwards had 1,591 yards and Farmer had 1,153 yards. 
The Irish faithful already know plenty about Autry Denson, who earned a starting role last year and has the opportunity to be one of the 
vy 
vs. Northwestern, 
a;

April 16, 3:30 p.m. 
.~­

Men's vs. Air Force ~
;P' April 17, 3 p.m. ..... 
CIJ

Softball at Goshen College April 16, 3 p.m . 
S!¢ 
~ 
Jl Monday-cr Tuesday D WednesdayD ThursdayD Friday 
finest backs in the school's his­tory. After his first two sea­sons, Denson already ranks 16th on the career rushing list. and he needs to average just over 98 yards per game for his remaining 23 regular season games to finish at the top of the record book. 
"Autry's done a lot of nice things this spring and can be a very exciting player," new of­fensive coordinator Jim Colletto said. "We're trying to figure out more ways to get him the ball." 
Besides carrying the load for the running attack, Denson will 
see FOOTBALL I page 18 
e"' Running Backs &: Tight Ends e., Quarterbacks 
•~ Coaches e,,, Ron Powlus 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 
• Women's tennis victorious 
see page 16 
• Woods wins Masters 
see page 14 


vs. Michigan, Tomorrow, 3:45p.m. 
vs. Hawaii, Tomorrow, 3:30p.m. 
at Purdue, .,,.o/ Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 









