~--------­

Tuesday, December 2, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 62 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Petition circulates to recall student president 

By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant News Editor 
Matt Griffin's future as student body president lies in the hands of the stu­dents. 
Senior Morrissey resident Jeremy Lingenfelser released a petition last week calling for a campus-wide recall vote to remove Griffin from office. Citing incompetence, negligence and mismanagement as some of Griffin's alleged acts of misconduct, the petition requires the signatures of 15 percent of Notre Dame's local undergraduate stu­dents in order for Student Senate to hold a recall vote. 
"We as students should not be embar­rassed by someone who is in the office of student body president," Lingenfelser said. "With this petition, I am trying to send a message to the rest of the stu­dent body because many of them feel the same way I do." 
The petition is based on six broad accusations which Lingenfelser believes 
He noted that many cars were sprayed with water-soluble paint but that others were hit with more permanent substances that will require work from a body shop. Rakow added 
see VANDALS I page 4 
"Griffin gave his word that he would do these things," said Lingenfelser, sev­
'MANY OF THE POINTS ON THE PETITION ARE VAGUE ... AND DO NOT 
eral of whose accusations center around CARRY WITH THEM ANY CONCRETE REASONING.' events involving alcohol. "A president 
prove Griffin is an ineffective student body president: namely, "for incompe­tent and negligent performance, for intentional mismanagement of under­graduate student funds, for disregard for the authority of the Student Union, for willful injury to the good name of the Student Union, for hindrance of the Student Union or any of its agents in legitimate endeavors, and for actions deemed unbecoming for a person in his position of responsibility." 
Underlying each broad point are specifics of alleged instances, many taken from the regular Scholastic Magazine feature "Campus Watch by the Gipper," which Lingenfelser thinks proves Griffin's disrespect for his office. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Vandals deface cars, buildings 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Associate News Editor 
Close to 150 cars, five campus buildings, and several statues and benches were vandal­ized on Saturday afternoon with red and gold paint. Notre Dame Secur,ity/Police responded at 5:30 p.m. to a witness' report of the van­dalism in the D2 parking lot, and the depart­ment is currently investigating the acts. 
"It's early in the investigation. We're reviewing surveillance tapes from Stepan Center [a .vandalized site]," said Rex Rakow, director of campus Security/Police. "There was a witness, so we're working off that description of the suspects." 
The witness noticed a dark blue Toyota dri­ving slowly through the lot and notified Security/Police. An officer patrolling on Juniper Road, a block from the lot, immedi­ately responded, but the suspicious vehicle was no longer in the area when he arrived. 
Subsequent investigation determined that 75 cars in D2, 58 cars in the O'Hara-Grace graduate residences parking lot, 10 cars in the B2/C2 lot south of D2, four cars in the D6 lot west of campus and four cars in the A7 lot ncar the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore had also been painted. 
"We're still contacting students whose cars were painted. They've also been calling let­ting us know about the vandalism. Students whose cars have been vandalized should call and let us know so we can add to our investi­gation," Rakow said. 

who is doing a bad job is one who does
MATT GRIFFIN 
not show up at events that he promised
STUDENF BODY PRESIDENF 
to be at. A bad president is a drunk and lazy one like Matt Griffin." 
Citing the student body constitution, In response to his absence at the Lingenfelser states that these "acts of opening Mass, Griffin said that he had misconduct and impeachable offenses" "made a mistake." are legitimate reasons Griffin should be "I had personal problems at home and removed from office. had to move suddenly on the day of the 
Griffin responded to the petition in a Mass," he said. "I think it is vital for a statement released last night. student leader to have a good home life, 
"The Petition of Recall is based on a and I was doing this for myself. I am foundation of untruthful and biased regretful in retrospect that I was not at information," Griffin wrote. "Many of the Mass, but it is not like I was sleepingthe points on the petition are vague ... in or that I had a hangover. The Mass and do not carry with them any con­was just the last thing on my mind:" crete reasoning." But Lingenfelser said he believes that 
Among the allegations against Griffin his allegations against Griffin are in the petition are Griffin's absences at beyond simple mistakes. the opening Mass of the school year and "When you do not show up to a Mass the student government leadership 
retreat. 


The Observer/Michelle Keefe During the Thanksgiving holiday, unidentified persons allegedly used paintball guns to smear the stairway entrance and pillars of Bond Hall (above), the wall sur­rounding the Sacred Heart of Jesus statue (below), as well as cars parked in campus lots, and other campus buildings and areas. 

see IMPEACH I page 7 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 

Publications, laundry top board's agenda 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Associate News Editor 

Student body president Matt Griffin expressed his concern at last night's Campus Life Council meeting about the Office of Student Activities' planned move of campus publications, including The Observer, Scholastic,..---..,.,....==.,..,..,__,., Magazine, The Juggler and The Dome, from their present loca­tions in LaFortune to the base­ment of South Dining Hall. 
The move is scheduled to occur this summer. 
"As a student leader, I am not excited about [the organiza­tions] being moved. I really feel Kirk 

that having the daily newspa­per's presence [in LaFortune Student Center] is necessary. I don't think it's a positive move for the campus at all," Griffin said. 
He plans to draw up a resolution for CLC's next meeting on Jan. 19, to express his sentiments. 
Father David Scheidler, rector of St. Edward's Hall, asked that information be presented about the intended use of the space now allotted for the publications. 
Morrissey senator Matt Szabo noted that "the space in South will be 24-hour space." "It's not so much a punishment of The 
Observer and the Scholastic but a decision," Szabo said. 
This issue fell under the purlieu of the Community Life Committee, which also presented information about campus laundry facilities. 
Assistant vice president for Residence Life Bill Kirk explained that he has spoken with represen­tatives of Facilities Operations and Facilities Engineering about the possibilities for installa­tion of the laundry equipment before the dorms' scheduled renovations. 
"It might make sense to install laundry facili­ties before renovation. We will find this out before the first week of January," he said. 
Griffin explained his plans to publish a guide to campus laundry in The Observer, which will describe the hours of operation of various public laundry facilities on campus as well as the times that men living in dorms without laundry machines are welcome in those with such facili­ties. 
In other CLC. news: 

• The Diversity Committee is planning a com­prehensive meeting with Priscilla Wong, assistant director of Campus Ministry, and Iris Outlaw, 
see CLC I page 4 
__J 
page 2 
• iNS!OE COLUMN 
ND at loss for disputation 
Once upon a time, in 
Laura Petelle

the hallowed halls of 
News Copy Editor 

academia, two scholars 
disagreed. 
"God is dead," said Scholar One. 
"No, he isn't!" said Scholar Two. 

Instead of descending into childish "is-not-is­
too" arguments, Scholar One and Scholar Two 
met in front of colleagues and students, defined 
their terms, and argued in the venerable tradi­
tion of academic disputation. Beginning with a 
narrow thesis, the two scholars made and 
defended their points, took questions from the 
audience, used rhetoric and persuasion, and 
sometimes, if you were lucky, started a down­
and-dirty argument. 
Academic disputation, which was in vogue in 
the Middle Ages, is a time-honored method for 
educating both students and faculty. It intro­
duces students to current questions in many 
different disciplines, facilitates the exchange of 
ideas, lets them see their professors "in 
action." 
More importantly, academic disputation 

requires that the speakers and listeners be 
able to formulate and follow a logical argu­
ment, see the holes, question the terms. 
"Questioning authority is good," said Scholar 
One. 
"Defme 'good,"' said Scholar Two. 
"Define 'authority,"' shouted a wag in the 

audience. 
So where is academic disputation today? It 

has fallen by the wayside as professors have 
become more distant from student life and stu­
dents have more often confined their learning 
to the classroom. It has been pushed aside in 
favor of panel discussions, which certainly 
have their place, but where it's rare that a 
good, heated argument gets going. 
Why doesn't the University resurrect this tra­
dition? It doesn't require a lot: a lecture hall, a 
pitcher of water, a couple of stools, maybe, so 
the disputers can sit down. 
Wouldn't it be a grand addition to our educa­
tion to watch our professors go head-to-head, 
arguing about the current questions in their 
disciplines as well as the difficult questions of 
our time? 
It would be highly educational to watch the­
ologians argue about why bad things happen to 
good people, sociologists argue about race and 
ethnicity in America (and at Notre Dame), ethi­
cists argue about cloning animals. We could 
have feminist profs and reactionary profs dis­
cuss the role of women in society. We could 
hear political scientists' opinions on the place 
of media in modern politics. 
What better place to learn to form rational, 
considered opinions? Where better for our pro­
fessors, scholars who have spent years acquir­
ing and refining their intellectual acumen, to 
exercise their minds for our benefit? 
Notre Dame strives to graduate well-rounded 
individuals, and accomplishes this through 
first-year curriculum and the University 
requirements, which ensure that the most 
poetic among us have to take a science class 
and the most scientific have to take a fine arts 
course. But as students get into their majors, 
they have less freedom to learn about other 
things. Many students are in programs that 
leave little time in their schedules for electives. 
Staging academic disputation would let a stu­
dent learn something about disciplines outside 
his or her particular field of study, help the stu­
dent see how other fields fit together. 
"Academic disputations are a good idea for 
any modern university," said Scholar One. 
"So why don't we have them?" challenged 

Scholar Two. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Toorw's STAff 
News Sarah Hansen Graphics Kristi Klirsch Pete Cilella 
Allison Koenig 
Production 
Sports 
Mark DeBoy Kevin Robinson 
Lab Tech 
Viewpoint 
Michael Boland Tara Churik Accent Andrea Jordan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a fnember of the Associated Press. All reproduC£ion rights are reserved. 
~~-~-------------------------. 
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, December 2, 1997 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Princeton student dies in car accident over holiday 

PRINCETON, N.J. 
Kristine Layn, a third-year gradu­ate student in the chemical engineer­ing department, was killed over the holiday weekend in a car accident in upstate New York. She was 23. 
Layn was driving a 1996 Ford Escort west-bound on Route 3 in her hometown of Saranac Friday morn­ing when she lost control of the vehi­cle, New York State Trooper Randy Cumm said. 
Layn slid on an icy roadway into the east-bound lane, where her car was struck on the passenger side by a 1992 Chevrolet pickup truck. Her spinal cord was severed and she was killed instantly, Cumm said. 
In a tragic irony, Cumm said Layn's father, Greg Layn, had been driving approximately three cars behind his daughter at the time of the crash, but the two were not trav­eling together. Upon seeing the acci­
• UN!VERSITV OF CAUFORNlA-BERI<HEY 
UC team works on actual 'BAT' mobile 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

Although the Batmobile contains multiple gadgets to ensure the Caped Crusader a quick getaway, UC Berkeley scientists have been working to create a different slant on that idea -developing a BATmobile that drives itself. Professor Stuart Russell and graduate students Jeffrey Forbes, Nikunj Oza and Ronald Parr compose the UC Berkeley computer science team working on what they've dubbed the BAT Project. BAT stands for Bayesian Automated Taxi, named for 18th-century mathematician Reverend Thomas Bayes, who made advances in the sci­ence of probability. Stuart Russell, project advisor and UC Berkeley professor of electrical engineering and computer science, started the BAT Project at UC Berkeley in 1992. He said he created it with two goals in mind: to provide safe automated-driving capabilities and to treat driving as a study in artificial intelligence technology. "We know we cannot deploy this car unless it's 100 times better than human drivers," Russell said. The BAT Project is funded mainly by grants from the Office of Naval Research and the National Science Foundation, said Russell. 
• Cm.oRAoo UNIVERSITY 
Policy would handle complaints sooner 
BOULDER, Colo. 

CU is looking into a new sexual-harassment policy that 
may be implemented as soon as January. Those who 
have worked on the new plan say sexual-harassment 
complaints will be· handled sooner than in the past. 
However, those familiar with the current university sex­
ual-harassment policy say speeding up the process isn't 
all that CU needs to work on. Critics of the current policy 
say the university too often labels the victim as a "trou­
blemaker." They contend that as long as men who 
harass women are allowed to continue working at the 
university, CU's sexual-harassment problem will not go 
away. Neil Ashby, co-chair of the sexual-harassment 
committee at CU, said the new policy will address signif­
icant delays that occurred when investigating cases in 
the past. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

He stabilized Kristine's neck until ambulances arrived, though Cumm said the father was completely unaware of whom he was assisting. 
"It wasn't until he was relieved by the (emergency medical technicians) that he realized it was his daughter," Cumm said. Background 
Kristine Marie Layn was born on Dec. 17, 1973, in Oslo, Norway, to Greg and Jannice Layn. 
She received her undergraduate degree from Clarkson University in 1995 and was accepted as a gradu­ate student into Princeton's chemical engineering department that spring. 
Paul Barkofsky, also a third-year graduate student in the chemical engineering department, said in an e-mail that he had developed a very close friendship with Layn over the past three years. 
"In both her character and appear­ance, Kris was beautiful," he wrote. 
Aside from Layn's interest in chemical engineering, Barkofsky said his friend had a passion for books, with a particular taste for Charles Dickens. 
In addition, Layn was an avid run­ner and had been training for the Boston Marathon. 
• !NOlANA UNIVERSITY 
Gun powder may indicate murder 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. IU police are still awaiting the results of powder residue tests, which will help determine how 20-year-old Heather 
L. Griffin was fatally shot. Griffin, of 1850 Pioneer Drive, was pronounced dead at 3:13p.m. Wednesday. According to IUPD, Griffin, her boyfriend, IU junior John P. Donnelly 
•
III, and a 15-year-old girl were en route to the IU Police Department in a Ford Explorer. The three stopped at the corner of 17th Street and Jordan Avenue to let the 15-year­old exit the vehicle. As the girl got out, she heard a gunshot coming from inside the vehicle, which prompted her to get back in the vehicle. Griffin had been shot in the stomach, which mortally wounded her. Donnelly then drove the vehi­cle to the IU police station. He ran inside the station, where he reported the shooting. The police then went outside, removed Griffin from the vehicle and began administering first aid until an ambulance crew arrived. Monroe County Coroner George Huntington said nothing was found during Griffin's autopsy that might indicate she was murdered. Although the death is an apparent suicide, the results of the powder residue tests might still indicate otherwise. 
• MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE Of TECHNOLOGY 
Board suspends frat house license 
BOSTON 
Upon returning from their Thanksgiving holiday, the 37 members of MIT's Phi Gamma Delta fraternity will begin to search for new homes. The Boston Licensing Board sus­pended the fraternity's housing license on Wednesday for eight months, beginning Jan. 15. The unanimous decision comes in the wake of the Sept. 27 alcohol-related death of Scott Krueger, a first-year Phi Gamma Delta pledge. In an interview, Ellen Rooney, chair of the three-member board, said the decision was based on the seriousness of the inci­dent as well as past violations. "When we license a frater­nity, we want to make sure that public safety is intact," Rooney said. The decision was well-received by at least one member of Krueger's family. "Suspending the frater­nity is a step in the right direction," said William W. Burke-White, Krueger's cousin. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 2. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
!0 1997 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L 6:9 1SSJ cr::J 0 [Z] 8 (;} 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vis Associated Press 
Atlanta  59  38  Helena  34  12  New York47  31  
Baltimore 59  34  Honolulu 81  67  Pittsburgh 44  26  
Boston  38  26  Indianapolis 44  34  Portland  54  39  
Chicago 43  30  Memphis 53  37  Tulsa  45  40  
Dallas  53  47  New Orleans 69  49  St. Louis  64  46  


Tuesday, December 2, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

A typical November day? 
T
he Notre Dame football 
eam has always enjoyed 

some degree of crowd support, regardless of where it plays, and that trend continued this weekend when Irish fans flew in droves to the Hawaiian island of Oahu to support their team. 
For those who wanted to observe the tropical wonders of the island, a short drive from Waikiki Beach (right), the host site, to Ha:namua Bay (above) gave tourists the opportunity to swim and snorkel with the native fish of the Hawaiian waters. 

Study indicates strong job market for grads 
Class of '98 will have better jobs, higher salaries 
Harvard Crimson via U-Wire 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
There's good news for the Class of 1998 this spring: the strongest job market in years. 
According to a study pub­lished by the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE), hires of recent college graduates will swell by nearly 20 percent next year, with increases in starting salaries projected across the board. 
Continued economic growth and low inflation seem to be the causes of this optimism in hiring, according to NACE director of Employment Information Camille Luckenbaugh. 
"It's pretty much that busi­ness is booming," she said. 
Graduates with technical backgrounds will be the most sought-after, particularly those with skills in computer science and engineering. 
Increasingly, employers in the computer software and data processing fields are snapping up as many new employees as they can who have the technical abilities, no matter what their college majors were, Luckenbaugh said. 
"Everyone should get some technical background .... If you can't get a position in your field, if you have technical knowledge, it may help you down the line," she said. 
But English majors of the world should take heart: the biggest increases in starting wages is for liberal-arts majors, according to the sur­vey. 
In non-technical fields, firms specializing in consulting and marketing are reporting the largest increases. 
At Harvard, this expansion has translated into much high­er interest in the on-campus recruiting program, the Office of Career Services (OCS} Career Forum and other ways of directly targeting Harvard students, according to OCS director Bill Wright-Swadel. 
Two years ago, 215 firms recruited on campus. Last year it was 360 and this year the numbers are even stronger. 
"We turned a lot of people away from the Career Forum. We just didn't have space," Wright-Swadel said. 
What the employers are looking for are well-rounded applicants with good communi­cations skills. 
As might be expected, those who do their homework on the company before the interview are at a significant advantage, Luckenbaugh said. 
Many employers also said they are looking for students who have strong work experi­ence either through co-op or internship programs, accord­ing to the survey. 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS ETHICS 




TIMOTHY}. ROEMER 
CONGRESSMAN, 3RD...,DISTRICT UNITED STATES CONGRESS 
.:-~» ~::,. 

Why I Am Agains~<f~~ Track Authority On Traae~Bills 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2 AT 5:00PM jORDAN AUDITORIUM, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
Sponsored by: Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
and 


Students for Responsible Business 
SRB
Notre Dame Center . 
--~­
a 
for Ethics and Religious Students for Values in Business Responsible Business 
page4 
CLC 
continued from page I 

director of Multicultural Student Affairs, to discuss its proposed four-point plan to increase campus diversity, according to Zahm senator Brandon Williams. 
The plan is based upon increased awareness and edu­cation about diversity and eth­nic issues. 
"We want to get their take on the feasibility of the four-point plan. We will have this meet­ing before the next CLC meet­ing [on Jan. 19]," Williams said. 
• Dillon senator Patrick Coyle described the intentions of the Alcohol Committee to delve into the nature of the problem of alcohol use at Notre Dame. 
"We talked about how people on this campus .and across the nation lack creativity when it comes to what to do on the weekends. People, at the end 
----·---~----~---~~-------------_,_______

Tuesday, December 2, 1997
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
of the week, are burned out and don't want to be creative and would rather just kick back with [their] Milwaukee's Best and go to town," Coyle said. 
The committee suggested that the University provide more opportunities for non­alcoholic activities. It also rec­ommended that laws be more strictly enforced with respect to the service of alcoholic bev­erages to individuals already intoxicated. 
"We also need to emphasize the immoral aspect of being drunk and the fact that it's out of Catholic character to be drunk," Coyle said. 
McGlinn senator Heather DeJesus recommended that priests include the immorality of drunkenness in their ser­gating these rights is doing a exam locations from Stepan fessors and heads of depart­mons. 
comprehensive job and that Center were not being met ments are hesitant to steer• Finally, the Academics 
CLC will simply support their with support due to problems their professors away from Committee tackled the addition work. with compromising the honor using Stepan," she said. "It isof a code of rights to du Lac. 
Herring also noted that the code when departmental tests not likely that much of a
Cavanaugh senator Lauren 
committee's attempts to per­are taken at separate sites. change ... will be seen in thisHerring said that the ad hoc suade professors to change "It sounds like a lot of pro-testing period." 
committee presently investi-

Vandals 
continued from page 1 

that although the investigation is preliminary, his goal is to "solve this and possibly get restitution." 
In addition to cars, vandals painted on benches near the bookstore and near Badin Hall, the entrance stairway and pillars in front of Bond Hall, the seats and surround­ing wall of the Sacred Heart of Jesus statue on Main Quad, the side of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and the base of the statue of Father Sorin on Main Quad. 
Markings were found on the floors and doors of Cushing and Fitzpatrick Halls and in several stairways of the Joyce Center. Seats in the Huddle were also slashed. 
"A Jot of these [areas where cars were vandalized] look like they were hit from the inside of another car, that is to say that the paint is splat­tered. It leads us to believe that a paintball gun or a Super Soaker gun was used,'; Rakow said. 
He noted that this is worst act of vandalism that the University campus has seen in at least two decades and that he does not strongly suspect a student of the acts. 
"In our history, this is not the kind of act that our stu­dents typically are involved in. This is also particularly bad for Notre Dame. A big number of cars to be vandalized in the past has been five, so this is much, much worse," Rakow said. 

Say I c 11 -1c 11 
to your favorite campus bands as they leave for a semester abroad Matt Curreri & the Florida Evans Show Band & Revue is opening for the Dunn Brothers 
09:00pm Saturday FREE 12-06-97 

Tuesday, December 2, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Tennessee father kills four children 
SHELBYVILLE, Tenn. 
A man shot and killed his three sons and his ex-wife's daughter because he was afraid he would never get custody of them, police said Monday. Daryl Keith Holton, 35, surren­dered Sunday night, roughly two hours after the children, ages 4 to 13, were shot from behind with a Russian-made, semiautomatic assault rifle in the auto repair shop where he lived and worked. "He told them to close their eyes, not to look and then he shot them," said Detective Tony Collins. "He feels that what he did, it's right," Collins said. "He was distraught over his children ... not hav­ing any control over their lives.... His last statement -I thought was unusual under the circumstances. He said, 'A father needs to be with his children at home."' Police said !!olton first shot his two older sons, Stephen, 13, and Brent, 10, and hid their bodies under a tarp, then brought his 7 -year-old son, Eric, and 4-year-old Kayla -his ex-wife's daugh­ter with another man -into a back room at the auto repair shop. After shooting Eric and Kayla and putting their bodies under the tarp, Holton went looking for his former wife, Crystle Holton, and her boyfriend but couldn't find them, Detective Chris Szaroleta said. "He was going to kill himself, but then he changed his mind and came to the police," Szaroleta said. Holton was charged with four counts of first-degree murder. 
Gore to attend global warming talks 
WASHINGTON 
Raising the stakes in global warming 
talks, President Clinton today directed Vice 
President AI Gore to attend negotiations in 
Japan. Gore said America was "prepared to 
walk away" from a bad treaty. 
Announcing his decision in a meeting of top 
advisers, Clinton said climate change "is a 
danger that the world will ignore at its own 
peril." He said Gore will outline the U.S. 
position to 1,500 delegates during a one-day 
visit next week, but negotiations would be 
left to undersecretary of state Stuart E. 
Eizenstat. Gore, the administration's top 
voice on environmental issues, has long 
been considering whether to attend the 
negotiations. The decision puts him in the 
awkward political position of defending a 
U.S. environmental policy that is considered weak by Europeans. Gore's political advisers feared that sending the vice president to Japan could backfire if the negotiations don't yield tough new restrictions on emis­sions that produce global warming. 

Composite Volume: +189.98 715,272,900 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
S'Ub:W.~~~ nnsta 'lj1fl:I~:S!If i ii~lr:i l!Bll:I 
S&P 500: 
974.77 
+19.37 

EUTO TECH HLD-Wf CLWWF 63.64 +0.925 2.25 XOX CORP UTS xoxcu 55.56 +0.625 1.75 COMMODORE APPLIE CXI 51.85 +0.925 2.56 ENVIROSOURCE INC F5 39.39 N/A 2.88 SIRCO INTL CORP SIRC 30.77 +1.000 4.25 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
CYTOCI.ONAL WTSCS CYPHW 31.82 -1.75 3.75 Tt!ERMACEI.L TECH VCLI. 25.00 -1.00 3.00 COMMODORE SEPARA CXOT 23.08 -0.75 2.50 SEARCH FINSL-PF 5FSIP 21.21 -0.93 3.25 NORTHWEST TELEPR NWTL 20.00 -0,50 2.00 


World celebrates AIDS Day 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
AIDS activists around the world marched, prayed and wore red ribbons Monday to mark the ninth World AIDS Day while AIDS victims in poor nations did what they did every day: Lived, struggled and died in obscu­rity. 
On Monday, at least, their lives were honored. 
In Europe, demonstrators observed the day with can­dlelight marches and songs; in Asia, governments announced new education and health programs aimed at fighting their growing AIDS problem. 
Thousands marched in Paris at sundown, blowing whistles and carrying placards demanding more help for victims. Rallies were also held in other French cities. 
"They are dying less in France, in the rich countries, but they continue to die more and more in the poor countries," said French Health Minister Bernard Kouchner. 
One in every 100 sexually active people age 15 to 49 worldwide has HIV, and among those infected, one in 10 doesn't know it, according to UNAIDS and the World Health Organization. 
Figures released last week show doctors had under­estimated the size of the epidemic by 30 percent: 30 million people now are infected with HIV and 16,000 more people are infected daily. Of the 2.3 million peo­ple expected to die this year of AIDS, 460,000 are chil­dren under 15. 
This year's World AIDS day emphasized the plight of HIV-infected children. 
Elsewhere in Europe, 12 Athens radio stations broad­cast an hourlong program on AIDS. Greek state-run television stations aired documentaries on AIDS, a Freddy Mercury concert -the singer who died of AIDS -and a ballet dedicated to the fight against AIDS. 
In Helsinki, Finland, lawmakers lighted candles on the steps of Parliament. Some 50 artists performed a free concert in Turku, Finland's former capital on the west coast, with the proceeds going to AIDS support centers. 
The World Health Organization said new HIV infec­tions in Western Europe have dropped 10 percent. 
More than 90 percent of l-IlY-infected people live in the developing world, and the disease is spreading at an alarming rate in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, the WHO's regional director for Europe said Monday. 
"Eastern Europe is now in the forefront of the AIDS epidemic," Jo E. Asyall said, attributing the increase primarily to intravenous drug use. 
"Across Asia, where international health authorities say they believe the number of AIDS and HIV infections is under-reported, World AIDS Day was observed with new awareness programs from China to India too." 
Two students killed in Kentucky school shooting 
Associated Press 
WEST PADUCAH, Ky. 
A 14-year-old boy who warned last week that "something big's going to happen" inserted earplugs, drew a gun and shot eight students as a prayer meeting ended in a high school lobby Monday. 
Two girls were killed and a third was in critical condition. The boy, who had three spare clips of ammunition and four other guns, surrendered when Ben Strong -a pastor's son and leader of the prayer circle ­grabbed the teen after he stopped shooting. Afterward, the boy told Heath High School Principal Bill Bond, 
"I'm sorry." 

"He acted just like he had been caught with some minor offense," Bond said. 
"Really, the main question is, why," Sheriff Frank Augustus said. "And I'm taking it that the question is not going to get answered. He himself will have to answer that, and he says he doesn't know why." 
The teen, who was not identified because of his age, carried into school a .22-caliber handgun with three spare clips of ammunition, two rifles and two shotguns. l-Ie wrapped the rifles and shotguns in blankets and told curious classmates they were props for a science project. 
The gunman warned friends in this western Kentucky community last week that "something big's going to happen," Bond said. 
The principal said an informal prayer meeting of about 35 students ended at 7:40 a.m., with the shooter and about a dozen others standing nearby.' He said the teen calmly inserted earplugs, then drew the pistol from a backpack. 
"Only the first three shots could have been aimed," Bond said. 
"After that, it was just as fast as he could pull the trigger. It was just random shooting." 
Ben Heady, a senior, said he was nearby when the shooting began. "I hear gunshots, about 10 in a row, 
just bang, bang, bang, bang, bang," he said. "People were just laying on the ground. People were screaming, running out of the hall." 
A 15-year-old girl died at a hospital about 45 minutes later. Jessica James, 17, died in surgery. Five other students were admitted to hospitals, one girl in criti­cal condition. An eighth wounded student was treated. 
After the shooting, blood was spat­tered through the lobby of the 600 student school, and the victims' books and clothing were strewn about. The student was charged as a juvenile with murder, attempted murder and burglary. The prosecutor will seek to have him charged as an adult. 
The principal described him as a "very intelligent young man" who had had "some minor problems" but had never been suspended from school. 
The sheriff said the teen stole the pistol and some of the other guns in a burglary Thanksgiving Day. 

P
ublic school students release balloons during an act marking the 1Oth International Day for AIDS yesterday in front of Sao Paulo Cathedral in the historic downtown Sao Paulo. Local health authorities report that 40,000 of Brazil's 104,000 recorded cases of AIDS can be found in Sao Paulo. 

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, December 2, 1997 

Give away your coat... and 



SHARE THE WARMTH. 
FACTS AND 
FIGURES ON 
POVERTY AND 
AMERICA's 
WoRKING PooR 
* 
Fastest grow­ing segment of homeless popu­lation: families and children. 

* 
The growth in the num working grew by between 198 and 1990, all which were accounted for by the growth of female working poor. 


* In 1992, 21% of all children were poor, with 46% of African­American chil­dren and 3 9% of Hispanic young­sters living in poverty. 

* In 1993 the bottom 20% of households received only 3.6% of lJ.S. income while the top 20% amassed 48.2%, the widest gap since the Census Bureau started keeping track in 1947. The top 5% of households earn 21% ofthe 
. 
mcome. 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

EATING UP AGAIN! 
er successful coats were , including 
Also, 201 
und the sta­and 22. 

Each donor will receive a 25 to be used in pur­

.4 Hammes Bookstore St Michael's Laundry 
~' f\ssoc.
G R Student

!40'-'c. 
Government 
, 0 

' . -< 0::, STUDENT AcnvJTms NOTRE DAME
• 

COMMUNITY SERVICE SUPPORf SERVICES 
Tuesday, December 2, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Impeach 
continued from page 1 
that you said you would be at, there is something wrong," Lingenfelser said. "He never came out and pub­licly apologized. This is just an example of his general ineptitude." 
The petition also accuses Griffin of "public drunkenness" and being in possession of alcohol in the student government offices, a direct violation of duLac. 
"I have no problem with having a drink once in a while," Lingenfelser said. "but when alcohol competes with official duties, some action needs to be taken." 
"I am 21 and of legal age," Griffin responded. "It all goes back to being a Notre Dame student. If I want to go to Coach's on my own personal time and have four or five drinks, I have a right to do that. I also don't think there is anything wrong with it." 
Lingenfelser admits to receiving much of his information from an inside source for the Gipper, the anonymous author of "Campus Watch." 
"I read the Gipper over and over, and finally thought, 'Why not impeach him'?"' Lingenfelser said. "The more people I talked to, the more I heard proof that this guy is corrupt. And then I found the Gipper's source." 
Lingenfelser claims he does not know who the Gipper is, but that he fully trusts his source and others involved in student government who "are against Griffin and want him removed." 
"If you subtract 25 percent of what the Gipper says as exaggeration, you will find the truth," Lingenfelser said. "My source has no reason to lie, and I know a lot of people in stu­dent government who can back up my allegations." 
Griffin said he thought the petition was based on misconstrued occur­rences and outright untruths. 
"It struck me that this petition is against me personally; I take this as an attack on the entire student gov­ernment office," he said. "The peti­tion takes several small instances and twists them around. A lot of what is in it is untruthful, and seems to be personal. I do not even know this guy." 
But Lingenfelser claims that writ­ing and circulating the petition have nothing to do with personal griev­ances against Griffin. 
"I am not mad at Matt Griffin; I am mad at the office of the student body president," he said. "This is about doing what is right." 
Lingenfelser said he believes that this petition and possible recall vote will prove an ethical point to future Student Union leaders. 
"This is about paying the conse­quences for your actions. Griffin is guilty of a lot of these allegations, perhaps even all of them. This comes down to being a public figure, and the way to behave when you are a public figure," Lingenfelser said. 
Griffin believes, however, that he has fulfilled his duties as student body president to the best of his abil­ities. 
"I am not an infallible person; no one can be perfect," he said. "A big part of being a student leader is the fact that you are a student. Campus government needs to be taken seri­ously, but there is a point where it can be taken too far." 
But Lingenfelser said he believes Griffin is not taking his office seri­ously enough. 
"I have nothing to lose, nothing to gain, a legitimate cause, and proof," Lingenfelser stated. "I intend to remove Griffin from office." 
And Lingenfelser is attempting to do just that. If he receives the required number of signatures on his petition, the Student Senate must hold a recall election within the next two weeks. 
"It is awful to be slapped in the face by someone you do not know," Griffin said. 
"If I am voted out of office, I will leave peacefully, but it will not be without tears. I feel that I have served the student body well." 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 
•Information Meeting• December 2 5:30 -6:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATION DEADLINE January 23 
(Important to get it in earlier) 
$1700.00 SCHOLARSHIP 3 credits (ND students only) 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
-Eight weeks of service work during the summer 
-sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and ND Alumni Clubs 
In cities of ND Alumni Clubs across the US 
•Come and find out what SSPs are all about• 
ed. 8 p.u at AluiDni Senior CluL 
Follo~ed Ly Bre~ and Vie~ 
9piD 
Cltri§IIDa§ Va.:alion 

••ISlAM IN AMERica•• 



A talk presented by DR. HAMID ABDUL HAl 
Northwestern University 
Chairman, Islamic Group, Parliament of the World's Religions 
Sponsored by the Musllm Students Association and The Mediterranean Middle East Area Studies Program 

Friday, December 5th at 6 p.m. Faculty Lounge, Hesburgh Library 








VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, December 2, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski Sporrs Editor .................................. Mike Day Advertising Manager............................. .jed Peters News Editor ....•....................... Heather Cocks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Production Manager .........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ..........•................ Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administracion of either institmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  63I-53I3  
Managing Editor  63I-4541  Advenising  63I-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  63I-8839  
Sports  63I-4 543  Office Manager  63I-7471  
Acccnr/Sainr Mary's  63I-4540  Fax  63I-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  63I-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  



Frog Experiments Heading in Wrong Direction 
You can call me old-fashioned or even quaint, if you like, but I must insist that I prefer my frogs with heads. The prospect of a row of beakers holding 


David Weiss 
limp frog bodies without either a head or a central nervous system is a little outside my tastes. In fact, I will argue that more than mere personal taste is involved when I say that I find it a grotesque thing to celebrate. 
And yet that's exactly what a group of scientists in Britain are doing. Just six weeks ago on October 18,1997, the London Times reported that researchers at Bath University, using a process of targeted genetic manipulation to sup­press their normal development, had successfully produced headless frog embryos. 
Although the technique worked, the scientists, in a no-doubt unintended but still perverse parody on the Genesis cre­ation account, destroyed the embryos just before the seventh day, at which point they might have attained the sta­tus of animals. I say "might," because it remains unclear whether such organ­isms, lacking brains or central nervous systems, would even qualify as embryos any longer -and whether they would be accorded any legal protection at all. 
In any case, the scientists celebrated these headless wonders as a break­through that might eventually, accord­ing to the AP wire story, culminate with the growth of headless human clones, custom produced for transplant organs. Refining this method and applying it to humans (in whom the same genes over­see similar functions) should allow sci­entists to "reprogram the embryo to suppress growth in all parts of the body except the bit you want, plus a heart and blood circulation," stated one of the researchers. 
Let's review that. Once the frog eggs were fertilized, scientists intervened and deliberately and selectively shut down the genetic processes governing the development of the head and central nervous system. In other words, they caused what in any other instance would be named quite bluntly as the most grotesque of birth defects. But now, of course, because we can control it, it's called progress. 
Such "progress" may unsettle even those not usually squeamish. I raise here just a couple of troubling questions from a Christian perspective, but they may give voice to concerns felt by many outside the Christian tradition as well. 
First, regarding the possible produc­tion of headless "human" clones with selectively suppressed genes. Even granting the good of providing trans­plant organs -and in no way do I wish to understate the tragedy of a situation in which a person hovers at the edge of death for want of a transplant-do we wish to engage ourselves in taking an embryo with the capacity to become imago Dei, to bear the image of God, and then systematically destroying that capacity simply to suit our own needs? Can there be any more graphic manifes­tation of the basic pattern of all inter­human sin, that is, the reduction of other persons to mere means used to satisfy our own ends? 
Most of us will recall that Jesus said "I came that people might have life, and have it abundantly" (John 3:10b). However, far fewer know the contrast­ing first half of the same verse, and I must admit I was unprepared for its uncanny poignancy with regard to this issue: "The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy"(John 3:1la). Although I am not one to read rules for today directly off the pages of the Bible, the counterpoint of Jesus' words to the prospect of harvesting organs from headless human clones is hard to miss. 
Second, even with respect to animals, have we any right to create the living dead -that is, to fashion bodies which develop and "live"-but which have been intentionally deprived of the capac­ity to be "selves" in any meaningful way? Do we really think this is an acceptable expression of what God intended (Gen. 1:26) in granting us "dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves upon the earth"? Even at the level of frogs, is it humane -is it human -to intend such an existence for our fellow creatures? 
Too often we assume that once the topic moves from humans to nonhu­mans, most if not all ethical limits fall to the side. And yet I would argue that it is 
'can there be any 
more graphic manifestation of the basic pattern of all inter-human sin, that is, the reduction of other persons to mere means used to satisfy our own ends?' 
precisely here that some of the most crucial issues appear. "Dominion" in the creation account is described as an extension of our capacity to image God. It is not a blank check; we hold it only as we image or mirror God's will for cre­ation. As such, it is central to our humanity -or our lack thereof. 
In the verses immediately preceding this granting of dominion (Gen. 1 :20-25), God blesses the animals and calls them "good"-before we humans are even on the scene. Their goodness-at least in God's eyes-clearly does not rest in their usefulness to us. How we treat animals ought not insult the God who called them "good" before we began calling them "fur," "meat,"-or "exper­iments." 
Shortly after this (Gen. 2:19-20) the first man names all the creatures in the garden. Many read this account of nam­ing as symbolic of the almost arbitrary power we hold over our fellow crea­tures. And it may be that naming has such connotations in the Greco-Homan tradition, but in the Hebraic tradition in which this story is set, naming expresses the pursuit of intimacy. Indeed, in the story itself, the man is naming the crea­tures in an effort to find a companion. Although none of the animals is found to be a suitable partner for him (and hence, God creates woman,) this does not suggest that no intimacy at all is possible -or desired by God -between humans and animals. We named them at God's invitation to explore intimacy with them. And our dominion as humans, as persons capable of living imago Dei, in the image of God, rests in large part on our willingness to find appropriate intimacy with the creatures who comprise our nonhuman compan­ions on earth. 
I dare say we will discover little inti­macy with Bath's headless frogs, or any other creatures resulting from such technology. But that incapacity for inti­macy will say far less about the crea­tures themselves than about those who have produced such creatures-or have silently acquiesced to their produc­tion. For my part, I intend to lament loudly this new technological "achieve­ment," and I will resist any effort to write off my reservations as merely old­fashioned or quaint. 
David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian Ethics. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• tlUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ifa tree dies, plant another in its place." -Carl von Linne 


VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 2, 1997 page 9 
• So, WHAT's MY POINT? 
The meaning 
of 'culture' 
Most college students these days are lucky r.nough to go abroad. 
Going abroad is a wonderful experience, and every studr.nt should have at least one chance to experience another culture. The 

Nakasha Ahmad 
only thing I object to is the way we do it. 
Most American tourists on vacation in another country have an attitude a little like visitors going to see the zoo. (Granted, foreign tourists sightseeing in the United States may have the same type of attitude -it just seems to be more prevalent with Americans than with other nationalities.) 
We Americans don't want to learn from other cultures-we just want to "study" thorn. Our collr.ctive view of other countries -especially Third World countries-is that of curiosity, and, yes, pity. "Those poor peo­ple need to be taught everything -they really don't know how to do anything." We are gen­orous and pitying. Basically, we see every poor country as a chance to throw a pity party. 
The problem is that no self-respecting peo­ple want to be pitied. 
Most Americans, however, believe that every immigrant who came here in the past 30 years, especially if they are from Africa or Asia, was dr.stitute and living in a shack and they came to the United States for money. Americans have a highly "romanticized" view of the world beyond. 
For example, when I tell people that I go to Pakistan every year to visit my relatives (my parents moved here before I was born,) most people get a strange look on their face. 
"Oh ... do you, uh, like it there?" 
I'm not sure, but I think a lot of these peo­ple are picturing me in a shack with an out­house surrounded by barnyard animals. The mental picture they conjure up is that of severe poverty and backwardness. 
Actually, most of my relatives have nearly the same standard of living that I have. Thr.re really isn't much difference. However, this is a good example of Americans thinking that those who have slightly different customs than their own are just a bit "primitive." The fact that I can speak my parents' native lan­guage and that I also wear my native dress sometimes, even though I have been born and bred in the United States, confuses a lot of people. After all. if I'm here, why don't I just assimilate? 
Unfortunately, "foreigners." whether living here or abroad. are seen as strange if they don't become completely "modern," while they live in and enjoy the benefits of a modern tr.chnological society. Just because you've moved somr.where else doesn't mean you have to leave your culture behind. And just because other people in other countries don't have the same culture, or even the same stan­dard of living, doesn't-or at least shouldn't -make them the objects of a pity-fest. 
Most groups who came here in the begin­ning struggled to assimilate with the other Americans and in fact encouraged the loss of their own culture. This collective forgetful­ness has now become the basis for seeing people who still keep remnants of their past -their language, their past, or, hey, even their relatives -as a bit weird, even if they are completely American as well. 
Although we are closer to understanding people from other countries, we may not be as close to understanding those who immi­grate from other countries-fellow U.S. citi­zens, but refusing to assimilate completely. Keeping your culture while also embracing a new one isn't backwardness. It's adaptability. 
Nakasha llhmad is a sophomore majoring in English literature and political science at ,)'aint Mary's. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The Merits of American Internationalism 

Growing up in the Third World, I found out that it was fashionable to be anti-American. The Vietnam War, going on at that time, made it somewhat justifiable-though not the American movies, TV shows and other American stuff. From the man in the street, to the students and intellectu­als, America was The Big, The Bad and The Ugly. The end of the war and soul searching was overtaken by Watergate and further critical appraisal. Anti-Americanism thus started taking roots within America (the latest manifesta­tion being in the form of anti-government militias). Scholars like Noam Chomsky and Walter Russell Mead, among others, made it academically correct to be anti­American, as they critically assessed the American creed. 
Nakasha Ahmad's pointed article in The Observer, "Iraq and the Hypocrisy of American Internationalism," thus comes as no surprise. Indeed, it is healthy to find such scathing criticism of America's world role from the young generation-from a patriot. But, somehow her case does not seem to be as strong as she would want it to be. Her offensive bypasses the merits of the case. She concedes that the recent crisis is Iraq's fault, and Iraq did violate the UN resolutions by ordering the Americans out. She could have added that in 1990 Iraq invaded neighboring Kuwait, after having fought an eight-year war with another neigh­bor, Iran. While most of the Middle East is under undemo­cratic and authoritarian regimes, only Iraq had an arsenal of biological and chemical weapons, which it is supposed to have used against its population. It remains adamant to renounce this capability. The fate of those opposed to the regime is also well known. · 
It was after the Gulf War that safe havens were created under UN auspices to protect the Kurd and Shia minorities as part of the cease-fire agreement. But what bothers the author is the "complete lack of options, other than force" to resolve the present crisis. True, the use of force is to be avoided at all costs, and does not really pay. But as far as I know the use of force has not been, nor is the first option. I remember the fateful meeting between the Iraqi Foreign Minister and U.S. Secretary of State in Geneva, shortly before the Gulf War. The fate oflraq and that of the Middle East depended on that. How many hopes were pinned on that, and how they were dashed. This was fol­lowed by a visit of the UN Secretary-General to Baghdad, in another last-ditch effort, but the die seems to be cast; so much for the "options." While the U.S. does not directly deal with Iraq, it does so through the UN. Recently Russia also joined the peacemaking efforts, but to no avail. 
Let me point out that this is also not the first time that such a crisis has developed, or pitted the U.S. against Iraq. In 1994, Iraq moved its troops to the Kuwaiti border, pre­cipitating a crisis. Last year, a similar crisis erupted over the inspection issue. One is at a loss how to characterize this obduracy. Is it a joke? A game of brinkmanship? Or megalomania? Or a "survival tactic" on the part of Saddam Hussein? 
There are some other points that do not help either the author or her criticism of the U.S. policy. "Hussein is not Hitler." Thank you. But he is a different kind of menace, who did not think twice before plunging a whole region into turmoil, and the world into war; the results of which are still reverberating, and continue to do so most callous­ly. The ecological damage caused by setting fire to the oil wells·in Kuwait may never be repaired. The author comes close to comparing Iraq with the Soviet Union, as it had far more nuclear weapons during the Cold War. Can we com­pare the two? Can Saddam be expected to act like the Secretary-General of CPSU or the Soviet Premier, brash as they had been? Despite the rhetoric, the two adversaries operated under a set of rules during the Cold War. 
Iraq is a sovereign state like any other, granted; but it did not respect the sovereignty of Kuwait. Then it let its sovereignty be violated by the Allied Coalition. Another point that comes up in anti-American discourse also needs 
• LETTER TO THE EDiTOR 
explanation: that there are many other dictators, and many violations and transgressions, so why just Iraq? Is the U.S. expected to respond to all threats to peace? Can it do so, ignoring the political, economic and military costs and implications? Is it that the U.S. should come in wher­ever or whenever we want, without regard for its inter­ests? Otherwise it's a bully. Of course, it would choose to intervene where it suits its national interest. (During the 1990-91 crisis, the Gulf states invited the U.S. and wel­comed its troops for they felt insecure and threatened; they were lucky that their interest coincided with that of the U.S.) One would think that the U.S. has a set of priori­ties, based on the nature and magnitude of threat, and that at this time Iraq qualifies as the most serious. If it were not Iraq, it could be Cuba or North Korea. One should also keep in mind that the view from the Oval Office is very different than it is from any other place like a cam­pus or an editorial office anywhere (more so in the Third World.) from where we try to analyze and operationalize world events, and crises, and offer cut-and-paste solutions. 
It would be wrong on the part of the U.S. to launch an unprovoked attack on Iraq. While it is a good idea to relax the sanctions, everyone knows that it would help the Iraqi regime more than the Iraqi people. The sanctions are there not to starve the Iraqi population, but to force the Iraqi government to give up its stockpile of chemical weapons-an extended and continuing threat. If sanc­tions do not work and Saddam does not talk or change his stance, the U.S. may have to choose from very limited options. He deserves comeuppance sometime, from some­one. 
The U.S. has had its share of blunders-even misdeeds -over the years, but, it helped restore Kuwait's sover­eignty; brought peace to Bosnia; brokered the Middle East peace accord (for whatever it's worth); restored democra­cy in Haiti; and launched a humanitarian mission in Somalia. Thus, "U.S. internationalism" has not been just saber-rattling and gunboat diplomacy. The demands and pressures on U.S. foreign policy are immense; it has to be balanced among interests, challenges and constraints. If 
U.S. 
supremacy is an ugly fact of the post-Cold War world, we have to live with it until a rival superpower rises. As for the recent crisis, Iraq is mostly to be blamed for that, just as it could be for precipitating the Gulf War by invad­ing Kuwait. President Bush's New World Order may not have materialized, but the moment is unipolar, and the 

U.S. 
has seized it. 


Noman Sattar 
Graduate srudenr 
November 20, 1997 


aljiHigh Cost 
Iraq is the effect that over 500,000 Iraqi Iraq, This has been reported by rep­Raflls~y Clark. However, it has largely 
sanctions than were killed in the Iraq has continued. actions. How would Americans sure many Iraqis don't ·p\\fi~>oJ[p~:~slldeJnt Clinton's actions. Why 
Gary Sudborough Bellflower, Cali£ November 17, 1997 
~-----~ ~ --------~ ~-~------~-~----------------------.__--,
---------~---­
page 10 Tuesday, December 2, 1997


ACCENT 

some 
avo 
'1\t,cipes 6y je{{ow students to 6e enjoye

• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What is your favorite recipe? 

"Fiautas. I love making them, I love eating them!" 
Laura Martinez Sophomore, Badin 
"Mom's Homemade Chocolate Chip cookies, they're just so good!" 
Doug Zwilling Senior, Stanford 


"Lime Jello salad. It's something I can actually make and eat!" 


Kim Schroeder Sophomore, Lyons 
"French toast. I like cinna­mon and sugar." 
Harold Johnson Freshman, Stanford 
"Spree Candy Cake, tastes good, and you can make it with scarce resources." 
Lora Bowers Sophomore, Lewis 




The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

--~~--------~--~----------------------------­
Football 1997 


Finding the pot of gold? 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Senior kicker Scott Cengia, under the hold of punter Hunter Smith (kneeling), prepares to boot the game-winning field goal on Saturday. 
Last-minute offensive drive saves the season for Notre Dame 
By MIKE DAY and BETSY BAKER Sports Editor, Associate Sports Editor 
HONOLULU 
The rainbow that crowned Aloha Stadium prior to Saturday's game almost proved to be an ominous sign for the Irish. 
In Hawaiian culture, the rainbow is a symbol of death, and those who died are said to have "walked the rainbow." The Notre Dame football team was halfway up that rainbow until Scott Cengia kicked the game-winning field goal with five seconds remaining to land the Irish back on solid ground. 
"It may not have been pretty, but it's a victory and we'll take it," said Ir-ish offen­sive guard Mike Rosenthal. "There's palm trees, a nice cool breeze, plenty of sun -so it's difficult to keep focused. on the task at hand. We were very fortu­nate to get out of here with a win." 
However, late in the fourth quarter with Irish trailing 2 2 -1"4, it seemed unlikely that Cengia would even have the opportunity to nail down the "million dol­lar" kick that assured the Irish of a bowl bid this winter. 
That's when tailback Autry Denson stepped up and took the wind out of Hawaii's sails. For the ganw. the junior running back rushed for 143 yards on 28 carries, but it was his 43-yard run with less than five minutes remaining that gave the Irish some momentum. 
"I knew we neecj.ed a spark or some­thing because we had some trouble mov­ing the ball for most of the game," said Denson. 'T had a good look, and fortu­nately, I was able to make something happen." 
Denson's score tightened the gap at 22­20, but the Irish were unable to tie the game when Powlus' pass sailed beyond the reach of Bobby Brown on the two­point conversion attempt. 
"Even after we didn't tie the game we never gave up," said Denson. "This team has so much confidence in ourselves that 
see IRISH I page 2 
Hot in Hawaii 
Notre Dame edges out Hawaii, ends season with a winning record 
see pages 2-3 
• hmm INSIGHT 
Irish win somehow over the Rainbows 
HONOLULU ile definitely not pretty, aturday's 23-22 dramat­
c victory over Hawaii was a fitting way to end the regular season for the Notre Dame football team. From Allen Rossum's 37­yard return of a Josh Skinner 
interception 18 seconds into the game to Scott Cengia's game-winning field goal with five seconds left -and all 

the chaos in Betsy Baker 
between Associate Sports Editor the win over the Rainbow Warriors paralleled a season of fighting through frustra­tion for the Irish. 
Much like the hoopla of a new coaching staff, new stadium, and basically renewed team gave the Irish momentum going into the season, so did Rossum's return for the first score of the game. However, what followed was not exactly what the Irish planned. 
While the Irish fans who made the trip to Hawaii were ready to shut the book on the game and head back to the beach after the interception, the Rainbows had another plan. The 3-8 Rainbows came out and, like Purdue, were ready to make a name for them­selves by beating the mighty Fighting Irish. 
"I talked to [Notre Dame defen­sive coordinator) Greg Mattison on the bus on the way here and told him, 'You know Hawaii is going to play their best game today,"' Irish head coach Bob Davie said after the win. "And that's what they did. So I give Hawaii a lot of cred­it." 
After the initial interception and the injury of Skinner which caused him to leave the game and brought in Tim Carey, the Rainbows began to play with a confidence and a spirit that was reminiscent of the Purdue game. So was the Irish's offensive futility. 
After jumping out to a quick 7-0 lead, the Irish weren't able to score again until midway through the second quarter. After com­pleting the LSU game with no penalties, the Irish returned to creating some costly mistakes, including key delay of game and false start penalties that forced the Irish to the punt the ball, giving the Rainbows numerous chances to score. 
A personal foul penalty by line­backer Lamont Bryant on a third­and-seven play of the Rainbows in the second quarter allowed the Rainbows to continue their drive and let Eric Hannum kick his first 
see INSIGHT/ page 3 Tuesday, December 2, 1997 

page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER 

Rainbows find no answer for Powlus' fourth quarter heroics 
passing for 100 yards. "We wanted to establish a running game and we weren't throwing the ball, really. It's hard to get in a rhythm when that happens. 
"When they were going to play against the run, they ganged up on it real well. And when they were going to play against the pass, they backed otT real well." 
The Rainbows seemed to be one step ahead of" Notre Dame offensive coordinator Jim Colletto, finding an answer for everything the Irish could throw or run at them. The same team that gave up 63 points to Colorado State had Notre Dame shaking in its flip-flops for much of the evening. 
"Give them credit," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. "It wasn't a case of us not playing. It was a case of Hawaii coming out and playing." 
And play they did. On Senior Day at Aloha Stadium, senior safeties Eddie Klanenski and Chris Shinnick proved to be a deadly duo, combining for 21 tackles (16 unassisted) against a suddenly ineffective Irish oiTense. 
"The people came to sec Notre Dame, but I think we showed them something, too," said Klanenski. "I think we showed them what this team is all about." 
After struggling for much of the afternoon, managing just one touchdown drive in the first three and a half quarters, the Notre Dame offense decided that a post-season bowl might just be in its best interests. 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Editor 
HONOLULU 
For nearly 55 minutes, its mind was some place else. With all the distractions that only Hawaii could bring. the Notre Dame oiTense looked like it had stayed in the sun too long. 
Indeed, the Rainbow defense seemed to mystify the Irish, lim­iting the Notre Dame ground attack while completely taking away the passing game. In fact, heading into the fourth quarter, the Irish had managed a measly 152 total yards. 
"We didn't play a particularly sound game on offense," said Irish quarterback Ron Powlus, who was held to just 7 -of-18 

Senior running back Clement Stokes and the Irish offense struggled much of the day but came up with the crucial drive in the final minutes. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
one mistake will never cause us to let up." 
Trailing by two, the Irish once again turned to the defense to make a critical fourth quarter stand. And despite strug­gling for much of the afternoon against the Hainbow offense, the group made the plays when it had to down the stretch. 
"It's been happening for us this year," said Powlus. "We needed to make a play; we needed to make something happen and on offense, we did." 
After Hawaii was forced to punt, the Irish offense took over at the 45-yard line with 1:30 to play. An illegal proce­dure penalty and two incomplete passes forced Notre Dame into a third down and 17 situation with just over a minute left in the contest. 
In dire need of a big play, Powlus delivered in a way that has suddenly become commonplace during the team's current five-game winning streak. The senior quarterback spotted Haki Nelson wide open across the middle and deliv­ered a bullet to the streaking receiver for a 49-yard gain. Three plays later, Cengia's kick split the uprights with five 
Trailing 22-20 with less than two minutes to play, Powlus played like the leader fans have expected him to be since he stepped on Notre Dame soil five years ago. Facing third down and 17 yards from the Irish 45­yard line, the snnior quarter­back made what may have been the biggest play of his career. 
Powlus rolled back and looked at his primary receiver Bobby Brown. However, Brown was blanketed by the Hainbow defense, so Powlus was forced to call on teammate Malcolm Johnson. Unfortunately for the Irish, Johnson was also covered, so Powlus appeared to be up a creek without a paddle. 
Not on this day. The much maligned quarterback did what was once considered the unthinkable -he looked to a third option. In fact, Powlus not only found his third option wide open -Powlus hit his receiver Haki Nelson (pause for a deep breath) on the run. 
"(Nelson) was the third look," said Powlus. "He ran a great route, and I got some time to throw it." 
When it was all said and done, Powlus and Nelson had connect­ed for a 47-yard gain, advancing the ball inside the Rainbow 10­yard line. Three plays later. Irish place kieker Scott Cengia drilled a 20-yard field goal to give the Irish a 23-22 victory. 
"We were going to go down and score," said Powlus. "I never thought, 'Oh my God, we could lose this game.' I never felt like that. I had complete confidence that we would win the game." 
Better late than never for bowl-hungry Irish fans. 
ticks left on the clock. 
"I really felt the reason we would win the game was because we had been in that situation and won before," said Davie. "Hawaii has been in that situa­tion and not won." 
The Rainbows entered the game as a 26-point underdog and were given little chance of snapping their five-game los­ing streak. 
To make things worse, Irish corner­back Allen Rossum broke an NCAA record for touchdown returns (with nine) with his interception of a Josh Skinner pass on the first play from scrimmage, giving Notre Dame a 7-0 advantage. 
"J almost looked at it as a negative; it almost happened to easy," said Davie, referring to how quickly the Irish jumped out to the lead. 
Following Hossum's recordcsetting score, Hawaii took control of the game before eventually building a 22-14 lead in the fourth quarter. However, before 35,177 fans -the smallest crowd to view the Irish in 19 years -Notre Dame decided it did not want to spend another New Year's at home. 
"Having been able to win six of our last seven games, we deserve to go to a bowl game," said Davie. "We deserve to go, and we need to go. As far as where we'll go, I have no idea." 
• REPORT CARD 
Quarterbacks: C+ but he gains a vote of sympathy for his injury. His replacement. Joe 
Powlus completed just 7 of 18 pass· Ferrer, was impressive, recording es, and nearly half of his 100 yards seven unassisted tackles, including passing came on one play. However, the team's only sack of the game. his performance on the last drive pre· Minor and Howard were once again vented a complete disaster. Jackson rock solid. came in a few times but did not main­tain much composure under pres­Defensive Backs: B-sure. 
Rossum's interception was huge but Rumiing Backs: B may have spoiled this unit early. This gr·oup was the forerunner for the 
Denson, with 143 yards on 28 car­most-improved award on the team, ries, continues to be consistent, but but then let a backup quarterback on Hawaii basically shut down everyone a 3~8 team come in and throw it off else. Barry only got the ball once, guard. and Spencer was unseen. Where is the fullback on this team? Special Teams: A-
Receivers: C Obviously, Cengia's performance saved the season for the Irish and 
Nelson's game~saving -reception sal· also secured about one milliOn bucks vaged this bunch, who only had five in howl money. With or without the receptions as a group. Dropped pass­wind, Smith was money. The way the es continue to be a problem. The Irish covered punts in the second half coaching staff needs to stay after left a lot to be desired. practice and throw 1,000 balls to each receiver as hard as possible. Coaching: C-
Offensive Line: C Granted, Hawaii is a difficult place to stay focused, but the coaches knew 
How can a team manage just 296 this going in and should have pre­total yards against the Rainbows? pared the team better. Yes; Hawaii False start penalties· forced the Irish plll,yed its best game of the year to give up the ball in clutch situa· against the Irish. but so does every­tions. Sluggish effort overall would one t~lse. It's time to get used to it. not have been tolerable against any other team. Overall: 2.56 
Defensive Line: B-The Irish have come so far over the last month but almost blew it on 
The unit continues to struggle Saturday. All accolades of character against the run, making Charles and resilience were out with the tide Tharp look like the second coming of if'Jt.vvasn'tfor the last-minute field Amos Zereoue~. However, when thi;\ go;\L. The teaxn will have itsbowt bid, gan1e was on the line· in the fourth but.better be a little more prepared quarter, it came through once again. nexttime. 
Linebackers: B -Betsy Baker and Mike Day 
Bryant's personal foul was costly,

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Tailback Autry Denson scored two touchdowns for the Irish on Saturday. 
.---------------~--------------------~--------------------------------~-----­
Tuesday, December 2, 1997 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
-


Fourth quarter defense keys victory once again 
By BETSY BAKER game, the Irish were thrown ofT guard by in the lead, 15-14 Associate Sports Editor the Hawaii offense. at the end of the "I told [defensive coordinator] Greg third quarter. HONOLULU Mattison that I was worried after that "They did a When Allen Rossum ran back the first happened so quick," Irish head coach good job of keep­
pass of the day 37 yards for a Notre Bob Davie said of Rossum's interception. ing us off-bal­Dame touchdown, it looked as though the "I said I've been in these games before -ance," Davie said defense was going to have some fun when you're favored to win like we were of Hawaii's against the Hainbow Warriors of Hawaii. -and something like that happens that offense. "The However, when Hainbow quarterback quick, I almost looked at it as a negative, thing that Josh Skinner was injured on that same because it was almost too easy." impressed me play and Tim Carey was brought into the The Rainbows came out after the inter­about Hawaii is ception with Carey at their that when they helm and, although it took wanted to run it, about two possessions to get they ran it a little warmed up, were able to get bit. Tharp hit it into a rhythm that shut down up in there. It the Irish defense. The wasn't all just the Rainbows scored on their ofT-balanced stuff. fourth possession of the game, They were able to 
a minute and a half into the control the ball." 
second quarter, and fortu­The Rainbows 
nately for the Irish missed the controlled the ball 
extra point, making the score for most of the 
7-6 Notre Dame. second half, tak­
The Rainbows kept charging ing the lead by the Deveron Harper and the Irish defense had trouble stopping Hawaii's down the field with the ball. end of the third freshman tailback Charles Tharp, who collected 114 yards on 26 led by freshman tailback quarter and then carries and two touchdowns. Charles Tharp, who finished scoring right away the day with 114 yards on 26 in the fourth. The Irish found themselves "We stepped up. We were able to settle carries. lie also was the lead­down 22-14 with 13 minutes remaining down and make some plays that made ing receiver for the Rainbows in the football game. them go three and out and we got the with five receptions for 40 However, like it has for most of the sea­
ball back." yards. son, the defense stepped up in the fourth One of the players who stepped up in a The Irish had trouble con­quarter and finally adjusted to the big way for the defense on Saturday was taining the 5-foot-8, 18 3-Rainbow's offensive scheme, getting the sophomore linebacker Joe Ferrer, who pound speedster, who had a ball back into the hands of the Irish came in for the injured Lamont Bryant similar running style, although offense, who got the score within three late in the first quarter and played 
with not as much size or quite with 11 minutes to go. throughout the game, tying Minor with as effective, as West Virginia The key defensive series of the day for seven unassisted tackles. Still, it was the running back Amos Zereoue, the Irish was when Hawaii took over the 
defense as a whole that stepped up and whom the Irish faced last ball with 4:11 left on the clock, holding gave the Irish the chance to win the week. Although Tharp per­onto a 22-20 lead, and the Irish forced game. sonally only put the ball in the the Rainbows to punt. The Irish offense "We came here with a job to do," Minor end zone on two of the five then took over and was able to move the said. "Hawaii played great. They had a scoring opportunities for the ball to where Scott Cengia landed the great scheme and a great team. They 
.J
Rainbows, he got the offense game-winning 20-yard field goal. came out and really took it to us, but we to the point at which Eric "We've kind of been known for that -just stayed in it. We knew how to win. Hannum took over, kicking making something happen when we need We just battled, hung in, and won the three field goals to put Hawaii to," linebacker Kory Minor commented . 
game." 
• .::iTMISTICALLY SPEAKING 
Team Statistics Notre Dame Hawaii 
First Downs 12 17 Rushed-Yards 43-196 37-154 Passing Yards 100 136 Sacked-Yards Lost 0-0 1-1 Return Yards 93 103 Passes 7-20-0 16-32-1 Punts 8-40.9 7-45.6 Fumbles-Lost 0-0 1-0 Penalties-Yards 8-56 9-81 Time Of Possession 30:12 29:48 
Individual Statistics Rushing: ND-Denson 28-143, Stokes 9-30, Barry 4-18, Driver 1-6, Powlus 1-(minus 1 ). 
-
Hawaii-Tharp 26-114, Carey 7-21, Kane 1-12, Ellison 1-5, 
Weaver 1-3, Dileso 1-(minus 1 ). 

Passing: 
ND-Powlus 7-18-0-100, Jackson 0-2-0-0. 
Hawaii-Carey 16-30-0-136, Skinner 0-2-1-0. 

Receiving: 
ND-M.Johnson 2-29, Brown 2-26, Nelson 1-47, Barry 1-6, Denson 1-(minus 8). 
Hawaii-Tharp 5-40, Ellison 3-36, Kane 3-7, Kirby 2-20, Macon 1-15, Mims 1-11, Kalama 1-7. 
Att: 35,177 Captain Melvin Dansby has helped lead the Irish through frustrating games like Saturday's win over Hawaii.
• SCORING SUMMARY 
give the Irish the chance to win. "We were going down to 
Still, despite the fact that the score," senior quarterback Ron

Scoring 1st 2nd · 3rd 4th Total 
Insight 
demons that reared their heads Powlus said of the last Irish continued from page 1 early on in the season for the drive of the game where he hit 
Notre Dame 7 7 0 9 23 
Hawaii 0 9 6 7 22 Irish decided to follow the team Raki Nelson for a 4 7 -yard gain of three field goals on the day to to Hawaii, the one major aspect to set up the Cengia kick. "I
1st Quarter: ND-Rossum 37 yard interception return (Cengia kick), 0:19 
pull the Rainbows within a of the game that remains con­never thought, 'Oh my God, we 
touchdown of the Irish with a stant with the season as a whole could lose this game.' I never
2nd Quarter: Hawaii-Tharp 1 yard run (PAT failed}, 1:11 
score of 14-9 at the half. is that the team has matured to felt like that. I had complete The third-quarter curse that the point at which it can do confidence that we would win 
ND-Denson 12 yard run (Cengia kick), 7:06 
Hawaii-Hannum 23 yard field goal, 10:59 
3rd Quarter: Hawaii\-Hannum 45 yard field goal, 5:34 
plagued them through the first what is necessary to win the the game." 
six games of the season game. It was the fourth last­Although it was sloppy and not returned as the Irish were left minute, come-from-behind vic­a game to fully celebrate, win
Hawaii-Hannum 33 yard field goal, 12:29 
4th Quarter: Hawaii-Tharp 8 yard run (Hannum kick), 1 :26 
ND-Denson 4 yard run (Two point conversion failed), 3:24 
scoreless and behind 22-14 with tory of the season for the Irish, they did. And although the Irish 
-



NO-Cengia 20 yard field goal, 14:55  one quarter left in the game.  and while the Irish fans  were  season has been sloppy and  
Once again, the defense was left  anything but relaxed at the end  hasn't turned out exactly the  
fending off a late-game offensive  of the game, the players had no  way that the coaches or players  
surge of its opponent in order to  doubt that they were going to  planned, the Irish are now 7-5  
ensure the win, or in this case,  win the game.  and going to a bowl.  

-
-

Bobby Brown was not able to save this ball from hitting the astroturf in the end zone at Aloha Stadium. The Hawaii secondary's coverage of the Notre Dame receivers held them to only five receptions as a group. Irish quarterback Ron Powlus went 7 -for-18 for 100 yards, and threw no interceptions. 


-

Autry Denson (above) continued his run at the all-time career rushing list with a 143-yard 
performance on Saturday. Benny Guilbeaux (far left) helps his teammate take down 
wide receiver Johnny Macon of Hawaii. 

Tuesday, December 2, 1997 page II


ACCENT 
• 

to t e 0 t a s 
over the ho{idays or any day 


Ingredients: 1 package of boneless, skinless, chicken breasts Chili powder Black pepper 1 bottle of Louisiana hot sauce 1 small onion 1 can of stewed tomatoes 
W
ash the chicken thoroughly. Season chicken heavily with chili powder and black pepper. Chop about half the onion into small pieces. Heat the can of stewed tomatoes in a skillet. Add about 1/4 cup of water to the tomatoes. Stir then add a few shakes of hot sauce. After heating mixture put about two chicken breasts into skillet or however many room permits. Add chopped onions. Let chicken breasts sim­mer in skillet until cooked. (Approximately 30 minutes, stoves may vary.) After chicken is cooked, scoop onto plate and surround with onions and tomatoes. Add additional hot sauce if so desired. Serve with whatever side dishes. 
Recipe courtesy ofAndrea Jordan Senior, Cavanaugh Hall 

Ingredients: 
1 cup cocoa, divided 
4 eggs · 
2 cups granulated sugar 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1 1/2 cups chopped nuts 
21/4 cups confectioners' sugar 
4 tablespoon Amaretto 
I
n a saucepan melt 1 1/4 cups of butter. Remove the pan from the heat. Add 1/4 cup of cocoa and beat until smooth. In a large mixing bowl beat the eggs until fluffy. Gradually beat in 
the sugar until the mixture is thick. Stir in the chocolate mixture and add the vanilla. Stir in the flour and salt and beat until smooth. Fold in -the nuts. Spread the batter into a greased 10x15 inch pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes or until firm. While the brownies arc cooling, make the frosting by melting the remain­ing 1/2 cup of butter. Add the confectioners' sugar alternately with the Amaretto and beat until smooth. Beat in the remaining 1/4 cup of cocoa and spread over the cooled brownies. Allow the brownies to eool thoroughly before cutting. Yields 24 large brown­ies. 
Recipe courtesy ofColleen Gaugh en Sophomore, Cavanaugh Hall 

GrandmaS homecooking 
By MARY MARGARET NUSSBAUM 
Assistant Accent and Viewpoint Editor 
T
here's a great scene in The Truth About Cats and Dogs where Uma Thurman and Janeane Garofolo are musing over coffee and cake. Thurman, who loves to order food, but never actually eats food, looks longingly at Garofolo's cheesecake. If you are what you eat, she posits, then Garofaolo must be really rich and satisfying. According to the theory, Thurman is all empty inside. If you are what you eat, then my grandmother, Atoo, is history and juice and joy. Every Sunday, she prepares a mini-feast. My sisters call it "!inner" or "dunch" or 
"brunch" depending on which mass precedes it. She fries okra and chicken. She drowns cucumbers in vinegar and squash in sugar and potatoes in cream and butter. In the summer, she'll serve squirting, celebrating foods like watermelon and corn-on-the-cob. In the winter, she'll pepper the chili with enough spices to cure the common cold. It coats your lips and sticks to your fingers and warms you through and through. Her food heals. Atoo makes hot, vanilla custard for the legions of ailments that can be loosely catego­rized as heartsickness, aches, fevers, needing attention or a day off from school. She prepares "hot totties," a combination of Jack Daniel's, lemon, honey and hot water for a sore throat. 
My grandmother is a Texan. In her preparing and our feasting she translates. this lega­cy; a legacy of Southern Belle luncheons, and farm suppers, and four children raised, the legacy of her power to create. In these meals she tells a story -a story that links her to her siblings who have gone before her into that long night, and a story that links us to the faceless names that were her parents, her husband, her friends. 
In eating and preparing food we speak politics -a soy milk drinking vegan and a firm believer in the wonders of pork will probably have different world views. In the meals we make, we reveal our economic status and breeding, our health concerns and aller­gies. The way we eat reflects the way·we love. Watch your friends next time you are out together. Do they selfishly gobble down their food? Do they play with it until it becomes cold and congealed? Do they deny themselves what they are really hungry for and accept a carrot stick substitute? Do they overeat? Can they only eat bland foods or are they true spice girls? Are they thankful? Do they savor the flavors and smells? Do they know how to linger over a meal? 
We eat like Americans. We like our food pre-packaged and processed, and if it is from an animal, then for heaven's sake, let's not make it obvious. We like our meat cut up into fun, little, blood and feather-free shapes. We like plastic wrap and utensils and things that can be reheated. We want our food like we want most things -now. But good food, like all great creations, takes time and artistry. 
In a few weeks we will be reunited with family and friends. Show them what you are made of by preparing a meal. Play some Count Basie while you're cooking, get a little messy, use lots of nutmeg and prepare to celebrate. 
Try adding these recipes to your own: 
FLAN 
Caramelize 3/4 cup sugar in a pan. In a separate bowl beat six eggs until lemon col­ored. Add 3/4 cup sugar, 1 quart milk (whole), and 1 1/2 tsp. vanilla. Mix thoroughly. Pour mixture into pan (on top of the caramelized sugar). Bake at 325 degrees for at least one hour until a knife inserted in the flan comes out clean. 
PUMPKIN BREAD 
2 cups pumpkin puree 
3 cups sugar 
3 eggs 
1 cup vegetable oil (can substitute 2 cups applesauce) 
3 cups flour 
1 tsp. ground cinnamon 
1 tsp. ground nutmeg 
1 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. baking soda 
1/2 tsp. baking powder 
1 tsp. ground cloves 
1. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Grease and flour two 8 1/2 x 4 1/2 inch loaf pans. Combine pumpkin, eggs and oil. In a larger bowl, combine dry ingredients. Add pump­kin mixture to dry ingredients. Stir until just combined. Spoon into loaf pans. 
2. Bake one hour or until toothpick comes out clean. Cool. 
Accent is sponsoring a top 100 wish list. Send in your number one wish for Christmas along with your name, hall and year to The 
-
Observer by Friday, Dec. 5, 1997. The top 100 will appear in The Observer on the Accent pages on Tuesday, Dec. 9, 1997. 
·--------~~ 
~ ------------~-~----------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 2, 1997 
.._ •NHL 
Canadians leave Messier off Olympic team 
By ED WILLES 
Associated Press Writer 
OTTAWA 
They broke into the National Hockey League together. They won four Stanley Cups with the Edmonton Oilers in the 1980s. And they played with the Rangers in the twilights of their careers. 
.But Wayne Gretzky and Mark Messier will not have the chance to represent Canada together in the most significant international hockey event in 25 years. 
Canadian Hockey, the umbrella organization for the team that will represent Canada at the Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, in February, made the much-await­ed announcement of its team on Saturday. Gretzky, the Rangers' center and the holder of virtually every NHL scoring record, was named to the squad. Messier, who led the Rangers to the 1994 Stanley Cup, was not. 
"I talked to Mark this after­noon," Team Canada General Manager Bob Clarke said at a news conference following the roster announcement. "He took it with the class and dignity you'd expect. He knew how hard it was to select this team and wished us good luck." 
Clarke was asked if Gretzky's selection had anything to do with sentiment. 
"I don't think that was our responsibility," he said. "He's been a tremendous player in our league and he's risen to the top every time it's been necessary. He's played great this year." 
Clarke, general manager of the Philadelphia Flyers, said he also talked to the Flyers' Paul Coffey about Messier's exclusion. Colorado Coach Mark Crawford, meanwhile, met with Avalanche winger Claude Lemieux, another strong candidate who was exclud­ed. 
Gretzky had said that if he had made the selections, Messier would have been on the team. 
''I'd have loved for Mark to be on the team," Gretzky said in a conference call. "Unfortunately, that's not the case. As Mark said, it was left in the hands of Bobby Clarke and we all have the utmost respect for Bobby Clarke. 
"''m thrilled to be invited. This is a tremendous opportunity for hockey and a huge positive for the NHL." 
A poor start to this season reportedly cost Messier his spot on the team. Both the Canucks and Messier, their new captain, struggled in the first month of the season but both have caught fire since Mike Keenan took over the team. Messier had a respectable 19 points in 25 games heading into Saturday night's games. 
The Gretzky-Messier drama was the most compelling plot in Saturday's announcement, but it was not the only one. The Canadian selections seemed to favor size and defense over speed and skill on the 23-player roster. 
Joining Gretzky up front were forwards Rob Brind'Amour, Shayne Corson, Theoren Fleury, Paul Kariya, Trevor Linden, Eric Lindros, Joe Nieuwendyk, Keith Primeau, Joe Sakic, Brendan Shanahan, Steve Yzerman, and Rob Zamuner. 
Zamuner, a defensive specialist from the Tampa Bay Lightning, rates as the surprise selection. Nieuwendyk, Primeau and Brind'Amour are power-forward types who made it over smaller, more-skilled players like Mark Recchi and Doug Gilmour. 
The defense features Rob Blake, Ray Bourque, Eric Desjardins, Adam Foote, AI Macinnis, Chris Pronger and the Devils' Scott Stevens. Conspicuous by his absence was the Devils' Scott Niedermayer, who was tied for third among defensemen in scor­ing heading into Saturday night's games. 
The goalies -Martin Brodeur of the Devils, Patrick Roy and Curtis Joseph -were no surpris­es. 
"I think you all know how hard it was to select this team," Clarke said. "We wish we could have taken some other players, but we're confident in the makeup of this team." 
Lindros, the imposing center from the Flyers, will be the cap­tain. The assistant captains are Yzerman and Sakic. When asked if Lindros's appointment signalled a changing of the guard in Canada, Clarke said, "It's time for that age group of players to step up." The team's collective salary, minus the free agent Kariya, is about $75 million. 

KRP 
Mark Messier will not be on the Canadian Olympic team this year, despite support from other players. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day 
Classifieds classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, includ­ing all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
VACATION OVER THE CHRIST­ 6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­ 1987 Buick Century, V6, Automatic,  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
NOTICES 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center  WANTEDI I CHRISTIAN BUSINESS OPPOR­TUNITY Earn a living while spread- MAS HOLIDAYS ON THE BEACH OF SIESTA KEY, FLORIDA IN A BEAUTIFUL, DELUXE CONDO· MINIUM ON THE GULF OF MEXI· CO. UNIT HAS A FULLY EQUIPPED KITCHEN AND  6551 House to Rent: 3 bedroom, beauti­lui wood floors, new kitchen on his­toric Riverside Dr. 5 min. drive to ND. Perfect for Grad. students or  4 door, power windows, seats, & locks. One owner, reliable, great car. $2,400/best offer. Call now 631-6436  LaFortune Student Center vHigh-Speed Copies vCanon Color Laser Copies vDigital Color Printing vBinding & Laminating vPublic Fax Service 631-FAX1  
Store Hours  ing God's word. Join Scriptures.  SLEEPS 3. THERE IS A HEATED  visiting faculty. $750 a month, util.  89 Honda Civic Dx,V.Ciean,New  Phone 631-COPY  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  Sign up is FREE. To receive a FREE Info Pack calli­800-585-5873 option 3 and listen to "Success with Scriptures." Please  POOL WITH HOT TUB. 12-19-97 TO 1-2-98. SEA CLUB VROOM 114 VALUE $1630, RENT FOR $800.  included. available Jan-June negot. Call John at 631-4114. Studio Apt.  Tires, 109k, $3400/BO 2773254. PERSONAL  This is not Disney. Japanese Animation Thurs-DBART 141 · 7:30  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  leave my I.D.#5237.  CALL LARRY GRUMMELL  Large, completely turn., 1st fir., 1.5  
Phone 631-COPY  219-291-2988.  mi. north of campus.  000 Looking for a unique gift?  
Spring Break '98  SALES/MARKETING  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­TER OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097  $500/mo incl. utilities. To the right tenant, rent & garage parking negotiable. 219-277-2211.  Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! THE COPY SHOP  Hey everybody: there's going to be a message from Jamie here tomor­row about some Thanksgiving adventure she and her fnends had.  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com  Excellent opportunity. Part-time per­son needed. We will work around your schedule. Great income. Fax resume to 1-800-333-7562 or leave name & number at 1-800­332-5643.  Furn Rm $325/mo incl utilities, washer/dryer. Privacy! Karen 284­6257 (day) 273-4517 (eve)  FOR SALE Near Campus -1338 Miner St. 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New Roof, Siding & Carpet. Central Air & Full Basement  LaFortune Student Center Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/ND-SMC ID-1/2 price  Siskel and Ebert have already read it, and they give it two thumbs up. SOUTH BEND RADIO IS JUST TERRIBLE. I CAN'T BELIEVE I'M  
ILOST & FOUND I  FOR RENT  Turtle Creek-2 bedroom Sublet Jan-May Free furniture/bed  $44,900 1-800-382-2952 2 Extra-Long Twin Bed/Box Spring  field fee. 291-2540. ND Inquisition  ACTUALLY LISTENING TO THE SONG THAT IS PLAYING RIGHT NOW.  
LOST: PAIR OF BROWN LEATHER GLOVES ON NOV. 19. CALL NICK 246-1146.  WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Call T J 243-5327 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  & Frame Sets-$125.00 each. Small Square Restaurant Table, Brown -$20.00. Large Artificial Christmas Tree-$40.00. Call631­ http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu We're smarter than you.  I NEED A RIDE HOME TO TAMPA, FLORIDA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Call Dan at 4-2486.  
$195/PERSON  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  1354 or 243-0260.  
- Can you help? LOST "CAMERA' Kodak Cameo, probably around fall break-> maybe at West Quad Field during IH football? I? "PLEASE" call Nicole @ 0565 w/ any clues.  232-2595 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219 291 7153  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS · 5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS PROPERTIES. 272-6551  Brand New Computers • 200M Hz, 32 MB RAM, 33.6k modem, 1.6 GB hard drive, 20X CD-ROM, Sound Card, SOW speakers, 14" monitor. $1250 + shipping. Call Julie at (970)221-0494.  Would you like a tossed salad today?????? Hey Sweet Daisy!  If I never see this office again it will be way to soon. This is me not caring anymore. Not one bit and probably never again.  

Tuesday, December 2, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA 
Oakley gets slapped with fine 
By MOLLY MCVOY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's home open College on through in a Anderson Saturday. ijppe d.lefe:ate:u Belles 59-41, but topped Anderson . •78. 
Hope proved to be too cult for Saint Mary's. 
"We didn't play our explained freshman Norman. "Any other we could have won. We n"'""··: ... ,.,:,:· 
to give [Hope] credit; their defense was in our face the entire game." 
The Belles defense was tough on Tuesday, but the offense showed signs of tiring in the second half, shooting only 20 percent from the field. 
Anderson, on the other hand. was an outstanding win year; com­
e rteed to elimi­nat¢ easy inside shots and we will he competitive in every game." 
Saf~t M~ry's plays at Albion College on Tuesday and hopes to continue to play tough and improve on its record. 

The Student Government Gender Issues Committee Presents 
KF MEN CAN Do liT WHY CAN7T WOMEN?g 
A PANEL DISCUSSION ON THE ORDINATION OF WOMEN IN THE CATHOLIC CHURCH 
An opportunity for students, faculty and staffto address one ofthe most controversial issues facing Catholicism todr;y. 
When:  December 3, 8:00 PM  
Where:  Hesburgh Auditorium  
Hesburgh Library  

Rt/rtsllments will bt Strotd 
By MIKE WISE Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Charles Oakley, who often walks a fine line between com-' peting hard and playing the role of a hockey goon, has apparently crossed over it again. His rambunctious behavior in the New York Knicks' victory over the Vancouver Grizzlies on Sunday resulted in a one-game suspen­sion and a $7,500 fine on Monday by the National Basketball Association. 
The Knicks' power forward will miss the team's next game, on Friday against the Pistons in Detroit, for hitting the Grizzlies' Otis Thorpe in the face during the 104-84 blowout Sunday. 
Thorpe was fined $3,500 for throwing an elbow after Oakley fouled him hard under the bas­ket with 11 minutes 6 seconds left in the game. 
"If you hit someone in the face, with the heel of your hand or a slap or a fist, you're going to get suspended," said Rod Thorn, the league's senior vice president of basketball opera­tions. "He definitely hit him. He initiated the altercation with the flagrant foul. Thorpe then retaliated with an elbow to his chest and then Oakley hit him in the face." 
Oakley was thrown out of the game for committing what is called a punching foul. He is scheduled to return Saturday for the Knicks' game against the Phoenix Suns at Madison Square Garden. 
The Knicks may also be with­out Larry Johnson for the game against the Pistons. The start­ing small forward sprained his right ankle when he stepped on Thorpe's foot after scoring on a spinning layup inside, less than two minutes after Oakley was ejected. Though X-rays were negative, Johnson is listed as day to day. 
So instead of embarking on a four-day layoff over the Thanksgiving holiday on an almost perfect note, the Knicks must regroup. 
"They're both big parts of this team, but that's why we went out and acquired all this depth," Patrick Ewing said. "Now, due to injury or whatev­er, we know we_ have people to step in, pick up the slack and get the job done." 
Johnson called his ankle sprain one of the more painful he has had during his career. 
"I have felt turns before, but this one felt bad," he said. "Luckily, the X-rays were neg­ative. We've got a deep team so I'm not that worried. I'll be back." 
If the Knicks have to go into Friday night's game without both of their starting forwards, Van Gundy will most likely start Chris Mills in place of Johnson and either Chris Dudley or Buck Williams in place of Oakley. 
The suspension. was Oakley's third in three seasons. In 1995 and 1996, he was suspended for fighting in the preseason. He threw a punch at Philadelphia's Scott Williams in 1995, an infraction that cost him the opener at Detroit and $6,000. He was suspended for two games last season and fined $10,000 for throwing Charles Barkley to the floor. 
The Knicks -particularly Coach Jeff Van Gundy -have been supportive of Oakley's roughhouse play, almost to the point of condaning the violence as a means of self-defense. It has not endeared them to the league office, but then, nothing Oakley does on the floor seems to make a good impression on the NBA. 
"I would disagree with the foul being flagrant and him ini­tiating the altercation, in my mind," Van Gundy said on Monday. "I was surprised, but I wasn't surprised. I feel badly for Charles. There's a resent­...... ment for guys who compete hard every night." 
After the game, Oakley said: "I play hard every night and some guys don't like to play physical every night and that is my game. I'm not going to lower my game because the next guy is soft." 
The victory over the Grizzlies was the Knicks' sixth in seven games, and it was the seventh game they have won by 20 points or more. Since knocking off the previously unbeaten Atlanta Hawks last Thursday, the Knicks have won three con­secutive games in convincing fashion. 
Their blowout of the Grizzlies, in which they made the extra pass and clamped down on defense in the second half, was indicative of how everything has bee ...n clicking. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
-

. 
~~--,_._ The Notre Dame African Students' Association & the Center for Social Concerns ~F-!!!111. •Til!!!•.--~
0 
proud/1' present: s o c r A L 
'.)' CONCERNS 
.... ~~.~!~:-...."ALLAH TANTOU, i.e., GOD'S WILL 
1991-62 min. A film by David Achkar (Guinea) "Wrenching as well as cathartic; It required a special kind of courage to make this film." -The Philadelphia Inquirer Followed by Discussions on: 
"Power Sharing Vs. Human Ri hts Abuses" 
Allah Tantou is the first African film to confront the immense personal and political costs ofAfrica's human rights abuses. Using home movies and letters written by his father in prison, as well as newsreels and dramatization, David Achkar reconstructs his father's life which closely parallels the rise and fall ofAfrica's own hopes for independence. Marof Achkar became a prominent figure in Sekou Toure's post-colonial government, Guinea's United Nations' ambassador and an articulate international spokesman for African causes. Recalled to Conakry in 1968, he was imprisoned and secretly executed in 1971. His family was expelled from Guinea and was only notified on his demise after Sekou Toure's death in 1984. Now, Allah Tantou, a son's moving tribute to his father, takes its place as part ofcontemporary Africa's painful reap­praisal of its past and the unfolding debate about its future. · 
Wednesday, December 3 • 7:00pm • 155 DeBartolo • Admission Free • 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
Other Events: Black History Month Celebration: New films: Jan. 21 & 28; Feb. 4, 11, 18, & 25; March 18 & 25 11th ANNUAL ALL AFRICAN STUDENTS CONFERENCE, May 8-10, University of Notre Dame: "Africa & Mrican Peoples in the 21st Century: The Second Struggle for Independence." Look for the call for papers very soon. 

©eiNTERRACE©e 
Wednesday, December 3, 1997 @ the CSC From 5:30 to 7:00 pm 
-

page 14 
Final Four 
continued from page 20 
"We were very good in the attacking third of the field." 
After Heft's knockout punch, five other Irish players got in on the scoring action. Gerardo made it 4-0 with a header off a Manthei cross, and Shannon Boxx found the back of the net at 53:56. Kara Brown scored from the right wing at 66:17, Anne Makinen added a goal on a breakaway, and Monica Gonzalez closed out the scor­ing after stripping the ball from a UCLA defender inside the box. 
The Irish defense dominated once again, as keeper LaKeysia Beene faced just four shots on goal en route to her 18th shutout of the season. 
"(The play of the back line)
..... 
is really important because we settle everybody down," said sophomore defender Jen Grubb. "We play best when we're composed and calm, and we can knock it around." 
1tWith the drubbing of UCLA, Notre Dame (23-0-1) picked up its 17th straight win, and earned its fourth consecutive trip to the Final Four: 
"It's exciting to go back to a great event, to be involved in it. to know that you're one of four teams left playing," said Petrucelli. 
The Irish square off against Connecticut in Friday's semifi­nal game -the third meeting for the two teams this year. 
"It's good to come in and play a game like (the UCLA game) to get some momen­tum," said Grubb. 
"We're playing really well at this point," said Heft. "We're working together well, and also getting along as a team. Going into the Final Four, that's definitely a positive." 
For Notre Dame, only one 
more thing needs finishing ­
its quest for a second national 
title in three years. 
Weekly Specials 
-
II 
' 
The Observer • SPORTS 
The Observer/John Daily 
LaKeysia Beene earned her 18th shutout of the season against UCLA. 

• WoMeN'sSoccetr
Irish <,.......,·.,··-"........ 
were 
LaKeysla 
defender Jen 
defender Kate .. 
man midfieltJer ·..· A]lne Makinen and senior midfield­or Holly Manthei ~ophomore forward Jenny Str(iiff.:lr was a second-team pick, 'YhHe freshman forward Me.otis Erikson was ,namedJd the 
MEN IN BLACK 
1f)hJ-alte ~? 1fJWu~~? 


?7-t. fli-~· e.s.e. ?7-t. '8itt U'ad. e.s.e. 
'?(Jif. IH6U ~tUt tk ~4 ~ ~-~ ~~etUttad ~ s~ • ?twu Z'....u:. 1~ 46556 
{219) 631-63%5 • M:tp://-.d.edu/-~ 
-
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 
seven spots 
teams 
team. 
of. the J l players 
· the .first team came 
otre. Dame. The Irish 
· teams with seven 
willie Minnesota. was 
five and Northern 
and Michigan each had three. Notre Dame is 60· 0-2 against current members of the Great Lakes Region since the 1991 season. The all·region selections are now eligible for all-America hon· ors, which will he announced next week at the NCAA semi· finals and final. 
Grubb, Sobrero, Manthei and Streiffer were all­America selections in 1996. 
Tuesday, December 2, 1997 

The Observer/John Daily 
North Carolina 
The Irish hope their powerful offense will make easy work of Connecticut. 
CA.RRlf SCHROEDER OfiMA G GlRLFREN! 
It's Yo HaPPY 21st 

Love.
Birthday! The Nerd Herd 
$ $  Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies  $ $  
$ $ $  :~·tn s:l.,[~~-~~~~~-"~-~-~-~-~-~ -~---~  -­ - -­ $ $ $  
$  FOR MORE INFORMATION, COME TO A MEETING:  $  
$  WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3  $  
$  s:oo  $  
$  DEBARTOLO I 20  $  
$  $  
$  For further information, contact:  $  
$ $  Professor Michael Francis I-5203 (Hurley I IO)  $ $  

1$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
------~~­
Tuesday, December 2, 1997 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
-
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 






OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
TODAY-Tuesday, December 2, Sign-up Deadline Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library. 
Upon This Rock Retreat 
(Friday-Saturday, December 5-6) A Catholic retreat for those who seek to prepare for the coming of Christ. 
Tuesday, December 2, 7:00pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Interfaith Catnpus Bible Study 
Come and share insights on the 12th and 13th chapters of Mark's Gospel. After the meeting there will be a period of Fellowship. All are welcome. 
Sunday, December 7, 4:00pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Presider: Rev. D. Reginald Whitt, OP Reflection: Chandra Johnson, Campus Ministry All Are Welcome! 
Sunday, December 7, 7:00 p.m. -Washington Hall 
Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Concert 
Sunday, December 7, 7:15pm, Basilica 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
Monday, December 8, 9:00-10:00 p.m., Foster Room, 3rd Floor, LaFortune 
"Speak Out"-African Atnerican Cotnmunity in Conversation ­
Topic: "Moving Forward: Tell Us What You Want!" 
Monday-Friday, December 8-12, 103 Hesburgh library 
Sign-up: NDE Retreat #49 (Jan. 31-Feb. 2) 
Tuesday, December 9, 10:00 p.m., Basilica 
Advent Penance Service 
Deacon Tom Doyle, C.S.C. presiding and preaching. 
Freshtnan Retreat 
.II....
Freshmen of Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Howard, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin... Mark your calendars now: Freshman Retreat #14 is . J 23-24 F.Ina11 •t' turn"'"""' ......... . 
coming anuary . y, I s your 
l_ ­
page 16 
-V-ball 
continued from page 20 
matches. 
The next evening, the Irish attempted to rebound against No. 1 Long Beach State. Despite a strong effort in the second game, the 49ers dis­patched the team in three games, 15-3, 15-13, 15-5. 
LBSU claimed the first game behind a tremendous offensive strike and a .444 team hitting percentage. Lee had seven kills in the first game, but the other Irish players tallied eight kills and as many errors. In the second game, Harris served three straight points to take a quick 4-1 lead. The team capitalized off the 49ers' errors, and extended its lead to 7-4 before three straight points from Benishe Dillard tied it at seven apiece. 
Notre Dame took another slim lead, only to have it wiped away by three more points from the 49ers. After the Irish responded with a kill from Harris, LBSU went on a run of its own. Down 10-13, Lee stepped up again and served three straight points. However, LBSU setter Misty May stopped the Irish rally, while Harris hit wide for the final point. 
Notre Dame was led again by Lee, who had 13 kills on the match. Harris had nine kills but also 11 errors on 33 attempts. Leffers and Treadwell rounded out the Irish offense with seven kills each. With the weekend, the 49ers improved to 30-1 on the season and extend their win­ning streak to 21 matches. The Irish dropped to 23-8 to close out their regular season. 
·. 
"I think at times during both matches we played very well," head coach Debbie Brown said. "We were hoping to win one of the matches, but we weren't able to string enough points together." 
Despite a fantastic record over the latter half of the sea­son and an experienced start­ing lineup, ranked opponents have proven to be difficult foes for the Irish. All eight of the team's losses this season have come at the hands of ranked teams. Since 1995, Notre Dame had notched a 3-24 record against top 25 oppo­nents, its last win being Sept. 24, 1995, over then-No. 15 Colorado. 
"I think we have played two of the toughest teams in the country this weekend," Brown said about their troubles against ranked opponents. "As the season went on, we improved quite a bit. I don't think it's a psychological level that we get ourselves into. This year, it's simply a matter that we've played a very tough schedule." 
On Sunday, pairings were announced for the NCAA tour­nament to be held during the first three weeks of December. In the first round, Notre Dame, having received an automatic bid by winning the Big East tournament, will travel to the University of Arkansas to face off against the Liberty Flames. Liberty (26-8), making its first appear­ance in the NCAAs, earned an automatic bid after winning the Big South Conference. Arkansas, the host team for the sub-regional, will host Arkansas Little-Rock in the first round, with the winner facing either the Irish or the Flames. 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Love, Mom, Dad, Laura and Michelle 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 2, 1997 


Completed Applications must be submitted by February 13, 1998. 
For more information, call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
Tuesday, December 2, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
-
McMillen leads Irish in double-OT victory 
By JOE CAVATO McMillen had plenty of help we need to get off to a good Assistant Sporrs Editor in Notre Dame's 86-75 win at start." UC-Santa Barbara as three of McMillen is definitely off to a 
With the most difficult stretch her teammates also scored in good start as she picked up at of the schedule waiting for the double figures. Junior guard Pauley Pavilion what she start­women's basketball team after Danielle Green shot a tremen-ed in Santa Barbara. At the Thanksgiving break, head dous 60 percent from the field Pavilion, the basket looked coach Muffet McGraw got for a career-high 19 points. extra large to McMillen as she exactly what she wanted from Also scoring a career high was was nine-of-13 from the field her team in its two-game road sophomore guard Niele Ivey including six-of-seven from trip to California. who added 10 points. three point country to tie the 
The Irish responded to their Senior captain Mollie Peirick school record for three-pointers 18-point loss to then-No. 19 sparked her squad in the sec-made in a game. Duke with wins over UC-Santa ond half as all 14 of her points With the graduation of two Barbara and UCLA. improving came in the second stanza, 2,000 points scorers, Beth their record to 3-1. enabling the Irish to put away Morgan and Katryna Gaither, 
"I was pleased with our effort the Gauchos. McGraw was in need of a scor­and the way we came back "Mollie got us off to a quick er, and McMillen has accepted after our loss to Duke," start in the second half and we that role. McGraw said after the win over had great contributions from "I think that's a role that Santa Barbara. everyone coming off the Coach kind of had laid out for 
tied a school record for the
.Junior guard and co-captain bench," McGraw explained. me," McMillen explained. ''I'm highest free-throw percentageSheila McMillen has accepted After a dismal performance at comfortable with that role, but in a game.
her new role as a scorer as she the free throw line at Duke, it it's kind of an adjustment from Against UCLA, Green had herpoured in 23 points at Santa was obvious where McGraw the last two years just being a 
second-straight 19-point per-
Barbara and a career high 29 had her team during the week's role player. But I'm trying to formance and Peirick added 10in a thrilling double-overtime preparation for the road trip. get accustomed to it." 
points, all of which came in thewin over UCLA. The Irish connected on 18 of 22 Freshman forward Kelley second half. Peirick also added
"They were really big wins attempts from the line as Siemon lived at the charity 
11 assists, just one shy of herfor us, especially after the Duke McMillen led the way on 11 of stripe as she hit all 12 of her career best.
loss," McMillen said. "I think 13 at the charity stripe. attempts on her way to. a 
The double-overtime game
we learned a lot from the loss "This was a good win for us," career-high 20 points. Before was a battle from the beginning and we learned a lot from the McGraw said. "We're beginning Sunday's win Siemon was just as there were 19 ties, 19 leadpast two games in California." an extremely tough stretch so 52.6 percent at the line, but she 
changes and the teams were 
MANAGEMENT CONSULTING OPPORTUNITIES 
They're in touch, in transit and in demand ... on-site, on-line and on-the-move ... improving businesses, envisioning future technologies and driving change ... thinking outside the box, designing solutions and delivering value to customers. 
They're Ernst & Young Management Consultants, and they're going places-making a global impact in one of the most dynam­ic fields of the 90~ and beyond. 
As an Ernst & Young Management Consultant, you'll help companies from Fortune 1,000 giants to Silicon Valley stan-ups explore new strategies, methods, markets and technologies -long before others are even aware they exist. 

knotted at 28 at the half. 
"We didn't give up," McMillen 
said. "A young team could have 
easily given up, but we stayed ­
composed and we stuck with 
them and fortunately we came 
out on top." 
The Bruins' Melanie Pearson 
came off the bench for a 
career-high 30 points. Four 
other UCLA players scored in 
double figures. UCLA got off to 
a quick start and had its second 
12-point lead with just under 
10 minutes left in the first half, 
but the Irish used a 1 7-3 run to 
get back in the contest. 
In the final seconds of the 
game, Siemon put Notre Dame 
up by three with two free 
throws, but Pearson hit a 
buzzer-beating three pointer 
forcing an overtime. 
In the second overtime, UCLA 
had a chance to win the game 
but Marie Philman's shot fell 
short and Notre Dame won for 
the first time ever at the Pauley 
Pavilion. 
"I think we still have a lot of 
improving to do as a team," 
McMillen explained. "But we 
definitely did improve this 
weekend." 
Notre Dame will jump into 
Big East play in games against 
the teams predicted to win their 
respective divisions, Rutgers 
and Connecticut, before contin­
uing its challenging out-of-con­
ference schedule with national 
powers Wisconsin and Purdue. 
Since 1921 
1 CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
1 
Winner of The Reader's Digest 1 LaokSmarl Editor's Choice Award _I 
Of equal importance, while you're learning and achieving, we'll put all the strength ofour industry-leading organization behind your own career development. With 12,500 Management Consultants delivering ideas and solutions from 89 offices worldwide, we provide an unparalleled world of resources and the opportunity to grow and learn with a proven leader in today's business. 
MEET WITH ERNST & YOUNG ON CA.MPUS 
University of Notre Dame 
• Intem Presentation, 12/3, 7PM, LaFortune Center, Foster Room 
• Summer Job Fair, 1/22/98 , Center for Continuing Education 
• Interviews for lntem Positions, 1/29/98 
To arrange for a one-on-one interview or for more information, please contact: Catherine Romanek, Campus Recruiter, Ernst & Young LLP, 233 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL 60606; fax: (312) 879~3671; or E~mail: catherine.romanek@ey.com. Please visit our web site at: http://www.ey.com. No phone calls please. 
THERE IsN'TABusiNEss WE CAN'T IMPROVE TM 
Ernst & Ytmng LU~ an equal ojJplfftunity t'111jJlllyn; 
4 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 
E!/ERNST&YOUNG LLP
valws the divmity ofour wtnkjiJTa and the knowlnlge of tmr pmpll'. 
277-7946 


-------------------~----­
Tuesday, December 2, 1997
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
• HOCKEY 
Irish unable to win over Lake Superior State 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's hock­ey team didn't have much to be thankful for after a loss and a tie to Lake Superior State this past weekend. 
"We're still optimistic," mused junior forward Aniket Dhadphale, who continued his romp with another excellent weekend. "We're just stuck in a little rut. But we are working very hard, and we'll get out of it." 
On Friday night at the Joyce Center, the Irish fell to the Lakers 4-2. They came back on Saturday evening and earned a 3-3 tie. With those results, Notre Dame remained
-in eighth place in the CCHA. The Lakers controlled play early on Friday evening, out­shooting the Irish 10-5. But senior goaltender Matt Eisler's stellar play kept the Lakers at bay, and the Boys of Winter quickly tallied two goals in the second period to grab a seem­ingly insurmountable 2-0 advantage. At the 6:07 mark of the sec­ond period, sophomore defenseman Tyson Fraser tal­lied his first goal of the season on a power play. He took a pass at the top of the right cir­cle from a falling Dhadphale and snapped a wrist shot over Lakers' goaltender Bob Galatiuk. Just six minutes later, Fraser's classmate and fellow defenseman Nate Borega notched his first goal of the season on a wrist shot from the top of the left circle. Freshman Matt Van Arkel set up the play, picking up a rebound from a Tyson-Fraser shot, circling the net, and finding Borega near the circle. But the Lakers came roaring back. Just 44 seconds later, 
Lakers' senior Terry Marchant 
_answered Borega's goal by set­ting up linemate Mike Vigilante, who one-timed a shot past Eisler. The teams entered the third period with the Irish protecting a 2-1 lead, but things fell apart fast. ''I'm not sure why the third period has given us trouble sometimes," said Dhadphale. "We've had good ones and bad ones. When the other team scores it takes the wind out of us and gives them the advan­tage." Thirty-two seconds into the third period, the game was tied, as a Laker slapshot on the power play passed Eisler. The Irish were unable to muster any kind of offense against the Lakers, who continued to hound Notre Dame. The Lakers scored again at the 5:15 mark to grab a 3-2 lead that they would never relinquish. Lake Superior State iced the victory at the 17:17 mark of thP, third. "For us, the last 20 minutes is a mental thing," lamented head coach Dave Poulin. "If we weren't capable it would be one thing, but we can play well when we want to. This will be the hardest thing in turning around this season." The Irish rebounded on Saturday night in a tough game against Lake Superior State. The Irish controlled the game for a majority of the first period but fell behind 1-0 when Laker senior Terry Merchant slid the puck through Irish goalie Forrest Karr's legs at the 17:55 mark on a power play. Midway through the second period, they extended their lead over the Boys of Winter to 2-0 when Karr was beat on a one-timer just outside the crease. Late in the second period, 

The ObseiVer/Joe Stark 
The Irish dropped their first game against the Lakers 4-2, but were able to tie them on Saturday, 3-3. 
Dhadphale began the Irish comeback with a slapshot from the slot that found the back of the net. 
At 6:01 of the third period, Dhadphale struck again, knot­ting the game at two and earn­ing his team-leading lOth goal of the season. The Irish then scored their third unanswered goal at 9:18 of the third period when junior Brian Urick deflected a Benoit Cotnoir shot up over Galatiuk's shoulder. 
"We had a good third period on Saturday night," stated Dhadphale, "but it had to be better." 
Notre Dame retained its lead until two minutes were left in the game, at which time the Laker Jim Sessa put the puck just past Karr's right pad for the tying goal. The Irish had a plethora of chances to win the game, including a power play during the final 1 :04 of regula­tion and the first 0:56 of over­time, but couldn't finish it. 
"Our power play definitely 
could have been better," said 
Dhadphale about his team's 0-9 

power play performance. our special teams." 
"Some of our passing is also off, Notre Dame falls to 6-6-2 and 
but mostly we have to work on is winless in its last four games. 
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m 
SPRING BREAKI 
• SUPER·~~. ~ 
CANCUN 
BAYFRONT ~'J... m 
4, 6, 8 OR 10 PERSONS ·~ '519 ONLY 5 LEFT1 1!1 CALINDA BEACH stlrlft '629#t swoENT 
4 PERSONS U_.D\7 HOTEL! 
2 OR 3 PERSONS JUST $699 each! ~ 
MAZATLAN -~~ ·~ •419 c:r~EHEART 
1997 
IN CREATING SPORTS1/2PAGE, NIKE MAKES EVERY EFFORT TO BE ACCURATE WE REGRET ANY ERRORS. IF YOUR TEAM WASN'T COVERED, LET YOUR NIKE STUDENl REP KNOW AND WE'LL TRY NEXT ISSUE 
n

---o---~---o---o-----e--­

2 3 4 
5 
6 
WON'TFifON-STH ... : WOMEN'S SWIMMING ' AND DIVINGN 
j NOTRE D-AME INVITATIONAL 
j ROLFS AQUATIC (ENTER
L____ 630 PM__ ­
7 
8 
WOMEN'S 8ASKETBALL/VWOMEN'S SOCCERN 
AT WISCONSINAT NCAA FiNALS 
7:00PM
EQUESTRIAN 
(STOCK SEAT)/C 
AT WISCONSINAT UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
7 00 PM 
14 
MEN'S BASKETBALL/V 
VS. DREXEL JACC 
2:00 FM Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. Sports1/2Page tracks upcoming sports and NIKE events at Notre Dame. Email me at colleen.henshaw@nike.com with events, athletes or teams you think deserve a mention. If you tried to reach NIKE but couldn't, try sports.halfpage@nike.com ... Don't let the stress of upcoming finals get you down I Take your frustrations out on a treadmill or stairmaster or in a pick-up hoops game at the Rock. You never know when I'll be by with incentives to make the com­petition a little more fierce! ... This summer, spend 10 weeks contributing to the #1 name in sports through NIKE Internship '98. For more information, call NIKE at (800) 890-6453 or go to info.nike.com. 
0 WOMEN'S BASKETBALLN MEN'S AND WOMEN'S 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S ICE HOCKEYNWOMEN'S SoCCERN 
II AT RUTGERS SWIMMING AND DtVINGN 
VS. WESTERN MICHIGANAT NCAA SEMI-FINALS 
SWIMMING AND DtVINGN 
n
-lCii-trocmN

JACC. 7 00 PM
7 30 PM NOTRE 0AME INVITATIONAL 
MEN'S SWIMMING AND 
NOTRE DAME INVITATIONAL 
..0 
AT WESTERN MICHIGAN MEN'S 8ASKETBALL/V ROLFS AQUATIC (ENTER ROLFS AOUATiC (ENTER MEN'S BASKETBALLN
DIVINGN 
ID 
1000 AM AT PITTSBURGH 7:30PM 
7:00PM AT INDIANA 10:00 AM NOTRE DAME INVITATIONAL 
n..
4:00PM
ROLF AQUATIC (ENTER 
WOMEN'S 8ASKETBALL/V 
ID 
vs. UCONN 
Ill-· 10:00AM 
....
JACC, NOON 
0
9 10 11 
:l Ill 
12 
13 
MEN'S BASKETBALLN WOMEN'S BASKETBALL!V 
ICE HocKEY/V WOMEN'S BASKETBALLN 
VS. MARATHON (EXHIBITION) VS. PURDUE vs. WiSCONSIN 
vs. SOUTH FLORJOA JACC JACC. 7:00PM 
JACC 
JACC 7:30PM 
<
7:00PM
ICE HOCKEYN 
2:00PM 

II 
< 
.. 
Ill
DOING IT 
Ill 
Every morning Lucas Mol'lna wakes 
.... 
'<
up at 6:00AM to swim 3/4 of a mile. 
......
Next, he heads to the gym to work 
n 
on his boxing 'skills. But that's just his 
II 
a.m. routine: When the senior n 
c
Government and Sociology major finishes classes, he runs six 
c-
miles. And that doesn't count training with the Notre Dame Club Boxing team. As this team co-captain knows, success in 
II 
the ring takes hard work and discipline. Right now, Lucas is 
:l channeling his efforts into besting his second-place finish at last ....
.. 
Ill
year's Bengal Bouts. Then, he'll head to Odessa, Texas, to rejoin 
3
his U.S.A. Boxing Club, the Twin Cities Tigers. Finding time for 
..c 
all that training not to mention studying is a challenge, says 
Ill Lucas. "But when you love what you do, it's easy." Jason Matthew Malartsik and Pat Paquette 

THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTS712PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY. INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP 
fuesday, December 2, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAN SULLIVAN
ABOUT CAMPUS 
f{EY Look OT1o! I 
fiNALLY SIJVE"b Uf' 
EA/OUCiH MILES 1° 
C£T /illS' C((jAI?.EHE CASE. 
t>.NA.LOGY POLICE 
en 

E 
0 
" oi 
'5 
Cl> 
E 
"tJ 
~ 
·;: 
:I
;::
:=
:= 
~ 
Vj 
f'l\'{ 
BOSS St\ID r wA.s 
A.5 II'\POf\TANT A':J A. MINK IS TO A. MINK COf:o..T. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: You are faced with a day of hard work whose rewards are not immediately apparent. Be patient and diligent. At the same time, stay in touch with the rest of your life, which will outlast the project at hand. 
Taurus: Sort out your priorities and achieve your short term goals. This is the day to start planning ahead. The future is coming no matter what you do, so you might as well be prepared. 
Gemini: You feel less than normal today, substandard if not exactly subhuman. Unless you're able to stuff that self-image back under its rock, it will show on your face. Try 
to remain inconspicuous. Cancer: Your partner may not have a lot of time for you today. Everyone seems to be unusually busy. Take advantage of the indus­trious mood and use this quiet time to your advantage. 
Leo: Today's big issues are work, career, or status. Being informative and helpful to others will look very good on your review or your resume. Gauge your performance by the quality of the responses you get. 
FULL FIFTEEN 
, ~
THI\T SOUNDS 
them. Romance gets an extra boost. 
PERCENT TIP. 
Virgo: Your day promises to be fun,
u 
5UT
.: 
l C,UES S YOU 
with a kind of efficient poetry in 
THE.
~ 
everything you do. Children wor­
WON'T 5E
u 
:;; 
ship the ground under your feet when you share your magic with 
MINK LEt\VING f>.. 
"' ~ DIES. 
Libra: Minor repairs around the home threaten to become major issues today. Powerful memories interfere with your usual efficiency. Being overly sentimental is bad for business. 
Scorpio: You will probably get the right answer today. but it is based entirely on whether you ask the right qu~stion. Employers and pow­erful clients are in a good mood. Something that was stalled moves forward. 
Sagittarius: Ambition continues as your driving force. You have no dif­ficulty staying focused on the things that interest you. The results of your labor begin to appear. 
Capricorn: The Moon is still in Capricorn, the house of business and authority, giving you the Midas touch today. Make proposals and ask for raises without fear. Any project management style you use will be the right one. 
Aquarius: Someone has been in your face a little too much lately, and you would like a break from it all. Work alone today as much as possible. A quiet day provides you with the refreshment you sorely need. 
Pisces: Expect some interaction across the lines of class and power. People connect with each other despite differences of money or background. Be prepared to partic­ipate in a group decision today. 
..... 
.... 
ACROSS 
1 Like fine wine 
5 Revival shouts 10 Impertinent one 14 Where the 
Vatican is 15 Newspapers, 
TV, etc. 16 Actress Petty 17 Suffix with 
psych-or neur­18 Like a snake-oil salesman 19 Components of elevens 20 Aristocratic types 23 Berlioz's "Les nuitsd'-" 24 Contained, with 
"up" 25 Packs down 28 Isn't feeling 
good 29 Dolt 
31 Brink 
33 Conquistador's 
haul 34 Eor G. e.g. 35 Self-righteously 
virtuous types 40Work unit 41 Start of many 
naval vessel names 42 Subject to breezes 
43 Phrase in a new way, as a question 
46 Throw hard 
48 Farm mudholes 
49 Salespeople, 
informally so Sheepish reply 53 Pompous types 57 Deep laugh 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

\ 
SCOTT ADAMS 

Come Join Our Team! 
RecSports is now hiring students to serve as Control De~~~~E~zyisors and Fitness Room Supervisors in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Cente~~""lniei~~ted "~tfidents should stop by the RecSports office, located in the Joyce Center, and fill out an application. 
The rJ?.!cSports staffwoura fi'R,s to wisli the students, staff 
For More Info. Contact:
andfacu[ty ofthe Vniversity a liappy, liea[thy andsafe 
RecSports -1-61 00
liofi'day season. 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 

Football 
1997 
Trouble 
Notre Dame 
• 
23 Ill Hawaii 
Paradise
22 


SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, December 2, 1997 

• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
.. 
The Observer/John Daily 
Monica Gerardo burns by a defender in recent action. She has been a major contributor this season. 
Irish reach Final 4 
Notre Dame crushes UCLA 8-0 in quest for national championship 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
In the quarterfinal round of the NCAA tour­nament, the Notre Dame women's soccer team wasn't as concerned with its opponent, 16th­ranked UCLA, as it was with taking an early lead by capitalizing on its early chances. 
The Irish did just that, downing the Bruins 8-0 on Saturday afternoon at Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame scored its first goal at 1:29, as senior midfielder Holly Manthei blasted a shot from the top of the box that slipped out of Bruin goalie Lindsay Culp's hands onto the foot of sophomore Jenny Heft, who knocked it in for the first of her three goals on the day. 
"The last couple games we actually gave up a goal and gave up the first chance of the game," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We wanted to come out and really take the game over early." 
Heft, starting for the injured Jenny Streiffer, recorded her second hat trick in NCAA tourna­ment play, to join Mia llamm as the only play­ers in championship history to score hat tricks in two NCAA games. 
"Jenny (Heft} has had a great year," said Petrucelli. "She's been able to score goals all year long." 
Freshman Meotis Erikson fed Heft the ball at 
22:38 for her second goal, giving Notre Dame a 2-0 lead at the half. 
In the second half, the Irish came out even stronger, pounding the UCLA goaltender with 11 shots and three goals in the first nine min­utes. Heft opened the scoring with her third goal on as many shots, firing home the rebound off a Monica Gerardo shot that hit the crossbar. 
"You definitely have to be paying attention to the game, making the right runs at the right time and then looking to finish it," said Heft. 
"I think the big key for us, especially in the second half. was that when we got those chances, we finished them," said Petrucelli. 
see FINAL FOUR I page 14 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Irish falter against ranked opponents 

By BILL HART Spores Writer 
While the Notre Dame vol­leyball team has continued to improve throughout the sea­son, ranked opponents have been an Achilles heel for the Irish. Having gone 0-6 this season against top 25 teams, Notre Dame desperately needed a win to build momentum going into the NCAA tournament. However, two of the top five teams in the nation proved to be up to the task of thwarting the Irish offense . 
The team began its diflicult weekend stretch on Friday against fifth-ranked UC-Santa Barbara. Despite a strong second game by the Irish. UCSB prevailed in four games by a score of 15-8, 15-10, 8­15, 15-7. 
After losing a quick first game, Notre Dame regained its composure and fought the Gauchos hard in the second. The game was tied 8-8 before UCSB scored seven of the last nine points to take a 2-0 lead on the match. 
Facing elimination from the match, the Irish took the third game behind seven kills from senior hitter Jaimie Lee. The team jumped out to a 14-4 lead before a kill from sopho­more blocker Mary Leffers won the game for the Irish. However, the Gauchos gained their second wind and took the final game quickly. 
The Irisli. were led by Lee, who scored a team-best 25 kills. Leffers, in one of the best matches in her career, tallied a career-best 21 kills on .444 hitting. Senior Angie Harris and junior Lindsay Treadwell also contributed to the Irish cause, adding 18 and 11 kills respectively. Early into the match. Harris set a career milestone as she scored her 1.500th career kill. 
Despite holding an edge in hitting and blocking, UC­Santa Barbara was held to two aces during the match, compared to Notre Dame's six. The Gauchos were led by junior Katie Crawford, who tallied a career-high 33 kills against the Irish. Teammate Heather Brown scored 20 kills on .500 hitting. With the win, UCSB improves to 29-4 on the season. The loss ended Notre Dame's 10­match winning streak, which extended back to Oct. 22, and was its second loss in 19 
see V-BALL I page 16 
.... .. 
·-··~· 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
Senior Angie Harris recorded her 1,500th career kill this weekend. 

at Western Michigan, 
• Women's Basketball at Rutgers, 
tf.-~ a) •Hockey can't win against Lakers 
~ 
• 
December 3, 7:30p.m. 
; ,.. December 5, 7 a.m. 
~ 
see page 18
Men's Basketball at Indiana, 
at NCM Semifinals,
fi/1 '· ...... 
• 
December 3, 7:30 p.m. 
\~ December 5, 3:30 p.m. 
riJ • Woman's basketball beats UCSB 
Swimming, 
Basketball, 
see page 17
Notre Dame Invitational, 
SMC Roundball Classic, 
S:tt
December 4, 10 a.m. December 5 
~ 






