r--~-------------------~----~ ---~ 
--------~ -----~--------------.. 

Wednesday, January 22, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 74 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SnmENT GOVERNMENT ANALYSIS 
As term closes, Miller's team connects on aims 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT EVALUATION 

LEADERSHIP/INITIATIVE-
Administration has both ahigh level of 
activity & alack of constituent unity. No 
improvement on controversial issues. 
CAMPAIGN PROMISES-
Miller/Murray set attainable goals. From
[}"student section" to debit cards, progress has been made or the wheels are turning. 
COMMUNICATION-The officers' promise to "connect you" has been limited.
[]] Organization and focus have been unclear, signaling PR shortcomings. 
!3 
CLC PROGRESS-Despite Council bickering and asplit between students and non-students, the CLC has effectively 
addressed most agenda issues this year. 
[!.] 
STUDENT SENATE-Effectivelyadvanced student rights issues, but hasn't addressed majority of student concerns. Over-reliance on subcommittees and set constitutional procedure haven't helped. 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 

But contact between officials needs attention; CLC, Student Senate are stagnant 
By DEREK BETCHER MATTHEW LOUGHRAN and RUSSELL WILLIAMS Assistant News Editors 
Student Body President Seth Miller, Vice-President Megan Murray, Chief of Staff Brendan Kelly, and Secretary Stacey McNulty have been hard at work all year to fullill the campaign promises made last February. 
Miller and Murray campaigned on the premise that they would be "realistic and ready" and would "research" their goals. Whether or not this has translated to effective policy initiatives and deft han­dling of all the major issues faced by stu­dent government is debatable. 
The 1996-97 executives, self-titled as "Team Connection," led a term charac­terized by progress towards Miller and Murray's campaign promises. They actively spearheaded some campaigns, like expanding the football ticket exchange, while the nature of other issues -like the location of the student section in the renovated Notre Dame 

mittee was created to 
interact with the provost's 'sure, student govern­office; and a reform com­
mittee was created to
ment has its limitations. 
explore ways student gov­
But it has its possibilities, ernment can reform and too.' Seth Miller improve itself. 
Student Senate is a 

Stadium -has limited their role to sim­ply offering encouragement or advice to the University. 
Acknowledging the distinction between progress and results, Miller said, "Do you have a debit card? No. But the wheels are turning faster now." Notre Dame has chosen vendors, and the project will begin next fall. 
"Many of the things we do are more subtle and more long term and students don't always see what they are," said Murray. 
A nine-person financial aid department with a newsletter and peer counselors is being implemented; the new gender relations department is gathering infor­mation; a student-academic council com-


Badin Hall celebrates centennial 
The Observer/Melissa Matheny 
Last night, Father Edward Malloy shared stories from his tenure in Badin Hall. 
Malloy fondly recalls years as Badin resident 
By AMY SCHMIDT News Writer 
A time of joy, of struggle, of formation of close and lasting friendships. 
This is how University President Father Edward Malloy described his resi­dence in Badin Hall during his junior and senior years at Notre Dame. Malloy's "Past as Prologue" address served as what he called a "truthful reminiscence" of his time in Badin, and how those events have shaped the character of the university as it is known today. 
According to Malloy, the "continuity of relationship" that was and is possible in a dorm as small as Badin served as a tremendous bene­fit to many students. 
"Badin is a reminder of how it was the close, intimate, and personal setting of the dorm life that allowed us to prop each other up in many situa­tions," said Malloy. 
Malloy also stated that Badin was the birthplace of 
see MALLOY I page 6 
Dorm originally  
housed school of  
manual labor  
By AMY SCHMIDT  
News Writer  
Many Badin residents may  
be surprised to know that  
their dorm-sweet-dorm has  
not always been a quiet, tra­ 
dition-laden residence hall  
with a convenient location on  
campus.  
In fact, the building that  
now faces both the bookstore  
and South Dining Hall did not  
come to be known as Badin  
Hall until 1917. The original  
Badin Hall began as a struc­ 
ture which housed the  
Manual Labor School-a  
vocational school that trained  
young orphans in the mid­ 
1800s. Famous alumni of the  
Manual Labor School includ­ 
ing Joseph Lyons and John  
Zahm.  
In 1886 the building was  
moved on wheels to its pre­ 
sent location near the book­ 
store basketball courts.  
adin Hall (above},Bformerly  
St. Joseph's  
Industrial  
School,  
named after  
Father Stephen Badin in 1917.  
At that time,  
Badin's ground  
floor was used  
as the campus  
bookstore  
(shown right)  
and cafeteria.  

branch of student govern­ment that should include new ideas for change on its agenda. One of Student Senate's primary functions, as stipulated by the student government constitution, is to formulate and advance the position of the student body on all issues. 
In this regard, the group has succeed­ed in key aspects, but the ride has been bumpy at times. 
Much like the U.S. Senate, the Student Senate consists of members who repre­sent constituencies with different prima­ry interests and expectations from their elected leaders. 
To begin the year, the senate approved the student government fall report to the 
see REPORT/ page 4 
• SECURITY BEAT 

Robberies continue to plague 02 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 
Six more cars were vandal­ized in the D2 parking lot Monday night, increasing the tally to 15 incidents in just three weeks. 
According to Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security, the thefts occurred between midnight and 3 a.m. Stereo equipment was removed from some vehicles, but win­dows were smashed in all six incidents. 
"We believe that two white males, older than college-age, may be involved in these recent thefts," Rakow reported, urging student drivers to remain alert in scanning the parking lots for suspicious people. 
Though he could not confirm any connection between the lat­est break-ins and the nine thefts from the D2 lot over Christmas vacation, Rakow did acknowledge that "we think they are related, and we are looking for patterns." 
The difficulty, he explained, lies in the fact that the latest rash of thefts follows no appar­ent pattern in relation to those in the Fall 1996 semester. "Some were during the day, others at night. Time of day is different. We can't see any trends appearing," he said. 
As Notre Dame Security con­tinues to investigate the inci­dents, Rakow encourages stu­dents with any information to contact security immediately. "We especially want to hear from anyone who might have seen suspects in D2 on Monday night," Rakow specified, "but if someone strange is wandering the lot, call us right away." 

page 2 

One of the chosen few-
We all know the story. 
We know that at 5:52 a.m. Patsy Ramsey called 911 and reported her daughter miss­ing. We heard rumors of a hand-written ran­som note asking the odd amount of $118,000. We listened when a mere -------­
eight hours later her Angela Cataldo father found her body in Saint Mary's Assistant a little-used basement News Editor room that just days before had stored the family's Christmas presents. We watched from our living rooms as the media from not only our own country, but Japan, Australia and England, descended on Boulder and planted themselves outside the Tudor style home. We waited, along with the rest of the world. as the Colorado police began an inten­sive 1 0-day search of the home looking for clues that would solve the murder of JonBenet Ramsey. 
While the entire world seems to mourn the loss of the tiny beauty queen, all I can think is this: what an exceptional child. 
How fortunate to have, at age six, the entire world's attention on your murder. How many six-year-old children in Los Angeles, killed by a stray bullet from a drive-by shooting, have received this kind of attention? What about the child from the south side of Chicago who is killed by a drunk driver who steered his car onto a playground? When was the last time a child from your hometown, abducted mysteri­ously on her way home from a friend's house, made the cover of Newsweek? 
On New Year's Day, the Ramseys pleaded to the CNN audience "for the safety of all chil­dren, we have to find out who did this." One has to wonder if the Ramseys were at all con­cerned with the "safety of all children" before this incident. If they were, wouldn't they have and couldn't they have, used some of their inlluence to help protect other children before this happened? 
What makes JonBenet Ramsey so much more important than the thousands of other American children whose lives are cut short each year? I can't but help consider her fami­ly's wealth, power and ties to the media. These ties seem to be the only difference between JonBenet and the "average" American child who is abducted or murdered every year. 
Sadly, this case is no exception. 
Polly Klaas was the 12-year-old girl abduct­ed from her own bedroom in October of 1993. Once again, the media rallied to this missing child's side, broadcasting her picture on the news within hours of her abduction. Like Jon Benet, she made the cover of news maga­zines and tabloids. Like JonBenet, she came from a family with enough money to use the media to their benefit. The two girls even have their own home pages. 
Imagine the power of having every missing child's photograph bradcast within hours of the abduction. We should challenge the media to help empower the most defenseless members of our society, rather than hand­pick those who will increase audience size. 
I do feel for the Klaas and Ramsey families, but at the same time, I acknowledge the mul­titude of families who do not seem to be able to receive the same action in solving their children's disappearance or murders. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Production Russ Williams Chris Hahn Allison Koenig John Hutchinson 
Sports Accent Kathleen Lopez Joe Weiler Lab Tech Graphics Kevin Dalum Melissa Weber 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
• \I!JomJl AT A GU.~CE 

Violence continues as car bombs kill 18 people in Algiers 


the exact target was unclear. Shops and houses crumbled, balconies col­lapsed and roofs fell on people's heads, witnesses said. 
Hospital sources said 16 people died in the first explosion. Hescuc workers initially said 11 people died and secu­rity forces, who often downgrade casualties in such attacks, said five people were killed. The sources all spoke on condition of anonymity. 
At night, a second bomb exploded near the Martyrs Monument that dom­inates the bay of Algiers. Columns of acrid smoke hid the lighted monu­ment, normally seen throughout the Mediterranean port city. 
The second blast killed two people and injured 10, hospital sources said. Sources close to security forces said 
Two car bombs rocked the Algerian capital Tuesday, killing up to 18 peo­ple and crumbling homes and shops in the latest violence blamed on the North African country's Islamic insur­gency. 
Four hours apart, the explosions thundered across Algiers. Columns of smoke rose high above the city as ambulances and police cars sped toward ruined neighborhoods, sirens blaring. 
The blasts came just two days after a car bomb in the city center and an attack on a village outside Algiers killed 78 people. Nationwide, the bloodletting has killed more than 120 people in the past two weeks, with blame falling on Islamic militants try­
,,,//···················-··········· H 
Wednesday Q, 44 Thursday 43
~ Friday ~ 38 Saturday 30
~ 
Sunday ; ~ 23 
()".r._,;h~ ....J""-;· 
.....
~ 
' 
APf\Nm.J. Castello 

ing to topple the government and impose strict Islamic two otlwr ear bombs were defused Tuesday near a law. sports stadium and in the Clos-Salembier distri<:t. 
The first bomb exploded late afternoon near a cultural The car bombs were all within a OIH'-mile center and an apartment block housing hundreds, but radius. 
Clinton makes TV-movie cameo 
WASIIINGTON 
President Clinton played a cameo role Tuesday in a TV movie about a dying teen-ager whose wish to meet the president came true. In real life, said White House spokeswoman Mary Ellen Glynn, it happens pretty often. She estimated that the president has met 20 to 30 dying children after arrangements were made through 
...............~--.._a...JII.... childhood foundations that cater to seriously ill kids, such as the Make a Wish Foundation. "The foundations come to us regularly and ask the president to see the kids who've made this request," Glynn said. "lie's seen them in various settings," including campaign stops and his weekly radio address. A note to parents whose chil­dren want to meet Clinton: "We recommend they go through one of the foundations," Glynn said. The movie, "A Child's Wish," aired Tuesday night on CBS. Clinton, who performed for free, taped his part on a Saturday in May. The film is about a dying child and her father who lost his job because he wanted to sp1md time with her. It highlights a law Clinton pushed through Congress in 1993: the Family and Medical Lfmve Act. The law allows public workers and employees of companies with more than 50 people on the payroll to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for family medical emergencies or the birth of a child. 
Ski bum's bail remains $1 million 
STAMFOHD, Conn. 
Ajudge Tuesday refused to double Alex Kelly's $1 mil­lion bail, despite fears the rape defendant and former ski-bum fugitive would llee the country again now that he has been granted Irish citizenship. In making his decision, Judge William Hickey Jr. noted the Irish Consulate has said it will not issue Kelly a passport. I lis 
U.S. passport was seized two years ago when he was brought back to the United States to stand trial. Kelly, 29, skipped the country and traveled the globe for eight years after he was charged with raping two teen-age girls in 1986 while he was a standout wrestler and stu­dent at Darien High School. He surrendered to authori­ties in Switzerland in May 1995, and his first trial ended in a hung jury. lie is to be retried in April. Kelly's lawyer, Thomas Puccio, said his client applied for Irish citizenship only because he hopes to live in Europe after his criminal cases arc resolved. 


Soft drink or milking machine? 
CIIICAGO 

Coca-Cola Co. has the urge to sell a soda pop called Surge, but the makers of an automatic milking machine claim they've had the Surge since 1925. Coca-Cola plans to launch its Surge, a green, high-calorie, high-caffeine drink, with a $50 million advertising blitz on Super Bowl Sunday. Babson Bros., based in Naperville, contends it has held the trademark on the name Surge since 1925 for its automatic milking equipment and some industrial cleaning products. Babson is asking a judge to block the start of the ad campaign. "Allowing Coca-Cola to go unchallenged could lead consumers to perceive a link between our company and a caffeinated, artificially col­ored, fully-loaded soda pop," said Nick Babson, chief executive of Babson Bros. A federal court hearing was postponed Tuesday while the two companies negotiated. A Coca-Cola spokesman did not immediately return calls to the company's Atlanta headquarters seeking com­ment. Parker II. Bagley, a lawyer specializing in trade­mark cases, said Babson's ease would be tough to win, becaus!) Babson's milking machine and thn new soft drink are such different products. "Tlwre are tons of coexistent identical trademarks in different lields, and consumers aren't generally confused by that," Bagley said. Babson, however, argued there is a public health risk in Coca-Cola taking the Surge name, since Babson also markets green-colored industrial cleaning products in bottles under the Surgn name. 
Bank employees detain bosses 
PAHIS 

A government-appointed mediator failed to convince protesting bank employees Tuesday to release their bqsses, who have been detained inside the bank for live days. "The struggle continues," union representative Jean-Claude Mabourde said after an one-hour meeting with Philippe Houvillois, a Finance Ministry official appointed mediator Monday by Premier Alain Juppe. The 500 bank employees are protesting a government plan that would cut nearly half of the 3,300 jobs as the bank consolidates with Credit Immobilier de France. Houvillois said the first meeting was "simply to make contact" and that more talks with the workers should begin in a few days. France announced the streamlining plan at the end of July 1996 after the bank lost $2 billion in 1995. Nearly a dozen employees have stood like body­guards, making sure the bank president and seven other executives do not leave the building. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather<mforecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 22. 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


L 
39 25 18 10 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
!0 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure

4 H L B ESI [TI] 0 . !Z]g -o ~u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 64 50 Cincinnati 55 47 Miami Beach 77 65 
Barbados 82 70 Detroit 42 37 New York 48 30 Baton Rouge 70 57 Green Bay 35 34 Santiago 90 55
9,~,~9Q.Q i) ~ u 

Boston 47 32 Indianapolis 47 38 St. Louis 53 5t
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 43 38 Las Vegas 54 41 Washington 48 37
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Wednesday, January 22, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Wickre: Women struggle for credit in art world 
Feminist group works to counter discrimination 
By MELANIE GARMAN 
News Writer 
Women are still struggling to overcome the challenges faced in the art world, challenges which at one point in time cred­ited female works to the artist's male relatives, according to Bille Wickre, professor of art history at Albion College. 
In her lecture, "From Goddesses to Guerrillas in Modern Art," Wickre focused 
, on feminist issues emerging in the art world. 
"I became interested in femi­nist issues during college in the 1970s, when the word feminism wasn't a dirty word," joked Wickre. 
She began her lecture with a slide portraying the image of a goddess. The narrative painting was titled "The Tapestry Weavers," which captured the lives of two struggling young women. 
This painting set the stage for Wickre's lecture on how women as artists have often been seen as outsiders. She explained how throughout centuries their work has continually been devalued and suppressed. 
"The number of women who struggle in the art world is greater than we could ever imagine," says Wickre. "Many female works have either been lost or even falsely associated to a woman's husband, son or father." 
According to Wickre, in the past women were not allowed to sketch the male nude or any human body for that matter. They were limited only to non­human objects and still life por­traits, which were considered to be on a low-level scale in the art world. 
"Women were then forced to turn to alternate forms of art," said Wickre. "They began mak­ing quilts, doing needlepoint and using lace to embrOldet>." 
With the coming of the indus­trial age, women found them­selves working within the home without any training for fine art. This ran well into the eighteenth 


SINCE A4·YEAR DEGREE REALLY 
TAKES 5YEARS, YOU MIGHT NEED 
TO SAVE SOME MONEY. 
12 fast Italian favorites priced under $4. 

Real Italian. Real Fast TM 
52770 U.S. Route 33N, South Bend • 277-4008 
~ ABN·AMRO 
LaSalle Bank 
Chicago, Illinois Results driven. Quality driven. People driven. That's ABN AMRO/LaSalle. As one of the world's top 20 banks, we launch exciting careers with some of the finest banking and credit train­ing programs in the industry. · 
MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 
Combining classroom training with departmen­tal rotation, this program offers a unique opportu­nity for qualified individuals to experience diverse banking areas before deciding on a spe­cialty. During each month-long rotation you'll develop a mentor relationship with a senior level professional. Within 12 months, MAs are placed in a specific department based on employee's choice and organization's needs. 
CREDIT ANALYST PROGRAM 
.This comprehensive, 2 112 year program {ocuus on the structure and rationale fl/different trans· actitms. YouYllearn how tlJ analyze complex/iflan. cia/statements while I}Hir[Jening.~ and sales skills that will helP jlflu evolve intfl a sm~ce3:$.[Ul i• Oommefic(al Lender. You 'II partif{ipatl! in a week credit training class that wltli!X/1(}$1! YflU tlJ df-Rf"-"·' banking.:Iireas, services and pnfea•.-11 
months, be 
nache·tor'S degree in a•·Business iti~aJor. ~ Aiwounling classes and a minmiRi;,.''S~tJ/~.0 j!rade point:ft~ge. . 
BeSides the prospect ofe$ceptional career~wth and tf.lopment, both programs reward ,.·rzrtiiCI"' pants with .the opportunity to develoP8 ..Det.wat"fl. fl/lifolong career contacts. Ver, CMtt.li:tiltfliJ clim­Pt!n5ation and benefits art! avaNablefor individu~ fils with the qualities we seek. 1/: .n:J.•t•t 1m n.Haoil the Information Session, please stnd' resume to: ABN AMRO/LaSalle, Attn: College Recruiter. 135 S. LaSalle, Suite 3300, Chicago, lL 60674•. Equal, Opportunity Employer. 
century. 

"Not until between 1960 and 
1970 did the art world begin 
looking to find female artists," 
Wickre states. ''It has only 
been within the past few 
decades that women have 
started to question their role in 
the world of art." 

A group of women artists 
who call themselves "The 
Guerrilla Girls" formed in the 
early 1980s on the streets of 
New York City. Their main 
function is to make the public 
aware of the treatment women 
have faced in the art world. 

The Guerrilla Girls' unique 
way of capturing society's 
attention is to walk around the 
streets of Manhattan in sexy 
feminine clothing wearing 
guerrilla masks. 

I 
Role of Activism in Art: Mystic Violence and the Tubs Project." 
NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 
"Do women have to be naked to get into the Metropolitan Museum?" was the slogan on one of the flyers distributed by the group in 1985. The picture on the flyer displayed four pho­tos of nude females wearing guerrilla masks. 
The Guerrilla Girls raided gal­leries that discriminated against women, thus spurning a move­ment in the art world that caught on. There are now vari­ous branches across the coun­try, a web sight and a newslet­ter titled, "Hot Flashes." Wickre spoke positively of the group and its efforts. 
Wickre will also be speaking today in 232 Moreau Center for the Arts at 1:15 p.m. on "The 


Open to all majors. 




ame 
ncounter 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opponunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen 
your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your ctxperience of Christian community and service. 
FEBRUARY 28 • MARCH 2, 1997 
January 20-24, 1997 
Before 4:00 p.m.-January 24 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
$25.00 



I 
I 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
Democrats of Notre Dame. The Ryan Mcinerney has been one of decried what he saw as, "the and the increase in staff mem­letter from Kirk denied the the major contributors to student campus media misinforming the bers has helped. "We've created

Report 
request by the Democrats to rights resolutions. 'The Student students about [the supposed more bureaucracy, but it's neces­
continued from page 1 
Board of Trustees, delivered Sept. 26. 
The report, one of student gov­ernment's major accomplish­ments, is a comprehensive look at what improvements can be made on campus to enhance the academic and social environment for the Notre Dame student. 
Among the suggestions include a request that the plans for a new performing arts center be reconsidered, given the delay in construction. The report also points out the need for more space and funding for student organizations, commending the idea for a new recreational sports center. Murray pointed out that it was a unified effort with the Office of Student Affairs. 
In September, the senate spent a large portion of two meetings to debate the eligibility of Joe Lang and Shane Bigelow as sena­tors, not on important issues fac­ing students. 
Lang is a senior who had been voted to represent an on-campus district as a student senator last spring. However, he unexpected­ly had to move off-campus. 
Bigelow's eligibility was called into question because of his dual role in student government as president of Fisher Hall and as a student senator, and a schedule conflict in terms of attending meetings. Bigelow remained on the senate. 
Following the approval of the Board of Trustees report and the lengthy debate over constitution­al technicalities, student rights took center stage as a major issue in the senate. 
On Oct. 10, William Kirk, assis­tant vice president for residence life, wrote a letter to Catherine Mullaly and Matthew Dull, presi­dent and vice president of College sponsor a rally to celebrate National Coming Out Day, con­tending that the event was also sponsored by Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). GLND/SMC is not officially recognized by the University administration. 
Initially, the senate debated the issue for almost two hours on Oct. 30, then realized it couldn't vote because there were 13 members present, one short of the necessary quorum to vote. One of the members absent for the vote was Miller, who serves as chair of the senate. 
Subsequently, the senate passed a resolution noting the impropriety of the University's refusal to register the demon­stration. 
The senate approved a letter addressed to Patricia O'Hara, vice president of student affairs, on Nov. 4. It was signed by all members of the senate and it requested a more open dialogue on student rights at Notre Dame. 
The letter served as a catalyst for discussion on student rights, and the senate passed three res­olutions on this topic: one addressing the construction and content of du Lac, another with the du Lac revision process, and a third dealing with the lack of student rights in disciplinary hearings and in the community. " But the letter also elicited ~ response from O'Hara that befuddled many members of the senate including Miller and exposed the weaknesses of the senate as a representative body. 
Beyond the student rights issue and the initial concerns outlined by the Sept. 26 report to the Board of Trustees, the senate has failed to effectively tackle a majority of the issues that con­cern students. 
As Judicial Council president, Senate is engaged in a series of good discussions and debates and generated some interesting ideas, but I believe the nature of its construction and its lack of empowerment have limited the senate's ability to translate those discussions and ideas into tangi­ble results," said Mcinerney. 
As a result, the role of Student Senate and its effectiveness as a representative body for students has been called into question, and the student government administration hasn't attempted to change this. The haphazard scheduling of senate meetings has created consternation for senators and media representa­tives alike. 
The other representative body included in student government is the Campus Life Council. The CLC consists of 12 students, including chairman Miller, six rectors, two faculty members, and Kirk. This combination of students, faculty, and staff leads to a diverse nature of concerns that come up in council. It has, however, led to some division in decision process. During the debate over a resolution concern­ing the Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students group, the split was so defined that Shane Bigelow commented, "I think we need to notice that everyone [in the Council] over the age of 22 voted no or abstained." 
The interaction of students with administrators, faculty, and staff has also led to very heated discussions about the nature of the issue and the lack of informa­tion about an issue instead of the issue itself. A recent discussion of changes in du Lac featured Kirk and Student Senator Mark Leen arguing whether students should trust administrators to revise the policies and proce­dures of the University. Kirk removal o11 the student 'Bill of Bights,' [which was formerly included in duLac]." Leen quick­ly returned with, "You say that there is a lot of misinformation spread about the 'Bill of Bights.' But whose job is that? Student access Ito the revision meetings] will stop that.'' 

The council has overcome these problems, however, at least to address in subcommittee most of the agenda issues that they approved at their meeting on Sept. 23. 
In an age where government at all levels in this country have been criticized for being too com­plex and bureaucratic, Miller lauds student government's abili­ty to add more people and departments. 
"There's promises -we've added four new departments and 20 more stall' people to deal with that-and we're doing new things too," said Miller. 
When running for election last February, Miller and Murray list­ed gender relations as one of their concerns. Murray said that a gender survey, central to their attempt to address relations on campus, is set to be mailed. 
In light of the gender relations problems that have existed at Notre Dame over the past four years, gender relations is an issue that has screamed for attention at Notre Dame. Student government progress on this front has not been aggres­sive. 
Student government appointed Patrick Belton, a student whose own campaign posters for last year's student body presidential election featured Belton's pants around his ankles, to lead the new Women's Concerns Committee. 
Miller contends that the cre­ation of these new departments sary," Miller admitted. 
The current student govern­ment officers note that last semester's accomplishments haven't been limited in scope to campaign promises. 
"Those were just starting points," Kelly said. "Our office has been able to move beyond those issues." 
Project Warmth, which was conducted with the esc to collect over 1,500 coats for the South Bend underprivileged, and the students-only OSU pep rally are two such examples. 
Noting that they have nine weeks remaining before their term ends, the officers have out­lined six goals for the rest or their tenure. First is implementing Saferide, a program offering weekend rides home from the South Bend area to reduce drunk driving. They also plan to con­centrate on their upcoming spring report to the Board of Trustees, and on a spring service project. 
The newly formed reform com­mittee, seeking to address inter­nal issues like cooperation with SUB for example, will continue meeting to see if student govern­ment's structure and procedure can be improved. Finally. the administration hopes to help next year's student government with their transition to office. 
"There's more going on then full'illing campaign promises. This office has moved beyond those issues," said Kelly. "A lot of new things have come up that weren't on the platform, but they were good things." 
With the election for a new stu­dent leader approaching quickly, Miller admitted that there was more work ahead for his admin­istration. "We think we're doing well, but there's still work !nil to do. We've got nine weeks ]pft." 





Homophobia: A Christian Perspective 
Guest Speaker: 
The Most Reverend Thomas Gumbleton 
Ill 

Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit 
Wednesday, January 22 at 7:oop.m. DeBartolo ro2 
Reception will follow. All are welcome. 
Sponsored by The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and the Office of Student Affairs. 
)

< 
lt-. v v 
Iii 

Wednesday, January 22, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



HPC asks for more activities to soak up funds 
By SEAN SMITH of $8,000 still remains in the 
News Writer council's Special Project Fund. 
This fund is used to help 
The Hall Presidents' Council finance inter-dorm events such 
has less than one semester to as Carroll's Haunted House 
decide how to spend $24,000, and Stanford's "Mr. Stanford." 
the remainder of this year's $2,000 has already been given 
budget. But the council is not to Keenan to help fund the 
facing a lack options. "Keenan Revue." 
According to Lee Hambright, Another $3,350 has been 
the council's treasurer, a sum allocated for charities which 
The Observer needs Typists 
Type letters and notices during the day for the next 
\ .

days ISSUe. Please call Brian Tierney at 631-5303 to apply or ask questions. 
Please call before Friday. 

Hal Hal Hal Now my car insurance is half. 
Happy 2t8Tbirthday, 
Babai! 
-Baba, Ma and Papai 
·Undergraduate Summer Internships 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control (CBPC), will award up to 3 summer internships at Argonne National Laboratory for 1997 with a follow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the 11-week program at Argonne. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an enviro~men­tally-related discipline (any field ofstudy) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent res­idents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their junior Year by May 1997, and registered to return in the Fall of1997. 
For more details, contact the CBPC: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an applica­tion. 
have yet to be determined. The money can be spent on members. Topping the list of possibilities practically anything the dorms In other HPC news: at last night's meeting were desire, provided that the funds • Shannon Ball of the Student Habitat for Humanity, Big go to improving the dorms. Union Board's Antostal com­Brothers/Big Sisters, There Are Last year, only 16 dorms took mittee spoke to HPC last night Children Here, and Dismas advantage of this fund. in search of financial support House. "The money is there and we for the spring festival. 
HPC also has a fund set up for plan to end the year with zero The festival, which ran for hall allocations. Each dorm on [dollars]. So please plan only three days last spring, will campus is entitled to $500 events," advised HPC's co-chair last for an entire week this from the council each year. Deborah Hellmuth to fellow year. 

Information meeting for those interested in the position of Assistant Rector for University Residence Facilities 
Brown Bag Lunch Assistant Rector Positions 1997-98 
Thursday, January 23 
12:15 PM -1:00 PM Room 121 Law School 
For Information Call: Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building 


INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTIIBEND 
CoNTINUING EDuCATION 
Spring 1997 Semester 
631-5550 
More than 300 classes 
• 
Professional Development 

• 
Certificate Programs 

• 
Personal Interest 

• 
Languages and Culture 

• 
Tour Programs 

• 
Youth Classes 


Complete listings online http://www.iusb.edurcted/ Or call237-4261 for a free catalog 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame's service program as it exists today. As a junior resident, Malloy witnessed the early stages of service as an integral part of the Notre Dame education. Overhearing a conversation about groups that were forming for service in Latin American countries such as Mexico and Peru, Malloy became interested in joining. 
"I was able to say yes to the program and take some risk during the first summer that Notre Dame got invested in service in Latin America," he said. 
It was this sense of "pioneer spirit" in Badin, according to Malloy, that led to the creation of the Center for Social Concerns and the multiple service projects that are burgeoning at Notre Dame. 
The formation of service projects, in addition to the close friendships that he formed during his junior and senior years in Badin Hall, make Malloy what he called "part of a proud legacy of Badinites." 
Badin's week-long centennial celebration ends with an open house on Friday from 1:30 
p.m. to 4:30p.m., followed by an evening recep­tion from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 

Please RecYcle The Observer  continued since 1970, strength­Stephen Badin, the first priest ens Badin's tradition as a ordained in America. Badin's women's dorm, while it is still ground floor, which is still used conscious of its intricate histo­for a variety of purposes today, ry. once served as a bookstore for Excepts from Thomas the campus-selling both Schlereth's The University of books and souvenirs, and as a Notre Dame -A Portrait of its cafeteria in the 1920s. History and Campus. con­Also at that time, the campus tributed to this report.  
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME Present BRITANNICA ONLINE (On trial until February 12) Finding information has never been so easy as when you use the Libraries' newest reference resource. The Britannica Online provides you with immediate access to thousands of articles, online graphics and other forms of multimedia through its intuitive search windows. The Britannica is available to faculty, students and staff through the Libraries' homepage. The URL is: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndlibs E-mail your comments to: richter.8@nd.edu  
KAIROS MEETING, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 7:00p.m. DeBartolo Room 102 Tonight's Kairos 4th Day meeting will join the Lecture entitled: Homophobia: A Christian Perspective Bishop Tom Gumbleton -0MPUS MINISTRY  


Badin 
continued from page 1 
Eventually, a new brick build­ing was built to replace the for­mer clap-board building, although the brick building did not contain two wings of pre­sent-day Badin Hall. This new brick building was named St. Joseph's Industrial School, and in 1913 the name was short­ened to St. Joseph's Hall. 
In 1917, the building was named Badin Hall after Father barbershop and travel bureau were located on the ground floor of Badin, as well as the laundry pick-up for students. Even engineering classes were held in Badin's ground floor in 1928, after a fire damaged the Engineering Hall later to be known as Cushing Hall. 

One of Badin's most recent additions occurred in 1970, when it became a woman's res­idence hall. Along with Walsh Hall, Badin was one of the first women's dorms on campus. Its housing of women, which has 
i< t 1V"!' 
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Girl Scout troops hold Gingrich receives stiff fine 
By LARRY MARGASAK

out for extra 'dough' 
Associated Press Writer 
By LINDA JOHNSON class Philadelphia suburb of 
WASHINGTON 
Associated Press Writer 31,000. 
In a day of dishonor for Newt
The trouble began in 
Gingrich, the House voted for
TRENTON, N.J. November when Mount Laurel's 
the first time in history to disci­
Girl Scout troops in Mount Girl Scout community coordina­
pline its speaker for ethical mis­
Laurel want more dough from tor, Jan Snyder, said her troops 
conduct.
their cookies this year. were unsatisfied with the 50 
After months
Denied an extra dime per box, cents their governing council 
of partisan
leaders of 27 troops in southern offered per $3 box sold -even 
strife, the
New Jersey have begun a sales though that was up from 40 
vote was a
slowdown in protest. cents last year. 
lopsided 395­
The move appears unprece­Snyder, arguing the council 
28 to repri­
dented in 61 years of annual keeps too much of the proceeds, 
m a n d
cookie sales by the 2.5 million­requested 60 cents per box, said 
Gingrich and
member organization, which Joanne Goldy, spokeswoman for 
impose a
sold 1 7 4 million boxes of Thin the council, Girl Scouts of the 
$300,000
Mints. Do-si-dos and other South Jersey Pines. In exchange, 
penalty.
treats in the United States and Snyder offered a guarantee that 
"The penalty is tough and
its territories last year. sales would average 110 boxes 
unprecedented," ethics commit­
''I'm not aware of that at all per scout, slightly more than last 
tee Chairwoman Nancy
any place in the country," year. 
Johnson, R-Conn., said at the
Marianne Ilaw, spokeswoman "It was really too late to act on 
start of a 90-minute debate.
for Girl Scouts of the United it this year," Goldy said, because 
Republicans and Democrats
States in New York, said arrangements were set for sales 
agreed that Gingrich had done
Tuesday. "Things seem to be to start Jan. 10. The council gov­
wrong -indeed he had admit­
going well" with this year's sale. erns 11,000 scouts in six south­
ted it -but they dashP-d over
Not in Mount l.aurnl, a middln-ern New Jp,rsey counties. 
the gravity of his misbehavior. 

WHAT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A .JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 24th FROM 9:00AM to 5:00PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
The partisanship that perme­
ated the two-year investigation 
was undiminished Tuesday 
despite the overwhelming vote. 
At one point, Rep. Nancy Pelosi, 
D-Calif., questioned whether 
Gingrich was "ethically fit" to 
continue as speaker. 
However, most of the 435 
seats on the floor -and most in 
the visitors' gallery -were 
empty. 
Gingrich was attending meet­
ings in his office and did not 
watch the debate, said his 
spokeswoman, Lauren Maddox. 
When admitting his guilt Dec. 
21, Gingrich acknowledged in a 
written statement that he 
"brought down on the people's 
house a controversy which could 
weaken the faith people have in 
their government." 
After two years of denials, Gingrich confessed to committee findings that he failed to "seek and follow" legal advice that would have warned him not to use tax-exempt projects to fur­ther partisan goals. 
He also agreed that he should have known statements submit­-ted under his name -denying his political organization's con­nection to the tax-exempt activi­ties-were "inaccurate, incom­plete and unreliable." 
There were 196 Republicans, 198 Democrats and 1 indepen­dent who supported the penalty. Twenty-six Republicans and two Democrats were opposed and five members voted "present." 
Still unannounced is how Gingrich will pay the $300,000. Some Republicans said he would risk further uproar if he used campaign money or established a legal defense fund rather than using his own money. 
The $300,000 penalty imposed on Newt Gingrich emerged from plea bargain negotiations in which the ethics committee's special counsel one mentioned a penalty as high as $800,000, the speaker's lawyer said Tuesday. Attorney J. Randolph Evans said Gingrich was "shocked" even upon hearing the lower figure. 
A vote to reprimand a mem­ber is reserved for !'serious vio­lations" of the rules. The finan­cial penalty, never before imposed, was to reimburse the ethics panel for costs associated with expanding the investigation after Gingrich submitted his misleading statements. 
Evans and ethics committee special counsel James M. Cole watched from members' seats as Mrs. Johnson told the House, "No one is above the rules." 
While Gingrich agreed in advance to the penalties, the lone dissenter in the commit­tee's 7-1 vote last Friday to approve the sanctions, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, argued thn sanction was too harsh. 
He and Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, said that in the past misconduct not found to be intentional was punished only by a letter of criticism. 
"This speaker has had every detail of his life examined under a microscope and that micro­scope has exposed some flaws. some sloppiness or some things that should have been done bet­ter, but it has not exposed cor­ruption,'" DeLay declared. "Let's stop this madness." 
The Democrats contended Gingrich violated tax law and· intentionally misled the ethics committee -and they blamed the Republicans for downgrad­ing a planned week of public hearings to a single day. 







CRITICAL ISSUES ROUNDTABLE 
HOMOSEXUALITY & HOMOPHOBIA: CATHOLIC THEOLOGIANS SPEAI< 
Mary Rose D'Angelo Associate Professor Dept. of Theology  SPEAI<ERS:  Jean Porter Professor Dept. of Theology  
Richard McBrien The Crowley-O'Brien-Walter Chair Dept. of Theology  Regina Coli, Moderator Professional Specialist Dept. of Theology  
Richard McCormick John A. O'Brien Chair Dept. of Theology  January 23, 1997  

4:30 · 6:00, DeBartolo 140 
Co-sponsored by The Gender Studies Program & The Dept. of Theology 
~ ~--~-~~--~----------­
______...,l 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 22, 1997 

Li




A Celebra+ioJI1 0 


Far, in the f"nal analysis, Gad is not interested merely m the freedom a/ black people and brown people and yellow people. Gad is interested in the freedom a/ the whale human race and in the creation a/ a society where everyone will live together as brothers and sisters and where every person will respect the dignity and worth a/ every other human being. 
-Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
W
During this celebration of the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and on this anniversary of Roe v. Wade, e, the undersigned, mourn the 35 million unborn lives which have been tal<en by abortion since Roe. We are committed to the protection of human life from concept,ion until natural death and, therefore, we reject the death penalty, euthanasia and abortion. Furthermore, inspired by Dr. King, we commit our­selves to the use of nonviolence in achieving our ends. 
Maureen Kramlich '97 Brian Emerson '99 Jennifer M. Ryan '00 Sara Burke '99 Erik M. Bosken '99 JosefV. Knutzen '98 Beth Townsend '97 Meeghan Karle '99 Samantha H. Snyder '99 John A. Boland '98 Vincent J. Lentini '98 Shannon M. Ames '99 Stephanie Hoefling '99 Marissa Runkle Maureen Barrett '00 Megan M. Schmitt '99 Jonathan Erpenbach '99 Megan E. Driscoll Michaela Cronin '00 Amy K. Ross '00 Libby Blackman Stephen Tennes '99 Maria Rivera '97 Sara lnes Dever '98 Karrie Thompson '98 Bridget K. O'Connor '00 Kathleen Dillenburger '99 Gretchen C. Weiner '98 Jami Meteer '00 Alma Carrillo '00 Ashley C. Lowery '00 Winifred Joaquin '98 Katherine McCarthy '98 Mekashia Chenault '00 Stephanie So '00 Betsy Ferrer '98 Erin Maxwell '00 Elizabeth Marsh '00 Maria A. Migel '00 Jennifer Bryan '00 Jamie Fanning , '00 Melissa Gorman '00 Krista M. Guziec '00 Carianne Kretz '99 Erin E. Smith '97 Chris Walker '99 Elizabeth A. Mattingly '00 Janine Murphy '99 Meghan Knapp '99 Nikki Hladio '98 Laurie Stratman '00 Alaine Gherardi '99 Kevin P. Kiefer '99 Matthew Wingerter '99 Jeannine Haener '97 Eileen Whelan '99 Laura Colleton '99 Ryan Holtzer '00 Britt Holewinski '00 Rosemary Caballero '99 Chad Doran '99 Jennette Munoz-Colon '97 Chris Hahn '00 Mary Beth Lasseter '99 Mario M. Suarez '00 Julie Shepard '97 Alyssa Donndly '97 Carrie McKnight '97 Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Sunday Patterson '98 Melanie P. Bean '97 Carolyn J. Parnell '99 Jamie Kuhn '00 Judy DeFrieze '00 Christina E. Fitch '00 Kristin E. Yudt '99 Julie Fritsch '00 Patrick Belton '98 Suzanne K. Mignanelli '97 Lori B. Mrowka '98 Catherine Gehred '98 Kim Krug '00 Johanna Corbin '97 Sarah C. Spitznagle '99 Jennifer Bryan '00 Beta Davis '00 Richard Corbin '99 Beth Swiney '97 Brad Conners '00 Stacey Kamar '98 Laurie A. Wincko '97 Alma M. Carrillo '00 Laura S. Antkowiak '00 Amy Grace '00 Angela Bessolo '99 Karen L. Cowan '99 Lori Bettcher '00 Maggie Durant '00 Michael Carney '97 Katie A. Schriner '97 Jim Laur '98 Catriona Wilkie '99 David Mikolyzk '00 Jennifer M. Lawson '99 Deborah Irwin '99 Kelly Goss '99 David Leung '99 Heather H. DeJesus '99 Carrie Kate Briscoe Denice Rivera '00 Bill Connolly '99 Suzanne Decker '99 Megan McCracken '00 Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. Stanley P. Evans '98 Lisa T. Maggio '97 Mike Meyer '98 Emily Todd '00 Brian Dominic '97 Jennifer L. Turner '00 David Stocker '99 Jessica Balster '98 Bryan R. Mason '97 G. M. Gusich '97 Erin Herlihy '99 Sarah Dilling '00 Robert M.Elmer Law '98 Bridget M. Agnew '00 Gina Couri '99 Erin Orthmeyer '00 Patrick S. Brennan '97 Mary E. Snyder '97 Katy Fallon '00 Maria Banas '00 Susan M. Bruno Student Affairs Rita E. Flynn '98 Kevin McManus '99 Margaret Bowman '00 Jessica Fries '99 Michele TePas '97 Dawn Nakasaki '00 Lisa M. Caffarelli '00 Jennifer Slavik '98 Kristine Tracy '98 Andrew McElhinney '99 Jeanne M. Laughlin '98 Laura Eidetis '97 John Fultz '98 Derek Engelkemeyer '00 Beth Buckingham '00 Carolyn M. Long '97 David Eichstadt '98 Marina Ziolkowski '00 Jenny Kellogg '99 Christine M. McConaghy '98 Tim Sullivan '98 Melissa Mundo '00 Heather Donovan '00 Lisa Sendi '97 Mike Caruso '97 Stacy Fuller '00 Steve Fiamingo '00 Liz McKillop '99 Troy Leo '00 Saskia Sidenfaden '00 Shay McLean '00 Hilary R.C. Bollman '98 Kevin Dunwoodie '99 Kelly McMahon '00 Adrienne String '00 Jennifer R. Nelson '98 John P. Hazelrigg Jr. '99 Anne Moody '00 Jill Kleiser '00 Wilson D. Miscamble C.S.C History Daniel Eisenbacher '97 Meghan Farrell '00 Nicole Stenke '99 Sarah Bates '00 Samuel Vasquez '99 Nicole Johnson '00 Michelle S. Holden !98 Maribeth Krzywicki '99 Cody Rinehart '00 Blake Kramer '00 Marjorie Hill '99 Naomi Freeman '99 James M. Lies C.S.C. Joshua Guerra '00 Nina Pippin '98 Leona Strickland E.E. Staff Tracy L. Simers '98 David Dezern '97 Tina Johnson '98 Mike Gleason '97 Mara E. Grace '97 Shioban Fackelman '00 Katie Dorn '00 Matthew Hoefling '97 Kristin D. Schaner '98 
Rosita Smith '98 Jeanine Pearson '00 Kevin Espinola '97 Mathew G. Glen '97 
Melissa Ann Guerrero '00 Emily Baechler '98 Robert J. Muise '97 Brendon J. Johnson '97 Ben Jankowski '99 Nicole Shirilla '00 Katie B. Givens '00 Mark Leen '99 Maureen Minhane, C.S.C. Jeremy Lingen Felser '98 Shea Sullivan '98 Bridget Bergan '00 Tara McGrail '99 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Mart Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ....................... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager... . ............. Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.................. Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager.. . .............. jed Peters Sports Editor ........Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor. ......................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor................ Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .. . ........... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insrirucion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­corials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edicor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edicor, Accent Editor, Phoro Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Business Office  631-53I3  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  63I-454I  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
Sports  63I-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  63I-5323  Office Manager  63I-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  63 I-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  63I-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoinr.I@nd.edu  
General Information  63I-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• tR!\fOLATA 
Holiday season leaves much celebration to imagination 
Welcome back to all you lucky stiffs who had a nice long Christmas break! As for me, I didn't have a break, but it has been quite awhile since I've had the pleasure of addressing all you Observer readers, and we really must catch up! 
A few cool things have happened since I last wrote. The 21st of December has passed, and the days are now getting longer, much to my delight. One of my favorite NFL teams, the Green Bay Packers, is headed toward the Super Bowl. I got a fairly decent Christmas bonus from my bosses. A good friend of 
Kirsten Dunne 

mine from my days under the Dome is spending the upcoming weekend in the 'Bend, and I'm coming up to meet her and a slew of other friends. 
Perhaps best of all, my Christmas was spent at the United Center, where I had the pleasure of seeing the Bulls (my cur­rent favorite team) play the Pistons (my favorite team from '88 through '91 sea­sons.) What's more, my favorite former player, Rick Mahorn, is back with the Pistons, and at the conclusion of the game, he and fellow Bad Boy Dennis Rodman -who were not on good terms last year -gave each other a nice big hug. What more could an avid NBA fan want for Christmas? 
I must admit, though, that my "break" was not without some low points. Let's take, for instance, the gifts my friends gave me for Christmas. Now, getting lousy gifts is nothing new to me or any­one in my family, for that matter -for some reason, we consistently receive things which are ridiculously unsuited to our tastes. But this year was, perhaps, the strangest yet. One of my friends gave me old candy placed into a box which appeared to have originally been used for a small set of silverware. Also inside the box were a bookmark bearing the logo of the U. S. Supreme Court (I admit, I liked that part) and -get this -nine different postage stamps displayed on black cardboard. Maybe a nice gift for a stamp collector, but for me? At a loss for words, I simply exclaimed, "Oh! Stamps!" Stupid comment? Sure. But it was the first thing that came to my mind after "We've been friends for ten years! Couldn't you get me something I'd actu­ally like?" 
Another friend kept telling me about the belated-birthday-slash-Christmas surprise she was making for me. The "making" part might sound like the sus­picious element here, but I will assure you that she is quite an artist and this did not worry me in the least. Anyway, one weekend we planned a shopping spree and she'd made a big hullabaloo about bringing my gift. And while I wasn't going shopping with her as a guise to get my gift, I WAS a bit sur­prised when, after all her raving, she informed me that my gift was not yet ready. 
She did, however, bring my birthday card, and was so anxious for me to open it that she could barely wait until I'd parked my car at our destination. At that point, to ease her anxiety, I immedi­ately opened the card. "Isn't that a beautiful card? I just thought that was so pretty," she said over and over. I agreed with her that it was a nice card... but I thought it a tad peculiar that she hadn't written anything in it. To be fair to her, I must tell you that this was unin­tentional and she was extremely embar­rassed upon discovering her omission. I understood, and obviously forgave her, as she is a dear friend. But I still won­der... do wacky things like this happen to anyone else? 
Get ready -here's the best one! I have known Nancy (name changed to avoid public humiliation) since high school and still consider her one of my best friends. Last year, we did not exchange gifts at all, money being tight for both of us. This year, though, Nancy made a big issue of dropping my gift off to me before she left on her annual Christmastime vacation, and so natural­ly I figured I'd better get something for her. Now, when I get someorie a gift, I 

• 
DOONESBURY 
HI,/Jl;RN!~UIHAT!; UP?••• OJN­IV~7HATr >WSAYWU1<£.· GRATULATION9 FORVf/HAT.~.. cavwJWANONYMJUs&-MAJ'­H&'t HW'I? YOUHEAR?Vf/6 ANfoKJUNceM&NTFROM~e 
HAV&N'TlOWANYONEYPT! tu/lHA7RXIOUS SP£UING? 
get something nice and make a sincere effort to match the gift to its recipient. This time was no exception, and because of the fuss Nancy was making over getting my gift to me, I figured it was something pretty spectacular. 
If you're guessing that this was not the case, you're right. The two bars of per­fumed soap were nice (and obviously practical) but the necklace charm with an etching of a baby bottle on one side and the word "Bebe" (French for "baby") on the other was disappointing, if not downright insulting. I do not have children and I doubt that I ever will. What. would I want with this freakish item? Well, at least it had the gift receipt in there, I thought, and went to return the oddity with the intention of buying some cologne or clothing in its place. Yet again, I was out of luck. You see, Marshall Field's doesn't carry very much -certainly nothing I was inter­ested in -for 97 cents. A bit angered at my frugal friend, I walked away with my $1.05 refund (that's including tax, natu­rally) and looked on the bright side: I could buy myself a large Coke by merely adding fourteen cents! 
You'd think the lousy gifts would be enough. But no! My New Year's Eve turned out to be one of the most boring nights of the year. Of course, this was not truly a surprise to me. I usually downplay New Year's Eve because to me it is a depressing occasion. It is just a reminder that you're getting older, that another year is history, and that you're that much closer to your doom. Why people like to spend triple the money they usually would, and drive around to parties and bars on a night when half the people on the road are loaded, to actually CELEBRATE this occasion, is beyond me. However, I always hope that maybe I'll get motivated to let loose and have a good time. Well, that hope has been shot down again. 
Yet another grievance I have is this deal with the Snack Time Cabbage Patch Kids. I'd been shopping around for the one who was just right for me, when ­bang! -the little cuties are pulled from the market. I thought people were blow­ing this whole thing out of proportion anyhow, but when their griping screwed me out of adopting a Snack Time Kid of 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
my own, I became infuriated. Now I've had to resort to putting ads in the paper in my mission to find a 'Kid, and -sur­prise, surprise -I haven't been too lucky. Do any of you readers know how I might get my hands on one of these hair-craving dolls? If so, PLEASE get my number from Alumni Files and give me a call -I want a Snack Time Kid, and I want one bad! And, yes, I mean this SERIOUSLY-scary as that may be. 
Just as I was wondering what else could go wrong for me, apple-of-my-eye Dennis Rodman was suspended from play -again. This takes most of the excitement out of the game-watching as far as I'm concerned, and just irks me in general because I so strongly identify with this kooky rebounder and hate to see him punished. And some of these sports writers and telecasters seem to have nothing better to do than wait until the Worm gets in trouble and then per­secute him. One writer for the Chicago Sun-Times whom I especially despise ended one of his columns with this advice for Dennis: "Get a life." My advice for this guy? "Get your own." 
What makes me most angry of all, though, is the prospect of this camera operator suing Dennis for assault. The guy did a great acting job, having others take him out of the arena on a stretcher and all, but come on! How badly could the wuss have been hurt? Seeing stuff like that makes me regret, just a little, that I work for a plaintiffs' personal injury firm, and I have offered to help Dennis at no charge to fend off this pesky little wimp's claims. Hey, I'm not expecting anything but at any rate, you can bet I'll let you know if I hear back from Rod the Bod. 
Well, at least one of my gripes is now moot -that is, the fact that I have not had the opportunity to address you readers for over a month now! I mean, come on ... who else do you think will lis­ten to me whine like this? Now that I have my audience back, I can complain all I want. Gee, guys, I missed you, and it's good to be back for another semes­ter! 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and ND Law '95, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo. Ltd. in Chicago. Her column appears every other Wednesday . 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" Learning is not attained 
by chance. It must be 
sought for with ardor and 
attended to with diligence." 
-Abigail Adams 

-----l 
--------------------------------~--~~~~~----------------------------­



ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
How far do you think race relations have come si nee Martin Luther King Jr.? 

"Notre Dame has made a step to make the campus more diverse, but it is not very well integrated." 
Audra Duda Sophomore, Lyons 


"I don't see race issues as a big prob­lem on this campus. Sometimes peo­ple take things the wrong way. There is racism out there but a lot of times it is exaggerated." 
Will Matthews Jr. Freshman, Zahm 


"Racism is different now. It is not as blatant as it used to be, but it will always exist." 
April Davis Sophomore, Lyons 


"The problems of racism have come pretty far since the 1960's, but there is still a long way to go." 
Jeremy Joyce Junior, Morrissey 

"I don't think that race relations have improved that much. There is tolerance, but they don't make an effort to improve on that. At Saint Mary's and Notre Dame it's always the same group that goes to presentations and celebrations of other cultures." 
Marisa Rodriguez Sophomore, Holy Cross Hall 
The Observer/Rachel Sederberg 


A Tribute to 
By KRISTEN MICHELE BOGNER 
Accent Writer 

A
variety of activities are sched­uled throughout the coming weeks in honor of the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Celebration this year. On Wednesday, January 29 at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom there will be a talk entitled "Common Ground: Asian Spin: The New Hace Politics; Not Just Black and White." Emil Guillermo, an author and columnist, will speak at this event. 
A performance entitled "The Meeting" will be staged on Sunday, February 2 at 2 p.m. The play, which will be performed in Washington Hall, is a portrayal of the dialogue that might have occurred between Dr. King and Malcolm X if they had lived long enough to speak with one another, 
In addition, an essay contest, enti­tled "Heviving the Dream Deferred" is being held in honor of this noble man. The topic is how societal contented­ness hinders the fulfillment of Dr. King's dream of a stronger, caring, human community. Essays must be submitted by February 1 to Campus Ministry, which is located in Badin Ilall. These events are sponsored by Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns, the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Student Government, Student Affairs, the African American Student Alliance, Amnesty International, and the Filipino American Student Organization. 
How many professors mentioned Dr. Martin Luther King Day in classes on Monday? Some people were asked this very question. The answer was quite surprising. Those few who had even heard it mentioned in class remarked that it was merely in pass­ing; nothing in great detail was said about this national holiday. Quite a few people were actually oblivious to the fact that Monday was a holiday. It seems strange that in this Catholic community which prides itself on its pursuit of the very tenets of Dr. King's crusade, such a day could easily be forgotten, but it seems that it was. 
After all, Dr. King was accomplish­ing his wondrous deeds before most of our parents were finishing college themselves -why should this homogenous group of generation X'crs care about what some man did before we were born? This seems to be the prevalent attitude on our cam­pus, not because we are all horrible, immoral beings, but because we feel generally complacent with our present situations. Most things seem pretty unbiased and equal here -no blatant signs of racism or unfairness. 
There is a large majority of people that knows embarrassingly little about this holiday. There was one redeeming r"'~nnn<>e to that question, though. !\ s1ud1~nt relayed this story, which they heard in psychology class on Monday. Their teacher Dr. Borkowski, awakedned them with a speech on Dr. King. He had been urged by his daughter to speak on the subject, and so he obliged with a won­derful tribute to this man. 
Listening, they realized how very important Dr. King's message was in the '50s and '60s, is today, and will be, even if the time comes that men arc not judged by the color of their skin. There will always be injustic1~. there will always be prejudice, and there will always be people in need of his ideas. Dr. King strove to fulfill the act of Christian conduct. He truly wanted to make the world a better place, as trite and unbelievable as that may sound. Dr. King advocated nonvi­olence as a means of protesting injus­tice. He also urged men to take action when injustice occurs. He dreamed of a world with equal economic oppor­tunity for all men where love and unity could prevail over prejudice and hatred. 
What Dr. King did has implications which should be part of everything we do every day of our lives. He believed that everyone is created equal in God's eyes, and that to preserve this 


equal 
we m gain 
o v e 
reac pers tive wha 
r i g 
a n wro Wen I o bey 

wor We striv achi 
h i 
goa We have rcsp sibili 
m a t h 
W 0 I 
m o egali an. do t 

sec 0 
pre d i c and By foro and l God, drea quot to no "If old, truth some 
· that just, 
A quick look at what's Washington Hall thi 
Moliere Inspires French Theater Production Class 
By JOSEPH WEILER 
Assistant Accent Editor 
I
f you're in the mood to have a few laughs and a great time, then you know what they say, 'There's noth­ing like a really good French farce." Nobody knows exactly who said that lirst, but the French theater production class has be saying that for quite some time now. This weekend they are putting on two French 
comedies. "Le Medecin Volant" and "Les Precieuses Ridicules" 
are two of the earlier works of the great Freneh writer, Moliere. Paul Me Dowell, a pro­fessor in the Department of Romance Languages and Literature, chose these two plays because they show such a great leap in the sophistication of the writing of Moliere. "Le Medecin Volant" is a very base comedy. While it is very humor­ous, it is very simple. 
"Les Precieuses Ridicules" was written only six months later, but is filled with a biting sarcasm that is not seen in the former. 
Both plays will run on Thursday, Friday and Saturday evening in the Lab Theater of Washington Hall. The first play begins at 7:30 
p.m. and is followed immediately by the next. Tickets are available at the Language Resource Center. Admission is $2 for students and $3 for the public. 



--------~----------· ·-1 
I 


ACCENT -: I l 
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 page 11 

• ACCENT ASKS••• 
Coloring artin Luther King Jr. 


Outside 

ity. ust 

the Linea
an 
r ­
ing ec­
By CATHERINE DEELY 
-
on 
Au:ent Copy Editor
is 
h t 
d 
H
e was near the· top of our high school class,
g. 
headed to Harvard, able to turn an eloquentust 

phrase and commandeer a wide variety of

k 
extracurricular clubs and awards. Yet there he was wn 
nd 
one afternoon, taking a stand at the lunch table our cn­
little group normally occupied throughout our senior ttle 
year. ds. 
A girl we all knew by name, if not by any standard ust 
even remotely deeper, passed us by; there was no to exchange, not even a glance to warrant any unusual ve amount of attention. There was, however, something s different about this girl: it was well known that she
Is. 
was a lesbian. a shocking admission in our upperall 
middle-class, "Clueless"-esque academic envi­
a >n­
ronment. As she moved to join her friends at their y to 
own table, Mr. All-American launched into a scornful, k e 
disgusted tirade, focused primarily upon "people like i s 
THAT." Rolling our eyes at this all too common ser­
I d 
mon, a few of us took the liberty of informing him 
r e 
that he was unbelievably prejudiced. Shocked, heari­scoffed at the notion: "What are you talking about, To prejudiced?" he marveled. "I mean, it's not like I'mis, RACIST or anything."
lUSt be 
The sad thing is that such an attitude is not con­to 
fined to self-centered rich boys in suburban New our 
England. I have seen it everywhere, from the nightly n 
news to even here, at one of the premier institutions 
u­
of higher learning in t}le country where we are defi­
Photo courtesy of Muliticultural Student Affairs Office 

e s 
nitely supposed to kli9:1Y better. The assumption
ices. "The Meeting" explores what would happen if Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcom X had lived to meet 
seems to be that as long as prejudiCe is not prompted
oing one another. 
by skin color or ethnic. background. it isn't reallythers prejudice at all.
ving he wants to live a little longer and he die when we refuse to take a stand for Prejudice against homosexuals is often explainedwe can all help keep Dr. King's is afraid that his home will get that which is true. So we are going to as "moral disagreement with a choice of lifestyle."
alive. Dr. Borkowski read this bombed, or he is afraid that he will stand up right here ... letting the Prejudice against a particular religion is simply "ato the class. It is too trenchant lose his job, or he is afraid that he will world know that we are determined to pass on: spiritual issue." Yet the extremes all too many people get shot, ... he may go on and live until be free." This message speaks to all a man happens to be 36 years 
go to in their dislike, distrust, and even true hatred of · I happen to be, and some great 
he is 80, and the cessation of breath­of us; it tells us to get up and do some­others continue to grow, both in obscurity and ining in his life is merely the belated thing, whether it be helping a friend in stands before the door of his life, announcement of an earlier death in need, volunteering at a shelter, or just s!'}verity:it is-nowpos~i?Ie to. revile someone for ev­great opportunity to stand up for spirit. We die when we refuse to standing up for something in which (lrything from their mal)nt:Jr of dress to their form ofhich is right and that which is stand up for that which is right. We we believe. 
employment. And yet; sfJ:leEl.it does not cross that for­nd refuses to stand up because 
bidden boundary ofracial orientation, it is allowed. It is dismissed. It is forgiven. 

I do not profess to be a candidate for moral saint­hood, nor am I all that well-versed in the history of the Civil Rights Movement which Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. so passionately served. However, I firmly 
happening at 
Weekend 
believe·· that Dr. King did riot mount his campaign against injustice solely tQ erase. the racial barrier in America. Surely, at thattime and even now, racism lurked as a cancer poisoning the country and the cul­ture. To deny the severity of racial hatred is to sub­
By LOUISE EDWARDS Morand 
scribe to an ultimate level of ignorance. Yet a desire 
Accent Writer a n d 
for justice and equality does not limit itself to blackT o m vs. white, minority vs. majority. It covers any unfair
Resig, 

-.
treatment or even sentiment towards someone for 
T
and cos­he St. Edward's Hall Players tume 
anything ---:-ANYTHING ~other than the type of per­are at it again. For almost design­
son they are and the wll.)i>they treat those arottnd twenty years, this student e r 
them. · group has been producing plays Laura 
Martin Luther King lived and died to stop the which have proven to be extremely 
hatred around him; the step§ he took made a signifi­professional and entertaining. DiNardo. Yet, before this transition 
tirely of its own, yet united with an 

cant impact upon race relations in the United States. 
underlying theme. Ives truly dis­

Carrying on this tradition of excel­occurs, the many hours of hard 
plays his genius as a playwright as 

Yet, as noble as they were, they were not enough. Itlence are seniors Brian Zelizo and work and diligence will culminate 
he manipulates both time and real­

remains our calling and our responsibility to elimi­Craig Pinza, directors for this with performances this weekend, 
ity in this diverse collection. From 

nate prejudice from the ground up -and that goesyear's production, "All in the Jan. 23, 24, and 25, at 7:30p.m. on 
"Foreplay" to "Trotsky," this show 

beyond multicultural awareness. It reaches out to theTiming." Both were involved with the Washington Hall mainstage. 
continuously asks the question 

people you see in line for Grab N' Go and the articlesthe Players as underclassmen, and The cast of fourteen will be pre­
"what if?" and finds the answers in 

you read in magazines~ It demands thinking, reason­after this year. will pass this self­senting this very unique work of 
humorous moments along with 

ing, struggling to seek ou~and destroy the little biases contained group into the capable David lves, comprised of seven 
poignant dramatic action. Tickets

hands of Colin Huie, this year's short one act plays. This lends a and intolerances in ourselves. 
are on sale at the LaFortune Box

producer. Also on the production particularly interesting and differ­
Declaring ourselves.free of prejudice is a loftystaff are Jeff Dodson, set and light ent approach to the production, 
Office or at the door, and if "you 

want to see an erotic thrill. watch ·assumption to make. Strive for it...but never, never designer. stage managers Sara with each play being a scene en-this!" 
take it for granted. 
-
l I-­
~ 
I 
I 
I I I I I 
! 
I I 
I 
I 
I ­
I • 
' 
r 
·...:_ 
l.­
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
• NFL

•MLB 
Packers' coach receives honor 
"Donnie Baseball" 
Associated Press Writer NFL Coach of the Year. coaches in the NFL who did ''I've been a head eoach in great eoaehing jobs this year,"NEW OHLEANS the NFL for five years. and I Holmgren said. "Winning this Mike Holmgren knows that still have a long way to go to be award is an indication of how one trip to the Super Bowl, mentioned in the same breath fans around the country feel 

done with game 
By BEN WALKER Mattingly, 35. recently said even if the Green Bay Packers as Vince Lombardi," Holmgren about our team." 
Associated Press some teams had contacted 
win, cfoesn't 
said Tuesday after he was pre­Dom Capers of Carolina, the
him about a comeback, 
put him in sented with the award. NFC West champions, was sec­NEW YORK although no clubs publicly 
the same Green Bay won five NFL titles ond with 10,676 votes. andDon Mattingly, the greatest indicated they would offer 
class as in the 1960s with Lombardi as Mike Shanahan of Denver,New York Yankees player him a contract. 
v i n c c eoach, and the Super Bowl whieh led the AFC with 13 vic­never to reaeh the World The Yankees acquired Tino 
Lombardi. ehampionship trophy is named tories, was third with 10,212. Series, will never get that Martinez and Cecil Fielder to 
Holmgren, for him. The Packers finished 13-3 inchance. play first base last season. 
who coaehed Holmgren got 12,280 of the the regular season and easilyMattingly, who sat out last Martinez, obtained in an off. 
the Packers 68,676 votes east by fans on defeated San Francisco and 
season when New York won season deal with Seattle, hit 
to their first Holmgren 
internet web sites from October Carolina in the playoffs to reaehthe champi'onship, is set to .292 with 25 home runs and Super Bowl to early this month. The award Sunday's Super Bowl. The teamformally announce his retire­117 RBis and Fielder hit 13 of appearance in 29 years and was instituted last year, when it ranked first in the NFL in aver­ment Wednesday at Yankee his 39 homers last year after tied a franehisc reeord with 13 was won by Philadelphia's Hay age yards gained and allowedStadium. A news conference being from Detroit in late 
regular-season victories, was Hhodes. per game, scored the most
has been called for 3 p.m. July. 
selected by fans as the Visa "There are a lot of fine points and allowed the fewest. 
EST. Mattingly played briefly for 
A six-time All-Star and a the Yankees in 1982, the year nine-time Gold Glove first after they lost the World baseman, Mattingly hit .307 in Series to Los Angeles. The 

Reeves heads to the Falcons 
a 14-season career. He was Yankees did not reach post­
the AL MVP in 1985, later season play again until 1995, 
By ED SHEARER defensive coordinators and the Atlanta area. He said having a became only the 10th player their longest such drought 
A.sociated Press rest of his staff. house full of loud fans is essen­to be named captain of the since the days of Babe Ruth. 
"I have some people in tial for a dome team. Yankees and earned the nick­Mattingly hit .288 with just 
ATLANTA mind," he said. ''I'm trying to "It's only tough (for oppo­name "Donnie Baseball" as a seven homers and 49 RBis in 
Even though the buck will get those two positions (coordi­nents) to play in domes if you fan favorite in New York. 1995, but finished strong in 
stop at his desk, Dan Hccvcs nators) lined up." get a lot of crowd noise," he Mattingly became a free his first appearance in the 
says he'll need plenty of help to Ile said he wants an offensive said. agent after the 1995 season, playoffs. In the opening round 
get the job done with the leader who will "add something He said his goal is to "make saying he did not intend to of the AL playoffs, he batted 
Atlanta Falcons . to what we do." And he wants everybody feel they've made play in 1996. He left open the .41 7 with one homer and six 
"No way I can do everything one who will be able to eall the right choice." possibility that he would RBis in the Yankees' five­
that has to be done by myself," plays during a game, relieving Armed with a five-year eon­return at another date, how­game loss to Seattle. 
Hccves said Tuesday at his first him of that ehorc. traet rcportndly worth between ever. In 1991, Mattingly was ap­
news conference after being IIe said he already has talked $7.5 million and $8 million, In his last two years com­pointed captain of the 
hired as the Falcons coaeh. with some of the eoachcs who Hecves said he's not looking for bined, Mattingly hit just 13 Yankees, an honor he held for 
lie also will have authority were on the staff of .June .Iones, a quiek fix. homers and drove in only 100 five years -the last Yankees 
regarding player personnel, but fired in Dnemnber after a 3-13 "It's a long-range plan," he runs. player to be captain for a 
plans to lean heavily on the season. said. "We're looking down the Last September, during a longer period was Lou Gehrig, 
man who has run that end of "No question, we'll put to­road ... not to make 1997 the charity golf outing in his who had the position from 
the franehise sineo 1987. Ken gether a gn~at staff'." he said. year that you shoot for." hometown of Evansville, Ind., 1935-1941. 
IIeroek. Beeves spokn at tho Georgia lie will ditch the run-and­Mattingly said he had "90 Mattingly hit 222 home runs 
"l'~n in ~;lutrgo of foo.tbat.t. <~p­Dome, wlwr() th<~ club's owners shoot of'fensn usnd in tlw eras percent" made a decision on and had 1,099 RBis in his ca­
eratlons, Hneves sa1d. I m are hoping lw'll licld tlw kind of of Jonns and Jerry Glanville, whether to play again. At the reer. He led the AL in batting 
going to work with the people team that will Iurn fans baek. though he will usc some as­time, though, he did not defi­at .343 and won the MVP in 
that arn there. We'll see if we ''I've got nnough relativns and pects of that offensn in his pass­nitely say what he would do. 1985, when he hit .324 with 
can work together. I have the friends to fill the Georgia ing game. "lf and when I go back, I 35 homers and league-leading 
ability to make the final deci­Dorm~." Bncwns said. lin paused "You still win with dd'cnse, want at-bats, and it doesn't totals of 145 HBis and 48 dou­
sion. I had that for 12 years in before adding, "lfwn win." and you win with a good run­matter where I'm getting bles. In 1986, he hit .352 and 
Donvnr." Henves. 53. grc~w up in ning ganw," hn said. "But you them from," Mattingly said topped the AL with 238 hits 
Beeves said his first priority Amnrieus in southw<~st (;norgia got to bo abiP to throw thn then. and 53 doubles. 
will be to hire of'l'ensivn and and has family tlwn~ and in the ball." 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro -~ p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline f(>r next-day classitleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES I I LOST & FOUND I 
...____________, If you picked up my black wool 
CANCUN-PADRE-MAZATLAN coat at the Boat Club on Sunday, SPRING BREAK'S HOTTEST! Please call Kerry at 288·1542, 1·800-328-7513 I am freezing without it! FREE FOOD, DRINK & PARTY SPECIAL'/! Found in front of Knott Hall on Up to $200 Discount Coupons on Friday, 1/17: Woman's watch. Call our Website Amy at 1· 7600 to identify/claim. www.studentadvtrav.com 
AND class ring lost at Coach's on Spring Break Bahamas Party Monday Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Call Jack al 243·9396 if found Meals. Parites, & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From HELP!! Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 Lost my class ring between springbreaktravel.com Sarin, SOH, and 06. Great 
sentimental value. If found, Florida Spring Break! Panama City! please call John at X2213 or Room With Kitchen Near Bars drop by 319. $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! $$REWARD$$ Florida's New Hotspot ·Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­
WANTED

el.com 
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY· MENT -Travel Eastern Europe by teaching basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Board + other potential benefits. Find out how to succeed in this field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext. K55844 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Fishing Industry. Many earn up to $4,000+/mo. during peak season. Benefits often include Transportation and/or Room & Board. For details: (206)971-351 0 ext. A55849 
SUMMER SALES/ADVERTISING POSITIONS University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus tele­phone directories, will be on cam­pus January 23 and 24 to recruit top-notch students to sell yellow 

~-F_o_R_RE__N_T__~I 
Homes for Rent for 97·98 ADT Security 232·2595 
3 Bedroom $425+dep Available Now 602 1/2 StLouis Across from Rocco's 232·2595 
2 bdrms, near campus. Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe. Paul 232-2794 

FOR SALE 
Add -Bed -Queensize orthopedic premium mattress set. Never used still in package · cost 550 sacrafice 175. (219) 67 4-2352 
WOODBRIDGE I-BEDROOM CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900 TA'MARA 273-5166 
~~__P_E_R_so_N__A_L~ 
PREGNANT? Consider the loving option of Adoption. Caring, devoted couple wish to share our love, laughs, and lives with an infant. Call for profile and more info: Andrea and Lee: 1­800·213-3960 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Fl. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $1191 Daytona·Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­el.com 1-800-678-6386 
CLASS OF 1998 Send letters to your friends abroad. Drop in envelope outside class office at 213 LaFun by Jan 29th. LONG SLEEVE !-shirts are in. $15 in the class office or from your dorm rep. 
Face of Brad Pitt Body of Arnold Schwarenegger Eyes of Paul Newman Voice of SGT. TIM McCARTHY LNO • t/31/97-Joyce Center 
SECOND ANNUAL 
CLASS OF '97 SKI TRIP $45/ticket includes transpo, rentals, lift tickets, and hotel. Jan 25-26 @ Cascade Min. and hotel in Madison, WI Get your ticket @ LaF info desk ··sPOTS ARE LIMITED!!.. 

1·800-678-6386  page advertising for the Notre  BEUSCHER ARISTOCRAT  If you accidently picked up my  Congratulations  
SUMMER CAMP EMPLOYMENT  Dame directory. Gain valuable  TENOR SAX AND CASE$600/  black wool coat at the Boat Club  Carroll/Morrissey/Sarin Hockey on  
#I Mary Kay Cosmetics. On  Minnesota coed children's camp  experience in advertising, sales and  BEST OFFER. 289-1347-ERIK  on Sunday, please call Kerry at  a job well done  
campus, convenient. Call  seeks enthusiastic cabin counselors  public relations. Management and  288·1542-I'm freezing without it!  
Margrette 284-5261  and instructors for over 30 activities  travel opportunities available. For  Scratched COs? We fix 'em! call  The St. Ed's Hall Players think you  
including: Archery, Art, Biking,  information on scheduling an inter­ 284 4022 today!  SUMMER JOB FAIR-CCE, Lower  should see:  
Simon Says ..."Come to LNO on  Boardsailing, Canoeing, Diving,  view call Murray Dameron at 1-800­ Level-Thursday, January 23 from  Elaine Bonifield Jeff Dodson  
1/31197 -Joyc Center and see  Fishing, Lifeguards, Riflery, Sailing,  743-5556 Ext. 156.  4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys­ 1 to 4:30p.m. Discuss summer  Sean Dwyer Louise Edwards  
Sgt. Tim McCarthy."  Shop, Trip Leaders, Waterskiing.  tem, wash/dry, beach v·ball, prime  opportunities; bring copies of your  Brian Fremeau Chris Kudlacz  
Rep on Sl. Mary and UNO campus­ NOW HIRING: University Sales and  location, 1 09 N. St. Peter  resume.  Jim Lies Laurie Lodwych  
SPRING BREAK  es 1/28. Camp Foley HCR 77 Box  Marketing is hiring. Marketing,  233-9947  Jodi Lucena Andy Murray  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  172 Pine River MN 56474 218­ Sales and Promotions positions  SUMMER JOB FAIR-CCE, Lower  Mike O'Malley Drew Rausch  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  5430-6161 or sbfhouse@uslink.net  available. Work on campus,  Bahamas vacation package  Level-Thursday, January 23 from  Charity Rieck & Greta Zandstra in  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  Flexible Hours, Great pay. Call 800­ for two, at less than $398 actual  1 to 4:30p.m. Discuss summer  ALL IN THE TIMING  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­ 562-8524.  cost. call Noman @277·4269  opportunities; bring copies of your  by: david ives.  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  National Parks hire forestry work­ resume.  They'll be your best friends!  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  ers. park rangers, firefighters, life­ SMC student seeks Fe. roommate  Dell 486: 8Mb RAM, 850Mb HD/50  Thurs. Fri. & Sat. 7:30PM  
BIGGEST PARTY.  guards. +volunteer and govern­ for spring,cute duplex,garage,own  MHz, 14.4 Modem, Windows 95,  SUMMER JOB FAIR-CCE, Lower  Washington Hall  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  ment positions. Excellent benefits +  room, 5min from campus.271-9843  Microsoft Of!ice, 16Mb Ram avail­ Level-Thursday, January 23 from  Tickets $3 @ Lafortune or the door.  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  bonus potential.  able, book holder+ 15" TV. All for  Ito 4:30 p.m. Discuss summer  
Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55841  Babysitter wanted. pre!. with own  only $800  Stal: 232-5846  opportunities; bring copies of your  Nell Carter is Omnipresent.  
Texts -25% 0111  transport., for toddler in our home.  resume.  
24 Hour Service. Buy/SellfTrade.  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico,  Hours flexible 277·1037  TICKETS  MTV, our resident ladies' man,  Happy Birthday Nucci!!!  
Open 7 Days per week  Caribbean) & earn an excellent  We need a couch! If you have an  please be gentle.  If you are not there for lunch I will  
NO at Howard Street  income in the Cruise & Land-Tour  extra one and want to get rid of it  I need one JPW ticket for one or all  kill you.  
233-2342  Industry. For details, call 1-206­ give us a call at 273·2580!  of the events. Please call Shannon  Hey Terry-How are those wings?  
Pandora's Books  971-3550 ext.C55845  at X 1833. Thanks.  Wanna play Army?  Sack  
--------------------------------------------------------------~--------------~  

---~-~--~­
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 







Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Ann Searle comes to the University of Notre Dame from Lowell, Indiana. She is a sophomore Science/Pre-Professional major who resides in Pasquerilla East. Ann has plans for medical school after graduation. She has participated in a wide variety of lnterhall events including football, vol­leyball, basketball and softball. In addition to being a standout for the P.E. sports program, Ann has also been a fixture in Co-Ree events. She has competed in Co-Ree softball, broomball and volleyball. As a former high school sports star, she had this to say about her RecSports endeavors: "I love the competition. It helps keep me. in shape and it is a lot more fun than running. I could not imagine not playing sports." 
Recipients receive ((::i.w;.~ merchandise from the 




VARSITY SHOP 

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(]oyce Center) 


• I I 
I 
I I I 
1 I 
j I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
l 
I I I I 
I 
1 
l 
~ 
I
I . I 
! 
I I I I 
~ 
I I 
I 
' 
I­
~ 
page 14 
• SEARS CUP STANDINGS 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre 
Dame athletic program stands 
in third place in the Division I 
Sears Directors'1Cup standings 
following completion in all fall 
sports. 
The Irish received points 
thanks to contributions from 
teams in football, volleyball, 
men's cross country, men's 
soccer and women's soccer-
all of whom finished 21st or 
higher in finaLnational stand· 
ings. , '' ':" ·t ., · 
The Irish finished the fall. 
with 256 points and curteii,tly·
stands third'hehind Nebraska .(282) and Penn State (277.5) in the all-sports corq,petition administered by the National 
Association of Collegiate 
Directors of Athletjcs (N.ACDA) 
five point-scoring squads fin­ished: 
•Football ~ 8-3, 21st in final CNN/USAToday poll. 
•Volley9all ~ 22-12,Big East regularlseason and tourt"ta~e'Ut ''.!.M•ii>Champion, advanced to the second round ofNCAktouinament. 
•Men's Cross Country ­Ninth at NCAA championship, champion of NCAA district ~eet, ~ourth at Big East cham­ptonshiP•AtiD' 
•Men's S'O'bcer-14-7-2, Big 
Eastt · ent champion,(!.dvanc d,tQuni.i o(r-JCAA:t ....... ,.,..·· •·• !i'''!!'!)':!j;_;,ii.... ;.:,; 
•Women's S r-24~2; Big East r~gular-season and tournatn()j,\tchampion, run­nerup in NCAA toUrnament. 
Notre Daitl.e finiShed 11th in the tlrstSears <;up competition 

and sponsored bySears;' @d&F••i'!in l · .;30th, .. in. 1994-95 
Here's how Notre··Dam~·s 
···=::::~ ..·==· ' ·.:::.-.... 

8-Ball 
continued from page 20 
to 70-40 with just under eight minutes remaining. 
"Our zone looked really good at times," McGraw exclaimed. "Jeannine (Augustin) is our best defensive player and she really goes after the ball." 
The guests proved that they were truly noble Knights as they battled to the bitter end as they went on a 21-6 run to finish the game and coach Stringer used five timeouts in the second half including one with just .6 seconds remaining on the clock. 
Not being able to maintain a large lead is nothing new for 
McGraw's squad.  In their last  
game they had  a  31-0 run on  
Pittsburgh  but  they  went  

{lt.Q ...· mJ995·96. 

.:AR:..:... ·.., · 
through the motions in the sec­ond half as the Panthers out­played in a sloppy second half. 
"Our goal for the year is to play a full 40 minutes," McGraw stated. "I was pleased with the first half, but tonight I think we played about 28 minutes. I think we slumped when we subbed." 
Rutgers was at their best when they attacked the basket and crashed the boards. Blauser worked in the paint for a team high 17 points. The Lady knights dominated the glass with 21 offensive re­bounds which gave them an edge of 42 to 33 in that cate­gory. 
"They did a great job on the boards," McGraw noted. "That has been something that we have wanted to key on but they were very quick to the ball." 

The Observer • SPORTS 

Fencing 
continued from page 20 

"The competition was not real tough, but the record of our less experienced people shows we have good depth rrom top to bottom," said senior epeeist Jen Sutton. 
From the opposite perspec­tive, but equally influential, the strong field of the individual meet in Louisville gave the team a good practice round going into the Penn State meet. With the top fencers in the nation, and even some of the outstanding performers in the world, the squad encountered competition which will pay off in the long run. 
"The results were spread out without any consistent top fin­ishes. But with a big tourna­ment like this, that is to be ex­pected," says Krol. 
Timing proved to be every­thing in the format of the tour­nament. While Krol did poorly in the beginning round, her teammate Hoos performed well. But when the two entered into the direct elimination section, Krol rose to the occasion to fin­ish 24th in the open epee and 14th in the open foil. 
The men received outstanding performances from several indi­viduals to set up the upcoming weekend. By finishing fifth in the open foil competition, senior Jeremy Siek made a serious push at entering the top ten in the nation. 
"Jeremy had a great competi­tion. His performance gives us optimism going into the Penn State meet," says Auriol. 
"Overall we had a good week­end at Northwestern and Louisville. It provided a great warm-up for the upcoming meet," says Auriol. 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Senior Colleen Smerek helped the women's team at the Northwestern meet, which was a tune-up for next weekend's Penn State meet. 



Leave the driving to us. 

Coming soon from Student Government 
UNIVERSil'Y OF NOTRF 0At.U 
SrnoFNT C.nvFR"' .. HIT 

. r 

-----------------------------------, 
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
Jordan sets season scoring mark against Knicks 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan scored 51 points, the most by an NBA player this season, as the Chicago Bulls responded to their first loss in weeks by de­feating the New York Knicks 88-87 Tuesday night. 
Playing without suspended Dennis Rodman and injured 
Ron Harper, the Bulls won for the 1Oth time in 11 games and improved to 35-5. The lone loss during that string was Sunday at Houston. Chicago is 20-1 at home, with 13 straight victo­ries. 
In besting his own 50-point performance of Nov. 6, Jordan reached the 50-point mark for the 36th time in his career. The league's all-time leader in points per game, Jordan is go­

to find a SUMMER JOB! 
Get a head start on your job search at the 1997 Summer Job Fair 
Bring Resumes Thursday, January 23 1 :00 •• 4:30 pm Center for Continuing Education/Lower Level 
Listing of participants available in Career and Placement Services 



~~~~~~~~~~ 
Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 
Lf\1 t f'.' ,&,~1 OLYtvrF\L~ 
Late Night 0\~mpit:.f, ')(l 
Frida~, :fanua~ 31 
1:oo 'PM -4:oo AM 
JO~Ge unter The eleventh annual Late Night 0\~mpic.r, if> r,c.hec\ulec\ for fric\a~. Januar~ ?1, 1qcn. The proc.eec\r, from thin a\I-night r,portr, e~travaganz.a go to benefit th~ '5t. Jor,eph Count~ '5pec.ia\ 0\~mpic.f>. for more information. c.ontac.t ~our hall reprer,entat1ve or c.a\1 \Z-ec.'5portr, 
at 1-lPIOO. 
keough I Pa~queri\\a we~t I keenan Dillon I Badin I \Z.egina wa\~11 I ~orin Pangborn I fi~her Cavanaugh I O'Neil\ Breen-Phillip~ I C.arro\1 I 1-ewi~ ~iegfried I ~t. f.d'~ I r\o\~ C.ro~~ Aanner I knott I t<kC.and\e% Z.ahm I far\e~ r\oward I 1\\umni l~on~ I Morri~~e~ ~tanford I 1-e Man~ I Pa~queri\\a f.a~t 
fridai, :fanuari ?1, 1qq1 •l:oo "PM -4:00 1\M • Joic:e Center • V31-(piOO All LNO Medals Wen~ Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <E~ 

'Purc.na£>c ~ LND \2-aff\c Tic.\Cct£> for $1.00 from ~our LND na\\ rcprc£>cntativc. Gtrcat 'PriZ-e£>!!! 
ing for his ninth scoring title; this season, he's averaging 31 points -4 112 more than any­one else. 
Jordan was 18-of-30 from the floor, including 5-of-8 from 3­point range and 10-of-11 from the line. The rest of the Chicago team shot 35 percent from the floor, and Jordan scored all but two of the Bulls' fourth-quarter points. 
Patrick Ewing scored 19 

points for New York, which used a 17-2 run to cut a 17­point deficit to 80-78 with 6:22 left. Allan Houston, who had missed 12 of his first 13 shots, made two 3-pointers and a pull-up jumper to spark the surge. 
But Jordan scored Chicago's final eight points, getting to the 51-point mark with a fade­away 20-foot jumper over Houston with 26.7 seconds left, as the Bulls went up 88-81. A late 3-pointer by Houston and one at the buzzer by Chris Childs weren't enough to bring the Knicks back. 

The Observer 
Saint Mary's Editor is accepting applications for the following paid position: 

Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's News Editor 
Please call Caroline at 631-4540 for information. 
January 25 -JJ :00 AM Deadline -January 23 February J -JO:OO AM Deadline -January 30 February J -2:00 PM Deadline -January 30 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
EquipmentRentalAvailable -$J.OO Charge 
Ree-~ 

Do you like to play music? 
Do you like to talk? 
Do people say you look good in headphones? 
wvfi is a student-run radio station 
\\ h 
on t e campus. II 

We have positions open for new DJs 





NOWI 

calll-6888 

for details 
While the Bulls were without two starters -Rodman is serv­ing a minimum 11-game NBA suspension for kicking a cam­eraman and Harper has back problems -the Knicks were without top reserve John Starks, who has a strained shoulder and neck. 
The Bulls led 54-46 at half­time as Jordan had 27 points and Pippen all of his 15 points. New York led 57-56 midway through the third quarter be­fore Chicago outscored the Knicks 22-4 to go up 78-61 early in the fourth. Jordan had 14 points during the run. 

. 
I 
I 
page J 6 
The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
• INDOOR TRACK • SPORTS BRIEFS Late Night Olympics -Late Advanced Ballet. The Beginner ~D -RecSports in conjufic­Freshmen shatter Night Olympics XI is. scheduled classes are for dancers with 0-4 tio11 .. with Notre Dame for Jan. 31 at 7 p.m. at the years experience and the SE!curhy/Police will be spq~(JI';;, Joyce C~nter~ .. Team entries are Advanced class is for dancers J~g a RAlJ classfor women.,()l'!:lYdue by Jan. 271 For the name with..5 or .•more .years ex · ...;.,,.fiorn:"Jan. 21-30. The class Willrecords at Invite of y()u):' Hall Representative or ence. Botltclasses are seiQes · ln~et. on Tuesdays . and for more information call 1• long classes with· a fee of $3 •. · ~~ursda~~ from 6;30·9!3Q p,m.Special to The Observer giate meet. 8237:'······i···········;·. The Beginner class meet!) on iri ~ockne Rm. 301...The pro~On the men's side, another ~b()rin~)lyu . Karate-Saturdays from 10:15~11:45 gram is taught b~ RAJ:) certifiedANN ARBOR freshman shined for the Irish as StUdents are instruCted accord· a.m; and Mondays fro,pt7:30· instructors who are"\(niversityNotre Dame's men's and Marshaun West cruised to a htg to Okinawan techniques, 8:30 p.m. The Advanced class police officers at Notre Datne.women's track and field teams first-place finish in the long This semester-long course meets on Sundays from 1:15­Itegister in advance atopened the jump with his jump of 24-9.25, meets in Rockne Rm. 219 on 2:45p.m. and Wednesdays from RecSports beginning today.1 9 9 7 indoor ,----:-:::;;;;;:::-------, the second-best long jump in Tuesdl).ys and Thursdays from 7:30-8:30p.m. All classes will Class size is limited. There wlll track season Notre Dame history behind 6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 30. be held in Rockne Rm. 301. not be a fee for this class.at the Red James Patterson's 25-5 set 11 You must register in advance at Sign-ups will begin at 8 a.m. on Cross Country Ski Clinics -Simmons years ago in 1985. West also RecSports and the fee is $18. Jan. 27, in the RecSports office, RecSports will be sponsoringInvitational won the 200 meters with a time Call 1-8237 for moro informa­space is limited. Classes begin three clinics this winter. Thein Ann of 22.12 with freshman team­tion. on Feb. 1. rrrst clinic will be on Jan. 25 atArbor, Mich., mate Chris Cochran close be­TaeKwonDo-Students are Jazz Dance ­A Jazz Dance 11 a.m. and there will be twoand were led hind in third place with 22.47. instructed in accordance with classwill be offered Monday offered on Feb. 1 at 10 a.m,.and by three Junior Errol Williams tied his World Tae Kwon Do FederationCalloway and Wednesday from 6-i': 15 at 2 p.m. The fee for the clinic freshman career best in the 55-meter hur­techniques. This semester • p.m~. in Rockne Rm. 219. is $5 with an additional $3who quickly dles as he finished second with a long co.urse meets Sundays There will be an information rental fee if you need to rentestablished themselves in the time of 7.37, the fourth fastest in from 3·4 p.m. in Rockne Rm. meeting on Jan. 26 at 2 p.m. in skis. Registration in advance is Irish record books. Hosted by Notre Dame history. Senior Jeff 301. You must register in ad­Rockne Hm. 301. The fee is $30 required for all three crossthe University of Michigan, the Hojnaki won the 600 meters in vance at RecSports and the fee ror the semester and sign-ups country clinics. meet included teams from 1:18.65 while senior Dave is $20. will begin at 8 a.m. on Jan. 27 Yoga & Tai Chi-The sign­Michigan, Eastern Michigan, Gerrity took second in the pole Ballet -RecSports will be in the RecSports office. Classes ups begin Jan. 21 at 7:45 a.m.Western Michigan, Toledo and vault with his jump of 15-6. sponsoring Beginner and begin on Feb. 3. in the RecSports office. Notre Dame and did not include team scoring. Freshman sensation Dominque' Calloway, who ad­DO ~OU LOifl i40ifDI? vanced tot he 1996 U.S. Olympic ]PWTrials, set a Notre Dame record i4UIIC? WRITI.MG?in the 200 meters with her time Lector Auditions of 24.89 which was the second fastest among collegiate run­The Observer wants YOU. ners. Her 24.89 shattered the Tuesday & Wednesday previous Notre Dame record of January 21 & 22 Accent is looking for a few good people from Notre 25.55 by Erica Peterson set in 1993. Calloway also ran the at 4:oo p.m. Dame and Saint Mary's College for these positions fourth fastest 55-meter hurdles • Music Criticsat 7.98 with another second­place finish. Basilica of the Sacred Heart • Film Critics Another freshman, Jennifer • Soap Opera Correspondents Engelhardt, set an Irish record • Copy Editors in the high jump with her 5-9 • Assistant Editors and Writers in generaljump which earned her a sec­ond place finish. She broke -0MPUS Ifyou are interested in any ofthese positions, please Kelly Saxen's one-year-old MINISTRYrecord of 5-8 in her first colle­contact joey at 631-4540  


I 
l 
I 
I 

New England Patriots 
vs. 

Green Bay Packers 



LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
doors op.en at 5:30PM ... kickoff's at 6:17PM 
FREE FOOD! DOOR PWZES! COOL COMMERCIALS! 
catch all the action on the largest screen on campus! brought to you by Student Acthtities 


i i
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 ~I 
I
• SMC BASKETBAlL 
Belles take Tigers to the wire in difficult defeat 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
Not often in college basketball do opposing coaches agree. However, in Saint Mary's thriller against DePauw last night the Belles coach David Roeder's and the Tigers' head coach Kris Huffman's opinions were in sync concerning the Belle's perfor­mance. 
Despite Saint Mary's 80-83 loss in overtime, Roeder and his 

INTERNATIONAL 
Jon SKHLS 
New professional M.A. in International Affairs or Interamerican Studies prepares you rapidly for excitmg careers: 
0 environmental studies 0 public health 0 government 0 international 
organizations 0 international media, 
business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sciences. 
Complete this intensive multi-disciplinary degree in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fascinating international city. 
Free details. 
GRADUATE Sa:IOOL OF 
INTERNATIONAL STIJDIES Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 305-284-4173; Fax: 30)-284-4406 
NewURL: 
hrrp:!/www.miami.edu/gsis 
counterpart agreed that Saint Mary's deserved a tremendous amount of credit. "We were the better team," the Belle's coach stated. 
The Tiger's head coach made this statement unanimous re­plying, "We wenl" lucky to get out of here with a win." 
In a see-saw battle with their opponents, the Belle's hung onto their confidence. The team seemed to disregard the fact that they have not won a game since Dec. 6 and played to the fullest of their potential. 
The Belles came out to a 7-2 start and immediately began their aggressive defensive at­tack. Failing to take advantage of rebounding and turnovers, the Tiger's sprung back to a 15­12 lead. The Belles charged off the court at half-time with the momentum as sophomore Nicole Giffin nailed a three­pointer giving Saint Mary's a 30­29 leading edge. 
The score-swaying second half was dominated by Saint Mary's 6'1" center Marianne Banko as she accumulated much of the entirety of her 37 points. 
In the midst of the game, a three-point shooting contest seemed to be held between Hall and Giffin. Tiger's leading scor­er Hall contributed a three­pointer to advance their lead 44-46. Giffin echoed the shot with her own pulling her team to a one-point leading margin. Giffin continued her past trend of threes earning nine of her eleven points by the night's end. 

As the time clock dwindled away, Saint Mary's apparently began to run out of steam al­lowing DePauw to execute a 10­0 run. With help from Banko, the Belles decreased their deficit to three. Two seconds were left on the clock as Saint Mary's fed the ball to their second highest scorer Darcy Nikes and sunk the three-point shot to tie the game. The basket was a'catalyst to the crowd's intensity as they rose to their feet. 
'There's not enough I can say 
The Alliance for Catholic Education and The Center for Social Concerns 
invite you to a iFIESTA ! 
to celebrate post-graduate service with Domestic and International Spanish-speaking communities 
featuring the music of 





Sabor Latino 
Thursday, January 23rd 9:00-12:00 Midnight Center for Social Concerns 
about Banko," Roeder com­mended his players. "Brenda Hoban was strong on defense and Darcy was great." 
Again Banko dominated the Belles' scoring in overtime. The squad fought to stay in the game, but their turnovers and fouls were overbearing. Even in the last seconds of overtime the Belles hoped to shoot yet anoth­er possible game-winning three. Unfortunately for the 1-9 Belles, their previous three point sav­iors Nikes and Giffin could not sink their last second attempts. The Belles fell into the clutches of the Tigers as the final score read 80-83 leaving the Belles with another tough loss. 

... 
&*1'F#AK ~EGGs 
Ro'D'ND-'D'P 

Top S:ER.Loll:lV ~~ :E:GG.s &15.-.&
red 00 ' · · 
-~ Yo:R.K &TB.ZP &'T':EJ..&.K ~ :E:GG.s &17.-.e

APPe? oef Jart1, 
Choose a 7 oz. top ~ sirloin or a 9 oz. New York Strip Both are 
tender USDA choice cuts charbroiled ~to your liking and seNed ~ star with three @ buttermilk pancakes, two fresh eggs ~ and crispy hashed brown potatoes. It's the meal ~ that won the west 
"9<9 s search, 

S'\»1' he lrt1Prov 
PerkulS. Breakfast, Drnner and Everyth1ng In Between-

i Brought to you by: Stude 
• 

Ava1lable for a hm1ted tune only restaurants C199S Perlr:1ns Restaurants 
j 
~ 
r 
f 
I 
i page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
I 

I Garrity
I 
I continued from page 20 
j 
~ age is good enough to lead his Irish teammates in that categoryI along with his averages in vir­tually every other category.
l 
The junior sensation also ranksI as the 20th scorer in the nation. Basically, Garrity's the man.
I 
He knows it. Opponents know it. 
His averages become even more impressive considering the entire conference arranges its defenses to specifically prevent him from being the focal point the Irish need him to be. 
"To tell you the truth, that's the way it's been for three years now so I'm kind of used to it," Garrity said. 
Growing accustomed to his role does not necessarily mean he can continually carry the Irish on his back. Garrity, who by nature is an unselfish player, will be the first one to recognize a need for scoring balance. 
Currently, point guard Admore White trails Garrity with an 8.2 average, 13.5 points behind "the man." 
"I love to see when other peo­ple get hot hands or get into zones," Garrity added. ''I'm not trying to take the ball out of their hand. I'd rather that hap­pen because it takes some of the attention off me." 
Whatever Garrity makes up in being ahead of schedule, the Irish cancel out in being behind the rest of the Big East. While Notre Dame has already dou­

't 
bled their conference victories from a year ago with two, growth remains slow. After breezing through their non-con­ference schedule with a 6-2 mark, the Irish proceeded to lose four straight once Big East teams were on the other side. 
The period represented an in­consistency that has plagued the Irish since Garrity's entrance to Notre Dame. ''I'm pretty happy," the 6-9, 235 pound for­ward said. "I would have liked to see a little more improvement over the three years. I under­stand it's kind of hard to gauge because of the move to the Big East. What I've noticed espe­cially this year is that we have people who are willing to work in practice. We don't seem to have as many bad practices and that's good to see." 
Garrity realizes a winning pro­gram takes time to develop. Just like taking consecutive Big East games, which the Irish have a chance to accomplish tonight, every achievement is a positive step. 
No matter how big or little. 
"Winning consecutive games would be just another step in the right direction," he said. "With the kind of season we had last year, there's going to be a lot of those cases where it's the first time for this and that. It's just part of the building process. 
"We're not really into estab­lishing long-term goals or bigger steps. We just want to win and approach each game indi­vidually." 
"It's hard to go on the road 
and lose two in a row and come 

!­


DOWN 
HIll 
~~a IT~UfP 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 24 SWISS VALLEY 
BUS lEAVES liBRARY CIRClE AT 5:00PM 
COST: $27.00 INClUDES liFT TICKET. RENTAl AND TRANSPORT 
$18.00 liFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONlY RETURN BUS lEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 PM BEGINNER lESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
REGISTER AND PAY, IN ADVANCE AT k?.ec..~z.;;=. 
DEADLINE: JANUARY 23 
o you want to Volunteer as a Teacher, 
a coach, or in a Social Service Position? 
Consider the: 
A representative will be in the 
Center for Social Concerns 
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 at 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. 
Look us up on the web at: http://www.academic.marist.edu/mvp/ 
back and lose some more games at home," Garrity said. "No one on this team likes losing. Everyone came from winning high school programs and everyone has a lot of pride in our team." 
Part of the process involves knowing how to establish that consistency. There is no secret formula. Just a need to be smarter with the basketball. 
"We just need to be more pa­tient and know when the good the shots are going to come," Garrity added. "We got to learn that if something's shut ofT right away, not to just go and shoot the ball to get the pressure off. We got to learn not to turn the ball over against pressure. Once we start to get good open shots, that's when those baskets are going to start going during those tough stretches." 
It is those stretches which have been killing the Irish all season. In the loss to Villanova last week, a Pete Miller three­pointer closed the Wildcat lead to one point midway through the second half. That basket would be the last Irish score for six minutes as Villanova used a 14­0 run to pull away. 
It was after this loss that Notre Dame hit their lowest point this season. The win Saturday against the 0-rangemen could not have come at a better time according to Garrity. 
"I was really happy because to tell you the truth, we were really discouraged as a team," he said. "We had lost that knowledge of how to win games that we had over Christmas break when we were down in games and were able to come back. Getting a lead and holding it like that was a positive (against Syracuse)." 
A repeat performance might have a Joyce Center crowd, notorious for sitting on their hands, rocking tonight against Seton Hall. 
"Sure, it's frustrating to look up and see the yellow seats empty or the student section get filled 10 minutes into the game," Garrity said. "Other places we go, I got them yelling at me 30 minutes before the game. But I also understand that it comes with winning. When you have a program that is not winning people do not want to come and watch. We deserve attention when we start playing good bas­ketball." 
Maybe then an Irish fan will hold up a sign declaring Notre Dame 1998 Big East Champions. 
Nothing would please Garrity more. 






The Observer 
is accepting applications for: 
1997-1998 Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Liz Foran by .5:00p.m., Friday, January 24, 1997. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Liz Foran at 631-4.542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 

February 1st, Saturday University of Notre~ Dame 
---~-----------­

Wednesday, January 22, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 IRI"-:AM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
II API'\ BIRTHIM\~ Il\i THE NEXT YEAR OF YOLR LIFE: New responsibilities could wc1gh heavily on your shoulders. Be sure to take an occasional dav or week­end oil. Children's activities and creative project> will sic for y()ur attention in April. Let youngsters know they can always count on you. A delightful romantic diversion is l'eatured as summer hc£ins. Your personal life becomes m~ore fulfill­ing. Get your facts straight before closing a major husincss deal. A long-term agreement promises last­ing job security. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Linda Blair, actress Piper Laurie, poet Lord Byron. rapper Jazzy Jeff 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take frequent short breaks from work if your energy level is low. A new relationship needs more time to develop. Dealing with negative peo­ple leaves you feeling drained. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Luck is with you' A hobby could lead to extra income or even a full­time job. Your social life accelerates. Drinking and driving do not mix. Use public transportation or ask friends for a ride. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may misinterpret your remarks; explain what you meant. If you leave your money or resources unprotected today, others may try to appropriate them. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Watch out for financial surprises.
DTLBERT 
CATB(R,T: EVIL H.R. DIRECTOR 
EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY) THE COMPt>..NY WlLL NO LONGER ALLOW TIME OfF FOR. 11-\( DE.A.TI-\ OF A. Ff>.JV\ILY MEMBE.R. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
rourinc t:hon:~. P1ck up on po:..JIJ\l' 
thoughts. Unexpected developments 
could convince you 10 change cer­
tain social plans. 
VIRGO !Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It\ a good day to shop, write letters and discuss business plans with a knowl­edgeable friend. Expect to get t()p dollar for your work' 
LIBRA !Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It your vitality is low. take it easy. This is not the time to tackle chores involving physical exertion. When devising a budget, allow for emcr~ gencies. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 1 Take a tip about your appearance from someone who is fashion-con­scious. You want to make an excel­lent impression wherever you go' Your popularity soars when you let others do more of the talking. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21): An older individual may be boastful or act superior. Let this per­son's remarks go hy without com­ment. Gossip is best ignored. Rei) on your instincts when making a decision about romance. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone is determined to make you pay for an idle comment. Guard your speech in the future. A cun-ent romance may not be what you envi­sioned. Make constructive change, if hoping to salvage the relationship. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181 A confrontation could spell the end to a troubled relationship. Do not let a meddlesome friend influence you1 decision. A candid discussion with " 



0 
" 
-'" 
0 @"' 
"' 
" 
"'0 
I­I­
"' 
0 
" 
"' 

THIS "f~I"\IL'I' FRIENDLY'' POL1C.Y WILL fl.EMO'VE. YOUR I~CE.NTIVE 1'0 
E.'I..TEND V/:\Ct\TIONS 
C>Y KILLING RELATIVES. 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Brighton pub 6 Retreat 10 Pull an all-nighter 14 Mitchell family name 
15 One, to Wilhelm 
16 Procter & Gamble soap 
17 Like an inner tube, geometrically 
18 Catch 
19 Kind of rock 
20 Lo-o-o-ong efforts from a QB? 
23lt must be followed 
24 Hot times on the Riviera 
25 It runs up trees 
28 Computer adjunct 
~ 
30 Jack of clubs, in cards 33 Geographical datum 35 Early baby word 
3&0newho's practical and tidy, they say 
38 Switches receivers? 42 Tin can's target 43 60's singer Little 
44 Memorable New York Met Tommie 
45 Prospector's need 46 Pompous pronoun 50 Minerva, symbolically 51 Coin catalogue rating 

52 Swamp thing 
54 Navy's anti-Army strategy? 

so Betting sum 
61 Suffix with switch 62 More foxy 63 Teen Beat cover subject 
64 Ivy League power 

65 Floor worker 
66 Address with ZIP code 10001: Abbr. 
67 Elder or alder 
68 Pimlico garb 
DOWN 

1 Sen. Trent 2Cry of excitement 3 N.F.L. co-founder Jqe 
4 Constellation near Perseus s Prepare to tie 
shoes 6 Envoy's assignment 7 Open to 
breezes B Peeved 9 Payback word 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
53 CCCXXVI 59 Misreckons

10 Teacher's 31 Discredited Veep 
Wanted: Reporters,
doubled 60 Hem holder 
charge 

32 Fashion figure 11 Word with arms or foot Crest"
34 Alicia of "Falcon ·-------------­
photographers and editors. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
37 Tax-deferred

12 Hertz rival are available by touch-tone phone: 
13 Daft plan, for short 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Join The Observer staff. 
39 Uncomplaining 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 40 Burnt, or best of Sunday crosswords from the last practically so 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 

ARE YOU CONCERNED BY THE HIGH COST OF TEXTBOOKS?? 
Consider These Facts: 

The average college student spends more money on beer than books each semester (about $446.00 per student}. 


Fact 2: On average, about one third of a college student's discretionary income is spent on alcohol. 
Fact 3: It's a lot better to cut back on alcohol than it is to cut back on textbooks. Just ask your professors. Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
--..~ 
.. 
....------------­
~--...._ 
I i 

SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll. 
Garrity leads the Irish in search for consistency 
Team takes small strides toward goal 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
Maybe it was a bit of prognostication, or maybe just luck. but during Pat Garrity's freshman year, one Notre Dame fan raised a homemade poster high into the air declar­ing Garrity the 1998 Big East Player of the Year. 
It wasn't as if the fan was go­ing out on a limb. Early in his career, fans and experts alike witnessed the flair with which he played. 
The fluid movement with or without the ball. His smooth shooting stroke. An ability to execute in the clutch. 
Three years later. Garrity is ahead of schedule, possibly on track to becoming the 1997 Big East Player of the Year. Following a 22 point perfor­mance in Notre Dame's 73-58 win over Syracuse last Saturday, the native of Monument, Co. is in a heated battle with Georgetown's Victor Page for the Big East scoring lead. Garrity and the Irish will take to the Joyce Center court tonight against Seton Ilall, seeking consecutive Big East wins for the first time since Notre Dame joined the confer­ence last year. 

· f d p t G · 1 d h · · · · The Observer/Rob Finch 
Jun1or orwar a arnty ea s t e lnsh this year 1n sconng and currently ranks 20th in the nation with his 21.7 points per game average. 
see GARRITY I page 18 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBALl 
Morgan leads team to victory 
By JOE CAVATO Sporrs Writer 
The Scarlet Knights of Rutgers walked on to the floor of the Joyce Center with ideas of upset on their minds. Notre Dame's All-American candi­date Beth Morgan cleared their minds. 
Aided by a tenacious Irish defense and a relentless transition offense Morgan jumped all over the Knights with ten points in the first five minutes on her way to 20 for the half and 26 on the night. 
"We are able to create more shots in transition," com­mented Notre Dame's all time leading scorer. "They don't get a chance to set up and I was just shooting the ball well tonight." 
Indeed, Morgan was 7-11 in the first stanza before cooling 
off a bit in the second as she
,­
1 ­
finished 9-18 from the field.
I 
"Morgan killed us tonight, that's the long and short of it," Rutgers head coach Vivian Stringer remarked. "She's just a great player." 
"We just couldn't stop Morgan," expressed Rutgers
• 

i" 
G 

center Susan Blauser. "I think we had our fingernails on the ball but it still went in." 
Head coach Muffet McGraw saw her team pick up their sixth win in a row with a 76-61 triumph which pushes their season record to 16-4 and a perfect 8-0 in the Big East. 
Going into the game the Irish were not going to underesti­mate the now 5-12 Knights. Last season the two team split their two meetings as the Irish were upset in New Jersey and Rutgers became the only Big East team other than Connecticut to defeat the Domers. 
"All I remember from the last time we played them was that we couldn't put the ball in the ocean," Morgan said. "So we expected it to be a tough game." 
The home team jumped out to a 22-10 lead behind the sharpshooting of Morgan and the smooth running game lead by guards Jeannine Augustin and Mollie Peirick who fin­ished the game with 10 and 6 assists, respectively. 
"We just needed to be patient on offense when they 
vs. Seton Hall Tonight, 7 p.m. 
vs. Georgetown 

X 
January 25 at Penn State Meet January 24-25 
vs. St. Cloud State

\_ January 24 
put pressure on us and spot the open player," Augustin explained as she tied a carel:!'r high with assists on just three turnovers. "We also had a lot of fast breaks which helped cut down on our turnovers." 
The Knights managed to pull within four with eight minutes left in the half behind 13 points from freshman guard Usha Gilmore before the Notre Dame closed the half with a 16-8 run to give them a 12 point lead. 
After the break, senior for­ward Rosanne Bohman got things going with a couple of jumpers on her way to 13 points and seven boards for the contest. 
Katryna Gaither dominated down low as she was unstop­pable when she got the rock in the post with 14 points on 6-9 shooting. Gaither was also a force on the defensive end with seven boards two blocks and four steals in just 28 minutes of action. 
The 2-3 zone defense of the Domers triggered a 22-2 run whieh pushed the scoreboard 
see B-BALL I page 14 
• fENCING 
Squad anticipates PSU showdown 
By DAVID FRICK Sports Writer 
Despite the temptation to focus on next weekend's showdown against last year's national champion Penn State, the fencing team performed to their lofty potential by placing strongly both in the women's meet at Northwestern and the individual meet at Louisville. By going undefeated at Northwestern, the women as­serted that they are ready for the big meet on Jan. 24-25. 
"The meet was a good tune-up for this weekend and gave us a good feeling about our performance," says sophomore foilist Nicole Paulina. 
This glow of exuberance was shown throughout the entire squad. By giving the team one of its three undefeated perfor­mances, freshman epeeist and foilist Magda Krol provided a state­ment that the team would provide good competition come next weekend. 
"The victory puts us in good shape and gives us a positive atti­tude to start off the season," says Krol. 
The undefeated performances of Krol, junior epeeist Anne Boos, and sophomore Myriah Brown were crucial in giving the team an overall strong performance. 
"The team performed very well and very consistent. When you have three individuals go undefeated, it obviously gives a solid result," said head coach Yves Auriol. 
Though the Northwestern meet did not offer the strongest com­petition in the nation, this gave the less experienced members an opportunity to shine. 
see FENCING I page 14 

Indoor Track vs. Indiana January 25 
• Freshmen excel in indoor season

., • 
Men's Tennis vs. DePaul 
January 25 
see page 16 Basketball vs. Manchester 
• Jordan pours in 51
S(t 

January 23 see page 15Swimming vs. DePauw
S{t

'l January 30 






