

Monday, September 8, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 11 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
World remembers, celebrates life of Mother Teresa 
By RANJAN ROY Indian musician, filed quickly Father Ambrose, said Sunday. 
Associated Press Writer through the church, stopping Members of the Missionaries for just a few moments before of Charity said Mother Teresa CALCUTTA, India the body. would be buried in the court-
Barefoot paupers, movie stars The University of Notre Dame yard of the order's headquar­and government leaders wept honored Mother Teresa in 1993 ters, on the edge of a Calcutta and prayed beside Mother with its Notre Dame Award for slum. Teresa's body Sunday, paying humanitarian service, present-Prime Minister I.K. Gujral, their respects to a woman who ed annually to persons "within who visited St. Thomas' Church embraced both the w h e r e poor and the pow-M o t h e r erful. T e r e s a 
The Nobel Iaure-l a y ate and nun lay in Sunday, state at one of said that Calcutta's oldest just as and largest Catholic India had churches, in a fash-Mohandas ionable neighbor-Gandhi to hood that contrast-lead the ed with the slums f i g h t 
where she toiled Father Edward Malloy against during life. --------------------------poverty,
"Mother Teresa, hunger we will always love you," read and without the Catholic and injustice in the first half of a handwritten poster hanging Church, citizens· of every the century, so it had Mother from the neck of one grieving nation, whose religious faith Teresa to carry on that fight in child. has quickened learning, whose the latter half. 
Mother Teresa, who died of a learning has endangered deeds, Gujral has called for a state heart attack Friday night, lay and whose deeds give witness funeral, meaning Mother under a glass case on a plat-to God's kingdom among us." Teresa will be given the full form draped in the white and Mother Teresa's funeral military honors normally blue colors of her Missionaries Saturday will be held in the reserved for heads of state. of Charity order, her hands 10,000-seat stadium where That also makes it likely that folded across her chest. Pope John Paul II addressed the presidents and prime ministers 
Mourners, including barefoot faithful during his 1986 visit to from around the world will paupers, government leaders, a India, a spokesman for Calcutta attend. former beauty queen and an Archbishop Henry d'Souza, 
see MOTHER I page 6 

McGlinn Hall impresses dedication attendees 
Observer Staff Report 
Two weeks after its first genera­tion of residents moved in, McGlinn Hall was dedicated in a ceremony last Friday with McGlinn family members, their guests and hall residents in atten­dance. 
''I'm so impressed and proud of everyone's participation," said Sister Kathy Haas, rector of McGlinn. 
The celebration began with Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. with several Notre Dame graduates of the McGlinn family participating. Homilist Father Mark Poorman emphasized the responsibility of hall residents to develop new traditions and to cel­ebrate the institution of another Notre Dame community dedicated to the service of God. 
Following the Mass, guests pro­ceeded to the hall, where University President Father Edward Malloy offered a blessing of the building and its present and future staff and residents. 
The guests, including University officers and administrators, then toured the building with student guides. 
''I'm really impressed with the way the women of McGlinn have fixed up their rooms. The [guests are] really intrigued. Many other dorms don't have quite as impres­sive a set-up," Malloy said. 
After the tours. guests and resi­dents posed for a group photo in front of the building. A reception on the hall's lawn followed. and residents were given the chance to mingle with the McGlinn family. 
"They were the greatest people. They were really receptive, and it was cool to see how much they appreciated how much we appre­ciate them," McGlinn co-president Siobhan O'Brien said. 
Benefactor Terry McGlinn spoke to many of the hall's residents, commenting on the great tradition of the University. He noted that he understands that traditions must be upheld but that change can be beneficial. 
"I think it's wonderful. .. Everyone wants to see progress without change, but I think this is a great change," he said. 
McGlinn, a University alumnus, established McGlinn Capital, a small investment management firm in 1969. Today it is a fully­owned subsidiary of CoreStates Financial Corporation, a $48 bil­lion bank holding company. 
He was elected in 1994 to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees where he provides financial insight as vice president of the finance and endowment commit­tee. Prior to that position, he served for 11 years on the Advisory Council for the College of Business Administration. 
In addition to underwriting the construction of McGlinn Hall, the McGlinns were among the five principle benefactors of the University's two-year-old College of Business Administration com­plex. 
Research for this story was com­piled by Ann Marie Mattingly. Michelle Krupa contributed to this report. 
Fans join students for first pep rally in new stadium 
This weekend, Notre Dame students and fans celebrated the first football game of the season. Nate Carr (left), a sophomore, amuses the crowd during Friday night's pep rally at Notre Dame Stadium with his impersonation of Saturday Night Live's Matt Foley. Carr was one of two Carroll Hall students to speak at the pep rally as part of head coach Bob Davie's program to revitalize student body involvement. 
The Notre Dame Pom-Pon Squad (below) raises the crowd's spirits prior to the football team's arrival. A crowd of nearly 40,000, the largest in recent mem­ory at a Notre Dame pep rally, attended. 
The ObseJVer/Kevin Dalum 


Monday, September 8, 1997
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Our spirit of 


inclusion 
The question over gay and lesbian student rights has been a prominent issue at Notre Dame for years. I would contend that in the Student Senate and Campus Life Council we have spent more time confronting this issue 
than any other on cam­
pus. This month the 
debate culminated in a 
new development; the 
University published a 
document titled, "The 
Spirit of Inclusion." It 
calls students, faculty and 
administrators to make 

Notre Dame an exem-Brandon Williams 
plary world of Christian Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
love towards all ­
including gay and lesbian students. 
Nevertheless, the "Spirit of Inclusion" has 
already been much maligned. 
What exactly are the criticisms directed at 
this "Spirit of Inclusion"? There seems to be 
two somewhat divergent schools of thought 
on the matter. The first is the "that's what 
teams of lawyers are for" position that basi­
cally goes as follows: The University officers 
say that they didn't include sexual orientation 
into the non-discrimination clause because it 
could legally be interpreted as equivalent to 
the protection of homosexual activity, which 
is contrary to Church teaching. Subsequently, 
it is entirely possible that the University could 
not get a team of lawyers to design the non­
discrimination clause in a way that would 
prevent this judicial interpretation. This is 
especially possible considering our current 
legal milieu. 
What is more important, it seems to me 
tremendously presumptuous to assume that 
Notre Dame didn't consult a team oflawyers 
in their examination of this issue. If the legal 
impassability that I have postulated is inaccu­
rate, and during all those months of delibera­
tion Notre Dame didn't pursue every legal 
avenue available to include sexual orienta­
tion in the clause (without potentially com­
promising their capacity to uphold all rele­
vant Catholic teaching) then this "Spirit of 
Inclusion" is a product of hypocrisy from the 
start. Anyone who takes the "that's what 
teams of lawyers are for" position must be 
ready to accept this consequence. Personally, 
I am not ready to do so. It is my hope and 
belief that the officers are sincere in their 
convictions. I have no reason to believe oth­
erwise. 
The other position is essentially the con­
tention that people don't want a Church that 
doesn't respond to the people. Thus, Notre 
Dame should give students what they want 
despite Catholic teaching. Yet, it is a basic 
premise of Catholicism that it represents an 
objective and eternal law, one that is above 
and beyond the sundry opinions of man. A 
Catholic university cannot exchange the 
tenets of its divine faith for the dictates of a 
temporal humanity as the basis of its deci­
sions. Thus, it seems that people who simply 
do not agree with the Church's full teaching 
on this matter should take their case to the 
Vatican, not to Notre Dame, a university 
called to live by the creed of the former. 
So where does this leave us? It is time for 
all of us, especially those who agree with 
what I have written, to start living out the 
"statement of inclusion." It is time for us to 
start loving our neighbors -gay and 
straight. It is time to truly make Notre Dame 
the place of Christian love that this document 
envisions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Toruw's STAFF 
News Graphics Sarah Hiltz Melissa Weber Sean Smith Production 
Sports Sarah Hiltz Kathleen Lopez Michelle Krupa Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen Brandon Candura Accent Meg Kroener Nate Wills 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wm11.o AT A GlANCE 
Israel arrests 100 Palestinians for last week's bombing 

JERUSALEM Israel has arrested 100 Palestinians 
in response to a deadly bombing last 
week and is demanding the extradition 
of the Palestinian Authority's police 
chief, authorities said Sunday. Those 
detained, believed to be Palestinian 
militants, were taken for interrogation 
by Israeli security forces, the army 
said. The West Bank sweep follows 
Thursday's triple suicide bombing that 
also killed four Israelis. Palestinian 
leader Yasser Arafat has denied that 
the bombers came from territory 
under his control. "Palestinians have 
not been involved in the attacks," he 
said. Recognizing the further escala­
tion of tensions, leaders on both sides 
are hoping a visit to the region later this week by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright will help revive the moribund peace process. Israel wants Albright to pres­
sure Arafat to crack down on militant groups including Hamas, which claimed responsibility for Thursday's attack. "Only the United States can persuade the Palestinian Authority at this point to crack down," David Bar-Illan, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's spokesman, said Sunday. Last week, three bombers killed themselves and four Israelis on a mall in the heart of Jerusalem. On July 30, two suicide bombers killed 15 Israelis at an outdoor market in Jerusalem. In Jordan, security officials· arrested Hamas spokesman Ibrahim Ghosheh, his son said Sunday. There was no immediate comment from Jordanian security agencies. Meanwhile Friday, Netanyahu's Cabinet said no more West Bank land would be transferred to Palestinian authority until Arafat strikes at the infrastructure of the 
organizations. 
Pavarotti helps Moscovites celebrate 
MOSCOW 

With fireworks, prayer and Luciano Pavarotti, Moscow concluded three days of festivities Sunday commemo­rating its 850th anniversary. As on the previous two days, millions of people glutted the capital's streets for the oversized birthday bash, bringing the city to a gleeful standstill. Months of frantic preparation paid off, and most 


of the weekend's events went off without a hitch. The weekend's events -pageants and concerts in Red Square, a laser light show in the Lenin Hills, a parade down Tverskaya Street -all presented an image of a city that desperately wanted to shed the gray image of Soviet times and be seen as a modern, progressive world capital. In a speech at the closing ceremonies, Luzhkov declared Moscow's aim: to lead Russia to "achieve the greatness and the power that we have the right to declare to the whole world." Luzhkov has been men­tioned as a possible presidential candidate to succeed Boris Yeltsin when the president's second term ends in 2000. For the closing ceremonies, nearly 45,000 people packed the new stadium to cheer a production that fea­tured marching bands, ballet and large dollops of Russian music, both classical and popular, against a backdrop of acrobats, balloons and laser-generated images. 
New surgery treats heart disease 
LINCOLN PARK, Mich. 

A woman crippled by heart disease now feels like running around the block after becoming the first person in this country to receive an experimental new laser heart surgery, The Detroit News reported Sunday. Instead of the trauma of major open-heart surgery, Denise Cameron underwent a procedure in which a laser was threaded into her heart through a blood vessel and used to drill tiny holes in the heart wall, the newspaper said. She was awake through much of the operation and was sent home to Lincoln Park the next day. "This seems like a miracle to me," Ms. Cameron, 41, said of the operation at Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak. The operation could benefit as many as 10,000 patients with conditions like Ms. Cameron's, Beaumont spokeswoman Colette Stimmel said. Ms. Cameron, who had undergone eight previous operations to open her heart blood vessels, was able to get the laser procedure through special compassionate approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Ms. Cameron's Aug. 14 surgery followed successful procedures in Argentina and Italy with the Eclipse laser. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 8. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


Sinn Fein leader visits prisoners 
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. 

An Irish republican leader visited three escapees from a Belfast prison awaiting extradition to England before attend­ing a rally to build support for peace talks scheduled for this week. Martin McGuinness -chief negotiator for Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army -visited the men, Saturday all self-proclaimed Irish nationalists who were among a group that escaped from Belfast's Maze prison in 1983. A federal judge in August agreed to extradite the three -Kevin Barry Artt, Pol Brennan and Terrance Kirby -to Britain, rejecting their argu!llents that they would be persecuted because they were Catholic and sup­ported a united Ireland. Such persecution is grounds to deny extradition under a 1985 treaty between the United States and Britain. Artt and Brennan were convicted of murder, and Kirby of possessing explosives. "I fmd them in very good form," McGuinness said. "It find all three of them very sup­portive of (the peace talks)." The three were arrested in California in 1992-93, all living under assumed names. They were freed on bail in 1995. About 700 turned out for the fund raiser after McGuinness's visit to the federal detention center in Pleasanton, including state Sen. Tom Hayden and Mayor Willie Brown. Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams met Wednesday with President Clinton's national security advis­er, Sandy Berger. The group is scheduled to formally enter the negotiations Tuesday but two pro-British parties have already vowed to boycott the process. 
Pressue for profits forces OB to quit 
LAWRENCEBURG, Tenn. 

As the sole obstetrician in the only hospital in Tennessee's rural Lawrence County, Frank Chuck delivered nearly 100 babies and $1 million in patient fees last year. That wasn't enough for Columbia!HCA Healthcare Corp., the nation's biggest for-profit hospital chain. Columbia Crockett Hospital in Lawrenceburg gave him a choice: a pay cut from $240,000 to $170,000 or the door. He chose the door, and starting this month women in labor will have to drive 45 minutes to another hospital so he can deliver their babies. "I had my other two at Lawrenceburg and I wanted to have this one there," said Trina Minatra. However, she is follow­ing Chuck to have him monitor her pregnancy-induced dia­betes and deliver her baby, instead of ageneral practitioner at Crockett. "I didn't want to switch doctors." The profit pressure that left Lawrence County, which is 71 miles south­west of Nashville, without an obstetrician also helped make Columbia the target of federal investigators. And it began affecting patient care immediately after Columbia's 1994 takeover of Hospital Corp. of America, current and former hospital employees say. 


Monday, September 8, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Students seize White House opportunity Saint Mary's 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
News Writer 
With the help of the White House Intern Program, four Notre Dame students were given the opportunity to spend their summers working for vari­ous branches of the U.S. gov­ernment. 
According to Carolina Arroyo, a staff member in the govern­ment department, applications for the program are available to any Notre Dame student. Among those students seeking academic credit, however, pri­ority is given to government majors. 
Emily Pfiffner, who will be studying in Innsbruck this semester, worked reviewing applications of other interns. Justin Sandberg, a senior, was given a clerical position in the office of Bob Nash, who is an assistant to President Clinton and director of presidential per­sonnel. Sandberg, who heard about the program through the Princeton Review Internship Bible, stressed that there were many factors to consider, including finances, before accepting the internship. 
"You have to consider the 
money, since you don't get paid 
"It's wasn't much of a vaca­tion, but it was what I had to do in order to go," Upp said. 
Upp worked in the Women's Initiatives and Outreach Office as a message and scheduling coordinator for Clinton's staff and constituencies. A highlight of the job was sitting in on meetings, where she observed discussions about such issues as women's health, domestic vio­le nee and abortion. Overall, Upp found the work load of the program to be "very stressful, but worthwhile." 

a background investigation and drug test conducted by the gov­ernment which are required to apply. For junior Raam Jani, the application process was also easy, but he was worried that his age would work against him. 
"As a sophomore, my resume was pretty much in shambles. The hardest part was getting it to look decent," Jani said. 
Jani added that Career Placement Services was very helpful in improving the mar­ketability of his resume, landing him an internship in the Schedule and Advance Office. He worked directly for the director of scheduling corre­spondence, who is "basically in charge of correspondence to President Clinton's constituency and organizing their scheduling requests," Jani explained. 
Jani said his summer experi­ence was "unbelievable" and a great opportunity for students to decide if they want to pursue a career in government. He emphasized the value of seeing the daily functions of the upper echelons of government, not as an untouchable, ancient institu­tion, but as any other office where business is conducted and decisions are made. 
"The White House is just a 
bunch of normal people. They 
make the same mistakes every­
one else makes, and sometimes 
even more," Jani said with a 
laugh. 

Normally, the White House 
conducts two sessions during 
the summer. All of this past 
year's Notre Dame interns 
worked during the first session, 
from May 14 to July 3. The 
deadline for applications to next 
summer's internship program is 
March 1. Applications can be 
found in the government office. 
TIAA··CREF. 
Proven 
Soiutions 
To Last 
a Lifetime. 
We take a lot of pride in gaining high marks from the major rating services. But the fact is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get in the mail every day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF, ensuring the finan­cial futures of the education and research community is something that goes beyond stars and numbers. So from traditional and variable annuities to life insurance and personal savings plans, you'll find we provide the right choices-and the dedication-to help you achieve a lifetime of financial goals. The rating services back us up. So does Bill. 
To receive a free Personal Investing Kit, including charges and expenses, plus our variable annuity prospectuses, call us at 1 800 226-0147. Please read them carefully before you invest or send money. www.tiaa-cref.org 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.'M 


•SourcP.· Mormngstar, Inc, June 1997 Mornmgstar 1s an mdependent serv1ce that rates mutual funds and vanable annUJtJes. The top 10% of funds man mvestment category receive five stars and the next 22.5% rece1ve four !>tars Mormngstar propnetary 1atmgs reflect h1stoncal nskadJusted performance, and are subJect to change every month They are calculated from the account's three·. five., and ten year average annual returns m excess of 90·day Treasury bill returns w1th appropnate fee adjustments, and a risk factor that refllcts performance below 90·day T·btll returns The overall star ratmgs referred to above are Mornmgslar's publiflhed-ratmgs. which are weighted averages of 1ts three·. f1ve-. and ten-year ratings for periods ending June 30.1997. The separate (unpublished) ratings for each of the penods me 
Period  CREF Stock  CHEF Bond  CREF Social  CREF Global  CHEF Equity  CREF Grcwtb  
Account  Marg1.AccQ1,Ult  ChQjce Ac_g_gunt  Eqg(ties ~~CQ9-nt,  {!ldex_,t\__g__qoyn_t  ~ccoun~  
Star RatmgjNumber  Star Rating/Number  Star Ratmg,!Number  Star Ratmg/Number of  Star Ratmg/Number of  Star Ratmg/Number of  
of Domestic Equ1ty  of F1xed Income  of Domestic Equtty  International Equ1ty  Domestic Equity  Domestic Eqmty  
Accounts Rated  Accounts Rated  Accounts Rated  Accounts Rated  Accounts Rated  Accounts Rated  
3-Year 5-Year 10-Year  4/1.423 4/924 4/441  4/566 4/364 N/A  4/1.423 4/924 , N/A  5/274 5/158 N/A  5/1.423N/AN/A  5/1.423 N/A N/A  

anticipates Selby visit 
By MEGAN MCKEON News Writer 
Indiana Supreme Court Justice Myra Selby will visit Saint Mary's College this after­noon at 4 p.m. 
The Cultural Commission of the Student Activities Board is sponsoring Justice Selby's appearance. Saint Mary's new president, Marilou Eldred and a representative from the mayor's office, among others, are expected to attend. 
"I feel having speakers such as Justice Selby, the first female African-American in Indiana's Supreme Court exposes Saint Mary's women to the unlimited possibilities and achievements they can make in their own lives," said student activities board cultur­al chairwoman Tysus Jackson. 
Selby will speak to students in the parlor of the Haggar College Center, with a recep­tion immediately following. 
Selby was appointed justice to the Indiana Supreme Court in January of 1995. Prior to her appointment, she was the Director of Health Care Policy for the State of Indiana from July to December 1993. 
She practiced law for 13 years in the law firm of Seyfarth Fairweather & Geraldson and in the firm of Ice Miller Donadio & Ryan of Indianapolis. 
Selby graduated from Kalamazoo College in 1977 with a Bachelor's degree. While at Kalamazoo College she was awarded the Kellogg academic scholarship. 
Justice Selby is a 1980 grad­
uate of the University of 
Michigan School of Law. 
She has served on the 
Indianapolis Ballet Theatre 
Board of Directors, 
Indianapolis Museum of Art 
Board of Directors and Indiana 
University/Purdue University at 
Indianapolis Board of 
Advisors. 
Justice Selby serves on the 
Board of Directors Executive 
Committee of the National 
Health Lawyers Association. 
She has served as a member 
of the Indianapolis Bar 
Association Ethics Committee, 
the Indiana State Bar 
Association Commission on 
Women in the Legal 
Profession, Marion County 
Judicial Study Commission, 
National Bar Association. She 
serves as a Faculty Member of 
the Health Risk Management 
Certificate Program from MMI 
Companies. 
and D.C. is an expensive city," said Sandberg. 
Senior Carrie Upp agrees that working a night job while in Washington was a difficult but necessary part of the intern­ship. 


Upp and Sandberg agreed that the application process was rather easy. Two letters of rec­ommendation, one writing sam­ple, and a one-page essay of why they wanted to be interns at the White House, along with 
..ThE'S( top ratmgs are ba!>-ed onTIAA's exceptional fmanc~al strength. clamlS·paymg abi!Jty and overall operatmg performance ***Source DALBAR.Inc .1995 CREF cert1hcates are distributed by TIAA CHEF IndiVIdual and InstJtUtJonal Services. For more complete mlormauon. mcludmy charges and expenses. please read the CREF Prospectus offered above. Read it carefully before you lllV8St OJ send nlOilQY 
_j 
~---------------------------­

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 8, 1997 
Pfa!oA~riJ~m.Jil_~WT_,.. ,atJrlitOt:Yllt~W nfitiopwide
By HEATHER MACKEJ~ZIE Assistant News Ediror t> . 
Princeton Ul1iVeJ,"sity stud were greeted ·warmly this 
~~;n~~;~ h~~J::~ ~~t~~b~
1 
and $25 vouchers for new flo­rescent lamps+. The VO~Cll,f.!rS 

:~:o~u%~ 7£:!.~r;la~;~.~t~; 
university officials told students 

for ~inance andAdministr~tion, . needed to light a florescent s DickSpies1 t'llc;> .. _.,... Jth~. $ is.l~wer}h{l.n a halogen._ dents will be roor ___ fe wli e energy savings Will be 
tj),eir.ro~J:Il~·-": 4• .• .. ) 
enlainps have be e ···· ?~~:to erous <lot' __ ~;.ii!iii'-' Hopef~lly, the stu~ ,p::t~~~even y~se{ _ • .denfs'\¥ill be 'thes~~ligq~g py¢!;131. more .s;(:lfe when light· .:~:t:~~~:1:t ·-. trated· ing t~~~ rooms.' The new 39-watt ;e 
last year that they would no ..pulp~ thatPr n stu~ent~."' _·_.·· ;~j{ _.. _ D_ick Spies longer be allowed' to use halo•.J:••will be using ~orcUng t6 ···· ·Princeton University gen lamps in their dorm rooms the task forcet~ research, pro~ because of safety concerns. n q;;duce: ail'Jou~ the $c:t.llle a:m.ount.p{. :-.:·· ..•• 
"This new plan adopts the lightashalogenihl,l}b Although ;·· solutiqn recOm,plended by a ..tfl:e:f1Pr · · task force of undergraduates, from ab con$id~t~ble;~ Spies said, also graduates, l1Jld<J:dn1inistrator,s,'' noyng ~~at princeton would said Princeton Vice-presid~nt say_e ab~:n;~t $3.0 per lamp per 
year.  _\tt  .  .  
. Alth()Ugh )~ o  Darne ha,s  
also had proble  th halogen  

lamp fires in t~ e past, the University. currently>has>iio 
plans to b~~ ~al~genuse. Last 

~~!;:~i;!: b~~! ~~rir:;;:;:\~~~ 
the.prob1(,t,lp'" ~ycordlng .to 

~=:~r;i:::!s~~:ft~rd~~i!i~~ 
about the lamps has yet to be made. _ _ _. . _ 
Bob Zerr, h.ead ofthe commit­tee, recommended that students n(lt use-the lamps, even though no formal han on the use is in place..... _ ._. _ _.. ___ . _ 
But there is a way that Notre Dame students can make their lamps more safe! some halogen lamp companies offer a guard device to place over the halogen bulb so that nothing can be placed directly on the bulb. 
Megan Fry. a McGlinn Hall res!d~nt, has one of these 
d~~ch!y were offering the devices as part of the promotion 

~s~u:h~~ee~a~·~a~~ ~~~P~~ 
and discovered that the guards are available free of charge to anyone who requests them. "We want these lamps to be 
safe._-. for the pub1ic," said Jennifer Murray, a customer representative from the U-Lamp 
Company. "We wilido whatever we can to ensure the safety of our customers." 
Lou lives on... 



Interested in planning the activities for your class? 
Freshman Class Board Elections Coming Soon ... 
Mandatory Informational Meeting September 8 & 9 at 7:00pm In Haggar Parlor 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Student reaction to the Bob Davie cheer was mixed. Many could not break with the tradition of cheering for former football head coach Lou Holtz during the band's playing of the 1812 Overture. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. ANGJER§9 FRANC 1998-99 Academic Year "Top Ten Reasons You Should Not Go To Angers" With Professor Paul McDowell Tuesday, September 9, 1997 7:00pm Room 313 DeBartolo Returnin Students will be on hand to answer uestions  Students: Don't miss these important meetings planned by the Student Activities Office: Food Service Training: *If you plan to run a football concession stand or have food at an event, at least one representative of your organization must attend one of these training sessions* Thursday, 9/4 at 5:30p.m., Foster Room Wednesday, 9/10 at 5:00p.m., Montgomery Theatre Social and SYR Chair Training Monday, 9/8 at 6:00p.m., Montgomery Theatre Vendor Fair *Meet vendors who have products for your concession stands or fund raisers and the latest in imprinted items* Monday, 9/8 at7 -10 p.m., Ballroom Clubs and Organizations Meetings *Attendance at one of these meetings is suggested for all clubs and organizations. You are encouraged to attend the meeting which represents your group; however, if a different time works better, please attend that meeting Wednesday, 9/10 at 8:00 p.m. (Special Interest clubs) Thursday, 9/11 at 4:00p.m. (Ethnic clubs) Thursday, 9/11 at 6:00p.m. (Academic clubs) Monday, 9/15 at 4:00p.m. (Athletic clubs) Monday, 9/15 at 6:00p.m (Social Service clubs) These meetings will be held in the Montgomery Theatre For information about these meetings or for assistance with your c/uq organization orhall cotncit contact the Student Activities Office at 631-1309 or stop by our office at 315 Lafortune Student Center  

Monday, September 8, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 



Israel's Lebanon policy faces attack from left and right 
By NICOLAS TATRO ment -have called for a Associated Press Writer reassessment. The criticism also comes from figures with solid JERUSALEM military credentials, signaling a 
A chain of disasters in break in the Lebanon has shaken Israeli con­consensus fidence and prompted a national that has kept debate Sunday on whether Israel Israel in should withdraw its troops or Lebanon change its tactics. despite steady 
Leading politicians from the losses. left and right -including some No less a members of Prime Minister hawk than 


Benjamin Netanyahu's govern-Ariel Sharon, Netanyahu 
Sunnymede Promotions presents . .. a benefit for LOGAN Center featuring the 1996 Grammy Nominees: 

£OJ>.Illful 


o.HLUES 

Friday, September 12 at 8:00pm State Theater, Downtown South Bend 
Tickets: $14.50 in Advance; $17.00 day of show Available at Morris Civic Box Office, Tracks in South Bend, Method Music in Elkhart, and Nightwinds in St. Joseph, Ml or call 235-9190 
and featuring as Opening Act: 
~ 
WHISTLE PIGS 


LOGAN
COMMON PRAIRIE DOG BRASS Discovertlte 'Potutlal 

a Cabinet minister and architect of Israel's 1982 Lebanon inva­sion, said Israel should revise its strategy or set up a timetable for leaving south Lebanon. 
Talk shows have been domi­nated by discussion of what Israel should do in the wake of its latest tragedy -the deaths Friday of a dozen Navy comman­dos out on a raid deep in Lebanon. 
Opposition politician Yossi Beilin, a key architect of the Palestinian-Israel peace accords, announced the formation of a movement to urge immediate, unilateral withdrawal from Lebanon. 
"It will be harder to fight against us when we are in Israel than in a foreign land," said Beilin, who said 1, 200 Israelis had died in Lebanon since 1982 in combat and in accidents. 
Several Cabinet ministers called for a special meeting on Lebanon, and Foreign Minister David Levy urged "a fundamen­tal assessment." 
Netanyahu promised a thor­ough review of Israel's methods of operation in Lebanon, but said Israeli forces would remain in the narrow border strip they occupy, backed by 2,500 Lebanese militiamen. 
"We all want to leave Lebanon under the appropriate condi­tions, but the rash statements about a hasty departure from Lebanon under pressure only encourage Hezballah," Netanyahu told Cabinet ministers Sunday. 
The key question facing Israeli policymakers is whether the Iran-backed Hezbollah militia fighting to expel Israel from Lebanon would stage cross-bor­der raids on northern Israel once Israeli troops left the buffer zone. 
David Bar-Illan, a senior advis­er to Netanyahu, said Israeli commanders could not guaran­tee the safety of border settle­ments if Israel withdrew. "No military authority will say this is safe for Israel," he told The Associated Press. 
Critics argue it was a mistake for Israel to link withdrawal from Lebanon to a peace agreement with Syria, making Israeli sol­diers hostages to a Syrian deci­sion. They contend Syria wants Israel to remain in south ·Lebanon because it saps Israeli strength and justifies the pres­ence of 40,000 Syrian troops in the rest of the country. 
Sharon, who masterminded the 1982 invasion of Lebanon that cost 650 Israeli lives, told the Haaretz newspaper that Israel had two choices: change its mode of operation to use more air attacks, or "redeploy according to a timetable of our own, regardless of peace negotiations with Syria." 
Gideon Ezra, a lawmaker from the ruling Likud Party and a for­mer deputy director of the Shin Bet security service, proposed earlier this year that Israel rein­force its border with minefields and high fences and then with­draw. 
But Yigal Carmon, a former anti-terrorism adviser who was part of Israel's negotiating team with Syria, said withdrawal might lead to an increase in bloodshed because Israel might retaliate more strongly if its northern settlements were attacked. 




BIENVENIDOS 
TVs& VCRs. 
30,000. 

THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 





SPIRIT ASCEN.DANT
3915 Grape Rd., Mishawaka {AIItronics location) 

THE ART OF PATROCINO BARELA 
You could earn: $30°0 after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 if you donate alone (first visit) 
$5°0 if you show college I. D. (first visit) 
$1 0°0 per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice. 

$30°0 TOTAL! 
IEi:.P us SAVE Ll~~· 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 

RECEPCION DES PUES DEL SIMPOSIO (CLOSING RECEPTION TO FOLLOW IN THE 
Come to: Hours: 
MUSEUM ATRIUM) 

AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9:00 -6:00 

ENTRADA ES GRATIS 

515 Lincolnway West Sat: 8:00 -5:00 

(FREE ADMISSION)

South Bend, IN 4660 1-1117 Ph. 234-6010 
page 6 


Mother 
continued from page 1 
The frail, 4-foot-11-inch nun was born in Albania but had become an Indian citizen. She had suffered heart problems and other ailments for years and gave up leadership of her order in March. 
Mother Teresa, who said she saw God in every suffering human being, began her charity work with just a few helpers in this eastern Indian city five decades ago. 
Her order now has more than 4,000 nuns and runs 517 orphanages, homes for the poor, AIDS hospices and other charity centers around the world. 
One man who broke down in 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 8, 1997 
Opens Nirmal Hriday ("Pure Heart"), a 
Persuades Israelis and Is re-elected superior general of her order despite 
home lor the dying, followed soon alter Palestinians to cease fire in her wish to step down. 
by her first orphanage. 
During sickness, Mother Teresa receives a calling from Jesus "to serve him among the poorest of the poor." 
Joins Sisters of Loretto, a Permitted to leave 
missionary order of nuns in her order and Agnes Gonxha India. Takes the name moves to Calcutta's Bojaxhiu born Sister Teresa. slums to set up her Aug. 27 in Skopje, jArrives in Calcutta to first school. 
(now Macedoma), teach at St. Mary's High Found th
1
youngest of three . School. Missio~ari:s children. Takes final of Charity. 
"'"*'··"'"'"'·····* .l..~m~:~owsa.sal":..~~n. ,•.• •m.P .'.' ~ •.•
• ~~••v ., ·''·' • •• ' ,., < X '·~::<1~}; " . ' 

;,J.~,:-v::.,::..< ...' ·,;:: ::7.-~·ii dfW:·:'·,,::_,' .d #¢...,?~ ,,,.;
ll­

1910 1928 1929 1937 1946 1947 1950 1952 1962 1979 1982 1983 1985 1989 19901991 1993 19961997 
order to rescue 37 retarded children from a hospital in 
besieged Beirut. 
Wins the Padma Shri award for "distinguished service." She uses the money from such prizes to found dozens of new homes. 
Wins Nobel Peace Prize. 
...l.··. ·.. : 
Awarded Medal of Freedom, the highest 
U.S. civilian award. 
Suffers a 
heart attack while in 
Rome visiting Pope John Paul II. 
Has a second and nearly fatal heart attack. Doctors implant pacemaker. 
I rw;.m 

Suffers from pneumonia in Tijuana, Mexico, which leads to congestive heart failure, and hospitalization in La Jolla, Calif. 
Nov. 16, granted March 13, honorary U.S. steps down citizenship. as head of 
her order. 
Undergoes Sept. 5, surgery to dies of clear blocked heart attack blood vessel at age 87. 



in ct;;:. ~ 
I ....

•.., 
• 
.J&\\m -·~ 

tears after seeing Mother Teresa's body said the Catholic nun's compassion transcended religious boundaries. 
"She worked for the people and never thought about whether we were Muslim or Hindu," said Mohinulisam, 38, who uses only one name. 
He said he saw Mother Teresa every day when she vis­ited a home for the aged near his leather shop in Calcutta. 
Mother Teresa died at the headquarters of her Missionaries of Charity, where she lived in a simple room. Her body lay in the order's small, dimly lit chapel, surrounded by flowers and praying nuns. 
But the chapel was too small to accommodate crowds, so the public viewing was delayed. 
Her body was moved early Sunday in a white ambulance, escorted by a police officer on motorcycle, as bells pealed in 
St.  Thomas'  Church  and  
anguished wails  rose  from  
mourners.  

Mourners began gathering before dawn. By the time the coffin arrived, the line snaked half a mile along the sidewalk in front of the chapel. 


At Work Program 
This REVOLUTIONARY program is coming to NO. 
Free information/registration. 
Date:Thursday, September 18 
Time:12:1 0-12:50pm 
Location:LaFortune, Foster room 
Contact:Jessica Brookshire 631-5829 _ 
This series starts September 25, for 1 0 weeks and includes all materials, cost $120. VISAJMC/Discover accepted. 


~----~-----~ ­
page 7

Monday, September 8, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
Feds arrest robbery suspect in Flint 
Associated Press 
PENDLETON, Ind. 

An Indianapolis man wanted for armed robbery and other federal charges has been arrested in Flint, Mich., under bizarre circum­stances, an FBI spokesman said Sunday. 
Gregory Charles Jones, 32, was arrested Saturday night after Flint police, responding to a 911 call, found him bound with duct tape in a house, said FBI spokesman Douglas Garrison. Once free, Jones offered police an alibi. 
"He said he was abducted on Tuesday night by three black males who bound him and left him there. That's where he says he's been these last few days-during the time we've been looking for him," Garrison said, adding, "We don't believe it." 
Authorities say that Jones and his cousin, Jerry Jones, 33, last 

A conference on the 
Final Marian Dogma 
• 
Coredemptrix 

• 
Mediatrix 

• 
Advocate 



Hayes-Healy Room 124 TONIGHT (9/8) 7:30 p.m. 
Given by David Wade, a brother in the community, ''Family ofMary Coredemptrix." All are welcome. 
Sponsored by Children of Mary and Knights of Immaculata 

Wednesday hijacked a service truck, kidnapped the driver and robbed a Chesterton, Ind., bank of about $100,000. Police say the cousins then kidnapped a Pendleton man and forced him to drive them to Indianapolis before releasing him unharmed. 
The two m\lillthave been charged in U.S. Distri~ Court with armed bank robbery and commission of a felony while armed. Gregory Jones is expected to be extradited to Indiana, where he faces state charges, within two days. 
Jerry Jones and a unidentified third suspect remain at large. 
Marion County authorities said Saturday they are investigating whether a .32-caliber handgun found in an apartment that Gregory Jones and Jerry Jones shared may be tied to the slaying of two men during a toy store rob­bery this spring. 
"There are some consistencies 
worth following up," said Marion 
County Deputy Prosecutor John 
Commons. 
The gun also may have been 
used in the robbery and slaying of 
Ronald Conner, 59, who was fatal­
ly shot at the Lawrence Gold Shop 
in Indianapolis on Aug. 13, police 
said. 

Investigators say Jerry Jones is a 
former employee of. Toy Works, 
the Indianapolis store where two 
workers were shot to death in a 
May 30 robbery. 
Jerry Jones also is a former 
neighbor of Sheila Lott, 29, who 
has been charged with conspiracy 
to commit robbery in connection 
with the Toy Works case, said 
Detective Sgt. Jan Kistler. 
Lott, another former Toy Works 
employee, told detectives that she 
had given information about the 
store's business workings to at 
least one other person before the 
fatal robbery, police said. 
Other royals strive for Diana's balance 
By DOUG MELLGREN Associated Press'Writer 
OSLO, Norway 
People today want their royals less aloof and more human, like Princess Diana. But how human? 
Swedes see their future queen kick up her heels at trendy bars with other 20­year-olds. Norway's 

crown prince Princess Diana 
hangs out at rock concerts. A Dutch prince works as an airline pilot. 
"We are supposed to live a lit­tle lie and believe that they are something special," Danish sociologist Johannes Andersen says. "That lie is wearing thin­ner and thinner." 
Britain's grief over Diana's death forced the British royal family to shed some aloofness. They joined the masses in mourning to show their human side -a side that Diana would display openly. 
Many in Japan expected Crown Princess Masako -a 33­year-old often called "Japan's Diana" -to bring a human face to that nation's tradition­bound royal family. 
Born a commoner, she was a rising star in her country's Foreign Ministry before she married Crown Prince Naruhito four years ago. Now, she is believed to be under pressure to produce an heir to the throne. 

"At times, I experience hard­ship in trying to find the proper point of balance between tradi­tional things and my own per­sonality," Masako once admit­ted. 
With a few exceptions, such as the royal houses of Thailand, Jordan and Saudi Arabia, mod­ern monarchies have no real power. They are symbols ­some say anachronisms. 
Denmark's popular Crown Prince Frederik, a 28-year-oJd bachelor, has said that young nobles also must adapt to the fact that they are no longer con­sidered divine. 
Andersen, a political scientist at Denmark's Aalborg University, said Frederick doesn't understand that a royal must maintain distance: "He simply lives life like anyone else. And in that way. Frederik can contribute to the end of monarchy without even know­ing it." 
Yet in places like egalitarian 
Norway, Sweden and Denmark, 
royals win vast public support 
by being down to earth. During 
a fuel crisis in the early 1970s, 
then-King Olav V insisted on 
saving gas by taking public 
transport. That helped secure 
his popular title as "The 
People's King." 
Scandinavian media generally 
respect privacy, allowing young 
royals to bar-hop, attend rock 
concerts and drive their own 
cars without excess attention. 
Norway's Crown Prince 
Haakon, 24, went to public 
school and is now a college stu­
dent in California. 

Old Navy Clothing Co., the store that makes shopping fun again, TM offers you the remarkable opportunity to be part of our exciting grpwth in the family value priced clothing market. 
page 8 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 8, 1997 

Get AT&T One Rate. FREE. And don't worry about the time or the distance. 
If you live off campus, choose AT&T Long Distance and sign up for AT&T 
• 
One Rate. Free. You'll also get a free one-year membership to Student 
Advantage®-the largest student discount program ever.
. 

• 
AT&T One Rate: only IS¢ a minute on calls from home-to anybody, 

anytime, anywhere in the U.S. 

• 
Student Advantage: use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors-like Kinko's~ Tower Records® and Amtrak~ 


Live off campus? Get AT&T One Rate and a Student Advantage membership. FREE. 
Call 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
-

It's all within your reach. 

Student Advantage offer valid for AT&T ReSidential Long D1stance customers. © 1997 AT&T 

----------------------~ --­
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 8, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor...................•........ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................••.. Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. M1ke Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........•••................ Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Edito< .... : ................... Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ............................ Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe. independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoinr Ediror, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views ofthe aui-hors, and nor neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Spores  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary"s  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.l@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• SENTIMENTAl RATIONALITY 
Are the Media all About Black and White? 
Many of you will remember last May when Fuzzy Zoeller, a slightly inebriated professional golfer, made a racial slur about Tiger Woods in front of the entire Masters media crew. Immediately the American media showcased this inci­dent. propelling black/white race rela­tions into the spotlight once again. It seems we hardly had time to forget 
Michael Peppard 

about the Rodney King trial, the O.J. Simpson trial or the president's cabinet appointees. And along came another "racial" issue to steal the spotlight, sub­ordinating the rest of the world's events. What will be the next story to fill the racism slot on the nightly news? 
Don't get me wrong, I'm not implying that issues of race are unimportant. In truth, I think they are so important that we should examine how we deal with them. The only time racism surfaces in public dialogue is in response to an inci­dent deemed "racial" between blacks and whites. For the most part, race relations involving other ethnicities are ignored. I acknowledge that these two groups hold a unique position in America's cultural melting pot, but that doesn't necessitate their disproportion­ate portrayal on TV and in the newspa­per. For each popularized instance of white/black racial tension, how many anti-Semitic or anti-homosexual occur­rences go unreported? 
Furthermore, the media don't help to abate racial tension through their style of reporting. In actuality, the media pro­liferate antagonism through a "politics of difference." That is, reporters accentu­ate the differences between groups instead of their similarities, thereby dri­ving the wedge deeper between whites and blacks. Instead of focusing on the elimination of racial stereotypes in gen­eral, reporters highlight the tension between the two particular groups. Instead of fostering constructive dia­logue about this issue, the media actual­ly encourage the taking of sides. 
I suppose all we can hope for from the media is consistency. If they really think that stereotypical generalizations are harmful, then they should expose them whenever they occur. If a professional athlete makes slanderous remarks against the Polish or the French, they should be reported as extensively as remarks about Mexicans or African­Americans. If the media truly cared about reporting the facts and eliminating ignorance, they would speak out against all forms of stereotypes. But as it is, they focus primarily on tension between blacks and whites. 
Then again, maybe I don't understand the function of the media properly. Perhaps my opinion is too idealistic, and they don't always care about reporting the facts and eliminating ignorance. In the spirit of American bottom-line prag­matism, maybe the media just give us what we want to hear. After all, the consumers pay the media's bills. 
So, who is at fault? Who would want racial tension to increase? I could blame capitalism, but that would be far too trendy. And this one can't be the government's fault. Is there anyone left to blame? Wait ... could it be? Could it be our fault that the media are fixated on a certain form of racial tension? 
My friends, I think it is partly our fault. America is addicted to the issue of white/black relations, and the media merely manifest that addiction. As was evidenced in the Rodney King trial. the 
O.J. Simpson trial and the Fuzzy Zoellerffiger Woods incident, we are sickeningly interested in the dichotomy between these two racial groups. Now, I'm not saying that the L.A.P.D. was innocent, O.J. was guilty, or Fuzzy Zoeller shouldn't have been reprimand­ed. All I'm saying is that we thrive on controversy between these two groups, the media acknowledge that, and they report on it constantly. 

In America, we watch the news as if it were an action movie or John Grisham's latest nail-biting suspense novel. In the same way that sex sells in magazines, books, and movies, racial issues sell in the news media. When we follow the latest case, our mentality is not of lamentation or concern but of "what's going to happen next?" Some hedonistic part of us wants to be entertained by the tragic and very real events in the news. And since the media depend on our monetary support, they feed our craving. They provide whatever commentary will make the news more action-packed and controversial. 
Even on our sacrosanct campus, stu­dents are strangely intrigued by any appearance of tension between whites and blacks. One example comes from the Bookstore Basketball tournament last April. Concerning one of the games. a friend said, "It just wasn't as fun this year-not as exciting, you know. There wasn't any racial tension like last year to fire up the crowd." Are you joking me? While racial tension may indeed fire up the crowd, it should fire them up to protest, not support, dividing lines of ethnicity. 
A simple conclusion emerges from all this banter about the media: America is oddly intrigued by racial tension, partic­ularly between whites and blacks. The media want to satisfy our appetite and thus report disproportionately on such "racial" issues. The only solution to our sickening disease is an awareness of attitude -to strive for consistency and love instead of e11tertainment and divi­siveness. 
Michael Peppard is a senior Arts and Letters major and currently resides in the attic ofa big old house. He wel­comes your comments at Michael.L.Peppard.2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer . 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 

"The fruit of silence is 
prayer. The fruit of prayer is faith. The fruit of faith is love. The fruit of love is service. The fruit of service is peace." 
-Mother Teresa 
• fROM THE lEFT 


Solidarity in the Heartland 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 8, 1997 
From the murky depths of Oakland, California, I write to you all. As certain as an American-made automobile rust­ing in a South Bend-style winter, my col­umn will be intrepidly delivered into your greased up Dining Hall paws every other Monday from here to eternity. Ah, Oakland! While not the same as gray­skied South Bend with its long-haired mullet patrols desperately seeking the Friday eve's melee, it too has its charms, from its downtown trash-strewn streets 
David McMahon 
to the more insidious Jack London Square -a commercial eyesore that prostitutes the great Oakland writer's name like so many wasted matches on a winter fire. 
I work on 35th Street as a social worker of sorts and live thirty blocks north in a working class Oakland neigh­borhood on the border of Berkeley. It is quite different than your standard South Bend digs in many ways that I will touch upon in later columns. But here, from the infernal beginnings of my left-lean­ing, anti-Charles Rice dogma column, I want to say welcome to South Bend to you all. What's that? South Bend is a separate entity from Notre Dame? Imagine that, an actual Midwestern city! Ah yes, dear reader, the "river city" has a charm and history uniquely its own, and I want to divulge to you some of the slow-churning culture on the banks of the famed Indian Sagwa river (St. Joseph river to the layman). I also hope to show you a slice of life as a union shop steward and social worker on the banks of the East Bay. 
I hope this column will be read after that peculiar phase of Notre Dame life: 
• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 

the slushy, almost fog-ridden density that most call "dorm parties," the goal of which is to swill cheap warm brew and sweat profusely to the strains of some soulless band. Many freshman and others will probably have graduated to the insanely packed bars of down­town South Bend and the police-free Jay's Lounge just over the border of Michigan, where a note signed by mom will guarantee entry. From that Neanrathal-like, blood-alcohol elevated state, where students perform all kinds of buffoonish pranks on the hapless townsfolk, is born the "town-gown" rivalry. 
Even though the scads of bushy tailed Notre Dame do-gooders deigning to con­descend to the poor neighborhoods dur­ing "Christmas in April" would feign believe it, there lies in South Bend a hid­den antagonism towards these legions of alcohol swollen, white hat wearing nin­nies. I too was that ill-informed ninny whose geographic knowledge was limit­ed by the JACC and the extremes of the lakes, with the occasional forage to CJ's, Macri's, or that horrid square eyesore known as "Bridget's." 
Dear reader, there is a life beyond the barbed wire fences of the Notre Dame golf course, although Patty O'Hara would discourage you from attaining this gem of secular forbidden fruit! Abundant, spacious apartments! Good, cheap food! Hoosier corn, character, and charm! History, old movie palaces, and architecture with drainage! In South Bend, men and women actually live together in sin. This much I know, or have heard. Gays, lesbians and bi­sexuals are free to meet! Children exist, and so do the elderly! You can use a spyglass on your professor's town house! You can save your parents' half of what they pay for room and board and learn a little about living in a com­munity! You can avoid such malicious slander-rags as the hideously ignorant capitalisVCatholic Right Reason. Amen! 
!learned all this the painful way ­suspension from Notre Dame, dorm vio­lations too numerous to count, extreme­ly low grades, and disciplinary proba­
.. 
tion. In fact, through secret channels, I learned that the R.A. 's of Morrissey Hall unanimously approved of me as the worst freshman of the year. I believe now, with all of my heart, that moving into the South Bend community is the real key to the Notre Dame experience -the antithesis of the Disneyland model offered by the designers and enforces of the medieval document, du lac. I found that once I moved off cam­pus, the. discordant cacophony of phony 

moralist voices became a distant din ­the Hush Limbaugh crowd remained trapped in their pseudo-intellectual cloud of foul nimbus; the sweaty, red hands of patriarchal hierarchy could not reach into my South Bend-law protected hamlet, and I could work with others to organize a resistance to the blatant dis­criminatory practices of the University. I learned to appreciate the University community from a different perspective: professors became neighbors and men­tors rather than merely lectures on high, the Center for Social Concerns became a vital resource, and students became more than "Domers," they were/are fel­low activists, creative artists and writ­ers, and ran the gamut from a grad. physics student with a smashed glasses' frame to a behemoth player of football who could crush my head like James south on 31, the summer only, white water rafting extravaganza known as East Race, the studios of WVFI. the birthplace of famed BeaVanarchist poet Kenneth Rexroth, Coveleski Stadium. And for the 21 and over crowd ­Cheers, the biker bar, and the secret toll-free highway that takes you to Chicago. All of these places are the cream of South Bend life. Enjoy, good luck, and stay tuned for my next column which will focus on campus oddities and treasures. 
David McMahon is a recent Notre Dame graduate doing social work in Oakland and can be reached at dmcma­hon@hotmail. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
Grad Student Apathy? Incident at Coach's Spurs 
This past Saturday, I witnessed the most appalling scene at a football game in my two years as an NO student. No, it wasn't 

Evaluation of Gender Relations 
anything on the field, but rather in the student-or shall I say graduate student -section. Seated amongst sophomores and As the new school-year begins, I am keepingjuniors, this section was the most apathetic group of students I've my eyes open for any indications of how the tra­seen since my high school football team went 1-11. They rarely ditionally shaky and unstable gender relations on chanted along with the 7,000 undergrads, many sat down during this campus will shape up in 1997-98. While at NBC timeouts, no more than a dozen wore "The Shirt," and more Coach's last Thursday, I saw a spectacle that than a few assumed they could show up five minutes before kick­dropped my jaw and extinguished my expecta­off and have the ushers move 200 undergrads to their original tions for improved relations between the men seats. Even worse, I actually saw two students with books STUDY-

and women of the student body. What I wit­ING during the 1812 
f 

nessed was an all-female drinking contest Overture. I assume G&ruilAfe~ ~t I3 between women representing North Quad and most agree with me ~ ;v,."'-e._ J :...:.:--:--­
their South Quad rivals. The most appalling and that homicide is justi-'0o ( \~f t..... ~'1 IX1TJ offensive aspect was that these women had
0
fiable if this incident \ ~ L.. · · ·· decided to refer to their contest as "Bitchtostal 

is ever seen again. ~ · · '97." I was also disappointed by the North Quad Also, after witness-..2:) ~ team's decision to choose the degrading motto ing the majority of Q "our legs are always in the air." As ugly as this these students leav­slogan was, I was even more shocked and dis­ing before our alma gusted by the South Quad's extremely skimpy mater was played, I shirts which prominently displayed the truly believe many Confederate flag, a symbol of slavery and racism. 

grad students want Considering the current movement to create a nothing to do with the university that is more accepting and tolerant, I "NO Family." I could not believe that a group of intelligent, understand they may attractive young women would band togetherbe more loyal to some under the guise of "Bitchtostal '97." How canother school or con-the women of this university be taken seriously 

cerned only with completing a degree, but an empty 1,000 seats really disrupts 
J". l'f:ke.ls-d«c."';
1 

Joyce's "greasy orb." 
So far starters for those exploring the South Bend area here is a list of things to do, see, volunteer at, or find -Green Party headquarters (and join up!), Cafe International, Toyo Sushi, the State Movie theatre, Dismas House, The Center for the Homeless, Sunny Italy, the Indiana Dunes. the ten command­ments tablet, the Lincolnway migrant worker's mural, the Morris Civic audito­rium, the drive-through movie theater 
in their demands for equal treatment and respect when groups like this, whether in jest or not, are running around in revealing outfits glorifying their ability to drink large amounts of alcohol? I understand that this was merely a group of friends having a good time, but they should have considered the ramifications their behavior could have. No wonder men and women at Notre Dame have trouble relating to each other when there are so many mixed messages flying around. Do the females here want to be admired for their intellectual, athletic and leadership abil­ities or for the way they look in shin-tight shirts and their talent at holding their liquor? These women could have found a better way to cele­brate female friendship than by referring to themselves by a derogatory name, flashing their skin, getting drunk and therefore perpetuating stereotypes that a lot of women have worked to tear down. 
Brittney Nystrom Senior Student Government Gender Relations Chairperson 
The Observer welcomes letters to the editor from Notre 
the unity the rest of the student body enjoys during these six home games. Therefore, 

Dame and Saint Mary's students, faculty, and staff in I challenge each grad student who even slightly cares about the spirit of Notre Dame: do a little more tailgating, get a little bit row­
order to facilitate thoughtful discussions of importantdier, and try to have a little fun. If not, SIT with the other 70,000 fans and let the sophomores and freshmen move over, the latter 
campus, national, and international issues. Please limit group on one condition-that they stop cheering during the alma mater. 
word length to 250 words. Submissions should be. sent to 
The Observer office, 314 LaFortune, or e-mail your let­
Steve D'Avria 
Sophomore 

ters to Viewpoint.l@nd.edu. 
Keenan Hall 



Football 
1997 
Davie's Dynamic Duo 
Notre Dame Georgia Tech 
In Bob Davie's first game as head coach, new
17-13 

receivers Bobby Brown and Joey Getherall stepped to the forefront. 
see page 2 
Small step fo 
Davie's debut hardly a gem but Irish happy with perfect record 
By MIKE DAY 
Sporrs Editor 
Things didn't quite go according to plan, but they'll take it. 
Indeed. Notre Dame launched its new era of football on Saturday with things going differently than expected. The Irish struggled all day long against a pesky Georgia Tech team and needed a late fourth-quarter touehdown to eseape with an uninspiring 17-13 victory. 
"It definitely wasn't a thing of beauty, but we're happy to eome away with a win," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. "Any time you can go into a game with a new coaching staff and manage to win, you've got to be pretty happy." 
The Yellow Jackets. determined to spoil Davie's debut and the unveiling of the recently renovated Notre Dame Stadium, clung to a 13-10 lead with just under eight minutes to play. 
That was when Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus and tailback Autry Denson took it upon themselves to make sure that the new coaeh would end the day with his first victory. 
In a drive beginning on the Irish 30-yard line, Denson carried the ball five times and caught a Powlus pass before rambling in from one yard out for the game-deciding touchdown. The junior tail­back finished the day with just 71 yards on 24 car­ries but seored Notre Dame's only two touchdowns of the day. 
"We struggled today; there's no doubt about that," said Denson. "But when we needed to win the game, we came up big. That's something that good teams do, and fortunately, we were able to do it today." 
Denson's first score came with 7:56 remaining in the first quarter following an eight-play, 67 -yard drive. On second and goal from the three, the Irish tailback dashed to the corner of the end zone to 
see DEBUT I page 2 



• IRISH INSIGHT 
Highly touted offensive line turns in puzzling performance 
W
hat exactly is the strength of this Rosenthal. 
Notre Dame football team? So why is it that Notre Dame's potential 
Apparently it depends on who you ask all-Ameriea tailback Autry Denson was 
and when you ask them. only able to manage 71 yards on 24 car­
According to most analysts before the ries, including just 18 yards on 10 carries 
game, it was the mam-~~~~~~~ in the first half? 
moth offensive line. On Why, after a first and goal on the Tech 
paper, they appear to be four, was the Irish offense forced to leave 
one of the most imposing the field after five failed attempts to punch 
front lines in the nation. it in using their strength up front? 
The group of five, despite By the time the fourth quarter rolled 
center Rick Kaczenski's around, the line had finally worn down the 
relative lack of size (6-Yellow Jacket defense, and the men in the 
foot-4, 258 pounds), trenches began to get enough of a push for 
averages 6-foot-6, 297 Brian Rienthaler the running game to take off. But a simi­
pounds and includes Assistant Sports Editor lar effort will most likely not be enough 
three seasoned fifth-year ------­against some of the more talented defen­
seniors along with a legitimate all­sive teams on the Irish sehedule. 
American candidate in junior Mike 
see INSIGHT/ page 3 The ObseiVer/Brandon Candura Fullback Joey Goodspeed and the Irish rushing attack found little daylight on Saturday, averaging just 3.67 yards per carry against the Yellow Jackets. 


r------~-------------------· -·------------------~--------·--------. 
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
Getherall, Brown help add life to Irish passing attack 
By BETSY BAKER the game, but also caught the Haid of Gethorall. "The kid Associate Sports Editor first pass 10 seconds into the amazes me." game for a 10-yard gain. Although we didn't actually 
Although Notre Dame football Throughout pre-season camp, plan that [the first catch of the has been known in recent years players and coaches alike raved game]. but I'm not surprised for its ground attack, the return about the 5-foot-7, 168-pound that it happened that way. lie's of quarterback Ron Powlus for Getherall. Touted as being going to be a heck of a football a fifth year and the emergence faster than speedy defensive player here at Notre Dame." of a six-man deep receiving back Allen Rossum, Getherall After the game, Getherall corps has raised questions immediately worked his way thanked the coaehcs for the about a possible shift in the into the Irish line-up, marked opportunity to play but Irish offense. as third behind Malcolm remained focus in his intent for 
Some of those questions were Johnson and Bobby Brown on his position on the Notre Dame 
answered on Saturday in Notre the depth chart. The hype football team. Dame's 13-10 victory over about Getherall panned out on "When they said we werr. Georgia Tech. One question Saturday when he caught five going to start off in a three­was answered with an explana­passes for 47 yards, second receiver set this week, I was tion point when true freshman only to Brown. really exciting because I had a Joey Getherall not only started "He's a unique player," Davie chance to start," Getherall said. 
"But when I first came here, I came to battle and I wanted to come in and play right away. I ~oey Getherall impressed f~ns and coaches with five receptions in thedidn't want to sit out and red f1rst half. The 5-foot-7 rece1ver became the first freshman to start for 
shirt this year, so I was ready 
the Blue and Gold since 1983. to play." 
dinator Jim Colletto expressed that he ran for 16 yards to setUnfortunately for the Irish, a more cautious approach with up Notre Dame's first touch­
they will have to wait for 
the injury. down of the game. 
Getherall's continued contribu­"With Getherall getting hurt, "We probably should have
tion because he sustained a we're concerned about our thrown deep earlier in the
knee injury late in the game speed at the wide-out," Colletto game, but when you get nearSaturday that is nxpected to said. "He'll be out two or three the end of the game and throwkeep him out for a couple of weeks probably." deep incomplete, it's a wastedweeks. 
In addition to Getherall, down. and we couldn't do that
Although neither Getherall 
Brown answered anotlwr ques­then," Colletto said. 
nor the coaches can pinpoint tion for the Irish with his game­Despite the InJury tothe exact play of the injury, leading seven receptions for 64 Getherall, the Irish can stillthey did say they thought it was yards. Brown had continually look to Allen Russum, whojust a sprain, and do not nxpect developed himsnlf as a stand­played just one down on
it to keep Getherall out too 
out throughout both spring Saturday, Brown, and Johnsonlong. 
practice and pre-season camp, who had three catches for 29
"It happened probably 
but it remained to be snen yards, in addition to sophomore
around the middle of third whether he could handle the Haki Nelson and junior
quarter, but I played thmugh it game-day pressure. With the Shannon Stephens, who did notthe rest of the game," Getherall exception of ono dropped pass play on Saturday but are
said. "It's just a sprain. I'll 
early in the third quarter, expected play this season, to
probably be back next week." 
In Saturday's win, senior Bobby Brown better than tripled his career Brown looked exceptional, continue to maximize the aerialtotal in receptions, emerging as one of NO's finest receivers. However, Irish offensive coor­including a short-yardage catch attack. 
Debut  "We knew the offense wasn't clicking the way it normally does, so we had to do some­thing big," said senior defensive end Melvin  • GRADING THE IRISH  
continued from page 1 give the Irish a 7-0 advantage. After the quick start, the Notre Dame offense closed up shop, advancing into Georgia Tech territory just one time in the second half. The Yellow Jacket defense limit­ed the Irish to just 171 yards in the second half. "We had some problems in the second half, but in the first game, that kind of thing hap­ Dansby, who led the Irish with two sacks and 12 tackles. "We ended up making some big plays and forcing field goals instead of allow­ing them to get in the end zone." Dansby and pre-season all-American line­backer Kory Minor, who added 10 tackles on the day, gave Yellow Jacket quarterback Joe Hamilton all kinds of problems, forcing him to throw off balance and before he was ready. "Their defense, particularly Minor and  Quarterback: B-Powlus looked sharp early and spread the ball around. But with the game on the line and the team in need of a play, two of his passes found Georgia Tech's Rogers and Bostic in a two minute span, and he needed his defense to bail him out.  untamable as he lead the crew with two sacks and 12 tackles. Linebackers: B Mlnor and Bryant came up with some big plays, including down the stretch which is really all that matters. They each had a sack, and Jimmy Friday was all around the ball with 10 tackles.  
pens some.times," said Powlus, who finished 18-of-29 for 217 yards. "We know that we  Dansby, did a great job all day long," said Georgia Tech coach George O'Leary. "We  Running backs: B  Secondary: B+  
can do better and we will." While the offense floundered, it was the Notre Dame defense that kept them in the game, especially following two Powlus inter­ceptions late in the game. The second turnover set the Yellow Jackets up at the 34­yardline, but they were unable to move any further and were forced to settle for a Dave Frakes field goal attempt. Frakes' second miss of the day with 7:35 to go in the game enabled the Irish to set up for what would ultimately be the game-winning drive. However, it would not have been pos­sible without the play of the defense.  just made too many mistakes and failed to take advantage of the opportunities we had." For Davie and the Irish, it was a foundation to build on. "It wasn't at all the way we drew it up, but that happens," said Davie. "No matter how it looks, you're always happy to go home with a win under your belt." "We're just glad that Coach Davie was able to get his first win," added Powlus. "It meant a lot to the team for him to win his first game as a head coach." Pretty or not, the new era of Notre Dame football has officially begun. ·  Denson and Goodspeed didn't do much in th~ first half, but they were being hit in their own backfield. Denson, like lle always does, got the job done ln crunch time. Wide receivers: A;;. Powlus looks like he will have some new targets this year as Brown and Getherall were spec­tacular in the frtst half, combin­ing for 11 receptions. Johnson  Guilbeaux's pick was perhaps the biggest single play of the game, and Rossum added a piek and helped keep Middleton shut­down. The only blemish of the defensive backfield was the play of Highway 14, which is always tbe fastest route to the end zone. Special Teams: B-The bad snap and hold almost proved costly. When the Irish were pinned deep in their own  
also chipp{;ld in with three catch­ territory Smith came up with 64  
es.  Brown dropped a couple,  yardet. Tech's coverage kept  
including a key ball in the fourth  Rossum and the return game  
quarter  which  could  have  contained. It's a good thing their  
sparked the offense.  kicker  is  worse  than  Notre  
Dame's.  
Offensive Line: C+  Coaching: B  
Tech's front seven dominated  
things in the first three quarters  Davie's debut was a win, and  
and stuffed the massive line on  his 1-0 record is the best it can  
five consecutive attempts from  be  at this point.  Mattison's  
inside the five. But the game was  defense was up to the task in the  
won in the trenches on the win­ fourth quarter, but the offense  
ning drive, and Powlns did have  was predictiable at times.  
good protection.  Overall: 3.00  
Defensive Line: B+  
It was a lot more exciting than  
After being pushed around by  anyone was expecting, or hoping  
a bigger Yellow Jacket offensive  for It to be. The team looked  
line, the rotation stepped up and  lathargic at times but they all  
prevented a Georgia Tech first  showed up at the most crucial  
. . Jun1or tailback Autry Denson's touchdown run fro The Observer/Brandon Candura m one yard out proved to be the difference in the  down in the fourth quarter. The  time.  
game as the Yellow Jackets were unable to muste r an offensive threat in the final minutes.  Beast  (Melvin  Dansby}  was  -Joe Cavato  


The Observer/ Brandon Candura 



Monday, September 8, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
his best Renaldo Wynn impersonation touchdown giving the and sparked the Notre Dame defense Irish the lead with with 12 tackles including two timely less than two minutes sacks, helping put Bob Davie in position left in the contest, to win his first game as a head coach. "The Beast" was 
The Irish showed a "bend but don't unleashed and he break defense" in the first three quar­dropped Hamilton for ters that allowed Georgia Tech to move a 13-yard loss and put the ball, but they held together when the Yellow Jackets in they needed to and allowed just one a hole up against their 
By JOE CAVATO 
touchdown. own goal line. Assistant Sports Editor 
The defense that came out in the "That was a big fourth quarter was dominant as Kory play," Davie said. "We With the graduation of most of last 
Minor, Lamont Bryant, and Dansby had a hard time all season's key defensive performers, one began to make plays to dash Tech's day at getting them of this year's questions was who would hopes of an upset and give the the Irish off of rhythm and that be the prime time player for the defen­offense several chances to take the sack got them out of sive unit. game. rhythm." 
Although Irish fans probably were not Dansby was part of a defensive end "He did it. He expecting to see those first dramatic rotation with Kurt Belisle, Jason Ching, cranked it up, fourth quarter defensive stands against and Brad Williams, and the time he Powlus said. "He got Georgia Tech, the question appears to spent on the bench proved to be valu­the defense going, and be answered. able as he was in top form throughout it was nice to see 
Fifth-year senior Melvin Dansby did the game and was a little too much for Melvin do that." 
,....-~­

the Jackets' offensive "There was a couple line to handle. of plays where I 
Tech's signal caller thought they were Joe Hamiliton was going to break familiarized with through, and Melvin Dansby in the first really came through half when Dansby for us," said senior recorded his first cornerback Allen -.___a.:._,"--------­
sack of the day and Rossum. The Observer/Brandon Candura applied pressure on 
Dansby missed all of Despite missing spring practice and need!ng rest in the first half, spring practice, and Melvm Dansby was a force for the defensive front.
the sophomore. 

"Melvin is an the condition of his Dansby said. "Fortunately I was able to intense player," Ron knee was a concern and one of the main do it." Powlus said. ''I'm re.~son_s for the rotation. Dansby also gives credit to the rest of 
very impressed with I thmk that happened because of the the defense which allowed him to be how well he can rotation," Mattison said. "The rotation is rested. play." ' 
to have those guys ready when you need "It had a lot to do with the amount of 
Defensive coordi­them in the fou~th quarter and _in the rest 1 hand in the first half," Dansby nator Greg 12t~ g~~e. Melvm had some gas m that said. "Brad Williams did a great job Mattison's rotation eng111~. . alternating with me." · on the defensive Engme No. _51 made an 1mpac~ wh~n-Last spring, Dansby was given the title front proved to be ever he was 111 the co.ntest mak111~ him of tri-captain, and this weekend he cer­pivotal in crunch arguably Notre Dames most consistent tainly proved he was one, joining the 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

time. On Georgia playe~ for all four quarters as he led the rest of the defense in giving the IrishMelvin Dansby, and the Irish defense stepped up to the chal­
Tech's second play 
team 111 tackles. their first win of the season and a 1-0lenge and did not allow a Tech first down in the fourth quarter. 
after Autry Denson's "We needed somebody to step up," record. 
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
Insight
1 2 3 4 F Georgia Tech 0 10 0 3 13 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame 7 3 0 7 17 If you had asked the statisticians following the first half, they would Notre Dame Georgia Tech 
have told you that fifth-year quarter­First Downs 22 17 
back Ron Powlus and his receiving Bushed-yards 154 177 
corps were what made Notre Dame Passing yards 217 118 
tick. Sacks-yards 4-24 0-0 
Why, then, did the architect of the Passes 18-29-2 10-21-2 
over-hyped new passing attack call Punts 3-40.0 3-48.0 
just eight passing plays in the second Fumbles-lost 1-0 0-0 
half? Penalties-yards 7-44 5-30 
And why, if the quarterback was Time of Possess. 30:55 29:05 
such an asset, did he telegraph two of those eight passing attempts so badly Individual Statistics 
that Georgia Tech linebackers and defensive backs began to feel like RUSHING 
intended receivers? Notre Dame-Denson 24-71, Goodspeed 12-57, Powlus 5­
When it came down to it, Powlus' 32. Barry 1-0 
numbers were solid, and he seemed Georgia Tech-Rogers 21-97, Hamilton 15-45, Wiley 8­
to have great control of the new-fan­35 
gled offensive schemes, but what will happen when the Irish defense has a PASSING 
bad day against a tougher opponent? Notre Dame-Powlus 18-29-2-217 
Will he and his receivers be able to Georgia Tech-Hamilton 10-21-2-118 
bail them out? After the game, if you had asked RECEIVING 
Yellow Jacket quarterback Joe Notre Dame-Brown 7-64, Getherall 5-4 7, Johnson 3-29, 
Hamilton, he may have said that the Denson 2-58, O'Leary 1-19 
Notre Dame defensive backfield and Georgia Tech-Rogers 4-39, Middleton 3-49, Steagall 1­
pass rush unit were what Irish fans 14, Myers 1-9, Gubba 1-7 
should be most proud of. So why, in the first half, was a Attendance: 80,225 
mediocre opposing offensive line and backfield able to run the ball down Notre Dame's collective throat? 
And why, after being chased out of
• SCORING SUMMARY 
the pocket beyond the Irish 10, was Hamilton allowed to wiggle his way 1st Quarter 
across the line of scrimmage and Notre Dame-Denson 3 yard run (Sanson kick) 
undress one of Notre Dame's starting cornerbacks on the way to the end 2nd Quarter 
zone? 


TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
1. Penn St. (22) 1-0 1620 1 2. Florida (15) 2-0 1590 2 3. Washington (14) 1-0 1580 4 4. Tennessee (6) 2-0 1518 3 
5. Florida St. (4) 1-0 1442 5 6. Nebraska (4) 1-0 1433 6 7. N. Carolina (2) 1-0 1342 7 
-
8. Colorado (3) 1-0 1331 8 9. Ohio State 1-0 1144 9 10. LSU 1-0 1127 10 11. Texas 1-0 1054 12 
12. Notre Dame 1-0 911 11 
13. Miami 1-0 904 13 14. Michigan 0-0 838 14 15. Alabama 1-0 812 15 16. Auburn 1-0 688 16 17. Stanford 1-0 587 17 18. lovva 1-0 527 20 19. Clemson 1-0 402 18 20. Kansas St. 1-0 377 21 21. Michigan St. 1-0 305 25 
22. Virginia Tech 1-0 213 NR 23. Southern Cal 0-1 182 23 
24. Arizona St. 1-0 150 NR 25. Colorado St. 1-1 127 24 
The Observer/ Tom Roland 
mistakes you could point out from Saturday, there
The kicking game looked shabby, the return were at least as many strong efforts that followedGeorgia Tech-llamilton 11 yard run (Frakes kick) 
squads were unimpressive, the play-calling, at
Georgia Tech-Frakes 33 yard field goal those mistakes and prevented them from spelling
times, fell into an all-too-familiar pattern, and doom. No matter what angle you take, the Irish Notre Dame-Sanson 28 yard field goal once again, a heavy underdog came into Notre will travel to West Lafayette next weekend with a
Dame Stadium and appeared to be better than3rd Quarter 
record of 1-0. 

anyone thought they were. However, no matter what other criticisms you no scoring 
When you look at the 1997 Fighting Irish football team, it does not appear that they have one single
could possibly attribute to Notre Dame's perfor­
4th Quarter strength.
mance against Georgia Tech on Saturday, head
Georgia Tech-Frakes 32 yard field goal But then again, that may be exactly what their
coach Bob Davie refused to allow his team to give in to the adversity. No matter how many player 
Notre Dame-Denson 1 yard run (Sanson kick) true strength really is. 
I 
i 
page 4 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 8, 1997 
Salvaging a Victory 
Defensive end Melvin Dansby (right) chased Georgia Tech quarterback Joe Hamilton all day, recording two sacks and 12 tackles. 
Below, linebacker Lamont Bryant (53) and the Irish defense join together to make a tackle against the Yellow Jackets. 
Junior tailback Autry Denson (bottom) carries the ball with Georgia Tech linebacker Justin Robertson in close pursuit. Despite being limited to 71 yards on 24 carries, Denson sparked the Irish to victory with a pair of touchdown runs. 
Photos by Brandon Candura and Katie Kroener 



Notre Dame 
17 

Georgia Tech 
13 

Notre Dame Stadium, Saturday, September 6, 1997 
• GAME NoTES 

Irish endure opening day thriller, break new ground 
ANOTHER OPENING THRILLER POWLUS PASSES MIRER 
Eight of the last 14 openers for the Bon Powlus moved past Hick Mirer Irish have been nailbiters as they (1989-92) into second on the Notre have b!~en decided by eight points or Dame career pass completions list. less. Notre Dame has come out on Powlus entered the day with 376 the winning side on four of those career completions and tied Mirer's contests with wins over Michigan in career mark with a 10-yard comple­1988 and '90, Vanderbilt last year tion to Joey Getherall on the Irish and Saturday's win over Georgia opening drive. lie moved past Mirer Tech. Those losses came at the on a 22-yard completion to Bobby hands of Purdue in 1984, at Brown on the second drive of the Michigan in '85 and '86 and to· game. Powlus finished the game at Northwestern two years ago. 394 career completions, second only 
to Steve Beuerlein (473, 1983-86). 
GETHERALL MAKES HISTORY 

Joey Getherall is the first true DENSON KEEPS CLIMBING freshmen to start a game for Notre Autry Denson continued his assu­Dame since inside linebacker Mike alt on the history books. On his way Kovaleski started against Purdue in from 16th to a tie for 12th on Notre 1983. Getherall responded to impli­Dame's career rushing yards list the cation that his performance on junior passed Jerome Bettis and Saturday ranks him with some of the Tony Hice. Denson also passed one all-time Irish greats by saying, of the Four llorsemen, Don Miller. "We'll see what happens, but as of Currently he is tied with Marchy right now, I'm just another old play-Schwarz with 1,945, placing him 32 er." yards behind Mark Green. 

Monday, September 8, 1997 page 11 

Post 'Legends' Letdown 
THE DEvn's OWN 
Direcror Alan J. Pakula Starring Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt 
~~ 

(two out of five stars) 
By SARA BRANDON and MARTY HARRIS 
Accent Movie Critics 
'~se." That one word sums up thr, movie "The Devil's wn." This newly relHased vidHo displays Brad Pitt as the strangely attractive IRA gunman; in other words. he kills peoplr, but his incrediblP-body and gorgeous face more than compensate for his 
lack of morals. From the moment we hear Brad's Irish accent we know this movie is quality. Brad's humble beginnings as a terrorist trace back to the traumatic childhood experi­ence he suffered in the motherland (Ireland) when he was but a wee lad. Choice words, like lad, coming from the ever so luscious lips of Brad, and sporadic jig music convince us that he is, indeed, really Irish. Hence, he did wonders with the word "Aye." For example, "Do you like it here Brad?" "Aye." "Will you father my children?" "Aye." You get the point. 
Back to a quick summary of the enriching plot: 
Brad. while still a wee lad, wit­nessed his father's demise at the hands of tiHl British. Brad comes to America. Brad stays with a police officer, played by Harrison Ford, all the while devising a scheme to trans­port weapons to Ireland. His schemes go awry. Harrison wises up. The end finds both characters bound by mutual respect but torn apart by differing philosophies. Sounds deep but don't be fooled. 
Overall we found the movie lacking in the plot department. After drag­ging on for more than two hours the movie ends up right where we knew it would. There are no surprises, but the end is a touching parody of mas­culinity which brought a tear to our eyes. 
However, we should not ignore the high points. First, the vivid flash­backs Frankie (Brad) had as he played pool in a New York City pub. Second, Brad in handcufl's...need we say more? Third, Harrison's dramat­ic expression of bewilderment/moral outrage at discovering Brad's true identity. Finally, stirring dialogue 
from every female in the movie, including a five-year-old, alluding to Brad's magnetism. 
Our pick for the most unbelievable plot twist is not that Brad could sail a dinghy, loaded down with missiles to Ireland, but that he sits at a bar for more than a minute alone ... yeah, right. 
We would recommend "The Devil's Own" to Brad lovers only. The screenplay is too weak for this cal­iber of actors not to mention those viewers who are after a thought pro­voking flick. 
Here are our ratings for this one: 
1. 
Fashion: Female lead needs to take off the baggy, peasant girl, eighties sweater. Show Brad some body. 

2. 
Hair: Though Brad's stylist is still high on bleach, one wants to run fingers through his damaged, golden locks. 

3. 
Movie: Two stars out of a possi­ble five. Good try though Brad. 





I. Fire Down Below 
2. 
G.l. Jane 

3. 
Money Talks 

4. 
Hoodlum 

5. 
Air Force One 

6. 
Conspiracy Theory 

7. 
Excess Baggage 

8. 
Cop Land 

9. 
Mimic I0. Men in Black 



Source: Associated Press 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRiiL General Hospital Correspondent 
· Well, not only did the Tin Man not take care of those residents of the Port that drive us nuts, it seemed like they were all we saw this week. Okay the little children have all gone back to school, when are Lucky and crew going to hit the books? Lizzie overhears Lucky say the Cassadines killed Steve, and she breaks land speed records to get home and tell Sarah. When Audrey backs it up as a legitimate rumor (whatever that means), Sarah is devastated and runs into Lucky's scrawny and deceptively friendly arms. 
Poor Nik is totally confused (he probably went home to check his teeth for food) and wants to work it out, but she refuses. He puts two and two together and comes up with the Spencers. Audrey reads Lizzie the riot act and so does Lucky until he realizes that her actions may have gotten him a shot at the object of his hormone-induced lust. Then Lucky transforms into Lizzie's best friend, and he defends her to Ruby. Talk about twisted; break your sister's heart and send her into the arms of the boy you like so that he will be nice to you: paging Jerry Springer! 
Stefap discovers that his sister and Katharine both grew up in places named Serenity. Alexis plays him like a fiddle, agreeing, reassuring, and questioning him until she has him convinced that Kathy's mother's deathbed confession of her parentage was a ploy to protect her from Helena. Since Katharine's DNA proof is not conclusive, Stefan is convinced and when she kisses him, he is essentially kissing his sister, YUK! 
Ned offers Alexis a month in Bali. but she offers him a month at the Cassadine retreat with her fulfilling his every whim. Both refuse, Ned to take care of ELQ and Alexis to save her family from a predator. Both promise to try again. 
Keesha, the mother of all meddlers, plots and schemes with A.J. to discover what really happened the night he blacked out They track down Mick and discover that A.J. was never at the bar and is still sober. Oblivious to her world crumbling, Carly plans her wedding and tries on gowns. Bobbie catches her and offers a few choice remarks. Carly responded by saying, "This baby will be kept and loved." When Carly gets home, 
A.J. was waiting for her. 
Jax invites V into his home/office to work! Argh, she is a vampire who sucks away your charisma and brains and now you've invited her over the threshold? Brends dis­covers her there and looks a little perturbed. Brenda's day gets worse when Jax refus­es her invitation to the wedding. How insensitive was that? Someone hit her, she stabbed him in the heart and now she wants him to pull the knife out himself. They exchange "I love yous" and she leaves. Later Ned bails too; are these omens or will Tony and Carly, town home-wrecker, have more guests than Brenda and Sonny, town pariah? 
Feicia returned home to find that Mac survived without her: he even seems to be thriving. She can't stand it, or the fact that he seems interested in Dara, more specifi­cally Dara's low-cut top. 
Jason sits at Sonny's feet and learns what it will take to make him the WASP Godfather. Mike and Sonny, after four years of sparring, dissolve into tears as the "I love yous" flow. Sonny makes Jason promise to look out for Mike, Luke, and Robin. 
The Tin Man tapes Mike's voice and uses it to get Sonny alone. Then he kills Joseph and severely beats the crap out of Sonny. The Tin Man plans to kill Sonny. the bride, the moron, and the old nian. Hey, if you really want to hurt Sonny, kill Keesha Ward. They struggle for the gun and a shot rings· out! 
Days of Our Lives 
By NAOMI FREEMAN, KRISTINE HOWARD, and NICOLE PAULINA Days ofOur Lives Correspond~nts · 
Welcome back to school, DAYS fans! It's been an eventful summer, and the excite­ment continued last week with one of the best non-weddings Salem has ever seen! But first, the boring stuff ... 
Bo finally found BJ.llie in Rome, only to discover that Max got her hooked on drugs again. Bo has agreed to stay and help her kick the habit. Did anyone else notice that Billie's "druggie" makeup looked a lot like Marlena's during her satanic possession? 
Jack is still in jail; Abby is still annoying; and Jen is still dueless. 
The Vivian and Ivan story line has been one humiliation after another. They're broke and working odd jobs (including dressing up as Frankenstein and his bride). Vivian's new plan centers on exploiting a bum named Jonesy who's really an eccen­tric millionaire. 
Stefano offered John a deal: a cure for Roman in exchange for his freedom. John and Lexie planned to break him out of jail, but honest Abe stopped them. After an incredibly boring few days, Abe gave in. However, he still has reservations about let­ting "that monster" out of jail and into Lexie1s life. Stefano isn't too worried, though. because he knows he has another heir in Salem: Susan's little Elvis. 
And FINALLY, the event we've all been waiting for, THE WEDDING. Sami, sporting an incredibly BAD hairdo (did she take ALL the gel in Salem?) and a dress that left NOTHING to the imagination. finally got to walk down the aisle. Unfortunately, her psychic twin brother Eric managed to convince Roman to delay the ceremony by tak­ing a nose dive at the altar. Meanwhile, Mike finally figured out what we've known all along: LUCAS IS WILL'S FATHER. Carrie rushed to St. Luke's just in time to stop the wedding and exposed ALL of Sami's secrets (and knocked the witch out with one punch!) After pulling himself and his 35 brain cells together, Austin re-proposed to Carrie. She accepted, and they planned to tie the knot that afternoon since their origi­nallicense had one day left until it expired -WHATEVER! In a dramatic and heart­breaking twist, Carrie and Austin have asked Mike to be the best man. Mike accepted, much to the dismay of his psychotic, meddling mother. This week we anxiously look forward to the long-awaited wedding between Carrie and Austin. 
Coming soon: Our Days of Our Lives website! 
Email us with your Days comments or questions: 
Paulina. I @nd.edu. Freeman.19@nd. edu. or Howard.35@nd. edu 
.... 

-
---------~--. 

page 12 TheObserver • U.S. OPEN Monday, September 8, 1997 
Williams falls short in first Open final 
By HAL BOCK Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
There was hope for Venus Williams at the start Sunday. She hit some big shots and made some smart choices as she served to Martina Hingis in the first game of the U.S. Open championship. 
A forehand kissed the line. Then a backhand down the line landed in a corner. She won three of the first four points, building a 40-15 lead against the No. 1 player in the world. It seemed that the amazing run Williams had been on for the last two weeks was going to continue. 
And then, just like that, it came apart with four unforced errors that cost her the game. When you're playing against No.1, you don't want to be bro­ken in the first game. 
"It was the turning point of the match," Williams said. 
Hingis took command, leav­ing Williams looking like some­one playing for a scholastic title instead of a Grand Slam title. When it was over, Williams had lost 6-0, 6-4. 
And aftwerward, Williams, who has been cool throughout this adventure, admitted that Sunday was different. "I think it's natural to be nervous in a situation like that." 
It showed. 
There were 17 unforced errors in the first set and 21 more in the second, far too many to give her any chance against a player of Hingis' stature. She knew it, too. 
"I wasn't surprised," Williams said. "One of my only weaknesses is I will start hit­ting unforced errors. That's something I've cut down a lot on in this tournament. I really improved on that. I'm just going to have to keep working hard. Maybe in the future, six months from now, that will be something that will pass." 
After the first set, a 22­minute blowout, Williams tried to gather herself. "I just had to put my game together, maybe slow it down, do something a little different," she said. "I was just trying to think what I could do to get into the match, what I could change." 
Against Hingis, there weren't many options. 
''I've just got to play a little better, a little more consistent­ly. I've got to cut down on the unforced errors." 

Rafter wins four set battle 
By STEVE WILSTEIN Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

In flourishes that harkened back to the great champions in Australia's proud tennis her­itage, Patrick Rafter overcame the fastest server in history to win the U.S. Open on Sunday and secure his first Grand Slam title. 
Rafter stared at his racket to see if it had cracked when Greg Rusedski unleashed a record 143 mph serve in the fourth set, then bore down to finish off a 6-3, 6-2, 4-6, 7-5 victory. 
In a scene reminiscent of Australian Pat Cash, Rafter climbed up to embrace his family, friends and coach Tony Roche. 
"I can't believe it. I'm in a fantasy land," Rafter said. 
The first Australian champi­on of the U.S. Open since John Newcombe in 1973, Rafter played in the tradition of his famous mentors with a serve­and-volley style and an athletic flair that never wavered even under pressure. 
Rusedski, trying to become the first British winner since Fred Perry in 1936, provided plenty of that pressure with his booming serves and gutsy shots in a third-set comeback. But Rafter kept attacking the net, leaping for almost impos­sible volleys and making them. 
Perhaps only tennis aficiona­dos knew who Rafter and Rusedski were. Certainly the women's finalists, teen-agers Martina Hingis and Venus Williams, had greater popular­ity around the world. But Hingis' 6-0, 6-4 victory over Williams had none of the drama, and little of the grand play, of the Rafter-Rusedski match. 
Rafter wore his long hair in a Samurai bun and he played with a warrior's fervor. His link to players like Newcombe and Rod Laver, Roche and Ken Rosewall, could be seen in his graceful style on court, his muscular legs, and his love of the game. 
Roche tutors him and Newcombe calls up at times with advice. For more than two decades, Australia's best play­ers have been banding togeth­er to help produce another champion. Cash came along as a surprise a decade ago, and now so has Rafter. 
Rafter lost in the first round at the U.S. Open a year ago. Rusedski hadn't won a match at the Open in his three previ­ous years here. 

'The difference was I missed a few easy volleys, a few balls by an inch," Rusedski said. "Pat was just the better player on the day. I think I'll learn, like I did from being in the quarters at Wimbledon. Learn to push it up a notch." 
Rafter's path to the title was littered with top players, including former champion Andre Agassi and No. 2-seed Michael Chang. But Rafter lost only two sets in the tourna­ment, one against Agassi and one against Rusedski. 
Rafter's rise this year -he reached five finals before this one without winning any ­has been nothing short of remarkable. He had won only one title in his career, Manchester in 1994. lie fin­ished the past two years ranked No. 68 and No. 62 while battling injuries. 
Now. Rafter will be ranked No. 3 behind Pete Sampras and Chang. He is the first Australian in the top 10 since Cash reached No. 10 in 1988. 
"It's amazing," Rafter said, referring to his ranking. "Nothing can substitute for that. This is what I've been aiming and dreaming for my whole life. Hopefully, I can make those next two spots." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
-­ NOTICES  The Office for Students with Disabilties is looking for Students to be readers and notetaker for stu­ FOR SALE  Need a pair of LSU tickets. Have a pair of USC, Michigan, or Stanford tickets to trade. Call 901-755-4273.  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378  NEED A JOB??? -Student Activities is accepting applications for LaFortune student building man­ 
dents with visual impairments.  EVENING#: 288-2726  agers. Must be willing to work  
SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ NEED TO TRADE: I have 4 W.Va's  nights and weekends. Apply in 315  
home.  Readers are needed for courses in  dic Mattress set and frame. New,  and need 4 for Navy. Call Connie  NO TICKETS WANTED  LaFortune.  
ROOMS AVAILABLE  biology, chemistry, government,  never used, still in plastic. $225.00.  at 243-2794  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  
Football weekends  political science, Theology and  219-862-2082.  EVENING#: 288-2726  ATIENTION: GAY, LESBIAN,  
219·674·0270  English.  NEEDED: Two Michigan State  and BISEXUAL STUDENTS,  
86Mazda 626 runs good. New tires,  GAs. Will Pay $$$$. 273.5056  FOR SALE  FACULTY and STAFF:  
SEASONS INN  Notetakers are needed for courses  exh, alter, brakes. $2200 obo. Chris  N.D. G.A.'S  
Welcomes Motorhomes/Campers of  in accounting and business.  x1512.  Desperate Dad has 2 tickets to  271-9412.  New Year, New Night, New  
all sizes.  G.Tech/ BC/ Navy/ W.V. Wants to  Leadership, New Attitude!!!!  
Spacious lots available.  These positions are paid $6.35 an  Contemporary lakefront home for  TRADE for Mich. St. and USC so  WANTED N D G A'S  
Reserve Now 219-674-0270.  hour for undergraduates and $6.85  sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2 acre,  can bring family withl Call Casey  TO ALL HOME GAMES  The ORIGINAL campus group  
an hour for graduates. 3 to 5 hours  $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1­ 289-3349  271 1526  will hold it's first Info Meeting on  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  per week. Schedule for readers is  888-225-RUTH.  Wed. Sept. 10th, 7PM  
LaFortune Student Center  flexible depending on readers and  I NEED GA's TO MICH. ST.  I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia  
Store Hours  students schedule. Notetakers  89, Jeep WRANGER, Green. V.  CALL JIM AT 634-3985  Tech and/or the Michigan State  Our first Support Group Meeting:  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  must be able ·to attend class with  Clean. Like New. $4800 Or B/0  game!!! Please call Amy  Wed. Sept 17th, 7PM  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  student.  88,Chev Astro. V.Good  Have BC & USC or$$  at 810-355-9140.  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  Coond.$2999 Or B/0  To trade for MSU tickets.  Call 236-9661 for details!  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  For more information, please call  86,Toyota Corlla, 4Drs.Great Cond.  Call 243-4743, ask for Meaghan.  I NEED USC AND BC GA'S  
(closed home football Sat's)  the Office for Students with  $2099 Or B/O.Call2773254.  CALL DAVE @ 634-4905 $$  OJ APPLICATION DEADLINE  
Phone 631-COPY  Disabilities at 631-7157 or stop by  L.Mess.  I sell three student ticket  EXTENDED!!!  
109 Badin Hall.  booklets, $199 for each.  2 stud tix for sale. all home games.  wvfi -640 am will be accepting  
...  ILOST & FOUND I  FOR RENT  matching comfy CHAIRS:$35 each or $60/pr SPEAKERS: Technics 4 way, 160w, 8 ohm, $40 call Sean x1904  (You need an ID!) Call ASAP 634-4465 NEED MSU, LSU TIX  Call4-3313 NO ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097  disc jockey applications until thurs., sept. 11th at noon outside of our office on LaFortune's 2nd floor. Pick up an app. and get it to us  
Lose a set of keys to room 407?  WALK TO CAMPUS  FOR SALE BC GA'S  ASAP. Don't miss out!!!!  
ask Carlo at x1862  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  1988 Chevy Nova 111,000 miles.  CALL AN X2855  MARRIED STUD.T.BOOKS FOR  
$195/PERSON  Automatic. A/C. Starts Great.  SALE. 283-0920  
232-2595  Looks Nice. $1600 OBO. 287­ USC ALUMNI FAMILY, NEVER  Drummer looking for bandmates.  
WANTED  IT"S NOT TOO LATE­ 6604  BEEN TO USC V. NO GAME, WANTS TO COME BRING A FAMI­ Married Student TIX For Sale 273-3844  Call Jim at x 0677  
A newly remodeled 5 bedroom  87 Ply Colt, 136K mi, 1 owner, very  LY OF 6. NEEDS FOOTBALL  
SUPERSTAR STUDENTS NEED­ house is still available to rent for the fall semester. 2 full baths, washers  dependable, $800 OBO. Call 255­1317 for more details.  TICKETS. PLEASE HELP! 213/951 -4202.  PERSONAL  Rita,  
ED! Earn $ signing up friends &  and dryer, huge rec room, security  
classmates for our credit cards. Opportunity to advance to campus  system. Call now to take a look 277-0636.  TICKETS  FREE FACIAL & MKOVR w/ Mary Kay Call Margrette  You're a freak, but I'll always luv ya for it.  
manager involving hiring & training  NEED 4 GA'S TO MICHIGAN  2845099  
other students. No car required.  QUIET, SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD!  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  STATE! PLEASE CALL  -Felix  
Must be outgoing & aggressive~  PRIVATE 3 ROOM FURNISHED  HOME GAMES.272-6551  LAUREN 251-0094.  MEMORIAL AIDS QUILT  
Flexible hours & great income! Call  APARTMENT 5 MILES FROM  COMING TO CAMPUS  
Val at 800-592-2121 X154  CAMPUS. NO SMOKERS OR  Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W.  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  
PETS. UTILITIES PAID BY LAND­ Virginia tickets. Call at (609)259­ IF INTERESTED CALL  Tim, Thanks again for the Subway  
LORD. 257-8521  1731 or during the day  I need GA's for MSU, BC, and  ERIN AT 4-3857  run. You're the best.  
(201 )316-4117. Leave message.  UMich. Call Nikki @ 634-2367.  
Need 2 GAs for Mich St & USC Call  
Jaret 233-5620 or Eric 4-0872  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC  Wanted: NO Football Tickets  CLASS  
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  Family visiting-will pay big bucks for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028  Discreet Buyer -Call 1-B00-255­2850  OF 1998  I think, therefore, I'm single.  
SELL ME YOUR CRAPPY Blr<E,  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  NOTRE DAME  Pick up the OFF CAMPUS DIREC­TORY outside the '98 office door  
call john x-4197  243-0658. THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  Looking for GA's to Any & All NO Games! Will Beat Any Offer!  FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE  (213 LaFort.) Limit one per apart­ment or room.  Unhappy would-be seventh, tool. Yeah, you know who you are.  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Will Trade Any Home Game for  232-0058  
--­ Driver wanted to transport 4th grader between school and afternoon activities each Tues. and Wed. Female preferred. Contact D. Bennett at 631-8298 or bennett@nd.edu. Guitarist -punk, rockabilly, soul, band. Influences: Stooges, MC5, Jon S,pencer , 60's garage, Sun rec's, Cramps, James Brown, etc. call Chris 232-2263.  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. NICE FURNISHED HOME GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO CLOSE 2773097 ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  LSU. Call 634-4872 WANTED: 3 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE CALL 634-4196, LEAVE MESSAGE. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Selling 2 GT tix. Leave best offer at (402)341-9406 or (402) 345-2177. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service. Call 234-5650.  ST JUDE NOVENA May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored and glorified, loved and pre­served throughout the world, now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray for us. St Jude, Worker of Miracles, pray for us. St Jude, Help of the Hopeless, pray for us. Say this prayer nine times a day. By the eighth day your prayer will be answered. Publication must be promised. It has never been known to fail. Thank you, St Jude.  Krupa: The Quark Queen Jamie, be better. Love, your assis­tant. These are the last words I have to say.  

Monday, September 8, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 



largest student discount program ever. FREE. 
Choose AT&T. And we'll give you a free one-year Student Advantage® membership. Use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors like these: 

MOTDPHOTO
~me. 
THEATRES The EXJlilrmoce MakEs the Difference kinko•s· 


Choose AT&T. Get a Student Advantage membership. FREE. 
Call 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 


AT&T
It's all within your reach. 
Student Advantage offer vahd for AT&T Res1dent1al Long Distance, AT&T Calhng Card and AT&T Umversal Card customers. © 1997 AT&T 
I 
------~------· -·­
~--------~--~-----------~-----------­
I page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 8, 1997 
• Nfl 

Elway leads Broncos to a second-half comeback 
By JIM COUR 
Associated Press Writer 
SEATTLE 
It's going to take a lot more of Paul Allen's dollars for the Seattle Seahawks to catch up with John Elway. 
Elway passed for two touch­
downs to Ed McCaffrey on Sunday, leading Denver to a 35-14 victory over the Seahawks in a game the 

B r o n c o s Elway trailed 14-13 at halftime. 
Elway, 37, had his 252nd and 253rd career touchdown passes to help get the Broncos off to a 2-0 start, while the Seahawks, now with the richest owner in the NFL in the billionaire Allen, dropped to 0-2 for the third season in a row under coach Dennis Erickson. The Seahawks lost their opener 41-3 to the New York Jets, also at Seattle. 
The Broncos beat Seattle for the third straight time, for the eighth time in 10 games and won for the fifth time in six games in the Kingdome. 
Seattle started Warren Moon, the oldst player in the league at 40, in place of the injured John Friesz, and Moon responded with his 255th career touch­down pass, a 12-yarder to Carlester Crumpler late in the first half. 
But in the biggest play of the game, Moon was intercepted by Broncos cornerback Darrien Gordon, who returned it 32 yards for a touchdown on the final play of the fourth quarter to give Denver a 28-14 lead. 
The Broncos added an insur­ance touchdown on a 1-yard 


.. 
... 
© 1997 Price Waterhouse LLP 

run  by Terrell Davis in the  and McCaffrey teamed for their  his 12-yard pass to  a falling 
fourth  quarter.  Denver's  second touchdown of the game,  Crumpler in the end zone for  
defense stopped Seattle  on  a 21-yarder in which McCaffrey  Seattle's first touchdown of the  
downs at its 38 and 44 in the  beat rookie cornerback Shawn  season with 1:11 lefL  
final period.  Springs.  Elway  passed  to  Then. the Seahawks' defense  
In  a  battle of future  Pro  Shannon Sharpe for a 2-point  converted a fumble by Elway 
Football Hall of Fame quarter­ conversion.  into a touchdown with 55 sec­ 
backs, Elway was 18 of 26 for  Gordon stepped in front of  onds remaining for  a  14-10  
197 yards and two touchdowns,  Mike Pritchard and ran back  lead_  Michael Sinclair beat  
while Moon was 20 of 33 for  the interception of Moon's pass  Jamie Brown and stripped the  
222 yards and one score, with  for  a touchdown that showed  ball from Elway on first down  
one interception. Davis, last  the Seahawks that Elway has  from the Broncos' 35. Chad  
season's AFC rushing champi­ an outstanding defense this~  Brown, Seattle's $24 million  
on, had 107 yards on 21  car­ season, too.  free-agent  pickup  from  
ries.  The Seahawks led 14-13 at  Pittsburgh, picked up the ball  
After trailing at the half,  halftime  after scoring  two  at the 26 and ran it into the end  
Denver retook the lead - 21­ touchdowns in  a  16-second  zone for his first career touch­ 
14 - with 59 seconds left in  span at the end of the second  down.  
the third quarter when Elway  quarter. First, Moon completed  

For Students, and Families 

OM PAGNA 
presents 

.. UNDERSTANDING FOOTBALL.. 
6 Monday 
Seminar topics:Evenings, 7·9p.m. Offense, Defense, starting the Kicking Game, September 15th Demonstrations Jordan & Particpation 
TOM PAGNA 

Former Offensive Backfield Coach 
for Reservations Call 
Sponsored 219/233-3486
by Home 
Fee:$60

Management Service 
C  T L  A A  T K A S  E S  S  C  
PUT  A  NEW  SP  N  

ACCOUNT NG 

One look at the sports car of today and you can see where the inspiration came from-yesterday's classic roadster. With a 150 year tradition of excellence, Price Waterhouse has also earned the repu­tation as a true classic-the blue chip of accounting firms-but there's nothing yesterday about PW. 
Our tradition has taught us the importance of bringing innovation not only to client service but also to helping our people achieve career success. To our clients, this translates into ideas, advice and solu­tions to complex business problems. To our Audit and Business Advisory Services (ABS) professionals, this translates into challenging assignments, ongoing training and development, access to leading-edge technology, and opportunities for long term growth. All while delivering value-added service every day. 
JOIN PRICE WATERHOUSE AT THE COLLEGE 
FOOTBALL HALL ·OF FAME 
DATE: WEDNESDAY -SEPTEMBER 10, 1997 
TIME: 6:30P.M. -9:00P.M. 
DINNER WILL BE PROVIDED AND DRESS IS CASUAL 
To learn more about Price Waterhouse, please visit our website at http:j;www.pw.com We are proud to be an equal opportunity employer. 
Price Waterhouse 
Mind fi MuscleSII 



Monday, September 8, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NFL 
Eagles upset Packers' hopes for unbeaten season 
ByJOHN F. BONFATTI 
Associated Press Writer 
PHILADELPHIA So much for the Green Bay Packers' talk of an undefeated 
season. 
Rookie R y a n Longwell missed what would have been the game-win­ning field 


goal with 11 Favre seconds left, and Ty Detmer threw for the game's only touchdown wi'th 
1:56 left as the Philadelphia Eagles upset the defending Super Bowl champions 10-9 Sunday. 
Longwell, who hadn't missed a field goal attempt in either the exhibition or regular sea­son, was wide right from 28 yards out, touching off a cele­bration at Veterans Stadium. 
The Packers (1-1) lost for the first time in 10 games, includ­ing their playoff run to the championship last year. The Eagles were eaten 31-17 by the New York Giants in their open­er. 
Detmer's 2-yard touchdown pass to Freddie Solomon 

Become a "REAL" Volunteer 
-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­
Join us for Orientation 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 
6:30 P.M. 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Questions: ]ackie Boynton 284,2644, Ext.266 
a. your friends 

capped an 80-yard, 19-play drive that took up 9:22. It ended when, on fourth down, Detmer found an open Solomon in the back of the end zone. 
The Packers had a chance to win after Solomon's touchdown when Bill Schroeder returned the ensuing kickoff to their 4 7. 
After Brett Favre, who fin­ished 19-of-42 for 279 yards, led the Packers to the Eagles 10, Longwell, who converted kicks from 22, 18 and 27 earli­er in the game, missed the short field goal. 
Detmer finished 19-of-32 for 193 yards and a touchdown. The Eagles' defense deserves 
most of the credit for the win, as it held the Packers, who led the NFL with 456 points last year, to under double digits for only the third time in the last four seasons. 
Longwell, a free agent who got his chance when third­round draft choice Brett Conway was injured in training camp, hadn't missed a field goal or extra point attempt in either the exhibition or regular season. 
He was .6-for-6 in field goal attempts and 10-for-10 on extra point tries before the sea­son, and was 6-for-6 with three PATs in the regular season. 

The John W. Houck
. 

Tribute/Dinner 
Sacred Heart Parish Center St. 1oseph Hall, Douglas Road University of Notre Dame 
7:00 p.m. September 20, 1997 
Pub Grub/Storytellers/Casual Dress $20.00 


b. 
your parents 

c. 
your classes 


d. none of the above 

Come explore what Psalms 23 has to say about a Christ­lived life . .. 
A Bible Study sponsored by the Baptist Student Union 
The Center for Social Concerns Monday at 7pm 
The Eagles got a 32-yard field goal from Chris Boniol and 125 yards on eight catches by Irving Fryar. 
Longwell's 27-yard field goal, his third of the game, extended the Packers' lead to 9-3 with 
5:48 left in the third quarter. 
A hurried Favre attempted a sidearm pass on Green Bay's first drive of the third quarter, but Rhett Hall intercepted, returning the ball 39 yards to the 13. But the Packers limited the Eagles to 1 yard on three plays, and Boniol hit a 32-yard field goal to cut Green Bay's lead to 6-3. 
Favre moved the Packers 60 yards in the second quarter's final two minutes. But they failed to get the touchdown in 
...

three plays from inside the 4, and Longwell's second field goal of the quarter, an 18­yarder, made it 6-0 at the break. 
The Packers got the game's first score after a 95-yard drive stalled just outside the Philadelphia goal line midway through the second quarter. Longwell's 22-yard field goal made it 3-0. 
Boniol had a chance to tie the game with a 49-yard field goal attempt with 1:50 left in the half, but he was wide left. The miss snapped a string of 28 straight successful field goal attempts by Boniol. 
Green Bay's offense slept through the first quarter, regis­tering only 20 yards as Favre went 0-for-6. Antonio Freeman dropped two passes, including one where there was no one between him and the end zone, and then dropped another pos­sible touchdown pass early in the second quarter. 
The Eagles drove to the Green Bay 1 in the first quar­ter, but Detmer fumbled a snap and Reggie White recovered for the Packers. 

When: September 10, 1997 Where: Hurley Building around the globe! 
Time:  4:30 p.m.  
Hosts:  ISP Staff, 109 Hurley  
Tel:  631-5882  


-~--~ --~---­
-~ 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 8, 1997 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
career, playing for the injured Ryan Cox. Then, ten minutes into the second half, he scored for the first time in his colle­giate career to give the Irish a 3-0 lead. The goal came from just inside the penalty box fol­lowing feeds from senior Bill Savarino and sophomore Matt McNew, who were both credit­ed with assists. 
"I really can't describe the feeling that I had after the goal," McKnight said. "It was amazing. I can relax a little now that I have the first one under my belt and focus on the things that I can do to help the team." 
The game marked the return of seniors Savarino and co-cap-
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 
tain Ryan Turner, two of the leading scorers from last year. Both sat out the first two games of the season for team policy violations. Savarino recorded an assist, and Turner played a very well up front, creating sev­eral scoring opportunities for the Irish. 
"As a team, we did a great job of creating scoring chances," Aris said. "We took advantage of a few of those opportunities and came out with the win." 
After a fast start by the Friars, Notre Dame controlled play for much of the game. Notre Dame outshot the Providence 16-7, and had a 7-1 advantage in corner kicks. Irish goalkeeper Greg Velho had five saves in the game, recording his second shutout of the sea­son and the 15th of his career. 
\\ 1 
JI~:mn:mm~::m:1r\':::~­
Thursday, September 11, 1997 7:30-9:30pm COBA Atrium 
• 
meet with recruiters from 40 companies 

• 
bring your resume 

• 
learn about Summer Internships & permanent jobs 


• Sample of companies attending: Bank of America Deloitte & Touche LaSalle National Bank Proctor & Gamble 


"As a defense, we wanted to come out strong and set the tone for the game early on," co­captain Matt Johnson said. "Last year, the defense was very strong and we had yet to re-establish ourselves this year so this game was important in getting back on track for the rest of the year." 
It was the first game for Notre Dame since losing to highly-ranked Indiana last week. 
"We just tried to build on the positives of the Indiana game and focus on our Big East games," McKnight said. This win was very important be.cause it gives us some momentum for the rest of the season." 
The Irish return to action Wednesday when they travel to Valparaiso. 
Catch the Acti0 n! ! 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue Saturday, September 13 Round Trip Bus Transportation to Ross-Ade Stadium 
Buses leave at I 0:30am from Stepan Center Tickets: $20.00 at the 
LaFortune Information Desk Bus tickets will go on sale at I O:OOam on September 9. 
For more information, contact Student Activities at 631-7309 
,...---­
Monday, September 8, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•MlB 
Indians sweep White Sox with a 5-2 home victory 
By KEN BERGER was 0-for-3 with a walk. He was 0-for-in the go-ahead run with a single in the the ballpark where Belle once reigned, Associated Press Writer 11 in the series. fifth. the slugger grounded out three times Second-place Milwaukee lost to Williams, acquired to replace Belle as against Wright and walked in the eighth 
CLEVELAND Boston and fell to 5 1/2 games back, Cleveland's premier power hitter, made against Mike Jackson. 
Matt Williams extended his career­which tied Cleveland's biggest lead this it 5-2 with an RBI single in the eighth ofT He is now 7 -for-33 with two homers high hitting streak to 23 games, and season. Matt Karchner. and 10 RBis against his former team. Cleveland held Albert Belle hitless in his Fernandez replaced Bip Roberts at Rookie Jaret Wright (6-3) allowed two Jose Mesa got three outs for his 12th second homecoming series as the second base in the sixth after Roberts runs and seven hits in 6 1-3 innings, save. Indians swept the Chicago White Sox and Robin Ventura collided in the walking three and striking out two. The first two games featured a much with a 5-2 victory Sunday night. basepath -a force play that was very Doug Drabek (10-10) allowed three runs more subdued atmosphere than in June, 
Jim Thome and Tony Fernandez similar to Belle's collision with and four hits, leaving after Marquis when Belle was jeered relentlessly and homered as the Indians won all three Milwaukee's Fernando Vina last season. Grissom singled to lead ofT the seventh. peppered with garbage and fake money. games from the third-place White Sox. Fernandez lined his ninth homer down Before colliding with Roberts, Ventura It picked up a little Sunday night as Chicago lost its fifth straight and faded the right-field line off reliever Tony gave Chicago a 2-1 lead with his fourth Cleveland swept the White Sox in to eight games behind the Indians in the Castillo in the seventh, giving the homer, one of a dozen or so balls to land Cleveland for the first time since 1993. AL Central. Indians a 4-2 lead. in the second deck in right field at One sign said, "Forget Albert. How 
Belle, the former Indians outfielder Thome tied it at 2 in the fourth with Jacobs Field. 'bout those Indians?" The teams play a who signed with rival Chicago last fall, his 37th homer. Manny Ramirez drove With boos and derisive chants filling four-game series in Chicago. 
Victory 
continued from page 20 
s 
Shannon Boxx and Monica Gonzalez at 10:43 opened the 
scoring, before Washington's Jana Wilson netted the first goal surrendered by the Irish
Get involved in 1997-98 .JPW defense this season, ending a 210-minute scoreless streak. Holly Manthei headed a The committeefor this year's Junior Parent's cross from Streiffer past 
Washington goalie GretchenWeekend is Iooldngfor a Sophomore Chairperson. Mensinger at 42:56, giving Notre Dame the lead for good. 
11zis is your chance to get involved in one ofthe 
Manthei also added an most exciting events ofjunioryear. Don't let this assist on Jen Heft's goal to 
cap off the scoring.
opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! Notre Dame goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene recorded two saves, while the Irish outshot 
•Applications are now available at the the Huskies, 28-11. Next weekend, Notre Dame
LaFortune Information Desk. 
takes on Big East rivals Pittsburgh and West Virginia
•Applications must be returned to 

before returning home for the
3 I 5 LaFortune by September 26. Adidas/Lady Footlocker 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Classic and a date with top-Jenny Heft and the Irish will take on Big East rival Pittsburgh Friday. ranked North Carolina. 
lF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL 
]EFF ]ONES AT XI63I. 

Write for The Observer 
..._ ONE NIGHT SOCCER TOURNAMENT THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER II 
6:00 .. STEPAN CENTER 
OPEN TO All NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
FIELD IS 60 YD. BY 40 YD. 5 ON 5 PlUS GOALIE REGISTER ATEAM IN THE RECSPORTS OFFICE DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 11 
TOURNAMENT IS UMITID TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS 1HATENTER 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 631.-6100 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 8, 1997 
• StuNT MAiw's VoLlEYBAlL 
Belles finish third at Hanover 
By ANGELA OLSEN 
Saine Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team wrapped up a busy weekend with a third-place finish at the Hanover College Tournament. The Belles were returning tournament cham­pions. 
On Friday night, the Belles faced off against Alma College, winning 16-14, 14-16, 15-10, 15-8. The Belles were led by freshman setter Ashley Uebelhor, who finished the night with 52 assists and senior Betsy Connolly with 16 kills. A strong performance was given by sophomore out­side hitter Agnes Bill, who had 13 kills and 20 digs. 
On Saturday morning, Saint Mary's came out strong and beat Earlham 14-16, 15-10, 16-14, 15-5. After losing the first set, the Belles regrouped. "We got smarter," head coach Jenny Joyce said. 
Freshman setter Megan Jardina had 48 assists and four aces to lead the Belles. Bill and sophomore Jayne Ozbolt led in kills with 15 and 13, respectively. 
Ten minutes after the win 
against Earlham, the Belles were back on the court against tournament host Hanover. The Belles lost 15­11,6-15,17-15,10-15,12-15. 
"It was a heartbreaker of a match," said Joyce. "Hanover played better volley ball." 
Jardina finished with a team high 50 assists and 19 digs. Connolly led the Belles with 10 blocks and 12 kills, while senior Meg Kelly had 18 kills. 
After the loss to Hanover, the Belles played against Rose-Hulman for third place. With a combination of aggres­sive serving and a good solid defense, the Belles beat Rose­Hulman 15-19, 5-15, 15-4, 15­
11. "We wanted it more than they did," said Joyce. 
The Belles served 13 team aces with five coming from sophomore Mary Rodovich. 
"She was our spark-plug," said Joyce. "She never lost her energy." Senior leadership came from Kelly, who led the team with 11 kills and 15 digs. 
"The girls played good, hard volleyball," Joyce said. 
Hanover won the tourna­ment by beating Ohio Wesleyan in the final. 
Use Observer Classifieds 
Ifyouare what you eat, why notcut backonfat? 
.
Amencan Heart 0,_ 
AssociationsM 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
Meet Herbert Benson. M.D.. founder of the Harvmd Mind/Body Medical Institute. and explore his pioneering mind/body approach to medical treatment. 
Dr. Benson is here to celebrate the opening of the new Saint Joseph's Mind/Body Medical Institute. Mind/Body medicine combines relaxation-response 
Free Public Seminar 
Mind/Body and Spirituality in Medicine: ANew Frontier with Herbert Benson, M.D. Sept. 11, 8p.m., Joyce Center, University of Notre Dame. Free Parking 

Saint Joseph's Mind/Body Medical Institute 80 I E. LaSalle Ave. • South Bend, IN 4661 7 239-6107 A Member of Sa1nr Josephs Care Group and Holy Cross Heal:h System 
techniques. nutrition. exercise and cognitive therapies along with standmd medical practices. Dr. Benson is the author of "The Relaxation Response," and several other books. His latest work 1s "Timeless Healing The Power and Biology of Belief." Join us at 8 p.m. on September ll and find out how to use your mind/body and spiritual powers. 
@ 

Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
The Irish started play on Saturday with a matinee victory over Utah, 15-1, 15-8, 17-15. Lee continued to lead the team scoring 14 kills on .333 hitting. After blanking Gonzaga in the final game yesterday, the Irish continued their torrid pace against the Utes, with a team hitting percentage of .667 in game one. 
The win against the Utes set up a championship match against the sixth-ranked Washington State Co.ugars. Despite a strong effort and a lengthened comeback in the third set, the Irish lost a battle, 15-9, 15-8, 16-14. 
Washington State held a 14­8 lead in the third game before the Irish rallied to tie it, fight­ing off nine match points before losing. Notre Dame continued to struggle on their service game, with a .54 ace-to-error ratio so far this season. 
"I think the biggest factor is that we weren't diversified enough offensively," Irish coach Debbie Brown commented. "We needed to be more unpre­dictable, not concentrating with one single hitter. We'll try to improve that as time goes on." 
"Overall, I thought that we played better than we did last weekend at the Shamrock," Treadwell said. "We worked throughout the week on getting the sets evenly distributed, so the other team wouldn't be able to concentrate on one single hitter. In the last game of the WSU match, we rallied back and almost won it, but we just missed the mark." 
"Overall, I feel like we played better and made some progress." Brown commented, "There were a lot of things we did right and some things that we need to improve on." 
The team placed three play­ers on the all-tournament team, Lee, Treadwell, and Leffers. "I think Lindsay {Treadwell) and I were more effective this week­end because we were able to block out more of our oppo­nents," Leffers commented. 
"Overall,  I  think  that  we  
improved  some  over  the  
Wisconsin match."  

The Irish, currently 4-2, return to the Joyce Center tonight to face No. 2 Florida. The Gators, who advanced to the NCAA semifinals last year and have a record of 6-0, look to be one of the toughest oppo­nents the team will face this season. "They're a very solid team," Brown remarked, "very good offensively and in block­ing. They have a very strong middle blocker in Nina Foster, who is probably the best player on their team. In many ways, they are similar to what we faced with Washington State on Saturday. This match should probably be the best home game of the season." 

Leffers, who went to Berkeley High School in Tampa and played for the Tampa Juniors, is especially ready for tonight's match. 'This match holds huge significance for me," LeiTers said, "I played with two of the Gator players, and Florida was one of the colleges that I was considering two years ago." 

Faculty. Staff. & Students 
Tuesday. september 9 security will guard &register bikes from 7:00am to 5:30pm at the north­west doorway of DeBartolo Hall 
Refreshments will be available in the morning. 
For information can Jessica at 631-5829 

Are you going back to your high school to visit your friends? Why not do it in style? 
Beeome a High Sehool Ambassador. 

REGISTRATION MEETINGS WILL BE HELD IN THE HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM (ROOM I22) TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 AND WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER I 0 7:30P.M. ATTENDANCE IS NECESSARY AT ONLY ONE OF THE MEETINGS. 
Everyone is welcome. 
Help the Admission's Office by returning to your high school and speaking to prospective students about Notre Dame over Fall Break or Christmas Vacation. 
--~-------------------------------------­
page 19

Monday, September 8, 1997 The Observer • TODAY 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 



WALLY I W£ DON'T HAVE 
TIM£ TO GATHER THE 
PRODUCT REQUIRE­
MENTS A.HE A.D TIME. 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS f"lfl--the World" (pop hit) 6 Boutique 1oKind of carpet 14Giue 15 Carbonated canful 16 Scarlett's plantation 17 Run to the altar 18 Brother of Cain 19 N. M. neighbor 20 Accounting principle, for short 21 Comic strip witch 23 ---Steamer {early auto) 25 Land west of Britain 26 Brain wave reading: Abbr. 
OF 
27 Track records? 29 Sine--non 32 Journalist 
Alexander 35 Isn't on the street? 36 Phoenix five some 37 Defeat 
decisively 40 "Ball!" callers 41 Scolds 
ceaselessly 42 Birch balk boat 43 Toothpaste type 44 Days of long ago 45 Inclined Ito) 46 Feldman role in 
"Young Frankenstein" 48 Mill in 1848 news 52 Seal tightly, as a coffee can 56 Cleveland's lake 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1 s A w• A M F "Ic AN s T 
T 0 T H E R E A R A V 0 I D 
I M M I G RAT~ SAND~ S E E S R E Dll D E S I R E 
IlK 
E S~·~._!. L~~ 
E T T U L N A A T T 

TAWS WRENS WEEK
P 'llL U~~~~~ 

~~~ K 0 A L A T H R E E 
~~,l 
E~G~CR.
OGR'ESIGROAN 
W H I I N V E R S E
N.,!.

A N I S E I N P R t V A T E MONKS GREASEGUN ANGST HARD.RUBY 
I WANT 'YOU TO START DESIGNING THE PRODUCT ANYWAY. OT~ERWISE IT WILL LOOK LIKE WE A.REN'\ ACCOMPLISHrNG ANY­
THING. 
) 


57 Memorable 
periods 58 Tiny bit 59 Area of 
corporate investment, briefly 
60 1996 Broadway 
hit 61 Walked {on) 62 Popular watch 
brand 63 Plumb loco 64 Slangy assents 65German 
industrial city 
DOWN 
1 Movie units 2 Illuminated from below 3 Bath sponge: Var. 4 The numbers in 
{x' + y') 5 Hair coloring 6 Hair -raising 7 Traveling tramp 

28 Seth's son 45 Northern diving 8 Bogus butter 
30 Next-to-last bird 
9Treewith word of the 47 Bursts of wind fan-shaped 

golden rule 

48 Gazillionsleaves 31 Tennis's Arthur 
49 Sea eagles 32 Self-satisfied10 Flight of steps 
11 Clown 50 Chain of hills 
33 "Fourth base" 

12 Dry, as a desert 51 Alternat've to a 
34 Resume

13 Disputed convertible
submitter
Mideast strip 
35 From a distance 
21 Entreat 
36 Specialized

22 Towel Answers to any three clues in this puzzle inscription are available by touch-tone phone: 
police units 24 One of Jacob's 38 Outrageousness 1-900-420-5656 (751': per minute). wives 39 Sales slip: Abbr. Annual subscriptions are available for the 27 Unwelcome 44 Last word of the best of Sunday crosswords from the last water on a ship golden rule 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
52 Sink or swim, e.g. 53 Vicinity 54 Skin opening 55 On the peak of 
59--v. Wade {landmark decision) 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
CELEBIUTIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jotln C~lllins, RosL•m,uy ,Cloo­ney, Doup,las FairlJank~ Sr., Scatman Cnlthers 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on Nnv. 3, 1959, 11t 1 a.m.. My boyfriend w,1s born on Jan. 26, 1966. WL· ore talking about getting m<trried, bu! an..· experiencing some problems with his not being responsible. He is a very hard worker, but will ht.• ever grow up and accept responsibility for his actions. If so, what would be a good time to get married, and what does our future as a couple hold? 
Kelly 
DEAR KELLY: The comparison disclosed that that there are prob­lems regarding friends and family. This may be one of the reasons that he can't commit to you. The other, of course, is due to the fact that your comparison wasn't stupendous. There appears to be a lack of honesty that will present problems. As far as wanting him to grow up, you have a couple more years to go, and even at that point he is one of the Peter Pans of the Zodiac, so I wouldn't set the date just yet. You will be in a high cycle for love, marriage and all that goes with it during the later half of 1998 and the first half of 1999. You match up well to those born under the signs Aries, Taurus, Gemini and Pisces. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your emotions will be tested today. Don't let lovers or tamily members upset vou with unwarranted criticism, . TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your energy will remain high; therefore, contim.le to get as much done as po.s­sible. Help children with projects that are difficult. 
EUGENIA LAST 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Social activity should be sclll'dult•d. &• ca.n•­ful if you get involvt•d in sport~ ev­enb, as minor injuries will curtail your freedom. 
CANCER (june 21-july 22): Use your head. People you work or li\•c with will be hard to handlt• and t•mo­tionally unpredictable•. 
LEO (july 23·Aug. 22): Misdirec­tion from friends or relativt•s will be deceptive. Get all the facts before vou take action involving your persOnal life. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Ex­
press your ideas at work. You can 
make pn)ff5Sional changes and come 
to agreements with superiors. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your anger will mount if you get into an emotional discussion with vour lover. Avoid escapist tendencies. · 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If vou let your anger get out of hand, ri1is­haps will occur. Don't take criticism too personally. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-0ec. 21): 
Don't let friends take advantage of 
you financially. Children will be diffi­
cult for you to handle if you have lost 
communication with them. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 19): 
You can make financial gains if you 
refrain from letting your personal life 
interfere with your professional re­
sponsibilities. Take control of your 
life. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your desire to travel may get you in 
O\'er your head. Trips will cost more 
than you bargained for. Problems in 
foreign countri~s or when dealing 
with foreigners will evolve. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Fi­
nancial gains can be made through 
hidden assets. Take care of pending 
legal matters. End situations that are 
no longer a benefit to you. It's time to 
move on. 

Born Today: This is the year to nurture your relationship. You will find yourself in a position to do more things that you enjoy. However, don't be silly and overspend or you will find yourself right back where you started at this time next year. 

Wanted: Reporters, 
-
photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City-------------State _____ Zip___________ 
-. 


Football 
1997 
Notre Dame 

17 Irish struggle in 
Georgia 

Davie's debut 
Tech 
13 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, September 8, 1997 

• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish continue unbeaten streak 
Gerardo's header leads team to win 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
In a battle of the unbeat­ens, second-ranked Notre Dame ousted third-ranked· Portland 1-0 yesterday, end­
ing the Pilots' 25­g a m e home field unbeaten streak. 
Junior forward Monica Gerardo 

volleyed a header from six yards out past Portland goalie Angela Harrison, seven minutes into the second half for the game's only tally. 
Sophomore Jenny Streiffer ran the ball up the left side­line before lofting a cross to the middle setting up Gerardo's goal, severing Portland's {2-1-0) 42-game regular season unbeaten streak. 
The assist gave Streiffer her second in two games, and Sobrero, also credited with the assist, her fifth in four games, equalling her total for the entire 1996 sea­son. 
The Irish outshot Portland 22-3, and goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene made two saves, recording her third shut out of the year. 
Portland has lost only four of its last 54 games, all to Notre Dame (4-0-0), who has beaten the Pilots in the last three NCAA Final Fours, including the 1995 national championship game. 
In Notre Dame's first road game on Friday, the Irish defeated Washington (0-2) by a 3-1 margin at Husky Soccer Field. 
Streiffer's goal from 
see VICTORY/ page 17 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Junior Monica Gerardo's second-half goal boosted the Irish over the Portland Pilots, 1-0. 
• MEN's SOCCER
• VOU.EYBAU. 

Netters take second in tourney Woods helps spark 
By BILL HART Spons Writer 

win over Providence
-Playing away from home is never easy, especially at such By TOM STUDEBAKER East opponents. Providence fell an early stage of the season. 
Sports Writer to 0-2 both overall and in the
For one player, however, a 
Big East.
weekend homecoming made it Freshman Heggie McKnight Woods, a defender, put theeasier. Notre Dame's volleyball scored a ~--~----. Irish up 1-0. The goal was the

team, ranked 20th in the 

goal and 
first for the Irish this season,nation, took second place this contributed and the first for Woods in his
weekend in the "Spikeoff 

two assists collegiate career. McKnightSpokane. 
and sopho­had an assist on the play, set­
The Irish opened play on 

more Alan ting Woods up with a pass from Friday with a three game win w 0 0 d s just outside the penalty box. 
over Gonzaga, 15-10, 15-7, 15­added a goal Senior Scott Wells also had an0. Senior hitter and Spokane and an assist assist on the goal. 

native Jaimie Lee led the Irish to lead the Woods Late in the first half, sopho­in her first starting role of the Notre Dame more Andrew Aris scored the 

season, with a team-high 18 

men's soccer team to its first second goal for Notre Dame onkills. Notre Dame was also win of the season. assists from both McKnight and 
helped by its starting middle 

Notre Dame beat Providence Woods.
blockers. who scored 24 kills Due to the shortness of the did tie the record set by Lee College 3-0 Sunday afternoon It was a game of firsts for

between them. Sophomore 

match, senior hitter Angie during the 1995 Purdue at Alumni field. With the win, McKnight. He started for theMary LeiTers totaled ten kills in Harris could not set a record Premier. the 18th-ranked Irish improved first time in his collegiate
16 attempts, while junior 

for consecutive matches with their record to 1-1-1 for theLindsay Treadwell took in 14 more than twenty kills. Harris year, and 1-0-1 against Big
kills in 20 tries. see VOLLEYBALL I page IS see SOCCER I page16 



'A 
vs. Purdue,
at Pittsburgh, 


• Saint Mary's Volleyball finishes third 
September 13 see page 18 September 12,7:15 p.m. 
vs. Florida,@) September 8, 7 p.m. 

• Williams discusses U.S. Open 
Soccer at Alma, 
6 
vs. Valparaiso, 
see page 12September 9, 4 p.m. 
September 1 0, 4 p.m. 

, 


