
Thursday, September 11 , 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 14 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Lunching with ResNet? 
Larry Rapagnani, dirnctor of
OfT brings on-line 
OJT, said the OIT plans to acti­vate 66 jacks on the second
access to more 
!'loor of Hesburgh Library, scheduled to come on-line Nov.
user-friendly 
24. campus locations The remaining connections are in LaFortune Student Observer Staff Report 
Center, with 22 in The Huddle and two located in the build­With the n~maining campus ing's laundry room. residences slated to come on­
Laptop users need both an litw before the end-of the 
Ethernet card in their machine semester. the Office of 
and the ResNet software in Information Technologies is 
order to use the jacks,staying busy by expanding the 
Rapagnani said. availability of HesNet. 
Separately, Rapagnani con­Ninety-eight Ethernet jacks 
firmed that the O'Hara-Grace arP lwing installed in many of 
Graduate Residences will come tlw most student-used campus 
on-line Oct. 8, with installation buildings, an dfort to make 
fairs extending through Oct. 9. HnsNet readily accessible to 
Old College, the last residence studt>nts, nspnrially off-campus 
scheduled for activation, will be students. with laptop comput­
brought on-line Jan. 20. Prs. 
Morrissey Hall's ResNet acti­Tlw first phase of the project 
vation date is postponed to Nov. is already complntn. In 17, with the installation fair DPBartolo llall's student 
extending through Nov. 19. JoungP. adjacPnt to tlw comput­
t\s of last spring. the OJT 1'1' rlust!'r. night HnsNct connec­
expected to complete the tions wnrP installed and are 
dorm's wiring in time for an curTnntly active. 
Oct. 27 activation. 
• STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Nothing new for Student Senate 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 

In its second meeting of the year, Student Senate looked at old business and deferred any decision-making. Constitutionality issues and a "Spirit of Inclusion" response will wait until next week, senators decided. 
Early in the meeting Lee Hambright spoke to the senate, offering a dose of pragmatism to an ongoing issue. Hambright's April appointment as student government assistant controller has been under fire since last spring because Hambright also serves as Hall Presidents' Council treasurer. 
Many senate members consider Hambright's dual-position holding a conflict of interests because it entitles him a voice in two of the eight seats on the Financial Management Board, which appropriates hundreds of thousands of dollars to student organizations. 
"I just wanted to tell you real quickly about what I do -it's not rocket science," Hambright told the senate. "People give me receipts, I give them to Nerea [Arrien, stu­dent government treasurer], and she gives them money." 
But more than pleading his case, Hambright asked the senate for closure on the issue, which has remained unresolved for 
so long that some senators now refer to it as "Lee-gate." (Above) LaFortune 
"I don't have any plans to take over tlw has been added to financial management board. If this is still an the long list of issue, tell me and I'll resign," Hambright places · where said. "Forty-five minutes on this issue at your
ResNet jacks are 
last meeting is just too much time wasted." 
being installed by Later in the meeting, the senate agreed to
the OIT. Students resolve the issue later -possibly at next
will be able to plug 
week's meeting where measures will be
in their laptops for 
introduced which specify how to deal witheasier on-line access. 
such matters of constitutionality. 

• Keough Hall Senator A.J. Boyd raised the question of whether the senate should take 
(Left) Students in action in the wake of Mother Teresa's death. DeBartolo Hall 
"I think it would be appropriate that we do 
enjoy using their 
something in memoriam. This is Notre 
computers. OIT is 
Dame," Boyd said.

currently expanding Rajit Basu, O'Neill Jlall's senator, proposedso that both on-and one of the most well-received ideas.
off-campus stu­
dents may be more "A day of service would be more fitting productive when in than any statue or other item money could popular campus buy," he noted. buildings. Senators agreed to ask their constituents 
for other possibilities. 

see SENATE I page 4 

Pulitzer Prize-winning economist visits Notre Dame 
By REBECCA HAMMEL !its. Barlett said that by empha­News Writer "Five thousand people lined sizing prices and the GOP, the up on a sid!~walk looking for an upper class and the govern­
The statistics that indicate opportunity to make beds is not ment have overlooked the that the United States is in the tho sign of a healthy economy," "humanity" of the economic midst of an economic boom do Barlett said. "A society built on issue. not rPflect the true economic the economic principle that all "None of the statistics reflect n~ality of the nation, according that matters is the lowest price the growing bitterness in soci­to Pulitzer Prize-winning greatly differs from a society ety and the mean streak run­author and investigative based on the principle that ning through it," he said. reporter Donald Barlett. everyone who wants to work "There have always been 
Commenting on the govnrn­can." wealthy people, but never mPnt's percpption of the econo­The competition to achieve before have they been so isolat­my, Barlett said that the rising the lowest prices, he continued, ed. Today's executives have indices in the stock market and forces American factories to gated communities and securi­tlw decreasing unemployment relocate abroad, causing more ty guards; there is no sense of lJPrcentage do not indicate the Americans to lose their jobs. community responsibility." "stability and social health" of "I'm not just talking about According to Barlett, modern tlw cou ntrv. blue collar workers," Barlett America tends to equate money 
II!~ expl<iined that the statis­emphasized. "This has spread with success. This contributes tics do not tell the story of the into white collar fields, espe­to a profound lack of respect millions of American people cially computer engineering." for the lower classes and the who are out of work, or the lie also criticized the govern­idea that they do not work as many others who make 50 per­ment's attempts to retrain hard as the higher-paid, upper cent of their previous salary workers for high technology classes. while still working longer occupations. "There aren't "Arrogance and elitism runs hours and n~ceiving no health enough high tech jobs to sup­care, pensions or fringe bene-port this country," he stated. see BARLETT I page 4 

Thursday, September 11, 1997
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
• iNSIDE COLUMN 

What's the Matter Here? 
Since when did going to a Notre Dame foot­ball game become an unpleasant experience? 
Since this past Saturday. 

As a senior. I have seen Notre Dame's sons march onward to victo­

ry for four years. As a Rachel Torres 
spectator from the stu-Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
dent section. I have 

truly enjoyed the experience. 
Until now. 

Some of the things I saw this weekend in 
the student section make it hard for me to 
believe our community of students is sup­
posed to be filled with some of the greatest 
minds in the nation. 

First, I must ask: What are the strategic 
masterminds thinking when they arrive min­
utes before kickoff expecting to sit in their 
assigned seats? I know I am not the only one 
this weekend who was hassled by these arro­
gant fools who assume that the whole student 
body will move over to accommodate their 
drunkenly stupefied selves. 
In my case, more than a handful of Notre 
Dame's finest arrived about 10 minutes 
before kickoff to literally push me out of their 
way so they could "claim their row." It takes 
incredibly cultured and refined young men to 
shove a 135 lb. young woman out of their 
way. It speaks volumes about the diplomacy 
skills of gentlemen who do this without asking 
the young woman first to please move. 
The early bird, as they say, gets the worm. 
It is a fact: almost everybody in the student 
section is sitting in somebody else's seat. 
Rather than insist upon claiming your real 
seat, simply go somewhere else to sit. As long 
as you're cheering for the same team with a 
group of friends, why should it matter if it's 
from a few rows farther away? 
It is hardly worth the hassle of summoning 
an usher or squishing too many people 
together to get your seat. You only make the 
people sitting around you begrudge you for 
the space you consume instead of their 
friends. and then nobody is happy. Or, if you 
must sit in your exact spot, arrive at the sta­
dium early to ensure that nobody else will sit 
in it. 

The language skills of many students were 
simple at best, as they could think of only a 
few choice adjectives to express their feelings. 
I do not take offense to swear words, but 
when the dreaded "f' word is shouted repeat­
edly in a derogatory way, it makes me 
ashamed to sit in the student section. 
Enough with the marshmallow fights, 
already!! Being smacked in the face with a 
gooey marshmallow hurled from less than 10 
feet away is not fun. One of the most disgust­
ing things I've ever seen was when a group of 
these marshmallow hooligans licked their 
marshmallows to make them sticky before 
they threw them. Classy, people. Really classy. 
Finally, I hope next time the freshmen will 
stop cheering when the alma mater plays. I go 
to Saint Mary's, and it's not my alma mater 
that is played, but I still know to stop and pay 
respect to it. The Saint Mary's community 
also takes part in game festivities and cheers 
from the student section. Mr. Davie might 
want to say hello next time. 
So. to the wonderful students who come to 
root for Irish: Please listen to what I've said, 
so that the game experience can be enjoyed 
by all. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tontw's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Jon King  
Laura Petelle  Production  
Sports  Heather MacKenzie  
Joe Cavaro  Laura Petelle  
Anrhony Bianco  Betsy Baker  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Brandon Williams  "Photo" Joe Stark  
Accent  
Joey Crawford  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi>hed Monday through Friday 
excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Macho Picchu escapes flames as drought-dried forest burns 


LIMA, Peru Fires burned out of control for a fifth day Wednesday in the moun­

'0 

Mach~
tains surrounding the lncan ruins of Machu Picchu, destroying spectacu­
\ Picchue ~
-f • Cusco <(
lar tropical forests and filling the ruins with smoke. 
' ' :ERU
'I.. ·_·····.'. :-_\_ J} , '·•., . ..._ .
While South America's top archae­
i ~'i ,.-· ·. 
ological treasure was safe, experts 
I l . PERU ' BRAZIL
l '\, .
feared the destruction of thousands 
: \, ' 1
of acres of nearby forest and smoke damage to the stone ruins would 
Pacifi~' ~ dan1ago Machu Picchu's attraction Ocean \~ ~ to tourists. '---'-"'--'co 
The ruins sit atop a craggy peak high in Peru's southern Andes Mountains. 
"The fires have lcf't the critical zone -where there 
Clinton pushes for 'fast-track' 
WASHINGTON 
Facing skepticism among Democrats, President Clinton asked Congress on Wednesday for expanded trade-negoti­ation authority that he said was "absolutely critical for our world lead­ership." Key Republicans reserved judgment until seeing details. "The global economy is on a very fast track to the 21st century. The question is """"'"--"--....___._ whether we are going to lead the way or follow," the president said in White I louse remarks as he embarked on a campaign akin to the 1993 struggle over NAFTA.. In general, Clinton is seeking restoration of authority that he and other presidents have had over nearly a quarter­century to negotiate international trade pacts subject to a speedy yes-or-no vote in Congress without amend­ments-a process known as "fast-track." Many Democrats arc poised to oppose the legislation unless it contains worker and environmental protections designed to prevent high-paying American jobs from disappearing beyond America's borders to nations where workers arc paid little and environmental protections are lax. On the other hand, many majority Hepublicans say they arc sympathetic to "fast-track" legislation but won't support the type of specific provisions that Democrats favor. 
Cadet's dad approves her suspension 
LEXINGTON, Va. 
The father of a female cadet suspended from Virginia Military Institute said Wednesday the school was sup­portive and dealt appropriately with his daughter after she punched an upperclassman. "They were extremely fair and very professional," said Pete Garza, an Army Chief Warrant Officer at Fort Belvoir, whose 18-year-old daughter was suspended Tuesday for two semesters. Angelica Garza, who deelined to talk about her suspen­sion, was a gung-ho recruit. She was the first of 30 women in the military school's inaugural coed class to attend an open house last fall. The freshrmm, called rats, are expected to take large doses of mental and physical harassment while remaining obedient and polite. The system teaches cadets not to crack under pressure.· Garza said he was told the incident happened in the bar­racks guard room Aug. 29. Miss Garza was being disci­plined for talking back to an upperclassman who had chided her for a minor infraction. A.s she was leaving, she apparently shoved an upperclassman and punchnd another, Garza said. VMI enrolled its first coed class last month after a 1996 Supreme Court ruling. 

o~ 
co 
/. 

are archaeological monuments and populated centers -but still burn with intensity," the government said in an official statp,ment. 
A nearby tourist hotel and 500 resi­dents who live near the ruins have been evacuated, and tourist visits to the aroa have been susponded until at least Sunday. The Inca Trail, a favorite hiking rout!~ for backpackers. is closed. 
The tropical forests around Machu Picchu arc ecologically sensitive and have a great biological diversity, including dozens of varintios of rare 
orchids, reptiles and trees. 
The fire was apparently started Saturday by peas­ants burning weeds to dear farmland on tlw banks of the nearby Urubamba Hiver. A. drought that has dried out vegetation in the area has accelerated the fire's spread. 
Cops grab Yamaguchi-gumi ga[lgsters 
TOKYO 
Police raided nearly 100 known gangster havens in Tokyo on Wednesday to quell a smoldering gang war, and thousands of people rallied for toughm· action against organized crime. The action by about 700 offi­cers followed sweeping raids Tuesday on gang-related buildings, apartments and offices in Kobe and neighbor­ing areas in western .Japan. A Metropolitan Police Department spokesman said eight Yamaguchi-gumi gangsters were arrested on charges ranging from illegal possession of weapons to assault; warrants were issued for two more gangsters. Gang-related violence has bro­ken out across .Japan since Masaru Takumi, a top under­world boss, was gunned down two weeks ago in Kobe coffee shop. Police believe the death of Takumi was the result of a power struggiB within the Yamaguchi-gumi, Japan's largest crime syndicate. Takumi was the second­in-command. At Wednesday's anti-crinw rally, aetor­director .Juzo ltami told the crowd of about 5,000 that he was thankful for their courage. ltami was attacked by gangsters five years ago after the release of "Minbo no Onna" (The Gentle Art of .Japanese Extortion), a movio critical of the underworld. llis face was slashed n~peat­edly. Over the past several years, a S!~ries of scandals also have rev!lalcd dose links betwePn gangsters and some of .Iapan's leading banks and politici<tns. 
Scots vote on independent Parliament 
EDINBUHCII, Seotland 
British leaders and independence-seeking nationalists urged Scots on Wednesday to trust their instincts and vote for a separate Scottish Parliament. Opinion polls indicated the politicians needn't have botlwred. Scots appeared virtually certain to vote for the new Parliament in Thursday's referendum. Prime Minister Tony Blair, in a television interview from London, told Scots "to vote for a new and modern S!)tll!)nHmt for Scotland." The for­mation of a 129-membcr body in Edinburgh, which would control most domestic matters, pass laws and eould raise taxes, and the !~reation of a less powPrful assembly for Wales wern a key part of the platl'orm on which Blair's Labor Party swept to power May 1. /\ low voter turnout or a rejection of the tax-raising pownr -a second question on the ballot-would bn a major rebuff for his government. The Welsh votn, whit'11 appears too close to call, is Sept. 18. Blair hopes that a y!)S in Scotland will boost tlw chance of a yes vote in Wains. !\ poll publishml in the Edinburgh-based S!~otsman showed 63 percent in favor of a Scottish parliament, 25 perrent against and 12 percent undecided. 
• NAT!OI\lt\L WEATHEB 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 11. 
AccuWenther~» forecast for d:.1ytime conditions ami high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

·········<H L 

Thursday ~ 71 51 Friday ~ 75 56 Satur~ay ~ 78 59 
\

Sunday ~ 79 59 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
,> 

Pressure
Monday ~ 73 53 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES
;_5"-"-J"'' 
V1a AssOCiated Press 
Atlanta  83  61  Dallas  91  
9.9,Q9~Qi1~u  Baltimore Boston  78 73  69 61  Denver 83 Los Angeles 85  
Showers  T-storms Rain  Flurries  Snow  fee  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Chicago  74  49  Miami  90  
Vta Assoctated Press Graph1csNet  Columbus  73  56  Minneapolis  76  

© 1997 AccuWealher, lnc. 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY 
68 New Orleans88 
55 New York 74 
69 Philadelphia 79 
76 Phoenix 103 
53 St. Louis 
78 

CLOUDY 
68 
63 
64 
81 
52 
---~ ~~------------~-~----------------­
-------------------~----­
Thursday, September 11, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

African writer speaks of post-apartheid developments 
By DINA BRICK News Writer 
South Africa's recP.ntly established Truth and Hnconciliation Commission could bn "one of the most sig­nificant instruments of nation­building" that post-aparthl)id South Afriea has seP.n, accord­ing to Njabulo Ndebele, writor and vice-chancellor of the Univt)rsity of the North in Sownga, South Africa. 
Speaking to a crowd of almost ISO last night at the Center for Continuing Education, Ndebele recog­nized the commission as a tes­tament to the spirit of rebuild­ing, open debate, and co­dependence between white and black South Africans. l-Ie 
also noted the continuing ten­
sions and difficulties that the 
new order faces. 
NdebelP. opened the lecture 
by tracing the history of 
oppression in his country. 
Beginning with the establish­
ment of the African National 
Congress in 1912, he contin­
ued through the present post­
apartheid tensions and looked 
toward the future. According 
to Ndebele. apartheid was 
ended not because of a sudden 
miracle, but due to the slow 
developments and progresses 
made over the years. "A cur­
rent order has in fact been 
born out of many moments of 
difficulty," he stated, stressing 
the importance of keeping the 
nation's history present in the 
public mind. 

"The Best Tan 
...........~.~.~.~~.~~.~.~~~.': ......... 1 
• Beds1 Booths & Euros ~ 
• 
Open 7 Days AWeek 

• 
Convenient Hours 

• 
Student Discounts 


Gwrantecd S4lis{action! 
256-9656 
G'--lt! k M<;Koo.Ev 
NEAIK·Mm 
Ndebele dedicated a large portion of his talk toward the sharing "of some voices which should be heard." He quoted several people who had been directly affected by apartheid violence and human rights violations. 
Some of these individuals included Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who is the chairperson of the commission, relatives of disappeared activists, people advocating children's rights, and even perpetrators them­selves. The commission, stat­ed Ndebele, brings the person­al into the public domain, which encourages open debate, discussion, and peace­ful solutions. 
The reaction to the commis­sion has not been entirely pos­itive. Many people, especially victims, have had difficulty accepting amnesty for what they see as seemingly sense­less killings and disappear­ances. 
Ndebele was quick to point out the necessity of co-depen­dence and cooperation between the black majority and white minority. The majority has a vision for the new state but, due primarily to continued oppression, lacks many skills and resources which are necessary for an efficient government. The minority, on the other hand, needs to b.e reassured of their continued importance in a unified society. 

The Observer/Alan McWalters 
Njabulo Ndebele, in his lecture about the Truth and Reconciliation Commission said that it was established as part of a Truth Act passed in 1995 "to provide for the investigation and establishment of a com­plete picture of the extent of the gross human rights violations" which occurred during South Africa's long history of apartheid. 
-----------,---------------------------,



Speak out... 
Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
THE BETTER PIZZA PEOPLE 
s~ut':' 
'~7tfi. 
\6S33'". w-_ --­Notre oarn 

"···" s<>ut.li;;· 
~C~)~q ].401 E~ \ 
accept Credit Cards 
Mastercard American Express Visa Discover 
Thursday, September II, 1997
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
How're them fish bitin' today? 

The Observer/ Alan McWalters 
Daring the cloudy skies and intermittent rain, Mike Romanchek, a sophomore from Keenan Hall, practiced his fly fishing technique in front of North Dining Hall yesterday afternoon. 
• CORRECTION 

In an article about the Nanovic Center for European Studies on Tuesday, the Center was said to make "ten $10,000 under· graduate grants" every year. The Center actually gives ten $1,000 undergraduate grants. The article also misidentified visiting member of the British Parliament Graham Allen as Tony Jude. Tony Jude, a British scholar, will be brought to campus in March as part of the Center's m. 
=·=·=·=·=·<< 

The Observer regrets the errof.i/+ 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
"This is a good idea, and we need morn good ideas like that, so take it back to your hall councils and talk it over with them," senate chairman Erek Nass instructed. 
Boyd also announced that memorial Mass will bn lwld 
5:15 p.m. Friday in the Basilica of tlw Sacred llnart. 
• Morrissey senator Matt Szabo, chair of the ad-hoe committee on "Spirit of Inclusion" proposnd that the 


Barlett 
continued from page I 
through the top level of soci­ety," lw said. "If you look for it, it is everywhere. 
"Anyone who gets their hands dirty or dons assembly work is someone to bn looked down upon," Barlett continued. 
He indicated that this atti­tude is also reflected in govern­ment policies. "Why is it acceptable for CEO's to receive salary increases of 400 percent while workers cannot get a 4 percent wage increase?" Barlett questioned. lie said that such policies only augment the disintegration of the middle dass, a factor which will have a major influence on the eco­nomic balance of the nation. 
Barlett used a very personal tone in his lncture by relating the stories of the people that he had interviewed for his inves­tigative reports. Most of the individuals who are laid off are middle aged and have no possi­bility of going back to school to obtain new skills. 
He said that formnr blue eol­lar workers remain unem­ployed or descend to a lower job where they are paid hall' the wages they prnviously made. Many fall to a state of poverty; some are so depressed senate wait until after Monday's Campus Life Couneil 

(C:LC) meeting to formulatn a rnsponse to thn University's "Spirit of lnelusion" docunwnt. 
"If wn want to look at lthn CLC's formal responsnl and then adopt that, I think it would save a lot of bickering and dnbating. Wn'll have something on the table next week," Szabo said. 
• 
Thn senate also approved the appointment of Casey Mangine as governmf1nt con­trollnr. Hobert Vitt, l<tst spring's appointnn, resigned. 

• 
During officer remarks, student body presidr,nt Matt 


that they turn to suicide. 
Barlett contrasts this dis­heartnning trnnd in the labor force with the $S billion in bonuses given out by Wall Street in 199(>, representing the largest bonus year in histo­ry. 
Barlett summed up the frus­tration of thn disparaging labor force by saying, "If this is sueh a booming economy, why does a woman pray for a job for hcrsPlf'?" hn questioned. "Why do people wait in line for a job making beds and why do pno­ple take their lives? Why aren't therr, any new, imaginative, innovative solutions to the problem?" 
One possible option he sug­gested is the creation of tariffs to equalize the wage disparity between the United Statns and foreign countries. According to Barlett, "Totally free, unfet­ten~d trade is rnsulting in the greatest incomn disparity in history." 
Barlett bclievns that America has br,come a nation of extremes, as its trade has nithnr been governed by unre­stricted trade or severe protec­tionist tariffs. "What WP have lost sight of in this country is the cPnter," said Barlett. "Dnmocracy cannot survive in a country with such Pconomic extrmnes." 
Griffin told the senate that the semestnr has begun well for his offlc11. Griffin was nspPcial­ly plnasnd with thn introduc­tion of their informational publication "Tiw Campus !look-up." 
"We only lost $I 00 on the first C:aampus !look-up, whieh was groat bncausn thny origi­nally thought it'd cost $800." he explained. 
• Next Tunsday, student gov­ernmnnt will hold an opnn house on the sncond l'loor of' LaFortunn with thn hope of' recruiting freshmen to beeome involved in studont govrrn­mPnt, according to Griffin. 
• BRIEFS 

Lockheed Martin recently 
presented the University 
with a $20,000 grant to sup­
port minority scholarships 
for graduate and undergrad­
uate students in ~ts College 
of Engineoring. 
In presenting the grant, 
Michael Smith. corporate 
vice president of Lockheed 
Martin, mentioned the 
importance of diversity in 
Lockheed Martin's recruiting 
efforts and praised the quali­
ty of Notre Dame's engineer­
ing research programs. 
Notre Dame has received a 
grant of $100,000 from the 
Merill Lynch Foundation for 
MBA fellowships for interna­
tional students from Asian 
countries. 

The Merrill Lynch gmnt is 
a component of the 
University's $767 million 
"Generations" campaign. 
Announced last May, 
''Generations" is the largest 
fund-raising campaign in the 
history of Catholic higher 
education and the ninth 
largest capital campaign 
now in progress in American 
academe. 


Headed to West Lafayette for the game??? 
the ~oi\er ~om 
tavern and danc.e dub is the only place to be ! ! ! ! 
• 
TV's, dart boards, music, foosball, etc. 

• 
Two floors of fun and entertainment 

• 
The best food in town, our wings are unrivaled • our upstairs is a dance club you would only 


expect to find in the "big cities" • our DJ's are the best in the area, hands down 
• 
Our doors open on Friday at 4PM and don't close until JAM 

• 
Game day starts at 7 AM with "Breakfast Club", and doesn't end until the wee hours of Sunday morning 


We arc located at 306 West State Street, only two blocks from campus 
the ~oi\er \Z-oom 
tavern and danc.e dub ?ov W ~tate ~treet 1v?-14v-51oo 
Thursday, September 11, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

SMC series begins with Christianity 
Christian society, she contin­ued, is to express these Christian practices "in words, ideas, and images." 
"So often today," Bass said, "spirituality is seen as some­thing inward. Christian spiri­tuality requires more it is something we share." 
Bass offered some sugges­tions for Christians to begin the pattern of practicing these important qualities. 
She stressed that it is important for families to be involved in these practices together in order to instill such patterns in their chil­dren. She also said organiza­tions such as Habitat for Humanity are good ways to become involved in the prac­tice of Christian qualities. 
Bass expressed disappoint­ment in tho small number of students in attendance, and hoped the rest of the series would have a greater student turnout. 
The lectures in the fall serios are each Wednesday in Stapleton Lounge, Lemans Hall from 12:05 to 12:50 p.m. Tho lecture next Wednesday will be given by Dr. Keith Egan, and is entitled "Me? Meditate?" 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally-circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

By RACHEL TORRES 
News Writer 
Ilow new can the old be? 
The Saint Mary's Fall Lncture Series will try to answnr that question in this, its 13th year. 
The lectures began WndtH~sdav afternoon with Dorothy B;tss. director of the Valparaiso Project on the Education and Formation of Pnople in Faith at Valparaiso University. 
Bass focused on how mod­ern Christians can retrieve elements o!' Christian life that may have been lost through the years. 
Starting with an example citing "random acts of kind­nnss," Bass said that "people who need kindness need it more than randomly. and peo­ple who offnr kindness must make a pattnrn of giving it." 
Bass said that the pattern of Christian kindness is the key that will bridge the space between old and new Christian life. 

Tho way to develop this pat­tern, according to Bass, is with continual practice. She encouraged individuals to "practice giving voice to love and praise, practice forgive­ness, and practice hospitali­ty." 
The constant repetition of these Christian qualities over time, she said, will make them become a pattern in everyday life and enhance a modern Christian tradition. 
These and other Christian qualities, such as testimony and stewardship, are demon­strated in Bible stories and are first done by God. Bass said these qualities were kept alive by "faith communities to give praise to God," and were handed down in Christian tra­dition through the ages. 
"Our way of life is made up of a cluster of practices," Bass said, "which address funda­montal human needs and con­ditions." 
The way to develop in a 
The University of Notre Dame International Study Program at: 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
SPRING 1998 Information Meeting With Professor Silvia Rojas-Anadon 
THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 11, 1997 4:30PM 205 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER I. 1997 Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
Take advantage of these valuable rebates available at your campus bookstore through 1 0·31-97. 
Cir 6 Multimedia Studio Explore the most powerful tools for multimedia and the Web. 
c 6 
with Electronic Documentation Explore the most powerful tool for multimedia and the Web. 
Graphic Studio 7 Explore the most powerful design tools for print and internet graphics. 

Frel 7 
Explore the most powerful design tool for print and internet graphics. 
FlaEi'h Explore the easiest way to create fast Web multimedia. 
·see specially marked boxes at your campus bookstore for details. Director 6 with Electronic Documentation available to students and faculty only. 2906.8.97. 
time office holders. 

"We are both proud and e:xcited to lead Holy Cross," . The Residence . 1-tall said presidBnt Mary Ellen 
; Association at. Saint N{aiy~s Blumreich. She added that .Colleg~now-ha~{ull.:reprBsen• tile executive board is looking tation after elections h(lld y~s·; forward to resident participa­te~~ayto deterpiine tile e:xe~· tion in hall events. uti¥e boair~s of.AI11lUnciata, ''We are working with and HolyC:ross.a:ndRegina H{l.lls. for our residents to make 
. Officers of the l)HA ·· we're  
pl~a;sedthafall  ..······ .... ,  ..  •  
· 

t·..·h..-.··.·.·.·.·_r_e ..·e ... •. 'W·.. ere excited .
..• e __ ._s_·.i_·_.~_e_._n_·_.•·.c_.. ..•• . · 
.. halls are now ·. · about the phe­
• 

represehtf;l~. I 
· "We.... .h?.Y(i nomena women who thr(;l~ exc~Ue:rtt have been elected, and 
~0~~\ngcf~en~~~ we look forward to existingcounqils integrating their ideas f r o m into the RHA.' 
McCandless _arid LeMan!:),'' said RHA president Barbara Nolan Bridget vicepresidentofRHA Sullivan. "Noyv 
Holy Cross the best it can," she 
said.
Remaining e x e c u t i v e board mem­
hers in Holy 
~cfudo~ ~ic! 
president J e n n i f e r A p pIe ton, secret a r y A n n Pangilinan, and treasur· 
the hall boards can work col· er Vera Nackovic. 
lectively to institute theirplat• The final residence hall to " hold· elections was Regina. J:he executive board in Regina is placing an emphasis on hall ...•.. unity. The_board is composed .·.. ··· of Amalia Gonzalez as presi­dent; Sarah Martin as vice res:J(tfmt; Janelle Damrow as ~r.rjfltl'l·rv_··•·• and. Mary Jones as 
first goal is hall 
•.. said Martin. "We want residents to get involved 
committees and come to 111ee1m~(S because it Shouldn't 
b . the executive board · · h.,,,,.,,h,odin planning events." · _was pleased with uu!uuot}t of residents who time to vote. was only one 
it tunllin,gin each hall, residents vot­vote for the 
402 E.Madison South Bend 
23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227) 
THURSDAY (OLLEGE NIGHTS 
SEPTEMBER 11TH FEATURING 
SKALCOHOLIKS 
(7 PCS. SKA & FUNK BAND WITH HORNS) Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security ­Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00 pm 
Coming Thursday, Sept. 18 TASHI STATION Don't get evicted-Hold your off campus party at Jazzman's-no rental cost-must be 21 or over 
233-8505 

~----~---------------,..._......, 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September I 1, I 997 
--~~---------------------~~~------~~ 

Unleash big savings. AT&T presents the largest student discount program ever. FREE. 

Choose AT&T. And we'll give you a free one-year Student Advantage® membership. Use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors 
like these: 

~ 
.,••II 
Greyt10lrld

U.u,. ,.,. M©>bil" 
~ ~ 

MOTOI'HOTO
PfARJEV!sKJN• ~mo. The Eljllrooce MakBs the Dlfferenor kinko•s· Ill
,.,.,.C....FwE,..-7~~oo-THEATRES 

Choose AT&T. Get a Student Advantage membership. FREE. 
C a II 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/collegelnp.html 
It's all within your reach. 
ATs.T 
Student Advantage offer valid for AT&T Residenttal Long Dtstance. AT&T Catting Card and AT&T Universal Card customers. © 1997 AT&T 
Thursday, September 11, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 •ISRAEL 




Albright demands crackdown on terrorist acts 
By BARRY SCHWEID Albright advised him to open not the sardines" behind sui­
A<Sociared Press Writer the borders to Palestinian cide bombing attacks, Albright 
workers and resume repay­said Israel should pull back on 
ments to the Palestinian occupied lands, as promised in 
.JERUSALEM Authority . the 1993 Oslo peace accords. After consoling Israeli and That would help Arafat sus­Peacemaking "cannot pro­American victims of suicide tain an offensive against terror­ceed without reciprocity," bombs, Secretary of State ism over the long run, said the Albright said in reminding Madeleine Albright urged official, briefing reporters on Netanyahu at a news confer­Palestinian leader Yasser Albright's three-hour meeting ence that there must be "give Arafat on Wednesday to crack with Netanyahu on condition of and take" on both sides of the down on terrorists before anonymity. Israeli-Palestinian divide. 
expecting any tradeoff's with Albright, making her first trip Netanyhau did not seem Israel. to the Mideast as secretary of impressed with the argument, But Albright also told Israeli state, was due to meet Arafat or with the arrest by Arafat's 
Prime Minister Benjamin Thursday in the West Bank Palestinian Authority of scores Netanyahu that peacemaking town of Ramallah. of terrorism suspects. After rr.quired "give and take" on In a clear split with Israel released about $13 mil­both sid1~s. A senior State Netanyahu, who is demanding lion of a $80 million debt of Department official said Arafat arrest "the sharks and withheld taxes, "the response I 
For Students, and Families 

presents 
.. UNDERSTANDING FOOTBALL.. 
6 Monday  Seminar topics:  
Evenings, 7·9p.m.  Offense, Defense,  
starting  the Kicking Game,  
September 15th  Demonstrations  
Jordan  & Particpation  
TOM PAGNA  

Former Offensive Backfield Coach 
for Reservations Call 
Sponsored 219/233-3486 by Home Fee: $60 
Management Services-.. ....._.____~_ _.., 
got was an embrace and a kiss for leaders of Ham as," Netanyahu said. · "If you say one good deed deserves another, we deserved something else," the prime minister said, referring to Arafat's embrace of a leader of the militant guerrilla group after it claimed responsibility for a bombing of a Jerusalem market July 30 that killed 15 civilians and two bombers. On Sept. 4, suicide bombings took the lives of five civilians and three bombers. 
Albright visited Israeli victims at the Hadassah University hos­pital at Mount Scopus. "When you actually see the people and see the individual injuries it brings it home," she said of the bloody attack. 
At the start of a drive to sal­vage the battered peace effort, Albright bolstered Israel's anxi­eties about terrorism that has claimed 176 civilians and 67 soldiers since the Oslo accord was concluded in September 1993. 
"Security is at the center of my agenda," Albright said out­side the prime minister's office. 
"There is no moral equivalent between killing people and building houses," she said, referring to Palestinian com­plaints that Israel was expand­ing its grip on Jerusalem, expanding Jewish settlements and leveling the homes of Palestinians in retaliation for terrorist raids. 
While there is no way to pre­vents all acts of terror, Israel has "a right to expect a com­prehensive effort in de-legit­imizing those who practice it," Albright said. "The Palestinian Authority must take unilateral steps and actions to root out the terrorist infrastructure.'' 
The Palestinians accuse Netanyahu of using security as a excuse to evade commitments for phased pullbacks on the West Bank and other peace­making gestures. 
But Netanyahu said: "Before we are asked to give additional territory we have a right to demand ... a vigorous effort to fight terrorists and dismantle their structure." 
A senior Palestinian official, Hanan Ashrawi, was sharply critical of the way Albright began her one-week visit to the region, saying she displayed "a wholeheartedly one-sided approach." 
On a personal note, Albright toured the Yael Vashem muse­um to victims of the World War II Jewish Holocaust. 
The director, Avner Shalev, gave her some 60 pages of doc­uments that may add to what she has learned about Jewish relatives who died in the Terezin concentration camp in the Czech Republic, where she was born to Jewish parents in 1937. 
Albright, reared a Roman Catholic and now an Episcopalian, went to her native land last week to research the origins that she said this year had only become known to her after her appoint­ment in January as secretary of state. 
The Cause and Treatment of Male
, 



HomosexuaLity 
"Our society must tolerate homosexuality and respec't the right of gay citizens to live their own lives-but we must never be pressured into a position of gay advocac . We must understand the homosexual condition for what it is: a developmental disorder, and not a developmental path which will lead to full maturity." , 
-The NARTH credo 
The Strake Foundation presents 
Dr. Joseph N ico los i., Ph.D. 
Dr. Nicolosi, a Cattwlic and practicing psychologist, is the Executive Director of the National Association of Research and Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH), a psychiatric care 
project that helps homosexuals who wish to 
change their sexual orientation. B.ased on his 
clinical research and experience of treating over 
400 homosexual men, Dr. Nicolosi has been able 
to help many men become free of their compelling 
homosexual attractions, and has helped some to a 
major orientation shift-even to their goal of 
marriage. In a recently completed survey of its 
clients who are in transition from homosexuality, 
NARTH found that respondents recount "very 
significant improvements in self-esteem, self­
understanding, and unwanted homosexual 
behaviors and feelings." Dr. Nicolosi does not 
maintain that reparative therapy is a quick or 
easy process, nor a "cure" that guarantees the 
erasure of all future homosexual feelings. He 
hopes his lecture will contribute to the campus 
discussion on the pastoral care of homosexuals. 
Thursday, Sept. II Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 8:00 
Sponsored by the Jacques Maritain 


The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 11, 1997

Get AT&T One Rate. FREE. And don't worry about the time or the distance. 

If you live off campus, choose AT&T Long Distance and sign up for AT&T One Rate. Free. You'll also get a free one-year membership to Student Advantage'-the largest student discount program ever. 
• 
AT&T One Rate: only 15¢ a minute on calls from home-to anybody, 

anytime, anywhere in the U.S. 

• 
Student Advantage: use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors-like Kin.ko's:·· Tower Records' and Amtrak~' 


Live off campus? Get AT&T One Rate and a Student Advantage membership. FREE. 
Call 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/co//ege/np.html 
It's all within your reach. 




AT&T 
Student Advantage offer valid for AT&T Residential Long D1stance customers. © 1997 AT&T 
Thursday, September 11, 1997 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• AFGHANISTAN 
Taliban approach opposiition stronghold, bomb city 
By ANTHONY SHADID stronghold for a second day, aid Associated Press Writer workers said. The Taliban religious army, KABUL. Afghanistan which controls the southern 
Taliban warplanes bombed two-thirds of the country and the northern city of Mazar-e­aspires to turn Afghanistan into Sharif on Wednesday as fighting a strict Islamic state. is battling erupted around the opposition a northern-based opposition 
We're not playing Georgia Tech 
in our Season Opener. 
We're playing Gershwin... 
...and Rachmaninov and Sbostakovich 
This Sunday, September 14 at 3P.M. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Moreau Center for the Arts on the Campus of Saint Mary':sOOii!kl.=;;;;~ 
Get involved in 1997-98 JPW 
The committeefor this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is lookingfor a Sophomore Chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one ofthe most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
•Applications are now available at the 
LaFortune Information Desk. 
•Applications must be returned to 
31 5 Lafortune by September 26. 
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL ]EFF jONES AT XI631. 

Meet Herbert Benson. M.D.. founder of the Harvard Mind/Body Medical Institute, and explore his pioneering mind/body approach to medical treatment. 
Dr. Benson is here to celebrate the opening of the new Saint Joseph's Mind/Body Medical Institute Mind/Body medicine combines relaxation-response 
techniques. nutrition. exercise Free Public Seminar and cognitive therapies along with standard medical practices. Mind/Body and Dr. Benson is the author of Spirituality in Medicine: "The Relaxation Response." and ANew Frontier with 
several other books. His latest 
Herbert Benson, M.D. 
work is "Timeless Healing: The
Sept. 11, 8p.m., 
Power and Biology of Belief." 
Joyce Center, 
Join us at 8 p.m. on September ll
University of Notre Dame. 
and find out how to use your
Free Parking 
mind/body and spiritual powers. 
@ 
Saint Joseph's Mind/Body Medical Institute 801 E. LaSalle Ave. • South Bend. 1N 4661 7 239-6107 A Member of Saint Joseph s C&e Gruur an<i Holy Cross Hml:ll System 
coalition on at least four differ­ent fronts. 
Artillery guns rattled off sev­eral shells a minute Wednesday around Maza-e-Sharif, the workers said. Armed men roamed the city, looting offices of aid agencies and stealing equipment and vehicles. Several people were killed in the grow­ing lawlessness. 
The Red Cross had a plane ready to evacuate some staff and bring emergency aid into the city. 
The fighting was the latest in a country wracked by war for decades. More than 1.5 million Afghans have died in power struggles since the 1980s. 

Three days ago, the Taliban advanced toward Mazar-e­Sharif, briefly capturing the air­port and seizing land on the city's outskirts. It was the first time the Taliban had threatened the opposition stronghold since being tossed out of it in May. 
But the opposition alliance retook the airport -located five miles east of the city -and still had it Wednesday, aid workers said. The Taliban, a few miles away, controlled a main road to the city, said Younis Qanuni, an opposition spokesman in Mazar-e-Sharif. 
Despite the insecurity, the Red Cross planned to maintain a presence in Mazar-e-Sharif "as 

College of Engineering 



INDUSTRY DAY 1997 
September 23 & 24 
Reception & Banquet 
Sept. 23@ 6:30 pm Monogram Room in the JACC Business Attire *Deadline for Registration: Sept. 12* 
Career Fair Sept. 24 @ 1 0:00-4:00 pm Fitzpatrick Hall Business Attire *Don't forget to bring resumes!* 
For more information on INDUSTRY DAY visit our website at 
http://www.nd.edu/-jec/industry day 

Closing Reception for exhibition of internationally known sculptor George Rickey. George Rickey will speak about his work. 
7:45-10:45 pm Cinema at the Snite: The Fifth Element 
*FIRST FLOOR MUSEUM GALLERIES WILL REMAIN OPEN UNTIL IO:OO PM.* 

~----_..--------~------­





VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, September II, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor............................ Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager ............................. jed Perers Viewpoint Editor ....... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager....................jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ...................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor...........................Joey Cr;1wford Systems Manager ..................... Michael Brouillet Saine Marv's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller... . .......................... Kyle Carlin Pho[O Edi~or .......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflecr the policies of the administration ofeither instirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediwr. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediwr, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe aurhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Sysrems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accenr/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-530.1  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoim.l @nd.edu  
Generallnformarion  6.11-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• POSTCARDS fROM MEXICO 
Just Don't Tell Them You're American 
Never tell a taxi driver in Mexico City that you are an American. Too much trouble. 
In Chicago, if you take a taxi for half an hour it will cost you $35. In Mexico City, it will cost you four. The catch is 
Bernadette Pampuch 

that the Chicago taxi driver will proba­
bly not try to swindle you out of money, 
fondle your thigh and leave you on a 
darkenPd street corner based on your 
nationality. Either way, don't say you're 
American unless you are prepared to 
slap someone, grab your wallet and 
run. 
I 
Taxis here are candy-apple green Volkswagen Beetl~s driven by anyone, no matter how old. with enough eye­sight left to distinguish "day" from "night." They are always driven by men. and always driven badly. Musical 
selections come in only two varieties,
i polka and religious talk radio. Taxi dri­vers always take advantage of 
Americans. 
People who are forced to take taxis every day, like me, learn to watch what they wear and what they say. Jewelry indicatPs that you have money, and money means that you might be robbed. Saying that you are American implies that you have money. 
The last time I told a taxi driver that I was American was the first time I had someone over the age of 60 put their hand quite that far up my leg. American women travelling alone at night in Mexico City apparently do not have a very good reputation, and the taxi dri­ver decided that because I was American I probably wouldn't mind paying double before he unlocked the door and let me out. After I screamed and was dumped unceremoniously on a street corner, I decided to put my skills as a creative writing major to good usc. The next time I got into a taxi no one bothered me at all. 
"Where am I from, senor? I'm from Monserrat. Yes, we are a very poor peo­ple. Very, very poor. No money at all. Very poor. Island nation, you know." 
I have finally realized that th0 only way to be safe from crime at all is by claiming residency in a country poorer than Mexico. I have narrowed it down to Monserrat, Brazil and Belize. 
"Yes, senor, we are a very poor coun­try. Very, very poor. But prourl. What? The capital of Belize? Tegucigalpa. Very mountainous. Lots of sheep." 
Yesterday, I had the great fortune of stumbling into the taxi of Mr. Juan Jose Miramontes Flores, who used to be a tour guide until he was fired by his American boss. Lovely man. Nice floor mats. Not very keen on Americans. lie asked me where I was from. Thinking quiekly, I took note of his dashboard­mounted Kleenex holdnr adorned with a palm-sized Brazilian flag. After first ascertaining whether he was Brazilian or not (not) and V~ohether he spoke Portuguese (didn't), I faithfully owned up to being a foreigner. 
"Yes, senor, I'm from Brazil. We are a very poor people. Very, very poor." 
Mr. Miramontes Flores confessed to being the world's biggest fan of Brazilian soccer, at which point he asked me which was my favorite player. I told him the one with the big hair. I thought it best not to admit that I eouldn't name a Brazilian soceer player any more than I could name the capital of Belize. 
"What is Hio de Janeiro like'? Mountainous. Lots of sheep. Of course there's a beach. The mountains sort of run into the beach. Sand. Lots of sand. Did I mention we are a poor people?" 
I was not lucky enough to make it home before he asked me to speak Portuguese. I compensated by making 

lots of guttural noises and throwing in 
random foreign phrases. 
"Bate forte o tambor. Eu quero e tie tic, tic tac. Estou bebida. Sprochen Sie Deutsch'? Moshi-moshi." 
Not all taxi drivr.rs in Mexico City af'() bad. I have mot fathers working two jobs to snpport thoir family, architects who make more money driving people around town. orw ex-boxing champion and several starving artists. 
Occasionally I get taxi drivers who tell me why tlwir wife left them. how they got started driving taxis, and why tlwy hat!J gringos because of the devaluation. They generally tell me that last pieeo of information when it's dark outside and wo are in a deserted part of the city. I usually nlspond by telling them about the folkloric dances of Belize. 
If you do need to take a taxi anywhere within Mexico City, ask the driver if he knows where you are going before you get in; once in the taxi, make sure that hn is carrying a govnrnment-isstwd identity card somewhere within sight and that the photo on the card matches thn driver. Whil!~ grn<~n Volkswagen taxis an~ most plentiful. tlwre are also a f<~w yellow otws which charge a slightly lower prien. llighnr-priced green sPdan taxis originatP from thn airport and charg<~ morn for providing tours as well as taxi snrvicns; the driv<Jrs usuallv speak English. In all cases. mak<~ sure the taxi is in good eondition and tlw taxi driver is familiar with tlw city. 
And for safnty's sakP, remmnber: nover tell a taxi driver in Mexico City that you're AmPrican. 
!Jernadelle Pampuch, 5)MC '97. is a graduate literature student in Mexico City this year with a scholarship from Rotary International. 1/er e-mail is bpampuch@holmail. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and are no/nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
• 0001\!ESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 


VIE~7POINT 
Thursday, September 11, 1997 page 11 
• lETTER To THE EDITOR 
Reply: Hey, Girls Just Want to Have Fun 
I'm writing in response to together, male-bonding, and do not think that she is truly a tight shirt? Are females sup­dothing has never been one of Brittney Nystrom's article doing things like running aware of this. "Bitchtostal" posed to feel self-conscious them. Why aren't females n~gard ing what she rel'ers to through the library naked? Do does not sound to me like a and cheap just because of allowed the same option that as "Bitchtostal," and her dis­they lower the status of males school related function, nor a what they wear? males are? appointment in tlw females in gender relations? Why does political statement. It was Nystrom's last sentence I think it would be interest­who supposedly participated Nystrom decide to let these merely a group of social, fun, sums up her argument: "These· ing for Nystrom to write a in the (Went. events slide, and yet condemn intelligent girls who wanted to women could have found a response as to what ramifica­
Tlwre was never a drinking the actions of her sisters at start off an intensely difficult .better way to celebrate female tion the supposed "Bitchtostal"
.• 
contest at Coach's; Nystrom is Notre Dame'! It seems to me Notre Dame semester with a friendship than by referring to has had on gender relations at totally incorrect when she that perhaps Nystrom is show­little bit of silliness, and per­themselves by a derogatory Notre Dame. I respect Nystrom claims "I witnessed an all­ing that females have not real­haps a littllc immaturity. The name, flashing their skin, get­for her opinion, but I think she f'(~male drinking contest." With ly advanced that far, because · South Quad girls did not wear ting drunk and therefore per­has to lighten up and realize that small faetor out of the she displays the same attitude Confederate flags in order to petuating stereotypes that a that it sounds like a bunch of way, I'm ready to present my that was prevalent in the condone slavery or racism. It's lot of women have worked to girls just got together to have argument. 1950s. llow are women sup­a simple historical fact that tear clown." That's an interest­a great time. 
In my opinion, it's females posed to unite under one front the Confederate flag repre­ing statement. Funny, the like Nystrom who make the if females arc condemned by sents the term "south," hence, stereotypes that I thou&_ht gendnr gap even larger. If other females for doing some­it represented "south" quad. women were trying to tear anything, what shn deseribes thing that has become a norm Now I come to my favorite clown were the ones that place Megan McCormick as "Bitchtostal" is actually an for males? part of Nystrom's argument, women as baby machines who Senior nxample of females lnssening In her artiele, Nystrom says, that the South Quad girls were belong in the kitchen. Of all September I 0, 1997 tlw gap in gender equality. "I understand that this was "running around in revealing the complaints I have heard llow many times do wn see merely a group of friends hav­outfits." Since when is it males make regarding the groups o(guys gathering ing a good time." However, I degrading for a female to wear girls at Notre Dame, skimpy 
• TABLE TAUt 
I lave you nvPr heard a Michael behavior differs from those of the group. .Jackson jokn'! Thern arn usually about In that regard, ridicule seems like the a hall' dozen floating around at any best kind of humor, a sort of rejoicing in giwn time. and they usually capitalizn the little differences that make us on tlw singpr's strangn tastes and tBn­unique. Right? dnncins. nvnrything from sleeping in an Let tne try a different approach: when­oxygPn tPnt to undergoing surgery to ever we make fun of someone, our n•durn his skin pignwntation. object is usually to make them feel 
ashamed of whatever they're doing that conflicts with the accepted norms of the group. Most psychologists will tell you that shame is a defensive response, a fear of being "left behind" by the group 
unless certain counter-social behaviors are discontinued. If mockery causes a snnse of shame in the target, hopefully 
Mick 

Swiney 

the person will associate that sense of shame with whatever we don't like about them, and will stop it, get rid of it, or at least hide it from us. 
It's a nice way to discourage unwanted 
I lward a l'vlichael .Jackson joke the behaviors. We used to rag on my little otlwr day and yes. I laughed, but it also brother all the time for not observing madn me think. Why have I never heard personal hygiene or for picking his nose a Mel Gibson joke? I thought. Why in public, and if you asked us about it haw I newr heard a IIarrison rord we probably would have told you that jokP? making fun of him was an educational 
Tlw answer to those questions is obvi­process, and that we were doing him a ous-MPI (;ibson and !Iarrison Ford service by keeping him away from what arP cultural favorites; they seem to we thought were abnormal or inappro­embody all of' tho ideal masculine ehar­priate behaviors. We had his best inter­actnristies on screen. and for that rca­ests at heart, in other words. son we love and admire them. we A side note: he's now the most conser­respPet them and pattern ourselves after vative member of the family, is always them. Mich;wl Jackson, on the other ready to make fun of someone else (to with your friends, and silently count That's an easy one-I say all this 
hand. though he has a measure of popu­"help them out") and is a homophobe to every insult, scornful remark, "dis," or because I know it's wrong. So do you, larity in tho music industry, and though boot. We must have done our job well. other instance of ridicule that you hear and so does everyone. And yet we still he is pPrhaps the wealthiest entertainer So my basic conelusion is this: mock­in the course of conversation. Bring do it; it's like a bad habit that the entire of' all time. embodies none of these char­ery, ridicule, scorn, etc. is a time-hon.. some paper -you'II run out of fingers, I human race has picked up. So how do aetnristirs; hn is not one of the beautiful ored tradition within the human race. guarantee you. we stop it? and rnspnetable people who set the without which the entire strueture or Does this mean that Notre Dame stu­We start at Notre Dame. standard for society. In fact, he's what our humor would fall apart. Making fun dents are the spawn of Satan? No. Are Come on, like you couldn't see it com­you might call a freak; he sets the stan­of others is also an act of generosity, by we evil? Not even. ing. We're the trendsetters in this dare! l'or what not to be. which we selflessly educate the young It simply means that we're good stu­nation, as are all young, intelligent, So I startPd thinking about ridicule in and show them what NOT to do, who dents. Ridicule is an educational tool, as promising, and hard-working people. gPIJPral, and why tho 'f'reaks' of our NOT to be, and how NOT to think. I have said. It teaches us what to avoid We've set our own standard to follow, 
society seem to collPet so much of it. Through ridicule, we welcome everyone in daily discourse, how to express our­and that's why we're here. enjoying the This is what I eamn up with. into the social group by instilling in selves and interact. We've learned well. benefits of a top-notch education and a The fact about ridicule is that vou find them a fear of unconventionalism, to But it also teaches us to attack what wonderful life experience. We're the 
it ev(•rywhcre; most of' us associate it hang over their head and keep them in seems out of place, to do everything in beautiful pnople, the ones who tran­with bad memories from childhood of line with our standards. It's the least our power to discourage behaviors that scend ridicule, the ones everyone else isolatml ineidnnts in which we were we could do. fall under a standard different from our looks to for an idea of where the species 
lauglwd at by our peers. But when you You don't buy it? own. And I'm not talking about person­is headed. It's got to start with us. 
think abuut it, the practice of mocking Me neither. Everything I just said is al hygiene, either; I refer to different Are you ready? It doesn't take much. someone or SOJ11(~thing is far more crap. modes of expression, different view­We just have to remember that everyone prevalent than W(~ would ever imagine: Shame is perhaps the most destructive points and opinions, different attitudes has feelings to be hurt. More than any­
your friends do i.t. your parents do it, emotion any human being can experi­and lifestyles. I refer to everything that thing else, we have to remember how your grandparents do it. Evm·ybody ence, and an eagerness to promote that makes our species complete ... every­much our mockery of others hurts our­
ridicules, from teachers in class to fenling in other people could only be thing which is endangered by the mock­selves. It locks us into a narrow outlook priests in sermons. As a race, a species, described as sadistic. I got made fun of ery of others. on life, it makes us fear our own creativ­we make fun of a whole lot of things. as a kid; so did you, and neither of us Hidicule causes us to inhibit our own ity and individualism. It makes us 
Which is line-in fact, it's more than liked it. individualism; for those of us who can't afraid; it makes us ashamed. finn; as a practice, mockery probably But the sad thing is that ridicule seems hide our differences, our color, our reli­Let's get rid of it-we have more 
has some anthropological, evolutionary to have found quite a comfortable home gion, our sexual orientation, it merely than enough time-honored traditions at or even biological origins. Hidicule here at Notre Dame. I find many of our convinces us that were freaks. It makes Notre Dame. crosses cultural boundaries, and students to be shame-crazed people, so us ashamed. 
throughout the history of our race satire fearful of being made fun of that they Don't get me wrong-I'm not anti­has k(~pt both the enl!~rtainment indus­avoid with a kind of paranoia any humor. I'm only anti-ridicule. Mick Swiney is a junior Arts & Letters try and tho 1wws media in business. actions or attitudes that might conflict But that doesn't mean I don't do it major. His column appears every other 
So if' ridicule has such strong l'ounda­with those o( the group, and are eager myself. Thursday. tions in tlw dnvelopmnnt of our species, to show this faithfulness to society by Why then, you might ask, did I spend The uiews expressed in this column thnn~ must be something good about it. attaeking anyone who isn't so quick to an entire column of The Observer are those ofthe author and not neces­
i\nd on paper, making fun of people conform. assaulting one of my own bad habits? sarily those of The Observer. dons seem like a positive thing. We tend Do you think such a statement untrue Where do I get off telling people to do as to laugh mostly at the ways individual or unfair? Go to lunch. Sit at the table 
I say, and not as I do? 

C
lub kids fresh from Urban 
The patrons came to lifn with e!Tortless Outfitters. Women clad in sleek, sngue from "Dartsudirekt" to "Da Funk," black attire. Men wearing vinyl tlw single responsible for placing the pair at pants. Nine-to-livers. llalf the fun the forefront of elnctronica. lleads bobbed of going to a show is the peoplewatching and hands wern thrown up in tlw air upon and trendspotting. This is just a sample of !waring tlw song's signaturP drum and the crowd that was beginning to form out­synth nwlody. The synrhronirity of a burst side the Metro last Thursday night to see of light with the culmination of each cre­electronica's funkiest purveyors of dance, sendo provided a wonderful visual counter­llaft Punk. part to tho sonic frenzy. Inside. local deejays warmed up the The highlight of til!' show, however, was increasingly growing crowd by spinning the performance of tlw groovn-ladnn house tunes. Amidst the obligatory veil of "Around The World." Though it's hard to smoke and the pulsating drum and bass, imagine, tlw duo madn the disco driven scenesters drank, chatted, and mingled. song even funkier by implementing such And. of course, they danced. There were techniques as isolating the bass linn and dance moves coming from every direction: alternatdy slowing down and spnmling up the main floor, the bar, and even the the tempo. restroom. Yet despite these favorable moments. I The now packed house grew understand­couldn't help but feel unfulfiliPd at tlw ably anxious and restless as a couple of show's dosing. The coupln wrapped things hours passed without any sign of the dar­up after a riwm hour's worth of' music. fail­lings of crossover electronic music. But ing to pnrf'orm "Phoenix" and "lligh before any bottles could be thrown or epi­Fidelity," arguably two of' the most nwlodic thets hurled, the deejay heralded their and easily accessible tunes in their rPpor­
impending arrival by interspersing various Daft Punk selections among his own mix. 
Finally, the Parisian duo took to the stage and went straight to work. Enclosed by their turntables, synthesizers, drum machines, and other equipment, Thomas Bangalter and Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo programmed and mixed with intense concentration. They kicked off the set with the relentlessly throbbing "Musique." Its raw beats and heavy bass lines were complemented by a dizzying array of crisscrossing multicolored lights. 
toire. 
Furthermore, Thomas and Guy-Manuel were barely visible throughout the duration of' the show and departnd without a single "lwllo," "thank you," or "goodbye." Though at times they pack()d tho aural punch that th<iy're known for, at others they seemed to laek the dynamism displayed on tlwir album, Homework. With such dnfieiendes in energy and audience interaction, I might as w<~ll have sat in my room and listened to the CD. 


talk show 


Talk Show 
(out of five stars) 

T 
alk Show is good, but it is exactly what you other 11 tracks. Perhaps the band's most talented would have expected from the Stone mnmbor. Hobert DnLeo, alternatnly plays bass. Temple Pilots. The band was created while acoustic guitar and sings background vocals. STP's lead singer Scott Weiland was deal­Thn song "So Long," written by Hob()rt and ing with drug problems. The other three mem­Coutts, f'catur()s Hobert on xylophone, percussion bers of STP, Eric Kretz and the DeLeo brothers and background vocals. Dean DeLeo adds !'ompe­(Robert and Dean), got togother, wrote some new tent rock guitar riff's ovnr tlw stnady rhythm and songs and employod the assistance of' vocalist has writing credits on three songs including Dave Coutts. Getting beyond tlw stupid name (a music and lyrics on the final track. "Fill tho band that called themselves Stone Temple Pilots Fi()lds." Nothing on this album stands out as par­could probably come up with something cooler ticularly memorablo. Coutts' vocals do not n~ach than "Talk Show" for its only side project) a die­the depths that W1~iland's could and nobert's hard STP fan will find ·12 songs written at the background help only makes you miss Woiland same pace, tonH and inspiration as Tiny more and more. Make no mistake, the album Musie ... Songs from the Vatican Gift Shop. docs groove, but it pales in comparison when held 
The press release accompanying the album her­up to the earlier work by the same musicians. alds the band as having no connection with STP. This is only true in one sense. The songs on this album represent a more inclusive style of writing. by Matthew Loughran Drummer Kretz wrote the music and lyrics and sings background vocals for the first track, "Bing Twice." He also wrote the words to four of the 


puff daddy 

(out of five stars)

No Way Out 
S 
ean "Puffy" Combs, a.k.a. Puff Daddy, is released as a single. It paints a poignant picture"\... everywhere today in the music industry. of life on the streets as well as the controversial His album No Way Out has soared up the atmosphere surrounding the East Coast versus charts with a number of hit singlns, and West Coast rivalry. The croons of Busta Rhymes furthermore, he has helped produce for SWV and are always enjoyable to listen to as wnll. Mariah Carey, as well as the !at<~ Notorious B.I.G. "Friend." featuring young Foxy Brown, also has There are even rumors circulating around the merit and obviously speaks of PutTy's deceased music industry that Puff Daddy will abandon his confidant. hip hop roots for teh asthmatic guitar rock of the In addition to the unreleased songs (shall we Foo Fighters. Interesting combination of Davfl say diamonds in the rough), the album features Grohl and Puff Daddy (tragic loss of friends), but such recent hits as "It's All About the Benjamins." stranger things have happened...! guess. "Can't Nobody Ilold Me Down." and a remake of 
In light of his recent popularity, I decided to lis­the classic Police song "Every Breath You Take," ten to the disc and see what all the hype is about. ''I'll Be Missing You," which reflects on the Sadly, the hype is very misleading. No Way Out is impact of Big E's death. If Sting approved the essentially an ensemble piece in which Puffy sampling, who is to argue if it's a good song or brings together all of his friends and makes an not. album. Some of the music has merit, but for the The problem with Puff Daddy is that he can most part the album serves as an outlet to vent produce, but he just can't rap, which he sadly his paranoia about death and his frustrations tries to do throughout the entire album. lie starts with mortality in the same fashion, but not with out with a good piece of music, like the opening as much as impact, as his mentor and friend, piano sequence in "Been Around the World," but Notorious B.I.G. then tears it apart with his voice and his lyrics. 
"Victory," the second track on the album, fea­turing Big E as well as Busta Hhymes, is probably the best song on the album that has not been by Joey Crawford 
Thursday, September 11, 1997 page 13 




paul weller 


(out of five stars)

Heavy Soul 
A 
eross England, "mod" is back. Over the last few years, Brits of all ages have been 
taking rides on Vespa scooters and rent­
ing copies of The Who's classic rock film "Quadrophenia." 
Enter Paul Weller. His first band, The Jam, gained a considerable following as it helped shape tho original mod-revival oF the late 1970s. As morP bands went new wave in the ensuing years, Weller's second band, The Style Council, had some success in Europe with a few poppy hits, but he soon faded into 80s oblivion. 
Most record buyers didn't seem to notice Weller's first solo effort, Wild Wood (early 1994). However, later that year, Oasis conquered the world (USA excluded) and Noel Gallagher announced that aside from The Beatles, Paul Weller had probably been his chief musical influ­ence. 
As a testament to tho degree which Oasis has IH~lped redefine British popular culture, Gallagher's endorsement immediately vaulted Weller into the upper echelons of London's in-crowd. His 1995 album Stanley Road was not only a musical triumph, but a great commercial success as well. Now refmTed to as the "Godfather of Britpop," many look on him as Neil Young in a Range Rover. 
Heavy Soul keeps Weller's momentum going. It's a rock-soul hybrid which dews not disappoint. Driving guitar and occasional sonic 11ashes make Peacock Suit the boldest track. while Friday Street is downright introspective and uplifting. "I Should Have Been There To Inspire You" has the kind of lyrics which only come with Weller's sage-like view of the world. The linale, "Mermaids," puts it all into perspective and should make even the most rigid among us sing along. 
If you're into Pulp, Kulashaker, or dare I even say Blur, you need this record. 
by Sean King 


Looking back: This week in music history 
The Associated Press 
Snventy years ago: Composer Gene Auston recorded his song "My Blue lleav1~n." It sold 7 million 1:opins. Auston received the lirst gold record. 
Thirty l'ive y11ars ago: The Four Seasons topped the U.S. singles charts for the first limn with tlwir unforgettable hit. "Sherry." 
Thirty years ago: The Doors perf'ornwd "Light My Fire" on "Tlw Ed Sullivan Show." Jim Morrison had promised to changn or omit the line ''Girl, WP couldn't get much higher," tlwn sang it anyway. 
TwPnty years ago: "Diana !loss And The Supremes' 20 Colden Greats" topped the charts in Britain for the first of' spven weeks. 
Five yeirs ago: Barbra Streisand ended her six-year absence from the stage to sing at a fund-raiser in California for Democratic presidential candidate Bill Clinton. 
One year ago: The Bee Gees, the kings of disco, were head­ed to the Rock and Holl Hall of Fame along with another suc­cessful brother group from the 1970s, the Jackson 5. Other inductees included folk singer Joni Mitchell, '60s pop band The Young Hascals and folk­rock groups Buffalo Springfield and Crosby, Stills & Nash, both of which includ­ed Stephen Stills. 
000 
Spoken 10 years ago: 
"I wasn't a falling down drunk. I was always pretty much in control. But there came a time when it was evi­dent I drank too much. It started to show and that both­ered me. I said, 'That's got to go."' -Singer Gordon Lightfoot. 

~00 

Spoken live years ago: 
"It has to be you, just has to be you. You just happen to be the candidate who is long overdue." Barbra Streisand, serenading presi­dential hopeful Bill Clinton at a California fund-raiser. 
-
~~~0 

Spoken one year ago: 
"Sometimes, there are peo­ple that still expect us to play that song. A guy in the front row will be screaming for me to do it. But we don't play it anymore. We gave that song a rest." -Los Lobos guitarist Cesar Hosas, referring to "La Bamba," the group's 1987 hit. 

·" 
-
top 
et You Free (Gem Blandsten) 

2. 
Radiohead-OK Computer (Capitol) 

3. 
Walt Mink-Colossus (Deep Elm) . Lee Scratch Perry-Arkology (Island Jamaica) ·­


5. 
Man ... Or Astroman?-Made From Techetium (Touch and Go) 

6. 
Charlatans UK-Tellin' Stories (MCA) 

7. 
The Cuba Five-ami your world? (Rent To Own) 

8. 
Kenickie-At The Club (Warner Brothers) 

9. 
Primal Scream-Vanishing Point (Reprise) 10. 5ive Style-7" (Sub 


• 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 11, 1997 
• COLLEGE fmHBAU. 

Bulldog pulls double duty
Badger garners honor for defensive efforts 
Associated Press more pleased with his progress and, more importantly, with MADISON, Wis. his productivity." 
Seeing John Favret honored Tarek Saleh, Wisconsin's all­as Big Ten defensive player of time leader in tackles-for-loss the week in only his second and quarterback sacks, served college game came as no sur­as a tutor last season for prise to Wisconsin's coaches, Favret. Saleh was a fourth­or to his former tutor who now round pick of the Carolina plays in the NFL. Panthers in the NFL draft and • 
The redshirt freshman from made the team. Cleveland Heights, Ohio, won "(Favret) is just a good kid, the honor after making four he works hard, he does fwery­sacks and 13 tackles in a 28-thing that you need to do to be 24 win over Boise State last successful," Saleh said. Saturday. ''I just can see some things in 
"It's a great honor and I him that remind me of the way really didn't expect it," Favret I play." said. "I was put in good posi­Favret came out of a highly tions in that game. The guy competitive prep program at (quarterback Nate Sparks) was Cleveland St. Ignatius, but he running around, and I just said Big Ten play has been a made the plays that I had to big adjustment. make." "You can't really prepare for 
"John Favret has really how quick the game is and excelled," Wisconsin coach how fast you have to react to 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press Writer 
ATHENS, Ga. 
The influence of Deion Sanders goes far beyond the NFL and major league baseball. 
Nowadays, players like Georgia running back Patrick Pass see no reason why they can't play baseball in the sum­mer and football in the fall. 
"Why give one of them up when you can succeed at both?" he asks. 
While his teammates spent the past summer relaxing at home and working out for the upcoming football season, Pass was playing for the Florida Marlins rookie team in Melbourne, where he hit .222 with one homer, eight HBis and three stolen bases. 
Once August rolled around, Pass traded his bat and glove for a helmet and shoulder pads, resuming his role as a starter in the Bulldogs backfield. 
"It can get tiring," he said. "You've got spring football (practice), then you have final exams, then you report right to baseball. It just about worn me out, but I wantr-d to sen for myself how I could do in both." 
Pass makes no secrr-t about the player who influenced him to pursue his two-sport dreams. 
"l like Deion a lot," he said. "lie's a sight to watch when he's playing two sports. I fig­ured if he can do both, why can't l do both. The Florida Marlins gave me a chance, and I'm trying to take advantage of it." 
Thr-NCAA allows athletes to accept money for playing one sport while retaining their col­legr, eligibility in another. A number of players have taken advantage of that rule in recent years, including Doug Johnson, who is starting at quarterback for Florida af"tf~r playing base­ball with a minor league affili­ate of the Tampa Bay Devil Hays. Football coaches, need­less to say, would prefer to have their players focus on one. 
"Patrick was instructed not to take thr, extra base," Georgia coach Jim Donnan quipped. "If a fly ball is falling between him and th(l center fielder, let them take it. And under no circum­stances is he to slide." 
On a more serious note, Donnan points out that Pass reported for fall camp in worse physical condition than his teammates -not because he was out of shape, but because baseball requires a different style of conditioning than foot­ball. 
Of course, coaches don't have much leverag~1 at dissuading talented prospects from playing two sports. 
There's always some school that will give the green light if it means getting their name on a letter of intent. 
"I have no problem with what Patrick is doing," Donnan said. 
Barry Alvarez said. "We antic­everything," he said. ipated that he would play "The bottom line here is that "Our goal is to win the hard, we felt like he would get you have go all out on every national championship," said 
Use


Gerardo 
better every week. play. That's what I try to do." Gerardo. "We will do what "He goes 100 mph out there "I just try to hit the corner as continued from page24 ever it takes. We practiced out and he just wears you out. fast as I can and try to get to in the rain, whore other teams 
Obseruer 

He's very consistent, very the quarterback." "She is our leading scorer, but will practice inside. It is a lot of tough. And he just loves to That's the reward for the 6-she is also very uplifting and hard work, but we want to win play. We even had him on our foot-4, 240-pound Favrot­funny. Shn really keeps our and to be the best, and we will 

Classifieds
kickoff team. And I couldn't be the sack. spirits up." do that." 
The Observer accepts cLmifleds every business day from Ha.m. tn :l p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, .~ 14 LaForrurte and from 12 p.m. to .'l p.m. at :l09 H.tggar College Center. 
• Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classitleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 


Classifieds 
- 
 NOTRE DAME  Have Mich St; 6 together; will  
"====N=O=T=IC=E=S~--111,1=F=O=R=R=E=N=T~--11 I"====T=I=C=KE=T=S~--'  I need GA's for MSU, BC, and UMich. Call Nikki @ 634-2367.  FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE  TRADE only for USC or other game; 813-281-2339  
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  WALK TO CAMPUS  232-0058  Local Models Needed for Natl  
BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND  GAs FOR SALE toMS, Ml, BC,  Modeling contest. Win Free  
MINUTES NORTH OF CAM­ $195/PERSON  HOME GAMES.272-6551  &WV 288-3975  CONFIDENTIAL  Trip to New York! 18 to enter!  
PUS HAS OPENINGS FOR  232-2595  TICKET-MART, INC.  No cost or obligation. Call 679­ 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.  -Wanted: ND Football Tickets  4745 for details by Sept. 20.  
LOVELY HISTORIC INN. FULL  QUIET, SAFE NEIGHBOR­ Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or  Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800­ BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND  
ELEGANT BREAKFASTS. 4  HOOD! PRIVATE 3 ROOM  W. Virginia tickets. Call at  255-2850  INDIVIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  WILL TRADE 2ND HAWAII30  
GUEST ROOMS. A/C, CABLE  FURNISHED APARTMENT 5  (609)259-1731 or during the  674-7645.  YARD LINE GA' s FOR 2 USC  
TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.  MILES FROM CAMPUS. NO  day  NEED TWO TICKETS  GA;s 2773097  
$80-$1 00. CALL 616-695-6321  SMOKERS OR PETS. UTILI­ (201)316-4117. Leave mes­ to Michigan state  Buying GA's seasons or indi­ 
TIES PAID BY LANDLORD.  sage.  and  vidual games. Top dollar paid.  Help me! I need 5 GA's or stud  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  257-8521  two tickets to  Confidential service.  tix for B.C. Call Marisa @4­ 
LaFortune Student Center  Looking for GA's to Any & All  Navy.  Call 234-5650.  0833  
Store Hours  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed  ND Games!  Please call 4-2674  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  and Breakfast Inn has space  Will Beat Any Offer!  ask for Karen.  ND  FOOTBALL TICKETS  2 GAs for BC, Navy, WV and  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  available for football/parent  Will Trade Any Home Game for  FOR SALE  one set of married student tick­ 
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  wknds. 5 Rooms with private  LSU. Call634-4872  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  et for sale. Call 273-4372.  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  baths, $70-$90,  For Sale: Two NO/Purdue tix.  EVENING#: 288-2726  
(closed home football Sat.'s) Phone 631-COPY  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,  WANTED: 3 MJCHIGAN STATE  Best offer. 243-1623.  ND TICKETS WANTED  PERSONAL  
1-800-418-9487.  GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  
SAVE THIS AD  CALL 634-4196,  Need tix to Purdue? I have 4.  EVENING #: 288-2726  
Rooms still available @ b-n-b for Mich. St., Navy & W. Virg.  FOR SALE  LEAVE MESSAGE.  Call Grant at 287-9027  NEED A JOB???-Student Activities is accepting applica­ 
games.  Large rooms, 5 min or  Need a pair of LSU tickets.  NEED 2 MICH  FOR  SALE  tions for LaFortune student  
less from campus, airport and  Contemporary lakefront home  Have a pair of USC, Michigan,  TICS  N.D.  G.A.'S  building managers.  Must be  
toll road.  Great for parents, rel­ for sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2  or Stanford tickets to trade.  $$  271-9412.  willing to work nights and  
atives & friends.  Call any time  acre, $795,000. Call Chuck  Call 901-755-4273.  CALL JOHN C  weekends.  Apply in 315  
277-2388  Ruth at 1-888-225-RUTH.  716 848 1268  WANTED N D G A'S  LaFortune.  
Desperate Dad has 2 tickets to  TO ALL HOME GAMES  
[LOST & FOUN_D[  87 Ply Colt, 136K mi, 1 owner, very dependable, $800 OBO.  G.Tech/ BC/ Navy/ W.V. Wants • to TRADE for Mich. St. and  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ND ALUM IS IN NEED OF 2  271 1526  Need formal dates for 13th! Call Steve or AI at x2090  
Call 255-1317 for more del ails.  USC so can bring family with!  GA'S TO USC.  GUARAN­ I need 1 or 2 GAs for the  
LOST: STUDENT TICKET  Call Casey 289-3349  TEED TO BEAT ANY OFFER.  Michigan State game!!!  Drummer looking for band­ 
BOOKLET ON GOD QUAD  1990 Geo Metro XFi 39,000  CALL ASAP 2435887. ASK  Please call Amy  mates. Call Jim at x0677.  
SATURDAY AT 1 PM IN SEC­ miles, good condition, runs  I NEED GA's TO MICH. ST.  FOR MIKE.  at 81 0-355-9140.  
TION 30. SIGNED ILLEGIBLY.  great, $2200.  Air conditioner  CALL JIM AT 634-3985  Fall Glmr Preview 4Pm Rm  
CALL BELINDA ABER AT 4­ (Kenmore) $150.  Washer  SELLING 2 MSU AND 2 USC  I need 8 (eight) that's right 8  299  
2652.  (Kenmore) $100.  I need a GA or student ticket  GA's. TAKING BEST OFFER.  GA's  LeMans ?s Margrette 2845099  
Call x 9039 or 232 4204  for USC so my little brother can  243-2168  to the Mich. St game.  I'll take  
- LOST! Silver Bracelet w/  see his first ND football game.  all  Chile meeting today at 4:30 in  
"sisters" charm. Patti x-1363  Elec. Smith Corona Typewriter  No trades. Have $$$. Call  MARRIED STUDENT TJX 4  offers and as many tickets as I  205 DeBartolo.  Study in beau­ 
w/memory. W/xtra cartridge.  Michelle at 4-0562.  SALE 271-4939  can get ­ X-3530  Ask for  tiful, cosmopolitan Santiago  
Lost Saturday before game:  $95.00. 233-4414  JOE  and enjoy the marvels of South  
Black Fuji SmartDeluxe cam­ NEED 4 MSU GA'S  America-NO's most unique  
era  I need Michigan St. tickets. Will  CALL KATE 243-1089  Need Michigan State Tickets!!  abroad program!  
Near Portable Toilets in  FREE FREE FREE  pay. Call Amanda at 4-3600.  Call Ryan @ (312)938-8984  
Parking  Help! Need 7 MSU GA's, have  If i can make it through 5  
Lot.  If found, please call:  Shelf for the head of bunk  WV/Navy GA's to trade.  FOR SALE -Purdue Tlx  weeks, i'll be like a piece of  
...  Rachel x1467  beds.  Have BC & USC or $$  Call Justin at x1722  matt at  IRON.  
Used in Knott Hall. Very good  To trade for MSU tickets.,  mhorsfie@ bach.helios.nd.edu.  
WANTED  condition. Call 272-3753 after 3:30pm or lv. msg.  Call 243-4743, ask for Meaghan.  Need three Michigan State TIX Call Brent 4-3489  Willing to trade.  The panther is on the prowl and you'd better recognize.  
Soon he will be the most pow­ 
RecSports seeks referees and  NEEDED: 2 MSU Ga's  SALE Married student tix 283­ erful force in the universe, and  
linespeople for the upcoming  USC ALUMNI FAMILY,  call284-5198  0920  you can't stop him. James  
Intramural Soccer season.  FOR SALE: 14 UNOPENED  NEVER BEEN TO USC V. ND  will pay$$$  Dean eat your heart out.  
Sports/officiating background is  ND 1973 CHAMPIONSHIP 7­ GAME, WANTS TO COME  
preferred but not required.  Call  UP BOTTLES. ORIGINAL  BRING A FAMILY OF 6.  ND Alum 2 pay TOP $$ 4 USC  Why would anyone want to do  
Mark Heitkamp at 631-6100 for  CARTONS. $140.00.232-2885  NEEDS FOOTBALL TICKETS.  I need 5 USC tix for family  TIX! 410-737-6115  500 jumping jacks?  Obsessed  
clinic dates.  PLEASE HELP! 213/951-4202.  Will pay $$ X3872  much?  

• 
Thursday, September II, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 15 
The Colleg•~ of Business Adntiniistration 
presents: 
' 
I i 
I 
I 
I



areer 
ayl997 
I 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 9:00AM:-4:00PM 
ATRIUM OF THE CoLLEGE oF BusiNEss AutMINISTRATION IST, 2ND, AND 3RD fLOORS 
Companies Attending: 
36o DEGREE CoMMUNICATioNs DELOITTE AND 'loucHE NoRWEST BANK ABBOTT LABORATORIES E&J GALLO NoR:rHwESTERN MuTUAL LIFE AEROTEK ENRON Novus SERVICES ALLEGIA~CE ENTERPRISE OLDE DISCOUNT ALLSTATE INSURANCE ERNST & YouNG PATTERSON DENTAL SUPPLY AMOCO FAMOUS HARR PEACE CORPS ANDERSEN CONSULTING FIRST CHICAGO Nl)L) PNC BANK ARTHUR ANDERSEN FIRST SouRcE BANK PRICE WATERHUU.SE AT&T (IN) GENERAL ELECTRIC PRINCE CoRPORATION AT&T (NJ) GENERAL MILLS PRUDENTIAL BAIRD & Co. GIBSON & AssocrATES PuLTE HoMES BAIRn/MoRNINGSTAR HEwiTT AssociATEs REVCO HAXTER HEALTHCARE IBM RTC:HARD HARRISON BAILEY BOO SEIDMl\N INFORMATION RESOURCES SEARs RoEBUCK BusiNESS DATA SERVICES INTEL STATE FARM INSURANCE CARGILL KPMl~ PEAT 1\llARWICK 'lARGET CIGNA CoRPORATION LEo BuRNETT THE SuMMJT GRouP CoMERICA BANK M&l DATA SERVICES ·1 owERS PERRIN COOPERS AND LYBRAND MERRILL LYNCH WALGJ:<..EEN.S 
-
CW CosTELLO AND AssociATES MERRILL LYNcH PRIVATE CLIENT WILLIAM BLAIR NAMISNAK AND AssuciArE.s 
Choose what is right for YOU! 
Please pick up a brochure in the ~:allege of Business Administration Complex for a listing of companies, session times, and resume critiques 



page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 11, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

McGwire joins The Babe in the record books with 50th 
First 300 NO and SMC studen day of the tournament. To e however you may purchase {half off the regular price). 
Faculty and Staff can pure e tickets for {20°/ooff the regular price) a the Notre Dame Ticket Office. But hurry, supplies are very limite 

AD'l~f~U~£fl~0)i~¥~ 
ad i das ILady Foot Locker.


~CLASSIC 
By ROB GLOSTER 

Associated Press Writer 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Mark McGwire earned a spot in baseball history. The San Francisco Giants earned one of their biggest wins of the sea­son. 
McGwire joined Babe Ruth as the only players to hit 50 homers in consecutive seasons, but his St. Louis Cardinals lost to the Giants 7-6 Wednesday on Damon Berryhill's RBI sin­gle in the 1Oth inning. 
McGwire led off the third inning with a 446-foot drive, his 16th homer since St. Louis acquired him from Oakland on July 31. McGwire, who hit a major league-leading 52 homers for the Athletics last season, became the first player with back-to-hack 50-homer seasons since Ruth did it in 1927 and 1928. Ruth also accomplished the feat in 1920 and 1921. 
"It's overwhelming any time you link your name with some­one like that," McGwire said. "With all the ups and downs in my career, it's pretty incredi­ble what I've done." 
McGwire, back in the Bay area for the first time since the trade, became the sixth player to reach 50 homers twice, join­ing Ruth -who did it four times -and Jimmie Foxx, Mickey Mantle, Willie Mays 
PEACE CORPS 

INFORMATION SESSION 
Information Seminars Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, October 7 6:30pm 
~ (800) 424-8580 ~www.peacecorps.gov 
and Ralph Kiner. 
McGwire and Ken Griffey Jr., who began the day with 50 homers for the Seattle Mariners, became only the fifth pair of players to hit 50 homers in the same season. This is the first time it's been done in consecutive seasons. 
McGwire and Brady Anderson (50) did it last year. The other pairs were Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle (1961). Kiner and Johnny Mize {1947) and Hank Greenberg and Foxx (1938). 
McGwire was not ready to start thinking seriously about Maris' record of 61 homers in a season. The Cardinals have 17 games left to play. 
"Let's just savor the moment now, and if it happens it hap­pens," he said. 
San Francisco won in the 1Oth after Lance Painter (0-1) walked Barry Bonds leading off. Bonds advanced to third on a pair of groundouts, J.T. Snow was intentionally walked. Berryhill, a pinch hit­ter, followed with a liner over the head of center fielder Ray Lankford. 
Berryhill was mobbed at first base by his teammates as the Giants, who began the day 1 1/2 games behind NL-leading Los Angeles, kept the pressure on the Dodgers -who were to host Atlanta on Wednesday night. 

"That was the win of the year," said Giants manager Dusty Baker, who used 22 players. "I was down to my last man. It's been a while for that to happen, but that's why you have a bigger roster in September." 
Rod Beck (5-3) pitched two scoreless innings of relief for the win. 
Stan Javier's solo homer off Dennis Eckersley with one out in the bottom of the ninth sent the game into extra innings. The Giants also scored a run in the seventh and eighth as they rallied from a 6-3 deficit. 
Eckersley raised his hands over his head in frustration as 


The E.C. Eldridge Band 
(Electric & Alive) with Catman &The All Nighters and Chopped Liverpool 
• Live Blues 
(No Minors Allowed)
• BBQ Chicken 
Mishawaka Brewing Company 
3703 N. Main Street Mishawaka, IN (3 1/2 miles east of the University of Notre Dame) 
Javier's eighth homer of the season sailed just over the fence down the right-field line. 
"I don't think I can hit a ball any harder, but it was so low I didn't think it was going out," said Javier, who also had an RBI single in the seventh. 
McGwire, who homered off Shawn Estes, has six homers in his last six games. lie also homered in the Cardinals' 5-3 win over the Giants on Tuesday night. 
Estes, who after singling in the third kiddingly told first baseman McGwire that he was happy to have made history, said he knew the ball was gone as soon as McGwire connected. 

Live from Chicago 
"I watched it to see how far it would go," Estes said of the longest homer hit in San Francisco this season. 
St. Louis took a 6-3 lead with three runs in the seventh. Royce Clayton had an RBI dou­ble and Gary Gaetti added a two-run single. 
But Javier's RBI single in the bottom of the inning and Jeff Kent's run-scoring single in the eighth pulled the Giants within 6-5. 
Bonds drove in three runs for San Francisco with a two­run homer in the first, his 33rd, and a sacrifice fly in the third. The Giants have won four of five. 
·-~------~~-------!!!!!!!!!~~ 
Thursday, September 11, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Thursday, SepteiDber 11, 1997 .. 
7:30 p.ID. to 9:30 p.ID. The College of Business AdiDinistration AtriuDI 


Meet recruiters from tJlle following companies: 
ALLEGIANCE ALLSTATE INSURANCE ANDERSON CONSULTING ARTHUR ANDERSON AT&T BANK OF AMERICA BAXTER HEALTH CARE CARGILL CIGNA COOPERS & LYBRAND CS FIRST BOSTON DELOITTE AND TOUCHE EQUIS ERNST & YOUNG FIDELITY INVESTMENTS FIRST AMERICAN BANK FIRST CHICAGO NBD FIRST SOURCE BANK FORD GENERAL ELECTRIC GENERAL MILLS HEWITT & ASSOCIATES IBM INTERNATIONAL PAPER KPMG PEAT MARWICK ' LA SALLE NATIONAL BANK LA SALLE PARTNERS LIFE INVESTORS MERRIL LYNCH MORGAN STANLEY NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE OLDE DISCOUNT BROKERS PATTERSON DENTAL SUPPLY PNC BANK PROCTOR & GAMBLE PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES RoBERT W. BAIRD & Co. STATE FARM INSURANCE 
Learn about Summer Internships and Permanent jobs. Bring Your Resume. 
Brought to you by the ND Finance Club Everyon~e Welcome 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 11, 1997 
·-; • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Belle's and Ventura's dingers beat Brew crew, Yankees 
By HOWARD ULMAN surgery on Sept. 13, 1996. ond consecutive strong start and Sele (13-12) was 2-4 with an September 1996 and '97, he is a Associated Press Writer The Brewers loaded the bases the Boston Hnd Sox beat the 8.36 EHA in seven starts before combined 1-4 with a 6.94 EHA. with one out in the ninth off slumping New York Yankees 5-2 he faced the Expos, who got just Wells started impressively, CHICAGO Chuck McElroy, but he got Dave Wednesday night. one hit in seven innings. But giving up four hits through four . 
Albert Belle and Robin Nilsson to ground into a double Sele, who lost 1-0 to Montreal that was a homer by Mike shutout innings. The Hed Sox Ventura each hit solo homers play to earn· his first save of the a week earlier, gave up four hits Lansing.Wade Boggs' fourth took the lead for good with two Wednesday night, leading the season. in 6 2-3 innings against the homer of the year put the runs in the fifth. Chicago White Sox to a 3-1 vic­Cal Eldred (12-13) took the Yankees, who lost for the eighth Yankees ahead 1-0 in the first. It Boston added two runs off tory over the Milwaukee loss as the Brewers fell six time in 11 games. was his 24th homer in five sea­Wells in the top of the seventh Brewers. games behind idle Cleveland in New York still leads Anaheim sons since leaving Boston and on HBI singles by Heggie 
Belle hit his 28th home run in the AL Central, the largest gap by seven games in the wild-card first against the Hed Sox. Jefferson and O'Leary. Tom the second inning and Ventura since Milwaukee trailed by six race but dropped 8 1/2 games David Wells (14-10) lost his Gordon finished with two hit his fifth of the season in the games on July 28. behind first-place Baltimore in lifth straight decision and has a innings of one-hit relief for his fifth inning as the White Sox Eldred gave up three runs on the AL East. 7.71 EHA in that stretch. In fifth. 
won their second straight after six hits over six-plus innings. losing six in a row. 
Jason Bere (4-1 l gave up one Red Sox 5, Yankees 2 run on three hits and six walks over 5 1-3 innings. lle struck BOSTON out four in his fifth start since Aaron Sele broke a three­bf'ing activated following elbow game losing streak with his sec-
American league Standings 

Our Sensational Outlook Centers Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team­
for individuals in the College of Business with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • 05/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle Please join us: 
September 12th, 9am-4pm University of Notre Dame College Of Business Administation Building 
We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401K, profit sharing, and tuition reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning 
services, ATM, softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and 
/.·"'~··.·.·'. . much more. If u_nable to attend, please send resume to: 
. ~ NOVUS Serv1ces, Inc., Human Resources, 
~NOVUS 

· IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, ~SERVICES ~LI.~I · Riverwoods, IL 60015, 
Takinx charRe in a changing world. 

~~ Fax: (847) 405-1388 
~ 
www.novusnet.com 
Equal Opponunuy Empln)c:r MJF/l>N 
East Division 
Baltimore New York Detroit Toronto Boston 
Central Division 
Cleveland Milwaukee Chicago Minnesota Kansas City 
West Division 
Seattle Anaheim Texas Oakland 
w 
89 81 70 70 69 
76 72 70 59 58 
80 75 67 58 
l 
53 61 74 74 75 
64 71 74 84 84 
65 70 78 87 
Pet. 
.627 .570 .486 .486 .479. 
.543 .503 .486 .413 .408 
.552 .517 .462 .400 
GB 
-
8 20 20 21 
-5 1/2 8 181/2 19 
-
5 13 22 

(low the ~\-92 attack~ math. 
I 
I 
i 
When it comes to math, irs sink or sw1m. ~!i!~ equaf1ons Fortunately, we've found away to help you and handy keep your head above water: the Tl-92. pull-down menus, irs as It'll tear through statistics, crunch C9lculus '-"'-"'"""""'~ friend~ as Flipper. To see and rip algebra to shreds unlike any other for yourself why the Tl-92 calculator calculator. Of course, the Tl-92 isn't 
;!~. ~~e:~~nin any·i~/tL
just apiranha of power. •J(~)•· Wrth irs easy-to-read !!.fN**'@I the internet :.$~,-~~ 
.TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
Sffid e-rT1dll to IJ-COieY</I.com or call 1-800-Tr-CARES c.1997 Tl 
See the Tl-92 at: 

Best Buy • Boscov's • Fedco Superstores • Office Depot • OfficeMax • Service Merchandise • Staples • Sun TV • Target • The Wiz 
Thursday~ September 11, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events 
Opening of the School Vein Mass Sunday, September 14 12:30pm Joyce Center 
Basilica and dorm masses are cancelled for this day. 
RCIA 
(Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults) Sunday, September 14 4:00pm CM Badin Office 
Informational Meeting for Candidates 5:00pm CM Badin Office Informational Meeting for Sponsors 
Campus Bible Study (Interfaith Christian bible study) Tuesdays, 7:00pm CM Badin Office 
Graduate Student Bible Study Wednesdays, 8:00pmFOG Apt.17-2C 
Catechist Program Openings are available to teach Religion In Elementary,)unior High and High School , classes. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 about this very popular program. 
Welcome to our gay and lesbian students: Campus Ministry welcomes any gay or les­bian undergraduates, or those discerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrette at 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. AH conversations are completeiy confidentiaL 
Twenty-fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, September 13 
5:00p.m. Rev. William Seetch, C.S.C. 
at Joyce Center: 
Sunday, September 14 
Mass for Opening of School Year: 
12:30 p.m. Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. Scrlpture,Readlngs 1stR~'ading Numbers 21:4-9 2nd"'~Fi~'~d'lng Philippians 2:6-11 Gospel John 3:13-1T 
::: ''i·:.C~·= :·: :: 
. · .. ,.;.,~ 


Towards an Effective Spirit of Inclusion 
What follows are my personal reflections, born of prayer and dis­cussion with others. They are born, too, of my appreciation for the achieve­ments we have attained as a University community in making our campus a more welcoming place for gay and lesbian persons. 
Two Notre Dame students have organized two public presentations on homosexuality, with financial support from the George Strake Foundation and under the patronage of the Jacques Maritain Center. 
I do not think the presentations will be helpful in any meaningful way nor are the topics chosen pertinent to where our community is at this time. The recent "Spirit of Inclusion" statement urges us to seek effective ways of rendering to each member of our community the respect we are all due because we really are brothers and sisters made in God's image. 
The first talk tonight is by Dr. Nicolosi who deals with homosexual men who are "dissatisfied with their sexual orientation" and seek different ways of relating to men with the possibility of pursuing a heterosexual marriage as a possibility in some cases: 
The second presentation on September 18, features a recounting of the experiences of two people who converted from a "gay lifesyle" to a "decision to live in accord with what the presenters feel is a more (the com­parative is used by the organizers) Christian way of life." 
I am unable to question the research of Dr. Nicolosi. I suspect that he will address the lack of certainty as to the causes of homosexuality, including aspects of the "nurture-nature" debate. Surely there are cases of others who do so to conform more closely to the expectations ot' our society and culture, or in an attempt to deny their sexual orientation. 
I have no reason to question the conversion experience the two pre­senters in the second session believe they have experienced. I hope that I would not underestimate the courage of a person who leaves behind any lifestyle not in accord with the Gospel in order to try to live more consis­tently as a follower of Jesus Christ. 
God's grace is sufficient for each of us in the face of any need, Paul assures us, and it is freely showered upon all God's sons and daughters. Few persons will ever understand more deeply or more personally the power of God's grace in one's life than will Saul who became Paul. The irresistible fascination Paul experienced when he encountered Jesus face to 
face is available to each of us in a much more modest way if we but dare to entrust ourselves to the radically transforming power of Jesus Christ which is always at the core of a community of believers. 
My concern is that these two presentations will cause unnecessary pain and a deepened sense of isolation on the part of some of our homosex­ual students. And I suspect they will cause confusion among other mem­bers of our community. 
Homosexual students at Notre Dame live in a challenging setting. But I hope they know or will soon come to be convinced that they are indeed members of a community in which many people support them as individuals and want them to feel welcomed, accepted and loved. Father Malloy's Open Letter emphasized this point clearly, as did the Spirit of Inclusion statement which accompanied his letter. 
Each of us participates in a communitywhich takes seriously the teachings of the Catholic Church. Through the inspired sources of Scripture and tradition, enriched by theological reflection, our community searches for truth we know will lead us to the person Jesus Christ. 
If you are uncertain about your sexual orientation, or if you are gay or lesbian, and you want a safe and caring place to talk about it, please con­tact Campus Ministry. Our first goal will be to assure you that homosexual orientation in and of itself is neither sinful nor morally wrong in any way. Secondly, we will try to provide you with a pastoral support group in a confidential atmosphere where you can speak freely about your own situa­tion and learn from the experiences of other students. If you are a Catholic or a member of a Christian denomination, we will try to help you find ways of living out your faith convictions with integrity. 
You need to discover, as we all must, how to place all that you are and hope to be in the hands of our loving God and in service of all God's holy people. Notre Dame is a place where this can take place if we are determined to make it happen. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 

-
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


~

..11!'!!"""-------~--­
page 20 
Thursday, September 11, 19')7
The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR tEAGUE BASEBAll 
Dante's slam topples Astros 
Associated Press a pinch-homer as Colorado ninth for his 13th save. 
overcame 4-1 and 6-4 deficits Magnante gave up three runs 
DENVEil to win for the 12th time in 14 and three hits. retiring just one 
Dante Bichette hit a grand games. Bichette, who has 24 batter. slam and Larry Walker got his homers, got the fifth grand slam Houston took a 3-0 lead in the 43rd homer, leading the of his career. first on Bagwell's two-run sin­Colorado Hockies over the Houston's Jeff Bagwnll went gle and Sean Berry's RBI dou­Houston Astros 9-7 Wednl~sclay 3-for-5 and drove in three runs, ble. and sending the NL Central tying the franchise record of Ellis Burks hit a run-scoring leaders to their 1Oth loss in 13 120 HBls that he set last sna­single in the bottom half, but games. son. Ricky Gutierrez triplPd in a run 
Houston has maintained its Trailing 6-4, Colorado rallied for a 4-lleac~in the third. division lead primarily because in the sflventh when Pulliam Solo homers by Walker and second-place Pittsburgh is homered off Mike Magnante (3-Castilla off Ramon Garcia pulled slumping, too. The Pirates, who 1), Weiss and Burks singled, the Rockies within a run in the trailed by 3 1/2 games at the John Iludek hit Andres fourth, and Burks tied the score start of the day, had lost sevlm Galarraga with a pitch and with an RBI double in the fifth. of nine going into Wednesday Bichette homered. Gutierrez singled in a run in night's game at Montreal. Curtis Leskanic (3-0) got one the seventh and Curtis Leskanic 
Vinny Castilla hit his 39th out for the win. and Jerry forced in a run by walking Brad homer and Harvey Pulliam had Dipoto struck out the side in the Ausmus with the bases loaded. 

PURDUE'S BREAKFAST CLUB BASH 
Hey ND Fans can you hang with us??? 
1 OUR PREGAME PARTY STARTS AT 7:00AM 1 No COVER! GAMES, CONTEST, PRIZES! 1 POST GAME FOOD SPECIALS, PLUS DANCE 
AND PARTY 'TIL 3:00AM. 
* Come join us for this friendly bash. * 



esc URBAN PLUNGE 
CENTER FOR 
s o c ' L 30 Year Anniversary 
A 
CONCERNS 
Earn one credit while learning in a city ... continue the tradition 
The Urban Plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting••• to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. 

.. 
National League Standings 
East Division 
Atlanta Florida New York Montreal Philadelphia 
Central Division 
Houston Pittsburgh St. Louis Cincinnati Chicago 
West Division 
Los Angeles San Francisco Colorado San Diego 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
90 84 77 72 58  54 59 66 71 83  .625 .587 .538 .503 .411  5 1/2 12 1/2 17 1/2 30 1/2  
73 70 67 65 60  72 75 77 78 85  .503 .483 .465 .455 .414  3 5 1/2 7 13  
81 79 74 68  64 65 72 77  .559 .549 .507 .469  1 1/2 8 13  



*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline: Wednesday, September 17 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
234-5650 
When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 

-
f'all or write for information: Fr. James King, C.S.C. Fr. William Wack, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 http:/ /www.nd.edu/ -vocation 


Thursday, September 11, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• CoU.EGE FOOTBALL 
Iowa ready for Tulsa thi~; time Belles still looking 
By GREG SMITH 
Associated Press Writer 
IOWA CITY. Iowa 

Tulsa visits Kinnick Stadium this weekend but Iowa is trr.ating thn Golden Ilurricanf~ like thny're the nth-ranked Miami Hurricanes. 
Tlw llawkeyes overlookml Tulsa last year, going to Sknlly Stadium with a No. 19 ranking and a 2-0 record but stumbling home with a 27-20 defeat. 
Tlw loss ultimately killed Iowa's chances of landing a Nnw Year's Day bowl bid and denied the team the opportunity to be just one of four teams in school history to have 10 wins. 
"You could tell a little bit that guys maybe wercn't as sin cern as they should have been. But I can guaranten you, there won't be any overconfi­dencn this ynar," said defensive tackle Jon LeFir.ur. 
"We're going into this game just like we go into Ohio State or Michigan. We'll bn ready to go when ganw tinw comes around," he said. 
A ynar ago, Iowa gave only lip service to being ready for the gamn. Thn Golden Hurricane had lost to lowly SMU and a mndiocre Oklahoma State team while the Hawkeyes beat Arizona and intrastate rival Iowa State. 
Iowa arrived on game day instead of l1ying in the night before, which rais!ld the hackles of some Tulsa players. 
llawknye defensive back Kerry Cooks didn't like it, eitlwr. 
".Just the wholn wenkend was bad. We flew down the day of the game. Wn'vc never done any­thing like that," he said. "You could just tell the attitude of the players. Even myself, it was kind of, 'Well, it's Tulsa.' We weren't really prepared for that game. 
"I just remember how much they embarrassed our defense and the team." 
A year later, Iowa is 1-0 alfter a 66-0 victory over Division 1-AA opponent Northern Iowa last Saturday while the Golden Hurricane lost its open­er 34-24 to Cincinnati. 
The Hawkeyes vow not to stumble again against Tulsa. 
"I don't think it's about revenge. We're not going to say we owe them. We're just going to go out and play our game," quarterback Matt Sherman said. "We're very confident in our ability that we can go out there and beat these guys if we do what we do best. 
"But again, they're very confident and they're going to come in here sky high as they should. They have a very good ball club." 
Playing in front of a Big Ten crowd of nearly 70,000 people shouldn't intimidate the Golden Hurricane. It hasn't bothered them yet. 
In 1989, they hung tough in a 30-22 loss ·while in 1993, the I-lawkeyes got a two-point conversion with less than a minute to play to eke out a 26-25 victory in front of the home crowd. 
The key at Tulsa last year was Tulsa quarter­back John Fitzgerald, who completed 22 of 37 passes for 357 yards and a touchdown. 
Tulsa's defense, meanwhile, held Iowa to 14 first downs and just three second half points. In the last quarter, the Golden Hurricane stopped Iowa twice on fourth down inside Tulsa's 10-yard line. 

Come to the Huddle at 8pm 
tonight to sign yourself up. 



4COUITIC C4F a 
from 9pm-12am in the H ddle 
"Featuring La Alianza to111ight" 

Questions??? 

Call # 1-7757 


By LYNETTE MALECKJ and STEPHANIE VILLINSKJ Sports Writers 
With a young team and coach, inexperience is bound to follow, and the Belles (0-4) dis­covered this Tuesday with their fourth loss of the season against Alma College (0-2) by a score of 1-6. 
Alma was the first to score, but the Belles came back 20 minutes into the first half when junior Janice Weiers found senior tri-captain Eileen Newell for her second goal of the sea­son. The Belles gave up two more goals and went into half­time trailing 1-3. 
During the second half the game was played mostly at the Belles' goal. The Belles were forced into a defensive mode to fight off Alma's offensive attack, which was still able to score three more goals. 
The Belles traveled to Alma with only 11 players due to injuries to senior tri-captain Debbie Diemer and junior Monica Cernanec. Sophomore Kate Ryan, freshman Lauren Cangelosi, and sophomore Mary Culley filled in. 
"The team played a good game, but nothing worked well enough. Ryan, Cangelosi, and Culley had inexperience on defense, but still did a good job to make up for the loss of Diemer and Cernanec," second year coach Bob Sharp com­mented. 
Although the team has had a poor showing so far, both the coach and players remain opti­mistic. 
"As long as we stay mentally tough, get our injured players back to full strength, and gain some experience for our· inex­perienced players, we will start winning," Sharp said. 
"The team is still keeping their spirits up, but we are still learning to play together as a team," said Newell. 
According to Sharp the strength of the team is found in the leadership of the three seniors: Diemer, Newell, and Keary Sullivan. The team's shortcomings, however, are their inexperience and poor passing. 
"We need to improve on short passes to enhance our shot opportunities," said junior tri-captain Jo Wagner. 
A tough weekend lies ahead for the Belles with back to back matches at University of Chicago on Saturday and back home against Valparaiso University on Sunday. 
"We are excited to have home field advantage on Sunday because we have spent so much time on the road and our field is the best to play on," said Newell. 
Sharp hopes to gain respect from the Belles' two opponents this weekend and build the team's confidence. 
Sharp pointed out, "The teams' record does not rel1ect the hard work they have put into the season." 





;PRELAW-sOCiETY: 
I MEETING I I September 16, 1997 I I 7:00P.M. I I Room 121 --Law School I 
I I I I I I I I I I 
I Seniors should attend .. Juniors are I L ___~lc.!!.m~! __ .... .J 

~len's Soccer Dame vs Buffalo 
Saturda~~ Sept~ 13th 7:30ptn Allumni Field 
All students, jfaculty and staff free with ID!!! 
for the right formula 
~---~-----­



Hockey 
continued from page 24 
I fPlt good inside. 
In fact, I l'nlt bettnr than I ever had about any fundraising event I had been involved in throughout six ynars of com­munity service through my church and my high school. 
The fact that I was forced to do something -however diffi­cult it was for me -other than meaningless chores or just simply cutting a check made me feel like I accomplished something. 
Seeing Coach Slaggert work­ing the event, his team running in it, and the hockey program coordinating it, I got the feel­ing that there was more to this l'undraiser than the same old 
Thursday, September 11, 1997 
rhetoric of every other fundraiser. 
On the Sunday morning of the first home football week­end of the school year, over 500 people showed up for the "First Annual ND Hockey Power Play Hun/Walk." 
That fact alone, 1wen more so on this campus, should speak volumes about the success of this fundraiser. 
Maybe it is true that when you try to do something your own way, with your own peo­ple, and with your neck on the line, that it will be a true reflection of what that thing really means. 
Maybe in the "Second Annual ND Hockey Power Play Run/Walk" I'll go for the 10­kilometer event. On second thought, I'll stick with the five­kilometer. 


five goals against a team which allowed only two last year at Alumni field."

M.Soccer 
The Irish defense also demonstrated its dominance. Last night's game was the team's third shutout in the
continued from page 24 
four games played this season. Irish goalie, junior Greg 
Velho, only faced three shots from the Valparaiso ond goal in as many games. Turner was also credited attackers. with an assist play. "We focus on an organized defense, looking for a 
A few minutes later, Turner and McKnight combined shutout evnry gamr,," coach Berticnlli commented. "Our to score Notre Dame's second goal. Turner took the defensive strategy is simple: if we don't give up goals, pass from McKnight, maneuvered through two we won't lose." Valparaiso defenders, and nailed a shot from just out­The Irish hope to build on their recent successes side the penalty box past Crusader goalie Aaron Rhame when they return to action on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. as for his first goal of the year. they take on the Buffalo Bulls at Alumni Field. It will be 
Savarino put the Irish up 3-0 halfway through 
the the first ever meeting between the two schools. first half with his first goal of the season from 25 yards out. Aris added his second assist of the game on the play. 
Full menu 
Notre Dame's dominant play carried over into the second half as the team scored two more 

is inside 
goals to put Valparaiso away. Turner scored 'his second goal of the game when he rebounded 

Scholastic
his own shot and put it past Hhame 15 minutes i.nto the half. Bocklage end~1d the scoring for 

back
Notre Dame when he scored his firf't goal of the year on a shot from 20 yards out. 

cover.
"The win on the road was what the team needed," coach Mike Berticelli said. "It gave tl111 team a boost of confidence, especially scoring 




Arthur Anderson 
presents 
A Panel Discussion of Service Lines 

Assurance Services, Tax, Business Consulting, Economic and Financial Consulting, and Computer Risk Management 
Tuesday~ September 16~ 1997 

WHO: All business and economics majors WHERE: Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room WHEN: 7:00 p.m. 
Casual dress Bring Resumes 
Pizza and refreshments to follow presentation... 

Sponsored by the Finance Club and The Accounting Club 

Thursday, September 11, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
·­
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT 
CATBERT: EVIL H.R. DIRECTOR 
E 

I'M ()ElNG DISCRIMINA-0 
..0 

T£.0 AGA.lN5T BECAUSE. :0 Cl> 
E

I lAKE TIM£. OFF FOP. 
't> 
J!!
·;::

FAI"\ILY E.I"\ERGENCIE.S. 
.:..:.f:,:..t:=+=-=-1 11 "King Kong" star 12 What otoscopes examine -=.f~:....j..:=-113 Manhattan 
ingredient 21 Sen. Hatch 22 Fellas 
-=::-+::..+=,,:.+,:,...1 25 Off-road vehicles 26 Actress Wilson 

............................................................................................ Happy Belated Birthday to SUB's own 
Shannan Ball  
at~ Stirliun ~@ 10:30 F.r.iiBy" & SitlrrtBy@ 8/10:30  .. •••  Let's hope that she can read this  

•

········································'··················································· 

I'LL 1-{ANOLE 11-\IS BY 
TELLING YOUR BOSS TI-{AT YOU RATTED HIM 
OUT TO THE DIRECTOR OF HUMAN R£50URCE5. 
61 Prefix with distant 62 Tennis star Novotna 
63 "--Grows in Brooklyn" 
65 History, according to Ford 
66 Shortly 
67 Loose-fitting dresses 
68 Cornerstone 
69 Cleo's lane 
70Carbomb? 
DOWN 
1 Trail 2 Hurly-burlies 3 Dodgers pitcher 
Hid eo 4 Nana's 
husband 5 Makes beloved 650% 7 Physicist's 
concern a Parts of airplane seats 
9 Taste 
10 Mine 
.; 
.: 
.~ 
~ 
,.. 
"' 
~ 
; u.. ~ 
... 
!! 
c 
"....
.. 
0> 
l!lJ 

MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I ll-lOUGHT  THE KEY  WORD  
WE HAD A  IS  FRIENDLY.  
"F~,KILY  YOU'VE BEEN  
FRIENDLY"  /1-.CTlNC,  A.":. lF  
POLICY.  YOU  LOVE.  
)  YOUR FAI"\lLY.  


Puzzle by Trip Payne 
27 Put up 28 Like this: Abbr. 29Consume 31 First name in 
exploration 32 Donor Yale 33 Winter forecast 36 Flatten 39 Solitaire game 41 "--luck!" 44 Petitions 46 Newborn 
49 Hector was one 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
CLI.I:IlRI'IIL~ !lORN ON THIS DA)': \'mcl'nt l11XL', b.1dor.1 Dlltll..ll1, llt•nr~· Kissingt·r. l.oub ( :osst'tl)r. 
Dt·.H Eugl'ni.l· \\'lwn· do I bl'gin? ill'lp. I m.trnl'd ,1 po~~t·~..,i\'l' ( .l!KL'f 17 yt'<lf~ .1go. \Ve h,l\'l' bt•t•n tightinM L'\'L'I' since. IIi~ hirth d.1tt-i~ Julv IY. \9SK; mine b j,1n. :!5, \9()1.\, a\ 7:0\) <l.ITL V\\• .lfL' close It, tlw end \'\'h,tt i~ vnur ,,dvkt• on this? )1Jm..,<' ht•lp. · 
IIL'Iplt•s~ 
DEAR Hlli'LESS: I was expect­ing to find thai your comparison was abusive and totally negative; howev­er, that was not the case. You mav be an Aquarius, but you have a b~tild up of planets in the sign Sagittarius in your chart. Your husband, on the other hand, may be a Cancer, bul only the Sun is placed in that con­stellation. His chart indicates more Air and Fire signs. 'l'our comparison was actually quite nice. The problem is that the pasl four to five years your charts have gone through mega­turmoil. I'm surprised you didn't kill one another wilh the lype of transits you experienced. It would be a shame to split up at this point. However, if too much has gone down, and you just can'l look al one another any more, consider taking a breather, not divorce, in order to re­evaluate your position, your needs, your motives and to give yourselves some time alone. You both need it. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20}: Ladv luck is \\'ith you \Vork quietly behind tht• scenes. Det1\ \\'ith It~gal matters or problems tha L concern· go\'ernment 
agencie~. 

TAURUS !April 21-May 21): Op­
portunitws for romance are e\'ident; 
hO\\'t•,·er, vou must be cautious not to 
rt'\'eal h,o.mtKh in the initi.ll stage5. 
GEMINI (May 22-]une 21}: Deal­
ing \\'ith other pcuple's money or po­
SSt.'SSJons ,.,..jJI he L"onduLi,·e to greatL•r 
Born Today: Ytlll'll bt• a little ahe<1d nf ,·our litnL' this \'c.1r. That doesn't nwan that yuu can't ,Kcomplbh an~:thing. It ju~t lll'-'·11~ )'l)u Ciln slow dm,·n, t~kt:-\\lllr timl' and mah• ~un.• that ('\'crv littil' detail i~ taJ...en can• of bcfon• vou present ylmr intt.•nt1ons. · · 

.. .. ~· .. 



Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
t.•l..,h lin\\. )illl t•lll hdp oldt•r t.11111iy mt•mht'r.., with kgalm,lttt•r.-.. 
CANCER (june 22-]uly 22}: ln­\'l'!->lml'nl opportunitit~ will hl' mon­t•ym.lkt·r~. CL't lllVoln•d \\'Jih ~porb .Ktivilit·~ th.11 \.\,'ill ht'IJ, chi!Jrt·n. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23}: Your honll' t'll\'ironnwnt m,1y be upsl'ltmg todily, hut don't ll'l vour pt·r~lll.1llifl' intcr­tt•rt• with ~·oui productit·,ty .11 work. 
VIRCO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22}: Op­portunitit·~ for lll'W rorn.1nt1c en­cuuntt·r.., will dt•velop ~hrough travel tlr t'ttUGlli\llli'll pursuib. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23}: Avoid nmfront,ltions with relatives. You will ht• a littlt• touchy and should refrain from discussing personill matters. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22}: Your cmger will mount regarding domestic concerns. Difficultieo with family member~ will develop and confrori­tiltions are inevitable if vou don't con­trol your temper. · 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21}: You should try to make timl' to visit friends or relatives who have not bct'n wl'll. You can dear up domestic duties that have bt..'t:'n It'll unfinished. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 20): You will get angry with regards to fi­nanci.ll matters that concern joint ac­counb ~,r contributi<ms that are outra­gt.•ous. Don't spend on friends orchil­dren today. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 18): You Cilll be progressive toda:• if you din.'Ct your energy into mont:-~·-making ven­ture~ and profession!\\ accomplish­mt·nts. However, on the personal lt•vt.•l, problems '''ill pre\·ail. 
PISCES IFeb. 19-March 20}: Edu­cational pursuits will bring you the knowledge necessary to obtain the profcssionill position of your choice. Busine:::-s trip~ will be lucrative. 

• 
.. 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Blue Sky" Oscar winner 6 Derbies 10 Washstand item 14 Emblazon 15 Gillette product 16lnner vision n Lose it 18 Moistened clay 19 Worry 20 Start of a quip 23 It's frequently 72 24 Eastern European 25 Speaker of the quip 30 "Daniel Boone" actor 34 Vichy water 
:I 
3
;:
;: 
35 Long-necked lute 37 Play for time 
38 Tenor in "The Flying Dutchman" 
40 Brazilian seaport 42 I-79's northern terminus 43 Rx items 45 Manila's island 47 Revolutionary nickname 48 Goforth 50 Part 2 of the quip 52 "Camelot" actor Franco 54 Jack of "Barney Miller" 55 End of the quip 

51 Searched for truffles, maybe 53 Muscat native 55 Greenish-blue 56 Cloistresses 57 Chemical cornpound 
58 Glazier's item 59 Coffee 
brewers 60 French bean? 61 Abate 64 Immigrant's 
course: Abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-

SPORTS 
.. 
page 
24 Thursday, September 11, 1997 
• 
Irish cruise in win over Valpo 
Balanced attack paves way in offensive showcase 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sports Writers 
ThP Notre Dame men's soc­cer team, ranked 19th in the Umbro/NSCAA poll, defeated Valparaiso 5-0 on the road last night at Eastgate Field. The win extends the team's unbeaten streak against the Crusaders to a series record of 25-0. 
The Irish have dominated 


this series by outscoring the Crusaders 14-0 in the past thn~e meetings. The win was the second in a row for Notre Dame, who improved its over­all season record to 2-1-1. 
Senior co-captain Ryan Turner scored two goals and added an assist to !Pad the way for the Irish attack. Senior Bill Savarino, junior Ben Bocklage, and freshman Reggie McKnight all added goals for the Irish. 
McKnight, recently votcd Big East player of the week fol­lowing a standout perfor­mance against Providence College, led the attack early. Less than 10 minutes into the 11rst half, McKnight headed in an Andrew Aris cross from the right side to give the Irish a 1­0 lead. It was McKnight's sec-Sophomore Andrew Aris had a key assist on the first goal of the 
see M.SOCCER I page 22 
Irish's 5-0 route of the Crusaders. 
• SOCCER 


Gerardo steps to the forefront 
accolades, the talented player
Junior focused 
from Simi Valley, Calif., is one of the top returners on theon leading Irish Irish squad. When asked to describn herself, Gnrardo saidto championship she was like anybody else, just a regular person. llnr actions 
By ERIK KUSHTO 
on the 11eld speak dil'fernntly. 
Sports Writer 
Monica Gerardo has been a force on the women's soccerTlw goals of the Notre Dame team for the past two years.
women's soccer team and 
Notre Dame's top rdurning
those of junior forward Monica 
goal scorer, Gerardo has
Gerardo are one in the same. 
scored 43 goals in the last two"I just want to play my best years, the most ever in a two­and do what I can. I want to year span at Notre Dame. Ithelp this team win the national 
was Gerardo's goal against
championship." 
third-ranked Portland on
Although she is unconeerned Sunday that gave the Irish a
with personal awards and 

win and preserved their per­fect 4-0 record. 
"Siw definitely steppnd it up against Portland," said sopho­more forward J(~nny lleft. "She scorPd thP gamn-winning goal and had a eoupln of other opportunities in the game." 
"Monica is very talented with the ball and is a quality finish­er," said Irish coach Chris Petrucnlli. "She is a rlutch goal scorer for our team. Off the field, she is a pretty laid back individual, but she lights hard when it is time to play." 
With the graduation of Cindy Daws and Jen Henola, two of Notre Dame's most talented soccer players, Gerardo will play an important role in Notre Dame's success this season. 
"With Cindy and Jen." said Gerardo, "they took over the leadership responsibilities. They were the captains when I was a freshman. We always looked to tlwm to step it up out on the field. With them gone, everybody else needs to step up and make things happen." 
The Irish will need that kind of leadership, with road games this weekend against Pittsburgh and West Virginia before their showdown at home next week against th(' top-ranked North Carolina Tar Heels. 
According to freshman defender Kelly Lindsey, Gerardo has 11lled in well. 
"Monica is a good leader and role model for the younger players," said Lindsey. "She doesn't go out of her way to show off to the coaehes. She works hard. She is a very important part of this team." 
"She is definitely a leader to the forwards," added II eft. 
see GERARDO I page 14 

Ben Bocklage scored his first goal last night against Valparaiso. 
• JOCK STRIP 

Hockey team holds IDeiDorial w-alk/run 
It has become commonplace for a sports team -be it col­lege or professional, men's or 
women's ------­
to John Coppollela undertake SportsWriter numerous 
fundraisers in order to help out its community. Usually a charity or some other faceless entity is named in honor of the event, and a representative or two from that organization will make an appearance. 
It is a trite and old exercise that leaves many of the partic­ipants feeling cheated. Last Sunday, however, the Notre Dame hockey program con­ducted a fundraiser that devi· ated from the status quo, and the success of this fundraiser may encourage other fundraisers to follow suit. 
The Notre Dame hockey pro­gram turned tragedy into tri· umph with the "First Annual ND Hockey Power Play Run/Walk." 
The Notre Dame community lost a friend with the death of Ed Slaggert, brother of assis­tant coach Andy Slaggert, as a result of cancer. 
As a result of the death, the hockey program decided to establish an annual fundraiser to fight cancer, with the pro­ceeds of this event benefiting the Slaggert family, and future proceeds benefiting the American Cancer Society in Ed's memory . 
Not only was this fundraiser personal on the woney-raising side, but it was also personal on the activity side. Coach Slaggert coordinated the activ­ity himself and supervised every aspect of the run until every last runner finished. 
Furthermore, all ND hockey players who were not injured ran in the event, with the freshmen wearing helmets to indicate their class status. It was a different kind of fundraiser with the beneficia· ries and sponsors, the Slaggert family and the ND hockey pro­gram, not only coordinating the event, but actually partic· ipating in the event. 
The event itself was fun, or at least as fun as running can be. There were three types of courses one could undertake, each with its own specific hockey penalty undertones: the two-mile walk (minor), the five-kilometer run (major), and the 10-kilometer run (misconduct). 
The running courses circled around the Notre Dame. cam­pus. with the route circling around both lakes, and was challenging -believe me. However, the challenge of running a successful fundrais­er in order to help fight cancer was done in a creative way and therein was a success. 
Yes, I ran in the event. I opted for the five-kilometer course after being ridiculed for trying to take the two-mile walk option. It was early in the morning and I didn't have my best running stuff on that day, but I managed to finish the race. I finished in a little under 25 minutes; in laymen's terms, I was running at the speed of an overweight sev­entll-grader. However, I fin­ished the race, and once I did, 
see HOCKEY I page 22 


at University ofColorado 
vs. Purdue, 

Invitational, 
• SM C soccer loses to Alma 
September I3, 2:30 EST 

September 12 

see page 21
vs. Buffalo 

Soccer, at U. of Chicago
. t September 13, 7:30 p.m . 
September 13, noon 
• McGwire belts 50th 
at Pittsburgh, 
see page 16

Volleyball, at Ohio N.,
September 12,7:15 p.m. 

September 12, 3:30p.m 







