
Tuesday, March 25, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 112 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
otre Dame Election Retu Classes determine new officers 
Low voter turnout continues to plague elections 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE News Writer 
The tension finally ended last night for this year's off-campus and class officer candidates when election results were announced around 10 p.m. 
The only election requiring f. run-off is for the class of 19cf8

Neville/ Ca_mbell 

positions. The ticket consisting of Beth Nolan, Connie Dougherty, Bob Flannery and Brian McCarthy, receiving the majority of the votes cast, will face off in run-off with the tick­
The Observer/Katie Kroener
et made up of Colin O'Reilly, 

Off-campus and class officer candidates await election results with trepida­
Jon Steele, Catherine Monahan 

tion in the student government office last night. 
and Erik Burns in the elections ficial is we are elected. We are The O'Reilly platform focuseson Wednesday. With 44 per­

going to continue to campaign on senior activities. With a
cent of the votes cast, the Nolan 

ticket had an over the vigorously until elections on variety of senior class trips pro­
edge 

Wednesday." posed and a promise of moreO'Reilly ticket. who re.ceived 20 
percent. With a platform promising class activities, the ticket high­widespread communication, lights involvement.
"We are excited, but we are 

greater alumni relations, and Colin O'Reilly commented onnot taking anything for grant­
focus on campus issues, the the time constraints of the elec­
ed," said Beth Nolan. "I think campaign is not yet over for thewe have a great deal of experi­Nolan ticket. 

ence that should really be bene-see ELECTIONS I page 4 


Baxter urges conversation and religion 
By SARAH CORKREAN Saint Mary's News Editor 
For Father l'vlirhacl Baxter. an invi­tation to say mass in the horne of the pn~sidcnt of El Salvador 10 years ago was an honor of sorts. With soldiers holding guns linrd up outside the prPsidrntial palace while he deliv­rrrd the Palm Sunday homily, Baxter qurstioned what sense of community tlw people of war-torn El Salvador could possibly have. 
As a continuation from last semes­ter's conversation series on commu­
Notre Dame Security, Clay Township Firefighters and local police responded to a fire that engulfed sophomore Jason Hooks' truck last night. 
nity, Baxter, a member of the theol­ogy department at Notre Dame, spoke at Saint Mary's College yester­

Truck ignites en route to SMC
day afternoon. Noting the urgency to define com­By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN truck on fire.
munity in a society where people do 
Assistant News Editor "I was driving along and the fire just came
not share common traditional beliefs up from under my seat," said Hooks. "So Iand practices, Baxter said that "find­
Shortly after 8 p.m. last night a student's pulled over to the side of the road to avoid
ing an understanding of community 
pickup truck caught on fire at the intersec­blocking traffic, jumped out, and tried to pat
is very thin. With so many planned tion of Saint Mary's Drive and U.S. route 31. it out with my hands."
communities such as business, gay 
Jason Hooks, a sophomore at Notre Dame Hooks said that he then tried to jog into
and lesbian, and academic groups, 
who lives in Granger, was driving to Saint the Saint Mary's security office to report the
there is no universally agreed upon 
Mary's when loose wires under his dash­see BAXTER/ page 6 board joined and set the carpeting in his 
see FIRE/ page 4 

Bourgeois denounces use of the 'School of Assassins' 
By DAVID FREDDOSO from Latin America and the violence that has occurred state" have all come to power responsible for a more recent News Writer instructing them in "counter­in South and Central America through violence and have massacre of nearly a thou­insurgency warfare." over the last 30 years. then used their power to sand unarmed men, women, 
Last night, the School of the According to Father Roy Bourgeois said that he could oppress the poor. Among and children, graduated from Americas was unveiled before Bourgeois of the School of the tell that the school was cor­these 10 heads of state to SOA. a crowd of 50. Americas Watch, the SOA is a rupt by its alumni. graduate from SOA, for exam­In addition, just recently, 
An American military train­"School of Assassins." "The Pentagon," he said, ple, is Manuel Noriega. several major newspapers got ing camp, the School of the In the last of six lectures "tells us that 10 'heads of Of the three men responsi­possession of copies of seven Americas is currently located given in celebration of Human state' have graduated from ble for the death of SOA training manuals, some 
in Fort Benning in Columbus, Rights Week, Bourgeois called the school." Archbishop Oscar Romero in of which teach the use of tor-Ga. For over half a century, it for the closure of the SOA, But what they do not men­El Salvador, two were gradu­has been taking in soldiers which he blames for much of tion is that these "heads of ates of SOA. Ten of the 12 see BOURGEOIS/ page 4 






page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 25, 1997 



Play ball! 
Spring has sprung. 
Well, it's trying to, any­way. Spring break is behind us, morning tele­vision news programs balanced eggs last Thursday, and we've had some 50-and 60-degree days here in South 


Bend already. Dan Cichalski 
The only thing left is Viewpoint Editor 
for baseball to begin ­

that final, enduring sign of spring and the 
promise of summer. Former Commissioner 
(remember when there was such a thing?) · 
A. Bartlett Giamatti wrote perhaps the most pleasant description of America's oldest professional sport: 
"It breaks your heart. It is designed to 
break your heart. The game begins in the 
spring, when everything else begins again, 
and it blossoms in the summer, filling the 
afternoons and evenings, and then as soon 
as the chill rains come, it stops, and leaves 
you to face the fall alone." 

But forget professional baseball for anoth­
er week; it begins April 1. Today is a more 
important opener-Notre Dame's regular­
ly-scheduled game against Western 

Michigan (the Irish played a game Thursday 
that was scheduled only the night before). 
In my experience the past two years, attendance at Irish baseball games has been generally pathetic. The majority of the bleachers are filled with local residents, not students. This is good business since the locals pay for their tickets and students get in free, but it's a miserable show of support for a school that speaks so much of pride. It's a conditional pride, applying only to football and -at least this year -only 800 basketball fans. I guess if the games aren't televised nationally, it's not important enough to go. 
What makes this situation really disap­
pointing is that students still complain about 
"nothing to do in South Bend" when spring 
sports like softball, baseball and track draw 
a total of, oh, 82 fans in a weekend. 

Lacrosse does a little better but most of 
those in attendance are high school students 
in their varsity letter jackets. 

Why people feel the need to watch another 
insultingly lame Rikki Lake show rather 
than spending free time in the spring sun­
shine is baffling. If you're going to be sitting 
on your butt, you might as well get out of 
the house to do it. 

My endless babbling about America's 
Game will probably have no influence on 
most of those who read this column. So I'll 
spew out useless but convincing facts. Last 
year, the Irish Nine finished with a 44-18 
record and made the NCAA tournament for 
the fourth time in five years. The point is, 
this team can compete, just like any other 
that wears the blue and gold. 

I don't care what argullJent you try to 
bring against baseball -it's too slow, the 
players are greedy millionaires, it's too 
expensive. Wah. I can counter. Like, if it's 
too slow, you're too impatient and need 
instant satisfaction. And, hey, Irish baseball 
is free. 

So don't try to tell me that there's nothing to do in South Bend. If you'd like to argue with me, I'll be behind home plate this after­noon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Graphics Matthew Loughran Peter Cilella Heather MacKenzie Production 
Sports Belle Bautista Brian Reimhaler Matthew Loughran Viewpoint Heather MacKenzie Eddie Llull Lab Tech Accent Katie Kroener 
• Wm:u.o Ar A GlANCE 

'The English Patient' takes home nine Oscars 
LOS ANGELES 
The romantic war epic "The English Patient" won nine Oscars Monday night, including best picture, director and supporting actress. 
Geoffrey Rush, the mentally dis­turbed concert pianist of "Shine," won best actor and Frances 
McDormand, the pregnant Midwestern cop in "Fargo," was 
Best Picture 
named best actress at the Academy 
"English Patient"
Awards Monday night. 

Anthony Minghella won best direc­tor for "The English Patient," and its co-star, Juliette Binoche, claimed the 
Best Actor 
supporting actress statuette. 

Geoffery Rush
Concluding his thanks, Rush gave 
"Shine"
special tribute to "the unstoppable David Helfgott -you truly are an inspiration." "Shine" told the story of the real-life Helfgott's struggle to overcome a mental breakdown. 
WASHINGTON 
Democratic fund-raisers projected that meetings over coffee with President Clinton would each raise $400,000 from big donors, according to White House records turned over to Congress. 
Ledgers of political events, including coffee klatches, dinners and other appearances by Clinton and Vice President AI Gore, contain projections of how much money party fund-raisers hoped each event would. yield. The ledgers were made available by a congressional source. The spread sheets, turned over to Congress by former White House deputy chief of staff Harold Ickes, show that each coffee klatch was generally expected to raise $400,000. In the first two months of 1996, the ledgers show six coffees hosted by "POTUS" -White House-speak for president of the United States. All but one of the coffees hit their fund-raising target while the fifth yielded $340,000 in donations. Total take: $2.34 mil­lion. "To the degree the public ever believed it, these documents put to rest the fiction that they were anything but fat-cat fund-raising events," said Ellen Miller, head of Public Campaign, a nonpartisan political watchdog group. 
Gator attack victim died of drowning 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
A 3-year-old boy who was snatched by an 11-foot alli­gator died from drowning, a medical examiner said Monday. Adam Trevor Binford vanished Friday afternoon while playing in shallow water on the edge of Lake Ashby, 20 miles northeast of Orlando. His mother, Lorri Binford, said she heard a big splash and Adam disap­peared. A trapper found the 450-pound alligator with the boy inside its jaws the next day, about a mile away. "His face was untouched," said Larry Bass, 33, Adam's uncle and the one called to the water's edge to identify the body. "He looked like he was asleep." An autopsy showed water in his stomach and lungs, said Dr. Ronald Reeves, chief medical examiner for Volusia County. The child's left arm was in the gator's stomach and his lower torso and legs were covered with bites. "I think he died very quickly, quicker than an ordinary drowning death," Reeves said. Adam's death is the eighth fatal alligator attack since the state began keeping records in 1948. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 25.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
FRONTS: 
""T""""'Ir ......_._ ............... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CO 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 

The top acting honors won by others prevented a sweep by "The English Patient," a burn victim's tortured rec­ollections of his misdeeds in time of war. But it was enough to put it among film an10ng Hollywood's elite. The all­time winner was 1959's "Ben-Hur" with 11 Oscars. 
''I'm so surprised," said Binoche, who, like many, thought the statuette would go to Lauren Bacall. "I didn't prepare anything. I thought Lauren was going to get it. And I think she deserves it." 
Binoche portrayed the compassionate Canadian nurse in "The English Patient." 
Cuba Gooding Jr., the football star who repeatedly asks his faltering agent to "Show me the money!" in "Jerry Maguire," won the supporting actor Oscar. 
Teens questioned in cult suicides 
ST. CASIMIR, Quebec 
Three drugged teen-agers found near the scene of a doomsday cult group suicide rejected an offer to take part in the deadly ritual, police said Monday. Five adult members of the Order of the Solar Temple, including the teen-agers' parents and grandmother, died Saturday in a house fire in St. Casimir, about 50 miles southwest of Quebec City. Four of the bodies were found in a bed, arranged in the shape of a cross. Firefighters found two boys, ages 13 and 16, and a 14-year-old girl in a dazed state in a nearby workshop. Quebec Provincial Police spokesman Real Ouellet said the teen-agers woke up Friday morning to discover their parents and other cult members had placed propane tanks, electric hot plates and fire-starters on the main floor of the two-story house. They realized what was happening and expressed their disapproval. The suicide was delayed until Saturday, when the youths rejected an opportunity to join the death pact, he said. Fanie Queze-Goupillot, 14, and he·r brothers Tom, 13, and Julien, 16, agreed just before the fire to take sleeping pills their parents gave them. "But it doesn't mean people have dropped out ­we've just seen the proof of that." Police contacted authorities in France and Switzerland after the weekend fire to try to prevent any similar mass suicides. 
Three killed at McDonald's shootout 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Three employees were killed during an apparent rob­bery attempt at a McDonald's restaurant, about two miles from another fast-food restaurant where two work­ers were killed last month. A fourth employee was in crit­ical condition Monday with stab wounds. Police received a 911 call just after midnight from the restaurant in sub­urban Hermitage, but the line went dead. An officer sent to investigate looked through a window and saw a trail of blood. "Because all of the doors to the restaurant were locked, the officer used her baton to smash out the glass in one of the doors and entered the building," said Don Aaron, a Metro Police spokesman. Officer Tracy Holmes found three workers shot and lying close to one another in the rear of the restaurant. The stabbing victim was lying near the telephone. Police said money appeared to have been taken from the restaurant but would not give details. No arrests had been made. said Jodi Hudson, a regional marketing manager for McDonald's. 
Atlanta 69 47 Jackson 78 45 Omaha 49 39 Bismarck 42 32 Las Vegas82 54 Providence44 22 Buffalo 38 17 Louisville 62 34 San Diego66 58 Concord 36 Memphis 77 50 Seattle 54 36 El Paso 75 61 Norfolk 46 37 Tulsa 80 55 
Melanie Waters 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 





The e 

ishH Connection 
Bringing the future to education 
Bryan Meyer coordinator 
(219) 273-2812 
or E-Mail to: lrish@ap.observer.nd.edu 
lrish@ap.observer.nd.edu 



page 4 

Election 
continued from page 1 
tion. "Getting the word out in a limited time was difficult, but we are going to continue to campaign," he said. 
Receiving 666 of the 1055 votes cast within the class of 1999. the ticket consisting of Frank Law, Meg Samson, Emily Miner, and Jeff Winko was the election winner. With a platform promising open meetings in dorm basements and class support of Junior athletes. the Law ticket also plans to increase student involvement in class activities and events. 
"This was a really short campaign and we worked really hard to get our plat­form out," said Samson. junior class vice president­elect. 
"We are excited about this great opportunity," added Law. 
For the class of 2000, the ticket comprised of Walker Candelario, Andrea Selak, Laurie Strotman, and Joe Kippels was the overwhelming winner, with 63 percent of the vote. 
"We are very excited about the opportunity we are going to have," said Walker Candelario. "We put a lot of time and effort into the cam­paign. We are glad it paid off." 
The Candelario ticket hopes to make more student involve­ment a major theme in the coming year. With more pub­licity and open meetings, they hope to generate exposure and participation within the upcoming sophomore class. 
For off-campus co-presi-


RecYcle The Observer 
TfACH EIWLJSH in 
EASTERN EUROPE 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic conversational Enalish in Eastern 
Europe? Our matenals profile many 
rewarding teaching opportunities with 
great benefits. For mformation, call: 
(206) 971-3680 Ext. K55845 

w~ •re • reH•rcl'l" pub!ilhinS cv. 
'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 

NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search 
in National Parl<s, Forests, and Wildlife 
Preserves. 
Learn from the #1 Source that uncovers hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefits 



The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 25, 1997 
dent. the unopposed was widely circulating a petition in support of Neville/Campell ticket the bill.



Bourgeois
received 258 votes for the This marks the third time such a bill has ticket and 61 votes against. continued from page 1 been presented. Similar bills have been 
In the race for off-campus rejected, but as more information about SOA senator, Bob Stallman won, ture and execution. has been revealed, more and more support has receiving 192 of the 317 votes "We know more than enough about this been found in Congress to close it. cast. school to call for its closure," he said. "Can we do it?" Bourgeois asked. "We think 
"I want to make sure the Bourgeois himself has been arrested twice for so. We know so... it will close. I have no off-campus voice is heard," trespassing on the grounds of Fort Benning doubtaboutthat." · Stallman commented. while protesting. Bourgeois also took a moment to show how "Oftentimes they seem to be "This school is our way of keeping Latin fundamental this issue really is by defending left out of student govern­America's military entrenched. Shutting down his involvement in the SOA Watch. ment. I want to make sure the school could help bring about peace and "People often say that priests should not be our rights and interests are justice, and save lives,"Bourgeois asserted. involved in politics. But we're not talking preserved." Two weeks ago, a bill to close the SOA was about politics here. We're talking about moral 
Jen Dovidio, the judicial introduced by congressman Joe Kennedy of issues. We're talking about people being council president, stated that Mass. This bill will soon come up for a vote in killed." the turnouts for these elec­the U.S. House of Representatives, and accord­Bourgeois called on the students and faculty tions were comparable to this ing to Bourgeois, now is the time to aei and of Notre Dame to share in the task of human year's student body president show support for the bill. rights activism. But, "how important it is to elections as well as class elec­"Letters to your members of Congress make integrate our activism with that solitude, with tions in years past. a difference this time," he said, adding that he time for prayer?" 
"The elections went really smoothly," she said. "The were loose because his car Hummell of Clay Township
candidates and the hall judi­stereo and amplifier had been Fire Department who arrived

Fire

cial boards were really co­
stolen on Sunday. "A couple of first at the scene. "This area is She noted that a central continued from page 1 days ago. someone broke into really a toss-up, it is really my car," Hooks said. "I left the Portage Township, but we get 
operative." 
concern on campus is the rel­fire. "Four cars passed me by wires alone so that the insur­all our calls through countyatively low voter turnout. 
on the way," he said. "I didn't ance company could take a 911."
"Ideally there would be 
even ask for a ride, I just look at it." By 9 p.m. the Firemore access to the polls, but asked that they get a hold of "The wires were left under Department had extinguishedit would be really hard to con­someone. But one girl even the seat and not protected. By the blaze, and what remained
trol the elections if we han­rolled up her window and driving around, they probably of Hooks' truck was towed
dled the voting in another 
locked her doors. Makes you connected with the springs of away by the nearby Amocoway," Dovidio said. "We cur­
feel good to be a student here." the seat and set the carpet on station.
rently have the best system in 
The wires in Hooks' truck the fire." said Lieutenant Jim
light of our resources." 
I D E G H T 
(?MPUS 
-
MINISTRY 

The Donald and Marilyn Keough Center for Irish Studies is delighted to announce its courses for Fall, 1997 
COIG 101:  Beginning Irish I  MWF 9:35-10:25  Peter McQuillan  
COIG 103:  lntennediatc Irish  MWF 10:40-11:30  Peter McQuillan  
ENGL372A:  Literature in a Divided Ireland  MWF 12:50-1:40  Kathleen Hohenleitner  
ENGL470G:  Irish and Scottish Literature: 1782-1820  MW 8:00-9:15 P.M.  John Waters  
ENGL471C:  Politics & the Revival: Irish Lit. 1890-1930  MW 3:000-4:15  Seamus Deane  
ENGL478C:  Beckett and Irish Drama  TH 2:00-3:15  James Robinson  
ENGL 559:  Burke and the Idea of Revolution, 1790-1797  T 7:30-10:00 P.M.  Seamus Deane  
GOVT451:  Northern Ireland: I!istorical Roots  MW 11:45-1:00  Margaret O'Callaghan  
GOVT452:  Women in Politics  MW 4:30-5:45  Margaret O'Callaghan  
HIST 235:  Irish American Experience  MW 11:45-12:35  Jay Dolan  
HIST 326:  Irish History I  MWF 9:35-10:25  Jim Smyth  
HIST 333/333A  British History, 1660-1832  MWF 1:55-2:45  Jim Smyth  

(400-level and 500-level ENGL courses are "by permission" for non-majors; History 235 is for sophomores only) 
For information about the Irish Studies Concentration please contact Department of English (1-7226) 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
or visit the Undergraduate Studies Office (1-8636) 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Tuesday, March 25, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Racial attack injures Chicago boy 
By HILLARY CHURA Stateway Gardens complex many of them white -helped Associated Press Writer across the interstate highway police track down the suspects. 
that separates a row of mostly Frank Caruso, 18, Victor 
CHICAGO black housing projects from the Jasas, 17, and Michael 
Three white teen-agers have rest of the city. Kwidzinski, 19, were all been accused of pulling a 13-Officers said the three teens released on bond on charges of year-old black boy off his bicy­pulled Lenard from his bike attempted murder, aggravated cle, beating him unconscious after a game of basketball, battery and a hate crime. and then bragging to their yelling racial slurs as they Sgt. Marshall Andrews said friends they had taken care of slammed his head into a build­the suspects, using a racial epi­blacks in the neighborhood. ing, kicked him and left him thet, "bragged to their friends 
Lenard Clark, found in an bleeding. that they had taken care" of alley Friday night near the "He's 13, and they left him the blacks in the neighborhood. Chicago White Sox's Comiskey lying in the street," said the None of the suspects had Park, remained hospitalized child's father, who did not give criminal records and two ­Monday in a comatose state his name. "He was riding his Caruso and Jasas -are stu­with massive head injuries. bike and wasn't bothering any­dents at De La Salle Institute, a 
Police· said race was the only body. It was a senseless act Catholic school that graduated motive for the attack in the that should not have hap­Mayor Richard Daley and other mostly white Bridgeport neigh­pened." prominent politicians from the borhood. Lenard is from the Neighborhood residents -neighborhood. 
ALL INTERESTED MEN 
BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS IS LOOKING FOR POSITIVE ROLE MODELS 
COME AND JOIN US FOR AN INFORMATION SESSION AND LEARN HOW YOU CAN BECOME A MENTOR! WHERE: O'NEILL HALL (FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE) WHEN: TONIGHT, MARCH 25, 1997 
TIME: 6:00-7:00P.M. 
FOOD WILL BE PROVIDED PIZZA AND POP DON'T MISS THIS GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO HELP OUT A 
LITTLE BROTHER AND BE A POSITIVE INFLUENCE 
~ ~OBSERV 






$QBS£f?l!£ 
is now accepting applications for: 
DJ~~o~o~wo ~@owo [M)@(f~ 0~ ~~ml?O~ ~~oOml?. 
No experience required. If interested, contact Mike Day at 1-4543 or stop by 314 La Fortune. 
appy 20th Britta! 
Tuesday, March 25, 1997
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 

The Observer/Kim Michalik Father Michael Baxter emphasizes the need for com­munication in a Christian communities. 

Baxter 
continued from page 1 
definition of community." 
With individuals focused on spe­cific groups that serve their par­ticular interests, Baxter general­ized that fact that people are less willing to talk specifically about Christian community and tradi­tions. 
In~icating that people seek com­munities when they experience genuine and deep longings to identify with others, Baxter said that people seek to engage in life in a mutual dwelling. Conceiving an image of themselves while including others, individuals then share identities when they enter 


into communities. 

In questioning whether a Christian community is possible, the United States and Tanzania, a poor but patriarchal social system. Baxter noted that he has no defi-"Many times I have a better apprecia­Africa. ambitious nation of 28 Here the women were 
Today she was explor­ing both tragedy and tri­umph in Arusha, Tanzania, where an inter­national tribunal is look­ing into crimes committed against women during the 1994 ethnic slaughter in Rwanda -and where 25 school girls are celebrat­ing their conquest of Africa's highest mountain. 
The girls, all students at the WeruWeru Secondary School, scaled Mount Kilimanjaro with virtually nothing but the desire to reach its peak. 
During her visit to the international criminal tri­bunal for Rwanda, Mrs. Clinton was taking part in a discussion of sex crimes and taping a radio address on the issue to be broadcast in Rwanda. 
million people that is rich in natural resources ­but whose people have a life expectancy of only 44 years. 
Mrs. Clinton's visit drew throngs of curious onlook­ers along the road from Tanzania's airport into Dar es Salaam, the nation's center of govern­ment and industry. 
"You will find our peo­ple extremely good­natured," President Benjamin Mkapa told the first lady when she paid him a courtesy call. 
The overarching theme of Mrs. Clinton's two­week journey to Africa has been to point out some of the continent's lesser-known qualities in hopes of broadening Americans' knowledge not as forceful, although they described similar problems -a need for better reproductive health care, a lack of education and jobs and a sense of helplessness in the face of sexual abuse. · 
"They do not know where to go. They do not know what to do," said Mwanaidi Majaar, an attorney. "Even those who do know where to go or what to do, they do not have the means." 
Mrs. Clinton said while women in the United · States are not as dramati­cally restricted by laws or social custom, they still confront "cultural. psy­chological and social obstacles" that reduce their confidence in their abilities. 

Learn to do all of these stunts! 
MEET GREAT PEOPLE TRAVEL ENJOY CAMPUS SPORTS UP CLOSE 
-


CDEERLEADING & LEPRECDAUCDAUN CLINIC SCHEDULE 
JOYCE CENTER~ GYM 4~ 5:30PM MARCH 25~ 26 APRIL I~ 2~ 3 
Attention: Leprechaun Applicant interviews have been changed to April 4th at 5:30pm in the Business Office Conference Room (2nd 0. Joyce Center) 
Enter at Gate 3 of the Joyce Center and come up the steps to Gym 4. Please see Jo Mintan if you did not receive your clearance forms. Any questions? Call Jo @ 1-9126. 
Tuesday, March 25, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page? 

Nation's TB cases hit historic low 
.--------------------,reason is that federal
By MALCOLM RITTER 
Associated Press Writer 
Tuberculosis in the u.s. 
funding aimed specifical­
1996 rates per 100,000 population 
NEW YORK The number of new 

0.0-3.5 WI 3.6-8.7 II Over 8.7 
tuberculosis cases in the . United States dropped 
last year to the lowest 
level since record-keep­
ing began in the 1950s, 
the federal government 
announced Monday. 
It was the fourth 
straight year of decline, 
suggesting the nation is 
recovering from a rise in 
TB from the mid-80s to 
1992, officials said. 
"We're on the right 
track toward the elimi­
nation of tuberculosis in 
this country," said Dr. 
Ken Castro of the federal 
Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. 
"We now have the rare 
opportunity to eliminate 
tuberculosis in the 
United States." 
60 50 40 
30 ...20 
10 
0 


However, he and others at a New York news conference cautioned against relaxing the fight against the disease, saying that's what made TB surge in the 1980s after a long decline. 
Castro noted that 20 states and the District of Columbia showed no reduction or even had increases from 1995 to 1996, and that sporadic outbreaks of drug-resistant TB continue to be reported. 
Last year's nationwide count of new TB cases was 21,327, down nearly 7 percent from 1995. That's the fewest cases recorded by CDC since it started national surveillance in 1953. Over the same period, the total population has almost doubled. 
Officials credited programs that seek out peo­ple with infectious tuberculosis, diagnose them and make sure the patients take their full course of therapy. To be cured, a TB patient must take drugs for six months or longer, even after symptoms are gone. 
The TB case total in 1996 was about where it would have been a decade earlier if the TB resurgence hadn't interrupted years of decline, Castro said. 
From 1985 to 1992, TB cases rose almost 20 percent, said Dr. Charles Felton, speaking on behalf of the American Lung Association. The ly at TB control had been replaced with gen­eral public health block grants to states, which led many states to cut back their anti-TB efforts, Felton said. 
Congress restored much of the anti-TB money by 1992, he said. 
"If we do not continue to support TB c-ontrol efforts, we will face an inevitable rise in tuber­culosis cases once again," Felton said. "And the next time, the fight against TB will be much more costly." 
Among the areas reporting TB increases or no change in 1996 were the District of Columbia, up 36 per­cent, and Oregon, up 22 
AP percent, Castro said. He said it would take 
further study to determine why they and 19 other states bucked the nationwide trend. Many are probably still rebuilding their anti-TB pro­grams, he said. And some may simply be getting better at detecting the disease, he said. 
Castro also noted that an increasing propor­tion of this nation's cases is being found in peo­ple born outside the country. They accounted for 37 percent of cases in 1996, up from 22 per­cent a decade before, and two-thirds of them were born in Mexico, the Philippines or Vietnam, he said. 
Part of that trend is due to an influx of immi­grants, he said. Many people diagnosed with TB probably entered the country with harmless, latent infections of TB germs, Castro said. These infections can turn active after years of dormancy. 
The best response is to support anti-TB efforts in other countries, he said. 
The worldwide spread of TB has leveled off for the first time in decades, the World Health Organization announced last week. 
WHO estimated that 2 billion people, or a third of the world's population, are infected with TB germs. 
About 10 percent of people infected will even­tually become sick. 
• CHINA 


Trade agreement opens Gore visit 
ByJOHN KING Associ;ued Press Writer 
BEIJING 
With Vice President AI Gore on hand to celebrate, China signed lucrative deals Tuesday with Boeing and General Motors and agreed to allow the United States to maintain its Hong Kong consulate when the colony reverts to Chinese rule. 
In an agree­ment worth $ 6 8 5 million 
t 0 
Seattle­based Boeing Corp., China's civil avi­ation authority arranged to purchase five of the aerospace giant's 777-200 series passen­ger jets. 
And General Motors Corp. said it was launching a $1.3 billion joint venture with a Chinese automaker to manu­facture 100,000 Buick Regal and Century sedans a year in China. 
Clinton administration offi­cials traveling with Gore hailed the agreements as evi­dence that China was becom­ing a more reliable partner ­and as proof that the policy of engagem~nt was bearing fruit. 
Last spring, in a blow to Boeing, China ordered $1.5 billion in planes from Airbus Industrie of Europe, delayed a $4 billion aircraft deal with Boeing and other companies and chose a consortium led by British Aerospace and Aerospatiale of France as partners to build a 100-seat jetliner. 
The trade announcements came as Gore opened two days of talks with China's leaders. It marked the high­est-level U.S. visit in eight years -since then-President George Bush was here four months before the 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square. 
Premier Li Peng was attend­

Just inside the Great Hall of the People on the edge of Tiananmen Square, Li greeted Gore with a handshake and they stood stiffly on a platform while a military band played the Chinese and U.S. national anthems. Two young school children presented Gore and his wife, Tipper, with bou­quets of flowers. 
Li said he expects Gore's 
visit to enhance "the friendly relations and cooperation" between China and the United States. 
"The improvement of our relations serves the interests of both peoples," he said. 
Gore's agenda was crowded with areas of friction -dis­putes over human rights and 
U.S. access to Chinese mar­kets, and American displea­sure with China's sales of mis­sile technology and weapons to nations the United States considers unfriendly. 
"The nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a crucial goal of the United States," Gore told reporters after a meeting with Li. 
But he said his overriding mission was to demonstrate the U.S.-Chinese relationship was maturing to a level of understanding that would allow cordial daily relations despite disagreements. 
To make his case that it was time to take the relationship to a new level, Gore cited a Chinese poem from the Tang Dynasty, which ended 1,100 years ago: 
"The sun beyond the moun­tain glows, the Yellow River seaward flows, but if you desire a grander sight, then you must scale a greater height." 
Gore also sought China's help on two fronts: in convinc­
ing the signing ceremonies ing North Korea to join South with Gore, and the two were Korea in formal peace talks, meeting throughout the day. and in working to lower emis­On Wednesday, Gore was sions of so-called greenhouse meeting with President Jiang gases even as China relies on 
The Center for Social Concerns is 
Sponsoring a series of four seminars this 
Zemin to provide a framework coal to meet energy needs for Jiang's state visit to soaring to match economic 
Washington this fall. growth.
semester focusing on Leadership. Anyone 
interested in developing leadership skills is 

welcome. 






Santiago, Chile 
Seminar III 


Information Meeting
Ethics in Leadership Wednesday, March 26 


With 
COBA 162 


Professor Silvia Rojas-Anadon
6-8 p.m. Professor Jim Davis ofManagement 
Tuesday March 25, 1997

Notre Dame 
4:30 P.M. 

Please call 63 1-53 19 to register 

Room 20 I O'Shaughnessy 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, March 25, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Ediwr-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurlev News Editor ........................ .'... Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor ................................... Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Ediwr... . ............... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Nlen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect rhe policies ofthe administration of either institurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediror, Accent Ediror, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside CgJumns present the views ofthe authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-454 I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  63I-747I  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General lnformarion  631-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• AND IN THIS CORNER ... 

'Star Wars': In pursuit of the hero within 
After having been delayed a week past its initial re-release date, "Return of the Jedi," the third and final installment of the "Star Wars" trilogy, hit the movie theatres at the Ides of March. Although "Star Wars" itself drew nation-wide sell­out crowds the first weekend of its re­release, "The Empire Strikes Back" and "Return of the Jedi" drew successively fewer movie-goers. Generally consid­ered the weakest of the three in terms of both character and plot, the third movie in particular educes complaints 
Matt Apple 

about the renouncement of the dark side by Darth Vader and the chaotic antics of the bumbling, jangling, primi­tive Ewoks. 
Perhaps more audiences feel attracted to the first movie because of its straight­forward plot and patent heroic image. In "Star Wars," the men in black have their way for a while, a mentor passes his wisdom on, and the clash of clear­cut good guys and bad guys results in a decisive victory for the young hero. Darth Vader in the first movie has no relation to Luke Skywalker; he is merely another bad guy in need of fighting. The only major female character is a princess, a surpisingly laconic figure for having watched the wanton obliteration of her entire planet. Leia shows some resourcefulness during her rescue but afterward does not get into fighter craft with the men, instead remaining behind as support staff as befits her sta­tion. Guilt overcomes pride in Han Solo, who claims he only flies solo, and the selfish swashbuckler turns out to be not such a bad guy after all as he decides he needs a cause, besides himself, in which to believe. • 
But when the "great enemy" reveals himself as the hero's father in "The Empire Strikes Back," things become complicated. The movie raises the spec­tre of generational conflict to add to the previous dualisms of man against machine, mysticism against pragma­tism: the hero must not simply battle "evil," he also has to battle the father he never knew and did not have to satisfy or to emulate while growing up as a child. Over the course of the last two movies, Luke must undergo the stages of denial, anger, resentment, hopeful­ness and acceptance as he battles for the souls of his father and his own -a battle which takes precedence over the surface battles of good versus evil. 
In this light, what is the true conflict in the "Star Wars" trilogy? Light vs. dark, "good" vs. "evil," harsh artificial black-and-white order vs. joyous brown­and-green natural chaos? Or is the con­flict less concerned with the external world and more with the internal? 
In the first movie, Luke is thrust into the role of hero by circumstance, by necessity, and by what some call fate, and he finds that this role suits him well. In the second, he tries too hard to become that which he is not ready to be and, in paying the price, learns from his mistakes but becomes tainted by machines and loses his innocence. And in the third movie, Luke confronts not only the older generation which insists its descendants must follow in its hal­lowed footsteps, but he also must face the possibility of the darkness of fear and desire within himself drowning out his will to be an individual. Though he masters his own anger, even the brief eruption of these self-destructive impulses allows Luke to recognize this part of himself and to accept it, fully integrating his light and dark halves into the enlightened sense of I. And yet, he wants his father to survive. He refus­es to abandon Vader to the dark, even though he knows he has come too late and has already lost the father he never knew. 

What is the audience to make of all this? I don't think it is too far fetched to see an extended meaning embedded within the trilogy. The story implores us to undergo ourselves the challenges of Awakening, Trial and Triumph. It is a story which demands personal interpre­tation a_nd application, as all good sto­ries do, rather than a simple dismissal with a wave of the hand as we turn off our temporary suspension of disbelief once we re-enter the "real" world out­side the movie theatre. 
"Star Wars" is, of course, a highly ide­alized trilogy of movies, which only makes it all the more appealing to the private imagination and sense of self. Everyone at some point has dreamed of being a hero, a princess, a warrior, a wizard or a savior. During the hour-long series of televised interviews of "The Making of Star Wars," to a person each of the actors and directors professing the influence of George Lucas's vision described the movie as somehow larger than life. It is this sense of overwhelm­ing power and grandeur that gave "Star Wars" the cultural impact it continues to wield two dr-cades after it first hit the big screen. Its universal appeal lies in its ability for subjective incorporation, the personal recognition of aspects of the individual as it relates to society and the willingness and the need to strive for the ideals which make living worth­while. 
The "Star Wars" trilogy is not so much about the hackneyed adventure tales of "good" vs. "evil" as it is about the vindi­cation of the construction of a healthy personality and of the triumph of the will. In these space operatic movies, we can see the triumph of the divided self over its own doubts, fears, worries and insecurities: the successful overcoming of the human sou.!. 
Matthew Apple is a graduate student in the English department. He can be con­tacted via email at mapple@skyenet.net or http://www.skyenet.net/-mapple!. 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Ifyou pick up a starving 
dog and make him pros­perous, he will not bite you. This is the principal differ­ence between a dog and a man." 
-Mark Twain 

c------~-~­

VIEWPOINT
Tuesda, March 25, 1997 page 9 
• THE MIGHTY OAK 

Aliens and destruction: For your viewing pleasure 
Watch tonight as cities are destroyed in fiery, apocalyptic ruin! Real live footage of mangled bodies amid burn­ing wreckage! See hundreds of people falling to their deaths from collapsing buildings! Feast your eyes on a lack of discretion and good taste! 

Sean O'Connor 

All of this "real TV" is way out of hand. The excited announcers come on and blare about death and tragedy with a zestful glee to a backdrop of chaos and snazzy graphics. It is only a slight­ly watered down version of "Faces of Death." Aircraft careening into the screaming stands at airshows and drag racing funny cars losing axles and flinging them into the crowd should not be graphically displayed with a revel­rous attitude. But I guess this captures the attention of the public. 
As we approach the fateful millenni­um. the public fascination with disaster is growing out of control. Films about meteors raining down on rioting mctropoli, volcanoes erupting in L.A. and New York. California sliding away into the sea, and aliens conquering Kansas dominate the TV movie fare. Hopefully all such disasters will have happy endings like "Independence Day." The president and cropdusters flying F-16s could lead our counterat­tack. and all the world would be united in peace and brotherhood. I hope Macintosh Powerbooks can interface with alien computer systems, as in the film. 
What are the probabilities of a vol­canic eruption in the middle of one of our major cities? Maybe geological impossibilities have a high rate of occurrence; I don't know. Maybe a vol­cano could burst forth on the Notre Dame campus; maybe near the Hessert Aerospace Research Center, or more disastrously, near the flag pole in the middle of South Quad. Hundreds of students on their way to DeBartolo would be consumed by rivers of lava. 
Or maybe we could all suddenly and simultaneously spontaneously combust. The threat is very real. I think we have electrical impulses running through our bodies; so maybe we could just short circuit, so to speak. Just think, you could be sitting in math class working on integrals or those damned statistics and suddenly burst into flames. Nothing would be left except for a !itt!~ pile of ashes on your seat. If you sat in the back of class, maybe no one would even notice, especially if you did not participate much. 
Naysayers, take heed the story of this poor soul. A man's wife got up and left the room to go to the bathroom. As he sat there reading the morning paper, the room suddenly grew eerily cold. He jumped up and raced into the bath­room only to find the missus reduced to ash. After a period of intense grief, the man garnered a hefty life insurance settlement. Makes you want to buy spontaneous combustion insurance, doesn't it? 
I also have an intense fear of alien abduction. The following chilling account forever cemented the reality of this perilous threat in my trembling head: Two fellows by the name of Cletus and Tex were canoeing down a river one fine afternoon when some­thing changed their lives forever. "Sure, we were smoking and drinking all day, but we lost two whole hours. They jist [sic] vanished from our nog­gins like cooling pie off the window sill. Then we find ourselves at this little bend in the crick, stuck in a log Jam. We says to the park ranger, 'How'd we get here at this landing, what time is it?' He says, 'There's no way you boys could have floated that far down the river in two hours, water's too low.' But we seen a second ranger so we asked him. He was real funny looking. He says nothing, just turns his back and walks away into the woods real strange-like. And that's when we knew: the aliens had had us!" 
Last night on "Baywatch Nights," Mitch Buchanan solved the case of sev­eral psychotic people, including one of his playboy colleagues, who had become infected with the blood of some devil worshipper guy and thus inherit­ed said killer's sinister characteristics. After some mayhem and a little quick detective work, the crazed infected people were apprehended and all traces of the mass murderer's blood were cleansed from their systems, thus curing them. The smoke swirling about Mitch's feet and his purposeful stride towards the camera in the closing cred­its make me confident of his ability to always thwart the forces of evil. 
Then there is the disturbing case of hauntings. Spirits of all sorts, their souls unrequited, trouble the living ceaselessly. As we approach 2000, I'll bet more spooks are about. On a rep­utable talk show, I heard the tale of the ghost of Tupac Shakur and his exploits. Two kids were watching TV in their apartment one afternoon when they saw the shadow of a bald man project­ed on the wall. As there were no bald men residing in the household, the assumption was made that the shadow belonged to the ghost of Tupac. Further strengthening the already impregnable case, a small ball, like a little Tupac in appearance, according to one witness, was spotted on the win­dow sill. My sympathy and a handsome check from the TV production company to these traumatized folks. 
I guess this tale from another individ­ual is proven untrue: "l looked up in the sky and I saw one star shining brighter than all the others, and I said to myself, 'That's Tupac, up in heaven, smoking a blunt.'" Apparently the per­son had sighted Venus. 
But if the sighting had occurred Sunday night, the aforementioned star could have been Mars. Mars was unusually bright because of a lunar eclipse, and to add to the magic, a comet was visible to the naked eye. As I watched a dark shadow blot out the familiar cheery face of the moon. hor­ror crept into my mind, and I thought perhaps our reckoning was off and the millennium was coming early. I spent a few worried hours watching and waiting and lo and behold, thank the heavens, the moon was again unmasked, the fatal red glow of Mars, the god of war, was muted, and I was assured that the world would continue for at least three more years. Or four, if you want to be really accurate, because the millennium actjlally dawns on January 1, 2001. So I guess everyone gets an unlooked-for bonus year. 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
• LHTER TO THE t£HTOR 


Is another sports facility really necessary? 
Dear Editor, 

I note with interest the structure which is tak­ing shape to the north of the Joyce Center athlet­ic complex, which I am told will house yet anoth­er "recreational facility." I wonder at the priori­tics of those here at Notre Dame who are in charge of the general allotment of funds. I would have thought that there already existed on this campus sufficient opportunities to exer­cise the body, and that a new place to play would be a low priority. Much more needed is the provision of office space to adjunct profes­sors and graduate students, both of whom are inexcusably put into the position of teaching a full complement of classes, without adequate space in which to work or meet with students. Equally appalling is the campus netwgrk, which may be reached from off-campus only after mid­night or before 10 a.m., because the number of phone lines reflects most likely less than 1 per­cent of those users who would wish to dial-in. It seems that the priorities of those in charge of the University budget are not my own. However, when I am meeting with students in Waddicks Coffee shop, working in my miniscule library carrel, or waiting hours to dial-in to the campus network. I take great consolation in the fact that the University administrators are ensuring that the glorious Notre Dame tradition is protected. Yes, we can all rest assured that this school will always be what it always has been: a good sports school. 
D. GREGORY MACISAAC 5th year Graduate Student Department of Philosophy 


By MARY BETH ELLIS 
Accent Copy Editor 

"And will rumors of a Student Union materialize into some­thing concrete? The plans have been completed .... " -The Scholastic 
April 24, 1953 

It is errand center, office tower, a shortcut from God Quad to the Library. It is an air hockey arena, laundromat, and coffee house. 
You know it. You love it. LaFortune. Dedicated in 1953, "the living room of the Notre Dame commu­
nity" is a schizophrenic catch-all building that is at once the virtual second home to a host of student leaders, a big-screen TV center, and a hand-warming why-don't-we­stop-in-for-hot-choco­late-and-buy-even­MORE-Officially­Licensed-Products-of­the-University-of-Notre­Dame stop for football weekend pilgrims. 
More than quarter dogs used to ferment in the struc­ture that now serves as LaFortune. If you take a glance at the Stonehenge entrance you'll see a grey con­crete "SCIENCE" plaque slapped to the brick just over the doorway. Yep, this was where Knute took his chem classes. 
So how did LaFun go from chlo­

rine to Copy Shop? Alumni. Notre Dame abandoned the cur­
rent LaFortune as a science hall in the early-1950s, and the building was emptied of all but the rumors that swirled about it as the future home of the new "student center." In October 1953, then-University President Father Theodore Hesburgh announced that Joseph LaFortune, Class of 1916, had donated enough funds to cover the renovation of the Science Building. Mrs. Ernest Morris -as in the Morris Inn -was placed in charged of planning the project. A variety of other sources kicked in over $17,000 to fur­nish the center. 


During the spring semester of 1954, a group of Notre Dame students began stripping the Science Building of its parti­tions, shelves and showcases to make way for the ballroom and info desk. (LaFortune Fun Fact #1: The administration gra­ciously donated the wood from to argue the cabinets and dividers to the those big student body to be used for ... retired from drum roll please ... class dance The tiny decorations.) The new student September center was up" and running by declared a 
the following semester and along, the renovated in 1987, again ing for a 
through donations from camouflage the LaFortune family. opened it to LaFortune may have . . . Nearly 20 
been established as a Huddle workers from 1946, as pictured 1n Scholastic magazine. financiers location to buy bags of store, nam stale Fritos and tissue paper-wrapped roses to hand to nursed it through the Great SYR dates in the '50s, but the history nf its most The Huddle became The Huddle famous component .--------------------------------11 -the Huddle ­stretches back even further. As long ago as 1910, an enter­prising mem­ber of the fac­
ulty, Brother ""{'...."··'"" 
" L e a p " Leopold, took for his own a cor­ner of the " p I a y hall," a I o n g ­defunct ·building t h a t stood near the Fieldhouse, and set up an ecclesiastical ver­sion of a lemonade stand. Notre Dame students quickly dubbed it "Leap's" in honor 
of its founder's nickname ""------"-'-'-'--"'-'"..6..--'--~--~'-------'""'-'--­
and began flocking to the snack shop for marshmallow cookies area when the suddenly stripped and lemonade between classes. Capitalism being capitalism. <>turlrmt center. The Huddle then 
Although the chances of getting robbed
• MONEY TALKS 


are slim, it can and does happen, auu· starting off on day one of your overseas adventure will be no fun without any money at all. If you insist on bringing all of your money over at once, at least buy travelers' checks, which are protected against theft, and do not change all of your American dollars over to foreign currency in the airport. The airport money changers charge a higher rate than most banks or other agencies. 
Another reason why you might not 
By JUSTYN HARKIN 
Money Talks Correspondent 

This week's column is specifically directed to those brave students who will be studying abroad next semester. Although your date of departure may be a few months away, it is never too soon to start planning ahead. Fortunately, the international studies programs at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are very good about making sure their'students are well­informed about the customs and conventions of the countries in which they will be studying. 
Expect to receive, if you haven't already, several packets of informa­tion regarding the country to which you are planning to go. One thing that these packets are not so good about (at least they weren't when I went abroad) is advice concerning the management of your overseas finances. Although you can expect to hear the conventional wisdom regarding travelers' checks and money belts; the information packets generally leave you to decide which method of money management is best for you. 
First and foremost. plan on leaving your checkbooks at home. It is hard enough to find a place in South Bend that will take out-of-town checks, so don't think it will be any easier in Ireland or Chile. Another thing that you should also avoid is bringing all of your money over as United States currency. Even if the money you hav~ saved over the sum­mer is all you will have for the year, do not bring all of it with you. 
want to change all your money over at once is that doing so might cost you a lot of money if you plan to travel, particularly if you will be studying in Europe. If you plan on traveling to other countries during your stay, you will have to change currency each time you enter a new country. Money changers either charge a flat fee or a percentage of the exchange rate when you change money; either way the services they offer are not for free. The more times you change money, the more you pay. For example, if you change all of your American dollars to French francs when you first arrive, you will end up paying even more when you change those francs for Italian lira as opposed to just changing dollars to lira. 
Perhaps one of the most important questions you will have to ask your­self before you go abroad is "What kind of spender am I?" -the way you handle you money will greatly depend upon the answer. Are you, for example, the kind of person that can make $500 last for six months? Or do you better fit the description of a person who has Daddy's gold card and his advice to experience everything new? The amount that you plan on spending and even who's going to be paying the bills are, of course, also very important questions to ask before you go. 
Another thing to consider is that your year or semester abroad will be unlike any other of your college career, and you may find yourself doing things you would never do at home. While you may be fairly conservative as far as money goes, you may never get a chance to go back to the place where you will be studying; so when somebody suggests a last minute trip to Oktoberfest or a wild weekend in Buenos Aires, you might actually hear yourself saying "yes." 
I have found that the best way bring along a number of differe to cover you fairly well. I am that you don't have; rather, the pected, last minute trip into the ularly European ones, keep parts (Spanish banks, for <>v<>mm• weekdays and are closed on never closed. Having a credit of the country you are in no you should have more than one accept certain companies. Your you a lot of good when the only 
The same idea holds true for your American checks are no gooc cash station card won't work. Sorr era\ foreign ATMs and it might be cash card for an emergency; howe a credit card. 
The best way to manage your c your banking stateside. Although your credit from overseas, some! most trustworthy (When I was in 1 school was emptied only once a we the job, it might be best to have U 
arrives, and you can then mail t don't charge interest. 
Still another reason why credit might be able to beat the money cards such as MasterCard and Vi cent of all cash withdrawals, exchange. If you find that the lo cent (unlikely) or that 3 percent < whieh is usually about five U.S. card. Just remember though, if y at the end of the month, you mi least they stop charging you once 
I 
I 
. f 

L___ _ 








ACCENT
Tuesday, March 25, 1997 page 11 

•.MEDICAL MINUTE 
One in ten wotnen, of any age.• • 
Byl.ARRY WARD 
Medical Minute Correspondent 
W
ithin tb eJ!:t ~e~r<l;po\lt 5,700 y.-omen between the ages of 40 · and 49 .· . die of bteast cancer, In fact; one out of every 10 . women will develop breast cancer at some point throughout her life. Breast cancer remains the cancer that kills the greatest num­ber.of'Y?men each year, other than lung cancer. . _ 
In women. the breasts change·. after puberty and continually change 
until women reach menopause. This continuous change of the breasts is due to the constant fluctuation of various hormones within the female body. Durbig puberty; womenproduce estrogen in large quan­tities: · to.est.rggep p~ tion, the bteasts rapidly develop stroma, a • fra ork ofconnective sue within the breast, and a system of glands arid ducts. In additwn, fat cells begin to build up within the breastsand consequently compose the bulk of breast tissue. 
Thr?vghout a wqman's lif~;per bre.asts chang~ monthly ~ue to the pheno1;tl,~rt?n knovvn as tlie ~enstrual PYI'lJe.. Throughout the first half of the tnenstrual cycle, the ovaries release estrogen which causes new cellstogrow in the glands, ducts, and other breast tissue. In addition, more blood flows t?. the breasts during the first half of the menstrual cycle . .In the Sec()nd half of.the menstrual cycle, the' glands in the breasts are bomb&rded with progesterone and estrogen. This bom­bardment causes the breasts to produce the precursors of breast mille If the female does not become pregnant, the hormone level rapidly decreases and the body absorbs both the secretions and new cells that have been produce4 by the breasts. In addition, the transport of blood to the breasts diminishes considerably; 
On the other hand, if the woman does become pregnant, the breasts will continuously enlarge and they may gain as much as a pound of weight, Jhis excess weight iS due to more cells being laid down in the stroma and fat cells being added to the breasts. In addition, if a womanbecomes pregnant, the nipple and areola are apt to grow much · larger. . · 
With all of the constant changes going on in the breasts. it is no won­der thl'ttsomething could easily go wrong and a cancer could form. The most common sign that a woman has developed breast cancer is the appearance of a lump in one of the breasts. The lump is often painful or tender. Other signs and symptoms of breast cancer include clear ol' bloody discharge fr{_}m the nipple, retraction of the nipple, a change in the· contour of tM breasts (i.e; one of the breasts is higher than the other), any flattening or indentation of the breast, or redness and pitting. 
Th(}tuxpors thatyvm dev~l~p.with brea,~tcancer can often be felt by a self~ examination ?f the breast: Howey~r, mammograms also have proven inf'mitelyuseflil in diagnosi..n'g breast cancer. Mammograms can detect tumors that are one-eighth of an inch in diameter, while manual examina.tions cannot detect .tt1mors that are smaller than a half-inch 
.around.•. ~()"1-vever;.even·.fil!llll:Ill:ogram!:i.~anilot always serve a useful purposein detecting cancer sirt<:e some tumors are so aggressive. 
·For example, an aggressive tumor grows so quickly that by the time it can 4e detected with a mammogram, it is already likely to have seed­.ed an()tP,~[organ yvi.fu cans~r;.. Howeve.r, a ductal carcinoma in situ. ·· Whi~?h Js found in tpe ducts ofthe breast; ~s an earlier and usually more treatable form of cancer. In fact, between 15 and 60 percent of these tumors · be detected by mammograms. Finally, an indolent tumor is such · thatitmay take years to develop. It is 
thO • aggressiVe tumors, not detected until they can be has a gn:,at chance for survival. 
canyer is surgery. The doctor will 9~ th~ bre~st, This surgery can tlierapy, hormone therapy. or doct()r:may decide to remove an area 
in order to test for malignancy. 

when· the cancer has reached the ,.,·.;-v.nl+ho cell~ Jhathave.escaped. surgical tormc•h~ th.erl'lp~(cl'tllhelp. stop<a tumor from growing and in to shrink. Finally, chemotherapy, anti­rid the body of tumors. However, __''" ..,.,.• .,..,..,-. ,.,;.;.i:.;,,rt.,,.., toxicy.!lnd cause many often adverse 
.,.,...,rr..,,rt wlio have passed puberty give eXl!IJUma,uonson a regular basis. In addition, it is rec­. a lump in their breast or :o~1~•]JJt.:t~··uMt:~u~.-and receive a mam-

Larry Ward is a junior science pre-professional major originally from Johnstown. Pa. If you have any comments or suggestions about the Medtcdl Minute. he can be reached via e-mail at 
· Ward.25@nd.edu . 
• 

• 
Fun has seen it all 
posters. a soda nxchango fountain. and a hard typing juh box all put in labor in appearances. Plans exchange wnre underway to for... the expand the building price of a to include a seating single quar­
Building became the ter dog. d•1wn tlw quad a third 
handle unexpected expenditures is to it cards. One of each. in fact, ought , however. advocating spending money ·o, of credit cards can facilitate an unex­nown. Whereas foreign banks, partic­t hours from their American counter­', are open from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m. day and Sunday). an ATM machine is can insurP that you have the currency what time of day or night. The reason xedit card is that some ATMs do not old American Express card won't do 
in town only accepts Visa. sh station cards. While it is true that 
abroad. that doesn't mean that your e companies such as Cirrus have sev­worth your while to bring along your ver. you will always be better off with 
redit overseas is to have someone do you can certainly make payments on · imes foreign post ollices are not the 'oledo, Spain, the mailbox outside our ek!). If you can trust Mom or Dad with 
em pay your bill when the statement em a check. Hopefully Mom and Dad 
rds aro the best way to go is that you changers at their own game. Credit , for example, typically charge 2 per­ith an additional 1 percent for the d exchange rate is higher than 3 per­f your advance is lower than the fee, ollars, go ahead and use your credit 1 don't plan on paying your bill in full 
. t as well use a money changer -at m leave their office. 
is coming to Stepan Tuesday, April 8,.at 8 p.m. 
wwoft~. ~ft~wo. ~~c~~~~®. ·.·.[Ri..~©ft ·· ~rru©llrfnl® ~@©~® 
Tickets on sale at the LaFun Info Desk, Wed., March 26. at 3 p.m.: 
$15'ND, SMC, HCCstudents (2 tickets per ID, 4 IDs per person) aod $18 f~qulty apd.staff 
Thurs., March 27 at 9 a.m.: 

open to the general public and orders by phone ($18) 
soon expanded the oper­ded merchalldise to his 
States entered World War 
d. dragging Notre Dame Leap's" was bounced out Quad sidewalk to make when the Army estab­ite on campus. Not one the Army -they have 
s and all -Brother Leap e snack business. was completed in 
18. After armistice was the Army went rolling versity bought the build­pping $50, replaced the 'ith a candy counter, and te general student public. lars later two private 1 South Rend bought the it "The Huddle," and (LaFortune Fun Fact #2: 1 an attempt to cutesify Notre Dame's foot­ball prowess, but as an homage to the little store's ten­dency to attract students as an area to ... well... huddle. ) 
Following the out­brPak of World War 
II. the University onctl more took over the former PX and faced tlw diffi­cult task of tmleting tlw student's needs during the age of ration coupons. The lluddln continued to thrive, however, and football time to its present pizza­selling, Oriental food non­selling location. 
Let's review, shall we? 
1. 
Actual intellectual activity once took place in the building we now know as LaFortune. 

2. 
If Father Sorin knew that people sit around watching "The Simpsons" where sci­ence once took place, he would probably haunt us all. 

3. 
There was actually once a religious on this campus known as. and I qtiote, Work 


"13 th I " ers t · 
ro er ~eap. durin . s rtp th 
4. And he g Jts 195 e Wafts ot apparently had a recipe 3 renovau La~ortun for some killer marshmallow on. e cookies. 
5. At some point ,...,.--...,......,---,----~,..,.,---,-...,.,...---,,......--~,......-----,------, 
in the past Notre Dame students actually exchanged hard physi­cal labor in the curr(lnt LaFortunP in exchange for .... wood. 
6. As opposed to today. when Notre Dame stu­dents' 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 25, 1997 
• WoMEN's NCAA Toum\!AMENT 

Volunteers ruin Connecticut's unbeaten season 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER 
Associated Press Writer 

IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Connecticut's dream of an unbeaten sea­
son is over. Tennessee's recovery will con­
tinue in the Final Four. 

Tennessee, the defending national cham­pion, weathered a second-half rally after building a 15-point lead and beat No. 1­ranked Connecticut 91-81 Monday night in the Midwest Regional finals. 
In the latest installment of a rivalry that has become one of the most intense in women's basketball, Tennessee (27-10) avenged a 72-57 loss to Connecticut on Jan. 5 and will play East Regional champi­on Notre Dame in Cincinnati on Friday night. 
All-American Chamique Holdsclaw, keep­
ing her poise after getting her fourth foul 
with 9:14 left, scored 21 points to lead the
• Lady Vols, who will make their third straight Final Four appearance and 1Oth overall. They've come back strong after consecu­tive losses to Connecticut and Old Dominion left them 10-6 in. early January. They still have a chance to become just the second repeat champion in NCAA women's play; Southern Cal won titles in 1983 and 1984. Connecticut (33-1). the 1995 national champion, was denied a third straight Final Four trip and a chance for a second unbeaten season in three years. Nykesha Sales led Connecticut with 26 points and Kara Wolters scored 17. Kellie Jolly. who did not play in the first game with Connecticut this season because she was recovering from a knee injury, added 19 points for Tennessee and Pashen Thompson had 15. The Tennessee-Notre Dame game will be a rematch of the semifinals in the presea­son NIT. Tennessee won that game 72-59. 
Trailing at halftime for the first time this season and down 4 7-33 early in the second half. Connecticut got six points from Sales and five from Carla Berube in a 15-3 run that drew the Huskies to 50-48 with 14:26 left. 
Rita Williams' steal and layup left Connecticut trailing 53-52, but third-seed­ed Tennessee responded. Holdsclaw leaped high to intercept Berube's pass and drove for a layup, starting a 9-0 run that stretched the lead to 62-52. 
Connecticut got the lead back down to six before a 9-2 run that included a 3-pointer by Jolly put Tennessee. up 73-60 with 4:01 remaining. Sales' 3-pointer pulled the Huskies within six again with 3:14 to play, but Tennessee scored the next seven points -four by Holdsclaw-to put it away. 
Holdsclaw, a sophomore, was named the regional's most outstanding player. She scored 20 points in a semHinal victory over Colorado on Saturday night. 
It was the sixth meeting between Connecticut and Tennessee since January 1995. Tennessee had beaten the Huskies only once previously, 88-83 in overtime in the national semifinals last year. 
Tennessee dominated the first half with strong rebounding and s'olid defense that forced Connecticut to take outside shots the Huskies couldn't hit. 
Connecticut also had foul problems. Wolters sat out the final 7:33 of the half after picking up her second foul on a charging call. Sales, a second-team All­American, was tagged with her second foul at 8:03 and played only 13 minutes in the half. 
Tennessee scored three baskets after offensive rebounds during an 18-7 run that broke a 6-6 tie and put the Lady Vols up 24-13 with eight minutes gone in the game. Connecticut was playing catchup the rest of the way. 
Reserve Misty Greene's 3-pointer made it 39-26 and Tiffani Johnson's three-point play after yet another offensive rebound gave Tennessee its biggest lead of the half, 42-27. 
UConn got the lead down to nine with six straight points before Tennessee scored the final three of the half to go up 45-33. The worst off Connecticut had been previously at halftime was a two-point lead over Kansas, a game the Huskies won 85-64. 

The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CRUISE LINES HIRING - POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  JAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZ  Lost/stolen-computer disk with  
NOTICES  Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel (Europe, Caribbean, etc.). No exp. necessary.  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  IBM Computer For Sale Includes: 'Modem  'it's coming' get into the swing• put a little groove in your thing ..................................  label "MARKETING CLUB" plus other papers-Wedneday 3/19. If found please call Jen @ 243-9019  
THE COPY SHOP  (919)918-7767, ext. C154.  'Microsoft Office  1997 NOTRE DAME COLLE- or 1-9330-important!  
LaFortune Student Center  (Member, Better Business Bureau  New 5 bedroom home, two bath,  '3 1/2 and 5 1/4 Drives  GIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL  
Phone 631-COPY  CARE Program.)  two car garage. Central air, dish- In Perfect Shape-Great for  -april11 & 12  Carla- 
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker,  College Students! Call 273-9747  Wanna goat talk?  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  washer/dryer included.  Price Negotiable.  check out smooth tunes from  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  FRIENDS OR SIBLINGS  $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232-4527  Northern Arizona, Michigan  BECK IN CONC";ERT  
Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  GRADUATING?  or 683-5038.  FREE Phone Card. No restrictions,  (Central, Western, Ann Arbor),  with Atari Teenage Riot  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m.  Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .1 9  Virginia, Iowa. Purdue, and some of  and the Roots  
Sat.: Noon· 6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon -Midnight  WORK CATERING FOR GRADUATION!  NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  min. in the U.S. SASE to: Free Phone Card, PO Box 1041,  the most outstanding pros in today's jazz scene .....  Stepan, Apr. 8, 8 pm.......................  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  • FREE ROOM/BOARD  Logansport, IN 46947  GET CULTURED FOR CHEAP  Student tickets only:.  
lLOST & FOUND I  • $6.75 PER HOUR MAY 10·18 HOUSING DEADLINE 4/3/97 SIGN UP: M·FRI 10:00-5:00  5 BDRMS IN HOME -close to cam­pus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all utilities & kitchen privileges. $225/mo. 232·2794 -Paul  PC Laptop: Award winning Winbook  you know you want to watch for info, or if you can't stand the suspense, call1-7757, or email cjf.1 @nd.edu .................  $15 at the LaFun Info Desk 3 pm, Wed, Mar. 26 2 tix per I D. 4 I D's per person .......................  
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with  CATE:RING EMPLOYMENT  XP, 486DX4 75, 540Mb HD, 8Mb  JAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZ  General Public $18  
my name written in gold on the  OFFICE  Beautiful. huge one-bedroom apart·  RAM, 1Mb VRAM 256 color 1 0.4"  9 am, Thurs. Mar. 27  
cover. Extremely important infor·  SOH LOWER LEVEL  ment overlooking pool at The  Dual Scan, 14.4 bps Modem, 2  
mation inside. I really need it!  631-5449  Pointe downtown. Has everything,  PCIIMCA slots. Win 95 & Office 95.  BALLROOM DANCE TONIGHT IN  Looking for ride to Chicago Mdwy  
Please call Tara at 4·1291  incl. washer & dryer. Sublet May 1·  Less than 1 year old, wonderful  STEPAN CENTER 6:00-8:00 PM  on Mar. 27. Please call Shawn @  
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY- July 31 (or start a new lease). You  system for fun and serious work.  LEARN THE CHA-GHA AND  x1625.  
LOST/STOLEN: computer disk with  MENT • Discover how workers can  keep my $200 deposit! 282-2212 or.  Kajal 631-5312  ADVANCED FOXTROT!  
label "Marketing Club" plus some  earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise  631-7048.  EX ND STAFFER AND SPOUSE  
various papers. Possibly in Library on Wednesday 3/19. Please call Jen @ 243-9019 or 1-933D-very important'  Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­mer in the Land Tour industry! Call Cruise Information Services: 800­276-5407 Ext. C55846  FOR SALE I  TICKETSI Graduation tickets needed. Will  SENIOR NAVY ROTC-Ex. Nuc. L T has a great deal on uniforms call for info 287-4609  (RETIRED) WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS, NON-DRINKERS, NO PETS, REF­ERENCES. WRITE 135 LAKE­ 
1986 Acura Integra -5 sp, A/C,  pay $$. Please call Christian x1 071  LOST 3/17!  VIEW, MULBERRY FL 33860 OR  
WANTED  Summer Girl Needed -Chicago  cass., sunroof. Good Shape $1900. 273-5930  NEED ND GRAD. TIX.  ND Class Ring Blue Stone Full name inside  PHONE (941)425-4404 ANYTIME.  
North Suburbs. Live in and help  PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5  Reward, If found  
SUMMER JOBS  care for 3,5,1 0, and 14 year olds.  MEN'S BIKE FOR SALE. Red ten  PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME.  call Mark 243-9396  Dan C. is just a big gossip. But we  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Non-smoker with drivers license.  speed, recently tuned-up. Racing- love him anyway ...  
..  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Salary plus room and board. Interested person call 847 -295·  style bike. Lock included. Great for spring weather. Only $30! Call 4­ PERSONAL  Adoption: A very loving, financially secure, well educated young cou- If you see The Observer van, call1­ 
NEAR LAKE PLACID  3493.  1134  pie, long to adopt your newborn.  4541. (actually, don't...)  
1-800-786-8373  Keough Hall Singled Out  Close and caring extended family.  
DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIVING  II you want to date a 'Roo, call lor  We offer a special life for your child.  Kel and Corrine -have fun on  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING- Paid Record Label Internship: Red  THESE ND WINTERS? LLBean  an interview. Keough Week 1997  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  break! love, me  
Plus Forest. Beach Resorts,  Ant seeks marketing reps in South  down coat for sale-great cond.,  Interested? Call Steve at X0600  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  
Ranches, Rafting Companies. Up to  Bend who love alt./rock music. 10­ men's S-this is the warmest coat  Good thing Jamie H. gives me such  
$12/hour. Nationwide openings.  20hrs/wk, working w/record stores,  you can find! will keep you warm on  .........CLASS OF '98"""""  good things to gossip about...  
Call (919)918-7767, ext. R154.  lifestyle stores, colleges, artists.  those walks to & from D2, D6, C1­ Electrolysis by Rebecca  
Call Rob Ossorio Toll Free 1-888­ great deal for $125!  Blend Method 674-6933  SEND LETIERS TO FRIENDS  Hi BRYAN!  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  RED-ANTS.  call Wendy @ 243 9430  ABROAD. THE LAST CHANCE  
-Fishing Industry.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  OF THE SEMESTER. DUE BY  Dan is the Bug Man no more!  
Learn how students can earn up to $2,850/mo + benefits (room & board). Call Alaska Information  FOR RENT  MOVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? WE HAVE EVERYTHING FOR YOU!!!  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!I The highest quality color copies  TUES. MARCH 26th AT 213 LAFUN....................................  #"#'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'#"#'#"#'#'#'#  
Services: 206·971-3514, xA55841.  2 Bdrm College Park Condo avail- 2·bedroom appartment package for  are now available at  THE NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S  
able for summer sublet.  sale, including: two bedroom sets,  THE COPY SHOP  elsie's promise  HOOPS TEAM ROCKS !!!  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ Call 243-9357  dining room set, living room set  LaFortune Student Center  with special guests  LOOK OUT CINCINNATI, HERE  
Earn up to $3,000·$6,000+/mo. in  inclluding TV and VCR, and  Phone 631·COPY  Tashi Station  COME THE IRISH !!1  
lisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare!  Near Campus  kitchenware (including all appli­ at  GOOD JOB MOLLIE, BASU & J !!!  
Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  Homes for 97-98  ances), etc ... Very good condition.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Bridget's  #'#.#"#'#'#"#"#'#'#'#'#"#'#'#'#  
Call (919)918-7767, ext. A154.  232·2595  For more information call 272-5702  21 9·291-7153  Wed. March 26  


Tuesday, March 25, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING 
Trio makes strong showing at Championships 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
New Music at Notre Dame·Festival 
Chamber Recital 
Monday 4 pm Annenberg Auditorium 
Lecture by Guest composer 
~ ~ 

_<:.>Y Ingram Marshall '{(6~ ~ d'tscussing his newly commissioned piano trio Rave ~ 4 pm Room 124 Crowley Hall 
Final Evening Gala Concert 
featuring several premiere performances Wednesday 8 pm Annenberg Auditorium 

Monday, March 24 to Wednesday, March 26 All events are free and open to the public. . 
Happy 21st .. Birthday, Tommy Boy! 
Thur'r'e legal now••• 
•••Livefree·· or die! 

23rd in the preliminaries of the ies.
Brooks, Newell, 
100-meter backstroke with a "Overall, we thought that they 
time of 56.08. had done a good job on the first Suddarth put A pair of day," head coach Bailey 
freshmen Weathers commented. "ItIrish on map rounded out would have b.een nice to get 
the Irish con­someone into the final heat onBy BILL HART tingent. the first day, but we knew that
Sporrs Wrirer 
Shannon the events on Sunday were our The Notre Dame women's Suddarth stronger ones." 
swimming team finished its placed 22nd "Even though we all hSJ,d good season this weekend in the in the prelim­swims on the first day, we were NCAA Championships at the inaries of the all a little disappointed," 
Indiana University Natatorium 100 back-Suddarth remarked. "However, in Indianapolis. The Irish were stroke with a time of 1:03.37, our times made us want to try 
represented by three swim­which broke her previous even harder on the second day, mers, the largest contingent in record set at the Big East and I think the results show for Notre Dame history. Championships. Alison Newell themselves." 
On the first day, senior All­swam the 100 butterfly in 55.98 On the second day, Brooks led American Erin Brooks placed to place 32nd in the preliminar-the Irish as she placed eighth in 


Master of Ceremony 


Regis Philbin 
•••to be JOined by Chris Zorich, Jerome Bettis, Derrick Mayes, Tony Rice, Jerry Faust and a few more surprises.
April 8, 1997 Joyce Center 7:30pm 
Doors open at 6:45pm 

Tickets available at LaFortune & the Joyce Center ticket office Arena Seating·?t $10.00 • $5.00 Students 
www.RoastTheCoach.com 219.674.0900, ext 121•2 

R.UM-OFF ILICTIOMI 4R.I TO~OR.R.OW! 
Vote for your class officers and off,campus reps from 
11 a.m.-1 p.m. and 5-7 p.m. Vote in hall lobbies ortn• the Huddle 
the 200 backstroke with a time of 1:58.55 to earn All-America honors for the second consecu­tive year. 
Earlier in the day, Brooks swam 1:58.14 to claim the sev­enth fastest time in the prelim­inaries. Brooks placed 10th in the same event in the 1996 Championships. 
"On the first day, I wasn't all that pleased with how I did," Brooks commented. "I was hoping to get into the consola­tion heat, but things didn't work out. Even though I did better on the second day, I still feel some disappointment." 
"Erin has helped us out a lot over these past few years," Weathers remarked. "She's brought a lot of notoriety to our program, espec1ally through being an All-American two years in a row. She's one of the best swimmers in the country, and she proved it this week­end." 
The two freshmen continued to impress, both taking high marks in their respective events. Newell swam 2:01.72 in the evening finals to place 13th. She placed 10th in the preliminaries with a time of 
2:00.53 to break her own school record which she set in the Big East Championships. 
"I was really nervous, this be­ing my first trip to the NCAA Tournament," Newell said, "but that went away after my first event. On Sunday, I redoubled my efforts and it paid off." 
Suddarth broke her school 
record in the 200 backstroke for the second time on Saturday. In the preliminaries, she placed 15th with a time of 
2:16.31 to break the school record which she set in the Big East Championships. 
Later in the day, Suddarth improved with a time of 2:15.41 in the finals, placing 13th over­all. The time avenged a loss earlier in the year against Miami's Kristine Tellegen in the 200 breaststroke at the Big East Championships. Tellegen placed 14th, behind Suddarth by only a quarter of a second. 
"We were happy with how both Shannon and Alison did this weekend," Weathers said. "I think there were a lot of peo­ple on the team who could have competed this weekend, and got the consideration times they needed, but they were just short of the cut that the com­mittee makes." 
Overall, the Irish placed 25th with 19 points. USC claimed the women's title with 406 points. The end of the NCAA Championships brings to a close one of the most successful seasons in Notre Dame history . 
"I thought we really accom­plished a lot this season," Weathers commented. "We made a lot of big strides, and we had a lot of fun doing it. We would have liked to have more people compete this weekend, but we were happy with how we did, and we think that it shows promise for the future of the program." 
page 14 
• BASEBAll 

-· 

The Observer· SPORTS 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball -'!'he final period for men's and women's teams to sign-up will be today irom 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in LaFortune. The sign-up cost is $15 per team. . : . 
Tae Kwon Do -Students are instructed in accordance with World TaeKwonDo Federation techniqltes .. .This semester-long co11rs.~ meets Sundays from .3.4 p.m. in Rockne Rm, 301. Students must register in advance at RecSports. The fee is $20. 
Cross Country Skiing .-· Rentals are avail· able Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, from 11 
a.m.-4 p.m. The rentals are located in the Golf Shop. Call 1-6425 for more information.. 
Climbing Wall Orientations are available at the Rockne Memorial Sundays at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign up outside .the waU. 
Advanced Scuba -RecSports will be sponsor· ing Advanced Scuba Classes. Participants must he certified divers. For more info. call 1-6100. 
Weekend Raequetball Tournament will take place on April 12 and 13 .. There will be men's and women's divisions, with t-shirts awarded to 
Tuesday, March 25, 1997 
all participants. Bring your own racquet. Racquetballs will be provided. Refreshments will be served. Participants must register by April 
10. There is a $8 fee. 
Christmas in April Benefit Run -April 12 is the date for this 5K or1OK run and' 2~mile walk. All registrants will be awarded a t-shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the ~y~nt. C~tl11-61 00 for mo:t:e information. 
Drop~in Volleyball .....,.. RecSports will offer Drop-ln Volleyball on Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Ca.Stmg and Angling Clinic -Clinic includes three sessions which meet on April 8, 15 and 17 from 6-7:15 p.m. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs and campus lakes. Equipment is provided,· but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and is open to students, staff and faculty. Advance registration the RecSports office is required. 
Notre Dame Pom Squad -An informational meeting will be held for the 1997-98 school year on April 3 at 9 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in Lafortune. The meeting is not mandatory for next year's try-outs. 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Spans Editor 
The Irish will be looking to halt a five game slide as they officially open their 1997 home schedule this evening against the Broncos of Western Michigan. The 5 p.m. matchup will be the first of three home contests this week. 
WMU returns 13 of 21 letter­man from a 1996 squad that finished 17-34 and placed ninth in the Mid-American conference. The returnees in­clude senior rightfielder Brent Sachs and junior hurler Billy Coleman. 
In his junior year. Sachs hit .397 with four home runs and 21 RBis. The right-handed Coleman went 5-6 in 1996 and struck out 66 batters en route to a 3.13 ERA. Coleman walked just 28 hitters in the course of the season. 
The Broncos' pitching staff is bolstered by the addition of top newcomers Brad Block from Portage, Mich. and Eric Place of Olivet, Mich. 
The 9-11 Irish are coming off of three straight losses to con­ference foe Seton Hall last weekend. The Pirates avenged a late season sweep from a year ago by battering the Irish for 37 runs in just three games. 
When asked what areas hurt the team in New Jersey, sopho­more Paul Turco could not put his finger on one particular aspect of the games. 
"It's· tough to say that any one thing (happened)," the. shortstop explained. "We just didn't do the things we needed to do to win. It was a pretty disappointing weekend." 
Turco did acknowledge that the team would be dwelling on the losses. 
"You've got to focus on any positives you can find," said Turco. "A guy like (Mike) Amrhein is just having a great season, and some of the guys (pitchers) threw some strong innings." 
The Irish must accentuate those positives this week in or­der to regain some confidence for upcoming Big East games. 
"We just have to forget about last weekend and start anew," Turco said. "The big thing is to not let (the Seton Hall series) affect us (this week)." 
Notre Dame will follow up their game with the Broncos by hosting Northeastern Illinois at 5 p.m. on Wednesday and the Chippewas of Central Michigan at the same time on Thursday. 


... 
Campus Ministry Internship 
Are you a graduating senior? 
Are you considering a career in ministry? 
Does the graduate school you are considering require hands on experience? 
Campus Ministry will be providing two graduate internships beginning in August, 1997. 
Applications are now available in the Badin Hall Campus Ministry office. 
Please contact Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242 or e-mail: Darrell.R.Paulsen.1 @nd.edu 
-----~~ ~------~----------,~---­
Tuesday, March 25, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Newest varsity squad continues to make noise 

Sophomore Kerry Callahan stung the Cardinal of Stanford with a barrage of five goals in the opening 23 minutes of action yesterday at Moose Krause Stadium. The Irish prevailed 19-13. 
By FRED CHEW and WRANGLER WHITMAN Sports Writers 
On a cold afternoon yesterday at Moose Krause Stadium, the women's lacrosse team turned up the heat and beat Stanford 19-13. With their sec­ond victory in three days, the Irish im­proved their record to 4-1, and are undefeated at home. 
Kerry Callahan cashed in five goals, including three in a row at one point in the game, and added three assists in the first 23 minutes of play to spark the Irish to a 12-2 lead. Callahan was even in on the play of the day as the recipient and converter of a great Eileen Regan assist. This stretched the Irish lead to 9-2. 
· A quick start is becoming the norm for this high-powered offense. 
"It is easy to score when the transi­tion game is working as well as it was today. I was open and my teammates made some great plays to pass the ball to me on the move," said Callahan. 
For the most part, the Irish domi­nated the Cardinal in the first 30 min­utes of the game, but a mental lapse in the last three minutes of the first half kept Stanford within striking dis­tance. They scored three quick goals and cut the Notre Dame margin to seven. 
Coach Tracy Coyne was visibly upset with the Irish effort in the last two minutes of the half, and called a time­out with only 4 7 seconds left before intermission. 
"Coach Coyne got t,~s back on track during the timeout," said defender Megan Schmitt. 
The timeout ebbed the Stanford flow, and· the Irish led 12-5 at the break. 
After a quick Stanford goal following the break, Notre Dame returned to their dominating form with crisp pass­ing, which led to a Tara Pierce goal off of a great feed from Stephanie Fox. 
"Our passing and transition game got Stanford off-balanced. 
Their team was very good, but our combinations were working and we pressured them very well," said Coyne. 
Leading 14-8 with 21 minutes left in the game, Callahan, Regan, and Fox again came up big, scoring three con­secutive goals and wiping out any chance of a Cardinal rally. 
Holding an apparently commanding 19-9 lead, the Irish again let up like they had at the end of the first half. The Cardinal took advantage, scoring four more quick goals, led by their star Alexis Patrizio, who ended up with six goals on the day. However, this was not enough as Notre Dame just had too big of a lead for Stanford to overcome 
\'We played really well except the last three minutes," said senior cap­tain Mara Grace, who scored three goals for the Irish. "When you get up a lot, you tend to lose focus. We need to learn to stay intense the whole game." 
Notwithstanding a few quick Cardinal scoring sprees, the Irish excelled in their home victory over Stanford. 
"I am not saying that we do not like to win on the road, but winning a,t home is great because we can share our success with our fans," said Schmitt. 
After a successful homestand with victories over Denver and Stanford, the Irish hope to improve their 4-1 mark this weekend with games against Duquesne and Davidson. 

Global Banking in the Year 2000 Sponsored by: Center for Research in Banking Wednesday March 26, 1997 Jordan Auditorium (COBA) 1:00 p.m.  

--~-~-~-------~-----­
page 16 
Big Dance 
continued from page 20 
she had 14 first half points and seven rebounds on her way to a 25 point, 16 rebound perfor­mance. Gaither's strong play in the paint helped the Irish push their lead to as many as 10 points in the first half, but strong play from George Washington's Tajama Abraham and Noelia Gomez kept their squad in the game as they each had 15 on the evening. 
In the second half, George Washington's long-range bomber Lisa Cermingnano came alive after being shut down by the Irish in the first. She had nine points, all coming in the second stanza. One of her three treys put her squad ahead for their only lead of the game at 39-38. 
Their lead did not last long as the Irish responded with a 16-4 run. The Colonial post players couldn't keep Gaither off the glass as her persistence on the boards paid off on a bucket to give Notre Dame the lead for good at 40-39. ­
On the defensive end of the court, McGraw switched from their traditional match-up zone to a man-to-man. ThtJ switch slowed the Colonials' attack which gave the Irish a chance to pull away. 
"When they took the lead, we switched to a man-to-man," McGuff said. "That was really the turning point, we started to stop them and were able to build on the lead." 
McGraw received solid contri­butions from all of her role play­ers as Morgan was held to just ten shots on the evening. Senior point guard Jeannine Augustin drained a much needed trey and finished with seven points, six rebounds and four assists. Her backcourt mate, Mollie Peirick also got involved under the basket as she added nine rebounds to her five assists. Sheila McMillen came off the bench to chip in seven points, six rebounds, and four assists. 
Rosanne Bohman compli­mented Gaither in the post with eight points and six rebounds. Freshman Julie Henderson and junior Kari Hutchinson, who was hampered with a broken hand several weeks ago, also gave McGraw solid minutes. 
"The kids just found a way to win," McGuffsaid. 
"Katryna and Beth did their jobs. I can't say enough about them," McGraw said about her All-Americans who were also named to the East Regional all­tournament team. "They con­tinued to work really hard and everyone else did their jobs also. We've never looked ahead and we've just taken it one step at a time." 
"This is unbelievable, it's the stuff dreams are made of," said an elated McMillen. "We've proved that we're better than a six seed and we definitely want to go to Cincinnati and give it our best." 
Gaither echoed her team­mate's sentiments. 
"We want to go there and we believe we can do some dam­age. We're just going to go there and play hard. We've be­lieved all along and we just need to keep on believing." 
"We want another shot at UConn," McGraw said. "Hopefully they'll win tonight. We feel like anything can hap­pen." 

The Observer • SPORTS 
_Journey 
continued from page 20 
ment in order to give that tal­ent a rest. 
Even the NCAA tournament has thrown the Irish some un­expected turbulence. The Irish offered the tournament a 27-6 record and a No. 13 ranking and received only a sixth seed in return. 
But the Irish have made their way past the pot holes. They have paid their tolls and are driving their way toward Cincinnati and the Final Four. 
And they are not about to slow down. 
With Tennessee's upset of the year over undefeated Connecticut last night, the Irish are the lone hope of the Big East. 
With their No. 6 seed, they are the clear-cut favorites of all those teams who are tired of being pushed around by bullies, namely Tennessee, UConn, and Georgia. 
They have All-Americans Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither taking turns in the dri­ver's seat and a six other play­ers fighting over the map. 
With five seniors and two ju­niors, they know that this will be the last road trip they will take as the team they know themselves to be. 
And although the road is still long, it appears to be consider­ably smoother as they won't have to face the Connecticut team that has beat them five consecutive times. 
Despite the fact that the adventurous Irish hoped to have a chance to conquer the uncharted territory of beating 
Tuesday, March 25, 1997 

Connecticut, they now will en­Yes, the map is charted and ter a neutral zone and face a the car is packed. team that is as new to the Destination: National Irish as they are to them. Championship. 


-. 
Tuesday, March 25, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Ivy Field awaits as squad returns from trip 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish aim to exceed.SOO mark versus IU 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
After a month-long road trip, the Notre Dame softball team finally heads home to the friendly confines of Ivy Field, playing host to intra-state rival Indiana this afternoon. 
The Blue and Gold carry an even 12-12 record into the double-header with the Crimson and Cream, after an outstanding cross-country tour over spring break. 
Tournaments in Oklahoma and California brought much luck to the Irish, as the battle­tested team emerged with a 10-5 record for the trip. 
"We've been able to practice outside on our field for the past week," said coach Liz Miller. "It will be nice not to get on a plane to go to the game." 
Indiana is a familiar foe to the 1997 squad. The Hoosiers routed the Irish in the Sun Devil Classic over a month ago, handing Notre Dame a 10-1 Joss in their seaso.n-opener. Notre Dame will look to turn things around in their home­opener, though. 
"We've made major steps since our first games, especial­
~OTRE DA~E.GOLF COURSE 
--Rockne 11v1:emorial Student daily 9 hole rate $5 A.dd'l 9 $3 Stu.dent Clu.b Rental $5 · Call 63 1-64:25 f~r Tee Times 



ARE YOU MOTIVATED? 
EASY TO TALK TO? 
WILLING TO HELP OTHERS??? 

IF SO, THEN WE NEED YOU!!! 
The Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education is looking for Peer Educators for the 1997-98 academic year. 
Peer educators are students from a wide range ofperspectives, who volunteer their time to help shape positive norms regarding alcohol, drugs and other related issues. 
Peer educators will be involved in Freshman Orientation as well as presenting programs in residence halls throughout the year. 
f you would like to make a difference ...please pick up an applicatio at the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education 1 Mezzanine Level, Lafortune or Call X7970 for more information. 
ly in terms of our consistence defensively. We know that we have to be ready for every play, every ball," Miller said. 
Improved defensive play has given the Irish confidence, which has translated into an offensive outburst as well. 
"We're now hitting over .300 as a team, much improved from the beginning of the sea­son," said Miller. 
Senior Katie Marten leads the team in batting average and slugging percentage, while fellow captain Meghan Murray has found her stroke again, contributing to the potent Irish offense of late.· 
The rest of the team has taken the pressure off of the seniors with powerful bats of their own. 
"Kara McMahon has been 
Coach Liz Miller has been pleased with the efforts of third basemen • Kara McMahon (above) at the plate this season. 
Campus View Apartments  
We are now taking applications for NEXT YEAR!!  -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air -24 hour laundry  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartments Available for your selection For more information, call272-1441 Summer leases Available  


• 
getting key hits, and Jenn Giampaolo's bat is coming around," Miller said. 
Aside from the veterans' con­trib\ltions, freshman Sara Mathison's offensive display during the recent road trip has pi~Ced the Irish. 
She flexed her muscles, pounding out two homers dur­ing the campaign. 
"Sara has been hitting the ball very well for us," said Miller. 
Hurlers Kelly Nichols and . Angela Bessolo will take the mound for the Irish today, with the first game scheduled to be­gin at 2 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
As they look to avenge the early season five-inning loss to Indiana, the one thing they are sure of is that it feels good to be home. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
HOUSE •HOMEPAGE BWAY CLASS DINNER 
•WERSTORM NITE AT THE SNITE ABROAD MAIUNGS 
GAME •BOB DAVIE RING BLESSING 
•NCAA AT BW·3S 
•JPW MASS COLLECTION 

We'd also like to thank the memben of the Junior Class Council for all of their hard work and dedication this year: 

Pete Blake •Dan Burllfiend •Eileen Burkhalter •Keith Dillhofl •Connie Dougherty •Aaron Dunn •Kellie Flanagan •Bob Rannety •Kelly Gleason •Meggan Hempleman •Kim Horton •Kathy Jackson •Joyce Januzik •Jean Kenol• Mark Hoss • Jen Mason •Alan McWalters •Thomas Meyer •Pete Moriarty 
•Sean Murphy •Erek Nass •Debbie Prisinzano •Andrea Ray •Amy Rybak •Brian Schultz •Melinda Sinclair •Brian Smith • 
MatyStephens •lanyWard •Annemarie Welch •Lauren W"lllfelfield •Sizabeflt Wons • Zahn •Gail Advisor 

-

---____________; 


------~ 
' 
page 18 The Observer • CARTOON QUEST Tuesday, March 25,1997 

W:
t9. will follow in the path ofDave Kellett and Ed Leader as the next cartoonist for The Observer? Each of these candidates has his eyes set on being the next. And the decision is up to you. That's right: your vote will determine which comic strip appears in The Observer. 
In each issue this week and next week, a selection from each of the four comic strips will appear here. Next week, a ballot will be provided at the bottom of this page so that you can submit your vote for your favorite comic strip. 
KEVIN TROVINI 

) 
How obou-t.'this 'What if ~he one . •• lina Mc.G...ire1 Y'lo? I able -ro 
(often 

_ at the · Dining Hall) and tends to ~ring hiS unwilling roomie along for the ride. '/ihereas 
room -Fro"'

{\.J:s lOVe life isperpett.J~ly cursed, his suave roomnfate has [IO problem with the oppoSite _ __ . two .soon deVelop a :I-t'll ruin strong f~ertdShip with Amy, a cha atic biochem major, and my whole 
Wllliarri;*t!W~ nerd across the hall. Other characters include: 
Glas.sf

the ROTC gu ... _Stadium Usher, Skippy the Squirrel,. the DART tnachin ·-d the Talking Ethanol Cloud. · · 
w Kevin Trovinl 
THE LILYPAD JEREMIAH CONWAY 
Do you releo..se fhe or o-dr.vc>,t(. ~ l~ser ~r\J.of The strip is about Ron,Pete1 and everyone els~:§:;prazy lives here at ND. ·· •· •+b
Methin5~ I W\~o.n, 
The Stars o' the Show: 
l"e<>..lly now. 
Ron is pretty delusional, and Pets tends to be more sane, as
~ou're 
0 does Lissa when compared to her roommate, Jen;> Lissa is an
.P he\ pless 1 
engineer, and Jsn is an architecture major; although that may

• change. Crazy Bill is the demented next-door neighbor of Ron and Pete; he's pretty messed up. The Two Giantqguirrels t:l.~~ friends of Crazy Bill on the Bookstore Basketball team; Lehnyi"a chupacabra, lives in Pete's pillow. 
Jeremiah Conway 
vs. Western Michigan 5:00pm EckStadium 
Notl'e Dame Softball 

vs. Indiana (2) 2:00pm .. Ivy Field 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 


DAN SULLIVAN 
Men About Campus is essentially a comic strip about that -a guy's perspective about Notre Dame. It covers every­thing, including ND "dating," the dining hall, SYRs, football games, the leprechaun and the weather. Of course, the strip will contain women -as for the moment the guys are just moving into their new place. And like the dorms, all campus comics have to contend with parietals, too. 
The comic strip also will address some of the politics of NO, such as the stance on gay and lesbian students, the ever-Increasing number of sports edifices on campus, along with the basic humor which a group of four unique men even­tually come up with. 
Dan Sullivan 
JOHN HLAVATY 
page 19 

The Observer • TODAYTuesday, March 25, 1997 MIXED MEDIA 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT 
YOU KNOW I DIDN'T USE.
DE.SCRLBE HOW YOU USED 
"TOiAL QUALITY" I'D
"TOT"l QUP-.LITY" t'\E.T\-IODS ~ ':', 
1-\AVE. TO LIE
ON '<OUR LAST PRO~ECT ~ 0! WE.1RE APPLYING FOR THe ~ 
0 
~ 

CROSSWORD 
t Anesthetize, in Gainsborough38 Satellite -­a way 
fmgeries4 Some chain 
39 Bunk sa lee cream parlor 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUULE 

42 So-so grades 4Siran's capitaltopp.?rMiller chart"You 

49 Stinking rich 27 Reverent 
so Shopping 29 Lets down binges 
JEANE DIXON 

JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Kccpin!,! your enol while others act ..;tressed will heir make great career strides. Too manv hours hchind a uc'k or on the couch will leave you out or shape. Set aside time for exer­cise. Romance could tly nut the win­dow if you appear indifferent or neglcctl'ul. Extra cash could make 
travel a very altraclivc oplion ncxl fall. Being too sluhhorn ahout minor 
issues could cause you trouble in December. Ease up and start the new year right. Delay s'1gning a con­tract that could restrict your options. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actre" Sarah Jessica Parker, singer Aretha Franklin,
MIKE PETERS 
author Gloria Stcincm. ligurc skater Dehi l:homas. ARIES <March 21-April 19): Linle will be going on at work this 
mornin!.!. Sc11ll' for small :.u..-com­
plishm~nts until the pace acceler­ates. Evening could he the hest part or your dav. 
.TAU_R.US <April 20-May 20): Get on with your plan. even if a co­work'er is grouchy. Fortunate inllu­L'IH.:cs surround any career or busi­ness discussions. Money will come front new sources hoth here and abroad. 
(;EMINI tMav 21-.lunc 20): Sla\ calm and eJ;IIcctc<.l c\'en it' :-.Pilll'lllll' lrics (O ruffle your (calhCI"S. .IPh k<JUS can he round 011 the Inter­Ill'!. Think ahoul nrrcrin!.! your scr­\ IL't'" It) a prtHillllCIII ltlc;i fig.un.~.

SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-.luly 22J: Yuur enterprising spirit needs a con­
structive outlet. Be choosy. Unless

SADLY 1 MILLARD PASSED 
you tackle a job that requires ,Jhysi­
cal exertion, you could slip into a le~ thargic mood. 

P-.WAY BEfORE HE COULD 
INVENT "THE MILLARD 
LEO <July 23-Aug. 22): Look 
for an opportunity to improve your

BULLI\USH ''HONESTY" 
po~ilion at work. Arrange a meeting
AWARD 
with higher-ups at their earliest con­venience. An authority figure will be impressed by your tenacity. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Catching up on detail work will let you complete an important assign­ment. Love. money and social events all enjoy good vibrations. When choosing between two invita­tions. he thoughtful. 
LIRRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Prof~ its and rewards lie just ahead Cict on the baiJI New ideas will brong good fortune your way. You are on a winning streak where your personal relationships are concerned. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A 
good day for people in education 
and the arts. When your special tal­
ent~ are recognized. share the glory 
with your mate. Be thrifty even if 
your friends arc extravagant. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
:>.I): All sense or sclr~control could 
tly out the window ir a relationship 
goes sour. Guard against overindul­
!.!Cncc and an un.!c to al·t rcck!<.·"slv. 
• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22~Jan. 19): 
Be careful with jointly owned re­
sources. You cannot afford to sur­
render your assets. An evening out­
ing will be a hlast if you choose the 
right companion. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your income or social prestige could 
receive a welcome boost. A long­
cherished goal moves within reach. 
Expand your intellectual horizons 
hy reading a thought-provoking 
hook. 
PISCES (Feb. 19~March 20): 
Your valuables may need extra sectt­
rity now. Put precious jewelry in a 
bank vault. Socializing with a prom­
inent couple could lead to an ex­
citing business opportunity. Tonight, 
project your mind into the psychic 
realm. 
clothing stores 

a Video game hub t4 Play the part tsZone t s Stops the tape 
temporarily t7 "Little" 
extraterrestrials t9 Passe 20 Had a bug 21 lnspirationalist 
Norman Vincent 

23 Before, m verse 24 Home on the 
Black Sea 26 Smart-alecky 28 Pop duo with 
the album "Swamp Ophelia" 
40 Actress Anderson 4t Newton or Stern 
43 Actress Thurman and others 
44 Small choir 
46 Outfielder's cry 
47 Oct. precursor 
48 Drinks with gin, 
Cointreau and lemon julce st Greeting at sea 52 Undignified landing 56 Hardly Mr. Right 
59 Facilitates 62 Unpaid factory -worker 

order 69 Two-wheeler 10 Sometime 
theater Iunder: 
Abbr. 7t Be at 72 French holy 
women: Abbr. 73 Blow it 
DOWN 
t Crazy (over) 2 Pungent 3lnscribed 
column 4 Leader called 
Mahatma s Tattoo place 6 Coop sound 1 Psychologically 
all there 8 Noted Harlem hot spot. with "The" 9 Durham's twin 
crty to Bossy's chew tt Connors 
opponent t2--~John t3 Isabella d'--­
(Titian subject)
ta Continental trading org. 22 Khyber Pass traveler 25 1941 Glenn 


30 · L~: me repeat 
31 Where the 
Vatican is 32 Grant hop 33 Method: Abbr. 34 Leisurely 35 Ness, for one 36 One doing a 
con job? 37 Michelangelo masterprece 
53 Delensive tennis shot 54 Have--to pick 

ss One who's not playing seriously 
56 Home for Ia familia 57 Go up against 58 Word of 

warning GO Drops off 6t Cut 63 Pre-1917 ruler ss Fruit juice 67 Hawaiian musrc 
maker 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute) 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 

.. 
-~-----------~--. 
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, March 25, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Lady Irish handle Colonials, dance to Cincinnati 
Louis in 1978.
Gaither boosts 
• IRISH INSIGHT
"We worked really hard and definitely earned itND to third tonight," Irish high-point Final Four a player Katryna Gaither said.tourney upset "We finally get a trip to the reality despite Final Four. It's un­
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 

believable." bumpy journeyNotre Dame is just the 
It has not alwavs been anthird sixth-seeded team inIt wasn't as dramatic as 

easy road for the Notre Damethe women's NCAA tourna­their second round win over women's basketball team.

ment history to travel all the
Texas. It didn't involve Although its 31-6 recordway down the road to the

three-point shot heroics and 
might not

Final Four.
a 22-0 run like their come­
rel'lcct too Betsy Baker 
"What a great team,"back win over Alabama. 
many road Associate Sports 

head coach Muffet McGrawBut it was the win that put blocks, there Editor
raved. "You can neverthe Notre Dame women's 
have befm ------­

count them out. Everybody
basketball team into the 

has played so some pot holes.
well togeth­
Final Four for the first time 
You know. those obstacles in

er."
ever. 
the road that might go urino­"This is really exciting,"After upset victories over 
ticed but can be equally as

assistant coach Kevinthe third-seeded Texas 
damaging.

McGuff said. "Plenty of
Longhorns and the second­
Take, for instance, the

times we could have beenseeded Alabama Crimson 
example of tho 1995 Irish

knocked out, but our kids
Tide, the Irish added fifth­
squad. llead coach Muffet

have just kept battling andseeded George Washington McGraw said to ESPN vcstor­battling. They have been soto their list with a blue-col­day. that they wore as 'talent­
resilient and now we're
lar 62-52 victory in 
ed as tlw loam she will load togoing to Cincinnati to take

Columbia, South Carolina. 
the Final Four on Friday, butour shot."

The win clinched the East 
because they did not h'avP a
Morgan got things goingRegional championship and conference like the Big Eastright from the opening tap.

sent the Irish to Cincinnati behind them, they did not re­After Gaither won the jump

this Friday for the Final 
ceive the same recognition.

ball, Morgan took
Four where they will play a pass Or how about the fact that
from Rosanne Bohman and
the defending champions, now that they have finallycanned a three before five

Tennessee. 
made it into a big-name con­

seconds had run off the"We struggled a bit 
ference, they have constantly

clock.
tonight," said Beth Morgan been forced to sit in second

The Blue and Gold
who bad 15 points on 5 for place because of the seemingly

crashed the boards and
10 shooting, "but we were 
unbeatable Conneetirut

used a 28-19 first half edge
able to come through in the 
Huskies.

in that category to overcomeend." 
Or that despite the talent­

12 first half turnovers. TheThe Irish will head to the 
laden team the Irish boast,

squad went into the locker
Final with

Four a 31-6 thoy have boon plagued with
room with a 32-25 lead.
record and with a lot of 
injuries, even to the point atGaither, who was named
emotion and excitement. 
which tlw Irish had to playthe East Regional tourna­

They are the first Irish bas­
team manager Christy Grady

ment MVP, was simply too
ketball team in the Final during tlw Big East tourna­

much for the Colonials as The Observer/Rob Finch 
Four since Digger Phelps 

Senior Katryna Gaither drained 25 points and grabbed 16 rebounds, propelling
took the men's squad to St. 

see BIG DANCE I page 16 the Irish into the Final Four for the first time in Notre Dame history . see JOURNEY I page 16 
• fENCING 

Krol, women lead fencers to second at NCAAs 
By DAVID FRICK Notable individual performances included a Sports Writer sixth place finish by senior foil captain Jeremy Siek, a third place by Lester, a fifth place by 
Four months ago, the fencing team made a sophomore sabrnist Luk!l LaValln, a sncond promise that they would compete for a national place by sophomore foilist Sara Walsh, and a title. Though they fell short by a small· margin, fifth place by sophomore foilist Myriah Brown. the squad can hold no shame in finishing as Nevertheless, the day belonged to Krol. A runner-up for the second consecutive yr,ar to native of Vancouver, Canada, Krol has compet­three-time champion Ponn State. ed internationally, and won the title of .Junior 
By the third day of competition, the team Canadian Champion. Krol blended this ~~xperi­found itself in fourth place, trailing by 180 ence and immense talent to capture the indi­points. But the will of a champion found itsr,lf vidual title over 1996 champion Nicole Dygert determined to make up the deficit. of St. Johns. 
"We were down, but never gave up," said The match came down to the final touch, head coach Yves Auriol. ''I'm very proud of with Krol winning 15-14. Krol was unavailable this team. They gave their all." for comment as she will be competing in Spain 
The team battled on the third day in order to in an international tournament this week. pull itself within 130 points and place itself in a Though the final team score did not turn out position to win. The third place finish by as wished, there was much the team could be senior sabre captain Bill Lester proved influen­proud of. A touch here and another there, and tial to placing the team within striking dis­the Irish would have had their first crown since tance. the 1994 campaign. Only through the enor­
With the men's events completed, the strong mous talent of Penn State would the team be women's team would be left to the challenge of denied. making up the points. The women came "We would've liked to win the champi­through with a first place finish by freshman onships, but you can't make mistakes when epeeist Magda Krol, as well as strong finishes you're up against Penn State," said Auriol. by both foilists. . Due to travel difficulties, the team members 
However, the margin proved too large even were unavailable for comment when the story for these impressive finishes, as the team fell a went to press. More coverage and players mere six bouts short of beating mighty Penn reactions will be included in tomorrow's edi­


State. tion. 

vs. Tennessee at NCAA Final Four, Cincinnati, March 28 
.. 
vs. Indiana 
Today, 2 p.m . 
Men's vs. Hobart, March 29 vs. Western Michigan, 

r Today, 5 p.m. Q) 
• Women's Lax keeps on winning 

vs. Purdue, ~ March 29 ~ see page 15
......

., Track and Field at •Swimmers compete at NCAAs Sun Devil Invitational and see page 13
Purdue Invitational, March 29 
J:: ~ 







