

Monday, December 8, 1997• Vol. XXXI No. 66 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
London Program increases student enrollment 
By SARAH HANSEN expand substantially the num­neering, business administra­ed to direct the reorganization. international studies. News Writer ber of students able to study in tion and science colleges which Assuming the title of director of The London curriculum has London." previously haven't been able to the undergraduate London pro­changed as a result of Gutting's 
After a massive reorganiza­The University's new 
gram, Gutting plans to vast experience as a consultant tion effort within Notre Dame's London facility, con­'WE HOPE TO INVOLVE maintain the populari­and reviewer of humanities and selective London program, structed in 1906 and ty of the London pro­study abroad programs at other
MORE STUDENTS 
nearly 120 students may gain located at 1-4 Suffolk St., gram while further prominent United States univer­
WITH MAJORS ... WHICH
the opportunity to study abroad originally served as the developing its academ­sities. in 1998, up from the present home of the Oxford and PREVIOUSLY HAVEN'T BEEN ic rigor. Her contributions include the maximum enrollment of 90 stu­Cambridge Men's Club "Dr. Gutting has requirement of three in a series
ABLE TO SEND LARGE NUM-
dents. and most recently was done a phenomenal of one-credit courses in ballet, "It seems a logical time to do occupied by the British. BERS TO LONDON.' job taking the Arts and art, music, opera and theater. this," said Father Timothy School of Osteopathy. Assuming Gutting's position of 
FATHER TiMOTHY SCULLY Letters program
Scully, vice president and senior The reorganization through a difficult director of undergraduate stud­SENIOR ASSOCIATE PROVOST OF THE UNIVERSITY early period to its pre­
associate provost of the plan also includes a more ies in London will be Paul University. diverse curriculum, sent national reputa­Bradshaw, professor of theology 
"In the fall of 1998, we will enabling students from colleges send large numbers to London," tion for high academic stan­at the University. open an outstanding new facility other than Arts and Letters to Scully explained. dards and popularity among "It's helpful finally to have a in London on the northwest cor­attend. Anastasia Gutting, head of the students as a most rewarding permanent faculty person in ner of Trafalgar Square. With "We hope to involve more stu­Arts and Letters London pro­experience," said Michael London to direct matters there," this new space, we intend to dents with majors in the engi-gram for over a decade, is slat-Francis, assistant provost for added Francis. 
• ON OTHER CA!V1PU$£S 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 
Vandalism on campus similar to crime at IUSB 
By HEATHER COCKS to stay in touch with IUSB as News Editor • the investigation proceeds. "We're actually thinking 
As part of the investigation that the vandalism here [seat­into Thanksgiving break's slashing and paint vandalism] vandalism on campus, Notre was two separate acts," Dame Security/ Police consid­Rakow said. "If people were 
prepared to damage a lot of things outside with paint, why wouldn't they have done that inside as well? So we're prob­ably looking at two unrelated incidents here." 
He said several students South Bend. telephoned the office with tips; 
On Nov. 22. vandals slashed in an effort to find more clues, seats in one of !USB's audito­Notre Dame Security plans to rium classrooms, cutting up contact people that it knows 
ASIAN 
cords and projector screens, remained on campus during according to Marty Gursey of the Thanksgiving holiday, he ALLURE IUSB's security division. added. 
"We have been in contact Any students with informa­Student models of with Notre Dame police to tion about the vandalism all races and eth­share information, but there's should contact police at any nicities turned the 
Washington Hallnothing yet to suggest a con­time, Rakow said, offering the 
stage into a runway
nection between the two Notre Dame Security Web site 
on Saturday night for
events," Gursey said. as a method of giving anony­
the second annual 
As of Sunday, neither !USB mous tips. 
Asian Allure. The 
nor Notre Dame Security had Called "Silent Watch," stu­program featured pinned down a suspect. dents can submit information members of FASO, 
"I guess we cannot deter­about any campus crime by VSA, lAND and the mine whether there's a con­filling out a form on the Hawaiian Club, who nection until someone is Internet. gave cultural dances 
and presentations. 
caught," said Rex Rakow, The Web address for Silent director of Notre Dame Watch is http://www.nd.edu/ Security, adding that he plans -ndspdl. 


Livingston prompts listeners to address sexuality 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY "In our churches and soci­sexuals," she said. If one is News Writer eties, sex is not dirty, but it was homosexual, "the issue then put in us by God himself," becomes one of how can I live, 
As part of the ongoing effort Livingston said. She also accept and embrace my sexual­to further the dialogue of emphasized a desire to learn ity with integrity." issues of sexuality, Patricia about one's own sexuality Genital sexuality, Livingston Livingston delivered a lecture when discussing the issue of claimed, is an aspect of sexual­at Saint Mary's College last sexual preoccupation as part of ity which involves desires, Thursday to help people growing up. urges and physical reactions. improve their understanding of Livingston then focused on Livingston emphasized that the various aspects and feel­three aspects of sexuality: pri­many people question the place ings that go along with sexuali­mary, genital and affective. of this aspect of sexuality in ty. When thinking of primary sex­their lives. 
Livingston, a counselor, uality, Livingston encouraged "All of us will have different nationally known speaker and people to realize what it means seasons and cycles; but culture, former associate director of the to be male or female. hormones and life experience Center for Continuing "We must learn that our bod­all play an important part in Formation in Ministry at Notre ies are not suitcases we carry our genital sexuality," Dame, began the lecture by around, but rather they are Livingston said. introducing what she referred who we are," Livingston said. Finally, she spoke about dif­to as the "framework" of the Livingston also asked meme­ferent ways that people evening. This framework was bers of the audience to address express closeness towards each based on a quote by James their sexual orientation. "We other as part of affective sexu­Carroll that says, "The yearn­need to ask ourselves whether ality. She added that many ings of our hearts are mes­we experience ourselves more sages from God." as homosexuals or as hetero-
see SEXUALITY I page 4 



a a 
page 2 
• iNsmE Cm.uMN 
Leave Poor Matt Alone 
Socrates: "If we harm a horse, do we make it 
better, or worse?" 
Polemarchus: "Worse, by Zeus!" 
Some say that the novelty of ousting student 
body president Matt David Freddoso Griffin from office will 
Assistant News Editor 
lead many to sign the 
Lingenfelser petition. 
This is true. Once someone starts the ball 
rolling, everyone will think that this is one big 
joke at Griffm's expense. It won't be difficult to 
get 50, even 75 percent of the students to sign. 
But does he deserve to be removed? 
The. Scholastic editors say yes, because 
Griffin's alleged antics make him a poor "vox 
populi." Because people do not take him seri­
ously, they say, students have "lost their voice" 
in their ongoing war of words against the 
administration. 
Then again, who is at war? Is student gov­
ernment really supposed to be a political body 
which represents the students' opinions before 
the "powers that be?" 
I answer: No. Student government officials 
represent no one other than themselves. 
Sure, we elected them. (Or at least, those 
who bothered to vote elected them.) That does 
not change the fact that there is only one kind 
of person who runs for or becomes involved in 
student government. Our officers, for the most 
part, all have the same ideas and the same 
opinions. They form what is essentially a uni­
versity-funded clique. Now and then, instead of 
going to Bridget's together to get trashed, they 
try to get in the administration's face and lead 
a rally about something or other. 
These are our leaders. 
The ideal student government, on the other 
hand, has just two functions. It sets a virtuous 
example which leads the students to admire 
their officers, and then it gives the students 
perks for which they are grateful. President X, 
whom we elect next term, should be a good 
looking, cheerful guy (or gal) who just shows 
up everywhere demonstrating his (or her) gen­
uine magnanimity by giving us neat stuff, like 
kazoos, extended dining hall hours, etc. 
President X would have no political agenda. 
If there are rallies on campus, he will be in the 
library studying to get straight A's. He really 
would be our representative, though not in any 
political sense -a sort of poster boy whom we 
would trust and whose fortunes we would 
count as our own. He would be like a Pericles 
or Lincoln without a war to fight (hopefully bet­
ter looking than Lincoln, though). 
If you are in student government, then you 
probably think I am joking. But I respond: 
People would probably take my model of the 
Student Union at least as seriously as they take 
yours, if not much more. 
Instead of picking people who have great 
"political" ideas like the demolition of Stepan 
Center, maybe we will just choose "the good 
man" to rule in the next election: highest GPA. 
best character. You really can't go wrong if you 
elect someone like that. 
Ijust hope that someone from outside the 
clique tries to run for office this time. 
Now, if you have read this far, you are prob­
ably wondering why I began with a quote from 
Plato. Here's why. Look at the accusations 
against Griffin: the drinking, skipping Mass, 
skipping his retreat, mismanagement, etc. 
If all this is really true (and I hope it's not), 
then we shouldn't impeach the poor guy. Just 
let him be: he's probably miserable enough as 
it is, and he poses no real threat to anyone. 
Don't harm the poor guy: it can only make 
him worse. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Sean Smith  Nate Wills  
Sarah Hiltz  Graphics  
Bill Uniowski  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Brian Kessler  Betsy Baker  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Jamie Heisler  Meg Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
, <t' a ,. .• .... • .• -... "-It ..... a .0. • • 

The Observer • INSIDE Monday, December 8, 19"97 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Texas police bust A&M freshmen for vandalism prank 
AUSTIN, Texas 
While the Longhorns weren't able to stop Texas A&M University from win­ning the Nov. 28 football game, UT police were able to stop four Aggies from vandalizing the campus early Tuesday. 
UT police officials said Thursday they won't press charges against four members of the Texas Aggie Corps of Cadets arrested outside the Lila B. Etter Alumni Center after attempting to vandalize the building's statue of Bevo and steal the Texas flag above it. 
A UT police officer apprehended A&M students Ben Rogers, Pete Underwood, George Myers and Jordan Essary at 3:20 a.m. before they were able to vandalize the brass Bevo stat­ue with graffiti, said UT Police Captain Silas Griggs. 

The four freshman corps members "This happens every year," Griggs "It's been done. They need to come -or fish, as they're called in College said. "It's something we look for and up with something new," said Station -told police they were going expect. Not just with A&M, but any Sheffield. 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CAUFORN!A 
Former student to be tried for murder 
LOS ANGELES 
A judge ruled Thursday that there is sufficient evidence 
to proceed with the trial of Linda Chu, the former USC stu­
dent charged with killing her newborn baby last spring. 
Chu, who was enrolled as a sophomore majoring in busi­
ness last spring, stipulated that she was the biological 
mother of the baby in the pre-trial meeting held in the Los 
Angeles County Court building, said prosecuting deputy 
district attorney Cheryl Newman-Gaines. The body of the 
newborn baby was found in a plastic grocery bag in the 
trash receptacle of Century Apartments on the morning of 
May 7 by a USC maintenance worker. Chu allegedly gave 
birth to the baby by herself in her apartment at Century 
after concealing her pregnancy by wearing baggy cloth­
ing. Evidence that the baby was alive at birth and then 
strangled was presented at the two-hour pretrial hearing, 
said Los Angeles Police Department Det. Steven Hales, 
supervisor of the Child Abuse Unit. Chu's former room­
mate at Century Apartments identified several items found 
with the baby. 
• YAlE UNIVERSITY 

Billing errors plague med school 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
A glitch-plagued accounting system coupled with com­
plicated health care billing practices has caused the Yale 
School of Medicine another headache. Last Tuesday, 
Danielle Baum-Smith testified in Hartford that the medical 
school billed her more than $11,000, despite the fact that 
she received Medicaid and was not responsible for the 
charges. Baum-Smith had received a letter asking for pay­
ment for the treatments which Yale provided between 
1988 and 1994. Eventually she received a court order 
declaring that $252 be deducted from her paycheck. Yale 
was able to resolve the ongoing dispute only half a year 
ago, and the University returned the money, Yale's direc­
tor of public afl'airs B. Jay Cooper said. As a response to 
this and other billing errors, Yale will completely revamp 
its billing system for the second time in four years. 
school we play. But I'm sure our stu­dents do the same thing too." 
Griggs said no charges would be filed against the corps members, cit­ing that there was no monetary or substantial loss to the property. 
Essary said the corps members were not at the alumni center for more than 10 minutes before the officer arrived. He said he and his friends planned to write the 27-16 score with Brasso, a spray used to shine metal. 
"The whole intention was to Brasso the score on, like what we did when we won 13-0," Underwood said, refer­ring to an incident in 1916 when Aggies successfully branded the score 13-0 onto the live UT mascot. 
But Neil Sheffield, a UT senior in architectural engineering, called the attempted prank unoriginal. 

• WAKE fOREST UNIVERSITY 
10 numbers appear on Internet 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 

Information recently acquired by the Old Gold and Black newspaper indicates that student identification numbers were available over the Internet for an unknown amount of time. The ID numbers are no longer available. Reportedly, the information became available when campus personnel inadvertently changed the file attributes of a file named "itcpq.txt," accidentally mak­ing the information accessible over the Internet. Anyone entering a student name into the university home page's search engine several weeks ago would have received the "itcpq.txt" file as a possible hit. Clicking on the file name would have then revealed the last names, identifi­cation numbers and card numbers of every student on campus in addition to those of many faculty members. Such numbers are used to keep track of expense accounts and meal plans, tracking the fate of millions of dollars of students' money. Students have obtained the information at least twice, as the Old Gold and Black has received two identical copies of the file in question. 
• fLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 
New policy protects animal rights 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

In the near future, you'll need Florida State University's permission if you want to use chickens at student events. After chickens were killed at a fraternity function last spring, Kathy Keen, president of FSU's chapter of Students for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, joined Edward Dandrow, a student senator and former senate president, and FSU administrators to create an animal rights com­mittee. "That incident triggered me to think that this shouldn't be allowed to happen," Keen said. The commit­tee crafted a provision that would bar students and stu­dent organizations from using animals for anything except educational purposes. "Obviously, a fraternity couldn't just bring chickens because they thought it went with the theme," Keen said. " ... (People) couldn't have a rodeo or an alligator wrestling contest on the Union Green." 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Monday, Dec. 8.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

r---/ 
I 
Monday Tuesday 
Wednesda~, ~ 
+.:::·.:::· 


© 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L B &:) [!}] 0 . [ZJ ~ (} ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
ViR AR..<IN'JRfArl PrA.<:~ 

Aspen 35 18 Dallas 66 46 Manhattan 46 29 Baltimore 47 29 Detroit 37 26 Omaha 34 27 Boston 44 27 Juneau 35 32 Phoenix 60 42
~,~,~~~~(f ~ &S1 
Charlotte 46 35 Key West 73 66 Pittsburgh 38 28
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cincinnati 36 33 Los Angeles 60 48 Seattle 45 37
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 



Monday, December 8, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• STUDENT AcADEMIC CouNcn. 
Saint Mary's to participate in world-wide College Bowl 
SECURITY BEAT 
Crime Stoppers offers $1,000 for information 
Observer Staff Report tinued. 
South Bend Area Crime faculty and staff cars parking in Stoppers, Inc., has joined the University lots, along with build­investigation of the Nov. 29 ings, benches and other areas, campus vandalism by offering were defaced over the up to $1,000 for information Thanksgiving holiday, and leading to the arrest of the per­University officials are continu­son or persons responsible for ing their investigation of the the acts of vandalism. matter. 
"Our Security/Police organiza­Anyone with information tion is investigating the incident regarding the vandalism should with the call 288­utmost 'OUR SECURITY/POLICE ORGA-STOP or 1­
diligence, NIZATION IS INVESTIGATING 
800-342­and we STOP. are most THE INCIDENT WITH THE UTMOST Callers will 
apprecia-DILIGENCE.' be given a tive of code and Crime can remain Stoppers' FATHER WILLIAM BEAUCHAMP anonymous.assistance 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE A n Yo n e 

in oll'ering 
VNIVERSIIT wishing to t h i s contact reward," Notre Dame 
said Father William Security/Police directly regard­Beauchamp, executive vice ing the incident may call 631­president of the University, in a 5555. 
recent press release. People with information can 
"The crime was an unprece­also get in touch with Security dented invasion of our campus, electronically with e-mail at which is not only our place of ND.ndspd.l@nd.edu or by click­study and work, but also home ing on "Silent Watch" on the to many thousands of us -stu­World Wide Web at dents, faculty and staff," he con-http://www.nd.edu/-ndspd.l. 
And that's why they call it the blues ... 
-Blues Festival 1997 ­
M
usicians let their emotions flow at Friday night's annual Student Union Board­sponsored Blues Festival. The event, which took place in the LaFortune Ballroom, fea­tured performers including Christian Parilla, Stomper Bob and the Off the Wall Blues Band with Dave Meyers who traveled from Chicago to be a part of the event. 
The Observerffhi Link Choknacki 



By KARA KEZIOS the issues discussed at the Saint News Writer Mary's Student Academic Council last Tuesday. A kick-off for the January Under the guidance of SAC College Bowl contest was among member Genevieve Morrill, this 

Are you looking for cluster computers late at night, but your favorite cluster is closed? Don't forget that the OIT has computers available 24 hours daily in the following locations: 
*CCMB 210  25 Mac, 10 Sun  
DeBartolo 133  38 Mac, 40 Windows  
*Fitzpatrick 177  99 Sun, 12 Mac  
*Nieuwland 203  52 Sun  
*Nieuwland 132  12 Mac, 12 SGI  
*Riley 211  15 Mac  

*You might need to enter a door code to en­ter these clusters. If you need to know a door code, bring your valid ND, SMC, or Holy Cross I D to any staffed cluster and ask the cluster consultant for the code. 

is the first year Saint Mary's will participate in the competition, which is played at colleges and universities throughout the world. 
In the contest, teams answer trivia questions relating to such topics as sports, math, history and current events. The winning team goes on to compete in a regional competition held Feb. 20-22. 
The Saint Mary's region covers most Indiana and Illinois 
1998-99 Assistant Rector Applications 
for University Residence Facilities Are Now Available 

Completed Applications must be submitted by February 18, 1998. 
For more information, call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
schools, including Purdue, Notre Dame, Valparaiso, the University of Illinois and Indiana University. 
The winner of the regional competition advances to nation­als in April at the University of Texas-Dallas. The winner of this round goes to England to com­pete in the All-Star tournament which will be televised in Britain. 
Student government officials and faculty will compete in the kick-off Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium -"buzzers and all," according to SAC chair Lori McKeough. Students are especially encouraged to come to the event if they are interested in signing up to compete in the contest. 
"We're all excited about this competition. We want to give everyone a chance to show off what they know. It will be a lot of fun and maybe bring a little bit of campus rivalry," McKeough said. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, December 8, 1997 
• AUSTRALIA 



Chutes fail, two Americans die 
Clinton threatens use 
Associated Press 
Sydney, ~YSTilALIA 

Two Americari'si;a;nd an Austrian attempting a sky dive at the South Pole died Sunday when their chutes failed to open properly, sending them plummeting to the ice. 
The victims were among six sky divers on a jump orga­nized by Adventure Network International, which has been flying tourists to the South Pole since 1988; 
A 36-year-old Seattle resi­dent, Steve Mulholland, was among those killed, Seattle 
media reported.•Bis girlfriend, 
Beth Melius, tol PosHntelU · · ···  e Seattle e h~ard  
about Mti  ...... . .  d~ath  
from his par¢il,ts i  dfana,  

who were contacted by com~ pany officials.· 
Mulholland was a former employee ofAntarctic Support Associates, the civilian con­tractor that st;pplies and staffs 
U.S. Antarctic bases, and was one of the organizers of the South Pole skydivtng trip. 
"It was Jllst asky dive~ Fbr him that's a Walk in the park. He jumps off 300-foot objects. This was nothing leven wor­

ried about," Melius told Seattle's KIRO Television. ./ll pal}y refused to
rele .. tis of the victims pe.Ud notification or rela­
tives. 

All the jumpers were men, Michael McDowell of Adventure Network said by telephone, 
The six jumped from a Twin Otter aircraft at about 8,500 feet, McDowell said. 
Two ~itthe ground without their p~rti,chutes ever open­ing, and the chute on the third did nOLopen fully, McDowell said. 

of nuclear weapons 
Associated Press bombers, land-based missiles 
and missile submarines -and 

WASHINGTON basic reliance on nuclear 
Turning U.S. nuclear policy weapons as a mainstay of toward a emerging threat, national security. P r e s i d e n t ,.....,.-,--,..._,,.--_____, The document breaks new Clinton has 
ground by abandoning the con­decided the cept that the United States United States should plan for a protractedwill consider nudear war that it could "win" using nuclear and by allowing nuelear tar­weapons geters to expand the list of against potential targets that could be attackers """'.....a.__..,.__ struck in China in the unlikely who hit Clinton event of war with that nation. American "We felt that the concept of forces with chemical or biologi­protracted nuclear war never cal weapons. had a great deal of credibility," 
Sexuality 
continued from page 1 
times, the family surroundings in which people were brought up influence the level of affec­tion displayed toward others. 
The ways in which these three aspects of sexuality are interconnected can have either positive or negative influences on a person, according to Livingston. In an example of how affective sexuality influ­ences the primary, Livingston said, "If you are loved, you get more beautiful, there is a light in your eyes, a glowing in your skin, and you walk with a cer­tain grace." 
Livingston then gave another example of how loneliness may oftentimes have a negative effect on people. 
"If we are lonely, we eat peculiarly. It's not about filling your stomach but trying to fill your heart. Also, casual sex often results from feelings of loneliness," Livingston said. 
On the issue of casual sex, Livingston believes that the Catholic Church offers insight. "The best wisdom from the Catholic tradition is that sex is not trivial. It matters. It is meant to be life and lbve-pro­ducing. It is holy," Livingston said, adding that the media often portray the message of sex as trivial. 
In all three areas of sexuality, Livingston said that college provides tremendous pressure in all of the areas. 
"I think college campuses are force fields of hormones," Livingston said. She empha­sized that existing pressures, particularly for women, include looking good, pondering one's career, marriage and issues of sexual orientation. 
After the lecture, students, including Saint Mary's junior Liz Wisniewski, e;~i.pressed approval regarding Living­ston's message. 

"I think she hit so many areas and presented them well. Personally, she hit on a lot of issues I am currently struggling with and offered answers as possible solutions," Wisniewski said. 
Kelly Curtis, a junior at Saint Mary's, said, "Tonight's discus­sion was open and candid. As a way to open up discussion on issues of sexuality, I thought this was an excellent presenta­tion." 
Judy Fean, the director of Campus Ministry, felt that the lecture was another step toward continuing the dialogue on sexuality at Saint Mary's. 
"I do think discussion has been opened, and this is anoth­er way to create an environ­ment in which women can talk about relationships, intimacy and what it means to be a woman," Fean said. 
She added, "At a Catholic col­lege, we are called to seek who we .~re as God's creative peo­ple. 
The policy, made explicit in a classified presidential directive, marks the administration's first instruction to the Pentagon shaping a nuclear strategy against the increasingly worri­some possibility that nations such as Iraq might turn.chemi­cal or biological arsenals against U.S. troops. 
A senior Clinton administra­tion adviser said Sunday the policy conforms with two decades of White House state­ments on the possible "first use" of nuclear weapons. But it adds presidential weight to the emerging concern about "rogue states" that has replaced the nuclear terror of the Cold War. 
Approved last month by Clinton, principal elements of the "Presidential Decision Directive," or PDD, were reported Sunday by The Washington Post. In many respeets, the directive follows long-standing policy on nuclear weapons, including continued support for the nuclear triad -Hobert Bell, a senior member of Clinton's National Security Council staff, said Sunday in response to reporters' in a 1981 Heagan administration directive. 
"There was an anomaly," Bell said: "The president's own guidance to the Strategic Command ... was unrealiz­able." 
Senior military officers have been warning that arms reduc­tion agreements no longer make such a conflict even fea­sible, let alone winnable. As a result, Clinton ordered his reassessment last February. 
Worries about all-out nuclear war have been replaced by concerns that an adversary such as Iraq might use ch!~mi­cal or biological weapons against U.S. forces. 
As a result, Bell said, the presidential directive discusses in far greater detail than in past directives responses the United States should have available. 
guide to cam us 


aun 
r 

The halls listed here, open their laundry facilities to non-hall residents on these specified times and dates. 
Thanks to participating Rectors, Rectresses and Halls. 
Compiled by the Gender Issues Committee of Student Government. For more information call Britany at 1-7668. 
keough 
anytime 
pw 
tuesdays from 2-Spm 

breen-phillips 
wednesdays from 7:30-11:30pm 
farley 

anytime 
lyons 

mondays and wednesdays 
walsh 

tuesdays and wednesdays 
cavanaugh 
wednesdays after Spm 
fisher 
anytime 
pe 
anytime 
welsh 
mondays 10am-10pm 

student government 


• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Republicans upset over Reno's decision 
WASHINGTON 

Republicans threatened Attorney General Janet Reno with contempt of Congress on Sunday in connection with her deci­sion to forgo an in de pen­dent counsel's investiga­tion of White House cam­paign fund raising. One GOP senator, Orrin Hatch Reno of Utah, said he's asking FBI director Louis Freeh to bypass Reno, his boss. and investigate allegations of Democratic impropriety in fund raising. "I have no doubt that the political appointees in the department who have been influencing her are doing nothing but protecting the president," Senate Judiciary Committee chairman Hatch said on CBS' "Face the Nation." Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, shot back: "Was it protecting the president when she appointed four independent counsels that all took aim at the White House?" Before the cameras were turned on, Glenn flashed Reno a thumb-to-forefinger OK sign and told her he admired her for standing up to her princi­ples on the independent counsel decision. 
Israeli labor strike settled 
TEL AVIV, Israel 

Hard-pressed union and government nr,gotiators struck a deal Sunday to end a nationwide public-employee strike that had shut down much of Israr,l for five days. The walkout by more than 600,000 workers had stranded travelers at the national airport and closed banks, post offices, kinder­gartens and the TPl Aviv Stock Exchange. llistadrut union leader Amir Peretz announced Sunday that a meeting with Finance Minister Yaakov Neeman produced a compromise over pensions, sending strik­ers back to work late Sunday. The massive protest had been prompted in part by a Finance Ministry proposal to roll back a pension agreement signed by the previous Labor govr,rnment. Army Radio said talks on ways to honor the agreement would begin immediately. The government has already agrer,d to cancel plans to rr,troactively tight­en the conditions of retirement savings plans, the radio said. "I hope the citizens of Israel have understood the need for this strike despite the hardship it brought about," Peretz said. Neeman maintained that "most of the things agreed upon now could have been worked out days ago with­out the need for such a crippling strike." Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he was pleased that the work stoppage was over. Israel TV reported. 
Dow 
]ONES 

Nasdaq: 1,633.90

8,149.13 

+20.48 
NYSE: 
514.31 
+4.87 
S&P 500: 
Composite
983.79 Volume:

+98.97 +10.69 561,000,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
CQMl!~ISY IICKfD ·~~ rtl&t::ICiE i Ci61t::l l!BICf 
TELSCAPE JNTL-WT  TSCPW  72.73  +1.000  2.375  
PROJECTA VISIO-PF  I'JTVP  60.00  +0.750  2.000  
ADV AERODYNAMICS  AASI  52.94  +1.125  3.250  
ACCESS SOLUT·UTS  ASICU  46.15  +0.750  2.375  
liENFh'i/S DEV-WTA  GDCWF  41.67  +0.625  2.125  
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS  
COMMODORE SEPARA  CXDT  38.75  ·0.969  1.531  
SECTOR COMM INC  SECTD  33.33  -0.875  1.750  
PIERCE LEAHY  PLfl  29.83  ·6.563  15.438  
ASD GROUP 1:'\IC  ASDG  22.Q3  -0.813  2.875  
CUMBERLAND  CUMB  21.4.!  ·0.750  2.750  

Russian cargo plane crashes after takeoff 
One hundred tons of aviation fuel ignite; 62 dead, others suffer burns 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 
IRKUTSK, Russia 
The crew of a military cargo jet said nothing before their fiery crash to provide clues to what had gone wrong, Russian safety officials said Sunday, baffled by the disaster in a Siberian city. 
Investigators were studying at least eight scenarios for Saturday's crash -including contaminated fuel or inadequate de-icing in the 5-degree weather -but had few leads as to what actually· happened, said Emergency Situations Minister Sergei Shoigu. 
"W-e're not trying to hide. We're just trying to get you the truth," Shoigu said. 
The jumbo jet-sized air force plane, carrying 23 people, crashed about 20 seconds after takeoff, plowing into a five-story apartment building and clipping an orphanage with its wing. 
"There was fire. Flames. There were no people. Nothing but flames," said Galina Dmitrovna, one of the first emergency workers to arrive. 
On Sunday, 1,400 rescue workers searched the charred wreckage, hunting for more victims beyond the 62 adults and children confirmed dead. 
Twelve people -including four children -had been hospitalized with burns. Many were in serious condition, officials said. 
Pools of aviation fuel dotted the ruined neighborhood, and the stench of burned wood and fuel hung over the area. 
Residents climbed among the frag­ments of their homes, looking for belongings. Ice covered many of the gutted apartments -water from firefighter's hoses had frozen in tem­peratures that fell to 20 degrees below zero overnight. 
One woman, whose husband was missing, sobbed ·as she pointed at the burned shell of her apartment. 
"All I can find are my kitchen knives," she said, begging people to find her husband. 
Most of the remains found so far were minute or badly burned, mak­ing identification almost impossible, investigators said. 
"When I say we have a fragment, it 
a wan ..·.·. 1977 arid ·chained hliil <irJ.ltlfixion . style to. a gll,te for. ?4 
hatkci·-·died·-·M~~ ~ #~ek.. •..-....:.~•!:i:o,., ·J'l 1 

A firefighter hoses the still smoldering remains of a building which was dam~ged byr\.a Russian Antonov AN-124 "Ruslan" cargo plane that crashed into a housmg area in Irkutsk II, an industrial suburb of this Siberian town. 
means we have something like an elbow," a distraught Shoigu said. 
He denied Russian media reports that the pilot radioed he had lost power in two engines just seconds after taking off. 
"They didn't manage to say any­thing about what was happening," he said of the crew. 
The 11-year-old An-124 had just passed a safety inspection in November, officials said. 
Scenarios being considered indud­ed the possibility that the plane was loaded with substandard fuel that caused the engines to stall; the cargo may not have been properly secured and could have broken loose during takeoff; pilot error or improper de­icing. 
The plane's black box flight recorders were recovered and sent to Moscow, but air force officials said it would take days to analyze the data. 
All An-124s have been grounded until the cause could be determined, a Defense Ministry spokesman said. He declined to give his name. 
President Boris Yeltsin ordered an investigation and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin toured the crash scene Sunday, promising aid and new homes for the survivors. Russian military prosecutors opened a criminal investigation. 
--~---I 
~ ~~


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, December 8, 1997 
Dylan, Heston among honorees 
parate political views of Dylan "Throughout a career span­
Kennedy 
and Heston, but praised all the ning nearly four decades, Bob honorees as "artists and Dylan has been perhaps the sin­Americans who have had an gle most influential and contin­
Center honors 
indelible 
ually compelling presence in impact on the American popular music, andachievers performing the foremost songwriter of our arts and the time," says the Kennedy Center 
Associated Press 

national citation. character." Heston. 73, was a radio-gun­
WASIIINGTON 
"Tonight ner on bombers in World War
Political opposites Bob Dylan 
we pay trib­II. He once turned down a
and Charlton Heston shared the 
ute to five chance to run against former
spotlight Sunday as the 
men and Dylan Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif.,
Kennfldy Center honored them 
women who and said he could have won.
for lifetime achievement. 
have spent their lives living "I'd rather play a senator
The rebel rocker and 
their hearts and lifting our than be one," he explained. 
Republican actor-activist sat 
hearts," Clinton said at a pre­Nonetheless, Heston has spent
with centrist President Clinton 
ceremony White House recep­plenty of time around politics.
and his wife, Hillary, as well as 
tion in the festively decorated He campaigns for Republican
three other honorees, soprano 
East Room. candidates and is a spokesman
Jessye Norman, screen siren 
Dylan, whose folk-rock for the National Rifle
Lauren Bacall and ballet star 
embodied the anti-establish­Association. Last month in
Edward Villella, for a gala two­
ment sentiment of the 1960s, Washington state, he helped
and-a-half-hour performance to 
was idolized by young radicals defeat a proposed Jaw that
be aired Dec. 26 on CBS. 
devoted to the civil rights move­would have put new restrictions
Clinton did not note the dis­
ment.. on gun ownership. 
• CAMBODIA 

Leader urges end of violence 
Associated Press Sam Hainsy -who returned to Cambodia last week for the first time since an armfld coup this PHNOM PENH summer -urged Cambodia's warring factions 
A newly returned opposition chief led thou­to call a ceasfl-fire. sands of marchers Sunday in Cambodia's largest He appealed to all politicians to "compromisedemonstration in years, urging an end to the and to resolve all national issues by peaceful 
blood-soaked nation's chronic political violence. means." 
For Sam Rainsy, it was a peaceful, sometimes. In July, Second Premier Hun Sen ousted First joyous repeat of a march that ended in disaster Premier Prince Norodom Ranarridh, ending four last spring, when a grenade attack killed 16 years of relative peace in a country wracked by protesters and wounded more than 100 others, violence since 1970. including Sam Rainsy. Ranarridh and many of his followers remain 
Sunday's procession tripled in size as it wound in exile or in remote border areas, where theythrough the capital's suburbs, drawing in dis­are battling Hun Sen's forces. abled soldiers and saffron-clad monks among Sam Rainsy gathered considerable popular the marchers. At times. supporters bounced the support as an independent critic of the Hun opposition leader on their shoulders. Sen-Ranarridh coalition government, accusing 
At the climax, about 3,000 Cambodians it of widespread corruption and human rights clapped and chanted, "Peace! Peace! Peace!" abuses. 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development Mandatory Meeting for all1998 Summer Intern Applicants Monday December 8, 1997 7:30p.m. Jordan Auditorium, COBA Internships Include: AT&T-England Bank of Estonia-Estonia Honeywell-Russia Goldman Sachs-Hong Drillco Tools-Chile Bank of Ireland-Ireland ... and many more!  

Monday, December 8, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Storms ravage Pacific coast Gore offers plan to 
j IDAHO WYO.
Seven-inch i 
,, ·····,.-.~. f. 

ease global warming 
flood causes death of hiker 
Associated Press 
LAGUNA BEACI-I. Calif. The marquee on the movie theater said it all Sunday: 
"The  Rainmaker"  and  
"Closed."  
This art colony was  busy  

cleaning up a day after a pow­erful Pacific storm dumped more than 7 inches of rain here, flooding mobile home parks and dropping snow in the Southern California moun­tains. 
At least one death is being blamed on the storm. 
In northern Los Angeles County, searchers found the body of missing hiker Karen Tellez. 40, in the snowy Angeles National Forest. The woman became separated from friends Friday and is believed to have died of expo­sure. 
Most injuries from the storm were minor. Rain-related traf­fic accidents Saturday caused two deaths in the Los Angeles an~ a. 
Bulldozers pushed mud out of downtown Laguna Beach, where runoff turned into a torrent that threatened the stability of an oceanfront boardwalk. Light rain fell through the day and was expected to continue through Monday. 
"Everybody was sandbagged and everybody knew it was coming," said Mike Janson, an employee at Johnny Rocket's restaurant. 
"But ... the firefighters said the sandbags \YOuld have had to be 3, 4, 5 feet high to keep what was coming down from the canyon out of the doors." 
:b~ ·-.. ··~j 
i 
i ~~-~ '~·-··-..._

\fW ..•.., ..................
i 
Salt LakeI City
I 
'-NEVADA i I UTAH 
"·
CALIFORNIA'\
·, 
Source: Accu-Weather 
Inches of mud were inside the restaurant. 
In Laguna Beach, sandbags proved useless when the storm saturated hillsides and sent torrents of brown runoff from the steep canyons into the streets and stores of this arts community. 
No damage totals were avail­able, but many stores remained closed Sunday. 
The California Department of Transportation workers used bulldozers and heavy equipment to clear mud from state Highway 133, a main downtown street, which remained closed. 
Laguna Beach, which draws a worldwide audience for its annual arts festival, is no stranger to natural disasters. An October 1993 fire damaged or destroyed 441 homes. Losses were pegged at $528 million. 
The two-day storm flooded or damaged dozens of homes in several counties, including more than 20 in neighboring Riverside County. 
Dozens of people were forced to flee two Huntington 
i 
Las !­Vegas f
...~ I i 
·,, •. 
Grand e Flagstaff Canyon Nat/. Park 
ARIZONA 
0Phoenix 

AP/Wm. J. Castello 
Beach mobile home parks as water rose several feet deep. 
Amtrak's San Diegan train service south of Los Angeles was restored at midmorning Sunday. Flooding had dam­aged tracks between Los Angeles and San Juan Capistrano the day before. 
A new but weaker system moved into the Sierra Nevadas on Sunday, where it was 
expected  to  dump 6  to  12  
inches of snow.  
Mountains  farther  south  

were expected to get up to 2 inches of snow as well, the weather service said. 
Up and down the streets of Laguna Beach's business dis­trict, shopkeepers worked with hoses, brooms and scrap­ers to push mud out of sodden shops. 
"When you live in California, this is the bottom line," said Robbin Maddox, assistant manager of the Big Dog sportswear shop, which had two inches of mud on the floors. 
"You get fires, and floods and mud slides and it's a beautiful place," said Maddox. 
shenantgans 
Singing and Dancing Ensemble 

Winter Concert 
Tuesday, Dec. 9 8:00pm Washington Hall 


Free Admission 

COLO. 
N.M. 
Associated Press 
KYOTO, Japan 

Vice President AI Gore, faced with European demands for concessions in negotiations on global warming, offered new 
U.S. "flexibil­ity" Monday on cutting gas emis­sions. 
But Gore, addressing the 150­nation cli­


mate confer-Gore ence, said the United States would not "promise what we cannot do." 
The vice president's remarks nonetheless set a conciliatory tone for the remaining two days of meetings. 
After consulting by telephone with President Clinton early Monday, Gore said, "I have instructed our delegation to show increased negotiating flexibility -as long as basic principles of the U.S. position are preserved. 
In his public address, Gore offered no detailed changes in the U.S. proposal. 
He reminded delegates that the Kyoto session is only a first step in protecting the atmos­phere. "If we get off to the right start here, we can quickly build momentum as we learn togeth­er how to meet this challenge," he said. 
European governments, envi­ronmentalists and others had been looking for a more ambi­tious U.S. offer on reducing car­bon dioxide and other green­house gases that trap heat in the atmosphere. "The United States can do much more," Ritt Bjerregaard, the European Union environmental commis­sioner, said earlier in the day. 
Without taking sides, Japan's prime minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, preceding Gore to the podium, said only "high­level political decisiveness" will produce "an agreement which can be handed down to future generations with pride." 
Differences between Europe and America over cutback tar­gets stood as a major obstacle to completion of the Kyoto Protocol, an unprecedented global agreement to control energy use in the 21st century. 
Environment ministers from scores of other countries were to address the historic confer­ence Monday and Tuesday as the pace picked up toward a Wednesday conclusion. 
The U.S. vice president, long a champion of environmental causes, landed before dawn Monday on a lightning one-day visit to Kyoto, and headed straight to a breakfast meeting with the U.S. delegation to review the status of the negoti­ations. 
During his flight from Washington, he gave no assur­ance the conference would pro­duce an agreement acceptable to the United States. 
"It's a very tricky situation and success is far from assured. ... A lot of issues are undecid­ed," he told reporters. 
~Gore's Japan trip followed a Saturday stopover at the Florida Everglades, a region scientists say might eventually be threatened by the rising waters of global warming. 
Negotiators in the highly technical Kyoto talks were jug­gling a bagful of adjustable fea­tures -timetables, reduction levels, the gases to be covered -in an effort to find a U.S.­European compromise. 
"The differences are not enormous. They're capable of being overcome in the next few days," said U.S. Senator Joseph Lieberman, an observer at the talks. 
But the Connecticut Democrat was less optimistic about anoth­er dispute: the U.S. effort to win concessions from developing nations on emission reductions, a feature the Senate demands for eventual ratification in Washington. 
The 1 0-day conference wraps up two years of negotiations to strengthen the 1992 Climate Change Treaty, by setting legal­ly binding limits on 34 industri­al nations' emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, mostly byproducts of fos­sil fuel burning. The United States produces 24 percent of global carbon dioxide. 
International scientists reported in 1995 that global temperatures had increased about 1 degree in the past cen­tury, apparently in part because of the greenhouse effect. 


LOOKING FOR CAREER OPTIONS? 
Saint Mary's College Accelerated Programs 
For individuals with abaccalaureate degree as of May 1998 in lillY major. 
ACCElERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING 
•
Earn aB.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months 

•Program begins May 26, 1998 

•
Application deadline: February 15, 1998 


ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN ACCOUNTING 
•
Earn acertificate in Accounting in 10 months 

•
Course work is intended to cover material typically tested on the CPA examination • Program begins August 25, 1998 •Application deadline: June 15, 1998 


-tit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
For more information, please contact the Admission Office at219/284-4587. FAX (219)284-4n6 • hHp: I/www.sainlmarys.edu • E-Mail: admission@sainlmarys.edu 
THE NATION'S PREMIER CATHOLIC WOMEN'S COLLEGE 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 

• GUEST COLUMNIST 
Call Me Car01en San Diego 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad PrendergaSt Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor Dan Cichalski 

Sports Editor ..................................Mike Day Advertising Manager.. . ..................... Jed Peters News Editor. . .................. Heather Cocks Ad Design Manager ............. .Jennifer Breslow Viewpoint Editor ........... Kelly Brooks Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager .......... Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .............. Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeirher insrirmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Nmre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor 631-4541. Advcnising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Sysrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 63!-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
Let's play a little game. Let's call it where hand dryers and paper towels are a "Where is in the World is Carmen San rarity. Diego?" Ready ... Here is hint No. 1. Still confused about Carmen's location? 
Carmen, a stranger in a strange land, Ok, then it is time for the final clue. walks into what appears to be a normal Carmen decides to go out to a restaurant public bathroom. She opens the stall door, with her friends. They pick a quaint look­and begins to sit down on the toilet. ing restaurant and go in. After taking off 
However, she is quick to notice that their shoes, they are seated by their wait­there is no toilet. In place of a toilet there er. The room smells of smoke, but this is appears to be a porcelain hole in the not unusual because in this strange land 
smoking is allowed in any building, whether it be an office building, a school or a restaurant. Carmen and her friends are craving some good ol' spicy Mexican food, so they each order a taco. Thinking
Erinrose 
that they had done a good job translating the menu, they are shocked when the 
waiter brings out their orders. Last they knew a taco did not have eight tentacles and live in the sea. Hmmm ... I guess they forgot that in this land a taco is an octopus and tacos are Mexican food. Sometimes 

ground with pipings and a flush handle making a word plural can make all the rising up out of the hole. She is confused difference in your appetite. about how to use this contraption, but she Those of you who figured that Carmen is supposes it is better than the electronic in the Land of the Rising Sun were proba­toilet that will clean you after you have bly here last year or the year before. finished relieving yourself that she Those of you who did not, do not fret, encountered last week. these are the kind of stories they usually 
Haven't figured out where Carmen is do not tell you before you do study abroad. yet? Then here is another hint. Carmen Now time for the final Jeopardy question. gets on the subway. She sits down and Have any of you figured out who Carmen ignores the people staring at her without San Diego is? actually looking at her. Some of the glares I think that I will leave that answer for are curious and some are unfriendly, but another time, but first some advice to she has been through this routine every those of you who come to the Land of day for the last couple of months so she is Sticky White Rice and Chopsticks. Be care­not bothered by this unwanted attention. ful not to grab every flier handed out to After settling in for the ride, Carmen looks you at the subway entrance. Chances are up at the crowd growing larger and larger that you may be grabbing discount tickets with each stop on the subway line. Among to the infamous love hotels where busi­the passengers though, Carmen notices nessmen take their mistresses or direc­another stranger in a strange land. This tions to the opening of a new drag queen stranger has a cold though, and needing club. Sayonara or as we say here while to blow his nose, he pulls out a handker­waving with both hands "jaanee, bye-bye." chief to do the job. Carmen cringes because he is about to do a no-no in this Erinrose Murphy is a junior Arts and strange land. Here, handkerchiefs are only Letters major studying in Japan. used to wipe the sweat ofl' your face on a The views expressed in this column are hot day or for drying your hands after those ofthe author and not necessarily washing them in the public bathroom those ofThe Observer. 
Murphy 

• Goo 'N' LIFE 
The Purpose of Advent 
W
th the coming of Thanksgiving. the ~holiday season" begins, with its round ofparties, shop~ifl;g and dec~rati.ng. The Catholic Church: and a number of Othf:'lr Christian denommatlons, observe Advent dunng tills time -adifferent way of preparing for the Christ who comes at Christmas. Living Advent in. the weeks before Cill'istmas goes far beyond the usual cus­toms of charity: donating money. to the Salvation Army bell ringers, giving coast to Goodwill, or participating in food drives. This kind of charity should, ideally, 
· be practiceq Yf:'l~~ 'round,. Advent is atiJne when we can look at the past, apply it to our present, and set the course for our future -eternity. 
We can take a tnomentto reView how we prayed in our younger days, andif that ~rtyle ofconversing 
Julie

with God worked better for us than how we do it now. Prayer doesn't haveto bel')teepe~ in formal recita· 
Ferraro

tions. lt is more of the exchange between a toddl(:'lr and his parent .,..,.-.the toddler asks and the patent gives whatrs needed. Or, it can be compared to the relationship between. mends; a sharing of good and bad, and a source of strength and encouragement. Ifwe've reached the point where God is an impersonal "out there" sort, Adventmayhelp us see how the Divine is always in us and with us. 
As the semester winds down, it is natural to assess our present situation. Some students might be so exhausted from the rigors and stress of classes that they don't want to. returJ1 after breakfor the spring semester. Others may be graduating and wondering, ''What next?" There may be a few who try to for­get all that and just enjoy the holidays. The present, however, with its daily opportunities to s~rve, to. grow,Jo live, cannot be ignored. 
Advent places the present squarely before us. More than ever at this time of yearwe see nee~. and we candetermine how best to meet that need on a regu­lar basis. Volunteering, private projects, e,ven dorm sponsored activities can give continual aid over the 12-month period_ If others don't seem willing to handle the organizational duties, take the initiative and do it! Proof of God's love is the way we rmd strength to "beat the odds" when we think it's impossi­ble. 
And, as we learn from our past and use our God-given talents in the present, we will create a future, both individually and collectively, that is brighter. Like tilling the earth and fortilizing combine for flowers to grow, so taking a look at tho. broad spectrUm ofour lives will enable us to grow spiritually. 
Amid the' hustle and bustle of the next few weeks, remember to celebrate Advent. It's surprising how much more meaningful Christmas will be. 
Julie Ferraro is a local administrative assistant. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ojTJw Observer, · 
• IJOONESBURY 
MAN, /(/HATA ll/RNOIJT/ ISN71T B.J?.,l/f,f 
SON&R­
AMAZING ti/H.LfTA 
vous/
/(/INNING !3CASON CAN/?0? 
I 
N&R'IaJs? 8.11., I WN'rKAKJUJ A80I.IT AN'r'tJNeHER& Y5T. tu'fATr I tuANT 70MAKe 
A GCXXJIMPR£SSJON ATTHe COtJ.ff;E., /JC TAKeN !itl?lal!i1/...Yl 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

RELAX, ITS JlETA FaJ7B4LL. 
11/AY, [){}a_

8ANQUfl ~7Ha?£!3 
IOtl/N
50M=Gll>5FROM 71-113 
THeTAP/3,
7li4M-Pt14V&/ 
OKAY? 
\ 

• (luoTE OF THE DAY 
"Man is the only animal that blushes, or needs to." 
·-Mark Twain 

----~------------------------------------------­

VIEWPOINT
Monday, December 8, 1997 
• GUES1.. COLUMNIST 
Evidence Suggests that Jesus was Black 
"The angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, 'Get up, take the child and his mother with you, and escape into Egypt, and stay there until I tell you, because Herod intends to search for the child and do away with him."' 
-Matthew 7:13-15. 

I lave you ever tried arguing with seven­year-olds? When they know something, they know it, and there's nothing you can do to convince them otherwise. 
Five-years ago, for Christmas, I and my fiance's daughter drew the manger scene from Luke's gospel. When Martell began looking for a crayon, "cray'm" as she 
Mel Tardy 

always put it, to color in Jesus, I handed her a brown crayon. Bewildered, she then said, "No, Mel, I need a cray'm for Jesus 
000 

you know, JESUS!" I replied, "I know Marty. Use the brown one." 
Then, in her seven-year-old way, Marty tried to break things down so I could undcrstand:"Noooooo, Mel. JESUS! You know, the baby'?! in the manger?! I
000 

need a WHITE CHAY'M, Mel!!" Abruptly, I sighed, then explained "Marty. Jesus wasn't white. Jesus lived in Africa and had the same color skin that WE do maybe
000 

even darker. Usc the brown crayon." Caught off-guard, she replied, "Mel, Jesus wasn't no African! Jesus is white! We have pictures at school, and He's white!" "Wcii, the pictures at school are wrong, Ma1·ty." "Mel! How come every picture of .fpsus. he's whitP'! LOOK!! on your
000 

WALL!" she shouted, pointing behind me. Sure enough. there was my Sacred Heart picture, with a fair-skinned. thin-haired .Jesus. I stared solemnly at the image, before which I'd said many a prayer, thinking "How could you do this to me, God? How can I possibly explain this now!" 
When I was first presented the idea that .Jesus was African-and dark-skinned­I similarly thought: "Oh, now the Afrocentrics have gone too far!" I was 26 years old, Catholic, and recently rejuve­nated by a trip to Medjugorge, Yugoslavia. Still, I decided to allow this faith chal­lenge, seeking resources to help establish the truth; for if truth and untruth collide, only truth will emerge unscathed. This is what I've found: 
We know that one lie inevitably breeds more lies. Yet we, as "educated" men and women, believe that Jesus was white (i.e. European). based on "lies" -flawed assumptions. Scholars haven't challenged this because the lies are so heavily lay­ered, one could dig deep and still reach the same conclusion. Nevertheless, calling oursPlves "well-educated" without chal­lenging the assumptions risks sharing a history footnote with scholars who doubt­ed Darwin, Copernicus, or Galileo. The Catholic Church burned Galileo's books and arrested him for heresy. Why? He taught that the earth orbits the sun ­contrary to Biblical notions that the uni­verse orbits the earth! 
Similarly, we assume that humans and civilization originated in Europe (i.e. the world revolves around Europe). This is incorrect. Cheikh Anta Diop's book, "The African Origin of Civilization" (197 4), meticulously argues that humans and civi­lization originated in Africa; probably dark-skinned Nubia (ancient Ethiopia, now Sudan; just south of Egypt). From there, Africans populated the world. Caucasians likely arose when the fourth glaciation stranded nomadic tribes in Europe. 
A second assumption is that Egypt. or "North Africa," was Caucasian. Diop claims civilization migrated up the north­flowing Nile River, from dark-skinned Nubia, to establish Upper Egypt (oddly, positioned below Lower Egypt on "upside down" Eurocentric maps!) According to Herodotus, Egypt was a significant civi­lization as early as 10,000 B.C., long before significant Caucasian civilizations. Negroid people then dominated Egypt's history, evident with artifacts like Tutankhamen's tomb and the Sphinxes (although Napoleon later did "corrective surgery," blasting off the African noses and lips of Sphinxes when France invad­ed). It's hard to argue, given Egypt's prominence and proximity (few hundred miles with no natural barriers), that the "Near East" (never referred to as Africa) could arbitrarily be designated "Caucasian" without this flawed assump­tion. True, Greece conquered Egypt 
around 300 B.C.. and Rome did likewise around 70 B.C. Still, African slaves and descendants, during 400 years of American slavery, were often forced to beget children with Caucasian slavemas­ters. but later generations -albeit a shade lighter-retained the dark, Negroid features of their African ances­tors. Thus, a mere 300 years of Greco­
Homan rule would not have "whitened" 
Egypt by the time the Holy Family hid there from Herod, in effect, "passing" for 
Egyptian. 
A third flawed assumption is that the Bible supports a light-skinned Jesus. William Mosley, in "What Color Was Jesus?"(1987), says "Ezekiel, Daniel and Revelations depict God Himself or the Son of God with hair like 'wool' and with bodi­ly parts the color of 'brass' and 'amber."' Africans have hair like wool or brown skin like brass or "bronze," but Europeans do not. Moreover, Mosley uses genealogical tables in Matthew and Luke to trace Jesus' lineage back to Ham, son of Noah and father of C\lsh [Ethiopia!. Mizraim [Egypt]. Put [Libya] and Canaan [ancient Palestine]. Scholars generally agree each of the latter to be dark-skinned Africans. 
Next is the question we began with: Why are all "pictures" of Jesus white? First, early Christian artists, influenced by Greek Hellenism and pagan art, often painted Christ (from the Indian "Krishna," or "Black One") white and beardless. as in the Greek's Apollo. When Rome convert­ed. Christians emerged from catacombs with a Greco-Homan image of Christ. Then, Christianity-with its "white Jesus" figurehead -became a galvaniz­ing force for the splintered, nomadic white populations in Europe. The Crusades­by whites -affirmed the light-skinned Jesus in people's minds. Moreover, Roman (Byzantine) popes had artists like Donatello, Leonardo, and Michelangelo prominently (albeit, not maliciously) affix such images to structures like the Sistine Chapel. (Michelangelo even depicted Asians as Greco-Roman). In essence, they created God -and everyone else -in THEIR own image. 
Second, Cain Hope Felder's book, "Stony The Road We Trod" (1991), claims the Babylonian Talmud, unlike it's contempo­rary sources, added the mysterious story of pius Noah placing a curse upon his grandson, Canaan; cursed because Canaan's father, Ham, stumbled upon his naked, drunk father, Noah. The "crime" hardly justifies punishing Canaan's inno­cent offspring to eternal servitude. Indeed, why condemn Canaan's offspring to dark skin when he and his Hamitic brothers were already dark-skinned! A later version extended a similar curse to Cain, an ancestor of Canaan. Suddenly. this accepted "version" of the Old Testament, introduced perhaps a few hun­dred years after Christ, had all dark­skinned people originating from the sin of an ancestor! 
Scholars suggest such curses subcon­
sciously made Caucasians disassociate 
themselves -and Jesus, or "God" -from 
blacks. Slowly, they undermined the sig­
nificance -and histories -of 
the"accursed" dark-skinned people (moti­
vation for our second assumption?) 
Moreover, these biblical passages were 
later cited by Christians to justify slavery, 
subjugation of "barbaric" African peoples 
and guilt-free plundering of Africa's many 
riches: gold, ivory, land, animals and oil. 
Before you say that sounds far-fetched, remember, a slightly different reasoning -"Jews killed Jesus"-was used by Christians to justify anti-Semitism, leading to centuries of bitter Jewish persecution and, eventually, the Holocaust. Speaking of Jews, wasn't Jesus Jewish, and aren't Jews light-skinned? Yes, but early Jews were much darker, arising from an admixture of Canaanites (dark-skinned Africans) and nomadic white tribes. During the above persecution, Jews fled to Northern Europe (i.e. Poland}, assimilated quite readily, and grew European in appearance and orientation. Centuries later, following the Zionist movement, their descendants returned to the Middle East, settled in Palestine and created Israel. 

Finally, not all "pictures" of Christ ARE white!! Hundreds of paintings and sculp­tures portray Madonna and Child, and other biblical people, with dark skin. Some scholars insist they are the dark­skinned Egyptian goddess and son, Isis and Horus. Others claim the artifacts were damaged by smoke, ala Rembrandt's "The Night Watch." Many works have been misguidedly "restored" with Caucasian tints, or washed to the point of destruction, in attempts to scrub away "dirt." 
Still, significant evidence survives to support the dark-skinned theory. For example, Lucia Birnbaum's book, "Black Madonnas" (1993), documents that St. Luke (author of the familiar Christmas story) was an artist, whose surviving paintings of the Virgin Mary are all dark­skinned! Also, says Birnbaum, "Before the Byzantine era, in the Catacombs of Priscilla at Rome. the earliest depiction of Mary is brown: 'Hers is a rich cocoa color that has withstood the centuries Still
000 "' 

another example is the famous Shrine of 
the Black Madonna in Czestochowa, 
Poland. 
Despite such arguments, people rarely concede. Instead, they counter with "What difference does it make?!" Well, if it makes no difference, why not clearly state the truth! Is it too difficult kneeling before an image the West has symbolically oppressed? Offering a blue, red, multicol­ored or abstract image of Jesus, instead of a brown one, is cowardly. It merely avoids the issue and perpetuates the lies for future generations. 
How silly would Hitler have looked pro­claiming Aryan supremacy if everyone knew Jesus, son of God, had brown skin? How else could Christian America have morally justified slavery and racism? Undeniably, events of the past 1900-plus years would have been different had the West not adopted the above assumptions. When my fellow dark-skinned peoples wallow in poverty and underachievement, yet ironically reject Jesus-the "blue­eyed God of crusading Whites"-it mat­ters. Moreover, when my Caucasian brothers and sisters believe that they can morally ignore institutional racism in the Catholic Church without consequence -it matters. 
Notre Dame boldly claims to be "a place where the Church can do its thinking," but if we refuse to consider evidence suggest­ing a Black Jesus, we are no better than those learned scholars of Galileo's era, nor even seven-year-olds. I believe that we, at Notre Dame, CAN boldly, scholarly, and spiritually reflect on the truth, because I've allowed -and survived -such chal­lenge myself. I loved Jesus when I thought He was "white." My love for Him has not grown nor lessened simply because I now believe He entered the world "black." Jesus' message of eternal salvation remains the same, as does "a rose by any other name." I will keep the faith. 
Nevertheless, I pray that, one day, the Child from the manger who disappeared into Egypt will emerge again. One fine, Christmas morning, while serenely gazing upon nativity scenes, perhaps the truth will indeed set us free. 
Mel Tardy is an '86 and '90 graduate of Notre Dame. He currently serves as an assistant professional specialist in the First Year ofStudies. He can be reached at: melvin.r.tardy.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 9 
TO tHE EDITOR 

Controversy i1Jt~st One of 
,.. ::: :.1]~~~:,::: 
Many 'Jokes' 
we all just get along? Notre Dame controver­

r '"·'"'''hcmt Matt Griffin's impeach­is a classic. I particularly Thursday's Observer, in the Student Senate quos­Jeremy Ljngenfelser validity of his claims siMe they and Matt had already said they true in previous interviews. Atleast all the actions in ques­tion were committed at the b~gin,ning of the year, because that obviously makes it all bet· t~r: Further, I'd like to point out to everyone that without Matt Griffm's leadership and innova· tion, there would be no Campus -Up. Go Jeremy! I, for one. of the Hook-Up cutting 'RighfRea$on' reading 
t personally don't care if Matt Griffin shows up for a Student Government meeting wearing a 
·(ite$~ and high on crack. Let's be.honest-student government and Student Senate are only so useful. The only mourner if nei­ther existed would be The 
"'"'~"'"'"~"'",whose in-depth cover­""'u'au government's varc 
to CQhdemn the arid form com~ t~solutions and 
~..,_...,..,,"'"'''v"'" (historically 
Brian Miller Senior Carroll Hall December 5, l~n 



Monday, December 8, 1997

page 10 
'Midnight' Madness? 
Agent Wallace Ritchie: License to laugh 
with Williams. During the party, Williams gets in a 
quarrel with one of his out­side workers named Billy ­Billy wanted money for 
Midnight in the Garden 
of Good and Evil 
booze and drugs, but Williams refuses. After
Directed by Clint Eastwood 
everybody from the party has gone home, Billy is mur­

Starring John Cusack and Kevin Spacey 

(out of five shamrocks) 

By MIKE MCMORROW Accent Movie Critic 
T
he first and last shots from "Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil" are the best. It opens with a montage of fade-ins and fade­outs of Savannah, Geor., and ends with a shot of a statue in a garden in Savannah (the statue shot is in the open­ing montage). The statue is of a goddess holding two bowls, each supposedly symbolizing good and evil. We are set up, therefore, for some sort of payoff to support the film's ending and beginning. And perhaps we get something of the sort. But "Midnight" does not have the energy or uniting drive to get us from those virtuoso opening and finalizing shots, and that is a most fundamental problem. 
The film stars John Cusack as a New York writer, named John Brisco!, who has been hired by a magazine (by the name of Town and Country) to review the infamous Christmas party of the very wealthy art trader Jim Williams {Kevin Spacey). Brisco! goes to Savannah to the home of Williams, and goes to the party and develops an interesting relationship 
dered, admittedly by 
Williams. But here's the 
catch: Williams claimed self­
defense. He claims that Billy 
fired at him first. 
Nevertheless, there are no 
witnesses, and Williams is indicted for murder. The Cusack charac­ter. all along, has been watching from both the outside and inside. 
So there's the setup for "Midnight." It is not uninteresting, and the setting is especially pleasing. Savannah, from what we sec, is a town that looks like a huge antique shop -filled with ancient houses, all looking restored. There arc many other characters who give Savannah an especially macabre feeling. There is the showgirllcomedian who tries to most humorously seduce every­one she meets. There is the juror and town nuisance who attaches files to him with a string. There is the voodoo queen who takes Spacey and Cusack out to the cemeteries and tries to recall the dead. This is all done in sort of a cryptic atmosphere. One thing "Midnight" does succeed in doing is to create an isolated world -one which sets its own stan­dards for normality. 
I enjoyed many of the cinematic aspects of "Midnight." The frame to frame transitions are graceful, and many of the camera angles prove them­selves to be quite interesting and fresh. But the reason that I give it such a nega­tive review is because all these different elements cannot find a right fit for each other; the film plays like a jig­saw puzzle in which some of the pieces fit together, but they can­not form a whole. After contemplating the enig­matic aspects of the film (how does a voodoo queen relate to an art-dealer involved in a murder'?), I can try to force a fit. But Clint Eastwood, the director (yes, that Clint Eas.twood) does no draw any direct con­nections for us. Well, "isn't that our job'?" you might ask. To an extent, yes. But, you have to realize that a 

movie needs a central drive that is powerful enough to carry two and a half hours of screen time. And this "central drive," of which I speak, needs to act like a pen that draws some sort of direct link through all the events in the movie. And with "Midnight," the pen is out of ink. 
The performances are credible. But his is not a movie that can be saved by the characters (one of the first movie that I have ever seen where this state­ment applies). Cusack and Spacey are fine in their roles. And the supporting characters all have fun in making their characters shine in their isolated moments. But, as I have spoken of before, those moments are genuinely 
photo courtesy Warner Bros. Pictures Kevin Spacey portrays wealthy antiques dealer Jim Williams in "Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil." 
isolated. "Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil" is perhaps the most interesting "bad" movie that I have ever seen. Either Eastwood should have taken that pen and drawn some connec­tions between his scenes and ideas, or perhaps he should have taken that pen and crossed "Midnight" off his list before the printer even finished printing off the screenplay adaptation. 
(our of five shamrocks) 

.-.:-;-.<< 
L------------------------.T~,------~~0~~• 

By JOHN BARRY 
Accent Movie Critic 
The Man Who Knew Too Little 
Directed by Jon Amiel Starring Bill Murray, Joanne Whalley, Peter Gallagher, Alfred Molina 


T
here are three kinds of movies. There are those where you can say "Yes, I recommend to you, my friend, that you go see this movie. It is good for such-and-such a rea­son." Yow· friend might not be clear on what you mean by "such-and-such," but being your friend, and not wanting you to stretch your vocabulary to come up with a better and more coherent description, he or she will think "Okay, I'll part with the $3.75 and give it a shot," and there's really no risk involved. Specific examples of such a movie would be "Anything with Julia Roberts, Except 'Mary Reilly."' 
The second kind of movies arc those where you tell your friends "If you ever speak of going to see that movie again, we are no longer friends." An example of such a movie would be "Home Alone III." Although not yet released, and with my lack of telepathic capabilities, my Inner Critic can still instantly tell that it is the kind of film that you would suggest to your profes­sor after he/she just announced that the mean for the exam was a 75 when you know perfectly well that it could NOT have been higher then a 12. If I was told that I either had to watch "Home Alone III" or listen to the Hanson album straight through, I would have to choose to spontaneously combust. 
And tl1en there's the third kind of movie, where it's just a big "O.K." neither worthy of RUSH TO THE THEATER NOW AND BUY Ali REMAINING TICKETS nor LEAVE THIS PlANET TO AVOID SEEING IT! "The Man Who Knew Too Little" is funny in parts, but only after a slow start. Yes, this movie ha'i "Video Rental" written all over it. 
"The Man Who Knew Too Little" is about an engineering major who fell so far behind in his classes that during the approaching finals week his only consolation and shred of hope was the saying "'D' is for Diploma!" Just kidding-sorry about letting my personal problems affect my article. Seriously though. the film is a comedy of errors where an innocent man ambles his way through a dangerous espionage scheme, never knowing the reality of the situation. 

Bill Murray plays Wallace Ritchie, a child-like American, who never got any closer to his dream of being in film than working for Blockbuster Video, or visiting his brother (played by Peter Gallagher) in London. Wallace's brotl1er wants to get him out of his house and away from his dinner guests, so he signs Wallace up for "Theater of Life," a group which performs in the actual buildings and streets of London with one audi­

photo courtesy Warner Bros. Pictures Bill Murray and Joanne Whalley run headlong into trouble in the secret agent slapstick "The Man Who Knew too Little." 
ence member at a time, a'i they become part of the story. This is Wallace's big chance to perform, to show off those acting skills. 
Wallace receives a phone call which he thinks is the start of the theatrical performance, but instead it entangles him in a real-life drama. Much of the film's humor comes from Murray's total cluelessness: his inability to see what is really going on around him, and having a great time doing it. In "What About Bob?" he thought that Richard Dreyfuss's attempt to kill him was the ingenious new "Death Therapy." Not quite as fllimy, Murray this time thinks that all of the real spies, call girls. and politicians are just aetors. He stumbles through one near disaster alter the next, thinking it was all timed just perfectly by tl1e actors, as the real bad guys think that Murray is a ma'iter spy. The dialogue L'i cleverly written so a'i to make sense with respect to both how Murray sees the sit­uation and how the real spies see the situation. 
The film starts oil' a little slow, a'> I more than once was tempted to ask those around me "This is a comedy, right'?" But eventually things get rolling, and tim film is amusing. A scene in which Murray improvises as a Russian dancer had the entire audience laughing quite hard, as it was the film's climax in both plot and hwnor. Willie this movie isn't at thn caliber of Murray's Saturday Night Live sketches, it will provide that unique entertainment expected from a Bill Murray movie. 
OVERAll: It's a funny movie, and I did enjoy it. If you're as big a fan of Murray as I am, then this is definitely worth seeing. 
WOUlD I RECOMMEND IT TO MY FRIENDS?: Yes, but my friends are smart enough to know that I would like anything with Bill Murray in it, unless of course he has anything to do witl1 "Home Alone IV" or "Hanson The Movie: Cat-Fight with The Spiccgirls." But I respect Mr. Murray enough to believe he would never do such a horrid thing. 
AlliNG: Well, no, Murray doesn't act: he's just Bill Mun·ay, and that non-chalant ambling is what makes his performance great. A'i for the supporting cast, they're just kind of there so Murray can have someone to exchange dialogue with and react to, so I guess that they're not wort11 mentioning (besides saying t11at tl1ey're not worth mentioning, whieh I suppose is really a form of mentioning). 
DID YOU SEE ANY GOOD PREVIEWS'?: Yes! My favorite part, as always, was tllC previews. Over Christmas break, you should all go see "Titanic," "Tomorrow Never Dies," and "Scream 2." Unfortunatdy they al'io showed tlw preview for, you guessed it: "I lome Alone Ill," which was enough to make me want to mimic Oedipus Rex and gouge out my eyes. They almost ruined the entirn movie-going-experience! 
I UKE CAR CHA'IES. WILL I UKE THIS FILM?: Yes! There's one of the funniest car chases I've ever seen -definitely a highlight of the movie. I know that it's hard to think of a car chase as "lllimy" instead of "exciting" or "like my first driver's test," but trust me, it's humorous stufr. 
MORAL OF THE STORY: I urge you to start a petition to ban bad previews before good movies. Also, I think "Home Alone III" is Matt Griffin's fault. And I tllink I have Mr. !Jngenfelser's support on this crucial issue. 
TO VIEW OR NOT TO VIEW: I'm not mging you to just study for fmals all next week -especially since my classes arc almost all graded on a curve -but I'm just saying that there arc better films out there now that are worthy of the Big Screen viewing, and you can save this lilm for video. 

~~~----~------~~------------------------~--------~-----·-··~-.--P-~--~ 
1997 Women's Soccer Final Four 

Nothing's finer in Carolina 
Connecticut Notre Dame 
The Tar Heels shut down UConn 2-0 in Sunday's final to continue their amazing domina­tion of women's col­legiate soccer. 
2-1 
see page 2 

Huskies end Irish season 
Notre Dame fails to reach the title game for the first time in four years 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant SportS Editor 
GREENSBORQ, N.C. 

The Irish witnessed their dream season collapse into a nightmarish end. 
It seemed like a recurring nightmare to Irish goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene as she once again faced a one-on-one with Connecticut's Sara Whalen. 
Just 23 minutes ago, she had faced the exact same situation. This time Beene charged out of goal to wt the angle of an accel­erating Whalen, but fell a few inches shy and witnessed the game-winning goal sail past her outstretched arms. The Huskies went up 2-0 to secure a chance to play for the title. Later on Notre Dame would rally but still fall short, 2-1. 
"I don't think the story of the game was their goals," Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "The story was our inability to finish our goals." 
Notre Dame had numerous opportunities in the first half to jump out to a commanding lead. Ironically, the Huskies had only a minuscule amount of chances. Whalen capitalized on the team's first offensive opportunity by tucking a goal in between the post and Beene. 
"I don't think a question of motivation was even there," senior tri-captain Kate Sobrero said. "Obviously in the first half, they only crossed midfield three times and scored once. They got lucky." 
Luck was a major factor in Friday's finish. The Huskies had a total of six shots on goal and converted on two of them. Notre Dame took 28 shots at Connecticut goalie Heather Stone, but only one went in. 



The Observer/John Daily While Connecticut coaches and players celebrate in the background, Notre Dame's Monica Gonzalez (left) and Shannon Boxx react to the end of their season immediately following the 2-1 loss to the Huskies. 
Stone saved nine of those while the rest missed the mark. 
"We did a good job of making the goal­keeper look real good today," Petrucelli said. "We hit a lot of balls at her. I don't know that she had to dive to save them all. And she had some help from the post." 
Stone's play in Friday's game landed her on the all-tournament team, along with defender Carey Dorn, midfielder Jennifer Tietjen, and Whalen. Also, Whalen was named first team all-American. 
In the past, Whalen anchored the Huskies defense but most of this year she spent on ofTense. Her goals on Friday gave her a team-high 64 points. She scored 21 goals and had 22 assists this season. 
"I don't believe we overlooked them," Petrucelli said. "We played well. We played with emotion and passion. This wasn't a case of us overlooking Connecticut." 
While the Irish may have not overlooked the Huskies, they may have underestimat­
• iRISH INSiGHT 

Even without a championship, Irish still one of the best 
GREENSBORO, N.C. ..------...., helped the underdogs slay the mighty Goliath, admitted 
As the final second ticked off the game that this year's Notre Dame squad had the edge over clock at University of North Carolina at perennial powerhouse North Carolina. Greensboro Soccer Stadium Friday, a So what happened to the Irish that fateful December frustrated Irish team stared in disbelief. afternoon? 
The Connecticut Huskies had just_ Absolutely nothing that they could control. handed the Irish their first loss of the The Irish team that had beaten the Huskies twice already season, a 2-1 defeat in the NCAA Final in 1997 played 90 minutes of dominant soccer, keeping Four. pressure on Connecticut goalie Heather Stone for a majori­
No one could believe their eyes -Allison Krilla ty of the game. But on that day, the players that amassed Notre Dame, arguably the nation's best Sports Writer 134 goals in Notre Dame's previous 24 contests could man­women's collegiate soccer team, was age only one tally. going to be watching the rest of the tournament from the Notre Dame outplayed, outhustled and outshot sidelines. Connecticut, but its luck just ran out. The crossbar and 
Even Connecticut's Sarah Whalen, whose two goals 
see INSIGHT/ page 3see END/ page 2 

--~~--~~~......~~~............-....~_.........~..............................................~~..........~~~zu............~~~A, 
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, December 8, I 997 
Tar Heels shut out Huskies to capture 14th NCAA title 
Associated Press the 16 years that the NCAA has Mullinix. The shutout was the staged the event. 22nd of the season for North GREENSBORO, N.C. The Tar Heels wrapped up Carolina, tying a school record 
Cindy Parlow and Robin an undefeated 27-0-1 season for most in a season. Confer scored goals to beat in style, peppering Connecticut The Tar Heels outscored Connecticut 2-0 Sunday and goalkeeper Heather Stone with their opponents 16-1 in their lead North Carolina to its 14th 20 shots and allowing only five five matches in the NCAA tour­NCAA women's soccer title in shots on Tar Heels goalie Siri nament. 
After the Huskies dominated the opening five minutes of play. UNC seemed to find its rhythm at the 40-minute mark and dominated play the remainder of the first half, out­shooting the Huskies 8-2. 
The Tar Ileels got on the scoreboard at 20:03 when junior forward Cindy Parlow scored her first game-winning goal of the season. 
The goal was set up by sophomore midfielder Lindsay bling to the right of center to In its 19-year varsity history, Stoecker, who was a last­beat defender Carey Dorn. North Carolina has now won minute addition to the starting Stone finished with eight 15 national championships,lineup when first-team all­saves for Connecticut. Mullinix including the Association for American midfielder Laurie was credited with three saves, Intercollegiate Athletics for Schwoy could not play because and named the tournament's Women (AIAW) title in 1981 of a pulled hamstring. Stoecker most valuable defensive play­and 14 NCAA crowns. served a ball into the er. Sunday's national champi­
Connecticut box where it was The game marked the third onship effort was led byflicked by the head of fresh­time the Tar Heels and Huskies Carolina's tough defense and man forward Haven McDonald. have met for the NCAA cham­by a pair of all-star forwards Parlow finished off the play pionship. North Carolina won -Parlow and Confer -who when she volleyed the ball out 2-0 in 1984 and 6-0 in 1990, each contributed a goal to the of the air past Stone. and is now 52-2 overall in winning effort. Confer, who scored with two NCAA tournament games. For the season, UNC minutes remaining in the Carolina's all-time record in outscored its opponents 117-8. match, was named the most 19 years of varsity play, all With the 27 wins, Carolina also valuable offensive player of the under the tutelage of head set a school record for victories NCAA tournament. She. also coach Anson Dorrance, 46, is in a season. scored the deciding goal in now 417-16-11. Connecticut finished its sea­North Carolina's 2-1 semifinal The game was played before son at 23-4-0 with the loss. victory Friday over Santa a crowd of 9,460 at the UNC­The Huskies came into Clara. Greensboro Soccer Stadium, Sunday's match as the No. 3 Confer's goal came on a 25-the largest crowd ever to view seed in the NCAA tournament
Robin Confer, shown here in action against the Irish in .septe.mb~r, 
yard blast after collecting a
snagged offensive MVP honors at the NCAA champ1onsh1ps 111 a college women's soccer and the No. 5-ranked team in 
Greensboro. pass from Nel Fettig and drib-game. the NSCAA poll. 
End 
continued from page 1 
ed the amount of revenge which the Huskies were seeking after losing 6-1 to the Irish in the Big East championship. 
"We know we have something to prove to everyone," Connecticut senior Sarah Barnes said about wanting revenge. 


"That was a nationally televised game,  
so  we  want  to  prove  ourselves.  
Sometime you slip and don't play your  
best game.  We know that is what hap­ 
pened [in the Big East championship]."  
Prior  to  the  semifinal  game,  
Connecticut's Whalen felt that speed  
would be the key.  
"They can't match up against our  
speed if we use our speed in the right  
way," Whalen said.  "Most teams play a  
slower, more possession game.  Our  
team likes to go forward.  I think that if  
we are using our strategy correctly, then  
we are going to be hard to stop."  
The strategy worked well for the  
Huskies.  The pure speed of Whalen led  
her team to victory.  Petrucelli knew  
early on that Whalen would be a factor  
in the game.  
"It is interesting to match up with  
them because you never know where  
Whalen is going to play," Petrucelli said  
prior to Friday's game.  
The bright spot came for the Irish dur­ 
ing the 76th minute of play when sopho­ 
more Jenny Streiffer soared through the  
air and connected with senior Holly  
Manthei's corner kick to give the Irish a  
glimmer of hope.  It was Streiffer 20th  
goal of the season.  Her spectacular goal  
and overall performance landed her on  
the all-tournament team.  Manthei also  
was named to the all-tournament team. Prior to Streiffer's goal, Petrucelli sub­stituted in freshman Monica Gonzalez and sophomore Jenny Heft to give the Irish more offensive threats on the field. Despite all the added offensive fire power, Notre Dame could not convert on their opportunities. "Sometimes you get beat by your opponents and sometimes .you get beat by the game," Petrucelli said. "Today  .tld~ sheets following Friday's sl;)n~it'Ullal games.. ·.• . .· Whalen, who scored ul1:s two goals; goalie ·. ntlamw Stone; who stopped shots; defender who pestered the ·· ve arsenal all midfieldetJen ·assisted ort  \\fhaJeri'$ secondgoal. mad(l up the Connecti<:tltconting<lnt · on.the all~tourname'l'ltteam. Not surprisingly, North . Carolil;la placed the .most play­ersontheteam. · (Joalie and Greensboro nativeSifi.. Mullinix. headed the . list,. and was also n.;tmed d~fert~iy~ ri:tosfyalti.able play­ erof the tournament. She was joined by forwards Cindy Parlow and Robin Collier, who earned the tournament's offensive most valuable player honor. Midfielder Tiffany Roberts and defenders Staci Wilson and Lorrie Fair rounded out the roster.  
we got beat by the game."  

Monday, December 8, 1997 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Huskies prove they came to play 
Whalen, Stone carry UConn to final matchup with UNC 
By DAN CICHALSKI Assistant Managing Editor 
GHEENSBOHO, N.C. 

In just three Big East seasons, Notre Dame and Connecticut have developed quite a rivalry in women's soccer. 
With Friday's 2-1 Husky upset over the Irish in the NCAA smnilinals, that rivalry just got more intense. The victory was only UConn's second against Notre Dame, the first coming in the teams' first meeting in 1995; alter that. the Irish won six straight before this season. In 1997, Notre Dame benefitted from a little bit of luck in the 1-0 regu­lar-season victory, and a lot of firepower in a 6-1 triumph for t\11~ Big East title. 
"I think my players and I feel we accomplished sonwthing great today," Connecticut coach Len Tsantiris said. "We beat the odds. I thought Notre Dame and Carolina were the best teams, but on a given day it's who's going to play. We played well enough to win, and we had some outstanding defending. We were lucky." 
That luck appeared in the form of two UConn goals by senior Sara Whalen on just six Husky shots, and one Irish goal on 28 shots -and at least six of those ricocheted off posts or the cross­bar. 
But luck was not the only factor. It was a well­playPd game on both sides. At the very least, it was an evenly-played game; Notre Dame may have even had the edge. 
But the Huskies would not break under the Irish pressure. 
"The last two games that we played Notre Dame this year, we tried to match up with them and we did fairly well," Tsantiris said. "We saw what hap­pened the last couple games that we played them. Today we tried to pack (the defenders) in and it worked. We have great speed on the outside and up front. I though we'd be able to penetrate, but I wasn't sure how tough our defense would be." 
The defense turned out to be tough enough to force the Irish to take screened shots, many of which were either right at Husky goalie Heather Stone or right at the posts and crossbar. 
"It was a lot of pressure and I think we kept our heads and broke down their attacks again and again," Stone said. "You always play for the moment, and until the ball is in the net, they haven't scored." 
In holding the Irish offense to just one goal, Connecticut sh.ut down an attack that averaged 
5.63 goals per game heading into Greensboro. Even Notre Dame's 28 shots were two below the season average. The Irish certainly had their chances, but Connecticut sucked them up. 
"I think seeing Heather as an addition to our team has helped us," Tsantiris said. "She hadn't played with our team until August. We knew that her athletic ability and the mental part of the game were there. I felt she would be the one to emerge this season, and she did. She did a great job. She felt comfortable playing and came up big today. I think everything was there today for us." 
The Huskies did have it all there, scoring two goals against a team that gave up only seven oth­ers during the season. North Carolina is the only other team to find the back of the net twice in one game against the Irish in 1997. 
And no player had as good a game against the Irish in 1997 as Whalen did. · 
"I was going to the goal early in the game and dribbled one ball out of bounds," the senior all­American said. "And after that, I promised my teammates that I wouldn't miss another chance like that. On the first goal, Jen Carlson got a great pass through and I was able to break down the left side. The second goal was similar, and Jen (Tiejten's) ball was very tactical and had a great pace on it, which is difficult to do with that pass." 
Everything came together despite Notre Dame's persistence and relentless pressure. The Irish con­trolled the ball and the pace of the game for much of the contest. 
"Notre Dame is a good team," Tsantiris said. "We like to possess the ball, and you have to have the post. Notre Dame did a good job of not letting us possess the ball and go forward with it. We have always practiced to defend players coming through us, but we didn't practice to defend inside the box. Actually, Notre Dame forced us back there. You have to do what you have to do." 
The Connecticut Huskies did what they had to do: They won. 
• GAME QuorEs 
Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli on his team's semifinal loss to Connecticut: "Sometimes you get beat by your opponents, sometimes you get beat by the game. Today we got beat by the game." 
Petrucelli on the play of Connecticut goalie Heather Stone: ·~r think we did a good job of making their goalkeeper look real good (on Friday). We hit a lot of balls at her. I don't know if she had to dive to save a ball, and she had a lot of help from the post." 
Holly Manthei on the team's feeling being down by one goal at halftime: "I think the whole game, we felt like we were in it. If you were to compare this game to last year's (NCAA} semifinal. when we went down two goals, there was obviously a drop in our mentality last year at halftime. But th,ere wasn't that feeling at the half. We kept plugging away for 90 minutes, and there wasn't a minute of this game where we dropped our heads and said. 'This game's over."' 
Petrucelli on the quality of the opposition in this tournament: "I saw some of the (North Carolina~ Santa Clara game), and after watching our game, I'm very biased about this, but I thought we were the best team here. Unfortunately. we're not playing anymore." . 
Connecticut head coach Len Tsantiris on his team's strategy against the Irish: "The last two games we played Notre Dame we matched them up. But I thought we would try to put four players in the middle and Sara Whalen and Naomi (Stone) in the front. I didn't know how patient our players would be because we had to constantly defend against Notre Dame. But for the last three days we worked on it, our players felt comfortable and it worked.'' 
Huskies forward Sara Whalen on what it means to beat Notre Dame and play for the national championship: "We're all really excited, but per­sonally I feel that Notre Dame has the edge over North Carolina. So going into the final game on ~un?ay, I th~nk we're all going to be completely msprred and m awe of the situation." 

N. Carolina 



Connecticut William &Ma 


NCAA Division I 
1997 Soccer Cham 
N. Carolina 
(1-0) 
Semifinals 
Dec5 
Connecticut 
(4-0) 

N. Carolina 
(2-1) 
Final 
Dec7 

Connecticut 
(2-,1) 
North Carolina 
(2-0) 
National Champion 

Conneqticut 2, Notre Dame 1 
.AtGreerisboro; N.C.  
Connecticut  1  1-2  
Notre Dame  0  1-1  
First Half  

41 :01 -(UC) Sara Whalen goal from four yards (assisted by 
.······· Jen Carlson). 
'ec:cmg H.alf ··········•···· ..
64:37 (UC) Whalen goal from six yards (Jen Tietjen). 
76:01 --(NO) Jenny Streiffer header from four yards (Holly ••.• Manthei). ············ . · Goalies (Saves)..,.,_ Connecticut, Heather Stone (9); Notre 
Dame, LaKeysia Beene (1). ~ol).ls: Connectlei~t 19,.Notre Dame 11. Yellow Cards: Connecticut, Jen Carlson (69:08), Sara Barnes, 
78:28. 

Corner Kicks: Connecticut o, Notre Dame 1 o. 
Insight 
continued from page 1 
The Observer/John Daily 
Notre Dame freshman Anne Makinen gets a head up on a Connecticut defender in Friday's semifinal contest. 
posts wore Husky blue and white, deflecting half a dozen Irish shots away from the net. 
While Chris Petrucelli praised his team's effort, you couldn't help but hear the sadness in his voice for what could have been. The 1995 Irish national championship team took the post-season by storm with heart, desire and a gutsy overtime perfor­mance in the final game. But this year's team had all that and more -it had talent that was second to none. 
Talent to the tune of three 50-plus point scorers and three more 40-plus point scorers, with fresh­men Anne Makinen and Meotis Erikson and sophomore Jenny Streiffer leading the way. Talent in the form of senior all-American defense­man Kate Sobrero and rising stars Jen Grubb and Kelly Lindsey. Talent in the shape of the nation's career leader in assists, senior Holly Manthei. 
Then what was it that left Manthei and Sobrero with tears in their eyes and the already soft-spo­ken Streiffer even quieter? 
D.reams o.r a national title placed just beyond thmr reach m a game that wasn't supposed to end this way. 
Before the game, seniors Manthei and Sobrero spoke of the team chemistry and its ·legitimate shot at the title. 
But it was fate that had other plans for this Notre Dame team. Sometimes there are circum­stances beyond your control -the outcome of Friday's game was one of them. 
What you do when things don't turn out the way you expect is what affects your life. 
Instead of looking at the end of the season as a loss, and the end of Manthei's, Sobrero's and Julie Maund's careers as a disappointment, let's look at what was accomplished. 
For four straight years the Irish reached the NCAA Final Four, following a first-round tfmrna­ment loss in 1993, Notre Dame's first trip to the Big Dance. 
These last four years have brought Notre Dame's women's soccer program into the national spotlight. Notre Dame is uttered in the same breath as North Carolina in elite soccer eircles. Nort~ C~rolina has now won 14 national champi­onships m the 16 years of the tournament's exis­tence, while Notre Dame women's soccer pro­gram has only been around for 10 years. 
This season may have ended with a loss to the Huskies, but the legacy of Irish soccer has just begun. 

... 


• The Observer/John Daily The Observer/John Daily UConn's Sarah Barnes (9 in blue) and Heather Stone (with braid) celebrate with another teammate just after the clock Anne Makinen jumps to trap a ball Friday after­expires on the Irish Friday. Notre Dame's Monica Gerardo (far right) and Jenny Streiffer (far left) leave the field after wrap­noon. The freshman midfielder led the Irish with ping up a 23-1-1 season. 23 goals and 58 points in 1997. 
cCfj)lfillfilcecllnc1Ulll ~ 
NC[J)illfce ITJ)<ffimce ll 
December 5, 1997 UNC-Greensboro Soccer Stadiun1 Greensboro, North Carolina 




---~-~---­

Monday, December 8, I997 page 11 

The Soap Opera Wrap-up 

By GLNEVIEVE MORRILL General Hospital Correspondent 
G 
cneral Hospital delivered some major action this week. Stefan skulked around the grounds at Serenity before gaining the courage to approach Katharine. He explained all the dirty details to her and expected her to jump into his arms. He is most confused when she does not. Kathy tells him where to go and he refuses. Way to hang in there buddy! She finally gave into Stefan's wiles after he admits that he loves her. They then proceed to get naked and go for it. Memo to the producers: billowing chiffon and tons of candles make for an inferno and I'm not talking about the lovers. After their night of love, they decide to date. How quaint, sex then dating! 
Luke tried to get the scoop or Alexis and Stefan's fight, then called her little sister. Seems he has been digging. Alexis is Natasha. She tried to play dumb but has her mother's ring. Her mother, Kristin Bergman, was a famous opera singer. She retired to have her lover's baby and four years later was found with her throat slit and vocal cords torn out. Since the knife was in her hand, her death was ruled suicide and no one ever found out what happened to her daughter. Alexis only remembers the Cassadines and believed that she was the daughter of Alexei and Sonya Cassadine Davidavitch. Luke tells her the "interesting history" about the ring and how the stones suppos­edly protect the wearer from harm. She tells him that if Helena ever discovered that she raised her husband's illegitimate daughter and that she is a threat to Nik's inheritance, she will be dead too. 
Alexis refuses to allow Luke to use her against Stefan. She desires more time to come to terms with everything and discover her moth­er's murderer before Helena is alerted. Luke offers her the chance for revenge. A Spencer and Cassadine teaming up? Lock the doors and hide, it could get ugly. 
Tess and Jimmy watch Mac and Felicia and seem to want to take over Mac's life, but we are still not clear on that. Tess and the faux Mac try to get information from Felicia and the real Mac. 
Tony tries to get information about Lorraine, but it is like squeez­ing blood from stone and our Dr. Jones is not the sharpest knife in the drawer. He offers her a job in exchange for the real scoop and she reads him the riot act about controlling Carly and not trusting her. Bobbie admits to Carly that she doesn't want her around and Carty tells the witch that no matter what she's got the baby and therefore Tony. 
Lucy pitches the new campaign to Brenda as a television special, "Behind the Scenes with Brenda" or some such nonsense where Brenda will share hair care tips. Not being a fool, Brenda wants to approve all of the questions beforehand. The producers are fine with that but want to focus the special on her twisted relationship and nasty break up with Sonny. That guy gets more air time off the show than he ever did on it. She freaks and fires the guy. 
Lizzie convinces Lucky that Sarah is in danger. The only danger is in her head, as Sarah is receiving several doses of Nikolas' loving. lley if that is danger bring it on! Sarah and Nik decide that they are not ready for sex and figure out that Lizzie planted the condoms. 
Jason is still holding on to his territory by allowing the organiza­tion to think that he killed Sonny and that he will be ready if there is another move against him or Brenda. Luke will have the party of the year on Monday and by the end of it bullets and fists will be flying. So tune in and don't worry about those finals ... Nik and I will see you next semester. 
Genevieve Morrill can be reached at morr8584@saintmarys.edu if you have any questions or comments. 


I. Flubber 
2. 
Alien Resurrection 

3. 
The Rainmaker 

4. 
Anastasia 

5. 
The Jackal 

6. 
Midnight in the Garden 

7. 
Mortal Kombat: Annihilation 

8. 
I Know What You Did Last Summer 

9. 
Bean I0. Starship Troopers 


Source: Reuters 

By NAOMI FREEMAN, 
KRISTINE HOWARD, 
and NICOLE PAULINA 
Days of Our Lives' Correspondents 
H 
appy Holidays, DAYS fans! Since this is our last column of the year {and Kristy will be abroad next semester), we'd just like to thank everyone who enjoyed reading our updates. It's nice to know that there are others who obsess about this show as much as we do. Now, to bring everyone up-to-date on the events in Salem since Thanksgiving: 
John and Roman both planted kisses on Marlena during the Break, hoping to rekindle their romances with Doc (unbeknownst to each other). Unfortunately for John, it seems that a Roman!Marlena rec­onciliation is in the works. Eric and Kristen both pressured John to step aside;· and he made the mistake of letting Roman see his frus­tration. This prompted the ever-clever Roman to question John for details of his "marriage" with Kristen. Privately, John and Marlena both lamented that they must continue to deceive the sick Roman. To maintain the ruse, Marlena even gave John his engagement ring back. Ouch! 
The big story is still Jennifer's kidnapping, Jack's escape, Travis' homicidal tendencies, and Peter's mosquito bite. After a series of misadventures we don't even CARE to describe, Jack found out that Jen was being taken to the Grand Canyon and that she and Travis were traveling in disguise. Jack survived a car accident, being held at gunpoint, and Laura's hysterics {via telephone) to discover that the rendezvous spot with Peter was probably this cabin down in the canyon. At the same time, Peter himself was making his travel plans and fending off a nasty case ofjungle fever that apparently gives him the strength to rip a sink out of the wall. Look out Jack! 
Back in Salem, Lucas rebuffed Sami's offer of friendship. After giving Carrie a big promotion at Titan, Kate was forced to give Sami one as well. The Queen of Mean might be in danger, though, because Franco seemed a little suspicious of his new partner in crime. If she doesn't keep up her end of their bargain, everyone's favorite male model might have to teach her a lesson. Could Franc::> already be stalking Sami? 
As usual, Bo and Hope continued to walk in on each other in com­promising positions while still mooning over each other in private. Billie started to get nervous as she prepared to testify against Max, thinking he will reveal she had been hooked on drugs again. {Do we care???) Unfortunately for her, Hope has already run into Max at the jail and learned the truth about Billie's mysterious Roman "food poisoning." 
As she strays farther and farther from the Road of Sanity, Kristen tried to coax Susan into giving her little Elvis, saying it's the only way to protect him from DiMera influence. For some reason, Kristen thinks that she can use her step-dad's spawn to recapture John's love. While out buying baby things at Salem place {a slightly prema­ture decision, in our opinion), Kristen then ran into Marlena, who was immediately suspicious of her nemesis' purchases. Meanwhile, thanks to some sage advice from Celeste and Sister Mary Moira, Susan decided to lay low at the convent. Stefano doesn't know where she is, but Kristen does! 
Well, as they say, "like sands through the hourglass, so are the days of our lives." Good luck on finals everyone, and stay tuned for the appearance of Eileen Davidson's FOURTH character: Thomas Banks! Happy holidays! 
Email us with your "Days" comments or questions: 
Paulina.l@nd.edu, Freeman.19@nd.edu, or Howard.35@nd.edu 
' 

I. George of the Jungle· 
2. 
Men in Black 

3. 
Face/Off 

4. 
Chasing Amy 

5. 
Liar, Liar 

6. 
Jingle All the Way 

7. 
Breakdown 

8. 
Speed 2: Cruise Control 

9. 
Operation Condor I0. Batman & Robi'n 


Source: Blockbuster Video 
ltJUV~ll l-]IIIVIL' ~Ia j 


Monday, December 8, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 


Bears claim third victory of disappointing season 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 
Alonzo Spellman made a tackle and was booed. Bryan Cox sacked the quarterback and was booed. Rick Mirer merely entered the game. More boos. 
So much for home-field advantage. 
Despite getting such nasty treatment from their own fans -those who showed up, anyway -the Chicago Bears played their best all-around game this season in beating the Buffalo Bills 20-3 Sunday. 
"It's tough here in Chicago. If you have a winner, this is the best place in the world to play. But like anybody, no one wants to see mediocrity," said Erik Kramer, who atoned for two first-quarter interceptions by passing for 270 yards and two touchdowns. 
"I don't want to be a part of it and I don't blame them for not wanting to see it." 
Mediocrity would have been a kind word to describe the Bills (6-8), who were ripped by coach Marv Levy after failing to get a touchdown against the NFL's most generous defense. 
Buffalo gained only 160 yards, looking nothing like the high-powered offensive team that made the playoffs in eight of the last nine years and reached four Super Bowls. 
"It's the worst we've played that I can remember," said Levy, whose team has lost four of its last five games. "Never, never, not in the 12 years I've been here" have the Bills played so poorly. 
The loss, combined with victories by New England and Miami, eliminated the Bills from the playoff race. 
Chicago (3-11) has allowed 380 points, the most its 78­year history, but played well defensively for the second time in three games. After giving up at least 20 points in each of their first 11 games, the Bears have sandwiched two solid defensive performances-this game and a 13­7 victory over Tampa Bay -around a 55-20 Thanksgiving loss at Detroit. 
Many Bears credited an impassioned Saturday night talk by coach Dave Wannstedt, who is fighting for his job. 
"It was one of the best speeches he's ever given," defensive tackle Jim Flanigan said. "He told us that we've got nothing to lose, that we should have fun and make plays." 
Kramer, one of several potential free agents, said Wannstedt told numerous players that they were "audi­tioning" for 1998 jobs. 
The Bears were bolstered by the return of Spellman, who missed the previous nine games with a shoulder injury. During his absence, Spellman was suspended by the team for refusing to undergo recommended surgery and suspended by the NFL for failing to take a steroid test. 

The league action is under appeal, and Spellman said he has since passed the test, but he still was booed when his name was announced after making a second-quarter tackle. no-shows, perhaps fitting for two non-contenders playing called it "probably the most frustrating game I've 
"I don't think I have to win over fans," Spellman said. in freezing weather at Soldier Field. It was the fans' last played." "Fans look at the way you play and judge you by your chance to boo the Bears this season because the two Kramer, meanwhile, rebounded strongly. His 23-for-33 character off the field. And I think I've passed all those remaining games are on the road. Chicago finished 2-6 performance included second-quarter touchdown passes tests." at home. of 30 yards to Ryan Wetnight and 3 yards to Ricky 
On the following play, Cox was booed when credited The Bills, averaging an AFC-low 15.7 points, couldn't Proehl. Kramer also connected with Curtis Conway seven for a sack; fans consider him an overpaid troublemaker. take advantage of Kramer's early mistakes. Todd Collins times for 115 yards. Mirer, a bust since being acquired in an offseason trade, had a miserable day, consistently missing open receivers Raymont Harris rushed for 59 yards before leaving in got razzed when he trotted into the game in the fourth and completing 13 of 32 passes for 138. yards. the third quarter with a broken left leg. He finished the quarter to mop up for Kramer. "He had a bad day but he wasn't alone," Levy said. season with l ,033 yards, becoming the seventh back in 
Paid attendance was 66,944 but that included 27,160 Collins, in his first season as Jim Kelly's successor, Chicago history to reach 1 ,000. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES I I ~~~~---~  FOR RENT  Studio Apt. Large, completely turn., 1st fir., 1.5 mi. north of campus. $500/mo incl. utilities. To the right  PERSONAL  Katie-congratulations, you have proven yourself a worthy v-mail war opponent. Yees. :)  Industrial Park, has room to store 20-25 vehicles over the holiday recess-for a donation. ALL donations will then be given to  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  ·  tenant, rent & garage parking  000 Looking for a unique gift?  the Hope Rescue Mission.  
from NO campus on U.S. 31/33.  WALK TO CAMPUS  negotiable. 219-277-2211.  Bring in your favorite pictures  GO PACK!  Call233-7157.  
Call (616)684-4633.  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  and we'll create a personalized  
$195/PERSON  1,2,&3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!! I  WEDNESDAY, DEC. 10, IS THE  This is private property! Please  
Spring Break '98  232-2595  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS  THE COPY SHOP  LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER  identify yourself?!  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  PROPERTIES 272-6551  LaFortune Student Center  FOR THE SEMESTER.  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free  TUES. 3 PM IS THE DEADLINE  
Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Freer  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219 291 7153  FOR SALE  Would you like a tossed salad  FOR CLASSIFIED ADS.  Lori-How much Papa did you eat today?  
1-800-234-7007  today??????  good job women's soccer!  -Kelly  
www.endlesssummertours.com  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­ Near Campus-1338 Miner St.  
TER OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New  Skalcoholics: you guys were awe­ Pludog ...  
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break"  277-3097  Roof, Siding & Carpet.  Hey  some, thanks a million! -O.C.  
Spring Break Packages are going  Central Air & Full Basement  Sweet  Pluterrific ...  
fast. Stop in Anthony Travel and  Furn Rm $325/mo incl utilities,  $44,900 1-800-382-2952  Daisy!  Trish Sloma & Gordy Young  
check out the best Spring Break  washer/dryer. Privacy! Karen 284­ ROCK.  Plutonic?  
vacations around. Book your reser­ 6257 (day) 273-4517 (eve)  MAC Pert6rma 6214: CO-Rom,  ND Inquisition  
vations before Dec. 19 and save $!  Ethernet, & printer. $750 abo.  http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu  boy I hope that I get that job  Katie Drew, I forgive you ...  
Don't take a chance with an  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  X3735  We made Griffin do it  
unknown agency or some 1-800  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  Seven papers in six days ... hmmm ..  
number. Anthony Travel, Inc.  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  LAPTOP PC, PENTIUM, CDROM,  Are you afraid of flying? Would you  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
LaFortune Student Center  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  ETHERNET. $1150. X2207  prefer to drive home for Christmas?  LaFortune Student Center  If only I could be an English major  
ILOST & FOUND I  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  elec guitar w/case, $65. boss mea gtr fx $200. x2207  Do you need a ride anywhere east of here on 1-90? If you think I ask a lot of questions now, give me a try  ;/ High-Speed Copies ;/ Canon Color Laser Copies ;/ Digital Color Printing  and be able to look at Tommy Boy more often ...  
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  at"the end of finals week. I'm head­ ;/ Binding & Laminating  Betsy 4, Mike 0 -­rematch?!  
PROPERTIES.  BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES.  ing home on 1-90 to Massachusetts  ;/Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  Anytime, baby!  
ALL SPRINGBREAK locations.  and would love some good conver­ Phone 631-COPY  
CLASS RING FOUND ON NORTH  272-6551  Cancun, Jamaica, from $399,  sation for the trip. Or actually you  Who's playing Nebraska in Miami?!  
QUADI  Florida, from $89, Texas, Mazatlan,  can sleep. Whatever. Call Bryan at  
Bahamas. Register your group or  271-8624  I get my test back today. yeah!  1-800-NOGO-HOJO even if it is  
CALL 634-1101 TO CLAIM  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL272­ be our Campus Rep. 800-327-6013  attached to a Hooters.  
6551  www.icpt.com  i'm going home to watch simpsons  Worried about vandalism to your  
and X files, the best shows EVER  car over Christmas Break?  Kessler is my hero  
MADE.  Craft Tool & Mold, located in Airport  



..~~----~------.----~----------~~~--~..--~~-.~~--------------------------~------~----..--~~~~------------~------------~ 
Monday, December 8, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Dolphins hand Lions loss lVith last second field goal 
STUDENT DISCOUNTS MAY APPLY 
Ifyou're a math whiz, you'll know it's a great deaf (Ifyou're not, well, you can come along, too.) 
Hey, we all know that 
college students don't have a 
lot of money to throw around. 
That's where Amtrak® can 
help. We can get you home for 
the holidays to see 
family and friends with low 
fares and special student 
discounts. Student Advantage 
members save 15% on our 
already low fares. To see how 
much you can save 

call your travel agent or ­
1-800-USA-RAIL. Trains 
depart from the Amtrak 
station at 2702 W 
Washington Ave, 
South Bend, IN. 
1-800-96-AMTRAK 

*Fares shown are each way based on round-trip purchase apply to coach travel only and are subject to availability. Reservations may be required. No multiple discounts. Blackout dates may apply. Fares. schedules and restrictions are subject to change without notice. 

Record-breaking day for Detroit's Barry Sanders 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

The Miami Dolphins turned anotlwr record-breaking game by Barry Sanders into a heart­breaker for the Detroit Lions. 
Olindo Mare's 42-yard field goal on the final play gave Miami a 33-30 victory Sunday night despite Sanders' 137 yards rushing. 
Sanders, who carried 30 times, broke Marcus Allen's NFL record of 11 consecutive 100-yard games and took over the league rushing lead from Denver's Terrell Davis. 
"Sanders is probably the best back that ever played, and we got a win against him," Miami defensive line­man Shane Burton said. "That's big." 
The Dolphins (9-5) remained tied with New England for rirst place in the AFC East, and they could clinch a playoff berth with a win Sunday at Indianapolis. 
Detroit (7-7) lost for the first time in four games but stayed in the running for an NFC wild-card slot. 
Dan Marino moved Miami 54 yards in six plays in the final 68 seconds to set up Mare's fourth field goal. 
"Ooohhh, man alive," an exhilarated coach Jimmy Johnson said at the start of his postgame news conference. 
"Y'all stunned? We were on the edge of our seats. When we had to have it, Dan Marino was fantastic." 
Marino went 4-for-4 for 46 yards in the final drive. "It's something we work on all the time -going down and 
getting the field goal with no time left," Marino said. 
''I've just seen him do it so many times," said Detroit quarterback Scott Mitchell, a former backup in Miami. "You've just got to hope some­thing bad happens. That's really all you can do." 
Trailing 30-22 with 5:32 left, the Lions drove 96 yards in 13 plays to tie the game with 1:14 to go. Herman Moore caught a16-yard touchdown pass and a two-point conversion pass from Mitchell. 
Marino threw two touch­down passes and Miami forced five turnovers, while Detroit blew two extra-point attempts. 
"We made it hard on our­selves," Mitchell said. "You just can't turn the ball over against Miami." 
Marino completed 24 of 39 passes for 310 yards, includ­ing touchdowns of 27 and 23 yards to Troy Drayton. Marino also had an interception returned for a touchdown for the third time in three games. 
Detroit's Bryant Westbrook made his first career intercep­tion and raced 64 yards to make the score 23-22 with 14 minutes remaining. 
"He got a good jump on the ball and made a great play," Marino said. "You have to give him credit. All I know to do is to keep going 100 mph, and things worked out." 
Following Westbrook's score, the Lions blew their second extra-point attempt in a row when holder John Jett mishandled the snap to throw off kicker Jason Hanson's tim­ing, and his attempt bounced off the right upright. 
On the previous try, a bad snap by Tony Semple forced Jett to attempt a desperation pass, which fell incomplete to leave Miami with a 23-16 lead. Semple was subbing for 


.· 
Barry Sanders' 137 yards rushing broke the NFL's record for consecutive 1 00-yard rushing games. 
snapper Mike Compton, who Marino moved the Dolphins pass to trim Miami's lead to hurt his hand in the first half. 57 yards in the final 49 sec­23-16 in the third period. "Our special teams play was onds of the first half to set up Dolphins running back 
just atrocious," Lions coach Mare's 33-yard field goal for a Lawrence Phillips, hoping to Bobby Ross said. "That and 20-10 margin. Mare also con­restart his troubled career, turnovers were the difference nected from 19 and 21 yards. dressed but didn't play. The 
in the game." The Dolphins mounted former first-round draft 
Three Detroit fumbles cost touchdown drives of 70 and 76 choice was cut by St. Louis the Lions a potential touch­yards on their first two pos­last month and signed with down and led to two Miami sessions. Marino hit Drayton Miami last Tuesday. field goals. Mitchell fumbled with a 27-yard TD, and Karim "I wanted to play him if the twice -giving him 14 this Abdul-Jabbar scored on a 1-opportunity presented itself," year -and was intercepted yard run on fourth down. Johnson said. ''I'm looking for twice in the fourth quarter by Mitchell hit Johnnie Morton Lawrence to be a player for us Terrell Buckley. with a 35-yard touchdown next year." 
--~------~-~--------~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 8, 1997 
• SAINT MARYS BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's wialess in Roundball Classfc 
By ANGElA OLSEN 
Sainr M~'s Spores Ediror 
Despite a strong effort, the Saint Mary's .basketball team could not emerge from the annual Saint Mary's College Roundball Classic with a victory. 
The Belles hosted Huntington College, BethelCollege, and Indiana University-South Bend OUSB), the defending champion, during the weekend tournament held at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles lost both their matches, dropping their record to 2-4. The championship game was played on Saturday afternoon between Bethel College and IUSB with IUSB coming away with a 85-70 win. 
On Friday night, the Belles faced Bethel College to kick off the tournament play. Bethel walked away with a 7 4-54 win after a second-half scoring lapse by Saint Mary's; The Belles played with Bethel the frrst half, and at halftime, Saint Mary's was trailing by a mere point. 
Senior co-captain Julie McGill was a force thrpughout fhe game. Besides 19 points, McGill had 13 rebounds and five blocked shots. "McGill is always really strong," praised Saint Mary's assistant coach Lynn Wolfinger. "She works really hard no matter what." 
At the start of the second half. things took a turnJor the worse for the Belles. Head coach Dave Roeder's squad got off to a bad start to begin the second half of play, and for the frrst eight min· utes, the Bellesfailed to score. In the meantime, the Lady Pilots found the basket and built a huge lead. 
"We weren't creating opportu· nities for ourselves;" commented senior co-captain Brenda Hoban. "Our mistakes started to catch up on us. and they started to capitalize on what we were doing wrong." 
Turnovers were a major prob· lem for the Belles. The squad committed 34 which the Lady Pilots converted into 29 points. 
Senior point guard Darcy Nikes imished with eight points, five rebounds, and three assists. Hoban finished with eight points and eight rebounds. 
The Belles faced Huntington College on Saturday afternoon for the consolation title. Saint 
Mary's played an aggressive 
game, but could not pull out the 
win, losing in overtime, 76~67. 
Huntington jul!lped out ,to an 
early lead, but the Belles contin· 
ued to put pressure on the 
Foresters throughout the half. 
"We were ready to play with 
ourheads on t~day. Ye~~erday 
[against Beth~}]; • we W*'lren 't 
even in the gym," Nikes said 
Saturday. 
. Hoban hit two key threewpoint· 
ers for_ the. B,eJles to k~1;1p her 
squad close. With-seven minutes 
to go, Saint Mary's enjoyed its 
biggest lead, 22·18. Huntington 
quickly took b~}< con.trol t~:f!d at 
the<half the Belles were aown 
26-30. 
Huntington forward Amy 
Bechtel createdproblom~for the 
Belles all-aft~rno~n. _The s.?PflO· 
more scored agame7high 27 
points and took down 14 
rebounds. 
The second ha}fwas a.~e7-saw 
battle for. control; Both teams 
were connecting With the has· 
ket, and no one held a lead 
greater_ than. three _:P?ints 
1
·thrQughoutt~~ ihalf, \Vitj:i. the 
score tied withJZ seconds to go, 
Saint Mary's brought the ball 
down the court but could not get 
the ball into the hoop. 
Tied at 62 points; the game 
went into overtime. "The team 
really gelled today; that's really 
a difference from what we did .last night," sa.idWolrmger after the game. · Huntington could not be 
stopped, however, in the over· 
time play. The ~o.restersJI;l}PJ>ed 
to an early litad and n~ver 
looked back. The Belles could 
not find the basket and kept 
putting the Foresters on the free 
throW line. 
"We didn't care of the 
ball," said Nikes. "These things 
are so flxable it's frustrating." 
The Foresters hit their shots 
and created··aJea~ too big_·for the Belles to even challenge in the last minute. • "We didn't .exe­cute the way we should have," commented Wolfing{J)'. 
Hoban finished the • game With a team-high 17 points in 37:07 minutes of play. Also scoring in double figures for the J3.~lles 



wereMcGill with15 pomts and 16 rebounds, freshman Julie Norman with 14 points, and Nikes with 13 points andnine rebounds. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
a time of2:19.75. 
Hecords fell once again on the third day of the Notre Dame Invitational. Besides Gallo's record, live other pool and meet records were set, all by the Michigan women. Michigan swimmers set records in the 200-yard backstroke, 100-yard freestyle, 200-yard breaststroke, 200-vard butter­fly, and the 400-y~rd freestyle relay. 
icing on the Irish's cake. Sophomore Herb Huesman looked untouchable, winning both the one and three-meter diving events, while recording the eighth best Irish three-meter diving performance of 319.87. 
Freshman butterflyer Scott Koziar commented, "We focused on Air Force and expected the meet to be closer, but we blew them out. We just stepped it up." 
Coach Tim Welsh also antici­pated faster times from the Air Force Falcons, based on their high altitude training in Colorado Springs, an elevation of nearly 6,000 feet. Koziar credit­ed much of the team's success to the leadership of the upperclass­men, team unity, and an excel­lent work ethic. 


records with her time of 
16:44.91 in the 1,650-yard freestyle. Gallo's time also bested the NCM B Qualifying mark in the event. Sophomore Gina Ketelhohn was the only other winner for the Irish as she won the one-meter diving competition with 372.70 points. Notre Dame sophomore Shannon Suddarth again swam well as she finished second in the 200-yard breaststroke with 
a huge momentum boost. In the day's second race, freshman James Scott-Browne emerged from the pack and destroyed his own school record in the 1000 free-style, dropping over 10 sec­onds to a spectacular 9:25.74. 
Scott-Browne sped to another victory in the 500 free-style, while sophomore teammate John Lubker followed in second, as he also did in the 1000 free. 
Senior Ron Hoyer combined brute strength and finesse in his blazing 21.5 second 50 free-style win. Junior Scott Zumbach recorded yet another Irish victo­ry by edging out an Air Force swimmer in the 200 individual medley. Junior Chris Fugate won the 200 backstroke in 1:54.63, putting the proverbial 
Join the • • • 
Monday, December 8, 1997 
Bowl 
continued from page 20 
such negatives as the emotion­al and home-crowd advan­tages for LSU, offers the Irish the best opportunity to improve their ranking, some­thing that Notre Dame officials have consistently stressed. 
A game with the Tigers was also the only chance that the Irish would have had to crack the top 25 in the final rank­ings. LSU is ranked No. 15 in the nation in both the Associated Press and coaches' polls, while the Irish fall somewhere around No. 30 according to the number of votes they are currently receiving. 


The Observer· SPORTS 
Regionals 
continued from page 20 
Harris, followed by an ace moments later. Arkansas closed to 13-6, but a wide attack forced game point for the Irish. The Razorbacks bat­tled back from game point sev­eral times, but Harris finally pushed home the winner to give Notre Dame a 2-1 edge. 
Facing elimination, the Razorbacks fought hard in the final game. After taking a quick 7-3 lead, Arkansas used its offensive power in an attempt to hold off the Irish squad. The lead was stretched to 13-10 when Lee managed a crosscourt slide attack to give the team possession. 
Two kills from Treadwell and Lee brought the game to within one point, while two blocks gave the Irish a 14-13 lead. Arkansas battled back from three match points before tying the game, but a quick hit from Girton gave Notre Dame pos­session. 
A joint block from Treadwell and Girton gave the Irish the lead for good before Lee knocked down the final kill to finish off the stunning upset. 
"Arkansas was a very good team," Treadwell remarked. "But they seemed a little flat. It seemed like they weren't play­ing as if it was the last match of their season, and that's the way we were playing." 
Notre Dame was once again led by the duo of Lee and Harris, who each had 19 kills. Leffers overcame a rocky start in the first game to post 15 kills, while Treadwell tallied 13 kills on a team-best .321 hit­ting. 
Girton, after being in a recent 
hitting slump, helped the cause 

The Observer/Joe Stark · 

Lindsay Treadwell played a key role in the team's wins over Liberty and Arkansas, an upset victory that put the Irish in the regionals. 
with eight kills. With the loss, eight Notre Dame losses this Arkansas ends its season at 30-season. 6, as well as an 18-match win­"It was a really exciting ning streak that stretches back match," Brown said about the to Oct. 5. It also marks the first win. "We fell behind, but we loss at home for the were able to come back very Razorbacks since midway well. We played with more through the 1996 season, a emotion during that match than total of 18 home contests. we have all year. Our intensity 
The win against the and emotion were key in the Razorbacks also ends three win." years of Notre Dame defeats at Notre Dame, now 25-8 on the the hands of nationally-ranked season, will head to the Central opponents. The last time the Regional for the first time since Irish volleyball team defeated a 1995. The team will head to ranked team was a 3-0 victory Madison, Wis., next weekend to over then-No. 15 Colorado on face No. 4 Wisconsin, who Sept. 24, 1995. Ranked oppo­defeated the· Irish early in the nents have accounted for all season in four games. 
TAKE A CHANCE & DART SMART These Freshmen did and they are taking off to New Heights! 


ERIC ScHEARER SIEGFRIED 


CARRIE 0TTSEN HOLY CROSS 



AS 112-The· Air Force Today (Freshmen) AS 212-The Development of Airpower (Sophomores) 
THIS IS YOUR CHANCE TO EXPERIENCE AIR FORCE ROTC. • • 
-Discover a world of opportunity  -Take the PT challenge  
-Improve leadership abilities  -Ultimate Frisbee  
Service  -Experience Teamwork  

IT MAY BE THE BEST CHANCE YOU'LL EVER TAKE! *Call now to learn more about Air Force ROTC and inquire about scholarship opportunities: 1-4676 
-http://www.nd.edu/-afrotc 
-

·~--~-­

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S BASKEBALl 
Irish undefeated in Big East 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
For the first time since entering the Big East confer­ence, the Notre Dame men's basketball is undefeated in conference play. 
The Irish defeated Pittsburgh 73-69 at Fitzgerald Field House on Saturday to win their first Big East game of the season and their first conference opener in three years. More importantly, it was only the third conference victory on the road for the Irish in 21 total tries. 
The Irish victory was pro­pelled by the play of forward Pat Garrity, who had a game­high 28 points and 15 
> rebounds. It was no ·surprise to see the 6-foot-9 senior lead the Irish: however, the man­ner in which he did so looked like something straight out of the movie Hoosiers. Garrity scored Notre Dame's final five points of the game 
Cavs hold off late Laker rally 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 

Wesley Person scored 22 points and the Cleveland Cavaliers withstood a furious fourth-quarter rally to beat the Los Angeles Lakers 94-84 Sunday night for their eighth consecutive victory. 
The Lakers lost for the first time at the Forum this season after eight victories. The Cavs' streak includes six straight road wins. 
Kobe Bryant almost single­handedly brought the Lakers back, scoring 14 of his 21 points at the start of the fourth quarter when they trailed by 19. While Bryant was hot, Cleveland man­aged just five points over the first seven minutes of the period. 
The Lakers are the highest scoring team in the NBA, aver­aging 108.2 points, but they never got going against the Cavs, who are holding opponents to 42 percent shooting. Los Angeles was even worse, shooting 36 percent. 
Elden Campbell, who strug­gled against 7 -foot-3 Cavs rookie Zydrunas Ilgauskas, hit a 
-
from the line and claimed every defensive rebound of the last two minutes of play. 
Garrity's performance even left his opponents in awe. 
"Now you know why he was [Big East] player of the year last year and why he's going to be player of the year again," Pittsburgh's Vonteego Cummings commented. Cummings' performance, although overshadowed by Garrity's, was nothing to dis­miss. 
Despite a crucial five-second call against him with 33 sec­onds left and a score of 70-69 in favor of the Irish, Cummings, who is also a con­tender for Big East player of the year, led the Panthers with 27 points and five steals. 
Still, the Irish used their big men-Garrity and junior cen­ter Phil Hickey -to overpow­er the Panthers and come up with the win. 
Hickey contributed 14 points and seven rebounds to the 
jumper and Eddie Jones made 
two free throws to cut 
Cleveland's lead to 83-79 with 
2:18 remaining. 
Person gave the Cavs some breathing room with a 3-pointer that increased their lead to 88­80 with 1:02 to play. 
Down the stretch, Cleveland managed without Shawn Kemp, who fouled out with 3:48 remaining. Ilgauskas sat down 

INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

RECRUITING DATES: February 2, 3, 4, 1998 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
US 31 NORTH 273-3890 
Every Monday 
14" Cheese Pizza for $7.95 ($1.00 per each additional topping) All-You-Can-Eat Pizza and Pasta for $5.00 
Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4:00-10:00 Fri.-Sat. 4:00-11:00 
Mon.-Fri. Lun:::h 11:00-1:30 
6:00-9:30 

Come and watch Monday Night Football 
Irish effort, but more impor­tantly, he was able to rebound from an airball at the free­throw line with 2:11 left in the game and help secure the win for the Irish. 
The Irish held the lead for nearly all of the game, but Pittsburgh was relentless in making a run at it. The Panthers were able to cut the deficit to three in the last five minutes of the game, but with the aid of Garrity's late-game performance, the Irish were able to hold onto the win. 
The victory over the Panthers served as a confi­dence boost for the Irish as a team -one that will hopefully carry them into their next conference game when they host St. John's at the end of the month. 
"We know what our record on the road is, so this one is huge," Ilickey said. "It gives us confidence. It gives us a chance to put a nice little streak together now." 
after picking up his fifth foul with 4:08 left. 
The Lakers struggled after Bryant cooled off, making just four field goals in the final 5:38. 
Cleveland blew out the Lakers in the third quarter, twice taking 23-point leads. The Cavs opened with a 20-6 run, including eight by Person, for a 68-47 lead that triggered widespread booing by Lakers fans. 
Monday, December 8, 1997 


The Observer/John Daily Senior forward Pat Garrity once again showed Why he was named pre-season Big East player of the year, scoring a game-high 28 points. 
AGiftfor Mom&Dad 
or 

Someone Special 

Phone orders welcome 
Order early as these will be sellouts again this year Toll Free 888-290-5118 
Matthew Erickson jewelers 
5118 Main  4421 Fox Valley Drive  
Downers Grove  Aurora I Naperville  
Downtown  Outside the mall  




----~--·--,·---~-------........, 
Monday, December 8, 1997 
• HOCKEY 
Irish skate to victories over Western Michigan 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
The Notro Dame hockey tPam had a huge weekend, as head coach Dave Poulin's team steamrolled Western Michigan for 
.----,.,-----, two Central Collegiate Hockey Association victories. The Irish (8­f>-2 overall, 5-5-2 CCHAJ have no Karr CCIIA games rema1nmg before their Christmas break, and Poulin 
was happy to head into the went and got break batting .500. it." 
"It is huge to get these two ''I'm feeling wins this weekend and head more confident into the break at 5-5-2," he about myself," said. "For the CCI-lA, that is a the freshman good record, and if you look at forward said. our schedule, we have played "The pace of some of the toughest teams in the game was the league already." the biggest 
Freshman Dan Carlson adjustment I played a major role in both had to make. wins, scoring the game-winner The game on Friday night and starting moves a lot the scoring barrage on faster at this Saturday night. level." 
"Carlson was just terrific," Carlson was Poulin said. "On our third moving fast goal, he just went and got the Friday night, puck no questions asked. He as was fresh­
The Observer/Joe Stark 
man Matt Van 

On Saturday, capta[n Steve Noble iced the win with his third-period goal. His senior Arkel. Van leadership along with outstanding play of the freshmen propelled the Irish to victory. 

Arkel struck first for the Irish, and 21 sec­onds later, Carlson scored, giving the Irish a quick 2-0 lead. From there, the Irish defense took over, allowing the Broncos only 12 shots on net. Junior Forrest Karr turned away all but one, and the Irish skated out of Kalamazoo with a 2-1 victory. 
The Boys of Winter, who at an average age of 19 years and 11 months are the sec­ond-youngest team in Division I hockey, stormed out to a 3-1 lead in the first period. Again, it was Carlson who got things rolling. During a Bronco power play, he stole the puck off a Bronco defender and walked in on Bronco goalie Matt Barnes and blasted a shot past him for a 1-0 Irish lead. 
"I took a shot right away," Carlson explained, "and I don't think that he was ready for that." 
But the Broncos tied the 
game on an egregious defen­
9PM -MIDNIGHT 
sive mistake. Two Irish defenseman collided near the blue line, yielding a Bronco breakaway. Senior goaltender Matt Eisler made the initial save, but the rebound found the back of the net for a 1-1 tie. 
Junior Brian Urick answered minutes later, deftly grabbing a pass out of the air with his hands and waltzing in on Barnes. Barnes made the ini­tial save, but Urick's second­effort beat a sprawled-out Barnes. 
Junior defenseman Benoit Cotnoir later scored on a slap shot just inside the blue line that traveled through traffic and somehow found its way past Barnes. 
"It was a rough period for us," Bronco head coach Bill Wilkinson. "Every time we made a mistake, bang, it was in our net." 
But Wilkinson's Broncos kept coming. They scored with eight seconds left in the 
second period, leaving the Boys tentatively clinging to a 3-2 lead. 
An intense third period ensued. But in the end. senior captain Steve Noble responded with the game-icing goal. "That was great senior leader­ship by Noble," Poulin explained. "You just love to see that." 
Sophomore sens<j.tion Ben Simon, who has been Mr. Consistency for the Irish this season, set up the goal with a beautiful play. 
He and Noble came into the Broncos' zone on a two-of'­one, with Simon carrying the puck. He held it as long as possible before dishing it to Noble, who had only to redi­rect it into the net. 
"We took advantage of our chances tonight," reflected Poulin. "We were very oppor­tunistic. This win felt good. We worked hard for it, and we deserved it." 
They certainly did. 


University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
;4 Student eham6et 


<R_ecltal 
featuring works by Ludwig van Beethoven Robert Schumann Johannes Brahms Gabriel Faure Louise Talma 
Free admission 

Interested in Helping Make Junior Parents Weekend '98 a Success? 
3:00 p.m. 'lu.esdtt¥, 1:Jecem6et 9 Attttett6et Au.dltotlu.m 'lhe Sttlte ,111.u.seu.sm o Att 
-
.. 

join the Sophomore ]PW Committee! 
Questions? Call Sarah,at 4-0830 

r­
, 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 8, 1997
I 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALl

I • 
I I Irish spent by Sales' performance in loss to UConn 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Spans Editor 
"1 think Nykesha Sales was the best player in the nation today." 
That was how Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw summed up Saturday's loss to the second-ranked Connecticut Huskies. UConn's superstar had a perfect game, hitting all 10 of her field goal attempts for 21 points in just 26 min­utes as she paved the way for the Huskies' 78-59 victory. 
"I think she did everything a good player is suppose to do," McGraw said of Sales' play. "She got to us right from the get go, and we didn't have an answer for her." 

-
Sales ignited UConn in the early going, scoring eight 
points in the first four minutes of play. The Huskies did most of the damage from the paint on easy looks, as they had 31 points with 9:38 left in the first half. 
In the first 10 minutes, Notre Dame was plagued with some­thing that had been a problem in the past several games ­turnovers. McGraw's squad turned the ball over 12 times in the first half with most of those coming in the first 10 minutes. 
The Irish found themselves on the short end of a 33-16 score with just over eight min­utes left, but they managed to take Sales out of the game. Sales picked up her second foul in just eight minutes of play in the first half and was forced to watch on the side­lines. 
Sophomore guard Niele Ivey and senior co-captain Mollie Peirick led the Irish on a 14-2 run to end the half down by just five. Ivey and Peirick both had seven first-half points. 
"I was really pleased with Niele Ivey today," McGraw said. 
"I thought she did a great job coming off the bench and giv­ing us a spark." 
In a physical and sometimes sloppy game, in which the teams totaled 46 turnovers, Ivey was a spark on both ends of the court with 11 total points and six steals. 
''I've been in a slump since the beginning of the season," Ivey said. "It [the slump) start­

-ed with my defense. I got a 
couple steals and got some confidence and did some things that I hadn't been doing, and I've been trying to regain my confidence from being out all of last year." 
Notre Dame went into the locker room with all the momentum after Julie Henderson scored on a layup as the buzzer sounded in the first half to bring her squad to within striking distance. 
"I feel that we came out less intimidated, and we had a lot of energy and that showed in Niele's confidence," forward Kari Hutchinson said. "I think these games will be beneficial for us." 
But the second-ranked team in the nation answered the Irish challenge. The Huskies came out of the locker room and went right back to where they were most effective ­working the ball inside to Sales. Sales played 18 minutes of the second half which com­pletely changed the flow of the game. 
"I think they are a complete­ly different team without her on the floor," McGraw said. 
When UConn's leader came back on the floor, Notre Dame lost its leader as Peirick, who had a team high 13 points, was forced out of play for the first five minutes of the second with a bloody nose. 
"I thought it hurt us when Mollie Peirick went out of the game," McGraw said. "We need to have her on the floor. She's our leader and has been doing a great job in that role." 
The Huskies scored the first nine points of the half. Finally, Sheila McMillen's jumper with just under 16 minutes left broke the ice in the second half. Despite a couple of three­pointers from Peirick, Ivey, and Hutchison, Notre Dame could not put together a run as UConn had the answer for every threat, and the Irish could not get over the turnover bug. 
"It's a problem that we're having, and it's been a prob­lem," McGraw said about the turnover issue. "We're work­ing on that, and it's a mental thing. I think when we're in a stretch like we are right now with a lot of traveling and tough competition for a young team, we're really testing their mettle right now." 
RENAISSANCE at Rockne's 
Georgia's "Ramblin' Wreck," 'Neath 1-r-i-s-h H-a-1-o -0-e-c-k, RENEWED ROCKNE'S STADIUM! 
oh LIGHT ! GOLDEN DOME ! Proud e-1-e-v-e-n t-i-m-e-s home ­The NATIONAL CHAMPIONS ! 
SORIN to SIEGFRIED ­C-a-m-p-u-s -w-i-d-e s-y-n-e-r-g-y HAILS the THIRD MILLENIUM I 
"Renaissance at Rockne's" -a visual Fight Poem in tribute to Notre ·Dame, its people and programs at this time of Thanksgiving ... For Michael '95, Nancy '96, and Caroline Fenocketti. ©1997 Leon Fenocketti. 

The Huskies enjoyed 49 percent shooting from the field, while the Irish shot just 36 percent and the team's leading scorer, Sheila McMillen, had a dif­ficult time finding open looks, finishing with just five points. 
"I definitely think they defending her yery well," McGraw said. "They did what they needed to do to shut her down." 
After Connecticut's nine­point run to start the sec­ond half, the two teams battled each other the rest of the way as the lead remained around 14 points for most of the second half. 
Things will get a bit easi­er for the Irish, though not much. 
Notre Dame will take on two more ranked oppo­nents as it travels to Wisconsin tonight before returning home on Wednesday when it hosts Purdue. Hopefully for the Irish, they will be able to build on this effort against Connecticut. 
"In spurts, we did a lot of good things as a team,·~ McGraw commented. "I think we can learn from this." 
"I think it was a real good experience because we learned that we can play with these big teams," Ivey said. "But we need to get control of the turnovers, and !.think we beat our­selves tonight. 
"We had a couple spurts and then we'd turn it over and then we'd put our heads down. I think we can learn a lot from this game and get our heads back up and play hard against all the other tough competition that we have on our schedule." 

ALUMNI~SENIOR CLUS 
WIEDNIESDAY NITE 
SKALCOHOLIKS 
GIVIE--.AWAYS 
SPECIALS MUNCHIES 
SPONSO~IELJ  8 y  ...  
WVFI  WSNLl  
CLASS  

ALUMNI-SENID~ CLUB 
Monday, December 8, 1997 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 


DILBERT 
WH£.N '<OU'R.'E. WITH A WOMA.N I CvERY­TH I NG '<OU SA.Y WILL LOWER HER OPINION 
ACROSS 21 Fakes 
30 Ship's heading to a fault 31 --Hill (James Monroe's 

1 Righteousness 
9 Market grp 
home)

15 Schubert song 
32 Ashby of the 

16 C1ty near 
SO's Astros 
Syracuse 
33 Fat. in France 

11 Judged. in a 
35 North Dakota 
way 
native or city

18 Denver athlete· 
38 Mother of Levi 19 Storage area!--and Judah 
20 Ref. book 39 Bank acct. entry 2270's extrem1st 40 Not classical grp. 
42 Comfort. in a 23 "--Three way L1ves" 
45 Cinch 24 Former TV 46 Not co-host 
47 Hungarian 25 Funeral stand patriot Nagy 26 Cyberspace 4B Bangkok abbr. money 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

e,uT I CAN GIVE \-\ER COf'I\PLlf'I\ENTS, RIGHT? 
NO! THAT'S THE WORST THING! 
49 Germany's Dortmund----­Canal 
50 Quite a while 
51 Actress North 
53 Fortune 
55 Less relaxed 
57 Japanese floor covering 
sa Olympics sport discontinued after1908 
59 Hit song of 1968 
60 Swore 
DOWN 
1 Sci-fi enemy 2 Like some speeches JAirport employee. at 
limes 4 Fix 5 Caper 
14 Its capital is 6 More than Doha 
upsets 

1  a  
The Observer • TODAY  page 19  
DAN SULLIVAN  YOUR HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  

Aries: Your face is your for­tune today, and your heart is on your sleeve. You can easily make your future happen. Remember that people will notice everything you do. 

Taurus: Expect to be frustrat­ed by forces beyond your control. The things you most want to complete are stalled beyond moving. Instead of seeking to dis­tract yourself. turn inward to calm down. 
Gemini: This is a good day to gather friends and aquaintances MIKE PETERS 
into an activity-oriented group. Your leadership skills put you in charge of the proceedings. Make something happen quickly today. 
Cancer: Do not expect those who wield power over you to be rational today. Just do the job you were hired or contracted to do. Without seeming to linger, take the time you need to get it right the first time. 
Leo: The Aries Moon puts a fire under you and sends you springing into action. Start mak­ing real plans about something you've just been thinking about. Everything turns out fun today, 
SCOTT ADAMS 
even the serious stuff. Virgo: Be careful what you eat, and be careful whose story you
WOI"\EN KEEP A. LOG 
believe. Stomachs and egos are Of ALL COMPLIMENTS. 
especially sensitive today. Ask for proof if a friend confesses an
THEY A.NAL'YZE. THE 
unbelievable secret. 

PATTERN TO IDENTifY 
Libra: Check the details of all legal issues today. Question the motives of a bully. Whether in business or in the supposed com­fort of your relationship, you could be up against a force more powerful than you imagined. 
Scorpio: Other may accuse you of excessive hair-splitting today. Let them complain -it is better to be safe than sorry when it comes to details. Use this state o mind to catch up on your filing and record keeping. 
Sagittarius: Today is a time for romance and creativity. If you are not already having fun, what in the world are you waiting for? Children and young adults prove to be your best teachers. 
Capricorn: Today your focus is on personal property. A real estate deal may be on shaky ground that conceals a money pit. If you must change some­thing in your empire, consider rearranging the furniture. 
Aquarius: Communication will be problematic today. Meetings are missed, advice is misunder­stood, and e-mail vanishes into a black hole. Minor car and com­puter troubles somehow make you glad to be alive. 
Pisces: Your sudden burst o materialism and ambition sur­prises everyone -even you. You understand that you have been denying certain needs for far too lang. Others recognize your knowledge in new ways. 
. . members for its 
• which sings at the 
Basilica of the Sacred are well::ome, and ·· Monday$ preceding 
22, ·from 7 p.m. to 8:30 Sciences building 
the University's only , will present their December 9, at 8 {\Uilll1SS1(m if free and open 

Wanted: Reporters, 
42 "Hippolyle et 48 Castilian kisses 
photographers and
Aricie" . so"Look--.. composer 
51 Faction 43 Sham 52 Wonderland 44 Phoebe's sister character 
editors.
on "Friends" 54 Chou En--·­46 Salamanders 56 A Turner 
Join The Observer
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 {75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
staff.
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Makin' Life Happy 
Government 
e l 
• 

-
7German pronoun 8 More angry 9Cool 10 "... some kind of--?" 11 Line part: Abbr. 12 Eats with enthusiasm 13 Astaire and others 


21 Iraqi, most likely 24 Net 25 Jom 27 Trig function 2a Is smart 29 So much, 
musically 340ilof-­3G Beekeeper 37 Fast food 
request 41 Faded (out) 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, December 8, 1997 

• VOllEYBAll 
Irish advance to regionals with upset victory 
By BILL HART to the NCAA Central Regional. game easily. Sports Writer The Irish began their quest Harris led the Irish with 17 for postseason excellence with kills on .371 hitting. She was 
After two losses to highly one of the most dominating aided by fellow senior Jaimie ranked opponents ended the post-season wins in the pro­Lee, who totaled 14 kills on 31 longest winning streak of the gram's history, defeating the attempts. Notre Dame's mid­season. many doubted whether Liberty Flames in three games, dle blockers continued to make N o t r e 
15-9, 15-3, 15-2. a strong impact, as junior Dame's vol­The Flames jumped out to an Lindsay Treadwell had seven leyball team early 8-4 lead in the first game kills on .462 hitting while Mary couh! carry before the Irish offensive Leffers totaled eight kills and the momen­stormed back, led by senior four blocks. With the loss, tum to move hitter Angie Harris. Despite Liberty ends its season at 26-9 far into the strong back row attacks by on the season. NCAA tour­Liberty, the Irish proceeded to "I think we had some first­nament. go on a 11-1 run to take the game jitters," head coach However, in Harris first game. After regaining its Debbie Brown said about the a way typi-composure, Notre Dame went match. "Liberty gave a great cal for the Irish, the team on a 9-0 run to open the sec­effort-they didn't give up answered its critics with two ond game, and used the and that was good for us to impressive wins as it advanced momentum to take the third see. Once we were able to set­
tle down, we were fine." 
The win againsf the Flames set up a Saturday clash between the Irish and eigh­teenth-ranked Arkansas. The Razorbacks defeated their state rival Arkansas Little-Hock in another lopsided match, 15­11,15-3, 15-3. However, in one of the most surprising upsets of the tournament, the Irish overran the Hazorbacks in four games, by a score of 9­15, 15-7, 15-10, 16-14. 
The opening game was tied 
game sweep of Liberty. 

storming back. LeiTers took later, a long attack by
on a seven-point run, high­
advantage of an overpassed set Arkansas completed the 13-0
lighted by three straight ser­
to give the team possession, Irish run. After a stalled
vice points from Razorback 
followed by a kill by Treadwell. comeback by the Hazorbacks,
Kim Storey. The Irish attempt­
After an Arkansas timeout, Notre Dame evened the match
ed to rally but were unable to 
Leffers and Treadwell sus­at one game apiece. 
battle back from game point as 
tained the rally with a joint In the third game., both
the host team took a quick 1-0 
block while a kill from Ilarris teams battled to a stalematelead. 
pushed the Irish ahead 7-5. before the Irish tallied eight
In the second game, 
Lee served six straight points straight points and 11 of the
Arkansas kept its momentum 
for the Irish, followed by four next 12, sparked by a kill from 
and took a 5-l lead before a 
straight points from Leffers,
balanced Irish offensive came 
for a 13-5 Irish lead. Moments see REGIONALS I page 15 

The Observer/Joe Stark After losing the first game, Jaimie Lee and the Irish stormed back to win the final three games against Arkansas. 
• fOOTBAll 
Notre Dame heading back to Bayou for rematch 
Shreveport, Louisiana December 28, 1997 
• 
Irish fall to No. 2 Connecticut see page 18 

• 
Garrity leads Irish over Pittsburgh see page 16 



By BRIAN REINTHALER Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, with LSU. Assistant Sporrs Editor Fla., was the most prestigious "As far a playing LSU again, and most coveted by Irish sup-it would be a good game but 
In a decision that surprised porters. we've played LSU," Denson some and disappointed others, Junior tailback Autry explained. "Usually when you Notre Dame accepted an invi-Denson was also excited by a play a game in a season, its tation to the Poulan potential invitation to play in like a chapter in a book. Once Weedeater Independence Bowl his home state of Florida on you get past it, you don't go on Sunday. The game will be,-------------------, back. You don't read chapter 
played on Dec. 28 in Shreveport, La., and will showcase a rematch between the Irish and Lousiana State. 
The Independence Bowl was 
.... 
-
believed to be the most proba­ble post-season contest for the Irish until it became evident that LSU would be the Irish opponent. Judging from state­ments made by Irish athletic director Michael Wadsworth during halftime of Notre Dame's final home game ver­sus West Virginia, it appeared that any bowl scenario that 
would create a rematch situa­tion for the Irish would be avoided. 
Of the remaining bowls to which Notre Dame had a chance of receiving a bid, the NewYear's Dav. 
"I hope we go to the Gator Bowl, bad," commented Denson. We'd get to play a higher-ranked team." 
Before Sunday's announce­ment, he expressed his lack of interest in another showdown 
vs. LSU, Independence Bowl, December 28, 1997, 
Shreveport, La., 8 p.m. (ESPN) 
at Wisconsin, NCAA Regionals, Saturday, December 13, 7p.m. 

three, then go back and read chapter one again. I'd like to play someone else, but I'd just be excited to have a chance to play." 
When it was announced that North Carolina would not be invited to an Alliance bowl, however, the Tar Heels were automatically slotted to play in the Gator Bowl, removing any possibility of a Jan. 1 game featuring Notre Dame. Carolina is required to make the trip to Jacksonville because of its commitment as the No. 2 team in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
The Independence Bowl eon-test with the Tigers, despite 
see BOWL I page 15 
Women's Basketball, at Wisconsin, Tonight, 7 p.m. 
Men's Basketball, vs. Marathon (Exhibition) December 9, 7:30 p.m. 
at Wisconsin, December I 0, 7 p.m. 
vs u
;PI/ • ,
»· ....... ,_,.,..........~.,:­
..~ .. /' 






