
Wednesday, December 10, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 68 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Student leaders from other schools defend Griffin 
Other student presidents speak only well of him 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Editor-in-Chief 
At the heart of Morrissey senior Jeremy Lingenfelser's petition to recall student body president Matt Griffin from office is the belief that 

alleged misconduct, he is an "embar­rassing" represen­tative of the stu­dent'S interests. 
But student lead­
ers at other universities say just the opposite about Griffin. 
While Notre Dame administrators have remained neutral in dis­cussing Griffin's effectiveness, Duke student body president Lino Marrero and Boston College ·vice president Kristin Pugh say Griffin has been a responsible leader in working with them this semester. 
Marrero, who has collaborated with Griffin for the p.ast six weeks on a nationwide student govern­ment leadership conference, said that Griffin has been diligent in pushing forward the idea of the conference. 
"[Our working relationship] has been very positive. He's been easy to work with," Marrero said. "I've had no problems with him and no doubts about him." 
The idea of the student government conference developed in October when Marrero: whose sister Catherine is a sophomore in Pasquerilla West Hall, visited her at Notre Dame. Marrero and Griffm met and discussed several problems that both had encountered in their respec­tive roles in student government. 
According to Marrero, Griffin sug­gested that the student government officials of the top 25 schools, based on the rankings of U.S. News & World Report, meet for a weekend in February at Notre Dame to dis­cuss the problems common to stu­dent governments nationwide. 
University officials, concerned that Notre Dame's student government could not organize such a complex conference in such a short time, denied Griffin's request that Notre Dame student government formally sponsor the event. This was con­veyed to him in a letter written Dec. 3 by Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for Student Affairs. 
But Duke student government plans to continue forth with the conference, according to Marrero. 
"Matt opened up an opportunity that we could get involved in," Marrero said. "To help create a conference to discuss these issues is a, certain sign" of effective lead­ership. 
see GRIFFIN I page 8 


Student body president Matt Griffin has recently run into problems. He faces a possible recall election next semester which could remove him from office. Here he addresses the Student Senate two months ago. 

•
tn 
' 

\ 
on •' 
BASILICA.BELLS TURN 145 THIS YEAR 
Observer Photos/Kevin Dalum 
T
he bells in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart h·ave been ringing the hour for nearly a century and a half. 

'WE HOPE THAT [THE CARILLON's] 
SOUND WILL NOT ONLY CALM AND GLADDEN HUMAN HEARTS, BUT THAT IT WILL ALSO CALL THOSE WHO HEAR IT TO FAITH AND THE CHRISTIAN TRUTH.' 
POPE JOHN PAUL I/ IN A JANUARY 1992 LEITER 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
Assistant News Ediror 
At the request of John Michael D'Arcy, bishop of Fort Wayne­South Bend, Pope John Paul II officially gave what was then Sacred Heart church the status of Minor Basilica on Jan. 17, 1992. 
The letter bearing this news, written by the pope and signed by the Secretary of State of the Vatican, included a reference to the building's carillon of bells, the oldest in North America. 
"We know that the pleasant harmony of [America's oldest] carillon repeatedly resounds from Sacred Heart. We hope that its sound will not only calm and gladden human hearts, but that it will also call those who hear it to faith and Christian truth and that it will stir their spirits," reads the translation from Latin. 
The carillon, a collection of 23 bells, was originally installed in 1852 in a wooden tower which stood in front of the "Old Church." The carillon is now kept in the bell tower of the Basilica, where it chimes every 15 minutes, sounds the hour, rings for the Angelus at noon every day and plays music. 

Also kept in the tower is a seven-ton great bell named St. Anthony of Padua. Originally, thick ropes supported and were responsible for swinging the enormous clapper. Although the ropes still hang from old wooden rafters, the bell is now rung elec­tronically. It rings only a few times a year for special feasts and occasions. 
A narrow, dark staircase leads from the vestibule to several suc­cessive landings and crawl­spaces that were once traversed regularly for the operations of the bells. A small room on one of these landings contains a key­board that controls the carillon. Although this keyboard is still operational, a newer one is con­veniently located in the sacristy. 
Stairs provide access all the way to the top of the tower, but the narrowness and age of the staircases inhibit the nervous visitor from exploring these highest points. 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Senators: We 
.I 
~

must address 
1 


recall petition , 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
In what student body vice president Erek Nass described as an informal meeting, the Student Senate discussed last night whether or not it actually had to consider the peti­tion to recall student body president Matt Griffin. 
"Just because there are 15 percent of the students signing it doesn't mean that the petition isn't nonsensical," argued Chip Warden, senator from Fisher Hall. "It is easy to get people to sign something. If everything has been explained, then we can't entertain this petition because it is without grounds." 
The petition, being circulated by Jeremy ~ I Lingenfelser, a senior from Morrissey Hall, cites a number of alleged abuses of the office of student body president as grounds for recall, including mismanagement of student government funds. 
"If 15 percent of the student body signs this petition, the Student Union is obliged to conduct a recall vote," said Tim Keller, Student Senate parlimentarian, whose job is to advise the senate on constitutional mat­ters. 
Angie Sowar, senator from Lewis Hall, agreed. "The constitution says that all peti­tions must be considered," she said. "It does not say that we can judge the reasons for the petition, which was approved by Student Affairs." 
The senate finally decided that they could not ignore the petition if it does get the 15 percent support that is required. Keller also 
see SENATE I page 8 



page 2 
• iNSm£ COLUMN 
Enough of this already 
Unfortunately. some students in Notre Dame or Saint Mary's have decided that it is okay for them to commit what would be considered major crimes outside of this campus. 
I refer to the series of 

prank calls and death Matthew Loughran 
threats that people Associate News Editor 
have received on cam­
pus this year. 
When Stacey Fuller and Catherine Syner 
made a bold, if misguided, attempt to speak 
their minds on Saint Mary's involvement 
with Notre Dame,students called them and 
threatened to beat them up or worse. 
Dan Sullivan inadvertently upset a large 
contingent of students, across racial lines, 
with a cartoon in The Observer, and he was 
threatened. 
Now Jeremy Lingenfelser, the student 
who is trying to have Matt Griffin recalled 
as student body president, has been threat­
ened by some unknown phone assailants. 
This most recent offense is no worse than 
the other two, but it shows that these 
threats are not just a rare occurrence. 
I am not defending Lingenfelser's petition, 
nor am I saying that he should just be 
ignored. But threatening to kill the guy is 
just a little over the line. 
What kind of a person would threaten a 
fellow student with death just for being 
politically active and expressing his opin­
ions about Griffin? 
Maybe the phone calls were a joke. But if 
they were, the person telling the joke has 
an extremely warped sense of humour. 
There is nothing funny about sitting at 
home, preparing for exams and answering 
the phone to hear someone describe in 
detail how they want to cut you up. 
Notre Dame Security/Police can only do so 
much to try and catch the people responsi­
ble for pulling such a disgusting prank. 
They can tap phones and ask students to 
report any incidences of harassment. But 
these methods have their limits. They 
require the offending student to call and 
harass the person whose phone is tapped 
more than once. 
Whether these calls and threats were 
made in anger, or induced by alcohol or a 
bet does not matter. There is no excuse. 
To those people that have made the deci­
sion to pick up a phone and express their 
displeasure with someone by threatening 
them with physical violence, you are not 
brave. 
It would have been truly daring to leave 
your name and phone number instead of 
saying that you are calling on behalf of 
someone else. 
If you have a problem with anything that 
a student does on this campus, the answer 
is not to call up that student and threaten 
them with violence. 
You can calmly discuss the issue with the 
person over e-mail or by contacting them 
on the phone. 
Ifyou don't like Lingenfelser's view of 
Matt Griffin, talk to your Student Senator 
about changing the constitution to make the 
guidelines for recall stricter. 
There is always another way. 
Violence is the refuge of the weak mind. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Accent Dave Freddoso Nora Meaney Anne Marie Mattingly Rachel Torres Anne Hosinski Graphics 
Sports Pete Cilella Brian Kessler Production Viewpoint Tara Grieshop 
Dan McDonough Lab Tech 
Brandon Candura 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duriQg exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press, All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Amarillo 47 24 Fargo 25 24 Kinnebunkport 30 19 Boise 39 29 Great Falls 33 14 Lubbock 53 32 Cincinnati 37 27 Helena 26 7 Midland-Odessa 57 41 Duluth 30 23 Iowa City 31 26 North Platte 30 24 Evansville 32 27 Juneau 36 32 Ogden 27 12 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, December 10, 1997 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

University of Nebraska scientists to build particle accelerator 


LINCOLN. Neb. 
Congress and two U.S. agencies signed a $531-million promise Monday to help build and operate the largest piece of scientific equipment in the world by 2005, and a team of University of Nebraska-Lincoln faculty members and students will take part. 
Under Monday's agreement, the United States will invest in a new parti­cle accelerator called the Large Hedron Collider now under construction near Geneva, Switzerland. 
The $6 billion accelerator will be seven times more powerful than the strongest accelerator now in use and will measure 16 miles in circumfer­ence. It will create collisions between streams of protons at higher energies than achieved before. 
The collider is the "next step in the energy frontier," said Nebraska team leader Greg Snow, a UNL associate professor of high-energy physics. "This is a happy day for us." 
The Nebraska team will receive about $500,000 to create a device that measures the luminosity -the exact number -of proton collisions occurring inside the accelerator, where collisions occur at nearly the speed of light, Snow said. 
The measurement of about 1 billion collisions per second will form the basis for evaluating all other data sci­entists hope to collect from the colli­sions, including the existence of the Higgs boson particle. 
The particle is the last missing piece in the standard model of particle physics and is responsible for the fact that particles have mass. Snow said. In other words, the elusive particle could help scientists understand the basis of material existence, he said. 
Snow and another Nebraska team member, physics assistant professor Dan Claes, helped discover the next-to­last missing piece of the model, the Top Quark, in March 1995. The particle was discovered through experiments conducted at what is now the nation's best particle accelerator, the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory out­side of Chicago. 
To build the new accelerator, the Nebraska team members will join about 1,500 other physicists from around the globe in working on one of two particle detectors in the new accel­erator called the Compact Muon Solenoid. When complete, the detectors will each measure five stories long. Construction costs will be about $400 million. 

• UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT 
Hallway chats may be monitored 
STORRS, Conn. 

Students at the University of Connecticut have discov­
ered that intercoms located in hall ceilings have a listen 
feature that allows any activity that goes on in the halls, 
including conversations, to be monitored. Few residents 
know that the feature exists or that it can be used by R.A.s 
and hall directors. "I don't feel it is appropriate for anyone 
to listen to conversations going on in the halls," said Sweta 
Pandey, an R.A. who discovered the system. "The fact that 
the listen option is there gives people the access to violate 
the privacy of residents." Maureen Isleib, complex coordi­
nator at UC, said she doesn't think R.A.s are listening in 
on conversations but said, "It sounds like a great idea. If 
it results in them being more prepare_d before walking into 
a dangerous situation, then yes, it's a good idea." Kellie 
Sylvester, a UC student, said, "The intercoms are neces­
sary for safety precautions ... This is the only way these 
should be used. R.A.'s should be the primary instrument 
for monitoring activity on the floor." 
• UNIVERSITY Of CtU.!FORNlA, BERKElEY 
Student goes to jail for 'suspicious' notes 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

A UC Berkeley student has been wrongly arrested for 
possession of drugs with the intention to sell by the local 
police department and lost a semester of school due to jail 
time. Carlos Gonzalez was charged with running drugs 
after police mistook his engineering notes for notes depict­
ing weights of drugs for sale. After conviction, Gonzalez 
found himself in jail for nearly two weeks. He had offered 
a former co-worker a ride without knowing his passenger 
was a part-time drug dealer. The passenger was on his 
way to sell methamphetamines to an undercover police 
officer. Police surrounded Gonzalez's car with guns 
drawn. Gonzalez allowed them to search his car, and they 
discovered his "suspicious" notes -part of a project on 
the design of local wastewater treatment plant. Gonzalez's 
lawyer told media sources that the charges would have 
been funny, except that Gonzalez's life had been "ruined.'' 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Sororities sign trial BYOB policy 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Eight of the University of Michigan's 17 sororities signed 
an agreement Monday night to participate in a trial period 
for a new Bring-Your-Own-Beverage alcohol policy. If cam­
pus chapters do not sign the agreement, they can't partic­
ipate in parties with the sororities who have signed, accord­
ing to Katie Heid, president of the UM chapter of Delta Delta 
Del~a. During the trial period, sororities bound by the policy 
will be required to sign a BYOB contract before each party, 
stating specific fraternities or sororities involved and the 
location and time of the party. The trial period will include 
fines for those fraternities or sororities that break the con­
tract. "I think a lot of the reason people are not (signing) 
now is because they don't have a lot of knowledge about [the 
policy]," Heid said. When the trial period ends, officers of 
each sorority involved will evaluate the program. Adviser 
Mary Beth Seiler said the policy is a good idea from both a 
legal and safety standpoint. "People drink less when they 
bring their o~n beverages," she said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN, MADISON 
Freshman found in garbage recovering 
MADISON, Wis. 
The University of Wisconsin freshman found at the bot­
tom of a garbage chute after falling on Halloween has been 
transferred to a hospital closer to his home. Eighteen-year­
old Eric Schwanke was found covered with garbage by a 
university worker on Sunday, Nov. 1. Authorities suspect 
he fell from the ninth floor. Schwanke remained in a coma 
until late November and gradually woke during the last 
week of November. However, he is still unable to talk. In 
addition to lapsing into a coma, Schwanke suffered several 
broken bones. Authorities suspect Schwanke landed on his 
feet because he would not have survived the fall if he had 
landed head first. UW Campus Police and administrators 
are still baffled about the cause of Schwanke's fall. "We 
have absolutely no information about the accident itself," 
said Mary Rouse, dean of students. "We have more ques­
tions than answers." 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 1 0. 

AccuWeatRer ®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
....,.......... ...a...a_ ............... 
COLO WARM STATIONARY 
C> 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vis Assocl8tsd Press 



Wednesday, December 1 0, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC archives open the doors of history 
By MELANIE GARMAN Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
As the time for final papers approaches, anyone who is looking for information on a past event that has taken place on the Saint Mary's College campus, or who is doing research dealing with a previ­ous college leader might try the archive department in the basement of the Cushwa­Leighton library. 
The archives, which house nwmorabilia dating back to the mid-1800s, contain informa­tion on many aspects of the college, including past presi­dents, yearbooks, campus 1wcnts. photos and copies of old handbooks. 
And these arc only a few of the sources of information on the college's history which can br found in the department. 
In tlw early days of the col­IPgP. Pach student was required to keep a diar-y of her daily activities and expenses, which were recorded in large notebooks. Excerpts from past student diaries dating as far back as 184 7 have been found and restored . 
Archivist John Kovach. who has been heading the depart­ment for close to a year and a half, has many responsibilities within the department. Before coming to Saint Mary's·, he spent the majority of his career as director of the Northern Indiana Center for History, which he credits for giving him the tools to becom­ing successful at Saint Mary's. 
"There is a lot of difference between running a museum and operating the archive department. However, I thor­oughly enjoy the students' interest in what we have to offer, and I am very excited to have a hand in the exhibits in the library," said Kovach. "The most interesting project I have worked on at Saint Mary's was the inaugural exhibit." 
In addition to Kovach, three students are employed to work daily in the department. They are currently working on the project of collecting articles from past South Bend commu­nity theater productions that took place on the campus of Saint Mary's. 
"I enjoy going through the old playbills and notes on the plays to see how much South Bend has changed and grown," said sophomore Brooke Brumbaugh. 
The students'. jobs demand them to rewrite by hand a brief description of each play or circus they come across. 
"Writing down all of the plays, which date from 1892­1920, is very exciting to be a part of," added sophomore Bea Bandarenko. 
One of Kovach's major con­cerns is that students do not realize all that the department has to offer. 
"Last year we had about 260 requests for archives, which we use as a gauge for the amount of advertising we need to do," said Kovach. "As of this past May we have had 77 inquiries for information." 
The archive department is open to the public year round and will try to service any request it receives. 
"The most interesting 
HAPPY 21ST B.::JRTt-IDr\}! Ct-IRJSTJf\JE!!!! 
+-lAVE-AN 
OLJ\TSTANDJNCi 
D.AY, 36T.ZS6\!!!! 
LOVe, MOM, DAD, CAT+-IERJN6. & 
3AM6S 
Jt's Cfiristmastime... 
1-n:~ Y~'lt" pi~"-up ~f!)m~ ~~~~ ~ift~ ~t 


©rr~a~'··• 
we·re Your one stoP music shoP featuring vinYl records. concert T­shirts. hemP jewelrY. ~roovY Posters. incense. and a lot more. 
Hours: Mon: 10:00am-1:00 am T ues.-Sat.: 1O:OOam-1 O:OOpm Sun: 11:00 am-8:00pm 
request I had was from a fami­ly member of a graduate who was turning 100 years old, wanting some remembrances from her days at Saint Mary's," said Kovach. "We found some of the ledgers which contained her personal information on her daily activities and expens­es which we offered to the family." 
Kovach has many ideas for promoting the department, including a traveling exhibit on Sister Madeleva and a series of historical postcards and collec­tor plates that could be sold in the bookstore. 
"With the strong alumni base we have here at the college, those would be the primary people interested in the collec­tor sets," said Kovach. 
Even with a 40-hour work week and three student assis­tants, Kovach feels that he still needs more time to work on all that needs to be accomplished to keep the department up to date. 
"I still have boxes to go through filled with Saint Mary's memorabilia, informa­tion on eady commencements, and photos of past events," he said. · 
Happy 19th 
Birthday 
(on the 29th) BILL HENNESSEY 
Lcwe, ~ad. Vad. 
Paf!Ud. 7~ (1tV '96}. &~(1t'D'99} 
II: MUlTICULTURAL BEAT. 


:irJ:Prof.·speaks 
... Ramon Gutierrez, professor of history and ethnic studies at the University of California, San Diego, will speak on "Space, .Time and the Chicano Experience" today at 7:30 p;m. · Gutierrez will focus on the Writing of Chicano history 
over the past.40 Gutierrez years to show how the grand narrative -a li~roic male immigrant strug­gling to assimilate to the United States has been shattered by narratives written from distinct ~ender and sexual subject posi­
tions. ··••· . 
.· .. His visit to Notre Dame is .sponsored by the local. and national chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and the history depart­ment La Alianza wiJI ~lso host a reception for. the speaker today from 2:30 to 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Ubrary Lounge. Gutierrez will be available to 

meetwith students tomorrow morning. Those interested may .~on tact professor Mary Ann 
~ahoney at 631-5977. His book, "When Jesus Came ~}}e Corn Mothers Went Away: 
Marriage, Sexuality and Power in New Mexico, 1500-1846" has won numerous awards, includ· 
ing the Bolton Prize for Best Book on Latin American History, the Sharlin Prize for Best Book in Social Science History and the JQhn HQpe Franklin Prize for th~ Best.Book in American Studies. 
LADIES' AND MEN'S WORLD FAMOUS RAINWEAR, CLOTHING AND FURNISHINGS AT SAVINGS OF 
30 TO 60% 


-~--~--~----~------~-~. -~----~-~-~--~---·------~----~ ____... ~---~-~---~ ~---­
. 
page 4 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 10, 1997 

Rit~ ofR~c~ption of th~ 


x~w Bishop crt th~ Bctsificct of th~ Sctcr~() 3-feetrt 
Aff crre invite() to wefcome the newf~ or<lcrine<l cruxificrr~ 6ishop of the Diocese of.Fort Wcr~ne-South Ben<l. 

~t~ma 


DWlieC:R. J~, C.S.C. 
Bcrsificcr of the Scrcre<l · Mecrrt 5:00p.m.-5:15p.m. IT'uesi'et~, Decem6er 16, 1997 
Xotre Dame (iturgicaf Choir an~ tfie Xotre Dame .Fo(k Cfioir wi((participate. 
J'fease Come! 

Wednesday, December 10, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Palestinians remember 
uprising against Israel 

.JEBALIYA REFUGEE CAMP, Gaza Strip 
More than 1,000 Palestinians quietly marked the lOth anniversary Tuesday of their uprising against Israel in the refugee camp where it began. The celebration, 
. truncated by rain, matched the generally muted atmosphere among Palestinians at a time when peace talks with Israel are bogged down and many are questioning whether the sacrifices of the six-year upris­ing were worthwhile. The "intefadeh" start­ed with Palestinian stone throwing riots in the .Jebaliya refugee camp and quickly grew into a full-blown struggle against Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza, which it captured in the 1967 Mideast war. The 1,306 Palestinians killed by Israelis during the six-year uprising were remem­bered with a moment of silence. An addi­tional 192 Israelis were killed by Palestinians and 822 Palestinians, accused of collaboration, were killed in intra-Arab violence. The camp was adorned with pic­tures of Yasser Arafat who was exile dur­ing the uprising, and now leads the Palestinian Authority established in 1994, and slain PLO leaders. Tayed Abdel Rahim, the Palestinian Authority's secretary gener­al. said that while the Palestinians have chosen peace as a strategy for gaining inde­pendence, all options remain open. 
Gore aims for HIV Medicaid 
coverage 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Vice President AI Gore said Tuesday he is extremely disappointed that the Department of Health and Human Services has been unable to extend Medicaid coverage to peo­ple with IIIV to provide them with AIDS­fighting drugs before they become ill. Gore, who called for the initiative last spring, said efforts will continue to help people with HIV get the new generation of drugs. The drugs have proved highly effective in keeping patients healthier but cost about $12,000 per person per year. "This administration understands the urgency of finding innova­tive ways to ensure that all people with HIV benefit from the promise of new and effec­tive treatments," Gore said in a statement. He directed officials to keep looking for new strategies. Last April, Gore promised AIDS activists that the government would serious­ly consider extending Medicaid to people with IllY. But with no action to date, President Clinton's AIDS advisers issued a report over the weekend sharply critical of the administration's second-term AIDS activity. Officials had hoped the plan would pay for itself by keeping people healthy and saving money. 
Nasdaq:-61.18 1,620.55 -30.99 
NYSE: 510.86 -2.58 
S&P 500: 975.78 
-6.59
8111.09 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

CO\ii'-\:S)"  liCK! B  ':i,CI!.\NCit  S GAIN  PRICE  
~fiCROWAVE SYSTEM  MWAR  .l2.66  +1.437  5.813  
TECII ELECTRO  TELEU  31.37  ...z.ooo  8.375  
MVSII!'JC-WIS  MVSIW  29.41  -t-0.625  2.750  
F.-NET WT-2002  ETF.LW  26.66  +O.K\3  3.660  
U~IROYAI. TEC/1  UTCIW  2-L 14  +0.H75  -1.500  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

ASCOR CO\iM ASC 45.69 N/A 5.125 RF.SURliF.r\t:E PROP HPIA 42.86 -1.500 2.000 SYSTEM SOFTWARE SSAX 36.47 ·5.560 '>.680 MEllO MORTliACiE MMGC :U.96 ·2.250 U70 KINCi 1'0\\'ER KPG 33.33 ·1.750 :<.SOD 

GOP demands Reno explain decision 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON, DC 
Attorney General Janet Reno testily confronted Republican critics of her fund -raising investigation Tuesday while the FBI direc­tor told lawmakers his rec­ommendation for an inde­pendent prosecutor didn't mean he believed a specific person had committed a crime. 
FBI director Louis Frech also questioned whether the White House has turned over all evidence. ''I'm not confi­dent we have all the docu­ments yet," he declared. 
In a daylong congressional hearing designed to air Republican anger over the failure to name an indepen­dent prosecutor, Reno stood her ground. 
"This has all the appear­ances of an attorney general protecting the presidcnt," charged Rep. Dan Burton, R­Ind., chairman of the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee. 
Reno bristled at the sug­gestion she was hiding behind legal technicalities: ''I'm not hiding ... I'm trying to do my duty." 
"I will make the decisions based on the evidence and the law and not on newspa­per headlines, newspaper editorials, polls or threats," she said. 
Frech, who watched for hours as Reno was grilled, addressed his own widely publicized disagreement with Reno. Frech had advo­cated naming an indcpcn-dent counsel, but he told lawmakers that did "not imply that I believe any par­ticular person has commit­ted a crime." 

Frech refused to say the basis for his decision. 
Reacting to his comment about the possibility of addi­tional documents, White House special counsel Lanny Davis said he,would not be surprised if more turned up. 
"It's impossible to guaran­tee in a complex this large with so many investigatory bodies making so many demands" that relevant has been found, Davis said at the White House. 
Frech denied his disagree­ment had created any rift with Reno, who rejected his advice last week. He did not deny that a concern that she may have a conflict of inter­est in investigating her boss, President Clinton, was among his reasons. 
"That I made a recommen­dation different from the ultimate outcome in this instance docs not mean there is a professional rift between us," he added. 
Though Republicans re­fused to allow Reno and Frech to testify together, the two law enforcement officers flashed solidarity by jointly refusing to give the House panel a copy of Frech's memo outlining his disagree­ments with her. 
Both said they did not want to compromise the investigation by disclosing crucial evidence or inves­tigative strategies. 
Burton, whose own cam­paign finances are under investigation by a Justice Department task force, said he would have no objection if Reno referred the allega­tions against him to an inde­pendent counsel. "I have nothing to fear from an inde­pendent counsel," Burton said. 


bacteria 
tors ~it.E)d by the CD people eating out, · · 
i.il'f\fll'.fl.ni~P. about safe UQ,.LU..>.>Uc 
an increased chance 
the growing number 
d people with 
une systems; 
· Doctors· are also ting . at diagnosing and ing food illnesses. 
One disturbing trend is that micr?M~.are developing resi ~ntil:ljQ~~~s used to treat il peo
One reason: Antibiotics are tronn<>nt 
ly givento livestock to n,..~,..,,t ease, . serving as an unintended ulaticm for the bacteria that live the animals. . 
ht l:kitain, a strain of salmone called. DTl04 has proven resistant many antibiotics, including te cline, and has triggered a jump human illnesses from the strain t'tom 259in 1990 to 3,837 1995 said E.M; Foster ofthe Food InstitUte in Madison, Wis. 

------~-~--~---~--~~-----~~~--------~--------------­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December I 0, 1997 
AN OPEN LETTER To THE UNIVERSITY oF NoTRE DAME CoMMUNITY FROM THE DR. TIN LuTHER KING CELEBRATION PLANNING CoMMITTEE 


W
e, the Committee responsible for the planning of the celebration surrounding the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday, feel compelled to take this opportunity to publicly express our concerns with regard to this important and significant event. This open letter and the evenl<> which we are charged to plan are intended to awaken in our community the message of Dr. King and to encourage earnest and serious reflection on who we are as individuals and as a community in light of that message. 
As a result of some of the unfortunate events which have taken place on this campus with regard to race relations and cultural sensitivity, we are frustrated. We are discouraged by the darkness that so often pervades the life of this community, especially for those among us who are of color. But we are not without hope. Our hope is rooted in the very hope of Dr. King, which was rooted in the light that dispels all darkness, that ofJesus Christ. 
Even with that hope, however, we are not confident that the typical program of celebration is what this campus needs. As a committee, we do not feel as though our charge is to celebrate the life of a dead man. It is to engage and challenge a community to reflect upon the life of a man whose spirit is alive, and whose ideals will never die. We are not content to celebrate our accomplishments as a community when so much is left to be achieved; we are not content to rest on our laurels when our laurels are, at times, no more than a lifeless branch. 
Nor will we surrender. For those of you who share our frustration, join with us in our hope. For those.of you, regardless of skin color, who have no idea what we're talking about, join with us to learn more. For those of you committed to socio-economic justice, join with us in our work. For those of you who want to take up the challenge of justice and equality, of liberation and freedom, of solidarity and love, join with us. This is too important a moment for this community not to. 
We as a committee, and please God, as a community, feel that it is time to step back, to consider who we are, and to pray. It is only with serious soul searching and with earnest desire that any of our efforts to move our community and our world will succeed. We believe that 1998 must be the year for prayer. It is the year during which each of us, in our own way, must take up the charge to live the challenge of Dr. King and of the Gospel. In the words of Dr. King, "We are tied together in the single garment of destiny, caught in an inescapable network of mutuality. And whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly... this is the way God's universe is made; this is the way it is structured." (The last Sunday morning sermon of Dr. King delivered on Passion Sunday at the National Cathedral~m~·lliiiiillii('l\i
Washington, D.C. on March 31, 1968.) Therefore, we invite all to join with us in prayer on January in Commemoration of the Birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
p.m. in the Chapel of the Holy Cross located between Keenan and $~~~~l~~·~w~~)i.;l:[\iji!!!!ji:jjj!!!jlil!i;:i:;::j!i!((i.!i\(:;\i:(jij\!ii,lijj\!;i!II!I!III\J\!j\II!IIJI\j)\!l!ll!!l\\l\\li\\lllllliiiiiJ\j\lji!J!!J
It will not be the beginning nor the end of our celebrati9p; ~jl~ltlijUJ¢·ihcfhtii!f~ qfj,tt~vbil1lf __ 
have already honored and celebrated the memory of Dr. King by ~iiiiiliii~li 
nity. It is our hope that in 1998 many more will be encouraged for peace and freedom. As a committee, it is not our task alone. in our hope, and in our work, that we might together see the 
Sincerely, The Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration Committee 
Leticia Bajuyo Cheryl Igiri Jay Brandenberger ChandraJohnson, Chair Rodney Cohen Fr. Jim Lies, C.S.C. Sr. Teresita Creighton, O.P. Iris Outlaw Tasnim Fisher Jeffrey Ward Christine Haley Priscilla Wong 
-~ -----~----·~~----------,

-------~-......---~------~--~--------~-~ ~-­
Wednesday, December 10, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 



'Ceausescu's Kids! on display 
support their children aban­ors of open spaces with win­

Moreau exhibits 
don them." dows and doors that look out Bourgoignie and Mitchell on land, water and sky.

to stay through said the children "sought "Architecture of functional refuge in the streets." Their clarity is used in [the] work as photographs documented the a vehicle for self-education

Christmas break 
life of children in 1995 when and insight. The spaces repre­By SHANA'E TATE in Bucharest, Romania with sented in [my] paintings are News Writer funding from the Freedom intended as metaphors for the 
Forum Grant and the emotional states of life's psy­

Last week marked the open­chological and spiritual jour­ing of two new art exhibits in ney," Perrault said. the Moreau Galleries at Saint 'BOTH OF THESE "Both of these exhibits allow Mary's. The two exhibits are us to contemplate who we are
EXHIBITS ALLOW US 

"Ceausescu's Kids" by Lelen and where we are," comment­
TO CONTEMPLATE WHO WE

Bourgoignie and Patty Mitchell ed Bowles. "This is a good and "Decisive Light" painting time of year for us to have
ARE AND WHERE WE ARE.' by Steve Perrault. these exhibits as we go into Displayed in Hammes the holidays." Gallery, Bourgoignie's and JOHNSON BOWLES, DIRECTOR Bourgoignie is an assistant Mitchell's black and white professor at Miami University.
OF MoREAU ART GAUERIES 

photographs of Romanian She is a former staff photogra­orphans depict the world of pher for publications in the the children once hidden away United States and Europe in orphanages by Romanian University of Miami, Fla. including The Ann Arbor dictator Nicholae Ceausescu. "In Bucharest alone, there News, the Fort Lauderdale 
The photographers are now at least 2,000 home­News and Sun Sentinel, explained, "Today, reputable less children and the number Prognosis (Prague) and Aide authorities report that approx­increases daily," they claimed. Autri (Brussels). Her work imately two percent of "All of these photographs has appeared in more than 20 Romanian citizens under the pull at one's heart strings," exhibitions in 1996 alone. age of 18, or nearly 100,000 said Johnson Bowles, director In addition, she has received children, still live in state of the Moreau Art Galleries. awards from the National institutions. As economic con­Featured in the Little Press Photographers ditions continue to deterio­Theatre Gallery, Steve Association and Miami rate, many families unable to Perrault paints austere interi-University. Bourgoignie 
received her two master's degrees from Ohio University and her bachelor's degree in art from the Miami University. 
Mitchell is the director for Art/Works! in Athens, Ohio. She has served on the faculty for a variety of Ohio University programs including the Ohio University in Prague and the Ohio University School of Arts. Her work has been exhibited in Ohio, New York, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Prague and London. Mitchell received her bachelor's and master's degrees in fine arts from Ohio University. 
Perrault has earned gradu­ate degrees in art education, psychology and theology. His experience includes work as a psycho-therapist with individ­uals, couples, families and the incarcerated in New York. Most recently, his work has been displayed at DePaul University, Aurora University, Chicago Botanical Garden and the Gwenda Jay Gallery in Chicago. 
The exhibits will be dis­played in the Moreau Galleries until Jan. 16. 
AN 


ADVENT 
SERVICE OF 

HoLY CoMMUNION 
according to THE BOOK OF COMMON PRAYER 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1997 
ALUMNI HALL CHAPEL 
5:15P.M. 

BCAF is looking for models to be in the 1998 Black Cultural Arts Festival Fashion Show March 28_ 
WORKSHOP DATES 

January 14, 1998 @ Pasquerilla Hall West January 18, 1998 @ Pasquerilla Hall West January 21, 1998 @ Pasquerilla Hall West January 25, 1998 @ Pasquerilla Hall West 8-10PM 
TRYOUT DATE 

January 26, 1998 @ Pasquerilla Hall West 
*Attendance is required. Ifyou have any ques­
tions please contact Meloney Moore @ #4-2905 
Coming to the Chicago 

Area for the Holidays? 
Earn $ and gain exposure to the Corporate World. 
-Word Processing 
Operators -Receptionists -General Office Clerks 


0 
Call City Staffing 
-

2 N. LaSalle St. #630 
(312) 346-3400 

For Immediate Service Ca II 
Don at Rafferty's Body Shop 


683-1510 

--~---·--~~----------~---·~-~-----------._..-~~-------·---_......-..........~~----·~~­page 8 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
"I don't know if that's for his and vice president Erek "He wouldn't have encoun­anyone in the administration Nass' absence at the first half tered [the policies for comput­
Griffin Senate 
to say," Cassidy said. "During of the student government's er purchases] in any other stu­
continued from page 1 
Pugh, who visited Griffin during the weekend of the Notre Dame-Boston College football game on Oct. 25, said she "had nothing but good things to say" about Griffin. 
"He was easy to work with. responsible, and he's always returned our calls," Pugh said. 
During Pugh's stay in South Bend, she and Boston College student body president Dean Bell stayed with Griffin in his off-campus apartment. She said she, Bell and Griffin were among a group of people who went out for drinks while she was there, and that Griffin was "responsible" with his drinking. 
"We've had nothing but a positive experience when deal­ing with Notre Dame student government," Pugh said. 
Notre Dame officials have declined to comment on Griffin's effectiveness in repre­senting the student body to the University administration. Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs, said yes­terday that she has had a long-standing policy of not evaluating the student body president publicly while that president was in office. 
"I have never thought it appropriate for me to com­ment in any year about the students' elected leaders dur­ing the middle of their term," O'Hara said. 
Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities and advisor to student government, also declined to give a final verdict on Griffin's ability to represent the students. 
the election process [for stu­three-day retreat in August. dent body president]. the Cassidy said Griffin and Nass administration is very hands­were excused from the morn­off. It's up to the students to ing of the second day because say, 'Here's who we want in they had to attend a transfer office.'" student orien­
Cassidy did, tation. Missing however, offer 'WE'VE HAD NOTHING the first day his analysis of was not
BUT POSITIVE EXPE-
specific excused, how­aspects of RIENCES WHEN DEALING ever, Cassidy Griffin's term. WITH NOTRE DAME STU-
said. 
Cassidy said "I had a dis­that Griffin has DENT GOVERNMENT.' cussion with had several Matt and Erek "p,retty good that I was dis­ideas" 
KRISTIN PUGH a p p 0 i n t e d " including the BOSTON COLLEGE STUDENT that they creation of the BODY VICE PRESIDENT missed the 
"Campus Hook-Up," student govern­ment's weekly publication that begin this semester, and the student government leader­ship conference -but that he sometimes "hits a snag when it comes to implementation." 
"It's tough to say if he knows how much time and money it takes to pull something off," Cassidy said. "But I don't know if that's a plus or minus. He certainly works hard and puts in a lot of hours." 
Cassidy referred specifically to Griffin's failed efforts to receive permission to sponsor the leadership conference. 
"The denial [of the request for permission] was not on the concept," Cassidy said. "Actually, the response from the administration has been positive about the concept, but the concern was in the time­line. It was going to take more than a few months for the con­ference to take off." 
One item in Lingenfelser's petition criticized Griffin for 

first day, Cassidy said. 
In a letter to the editor in yesterday's Observer, Lingenfelser said Griffin's alleged "failure to properly manage our student funds is our greatest concern about his presidency." 
But Cassidy said Monday that Griffin's mistakes in handling funds on two occasions cited by Lingenfelser were simply a result of inexperience. 
When Griff1n sought to pur­chase a new computer for stu­dent government during the summer by signing his own name in place of the student treasurer's, he "just didn't know the correct process," Cassidy said. 
"I don't think he was trying to pull something over. I think he was just naive," said Cassidy, who noted that Griffin, in his position last year as junior class president, had the authority to sign for such purchases as food and drink orders. 
dent government position he held previously." 
Cassidy also said Griffin's placement of $5,000 in Student Activities fees from Saint Mary's in the incorrect account was an innocent mis­take. 
"Matt just didn't realize and wasn't aware what [thn check] was for," Cassidy said. "1 take him at his word on that." 
The third and final charge of financial mismanagement against Griffin -misrepre­senting to the Financial Management Board the need for $15,000 to publish the "Campus Hook-Up" -has been termed "a big lie" by stu­dent body treasurer Nerea Arrien. 
"!Griffin] actually asked for less money at the allocation meeting," Arrien said last week. "We decided to give him more money so he could expand the publication from four to eight pages.'' 
continued from page 1 
explained that the Student Senate would not actually con­duct the election. That duty would be delegated to the Judicial Council. 
"This petition is definitely not going to be submitted until after Christmas," said Patrick Coyle, senator from Dillon Hall. 
"If we don't think that it is right, we have the time and the means to convince people of that. You can go back and tell your constituencies about it." 
Keough Hall senator A.J. Boyd noted that last year's reform committee did not change the process for recall or referendum in the constitution in any way. 
"We didn't touch them because we all knew that no one would use them," he said. 
"And it is important to note that the petition only calls for a recall. No one is being impeached or has called for impeachment here." 

lrtJJJJY :JirfMay!! ,love, Mom and Robert 





LET'g PLAY JEOPARDY! 
THE CATEGORIES ARE... Professional Services Firms, Careers, Internships, Locations and 18th Century Ireland. 


INTERNSHIPS FOR $1oo·:'., THE ANSWER IS ... This evening of trivia is a fun way to find out about summer 
intern~~ip opportunities. at 
c;i"~l• & ~l!rand.:;:~;j;, Whatjis .... CSL's JEOPARDY N161tt? 
:Jv&:=. ,;.=..:,=:.=:·=='=J\,· 
,~~1tF~~·, =:::=::.\::,,:, 
LOCATIONS FOR $100. THE ANSWER IS ... By meeting representatives 
from all across the nation at ... Jeopardy night,. ~~is important :If~~.::::• matter can be addressed. 
What is choosing th~ best of~ice for·an internship? 
CAREERS FOR $100. THE ANSWER IS... This website gives potential candidates access to an initial application for internships and p~[manent employment. 
:;j);y: 
What is www.c/springboard.com? 

Coopers & Lybrand invites you to play C&L JEOPARDY! 
December 11, 1997 6 · 8 p.m. 
Joyce Center, Monogram Room 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Coopers&Lybrand 
a professional services firm 
Wednesday, December 1 0, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Clinton addresses Washington church, urges har01ony 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASJIINGTON 

President Clinton told District of Columbia residents Sunday he's dedicated to mak­ing the nation's beleaguered capital "a shining city on the hill for all America." 
"I don't believe our national government has always been the best neighbor to the city of Washington," Clinton admit­ted, but he added: "We are committed to becoming a bet­ter neighbor." 
Mayor Marion Barry said he appreciated Clinton's com­ments. 
"I think it was good he came to point out that the present government has not been good neighbors," Barry said during a later, unrelated White House reception. "I hope that (Senate Majority Leader) Trent Lott and (House Speaker) Newt Gingrich hear that." 
Crumbling conditions in the District were the focus of Clinton's visit to Metropolitan Baptist Church, in the heart of the District's black communi­ty. But the subtext clearly was to show Clinton himself cross­
;Congratulations on Straight A's 
Derrick Jay Mayoleth One Step Closer to the Do~· 
ing the invisible barriers that make religious worship one of America's most segregated practices. 
The visit came as Clinton's yearlong campaign for racial reconciliation shifted into a higher gear after last week's town hall meeting in Akron, Ohio. That gathering was fol­lowed by,......,,......-...,..,=,.,.----,...,several others con­

drawn crit­
icsm for~~_____..,.__ 
having a  black-only audi­ 
ence.  
Black  Transportation  

Secretary Rodney Slater presided over the closed, invi­tation-only event last week at a Dallas museum, which orga­nized by Dallas Municipal Court Judge Vonceil Hill, a friend of Slater's. 
Sylvia Mathews, deputy chief of staff overseeing the race effort, said the Dallas meeting was an "isolated incident" that would not be repeated. Slater's spokesman Bill Schulz said the reaction was an encouraging sign that people of all races are eager to talk. 
"Clearly this was a missed opportunity," Schulz said. 
Hill told the Dallas Morning News that having an all-black audience did not hurt the dis­cussion. "I don't believe the president has indicated that 
'ONE OF THE GIFTS I HOPE I AND OUR
vened by resulted from Clinton ADMINISTRATION CAN LEAVE FOR TEH the events in aides Akron.
21ST CENTURY IS A NATIONAL CAPITOL THAT IS 
one of Metropolitan's which has A SHINING CITY ON A HILL FOR ALL AMERICA.' pastor, the Rev. 
Dr. H. Beecher Hicks Jr., took it PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON there, saying 

every dialogue must start in the same way," she said. But Abigail Thernstrom, a 
. conservative author who took part in the Akron dialogue, told "Fox News Sunday" that the exclusion of whites was unfair. She urged Clinton to add divergent views to his advisory board on race. "I want to hear the White House say it is racist," Thernstrom said. "You can make more of an effort so we 
blacks must not use the legacy of slavery as an excuse for perpetuating wretched conditions in Washington . 
"There comes a moment in my life when I must declare liberation from my past," Hicks said. "We will not lay all of our problems at the feet of racism. Nor ·will we wink at mismanagement and incompe­tence that we have heaped upon ourselves." 
Clinton did not promise new 

CORRECTION -> 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
Our Lady of Guadalupe Vigil Mass Thursday, December 11 
10:30 p.m. @ Our Lady ofGuadalupe Chapel 
at Keough Hall (Not Friday) 
Presiding: Father Patrick Neary, CSC Music: Coro Primavera 
Elections open to all second semester sophomores & above in good academic & social standing 
You MUST ATTEND ONE OF THE FOLLOWING INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS: TUESDAY, JANUARY 13 OR WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14 AT 7:00 IN HAGGAR PARLOR 
Questions before break? Call Janet Horvath Elections Commissioner at 284-4305 
don't have a monologue here." Although Sunday's event also played to a largely black audience, aides hoped images of Clinton reading letters from black children, singing along with soulful hymns and enter­ing the debate over the District's future would nudge the national conversation fur­ther beyond the feel-good plati­tudes that 
policies or tax relief for the District. He reiterated his sup­port for local home rule and pledged to pay closer attention to the problems of those who live in the White House's shad­ow. 
"One of the gifts I hope I and our administration can leave for the 21st century is a national capital that is a shin­ing city on the hill for all America," he said. 
Currently, District govern­ment is overseen by a congres­sionally appointed control board, and Congress has final say over the District's budget. Many citizens believe the con­trols exist because Washington's population is mostly black, and the city's voters have placed mostly blacks among their govern­mental leaders. 
"Washington has gotten a lot of lectures from people in national politics about being more responsible," Clinton said. "But in the essence of our Constitution is the idea that responsibility requires freedom. I want Washington, D.C., to be able to run its own affairs." 
As Clinton spoke, Barry, and congressional delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton nod­ded in agreement, as did poet Maya Angelou. The president lf)ft the church with Norton. 
Clinton said he chose to 
attend Metropolitan, with a 
black membership, rather 
than his usual place of wor­
ship, the racially diverse 
Foundry United Methodist, to 
encourage more Americans to 
worship at least once with 
people of different races, 
beliefs, or faiths. The two 
churches are .only 10 blocks 
apart. 
"It is not enough to say we 
are all equal in the eyes of 
God," Clinton said. "We are 
all also connected in the eyes 
of God." 

SPONSORED BY MELVIN DANSBY 
(CAPT. OF THE N.D. FOOTBALL TEAM) TO SUPPORT 
TOYS FOR TOTS 
WHERE: JAZZMAN'S NIGHTCLUB 525 N. HILL STREET, SOUTH BEND 
WHEN: WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER lOTH DOORS OPEN AT 10 P.M. 
COVER: $3.00 LADIES NO COVER 
(IF YOU BRING A NEW OR USED TOY FOR THE CHILDREN OF SOUTH BEND) 
18 TO ENTER; 21 TO DRINK 

-----~--~----~---·--~ -.-----..-------~------:------~·------~ 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
•ISRAEL 
Deal ends national strike 
By DAN FA LINZER 
Associated Press Wrirer 
TELAVlV 
Hard-pressed union and 

government negotiators 
struck a dealSunday to end a 
nationwide public-employee 
strike that had shut down 
much of Israel for five days. 
The walkout by more than 

600,000 workers had strand· 
ed travelers at the national 
airport and closed banks, post 
offices, kindergartens and the 
Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. 
Histadrut union leader 

Amir Peretz annomiced 
Sunday that a meeting with 
Finance Minister Yaakov 
Neeman produced a compro· 
mise over pensions, sending 
strikers back to work late 
Sunday. 
The massive protest had 

been prompted in part by a 
Finance Ministry proposal to 
roll back a pension agree­
ment signed by the previous 
Labor government. 
Army Radio said talks on ways to honor the agreement would begin immediately. The government has already agreed to cancel plans to retroactively tighten the con­ditions of retirement savings plans, the radio said. 
"I hope the citizens ofisrael have understood the need for this strike despite the hard­ship it brought about," Peretz said. 
Neeman maintained.that 

"most of the things agreed 
upon now could have been 
worked out days ago without 
the need for ·such a crippling 
strike." 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he was pleased that the work stop-· page was over, Israel TV reported. 
Earlier Sunday, hundreds of striking workers blocked major intersections. About a third of the country's bus dri­vers joined in, while oil refineries said they would stop supplying crude oil to the electric company. 
Israel Radio said more than 60,000 people in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv were without phone service because repair workers were striking. 
Workers burned tires and demanded Neeman's resigna­tion outside the Jerusalem Labor Court, which had been asked to decide whether strikers were in contempt of court for ignoring a back-to­work order issued last week. 
In Haifa. dozens of taxi and bus drivers drove sloY\''ly down main streets, purposely snarling traffic. Gasoline sta­tions said they would soon start running out of fuel. In Tel Aviv, garbage piled up on the streets. 
Many A TMs throughout the country ran out of funds, leaving Israelis short ofcash. 
Shuki Abramovich, head of the economics division at the Manufacturers Association of Israel, estimated total dam­age to the economy at $57 million. 
Ben-Gurion International Airport was a scene ofmay­hem Sunday as thousands of tourists who had been stranded by the strike fought for seats on flights out of the country. 
• SOUTH AFRICA 
Winnie Mandela denies atrocities 
By TOM COHEN we were aware of the factors Associated Press Writer that led to that, for that. I am deeply sorry." JOHANNESBURG Earlier, Commissioner Yasmin 
A defiant Winnie Madikizela­Sooka told Madikizela-Mandela. Mandela. her volatile temper "If your evidence is to be !laring at times during her long­believed today, then everyone awaited testimony, denied else who testified here is lying." Sunday she ordered killings or Citing the names of several of committed atrocities and dis­her strongest accusers. missed allegations against her as Madikizela-Mandela replied, lunacy and lies. "Yes, it is true that most of the 
Composed and unrepentant witnesses who testified here before the Truth and were lying." Reconciliation Commission, the The commission is investigat­ex-wife of President Nelson ing 18 human rights abuses ­Mandela denied all allegations ineluding murder and torture ­against her and insisted some of allegedly committed by her accusers made them up. Madikizela-Mandela and her 
But at the end of almost 10 bodyguards. known as the hours of testimony, Madikizela­Mandela United Football Club. Mandela offered an apology She described as "ludicrous, after an emotional appeal by and the worst lunacy," the commission chairman Desmond charge that she ordered the Tutu. death of 14-year-old Stompie 
"I am saying it is true, things Seipei in late 1988 or early went horribly wrong. I fully 1989. And she said the allega­agree with that." Madikizela­tion she ordered her former Mandela said. "And for that part chief bodyguard Jerry of those painful years, when Hichardson to kill others was things went horribly wrong, and "ridiculous." 
Keller sets goals for OIT improvement 
By MICHELLE KRUPA more personal assistance from 
Associate News Editor the OIT Help Desk, quicker 
networking, fewer unan­
This year, the Office of nounced service disruptions in 
Information Technologies has the Debartolo cluster and 
implemented several new pro· shared printing services in 
grams, and in the aftermath, dorms to free up cluster com­
student government comput­puters. 
ing representative Tim Keller Larry Rapagnani, assistant 
has made it his duty to allevi­provost of the OIT, has been 
ate students' l'eelings of being working with Keller and stu­
lost in the technological-shuf­dent government to accommo­
fle. date these needs. Rapagnani 
Through student senators' noted that the service office 
communication with their con­has scheduled student comput­
stituents, Keller has received er training programs to be 
reactions about the prograll1S held in various residence halls 
with which students have dealt to aid the OIT in determining 
and is working closely with the the students' need for techno­
OIT to fix any problems. logical education. 
"Computing services went to The OIT has already planned 
the Residence Life Committee to upgrade all duster RAM ·[of StudentSenate) and asked from 32 M to 64 M to decrease 
for feedback, and the senators network delays. 
came back with issues that Keller is also working with 
their people in their dorms the idea of an on-line "rider 
were concerned with. We took board" to help students find 
those to the OIT, and they've rides during academic breaks, 
been very cooperative,'' Keller an (ln-line teacher/course eval­
said. uation system and an electron­
He sees four basic needs that ic "market place" for students 
his office and the OIT must to buy. sell and trade used 
correct, including a need for books and other items. 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
E<litor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergas< 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
AssiS~anr Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ........................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager... . ................... Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor.. . ........... Kelly Broob Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Ediwr... .......... Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... . .... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Sports Ediror, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associare News Ediror. Commentaries. lerters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­!>ari!r those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe None Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 63 I -4542 Business Office 631-53I3 Managing Ediror 631-454 I Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 63 I-8839 Sport~ 6.ll-4543 Oflice Manager 63I-747I Accenr/Sainr Marv's 63 I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 63 I -5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 
Griffin should stay 
While the administration of student body president Matt Griffin has l;leen 
less than perfect, enough concerns about the petition of recall suggest that 
Griffin should not be removed from office. 
To be,gin, some_of the accusations made by JeNmY Lingenfelser are sus­
pect. First, two mdependent observers, Student Activities. director Joe 
Cassidy and student body treasurer NereaArrien; have saidthat Gritlin djd 
not intentionally mismanage funds. Secondly, J..jl)genfel.Ser ch1=tstises Griffin 
fo~ not rubber-stamping a resolution passfd bY the Student Senate; if 
Griffin as a separate entity has to agree with what the senate decides--:-an 
obvious overlap between the executive and legislative branches ofstudent 
government -that's a problem with how the constitution is written. not. 
with Griffrn. Third. Lingenfelser's claim that the Student Union's na~e is 
damaged because Griffm's alleged personal exploits are reported in the 
Gipper is silly at best 
The rem~ining allegations consist of actions unbecoming to his position 
and of negligent ~rformance. The student body constitution states that the 
Student Senate and its ethics committee should handle the allegations, and 
the ethics committee has already investigated the charges in the petition, 
ruled tha~ some of Griffin's actions were "inappropriate," and verbally 
w~rned ~1m. That vya.'> two months ago, co . . . chairmal:lAJ. Boyd has 
sru~. noting th~t·Gri!'fin has done nothing sine . nto merit investiga.tiott, ,; 
Lin~en~else~ s petition ro: recall essentially is a guest .to ha~e tl1~ degtee 
of Gnffin s gmlt be detennmed by a vote of 7;800. Such a scenario, h()Wev• 
er seemingly de~ocratic, is also extremely dangerous;indeed, how iminy 
students have signed the petition for recall simply bec<:~,use it would be 
"cool" to see a president ousted? · 
Opening debate to a campus-wide vote is tantamount to holding a 
national referendum on the O.J. Simpson case. There's a reason that our 
leg~l ~ystem. k~eps the number ofjurors at a trial out of the tll()u~ands; the· 
logistics of sifting through all the evidence to arrive at an informed conclu­
sion would be impossible. Similarly, the StudentSenate and its ethics com• 
mittee should handle this debate, not the eutire campus, .. 
And as we've seen, the ethics committee has already made its ruling and. 
determined the punishment for Griffin.. . . ... •tt 
The allegations against. Grit:finJ)(liJ•d itnpltl 
Griffin representing the student body ... . . . .. .. . ... · 

goveTIDents h~~;ve said yes. Leaders•atBoston GoUege and DUke llavesllid 
they have nothmg but good things to say" aboutGrifijn~sabllities .. · 
Notre Dame's administration, however, has boon less clear. Both Patricia 
O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs, and Cassidy have declined to 
criticize or praise Griffin. But neither has said the student body is suffering 
because of Griffin's representation, Until the administration does, remov­
ing Griffm on that basis is unjust. . · 
Lastly, a recall vote four weeks before the nexfpresidential election will 
place an incredibl~ strain. on the outgoing adlllipi$tration to acCQmplishits 
goals. The result 1s that student government ~the less able to serve the 

students, the verypeople Ungenfelser seeks tO 
However noble Lingenfelser's crusade 

Griffin's termis not the place to fight th 
tions doesn't· reach the ·level Liiigi:llifelse 
already ruled on theissues; a.nd.th¢~eg 
age Griffin's ability t(l represent the stude 
trators and with students at otherschools. G · 
• DOONESBURY 
HOIQ SIU#Tl MYMVOMliG 116£''ol/G­
YQ/1$' /?1!!;4J,.­

AW(YANI? "f'Q'rfR:JN MM~' tYSC&NAU. AN/JIMA 8/GFIW 
MYMOVI/!5~ OFYCXJRA~­~5Cai&IN 
"/JEeR 8LA5Tlfi(S"/ "­

On Dec. 7, Voices of Faith, the Notre Dame gospel choir, performed "The Storm is Passing Over Now" concert to a sparse audience at Washington Hall. This beautiful celebration of God through music and dance was not deni­grated by the glare of vacant seats; however, the intense lack of support is embarrassing. 
The under-attendance of this concert war­rants numerous criticisms, including inade­quate provision for the arts at Notre Dame (Voices of Faith raises all its own funding) as well as an absence of faculty and administra­tive support for student activities. However, the most glaring offense is the lack of majority support for a minority event. The meager audi­ence was predominantly black, no doubt a high percentage of a minority population at au~ racially homogeneous University. Simple ratios show the empty seats as white. This lack of support clashes with the lip service the Notre Dame community pays to multicultural­ism; we complain about this sea of whiteness, 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
page 11 
criticizing our homogeneity. However, we grossly neglect the few minorities at Notre Dame, disregarding their contributions. 
"Praising God" may be the greatest irony and sadness of this issue. As a religious institution we are united by faith, following God's call to responsibility, morality, and awareness through higher education. What could have been an example of spiritual unity became an absence, not of obligation, but of desire. Faculty, administrators, and foremost, stu­dents, missed a display of spiritual charisma unique to the black community, a wonderful energy from which white Catholic celebration could learn a great 'deal. This letter is both a criticism and an expression of loss: disgust for our hypocrisy towards diversity and sadness as a spiritual invitation from our black communi­ty was so completely ignored. 
Megan Greene 
Senior, Lyons Hall 
December 8, 1997 

Judge Not, Lest Ye Be Judged 
Why d?es The Observer continue to grant so much o;1ts _fr?nt page ~pace to the Student Senate. This IS a questiOn that has baffied me over.the past four years. The Student Senate is ~othmg Illore !han ax~other campus organiza­twn representmg an msular group of students. The results of its weekly meetings should not be h~ld in any higher esteem than the weekly meetmgs of any other group of students. In ~ctuality, the Student Senate has had no rrnpact on the lives of students on this campus over the four years that I have attended Notre Dame. 
Naturally, the recent action by the ethics commit~ee to "investigate" ~he presidency of ~att G~Iffi~ le.~?s me to wnte today. This 
mvesti~~twn. IS a f~rce, a sham, perpetrated by an ehtlst chque With no leg to stand on. I ha~e seen. allegations of incompe~ence and lazm~ss_drrected toward Matt Gn~m and, by assocmtlon, Erek Nass and Mary Gillard. Regardless of if these allegations are consistent with the truth, and I frrmly believe they are not, the Student Senate has no room to talk. How much time has this organization wasted 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
H~Y, 7lJ A KIP 
BlJTAUI 
IN IOWAJTtf!A5 t-l!<eA lR/P 70
f)ff)IAJ45 
UN8l/!70N 
GIICA60/
MY 8J..Ol15e. 
I 
I 
in the name of representing students? Do you recall t~e month-long fight over whether Mr. Hambnght could hold two positions as a finan­cial manager in the Student Union? (I don't blame you if you don't remember because you probably pay as little attention to the Student Senate as I do.) Or how about when the senate spent three weeks talking about how great Saint Mary's College was following the letter from Ms. Syner and Ms. Fuller? When has the Student Senate ever had an impact on any stu­dent's life but the lives of their own members? 
I guess today we have an answer to that last question. The recent efforts of the ethics com­mittee to "investigate" Mr. Griffin have smeared his name and, by association, the entire student government. In doing so, the committee members have satisfied their own political fantasies and once again wasted time. Instead of pointing a finger at someone else, why don't you in the senate take a look at yourselves? 
Matthew Barrette 
Senior, Off-campus 
December 7, 1997 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Work consists of what­
ever a body is oblig­ed to do.... Play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do." 
-Mark Twain 

-~~~--~------------...,......_____...,_~----------------co...__...______...,.__..,..._____, 
VIEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Gender Equity, Athletics and Economics at NO 
The University's use of athletes for profit, as described by Isaac Ruiz, is often ignored. Ruiz accurately described the reality that is served most high profile ath­letes that attend Notre Dame. His point has even more significance if one takes a closer look at the social and economic environment into which these students sudden­ly find themselves. 
In the spring of 1993, the student body asked me to be part of the year 2000 study on gender equity. Though I didn't understand the choice, considering my academic performance at the time and my ever wavering status as a member of the swimming team, I was honored with the position and tried my best to put together a valid report. The report was based on interviews of athletes and Athletic Department personnel and a survey given to students exactly half of whom were athletes. 
There was a clear line drawn in the description of Notre Dame athletic teams in regard to their ability to generate profit. Two sports, football and men's basket­ball, are the only two that fall into this category. While tickets are sold for other events, in 1993 no other sports could support their own expense. 
It is necessary to interject that this distinction is not a creation of the University. Then-athletic director Dick Rosenthal persevered to make the experience of every athlete at the school equally privileged. The coaches and athletes interviewed, representing various "revenue gen­erating" and "Olympic" sports believed that this goal had been achieved. The few exceptions seemed to be out of the University's direct control. 
Women's athletics at the school were usually described by local and campus media with sex distinguishing adjec­tives. Writers did not stoop as low as using terms such as "Lady Irish." Unfortunately, one could consistently find articles in The Observer, Irish Sports Report, and Blue and Gold Illustrated describing men's basketball as "Notre Dame basketball" and women's basketball as "Notre Dame women's basketball." This treatment was present in all non-gender specific sports but was most noticeable in the one woman's sport with the revenue generating counterpart, basketball. One could argue about the weight Notre Dame could levee on the external publications. The responsibility for the articles in The Observer fall in the hands of the writers, Notre Dame students. 
There also was a discrepancy felt by students, student­athletes and coaches that the advertising of women's sports was not equal. While the University-sponsored advertising seemed fairly equivalent, the revenue gener­ating sports, men's basketball and football, clearly got more University-generated and third party funding. The advertising, however, seemed equal among the Olympic sports regardless of the sex of the athlete. If one could rationalize that athletic advertising is based on revenue, the point to further discuss the issue was moot until a Notre Dame women's sport reached that goal. The ques­tion of "Which came first ..." still nags my conscience 
• WRONG SIDE UP 
regarding this issue. 
The most dumfounding issue was that of the high pro­file athletes from revenue generating sports. There was an almost 100 percent consensus that high profile ath­letes were discriminated against because oftheir celebri­ty status, and often their race and class. The athletes in the survey who answered anonymously and were from revenue-generating sports felt they were under surveil­lance by their school, classmates, the media and local civil authorities. Those who "stuck out" because of size or recognition felt as if their every move was being scru­tinized in the classroom; on campus, and at public events on and off campus. The coaches of those sports men­tioned that they warned incoming athletes that such inspection was probable and to defend themselves against it. 
This feeling was not far from the same feelings many felt who did not fit the "cookie cutter" image of being upper-middle class, white and Catholic. The demograph­ics of the high-profile athletes and the entire student body does not match. Those athletes who felt like they represented a group every time they spoke or did some­thing felt discriminated against, and were. One cannot empathize enough to really feel what this is like without going through it first hand (not that I know either). 
The same year, such athletes were picked out of a party of drunken Notre Dame students and were the only ones taken by the local police, even though they showed no evidence of inebriation. 
As a student oflaw, still attending the University many of us love, what can be done about this Ruiz? A similar example of scrutiny is being curtailed at a West Coast university student with a fairly good record so far. Could the Notre Dame family tolerate for example a "No Hon" rule? Are the athletes just expected to take the environ­ment for what it is, and deal with the pressures as part of their scholarships and fame? Clearly, high profile ath­letes at Notre Dame are under stress that is out of bounds for any young person. Those who do well should be more than commended for their ability to survive their four years. 
Huiz mentions that Notre Dame's retention rate is among the highest. The effort that the Athletic Department extends to their athletes is perhaps superior to any in the nation. Notre Dame athletes do work hard and deserve the help given them. Any protection and support the Notre Dame family can provide to the most vulnerable students, should be justly accorded. 
Furthermore, this issue should be studied in more depth with more time and ability than was available to me in 1993. If you are interested Huiz, I'll send you the little information I still have. 
Ed Broderick '93 
edbroderick@usa.net 
ebroderi@utilicorp.com 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Candy Canes Exposed 
Do you know what the candy cane stands for? I didn't until I read the other day about its history and its significance. We always placed candy canes on our Christmas trees. They have a very special meaning, and are one of the oldest symbols of Christmas. It is shaped like a shepherd's crook because the shepherds were the first to experience Christmas. Also, if you turn it upside down, it is the letter J for Jesus. 
The colors of the candy cane have a special mean­ing, too. The larger red stripe represents the sacrifice of Christ. "For with His stripes we are healed." The smaller red stripes represent our own sacrifice of giv­ing. The white stripe is a symbol of purity. 
The peppermint plant is a member of the hyssop family, referred to in the Old Testament as a medici­nal herb used for cleansing. 
As we eat our candy cane, you might want to break it as Christ's body was broken for us, and share it with a friend. Thus, sharing is the true meaning of Christmas. 
Brother Edward Vincent Courtney, C.S.C. 


Hallucinations and the Lack of,Common Sense in the World 
I heard the distant "trip-trop" of hooves trotting on the Scott Adams, pretended to be an expert consultant and frozen ground just before I felt a small sting on the back duped a whole group of executives?" of my neck. "Grumph," I mumbled and rolled my head "No, what happened?" over. It was only when the stings were coming in time "Well, Adams disguised himself as an expert consultant with the Notre Dame Fight Song ==========;:::;::;::;::;::;::~ whose job was to help some executives 
that I realized Father Sorin was  
once again hovering over me. "Margaret! You gotta stay awake in these darned classes!" "I know, Father, but it's not easy."  MargaretShaheen  
"Not easy? Not easy? Let me  
tell you what's not easy!  Not  
easy is trying to build a univer­ 
sity in the dead of winter in an  

Indiana forest when you are fully aware that it will be months before your beard even thaws out." "Yeah, and decades before they build the first North Face store. You sure had it rough, Father Sorin." "That's right; I did, Margaret. But I made it through okay and do you know why?" "Because you had a flask of Maker's Mark in your knapsack?" "No, Margaret! I made it through because I had com­mon sense." 
"Common sense? Haven't heard of it. Do they sell that in Indiana or do you have to cross ovf!r into Michigan to get some? How's the flavor? Is it smooth? You know I like my whiskey smooth, Father." 
"Margaret! Would you lay off the sauce for a minute here! I am trying to make a point." 
"Oops. Sorry, Father. Go ahead. What's your point?" 
"The point is that everything worked out all right for me because 1used my common sense. The problem with people today is that no one uses the common sense God gave a termite." 
"What do you mean, Father?" 
"I mean there are a lot of morons out there, Margaret. Did you hear that the creator of the Dilbert comic strip, draft a new mission statement for a company in California that makes com­puter mice-not to be confused with dorm mice, Margaret." 
"Of course, Father." 
"Because many of Adams' cartoons were posted throughout the office, along with his picture, Adams wore the typical 'expert consultant' disguise-a wig and fake mustache. During the meeting he 
boasted that he was the wizard behind Procter & Gamble's 'Taste Bright Project'-a 'secret' effort to boost sales by improving the taste of soap. None of the executives thought that this was the least bit peculiar. In fact, one big shot even admitted to having tasted his soap on multiple occasions and was overjoyed at the thought of washing up with a bar of 'Grandma's Meat Loaf soap. When Adams finally outlined his mission statement, it was full of gibberish. It sounded nice, but it made no sense at all! Yet, all of the executives nodded and agreed that the idea was the best thing since flavored soap." 
"Yikes, Father. Not the sharpest tools in the shed, are they?" "Nope, Margaret. Certainly not the fastest birds in flight." 
"You know, Father, in Colorado Springs, there was a first-grader who was suspended from school for handing out 'controlled substances' in the sand box." 
"Really, what was he distributing? Crack? Cocaine? 
Anabolic steroids?" "Lemon drops." "Lemon drops?" "Yeah, the six-year old gave his friends some organic 
lemon drops. The principal was unfamiliar with that particular brand of lemon candy and was certain the young boy was involved in some shady undertakings, so he immediately called the fire department and ambu­lance rescue, who quickly declared the lemon drops harmless and the principal a moron. The makers of the lemon drops said that the principal really didn't need to go to such extremes. 'If the principal would have just smelled [the candy], he would have gotten a nose full of lemon scent' and naturally, the problem would have been solved." 
"I always knew they were nut-cases over there in Colorado. Not enough oxygen in the air." 
"Hey now, Father. You'd better watch yourself." 
"Oh, right. Well, there are some real wackos in Philadelphia, too. There's a guy over there who thought that his failing heart, diabetes and dementia were caused by an evil spell cast by his wife of 20 years. He was terri­fied that one day his wife would use her wicked voodoo to kill him off. So, one morning, while still recovering from heart surgery, he grabbed his .38 caliber pistol and shot her in the chest. Not only that, the judge heard this guy's voodoo defense and thought it sounded reasonable, so he cleared him of murder and charged him with invol­untary manslaughter." 
"I think you are right, Father. Common sense has just flown right out the window!" 
"It sure has. You know in my day, Margaret, we never acted as stupid as people today act. In fact, compared to the people of today, I am practically a genius." 
"A genius, huh, Father?" 
"Yep." 
"Then how would you explain that little blunder with the lakes when you first arrived? Do geniuses have trou­ble counting to two?" 
Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore Arts and Letters major living in farley. Her column appears every other Wednesday. She can be reached at Shaheen.3@nd.edu. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

~---~~·-·~--~~~--~--~-c~--~-·----~=---------~~-·-----·-P£-•-----=-z~~-!--~-~4 
"T

ACCENT 
Wednesday, December 10, 1997 page 13 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Manning, Woodson and Moss top all-American list 
Associated Press "It's the team everyone talks about and I'm proud to be part NEW YORK of it." 
Peyton Manning, the classy Woodson, the Wolverines' Tennessee quarterback who led cornerback/receiver/punt the Volunteers to the returner, may have been the Southeastern Conference title, nation's most exciting player and a pair of game-breakers -this season. He had seven inter­Michigan's Charles Woodson ceptions and four touchdowns and Marshall's Randy Moss --two on pass receptions, one were selected to The Associated on a 33-yard reverse and the Press' All-America team on other a 78-yard punt return Tuesday. Manning, who opted against Ohio State. to play his senior season rather Moss. the flashy wide receiver than jump to the NFL, for the Thundering Herd. set directed the third-an NCAA record with 25 ranked Vols to an IC: k touchdown catches this sea­11-1 record and r:r .........~, son, including three in last 
~~~~h~~ again~ 0N~~ ~.;..·.······.··,-,,r w~:;:io4 -i~4 t~~n ~~~~ 
~i~~brasaka, '~ I ... A ~o~fe~e~c~ ~tl~ 
possible game. The 6­
national 5, 210­
title on pound 
the line. 
The 6-foot­
5, 222­

pound son Simmons and cornerback Dre' a 4-7 team, led the nation in three punts for TDs and led the of former Bly. The threesome helped the rushing with 1,893 yards on nation with a 19.4-yard aver­quarterback sophomore caught 90 Tar Heels finish with the 279 carries. He also had 25 age on 19 returns. He also Archie passes for 1,647 yards nation's second ranked defense, touchdowns and led the nation caught 39 passes for 653 yardsManning com­-an average of 18.3 behind Michigan. in scoring with 152 points. Enis and eight TDs and completed 2 pleted 287 of yards per catch. Ellis had 1 7 tackles for losses ran for 1,363 yards and 20 of' 2 passes for 86 yards and a 477 passes for Also making the and nine sacks, while Simmons touchdowns. He also caught 25 TD. 3,819 yards team were a trio chipped in with 119 tackles and passes for 215 yards. Completing the offense was and 36 touch­of North three sacks and Bly added five Joining Moss at wideout was Kansas State placekicker downs. Carolina interceptions. Florida's Jacquez Green, who Martin Gramatica, who hit on 
"It's a great defenders -Nebraska also placed three caught 61 passes for 1,024 19 of 20 field goals and 37 of 38 honor to be end Greg players on the team -guard yards and nine TDs. The tight extra points.named to the E l I is , Aaron Taylor and defensive end was Alonzo Mayes of' The defense has an Atlantic All-America I i n e • linemen Grant Wistrom and Oklahoma State, who missed Coast Conference flavor, with team." Manning. backer Jason Peter. Wistrom had 17 the Cowboys' final four games end Andre Wadsworth and line­the Vols' first AP Brian tackles for losses, 8 1/2 sacks with a separated shoulder after backer Sam Cowart of Florida All-America quar­and forced three fumbles, while catching 29 passes for 424 State and linebacker Anthony
.. 
terback, said. Peter had six sacks and two yards and seven TDs. Simmons of Clemson joining the fumble recoveries. Joining Taylor along the three Carolina players. The 
Three schools -Florida offensive line were LSU's Alan other linebacker was Ohio State, LSU and Washington -Faneca, Washington's Benji State's Andy Katzenmoyer. each placed two players on the Olson and UCLA's Chad Wadsworth, the ACC's player AP team. Overhauser. Olin Kreutz of of the year, led the nation with 
The running backs were Washington was the center. 19 sacks, while Cowart, who 
Photo courtesy of Texas Sports Information 
Ricky Williams of Texas and Tim Dwight of Iowa was the was out last season with a knee
Texas running back Ricky Williams was 
Curtis Enis of Penn State. all-purpose player. The 5-9, injury, led the Seminoles with
the nation's leading rusher. 
lliams, despite playing for 185-pound senior, returned 116 tackles. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame olllce, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 


WALK TO CAMPUS  1 ,2,&3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  LAPTOP PC, PENTIUM,  TODAY IS THE LAST ISSUE  Worried about vandalism to  
NOTICES  2·5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272·  CDROM, ETHERNET. $1150. X2207  OF THE OBSERVER. SEE YOU IN 1998.  your car over Christmas Break?  
232-2595  6551  Craft Tool & Mold, located in  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi. from ND campus on U.S. 31/33. Call (616)684-4633.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­ISTRY 219 291 7153  FUTON 4 SALE $150 CALL FOR SALE . 273-6212 ALMOST NEW I...________--' I TICKETS  Student Activites is accepting applications for LaFortune Building Managers and 24 Hour Lounge Monitors. Apply  Airport Industrial Park, has room to store 20-25 vehicles over the holiday recess Nfor a donation.  
Spring Break '98 Cancun. Jamaica, Bahamas. &  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  Near Campus -1338 M1ner St. 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch.  '==========---'  at 315 LaFortune.  ALL donations will then be given to the Hope Rescue  
Florida. Group Discounts &  SEMESTER OR NEXT  New Roof, Siding & Carpet.  Will pay cash for ND-LSU Bowl  150 cars;  Mission.  
Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips,  SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097  Central Air & Full Basement  Tix. 1·800-591-1555 Buddy.  Multiple campus buildings;  Call233-7157.  
Earn Cash & Go Free!  $44,900 1-800-382-2952  Statue of Sacred Heart;  
1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com  Room available for next semester 4 ND students as  elec guitar w/case, $65. boss  PERSONAL  No witnesses??? 2 words: El Nino  ·-THE COPY SHOP -EXTENDED STUDY DAYS &  
roomates. 1 mile from cam­ meB gtr fx $200. x2207  FINALS STORE HOURS  
"Don't Get Burned on Spring  pus.  Looking for a unique gift?  Don't crack any books yet!  Wed 7:30am-Midnight  
Break"  89, Bonneville Loaded, V.  Bring in your favorite pictures  Rent a movie!  Thu 7:30am-Midnight  
Spring Break Packages are  Call 273-2910. Ask for Noelle  Clean, $3000 OBO 277-3384  and we'll create a personalized  ND VIDEO'S OPEN DURING  Fri 7:30am-Midnight  
going fast. Stop in Anthony  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  STUDY DAYS!!  Sat. 9:00am-Midnight  
Travel and check out the best  Spacious one bedroom condo  THE COPY SHOP  Th-Sat. 6pm-12am  Sun 9:00am-Midnight  
Spring Break vacations around.  for rent at Topsfield. $440 a  Seized Cars from $175.  LaFortune Student Center  LaFun Basement  Mon 7:30am-Midnight  
Book your reservations before  month. Immediate occupancy.  Porsches, Cadillacs, Cr.evys,  Tue 7:30am-Midnight  
Dec. 19 and save $! Don't take  Call 235-3425  BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  this place is cool  Driving thru or near BUFFALO  Wed 7:30am-Midnight  
a chance with an unknown  4WD's. Your Area. Toll Free  for Christmas break! I'm look­ Thu 7:30am-Midnight  
agency or some 1-800 number.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME  1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-for cur­ bye for now, see you in 098  ing for a ride! Will pay/help  Fri 7:30am-7:00pm  
Anthony Travel, Inc.  FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS  rent listings.  drive!  Christmas Break Hours Begin  
LaFortune Student Center  AND OTHER ND-SMC  CATERING-CALL FAZOLI'S  Call Leah, x0533.  HAVE A MERRY CHRIST­ 
EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS • ILOST & FOUND I5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN.  BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES. ALL SPRINGBREAK  277-4008 Would you like a tossed salad  -­THE COPY SHOP -LaFortune Student Center  MAS! so when is movie night? and  
WALK.  locations. Cancun, Jamaica.  today??????  High-Speed Copies  who is making the selection?  
243-0658.  from $399, Florida, from $89,  Canon Color Laser Copies  
Texas, Mazatlan, Bahamas.  Digital Color Printing  i'm never admitting to the inter­ 
1,2 & 3 BDRM  Register your group or be our  Hey  Binding & Laminating  est or the follow through  
CLASS RING FOUND ON  HOMES.G!LLIS PROPER­ Campus Rep. 800-327-6013  Sweet  Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  though  
·.  NORTH QUAD!  TIES.  www.icpt.com  Daisy!  Phone 631-COPY  MC, AK. HV -·  
CALL634-1101 TO CLAIM  272-6551  MOVING SALE!  ND Inquisition  BandT this is your last official  So, only a few more days of  
'89 Olds-1 03k-one owner­ http://rosenberg­ classified of the semester  legitimate co-habitation ... Good  
Studio Apt.  $2200  3a.student.nd.edu  luck on finals. It's been one hell  
Large, completely fum., 1st fir.,  dining table/4 chrs-$30  We made Griffin do it  unoffical classifieds  of a semester!  
FOR RENT  1.5 mi. north of campus. $500/mo incl. utilities. To the  desk-$20 10 gal fish tank-$10  ryan has the quote of the day:  you know ... that sarah quote of  -· MK :-)  
right tenant, rent & garage  futon mattress-$30  ''yeah getting your teeth pulled  the week  
6 BDRM HOME NEXT  parking negotiable. 219-277­ phone stand-$5  sucks, but the drugs are  Let it snow, let it snow, let it  
FALL.272-6551  2211.  call255-3511  great..."  you know kel wants to ...  snow  


---------------~----­
Wednesday, December 10, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Temple dominates, picks up first win in new arena 

Associated Press 
PIHL.ADELPIIIA 

It would have been tough to have scripted a better opening night. 
No. 20 Temple opened its new arena Tuesday night with a 76-61 victory over No. 17 Fresno State in a game in which the outcome was known within a few m"inutes of the pregame ceremonies. 
It wasn't long after the politi­cians and dignitaries cleared the court at The Apollo of Temple that the Owls (5-1) had their 2-3 zone defense working and the Bulldogs (3-2) totally frustrated. 
Three consecutive steals led to fast-break baskets,. Temple had an 8-3 lead within the first two minutes and the decibel level was given a good test from the sellout crowd of 10,205. 
A 30-7 run had the lead to 45-18 with 1:43 left in the first half and McGonigle Hall, the 3,900-seat former home of the Owls that still stands next door on campus, had become a dis­tant thought despite a 177-29 record there over 28 years. 
Lynard Stewart had 16 points on 7 -of-9 shooting, a career­high 15 rebounds and five steals for Temple, Rasheed Brokenborough added 16 points and Lamont Barnes had 14. 
Rafer Alston had 17 points, all in the second half, and Terrance Roberson added 15 for the Bulldogs, whose lowest output this season had been 69 points in a one-point loss to Arkansas. 
Temple scored with ease in the first half while Fresno State struggled against the zone, committing 14 turnovers and shooting just 28 percent (8-of­29). 
The Owls, who had 13 steals at halftime, turned those 14 turnovers into 25 points. 
Brokenborough and Stewart each had 10 points at halftime, many on ahead-of-the-field 
layups and dunks off steals by the zone. 
Alston, Fresno State's point guard, went scoreless in the first half, missing three shots, and had six turnovers. 
The Owls' biggest lead of the second half was 68-35 with 
8:29 to play. The Bulldogs closed the game with an 18-3 run as the noise level evened off in a ragged second half. 
In a ceremony before the game, the center circle was named in honor current Temple coach John Chaney and longtime Owls coach and Basketball Hall of Farner Harry Litwack. 
The only flaw on openin"g night was a small fire in the overhead scoreboard after some pregame fireworks. The string that was on fire. burned for two or three minutes before petering out. 
Northern Iowa 84, Iowa 78 
Chris Burdine scored 17 points and Northern Iowa used a pesky man-to-man defense to defeat No. 10 Iowa 84-78 on Tuesday night, the Hawkeyes' first loss in seven games. 
Darian DeVries finished with 13 points and TyJuan Finley 11 for Northern Iowa (4-1), which had lost seven straight and nine of 11 to Iowa. 
Ryan Bowen scored 17 points, Ricky Davis 16 and Darryl Moore 12 for Iowa, which had been averaging 95 points a game and winning by an aver­age margin of 35 points before playing its first road game. 
Northern Iowa grabbed a 41­36 lead at the half -the largest margin by either team -during which there were 11 lead changes. 
Finley scored Northern Iowa's first two baskets of the second half, keying a 9-0 spurt that pushed the Panthers' lead to 50-36 with 16:19 remaining. A bank shot by Finley with 8:23 gave Northern Iowa its biggest lead at 64-46 before Iowa ral­lied. 
Bowen scored seven points in a 16-6 spurt that brought the Hawkeyes back to 70-62 with 
3:41 remaining. Davis' two free throws a little more than two minutes later chopped the deficit to 76-71. 
Burdine made one of two free throws, and Brian Heying rebounded the miss and hit two free throws after being fouled by Dean Oliver for a 79-71 edge with 1 :07 left. 

212.229.5710 X19, 800.523.5411 X19 [Outside New York City) 
Or email us at gfadmit@newschool.edu 
OTHER AREAS OF INTEREST: 
Ph.D./M.A. PROGRAMS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAMS Anthropology • Economics • Philosophy Gender Studies and Feminist Theory Political Science • Psychology • Sociology Historical Studies • Psychoanalytic Studies 
\)' New School for Social Research 
Graduate Faculty Office of Admissions 65 Fifth Avenue. New York N.Y. 10003 
I 
I 
~ 
j 

-----------------=--_...~~--------------------­ --------~_......-----­ 
page 16  The Observer· SPORTS  Wednesday, December 10, 1997  
• CollEGE FooTBALL  

Robinson's 'crowning end' to legendary a career 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Eddie Robinson was in the third grade when he decided to be a football coach. 
On Tuesday, some 70 years later. college football's win­ningest coach called his enshrinement into the Hall of Fame the "crowning end" to his 58 years at Grambling. 
"Today is perhaps the great­est moment in my life -my heart is humbled and grateful," Robinson. who won 408 games at Grambling, said during a luncheon before Tuesday night's induction dinner. 
"The Hall of Fame, as the world knows. is the elite circle where many of the truly great contributors to the game of football are enshrined. I am thankful and very, very proud that you have chosen me on my 

Nebraska's Osborne IDay retire after Huskers' bowl appearance 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
The buzz across Nebraska this week is that Tom Osborne doesn't have too many more coaching milestones to pass and he's had some trouble with an irregular heartbeat this fall. 
So that means he's ready to retire. Right? 
"There are things you need to know about my retirement," Osborne, 60, told about 30 reporters during his weekly news conference Tuesday. 
"The first thing I will do is talk to the assistant coaches. 

~ Then I will talk to the players. Then I'll talk to you, and you're not going to hear it from me until I've done that," he said. Humors swirled in barber" shops and Internet chat rooms after Nebraska's 54-15 victory over Texas A&M on Saturday in 
the Big 12 championship. 
The unconfirmed word was that Osborne was expected to announce his retirement Tuesday. handing the reigns to assistant Frank Solich. 
Osborne, who has spent 25 seasons as coach, reached his 250th career victory on Nov. 1 with a 69-7 defeat of Oklahoma. He insists all the retirement rumors are just talk. 
If he chose to retire, Osborne would do so at the top of his game. 
The Cornhuskers are 59-3 over the past five years with five straight 11-win seasons. 
But Osborne said he puts in long hours, like other members of his coaching staff, because he wants to lead the No. 2 Cornhuskers (12-0) to a'n Orange Bowl victory against No.3 Tennessee (11-1). 
"If you want to call the plays, you want to make the adjust­ments on Saturdays and you want to be actively involved, that's what you've got to do," Osborne said. 
"There is another way to do it -to turn it over to coordina­tors and kind of be a supervi­sor.... In my case, that would be self-defeating because that's not what I enjoy. I enjoy foot­ball. I enjoy the players," he said. 
Then in the same breath, Osborne admitted that he doesn't see himself hanging on forever. 
"I don't think I can do that 
until I'm 70," said Osborne, 
who turns 61 in February. 
There's frequent talk about Osborne's health. After 

merits and my career as a coach ranking with the truly immortals of this game." 
The 78-year-old coach then talked about what football has meant to him. 
"I love this game, but I love the young men who play the game more than I love the game," he said. "One thing I learned was how to win without bragging, and I learned how to lose without offering excuses. 
"A lot has been given to Eddie Robinson and I always felt that it's fitting to give something back, so that's what we tried to do in our profession. It's a pro­fession of love ... and I feel that I could crank it up and go aqother 50 years and get it right." 
He smiled. and after the laughter subsided. Robinson again turned serious about his enshrinement. 
Nebraska's 77-14 victory over probably will come back." Iowa State on Nov. 15, Osborne According to Blackistone's was hospitalized overnight for Gould Medical Dictionary, an tests related to an irregular atrial fibrillation patient usually heartbeat. has varied heartbeats -from 
Osborne has repeatedly 60 to 180 beats per minute. insisted he's fine. On Tuesday, The beating is "grossly irregu­he even offered reporters a lar in intensity and rhythm." medical briefing on what's been Osborne said he still works diagnosed -a condition called out-running or lifting weights atrial fibrillation. -about 30 minutes daily. A 
"Atrial fibrillation is some­few weeks ago, he even jokingly thing people can live with," he challenged reporters to a three­said. "It can cause strokes. It mile run. can cause heart attacks. It's not "''m doing OK at the present a good condition to have. and it time," Osborne said Tuesday. 
LOOKING FOR CAREER OPTIONS? 
Saint Mary's College Accelerated Programs 
For individuals with abaccalaureate degree as of May 1998 in !!ill' major. 
ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING 
• 
Earn aB.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months 

•Program begins May 26, 1998 

•
Application deadline: February 15, 1998 


ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN ACCOUNTING 
• 
Earn acertificate in Accounting in 10 months 

•
Course work is intended to cover material typically tested on the CPA examination • Program begins August 25, 1998 •Application deadline: June 15, 1998 


-tit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
For more information, please contact the Admission Office at 219/284-4587. FAX (219)284-4n6 •hHp: I/www.saintmarys.edu • E-Mail: admission@saintmarys.edu 
THE NATION'S PREMIER CATHOliC WOMEN'S COLLEGE 

"My family, my friends and I will always cherish this moment," he said. "It is a moment I share with all the players I coached at Grambling and the Grambling administra­tion -past and present -and for all of the other people who supported me and Grambling through the years." 
When he was growing up, Hobinson said he had a hard time telling his friends all he wanted to do was coach. 
"I wanted to coach ever since I was in the third grade, and I make no bones about it," Hobinson said. 
"Many times, though, I was afraid when I was in a group to say it," he added. 'That's all you want to be? A coach?' But that's all I wanted to be. I fell in. love with this football and fell in love with coaching and this is the way I ended up." 
KRT Photo Former Grambling head coach, Eddie Robinson, is the all-time win­ningest coach in college football history. 

Interested in Helping Make Junior Parents Weekend '98 a Success? 
join the Sophomore ]PW Committee! 
Questions? Call Sarah,at 4-0830 
Do You Have Type 1 (insulin-dependent Diabetes?) 
If you are between the ages of 18 and 25 and have type 1 diabetes; we are looking for you. A research group at the Bayer Corporation is currently developing new tests to predict who will develop diabetes before disease symptoms appear. During these early stages of research, blood samples from people who currently have type 1 diabetes are necessary. If you volunteer to assist in this study, you will be asked to do three things: 
1. Sign a consent form allowing us to collect a blood sample and use that sample for our research. 2. Fill out a brief medical history form. 3. Allow a registered phlebotomist to draw 1 00 ml 
(approx. 3.5 oz.) of blood from your arm. This process will take approximately 30 minutes and will take place at the Bayer Corporation location in Elkhart. 
Donors will be given $100.00 to compensate them for their time and inconvenience. 
If you are interested in participating in this study, please call Shannon Gleason at 262-6578 for more information. 

Wednesday, December 10, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 
Bulls rally behind Jordan, defeat NY 


Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan became the third­leading scorer in NBA history Tuesday night, scoring 29 points to lead the Chicago Bulls to a 100-82 victory over the slumping New York Knicks. 
Toni Kukoc added 20 points, going 4-for-4 from 3-point range and 6-for-6 overall. in helping the Bulls to their first four-game winning streak this season. 
Patrick Ewing scored 22 points for the Knicks, who shot 36 percent in los-
NEED A STUDIJ .B'RTAX:?? Come to the ... 
Women's Resource Center 


Monday, 12/8 -Friday, 12/12 Montgomery Theatre, 1st Floor LaFortune 
Monday, 12/8 7pm Thelma and Louise Tuesday, 12/9 7pm The Color Purple Wednesday, 12/10 7pm Heathers Thursday, 12/11 7pm Alien Friday, 12/12 7pm Chasing Amy 
Refreshments will be served!!! All films will begin at 7:00pm Everything is Free!!! 

ing for the fifth time in seven games. New York has lost five straight on the road. 
Jordan, the NBA's nine-time scoring leader, has 27,432 points in 867 games over 13 seasons. He moved past Moses Malone, who scored 27,409 points in 1,045 games during his 19­year career. 
Jordan's 31.6-point average is the league's best ever. 
Only Wilt Chamberlain (31,419} and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar {38,387} had more points than Jordan, who said he'll probably retire at season's end 
because coach Phil Jackson is b e i n g squeezed out by manage­ment. 
Jordan also was involved in an alterca­tion with 2:52 to go that resulted in the ejection of Knicks guard Chris Childs. 
As New York's Charlie Ward made a 3-pointer, Jordan andChilds battled for rebounding position. Jordan elbowed Childs in the head, Childs threw the basketball at Jordan and the two exchanged chest bumps and words. 
Each was assessed a technical foul, and Childs had to leave because it was his second of the night. 
Jordan missed his first three shots but then made four straight to move two points. ahead of Malone. He had three consecutive baskets as the Bulls finished th'J first quarter with a 12-3 run to take a 26-18 lead, and the Knicks never pulled closer than eight the rest of the way. 
New York had a chance to get within six with eight minutes left, but John Starks missed a 3-pointer and the Bulls used a 7-2 spurt,capped by Jordan's five points, to go up 82-68. 

KAT Photo Michael Jordan became the third-leading scorer in NBA history when he dropped 29 on the Knicks, leading the Bulls to victory, 100-82. 
Recycle The Observer, please. 




Continuing
the 
Fiesta 
SABOR LATINO 
TODAY 
Lafortune Ballroom
• 
9:30-12:30pm 

~-----------------------~--~--------------~ 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
• 
• SWIMMiNG 

Men swim to victory at Notre Dame Invitational 
ByMATTYUNG 
Sports Writer 
Last Thursday through Friday at the Notre Dame Invitational. the Irish men's swimming and diving team added another merit to its already accomplished season. The men decisively won the four-team meet, scoring 889 points to finish ahead of Syracuse (779), Ohio University (617), and University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee (1 09). 
The first day of action started with a bang. Syracuse set two new pool records (Dan Karlson, 200 individual medley in 1:51.44; and the 400 medley relay in 3:23.66), but was unable to stop Notre Dame's talented attack. Notre Dame's 200 freestyle relay raced off and brought back the first place finish in 1:24.56. Sophomore diver Herb Huesman hit his cue, chipping in a valuable win in the one­meter dive. The day ended with Notre Dame holding a strong 317-211 lead over second place Syracuse. 
Friday was another strong day for the Irish. Huesman con­tinued to dominate the diving board, easily winning the three-meter dive with 552.8 points. 
Sophomore Antonio Fonseca turned heads with his winning 57.28-second performance in the 100-meter breaststroke, Notre Dame's seventh fastest in history. Scott Zumbach and Ray Fitzpatrick recorded second place finishes in the 400 indi­vidual medley and 200 freestyle, allowing the Irish breathing room and a comfort­able lead. 
Saturday's three Irish victo­ries showed that the team saved its best performances for last. Zumbach fiercely compet­ed in the 200 butterfly and was rewarded with a split-second win in 1:51.69, the ninth fastest time by any Notre Dame swim­mer. 
Freshman Dan Szilier lived up to his reputation as "The Money-Man," recording the eighth fastest Irish 200 breast­stroke and a 2:05.07 win. To seal the deal, the Irish 400 freestyle relay swam four tough legs before touching the wall first. 


The Notre Dame Invitational's results bode well for the team's tournament in mid-January at Milwaukee and mid-February home dual against UW-Milwaukee. With the first half of the season nearly over, the Irish have shown that they are a force to be reckoned with and have set the stage for a much improved record from last year's 6-8 showing. 
With four dual wins, two first place tournament finishes, and a single loss, the Irish feel con­fident in their chances for con­
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Notre Dame's impressive performance at the ND Invitational led the Irish to decisive wins over Syracuse,
tinued success and seem 
Ohio, and University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee.
undaunted by the opposition. 


Are you looking for cluster computers late at night, but your favorite cluster is closed? Don't forget that the OIT has computers available 24 hours daily in the following locations: 
*CCMB 210  25 Mac, 10 Sun  
DeBartolo 133  38 Mac, 40 Windows  
*Fitzpatrick 177  99 Sun, 12 Mac  
*Nieuwland 203  52 Sun  
*Nieuwland 132  12 Mac, 12 SGI  
*Riley 211  15 Mac  

*You might need to enter a door code to en­ter these clusters. If you need to know a door code, bring your valid NO, SMC, or Holy Cross 10 to any staffed cluster and ask the cluster consultant for the code. 
Ducks, Rabbits~rechauns 

Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesJrom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 114 of .our residents are part of the · Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 


Come visit us at ;~~<;;,. 
North Shore Club ~~,~; 
Angela at. the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Dai(y 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 
A Giftfor Mom&Dad 
or Someone Special 
Matthew Erickson jewelers has created a genuine long-stem rose for her and a genuine cigar for him. Both are preserved forever in 24K pure gold. 
Perfect gifts for those difficult to buy for. 
24K cigar with walnut holder 

Phone orders welcome 
Order early as these will be sellouts again this year Toll Free 888-290-5118 
Matthew Erickson jewelers 


Wednesday, December 10, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 -... 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Free-agent Boggs headed to expansion Devil Rays 
Associated Press 
TAMPA. Fla. 

It won't be enough for Wade Boggs to get 3,000 hits. He still has a hunger for winning. 
The free agent third baseman agreed Tuesday to a $750,000, one-year contract with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, saying he's as intent on helping the new American League team be an immediate success as he is on achieving a personal mile­stone. 
''I've come here to help an organization on a commitment to win," the five-time AL bat­ting champion said. "Just because it's the first year, I don't want people to come in here with the attitude of 'Oh, we'll do it down the road.' I've been on winners in the past. I've won a World Series. I know what it takes to win.... I've been on losing teams, too, and it's no fun." 
Boggs, 39, will start his 17th major league season needing 200 hits to reach 3,000 for his career. He overcame a slow start to hit .292 in 103 games for the New York Yankees in 1997. 
After making $2 million last year, Boggs' contract with the Devil Rays calls for a base salary of $500,000 in 1998 with a club option for 1999 at $750,000 with a $250,000 buy­out. 
The option year becomes guaranteed if Boggs makes 500 plate appearances next season. He can earn up to $750,000 in performance bonuses: $250,000 for 400 plate appear­ances and $50,000 for each 10 plate appearances after that up to 500. 
Despite his age, the Devil Rays view him as an everyday player. And so does Boggs. 
He recovered from back trou­ble that bothered him during the 1996 World Series to win the Yankees' starting third base job last spring, then struggled during the first half and wound up playing behind Charlie Hayes again. 
"I went to spring training with the intentions of winning my job back, and that's exactly what I did," Boggs said. 
"I had some contact lens problems in the beginning of May and that sort of led to my demise. I was hitting .234 at the All-Star game, sat on the couch for three days and said to myself, 'I don't like what I'm seeing."' 
He corrected his vision by changing the strength of his 

Affordable Off-Campus Housing! 

DISMAS HOUSE 
Where students and former prisoners create a positive living environment 
$280 monthly includes a furnished room, all meals, telephone, utilities, free laundry, cable TV & more. 
Call: 233-8522 
contacts, and hit .374 the remainder of the year to raise his average to .292. It was only the second time in his career that he finished below .302. 
Still, after being a regular for 11 seasons with the Boston Red Sox and most of the five years he spent with the Yankees, Boggs had difficulty adjusting to a role as a part-time player. 
"I was sort of sequestered to the bench for a portion of the season," he said. "It was sort of ironic that I spent 15 years of playing in pain. And last year, I was pain-free and sitting on the bench. There was something wrong with that scenario." 
The .331 career hitter was the fourth free agent signed by the Devil Rays in six days. 
Tampa Bay got pitcher Wilson Alvarez ($35 million for five years) and outfielder Dave Martinez ($3.75 million for two years) last week, then added designated hitter Paul Sorrento ($5.25 million for two years) on Monday. And as with each of those signings, as well as the acquisition of closer Roberto Hernando ($22.5 million for four 0 years). the desire to live year-round in the Tampa Bay area was a factor. 
"This is a special day in my career because I get to come home," Boggs said. 
"I've spent 21 years in profes­sional baseball -16 on the big-league level -and done a lot of traveling, packed a lot of UPS boxes, along with my wife, and I felt it was time to come home." 
While Boggs' contract includes a club option for a sec­ond season, he and the Devil Rays would be tickled if he hits well enough to get 3,000 hits by the end of 1997. 
"I don't think it'll take that 
long. l need 200 more, and the 
countdown's on," he said. 



Communities ofFaith Sharing and Scripture Study 
To be part of a small faith sharing group.... To deepen understanding of Scripture.... To pray for world concerns.... To be guided by the Spirit.... 
To celebrate, sing, and give praise! 
Discover ETltnzazls!! 
Information and applications in your Hall or Campus Ministry. 
For questions please call631-5242 and ask for  
Kate, .John, Sylvia, .lim, Chandra, or Sarah.  1~1  
(?MPUSMNIS"ID'  

African American (AA) 
CENTER FOR 
and
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS Hispanic (H) 
•Leadership Intern Programs• (LIP) 
Summer of 1998 
$2300.00 for 10 week program 
Learn leadership and community building 
Three elective Theology credits 
H AA 
Chicago Chicago San Diego Detroit 
South Bend (other areas} 
(Lexington) (Dallas} ( ) possible areas for '98 (San Antonio} 
Sponsored by: Black Alumni of ND Hispanic Alumni of ND Center for Social Concerns Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
Applications available at CSC and OMSA Deadline for applications: Feb. 13th 
0 
There will be a information session on Jan. 21st at the Center for Social Concerns 6:00 -7:00 pm 
' 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
... ­
• BASKETBALL 

Irish win exhibition behind Friel's hot shooting
' 
'
I 
I I By JOE CAVATO 
I 
I Assistant Sports Editor 
I 
I 
I Christmas came early for 
I 
I Notre Dame fans at the Joyce I 
I Center last night. The Irish I I connected on 14 three-pointers I and every time a they dialed I long distance the cheerleaders
I 
I tossed t-shirts into the gleeful I crowd.
I 
I Coach John MacLeod's team I I hosted a team sponsored by
I I 
Marathon Oil in an exhibition 

I 
I contest that would not count in I the record books. 
I I Apparently, no one told Keith 
I Friel that. The sophomore
I 
I guard played Santa Claus as he I 
I hit nine from behind the arc I leading his squad to a 91-81 
I 
I victory. I I "It was good to see Keith get I rocking here," MacLeod said.
I I 
"He's gaining more and more confidence. He was really on fire and our guys recognized it and kept getting the ball to him." 
In the first half Friel defined what it means to be in "The Zone," hitting all six of his field­goal attempts for 18 points in the first 11 minutes. The sophomore guard finished with 27 points on 9-of-16 shooting including 9-of-13 from three point land. 
"That shows a certain sense of maturity," MacLeod said of Friel's performance. "You could tell he was in a rhythm. He cracked the first one and you could tell he was on fire." 
Friel sparked an explosive Irish offense in the first half as Notre Dame got out to a 21-8 lead in the first five minutes. Pat Garrity hit his three field goal attempts for six points. and he only played the first six minutes of the contest to allow the younger players to get much needed experience. 
"It was a good chance to get the younger players a chance to run the offense," junior guard Antoni Wyche said. "It was good for them to play against real competition." 
"Winning wasn't the key thing tonight," MacLeod said. "We wanted the players to keep executing and getting better and play against a bigger, more experienced team." 
That is exactly what MacLeod got. 
Freshman forward Leviticus Williamson took advantage of that opportunity. The Texas 

I 
! I 
I I 
I 
t 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I 
I I 
I I 
I 
I I I I I I I I 
native saw his most extensive action of the year, playing 26 minutes and finishing with 14 points. 
Williamson added seven rebounds, five on the offensive end, and also tlashed some of his athleticism in a first-half, crowd-pleasing dunk. 
"That was a thunderous dunk with conviction," MacLeod said. "He knows how to score the ball, he scored a lot of points in Texas. But, he's just starting out and he is just a pup. It's fun watching these young players develop." 
What was also fun to watch was the shooting exhibition put on by the Irish in the first 12 minutes of play, giving Notre Dame 41 points by the eight minute mark. 
Point guard Martin Ingelsby kept the offense running smoothly with seven assists in the first half on his way to 12 in the game. But the way Friel and the Irish were shooting, assists were not to difficult to come by. 
Notre Dame shot 52 percent from the field and 60 percent from three-point land in the first as the home team got out to a 46-22 lead with just over seven minutes left in the half. 
Marathon managed to pull within eight by the break. 
Dayrl Cunningham, a Kansas State product, had 10 of his team high 22 points in the first as the ferocious pace of the Irish attack slowed down and the lead was trimmed to 50-42. 
Friel started the second half the same way he did the first, but after his seventh consecu­tive three he finally cooled off. 
Damon Flint, a former 
Cincinnati Bearcat standout, lead another Marathon come­back with 14 second-half points as the lead was trimmed to four points with just over ten min­utes left in the contest. 
Phil I Iickey had nine of his 11 points in the second half and Antoni Wyche had eight of his 11 in the second. 
"We'll have some situations where Pat is in foul trouble or maybe injured, and Phil and I arc going to be the leaders next year," Wyche explained. "So, coach gave us the opportunity to try to provide some leader­ship and get an idea of how we can score when Pat is not on the floor." 
Forward Todd Palmer also got in on the fun with eight points. The sophomore had six rebounds, including three on the offensive end, leading to most of his points. Freshman forward Hans Hasmussen also turned in a good effort with seven rebounds in 18 minutes. 
The Irish continued to shoot well in the second half finishing the game shooting 54 percent from three point land and 4 7 percent overall. 
The sharp shooting of the Irish was certainly a welcome sight to MacLeod, who entered the year unsure of his team's capabilities from the outside. 
Though the season is still young, the confidence of the 4-2 Irish is soaring as their losses· have come to perennial NCAA Tournament participants Marquette and Indiana. But Notre Dame has recovered from those two road losses and is fresh off something that has been as elusive as bowl games for the football team: a Big East 

NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
-road win. 


"Our guys are feeling real good about themselves," MacLeod said. "What happened Saturday (beating Pittsburgh) is a key factor. It's a confidence booster to get a conference win on the road, it's a shot in the arm because we've struggled." 
"We lost our first two road games and we needed to break that trend and bounce back against Pittsburgh," Wyche said. "That gave us a lot of con-· fidence and we have a couple of games over break and hopefully it will carry over to our next Big East game against St. John's." 

•I 
Counseline 
Fill Your Head ... Counseline gives you the information you need 1 X 7793 Monday -Thursday 4pm-12am 
Counseline is an audio tape info. service sponsored by the Psych Club and the University Counseling Center providing info. on topics including: 
Dating and relationships Facing anxiety and fear CoP,ing with stress Unaerstanding eating disorders Date rape Dealing with loneliness and depression Recogn,izing the early signs of alcoholism ~ecoqnizing suicidal potential 1n otners 
For a complete listing of all the tapes check the front of your directory 

----~------------------------~----------------~-~-----------------~--­
,-~ 
l 
j 
~ 
1 

IWednesday, December 10, 1997 j
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
' 
t 

• HOCKEY 
Irish prepare for Wisconsin 
College dead even before even­Dhadphale has converted on
Home-away 
tually losing. 78 percent of his shots (an "You're always trying to get average of one goal per 3.6 better," commented Poulin. "So shots on goal). With 10 goals
series with 
when we schedule these non­already this season, he has 
CCIIA games, we want to play already doubled his goal total 
the best teams in the country. from last year. 
We want to go and play in hos­He stands in second in the By CHARLEY GATES tile environments, because CCHA for goals scored, trailing Sporrs Writer that's how you improve. These only Michigan's Bill Mcukalt, 
games are a good test for us." who has 14. Thn Notm Dame hockey team Wisconsin, which was ranked Simon has been Mr. (8-6-2 overall, 5-5-2 CCHA) as high as No. 8 nationally, will Consistency for the Irish this 
travels to Wisconsin tonight for definitely challenge Poulin's season. He has recorded at a non-Central Collegiate Boys of Winter. least one point in 12 of the I Iockey 1\ssociation contest. Following this two game set, Notre Dame's last 15 games. 
The teams return to the Joyce Notre Dame has a 15-day lay­With 16 points, he leads the Center for a 7 p.m. game on off, not returning to action until Irish and stands seventh ~n the Friday night. Dec. 27 against Northeastern. CCHA. "In the past we have fared They do not return to CCHA Simon's seven goals are near­well in non-conference games," action until Jan. 2, when they ly double his total from last stated head coach Dave Poulin. play Miami University. year (4 goals). and his three 
Indeed they have. Already Two big reasons for Notre ·power-play goals equal his this season, Notre Dame has Dame's success so far lie in the freshman year total, while his defeated national powerhouses stellar play of two of its for­two short-handed ones equalSt. Cloud State and Michigan wards: junior Aniket Dhadphale Notre Dame's team total for all State. They also played Boston and sophomore Ben Simon. of 1996-97. 
the Badgers 
Diamond Price Quotations 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complilnentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
1~he Diainond ;,l_uthority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.rn. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

It's there ---in the back of your closet ---an article of clothing you'll never wear. The one grandma gave you. The one you pack every yearfor school but you don't know why. 

e WANT it! 
e'll BE Around Collecting clothes donations in dorms o'n Thursday, Dec. 11th. So sacrifice a little for those who need a lot!!! 
St. SPONSORED BY ST. EDWARD'S HALL 

The Observer/Joe Star!< Chad Chipchase and the Irish will have their hands full when they bat­tle Wisconsin on Wednesday and Friday. 
Love 
Suga 
Doub Cathe e, Kenneth 
"" I
t 
I 
I 

'• ~ page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
' 
' 
•NBA

•I ~ 
I I 
I Sprewell apologizes for his threats to Carlesimo 
trol his temper but that his career should not be ruined by one mis­take. 
"I know this conduct is not acceptable in society and 
professional sports. I accept responsibility for what I've done," he said the story, a point the NBA dis­

' I 

KNOW THIS CONDUCT IS putes. The case 
will be heard no NOT ACCEPTABLE IN sooner than Jan. SOCIETY AND PROFESSIONAL 4 by arbitrator SPORTS. I ACCEPT RESPON-John Feerick,
dean of SIBILITY FOR WHAT I'VE Fordham Law DONE.' School. 
Houston Rockets forward 
LATRELL SPREWELL Charles Barkley said Tuesday that some play­
port for a boycott," Barkley said. "I've talked with several players about it.... If we don't make a stand, it's going to be bad." 
Barkley declined to name the players he contacted. 
The attack not only rippled across the NBA and all of sports but sparked a national debate over sportsmanship, role mod­els and authority figures. 
Tellem and Billy Hunter, executive director of the National Basketball Players Association, said at the news conference that race was not a factor in the attack, although the agent had hinted over the weekend that he thought it may have played a role. 
Sprewell, who gave no details of the attack, had said Carlesimo provoked him with verbal abuse. Carlesimo, who has an intense, in-your-face coaching style, has had run-ins with other players and feuded with Rod Strickland while 
gize for choking and threaten­ing to kill him during practice 

NOTRE DAlVIE
Dec. 1. Sprewell said he didn't want to apologize publicly 

GOLF SJIOP
before talking to Carlesimo pri­vately. 
"I am a good person and I've never had any situation like this come up before," the 27-year­old Sprewell said. "I feel 10 years of hard work shouldn't be taken away for one mistake. My career didn't happen overnight and I don't feel it should be taken away overnight. 
"I know I will do a better job controlling my temper and watching what I do." 
Sprewell, a three-time All­



Star guard, was fired by the Warriors last Wednesday, cost­ing him the $25 million he was to be paid over the final three years of his four-year contract. The next day, the NBA sus­pended him for one year, the 


THE FINAL DART LEAGUE NIGHT! NCAA­STYLE SINGLE ELIMINATION TOURNEY 
Drunk Drivers Menudo 


STARTS AT 11:30 PM SHARP! 

Tlw's R1 !ht BLUE BAR SIDE \lri,•hl \\'~'ll Call it a Draw Uh-huh, yeah 
Da Bomb 
As always, $2.00 ALL-U-CAN-EAT Wings!!! 
10:00 CAMPUS BAND FESTIVAL 
THE 


coach of the Portland Trail season with the Warriors. Blazers. "There were times I reached 
Sprewell said his problems out and tried to rectify the situ­had been mounting with ation here at Golden State," he Carlesimo, who is in his first said. 


HOUR 
STUDY SPACE 
O'SHAG 
All rooms reserved for students studying for final exams: Thursday thru Saturday. 
DEBARTOLO 
24 hour study lounge is open. 
LAFORTUNE 
24 hour lounge always open. Basement & 1st floor open 24 hours Mon-Thur of finals week: 
LIBRARY 
Open 24 hours starting this Thur. 

Get the Facts. 
Check out the student government webpage for up-to­date Student Senate meeting minutes. 
www.nd.edu/,..,studegov 
student governm E'mail or call us•·• · 
nd.stugov.l@nd.edu or 631-7668 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
In his first public comments since attacking Golden State coach P.J. Carlesimo and losing his job, Latrell Sprewell said Tuesday he had to learn to con­longest nondrug suspension in league history. 

The players' union has filed grievances against the NBA and the Warriors, arguing the penalties were excessive. And Sprewell himself said he never got a chance to tell his side of 
during a news conference with five former teammates standing behind him and lawyer Johnnie Cochran Jr. and agent Arn Tellem at his side. 
Sprewell had called Carlesimo on Sunday to apolo­ers may boycott the NBA All­Star game or the World Championships in Greece if the league doesn't ease the punish­ment. 

"I think I'd have great sup­

Wednesday, December 10, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST ... 


SEASON'S 
GREE IItJ(;S 
fROM "IHE 
/'1EN A BOU I
\--------1 
CAM PUS. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

R!-=-+..::...1,:.;.~:..j..:...:.j..:..:..ii-=..J..=. ..;..,t.:,:.~B..;+~ 

12 Air hero 13 Word before Bouv1er 21 Turn-of-century British conflict 

c
PERI-l A.P 5 50METI-IlNG u 
,; 
IN Tl-\£. BINGO HELO. .. li 
OR. MA.Y()E C>UOGET 
52 Repeated role for Lorre 54 '"All That Jazz" director 58 Old Mideast 
inits. so See 20-Across 62 Bubble-headed 64 Wild romp 65 Denials 66 One of the 
Horae 67 Dance 
Instruction 68 Charlie, for one 69 Square dance 
partners 10 Green one 71 Blackjack 
option 
DOWN 
1 One in a black 
SUI! 

2 Sa1gon's foe 3 Garbo-like 4 Most of a tooth s Mayberry boy of 
TV 
61mprovise 7 Caustic a Saver's 
eventuality 9 Actor Baldwin 1 o Na v 1g a tors' Islands, today 

! 
"' 
l ~ A. SOUL. IT'S JU5T t>. SMALL ONE. 

28 Prominent 30 Hindu retreat 32 Cart away 34 Crime bosses 35 Whom Artemis 
loved 36 Like 60-Across 37 Pig's d1gs 41 Free 46 Applies holy oil 
to 53 Somewhat sour in a proof ss Schnoz 62 Archeological ss Saint Catherine's site 
home 63lt's west of G.B. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Aries: Discussions about finan­
cial ventures are meaningless if you do not consider the full effect of your actions. Look all plans -and the person pre­senting them-squarely in the eye. Caution pays off today. Taurus: Since everyone thinks your words are golden today, you might as well say some­thing worth hearing. You look and feel good. Mistakes seem impossible. Take this day and 
run with it. 
Gemini: Your road to success is 
littered with obstacles. 
Frustration is only natural, but 
find a way to use it productive­ly. Doing something in a differ­ent way will prodm;e different results. Cancer: An influential friend turns your day around. You may be offered a lot, but take only what you need. Excess in the face of generosity is the height of bad manners. Leo: Today you are reaching for the brass ring. The quickest way to the top is over the bod­ies of friends and co-workers. The longer way around may be more work, but at least you'll have someone there to help you celebrate. Virgo: This will be a happy, positive day. You re-learn some forgotten knowledge and are able to use it in a different way this time around. What appears obvious may not necessarily be so. 
Libra: Appreciate what you )lave and hope for what you 
lack. Of course, you are wel­come to try and change the sit­uation. Work from a position of harmony rather than one of discord. Scorpio: You may need to set other things aside in order to handle a relationship. joint finances and shared possessions speak louder than emotional bonds. Today's misunderstand­
ing could return to haunt you. Sagittarius: The opinions of others make them rigid and, in some cases, ridiculous. Do not stoop to someone else's level in a battle of wills. Smile politely and refuse to be manipulated by an unnecessary tantrum. Capricorn: Let yourself have a little fun today. Take real enjoyment in your work, or set it all aside and do nothing but play. A small break in the rou­tine leaves you feeling ener­gized and ready for more. Aquarius: Property ownership or large real estate purchases can be a sensitive subject today. The appearance of greed masks a deep insecurity. It's easy to feel possessive of your assets if not everyone is playing fairly. Pisces: Today you meet some­one who could turn into the best friend you'll ever have. Communication is clear and connections are easy. Creative spirits interact in a place of shared imagination. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

The holidays...a time to be with family and friends, eat a ton of good food and relax after an intense semester. If you choose to drink alcohol during the holiday season, keep in mind that someone dies in an alcohol related crash every 30 minutes ... 
DON'T BE A STATISTIC...IF YOU DRINK, DON'T DRIVE!!! 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
-

CA-REER COUNSELING 
I'O E>E GOOD AT f>-NY JOC> INVOLVING SIN. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Trawler's haul sMan·-­9 Like 30% of the 
world's landmass 14 Color deficient 15 Typewriter type 16 Round Tabler's weapon 17 Later 18 Cross letters 19 Host 
20 With 40-and 60-Across, a cautionary message 
22 Dove call 23 Children's song refrain • 24 Romantic mterlude 
26 "Right on, brother!" 29 Jim-dandy 31 Simpleton's utterance 33 Gaza force, for short 34lsn't bold 37 Quite a tale 38 Lease 39 Jackie's "0" 40 See 20-Across 42 Planning t1me 43lndy stop 44 Creative 45 On the docket 47 "Isn't that beautiful?" 48 What D1ck, Jane and Spot did 49 Literary-­so Kind of job 
., 

SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, December 10, 1997 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Irish to face the No. 4 Badgers in NCAA regionals 

By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
While most students are busy preparing for final exams and Christmas break, the members of Notre Dame's volleyball team have their eyes on advancing further in 
.--~-~..,..,.-:" N C A A Central Regional action, set to begin this weekend in Madison, Wis. · 
Howe v e r . Lee standing in the path of the Irish in the regional semifinals are the fourth-ranked Wisconsin Badgers, one of the most sur­prising teams in Division I vol­leyball this year. 
Currently 29-2 on the season, the Badgers advanced to the regional after posting a three­game win over Central Florida. Wisconsin was one of only eight teams to receive a bye in the Florida, Wisconsin used its height to dominate, hitting .313 percent and tallying 58 kills compared to a .17 4 hitting per­centage and 44 kills for the Golden Knights. Kelly Kennedy, a 6-4 middle blocker, tied for match-high honors with 15 kills while the Badgers' Amy Lee and Kate Fitzgerald each put down 11 kills. Kennedy led all blockers with eight stuffs, including one solo, as Wisconsin outblocked Central Florida, 11-5. 

"They have a few players which are key to their team," head coach Debbie Brown remarked about the Badgers. "Amy Lee is one of their 'go-to' people who's very effective. She took a lot of swings at us earlier in the season. Kennedy, the middle blocker, is also very important to their team." 
Notre Dame is making its fourth appearance in the NCAA regional, after upsetting No. 18 Arkansas on Saturday in four games, 9-15, 15-7, 15-10, 16­
14. The Irish are the only 
first round. 
unranked team They earned a to advance to share of the the Sweet 16, Big Ten con­and join No. 25 ference title Ohio State as after splitting the only team two matches to win both its against cur­first and sec­rent No.1 seed ond round Penn State. matches on the 
"I think we'll road. have a chance In the win to prepare this against the week and Razor backs, when we have the team was a chance to prepare, we do a led by senior hitters Angie real good job," Wisconsin head Harris and Jaimie Lee, who coach John Cook said about the each had 19 kills. Over the last upcoming match. "I know Notre five games, Lee has tallied 100 Dame will probably be pretty kills for the Irish. Sophomore motivated when they come in Mary Leffers scored 15 kills in here. When you get down to another fine performance, the final 16 teams in the NCAA while junior Lindsay Treadwell tournament. it's going to be had 13 kills on a team-best war ball every point." .321 hitting. 
In its win over Central Wisconsin and Notre Dame 

. The Observer/Joe Stark Angie Harris had 19 kills in the volleyball team's upset over the eighteenth-ranked Razorbacks. The Irish will need production like that from their key players if they hope to knock off No. 4 Wisconsin. 
faced each other early on in the rare if a team has gone through championship match of an entire season and not Shamrock Invitational on Aug. improved by much," Brown 
30. In that contest, the Badgers said. "We've analyzed our managed to defeat the Irish in match against Arkansas, four games, 10-15, 15-11, 4-15, though, because we feel that 11-15. Senior hitter Jaimie Lee that match will be what they made a surprise appearance will focus on when preparing midway through the second for us. So, we know what they will expect." 
The Central Regional's first match will be between No. 6 Florida and No. 11 Washington at 3 p.m. central time on Dec. 
13. Depending on the length of the match, the clash between the Irish and the Badgers will start approximately at 5 p.m. 


The Observer/Joe Stark 
Notre Dame faced Wisconsin back on Aug. 30 in the final of the Shamrock Classic, falling to the Badgers in four games. 
vs. LSU, Independence Bowl, December 28, 1997, Shreveport, La., 8 p.m. 
at Wisconsin, NCAA Regionals, Saturday, December 13, 5 p.m . 
game of the match, after returning directly from the World University Games in Sicily. 
"Our offense was not good at all that match," Brown com­mented. "[ think that if we improve our offense this week­end, and neutralize some of their key players, we should have a good chance." 
Over the space of the next nine days, Notre Dame would face the other two teams in the Central Region, Washington State and Florida. The week­end after the match against Wisconsin, WSU defeated the Irish in three games during the "Spikeoff Spokane," the site of this year's volleyball Final Four. Less than two days later, the squad dropped another match to the then-No. 2 Gators, by a sr;ore of 7-15, 15-10, 6-15, 3-15. 
However, the Irish are a much improved team, having won 12 of their last 14 match­es. After going a perfect 11-0 in conference play, Notre Dame claimed its third consecutive conference title by winning the Big East Tournament. But, Brown believes that Wisconsin will be improved as well. 
"I think it would be pretty 
l:' at Wisconsin, :7· ~ .. Tonight, 7 p.m. 
~ a) •Men put on shooting exhibition 
Men's Basketball, vs. Drexel, 
~ 
see page 20 ... 
Sunday, 2 p.m. 

• •Hockey team to face Wisconsin 
~

• 
Women's Basketball, see page 19 
vs. Purdue, Tonight, 7 p.m. 
~ 



.... 







