
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 113 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCil 
Fennell, Marchetti step into roles of leadership 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
In a transitional meeting last night, the Hall Presidents' Council elected its co-chairper­sons for the 1997-98 acade­mic year. Mark Fennell, cur­rently the co-president Keenan Hall, and Katie Marchetti, the 
this past year that revised the Student Union constitution. Under the new document, HPC and the Student Union Board will have a close interaction that has never 
.existed within student gov­ernment before. 
"As mem­bers of the executive cabi­net, in accor-

Katie Marchetti dance with the 
new constitu­

co-president of-----------­tion, HPC will 
Pasquerilla West definitely work Hall, were elected by the 1996-closely with the other members 97 members of the council. of the council, especially SUB," 
Fennell, a junior mechanical Fennell said. "In the past SUB engineering major, and and HPC have been distinct Marchetti, a junior arts and entities; now they will have letters major, were both mem­more interaction." bers of the reform committee Both Fennell and Marchetti 
stressed that their service on 

was drastically changed. 

"HPC is operating as more of a programming and activities body now," Fennell remarked. "We are passing on informa­tion to the student body." 
Marchetti also emphasized that although many hall presi­dents had some misgivings about the new role of HPC within the Student Union, HPC's place would in no way be diminished. 
"HPC is not losing any power, even with the reforms," she said. "In fact, HPC should have 
The Observer/ Katy Soby 
a more integrated role in stu­
Recent co-president-elect Mark Fennell discusses issues of concern to 
dent government next year."

the HPC with treasurer Lee Hambright. 

the reform committee would be beneficial in the transition period and also in making sure HPC's place in the new Student Union is defined. 
"We really want to stress communication with the stu-

Financial aid system receives recognition 
Because social activities are
dent body," Marchetti said. 
to be the main focus of HPC
"Our place in the executive next year, Fennell and
cabinet should help in this 
Marchetti relayed some of their area." 
ideas to the counciL Among
Fennell also stressed that, 
the proposed activities are awith the implementation of the new constitution, HPC's role 
see HPC/ page 4 
Group explores social issues in El Salvador 
By ALYSSON COOK 
News Writer 

El Salvador just recently ended a 12-year civil war in 1992. During the week of spring break, a grCI'Up of eight 

Saint Mary's College, went on a pilgrimage to El Salvador seek­ing hope and carrying with them a list of things to accom­plish. 
"We knew we could only take ourselves on the pilgrimage, so we didn't go down to El Salvador with the mindset that we could change things," said Sarah Gillen, a Saint Mary's participant on the pilgrimage. "This was part of my prepara­tion, and I thought it would be a spiritual experience, but it was also a great f1ducational experience." 
The four participants from Saint Mary's included Sarah Gillen, the only student on the trip; Keith Egan, professor of religious studies and director of planning for the Center for Spirituality, Sister Betty 

By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Assistant News Editor 
On Friday, Notre Dame was named as one of nine winners in the Financial Aid Administrators Awards Program. Conducted by Sallie Mae, the nation's largest owner and servicer of educational loans. the award hon­ors colleges and universities that implement innovative programs that assist students in financial assistance areas, such as debt counseling and job placement. 


"We are honored to be acknowledged by one of our country's most prominent stu­dent loan organizations," said Joseph Russo, director of finan­cial aid at Notre Dame. "We are very proud of the national rep­utation we have earned for developing several model pro­grams related to student loan administration." 
Specifically, Notre Dame was recognized for its Alternative Student Loan Counseling Initiatives which provided first­time student borrowers with information about their loan 
see AID/ page 4 

The wife of a Notre Dame graduate student was hit by a slow-moving vehicle at the intersection of Holy Cross Drive and St. Joseph's Drive on the Notre Dame campus Monday night. 
Yulie Gordeyeva was crossing the intersection around 8:30 p.m. near the Notre Dame Fire Station and Planner Hall when she was hit by a westbound car turning left to go toward the library. 
Gordeyva suffered a leg injury from the acci­dent. She was transported by South Bend medics to St. Joseph's Medical Center, where she was treated and released. 
The driver, Steve Patterson, 34, was not cited in the incident. Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security, said that poor weather con­ditions may have prevented the driver from seeing the pedestrian. 
The weather around campus Monday night included rain and sleet. 
"I have always wanted to travel like this, and I encour­age everyone to take this opportunity if thay can," said Gillen. "I was the only student this time, but it was so excit­ing, and a real eye opener." 
Egan came up with the idea and was able to organize the unique pilgrimage through the CRISPAZ Board. The board, Christians for Peace in El Salvador, was started by Father Peter Ilinde, a friend of 
. Egan's, in order to bring peo­ple to El Salvador to better understand its social, political, cultural, and economical struc­
see TRIPI page 4 


-----------~-------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 26, 1997 
• iNSIDE COlUMN 
Bridging the gap 
Think back to when -~~~~~~~ 
you were in second grade. You were prob­ably eight or nine years old and almost as inno­cent as the day you were born. 
You probably didn't worry about much of 

anything -or if you Brandon Williams 
did, it was with the Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
childlike certitude 
that things would come out all right in the 
end. You're probably looking back with nos­
talgia. You may even be smiling. 
Now slowly raise the drawbridge to let 
imagination in. Imagine you are playing out­
side your house, still in second grade, with 
your mother and 18-month-old brother 
alongside. Imagine that as you are playing 
you see two automobiles role up -each 
moving towards the other at a snail-like 
pace. Now imagine time seeming to stop as 
the passenger in one car leans out the win­
dow with a nine millimeter while the passen­
ger in the oncoming car reveals a .357 
Magnum. Imagine your second-grade reac­
tion to the explosive noise of gunfire. 
Your innocence shatters and your mind 
stops all at once as you watch your 18­
month-old brother's life end in a bullet. 
Imagine the numbness in your ears as your 
mother's screams permeate your senses. She 
whom you have known only eight years but 
loved for an eternity, falls bleeding to the 
pavement as your childhood tumbles into 
your reality. 
This reality came inside the luminescent 
boundaries of the Golden Dome last 
Wednesday through one who used to walk 
beneath it-Ray Turner. He provided my 
CORE class with statistics, Indiana statistics, 
that would break even the coldest hearts. He 
showed us the drawings of second-grade 
American children that displayed murder, 
graveyards and even suicide. These are typi­
cal children except that they are going 
through a greater hell than all but the most 
embattled among us have experienced. I 
have a fifth-grade brother. His life has cer­
tainly not been some idyllic dream childhood. 
However, he is not doing drugs, he is not 
having sex, he is not being shot at, he is not 
suicidal, he does not go without food and he 
doesn't struggle to survive on streets marked 
with the names of a dead generation and for­
gotten by a country that keeps it anonymous. 
Author Helen Luke said that there is an 
"intensity of meaning which may be born 
from the heart of tragedy." Many would look 
at the situation described above and see no 
meaning, 0r if they saw any meaning at all it 
would be one of ultimate despair and hope­
lessness of life. Yet, Luke goes on in that 
same paragraph saying that to know the 
meaning of which she speaks is "to glimpse 
the joy of the end." How do we glimpse the 
joy of the end of this situation? 
We change it. We are a Catholic university 
that is present in a nation that bears a more 
than marginal heritage of Christianity. There 
is no reason for the reality of this second­
grader to go unchallenged. Ray Turner is 
making sure that it does not. There is no 
reason for the reality of this second grader to 
stand undefeated. We, the Notre Dame fami­
ly, the Church, America, must make sure that 
it does not. Ray Turner will be speaking at 
Zahm Hall sometime during the week of April 
14. 
I would encourage you all to be there. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAff 
News Graphics Allison Koenig Melissa Weber Matthew Loughran Sports Production 
Kathleen Lopez Brett Huelat Viewpoint Jamie Heisler Tara Churik 
Accent Lab Tech Joe Weiler Meghan Dooher Megan Ferstenfeld 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORW AT A GLANCE 
Protestors barricade Papua New Guinea's Parliament 
PORT MORESBY, Papua New Guinea opposition legislator, who led the 
Backed by scores of mutinous sol­nation to independence in 1975. diers, hundreds of protesters block­Somarc and Parliament Speaker aded Papua New Guinea's Rabbie Namaliu. another former prime Parliament on Tuesday, pressing for minister, promised protest leaders the ouster of the prime minister. they would try to have the motion 
While talks between legislators and reconsidered later Wednesday. a senior army officer eased what had A diplomat representing the been an angry confrontation, sol­Commonwealth of Britain and its for­diers and more than 1,000 civilians mer colonies tried to broker a compro­remained outside the legislative com­mise between politicians and the pound early Wednesday, forcing law­army, which would include moving up makers to spend the night inside. national elections now scheduled for 
Outraged by the failure of a parlia­June. mentary motion asking Prime "I have put to them also that the Minister Sir Julius Chan to step aside Papua New Guinea Defense Force during an inquiry into a foreign mer­must unequivocally reaffirm its dedi­cenary contract, soldiers initially cation to performing its constitutional blocked the exits to Parliament. duties," Commonwealth Secn~tary­Later, civilians blocked roads leading General Emeka Anyaoku told to the building's two entrances. Australian Broadcasting Corp. 
'Til sleep on a couch in my office," Chan's government hired the British said Sir Michael Somare, Papua New and South African mercenaries to Guinea's first prime minister, now an quash a 9-year-old rebellion. 

Former President Bush to make jump 
YUMA, Ariz. 

When George Bush bailed out of his bullet-torn torpedo bomber over the Pacific Ocean during World War II, he promised himself that someday he would make a parachute jump just for the fun of it. Nearly 53 years later, the opportunity has finally arrived. With the blessings of his wife, Barbara, the 72-year-old former president planned 


to fulfill that promise today by jumping from a civilian plane 12,500 feet over the Army Yuma Proving Ground. Bush, the only American president ever to parachute from an airplane, was ready-weather permitting-to free fall with two jump masters at his side, Army spokesman Doug Smith said Monday. The jump masters will hold a harness attached to Bush until his parachute deploys at 4,500 feet, Smith said. The National Weather Service forecast winds of 20:30 mph around jump time, which could postpone the jump. Bush and eight other parachutists -including three who will film the jump ­planned to land on the desert noor at the base where the Golden Knights, the Army precision parachuting team, train eight weeks a year. 
Dockworkers help police find drugs 
CHOWN POINT, Ind. 

Police credited alert trucking company dockworkers with the discovery of 900 pounds of marijuana hidden inside a shipment of Mexican porcelain figures. Puzzled by boxes that seemed too heavy, the dockworkers called police, who ultimately arrested three men in East Chicago. "The whole thing really started with them," said police chief Rick Crafton in Sauk Village, Ill., where police started tracking the shipment. The boxes were shipped from Laredo, Texas, to Sauk Village, arriving Friday at Hoadway Express Inc.'s shipping terminal, where workers became suspicious as they unloaded the boxes. They called police, whose specially trained dogs signalled the presence of drugs inside the boxes marked for shipment to an East Chicago, Ind., address. Inside the boxes, police found more than 900 pounds of marijuana with a street value of about $1 million molded into bricks and wrapped in black plastic garbage bags smeared with axle grease. "It's part of a major pipeline from Texas to Chicago," Lake County Sheriff John Buncich said Monday at a news conference. 
• 

SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWemhcr* forecast for daytime conditions and high tern eratures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 26. 
/ 
r/········.··················-­Wednesday @, ',34 Thursday 41
~ Friday ~ 
58 
FRONTS: 

""T""T"" ..........._ ~
Saturd~y ci£1 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1997 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 
Sun~ay 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
....-r:. ~ ', 
VIa Associated Press 

Atlanta 69 56 Denver 73 28 Minneapolis 49 
33 Baltimore 59 47 Houston 67 52 Norfolk, VA 66 59
~,~,~~~Q{)~u 
Boston 52 39 Garden Grove 64 45 Philadelphia 56 
44 
Showers T-storms Rain Aurries Snow fee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 52 29 Little Silver, NJ 61 45 Phoenix 81 
56 
Via Associated Press Graph/CSNet 

Cincinnati 54 36 Memphis 80 65 St. Louis 59 
36 
Man dismembers neighbor, kills self 
PITTSBURGH 
A woman who feuded with her next-door neighbor over his dilapidated house was found dismembered in the home's basement Tuesday. Her neighbor hanged himself with his belt in a police van. Police were called to the home of Ann Hoover when she didn't show up at a hearing for Roy Kirk, who was appealing fines for the vacant, condemned row house he owned next to Ms. Hoover's home. When they couldn't find her, a neighbor suggested they look in Kirk's house. They found Kirk and put him in the van, then discovered Ms. Hoover's dis­membered body in the basement. Ms. Hoover's limbs had been severed and wrapped, apparently for disposal, and her torso was cut across the middle, said eoroner Cyril Wecht. She might have been strangled first with an extension cord found around her neck, he said. Kirk was shackled and his hands were cuffed behind his back in the van, yet he still managed to remove his belt, loop it around the grating and hang himself during the 12­minute ride to the police station, said Police Cmdr. Bon Freeman. Officers were unable to revive him."Here was a man that was bent on taking his own life," Freeman said. "Unfortunately he was able to do something that he wanted to do." 
Private plane hits truck at La Guardia 
NEWYOHK 
A private plane landing at La Guardia Airport smashed into a maintenance truck on the runway early today, sending two workers sprinting for cover as it set down without one of its wheels. No one was hurt, but the plane was leaking fuel, said Richard Petillo, a spokesman for the Port Authority police. Foam was put over the fuel to keep it from catching fire. The four people on the plane exited safely. The accident shortly after 5 a.m. closed the airport for nearly two hours, and delays after operations resumed were expected to lengthen as the day wore on, said spokesman Bill Cahill of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the airfield. A fed­eral investigator was at the scene. The plane, a Gulfstream II owned by a company called Treasure Solution, was arriving from Allentown, Pa., on runway 13-31. It had two passengers and two crew members. Asked whether the plane and the truck had been cleared to be on the same runway at the same time, Cahill said: "That's what the National Transportation Safetv Board will determine." · 
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND student organizes diversity celebration 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE News Writer 
What started as a passing idea and then a sensationalized media story became reality last summer for Notre Dame fresh­man Eric Mason. 
It began with the Ku Klux Klan. When Mason heard that the white supremacist group was planning to hold a demon­stration in his hometown of Portage, Ind., he became con­cerned. Mason and his friend Mike Krueger, then high school seniors, went to the mayor's office to make sure that the KKK actually had permission to demonstrate. 
"When we found out that the KKK had the right to demon­strate, we walked outside and 

there were news people every­
Eric Mason 

where;" Mason said. "My pic­ture ended up on the front page -----------­with an article (about) my plans The diversity rally was held to orchestrate a 'pro-diversity' on May 21, 1996, in Portage. rally. The whole thing was One thousand people attended, blown out of proportion." while only 87 met for the KKK 
But what began as a mistake rally across town. soon escalated into actual plans Mason emphasized that the br a sort of "diversity celebra-event was not a demonstration tion" when various Indiana to denounce the KKK. organizations began to contact "We were celebrating diversi­Mason with offers of donations ty," Mason said. "We stood and support. together on a common issue." 
"When we started talking Mason and Krueger have about our plans, we received a since received several awards great deal of support," he said. from organizations in the state "We wanted to get the whole of Indiana, the most recent of community involved, bringing which will be presented by the the religious, political and social Indiana House . of dimensions together. Representatives on April 1. 
"We generated involvement "It was the entire community from the whole community: that did this, not just the indi­Jewish, Catholic and vidual. The entire community Protestant," Mason said. "It deserves to be awarded," Mason was not exclusive in an wa . " said. 
Migrarits offer unique break 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Assistant News Editor 
Over spring break, a group of 22 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students packed into two vans and travelled to Florida. But they were not heading for Daytona, Fort Myers or Disney World. 
I?stead, they were _aiming for Immokalee, an unmcorporated town in the southwest part of the state. A town whose economy is based solely on migrant workers and the harvest of oranges and tomatoes, Immokalee boasts no beach, no bars and none of the scenes typical of a college spring break experience. 
"I was looking for something a little bit more meaningful," senior Ryan O'Neill said. "I've done the typical spring break before, and this time I wanted to be able to take something out of the break beyond a week of drinking." 
An "alternative spring break," the Migrant Experiences Seminar is a one-credit option for st~dents, similar in format to the Appalachia tnps to Kentucky and West Virginia. 
According to junior Andrea Ray, the week dif­fered from her experience on Appalachia semi­nars because students stayed with families by themselves and experienced greater cultural dif­ferences in the language and lifestyle of 
Immokalee. Photo 1 

In addition, students on the migrant seminar 
were provided with a variety of options for ser­vice. These included spending a day in the shoes of a migrant worker by working in the fields picking oranges, or by working in various branches of the Immokalee support system for the families of the town. 
That support system includes a soup kitchen and social services center based out of the local Catholic church; a Friendship House; a homeless shelter; manual labor at non-profit housing; and experiential learning at the Isabel Collier Reed Medical Center, the Redlands Christian Migrant Association. 
"[Working at the medical center] gave me a new insight into an environment that was com-
No~re Dam~ student Omar Lucero picks oranges dunng a spnng break service project in Florida. 
"It completely exceeded my expectations in every capacity," senior Maria Joyce, a coordina­tor of the seminar, said. 
"All of a sudden, migrant workers have gone from theoretical ideas that we've read about in the newspaper or in books to human beings with whom we've shared experiences," said the sec­ond coordinator, Christine Raslavsky. 
Seminar participants were encouraged to focus on what they could take from the seminar spiri­tually and ideologically rather than what they could do for the community in a week. 
"To me, this seminar was about becoming awa~e of the social reality that we can complete­
pletely unlike my own," senior Liz Cuevas said. • ly miss here at Notre Dame," O'Neill said. "I really feel that you have to know a community "In the big picture, [th~ ~eminar] was about to be ab~e.to help them. Now I feel that I can bet-th_e truth behmd ~ommumtles and sharing love ter admimster health care when I return to com-with people, lettmg people into your life and munities such as these." sharing God with people," Ray said. 
CONGRATULATIONS~ 
Please warmlv welcome 
HUMPHREY BOHAN ANNETTE BRAWLEY MISSY BYERLY JULIE CARVER MACKENZIE COXE CINDY DUBELL CHRISTY FISHER LORA GREEN JEFF HULL 
TROY LEO ERIN LUM JAY MANNLE CATHY MCGINNIS AMY MCINTOSH SHARI NEMETH KRISTEN O'CONNOR PEDRO REYES BRENDA RIOS JOSHUA SIMS ANDREA SINCLAIR MELISSA WEBER NAYDA WHITE KIM YONKOF 
Into the Catholic Christian communitv! 
These members ofthe Notre Dame familv will receive the Sacraments ofInitiation or be received into .Tull Communion at the Easter Vigil Basilica ofthe Sacred }feart 

9:00p.m. Saturdav. March 29. 1997 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 26, 1997 

HPC 
continued from page 1 
second-semester retreat for hall presidents to keep momen­tum going, and the planning of a greater number of large­scale, campus-wide activities. 
"We also want a greater deal of communication within HPC itself," Fennell remarked. "If activities are called in ahead of time, it would make things run much smoother." 
Both Fennell and Marchetti are excited to be elected in the wake of so many governmental reforms. 
"Communication has been a. problem," Fennell said, "but that is not going to be the case anymore." 
This week's and next week's HPC meetings are important in helping the newly elected hall presidents understand their campus and governmental role. 
After next week's meeting, the new hall presidents as well as the new HPC co-chairs will formally acquire their new· positions. 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
rights and responibilities before they received their loans. As part of the progmm, a current undergraduate financial aid recipient devel­oped and presented an infor­mation session covering the financial aid process, the Stafford loan program, and student budgeting. 
"With nearly half of all col­lege stuents borrowing funds to help finance their educa­tions, we are pleased to recog­nize Notre Dame's efforts to improve and enhance financial aid services for its students," said Lydia Marshall, executive vice president of Sallie Mae. 
Financial aid offices of each of the award-winning institu­tions received $5,000. Of that award, $3,750 is to be used for need-based grants or to pay educational loans for deserving students and $1,250 is to be put toward financial aid training programs or the improvement of debt-counsel­ing programs. 
"We at Notre Dame are most fortunate to be able to work with some of the most respon­sible students in the nation," explained Russo. "Their high l.evels of success are a true indicator of the quality experi­ence we provide." 
That responsibility, mani­fested in the form of low default rates on student loans and high graduation rates, has contributed to the esteem with which the Notre Dame Office of Financial Aid is regarded. For example, Notre Dame stu­dents have an average default rate of between 1.4 and 1.5 percent compared to a nation­al average of approximately 
Trip 
continued from page 1 
tures. 
The group stayed in San Salvador, El Salvador's large and developed capital city. They visited with Generation XXI, a youth movement of men and women who gather. together several times a week, for a celebration of the Liturgy of the Word for the group. 
"This was a really nice cele­bration, and we prayed together, sang together, and by a group sharing of our life experiences, we better under­stood the different cultures," said Gillen. "We learned that we share many of the same problems but that it seems compounded in El Salvador because 70 percent of families are split, a result of many things including the war," she said. 
While in the city, the group met with the think tank FUNDE. This meeting was held in order to help the group better understand the eco­nomic situation in El Salvador. 
10 percent, which is down from 20 percent a few years ago. 
The combination of the responsible student body and the esteemed Office of Financial Aid has resulted in the exemption by the federal government of some of the regulatory burdens in the administration of federal dol­lars. Such exemptions have allowed the office to spend less time on administrative tasks and more on the devel­opment of several initiatives. 
"We worked with a major guarantor to standardize, sim­plify and make more efficient the student loan process and became a model for the nation in that area," said Russo. 
"Because [the University] has a national student body with 50 states represented every year, we found ourselves trying to process more than 50 different types of forms," he continued. 
That problem prompted the office to seek out creative ways to standardize the forms, policies, procedures and even­tually the software that would be involved iri processing. 
"We had a major effort that resulted in a standard form that is very simple," said Russo. 
At the time, that effort put the office five or six years ahead of most institutions in the nation. Currently, between 80 and 85 percent of undergraduates at the University benefit from that process. 
Johns Hopkins, Pepperdine and Brigham Young Universities were among the other winners of the award. Sallie Mae will share the award-winning initiatives of the various schools with other colleges and universities. 
"One of the most incredible parts of the pilgrimage was visiting the sights of the mar­tyrs realizing the lives they lead," Gillen said. 
During the week of the pil­grimage, the group was there for the 20th anniversary of the death of Father Rutillo, a friend of Archbishop Romero. 
The group went to Aquilarez for a celebration Mass and then walked the road to El Paisnal with hundreds of El Salvadorans along the same route that Father Rutillo took on the day he was murdered. 
The group also went to the the church where Archbishop Oscar Romero was killed 17 years ago on March 24. 
They visited his gravesite which reads, "No one has greater love than this, to lay one's life for one's friends, John 15:13." 
The group also visited the gravesites of some of the women killed with American Jean Donovan. 
"It was amazing to have these experiences because the spirits of the martyrs really live," said Gillen. 
Those on the Pilgrimage for 
____t, Helms collaborate 
Albright a ''greatlady" who 
world/' Helms s~id 
deserv  ··  ·  e country's  
billi  
Amei'Ica .···•· .......· ...  U!fd  the  

in intro­ducing Albright tO a hometown crowd she addressed. "Madeleine Albright, you are among friends tonight who admire. and. respect you. I guess yoiPalready detected that." · 
Albright· kissed his left cheek, and after she was fin­ished speaking he asked for another, pointing to his right cheek. She complied and then presented Helms with a T -shirt that read: "Someone atthe State Department Me." 
What kind of part-time job does it take to make full-time moneyt 
The Jordan kind. 
That's because at Jordan Motors, your income potential is unlimited. 
With a friendly, no-hassle dealership sales environment, the Jordan Group of Automotive Dealerships gives you the training and opportunity you need to succeed. 
So if you're a motivated, friendly, outgoing personality interested in fulfilling part-time employment, please call for an appointment. 
Brad Elam Jordan Mitsubishi 219.259.1981 ext. 260 We look forward to talking to you soon. 
E.O.E. -Drug Free Environment 
the Martyrs of El Salvador met women from the "Mothers in Community" who work to find the 8,000 people who have disappeared from El Salvador. 
"One of the women we met had a brother who was a third year law student disappear, and another woman's son was murdered and disappeared in 1993," said Egan. "These women have only found three people, yet they have put aside all of their bitterness to work for peace." 
The group also visited John Juliano, a native from New York who, in the 1980s rode his bike all the way to El Salvador. He and his wife and their little child live on a hill in Guarjila. 
The people of Guarjila have only had electricity for a few months, and Juliano is responsible for their radio sta­tion and the gym where the children can go to play or exercise. He is working on getting computers for the vil­lage. 
"John Juliano has pretty much given up everything in order to live his life serving the village of Guarjila, and he 
At a joint news. conference, Albright declared that she and the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committ~e were "developing a pretty good friendship." Then Helms, who has been blocking the chemical weapons treaty, said he's working with the Clinton administration so that it might be ratified before it goes into effect April 29. It would take effect with or without U.S. approval. 
"If they sit down and be realistic about it, there's cer­tainly a chance we'll g!lt a treaty," said Helms, who pre­viously has insisted on State Department and United Nations reform in exchange for the treaty. 
is such an inspiration," said Gillen. 
"The people of El Salvador live in basic Christian commu­nities, and they get together, live their faith, and make sur­vival possible through those communities," said Egan. 
The group went on the pil­grimage hoping to gain an understanding of what the political system is like now, and what Christian base com­munities were like. 
They also wanted to under­stand how women are treated, as they have historically been more oppressed than the poor. Another goal for the trip was to see what service opportuni­ties are available. 
"Our goals now that we are back are to try to keep the martyrs alive here in the U.S. by planting the seeds that they have planted," said Gillen. "We also want tci try to set up a scholarship fund for future trips." 
"We hope this initial visit will create a long-lasting rela­tionship with the women of Saint Mary's and the women of El Salvador," said Egan. 
~-­
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Prof speaks on Renaissance 

By JILLIAN PAGLIOCCA News Writer 
Speaking on the integrated roles of publisher, printer, writer and engraver in early.­book-making, Professor Francesco Sberlati focused on the profitable partnership of Anton Francesco Doni and Francesco Marcolini in 16th­century Italy. . 
Together, Sberlati said, this writer and printer team initiat­ed a new fashion for Italian printed books that "represent­ed an idea in itself of Renaissance work." 
Sberlati stressed the "assidu­ous effort" required of writers, designers, engravers and 
An Interdenominational Prayer Service 


"On the Road to Calvary" A Reflection on the Passion ofJesus Christ 
Tonight 7:30 p.n1. Badin Hall Chapel 
-(Z\MPUS
Please bring your Bible MINImY 
binders in producing a mar­ketable book at this time. "Doni and Marcolini," he said, "offer a good example of such cooper­ation." 
Sberlati's lecture, "A.F. Doni and the Late 16th-Century Editorial World," served as an introduction to his forthcoming edition of Doni's "Inferni." 
During a time when the func­tions of printers were often interchangeable with publish­ers and binders, and when printers were often primarily businessmen or scholars, Sberlati joked that Marcolini was the medieval version of a "multi-media printer." 
Sberlati, associate professor of Italian literature at the University of Bologna, is a multi-media man himself, visit­ing Notre Dame this semester through the Fulbright Visiting Scholars Program. He has pub­lished more than 30 articles in the field of Renaissance stud­ies, combining his expertise in the areas of Romance philology and printed-book history. He has previously been a fellow at the Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies in Florence, Italy. 
Of special interest to Sberlati are the illustrations that accompanied Renaissance text. They were a means of attract­ing buyers and creating a more participatory, direct experience between readers and the text. "By the 16th-century, the image had become an integral part of printed books," Sberlati said. 
The correlation between the text and the choice of illustra­tions was rarely appropriate, and sometimes ridiculous from a modern perspective. Instead of commissioning new engrav­ings for a new book, publishers often recycled engravings already used in other books to save money. Therefore, some books at this time period con­tain images that were initially printed in other European countries or even in other cen­turies. 
The printer's "mark" was another aesthetic device that completed the printed book package. In addition to its con­ventional placement at the book's beginning, the mark sometimes appeared at the end as a fitting close, or in the mid­dle as a chapter separator. The mark also appeared above doorways and on buildings so that customers would know where to buy them. 
Like modern day copyright laws, these marks provided printers with protection from having their books counterfeit­ed, the marks being difficult to· reproduce. 

East entrance and parking lot to close 
Special to The Observer parking lot east of Stepan 
Center. When construction is 
Beginning this week, the completed, faculty and staff 
east entrance and exit to the parking no longer will be per­
University will be relocated. In mitted in the student lot. 
addition, part of the B16 park­The east entrance and exit 
ing lot will be temporarily to the University, just off 
closed in order to complete Juniper Road near Stepan 
utility construction on campus. Center, and the south entrance 
Half of the B 16 lot near the to the B16 lot will close this 
East Gate will close today and Friday and reopen Friday, 
reopen in early April. April 4. A temporary entrance 
Additional parking for faculty and exit to campus will be 
and staff assigned to B 16 will opened on the driveway in 
be available in the B2 and C2 front of Stepan Center, and the 
lots east of the Hesburgh north entrance to B16 will 
Library and the D2 student remain open. 
MARCH  
.2I  CAPITAL RECORDING  ARTIST  
STIR  
PUSH DOWN fi TURN  
DARLAHOOD  
z8  GENE LOVES  
JEZEBEL  
~{219) 272-7979  

W I IC )D 
-~IDII~SD~S 
-c'cJm.ihg aoon' 
en&'--&4 ittcfi'ea 

Looks Contest ­
A  P  R  I  L  
4 II 18  SIMPLE SIMON rrom chicago P.S. DUMP YOUR BOYFRIEND DEAD LOCK VELCRO PYGMIES  
SATURDAYS  

The University of Notre Dame Department of Mus1c presents 
New Music at Notre Dame Festival 
Chamber Recital 
Monday 4 pm Annenberg Auditorium 
Lecture by guest composer Ingram Marshall Tuesday 4 pm Room 124 Crowley Hall 
Final Evening Gala Concert 
featuring premiere performances of works by guest composer Ingram Marshall, ' ND faculty Ethan Haimo &Paul Johnson, . and ND graduate student Kurt Erickson Z / 8 pm Annenberg Auditorium 
Monday, March 24 to Wednesday, March 26 
All events are free and open to the public. 

-

-~ ~-~------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 26, 1997 
• ISRAEL 
Panel faults engineer in crash 
Security cooperation 
By HENRY STERN The crash in Secaucus, N.J., Board member John Associated Press Writer injured 158 people. NTSB chair­Hammerschmidt asked why man Jim Hall said it could have DeCurtis kept operating a train
falters in Middle East 
WASHINGTON been even worse with 400 people with his eye problem. 
By HILARY APPELMAN Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 

A Palestinian security chief responded defiantly Tuesday to Israeli demands to crack down · on Islamic militants, saying cooperation with Israel on security issues depends on progress in peace talks. 
"Palestinian security cooper­ation was buried with the first bulldozer that went up on Jabal Abu Ghneim," said West Bank security chief Jibril Rajoub, using the Arab name for the hill where Israel is building a Jewish neighbor­hood in disputed east Jerusalem. 
Palestinians in the West Bank towns of Bethlehem and Hebron staged a sixth day of violent protests against the project Tuesday, with Israeli troops firing tear gas and rub­ber bullets at hundreds of stone-throwing Palestinians. 
Eight Palestinians were injured by rubber bullets in Bethlehem, and at least two Israeli soldiers were hurt. 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has accused Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat of giving the go-ahead to Islamic militants to carry out attacks against Israelis, and has demanded that Palestinians take steps to com­bat terrorism before peace agreements can go forward. 
Israeli and Palestinian secu­rity cooperation has been frozen at every level because of the breakdown in relations, including putting a halt to joint Israeli-Palestinian patrols in most West Bank cities. 
On Tuesday, Palestinian police refused to allow a dozen Jewish students to return to their seminary in the West Bank city of Nablus, saying it could not be coordinated with Israeli troops. 
Israeli-Palestinian peace­keeping had been one of the clear successes of the peace 
Each day, 8 people die 
due. to an organ donor shortage... April 1st -4th is 
Pasquerilla West Hall's 
Organ Donor Awareness Week 
North & South Dining Halls and LaFortune Student Center 5:00p.m. to 7:00 p.m. 
•Stop by to find out more information on how you can save the lives ofup to 50people. 
Organ Donor Cards Available 

3miles 1""""""'! Ramallah e. 
3km 

WEST BANK 
accords, with security officers on both sides building mutual trust and respect through their work together. 
Using their homegrown intel­ligence sources, Palestinian forces would arrest militants if they got word that a suicide bombing against Israel was in the works, and Palestinians and Israelis met regularly on security problems. 
Rajoub refused Netanyahu's demand to resume that coop­eration, saying Netanyahu's decision to build Jewish hous­ing in east Jerusalem was what sparked the crisis. 
"There will not be any secu­rity coordination as long as there is no political coordina­tion," Rajoub said. 
A diabetic engineer who hid an eye disease that made it hard to tell colors ran a red light and caused the 1996 crash of two New Jersey commuter trains that killed him and two others, a fed­eral safety panel ruled Tuesday. 
Engineer John DeCurtis could not tell he was running a stop signal, the National Transportation Safety Board said. 
DeCurtis, 59, accelerated his eastbound NJ Transit train just before a stop signal on Feb. 9, 1996. It rammed a westbound NJ Transit train, killing DeCurtis, the other train's engineer and a passenger. 
Senior Class Formal at Union Station April 18 Tickets available April 7th at LaFortune Info Desk 
Senior Retreat: April 19th-20th at the Geneva Ctr. Look for applications at Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns after Easter Break. 
Senior Week is Coming 
Sunday: Day at the Dunes Monday: Cedar Point Tuesday: Class Cruise Wednesday: Cubs Game Thursday: Last Trip to the Grotto 
And that's only the beginning... Senior Week Booklets will be available on April 21st. in LaFortune 
Any Questions call the Class Office at 1-511 7 
For the past 30 years, Holy Cross College has offered thousands of students the chance for a great education. But there's one thing we haven't been able to offer, aplace to stay on campus. 
Now we can. Starting with the 1997-98 academic year, 
Holy Cross will have a limited amount of residence hall space available. 
Atwo-year, transfer intent college with a strong liberal arts foundation, small classes and an intimate, personal setting, Holy Cross has helped put many students on the road to a successful college education. With our new resident facilities, we can serve our students even better. 
© Holy Cross College -1997 Web Site: http://home.navisoft.com!holycross 
aboard the two trains. 
A search of DeCurtis' company medical records turned up a pos­itive 1987 test for sugar in his urine, investigator Burt Simon told the board. Investigators learned from DeCurtis' personal physician that he had been treat­ed for diabetes for at least nine years. 
The diabetes led to the deterio­rating eye disease, which Simon said DeCurtis initially could com­pensate for with his 34 years' experience. 
"It became more difficult for the engineer to distinguish red from yellow signal lighL<>," Simon said. 
"His family said he hoped to work a few more years before retiring," Simon said. "We believe it may have been associ­ated with financial considera­tions." 
DeCurtis earned $70,000 a year as an engineer and could have been reduced to $40,000 in another position, or $25,000 if he retired on medical disability. 
DeCurtis' son, Mark, d.id not immediately return a call seeking comment. 
Diabetic retinopathy, which is distinct from color blindness because it is acquired, can only be slowed through surgery, said Dr. Mitch Garber. 
~HOLY ~CROSS 
Office of Admissions PO. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 (219) 239-8400 Fax (219) 233-7427 
E-Mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 


• 
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Reserve ups interest rates FBI arrests three in 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
two girls' kidnapping 
Associated Press Writer 
The Federal Reserve raised the interest· rate for federal funds Tuesday
WASHINGTON The Associated Press in the realm of speculation,"
in a move which may prevent higher inflation. 
The Federal Reserve nudged Martinolich said. "The girls
• Federal funds
interest rates higher Tuesday DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. may shed some light on that." for the first time in two years, A four-day nationwide search But an FBI document filed in hoping to stifle any threat of for two Michigan girls ended Michigan provides some details: rising inflation. Banks immedi­Tuesday after they were spotted Ronald Stafford was the girls' ately began raising the rates walking along a beachfront former baby sitter. On Friday, paid by millions of Americans. highway with three young men he provided a note to the school 
Analysts suggested the Fed's accused of taking them from transportation director asking quarter-point increase was not their school bus. that they be dropped off at a the end of the story, with two Officers moved in when the local apartment building. or three more boosts likely by group stopped at a gift shop, When driver Juniata Earl the end of the year to slow the and the men were arrested arrived at the apartment, the surprisingly strong economy. without a struggle. Jessica Hainer sisters refused to get off 
The central bank character­Hainer, 6, and Teresa Hainer, the bus. ized its increase as "a prudent 9, appeared unharmed at the She planned to take them 
1990 1992 1994 1996 1997
step" that would guard against · end of a 900-mile journey. back to the garage at the con­higher inflation and the risk of ~-----­"They're none the worse for clusion of her run but instead 
AP/Wm. J. Castello
recession. wear," said Joe Martinolich, dropped them off at a mobile­
But critics were unswayed, investors expressed relief that banks, including Republic of head of the FBI in Michigan. home park where Ronald charging that there is no infla­the central bank had carried New York and KeyCorp, fol­"It's a special Easter for all of Stafford and an accomplice tion to pre-empt and the cen­through on the numerous sig­lowed with similar rate us." were waiting. 
tral bank's credit tightening nals sent recently by Federal increases, making them effec­The girls -the older one in a "The girls were crying actually raised the risks of Reserve Chairman Alan tive on Wednesday. T -shirt and jeans, the younger because they did not want to go recession. Greenspan. The Dow finished The prime is used by many in a T -shirt and a red skirt -with the two men waiting for 
"In one fell swoop, the Fed the day down 29.08 at banks to peg rates for credit each clutched huge teddy bears them," the FBI affidavit said. has taken money out of the 6,876.17. cards, auto loans, home equity as they were escorted away by "Earl recognized one of the pockets of every family, small The reaction was more pro­loans and adjustable rate mort­agents for their flight home. white males as the girls' business and farm in nounced on the bond market, gages. In recent years it has "It's the happiest news we babysitter to whom she has America," said Sen. Tom where worries about more rate moved in step with changes in ever had," the girls' grand­dropped the children off in the Harkin, D-lowa, a frequent Fed increases down the road sent the Fed's funds rate. mother, Olivia Hainer, told a past." critic. prices down and the yield on The central bank had left the news conference in Kalamazoo, At the news conference with 
Added AFL-CIO union presi­Treasury's 30-year bond up to funds rate unchanged since Mich. the FBI, the girls' father, Jesse dent John J. Sweeney: "The 6.97 percent. Jan. 31, 1996, when it was cut Authorities filed federal kid­Hainer, seemed ready to Federal Reserve has sacrificed The central bank said it was a quarter-point to 5.25 per­napping charges against Ricky answer questions about the the economic interests of pushing its target for the feder­cent. Geer, 19, and two men who bus, but he was quickly silenced America's working families on al funds rate, the interest that The rate had not been know the girls' family -Lee and left the room. the basis of a hunch." banks charge each other, up to increased since Feb. 1, 1995, Stafford, who turns 18 next The FBI said it had only a few 
Financial markets, which had 5.5 percent from 5.25. It left its when it was pushed to 6 per­week, and Ronald Stafford, 21, details about the group's last reacted violently in 1994, the largely symbolic discount rate cent in effort to slow the econo­who spent three years in an few days of travel. The men last time the central bank unchanged. my enough to keep inflation adolescent sex-offender pro­were running out of money and launched a round of credit Bane One of Ohio and under control. gram. "committed petty crimes to feed tightening, were calmer this Citibank, the nation's second­That effort to engineer an The girls were abducted themselves," Martinolich said. time around. largest bank, were the first economic "soft landing" Friday after stepping off a The girls had been spotted in 
In fact, the Dow Jones indus­major banks to signal increases worked, and the current school bus in Galesburg, Mich., Florida as early as Sunday. And trial average actually was up in their prime lending rate, expansion entered its seventh a small town east of agents had felt since Monday 50 points a few minutes after pushing it up a quarter-point to year this month, third longest Kalamazoo. that they were "closing the 
the 2:14p.m. announcement as 8.5 percent. Other rp.ajor in U.S. history. As for a motive, "that is still ring" around the group. 

RUN-OFF ILICTIONI 
4RITOD4~! 
Vote for your class officers TOD.AY from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and 5-7 p.m. 
Vote in hall lobbies or in the Huddle 

------~----~·-·--~----------~-~---­
.... 

page 8 
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 
ea lio... 
This past any long­standing goa nts ofseveral new Student As we move 
Union, Seth, Me ent Government staffwould like to t an t e otre Dame students, faculty and community for their --support and involve­
• STUD\:::NT (~()VfRNMFN'f • 
ment In these exciting ana successful proJects. 
·­

Exe«:uli~e A«:ti~ilie§ 
• 
Created five new Student Government departments -Information Technology, Gender Relations, Financial Aid, Athletic Resources, and Diversity Council 

• 
Added 20 new staff members to Student Government. Total student staff involvement: about SO 

• 
Received.. largest budget in the history of ND Student Government from Student Senate -a 39% increase from last year • Instituted weeldy report system and Team Connection meetings 


Deparl.uenl§ 
Student Life: 
• 
Organized "students only" pep rally before the OSU game which over 1,500 students attended* 

• 
Co-Sponsored "Project Warmth," a campus-wide coat drive that collected over 1,500 coats 

• 
Organized a "welcome to the quad" picnic for I(eough and O'Neill halls serving over 500 students 

• 
Established a strategic relationship with the South Bend Center for the 


Homeless, meeting with them to create new programs for Notre Dame students and organizations. 
• 
Campus improvements such as increased lighting around campus, new signs, and new ATM in the Hesburgh library 

• 
Creation of SAFERIDE, a shuttle service for students on weekends running from off-campus locations back to campus* 


* denotesfirst time ever that Student Government has or;ganized such an event 

l 

• 
1 
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Opening Mass* 0-page report on 
·on, and placed The print costs) '96 final exams. 

owing students to fellow students 
• Renegotiated the football ticket exc ange r Notre Dame students, allowing 
them to exc~19~~:e,tl:li~,!?f li\~(.e~~~ fo1\,,\pft:~, ~~[ a¥")1z~,pEhome games 
• Created St~dent A~vi~:?TXJ£q.~Q~Jl [?f)vhf ~~h~~JI~ :pepartment for feedback 
on non-varsity athletic space, programs, and equipment as well as for the new Rolfs RecSports building 
• Created over 12,000 signs and a banner for Coach Holtz's last home game 
Gender Relations 
• Co-sponsored Gender Relations forum 
• Prepared 25th Anniversary ofWomen at ND survey, for over 5,000 alums 
.

• Sponsor of Co-Education weekend (March 1997) 
Financial Aid 
• Established working relationship with the Office ofFinancial Aid 
• Wrote and published Financial Aid Newsletter 
• Created Financial Aid library within the Student Government office 
• Working with Office ofFinancial Aid to train student financial aid counselors 
• Held seminar to help students with Financial Aid Forms 
Public Relations 
• 
Prepared press releases and ads for major Student Government events 

• 
Surveyed student body regarding effectiveness ofStudent Government at ND 


Counsel 
• 
Produced "Student Guide to Indiana Alcohol Laws" in cooperation with Office of Drug and Alcohol Education for all students • Served as peer counselors in Student Mfairs hearings 

• 
Surveyed peer institutions regarding alcohol and student rights policies 


Diversity Council 
• 
Organized Martin Luther I<ing Jr. Rally (attended by over 200 students) 

• 
Created "Diversity Council Advisory Group" , • Co-sponsored several ethnic events with different Notre Dame groups 


TJ.an~s for a great year, and Lest of lu~~ to the Griffin/Nass ad.uinistration! 
-~----~~ ----~-,.~-------~-­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, March 26, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
• Goo 'N liFE 
Suffering reminds us of cross which Jesus carried 
"There can be no resurrection with­the semester. Some try to ignore the out the cross." fact, possibly hoping in the secret 
While decidedly a Christian view in a recesses of their hearts that the world religious sense, this statement can be will end before finals week. It makes applied to almost every facet of life. more sense not to procrastinate, to put "Out of hard work comes success" is forth an effort and keep up with one's one interpretation. Another might be, studies. There may still be a stomach­"Suffering is good for the soul." full of stress as the test date approach­
es, but the overwhelming desperation may be avoided. 
Other burdens may weigh heavily on young shoulders. Parents may expect their offspring to achieve and achieve
Julie 

and achieve. The freedom to explore new forms of expression -parties, relationships, drinking, and so forth ­may conflict with upbringing that taught right from wrong. While it may be painful to make an erroneous deci­sion (the morning hangover, a dam­
And we all do suffer. Perhaps not aged friendship), it is possible to "rise" from cancer, asthma or even AIDS, but again, to learn from the mistake. there are events in each human A big part of this is faith. Jesus had being's life that cause pain. It might faith in the Father that His death be as major as a car accident or a would not be in vain. Since most of shattered marriage/relationship, or as the day to day suffering encountered minor as a broken television set when here is not life-threatening, it should we're ready to watch a favorite sitcom. be easier to nurture this kind of faith. Any such occurrence propels us No matter what happens, there is a through the emotions of annoyance, change to learn, to grow, to become a anger, disappointment, defeat. better person. 
We don't have to be defeated, The other part is love. If we are though. Christ wasn't. When all willing to "live and learn," it means seemed bleakest, He was labeled a that others should be allowed to do the failure and unjustly put to death. He same. We may not agree with their rose from the dead, however, giving us choices, their methods or their atti­the ultimate hope: there is more to tudes, but God created each one of us life than just "life." as individuals, and we all travel 
Christians are urged· to "carry the unique paths through life. cross." The British might put it "keep­All in all, the "cross" is not that bad, ing a stiff upper lip." There are if we remember that we all have the numerous ways to express the ideal chance to "rise." that we should make the best of any situation, good or bad. Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the 
This could be applied to the forth­Freimann Life Science Center. Her col­coming exams. When registering for a umn appears every other Wednesday. course, students understand that their knowledge will be tested at the end of 
Ferraro 


• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Men's basketball team shows result of a determined spirit 
Dear Editor: 
To the NO bas­ketball team: First off, con­gratulations on an excellent season. Not many people felt that you had 
· much in you this year. Some had Notre Dame picked to finish last in the Big East. It seems that the stu­dents believed that report and didn't turn out to support the team as well as last year (I am one of those guilty students). 
Maybe everyone should take a momentBut what the students did or didn't do is and think about what happened this yearnot important. The Notre Dame men's and how special it really was.
basketball team is what is important To the seniors, congratulations on an
today, after what could be considered one excellent way to end your career underof the biggest and brightest stretches.for the Dome. To the underclassmen, go outthe men's program since 1992 and the there and kick some butt next year andNIT final against Georgetown. You made 
continue what was started this year.
us proud on Thursday. The outcome 
From the entire student body (who actual­wasn't what you would have liked, but at ly care about this), especially the seniors,least you all made it to that point. 
thank you for providing some wonderful
The athletic department didn't even 
memories and hopefully the opportunitythink that this was possible -the Horne to say, "Hey, I was there when Notreand Garden Show debacle is a perfect Dame began its climb back to basketballexample. You never quit. No matter how greatness." It may be a dream, but it's
big a task stood in front of you, you 
fun to dream a little -look what happensmoved forward with determination and when you believe in those dreams. Wethe belief that no one could stop you. 
just witnessed it. 

Something more important than being a WARREN JUNIUM 
determined team was that you acted with 
Senior
class and epitomized the Notre Dame 
Sorin College 
spirit in your victories and your defeats. 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor ..................................Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institmion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediror, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Edicor, Photo Edicor, and Associate News Edicor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63I-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Sysrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• DOONESBURY 
NOTHIA6!3PEC!At... NOT 
JlJ£TCH/3CKJNGIN ReAUY. ANYTHING NW Hat/AIJOtJT 
IU/7H YOU? YOU? 
GARRY TRUDEAU  
IV~t-t, a/13'~ !iAOALQTCF RAIN. fT!i Bt3CNA~ Mff5PR!N6­"'  SAMI3H&/?&. ld&HAV!3N'T 5eeN7H& 5UNIN .4(3.$... f  

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
• 
"Aguilty conscience is 
the mother of inven­
tion." 
-Carolyn Wells 

r-----------------------------~----~--------~--~-~~-=----------------------------------~---.~._________r-__·----~---.~-~~----~--~-------­
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 page 11 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Employable skills and liberal education often in opposition 
Dear Editor: 
Although I always enjoy Chris Kratovil's well-reasoned and well-written columns and have paid close notice to the broad­ening of his mind since his days as a Buckley disciple, I believe he has missed the point entirely in his March 24 essay ("Arts and Letters students ask 'What now?' "1. 
The problem with higher education cer­tainly does not lie in the idea that those who possess a liberal education lack employable skills, but to the contrary ­those who possess employable skills lack a liberal education. A quick perusal of the Observer will certainly demonstrate serious cultural, political, logical and lin­guistic ignorance. Freshmen are very often not taught to write a decent English sentence, and six hours of philosophy apparently does very little in developing 
• AWAKENINGS 
any sort of philosophic vision of the world. 
Arts and Letters students do not lack employable skills; rather, they choose not to enter America's corporate culture. The investment banks interview all majors, but, not surprisingly, my fellow scholars in the liberating arts have a difficult time taking Goldman Sachs seriously after a senior seminar on Kafka's Trial. And Chris, can you blame them? Anyone who feels connected with Plato's cave allegory, or has been enraptured with Beethoven's ninth, has very little use for the systemat­ic de-souling of the human being that cor­porate America is eager to bring about. 
That is precisely why Notre Dame offers less and less of a liberal education to it undergraduates (see changes in Freshman Seminar); it is in bed with cor­porate America, and it realizes that the only defense against corporate America's assault on the human spirit may be a liberal education. Notre Dame is systematically disarming its undergraduates against that corporate assault, lest it has a falling out with bedbuddy Arthur Andersen, or alumni dollars fall short of the Midas quota. 
The real problem with higher education is more fundamental than liberal education's lack of employable skills that Chris Kratovil describes. 
lem rests in corporate America's subjuga­tion of all segments of American, indeed, world society: family, government, uni­versities ... We are all at the mercy of 

The real prob­

Student Affairs' efficiency called into question 
In February 1994, a 12-member eval­uation team visited Notre Dame on behalf of the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools to reaccredit the University, a process that takes place every 10 years. The report found the University to be praiseworthy in many respects, and deservedly so. 
J.P. Cooney 


However, it was moderately critical of the Office of Student Affairs. 
The NCA report reads that "the Office of Student Affairs does not seem to be regarded as a source of help and sup­port for students. This may be due, in part, to the student discipline function being performed from within Student Affairs. or it may have unrelated causes. Student leaders and student staff (resi­dent assistants) expressed a view that the Office of Student Affairs is regarded as an authoritarian and legalistic place where judgments are made without explanation and requests and proposals are routinely denied without rationale. This student perception may be inaccu­rate, but the fact that it is held and that students feel as though their voices are not heard is something that the University may wish to address," (p. 232). 
An experience which I have had with Student Affairs over the past six weeks has proven, to my dismay, that this stu­dent perception is indeed accurate. I believe my experience shows that this is an office which has serious problems that must immediately be tended to. 
On Friday, Feb. 7, I went to the Office of Student Affairs to request a copy of a videotape that the office made of the Jan. 22 lecture of Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, the auxiliary bishop of Detroit. Gumbleton's lecture was enti­tled "Homophobia: The Christian Perspective." In his presentation, Bishop Gumbleton heavily criticized the University's non-recognition of GLND/SMC and expressed shock when he learned that the University excluded sexual orientation from its statement of non-discrimination. Furthermore, he stated that the justification for such poli­cies stemmed from an incorrect inter­pretation of Catholic teaching. Needless to say, the event proved embarrassing for Notre Dame and the Office of Student Affairs. I wanted a copy of the video­tape to supplement research I was doing on the non-discrimination clause for a column which eventually appeared in The Observer on Feb. 19. 
On that Friday Professor Patricia 
O'Hara's secretary informed me that Ann Firth, the assistant to the vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, would handle my request. Ms. Firth only works in the office on Tuesdays and Thursdays, how­ever, and it was recommended that I return then. I returned that Tuesday on two separate occasions -at which nei­ther time was Ms. Firth available to see me. I left a detailed note with Professor O'Hara's secretary, stating my request and informing her it was for a column for The Observer due the following Monday. I left both my phone number and e-mail address to facilitate as quick a response as possible. 
As of Thursday, I had received no return phone call or e-mail. I thus went back to Student Affairs to check the progress of my request. Ms. Firth, how­ever, did not come into the office that day, and Professor O'Hara's secretary was not sure what steps had been taken to release the tape to me. She instruct­ed me to return on Friday, for she would be in contact with Ms. Firth that after­noon. 
I went back to Student Affairs the next day, Friday, Feb. 14, and learned two startling facts from Professor O'Hara's secretary. The first was that apparently Bishop Gumbleton had to grant the University permission to release the tape to me. Secondly, Ms. Firth claimed to have left me a message on Tuesday, Feb. 11, making me aware of this. I promptly made the secretary aware that no such message was ever taken by my roommates (which I confirmed that evening) or appeared on my voice-mail. I also made it clear that I wanted Ms. Firth to pursue obtaining the permission from Bishop Gumbleton. I asked Professor O'Hara's secretary if there were any formalities I needed to go through. She told me no and that the request was being carried out by Ms. Firth. 
The handling of my request in that one week period frustrated me. I could not understand why it took the Office of Student Affairs a full week to inform me that Bishop Gumbleton had to approve the release of the tape to me. It led me to ask a couple of questions. First, if that is standard policy, why did Professor O'Hara's secretary not know about it in the first place? Second, if Bishop Gumbleton never meant the tape to be released publicly, why would he have allowed Student Affairs to video­tape it in the first place? And thirdly, if the contents of the tape did not reflect negatively upon the University, would Student Affairs have immediately released it to me? 
Regardless of the answers to my ques­tions, I knew one thing for sure ­Student Affairs had -failed to suitably address my needs. I needed that tape for my column, and gave them ample time to furnish it. However Student Affairs' failure to communicate to me the supposed regulations for release of the tape prevented me from being able to get it. Had I known from the begin­ning that I needed Bishop Gumbleton's permission, I would have obtained it myself in enough time to get the tape for my column. 
Since it was too late to get the tape for my column, and I was told that Ms. Firth would obtain Bishop Gumbleton's per­mission and provide me with the tape, I 
T
he student body of Notre Dame deserves better than this from our Office of Student Affairs. We deserve having our needs fully addressed; we deserve quali­ty, efficiency, and honesty in services. 
decided not to contact him myself. continued, however, to call and drop-in to Student Affairs to reiterate my request and check its progress. Since my first appearance in Student Affairs on Friday, Feb. 7, I have gone there on more than eight separate occasions, and left more than five telephone messages. Ms. Firth returned just two of my phone calls. One of them, received the week before spring break, a full month after my initial inquiry, stated only that "your request is being processed." 
When a faculty member who also hap­pened to be trying to get a copy of the tape and knew of a second student who was pursuing same, learned of my trou­bles, he informed Faculty Senate Chairperson Father Richard McBrien. Father McBrien contacted Bishop Gumbleton on behalf of the Faculty Senate in the first week of March to solicit permission for release of the tape. Bishop Gumbleton informed Father McBrien that he had never once been contacted by Ms. Firth or anyone in the Office of Student Affairs regarding the release of the tape. Bishop Gumbleton thus wrote a letter to Ms. Firth, asking her to please release the tape and informing her that it was his under­standing that the purpose of taping his lecture was so that it could be viewed by students and faculty after the fact. 
0n Thursday, March 20, I called Ms. Firth again. I was told ·by her secretary that she was in the office and would call me back as soon as she was finished with the call she was on at the time. After two hours had passed, and I had received no call, I decided to go to Student Affairs. Ms. Firth was not able to speak with me. Finally, however, after six weeks of phone calls and drop­ins, I was offered an appointment with her. 
I met with Ms. Firth yesterday morn­ing at 10 a.m., at which time I was pro­vided with a copy of the videotape. Ms. Firth and I spoke at length about the request process and the reason that it took some six weeks to furnish the tape to me. She told me that Bishop Gumbleton was difficult to contact and that the office was extremely busy with other matters. Ms. Firth was upset with my persistency, stating that there was no reason for me or anyone else not to trust Student Affairs to carry out the request. In the end-all-be-aU, six weeks is not that long for such a request, she told me. 
My conversation with Ms. Firth did lit­tle to comfort me. Why is it that Student Affairs could not track down Bishop Gumbleton, while it took Father McBrien just a single phone call? (I pur­sued Ms. Firth on this question, but she would not speak about her correspon­dences with the bishop, citing confiden­tiality as the reason.) Additionally, if requests like these generally take so long, why did Ms. Firth not inform me of this in the first place? 
Regardless of the reason for the delay in providing the tape, be it for bureau­cratic reasons (as Ms. Firth asserts), or some other reason, the actions of Student Affairs are not acceptable. The office failed to keep me abreast of my request, leaving me entirely in the dark as to what was going on. They left me no choice but to be persistent until I finally got the tape. Is this any way to run the Office of Student Affairs? Is it not the job of Student Affairs to serve students in a timely and efficacfous manner? 
Ms. Firth continued to ask me during our meeting, "Why don't you trust us?" I told her that this very experience is why. The student body of Notre Dame deserves better than this from our Office of Student Affairs. We deserve having our needs fully addressed; we deserve quality, efficiency and honesty in ser­vices. 
The time has come for Student Affairs to submit to a student-led audit of its services and jurisdiction. If the office is really interested in improving its rela­tionship with the student body, and if it has nothing to hide, they should be more than willing to do this. Student Affairs should be in the business of serving stu­dents. What better way to assure this than by Jetting students evaluate the office and make recommendations for improvement? 
I do not hold Ann Firth individually responsible for the poor services provid­ed to me and others with regard to the videotape. I do, however, hold the Office of Student Affairs fully accountable for its unprofessional handling of this situa­tion. I think it is time for Student Affairs to reexamine what exactly its purpose on this campus is, and start serving rather than hindering the Notre Dame student body. Notre Dame students demand and deserve better. 
J.P.Cooney is a sophomore economics and government major. He can be reached at Cooney.6@nd.edu 
;ACCENT
page 12 Wednes"day, March 26, 1997 
• ACCENT ASKS 
•

What IS fantastic idea for a wedding? 

"At a Roller-derby." 
Brian Tomcik Sophomore, Keenan 


"In front of Cinderella's cas­tle at Disney World." 
Kara Handley Freshman, Breen-Phi//ips 


"All attendees must be nude, and at a quiet, isolated beach in Southern California." 
Mike Early Freshman, Fisher 

"While skiing down a moun­tain." 
Andrea Rohrs Junior, Farley 


"At Wrigley Field, with Harry Carey as my best man." 
Jason Moskowitz Sophomore, Flanner 

"My wedding dinner will ·consist solely of Lucky Charms." 

Julie Lynk Freshman, Cavanaugh 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 





the other shore of Saint Mary's lake in 6 :W~~~e tbe.Notrl:) Dame campus br ,in an area several hundred yar · west of $acred Heart Church's main (lntranc(l,;~:l:iTh~ .mission was named as, Ste-Marie~des-LiiCs and so began 300 hundred years as. a religious site. 
To each student who attendsthi · University 1t means something diffe· ent. For some it may constitute spirits, 
ds, J:10pe. · or the early ~renclJ, 
crowded dorm for 18 men on the sec­ond):In 1847, yet another church was constructed. This one had two spires andi~ now affectionately referred to as 
· Sacred Heart I. By 1856, the church that started as the little chapel now ~?1;1s~d 23 clarion bells and a bass bell. 
wooden Sacred Heart I and now has a 
s ire that reaches 209 feet into the air. 
For over· 300 years now, there has 
been a religious tradition here at Notre 
Dame, though Notre Dame may not 
have even been here. 
As men and women walk down the aisleand promiset? love and honor .. each other, we can rest assured that the traditioD. will live on for hundreds 
By RYAN LYNCH Accent Movie Critic 
~ Ithink the imagination of a people can never be reduced to 
reality-this-is sometimes the tendency of our films," contends 
African director Jean-Pierre Bekolo. The imagination of 
African culture will be presented here at Notre Dame through the African Film Festival, which begins today and continues each suc­cessive Wednesday through April 30. Presented by the Notre Dame African Students' Association, the African Film Festival offers free admission and screenings start at 7 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. In addition, all films are followed by a panel dis­cussion. 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association has selected an outstanding representation of films to portray African culture and heritage. These films not only provide a first-hand look at Africa's developing cinematic brilliance, but they also introduce topics to be further explored in the panel discussions that follow each film. The following are previews of the movies to be shown in the African Film Festival, and are accompanied by the topics of their subsequent panel discussions. 
This evening, the festival is· showing "Quartier Mozart," a 1992 film that won an award at the Cannes Film Festival and is an audi­ence favorite at film festivals from New Delhi to New York. Directed by 26-year-old Jean-Pierre Bekolo, "Quartier Mozart" is the story of two days in the life of a working class neighborhood in Yaounde. Bekolo draws much of his inspiration from Spike Lee's book, "Inside Guerrilla Filmmaking." Critics recognize and savor this American influence as they see Bekolo "revealing a sensibility effortlessly crossing MTV and Hollywood with African folklore." "Quartier Mozart" offers an ideal introduction to the panel discus-
By MEGAN FERSTI 
Accent Copy Editor 
q 
we've hear• 
heard it a tho1 
meets girl at ( four years later thE the Grotto. In fact as many as 80 perc1 students will find tl before they graduat' then, that every yei hundreds of anxi01 couples flood tt phone lines of U Basilica of the Sacri Heart, hoping to wl a coveted spot on tl calendar for the marriage ceremony 
For many Not Dame and Sai Mary's students, t 


ACCENT
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 page 13 
C)'fte 'Bef[s are 

ftirrte 
NFELD has scheduled her wedding for 1998, coordinators informed them that they getting married at Sacred Heart con­would not be able to have a Mass, but tinues a family custom. Her parents rather had to limit their wedding to were married in the church 25 years under an hour. 
it once, we've ago and she herself was confirmed They also mentioned that another sand times. Boy there. "I come from a military family, couple was waiting in the vestibule 
;raffiti Dance and and ND is the only place I can really before they had even left the altar! y get engaged at call home," she said. Looking at this case, it's easy to see . as rumor has it, While each ceremony is unique, the how the Basilica gets its nickname as .nt of Notre Dame typical Basilica wedding includes a the "weekend wedding factory." So, if eir life-Icing mate Mass and is steeped in Notre Dame you're looking to have a long and 
It's no wonder, tradition. Some couples go so far as to elaborate service, you might investi­tr gate an alternate location. 
Still, most couples claim that the e 
IS 

advantages of a wedding at .the e 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart outweigh d 
any inconveniences. Most will also tell 
you that Basilica personnel are highly e 
n 
accomodating. As far as Rebecca ir 
Cannata is concerned, the staff has been extremely receptive to her needs. e 
"When they found out I might have nt 
problems with the military, they fixed 
me up with a date right away," she al 
Je 
stated. 1g 
Also, she advises students not to be 
deterred by the many rules and regu­ny 
1e 
lations the Basilica holds, such as to 
not being allowed to throw rice or lid 
birdseed. "The rules help the process, fi­
not hinder it," she argues. 1g 
Others confirm her beliefs. "I have n-
no complaints or regrets," says Schappell. "It was a really beautiful ln 
place to have our wedding." re 
If you're planning to vie for one of the infamous slots on the registry, you se must do so at least a year before your e it was a central choose blue or gold as one of their col­desired date. The Basilica of the r both families ors, and/or hire groups such as the Sacred Heart opens its books to Notre tives being from Glee Club to perform their music. Dame students and parishioners on om Illinois. Glee Club president Michael Lazarra the first Sunday in March for reserva­ouples also have a estimates they sing for about one or tions for the upcoming year. They ental reasons for two weddings each semester. They average four weddings each Saturday, 
ca. According to generally use selections from their excluding football weekends, holidays ose ceremony is traditional repertoire, including, on and Lent. The busiest wedding sea­1 of this year, get­occasion, the Alma Mater. son, according to a local florist, is e Dame has a spe­But, is a Basilica wedding really all October. nance and I both that it's cracked up to be? Some So when it finally comes time for grad and will be would argue that it's overrated and your big day, you might consider the ate degrees here. that the large quantity of weddings Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Who .cc for both of us." performed there each week make for knows? In a few years the chimes ' to the Basilica a rather impersonal and hurried cere­you hear ringing out across the quad :oots. For Notre mony. might be for you. ~ca Cannata, who According to one couple, Basilica 
~d 
;)~ 
lm Festival ExPlores 1 Cinematic Brilliance 
s. and Teenager's in the 1990s," through the director's own experience with the 1991 overthrow of , intern at the Counseling Center a Malian dictator. A panel discussion, "Wisdom and Political Power in Africa," follows the screening of "Guimba the Tyrant." 
al presents "Udju Azul di Yonta" The festival features "Aime Cesaire: Une Voix Pour L'Afrique" u Azul di Yonta" is director Flora ("Aime Cesaire: A Voice for Africa") on Wed., April 23. Euzhan leals with the nation of Guinea­Paley's 1994 film chronicles the life of Aime Cesaire in three parts, lependence. Hailed by The New beginning with the Cesaire's adolescence in colonial towns, and 
ion of post colonial African soci­culminating with international praise for Cesaire's central role as a .his 1991 film presents European prophet of the dangers of neo-colonialism. Danny Glover heralds pective. "Udju Azul di Yonta" is director Euzhan Paley's film; and "Aime Cesaire: Une Voix Pour 
n: "Africa in the Aftermath of L'Afrique" proves Paley deserving of his international acclaim. 
~ecause Cesaire i~ considered a "founding ancestor" of Diaspora ~pril 9, is "Le Grang Blanc de literature, a panel discussion entitled, "Africa and the Diaspora in aker Bassek ba Kobhio creates a the New Millennium," immediately follows. ! of the African Film Festival's The African Film Festival finishes on Wed., April 30, with gh the eyes of the African people Chinua Achebe's "Things Fall Apart." The Nigerian director pre­tlly myopic view of the West. sents a stern look at post-colonial Africa, and touches upon the ~ Lambarene" skillfully rewrites sensitive issues that drive the final panel discussion: "The e point of view of the colonized. Aftermath of the Encounter: Africa and the West." Albert Schweitzer, are cast in a The Notre Dame African Students' Association effectively brings 
ba Kobhio's film. Appropriately, an accurate and eye-opening cross-section of African films to the sian: "Colonialism Revisited: The Notre Dame community. All have received international acclaim for their commitment to establishing Africa as a culture rich in 
Film Festival delivers "Guimba intellectual and artistic genius -a genius which is regrettably lSt prestigious award in African overshadowed at times by the glitz, glamour, and sheer economic tr Sissoko, his 1995 film mirrors power of Hollywood. Issues concerning Africa's rise from the th its depiction of the tyrant's shadow of colonialism deserve attention and consideration, and the vnfall at the hands of his people. panel discussions that follow each screening provide such a forum. :et in the mythical city of Djenne, Each of these films, and Africa itself, echoes the closing line of 'a return to the continent's own Basek ba Kobhio's "LeGrand Blanc de Lambarene:" "All we can do 
A film of this nature also sheds is allow others to discover us, as we discover them." LIUm that is emerging in Zaire 
Up Yeur with a 
someday. This is my dream. Someday · a custody and property battle loved. I suppose the only way I first gettingmarrif(d." · sophomore, Morrissey Hall 
get married in a, ~econdary urch or the Uke. This is vedforthe etmar• . #gam ....,; unless ofdivol'ce, much like But, that's acompletely 
Padre, onlytook$600 to lure 

.=
college masses. Since "'~'!('"''~" undertones, (and every-I'm hoping that Ice will and religious reverence. s to be unf£rgettable. 
,::& 



v, 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, March 26, 1997 
•NBA 

Scoring output low Pacers end road losing streak 
Associated Press
for Spurs and Cavs 
TORONTO 
Effort almost eclipses low­scoring record 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 
The Spurs and Cavaliers al­most played the lowest-scoring game in NBA history Tuesday night, but there were six foul shots made in the final 20.3 seconds and San Antonio beat Cleveland 64-59. 
The combined total of 123 points tied the second-lowest mark in league history since the inception of the shot clock. 
The record-low of 119 points, set by Boston and Milwaukee in 1955, was tied with 20.3 re­maining when Terrell Brandon made two foul shots. It was eclisped with 18.9 seconds left when Cory Alexander made two foul shots to put the Spurs ahead 62-59. 
Cleveland's final total of 59 points tied the second-lowest in league history. The Milwaukee Hawks scored 57 in their 1955 game against the Celtics, and the total has been matched twice since then -last December by Orlando and in February, 1996, by the Philadelphia 76ers. 
The two teams combined for just 21 points in the fourth quarter, 11 by San Antonio and 10 by Cleveland, to break the record-low of 23 reached four times previously. 
The Spurs, despite missing their first 15 shots of the fourth quarter, snapped a five-game losing streak and completed a season sweep of the Cavs. 
Cleveland, which currently holds the Eastern Conference's eighth and final playoff spot, had its lead over Washington a trey by Carlos Rogers and give Indiana a 78-63 lead with 

9:46 to play. 

Mark Jackson had a triple­double, hitting the second of two foul shots with 3.5 seconds to play to give him 10 points to go along with 11 rebounds and 12 assists. 
Miller was on his long-range game in the third quarter, nail­ing three 3-pointers, including one with 3:42 left gave Indiana a 63-48 lead. 
In the first half, Doug Christie was called for a familiar foul that sent Miller to the line for three shots with 38.6 seconds left. Miller made all three shots for a 44-34 lead at the break. 
Christie, who was given a technical foul for arguing, was called for a similar foul on Miller late in a game at Indiana on Feb. 17. Miller made all three foul shots to give the Pacers a 105-102 victory, and Raptors coach Darrell Walker was so incensed at the call that he ran onto the court and spiked the ball. 
Walt Williams led the Raptors, losers of three straight, with 16 points. Marcus Camby had 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
Notes: The Pacers have won all seven of their games against Toronto since the Raptors en­tered the league. Indiana is one of three teams (Atlanta, New York) that the Raptors have yet to beat. ... The Raptors have played in a league-high 18 games decided by three points or less, going 7 -11.. .. After giv­ing up 100 or more points in six of their previous eight games, the Pacers allowed the Raptors just 84. 
cut to three games. Tyrone Hill led the Cavs with 16 points. 
Avery Johnson and Vernon Maxwell had 10 each for San Antonio. 
The Spurs did not make a field goal in the fourth quarter until a layup by Monty Williams with 2:58 left in the fourth gave them a 58-55 lead. Hill's layup pulled Cleveland to 58-57 with 2:08 remaining, and a layup by Williams gave San Antonio a 60-57 lead with 
1:20 left. 

After Alexander made his two free throws with 18.9 sec­onds left, Terrell Brandon tried a 3-pointer from the top of the key but missed. After a scram­ble for the ball, Alexander was fouled with 1.8 seconds left 
Rik Smits had 28 points and 12 rebounds and Heggie Miller scored 24 points Tuesday night to help the Indiana Pacers end an eight-.-------,-­game road I o s i n g streak with a 98-84 victory over the Toronto Raptors. 
sIll its. who was able to score almost at will from inside, reached 20 points for the seventh time in his last 10 games. 
Smits even hit from beyond the arc, making his second 3­pointer of the season to answer 
and added the final points from the line. 
flawks take corrrtnand in third 
San Antonio shot only 37.3 percent for the game and was 2-of-22 in the final period. Cleveland hit only 31.3 percent of its shots and was 3-of-17 in the fourth. 
The Spurs enjoyed the biggest lead by either team when Vinny Del Negro's jumper made it 46-40 with 
7:46 left in the third. 

Notes: Brandon returned to the lineup after missing four games with a bruised tailbone suffered March 14 against Portland ... Spurs point guard Avery Johnson was also back after missing six games. Johnson had surgery to drain an abscess in his throat March 
17. Until sitting out the Boston game March 14, Johnson had played in 378 straight games, the fifth-longest active streak in the league .... San Antonio's Dominique Wilkins has 26,378 points and needs 18 to pass John Havlicek for seventh on the NBA's career scoring list. 
Mutumbo and 
thlead ks to win 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

Steve Smith scored 27 points 
and Dikembe Mutombo added 
24 points and 12 rebounds as 
the Atlanta Hawks extended 
theirwinning streak to-five 
games by beating the Portland 
Trail Blazers 96-89 Tuesday 
night. 
The Hawks. who improved to 
31-4 at the Omni, took com­
mand after the Blazers forged 
a 49-49 tie on Rasheed 
Wallace's dunk with 9:13 left in the third quarter. 
'?Mutombo scored nine points Ai)ld Tyrone Corbin five during atf 20•5 run that gave the Hawks a 69·54 lead with 1:36 remaining in th~ quarter. Atlanta held a 71-61 lead ·heading to the fpQtthperiod and Portland didn't get close 
until a lato run. 
The Hawks went through a 
stretch making just four of 
eight free throws and Isaiah 
Rider, who led the Blazers 
with 22 points, banked in a 3­
pointer to cut the gap to 92-86 
with 1:15 remaining. 
But Atlanta ran down the . 
shot clock and Smith hit a 
jumper from the top of the key 
with 53 seconds to go to clinch 
the victory. Smith had five 3­
pointers. 

Portland has dropped two of three since an 11-game win· ning streak, but the Blazers still clinched a playoff berth when Sacramento lost Tuesday, night at Orlando. Portland will bE): making its NBA-best 15th consecutive postseason appearance. 
Atlanta, which clinched a playoff berth_ Sunday, is ·more concerned with moving up in the Eastern Conference stand· ings. The Hawks now trail Detroit by one game and New York by 1 1/2 games for the important third position, which would ensure not only home-court advantage but also would put off a potontial meet­ing against the Chicago Bulls until the conference finals. 
Notes: Atlanta has won five straight games against the Blazers, including a two-game sweep of the season series. Portland's last win over the Hawks came on Jan. 3, 1995. ... Darrin Hancock, who. has provided a defensive spark off the bench, was signed for the rest of the season by the Hawk.s.... The Blazers have outrebounded 52 of 71 oppo· nents this season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. 
ILOST & FOUND I 

,-_ LOST: String of pearls and a cross between Hesbusge Library and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Call Dolores at 1-5729 or 234-7287. 
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with 
my name written in gold on the 
cover. Extremely important infor­
mation inside. I really need it! 
Please call Tara at 4-1291 
LOST/STOLEN: computer disk with label "Marketing Club" plus some various papers. Possibly in Library on Wednesday 3/19. Please call Jen@ 243-9019 or 1-933D-very important! 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS

I~. 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
1-800-786-8373 
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­
MENT-Discover how workers can 
earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise 
Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­
mer in the Land Tour industry! Call 
Cruise Information Services: 800· 
276-5407 Ext. C55846 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Learn how students can earn up to $2,850/mo + benefits (room & board). Call Alaska Information Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841. 

FRIENDS OR SIBLINGS GRADUATING? 
WORK CATERING FOR GRADUATION! 
• 
FREE ROOM/BOARD 

• 
$6.75 PER HOUR 


• MAY 10-18 HOUSING DEADLINE 4/3/97 SIGN UP: M-FRI 10:00·5:00 CATERING EMPLOYMENT 
OFFICE SOH LOWER LEVEL 631-5449 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT· Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call (919)918-7767, ext. A154. 
CRUISE LINES HIRING-Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free, world travel (Europe, Caribbean, etc.). No exp. necessary. (919)918-7767, ext. C154. (Member, Better Business Bureau CARE Program.) 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Plus Forest, Beach Resorts, Ranches, Rafting Companies. Up to $12/hour. Nationwide openings. Call (919)918·7767, ext. R154. 
Summer Girl Needed -Chicago North Suburbs. Live in and help care for 3,5,1 0, and 14 year olds. Non-smoker with drivers license. Salary plus room and board. Interested person call 847-295· 3493. 
FOR RENT 

Near Campus Homes for 97-98 232-2595 2 Bdrm College Park Condo avail­able for summer sublet. Call 243-9357 
New 5 bedroom home, two bath, two car garage. Central air, dish­washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker, washer/dryer included. $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232-4527 or 683-5038. 
POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
5 BDRMS IN HOME-close to cam­pus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all utilities & kitchen privileges. $225/mo. 
232-2794 -Paul 
Beautiful, huge one-bedroom apart· ment overlooking pool at The Pointe downtown. Has everything, incl. washer & dryer. Sublet May 1­July 31 (or start a new lease). You keep my $200 deposit! 282-2212 or 631-7048. 
FOR SALE 
1986 Acura Integra -5 sp, A/C,. cass., sunroof. Good Shape $1900. 273-5930 
FREE Phone Card. No restrictions, Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 min. in the 
U.S. SASE to : Free Phone Card, PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN 46947 
Graduation tickets needed. Will pay$$. Please call Christian x1071 
I need extra grad tickets! Will pay $. Call Ethan, 4-1659. DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIVING THESE NO WINTERS? LLBean down coat for sale-great cond., men's S-this is the warmest coat you can find! will keep you warm on those walks to & from 02, 06, C1­great deal for $125! call Wendy @ 243 9430 
IBM Computer For Sale 
Includes: 
'Modem 
'Microsoft Office 
'3 1/2 and 5 1/4 Drives In Perfect Shape-Great for College Students! Call 273-9747 Price Negotiable. 
TICKETS 
NEED NO GRAD. TIX. PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME. 
BIG EAST LOYALTY 2-6 TIX IN SECTION 100 FOR CINCINNATI FINAL 4. 1-860-644-6794. 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219} 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 

SENIOR NAVY ROTC· Ex. Nuc. L T has a great deal on uniforms call for info 287-4609 
LOST 3/17! NO Class Ring Blue Stone Full name inside Reward. If found call Mark 243-9396 
MARSHALL ENOS: Has Baywatch called you yet to audition? We all know that you've got the bathing suit and the stuff to fill it! 
Come see DOUG MCKENNA of GEORGE AND THE FREEKS every Wednesday night at C. J.'s PUB ... 
elsie's promise wi!h special guests Tashi Station 
at Bridget's Wed. March 26 

BECK IN CONCERT with Atari Teenage Riot and the Roots Stepan, Apr. 8, 8 pm 
Student tickets only: 
$15 at the LaFun Info Desk 
3 pm, Wed, Mar. 26 
2 tix per ID, 4 I D's per person 
General Public $18 9 am, Thurs. Mar. 27 
Looking for ride to Chicago Mdwy on Mar. 27. Please call Shawn @ x1625 . 
EX NO STAFFER AND SPOUSE (RETIRED) WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS, NON-DRINKERS, NO PETS, REF­ERENCES. WRITE 135 LAKE­VIEW, MULBERRY FL 33860 OR PHONE (941)425-4404 ANYTIME. 
OPEN ADOPTION continuing contact with your child. visits,photographs,more. Tom & Tammy, South Bend. 
1-800-484-1607code:9883 
riiiiik-ola! just a few more days! 
Thank you, Saint Jude, for helping a college student. 
Tiff (aka A. Devil). 

Try not to fall off the ledge any­more, and I won't lay down on the sidewalk anymore! Next Friday is your birthday, baby! 
-Indian Princess 
p.s. I got here first, so request the first Jimmy Buffett... 
Keough Hall Singled Out 
If you want to date a 'Roo, call for 
an interview 
Keough Week 1997 
Interested? 
Call Steve at x0600 

I have been Tiger Woods 
The word of the day is "Dick Addis" 
John, simply put I miss you 
.. 
-

Wednesday, March 26, 1997 The Observer • Final Four page 15 
NCAA tournament last year. play. They should not have been this Kentucky is my pick to win
Strip
Tar 
by 
year, either. The Golden the NCAA tournament. I continued from page 24 Gophers have turned things believe that the Wildcats can around this year with a strong beat any team in the country Arizona. team stacked with seniors and except Wake Forest, who I had 
According to Coach Lute led by Bobby Jackson and Sam going to the Final Four after 
Olson, Bibby "has ice water Jacobson. I do not like this defeating Kentucky in the West 
running through his veins." team, and I am stunned that Regional final -with or with­
I'm no doctor, but I can tell they even made it this far. out Anderson. 
CHAPEL HILL, . that this freshman is very tal­Their victory over UCLA was Anderson's situation, howev­
North Carolina was . ented and composed and will impressive only in that they er, brings up a point about the ed to get to pose a problem for any team he were able to exploit the fact power of head coaches today in 1997. Only faces. Simon, Dickerson, and that Jelani McCoy was injured college basketball. Pitino, who supposed to Bibby are great scorers, but I by drawing enough fouls to seemingly had Anderson's best named Jerr don't see Arizona advancing to dupe the rest of the Bruins into interests in mind when he Rasheed Wa the title game because of its lax bad shooting and reticent made the decision not to let Mcinnis, not defense and erratic shooting. defense. The fact of the matter him play, still refused to let more starters Arizona will play North is that Minnesota has only one Anderson play when he wished point guard. Carolina, who are perhaps the real marquee player-Jackson to do so and, as evidenced by 
But With the NBA dt'affg~1tp only team that was hotter than -and he is not good enough to his play, had earned the right ting the team the l/lstt~vti UCLA going into the tourna­lead them to the final game. to do so. sons, the Tar Heels hea ment and have not lost since The one player who is good Clearly, this year will be Indianapolis this week wi~h January. They defeated enough to lead his team not remembered as a year when 
one of the program ·s y(ntpgest Louisville to take the East only to the final game but to the head coaches flexed their mus­Final Pour teams. ·· Region. UNC is led by Antawn tournament championship is cles against the wishes of and, 
Stackhouse, Wallace and Jamison, Vince Carter, Ed Cota, Kentucky's Ron Mercer. in some cases, at the expense Mcinnis would have all been and Serge Zwikker. Zwikker, Kentucky, who marched of their players. seniors on this 1997 team had the least talented of the quar­through the West Region Among other things, this year they stayed in school four tet, is the most interesting to unchallenged, is the most inter­will be remembered as the year years. However, Stackhouse watch, as he personifies Danish esting team in the tournament, that all of the seniors stayed and Wallace left for the pros basketball, evoking memories if not the most controversial. behind to lead their teams to after just two seasons and of Rik Smits -not necessarily The NCAA champions last year, the Final Four, but none of Mcinnis bolted last year, forc­a good thing. the Wildcats have been deci­them did. Jacque Vaughn of ing underclassmen such as One good thing about North mated by the NBA draft and a Kansas, Tim Duncan of Wake Antawn Jamison, Vince Carter Carolina, which gives them an knee injury to superstar Derek Forest, and Keith Van Horn of and Ed Cota into prominent advantage over every other Anderson. Utah all deferred millions of roles. remaining team except maybe The Anderson injury has dollars in the NBA for one more 
The growing pains for the Kentucky, is their coaching. been the source of the contro­year in college basketball, only Tar Heels (28-6) beganto Dean Smith, the grizzled vet­versy surrounding Kentucky. to see their teams succumb to show in early January, with eran who just surpassed Head coach Rick Pitino, the defeat before reaching criticism abounding across Adloph Rupp for career victory best coach in college basketball Indianapolis. campus, around town and totals, is a brilliant coach who today, denied Anderson's It will be remembered as the throughout the Atlantic Coast has made the Tar Heels into a request to play in the tourna­year that Kansas was destined Conference. tournament-tough team. This ment after he had been cleared to win it all, but could not even 
North Carolina was off to a team will go to the final game, by the team trainer. Pitino make it to the Elite Eight. It 
program-worst 0-3 league. but will fall just short of win­believes that.Anderson, who will be remembered as the year 
start. In the next game; at ning it all because any team would no doubt help a Wildcat that three number-one seeds 
home against North Carolina that has a player that evokes team that has turned to Allen advanced to the Final Four to 
State, the Tar Heels · memories of Rik Smits cannot Edwards and Cameron Mills make it one of the most 
nine points with 2: win the college basketball tour­when Mercer is triple-and competitive and exciting tour­
before rallying for a. nament. It's just not allowed. quadruple-teamed, would risk naments in a long time. It will 
-
point win. . ....•.......•. The team representing the injury and therefore his be remembered as the year "A little confidence came Midwest Region -Minnesota chances of being drafted high that Kentucky repeats as -was just not allowed in the in the NBA draft if he were to national champions. 

Student Tickets on Sale Now! 
Tennessee (27-10) 
StP.pfqrd (34-1) Fri. 9:00pm 
Fri. 7:00pm 
Notre Dame (31-6) 
OlllDominioh (33-1) 
Final Four Student Tickets in Cincinnati this ~riday and Sunday will be on sale while supplies last at the LaFortune .Information Desk and the Joyce Center Ticket Office until Thursday at noon. Tickets are $75.00 and include all three (3) games. (Limited Quantity Available) 
Sunday's Championship Game 8:30pm 



page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 26, 1997 
•NIT 

'Noles outlast Huskies in overtime battle, 71-65 
By TOM WITHERS 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
James Collins matched his ca­reer-high with 29 points, Kerry Thompson added 20 and Florida State advanced to its first NIT final Tuesday night with a 71-65 overtime victory over Connecticut. 
Thompson, a junior from New York playing with a dislocated finger, made a 3-pointer with 
3.9 seconds left in regulation to tie it 59-59 and force the over­time. 
In defeating their third Big East opponent in the tourna­ment, the Seminoles (20-11) earned a spot in Thursday's 
championship game against the the winner of Tuesday's second semifinal between Michigan and Arkansas. 
Freshman Richard Hamilton scored 26 points to lead the Huskies (17-15), who will finish their season Thursday night in the third-place game. 
Collins made 8 of 12 3-point­ers for Florida State, which de­feated Syracuse and West Virginia of the Big East on the road earlier in the tournament. Center Randall Jackson, who came in averaging 18.3 points in the tourney, was held to eight on 2-for-11 shooting. 
But Collins and Thompson picked up the scoring slack and denied UConn, the 1988 NIT champion, a second trip to the tournament final. Florida State was also able to erase the ugly memory of its last meeting against Connecticut, a 79-61 loss on national television. 
Following that game, FSU coach Pat Kennedy had written a letter to the school's fans apol­ogizing for his team's effort and sent it to a local newspaper. 
Hamilton's jumper 23 seconds into overtime put the Huskies up 61-59 before Collins' 3-pointer gave the Seminoles the lead for good. 
Jackson's inside basket and two free throws by Corey Louis helped Florida State extend its lead to 66-61 with 2:16 left. 
The Seminoles, who defeated Final Four entrant North Carolina by 13 points during the regular season, got two more free throws from Thompson with 49 seconds left, and watched Connecticut self­destruct on its next two posses­sions. 
First Hamilton walked, Rashamel Jones was called for a charge with 32 seconds left and UConn coach Jim Calhoun was assessed a technical fou I for arguing. 
Jones' 3-pointer with 1:00 left in regulation had given the Huskies a 59-54 lead before Jackson made two free throws. 
Jones missed a 3 on Connecticut's next trip with 16 seconds left, giving Florida State a chance to tie it, and Thompson did. He calmly dribbled at the top of the key before sinking his game-tying 3-pointer. 
Hamilton picked up his fourth foul less than a minute later and sat for a 3:38 stretch. With Hamilton out, the Huskies strug­gled offensively and Florida State caught them at 53 on Collins' seventh 3-pointer with 
3:58 remaining. UConn went without a field goal for a 6:38 stretch of the second half before Hamilton's jumper gave the Huskies a 56-53 lead with 2:39 to play. 
Collins scored 11 points and Thompson 10 in the first half as Florida State took a 33-32 lead at the break. 
-

ALUMNI
Ill 

SENIOR 
:1: 
1­

Courtesy of the University of Connecticut 
Husky head coach Jim Calhoun watched his team fall to Florida State, which advanced to its first ever NIT championship game. 
Wanted: 

WORLD HUNGER COALITION
Reporters, 

is sponsoring the annual 
photographers, and editors. Join The 
EASTER BASKETS 
Obseruer staff 

AN HOUR OF YOUR TIME WILL MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN SOMEONE ELSE'S 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 

EASTER! 300 SOUTH BEND FAMILIES WILL RECEIVE BASKETS WITH YOUR HELP.
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search 
in National Parl<s. Forests. and Wildl~e 
Preserves. 
Learn from the #1 Source that uncovers hundreds of employment 

WENEEDYOU
opportUnities in the great outdoors 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefits 



TODAY 
WEDNESDAY at STEPAN CENTER
TEACH EllllLISH in 
EASTERN EUROPE 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
How would you like to teach basic 

ASSEMBLE 2:00 -4:00PM
conversational English in Eastern Europe? Our matenals profile many rewarding teaching opportunities with 
great benefits. For mfonnation, call: 

DISTRIBUTE 4:00 -6:00 PM 
(206) 971-3680 Ext. K55845 
WflueJ._udl .. pu.blilh~c:o. 


_-.4 I
Wednesday, March 26, 1997 

The Observer • 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 I t 
• 
' ' 
•
l 1 
~ ~
omen, t j 
~ 
I 
'


• 
u en IC ~ee om 
Presented by: 

HelenAlvare _ 


_ 
---~----~-·----~.------------­
--~­
-

-----~~----~ ~ 
page 18 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 26, 1997 
ies next year. While working towards his Ph.D. in computer • WOMEN'S fiNAL fOUR
Fencing 

science, Siek will be helping out future fencers by giving lessons 
continued from page 24 

Irish to debut in the Final Four 
while training with the team. 
"There is both good and bad to the end of fencing," said Siek. 
"Not seeing the people will be difficult and the fact that I won't have anymore chances to win it all are tough to handle. But now I'll have more of a chance to focus on fencing the 
U.S. Circuit events." 
Siek's experience with Notre Dame fencing will not be com­pletely over, however. Siek will be returning to graduate stud-
II SPOQT$•BlIIIEFS: :c 
T:~ Kwon_­are instructed accordance with World TaeKwon Do Federation-techniques. This semester ~long c'()urse mee Sundays fronr 3,~!4 p.m. Rockne Rm. 3Q:L; You mu register in ttdvance RecSports and the fee is $20. 
Climbing Wall Odentations are -available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial every Sunday it(l p.m.Wednesday at 6]im. Sign · outside the wall. iii;id . ·. 
Advanced Scuba Ret;Sports will be sponsorllAdvanced· S · · participants divers. For 
61QO. 
Weekend 

Siek also has hopes of one day performing in the Olympics. 
"It's going to be nice to con­tinue working with Notre Dame fencing while still working on future goals," said Siek. 
Though the season has now ended short of a goal, the fenc­ing team still maintains its pride of a worthy finish. 
"It's disappointing to finish so close to our goal, but there is no shame in finishing such a close second," said Lester. 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER Final Four appearance when about since the first day I Associated Press Writer they play defending champion signed," senior Beth Morgan Tennessee on Friday night. said. "I think it's due to our 
Tennessee, Stanford and Old Stanford and Old Dominion, seniors. We've been persistentDominion bring impressive the only No. 1 seeds to make it, and resilient this year." resumes to the NCAA women's meet in the opener of the semi­That resiliency part has been 
Final Four and a combined finals. The winners play Sunday crucial bP.cause injuries left the seven national titles. night for the title, which has Irish (31-6) with only seven 
But that's nothing. The fourth been won four times by players at one point this season team. Notre Dame, has won Tennessee, twice by Stanford and they have just eight now. more than that all by itself. Of and once by Old Dominion. But Morgan and senior center 
course, those eight champi­Notre Dame, which lost to Katryna Gaither have been the onships were in football. Tennessee in the semifinals of best 1-2 combination in the 
Notre Dame is both a surprise the preseason NIT, would like tournament, enabling the Irish and a newcomer in this year's to join that list of champions. to fight their way through the group, which will gather in Getting to the Final Four brings East Regional to become the 
Cincinnati to crown the 1997 them one step closer to that first No. 6 seed to reach the national champion. goal. Final Four since Alabama in The Irish will make their first "It's something I've dreamed 1994. 
The University Libraries of Notre Dame 
are pleased to announce 
BRITANNICA ONLINE 
is here to stay! 
Due to all the positive feedback we have received from students, staff and faculty concerning the Encyclopedia Britannica Online, the University Libraries will continue their subscription. Britannica Online is a faster and easier way to begin your search for information whether you're doing a research project or just seeking general facts and statistics. The Britannica is available through the University Libraries' homepage along with many other electronic reference resources such as: CARL UnCover, a database which indexes over 17,000 refereed and popular periodicals; LEXIS/NEXIS, a full-text database to newspaper and magazine articles, legal and business information; and UNLOC, the University ofNotre Dame Libraries' Online Catalog. 
The URL is: 
http://www.nd.edu/~refdept/guides/db-homep.htm 
"Begin searching our little corner ofthe Net today." 
wvfi 640am is now accepting applications for the following positions 
PaidPositions Include: .­Assistant Station Manager Sports Director -Responsible for overall management of the station -Coordinates WVFI sports broadcasts Director of Personnel News Director -Charged with the duty of managing station -Coordinates WVFI news programming announcers Music Director Production Manager -Reviews and supplies all music for airplay -Responsible for all announcements and related Advertising Director promotion -Creater of all WVFI propaganda in various medi 
Un-Paid Positions Include: 
Remotes Director Staff Liason -Processes remotes requests and booking -Enhances the relationship between staff and Saint Mary's Coordinator announcers -Liason between Saint Mary's College and WVFI 
• 
Applications now available at the Student Activities Office (315 LaForTune) 

• 
All applications are due April 4th by 3:00 pm in the Student Activities Office 


WVFI does not discriminate against applicants with no previous WVFI general broadcasting or music experience 


page 19 
_.., 
.. 

Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Mark Godish hails from Muncie, Indiana where he played high school basketball for Wes-Del High School. Mark, a freshman biology major, loves to participate in any roundball related event. Mark was a team leader for the Men's A lnterhall basketball champions, Manor Gold A. Under Godish's play in the post, Manor Gold bounced back from a regular season loss to Off-Campus, redeeming themselves with a semi-final victory over the same scrappy Off-Campus team and a championship over previously undefeated Alumni. Godish was integral as he scored consistently in the paint and was the dominant rebounder of the tournament. According to Godish, "The lnterhall basketball leagues and tournament were a good bonding experience for Morrissey, for the players and the residents of the hall. We really appreciated the fans that came out to support us." 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 



VARSITY SHOP 

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 



"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 

' 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <J:~ 
&ll 
merchandise courtesy of <J:~ and the VARSITY SHOP located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The
'II"''
viTi% 
is open Monday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Phone: 631-8560). 
,...--------­
~" 

r 
' 
r 
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, March 26, 1997 
t .... 
' 
• 
' ~ • 
• TRACK AND fiELD 

Irish add three new provisional qualifiers for NCAA 

team between the sunny "We had very good times," ished in second place in th The track team splits up
Track team fares 

Pacific coast and the Deep said Piane. "These times 110-meter hurdles, finishing again this weekend, sending South. Both teams fared well would do very well at the Big in 14.15 seconds. teams to Phoenix and Purdue.well in split­in split-squad action, and the East, which is May 3 and 4. On the women's side, Nadia West, Engelhardt, and 
Irish now boast three new Our main purpose was to get a Schmiedt's time of 60.52 sec­Fleisch will be accompaniedsquad action NCAA provisional qualifiers. few guys qualified for the onds qualified her in fourth by Dominque Calloway and The long-distance teams NCAAs. So we accomplished place in the 400-meter hur­Jeff Hojnacki to the Phoenix
By WILLY BAUER 

traveled to Palo Alto, Calif., for our goal." dles. Alison Howard finished meet. The remainder of the
Sports Writer 

the Stanford Invitational. The sprinters and field event in third in the 400-meter dash team will have to settle for the Derek Seiling qualified for the personnel were shipped to the and Jennifer Engelhardt was less-luxurious climate of
Every coach has a strategy 

NCAA championships in the Alabama Relays in Tuscaloosa. the third best high jumper at Purdue.
for their team, and track 

steeple chase, while Jason Senior Mike Fleisch finished Alabama. "We'll do pretty well," pre­
coach Joe Piane's divine strat­

Rexing and Matt Althoff quali­in second place in the shot put "Overall, it was a pretty dicted Millar. "[The Sun Devil
egy has been divide and con­

fied in the 10,000-meter run. with a heave of 57 feet, 11 good performance considering Invitational] will be the first
quer. So far, through the 

Teammates in the 10,000, inches. Freshman sensation it is early in the year," said outdoor meet where we will
cross-country, indoor and, 

Joe Dunlop and Scott Grace, Marshaun West finished in assistant coach John Millar, have a majority of our teams
now, the outdoor track season, 

also faired well in the 10,000. third place in the long jump who accompanied the team to compete. We shall see where
that game plan has worked 

Dunlop finished with a time of with a jump two inches shy of Alabama. "We had better we are at for the Big East
with stellar results. 

30.22, and Grace with 30.34. 25 feet. times than we had last year at tournament."
Last weekend, Piane split his 

Hurdler Errol Williams fin-this time." 

Senior Mike Fleish finished second in the shot put with a throw of 57 feet and 11 inches. 

WORK CATERING FOR GRADUATION 
MAY 10-18 
FREE ROOMAND BOARD $6.75 per hour 
** DEADLINE FOR HOUSING APRIL 3RD ** APPLY IN PERSON AT CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE SOUTH DINING HALL LOWER LEVEL 
FOR MORE INFO CALL:
SPECIAL SIGN-UP: M-F 10:30 AM-4:30PM 
63.1-5449 

AFRICAN FILM FESTIVAL SCREENING EVERY WEDNESDAY AT 7 P.M. • ISS DEBARTOLO HALL • FREE ADMISSION • 
Wed. April2.: "UDJU AZUL DI YONTA" or "THE BLUE EYES OF YONTA" from Guin~ea-Bissau Panel Diseussion: "AFRICA IN THE AFTERMATH OF INDEPENDENCE" 
Wed. Apr·il9: "LE GRANG BLANC DE LAMRARENE" from Cameroon Panel Discussion: ""COLONIALISM REVISITED: THE COLONIZED VIEW" 
Wed. April 16: "GUIMBA THE TYRANT" from Mali, Grand Pl'ize at FESPACO 1995: Panel Discussion: " WISDOM & POLITICAL POWER IN AFRICA" Chair: PI'Of. Fred Dallmayr, Govenunent Department. 
LECTURES & OTHER EVENTS 
• PROSPECTS FOR DEVELOPING ECONOMIES: SUB-SAHAHAN AFRICA ON THE BRINK OF THE 21ST CENTURY • A LECTURE by Prof. Douglas Aghetsiafa, Economies DPJHtrlmPnl, IUSB Mmler·ator·; Pn>f. Patt·ieia Davis, GovPrnnwnt Department. Date: Monday April 7 Tinw: 7:00: P.M. Venue: IIeslnn·gh Cent;,. Atulitm·ium/PPa!'<' Studies • THE WORLD BANK IN AFRICA:TIME TO REASSESS ITS ROLE • A LECTUHE by .John Mihevc, Dit·ector, Economic Programme Intt•t·-Chun:h Coalition on Afriea, Toronto, Canada Date: Thm·sday April [() Time: 12:15: P.M. Venue: Room C-103 HPshurgh CPntf't' ll'f'1H'e Studies • AFRICAN IDENTITY (AFTER CABRAL) • A LECTURE hy Prof. Fn·d Dallmayt·, The Packey .J. Dee Chair, Professm·, Govemment Depat·tment, Fellow of Institute, Kdlogg Institute, .Joan B. Kroe lnst. fm· Inti. Pea!'e Studies 
Date: Monday Ap!'ill4 Time: 7:00: P.M. · Venue: Hesburgh Center Auditorium/Peace Studies • THE NEW SOUTH AFRICAN CONSTITUTION: A TOOL FOR RECONCILIATION? • 
Date:  Monday April21  Time:  A Round Table Diseussion 7:00: P.M. Venue: Heshurgh CentPr Auditot·ium/Peace Studies  
• IN TERNATIONAL MUSIC/DANCE PARTY •  
Date:  Ft·iday April 18  Time: 6:30 PM -l :00 : (6:30-8:30: Family Time: Games & Stories for kids) 8:30-1:00 NON ALCOHOLIC, i.e, open to all  

Venne: Alumni-Senior Club (Next to Business College) 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
SpQn.mrs: Notre Dame African Students' Association, The Kellogg Institute, Swdent Government, African & African American Studies Program, Grculuate Student Union, English Dept., History Dept., Educational Media, Center for Civil & Human Riglrts, Multicultural Swdent Affairs Office at Saint Mary's, Anthropology Dept. 



~··----~----------,--~--~ 
Wednesday, March 26, 1997-The Observer • SPORTS 
Voted: 
AREA'S BEST TANNING CENTER 
Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
University Commons  Grape & McKinley  
by UP Mall  near KMart  
272-7653  256-9656  

Specials! 
Unlimited Tanning 1 week $15.00 
OR Until Graduation 
(May 18) 
$50.00 

beat. The senior came into the game batting .385 and improved his average even more with a three-for-five evening. 
"The transition (from reserve to starter) has been easy for me," commented O'Keefe, "because I've had opportunities to play in the past. I'm not looking to fill Justin's shoes. I just want to do what I do best 
page 21 
like getting on base and trying to score runs for the team. 
Amrhein has hit in 20 of Notre Dame's 21 contests this season. He currently is among the top five players in the Big East in hits, RBI, walks and total bases. 
J.J. Brock went three-for-four with a walk to raise his batting average above .300 for the first time this season. 
Help us help som kidsI 
T
HE Irish Connection is a small group of Notre Dame students who decid­ed that it was time to brin one local Pittsburgh school into the 21st century by connecting them to the Internet. Our services include fundraising, public ity, planning, purchasing, installation and curriculu development, and are lim­ited only by the imagina­tions ofour 'Dolunteers. 
B
UT, we cannot do it alone. We need dedi­cated imaginative people from all backgrounds to help in whatever way they can. If you or your organi­zation would be interested in donating funds or ser­vices, or would just like more information please contact Bryan Meyer, the project coordinator prefer­ably via e-mail. 
The ­
111rish e"ti 
Connection 
Bringing theJuturt to tJucatiotJ 
Bryan Meyer E-Mail to: lrish@ap.observer.nd.edu 

Join The Observer Production Staff 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
spread over the fourth and fifth innings. 
Ust opened the fourth with a double, but after Greene walked, Felker grounded into a 4-6-3 double play, which pushed Ust to third. With two outs, Frye came up big, as he singled to drive in Ust. This ini­tiated a string of five con­secutive Irish hits, which led to a 7-4 Notre Dame lead before the side was retired. 
WMU answered by chasing McKeown from the mound and closing the gap to 7-6 in the top of the fifth. However, the Irish attack roared once again. They opened the bottom of the stan­za with six consecutive hits including a leadoff triple from Ust and an RBI double by Frye. 
"The bats were really key for us today," said McKeown, who was the beneficiary of all the offense. "Any time you have a four-run inning and a five-run inning back-to-hack it's going to help." 
From there, Notre Dame 
never looked back. Mike 
Balicki and Pat Davis combined 
to shut down the Bronco hit­
ters, and the Irish offense 
added two runs in the sixth, 
one in the seventh and two 
more in the eighth on Ust's 
third home run of the year. 
"I played with him (Ust) a lit­
tle over the summer," said 
McKeown, "so I knew what he 
was capable of. He hit the ball 
well in fall practice and he has 
just carried that over to now." 
Other notable performances 
were turned in by O'Keefe, 
Mike Amrhein, and J:J. Brock. 
O'Keefe has been playing 
right field for the injured Justin 
Scholl and has not missed a 
-~------·­
------~--------------~----------------~ 
!~ 
page 22 The Observer • CARTOON QUEST Wednesday, March 26, 1997 

o will follow in the path ofDave Kellett and Ed Leader as the next cartoonist for 
The Observer? Each of these candidates has his eyes set on being the next. And the decision is up to you. 
That's right: your vote will determine which comic strip appears in The Observer. 
In each issue this week and next week, a selection from each of the four comic strips will appear here. Next week, a ballot will be provided at the bottom of this page so that you can submit your vote for your favorite comic strip. 
KEVIN TROVINI 
Three wo~r, have 
r eouldr.1t bt.~y a da-re) and already asked me 
you1ve bee"" asked -to o4r ~ -to -toke -them, 
danc.e. by rh ree wo~en? ~ 
)Do '104 ho~e. 

any 1de~ how d.,f:Rcul-r it w;ll b~ -t-o __.--­

c.hoo$e one1 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
llfCII>IN~ THitY NAVE' THe RIC•HT 
1'LAr.,.1 THI! 6d'r'l 6t!C,IN .,.o C.l..f!AN··• 

Qo':'le Luc.o $ 'fr"€Se"i:."' •. -....______ 
\li;:.'h: A"d .t 
o"kl coSt vS 
s~s.,. t.c ~~~ 
c ..'\'\Ov •e v.P t·e 
::ee" 10 ...,...,P< 
bc.fo..-e .' ­I 

i ~ 
I I 
~ 
f 

Wednesday, March 26, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ASSUME. 'YOUR PROJECT WOULD 

MIXED MEDIA 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

PROJECT FOR A "QUALITY'' 
AWARD I'LL NEED YOUR 1-\ELP ON THE DI5HONE5T PARTS 

34 Kind of station21 Pale purple 

-=-+=+:,:..t-::;..1 22 Sour gum tree 35 Menial 25 Schoolteachers 
36 Noble act of old 38 Basketball, 26 "There Is informally Nothin' Like 39 Melted cheese dish · 27 Observes 
44 Like the Aires of 29 Unclear Argentina 

Ask yourself~ Is aleohol doing you more good than harm, or more harm than good? 
Spoa110retl •,-th~ Office of Aleohol aad Drug Edueailea 
BUDGET BECAUSE IT5 
ACRONYM WAS SIMILAR 
TO A PROJE.C.T THAT 
55 Neck 58 Numbskull 59 Window part 60 Forbidden 61 Spy in a 1962 · 
exchange 62 Plane, e.g. 63 Sends forth 64 Change the 
decor &sSicilian province or its capital 
DOWN 

1 Forest, to Fabius 2 Prospector's filing 3 Still with us 4 Bugbear 5 Sales lure 6 Enlighten 7Suds &Actress Magnani 
Puzzle by Richard Hughes 91987Tony­
30 Nasty

winning play 10 Zodiac start 
32 Misbehave 11 Perturb 33 It's between eta and iota 
12 Caviar 

JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Career progress suddenly acceler­ates. Be careful oot to neglect family life while taking advantage of excit­ing new professional options. If asked to relocate, consult teen-age offspring before making a fmal deci­sion. A profitable at-home business could allow you or your mate to give up commuting. January of '98 will find you heading for parts un­known. Take along a favorite com­panion if you can. The end of a con­tract means the start of something better! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON
MIKE PETERS 
THIS DAY: Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, singer Diana Ross, actor James Caan, football player Marcus Allen. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Romance continues to be exhilarat­ing. Be sure to meet a work deadline before rushing off to meet your loved one. You cannot afford to take chances with your health. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Showing that you are a team player will give you an enviable profes­sional reputation. Do not be afraid to take on more responsibility; your in­stincts are excellent! 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do some serious thinking about your physical condition. Could you be in better shape' Mulling over a cre­ative idea could help you come up with something even better. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Al­though sorely tempted to take a fi­nancial gamble, you should say "no." Do your job to the very best of your ability, but refuse to take on
YOU'RE

HAVE. FAILED 
someone else's duties. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may
SPOOKY.

AND CLAIM THE. 
need extra cash to take care of a bill. 
SAVINGS FROM 
I 

45 Male escort 53 Skiers' aid 47 Go quickly 54 Ear part 48 Bewildered 55 Jeanne d'Arc, 49 Heavenly e.g.: Abbr. 
hunter 56 Popular so Acrylic fiber cooking spray 51 Street on TV 57 Sash 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Recycle The Observer
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
Don't panic; help is available through a family member or business contact. You may not even have to pay inte­rest. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A difficult situation could cast a pall over a friendship. Be unselfish; do whatever you can to help a pal in need. Offer to baby-sit or bring over a home-cooked meal this evening. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Being adaptable will help you find success on this busy day. Once you catch up on your work. you will feel much better. Finish a tedious task before starting a new project. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Get up and moving before inertia takes hold' A strong sense of pur­pose will carry you through to victo­ry. A new partnership is proposed to you. Do some investigating. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A good day for making your in­terests known. The way you use your talents will determine how much success you enjoy. Have all relevant facts and figures at your fingertips. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A delay can be useful. Capitalize on your good judgment and strong sense of fair play. Learn all you can about the economy and the role it plays in your life. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Nurture a parent-child relationship on a daily basis. Keeping in touch with teachers and counselors will help correct a behavioral problem. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Today should have a happy ending 
if you do your pan without holding 
back. Reject an associate's pessi­
mistic attitude. A confident approach 
will work wonders! 

..._~ 
_,. 
-

ACROSS 1 Picket line pariah 5 Singer McEntire 9 Laissez--­14"Winme-­Pu" 15 Hagman TV co-star 16 Clinker 17Cafeau-­18Tres -­19 Air Jordans 20 Patriotic cheer for the tricolor 23 Chocolate on a hotel pillow, e.g. 24 Sycophant 28 "Bravo!" 29 Bother 31 Bother 
32 Central courts 35Boxers, derogatorily 36 Dennis the Menace, at times 37 Advice in · solving some mysteries 40 Communica­
tions prefix 41 Like mud 42 Rest stops 43 Actress Hagen 44 Scrawny 45 Bearded beast 46 Finally makes 
good on a debt 48 Was successful, slangily 52 Phrase of resignation 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


SPORTS 


page 24 
• BASEBALL 

Ust, Frye lead squad to victory in opener 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Despite a slow start yester­day, the Irish exploded for 16 runs on a season high 20 hits and defended Frank Eck 
Stadium by ...--------.,=-------. hammering Western Michigan in their official home open­er. The win actually moves Notre D am e · s Ust h o m e record to 2-0 because of a pre­viously unscheduled home con­test against IUPUI last week and gets the team back on 

Walsh places 
second at NCAA 
tournament 
By DAVID FRICK 
Sports Writer 
The fencing team finished short of its goal of an NCAA championship last weekend, but the second place it earned is nothing to be ashamed of. Entering as first challenger to defending champion Penn State, the team nearly over­came its annual rival only to fall short by a mere six bouts out of the 230 in which they competed. 
"We always knew we could win, but we would have to step it up if that were to take place. Unfortunately, we came up just a little short," said senior sabre captain Bill Lester. 
Lester and fellow sabreist Luke LaValle gave the sabre squad one of the best results of the team. 
"Luke and I had a good tour­nament, but we knew Penn State was going to be tough. We both had the potential to beat them, but it just wasn't meant to be," said Lester. 
The other dominant squad on the team was the women's foil squad. With two top five finishes, the foil squad influ­enced the almost magical comebackon the final day. 
"It was both exciting and stressful when we made our run. The entire team was re­ally psyched," said sophomore Sara Walsh, fi second place finisher. "Even though we came up short, I guess the entire experience is what com­petition is all about. It just gives us more incentive next year<" 
Sophomore foilist Myriah Brown's fifth place finish was also influential in the closing of a 130 point gap to 60 points on the final day of competition. 

track after a painful weekend at Seton Hall. 
Following the three-game sweep at the hands of the Pirates, Irish head coach Paul Mainieri was unsatisfied with his squad's offensive produc­tion. Last night he couldn't have asked for more. 
"I think it (the offensive out­put) was a result of being more aggressive at the plate," said rightfielder Pat O'Keefe. 
On what was an extremely chilly evening, Irish bats heated up the night with nine extra­base hits. Leading the way were freshman Brant Ust and junior Todd Frye. 
Ust, a pre-season pick for Big East Rookie of the Year, reached base in each of his five plate appearances and came just a single shy of hitting for the cycle. The second baseman was three of four with a walk and reached on an error in the second inning. 
Frye, who started at shortstop for the slumping Paul Turco, was four for five with a double. Two of the junior's base hits were key parts of Irish rallies. 
Southpaw Chris McKeown en­tered the game with an 0-2 record and a 4.58 ERA, but overcame a rocky first inning to pitch 4 1/3 solid innings. 
The Broncos came out swing­ing against Notre Dame's sophomore hurler and three of their first four hitters smacked base hits, including two dou­bles. Second baseman Anthonv Halyszko tripled to give Western Michigan a 3-0 lead before McKeown could stem the Bronco tide. 
"I didn't have my placement," explained McKeown. "I was a little up in the zone tonight. It's an adjustment I have to make." 
The Irish went quietly in their half of the first before answer­ing with a pair of runs in the bottom of the second. Sophomore Allen Greene crushed a one-out triple to score. Ust from first and fol­lowed him across on a single by freshman Jeff Felker. 
After falling behind 4-2 in the top of the fourth, Notre Dame opened the flood gates, scoring in every inning from that point on. The bulk of the onslaught rame in form of nine runs 
see BASEBALL I page 21 
• fENCING 

Fencers find final oal foiled 
"I think we are all quite disappointed that we fell a lit­tle short because the whole season was focused on the NCAAs," said Brown. "But without the incredible team spirit we had, we wouldn't have even had a chance to win." 
The fencing team will once again be near the top next year to battle for the crown. Eight of the Irish's 10 NCAA qualified fencers will be returning next year. But the loss of Lester and senior foil captain Jeremy Siek will be felt throughout the entire team. Between the two, they have earned All-American honors seven times. 
"I haven't yet had the chance to become nostalgic about it all ending, but I'm sure I'll be looking back soon enough on all of the good times," said Lester. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Despite a second place by foilist Sara Walsh and a fifth place finish by foilist Myriah Brown, the squad was six bouts short of the 230 needed to secure a NCAA title. 
vs. Tennessee at NCAA Track and Field 
of •· tournament. ·As the 
FinalFour is &efto begin in 
some ·three days just·south 
hiindianapolis, we are left 
not only with four teams, but 
also with many questions 
about the close of the year in 
college basketball. 

I may not be the right one 
to answer these questions 
because my Final Four picks 
included UCLA. Kansas, 
Wake Fore~t. and North 
Carolina, I had the Bruins 
defeating the Jayhawks in 
the final game with Charles 
O'Bannon landing tourna­
ment MVP. 

A friend of mine who goes 
to UCLA had the same final 
game, but a different result 
-a Kansas victory -in his 
Final Four pool. He said 
that he had to follow his 
instincts instead of his heart. 
Indeed, nearly every basket­
ball afficionado had Kansas 
in their Final Four, and most 
had them winning it. 
Why not? The Jayhawks 
had been ranked atop of the 
college basketball polls all 
season arid only became 
stronger as the season pro­
gressed. 

What about UCLA? The 
Bruins, after a sobering 
beginning of the season that 
included a 48-point loss to 
Stanford, came into the tour­
nament as arguably the 
hottest team in college bas­
ketball, seemingly resurrect­
ed under new head coach 
Steve Lavin. 

What happened to UCLA 
and Kansas? Simply put, 
they were outplayed by four 
teams that could make this 
the most exciting Final Four 
of the 1990s. 

The Southeast Region is 
the only region to not be represented by a number­one seed, as Arizona moves on after ruining Kansas' dream season and escaping from Providence. The Wildcats are a tough team with many dangerous scor­ers, including Miles Simon, Michael Dickerson, and superfrOsh Mike Bibby. Watch out for Bibby, the son .. of U$C helld coach Henry 
hndll~our m Cincinnati, 
., at Sun Devil Invite a) •Davis named All-American March 28 
and Purdue Invite March 29 

'C 
see page 21
.....
vs. Purdue at Seton Hall 
March 29 

,--Vjf C/J •Florida State prevails in overtime 
vi 

March 27 see page 16Men's vs. Hobart vs. Northeastern Illinois 
j/ March 29 ~{o/ March 26, 5 p.m. ~ 




