~----------------~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------­

Monday, January 20, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 72 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

ND, SMC students to rally for life in D.C. 
By KATY MURPHY News Writer 
Tonight 32 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from the Right to Life organization will be embarking on a 16­hour bus ride to Washington, D.C., to take part in the annu­al D.C. Pro-life March. There they will continue to voice their strong opposition to abortion, specifically partial­birth abortion. 
Each year since the 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision, which legalized abortion in the United States, the Notre Dame Right to Life organization has participated in the march. 
Recent bombings of abor­tion clinics in north Atlanta and Tulsa are haunting the minds of many activists. Right to Life President Maureen Kramlich states firmly on behalf of the pro-life cause, "We're committed to non-violence. We condemn these random attacks. People who commit them may be anti-abortion, but in no way are they pro-life. They have no place in our movement." 
Arriving in Washington Tuesday morning and leaving Wednesday night, the group has quite a full schedule. Tuesday is primarily a day of sightseeing, and there will be a lunch at Union Station for pro-life students from all over the country. 
The Mass for Life will be held that night in the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, which is the largest church in the western 
see PRO-LIFE I page 4 


Moreau showcases prof's art 

By ANGELA CATALDO News Writer 
Billy Ray Sandusky, one of two artists whose works opened in the Moreau Center Art Galleries, presented a lecture on Friday, Jan. 17, on his exhibit, "Billy Ray Sandusky: New Work of '96." 
The showing is the first that Sandusky, an associate profes­sor of art at Saint Mary's, has given at the college since 1980, his first year teaching at the South Bend campus. As an artist, Sandusky states that his works "are reflections of some of the thoughts, activities, and preoccupations" which con­sume his time as a father, hus­band, friend, artist, educator, and gardener. 
Sandusky earned his bachelor of fine arts degree from the John Herron Art School of Indiana University in 1968 and his master of fine arts from Tulane University in 1970. He spent seven years instructing and directing courses in Florence, Italy for the Santa Reparta Graphic Art Centre. Sandusky then began instruct­ing in the Saint Mary's College Rome Program. 
After teaching for three years in Rome, Sandusky was offered 
Special to The Observer Several of Professor Billy Ray Sandusky's works, including this one, will be on display in the Moreau Center Art Galleries at Saint Mary's until Feb. 16. 
a position as a sabbatical replacement in South Bend. At first, Sandusky recalls, he thought, "Women's Catholic school? I don't think so. Sounds a little weird to me!" 
Despite his reservations, Sandusky accepted the position. "In Rome I had met these fan­tastic students and thought, 'Now, these guys are pretty cool. They are good artists and serious students.' Plus, I was desperate for a print shop." 
Sandusky stated that the most difficult part of the move was the College's location. "I was brought up in Indianapolis and left in '68 swearing to never set foot in the state again," he said with a grin. "But I figured that South Bend was cool because it is so far north it is not really in Indiana!" 
Also, he considered the time frame -the position was for only one year. "We figured we could handle it for a year. Well, that was 1980 and we're still here." 
When he returned to Indiana, Sandusky said he rediscovered the sky. "In Florence I never saw the sky -the buildings were too close; I was hemmed in. I had almost forgotten what it was like." ­
It was at this point that Sandusky began concentrating on landscapes. His landscapes, however, are not traditional landscapes "with the barn and field." Rather, Sandusky's landscapes are very close views of the natural environment; a "zoomed-in" effect. 
"These to me are landscapes because they have all of the attributes of landscapes," he stated. 
see SANDUSKY I page 4 
• BUSINESS BEAT 

U.S. Chamber praises efforts of 1 04th Congress 
By MICHAEL LEWIS News Writer 

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a small business advocacy lobbying group, has called 1996 a successful year for business-­and credits the outgoing 104th Congress. 
Legislative items that the Chamber sup­ported and the Congress passed included the line-item veto, the Regulatory Flexibility Act, welfare reform, health care reform, and other legislation. The Chamber consid~ ers some of them final victories and other items will receive further attention in the 105th Congress. 
"Line-item veto is an open and shut case," Joe Davis, the Chamber's media consultant, said. "Welfare reform, we like to think, is an open and shut case." ­
These issues will not be on the Chamber's 1996 lobbying agenda, as the group feels it has made sufficient advancements with regard to these items. One of the defeats in the 104th Congress was the Senate's one­vote defeat of the Balanced-Budget Amendment. It got 66 of the required 67 votes needed to pass it to the states for rati­fication. 
Regulatory reform and health care reform are areas that will receive contin­ued attention as well as balancing the bud­get, Davis said. The Chamber supported the Kassebaum-Kennerly Act, which increased health insurance portability. 
The Regulatory Flexibility Act, another Chamber victory, allows Congressional review, within 60 days, of proposed regura­tions targeting small businesses. Pension simplification legislation, passed in 1996, makes it easier for small business owners to sponsor retirement plans for their employees. 
see CHAMBER I page 4 
Remembering Dr. King 
The Observer/Rob Finch Sister Teresita is seen here holding hands with Dr. Giles Conwill at a Wednesday prayer service held in memory of Martin Luther King, Jr. 
See Irish Focus, page 3 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, January 20, 1997 




















• Wti!RO AT A GLANCE 
Carbombing, massacre plague Algeria
How-has your 
ALGIERS, Algeria 


A car bomb exploded Sunday out­ple were side a downtown cafe, killing at least 
21 people and wounding dozens, just and clinics to donate blood. hours after attackers massacred 36 
Today is a very important day for all of us, 

life changed? 

villagers -decapitating some ­a day for celebration. Today marks the 
south of the capital. beginning of change, the struggle for truth, 
Witnesses reported a second explo­and the hope for the 

sion Sunday near Reghaia, about 20 future. Today is the day 
miles east of Algiers. There were on which we observe the 
reports of injuries, but no details. at the scene. birthday of Martin 
Government security force officials, name. Luther King, Jr. 
speaking on condition of anonymity, Take the time today to 
said they dismantled at least six car reflect on what this day 
bombs Sunday in the Algiers area. means to you. Most of 
The violence was the worst in what sealed off the area. the people reading this 
has been a bloody 1997 in this North article were not alive 
African country, where a five-year aged shops and nearby buildings. when Martin Luther Margee Husemann 
Islamic insurgency has killed at least King, Jr. died; however, Associate 
60,000. AP all of us have been in 
The car bomb exploded shortly
Viewpoint Editor some way affected by 


after 8 p.m. Sunday in downtown Algiers, and was pow­security forces said. The official APS news agency said his work. 
erful enough to be heard across the capital. The govern­some of the victims were decapitated. Living all of our lives in the aftermath of 
ment said 21 people were killed and that 30 of the It was not clear whether the his movement can cloud our vision -we are 
wounded were seriously hurt. Saturday or early Sunday. able to take for granted the changes that have been made because we did not see 
Police deluged with tips in Cosby case Poll: Clinton approval as high as ever 
them occur. This complacency also allows us 
to ignore the changes that are still to be 

LOS ANGELES made. This is especially true here where the 
As Ennis Cosby was buried on his .-------~ President Clinton enters his second term with as high minority population is so small, and we are 
family's estate in Massachusetts, an approval rating as any he enjoyed in his first four years so infrequently confronted with today's 
police on Sunday were deluged with in office, according to a Newsweek magazine poll released issues regarding ethnicity. 
tips after releasing sketches of a sus­Sunday. A telephone survey of 752 adults taken Thursday Can you image yourself as a African­
pect and possible witness in the slay­and Friday showed that 57 percent approve of Clinton's American woman or man before the civil 
ing. "We've received numerous calls handling of the presidency, 34 percent disapprove and 9 rights movement? How would you feel ifyou 
since the the composite was percent had no opinion. had to sit in a certain place or use a certain 
released," Officer Vincent Aguirre est for Clinton in a Newsweek poll. He last scored an door. bench, or bathroom because of the 
said Sunday. The sketch of the suspect approval rating of 57 percent in August. Before that, he color of your skin? I imagine that everyone 

is of a white man, 25 to 32 years old, of average height had 57 percent in a poll taken two months into his first on this campus would feel angry, and they 
and weight wearing a light-colored knit cap. It was term. The poll in Newsweek's Jan. 27 issue, due on news­would be right. 
released Saturday night. Cmdr. Tim McBride said police stands Monday, also asked people about their expecta­I can't admit to being extremely knowl­
don't know if there is more than one suspect and if any­tions for life in the 21st century. edgable about Martin Luther King, Jr., but I 
thing was taken from Cosby's car. Police still consider between rich and poor in the United States will narrow or think that every American is aware of his 
robbery the probable motive. Cosby, 27, was shot in the widen over the next century, 74 percent predicted it presence and of the changes which he helped 
head early Thursday morning as he changed a tire would widen, while only 19 percent believed it would nar­to bring about. Martin Luther King, Jr. is not 
along a West Los Angeles road. Meanwhile in western row. When asked about the gap between rich and poor only a role model for African-Americans, he 
Massachusetts, Cosby was buried on his family's expan­worldwide, 73 percent believed it would widen and 19 is a model for every American. He stood up 
sive estate in Shelburne after a private service. Before predicted it would grow smaller. Respondents were more for the truth with undying passion. He 
police blocked the road to the property, flowers were optimistic about cures for deadly diseases. Seventy-two believed in something enough to give his life 
delivered to the home, and a man tacked a large sign percent predicted scientists will cure cancer, while 70 for it. He brought attention to a wrong in 
that read "Hello Friend" to a post inside the front gate. percent expect an AIDS cure in the next century. order to change it and to make things right. He made a difference. 
Harsh winter takes toll on buffalo Atlantis undocks from Russian station 
Consider King's life. Would you have been able to fight such a charged issue as preju­

YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, Wyo.dice with non-violence as King did? Would 
Extreme winter weather may decimate the buffalo in With cries of "see you guys," the Atlantis astronauts you have been so patient with a government 
Yellowstone National Park, a herd already being killed hugged the three men on the Russian space station Mir that is alienated from you? Would you have 
by man in record numbers once the beasts leave the goodbye, then sealed the hatches and flew away Sunday continued when the battle was all uphill and 
safety of the park. Deep snow that came early to the night. Shuttle Atlantis undocked slowly and gently from when some of your own soldiers fought so 
park froze into a thick crust that the buffalo can't get Mir after five days of joined flight, differently that they seemed to be against 
more you? Would you have been able to do what 
through to graze. They are surviving on bark and pine soared than 240 miles above Hussia. 
needles. "That's starvation food," said National Park good night and a safe trip home, John," the Mir cosmo­
Martin Luther King, .Jr. did? 

Service scientist Mary Meagher. ''I've seen enough nauts told NASA's returning John Blaha in Hussian. America has made many advancements 
already this winter to tell you there will be a population Blaha had lived with them for four months. because of Martin Luther King, Jr., but the 
crash. I can't tell you how far it will go." Meagher, who slipped away into the blackness of space several min­fight isn't over. The dream about which King 
has studied Yellowstone bison for 38 years, is not pre­utes later, after circling the station twice for a photo­so eloquently spoke about in 1963 has not 
dicting extinction. But she said Yellowstone's changing graphic survey. "Hugs and kisses," called out Mir com­been realized. Our attempts to drown racism 
nature means the herd will get much smaller this year mander Valery Korzun. have succeeded in some places, but have 
than it has in past years. She blames the park's interior in the day, Blaha and his replacement on failed miserably in others. 
roads, which are groomed to accommodate snowmo­Linenger, shook hands and embraced. The five other King's dream will have come true when 
biles. By using those trails instead of floundering Americans and two Russians also exchanged fond ethnicity and gender are no longer a consid­
through deep snow, the buffalo save energy and many farewells. "Until we meet again on the ground and in eration in any field. When the color of some­
more survive. Meagher estimates the population orbit," shuttle commander Michael Baker said in one's skin matters less to everyone than 
reached about 4,000 two years ago, which is near his­Russian. 'Til see you all in the summer," said Linenger, what that person believes or does, "the con­
toric highs and about double what it would be without a 42-year-old doctor who will spend the next 4 1/2 tent of [their] character," then King will be 
winter tourism. months conducting station experiments. 
happy. When affirmative action is a nod or a 
handshake rather than a quota, then King 
will be happy. 
Our duty is to eliminate prejudice from our 



own lives. Don't accept it from yourself. 

5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 20
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Don't accept it from others. The world is 
Lines separate high temperaiUre zones for the day.
what we make it. Like Martin Luther King, 

Jr., it is our job to make it better. r-.............-//................. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Monday c::=1 

Tuesday ~ ..,,,.
News Production John DeBoy Belle Bautista 


Wednesday ~ 39 22 
: ' ... ' .... '
Laura Petelle Maureen Hurley 
Sports John DeBoy 

FRONTS:
Thursda..'.. y ~ ~{)''''' 16
Brian Fremeau Lab Tech 
:,..,:".(' 

"T"T'" ........._ -yA.­
Viewpoint Dave Murphy 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Ethan Hayward Graphics 

Pressure
Friday ~··'"29 
Accent Sue O'Kain 
~.-5'/.....r~-·'·-,/·_..... 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS .RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE
Joey Crawford 


Atlanta 65 37 Fairbanks ·5 -t5 
Baltimore 42 22 Green Bay 3t t3 
Boston 33 20 Honolulu 77 67
~~~uu&:d ~ ~ u
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

','' ,', '',', :. ...... ·=·.::=·.::=· -::..-:..-=­
Chicago 38 27 Los Angeles 64 49
excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
the Associated Press. All reproducdon rights are reserved. 
Columbus 43 23 Miami 73 51
Via Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet 
Hospitals reported at least 60 peo­injured, and hundreds of residents went to nearby hospitals 
Witnesses said the bomb exploded in front of a cafe next to a cinema in the popular Belcourt quarter while residents were breaking their daily fast for the holy month of Hamadan. 
"It's carnage," said a man helping 
He did not give his 
The street was littered with bodies, many covered by sheets borrowed from of nearby homes. Authorities 
The force of the blast heavily dam­
In Beni-Slimane, a village 45 miles south of Algiers, attackers killed 36 people in bloodshed that lasted hours, 
massacre was late 
NEW YORK 
The approval rating is the high­
Asked whether the gap 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. 
as the spacecraft "Have a 
Atlantis 
In a farewell ceremony earlier Mir, Jerry 
10 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Minneapolis 36 24 New York 41 26 Phoenix 66 54 St. Louis 55 38 Seattle 45 40 
Monday, January 20, 1997 The Observer • IRISH FOCUS page 3 


Remembering Martin Luther King, Jr. 

Today, America celebrates the wis­dom and memory of Martin Luther King, Jr. As the nation honors the man, it is worth remembering the challenge that the man set for the 
· nation. King set forth his mandate in speeches throughout his life; here are two samples of . his words. 
"America, I don't plan to let you rest until the day comes into being when all. God's chil­dren will be respected, and every man will respect the dignity and worth of human per­sonality. 
America, I don't plan to allow you to rest until from every city hall in this country, jus­tice will roll down like waters and righteous­miss like a mighty stream. 
America, I don't plan to let you rest until from every state house.:. men will sit in the seat who will do justly. who will love mercy, and who will walk humbly before their God. 
America, I don't plan to let you rest until you live it out that 'all men are created equal and endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights.'" · 
--address given March 22, 1968, during a rally, Albany, Ga. 
"Let us therefore continue our triumphant march toward the realization of the American dream. 
Let us march on segregated housing until every ghetto of social and economic oppres­sion is dissolved and Negroes and whites live side by side in decent, safe, and sanitary houses. 
Let us march on segregated schools until every vestige of segregated and inferior edu­cation becomes a thing of the past. 
Let us march on poverty until the wrinkled stomachs ofMississippi are filled, the idle industries ofAppalachia are revitalized, and broken lives in sweltering ghettos are mended and remolded. " 
--address given March 25, 1965, at the end of the Selma-to-Montgomery march, on the steps of the state Capitol, Montgomery, Ala. 
King would have turned 68 last Wednesday. On that day, members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community began a week­long tribute with a prayer service (photos below). The tribute continues today with a Mass in the chapel of Regina Hal1 at noon, a prayer service in Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall at 
4:30 p.m., a performance of the play "Black Man Rising" in O'Laughlin Auditorium of the Moreau Center for the Arts at 7 p.m., and a rally in the LaFortune Student Center at 7:30p.m. 






Giles Conwill, a professor of history at Morehouse College in Atlanta, gave the keynote address during the ser­vice (left). "Martin knew that the idea of 'an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth' would result in an eyeless peo­ple and a toothless generation," Conwill said during his speech. 
At right, Cora Primavera de Nuestra Senora, a choir composed of Notre Dame students, performs "Vida Nueva," a song chosen to honor th.e courage of King. 
Brian Lewis, a senior, reflects while sitting in the Chapel of the Holy Cross, in Keenan and Stanford Halls, site of the ser­vice. 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 20, 1997 
Pro-life 
continued from page I 
hemisphere. Many Notre Dame arid St. Mary's students will be serving as ushers at the Mass. Notre Dame students will then head up to Georgetown University's campus for the night, where they will have dinner and then go out on the town. 
Wednesday opens with a rally at the Ellipse which is led by national pro-life leaders from all different denomina­tions. United States senators, cardinals, and bishops are among the speakers providing inspiration to the crowd. 
Carrying a massive blue and gold banner which reads, "Humans are Persons Too," and joined by a number of alumni, the large Notre Dame group stands out each year. 
As Kramlich describes the banner, "It's so gigantic! 50 people can stand under it, head to head!" 
The crowd will then begin their long march down Constitution Avenue toward the Supreme Court building. 
One of the highlights of the March for Kramlich, who is marching for her fourth time, is the Notre Dame spirit pre­sent. 
"There are a lot of alumni in 
D.C. that march behind us. We sing the fight song and the alma mater. It's really mov­ing," she says. 
Once at their destination at the Supreme Court, the group proceeds to lobby, criticizing certain Congressmen for their past legislation or asking for their support on upcoming issues. One of the pro-life Congressmen is Tim Roemer, a senator from South Bend. 
Of the 100,000 demonstra­
tors on the Mall, many repre­sent the pro-choice movement. Despite this opposition, Kramlich hasn't experienced any major conflicts. "It's total­ly peaceful," she explains. 
Although participation by the Notre Dame Right to Life group aids in the pro-life cause in general, one of the most obvious benefits is seen on a smaller scale. States Kramlich, "It really energizes people and they get excited about the cause. It builds unity." 
She further comments, "In 1973 the United States Supreme Court ruled that abortion was legal for all nine months of pregnancy. It's important for us to get out there and oppose it." 
Students will return to South Bend Thursday morning in time to get back to class. 
Sandusky 
continued from page I 
A trait of each of his land­scapes is a line which passes in front of the pieture. Sandusky stated that these lines repre­sent that, although the onlook­er is very close, the image is still not entirely clear. 
"As we find in life, something is always getting in the way of what we want. So I ended up putting lines or something in the way of whatever is behind it." 
Sandusky experienced a turning point in his career when thP Lilly Foundation sent him to Home for a year to work with artist books. It was at this time that he discovered that "it wasn't necessary to make these incredibly profound artworks, but what was important was to enjoy yourself." 

"There is no better living, at all, " Sandusky said, "then to be able to get up in the morn­ing, have a cup of tea, or what­ever, and then make these cre­ations with no other preoccu­pations. You just need to enjoy what you're doing." 
This experience has affected his teaching method. ''I'm try­ing to get students to figure out that if you please yourself and are happy about what you're making, you don't have to worry about anyone else." 
Sandusky says of his recent work, "I am now having a good time. There are messages in these things; if you get them. good. If you don't, it's okay." 
Sandusky's exhibit is running along with "Whimsical Fractured History: One of a Kind Books by William Schade." Both exhibits are free and open to the public. They will be on display until February 16. 


Cha01ber 
continued from page I 
Minor changes to the small business tax code were also put into effect last year. Other victories included the Freedom to Farm Act, the Telecommunications Act, Securities litigation reform, and the Delany Clause, which gives sci­ence a say in regulatory decisions. 
"Instead of playing defense, business actively worked for legislation that will help create jobs and strengthen the economy," said Bruce Josten, senior vice president of the Chamber. "Activism by American business was an important catalyst in helping the Congress begin to achieve com­mon-sense reforms." 
The Chamber praised the 1 04th Congress for working to cut discretionary spending, for elimi­nating 270 wasteful programs, and for tating necessary steps to restructurn entitlement spnnd­ing. "In 1996, incremental reforms by Congress proved the most successful, and that trend will continue with incremental strategies to guide the 
legislative agenda next year," Josten said. 

Governor honors emeritus prof 
Special w The Observer 
Thomas Bergin, director emeritus of continuing educa­tion and professor emeritus of management at the University of Notre Dame, has received a "Sagamore of the Wabash" award after completing a six­year term on the Indiana Humanities Council. 
The award was presented to Bergin on Governor Evan Bayh's behalf by Third District Congressman Tim Roemer dur­ing a ceremony in Indianapolis last November. 
Indiana's Sagamore of the Wabash award was established during the 1945-49 administra­tion of Governor Ralph Gates. The highest honor an Indiana governor is able to bestow, the award recognizes distinguished service to the state or its gover­nor. 
According to the Governor's office, "The term 'Sagamore' was used by some American Indian tribes of the northeast­ern United States to describe a lesser chief or a great man among the tribe to whom the true chief would look for wis~ dom and advice." 
No official list of Sagamores has been kept and each gover­nor reserves the right to select award recipients personally. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1947, Bergin was graduated from the University in 1945. A native of Watertown, N.Y., he holds a master's degree in economics from the University of Vermont and a doctoral degree from Syracuse University. 
In 1952 Bergin was appointed head of what was then the department of' business admin­istration at Notre Dame, with administrative responsibility for 280 undergraduate business majors. 
He was appo\nted the Jesse Jones professor of business administration in 1961, and three years later was appointed dean of continuing education at 
Spring Organizational Meeting 

Kensington Riding Center is the Home Stable for /996197 
Date: Monday, January 20, 1997 Location: Hesburgh Library, Room 222 Time: 7:00 p.m. 
Bring Checkbook, and Health Insurance Info. 
Spring Semester $285 (1 lesson per week with some open riding sessions per semester) 
Notre Dame, serving in that position for I(, years. 
Bergin is the author of' sever­al articles and reports on eco­nomic growth and development which have appeared in a vari­ety of' scholarly and popular publications, and he has served as a consultant to numerous businesses, government agen­cies, and educa.tional institu­tions. 
Bergin and his wife, Barbara Barrett, were married in 1954. They have four children. 
-
-
-

Celebrate a friend's birthday with an Observer ad. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents Guest Artists 
The Oberlin Consort of Viols 
playing works by William Byrd, Orlando Gibbons William Lawes and Henry Purcell 
8 pm Monday, January 20 18th Century Gallery, Snite Museum ofArt 
Tickets: $5 General Admission, $2 Students/Senior Citizens For more information call 631-6201 
4 
to support 
4 
to assi1t 

4 
.to exphwe common issues ofbeing gay or les~ian at Notre Dame 
Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group 
Tuesday, January 21 
for time and location ofmeeting, call631~8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Father Tom Gaughan, C.S;C. Sister Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
-~---------~ 
Monday, January 20, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Ketchum earns appointment as ombudsperson 
New post entails hearing, advising harassment victims 
By RACHEL RICHMOND News Writer 
In the beginning of the 1996­97 school year, University President Father Edward Malloy honored Lloyd Ketchum by selecting him for the position of Ombudsperson for Discriminatory llarassment. 
Ombuds, Ketchum said, is a Scandinavian word for an advocate or someone out­side the sys­tem. 

Ketchum
Ketchum is the person a student or faculty member can approach in order to file complaints regarding dis­crimination between students, between faculty members, or between students and faculty members. His office, Ketchum commented, is a "safe place to go and talk to someone" when a person on campus encounters a problem of a discriminatory nature. 
If a student or faculty member 


The Observer 
is accepting applications for: 
1997-1998 Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Liz Foran by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 24, 1997. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Liz Foran at 631-4542, or stap by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
is uncomfortable going straight to the administration with a problem, that person can see Ketchum. 
He listens to the problem, giv­ing the individual advice and understanding and informing the individual of his or her options. Ketchum serves only as an advocate and does not actu­ally attempt to solve the prob­lem. 
The next step involves decid­ing whether or not to go to administration officials to file a formal complaint. Ketchum pointed out that the specific pro­cedures are outlined in both DuLac and the faculty hand­book. Once a complaint is filed and brought before the adminis­tration, Ketchum can act as an advocate for the harassed per­son. All information Ketchum receives and the help he gives are strictly confidential. 
Crankin' out the blues 

• 

Leave the driving to us. 



Coming soon from Student Government 
UNIYEIISITY Of NOTRE DAME STun• NT GnVflftwrNT 

page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 20, 1997 
Tsongas reDleDlbered for 'coDlDlOD touch' 
By DAVE HOWLAND 
Associated Press Writer 

LOWELL, Mass. 
Paul Tsongas never lost the common touch as U.S. senator or presidential front-runner, colleagues said Sunday of the 
man who blended old­fashioned lib­eralism with economic pragmatism. 
Tsongas, who beat cancer and 


went on to Tsongas 

become the Democratic presidential front­runner briefly in 1992, died Saturday of pneumonia. He was 55. 
President Clinton asked a crowd at a Democratic National Committee pre-inau­gural gathering to "say a prayer of gratitude" for Tsongas' service to the American people. 
"That is citizenship in the best sense," Clinton said Sunday. "Our country is deeply indebted to him for having had the courage to stay active in public life and to battle through his own illness and his own pain and his own disap­pointment to continue to fight for America's well-being." 
Tsongas had been hospital­ized since Jan. 3 at Boston's Brigham and Women's hospi­tal with a liver problem related to his cancer treatments, and he later developed pneumonia. He died free of cancer, the hospital said. 
The soft-spoken son of dry cleaners in Lowell, Tsongas was one of the first nationally known Democrats to give the party a pro-business push that became the theme of his presi­dential bid. 
In 1984, a year after he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkins' lymphoma, Tsongas ruled out a second Senate campaign to spend more time with his wife, Niki, and their three daugh­ters. 
"On their deathbed, no one ever said, 'I wish I had spent more time with my business,"' he said of the decision chroni­cled in his book "Heading Home." 
Having lost his own mother when. he was a small child, Tsongas said he went out of his way to create experiences that would leave his daughters with vivid, fond memories. The idea, he said, was to "pour yourself into your children so when you're not around, you're still around." 
After his failed run for the presidency, he never ventured far from public service, serving on a commission aimed at ensuring the proper develop­ment of Cape Cod and heading the state Board of Regents of Higher Education. 
After undergoing an experi­mental type of bone marrow transplant, Tsongas declared in 1986 he was cancer-free. Five years later, he became the first Democrat to challenge President Bush. 
Tsongas' blend of liberalism and economic pragmatism caught on long enough to give him a brief lead over then-Gov. Clinton of Arkansas. Clinton, though, soon bowled over all of the challengers and beat President Bush, partly with a focus on economic issues simi­lar to Tsongas'. 
After leaving the race, Tsongas joined former U.S. Sen. Warren Rudman, R-N.H., to form the Concord Coalition, a public interest group focus­ing attention on the nation's economic problems. 
"There were many days we traveled together that Paul Tsongas did not feel well, but he was determined to not only fight the disease, but to fight for what he believed in until he no longer could, and that is remarkable," Rudman said. 
Clinton recalled his encoun­ters with Tsongas in 1992 on the campaign trail in New Hampshire. 


JUNIORS: ARE YOU PREPARED FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS? 
NOT SURE ... A TTEND THE PANEL DISCUSSION ON 
"PREP ARlNG FOR SUMMER INTERNSHIP INTERVIEWS IN THE INVESTMENT BANKING INDUSTRY" 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1997 4:00 ·5:00p.m. ROOM 126, DEBARTOLO HALL 

SPONSORED flY CAREER AND PI.AC"EME~T SERVICES 
Balloonist ends transglobal flight 
By PAUL DRISCOLL 
Associated Press Writer 

CHICAGO 
Lacking enough fuel to make it across the Pacific Ocean, bal­loonist Steve Fossett decided on Sunday that halfway would have to be good enough in his attempt to fly nonstop around the world. 
The 52-year-old Chicago secu­rities trader planned to land his huge silver balloon, Solo Spirit, somewhere in India early Monday, U.S. time. 
"It's been a fantastic flight from a lot of different angles," said Doug Blount, one of Fossett's ground crew assigned to tracking the balloon. 
The adventurer took off Jan. 13 from St. Louis and has eclipsed by several thousand miles his own world distance ballooning record, 5,435 miles traveled on a 1995 flight from Seoul, Korea, to Canada. 
He had hoped to become the first balloonist to fly nonstop around the globe but conceded from the start that it was a long shot. 
Floating at 20,000 feet above India on Sunday, Fossett and his supporters back in the Midwest plotted a landing before he began passing over the rugged mountains of Southeast Asia or the Pacific Ocean. 
"There's enough fuel for a couple of days, but that would put him out over the Pacific, and I don't think he wants to try a water landing," Blount said. 
Fossett had lifted off with 700 gallons of propane fuel in tanks around his capsule, enough he had hoped to circumnavigate the planet. 
His ground crew was unable to explain why he ran short. 
"That's a big mystery to everybody here," Blount said from the team's headquarters at Loyola University in Chicago. "We just don't know. There are a bunch of different theories." 
The crew has kept in touch with the balloonist by computer, although they lost communica­tions for several hours early Sunday. 

Mi&& -A -Mea\ 'i>ign-UPf» ranua"'i 2.0 ~ 2.1 
'5ign-up in the-dining ha\\5 on Januari ~o r..r ~1. Bi f>igning­up, iOU agre-e-not to e-at dinne-r on 1hur£>dai, Januari '30. For e-ac.\1 me-a\ mif>f>e-d, Notre-Dame-Food '5e-rvic.e-5 wi\\ make-a donation to '5pe-c.ia\ 0\impic.f>. 
vu11un::: 1uu c..a earn pointf, for ~our LNO team ~ f,igning-up for thif, 
jf,f, -A -Mea\! 
Frida~. Januaq '31, 1q£f7 •l:oo 'PM -4:oo 1\M • Jo~e-e Center • (p?I-(QIOO All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Wm Donated by (J:~ 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday,January 20, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Festivities precede Clinton inauguration 
By TERENCE HUNT Chelsea. 
INAUGURATION

Associated Press Writer "You're three of the coolest 
Inaugural events in Washington, D.C. 
people I know," co-host WASHINGTON Whoopi Goldberg cooed to the On the eve of his second Clintons. The star-studded 
rti'A Official public events for the inauguration of Bill Clinton and AI Gore. 
inauguration, President guest list also featured 
Clinton celebrated with excit­Mikhail Baryshnikov, Candice ed supporters Sunday and Bergen, Aretha Franklin and mused, "maybe this will be Michael Douglas. 
better the second time Clinton will be the first around." Bundled against icy Democrat since Franklin D. cold, tens of thousands of visi­Roosevelt to hold the White tors thronged House for the capital for two terms. parties, music 'Jhope every day for But unlike 
and fun. his fresh
the next four years 
Eager to start four recreate the you will be immensely years ago enthusiasm of w h e n
proud of what you did 
four years Democrats 
to make this day come
ago, Clinton con trolled urged revelers about.' both houses to have a good Bill Clinton of Congress, time. "I hope the presi­every day for dent begins the next four years you will be his second term facing an immensely proud of what you unfriendly Republican House did to make this day come and Senate as well as legal "' ~' Location , 
about," he told a Democratic and ethics investigations that National Committee brunch. could ensnare his administra­
At noon Monday, repeating tion. the ritual that opened his In an interview, the presi­presidency, Clinton will stand dent said he hoped his inau­before hundreds of thousands gural address will set a tone of people at the west front of "that will help flush the poi­the Capitol and recite the 35-son out of the atmosphere and word oath of office. Vice get people to thinking about President AI Gore will take his the folks that sent us all oath minutes before the presi­here." dent. Gathered with supporters, 
The capital was alight with Clinton recalled "the darkest parties on inauguration eve. days of '94 and '95" after The biggest of all was a lav­Democrats were devastated by 
ish, Hollywood-style gala for Republican victories that gave the president and Hillary them control of Congress. Rodham Clinton at USAir Even then, he believed his Arena. They brought along presidency would get a second their 16-year-old daughter, chance, he said. 






Saturday, January 18 --.-----------------.--------­
Day one of "An American Journey," a two-day celebration 
The Mall (10a.m.)
0 "Harmony in America" 

focusing on America's strength, spirit, and community. 
Throughout the District (6 p,m)

Fireworks display. 
f) "Sharing tile Light" 

A technical run-through of the nationally-televised presidential 
USAirArena
E) "An American Gala" 

inaugural gala that takes place Sunday night. 
Andover. Md. {7:30p.m) 
Sunday, January 19 

• ,j . 
The Mall (11 a.m)

Day two of "An American Journey." 
8 "Celebrating the Journey" 
USAirArena
(i)lnaugural Gala 

Musical performances. 
Andover, Md. (5 p.m.) 
Monday, January 20 

Oath of office for the president and vice president, 
West Front of the U.S. Capitol 
(i)Jnauguration Ceremony 

inaugural address. 
(11:30a.m) 
Capitol to the White House
0 Presidential Inaugural Parade 

Follows traditional route along Pennsylvania Avenue. 
(2p,m) 
AP 

FIRST TIME EVER AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME!! OVER 2, 000 IMAGES!! 
MOVIES-ART-ROCK-HUMOR-PERSONALITIES-AND MORE!!! 



Van Gogh-Starry Night
Photographs 



Munch-The Scream 
The Accolade 
John ColtraneThe Kiss-Hotel DeVille 

Monday-Friday, January 20-24 Notre Dame Room-2nd Floor LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 9:30am-5:30pm 
Sponsored by LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 




Monday, January 20, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• RWANDA 

American wounded in rebel assault 
By CHRIS TOMLINSON 
Associated Press Writer 

RUHENGERI, Rwanda 
Aid workers packed to leave this northwestern town Sunday after Hutu militants executed three of their Spanish col­leagues and wounded an American in the most serious rebel assault in Rwanda in more than two years. 
The victims of Saturday night's attack on three aid ollices were medical volunteers with the Spanish branch of Doctors of the World. Three Rwandan soldiers also died. There was no report of casual­ties from the other two aid groups hit -Doctors Without Borders and Save the Children. 
With Hutu militants resuming their attacks and beginning to target foreigners, what had appeared to be a peaceful return of more than a million Hutus from 2 1/2 years in exile has turned violent. 
Nitin Madhav, 28, of Pittsburgh, was shot in the leg during the attack. Doctors amputated his leg above the knee and flew Madhav to Nairobi, Kenya, for further treatment. 
Madhav, a program director, was on his first assignment and had been in Ruhengeri only five days, said Dr. Brooks Taylor, regional medical officer for the 
U.S. Embassy in Nairobi. 

"I want to go home," Madhav said as he was put into an ambulance at the Nairobi air­field. Taylor said Madhav may be flown to the United States in a few days, depending on his condition. 
Fearing more violence, some aid workers in Ruhengeri loaded their possessions into trucks and moved to the capital Kigali, 60 miles to the south­east. Doctors of the World said it was suspending operations in northwestern Rwanda. 
"It's an immense tragedy for us ... a terrible barbarity," Concha Colomo, the organiza­tion's deputy chairwoman, said in Madrid. 
Other agencies have also expressed outrage and are con­sidering closing down their operations. The British branch of Save the Children, CARE and at least eight other agencies left Ruhengeri Sunday. 
Malou Nozeman, spokes­woman for the Dutch arm of Doctors Without Borders, said the attack reminded her of the slayings last month of six Red Cross workers in Russian republic of Chechnya. 
"It is very, very tragic," Nozeman said. 



LAST CALL! 

APPLICATIONS DUE JANUARY 22 AT THE CSC 
esc 
. .. 
.• ­

Info Night Monday January 20 6:00-6:30 p.m. at the esc 
Interview now! 
$1700 Tuition Scholarship 3 Theology credits 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY Enroll now in CBS102 
Sessions Will Resume Weekly meetings start Tuesday, January 21 at 7:00p.m. sharp Campus Ministry Conference Room in Badin Hall. 
All students welcome Meetings last for one hour Read Gospel of Matthew, Chapter 22 Topic: The Greatest Commandment 
Join in the Fellowship after the Bible Study 
Fr. AI D'Alonzo, CSC -Director 

Bring your own 8i6fe or one will be provided. 

(?MPUSMINIS1RY 


Arafat: Hebron deal to bring peace with Israel 
By SAMAR ASSAD 
Associated Press Writer 
HEBRON, West Bank 
Yasser Arafat returned to Hebron for the first time in more than 30 years Sunday and joined 60,000 Palestinians in celebrat-
,..----.......,-----..~----,.........., ing the han­dover of the last West Bank city from Israeli control. 
In a concil­iatory ges­ture toward Arafat Jewish set­tlers, he said the accord ­which gives Palestinians con­trol of 80 percent of the city and Israel 20 percent -was a new step toward peace. 
"With this Hebron deal, we have signed peace with all the Israeli people. This is some­thing new," he said from the balcony of Hebron's new Palestinian police station, for­merly the Israeli military head­quarters. 
The agreement on Hebron is the first fruit of months of bit­ter wrangling between Arafat and the government of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, long a critic of the peace process begun by his dovish predecessors. 
Arafat, whose government took control of four-fifths of Hebron on Friday, had not been in the city since 1965, when he org11;nized guerrilla cells to fight Israel. 
The crowd waved Palestinian flags and greeted him with chants of "With our soul and blood, we sacrifice for you, Abu Ammar," Arafat's nom de guerre. 
"I declare Hebron a liberated city," Arafat announced. He leaned forward over the crowd, making victory signs with both hands. 
"Seeing him -I thought my heart would burst," 50-year­old Suleiman Jabari said. 
Arafat's conciliatory words contrasted sharply with a speech by the Palestinian secu­rity chief on Saturday. Jibril Rajoub accused the 500 settlers who live in the city of 130,000 Palestinians of fomenting "hate and violence and terror." 
He suggested Hebron would be better off without the set-tiers, saying "they are big stones on our chest, and we have to take them off." 
Israel condemned Rajoub's speech as inciting violence. 

Netanyahu welcomed Arafat's words, telling CNN he was "struck by the fact that his tone is different." 
"I certainfy would like to have the Palestinians and Israelis strike up a friendship. I think the test is Hebron," Netanyahu said. 
Settler spokesman David Wilder, however, said that if Arafat were serious about con­ciliation, he would fire Rajoub. 
He called it "despicable" that Netanyahu had given the PLO leader control of the biblical city and said Arafat's visit marked "a day of national mourning for the Hebron set­tlers." 
Arafat flew into Hebron ·on Sunday afternoon, waving to the crowd from the window of his helicopter. Wearing his black-and-white headscarf and green khaki uniform, he sat atop the open sunroof of the car, reaching into the crowd to shake hands and throw kisses en route to the police station. 
Later, he toured part of the city and visited city hall, where supporters slaughtered two calves in his honor. 
Arafat said the Palestinians' next goal is to take control of the 70 percent of the West Bank still in Israeli hands ­mostly rural areas -and establish an independent Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital. 
"I call on all of you to come together to build this indepen­dent Palestinian state," he said. "We will continue until Jerusalem." 
Arafat thanked President Clinton, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Jordanian King Hussein for their help in reaching the Hebron agree­ment. He told CNN later that he and Netanyahu are now "friends ... and partners in the peace process." 
In an early snag, the Israeli army delayed supplying Palestinian police with subma­chine guns because officers had been seen with stolen Israeli guns, Israel army radio reported Sunday. The army and Palestinian officials did not comment on the report. 

Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
The Observer 
Saint Mary's Editor is accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's News Editor 
Please call Caroline at 631-4540 for information. 

VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 Monday, January 20, I 997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.0.1,3ox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ._ ..................... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ..................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Mich:tel Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor .................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weher Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sai~n Mary's College. lr does not nece~sarily reAecr rhe policies of the administra­cion of either instimcion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present rhc views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542. Business Office 631-531.1 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-454I Advertising 631·6900/8840 Sports 63I-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63I -88.~9 News/Photo 63I-5323 Office Manager 63I-7471 


Accenr/Sainr Mary's  63 I ·4540  Fax  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  Viewpoint  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  


• WiNTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
I realize that I'm not altogether that qualified to write a column on aging since in the greater scheme of things, I have not done much of it. Nonetheless, the unavoidable reality of growing steadily older has occupied many thoughts in recent weeks as I tried to come to terms with impending college graduation and, God forbid, subsequent 

Chris Kratovil 


adulthood. 
I suppose that we all tend to think of ourselves as a few years younger than we actually are. Jokes about people "celebrating their 39th birthday for the eight time" are common enough to be cliched, while cosmetic products designed to combat the tangible effects of aging (even among those who aren't that old) are a multi-billion dollar indus­try. Essentially there seems to exist a sort of lag or gap between the passage of time in the quantified, absolute sense of the calendar and the mind's percep­tion of time's flow; we age continuously but realize this only intermittently. 
Our inability to internally gauge or own aging gives rise to the need for like birthdays, anniversaries and, yes, grad­uations. These events help us to recog­nize the passage of calendar time and to remind us that we are steadily, albeit often imperceptibly aging. For example, how many people at their birthday din­ner remark something along the lines of "Wow, I can't believe I'm already __ years old"? These sort of events serve as artificial "waypoints" which we have positioned in the time stream to help us keep track of life's temporal progres­
631-6927 E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

sian. Without these "waypoints" the only way to sense one's own aging would seemingly be through physical changes we experience in ourselves, and that would be wretchedly depressing. 
But even in a culture that encourages the honoring of numerous life events as temporal "waypoints," it is easy to lose track of time. Of course this situation grows more pronounced as we delve into adulthood. For example, little kids are acutely aware of their exact age and wear it like a badge of honor; it's not enough to simply state how many years old you are since half-years and quar­ter-years are considered admissible and relevant. For children the wait between birthdays seems interminable -person­ally speaking, I'm quite sure that I was six roughly twice as long as I was twenty -and summers border on the endless. 
Adolescence speeds time up some­what, but only slightly. The wait for one's 16th birthday and the accompany­ing driver's license is as much an ordeal as the countdown to any childhood birth anniversary. To a teenager, the passage of each year seemingly brings with it new privileges, rights and responsibili­ties; driving, dating, staying out later and later with your friends, those first few illicit beers, the search for a college. Needless to say, the net effect of all this is to slow the perceived passage of time. Once again speaking from a personal perspective, my four years of high school were, as gauged in internally kept time, easily double the length of my college experience. 
College time is more complex than either childhood time or adolescent time since it regularly speeds up or slows down depending on the situation. For example, this past Christmas break ­too long to be steadily entertaining yet too short to get a job -set a new record on my mental clock for the slow passage of time. In sharp contrast to this stands the semester I spent abroad in London which, if measured in calendar time, took about five months but seemingly lasted only a couple of weeks on my internal chronome­ter. Yes, college time seems to shift gears regularly between the place of a Ferrari on the Autobahn and the speed of an Amish buggy out for a Sunday drive. · And now I'm faced with the prospect of setting my internal clock onto adult time. This impending reality hit me like a 
slap in the face L-----------------------------------------------~ over Christmas break as 1 watched the years from now in a situation I don't first of my high school friends get mar-want to be in. Maybe I should just take it ried, congratulated several other friends on faith that just as each new year to on finding gainful employment in the this point in my life has carried with it real world and plucked a couple of gray new challenges, new insights and deep­hairs ofT my own scalp. At the reception ened friendships, adulthood will bring after my friend's wedding, a cynical more of the same-call it "best is yet to associate kept trying to convince that come" approach. "this is it from here on out... life is about To this point in my life -and I sus­to become one long work week inter-poet many of yours as well -I've rupted by a cyele of weddings, baby always had a fairly good "outline" to showers and funerals." I'm not sure that work from. For example, from early I entirely accept that read on adulthood, ehildhood on I knew that I would go to but the prospect of completely losing and graduate from a good college; it was track of time while submerged in the just a matter of "filling in" which one it workaday world does frighten the hell would be. Well, college graduation prot­out of me. I suppose that watching one's ty much marks the end of my outline ­life turn into some sort of perversely whatever I come up with after that is prolonged Dilbert strip is our genera-fresh material. Having this blank sheet tion's collective worst case scenario _ of paper to work with renders these the question is how to avoid that. next few years both magical and intimi-
Of course I do not have the answer to dating. that question -as I said at the outset 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts
I'm still a little underqualilied to write a 
and Letters major. Next year he will be
column on aging. Perhaps having heard 
attending school
all of the horror stories about people law at either 
Georgetown or the University of Texas.
who get stuck in jobs that they despise 
/lis column appears every other
for decades will help to avoid that trap. 
Monday.

Perhaps making a conscious effort not to lose track of time will prevent "waking up" (to invoke a current buzzword) 15 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Irefuse to accept the 
idea that the "isness" of 
man's present nature makes 
him morally incapable of 
reaching up for the "ought­
ness" that forever confronts 
him.' 

-Martin Luther King, Jr. 

-----~-----------,--~.---~----------~----~----------~----~~--------~----~-----------------­

Monday, January 20, 1997 page 11 
Evita: Patriot or Profiteer? 
EVITA Directed by: Alan Parker Starring: Madonna and Antonio Banderas 

By MARK TORMA Acccnr Movie Critic 
A
mbivalent -that's what I've been. As far as Madonna goes, that is. 
My feelings towards her have always been: good for her, but I really don't want her to be the world's image of America. Having grown up in the eight­ies, I realize just how inevitable that probably was -I don't know if anything could have stopped her media jugger­naut. ever. As a result. of course, there arc now millions of people overseas (I've met a fowl who expect every American girl they meet to be a Material Girl. I, for one, am very glad that they are usually disappointed. 
Now. Madonna has gotten the role she has dosired for years. She is Eva Peron, -the legendary, almost mythic "Evita" of Argentina -and my feelings, still, are ambivalent. However, I can't think of a more appropriate attitude towards the woman playing Evita, because after seeing the Broadway musical, which Alan Parker has now very faithfully reproduced on screen, the viewer should realize that ambivalence is the requisite attitude toward Eva Peron as well. 
"Evita," then, has the potential to be an extremely frustrating movie. It's mes­sage'? No one knows what it's truly say­ing about Eva Peron (ditto for the musi­cal). The story? Entirely sung-a possi­ble point of discomfiture for those not very familiar with movie musicals. Madonna's voice? Not as classy as Patty LuPone. Antonio Banderas'? Simply not as good as Mandy Patinkin's. 
So what could possibly save this movie'? Well. my apologies for jerking you around, but this movie never need­ed salvation -all the above points of possible frustration for the viewer are actually assets to the film, to the credit of the director and of the stars. Some might be unimpressed by Banderas' vocal accomplishments, but he held his own quite well (as someone reminded me the other day, "he sang in 'Mambo Kings,' too," so it's not as if he hasn't done it before). In fact, at several pas­sages in the score he hits a greater emo­tional nerve than Mandy Patinkin did. Banderas is a great counterpart to Madonna's performance, a gritty, cyni­cal voice of the future stripping the gloss from her angelic pretense. Together with Jonathan Pryce, who ably plays Argentinian leader Juan Peron (and who does have Broadway experience), Banderas successfully makes the movie 
more than a one-woman show. 

As for Ms. Ciccone, mother of Lourdes: she did sound like she was just cutting another album, but to her credit she was certainly not "just playing herself,'' as some accusations would have it. I have a hard time finding anything in common between Carlos Leon, father of Lourdes and personal trainer, and Juan Peron, leader of millions -Madonna was clearly exhibiting some acting tal­ent, and successfully reached the emo­tional levels that the "Evita" story demands. Her performance doesn't quite merit the Oscar nomination that she expects, but it was more than ade­quate, and I eagerly await the announcement of her next musical pro­ject in Hollywood. "Evita" shouldn't be the only role she ever sings on the silver screen -and if it is, then she definitely doesn't deserve that Academy Award. 
Although Madonna gets the lion's share of attention for "Evita," the film makers are the ones who deserve it. As far as I am concerned, director Alan Parker has done a whale of a job, single­handedly reviving the style of the grand movie musicals (there are bits of "West Side Story" and "The King and I" in here), yet not skimping on modern inno­vation. Fans of "Evita" should not be 

General Hospital Update 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL 
Accent General Hospital Correspondent 
W
elcome back, GH fans ...we may have taken a vacation, but our friends in Port Charles sure didn't, so onto the action: Katharine refuses Mac's marriage proposal, considering their former cou­pledom now broken up (a notion she forgot to tell our favorite police commissioner, as HE thought their trou­bled relationship was going full-steam ahead). 
Brenda tells Sonny goodbye for the final time (is that the SIXTH time she's used those exact words?!) Sonny realizes his ladylove is clueless about what she really wants, so he goes to Lily's grave and leaves his wedding ring to her so that he can pursue a new romance with Brenda. (Hey, Sonny, the ring never stopped you before, you know ... ) 
After Sonny's touching gesture, however, a mysterious man emerges from the bushes and unburies the ring ... then begins sending Brenda gifts. She thinks they are from her beloved husband, who has just proposed for the third time. Some jeweler is certainly raking in the bucks from their union. Who's the new stalker, we won­der? Kevin? Dorman? Lily's father back from the dead? Brenda blames Sonny for sending the presents and goes after him, but our gallant mobster has to gag and drag her out of the room so that Robin can surprise Jason on his "first" birthday. 
Miranda refuses. then accepts Jax's offer of a settle­ment; she'll need the money to pay for and decorate Lucy's old apartment, which she moves into permanently. Miss Coe now resides in the lighthouse with her Doc, who proclaims himself on the road to Wellville, even as he hides letters he's receiving from his "dead" father. Buck up, Lucy; at least they're not from Ryan. 
Stefan continues to lurk around Katharine, even calling a specialist and leaving his bed to see her. And what a bed it is, with all that orange satin ...it looks like a bordel­lo, and speaking of, what HAS he been feeding Bobbie? She was never so buxom, so either she discovered the Miracle Bra over Christmas or she had a little elective surgery. Carly discovers that Bobbie was a hooker and can't wait to throw it in her face; such mean-spirited joy horrifies Tony, who clearly expected better (?!) When he calls her on it, Carly accuses him of defending Bobbie ... a'hd hey, she's got a point. Tony, you cheated on your wife and she left you; at least have the decency to back up your bimbo. 
Speaking of backing DOWN, the residents of the Port seem to have lost their fear of Stefan. First Mac blows him off, then little early matches him glare for glare, before Cousin Alexis tells him to stay away from Katharine or else ... and Stefan backs down. Go Alexis; she had a big week, settling Kevin's class action suit and then bonding with him, serving Dorman with his restraining order, holding her own with the Q's, spending time with Nikolas and going to Emily's birthday party. She's what all the other GH women aren't: decisive, smart and witty. Who doesn't love her cracks about Clan Cassadine: "My uncle tried to freeze the world. Top that." She never bluffs and is definitely no Felicia; if someone stalked HER, she'd shoot them with her concealed weapon. 
Felicia has yet another bad week. She tries to comfort Mac after Katharine's big "NO" by br!/ging up why THEY broke up ...hide the pills! Then, her lover the shrink begins taking calls on his cell phone and rushing off to treat a patient -the presumed dead Lesley Webber. When the call comes and Felicia answers, Luke hangs up, prompting her suspicions. Tom assures her that every­thing is OK, but she's perplexed nevertheless. 
Alan is so enraged by Dorman that a knife in the back cannot be far behind. Add to that the fact that he and Monica are so wrapped up that they no longer notice what Emily, a.k.a.. Krusty the Klown, is up to. Perhaps they should be a bit more observant of her relationship with Matt the Druggie Boy, who gave her a joint for her birthday, right in front of the police commissioner, who, as we all know already, is clueless ... stay tuned! 
Email Genevieve Morrill with YOUR GH comments at morr8584@saintmarys.edu 

disappointed in the storyline -all the glory, all the scandal has been pre­served, with no holds barred and no punches pulled -and those unfamiliar with the story of "Evita" will be more than satisfied. The story unfolds clearly through both the familiar lyrics and the luscious settings that Parker, obviously free from the limitations of the stage, liberally splashes across the screen. The grandeur of Evita's life -the crowds, the demonstrations, the palaces, the funeral -is probably the most impres­sive display in the movie. 
Accompanying this visual majesty is a score which seems even more vital than the original, with several new passages and guitar riffs that add a certain "sleaze" factor, a hearty reminder of the path Miss Eva Duarte had to take to make it big in the world. BUT... just as the viewer starts making up his or her mind, the dancing of the tango, the Argentinian dance, offers a reminder of the dignity of the Argentinian people. They claimed Evita as their saint and savior because she dared to call them her own, so what can anybody make of this woman? Was she patriot or profi­teer? The movie offers absolutely no definitive answer -and as frustrating as that can be, it's also part of the fun. 
HEY YOU! 

-
~~~--------------~--------------~·----------------~--~--------------~~-----------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 20, 1997 
•Nfl 

Pack gets hype over Parcells 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW ORLEANS 
A week from now, the world may know some of the other New England Patriots. For now, however, the Super Bowl is the Green Bay Packers against Bill Parcells. 
As the teams arrived Sunday for the beginning of a week of hype, Green Bay already had assumed its role for the Jan. 26 title game -this year's version of America's team. New England was, well, Parcells' team. 
In a sporting goods store adjacent to the headquarters hotel, cheeseheads were stacked to the ceiling next to rack after rack of green jerseys with Favre's No. 4 and White's No. 92. There was one T-shirt on sale featuring Drew Bledsoe, Terry Glenn and Curtis Martin. 
In fact, someone could probably make a mint selling items with a tuna on them. "Tuna" is the nickname bestowed on Parcells by his players when he led the New York Giants to Super Bowl victories in 1986 and 1990. 
Parcells is only the second coach (Don Shula with Baltimore and Miami is the other) to lead two different franchises to the Super Bowl. And if he wins as a two-touch­down underdog, he will become the first coach to win with two franchises and the one who broke a 12-game AFC losing streak. 
He is also part of the NFL's other postsea­son spectacle -coaching change. His con­tract expires after the Super Bowl, and five coachless franchises -and New England owner Robert Kraft-are awaiting his next move. 
"There's a lot of focus on him on on this team," middle linebacker Ted Johnson of the Patriots says of his coach. 
"Just for us to know he knows how this whole thing works is going to help us. This is old hat for him. He knows how to prepare us to be peaking at the right time. He knows how to avoid lapses and he knows how to keep us on the right path 

By contrast, Green Bay coach Mike Holmgren is overshadowed by his stars, particularly Favre and White, although Holmgren has been to Super Bowls as an assistant with the 49ers. 
Favre, who has been the NFL's MVP the last two seasons, grew up in Kiln, Miss., just 50 miles east of New Orleans along the Mississippi Gulf coast. Dozens of reporters already have made the pilgrimage there, noting, among other things, that a Brett Favre doll made of cheese is on sale for $5. 
White, the NFL's career sack leader, is in his first Super Bowl after 12 seasons -a sentimental journey if there ever was one. 
It also vindicates White's decision to sign with the Packers for $17 million over four years in 1993, a move that seemed odd in view of his stated desire to find a city where he could practice an inner-city ministry. "God has his plan to get Reggie White to the Super Bowl," says White, an ordained min­ister. 
But both teams really embody the theme of this year's game-new faces. 
In the past half-dozen Super Bowls, the 49ers, Cowboys and Bills returned with familiar casts. And had Denver, the AFC chalk, made it instead of New England, the centerpiece would have been John Elway in his fourth try for a championship ring. 
But only six players have been to a Super Bowl before -four Patriots and two Packers. 
The Patriots include three of Parcells' ex­Giants -offensive linemen William Roberts and Bob Kratch, and Dave Meggett, the all­purpose return man and third-down run­ning back. Wide receiver Shawn Jefferson was with San Diego two seasons ago. 
The only Packers to have played in a Super Bowl are Jim McMahon, the backup quarterback, and wide receiver Don Beebe, who was on the Bills' 1990-1993 squads. 
McMahon was with the Bears when they made trip to New Orleans 11 years ago and beat the Patriots 46-10. He was the punky quarterback who paraded down Bourbon Street, mooned a helicopter and allegedly impugned the city's women. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAlL 

Rodriguez signs for $6.65 million 
Associated Press Writer 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
All-Star catcher Ivan Rodriguez and the Texas Rangers reached agreement Sunday on the richest one-year contract ever in baseball, a $6.65 million deal that enabled the sides to avoid salary arbitration. 
Rodriguez, 25, is a five-time All-Star and has won five straight Gold Gloves. 
He hit .300 last season with 19 homers, 86 RBis and 116 runs scored. His 47 dou­bles set a major league record for catchers. 
Rodriguez has led big league catchers for the last two years in throwing out potential basestealers. He nailed 51.1 percent of the runners last season. 

The -$6.65 million contract surpassed the previous high for a one-year deal, set by Toronto's Joe Carter at $6.5 million for 1997. The highest per-year average over is $11 million, set by Albert Belle when he signed a five-year, $55 million contract as a free agent with the Chicago White Sox. 
"We view this as a stepping stone to hopefully what will be a long-term deal," said Rodriguez's attorney, Jeff Moorad. "This allows us to continue discussions without the pressure of the arbitration process." 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 


Holtz coaches North in Hula Bowl showcase 
By BEN DiPIETRO 
A.sociatcd Press Writer 
HONOLULU 

Andy Russ came to the Hula Bowl as a punter. Four field goals later he may have earned himself a shot as an NFL kicker. 
The Mississippi State punter, pressed into kicking duties for the All-Star game, booted four field goals and was named most valu­able player in the South's 26-13 victory Sunday at Aloha Stadium. 
''I'd like to get a shot at least," Huss said after kicking field goals of 42, 47, 28 and 31 yards. "It's great to be able to come out here and kick four field goals. I was hoping to make one or two in this game, but to make all four is unbelievable. 
"I didn't have a great punting game. Now that they saw I can kick, maybe I, can make it as a punter and kicker." 
USC quarterback Brad Otton and Fresno State's Jim Arellanes passed for touchdowns as the South took a 20-0 halftime lead. The South's defense overpowered an undermanned North offensive line missing three players and sacked North quarterback Steve Sarkisian of Brigham Young four times. 
The North played with just five offensive linemen, as three players from the unit had to be scratched, ineluding first-team All-America Chris Naeole of Colorado. 
"It affected us. We had five offensive lineman that played the whole ballgame. We only had four defensive backs," North coaeh Lou Holtz said. "It affected us in the kicking game. They punted the ball and it rolled and we didn't field it and then they got good yardage on their punt return game, and that had a lot to do with field position." 
The North also was missing Colorado quarterback Koy Detmer, leaving lloltz without a needed offensive weapon. 

"{Injuries) may have allowed our defense to dominate up front, and that possibly could have been the difference," South coach Bobby Bowden said. "I thought our whole defense played real solid." 
Heisman Trophy winner Danny Weurffel of Florida, bothered by a sore right shoulder, played just the opening series for the South. He fumbled a snap and then made a bad pitch that was fumbled out of bounds. 
On the South's second drive, Otton led a 13-play drive that led to a 42-yard field goal by Russ and a 3-0 South lead. 
Otton then found a wide open Freddie Jones in the middle of the field, and the North Carolina tight end rumbled into the end zone, giving tho South a 10-0 lead. 
A 29-yard punt return by Dedric Ward of Northern Iowa, and Texas running back Shon Mitchell's 18­yard run led to a 10-yard scoring pass from Arellanes to Florida State's Wayne Messarn to make it 17-0. 
Huss' 4 7 -yard field goal as time expired upped the South's lead to 20-0. 
The North opened the second half with an onsides kick, but the South recovered and Arellanes led a seven-play drive that ended with a 28-yard field goal by Russ to make it 23-0. 
Huss kicked a 31-yarder to cap a 13-play drive and close out the scoring for the South. 
Sarkisian rallied the North to two late scores. Hunning back Archie Amerson from Division II Northern Arizona burst through the middle untouched for a 38­yard touchdown for the North's first score with 12:39 to play. 
Sarkisian then hit Stanford's Brian Manning for a 17-yard TD with four minutes left, and was driving for another touchdown 
when time ran out.  
"Our offensive line  was  real  
tired," Sarkisian. "I  was  real  
tired."  

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre 
• Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
- ILOST & FOUNDI  Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa  FOR SALE  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Fishing Industry. Many earn up to $4,000+/mo. during peak season. Benefits often include  PERSONAL  Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa  
Beach Hilton $169!  Transportation andfor Room &  Beach Hilton $169!  springbreak­ 
If you picked up my black wool  springbreaktravel.com  1988 Mercury Tracer, 5-spd.  Board. For details:  (206)971-3510  PREGNANT?  travel.com  1-800-678-6386  
coat at the Boat Club on Sunday~  1-800-678-6386  $1,150. Good dependable trans.  ext. A55849  Consider the loving option of  
Please call Kerry at 288-1542,  259-7872.  Adoption. Caring, devoted couple  
I am freezing without it!  Texts  -25% Off!  SUMMER SALES/ADVERTISING  wish to share our love, laughs, and  If you accidently picked up my  
24 Hour Service.  Buy/Seii!Trade.  Add -Bed -Queensize orthopedic  POSITIONS  lives with an infant. Call for profile  black wool coat at the Boat Club  
Found in front of Knott Hall on  Open 7 Days per week  premium mattress set. Never used  University Directories, the nation's  and more info: Andrea and Lee: 1­ on Sunday, please call Kerry at  
Friday, 1/17: Woman's watch. Call  ND at Howard Street  still in package -cost 550 sacrafice  largest publisher of campus tele­ 800-213-3960  288-1542 -I'm freezing without it!  
Amy at 1-7600 to identify/claim.  233-2342  Pandora's Books  175.  (219) 674-2352  phone directories, will be on cam·  
pus January 23 and 24 to recruit  SUMMER JOB FAIR-CCE, Lower  
~-N_o__T_Ic_E_s__~l  j~_F_o_R_RE__N_T__~  4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys­tem, wash/dry, beach v·ball, prime location, 109 N. St. Peter 233-9947  top-notch students to sell yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame directory. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and  Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great  Level-Thursday, January 23 from 1 to 4:30p.m. Discuss summer opportunities; bring copies of your resume.  
CANCUN-PADRE-MAZA TLAN SPRING BREAK'S HOTTEST!  Homes for Rent for 97-98 ADT Security 232-2595  •  public relations. Management and travel opportunities available. For  Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  "SENIORS:  PREPARING FOR  
1-800-328-7513 FREE FOOD, DRINK & PARTY SPECIAL!!!  3 Bedroom $425+dep  WANTED  information on scheduling an inter­view call Murray Dameron at 1-800·  springbreaktravel.com  INTERVIEWS IN THE INVEST­MENT BANKING INDUSTRY"­ 
Up to $200 Discount Coupons on  Available Now 602 1/2 StLouis  743-5556 Ext. 156.  Panel Discussion-Tuesday,  
our Website  Across from Rocco's 232-2595  NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­ January 21, 7:00-8:30  pm, Room  
www .studentadvtrav .com  National Parks hire forestry work­ EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­ SECOND ANNUAL  - 126, DeBartolo Hall.  Sponsored by  
2 bdrms, near campus.  ers, park rangers, firefighters, life­ MENT-Travel Eastern Europe by  CLASS OF  '97 SKI TRIP  Career and Placement Services.  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe.  guards, +volunteer and govern­ teaching basic conversational  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  Paul 232-2794  ment positions. Excellent benefits +  English in Prague, Budapest, or  $45/ticket includes transpo,  
Meals, Parties, & Taxes! Great  bonus potential.  Krakow. Inexpensive Room &  rentals, lift tickets, and hotel.  "JUNIORS:  PREPARING FOR  
Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  Furnished Student Apt. -6 blocks  Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55841  Board + other potential benefits.  Jan 25-26 @ Cascade Mtn. and  INTERVIEWS IN THE INVEST­ 
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  from campus, affordable, clean  Find out how to succeed in thisfield.  hotel in Madison, WI  MENT BANKING INDUSTRY"­ 
springbreaktravel.com  1-bedroom-$265  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­ Call: (206)971-3680 ext. K55844  Panel Discussion-Tuesday,  
Heat and water included  Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico,  Get your ticket @ LaF info desk  Januaray 21, 4:00-5:00 pm, Room  
#1 Mary Kay Cosmetics.  On  755 South Bend Ave.  Caribbean) & earn an excellent  SMC student seeks Female room­ 126, DeBartolo Hall. Sponsored by  
campus, convenient.  Call  (corner of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.)  income in the Cruise & Land-Tour  mate for spring.  cute  ..SPOTS ARE LIMITED'!'•  Career and Placement  Services.  
Margrette 284-5261  deposit, references  Industry. For details, call 1-206­ duplex,garage,own room, 5min  
1-800-582-9320  971-3550 ext.C55845  from campus.271-9843  

page 13


.::.o:-
SPEAiffiRS: 
Mary Rose D'Angelo Associate Professor Department ofTheology · 
Richard McBrien The Crowley-O'Brien-Walter Chair Department ofTheology 
Richard McCormick John A. O'Brien Chair Department ofTheology 
Jean Porter Professor Department of Theology 
Regina Coli, Moderator Professional Specialist Department ofTheology 


Co-sponsored by The Gender Studies Program 
& 


The Department ofTheology 

January 23_, 1997 •. 4:30pm to 6:30pm Room 140 DeBartolo 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, January 20, 1997 
• NHL 


All-Stars showcase offense 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
There was little defense and 
even less checking. The goalies 
were shellshocked. And Wayne 
Gretzky was on his line. 
It was the perfect scenario for 
what probably was Mario 
Lemieux's final appearance in 
the NHL All-Star Game, and he 
didn't disappoint. 
"It's something I'll cherish for 
a long time," said Lemieux, who 
had two goals and an assist 
Saturday in helping the Eastern 
Conference to an 11-7 victory 
over the West. ''I'm glad I got to 
play with Gretzky again." 
Gretzky hopes it won't be his 
last chance to play alongside 
Lemieux, who expects to retire 
after this season. 
"We're trying to talk him into coming back," said Gretzky, whose move to the East's New York Rangers let him be Lemieux's All-Star teammate for the first time. "Maybe the (1998) Olympics. I'm sure who­ever puts the team together could find a place for him." 
A perfect place would be on 
Gretzky's line. 
Saturday's rare pairing of the hockey galaxy's two brightest stars brought back memories of Rendez-Vous '87, when they skated together in the memo­rable matchup between NHL and Russian super teams. 
Each credited the other for 
bringing out his best in that 
series. Gretzky has gone on to 
be the league's all-time scorer 
and Lemieux is the leader in 
goals per game. 
Lemieux's accomplishments 
• A. 
have come despite health prob­lems -Hodgkin's disease and recurring back troubles -that robbed him of prime scoring years. Though he said he feels better than he has in years, Lemieux is growing tired of the grind and the concern about in­juries. 
So it was a special treat for hockey fans everywhere when Super Mario and The Great One combined for a highlight-film goal midway through Saturday's opening period. 
Lemieux knocked the puck away from Oleg Tverdovsky. Gretzky gained control behind the net and fed in front to Lemieux, who flipped the puck over the glove of helpless goalie Patrick Roy. · 
"We're probably not going to see the likes of that again," East defenseman Kevin Hatcher said. "They're probably the two best to ever play the game." 
The assist was Gretzky's only point of the night. That, com­bined with Lemieux's three points, left them tied in the record book as the top scorers in All-Star Game history with 20 points apiece. 
"I think Wayne's going to play a few more years and get back on top," said Lemieux, who at 31 is five years younger than Gretzky. "He'll set a record that will stand." 
If Lemieux does retire this spring, he'll be doing so at the top of his game. He leads the NHL in points (79) and assists (50). 
"Mario's been the Jean Beliveau of our era," East team­mate Mark Messier said, refer­ring to the classy Montreal star of the 1950s and '60s. "Nobody's played with the pure grace, elegance and power that Mario possesses. fie's got a style all his own." 

With Lemieux setting the early tone, the All-Star Game became a typical run-and-gun affair. 
"It's a shootout," he said, "and that's the way it's been for many years." 
This decade's seven starfests have produced an average or 17 goals. 
Going into the '90s, there had never been more than 14 in any All-Star contest. 
Saturday's 18 goals were the third-most ever and provided a stark contrast to what's taking place in the NIIL this stmson. Scoring is down a half-goal a game from a year ago and shutouts are coming at a record pace. 
Montreal's Mark Hecchi and Owen Nolan of the hometown San Jose Sharks each scored three goals. Four players had two apiece: Lemieux, Dale Ilawerchuk, John LeClair and Pavel Bure. 
Rocchi was named MVP to the disappointment of the fans, who favored Nolan even though the West lost. 
The award, however, proba­bly should have gone not to Nolan, not to Recchi, not even to Lemieux. 
East goalie Dominik Hasek was sensational. 
In an otherwise nightmarish game for netminders, the Buffalo standout made 20 third­period saves -most from point-blank range-to keep the East ahead . 
•NBA 

Olajuwon, Rockets hand Bulls 5th loss 
By MICHAEL LUTZ 
Associated Press Writer 

HOUSTON 
llakeem Olajuwon had 32 points and 16 rebounds de­spite his religious fast, and the Houston Rockets closed out the final six minutes with a 19-2 run to defeat the Chicago Bulls 102-86 Sunday. 
The victory snapped Chicago's nine-game winning streak and Houston's four­game losing streak -dating to 1994 -against the Bulls. 
Olajuwon, a Muslim, is ob­serving Hamadan, a period of fasting that including no liq­uids between sun up and sun­down. 
But it didn't seem to slow him down against the Bulls. Olajuwon played the entire third quarter and after taking a brief rest, returned to help put down Chicago's final charge. He played 39 min­utes. 
Clyde Drexler started slow­ly, but finished with 17 points, 11 assists and 10 rebounds for his 23rd career triple-double. 
Michael Jordan, who had 26 points, gave the Bulls their first lead since early in the fourth quarter when he drove for the basket with 7:12 to 
play and drew a foul  from  
Sam Mack.  
Jordan  sank  both  free  

throws and a technical foul called on !lockets coach Hudy Tomjanovich, who thought Jordan should have received the foul. 
That gave Chicago an 84-83 lead, but Olajuwon made four straight free throws to start the !lockets' sharge. 
Kevin Willis, starting for injured Charles Barkley, fol­lowed with a basket, and Mario Elie hit a 3-pointer for a 92-84 lead while the Bulls continued to fade. Both Elie and Olajuwon had eight points during the final run. 
The Bulls played without Dennis Rodman, who was suspended for at least 11 games and fined $25,000 af­ter he kicked a cameraman Wednesday night in Minnesota. 
Barkley sat out the game for the Hockets with a sprained right ankle he received in Thursday night's game against Minnesota. 
The Hockets took a 55-51 halftime lead and built it to 65-55 with 7:18 left in the third quarter. But Steve Kerr hit 11 points in the quarter ­including 3-of-3 3-point shots -and the Bulls cut the deficit to 7 5-7 3 at the start of the fourth quarter. 
Bill Wennington scored 14 points· for the Bulls, but Scottie Pippen was only 2-of­14 from the field and finished with 5 points. 
The Bulls beat the !lockets 110-86 in their first meeting this year on Jan. 11 in Chicago for their worst loss of the season. 
""• 

Homophobia: 




A Christian Perspective 
Guest Speaker: 
The Most Reverend Thomas Gumbleton 
Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit 
Wednesday, January 22 at 7:oop.m. DeBartolo 102 
Reception will follow. All are welcome.
Ill 


Sponsored by The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and the Office of Student Affairs. 
<.v v.) 
Monday, January 20, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
•-NBA 
76ers' Iverson tallies career-high in defeat 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS Even Allen Iverson's best game of the season couldn't enough as Philadelphia lost its slow the 76ers' inexplicable 12th straight game, 111-107 to freefall. the Indiana Pacers. 
Iverson scored a season-high Philadelphia has now lost 22 37 points Sunday, but it wasn't of 23 games despite a talented lineup which includes Iverson, th~ league's top rookie, Jerry Stackhouse and Clarence Weatherspoon. 
Iverson~-~--~ 
had 18 of his points in the fourth quar­ter, sparking a comeback after the 76ers had fallen behind by 25 in the Iverson third period. The speedy guard finished just 9-for-24 from the field, but was 17-of-19 from the foul line. 
"We just didn't come out in the first half and play hard. We've got to start taking the effort we have in the second half and putting it in the first half," Iverson said. 
AU five Indiana starters fin­ished in double figures. Reggie Miller and Rik Smits led the Pacers with 20 points apiece, while Derrick McKey had 17. 
Weatherspoon had 18 points and 10 rebounds for the 76ers, who trailed 77-52 when Indiana's Dale Davis hit a jumper with 5:35 left in the third period. 
But then Iverson brought the 76ers back and the Pacers went nearly five minutes with­out a field goal in the final quarter after Travis Best was forced to leave after spraining the big toe on his left foot. 
"It wasn't complacency. We couldn't stop them. All of a sudden, Iverson gets off and it's tough. We weren't getting starts and they started control­ling the game," Indiana coach Larry Brown said. 
The 76ers came close despite shooting 37 percent from the field, boosted by a 65-48 rebounding advantage. Reserve Adrian Caldwell had 13 rebounds for Philadelphia. 
"I hurt it by putting too much pressure on the big toe when starting to run," Best said. "My foot is really sore and I hope to be ready for the 


CELEBRATE A FRIEND'S BIRTHDAY WITH A SPECIAL OBSERVER AD. 
Women's Ultimate Frisbee: Have fun, stay in shape, play Ultimate! Organizational meeting and prac­tice on Wed., Jan. 22 at 9:30p.m. in Loftus. New players welcome! Come try a new sport! Q's-call Michelle @ 634-2958. 
Notre Dame Aikido Club: Aikido practice Tues. 8-10 p.m. and Fri. 4:30-6:30 p.m. Phone Ryan for info @ 634-2292. Women's and men's self-defense. · 
Physical Therapy Club: First meeting of '97! Sandy LaFaive will speak about the application process for physical therapy schools. Also elections for officers will be held. Wed., Jan. 22, Rm. 123 Nieuwland Hall, 7 p.m. 
Campus Fellowship: To follow Christ we need to join with other Christians in prayer; to support, encour­age, and love one another. Come grow with us as we strive to answer our Lord's call. Meeting, Fri. Jan. 24, 7:30 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. For info call Peter@ 634-1981 or Kristen@ 634-5237. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
next game (Tuesday) at Milwaukee." 
The Pacers shot only 29 per­cent in the final period, mak­ing just 5-of-17 attempts. 
''I've seen it all. We weren't very effective in the first half and in the second half every­thing picks up," Philadelphia coach Johnny Davis said. "The defensive rebounding picked up, we played better defense and we got to the free throw line. With us, we're just in­consistent." 
Free throws helped the Pacers survive the charge as Indiana scored its final 10 points from the line in the final 
1:42. Miller hit four straight to put Indiana ahead 103-94 with 
1:22 remaining. 
The Pacers seemed to break the game open when Jalen Rose scored nine points in the second quarter when Philadelphia went more than five minutes without a field goal. Indiana put together an 18-2 run, starting after Rex Walters made a three-point play for a 24-22 lead. 
Indiana scored 14 straight points, taking a 42-24 ad­vantage on a hook shot by Erick Dampier. 
Notes: Indiana has defeated the 76ers six straight times in Market Square Arena and won 11 of the last 12 meetings between the two teams. 
Iverson's previous high was 36 points at Dallas on Dec. 5. He topped that by making the game's final basket. 
Caldwell's rebound total was just one below the career-high he had against New Jersey on Friday. 
Indiana, averaging nearly 17 turnovers per game, didn't have any in the first quarter and finished with a season-low eight. 
Philadelphia also had a sea­son-low 10 turnovers and the 34 free throws made and 44 attempted were both season highs for the 76ers, winless in 12 games against Central Division teams this season: 

~­
--~---~~~-­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, January 20, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALl 

Terrapins top Demon Deacons with buzzer shot 
By DAVID DROSCHAK 
Associated Press Writer 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
Laron Profit made a 3-point­er at the buzzer and No. 11 Maryland withstood two sec­ond-half rallies by No. 2 Wake Forest to pull out a 54-51 vic­tory Sunday, snapping the Demon Deacons' 25--game home winning streak. 
The loss by the Demon Deacons (13-1, 5-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) leaves top­ranked Kansas as the nation's only unbeaten team. 
The Terrapins (15-2, 5-1), led by Sarunas Jasikevicius' 19 points, blew a 19-point first­half lead. The Demon Deacons went on a 16-0 run to start the second half. grabbing their first lead at 34-32 with 15:28 left. 
Maryland's 9-2 run late in the half seemed to seal the upset as the Terrapins led 51­44 with 2:22 remaining. 
But Jerry Braswell sank a 3­pointer and Tim Duncan hit a 
Please Recycle The Observer 
THE SAINT MARY's CoLLEGE AccELERATED PROGRAM 
IN NURSING for women with a baccalaureate degree as of May, 1997, in any major other than, Nursing. (Degree may be from an institution other than Saint Mary's.) 
• 
Earn a B.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months 

• 
Application deadline: 2/10/97 


-~B­For more information, SAINT please contact the MARY'S admission office at 
COLLEGE 
NOTRJ:: DAME, IN 
219/284-4587. 

bank shot and two free throws with 17.3 seconds left to tie the score, setting up the last-sec­ond heroics by Profit, who shoots 31.3 percent from long range. 
Keith Booth drove the base­line and was cut off by Ricky Peral as the clock ticked down to about four seconds, but the senior forward kicked the ball out to a wide-open Profit on the right side of the 3-point arc, where he made the shot as the buzzer sounded, setting off a wild celebration by the Terrapins and a few fans who 
made  the  trip  to  North  
Carolina.  
Maryland  won  the  game  

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Celebration 1997 
Reviving the Dream Deferred 



TONIGHT 
January 20, 7:30p.m. The Huddle, LaFortune 
RALLY: 

Let Freedom Ring 
Jimmy Friday, Molly Gavin Seth Miller and Megan Murray 
Student leaders challenge the Notre Dame community to be part ofthe solution to the problem, to examine our responsibility for hearing the concerns ofthe disenchanted and to assert our role 
in achieving an equitable society. 
Guest speaker: Daren Mooko Assistant Director of Multicultural Student Affairs, Ball State University 
Music: Ms. Babette Reid Adjunct Professor: University of Notre Dame Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross College 
Sponsors: 

.. 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
African American Student Alliance, Amnesty International, Campus Ministry, Filipino American Student Organization, Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, and Student Affairs. 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY SOUTIIBEND 
CoNTINUING EDUCATION 
Spring 1997 Semester 

despite starting the seeond half 0-for-11 and 6-for-29 overall in the linal 20 minutes. 
Duncan notched his 23rd straight double-double with 26 points, 13 rebounds and nine blocked shots, but it wasn't enough as the Demon Deacons lost at home for only the sec­ond time in their last 39 games. , 
While Duncan sank R-of-13 shots and 10-of-12 from the foul line, Wake Forest guards Tony Rutland and Braswell were a combinod :~-for-20 from tho field. The ACC's top 3-point shooting team was also only 3­for-19 from beyond the arc. 
Wake Forest, the best shoot­
ing team in the ACC at 49.6 percent, started the game 0­for-7 with four turnovers against Maryland's full-court pressure. 
The Wake Forest fans kept waiting for its team to break out of its shooting slump, which included a 12-minute second-half span Wednesday night against Virginia without a hoop, but things just got worse as the opening 20 min­utes progressed. 
Wake Forest, confused on offense by Maryland's press, managed only two baskets in the first 10:18 and three over the first 13:47 as Maryland jumped out to its 27-8 lead 
behind Jasikevieius' 14 first­half points. 
Maryland's runs included a 10-0 start to the game and a 15-2 spurt midway through the period as the Terrapins made 5-of-6 shots after Wake Forest tried a zone defense against them. That hot streak included consecutive 3-pointers by Jasikevicius 52 seconds apart. 
Even a technical foul against the usually mild-mannered eoach Dave Odom couldn't fire his club up as they trailed 32­20 at intermission, shooting a miserable 21.7 percent. Duncan was 3-for-6 in the half while the rest of the team was 2-for-17. 
More than 300 classes 
• 
Professional Development 

• 
Certificate Programs 

• 
Personal Interest 

• 
Languages and Culture 

• 
Tour Programs 

• 
Youth Classes 


Complete listings online http://www.iusb.edurcted/ Or call237-4261 for a free catalog 

-------------~-------~-~ 
Monday, January 20, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
from freshman defender Sean lead. You put yourself in a major penalty to Urick, who rattle us. We came to win." Molina past Nanook goaltender position to win and you have a also received a game ejection Dusbabek added a goal and
Hockey 
Chris Marvel. couple of breakdowns and they for kicking, Noble increased the Hagkull tacked on an empty­
continued from page 20 
their first short-handed goal of the season; freshman defender Nathan Borega recorded the first goal of his budding college career; two freshman walk-ons, John Dwyer .and Andy Jurkowski, recorded their first points of their careers; and, most importantly, the Irish recorded their first Central Collegiate Hockey Association win of the new year on Saturday night. When all the smoke cleared, Notre Dame retained eighth place in the CCllA. 
On Friday night at the Joyce Center, the Boys of Winter brought a strident student sec­tion to their feet early in the game as they jumped ahead 3­
0. Sophomore right wing Brian Urick began the early barrage at the 17:11 mark of the first period with his tenth goal of the season (tying him for the team lead with freshman right wing Joe Dusbabek), tipping a shot 
In the second period, with sophomore defender Benoit Cotnoir in the penalty box for a slashing penalty, Noble chased down his own shot behind the net and neatly tucked a wrap­around shot inside the right post for a 2-0 lead. 
Just two minutes later, Jurkowski sent a shot from the slot that was batted down by Marvel, but sophomore center Craig Ilagkull was waiting on the right side of the crease and swept the puck into the net for a 3-0 lead. 
But then the "impostor" Notre Dame team, the one that head coach Dave Poulin has berated all season as sluggish and hesi­tant, began to play, and the lead began to slip away. The visitors stunningly tied the game, scoring three times on junior goaltender Matt Eisler in a span of 4:11 to knot the game as the teams headed into the third period. 
"It's inexcusable," Poulin later lamented, "to Jose a 3-0 

INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

Open to all majors. 
Weekly groups are available on: 
even it." 

"We're like two different teams," observed Noble. "The one that jumped out to a 3-0 lead is totally different from the one that let them back into it." 
The Boys weren't finished, though. Borega's wrist shot from the blue line eluded Marvel and lifted the Irish to a 4-3 lead. But again they let the Nanooks slip back into it, as the visitors scored twice in seven minutes to claim their first lead of the game with 6:32 to play. Though the Irish put on the pressure, "Marvelous" Marvel was too tough and they could not get the equalizer. 
"We did not play consis­tently," stated Noble. "We're capable of winning, we show glimpses of it, but we get rat­tled. We have to win close games. But the blessing is that we get to play them again." 
The Boys took advantage of their opportunity for revenge on Saturday night, sinking the Nanooks, 6-2. "We were a much better team tonight," decreed Poulin after the game, "regardless of the outcome." Indeed they were, as they again jumped out to a 3-0 lead. Asked why the team has recently been starting so fast recently, Jurkowski said, "It's mental. Coach has stressed it, and it's important. The games we win are the games in which we score first." 
Urick again began the scoring just 43 seconds into the game, slapping a rebound shot past MarveL Later in the period, a trio of freshman, Dusbabek, center Ben Simon, and defend­er Tyson Fraser, worked a three-on-one break to per­fection, and Fraser finished it off for a 2-0 lead. 
After killing ofT a 5-minute 
Personal Growtl1 Group graduates earn 20°o more per year after gradu~tion. 
MONDAYS. 
3:00-4:15 
TUESDAYS. 
2:00-3:15 
WEDNESDAYS. 
1:00-2:15 
THURSDAYS. 
3:50-4:45 
Call UCC for more Information! 631-7336 

9. After spending another Christmas at l10me. Roseanne's fQrnily looi(S healthy. 
and the number 1 reason is ... 

I South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). I 
1. More exciting. meaning(ul relationc;hir;r, ir1 I 234-0003 • Open 10-5 Monday -Friday I Soutl1 Bend simply cZ~n t be found' 
~-------------------~ 
-
· 8. Someone told you that these are supposed to be the best years of your life and you believed them. 
7. Your love life is beginning to resemble Doug Ross's on ER. 
6. Rush Limbaugh and Hov1ard Stern have better conversations than you and your roommates. 
5. Star Trek's 1\ilr. Data is more capable of emotional intimacy than you. 
4. BAYWATCH has·become your guide to romance. 
3. Your best friend is Bud Light. 
2. You are more anxious about calling home than ET. 
Irish lead to 3 when he one­timed a shot from Simon into the net. And then the game eerily began to mirror Friday night's game. 
After taking a 3-0 lead, the Nanooks scored two quick goals to cut the lead to 3-2. "I wasn't worried," stated Poulin. "It's different when you're behind the bench. I felt good about tonight." 
His feelings were justified, as senior defender Ben Nelsen provided a timely goal to increase the lead to 4-2. "That goal was the difference," said Poulin. Added Simon, "We were in it mentally tonight. We didn't let their little comeback 
Tae Kwon Do-Students are instructed in accordance ]Vith World Tae Kwon Do 
.•.• F~de:atio~ ~~qhl,liques ..Tl'tls 
.···$.§.m.este:r .toi}gcourseme¢.tS Sundays fro.m 3-4 p.m. in Rockne Hm. 301. You must. register in lid­vance at RecSports and. the feeis $20, 
~::t%t:= 
Ballet -R;cSports will he sponsoring Beginner and Advanced··· Ballet. The 
inner. Cl<:Hlses are Jtn· witl1 0~4 .. years. ~~pe·.···•·•
and the Advanc.ed ~;lass is for dancers with 5 or more years experience.•Both classes are semester long 
ses with a fee of $35. · · 
. e Begi . • class meet$ atlirda from 10:15~ 5 and Mondays ff~m 
:30-8:30. The Advanced ·Sundays from Wednesd 

netter to give the Irish a 6-2 win. 
"I was happy with the bal­anced scoring attack," stated Poulin. 
"Notre Dame is a physical team," observed Nanook coach Dave Laurion, Poulin's former roommate and teammate at Notre Dame. "They won the physical battles and their shots went in." 
"We know we can win," said Simon. "This game shows us that. We can get a lead and keep it and not let the other team back into the game." 
That sounds like a good gameplan as the Boys head towards a fight for the playoffs. 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will·be offered Mondayand Wednesday from 6•7;J5.p.m. }n Ro~kt1e Rm. 219, 1\lllt:l:vels are welcome, but spaceislimited;• 
There will be an in­formation meeting on Jan. 26 at 2 p.m. in Rockne Rm.. 301. 
Til~·~ · 30.f()J'.'th~ semes~
i 

terand .... •ups willbegin at 
8. a.m. ori Jan. 27 in the RecSports office. Classes begin on Feb. 3. 
RAP;. . .· HecSports in c.onjtinction with Notre Dame Security/Police ·will be sponsoring a RAD class for women only from Jan. 21­30. 
The.,~l~ss. wi]Lrneet on Tues(iays and Thursdays from 6:30-9:30 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. The central focus ofthis 12 hour program is lead:ting andpracticing phystc~ttactics .to defend against assault. 
The program is taught by RAD certified instructors who are university police officers at No arne. 
R in ad*ance at RecSports beginning today. Class size is limited. There 
. will not be a fee for this class. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics -RecSports will be sponsor­ing three clinics this winter. The firstdiriic will be on Jan. 25 atll.a.m. and tpere will be twq offered on F¢cb. 1 at 10 a.m,a.nd at 2 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $3 rental fee if you need to rent skis. .Regi ation in ad~a.nce is ~equ or a,!!three. cross country 
& Tai Chi -The begin JarL 21 at the }'tf)CSp orts 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological andphilosophical books! 
Our unique selection includes: Fathers of the Church·, Aquinas, Newman, von Balthasar, De Lubac, Maritain, Chesterton, Classics of Western Spirituality series and Ancient Christian Writers, prayer and the saints, Bibles, biblical studies, Vatican II documents, encyclicals, catechisms, and more! 
We can special order any bookyou need! 
I I 
I 10°/o OFF ALL BOOKS I 
1 for N.D./S.M. C faculty andstudents with J.D. 1 
I LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown I 
--~------~------------------·---------------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 20, 1997 
in the half was the only points Pitt put team," McGraw commented. on the board until 1 :39 left in the half. Morgan echoed her coach's senti­
W.J-Ioops M.Hoops
During that stretch the Irish got their ments, "I think we were very disappoint­
continued from page 20 
"My first thoughts were that we're bet­ter than this and we should have domi­nated from the tip," Beth Morgan expressed. 
Head coach Muffet McGraw stopped the bleeding with a timeout and put her star center Katryna Gaither and guard Mollie Peirick on the bench as Sheila McMillen and Kari Hutchinson entered. 
"I needed to get my head in the game, I sat down and I came in ready to play," Gaither remarked. 
Senior forward Beth Morgan broke the seal on the basket after the Irish had missed their first four from the field. Pitt's center Latia Howard put in two of her 13 to push the score to 14-2. 
Coming in off the bench McMillen got the Irish rolling as she attacked the bas­ket and worked hard for the next six points. 
"Sheila came in and did a really good job rebounding and going to the basket," McGraw commented. "She did exactly what we needed and I think the rest of the team followed along her line of thinking." 
"Coming off the bench and knowing that we were down I knew we needed to get going, " McMillen remarked. "So, I tried to do whatever I could to get the team going." 
And that was exactly what she did as Howard's bucket with 15:20 remaining offense clicking and the result was their 31-0 run. 

"It was the exact reverse of what hap­{Yened in the first couple of minutes," Pitt coach Kirk Bruce explained. 
"We got our transition game going and I think that opened things for us," Morgan assessed. 
"I was very pleased with the way the team responded to the 10-0 start," McGraw said. "I thought we played with tremendous intensity and I thought that was as well as we have played, par­ticularly in transition." 
Several key aspects of that transition offense was the Domers' defense which caused 20 first half turnovers, and Peirick who had seven first half assists on her way to a nine assist and 11 point afternoon. 
"I thought Mollie had a great game, particularly at the point," McGraw praised. "When she had the ball in her hands things went very well for her." 
Morgan and Gaither were the main beneficiaries of Peirick's deliveries as Morgan poured in 12 first half points on her way to 18 while Gaither had 15 points to go along with nine boards in just 24 minutes. 
The Irish went into the half flying high but they had a lackluster finish as they got outscored in the second stanza 26­31. 
"At the half we left our game in the locker room and we can't do that to any ed with the second half. We were pretty excited with how we played but the way we played in the last 20 minutes took away from it." 
The contest also saw the return of Kristina Ervin to the Joyce Center floor. Ervin was a four year letter winner for Debbie Brown's volley ball team but she was also an all-state basketball player in high school. 
With the roster down to nine players Ervin will provide another body at prac­tice and will dress for the home contests to give the team much needed depth. 
McGraw's squad will be back in action this Tuesday against Hutgers at 7 p.m. The much traveled Irish will hope take advantage of playing at home. 
"We're going to get some rest," McGraw stated. 
"We haven't had a true day off since Christmas day so we need a break and we're going to come back on defense and I think we need to shoot the ball a little better." 
Notre Dame will be looking for their sixth win in a row against the Scarlet Knights who were the only Big East squad besides the currently top-ranked Connecticut lluskies to knock off the Irish last season. 
The Knights have three returning starters from that team that had a record of 13-15. 
McGraw will also hope to keep their mark in the Big East perfect as they go 
continued from page 20 
and 11 rebounds for the game. 
"Notre Dame heat us up real badly," Boeheim admitted. "I thought we'd have to play great today just to have a chance to win. They just compl~tely dominated us (in South Bend), then they dominat­ed us here today. Their big guys dominated our big guys, and they're a solid defensive team." 
Forward Derek Manner and com­pany also succeeded in sweeping the glass on both ends, out­rebounding the Orangemen 46-29 for the game. 
"The biggest fault of the game was that we didn't do a good job on the boards and I think that was the most telling single feature of the game," Boeheim said. 
Another significant statistic came from the charity stripe. Notre Dame went 17-22 on the afternoon for a .773 percentage at the line compared to a meager 11-19 and .579 total for Syracuse. The Orangemen did even worse from the field on .350 shooting, including .238 (5-21) from beyond the three point arc. 
Syracuse point guard/quarterback Donovan McNabb appeared late in the game and converted 3-4 free throws for his only points in the 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 


for their eighth win in conference play. 
game and the season. 




What are you doing next year? 
A Representative from the 
Marist Volunteer Progratn 
will be giving presentations on 
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 
in the 

Center For Social Concerns 
at 4:30p.m. and 6:30p.m. 
For more information, contact either the Center for Social Concerns, or Tom at (773) 881-5300 ext. 5376 
MVP Homepage: http://www.academic.marist.edu/mvp/ 
Notre Dame 
---VS.--­
Rutgers 

7:00 p.m. Joyce Center 
r --------------~
1 **Jam the Joyce II-This Saturday at lpm 1 I Win a JYlEE trip to Disney World!! I 
L-~------------------~ 
Monday, January 20, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HOW WASI SUPPOSED TO 
KNOW Hi:R DRESS WOULD CA'TCH ON FIRE?!? AND 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE THE CHLOROX .IN HER HAIR-­
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: lrHArPENS 11 
There will be new emphasis on set­

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

E.\IER'fONE PERFORI"\ED

Bt>-.0 NEWS ON '<OUR TI-lE SAME. BUT I'I"'\
PERFORMANCE REVIEW, WALLY. 
REQUIRED TO RANK 'THE GROUP ON A. BELL 

SCOTT ADAMS 
CURVE. 

CROSSWORD 
36 1976 film about a Little League 61 Scored 100 on 1 Shortly 

5NaCI 
team 62 Henri's head

9 Kind of cheese 40 Oliver North's 63 Brilliantly14 Letterman rival rank: Abbr. colored fish 
15 Wash's partner 
64 Unites 16 Noodles 
41 Syncopated 

songs 65 Rabbit dish 17 Traveling 
42 Vast chasmice-cream seller 43 Getting a move DOWN20 Acapulco gold 

on

21 Active person 1 Choir members 
46 Lobster eater's

22 Assistants 21ndia's first P.M. 
accessory

23 Overcast 3Tie--(get
47 Possess 
smashed) 48 Outstanding 25 Denver of "The 

Dukes of 4 Yuletide 
athlete

Hazzard" beverage 26 Fire residue 5 Rushing sound
52'0n land 27 Gorbachev 55 Not in use 6 Yellow fever policy 56 "Honest" 
mosquito 31 List President 7 Lion player of components 57 1958 be~t seller 1939 34 Press, as set in Southeast a Capote, clothes Asia 
familiarly 9 Turns bad 10 Head of a pen ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE tt"Woe-!" 12 Walk of Fame symbol 13 ---serif (type 
ACTRESSI CHIANTI HAMME RAN T R E S s• ME  SEADOGS ALSORAN DS I CKLE D~NEA 
-C 0 CIA. U  L E S E N D  
p II I A N 0 IW I R  E MAYAS  
E RIR-A N 0  SMIIA­ 
REDWAR  E.  HEARSAY  
-I~F  L  0 E-AIDIEI  
A LOIN E F  E  E TIF I RISITI  
B A RIK T I  A . SAG A­ 
AHA. M I C  R O.INSET  
T 0 N G u E AI ERGOTIC D E S T I N Y  D G R 0 0 v E INERTIA C U R E A L L  

style) 18 Ukraine port 19 Central 
American pyramid builders 
24 Mary's pet 25 Snow-clearing vehicles 27 One of the 
Allman Brothers 280ilof-­29 Sexist letter 
start 


30 Dick Tracy's love 31 Seven-year phenomenon 32 1 0 C-notes 33 Wriggly fish 34 Foolish 37 Utter nonsense 38 One who dips out water 39 Subsides, as the tide 44 However 45 Some T-shirts 46 Has an open wound 
.. 
tli•.g down and raising a family . March proves memorable for romance. Be more aggressive about pursuing your financial goals. A new business partnership could help you make better use of your time and tal­ents. September will bring a heavier workload, followed by a raise or promotion. A change of residence is possible as 1997 draws to a close. Marriage enjoys especially favor­able influences in November and December. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON MIKE PETERS 
THIS DAY: actress Shelley Fa­bares, former astronaut Buzz Aldrin, director Federico Fellini, actress Patricia NeaL 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Work goes more smoothly when you feel rciaxed. Do not be afraid to change course midstream; your instincts are excellent. Success beckons. Complete a research pro­ject before making a presentation. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Launching a large-scale venture lets you accelerate into the fast lane at work. Business and literary interests gain power. Romance could be nerve-.vracking. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take your time when handling a complicated professional matter. Doing good work is more important than finishing a task quickly. A friend going through a rough time wants to lean on you. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 

I HAD TO MAKE UP 
Allowing friends to freeload would be a mistake. There is a difference

SOME. FLAWS TO MOVE 
between being a gracious host and 
running a free hoteL Children need your undivided attention. 

'fOU DOWN THE CUIWE.. 
HERE'S A PEN. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Friends who promqte a pie-in-the-sky ven­

SIGN IT. "E.I"\PLO'<EE DOES 
ture ""'·1 be suffering from exces­sive optimism. Avoid investing; a fi-

NOT WASH HANDS 
AFTER USING 
THE RESTROOM': 
' 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 



Join The Observer staff. 
nancial loss would harm your rela­tionship. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Joining forces with a co-worker could lead to a valuable friendship. Family members may not under­stand this attachment. Do not feel compelled to explain your motives. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A highly stressful job may not be worth it. Make the best choice for your health and family life. Romance takes an unexpected turn. Hold off on making a commitment until someone lightens up. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Think carefully about the deep emo­tional bond between you and loved ones. Secrets will be revealed with little prodding if you show greater sensitivity. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Review your health insurance coverage to see if it provides for your needs. Your job performance is being evaluated; do not waste pre­cious time daydreaming. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Narrow-minded people will drag you down. Steer clear. Pay bills promptly to maintain your credit rat­ing. A business venture picks up steam. Good timing is important for success. You know when to approach innuential people. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): An agreement can be signed with good results. Separate fact from fan­tasy where romance is concerned. Your expectations may not be realis­tic. Showing affection will work bet­ter than displaying assertiveness. Emphasize tenderness tonight. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keeping your financial dealings s~cret works to your advantage. Dis­cuss an original idea with people who can help you capitalize on it. A phone call or letter brings exciting family news. Be glad for them. 

·­

SAFERIDE is coming . •• Make sure to sign the waiver this Wednesday in the dining halls in order to be eligible to ride!


--~ ---·~---~~­


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, January 20, 1997 
Orange Crush 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 


By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor 
Just thinking of the Syracuse Orangemen basketball tnam now brings a smile to the col­lective faces of Notre Dame's squad after their second defnat of the Orange in 1(J days. 
If only they all came that easy. 
The Irish, helped by ;ui early 14 point run, held the lead for the last 36 minutes of tho eon­test, showing the killer instinct and offensive spark Notre Damn fans have boen waiting for in the 73-58 victory over an outmatched SU program. Tho win is only NO's second Big East victory of the season improving their conforence record to 2-5. 
The combination of consis­tency and surprise in the Irish offense kept the Orange at bay. Syracuse had to contend with both the Big East's leading scorer, Pat Garrity, and an upstart sophomore who sank his opportunities with nase, Gary Bell. Garrity barely missed a triple-double in 39 minutes of play, tallying 22 points, 13 rebounds, and nine assists, and his ball-handling abilities helped in the transi­tion game. 
"(The transition points) wore huge for me because this sea­son I've had a lot of trouble in the half-court offense because of double-teams," Garrity explained. "Something (Irish coach John MacLeod) has been really getting after me about is getting easy buckets in transi­tion. It not only helps my confi­dence but also everybody else's, and he always says 'they can't' double-tnam you in tran­
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 

TheObserver/RobFinch Freshman Julie Henderson looks to feed Katryna Gaither in the post in Notre Dame's win over Pittsburgh. 

Early bench-led run pushes Irish past Panthers 
By JOE CAVATO Sporrs Writer 
Last season the Notre Dame women's basketball tnam defeated tlw Pittsburgh Panthers by margins of 39 and 37 points in the schools only two meetings. Early on in Saturday's contest it appeared that the Panthers (7 -12, 2-6) wtm~ not to be embarrassed again as they were up I0-0 practically before tho opening tip had been con trolled. 
llowever, the third time was not nearly the charm as the home toam would not be denied as they rosponded with a :H-0 run which paved thn way for their l"ifth win in a row to give them a season record of 15-4 and a porfeet 7-0 in the Big East. 
In the early going Panther guard i\.lneia Balich dialed long-distance twice to help the visitors light up the scoreboard with ten points in the first minute and a half. 
see W.HOOPS I page 18 
sition'." 

Bell, after missing his first shot, connected on seven of his next eight, all in the second half, to keep Syracuse out of serious striking distance. The Orange came within live points on two occasions early in the second half, but two Garrity free throws followed by a dunk off a nice fi~ed from point guard Admore White, along with Bell's touch shooting, dispelled hopes for a Syracuse come­back. 
'Tve been pretty comfiwtable shooting the basketball for the past we1~k or so in practice," lkll offered. 'Tve been really stroking it." 
"Gary Boll was especially encouraging, especially being able to hit open shots like he was and taking it at them, and that really kept us in the game down the stretch." Garrity said 
"We were in a pressing situa­tion where we have to try to get back and defend and it's going to leave some open shots, and (Bell) made them. But they were pretty easy shots," 
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim 
said. 
White had a good game at 
the point both offensively and 
defensively, dropping in 11 
points and dishing six assists 
while harassing Orange guard 
Jason Hart into a horrible 
night, preventing the Syracuse 
offense from really getting 
started. Ilart, a sophomore, 
shot 2-10 from the field for 
four points and coughed up 
eight turnovers. 
"This was a game of offensive 
ineptitude," Boehcim evaluat­
ml. "We just didn't do anything 
on the offensive end, and that 
was really the difference in the 
game." 
Vaunted big man Otis llill 
struggled in the first half for .the Orange, scoring all of his team-high 14 points in the sec­ond period. The center tri­umverate of Matt Gotsch, Phil 
Hickey, and Marcus Young 
dominated the smaller SU front 
court, and recorded I 0 points 
see M.HOOPS I page 18 


• HOCI<EY 


TheObserver/MikeRuma 

Freshman right-winger Joe Dusbabek, who co-leads the team in scor­ing, chalked up a goal in this weekend's action vs. Alaska-Fairbanks. 
Fast start NO offense splits weekend games 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 

In a tumultuous, emotional weekend for Notre Dame hoekey that featured many "firsts," the Irish (7-15-1, 5-11-1 CCIII\.) split games with Alaska-Fairbanks. On Friday night, junior captain Steve Nobln made his first start at center and later gave the Irish 
see HOCKEY I page 17 







