
•Those who
• Stories, fact and 
You 
Memories 
BLUE-GOLD 1997
knew and loved 
fiction, about sum­
him share thoughts 
mer jobs from 
gotta 
of a 
• He's benched this weekend due to
about Joe Ciraolo 
Fanta to filing 
injury, but Jamie Spencer is expected to

work p. 14 
Friend p. 10 
impact the Irish in the fall. p. 12-13 
Friday, April 25, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 132 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



'T I !hat kind of Catholic family VV would allow the discrimina­tion of its members?' 
-Matt Szabo 

Students, faculty rally in support of revision 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE tion" to strengthen their support administration's refusal to News Writer for the rights of every member of address the non-discrimination the Notre· Dame· community. clause" over the past year. They wanted everyone to hear. "Notre Dame is a place where "One of the most important 
Almost 400 university stu­there needs to be equality and things about this rally is the dPnts, faculty and staii gathered freedom for everyone," stated stalling of the administration," in front of the main building yes­Father David Garrick in his she stated. "We need to finally tPrday to demonstrate their sup­opening prayer. "We are not be allowed to talk about discrim­port for the cn~ation of a praying for power, triumph or a ination, and we need someone to University-wide non-discrimina­hidden agenda, but for equality." listen." tion clause and student bill of Because non-discrimination on Two years ago, vice president rights. the basis of sexual orientation of Student Affairs Patricia 
This campus movement, spon­was rooted at the heart of the O'Hara formed the Ad Hoc sored in part by the Notre Dame rally, members of GLND/SMC Committee on Gay and Lesbian chapter ol' College Democrats, were crucial to the organization Student Needs. Though the was an opportunity for campus and implementation of the move­Office of Student Affairs attests groups to unite and voice their ment. However. the demonstra­that "all 12 recommendations of arguments· for the clause's revi­tion extended its eall to students the committee have been met," sion. of all orientations. the College Democrats, joined by 
"Discrimination based on sexu­"The non-discrimination members of the homosexual al orientation is not tolerable," clause is not merely for community, feel that there has said Hyan Guillen. "This is not GLND/SMC," emphasized J.P. been no response from the just an issue for gay, lesbian and Cooney, co-president of the administration since that time. bisexual individuals, but for all College Democrats. "Every per­"This is an emergency," said students. The administration son who is touched by this Molly O'Shaughnessy, a senior has ignored this need for too University is suffering beeause Lyons Hall resident. "Two words long." non-discrimination is not consid­can change a lot. We don't 
Speaking from a makeshift ered an issue by the administra­deserve to live in an atmosphere stage, representatives from the tion." of hate. No one does." College Democrats, GLND/SMC, After the opening prayer and Members of GLND/SMC felt 
and Notre Dame and Saint group cries of "I Iere we go, Patty that the perceived refusal of the Mary's faculty addressed the 0" and "We are not free ... administration to consider or crowd rlusternd in front of the Justice, rights, non-discrimina­support a non-discrimination Dome. Amid the formal speech­tion," the microphone was clause inherently affects the es. the advocates incorporated turned over to Allison Dobson of entire student body. prayer and rally chants like "jus­the College Democrats, who out­At the rally's climax, Sean tice, rights, and non-discrimina-lined what she termed "the 
see page 3 
Frida~ Feature 

There's no room· at the inn 
in a recent expansion of the potential."
As stadium seating 

Notre Dame Stadium will direct­Potential economic profit for ly affect the Michiana communi­the area does stand to be gained 

increases, locals 

ty, which has accommodated so long as the community can the same number of visiting fans prove it has the capacity to han­

must cope with the 

since 1930, when the stadium dle the significant increase in throng of extra fans was constructed. fans. More fans equate to more 
The 1995 annual report of the money spent on merchandise By JAMIE HEISLER Convention and Visitors Bureau and on admission prices to Managing Editor of South Bend/ Mishawaka con­regional attractions such as the 
veys the city government's opti­College Football Hall of Fame 
Six weekends every year, the mistic view of the expansion and and the Studebaker National city of South Bend undergoes an its economic profitability for the Museum. invasion of football-crazed Notre area. The Convention and Visitors Dame fans who come by the "While Notre Dame's academ­Bureau estimates that the aver­carload, busload and planeload. ic prominence is well-known, it age tourist spends $338 during 
They pour across the city's should be recognized that the the approximate stay of a week­limits with a singular destina­33 percent expansion of the end. This total includes various tion in mind -"the house that Notre Dame football stadium factors from staying in a hotel to Hoekne built." The stadium that further underscores the dramat­buying a lottery ticket, accord­Knute Rockne knew so well has ic economic effect which Notre ing to Marge Filchak, executive evolved, however, and with that Dame contributes to the South direotor of the department. evolution have come related Bend/ Mishawaka economy," it Most Michiana hotels and impacts on the eommunity sur­states. "The community now restaurants already operate at rounding the structure. more than ever, must work to 
The addition of 21,000 seats capitalize on this economic 
see STADIUM I page 4 




page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, April 25, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Thoughts on my apocalypse 
My dad always used to drive down to Notre Dame and rescue me from my freshman year whenever the school calendar allowed. 
Just before the journey home commenced, my dad always had Handel's "Messiah" cued up to the Joe Villinski "Hallelujah" part. With Senior Sports Writer the song, a feeling of relief resonated. 

This was our little joke. It always brought a smile to my face. 
I had just survived another break from my true home and couldn't have been happier with the world than during that drive to Chicago. As we hit the toll road, classical music never sounded so good. 
Having been torn away from my family that previous summer, my natural inclination was still to return to my memory landscape. It was a landscape that included a basketball court, a familiar bed, and a home filled with much love -three pretty good reasons to leave campus, if you asked me. 
Somewhere during the next three years, those three reasons began to fuel my desire to be back in South Bend. (Well, maybe not Stepan courts, but the tournament played on them every April.) Suddenly, the trip home became less exciting for all the same reasons that made it exciting when I was a freshman. 
In addition to the connection to my home­town, another connection had developed with my surrogate home. The funny thing is, I'm not going to remember Notre Dame as a surro­gate home, just a second one. 
A second home where growth occurred, both physically and spiritually. Where my friends and I made memories like it was our job. 
Remember that night before spring break sophomore year ... or that time on fall break when... and that dance when everyone ... 
Those are memories that will now help me fall asleep at night. You have your images and I have mine. None is more important than the other. Each deserves a place in our own hearts. 
What is troubling is that most of us can call Notre Dame home for only four years. It was not that long ago when I cried about leaving home. Come May 18, I will most likely be shedding tears about going home. 
This isn't the first time I've dealt with change, nor the last. It's just hard sometimes when the rug keeps getting pulled out from under you. First that home, now this one. 
What's next'? 
You got ripped away four years ago, and on graduation day, be prepared for more tearing of the heart. Maybe it's just me, but this insta­bility thing sucks. 
There's no need to sell this idea any more because this stuff sells itself. 
Without instability, however, new experi­ences would be impossible. And old friends would never become old ones. Take as much comfort in that thought as needs to be taken. 
Now, as graduation approaches. I have my own car. My dad will be at the ceremony, of course; nonetheless, I will be driving myself home. Maybe I'll ask him to make the journey with me a !inal time. 
It would seem kind of empty without him. 
No telling whether or not he'll bring Handel along. If he does, maybe it'll find a way into the cassette player. If not, oh well. My own Messiah will be in the passenger seat. 
Either way, the only thought in my head will not be "Hallelujah," but "Amen." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Michelle Krupa Jon King ·sean Smith Production 
Sports Michelle Krupa Joe Cavaw Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Ayana Fakhir Kevin Dalum Accent Michelle Sweet Nate Wills 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproducrion righrs are reserved. 
• WoRLD AT A GLANCE 

Russia, China agree to limit troops at border 
China, Russia and three Central Asian nations pledged Thursday to reduce their troops along a 4,000-mile stretch of bor­der, building a new peace in the East to counter NATO expansion in the West. 
Chinese President Jiang Zemin said the accord -the result of seven years of negotiations -was a step toward a "security model that differs from the Cold War mentality." 
The agreement reflects steadily improving relations between Russia and China,. communist rivals for three decades after relations soured in the late 1950s. It also demonstrates strengthen­ing solidarity against growing Western influence-in particular, NATO's move­ment into Eastern Europe. 

Bill to outlaw discrimination 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton renewed his sup-
...__.----........,.,.,--__, port Thursday for a bill that would out­law employment discrimination against homosexuals, saying such bias must be eliminated "in our country and in our hearts." During a closed half-hour White House meeting with the bill's sponsors, gay and civil rights advo­cates, Clinton said he intends to lobby ="-"'~---­hard for passage of the bill, which would bar firing or discriminating against an employee on the basis of sexu­al orientation. "Individuals should not be denied a job on the basis of something that has no relationship to their ability to perform their work," Clinton said in a state­ment. "This is wrong." Conservative groups say they will fight the legislation, arguing that it unfairly forces employers to have inappropriate, on-the-job discussions about sexuality and gives homosexuals an advantage in hiring. "What this would do is to force sexual politics into every workplace in America," said Kristi Hamrick, spokeswoman for the Family Hesearch Council, a private family issues think tank. "It's just a very dangerous step to take, and a very unnecessary one." The legislation bars employers from using a worker's sexual orientation as a factor in decisions on hiring or firing, promotion or compensation. The S~nate rejected the bill in September on a 50-49 vote. 
Boys dominate Daughters to Work day 
NEW YORK 
The boys shouted out answers and made a running stream of wisecracks. The girls held back at first, then began to speak up. It was Daughters and Sons Day on Thursday at Bankers Trust, one of a growing number of companies across the country that made their fifth annu­al Daughters to Work day a coed event. While the day was originally designed as a way to boost girls' self­esteem, nearly a fifth of participating companies have turned it into a career-booster for all children. And sometimes, the boys dominate the day. "We thought that the program was so good and the content was so strong that we should be more inclusive," said Mona Lau man­aging director for globalization and diversity at B~nkers Trust and an organizer of the event. To keep boys from hogging the spotlight, however, the company separates the children by gender at some points and tries to make sure that girls outnumber boys. They did thL.~ year, by about 2-to-1. Still, after girls were eclipsed in one noisy session, Ms. Lau said even more care must be taken. "We'll have to draw out the girls more" next year, she said. According to a Ms. Foundation survey of 1,000 companies, 70 percent had days for daughters last year. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high te;nperatures 

[' -· 
/''"'"""""_____ 
......<""" 

H L 
I 

Friday ~ 58 36 Saturday ~ 56 39 
I 


Sunday ~ 58 42
''''' 
~­


Monday 54 36 
''''' ~ 
--~/

Tue~d~y .· '' ·"' ... ' 53 38 
1
...5'/~.,\ v'''..¥ "· /. 

Q,~,Q4QQ {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, April 25. 
50S Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.......---.--............. 
COLD ------WARM 
STATIONARY 
© 1997 Accuweather. Inc. 

Hussian President Boris Yeltsin, who repeatedly has said NATO expansion on Russia's western flank would lead him to look east, called the border agreement "a break­through for the Asian-Pacific region." 
It sets ceilings on the number of troops and the amount of military equipment the countries can have within a 62-mile zone on both sides 
of the  border.  Details  were  not  
released.  
Kazakstan,  Tajikistan  and  

Kyrgyzstan also signed the accord. 
China borders all four former Soviet republics. The border was heavily guarded during the Soviet 
1 era, and clashes occasionally broke out. 
Technology means diapers at 63 
LOS ANGELES 

At 63 years old, the world's oldest new mom is dealing with night feedings and diaper rash. She will be 65 dur­ing the terrible twos, and 76 during the rebellious teen­age years. And maybe, just maybe, she'll be around at 85 to see her daughter graduate from college. When doctors confirmed Wednesday that the woman gave birth at 63, it raised questions about the ethical and practical ramifications of having a baby so late in life. "I don't know if' she's going to have energy for a baby," said Maryann Fiore, who had triplets at age 45 and is now 50. Speaking by telephone from her home in Caldwell, N.J., as her children yelled, "Mommy! Mommy!" in the background, she said: "I was bestowed with a lot of energy. But at 63 it will be a little over­whelming, I think." "It raises a Jot of moral and ethical questions. What are we doing to society? If we're bring­ing a baby to an older woman, later in life, when she's older, who's going to take care of her child'?" asked Dr. Matan Yemini, co-director of the Diamond Institute for Infertility and Menopause in Millburn, N.J. Dr. Mark Sauer, an infertility specialist at Columbia University's medical school, said: "I Jose my comfort level after 55, because I have to believe that there are quality-of-life issues involved in raising a child at the parent's age. When the baby born in November is 5, her mother will be 68. And I have to believe that a 78-year-old dealing with a teen-ager may have some problems." 
Authorities find dish of 'anthrachs' 
WASIIINGTON 

Authorities cordoned off a two-block area around the international headquarters of B'nai B'rith Thmsday and quarantined more than 100 workers after a suspicious, leaking package was discovered in its rnailroom. FBI spokeswoman Susan Lloyd said the package contained a red liquid in a petri dish that was emitting a foul odor. The petri dish reportedly had the word "anthrachs" on it~ an apparent misspelling of' anthrax, the deadly bac­terial disease. The dish also bore the word, "yersinia," which is the bacterium that causes Bubonic plague. Initial tests on the material, however, turned up no evi­dence of a serious contaminant. "We have this container that looks like a petri dish (with) a couple of scientific terms on it. ... It could be strawberry jello, it could be beef bouillon; so we don't know at this point." Lloyd said. At least one man complaining of dizziness was taken to George Washington University llospital. Barry Simon, the hospital's chief of infectious diseases, said field tests on the material showed it was not anthrax. Fourteen others, including a dozen emergency person­nel, were hosed down at the site with a water and chlo­rine solution to decontaminate them, authorities said. 
Pressure 

H L 6] CSl [TIJ 0 . [33 ~ ~ eJ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICc SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta A¥octarea Press 

Anchorage 53 38 Denver 46 28 Miami 83 70 Atlanta 73 52 Fairbanks 63 37 New York 61 43 Baltimore 67 43 Helena 67 34 Phoenix 86 57 Boston 57 39 Honolulu 83 68 St. Louis 60 46 Chicago 64 37 Kennebunk 52 32 San Francisco 72 45 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Students gather to support revision 
continued from p. 1 

Galla van, co-chair of GLND/SMC, however, ralliers adapted the not," Szabo said. "What kind of 
voiced his outrage: "The admin­argument and used Church doc­Catholic family would allow the 
istration has finally done it. .. trine to support the clause discrimination of its members? 
they've f---ed with the straight amendment. We cannot claim to be Catholics 
students. It is time to allow Matt Szabo, Morrissey Hall sen­while tolerating hatred and dis­
everyone to stand here openly ator and College Democrat, quot­crimination." 
without fear or regret. We have ed parts of the Catechism and Fred Kelly, editor of the conser­bnen subdued... It is time to be questioned the inconsistency of vative campus publication Right angry and dmnand our rights." discrimination and Christianity. Reason, was greeted with boos The innate Catholicism of Notre "The Catholic Church explicitly and hisses at both his request and Dame is frequently used to prohibited discrimination against subsequent attempt to address 
denounce gay and lesbian rights; homosexuals, but du Lac does the audience. "The whole point of this rally is insignificant. This is nothing less than a group of students trying to gain the freedom to engage in an immoral way of life," he said. Kelly went on to quote page 35 of du Lac, which contains a policy against discriminatory harass­ment. "Du Lac already has pro­tection for your rights. There is no reason for this demonstra­tion," he concluded. In rebuttal, the College Democrats referred to page 4 of du Lac, which states that Notre Dame "does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin," but does not mention sexual orientation. "Kelly is misinformed," said Gallavan. "Gay and lesbian stu­dents have no recourse." In calling all members of GLND/SMC to come forward in support of the demonstration, Gallavan criticized the current University policy for inducing a strong sense of fear. "It is for us that this university exists," he asserted. "I want to especially thank those students who are afraid to come up here as members of the gay and les­bian community, and especially the straight students in the back who are afraid to show too mueh support for this c<iuse. "The faet that you arc here means that something needs to be't!one," Gallavan continued. Students were not the only ones to stand up against the adminis­tration; faculty members also raised their voices in protest. Gender Studies professor Kathleen Biddick stressed the importance of free thought in a 
university setting. 
"When students bring up issues 
and demand answers they do not 
deserve to be met with silence," 
she said. "This isn't a dome, it's a 
bunker." 
A portion of Riddick's speech 
focused on the way colleges are 
accredited by the Commission on 
Institutions of Higher Education 
evaluation team. In 1994, the 
commission released a report 
that made several recommenda­
tions on improving the relation­
ship between students and 
administration. 
"The Office of Student Affairs 
does not seem to be regarded as 
a source of help and support for 
students," the report concluded. 
"Better communication between 
University administrators and 
students about the reasons for 
decisions would make students 
more aware that top administra­
tors consider their views serious­
ly." 
Biddick stressed that the 
University runs the risk of losing 
its accreditation if the administra­·tion does not "clean up its act. 
· "The accreditors and faculty 
are concerned that students do 
not engage in discussion or par­
ticipate in creative demonstra­
tion," she stated. "The adminis-. 
tration stifles these activities; stu­
dents deserve to have a voice. 
The laek of a non-discrimination 
clause affects the academic and 
social lives of you all." 
John Blandford, former co­
chair of GLND/SMC called for the 
audience to question the adminis­
tration's imperviousness to the 
need for more student rights. 
"The administration has turned 
a deaf ear, and we are trying to 
make them hear, to realize what 
is really going on this campus," 
he said. "Ignoring translates into 
ignorance, and doesn't make the 
problem go away. Sometimes that 
dome is lined with lead." 
To some, the dome did prove 
impenetrable yesterday. Liz 
Scharpf, clad in a shirt reading 
"Hey, Patty 0," exclaimed, "It is 
time to make Patty finally hear 
us!" Her subsequent attempt to 

enter the Main Building was .thwarted by security guards. 
"They told me that I couldn't go 
into the building... They wouldn't 
let me pass without handing over 
my ID. They said it went against 
the terms of the rally," Scharpf 
recalled. "But why, when we've 
have been nothing but peaceful?" 
But her atkmpt, and that of the 
entire rally, may have missed its 
main target. O'Hara was out of 
the offire when the rally began at 
approximately 12:30 p.m. 
Dennis Brown, associate direc­
tor of Public Relations, comment­
ed that "today's rally demonstrat­
ed that all Notre Dame students 
have a wide range of rights. ·• 
But the hundreds of demonstra­
tors assembled to assert the 
opposite -that somn fundamen­
tal rights are being ignored. 
"Notre Dame runs like a busi­
ness," said Blandford, "ar1.d stu­
dents get lost in the shuffic." 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April25, 1997 



StadiuiD 
continued from page I 
their maximum capacity on home football weekends, however, which area citizens know from previous experience the amount of traffic generated by visiting fans. It remains to be seen which sectors of the South Bend economy will feel the strain of the expansion and which stand to benefit most directly. 
A committee appointed by Father William Beauchamp, executive vice presi­dent of the University, examined various aspects of the project. 
"We talked to all kinds of people because it will affect Notre Dame and South Bend significantly," said Beauchamp. 
In addition to the determination of specifics related to the actual construc­tion of the stadium, the University also examined the distribution of the addition-trips to the games; and a limit on the capacity of area hotels and motels to accommodate the full 16,000. Because the supply of hotel rooms currently has difficulty meeting the demand of football fans, it is certain that the additional influx of alumni will have difficulty finding local accommodations. 
''I'm not sure how much the 20,000 people influence demand because all the games are generally sold out anyway," stated Ken Fullmore, president of the St. Joseph County llotel-Motel Association. 
"With the available supply, I'm not sure there will be that much of a difference due to the expansion." 
It is unlikely that more hotels will be built because the limited number of foot­ball weekends must be taken into account, according to Fullmore. 
"I wouldn't make the investment predi­cated on so few weekends of business as football weekends, commencement, junior parents weekend, orientation and a few others. I wouldn't build a business ball fan expenditures. The mall already experiences an annual surge in sales on game weekends as Mall General Manager Sara Zappia explains, "Sales increase for us depending on an increase in the num­ber of people in town." 

As greater numbers arrive this fall, however, they will experience increases in traffic and congestion. The Michiana Hegional Airport already experiences full capacity flights on high demand game weekends, and Airport Director John Schalliol predicts that a significant num­ber of the 21,000 additional people will directly affect the availability of seats on South Bend flights. 
"I don't think the expansion will all'ect us on a day-to-day basis, but for those five or six weekends when you have games, I think there will be a dramatic effect primarily because most of the tick­ets will go to out-of-towners as I've been led to believe," he predicted. 
One of the difficulties which faces com­mercial airlines is infrequent fluctuations in demand such as dur­

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Construction on South Bend Avenue already disrupts local commuting, but when 20,000 additional fans attend foot­ball games next fall, the situation could be chaotic. 
areas behind the laundry and by the toll road. That will spread people out more," stated Hex Hakow, director of Notre Dame security. 
Another problematic factor to be con­sidered is roadwork being undertaken in the vicinity of the campus. In order to fur­ther improve traflic patterns, two main projects arc being undertaken on local roads near the stadium. The construction will be ongoing during the football sea­son, however, further adding to the frus­tration of the traffic situation. 
Cleveland Road will be undergoing con­struction until Dec. 5 and will be closed between Juniper and Ironwood Hoads for that period of time, according to Hick Hiemke, construction engineer for St. Joseph County. 
The second major construction project is taking place on Route 23 and is already underway. It is a more extensive project with three distinct phases spanning a period of over a year and a half, accord­ing to Hick Fedder, sub-district manager of the Indiana Department of Transportation. 
The first two phases will take place this year, and the third phase will take place next year. 
The construction project is due to be completed by August 1998, in time for the football season. 
"The area in the third phase will afl'ect Notre Dame traffic; so every measure will be taken to ensure that traffic's not upset," he stated. 
Regardless of the possibility of increased strain on the community's resources, optimism for the upcoming season abounds. People in directly affect­ed sectors of employment seem willing to adapt to whatever challenges the increased numbers of fans might present. 
"Most importantly, we have to come up with a game plan and must be willing to expand on what we do," said Sports Information director John Heisler. 

,.,...,..-------------------------------,..;,-------. ing home football game
·· 
MI
( HI ANA
t 
R
............·[ GIQNA l 
• ...,
.. 
,..,. 
~ ~ 
""-· 
weekends. Flight pat­terns are set for the year and are rarely if ever altered to bring in an 

~i~~i.tional flight on occa­"Very rarely would they add more flights because their planes. are scheduled so tightly; it's hard," stated Schalliol. "They might put one of our planes on another route am! bring in a larg­er plane on occasion." As the number of peo­ple who travel to South Bend by plane increases, related businesses such as taxi cabs will see increased utilization. In addition, more fans from the Chicago area or ='-"----' those flying into Chicago The Observer/Kevin Dalum wi II uti I ize the s0 uth 
Michiana Regional Airport will feel the effects of the increased stadium seating as thousands more fans will Shore Hailroad as a 
travel to the area for Irish football games next fall. 
a! 21,000 tickets. The fact that alumni receive the majority of the new tickets [16,000] is one of the major factors affect­ing the impact of the expansion on South Bend. 
With the doubling o(the alumni tickets, though, there is a probable doubling of the number of people from out-of-town, increasing the number of people coming from farther away and staying for more than a day. The majority of that group would need hotel and restaurant facilities and would add to the traffic situation. 
While .this has positive implications for area businesses which stand to make greater numbers of sales, there are ques­tionable implications for the already over­taxed hotels, restaurants and roadways. 
If the Michiana area was capable of accommodating an additional 16,000 people each football weekend, the eco­nomic impact would be significant. Taking the $338 that the Convention and Visitors Bureau state each "leisure tourist" spends per stay, an increase in 16,000 visitors would result in $5,408,000 per football weekend [in 1993 dollars.] Six home games equates to over $32.5 million in revenue for the Michiana area. 
Two factors lessen this financial intake, though: an increase in people making day on that," he said. "Businesses have to ask where does the demand come from after football season." 
Without an increase in the number of hotel rooms available, fans will find thr.m­selves having to stay farther and farther from South Bend, depending on the popu­larity of the football game. 
While the hotr.l industry may not feel the effects as directly, the retail and ser­vice industries will see noticeable increas­es in revenue as a result of the expansion. The sheer number of additional people in the area on game weekends will result in economic gains for area businesses. 
The Chamber of Commerce tracks tourist spending and does a study every few years of the spending trends in the area. Their 1993 study shows that St. Joseph County has the third highest tourist revenues in the state with expen­ditures totaling $239,674,913. 
They also estimate that the average tourist spends 33 cents of every dollar on shopping while in the area, which trans­lates to over $100 per visitor. With an additional 16,000 people staying for more than one day, area stores hope to see an additional $1.6 million in revenues per game weekend. 
The University Park Mall expects to see a large part of county revenue from foot-

result of full !lights and increased vehicular traf­lic to South Bend. 
Increased traffic will be a definite factor in the strain on the South Bend communi­ty as the result of the expansion. "Twenty thousand people translates to 11 ,000 cars and maybe 3,000 on game days on local roads such as Angela, Eddy, Juniper and South Bend Avenue," according to Karl Latrow of the South Bend Department of Public Works. 
Latrow believes that there will be no additional strain on the infrastructure of city roads, which already handle thou­sands of cars a day. 
"Angela already carries 18,000 cars a day so an extra six days !1 year won't hurt," he stated. 
While he doesn't foresee expansion­related problems on the roads that the city is responsible for to the south of cam­pus, Latrow believes other areas may feel the impact more directly. 
"It !increased traffic] will be a little harder for the county which handles traf­fic on the north side and for the state police who handle traffic on U.S. 31," he stated. 
The north side of campus will see sig­nificant increases in traffic because of the reduced availability of parking on the tra­ditional sites on the south side of campus. 
"The parking will shift up to the north 

An Av NO F 

How tourist expenditures break 

Ticket breakdown for the 
Tourist dollar breakdown
down over an average stay: 


additional 21,000 seats 
$.32 -Shopping 
$40.24  -Lodging  
70.25  -Food  
33.11  -Recreation  
11.01  -Transportation  
77.04  -Shopping  
2.71  -Other  
51.69  -Tourist Purchases  
25.35  -General Purchases  


.16,000  Alumni  
3,000  Faculty/ Staff  
increased allotments  
2,000  University allotfllents  
(Includes trustees, advisory  
councils, alumni board,  
alumni clubs and major  
benefactors)  

$.31 -Food $.17 -Lodging $.14 -Recreation $.04 -Transportation $.01 -Misc. __j 



Friday, April 25, 1997 


Dole to discusS W 
•

A01enca 
By JAMIE HEISLER M.maging Editor 
She wowed the Republican National Convention with her down-to-earth speech among the delegates. 
She was among those on the scene working to provide fiw the families left homeless after Hurricane Opal struck the Gulf States. 
Throughout her career, Elizabeth Dole has demonstrat­ed a dedication to the better­ment of society and a love of service which currently mani­fests itself in her role as presi­dent of the American Red Cross. Stories of her experiences with the Red Cross will likely surface in her lecture tomorrow night titled, "An America We Can Be." 
"! project she will speak on the Hed Cross and possibly vol­unteerism in America. Topics about North Dakota might also come up if someone asks her," said Erin McCluskey, ideas and issues commissioner for the Student Union Board. 
Dole is currently in North Dakota assisting those who have been displaced by recent flood­ing. She will be traveling direct­ly from North Dakota to speak at 8 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Dole's speech will be followed by a question and answer series in which politics is also sure to 

TO ALL THE GIRLS I'VE LOVED BEFORE: 
-Mike Ruhle 
LOOK WHAT YOU'VE DONE TO ME! 


:\Iotre Dame Department of Music prese["ltS 
Notre Dame Opera Workshop 
Garrv Grice, director John Apeitos, conductor 
Maurice Ravel -L'Enfant et les sartileges 
starTing Michelle Holden 
& 
Giovanni Battista Pergalesi • La servo padrona 
starTing Laurd Portune & Scott ~whipple 
Monday, April 28 &Tuesday, April 29 
8:00pm 
Washington Hall University of Notre Dame 
T Lrkf'IS 'itb General Admtsston. $3 Students&: Senior Cttizf'ns F Cl r t 1 (' 1<. e t s t.: all 6 3 1 -8 1 2 8; For more information c i\ ll l. 3 1 6 2 0 1 
Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 1-800-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary. book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice ·about how to select an affordable diamond. 


Tlbe Diatmm(())ndl Autlb(())rity
A division of John M. Marshall's Inc. Established 1965 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Copyright 1C)<J7 hy .John ~1. Marshnll 




'can b 
be a focus. Dole was· her hus­band's most staunch advocate in his bid for the presidency and has b~en rumored to be a potential candidate for president herself. 
Having s()rved as Secr(ltary of Labor, Dole is familiar with political life and bas extensive experience·speaking in publlc from her years dedicated to community service. 
"Elizabeth never gets a word or pause or chuckle out of place," quotes Time Magazinef 
For her service to the American public, a Gallup p9ll named her among the 1'world's 10 most admired women." It was for her p~omin¢nce. jn American society that SUB chose to bring Dole to campus. 
"There was.a general interest within the committee for a lead­ing woman in America,t She seemed on the up-and-up about politics, social concerns and a potential candidacy for presi­dent although that is unde­clared," said McCluskey, 
Tickets are still on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk and will be available at Gate tO of the Joyce Center tomorrow night. The cost is $3 for stu­dents and $5 for non-students. 
"We've sold a relative amount of tickets, but we hope to sell a lot more Saturday night," said McCluskey. 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
By ALEX ORR 
News Writer 

Brother Roger of Taize joined the likes of Jimmy Carter, Mother Theresa, and John Ilume as a recipient of the annual Notre Dame Award last evening at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The award, established in 1992, honors those "within and without the Catholic Church, citi­zens of every nation, whose reli­gious faith has quickened learn­ing, whose learning has engen­dered deeds, and whose deeds give witness to God's kingdom among us." This year, the life of Brother Roger was chosen by the University as one best fitting this criteria. 
Father Edward Malloy intro­duced the founder of the commu­nity at Taize, who he said has "born extraordinary witness to the mysterious body of Christ. 
"Brother Roger's life and min­istry provide a heartening glimpse of a kingdom ruled by Jesus," explained Malloy. "Taize preaches to the church and the world the invariable lesson of reconciliation." 
After receiving the Notre Dame Award from Malloy, Brother Roger, in heavily accented English, deliberated on faith, the love of Christ and reconciliation among Christians. 
"It is not when things are too easy that we are,enabled to advance towards faith towards a trust in God," declared Brother Roger. "A great impetus to go forward can be born even in a youth that is burdened with tri­als. And it becomes possible, for the sake of Christ and the Gospels, to takr, on responsibili­ties, and even to take risks for thosr, who sull'nr." 
The'se risks and responsibilities arc doubly important in this peri­od of history, according to Brother Hoger. 
"As we approach the year 

~e L 

302 Village Dr. Mishawaka, IN 46545 GRADUATE STUDENT DISCOUNT 
$50 Security Deposit $20 Monthly Discount No Application Fee 
• 
Large pets welcome 

• 
30-day Money-Back guarantee • 1, 2, and 3-bedroom floorplans 

• 
Free gas heat 


• 

G:t Call 256 -0237 
EQUAL HOUSING 

OPPORTUNITY 

The Observer/Adam Andres Brother Roger of Taize accepted the Notre Dame award for his life's dedication to service at yesterday's ceremony. 
2000, are we not entering into a Today the community contains time for making a host of recon-close to 1 00 monks of Anglican, ciliations, not only between Lutheran. Evangelical and Christians but in the most diverse Catholic backgrounds from over situations around us, and with 20 different countries. The non-believers, too?" he asked. brothers have developed their "Being reconciled is forgiving own ecumenical liturgy, incorpo­through love and saying it with rating practices of various our life." Catholic, Orthodox and 
Brother Roger then stressed Protestant traditions. the universal, unpartisan love of The community began with a God. ministry to the European 
"We know that Christ is above refugees of World War II, provid­all communion. He did not come ing shelter, care and conceal­into the world to create a new ment to those escaping the religion," he said. "He came, not destruction and persecutions of to be critical of religions, but so the war. that every human being might A 1994 Taize convention in discover a pathway towards a Paris drew over 100,000 people communion in God. And what is who were supported and shel­astonishing is that no one is tered by churches and families excluded from this communion. throughout the city. Comparable No one is excluded from the love conventions have been held at ofGod." various international hubs of 
A call to see that everyone may progressive religious thought have the opportunity to discover including London, Prague, this "pathway" was what drove Budapest, Vienna, Rome, Brother Roger [then Roger Shutz, Munich, Johannesburg, Manila, a Swiss Catholic of Protestant Madras and Dayton, Ohio. heritage] to found a small reli-Money collected yesterday on gious community in the French behalf of the order will be donat­village of Taize in 1941. Since ed to the Patriarch of Moscow, then, he has witnessed this com-Alexis II, for distribution among muni•Y grow into a worldwide the poor, as the monks of Taize ecumenical movement. accept no donations. 

--~ ---~ -----~-------~-­

page 6 The Observer· COLLEGE NEWS Friday, April 25, 1997 
.. 

Floods cancel North Dakota classes SMC summer programs 
By CHRIS BJORKE The Dakota Student 
GRAND FORKS, N.D. 
The University of North Dakota campus wasn't spared from Grand Forks' worst flood in recorded history, but it did avoid much of the severe devas­tation wreaked on the rest of North Dakota's third largest city. 
Because of that, UND will occupy a vital position when floodwaters began to recede. 
The semester abruptly came to end for UND students last Saturday when President Kendall Baker called off classes and graduation as the town began to evacuate. Students have the option of keeping their present grades or asking for incompletes. 
Even though the campus is several miles from the Red River, it was swamped with about a foot of water flowing from the Red to the east and from the English Coulee, a trib­utary of the Hed that runs through campus. Many of UND's academic buildings and residence halls sustained flood damage, including its cafete­rias, its Environmental Energy Research Center and the presi­dent's residence. The medical school suffered the worst of the flooding, with six feet of water reportedly filling its lower level. 
Among the student services shut down by the flood was the Dakota Student. 
As students evacuated cam­pus last Saturday, the Dakota Student's basement office was quickly emptied out, and its equipment moved to an above ground office. 
The abandoned university is being operated by only a hand­ful of administrators, most of whom are living and sleeping in the headquarters of UND's physical plant, according to UND spokesman Peter Johnson. 
Now that the flooding is 
beginning to go down at UND, the university faces a number of immediate problems, not the least of which is contacting staff, faculty and students and beginning to coordinate clean­up. 
"Definitely, the worst is past," Johnson said. Despite the damages it sus­tained from the flood, UND is 
.lucky compared to most of the swamped, fire-gutted city, and will play an important role in the recovery of the town, Johnson said. Hesidence halls, classrooms and the gym may be used to house evacuees return­ing to their homes. 
"UND will act as a beachhead for moving back to town," Johnson said. 
Johnson said he hoped stu­dents will be able to return to Grand Forks in the next few weeks to pack their remaining belongings from dorms and ;martments, but is unsure how 

evac­flood ]l(<~v•u.u,,., to each years ofcollege. catnptts. remaining rela­.•. most students not ·· · ty/ the student evacuees ly agreed that i:•·tl;l~Y>~~re Ju;cky compared t-o :; most Grand Forks residents. 
· Uie fl(H)d W\IS a source .of pomttnent for them. 
. < ..·•. }O:~J my gra<Juatiou, .lost ··· ·· ·g.goodbye to friends," said · Bra;Ii<lt; a gr uating ... ·. . 'cations maj() . •.••.....,,•.:l!t(Q;i ·Manystuqent~would envyopp(.)rturiity to skip flna.ls, fOr UND s ts, it was a \V}tha.hi ice. ·•i:1i%h , 
.....·.. tfrrst I was hoping finals ~9ttl<i.pe c~t:rfcEYlt!d. Qlit if I'd klloWn it woUld be like this. 1'd lill;tber nave. taken finals:· said freshman Cfuissie Timpe. 
soon that will be. 

UND has been able to survive the flood well, thanks mainly to the president, vice presidents and plant services, Johnson said. 
"I don't think anyone was prepared for what happened," Johnson said. "But we prepare people to be flexible, to think on their feet, and to make good decisions. And I think that's happoned right down the line." 

All Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff 

Effective Monday, April28, 1997 the University of Notre Dame Payroll Department will be relocating to 724 Grace Hall. In order to serve you better, our new hours will be 8 AM -5 PM, Monday through Friday. We ask for your understanding and patience during our transition period. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact our office at 631-7575. 



provide taste of college 
By NORA MEANY Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

Saint Mary's College summer classes are not just for under­graduates trying to catch up on a lost semester. This summer,. the College will offering five programs to give high school­aged students a chance to pre­view some aspects of college life while sharpening their skills. 
Sports Camp, offering instruction in basketball, soc­cer, tennis, softball and volley­ball, will run in two sessions from July 6 to July 18. The camp is run by Jan Travis, director of athletics at Saint Mary's. Also on hand to aid in teaching will be members of Saint Mary's varsity sports teams. 
Currently in its 23rd year, Saint Mary's Fine Arts Camp offers instruction in music, art, drama, dance and creative writing, and will be run by Kim Coleman. 
Students often attend the camps simultaneously, receiv­ing samples of the different facets of education offered by the College. 
"The idea of the summer camps, in particular, is to give younger students a chance to come to Saint Mary's and get a taste of what the school is all about," said John Pauley, assis­tant professor of communica­tion, dance and theatre and program director for the Paula 
Program,  another  summer  
camp program.  
This 20-year-old  summer  

program offers diverse instruc­tion to gifted middle to high school students. Named for the matriarch of a fourth century family, the program's name­sake was responsible for edu­cating young women. 
Unlike the other youth camps planned for the summer, the Paula Program requires appli­cants to submit a personal let­ter, scholastic transcripts and references from teachers along with the application. It is divid­ed into three parts: a week focused on mathematics, one including science, and one in the creative arts. 
"The program," explained Pauley, "stretches students to think, challenges them to think, and also have fun. It's a real hands-on experience." 
Finally. the school offers the Elderhostel Program geared towards adults 55 and over, which focuses on history, cul­ture and economics. It is part of a worldwido program of over 1,800 universities and muse­ums in 45 countries. 

Seen news happening? 
Observer. obsnews.l@nd edu 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY ANDREW! 
ALL OUR LOVE, DAD, MOM, AND DANIELLE 

STUDENTS SAVE 10% AND LOTS OF TIME­LET US PACK AND/OR SHIP YOUR ITEMS FOR YOU. ===BDXESP.Ll/S.=== SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING MOVING & SWRAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES  
~ 277 5555 M-F9AM-7PM -• SAT 10AM-7PMIE!. SUN NOON-5:30PM 5818 Grape Road, Indian Ridge Plaza, Mishawaka Between T.G. Maxx and Venture  

~--------------~-------.--~-----------~----­
page 7 

Friday, April 25, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 



Visitors to El Salvador share tales of journey 
By MELANIE GARMAN Saint Mary's Associate News Editor 
The Saint Mary's community was given a glimpse into El Salvador's culture and political struggles as secn through the cyns of missionary Sarah Gillen. 
The junior, along with profes­sors Gfwrgo Trey, Keith Egan and Sister Botty Smoyer, trav­eled to El Salvador over spring break to experience the third­world country first-hand. Last night they shared their stories. 
The group's main focus was to study the lives of such martyrs as Archbishop Os<;ar Romero, who gave his liffl for the coun­try's people. Homcro was killed on March 24. 1980, and many commemorativo events took place in his honor. 
"We were lucky to be there during the honoring celebrations of Homero." said Gillen. 
The group had the chance to visit the local recreation center, radio station and school system. The pilgrims also attended Mass at the San Francisco Parish, which, according to Gillen, was awkward at first due to lan­guage and cultural barriers. 
"At the sign of peace I felt so comfortable when a young boy came over to shake my hand. and he kissed my cheek," said Gillen. "I found it so heart­warming that the boy would come up so openly to a foreigner and show that kind of atTection." 
Another concern of the group was the role of women in El Salvador, which is mainly to care for domestic responsibili­ties. Unfortunately, education is not valued as part of the female curriculum. The highest stand­ing positions held by women in El Salvador are secretarial and nursing positions. 
According to Gillen, the best tf!ing to do for women would be to establish a scholarship fund that would enable them to get the education they desire. 
The group also encountered the existence of other social dilemmas, including sweatshops. 
"They do exist," Smoyer said. "Even though we did not sec the sweatshop workers first-hand, we were informed of the strenu­ous hours and low wages they receive." 
Another trip to El Salvador is 
being planned for next year. 


Viewpoint 
Needs columnists for the 199 7-98 school year. Interested writers should submit an 800-900 word sample column to the Viewpoint Editor in 314 LaFortune by 5:00 pm Wednesday, April 30 
Call Dan at 1-4541 with questions. 

Ladies, start your engines 

By HANK HECKEL News Writer 

The Argentine constitutional reforms of 1994 ushered in a major transitional period in a nation that has opened up a whole new realm of political possibilities, according to Isidoro Cheresky of the University of Buenos Aires. 
Cheresky yesterday provided background to the issue by explaining how "the reform of the consti­tution was precipitated by the president's desire to prolong his term." 
Prior to 1994, Argentina had a system in which strict term limits applied to the president with the intention of limiting the controlling central powers. Cheresky described how President Menim sought to change this in order to "consolidate a hegemonic power." 
With strong party and popular backing, Menim set in motion a process of reform that eventually modified the electoral process and enabled him to seck re-election. 

Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
McKinley-Penn Self-Lock Storage-·
Use it. 
AnTostal's Big Wheel Race yester­day tested the intricate driving skills of these two competitors. Today's activities include food and bodily 
noises con­
tests, a scav­enger hunt, and a picnic 
sponsored 
by student 
government. The Steve 
Miller Band 
also plays at 
8 p.m. today 
at the Joyce 
Center. 

Cheresky described the new election method instituted by the nation called the "ballotage," which is based on the French electoral system. This entails a first round Of voting in which various parties put up candidates, followed by a second round into which the front-runners advance. 
Cheresky claimed that this change is beneficial, as it allows for a pluralism of diverse political voic­es that more accurately mirrors Argentine society. It also frees the government from the gridlock between two antagonistic factions that had always dominated the scene. 
He warned, however, that "the problem for democracies is pluralism alongside the majoritari­an principle." He elaborated by saying that the concept of popular will is a construct that arises out of a dynamic process of compromise among various groups. 
Cheresky said that if the complexity of the newly emerging structure is appropriately acknowledged, then the people will be ready to capitalize on the opportunitifls created by the reform. 
10386 Mcl(inley -Osceola 
Summer Storage 
lOxlO lOxlS l0x20 Fenced I Lighted I Security 
· Call 679-4744 

Announces the Following Introductory Offers of. .. 
i-$i3-ii-$43-ii-$ii9-ii-$53-i 
Cut & · .11Color, Cur & Srylell Aveda ~~e-up II Hilites &
I . p · · · Apphcauon C I 
-Style ..I L 0 ne rocess .1 L' Wtth Up-Du ut & Style
L 

------~~~ ----~~----~ 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
ATlUASALON 

Ad must be presented to receptionist 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 

before services are pe1jormed 
South Bend, IN 46615 

(Certain restrictions apply) 
Tel. 219-289-5080 

Long or tinted hair add $10. Perm includes shampoo, haircut, & finish. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. 
Expires May 10, 1997. 
--~~ ---~----....__......----____.,..__ 

page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 25, 1997 
Prosecutor's opening statement accuses McVeigh of malice 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN Associated Press W rirer 
DENVER 
Seething with rage against his own government, Timothy McVeigh blew up the Oklahoma City federal building in a twisted plot to spark a second 
American'-'-'-~-= 
revolution, a McVeigh 
prosecutor said in opening statements Thursday. 
"McVeigh liked to consider himself a patriot," Assistant 
U.S. Attorney Joseph Hartzler said. "Our forefathers did not fight innocent women and chil­dren.... They didn't plant bombs and· run away wearing earplugs." 
Jurors listened grim-faced as Hartzler, who has multiple scle­rosis, leaned forward in his wheelchair and spoke softly about the deadliest act of ter­rorism on U.S. soil. 
"It was an act of terror intended to serve selfish politi­cal purposes," Hartzler said. "The truck was there to impose the will of Timothy McVeigh on the rest of America ... by mur­dering innocent men, women and children in hopes of seeing blood flowing in the streets of America." 
But in equally forceful terms, McVeigh attorney Stephen Jones declared in his opening statement: "My client is inno­cent.' 

Jones accused the govern­ment of trying to elevate McVeigh's political beliefs ­which Jones said many share­into a motive for mass murder. And he lashed out at scientists at the beleaguered FBI lab for practicing "forensic prostitu­tion" by slanting scientific work in favor of the prosecution. 
Making no effort to soften the emotional power of the bomb­ing, he began by spending six minutes reading off the names of each of the 168 people killed when the April 19, 1995, truck bomb tore apart the nine-story building. 
As Jones solemnly read the names, bombing victim's rela­tives quietly cried in their spe­cia] section of the packed sec­ond-floor courtroom. 
"It was upsetting," Marsha Kight, whose grown daughter died in the blast, said later. "It tore my heartstrings." 
McVeigh, wearing a plaid shirt and khakis, showed little emotion in court. He leaned for­ward to listen, sometimes rest­ing his head on his folded hands as the prosecutor portrayed the 29-year-old Gulf War veteran as a selfish, deluded coward. 
Hartzler said that on the day of the bombing McVeigh was wearing a T -shirt that bore the Thomas Jefferson quote: "The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants." 
Hartzler contended that McVeigh's hatred of the fedeool government was fueled by what he saw as the government slaughter of innocents at the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Texas, two years to the day before the bombing. 
"lie told people the govern­ment deliberately murdered people," the prosecutor said, adding that McVeigh described Waco as the "government's dec­laration of war against people." 
McVeigh was arrested on traf­fic charges 90 minutes after the explosion, and when federal agents searched his car they found statements quoting 'The Turner Diaries," a 1978 fiction­al account of an attack on a fed­eral building that is similar to the Oklahoma City bombing. 
McVeigh planned the bombing for months, the prosecutor said. 


Astronoiners discover new planet 
By MATT CRENSON Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
Astronomers announced the discovery of a Jupiter-sized planet orbiting a nearby star on Thursday, boosting their confi­dence that there are many more planets to be found -perhaps some that harbor life. 
The object orbiting Rho Coronae Borealis is hardly the first to be discovered circling another star -depending on how you count, it's somewhere in the ninth to 13th range. 
But it is still significant, astronomers say, because it fills in a gap in their planet collec­tion and reinforces their belief that more exist. 
The discovery was announced Thursday by Robert Noyes of the Harvard-Smithsonian Astrophysical Astrophysical Observatory and seven other astronomers. It is to be reported in a future issue of Astrophysical Journal Letters. 
"It's a very nice discovery," said Alan Boss, an astronomer at the Carnegie Institution in Washington, D.C. "Even a single discovery like this can make people stop and rethink every­thing that's happened so far." 
The new planet lies about 23 million miles from its star, or about a quarter the distance from the sun to Earth. The star itself is close by astronomical standards, about 50 light years from Earth. 
Because the planet is closer to its star than Mercury is to the 
sun, its surface temperature is estimated at 400 to 500 degrees 
The Untversity of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
An American in Paris 
George Gershwin 
Fanfare for the Common Man & El salon Mexico Aaron Copland 
Le tombeau de Couperin 
Maurice Ravel 

Friday, April 25 8 pm Washington Hall The concert is free and ooen to the public. 
Fahrenheit. That's much too hot to support life, but there's a good chance that more livable planets could be orbiting Rho Coronae Borealis or a similar star. 
"There could well be many smaller planets in these systems that we just can't see by present techniques," Noyes said. 
Current technology can detect a planet of the size and at the distance of Jupiter or Saturn, but is not advanced enough to find Earth-like planets. 
4 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 
·some state & ladera! regulauons may apply. 'i-copyright 1996 ChK:aQo Harrwtttno Co 




Friday, April 25, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Serial rapist 01ay be targeting colleges 

asked a lot of questions about my sexual past," she said,
WELL DARLINGS .....IT'S ALL OVER TODAY. 
declining to give any other specifics. 
Police investigating the other attacks in Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin began to link the cases because the attacker used similar language and spoke as if he were educat­
e(). 
He also used a ski mask or
We care. From the day you 
covered his victims' heads with
move in, our friendly, profes­
sional staff will give you great 
a knit cap, although one of the 
service. Great location, great 
women was able to see her 
service, great price ... Hickory 
attacker. police said. 
Village has what you need. 
DNA evidence has provided a 
Come by and see for yourself! 
solid link between attacks in Nebraska and Iowa, Lincoln
Efficiencies from $290 
Police Chief Tom Casady said.
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 
Further genetic tests arc under way. 

24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service 
The first attack occurred at 

Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available 
Union College in Lincoln on Feb. 
Free Aerobics Classes 
6, when a man wearing a ski 
Laundry Room in Every Building 
mask raped a woman who was
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 
playing the piano at night in the
Pool, Sundeck & Clubhouse 
basement of an administration
Close to Great Shopping 
building.
Air Conditioning 
Three days later, someone tried to rape a young woman in an art studio at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill. Another student walked in and scared off the assailant. 

Call or stop by today and 'Ml'll show you how great living at Hicktll)' Village can be. 
272-1880 
+HCKORlJ 

lJlLLACJEf!: Student Union Board 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 Until next year Darlings..o o o. 
page 9 


"It is a terrifying thought to me that college campuses would be the preying grounds for a serial rapist," said Heidi Hess, 30, who quit her job as a part­time journalist and business teacher after she was raped on March 5. 
Ms. Hess was chatting on the Internet alone one night in a computer lab at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, a cam­pus where she had worked and studied for 10 years without fear. She heard rapid footsteps behind her. A man in a ski mask grabbed her, threw her to the floor and raped her. 
Ms. Hess -who decided to speak publicly because "people need to know it happens to pco­pl!~ we know" -said hr,r attacker talked through the whole ordeal. 
"He threatened me and he 

Weapons ban vote approaches 
By DAVID ESPO have barred American ratifica-Associated Press Writer tion until Iran, Iraq, Syria and other so-called rogue states had WASHINGTON acceded to the pact. The White 
A treaty to ban chemical House labeled the provision a weapons gained impressive "killer amendment." strength in the Senate on A second provision, deferring Thursday as Majority Leader approval until Russia ratifies Trent Lott swung behind the the treaty, was likewise accord and supporters pre-removed, on a vote of 66-34. 
vailed easily ·~==~~~~~ 
on early test ·; votes. 
With a final roll call set for evening, Lott cited a string of changes agreed to by 
the White 
House in recent weeks -including last-minute written assurances from President Clinton-for his decision. On balance. the Mississippi Rr,publican said of the treaty opposed by many conserva­tives. "I believe the U.S. is mar­ginally better off with it than without it." "It is a close call," he added later. Lott announced his decision moments after administration allies prevailed, 71-29, in elimi­nating a provision that would 
ERASMUS BOOKS . 
• 
Use~ books bought and sold 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books 


in stock oOut-of.Print Search Service: $2.00 
oAppraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Lott predicted the treaty would win 72 to 78 votes and be approved. A two-thirds majority is required for ratifica­tion. 
The pact to ban poison gas worldwide is favorr,d by all of the Senate's 45 Democrats, leaving the treaty's fate in the hands of Republicans. 
Opponents, led by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., argue the treaty is unverifiable and would open the United States to danger from nations such as Libya, North Korea and Iraq that refuse to sign the agreement. 
"The truth of the matter is it won't do a thing in the world to help the situation. It's not a comprehensive ban," Helms said. 
But supporters noted that the United States was already in the process of destroying its 
own stockpiles
of poison gas and said the only way to iso­late renegade nations was t h r o u g h American par­ticipation in the 
Trent Lott treaty. 
"The best way to affect the behavior of these states is to bring to bear the sanctions, iso­late and target those states," said Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del. The treaty would ban the use, development, production or stockpiling of all chemical war­fare agents and require the destruction of existing stock­piles over the next decade. It has been signed by 164 nations thus far, and ratified by 
75. With or without American ratification, the pact will take effect on April 29. 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM THURS@ 10:30 $2 ADMISSION FRI & SAT@ 8 & 10:30 

By ROBYNN TYSVER 
Associated Press Writer 
OMAHA, Neb. 

Four women have been raped and two others sexually assault­ed on college campuses in four Midwestern states, and police suspect the attacks are the work of the same person: a man who likes to spit on his victims, ques­tion them about their sex lives and ask them to pray for him. 
The attacks took place in February and March, on cam­puses 10 minutes to six hours apart. 
The rapes have led schools to step up security and have unnerved students and faculty members with the idea that a rapist is targeting women work­ing alone in computer labs and music rooms. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, April 25, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managjng Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ H~ather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .......................... Kacic Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of the Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either instirudon. The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief,.Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Edicor, Photo Editor, and Associare News Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I -4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 Managing Ediror/Viewpoinr 63I-454I Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 63 I-5323 Systems 63I-8839 Sporrs 63 I-4543 Office Manager 63I-7471 Accenr/Saim Mary's 63 I-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 63I-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 
Two words can· mean a lot 
Political activism at Notre Dame took a h~i''~e~:;~~~~i¢~~:;·~i~emoon '7"' and it was in the right direction. ·• 'M ,_·; ··•WH(ik :<i ....;il! .. ·:·•' ··. :.. :· .. When hundreds gathered outside the Main Building to rally for including sexual orientation in the University~s nQp•discdmit;l.ationd&Ut>e,jt madted th.a­greatest display of student activism. on this C~JPP · several years~ And what made the demoPstration so p9w~rru1 was the w en.C{)tripassed all §ectors of the campus community. · . ··· There .was a Holy Cross priest, f'atljer Da.vid,;,Q-a;rr~~f· '¥ho a~ked in his opening prayer that everyone pray for equality. t> · . · · ...._......... · • There were professors, including Kathleen Biddi~.k.•. ~ho c.f.~wan?ed ~hat_ the Office of Student Affairs provid~ the decency of an answer to the demonstra­tors' call for revision. . . There was a resident assistant. Molly O'Shaughnessy; who argued thatsim~ ply. adding two words -"sexual. orieptation" ......,. tothe non-discrimination clause would do much to change the atmosphere offear tha.tsome homosexu­als endure. There were gay·and lesbian students, who said more of their peers would have attended the rally ifit weren't for the fear that they feel. And there were straight students. wh6 attended the rally because, well, dis• crimination on the basis of sexual orientation justisn't right. . 
It's not thatwe are suggesting that the Upiversity aggressjyely.prmn(ltes or even tolerates discrimination on the basis of orie-ptation. But the University's silence has grown uPcomfortably suspicious, ··Ji!!il'~t .. ...·.•···· ... 
Why hasn't the University added those two s~ple words to the clause? Nothing in the Church's Catechism contradicts do~g l'!P;Jn fact. Ufits itt per· fectly with the Church's call to love one another; And why bas the University deliberated about it for so long? Thirteen months have p1l8s¢4 sin~e vice pr~s­ident for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara agreed to raise the issue .to the University offi~ers. and the campl]s has notyet£~~~iye(i evi'l,t:l Qp.e update.on 
their deliberations. ·····~····· · · It's notthat har(i to irlsert two word~ into tlje ~ight~lirte.PI.jl"a~l;llJh on page4 of du Lac; any eomputer keyboard will w6rk.. ·. ib · · · ··· · ... · · 
The time ispastdue for the UPiV?rSity to erln~llSU:fl tq ~peedpn thi§ iss?e; yesterday's tally emphasized that Althquglimiich ofthe rally's rhetOric was directed at o:Hara,. the power,t?revi§eth~claq_ w1ththeUniver~i~y 
officers. O'Hara agreed only to present the lssu qtllcerS when she accepted the Ad Hoc Committee op Gay and. ,Les~i .··· dent Needs' recom· mendations a year ago. · . ·· · ············ . ·..·..··· ''!fit 
But herresponsibilities tothis issue remaip, , , ··••··· ,.· ..··.···•·••·· ..•. ···. .,.· ..· 
As the vice presidePt for. Student • Affairs;(J'Hara mU$Lcare about the ·cop· cerns ofthe students; the size ofyesterday'$tally and ~~e brt(adth of it~ demo­graphics indicate that this issue il'l a student COitCernf>CoPSequ~ntly, O'Hara should do everythiPg in her power t9 persuade the officers to revise the clause. . .. H•l:il[;ttlli:ii::ii:;i(;!li >L · :,;, << 
At yesterday's rally; Fred Kelly, the etiitorofth¢conservativecampus paper Right Reason; tookthe stage briefly t~ pointout tl:lat ditr.-;rences }Jetween good and had discriminatiop exist. That's true, but Kelly mcorrectly concluded that discrimitlation on the basis of sexual orientation.wlJ,s mP.ral. ·.··· ....... '"''' . 
Discriminating between two optionsimplies that enough thought was put into an issue to make· the right choice; The .UniVeJt$it~ {)fflc~ts).l~Y~ d~liberat~ ed; it's time they made the right choice. ·· · ······· "'"'h"' ··. ··' · 
. ···?==~«;.:=~=:~.))t\:~@W ..;.:.:.,...,.. . . l . ~ ......::·:-,._.··.·.·.·)~.·.•.::~.~.f.:·.l -=~:. :,: ~--:~ ·..
.;;-: :~;:: 

• GUEST COLUMN 
Ciraolo touched the hearts and lives of many 
Joe Ciraolo, a Yankee fan and third-year law student from Cheektowaga, N.Y., (the crab apple capital of the world, although he claimed never to have seen a crab apple) passed on Wednesday at the age of 25. 
Joe suffered from a heart condition and a soft bone disease that limited his mobility to a wheel chair/scooter. But Joe never allowed his condition to place limitations upon his life. Those who knew Joe only in passing admired him for what he had overcome. Those who knew his well admired him for his dignity. Joe never complained about anything but tax class, and frankly, in the Law School everybody complains about that class. 
No one ever questioned whether Joe would be good at the law. He was a talented word­smith (largely attributable to his undergraduate education at Canisius where he was an English major) and a polished speaker. More than that, Joe was a gifted listener. You could go to Joe with a problem and be assured that you had his complete attention. 
Joe was a huge sports fan. lie subscribed to Sports Illustrated and was a regular viewer of SportsCenter. He rooted for his home teams: the New York Yankees, the Buffalo Sabres, and the Buffalo Bills. It was for that last team, the Bills, that he took the most grief. It was a cruel twist of fate that matched him with a roommate whose favorite team was the New York Giants. 
Joe also followed Notre Dame athletics. rstill reeall seeing him at the ND football games about three sections over in the wheelchair seating. He was easy to spot. Sitting on his scooter completely covered up to protect himself from the cold, he was always visible by his bright red Buffalo Bills cap. 
Joe followed the ND basketball teams and the hockey team. Perhaps his most satisfying moments as a sports fan came at the Bengal Bouts. Joe cheered wildly through three rounds as the first friend he ever made on this campus, Todd Carcelli, stepped into the ring and upset the defending champ. 
But Joe's true passion was baseball. Joe claimed that he kept score for every game he had ever watched. (Although in the time r knew him and watched games with him, he never once broke out a score book. lie would blame this break from tradition on us, saying, "It's too dis­tracting when you guys are around.") Last year, after the Yankees won the World Series, he called me and asked that r bring a hammer and some nails over to his apartment. When r arrived, he asked me to hang up a copy of Sports lllustrated's World Series edition which he had framed. 
Last year, a number of Joe's friends moved to London for a year of studies. While we were away, Joe went into the hospital after his heart rate went awry. When we returned this year, Joe took every opportunity to remind us of our departure. "Remember last year," he would say, "when you left me and broke my heart?" Wednesday, when Joe left us, he broke a little piece of each of our hearts. 
GEORGE SPAETH 
Third year Law Student 

Jesus is proud ofJoe Ciraolo. Joe was disabled. He had soft bone disease and as a result, he could hardly walk. Joe had a bad heart. Physically. Joe was dealt a bad hand. Yet he never sulked, he never talked about how bad he had it, and he didn't feel sorry for himself Joe did what so few ofus can do. 1/e lived life with passion and with honesty. He loved his family and he loved his friends. Joe knew what was important and he embraced it. He was simply a good man. Joe Ciraolo was a good, good man. Joe was my friend and he is my inspiration. Thank you for sharing you with me. I will never forget and !love you . 
-Afriend. 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"opinions cannot sur­vive if one has no chance to fight for them." 
-Thomas Mann 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, April25, 1997 page 11 
• OFTEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN DOUBT 
Discrimination can be a good thing 

It wasn't very long ago that a man could be called "discriminating" and know he had been complimented. A "discriminating person" was someone you'd like to know. Not anymore. The 
Christopher 
Regan 


once esteemed faculty of discrimina­tion has fallen into disfavor lately and it is a real shame. 
To discriminate is to draw a clear distinction. One discriminates between good and evil, right and wrong, true and false. A discriminating intellect is one which makes these differences clear for itself and for others. 
The present understanding of the word "discrimination" is a bitter defeat for the English language. It frustrates reasonable debate. It is inimical to perspicuous arguments. It encourages a moral absolutism which is empty of reason, and it robs the very faculty which makes us human of its proper place. 
Discrimination (we must hope) is taught in every classroom. Instructors show students the right, the true and the good as distinguished from the wrong, the false and the evil. If not, at least the methods of reason and debate by which the stu­dents might discriminate for them­selves are taught. 
If there is any defect in this univer­sity, it is not a paucity of discrimina­tion. Rather, at Notre Dame we find J;ar too little discrimination. 
We find so little discrimination that our moral debate is shallow and acri­monious. There is so little discrimina­tion that no issue is examined from more than two sides. There is so little discrimination that some people see only two kinds of people on campus: football players and racists. 
If some of us could discriminate between Catholic leaders with a gen­uine interest in ministry and unlet­tered hate mongers plying their perni­cious trade, there might be a con­versation. 
If others could discriminate between principled advocates of a beleaguered minority and self-righteous zealots unwilling to even consider compro­mise, perhaps we could reach some stable middle ground. 
If discrimination was still counted a virtue, Matthew Apple might think it queer to condemn moral absolutism in one breath and to condemn disagree­ment with his view in the next. What claim of "injustice" can be made by those who maintain that "wrong," "bad" and "evil" are nothing more than a matter of preference? 
If your position is that moral judg­ments and ideas are inherently sus­pect because "everyone has his or her own system," then justice isn't coher­ent in your vocabulary. He says, "No view may validly be expressed except absolute liberal pluralism." Where did he go to school? 
But of course, no one around here really holds that position (consistently anyway), though many think that they do. Their real position is that the moral judgments of the Church are suspect. Or, even better, the moral judgments with which they disagree are suspect. What is never suspect is their own pharisaic accuracy in mat­ters of what they have the nerve to call "tolerance." 
The cries of discrimination have also echoed at Stepan courts during the Bookstore Basketball tournament. Discrimination against and for race, football players, the seeded teams, teams with funny names (see: That's a big Twinkie), etc.... 
In all of that, something is lost. Most of the discrimination is in favor of people who quietly play well, in good humor, and with class and sportsman­ship; and against those who play like thugs, with nothing but winning in mind and then act as if they're too good to be fouled like everyone else. 

The latest ad campaign on campus features a list of universities who do things differently than Notre Dame. The implication that we are wrong because of this is childish. Remember: "If everybody jumps off the Brooklyn Bridge, it doesn't mean you have to do the same." 
If the anti-discrimination crowd finally has their way, there will be no 

telling this university from another. We will all be the same and in the name of "diversity" no less. Then the defeat of our language and our reason and our thought will be beyond redress. 
There is unjust discrimination in the world and plenty worth fighting right here on campus. But let's take the time and the effort to discriminate between who is a racist or bigot and who is making reasonable judgments in good faith about what they believe is right. 
That is, in fact, a great purpose of a Catholic university. What kinds of dis­crimination are consistent with the moral life? As a Catholic institution, we should be uniquely equipped to explore this question. Secular univer­sities like Stanford, Harvard, Columbia and Georgetown have made their decisions. We should have some­thing different to offer the world. 
The freedom and ease of an intellec­tual life without discrimination is tempting. That temptation must be avoided if we want a university for which good people are willing to fight. 
If Notre Dame is counted among the most discriminating universities, thank God. We should not allow that to make us complacent. There is cer­tainly discrimination that is misguid­ed. There is certainly discrimination that is rooted not in the dictates of reason and the moral law, but in fear, jealousy and insecurity. 
Therefore let us resolve: Let there be no more debate on whether or not we should discriminate. Let us move straight on to how we should discrimi­nate. 
There is more hatred in the rhetoric of discrimination on this campus than in any of its practice. There are peo­ple who think adherence to a pre­determined "correct" view is better than vigorous pursuit of knowledge about what is right and what is not. It is against that view that we must rally. 
Notes and Asides: 
• 
One man has made himself the epitome of Bookstore Basketball. Playing with class and a real love for the game, he should be a lock for Mr. Bookstore. Congratulations, John Cerasani. We're proud of you. Keep smiling. 

• 
According to National Review, Thornton Wilder, Edward R. Murrow, George Meany, and blues guitarist Hobert Johnson have all had the ciga­rettes airbrushed out of their mouths on U.S. postage stamps. They are 13 years late with that one. 

• 
"You are good when you are fully awake in your speech, yet you are not evil when you sleep while your tongue staggers without purpose. And even stumbling speech may strengthen a weak tongue." -Kahlil Gibran 

• 
Thank you, Mom and Dad, for sending me to Notre Dame. I love you and I couldn't have done it without you. 


Chris Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday. 
• DIGRESSIONS, DISTORTIONS, ANO GENERAl RAMBLINGS 
A shopper's worst nightmare: the overzealous salesperson 
The other day, I did the unfath­omable, the inconceivable, the rarely attempted ... I took on the ultimate shopping challenge and emerged victo­rious: I walked into Sam's Shoe Palace and bought a pair of shoes! -and 

Kathy Scheibel 
ONLY a pair of shoes! And let me tell you-it wasn't easy. In fact, it was a rather trying experience. 
After many deep breathing exercises, visualization and general mental prepa­ration, I walked into Sam's Shoe Palace and quickly identified the opposition: six commission-starved salesmen strategically stationed and in attack position, ready to pounce. Then, the opposition spotted me, and I witnessed shoe salesmen Darwinism in full effect. They leapt from their locations and broke into an all-out sprint towards me. Joe tripped Earl, who bit Eddie's finger and kicked Dave; Dave knocked Eddie over the head with a golf shoe, while Melvin took a stiletto in the eye and then tackled Joe, and Biff hurdled over the pileup and emerged as the survivor ... the fittest. 
Slightly disheveled and very out of breath, he managed, "Good afternoon Ma'am, and welcome to Sam's Shoe Palace, where we give you good deals and friendly service. My name is Biff, and I will be most happy to serve you in any way that I can." 
''I'd like to buy a pair of shoes," I -said. 
"Well, then you've come to the right place, because here at Sam's Shoe Palace, we sell shoes. May I interest you in a pair of our special, limited edi­tion, celebrity-endorsed athletic shoes? These outstanding works of wonder will increase your vertical jump exponen­tially, shave minutes off your best mile time, and transform you into a spectac­ular decathlete; they glow in the dark, talk back (in three languages) and have a battery-operated remote control for those days when you just don't feel like doing the walking yourself. Let me tell ya, Ma'am, these babies are hot-they normally sell for $384, sale priced at $382 today. But, ya know what, Ma'am?-I like you; you are a valued customer, and I appreciate your patronage, and since I am such a nice guy-I'm going to give you a deal; I'm going to give them to you for the bar­gain price of $380!" 
''I'd like to buy a pair of black dress shoes," I said, remaining focused on my objective. 
"Well, then today is your lucky day, because today and today only, we at Sam's Shoe Palace are having a buy 13, get one free special on black dress shoes, and I, Biff, am proud to be involved in choosing those 14 black dress shoes that will best suit your 

needs. Let's see, you'll definitely need 
the basic plain leather shoe, the velvet 
shoe, the patent leathers for those 
fancier occasions, and of course the 
non-patents for those days when you'd 
really rather not reflect up; you should 
have the leopard skin-accented ones 
(because I sense a frisky side to you, 
Ma'am), and I think the gemstone-stud­
ded pumps for special occasions ... " 
I tried to decline, but he kept forcing 
them on my feet, saying, "Oh, those are 
simply marvelous on you ... this pair 
really brings out the green in your 
eyes." 

As taken as I was by his sincere flat­'tery, I resisted. "Ya know, Biff," I said, 
"I think I'll just stick with the plain 
black leather shoes." 
"Fourteen pairs of the same shoe?" 
he exclaimed, aghast. 
"No, one pair of the same shoe." 
"Now, you realize, Ma'am, that if you 
don't buy the other 12, I can't give you 
the free pair." 
''I'll cope." 

He quickly recovered from the shock 
of my apathy. "Well, then perhaps I can 
interest you in a pair of our newly­
patented runproof, ripproof, stainproof, 
waterproof, clawproof, bulletproof, 
everythingproof panty hose to wear 
with that lovely new pair of shoes." 
I wavered for a moment. "How much 
are they?" 

"For you, Ma'am, $47." 
"Thanks, I think I'll just take the 
shoes." 

"How about a nice purse to match?" 
I shook my head. 
"A belt?" 
"No." 
"Maybe some gloves? How about shoelaces? Shoe polish? Waterproofer? Ya know, Ma'ain, you could really use a bottle of our fine odor spray, because, quite frankly, your feet aren't so fresh smelling." 
I stood strong. 
"Socks!?!?!? Everybody needs a pair of socks ... or six. You can at least buy some socks!!!!!!!!" 
"I only want the shoes," I said calmly. 
"That's it?!?!?! That's all?!?!?! A pair of shoes?!?! One pair of stinkin' shoes!?!? I give my time, my effort and my expert advice, consulting you on your foot attire, and all you're going to buy is one lousy pair of shoes?!?!?! We've got 503,000 different styles of shoes and more accessories than I care to count in this store, and all you want is one*#@!?*@ pair of shoes?!?!" 
"Yep." 
As I left in triumph with my ONE prized purchase in hand, Biff lay pros­trate on the counter in complete baffle­ment at what had just happened; and from the pack of physically inferior salesmen's bodies still piled on the floor, a muffled murmur arose: "Have a nice day, Ma'am, and make sure to tell all your friends about the great deals and friendly service at Sam's Shoe Palace!" 
No problem. 
Kathy Scheibel is a junior Arts and Letters major. Her column appears every other Friday. 
.....---------~------------~----,...--------~---~~----~--~ --~----.----~-~-----~ 
page 12 
Spencer and Goodspeed next to continue fullback tradition 
The Observer/XXXXXXXX 
Although a neck injury sidelined him this spring, Jamie Spencer will play a big role in 1997. 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 
In recent times, Notre 
Dame has enjoyed the luxu­
ry of big, strong, quick run­
ning backs. From Jerome 
Bettis to Ray Zellars to 
Marc Edwards, there has 
rarely been a shortage of 
talent at the fullback posi­
tion, and 1997 should be no 
different. 
Junior Jamie Spencer and 
sophomore Joey Goodspeed 
have already shown signs of 
greatness and if both are 
healthy in the fall, opposing 
defenses will have much 
more to worry about than 
just a new-fangled passing 
attack. 
The current situation at 
fullback resembles that of 
the 1994 season, when the 
talented sophomore, 
Edwards, found himself 
behind the experienced 
senior, Zellars, on the depth 
chart. 
Spencer stepped into the 
starting role late in 1996, 
when Edwards went d.own 
with a knee injury and 
Goodspeed saw limited 
action as Spencer's back­
up. 
Both players have per­
formed well in spring prac­tice, but each have suffered neck injuries in the last two weeks. Spencer sprained his neck in a scrimmage -two weeks ago on Saturday; Goodspeed sustained a sim­ilar injury in the first Blue­
Gold contest last weekend. 
Spencer, who was forced to miss the first Blue-Gold scrimmage, will be out for the remainder of the spring for precautionary reasons. 
"It was very disappoint­ing," said Spencer of the unfortunate injury. "I had expectations for the spring like learning the new schemes and establishing myself as the No. 1 full­back." 
From all indications though, Spencer's neck injury is not serious. He should be in top condition for summer workouts. 
''I'll be 100 percent when we pad up again," Spencer stated. "Now I need to work even harder to back to where I was." 
The expected starter indi­cated that until he returns from his injury and proves himself again, Goodspeed is the rightful starter. 
"He's been great," Spencer said oftheyounger Goodspeed. "He's getting better and better. He has been doing the things he's been asked to do and excelled in doing them. He's had a great spring. You just have to compliment him." 
Goodspeed, who expressed his belief that he would be ready for tomwor­row's spring game, credited Spencer with a great deal of his own personal devel­opment. 
"Just watching Jamie," explained Goodspeed, "I learn from him. Last year, he helped me with the plays and having to deal with the pressure. lie's a great ath­Jete and a great role model to follow. " 

The friendly, yet com­petitve relationship between the young full­backs has clearly benefited both players. 
"We help each other," Spencer said of the mutual competition. "We are both competitors." 
Goodspeed was in com­plete agreement with Spencer. 
"Competition makes you perform better," noted Goodspeed. "I think it helps both us. It makes us work harder." 
Goodspeed has the conli­dence and level-headedness to accept whatever role he may be given and to sue­ceeded in that role. 
"I'd like to go in and start," said Goodspeed. "But I don't [necessarily] expect to start. I wouldn't mind sharing time with Spencer. I'd just like to see [a decent amount on time and help out on special teams." 
Both men understand that their jobs are to make the team better, regardless of who receives the title of starter. 
"No matter who the starter IS, asserted Spencer, "you can be sure he's going to be the best man for the job." 
Right now, Spencer and Goodspeed are just happy to be playing for a team with a positive attitude. They agree that it makes all the difference in the .world when everyday practice is not simply another source of pressure and stress. 
"Last year we were like robots in practice," Goodspeed said of the offense. "This year, it's a different team." 
''I'm looking forward to the season [and] playing under Coach Davie," Spencer said. "It's going to be fun. Like Coach Davie has said, we've got a style to us. I've been enjoying and looking forward to practice. It's been less gru­eling [than] in the past." 
Goodspeed summed up the fullbacks' attitude, and for that matter the attitude of the entire team, best when he said. "We're just having fun playing foot­ball." 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It has been a staple of spring on cam­pus for the past 6 7 years. For the first time in 11 years, one face is missing ­Lou Holtz. 
Last weekend, Bob Davie made his debut as Notre Dame's head football coach in the Blue-Gold game. With the big premiere over, Davie and the team are honing in on their game in prepa­ration for next fall. 
Last weekend. in front of over 5,000 fans, Bob Davie unveiled the team's new look. The premiere was a bit lack­luster, with few highlights coming from either the offense or the defense. This second scrimmage will give Davie and his team the last preview before the fall. 
"We get a chance to look at different players in game situations." Davie said. "And we get to see how they react in a game environment rather than in prac­tice." 
Looking the sharpest was sophomore Jarious Jackson and his 80-yard touch­down pass to junior Malcolm Johnson on the first play from scrimmage for the Gold team. Jackson completed time and time again on numerous routes. lie is slowly divulging his abilities, and the pieces the crowd has seen are impres­sive. 
Fifth-year senior Ho" Powlus aver­aged a 65 percent completion rate. Powlus could evoke memories of the past with an impressive performance in this second scrimmage. Currently, he is Notre Dame's leader in career touch­down passes and is third on the list for completions. Next fall is the year for Powlus to shine and prove that he is 
• 

1997 Spring 
FULLBACK Joey GoodspeedKen Barry 

RIGHT GUARD Mike Rosenthal Tim Ridder 
RIGHT TACKLE Mike DoughtyJohn Wagner
TIGHT END Dan O'learyJohn Cerasani NOSE GUARD 
lance LegreeKurt Belisle

WIDE RECEIVER Malcolm Johnso Bobby Brown 
LEFT EN OLB Corey Bennett Kory Minor 
Jason Ching Bill Mitoulas 
The Rosters for the Blue and Gold game witll n current depth charts for the Notre Dame offense 
I. 
I 

r 
2i 
9}. 
hi 

)IR ut, r,;_; 


-·------·~~·--
--~-~--------------~~~-----­
Friday, April 25, 1997 


Eli 
ROSTER: Dan Fannon, Bob Baxter, Tim Ridder, Kevin Carretta, JefT Kloska 
STRENGTHS: Biggest, most experienced, and most talented team in tournament. This team has no go-to guy because any one team member is capable of leading in scoring. Inside, Fannon (6-foot-4), Ridder (6-foot-7), and Baxter (6-foot-6) can give any team headaches. Guards Kloska (6-foot-1) and Carretta (6-foot-2) have no fear about banging it up underneath or driving the lane. Baxter and Kloska have already proven themselves as outstanding perimeter shooters, and Carretta's deceiving quick­ness and strength can help relieve any pressure Kloska draws. Fannon is the return­ing tournament MVP, and Kloska and Baxter area_tth.team all-Bookstore mem­bers, indicative of the talent on the team. Kloska a:ntl , rarely get beat one-on­one, and Ridder has shut down everyone he's cover.Qll. ·an · ·n is the consummate big game player and Kloska always gets late in the t f\amerit~ so if history repeats itself.' look for these two to really turn it on. These g · not settle for second place. /;1,. . .._... T 
WEAKNESSES: Are there any? A ho 1 not really challenged yet.lP i? each of their games, there has been a _ f sldWdown. Corby's can't afTord 'i../ play sloppy because at this stage any... ~; ill exploit this. Additionally, Carrettcl' and Kloska have taken some pretty liDfir~~hots that have been way ofT, so smart play for the full game is necessary. Riaaex lltts been spectacular, but afternoon football practices may take its t(,)IFftn th~big'irian in one of those marathon Bookstore games. The team has a tendency to phiy· down to the level of other opponents. During one stretch during the Sh~ Me the M-oney game, Corby's looked like it went to sleep and decided to let its oppoheij~s ha~fa few free rebounds. 
PROGNOSIS: Nobody's perfect, and most of the problems that Corby's has encoun­tered are probably a result of the fact that it hasn't faced a real challenge. Corby's is the obvious favorite, and there isn't a single team that has the same level of talent. But that doesn't mean that it can't be beaten. A collective solid efTort from all five players spells certain doom for all opposition. But watch to see if they step up the level of intensity and avoid a slowdown. Ridder and Baxter have led the team in scor­ing, while Kloska and Fannon scored five against Show Me the Money. Balance, bal­ance, balance. 
ROSTERS: Mike Denvir, Bill Gese, Alex Gese, Chris Clevenger, Ryan Healy 
STRENGTHS: There is very--li~e
that this team cannot do. Clevenger and Denvir ha~~!' wn that they can !lat out dominate a game in tlHyd/ifllt. . s far as Healy and 
the Gese brothers are C!~e,f'fed, thje may be no three players in the tournamer~io,wh_o ~afl! ·play an up-tempo game as cons· as this -~;_J)fl"f~nsively, they havo simply over . .c 1eir opporwt4~date, and their transition e is cle"'y one to be..q{ckJ~ed with. 
ito playing .~:;:~~~outstand­
·x rounds of ac · , this squad 
as yet to face a ~~-comparable size and skill. The team destroye ,~F~t the Gimp Ill in Sweet 16 play, but Gimp's No. 1 :'?3r · probably a bit inflated due to its thrilling victirry 1 Q;w night before. Tlw pressure of playing in the q\:W:te f~_-·-s has the potential to wear on tho untested ncrve~tlfiJ~ ~eses. 
. ~\~ ..~i:: 
PROGNOSIS: Although Primctime seems to be every­body's upset favorite, Dos Gescs could prove to be the true dark horse of the tournament. The one thing that may stop the No. 6· seed is a quick start by Muddy Waters, as Geses has yet to face any ll~gitimate adversity. 
ROSTER: Bobby Brown, Lamont Bryant, Bobbie Howard, Jarious Jackson, Mark John n, Leon Wallace. 
STRENGTHS: Muddy W ost athletic team in the tournament. With a rown, Howard, and Jackson, the tea a least one fresh player every game. , nson controls the tempo of the gam n and Jackso have a potent outside attac the basket is enough o · is Bryant's mth. 
hey have been challenged, no one should surprise Mu Waters for the remainder of the tournament. If they ca,n avoid getting wrapped up in the excitement of the ebb and flow, they will be extremely difficult to beat. However, Dos Geses will be a step up from their last opponent. 
"-•·-------~---._. _._ ___._ ._ . .--.-.· -----w•·~~---••"" __..__._._,,. -.... w.-·---•••----~-··­


......... .---~-• 
ROSTER: Stu Healy, Neil Jakobe, Too Keller, Mark Klaassen, Kevin Poppink 
STRENGTHS: Athletic and well-disciplined. Jakobe is very quick and can single­handedly give the opposition problems. Healy is a battlefield veteran, coming off a second team All-Bookstore performance last year an uiding the team like a gener­al. Malicious moves the ball nicely, and the athlet' _. ,Qf all five players wi!~pre­vent any kind of collapse due to fatigue. KevinJ'p . 'Jsiis a rebounding W:~ e, and Too Keller and Mark Klaassen provide thc''dtlil!{:t'i!trmponents of this well­machine. Anonymity can also prove to be a b~t-:'{t'orby's is the high~p,rJ,Jfile~am with the big guns, but Malicious has quitt)J~;:ll~t.tltgether a soli!i,.run ·' -~ljtl~t No d~nks _or trash talking from thesi(guys,t~s tn~ re easily the dWis~,c ~t of the Ehte Eight. ,·->> ": ' _"-'·litl~~ 
···:~ 

WEAKNESSES: Over-r~iance 6ii' Pop}llnk to win the re~o g 1tame. Talll)jt T
1 

not that tall. That could hurt, t&,'Q.ugh.; because even when a has five tall gu~; , it might have problems containing <me or two of exceptipnar ht, as have many 6f · the Elite Eight. llasri~~:.~eally,been challenged. Ifjj,Caly, qr'';Jakobe is completelY' shut off, it is unlikely the•tet,l.!ll ~Will respond well b~j,:aus~ bbth are integral parts of the offense. On one band, Malicious Prosecution's.simple style of play has been able to set the tone for e\I€ry game they have played.thus.fa:r, but on the other, Malicious could have trouble dealing with some of th!)kbig plays and even bigger attitudes that often come with advancement in the Bookstore tournament. 
PROGNOSIS: No glitz or glamour, just a. group of excellent ballplayers who play fundamentally sound ball. Will match yery well with Primetime, as both teams play very consisterit and disciplined basketball. Experience of Healy will play a big part as Primetime is making its first appearance in the round of eight. This game should provide one of the closest matchups of the tournament, and ironically, will probably be one of the least entertaining. If they beat Primetime, there will be clear matchup problems againsfthe hulking frontcourts of Muddy Waters and Dos Geses. Is capable of playing a near perfect game, but whether or not it does is the obvious question. 

Friday, April 25, 1997 The Irish Extra· BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL page 3 


ROSTER: Benedict Rocchio, Darnell Smith, Jason Newr.omer, Matt Campbell, Matt Busam 
STRENGTHS: Experience a utes for the No. 4 seed. This t. since freshman year, exc~ Campbell displays the tenaciJll'ni strength. Rocchio is the ""· ning the point as good the ironman, not los· the tournament. 

PROGNOSIS: Swoosh Ill is very athletic, experienced, and smart. Chris Dotson and Keith Kurowski of SFR II will give Swoosh matchup problems in the backcourt. Lack of height may end up haunting Swoosh III, but ver­satility and athleticism will keep them in any game. 
ROSTER: Chris Dotson, Dan Frigo, Keith Kurowski, Steve Starck, Brian Stuck 
STRENGTHS: Well-balanced offensive attack. With Frigo and Starck i~n (at 6-foot-8 and 6-foot-7 respec­tively), they are ·· t go up against the bigger teams while openin u c· tside game. Kurowski and Dotson arc b h k . 1dlers who have the ability to go coast-to-· am. Stuck, prior to the Sweet 16, had be '·om the perimeter and has the potential to e with his range. 
"W' WEAKNESSES: Despit .:. rigo and Starck can 
S 
be outm~scled in the pain ,, 1ese two do not hi~ the .ards, 1t could be a long day tfi>r SFR2. rowsk1 has the tendency to lose awareness'\!' his team es and try to control the game on his own. Stuc .mely cold from outside against Hoopaholic , 
FR2 cannot 
afford a repeat performance in the qua 
PROGNOSIS: SFR2 is going up against an experienced Swoosh team that knows how to play in the pressure situ­ation. If Stuck can get back on track from the outside, scoring should not be a problem. Frigo and Starck must neutralize Darnell Smith and Matt Campbell in the mid­dle. 


page 4 The Irish Extra • BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Friday, April 25, 1997 
Bookstore XXVI: Showcase ofseniors 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
Senior Sporrs Writer 
Dan Fannon and Jeff Kloska first met freshmen year in Carroll Hall, and quickly became aware of their potential as possi­ble teammates in the Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
Fannon, along with fellow Carroll Hall residents Mike Kloska (Jeff's older brother ) and Bert Berry, teamed up with Planner Hall resident Pete Coleman to form Do~ Kloskas. In their first year, the team of three freshmen and two sopho­mores reached the Elite Eight of the tournament. 
Last spring, Dos Kloskas domi­nated the opposition, defeating Showtime in their only close game, 21-19. ­
Coleman and Mike Kloska graduated last year, and Berry received his degree in communi­cations a semester early~ leaving behind Jeff Kloska and Fannon to make something of their final year of the Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
Fannon and Kloska. along with Corby's teammate Bob Baxter and Swoosh III's Benedict Rocchio and Jason Newcomer, are members of a group of players who havn played at the highest level of the tournament throughout their tenure at Notre Dame. 
As returning members from a strong performing team, there is 
(9 BW-3's Bolivian Yaks (5 SFR2 
added pressure on those team 
members to succeed. 
"We feel challenged alot. We've been playing together for three years, and each year we've set our goals higher," said Swoosh's Rocchio. 
Fannon and Kloska also feel pressure, but like Rocchio, put the value of the· tournament and the experience ahead of attain­ing personal goals. 
"There is· a lot of pressure on us to win," said Fannon. "But I feel so lucky to have been blessed with a great team. I'd love to win again, but it won't be the end of the world if we don't 
win." 
Kloska, who plays guard for Corby's, also places a greater emphasis on the tournament experience as a whole as 
. opposed to the personal acco­lades he has attained. "Bookstore gives you a great opportunity to play with the best players at this school," said Kloska. Baxter is a fifth-year senior who played for Showtime, the 1996 runner-up. Following the departure of their teammates of three years, Kloska and Fannon.. immediately realized the need to assemble a top-notch squad. So naturally, they picked the best guy from the top opposition last year. "Its especially different playing with Bob now because we beat his team last year," said Kloska. 




) 
r 
l Tl 
111 

"He's a great guy and a great player." 
Rocchio and Newcomer, regu­lars at the pick-up games in the Hock, have had the good fortune of playing with the same team and succeeding for a longer period of time than other teams. Swoosh has slowly progressed to 
I)eerless I~rognosticato rs 






Kathleen Lopez fhian Rd.nthaler 

Final Four Final Four Final Four Final Four Final Four i"~ Corby's Corby's Corby's Corby's Corby's 
SFR2 SFRl Swoosh III SFRl Swoosh III Malicious Prosecution Primetime Malicious Prosecution Primetime Primetime Muddy Waters Dos Geses Dos Geses Muddy Waters Dos Geses 
Finals Finals Finals Finals Finals Corby's Corby's Corby's SFRl Corby's Malicious Prosecution Dos Geses Dos Geses Muddy Warers Primetime Champions Champions Champions Champions Champions Malicious Prosecution Corby's Dos Geses SFRl Corby's 
become a legitimate title con­tender from an Elite Eight team last year. 
Despite the potential matehup between Swoosh Ill and Corby's in the semifinals and the unique distinction some of its team members have as bning main­stays in campus basketball, there is no animosity between the two. 
"We all practice together dur­ing the year and have a mutual respect f()r each other's talents. We also know each other as friends, so that makes the tour­nament that much more fun," said Fannon. 

(4 Swoosh Ill (1 And 1 
Muddy Waters (3)

. Muddy Waters 
Yin and Yang (14) 

The Observer/Jon King 
Irish Extra Staff 

• Editors: Betsy Baker, Kathleen Lopez', 
• 

•Front 
Cover: Bryan Meyer 

•Graphics: 
Jon King 

• 
Photographer: Brandon Candura 

• 
Production: Mark DeBoy 

• 
Writers: Charley Gates, ~ 


:! 
Brian Reinsthaler, Russell Williams :I 


Friday, April 25, 1997 

GOLD 

k for Irish spring finale 


ground, with the help of freshman Joey Goodspeed and sophomore Jamie Spencer. Both will sit out this scrim­mage due to injuries . 
The crowd at this scrimmage will look for some more defensive high­lights. The first game was rather tame with few explosive highlights, except for sophomore Kory Minor who record­ed three sacks and racked up five tack­les. 
A note of concern for the team could be the offensive line, which allowed penetration and sacks too often. The defensive line saw new stars emerge as sophomore Shelton Jordan showed his experience, along with freshman Lance Legree. Out of nowhel'e, Legree has made the switch to nose guard. Most likely, this little known secret will get the nod for the starting lineup, come this fall. 


-
, 

~was named USA Today's defensiue player of the year his senior year in high schoot. 0 Nominated for the Butkus amant prior to the 1996 season. 0 Has started 21 out of 22 games since coming to Notre Dame. · 0 Has recorded 188 tackles and 14 sacks in two years. 

"The Blue-Gold game means a lot to the players," Davie said. "They get a chance to play in front of fans and com­pete without coaches stopping every play. It is a break from the every day grind." 
Overall, the team remains a bit rough. This second scrimmage allows 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
the coaching staff and team a chance to 

cornerback Ivory Covington on the pursuit. 
smooth out the rough spots. This year's have yet to give birth to new legend.

one of the best. 
There have been no echoes of Leahy,This was not the brightest part of the Hanratty, Theismann, nor Montana.

offensive show. New offensive coordi­Saturday's game could be the_ chancenator Jim Colletto will have another for Jackson or Legree to shine.
chance to work out the kinks. The ground attack looks to be on solid 
Depth Chart 
RIG'ti;]END
·ramont Bryant Joe Ferrer
, 

HT TACKLE Jones FREE SAFETY
lton Jordon 
Jarvis Edison Deke Cooper-
STRONG SAFETY Benny Guilbeaux A'Jani Sanders 

CORNERBACK Allen Rossum lee lafayette 
be set until game time. Here is a look at the and defense. 
Minor 

continued from page 24 
known to man. 

Since coming to Notre Dame, Mi"' started 21 of 22 games for the Irish 1996, the 6-foot-1, 234-pound linebacker recorded 53 tackles and eight sacks. 
"He has been a tremendous player for us, and he's just getting better," said head coach Bob Davie. "Kory is the type of player that can dominate a game by him­self. He's just an exciting player to watch." 
Last season, Minor was nominated for the Butkus award, given .to the nation's top linebacker, and enters the 1997 sea­son with a legitimate shot at taking home the hardware. In addition, he is consid­ered a genuine All-American candidate. 
"All that stuff is great and everything, but it's not what I am striving for," said Minor. "I want to help this team win a national championship. That's my number one goal, so everything else just falls way down the list." 
Added Davie, "Kory has a chance to win all the awards and achieve all the honors. But that's not his nature. He puts the team first and himself second. I think that's what makes him such a leader on this team." 
The Observer/Mike Ruma, Jon King 

Minor's leadership will be critical this fall when the Irish try to adjust to life without Lyron Cobbins, Kinnon Tatum, and Bert Berry. In an effort to make the transition a s~woth one, Minor has spent time working with the younger players. 
"I've just tried to help some of the younger guys out and make them better football players," said Minor. 
"Don't get me wrong, we're going to miss those guys [Cobbins, Tatum, and Berry], but we've got some talented guys here now. We're still going to be strong at linebacker." 
In addition to his pure athletic ability and his desire to make those around him better, leadership seems to stem from Minor's personality. He constantly has a smile on his face, and his out-going, good natured demeanor has endeared him to his teammates. 
"He is one of the greatest guys you'll ever meet," said Cobbins. "Everyone trusts him and knows he'll be there for us. I can't say enough about the kind of per­son Kory is." 
"Kory is a one-in-a-million type guy," said Berry. "He is so much fun to be around and play with. He's the type of guy that makes you feel like a better person just from knowing him." 
That's the mark of a true leader. 
And that's the essence of Kory Minor. 
-· 

ACCENT
page 14 Friday, April 25, 1997
-
ITa~~~ 1lill(It (BID~ (()~ 1llli(It ~~lli(()(()ilJ(Jtllllr~~ lllllina [fiilJl IT ~(()fill~ a(() ~(() lllililih illlJ ~IDIIDIID(Jt!P' 
M $ 
eet Dick, he is a sophomore PLS major stuck working in Fanta factory in Fargo. N.D. He gets paid $5 an hour to put the pop tops on the bottles, after inserting the ever­important fizz. lie bottles over 3,000 Fantas per day, most of which are distributed 
locally in Fargo. A quality control manager watches him closely to make sure he is adhering to FDA carbonation standards. But when the manager sneaks off towards the nitrous tanks. that's when Dick's job gets interesting. 
Dick, being a pensive, intelligent PLS student, has watched "Willy Wonka and The Chocolate Factory" one t9o many times. He. decided to spice up his life and that of his con­sumers: time to color-coordinate the shade of the Fanta. 
After reading so much Eastern philosophy, he knows about chakras and karma; this renaissance man was also forced to take freshman chemistry. The result? Beautiful Fanta pop in 4 7 different colors, based upon pure demographics -and the Crayola Colorwheel. Macaroni n' Cheese orange. goes to Des Moines, magenta is shipped to Brooklyn. Apple green travels to Boise as sunflower yellow makes its way to Kalamazoo. So.uth Bend gets ethanol grey. 
With these Fanta meccas happy and provided for, Dick can sleep at night knowing that he's done his job well, brightened the lives of some very special people, and used his liberal arts degree to its fullest potential. 
After winning employee of the month, Dick stands as a shining example of job pride, and doing the most with what you arc given. When he returns to Notre Dame in the fail, and sees the many students trapped in the realm of the intellect, he will look back and remember the importance of the practical experience. Everyone should have a job like this at least once in his or her life; it makes sitting through CORE seem tolerable. 
W
ait, is that Pamela Anderson? Join Ben, Jerry and Sherri and the cast of Baywatch for some carefree fun in the sun. They've given up the books for seashells and Coppertone suntan lotion. Ben and Sherri just came back from spending some QT in the ocean, while Jerry is recovering from his alcohol-induced slumber. 
These three Arts and Letters majors are living off their daddy's dime in their plush condos in Hilton Head, S.C. During the days, they frolic in the sun, but the nights are really when they have their fun. They drive up and down the beach~s in their Jeep Cherokees in search of the prefect banana daiquiri. 
Poor Ben. Once, Ben entered a gnarly surfing competition. However. he was cursed with the wrath of the magic Tiki doll that Sherri had uncovered from an ancient Indian burial ground earlier that day. Sherri screamed from the beach as she watched her hero nearly plunge into the jaws of a hungry shark. Luckily, David Ilasselhoff and his crew of lifeguards where there to steal this ill-fated lad from the grip of death. Following the rescue, Hasselhoff rescued Sherri from the suffocating hand of Ben. 
Meanwhile. Jerry, donned in his less-than-modest Spcedo, makes eyes at all of the other guests at Hilton Head with very little success. His glances are sometimes met with a sneer and occasionally a slap. Poor Jerry. 
Of course, celebrities are ever present on the beach dijour. Once, Pee Wee Herman sang to an appreciative audience about the virtues of the "Surfin' Bird." The Beach Boys, as well. have lent their support for the environmental causes of the Hilton Head beach. Annette and Frankie dance the night away. Sometimes, it's so packed that it all seems like a horrendous, overcrowded bad movie. Or Penny Pitchers. But this is no movie. This is life. It's great being a beach bum. 
C
linging to the age-old adage, "it's not what you know, it's who you know," Michael and Katherine have decided to try to advance their careers with an internship. They're both spending their summers avoiding paper cuts and drinking purified water from conical paper cups. But they take consolation in the fact that a summer of slal/e labor ... uh ... filing and research will payoff in the form of a better nSsume. Unfortunately, they must answer to their cruel boss, Mr. McWills, whn resembles Jabba 
..,.. 
the Hut more than a CEO. He pummels them with requests for commercially-edited tele­vised games, and sends them on seemingly endless tasks for the perfect ham salad on IJ. buttered croissant. From Canada. But life is looking up for the two, since McWills' blood pressure is rising faster than the national debt. His doctor put an end to the fatty foods sat­urated with cholesterol. 
Things are not all bad for Michael and Katherine. Their company gives them tickets to the 
• hottest events in town. True they are in the nosebleed section, but how good of seats do you need when you are at the Monster Truck Rally. Besides, where else can you hit on the Daisy Duke-clad 14-year-olds? Bridget's? 
Applying for such a job is as easy as 1-2-3. To wheel and deal with the bigwigs, all you need is knowledge in one field of business. Golf. Once you learn how to control your club and keep track of your balls, your on Easy Street, pal. 
Life is good when you're working in the big city. There is a Starbucks on every corner. For the bargain price of $24.95, you can get yourself a lattc and a bagel for lunch. No sack lunches for these young entrepreneurs. Image is everything. Lunchmeat was so '87. 
~ I was an assistant manager of a dorm on campus and one night the fire alarm went off at about 2 a.m. i went around the dorm trying to wake people up and get them out of the dorm, and when I finally got all the campers and their coaches outside, we saw the hall manager walking towards us -it was his 21st birthday and he was totally trashed. -Matt Kutz, '99 
~ I was a mailman last summer and one day I had to deliver some mail to a local bar. When walked in, there were five mailmen sitting at the bar. They all were just sitting around, and I was covering like three routes. -Tony Rossmiller, '98 
~ The woman I was working with thought I was stalking her. -Phil Donner, '00 
~ There was a person selling strawberries outside the bank I worked at. A woman came in and told the teller next to me that there was a transient outside. The manager asked what was wrong and the teller said, "There's a transvestite outside."-Kim Mathews '99 
-~-~-· ~-·~-~-·~~ ·--·------------------------------~~~-­


-

Friday, April 25, 1997 The Observer • WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL page 15 
.:,·= =·:·:·:,::· 

SKB's least F~~orites def. Don; ... 
Wake'Em Up def. Chocolate kisses 21-5 
Pangborn Frosh def. Hells Belles 21-19 
Team 13 def. The Pretzel Specials 21-12 
Run-n-Gun def. Chemistry 21-5 
5 Pyros & aPlummer def. These Are the Days 21-14 
SPECS def. Granthem 21-12 
Sweet def. Player's Only 21-14 Least Fav's 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
I 
Nice house. Nice neighborhood. channels including WILL PAY BIG$$!! X2369 mountain bike? Join NIMBA, the 273-3010. Efficiency apartment, semi-fur­"Pay-Per View". Works in South Northern Indiana Mountain Bike 
NOTICES 
nished, quiet location near Notre Bend. Call: 277-3899 I need 1 graduation ticket. Please Association. Meet other cool moun­ARE YOU GETTING RID OF YOUR Dame. $325/month including utilities ca114-1021. tain bikers, get bike shop discounts, EUROPE $229. LOFT? except electric. Phone (219)631-TV/stereo ctr. & love seat w/pull out learn of the many local trails, help 
Within USA $79.-$129. MY SON NEEDS IT. 6072/273-1751. bed. Very nice. I just can't take Need Grad. tix. for family. Call open new trails, go on group rides Caribb./Mexico $229.r/t WILL BUY IT. them home! call Janine 243-1382. Janine 243-1382 and camping excursions--even go Cheap Fares Worldwide!!!!!!! PLEASE CALL 282-2229 AFTER 6 Staying for summer school? to local races. Se an area bike 
http://www.airtich.org PM. Apartment at College Park for rent. PowerMac 7100/66 with memory Need one ticket for graduation. shop for an application & sign up AIRTICH 1-800-326-2009 Good Location. Parking, upgrade, ResNet capabilities; Call Sean at x2088 today. Questions? E-mail ndquak­
ASST. FOOTBALL COACH­Nice/Clean, Sun Laserwriter: and 15" monitor for er@aol.com or stolz.4@nd.edu. FREE to a good home:2 cats. OPENING FOR 1997-98 FOOT­Deck,Washer/Dryer. Call243-9360. sale. $900 firm for a entire setup. I need 2 x-tra grad tix!!! Must give them up due to BALL SEASON. Call Kevin x4077 Will pay, call Karen x4588 owner's illness.254-9175 CONTACT HEAD COACH 2 BDRM. 2 Bath, W/D, Dishwasher, Tyra won't be poolside, but PENNY 
NEIL WAGNER 219-842-3389 Micro. Close to campus. Suitable for Men's Trek mountain bike. will be today ... Caribbean/Mexico $250 RT Europe grad student or Prof. in Jamison Excellent condition. $200 or best NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! $199 OW and Domestic Family seeks loving, responsible, Condos. Available June 1 thru May offer. Call Kevin @ 257-0653. WILL PAY GOOD$$$$$$$$$$! BRING YOUR OLD SHOES TO Destinations Cheap!!! fun person to help care for 2 chil­31. $800. (818)968-7030. PLEASE CALL BEN: 277-3055 THE ST.ED'S CARNIVAL TO BE IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE dren while we move. Approx. 5/15 Need Furniture? For sale­RECYCLED!!! PRICES START YOUR OWN AIR­thru 6/10: 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per Hey! Sublease by 1 bdrm at bed,couches, lamp, etc. Diana 271­LINE! hr. References and own transporta­Campus View for the summer. 1 or 2947 I really need graduation tickets so C­Air-Tech Ltd. 212/219-7000 tion needed. 2 people. Andrew x3652 my family can be in attendance. Will Thanks for the entertainment­lnfo@aerotech.com Sue 233-6657. 88 Honda CRX Si. pay$. If you think you can help, and providing momenta you left us last http://campus.neVaerotech SUMMER RENT. Mid-June to mid­V. good condition inside & out. you aren't a scalping-minded profi­weekend! 
August. Delightful faculty home, Must sell. $3,000 offer. teer, please call Ethan, 4-1659. 
FOR RENT

Looking for a room mate for the very near campus. Phone: 233-Pimp, summer at an OC apartment. Close 0743. 27 inch T.V. Cheap. NEEDED the windy city is waiting! to campus. Call Josh @ 4·3923. Near Campus 2 graduation tix Love, 
Homes for 97-98 Furniture For Sale. CALL LIZ @232-7839 Ogilvy
FOR SALE
232-2595

ILOST & FOUND I 
Call: 277-3899 PRINT FROM DISK 5 Bdrms. in private home. Near HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER NEED 2 GRADUATION TIXS PRINT FROM DISK LOST: campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of Great nbrhd, near ND Four Cubs tickets, 6th row!! for my Irish relatives!! PRINT FROM DISK silver lacrosse stick bracelet all facilities. 225/mo. 232-2794 2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500 For the May 15th game Call KATHRYN at 273-4486 Very high-quality full-color output is If found please call Colleen @ Paul. 288 7862 Call Sarah or Karin at 243-9034 now available at THE COPY SHOP 273-1130 in the LaFortune Student Center. Two ND grads ('95) are looking for 89' Dog. Caravan. V. Good SALE! Beds, Couches, chairs, and Bring in your computer disk to print
PERSONAL

LOST: KEYS in the area one or two others (M or F) to share Condition. $ 1690 o/bo. Call Jihad more. Call 243-9390. your files. We support PowerPoint, between Stepan center and a HUGE 4 bdrm apt in Chicago for 277-3254 Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker, North Quad. Please call the summer. Call 773/695-2545 for STEVE MILLER COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS\!! and many many more types of files. X3097. Thanks! onto. GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! It only costs a $1 plus the regular 
pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax, CENTER STATE COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! color copy price for the first ten files, NEED TO SUBLET AN APART­Repo's, REO's. Your Area. Toll Free FLOOR SEATS The highest quality color copies then just the regular color copy PLEASE HELP ME! MENT THIS SUMMER? WE HAVE ( 1 )800-218-9000 1ST 10 ROWS are now available at price for over ten files. We can print A TOWNHOUSE AT TURTLE Ext. H-2013 for current listings. THE COPY SHOP directly onto overhead transparen­I CAN'T SEE .... I CREEK! CALL 273-9829 272-7233 LaFortune Student Center cies too! '81 OLDS CUTLASS, Phone 631-COPY PRINT FROM DISK LOST MY GLASSES! 3 BDRM HOUSE 814 N. ST. 4-DR, 1-0WNER, NEW MOTOR. Desk w/Lamp & Chair, $25; Bike PRINT FROM DISK LOUIS. AVAIL SUMMER & FALL CALL 273-2241. w/helmet & lock, $30; Bedframe PRINT FROM DISK WHERE AM I? '97. CALL 234-1440. w/mattress, $15; Kitchen Table w/4 Family Needs Graduation !@#@$%%"%'&%&"$%#$@# Chairs Tickets --Please Help! Don't we all wish that every Friday Brown Case: Brooks Brothers NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR Christian 273-6967 could be 'Good Friday on the other 
NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 APARTMENT SALE Couch, beds, shelves for sale. Call side of the Coyne'?! REWARD IF FOUND: PLEASE 243-9357 . CALL KELLY .... 243-9403 POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM CALL JULIE @ 273-4486 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR PC For Sale *"**********•******•••••••••••.......Tons SABOR LATINO LOST: A gold necklace & heart 2773097 !@$%#$%&"'&$#$@$#@&%$ 'Great for ALL school work' of Furniture! charm with a sapphire stone and 486, 8 MB RAM, CD-ROM, WIN 95, ... Really, Really Cheap Chicago last week, now small diamond; lost 4/15 on SUMMER RENTALS MS Office 97, & more! $345 back in South Bend! campus. Reward for return. AVAILABLE !@$%#$"&%'"%$"#$@$%" 232-4396 Couches ... Chairs ... Dressers ... Call Lisa x2688. HOUSES CLOSE TO CAMPUS -Tables ... Beds ... Bookcases .. . Friday Apr. 25 
WILL TAKE MULTIPLE STUDENTS APARTMENT SALE TAKE HOME A SLICE OF NOTRE Lamps ... Kitchen Stuff ... and 10:30 pm-2 am DAME HISTORY. Copies of early some! We can even deliver! Jazzman's
WANTED 
LOW SUMMER RATES­CALL SARAH OR KERIN @ 1960s Scholastics available-donat­Call287-4876 
UTILITIES INCLUDED, WASH­243-9034 ed by an alumnus to raise funds for SABOR LATINO Family seeks loving, responsible, ERS/DRYERS, a campus publication. Phone 631­fun person to help care for 2 chil­ALARM SYSTEMS !@$%#%'&"$%#$@%$%"&% 5099. PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­dren while we move. Approx. 5/15 AVAILABLE JUNE 1 AGE. Collegiate Student Storage Hey Terry-­thru 6/1 O: 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per OR SOONER. 88 Honda Accord, LX, air, Am/Fm CRAZY DOUG'S offers On Campus and Off Campus 
~· 
hr. References and own transporta­CALL 674-2571 MARK KRAMER, cassette. great condition, $4400. My prices are insane! Pick up and Delivery, Boxes, Sorry about BW·3. I don't know tion needed. DOMUS PROPERTIES 219-273-3061 Nice FUTON for sale but the rest Insurance, Tape and Packing what I was thinking ... Sue 233-6657 is real cheap. Materials Included. Call Now to 
3-4 BDRM HOUSE. 82 VW Pop-Up camper, great con­e.g. Couch; Desk; Lounge Chair Reserve Your Space at 800 3 Terry PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA­AVAIL AUG. dition, sleeps 4, kitchen. $4,700. 243-9224 STORE 9 (800 378-6739). TIONS 2 FULL BATHS, APPL. FURN. 219-273-3061 Thank you Dan ... Some people 
Positions available evenings ATTACH. 2-CAR GARAGE & OFF­BEAT THE RUSH!! have better taste than others, obvi­
TICKETS
4-9 Mon-Fri or 10-6:30 on week­STREET PARKING. SOFA--5 Sections, $50 OBO UPS on CAM PUS DAILY ously. ends from April through 683-6591. CALL 288-2314 Pack up and \ship out now! August/September. Our busy call LOW RATES lany-jill why no call back? did i 
center is looking for candidates with SUBLET at COLLEGE PARK COMPUTERS Need Graduation Tickets COUNTRY HARVESTER scare you too badly? you shouldn't excellent phone skills and a desire $175/mo 486DX 33 $400., 486DX 66 $500., Desparately. Please help! M-F 10-5 SAT 12-3 make judgments from pictures! (or to satisfy our customers. Part Furnished; 2 Bed/2 Bath Pentium 120Mhz, 16 EDO, 1.08 Brian --287-4876 voices for that matter) and 
Dependability an absolute must. .5mfrom ND GB, BX CDD, 33.6 Modem Thank You NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! remember, if they can say hoochie Starting pay is $8.00 per hour, Call243-9198 $950.00, Kantek 271-2573. Also 
CALL JENNY AT 243-9282 in here, it can't be all that bad!! $9.00 per hour on weekends. Apply build to order, trade. at Qualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­Going abroad? Do you need hous­
Do you have an extra GRADUA­SOUND TECHS NEEDED!!!! hey emu!!! if you were a fish, sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921 ing for spring semester next year? MOVING OFF-CAMPUS? TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!! Student Activities is accepting would you need a bicycle? 
some­Louise St., South Bend, IN 46615. Call 243-9430 or 1540 for informa­LAFAYETTE RESIDENTS SELL­
Please call Paige at X4011 applications for Sound Techs times i wonder, and by the way, why We support a drug free workplace. tion. ING FURNITURE: 2 Comfy for 97-98 academic year. do you write such bad e-mails. EOE Couches. 2-3 Twin Beds (Bought NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. Applications available in FURNISHED ROOM NEAR CAM­new this year), Entertainment WILL PAY$$$. 315 LaFortune. my problem is with people in gener­NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEMO­PUS, AIR, KITCHEN, PRIVATE Center, Antique Desk. Call 288-ETHAN 4-1659. al, and you in particular :) RABILIA WANTED TICKET STUBS ENTRANCE, UTILITIES PAID. 9278 for info. FRESHMEN!! 
PROGRAMS JERSEYS CASH 272-0615. STEVE MILLER JOIN THE 1998 SOPHOMORE LIT­hey boys! 3a may live again after PAID 2773097 
BAR AND BARSTOOLS FOR ERARY FESTIVAL COMMITIEE! all. long live the wall gestapo. by TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE SALE: Black Vinyl bar with 2 match­CENTER STAGE Meet fellow sophomores(to be), the way, how did things go tonight? Available -Part-time Retail Sales looking to sublet from 6-1 to 8-ing swivel barstools. Great for FLOOR SEATS bring world famous poets to cam­
Clerk 20. Willing to negotiate price. house or apartment. Bought new pus, and have a blast doing it! That's more tnan a dress; that's an Pandora's Books 808 Howard -Just CALL 634-0547 this year-must sell!! $175 obo. FIRST 10 ROWS Applications available now and next Audrey Hepburn movie. off of Notre Dame Ave. Call Gina at 288-9278. 
week at the SUB office, 201 LaFun. Call 233-2342 1 OAM-5Pm 
Staying in S.B. for the summer? 272-7233 Encourage your friends to apply! We went like this. He went like that. I RENT OUR COLLEGE PARK Cable T.V. descrambler. said to Hollywood "Where'd he go?" Needed: Nanny. Nice little girls. APT!! Call 284-4347 for details. Descrambles all premium I NEED GRADUATION TIX!! Want to get better use out of your Hollywood said where'd WHO go?" 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MHlS BASKETBALL 

Irish recruits show their stuff 
Observer Staff Report 
This weekend, the Joyce Center will host the Coca-Cola All-American basketball game and the Coca-Cola!Reebok All­American Game. The games are scheduled for this Sunday at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., respec­tively. 
On display in the Coca-Cola Game will be future Domers Marty Ingclsby, Hans 
Rasmussen  and  Leviticous  
Williamson.  
Ingelsby,  a  guard  out  of  

Radnor. Pa .. is one of the top players in the Philadelphia and was named the Gatorade State Player of the Year. His acco­lades also include being named to the all-state team and first team all-city. 
Rasmussen, of Portland, Ore., was an honorable mention pre­season All-American but went out with a fractured ankle that he played on for the first half of his senior season. Despite his injury, Rasmussen led his team in points, rebounds and blocks per game. 
Williamson, of Spring, Texas earned first team all-state and all-region honors for the state of Texas. He grew into a line player his senior year, as he doubled his points per game and rebounds per game from his junior to senior seasons. 

The first game will feature a matchup between future Big East and Big Ten players. The East squad is comprised solely of players who will battle in the Big East next season, and all but one of the players on the West squad will be in Big Ten country next year. 
The second half of the dou­bleheader will feature two­sport stars who will be playing their "other" sport. Lorenzo Guess, Levron Williams and Antwaan Randle El arc also slated to play football at their respective universities. All three earned all-state honors for their work both on and off the gridiron and hardwood. 
The Coca-Cola All American Game 
Name 
Johnny Holley 
T.J. McKenzie Marty lngelsby Ben Perkins Shannon Crooks Hans Rasmussen leviticous Williamson Reggie Jesse James Felton 
The East Roster Hometown 
McKinney, TX Trumbull, CT Radnor, PA Viton, LA Everett, MA Portland, OR Spring, TX Brooklyn, NY Bayonne, NJ 
Name 
Luke Recker Marko Punda Rob Turner William Gladness Brandon Smith Kirk Haston Doug Davis Cameron Stephens 
-
0""' 
3 
V151T tHE1YOTRE DAME' GOLF~· sHOP 
~URING BLUE·GOLD·WEEKEND 
Make Tee Time Reservations for 
Call 631-6425 
The West Roster Hometown 
Waterloo, IN Split, Croatia Tyler, TX Poteau, OK Amarillo, TX Linden, TN Galloway, OH Fort Wayne, IN College Choice 


Villanova Providence Notre Dame Providence St. John's Notre Dame Notre Dame St. John's St. John's 
College Choice 
Indiana Valparaiso Indiana Indiana Michigan Indiana Michigan State Purdue 


If you are interested in serving on the 
Col\~,ge o{J3u.~~;ness.Admtpistration 
•coU~ge Council 
please submit your resume to: Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio Room 101 College of Business Administration no later than April 30, 1997. 
If you need more information, call 631-6602. 
-~~--------------­
Friday, April25, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Report ofthe Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs to Professor Patricia A. O'Hara, Vice Presidentfor StudentAffairs 
I recently received thefollowing letterfrom Ann Firth, chair ofthe Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, describing the activities ofthe Committee this year. Because this was the first year ofthe Committee's existence and because ofthe interest within this community about the 
work ofthe Committee, Iam sharing this letter with you in full text. 
Professor Patricia A. O'Hara 
~ice President for Student Affairs 
Dear Professor O'Hara: 
A
s you know, the 1996-97 academic year marked the first year of the existence of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. Because we serve as an advisory committee to you, you have asked that we submit to you a written report of our activities of this past year. This letter will serve as our report. 
The following persons served as members of the Committee 
during the 1996-97 academic year: David Burrell, c.s.c. Susan Bruno, O.S.F. Sean Geary Mark Massoud (fall semester) Carol Jones (spring semester) Tony Silva Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
The mission of the Standing Committee was articulated in your Open Letter in response to the Final Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, dated April 2, 
· 1996. You stated that "it should be the task of this committee to act as a resource to the Vice President in identifying the ongoing needs of gay and lesbian students, to continue the dialogue begun by the Ad Hoc Committee, and to assist in the implementa­tion of campus-wide educational programming on gay and lesbian issues." 
The Standing Committee has met nine times over the course of this academic year. We have hosted two campus-wide events designed to heighten awareness of gay and lesbian issues. The first was a panel discussion entitled "Homosexuality and the Family," moderated by Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. The panel consisted of gay, lesbian and bisexual students. The students related their experiences of sharing their sexual orientations with family and friends. The father of a lesbian daughter also served on the panel and talked about his own journey of understanding. Many in the audience were themselves parents, siblings or friends of gay or lesbian persons. The dialogue which developed between panel members and the audience was very powerful, as people shared stories both of acceptance and affirmation, rejection and denial. 
The second campus-wide event hosted by the Standing Commit­tee was a lecture by Thomas Gumbleton, Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit, entitled "Homophobia: AChristian Perspective." • Bishop Gumbleton has long been a voice for understanding and acceptance of gay and lesbian persons within the Catholic Church. His advocacy on behalf of gay and lesbian persons has deep personal significance to him, for he has a brother who is gay. Bishop Gumbleton called upon the Church to listen closely to the experiences of gay and lesbian Catholics and to treat them with love and respect as people striving to grow humanly and spiritually. 

During Hall Staff Orientation in August, members of the Standing Committee led a workshop on gay and lesbian issues for the Resident Assistants. Asimilar workshop had been offered to the 
R.A.s at the beginning of the 1995-96 academic year, and it was one of the recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs that efforts to educate the R.A.s be continued. In the course of the R.A. workshop, Dr. Patrick Utz, director of the University Counseling Center, gave a presentation on homophobia. Representatives from Campus Ministry provided information about their efforts at pastoral outreach to gay and lesbian students. In addition, two students spoke about their experiences of being gay at Notre Dame and offered practical suggestions on how R:A.s can be welcoming and supportive of the gay and lesbian students in their residence halls. 
In addition to the programs described above, the Standing Committee, in conjunction with Campus Ministry's Pastoral Initiative for Gay and Lesbian Students, has offered to be a resource to the residence hall rectors in the planning and presenting of in-hall workshops on gay and lesbian issues. Several gay and lesbian students have made themselves available as presenters or facilitators for these workshops. It is the hope of the Standing Committee that a greater number of residence halls will take advantage of this resource in the future. 
The Standing Committee is in the process of creating a home page, which will allow students who are seeking more informa­tion about the work of the committee and about resources on this campus for gay and lesbian students to access this informa­tion more readily. Our home page will also feature information about upcoming events hosted by the Standing Committee. 
Finally, the Standing Committee has begun work on·a type of "Safe Zone" campaign, which we hope to launch early in the 1997-98 academic year. This will be a campaign designed to help gay and lesbian students feel more welcome on this campus. Interested students, staff and faculty who are familiar with campus resources available to gay and lesbian students will be invited to identify themselves as willing to talk about issues of sexual orientation. We hope to pilot this program with hall staffs during Hall Staff Orientation in August. 
The Committee is in the process of identifying potential campus speakers for the fall semester. We will continue our efforts to offer as many fora as possible for discussion of gay and lesbian issues, both in campus-wide lectures and through programs in the residence halls. 
We are encouraged by the progress made by the University within the last two years, but there is still much work to be done in terms of making Notre Dame a place which welcomes its gay and lesbian students. It is our hope that in some small way, the efforts of the Standing Committee have helped to improve the campus climate in this regard. We appreciate all of your support over the past year, and we look forward to continuing our efforts in the year ahead. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Ann Firth 
Chair, Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
.· 

-
• 


... 

-
-
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
First baseman Jeff Felker played a key role in the Irish victory as he had scored two runs. Practically every­one got into the offense as they pounded out 15 runs and 15 hits on the evening. 
~· §lllecn VflCJz·es at 
"Styles for All Walks of Life" 
In the Campus Shoppes 
RedKen Clear Color Gloss Free with Cut 
Appointment necessary for tanning, 
9a~~~·pm
relaxers, perms and styles 
llam-4pm 
IBM Internet Connection™ for Education an alternative to busy signals for modem users 
Connect quickly and easily. IBM uses an exclusive switching technology that makes it one of the most reliable online services available. And it's offered at a special rate to Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff. 
It's reliable -worldwide. The IBM Internet Connection for Education is built on the IBM Global Network with extensive worldwide coverage -which means 
better Internet modem connections for you, even when you travel. You can count on its reliability, too, because it comes from a company that has been a key Internet player for as long as 
anyone. 
·. 

You're automatically pre-approved. As a student, faculty, or staff member, you are automatically pre-approved for the online subscriber option you elect. Pay as little as $4.95 per month for limited service, $12.95 for 50 hours per month, or take advantage of IBM's terrific unlimited Internet access offer for $17.95 per month. 
Contact the IRC for your Internet access kit. 
Information Resource Center (IRC) 111 Computing Center/Math Bldg University of Notre Dame (219) 631-8111 
For more information, visit the following Web page: • http://www.nd.edu/-ircenter/ibm.html 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
which is well above their season average of a homerun every 30 at bats. This inning gave the Irish a lead that they would not relinquish during the rest of the game. 
In the sixth, Wagner hit his 14th homerun of the year, and was immediately matched by an opposite field homerun by fresh­man Rrant Ust. This was Ust's ninth homer of the year, and his fourth to opposite field. Ust made his first start at shortstop this game, playing previously at second base. . 
"Early in the season, I moved Ust to second to take some defensive pressure off," said coach Paul Mainieri. "I knew I'd really need him offesively. But now, I don't consider him a freshman; lie can handle pres-
SMART OPTIONS FOR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
City Staffing, specializing in temporary and permanent placement, deals with a variety of Chicago,s most prestigious companies. 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS 
CALL US TO SET UP AN APPOINTMENT THAT WILL 
312-346-3400 
~~u·a-r.,.anteed Wait List 
we guarantee an apartment for you THIS FALL! we provide: 
•
washer & dryer in your home 

•Gas 
heat INCLUDED 

•Mini 
blinds on all windows 

•Fitness 
center, pools, & club­house 

•Central 
air conditioning 

•12 
Month lease 

•Cats 
allowed 

• 
JUST 4 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME 


One, '1\vo, & Three Bedroom Apartments & Townhomes from $415 to $700 
INDIAN SPRING 
272-5011~:---..lt..w.l.­
Friday, April25, 1997 
sure and I want to make sure I have my best fielders on the left side of the field." 
The coaching staff was also very pleased by the performance of Lapinskas. 
"Every time Lainskas gets a chance, he wants to throw the ball well," commended pitching coach Brian O'Connor. 
Mainieri added, "He's a com­petitor; he has a lot of pride and never gives up. He doesn't have the strongest arm. but he threw some good changeups." 
:\o1n• D:l"'" hn., a very chal­lf'IH!inl.! \\ ,.,,h.,•ltti .11 it .111 · · 'Jlwy lite!' Big i':<tst ;\nwrican divi­sion lt•;l(ll'/' \\ •·~1 \ irginia in a doubleheader Saturday. Then. the Irish must battle Pittsburgh in a double header 
"It's going to be a big chal­lenge," said Mainieri. "We have a lot of people banged up, a lot of injuries, and we really need to rally. Everybody has to do a little better." 



~---.-------------·----------------------------~------------------­
Friday, April25, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Cindy Daws continues to receive accolades for her efforts on the field. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Climbing Wall Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial every Sunday at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up outside the wall. 
Drop-in Volleyball HecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No estab­lished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
Special Olympics Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swimmers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30 
p.m. For more info. call coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. 
RecSports will be hiring two full-time, one part-time, and numerous substitutes to lifeguard at the St. Joscph Lake Beach this summer. Please contact Greg at 1-5100 or come to RecSports office at the Joyce Center to fill out an application. 
RecSports is now accepting applications for student event supervisors and student issue room supervisors. Please pick up an application at the Office of RecSports on the first floor or the Joyce Center. For more information, call631-6100. 
Bar Bell Club -A weightlifting club is coming soon next year for novice or serious lifters. Learn more about the art of lifting and developing a bigger and stronger physique. Call Binh at 4-4364 for sign-ups and more info. 
RecSports World Wide Web -RecSports is now accepting applications for a student who will be responsible for main­taining a RecSports home­page. RecSports office to com­plete an application. The position is for the 1997-1998 academic year. 


lt\s Not a Dream! 
1r'lllur1tlle C1reelk lm~s; \ti())Wlllllml())llllS~es ~mft~lbfte fi())lf \the 1997-9~ SOOI())I())ft yeu~ 
We must have been sleepy, because we underestimated the numbers and woke up to find we have a limited number of two bedroom townhomes still available for the 1997-98 school year! Assignments will be made on a first come, first serve basis and 
they won't last long! 
So don't snooze or you' II lose! Stop by the leasing office and get your application packets today! 
One bedroom and studios still available as well! 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
@
1710 TURTLE CREEK DRIVE 
EQUAl HOUSIMl
(219) 272-8124 
OPPORTUNITY 


,. 
Da\Vs lVill be honored by state 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

. Despite the end of her collegiate soccer career in which she helped to bring the Notre Dame women's soccer program into the national spot­light, Cindy Daws continues to make noise.· 
Yesterday in Indianapolis, a resolution to honor the midfielder was approved by the Indiana Senate. State Senator Joe Zakas, a Republican from Granger, authorized .this mea­sure. 
The resolution was approved by the Senate unanimously and it is being sponsored in the Indiana House of Representatives by B. Parker Baur, a Democrat from South Bend. 
Daws is Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer and is being honored for her outstanding accom­plishments in women's collegiate soccer. 
Those accomplishments include leading the Irish to the national championship game the last three seasons, including the championship in 
• SOFTBALl 


By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
As the weather finally begins to heat up, the Notre Dame softball team prepares to host Big East rival Rutgers in a four-game homestand this weekend. 
The Irish plan to use these games as a tune-up for the conference championships, scheduled to begin next Saturday in in Storrs, Conn. 
Maintaining focus through­out the entire game will be a point of emphasis for the Irish, as they face a mediocre Scarlet Knight team. 
"When teams don't have the record (of a top 25 team), it's 


Friday at the 
St. Edward's }~:~:~~-~~~~Ya:·."...~~~!~a·:~!·~~ 
come anu unK your Irten s at our dunk tank: 
1:00 David Scheidler C.S.C. 
2:00 Jeff Shoup (Residence Life) 
3:00 Matthew Connor (real life cowboy) 
5:00 Bill Kirk (Student Affairs) 
5:30 Jim Lies C.S.C. 
and many more! dunking all day on North Quad 
Don't miss Troop ND at 3:30 

1996 in which she scored the winning goal in double overtime to defeat Portland. Over those three years, Daws was named to the All­American team.· 
Daws received numerous accolades, including the most prestigious awards distributed in the world of women's collegiate soccer. 
In January, with former teammate Michelle McCarthy and head coach Chris Petrucelli in attendance, she was named the Missouri Athletic Club Player of the Year. The award is consid­ered the Heismen Trophy for soccer, as previous winners include Alexi Lalas and Mia Ham. 
Daws also earned the Hermann Trophy which is also considered one of the premiere awards for women's soccer players. 
"It is very appropriate that Cindy Daws be rec­ognized by the Indiana Senate for her remark­able accomplishment," said Zakas. 
Thus, Daws' impressive resume has continued to grow even though her days on the college field are over. 
-
easy to have a nonchalant attltude, especially playing four games in a row," said third baseman Kara McMahon. 
Playing two doubleheaders against Rutgers with intensity will pay off for the Irish, as they head into the post-season geared to challenge the top teams in the nation. 
Thus far, the Irish have been less than impressive against ranked opponents, sporting a 3-8 record against top 25 foes. Most of those losses came early in the sea­son, during the national tour­naments Notre Dame played in February and early March. 
Since then, the Irish have 
-
meshed as a team, combining offensive power with solid pitching to win 12 of their last 13 games. Freshmen Sarah Mathison, Tara King and Lisa Tully have emerged as impact players, and seniors Katie Marten, Meghan Murray, Joy Battersby, Kara McMahon and Liz Perkins have shown the poise and leadership nec­essary to win the close games. 
With the right combination of players in place, the Irish look to improve the mental aspects of their game, settings their sights on dethroning the 1996 Big East champion Connecticut Huskies and mak­ing their mark in the NCAA regional tournament. 

@)  •  @)  
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  Going Out of Business Sale Entire store 30-75% off ~~BuySed Includes clearance levi's All sales final Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line 1912 S. 11th St. HOURS:(U.S. 31)THE M-F: 10 · 7Niles, Ml !687-91231 Sat: 10-6Belle PlazaSTILE Michigan Time _,. ~ VISACO., INC. • lil4 - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
@)  •  @)  

... 


page 20 The Observer· BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Elite Eight excite crowd 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Senior Spans Writer 
The sidelines were packed last night as hundreds of fans braved the chilly weather for last night's sweet 16 games in Bookstore tournament action at Stepan courts. 
All higher seeded teams advanced, except for Hollywood Schmegma, as some of the most exciting action took place. 
No. 7 Primetime has been unofficially declared the team to watch based on their perfor­mance so far. Originally seed­ed number 27, the group of Stanford Hall freshmen and sophomores defeated Vanilla Thunder. 21-17. 
Dark horse Dos Geses, seed­ed sixth, crusherl Bring Out the Gimp III, 21-9. The trio of 

-
Hyan Healy, Chris Clevenger, and Mike Denvir along with brothers Bill and Alex Gese are going to give Muddy Waters their toughest contest yet. 
"We match up well. There are slashers and big men on both teams. We're looking for­ward to the game, " said Dos Geses' Denvir. 
Deke Cooper's one man show wasn't enough for Show Me the Money as they lost to No. 1 Corby's, 21-13. Corby's showed their balance as Bob Baxter poured in eight points. Fellow forward Dan Fannon netted five in a game which 


-
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Sean Bodkin of Yin and Yang attempts a shot in his team's 21-15 loss to Muddy Waters last night. 
DOU[I 
u n u n 
[J 0 u u [I 11 u u 
". 

-r r n -~_1.1_ I 
• 
STUDENT ACCOUNTS 
The Office of Student Accounts will be closed on Monday, May· 5, 1997. 
We will be moving to 636 Grace Hall. 

_.... 
Our last day in the Main Building will be Friday, May 2. 

·--~----------------------~------~--~~--~--~--~--------------------------------------_j 
was indicative of Corby's con­
tinued improvement. 
"I think we're getting there. Every game we get better as the level of competition gets better," said Baxter, who was a member of last year's run­ncr-up Showtime. . 
Guards Jeff Kloska and Kevin Carretta also showed their ability, as they combined for seven points. The game ended when Carretta displayed his deceptive quickness as he drove· the length of the court for the for a layup. 
"Show Me the Money wrote checks they couldn't eash. You show me the money and I'll show you Corby's. Once we play the level of eompetition equal to ours, we will be com­pletely satisfied," said Fannon. 
Second-seeded Malicious · Proseeution struggled early, jumping to a 11-7 lead at half­time over Vanilla Kernals. Vanilla Kernals closed the game to 13-11, but then Malieious Prosecution pulled away for a 21-12 win, capital­izing on the outstanding play of Stu Healy and Neil Jakobe. 
"We played great except for one spurt that they had when we let down defensively and they poured it on. But other than that, I think we played the kind of game needed to win," said Healy. 
Third-seeded Muddy Waters defeated Yin and Yang, 21-15 after getting off to a slow start, spotting Yin and Yang a 6-1 lead. The forward tandem of Lamont Bryant and Leon Wallace eontinued to 

dominate the boards, and Jarious Jackson proved what'a danger he can be at guard. 
In other aetion, Pete Cansler went on a seeond half tear, netting six points as No. 9 BW' 3's Bolivian Yaks beat Hollywood Schmcgma, featur­ing basketball player Matt Gotsch, 21-15. 
Swoosh III experieneed another tournament scare, but this one wasn't injury-related. Thirteenth-seeded And One took a 11-10 halftime lead, largely based on the flashy play of guard Albert Jones and the hot hand of Troy O'Sullivan, but faltered late as Swoosh won the game, 21-15. Swoosh's Darnell Smith and Matt Campbell provided late game boosts, outlasting the battered And 1 players. 
And 1's Anthony Watts played with a shoulder injury, and re-separated his shoulder late in the game. Swoosh may have matchup problems in its next game but proved to be one of the most poised and bal­aneed teams in the tournament with the eomebaek win. 
"We got down early. but then we went on the run in the see­ond half. We're starting to really gel at the right time," said B e n e d i c t Roc c h i-o of Swoosh. 
presents: 

SABOR LATINO 
(11 Pes CAMPUS BAND) 
FRIDAY APRIL .15 
Doors Open at 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID 
Romy and Michelle R 
1:45 4:00 6:45 9:15 
Liar, Liar PG13 

12:30 2:45 5:15 7:45 10:00 
Anaconda PG13 

12:00 2:15 4:30 7:15 9:30_ 
McHales Navy PG 

2:00 4:45 7:30 9:50 
Times valid through next Thursday 
*No passes • 

Friday, April 25, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• TRACK AND F!HD 
Track squad aims high as they look to finish season strong 
Observer Staff Report Jeff Hojnacki who took home a 23 feet, 10 inches. The fresh­
first place finish in the man will look to continue his 

With the Big East University division of the 800-fine performing as crunch time Championships and the Purdue meters with a mark of 1:48.19. approaches for the Irish. Invitational looming, Notre Freshman speedster Also placing in the top five of Dame's track and field squads Dominque Calloway finished their respective events were are hoping to build on last fifth in the 100-meter hurdles Danny Payton, Kelle Saxen, weekend. as she ran up against difficult Katie Knect, Carolyn Long and 
The squad is coming off a competition. In the 200-meters Gretchen Weiher. Payton came solid outing at the Michigan she placed third with a time of in fourth in the 4oo:meters State Spartan Invitational in 23.83. Fellow hurdler Errol with a time of 49.78. Saxen East Landing, Mich. and the Williams' time of 14.15 was helped the women's side as she Mt. SAC Relays in Walnut, good for fourth in his 110-me­placed third in the high jump Calif. ter heat. with a jump of 5 feet, 3 3/4 
Sophomore pole vaulter Mike In Spartan Country, junior inches. Knecht's 94 feet, 8 Brown rewrote the Irish record Chris Smith blew away the inches throw was good for books as he recorded an Irish competition in the javelin with third in the javelin. record with a vault of 1 7 feet, 3 a toss of 189 feet, 9 inches. Long and Weiher has solid inches in California. Brown be­Smith's nearest competitor finishes in the 800-meters as came the first wearing the Blue could only manage to throw 25 they finished fourth and fifth and Gold to break the 17 foot feet within Smith's first place respectively. mark as the previous record finish. Every meet means more and was 16 fect, 11 inches." Long jumper Marshaun West more for the Irish tracksters as 
Also impressive was senior placed second with a jump of their season is winding down. 

"Time and Distance Are No Longer Your Friends" 
April 28 
2:00p.m. 102 DeBartolo 

Information Technology and Networking by David Randall Beering 
Senior Staff Telecommunications Analyst Amoco Corporation 
Th 
competitive landscape is changing rapidly, due in large part to dramatic advances in einformation technology. In particular, we are witnessing the convergence of what were previously disparate technology industries into one, seamless capability. These· industries include computers, fiber optics, traditional telephone technology and services, and computer data networks. Also, the trends shaping the future of communications are being accelerated by the deregulation which is sweeping across many industries and geographic regions. Mr. Beering will discuss global industry trends which are driving enterprises to rely on information technology and agile telecommu­nications infrastructures -not just to do business, but as a means of survival. The context of this presentation will he ARIES, the "ATM Research and Industrial Enterprise Study," a joint technology development project-funded by the American Petroleum Institute -that involves more than 30 Petroleum, Telecommunications, Medical, and Government organizations. Mr. Beering is the ARIES Project Director. 
Organized by the College of Engineering Endowed by the Charles Edison Fund Department of Computer Science & Engineering 



~~klay A-fove Out ~97,, 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
·­
10 am-Spm• 
Stepan Basketball Courts Monday, May 5th-Saturday, May lOth Wednesday, May 14th-Saturday, May 17th Monday, May 19th Lyons Basketball Courts Wednesday, May 7th -Saturday, May lOth 
In The Lobby Of Le Mans Hall Wednesday, May 7th-Saturday, May lOth Friday, May 16th 
$1.00 Off Shipping PER BOX 
FREE PICKUP 

Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. 
Permanent Location Martin's Plaza-S_R. 23 Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm 
Sat: 10am-6pm 


277-6245 





..... 
-
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
The lacrosse team will have to be on top of their game this weekend. 
The Winner of the Weel< is picl.cd from the wcel<s Call271-0125 now, to become the next winncr.71te 
Winner o/tire Week receit•es $8 towards tfw meal of !tis or lwr c/Joice. 
ists 

presents 
The Screw Steve Miller Band Show A Comedy Sho hat1 
1 . 
w.~(eL• "b A d. .
\ l:f'ne 1 rary u Itorium 
Tonite! 7:30p.m. 
en! (but you c.~n still make it to the concert afterwards if you really want to) 
hy? 
Because you're a good person. You deserve this opportunity to laugh your pants off amidst the hectic end of the year cramming. 

},ree Sticks, Wrist Bands, and Cracker Jack... 
Friday, April25, 1997
The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEr{S lACRO~SE 
ND prepares for Harvard 
Matchup with Crimson could prove pivotal 
By ERIK KUSHTO Sports Writer 

Teams are defined by how they respond to adversity. Many teams will roll over and sulk after a disappointing loss. For a few, however, setbacks will bring a team together and ignite a fire of determination. 
For the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team, this weekend's contest against the .Harvard 
http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
Check it out. 
Women's Liturgical Choir 
and 

Notre Dame Handbell Choir 

Vespers Concert 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
27 April 1997 
8:00PM (immediately following Easter Vespers) 
(CMPUS 
-
MNI5TRY 

Crimson could be that defining moment. 
The Irish lost a close match against Massachusetts. Despite being down 6-0 early in the second half, the Irish scored 5 consecutive goals, falling short with a score of 6­5. 
"We were pretty disappoint­ed," explained senior captain Dave Cashin. "It took us a while to get going. I think we showed a lot of heart in com­ing back. We didn't just roll over at 6-0. We felt like we let one get away." 
"We had them on their heels, but it seemed like they got off the hook." 
The Irish will have to play much better this weekend to defeat the 16th ranked Crimson. "Harvard is just as good as Massachusetts. They have a strong attack, but I think we match up well," said Cashin. 
Sunday's home season finale will have special significance for the senior captain. "It is kind of a sad feeling. It is four years coming to end. It is bit­tersweet, but at the same time I am excited for the (NCAA) tournament. As long as we can get three or four more wins it should be alright," he said. 
The game is scheduled for 2 
p.m. Sunday Moose Krause Stadium. 

Friday, April 25, 1997 The Observer· TODAY page 23 MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIY AN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


S H  A H  
T E  R I  
E R  I N  



0 
0 
_j 0 
®" 
Ul 
" ~ 
c 
... 
" 
... 
0 
Rt.I"\EMBER I WI-\ AT WE ~ DO HE.RE 1"\IGHT SE.EM ~ LIKE. CRII"\INI\L FRAUD t BUT IT'S NOT. IT'S ~ 1"\1\R.K.ETING 
.1 ..: ~ 
"!! 
·;; 
:::> 
... 
0>
.. 
:... 
L 
55 Not in quantity 
56 Proteus and Valentine, for two noted examples 
57 Whence much color of fall 58 See 1-Across 
DOWN 
1 Between half and all 2 Snack since 
1912 3 Kind of forces 4 Baseball 
All-Star, 1934-44 5 You needn't 
press it 6 Firebird 7 Popular 30's 
dance 8 Kind of master 9 City in Genesis 
10 Massey of "Balalaika" 11 Stop working so hard 
28 Like Milos Forman
12 Roasting platform 29 Like life in Italy, 13 Lawyer/writer maybe Gardner 30"Aias" 14 Chrome yellow 
32"--War"
and others (Nick Stone 
22 Charlotte-­
book series) 23 Face lost in the 
33Thefolks
crowd 34 Controversial 
24 Besides what's event
here 25 Leg up 3&Doc 26 Mole-colored 41 Bickle's 27 He went portrayer, in 
through Hell "Taxi Driver" 


MIKE PETERS 

SCOTT ADAMS 


42 Watch bearing 48Common 43 Girl who meets 

request the Duchess 49 "If you--...!" 44 Skinflint (threat) 45 Dweller in 50 Crash, so to 
Paradise speak 46Winearea 51 Certain horse 47 Traveling bag 54 It's for the money 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: AI l'acino, Talia Shire, Ella Fitz­~erald, Paul Mazursky 
DEAR EUGENIA. Last April, I purchased a business from a couple of unscrupulous people. At the time, the previous owners showed me fig­ures that looked good. Several months later, I found out that these figures were extorted. It has cost me a bundle, and to make a long story short, I'm almost broke. I also took out a five-year lease. Am I going to sell this business? Also, should !listen to my husband? Every time I do, things don't work out. He was born on july 25, 1939, and I was born on Sept. 11, 1946, at 8:00a.m. 
Pat 
DEAR PAT: You didn't submit the date of the purchase of the company. That would help me determine when you will sell. If your husband's name is in partnership with you, you stand a better chance of selling the business. His chart indicates that money will not be a problem over the next couple of years. As for your chart, you are worrying instead of working. If you put in the effort, you will get returns. The next couple of years will be limiting financially. Work as a couple in order to make your business flourish. Based on your information, you should give this business another chance. After all, once upon a time, the business was making a profit. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Travel 
will be tiring but lucrati\'e. Your i-ltu­
ition will lead you in the right d:rec­
tion. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): l'ast 
unpleasant memories may sur~Jce. 

Born Today: You must be careful not to make the wrong choices this year. Your tendency to trust the ones you shouldn't could easily lead to your demise. This is a period of transition and acceptance, not one to initiate change. 
Symphony Orchestra plays " by George Gershwin in its tn'ii•i'<rh,t'at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. program are "Le tombeau de ice Ravel, "Fanfare for the salon Mexico," both by Aaron director. The concert is free 
Va;!lri>i•'"'"'~~· .are here. Come to room 108 of your reserved copy. Today is can't make it, call631-7524. 
997 Latino Formal "Carnaval" will be sold at the door. The ny will take place on at. Mary's dining hall. Doors will 
• p.m, andwill close at 8 p.m. for dinner. All 
·with outstanding ticket reservations and charge$ Ji!Ust contact Juanita Alejandro at 634-0694 before 12 p.m. Saturday. The formal is presented by La Allanza. 
-

Do your best to !-.L'llle these 1!-.Sue.-. niKl' and for aiL 
GEMINI (May 22-june 21): Your l'll\Olional reactions may gPt you into hol water. You may hurt "iomeone'~ feelings without even knowing it. 
CANCER (june 22-july 22): You may be having difficulty getting your point across. Take your time and be precise. Put some effort into your do­mestic surroundings. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): You arc more interested in entertainment and having fun than in working right now. You should take another look at your direction. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Don't open up a can of worms. Past experi­ences that were stressful should be left alone, regardless of how hard it is to say no. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 23): Do some research today that will bring you new ideas to present at a later date. Place a call to someone who can't get out. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): You may find yourself doing a little travel­ing today. Visit friends and relatives whom 1 ou don't spend much time with. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): Your contributions have not gone un­noticed. Good news should come by phone or mail. You should be eager to celebrate your good fortune. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 20): Secret affairs may be exciting now, but the consequences later will by no means be to your liking. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): This 
is not the best day to ask for favors or 
money. You will have to go over your 
financial statements carefully. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
can make professional gains if you 
play your cards right. Look for oppor­
tunities to climb the ladder of success. 


~-­



• BASEBALL 

-

The Observer/Rob F1nch 

Irish centerfielder Randell Brooks patrols the outti'eld at Eck Stadium. Brooks helped his squad defeat Toledo yesterday in a back and forth thriller, 15-9. 
Irish hang on to defeat Rockets 
--· 
By KEVIN ROBINSON Sporrs Writer 
Despite a high scoring, back and forth battle against the Toledo Rockets, Notre Dame was able to pull ahead late in the game and win with a fmal score of 15-9. 
The Rockets came to Notre Dame with a record of 11­
25. This win brings the Irish its 30th win of the season, with 15 losses. 
The Irish pitcl!ing stall' was greatly depleted for this game, as night pitchers are injured. The latest injury came Wednesday night when a bad hop sent the ball into the eye of pitcher Darin Schmalz. The team is hop­ing that his swelling will go dovm and he'II be ready for action this weekend. 
The Irish finished the day with 15 hits, lead by Todd Frye and Mike Amrhein. each with three hits. The Rockets had 17 hits. lead by Ron Warga who finished the day 5-6. Greg Candlla added lhur hits of his own, including a triple. 

Early on, the game seemed gloomy for the Irish. Senior Wally Widelski started for the Irish, but the first six batters he threw against had hits, including four sin­gles, a double and a homerun over the wall in left field. This gave Toledo an early four-run lead. Toledo was helped by its staring pitcher, EugPnio Melendez, who retired the first three batters in the bottom of the first. The Rockets added another run to their lead in the SPC­ond inning, when third baseman Jason McLean's double drove in Ron Warga. 
The Irish responded to their deficit in the bottom of the second however with live hits and six runs. Senior Randall Brooks singled, driving in two runs-Todd Frye who singled through tho gap at short stop, and J.J. Brock. 
In the third inning, Brooks had to leave the game due to shin splints, and his status for the weekend is still questionable. 
Notre Dame was back in hot water in the fourth inning when a failed pick-oil' attempt at first advancrd the runner to third base. By the timr the damage was done, four runs were scored by the rockets. lead by Greg Cancilla's two-RBI triple. 
The Irish found an answer with freshman southpaw Mark Lapinskas. lie finished thn game for the Irish. recording seven strikeouts and two walks. This win was his first on the collegiate level. and bringing his record to 1-0. 
The bats kept working for the Irish in the four run, lirth inning, topped oil' by Jell' Wagner's honwrun deep to center field, which scored two for the Irish. This homerun was the first in 31 innings for Notre Daml~. 
see BASEBALL I page 18 


• SPRING fOOTtH\l..l 

Making more than a Minor impact 
By MIKE DAY leader must have heart. to the team to take that kind of Sports Editor Like a diamond in the rough, role," said Minor. "I don't think true leaders are hard to find. you can just show up one day True leaders are like dia­Kory Minor is that rare dia­and be called a leader. It's monds-precious and rare. mond. more like something you have 
Simply put. a lot goes into In becoming the heart and to earn." being a leader. A true leader soul of the Irish defense, Minor And as is the case with all doesn't seek attention and exhibited all the traditional leaders, Minor possesses a doesn't crave the lime light. lie leadership traits. The younger resumo that speaks for itself. sets an example for others and players look up to him, and tho In 1994. as a high school motivates those around him to older players respect him. lie senior, he was named defensive aim higher and reach further. continually improves himself player of the year by USA 
It takes more than talent to while trying to make those Today and was voted to just vir­be a leader. The individual around him better. tually every All-American team must be both respected and "As one of the more experi­The Observer/Brandon Candura 
inspirational. But most of all, a enced players, I think I owe it see MINOR I page 13 Junior Kory Minor has all the traits that make a great leader . 
.. 
Blue-Gold Game 

Softball at Franklin College 
~~ 
Saturday, I:30 p.m. 


s~ •Blue -Gold game analysis
.... \,i;..; Saturday, 12 p.m.
ft.; 
see pages 12-13
• 
Softball vs. Sr. John's 

Track and Field at
ATA 
Saturday, 12 p.m. 

SP Earlham College •Men's Lacrosse preview
• 
.... ·\,;;_., Invitational
Baseball at West Virginia 
see page 22
GIJ.AIND 

Saturday, 11 a.m.
Saturday, 12 p.m. 






