
• Can the Irish beat Stanford • The ND volleyball team looks to con­
FRATS & ALCOHOL 
this weekend? Check out the 

tinue its Big East dominance with the 
B After an MIT pledge died of an alcohol over­
match-ups in today's edition of 

beginning of conference play this week-
dose, an international frat announced it is banning
the Irish Insider. See insert 

end at the Joyce Center. Back page
alcohol from its houses. 7 



Friday, October 3, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 30 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Working for a living 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE ties to help afford the costs of a pri­AISistant News Editor vate college education. 
Finding a job 
"I am basically working here "I need money!" because I need the money," said In a setting such as Notre Dame, Patrick Villanova, a junior Keough the combined financial burden of Hall resident who works as a con­tuition. room. board, books. and sultant at the LaFortune computer

on campus is
personal expenses can be over­cluster. "I am not on financial aid whelming to students. with the University, but I still have 
With the 1997-98 school year personal expenses that this job demanding a priee of approximately helps me pay for. I feel like I need to $26,000, many students find it work to offset the cost of living
easier than it desirable and even necessary to here." earn money above what the Villanova, like many Notre Dame University or their parents supply. students, found the search for Thus, many students turn to on-and 

may seem
off-campus employment opportuni­
see JOBS/ page 6 
The Observer/Kevin Datum 

'w.·.·e really need students to work at the 
. dining hall, but to most people this is 
,-·• iwt an appealing job,' says Alana Tubito, i dining hall student manager. Pictured above, Seamus Higgins accepted a position working in the deli area of tl}e dining hall. Another popular place of employment on campus is Irish Gardens (above left), the florist in LaFortune Student Center. 
ND prof wins research prize 
McAdams. who is the first other works, McAdams is in the
McAdams wins 
political scientist to receive the process of completing his latest prize. was drawn to German study on Germany,renowned DAAD studies early in life. "Retrospective Justice and the 
"I started off in German phi­Spirit of Liberalism." prize for German losophy and, like a lot of Notre But his expertise in the field of German politics doesn't stop
Studies, research 'It's interesting that a there. By ERIN LUM place which ... has With a talent that extends 
beyond research into the rea,lm

News Writer 
been the source of some 

of instruction, McAdams won a Turning what interests him of the greatest cultural Robert K. Root Preceptorship for most into the focus of his acade­
outstanding teaching at
achiev..ements ... has 

Princeton University in 1989, success for Notre Dame chair also been the source of and a Charles E. Sheedy Award and professor 
mic career has been the key to for Exeellence in Teaching in the 
some of the world's 

College of Arts and Letters at ment and 
or govern­
greatest evils.' Notre Dame in 1995. international 
A. James McAdams, According to McAdams, his work on German politics
studies A. about Germany J a m e s 
attempts to understand the McAdams. 
"German Question" more clear­In recogni­
ly. tion of his Dame students, went abroad to "The great thing (about study­Berlin and learned German and ing Germany) is that the German 
achievements. McAdams McAdams will 
had some wild experiences," he question will never go away," receive the prestigious DAAD 
said. McAdams said. "It's interesting Prize for Distinguished These experiences, coupled that a place which has· offered Scholarship in German Studies with unanswered questions the world so much and has been in a eeremony on Nov. 5 at New about Germany's political history the source of some of the great­York City's World Trade Center. and future, produced a fascina­est cultural achievements of the 
Since his years as an under­tion that led to McAdams living last few hundred years has also graduate interested in Germany in both East and West Berlin, been the source of some of the and its political questions, 
and authoring two books: "East world's greatest evils. McAdams has brought more 
Germany and Detente" and "Both I and the Germans can "Germany Divided." In addition ask for years to come why this
than two decades of research and study to the field. to co-authori!J.g and editing has been the case," he said. 
Ten ND physicists help discover new particle 
By MALIN STEARNS News Writer 
Thanks in part to four Notre Dame professors and six Notre Dame graduate students, a new sub-nuclear particle was recently discovered. 
Acting with a team of researchers from around the country, the physicists uncov­ered evidence of a previously undetected particle, dubbed an "exotic meson" because of its unconventional composition. 
Professors Neal Cason, William Shephard, John LoSecco and James Bishop, who make up the Elementary Particle Physics Group, worked in cooperation with 47 other researchers from six institutions to find evidence of the new exotic meson. 
Their research was pub­lished in the Sept. 1 issue of Physical Review Letters. 
"Our observation of the exot­ic meson is significant to understanding the basic forces at work between the elemen­tary particles," Cason said. "Comparing our results with current theoretical models will allow us to begin the detailed understanding of these forces." 
A meson is a very unstable, medium-mass elementary par­ticle with a short life span that is similar to but smaller than a proton or neutron. A typical meson is composed of one quark and one antiquark. while the composition of this new exotic meson is somewhat different. 
"We discovered a meson that we know is not made up of a quark and antiquark, which means it must be an exotic meson," said Cason. "There are a number of different kinds of exotic mesons and we're now going to begin work to determine which kind this is." 
The experiment, titled E852, was funded by the High Energy Physics and Nuclear Physics Divisions of the National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy through the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island. The researchers used high-energy particle beams to 
see MESON/ page 6 



page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, October 3, 1997 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
An issue worth covering 
My original intention with this column, my first foray into journalism, was to raise a very serious issue, but the other night I got so worked up over something that I had no choice but to commit 
Dan McDonough

my thoughts to print.Although I still plan Assistant Viewpoint Editor to use The Observer as my mouthpiece to the Notre Dame com­munity on topics such as racism, urban decay, and other weighty issues, I must vent my frustrations. What, you ask, could deter me from my envisioned diatribe on one of the most press­ing issues of our lives? The Notre Dame campus music scene. The other evening, at one of the local "cocktail and sandwich" establishments in South Bend, I was enjoying a beer with my friends (while this concept flies in the face of the ridiculous ideas expressed by some guy who sounds like he has never had a warm Busch Light on a cold November morning once in his life, rest assured that my friends and I like beer}. A band who I won't name started playing, and they sounded like they knew how to play. After their first tune, they played a cover of "Down With Disease" by Phish. Now I am not going to claim that I'm a big Phish fan, but I enjoy some of their stuff. Everything was fine, a young band was warming up by jam­ming on a song they all knew. Fine. Suddenly, things got really ugly ... I mean really, really unattractive. This band had the audacity to play "Ants Marching." For close to three and a half years I have liked that song, despite the best efforts of popular radio and women's dormitories to destroy it. I am going to Chicago tomorrow to see the Dave Matthews Band~ and I had to stand there and listen to these kids tear the heart out of that song and throw it into the two inches of brown shnack on the floor of this seedy. underage bar. The band went on to play covers of "Discotheque," "Come on Eileen," "Istanbul, Constantinople," "We're an American Band," "It's The End of the World as We know It," "I Just Want to Fly" and ·:Goodbye," that Third Eye Blind song that was on the radio roughly 40 million times this summer. Even Stomper Bob, the headliner of the evening's festivi­ties, played a terrible cover of "Beast of Burden" by the Stones. 
T.S. Eliot wrote an essay entitled "Tradition and the Individual Talent," and it is an astoundingly brilliant yet accessible discourse on art, artists, and tradition -go figure. What he says is that it is important to study other artists' work, but you need to develop your own style. Playing covers is a cop out. Especially covers that are trans­posed note for note. 
Rock and roll, or whatever you choose to label it, stems from spontaneity and energy; copying someone else's music is not energiz­ing, it's a cute little trick that is the result of junior high music lessons and years of play­ing an instrument seemingly out of habit. 
Now before I get a drum stick shoved in any uncomfortable places, let me stop being so bitter and offer some constructive criti­cism. My advice to these musicians: You can play, and I believe you can play well, just make your own music and everyone will be happy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Heather Cocks  Graphics  
Nicole Swartzentruber  Dave Piening  
Sports  Production  
Sarah Dylag  Heather Cocks  
Allison Krilla  Laura Petelle  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Tara Churik  Meg Kroener  
Accent  
Joe Weiler  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday excepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member ot rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Number of executions on pace to reach all-time high 

WASHINGTON 

Executions at U.S. prisons have reached a 40-year high this year, with 57 convicted murderers put to death and three months to go. 
Dwight Dwayne Adanandus' execu­tion by injection Wednesday in Texas brought the nationwide yearly total to its highest level since 1957, when 65 people were subjected to capital punishment. 
This year's total could surpass the 1957 number if executions continue at the current pace, aided by stream­lined appeal processes in federal courts and some state courts. 
"There are going to be more execu­tions in the future as these cases get speeded up" as a result of federal and state laws shortening the appeal process, said Richard Dieter of the Death Penalty Information Center, a Washington-based group that is 
Yeltsin hasn't ruled out re-election bid 
NIZHNY NOVGOROD, Hussia 
President Boris Yeltsin suggested Thursday that he hasn't ruled out another four years in office, despite promises a month ago to respect con­stitutional limits and stop at two terms. Yeltsin's recent health problems and Russian law would appear to block the 66-year-old Russian leader from seek­ing a third term. Yeltsin himself 

declared on Sept. 1 that he would step down three years from now. "My term ends in 2000. I will not run any­more," Yeltsin said then. But some Yeltsin supporters reportedly had been looking for ways to allow him anoth­er four-year term -and the question remains legally murky in spite of the constitutional limit. He could claim that he was first elected in 1991 under the old Russian constitution and that he has not actually served two terms under the new one, adopted in 1993. Yeltsin him­self sidestepped questions Thursday, fueling speculation. "My associates and friends forbid me to speak on the issue," the president said while visiting a trade fair in this Volga River city. The elections "are three years away and it's too early to discuss this matter.... Why are you pushing me so early?" he added. 
Officials dub sumo wrestlers 'too fat' 
TOKYO 

For centuries, sumo wrestlers have been fat-real fat­and proud of it. But after watching the weight of top wrestlers balloon to as much as 600 pounds, officials for Japan's national sport have a word for the wide -slim down. "Some young wrestlers are too heavy to keep up with the training," Sho Sakaigawa, chairman of the Japan Sumo Association, told a news conference Thursday. "They're breathing heavily all the time; some even have trouble walking. They're too fat." Sumo is hoping the coming year will be a landmark of sorts ­professional sumo wrestlers will be featured in the open­ing ceremony of the Nagano Winter Olympics, which begin in February. Amateur sumo aficionados are even pushing to get the sport recognized as an official OI)Lmpic event. But while sumo remains one of the most popular spectator sports in Japan, along with baseball and soc­cer, its ability to draw fans to the six official 15-day tour­naments held each year has been wavering. Sakaigawa,· himself a former sumo wrestler, says obesity is partly to blame. The average weight of wrestlers in the sport's top divisions is a record 330 pounds. Because they are so heavy, the competitors are less athletic and more prone to injury, Sakaigawa said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
r·'"__,..../.:.:................................_.....0 H ,L 

Friday ~ 80 59 Saturday ~ 76 59 Sunday ~ 78 61 Monday ~ 71 47 
Tue~d~y -" r~ 66 51 
~,.~-..'\,\"'"""'·..--....,/ "":.,"" 

4,9,~9-Q-Q i) ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cfoudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
"'T"""r ....a.....a... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

© 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
concerned with what it says are inequities in how the death penalty is applied. 
There have been 415 executions nationwide since the Supreme Court ended a four-year moratorium on capital punishment in 1976. Of those, 137 were in Texas, including 30 so far this year. 
"There really is overwhelming sup­port for the death penalty in Texas," said Ward Tisdale of the state attor­ney general's office. "That's not to say we jump for joy when there's an execution. It's a somber moment for those involved." 
More than 3,200 people are on death row nationwide, and 13 of the 38 states with capital punishment laws have carried out executions this year. Virginia ranks second to Texas, with six exe­cutions. 
Woman outwits police in standoff 
ROBY, Ill. 
When police were ordered to bring Shirley Ann Allen in for a psychiatric exam, she turned out to be a whole lot more resourceful than they expected. Using her wits ­and a shotgun -the 51-year-old woman has held state troopers at bay in a standoff that went into its 11th day Thursday. She's fended off a tear gas attack by slathering lotion on her face and withstood bean bag bullets by wearing heavy layers of clothing. The avid canner is also believed to have stocked her home with an abundance of food that will allow her to wait out authorities. On Thursd~y. the teams of 15 or more troopers who have surrounded the home with loudspeakers, floodlights and bullhorns gave the widow a small moral victory, deciding to pull back and give her some space. "We've tried a variety of tactics over these 11 days to see if we can get Mrs. Allen to surrender to law enforcement authorities," State Police Director Terrance Gainer said. "None of that has seemed to work." Relatives said Mrs. Allen, a former nurse, had become increasingly depressed since her hus­band died of pancreatic cancer in 1989. Recently, neigh­bors noticed she stayed indoors most of the time and had let her beautiful garden become overgrown. The family obtained a court order for a mental evaluation when Mrs. Allen refused to see or talk to her mother and brother. 
Navy F-14 Crashes off East Coast 
WASHINGTON 
A Navy F-14 Tomcat fighter jet crashed Thursday in the Atlantic Ocean off the East Coast. The Navy said one crew member was rescued by a Coast Guard and a search was under way for another. The plane was on a routine training operation with other aircraft when it went down about 4 p.m. EDT off the coast of North Carolina or Virginia, said Mike Maus, a Navy spokesman. Both crew members ejected from the plane. Maus said. He said a Coast Guard J-Hawk helicopter rescued the fighter's radar intercept officer. A search was still under way for the pilot, Maus said. The fighter was assigned to the Oceana Naval Air Station at Virginia Beach, Va. The Navy said three of its ships were within 40 miles of the crash site and, along with aircraft from the Navy and Coast guard, were participating in the search. Maus also said the Navy has begun an investigation to determine the cause of the crash. The identities of the two crew members were withheld and Maus said he did not know if the radar intercept officer suffered any injuries. Harry Cral't, a Coast Guard petty officer, said the jet went down about 65 miles east of Elizabeth City. N.C. "We have recovered the backseater and he supposedly was in good shape ... ," Craft said. 
Pressvre 

H L EJ ES1 CUl EZJ tzJ ~ i) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V111 Associared Press 

Allantic City  60  49  Knoxville  78  47  Pembroke  62  39  
Cincinnati  72  54  Las Vegas  94  68  Plymouth Rock  59  41  
Duluth  74  52  Lillie Silver  62  43  San Antonio  90  68  
Fargo, eh?  84  57  Miami  88  73  Washington, D.C.  69  48  
Grand Junction  79  52  Orlando  86  67  Yuma  t03  75  



Friday, October 3, 1997 
• CORRECTION 
Due to a reporting error, an article in Wednesday's Observer, "ND professor sues to build new prison," misidentified the attorney representing the inmates. Charles P. Rice is a South Bend attorney with no affili­ation to the University. 
The writer also omitted the fact that the South Bend Tribune contributed to the report. 
Due to an editing error, the byline on the story was also misprinted. Sarah Nelson researched and wrote the original article. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE 0BSERVER.y.(AND.i!•
!! 

ANY OTHER PAPER PRODUCTS.) 
Unlimited Tanning 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Martin details spread of Catholicism in Congo 
Observer Staff Report 
Crucial to the spread of Catholicism in the Congo were the missionary nuns, who overcame cultural differences to encourage African women to embrace the religion, according to Phyllis Martin. 
Co-editor of "The Journal of African History," Martin began researching the rela­tionship between the nuns and African women in 1986. dividing its development into three chronological stages. 
The l'irst stage began with the initial arrival of French nuns in the late 19th century. according to Martin. The rea­son for their arrival was not clearly explained, but Martin presented the possibility that the head bishop of the Congo wanted the nuns to work with the locals, whom he consid­ered "little savages" and "child-like." 
She noted that in the first 20 years of the nuns' involve­ment with the Congo natives, one mission out of four sur­vived -the one located in the capital, Brazzaville. Martin attributed these early failures to the diseases that plagued the area. 
Compunding the effects of disease was a general lack of interest on the part of the 


University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near KMart 
272-7653 256-9656 
Football Fri. and Sat. 
1-6902 
Free Delivery on Campus 
r-----r-----r----­
1411 Lorse1Cheese P1zzo  I 1411 Lor~e I 1 Cheese P1zzo  1 11411 Lorse I 1 Cheese P1zzo I  
1 lwith 1 Topping 1 I  .  with  .  1  
$3.99  I 1  I I  Mult1ple Toppmgs  
I I  $4.99  I I  $5.99  
Offer expires Fri., 10/161----­ ...  Offer expires Fri., 10/16I_----...  Offer expires Fri., 10/16I_----_.  

3:05, 5:30, 7:50, 10:05 MONEY TALKS (R) 12:55, 3:10, 5:25, 7:35, 9:55 
THE PEACEMAKER (R) OTS * 
12:50, 3:35, 7:00, 9:45 THE EDGE (R) * 1:40, 4:3o. 7:45, 10:25 THE PEACEMAKER (R) DTS * 1:20, 4:15, 7:30, 10:15 U-TURN (R) * 1:00,3:45,7:10,9:50 ATHOUSAND ACRES (R) 12:45, 3:15. 5:45, 8:05, 10:30 FIRE DOWN BELOW (R) 7:15, 9:40 HERCULES/GEORGE (PG) 1:10 MEN IN BLACK (PG-13) 1:05,3:20, 
5:40, 8:00, 10:20 
WE OPEN "GANG RELATED" ON WED 10/8 
Times valid through next Thursday *No passes 
7pm ·1 am Sun.· Sat. 10 pm ·1 am 

Congonese, especially the women, for whom the new religion apparently presented no power of fascination, Martin said. 
She added that women were also discouraged from joining the mission because of their "productive and reproductive powers." 
The second phase of devel­opment began in the 1920s, when Catholicism became highly desirable, though Martin's research has not provided conclusive evidence to explain its popularity. 
Their common attraction to the religion brought the nuns and the local women closer together, Martin said, but cul­tural differences still kept most women from joining the mission. 
The success of this period can be attributed to the growth of the urban churches, which spread throughout the region until 1965. At that time, the Congo became a socialist government and many of the church's institu­tions were nationalized. 
However, Martin noted, this did not stop the African women's increasing attraction 
A friendly reminder from Notre Dame Press••• 
Professor George S. Howard will be reading from his new book. Ecological Psychology: Creating a More Earth-Friendly Human Nature, on Sunday, October Sth, at Barnes & Noble (460 I Grape Road, Mishawaka) 
7:00p.m. DON'T MISS ITI 

SUBS & SALADS 
Conveniently located in Martin's Plaza: Corner of23 & Ironwood 
277-2234 
r~-, r (8Jliifl ·~,I?t~ .. ~~· I l?e~ .. ~-~. ll?e'u~~. I 
~~~~y ~~~~ I ~ I I $~~~~ I
I Sub & a 32oz. Drink ar I I ~ I I (Cr{))N}jB\Q) I 
Regular Pnce, Get a c k• li\,fl ~ 4.\l
ISecond Regular 6" Sub I I 00 185I I ~WIJ l£..fi ~ I of equal or Lesser value (A Regular 6" Sub, Chips 
FREE! and 32oz. Drink.)
I I I for a I I I 
One order per coupon One coupon perIper customer per visit. I I d II I I customer per visit.. I 
1019197

1 Expires 1 1 0 ar.J 1 Expires 10/9/97 .J
.._ ___.... ._ ___
~--­
to Catholicism. 
As evidence, Martin pointed to the fact that, in 1970, the Mother Superior of the mis­sion was a congonese woman. 
The third phase witnessed the advent of the African nun. This was caused, in part, by the spread of disease which took the lives of many European nuns, Martin said. 
Another reason for the rise in African nuns, Martin said, was a new enthusiasm caused by the families or friends of the initial participants in the mission's schools, which were now nationalized under the new socialist government. 
Martin said her research has not yet provided a defini­tive explanation for the rise in participation by the con­gonese women. 
She said she is only halfway through her research, and that some answers may never be known since some events occurred over 100 years ago. 
Last night's lecture, entitled "Missionary Nuns and African Women in the Twentieth Century," was presented by the department of history. 
Germein Linares contributed to this report. 


-~--------------------~--~ ­

----------·---~---------~-----~---------------..---., 
Friday, October 3, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• CAPITOL BEAT 

~~JM[ C~tltJIElliLIEIE \WIEIEII{IENJD)
It\~ ;~·l,.__.__.;;;;;:JJ~--------;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ House approves student loan bill 
~~~w~$ oct. 5-6, 1997 
~ 
By JENNIFER FLESCHER federal student loans through a The Emergency Student Loan SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE HAS SCHEDULED THE 
Northwestern University Medii! News Service separate program within the Consolidation Act would cost an Department of Education -estimated $25 million, and the
FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES IN HONOR OF THE INAU­
WASHINGTON Federal Family Education Loans money would be taken from the The House Education and the -for one year. Unlike the direct administration funds for the
GURATION OF THEIR NEW PRESIDENT, 
Workforce Committee unani­loan program, which bypasses Direct Loan and FFEL programs. 
MARILOU ELDRED: 

mously approved a bill banks to give students' loan With a total loan administration Wednesday that would alleviate money directly to their schools, budget of $532 million, some a backlog of more than 84,000 FFEL loans are processed fear the cuts would send the 
federal student loan consolida­through banks and creditors. Direct Loan program into fur­tion requests resulting from a The bill is scheduled to come ther crisis. 
Sun., Oct. 5 
4:45 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Student Events on the Library 
law intended to simplify and before the complete House of The debate over the Direct Green. Activities include a picnic and a 
speed the college loan process. Representatives on Oct. 20 Student Loan Program is expect­The bill is a direct response to under procedural rules that ed to continue in the coming
"Q&A" session with President Eldred. 
Education Department adminis­allow certain bills to get speedy year. The Education Committee 
trative problems created by the consideration. The measure is expected to recommend 
1996 Direct Loan Consolidation could be signed into law as early replacing Department of
Mon., Oct. 6 
program, which allows students as Nov. 1 if the Senate passes Education administration of the and recent graduates to simplify the measure in time, but its pro­federal loan programs with a
10 a.m. Mass at the Church of Loretto 
their bookkeeping while offering posed funding is expected to cre­separate entity within the 
11:30 a.m. Inaugural luncheon, invitation only. 
a variety of payment options. ate controversy in the Senate. department that would operate The department put a freeze on "The act will help students like a private contractor as part
2 p.m. Inauguration ceremony in O'Laughlin 
new applications and announced who are currently unable to con­of the 1998 reauthorization
Auditorium 
that more than 84,000 applica­solidate student loans," said Rep. package. 4 p.m. Reception in the court of Le Mans Hall. 
tions were backlogged. Howard McKeon, R-Calif. "1 have This story appears courtesy of The emergency bill would total lack of confidence in the the U-Wire. allow immediate consolidation of Direct Loan Program." 
Renowned quartet to play in library auditorium 
Special to The Observer Today the group is made up of Matthias Michael Endie's book, "The Neverending The Quartet is an annual participant in Lingenfelder and Jens Oppermann, vio­Story," in which Auryn an amulet the Washington Schubert Festival, hosted The Auryn Quartet will present a con­lins; Steuart Eaton, viola; and Andreas bestowing on its owner great powers of by Georgetown University, and has per­cert of Schubert quartets at the Arndt, cello. imagination and inspiration. formed in Carnegie Hall's Weill Recital 
University of Notre Dame on Oct. 27 at 8 Tickets for the performance, $6 for The group is based in Cologne, Hall. 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library general admission and $3 for students Germany, and often appears at the The Auryn Quartet will record the com­Auditorium. and senior citizens, will be available at Cologne Philharmonic. Concert tours plete Schubert quartets for the "cpo''
Four members of the European the door or can be reserved by calling the have taken the quartet to major concert label in 1997. It previously recorded Community Youth Orchestra (ECYO) LaFortune Information Desk at 1-8128. halls around the world, with regular per­compact discs on the Accord and German founded the Auryn Quartet in 1981. The group's name is taken from formances at London's Wigemore Hall. TACET labels. 

When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-together, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems ore driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon you'll toke technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule on interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. 
WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON OCTOBER 10, 1997. CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW. 
Raytheon
Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
EXPECT GREAT THINGS
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 3, 1997 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
employment fairly easy. Because there are so many jobs available to students on campus, the only difficulty students face in fmding work is discovering a job that suits their own needs. 
"Right now, there are about 179 departments and 26 dormito­ries that have prospective posi­tions available to students," com­mented Stephanie Kovatch, administrator at the Office of Financial Aid. "That means there are thousands of opportunities for students, whether they are being helped by the Financial Aid office or not." 
A common misconception sur­rounding the availability of on­campus employment is that most departments prefer students who are on a work study program or being helped in some other capacity by the Office of Financial Aid. 
This is not the case, according to Kovatch. 
"There are a lot of good oppor­tunities for work on campus. Perhaps if this was a smaller institution with fewer available work positions, students with 
Meson 
continued frorq page 1 
make the discovery. 
Other institutions participat­ing in the collaborative project are Brookhaven, the University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth, Northwestern University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and Moscow State University and the Institute for High Energy Physics in Russia. 
!] f1J @ 
financial need would have an edge," she said. "But there are so many places to fill, most depart­ments will hire any qualified stu­dent if they have a position avail­able." 
Within University departments such as the Office of Information Technology and Food Services, several job opportunities are available to students ifthey apply. 
"Food Services has enough slots [for work] because we will take any student that asks for a posi­tion," said Dave Prentkowski, director of Food Services. "The question for us is never whether or not the student is receiving financial aid, but if the student is willing to make the effort to work for us." 
The reason that finding on-· campus employment seems diffi­cult to some students is that many of them have a specific idea of what type of position that they want. 
"We really need students to work at the dining hall, but to most people this is not an appeal­ing job," Alana Tubito, a dining hall student manager, explained. "We have most of the positions filled at the beginning of the year, but then people get tired of the job and quit and we have lots of positions to fill." 
Food Services is the largest on­campus student employer, but there are other University depart­ments that employ large numbers of student employees. The OIT hires most of its student workers in the spring for the upcoming fall semester, with 90 to 95 percent of students taking jobs in the com­puter clusters or as Resident Computer Consultants. 
"Basically, our application process involves an on-line appli­cation form which our current student managers evaluate for technical skills that fit the needs of the particular clusters," explained Scott Siler, a manager with the OIT. "The applicants who seem qualified then inter­view with the student managers and are selected based on per­sonal and technical skills." 
Like Food Services, the OIT does not consider whether the student is receiving fmancial aid. 
"Hiring is based purely on skill," Siler reiterated. 
Students who do receive finan­cial aid may actually face more difficulty finding on-campus employment than those students not receiving financial aid. Brian Labutta, a sophomore from O'Neill Family Hall, was told that he would not be eligible for a job at the Computer Store without 
Think you're a writer? 
JPrCOJv~ it<+ 
Call The Observer. News: 1~5323 Accent/Saint Mary's: 1~4540 Sports: 1 ~454 3 
changing the format of his finan­cial aid package. 
"The Office of Financial Aid told me I had several options if I want­ed to have a job on-campus," he said. "The government is current­ly subsidizing my loan, but they [Office of Financial Aid] told me that I would have to pay the inter­est myself if I was employed with the University. But the money I would make at this job would barely cover the interest, so what was the use? I felt like they were saying I was too rich to have a job and receive financial aid." 
Jim Malloy, associate director of Financial Aid, explained the process. "Basically, loans, schol­arships and jobs are all coordi­nated together to comprise a fmancial aid package that tries to meet most of the student's needs." 
Malloy said most students who receive financial aid have a spe­eilic amount of work study time allotted into their package. The particular student is responsible for working the hours specified; if a student does not meet the maxi­mum number of hours, he or she is not penalized by financial aid, but that student will not reenive the money they would have made during those hours. 
"We encourage campus 
employment, but we also under­stand that some students do not feel they have the time to put into a job because of academics, sports, and clubs. What we try to do is help the student receive as much help fmaneially as we can," Malloy stated. 
The problem that Labutta over­turned is one that is built into the fmical aid system: since on-cam­pus employment is technically considered financial aid, conces­sions need to be made to the financial aid package if a student who has not been working decides to find a job. 
"We assess the amount of need that a student needs... if they become employed on campus, we have to balance their package so they still receive the same amount from the University," Malloy continued. 
In Labutta's ease, the financial aid package was reviewed allow­ing him to keep the subsidy on his loan while working at the Computer Store. He still feels, however. that he is "not receiving enough money from the University." 
"We are working on meeting every student's need," Malloy stated. "We always have a strong commitment to every undergrad­uate student." 


Taking Applications for Fall '98 and January '98 


Friday, October 3, 1997 The Observer • COLLEGIATE NEWS page 7 
International fraternity bans alcohol from houses 
Special to The{)bsecver 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 

Phi Gamma Delta, an interna­tional collegiate fraternity with 6,300 members in the U.S. and Canada, announced Thursday it will ban alcoholic beverages from all its college houses. 
The fraternity said it will make all its houses alcohol-free by July 1, 2000, a goal it shares with Phi Theta Delta and Sigma Nu. two other international fra­ternities which announced simi­lar decisions earlier this year. 
Phi Gamma Delta's announce­ment comes after the alcohol­related death Monday of Scott Krueger, an 18-year-old pledge at the fraternity's Massachusetts Institute of Technology chapter. 
Krueger died three days after he was found with a blood alcohol level more than five times the state's legal limit. 
"We are very concerned and express our deepest sympathy to Scott Krueger's family," said Douglas Dittrick, president of Phi Gamma Delta's governing board. "Alcohol has too much influence on today's college stu­dents and our members. We must take action against it. 
"The college experience should be one of opportunities to develop responsibility, leader­ship, and social skills," he con­tinued. "Tragically, we have just seen how imperative it is to combat the culture of alcohol among college students." 
The board adopted the sub-stance-free resolution mid­August, and began informing alumni, undergraduates, and their parents of the decision shortly thereafter. 
"We are asked, why set a deadline in the year 2000 rather than now'? We might wish we could eliminate the problem by edict, and we hope many chap­ters will act quickly," Dittrick said. "But real success will come only from educating the under­graduates. Changing the cul­ture, educating students on the risks of alcohol -these things take time." 
Phi Gamma Delta said it is considering implementing a number of incentives to encour­age its chapters to become alco: hoi-free as soon as possible. 

A Special Invitation 
Atrj!a

Announcing the Following Introductory Offers of. .. 
~a,.otJ 

r----------, :---$25---: :---s5o---: :---$6o---: :---$6s---:
:10% OFF: 
IH"l" I 

I I : Cut & : : Color,Cut& : :p C :
! Aveda ! 1 1 1 Style 1 : erm, ut: : tttes &: I I ~~ One ~~ I I I : Cut& :
11 1 1
1 1

! Retail ! Style 1 Process 1 1 & Sty e 1 
I I I I 1 I : Style :
I I 
L----------~ L----------~ L---------~ L----------~ L----------~ 
•Please call to schedule your appointment­
~------------~--------~ 
• NEW CLIENTS O~Jlj}f ~;w;
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. 
Ad must be presented to receptianist bi,forebL
You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and 
services areperformed;

we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
(Certain restrictionsapp/jl >!iil~ll!i
We hope to see you soon. 

Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires October 15, 1997. 
ATRIA SAIDN 
1357 N. Ironwood Drive • South Bend, IN 46615 • Tel. 219-289-5080 
The fraternity said some of its alumni plan to advise its under­graduate members of the dan­gers of substance abuse. The Betty Ford Center, located in Rancho Mirage, Calif., agreed to serve as a resource for partic­ipating Phi Gamma Delta alum­ni. 
Phi Gamma Delta was founded in 1848 at what is now Washington and Jefferson College in Pennsylvania. As it approaches its 150th anniver­sary. the fraternity has expand­ed to 120 chapters in the U.S. and five in Canada. Among its alumni are golfer Jack Nicklaus and former U.S. President Calvin Coolidge. 
This story appears courtesy of Business Wire. 


~OBSERVER 
is looking for candidates for the following new position: 
Wire Editor 
No previous experience required. If interested, please contact Heather Cocks, The Observer news editor, at 1-5323. Deadline is Oct. 10 at 5 p.m. 

Opening act by Matt Curreri at 8:1 5 pm 
9 pm LaFortune Ballroom Free Food Oct. 3rd -Friday 
Sponsored by SUB

FREE ADMISSION 

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 3, 1997 
MEDJUGORJE 
THE BETHLEHEM OF THE NEW MILLENNIUM 

Coming from Medjugorje on her way to addres~ Congress on the importance of the messages o peace being given to the world by Our Lady ir Medjugorje, Sr. Emmanuel will spend two day~ here with Fr. Daniel Ange giving a retreat to Notn Dame and St. Mary's students. Last Novembe1 15th the Holy Father enthusiastically blessed he1 mission spreading Our Lady's messages fron Medjugorje throughout the world! 
All are invited. 



-M~,~~~ ~m"t!;t ~ 

...__.......... 
-~--~~ 
·~n»~~­.r~~~--;~ 
~O!M-~~ 
·~e,-t..il'8nt­G~D.w3D'I: 
12$i18''tflllle~~
...
~~ 
11<""* 
-~~.,...~-­
1:4!'Ul04Dl 
,.-w~

............ 

<!Lnugrt&ll of tltt JJubrll &tales 'Houst Iff lbp:rtamtattuu 
·~· IJ.QI:. ~-5

Denni' Nollan 8ll!l997 Pr~~~ ()(ChiJdroo ofM«<jugol'(! 
P.O. Box 1110 
Not!'f10amc llldj;w 4(;5 5'6 
~>em· ft.tr No.lan, 
t' rn writ:ivs tQ thMi: )'\JU for 1W effcctr.-dy OQrn:tmmicatmg l<O us, in the ~o~<mal otfke, the many exciuos u.OO wonderfuf ev~ v.'hieh are ~ plac-e in the Bosnian '11~e of MedjugOte, · and the bo~ for peace .00 rocoocili4tion tlw;• offer to the world 
The CongreM~ional HJJman Flight! Caucus woold like to host a briditl.g for Sister Em.manuel when ihe 'lli'iU be in Washington, oo October 2:2, to ~our c.oiiCI!iUC$ ami ·!ltlli'f ""~lh the cxtrwrdin;ary ~e $he~ f()f the world, ~to ltmm how the ~e of MedjugOte tnMaged to maintain peace ~ • -~·of wm.mullity, even in the midst ofthe roott brutal .ad terrible 'WI! fooght around its premises in the pBSt few yws ru we appro&cll. the end ofthe millerulrum it is import*At that we gather u much infomlo1ltion and knowledge aa ~ble llhoot cooflict re~Wlution, .00 the Wl!YJ ~t poople ~ ~ tQ live tog~ in peace~ h4rmony We know 'i'i'hac Sisler~ wilnessod in Medjugofe has a great c~ion to make towards tl'iis gtJal &lld eoold be pertinent to many other problem ateu in the worht 
We would libMr. Dennis Nolan, Pre&denl ()(Slst.er Em.matrucl's .<\pestQ._~.Ihe Childnm of Mmjugore, lltld Marcia Smith and Ardath K.rollm', woo baVI! been put ofthe Mtld}ugore moveroent for many )'em to aoc'()mpamy i.be· Siner lind add their voiw 8:00 witness to the progr.mt We pl.n to ~e me event for W~y. <ktober Zlnd, at 2 pm in the ttftmoon Ill !he Gold·ROtnn in the Rwybum H<Juse office buildi~ where we can accommod&te a lArge rrumber ofpeople. 
We are looking fo.-ward to thi• $pedal evern 8:00 to the ~~ it v.'ilJ !)ling tct !he ~ of pta« 
i I
't 


TOM LANTOS 
YOUR PRESENCE AT THIS RETREAT WILL BENEFIT YOUTH THROUGHOUT THE WORLD! It will be filmed and presented as TV spe­cials throughout the US and Canada and translated and aired by TV stations in Lebanon, Poland, Ro­mania, Lithuania, the Caribbean, Mexico, Latin America, Singapore, Bangkok, Australia, and France. You will be part ofthe grace ofthis special time bringing the love ofour Mother-Notre Dame­to young people around the world! Give her back a few hours this weekend! 
Join us Saturday morning! 

After becoming a monk at 17, Fr. Daniel-Ange spent 13 years on an Island in the middle of a lake in Central Africa in order to learn mo­nastic life. Upon returning to France he spent 8 years in a hermitage on a mountain "Alone with God". After being ordained a priest in 1981 -the year Our Lady began appearing in Medjugorje-he started a youth ministry which is now active in more than 35 countries. 13 years ago he founded a school of evangelism and prayer for young people to dedicate 1 or 2 years of their young lives to God in order to "spread the good news". For the past 7 years they have gone on missions in Eastern Europe -especially in Russia. His biography states, "Most important: first he is a little child of God." 
.. .famous throughout Europe and the East-this is Fr. Daniel -Ange's first retreat in America-a special gift from Notre Dame-our Mother -to help us prepare for the great Jubilee of the year 2000. DON'T MISS IT! 
SATURDAY•OCTOBERll• beginning at 9:00AM & continuing all day OCTOBER 12 • SUNDAY • 9:00AM until12:00 NOON 
True to the experience of "Bethlehem" no place is being offered to us for our retreat at Notre Dame. For the location please call the President of"Children of Mary", Tim Monaghan (Siegfried • Room 202 • Tel: 634-0767) or Mary Kloska (Walsh • Room 363 •Tel: 634 -1432 Although it is not necessary to register beforehand, we ask that you do so. Registration forms can be picked up in front of Room 363 in Walsh and Room 202 in Siegfried. 
(We look to the students to help us by posting this page on the bulletin board in your hall!) 
page 9 

Friday, October 3, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
Teen crime rate drops sharply 
By MICHAEL]. SNIFFEN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Arrests of teen-agers for vio­lent crimes plunged 9.2 percent last year, and Attorney General Janet Reno said the second straight annual drop was not "a blip" but a real trend away from the juvenile crime wave that rose steadily from 1987 through 1994. 
At her weekly news conference Thursday, Reno called on Congress to allocate more money for after-school programs "to make it stick." The Republicans who control Congress are writing bills that focus on trying more teen-agers as adults. 
"This drop, I think, is real now," Reno said. "I don't think we can talk about it as a blip." 
The drop during 1995 was 2.9 percent, and Reno said she had "worried since that it might be a blip. But now ... we are making real progress." 
The FBI data also showed that 
arrests of teen-agers for murder 
dropped 10.7 percent in 1996, 
the third straight annual decline 
after a 169 percent increase 
between 1984 and 1993, when 
the juvenile murder rate peaked. 
But Reno was not ready to 
Juvenile Percentage Change 
Changes in the arrest rate for 

declare victory in her top priority. More than any attorney general since Robert F. Kennedy, Reno has roamed the nation speaking on youth crime and calling for a balance between tougher penal­ties for wrongdoers and preven­tion programs to keep kids out of trouble and help young offenders return to society. 
She thanked a reporter for not­ing that just Wednesday a Mississippi high school student was accused of killing three peo­-9.2% 
Dave PieningfThe Observer 
pie and that last weekend a 15­year-old allegedly murdered a kid selling candy door-to-door in New Jersey. 
"We still continue to hear of too many serious violent crimes committed by young people," Reno said. "We cannot be satis­fied by this reduction in youth violence." 
In 1996 for every 100,000 youths aged 10 to 17, there were 
464.7 arrests for violent crimes, down from 511.9 in 1995. 

' P R IN C I P L E S of S 0 UN D RET I REM EN T IN V E STING 
OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM. 
TIAA-CREF. 

W 
hen it comes to planning a comfort­an impressive range of ways to help you 
able future, over 1.8 million of create a comfortable and secure tomorrow. America's best and brightest count on From the guarantees of TIAA's top-rated TIAA-CREF. With $190 billion in assets, Traditional Annuity"" to the additional we're the world's largest retirement growth opportunities of our variable invest­company, the nation's leader in customer ment accounts, you'll find the flexibility and satisfaction, and the overwhelming choice diversity you need to help you meet your of people in education, research and long-term goals. And they're all backed by related fields? some of the most knowledgeable investment 
The reason? For nearly 80 years, managers in the industry. TIAA-CREF has introduced intelligent To learn more about the world's pre­solutions to America's long-term planning mier retirement organization, speak to one needs. We pioneered portable benefits. of our expert consultants at 1 800 842~2776 We invented the variable annuity and (8 a.m.-11 p.m. ET). Or better stilL speak helped popularize the very concept of to one ofyour colleagues. Find out why, stock investing for retirement planning. when it comes to planning for tomorrow, 
Today, TIAA-CREF's expertise offers great minds think alike. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 
0 £\ased on a sutvey conducted in 1995 by an independent organization in which 96% of respondents expressed overall satisfaction with TIAA-CREF. 00TIAA is one of only a handful of companies that currently hold the highest marks from the nation's leading independent rating agencies for stability. sound investments, claims-paying ability, and overall financial strength: A++ (Superior), A.l\l. Best Co.; AAA, DufF & Phelps; Aaa, J\\oody's Investors Servit·e; AAA, Standard and Poor's. TIAA's guarantees are backed by its claims-paying ability. These ratings of TIAA as an insurance company do not apply to CREF. CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Servit:es, lm:. For more complete information, including <:harges and expenses, call I 800 842-2733, extension 5509, for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
EPA hopes to use Internet to reduce water pollution 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT schools or local libraries, Associated Press Writer Browner said. She said people can access the information on WASHINGTON the Internet, then locate local 
Most of the country's water­watersheds by using zip codes sheds are polluted, the and even schools as locators. Environmental Protection The so-called Toxic Inventory 
Agency said Thursday. Seeking Report, which provides infor­public help for their recovery, mation about releases of toxic the agency is providing a new chemicals from thousands of way to get out quick informa­factories and manufacturing tion about local rivers and plants, has been widely viewed streams -the Internet. as a major reason that industry "Putting information into the has reduced toxic emissions. hands of citizens is the most Browner hopes that once the effective way of reducing pollu­public is armed with adequate tion," EPA administrator Carol information on watershed con­Browner said. It's as important ditions, local pressures will for the public to be informed bring about a reduction in pol­
about threats to regional lution entering waterways waterways as it is to know of from urban runoff and from toxic chemicals coming from chemicals and nutrients from nearby factories, she said. farms. 
Browner unveiled results of a The EPA assessment showed 
nationwide assessment of that 57 percent of the country's 
America's watersheds showing 2,111 watersheds -or water­
that more than half those drainage regions -have mod­
examined have pollution prob­erately serious or serious prob­
lems due primarily to runoff lems. 
from farms, factories and Only 16 percent have "good 
sewer systems. water quality," and 38 water­
The data for the first time sheds have serious problems 
will be available to the public with the prospects likely to get 
from computers in the home, worse. 
Count Me j/J f( 

or THE WoRLD FAMous 
LED BY 
GROVER MITCHELL 
c~~asie
the 
__Iea,r)lf the 

(37Thtnnli FALL GAIA 


WITH DRUMMER 7:30 p.m. Thursday, October 30 Indiana University South Bend 
BurcH MILES 

Main Auditorium 

Tickets: $35 a person A Dessert Reception 
I

Will Follow the Concert Call the IUSB Box Office 
illSB 

(219) 237-4203 

r-------------------------------­
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 3, 1997 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in 
employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local law. 

Goldman
SarJls 

MINDS. WIDE OPEN.'M www.gs.com 
Resume Drop Deadline 
October 6-7, 1997 · 
Please submit your resume to the Office of Career Placement 
Goldman Sachs will be conducting on-campus interviews next month 
36819 Notre Dame 10/6Ad 


Friday, October 3, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS page 11 
•IsRAEl

Cohen: Army can fire 
Drama unfolds for Netanyahu gov't 
on Air Force satellite 
Test may kick start new arms race, critics say 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Defense Secretary William Cohen gave the go-ahead Thursday for the Army to fire a laser beam at an Air Force satellite, a first-of-its-kind test that critics see as a step toward a new arms race. 
The purpose of the test. Cohen said in a statement issued by his Pentagon office, is to collect data for computer models used to develop ways to protect U.S. satellites against lasers. Cohen is at a NATO meeting in Europe. 
"It will not destroy the (satel­lite). result in any orbital debris. nor pose any risk to other satellites." the statement -;aid, adding that the test is ' fully consistent" with U.S. pol­icy and violates no internation­al laws. 
8 p.m., Sunday, October 5 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
$6 General Admisison $3 Students/Senior Citizens 
Tickets are available at the door, in advance at the LaFortune Box Office, or charge by phone (219) 631-8218. 
Calll-6201 for more information. 

VOLUME 3, NUMBER 2 



Can you be a hero? Can you make a difference? NIKE P.L.A.Y.CORPS trains college students to coach in local youth leagues. After the season, coaches receive $500 towards their tuition. Email me at colleen.henshaw@nike.com to find out more. 
--~---o---o-----o
4 .... ­
1 
3 

~ 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL/V fOOTBALL/V MEN'S TENNISN 
~ ~ I 
vs. ST. JoHN's 
AT STANFORD AT TAR HEEL INVITATIONAL
" _ WoMEN's TENNisN JACC, 7:00PM 
ALL DAY
WOMEN'S TENNISN

:;; 8 ECK CLASSIC 
MEN's SoccERIV 
ECK CLASSIC~ ~ EcK TENNIS PAVILION 

AT SMU 
ECK TENNIS PAVILION~ ALL DAY 

7:30PM 
ALL DAY 

-:; : • ~ AT TAR HEEL INVITATIONAL
:-~ ...g..... ~-···OI-. MEN'S TENNISN
a~ 
ALL DAY

~~r---~s----,---~T---~----~7~--~----~a----+===~9~==~----1~0~--~---------1-1--------~ 
~ ::; WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL/V I WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL/V WOMEN'S TENNISN fOOTBALL/V WOMEN'S TENNISN 
!;; ~ VS. CONNECTICUT WOMEN'S TENNISN VS. ILLINOIS STATE AT OHIO STATE INVITATIONAL AT PITISBURGH OHIO STATE INVITATIONAL 
~ ~ JACC, 2:00 PM ECK CLASSIC JACC 
ALL DAY 

WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL/V ALL DAY 
~ ~ MEN'S SOCCER/V ECK TENNIS PAVILION 7:00 PM WOMEN'S SWIMMING AT BOSTON COLLEGE, 2:00 PM WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
~ ~ AT TExAs CHRISTIAN, 1:00 PM ALL DAY 
& DIVINGN MEN's soccERIV & DIVINGN 
::: z WOMEN'S SOCCER/V MEN'S TENNISN 
NoTRE DAME RELAYS VS. SYRACUSE, 7:30 PM AT SOUTHERN ILLINOIS 
::' ~ VS. BOSTON COLLEGE AT TAR HEEL INVITATIONAL ROLFS AOUATIC CENTER 
WOMEN'S SOCCER/V 1:00PM 
" l? ALUMNI FIELD, 1:00 PM ALL DAY 
4:00 PM 

~ :;;L-~~~~~~-r======~====~~----~~----~----~~----~~--~~~~~j_~--~~~--_j~A~T~GE~O~RG~ET~OW~N~,~11~:0~0~AM~------------__j 
z ~-I 12 13 15
:; ::: 14 
~ '!<: WOMEN's MEN'S SOCCER/V 
~ 8 VOLLEYBALL/V VS. WESTERN MICHIGAN 
~ ~ AT PROVIDENCE ALUMNI FIELD o " 1:00PM 7:30PM 
~ ~ WOMEN's WOMEN'S SoccER/V 
~ :\ N AT WISCONSIN 
~ ; TENNIS 
--AT OHIO STATE INVITATIONAL 4:00 PM ~ ~ ALL DAY 
2~~--------~--------~---------L--------~ 

The only international limita­tions on militarizing space are the 1967 Outer Space Treaty, which prohibits putting nuclear weapons in space, and the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which outlaws the kinds antimissile defenses in space that former President Reagan's "Star Wars" idea envisioned in the 1980s. 
In 1985 Congress explicitly prohibited the laser test, but the ban was allowed to expire two years ago. In light of past congressional worries, Cohen consulted with members before approving the test, spokesman Kenneth Bacon said this week when asked if Cohen was delaying a decision. 
The U.S. military has long wanted the capability to dis­able or degrade satellites in space to deter other nations from seeking such a weapon for use against U.S. satellites. Critics argue that once the U.S. develops the capability -or even conducts live tests such as the one Cohen has approved ­a dangerous new arms compe­tition will be created. 
Gov't may have made deal with Jordan for rebel leader's release 
By DINA KRAFT 
Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 
It's a tangled cloak-and-dag­ger tale, a fast-brewing diplo­matic fracas -and likely to become a big embarrassment for both Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's govern­ment and Israel's spy establish­ment. 
Did agents of Israel's Massad intelligence agency botch a bid to assassinate a leader of the radical Islamic group Hamas in Jordan? 
Did that lead Israel to barter for the agents' freedom by releasing the long-held spiritual leader of Hamas? And did Israeli agents use forged Canadian passports, thus violat­ing a 1981 promise Israel made to Canada? 
Journalist Yossi Melman, who has written extensively on Israel's intelligence community, says he is certain Israel was behind the attack, based on pre­vious patterns of Massad opera­tions. "This operation is the most idiotic, the most crazy I can recall," he said. "How could 


"?Ail SP&e1AL 
$3 per person per hour (Not Friday or Saturday after 6 o'clock) ••THE BEST TABLES AT THE BEST RATES.. 
402 E.Madison SouthBend 
Open 7 days a week 23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227) 
Must be 21 to enter Just a 3 minute walk from downtown 
Full Bar • Appetizers • Leagues • Tournaments 
l 


~ 1997 
Does your team have what it takes to be the national champion? Sign up now for the NIKE College Flag Football Regional Tournament October 17-19 at the University of Illinois at Champaign. You could win a free trip to compete in the National Championships at the Superdome in New Orleans during Sugar Bowl week. Call Gerald Ashley at 217-333-3511 for details. 
they have thought of pulling something like this off in Jordan?" 
Government-run Israel radio and Israel TV said Wednesday's freeing of ailing Hamas founder and spiritual leader Sheik Ahmed Yassin was a swap struck by the Netanyahu gov-

Yossi Melman journalist 

ernment and Jordan's King Hussein, with Jordan's Crown Prince Hassan acting as inter­mediary. 
According to the reports, Yassin was released in exchange for two alleged Massad agents who were caught trying to kill another Hamas leader, Khaled Mashaal, in Amman last week. 
Canada, angered by what it said was the use of forged Canadian passports by Israeli agents, said Thursday it was recalling its ambassador to Israel. 
Beyond tipping reporters off to the Yassin's release in the dead of night, Israel has refused to 

discuss the matter. But King 
Hussein denied Thursday that a 
deal had been made. 
Jordan, as well as the Clinton administration, has painted the release as a humanitarian ges­ture. Yassin, 61, is nearly blind, paraplegic and suffering from a variety of ailments. 
The attack on Mashaal, as recounted by Hamas, is classic spy-vs.-spy stuff: Entering his office, he was attacked by two men who injected him with a toxic substance. Mashaal was hospitalized with difficulty breathing, which doctors attrib­uted to the poison. King Hussein said he arranged for the anti­dote to be brought to Mashaal. 
A recuperating Mashaal told visiting Abdel Malik Dahamshe, a Knesset member who is an Israeli Arab, that he immediate­ly recognized his attackers as "suspicious," and is convinced they were Mossad agents. 
The two alleged assailants are being held in Jordan, and Jordan's state minister for infor­mation, Samir Mutawe, said they would face trial like any other suspects and if found innocent would be released. 
The whole exercise has been a trying one for the Jordanian monarch. Jordan is one of Israel's closest allies in the region, and if such a brazen assassination bid on Jordanian soil is linked to Israel, it will be embarrassing for King Hussein. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
USErl l:x:loks lx:u;Jht arxl. oold 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback 


l:x:loks in stock • D..lt-of-Print S6'm:h Service: $2.00 
• ~s large arxl. sm.ll 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232,8444 
ADVERTISEMENT 
n 
0 
II 
n 
0
.., 
CD 
n
.., 
CD 
Ill 
..... 
0 
:I Ill 
< 
11 
< 
Ill ..,
~ 
r+
'< 
...... 
n 
II 
n 
c 
IT 
...... 
-
II 
:I 
.....
.., 
Ill 
3 
c
.., 
Ill 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 . Friday, October 3, I 997 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME 0HICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.. . ....... Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager... . ..... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor...... .................. Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ........... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .... . ......... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. 1r does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofthe majority ofthe Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, Assisram Managing Edimr, News Edimr, Viewpoim Editor, Sports Editor, Accem Editor, Saim Mary's Ediror, Pharo Ediror, and Associate News Ediror. Commenraries, lcrters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Spans  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accem/Saim Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EdirorNiewpoinr  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

.-. 

' ' 
\ ' 
··~ THERhiT IS 
AGA\NL. FOI~TY 
ON ONt;. END AND UIG~LY MA.N£UV£\W3LE
UFOs 
IT A?P~S TO BE V~Y ADVANCbD

CAS~ T~CHNOLa5Y!
CLOS~D 

• ON THE POLLEN PATH 
Time for 'Zero-Cut' Policy in National Forests 
When most people hear the words "national forest," they erroneously con­jecture serene images of densely wood­ed lands, sounds of birds chirping in the trees, and scents of pine in crisp mountain air. 
Of late, this conception of our public lands is becoming more and more inac­curate thanks to large-scale, unlimited 
Kyle Smith 


logging by the U.S. Forest Service. Many environmentalists decry the destruction of the tropical rainforests, but the forests of America are falling at twice the rate of those in Brazil. Only five percent of the forests that existed in North America when Christopher Columbus arrived still remain, and almost one million more acres of forest land are being eradicated each year. 
Maybe these statistics do not bother you. Maybe you are more concerned about the "important" issues like the deficit, saving loggers' jobs, and having ample cheap lumber. Maybe you just do not care about the environment or saving a bunch of trees in a forest which you will never visit. Unfortunately, apathy concerning the environment is overly prevalent, but luckily some students at Notre Dame are taking an initiative and attempting to stop logging in our national forests. 
The Students for Environmental Action (SEA) work on projects ranging from recycling to forest protection, and they will be sponsoring a table at both dining halls next week (Monday through Wednesday at dinner) to encourage students to sign two peti­tions advocating fossil fuel reduction 
• DOONESBURY 
OKAY, 51./GG&ST/ON 
NUM813R Tao­
STOPMARRYIIV6 
AM0/116 YaiR­
/ S&'t.V&9/ 

and implementing a "zero-cut" policy in our national forests. 
What exactly would a "zero-cut" poli­cy mean for the timber industry and the public? The first concern of many people is the effect such a policy would have on the economy. The myth the timber companies and U.S. Forest Service would have you believe is that lumber costs would soar, we would have to import wood, loggers would lose their jobs in droves and there would be a shortage of lumber. 
All these consequences could not be further from the truth. The U.S. Forest Service, like most governmental agen­cies, is a money-losing quagmire of reckless spending and incompetent management. In fact, the Forest Service loses over $750 million each year. 
If the Forest Service were a privately owned business it would have been bankrupt decades ago, but the Forest Service is not losing their money-it is losing your tax dollars. 
The uninformed media, whenever environmentalists call for an end to logging, tends to focus on the jobs issue. Which is more important, asks the media, jobs or the environment? The timber companies portray them­selves as sympathetic to loggers jobs and attack "radical environmentalists" as public enemy number one. Yet just how much can the timber companies care about the loggers when they put thousands out of work every year thanks to automation and exporting of wood? 
According to Sierra Club figures, many more jobs have been lost to automation and exporting in the past 10 years than any loss of jobs a reduc­tion of logging levels ever caused. 
Somewhere in the area of 30,000 log­gers and mill workers are employed thanks to timber projects on public lands. The average salary of a timber worker is about $22,000 a year; howev­er, 30,000 workers divided by losses of $750 million equals $25,000 per work­er. Therefore, even if we stopped all logging in the national forests, we could continue to pay each of the 30,000 workers their normal salary, but employ them to clean-up and pro­tect the forest instead of to cut it down, and still have approximately $90 mil­lion left over to return to the taxpayers or the Federal Treasury! And, accord­ing to the Forest Service's own data, 
'our public lands belong to all 
' 

Americans and to all our children, not to the timber companies, and it is up to us to do something right now to stop logging on public lands to ensure our forests are still alive for generations to come." 
forest preservation, recreation, hunting and fishing would create 32 times more jobs in the national for,ests than does logging. 
Besides no shortage of jobs, there would also be no shortage of lumber if the zero-cut policy were enacted in the national forests. Only about 12 percent of our wood comes from the national forests, and research (again, by the 
U.S. Forest Service itseiO finds that half the loss would be absorbed by wood from private lands and the other half absorbed by wood substitutes which are already on the market. 
Although money and jobs are impor­tant issues, they pale in comparison to the real reasons we should immediately end logging in our national forests. Surveys indicate most Americans [over two out of three people in Indiana] are opposed to logging in the national forests, yet we do nothing to stop it. Our forests are national treasures, not 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
!rYaJ!XW70CCA510NAU.Y AIR(}(JT YaiR~ YaJtXK INA WTALI..Y/JfiJI/../TATING 5aV$OF&NT!TteM&NT.I 
lumberyards, and we naively trust the government to protect them. Few peo­ple realize, though, that publicly-owned forests are exploited to the benefit of timber companies by the same corrupt bureaucracy that we expect to save these lands. 
The Forest Service's clear-cuts go beyond betraying the trust of the peo­ple and destroying trees: when forests are clear-cut the recreation value of the land is destroyed; the water is cont­aminated and the fisheries are often destroyed thanks to enhanced wil-ero-, sion; wildlife is displaced; and regional' climates are altered for the worse. Little natural serenity is left to be had on a barren, lifeless mud-field. 
Chad Hanson of the Sierra Club implores us to judge for ourselves who the real environmental radicals are. Taxpayer subsidized logging, the eco­logical destruction of our forests and logging of wilderness areas are much more "radical" than preserving our national forests (at least what is left of them} for wildlife protection, wilder­ness preservation, recreation and other public purposes. Our public lands belong to all Americans and to all our children, not to the timber companies, and it is up to us to do something right now to stop logging on public lands to ensure our forests are still alive for generations to come. 
John Muir once wrote, "The battle we are fighting for the forests is a part of the eternal conflict between right and wrong, and we cannot expect to see the end of it." Please sign the peti­tion at the SEA table next week at the dining hall, and we will be one step closer to seeing the end of the battle for our forests. 
Kyle Smith is a sophomore Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. His col­umn appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Life is a maze in which 
we take the wrong 

turning before we have 
learned to walk." 
-Cyril Connolly 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, October 3, 1997 page 13 
• lETIERS TO THE EmTOR 
Appreciate Individualism 
On Sept. 30, Nakasha Ahmad wrote an article entitled, "The Letter Which Truly Deserves Attention." I wrote that letter. Now, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Nakasha and clarify my view. 
In Ahmad's article she encouraged us to "get to know some students of color." I don't disagree with her, but it goes beyond that. I would like to encourage you to take not a racist, feminist, or radical view on life but rather be an individual­ist. 
A what? 
It's a term I like to use when someone asks me why I am so against prejudices and racism. I BELIEVE IN INDIVIDUALISM! Each of us wants to be seen as an individual by others. Yet, often we do not grant others the same respect either because of their race, culture, how they dress, social or economic status.' Race, culture, family, religion. political views, experiences. All of these makP an individual. It is often difficult to get to know someone who seems so different from us in these areas, and many of us find comfort in peo­ple who are like us in these aspects. 
To be an individualist, you must get to know people for who they are inside. I'm not saying that this is an easy thing to do, but once it is done, it is amazing! Just think of how much you have to offer. Now think about how many people then~ arc on these two campuses. Each person has just as much to offer! The possibilities are mind-blowing! We can learn so much from one another. 
God has given us such a wonderful gift. WE ARE ALL DIFFEHENT! I believe that you learn something from every person you meet and that God wants us to explore our differences. By learning to appreciate people as individuals, we can overcome such things as racism, sexism, 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 
ageism, or discrimination of any kind. 
This is not a new concept but such an amazing one to put into practice. We have many common threads. Yet, ~e each weave a different fabric making us the individuals we are. 
I urge you to overcome the external appear­ances and get to know the person inside. See the beautiful individual that lives within everyone!! 
Erin Donnelly 
Sophomore, McCandless Hall October 2, 1997 

Still Tossing Bottle Caps After All These Years 
Acting one's age and coming of age are a delicate mix. 
Some believe that the Notre Dame football team may have come of age last weekend against Michigan. The Irish covered the point spread for the first time this season and played much better than in previous weeks. The team may have finally "jelled" together, giving fans hope for the remainder of the season. 

Gary Caruso 
The Catholic bishops' interpretation of Church doctrine regarding the relation­ship between Catholic parents and their gay childnm may have come of age as well this week. The bishops finally have coneluded that homosexual orien­tation is not a choice. They urge par­ents to support their children for who they are rather than turn them away from the family structure. Naturally, the bishops still consider homosexual acts immoral, but they no longer consid­er people immoral for being gay. 
Many believe that Notre Dame's refusal to include gender and sexual ori­entation in its nondiscrimination policy statements is merely a matter of NO offi­cers "acting" their ages rather than coming of age in a modern society. Their stand on this matter is a good case study for current Notre Dame students. When does one come of age regarding anything? 
Recently, I had the pleasant opportu­nity to meet students from Morrissey's third and fourth floor chapel wing sec­tions. As students tend to do on a Saturday after the game, these had a beer or two while watching television after the Georgia Tech game. Being a former student and current beer drinker. I accepted their hospitality and joined them for a cold one. 
Eventually, someone brought a con­tainer of bottle caps which I was told are used to toss across the room into a glass of water -sort of like horseshoes with­out the shoes, pit and peg, but safer if someone walks in the line of the tosses. 
The object of the game is to make one of the caps land in the water-filled glass, and the other team sips their beers. Since at the time I was a softball pitcher in the middle of my tournament season, I joined them with the self-assurance that I could sink those little caps quite easily. It was harder than it looked, but I caused the other team to take a few sips. 
Later, one of the students told me that another student had wondered why I was not acting my age. That remark got me to thinking about the Vietnam experiences that my generation endured which made us come of age quickly. It is still sobering for me to recall that if I had left college or possibly when I grad­uated, a military uniform along with a flight to Southeast Asia was waiting for me. I imagine that those who faced the great depression or both world wars or the Korean conflict had quickly come of age as well. 
During my freshman year, the Cambodian invasion and Kent State killings had shaken the Notre Dame stu­dent body. Over half of the student body met in the Stepan Center to discuss and vote on options available to them. Many students for the first time in their lives were confronted with important issues of life and death ... their lives and the lives of their fellow NO students. It was the most important issue I ever faced in my lifetime. I kept thinking of how I or my friends could have been shot by the Indiana national guard if we had acted before the Kent State stu­dents. 
As a result of the student commitment to action, the administration gave stu­dents three options: freeze your grade at that point in the semester and work for peace and justice, continue with classes throughout the remainder of the semes­ter or work for peace without attending classes until finals but take the finals. Campus buildings could have been set on fire if students could not vent their feelings and frustrations against the U.S. government. 
My generation of Notre Dame class­mates prematurely came of age in a society that appeared to us to be out of control and barbaric. Our army was shooting us in our country, and an enemy army was shooting us in Asia. As a result of facing those choices, other concerns like jobs, careers, money and other long-range material items had lit­tle importance to the most politically conscious of us. Our primary goal was to end the senseless killings both at home and abroad, and bring justice and sanity back to our society. 
Placing little importance on the tradi­tional career goals of a recent graduate is still a character trait that describes many of us to this day. We knew we could get good jobs and make good liv­ings if we only had the opportunity to live. We lost our political innocence, but a humorous innocence was born and forever frozen in our psyches as a counter mechanism. 
The humor is the type that a comedian like Steve Martin would use. We would take any silly risk, poke fun at ourselves or participate in just about any offbeat activity. Maybe we enjoy people and life a tad bit more because we came very close to not being here for the turn of the century. Maybe we just want to have our college innocence back to enjoy without the interruption of war and death. Maybe we are a bit hum­bled by the whole Vietnam experience .. 
However, not all of my classmates kept their college humor and reasoning skills. One classmate was "making out" in his car the summer after graduation, got married the following year, and then called the police on high school kids who were "making out" in front of his resi­dence only one year after that. When I heard about the story from him at a Notre Dame football weekend just three years after graduation, I asked my class­mate how he could become so old so quickly. 
"Ray," I said, "That was you two years ago. Why would you call the police on those kids?" He replied that he and his wife were afraid that someone might break into their home. Ijust shook my head because one of my political cronies had lost his college reasoning and humor to married life. 
Another classmate never did fit into college during our generation, and I venture to say that he would not in any other generation. We nicknamed him "Munchkin" because he was barely over five feet tall. He smoked a pipe, of all things, and went around the dorm greet­ing everyone by saying, "Gentlemen, gentlemen, what the devil are you doing?" 
We surmised that he was born 45 years old. We also disliked the way he was stingy with his care packages from home. He would squirrel them away until the brownies were too stale and hard to share ... and then he would try to give them to us. I believe that he is retired by now at an early age after aggressively selling insurance. He is another one who got away from our generation. 
President Clinton, more than Vice President Gore, displays that college humor spark typical of Vietnam era graduates. Playing his saxophone on MTV and answering questions about whether he wears boxers or briefs is that unique characteristic absent in older presidents. Clinton might not toss bottle caps into a water-filled glass, but I am certain he.would tip a cold one with the boys if asked. 
Acting young tends to make one feel young too. John Kennedy brought a new style to the presidency. He could poke fun at himself and added humor into the White House immediately after the deadpan Eisenhower years. The country felt young and responded with vigor and zest throughout our society. 
The Vietnam experience dragged this country back into the depths of rage and negativism. It took many years and thousands of sacrificed lives before our society could recover from that bad era. Some of us chose to never succumb to the insanity of the time while it was occurring and then assimilated back into society. Others, like me, refused to ever lose our idealism and humor, so we toss bottle caps whenever we get the chance. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for 18 years andfor the International Union ofElectronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is dclwttline@hot­mail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
ACCENT 
October 3, 1997 
..... · .•. -, ......_ . ··~



Alumni 
Ted Danson, '70 -Actor 
Dianne Feinstein, '55-U.S. Senator (California) 
Ken Kesey, '59-Author, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" 
Philip Knight, '62-Founder, President Nike Inc. 
Ted Koppel, '62-Anchor, ABC's "Nightline" 
Herbert Hoover, 1895-31st President ofthe United States 


The-Fight Song 
I
:,C J . Th B d"
. i · om,e. ,o~n e an
c;l ·:,.'• ~ ...... !~ 
' 
j 
!Come join the band !And give a cheer for Stanford red \Throughouttheland . :Our banner waving overhead :stanford for you .:Each loyal comrade brave and true :with might and main sings this refrain . ;"Forever and forever Stanford red." ~After the game 
When Stanford red has won the day ~Praising her name )Down to the field we'll force our way iAnd on the green :Each man who joins the serpentine ;with might and main sings this refrain: 
. .
I"Forever and forever Stanford red." 
I 

The School 

nrollm.ent: 13,075 Stadiunt Capacity: 85,500 oun.ded: .1885 by Leland Stanford S1: cation: Pal.o Alto, California Colors: Cardinal & White ickname: Cardin..al (the colorJ 

ACCENT
October 3, 1997 

Around the World in '70s Days 
By JOSEPH WEILER 
Assistant Accent Editor 
D
o you remember those crazy hazy days in the 1970s when you could hide a small midgit under the hoops of your groovy, polyester bell-bottoms and, as Austin Powers proved to the world, you could still be a saucy sex idol even with bad teeth? Probably not. 
In fact, if you are like most college students who are now too young to be considered Gen "X"ers (which is "officially" catagorized as young men and women born between 1965 -1975), then you were five -six at the most -when the '80s decided to roll around and grace the world with punk rockers, headbands, and some really gnarly music. 
Okay, don't start feeling sorry for yourself because you were just barely too young to fully enjoy what had the potential to be the best years of your life. Fear not. WSND-88.9 FM-along with the Multicultural Executive Council (MEC) is throwing a really happen­ing bash TONIGHT! As Saint Mary's College adds the finishing touches to its own Multicultural Week, Notre Dame's public FM radio station is helping the MEC throw a totally far out, retrospective look at cultures across the nation. 
I know what you're thinking already-"There could be nothing more boring than WSND, which is a PUB­LIC/CLASSICAL radio station, helping the Multicultural Executive Council celebrate a retrospective look at cul­tures across the nation. It sounds like something my grandmother would thoroughly enjoy." 
Well. under normal circumstances I would agree wholeheartedly with that sentiment. But the key word here is RETRO baby! Let's not forget that both the MEC and WSND are run by students at the University of Notre Dame. Students who, just like you good folks, love to boogy down and bust a move. 
Granted, the retro movement is getting a wee bit old. Yes, '80s music is really nifty and all, and leisure suits are super­dee-duper, but even fades go off to the big trash can in the sky. 
-
However, the specs on this retro dance have _gotten better as the week has gone by. Here is the word on the street for the event: 
i'!First andforemost the entire event is free. This ain't no fundraiser, and there's no slimy salesman try­ing to make a quick buck. What there will be is a ton of free food. Not only that, but it will be good food -a sampling of foods from around the world (thus we have the whole multicultural tie-in.) 
ftAs if the free stuff isn't enough, WSND will be giv­ing away 50 free CDs to one lucky winner. This is no slacker music either. This is hand-picked material from the entire WSND library, which includes the college rock and alternative music from the late night Nocturne library.
i'fAs a special treat, you will get to meet each and every member of the WSND staff. That's right, real radio personalities. 
i'frr you're worried about a lack of coordination, fear not. Members of Troop ND along with the Main Street Dance Company will be there to bust a move and show you a couple of new steps along the way. 
i'fAnd finally, the dance will be held in the Stepan Center. No, it is not the greatest place to hear a concert or listen to a guest speaker. But keep in mind that this event is going to be huge and will feature a 20,000 watt speaker system and lighting that was designed by the same crew that does shows for Pink Floyd. 
i'fThe dance takes place tonight from 7 p.m. to 12 a.m., aml the drawing for the 50 free CD's happens at 10 p.m. You need to be present to win. 

By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Accent Editor 
eep on rockin' in the ... heartland. Farm-Aid 

returns to Illinois where the concept was con­
ceived over 12 years ago this weekend. 
Saturday at 2 p.m., the 10 benefit concert, Farm-Aid, for family farmers organized since 1985 will take place in Tinley Park, Ill., just outside of Chicago at the now legendary New World Music Theatre. The show, which promoters hope will end by 11 p.m., boasts a star-studded line-up with enough flavor to appease any taste. The benefit will include sets by Farm­

Aid founders Willie Nelson, John Mellencamp (or is it 
John Cougar or John Cougar Mellencamp? Who knows 
what is PC now?), and Neil Young. 
It will also feature such talented artists as Dave 
Matthews Band, John Fogerty, and The Allman 
Brothers as well as Billy Ray Cyrus, Steve Earle, and Leon Russell. 
Farm Aid began on Sept. 4, 1985, to raise public awareness about the plight of the American family farmer and to provide assistance to those families whose livelihood is dependent upon agriculture. Since its modest birth in '85, Farm-Aid has raised over $13 million for more than 100 farm organizations, church­es, and service agencies in 44 states. Most of the money raised goes towards "direct services," which includes food, emergency aid, legal assistance, and hotlines. 
Farm Aid has allowed thousands of struggling farm families across the nation to keep their homes and toil on the lands that they love. The remainder of the funds are distributed as Program Grants to promote outreach and the development of long-term solutions. 
In addition to these great services, Farm-Aid offers a education outlet to teach the American public about the importance of family farmers in preserving our food supply, protecting our natural resources and cre­ating the economic foundation of rural America. Artists that have participated in the Farm-Aid concerts include John Conlee, Paul Simon, Bonnie Raitt, Elton John, Lyle Lovett, Bryan Adams, Dwight Yoakam, Don Henley, Bruce Hornsby, Mary-Chapin Carpenter, The Grateful Dead, Tom 
Brothers, Hootie and the Blowfish, Tim McGraw, and Jewel. 
As agriculture becomes a chronic problem through­out the country, Farm Aid needs any help it can get to benefit the thou­sands of family farmers in the 


..
United States. Tickets are still available at all Ticketmaster out­lets and phone lines. 

By TOM WITHERS 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK Can someone please check this kid's birth certificate? 
Jaret Wright, showing amaz­ing composure for a 21-year­old rookie, survived a rough first inning and the Cleveland Indians overcame an early three-run deficit Thursday night for a 7-5 victory over the New York Yankees to even their AL playoff series at one game apiece. 
Wright, the son of former major league pitcher Clyde Wright, walked the runner with the bases loaded in the first in­ning when the Yankees took a 3-0 lead. 
But the right-hand€r, who said the day before his start he would be nervous taking the mound in Yankee Stadium, lim­ited New York to three hits in six innings and allowed only one runner past first base after the opening inning. 
Following a day off Friday, the best-of-5 series will resume 
-
,... 
... 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 3, 1997 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 
Indians rookie makes all the 'Wright' moves in New York 
with Game 3 Saturday at Jacobs Field where the Yankees are 15-5. 
David Wells will start for New York against Charles Nagy, who was 0-2 with an 18.00 EHA in three starts against the Yankees this season. 
Matt Williams hit a two-run homer in the fifth inning off Andy Pettitte (0-1 ), who was tagged for seven runs and nine hits over five innings -almost identical numbers to his only other start against Cleveland this season. 
Omar Vizquel went 3-for-5 as the Indians ended New York's five-game postseason winning streak that included the last four games of tho 1996 World Series. 
New York closed to 7-4 in the eighth, loading the bases off Paul Assenmacher and Jose Mesa, who hit pinch-hitter Mike Stanley to force in a run. 
Wade Boggs then hit a flare to left that shortstop Vizquel tracked down for the second out. Tim Raines' weak grounder to first ended tho 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 

000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours 

Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. 
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Sat.'s) 
Phone 631-COPY 
Hey you! Ride that mountain bike on actual trails here in the area! Yes, there is actual rolling terrain around South Bend. Join NIMBA (the N. Ind. Mountain Biking Assoc). Ride/maintain the many local trails, and develop new ones. Meet other cool mountain bikers. Ask any area bike shop about join­ing or e-mail Kristin.M.Lewis.32@nd.edu or NDQuaker@ aol.com. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: Diamond Necklace last Thursday at Jazzman's. Reward. If found, please call 284-4350. 
would appreciate anyone who finds keys to room 308 to call x1862 If you find the little grit who stole them, you can also call x1862 
black-grey sweatshirt w\ keys taken at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre dame security 
FOUND: Prescription glasses in LensCrafters black case. Found in grey CSC van. Turned into Security's lost & found. Call Kristen for more. info. 1-8404 
blue bookbag lost in bookstore on 10/1. if found call steve at x­2070. REWARD OFFERED!! 
WANTED 

LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR. CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST. PHONE & COMPUTER EXPERI­ENCE A MUST. $7.75/HOUR, 1-6 M-F; 9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO P.O BOX 11397. SOUTH BEND, IN 46634. 
...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH'.. 
CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15 trips & travel free! Highly motivated students can earn a free trip & over $10,000! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or Florida! North America's largest stu­dent tour operator! 
Call Now! 1-800-838-6411 
..Spring Break..."Take 2".. Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free. Hot destinations! Free Parties, Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 
Restaurant Servers wanted at Old Chicago Steakhouse. Apply after 5:00pm at 222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200 Under New Management. 
Restaurant Hostess wanted at Old Chicago Steakhouse. Apply after 5:00pm at 222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200 Under New Management. 
Marketing Intern needed for Heartland and Old Chicago Steakhouse. Call for interview at 234-5200. More information posted at Career/Placement Center. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 
FOR SALE 
Brass bed. queen size with orthope­dic mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00. 219-862-2082 
Clean House near campus! 746 Marquette ave $98,500 1 ,600 sq It 3 bdrm, FM, 2 bath 2car garage,a/c call 287-6868 
elec guitar. peavey w/ great case. $120. Call matt 4-2207. 
Tl-82 graphing calculator. $40 matt 4-2207 
NEW STEREO EQUIP many names, 20-70% off retail, warranty . 
Nick 4-2033 
TICKETS 
I need 2 Navy GAs for a cute Midshipman and his friend coming in from Anapolis! Call Laura at 4-4414 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND HOME GAMES.272-6551 
I have 2 GT GA's I want to either trade for 2 SC GA's or student tix Or sell to best offer Call Pat (612)917-7955 
2 USC Tickets Needed Call Pete @ 4-0954 
NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D FOR NAVY CALL TODD 243 5609 
Need 7 ND-SC tickets. Call collect after 5pm 219-324-3241 
4 USC GAs 703-590-937 4 lvmsg 
Wanted: Individual wants tickets for LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or (318)747-8820. 
MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS AVAILABLE CALL 271-7042 
2 USC stud tix, $65 each, call 4465 
2 Pitt GA tix: $100 Call287-0611 
Need USC GA's Pis. call Tim or Nate 
@ 4849 or 2277 
1 USC GA 50 YD Line, Best offer Lv. mess (888)387-0967 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL GAs BEST PRICES ON USC 272-7233 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 
BUY -SELL · TRADE 
232-0058 
CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. 
BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. 
Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service. 
Call 234-5650. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726 
ND TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 271-9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME GAMES AND LSU CALL MIKE 800-991-0525 I Need 2 USC GA TIX -CALL BILL 4-4912 

WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL JOHN AT 
(415) 668-1391 BY 10/18. 
WE HAVE USC GA'S FOR SALE CALL US: SUZY 634-4311 
OR ELLEN 634-4308 
2 usc, 2 BC Tix For Sale. Best Offer. 243-5354 
FOR SALE: 2 USC student tix (not GA) call Jenny @ 687-8435 
Want two home game football tick­ets for 11/2 or 10/25. Call Alan, col­lect, (813)899-1208 after 7 PM EST. 
Have 4 WV GAs. Want to trade for BC. Call4-3918. 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT? If you are pregnant and condisering your options, we are a loving couple loooking to adopt. Please call 1-800-866-8848 after 6 PM (expenses paid). 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center vHigh-Speed Copies vCanon Color Laser Copies vDigital Color Printing vBinding & Laminating .,J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 
Phone 631·COPY 
hey 3a, are we going to party or what? 
I dislike aerospace quizes 
only one day, what am I going to do!? 
02 Motorcycle Tool 
Every night when I come home, to Siegfried, next to Knott, I pray that the Lady on the Dome provide a parking spot. 
And Lo! Before my weary eyes, a single space unfurls, A beacon under dreary skies, untouched by boys & girls. 
But as I peer around the bend, I find to my dismay, A teeny, tiny motor bike is standing in my way! 
And thus my hopes have vanished, Until the glorious day, When motorbikes are banished 02 Motorcycle Tool: YOU SUCK!!!! 
NO's biggest dance party EVER! This Friday in Stepan. WSND 88.9 1m's Retro 70's Dance. Free Food. Free CO's. Free Admission. 8pm til Midnight. Be a part of history. 
remember that force has something to do with mass flux. beyond that, I am screwed 
SABOR LATINO making changes' Try Outs for Horns, Vocals, Bass, 
Drums. Call Ed 277-6976 after 5 
congrats jon, you are going to be partying tonight! all your tests are done, so go on and enjoy yourself. 
did not demonstrate knowledge of material -F 
Hey Observer sports! No love for the McGlinn defense?! I certainly wouldn't call one allowed first down and a safety "timid" Beware tthe line, they make the opposing Qbs soil themselves. But most of all, beware of mighty #17!!! 
Matteo, 

The word is out. Your future wife doesn't love you anymore. She only has eyes for me. Too bad, so sad. 
Shendel 

to the one who is know only as evil grader: be kind to us. do not take your angst out on your hard working lin­ear students. we did nothing to you! you took the job, it's not our fault! though we admire your dedi­cation to your work, you need to take it easy. go out, grab a beer, relax. hey, if our karen can give us hugs and kisses, the least you could do is give us partial credit. please? sincerely, john, meghan, ryan, melissa, richard, and jon the only people dedicated enough to enroll in honors algebra 
Ozzie, 

Beware the 3rd of October. For when the monsters of the gridiron come looking for days of glory past, the soothsayer sayeth you will find yourself knocked flat on your.. butt. 
Shendel, 
a.k.a the dancing machine. 
....TASTE OF NATIONS .... 
Come sample tons of FREE FOOD from around the world at the 1997 Multicultural Exec Council's TASTE OF NATIONS. This Friday from 8pm til Midnight at the WSND 70's Retro Dance in Stepan. Look groovy, get free CO's and eat great food ... all for FREE because we love YOU! MEC makes Tummies Happy. 
....TASTE OF NATIONS .... 
To my Roomie-Happy Birthday, Lori! You're the BEST!! 
-From your Roomie Cockatrice ­

Don't talk back to your mother. -The Scatman Hellooooooooooooooooo. La. Ia, Ia. Boy, glad my superior did her job 
tonight. Any problems in Viewpoint are not my fault. Are you too good for your home? Come stai? Sto bene. Heather Cocks: Filler editor. 
Head editor????? James Joyce spoke Italian; shouldn't you? 
M­

1can't believe you skipped class yesterday! I'm so ashamed. 
Greer, you suck! Gotcha! Driving to NJ for fall break? I need a ride! Call Allison at 1421. 
I drew a face on the glove because 
I needed someone to talk to, duh! Durran­where were you today? I could have used your input! 
Dyslexic production people are cool 
Does anyone else miss the Mark DeBoy ads? Uhhhh ... nope. Does that mean we should start 
Dan Cichalski ads? Sure! Meg is the slowest lab tech in the 
world.. But we love her anyway. Darn -my scratch disk is always 
full. I hate it when that happens! 
Dan is the cutest thing on editorial staff .... Nope, it just doesn't work. Hey, Tommy Boy, how are the 
chicken legs? 

She had two babies. One was six months, one was three. Only at Notre Dame do you actually 
get asked on a date to Mass. We're sorry, those responsible for writing the Classifieds have been sacked. 
inning. 

Mesa allowed a leadoff homer to Derek Jeter in the ninth then finished for the save. 
On Wednesday, Cleveland manager Mike Hargrove described Wright as "a very young Hoger Clemons" and it's easy to see why now. 
Belying mainly on his fastball, the burly Wright overpowered many of the Yankees, who wore seeing him for the first time. lie finished with five strikeouts, and his only walk after tho lirst was intentional. 
In Game 1, it was the Indians who blew a 5-0 load after one inning. This time, it was New York which got tho early lead only to see Cleveland rally by scoring live times in tho fourth with four straight two-out RBI hits. 
Loading 5-3 in the fifth, Vizquel got his second infield single, and with two outs, Williams hit Pettitte's lirst pitch over the 399-foot sign in left­center lield for his sixth home run at Yankee Stadium this sea­son. 
Wright, whom the Indians have described as unflappable, was his own worst enemy in the first. After starting the game by retiring Raines on a groundout, Wright issued the three consec­utive walks. 
Hargrove, catcher Sandy Alomar and third baseman Williams all visited the mound during the inning to offer encouragement to Wright, and Chad Ogea began warming up in the Indians' bullpen. 
Wright took a deep breath before facing Tino Martinez, who slapped an opposite-field double down the left-field line to make it 2-0. 
Charlie Hayes followed with a sacrifice fly as the Yankees doubled the total of first-inning runs Wright had allowed in 16 starts this season. 
The Indians, though, came back with the five-run fourth that started with Vizquel beat­ing out a one-out infield single and taking third on third base­man Hayes' throwing error. 
With two outs, Pettitto walked Williams and David Justice, Alomar and Jim Thome came through with RBI-singles to tie it 3-3. Fernandez then hit a line drive that froze left fielder Chad Curtis and rolled to the wall for a two-run double. 
Notes: Clyde Wright and Alomar's father, Sandy Sr., were once teammates on the California Angels.... Pettitte recorded his 15th pickoff this year in tho third when he caught Marquis Grissom off first. ... In the fourth, Thome bowled c)ver New York first base coach Jose Cardenal while chasing an errant throw.... Wright was the youngest pitch­er to start a division playoff game. Oakland's Dave Beard was 22 years, 7 months when he started against Kansas City in 1981 .... The last Indians rookie to start a postseason game was Gene Bearden in the 1948 World Series against the Boston Braves.... Rachel Robinson, the widow of Jackie Robinson, accepted a $100,000 from the Yankees before the game for her late husband's foundation. 
Friday, October 3, I 997 The Observer • SPORTS 

Jackson will not return to Bulls 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
DEEHFIELD. Ill. 
It's time to move on, says Phil Jackson, who can't foresee any circumstance that would result in him returning as coach of the Chicago Bulls next season. 
Dennis Rodman is unsigned and skipped the team's first meeting Thursday. 
Scottie Pippen and Toni Kukoc are question marks going into the season because of lingering foot injuries. And Michael Jordan gave the "media day" concept a new twist by not talking to the media. 
So the story Thursday was Jackson, who almost left after last season when he coached the Bulls to their fifth NBA championship of the 1990s. 
"It would take wild horses to drag me back this time. This is the final year. It's time to start something different," he said. 
"In the conversation I had with (owner) Jerry Reinsdorf in negotiations, this would be the last year. We're not having any illusions. like last year. We don't want the same situation ... if something should happen like we accidentally win a championship. 
"I assured {general manager Jerry Krause) I'd walk out at the end of the season, and he assisted me in that belief." 
On July 23, the day Jackson ended months of speculation by signing a one-year contract for nearly $6 million, Krause said Jackson wouldn't return for 1998-99. On Thursday, Krause reaffirmed that. 
"This is it," the GM said. "Phil and I have already talked about it. Phil knows it. We all know it." 
During last season's playoffs, Jackson said he and Krause have an uneasy alliance that certainly isn't based on friend­ship. 
Krause said Thursday that coaches and players don't win titles: "It's organizations that win championships." 
"He would say that," Jackson said. "The organization is based on loyalty. Scottie sees that and has to wonder what loyalty really does mean." 
Pippen, who will make less than $3 million this season under the terms of a contract extension he signed in 1991, has said he will leave the team after this season. He has been upset with Krause for years. 
Jackson returned for his 11th season, ninth as head coach, only because "there was just too much between Pippen and 
2 Essays 13 Pages 
Send self-addressed envelope with $2.00 (no postage required­money hack if not satisfied) to: 
James P. Jacobs 
1728 45th Street Brooklyn, NY 11204 

Jordan and myself to walk away from this situation at this time." 
He said his imminent depar­ture doesn't mean Jordan will leave after this season, even though Jordan has repeatedly said he won't play under any other coach. 
In August, Jordan signed the most lucrative one-year con­tract in sports history -$33 million. 

''I'm not so sure this is Michael's last year," Jackson said. "Michael and I have come to the understanding that if I want to walk away, fine .... We just talked about, 'Hey, go on with your career."' 
Will Jackson's going-away party and Jordan's situation be too distracting for the Bulls? What if Pippen needs surgery and misses the first month or two of the season? What if Kukoc, who did nothing but rest all summer, finds out he's not healthy? And whither the Worm? 
No problem, said backup guard Steve Kerr. The Bulls have proven to be impervious to distractions in recent years. 
"Phil wasn't supposed to be back for this year and it didn't bother us," Kerr said. "Hey, I don't know if any of us will be back. We've got 10 free agents. If anything, it will bring us clos­er together knowing it could be our last season together." 
One of those free agents-to-be is a free agent right now -Rodman. 
But Krause said he expects Rodman to sign an incentive­filled contract "in the next four to five days." 
"I hope he's not missing for long," center Luc Longley said. "Everything with Dennis, it seems, he likes to add a little drama to the situation." 


"One Survivor Remembers'' 
GERDA WEISSMANN KLEIN 
Author, Survivor and Subject of Academy Award Documentary 
Sunday, October 5th, 7:30PM Temple Beth--El 305 West Madison Street South Bend 
Co~Sponsored by the Notre Dame Holocaust Project and The Kurt and Tessye Simon Fund for Holocaust Remembrance 
Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutes.from Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 1/4 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 


Come visit us at ~~~"" 
North Shore Club ~~,~; 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002 • 800-404-4275 
Monday night jinx? 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

A Monday night jinx on kick­ers? New England's Adam Vinatieri, who has the NFL's longest current streak of suc­cessful field-goal attempts, scoffs at the idea. 
Let's see what he says in a few days after he plays in his first Monday night game. 
Two of the last three ended in potential winning field goals that were botched by a bad hold and a bad snap. 
"You feel bad for the kicker," Vinatieri said. "I don't think about that and don't think our holder or snapper is going to do that." 
On Sept. 15, Philadelphia's Tom Hutton bobbled a good snap and ruined Chris Bonini's attempt at a 22-yard field goal that would have beaten Dallas 23-21. 
On Sept. 22, Pittsburgh's Jim Sweeney made a bad snap that led to Norm Johnson's blocked 40-yard attempt with Jacksonville ahead 23-21 with six seconds left. It was returned for a touchdown. 
In both cases, the road team lost. The Patriots will be on the road Monday night in Denver in a matchup of the AFC's only two unbeaten teams. 
If there is a Monday night jinx, it actually struck early this week. 
Last Sunday, Denver kicker Jason Elam suffered a hip flex­or that could sideline him against the Patriots. 
"Around the league, there's been some crazy things going on," Vinatieri said. "I don't think Monday night is a jinx for anybody." 
Let's see what he says Tuesday morning. 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 3, 1997 


... 
• 
Orioles crush 
·.<':::::.: 

pit~hing staff 
.,~:;:~ffJI~f::~r:= · 

By JIM COlJR. ·~ Asociari:d Press }Vrit~i" 
SEATTLE 

All those power hitters in the middle of the Seattle Mariners' lfueup have disap~ 
peared. .• , .•.. ·.. ,.. . ..·. ·.· . 
Sudd~.qly; t)le: dub that. ··s···li···~~utive.·9!3 stood baseball on its head·· with a major league record 264 home runs this season is scratching its head. 
"They're red hot," Ken Griffey Jt. said of the BaltimOr!} Orioles' pitching staff. 
In Baltimore's 9-3 victory Thursday that gave the Orioles a 2,0 lead in the divi­sion series, Griffey was 1-for­3 with a harmless single to lead off the sixth. 
In the first two games against the Orioles, the player acclaimed the best in his. sport is 1-for-7 with a walk and an RBI whiCh came on a groundout. 
In Thursday's game, Seattle'~ Big Four of Griffey, Rodriguez. Edgar Martin and Jay Buhner went . 15, all singles, with two RBis. For two ga~es. the quartet is 7•for·30 with three homers, all solt1 s)lots Wednes night, and five RBis. · 
The Mariners had a chance to brea.k..things open early Thursday With runners on second and third and no outs. All Griffey an,d Martinez came up with,;where run-scoring groundouts. 
Packer defense drops the ball 
By ARNIE STAPLET~N Associated Press Writer 
GHEEN BAY, Wis. 
The Green Bay Packers' run defense has gone from potent to porous. 
The Packers, who had the stingiest defense in the NFL last year, have slipped from fourth­best against the run all the way to 25th this season. 
"We're a normal team now," All-Pro strong safety LeHoy Butler said. "We WEHE a cham­pionship team. But that's gone now. We've lost that status." 
Tony Dungy, whose Tampa Bay Buccaneers (5-0) will try to drop the struggling Packers (3-2) a whopping three games back in the NFC Central on Sunday, said the difl'erence is dramatic. 
"Last year, I felt they were the best defense I had seen in the league since the '85 Bears," Dungy said. "It was really tough to get anything going on them. You couldn't make first downs, they were great on third down. You couldn't run the ball on them. 
"This year, people have seen some little chinks in their armor. A lot of that is due to injuries." 
Gilbert Brown, the Packers' 350-plus-pound run-stufi'er, has been hampered by knee and hip injuries all season, and left cor­nerback Craig Newsome, one of the NFL's hardest hitters, was lost for the season on the first play from scrimmage with a torn knee ligament. 
Losing Newsome changed everything. 
"In the prevention of big plays, he's certainly a faetor," defen­sive coordinator Fritz Shurmur said. "And he has been ever since he's been here because of what he brings from a tough, physical nature. He has pre­vented a lot of long runs over the years just by getting after it." 
Each of Green Bay's five games have been stained by long runs and long drives, both of which were almost nonexistent last season, when only two rush­ers cracked the 100-yard mark on the Packers. 
Already, three have done so this season. Last Sunday, the Detroit Lions used two 12-play drives to eat up 
12:25 of the fourth quarter and secure a 26-15 upset of the heavily favored Packers. 
"We were able to get off the field last year," coach Mike Holmgren said. "This year, peo­ple are sustaining things on us. The Lions have great offensive weapons. Barry Sanders is just an unbelievable player." 
Sanders, who gained 139 yards on 28 carries, isn't the only one who has run roughshod over the Packers. however. 
Chicago's Haymont Harris (13 carries for 12 2 yards) and Minnesota's Robert Smith (28 carries, 132 yards) did, too. 
Each had a big run: Sanders reeled off a 42-yarder, Smith a 50-yarder and Harris a 68­yarder. 
''I'm frustrated and the players are frustrated," Shurmur said. "The biggest factor is the long runs. We've had one each game. We need to get that fixed, obvi­ously. Down in and down out is not the problem. It's the long runs." 
And the long drives. Chicago had two 14-play scor­
ing drives, covering 87 and 80 yards. Philadelphia beat the Packers with a 19-play, 80-yard drive that took 9:22 off the dock and Minnesota had a 16-play, 80-yard drive and a 10-play, 90­yard drive. 
"I am surprised any time a team drives on our defense," said Holmgren, who added that things should change when Brown gets healthy. 
But the Packers will have to do without Newsome for the sea­son. 
"When Craig Newsome goes out, people don't realize what type of domino effect that has where everybody has to move up one notch and it affects all your nickel and dime coverages." said Dungy, who will attack the weakened Packers with his new dynamic duo: fullback Mike Alstott and rookie running back Warrick Dunn on Sunday. 
Injuries anm't the only reason for the Packers' defensive woes. 
They've been unable to get a good pass rush, and their line­backers have no sacks, no forced fumbles and no fumble recover­ies. There's been missed tackles and missed assignments galore. 
Aside from Newsome, who was replaced by second-year pro Tyrone Williams, the only changes from last year's top­rated defense is Gabc Wilkins in for retired right defensive end Sean Jones and Bernardo Harris at middle linebacker for George Koonce, who had offseason knee surgery. 

"Neither one of those guys has had a bad game," Shurmur said. "They are not to blame for any­thing that's gone on out there. 
"We're all to blame." 

f 
I I I I 
' 
Towers Perrin 
It's About Time••• to consider Towers Perrin! 
Companies today face fierce competition. They constantly seek better products, systems or processes. What is it, though, that really makes a firm a "leader"? Many would agree: their people. 
That's where we come in. We understand how employees impact an organization's performance, so we can help our clients get their business and people strategies in sync. We know the success of a business depends on its people. 
Our belief in and. commitment to our own people is just as strong. We're growing fast and are seeking outstanding individuals to help us achieve our vision. 
You're invited to learn more about Towers Perrin-details are given below. Also, be sure to check out our website: www.towers.com. 
Firm Presentation October 6th from 6-Bpm The Alumni Room at The Morris Inn 

Friday, October 3, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

-----------~~-----------------------. 
page 20 we can get the ball back. The true fan says, "Damn it! Why
Jock Strip 
didn't we pass? Why didn't we use the fullback? Why isn't
continued from page 28 
Jamie Spencer in on that play?" or the Bob chant at the end of As you can see, the true fan the third quarter. They are the realized that we ran the same 
ones trying to figure out what play three times in a row. Didn't the team needs to do in order to the same thing happen against score, (right now that is a big Georgia Tech? If you remember, problem). we couldn't score from the goal 
Here are a couple of examples line three times. from last weekend's game to The true fans deserve the right help you decipher the difference to criticize the team when they between the two. want. We don't go to the 
In the first quarter, Ron University of Akron, which ranks Powlus hits Bobby Brown with a at the bottom of the college foot­touchdown pass in the endzone. ball hierarchy. We go to Notre A social fan who just happens to Dame, a national powerhouse in hate Ron Powlus with a passion football. The true fans came to said that it was a terrible pass school expecting us to win all the because Brown had to twist his time, not to lose to body to catch it. The true fan Northwestern, Air Force, BYU, realizes that Powlus threw the and Purdue. When the true fans fade pattern exactly the way it jeer they do it for a reason, they should be thrown: over the expect greatness. defender's head, so the receiver Take the Michigan State game could adjust. where the fans booed after the 
To digress a little, Powlus has game. It was stated by a writer played three decent games out of on this staff that it was a dis­the four. The coaching staff tells grace to hear the fans boo at the him what to do. Unlike street stadium. Meanwhile, if the football, where the quarterback writer had looked at the team tells the receivers what to run, quotes he or she would have the coaches send in the plays seen that Powlus expects to hear and expect them to be followed. boos when the team doesn't per­This season, Powlus has a com-form up to standards. pletion percentage of 68 percent. Then there is the problem of It's too bad we always throw the social fans being inter­short passes. Maybe he doesn't mingled with the true fans. always see a receiver breaking When the true fans get up to away, or scramble in for a cheer and react to an exiting touchdown, but 68 percent of his touchdown the social fans get passes were completed, a higher aggravated and report it to the percentage than Peyton Manning ushers. To solve this problem a and Ryan Leaf, two of the couple of dorm residents sug­game's best signal callers, and gested that there be two sections probably one of the highest per-in the stadium one for the true centages in the nation. fans and one for the social fans. 
Okay, example two: it's the The way to divide up the fans is end of the game, we go for it and that they take a proposed ques­miss. Fan reaction: the social fan tionnaire. Below you will find says, "We missed? I hope the suggested questions from these band strikes up the kill chant so dorm residents would like to 
r------------------------,
: A A ~awwe Q 1 
!uvtattcino ~~! 
: ITALIAN EATERY : 
1

: Football Feast 
I 
Available All Day Saturday and Sunday Monday After 4:00 p.m. 
New and Improved *Spaghetti and Meatballs *New Appetizers 
*Chicken Strip Dinners *Games and Attractions (video games) 

**Bring this coupon and receive free 112 order of garlic bread w/purchase of meal. 
St. Andrew's Plaz.a LaSalle Square 620 W. Edison Rd. Suite 130 913 N. Bendix Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 South Bend, IN 46628 
L ·254-9533 234-5817 
------------------------~ 

~dll 

197! 
DoPI ~ 
A Benefit for the C9theri~e.Peachey Fund, Inc .. for Brea~t Cancer Research 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK 

The Observer· SPORTS 
appear on this set of questions: 
1. How many points are 
awarded for a touchdown? a)7 b) 6 e) 8 d) 3 
2. How many players are on 
the field at one time? a)22 b)20 e)24 d)18 
3. On what side does the quar­
terback play? a)Offense b)Defense c)Speeial Teams d)on the left side 
4. Which of the following is not a defensive formation? 
a) 3-4 b) 4-3 e) 5-2 d) 2-5 
5. Who was the last NO player 
to win the I-leisman Trophy'? a)Dave Brown b)Tim Brown e)Haghib "the Hoeket" Ismail d)lvory Covington 
6. If you have the ball on your own 20, down by a touchdown, three minutes left, and no time­outs, which of the following plays would you not run: 
a)sideline pattern b)20 or more yard pass down 
field c)a quarterback draw d)a five-yard out 
8. Who was not a member of 
the four horsemen? a)Crowley b)Layden e)Studrehler d)Van-Hook Drucker 
9. Which of the following is not 
an offensive formation? a)Wishbone b)Plexbone e)Wristbone d)Trap 
10. If NO scores a safety, after having two TDs with extra points, and a field goal. How many push-ups will the Leprechaun attempt? 
a)17 b) 22 e) 19 d)20 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 28 
shutout of the year. Beene leads the Big East conference with a .41 goals against aver­age. 
Beginning with Sunday's con­test, the final eight regular-sea­son games for the Irish include six against conference foes. 
Following the Boston College game, Notre Dame hits the road for showdowns with 
Friday, October 3, 1997 
Georgetown, Wisconsin and Syracuse before returning to Alumni Field for four games to close out the regular season. 
But there is still work to be done before Notre Dame is fully prepared for the postseason. 
"We still have a lot of grow­ing to do," said Manthei. "We're not at our peak yet, or even close to it: but since the game against North Carolina we've been playing more smoothly. The three lines have definitely been playing with more cohesion." 
tMullaney's 
flAq & FIDDLE 
9rish feub 

TRAVELING IRISH FANS! 
While in Pittsburgh please join us at Notre Dame Headquarters 
MULLANEY'S HARP AND FIDDLE 
24th & Penn in the strip district Irish Food, Live Irish Entertainment 52" Big Screen T.V. & much more 
( 412) 642-6622 

YOU DEMAND POWER SPEED, AND MOBILITY. 

5300 
cash back* 
$200

Power Macintosh" 6500/275 32/4GB/t:zXCD/Multiple Scan 15AV ...• ,•.,.;i, 1.2/Zip Drive/EthemetMdeo ln/NTSC Oul/l<bd ...,... 
cash back* Now $2,675 (or $s<Ymontl1)** BEFORE REBATE PowerBook" 11JOOCS/133 t6/tG8/BXCD/L2/tt.J-DSTN display Now $2.o8s (or $39/month)** BEFORE REBATE 

$100 

cash back* 

Save another 
Power Macintosh" 5400/18o t6/1.2GB/8XCD/Built-in display/Kbd 
Sso 
Now St.sso (or $29/month)** BEFORE REBATE 
cash back* 
Color StyleWriter" 4100 Now $220** BEFORE REBATE 

WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? 
Now is the right time to get an Apple Power Macintosh or PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets you do more than you can imagine, you can save big time. For a limited time, students are eligible for special cash rebates. 
*This is a limited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple campus reseller today for complete details • 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 112 • Mon.-Fri. 8:oo-s:oo http://www.nd.edu/-ndstore/ Prices shown include ClarisWorks and a Bonus Bundle. PowerBook tiJOOCS/133 includes a carrying case. While supplies last! 
-~~r eJC.plres ~ober .to, 1997. N'? pav~ent ~f interest will be required for 90 days. Interest accruing during the 9o-dav period will be added to the pnnc1pal ~nd w1ll bear mterest, wh1ch will be mcluded in the repayment schedule. For example, the month of May 5. 1997, had an interest rate of 
~~-~0;t:t 1ro:~ :~~~~t ~fc$~.~:;.::.1~~:~>i:~~~!2~S:m~I;1;Z~~~~~nJ,:f !t4l:f.l1~ 1a~hJ ~~'1::0ci~~~~~a~i~~~ ~~fe~!~ ~ ~~ne:~~~~:s:~~ 
the Prime Rate as ~ported on the sth business da~ of th~ month in !he Wall Street Journal plus a spread of 3.9%. The Apple Computer Loan has an B-year loan term w•th no prepayment penalty and IS subJect to credit approval. MoAthly payments may vary depending on actual computer system pnces, total loan amounts, state ~nd local sales taxes and a change in the monthly variable interest rate. C1997 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, tht Apple logo, Mac,. Macmtosh, PowerBook, Power Macintosh and StyleWriter are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. OneScanner and Qul~klake are _tra~~mark~ of Apple Co~p_uter, Inc. Apple mail·!n rebate offer valid from July 12, 1997 through October 10, 1997, ..;.hile supplies last and subtect to availability. Vo1d where proh•blted by law. See participating reseller for further rules and details. AU Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to individuals with disability. To learn more (U.S. only), call Boo·6oo-78o8 or nY Boo-75s·o6ot. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 21
The Observer • SPORTS 


C a II 1-800-878-3872 
www.att.com/college/np.html 
-
-
AT&T 

It's all within your reach. 
·1997AI&T 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 
IT'S JURASSIC PARK IN YOUR OWN BACKYARD. 
AMusrlA,;i;i;_, BIAuTIMI 
i\ l>reathtaking reminder that Mothi'l'Natlm rrmaifJs tltt grtalest Sl•eci<li effects wi=ard of till!" ' 
11AFILM 
Naturls U>IJmiel$ have n."':tr s.eemal so fascinating!" 
~MGU;.;!­
Athriving Llr. SffiSs land of thr tx.otic!" 
-!o:t!tM(I$!'Mt'""_. 
"A WONDERfUL FILM!" 
IT'S UNLIKE ANYTHING YOU'VE EVER SEEN BEFORE 
showing: 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
-
Cf)fease rec.Ycfe ~fje Q)6seroer 
1:15 4:10 7:10 9:50 THE BOOR (R) DIGITAL 
2:00 4:45 7:20 10:00 
SOUL FOOD (R) 
1:30 4:20 6:50 8:20 10:00 
WISHMASTER (R) 
2:15 5:00 7:45 10:15 
KISS THE GIRLS (R) 
1:00 4:00 7:00 9:40 
U-TURN (R) 
1:45 4:30 7:30 10:10 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brakets] THE FULL. MONTY (R) 
[2:00]  4:30  7:00  9:30  
MATCHMAKER (R)  
[2:30]  5:00  7:30  9:50  

IN AND OUT (PG-13) [2:15] 4:45 7:15 9:40 

IIIJrd~'-•J..,.i,~-.r~ • P.rog.riiSSiVII •RIIII"' •AIIII.rDaliVIIDBDDII 
11"1#1# 6d1DJ11J0D wJI./1 V6JJd ooJ.II#II# ID • PI"OPI#I" Jdi#DIJih161JoD 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, All-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & 1 lb. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 
Open 5-lOpm Tues. -Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner 
222 S. MICHIGAN· SOUTH BEND· (219) 234-5200 
'··--o:~·A--·~-------~ > ----'
.... ____________________________ -.---' •­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 3, 1997 
• INTERHAU. fOOTBALl 
McGlinn defense drives Farley back for late win 
By BRAD RODRIGUES 
Sports Writer 
After playing more than 35 minutes of scoreless football Wednesday night, McGlinn Hall was able to score a safety in the game's final two minutes to defeat Farley 2-0, and raise its record to 2-2 on the season. 
On its second drive of the game, McGlinn was able to move the ball deep into Farley territory with great running by tailback Kristen Langan. The drive stalled. however, when quarterback Courtney Blake was intercepted by on the 15-yard line. 
The. rest of the half was dominated by the defenses, as each team went three­and-out three times in the half. On the last play of the first half, the Farley quarterback was intercepted by McGlinn defensive back Katie Sullivan. 
Sullivan returned the ball all the way down to the Farley 15-yard line, but time expired before the offense could get on the field and it remained score­less at th(Cl half. 
The second half was the same old story for Farley, as the tenacious McGlinn defense recorded two sacks and forced four straight punts. 
Farley's defense rose to the occasion, answering with four straight stops of its own. 
With about five minutes left, the McGlinn offense finally sustained a drive. Blake completed a pass to wide receiver Jaime Glasser for 15 yards. 
Langan ran for 15 yards of her own off of a flea-flicker and caught a screen pass on a critical fourth down and five, bringing McGlinn down to the Farley eight-yard line. 
Langan took the ball down to the two­yard line on the next play, but that was as close as the Shamrock offense would come to scoring. 
The swarming Farley defense came up huge, stopping McGlinn on four straight plays. Farley's offense took over on downs, but it was pinned inside its own 10-yard line. 
On first-and-10 with under two min­utes remaining, McGlinn's Mary Claire Kenney broke through the line and sacked Farley's quarterback for a safe­ty. 
That was all the scoring McGlinn would need, as it ran the clock out to preserve the win. 
McGlinn coach Steve McMullen said of the win, "Our offense moved the ball but just couldn't punch it in. The defense was huge all day. It was a great team effort." 
The McGlinn defense allowed only one first-down the entire game, and Farley allowed no points, coming up with a huge goal-line stand late in the game. 
In other action, PE 
Women's lnterhall 
Power Poll 

1. P.;E. 3·0·0 :!2. Walsh 3·0·0 3. Breen-Phillips 2·0·1 '"4;; Lyons 2·1·0 
1 
7. McGlinn 2-2-0 8.. Lewis 2-2-0 9. Welsh 1..2-0 1i'q. Off-Campus 1-3-0 11. Badin 0-1-1 12. Howard 0-1·1 13. Farley 0-2-1 14. Pangborn 0-3-0 
The Observer/Dave Piening 
downed Lewis 16 -6, 
Men's lnterhall 

1·1·0 0-0-1 0-1-1 0-1-0 0·1-0 0-2·0 0·2-0 
The Observer/Tom Roland 
FOR the EDUCATION a11d RESEARCH COMMUNITY and PW defeated Off­Campus 2-0. 


HELPING YOU BUILD ASECURE FINANCIAL FUTURE IS AN IMPORTANT JOB. FORTUNATELY, WE HAVE THE PERFECT RESUME. 
Entry level accountant or analyst positions. 
Amway's global operations provide stimulating opportunities for accountants and analysts in a variety ofareas including financial reporting~ pricing, global operations analysis, management accounting & analysis, Activity Based Costing, cash management, international accounting and budget performance planning. At/members ofAmway's Financial Services division have the best available technology at their disposal. 
Position Requirements: 

All interested students must be eligible to work on a permanent full-time basis in the U.S., regardless of citizenship status. Grade point average a minimum of3.0 on a 4.0 scale, and you must bring a copy ofyour most recent transcript to your interv_iew. 
Overview of Company: 

Amway Corporation is one ofthe world's largest direct selling companies with operations in 75 cuuntries and territories, and more than 13,500 employees worldwide. More than two million Amway distributors market Amway products in such fields as home care, hometech, personal care, health &fitness, commercia/line products and catalog shopping. Amway is a privately held company with estimated annual sales in excess of$6.8 billion. 
W 
th nearly 80 years of leadership experience 
10 our lleld, TIA1\-CREF is eminently 
qualified to help you build a coml"cwtable, worry-
free retirement. 

Our references are equally impeccable­
today. nearly two million of the best minds in 
America trust us with their financial future. 
Allow us to review our qualifications. 
Superior strength 
With over $200 billion in assets, TIAA-CRE.F is the world's largest retirement organization­and among the most solid. TIAA is one of only a handful of companies to have earned top rat­ings for financial strength, and CREF is one of Wall Street's largest investors.' 
Solid, long-term performance 
We seek out long-tenn opportunities that other companies, in pursuit of quick gains, often miss. Though past perFormance can't guarantee future results, this patient philosophy has proven extremely rewarding. 
Surprisingly low expenses 
Tli\A-CREF's operating costs a1·e among the 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.sM 
lowest in the insurance and mutual fund 
industries. Therefore, more of your money goes where it should -towards ensuring your future.' 
Easy diversification 

We offer a wide variety of expertly managed investment options to help build your assets. With stock, bond, money market, and real estate accounts-as well as a guaranteed annuity to choose from-TIAA-CREF makes diversification easy. 
Unrivaled service 

We believe that our service distinguishes us 
From every other retirement company. In the 
latest Dalbar Consumer SatisFaction Survey, 
a study of 2,000 financial companies, TIAA­
CREF was voted the leading provider of 
retirement plans. 
lfyou work in education, research, or relat­ed fields, why not put TIAA-CREF's experi­ence to work for you? To lind out mo1·e, visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org or callus at I-800-842-2776. 
1 A++ (Superior), A.M. Best Co.; AAA, Dull & Phelps: Aaa. J'v1oody's Investor Services; AAA, Standard and Poor's For stability. sound investments, claims-paying ability, and overall financial
See Career & Placement Services 

strength. These ratings of TIAA as an insurarn.·e company do not apply to CRE.I\ 1Siaudard c1' Rllii';J ln.'lll~llli't R,1/iu.41 rlllti~W/.1, 1996; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., 1Ai1J!t'r-lhi'l',·fJw:• A111z(vlt;·a/ IJ11f11, 1996 (Quarterly). For more complete information, including charges and expenses, rail l-800-842-2733, extension 5.509. for CREF and TIAA Reall..:State prospectuses. Read thera ran•fully belOre
for an appointment. 

you invest or send money. TIAA-CR~:F Individual anJ Institutional Servi(·es, Int. distributes CREF certificates and the variable component ofTIAA contracts. 
r-~~-----------.-----~------~---------------------------· 
Friday, October 3, 1997 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

Unleash up to 50% savings every day with Student Advantage®. It's FREE just for being with AT&T. 
Hey, if you're with AT&T, you get a free one-year membership to Student Advantage-the largest student discount program ever. So if you haven't called to receive your Student Advantage membership, call now. Then get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your 
favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors like these: 
. .... ~

• I'\~!" Ml!I M©>bil. Greyhomd1·1'11;1·1:1 ._,,.,. <!-> 
<fH7 •
MOTOI'HOTO

PEAmEVISION amc. ThoExpor•oc•M"'stheDilierono· kinko•s·
THEATRES
-''"'''"'"'""""'""'....... 

With AT&T? Call now to get Student Advantage. FREE. 
C a II 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
It's all within your reach. 
Student Advantage offer valtd for~ AT&T Resrdentral Long Distance. 
ATQT r ... u,..,,.. ;..,, . .-l .,...,,.,~ AT.IU I ln"":wol r::~.-r-1 rrr<:tnmPr<: (C) 1g97 ATR.T 
-., 
•t 
l 
I 
l 
l 
l 
"l 
l 
l 
I I I I I I 
l I 
j 

-----------------------------~-------------------~--------------------------------~----------...
r 
•
•t I 
•I page 24 The Observer· SPORTS 
•
t 
I 
I • MEN's SOCCER 
I I I I 
I 
I Velho keys Notre Dame defense 
By TOM STUDEBAKER along with a newly appointed nation­Velho has been a key for the Irish and DAN LUZIETTI al ranking of 23. this season. Recently, he was recog­Sports Writers The Irish are coming off of back-to­nized by Soccer America magazine hack wins and currently have a five­and named to its Collegiate Team of 
The Notre Dame men's soccer game unbeaten streak, with much of the Week. He tallied 16 saves last team heads south as they travel to the thanks going to the defense. It week in the victories over Eastern Texas this weekend to face the has not allowed a goal in the past Illinois, Villanova, and Rutgers, giv­Mustangs of Southern Methodist and four games and has posted seven ing the Irish sole possession of first the Horned Frogs of Texas Christian. shutouts this year. place in the Big East. The Irish bring a record of 6-2-2 The play of junior goalkeeper Greg For his efforts, Velho was also 
named the Big East Defensive Player of the Week. He has played every minute of Notre Dame's 10 games this season, and has yet to give up a goal to a conference opponent in five Big East games. 
Velho headed into the 1997 cam­paign as a potential All-American candidate. He is coming ofT of a very impressive sophomore season, and played particularly well for the Irish in the post season at the Big East and NCAA tournaments. He was named Most Outstandin~ Player of the 1996 Big East Championships. He followed up with a career-high 12 saves in Notre Dame's second round 1-0 loss to UNC-Charlotte. 
Velho is going to be called upon this weekend to be a solid last line of defense as the Irish face the third­ranked Mustangs today. He will face the offensive power of senior mid­
fielders Daniel Hernandez and Jacob '----------------,D,-av-e""'Pi-en7in-..,g/-=Th-e""'Ob-se-rv__Jer 
Wilson. They combined for 15 goals and 14 assists last season. 
The Horned Frogs are led by senior for­ward Britt Stroud. He had 5 goals in 1996, but missed most of the season due to a groin pull. He hopes to stop the Irish in iheir tracks 
_..., 
The Observer/John Daily 

when they face off on
Goalkeeper Greg Velho anchors a strong defensive unit for the Irish as they head 
Sunday.

south to face SMU and Texas Christian, riding a two-game win streak. 
PEACEMAKER (R) DIGITAL 
1:15 4:10 7:10 9:50 
THE EDGE (R) 
2:00 4:45 7:20 1 0:00 
SOUL FOOD (R) 
1 :30 4:20 6:30 9:30 
WISHMASTER (R) 
2:15 5:00 7:45 10:15 
KISS THE GIRLS (R) 
1 :00  4:00  7:00  9:40  
U-TURN (R)  
1 :45  4:30  7:30  1 0:10  

Sat/Sun Mat. in [brakets] THE FULL MONTY (R) 
[2:00] 4:30 7:00 9:30 
MATCHMAKER (R) 
[2:30] 5:00 7:30 9:50 IN AND OUT (PG-13) [2:15] 4:45 7:15 9:40 

.. 
.. 
18.,,. ·9, 
•DENT STRAIGHTENING 

AMBASSADORPAINT SERVICE  $ ,. , . , ~ ... )9.J  
Starting At • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  . ·  ,·, ,,  · .  
With over 25 years experience in auto pointing  

and bodyworks, MAACO is the notional leader 
•RUST REPAIRS 

of quality automotive collision and point services. 
•PARTS REPLACEMENT 

We hove oIorge variety of packages to ensure o 
•SKILLED BODYWORK TECHNICIANS 
collision and point service to lit every budget. 
SOUTH BEND 
Bodywork, rust repair and stripping of old paint extra.
250 East Sample Street 
Vans, trucks and commercial vehicles by estimate. Additional surtace preparation may be necessary. Not valid
234·1925 
with any other offer. MAACO Auto Painting & Bodyworks centers are independent franchises of MAACO ..............Enterp~ises, Inc. Prices, hours and serJices may vary. 
Friday, October 3, 1997 
NSCAA/UMBRO 

Men's Soccer Rankings 
Rank Team Record 1 9-0-0 2 8-0-1 3 8-1-0 4 6-1-2 5 6-1-0 6 .···· uke 7-2-0 
'::B:~m~;:; :·:: .:,..... ,..6. ·l~t'i

7 Maryland 
··i·········..·6f1;2.•·r•

8 Washington 9 Florida lnt'l 7-2:..1 10 Boston University 5:..2-2 
t.l Stanford n, 8~0-0 r····•·····William & Mary 7-1-0 1 Creighton 6:-.3--1 1 orth Carolina St. 6-1-1 1 ltles Madison 7~1-0 16TIJ~~Iing Green 6-3-0 17 ~Portland 6-1-1 18 St~ Louis 6-2-2 19 Temple 5-1-2 20 Seton Hall 6-3-0 21 South Carolina 4-1-1 22 Dartmouth 3-t=t 23 Notre Dame 6-2-2 24 Marquette 6-2-1 25 California 5-1-1 

Full menu is inside Scholastic 
back 
cover. 

atur ay, October 4 & Sunday, October 5 @ Rolf's Aquatic Center 
ND Game Times: 
Saturday: 
12:00 pm 6:40pm 
Sunday: 
11:30 am 



T'S P I? 
Panini is Balian for Sandwiches.•• 
these unique pressed sandwiches are served 
hot. and grilled with your favorite ingredients . 
Where did Panini Originate?  Do i Have to Fly  
In Italy.  Panini have been a  to Italy to Try One?  
favorite in European restaurants  No! You may have one right here at  
delis and coffee shops.  your favorite Martin's Store!  


Friday, October 3, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

/·.
you won't min eing car-------• 

_"r!;­



N(J'N vvheY"vyfJIA vtsty()"V(r V~St/! 0 u1.rti) yuu' l[ St/!Vt 6-(1 1/!t-t-hese f&rcts. 

·-­
Its everywhere you want to be~ 
© 1997 Visa U.S.A. Inc. 

r--------------------~--------------------~--------------------~-------~-----------, 
~~~!!,"$]!.;~~::!~~,::-.. Save$5......1.ch••g• Save25°/o Save "5 on a~y
fashron,andcolortulaccessones.Foradults,krds,andbaby~thatsOidNavy. Or $30 On a maintenanCe SpeCial h order of $40 or more or buy one packing
Presentthlscertlflcate,paywlthyourVISa· card,andrece•ve$10offyournext . h . • d s "I h I I . . on any pure ase ' 
Old Navy purchase of $50 or more (regularly pnced merchandise). For store loca-Pay Wit your VIsa car ~nd.save_ 5 on an Ol c _an_rre regu _ar pnce s~artmg at tions, callt-800-0lD-NAVY (t -800-653-6289). To redeem this special offer, pre-S24) or S30 on a fall or wmter mamtenance sp~c•al regula~ pnce startmg at Pay with your Visa· card and save 25% on your next purchase at Trade Secret. box and get one free 
sent thts certificate at the ttme of purchase. Offer valid 9/1/97-2/28/98. $139 for most 4-cyhn~er veh~cles) at any part1Cipatm~ ~reCISIOn Tune Auto_ Care w· h 1 000 I . I I d . I d. B k B . 
Reason Code: 679 lo(a_tton. To rede~m th1s spectal offer, presentthts cert1f1cate when requestmg 11 over • pro esstona sa on pro ucts, me u mg ac to astcs, Present rh1s certitkme. r<1yw1th y11ur V1s;1' carJ. cmJ ~'t."t $5 uH ,mr ctNllffi pack-Terms and Conditions: Certtficate redemption is solely the responsibility of serviCe. Offer valid 9/1/97-2/28/98. Sebastian, Joice, Nexxus, OPI. and more, Trade Secret is more than just a mg, ~hlrrmg, ~~r surrly nrJer nf $40 or l!ltlre. l)r ~u\· ,,m· p.Kk]n~ ~.~r mnnng hn: Old Navy. Present this certificate at participating locations at time of purchase. Terms and Conditions: Certificate redemption is solely the responsibility of ~a~~~-B~~t ~~~v:~ ~{~~phoductsJt t;edbest pricesk}ffo~hijply freat hair. t anJ get one lit etlll<ll nr le:-.-.cr r,1\ue ftlf tree. C<11l 1-&.X'· H4-h28 l11f J H.m.llm~ Offer vahd September 1, 1997, through February 28, 1998. Good only toward partiCipating Precision Tune Auto Care Centers. Offer valid September 1, 1997, a O-ff -l"d-9/1/97 2/2o8u/r9s8a ay, ays aAweteh _or . e o(cadronBn3ea5r1es With Care Pacbgmg Stnrc !tlC<ltltm near \'llU .mJ .l~k ,11\lut 1\Ur trn-e~rlm.ltt..":o .mJ
1 where prohibited, taxed, or restncted by law. Valid only when you use your Visa ~~~~g~~~~:~il7n!! ~~~~ie~.i~~~a~~:s~~~~~~~~a~i~~~sMu~~~e~~~~ert:P:~<t Terms and Conditions: Certificate redemption is solely the responsibility of par-HaDdle With c.e Pac:kagingSt card. ~ppiJCable taxes must be pa1d by bearer. Onll redeemable in the U.S. Cash includes a tune-up, oil change, radiator flush and fill, and maintenance inspec-ticipating Trade Secret locations. Offer valid September 1, 1997, through February _ lemtS illdCDOdrtitfts:t ·m,tu.. n.· r,·,J, 1111 ''"~'' ,.,J,·h rh,· n·~ .,,,,.. , 11 ,,, ,,, 
purchase of regularly priced mer_chandise. Not v~lid with any other offer. Void you. er va -· u onzatton ° e: rtck·ur :-.emce. Offer \'ahJ Scr(emhcr l, (1)97. rhn11.1gh Fd•ru.lrY ~8. !IN~. 
11

value /~ 00 cent. Vtsa Rew?r~s IS a serv1ce mark o V1sa tion. Discounts are applied toward regular prices for most vehicles. Pnces may 28, 1998. Discount cannot be used in combination with any other offer. Not valid on ...;_, 61Cb1111J1 H.mdk Wuh l:.u.· Pxl.'t-!'nl! ~ic'h' l'n····nr rlu-.,ar,11,_ 11,. ,,, JW''', InternatiOnal Servtee Assoc1at10n. © 1997 Vrsa U.S.A.Inc.G b f d I d h I f d 1 d salon services. Any other use constitutes fraud. Void where prohibited, taxed, or I ~ 6.1iiJV p.umg 1,,,,11"''h .u 11111,. ,,1 pur.:h.1..... l 'tkr 1_,J1J ""•·l't•·nll...·r 1. toJ<.l~ Are you on our mailing list? (t], •J \"'l' weh~~~hp~~~~~~~~ta~~~ ~~ r:~:r~ct~de~y~~~~~~~~g~~lyo~~:~r~~~us~t~~~rV~~a restricted by law. Valid only when you use your Visa card. Applicable taxes must be 1 ,.._._:,.-'!. rhrc•tu;h F.:f.ru.11v !$. l•N!l l ~ .....1••nil !·•r purc.l~o~....-··r pr...luLT· mJ; N card and present this certificate Applicable taxes must be paid paid by bearer. Only redeemable in the _U.S. Cash val~e 1/100 cent. Vtsa Rewards is I ,,r r.·,rnmd b, 1,," ~:-~'1~J..~i;.1 ,:·i:~~~: :·.::~~,;:,~,·;,1,~\\:::r~·~rj"'J "h~·r.· pr.,h=-..I'J. 
ame ~'" by bearer Only redeemable mthe US Cash -a serv1ce mark of V1sa -Arrh,.,f.k r.•x•·, mu•t be• p.u.l h l.,·,,r,·r.l)nl\ r,·J,·,·u~.,l•k m1lw
Plecisian"\ VISA d MS4 :r.e!!'J value 1/100 cent Vtsa Rewards IS a serv1ce "MSA Wl\fi.111-.11!Ut1W International Service 1'154 I U.:-. c,,,h ,.,,luc· l!ll\1 ~··m \'1-.• lh·w,trJ-. ._ ·' -.c" I(<' nwl ••t \"h., ~ d
A ress ~ ~J markofVtsalnternat1onaiServ1ce ~ -•••••-•-•••-Assooat10n ~-llnr.rnlth•n,l...,,,,,,,-\,...,,,n,,n (rty $tate ltp -Sullre&.ntee~ Assooatton©1997VtsaUSA1nc ~ MORETHANASALON ©1997VrsaUSAinc .('J•N7\'1, 1 U"<\ln, 
L--------------------~--------------------~--------------------~--------------------~ 
• 

~Women's Soccer 
page 26 
Volleyball 
continued from page 28 
Brown remarked on entering conference play. "It's a sit­uation to use every match we have to get better. We've been the team to beat, and we expect other teams to be really psyched up when they play against us. That means that we just have to play at a higher level, too. I think this will be a good season for us." 
Tonight's match against St. John's begins at 7 p.m., while the team will play Connecticut on Sunday at 2 p.m. Both matches will be played in the Joyce Center. 

Golotaown worst enemy 
By ED SCHUYLER JR. Asociated Press Writer 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. 

Lennox Lewis is a slight fa­vorite to beat Andrew Golota. There are no odds offered on the chances of Golota beating himself. 
That, however, is what he has done in his last two fights. 
Golota was beating Riddick Bowe when he was disqualified in the seventh round for repeated low blows July 11, 1996, in Madison Square Garden. He was beating Bowe 
-~-again when he was disqualified in the ninth round Dec. 14 in the Atlantic City Convention Center. Golota, a native of Poland who lives in Chicago, is a man of few words. He needed only two after the Bowe rematch to sum up his behavior in the ring. "I stupid," he said. 
Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 1-888-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diantond Authority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Women's 

i(~heilr Vflaazes of 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7Days A Week" 
1811 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 4663 7 
(219) 271 .. 7674 
Eurotan Tanning Beds 
Sunday Oct. 5 2:00pm 


vs. Boston College 
Free admission to all students! 
Friday, October 3, 1997 
a 28~2twin _over the v~·"-c.'-''-' Raiders. Anders also ..a,. s~yard touchdown 
pass -that game. And then there's Allen. Allen ran for 78 yards and 
picked up rushing touchdowus e number 114 and 115 against Seattle last weekend. 
ThEl Dolphins say they aren!t forgetting about Rison in focus­ing on the Kabsas City n.mning
attack. . 

''They ean say what they }¥ant to say,'; Rison said. ''We're making plays, that's all that counts:' 
CALL BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS TODAY AT 232-9958 TO FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN MAKE A REAL CONTRIBUTION TO THE NEXT GENERATION. (APPLICATIONS ARE ALSO AVAILABLE AT THE CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS) 
We cordially invite all 
NOTRE DAME SENIORS 
to attend a presentation describing our two~year 
INVESTMENT BANKING FINANCIAL ANALYST PROGRAM 
Monday, October 6, 1997 7:00 ~9:00P.M. Room 21 0, Center for Continuing Education 
Reception to follow the presentation. If you wish to apply to the program, please turn in a resume to Career and Placement on October 13th or 14th 
SMITII BARNEY 
Smith Harney is an Equal Opportunity Employer MIF/DN. ©1997 Smith Barney Inc. Member SIPC AMemberof7ra"'lenGrouP't 
Friday, October 3, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 27 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS 
DILBERT 
u

/>.. MOB OF STUPID PEOPLE I-lOW'S
HEY I CAREFUL! YOU'RE -= THEY IR.IEO TO 
ATTACK OOGBERT'S HOUSE TI-lE
GETTING WATER ALLOVER RUIN OUR LI>..WN
i 

OUR PLI\N TO DRINK ALL Of GRI\55 ... HIS HOSE WATER lS"l'T WORKING-.----------, 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28Summed up 56 Miltonian sea 
30 Badgers creature 5Makeamove 34 Not tacit 
1 Road runners? 
57 End of the quote

8 Pastime 36 Toot 14 Plaudits, of a 
61 Mauna-­

38 Aerialist's 
sort 62 Nickels and 
insurance 15 "--any drop dimes
39 Money lender, 
to drink": 63 Source of the 
for short 

Coleridge quote
40 Quote, part 3 
16 Went easy on 65 Warehouse
41 Terra-­
17 Start of a quote worker, at times 19 Snapper 43 Familiar 
66 Hotel sign 20 Four, on the substitution 
67 Bad spots? 

phone 44 Holding steady 68 Noted Titanic 21 Quote, part 2 46 St. Francis's couple23 --ai-Khaimah home 69 Puncture sound (one of the 47 Exude 70 StrataUnited Arab 49 It may involve Emirates) gas24 Area of coli. 
51 Have words DOWNstudy (with)25 Doo-wop part 
1 Party places? 26 Painton 
52 Russo of 2 Hawaii 
"Ransom" 3 Freedom Magellan's 

compass 54 Educ. group 
fighters 4 Its business is booming

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Pepto-Bismol, e,g. 
22 Person with the 6 Term of keys familiarity 27 Train sta. 7 Leaves' home posting 29 Borders
aEnglish stage actress 
31 Unable to stand Win wood 
the heat? 32 Circulates
9 Jet 33Ways up 

-=-+-=-+=-f'llllll loir'::'-+=-+':'-1 1oKind of copy 
35 Little one -=-r.=+::::-t=-'!"t::-liiillli• 11 Uffizi dis p 1a y 
37 Mac rivals -:71.-E-E-F-E-fl!lllfl!l~ 12 Cosmos star 
40 Certain knife -:-+=-+~~ 13 Carl Sagan's 42 C.I.A.'s "Thepragons of forerunner 45 Bygone regiment 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ttlmm~' Wynl'ttt', Lori Singl'r, Tina Yother~, Bob Marley 
DEAR EUCENIA: I was born on Aug. 2o, l%5, ,,t R:SO p.m. I consider ll'lysPlf to he an amateur astrologer, and I dm wondt•ring if you \\'Ould concur with my general as.Sessn1ent ot my compatibilitv with mv girlfrit'nd. I have put together our composite chort, and our Sun is in Sc_nrpio, which is significant, itS our relation­ship is extn·rnely sexual. I am well a\-van~ of the diffen:.'nCL'~ in our respec­hvL' n(ltures. I believe we art' very op­posite. However, dilierences provide the greatest opportunity for growth. My question is: What do you believe are the long-term prospects for this relationship? She was born on Feb. 1, l96L 
Patrick 
DEAR PATRICK: I d& agree that your comparison isn't bad with your Aquarius partner, but the longevity of this relationship is another ques­tion. You are going thrcugl• a period that is creating a real need to settle down. She, on the other hand, is moving into a period of change and uncertainty. I fear that your timing as a couple may be off. My suggestion to you isto build a solid and trusting friendship/relationship until !ate next year when I feel her cha.rt indi­cates that she may be in a better posi­tion to commit to you. She is not see­ing things too clearly regarding love. Therefore, if she wants to settle down now, it is best to back away, because the end result is likely to be a split-up late next year instead of a commitment. I do question the level of honesty at an emotional level that you and your partner are sharing at this time. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Your 
BY SPRI\'(ING WATER ON IT. BUT NOW IT'5 TURNED INTO 
A HOSE FIGHT. 
) 

l\.1\0VIE THIS 'X/EEI< 
LOST WORLD 
UNO.SMC AND HCC STUDENTS-200LLARS FRIDAY. SATURDAY CUSHING AUDITORIUM SHOWINGS-8oo AND I030PM 
temper w~ll l--.L. L'-'plosnT ·lrv rh1t tn gl'l into deball'~ that may ruin a gl)od 
rL·lati1mship. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): L·ll­dL'rh.lndL·dnL·~~ on the p.Ht of ll)­wurker~ r:-. L'\"ldL'nt. DiftlcultiL'~.'\·Jth authority f1gure~ could po~e .1 prob­!t•m fur VUll. 
GEMINI (May 22-june 21l: Be il\\'Ctfl' of dL'Ct'ption when dealing with gwup:-.. Dtln't gin.· too much in order to impTL'"':-. uthcrs. 
CANCER \june 22-July 22): Dc·­ception or contu~ion reg.1rding rela­tionship~ \\'ill lKCUr if vou haven't commLmJc.lted l1penly. · 
LEO () uly 23-Aug. 23): You will be slightly aL_Jdent-prone today. Proceed \vith caution \\"hl'n operating a \"l•hi­cle or equipment of any sort. 
VIRGO (Aug. 21-Sept. 22): Your partner will be• upset and emotional if you ha\'e been wrapped up in your O\Vn concerns 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Argu­n1ents \ovith vnur mate will turn into major fights-ii \'<Ill doP't control the situation. Be honest and precise. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Put your energy into work-related mat­ters. Don't im·olve yourself in co­workers' personal problems. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): Difficulties "·ith uwcstments are like­
lv. Do not lend or borrow rnonev. Don't let children take ad\'antage of you. 
CAPRICOR!\' (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): o~ception and P~'OT con1municahon in your horne ennronment are likely. Dlln't o\·erload ,-our plate. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 18): You will be in tlw mood to socialize. Plea­sure trips and iamil\' gatherings will be condunn:' to romantic encounters. 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): Financial deception is e\·ident. You may misplace rramey or jewelry if you aren't e>.tremely carefuL 
the CCFM ND Family Francis of on the 3rd . in honor of 
Pi>no'hl1orn ChapeL at 287· 

,"'"'''"'"u•~•"' Ayo will be held p.tn. atthe Center for ,.,...,,.~,,,w, ''Making Choices that ''t"''"'·'-'"'u-If interested, call 
Shrimp Fried Rice 
Hot& Sour Soup >Grilled Steaks ' .. French Fried Shrimp 

-
46 Seaport southwest of Nice 
48 On the double so Branch of 
physics 53 Athirst 55 Valuable 
diamond? 
57 Bruins' home 58 Greek characters 59 Hotel in "The Graduate" 60 Goddess of fertility 64 Test place 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.. 
;·LaFortune Bal 9:00pm Frid Oct. 3 

SPORTS Weekend 
page 28 Friday, October 3, 1997 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Defending champs open conference play 

3 Villanova (1) 99 10-5 4 Connecticut 86 11-8 
... 
5 Syracuse 78 11-5 6 St. John's 76 6-6 7 Georgetown 67 8-6 8 West Vir~inia 50 8-5 9 Seton Ha I 34 10-7 10 Rutgers 33 11-8 11 Providence 24 13-6 12 Boston College 16 4-13 
(first place votes Jt, parentheses) 
Dave P1emng/The Observer 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
Irish host Eagles in Big East showdown 
By ALLISON KRILLA outscored the opposition 19 to one in Sports Writer the past three games. Freshman Anne Makinen and sopho­
For the first time in two weeks. the more Jenny Heft lead the team with undefeated Notre Dame women's soc­nine goals apiece, while Manthei has cer team (1 0-0-1, 5-0 in the Big East) tacked 11 assists onto the NCAA 
-
takes a breather from its hectic travel­career mark she owns. ing schedule, hosting Big East confer­"The freshmen have made the ence opponent Boston College on adjustment to college life and college Sunday at Alumni Field. soccer," said Manthei. "They have 
The Eagles (4-3-1, 3-3 in the Big really stepped into the roles we needed East) will challenge the high-powered them to." Irish offense with a formidable defense Tuesday's 8-0 victory over Indiana led by Big East Defensive Player of the was a prime example of Notre Dame's Week Courtney Schaeffer. The Boston recent domination. College goalkeeper allowed three goals Seven different players scored for in three games, as the Eagles went 1-the Irish, including three freshmen, 1-1, including a 1-1 tie with 18th­two sophomores. one junior and one ranked Harvard. senior. The team scored four goals in 
"BC is usually one of the better each half, controlling the ball enough teams in the Big East," said senior co­to allow the Hoosiers only four shots captain Holly Manthei. "They're not on goal. one of those teams that will just let us "Our win on Tuesday was the first walk all over them, they will come out time that we played really well for 90 hard. We have to go into this game minutes," said Manthei. thinking that we can take something Goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene, who has from it, and work on playing well for not been truly tested since the adi­90 minutes." das!LadyFootlocker Classic two weeks 
Trying to continue its winning ways ago, made one save to earn her eighth will be a deep Irish squad that has 
see W. SOCCER I page 20 


aJ • Women's lnterhall roundup
II 
at Stanford, 
at SMU, 
Tomorrow, 2:30p.m. 
M Topay, 7:30p.m. 
~ 

see page 22
......

• 
vs. Boston College, 
vs. St. John's,
@ CI:J • Men's soccer preview 
w October 5, I p.m. 
Today, 7 p.JJ1. 
see page 24 
~ 
• JOCK STRIP 

'True' fans 
•

recogn1ze errors 
By GENE BRTALIK Spores Wriier 

For the past several weeks I have heard and read people complain and whine about the fan reaction during the course of Notre Dame's three consecutive losses. These people complain about the boos that have been heard, or about the blame that is being assessed to certain members of the Notre Dame coaching staff. 
I feel it is now time to speak on behalf of all those who jeer our beloved team. We have heard people say that we are ND (which according to some people the N and the D resemble the first and last letters of the phrase No gooD), implying that here at Notre Dame we shouldn't mock anyone regardless of what happens on the field. People want us to follow the phrase on the back of The Shirt; Cheer, Cheer for Old Notre Dame (the same people as above end this quote from our fight song with, "because new Notre Dame sucks"). 
The two examples I have given above in parentheses would be viewed by many as the typical statement from a student who was anti-NO. In my opinion these are the true fans of the Notre Dame foot­ball team. 
"What does he mean by 'true fans'?" you might say. There are 10,000 students who fill the stadium every home game to cheer on the Irish. hut the several that are negative are the true fans? Yes, that is exactly what I am sayirig, and I will explain why. 
At every Notre Dame home game there exists two types of fans: social fans and true fans. Social fans are the ones that attend the game because it is the thing to do. They are more concerned about the cheers than what is going on in the field. These fans also stand with their friends try­ing to figure out what their plans will he that night. The most important thing to them is whether they will go to Bridget's, Finnigan's, Coaches. or the Linebacker after the game. 
The true fans are the ones who can identify players, and watch every play with a care­ful eye. They try to guess what play the team should run. and look out for any mishaps that may happen. True fans could care less about the new cheer set to the song from "Star Wars," 
see JOCK STR1P I page 20 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, Notre Dame's volleyball team will return to Big East conference play. a part of the schedule which histori­cally has been very successful for them. 
Friday Notre Dame will play host to St. John's, a team that has struggled in the Big East over the past few years. The Irish have a record of 2-0 against the Red Storm, includ­ing a three-game win last year. St. John's has a record of 6-6 on the season. after defeating Manhattan College in three games on Sept. 23. Last sea­son, they had a record of 24-7 and tied f01; fifth place in the Big East. In last year's confer­ence tournament, St. John's lost in the first round to No. 3 seed Villanova. "They're easily in the top half of our conference," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said about the Red Storm. "They're very good defensively, and they have a strong setter. They look to be a pretty competitive squad." 
Sunday the Irish will face off against Connecticut, who is 11­8 on the season. The two teams have met only twice pre­viously, with the Irish holding a 2-0 advantage. The Huskies went 18-13 on the season last year, and also tied for fifth in conference play. 
"Connecticut is also a very competitive team," Brown said. "Their setter and opposite are strong offensively and they will be the players we'll have to key on." 
1997 Preseason Big East Volleyball Poll ~ 
Rank  Team  Points  Record  
1  Notre Dame (11)  121  7-5  
2  Pittsburgh  108  7-4  

The team has been on a tear over the past few weeks. having won their last live matches and seven of their last eight. Connectieut will play Syracuse tonight before their match against the Irish. 
The Irish (7-5) have also been busy over the last two weeks. Following a three-set win over Marquette Golden Eagles, the team made use of a 1 0-day lull in the schedule to change their setup. "We just changed our offensive structure only slight­ly," said Brown. 
"We've been moving the line­up a little and trying to give ev­eryone a chance to be in the offensive a bit morn." 
"We've been redesigning a couple of things," junior Lindsay Treadwell said. "We're going to have a balanced 
offense which should help our 
ofl'ensive power as a whole. 
We should be able to improve 
a lot off of this." 

Treadwell was named MVP 
in last season's Big East 
Tournament al'ter seoring 26 
kills over two games on a solid 
.610 hitting percentage. 
This season, the Irish are 
heavily favored to win their 
third straight conference title, 
despite a deceiving record and 
some minor setbacks. The 
league's 12 head coaches have 
picked Notre Dame to win the 
regular season title. The team 
picked up 11 possible first­
place votes, with the sole 
remaining one going to 
Villanova. 

"I think of the conference 
almost like a new season," 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 26 

Irish Insider • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Friday, October 3, 1997 
FIGHTIN' IRISH 
Punt Returns: #-Yards 6-31 11-121 lnt Returns: #-Yards 4-38 4-11 0 Fumbles-Lost 3-1 4-3 Denson 1 
NO Opp Penalties-Yards 29-263 24-182 Nelson 8.4 0 
13.8 21.3 Average Per Game 65.8 45.5 O'Leary 5 13.6 0 First Downs 81 80 Punts-Yards 22-977 15-660 Getherall 5 9.4 0 Rushing 32 37 Time Of Possession/Game 32:53 27:04 Passing 46 39 3rd Down Conversions 26/58 23/52 Field Goals FGM-FGA Pet Long Blk Penalty 3 4 4th Down Conversions 1/6 1/2 Sanson 2-3 .667 34 0 Rushing Yardage 528 700 Sacks By-Yards 7-40 4-26 Attempts 150 165 Field Goal Attempts 2-3 5-9 Defensive Stats UT AT Total ForLoss Sacks lnt-Yds Average Per Rush 3.5 4.2 Friday 21 15 36 0 1.0-5 0 Average Per Game 132.0 175.0 Individual Statistics Dansby 17 17 34 3-20 0.5-18 0 TO's Rushing 4 7 Bryant 16 14 30 3-6 2..0-7 0 Passing Yardage 896 778 Rushing Att Net Avg TO Long Avg/G Guilbeaux 20 7 27 1-2 0 1-0 Att-Comp-lnt 137-92-4 102-65-4 Denson 86 306 3.6 3 19 76.5 Minor 15 10 25 4-8 0.5-3 2-37 Average Per Pass 6.5 7.6 Goodspeed 18 81 4.5 0 14 27.0 Covington 15 9 24 0 0 0 Average Per Catch 9.7 12.0 PowIus 19 54 2.8 0 22 13.5 Average Per Game 224.0 194.5 Driver 14 37 2.6 1 9 9.3 TO's Passing 3 2 Barry 5 31 6.2 0 22 7.8 Total Offense 1424 1478 Total Plays 287 267 Passing Effie Att-Comp-lnt Pet YdsTD Avg/G
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Average Per Play 5.0 5.5 PowIus 124.39 136-92-4 67.6 896 3 224.0
Sophomore Raki Nelson had his best 
Average Per Game 356.0 369.0
game of the year against Michigan. 
CARDINALS 
Average Per Play 

Average Per Game 394.8 
Kickoff Returns: #-Yards12-290 
Punt Returns: #-Yards 12-145 Team Statistics Stanford Opp lnt-Retums: #-Yards 6-78 Points Per Game 32.5 28.3 Fumbles-Lost 6-3 First Downs 81 78 Penalties-Yards 33-253 Rushing 33 29 Punts-Yards 20-931 Passing 43 45 Average Per Punt 46.5 Penalty 5 4 Time of Possession/Game29:04 Rushing Yardage 575 517 3rd Down Conversions 18/55 Rushing Attempts 163 143 4th Down Conversions 6/1 0 Average Per Rush 3.5 3.6 Sacks-by-Yards 13-75 Average Per Game 143.8 129.3 FG Attempts 3-6 TO's Rushing 9 5 Passing Yardage 1004 984 Individual Statistics Att-Comp-lnt 127-74-5 142-81-6 Average Per Pass 7.9 6.9 Rushing Att Net Avg Average Per Catch 13.6 12.1 Bookman 51 338 6.6 Average Per Game 251.0 246.0 Mitchell 64 266 4.2 TO's Passing 7 9 Comella 12 67 5.6 Total Offense 1579 1501 Lacey 5 20 4.0 Total Plays 290 285 Dunn 2 17 8.5 
5.3 375.3 23-553 10-117 5-0 7-6 22-223 25-1043 41.7 
30:56 22/56 1/2 16-122 3-4 
TO Long Avg/G 3 67 84.5 1 27 66.5 3 32 16.8 0 11 20.0 1 21 4.3 

Passing Effie Att-Cmp-lnt Pet Yds TO Avg/G Hutchinson 135 127-74-5 58.3 1004 7 251.0 
Receiving No Yds Avg TO Long Avg/G Walters 33 483 14.6 2 46 120.8 Dunn 12 170 14.2 2 80 42.5 Mitchell 6 48 8.0 0 15 12.0 Pitts 5 61 12.2 0 24 20.3 Comella 4 50 12.5 0 21 12.5 
Defensive Stats UT AT Total ForLoss Sacks lnt Primus 24 2 26 1-3 0 0 Hamilton 19 4 23 1-2 0 0 Haskins 11 8 19 2-9 0.5-6 1-22 Hill 15 3 18 2-10 1.0-6 0 Steen 13 4 17 2-11 1.5-7 0 Wong 12 5 17 7-37 4.5-27 0 
C. Johnson 16 0 16 0 0 1-0 
Courtesy of Stanford Sports Information Mike Mitchell ranks fourth on Stanford's career yards rushing list. 


...-.,-----..,..............-~---------------'""""'---~ ~~------·~_,..--~---------------~·----~ 
Friday, October 3, 1997 
Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS page 3 

IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE•.• 
O
nly five times in this school's 111-year history has the foot­ball team lost three of its first four games. The last time this occurred was in 1986 during Lou Holtz's first year. 
Irish head coach Bob Davie made a bold statement in Tuesday's press conference. He promised that this week's football team will be better than last week's. 
"As far as us, I do think we're a better football team right now than we were last week at this time," Davie said. "We've made some progress. We've taken some small steps." 
Last weekend against Michigan, Notre Dame was penalized time and time again. In fact, the Irish are averaging around 60 yards per-game. 
"It's more holding penalties 
C
oming off a wild victory against Oregon, Stanford looks to settle down this week­end. The Cardinal has won eight of its last nine. 
The 109-point game against Oregon State was a record breaker. It was the most points scored in a Stanford game. 
In the last meeting between Notre Dame and Stanford, the Irish walked away with a 34-15 win at home. 
Captaining the Cardinal offense is junior quarterback Chad Hutchison. "He's not only tall. he has a great arm, quick release, but he runs extremely well." Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "He's extremely mobile for a big, tall quarter­back." 
The strength for the Cardinal can be found at running back where seniors Anthony Bookman and Mike Mitchell return for their final season. Mitchell and Bookman are currently ranked fourth and fifth on Stanford's career yards rushing list. Against Oregon and Oregon State both rushed for over 100 yards. 
"They've got two excellent tail­backs," Davie said. "One's a big­ger, stronger player. The other, Bookman. is a real quick player '------­
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
that we tried to recruit here at 
Kory Minor looks to terrify Cardinal quarterback Chad Hutchison. 
Notre Dame." 
Another dangerous player is their flanker, Troy Walters. Already he has caught balls for 483 yards. Currently, he ranks fourth in the nation with 8.25 receptions per game and 120.8 receiving yards per game, rank­ing him seventh nationally. 
The special teams for the Cardinal also excels with several key offensive performers chip-than I've seen called in a long, long time," Davie said about the Michigan game. "Certainly most of our penalties were on offense. But as in anything, there's not one simple solution or one simple reason to it." 
Last week, the Irish could not capitalize on numerous fourth­quarter turnovers by the Wolverines. Davie admitted these were problems which must be dealt with. 
"On offense, I think it's critical that we elminate the penalties," he said. "I think our red-zone offense is some thing we have to continue to work on." 
Senior quarterback Ron Powlus is coming off one of his better games of the season. Thus far in the season, he is 92-of-136 pass­ing for 896 yards and three touchdowns. 
.•• CARDINAl ON THE OFFENSIVE 
"I think he has progressed well," Davie said. "I think he's playing well. And I think as he becomes more confident and more comfortable with this offense, you'll see him even play better toward the end of this sea­son." 
Junior running back Autry Denson leads the team's rushing attack. Currently, he has gained 306 yards on 86 carries. 
Davie remains positive about the future: "I think the attitude of this football team has been and continues to be excellent.... I do think we'll get this thing turned around. I think the only way to get it turned around is to continue to work hard, continue to be con­sistent, continue to identify the problems and try to find solutions for the problems." 
-Kathleen Lopez 
Quarterbacks 
Hutchinson is the best QB the Irish will face. He is averaging over 250 yards a game and completing 58 percent of his passes. He was also drafted by the Braves as a pitcher in the first round in '95. 


Running Backs 
Mitchell and Bookman rank fourth and fifth in Cardinal record books. Goodspeed is out and Spencer is still not healthy for the Irish. 


H
BC] Receivers 
I 
D 
Walters will give the secondary fits. Last week's game against 
the best secondary in 

the land was impressive. The return of Getherall will add a spark. 

Offensive Line 
Hutchinson has seen too much of opposing defensive linemen ­

the Cardinal line has given up 15 sacks. The Irish need to play like they did in the first half for 60 minutes. 
Defensive Line 
End Kailee Wong is a prime time performer and a Lombardi award finalist. He has help up front by 280 pound tackle Carl Hansen. 


Linebackers 

In the middle 
Draft 
and Haskins are as experienced as they come. They have combined for 412 career tackles and 14 sacks. The Irish are still thin and Ronnie Nicks is questionable for the game. 


Secondary 
Guilbeaux and Rossum will have to pick up their play against Walters and Hutchinson. The Cardinal have given up just under 1,000 yards. 



Special Teams 
Will this be the game 

Rossum finally breaks loose? The Stanford coverage is sus­pect but their punter is 6th in the nation with a 46.5 average. 
Coaching 
Willingham's squad 8-1 since starting 2-5 last season. Davie and Co. need to build on last week's moral victory. 
Overall 
There is one really, scary stat this one. The score the 1997 Sun Bowl Stanford 38, Michigan State 0. 
ping in on the effort. Senior Damon Dunn is hyped as one of the best kickoff returners in the nation. 
"Dunn in the past, you look back last year, he was a top draft kickoff returner," Davie said. 
Also threatening on punt returns is Stanford's flanker, Walters. "Certainly Walters is an excellent punt returner," 
Davie said. "He ranks up there in the nation in punt returns." 
"I look at their offense," said Davie, "I think the thing that jumps out at you is just how tal­ented they are at the skilled position. Also how experienced they are in the skilled position. It seems like those players have 
been  there  an  awfully long  
time."  
-Kathleen Lopez  

page4 Irish Insider • COVER STORY 

weekend pressures 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With the graduation of star inside line­backers Lyron Cobbins and Kinnon Tatum last spring, Jimmy Friday knew that he would have some big shoes to fill. What he didn't know was that he would have to fill those shoes without the help of junior Bobbie Howard. 
Against Georgia Tech in the season opener, Friday received his first start at the SAM linebacker slot and really his first extensive playing time of his career. Three quarters later, Friday saw himself in the WlLL linebacker position and call­ing the defensive plays after the injury to Howard, and as a result, the inside linebacker with the most experience. 
"We've been really pleased with Jimmy," head coach Bob 
Davie said. "We've put him in a tough situation. He practiced all spring at SAM linebacker then we had to move him to WILL linebacker in a game. This being his first year actually playing, that's a pretty heavy load on him." 
"I didn't play much my first two years and then I was given the opportunity last spring," said the Missouri City, Texas native. "I just did whatever I could to take advantage of the opportu­nity granted, and I'm happy that I'm able to help the team as much as I can." 
Friday certainly has helped the Irish defense. He leads the team in tackles, and wherever the ball goes he goes. But Friday does more for the Irish than just punish opposing ball carriers. 
"Even though he is a young guy who hasn't played much, he brings a lot of leadership and a lot of focus as far as getting the team ready to go," Kory Minor said. "He's a great person to be around and a great role model, and he's doing a great job for us." 
With the linebacking corps thinned due to graduation and injury, Friday has been counted on to take the role of leader for the even less experienced linebackers like Ronnie Nicks and true freshman Grant Irons. 
"Bobbie is a big loss to the defense," Friday said. "He's a great linebacker, and he is real good at making quick decisions. And with him not being there, I have had to get better as far as com­munication and being more vocal and thinking on my toes." 
"He's been forced to become a leader," Davie noted. "It's really unfair to Jimmy because he's had to get the other younger linebackers lined up. So it's put an added load on him, but I think it's kind of accelerated his growth a little bit. He's been a leader for us, and even though it's not fair to ask him to be, I think he's responded well." 
"I wouldn't say I feel a lot more pres­sure," Friday said about becoming a starter. "I was excited and still am excit­ed to know that I'm on the field and helping the defense." 
Friday has not yet developed into a Tatum or Cobbins and their big-play capability, but he has given the middle of the defense exactly what they need right now-consistency. 
"He's stepped in and picked up every­thing he needs to know and he's helped our defense out quite a bit," Minor said. 
"He's been very steady," Davie 

expressed. "He hasn't made a whole lot of big plays, but he's been very consis­tent, and he's kind of been a stabilizing force in there even though he's a young guy himself." 
In Friday's first two seasons at Notre Dame, the high school all-American was forced to watch from the sidelines. But Friday did more than watch he took advantage and learned. 
"I definitely learned a lot from them (Tatum and Cobbins)," Friday said. "Just watching them lead by example and just 

Friday, October 3, 1997 

talking to them with whatever questions I had has been a benefit to me. Lyron lived right down the hall from me my freshman year, and we talked about a lot of different things." 
Friday's transition from backup to starter and from starter to leader is not the only change he has had to make in his relatively short time wearing the Blue and Gold. 
In his freshman campaign, Friday was moved to defensive end. His goal on the line was to get as big as possible, but he was forced to lose that weight when he was moved back to inside linebacker. 
"I felt that I needed to lose some weight," Friday said. "I was up to about 255 pounds, and I knew that I had to lose some weight to increase my quick­ness. Playing inside linebacker involves more lateral movement, and you have to be more rounded. You have to take on blockers and be able to drop back into pass coverage. So you can't be one dimensional." 
The transition from end to linebacker was not easy for Friday-he was a man without a position for awhile. But he has found a home in the middle of the defense. 
"He's a lot more comfortable now that he's gotten more snaps at inside line­backer," Minor pointed out. "He knows exactly what he's doing now, and he's really familiar with the defense." 
"It's kind of amazing. Last year at this time, I coached Jimmy, and we moved him from end to linebacker," Davie said. 
"We talked at great length about what his position was. We really weren't sure if it would be defensive end or line­backer or even tight end because he wasn't responding real well at line­backer." 
"But he decided to stay at linebacker, and through the off-season he made a commitment to become a better player," Davie continued. "So its fun to see a guy like that get some rewards for all the hard work he's put into it." 
Considering the situation of lineback­ing corps, it has also been essential for Davie to see Friday raise his level of play exactly when the defense needs it. 
------,~-----­
Friday, October 3, 1997 Irish Insider • THE TEAMS 
DAME SCHEDULE 
1st season at Notre Dame

Bob Davie 
Career record: 1-3 At Notre Dame: 1-3 Against Stanford: 0-0 
In the S 
Irish secondary 
Hutchinson is the finest passer on the Irish schedule, and Guilbeaux, Rossum and Co. will be tested early and often. Hutchinson puts it up over 30 times a game. 
The Irish unit will have to eliminate the laps­es which cost them last week, but they will need to be on their toes for the full 60 minutes 'cause 
·~. 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Deveron Harper will be challenged by Stanford. 
Hutchinson will burn them. 
The backfield may get some help if Mattison continues to blitz. Hutchinson's 6-foot-5, 230 pound frame doesn't make him the most mobile, and his line is inexperienced. 
Stanford 

Career record: 17-10-1 At Stanford: 17-10-1 The Observer/Brandon Candura Against Notre Dame: 0-0 Jarvis Edison must contain the Cardinal offense. 
"' ·J·r,\ ~J .... fl rj u" ·.) .r J .r':.JJj  
No. 1 2  Name Deke Cooper Benny Guilbeaux  Pos. FS ss  Ht. 6-3 6-1  Wt. 209 207  YR so JR  SPLITEND 80-Johnson 3Hevy  No. Name 2 Donnie Spragan 3 Rossi Jones  Pas. OLB WR  Ht. 6-4 6-1  Wt. 237 185  YR JR so  
3 4 5 6  Ron Powlus Kory Minor A'jani Sanders Malcolm Johnson  QB OLB ss SE  6-3 6-1 5-11 6-5  225 234 188 213  SR JR JR SR  3 4 5 6  Scott Reilly Anthony Bookman Troy Walters Than Merrill  PK RB FL ss  5-11 5-8 5-8 6-3  210 188 170 215  so SR JR so  
7 8 9 10 11 12 12 13 14  Jarious Jackson Eric Chappell Raki Nelson Deveron Harper Jay Johnson ScottCengia Mario Strayhorn Jimmy Friday Ivory Covington  QB QB Fl CB SE K OLB ILB CB  6-0 6-4 5-11 5-11 6-0 5-10 6-1 6-2 5-10  219 213 189 185 186 181 214 227 169  JR so so so so SR JR JR SR  FULLBACK 28·Barry33-Spencer  7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15  Todd Husak Juan-Carlos Lacey Mike Biselli nmSmith Joe Borchard Randy Fasani Kailee Wong Kevin Miller Eddie Patterson  QB RB PK FS QB QB DE P/PK FS  6-3 5-10 5-11 6-4 6-4 6-3 6-3 6-0 5-11  210 195 185 220 195 215 268 200 200  so so FR JR FR FR SR SR so  
15 16  Allen Rossum Zak Kustok  CB QB  5-8 6-2  179 190  SR FR  17 18  Corey Hill Pat Shinnefield  CB PK  6-0 6-0  205 190  SR JR  
17 18  Hunter Smith Cikai Champion  p SE  6-2 5-10  210 183  JR SR  19 20  Chad Hutchinson Jeff Allen  QB FL  6-5 6-4  230 210  JR SR  
18 19 19 20 20 21 22  Joey Getherall Jim Sanson Wayne Gunn Kevin Kopka Byron Joyner Shannon Stephens Jay Vickers  WR K OLB K FS FL TB  5-9 5-9 6-2 5-7 6-1 5-10 5-11  165 179 210 214 188 175 218  FR so JR JR JR JR so  RIGHT TACKLE 73·Doughty 67-Wagner  21 22 23 23 24 25 26  Eddie Gayles CoyWire Doug Brown Tafiti Uso Kadar HamiHon Emory Brock Alistair WMe  RB RB FB WRIDB ss FB CB  5-9 6-1 6-0 6-0 5-11 6-0 6-0  190 205 210 175 210 205 200  FR FR SR FR SR so SR  
23 24 25 26 27  Autry Denson Ty Goode Tony Driver Lee Lafayette Bobbie Howard  TB CB TB CB ILB  5-10 5-11 6-3 5-9 5-10  184 184 205 189 228  JR SR FR so JR  TIGHT END 8Hiolloway89-Ridder  27 28 29 30 31  nm Bass Charley Dean Chris Johnson Che Holloway Robert Lathan  FS ss CB CB CB  5-11 5-11 5-11 5-11 5-9  195 183 185 194 175  JR so JR so JR  
28  Ken Barry  FB  6-0  221  SR  32  Mike Mitchell  RB  6-0  220  SR  
29 30 31 32  Cooper Rego Jarvis Edison Darcey Levy Clement Stokes  TB FS RB TB  5-9 6-4 6-2 6-0  185 221 195 205  FR SR FR SR  FLANKER 88·Brown 9-Nelson  33 34 35 36  Chris Draft Greg Comella Jon Eide Maxwell Stevenson  ILB FB RB FB  6-1 6-1 5·5 5-11  220 235 187 242  SR SR so JR  
33  Jamie Spencer  FB  6-1  248  JR  37  Jimmie Johnson  WR  6-1  170  SR  
34 35  Ronnie Nicks Robert Phelps  ILB CB  6-0 6-0  220 189  so SR  38 39  Evan Herring Jason Willock  CB WR  5-10 6-3  180 190  JR so  
36 36 37  Chris Wachtel Tim Lynch Ron Israel  p CB DB  5-11 5-9 6-1  207 tn 175  SR SR FR  40 41 42  Jon Ritchie Jeff Byrd Ruben Carter  FB RB CB  6-2 5-10 5-8  240 180 160  SR SR FR  
37  Kevin Rice  FB  6-0  200  SR  43  Jon Haskins  ILB  6-3  243  SR  
38 38  Brock Williams Paul Grimm  CB CB  5-11 5-9  175 170  FR SR  44 45  Tony Vella Simba Hodari  DE CB  6-4 6-1  255 186  JR FR  
39  Anthony Denman  LB  6-3  205  FR  46  Aaron Focht  FL  5-11  180  so  
40 40  Jason Murray Brendan Farrell  FB ss  6-2 5-11  235 215  FR so  =-----....1 47 48  Frank Primus Jamien McCullum  CB WR  5-11 6-1  190 176  JR FR  
41  Joe Ferrer  OLB  6-2  230  so  49  Mark Sanders  CB  5-11  170  so  
42 43 44 45 45 46 47  Antwoine Wellington ILB Grant Irons ILB Mike Tribe ILB Joey Goodspeed FB Chris McCarthy K Kevin Dansby LB Bill Mitoulas OLB  6-0 6-5 5-10 6-0 5-11 6-2 6-1  237 225 215 225 205 210 225  so FR FR so SR FR SR  !II  50 51 52 53 54 55 56  Mike Burke Matt Friedrichs Anthony Gabriel Sharcus Steen Chuks Amajor Byron Glaspie Blaine Maxfield  LB LB LB ILB ILB ILB c  6-2 6-1 6-2 6-1 6-0 6-1 6-4  210 220 210 235 222 230 280  FR FR FR JR so so SR  
48  Johnathan Herbert  WR  5-11  194  so  FULLBACK  57  Dominic Brunetti  ILB  6-1  223  so  
49  Joe Thomas  ILB  6-2  223  JR  34-Comella  58  John Sande  OLB  5-10  220  so  
50 51  David Payne Melvin Dansby  c DE  6-0 6-4  281 276  JR SR  60 61  Zack Quaccia Kirk Chambers  OT OT  6-4 6-8  265 270  FR FR  
52  Alex Mueller  OG  6-6  270  JR  62  Jon Abendschein  c  6-4  260  so  
53 54 55 56  Lamont Bryant Luke Petitgout Shelton Jordan Kurt Belisle  OLB OT DE DE  6-3 6-5 6-3 6-2  243 287 241 266  JR SR JR SR  ~  63 64 66 67  Andrew Kroeker Desmond Cook Matl Motherway Joe Fairchild  OG OG OG OG  6-4 6-3 6-4 6-6  295 285 275 285  SR JR JR JR  
57  Rick Kaczenski  c  6-4  258  SR  68  Ben Garrison  OT  6-8  265  FR  
58 58  Brendan O'Connor Mike Burgdorf  OG TE  6-2 6-0  294 205  so JR  69 70  Damian Tinsley Sam Benner  OT DE  6-5 6-5  275 260  FR so  
59  Matthew Kunz  ILB  6-0  215  SR  71  Dorean Kass  DT  6-5  255  so  
60  Scott Fagan  OLB  6-2  219  so  72  Eli Burriss  OG  6-6  290  JR  
62 64  Casey Robin John Merandi  OL c  6-7 6-3  285 272  FR so  73 74  Mike Mclaughlin Jim Telesmanich  c DE  6-4 6-3  290 245  JR so  
65  Anthony Brannan  ss  5-11  194  so  75  Carl Hansen  DT  6-5  280  SR  
66 67  JW Jordan John Wagner  OL OT  6-1 6-7  284 320  FR JR  76 n  Brian Donoghue Willie Howard  OT NT  6·6 6-4  285 278  SR so  
70  Tim Ridder  OG  6-7  298  JR  78  Travis Pfeifer  OUDL  6-4  260  FR  
71 72  Jerry Wisne Leon Hires  OG OG  6-6 6-4  295 287  JR so  79 80  Jeff Cronshagen Damon Dunn  OT WR  6-7 5-10  295 190  JR SR  
73  Mike Doughty  OT  6-7  303  SR  81  Dave Davis  WR  6-1  178  FR  
74 75 76  RobMowl Chris Clevenger Kurt Vollers  OG OT OL  6-5 6-8 6-7  294 312 275  so SR FR  82 83 84  Steve Coughlin MattWright Russell Stewart  TE TE TE  6-4 6-5 6-5  240 240 230  so FR so  
n 78  Brad Williams Jon Spickelmier  DE c  6-4 6-3  266 274  so SR  85 86  Tom my Hanson Derek Hubbard  TE TE  6-5 6-4  245 247  SR SR  
79  Mike Rosenthal  OG  6-7  315  JR  87  Austin Lee  TE  6-5  250  FR  
80  Justin Smith  WR  6-1  185  FR  88  Ben Richardson  FL  6-2  200  JR  
81  Lewis Dawson  SE  5-11  186  so  89  DeRonnie Pitts  WR  5-11  190  so  
82  Mike Gandy  TE  6-5  264  so  90  Marc Stockbauer  ILB  6-3  230  JR  
83 84  Justin Orr Mike Denvir  FL TE  6-2 6-4  233 243  SR SR  91 92  Nkem Ogbechie Marcus Hoover  DT DL  6-3 6-4  275 245  so FR  
85 86 87  Antwon Jones Dan O'Leary Jabari Holloway  NG TE TE  6-3 6-4 6-4  267 243 235  JR so FR  93 94 95  Anthony Willis Bryan Werner Brian Toner  NT DE OLB  6-2 6-5 6-3  260 260 234  SR SR JR  
88  Bobby Brown  Fl  6-3  185  JR  96 EricToner  DT  6-5  270  FR  
90  Lance Legree  NG  6-1  271  so  97  Riall Johnson  DE  6-3  235  so  
91 93 94 95 96  N. VanHook-DruckerDE B.J. Scott DE AndyWisne DL Corey Bennett NG Jim Jones NG  6-2 6-3 6-5 6-1 6-2  228 267 255 253 280  so so FR SR so  CORNERBACK 15-Rossum .24-Goode  98 99  Konti Pelligrin Andrew Currie  DE NT  6-2 6-4  240 270  JR JR  
97  Eric Glass  DT  6-4  220  so  
98  John Teasdale  TE  6-6  255  FR  
99  Jason Ching  DE  6-3  235  so  

--------------------._.,.~...,._,_.,......,.....,-----.,.---.~. ~.­
--~----·~----------~-~----­
page 6 Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT Friday, October 3, 1997 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Michigan game \Vas a return to Notre Dame football 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Spons Editor 
Last weekend we witnessed Notre Dame football. 
Not just any football, mind you, but Notre Dame football. 
For the first time this sea­son, we felt 
what it is that makes the football program at this univer­sity so spe­cial. 
No, didn't leave 


at halftime  BRIAN  
(like  a  REINTHALER  
chunk  of  AssistamSponsEditor  
t  h  e  

Michigan student section). I do realize that boys from Ann Arbor came out on top. But the result of the game was not the most important thing about last Saturday. 
The most important thing was the return of Notre Dame football in all of its mysterious glory. 
After two pathetic losses, a fading 1-2 squad went into a hostile environment as a 14­point underdog to play the sixth-ranked team in the nation, and if we had not known any better, we would have guessed, from watching the game, that these were some fairly, evenly-matched opponents. 
In fact, after 30 minutes of play, it appeared that the home team just did not have what it would take to hold off those relentless visitors. The home crowd was silent. 
Forget that five-minute spurt to start the second half. 
Forget the three elusive opportunities that Michigan gave the Irish to put the game away. 
Notre Dame dominated more than three quarters of that football game, scored two touchdowns on a defense that had yet to yield a six-pointer this season, and recovered its first three fumbles of the year on three consecutive series in the critical moments of the fourth quarter. 
It is the stuff that Notre Dame is made of. 
After four weeks of search­ing for some sign that Notre Dame is still Notre Dame, the pieces are finally starting to fall in place. 
This does not mean that the team going to go 9-3 this year before returning next season for an 11-0 regular season and a decisive bowl victory to claim the national champi­onship. What it does mean, is that the 1997 Fighting Irish are not a lost cause. 
They proved that the first three games of this season were an adjustment period, and that although the finished product may still be few weeks or even few seasons away, they have the ability and the heart to play with just about any team in the country. 
This Saturday's contest in northern California will pro­vide yet another chance for Bob Davie and his staff to achieve some measure of redemption. It is another road game versus another ranked opponent. It is the renewal of another rivalry that had been on a two-year hiatus. 
For some reason. it does not seem that the following week's showdown with Pittsburgh will offer such an opportunity. 
Davie and company must build on the successes of a week ago and they must not waste any time doing it. 
They must allow quarter­back H.on Powlus to throw downfield, and not just in the first half. 
They must accentuate the strengths of a defense which has kept the team in every game so far this year, while stressing the importance of avoiding another temporary lapse. 
Finally, they must find at least one more spark that could potentially push the Irish over the top and into the win column. A victory over the Cardinal on Saturday would highlight that spark and get some momentum rolling; momentum that could push the Irish back to the .500 mark and launch them into the second half of Davie's maiden voyage at the helm on a winning note. 
We saw a brief flash last Saturday of how things can be when the Irish simply come to play. We received a taste of the excitement that this team has to offer. 
We were given a sample of what all Notre Dame fans have so greedily come to expect. 
We saw Notre Dame football and, with the luck of the Irish, it won't be long now before we see it again. 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Bob Davie hopes that the Irish continue to make improvements. 
• THE IRISH INSIOER STAFF 
Editor: Mike Day Graphic Design: Tom Roland Associate Editor: Betsy and Jon King Baker Statistician: Jim Belden Assistant Editors: Joe Production: Mark DeBoy Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Cover: Jenn Breslow, H.einthaler Brandon Candura 
PASTA
Wol ie's SANDWICHE.S
. .

. . 
Delivering a Difference! SERVICE & ..;,_MQRE~! 
~i " :l' ,:·,, -;:,;-· .:·;~~ _· -~ ~ . ~-~~"-~~ ~-~:_· . ~~-.. :.J~~· . :.,_.. ~·~ :'·~· ._ : <·". 
Wolfie's serves SANDWICHES served on loaves that are baked FRESH daily!! 
Then top it off with Free extras: Lettuce, Tomatoes, Onions, Green Peppers, Mushrooms, Jalapenos, Cucumbers, Mayonnaise, Mustard, Olive Oil, Vinegar, Garlic Spread, Marinara Sauce, Parmesan Cheese, Salt, Pepper 
Small Sandwiches, only $2.79, or grab a large for only $4.99 
1 
Start by choosing two of these: Ham Thrkey Salami Pepperoni Beef Strips Chicken Strips Bacon Strips Meatballs American, Swiss, Cheddar or Mozzarella Cheese 

~~ -~-~-~-­
Irish Insider • THE NATION 

RISH INSIDER ye on the Nati 
Big Ten ready to rumble in Columbus 
Iowa, KSU, 
ASU fighting for respect 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
No. 11 Iowa at No. 7 Ohio State 
Here begins the free-for-all that will once again determine a Big Ten champion, but elimi­nate three or four national title contenders in the process. It is the Big Ten regular season schedule. The week one games should have little influence on the "Run for the Roses" and now it is time to get down to business. 
For the Hawkeyes, Columbus represents one of just two sig­nificant stops between Iowa City and Pasadena. A trip to Ann Arbor after a bye next week is the other. From there on out, Iowa travels to Wisconsin and Northwestern (the two biggest disappoint­ments in the conference so far) and hosts such perennial pow­ers as Minnesota, Indiana, and Purdue (don't laugh, Irish fans!), conveniently avoiding Michigan State and Penn State this season. 

The Buckeyes, who are just starting their gauntlet of a con­ference slate, need to beware. This one is huge for the Hawkeyes, and their upcoming bye week will allow them to ObseiVer File Photo focus on the task at hand. If Sophomore wide receiver Michael Wiley is one of the many weapons that the Buckeyes will showcase Ohio State peeks one game into 
when the Hawkeyes come calling for this Saturday's Big Ten showdown in Columbus. 

Mike Day (9-7) Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Ohio State Washington Nebraska 
Betsy Baker (9-7) Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Ohio State Washington Nebraska 
Joe Cavato (8-8) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Iowa Washington Nebraska 
Kathleen Lopez (11-5) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Ohio State Washington Nebraska 

Brian Reinthaler (7-9) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Iowa Washington Nebraska 

GregVelho Big East Defensive Player of the Week 
Notre Dame Ohio State Kansas State Arizona State 
its future, a trip to Happy and the Falcons. Washington, 
Valley, the Buckeyes may not with all-America candidate even get the opportunity to Rashaan Shehee, was only able choke away their national to manage 43 yards on 28 car­championship hopes against ries against Nebraska on Sept. Michigan for the third straight 20. 
season. 
With 165 yards on Saturday, Tavian Banks will become the first player in Division 1-A to break 1,000 yards rushing in the first five games of a sea­son. 


No. 25 Arizona State at No. 10 Washington 


The Sun Devils come into this significant Pac 10 showdown riding an eight-game road win­ning streak. Not to mention No. 17 Kansas State at the fact that after years of No. 3 Nebraska sheer dominance at home, the Huskies have looked vulnera­After Nebraska's perfor­ble in their house as of late. mance in Seattle two weeks Three points have decided ago, this one looks like a no­each of the last two contests brainer. The Cornhuskers between these conference foes. have won the last 28 meetings Washington will look to get between these squads and 25 back on track following its of those victories were by dou­beating at the hands of the ble-digit margins. And the aforementioned Huskers two streaks just keep on coming. weeks ago. Brock Huard Nebraska currently holds the should be ready to go despite longest home winning streak in the injury he sustained against the nation at 38 straight. Nebraska, Shehee is still aver­Is there anything at all to say aging 6.9 yards per carry, and about the Wildcats. Well, Jerome Pathon has registered Kansas State's Eric Hickson 540 yards receiving in three 
piled up 163 yards on 19 car­games to date. ries against Bowling Green last Arizona State was less than weekend. Of course, the impressive against Oregon Husker defense, led by Grant State last Saturday and its win Wistrom and Jason Peter, at Miami now looks like it can might take exception to any be chalked up to Hurricane comparisons between them mediocrity in 1997. 
TEAM 

1. Florida (36) 
2. Penn State (25) 3. Nebraska (6) 
4. 
Florida State ( 1 ) 

5. 
N. Carolina 

6. 
Michigan 


7. 
Ohio State 

8. 
Auburn 


9. 
Tennessee 

10. 
Washingotn 

11. 
Iowa 


12. 
Michigan State 

13. 
LSU 


14. 
Viginia Tech 

15. 
Washington St. 


15. Colorado 

17. 
Kansas State 

18. 
Georgia 

19. 
Stanford 

20. 
Alabama 


21. 
Texas A&M 

22. 
UCLA 

23. 
Air Force 


24. 
Brigham Young 

25. 
Arizona State 


RECORD POINTS PREV 4-0 1704 1 3-0 1673 2 3-0 1606 3 3-0 1529 4 4-0 1483 5 3-0 1404 6 4-0 1285 7 4-0 1215 8 2-1 1150 9 

• 
2-1 1111 10 
4-0 1103 11 
3-0 967 12 
3-1 847 13 
4-0 824 14 
4-0 818 15 
2-1 637 16 
3-0 563 18 
3-0 513 19 
3-1 458 20 
3-1 407 21 
3-0 388 22 
2-2 276 24 
5-0 202 
2-1 186 23 
3-1 168 25 





OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Clemson 48, Georgia Tech 29, Mississippi St. 19, Pittsburgh 19, Kansas 16, West Virginia 14, Wyoming 12, USC 11, Texas 9, Toledo 9, Colorado St. 6, Oregon St. 6, Purdue 6, North Carolina St. 4, Arkansas 2. 
TJR 

--.. ,---; . :--~~~---~~--~ -~---:........-----~----­
.. . 

Notre Dame 
vs. 



§a6illrJay9 0 c t ({])1b<er 49 
1997 
2~ 30 ]]J> .ltlrll. 
§ tcatn f({]) JrJ § tcatJi uum_ JPa R({]) ARt({]) 9 CaRif({])r n i a 








