
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 33 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Survey: Students are responsible with credit cards 
By LOUBEL CRUZ 
News Writer 
"CIIAHGE rJ'I" 
That cry is !ward from stu­dPnts all ovnr the nation. whether it is to buv books or a nPw televisionNCI~ combo for the dorm room. 
In fact, mon• r.ollngn studnnts than ever have tlwir own pnr­sonal credit cards and accounts. As a r<~sult they rNtl­iw tlw heavy r<~sponsibility of managing tlwir own expPnses and maintaining a good rrndit line. 
Whiln till' numbnr of' pPrson-
NOmen 

rally at Capitol 
By FINN PRESSLY 
News Writer 
On Oct. 4. tlw National i\lall in Washington D.C. playPd host to hunclrPcls of' thousands of Christian nwn. 
Tlwy had conw togPtlwr to attPnd "Standing in tlw Cap," a conv<•ntion orclwslraLPd by Promise KPeJwrs. a national organization of' Christian 111<'11. Tlw day's al'livi tiPs i nl' lu c!Pd group pray<'rs. spirituals. !'onf'Ps­sions of' sins. and mitny otlwr P\'l'nts gean•d towards bringing nwn bal'k to Cod and to tlwir f'amiliPs. 
Promise KP<'JWrs was f'ound!'d by f'ornwr Uniwrsity of' Colorado f<.lOlball coal'h llill. 1-.,·lcC:artnny. Tlw first PromisP K<'PJWrs con­\Pntion was lwld in .lulv I<)<) I with OVPr 4.00() HltP!HIP<'S~ 
Sin<'!' tlwn. tlw mm·pnwnt has conti!llll'd to grow. and aSS<'lll­bliPs ar<' ol'lPn hPid in sold-out football stadiums and ar<~nas. PromisP K<'<'pPrs nstimatPs that ovPr 2 million mPn have taken part in tlw organization's ron­wntions and evPnts since 1 <J<J1. 
"Our dream is to have mPn of PV<'rv racP and color. every soci;il and P!'onomir. bark-­ground. and Pwry geographical ronwr of' our !'Ountry gath~r togl'tlwr in tlu· spirit of' n~concili­ation and unity," r-.I!'CartnPY wrotP in tlw OJ;Pning l<~ltPr t;) thosP att\'nding llw ron['prenre. 
l'romisP KP<'JH'rs has drawn critirism from groups lik<' tiH• National Organization of' \Vonwn. who S<'<' thP all-mal<' organization as thn~atPning to its position. 
But arcording to Shand<'ll I lunter. on<~ of' thrPP Notn• Dam\' studrnts who att<~nd<'d tlw rally, PromisP KP<'JWrs is only misll!;­derstood by such groups. 
"The nwssage was not anti­woman." he stressPd. 
I lunt!)r was joinml at tlw rally by Piecler Bneli, a graduate stu­dent, and Wr.s Wozniak, a junior !'rom St. Edward's llall. 
lluntrr. who is a sophomore vieW!)d Saturday's rally as pri­marily an opportunity f'or spiritu­al nnrir.hnwnt. and not a politi­cally motivatPd PVPnt. 
"[ think the ov<)rall tone Iof' the event] was more inclined toward atonement for sins," llunter said. 
a! bankruptcies this year reached a record high, today's college students say they do a line job when it comes to man­aging expenditures against their incomns, with 90 percent of students rating their own approach to handling financial matters as good or excellent, according to a study by Visa U.S.A. 
"Based on their track records with the college mar­ket. Visa and its member banks have long regarded stu­dents as responsible users of l'redit. and we have confirmed that the vast majority of col-


Senior year offers challenges, closure 
lege students keep their spend­ing in line with their income and pay their bills on time," said Ben Couch, senior vice president of Visa U.S.A. 
Ninety-four percent of the students participating in the study by Visa recognize the importance of establishing a good credit rating while in col­lege, with more than half typi­cally paying their credit card balance in full each month. Only 40 percent of non-student cardholders pay their balance in full. 
see CREDIT I page 4 


The Observer/Ali McElroy 

A guitarist preceeded a lecture by Father Mark Poorman (left) last night in Walsh Hall Chapel. Poorman spoke on the issue of assisted suicide. 

Poorman speaks 
on life and death 
By SEAN VINCK 
News Writer 
Since Dr. Jack Kevorkian's rise to prominence in the early 19<JOs. issues of assisted suicide and end of life decisions havo catapulted into the public spot­light. Father Mark Poorman addressed many of these promi­nent issues in a lecture last night in Walsh Ball Chapel. 
"Reflect upon your fears about. death and dying, your religious faith, and how the two interre­late," he requested or his audi­ence early in the presentation. 
Poorman began his lecture with a group rel1ection on per­sonal responses to death situa­tions. He asked the crowd to speculate on their most-pre­fen·ecl and least-preferred death. 
"The greatest fear in death is the notion of being alone and suffering pain; almost every gmup with whom I have spoken has expressed those two major fears," he noted. 
Poorman proceeded to exam­ine death in the context of con­
t A · It 
emporary mencan cu ure. citing the case of Janet Atkins, 
the first person who committed suicide with Kevorkian's assis­tance. Atkins, a 53-year-old woman with Alzheimer's dis­ease, committed suicide several years ago in Michigan. Notably, she exhibited no symptoms of her afficition and was even able to play tennis on the morning of 
her death. Poorman said. 
"The modia glorified Atkins as a fiercely independent woman who did things her own way and refused to be a burden to others -that is how they justified Kevorkian's actions," Poorman said. "We are always going to be burdens to one another; we are created to be interconnected and interdependent." 
Poorman expounded on the theme that people must extend themselves to their fellow humans, and that being a bur­den to one's familv should not be a reason to commit suicide. 
"In response to the question 'Am I my brother's keeper?' Scripture has a resounding answer." Poorman emphasized, '"Yes!"' 
Poorman also touched upon 
see LIFE I page 4 
By MELANIE GARMAN 
Assi,rant Saint Mary's News Editor 
What could be nne of the most Pxriting y<'t challenging events of your college career? It would be 
non<' other than your senior ynar. 
Along with the prestige and privilege of possessing the title "senior" conw many struggles and challenges. 
As the Saint Mary's College community wdcomml !'resident Marilou Eldred this past Monday. the senior class rPceivml an early taste of gradu­ation. As each student dressed in lmr cap and gown to process in Monday's inauguration, a certain anxiety filled the air. 
"It is so exciting to be seniors during such an important part of the history of the College. I Iowever, it was kind of frighten­ing putting on my cap and gown so early," said senior class presi­dent Lisa Coury. 
Bdore graduation, seniors must fulfill all of the require­
~ 
~ •.•...~
....•. · 
U 
'l.l·•. '
·, 

ments of the College, while at the same time making the most of their last year on campus. 
As one of the many require­ments for graduation, each senior must complete a senior comprehensive within her major course of study. Whether it be a cumulative test in the business department, an art exhibit for the line arts majors, or an exten­sive research project and pre­sentation 1:or the speech and mass communications majors, each senior must pass this com­prehensive in order to graduate. 
According to senior Jamie Nihill, nursing majors must pass a test covering all of the material they have covered since clay one. However, unlike the business majors who prepare for the test by taking a semester long course, those in the nursing pro­gram must prepare on their own. 
Another group of students who are preparing for the ultimate test, the real world. are the ele­mentary and secondary f)duca­tion majors. In this first semes­ter, each senior is assigned a local school and grade in which she is given the freedom to take 

an important part of the history of the College." 
Lisa Coury Senior Class President 
on her own classroom. 
"I have found my experience so far very rewarding and chal­lenging at the same time," said Katie Brown. "Student teaching really gives one a clear under­standing of what being a teacher is all about." 
As each student prepares for her comprehensive and finishes up student teaching, either the job or graduate school search begins. Many students begin planning for their life after grad­uation as early as the fall of their senior year. Resumes are sent out, interviews are set up, and decisions are finalized. 
"After graduation, hopefully I will have a job with a hospital in Chicago and I can begin paying off my student loans," Nihill said. 
With all of the nerve-racking deadlines and uncertainty of what the future has in store, senior year also brings memo­rable events such as Senior Dads Weekend and the Senior Formal. 
"We've been working on Senior Dads Weekend since the beginning of the semester and we are very excited at the events 
see SENIORS I page 4 





r-----­
I 
! 
I 
t 
i 
[ 
~ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Change the 

song? 
There is a growing Dave Freddoso movement among the 
Assistant News Editor
older generation! Items ________ 
in The Observer have 
appeared from a visiting scholar who is a 
religious priest and also that old guy who 
writes a Viewpoint column for us now and 
then (not a professor, but some other guy 
somewhere in Washington). 
This new movement has overtaken many 
of our outstanding elders, even, (sigh), my 
dear old dad. 
What is their ultimate end, their deepest 
desire? Why, that we change the words of 
the Victory March: the "Loyal Sons" part, of 
course. 
I was going to write against this innova­
tion, but then I saw the light: change is 
good! What a great new idea! The words 
should reflect the reality of the situation, 
right? 
Now I'm really glad that some bright soul 
has raised this issue, because the fight song 
really does need to be changed. And I pro­
pose that there is much more to be changed 
in our Fight Song than most people have 
taken the time to think about. 
First of all, "Old Notre Dame" does not 
"win over all." We've discovered that 
enough times this season already. That part 
of the song will certainly have to be 
changed, in the interest of reflecting reality. 
of course. 
In addition, our technologically advanced 
culture no longer admits of the naive and 
anachronistic views of science which we 
espouse every time we sing along to the 
time-honored Victory March. Only the 
Medievals thought that you could "shake 
down the thunder." and the notion of "wak­
ing up the echoes" goes all the way back to 
Homeric times. 
Furthermore, and perhaps most impor­
tantly, the fans do not "Cheer, cheer for Old 
Notre Dame," anymore (especially now that 
we have 20,000 extra fans who do little 
more than wear clothing which absorbs 
what "sing[ing of1 Her glory" the students 
can muster). And so here I present the offi­
cial, politically correct, scientifically accu­
rate, and behaviorally reflective version of 
our Victory March: 
"Sit, Sit at old Notre Dame, 
Drink the case of beer you snuck into the 
game. 
Raise the yawn of apathy, 
Hope that it doesn't rain, or else thunder 
will come down from the sky! 
Whether the odds be big or small, 
Old Notre Dame may win, or may lose, 
depending on their talent level and the abil­
ity of the coaches to utilize it effectively, 
While her fair-weather supporters are 
stumbling down into the flooded concourse 
to buy refreshments." 
There it is: perfectly in tune with reality. 
What's that? You say you don't like it? 
Come on, you stupid caveman! What's 
wrong with you, anyway? Are you so deeply 
attached to tradition that you refuse to face 
reality? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Graphics  
Dave Freddoso  Pete Cilella  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Production  
Sports  Dave Freddoso  
Anthony Bianco  Anne Marie Mattingly  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  John Daily  
Accent  
Nora Meany  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of che Associaced Press. All reproduccion righcs are reserved. 
~------~~------~-~-­
Wednesday, October 8, 1997

The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Participants consider Irish negotiations encouraging 
WASHINGTON that the United States would continue to press the IRA for 
U.S. officials told Ulster Unionist Party leader David a permanent end to violence, and would do all it could to Trimble on Tuesday that they hope move peace talks along. newly resumed all-party talks will "It is our objective in the pre­yield a peace agreement in Northern sent situation to try and develop Ireland. the talks as quickly as possible. 
Sandy Berger, President Clinton's We didn't see any advantage in national security adviser, said ell'orts delaying this situation," Trimble by Britain and Ireland to encourage said. the talks, coupled with the Irish Catholic and Protestant leaders Hepublican Army's decision to revive in Northern Ireland met Tuesday its cease-fire, have created a "his-in Belfast in their first formal talks toric and perhaps unique " prospect on a political settlement in their for peace. province, torn by decades of sec­
"Now we hope that the leaders of tarian violence. Northern Ireland, the leaders of the The talks were pocked by bomb various parties ... will seize this Agence France·Presse threats, and authorities defused a opportunity, because 1 am afraid it British secretary of state for Northern Ireland letter bomb sent to the office of will not come back again for a very Mo Mowlam and developmen! mml~ter Paul Ulster Unionist delegate Jeffrey long time," Berger said. Murphy are among negotiations partiCipants. Donaldson. Donaldson was with 
Trimble said he came away from the meeting confident Trimble in Washington at the time. 
Clinton, GOP make trade deal 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton reached a com-,..,.,.-,,......,'""""""""'--..., promise on Tuesday with House Republicans on legislation he needs to expand free trade beyond Mexico, but he was having difficulty lining up Democratic support. The deal, worked out in negotiations with House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Bill Archer. represented another step in 
~"---~-__..,.__......,..., the administration's uphill battle to gain approval of fast-track trade negotiating authority. Labor unions have mounted an aggressive lobbying campaign to kill the proposal, insisting that the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico has been a disaster that has cost thousands of U.S. jobs by encouraging American compa­nies to move factories to Mexico to take advantage of cheap labor and lax environmental regulations. The administration insisted on Tuesday that the compro­mise language worked out in an all-night bargaining ses­sion with GOP committee staffers would give Clinton the power he needs to ensure that any future trade deals do not expose American workers to unfair competition from developing nations. "We have reached an agreement that addresses key Democratic concerns and retains the president's flexibility to meet trade, labor, environmen­tal and health and safety goals as part of the trade agen­da," said Jay Ziegler, a spokesman for U.S. Trade 

Hospital corrects baby mix-up 
EL MONTE. Calif. 
Two boys born two weeks ago on the same day spent their first full day at home Tuesday with their parents -their real parents, that is. The babies were the victims of a hospital mix-up when nurse sent one infant home with the wrong parents one day after the babies were born Sept. 23. It wasn't until the morning after Benigna Sanchez was discharged that she noticed her identifica­tion bracelet didn't match the infant's hospital-issued bracelet. "Physically, they were very different. The hair, the little head," Mrs. Sanchez said. "But I trusted that it was my child. One trusts them (hospital officials.) We never imagined this would happen to us." She went back to the hospital, where both infants were kept fort­wo weeks of genetic testing. "The parents had the opportunity to spend time with both babies, and they decided amongst themselves who was who and spent time bonding with the child," said Brandon Edwards. spokesman for El Monte Community Hospital. "They were bonding with the correct children." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 8.

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high tenlperatures 
40s Bands separate high temperature zones for the day. 

>•;
' 
H L 
Tuesday ~82 61 Wednesday~ 86 64 Thursday ~ 85 61 
FRONTS:


Friday ~ 79 60 
.......--T"" ...A....A.. ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L [TI E;SJ


Saturday ~84 61 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
(,,..,,......J........,.,......./ ........ .
l ' 
VIII ASSOCIIJ/M/ Press 
Annapolis 79 58 Jacksonville 80 68 Philadelphia 70 
60 
Baton Rouge 84 64 Jefferson City 73 54 Seattle 65 60

@,~,~q~Q(f~d 
Charleston 68 59 Kansas City 90 75 Topeka 60 45 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Denver 62 48 Knoxville 76 56 Trumbell 73 
59 

Vta Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Harrisburg 59 50 Minneapolis 85 77 Washington 82 61 



San Antonio gunman kills two, self 
SAN ANTONIO 
A rille-toting gunman opened fire today at a paging 
company in a business park on the city's northeast side, 
killing two people and wounding a third before killing 
himself. One woman suffering from a gunshot wound to 
the head was in critical condition and undergoing 
surgery yest~lrday morning at Brooke Army Modica! 
Center, said Arcy Longoria, a hospital spokeswoman. 
The woman was found outside the building housing 
ProtoCall, a paging and answering service. "A lady came 
out holding her head and she was bleeding," said George 
Mendoza, an employee of Alternative Copier Service in 
the same strip of retail businesses. Police were notified 
about the shooting about 8:45 a.m. SWAT teams were 
assembled when police believed the gunman might be 
alive, police Sgt. Ernest Celaya said. When SWAT officers 
and emergency medical technicians entered the building 
an hour later, they found three bodies. including gun­
man Charles Lee White. dt~ad of a self-inflicted wound. 
Another woman was hiding undor her desk. She worked 
in the same building for another business, policP said. 
Celaya said White had fought Monday with his girlfriend 
who worked at ProtoCall. Police were called to her home 
on a domestic violence call. Celaya said. "The officer 
who responded to the call advised the woman against 
going to work this morning," Celaya said. "But obvious­
ly she didn't heed that advice and we had this incident of 
workplace violence." 


Fire destroys Goodwill toys 
WASHINGTON 
A fire at a Goodwill Industries warehouse Tuesday destroyed more than $1 million in donated toys collect­ed for children this Christmas. "All our toys arc gone except for one tractor-trailer load sitting at our plant," Goodwill President David Becker told TheWashington Post. "As you know, a lot of people depend on these toys for their families' Christmas." Fire department officials said the blaze was reported about 4:30 a.m. Tuesday and burned throughout the day. Several hun­dred thousand new and used toys. made mostly plastic, were stacked on pallets and wrapped in plastic,account­ing for an acrid odor several milesfrom the fire, officials said. An arson investigator told the Post and that initial reports from firefighters suggested that the blaze began at multiple points, suggesting that arson might be involved. Becker said Goodwill has some business interruption insurance but he was unsure how much of the inventory it would cover. Most of the toys were donated by local merchants. 


Wednesd~y, October 8, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• CONSTRUCTION BEAT 


Printer moves, NO utilities expand 
By DEREK BETCHER since 1989 and 1990, when we last expanded Associate News Editor our cooling plant," Smith said, referring to the recent construction of·DeBartolo Hall, the busi­
Last week contractors broke groun.d for a ness building, and the four new residence halls new $4.6 million facility which will house the on West Quad. Ave Maria Press Inc. and creal!) more space for As part of the new utility expansion, two the University's powPr plant in tlw process. 4,000-ton chillers and two cooling towers will 
"We're just getting started. Contractors just be installed in the space Ave Maria Press began site work." Notre Dame's director of vacates. The power plant project will cost an facilities engineering Mik!) Smith rnported. !)stimated $28 million and isn't f)Xpected to 
Established in 1S(l5 by Notre Damn's founder, take plaC!) until winter of 1999. Father Edward Sorin, Ave Mai'ia Pross is one of Before that expansion can take place, Ave the nation's oldest Catholic publishing houses. Maria Prnss will need to move into its"new 
Once the new building is eompleted, Ave building located across Douglas !load from the Maria Press will vacat!) its spacn adjacent to Moreau Seminary. That move is slated for next the University's pownr plant. That space will be summer. The new facility will be fully opera­then used to add equipment which will increase tional by August, and will include 17,000 Notre Dame's air conditioning capacity. square feet of office space and 33,000 square 
"It's really a two-stage project," Smith fnet for prnssns, bindery, shipping, and storage explained. . · areas. 
In a centraliznd proc!)SS, the plant chills "The press really does need ne\V space, and water and then pumps it across campus to var­now thny'll get it," Smith said. ious buildings wiH•rp it is then circulated The University awarded Ziolkowski through cooling units to produco air condition­Construction Inc. of South Bend the project's ing. The Main Building renovation, among general contract. The firm has worked on other other projects. nP!"PSsitatPs the inereased University !"onstruction sites, among thnm the capacity. Grace Ilall and Flanner Hall renovation pro­
"We've had a lot of <'Xpansion around campus jects. 


ND prof to speak at congress 
By JESSICA LOGAN in mathematics. always confused. Mathematics News Writer While tlw 10-day meeting is keeps you alive intellectually." opnn to all interested malh­A member of the Notre 
William Dwy!)r, th1• William Pmaticians, only a select group Dame faculty since 1980, .1. Hank l'roi"Pssor of is invited by an international Dwyer currently teaches an Mathematics at Notr!) Damn. panel of mathematicians to introductory topology eourse has recently bnon invited to address the congress. Dwyer for graduate students as well address thi) 
will speak about his rosearch as a calculus course for fresh­I 9 9 8 in topology, the mathematics men. International of shape. He chaired the University's Congress of Dwyer's n~search in tlw liPid mathematics department from Mathematics of topology has had a profound 19S4 to 1988 and spent 1992 in Berlin this PITect on CUITPnt thinking. at MIT as a visiting profnssor. August. lie has been invited to spnak Before coming to Notre 
The con­at many universities both in Dame, Dwyer was a member gress is a thn U.S. and abroad, including of the l"aeulty at Yale where he global meet-Dwyer Oxford, Yale, Princeton, Johns was the director of undergrad­ing of highly llopkins and MIT. uate studies. He received his specialized matiH'malicians "Heseareh. for me, is prob­bachelor's degree in math­held every four years. and has lnm solving," Dwyer explai1wd. ematics from Boston College in t h u s b e e n d u b b P d t lw "It is frustrating and endh)SS, 1969 and his doctorate from "Olympic Ganws" of rPsPar!"h and [the rescarchnr] is almost MIT in 1973. 

We cordially invite Engineering and Accounting/Finance students to attend our student body presentation tonight. 
DATE:  Wednesday, October 8, 1997  
TIME:  8:00-9:00 p.m.  
PLACE:  Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center  

USG Corporation has openings fer project engineers and accolmtants at several of our manufacturing plants USG's business units develop, manufacture, sell and distribute building materials worldwide. It operates 75 plants and sales offices in North Amenca, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. USG is the world's largest prod:..~cer of gypsum wallboard. For more information about USG and its products, visit our Web site at www.usgconM;om. 
. Please schedule your interview slot on October 13·'141h at Career and Placement Services. 
We wtll be back on campus the week of November 1oth for interviews. 

• CoNSTRucrloN BEAr 

The Observer/Joe Stark 

Trespassers have damaged the reseeded banks of Juday Creek. 




Officials: 'Stay off golf course' 
Special to The Observer 
A University of Notre Dame official cautions the campus and sur­rounding communities that only authorized personnel are permit­ted on the site of the University's new Warren Golf Course. 
"Although the size of the golf course precludes its being com­pletely fenced off, it nevertheless is a construction site and is not open to the public," said Mike Smith, director of facilities engineer­ing. 
"This restriction of access reflects the same concerns as at any construction site, foremost among them safety and integrity of the work being done." 
As an example, Smith said curiosity seekers walking the banks of the new stream courses constructed on the site have damaged grasses that are just taking hold along the banks. 
"We understand the interest that people have in this project, and we are as anxious as anyone to show off the work that's being done, not just from a golfing standpoint, but also with respect to Juday Creek," Smith said. "Once the course is completed and open to the public, we'll be delighted to have people tour it, just as was the case with the football stadium. 
"Now, however, is not that time, and we do hope everyone will cooperate in staying off the site." The course is scheduled to be ready for play in the spring of 1999. 

To nail the MCAT, knowing the sciences isn't enough, You've got to know the test. At Kaplan we'll teach you both. Our expert teachers have helped more students get into medical school than all other MCAT prep courses combined. So, go with the leader. Call today to enroll. 
t:l:iil,,,: • 

1·800-KAP-IEST 
www.kaplan.com 

There is no second opinion. 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 8, 1997 

Credit 
continued from page 1 
Siegfried junior Bill Connolly obtained his first credit card when he established a person­al account with his own money upon entering college. 
"It is definitely important to keep good credit so you can get loans and other credit cards in the future when you graduate," he said. 
Connolly pays his own credit card bill, and does so in full every month. But, because it is his own money in the end, he is very careful about what he spends. 
"I just use [the credit card] for necessities -food or when I'm in a jam at the airport. That's it. I'm pretty strict with myself about it." 
Natalie Huddleston, a Breen Phillips freshman, has two credit cards which she uses to buy clothes, compact discs and other things. Even though she does not personally pay her credit card bills, Huddleston says she only buys things she considers reasonable. 
"My parents pay the bills because I don't have my own money, but I only buy what I believe they would get me if they were here," she said. 
Emergencies seem to be the most popular reason students use their credit cards, accord­ing to the Visa survey, with almost 70 percent of students polled responding they charge only when they are in dire need. 
Students also usually reserve credit cards for big-ticket items, such as travel, gas and car repairs and clothes. 

Some students have avoided the need for credit cards, rely­ing only on cash and checks for methods of payment. 
"The convenience of credit cards causes you to make unplanned purchases," said Badin sophomore Jennie Tylec. 
"When you are forced to use only cash or checks you are forced to think about spending the money. With credit cards you just hand over the plastic." 
Ken Baier!, public relations manager of Key Bank at Notre Dame, offers suggestions to students who have their own credit cards: 
• Set a manageable limit each month and don't exceed it. 
"Anticipate what you will charge each month, and use 
self-discipline to stick to it," Baier! said. 
• Pay off your full balance every month. 
"If you pay only the mini­mum payment, soon your interest will grow and your bill will be enormous. You don't want to become a slave to your credit card," Baier! noted. 
• 
Don't use the credit card to purchase disposable items, like gas and food. Use cash. 

"The food will be gone by the time you get your bill. You don't want to be paying off a gallon of milk for six months," Baier! said. 

• 
Do not use your credit cards for purchases for friends or roommates. 

• 
Always put the card in a safe place, and cancel the card immediately if you realize it is missing. 




Seniors 
continued from page 1 

planned," said chairperson Jen Nelson. 
"Considering all of the pres­sures that can arise in one's senior year, prioritizing and staying on top of things has been the key to balancing the position of senior class presi­dent with my own necessities," Coury said. 
"Being committed to our class and myself is my goal for the rest of this year." 
With every event that passes, the members of the Class of 1998 find thPmselves one step closer to the actual moment when putting on their caps and gowns makes closure become a reality. 

Life 
continued from page 1 
the shortcomings of some legis­lation attempting to regulate near-death decisions. Five states, he said, have had voter initiatives concerning physician­assisted suicide: New York, California, Florida, Oregon, and Washington. He explained that these states' statutes confuse the difference between imminent death and incurability and offered diabetes as an example of an incurable disease that would clearly not fall in the cate­gory of imminent death. 
As a result of the ambiguity in the definitions of which condi­tions warrant assisted suicide, Poorman stressed that there is a slippery slope from imminently dying to involuntary euthanasia. This would apply most readily to handicapped people, who are incurable yet will not imminently die, he said. There is a fine dis­tinction between these two con­ditions, and opponents of assist­ed suicide fear that those distinc­tions will be blurred in the future, and that in turn could lead to killing for convenience, Poorman explained. 
Another criticism of the states' initiatives is that they do not require psychological review, waiting periods, or counseling sessions prior to assisted suicide. 
"This is suspect since anyone who would commit suicide would probably have significant psychological problems," Poorman said. 
In the California initiative, any physician could grant the per­mission to have the assisted sui­cide, and any physician could perform it, Poorman stated. 
"Conceivably, your dermatolo­gist could write the suicide per­mission and, in fact, carry it out," he said. 





Fr. Benedict Ashley, 0.P. 
Fr. Ashley is a priest of the Dominican Order, Chicago Province. He is a graduate of the University of Chicagd and the University of Notre Dame, and has doctorates in philosophy and political science, and the post-doctoral degree of Master of Sacred Theology. He was formerly President of the Aquinas Institute of Theology in St. Louis, Professor ofTheology at the Institute of Religion and Human Development in Houston, and Professor of Theology at the John Paul II Institute on Marriage and the Family in Washington, D.C. At present he is Emeritus Professor of Moral Theology at the Aquinas Institute and an Adjunct Professor at the Center for Bioethics, St. Louis University, St. Seminary. He serves as a consultant for the Committee on Doctrine of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, is a Senior 

Fellow of the Pope John Center of Medical Ethics, Boston, and has engaged in the Courage ministry to homosexual persons. Fr. Ashley's numerous publications include: Theologies of the Body: Humanist and Christian, Spiritual Direction in the Dominican Tradition, Living the Truth in Love: A Biblical Introduction to Moral Theology, and Justice in the Church: Gender and Participation. 
Fr. Ashley will speak on Catholic teaching on sexuality, the theology that supports this teaching, and why understanding this is necessary for understanding Church teaching on homosexuality. He hopes that his lecture will contribute to the campus debate regarding homosexuality. 
Thursday, October 9 DeBartolo Hall, Room 138• 4:30p.m. 

Maritain Center 


To further illustrate the ambi­guity of the issue, Poorman noted that the Supreme Court has ruled that there is no consti­tutional right to suicide, although this docs not prevent states from crafting their own assisted suicide legislation. 
Poorman also described the medical and religious ethics sur­rounding terminal patients and patients in a vegetative state. Pope John Paul II elaborated upon Catholic teaching on death situations in his encyclical of May 5, 1980. It explains that life . is a precious gift fi·om God, and suffering is therefore not a valid reason to commit suicide, Poorman said. In closing, he emphasize'cl that Christians should not fear death but should view it as a path to n(W8r-(mding life. 
Poorman's lecture was part of a three-part series titled "The Gosp8l of Life" and sponsored by Notre Dame Hight To Life. 

The Strake Foundation presents 


,., ____ .... ·-----­
··· -· -· ----·---·----·-----. ----·-------. -. ---­
------~--·---·--~=~--· 

~---~ --~~-------------~~~--·----~----------------­
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 

California court rules''* Voters: No to outlaw ter1n li1nits raises for 
Associated Press candidates to run. for office. The court instead said the inh 

Congress
SAN FRANCISCO tiativefailed to tell the.pu~lic A federal appeals coUrt how st~vere the limitation 

By MIKE FEINSILBER 
rejected California's legisla-was: a lifetime ban on seeking 

Associated Press Writer 
tive term limits law on the same office. Tuesday, taking away a pow-That the measure perma• 
WASHINGTON 
erful broom that swept scores nently barred a legislatl)~ 
Most Americans believe 
of longtime lawmakers out of from running for the office they should get cost-of-liv­

office. once that lawmaker reached 

ing pay increases every
Now, many incumbents who the limit was not stated in the 

year, but they sure don't 
were faced with packing up initiative or in the analysis feel that way aboutmembers are instead thinking about t~" sent to voters in the bal of Congress. In fact, some 

election. <;; pamphle~ It became clear ·... 

feel so strongly that they say 
One of the most famous ta:r-1991 ruling upholding the they'll vote against any law­

gets of the law -longtime) measure. 

maker who supports a raise. 
Democratic Assembly "The Constitution requires That expression of senti­
Speaker and current San usto invalidateal1~itt~:ttiv~if] 

ment comes in an 
Francisco Mayor Willie Brovm'' it fails.. to provide adeq'Uat~r Associated Press poll taken 

-said he feels vindicated notice to the voters that Jt 

just after Congress hesitant-
even though he has no plans would ~eve rely burden thf,l ly approved legislation mak­to return to the Legislature. people's fundamental rights;!~ ing possible a $3,072 pay "After all these years, I was said th~,,rnajori~y opinio 
increase for itself, the first
able to have a court say I was Judge Stephen Reinhardt. 

in five years.
right. Term limits are uncon~ "In matters this important; The bill squeaked throughstitutional," Brown said. the state simply must tell its House and Senate last week In a 2·1 ruling, the 9th U.S. citizens what they are voting 
and awaits President
Circuit Court of appeals on." < ,,,, 

Clinton's signature. Clintonstopped short of deciding Deborah La Fetra, a lawyer hasn't said What he Will do,
whether the 1990 term limits for sponsors of the 1990 ini• 

but a spokesman said the
law violated the rights of vot-tiative, called the ruling "a 

Associated Press Poll 
Public opposes pay raise for members of Congress 

Q• 
As you may know, Congress voted Q•Generally speaking, do you think 
• to increase the salary of House • people should get a raise every 
and Senate members by about year to keep up with the cost of $3,000 a year. Do you favor or living, or not? oppose the planned pay increase? 

Yes, people should get Favor 
Oppose cost-of-living 
Noraises

21% 69% 16% 81% ----­
No answer 
~ 
~~answ_e_r___r

10% 0 
The salary increase for •If your member of Congress voted 
• members of Congress is a cost-for the pay raise. would you be

Q Q
• of-living raise, and would be their • more likely or less likely to vote for first since 1993. Which of these him or her, or wouldn't it make any statements comes closest to difference to you: your opinion: 
Less likely 

Acost-of-living 
26% Acost-of-living raise is not raise is necessary necessary so because 
No

that not just members of 
difference rich people, Congress 
59%

but the best already get qualified people, generous pay, can serve in pensions and Congress: other benefits 
31% 64% SOURCE:APnationaltelephonepollof 1,003 No answer Note: Because of adults taken Oct. t-5 by ICR of Media, Pa. Margin S% ~c:r~~i~f·t~~;!,":!:r. ~~~~~piing error is plus or minus 3 percentage 
president thinks the ques-L_----------------------------------------------------~
ers to support their chosen slap in the face to California 

tion is one for Congress to 
candidate. or the rights of voters. And when the question con­never be trusted to do the right 
decide. 
cerned congressional raises, thing.
The poll suggests possible 

without tying the increase to
trouble for legislators who sup­The close roll call votes in 
the cost of living, disapproval House and Senate paving the
ported the increase for them­


was even higher -69 percent. way for the cost-of-living
selves. Fully 26 percent of those questioned said they Approval came from under 21 increase to take effect suggest percent while the rest offered that members of Congress
would be less likely to vote to


Jonathan Marlis 

re-elect a member of Congress no opinion. were~ keenly aware of public 
The poll was conducted

who had voted for the pay sentiment on that issue. raise. About 58 percent said it among a random sample of In the Senate, a key vote was dido 't make any difference. 1,003 adults between last 55-45 for the bill. Among 30 
Wednesday and Sunday by ICR
On the other hand, the gen­senators who must face the eral proposition that people's of Media, Pa. Results have a voters at the polls next year, pay should go up to keep pace~ margin of sampling error of only 11 approved and 19 voted 
with the cost of living was plus or minus 3 percentage no. In the House, final passage points.
approved by better than 80 came by a narrow 220-207 
percent. These findings follow a vote.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9 But better than 63 percent report from the Census Bureau In fact, Congress did not even that the typical American
said a cost-of-living increase take a direct vote on whether7:30P.M. for lawmakers is unnecessary household had income of members should get a raise. 
because members of Congress $35,492 last year-less than a The votes were on a bill appro­LIBRARY LOUNGE get generous pay. pensions and third the $133,600 earned by priating $26 billion for the 
other benefits. senators and representatives. Treasury Department and sev­
Sponsorwll~l' tht .\'otrt' Dame Holom11st Projn'! 

Less than a third of those eral other agencies. In the and the Reillr Ce!l!erfor Srientt', 'J'edwolop_y and Values polled agreed with a common past, the bill included a section 
argument in favor of raising denying a pay raise; this time it 
congressional pay to keep up did not. with the cost of living -that The Associated Press survey 
unless the rewards are kept found that people whose up, only rich people, not neces­household income exceeds sarily the best qualified, will $40,000 a year were more 
Extend Your Reach 

Campus Talk 

run for election. sympathetic toward congres­
The replies also show that sional pay increases than those large portions of the public still with incomes under $25,000. hold Congress in low regard. Men were slightly more sym­
International Rates 

Algeria 1.00 Israel 0.74 Switzerland 0.46 
While only 1 percent said pathetic than women, too, with 

Andorra 0.46 Italy 0.60 Taiwan 0.60 
Congress could almost always nearly 25 percent of men 
Tajikistan 1.00
Argentina 0.77 Jamaica 0.69 

be trusted to do the right thing, approving congressional 
Armenia 1.04 Japan 0.55 Thailand 0.82 
19 percent said the opposite, increases and fewer than 18 
Australia 0.58 Kazakhstan 

that Congress could almost percent of women approving.
Austria 0.61 Korea Bahamas 0.46 Kyrgyzstan Belarus 1.04 Lebanon Belgium 0.62 Liechtenstein Bermuda 0.54 Luxembourg 
Professor Ludger 
Brazil 0.71 Mexico-! Canada 0.17 Mexico-2 


Honnefelder

China 1.!2 Mexico-3 Colombia 0.78 Mexico-4 
Profwor of Philo5ophy at the Faculty of Costa Rica 0.70 Mexico-5 
Philo5ophy of the Univmity of Bonn and 
Czech Republic 0.85 Mexico-6 
Director ofthe Philo5ophi5che5 Seminar B, and 
Denmark 0.45 Mexlco-7 
member of the Steering Committee on Bioethic5
Dominican Republic 0.70 Mexico-8 
of the Council ofEurope 5ince 1991
Egypt 1.02 Monaco El Salvador 0.89 Nakhodka Ethiopia 1.25 Netherlands Finland 0.55 New Zealand France 0.46 Nigeria 
ntion of the Council
Georgia 1.04 Norway Germany 0.46 Pakistan 1.35 
e on Human Rights
Ghana 1.01 Panalna 0.74 

.,~dt .,..,,.
Greece 0.75 Philippines 0.80 Biomedicine
R~tes apply 24 hours per day
Guam 0.74 Poland 0.75 

No monthly fee, no minimum
Guatemala 0.89 Portugal 0.73 

30 initial/6second increments
Haiti 0.84 Romania l.J5 Hong Kong 0.58 Russia 1.00 10% discount on all weekend Hungary 0.74 Saudi Arabia 0.92 calls from discounted area 
Iceland 0.71 Singapore 0.55 code India 0.85 South Africa 0.74 $2.00 surcharge applied to all Indonesia ll.94 Spain 0.67 
calls using 1.800.860.8900 
Iran 1.18 Sri Lanka 1.45 

outside discount calling area 
Ireland 0.61 Sweden 0.44 For more information, contact Professor M. Cathleen lG:Ivtny at 
631-7844.



For more information call Dan Swain 286.-6028 • swaind@lci.com 
--------------~-----~~~ ~---------~ 
page 6 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Wednesday, October 8, 1997 
~~---------------------------------------------­




GOP fires on Clinton, Reno Cold War spies face 
Associated Press tion Ickes. the White House aide to Clinton's and vice president who urged fund-raising phone Gore's fund raising calls in the 

tough trial this week 

WASHINGTON calls be made from the White White House. 
Fuming over delays in produc­House, Thompson declared he "It simply is not illegal or Associated Press War cleanup. The diary con­ing evidence, the Senate's chief did not expect Clinton or Gore untoward for a president or vice tained indications that three fund-raising investigator would be prosecuted for those president to grant access to sup­WASHINGTON Americans-a man who served accused President Clinton on telephone solicitations. porters, no more than it is ille­The clues that a bookish trio as a recruiter, his wife and 
Tuesday of "trying to run out or academies and analysts might 
"Nobody's going to be prose­gal for a senator or other mem­another man working for the the clock" on the investigation. cuted on these phone calls ber of Congress to grant acenss be spies emerged gradually. Army --were continuing to 
A former presidential deputy where someone was sitting or to their supporters," he said. In June 1989, a State work with their former East 
unabashedly defended using the standing when phone calls were In fact, Ickes said, the Department employee seeking German intelligence handler White House to raise made, everybody knows that," "Clinton White House merely the highest security clearance even after East Germany ceased Democratic money. the senator said. acknowledged he had given six to exist.
followed a well established 
"We played by the rules," for­Ickes, the architect of Republican precedent" in using to 10 State Department cables Three other East G!Hman mer White House deputy chief Clinton's 1996 fund-raising White House events to reward stamped "secret" in 1981 to a intelligence officers arrested at of staff Harold Ickes told sena­
and encourage donors. man he identified as "Jim the end of the Cold War tors. capping a day of dramatic He even cited "no less an Clarke." described the Americans to political combat in the Senate authority" than comedian Jay The two men had socialized invnstigators by their code hearing room. Leno to argue that it would be together occasionally and names, "Jack" (Clark), "Ken" 
And, while Republican sena­impractical to expect Clinton to smoked marijuana, and the and "Tina," (Stand and tors there lashed at the White leave the White House to make employee said he thought he Squillacote). "When the wall House for failing to turn over was merely helping a struggling came down I said there had to
fund-raising calls -solicitations videotapes of controversial that Ickes remembers but the Russian language expert with be a lot of people in the West fund-raising events until last president does not. his research. who were very uncomfortable," weekend, the Justice It would take eight years for
"What's he supposed to do, go former CIA Director Hobert 
the FBI to expand that snippet

Department asked White House to the pay phone at the Seven­Gates said. 
lawyer Lanny Breuer to appear a senator or mem­of information into the massive
Eleven'?" Ickes said, quoting a Indeed, as the FBI's 200-page before a federal grand jury ber of Congress to grant Leno monologue. espionage case leveled this affidavit states, at some point Wednesday to explain the delay Meanwhile, a House panel, week against James Clark, a investigators gained access to of several months. access to their support­divided along party lines sub­former civilian analyst with the documents from the files of the 
Sen. Fred Thompson, R-Tenn., ers.' poenaed four Teamsters offi­Army; Theresa Squillacote, a defunct East German HVA, the chairman of the Senate Pentagon attorney; and her hus­
cials Tuesday, compelling them branch of the communist
Harold Ickes 
Governmental Affairs to testify about union president band, Kurt Stand. nation's security apparatus
White House Deputy Chief ofStaff
Committee that is investigating Hon Carey's tainted re-election The three, all former campus responsible for foreign intelli­fund-raising abuses, cited the campaign. leftists who met in the 1970s at gence. The documents identified videotapes as he accused the the University of Wisconsin, are
efforts, waited most of the day The four were expected to tes­three Americans by their code White House of "a clear pattern to testify as senators expressed tify about the usc of union orga­in an Alexandria, Va., federal names, but also supplied of delay, foot-dragging, conceal­their outrage and argued with nizers to do political work for lockup awaiting a preliminary detailed biographical informa­ing." each other at length, then took a Carey's campaign and about hearing Thursday on charges tion such as places and dates of 
that could put them behind bars

Thompson urged Clinton to long recess for votes on the payments from the Teamsters birth. "step up to the plate" and force Senate floor on campaign political action committee to for life. "They always remembered the help of his supporters who finance legislation. Democrats. One by one, other clues fol­with German precision to radio have refused testimony and to When he finally got his oppor­Although Ickes was eased out lowed the first hint of trouble birthday greetings to their mole join the Republicans' push for tunity. the former deputy chief of his White House staff position from the State Department and congratulatory messages appointment of a special prose­of staff declared "I have no earlier this year, he defended all employee. when a son was born. So the cutor. regret" and flashed his trade­the Clinton-Gore fund raising as In March 1992, Western intelligence agency in Bonn 
"People leave the country. authorities obtained a Casio
mark acerbic wit. He made a legal and maintained the hear­(West Germany) monitored documents are destroyed. point-by-point defense of the ings were designed "to tarnish Digital Diary from Karl Heinz this," said David Wise, author of defenses are gotten together on Democrats' much maligned the Democratic Party in general, Michalek, a former East a book on the Aldrich Ames spy and evidence gets cold," he said. fund-raising efforts, from cof­and President Clinton, and more German intelligence officer case, of the East German intelli­
Even as he prepared to ques-fees and sleepovers for donors pointedly, vice president Gore." arrested in Germany's post-Cold gence service. 



Workshop Schedule 
Rooms & Times  Workshop Title  Presenter  
Room 210  
!1:00AM & 2:00PM  "Computer AdaAtive Testin~for GM T, G RE, a per/ Sencil  Denise Roland Kaplan Educational Services  
Testinf for L AT, MC.!\. , etc."  
!2:00PM  "Op~ortunities in the eace Corps 50 Ways to Be Competitive"  Brian Anderson Peace Corps  
Room 212  
11 :OOAM & 2:00PM  "Careers in Banking"  Bill Harlan, Jr.  
First Chicago/NED  
Bank  
1:00PM & 3:00PM  "What is Consulting?"  Karen Fields  
CSC Consulting  
Room 214  
11 :OOAM & 2:00PM  "Career  Michael Jackson  
DeveloKments throug Internships"  In Roads-Chicago  
1:00PM & 3:00PM  "Careers in Retail Management"  Van Dam Sears Roebuck &  
Company  

Arts 8: Letters Career Day Thursday, October 9, 1997 11AM to 4PM Center for Continuing Education 
All colleges welcome 
Sponsored by: Career 8: Placement Services, University of Notre Dame 


------------~------~ ~-~--~------------~ ----.----~~ ~-~ 
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS 


Case will affect politics on TV 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The future of political debates on most public broad­cast stations nationwide may be at stake as the Supreme Court scrutinizes a state­owned Arkansas television network's decision to exclude one candidate. 
After hearing arguments today, the justices must decide whether the network violated the free-speech rights of a bal­lot-qualified but fringe candi­date who was not invited to a televised debate it sponsored. 
A federal appeals court ruled against the Arkansas network, a decision the jus­tices were told casts "a chill on state-related public broad­casters' editorial freedom." 
The highest court's eventual ruling, expected by July, could have a broad impact even though it will affect only state­owned -not privately owned -broadcast stations. 
About two-thirds of all non­commercial, educational sta­tions are licensed to state and local governments or their agencies. 
The high stakes are ref1ected by the volume of unsolicited advice the court has received. 
Hoss Perot's campaign com­mittee and the American Civil Liberties Union are among those urging the justices to rule that state sponsorship of a political debate creates a public forum from which bal­lot-qualified candidates cannot be excluded. 
The Clinton administration, 20 states and the two major 
political parties' Commission on Presidential Debates are among those urging the jus­tices to rule that state employ­ees have the discretion to pick and choose which candidates should participate. 
The dispute arose when edi­tors of the Arkansas Educational Television Network (AETN) decided in 1992 that independent con­gressional candidate Ralph Forbes' participation "would detract from the ...usefulness " of a debate to be carried on its five public TV station.s. 

against candidates with unpopular or untradtion­al views or those with fewer resources." 
Lawyersfor "Perot '96" 
Only the Republican and Democratic candidates were invited. 
Forbes, a former member of the American Nazi Party who now refers to himself as a Christian supremacist, sued. 
A federal judge threw out his case, but the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reinstated it. The appeals court treated the televised debate as a limited public forum presumably open to all qualified candidates. 
AETN's editors could exclude such a candidate only for a compelling reason -one least intrusive on that candi­date's free-speech rights, the appeals court ruled in sending the r,ase back to the trial judge to determine what monetary damages Forbes should col­lect. 
In a friend-of-the-court brief, lawyers for the Commission on Presidential Debates said the 8th Circuit court's ruling "runs an unac­ceptable risk of resulting in crowded and cacophonous debates that ... would inhibit meaningful debates rather than promote them." 
A similar brief filed by a coalition of states argued: "Where government utilizes outside speakers to help pre­sent a public broadcast pro­gram, it is itself speaking and not opening a forum." 
The states siding with AETN are Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Vermont and Wyoming. 
Lawyers for Perot '96 urged the justices to uphold the appeals court ruling. 

"To exclude candidates on the basis of viability is, by defi­nition, to discriminate against candidates with unpopular or untraditional views or those with fewer resources," they said. "The fact that AETN bore no malice or hostility toward Forbes is irrelevant." 
page? 
···:~:;:::T .:.;.q{;:;: :· -:>)' ~.>, 
"v•,•vu..,. Andrew Zimbalist. 
.:pta Cupa specialist at Smith 
jt&college in Massachusetts. 
· :tha:tts their way of saying they don't have anything new: 'We can do better if people workharder,'" kih MV 
Zimbalist also said inequali­created by Cuba~.s limited nomic reforms have led to "a v()latHe and exf!losive 
social situation.'' .. .... The . congress, held roughly ~very five years since 1975, should see the president's mosfimportant speech in months. Castro recently has shu1Uled the spotlight, making 
only one fuajor appearance 
in an 
Notre Dame Faculty and Staff 

Thursday, October 9, 1997 

Stepan Center -7 to 7:40 a.m. Food Services Support Facility Breakroom-10:45 to 11 a.m. Stepan Center-12:10 to 12:50 p.m. Food Services Support Facility Breakroom-9 to 9:15p.m. Stepan Center-2 to 2:40p.m. Stepan Center-5:10 to 5:50p.m. 
Free Food and Refreshments and Prize Drawings 
---~ .,~-~~ -------~-~ ----------------~-------~~~ ----··~--·--~ --~----------... 
.:__p__.::ag=-e_s_______________.-:T=--::he Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Wednesday, October 8, 1997 

nent Republican tax-code reformers are taking a national "Scrap the Code" tour. 
Newt Gingrich is promising legislation in 1998 to "abolish the IRS as we know it." And GOP plans for "fairer, flatter" taxes aresproutingeverywhere. 
Suddenly, tax overhaul has become the party's hottest politi­cal issue. 
"The current tax code will be road kill before you know it, "predicts House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas. 
Long an advocate of the kind of"flat tax" popularized by pub­lisher Steve Forbes in 1996, Armey is hitting the road next week with Rep. Billy Tauzin, R· 
La., to try to get a national debate going on a new tax sys· tern. 
"I intend to push every button. to get a new tax code on the floor as quickly as I can," Armey said. 
"The issue is more keen now than ever before," said Forbes, keeping up his own drumbeat for a flat tax. "It confirms what the public always suspected, even though Washington hasn't 
gotten the word yet," the New 
GQP goes onto r~tO'"' ftiht-COj.lUSi~t!}XeS ·~ 
·"-J~'~i;'~;*p'iibtr~h~~·ii~~~<f'~l· an 

WASHtNGTON!ir in~tW:;ion~i'n~pti})n~cilisliave Trying to harnessthesurge in .gotten the word, th(;)if leaders anti-IRS sentiment, two promF' insist. · ·· 
Congressional p.earings into abuses by the Int~rnal Revenue Service touched a national nerve, generating more public interest in just a few days than months of hearings into cam­paign-finance irregularities. 
Republicans are trying to channel that momentum into support for drastic changes in the system. In the five-city tax tour, sponsored by the conserva­tive Citizens for a Sound Eeonomy, Armey and Tauzin will debate the merits of a flat tax versus a national sales tax. 
Armey favors a 17-pereent flat tax, while Tauzin wants a 15 percent sales tax, Both plans provide exemptions for poorer Americans. i 
They will be in Columbus, Ohio, and Cincinnati on Oct. 10~ Bakersfield, Calif., oct. l; Atlanta, Oct. 17:and Chicago, Oct. 18. 
"We've gota very broad-based consensus across the country that we don't like the tax code,~ Armey said. 
A.tmey, aboard the flato·tax train since 1994, credits Forbes with bringing serious national attention to the concept. 



Senate ponders NATO expansion 
.:.=:Asso=cia.:::::::_ted~rres:::._s-wA-sJ-IIN-G'I-·oN 
Senators probed the planned 

~~~~w:~~p~ix~:~si~~d 0 ~uNz~Te~ 
ment Tuesday. Membr,rs of the 
Foreign Helations Committee reserved judgment, though the chairman, Jesse Helms, said all Americans should welcome thr, Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland into the alliance. 
"We must embrace these democracies, guide them an show them away from their tragic histories of ethnic clivi­sion and war," Helms said at a hearing that kicked off consid­eration of NATO's push cast-ward. 
The Scnate must consent by at least a two-thirds vote for NATO to take in the three for­mer allies of the Soviet Union and commit the Unitr,d States to defr,nd them if they are attaeked. 
The cost to the Unitr,d States is estimated in a Pentagon-sponsored study at about $150 million to $200 million a year over 10 years, a figure most analysts consider unrealistical­ly low. Helms, H-N.C., sought assurances from Secrr,tary of State Madeleine Albright, the opening witness, that the 15 allies now in NATO "are willing to fulfill their end of the bar­
gain." Albright said she would insist 
on that. She also told the eom­mittee that Russia, at least hypothetically, could be invited to join the alliance that was formed during the Cold War to deter Soviet troops from mov­ing westward. 
"If they meet the criteria they would be welcome," Albright said. "Hussia is not the old Soviet Union. Russia is a differ­ent place than we ever expect­ed it would be." 
llowcver, Albright said Moseow had noither expmssed an intemst in joining NATO nor n~lented in it~ opposition to the alliance's growth. The two­hour he'aring was the fii·st round in what is apt to bn a elose contest. A Senate vote is not expectnd until sometimn next year, after the North Atlantic Council formalizes acceptance of the three former Soviet allins at its winter meet­ing in Brussels, Bnlgium, in December. 
The parliaments of the 15 allies also must approve. 
The notion of Hussia joining moved Sen. John W. Warner, H-Va., who is not a committee member, to assert that "if Russia wnre admitted that would be the end of NATO." 
Warner said he was a "firm skeptic" of expansion. And he told Albright it "will begin to breed dissension" between countries being admitted and others that are left out. 
Despite his endorsement of expansion, Helms was dubious 

about the financing. He called a 
new NATO-Russia council, 
formed to ease Russia's eon­
cerns about expansion, "ill­
eonsidered." 
"I confess a fear that the U.S. 
overture to Hussia may already 
have gone too far." Helms sairi 
of the arrangement launched 
last month that gives Hussia 
access to some NATO discus­
sions. 
Heealling what he dr,scribed 
as "thn betrayal of Yalta," the 
decision by Allied leaders in 
World War II that the Heel 
Army should liberate Eastern 
Europe, lw quostioned Hussia's 
commitment to peaen and 
democracy. 
On paying for oxpansion, llelms criticized the allies for foot-dragging. "Too many 'oxpect the American taxpayers 
to pay the bills," he said. 
Again, Albright offered assur­
anees to the chairman. She 
said Hussia had not been grant­
ed a decision-making role and 
would have "no opportunity to 
dilutn, dPlay or block NATO 
decisions." 
Holms narlier had written 
Albright he was prepared to 
support NATO's nxpansions if 
his concerns on several fronts 
were met. Other members of 
the committee did not tip off 
how they may vote. Several 
seemed puzzled by NATO's 
purposes eight years after the 
disintegration of tho Soviet 
Union. 

When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-together, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. 
WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON OCTOBER 10, 1997. CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW. 



Raytheon

Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. EXPECT GREAT THINGS 
---..._..---:;_,. 
--~~--~-...--~-~------~~~ -------~ 

Wednesaday, October 8, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
page 9 
• GAZA STRIP 

Middle East leaders talk peace 



'moral,failures'

Associated Press The radio said the two lead­Israel, and other issues. ers discussed issues that will Ross also met separatelyGAZA STRIP be _negotiated in high-level Tuesday afternoon with 
reports from field workers Palestinian leader Yasser 
about•mass deportations and Arafat and Israeli Prime talks scheduled for Netanyahu and Arafat. 
killings of Jews, rulings by the 

Washington next week -"I am pleased with the dis­Minister Benjamin Netanyahu such as Israel's demands for a cussions we've had," he said 
organization and its governing held face-to-face talks early 
60,000 pages of World War IJ. bodies; orders to field workers, Wednesday for the first time Islamic militants and the Palestinian crackdown on afterward, adding he hoped 
eradocu~ents tolsrael on and correspondence with Nazi in eight 
future of the peace process. forward on the broader ques­
the sides would soon "move 
Tuesday/and. a top official Germany and the allied govern­months, ase­
ackngwledged,._the_·.-organiza­ments.

Ross participated in part of tions that will allow us to put n i o r the meeting, but much of it the whole process back on 
tion'$' "moral failure" in Among the facts they reveal keepipg-s~J~nt while ~he Nazis is that the Red Cross discount­

Palestinian was one-on-one, the radio track." 
ol'!icial said. said. 

niurderecLS:iX million Jews, ed reports of a mass murder of The 2 l/2-The two leaders last met on talks, the region has been 
Since the breakdown in 
"Very dearly, the IGRC's Polish Jewish prisoners that hour summit, 
activitieswitll.regard to the took place at Lublin, Poland, in arranged late 
February 9, just after beset by crises, including 
Holoc~ust ar7 sensed.__ as a 1940, a Yad Vashem statement Netanyahu withdrew Israeli three bombings that killed 30 

moral fa~lure;r said George

Tuesday by troops from Hebron -and a people in Jerusalem and Tel said. 
U.S. envoy Willemin~'director of archives The ICRC told the World
month before Israel Aviv. 
-for _-· th(i •Geneva"hased

Dennis Ross. sparked the current crisis by The Palestinians have suf­Jewish Congress in August 
could signal beginning construction on a fered a prolonged and eco­International Committee of the 1940 that "following a thor­a thaw in the crisis that has Red<Jtoss; ough investigation by the
new Jewish neighborhood in nomically crippling Israeli 
brought the peace process to the disputed part of blockade. "'the ICRC admits -yes -German Red Cross representa­the brink of total breakdown. Jerusalem. thatJ;t;.h!l;s kept silent with•. tive," the Red Cross had con­
The resumption of talks ­
C~mvoys ol' limousines carry­regar~to. the Holoca~st, and l
Israeli media reports said agreed on at meetings cluded the reports were 
ing the leaders left the Erez Netanyahu was interested in between Israeli and woul~. s at this thEI Mart unfounded. Crossing on the lsrael-Gaza holding the summit, perhaps Palestinian officials at the ofthem ilure, ___ added. The release of the documents border. whnre the meeting Wmemii:l: spq}(e at a modest
to deflect attention away from United Nations last week -raises anew the question of was held. around 5 a.m. local the spiraling scandal over the had been overshadowed by the ceremony at YadW·Vashem, whether the Red Cross should time. botched Mossad assassination scandal over the failed assas­IsraeJ!s H~locaust ..m.emorial have made public what it knew 
institute, which received the

The two men did not speak attempt against a Hamas sination attempt in Jordan on about the Holocaust and spo­to reporters. who hadbeen leader in Jordan. Barnas leader Khalid Mashaal. 
~( __ ·• .··--.• < ....... ken out &gainst it. k~~pt outside the corn pound. Earlier Tuesday, Israeli and To get back two captured Cross hasinthe past Red Cross officials have said 
zedfor__._ "allpossible

Thc meeting was held under Palestinian negotiators Mossad agents and defuse a that if they had done so, the an unusual cloak of secrecy. resumed talks on implement­crisis with Jordan, Israel om . . s and mistakf)smade" Nazis would have retaliated by Only after the meeting had ing the tattered Israel-PLO released the founder of durili~. t~e. wa~ _Y~ll,rs\ but stopping the organiza.tion ·from begun did a Palestinian of'fi­accords in Jerusalem. Hamas, Sheik Ahmed Wille.m.in'sstatementwas the-helping allied prisoners of war. cial. who refused to be identi­1110st ex.p _ ackno"':ledgqtent There were fears that "the
They discussed civilian Yassin, and 20 other prison­
fi<~d. confirm that the talks issues including the establish­ers. Israel now fears the pris­by a: Red _--.. _ ... cial that the work we were doing, probably were taking place. ment of roadlinks between the oner releases will undermine organi1;atiop copld and s~.2uld quite well, with respect to the Israel Hadio said that Arafat have done .more: --POWs would have been jeopar­
West Bank and Gaza -an its demands that Arafat do askf>d Netanyahu for a freeze idea put off for years because more to rein in Hamas. The _ docurlient~. _ pho­dized by being too outspoken 
in settlement building and for togr eq (.:1113(1 reels ofmicro­about the Nazis, with dire con­
of Israel's security concerns. Asked Tuesday if the trou­
a speeding up of Israel's fihn, _ er every aspect of the
Negotiators also are to meet bles with Jordan were affect­sequences for those we were 
promised pullouts from West Red Crpss'~"work relating-to • · helping, without helping those
this week on opening ing the renewed peace talks,
Bank land. the Jews, hostages 
and political we were not helping," ICRC
Palestinian air and seaports in Israeli Foreign Minister David 
dt:)tai:lle

The radio did not give the Gaza Strip, the release of Levy said. "It will affect the spokesman Kim Gordon-Bates 
· The·

Netanyahu's responsr-. Palestinian prisoners held by overall situation, for sure." told The Associated Press. 



-~~-------~ . ~ 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, October 8, 1997 
• WRONG SmE UP 
John Deere and a Camel Is All You Need 
• Guon Of THE DAY 
"Yellow cat, black cat, as long as it catches mice, it is a good cat." -Deng Xiaoping 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DA~IE 0HICF: P.O. !:\ox Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY\ 0HICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame. IN 465'56 (21 9) 284-'iY>S 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor·in-Chicf 
Brad Prenderg~tsr • 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Hci:-.lt:J Tom Rol.md 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cich.1lski News Editor..... . ... H~arher Cock-. Advertising Manager... . . .............. It'd Pt'ters Viewpoint Editor.. . .... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager... . ......Jennifer Brl'slow Sports Editor...... . ....................... Mike Day rroduction Manager..... .............Mark Dt:Boy Accent Editor .......................... Joe}' CrawfOrd Sysrems Manager ...................Mi<.:hat.:l Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Comroller. .............................. KI"ie Carlin Photo Editor .... . ....... K.nie Kroent'r 
The Observer is rhe independt"nt newspaper published by rhc srudem:. of the Uniwrsiry of Nurn: Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary\ College. h does nor necessarily rdlccr rhe poli~.:ic~ of rhc aJmini!ltrarion or~:irher insrirurion. The news is repom:J ;Js .Kcurardy and objecti\'dy as possible. Unsigned edirori.ds n:prc..·senr rhe opinion of rhe nujoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chic{ Man~1ging Edirur, A ...... isrant Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror. Sports Editor, Accem Ediror. Sainr Mary's Ediror. Phow Ediror, ;lnd Assn~.:iare News Editor. Conunemaries. lener)l. and Inside Column~ presenr rhe view:-. of rhe aurhor!\, ;md nm neces­sarily chose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all member:-. ofrhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communicy and ro ;t!l reader~. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrough lencr~ i~ t:lll.\Uir:Jgcd. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief Cdl-4'542 Business Office 1di-S.ll3 Managing Edimr 631-4541 Adverrising 6.\1-6900/8840 News/Photo 6.11-'5323 Svsrems 631-88.l9 Sporrs 631-454.> l)ftice Manager (>.\1-7471 Accem/Sainr Mary's 631-4 540 Fax 6.11-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoim 6.11-)30.1 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewp(1int.l (!.i'nd.edu General Information 6.>1-7471 Ad E-Mail . ob!>crver@darwin.cc .nd. edu 




VIDEO 
Just before I Ic~ft to come back to Notre Dame this fall. my father said to me, "Margaret. don't forget the library. It is the storehouse of all knowledge." My roommate told me her father told her the same thing. 
Margaret Shaheen 

Fathers must all think alike. Up until last Saturday, I thought they were right. but then I learned differently. 
Saturday morning. I rolled out of bed at about 12, washed a couple aspirin down with some Gatorade. wrapped a blanket around my shoulders, flippml on the TV and collapsed on the couch ­exhausted. 
Spent too much time at the library Friday night. On the television. a self­proclaimed speed reader, named coinci­dentally, "Speedy;" was furiously flip­ping through the pages or a new biogra­phy of Tiger Woods. Suddenly, he dosed the book, muttered a "hrrumph" and proudly announced to me, and presum­ably millions or other viewers, that he had just read the first three chapters of the biography in less than a minute. lie understood that many viewers, including me, might be skeptical, so to prove that he really did read and understand the book, "Speedy" brought out an inter­rogator decked out in an "NYI'D Blue" outfit to ask him a series of probing questions. The answers to these ques­tions could only be found in the first three chapters of the Tiger Woods biog­raphy. Amazingly, "Speedy" answered all the questions correctly without even a moment's hesitation. The interrogator exclaimed in amaz<~ment. as unseen mil­lions, or at least all those who were not watching bass lishing on ESPN, oohed and ahhed. .J usl then, not by chance, lit­tle Visa. Masterl'ard and Arnnriean Express symbols and a 17800 number slowly-ever so slowly-came across the screen -we were not speed readers yet! "Pay only $29.95 !'or 10 months and ... " Speaking of bass lishing, I was hooked. But morn was to come. 
Still too nxhausted to move, I lay on the couch and was about to doze off­speed reading has one serious draw­back. it is exhausting-when I dropped the t.v. llipper. By itself. the telovision llipped to channel 46. It must have been fate. There on channel 46 was a man named Steve, who is the epitome of' sue­cess and is living proof' that success is actually quite easy to achieve. It is all in how you go after it. 
Steve is easy to spot. You can't miss him. lie's the man with one hand raised to the Lord and the other hand steering his John Deere tractor through a herd of live camels. That's right, camels! It doesn't take more than a minute to real­ize that this televangelist isn't quite right in the head. Evon tlw camels seem to doubt Stnvn as he leaps from his tractor and races over to a hand-crafted, parti­cle board altar screaming, "God is fixin' to bring you back double everything Satan has stolnn !'rom you! Go to the phonn right now and say, 'Lay my name on the altar!'" Just as you are about to turn the television ofT. Steve yells. "Lay the flipper down. !'or goodness sake! I want you to get this! Stay very close to that television set! Don't be distracted because we're lixin' to have a mirade!" 
Aftnr a statmnent like that there's no lurr)ing back; Steve has you hooked like the poor bass on ESPN. What kind of' miracle is Stcwe talking about'? Is the Lord going to cure the blind right there on live television? Is Steve going to be attacked by an irate camel? Will he lose his toupee while running to the altar? Or worse, is he wearing a garter bell under his pants? Aller Steve single-handedly played out a scene 

between God, 
Satan and Job, 
preached endlessly 
about his "spirit 
man," and insanely 
yellod "somebody 
press the clap but­
ton." he made his 
miracle. A 1-SOO 
numbor slowly­
haven't we been 
here before ­
crept across the 
screen. Viewers 
!'rom all across the 
country put down 
their fishing poles. 
called Steve's 1­
800 number, 
"fought the busy 
signal," asked to 
have their names 
written on the par­,tide board and. 
above all, gave 
Steve thousands 
and thousands of 
dollars. 
Steve is a suc­
cess even though I 
doubt hn has ev<~r 
read the Bible and 
the best line he can 
come up with is 
"Only Satan can 
make you stop giv­ing to telethons." How many hours in the library eould it have taken to come up with that? Clearly, we are only hurl­ing our futures by spending long hours in the library. Television-that is the answer. With just a few more hours of' quality television viewing, I'll be ready to make my mark on the business world. 
I couldn't wait to tell my roommate what l had learned, but she was not here. She was-you guessed it-at the library. When she got back, I shouted. "Eureka! I've found it! We don't need to study or spend long hours in the library. 

All we need to do is pay $29.95 every month for 10 months, take Speedy's speed reading course and learn to drive a John Deere tractor. Thank God for television!" 
Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore !lrts and Letters major at Notre Dame. She can be reached by e-mail at Margaret.L.Shaheen.3@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• DOONESBURV 
W&U, B.D., H~~ YOUR CONTRACT. tOOKIT01/~ 5/GN17; oCTITEtt/CK 7lJ 
US, ANO /i/&'R£ IN 8U51Nt;93l 
\ 

(.(£aAo/7"~flZTYOU TO tO/tV Tfl£F!R!iTTIM£a;T,OFcal~£. !!i.JTA5 YOUR CONTI?ACT5UG­
610T~ !iJ& /){} !3XffCTYO{J TO 
CI('WINlll£JOB OL€R TIME! 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

BUT17"5.. .ITS 
IPIPN7 SIX &AM£5. 
ONtYRJR 
INV£NT TH£9os,

I 
;>ON. 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 page 11 
• GUEST COLUMN • COLUMN OF REASON 
Celebrate the Many Shades of America 
"All men are interdependent. Every nation is an heir of a vast treasury of ideas and labor to which both the living and the dead ofall nations have con­

Melvin 
tributed. Whether we realize it or not, each of us liues eternally in the reel. We are everlasting debtors to known and

Tardy 
unknown men and women. When we rise 
in the morning. we go into the bathroom 
when! we reaclzj(Jr a sponge which is pro­

vided by a Pacijic Islander. We reach for soap that was created by a European. Then al the table we drink coffee which is pro­vided for us by a South !lmt?rican. or lea by a Chinese, or cocoa by a West African. Before we leave j(Jr our jobs. we are already beholden to more than halfthe world." 
-Dr. Marlin Luther King. Jr. 
In October. things changn. Days grow shorter. nights coolnr. The laid-back summer sports of basPimll and golf yield to the autumn-paced football. basketball and hockey. !lazy summer PVPnings yir~ld to blustery days with crisp. blun skins and cotton douds. Farmers reap tlwir harw~sts amidst brilliant. "Wizard of Oz" -like colors which appear suddenly on tr<~<~s. All of tlwsP things herald a season at a crossroads. 
Recognizing v\·hat's roming. animals instinctivPly preparn !'or survival. Rabbits molt, squirrels storn food, gr·r~s<' !lock. Thny know their choices: adapt, migrate or perish. Like our animal l'ri<~nds. we also recognize changes in weatlwr. By now, upperdass students hav<) aiPrtPd tlw first year stud<)nts that migration is not an option. Thus, we all now know what to do. Nevnrthr))ess. there is a diiTerent sort of wind brewing in the distancP, a diiTnr<'nt sort of <:rossroads. to which we may not have the proper weathervann. 
Simply put, wn cannot, and should not, continue to ignorn thn rising winds of change with rr~spnct to d<'mographir:s in tho 21st cnntury. Whil<) we celebrate the increasingly vivid colors of October. we supprnss thn same signals of demographic change evidPllt across tlw country. Perhaps sonw beli<wn tlw current season will go on forever. but in rPality. tlw qw~stion now is not IF it will happen, nor even when ... it is: Ilow should wn pn~paro for it'? 
The dimal<' is changing for several rnasons. First, the pnre<)ntagc of Americans who arn peopln ol' color is rising. By the early 21st century, approximately one third of the nation will lw llispanir or Latino, African Ameriean. Asian American and Native Amcriran or a Pacilic islander. Consequently, a gmater percentage of America's workliliT.<'S !\1UST conw from this group-a fact which carries significant implications for our currr~nt Pducational systmn. Other factors include emerging mar­kr.ts around the world and tnmwndous advances in communi<:ations technology, from satellitP TV to tlw Internet. In short. we are becoming, globally, more intcrde­pr.ndcnt. 
One might assunw that. in a diwrse. global m:onomy. thP U.S. would have a clear advantage. i\flnr all. w<~ arn r~ssentially a nation descended !'rom immigrants. No country has a grnalf'l' cross-section of thr) world than we do. Therein lies the irony! Because of racial and ethnic animosity and lingering stereotypes, what should be an asset is more frpqunntly an Achilles lwei. 
We routinely ignorn situations whnn) a dichotomy of I'esoutTes and opportunities exists betwP<)n many in tlw majority and those of color. particularly in our nation's inner citir.s. Statistics showing that African Amnrican men an~ as likely to wind up in jail or killed as thr~y will college, that less than a third of all i\l'riean Americans in col­legn will graduatP in liVP ymtrs, and that a signilieant and incrnasing percentage of Hispanics an' not graduating from high schools shouldn't evokn pity or apathy ... as a nation that willnnml tlwsn individuals in the 21st century workforce, it should evoke panic! Our nation cannot compntn in tomorrow's workplace two-thirds cocked, with­out risking parity. 
Like our animal friPnds. our choices remain: adapt. migrat<1 or perish. Again. in our ease. migration is not rnally an option. To compete in the next century, we must adapt ways to harnnss tlw stnmgths of our diversity, instead of carrying it like a dead weight. Similar to Dorothy in Oz. we must realiZ\) that the ruby slippers of diversity, which have caused us so many problems in the past. an~ th<1 very means by which we can get wlwrn wp've wantml to go all along. 
While it is OctobPr. it is unlikely that Dorothy's consultants-the Good Witch and the Scarecrow-will drop by on Nl I!allow's Eve with all the answers. We'll need to figure them out ourselves. To begin with, I favor the call by many, including President Clinton. l'or more dialogun on race. Heeently, we'w lost some momentum with regards to this. l'or S<)vnral reasons that are not all bad. For one. an improving economy and decreasn in S<)rious crime statistics at·<~ creating a false sense that all is well with regard to Hi\CE relations. In addition, many ethnie communities are at a crossroads with respect to agenda. For example, traditional civil rights institutions like the NMCP facr~ an idrmtity crisis. scarcely two years aftpr a Million Man March on Washington. In tlw nwantime. deep-rooted race-relatnd problems still remain. 
In addition. at NoLrP DamP, thnrn has bnen a lull in discussions regarding race. We must begin dialogue atww. along with the rest ol' the nation, il' we tmly aspire to be a great. Catholic university. 
Some may question the mPrits of such discussions because they don't sec practical applications to calculus assignments, engineering problems, or LSAT examinations. True. it might not lwlp you to do br.ttnr in class, but perhaps one day it could help you understand tlw boss that doesn't look like you, or tap a customer base that could net millions for your company. In the diverse workplao) of the 21st century, you could become a more efl'ective manager. a more insightful community leader, a more influ­ential teac.lwr ... maybe nven a more Christian mom or dad. Clearly, there are bene­fits to such disr:ussions. 
Meanwhile, Oetober is hnrP, a srmson at a crossroads. Thn lr~aves are changing. The winds an\ blowing. Time is mnning out. Notre Dame .... Whit:h way should we go? 
Melvin R. Tardy is an assistant professional specialist in the First Year ofStudies and a Notre /Jame graduate. 1/e can be reached at melvin.r.tardy.l@ncl.edu. The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The New South: Tradition Gives Way to Architectural 'Improvements' 
/ 


Editor's note: This is the third installment written by students with­in the School ofArchitecture. These columns, under the byline The Column ofReason. will deal with the 



Jennifer
built environment ofNotre Dame. focusing in particular on recent addi­
tions and changes to our campus. 

Sobol 

The process of renovating South Dining Hall has begun. Many of us who frequent South Dining Hall are wondering why. That question is easily answered as we are reminded of the new dorms that feed into the South Dining Hall. The new South Dining Hall features a layout like North Dining Hall. This cafeteria area will occupy the space of the for­mer Oak Room. The campus architects, Ellerbe and Beckett, have done it again. They have ignored the traditional college gothic style of South Dining Hall in favor of a lesser, generic architectural language. I have several criticisms which relate to the function of SDH, the architectural language used and this renovation as it relates to the existing campus architecture. 
Functionally, the new SDH will not be an improvement over the existing SOH. With the addition of the new dorms that feed into SDH, it is reasonable to believe that changes need to be made to accommodate this influx of students. The plan of the cafeteria features many food bars which line the periphery of the room with "island" bars in the middle. Students enter the room from two sides, but after they pick up their trays there is no dear path or entry sequence. The students can wander from bar to bar, which, on a slow day, might be a pleasurable expe­rience. However. most of the time, the circulation paths will become congested producing potentially frustrating bottleneck situations and traffic jams. The size of the room is quite large and from the renderings, it appears that the ceilings are to be lowered to cope with this issue. I still contend that it will be an intimi­dating space to be in as mayhem erupts in the mad dash from one bar to the next. The placement of the salad bar in the center of the room is particularly unfortunate as it will stop traffic 11ow from all four directions of the room. 
Aside from the functional concerns, this food court raises another issue -that of architectural language. The new SDH is more akin to the University Park Mall food court architecturally than it is to the style of the campus. Ellerbe and Beckett are insensitive to the traditional gothic style of SDH in favor of mediocre architecture. The renderings in the lobby of the SDH look like they could be a proposal for a building anywhere in the U.S. Ellerbee and Beckett have taken a wonderful architectural mainstay and turned it into a place devoid of Notre Dame's character. 
The lack of character in the new SDH and the Oak Room is in contrast to the strong sense of tradition unique to Notre Dame. For years, our alumni have been drawn back to campus to breathe in the spirit of this place. The spirit is due to the people as well as the buildings and natural environment. These buildings are where we live, learn, teach and love. Why,' then, are Ellerbee and Beckett unsym­pathetic to the existing architecture when it is such a part of Notre Dame? (They have made attempts to make reference to the campus style with slat and pitched roofs, but when the end result is the effect of five milk cartons adjacent to each other like Debartolo, the reference is lost). It is important for the University to grow and change but not without a clear vision of what its goals are. Notre Dame does appear to have this kind of vision and that is why it is incongruent to see what is being built. 
I call upon the student body to question the direction of the new buildings at Notre Dame. South Dining Hall narrowly escaped another architectural disaster in the 60s. This proposal included the placement of pastel panels in some of the arches of SDH. This struck students as an absolutely ludicrous idea. They brought this to the attention of the administration and thankfully SDH wasn't subjected to the poor stylistic tendencies of 1960s architecture. 
Perhaps students do not feel this strongly or do not have an opinion. Part of this apathy toward the campus architecture derives from a lack of serious, critical thought. Begin to look more carefully around you and observe the built environ­ment. How does it move you? Why does it move you? If it doesn't strike a chord within us, then as an art, architecture has failed. We need to think critically. Our worst fear should be mediocrity in our lives and our world around us. Do not just ask yourself, "What is architecture?" but, "What should architecture be?" 
Jennifer A. Sobol is a fifth-year architecture student. She can be reached at Jennifer.A.Sobol.2@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
~------------~--~--------~--------------------~------~------------~----------~----~-­
page 12 Wednesday, October 8, 1997
ACCENT 


ose~c~a~ z a~ 




What is your favorite play? 


" 'Phantom of the Opera.' It's the only one I've seen." 
Dave Pagliarini Junior, Siegfried 

"'Jack and the Beanstalk.' It's the only play I was in. I was a bean." 
Dana Schiavone Sophomore, Lewis 



" 'Tess of the D'Urbervilles' because it's an accurate depiction of a young girl's journey into womanhood." 
Jared Patzke Senior, Stanford 

"'Macbeth.' I liked the Norse/witchcraft pseudo-bar­barianism." 
Ryan Hooper Graduate Student, Fischer Graduate Residences 



"'Fiddler on the Roof,' because of the music." 
Jessica Abel Freshman, Pasquerilla West 
The Observer/Kev1n Dalum 


By JENNY SHANK These W< Accem Wrirer each other to. and 
S 
o you susp111:t that thc1 casting director of life has given you a bit part in some­lighting <lllP cdsn's tragPdy? You'rn not alonn. Hosencrantz and Guildenstern feel your denote the pain. You may remmnber this sassy duo from llamlet. but perhaps you don't of which lwcauso Shakespnare didn't even allow them to strut and fret an hour upon the Scott a 
stagP bdore he yanked them. different 
Tom Stoppard sensml that Hosencrantz and Guildenstern had a lot more struttin· and and frc~Wn · to do, so he wrotn them their very own play. The Notre Dame Department of lends its Communication and Thc1atre· also decidnd those lovably dazed and confused fellows explores meritnd somP attention. and so will begin their Year of the Bard with a dynamic produc­Dan Sul tion of' Tom Stoppard's "Hosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead" on Oct. 8th. Guildenst1' 
Stage Managnr Dan Smith said that tlw play "takes a lot of cues from 'Waiting for Godot'... Stoppard's allusions to Bnckntt and Shakespeare combined with his own per­sonal flair for phi­losophy and drama crnatn a brilliant play that has ccq·­tainly mad!' a mark 0 n 2() [ h c!HI lll I' y tlwatl'r." 
Not onlv is "Hosnncrant; and 
<; u i I d P n s t P r n a rc' 
f) ead" a s c' min a I play in thP history of rnodprn thPatnr that nxplores intri­cate philosophical questions as it incorporatPs and plays with ShakPspParp's lan­guag!1, but NolrP l>anw's production of it promisl's to lw a rollieking good time -bncausn as evc~ryonP who has seen a Maiiistagn production knows, Notrn Danw actors can rollick with tlw bnst or them. 
Director Siiri Scott. a Saint Mary's alumna. said that " ']{()SnJHTantz and GuildnnslPrn arn Doad' was l'irst pc~rformnd in 11J(J7 and then n~vamJWd a couple Limns bnfore I (J6S, wlwn it opc•npd in London. It was a breakthrough in the way Stoppard con­s tr u c tP d r a t h(~ r nxistential idnas and qunstions. Tlw charaetPrs arc~ aware~ that tlwv arn charactnrs ar.Jd at 
the sanw time arP Dan Sullivan and Drew Rausch portray Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in Tom Stoppa aware that tlwy an· actors -it's a very fine line that tlwy must walk." Senior tlwai<~r major Leanne Hobinson, who plays a tragedian, said that "the play is very philosophical and provocative. It's as if Hosencrantz and Guildenstern have been 
plunked in thn middle of' Hamlet and they have no idea what's going on. The way they have to figure things out as they go along is a metaphor for humanity's position in the world." 
She wont on to say that the play is "chock full of double meanings and entendres," and noted that because the lines are so multi-layered, people will "probably need to see the play about five limns to understand it." Perhaps not entirely coincidentally, the play is being shown livn times between Oct. 8 and 12. 
Notre Dame's production of Hosnncrantz and Guildenstern is unique because it sepa­rates thn play into three worlds -the world of Hoscncrantz and Guildenstern, the everyone, a world ofthn playnrs, and the world of the play "Hamlet." the audienc 
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 page 13
ACCENT 

Ids clash and minglt~. As Dan Smith said, "Wiwn tlw worlds converge on 1wopiP must work within diiT<~rnnt l'ram_<'s ol' n•_I'Pr<'n~;<~ than tlw~ are used IHTantz and (;uilclnnstPrn wind up gellrng conlusnd. Smrth s<ud that tlw sPt de•signs hPip to bring the~ thr<'<' n·alms to lii'P as tlw__<;!Teets change to 
il'ling \\oriels. and "platl'orms mow around nwrph 111to clrllnrent shapes, all nfusPs Hose~ncrantz and Guilcltmstnrn." 
that tlw e·oncPpt of' tlw thre<' worlds makes this production uniquP. "It's Hll proclurtions l'vn seen in that it's more stylize·d. thn mak~·up and co~tunw ing IPrHis itsPII' to tlw idea that tlws.n thren worl.c~s .arn collrclr~g. and.rt_also 
phasis to tlw conwclic aspncts ol tlw play. I hrs procluctron defrnrtely ·thing that Stoppard gavn us." . van take·s on llw roiP ol' l~osPnnantz. and Drn\ Hausch th<' ro!P ol 
n. IHlrh pal'king a <·onwdi<' punch. You may rP~llPilll~.<;~· Sullivan l'ro~~ }'~~t lt,,·tion ol' "_\ Christmas Carol." and llausrh lrom llw Barchan, Srx · •paration." and "Our Country's Good." 
Louise L:dwarcls brings thP part of' tlw lead playnr to tlw stag<', whose chantr­lPr. Smith assurr~s us. will 
h a ,. " s o m n i n t n r n s t i n g 
philosophical things to say about arting and IWrf'orm­ing. such as "v\'p're actors -\\l''rp thl' oppositn or pPople•." Chris Kudlacz larkle•S lhP rJrPalll roll' of' llarniPl, and his portrayal \\ill bring tlw crazy sidn of' e•\·e·rvon<~·s l'avoritP great Darw. to lif'n. 
llobinson gushps about 1111' artistry or LIH' proclur­t ion. "Th<' c!Psigns an• V<'ry !'!assy and proi'Pssional and \'PI)' artsy; it's \'Pry polislwcl and tlw artors arP p<~rf'Pctly !'as!." Tlw costumes, n~nt­Pd !'rom Stratl'orcl. Ontario. h a ,. P lw <' n d <' s cr i b !' d bv Sm i t h as "gorgeous,;, llobinson as "f'abulous," and \\'<' can probably safely appl~· a fpw more snazzy adjPrlivPs to tlwrn. likP "smashing." "nifty" and "ke•Pn." 
For thost~ of you who hav<' not y!'l been (H'rsuadPd to SPP Host~nc:rantz and CuildPnslPrn because of' its sppe·tarular arting, cos­ltrrne•s. t'OillPdy, philosophi­!'al insight. and staging, Hobinson said tlwrn will lw ,. e•t an ot lw r att r a c: lion: :.partial nudity." 
Hut wait, bnf'on• you rille· through your copy of' du Lar to ascertain whnthpr nakPdnnss in tlw nanw of' art is okav by tlw lady of' tlw lakn.· l'ir:sl considPr arwtlwr promised l'eatun~ of' the• sho\\' for all you SprorkPls fans out thnr<': lh1•re• will be unitards, oh Photo Courtesy of Kevin Dalum \ !'S, lhnre will be unitards. 
fs play "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead." . This play will be the l'irst 
ill a snries or plays f'eatur­tights. as Scott said that nach of' this y<'ar , "• · .viii "have a dif'f'erent t~i~t narnan tlwmPs. Tlw lirst play. 'llosnncranl. .11 1 (;uildnnstc~rn an~ De.ad .. rs rary look at Shaknsp<'arn, and tlw rwxt play, ·nw Complete Works ol WIIm. 
idged).' is morP contPmporary ynt, a.nd tl!tm W<' nntn.r tlw. <~ctua! ':oriel ~~~ p with LIH' Artors !'rom thP London Stage s prnse•ntatron of A Mrdsun~mcr am· and Notr<' Damn's production of' 'As You Like• lt.' directed by Hegmald 
nrr til'kPls for "HosnrH·rantz and Cuilclnnstnrn ar<~ Dnacl" whiln the~ last. tPII us that drnss rPiwarsal was tnrrif'ic. and all involvnd are anxiOusly 
~play's opening. . . . . . l, "I can't wait to havn a livo audiencn. It wrll be~ an exr.rtmg evenrng lor nd it will bn a chancn !'or a real exchange of ennrgy bntwnen tlw aetors and e." So go alrnad Notre Dame-get your 13arcl on 1 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 



Shal{espeare and Slurpee 
By NORA REGINA MEANY Saint Mmy' s Accent Editor 
W
hen I got the call to do Accent Speaks the other day, I panicked. I knew nothing about Shakespeare, Rosen~r~ntz, Guilenstern or acting. ,What wa~ I going to write about? However, this IS how I came to the conclusiOn to write sonnets about the necter of convenience stores: The Slurpee. Please, try to follow the 
logic. 

It all began with my mind wandering to thoughts about food, which usually hap­pens when I find myself in a panic. I took a study break, and was enjoying a taste­tempting Coca-Cola Slurpee (my favorite flavor), when it came to me-why not write about tlw staple drink of college students? 
No, the other staple drink! The Slurpee!!!!!!!!!! 
But hovv would I tie that in to an Accent Speaks? I thought about it some more, and ate some more, and then began to formulate an idea. Why not just capitalize on the similarities between "Rosencrantz and Guilenstern are Dead" and the Slurpee? The two entities have so much in common, one would have to be blind to not see it. 
Hos<mcrantz and Guilenstern are secondary characters in Shakespeare's Hamlet. The Slurpee is a secondary pleasure in all of our lives. Stoppard's play is an exist~n­tiallook at Shakespeare, while my column is an existential look at the Slurpee, usmg the medium of' a Shakespearean Sonnet to express myself. Wow, it is almost scary how many similarities they share. I had shivers running down my spine from the thought of it. 
So, that's how I justified spending an hour trying to find a word to rhyme with "brain l'reezn." 
But I am not the god of English. The meters are off, because frankly I didn't have enough time on my hands to count the stresses of the lines. I am stressed enough alreadv. llah. Pun intended. 
Oh, Zme more thing. Just because I write my views on Slurpee consumption, that does not mean that I endorse that anyone reading this paper should go out and binge at the 7-1 L Too many Slurpees can be harmful to your system. Sorry to interrupt the !low or this pier.e, but that issue just had to be addressed. 
So, here is my Ode to Slurpees, in sonnet form: 
Sometimes I f'p,e( like life has got me beat 
My mind is spent as if it's paid the price 
I give myself a cold concocted treat 
l\·1ade solely out of syrup. dye and ice 
A Slurpoe is the treat that hits the spot 
With flavoring that's like a fruity hurst 
For when your mouth feels like it is dry rot 
A Slurpoo is the key to quench my thirst 
"What flavors do they have?" might be your query 
Let me assure you, one for every mood 


Piiia Colada, Coke, 'Nana or Cherry 
So get to know the happy Slurpee brood. 
If you would like a tasty bit 'o' heaven 
Hun your butt on down to 7-11 
llowever. I would never endorse drinking of any kind, would I? No. Of course not. In fart, whv would the subject of drinking even come up in anything that I would dare to writn? !~specially something so light as a comical look at "Slushy beverages" in the ge~nre of the sonnet. 
I have a friend, very close to me, chooses not to drink Slurpees at all. Although she might bE~ missing out on the fruity goodness o"such a liquid, I support her. So, in ordnr to make my poetry universally enjoyable, I wrote a second sonnet for those of you that abstain from drinking the icy treat. 
A Slurpee is the tool of corporate man 
An over-priced and calorific snack. 
To poison slowly is the Slurpee's plan 
Like a rhetorieal "knife in the back" 
A treat comprised solely of ice and coke 
Can only threaten to rot my white teeth 
To get that outcome I would rather smoke 
However. both toxins sans my belief 
The large and waxy cups don't suit the earth 
A translucent lid covers less than I please 
Really big straw-spoons do not serve their worth 


And I live in the fear of contracting Brain Freeze 
Such expensive beverages only cause pain 
When you mix ice with flavoring, what can you gain? 
Do you hear that'? It sounds like Shakespeare rolling in his grave.... 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 8, 1996 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAU • COLLEGE ATHLETICS 
Buckeyes set to battle Penn St. NCAA rule book fails to 
Associated Press "I wouldn't do that," he said Penn St.atc into the top spot, 
address health issues
in mock disgust. when• it remained the rest of COLUMBUS. Ohio Ohio State is a touchdown the season to clinch the nation­
Associated Press Ironically, sports safety wasSeventh-ranked Ohio State underdog for its game in Happy al championship. 
the main reason for the found­takes on No. 2 Penn State Valley, despite winning the last Even with a 49-point victory KANSAS CITY, Mo. ing of the NCAA in 1906, after

Saturday, but Buckeye coach two showdowns with the over a ranked opponent, Penn 
The Kansas City Star report­18 football players were killedJohn Cooper is trying to con­Nittany Lions and three of the State lost. 
ed in Wednesday's editions and 149 more were injured.
vince his team that it is also last four. Ohio State, on the other hand. 
that the NCAA docs not Today, the NCAA's own con­taking on the world. It is that one loss that still hasn't lost very often since. The 
require basic safety measures stitution says colleges must
After they beat then-No. II shakes the faith of Cooper and Buck!'~ I'S have won 29 of 31 
that could preserve the health "protect and enhance'' the
Iowa 23-7 on Saturday, Cooper many Ohio State fans. Thn mgul<lr-season ganws and have and even the lives of some ath­physical welfare of athletes.
didn't exactly heap praise on Buckeyes went to Penn State in linislwd 14th, sixth and second letes. However. the Star's analysishis players. 1994 with a 6-2 record and in tlw polls, starling with the 
Instead. the NCAA leaves of NCAA injury data indicated
''I'll tell you what I told them ranked 21st in the country, year or I he llappy Valley deba­
medical protection almost that leaving it up to the' col­
after the game: Guys, we're not while Penn State was 6-0 and cle. Tilt·~· won a share of tlw Big entirely to the consciences and leges hasn't worked. "There isvery good, nobody thinks you're No. 1. Ten tillt• last year and finished 
budgets of each college, the a concern that ... increased 
very good. You know all of our "Everything that could go second in 1995, beating Ptmn Star found in an 18-month athletics activity has not beengood players left last year. We wrong went wrong that clay." State l'al'.h tim1~. 
investigation. matched by an increase incan't play, we can't coach, but Cooper said. CoopPr acknowledges that 
The newspaper said the appropriate medical support,"
we're still winning," he said The Nittany Lions lashed Ohio Ohio ;ltaln has played some of 
NCAA doesn't rnquire schools said a recent report by the
Tuesday at his weekly news State (>3-14 -the most points its fin,•st football against Penn to hire any alhletic"trainers or NCAA Committee onconference. "Circle the wagons scored against the Buckeyes in State. hut he doesn't know 
mandate, as one of its own Competitive Safeguards and 
a little tighter. work a little 92 years. When the team exaetl.1 why. 
committees recommended, Medical Aspects of Sports.
harder and play harder... rrturned home, the state was in "Wn \ ,. played real well. but 1 
that coaches know lifesaving Although some committee
Asked by reporters if he real­an uproar and many were call­don't Sl'l' any more enthusiasm techniques. members believe the NCAAly felt his team was being ing for Cooper's job. or re,·,·ngn or anything like "I don't disagree at all 
that has shown an interest in the

slighted by the polls. media and But the Buckeyes regroupnd that," lw said. "You don't hear one death is one 
too many," welfare of athletes. at least
fans, he said he was upset by to win their next three ganws. play11rs talking about that." 
NCAA Executive Director one former committee member
the negativity surrounding his including Cooper's lone victory Ont:l' again -like the 1994 Cedric Dempsey said. "That's a now wonders whether the program. over Michigan in his nine years team that· averaged 48 points a 
constant concern." NCAA really cares.
"All people ask me is, what's at Ohio State. game '' llile going 1 I-0 -Penn 
But programs operate too "They have the gall and 
wrong with us? What's wrong "If we hadn't come back and State has a volatile offense. 
differently to enforce blanket temerity to ignore us,'' saidwith us?" he said. won out. I'm not sure I'd be "Tiw~ 'rn kicking the emp out rules, he said. Paul Gikas,
He added. "Everybody's writ­coaching here now," he said. of pnopll'," Cooper saicl. a retired patholo­
"I think it's really hard to gist whose six-year term on
ing about what's wrong with The game ended up a painful But. as with Iowa a wn11k ago, place number criteria upon the committee ended last year.
us. We're not very good. We'n~ nwmory for both schools. That SOiliO q unstion tlw quality of the 
institutions, that you have to "I question their sincerity in
just plugging along." same October Saturday, sec­peopl1· 
have 'X number' of staff," their concern about the health
He also said he would never ond-ranked Nebraska beat No. "I don't know if they've been 
Dempsey said. and safety of the athletes."
bad-mouth his team. :-1 Colorado and vaulted over tested yet," Cooper said. 
The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to .l p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice. 314 LaFortune and !rom 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sitleds is 3p.m: All classitleds must he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds lor content without issuing refunds. 

Classifieds 

LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR. I need tix for NO/USC game. I am Need 4 BC TIX 716-425-9845 Have you ever had to steer a rather CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE willing to trade NO/West Vir. tix or large, stalled, metallic pea, van
NOTICES FOR RENT 
PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST. NO/Navy tix or pay cash . . Call Want two home game football tick­through a toll plaza? Try it you'll PHONE & COMPUTER EXPERI­Bob (818)793·0412 ets for 11/2 or 10/25. Call Alan, col­like it! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 ENCE A MUST. $7.75/HOUR, 1·6 BULLA RD. MCKINLEY TERRACE, lect, (813)899-1208 after 7 PM LaFortune Student Center M-F; SWANSONPARK3BDRM ############### EST. Jamie-I'll ask the Milford recep­
Store Hours 9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO P.O HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS For Sale: tionist out, and we can double! Mon.·Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight BOX 11397, SOUTH BEND. IN ALSO. 2726551 2 USC student tix 4 Navy GAs 4 sale Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. 46634. (not GAs!) Great Price Don't you love it when your assis· Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR call Jenny @ 687-8435 Call Michele @ x0831 tant's back? Sun.: Noon-Midnight ......Windsor Park•••••• FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND ############### (closed home football Sat.'s) ···conference Center••• OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. Need USC & BC tickets Martin's has no pesto-Bryan 
Phone 631-COPY VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS · 5 ################ Call Greg 2288 bought it all. 
Upscale restaurant ("The Vintage MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 2 BC student tickets for sale KEENAN HALL Cafe") looking for experienced 243-0658. call Jenny @ 687-8435 NEED 1 USC GA Shannon Dunne is the most beauti­CHARITY GOLF SCRAMBLE evening waitstaff for ala carte din· ################ Call Christina 634·1425 ful woman on campus. Saturday, October 11 ing. Must be 21 y.o. Apply in per­THAT PRETIY PLACE. Bed and 10 AM Shotgun, 18 holes son; M-F Breakfast Inn has space <Jvailable NEED WV Tix a.s.a.p. 1 Student exchanged BC GA 4 Sale Quoth the Raven: "Nevermore!" 4 players/team, $1 0/player 4020 Edison Lakes Parkway for football/parent wknds. s Rooms Call Chns 4-2220 Call Louie @ x1842 PRIZES: 1st. 2nd, 3rd, long drive Mishawaka with private baths, $70-$90. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 close to pin Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. I want to trade 6 Navy tixs for 3 BC 2stud tixbooks-(Unsigned) LaFortune Student Center PIZZA AFTERWARDS! ...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH""" Toll Road, Exit #1 07, tixs Call Sam 289·2767 One Senior-One Junior .J High-Speed Copies To sign up call Chris @ x3271 CLASS TRAVEL needs students to 1-800-418-9487. ·All games! $120 cumulative ,. Canon Color Laser Copies 
promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15 USC stud tic for $45. (You need Brian 3423 -! Digital Color Printing ... trips & travel free' Highly motivated FURNISHED HOMES GOOD ID!) Call 44465 .J Binding & LaminatingILOST & FOUND I students can earn a free trip & over AREA NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT Need 2 USC GA'S and 4 BC GA'S ..; Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 
$10,000! Choose Cancun, SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 NOTRE DAME For Family. Call Rob or Bobby Phone 631-COPY would appreciate anyone who finds Bahamas, Mazatlan. Jamaica or FOOTBALL TICKETS X3056 keys to room 308 to call x 1862 Florida! North America's largest stu­BUY· SELL· TRADE DOING A

TICKETS

If you find the little grit who stole dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800-232-0058 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LONDON PROGRAM them. you can also call x1862 838-6411 CONFIDENTIAL Need 4 USC APPLICATION? 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND TICKET·MART. INC. TIX YOU CAN TURN IT IN NOW, black-grey sweatshirt w\ keys taken ··spring Break .. "Take 2""" HOME GAMES.272-6551 Will pay U.S. currency YOU DON'T HAVE TO WAIT at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free. BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI· (no Canadian) UNTIL OCTOBER 17. dame security Hot destinations! Free Parties, NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA"D VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. Call Joe 634-4956 
Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426-FOR NAVY CALL TODD 674-7645. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Hardy, blue bookbag lost in bookstore 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 243 5609 Don't you wish you could play darts on 10/1. if found call steve at x· ND FOOTBALL TICKETS like I can? 

PERSONAL
2070. REWARD OFFERED!! 4 USC GAs FOR SALE 
Restaurant Servers wanted at Old 703-590-937 4 DAYTIME#: 232-2378 New kids, vacuums, and strip LOST: BLUE FOSSIL WATCH Chicago Steakhouse. lv msg EVENING #: 288-2726 PREGNANT? If you are pregnant shows-what else could you ask for with leather band Apply after 5:00pm at and condisering your options, we at a slumber party? call: john -4197 reward!! please' 222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200 Wanted: Individual wan is 11ckets for ND TICKETS WANTED are a loving couple loooking to 
Under New Management. LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay DAYTIME#: 232-2378 adopt. Please call Morgs. found book laying in engineeriing cash. Phone (318)752·1208 or EVENING #: 288-2726 1-800-866-8848 after 6 PM How was the slushee? Oh. I classroom Restaurant Hostess wanted at (318)747·8820. (expenses paid). forgot-you didn't drink it. call john -4197 to identify Old Chicago Steakhouse. FOR SALE 
Apply after 5:00pm at 2 Pitt GA tix: $100 N.D. G.A.'S HOPE YOUR HAVING A GREAT Make sure the vinyl pants are sewn 
LOST: Purple fleece in Debart on 222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200 Call 287-0611 271-9412. DAY AND THANKS FOR BEING up for next weekend! Thurs., Oct 2 between 2-3:15. Under New Management. COOL LOVE YA TONS Please send him home. I miss him. HEY SUZY AND ELLEN SOLD WANTED N D G A'S LATER POOKY NIP I'm still green. Reward. 243-2643. Marketing Intern needed for THEIR USC GA'S .. TO ALL HOME GAMES 
Heartland and Old Chicago SO STOP CALLING THEM'!! 271 1526 WANTED: FORMAL DATES The swami says, lost CAMERA at west quad formal Steakhouse. Call for interview JR. OR SR. W/3 FRIENDS FOR "Baltimore in four." call ali X1511 at 234-5200. More information Married Stud Tix tarsale •i·4610 ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME MY ROOMIES. 
posted at Career/Placement GAMES AND LSU CALL 0849 The swami's brother says, Center. SALE: 2 Student Tix for USC CALL MIKE 800-991-0525 "Indians in four."

I. WANTED 

Call277-1530. Mofaki goes to the mother land in T 
babysitter for two nice kids aged WANTED 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE minus 10 days. Have fun and buy Now the swami's are Need one ACTEX manual for 8 and 6. occasional evenings or Need BC GA's. Grandparents are FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL me stuff. going to fight. Actuarial Exam 100. Call John 287-afternoons, 5 mins. walk from coming in and will pay good money! JOHN AT Love. 
5190 Hesburgh. 273 9739 Call Frank. 4-2340. (415) 6613-1391 BY 10/18. D.J. Susan, Matt says hi. 
------·-------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 
~-------------~----------~.~------~--~--------~-----------­
The Observer· SPORTS page 15 



Pippen to miss two months 
Associated Press 

you deal with it and move on.... still can challenge for a cham­First and (oremost, Scottie's got pionship. I think we will,"CHICAGO to take care of himself." Jordan said. 
Scottie Pippen is expected to 
Rest was prescribed for the "I think it puts some pressure
miss at least the first two 
foot this summer, but it began on us to try to fulfill some of the 
months of the season following 
hurting Pippen again. He role that he's always been able 
foot surgery, a major loss for 
skipped his own charity exhibi­to cover. Maybe some of the the Chicago Bulls as they go for 
tion game in September and other players, some of the other
their third straight NBA cham­
then missed the first several teams will take us for granted.
pionship. 

days of practice. Maybe they don't think we're 
The Bulls said Tuesday their 
Without Pippen, the Bulls capable. They may underesti­
star forward had an outpatient 
chances of winning a lot of mate our capability and, next operation Monday in New York. early games and getting in posi­thing you know, we can sneakPippen, who did not wish to tion to have the league's best in there and steal a few,"
discuss the surgery, injured the 
record for a third straight sea­Jordan said. 
soft tissue of his left foot last 
son could be in jeopardy. That Pippen, 32, averaged 20.2 
season during Game 5 of the 
best record has secured a points during the season and
Eastern Conference finals 
home-court advantage through­19.2 in the playoffs last season
against Miami. 

out the playoffs the last two and was also the Bulls' best
"Each year we start off with seasons. 
defender and primary ball han­
some sort of challenge and this 
Jordan and Pippen have been dler. 
makes it even more so," 
teammates on all five of the He is entering his'!of 1 th season
Michael Jordan said Tuesday 
Bulls' championship teams this with the Bulls and has been
following practice in suburban 
decade and they have comple­miffed by a contract that pays
Deerfield. 

mented one another as well as him far less than his market
"We know that it goes with­
·any tandem to play in the NBA. value. He will make less than 
out question that if he was here 
"1 think once he's healthy he $3 million this season under a
we'd be that much better of a 
can come back and hopefully contract extension he signed in 
team. That's the situation and 
we'll be in a situation where we 1991. 
C a I I 1-800-878-3872 
www.att.com/college/np.html 
-
-


AT&T 

It's all within your reach. 
WNBA makes changes for '99 
Associated Press 

would feature the champions of The regular season will beginthe Eastern and Western con­June 11, with the last possibleNEW YORK ferences, along with the two date of the championship gameThe WNBA will expand its teams with the next best regu­Sept. 1. The first All-Star game
regular season and playoffs. 
lar-season records. The four will be held during the middle next year, and add an All-Star teams will compete in two, best­of the 1999 season as part of a game in 1999. of-3 semifinal series. three-day break. 
League president Val 
The semifinal winners will "The success of our inauguralAckerman said Tuesday that then play in a best-of-3 series to season has convinced us that each team will play 30 regular­determine the WNBA champion. 
that the time is right to begin season games in 1998 -an This year, the semifinals and that process as part of the increase of two over this year. final were single elimination 
WNBA's long-term growthShe also said the playoffs formats. 
strategy," Ackerman said. 
YOU DEMAND POWER,SPEED, AND MOBILITY. 

$300 
cash back* 



$200 
Power Macintosh" 6soo/275 ,,, ...) ;t. 32/4GB/12XCD/Multiple Scan tSAY:.:::::::i~~~m~::~~i:::}::~:::;:::::·::.·:···:·· 
cash back* 
L2/Zlp Drive,/EthemetJ\Iideo ln/NTSC OUVI<bd :: Now $2,675 (or $saj\no~~ ~REBATE · · [...PowerBook•t4oocs/133 ·•· t6/IGB/8XCD/l2/11.3" DSTN display Now $2,085 ·(or $39/month)-BEFORE REBATE 

Save another 

Sso 
Now $1,550 (or $z9/month)-BEFORE REBATE 
cash back* 
Color StyleWriter" 4100 
Now $220-BEFORE REBATE 
WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? 
Now is the right time to get an Apple Power Macintosh or 
PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets 
you do more than you can imagine, you can save big time. For a 
limited time, students are eligible for special cash rebates. 
*This is a limited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple campus reseller today for complete details. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 112 • Mon.-Fri. S:oo-s:oo http:/jwww.nd.edu/-ndstore/ 
Prices shown include ClarisWorks and a Bonus Bundle. PowerBook 14oocs/133 includes a carrying case. 
While supplies last! 



---~~~-------------~--.~~-·--c-~-·-·------~-~-----------­
Wednesday, October 8, 1997

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 


Underdog Indians look to O's 
Associated Press 
BALTIMOHE What are thcs!~ guys doing here? 
The Clew~land Indians arrived at Camden Yards on TuPsclay to prepare for the i\L champi­onship series against the Baltimore Orioles. i\nd they are making no apologies !'or it. 
"I heard that a lot. that !Wery­body expected tlw Yankees to be here,"saicl Matt Williams, in the postseason for tlw lirst timn since 1989. "Wp b!'liPv!' we can win. You have to." 
Forget tlw mediocre record, the midseason mental lapses, the exorbitant bill for MHis per­formed on most mt>mbers or the pitching staf~ 
After escaping another dose of persecution at the hands of the Ne'w York Yankees. the Indians are currently playing .600 baseball -as in three­out-of-five. 
Look out, postseason. Here come the overachievers. 
The Indians liked the role of underdog so much against New York, they're playing it again. And they're facing the team that knocked them out in the first round last ymtr. 
Perhaps hedging his bets against an 0-2 start in Baltimore, ClevPland manager Mike Hargrove decided to save Charles Nagy for Game 2. 
Chad Ogea, brilliant against the Yankees except !'or Paul O'Neill's grand slam in Game 3, will start the opPnPr against Scott Erickson. 
"We feel good about our­selves," Hargrove said. "This club wants to win badly." 
American league Championship Baltimore vs. Cleveland 
Wednesday, Oct. 8 

Cleveland (Ogea 8-9) at Baltimore (Erickson 16-7) 

Thursday Oct. 9 

Cleveland (Nagy 15-1 0) at Baltimore (Key 16-1 0) 

Saturday, Oct. 11 

Baltimore (Mussina 15-8) at Cleveland (Hershiser 14-6) 

Sunday, Oct. 12 

Baltimore (Erickson 16-7) at Cleveland (Wright 8-3) 

Monday Oct. 13 
Baltimore at Cleveland if necessary 

Wednesday, Oct. 15 
Cleveland at Baltimore if necessary 


Thursday, Oct. 16 
Cleveland at Baltimore if necessary 
This a much different tPam and circumstances than two years ago, when a utopian 100­44 season ended with a World Series loss to Atlanta. Pardon the engravers if' they'rn not carving Cleveland's rings just yet. 

"I don't know what it is," llargrovn said in a sof't voice. "I just have a good l'nnling about 
this team."  
"This  club's  got  a  lot  of  
heart," IIargrove said.  
Now,  let's  see  how  many  
games they have lef't.  


ALCS pits Alomars in fight for World Series 
Associated Press 

BALTIMORE 
Alomar vs. Alomar isn't a divorce proceeding, it's becoming an annual ritual in the American League playoffs. 
Last year, Hoberto's spitting incident dominated the first­round sBries, when BaltimorB beat Cleveland in four games. This limB, it's Sandy's bat that's getting the attention as the Indians and OriolBs pre­pare for Wednesday night's start to the AL championship series. 
One Alomar definitBly is going to the World Series. It's hard to go wrong with either. Roberto's an eight-time All­Star, Sandy's a five-timer. 
But ever since Sept. 27, 1996, the night Hoberto spit at umpire John Hirschbeek in Toronto, the Alomars' accom­plishments have been over­shadowed by the Alomar expectoration. 
"There's bBen all kind of stuff, good and bad," Sandy said after hitting the game­winning homer at the All-Star game and winning the MVP award. "We're a good family. We're a baseball family. We do the best we can do to put baseball up there." 
It's been a season of' role reversal. Sandy was healthy, catching ] 00 games in consec­utive seasons for the first time and setting career highs with a .324 average, 21 homers and 83 RBis. 
And then there was that game-tying, eighth-inning homer in Game 4 against the New York Yankees on Sunday night, saving the Indians from elimination. 
Roberto was limited to 112 games by the five-game sus­pBnsion from the Hirschbeck incident, a sprained left ankle, a pulled right groin and a right shoulder strain. 
Usually a switch-hitter, injuries have prevented him from hitting right-handed since May 31. 
lie hit .333 with 14 homers and 60 HBis, clown from career bests of 22 homers and 94 HB!s the previous year. 
"The only reason this season is fun is because we're win­ning," Roberto said. "From my personal view, it hasn't been fun because I haven't been able to be out there the way I want every day. It's just something you have to deal with. Injuries come pi aying the game. It's part of the game. Maybe it's sending me a message to prepare myself stronger next year." 
With Cleveland trying for its second straight AL pennant, Hoberto Alomar hit a game­tying single off Jose Mesa in the ninth inning of Game 4, then hit a go-ahead homer off Mesa in the 12th. 
Baltimore, which won an AL-best 98 games, is seeking its first pennant since 1983. After beating Cleveland as the wild card team last year, the Orioles lost to the Yankees in five games. 





THUR 
DERSEN 
presents 
A Partner Panel Discussion of Service Lines 
and 

An Opportunity to Meet Representatives from Many of our Offices 
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 Who: Open to all Juniors and Seniors Where: University Club -Main Lollllge When: 7:00 until9:00 p.m. 
(~asual Attire 
Rajjle Prizes will be given from each oj'the offices represented 
www.arthurandersen.corn 
.····· 

Wednesday, Octobers, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
------------------------------~~~--------~--------~------~~--------------------------------------~~--­
-

Life's easier with 10¢ a minute, AT&T Call Organizer® and Student Advantage®. It's all FREE just for being with AT&T. 
• 
10¢ A MINUTE-AT&T Simple Rates®-on long distance calls from home to anywhere in the 

U.S. from 7pm-7am weekdays and all weekend long; 25¢ a minute all other times. 

• 
FREE AT&T CALL ORGANIZER: no more hassles-use your personalized code before you dial, and we'll tally your phone bill by roommate (up to 12 people per bill). 

• 
FREE STUDENT ADVANTAGE: get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands 


of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors-like Kinko's~ Tower Records® and Amtrak~ 
AT&T S1mple Rates is avatlable to AT&T res•denttallong distance subscnbers. 1s sub)ect to billing avatlability and can't be comb1ned w1th any other domestic sav1~gs opt•ons. Th1s plan also offers rates for other types of calls on your ma1n~b1Ued account. caU for deta1ls. Enrol\ by l \130/97. Plan is ava1lab\e until \2131/97. If AT&T S1mple Rates billing 1sn't avatlable 1n your area. you'll be enrolled 1n the AT&T One Rate Plan. 
Live off campus? Get it all FREE with one easy call. 


C a II 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
It's all within your reach. 
ATa.T 
© 1997 AT&T 
----.r---------,~----------------------------~~-------------------. 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 8, 1997 
-
• NFL 

Green Bay sends Simmons packing 
Associated Press other day," Wolf said, referring 
to Sunday's 21-16 win over 

GREEN BAY. Wis. Tampa Bay. "Why is he better? 
Green Bay's trade of line­That's hard to answer. He's backer Wayne Simmons to the better." Kansas City Chiefs on Tuesday The 32-year-old Joyner, came down to one thing. signed as a free agent for $1 according to Packers general million after 11 seasons in manager Ron Wolf: Seth Joyner Philadelphia and Arizona, had is a better player, expected to battle for a starting 
"The reason we decided to let job with the Packers but missed Wayne Simmons go was we the first five games after under­wanted to to give an opportuni­going surgery on his left knee. ty to let Seth Joyner play," Wolf Against the Buccaneers, he said. "It gives Wayne an oppor­was on the field late in the tunity to go somewhere where fourth quarter when the he could play. We feel it Packers prevented Tampa Baywouldn't have worked with from mounting what could have players splitting time. been a game-winning drive. On 
"He did an excellent job for the second-to-the-last play of us. It gives us an opportunity to the game, Joyner stopped have a different style player to receiver Reidel Anthony at the play, and maybe a better play-Tampa Bay 40 after a 20-yard 
er." gain. 
The trade. which barely beat The Packers had signed the NFL's deadline, sends Simmons to a one-year deal Simmons to the Chiefs for a after he tested the free agent sixth-round draft choice in market. His value was reported 1998. to have been affected by his 
It allows the Packers to get arrest March 1 for driving Joyner on the field more often under the influence of alcohol in an attempt to boost a in Hilton Head, S.C., and a run­defense that ranks 23rd in the in with coaches while visiting NFL this season. the Houston Oilers. 
After sitting, out the first five Simmons later was found games with a knee injury, guilty in the South Carolina Joyner, a three-time Pro Bowl case. lie denied doing anything selection. played for the first wrong while visiting the Oilers. time last week against Tampa In July, he was accused by an Bay and had three tackles in 18-year-old of sexually assault­limited play, Simmons, 27, a ing her on her graduation night first-round draft pick of the at a nightclub in Savannah. Ga. 
Packers in 1993. was seventh A grand jury is to decide on thf' team this season with 27 whether he will be charged in tackles in six games. the incident. 
He had started at left outside 
linebacker the last 38 regular­


Broncos running behind Davis 
Associated Press team." 
If Elway is the general, Davis 
DENVEH has at least earned a promotion 
Terrell Davis likes to celebrate to colonel. Ilis 171 yards against a big play with a military salute New England was his fifth 100­and the Denver Broncos running plus game this season. Ilo leads back is no longer the unknown the NFL with 776 yards and is on soldier. pace for 2,000. 
With a national audience The Broncos (6-0) have won by watching Monday night, Davis an average of 17.5 points pershowed why he's one of the game and have not trailed by 
NFL's most dominant runners more than a touchdown. The and prompted more debate over trend has allowed them to keep who commands the Denver putting the ball in Davis' hands. 
offense -a third-year running "People don't understand that back or quarterback John Elway. if our defense wouldn't have "I think it's funny when people been playing their butts off, we 
mention John passing the torch would've still been throwing the and all that junk. I don't see it ball," Davis said of Mondaylike that," Davis said. "I see John night's game. "They were very as still being the general. I'm just instrumental in helping us run a foot soldier. As long as John is the ball." here, he's going to run this Davis has led by example. 
After running for 1,117 yards in his rookie season, he still was determined to make some adjustments. 
''I'm always looking for the big plays now, whether it's catching a pass or running the ball. When I'm back there, and the ball's snapped, my mindset is like, Tm going to break this one.· It wasn't like that my first two years." 
Davis still managed a 1,500­yard season in 1996 and is already halfway there with 10 games to play in 1997. 
"Terrell just gets stronger and stronger," Elway said. "When we get people on their heels. he's at his best. He's able to put the dagger in a little bit deepnL He just keeps getting better and bet­ter eaeh week." 

Carrier fined for using his head 
Associated Press Carrier wa's penalized 15 yards on the play. He also was GHEEN BAY. Wis. penalized an additional 15 Detroit Lions safety Mark yards for removing his helmet Carrier has been fined $7,500 to argue the call. Brooks said ror hitting Green Bay Packers the Packers' replay didn't show 
receiver Hobert Brooks with the the hit, so he didn't want to 
crown or his helmet in a game judge whetlwr it was an illegal Sept. 28, a union spokesman play. says. "The guy was trying to make 
"(The league) said Carrier a play," Brooks said. "I don't had a view or the ball and he · know if he did it accidentally or could've avoided and he on purpose, but if he led with 
didn't," Gene Upshaw, execu­his head, then (he was fined) rightfully. You ean't do that." 
Earlier in the game, Carrier hit receiver Don Beebe with a high tackle that resulted in a concussion. Lions linebacker Stephen Boyd then wrapped an arm around the unconseious Beebe and twisted him to the turC 
Neither Carrier nor Boyd wen~ lined on that play, accord­ing to Upshaw. 

tive director of the NFL Players ~~"""""""-"""""""'-"""""""'"""'"""'""""""""'"""'""""'""""'""""'"""'"""'"""""""'""""""""'"""'""""'91 
Association, told the Green Bay
Press Gazette. 
The hit came in the third quarter of the Lions' 26-15 vic­tory at Pontiac, Mich. 
season games. Although he 

Saint Mary's College 
tried to catch on with Kansas City as a free agent after Green Bay's Super Bovvl champi­
Ireland Program onship and then ran into a 
Information Session: 
series of off-the-field problems, Simmons was publicly praised 

TONIGHT
by coach Mike Holmgren early this season for his leadership. October 8 The Green Bav Press-Gazette 
Haggar College Center 
reported T~esday that Simmons got on Holmgren's Room 303 "bad side" recently by showing 
7:00p.m.
up late for a couple of team meetings. Students discuss curriculum at Wolf was asked if Simmons 
St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland. 
played below expectations 

Everyone welcome! 
since his breakthrough game in the 1995 playoffs at San Francisco. 

APPLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED 
Simmons caused a fumble on the 49ers' first play and it was returned for a touchdown. He also dominated tight end Brent .Jones and was considered a 

University of Notre Dame International SUtdy Program in 

1998-99 Academic Year "Expecting the Unexpected" With Professor Paul McDowell 
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 7:00pm Room 115 O'Shaughnessy 
Return in Students will be on harrd to answer uestions 

Wednesday, October 8, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• NHl 
Avalanche slide past Bruins, remain undefeated 
Associated Press 
DENVEH 

Josef Marha scored his first NIIL goal and added an assist and multi-million dollar man .Joe Sakic had his f'irst goal of the season as the Colorado Avalanche remained unbeaten Tuesday night with a :~-2 victory over th<) Boston Bruins. 
:'\dam Deadmarsh had a goal and an assist !'or Colorado (3-0­1). winners of' its last three gamPs. Goaltender Craig Billington stoppnd 28 of 30 shots including a breakaway attempt by Per-.Johan Axelsson late in tlw third period as Patrick Hoy was given the night ofT. 
Ted Donato had his first goal or the season and Tim Taylor got his second for the Bruins, who lost their second straight. Byron Dafoe made 20 saves. 
Marha broke a 1-1 tie at 14:16 or the second period flipping a backhander over a sprawled Dafoe. Donato split the defense to send a backhanded shot between the legs of Billington and tied the game at 2:28 of the pnriod. 
Deadmarsh send a rebound shot over Dafoe at 18:23 of the second period with the Avalanche on the power play. 
Sakic -who signed a three­year $21 million deal with the Avalanche this season arter going into the free agent market -gave Colorado a 1-0 lead 
16:16 into the first period. 

The Avalanche captain broke in alone on Dafoe after receiving a pass from Deadmarsh at the red line and sent a waist-high wrist shot past Dafoe's stick. 
Stars 4, Sabres 2 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
Dominik Hasek allowed two 
goals on the first three shots he 
faced and was booed by Buffalo 
fans in pregame ceremonies as 
the Dallas Stars beat the Sabres 
4-2 Tuesday night. · .Jere Lehtinen scored two 
goals, including one on a penalty 

Si mang1a malissimo a 
('81q!JJ8j S! IOOLjOS 8Ljj)B pOOj 841 :UO!lBiSUBJl) 
Tired of the school cafeteria? Just because you're a student doesn't mean you have to eat like one. Fazoli's features 12 authentic Italian menu items priced under S4. 
scuola; 
Real ltaJi ® 

an. Rea] Fast,. 

52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 

1-ll...J.l...£AJ ---­
Tickets available at ~~ and HEARTLAND 

SISTER MACHINE GUN 
Tickets available at ~~and HEARTLAND 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 

Snow Crab Legs, All-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & lib. ofSnow Crab Legs, just 17.95 Open 5-lOpm Tues.-Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner ;!22 S. MICHIGAN· SOUTH BEND· (219) 234-5200 
shot, to lead Dallas to its first victory in three games this sea­son. Mike Modanoscored 55 sec­onds into the game on a break­away, and he set up Greg Adams' goal less than three minutes later for the Stars. 
Miroslav Satan scored off a rebound for Buffalo, which was playing its first game this season at Marine Midland Arena. Wayne Primeau also scored for the Sabres after Dallas had built a 4-1 lead. 
Fans, still angry about com­ments Hasek made about for­mer coach Ted Nolan, booed Hasek during pregame introduc­tions and several times through­out the game, including once in the third period when he appeared making several saves on a scoreboard highlight. 
Hasek carried Buffalo to the Northeast Division title and became the first goaltender in 35 years to be named most valu­able player, but got in trouble with fans for saying he did not want Nolan to return as coach. 
Nolan, named coach of the year after last season, since has been replaced by Lindy Ruff. 
Lehtinen's penalty shot came later in the period after he inter­cepted Shannon's cross-ice pass and was pulled down by the defenseman during a break­away. On the penalty shot, Lehtinen faked Hasek to the ice and beat him with a backhand, drawing more abuse from Buffalo fans. 
Senators 1, Sharks 0 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

Shawn McEachern scored his first goal of the season and Damian Rhodes had 23 saves for his fourth career shutout as the Ottawa Senators beat the San .Jose Sharks 1-0 Tuesday night. 
Rhodes set the tone by fending off a flurry of shots in the first period, when the Sharks went 0­3 on the power play despite out­
' 
shooting the Senators 13-3. 
San .lose had two more power-play opportunities in the third period but the Senators' defense damped down, allowing the Sharks to get off just one shot while they were shorthand­ed, with Rhodes blocking it. 
McEachern broke the score­less tie at 5:32 of the second. With Ottawa on the power play, Alexei Yashin passed off to Sergei Zholtok, who took a shot from the left circle. 
San Jose goaltender Kelly Hrudcy, making his first start of the season, stopped the shot but the puck trickled away and McEachern knocked in the rebound from just outside the creai;i.e. 
With about four minutes remaining, Ottawa's Marian Hossa got off a shot from the crease but Hrudey made a sprawling stick save to turn it away and keep the game within reach. But San .Jose, managing just four of its 23 shots in the final period, couldn't muster any offense. 
Each team played without one of their top players due to con­tractural problems, though the Sharks announced before the game that the team and restrict­ed free-agent center Jeff Friesen had agreed to contract terms. Ottawa and All-Star forward Daniel Alfredsson are still trying to work out a contract. 
Friesen, the Sharks' second all-time leading scorer with 133 points in 209 games, is expected to rejoin the team at practice Wednesday. 
Alfredsson, who had 24 goals and 71 points overall last sea­son, was expected to fly to Los Angeles to meet with his agent, Mike Barnett. 
There is a chance the two sides could get together for dis­cussions while the Senators arc in Southern California for games Friday against Anaheim and Sunday against Los Angeles. 
CJTie Society for CHum an ~source ?(_anatlement &the [}(anatlement A...ssociation wou(d fike to invite ever2'one to attend the . .. 
Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
········~ 
Dr. Steven Kerr 
General Electric 
"Developing Leaders for the 21st Century" .•..••.•• • •, 
Friday October 10 12:00--1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 8, 1997 
• MA.JOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
The Atlanta Braves stumbled around the field. hardly looking like a team that's supposed to be used to the postseason spot­light. 

A grounder slippPd between Fred McGrif'l"s legs. A chopper down the third-basi' lin!' was misplayed into thn•p runs by Chipper Jones. Kenny Lofton banged into the wall but forgot to catch the ball. leading to two more unearned runs. 
Not even a great throw by right fielder Micha1~l Tucker to cut down a Florida runner at the plate in the seventh inning could make up for thn sijoddy defense that resulted in a 5-3 loss to the Marlins in the first game of the NL championship series Tuesday night. 
Greg Maddux hardly looked like a four-time Cy Young Award winner, walking three, throwing 109 pitches in six innings and giving up an Hl31 double to Charles Johnson on an 0-2 pitch. 
But Maddux could sue his teammates for non-support. They committed two costly errors and anotlwr miscue ­by Jones -was seon~d a thrne­run double for Moises .'\lou but should have at least been knocked down bv the third baseman, kenping two of those runners from roming homo. 
The Braves fell into a deep hole in the first inning. With two out and two runtwrs on. Jeff ConinP hit a sharp grounder to first that hand­cuffed McGriff', otw of' Atlanta's shakiest defensive play<'rs with 13 errors during tlw n•gular season. The ball slipped between his lPgs J'or an error and the bases were loaded. 
Alou followed with a two-hop­per down tlH~ third-basn line. Jones. who skipped Monday's workout after fouling a ball ofT his right foot the prPvious day in batting practice, appeared to get a slow break on tlw ball and drifted awav from it ratlwr than directly toward tlw line. 
His glove closed on a handful of air. The ball continued on down the line, Jones' lH~ad sunk and the bases emptied. 
The Turner Field crowd of' 49,244. making morn noise than was heard in jaded Atlanta all year, sudd<~nly fell quiet. With Florida a<'P Knvin 

Marlins take first in Atlanta Cincinnati sends Pete Rose Jr. to minors
National league Championship 
Associated Press month and went 2-for-14 over­all with nine strikeouts in 11 CINCINNATI games.
Atlanta vs. Florida 
Pete Hose Jr.. who struggled Hose Jr. hopes to get an invi­
Florida leads series 1-0 during his first major league tation to spring training, make call-up, was assigned to the an impression and win a major Cincinnati Heds' Triple-A farm league roster spot. Failing that, club Tuesday. he wants to have a good season 
Tuesday, Oct. 7 Hose's spot on the 40-man at Triple-A to position himself roster was taken by right­for another call-up.
Florida 5, Atlanta 3 Florida leads series 1-0 handed reliever Todd Williams, Rose Jr. has not played a full who was promoted from season above Double-A. He was
Wednesday, Oct. 8 

Indianapolis. promoted to Indianapolis last 
Florida (Fernandez 17-12) at Atlanta (Giavine 14-7) Rose Jr. cleared waivers and summer, but soon asked to go was assigned outright to back to Double-A because he Friday, Oct. 10 Indianapolis. wasn't playing much. Rose Jr. The Reds also claimed right­hit .225 in 12 games for
Atlanta (Smaltz 15-12) at Florida (Saunders 4-6) 
handed pitcher Donne Wall off Indianapolis. waivers from the Houston Williams, 28, was signed bySaturday, Oct. 11 Astros. He took thr roster spot the Beds as a free agent in of left-handed reliever Pedro A. January 1997, and spent last
Atlanta (Neagle 20-5) at Florida (Brown 16-8) 
Martinez. who chose to become season in the minors. He was a free agent rather than accept 2-2 with a 5.12 EHA for the Los
Sunday, Oct. 12 

assignment to Indianapolis. Angeles Dodgers in 16 relief Atlanta at Florida if necessary Hose Jr., 28, was called up on appearances in 1995. 
Sept. 1, started at third base Wall. 30. spent most of last Tuesday, Oct. 14 and went 1-for-3 while his season with the Astros' Triple­father, baseball's aU-time hits A club in New Orleans, going 8­Florida at Atlanta if necessary leader, cheered him on from 7 with a 3.85 EHA. lie is 14-14 the stands. lie was used as a with a 5.00 ERA in three
Wednesday, Oct. 15 
Florida at Atlanta if necessary 

13 row n on the mound. tlwy reputed to bn onP of' tlw l)('st knew the home team was in rly-ehasnrs in basnball. Most trouble with a 3-0 deficit. observnrs f'twl hn isn't nvnn the 
Brown wasn't at his IJ!'st bnst cnntnr f'inldnr on the either. The Bravns managnd Braves. pointing to Andruw three runs in six innings against Jones' spectacular play wlwn tlH~ 16-game wimwr. But anoth­Lorton was on thP disablPd list er defensive miscun doonwd at midseason. any hope of a eonwback. WhilP l.of'ton was charged 
In the third, Cary SlwfTiPld with only livn ntTors during tlw led with a drive to tlw J'arthnst snason, there wen~ pl<~nty of' reaches of the ballpark in right­otlwr timns when he fail<~d to center. Well hit. to be sun·. but come up with hits that probably certainly catehabh~ -nspneial­would havn bnen snared nasily ly with Lofton, a J'our-tinw (;old by his pl'l~decessor. Marquis Glove winner, patrolling that Crissom. expanse of grass. But (;rissom's in ClnvPland 
It didn't turn out that wav. now -and thn Bravns find Lofton, apparently worri1~d th;t!. thnmsnlvns down 1-0 to the he would slam into tlw paddPd Marlins. wall. made a shon-arnwd stab at the ball as it approar.hPd. Like Jones, he canw up nmpty. 
Sheffield cruisnd all tlw way to third and wound up smrin~ on Ainu's groundout. Anotlwr unearned run. tlw f'i f'th of' thn night, came home • wlw n Maddux hung an 0-2 pitch to Johnson, who slammed it into the left-field corner to bring home Bobby Bonilla. 
For Lofton, it was anotlwr defensive letdown for a player 

Intel on 




Campus 
You've learned what it takes to compete in school. Now, check out what it's like to compete in global markets and advanced technology arenas. Representatives will soon be on campus to provide information about careers with Intel. As the world's largest chip maker and a world leader in everything from PCs to the Internet, Intel offers a variety ofexciting career opportunities. 
Information Session 
Date: Thursday, October 30, 1997 
Time: 6:00pm 

Place: LaFortune Student Center, Foster Room* 
We will be recruiting for the following group: 
Planning & Logistics 

*Check confirmed room location with Career Services Placement Office on campus. 
See us on the World Wide Web at www.intel.com/intel/oppty 
ln!el Corporation is an equal opportunity employer and fully suppor!s affirmative action pmettccs. Intel also supports a drug-free workplace and requires that all offe,-,; ofemployment be contingent on sa!isfactory pre-employment drug test results. (<,1997. Intel Corporation. 
Wednesday, October 8, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
last five games; I want you to put them away in three. But if it does last five, you've got to be prepared for that."' 
The match lasted 2 hours and 37 minutes, the third longest in the Joyce Center and the fifth longest in Notre Dame history. With the loss, Illinois State falls to 12-6 on the sea­son. 
The Irish were led by a vari­ety of players during the course of the match. The tan­dem of Harris and senior Jaimie Lee had 23 and 22 kills, while Treadwell and Leffers had 20 and 19 kills, respective­ly. 
Both Leffers and Treadwell played decisive roles in the vic­tory, setting many personal records in the process. 
Leffers scored over 15 kills for the only the second time in her career, while keeping a .515 hitting percentage, the fourth-best in Irish history fur a career match. She also had four aces, another career best. Combined, the two middle blockers had 39 kills with only six errors to go along with a 


•
1n our 
9.99 CO only 
TARA MaclEAN Silence 
13.99 co 9_99 Cass. THE DANDY WARHOLS 
The Dandy Warhols Come Down 


9.99co 
8_99 Cass. SNOT Get Some 
11.99co 9_99 Cass. CAROLINE'S SPINE Monsoon 

12.99 CD 9_99 Cass. SIZE 14 
9.99 co 199 Cass. JIMMIE'S CHICKEN SHACK 
Pushing the Salmanilla Envelope 
.434 hitting percentage. 

Overall, the Irish had a .304 hitting percentage and six blocks. The team also scored 11 services aces, which tied the record for a five-game match. 
'This win was crucial for us," Treadwell said. "And it will help us later in the season. We've beat lllinois State, and now we've got to go for the ranked teams." 
After ending their six-match homestand, the Irish will take a two game road trip this weekend against conference opponents Boston College and Providence. 






Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271-0696 
81-8612·107 
Injuries 
continued from page 24 
and just the overall coaching of the team." 
There has been a lot of dis­cussion concerning who should be at the helm of the Irish offense, but for Davie, the ball is still in the hands of Ron Powlus. 
"As far as changing quarter­backs, of just" putting Jarious Jackson in for a series, I don't think is the solution right now," Davie said. 
"Ron Powlus gives us the best chance to win on a game-to­game basis right now. But cer­tainly the idea of playing Jarious has been discussed, and there may be some merit to doing that." 
In fact, according to the coaching staff, Powlus has been one of the squad's top performers. 
"I had all the coaches on offense and defense rate every player," Davie said. "Ron Powlus rates as our No. 1 foot­ball player this year on produc­tivity, competitiveness, attitude -all of those things." 
The Irish are close to having Dan O'Leary, Corey Bennett, and Bobbie Howard back, but 
none will be available for this weekend's contest against Pittsburgh. 
Defensive backs Ivory Covington and A'jani Sanders along with linebacker Ronnie Nicks are listed as 50/50 for this Saturday's game. 
Ty Goode will play if Covington can't go, and Davie said that wide receiver Joey Getherall is at 75 percent. 
"I think the knee (of Getherall) is close to 100 per­cent, but he has an abdominal pull that's been a problem," Davie said. "It was a problem in the Stanford game. That's why he didn't play a whole lot." 
This weekend's game gives the Irish another chance to end their streak and turn their sea­son around. 
"If we can win a game, you'll see all that pent up frustration start to work for you," Davie commented. 
"It's like a dam where that water just keeps backing up and backing up. As soon as that dam breaks it starts going downhill for you." 
"That's all talk and that's all theory," Davie continued. "We have to play better, and we have to coach better to let that dam break and let that momentum start for us." 

.• 

•APARTMENT 
AVAILABILITY IS ON A FIRST COME FIRST SERVE BA.SIS. 

•APPLICATIONS 
CANNOT BE MAILED 


• APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE TURTLE CREEK LEASING OFFICE ONLY. 
• ALSO, CHECK US OUT AT WWW.RENTNET.COM. 
See you soon!!! 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS 
OCTOBER 9TH FEATURING SHOOTING CUPID 
(S PCS. BAND) 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security ­Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00 pm 
Con....~ .........y, Oct. 10 STOMPER BOB With Guest Band From Delaware VELVETTEE (5 pes. Ska Band) Thursday October 16 FLORIDA EVANS SHOW BAND & REVUE 233-8505 


page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 8, 1997 
-..._ 
• SMC VOUEYBJ\U 
Belles hope to rebound from Bethel nightmare 
Saint Mary's tries to bounce back at Lake Forest 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Wrirq 
Preparing for an away batllP against LakP Fornst tonight. Saint l'vlary's lwad volleyball coach Jennil' Joycl' is nncour­aging her team to subdw' tlwir most dreaded foe -them­selves. 
"We have really been our own worst enemy," Joyce admitted after her team was swept Monday in three straight games by Bethel College. "We haven't fulfilled our potential." 
The 8-11 BellP.s haV() been bogged down by inconsistnnt play throughout the Sl'ason. However. tlwy have found unwanted consistency in their habitual tendency of slipping into the underdog position in most of their matehcs. 
"It's been a general rul(' for us." Joyce stated. "WP always play from behind. If' wn (:ould play a game to 30, W(~'tl hav(~ no problem coming back." 
Unfortunately, thn rules of volleyball are not going to change any time soon. and tlw Helles are lnf't searching for su f'­ficient adjustnwnls. 
Passing com1wtn n ry is tlw Belles' most popular solution for defeating a strong Lak(' Forest squad. 
SophomorP outsidn hitter Agnes Bill agrees with lwr teammates. "Passing' will defi­nitely be key. We really Iwnclto focus on our ball handling if we want to win." 
Joyce's other ingrediPnls for suecess include aggr('ssivn attacks. potent serving. and PIT()Ctive swings. 
She is also expecting hnr team leaders to rise to tlw chal­leng~ Lake Fornst off'('rs. With 


• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Women's Instructional Boxing -RecSports will be sponsor­ing a one-day instructional workshop on Saturday, Oct. 11, from 10 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. in the Joyce Center boxing room. Deadline to register is today. For more information call 1-6100 or call Amy at 4­4633. 
Saint Mary's Athletics 

'\ 
There will be an informational track meeting on Thursday, Oct. 9, at 8 p.m. in tho Angela Athletic facility. Please eall the 
Saint Mary's athletic depart­ment if interested but eannot attend. 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute-Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 p.m. on Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. on Sundays in Room 218 Hockne Memorial. All are wel­come. 
Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m. 

a team outnumben~d by fresh­men. Joyc.e demands the sopho­mores join the two S(~niors as seasoned players. 
"I'm looking for vetnran play­ers to step up against Lake Forest," .Joyce said. "The sophomores were tog(1tlwr last year, and I want them to play with junior and snnior caliber." 
The showdown in Chicago is going to be anything but light housework for the Bnlles. 
"We're rnally going to havn to knep the intensity on our side of' the eourt," (>-fool outside hitter Mary Hodovich said. "Lake Forest is a tough team." 
The Belles coach affirmed the tenacity of the upcoming oppo­nent. "They're having a won­derful season. ThPy'rp huge, terrific, and always good." 
Tlwro's no doubt LakP Forest is going to be a high hurdle to leap, but the Br~llos' kn(wpads an~ not knocking logethm· ynt. 
''I'm (~xcited to play Lake Forest," senior eo-captain Betsy 
in Loftus. Call Maureen at x4281 or Stephanie at x2741 with any questions. 
Synchronized Swimming ­Practices are h()ld on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 
p.m. and Sundays from 10 
a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Men's basketball walk-on try­outs -Tryouts will be held on Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 27 & 28, at 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Candidates must attend both sessions. 
Connolly said. "It'll definitely be a ehance to redeem our­snlves." 
If the Belles' strategy goes according to plan, not only will the squad gain confidcnee and ineh up on thn 50 percnnt mark, but they can also chalk u·p a conference win. 
Saint Mary's plans on arriving as a cohesive unit with convic­tion in its talnnt. 
The Belles are careful not to 
entinlly shake off their past problc,ms but use them as a valuable learning lesson. 
'This season has really been a roller coaster," Radovich said. "But I think we're going to be very competitive." 
The Belles are awaiting tonight's ride to discover if the steep inclines, rolling slopes, and unexpP-cted loops of their season will smooth out with a vital win against Lake ForP.st. 

2:30p.m. •Saint Mary's College '''"' M"''' '•"'''~ 
Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Mgf;Q{-',!b / 
1ickct1 on sale at the Saint Mary's Collegdlox Office in / (i,lj, THE AR~ O'Laul!filin Auditorium,open 9a.m.. 5p.m.. Monday-Friday. ~ NOmE DAME, IN 
Credit card orders phone 284-4626. 

Skalcoholics play Thursday at 

10:30 

Wednesday 
staff. 
Specialty Night 


,·:s•gn ups 
for Dart League on '!Wednesday & 'Thursday $1.0 a ~team to sign-up <two peopl~hper team> 
J+l: ..... .. <V'!l'1i!' 
~-­

nesday, October 8, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
DAN SULLIVAN 
SCOTT ADAMS 
:; 
0 
. c 
u 
u I't-'\ SUR.E

HOW DO IT'5 GOOD, 
-' 
0 
. u YOU'LL
<

YOU LIKE 
EXCEPT I'VE 
@ 
G\..u6 
"' 
;. KEEP YOUR.
:; 
"'

TELECOMMUT­
c,\.uG 6 G\.u6 ue1
DEVELOPED 
< 
"' 
0 
G\.0 G\.: ~ DISCIPLINE.

ING 1 t\LICE? 
A. "TENDENCY 
~ 
t-­

c;\.uc, G\.IJG 
o 
u 
G\.uG 
G\.vr:,
.. 
E 
w 




YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ARIES: This is a day to hang on 
tight and endure all the ugliness 

that Mars throws at you. Keep to yourself-trying to be friendly might make enemies. Just be the good soldier today. You'll get a medal for it later. TAURUS: Someone changes your mind by presenting solid evi­dence, and the day just gets better after that. Your new understand­ing is like money in the bank. Finalize travel plans today. GEMINI: A person whom you consider your equal turns into a dictator today. You see the effects of hid Men agendas clashing in the middle distance. Educate your­self about a situation before enter­ing the fray. CANCER: With the Moon in Capricorn, Cancers may find themselves stretched equally between different hemispheres. Tension between your internal and external lives might keep you functioning, but sometimes it has to be resolved. LEO: You learn about another person in the process of teaching him something. Be attentive when filing important documents. Celebrate your own glory private­ly today, or at least only in the presence of those who worship you. VIRGO: You are delighted when you discover a new way to do the same old thing. If you open your­self to the possibility of change, Y?ur day might become immense­ly better. A new face on the scene sets your mind wandering. 
LIBRA: Your own behavior may surprise you today, and it may not be a pleasant surprise. Emotions play unusually strong in rational situations. Avoid any action for which you may later be held accountable. SCORPIO: Expect a day of har­mony and forward motion in the workplace. Work with vigor to level the playing field. Clear com­munication and mutual trust pave the way for something great that may happen soon. SAGITTARIUS: Investigate some basic ways to make your dollar go further. You are surprised to dis­cover how cost-cutting measures can actually improve your quality of life. Charm works extremely well as a bargaining skill. CAPRICORN: The world you have been building yourself, brick by brick, is an excellent thing to behold. You were born to lead, even if you are your only con­stituent. Take a rest today in cele­bration of your vision and labor. AQUARIUS: The ill effects of a past mix-up come back to haunt you. Focus and organization may be especi<:tlly hard today. Surrender to the inevitable, deal with the mess, and come out swinging tomorrow. PISCES:Putting time into long overdue repairs begins to pay off immediately. By helping someone else today, you may also be help­ing yourself. People look to you for guidance, assuming you are qualified to answer their ques­tions. 
Pc•W•erlrul Ries;un'leWritlnt:J: Learn to write a resume abilities to match the include what employ­careEjr objectives and 
im,n•n•hu'"'"' of targeting 
WednE~sdclY, October 6:30 to 8:00 Counselor, 

Join The Observer staff. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Statesman Eban s Part of a wolf pack 10 Smidgen 14 Recline lazily 15 Kin of "shucks" 16 Billiard cushion 11 1934 Mae West song 19 Girl lead-in 20 Excitement 21 Need a doctor's care 22 Elite military unit 23 Account of a trip conducted by Virgil 28 Pretend 30 Sail spar 31 Abstract artist Milton-­
32 Hindu goddess of fortune 36 Romantic exploit 37 Repent 39 Regatta blades 411ngenue 43 Cooper hero 44Show how 
46 Weatherman AI 47 Cop's question to a speeder 
52 Leporine creatures 53 Actress -­Dawn Chong 54 Warriors' org. 57 Defenseman Bobby et al. 58 "Get lost!" 62 Siouan Indian &3 Verdi's "-­Chorus" 

&4 Leslie Caron 
role 65 Sprightly && 60's catchword 
&7 Some are split 
DOWN 

1 Soprano Gluck 2 "Hopalong Cassidy" actor 3 Marriage prerequisite 4 The whole 
shootin' match sill-suited & Scarlett O'Hara 
and others 7--esempre (Italian motto) 8 It goes through withdrawals 9 Mao or Lao follower 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
18"--Boy" (song of 1913) 22 P.M. times -=-+7+:=+==-j-:;...! 24 Trunk I in e 25 Large stain 
~88..:::.+~-. !-:-=:+=:+=+=• -:'-+*+:;...! 26 Country not in Rushdie's travel plans 
27 Advertiser with a swoosh ~7+=+:::-1 28 Tarry 1-:-iHI-:-il-=-i 29 Sunset followers 

33 It exists among thieves 34 The Yukon's --Mountains 3s"Dies--" 37 Brews 38 Suckling spot 
40 Communist land, once: Abbr. 
42 U.S. 1 and others 
43 Companion of Gabriel 
45 Brave 
47 Victory shout 
48 Poker Flat's chronicler 
49 Gaffe 
so Change, as a 
clock 51 Epigrammatic tale ss Composer Bartok 

56 How flawed goods are sold 58 Disparity 59 Singleton 60 Norris Dam's project: Abbr. 61 Mont Blanc, e.g. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 

~ou. can't dz.i.ZJe a. ca.z..... dz.LZJe a. na.iL ..... o'l dz.i.ZJe a. 7oL~ 6a.lL, bu.t ~ou. ca.1t 

page 24 
• VOLlEYBAll 
Irish top Redbirds in five ga01es 
ISU battled back from game point three times,
Redbirds go the distance, but a wide attack by the Redbirds sent it to the fifth and deciding game.
but fall to Irish in fifth Under rally scoring, the Redbirds managed a 4-0 lead before their defense unraveled. Thelongest game in ND history Irish took a 7-3 run and then later extended it to an 11-7 lead. The Redbirds attempted to rally,
By BILL HART Spans Writer 
but a serving error, followed by a crucial ace by junior Lindsay Treadwell, sent the game to Some teams. no matter how pre;:;ared they 
match point. The Irish only needed two may be, always have difficult times with an 
attempts to end the prolonged match. The past six matches between the Irish andopponent for no apparent reason. In last night's 
case. the result was a victory, as Notre Dame's 
Redbirds have gone the full length of five games volleyball team managed to defeat the Jllinois 
and are usually decided by an average of four State Redbirds in an epic five-game match. 15­
points. With the win, Notre Dame improves its 17, 15-7, 11-15.16-14,15-9. 
record to 5-5 against ISU and 10-5 on the sea­After Notre Dame took a quick 6­
,-------------. son. The team also extends its 2 lead in the first game, the 
winning streak to four matches. its Redbirds went on a 7-0 run to take 
longest of the season. "I think we played particularly inthe lead. Each team took the lead 
Notre Dame 3, 

the fourth and fifth games with a take a one-game lead. 
again before ISU pulled away to 
lot of heart," head coach Debbie In the second game, the Irish 
Illinois State 2 

Brown commented. "It was good to took a quick 3-1 lead and extended 
see that our backs were against the it to 10-6 before the Redbirds were 
wall, and we responded very well. ''I'm pretty pleased with how our offense isforced to take a time-out. They then went on a 
5-1 run to tie the match at one apiece. doing, but our defense could use a little work. 
After a relatively lopsided ISU victory in game It's like we concentrated on one aspect of our three, the Redbirds took a quick 5-0 lead in the game, and we feel like the other aspect is falling fourth game before the Irish came back a sec­
behind." ond time. Backed by sophomore Mary Leffers "They're always a tough team to beat," and senior Angie Harris, Notre Dame went on a Treadwell commented on the Redbirds. "It's run to tie it at six and traded leads with the always a long match, and Coach Brown was Redbirds over the course of 10 minutes. 
ready for that. She said, 'I don't want this to Finally, with the game tied 11-11, the Irish scored three straight to give them an advantage. see VOLLEYBALL I page 21 
• 
.. 
'ddl bl . The Observer/John Daily M1 e ocker Mary Letters leads one of the lnsh comebacks en route to a five-game victory. 


The Observer/Rob F1nch 

Fifth-year senior Chris Clevenger's injury forces him to end his career as an Irish offensive tackle. 
Injured Irish look to rebound against Pitt 
flinch in the face of adversity,

Clevenger is the 
to not flinrh in the facP of defpat," Davie commentPd.latest casualty "''m really excitr.d about tlw attitude of this football team.for team playing Tlw team gcws out them and practices on a day-to-day
to end streak basis extrenwly hard." Dospite the 1-4 rPcord,
By JOE CAVATO Davie f'PP!s that pvr,ryonn is
Assistant Spans Editor 
continuing to work togother and not point the finger atWith his team rePling and 

anyonP else. 

with its last win coming right 
"Then~ continues to be a

after registration, head coach great clwmistry betwenn theBob Davie is hoping to stop 
roarhPs and the players."

the bleeding, and there is just Davie continued.
one way to do that. 
"We'vp got a C'l!~ar vision of

"We're at the stage right 
what we ni'Pd to do. Andnow where we need to win a there's a lot of pnoplP working football game and ne('(! to get togPthPr to try to solve the

some momentum going," 
problems."
Davie said. 
One of those problems hasAs the losing skid continues bnPn tlw tPam's failurP toto grow. things have simply come out of the lockPr roombecome tougher on the Irish. 

aftPr halftimP and exc•cutP.

"When you don't win, I Through five) games, Notre
think it's obvious that things Dame has vet to srorn in tlw
get harder week-to-week," 
third quart~r. whil'h has beenDavie said. "I think your prob­devastating.

lems get magnified week-to­
"There's no question thatweek, and things do go 

the first series of the third
against you." 
quarter is very important,

The Notre Dame football much more important thanprogram was hit with some 
the first series of the game."

bad news this past week as 
Davie noted. 

fifth-year offensive tackle The roaching stall has
Chris Clevenger's herniated addressed that issue, but it
disk has ended his career. 
simply comes down to lining"I really feel bad for Chris," up and exncuting.

Davie said. "He's a guy that 
"We talhd about getting

has worked extremely hard. 
the tnam out a little bit earlierHe's been a credit to this pro­

after halftime to let them

gram, and he's a great young warm up a littlr, bit more,"man." 
Davie said. 

Clevenger is just one in a 
"But let's face it, when it

long list of injured Irish, but 
comes down to some pcnaltie~

Davie hopes his team will live 
and it comes down to some

up to the challenge of the situ­linebackers running through,ation presented to it. 
it comes back to execution

"It's a great opportunity for us to show character, to not 

see INJURIES/ page 21 

at Pittsburgh, •• vs. Western Ontario, 
rfl 
October II, 2:30p.m. 

~ a;
~ ~ .. October 10, 7 p.m. 
• MLB playoff updates 
$1'11. 
at Georgetown, 

• Notre Dame Relays,
\~ October 11, 11 a.m. 

October I 0, 4 p.m. ~ see pages 16, 20
..... 
vs. Syracuse, 

Soccer vs. Albion College, 
St~ riJ •SMC volleyball takes on Lake Forest
M October 11,7:30 p.m. 

~ October 11, 12 p.m. 
see page 22 
at Boston College, 

Volleyball at Lake Forest,
s~

October 11, 2 p.m. Today, 7 p.m. 
~ 
····~ 
~ 

-









