
Saturday, August 23 • Vol. XXXI No. 1 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 

~®® il~ AFRESHMAN ODYSSEY 
NO welcomes its 'strongest' crop of frosh 
By HEATHER COCKS News Editor 
Two years ago. the University of Notre Dame lauded its class of 1999 as being the best and the brightest. Last year's freshman dass. with 1.925 members, entered the record books as the largest group ever to nnroll at Notre Dame. 
This year's freshmen, though slightly fewer in number. are con­tinuing the record-breaking trend. DaniP-1 Saracino. assistant provost for enrollment. touted the Class of 2001 as the strongest group acade­mically that Notre Dame has ever welcomed. 
"This is the strongest class in our history," Saracino said. "On aver­age, they were in the top 6.3 per­
The chaos of moving in began Friday as freshmen checked out their new dorm rooms and crammed their stuff inside. 
cent of ~.heir high school graduating dasses. Saracino said the students' mean 

SMC touts freshmen as 'diverse' leaders
SAT score is 1313. higher than the previous record of 1302, which was By LORI ALLEN women will begin to recognize the "This is a very talented and diverse
set by last year's freshmen. It 
Saint Mary's Editor magnitude of their decision. group of incoming freshmen. They are
should be noted that SAT scores 
This year, 334 freshmen women from academically well-suited material for were rn-centered in 1996. resulting Every year a select number of women across the country have decided to Saint Mary's College," said director ofin a trend of higher verbal scores. 
choose to attend the top-ranked shun convention and enroll at an all­admissions Mary Pat Nolan. "They
"Each year. the classes get 
Midwest liberal arts school. and as women's college. Most will discover were very involved leaders in school ­stronger. That makes a Notre Dame Saint Mary's welcomes its first-year they are a match for both each other students to campus this weekend, those and their college. 
see NDI page 4 see LEADERS I page 4 

• CONSTRUCTlON BEAT 

They're 'Knott' women 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Freshmen coming to Notre Dame this weekend will cram most of their worldly belongings into their new dorm rooms. and only months ago, several under­graduates were involved in a similar move. 
In July, summer residents of Knott and Siegfried Halls took pictures off the walls and packed up furniture for a trek across campus to the new McGlinn and Welsh Family Halls on the quickly-expanding West Quad. 
According to project manager Paula Carlaccini. Casteel Construction Co. finished the buildings' structures in mid­summer. Since then, interior furnishing has been the main 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 

concern. 
West Quad is finally complete now that McGlinn and Welsh Halls are
"The bed and desk units have 
open to residents.

bnen put in place as well as the upholstered furniture for social plement the year-old men's ture and dealing with usual stu­space. By July 7. the dorms dorms, Keough and O'Neill dent phone calls occupying 
were available for beneficial Family Halls. The area will also much of her day. She noted that 
occupancy, but now, we're 
soon hold the Eck Center, with getting used to the location has ready to get the students moving new Alumni Association offices been difficult. in," Carlaccini said. 
and a bookstore. "My car still goes to Siegfried
The dorms, each carrying a According to Welsh Hall rector when I drive on campus, but $20 million price tag, can house Sister Maureen Minihane, mov­we're orienting ourselves to 275 residents and will be open­ing has been tough, with setting ing as women's dorms to com-up RA rooms, unpacking furni-see NEW HALLS I page 4 
...A.,.... 
satu1·dav. September 23 
Orientation Progranii ' Joyce Center College Open House (SMC) Angela Atheltic 
Information Fair onOOiversity programs DeBartolo Liturgy (SMC) :!!<~':~::'~ AngelaAtheltic Students meet with hall rectors and staff. Assigned halls 
w~~·c Stepan Fields 
'·· .. '·· ..,_,_.ilL,, .•. ·,::::·•:. 
JACC South Dome JACC South Dome Washington Hall LaFortune Haggar College 
TBA 
•.,.. iili'll LeMans Hall Haggar Parlor Concourse JACC 
. ,Washington Hall 
.I.,{')'\ 
TBA 
p.3 p.5 ~p.:IO, II p.I5 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Saturday, August 23, 1997 
-· ­

•INSIDE COlUMN 
Get involved ... 
the right way 
A quick glance through the campus phone book shows that there are 245 academic, athletic, social action, music and special interest clubs on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
245. 
If you can't find some­thing here that interests you, then you've got the 


Brad Prendergast Editor-in-Chief 
personality of a dead eggplant. 

But finding enough good activities for the students isn't the problem; the problem is finding enough good students for the activities. 
Every year, the sense of excitement sur­rounding Activities Night prompts each stu­dent to sign up for a half dozen clubs. But a half dozen is four or five more than a student can handle. It's a classic case of overcommit­ting oneself in order to feel complete, to feel as if all the important facets of an individual are attended to. 
Most decisions to sign up with a group are motivated by a desire to feel socially responsi­ble. People think, "Hey, Habitat for Humanity is a good cause, so I'll be making the world a better place if I put my name on this sign-up sheet." 
But those sign-up lists-originally the expression of all goodness -quickly become the catalyst that prompts darker feelings to emerge. 
Here's how it works: After Activities Night, the leaders of a student organization rush back to their office, brimming with optimism about the coming year. But a week later, when a club holds its first organizational meeting, the number of people on the list won't match the number of people in atten­dance. 
As the semester progresses, the percent dif­ference between actual and expected atten­dance steadily declines. And the voice-mail messages that a group leaves for the people on its list become annoying for those who have drifted away. I should know. By December of my freshman year, I was prepared to lead a military assault on Amnesty International. 
While upperclassmen have no reason to be so naive about their own interests that they sign up with clubs that they'll soon abandon, you freshmen have an excuse. Your first semester should be spent sampling the differ­ent opportunities that these campuses pre­sent. It's worth it to continue a personal inter­est that began before college, but it's also part of the rollege education process to participate in different experiences. 
Once you've found the one or two activities that you genuinely enjoy, pursue them whole­heartedly. The books and the studying aren't the only part of your education; quite often, they represent only the theoretical half. Extracurricular activities provide the chance to apply the analytical thinking and creativity that's been developed in the classroom. More importantly, they teach you how to work with other people, something that no textbook will ever be able to teach. 
Over the next few years, you'll hear a lot about the Notre Dame family. Your contribu­tion to this community will be grounded in how much you bring to the extracurricular activities in which you participate. In doing your part to advance the development of these campuses, the secret lies not in the quantity of activities on your resume. 
It lies in the quality. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
11"­ 
1'  
(  
\  
Midwest  43  
Northeast  25  
West  12  
Southeast  g  
Southwest  g  
International  2  

)  
)  
'  ( (___  \­ _,­ 
,(  ~  

~,..~~ ~'" 
• NOTRE DAME 0£UTUARIES 
Professor emeritus Sandeen passes away at age 89 
Ernest Sandeen, professor emeritus of English at the University of Notre Dame, died July 12 at his home in South Bend. 
Born in 1908 to a small farming family, he graduated from Knox College in 1931 and received a fellowship from Oxford University. He later taught at Knox College and the University of Iowa, where he received a doctorate 


in English in 1940, with a dis­sertation on Ralph Waldo Emerson. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II, and in 1946 joined the faculty of Notre Dame, where he remained for the next 50 years, leaving only to travel to the University of Aarhus in Denmark as a Fulbright Fellow in 1957. 
Sandeen chaired Notre Dame's English department from 1965-68 and received several honors for his teach­ing, including the College of Arts and Letters' Sheedy Award in 1976. His commitment to the work of begin­ning poets ranked his courses among the most popular in the College of Arts and Letters. He liked to convene his poetry writing classes in the living room of his home, where he and his wife were also the hosts of countless dinners and long evenings, which became legendary among undergraduate English majors and graduate stu­dents. 
He displayed a seemingly limitless and eneouraging patience, according to clumsier practitioners. "You ought to assume that your reader is at least as intelligent as you are," he once teasingly admonished to a student. 
Ilis poems appeared in a wide variety of periodicals including Poetry, the New Yorker, Commonweal, Sewanee Review, The Nation and the Saturday Review, and he published several volumes of them, including "Antennas of Silence," "Children and Older Strangers," and "A Later Day, Another Year." 
Memorials may be made to Notre Dame's Ernest Sandeen Poetry Prize fund or to Hospice of St. Joseph County. 
Former Laetare winner dies at 91 
Former Supreme Court Justice William Brennan, win­ner of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal in 1969, died on July 24 after a long illness. He was 91 years old. The Laetare Medal, established in 1883 at Notre Dame, is commonly regarded as the most prestigious honor available to Ameri.can Catholics. In 1969, Brennan was the only Cath?hc on the court, and he became a controversial fig­ure m the Church because of his support of abortion rights in the 1972 Hoe v. Wade decision. Brennan retired from the Supreme Court in 1990, after having served for 33 years. 
Niemeyer dies after 40 years at ND 
Gerhart Niemeyer, professor emeritus of government and international studies, died on Juno 24 at the age of 
90. Niemeyer joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1955 and taught introductory courses and two advanced 
courses on political theory until he retired. He also wrote many articles in scholarly and popular journals on a variety of topics including cultural history, education and the writings of Eric Voeglin and Alexander Solzhenitsyn. 
In 1941, Niemeyer published a crit­ically acclaimed book, "Law Without 


Force," which became required reading for many international law students. 
Niemeyer was born in 1907 in Essen, Germany. He received a political science degree from Cambridge University in England and a law degree from the German Universities of Munich and Kiel. lie left Germany in 1932 for Spain and finally the United States, where he joined the faculty of Princeton University in 1937. 
In 1950, the U.S. State Department appointed Niemeyer to the planning staff of its Bureau of Unitp,d Nations Affairs. After three years in that position, he became an analyst for the Council on Foreign Relations, a position he held until joining the Notre Dame faculty. Ninmeyer !Jp,came a canon in the Episcopal church in 1987. 


5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

H,+· L 
Saturday 
73,:48
::B: 


Sunday 78 54 Monday ~ 83 64 Tuesday 4,r. 80 66 
~) ,.. 

We~~~~'!~~ 76 66 
_5:-)'' \\ ····-...,! ~; 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Saturday, Aug. 22. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
<0 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
HL EJ~[TIJ EZJL33 8 <];) u u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 

News Derek Betcher Heather Cocks Michelle Krupa Matt Loughran Lab Tech Kevin Dalum Katie Kroener Accent Joey Crawford Graphics Jon King 
Sports Betsy Baker Mike Day Kathleen Lopez Brian Reinthaler Production Mark DeBoy Heather Cocks Michelle Krupa Viewpoint Kelly Brooks 

Vta Associalt!ld Prsss  
Atlanta  8t  64  Detroit  68  53  
Baltimore  78  55  Houston  93  77  
Boston  71  60  Milwaukee  69  56  
Calgary  79  57  Kennebunk, ME  65  56  
Chicago  73  48  Las Vegas  103  79  

New York  80  65  
Phoenix  107  87  
Seattle  75  58  
StLouis  78  60  
WWindsor, NJ 78  59  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
4,Q,~4.QQ ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu·r;ies S~o·~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy ~1a Associated Press GraphicsNel 
---~--,.­

-----~~------~--------...-----.....-------­
Saturday, August 23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
From buildings to sidewalks, statues to shrubbery, most of





If you build it, 
campus was rejuvenated this summer, and some projects still boast the bulldozers and

they will come. • • 
dirt piles to prove it. 
Photos by Kevin Dalum/Text by Michelle Krupa 
• Stadium ready to host a swarm of Yellow Jackets 
A
rguably the most prominent of campus construction projects, the stadium expansion is moving along as scheduled, according to John DeLee, director of Utilities. "Contractor Casteel Construction Co. has finished their work and right now we are focusing on University installations," DeLee said. Included in those installations are furniture, training equipment, NBC and WNDU wiring, telephone cabling, and concession equipment. Workers still need to add grass and sod to the landscaping, bur all trees have been planted. The two-year-old project has increased the searing capacity of the stadium by 21,915 
Tractors dug trenches as part of the new stadium's
sears and added a three-story press box that extends to each of the two 20-yard lines. 
underground sprinkler system. 
• Dirt piles evolve into RecSports 
J
ust north of the Joyce Center, construction continues on the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center set for completion in January 1998. The 70,000 sq. ft. facility will house a 5,000 sq. ft. fit­ness room, a multi-pur­pose court resembling a hockey rink, three maple-floored basketball courts, two rooms with state-of-the-art sound systems and a floor suit­able for dance, self­defense and aerobics classes, and a one-tenth mile elevated track. First priority for use of the building's facilities will be given to non-varsity athletes. According to Paula Carlaccini, project manager for Facilities Engineering, all outside work is finished except for installation of win­dows surrounding the elevated track. On the interior, crews are presen rly working on drywall and mechanical work. 
T
he asphalt walks of
• Walkway refurbishing 
God Quad (left) were 
afoot across ND campus replaced with cement car­riageways and brick paths. The improved sidewalks extend from the Christ statue in all directions ­toward LaFortune Student Center, Sarin Hall, South Quad and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Old trees and overgrown bush­es were removed and new shrubbery will be added in the coming weeks, as will a granite seat wall around the statue. The project, begun in mid-May by the Verkler Construction Co., was undertaken for purely aesthetic improvements. 
Also, the exterior walk­ways of the library outside the building's eaves and overhangs, made of Mankato stone, are being reconstructed to reduce the "hazard for pedestrians and to minimize the potential for injury," according to Dave Woods, director of Support Services. The stone, which was included during the building's erection in the early 1960s, has deteriorat­ed and will be replaced with more sturdy and durable concrete. 
All walkways under the eaves will be paved and thoroughly cleaned. The project began two weeks ago and should be com­plete by Sept. 2. 
According to }3t1tch Llyman, con­for the new seats in the stadium." 
I
n an effort to manage football game 
• Green 
traffic and ensure the safety of struction adniinistrator for Facilities Work was begun on the light, con­means pedestrians and bikers crossing U.S. Engineering, the signal-"will facilitate structed by Trans Tech, on June 20 and go -out 31, a traffic light was installed at the more parking atHoly Cross College completed on Tues., Aug. 19. It 
intersection ofU.S. 31 and the D6 on game days as '\¥e are consrandy includes a push-button activated ofD6 parking lot entrance. looking fOr patkirigtp accommodate pedestrian crossing system. 
~-~-------~-~-~~~-~----­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 23, 1997 
ND 
continued from page 1 
degree even more valuable," he said. Saracino estimated that the elass is more geo­graphically and culturally diverse than in previous years, though he said official statis­tics have yet to be eompiled. 
In addition, the incoming freshmen as a group received more finaneial assistanee than any other class in the history of the University, according to Joseph Russo, director of Finaneial Aid. 
"As much monetary aid was given to the Class of 2001 as was given to the entire under­graduate student body in 1990," Russo said. "It's a dra­matie improvement. The money is reaching mueh fur­ther now." 
He estimated that, sinee 1990, Notre Dame has added 12 new seholarships each year. The endowment has also increased, Russo said, because it appreciates over time, on top of new donations. 
The exact number of incom­ing students will not be known until formal enrollment is eompleted Monday. Saracino said 1, 923 students accepted a spot at Notre Dame, and he anticipates close to a dozen cancellations. That "summer melt" is lower than last year, when 25 cancellations were recorded, Saracino said. He directly related the low rate of attrition to the increase in financial aid given by Notre Dame. 
'Td stake my life on the fact that financial aid is going to keep getting better," he said. "We want to enroll every stu­dent that wants and deserves to be here, no matter how much aid they need." 
Other facts about the fresh­man class: 
• 
The class has a male-to­female ratio of 54 percent to 46 percent. 

• 
Twenty-two percent of the class are "legacies," or rela­tives of alumni. 

• 
Fifty-six percent of the freshman class attended pub­lic high schools. Thirty per­cent are coming from Catholie schools, and 6 pereent attend­ed private schools. 

• 
Forty-three percent of the freshmen hail from the Midwest, 25 percent from the Northeast, 12 percent from the western U.S., 9 percent from the southeastern states, and 9 percent from the Southwest. Two percent of the freshman are international students. 



The Observer open house for freshmen has been moved to Monday. See page 15 for more details. 
New Halls 
continued from page 1 

everything including the little things, like where our recycling bins are," Minihane said. "Overwhelmingly, people are happy to see each other. We're like a family moving to a new neighborhood." 
In an effort to differentiate themselves from the existing Walsh Hall on God Quad, Minihane said the women are stressing the use of the build­ing's full name Welsh Family Hall as they move to establish a distinct spirit in their new home. 
With the closing of Flanner Tower, 500 men will split up and inhabit the recently-vacated Knott and Siegfried llalls, and changes have been made to the interiors to accommodate the new residents. 
"We repainted, recarpeted, and changed the bathrooms, putting urinals in the bathtub areas. We have also made some ADA [Americans with Disabilities Act] changes, like making some of the rooms more handicap-accessible," Carlaccini said. 
Brother Jerome Meyer, the new rector of Knott Hall, noted that the former men of Planner are disappointed to have left the tower but are hopeful for the future. 
"They miss Planner's spirit, but look forward to the challenge of creating a new spirit. It's almost like they are creating a new dorm, but they're very aware of who was here last year." 

Leaders 
continued from page 1 

from community service to student body presi­dents. Diverse leadership is a common thread among this group." 
Proof of the high quality of the incoming class lies in the statistics, according to the admission office. Resulting from last year's premiere of the Alumna Endorsed Application, where alumnae are encouraged to seek out and sponsor a poten­tial applicant, 19 percent of the freshman class are alumnae connected. 
Broken down geographically, the Class of 2001 hails from 32 states and three foreign eountries; China, Guatemala, and Panama. Seventy-six per­cent of the class hails from the Midwest; seven percent is from thn South; six percent is from the middle states; five percent is from the West; four percent is from the Southwest; and two percent hails from New England. 
A large majority of the freshman class was in the top 20 percent of their graduating classes or better, with an average grade point average of 3.57. 
The highest enrollment for the past 10 yt>ars has consistently been in the 13-state region spanning from the Dakotas to West Virginia. 
Students Can Use the Internet For: 
• 
Fast & Easy Access To Notre Dame Accounts 

• 
Job Hunting 

• 
Research 

• 
Entertainment 



Notre Dame Students! 
Join the Internet with CIOE as a student, and get Unlimited, Uncensored 24-hr. access for only $15 per month! As a member of CIOE, you can enjoy: 
• 
24-Hr. Technical Support 

• 
Fast 33.6K Connection 

• 
Private e-mail Account(s) 

• 
5MB Storage for Personal Web Pages 

• 
Web Design & Hosting 





CIIE 
hMA\CA DHA\\A 
: FEI\1\J'i<SING 

T~\NlVAD 1~\P0LI ~reeL ~ANP' 
&JVN, A\1Gv&7T cA, tqqr ~, 11 ?.M. LAK~ MA~\AN DAINT MA%1'& C0'LL8Ge 


Saturday, August 23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
The Huddle convenience store gets a face-lift 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
The days of piling quarter­dogs onto a tray moments after midnight, squished in between the cappuccino machine and a grocery aisle in the dimly lit Little Store in The Huddle, have come to an end. 
On Monday, a completely ren­ovated Huddle Mart opened in the southeast corner of LaFortune's first floor. The $200,000 project has more than tripled the size of the store to 1,900 sq. ft. and will allow for amenities impossible in the old location. 


"We just needed to have a big­ger store," said Jim LaBella, operations manager for the pro­ject. "The concept was to keep the store uncluttered with a clean, crisp look to it. We have a lot of room to expand for the future, too." 
LaBella, who lobbied for the project for the past four years, noted that more space has allowed for a hot deli counter, walk-in freezers, a candy wall, and expanded floor space. He said that plans also call for a hot nacho bar, full ice cream shoppe, another ice cream freezer, and 25-cent hot dogs and 50-cent tacos from 10 p.m. until3 a.m. 
An expanded line of school supplies and personal care items will also be available. 
Vendors anticipate benefits as well because more of their prod­ucts will be visibly available to 

Not these prices. 
CLASSIC ROCK All product shown at NEW WAVE Various Artists everyday low price. Various Artists 

Store Hours: Mon-Sat: 11Jam-11Jpm; Sun 11 am-7pm Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271-0696 
81-8511-087 
customers, according to Michael Thomas, Coca-Cola's district sales manager. 
"The more you have on display, the more you're going to sell," he said. "With the new Huddle Mart, we have three times as much stuff on the floor. Shopability is what people look for, and this place defi­nitely has that." 
Six hundred sq. ft., roughly one-third of seating eliminated by the Huddle Mart's construction, will be relocated to The Little Store's former loca­tion. 1t is presently being painted and carpeted. LaBella said 

that discussions have The Observer/Kevin Dalum begun with SUB The new Huddle Mart features a Wall of regarding the reloca-Candy, one of the most noticeable additions. 
tion of Acoustic Cafe but no "We saved at least $40,000 by decision has been reached. not hiring a designing consul-
The Food Services-funded tant for the project," he said. "It project was a creative conglom-was a lot of fun to put together eration of University officials. and we hope students and facul­According to LaBella, a large ty will like it." amount of money was saved The new store will be open since no outside contracting was from 7 a.m.-3 a.m. daily during necessary for the store's design. the academic year. 

TION FAIR 


Atrxa
A 

~a£oJJ 
SPECIAL C) 

INVITATION 

Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r-------, r-------, r-------, r-------, r-------, 
:1oo~~H~f,-!! _.J~\i'!! J\~~~! ! -~~~:: -~~(\~: 1f;t,,,~-~ 1 1~G;tit & 1 IG!),lo'\Ctii'&" Srylel 1 !Yfe'tjt\'t:'ut 1 : \") ffyi~ &: : 1-;•Retatl I 1): Style I IOi'reProcessl ll~Style I 1r'£" &S I
I I I I I . I 1 ' 1 I ·Cut ty1e I 
L-------~ L-------~ L-------~ L-------~ L-------~

························$········· 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 

•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
• NEW CLIENTS ONLY • ATRIASALON 
Ad must be presented to receptionist before 

1357 N. Ironwood Drive 
services are peiformed 

South Bend, IN 46615
(Certain restrictions apply) 

Tel. 219-289-5080 
Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires September 30, 1997. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 23, 1997 
Start me up... 
ResNet users surf the Web without hassle of modems 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Students living on campus this fall will be greeted by the long­awaited completion of ResNet. Once activated, ResNet provides students direct Ethernet access to e-mail, the Internet and the University's network software from the convenience of their dorm rooms. 
Twelve months after the first cluster of dorms officially went online, the campus-wide Ethernet connection has reached its final stages. Welsh Hall and McGlinn Hall were activated over the sum­mer and O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences are scheduled to be brought online in the coming weeks. With those moves, Morrissey Hall and Old College will remain the only campus residences still waiting for Ethernet access. 
"The reason it's taken so long is that we've tried to coordinate our wiring installations with campus construction," said Larry Rapagnani, associate provost for Information Technologies. 
"It's been a three-year effort for structural and fiber-optics work. The server and installation work, while equally large, is very much more condensed in the time it takes," Rapagnani explained 
Once a dorm is physically con­nected and switched on, each resi­With 12 months to reflect on its 
partial implementation (North 
Quad went online last August, fol­
lowed by most of South Quad in 
late 1996), directors are more than 
pleased with ResNet. 
"It has been an overwhelming 
success," Rapagnani said. "It 
exceeded our expectations." 
"There have been very few prob­
lems," Information Resource Center 
consultant Chris Kolik said. "The 
small percentage of problems 
we've had were with people with 
unique computer systems." 
Rapagnani noted that new devel­
opments are being planned to 
expand on Ethernet's current offer­
ings. Using recommendations from 
Hall Presidents' Council, OIT is 
installing ResNet jacks in campus 
buildings for use by students study­
ing with laptops. Several jacks are 
online in DeBartolo Hall, 66 will 
soon be made available on the sec­
ond floor of the Hesburgh Library, 
and plans call for more jacks next 
spring in LaFortune Student 
Center. 
Rapagnani also said the OIT is 
devising a new package of services 
which he hopes will be available to 
ResNet users in the near future. 
I 

INTERNA'I'IONAL STLJDY PROGRAMS 
109 llurlcy Bldg. 












dent has direct access to the cam­pus network by using an Ethernet jack instead of a telephone line and modem. 
The benefits from this change in Immediately following the general 4: rmatwn sessiOn, w t approximately 20 minutes, sessions for the
technology are threefold: First, a computer connected to the network 
various programs will be held in the following rooms: with Ethernet runs roughly 350 
London -Arts and Letters times faster than an identical com­
London -Engineering (Summer) Arena puter using a modem. Ethernet also 
London-Engineering (Fall) allows students to simultaneously 
lnnsbruck, Austria Auditorium, Room C14
work on the computer and use the telephone. 
Dublin, Ireland 
Monogram Room A 
Maynooth, Ireland (SMC) capacity, as dial-in flow is limited 
ResNet also increases network 
Angers, France Monogram Room B 
by the size of the OIT modem pool, which contains 128 modems. 
Semester Around the World (SMC) Monogram Room C Resnet operates independently of 
Athens, Greece the phone capacity, allowing 
Cairo, Egypt greater access to the network. 
Jerusalem Auxiliary Gym 3 (B-1) "We're very close to our original 
Nagoya, Japan 
schedule, and our only expectation 
Rome, Italy (SMC) Gate 3, Gym 4 
is that changes this fall will go even more quickly than last year," 
Caribbean Rapagnani said. 
Mexico City, Mexico Morrissey is scheduled for activa-
Monterrey, Mexico Gate 8, Gym 1 
•tion Oct. 27 and Old College is set 
Santiago, Chile 
to go online Jan. 19. 
Toledo, Spain 
Fremantle, Australia Gate 10, Gym 2 


Flower Market 
JOBS AVAILABLE NOW 
NOTRE DAME CATERING




~Your ~:~::ti~name~ ~,\W}JJJ:: 

PAYS $5.95 PER HOUR
1 


PLUS GRATUITY 
Call Toll Free 1-800-365-61 
QUARTERBACK CLUB 
• Close to Campus • Large Selections, Fresh 
LUNCHEON BONUS !!! 
• No Wire Order Charges Flowers, Plants, Balloons, 
COME TO SIGN UP:
• Talk Directly to Delivering Birthday Cakes, Candy, Florist Gourmet Baskets, Stuffed 

SAT. 8/23 & SUN. 8/24 
• Toll Free Animals 


10AM TO 5PM
• Best Prices in Town • Final Baskets 
INFRONT OF NOH
• 
Satisfaction Guaranteed • Get Well Baskets 

• 
All Major Credit Cards • Fruit Baskets 


• Goodie Baskets 
1635 Edison Road, South Bend, IN 46637 219-272-0902 1-800-365-6184 

LJNIVERSI1"'Y OF NOTRE DAME 
Saturday, August 23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
News department story policies and guidelines SMC adds 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer is a daily, student-run newspaper serving both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. The Observer news department uses the following guidelines in its news gathering: 
The Observer news department strives to report on all campus and local events that affect both campuses and the sur­rounding areas. In addition to local news, The Observer uses Associated Press stories and graphics to keep readers informed about national and world events. 
As stated in our editorial policy, "The news is reported as accurately and objec­tively as possible." We realize that the department is comprised of amateur jour­nalists, yet we strive to conduct ourselves as professionals at all times. 
Story ideas come largely from Notre Dame's Department of Public Information and Relations. We also generate our own ideas from advertisements in The Observer, other publications, and campus posters. 
A final and important source of story ideas is the members of the ND/SMC com­munity who call, write, or e-mail The Observer staff regarding events they are planning. We encourage groups to contact us at least one week prior to the event. 
As a rule, we do not run previews of lec­tures that we are planning to cover. We simply do not have the staff or space to run previews of every campus lecture. Exceptions to this rule may be made if a lecture is to be given by a speaker of international or national prominence. 

We suggest, however, that the sponsor­ing group fill out an "Of Interest" form at The Observer by 1 p.m. the day before the event. Another alternative is taking out an advertisement in the paper at our special campus rate. 
With certain events, we only run pre­views. For instance, if a group is sponsor­ing a career day or an off-campus event, we might simply run a story on the fact that the event will happen. We will also run previews if having a reporter cover or attend the event is not feasible. 
We understand that there are times when a preview article is more appropri­ate than an article reporting on the event. This type of decision is made by the news editor. However, we are always to discuss news department coverage of an event, provided a group representative contacts the news editor at least one week prior to the event. 
If you have any additional questions, please contact Heather Cocks, news editor, at 631-5323. 
Questions or comments can also be e­mailed to the news department at Observer.obsnews.1 @nd.edu. 

policies to handbook 
By SARAH CORKREAN Saint Mary's News Editor 
Not only will freshmen and transfers be acquainting them­selves to new surroundings of campus this weekend, retur,ning upperclassmen will be reac­quainting themselves to revised policies in the Saint Mary's stu­dent handbook. 
• Although the few bomb threats last year turned out to be hoaxes, procedures have been established to respond to such incidents for the safety of all members of the Saint Mary's community. In the event a bomb threat is received, stu­dents will be evacuated from all buildings and required to stand at least 100 yards from all build­ings. No one may re-enter the buildings until clearance is given either by Safety and Security or the residence hall director. 
Should it be determined that the individual responsible for the bomb threat is a student, the College will initiate immediate disciplinary action and criminal prosecution will also be a con­sideration. 
• 
Previously an almost hidden resource, the WellnesSMC office will relocate to the basement of Holy Cross Hall, a larger loca­tion, to better serve students. Programs offered this year are geared toward nutrition, fitness, and alcohol and drug awareness education. 

• 
Awareness of sexual harass­ment will be highlighted not only for students and campus employees, but for current undergraduates and College employees. Harassment includes any behavior, physical or verbal, that victimizes an individual or creates a hostile environment. It can include physical force, vio­lence, comments, suggestions, threats, obscene phone calls, abusive language. sexual advances, or any other behavior that may interfere with a per­son's ability to work or to study. 


'The revisions printed in the student handbook this year add more defined guidelines for the community which will hopefully avoid any controversies that occur in the future regarding the issues of harassment and complying with requests from college employees," said LeMans Hall director Jill Aitchison. 
• 
Compliance with requests of college employees will be stressed this year to avoid possi­ble confrontations between stu­dents and employees. It is expected that students will show respect for all College employees and will comply with their rea­sonable requests when they are acting in their official job capac­ity. 

• 
College employees include any student staff member, pro­fessional staff member, faculty, or administrator. 


"I think the revised policies to the handbook this year will close a lot of loopholes that in the past created quite a bit of controver­sy among students," said senior resident assistant Olga Robles. 

an of Pakistan's inde­pend~nce :will take place on Sunday at6 p.m. at 1704 E. ifurtle Creek, apt. #2. For more information on the cele­bration call Noman Sattar at ??774269; 

p-----------------------------------~----------------------------~----------------------~--------------~--------------------------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 

The Viewpoint page: Express yourself 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor......... . .......Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ............... Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .........................Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not neces­sarily chose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  63!-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Informarion  63!-7471  Ad E-Mail  obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

The Viewpoint department provides the opportunity for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities to share their opin­ions and reactions to campus, local, national. and internation­al issues. The Observer wel­comes students. faculty, and alumni to write letters to the editor expressing their opinions. 
The following is the Viewpoint department policy: 
I. All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems or cartoons to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. Individuals not associ­ated with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community are also welcome to submit, but prefer­ence is given to members of the University communities. 
I I • Letters to the editor may not exceed 250 words. The Viewpoint editor may shorten any letter regardless of length or deem it worthy of print in its entirety as a commentary, though the length of the com­mentary may not exceed 550 words. 
I I I • The Viewpoint de­partment reserves the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. The Observer has no obligation to print commentaries submit­ted. Commentaries will not be printed if they are libelous or unintelligible or irrelevant as applied to local, national, or world interest on a particular issue, its extension of existing issues on the Viewpoint pages, 
• DOONESBU!W GARRY TRUDEAU • fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Exhaust the little 
moment. Soon it dies. And be it gash or gold it will not come again in this dis­guise." 
-Gwendolyn Brooks 

and/or its role in fostering spirit­official campaign period has of The Observer. Any further ed and intelligent discussion. A begun for that office. This ban use of these eommentarics with­disclaimer will appear with any on commentaries is to continue out the written consent of The letter deemed highly graphic, until the election for this posi­Observer is prohibited. Non­profane or discriminatory, yet tion has been completed. The profit organizations, those orga­nonetheless relevant. The dis­Observer reserves the right to nizations which have a recip­claimer will appear at the begin­comment on any candidate or rocal-usage agreement and ning of the letter and will alert issue it wishes throughout the those organizations of whieh readers to the serious nature of campaign period. At any time, The Observer is a membor may the piece in question. the editor-in-chief and the View­be granted permission to publish point editor rna~' suspend this commentaries with the permis­artie!e. sion of the editor-in-chief or tho
IV. 
All permission of commentaries the managing submitted to The editor and the Observer must Viewpoint edi­bear the signature tor. of the author. 
X •

V. 
All com­Commentaries mentaries printed which appear in the Viewpoint in the section must be Viewpoint sec­verified before tion may not being printed. have been Authors of all printed previ­columns, letters to ously in other the editor, quotes, newspapers, 
poems and car-.~_._..-7 magazines or toons must be noti­publications. In fied before being exceptions, the published in The author of the 
Observer. previously printed materi­al must give 
legal consent. Exceptions to this

VI • Only those indi­procedure are those organiza­viduals authorized to speak as tions of which The Observer is a representatives for a group will VI I I • Commentaries member, quotations used for be allowed to use the organiza­submitted as letters to the editor commentaries and "Quote of the tion's name. In such cases, the may not exceed three in number day." Syndicated columns also primary author of the commen­from the same individual or or­are excluded from this proce­tary is the individuai(s), and the ganization within the same aca­dure. commentary is, in effect, only demic semester. There is no being co-signed by the organiza­limit to the number of times an tion. individual or organization may X I • Paid employees of 
have their commentaries appear The Observer are not permitted in print as columnists. to have their commentaries ap­VII • No commentaries pear in the Viewpoint section as of any kind will be printed in the letters to the editor. Regular Viewpoint section concerning I X • All material sub­columnists and members of the any candidate for student gov­mitted to the Viewpoint de­Viewpoint staff also are not eli­ernment or hall office once the partment becomes the property gible to have their commen-
Saturday, August 23, 1997 
.-FOR V'\<UNK 
W\'.JtNG. vOlf'.JE 
~N~~ 10UFE~\ND 
~A~... 

taries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. 
X I I • The Viewpoint editor is responsible for editing all Inside Columns. The Inside Column contains views are those of the author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. The Inside Column is not to be used for self or activity promotion. 
XIII • The opinions ex­prossed in the Viewpoint section an~ not necessarily those of thr editorial board. I louse editorials appear in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. Regular colum­nists, those whose eolumns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a reg­ular basis; letters to the editor; poems, quotes and cartoons are eommentaries. Such status is determined by the Viewpoint editor in all ineidenePs except house editorials. 
XIV • This policy must be approved by the editorial board and can be amended by a majority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not cov­ered in this policy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. The proce­dures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint de­partment of The Obsnrver. 
XV. This policy is avail­able to the public during normal business hours and must be prominently displayed in the Viewpoint department of The Observer . 

~------------------------­
ACCENT 

Now what? 
Dear Members of the Class of 2001, 
Undoubtedly each and every one of you has received countless letters that have begun with this greeting or a similar salutation. From people selling everything from computers to laundry ser­vice; to groups and clubs desiring your esteemed membership (who knows, maybe you even received a letter from the illustrious Observer staff) to quite possibly the most anticipated letter of the summer, your living arrangements: the flood of letters seems like enough to make even the most hardened upperclassman's head spin. Sure, it maybe just from pure shock that they received mail from something that they didn't have to buy a subscription to first ... but anyways. 
The letters have stopped and the moment of anticipation has arrived. You will finally get to put a face to your roommate's name, see how big-or small-your room really is and see what life at Notre Dame is really like. All of your questions will be answered. Freshman orientation com­mences. 
For most people, this time represents the first extended stay away from home. It is a time of great uncertainty and fear. Will I fit in? What if there isn't anyone else like me? Are these classes too hard for me? These are common questions that plague everyone's mind as are statements like, "I feel like I am at summer camp and it's time to go home." Freshman orientation is a great way to meet new people and lay these doubts to rest. True, some of the events are oozing with cheesiosity, but make the most of it. You will, after all, only have one Freshman orientation. 
What exactly is there to do in South Bend after the games and the graffiti dances of freshman orientation wind down and classes begin? In addition to visiting local watering holes there is actually a variety of things to do. There are a variety of theatres in the area, including the Snite Museum and Cushing Auditorium on campus. The Snite is an excellent place to see films that perhaps didn't get a great deal of play time at the local cineplex. But if its cineplexes you want, Movies 10 is the place for you. Movies 10 has 10 grand theatres complete with hi-fi sound and very comfortable reclining seats equipped with cup holders. Leg room is extremely ample, how­ever if you arc from the old school of movie viewing and believe that being crunched up in the seat and sticky floors is part of the viewing experience, Town and Country and the University Park theatres are the place for you. 
There are two celebrated miniature golf courses in the area. Putt Putt is the more traditional course with the moving animals and the windmills, while Putters on State Road 31 is more of the kind of course that would be seen on the beach complete with waterfalls and bridges. Putters is also the home of an immaculate driving range and a go-cart track. 
If its action you want, the Laser Tag arena just off campus is the place for you. For those of you who are unfamiliar with Laser Tag, it is fast-actioned Arnold Schwarzeneggar fun without the guts and the gore, and at just a fraction of the price and mortality rate. For 20 minutes partici­pants can shoot at their friends and roommates and alleviate a great deal of the tension associat­ed with everyday life. Calculus class just doesn't seem to matter as you stare down the barrel of a laser gun. 
If you are looking for a nice quiet day, there are a variety of museums in the area, including the South Bend Art Museum and the Snite. Both have highly acclaimed collections and serve as a great escape from the everyday drone of classes. The Studebaker Museum is a great alternative for all those hot-rod fans. 
In addition to the plethora of sporting events, the campus offers a variety of outlets. Each dorm has three or four dances a year. Dances are a great place to let loose and meet some new people. Clubs are also a great way to meet new people with similar interests. 
Life at Notre Dame is very interesting. You hear all these stories about the Notre Dame family. The tendency is to dismiss them until you finally realize that it does exist. There was an article in a magazine a few years ago that I came across as I was trying to figure out what college to go to, and quite frankly Notre Dame wasn't near the top of that list. It told the the story of Notre Dame beyond the football games. It was true celebration of humanity and of the school. A student's mother tragically passed away and the article was a testament to how the other students rallied around him and offered their support. It was touching and such a celebration of the Notre Dame family that I inevitably wanted to be part of it. Now not everyone will experience this degree of family as was apparent in the article, but the possibly is invariably there. 
This wouldn't' be a complete article if the issue of the weather wasn't addressed. The skies are eternally gray in South Bend. It is very cold in the winter and it rains almost every day. Walking to classes will at times be downright painful. But is it worth it to endure this kind of torture. You bet. It can't rain all the time. 
Sincerely, 

Joey Crawford 
Welcome...again 
• EXPERIENCE COUNTS 

What do the upperclassmen have to say about their freshmen orientation? 


"I think the graffiti dance is nothing more than freshmen ego-boosting." 
Steven Gomez Sophomore, Sarin 
"What's your name? Where are you from?" 
Angela Anderson Sophomore, Lyons 




"When does the freshmen dogbook come out?" 
Adam Rieck Junior, Dillon 
"Ten cases of beer, plus one mix tape, plus 150 people in a double equals one fresh­man party!" 
Patrick Coyle Junior, Dillon 



"It looks like a pretty good crowd: lots of parties." 
Sean Ryker Junior, Carroll 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Dear Saint Mary's Women, 

Welcome to campus. I'm not the first to say it. and I won't be the last but welcome to the beginning of the best years of your life. 
You are now a part of an institution rich in tradition and honor, and are entering -with hardly a second to reflect-your college years. 
These are years sure to be filled with memo­ries both good and bad, sacred and scary. You will meet friends who will become family, friends who when you look back on, you will wonder how you ever lived without. 
Ask any upperclasswoman, and she will tell you that she wished she had a few more pic­tures to go along with reliving stories of the past. So before the academic pressures of the semester begin, buy a box or photo album to start storing the memories from football week­ends. hall dances, parties, or simply hanging out with friends. These are the most important things that you will take away with you when you leave the shadow of the bell tower four years from now. 
You won't realize it now, but that extra chap­ter of biology pales in comparison to that late night chat with your first roommates. It's trite, but no one ever graduates and wishes that she had spent more time studying and less time with friends. 
Find the perfect balance. It may take a semester -or two or three -but find a rou­tine that makes you appreciate every moment for what it's worth. Organize your time well, arid you will succeed. 
Most importantly, be your own person. There's only one you. Don't be afraid to speak your. mind; people will respect you more for what you said than what you were afraid to speak. 
Remember that this is your time and place; make it everything you want it to be. I hope that in four years, you too will look back on this chapter in your life and the time spent here, and realize you wouldn't trade it for any­thing in the world. 
Best of luck and enjoy the ride. It goes by faster than you would ever imagine. 
Cordially yours, Lori Allen 
ORIENTATION 
EEKEND'97 

TOBACCO POLICY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE LAUNDRY SERVICE 
In accordance with an administrative Notre Dame's sister school is located ·~ Formerly available only to _ma~es anc directive issued two years ago, directly across South Bend's major . \.,') ·· the campus laundry serv1ce 1s now all buildings on the Notre north-south highway, U.S. 33/Busi­· · • students for a fee. A contract for $ Dame campus are smoke-free in ness 31 (directly behind this panel services can be purchased for $75.( 
their entirety. This ban extends to on map). The schools offer an ex­without the contract, transaction the seating area of Notre Dame change program via which stu­charged to your student account. I~ Stadium. Chewing-tobacco is not dents from both institutions may complete with your account nu~l expressly included among the take advantage of the opportunity Bundled laundry is collected at yc substances prohibited indoors. to study on the neighboring institu­able for you to pick up at the Laundr Ash cans are provided outside most tion's campus. Also, the schools (directly below on map); the schedu buildings for the convenience of smok-cosponsor the crew, downhill skiing, is posted in your dorm. Other sen/ ers. Your cooperation is appreciated. golf, gymnastics, and sailing programs. dry cleaning, tailoring/alterations, 
CAMPUS SECURITY 
For your protection Notre Dame em­ploys a staff of uniformed police officers who provide 24-hour foot and vehicular patrols on the cam­pus property. Additionally, eighteen emergency call boxes are spread across campus;. and more are being added.To contacfthe 
. Security BUilding (directly below on 
· map) from any campus phone, dial 
911. From 8:00 p.m. to 2:30 a.rn. the Safe Walk program provides a free campus escort service; call 634-BLUE. 
COMPUTER-USER CLUSTERS  
To help complete homework Notre Dame features  
over 500 computers distributed among  
several locations. These clusters, which  
support Macintosh and PC platforms,  
are networked to several laser printers  
at each location which output Work at  
no charge. Clusters can be found in  
the following buildings:  
Computer/Math, DeBartolo, Fitzpatrick,  
Hayes-Healy, Hesburgh Library, LaFor­ 
tune, NieuwlandScience, O'Shaugh­ 
.  nessy, and the Business Complex  
STUDENT REGISTER  .  POST OFFICE  
For those of you who are unfamiliar with the· above term (upperclassmen included), it is the official name for what is more routinely and infamously known on campus as the Dogbook. This thin, bound black-and-white volume contains the photograph and brief bio­graphical information each incoming freshman was requested to provide shortly after being admitted. Its reputation is for frequently being . the sole basis for selecting one's date to dormi-Leprecnaun IN •. tory-sponsored theme dances (also known as e DafO.e, · "SYR"s, for which one is "set-up") and formals. Notr  Notre Dame has its own campus Post Office (directly above on map), which features a special mail slot for letters to be post­marked "Notre Da~. IN." All mail not dropped in this slot will be postmarked "South Bend, IN." Be fore­warned: the usual long lines often prevent being helped at the counter in the 15 minutes between back-to-back classes.  As a feature of fts in loco parentis pc enforces restrictions upon the dort hours of guests of the oppositl Beginning at 10:00 a.m. daily ; and ending at midnight on pund through Thursday and 2:00a.m. and Saturday, students enjoy unli tation. Violations of these rules a ered serious, and can result in s dismissal of the offender. Male do fied on this map in blue text, fe  

------------------------------~~­

&~;~~~wiiiLl'a··tjl,l 
ll:lntiti""'tirm labels : "; 
r, are required. '(., ;.. , dorm and avail-'•;\! -~~ Distribution Center 't-~ '\! 
of designated days ·~ \; available include :~ ~ summer storage. \;;, -­
While no intro­r some frequent nd help you ge 
-,-:--w~~ 

Notre Dame visiting __ _
gend•r;• 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
Athorough opport~[lity to explorethe wide range of Ca.mpus orga­nizations occurs Sept. 2 from 7:0()-.9:00 p.m. in the Jpyce Athletic &Convocation Center. Student representatives from the various academic, athletic, media, musical, and political clubs will be stationed at booths arranged for your pe­rusal to answer questions and ­register prospective members. · 
area. ties abound all weekend/This year's homegames are: Sept. 6-vs. Georgia.~n~qh; Sept. 20 vs. Michigan state; Oct. 18 vs. Southern Cal; Oct 25 vs. Boston College; Nov. 1 vs. Navy; 
_Nov. 22 vs.WestX(irgif11a,·,·c·:•::;__________ ..........................:.........,_,_,.•_.:.................c-.................. : ..: .... : ................ ~..... : ................... . 
Students who live in residence halls are automatically charged for 21 meals per week, regardless of how many of these meals are actually eaten. South Dining Hall and North Dining Hall feature different menus and the same hours of operation, which vary during finals and vacation weeks but otherwise are: Breakfast.. ....... 7:00 a.m.-9:15a.m. Continental ...... 9:15 a.m. -10:30 a.m. Lunch•..•"-''"A;1~9;3.0 a.m.-1:30 p.m.
Dinner ............ .4:30p.m.-7:00p.m. Grab 'n' Go ........ 7:00a.m.-7:00p.m. ~~~ 
FOOTBALL TICKETS 
All students are guaranteed the opportunity to purchase one season ticket apiece. The proce­dure is as follows: application cards will be in stu­dent mailslots the week before tickets go on sale. Bring this card with your student ID and cash or check for $90.00 to the Joyce Athletic & Convo­cation Center. Be prepared to wait in a lengthy line; many students camp out overnight. Any person may submit up to four applications provided he or she also furnishes a matching student ID and paymentfor each of the applications. For freshmen, season tickets will be available on Aug 29 from 2:00--7:00. 
ALCOHOL POLICY 
According toduLac: Student Life Poli­cies and Procedures, "students are respon­sible for compliance with Indiana Criminal Law regarding alcohol consumption. The Uni­versity will enter a private residence room for the purpose of enforcing Indiana laws if drinking in ·such a room becomes public in any way." Public is defined as that which extends beyond the privacy of the room. It clarifies: "No alcoholic beverages may be carried in open containers in the corridors or any other public area of the residence halls such as lounges or lobbies." So keep it in your room. 
TIME ZONE 
Twice annually, when America ad­justs its clocks for Daylight Savings, Arizona, Hawaii, and regions of In­diana do not change; Notre Dame is located in such a region. South Bend keeps its clocks set to Eastern StandardTime year­round. Therefore, from spring through fall it is the same hour of the day here as in Chicago, where­as from fall through spring it is the same hour of the day here as in Detroit. 
___ .. __ . __---.---· · 
_,_,,­

-
;; 
page 12 as third on the depth chart behind junior Autry Denson and 

FreshiDen 

senior Clement Stokes but is expected to give both upper­
continued from page 20 

classmen a run for their money in a more precocious fashion at the tailback position. than running back Tony Driver. "Tony Driver is really a fine 
The 6-foot-2, 201-pound All­running back-," Davie said of the American from Louisville was freshman. "He's going to push the first freshman on the team Autry Denson and Clement to have the black stripe Stokes. He's a player." 
removed from his helmet, a Joining Driver with a gold hel­long-standing Irish tradition met in the first week of practice that marks the rookies until was 5-foot-7 receiver Joey they are able to distinguish Getherall. Like Driver, Getherall themselves in practice. has managed to amaze both 
After less than a week of coaches and teammates with practice, Driver's blocking abili­his handling of the abrupt tran­
ty on many of the veteran line­sition into college football. espe­backers impressed both the cially after burning the co-cap­coaching staff and the upper­tain Rossum a few times in 
classmen, thus earning him the practice. untarnished gold helmet from Although Rossum chuckled at Davie. Driver is currently listed the insinuation, claiming it was 
Kevin Dansby kB; oti~i.i21 0·· 
? 

Birmingham, AL 4.51n 40 yd AnthonyDenman
ABIES 
• Rusk. TX 

Tony Driver his incoming Louisville, KY lass features Joey Getherall
LaPeunte, CA 
ve of The Jabari Holloway I!RiiDiliMing News• Tyrone, GA 100 players Hugh Holmes 
Kissimmee, FL 
Grant Irons 
The Woodlands, TX 
Ronald Israel 
Haddon Heights, NJ 
John Jordan 
Brooklyn, NY 
Zak Kustok 
Orland Park, IL 
Darcey Levy 
Montbello, CO
-
Jason Murra1r•.• } mt FiB:;il!G~ffim·i:::laa:u:::::I::I:I''Ii,il',:'!.'.ii.t•l 
Belle Vernon, 
Cooper Rego 
Montvale, NJ 
Casey Robin 
Covington, l.:A 
John Teasdale 
Kansas City, MO 
Justin Smith 
St. Petersburg, FL 
Kurt Voll ers .·::··:·;lli:·:l·'':l..li~~::• ,W;1BiT1!.:26SI!1 ~··:·.'::l!ii!i':'l 
Anaheim, CA 
Brock Williams 
Hammond, LA 
Wisne 
OK 


The Observerrrom Roland 

The Observer· SPORTS 
before they had pads on, he did give the freshman credit. 
"He did catch a pass on me and may have caught two," Rossum commented. "He's a good receiver." 
Getherall has already moved up to the No. 2 spot on the depth chart, trailing only senior Malcolm Johnson at split end. He looks to be a sure bet as a member of a five-man receiving core that includes Johnson, junior Bobby Brown, sophomore Raki Nelson, and possibly Rossum, who is still being looked to for big-play potential on both sides of the ball. 
Another freshman receiver making an early impression is 6-foot-2, 195-pound Darcy Levy, but he is also a candidate for the backfield. 
"I said before we started camp that our receivers would be better than what people give them credit for." Davie said. "Our numbers are solidified with Joey Getherall and Darcy Levy. So we're pleased with them as a group." 
In addition to Driver and Getherall, two other freshmen earned the right to take the stripe off of their helmets: tight end Jabari Holloway and line­backer Anthony Denman. The 6-foot-3, 236-pound Holloway has surprised none with both his size and talent, but his adaptability to the Irish system will most likely earn him a spot in the offense. The position of tight end has been a question mark for the Irish, especially with the departure of John Cerasani, but Holloway looks like a likely candidate to back up sophomore Dan O'Leary. 
"Jabari has been consistent from day one," Davie said. "He looks like he's ready to emerge. lie's had an excellent training camp." 
Denman provided a bit of sur­prise for the coaching staff with his early emergence as a stand­out. Although he entered camp as one of the highly-touted All­Americans, it appeared as though he could be lost in the shuffle of the running backs. After beginning practice as a running back, he was quickly handed over to linebacker coach Kirk Doll to begin work­ing out with the defense. Denman is listed as No. 2 on the depth chart and earned the 
Saturday, August 23, 1997 
in the holes on defense. 
Overall. the strength of the freshman class, like that of the team as a whole. lies in the offense, especially in the back­field. Cooper Rego, who stands 5-foot-9, 185-pounds, has also shown that he has the ability and drive to make his way into the Irish offense this season. The Heebok and Parade All­American has awed his team­mates with his slashing ability and his speed off the snap. 
The one thing that all 19 freshmen have in common, however, is the desire to take their potential off of the practice field and onto the playing field to prove that all that has been hyped about the class of 2001 is true. They will have that oppor­tunity on Sept. 6, when they suit up in the blue and the gold for the first time against Georgia Tech. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Freshman Ron Israel (37) receives advice from veteran Kory Minor. 
removal of his stripe for his ability to handle the veteran running backs. 
"He made a hit on [fullback Joey] Goodspeed at the goal line that we think is worthy of removing his stripe," Davie said. 
With the graduation of Bert Berry, Kinnon Tatum, and Lyron Cobbins, the Irish were left with a major hole in the defense. Despite the return of junior sensation Kory Minor, a three-year starter at linebacker, the Irish need a player like Denman to step up and make an immediate impact on defense. 
"Probably on our football team right now, that [the hole in the defense] is the biggest con­cern, even more so than at tight end," Davie said. 
Kevin Dansby, brother of co­captain Melvin, is another freshmen possibility to help fill 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and ti-om 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classif1eds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

ILOST & FOUND I NICE FURNISHED HOUSE BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­
NORTH OF NO GOOD NEIGH­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 
PERSONAL
BORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS 674-7645. DAC: OK, so fine, it was a long Is it dark out? I really need to get 2773097 shot. I know you told me not to back some sleep. 
A PAIR OF RED PRESCRIPTION SUNGLASSES FOUND IN JULY WHILE WALKING AROUND ST. JOSEPH LAKE ON ND CAMPUS. COME IN TO THE OBSERVER OFFICE AT 314 LAFORTUNE OR CALL 
631-7471 & ASK FOR SHIRLEY. 
WANTED 
RecSports Event Student Supervisors. Please stop by the RecSports Office inside the Joyce Center or contact Jeff Walker or Mark Heitkamp at 631-6100. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
$t95/PERSON 
232-2595 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETIY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths. $70-$90. 
Middlebury. 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 

ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 277-3097 
FOR SALE 
'84 DODGE OMNI , NEW TIRES, BATIERY. BRAKES. $875 OBO. 277-1090 
FOR SALE: A custom crafted, varnished, solid oak-wood FUTON w/ cover. Sits as a couch and folds into a double sized bed. Call Greg Leone @ 272-0915. Priced at $750.00. 
94 Toyota Tercel: 39,000 mi.; 2-door; man. trans.; air bag; Sony casette/radio+4 spkrs. Call Kristi at 271-7624. 
TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO HOME GAMES.272-6551 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE 
232-0058 
CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART. INC. 
BUYING BUYING BUYING B U U Y N.D GA ONLY Y I SEASON TICKETS I N 277-1659 N G BUYING BUYING BUYING 
GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ED BY LOCAL COMPANY PLEASE CALL 273-6929 
Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service. 
Call 234-5650. 
FOR SALE GA TICKETS TO ALL ND HOME AND AWAY GAMES CALL 272-7233 
NO TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 
271-9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
Hey Cavanaugh Hall Freshman! Welcome to N.D. I hope your stay here is devine and if I can be of any assistance to your during the year don't hesitate to call me! Good Luck and have fun!! -Cavanaugh Kerry 
Mary, Heather. and Amanda, Hey chicas! So we need to have a fiesta so people can stay and crash on our fouton! Looking forward to a faboulous year. Love ya all. .. 
Michelle:-) 
Mr. Boubal, How's your class, your own desk, your blackboard? Any Katies in your class I can challenge? Wanna make-WHAT??? 
Krupa 

Mulligan, Hi. How are you? Hope you're not too sick of the Houston crew... I miss you! 
Love. Sculder 
That's the LAST time I offer to give flight information to ANYONE's par­ents. I'm never gonna hear the end of this. 
Don't talk back to your mother. 
YOU GOT THAT CUZ YOU WITH HIM!! 
'm a scat man. 
that horse, but I didn't understand you. Can't put my finger on WHY exactly... I know it has something to do with Baywatch ... --HAC 
Brad, they are NOT obscene. OBSCURE, maybe, but not obscene. 
Welease... Wodewick! 
Weleas... Weger! 
Welease... Bwian! 
I'm Brian of Nazareth, and so's my wife! 
I'm sorry Lorie. It"s Michelle's fault. I asked her to put them in the com­puter and she put them in for Tuesday. It's not my fault. Blame her. I'm a nice honest person. She's evil and coniving. 
Mike's come to crack the whip. 
All hail the mighty penguin! The speedbump has returned! see you at dinner. --Slim 
Mark is a real pain because he doesn't do any real work, all he does is ask people to write classi­fieds. 
Look everybody --it"s Don Hoe! Oh wait, that's just Day. 
Mark DeBoy is my hero 

WWOOC. Way out of control Oh, Billie ... What"re you-nuts? 
----------If If you feel you're qualified to make the "marshal" list. please contact Patricia @ 5213 . . all applicants will be considered. 
He's my hero too! And mine. Mine too. He should be everyone's hero. He IS everyone's hero! I just want to sleep. 
Mark DeBoy is his own hero. Ask not what your country can do for you, 
ask what you can do tor the Observer. Joey Crawford would much rather 
express himself in his own fashion. 
The guy in the ugly shirt is being a real hypocrite. Put up or shut up. There goes Joey's mouth. Oh no, 
not again. The end. 


Saturday, August 23, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 

· za ­
l rge Pt'Z. 
. "\ a p\z:z.aS .. o·z.zaS 
. 2 Lar9~ cneese r' OE~l #2 . . 2 \'J\edtUOl oE~l #3 ... 
upbeat and actually looking for­and Parseghian. Indeed, Lou ward to going to practice. And Holtz is the essence of Notre
2001 
at the same time, the intensity Dame football. seems to be every bit as high as But it was time for a change.
continued from page 20 
under the more dictatorial Lou Over the last three years, the bright, young leader with the Holtz. program has seemed to be charisma and personality that That's not to say that Holtz stuck in the mud and has 
should create an attitude that will not be missed in these watched rivals pass it by. While has been missing in recent parts. The legend resurrected Holtz was still the master moti­years. the Irish football program while vator, in other areas he was a 
Already, players have talked carving out his place in NO his­dinosaur in a constantly chang­about being more relaxed, tory alongside Rockne, Leahy, ing world. 
Ducks, Rabbits~rechauns 
Expenence the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesftom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 1/4 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 


Come visit us at ~:~~"""' 
North Shore Club ~~,~) 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002 • 800-404-4275 
FULBRIGHT C01MPETITlON 
1998-99 Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 28 -7:00 p.m. 126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
He never lost the respect of his players, but he may have lost the ability to relate to them. Practices were tense, and the players were tight. On the field, Holtz struggled to find an offense to match his personnel, and the Irish developed a pen­chant for failing to make the big play. 
Davie has the chance to change all that. 
With his first recruiting class, Davie has made strides in putting his stamp on the Irish. In past years under Holtz, teams like Ohio State and Florida State exploited Notre Dame's lack of speed and ath­leticism. 
With freshmen like Tony Driver, Joey Getherall, Ron Israel, and Cooper Rego, the Irish have addressed their weakness while adding a little spice to Notre Dame football in the process. 

Davie and the Irish could not have written a better script, launching the new regime in the recently completed Notre Dame Stadium. After two years of con­struction, the addition to the stadium is set to be unveiled Sept. 6 against Georgia Tech. 
While it will always be the House that Rockne Built, Davie looks forward to the chance of putting his name on the addi­tion. 
It is certainly possible. 
For the first time in years. an aura of excitement permeates the land of the Golden Dome. It is something that should not be taken for granted and should be soaked in to its fullest. With so much going on and with so much excitement in the air, times could not be better for Notre Dame football or for the University. 
Now, it's up to the Class of 2001 to take advantage of it. 
... 


page 14 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 20 
rent players for a spot in the starting lineup. 
The freshman class hails from various parts of the country, and freshman Anne Makinen comes from Helsinki, Finland. Makinen has extensive international experience, having played in 40 games. She joined the Finnish national team at 16. Just one year later. Makinen was named Finnish Player of the Year. She will make an immediate impact in the Irish midfield with her excellent playmaking abilities. 
Also expected to have an instant impact will be fresh­man Meotis Erikson. In 1996, she was named National Soccer Coaches Association of America National School Player of the Year. She was also a three-time All­American. Erikson will join sophomore Jenny Streiffer and junior Monica Gerardo up front. Like her fellow teammates, Erikson is a skilled scorer who performs well with her back to the goal. 
Freshman Monica Gonzalez also is expected to play up front. She is a natural goal scorer who excels in the air. Back in 1995, Gonzalez led her club team Dallas Sting to the under-16 national cham­pionship. 
On the defensive end, fresh­man Kelly Lindsey is expect­ed to solidify the back line. Her speed and agility make 

... 
her one of the top freshman defenders. In high school, Lindsey was a three-sport standout in cross-country, basketball and soccer. She 
earned four letters in all three of the sports. She was also selected to the Parade high school All-America list. 
Rounding out the freshman roster are Kerri Bakker, Kristin Danielson, Lindsay Goodwin, Caroline Marino, Katie Miller, Stacey Tullock, and Liz Zanoni. 
With the loss of many key seniors, some may think that the Irish might be out of con­tention for the title. That is anything but true. Notre Dame is currently ranked second, trailing only North Carolina. Barring any unfore­seen setbacks, the battle for 
•CARPET •VINYL 
•WOOD 

•CERAMIC 
•AREA RUGS 

Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka 
OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 
The Observer· SPORTS the top spot will come early this year, -Sept. 19 at the Adidas Lady Footlocker Classic at Alumni Field. According to the preseason coaches' poll, the Irish received the maximum points and are predicted to capture the Big East title again this year. Tomorrow at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field, the freshmen will make their debut on the field against Missouri in an exhibition game. The first official game of the season will be , Aug. 29 at Alumni Field against Big East rival St. John's. 
OUR ALREADY REDUCED PRICES 
277-9711 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
The women's soccer team will dress 11 new freshmen this season. 
SAVINGS UP TO 
50% 

FF REG. PRICES 
Douglas Road east to Grape, tum right (south) onto Grape Road, 1/2 mile on left at stoplight, tum right for the best deals on carpet. 
MON.-FRI 9:00-8:30 SAT. 9:00-5:30 
SUN. 1:00-5:30 


We accept Credit Cards 
Mastercard American Express Visa Discover 
Saturday, August 23, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


The Observer welcomes 

®®il 
at our open house on Monday, August 25 from 3:30p.m. to 5:00p.m. in 314 LaFortune. The Observer is currently seeking students to fill the foll 
positions and is anxious to have freshman join our team. Come and see what we're all about or give us a call with any questions. 



Heather Cocks Joey Crawford 
News Editor • 631-5323 Accent Editor • 631-4540 News Copy Editors Assistant Accent Editors Writers Copy Editors 
Literary Critics Music Critics Movie Critics 

Katie Kroener 
Photographers

Photo Editor • 631-5323 
Writers, Writers, Writers Photographers 

Lori Allen

Lab technicians 
Saint Mary's Editor • 631-4540 Assistant Editors Writers
Mike Day 
Photographers

Sports Editor • 631-4543 
Day Editors 

Copy Editors Writers 
Paul Bohensky

Production Assistants for publication of the Irish EXTRA Football pullout Illustrations Editor • 631-4540 
Illustrators 

Kelly Brooks Viewpoint Editor • 631-5303 Jed Peters 
Copy Editors 
Advertising Manager • 631-6900 
Typists Advertising Account Executives 
Mike Brouillet 
Jenn Breslow 

Systems Manager • 631-8839 
Ad Design Manager • 631-8840 
Networking Managers ad designers -any students with Web Managers publications experience in graphicsMacintosh Specialists and scanning 
Jon King Graphics Editor • 631-8767 Mark DeBoy students experienced with computer Production Manager • 631-5 graphics and scanning utilities Production Assistants 
for general information, contact Jamie Heisler or Dan Cichalski 631-4541" 
-
• 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 23, 1997 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame ranks third among the nation's Division I-A colleges and univer­sities in the cumulative gradua­tion rate of all student-athletes and is No. 1 in women's sports, according to an annual report compiled by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. 
The 1997 NCAA Graduation­Rates Report, the seventh such survey issued by the association, covers students who enrolled between 1987 and 1990 at 306 Division I institutions. NCAA graduation rates are based on the comparison of the number of those who graduated within six years. The report regards stu­dents who leave or transfer, regardless of academic standing, 

r----------------,
I ~q.-:;:1_~ I 
I :,..,. I I I 
I"INDULGE -YOU DESERVE IT" I 
A FULL SERVICE SALON 
YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
Hair • Skin • Nails • Tanning A Total Mini Spa 
15°/o student discount with student I.D. 
~ Only minutes from campus 
-
~ 1 coupon per visit (not valid with any other offers) 

272-0312. 272-8471 
Next to Marco's Pizza closed Mondays 
as nongraduates. Among Notre Dame student-athletes who com­plete their eligibility at the University, 99 percent earn a degree. 
Based upon the NCAA's prima­ry standard, Notre Dame gradu­ated 87 percent of its student­athletes, trailing only Duke University at 91 percent and Boston College at 88 percent. The national average was 59 percent. 
Notre Dame graduated 97 per­cent of women competing in var­sity athletics at the University, tops among the 110 Division 1-A schools. The 84-percent gradua­tion rate of male student-ath­letes ranks third nationally. 
Fighting Irish football players graduate at a 77 percent rate, seventh nationally, and 84 per­
cent of Notre Dame men's bas­ketball players graduate, third 
highest  in  the  Big  East  
Conference.  
Notre  Dame's  87-percent  

graduation rate is first among the top 20 universities in the 1997 Sears Directors Cup rank­ings of all-around athletic excel­lence, demonstrating that acade­mic and athletic success need not be mutually exclusive. 
Among the general student body, Notre Dame's graduation rate of 94 percent trails only Harvard, Princeton, and Yale. 
WASHINGlDN HALL--Bruce Auerbach, 
Director of Theatre of Notre Dame Communica­
tion and Theatre, has announced that the annual 
reception for students interested in theatre will be 
held Wednesday, August 27, at 6:00P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in acting, directing, sets, costumes, lights, management, or 
theatre as a major are encouraged to attend. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students-­majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activities is available including: acting, scenic design and constuction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage manage­ment. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. If you have a willingness to learn, you are qualified. 
Becoming involved in theatre is an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 
This season, the Department of Communication 
and Theatre (COTH) will present a mainstage 
season consisting of five plays as well as many 
other acting and directing projects. Mainstage 
productions this season will be: 
Rosencrantz and GuildensternAre Dead 
The Compleat Works ofWI/m Shkspr (abridged) 
As You Like It 

In addition, COTH will host a residency by AcroRs FRoM THE LoNDoN STAGE sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series, and Father David Ga1rick will stage a reading of his new play The Escape ofKmpotkin. Acting and directing projects are showcased at the end of each semester. All of these projects will need a great amount of student support. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for the first two plays of the season will be held Wednesday, August 27, and Thurs­day, August 28, at 7:00PM. 
If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be involved or have questions about the program, please call Bruce Auerbach at (219) 631-5957. 
------~~------------------------~--------------------~ 

• 
2 Round trip tickets from Continental Airlines 

• 
2 Round trip tickets from Delta Airlines 

• 
1 Round trip ticket from Midwest Express Airlines 

• 
1 Round trip ticket from American Airlines 

• 
1 Round trip ticket from United Airlines 

• 
2 Round trip tickets to Chicago from United Limo 

• 
2 Round trip tickets from Amtrak 


* Some restrictions may apply 
-~-------~ -----~---­
page 17

The Observer· SPORTS 
• VOLLEYBAll 
·­
Freshmen look to set the stage 

Boylan leads effort to fill in the gaps 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Last May, Notre Dame head volleyball coach Debbie Brown graduated one of the finest classes to grace the floor of the Joyce Center. The departure of two-time captain Jenny Birkner and her classmates Jen Rouse, Kristina Ervin, and Jen Briggs leave Brown looking for fresh faces to fill the void. 
Several weeks ago, Brown received some help when the Class of 2001 arrived to Notre Dame. That class of five ath­letes include three players named to Volleyball Magazine's "Fab 50" high school recruits. 


Freshman setter Denise Boylan, outside hitters Christi Girton and Adrienne Shimmel, middle blocker Jo Jameyson, and walk-on Katie Ward join the .Irish this August. 
"I am really pleased with the entire class," Brown said. "There is a great balance of ball control and strong net play." 
According to Brown, the youngsters have not been over­whelmed by the adjustment to play at the college level. 
"Starting with the preseason, I've been happy with how they've done. I think all of them have adapted really well, and none of them are behind. They have been able to get 


No coupon necess;ary_.,A.iilllll• 
Excludes other offers Delivery extra not on campus Limited Time Offer 
BANDs 
UNJ.IMITED 
IIOOKING AGENCY 

219-243-9204 


Free Extras 
Parmesan Cheese Crust•Garlic Butter C Extra Pizza Sauce•Side of Banana Peppers Just Ask 
IPlus Tax Where Applicable. Delivery Extra Off Campus. Excludes Other Offers I 
L----------------------------~ 
right in there and play." 
The atmosphere around the practice gym has been intense as the starting lineup is not set and everyone is looking to make an impression. 
"At this point, we're going to have real good depth," Brown said. "When we scrimmage, it's been really competitive. People are getting better because they're being pushed all the time, not just the freshmen. There's just a really positive atmosphere in the gym." 
The freshman with the most profound high school resume is the 6-foot-2 Boylan. The Lisle, Ill., native was named the 1997 Gatorade National Player of the Year and led her club team to a 100-4 season on its way to the 1997 junior title. Boylan and senior Carey May give Brown two true setters, something that the Irish did not have last year before May was hurt in the preseason. 
"She (Boylan) and Carey are battling for the starting spot,n said Brown. "Having Denise and Carey on opposite sides of the net has made the scrim­mages that much better." 
The most unique thing that Boylan brings is her height at the setter slot. 
"It's very rare to have some­one who is 6-2 as your setter. It's great to have a setter that can block that well. We made some technique changes, and as she gets used to the system, she's going to get better and better." 
The competition for the start­
.. 
ing right-side hitter position, which was filled by Jenny Birkner for the past four years, is the most wide open. Sophomores Emily Schiebout and Mandi Powell, along with freshman Christi Girton, are looking to fill the starting slot. 
"Christi has played on the left side, middle, and right side so we could use her at any of those positions," Brown said. "Emily, Mandi, and Christi are having a pretty good battle for the right side hitter spot.n 
Jo Jameyson out of Alvin, 
Texas is working as a middle 
blocker, and her athleticism 
has impressed the coaching 
staff. 

"Jo is real strong at the net, 
and she is very quick," Brown 
commented. "It's nice to have a 
middle with good lateral speed. 
She is a good all-around play­
er, and she's going to add 
depth." 

With left-side hitter Jaime 
Lee competing at the World 
University Games in Sicily, 
Italy, until early September, 
the starting position for the 
first several matches is open. 
Girton and fellow freshman 
Adrienne Shimmel, from 
Mission Viejo, Calif., will be 
battling for that slot until Lee's 
return. What Shimmel lacks in 
height she makes up for in her 
enthusiasm. 

"Adrienne is 5-10, but she is 
really feisty, energetic and 
vocal," Brown remarked. "She 
brings another dimension. If 
she is not starting, she'll be a 
great person to bring off the 
bench." 

The fifth addition to the Class 
of 2001 is walk-on Katie Ward, 
a 6-foot-1 middle blocker from 
Chicago. 

"She is a very good athlete 
but does not have great volley­
ball skills," Brown said. "It's 
great to have another middle 
blocker in the gym, and I think 
that in time she has the poten­
tial to be really good. I'm glad 
that she's here with us. I think 
that she'll help in the long 
run." 
page 18 
M. Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Dan Storino. The three pure defenders of the bunch are Stephen Maio, Patrick Moss, and Andy Murray. Bob Miske can play either in the middle or up front, while Dustin Pridmore is experienced at the midfield and defensive posi­tions. 
"We've been pleasantly sur­prised by a number of play­ers," said Berticelli of the freshmen. "As a group they have done very well. Steve Maio has been doing excep­tionally well." 
Maio. a native of Ontario and a member of the Canadian Under-20 National Team, has a great deal of game experi­ence which should benefit the Irish this season. Maio was also captain of his high school squad. Sacred Heart Catholic, for four years and was named the MVP following each of those seasons. 
When asked if any of the freshmen were in the running for a starting job, Berticelli indicated that Maio would almost certainly find his way into the lineup before the sea­son is over. 
Some of the other rookies that have impressed the eighth-year Irish coach thus far include McKnight, Howard, Pridmore, and LaRose. 
Berticelli has also been happy about the development of chemistry between the recruits and the veteran play­ers. He acknowledged the benefit of having experienced players who have enjoyed suc­

• 
cess early in their college careers. 
"It is certainly a plus (for the freshmen) to have guys around them who have suc­ceeded in their first year," explained Berticelli. "Credit goes to the upperclassmen. They have been very accom­modating and helpful." 


r~~~~~~~~~~~ Welcome Notre Dame & 
~ Saint Mary's Students 
256-1444 

SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka Hours: 
1213 Linconway West
Mo11.-Sat. 5:00-10:00 p.m. Sun. Closed 

Mishawaka rooms available 

(Francesco wns a chefat ND for 30 years 
.. 
Tickets 
Buy•Seli•Trade
• 

Seasons and Individuals GA's only•Confidential 
~­
• ~­
234-5650 
~­

Saturday, August 23, 1997 
~ 'M

~ • ~ en's Soccer Recruits
... 

Recruit Position Ht. Hometown Ben Bayer Def. 5-io Arlington, TX Justin Campbell Mid. 5-10 Westlake Village, CA Griffin Howard Mid. 6-1 San Diego, CA Conor LaRose Mid. 6-1 Claremont, CA Stephen Maio Def. 5-10 Ontario, Canada Reggie McKnight Mid. 6-0 Greenville, SC Bob Miske Mid. 5.;11 El Toro, CA Patrick Moss Def. 6-2 S.J. Capistrano, CA 
. ···:.:~ 

Andy Murray Def. 6-0 Lexington, KY Colin Nash Mid. 5-10 South Orange, NJ Dustin Pridmore Mid. 6-0 Dallas, TX 
Senior Bill Savarino will be looked to as leader for the young Irish soccer team. 
Dan Storino Def. 5-9 Inverness, IL 
• 

~cos 
•

an1gans 
Notre Dame's Only Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
join Notre Dame's only singing and dancing 
ensemble! Shenanigans is the only group 
performing any musical theatre at Notre Dame, 
including an annual Broadway Revue. Shenanigans 
performs before home football games and tours the 
country each spring. The group also performs 
throughout the South Bend community. Be a part 
of one of the most exciting musical groups on 
campus! We are looking for singers, dancers, and 
musicians! 

Tuesday, August 26 Wednesday, August 27 204 O'Shaughnessy 7:00-9:00 p.m. 

***Effective this semester, all student employees must be paid via direct deposit*** 
Sign up in the Joyce Center Field House during Enrollment 
Use an existing checking account (bring a deposit slip from your existing account), OR 
Open a new account with a local financial institution at enrollment (bring your driver's license & Social Security number) 
Benefits of Direct Deposit 
..,.. Simplifies the banking process no more trips to pick up checks or long lines at the bank 
Eliminates the risk of lost, forgotten, or stolen checks 
Many banks offer special benefits such as free checking, free checks, etc. to direct deposit participants (check with your bank for details) 
Saturday, August 23, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
-


GLASS TUMBLERS Now 25% off reg. price, styles may vary, Suntone Dual Speaker Model RR2000, 16 oz. Anchor Hocking Tumblers at our not available in all stores. everyday low price of 5 for $1.
telescopic metal antenna. Was $7.99, now sale priced at $3.99 

6 pair package Hanes, cotton blend. Men's overfilled with polyester, fits standard size White Westinghouse 6 in. 2 speed whisper 
cushion crew or wornen's casual crew, your pillow case, our reg. price $7.99, now only quiet operation. Bonus fan, 4 inch clip fan 
choice only 
$4.49 $4.99. free. 
Sale Prices Effective through Saturday, August 30, 1997 
A Kmart is Located Conveniently Near You: 
Kmart arlveo·tised merchandise policy MerchandisP advertised in this circular is either Sale Prieed or at our Everyday Low Price. 420 McKinley 4640 S. Michigan St. 3101 Northview Dr. 
-
ln some cases, we offer Special Buys which are available in limited quantities. Our firm 
intention is to have every advNtised item in stock on our shelves. If an advertised item is Mishawaka, IN South Bend, IN Elkhart, IN 
not available for purchase due to any unforseen reason, Kmart will issue a Rain Check on 
request for the mPrchandist> to he purchased at the advertised price whenever availahlt', or 
will sell you a <·omparable quality item at a comparable price. Merchandise only available 2702 S, 11th St. 4850 Western Ave. 3501 South Main 
in United States stores. Re~ular prict's may vary in some stores due to local 
compt'tition. Salt' offeo·s do not apply to clt'arance merchandise. We reserve NileS, Ml South Bend, IN Elkhart, IN 
tlw o·i~ht to limit Jllll'l'hases to reasonable family quantities. All merchandise 
mhcrtised in this l'ireular is available at your local Kmart or Super Kmart. 
© I')<)7 Kmart ® Corporution 
• 
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Saturday, August 23, 1997 
Freshmen embark on new era for Irish By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor The time has come for the speculation and anticipation to end and for the questions surrounding the future of Notre Dame football to be answered. When the 19 members of the Class of 2001 reported for duty on Aug. 11. they signed up to be the pioneers of a new era of Irish football. Of course, they will be led into the wilderness by the experience of such players as fifth-year quarterback Ron Powlus, fifth-year defensive lineman Melvin Dansby, and senior defensive back Allen Hossum, but this year's freshmen will be the first official class to make their way through the Irish ranks under the tutelage of head coach Bob Davie. Naturally. the Class of 2001 will serve as a barometer for the success of the Davie era, and thus far, after two weeks of pre-season practice, they appear to be handling the pressure quite well. Many of the freshmen have managed to impress both coaches and teammates in the first two weeks. but none see FRESHMEN I page 12  New Beginning • The Observer/Kevin Dalum Head coach Bob Davie and defensive line coach Charlie Strong look on as the Irish prepare for the season.  Opportunities abound for Class of 2001 The Class of 2001 has been given a great opportunity. Now, it is important that it takes the time to fleet n this tremen­d 0 u s opportuni­ty that awaits. A s everyone has come to know, football is Mike Day more than Sports Editor a sport at-------Notrfl Damr,. In fact. it is an institution. Notre Dame football touch­es the liVPs of every student, fan, or alum in a way that cannot begin to be described. It is an integral part of this University and an icon in Irish culture. So given tlw magnitudo of football at Notre Dame. LimPs could not be more exciting. New playr,rs -a new coaching staff-a now stadi­um. A new era of football is being launched at Notre Dame, and the Class of 2001 has come aboard just in time to be part of it. First, there is new head coach Bob Davie. lie is a see 200I I page 13  

• WOMHlS SOCCER • Mr:r.J'sSoccER 
Irish survive off-season overhaul Eager eleven hope 
Notre Dame 

to make a difference
works to recover 

squad. Seven starters are
Freshmen look 

returning and the four remain­ing positions could be won byBy KATHLEEN LOPEZ to continue last sophomores and juniors. 
from graduation 
Assistant Sports Editor 

If the recent past is any sign 
of things to come, though, this
year's success 
This year's freshman class 

year's recruits should be able 
has big shoes to fill. The By BRIAN REINTHALER 
to make an impact. Bcrticelli women's soccer team is look­Assistant Sports Ediror has proven that he will field ing to fill some gaps in the the best possible team, regard­
lineup with the graduation of There appears to be a youth less of seniority. 
several seniors this past year, movement underway in the Junior captain Matt .Johnson 
including the Hermann Trophy Irish men's soccer program. 
and goaltender Greg Velho 
winner. National Soccer With the graduation of cap­
both started as freshmen, as Coaches Player of the Year, tains Tony Capasso, and Peter
• did sophomores Alan Woods 
two Academic All-Americans, Ganster, along with Brian 
and Matt McNew. Forwards 
and several on the All-Big East Engesser and midfield regu­
Andrew Aris and Ryan Cox 
team. lars Konstantin Koloskov and also found themselves in the 
The loss of Kate Fisher, Amy Chris Mathis, Notre Dame 
starting lineup for certain 
VanLaecke, Jen Renola, and finds itself searching for the games in 1996. 
Cindy Daws leaves the Irish next generation of team lead­The class of 2001, elr,venstarting lineup with vacancies ers. 
players deep, is the largest 
on all parts of the field. Fortunately for head coach freshman group that Berticelli The goalkeeping chores will Mike Berticelli, this season's has had for some time. Six of 
be inherited by sophomore roster is stacked with talented the first-year players are mid­
LaKeeysia Beene, but other and experienced underclass­fielders. They include Justin 
positions will be up for grabs. men. In fact, due to the suc­
Campbell, Griffin Howard,There are 11 new freshmen cess of freshmen in the past Conor LaRose, Reggie
trying to contend with the cur-two seasons, the classes of 
McKnight, Colin Nash. and 
1999 and 2000 appear to form


see W. SOCCER I page 14 Sophomores Kara Brown (left) and Jen Grubb do battle in practice. the foundation of this year's 
seeM. SOCCER I page 18 
-
vs. Missouri, vs.Louisville, 
• Five rookies added to volleyball roster 
Tomorrow, I p.m. 
August 29, 7:30 p.m. see page 17 
• ND athlete graduation rates top vs. Georgia Tech, 
#' at Marquette, 
~·::~, rankings
September 6, I :30 p.m. 
August 25, 6 p.m. see page 16 

• 









