
Monday, February 3, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 82 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Art department wants stolen arrow returned 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Associate News Editor 
The landmark red and blue modern sculpture located between O'Shaughnessy Hall and Fitzpatrick Hall was van­dalized the weekend of Jan. 25. 
The vandalism entailed the theft of the rotating arrow originally located atop the sculpture. "It's a pretty hard piece to get off so they must have really struggled to get it off," said Father Austin Collins, associate profes­sor of art. 
The artwork, titled "Turns About," is on loan to the University from the artist John Mischler, a professor from Goshen College. If the stolen portion is not returned, the University will have to reimburse the artist for the refabrication of the piece. 
"We · would really appreciate getting it back so that it can be repaired," said Collins. "Anyone with informa­tion can come speak with me." 
According to Collins, Mischler is a well-respected artist who has pieces in a Chicago gallery. He has commissions from all over the country and just recently completed a commis­

see ART/ page 6 

• SMC Srm.JENT GmtERNMENT ELECTiONS 1997 

Election nears for SMC 
\ 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
They have researched, planned, and brainstormed. Thursday they began cam­paigning, knocking on doors, hanging up posters, and handing out flyers. 
But they have only one last 

chance at the debate Monday night to con­vince voters to elect them to the offices of student body president and vice president. 
"Things have been going really well so far," Board of Governance (BOG) elections · commissioner Emily Miller said. "Everyone has been playing fair and encouraging oth­ers to vote." 
There are three tickets running for office: Meghan McNally (president) and Anne Paren~e (vice-president), Lara Becker (pres­ident) and Jenn Cervantes (vice-president), and Nikki Milos (president) and Lori McKeough (vice-president). 
Running on the platform "Strengthening the Community through Collaborative Leadership for a Promising Future," the McNally ticket focuses on expanding acade­mics, improving campus communication, and supporting campus Community Leadership Teams (COLTS). 
"We have a 90 percent retention rate at Saint Mary's," McNally said. "That means we lose 10 percent of the .freshmen and sophomore classes eacb year. We think that develeping a freshmen seminar program, which 85 percent of other colleges have, will provide better support for freshmen ­support that the three-day freshmen orien­tation program does not give." 
The McNally ticket also wants to develop 
'When image becomes an obsession, it's time to take acloser look!" 
...···········••·•·•··::•Vii!WiiHMillffi•. 
."Slim Hoges;;.'~'-~""""!"'~------­
7 p.fD. Monday~··February 3, 1997 Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's College An award winning thirty minute video by Jean Kilbourne. 
"D
······.. yi~g I~ B':'?"'e~T'r.":'h':"!"'in~""'!!"'5""'~~~""~'~""~"""""'"".......-­
shown ·cahffffuaTI"y beiween 11 a.m. and 6:3op.m. Monday, February 3, 1997 MonJgomery Theater, LaFortune Center, Notre Dame 
.. ft~!!!;!,,,~!!~Q SOI1}~9ne with an eating problem
6:30p.m. Tuesday, February 4, 1997 140 DeBartolo Hall, Notre Dame This panel will feature afemale Notre Dame student recoveringfroman eating disorder, her mother, and a student who has had afriend with an eating disorder.
fl Q~.,,~,~,!l.!l Woman Accept Herself? Part I 
12 p:m. to 1 p.m. Wednesday, February 5, 1997 North Wedge Room, Dining Hall, Saint Mary's College Lunch time discussion featuring apanel of professors. 
HQ!"~"~mJ• Woman Accept Herself? Part II 
12:~0 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. Thursday, February 6, 1997 North Wedge Room, Dining Hall, Saint Mary's College Becky Cook, M.S., R.D., therapist at HOPE Program, Memorial Hospital, discusses healthy eating. 
The Observer/Sue O'Kain 
Look for continuous coverage of Eating Disorders Week in The Observer, beginning Tuesday. 
By ALEX ORR 
News Writer 
February is Black History Month, an event that has its roots in the 1920s when one man sought to correct a perceived deficiency in the general perception of the history of African Americans. 
"If a race has no history, if it has no worth­while tradition, it becomes a negligible factor in the thought of the world ... " 
These are the words of Carter Woodson, the man whose goal it was to bring the rich history of Africans, and the descendants of Africans, for­ward in the development of North America. 
The African Student Association at Notre Dame is a student group whose ideals are very much in line with the thinking of Woodson, according to Guillaume Zanlome, the president of the associa­tion. 
"The African Student Association was founded in 1988. Its goals were to foster the interests at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross of African students. They were also to promote awareness of Africa issues and realities," Zanlome said. 
This "promotion of awareness" is particularly fitting during this month of increased zeal for all things African. 
"The African Student Association does this [promotion] every year through the organization of lectures, films, and panel discussions," explained Zanlome. 
The organization has planned a series of activ­ities for this month, keeping with the theme of describing and discussing those issues affecting modern Africa. 
The first of these activities is a showing of the film "Neria" from Zimbabwe, which Zanlome 
for heritage and rights." The showing will be held on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. Following the showing will be a discussion on the topics in the film by Douglas Agbetsiafa of the Indiana University-South Bend School of Economics, Ann Loux of the English Department at Saint Mary's, and Kagwiria Mbogori of the Center for Civil and Human Rights Law. 
a core requirement that stu­
dents take a women's studies 
course at Saint Mary's. In 
addition, courses of all 
majors would be required to 
address women's issues. 
If elected vice president 
and head of the Student 
Academic Council (SAC). 
Parente intends to earn more student attract:on to the organization. She also would apply more community stan­dards to the SAC. 
"As an education major, I have been out in the commPnity a lot," Parente said. "Therefore I want to hold more possibilities for the students at Saint Mary's to· get involved with the South Bend community." 
McNally is currently the president of the junior class, and Parente is the treasurer. They have worked together on the planning of this year's "Play of the Mind" conference, as well as on the orientation program at Saint Mary's. 
"Some people might be worried that Meghan and I are such good friends," Parente said. "They think that it might cre­ate a problem, but actually we really bal­ance each other out. We possess the ability to listen and implement the needs and dynamics of the student body." 
The Becker .ticket is running on the plat­form "Working Together to Build the Saint Mary's Community." They want to improve diversity on campus with a better Cultural Awareness Week, and a culture-a-month stall news bulletin. 
Also understanding the importance of communication at Saint Mary's, Becker and 
see ELECTION I page 4 
Eating Disorders Awareness Week Black History Month qegins at NO 
Black Histor~ Month
llliiiiililiiliiiiiiBi·::.w;!Jin®:: i {•••·.·.. ·.·•·:~:1. 
• Wednesday, February 5 155 DeBartolo 7 p.m. 
"Neria," a feature film from Zimbabwe. Followed by a panel discussion on women's inheritance rights in Africa. 
•wednesday, February 12 155 DeBartolo 7 p.m. 
"Warrior Marks," the documentary by Pratibha Parmer. Followed by a panel discussion on genital mutit'ation and the sexual blinding of 
women in Africa and Asia. 
• Wednesday, February 19 155 DeBartolo 7p.m. 
"New Gods," the documentary by Ali Mazrui. Folllowed by a panel discussion on the impact of Islam and Christianity on Africa. 
• Thursday, February 20 Hesburgh Center Auditorium 4:15p.m. 
Lecture by Prof. Ann Loux: "My Experience in Cameroon." 
• Wednesday, February 26 155 DeBartolo 7p.m. 
'The Drilling Reid," a documentary. Folllowed by a panel discussion on multinational corporations and environment in Africa. 
said "deals with the struggle of women in Africa .___T-:h_e_s_e-~-or_u_m_s-fo_r_d_i-sc_u_s_si-.o-n_w_I_.ll_b_e-he_l_d_o_n_c_e_~a 
week, beginning this Wednesday and continuing until the end of Black History Month, and will cover a variety of African issues. 
All forums will be held in 155 DeBartolo Hall, excluding the discussion by Ann Loux on Cameroon, which will occur in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 3, 1997 
• INsme Cm.mviN • WOJU.Il AT AGLANCE 


The forgotten holiday 
It is Feb. 3, and I am 
suffering from an acute Heather MacKenzie 
case of post-holiday News Copy Editor 
depression. Yes, I am 
aware that the fruitcake was given away 
weeks ago and that we have not quite 
reached that sappy flower-fest otherwise 
known as Valentine's Day. I also realize that 
the leftovers from Turkey Day have long 
since been frozen for posterity and that the 
Cadbury Bunny has yet to utter a cluck. But, 
dear friends, with the stoke of midnight we 
left behind a momentous occasion for yet 
another year. I am of course speaking of The 
Day of the Groundhog. 
I am not ashamed to admit that I am 
obsessed with Groundhog Day. Now, before 
you assume that I am madly in love with the 
visage of Bill Murray or something (you 
would really have to worry about me then), 
let me emphasize that, although the film does 
have a great deal of comedic meri.t, my infat­
uation revolves solely around the holiday. 
The camaraderie of Punxsutawney, the cute 
little groundhog-everything about Feb. 2 is 
a reason to celebrate. 
Most people find it extremely difficult to 
understand exactly why I revere Groundhog 
pay so much. Contrary to popular belief, I do 
not have some weird fetish for furry wood­
land creatures named Phil, nor do I aspire to 
become a holistic weather forecaster idolized 
by most of rural Pennsylvania. I merely 
rejoice in the fact that Groundhog Day offers 
the proud citizens of this great nation an oft­
neglected chance to celebrate the unpre­
dictability of Mother Nature vicariously 
through the antics of Punxsutawney Phil, the 
world's most famous member of the rodent 
family. 
The premise of Groundhog Day is actually 
based on an old Scottish co~plet: "If 
Candlemas Day is bright and clear, there'll be 
two winters in the year." In 1887, the resi­
dents of Punxsutawney first began to use a 
groundhog in attempts to predict the length 
of winter's reign. So dubbed Punxsutawney 
Phil, the worshiped groundhog has since 
voiced his prediction from atop Gobbler's 
Knob annually on Feb. 2. I am not quite sure 
if the same groundhog has been forecasting 
since 1887; my Notre Dame education has 
thus far been negligent on the life-spans of 
rat-esque critters. The point is this: Phil pops 
his furry noggin out of his burrow each year, 
"whispers" his prediction in the native tongue 
of all groundhogs, "groundhogese" (I am not 
kidding). and then his divination is translated 
to the general public by a member of the 
Groundhog Club. If Phil sees his shadow, we 
have six more weeks of winter; if not, then 
spring is on the way. 
The fine citizens of Punxsutawney claim 
that Phil has never, ever been wrong. Of 
course, the 6, 700 residents don't do much 
but muse on the Power of the Groundhog; a 
long time ago, the principle industry of this 
small hamlet town was trains and stuff, but 
now it is mostly just Groundhog Day. Good 
thing too, because thousands of people from 
all over the world visit each year just to see 
the little booger. 
I urge you all to take a stand next year and 
celebrate this fine holiday. Road trip to 
Punx'y, throw a party, sing groundhog carols. 
Just remember, although you may not have a 
sweetie to buy you a heart-shaped box of 
chocolate on Valentine's Day, there is a holi­
day in February for everyone. Someone cute 
in Punxsutawney loves you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Laura Petelle  Sue O'Kain  
Brad Prendergast  Production  
Sports  Heather Cocks  
Betsy Baker  Brad Prendergast  
Viewpoint  Nate Wills  
Jenny Metzger  Lab Tech  
Accent  Shannon Dunne  
Andrea Jordan  Megan Dooher  
Catherine Deely  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccp[ during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-· •.. 
Band attacks village, massacring 31 people, paper says 

ALGIERS. Algeria 
A band of men armed with knives and axes decapitated 31 people who had been forced from their homes in Medea, south of the capital, into the streets, the El Watan newspaper reported Sunday. 
The attack by about 50 men took place early Saturday, the newspaper quoted local residents as saying. 
"You have to do something," El Watan quoted a resident who contact­ed the paper as saying. "More than 30 people had their throats slit. Soon they're going to exterminate the entire town." 
The French-language newspaper said 31 bodies were taken to the morgue at Medea Hospital. Security forces moved into tho neighborhood Saturday, it said. 
The attack was the latest in a series 
Expert to analyze tire from Cosby car 
LOS ANGELES 
The flat tire that apparently led to Ennis Cosby's roadside killing has been given to an outside expert for analysis, a police spokesman said. Investigators refused to release results of their own tests on the tire or speculate on whether the tire might have been sabo­taged. Cmdr. Tim McBride said the expert's test results are expected in six 

weeks. The tire could prove to be key evidence. The 27­year-old son of comedian Bill Cosby had just replaced the tire with a spare when he was shot to death on a darkened roadside Jan. 16. Police believe robbery was the motive but have not determined if anything was taken from the $100,000 Mercedes-Benz convertible. 
No shadow means early spring 
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa. 
An outdoor bash that looked like a summertime rock concert, complete with bare-chested men and fireworks, was a fitting prelude Sunday to Punxsutawney Phil's forecast: Spring is nearly here. The sky was cloudy on Groundhog Day and the celebrated rodent failed to see his shadow at sunrise, just the 12th time that's hap­pened in 111 years of Pennsylvania prognostications. (The last time, in 1995, turned out to be a bad guess.) "He's just kind of complacent and ready to go about the things groundhogs do," said Bud Dunkel, president of the Punxsutawney Groundhog Club. A shadow sighting, according to tradition, would have indicated six more weeks of winter. It was a unanimous decision among groundhogs around the nation. Concurring opinions came from from New York City's Staten Island Chuck; Gen. Beauregard Lee of Lilburn, Ga.; Jimmy of Sun Prairie, Wis.; Wanda at the Milwaukee County Zoo, and Buckeye Chuck of Marion, Ohio. "We don't really care what he (Phil) says," said Jimmy spokesman Scott Lange. Even a prairie dog got into the act: "early spring" said Lander Lil of Lander, Wyo. Phil was pulled from his temporary burrow in a hollowed-out maple stump at 
7:25 a.m. by handler Bill Deeley, whose heavy glove saved his fingers from the annoyed critter's sharp teeth. Dunkel then looked into the 15-pound woodchuck's eyes and pretended to translate "groundhogese." The fore­cast won a cheer from the estimated 20,000-plus fans wh!'J gathered in a small clearing at Gobbler's Knob in the central Pennsylvania woods. Most had waited for hours as the temperature hovered around a relatively balmy 30. 
• ScmTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<~~>forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 3. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L B ISS! lTil 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  62  50  Fairbanks  30  10  New Orleans 74  61  
Baltimore  44  33.  Honolulu  80  68  New York  43  34  
Boston  38  27  Los Angeles 69  50  Philadelphia 40  30  
Chicago  35  32  Miami  78  63  Phoenix  76  49  
Denver  40  18  Minneapolis  27  23  St. Louis  44  39  


5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Monday Thesdaf 
! 

Thursd}ly 
~,~,~9.~~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
of car bombings and village massacres that have intensified with the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan on Jan. 
10. Since then, about 310 people are known to have been killed and 600 injured. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for Saturday's massacre, but suspicion fell on Muslim militants waging an insurgency for the past five years. 
Security forces only occasionally report such attacks and did not confirm the El Watan account. 
Medea is located south of Blida, a garri­son town that has been a main center for violence attributed to Muslim insurgents. 
In Algiers on Sunday, officials trying to prevent car bombings banned parking on the capital's main boulevards and threat­ened to seize the driver's licenses and cars of any offenders. 
Hundreds flock to icon of Virgin Mary 
NICOSIA, Cyprus 
Hundreds of pilgrims flocked Sunday to a remote mountain monastery to pray and kiss an icon of Jesus Christ and the Virgin Mary that has reportedly begun to weep. Abbot Nikiforos of the Kykko monastery said monks on Saturday noticed tears flowing down the cheeks of the Virgin Mary and Jesus as depicted on the icon. "I have no explanation at all for this phenomenon, but as Orthodox Christians we believe in miracles," he said. The 200-year-old icon shows the Virgin Mary hold­ing the baby Jesus in her arms. Witnesses said tears can be seen forming very slowly in their eyes and then flow­ing almost imperceptibly down the icon. Hundreds of people traveled to the monastery Sunday to pray and kiss the icon. The monastery is 25 miles northwest of Nicosia. 
Survey: Fewer people value air bags 
ATLANTA 
Fewer people considered air bags and other safety equipment important when choosing a car last year, according to a survey released Sunday. Fifty-seven per­cent of respondents considered air bags an important factor in their decision, The Dohring Co. said in its annu­al survey. A year ago, the number was 82 percent. The number who said air bags were not important at all increased to 24 percent from 6 percent. The survey also said 88 percent of respondents were at least somewhat influenced by news reports about vehicle safety. Nearly everyone who was asked -96 percent -said they had heard such reports about the potential dangers of air bags. Air bags, which inflate at speeds up to 200 mph, are credited with saving 1,700 lives in high-speed crash­es. But they are also blamed for the deaths of 35 chil­dren and 20 adults in low-speed accidents where the vic­tims otherwise would have survived. Most of the adults who died were smaller women, and about one-third were elderly. Most of the vi(:tims were not wearing seat belts; air bags are intended to save lives in conjunction with seat belts. The survey showed some consumers have major misconceptions about the extent of the threat. "They're talking about decapitation, suffocation ... it's just unbelievable," Kinney said. The survey ques­tioned people looking to buy a new or used car from a new car dealership. Federal law requires new cars to have standard driver-and passenger-side air bags by this year, followed in 1998 by all light trucks. This was the first time since the survey began in 1993 that the importance of safety equipment declined for consumers. 
Monday, February 3, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Into the night... ... .::h;:Wf·• .··/:Mw:;:····

Peace Corps reps visiting 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
The annual extravaganza known as Late Night Olympics celebrated its 11th year of raising money for Special Olympics on Friday night. See tomorrow's Irish Focus for more coverage. 

Please recycle The Observer Political grassroots rep visits today 
Special to The Observer Hall. Individual interviews will 
interested in working on envi­ronmental and public interest 
The Fund for Public Interest issues. Research, a non-partisan, non­Vivien Watts, a representa­profit environmental grass­tive from the organization's roots campaign network, will Chicago office, will be giving
visit campus today to interview an informational session at 7 graduating seniors who are p.m. today in 119 DeBartolo 

SAINT MARY'S COllEGE PRESENTS 




~Dp\,~~~NCE

AT SAINT MARY'S 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM FEBRUARY 14, 15, AT 8 PM FEBRUARY 16 AT 2:30 PM 


UNLIKE TUITION OUR 
PRICES DON'T INtREASE 

EVERY YEAR. 

Fazoli sfeatures fast Italian favorites from pasta to pizza. And since most items are priced under $4, you won't need a student loan to eat here. 

Real Italian. Real Fast.'M 52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 

be scheduled throughout the day today at the Center for Social Concerns and all day Tuesday at the Office of Career and Placement. 
Watts will be interviewing seniors for canvass director jobs. Canvass directors, according to Watts, are responsible for running an environmental campaign in locations nationwide. The posi­tion includes managing a staff of six to 12 people, attracting media coverage, building coali­tions of support within commu­nities and coordinating lobby­ing drives to influence public officials. 
The Fund for Public Interest Research, established in 1982, runs campaigns in 40 locations across the country. The organi­zation works with groups including the State Public Interest Research Groups, the Audubon Society and the American Oceans Campaign. 
-----------------~ ----­
page 4 The Observer· STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS Monday, February 3, 1997 
int Mary's Elections 

CONSTITUTIONALLY SPEAKING ... 
The job descriptions ofthe presidential and vice presidential positions, as defined by the Saint Mary's College Student Government Constitution: 
Student body president 
Authority and responsibility: The student body presi­dent shall be responsible for the effective operation of the Student Government Association. She: 
• Shall be the official representative of the student body 
• 
Chairs the Board of Governance Executive Board, the Board of Governance (BOG), the Budget Committee of the Student Government Association. 

• 
Serves as a voting member on the following commit­tees and boards: the BOG Executive Board, the Committee on Student Life of the Board of Trustees, the Committee on Student Affairs, the Student Affairs Council and the Student Alumnae Committee of the Alumnae Board. 

• 
Advertises all commissioner positions and accepts applications from the student body for the Board of Governance (BOG). 

• 
Supports, promotes and attends student government functions. 


Student body vice president 
Authority and responsibility: The student body vice president shall be responsible for all areas concerning stu­dent academic life. She: 
• Chairs the Student Academic Council (SAC). 
• 
Is responsible for coordinating elections for the student representatives of SAC. 

• 
Serves as a voting member of the Executive Board of BOG, the Academic Affairs Council, the Academic Standards Committee, the Curriculum Committee, the Committee on Education of the Board of Trustees, the Student Affairs Council and the Student Alumnae Committee of the Alumnae Board, and BOG. 

• 
Advertises all elected representatives positions and conducts an election process for student representatives from the respective departments for SAC. 

• Presents regular reports to the Board of Governance. 

• 
Supports, promotes and attends student government functions. 


• ELECTION '97 Debate 
Tonight, 7 p.m., Haggar Parlor 
Voting 
Tuesday. at the LeMans Entrance of the Dining Hall during meal times. For off­campus students, all day in the off-campus lounge, located on the first floor of Mad eleva Hall. 
Run-off election 
Thursday, if necessary. Voting times are the same as Tuesday's election. 


Election 
continued from page 1 
and Cervantes want to develop a 24-hour event hotline that will inform students about campus events, a web page describing Student Government Association (SGA) events, and the distribution of a SGA newsletter in bathroom stalls and off-campus boxes. 
"We want to promote SGA," Becker said. "If we have a Web page for SGA, we could post all the campus events on it, as well as minutes from all student government organi­zations, because students do not always hear what is going on." 
Becker has served as the president of Regina Hall, and is currently the BOG clubs commissioner. Cervantes serves on the LeMans hall council and as the SMC/ND chairwomen on the Residence Hall Association (RHA). 
"Our past experience is important because we have seen what the main ideas [of student government] are," Becker said. "We want to integrate everything, and develop unity." 
JRunning on the platform "Making More Happen for our Saint Mary's Community," the Milos ticket will strive to make more technological, diversity, athletic, and aware­ness advances at Saint Mary's if elected. 
"There are some issues students just do not know about," McKeough said. "A lot of stu­dents still have no idea that we are going to get e-mail at the college in March. We need to inform students about these developments, and earn support for better networking." 
McKeough feels her ticket could create a better-informed campus through developing a commissioner position to act as a liaison between the technology department at Saint Mary's and the student body. 
"We think students are concerned about issues that pertain to their independence, role as women, and future, " Milos said. "We want to do more to help students with these issues, and let them know that we are here for them." 
Milos and McKeough explain that they have tried to show students this aspect of their platform while they were campaigning. 
"We did not want to campaign in the same way," Milos said. "We wanted to really talk to students when we were going door to door, and answer any questions that they might have about us." 
Milos is currently the president of lUIA, while McKeough is the president of Student Activities Board (SAB). Both participate as members of the Student Life Committee for the Board of Trustees, and are executive board members of BOG. 
All students, including seniors and those living off-campus, are encouraged to vote in Tuesday's election. Voting booths are set up in the dining hall during breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Monday night's debate begins at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 
"I want to encourage everyone to take advantage of the debates Monday night," Miller said. "They can take the opportunity to get to know the tickets, platforms, and the women themselves. Then they can make an informed decision." 
• ELECTION COMMENTARY 

Seek substance over style 
T
his week Saint Mary's munity? College will be in the midst Do you want a president who is of an enormous change-over interested in boosting her resume, as the student body president and or in boosting the school spirit? vice president elections quickly Think about it. This is your col­approach. lege, these are your peers, arid If you this is your chance to have a say
Lori Allen 

have not in what goes on. The women that
Saint Mary's

b e e n you elect have the power to 
News Editor 

already, appoint others to major positions you will be on campus. They will influence all bombarded with a barrage of of us both directly and indirectly. posters, stickers, and buttons as Go to the debates tonight, ask the campaigning continues. candidates questions. Listen to 
You will find candidates going what they say, then listen to what door-to-door with sweeter-than­they don't say. sugar smiles, endorsing their plat­Do they address the issues that forms and articulating their goals concern you? for the future of Saint Mary's. Make an educated vote, based on 
Amidst all the campaigning, we the issues. Your vote will not only should stop and ask ourselves affect next year, but the policies what we really want in a candi­and projects these women choose date. to take on -and even avoid ­
We are all in every way, shape, will impact Saint Mary's. 
and form a part of the Saint Hesearch the candidates. Find Mary's community, and the deci­out about their platforms and sions we make on Tuesday will promises. Make sure their prima­
reasonably affect all of us. ·I urge ry goal is to work with all con­you to consider the options care­stituents of the College to better fully. the Saint Mary's community. 
Do you want a president who will After all, what you see is not represent all or a part of our com-always what you get. 
• ENDORSEMENT 


Observer endorses Milos/McKeough 
It was not by any means an easy deci· sion. But we definitely think it is the smart one. 
After conducting extended interviews with the three tickets running for the office of student body president and vice president, the Saint Mary's staff of The Observer has chosen to endorse the Milos/McKeough ticket. 
We looked at many aspects ofthe can­didates in making this decision. Yes, they are all qualified. And yes, they all possess innovative and intriguing ideas. 
But there's something different about Nikki Milos and Lori M({Keough. They are not just two Saint Mary's women looking to hold the most powerful stu­dent positions at Saint Mary's, They are not just two women with a plan, · 
They are two women with eyes and ears who are ready and willing to spend any or every evening sitting down With students and figuring out what they can do for them. They kept telling. us that they were "sincere" and "genuine," but for some reason we did not need to hear it. We already knew that. 
Their campaign goals reflect many of the traditional ones. They want to improve communication about campus issues, open up a multicultural lounge in Haggar, and institute more student commissioners in various departments. They want to expand awareness about the Student 

said when we asked her what she hoped to accomplish by this time next year. She didn't stutter or evade the issue. She didn't pick up her platform and start reciting the things she said she would accomplish. She just looked at us and said, "I just hope that the student body is happy 
Government with what we
Y
es, they are all qualified. And
Association have done. (SGAl. •And we yes, they all possess innovative Because that is 
believe that what we want
and intriguing ideas. But there's 
they can to do, make accomplish or something different about Nikki people happy." improve on all We were
Milos and Lori McKeough. 
of these efforts. impressed that 
McKeough impressed us with her plans to expand the Student Academic Council (SAC), an organization that was left unmentioned by the other two tickets. We could tell she has been working closely with Beth Ann Miller, the current student body vice presid~nt, and knows how to continue the hard work Miller spent on revamp· ing SAC this year. 
·We were most pleased with what Milos 

the McNally/ Parente ticket did their homework, They had talked to the respectivemem­bers on campus, and felt comfortable in spitting back facts and figures from their research. But we wonder how effective their changes in the curriculum requirements will be ..After all, Turbiak and Miller were unable to get the num­ber of required credit hours for gradua­tion reduced. 
Most significantly, we worried about the fact that they are living ofT campus next year. They claim the move will not affect their ability to be good leaders, but we disagree. McNally and Parente have to face the fact that they will not be as available as past executive officers if they live off campus. How are they going to answer students who have con­cerns after office hours end'? 
Although it was clear that the Becker/Cervantes ticket was aware of student concerns and were ready to serve the community, we could tell that they lacked a plan. Most of what they said was taken from previous cam· paigns and administrations, and they almost appeared to be adding to their platform as we went along. 
But we encourage you to find out what you think about these candidates first hand. Go to the debates tonight at 7 
p.m. in Haggar Parlor and hear what they have to say. Or give them a call and ask them about the issues yourself. We are here to educate, not to make the decision for you. 
Monday, February 3, 1997 The Observer • STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS page 5 
The Candidates compiled by Caroline Bl=. Saint Mary"s Editor 
LARA BECKER/]ENN CERVANTES 
President: Lara Becker Vice president: Jenn Cervantes Campaign slogan: Working together to build Saint Mary's community Biggest contribution to student government: Contributed to the success of their hall activities. 
Top three platform goals: 
• 
Ethnic Diversity. "We need to combine people of different groups more. We could do this through focusing each month on a different culture," said Cervantes. 

• 
Athletics. Want to organize a fall and spring pep rally, put an athletic commissioner on BOG, and distribute "Go Belles" signs. 

• 
Communication. "We want to promote SGA. We could have a Web page, and a 24-hour hot line that lists events, and post summaries of all student government organization meetings on the walls," said Becker. 


Repeated quote: "We're not quite sure about that." Most impressive because... They are all smiles. They are friendly people, and are willing to commit as much time as needed to making Saint Mary's better. Biggest worry about them if elected: Almost seemed to be making up their platform as they spoke. If elected, they would need to do a little more research about student concerns on cam­Experience: pus, and provide more inn_ovative ways of solving them, rather than relying on the traditional ones 
1)-esidential candidate Lara Becker, a junior from LeMans Hall ..
of the past student governments. 
F has been the president of Regina Hall, the BOG clubs commis­
If they were not elected, they think it would be because: "We've never held a par­
sioner, a member of RHA, a hostess for VISA and an orientation
ticular position, or maybe one issue people wanted solved was not addressed by us. Maybe our 
counselor.
ideas did not work for them," said Cervantes. Say their greatest quality is: "We're dedicated." 
Vice presidential candidate Jenn Cervantes is also a junior from 
Last Saint Mary's sporting event attended: When student government sponsored "Sub 
LeMans Hall. She has served Saint Mary's as a member of
Night" in Angela. 
LeMans Hall Council and as the RHA NDISMC chairwoman, in
Final thoughts: "We want to take Saint Mary's further. We can do this by developing more 
addition to working on the yearbook, serving as a VISA tour guide 
awareness on campus, and integrating everything. This will begin with better programming on 
and participating as a member of the biology club. 
campus," said Becker. 
MEGHAN McNALLYI ANNE PARENTE 
President: Meghan McNally Vice president: Anne Parente Campaign slogan: Strengthening the community through collaborative leadership for a promis­ing future Biggest contribution to student government: Restructured the junior class board this year. 
Top three platform goals: 

• 
Academics. Wants to add a first year studies program to the Saint Mary's curriculum that would provide more support for freshmen. 

• 
Women's Studies. "We need to make sure that, in every department, women's issues are addressed. Saint Mary's needs to be reminded that it is a women's college," said McNally. 

• 
Multiculturalism. "The major thing about Saint Mary's is that it is not diverse. We need to do something to change that. We need to help students recognize people of other backgrounds and histories," said McNally. 


Repeated quote: "Two-way communication." Most impressive because: These women did their homework. Not only have they talked to every administrator, organizer, department chair, or staff member at the College, but they can recite any fact, figure, or statistic you wish to know about Saint Mary's upon request. Biggest worry about them if elected: They are both living off-campus next year. Although
1)-esidential candidate Meghan McNally, a junior from Holy 
they insist it won't interfere with their work on student government, we have a hard time believing 
F Cross Hall. is currently the president ofthe junior class and 
it.

the chairwoman of VISA. She was also the sophomore and fresh­
If they were not elected, they think it would be because: They have not taken credit 
man class treasurer. 
for their work. "We're usually behind the scenes doing the dirty work. People may not think that we Vice presidential candidate Anne Parente, also a junior from are as "hands-on" as we actually are," said McNally. lloly Cross Hall, is the junior class treasurer and was the chair­Say their greatest quality is: "We like to listen to people." women ofsophomore parents weekend. Last Saint Mary's sporting event attended: The basketball game last Wednesday. Final thoughts: "Our reasons for moving off campus are to get off-campus, not to get away from 
Both women also participated in the planning of this year's 
the Saint Mary's community. Living off-campus is a life experience, and it is something that will 
Play of the Mind, and were orientation counselors. 
teach us responsibility. And it better prepares us for life after graduation," said Parente. 
NIKKI MILos/LoRI McKEOUGH 
President: Nikki Milos Vice-President: Lori McKeough Campaign slogan: Making more happen for our Saint Mary's community Biggest contribution to student government: When Milos called together an emergency meeting after the executive board of RHA resigned in 1995, thus beginning her development of RHA as a more integral part of student government. 
Top three platform goals: 
• 
Technology. They want to create a student commissioner that will act as a liaison between the technology COLT and the students. They also plan to distribute a technology newsletter that will inform students of developments on campus, such as voice-mail coming to Saint Mary's in March. 

• 
Diversity. "Everyone needs to be more educated about diversity. We want to create a multicultural lounge in Haggar, where we can hold lectures and cultural events, or just for student interaction," said Milos. 

• 
Involvement. "We want more SGA awareness. We want to get people to talk to us and tell us what their concerns are. We can do this through highlighting important issues of student government on a monthly calendar, or focusing on alumnae," said McKeough. 


Most impressive because: They truly are genuine and sincere. And they want to hear what 
Experience:

the students have to say. Biggest worry about them if elected: Meetings may run rather lengthy -these women 1)-esidential candidate Nikki Milos. a junior from LeMans Hall, like to cover every bullet point, and thoroughly. F is the president ofRHA, and served as vice president last If they were not elected, they think it would be because: "People do not take the year. She has also volunteered at the Logan Center and worked time to get to know us. They may see us as rushing around, and think that we are sort of flighty. with the Ladies ofColumbus. Or maybe they did not take the time to examine tbe campaign issues and just voted for their friends," 
Vice presidential candidate Lori McKeough, a junior from Holy
said Milos. 
Cross Hall, is currently the SAB coordinator and has worked as
Say their greatest quality is: "We are sincere, and we're genuine." 
the Pi Mu Epsilon treasurer.

Last attended a SMC sporting event: Two weeks ago. Final thoughts: "If elected, we will feel successful in what we did not from running down our 
Both women are members of the executive board ofBOG and of 
platform and checking items off, but in whether or not we made the student body happy. We are 
the Student Life Committee for the Board ofTrustees, and have
sincere and we are genuine. We are honest, and we are approachable. We want to hear what you 
worked with CARE and Play of the Mind. 
have to say," said Milos. 
'­





Blondie's Cooldes 


LifePaths. 

l 0" or 12" round or heart 
shaped "I Love You" decorated There are times when we all feel lost. When that time comes, there is a path to take, a path to where you will find a full and satisfying life. That path is LifePaths. Where you'll find comprehensive psychiatric treatment programs. We beli'eve in using a team approach where administration, nurses, therapists and physicians work together for your benefit. All under the direction of board certified psychiatrists. The right path? 
LifePaths. 800-491-8888

Ill 
Memorial Hospital ~JLifePaths 
University Park Mall
Fifth and Pine Streets • Michigan City,JN 46360 • (800)491-8888 or (219)873-2888 
277-7970 


a report of the vandalism on Sunday when it was discovered.

Art 
Security is conducting an inves­tigation into the matter and has

continued from page 1 
filed a report. 

sioning for a home in the south According to Collins, the of France. same piece was vandalized last Notre Dame Security received year. The arrow was similarly 
The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 3, 1997 
GOP warily praises tax cut 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press Writer 
WASIIINGTON 

Republican budget writers are giving President 
Clinton guarded praise for his tax cut plan, while 
saying it should be broader, bigger and more 
permanent. 

The Treasury Department on 
~~~ 
Sunday outlined nearly $100 
billion in tax cuts over five 
years to be formally 
announced by Clinton on 
Thursday when he releases his 
fiscal 1998 budget and his plan 
to balance the budget by 2002. 
Nearly hall' of' the cuts, $46.7 """"'"--"---~ 
billion, would go toward a Clinton 
$500-per-child tax credit and 
$38.6 billion would be earmarked for higher 
education and training tax incentives. The plan 
would expand deductions for Individual 
Retirement Accounts, eliminate capital gains 
taxes for most personal-home sales and reduce 
estate taxes for farmers and small-business own­
ers. 

"I support the number and perhaps more, but 
not sure I support each item within it," Senate 
Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, R­
N.M., said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." "I 
think we have some give and take." 
Congressional Republicans arc seeking nearly 
$200 billion in tax cuts over six years, Their plan 
also has a $500-per-child tax credit and offers 
across-the-board relief for capital gains. 
"I praise the president for the direction he is 
headed," Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas, chairman of 
the ta"--writing House Ways and Means 
Committee, said in a statement. "But I remain 
concerned that his tax cuts are temporary while 
his tax hikes are permanent. As a result, his total 
tax package may add up to another tax increase, 
not tax relief." 

The administration also is seeking some $80 
billion in additional revenue from closing tax 
loopholes, ending corporate subsidies and 
renewing an expired airport tax. 
Asked about that on ABC's "This Week" 
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin said: "We have 
put together realistic numbers for our budget, 
and with this budget, which I think is sound and 
strong and realistic, the tax cuts are perma­
broken off, but the vandals left it on the ground next to the sculpture. 
"There is so little vandalism on campus that it is very unfor­tunate for this to occur. It's really disrespectful," said Collins. 
. 

\ '~~. Snoop, Blythe, Ann, Cobb, & D 
Give your Sweetie a Unique Gift 
Try one of 
nent." 

Negotiations on a compromise are likely to focus on the capital gains issue, a cornerstone of the GOP plan. "It's not a priority of ours to expand the movement in capital g~ins beyond where we are," White House budget director Franklin Raines said on NBC. 
But, he added, administration officials "would be willing to talk about it." The main items of the administration plan are: 
• 
A phased-in $500 tax credit for dependent children: a $46.7 billion cost in tax revenue. 

• 
HOPE scholarship tax credits of up to $1,500 a year, available for the first two years of post­secondary education: $18.6 billion. 

• 
A phased-in $10,000 tax deduction for post­secondary education and training: $17.6 billion. 

• 
Tax breaks for businesses offering education­al assistance and exelusion for forgiveness of certain student loans: $2.7 billion. 

• 
Expanded income limits on deductible Individual Retirement Accounts ($70,000 for sin­gle filers, $100,000 for joint filers): $5.5 billion. 

• 
Exclusion of $500,000 for couples, $250,000 for singles, of capital gains from selling a princi­pal residence: $1.5 billion. 

• 
Tax incentives for distressed areas: $2.4 bil­lion. 

• 
A new welfare-to-work credit through Sept. 30, 2000, to encourage businesses to hire long­term welfare recipients: $500 million. 

• 
Small business and farm estate tax relief: $700 million. 

• 
Other initiatives, including extending expiring tax provisions and providing new incentives for economic development in Puerto Rico: $4 billion. 


HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASSSIFIEDS 
-


----------------------------~------------~---~----­
-----------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 3, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Clinton seeks governors' aid 
By GENE KRAMER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The Democratic White House on Sunday proposed an open­door partnership with the pre­dominantly Republican state governors for meeting top-prior­ity competitive and educational challenges facing America. 
Competing against Europe and Japan for lucrative high tech.nol­ogy jobs in the growing global economy will demand utmost bipartisanship and local-federal cooperation to cut deficits while investing in training and research, said Erskine B. Bowles, President Clinton's chief of staff. 
"If we learned nothing else during the last four years, it is that we can only achieve our goals by working together, by working across party lines and at every level of government," Bowles said in a speech to the National Governors' Association first meeting of Clinton's second administration. 
"The president is absolutely committed to working with you governors in the states to meet our challenges ... ours will be a relationship based on mutual respect and openness," Bowles 


Ifyou're into computer science, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law... 


get in touch with State Farm. 

Our career opportunities are many and varied for qualified grads. Ifyou're selected, you'll enjoy the advantages of working with a respected leader in the insurance industry. Expert training. State-of-the-art equipment. Excellent pay and benefits. Plenty of room to grow. And you'll enjoy Bloomington, Illinois, too. It's a thriving community with the social, cultural and recreational activities afforded by two universities. 
Contact your Placement Director, or write to: Assistant Director Corporate Human Resources, Three State Farm Plaza-Kl, Bloomington, Illinois 61791-0001. 
State Farm Insurance Companies • Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois • An Equal Opportunity Employer http://www.statefarm.com · 
said. 
"My office and my doors will always be open." he added, pre­viewing Clinton's planned meet­ings with the governors Sunday night and Monday and the presi­dent's State of the Union address Tuesday. 
In other developments Sunday: 
• The governors agreed that Congress should restore welfare benefits to some immigrants, breaking a partisan stalemate over whether that would lead to other changes to last year's his­toric legislation. The final reso­lution replaced a draft state­ment that explicitly called on Congress to restore disability and food stamp benefits to legal immigrants who are too old or sick to ever become citizens or those who are waiting to become citizens. 
Under pressure from congres­sional Republicans, Republican governors insisted on softening the call for immigrant benefits. 
The new resolution urges Congress and the Clinton admin­istration to "ensure that the immigration system and its requirements are fair to both citizens and non-citizens" and to "meet the needs" of those who cannot become citizens. 
It also asserts that "an equi­table solution to this issue could be achieved without reopening the statute." 
• The chief executives remained divided over tougher clean air standards being con­sidered by the Environmental Protection Agency, refusing to issue a strong rebuke of the pro­posal as sought by some of the chief executives. 
Ohio Gov. George Voinovich, a Republican, had argl.\fld that it was "critical" that the gover­nors formally express their opposition to the EPA proposal. Others, led by New Jersey Gov. Christine Whitman, also a Republican, argued that it was premature to criticize the pro­posal. 
Finally, the governors Committee on Natural Resources issued a resolution that said little more than that the governors are "concerned about striking a balance" between protecting public health and overly burdensome regulations. 
• Northeastern governors defe1,1ded federal policies giving their states more highway money than their motorists con­tribute and urged Congress to preserve such a highway-fund­ing formula "based on need." 
Billions of dollars are at stake as Congress considers a multi­year transportation bill this year. Many states, particularly growing ones in the South and the West, want greater equity in funding. 
At news conference, seven Northeastern governors said commerce and traffic patterns in their states justify their addi­tional funding from a federal highway trust fund financed through taxes at the gas pump. 
CLEAN • FAST • GENTLE 
Buy 4 sessions at the regula.price & get 2 FREE! Buy 5 &get 3 FREE... , , Buy 6 & get 4 FREE ... 
1 Month & 3 Month Unlimited 
Tanning Packages Available! 

[fmcAGO '·--·'HAIR & TANij 
5804 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 277-79 6 

J 
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 3, 1997 
• MIDDlE EAST 

Israel, Palestine resume peace talks this week 
By ALEXANDER HIGGINS 
Associated Press Writer 
DAVOS, Switzerland 
Israel and the Palestinians will resume talks this week with "a great feeling of hope" of progress toward a wider Mideast" set-
nr--,..,.----~--,---.... tlement that soon could involve Syria, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday. 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat signaled a willingness to compromise, saying he would accept an "internation­al presenc.e" to control goods arriving in Palestinian-con­trolled areas. 
But Arafat's appearance before a global gathering of government and business leaders was a catalog of com­plaints rather than optimism. 
"Is this a just peace?" asked Arafat, citing restrictions on Palestinians who want to work in Israel that cost them $7 mil­lion a day. "Sixty-five percent of Palestinian families live below the poverty line." 
Netanyahu, who spoke after Arafat at the World Economic Forum, said Israelis have suf­fered from Palestinian terror attacks. 
"Peace without security can­not last," Netanyahu said. The Israeli leader said, how­ever, that his talks with Arafat 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
• 
and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in the Swiss Alpine resort of Davos helped create "a new attitude, maybe a new beginning." 
Israel and the Palestinians resume talks Thursday at the Erez crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip with "a great feeling of hope" of progress toward a wider Mideast settlement, Netanyahu said. 
Netanyahu also said he was looking for a way to get Syrian President Hafez Assad to resume talks with Israel. Talks broke down a year ago after bombings in Israel by Islamic militants. 
"I cannot find one single real reason why Syria and Israel cannot resume the negotia­tions," he said. 
Netanyahu and Mubarak, standing side by side and look­ing relaxed and pleased, said their hour-long session ­their first face-to-face meeting in six months -had been "very good." 
"We see eye-to-eye on the need for the expansion of peace and economic rela­tions," Netanyahu said. 
He said he had accepted an invitation from Mubarak to visit Egypt and would probably go there in two months with "a very large business delega­tion." 
After meeting Arafat he cited "a great feeling of hope." 
"Hope doesn't mean that there aren't any problems," he said. 
• NORTHERN IRELAND 

Twenty-five years later. .. 


Catholics remember Bloody Sunday 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press Writer 

LONDONDERRY, Northern Ireland 
Twenty-five years after British troops gunned down 13 Roman Catholic demonstrators, more than 20,000 marchers and political leaders called for justice Sunday in a display of anger and grief. 
The Jan. 30, 1972, killings at the end of a civil rights march here came to be known as "Bloody Sunday" and galvanized 
and banners honoring slain IRA members. 
Sinn Fein leaders and Catholic moderates called for an international investigation into the massacre. 
"The road to peace is through justice," Sinn Fein deputy leader Martin McGuinness said. 
In 1972, McGuinness was 21 years old and reputedly the IRA's commander in the city. He told the crowd of his memories of marching on Bloody Sunday, and of his horror at seeing dead bodies strewn about the Bogside. 
He listed several other 
Catholic support for the Irish locals killed by police or sol-· Republican Army like no other diers -all cases in which no
'Jt is said that the 

event in the North Ireland con­murder or manslaughter
Irish remember too
flict. charges were filed. He As police in armored Land­much. I make no apolo­acknowledged that Northern Rovers observed and video­Ireland's Protestant majority
gy for remembering...
taped from a discreet distance, and the British had likewise the crowd marched in bright British murder in suffered from IRA bombings. sunshine through the Catholic Derry's streets.' "We know there are two 
Bogside district to the spot of roads before us. There is the the massacre. 
Michael McKinney road to further conflict. And 
No soldier was ever prosecut­one is to the negotiating 
ed for the deaths. A British inquiry into the killings con­cluded that troops were justified in firing because some of the demonstrators may have been armed. Locals dispute that claim, saying the soldiers fired first and deliberately. 
"It is said that the Irish remember too much. I make no apology for remembering ... British murder in Derry's streets," Michael McKinney, a brother of one of the victims, said to cheers from the crowd. 
Locals flanked the podium carrying 25-foot­high banners depicting each of Bloody Sunday's victims, who included both IRA supporters and moderates. 
The commemoration Sunday served as a de facto election rally for leaders of the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party, which hopes to win seats in upcoming British Parliament elections. 
Many of those at Sunday's commemoration were Sinn Fein supporters bused from across Northern Ireland. They were accompanied by fife-and-drum corps in black berets, their drums 
~--~foo-c()OPbN--1 
CANCUN, MEXICO  :  
Complete Packages From $399  I  
RT airfare, 7 Nights Hotel,  I  
Free Covers & Parties Plus Discounts  ·  1  
on Side Trips and Excursions.  
Some Restrictions apply.  
Prices for March 8th  
Chicago Departures only.  
CALL NOW!!!  

table," McGuinness said, 
emphasizing that he believed there was ~·nowhere else to go" but into negoti­ations. 
Sinn Fein has been excluded from talks that began last June because the IRA ended a 17­month cease-fire with a London bombing in February 1996. The IRA launched its violent campaign against British rule of Northern Ireland in 1970. 
Nine Northern Ireland parties participating in the talks have made little progress toward find­ing a form of government acceptable to Protestants, who demand the province remain linked with Britain, and Catholics determined to build ties with the rest of Ireland. 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams said Prime Minister John Major is obligated to begin a new inquiry into Bloody Sunday. 
"Bloody Sunday remains pertinent today because it is an Open wound. Bloody Sunday is the Sunday which has never ended," he said on Sky television. 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
GREAT \YALL Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) EXPERIENCE APPALACHIA!  
oin us at The Morris Inn before and after Notre Dame home  Christian Appalachian Project Volunteer Program Come find out about great opportunities for hands-on experience in the hills of Kentucky. We're looking for energetic one year and summer camp volunteers.  

basketball games. Our dining room opens early, at SPM, prior to knight home games. After the 


game, come and sample some of the 

Betsy Olson, trom the Christian Appalachian Project Volunteer Program will be on campus
new items off of our lounge menu. • Wednesday, February 5 • from 1 0 a.m.-12 p.m. in LeMans Hall Lobby Ca/16 3 I -2020 for dinner reservations. (SMC) and at the Center for Social Concerns from 7-8:30 p.m . 
~-----~~-~-----·-~-~-~ ~----~­
~-~--~----~---­
Monday, February 3, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
• PAKISTAN 


Suit aims to keep leader out of election 
Pakistan prepares for polls 
Today's vote in Pakistan comes after President Farooq Leghari dissolved parliament three months ago, saying former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's government was mired in corruption. A look at the election: 
OFFICES BEING CONTESTED 
All 217 seats in the National Assembly are up for grabs Voting for local assemblies in Pakistan's four provinces and six tribal territories of the northwest also is scheduled. About 7,000 candidates are running in the federal and provincial races. 
WHO'S ELIGIBLE TO VOTE 
For the first time, all Pakistanis at least 18 years old are eligible to vote. Until this election, only tribal leaders in the northwest could vote. 
TURNOUT 
Turnout has been predicted at as low as 20 percent of about 60 million registered voters. Turnout is usually much higher. This time, voters appear fed up with seeing the same faces elected time and again, only to be toppled amid the same charges of corruption and incompetence. Ms. Bhutto's government is the third to fail to complete its term. 
MAJOR PARTIES 
The main contenders are Ms. Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party and the Pakistan Muslim League of Nawaz Sharif, who himself was dismissed on corruption charges in 1993 after three years in power. Sharif is the front runner in the race for prime minister. 
ISSUES 
The main issue is corruption ­Ms. Bhutto denies the charges against her, while Sharif and Khan pledge to clean up government. The economy also is in a shambles, and candidates are promising reform and growth. 
WHO'S IN CONTROL NOW 
After dismissing Ms. Bhutto, Leghari appointed an interim administration to run the government until the Feb. 3 vote. But many Pakistanis believe Leghari is really in charge. 
AP 

Exhau.st Service, & Shocks 
free inspection & estimates on all cars & most light trucks & vans 
• 
custom pipe bending 

• 
wheel alignment • oil changes 


3611 N. Grape Rd. Lantz LIFETIME (;UA'RANTEE oN Mishawaka MUFFLERS, BRAKE PADS & SHOES. 
south of Edison 
SHQ(:KS, STRUTS, TO ORIGINAL PURCHASER, REPLACEMENT UPON

• [;;] 254 -0070 PRESENTATION OF CERTIFICATE 
•LABOR EXCLUDED ON

.... :••· ····· 
' : I I • t II· BRAKES & STRUTS
JYISAJ =•J 
STUDENT DISCOUN U II ' 
not ualid with other. 












Critical Issues Roundtable 
Wednesday, February 5 

4:30--6:00 P.M. 120 DeBartolo 
By GRETCHEN PETERS 
Associated Press Writer 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 
A cricket star running for prime minister of Pakistan went to court Sunday to block ousted leader Benazir Bhutto from seeking re-election Monday. 
The move by lmran Khan probably came too late to affect voting, his spokeswoman acknowledged. But the suit could result in Ms. Bhutto being barred from taking office if she wins, said Nasim Zehra, the spokeswoman for Khan's Justice Party. 
Bhutto was dismissed by the president Nov. 5 on allegations of corruption and economic mismanagement. The Supreme Court upheld the dismissal last Thursday. Khan waited for the decision to file his suit, Zebra said. 
Opinion polls show Khan trailing Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, head of the Pakistan Muslim League, who is slightly ahead. 
Bhutto has accused the inter­im government overseeing the vote of planning to rig ballots in Sharifs favor. She threatens to reject the results if she wins fewer than 90 seats in the 217­member National Assembly. 
"We hope and pray that the elections will be fair, otherwise it would be disastrous for the country," she said Sunday after arriving to vote in her home­town of Lakarna, 500 miles south of Islamabad. 
Nearly 60 million voters were registered, but turnout was expected to be low. 

Alcohol, Gender and the Notre Dame Community
. 

A Critical Discussion 
Presenters: 

Martha Cohn Spiegel 
• 
Author/Social Activist 

• 
Former member, Los Angeles County Commission on Alcoholism 

• 
Founder, Alcohol/Drug Action 


Program, Jewish Family Service, Los Angeles 
Catherine McCarren •Senior Gender Studies Concentrator 

Dr. Len Hickman 

•Staff Psychologist University Counseling Ctr. 
Sr. M. J. Griffin •Rector Howard Hall 




Sponsored by the Gender Studies Program 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan ·Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor. .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ........................ Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor. ................ Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudenrs of the University of Notre 
Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
mrials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Edimr, Photo Editor, Spans Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space: is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lecters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WINTER OF MY OISCOI\ITEI\IT 
Star Wars still remains definitive 'space opera' 
Two decades after its original release,Star Wars remains amongst the most culturally pervasive films of all time. George Lucas' space opera some­how has managed to transcend its origi­nally allotted role -that of light enter­tainment -and has instead captured a place in the collective cultural con­sciousness of much of the Western 
Christopher Kratovil 


World. 
I am neither a film critic nor a cultural historian, but to those who doubt the continuing relevance and significance of the Star Wars experience I would offer the lines outside of Mishawaka's Movies 10 on Friday morning; anything that gets college students out of bed by 9:00 on a Friday morning after a night at Senior Bar must be rather important. I attended both the 50th anniversary rerelease showings of Citizen Kane and Casablanca,and in neither case was anyone lining up to buy tickets at 4:30 in the morning (as at least one group of Notre Dame seniors quite literally did). 
Star Wars' infiltration of everything from toy stores to the vernacular lan­guage is not in-and-of itself unique ,since any number of successful films have spawned lines of merchandise and pop culture buzz words. But what makes Star Wars unique has been its uncanny staying power; a full 13 years after the release of Return of the Jedi last year, the bestselling action figure in the country was again the Star Wars line, meaning that the toys were being snapped up by kids who weren't even alive when the trilogy concluded. And what other film has its own exhibit at the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum? 
You could let sociologists and film experts debate the reasons behind the trilogy's enduring success ad nauseum and still not get an answer any more enlightening than the one that the Chicago Tribune printed on Friday; "It [Star Wars] pulls psychologically on all the pertinent mythic themes." But the standard interpretation of the trilogy's popularity is that it is a simple "guys in white hats vs. guys black hats" study in good overcoming evil. The struggle and eventual victory of the ragtag Rebel Alliance over the "Evil Galactic Empire" strikes a universal chord that recalls everything from the Spirit of '76 to the Velvet Revolution and the fall of the Berlin Wall. 
That explanation has never worked for me and still doesn't. Why? Simply stated, the Empire, even with its offi­cers' black uniforms and snippy accents, just doesn't .seem that bad. "Heresy!" you may be crying at this point, but let me continue. 
George Lucas has something like seven hours of screen time to convince us that the Galactic Empire needs to be brought down, but other than telling us that the Empire is "evil" in the prologue to Star Wars itself, he never really both­ers to make the case for the rebel cause. It is just assumed that the audience, mindless media slaves that we are, will naturally accept the legitimacy of the rebellion and sympathize with it. 
Not so, at least in my case. While admittedly authoritarian, the Galactic Empire really doesn't seem like that horrible of an organization. The Empire seems to have done a decent job of maintaining cosmic order, preventing the myriad of alien races that populate the Star Wars universe from engaging in a Bosnia-type bloodbath with each other. Also, it appears that the Empire is a federalist system after a fashion; pay your taxes to fund the Empire's star destroyers and Death Stars, cooperate with Imperial officials and your planet is left pretty much alone to run itself. 
No doubt you're wondering how I'm going to explain away some of the Empire's misdeeds that are captured in the films. Well, I have listened to and catalogued the complaints of my pro­Rebellion, anti-Imperial peers and I find their case surprisingly thin (note: Information from the plethora of Star Wars novels, etc. is apocryphal and therefore inadmissible): 
A) "The Empire blows up Alderaan." Granted, this is probably an example of excessive force, but the use of a weapon of mass destruction against a non-mili­tarized target in an effort to bring a con­flict to an expedient end is hardly with­out precedent. For example, German war industries in Dresden were minimal and Hiroshima was considered the least militarized of Japan's major cities. In other words, an Imperial apologist could easily use the same arguments to justify the destruction of Alderaan that U.S. historians use to explain the "total war­fare" bombing campaigns at the end of World War II. Besides, how many hun­dreds of thousands of Imperial con­scripts and construction workers were killed in the Rebels' destruction of the two Death Stars? 
B) 'The Empire routinely uses torture on its prisoners, such as Princess Leia in Star Wars and Han Solo in Empire." The use of torture against guerrillas seems to be a standard and quietly accepted counterinsurgency tactic. Guerrillas ("Rebels") lack the protec­tions accorded regular POWs under international law and although it is ille­gal to torture them per se, the practice seems to be winked at. Thursday's New York Times, for example, reported on the CIA's training of five Latin American security forces in non-physical modes of torture in the mid -1980s. 
C) "Imperial higher-ups, such as Darth Vader and the Emperor, use the 'Dark Side of the Force"' (a form of spirituality 
• DOONESBUIW GARRY TRUDEAU 
that practitioners of the "Light Side of 
the Force" apparently find offensive). 
This sectarian tiff recalls the great and 
bloody Catholic-Protestant strife of the 
16th and 17th Centuries. Catholics 
would regularly accuse Protestants of 
being "antichrists" and vice-versa, and 
then both sides would righteously butch­
er each other. Both sides in Star Wars 
could use a dose of religious tolerance. 
Dl "The Imperial Senate has been dis­
sonred." Well, what do you expect with a 
galaxy-wide rebellion on? Suspending 
democratic institutions at times of 
severe crisis is a fairly standard prac­
tice. Witness Lincoln's suspension of 
habeas corpus during the Civil War or 
republican Rome's practice of appoint­
ing a dictator for one year during peri­
ods of emergency. 
E) "Imperial Troops on Endor were mean to the Ewoks." And who can blame them? Were I forced to be around a tribe of psuedo-teddy bears designed specifically to boost movie toy sales, I'd probably take a few pot-shots at them too. 
F) "Storm troopers butchered Luke's aunt and uncle." Okay, you got me on that one. The denial of due process to civilians in wartime is a real problem. But don't let the impulsive actions of one Storm Trooper lieutenant besmirch the reputation of a galaxy-wide Empire doing its best to maintain order and security. 
Living in a century that has already seen Russia's Bolsheviks, the Nazis, Mao's Red Guards and the Khmer Rouge I have difficulty accepting the utter malevolence of the Galactic Empire. So, as you sit in that darkened theater and cheer for those glorified, space pirate Rebels, try to have some sympathy for the Empire and its image problem. 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Monday. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 





VIEWPOINT
Monday, February 3, 1997 page 11 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Rodman's play overshadows off-court antics 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the inside column that appeared in Tuesday's Observer by Dan Cichalski about Dennis Rodman. Dan states that he is trouble to the league. This is what the NBA wants one to believe. Commissioner David Stern actually enjoys what Dennis Rodman does for the game of basketball. Since Dennis' "transformation" NBA fans now go to see him play. The fans wonder what color his hair will be or what crazy antic he will do next. People went out to buy his autobiography "Bad as I Wauna Be," making the New York Times best seller list, just to find out what he has been through. The New York streets were crowded in August just to see his bride-who turned out to be him in a wedding gown. This behav­ior generates jersey, t-shirt, and poster sales. This increases the amount of rev­enue that the NBA brings in, and allows David Stern to increase his salary to more than eight million a year. Dennis has also been one of the leading rebounders in the league during his career. He was even labeled by Sports Illustrated as the greatest rebounder ever. Dan wrote little to none about his playing ability, but more about his behavior on the court, and I will address that, too. 
Who makes Rodman seem like the bad guy? Dan, Mike Lupica, Keith Olbermann, and the rest of the media. Before Dennis' "transformation" he 
• lETTER TO THE EOJTOR 
acted the same way as he does today. He would commit illegal fouls and get technical fouls just like todaY: Dennis even pushed Chicago Bulls forward Scottie Pippen (his current teammate) to the ground causing him to break his nose during the Detroit Pistons' 1989 NBA Championship run. Why isn't he focused on like he is today? Two rea­sons-his looks and his team. Dennis "conformed to what the NBA wanted" when he played for the Detroit Pistons, doing exactly as told. He looked like everyone else on the court, no multi-col­ored hair, no piercings, and no publicity. Now to the second reason, his team. Dennis Rodman played for the Detroit Pistons, the Bad Boys of the NBA. He played with another top-notch rule vio­lator, and Notre Dame graduate Bill Laimbeer. There wasn't one person for the media or the referees to focus on when they played, because they were all known for doing something wrong. When is the last time Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen, or anyone else on the Bulls with the exclusion of Rodman, has elbowed someone while they went for a lay up. Never, because the Bulls do not play this way, but the Pistons did and it helped them win back-to-hack champi­onships. 
Rodman's "transformation" took place in the Fall of 1993. He had just been traded by the Pistons to the Spurs, and Dennis sat in his truck with a gun to his head ready to pull the trigger. Then, he thought about the act and decided that he wasn't going to conform to being the typical NBA player. He began to get tat­toos, body parts pierced, and his hair dyed eventually changing him into the Dennis Rodman we know today. In his book he says that this was his way of showing his true self, instead of being who he wasn't. He started over with a new look and a new team, and then the media began to attack him, pointing out all his flaws. 
I have to agree with Dan on one point, I am not a Bulls fan either. Actually, I hate the Bulls with such a passion that when I eventually go to the Bulfs game that I won tickets for, I will root against the Bulls in their own arena! I don't know why I hate the Bulls so much, maybe it is because I am from New York, and the Knicks are better. I may hate the Bulls as a team, but I enjoy watching certain players shine especial­ly Rodman. 
Another fact I would like to point out is that Rodman knows when to act unruly. During the entire playoffs last year, he was calm causing other players, one notable Frank Brickowski, to pick up costly technical fouls. Dennis knows that in the regular season, the games don't mean as much, but when it is "crunch" time he controls his temper and steps up his game. 
Let's analyze the kicking incident. If one watches the replay, all Dennis did was give a little tap which seems to have gotten more of the guy's leg than groin, he didn't wind up and kick him straight. The kick was a tap out of frustration because the cameraman got in his way as he fell out of bounds. Continue to watch the replay and one will see that this cameraman is up for an Oscar as a supporting actor in a drama. He rolls around on the ground for ten minutes complaining of pain until the stretcher arrives and takes him off the court. The cameraman then files a lawsuit against Rodman, and less than a week later drops it to settle out of court. If he was in so much pain why did he settle out of court? Just another person trying to get money from professional athletes. Rodman did apologize several times to the man he refused to accept it. Rodman also apologized and became friends with Scottie Pippen after the nose-breaking incident. This incident was blown out of a proportion like the other ones over the years. 
Dennis has won three NBA champi­onships in his career, and is probably the main reason why the Bulls were able to win the championship again. Don't criticize Dennis for antics, because his play says it all. He may look like a freak and act like a freak, but #91 will always be cleaning the glass whenever a shot goes awry. 
GENE BRTALIK Freshman Stanford Hall 


A challenge for students to think before eating 
Dear Editor: 
As I walk across campus every after­noon, I watch the big brown doors open and close. Students walk into the build­ing in need of something, their eyes glossed over with desire, their lips smacking at the thought of what awaits them. What I find even more interesting are the students as they leave. Gone are the glossy eyes, departed is the perspi­ration from salivating lips. Now present are bulging bellies, and sighs of relief. I wonder if they even think about where their sustenance comes from, how many hands have gone into ensuring that their desires are immediately met. I wonder if any of them stops to think about the people who are denied access through the big brown doors, the people who create the nourishment, but never par­take in it. As the students leave, most of them take a paper with them, a paper which informs them of the current events in .their sheltered and insouciant lives. It is to them that I address this let­ter. Perhaps you are one of them. If you are, I encourage you to consider my proposition, a proposition which takes little effort on your part, but will benefit millions of the world's inhabitants. 
Many of you have seen the advertise­ments on television. They irritatingly interrupt "ER" or "Friends" with pleas for help for the starving children, the untouchables and unreachable some­times several thousand miles away. The advertisers expect you to empty your pocketbooks to feed these unseen mal­
. nourished young ones. Not many of you can lind four quarters for the washing machine, let alone support someone in the unindustrialized world! Of course, there are excellent human-rights clubs to join and associations to volunteer for. But the time that is left after you com­plete academics and work is precious. Joining another group or volunteering may be too time-consuming and you just cannot do it. This does not make you cold or heartless. I know that many of you wish there was some way you could help the starving and undernourished. There is a way. I have developed a five step plan which is almost painless for you to follow, and will indirectly help reduce the pain and suffering of those both in the US and on the other side of the world. 
Step One: The first step is inwardly focused. Be aware of your biological urges to eat versus social indicators that tell you it is time to eat. Signs of physical hunger can include: a "growling" stom­ach, and lethargy due to lowering blood sugar levels. Boredom, depression, and stress are generally not good indicators of physical hunger. Deciphering the dif­ference between physical hunger and psychological need will ensure your body gets only the food H actually requires, and thus food will not be wast­ed. (Maybe you will lose a few pounds in the process!) 
Step Two: Once you start to interpret the difference between physical and psy­chological indicators, start paying atten­tion to what you eat. Keep a food diary for one week, noting how much of each food group you eat. For those of you who hate to write anything down, even keeping a daily mental tab on what type of food you eat is helpful. 
Step Three: Once you are aware of how often you eat different types of food, start to focus on how many times a day you eat chicken, turkey, pork, and, especially, beer. The American myth that everyone must have meat with every meal is so well ingrained into peo­ple's thoughts that you may not even be aware oi how much meat you consume daily. Two to four servings of meat a day is a typical level of consumption for many Americans. 
Step Four: This is the most important step. Challenge yourself. Every day, find some non-animal source of protein to substitute for meat. Beans, nuts, whole grains, and soy based products are all good substitutes for meat. If you eat meat two to three times a day, try cut­ting out just one serving. If you eat meat once a day, go vegetarian for the day. Have a "Meatless Monday" or a "Fleshless Friday." It really is not as dif­ficult as you might think. 
Step Five: If you can complete step four regularly, congratulate yourself. 

You may now count yourself among those wh,o "help the children" and increase the world's food supply. Why? How? Here are two tidbits of informa­tion that will encourage you to reduce your meat consumption: Every one pound of beef requires nine to sixteen pounds of grain, wasting 96 percent of the grain's calories, and all of its carbo­hydrate value (Whit, 1995, 81). By tak­ing just four quarter pounders out of your monthly hamburger consumption, you have saved up to sixteen pounds of grain. When combined with the constant work of groups lik-e Amnesty International to lessen political strong­holds on food, this grain can go to the homeless in Chicago or be a dinner for sub-Saharan Africans. As most of us know, water is a precious resource. It takes considerably more water to clean, feed, and shelter animals than it does to water grain fields or vegetables. The dif­ference is so substantial that "It takes less water to produce a year's food for a pure vegetarian than to produce a month's for a meat eater." (Whit, 1995, 81). You can all figure out what kind of favorable impact this would have on the world's water supply. 
The next time you enter the "big brown doors" and pick up your tray to satiate your craving for food, don't blindly take what is immediately avail­able. Spend just a couple of minutes considering what to eat. Your choices may do more than just end your hunger. Collectively, your choices will help end world hunger. 
ALIKA HOPE BRYANT Sophomore OffCampus 





Lost Love or Lost Cause? 
He Said... 

~ 
(Out of five shamrocks) 

By RYAN LYNCH Accent Movie Critic 
D
uring the Spanish Civil War, Ernest Hemingway mused: "Shells are much the same. If they don't hit you, there's no story, and if they do, you don't have to write it." Director Richard Attenborough g.reates an 
emotionally explosive shell in his lat­est work, "In Love and War"; and, in the process, Attenborough proves Hemingway's musing wrong, for this story hit me and I'm the one who still has to write about it. Suspend the misconception that those individuals endowed with Y chromosomes can't possibly favor movies concerned with the ineffable, four-letter "L word." I liked this movie because Attenborough draws fresh, reflective water from the hackneyed and dried­up well of Hollywood love story epics. Transcending the sappy predictability and melodrama of the typical boy meets girl, boy ·loves girl. girl loves boy, boy and girl have sex, put up the picket fence, happily-ever-after genre, "In Love and War" skillfully reveals the forces that shaped the life of one of America's great literary figures. 
"In Love and War" is the true story of the 18-year-old Hemingway's pas­sionate and tumultuous trans-conti­nental love affair with Agnes Von Kurowsky, a Red Cross nurse. 

Hemingway (Chris O'Donnell) is brought back to health by Agnes (Sandra Bullock), after his desire to play soldier leaves him wounded, and then honored as a hero during Austria's World War I drive into northern Italy. The plot winds through a stightly drawn-out and occasionally laughable courting as both Hemingway and his companion, Harry (Mackenzie Austin) endeavor to win over the compassionate and angelic American nurse. World War I closes, and Hemingway comes back to America to await the return of Agnes, with whom he had exchanged the promise to marry. 
The story concludes with a reunion between Hemingway and Agnes at his Michigan cabin, as two lives ripped apart by the brutality of the Great War seek to make sense of a confused and obsessive love-a love which has since become infected with the parasite of pride and the draining dilemma of seek­ing forgiveness. 
Chris O'Donnell's portrayal of Ernest Hemingway invokes the arrogance and charm necessary to separate "In Love and War" from some idealized tale of Shakespearean lovers. O'Donnell, much like beach sand in your bathing suit, is abrasive and unlikely to make the trip entirely enjoyable; but at the same time, this irritation allows the audience to relate to the movie, and jumps from the common track of Hollywood's ever won­derful and unblemished love story male. 
Sandra Bullock turns in an impressive performance as well, portraying a pas­sionate, yet inwardly resolute American nurse. Only the northern Italian scenery is more breathtaking; yet, Bullock proves that she is quite capable of excelling in roles more serious and intellectually demanding than as Sylvester Stallone's sidekick ("Demolition Man") or Keanu Reeves' unrealistic and undeserved chauffeur ("Speed"). Always collected, Bullock's Agnes is the character by which the plot moves, and her power sets the male characters in orbit to revolve around and glow in her reflected light. 
The headliners' performances are fur­ther reinforced through "In Love and War's" magnificent backdrops and equally dazzling music. Bouncing from the ragged and rolling mountains of northern Italy to candlelit boats gliding upon Venice's canals, the film provides an equally positive experience for those turned off by the dialogue or even the story itself. Battalions charge over lush, green-blanketed hills and Italians bril­liantly dance before ornate and vividly colored frescoes. The only element missing is the scent of espresso and the taste of gelato, as the accordion and strings softly lead one by the ears into the quaint streets of 1918 Italy. Simply bella ... 
__,_.=--,..--.,.,.-~~~~-.,.,..,.,-..,....-..,.,...........,.~ 
She Said... 
(Out of five shamrocks) 
By SUSIE SOHN Accent Movie Critic 
P
erhaps because "In Love and War" attempts to relate the lost inno­cence of one celebrated American writer, Ernest Hemingway, this film embarrassingly strives to be epic. 
What prompts one to invest two hours in the epic events of Hemingway's youth has more to do with what the movie doesn't try to undertake rather than what director Richard Attenborough actually tries to accomplish. "In Love and War" shines in its simplicity, and steers clear of the typically sappy Hollywood melodrama. 
The movie's conclusion reeks of the ordinary; but ordinary is human, rele­vant, and puts the mirror to our own inner feelings about what it means to fight, to love, and to face the fears that stop us from doing both. This depiction of Hemingway's early life, at the very least, reminds us that love isn't always about walking hand and hand into the sunset. Sometimes pride and hurt make an equally consuming partner. "In Love and War" hints at Hemmingway's life­long commitment to both. 
1. 
Star Wars -Special Edition 

2. 
Jerry Maguire 

3. 
Scream 

4. 
Metro 

5. 
(tie) Beverly Hills Ninja 


5. (tie) Evita 
7. 
In Love and War 

8. 
The Relic 

9. 
Grid Lock'd 

1
0. (tie) Michael 


10. (tie) Mother 
Source: Associated Press 
Though set in northern Italy during World War I, "In Love and War" is not about love, and except for a cliched sequence of shots of men being bloodied and mangled to the surge of overly dra­matic violin music that is supposed to substitute as emotional intensity for today's violence desensitized film view­er, it has little to do with war either. Though the war brought these lovers together and further signaled suffering, numerous deaths of friends and patients were at best banal and at worst mean­ingless. I often found myself wondering who was the dying guy whose face was all bandaged up or whose memory Ernie was honoring when he accepted the deceased's cape. 
The ineptness (the director's, not mine) of identifying these people, though frustrating enough, was even worse when reflected in the depressing­
1. 
Fled 

2. 
Kingpin 

3. 
Eddie 

4. 
Phenomenon 

5. 
The Rock 

6. 
A Time to Kill 

7. 
Matilda 


B. Island of Dr. Moreau 
9. 
Escape from L.A. 

10. 
Tin Cup 


Source: Blockbuster, South B~nd 
in one of several comeback roles from his childhood stint as the cute little redhead in "Facts of Life," is Harry, a minor character who remains a close friend of Ernie's and is also interested in Agnes. Harry is the strongest char­acter if only because he is the only one that acts his age. Annoying as the "Kid" (Ernie's nickname because he looks -and acts -so young) is as he professes his love for Agnes, she somehow falls in love with him despite their seven year age differ­ence (she i~ 26). and the fact that she constantly has to act as if she were his kindergarten teacher. Granted, she is his nurse and can thus fairly claim some authority Qver him. This is especially obvious when the three characters go on a picnic and Ernie tries to impress Agnes with what is ostensibly boyish charm. Leg in a cast and recovering from gangrene, he jumps into a lake to show that he can elicit emotional concern from a pro­fessionally distant Agnes. 
Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema A little later in the day, Agnes has to ly unilinear character development of Agnes and Ernie; Was Ernest Hemingway really such a jerk? And an average one at that. Especially exas­perating was the upbeat patriotic flute music woefully aspiring to epitomize the all-American innocence of this boy­genius. "In Love and War"could have been the script for a season's worth of afternoon soaps; I even recognized, in the dialogue, lines my friends and I would say as nine year-olds playing Barbie. So much for the script and music. 
The actors of this film are big names of talent in their own right. Chris O'Donnell plays a 19-year-old "Ernie" Hemingway, who falls in love with a Red Cross nurse named Agnes, played 
by Sandra Bullock. Mackenzie Astin, 
ask Ernie and !larry to stop bickering when the two of them fight for her attention. Because Ernie has to get in the last word, she asks him -not con­descendingly, but rather sounding like a schoolteacher reprimanding a kid for throwing sand at another kid in the 
sandbox-if he can behave and be nice to !larry on the way home. Of course, he cannot, and in a can-you-top-this mode he instead insults Agnes by claim­ing, to Harry, that he and Agnes slept together the night before. Agnes slaps this brat Hemingway in a scene vapid enough to take the satisfaction out of it even for me. 
After Agnes and Ernie consummate their Jove in a brothel (for lack of any other "hotel" in the area). Ernie is assigned back in the states. Since Hemingway was a writer, the element of letter-writing between these lovers seems appropriate. Instead, the banality of these letters that claim marriage and eventually send the message of break­up merely contributes more to the flat­ness of these two characters. The direc­tor incompetently expects the viewer to make a leap and fancy the patriarch of suicide-driven personalities as this chirpy adolescent "Kid." 
Perhaps because Ernest Hemingway is such a looming figure in American imagination, the character development did not rank as a necessity for the film. Otherwise it seems the director wanted to emphasize how innocent Hemingway actually was in order to show how, through love and war, he lost his opti­mistic heart. If that is the case, "In Love and War" is an embarrassing effort. Though the acting is far from awful, lack of character development ruins any chance for a heart-wrenching romance, or even a story. This film is not graced with the emotional intensity character­istic of the Bildungsroman. However, not any more to its credit, "In Love and War" did move me several times to think of abandoning the film altogether and walking out. 

Monday, February 3, 1997 
RELIC: BEEN THERE, DONE THAT 
The Relic 

Starring: Penelope Ann Miller, Tom Sizemore, and James Whitmore 

By MARK TORMA 
I
Accent Movie Critic ----------------.----.­'ve long been a fan of adventure movtes, espect~lly 
ones that makes t_rudging aro~~d in strange foretgn .. 
lands look anythmg, but excttmg and glamoro_us. From the classes I've taken in my Anthropology maJOr, I can tell you that it never is, but that's besid~ the point right now. This is the silver screen we're talkmg about, not real-life Brazil, Burma, or Benin. . 
Anyway, as I was sayi~g, adventure movtes are one thing, but horror movtes are anot~er. There, _th~ adventurer seems to have it easy, untll he (when ts 1t 
ever she?) finds a dark, ominous artifact, and from 

that point on his life is a 
"Jurassic Park" pseudo-sci­
living hell. That, in a very 
ence, a monster who looks
small nutshell, is about 
like "Predator's" dog (they
one-third of the entire plot 
shamelessly and inexplicably
of "The Relic." However, I 
copied the insectoid mouth).
raise a point of contention 
and the disaster movies of the 
with the opening scenes, in 
seventies, "The Relic" is.noth­
which John Whitney, 
ing new, and therefore, noth­
anthropologist with 
ing scary. Of course there's
Chicago's Field Museum of 
tons of gore, dismembered
Natural History, is partic­
bodies, and lots of scenes
ipating in a religious cere­
where YOU CAN'T SEE THE 
mony among native 
MONSTER, BUT YOU KNOW
Brazilians. It sure seems to 
IT'S THERE. Unfortunately,
me that he's doing field 
we've all seen "Jurassic
research, collecting data 
PhotocourtesyofParamountPictures Park", or a~ le_ast.. watc?ed
and descriptions of their 
Penelope Ann Miller plays a sleuth with style in "The one of the Ahen movtes. 
which is: Two, all this harping over details in the open­ing shots which offend my academic sensibilities is the only worthwhile and/or noteworthy thing to say abo';lt this movie. That's it; that's all, nothing else. For thts article's (and my editor's) sake, however, I of course can think of something else, something that will hope­fully help you to decide whether to rent this movie or watch old Bulls highlights instead (Guess what? Jordan hits the shot. Sorry I ruined it for you). 
"The Relic" stars Penelope Ann Miller (from "Carlita's Way", which nobody but two roommates in St. Ed's have seen), Tom Sizemore (from many cop/action movies, all of which escape me, which js n_ot 
surprising), James Whitmore (the old guy w~o c.?mmtt­ted suicide in "The Shawshank Redemptwn ), and many even more inconsequential people (sorr~, Lind~ Hunt) with nondescript names (notable exceptwn: Cht Muoi Lo who should win the "Name Far More Intriguin'g Than Your Character" Award). Miller, Sizemore, and Whitmore are all good guys; of course, only the two young ones survive. Really, the only bad person in the movie is Lo (if it's Chi, I apologize), who is. certainly neither WASPish nor glamorous, and may have been the only one. 
A convenient mixture of 
traditions and lifestyles, but Relic."
when events take us back to Chicago, we learn that he was merely there to col­lect "relics," and other ancient artifacts. That makes him an archaeologist, and not a cultural anthropologist at all. 
Why is all this important? For two reasons: One, it confirms rriy Three Laws of Anthropology in Movies, which are 1) movie adventurers never used to be anthropologists, and now, they all are; 2) these anthro­pologists are always archaeologists, never cultural spe­cialists; and 3) all of them are either Indiana Jones or the victim of a horrible curse that only more scientifi­cally oriented heroes can overcome. Thus I lay down the gauntlet at Hollywood in defense of my beloved major, which my friends will laugh at even more now. 
I haven't even arrived at the second reason yet, 
• RENTAL REVIEW 
Even if somebody retreated 
from society twenty years ago, they're sure to have seen "Jaws", and so the audi­ence for "The Relic" has now shrunk to only those under age seven who can't possibly appreciate the chemical basis for the movie's premise. All the better; the most real enjoyment that can be gleaned from this film is probably the laughter at the ridiculous running gag about Chicago cops with a connoisseur's taste for New Age coffees. 
To wit, "The Relic" leaves much to be desired. My advice: desire more (not much more). and go rent "Species". I know, it's just another trashy horror mo~ie with horribly underused talent, but the anthropologtst is an anthropologist, and the monster is a heckuva lot better looking. What can I say, I like my man-eaters blonde. 
Video Pick of the Week 
"THE BROTHERS McMULLEN" 
By JOHN BARRY Accent Movie Critic 
I
t took a while to find a film worth recommending to the entire student population. I wanted a film that was meaningful, entertaining, funny, and yet still not seen by most American movie-goers. I chose "The Brothers McMullen" because it is a small-budget film that somehow surpasses the quality of many big-bud­get Hollywood products. 
"The Brothers McMullen," the story of three adult Irish Roman Catholic brothers living in New York, begins ·at their father's funeral. At the ceremony, their mother tells her· son, Barry (Edward Burns) that her true love is living in Ireland, not lying six feet under, and she leaves after giving her son a final piece of advice: "Don't make the same mistake I did;" she mar­ried due to pregnancy, not love. Later Barry and his brother Patrick move back into their childhood home -alongside their third brother, Jack, and his wife. 
Now, this might sound to you like a sappy, slow­paced sloth of a drama, but the opposite is true. This movie is a hilarious comedy, that will keep you laugh­ing. 
The three brothers all face a similar dilemma: what do they want out of life? Throughout the movie, they address such issues as family, love, adultery, premari­tal sex, and religion. Their views shape each other's lives and forges stronger family bonds in the process. 
Barry (Edward Burns who also wrote and directed ) swears that he never wants to get married. Patrick (Mike McGlone), providing a foil to his brother, is a hopeless romantic who desires that eternal commit­ment. He debates whether he should try to save his current relationship, one which is slowing down in passion, but speeding up in commitment...or take the risk of looking for a new romance. He also wrestles with his religion: Catholicism basically tells him he will go to hell because of his lifestyle (premarital sex, birth control, et. al). This soft heart turns towards Barry ­not exactly the man to go to for advice OJ1 love. 
And then there's Jack (Jack Mulcahy) -the eldest brother who at first appears to have found true happi­ness. He and his wife, Molly, are the stereotypical hap­pily married young couple. Or so they seem, then Molly expresses her wish to have children, then Jack ponders whether he is REALLY willing to have sex only with this one woman for the rest of his life. 
With Barry giving the advice, Patrick decides to break it off with his longtime girlfriend. Jack's loyalty to Molly ends when Barry's former girlfriend decides she is" interested in married men. Jack foolishly thinks he can not only control a five-year marriage losing fire, but also successfully maintain an illicit affair. 
And even Barry struggles with his single life princi­ple: never commit. Several chance encounters with the same beautiful actress, who doesn't easily return Barry's affections, starts his own doubt in his beliefs. 
This movie is simply an extremely fun show. The skillfully written dialogue flows naturally, and the con­versations are hysterically on the mark. Although this film is low in budget, it certainly does not skimp in tal­ent-all characters act with great skill, and the audi­ence will find something intriguing about each one. 
Not only is this an amazing comedy, it's a great late­night conversatio.n piece as well. I feel that a movie is only "great" if you continue to think about it long after the tape ends. This one will easily inspire those pro­found 3 a.m. discussions to extend our procrastination. 
YOUR SOAP OPERA UPDATE 
HERE! Accent is looking for some hard-core soap fans to write weekly updates on your favorite soap. Ifyou like to write and are interested, please con­tact Joey at 631-4540. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 3, 1997 
•NHl 



Bruins top Rangers, Detroit breaks losing streak 
By KEN RAPPOPORT in front off a pass from Brian we have to get ready for the over the Dallas Stars. First-place Dallas is five Associated Press Writer Leetch. New York cut Boston's next one." Kozlov's 17th goal -and points ahead of Detroit in the lead to one when Messier Washington played the game fifth game-winner -came Central Division. The Red NEW YORK -scored on a rebound at 11:19. without Peter Bondra, sus­after Dallas defenseman Wings are 6-8-3 against divi­
The Boston Bruins scored Boston defenseman Ray pended by the league for a Sergei Zubov couldn't control sion rivals. three goals in less than four Bourque was held scoreless kneeing incident with a bouncing puck played high Detroit once again played minutes of the first period and one night after becoming the Florida's Ray Sheppard in into the Stars' end by Detroit's without forward Sergei held on for a 3-2 victory over Bruins' career leading scorer. · Saturday's game. Bondra's Tomas Sandstrom. Fedorov, who is still suffering the New York Rangers on Bourque had a goal and two suspension is indefinite, pend­Kozlov dug out the loose from a pulled groin. Sunday night behind the goal­assists Saturday night in ing a hearing early in the puck and backhanded it past tending of rookie Rob Tallas. Boston's 3-0 victory at Tampa week. Dallas goalie Andy Moog. 
AVALANCHE 5 

Tallas, one night after Bay to move past Johnny "I think we're coming out of Sandstrom's assist was his MIGHTY DUCKS 2recording his first NHL Bucyk with 1,342 points. a down time," Washington first point in three games shutout at Tampa Bay, pro­coach Jim Schoenfeld said. since Detroit acquired him ANAHEIMtected a one-goal lead for vir­"We got three points in two last week in a trade with Pitts 
Stephane Yelle scored the

tually half the game after WASHINGTON 2 games." jburgh. 
tiebreaking goal 21 seconds

Mark Messier scored at 11:19 Jason Dawe gave Buffalo a Steve Yzerman, Brendan
BUFFALO 2 into the third period Sunday
of the second period. 1-0 lead midway through the Shanahan and Martin 
night and the Colorado

The biggest of his 28 saves first period. He took a pass Lapoil1'te also scored for
BUFFALO, N.Y. Avalanche beat the Anaheim 
came in the third period when from Michael Peca and scored Detroit, which was 0-4-2 at
It took a while, but Michal Mighty Ducks 5-2. 
he stopped Vladimir Vorobiev his 14th goal. home since a 5-4 win on Dec.
Grosek found the net at last. The Ducks had won four in a 
on a breakaway with 11:44 Kelly Miller tied the score at 26 over Washington.
Grosek scored with 4:31 left row at home, one short of the
left and then Niklas 1 with 11:28 remaining in the Joe Nieuwendyk had two
in the third period Sunday team record.
Sundstrom on another break­third period. Miller's eighth goals and Zubov another
night, lifting the Buffalo Keith Jones capped
away 30 seconds later. goal came on a snap shot from while Jamie Langenbrunner
Sabres to a 2-2 tie with the Colorado's three-goal third
Tallas has started 14 of the the slot. added three assists for Dallas. 
Washington Capitals. period with his 19th of the
Bruins' last 15 games in relief Konawalchuk then scored Lapointe broke a 2-2 tie
Buffalo had its winning season. He also had two
of No. 1 goaltender Bill his lOth of the year on the when he dug the rebound of a
streak stopped at three. The assists.
Hanford, who is out with ten­power play. Vladimir Konstantinov shot
Sabres finished their club­Mike Ricci and Claude
dinitis in his shoulder. Grosek's gola came after away from Moog and flipped it
record seven-game homestand Lemieux also scored for the
Barry Richter, Ted Donato Garry Galley appeared to past his glove 8:45 into the
with a 4-2-1 record. Avalanche and Adam
and Brett Harkins scored as make a no-look pass from the third period.
Grosek's 11th goal was his Deadmarsh added his team­
the Bruins took a 3-0 lead right side of the Washington But Dallas tied it again
first since Jan. 5. leading 22nd goal for the
after one period. Vorobiev net. when a Mike Modano shot
"It's been frustrating," defending Stanley Cup cham­
also scored for New York. "I was pulling it across to stopped in the crease behind
Grosek said. pions.
With the victory, the Bruins try to shoot it and it rolled off Detroit goalie Chris Osgood
"I had a breakaway against Paul Kariya and rookie
improved their record at my stick to Grosek," Galley and Niewendyk tipped it in at
Chicago, another open net last Darren Van Impe scored for
Madison Square Garden to 6-said. "I'd like to say I had 11:45. 
game and I hit the post. It's the Ducks. 
2-0 in their last eight games eyes in the back of my head, Osgood was in goal for the
important that I get chances, Yelle put Colorado ahead 3­
and to 4-2-0 in their last six but I was definitely trying to first time since missing five
and tonight I buried it," he 2 when he got a stick on
overall. pull it, to fire it. games with a pulled ham­
added. Ricci's backhanded centering
Richter beat Glenn Healy "I haven't scored since string.
Steve Konowalchuk had pass and deflected it over
with a shot from below the October, so it's probably a Zubov scored on the first
given the Capitals a 2-1 lead goaltender Guy Hebert's
right circle at 11:16 of the good thing it went to him," he shot Osgood faced just 22 sec­
with 6:12 remaining. shoulder.
first period to give the Bruins said. onds into the game, and
Dominik Hasek made 27 About three minutes later,
a 1-0 lead. Nieuwendyk's first goal gave
saves for the Sabres. Jim Deadmarsh stuffed a rebound
The Bruins, ranked 22nd in the Stars a 2-0 lead in the
Carey made 22 saves for under Hebert. Jones' goal
the NHL in power-play effi­DETROIT 3 first period.
Washington. capped the worst defensive
ciency, then scored two goals Detroit rallied for a 2-2 tie
Sabres coach Ted Nolan was DALLAS 2 third period the Ducks have
with the man advantage as on Yzerman's goal in the first
pleased with his club's perfor­played since Dec. 7.
Donato connected at 12:24 and Shanahan's in the second. 
mance. DETROIT They have allowed more
and Harkins at 15:06, both Moog, 3-0-2 in his last five
"We made it through pretty Vyacheslav Kozlov scored 80 than one third-period goal
from outside the crease. starts, finished with 24 saves
good," Nolan said. "We break seconds into overtime Sunday only twice in their last 20
The Rangers came back and Osgood had nine.
the season into 13-game seg­night as the Detroit Red Wings games.
with a power-play goal of Dallas had just two shots in
ments. The fourth one just ended a six-game home win­Hebert made his 19th con­
their own at 1:02 of the sec­the third period and none in
ended (with 17 points), and less streak with a 4-3 victory secutive start in goal.
ond, as Vorobiev scored from overtime. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  I ILOST & FOUND I Volunteers Needed for FOOD­SHARE: Help Feed The Homeless for 1 hour a week.  JAMAICA,MON!! CANCUN,BAHAMAS, IT CAN BE YOU. JAMAICA $339,FLORI­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  NIEN! Hey Nerea- 
Spring Break Bahamas Party  HELP!!  If interested call Mike 234-1078.  DA$99. SPRING BREAK '97  The highest quality color copies  How am I supposed to make it  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  DON'T MISS OUT.CALL NOW 234­ are now available at  through the rest of today without  
Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  Lost my class ring between Sarin, SDH, and D6. Great  FOR RENT  3396 ASK FOR CHRISTINA. CALL NOWII  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  you. Guess we'll have to make up for it tomorrow....  
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  sentimental value. If found,  Phone 631-COPY  
springbreaktravel.com  please call John at X2213 or drop by 319.  Homes for Rent for 97-98 ADT Security 232-2595  TICKETS  G- My train of thought just left the sta­lion... and I wasn't on it.  
Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  3:10a.m.......  
Room With Kitchen Near Bars  $$REWARD$$  4 Bedrm. iurnished house, sec. sys- I need one JPW ticket for one or all  I just called to say I love you?  We need the tonic of wildness.  
$119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime  of the events. Please call Shannon  
Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa  Lost: Sterling silver ring with black  location, 109 N. St. Peter  at X1833. Thanks.  So it's OK if Keenan Review makes  
Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­ writing on one side and an  233-9947  fun of the Sacred Cow ....  Elk burgers are good!!  
el.com 1-800-678-6386  engraved flower on the other side. If found, please call Katy at x1490.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  PERSONAL  Bring me .... a shrubbery!!  So Heather,  
-REWARD­ SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  Did you get any soup this week- 
SPRING BREAK  IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS  Spring Break Bahamas Party  It's just inevitable that you're going  end?  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  Lost:  2773097  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  to run into someone you know  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  Brown Leather Wallet  Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great  when you're buying that sort of  17 months and still none  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  Sun. Night  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  thing ....  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  Reward If Found  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  Amy and Sue,  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  Brad or Rob x4784  2773097  springbreaktravel.com  ND SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS  The facts of life are all about you!  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  $10.00  
BIGGEST PARTY. FREE INFO 1-800-488·8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  WANTED  I I  FOR SALE  Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $1191 Daytona-Best Location $139!  CALL MIKE at 288-0116 Phelan- Greg, The Lakers outfit is so becoming. I can't believe you paid $160 for that  
BEST HOTELS & LOWEST  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­um mattress set. Never used still in  Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav- I love you ... The PTB  thing  
PRICES for SPRING-BREAK  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  el.com  1-800-678-6386  Yes, he definitley has those eyes ...  
BEACH destinations. Florida,  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  So what little hattie has the initials  
Cancun, Jamaica, etc. CALL NOW  NEAR LAKE PLACID  (219) 67 4-2352  JAZZERCISE  SBD?  Elk burgers rule!  
for rooms or SIGN-UP as INTER­ 1-800-786-8373  Very close to campus  
CAMPUS REPR. 800-327-6013  WOODBRIDGE I-BEDROOM  277-0111  Chica- Saturday night, the non-Mardi Gras,  
http://www.icpt.com  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT· Earn up  CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900  It was a wonderful evening. Next  inaugural (or would that be corona- 
to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries,  TA'MARA 273-5166  A secure, loving couple wishes to  time it will be warmer at 5 a.m.  lion?) kegger .... stay tuned for  
THE COPY SHOP  parks, resorts. Airfare!  begin a family by adopting an  -Ghe  details ....  
LaFortune Student Center  Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  '92 HONDA ACCORD LX.  infant. We can provide a bright,  
Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  Call {919)918-7767, ext.A154.  BEAUTIFUL. $8,500 OR B/0.  happy future for a child. All allowable medical & legal  Suzanne­Don't hate me because I'm  Hey Liz--did YOU get any soup this weekend?  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  233-5537.  expenses paid. Please call  Methodist. I know the truth.  
Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30 a.m. • Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon -6:00p.m.  EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, etc. teaching simple conversational English. No languages/teaching  94 2 dr Jeep Cherokee Sport air cruise 2 yr. ext warranty. Must sell, returning to school. Good condition,  1-800-292-5363 or call our attorney collect at 217-352-1800. Karol & Rob  -79 That's what I love about· high school girls: I keep getting older but they  Hey Kids ­What did I hear about Mardi Gras?!? Marc's treatin' {but who's got the baby?) ... Casinos or beads, I can't wait 'til the 7th, 8th,  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends  exp. required. (919)918-7767, Ext. W154.  $12,500/or best offer. 233-1020  Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Method 674-6933  stay the same age.  and 9th!!! (Not the 15th...)_ MK  


Monday, February 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 







Finance Club 
APPALACHIA SPRING BREAK
Meetin 
SEMINAR 
March 9-14, 1997 

Did you miss the deadline??? 
uesday, February 4th, 1997 
A LIMITED NUMBER OF SPOTS ARE STILL

:00PM 
AVAILABLE!!!! 


2038-COBA 
APPUCATION DEADLINE EXTEN"DED TO: TUESDAY FEB. 4, 1997
:,\,ttt1ftA!i't\mttM1i.tWolrtb'Afta~~ml,~~-•w.••w.•-..Jwm~V e Will diSCUSS: 
APPUG.TIONS: Available at the Ce.'lter for Social Concerns 
Finance Forum 
RNAL DEADLINE: TUES. FEB. 4, 1997@ 5PM 

For further M.J. Adams, 634-3880 or lauren Stein, 634-3690 information: Rachel Tomas Morgan, 282-2109
Elections 
Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-.5293 

-, 

En garde... 

The Observer/Rob Finch After their strong weekend showing at Cleveland St., the Notre Dame women's fencing team improved to 21-1, while the men moved to 16-2. 
See tomorrow's Observer for coverage 
The Notre Dame-African Students' Association 
ents

0,\y ?res ?rou an African Feature Fi m from Zimbabwe 
by 
Godwin Mawuru 




''Neria•• 

Patrick and Neria, through shared hard work succeed in building in a comfortable living. But with Patrick's tragic death begins Neria 's nightmare. Claiming that tradition and law are on hts side, Patrick's brother Phmeas tries to "inherit" everything. Neria watches helplessly at first, believing there is no legal or moral recourse for her. But when Phineas takes her children, Neria decides she must fight back and eventually learns that law and tradition can both be on her side if she rematns strong and intelligently fights for her rights. 
followed by a 
PANEL DISCUSSION on 

Women·s Inheritance Rights In Traditional and Modern Africa 
featuring 

Prof Ann Loux, English Dept.,Saint Mary's College (moderator) Prof Douglas Agbetsiafo, Economics Dept., !USB Kagwiria Mbogori, Lawyer, CCHRL, Law School, Notre Dame 
Wednesday, February 5 at 7 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo • free admission • 
htt ://www.nd.edu/..... ndasa 

• PRO BOWl 

Brunell leads AFC to victory 

By KEN PETERS 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU 
An investment banker made a kick for a $1 million at the Pro Bowl on Sunday, a day when the NFL's best couldn't buy a field goal. 
The Indianapolis Colts' Cary Blanchard, who missed two earlier field goals, finally hit a 37-yarder 8:15 into overtime to lift the AFC to a 26-23 victory over the NFC. 
Blanchard missed a 41­yarder that would have won the game four minutes earlier, while Carolina's John Kasay missed three attempts for the NFC -the last from 39 yards with 11 seconds left in regula­tion. 
Jacksonville's Mark Brunell, who threw for 236 yards and one touchdown and took the AFC on a 66-yard drive to Blanchard's winning field goal, was voted the Pro Bowl MVP. A 43-yard pass to New England's Ben Coates keyed the winning drive in just the second Pro Bowl to go into overtime. 
Cornerback Ashley Ambrose kept the AFC in the game with a Pro Bowl-record, 54-yard interception return for a TD. His interception against Kerry Collins in the fourth quarter ave the AFC a 16-15 lead. 
Green Bay's Brett Favre played only through the first series of the second quarter. He was replaced by Washington's Gus Frerotte, who was filling in for the ailing Troy Aikman. Brunell, who 

Le-w-is Hall Grab'n Go Bags 
on sale Monday Wednesday, February 3-5 
Lunch and Dinner at the North and South Dining Halls This is your chance to help save the world for $5.00 
Don't be left out!!! 

replaced John Elway on the AFC team, took over for Drew Bledsoe of the New England Patriots. 
Frerotte and Brunell, though, did not disappoint the crowd of 50,031. 
Brunell completed 12-of-22 passes, including an 80-yard TD pass to Oakland's Tim Brown that tied the score 23-23 with 44 seconds left in regula­tion. Frerotte immediately marched the NFC back down the field, but Kasay's kick was off and the teams headed to overtime. 
Frerotte completed 13-of-25 passes for 193 yards, including a 53-yard TD throw to Cris Carter of Minnesota. 
Brown had five catches for 137 yards, and St. Louis' Isaac Bruce had seven receptions for 104 yards for the NFC. 
Detroit's Barry Sanders was the leading rusher with 11 car­ries for 59 yards, including a 6­yard touchdown, and Curtis Martin of New England led the AFC with 13 carries for 48 yards and a 3-yard touchdown. 
Favre led the NFC to scores the first two times it had the ball, including a 5-yard TD pass to guard Randall McDaniel of Minnesota on a trick play where he lined up as a receiv­er. Favre completed 6-of-11 passes for 143 yards. 
Blanchard, whose other miss came from 55 yards, made a 28-yarder in the second quar­ter. 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, February 3, 1997 
• WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 



Vols scrape past Ole Miss, UConn stays strong 
By TOM SHARP 
Associated Press Writer 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 

Abby Conklin made a jumper just inside the 3-point line with eight-tenths of a second left Sunday to lift No. 9 Tennessee to a 74-7 2 Southeastern Conference victory over Mississippi. 
The Lady Vols (16-7, 4-3) led by 16 points midway through the first half and by 15 early in the second, but Mississippi (13­7, 3-5) chipped the lead away behind Christy Sides, who had 16 points. 
Tiffani Johnson led the Lady Vols with 16 points and 13 rebounds. Chamique Holdsclaw had 15 points, Kellie Jolly 14, and both Conklin and Misty Greene added 10. 
Tennessee led 45-30 early in the second half when a 3-point­er by Sides started a 9-0 run for Mississippi. Another 3 -the Lady Rebels made 11-of-22 treys on the day -by Anita Milons tied it 4 7 -all with just under 14 minutes left. 
Five 3-pointers in a six­minute span kept Ole Miss in the hunt after that. The last one by Regan Seybert came with 
5:07 left and tied the game 66­all. 
It was tied 72-all with 37.7 seconds left when Mississippi called time out in its own end to set up a play. The Lady Vols defense forced a shot clock vio­lation, however, and Tennessee took over with 13.7 seconds left. 
On the Lady Vols' first offen­sive foray the ball was slapped out of bounds under the Tennessee basket with three seconds left. After each team called a time out, Conklin came off a screen, took the inbounds pass, turned and fired in the game-winner. 
CONNECTICUT 98 
PROVIDENCE 68 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Nykesha Sales scored 21 points and Carla Berube added 18 as No. 1 Connecticut contin­ued its string of blowouts, beat­ing Providence 95-68 Sunday. 
UConn (20-0, 11-0 Big East} dominated every facet in reach­ing the 20-victory plateau for the fourth straight year and recording its 27th consecutive league victory. The Huskies held the the Friars (11-9, 6-6} to 37 percent shooting while making 54 percent of their shots and dominated the boards 48.-36. 
UConn's victory margin is 28 points per game, and no team has been closer than 11 points. 
Providence, winner of eight of 11 coming in, took its only lead, 4-3, when Nadine Malcolm made a layup. The Huskies responded with an 18-2 spurt that included eight points from 6-foot-7 center Kara Wolters. 
The Friars closed to 11 but the Huskies put the game away with a 17-1 run, showcasing their balance by getting scoring from six players during the stretch. 
Wolters finished with 16 points, while freshman Shea Ralph provided her usual spark of the bench with 14 points, six assists and only one turnover. 
Malcolm led Providence with 27 points and Meghan Hinds added 13. Kerri Chatten, aver­aging 17 points, made her first shot but no others and scored 3 points. 
The Friars made their only run after falling behind 38-12. Hinds started the 12-3 spurt with a jumper and Mandy Saunders ended it with two free throws to cut the deficit to 41­24 at 3:56. 
An officials' timeout gave allowed the Huskies to regroup and they responded with five straight baskets -four layups and a 3-pointer by Rita Williams to take a 52-24 lead. 
Providence got a jumper by Malcolm and a 3-pointer by Hinds to close to 54-32 at half­time. 
UConn placed four players in double figures during the half, with Sales leading the way with 13 points. The Huskies also had 16 assists to just six for the Friars. 
It was more of the same in the second half, with the Huskies never allowing the lead to dip below 20. In a play that illus­trated UConn's unselfishness, Williams whipped a half-court pass to Berube, who caught it in the air and gave a touch pass to the hustling Wolters for a layup and an 83-52 lead with 9:23 to play. 
About the only areas where the Huskies struggled were on 3-pointers (4-13) and free throws (7-16). 
KANSAS 67 NEBRASKA 59 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Freshman forward Lynn Pride scored 15 of her 19 points in the second half as No. 12 Kansas rallied from a dozen points down to beat Nebraska 67-59 Sunday night. 

Panini is Italian for Sandwiches..• 
these unique Pressed sandwiches are served hot and !!rilled with your favorite in!!redients. 
Where did Panini OriE!inate? 
ln ItalY. Panini have been afavorite in EuroPean restaurants. delis and coffee shoPs. 
Do I Have to FlY to ItalY to TrY One? 
No! You may have one ri!!ht here at Your favorite Martin's Store! 
With the Jayhawks (16-3, 7-1 Big 12) trailing 46-34 and 10:17 remaining, Pride made two free throws to ignite a 23-6 surge that paved the way for Kansas' ninth straight victory over Nebraska. 
The spurt was capped by a basket from Patience Grayer that gave Kansas a 57-52 lead with 3:56 remaining. But Nicole Kubik hit a 3-pointer, and Anna DeForge made one of two free throws to pull Nebraska (16-2, 6-2) within 57-56 with 2:43 left. 
But the Kansas defense stifled the Huskers, and Tamecka Dixon hit two free throws to widen the gap. 
Kansas held Nebraska to just four field goals in the last 10 minutes, all of them 3-pointers by Kubik, who led the Huskers with 16 points. LaToya Doage added 13 points and DeForge 11. 
Dixon added 17 points for the Jayhawks. 
Kansas was dominant at free­throw line, where it was 19 of 25 compared to 8 of 13 for Nebraska. The Jayhawks also were dominant on the offensive boards, pulling down 19 rebounds under their own bas­ket compared to 12 for Nebraska. 
Kansas fell behind 8-1 in the first four minutes, but fought back to take an 11-10 lead on Dixon's free throw with 12:19 remaining in the half. 
The Huskers opened the sec­ond half with a 9-0 spurt led by DeForge, who had five points and two assists in the run. 
Nebraska held its double-fig-

TEAM RECORD 
1. Connecticut 19-0 2. Old Dominion 18-1 3. Stanford 21-1 4. Louisiana Tech 19-2 5. Alabama 17-4 
6. North Carolina 18-1 7. Georgia 16-4 8. Virginia 15-4 9. Tennessee 15-7 
1o. Texas 14-3 
11. Texas Tech 13-5 12. Kansas 15-3 13. Florida 15-5 14. LSU 18-1 14. Vanderbilt 13-6 16. Wisconsin 14-4 17. Clemson 14-6 18. Arkansas 15-4 
19. Notre Dame 18-4 
20. 
S. F. Austin 18-3 

21. 
N. Carolina St. 14-8 22. Duke 14-6 


23. 
Michigan St. 16-3 

24. 
W. Kentucky 15-5 25. Illinois 16-4 


The Observer/ Sue O'Kain 
ures advantage until the mid­way point of the second half. 

Campus Fellowship: Only God can improve your life. Come on the Campus Fellowship seminar this week­end and find out how. Call Mark, 634-2195 (NO) or Kristen 284-5237 (SMC) 
Club Coordination Council: Attention club offi­cers! Registration packets for the 1997-1998 school year are now available in the Student Activities office, Room 315 Lafortune. Call Student Activities at 1-7308 or the CCC at 1-4078 with any questions. 
La Aliamza:Dance at the esc Friday, Feb. 7 at 10 pm to 2 a.m. Admission for $1, $3 for non-members-so come pay $5 for semester dues and receive member benefits 
Marketing Club: Interested in helping on the web page? Call 1-9330 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 

-~-~---· ---____..,...--~~-~---~------­
Monday, February 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA
Overcoming obstacles 


Jordan, Bulls topple Sonics 
ByJIMCOUR 
Associated Press Writer 
SEATTLE George Karl lost a psychologi­cal battle with Michael Jordan. 
Trying to challenge Jordan's pride, the Seattle SuperSonics coach said this week Jordan was afraid to go to the basket and was trying to protect him­self in the latter stages of his career. 
''I'm not scared to go any­where on the court," said Jordan, who poured in 45 points to lead the Chicago Bulls to a 91-84 victory over the Seattle SuperSonics on Sunday. 
In a rematch of last season's NBA Finals, Jordan hit 19-of-28 shots -16 of them jump shots -as the Bulls won their sev­enth straight game and their 16th out of 17. 
"When teams give me the jump shot, I'll take it," Jordan said. "If they take away the lanes, I'll go for the jump shot" 
A somber Karl tried to back away from his pregame com­ments about Jordan. 
"I never tried to get into his head," he said. "I said Michael is a great jump shooter, which he is. I've never said anything derogatory about him. He's a great player." 
Jordan's teammates had some advice for KarL 
"If I was coach Karl, I'd be quiet," Ron Harper said. "To say anything about Michael's game is ridiculous." 
Said Hersey Hawkins of the Sanies: "Yeah, he is shooting a lot more jump shots. But he's 


L ove 
makihg them." 
Payton wasn't around to talk about the game afterward, but before the game said it didn't pay to tillk about -or to ­Jordan. 
"If you try to get into his head, instead of 25 he'll get 50," he said. 
Earlier this month, New York Knicks coach Jeff Van Gundy said Jordan tries to "con" his opponents. 
"His way is to befriend them, soften them up, try to make them feel he cares about them," Van Gundy said. "Then he goes out there and tries to destroy them. The first step as a player is to realize that and don't go for it." 
Right after hearing Van Gundy's remarks, Jordan went out and scored 51 points in the Bulls' 88-87 win over the Knicks. 
The Bulls -and Jordan ­showed not much has changed since last season's NBA Finals. Jordan remains the best player in the league and the Bulls are still a better team than the Sonics. 
Jordan led the Bulls to a 4-2 series victory over the Sonics last June. 
The Bulls beat the Sonics with Dennis Rodman last spring. They improved their record to 8-1 without the suspended Rodman. 
For Jordan, it was his third highest scoring total of the sea­son. He had those 51 against New York and 50 against Miami. He had the most points by a Sonics opponent this sea-
HaPPY 

19th 
Birthday 
DORN! 
Your Siegfried Girls 
1 and Casa de Flanner 
~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER 
son despite being guarded by Gary Payton, last season's NBA Defensive Player of the Year, for part of the game. 
"The other guys (Scottie Pippen and Toni Kukoc) couldn't get into a rhythm so I took it upon myself to be more aggressive," Jordan said. 
"When rode the tails of a great offensive performance by Michael," Bulls coach Phil Jackson said. 
"You saw one guy out there who was awesome," Harper said. "He was all by himself doing his thing out there." 
The Sonics thought Jordan got some help from the officials, but the facts showed otherwise. He only went to the free throw line six times. 
"Right now, MJ is on a roll," Sam Perkins said. "One-on-one, he gets the calls. That makes it tough as a defender. I guess we needed to double-team him more today." 
The Bulls opened a 19-point lead early in the second quar­ter, led 50-39 at halftime and watched Payton lead the Sonics back within 2 points. Then, they let Jordan perform his magic again. 
When Jordan sank a 3-point shot with 5:3 3 to go to put Chicago in front 88-70, a dis­couraged Payton, knowing he'd met more than his match again, exchanged looks with a smiling Pippen. For once, Payton didn't have anything to say. 
Seattle came back with 10 unanswered points, but Detlef Schrempf missed a 3-point shot and Payton, who led the Sonics with 24 points, was called for an offensive foul against Steve Kerr. 
Jordan had 26 points in the. first half on 11-for-17 shooting, including a 3-point shot from just inside the half-court line at the end of the first half. 
Payton poured in 14 points, including three 3-pointers, as the Sonics cut their halftime deficit to 2 points, 60-58. 
Jordan responded with three straight jump shots and then found Jason Caffey under the basket with a pass from mid­court for a 68-58lead with 1:37 left in the third quarter. 
The Bulls' defense was almost as terrific as Jordan. It held the Sonics to a season-low 84 points and a season-low 36 percent (25-for-69) from the field. ·­
~OBSERVER 

is accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
PEACE CORPS 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be 
"THETOUGHEST:JOBYOU'LL EVER LOVE,. 
comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre
Peace Corps Representatives 
Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply.
will be on campus 
February 3-5 
Information Table: 



Business Manager
February 3 -4, Hesburgh Library Lobby Information Seminars: 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's
February 3 

interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants
St. Joseph County Public Library -7:00 pm should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic 
~ \.

February 4, LaFortune Hall: 
understanding of accounting principles.
Fireside Chat-12:00 pm 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m. Thursday, February 6, 1997. For additional information about the position contact Business 
Center for Social Concerns -7:30 pm 

Manager Matt Casey at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief Liz Foran at 631-4542, or stop by the office 
FOR MORE 

on the third floor ofLaFortune. 
INFORMATION CALL 1-800-424-8580 

~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER 
www. peacecorps.gov 
~--~~-----­
page 18 

The Observer • SPORTS
..... 
•NBA 

Pacers use Best for victory 
Indiana comes back for last­minute victory 
By HANK LOWENKRON Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Indiana Pacers dug a 
deep hole for themselves and 
then climbed back for a dra­
matic 92-90 victory over the 
New Jersey Nets on Sunday. 
Travis Best hit a go-ahead 3­pointer with 39.4 seconds to play and Reggie Miller scored 28 points as Indiana Pacers came back from a 20-point deficit for its third consecutive victory. 
"I feel confident any time a situation like that comes up," Best said of his 24-footer. "I was wide open.... I didn't want to force anything. There was no question in my mind on taking the shot." 
New Jersey, which got 32 points from Kendall Gill, had only one field goal in the final six minutes after leading 79­72 with 8:49 to play. 
"Travis hit the biggest shot of his young life in this build­ing," Miller said of his 24­year-old backcourt mate. "You have to have different guys willing to take that big shot. It makes you a much stronger ball club." 
Derrick McKey picked up an assist on the go-ahead basket when he rebounded his own miss and passed to Best for the basket that gave Indiana a 

91-90 edge. McKey then 
blocked two shots by Gill as 
the Pacers held on for the vic­
tory. 

"It's tough any time they 
clear out and go one-on-one. 
But Derrick did a real good job 
getting a hand up," Best said 
of McKey, who declined to 
speak with reporters. 
"Best hit a big shot and they 
played good defense," Gill 
said. 

Despite the loss, New Jersey 
coach John Calipari saw a lot 
he liked from his team. 
''I'm really happy with the way our team played tonight. They (the Pacers) turned up the heat on defense and did a great job." 
"We played through Kendall (at the end) because I thought it was our best option. It worked all game long," Calipari said. "This effort I can live with." 
McKey had eight of his 12 points in the final quarter, including a 3-pointer that gave Indiana its first lead of the second half-80-79 with 7:13 to go. 
New Jersey then held the Pacers to four free throws by Miller in the next four min­utes, and the Nets led 90-86 with 2:05 remaining. 
Rik Smits, who scored 16 points, made a layup with 1 :45 left to make the score 90-88 and set the stage for Best's shot. 
After a pair of jump balls, Gill drove to the basket with 
3.3 seconds remaining and was blocked by McKey. Miller was fouled in the scramble for 
the ball and made the first of 
two free throws to end the 
scoring. 
However, it was the play of 
the entire Pacers team that 
allowed for the come-from­
behind victory. 
"It was a complete effort 
from all the guys," Smits said. 
"A lot of guys did a good 
defensive job at the end. 
Derrick fMc Key] was out­
standing." 
Free throws made a signifi­
cant difference in the out­
come. New Jersey made 13 of 
14 while Indiana was 27-of­
35. 
Dale Davis had 17 points and 10 rebounds for Indiana, his third straight double-dou­ble and fourth in five games. Jayson Williams had a double­double for the Nets with 12 points and 11 rebounds. 
The Pacers trailed 51-31 in the second quarter and 57-44 at halftime, but got back into the game with 10 consecutive points in the third quarter. 
The Nets built their 20-point lead with a 25-9 run as Indiana went nearly five min­utes without a field goal. A jumper by Gill ignited the run 55 seconds into the period, giving New Jersey a 28-22 advantage, and the Nets scored the next seven points before Smits made a free throw with 8:16 left in the half. 
Khalid Reeves hit a 3-point­er and Gill scored New Jersey's next five points, mak­ing the score 48-30. 

\. 
} ­
j
,.,......_ 
Photo courtesy of Indiana Pacers 
Travis Best's three-pointer with under a minute left in last night's game allowed the Pacers to clinch a 92-90 victory. 









The Holy Cross Candidate Program 
An Introductory Seminary Program for College Graduates at the University of Notre Dame 
Holy Cross Candidate Program is a one,year program welcoming college graduates who are seriously attracted to taking a toward investigating a vocation to priesthood in our religious community. Whether they have just graduated from college have been out in the professional world, the "candidates" all agree that their experience is a special time to respond to the 
hts and the attractions which led them to the Holy Cross Candidate Program. Located at Moreau Seminary adjacent to the Notre Dame campus, candidates embrace a two,semester experience that affords ample time to investigate vocational issues. Among the opportunities:
-
time to slow down for more personal prayer 

·tin\~i!~J~~f}~t~Sf~r~1~~~~:;~~S~;!~~d~~e/;~J~:~1ir:s!~s~~!r~;~'d~J~;e~:~~~~~g{~~~tlh5~~~f~~~i~n~:}en;
with regular cation times when the candidate may travel or return home. 
...,.,... ,....., ._..w.._v...... acqu~lhted with the family ~f Holy Cross. Ca~~'ldates enrich and join with religious in fellowship, 
in order to pr ch th.e gospel and address a 
orl'igr66ps foster growth and self~ with one)s peers. 
· year. 

Informational Meeting:

Wednesday, February 5 at 7:oop.m., Alumni Hall Chapel 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Vocation Director 
-< P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631,6385 See us on the Web: htp://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
• 

.--------------------------~ --------------------~--~----------------~---------~---------~~--------------.--.------------------------~--~ 
Monday, February 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• MEN's CoLLEGE BAs«ETBAU.. 
Duke climbs ACC with win over Georgia Tech 
By DAVID DROSCHAK 
Associated Press Writer 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Trajan Langdon scored 17 points and held Georgia.Tech's Matt 1-Iarpring in check with his defense despite giving away four inches, and No. 12 Duke defeated the slumping Yellow Jackets 70-61 Sunday. 
The Blue Devils (17-5, 6-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) moved into a second-place ACC tie with No. 5 Maryland and No. 7 Clemson heading into their Wednesday night show­down with No. 2 and league­leading Wake Forest. 
In addition to Langdon's offense, Roshown McLeod added 17 points for Duke. 
The Yellow Jackets (8-11, 2­7), the defending ACC regular­season champions, fell to 0-7 this season against ranked opponents. Dating back to last season's ACC tournament, Georgia Tech is winless in its last nine games against top 25 teams. 
Georgia Tech's strategy was to post up the 6-foot-7 Harpring inside against the smaller Langdon, but the all­ACC forward started 2-for-8 and only had five points in the game's first 29 minutes. Harpring finished with 18, but got most of his points after Duke had built the lead to as many as 15 with 5:38 left. 
Georgia Tech, which has lost seven of its last nine games, was hanging close to the Blue Devils early in the second half and trailed by just eight points with 14:15left. 
That's when Langdon, com­ing off a career-high 28 points in a win Wednesday night over No. 19 North Carolina, went to work. 
He scored on a free throw, a running baseline jumper as the shot clock was about to expire and a shot in lane within a span of 1:26 as Duke took an 11-point lead. 
The Yellow Jackets never got closer than eight points there­after. 
In the first half, Langdon scored eight of his points dur­ing the tail end of a 17-3 run that gave the Blue Devils a 24­11 lead 6:11 before intermis­sion. He had a pair of 3-point­ers and a one-handed baseline shot within a three-minute period. 
The Yellow Jackets did close to 24-17 as Harpring made his first basket after starting the game 0-for-5. But Duke led by 11 points at halftime after Ricky Price hit a 15-footer, and McLeod made a 3-pointer and a 1 0-foot jumper within a span of 
1:14 near the end of the period. 
Georgia Tech, which has had shooting woes all season, made only 9 of 29 shots in the first half for 31 percent and shot under .500 for the 19th straight game this season. 
ILLINOIS 78 INDIANA 74 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Bob Knight didn't have to look far to find Indiana's biggest problem. The 17th­ranked Hoosiers scored just one point in the first four min­utes of the second half. 
"How important was it? You don't need ... Einstein to an­swer that question," Indiana's coach said after Illinois won 7 8-7 4 Sunday, its first victory at Assembly Hall in seven years. 
Knight benched Neil Reed at the start of the second half, and started three freshman. 
"We need leadership, and I'm going to get it with freshmen, it's just that simple," Knight said. "I've done everything I can to get leadership out of those juniors, and the hell with it." 
Kiwane Garris scored 28 points for the Illini (15-6, 5-4), including seven free throws in the final minute. 
"We knew they were shooting a lot of free throws, so we just had to come in and shoot more than they did," Garris said. "Basically, we were just trying to drive and make them foul us instead of sending them to the line." 
Indiana (17 -6. 4-5). which came in as the Big Ten leader in free throws at 76.9 percent, managed only 62.1 percent. Indiana had nine more at­tempts and three more points from the foul line, but it was the Illinois free throws down the stretch that made the difference. 
"We didn't want to send them to the free-throw line. We still did that way too much, but we got them deep in the second half before they got to the bonus. And our zone certainly contributed to that," Illinois coach Lon Kruger said. "I don't think the zone was great, but it did accomplish some things we were after." 
Indiana trailed 46-34 early in the second half but fought back to take the lead. The Hoosiers led for the final time with seven minutes to go, but Kevin Turner's 3-pointer put the Illini in front for good at 66-65. 
"We didn't actually get the shot we wanted coming off the inbounds play, yet we just played out of it," Kruger said. 
Indiana then fell behind by seven only to close within a point in the final minute. 
" We scratched back and got a lead and then just gave up. I don't know what really hap­pened," Indiana. center Jason Collier said. "We just let it slip away, and there's no reason for it at all. Especially in the Big Ten, you've got to protect your home court. It's just something we shouldn't let happen at this point." 

Garris, who moved past Eddie Johnson into second place on the Illini scoring list with 1,706, made two free throws to give Illinois a 73-66 lead with 59 seconds remain­ing. 
Andrae Patterson's hook and Reed's 3-pointer pulled the Hoosiers to 73-71 with 4 7 sec­onds to go, but Garris made one of two from the line. 
Reed's two free throws with 15 seconds left closed it to 7 4­
73. One second later, Garris sank two free throws to keep Illinois safely ahead. A.J. Guyton made one free throw for Indiana, and Garris made two more free throws with four seconds remaining. 
"I thought Illinois made some really big plays offensively," Knight said. "They paid atten­tion to each other, and when they needed a bucket, they had some definite things they did and they got the basket. Garris was obviously very, very good. We weren't able to handle it." 
Chris Gandy added 21 points and Matt Heldman had 12 points and 11 rebounds for the Illini. 
Patterson led Indiana with 1 7 points, while Reed added 16 and Charlie Miller 14. 
Indiana appeared to take control with a streak of 15 points early in the first half. 
Illinois led 10-4 lead before a 3-point basket by Reed and a tftree-point play by Collier tied the game. Guyton stole the ball and fed Collier on a fast break to give the Hoosiers the lead. Indiana's biggest lead was 19­10 before two free throws by 
I Save $so per person! I 
~ Your student I.D.I 

~~,,~~ m::;:jr&m=mr

OOID lllOOl (ffi]ID, .·--h~o........ 
~:;a 
TAI:E A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL 

TEAM RECORD 
1. Kansas 22-0 
2. Wake Forest 18-1 3. Kentucky 20-2 4. Utah 15-3 5. Maryland 17-4 6. Minnesota 19-2 7. Clemson 17-4 8. Cincinnati 15-4 9. Louisville 18-3 
10. Arizona 13-5 
11 . Iowa State 15-3 12. Duke 17-5 
13. New Mexico 16-3 14. Villanova 16-5 15. Stanford 13-4 16. Michigan 16-5 17. Indiana 17-6 18. Colorado 16-4 
19. North Carolina 13-6 20. Xavier 15-3 21. Tulsa 17-5 
22. Texas Tech 13-5 23. Texas 11-7 24. Marquette 14-4 
25. South Carolina 15-5 
The Observer/ Sue O'Kaln 
Gandy gave Illinois its first points in a span of 5:30. 
Garris got his first basket on a 3-pointer with 8:20 to go. Minutes later, two more bas­kets by Garris started a 19-8 Illinois streak, and 3-pointers by Garris and Heldman in the final minute put the Illini ahead 37-33 at the half. 
CELEBRATE A 
FRIEND'S • 
BIRTHDAY WITH A SPECIAL OBSERVERAD. 


A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5 2:00 and 7:00P.M. 
john Huston's 




Moby 
Dick 
starring Gregory Peck and Orson Welles 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE 
. "L_ 
-


_,.._ 
_,. 
-
~ ­

The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Irish netters off to best start since '92 season 
By JIM ZALET A 
Sports Writer 
On Saturday, the 29th ranked Notre Dame Men's tennis team improved its already perfect record. The now 6-0 Irish defeated William and Mary 6-1 in Virginia. 
This is the best Irish start since the 1992 season. The team's impressive victory over Illinois gave them t-he needed momentum that led them into the weekend at full speed. 
The Irish were again led by senior Jakub Pietrowski and freshman Ryan Sachire. Pietrowski defeated Lee Harang in two sets, 6-4, 6­2, at No. 1 singles. Pietrowski, paired up with sophomore Brian Patterson, also won the No. 1 doubles match in a tie breaker 9-7. 
Living up to the expecta­tions his teammates and coaches had for him, Sachire defeated William and Mary's Christian Jordan 7-5, 6-3. Sachire and Trent Miller won the tie breaker to win the No. 3 doubles match 9-8. 
Senior Co-Capitain Ryan Simme and Junior Danny Rothschild won the No. 2 doubles match to sweep the doubles point for Notre Dame. 
The Irish won all but one 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Junior Danny Rothschild teamed up with co-captain Ryan Simme for a victo­ry in the No.2 doubles match this weekend against William and Mary . 
.. 
of the singles matches. After losing the first set at No. 3 singles, Simme regrouped and came back to defeat Trevor Spracklin 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
Simme is continuing to be a leader for the Irish as he continues to improve on his 85-52 record. Patterson defeated Steve Williams in two sets. 
Patterson won the tie breaker in the first set and won the second 6-3. Coach Bobby Bayliss predicts that he can be one of the best players in the Midwest this season. Patterson is unde­feated in singles this sea­son. 
Rothschild nearly shut out his opponent as he defeated Ian Boettcher 6-1, 6-1. Rothschild is described an the quintessential team player by the Irish coaching staff. 
"Danny is one of the best athletes on the team," Bayliss commented. 
The only Irish defeat in the match was in No. 6 sin­gles. Junior Vijay Freeman won the first set was was defeated in two straight by Anshuman Vohra 3-6, 7-6, 6-3. 
The Irish continue their season when they face Kentucky on Feb. 11 when they travel to Lexington to face the Wildcats. 






Cushing Auditorium 
8 P.M. 
Sponsored by ' Judicial Council Questions? call council headquarters at 1-4553 



Monday, February 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
couldn't convert them. It takes tracked it down and fired the
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
concentration and focus. It's puck into the slot where it just you and their goalie.. looked as if Irish senior captain 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 You've got to be ready to shoot Terry Lorenz would be able to it, to get a rebound, or to gain control. However, as he Jason Sessa then set up a goal screen him." tried to send the puck out of the 
Belles use intensity to 
by junior Joe Blaznek 77 sec­The Boys were unable to do middle, he inadvertently swept onds later, and the hosts took so, but their opponents were. it into the upper right corner of the first of three leads in the Senior Mike Peron received a the net past a stunned Eisler. 

prepare for final stretch 
By SARAH GILLEN The competition was very game, 2-1. 
clearing pass from Grahame The Lakers made it 2-0 in the 
Sporrs Writer strong Saturday against 
Junior captain Steve Noble and muscled his way along the second period on Joe Blaznek'sUniversity of Indianapolis. 
re-tied the game for Notre left endline before touching a 20th goal of the season. FromThe Saint Mary's swimming "This meet was very chal­Dame midway through the sec­shot on goal. Eisler stopped the a near impossible angle at the
and diving team has been lenging both physically and 
ond, tipping home a rebound shot but senior Mitch Lane was bottom of the right circle, themaking waves at Rolfs Aquatic mentally because our team is shot after another Seyferth in position to nudge the puck fired the puck past a screenedCenter this past week. The recovering from the Depauw power-play blast from the left into the net. Eisler into the upper left cor­Belles competed at home last meet in addition to strenuous point (9:35) and thereby giving "That really took the wind out ner. Later in the period they
Thursday against DePauw workouts," Kelleher 
the Irish only their fourth mul­of our sails," quipped Noble. also got a pair of goals just 52University and then again on expressed. "I am very pleased tiple-power play goal game of What broke the Boys' back seconds apart to ice the game.
Saturday against University of with everyone's performance this season. occurred just 7 seconds later, "They got lucky goals," statedIndianapolis. during this intense time." 
Notre Dame had an excellent when Joe Blaznek gathered a Cotnoir. "They had deflections,The women are amidst the Freshman swimmer Michelle opportunity to take the lead faceoff in the left circle and bounces -the got only 1 goal in most difficult part of the sea­Samareta put in another top late in the second period, as beat Eisler with a quick shot. my book." 
son due to many dual meets performance with a second 
they had a 5-on-3 power play. "That was a miscommunication "Our power play was badand strenuous workouts. place finish in the 100 breast They failed to convert, howev­on our part," elucidated tonight," stated Noble of the 0­According to senior captain with a time of 1:13, just sec­er, and Sessa countered for the Cotnoir. "It was an all-around 8 mark. "We've just got to cap­Shannon Kelleher, the team is onds off of a school record. 
Lakers, scoring his eighteenth bad goal and it shouldn't have italize on our chances."
holding togethe.r well despite Diving coach Dan Slattery ..
goal of the season and netting a happened." What does head coach Dave
the demanding schedule. expressed pleasure with his _ 
3-2 lead. The following night the Poulin say to a squad that,The dual against Depauw team as well. During the last But the sea-saw game contin­Lakers stormed to a 4-0 victory fighting for the final spot in the was a close finish with two meets the squad has dove ued, as senior defender Ben over a Notre Dame squad that playoffs, suffers through aDepauw at 127 and Saint unopposed to the other teams. 
Nelson again tied the game in played its fifth game in eight weekend that could deject their Mary's 103. DePauw had a "I am pleased with the way dramatic fashion with a break­days, all against nationally spirits? "He told us to stay pos­considerable advantage in the the Belles are working togeth­away goal midway through the ranked teams. The Lakers got itive," recalled Noble. 
number of team members, but er as a unit," Slattery said. 
third period. The stage was set on the board with a shorthand­"He just emphasized thethe Belles were able to keep The unit was made complete for what Conoir later called ed goal in the first period with importance of the days to comethe scoring close by attaining this semester as sophomore "the turning point of the week­just 50 ticks left on the clock. [in reference to this weekend's
high place finishes in their Katie Ryan returned from 
end." The Irish had many Lake Superior forward Ben games against Ohio State],"
races. studying abroad. 
chances to get their fourth goal Keup led an odd-man rush stated Cotnoir. "He said weKelleher performed well in The Belles are completing but couldn't do it. down the right side but his cen­need 4 huge practices becauseher events, including a per­the final steps of their season "We had good chances," tering pass wound up along the this is the biggest weekend ofsonal best in the 1000 free with intensity as they prepare emphasized Noble. "We just left boards. Bryan Fuss the season." 
with a time 11:06. Coming in physically and mentally for a close second place for this high quality performances at 
'We didn't play as hard as we could have the 

event was junior swimmer the Liberal Arts Championship whole game," Peirick said. 'We're still looking 


Hoops
Allison Smith. 'meet Feb. 21-23. 
for to play our best basketball for forty min­continued from page 24 utes.' 
The Irish will come back home for a contest 

ties at the charity stripe as they went 15-21 against Syracuse this Thursday before they 
from the line. head back east for their biggest game of the

Please RecYcle 
"It was nice to have a solid win," Peirick year thus far against the Connecticut Huskies. commented. 'We've had some trouble putting UConn is undefeated and can be found atop teams away recently.' the national polls as well as the Big East 
Still, the Irish look for continued improve­standings with Notre Dame right on their

The Observer 
ment and consistent domination. heels. 
RETU  RFALL 77• • nt you from  
to:  
Notre Deadline:  a continu­s may be unts ding. who are currently eir 4th year: ent Accounts if you have not received your form.  


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 3, 1997 
before he committed. But (6-2, 205, 4.55) of Husk, TX favorites had not changed. had not offered him a schol­during his visit, Irons knew brought the Irish commit­lie would schedule a press arship during the visit and
Recruits 
that Notre Dame was where ments number up to 15. conference on January 26 to that he would look at Baylor continued from page 24 he wanted to be. He commit­While just 17 years old, announce his commitment to and Texas A&M. On 
ted to the Irish before leaving Denman led his team in every Florida State. Wednesday, McAllister com­Williams loved the snow and the campus. category from bench press to The nightmare, part 1: mitted to ole Miss over the committed to the Irish shortly A reported visit with Dean vertical jump and is co'nsid­After such a magnificent Irish. after his visit. David Link of the Notre Dame ered a running back with string of commitments, the On Friday, Brown would 
Jason Murray: All-Law School was considered a great vision and speed. Irish thought they could do no commit to the Irish, only to American running back Jason deciding factor in Iron's com­"[Denman] is a strong, wrong as the final official have Texas papers announce Murray (6-2, 235, 4.5) of mitment. durable Eddie George type visit weekend, January 24-25, on Saturday that he commit­Belle Vernon, PA is a prime Though he played line­runner," Burton commented. approached. The players vis­ted to Texas. example of the second part of backer in high school. Irons is Many schools recruited iting were teammates Greg Minor would only say that recruiting wisdom. considered one of the top five Denman as a linebacker, and Brown and Travis Minor, there were "pluses and 
In July, Murray was consid­defensive ends in the country. one Texas newspaper went as Andra Fuller, Dulymus minuses," to his visit. He is ered a lock for the Irish. All "Grant has built a national far as to rank him ahead of McAllister, John Teasdale and still considering Louisiana Notre Dame had to do was reputation for his play at line­State, Notre Danie and 
offer a scholarship. But after backer the past two years," Florida State. 
a slightly disappointing visit Burton said. "He is a terrific Yet, during this, the Irish 
in December, Murray decided athlete and dominating run­did receive one commitment.
•••• Theseath!t!h~!~offi~r!!e !ffi!!~!,
to visit Ohio State. Both Ohio stopper." 
John Teasdale: Humor has .

in January and may commit to the class of 2001. 
it that Holtz told offensive considered the late leaders who was shorter and not as 
State and Northwestern were "He's better than [Jarrett] 
Jan. 17·18 KEYNON COLEMAN Ol lineman John Teasdale (6-6, for Murray. versatile as Grant is," Wallace 
Alta Lama, CA 255, 5.0) that the Irish would The delay in Murray's deci­explained. TONY DRIVER save a scholarship for him.
ATH 

sion concerned his wish to Jabari Holloway: All-Louisville, KY Yet, after the coaching play tailback instead of full­American tight end and change, Teasdale was not
ERIN HUIZINGH Dl 

back. He fashioned himself a defensive end Jabari Tempe, AZ contacted until late Jerome Bettis or Ron Dayne Holloway (6-4, 235, 4. 7) of lB December. He was named
GRANT IRONS 

style of runner. Tyrone, GA became the sec­The Woodlands, TX USA Today Honorable "[Murray] is a tailback with ond commitment from the Mention all-American.
DARCEY lEVY ATH 

size and speed who will end football banquet (Kevin Denver, CO "Three year starter wherev­up at fullback or linebacker Dansby was the first). er he goes," Wallace said. 
HODGES MITCHELL ATH 

in college," Burton stated. Holloway had wavered back Dallas, TX The nightmare, part II: After accepting that he des­and forth between Tennessee While Teasdale had provided
IFE 0HALETE s 

tined to play fullback in col­and Notre Dame, but after a Los Alamitos, CA some hope, the walls contin­lege, Murray committed to the visit to Tennessee, he decided ued to crash around Davie
ERIC REESE RB

Irish. He credited new offen­to play for the Irish. While and the Irish. In a week that
Long Beach, CA 

sive coordinator Jim Colletta's one of the more dominating had three sure-thing recruits
ED STANSBURY QB

use of fullback Mike Alstott at defensive ends in the country, El Paso, TX commit elsewhere directly Purdue for his decision. Holloway wishes to play tight after their visits to Notre
TJ TURNER LB

Anxious to have him recon­end in college. Dame, other recruits began to
Hillsboro, OH 

sider, Ohio State promised to "Jabari is a pass rushing make their decisions.
KURT VOLLERS Ol

stop recruiting Tony Driver if fool off the corner, but Remember the first part of
Anaheim, CA 

Murray would instead commit prefers to play tight end," recruiting wisdom? About
BROCK WILLIAMS DB

to them. A real generous Wallace stated. southern recruits staying
Hammond, LA 

offer by the Buckeyes consid­As a junior, he had over 130 South. This is where it comes
ANDREW WISNE Dl

ering that, like the Irish, tackles, caused eight fumbles, in.
Jenks, OK

• Driver was no longer consid­blocked six kicks and scored All through December and
GREG BROWN ATH

ering them. two defensive touchdowns. January, three southern blue­
Baton Rouge, LA

Murray is considered one of Holloway was named USA chip all-Americans, lineback­
RUFUS BROWN RB

the top 30 tailbacks and top Today all-USA Honorable ers Austin Kemp and llugh
Belzoni, MS

five fullbacks in the country. Mention all-American and is Holmes and safety Robert
ANORA FULLER WR

He was also named USA considered the fifth best rush Carswell, were thought to be
A/dine, TX

Today Honorable Mention all­end by NRA and the fifth best favoring the Irish. Then with­
DULYMUS MCCALISTER DB

American. jumbo athlete by SuperPrep. in a span of three days, Kemp 
Morton, MS

Grant Irons: You can still According to Tom Lemming, committed to Tennessee,
TRAVIS MINOR RB

hear the 
Holloway could be an all­Holmes committed to Florida
Baton Rouge, LA 

screams American on either side of the and Carswell committed to
JOHN TEASDALE OUTE

f r o m ball. Clemson.
Kansas City, MO

Michigan Darcey Levy: Athlete With only Driver and Minor
IMMY WILLIAMS DB

when USA Darcey Levy (6-2, 190, 4.5) of left on the board, and neither
Baton Rouge, LA

Today all­Denver, Co was another play­of them favoring the Irish, the 
The Observer(Tom Roland

USA first er that the Irish stole from luck of the Irish had run out. team all­Michigan. While not consid­Jimmy Williams. Fuller and Davie had 21 scholarships to American ered an all-American, Levy The Driver saga: Probably McAllister have openly admit­give and only 16 were filled Grant Irons Mattison had a strong senior year and the most surprising visitor ted that Notre Dame had with no other recruits left. (6-5, 225, began to attract the attention during the first recruiting always been their favorite The first love factor: They 
4.6) of The Woodlands, TX of the big name programs. weekend in January was USA school, and along with are pearls of wisdom because committed to the Irish. Though he was a running Today all-USA first team all­Teasdale were considered they are true. Part two of 
Grant is the younger broth­back in high school, Levy will American Tony Driver. locks if offered. Williams was recruiting wisdom states, er of Michigan all-American probably play safety for the Driver was one of the ~ilent a star athlete thai would be a recruits tend to return to Jarrett Irons and was consid­Irish. commitments to Lou Holtz great cornerback for the Irish their initial favorites in the ered a lock for Michigan. Yet, "He has the complete pack­earlier in the year, but and tailback Travis Minor end. For the Irish this when Davie stole defensive age," Wallace said. "He is a dropped the Irish from con­was USA Today's Offensive became their saving grace. coordinator Greg Mattison strong runner with excellent sideration after Holtz and Player of the Year. When February began, the from Michigan in December, acceleration. Some think he Dave Hoberts left. On Monday, Williams com­Irish were back in the Driver­the Irish crept into the race. will be better on defense. After an in-home visit by mitted to Northwestern say­s seat. 
Grant had made visits to Could even be a linebacker in Bob Davie, Driver reconsid­ing the Irish had too many See Tuesday's Observer for Michigan, Ohio State, college." ered and decided to make an cornerbacks. On Tuesday, the final installment of Notre Northwestern and Texas A&M Anthony Denman: As the official visit to Notre Dame on Fuller admitted that the Irish Dame Recruiting.
-and 
had told his parents they seventh and final commitment would discuss his decision of the week, Anthony Denman 
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Presentation and Information Session 
Thursday, February 6, 1997 6:00-7:30 pm Foster Room LaFortune Student Center 
All students interested in learning more about the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 
Interviews -Full Time and Summer Intern 
Friday, February 7, 1997 
Check with Career & Placement to schedule an interview time. 
Grant Irons at linebacker. MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
----------~~~-~­ 
Monday, February 3, 1997  The Observer • TODAY  page 23  
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD  ED LEADER  YOUR HOROSCOPE  JEANE DIXON  - 



MIKE PETERS 
LARR~ CURLYANPMWOE 
TRVOUTTHE\R NE 
St..AP·ON/5/..AP-OFP£16HT. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Many of your dreams will come true! Make the most of a once-in-a­lifetime opportunity. March brings big changes at work. Letting go of outdated methods will boost profits. Take care of minor household repairs before they become major. A new residence is possible in August or September. A close relationship will enter a period of transition next autumn. A short-term business part­nership proves beneficial. A timely investment will have a big pay-off! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Blythe Danner, actress Michelle Greene, football great Fran Tarkenton, comedian Joey Bishop. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your career accelerates nicely now. Nothing will hold you back if you focus on specific goals. Lasting prosperity depends on your willing­ness to engage in self-promotion. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be wary of fast talkers who want to share your resources. An attractive older individual may have designs on your heart. Give this situation serious thought. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Look to the future with confidence. Beware of making snap judgments that could lead you astray. You need to do some research and weigh your options before making a commit­ment. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A 
change of pace is very welcome 
now. Business from abroad is both 
fast-moving and lucrative. Make 
reservations for a trip overseas. Your 
personal finances show slow but 
steady improvement. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Concen­
trate on projects already in progress. 
Your powers of concentration are 
remarkable. Be cautious when deal­·ing with someone who may envy your reputation for excellent service. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Staying in a positive frame of mind should be easier today. Public rela­tions activities take up the lion's share of your time. Trust your instincts; a friend really does have your best interests at heart. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look 
for ways to hasten career advance­
ment. Consulting an expert may 
open your eyes to new money-mak­
ing opportunities. Take your time if 
pondering a change in employment. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Exercise patience even if eager to 
forge ahead. Higher-ups will be 
impressed by your thoroughness. 
Work quietly to prove that you have 
what it takes for the long haul. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): You will be at your best today. 
Productivity continues to rise-and 
so does your self-esteem! A roman­
tic interlude leaves you glowing. 
Family finances may be difficult. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Be realistic when assessing an 
employment or financial situation. 
Changing horses in mid-stream 
could be a serious error. Your expec­
tations may be too high for others to 
meet. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Anchor your dreams in solid 
achievement. Reaching a coveted 
goal may take longer than anticipat­
ed. Discussing a financial situation 
with experts may convince you to 
apply for a loan to advance a pet 
project. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 
dramatic event will give you a real 
jolt. Seek solitude in order to get a 
true reading of current circum­
stances. Friends are supportive but 
can offer little help. 

DILBERT 
~A.VE '<OU BEEN 

NMPING? YOU'VE
~ 
GOT A. BAO CASE 
I '" i 
OF KEYBOARD 
FACE. 
I 
58 Bridal walkway 59 Not for 60 "Rule Britannia" 
composer 61 Like certain 
dentures 62Tidetype 63 Ground grain 64 Snoozes 65 Remove, in 
editing 
DOWN 
1 Pinocchio, at times· 2 Make art on glass 3 Pertaining to aircraft 4 Lion or coyote 5 Sorer &"Oneof-­days, Alice ..." 7 Money drawer 81985 movie "To Live and Die 

9 Kind of cap 28 Defeats 
10 Face hardship -29 Radio host Don bravely 
30 Skirt type
11 She's a sweetie 

in Tahiti 31 Having a key, in music
12 Wren or hen 32 "Laughing"13 Greek Mars animal 

21 1985 Nicholas 34 Encl. for a replyGage best seller 

Wl514 f"\E LUCK. I'f"i OI=F 10 GET 1"\Y PERFOR~~NCt RE.VIEW. 
\ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Spring 5 Upper-story room 10 Ali who said "Open 
sesame!" 14 Latin journey 15 Material for 
uniforms 16 Arab prince 17 Plot size 18 "Greetings!" 19 Suffix with 
million 20 Chickens that 
lay brown eggs 23 Toward shelter 24 Old French coin 25Mad-­
(Wonderland character) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~7+::-1-:-+=::..f 1-':-Rf-=-1~..;..+-'-+;..;..t"• iii.t-::::+7+.:::-t:':-t:::-8 
'=+:'+=+::o-1 

37 Jurassic Park revival 
~-=;--.,. 22 Buck's mate 

7+=+:::::-f.~"!''"!!!'l 25 Sword handles r.:i-7+3-:+.+.'"1'!"' .-:=:+:+.:.=-.or.::ct:T:-1 26 Cop­38 La--opera house
(negotiate for a 

lighter 390ne's 
sentence) birthplace 
....:...J.-'-L...;;.J.;;.;;.J.;..:cL:.....L:...L::...L.::..J 27 Folklore dwarf 44 Burrow 
u 
= 
~ 
;;" 
c 
"' ~ 
• 
~ 
...• 
., 
!J
.. 
::>
..
.. 
~ 
g 
f. 
WHAT'S 
WI\ONG WITH 
'YOUR FACE.? ) 
45 Ending with nectar or saturn 46--thatbe 48 Rent again 49 Mine vehicle 50 Jane who loved Mr. Rochester 51 Zola novel 
I HAVE. QWERWTIS. IT'S FROM 
WOI\~ING 
TOO 14t\RO. 
52 Ex-Cleveland QB Brian 
53 Intuitive feelings 
54 Where the patella is 
55 And others: Abbr. 
56 Properly aged 28 Pedalers' place 33 Kitchen 

garment 34 Interstate hauler 35 Actress Myrna 36 Attraction for 
winter vacationers in the South 
40--Aviv 41 Followers: Suffix 42--the 
Barbarian 43 Soup crackers 46 --Anderson 
ofTV's "Baywatch" 47 Half of dos 48 Play part 49 Easy-gaited saddle horse 57 Pitcher Nolan 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
_..... 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
The dorm donating the most money by the end of February will win moneyfor a dance. 
Be on the lookout for special collectionse in residence halls this month! 
~~~~~----~~~~--------------------~~~~--~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------­

-





SPORTS 
page 24 Monday, February 3, 1997 
• HOCKEY 

Lakers drown 'Boys' 
last two CCHA wins have spanned twoNotre Dame drops months (January 18 against Alaska­Fairbanks and Dec. 7 against Alaska­
two to Lake Superior Fairbanks). The weekend began auspiciously for 
By CHARLEY GATES 

the Boys on Friday night. Though the Sports Writer 
Lakers held the Irish shotless for the first 15:40 of the game, junior Irish 
The playoff drive for the Boys of 

goaltender Matt Eisler kept them in the 
Winter stalled this weekend as they game, stonewalling the Lakers in the 

dropped a pair of Central Collegiate first 20 minutes and turning away all 16 

Hockey Association games to the Lake shots he faced. Late in the first period,

Superior State Lakers, 6-3 and 4-0, 

the Irish capitalized on a power play.
extending their losing streak to four 

Cotnoir slid a pass across the blueline 
games. 

for freshman defenseman Sean 
"We obviously would have liked a Seyferth, who sent a slapshot from the 

split," explained sophomore defenseman left point that deflected off of junior

Benoit Cotnoir, "but that dido't hap­

Laker goaltender John Grahame and 
pen." 

into the net for a 1-0 lead. 
Nutre Dame (5-14-1) remained in 

The lead, however, quickly dissipated. 
eighth place, with Ohio State and 

The Lakers scored two quick goals in 
Alaska-Fairbanks trailing the Irish by the opening moments of the second 

just one point each, while Lake Superior period to snatch a 2-1 lead. Fifth-yearState (17 -9-4) moved into sole posses­Laker senior Gino Pulente fed sopho­

sion of second place. To put the teams' more Tobin Praznik, who beat Eisler to 

records into perspective, consider the the glove side for the first goal just 39 

following fact: Lake Superior State seconds into the period. Sophomore

picked up two CCHA victories in two days this weekend, while Notre Dame's see HOCKEY I page 21 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Benoit Cotnoir's assist on a key goal was one of the bright spots of the Irish leers' unsuc­cessful weekend games against Lake Superior State. 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 

Squad returns to domination 

Junior Mollie Peirick helped lead the Irish to a sound conference victo­ry over St. Johns on Sunday. 
been pushed to nine. 
Beth Morgan, who was one of five Darners who scored in double figures, lead the way_ in the first stanza with 13 points on five of seven shoot­ing. Six of Morgan's game­high 15 points came in the first three minutes as she ignited a 10-0 run to start the contest. 
"Things were going well for us right from the start," junior guard Mollie Peirick said. "Beth really got us going." 
Peirick turned in a great all­around effort as she poured in 15 points, dished out five assists, grabbed six rebounds, 
and  came  up  with  three  
steals.  
'We came  out in  a  man-to­ 

man defense and we haven't done that all year," she added. "We arc trying to get more variety on defense.' 
In the paint, senior forward Rosanne Bohman got eight of her ten points in the first half contributing on a 16-0 run which gave the Irish a 20 point lead at the break. 
At one point in the second half the Blue and Gold had pushed their lead to 33 as they maintained their defen­sive pressure as they held the Storm to 27 percent shooting in the second half. 
Katryna Gaither played just 19 minutes but was affective as she scored 14 on five for nine shooting. Sophomore guard Sheila McMillen provid­ed a spark of the bench with twelve points. 
In addition to being hot from the field the squad took advantage of their opportuni­
see HOOPS/ page 21 
Irish experience windfall, fallout 
B
y mid-January, Notre Dame's recruiting fore­cast was looking bleak. While many of the players, who had visited in December, had not yet com­mitted elsewhere, time had 
become an .;e~n~e~m~y~.""':"'""':"'""':"'~ 
In re-, 
cruiting there are 
t w 0 
important pearls of wisdom: 
1) The longer a 

southern  Thomas Schlidt  
r c c r u i t  Recruiting  
delays his  Correspondent 

decision, _____,_____ 
the more likely he is to stay in the South, and 2) Recruits tend to commit to their ini­tial favorite despite other leanings in between. 
When Notre Dame's third official recruiting weekend began, January 17-18, the Irish were stuck at eight commitments and Mother Nature wasn't doing the Irish any favors. 
As some may recall, that was the weekend of below zero weather and blizzard conditions, and the Irish were hosting players from California, Louisiana, Texas and Arizona. 
With that snow came something magical, maybe it was just plain Irish luck, but from January 19 to January 23 the commitments came pouring in. 
Kevin Dansby: After January visits to Florida and 
Southern Mississippi, line­backer Kevin Dansby (6-3, 215, 4.5) of Birmingham, AL finally committed to Notre Dame. 
With his brother Melvin returning to Notre Dame for a fifth year, Kevin had been considered a lock. Yet, he made many Irish fans very anxi'ous with his delayed decision. 
During his senior season, Kevin had 171 tackles, 6 sacks and 3 INT's, and was named USA Today all-USA Honorable Mention all­American. 
"One of the top linebackers in the South," Bill Kurelic said. "lie has excellent speed and ranges all over the field to make plays." 
Brock Williams: One of Notre Dame's failures in past years has been their inability to sign top cover corner­backs. While Brock Williams (5-10, 185, 4.4) is not listed among the top corners in the nation, he is considered a natural cover corner and has the potential to be excellent. 
"He's overshadowed by his teammate Fred Booker, but is also excellent," Allen Wallace of SuperPrep com­mented. "He's tough with a good work ethic." 
Going into the weekend, recruiting analysts tabbed Williams as a must have for the Irish. Yet, when the weather turned foul, many thought the Irish had lost this Louisiana native. Surprisingly though, 
see RECRUITS I page 22 
By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
After narrowly escaping their last two contests, the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team was hoping a visit to 4-16 St. John's squad would provide the calm after the storm. 

Muffet McGraw's team dom­inated the Red Storm from the tip as the Irish shot 60 per­cent from the field in the first half and the hosts shot a dis­mal 25 percent. With the 75­47 triumph the Irish remain undefeated in conference play as their record now stands at 19-4 and their win streak has 
vs. St. Johns .,Men's tennis vs. William and Mary 
a;

Tomorrow, 7:30p.m. 
Wednesday, 3:30p.m. 
•Men's tennis remains undefeated 

vs. Syracuse 
Women's tennis at Rolex Nati'l ~ 
see page 19

February 6, 7 p.m. 
., Indoor Championships 
•111111114 

vs.Ohio State 
February 3-6 
• Pacers slide past New Jersey Nets 
~ 

February 7, 7 p.m. 
S¢ 
see page 18
Basketball at Bethel College
.,Track at Butler Invitational 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
February 8 
~ 










