
Tuesday, February 4, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 83 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY' 
• CAMPUS LJFE CtuJNCIL 
Council deems O'Hara response letter inadequate 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN A.sistont News Editor 
Members of the Campus Life Council indieat­
Pd that Vice-President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara "missed the point" in response to two resolu­tions that they sent her after thrir last meeting. 
()'!lara. who is required to n)spond to resolutions that 

one resolution and denied tlw seeond in a letter addressed to Seth Miller. student body presi­dent. The letter was forwarded to all mem­bers of the CLC. 
"l can sec in her letter that she has a lot of 
see CLC I page 5 

Awareness Week seeks to warn of eating disorders 
By MELANIE GARMAN News Writer 
lfave you ever felt the need to lose 10 pounds? If so, how did you go about it? The answers to these questions may appear sim­ple, but they often lead to dangerous reoccur­ring eating pat­terns. 
• see also MEDICAL 

According to 
the National MINUTE, page 9 Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), eating disorders affect over five million Americans each year. Five percent of the sufferers are adolescent and adult women, while one percent constitute the male population. 
"Nationally, approximately 8 to 10 percent of college women will develop symptoms of eating disorders each year," said Nancy Mascott, assistant director of the Counseling 
see DISORDER/ page 4 



• Nonn: DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS 

• ELECTION SCHEDULE 


Notre Dame 
V
oting in the primary election will take place Friday from 11. a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. in in the residence halls and the LaFortune · Student Center; 
See Thursday's Observer for complete pre-election coverage and candidate endorsement. 
.. ~~·,....:!...!:~ 

~· ·\Saint Marv's 
V
oting will take place today in the LeMans entrance of the Dining Hall during meal times. Off-campus stu­dents can vote all day in the off-campus lounge, located on the first floor of Madeleva Hall. If necessary, run-offs will take place Thursday. 
By ALLISON KOENIG News Writer 
The word of the evening was "communication." 
In last night's debate, each of the three tickets for Saint Mary's student body president and vice president raised the issue of communication as it relates to activity, govern­ment, administration and technology. 

Lara Becker and Jenn Cervantes listed the improvement of campus communication through on and off­campus newsletters and a student government web page as their tick­et's most important goals. 
The Nikki Milos/Lori McKeough slate prioritized the continuing reno­vation and addition of technological communications on campus. 
Although new community meeting 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
From improving the credibility of student government to creating a bookstore horseshoe tournament, candidates promised both necessary and frivolous campus improvements at last night's election debates. 
The five tickets for student body president and vice president fielded panel and audience questions to clarify their re~pective goals, plat­forms, and student government experience. Varying degrees of plat­form research and credibility sur­faced in the candidates' answers. 
Bobby Booker and Laura Parker, Matt Barrette and Brian McCaghy, Andy Chica and Jonathan Cano, Matt Griffin and Erek Nass, and Matt Szabo and Mary Gillard each used the debate to elaborate on their intentions if elected. 
Early in the questioning, each tick­et had the chance to highlight their platforms' most important goals. A flurry of summary statements from each group followed. 
"We want the students to have 
fun," Chiea/Cano said. Bather than focusing on specific issues, their platform emphasized being recep­tive to future student input. Improving parking was a targeted goal. The two Flanner juniors repeatedly expressed a willingness to meet with and work for the stu­dent body. They advocated face to face communication and promised every student at least 10 minutes of their time. 
Szabo/Gillard showed one of the evening's most aggressive platforms. Some of their proposals, such as pri­vatizing food services in LaFortune Student Center, were attacked as infeasible. The duo recognized improved representation as a key to all of their platform goals, which ranged from restoring student rights to fighting bookstore prices. 
"The absolute number-one goal is to get a student on the Board of Trustees," Szabo/Gillard said. Representing student sentiment 
was  equally  important  to  the  
Griffin/Nass  ticket.  Reforming  
see NO I page 4  


Tickets cite coiDmunication in debate 

Topics diseussed included the characteristics that deter­mine a strong student boqy leader, how to facilitate com­munication wiihin a group, and how to enhance a feeling of community. 
Inquiries regarding plans to continue the work of stu­dent government were direct­ed at the candidates for vice president; the presidential candidates were later ques­tioned about personal leader­forums were a main platforJ!l of the ship style. 

Meghan McNally/Anne Parente tick­Becker believes that her positionet, they stated that their single most as Regina Hall president has helped
important goal was to institute a 
her leadership style evolve over the

mandatory curriculum for fresh­
past two years at Saint Mary's. man. "(At first] I thought I could control
The debate, which took place in everything by myself, but it doesn't
Haggar Parlor, was attended by 
work that way. I had to learn how toroughly 100 students. Emily Miller, delegate to my peers," she said.

Board of Governance elections com­missioner, moderated the forum. -----------=-=--=-=--:---­
see SMC/ page 5 



Let's Revue: 
BP Fat, 

SMCdumb 
First, thank you to Keenan Hall for a hilari-Bridget O'Connor ous production. The Assistant News Editor 
skits hit on some of the most humor-worthy aspects of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. They also made official what goes unsaid about the attitudes toward women on this campus. 
There is an ongoing conversation on this campus addressing why male-female relation­ships at this school are so strained. Perhaps it is these stereotypes that create much of that atmosphere. 
Do not misunderstand: Keenan did not cre­ate these stereotypes. No female should have been surprised that any of these ideas were brought to the stage -that they were may be the best service that Keenan could have done to foster improved gender relations. 
Every female on campus has caught the ideas in bits and pieces over the years, but rarely can you get all of the stereotypes identi­fied and demonstrated in one three-hour peri­od. Activists for other struggles, such as civil or gay rights, should be so lucky as to have the group from which they seek increased respect compile a list of ways that respect is denied. This could be compared to a student who hands in a paper with the plagiarized pas­sages highlighted for the teacher to save him or her the trouble of picking them out. 
Two of the major themes of the evening were intelligence and weight. One important point was that many skits did include the idea that often, when it came down to it -or at least to the bottom of the case of beer -nei­ther quality mattered all that much. 
Regarding intelligence, two points should be made. One, for the most part, the females on this campus have worked just as hard and are just as bright as the males. This fact seems so obvious, but is clearly in need of reiteration in light of the recent display to the contrary. The second is that if intelligence is really so impor­tant, why is it that it is seemingly so rarely included in the criteria for date selection? It ranks right up there with personality in terms of priority attributes. 
On the subject of weight: it seems ironic that a program that made women of all dorms embarrassed to consume Yo-Cream should kick-off National Eating Disorders Week. Chanting "BP Fat" and showing pictures of a rhinoceros on roller-skates to represent women of various target dorms could not have done a lot to help anyone in the audience who did have a problem. 
Everyone is supposed to realize that weight is not the only thing that guys are concerned with and that media images of the ideal body type for women are unrealistic for most women, but, with that type of display, many women were left to reevaluate the importance of this superficial detail in terms of their self worth. Sure, guys think women should stop scarfing down the Yo-Cream, but later that evening, please, feel free to pop as many beers at 170 calories each as you possibly can before parietals. 
Again, Keenan Hall did nothing to create or promote these stereotypes. They simply made them funny for a night. Well, it's next week and these images don't seem quite so humor­ous. Now they seem real and frustrating. The most frustrating part about them is that, unlike other power struggles, everyone involved in this one has the power to change things. Women: do not cover your Yo-Cream is. shame. There are bigger issues at hand. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Accent 
Derek Betcher Melanie Waters Maureen Hurley Graphics Saskia Sidenfaden Peter Cilella 
Heather MacKenzie 

Production Sports Maureen Hurley Brian Reinrhaler 
Chris Uharr Viewpoint Lab Tech Eddie Llull Katie Kroener 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmuo AT A GLANCE 

Scientists capture unique brain response 
NEW YORK There's a direct connection 
Using sophisticated equipment between the amygdala and the and a bag of stuff that really, brain machinery that processes really stinks, scientists have information from the nose. caught the brain in the act of The eyes and ears don't have saying, "Peee-yew!" a hot line like that, researcher 
When women smelled the David H. Zald noted. No wonder aggressively bad odor, a pair of smells are so instantly repug­almond-shaped structures deep nant or alluring, he said. in their brains kicked into over­Zald, a research fellow at the drive. More pleasant smells Veterans Affairs Medical Center didn't get that response .. in Minneapolis and at the 

Each of these structures is called an amygdala; the brain has two, one on each side. 
They're a key part of the brain's machinery for creat­ing emotional reactions. In the case of a bad smell, their job appears to be to tell the rest of the brain, "Hey, you really hate this stuff." 
The study is the latest to illustrate the tight connec­tion between smells and emotions. Scientists have long known that the link even shows up anatomically: 
Clinton to address nation tonight 
WASHINGTON 

Strange things happen when President Clinton goes to Congress: The wrong speech winds up in the TelePrompTer. The president drones on for 81 minutes, testing listeners' patience. He issues a hollow veto threat. And, to hear the analysts tell it, he's only had one good line in his previ­ous State of the Union addresses. On 


Tuesday night, Clinton rides up to Capitol Hill in a black limousine to deliver his fourth State of the Union address before a joint session of the House and Senate. In the warm glow of post-election harmony, it's likely to be a night full of declarations of bipartisanship and coopera­tion -followed by months of political gamesmanship and hard negotiations. The president works for weeks on State of the Union addresses, refining ideas and phrases, but the rhetorical flourishes are soon forgotten. "Judging by the previous ones, it's just not going to be memorable or terribly important," said University of Virginia political scientist Larry Sabato. "In his entire four years in office," Sabato said, "he has only uttered one phrase that will be historically memorable: 'The era of big government is over."' That was in 1996 as Clinton opened the campaign year. "It was a critical moment for him in his political rebirth," Sabato said. "He's had one home run.' 
Five-year-old overdoses on LSD 
SALT LAKE CITY 

A woman was in jail today on suspicion of drug pos­session and child abuse after police said her 5-year-old daughter ate LSD-laced candy hearts. Suzanna Schroeppel, 23, called for help after her daughter lost consciousness Saturday night. Authorities would not confirm where the incident took place. "(The girl) was in the proximity of the mother and we suspect it was the mother's LSD," said Sheriffs Lt. Steve Alexander. The child, whose name police did not make public, was admitted to Primary Children's Hospital in critical con­dition, and was released into her father's care Sunday. Her mother was booked that day for investigation 
of possession of a controlled substance with intent to distribute and third-degree child abuse, both 
felonies. The drug charge carries a penalty of five years to life in prison and the child abuse charge car­ries up to five years. Hospital officials refused to disclose how much of the hallucinogen the girl ingest­ed. 
University of Minnesota, report­ed the new brain-scanning work Monday in Orlando, Fla., at a meeting of the American Neuropsychiatric Association. 
For the study, 12 women got repeated brain scans while researchers released different smells from plastic bags. 
Moderately bad smells included garlic breath, natural gas and motor oil. Pleasant smells included fruits, flow­ers and spices. 
Shark attacks rower in Australian river 
SYDNEY, Australia 
A hungry shark surfaced in an Australian river, knocking a rower out of her boat and munching on the hull. Andree Mocsari was rowing on the Parramatta River with members of the Leichardt Rowing Club when a strong bump threw her from her single scull. The river flows into Sydney harbor. "When I resurfaced, I saw a shark at the stern of the boat," she said Monday. "I was terrified it was going to come back and bite my legs." Another rower told her to get back in the boat. It wasn't until she reached shore that Mocsari, 49, found the 8-inch bite marks. "It was when I saw those teeth marks that I realized how lucky I was," she said. She did not know what kind of shark it was. Mocsari's ribs were sore from being catapulted from the boat, but she was otherwise uninjured. Last year, an 18-year-old was bitten on. the leg by a shark farther up the Parramatta River when he swam across on a dare. Experts guessed then it was either a bull shark or bronze whaler, which venture into river and canal systems in search of food. However, the shark attack was quite rare for the region, as shark sightings are a rare occurance in either Sydney Harboror the river. Zealous hunting in the harbor killed off sharks earlier this century, and the increasing water pollution has hampered their return. 
Doct9r feeds own drug habit 
HAZLETON, Pa. 
An anesthesiologist stolf) narcotics from people on the operating table to feed his own drug habit, leaving the patients with dosages so diluted they could feel scalpels slicing into their flesh. Dr. Frank Ruhl Peterson, 45, could get up to 54 years in p'rison at his sentencing Feb. 25 for assault, drug possession and other offenses for his role in operations on 12 patients. He pleaded guilty Thursday. "That's probably as low as you can get. He took an oath as a doctor to provide medical services, and then to do this to his patients·is just indescribable," Detective Edward Harry said. The incidents occurred last summer at Hazleton-St. Joseph Medical Center. Hospital officials became suspicious after Peterson's patients complained. A lab tested two intravenous bags Peterson had administered tn patients and found only a trace amount of anesthetic. "When the doctors began, since the patients were under no anesthetic, they could actually feel the scalpel cutting them, and the operations had to be stopped," Harry said. 
• Sm.mt BEND WEATHER 


5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 4.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CCI 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PressurE~ 

H L 6J &'S1 ~ !Zl ~ 8 {) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUOY CLOUDY VIa Associated Press 
Atlanta 64 56 Fairbanks 28 16 New Orleans 74 61 Baltimore 59 35 Honolulu 82 66 New York 46 38 Boston 39 35 Los Angeles 72 50 Philadelphia 52 37 Chicago 36 25 Miami 80 60 Phoenix 72 50 Denver 44 23 Minneapolis 28 St. Louis 38 30 


Tuesday, February 4, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel attacks gender stigmas 

Discussion groups stress relating and dating at ND 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Assistant News Editor 

In its first year of existence, the "Relating, Dating or Vegetating" discussion series began Sunday. The two-part sessions, which scru­tinize the issue of friendships and dating on campus and communica­tion differences between the sexes, were held at Breen-Phillips, Carroll, Pangborn, Flanner, Zahm and O'Neill halls Sunday night and last night with each dorm's brother or sister dorm. 
The first session took place on Sunday night and was titled "Quality Relationships: How Do We Form and Keep Them." It explored topics including the relationships of students to one another on campus, the attitudes towards dating and making friendships, and the differ­ences between male and female perspectives on relationships. 
"Communication Skills and Levels of Intimacy" was the title of last night's sessions, with discussion 
O
ur stylists specialize in a wide range of styles for dances and special occassions. 
S 
uprise your sweetheart with a new look and a golden tan this Valentine~ Day. 
Mo11ie  
Night  
8:00 pm 10:00 pm 12:00 am  LEAVING LAS VEGAS BEAUTIFUL GIRLS BASIC INSTINCT  

HCoup/es or non-couples" _-..._ Free admission 
Saturday Feb.8th 8pm-2am 
La Fortune 

Ballroom Join us for a night of unrequited LOVE... 
leaders attempting to delve into the "two pieces often missing in rela­tionships: good communication and encouragement toward friendship." 
According to team member Michele Lichtenberger, some barri­ers to attaining these ideals include the use of alcohol, distorted images of intimacy, and the "typical" their aim "to suggest more positive ways of addressing the situation." 
"Here are some individuals that are willing to commit some of their time to change," said Doyle. 
The team has spent a consider­able amount of time in preparation for this series. Including guest speakers, research and preparation of 

Notre Dame role-plays and
'Here are some
female and speeches, the time
individuals that
male images. commitment involved Two female are willing to commit in training for these panel members sessions prove that
some of their time to 
talked about team members feel their own expe­change.' strongly enough riences with about the issue to relationships Tom Doyle invest personal time and the ways to make it widely rec­
that effective communication has helped them. 
Several of the discussants also role-played, depicting a confronta­tion between roommates during room picks. The planned activities were followed by a discussion on the differences between men's and women's methods of communica­tion. 
Tom Doyle, rector of Keough Hall, said the program's aim was to "break a cycle that everyone has whined about for a decade." 
The team members at the Breen­Phillips location agreed that it was 
ognized at Notre Dame, members said. 
"We feel like it's an issue that needs to be addressed on this cam­pus," said team member, Lisa Shoemaker," and we fee1 that stu­dents address it better than the administration." 
The next discussion will be held Feb. 9 and 10 at 7 p.m. in Keough, Lyons, Knott, Walsh, Keenan and Stanford halls, again with brother/sister dorms invited. 
The sessions are open to all stu­dents, regardless of his or her place of residence. 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1·5323 
--$foo-cOOPON--i CANCUN, MEXICO : 
Complete Packages From $399 I RT airfare, 7 Nights Hotel, I Free Covers & Parties Plus Discounts 
on Side Trips and Excursions. Some Restrictions apply. 
Prices for March 8th Chicago Departures only. 
CALL NOW!!! 
Early Week Special: 2 14" Pizzas with one topping for $12.50! 
Hours: 'Till 1 AM Sun­Thurs 'Till2 AM Fri and Sat Lunch 11-2 

273-3890 
IISTILL THE BEST" 
ND 
government experience and promising cooperation and con­more effective, but needs to con­cerns over parking, experience, their commitment to Catholic sistency in their approach to tinue in that trend. budgeting, and platform feasibil­
character in their platform. governing. Barrette/McCaghy remarked ity during a question and Improved communication Barrette/McCaghy emphasized that the initiativr. they have seen answer session. Questions from
continued from page 1 
between their administration the importance of an effective is a good quality, but they also the audience could be directed Student Senate and supporting and the campus was also a key link between student govern­noted that communication needs to only one particular candidate, plank, and they felt they could ment and the Notre Dame attention. Sharing their aversion
current efforts to create a stu­with the Szabo/Gillard and dent trustee were among the provided an unjaded perspective administration. They promised to occasional unproductive spells Griffin!Nass receiving most of planks on their platform. by being new to the campus advertisements in The Observer in student government, the inquiries. 'The number-one goal is rep­political scene. which would solicit feedback on Grifl'in/Nass emphasized the Styles of leadership and resenting students," they stated. "Our main goal is a Board of their performance. importance of focusing on issues. Campus Life Council experience Griffin/Nass also expressed a Trustees student member," "If it's what the student body "The ball is rolling," were of particular interest to the desire to improve the campus' Barrette/McCaghy said, high­wants, it's what they're going to Chica/Cano obse!"Ved, specifical­audience. athletic resources, computing lighting their commitment to get," Chico/Cano told the audi­ly lauding multicultural group Communication, cooperation, environment, parking, diversity, representation. ence. Their platform displayed improvements. student rights, and University Questioning moved toward an unfocused grass-roots During their responses, most ties emerged as buzzwords in
and unity. 
One ticket took specific focus specific issues as the debate pro­approach to governing which tickets recognized the need to each tickets' responses. on social activities. Whether the gressed. On multiple instances, did note the importance of both improve student government's proposal was bringing pre-sea­tickets were asked how they mobilizing and representing stu­credibility with both their class­son NBA games to the Joyce planned to fight student body dent opinion. mates and the administration. 
Center, enlarging Notre Dame's 
apathy and revitalize student Calling for a critical assess­"You have to realize there are big brother-big sister program, government. ment of student govr.rnment, certain issues you can and can't or luring more comedians and 
"Apathy comes from no results, one of the panel's first questions win," Griffin/Nass pointed out. concerts to campus, their plat­
so we'll attack the issues," asked the candidates to evaluate To lind that balance, their ticket form centered on programming Szabo/Gillard said. Their ticket past student government admin­proposed greater consistency in noted that r-eforms currently istrations' performances. The communication. ·
activities. 
"Our goal is to revive student being considered within student Szabo/Gillard ticket stressed that The audience brought up con-spirit and unity," Booker/Parker 
government would help revital­they had seen "good ideas but ize any future administration. poor action," while
said. Barrette/McCaghy emphasized 
"Power comes from unifying Booker/Parker said student gov­both their lack of formal student 
students," Booker/Parker said, ernment has recently become 
In a model _lecture prepared friend had an eating disorder for use in the National Eating when a mutual friend informed
Disorder 
Disorders Screening Program me about it," Hansen said. by David Herzog and Anne Sufferers that deny their ill­
continued from page 1 
Becker, given the American ness often don't display visible focus on fitness and dieting, it symptoms, making detectionand Career Development Center can sometimes be difficult to tell very difficult. People need toat Saint Mary's College. 
where disordered-eating stops become aware of the danger"I think it is prevalent in any and an eating disorder begins. signals and detectors in suspectcollege setting because students "Eating disorders can be so eating disorders, as well as indeal with a significant amount discrete, which makes them those who may never have been 
of stress daily," said junior 
hard to detect," said Carin suspected, according to Mascott.
Jennifer Nelson. 
Hansen, a Saint Mary's junior. Those who perceive them­
Anorexia, bulimia nervosa, 

"I have known someone with an selves as fat, although they areand binge-eating disorder are eating disorder, and I was of normal or even below normal 
diseases that affect the mind 
unable to recognize it." weight, endanger their lives byand body simultaneously. Aside 
Because many anorexics and either starving themselves,
from causing a disturbance of bulimics deny their illness, fam­binge eating, purging or com­daily life, these diseases pose ily and friends play a critical pulsive eating. Continuous diet­serious health problems. In the role in recognizing the telltale ing, denial of hunger, compul­most extreme cases death may signs and getting help immedi­sive exercise, and abnormal
occur. An estimated 1,000 
ately. weight Joss are sure signs ofwomen die each year of anorex­"I only found out that my close anorexia nervosa. 
The entire Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College community is invited to attend all activities. ohn D. Miles Engineering Lecture Series, Feb.S -Apr. 16, College ofEngineering, 258 Fitzpatrick Hall, 12 noon-1:30 p.m. There are receptions before each lecture at 11:30 a.m. (same location) 
Minority engineers from across the country share their research: All of the presenters are in doctoral engineering programs or have recently earned their doctorate in engineering. 
February 5 . 

• Milton Morris, (EE) -Biomedical Signal Processing 
February 19 

• 
Sean Garrick, (ME) -Stochastic Modeling of Complex Turbulent Reactive Flows 

March 5 


• 
Simonetta Rodriguez, (CE/GEO & ARCH) -Buildings of the Future 

March 19 


• 
Reginald Des Roches, (CE)-Intermediate Hinge Restrainers for Bridges-Performance, Design, and Retrofit 

ril 2 


• 
Dr. Patricia Mead, (ME)-Optoelectronics 


April 16 

• 
Dr. Melody Ivory, (CS) -Modeling and Improving Performance of Distributed Information Systems for Large-scale Databases 

May 1 


• 
MEP 10th year anniversary black-tie banquet 6:00p.m., College Football Hall of Fame, (by invitation only) Keynote Address: Dr. Raymond Landis, Dean of the College of Engineering, California State University, Los Angeles 


May 1 and 2 

• The Black Inventions Exhibit, Stepan Center May 1, 9:00a.m.-6:00p.m.; May 2, 10:00 a.m.-7:00p.m. (free of charge) Exhibit highlights the inventions of African and African-Americans and places special emphasis on recent inventions as well as on the contributions of women and youths. · 
---~ 
Tuesday, February 4, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Live! at Notre Dame... 

The Observer/Brei Hogan 

As a surprise to Notre Dame alum and talk show guru Regis Philbin, Mrs. Greenthumb made a stop on the Notre Dame campus as part of her nationwide tour for the network show, Live! with Regis and Kathy Lee. The spot, featuring cheerleaders Rich and Bob Kizer and lep­rechaun Ryan Gee, was broadcast live yesterday. 
CLC 

continued frorri page 1 
respect for the CLC's position," said Ryan Mcinerney, judicial coordinator. "But I think she misse<Pthat, in passing the resolution, we were saying that we did not have enough involvement in policy decisions." 
The resolution called for "students, faculty and rectors" to be directly involved in the revision process for du Lac. "The resolution called for· a deliberative role not the advisory role that she grants in her response," said Father Patrick Sullivan, faculty senator. 
O'Hara's letter noted the changes that have been made to du Lac through CLC input. Included in those changes is the process by which Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life, reports general revision topics to the CLC for input. "The emphasis is on our response to general issues," said Mike Tobin, co-chair of Hall Presidents' Council. "What we send may be representative of all opinions, but a letter can only go so far." 
Kirk defended the response by describing the tative work with the Office of Residence Life to get frequent updates on the progress and topics of revision, but I would not put the responsibility to represent the entire CLC in a decision making role on one person." 
O'Hara's letter noted that the incoming student body president stays on campus through the sum­mer and could be used as the consult for the CLC. The council disagreed with this idea: "It would be a disservice to ask [the Student Body President] to carry the load from a CLC that they [sic] have not participated in. We should use what we have got­ten productively and form an ad hoc committee to bring revision concerns to the council." 
In searching for other ways to go about the same issue, Student Senator Shane Bigelow said, "We may want to make more of an effort to push [the du Lac revision] into the school year so that the CLC would be able to be consulted." 
The council decided to form the ad hoc commit­tee to determine what concerns should be brought to the attention of the Office of Student Affairs. Mark Leen will chair the committee. 
O'Hara's response letter approved the first reso­lution passed at last meeting, asking that more information about student services be included in 



Mandatory Interview Sign-up Meeting Wednesday, February 5 Hesburgh Center Auditorium 7:00PM 

I/ you are interested in learning how to con/rant discrim£nation, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering stu­dents, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity worl~shop. 
LIMITED ENROLLMENT-CALL IMMEDIATELY 
S.ATURDAY, FEBRUARY 15 
9:30AM -4:00 PM 
3RD FLOOR LOUNGE OF HEALTH SCIENCE 
I 

BUILDING BREAKFAST AND LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED This worl~shop is being presented by the Notre Dame Affiliate of the National Coalition Building Institute 
Contact: Adele Lanan • 631-7308 Micl~ey Franco • 631-4355 
----------~--------------­
-
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 4, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Marc Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Ediror ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller ........... c..............................Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. 1r does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, letrers and Inside Columns prcsenr rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre: Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 63!-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• THE MIGHTY OAK 
Stranger in the strange land of Tasmania 


This is a tale of adventure and intrigue in a strange and wondrous place, an island in the far south, perpetually wet and phantasmagorical. This is also a testament to the benefit of preparation, for without it in this place, one might easily meet one's end. This is the histo­ry of a voyage to the land of Tasmania, as I remember it, one year later and with the grace of hindsight. 
Sean O'Connor 

On the second day of April, suspicious­ly close to the first which is dedicated to fools, in the waning of the southern summer, in the year of our Lord nine­teen hundred and ninety-six, six com­panions and I arrived at H'obart International Airport, suntanned, eager, and bereft of an itinerary. This moun­tainous island clad in rainforest, this Tasmania, the Van Diemen's Land of 
. yore, had beckoned to us for months in our dreams. Our collective wisdom was replete with Tasmanian lore and geog­raphy. But despite this long build-up, we had formulated no solid plan, made no reservations, brought no coats. 
As we debarked the plane, grizzled Tasmanians in thick wool sweaters snickered knowingly. A wry, "There's snow on the mountains, mate," stung the deep recesses of our souls, but we would not be foiled. A bus brought us downtown, we secured lodging for the night, and in a pub called the Shamrock Hotel, a plan was born. 
The morning brought hurried prepa­rations; the rental of cooking equipment and sleeping bags and cars, the pur­chase of rations, an attempt to procure a map, a desperate quest for advice. And by early afternoon, we were gone from the city and driving through wet groves of eucalyptus, climbing into foggy hills, bound for Lake St. Clair-Cradle Mountain National Park. 
We arrived at the lake late in the day and bivouacked upon its shores. A wholesome meal and the pleasant com­pany of Bennet's Wallabies saw us to bed, anticipation of the morning's walk playing in our heads. But in the early hours, we were jarred from sleep by a harshly-metallic, unearthly screaming. "Egad," I thought, "aliens!" One of the creatures smacked into our tent; it was small of stature and fierce, we judged. Alas, no alien was it but something worse, possessed of the most powerful crushing jaw in the world. We unzipped our flaps and cast our eyes on a wild melee of Tasmanian devils! 
The morning brought little light and plentiful rain, but our spirits would not be dampened. A ferry brought us to the far shore and the south terminus of the famed Overland Track, 60 miles of trail through heath and dale. We cut stun­ning figures in our "Intrepid" model packs; all but one. This unfortunate character, though armed with the fierce courage of the tiger, bore the yoke of the "Flight 70." As he leapt spryly from boat to shore, a derisive remark, shot like a arrow from our captain, pierced his poor heart, "Done much bushwalking with that pack, mate?" 
In our great wisdom, we had decided to wait until we arrived at the trailhead before plotting our route; in this way we hoped to get a better feel for the land. We were no ordinary men, but honed like samurai blades from time in the wilderness. The Overland Track, we thought, was too thickly populated ·with tourists; we wanted the solitude that could be found only among the knife­edge horns shrouded in mist, where no man went. "Mount Gould," said the bearded ranger, a wily glint in his eye. "Good campsites up there on the plateau, good trail. In the morning ye can blaze a path down the east flank, meet up with the Overland five miles north. Then on to the Acropolis." As we struck out, the ranger's companion obligingly pointed out that my sleeping bag was partially exposed from my pack and would thus become wet. I thanked him. 
We were soon deep among the southern beeches hung with moss and encrusted with lichens. Peat sucked at our ankles as we walked. The "good traiV we thought, must be in relation to the road to Hell. Nonetheless, we went on, bound for glory, hungry for the summit. A craw­fish, denizen of streams, awash in ghast­ly blue, crossed my path: "Harbinger of woe," I thought. I looked hurriedly away and shambled on. 
The morass nearly claimed me at one point, pulling me thigh deep into its watery death, yet I escaped with the aid of another. "You will' not take me, foul thing," I declared. Late in the day, stricken with leeches, we arrived in a cheerless place among tussocks of sedge man-high. "A shoulder upon the moun­tain's side, the Plateau!" we shouted. But it was not to be. The map showed a lake; there was no lake. "Perhaps only a watermark on the map," we vainly hoped. 
After this moment of confusion, we regained our composure and continued upward. The trail gave way to a water­filled rut. "I will pave this," someone declared. But we had icewater in our veins (because it was cold), and ere long, the summit was ours. A great, wet heath stretched before us, whipped by bitter winds. And away, in the distance, lost in cloud, rose the rest of the moun­tain; Gould, dark and brooding, who would not bend to the hand of men. 

As we debated our course of action, vainly seeking the lake and its campsite, the wind gnawing at out flesh, we began to recognize our defeat. "We cannot camp on the tops of small shrubs," I intoned, "and surely the cold will take us if we stay here. We must flee down the slope back to the ferry landing before nightfall if we hope to survive." 
Like the doe from the lion, we ran. As darkness engulfed the mountains, we reached the camp at the base of the plateau. Soon, a tiny flame danced in the night, but frost and misery visited their heavy hands upon our spirits. The tents were cold and unlovely after a meager supper, but we lived because of the warmth of each other's bodies . 
And in the morning, there was sun. Glistening off the water drops in a mil­lion scintillations, thawing our blood and renewing our spirits, the rays from above were a gift. We struck the tents and hit the trail, wandering in a wide open valley beneath a blue sky. And there was Gould, unsheathed of mist and bathed in the morning light, laugh­ing, content in the knowledge that he had beaten us. But we cowered only a moment, for there were other peaks calling up the trail, and men of adven­ture have no time to linger in defeat. 
Sean O'Connor is· a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
• DOONESBWW GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"The v,itality of thought 
is in adventure. Ideas won't keep. Something must be done about them. When the idea is new, its custodi­ans have fervor, live for it, and, if need be, die for it." 
-Alfred North Whitehead 


;ACCENT
page 8 
Two can1puses share rich Blac 

Saint Mary's offers drama, film celebration with Sojourner and Spike 
By MONICA WAGNER Accent Writer 
S
o here it is -the beginning of February. The spring semester is in full swing. You've finally gotten used to your new schedule, purchased your books, figured out how to get ready for your 8 a.m. class without waking up your roommate (or maybe you haven't but don't care), and, last but not least, you've finally gotten a grip on what classes you really need to go 
to  or  who  to  get  
notes  from  if you  
don't.  

Since the begin­ning o£ your college life, you may have become too wrapped up in your own life to stop and take a look at those things going on in the world around you. Some of you may not have even realized that February is African-American History month. Twenty-eight (some­times 29) days that are set aside in order to celebrate the history and her­itage of the African­American culture. 
This celebration was started here in the United States in order to honor the trials and tribula­tions that have faced African-Americans and to add inspira­tion for those things yet to come. 
For some individu­als here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, African­American History Month may not be all that familiar. Sure you've heard of it, but did you really take the time to appreciate it? To understand it? Okay, so now you might be realizing that you actually don't know much about any culture besides your own (if that). Well, being able to understand and accept different cultures has become a must for the 90's and diversity is rapidly becoming the key to the world. Taking part in African-American History Month is a great way to get your foot in the door for understanding other cultures. 
On February 20, the Saint Mary's College-based Sisters of Nefertiti, along with the Multicultural Office, English Club and Board of Governance are spon­soring the play "When We Get to Christiana Creek," which will take place in Moreau's Little Theater on the SMC campus. It was written by Michigan resi­dent Buddy Hannah and concerns the Underground Railroad and its presence in southwest lower Michigan. 
The play focuses on the very small town of Vandalia and its preparation for 
Americans and Quakers of the Vandalia area. There are four scenes involved in this one-act play. 
told as they lead a group to freedom. 
Christiana Creek," 
African-American history and culture. everyone should take the time to appreciate it. American history is really all about. 
By JASON HUGGINS World Wide Web Correspondent 

F
or those brave souls trying to escape Notre Dame's isolation from the rest of the world, here is a review of some excellent current news Web sites. CNN Interactive (www.cnn.com) is the champ when it comes to depth, though it lacks the sheer quantity of the Yahoo! Reuters News Summary. Each of CNN Interactive's sections, such as news, sports, and entertainment, has between five and 10 current stories and roughly double that number of previously run stories. The writing is bright and thorough, and you will find in-depth special reports on the most attention-grab-
For business news, The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition (www.wsj.com) is without peer. This subscription-based site ($49 per year, $29 for print subscribers) has most (but not all) of the print edition's content, plus a few extras. For example, unlike the print edition, you can get live securities quotes and view briefing books for businesses that include recent news as well as market-related information. But what makes this site·so attractive is The Wall Street Journal's famous combination of expert in-depth business news coverage and its entertaining yet insightful features. There are relatively few updates to this site during the course of the day. 
The New York Times On The Web (www.nytimes.com) mirrors the print edition's strengths and weaknesses. Each day, it provides a generous supply of national, international, sports, business, and other news from the print edition. As you would 
ACCENT
Tuesday, February 4, 1997 page 9 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
~History events 
lack History Month at ND: 
·verse sponsors, diverse activities 
College Killer: Eating Disorders 
By LARRY WARD Medical Minute Correspondent 
C
ommercials g~amorizing the skinny i~dividual constantly ca~l o~r atten­
tion to beautiful women such as Cmdy Crawford and Nikki Taylor. 
Consumers are thus made to believe that the ideal person is impossibly slender, leading us to the irrational notion that we are overweight. However for some people, in particular young high school and college aged women, this fear of being overweight becomes destructive to their bodies. 
Some young women become so obsessive over the foods that they develop an eating disorder. The two disorders that are prevalent among such women are anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. 
Anorexia nervosa is the name given to a complex eating disorder. Anorexia is marked by dieting to the utmost extreme -dieting to the point of emaciation. The horrifying part of the disease though is that the sufferers of anorexia do not stop avoidance of food despite warnings from family and friends. 
Anorexia nervosa almost exclusively occurs in adolescent girls and young adult women. Less than 10% of the documented cases of anorexia nervosa are men. 
Anorexia typically begins in adolescent aged girls who are normal in weight or slightly overweight. At some point, such girls who develop anorex­ia begin to see themselves as overweight and correspondingly eliminate snack foods and high-calorie foods from their diets. The disease progre~­sively becomes worse to the point that the young woman will begin to skip meals and will increasingly restrict the foods that she will eat. More often than not, the extreme dieting is accompanied by frantic exercise. 
Further signs and symptoms of the disease include an unrealistic fear that the sufferer may have of being fat. In addition, those closest to the sufferer should be able to notice a significant weight loss in the affected individual accompanied by a refusal to maintain a normal body weight. 
Interestingly enough, scientists have noted another odd behavior of anorexic: sufferers of the disease often take a great interest in reading recipes, counting calories of various foods, and preparing food. Sufferers may also encourage others to eat large quantities of food but they them­selves will not eat at all. 
Food restriction results in progressive loss of body fat in an anorexic indi­vidual. More serious changes result when self-induced vomiting and inap­propriate use of laxatives and diuretics are begun in order to speed weight loss. 
Physicians are not quite sure as to what the cause of anorexia is. However, it is believed that many individuals have a biological predisposi­tion to anorexia that becomes apparent during puberty. Other scientists believe that fear of one's sexuality, family pressures, and various other con­flicts may contribute to the disease. An individual who suffers from anorexia is also not helped by the innumerable social influences that emphasize desirability of extreme thinness. 
Early treatment of anorexia can prevent the progression of the illness and complete recovery from anorexia is possible. However, the illness can often be quite severe and in extreme cases can result in death. In these instances (cases in which the sufferer abuses laxatives and diuretics and vomits to rid the body of excess weight) hospitalization is necessary. In less extreme cases, psychotherapy and diet counseling are recommended for anorexics who are still able to live at home. For the families of such individuals, coun­seling is recommended. 
The other eating disorder prevalent in our society is bulimia nervosa. Bulimia is binge eating with or without alternating cycles of purging by self­induced vomiting, fasting, or abuse of laxatives, diet pills, or diuretics. 
Bulimia, often referred to as the "gorge and purge" disorder, involves consumption of enormous amounts of food -usually high-calorie sweets ­in a short time. Gorging may continue until the individual feels full or devel­ops a painful stomachache. 
Oftentimes, this eating disorder occurs in late adolescence or early adult­hood in women. Men can also be accused of binge eating but are rarely con-. cerned about bingeing. . 
Unfortunately, bulimia does not send off clear cut signals as does anorex­ia, which is evidenced by severe weight loss. Depending on frequency and timing of binges and purges, some girls maintain a normal weight; however, one tell-tale sign is weight that fluctuates wildly. 
Unlike people with anorexia, bulimics usually realize that their eating is abnormal and often become depressed after binges. Bulimia nervosa is seri­ous because the habit is disruptive to work and social life. Purging can have serious health effects by depleting the body of much-needed water and potassium and can ev.en result in death. 
Bulimia can usually be treated with behavior modification techniques and psychotherapy, sometimes' in conjunction with an antidepressant medica­tion. Severe cases of bulimia may require hospitalization. 
If you are suffering from either anorexia or bulimia, know that the University Counseling Center has numerous options to help you, including personal counseling and group therapy. Similarly, if you think that some­one close to you may have an eating disorder, reach out and suggest outlets of help to them. 
Larry Ward is a junior Science Pre-Professional major who resides in Planner Hall. Larry can be reached for comment about his column at Lawrence.A. Ward.25@nd. edu. 
-
nesday, February 5: latanos Go Wit' Collard Greens?" d Lamb 7 p.m. esc 
nsored by Interrace Forum 
Friday, February 14: Blak Koffee House Literary Evening 7:30p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Festival 
riday, February 7: 
n1ative Action: Under Monday, February Fire" 24: Jamal Bryant, Ward "The Importance erly, Sharon O'Brien of Education and 
. Library Auditorium Mentoring" nsored by NAACP Hon. Alan Page 
8 p.m. IOI 

turday, February 8: DeBartolo ight Inspired By A Sponsored by nl: NAACP Formal" NAACP 
Alumni-Senior Club Thursday, 
ay, February I 0: February 27: irrnation to "AIDS Action" Awareness & 
ve Birdine Sexual 8p.m. Promiscuity" 1 DeBartolo Relationship sored by NAACP Forum 7p.m. 

sday, February I 1 : 
NICS: Can We Talk?" 
anel Discussion 
7 p.m. esc 
nsored by African­icon Student Alliance· 
LaFortune Ballroom 
Sponsored by NAACP 
Friday, February 28: Black Student Union "Close-Out" Dance IO p.m. esc 
expect from this august news organization, the articles ar~ expertly .writte?-t~ere is no finer reporting on the Web. However, like the print verswn, The Times site IS ugly and frustrating to navigate. If that doesn't bother you, and if you don't need constant news updates, this site offers justifiably legendary daily journalism. 
There are a lot of sites trying to knock it off its perch, but ESPNet SportsZone (esp­net.sportszone.com) remains the reigning champion of sports news.. Beyond t~e front page, which is updated throughout the day with the top sports stones, th~re IS great depth about all popular sports. It includes interviews, features, and even live feeds of certain news events, such as press conferences. For an extra five bucks a month, you get columnists such as Dick Vitale and more in-depth information about teams and players. 
Mr. Showbiz (www.mrshowbiz.com) is updated daily with about a half dozen of the hottest movie, television, and music news tidbits, along with some celebrity gossip. However, its focus is more on celebrity interviews, entertainment reviews, and fe~­tures. As such, it is the most broad-ranging entertainment site on the Web, but It doesn't have much breaking news. 
Happy surfing! 
Jason Huggins is a junior Management Information Systems major from Thousand Oaks, Calif. Also a Keenan Knight, Jason is sad to realize that the Revue was not men­tioned in anyofthe above Web sites. 
•NBA 
Day leads Celtics to rare road victory 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

For the Boston Celtics this season, a win on the road has been rare. 
"Anytime you can double your road win total in one game, it's huge," Eric Williams said after scoring 27 points to lead the Celtics to a 
114-102  victory  over  the  
Toronto  Raptors  Monday  
night.  

The Celtics, dressing just nine players, needed a big effort from their starting five. And that's just what they got. 
Todd Day scored 26 points; David Wesley had 25 points, 11 assists and seven rebounds; Antoine Walker had 20 points and 13 rebounds, and Rick Fox had 10 points and 10 assists as Boston improved to 2-17 on the road. It was the Celtics' second win in their last 10 games. 
"We know we have to play a whole game to beat anybody," said Wesley, who hit three key 3-pointers in the final quarter to turn back the Raptors. "Down the stretch we just wanted good looks at the bas­ket, and with Rick and me finding the open man, we were able to get them." 
The Celtics looked like the team that has managed an 10-33 record before Monday's victory. The blew a 10-point, first-half lead and trailed by as many as nine points mid­way through the third quar­ter. 
But Fox sank a 3-pointer, sending the Celtics off on a 15-0 run, which was capped by Walker's field goal for an 80-74 lead with 2:13 to play in the third quarter. 
Early in the fourth quarter, Wesley hit a 3-pointer, giving the Celtics an 89-81 lead with 
10:57 to play. After Popeye Jones' field goal brought the Raptors within nine points, Wesley again hit from behind the arc, putting Boston on top 104-92. 
Damon Stoudamire, who had 18 of his team-high 26 points in the second half. hit one of two free throws and followed it up with a field goal to cut the lead to 108-100 with 1:50 to play before Wesley hit his third 3-pointer of the quarter with 44.9 sec­onds remaining, ending any chance of a Raptors come­back. 
"It's been a long time com­i-ng," said Fox, alluding to Boston's only other road win of the season, 104-102 over the Denver Nuggets on Dec. 
30. "We've had other good games on the road, but didn't finish them. Tonight, we fin­ished." 
Kings 85, Spurs 79 
Jeff Grayer keyed a 20-0, second-half Sacramento spurt Monday night as the Kings came from behind to defeat the San Antonio Spurs 85-79. 
Grayer, playing with a 10­day contract, scored six of his 16 points in the run that saw Sacramento go from a 60-49 deficit to a 69-60 lead with 
9:30 left in the game. 
Mitch Richmond led the Kings with 26 points and Tyus Edney sealed the win with two free throws with 24.4 seconds left to give Sacramento its final six-point margin. 
The Kings, maintaining the seventh best record in the Western Conference, outscored the Spurs 28-11 in the third quarter after trailing by 10 at the half. Sacramento scored the final 18 points of the period and the first two of the fourth quarter before Sean Elliott broke the run with a drive. 
Richmond had 11 points in the third as Sacramento won for the fifth time in seven games. 
San Antonio closed within 71-66 in the fourth before Grayer hit a 3-pointer and Edney added two free throws. 
Recruits 
continued from page 16 
pair of shoes from Foot Locker) when Driver made his an­nouncement. 
Family has always been im­portant to Driver, and in the end it was his family's wishes that swayed him to Notre Dame. His parents wanted him to pick a school close to home with good academics and Florida State didn't fit the bill. 
"He could accomplish what he wants athletically at any other school," Driver's coach Bob Redman explained. "He felt that he could accomplish what he wants academically at Notre Dame." 
The Irish also made a timely push for Driver. Last Friday, Irish defensive line coach Charlie Strong attended Driver's basketball game and made a final push. Driver came away from the meeting impressed with Strong and confideot in the Irish's new coaching changes. Notre Dame had once again become Driver's favorite. 
"Notre Dame just came down Friday and did a whirlwind job," Redman commented. 
The importance of Driver's commitment cannot be over~ looked or under appreciated. He arrives with the same game­breaking ability that Randy Moss has and can be favorably compared to former Irish receiv­er and Heisman winner Tim Brown. Like Brown, Driver was a high school running back, but has the height, speed and hands to be a great receiver. 
"Mr. Versatility [Driver] can run, catch, block and make peo­ple miss him," Allen Wallace of SuperPrep explained. "IIe· comes from a program that loves the passing game." 
In 1996, Driver rushed for 1,491 yards and 18 touchdowns and had 25 receptions for 467 yards and 5 touchdowns. lie was also the Kentucky state champion in the 1 0(} meter dash as a Junior with a time of 10.55 seconds. 
He was named USA Today all­USA first team all-American as a running back and was named to Parade's All-America football team. SuperPrep ranks him as the second best running back in the nation. Tom Lemming ranks him as the second best offensive player in the nation behind Travis Minor. 
Waiting for Minor: Travis Minor (5-11, 185, 4.4) of Baton Rouge, LA is now the only all­American left for the Irish. As USA Today's Offensive Player of the Year, Minor is only slightly more desired than Driver, and now with Driver committed, he becomes the focus of the re­cruiting world. 
With Holtz still coach, Minor admitted that Notre Dame had a slight lead over Florida State. Yet, he added a concern over the. distance from home and the cold weather. 
Another factor weighing on his mind was the destination of Driver. Considering that they both played running back in high school, it would be highly unlikely for both to play for the 
same school. 

When Minor didn't commit to LSU after a January 31 visit, his parents' favorite, many ex­pected a quick commitment to 
Florida State. ESPN radio would later announce that he had given his commitment to the 
Seminoles, but Minor would 
de~~~h~~=~~r~re reports that Minor contacted Brock Williams, a fellow recruit from Louisiana, about Williams' decision to com­mit to Notre Dame. Other 
reports indicate that he spent all Monday discussing the Irish with his football coach. 
Minor has admitted that Notre 
Dame is his favorite. but Florida State and Louisiana State may be where he signs. 
Justin Smith: After de-com­mitting from Duke, Justin Smith (6-1, 185, 4.45) of St. Petersburg, FL committed to the Irish late Monday evening. He 
had visited Notre Dame in December but was not offered a scholarship until recently. Because he played for a pri­marily rush-oriented team, Smith didn't receive much recognition and has not been highly recruited. Yet. he does bring good hands and athletic ability to the Irish. 
"Smith is a speedy wideout who has very good hands and makes big plays." Bill Kurelic said. 
Letters of intent: Tomorrow, players will sign a letter of intent pledging to play for the school of their choice. With Driver and Smith, the Irish will expect 18 letters to be signed and faxed back to them. Yet, Davie is still hoping for more. 
Four extra letters were sent to Travis Minor, receiver Greg Brown, running back Rufus Brown and linebacker Hugh Holmes in hopes that they will either decide on the Irish or change their mind and sign with the Irish. 
Promise honored: The Irish's primary goal was landing a gamebreaker and improving overall team speed. At first it didn't look as though the Irish would fulfill their goals, but now it appears that they have. 
With Tony Driver onboard, the Irish found their gamebreaker, and Davie honored Holtz's promise. He brought Notre Dame a class of track stars. 
1 • h V b I
riS er a s 
List of high school seniors who have made verbal commitments to sign with Notre Dame. l(e\(in Dan&b\t!t}'!i1;1rtLa,6w1t2:f 
BirfTij~{}~arrlt ~L nthony D'enman RB 6~3. 20 
Rusk, TX 

(JnyDrivpr,::';'::t::::;,:vTB}o-3,21 
Louisville, KY 

QeyQeth@r~ll... VVR-.5~7~~6 
LaPeui1'te, CA ·•· ·· ··· ' ' abari HOHoway TE; 6~4, 23 
Tyrone, GA 

Grant•ltons DE, 6-5,22 
The I(Voodl~f7cJS, TX

Bodald Israel.:;;,;;, DB, 6-1, 17 
H~ddon f{eights, {I}~
olin Jordan 

.,;  OG 6-0 26  
Brooklyn, NY ak Kustok  .•  ' ' 08, 6-2;18  
Orland Park, IL DJJ'rcey Levy Montbel/o, CO  RB, 6-2,17  

ason MUrray
Belle Vernon, PA 
ooper Rego 
Montvale, NJ 
Casey Robin 
Covington, LA 
ohn Teasdale 
Kansas City, MO 
Kurt Vollers 
naheim, CA 

DB, 5-11, 175
Brock Williams 
Hammond, LA 

DL, 6-4, 25
ndy Wisne 
Jenks, OK

L.....~.:....:.....~--...T-he_O_b_s-er-ve-r/-P-et-er-C-ii_Jella 
-
... 
Classifieds 
ILOST & FOUND I ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Earn up 
to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries,
NOTICES 
parks, resorts. Airfare! 

Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Spring Break Bahamas Party HELP!! Call Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Lost my class ring between (919)918-7767, ext.A154. Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Sarin, SOH, and 06. Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From sentimental value. If found, EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 please call John at X2213 or Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, springbreaktravel.com drop by 319. etc. teaching simple conversational 
$$REWARD$$ English. No languages/teaching Florida Spring Break! Panama City! exp. required. Room With Kitchen Near Bars LOST: detatchable face for a (919)918-7767, Ext. W154. $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Pioneer car CD player and soft Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa black carrying case. if found, Volunteers Needed for FOOD-Beach Hilton $169! springbreak-please call X 2079. REWARD SHARE: Help Feed The Homeless travel. com for 1 hour a week. 1-800-678-6386 If interested call Mike 234-1078. 
Lost: Sterling silver ring with black SPRING BREAK writing on one side and an 
FOR RENT 

PANAMA CITY BEACH_FLORIDA engraved flower on the other side. SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH If found, please call Katy at x1490. RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR -REWARD-4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT system, wash/dry, beach v-ball. TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE Lost: prime location, 109 N. St. Peter TIKI BEACH BAR. HOME OF THE Brown Leather Wallet 233-9947 BIGGEST PARTY. Sun. Night FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 Reward If Found WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM Brad or Rob x4784 BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high 
ceilings, etc. ONLY $210 PER THE COPY SHOP LOST: Pioneer detachable face MONTH! near campus · move in LaFortune Student Center for car CD player. was in a ASAP. 
Phone 631-COPY black carrying case. if found, call Julie @ 288 7284 Mon.: 7:30a.m. · Midnight please call 4-2079 (ask for Lee) Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight reward NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS
WANTED
Fri.: 7:30a.m. -7:00p.m. 2773097 Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight SUMMER JOBS POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM Open Early, Late. & Weekends ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
PRESTIGE CHI OREN'S CAMPS 2773097 COME IN AND PLACE A VALEN-ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS TINE FOR YOUR SWEETHEART NEAR LAKE PLACID 
FOR SALE

OR YOUR FRIENDS!!! 1-800-786-8373 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dameoffice, 314 LaForru~e and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadhne for next-day claSSifieds 1s 3p.m. All claSSifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
................................
Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi-Fuzzy Bear, happy anniversary. um mattress set. Never used still in Love, Sugar Bear elsie's promise package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. with special guests 
(219) 674-2352 420 pounds of .. 
A secure, loving couple wishes to at WOODBRIDGE 1-BEDROOM begin a family by adopting an Bridget's CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900 infant. We can provide a bright, Wednesday. Feb. 5
.................................,..
TA'MARA 273-5166 happy future for a child. All allowable medical & legal expenses paid. Please call ZZ and Ry Bread-May you find 
'92 HONDA ACCORD LX. 1-800-292-5363 or call our attorney your banana slurpees. BEAUTIFUL. collect at 217-352-1800. $8,500 OR B/0. Karol & Rob To Sister Dorine: 
233-5537. Thank you for all you taught me. 
May you rest in peace. For Sale: Ethernet Card, 3-com Electrolysis by Rebecca 3C509 for IBM compatibles $65 Blend Method 674-6933 Heather. call Allen 1-4308 I can get soup whenever I want it. 
FAX IT FAST!!! New Sony Play Station $150 284-Sending & Receiving Soup is good for you .... 5223 at 
THE COPY SHOP Hey Shannon and Nerea... LaFortune Student Center .... your names are in the classifieds 
TICKETS 

Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! I don't want to live near you, any-NEED GA'S FOR UCONN way. Alaska here I come ... CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439 
COME AND WALTZ THE NIGHT PC. NEED GA'S FOR PROVIDENCE AWAY WITH BALLROOM DANCE Are you sure you get any work CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439 TONIGHT IN STEPAN CENTER done, locked in that office all night? 
FROM 6:00-8:00 PM. ALL ARE Don't you owe me a dinner at Don WELCOME!!! Pablo's, too?
PERSONAL 

Cream of the Valley Road is the DO YOU PLAY DRUMS? Florida Spring Break! Panama City! worst COJlliC I have ever read .... -Experienced Guitarist! Vocalist is Room With Kitchen Near Bars looking to jam/form band. Will play $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! any style of music. Call John at 4­Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa To all B-cup members, its time to 1221. Beach Hilton $169! springbreak-kick the tires and light the fires and travel. com remember B-cup means Be Fast. ED, B. G., ll, Bread, Mikey D, Wiz, 1-800-678-6386 Congrats on a great weekend! Qball, Kdawg, Cbreeze, Gee, Mo. 
SpeciaiK, and Dfunk: JAZZERCISE NO SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS HAVE A GREAT DAY!! Very close to campus $10.00 -Cnote 277-0111 CALL MIKE at 288-0116 
page 11 
• TRACK AND FIELD 

Strong showings bode well for Big East meet 

By WILLY BAUER 
SportS Writer 

The only things that moved faster than the Notre Dame track team last weekend, were Star Wars tickets. 
The Irish track teams, both men's and women's, once again posted strong individual and team performances at the Meyo Invitational at Notre Dame. 
The Irish hosted six universi­ties for the annual meet. There were also a handful of profes­sional athletes who attended the meet. 
"I thought it went well," said coach Tom Piane. "We had three women who provisionally qualified for the NCAA's. Our men's long-distance medley team almost qualified, but they have a few opportunities left. Danny Payton ran very well in the medley and Jay Hofner placed in the 35-pound throw. Overall, it was a good week­end." 
The women's team dominat­ed the first place standings on Friday and Saturday. 
Alison Howard won the 400­meter dash and Nadia Schmiedt finished first in the 500-meters. 
Dominque Calloway contin­ued to tear up the cinders, win­ning the 200-meters, and quali­fying in the hurdles. Jennifer Engelhardt walked away victo­rious in the high jump. 
Calloway, Engelhardt and Joanna Deeter provisionally
Meeting 
qualified for the NCAA Indoor Championships over the week­end. 
Deeter came in second-place in the 5,000 meters to qualify for the NCAA's and was the first collegiate runner to cross the finish line. 
On the men's side, the long­
distance medley came within a 
hair's width of qualifying for 
the NCAA's, missing by 0.36 
seconds. Bobby Brown posted 
a 48.2 second split in the med­
ley. 
Jeff Hojnacki and Marshaun 
West had continued success in 
their respective events. 
Hojnacki won the 800-meters, 
and West continued to leap out 
of the building. He won the 
long jump, posting his third 
consecutive meet with a jump 
over 24 feet. 
Errol Williams, like his team­
ma,tes, continued to post 
impressive times. He shaved 
one hundredth of a second off 
of his previous best in the 60­.meter hurdles. 
The eyes of the track team 
now turn to the Big East cham­
pionships. 
Before that however, a few 
track members will be partici­
-pating in the Butler Invitational 
and the Central Collegiate 
Championships. 
"We are going to send a few 
men and women to 
Indianapolis and Michigan," 
said Piane. "We are going to sit 
a lot of people, however. We're 
really looking forward to the 
Big East meet." 
!Ill 

Help Wanted: Valentine Delivery 

m 
uesday, February 4th, 1997 p:OOPM ~oom 2038 -COBA lnext tq Pegg's Office) JVe Will diSCUSS: 
Finance Forum 
WEDNESDAY: 
Open Jam 
Mlchiana area's best bands 

Elections 
-
~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER 
is accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a remme and.five-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m. Thursday, February 6, 1997. For additional information about the position contact Business Manager Matt Casey at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief Liz Foran at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER 

-


Reaching out: Aimee Catrow, of Walsh Hall, battles the Alumni 
Hall squad during a water polo 
match at the Rolfs Aquatic 
Center (far left). Meanwhile, 
Monk plays tough D on an 
unsuspecting Olympian. 

For the 
What it's all about: Joel Hamburg (below), 16, of South Bend, cheers
kids 
his team on during the basketball game between the rectors and the Special Olympians. 

T
he 11th annual -Late Night Olympics took place last Friday night at the Joyce Center and lived up to everything that RecSports hoped to accomplish by sponsoring the event. 
The event drew over 1,200 students scattered throughout 230 teams partici­pating in 18 events. The record-setting participation also drew in a record-set­ting profit, as over $7,700 dollars will go to the St. joseph County Special Olympics. 
"It is the best turn out we've ever had and the most money we've ever raised," Kara O'Leary, RecSports coordinator, said. 
The teams competed in events such as wiffleball, kickball, volleyball, and kayaking. While the Sarin/Walsh team won, the highlight of-the Late Night Olympics was without doubt the basket­
-
ball game between the rectors and hall directors' team, coached by University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, and the Special Olympics team, coached by Chuck Lennon, director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Although they might be intimidating off the court, the rectors and hall directors could not carry that intimidation on the court, as the Special 91ympians walked away with the victory. 0~ special fea­ture of the game was that the Special Olympians were wearing uniforms pur­chased by the funds raised by last year's Late Night Olympics. 
The event, as a whole, was a resounding 
success and proved its purpose worthy. O'Leary concurred. "We try to offer the chance for a great 
social opportunity, while students com­pete and raise money for a great cause." Mission accomplished. 
Story by Betsy Baker Photos by Mike Ruma 

Questions?  lj1 t~hnriu·r I~-IIi, 1!1!17•  Questions?  
Call1-5136  SL .Jost•tJh's Ht•tr·t•at ft•nh•r·  Call1-5136  
4<~,  
... Look for a  
letter in Campus Mail  


page 13 

• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
;~<'t"'"~<~rljft AP<f'OT'fU!nP.i 
Belles effort falls justwith World Ta1:L Kwon Federation techniques. This semester -long course meets 
short of third victory
Sundays from 3~4 p.m. in 

Home for the summer? That class you need is here! 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. University of Pittsburgh Summer Sessions 
john Huston's 
• Large selection of transferable courses 
Moby ­
• 4, 6, and 12-week sessions starting ~--------------------------­
Sophomore Class Retreat 
Rockne Rm. 301. You must register in .. la(ivance at RecSports and the:fee is 
Jazz Dance A Jazz class will be offered Monday and Wednesday from 6-7:15 
p.m. in RockneRm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. There will be an in­formation meeting on Jan. 26 
in May, June and July I 
• 
Day, evening and Saturday classes : 

• 
Affordable tuition for PA residents : 


Easy registration by mail beginning February 24th 
To request a Summer 1997 Schedule Call: (412) 383-8600 E-mail: summer+@pitt.edu 
I 
1 : 
I 
I II 
I 
: 
I I I 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 

Neither team expected Monday night's game to turn out the way it did. Bethel was thinking landslide while Saint Mary's was hoping for its third win. 
Only the crowd of over 300 people at Bethel College saw the game as it happened, refus­ing to presume a victor until the buzzer sounded with the Pilots ahead, 68-61. 
"We tried to put Saint Mary's away," Bethel coach Frankie 
. Jackson said. "I wanted to get out to a 15 point lead so we could relax. But we only got ahead 10 points at the most, and then we dropped back down." The Belles' defensive efforts allowed them to stay in the game, although they could never slice the Pilot lead below four points. "We never gave up because we wanted to win this game," Belles senior center Marianne Banko said. "l have always seen Bethel as a rival of ours, and after beating them in the Roundball Classic (at Saint Mary's) earlier this season, we thought we were going to do it (Monday night). l really believe that we were the better team." But the Belles were not aware of the improvements Bethel had made since their last meeting, particularly in its second half play. "We came back in the second 
half with the press," Jackson said. "We did a really good job on the press. They could not handle it, and we forced a lot of turnovers. But we didn't han­dle the ball as well as would've liked either." 
While the first half was led by Pilot sophomores Dawn Hearon and Hope Lawson, sophomore Teri Totzke turned it on in the second half, scoring 21 points and grabbing five rebounds. 
"We're not dropping our heads like we did before," Jackson said. "We played smart basketball (Monday night),· and that's the thing we needed to do. Everybody con­tributed, doing a better job communicating and working together." 
The Belles front was led by Banko and Charlotte Albrecht, who each scored 16 points. 
"Free throws were definitely a problem for us," Banko said. "We did not come through when we needed to." 
Down by as little as four, the Belles failed at several chances in the game's final minutes to score points from the free­throw line. On the night, they finished at only 55 percent, making only 11 of 20. 
The Belles now drop to 2-14, 
a record they explain is not re­
flective of their efforts. 
"There is no team in South 
Bend with as much dedication 
and heart as this team," Belles 
coach David Roeder said. 
"They play for the love of this 
game." 


A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5 
Please send a University of Pittsburgh Summer 1997 Schedule of Classes to: 
Name:_____________ Mailingaddre."'------------­Cir)·'-________Sra«__Zip___ Telephone( __),___________ 
I learned of the Universiry of Pinshurgh's Sumnwr Sessions from a 
newspaper at  Univcrsiry/College.  
Mailto:  University Summer Sessions University of Pittsburgh 405 Cathedral of learning Pittsburgh, PA 15260-6119  

Dick 
starring Gregory Peck and Orson Welles 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE 

. 
·­

• fENCING 
At the beginning of the fenc­ing season, the Cleveland State meet was just another competi­tion on the course of a season aimed at a national champi­onship. But it was not expected was that the weekend would become a witness to Notre Dame fencing history. 
Senior sabre captain Bill Lester wrote his name in the record books this weekend by going 13-0 to raise his career win total to a record 189 to only 35 defeats. The seventh victory of the day proved to be the record breaking effort. 
"I am excited and happy that I did it. I was just trying to stay focused and do my best," said Lester. "But I have to admit that as much as I tried not to think about it, it was on my mind." 
What made the moment even more sweet was that Lester could share his joy with the man whose record he broke, assistant coach Mike Sullivan. Sullivan fenced for the Irish from 1976-79, compiling an in­credible record of 183-4. 
Yet another accolade is being one of two Irish fencers in his­tory to be named first team All­American for all four years. This impressive list of accom­

-
plishments is not lost on Lester. 

By DAVID FRICK Sports Writer 

"Though I overtook his record, my performance does not even begin to equal his," said Lester. 
Sullivan represents just one of many great fencers whom have fenced the strip for the Irish. Lester recognizes this sense of history and appreciates all of his success. 
"There have been a lot of good fencers to come through here, which makes the record that much more meaningful," said Lester. 
The competitive minded Sullivan was sorry to see his name erased from the record books, but took solace in his part in Lester's achievement as a coach. 
"''m just glad I was here to see it all happen," said Sullivan. 
One of the most impressive parts of Lester's feat is that he balances his athletic success with an equally adept academic touch. Lester was honored in 1996 as a GTE/CoSIDA Academic All-American, and has earned a 3.5 GPA while studying biochemistry. 
"It is difficult during the sea­son because you only have so much energy in a day. All you want to do after a hard practice is eat dinner and go to bed. But you have to maintain all of your responsibilities," said Lester. 
With Lester's aid, the fencing team took advantage of the lesser competition at Cleveland State by finishing with an unde­feated record on both the men's and women's sides. After sur­viving against top teams at Penn State last weekend and preparing for the top notch teams at Duke next weekend, the break was much deserved. 
"This weekend was a prepa­ration for regionals. We had to work on our records to improve on our seeds considering 40 percent of NCAA qualifying is the regular season record," said Sullivan. 
Major contributors on the men's side included undefeated performances by Phil Lee, Jeremy Siek, Luke LaValle, Lester, and John Scherpereel. 
The women received unde­feated performances from sophomore foilist Myriah Brown and sophomore foilist Nicole Paulina, which helped the team to win 172 of their 192 bouts of the day. But for the second week in a row, sophomore foilist Sara Walsh led the team with a 16-0 record to bring her season record to 34-0. 
"It feels great to be back. It makes me feel more complete to be back with the team," said Walsh. 
But though the team earned numerous victories in the meet, the day belonged to Notre Dame's most victorious fencer in history, Bill Lester. 
• MEN'S SWIMMING 
Hard work earns split for swiD101ers 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team split two weekend meets on the road, defeating the University of Buffalo on Friday and coming up just short of St. Bonaventure on Saturday. These two matches provided the Irish with a challenge and gave them confidence as they prepare for the upcoming Big East Championships. 
"This was a great weekend for us," commented head coach Tim Welsh. "Both meets were close, spirited meets where both teams gave their all and great races were swam." 
The Irish narrowily defeated Buffalo on Friday, 126-115, in a come-from-behind victory characteristic of this team's never-say-die mentality. Behind in the first half of the meet, the Irish rallied behjnd great diving performances from Herb Huesman and Tyler Maertz. These two divers placed first and second, respectively, in the one meter diving and first and third, respectively, in three meter diving. 
The Irish sealed the victory with an outstanding perfor­mance in the 200 meter breastroke, as Matt Rose, Steele Whowell, and Kevin McCluskey placed first, sec­ond, and fourth, respectively. 
On Saturday, the Irish trav-· eled to St. Bonaventure and were again involved in a close meet. St. Bonaventure leaped ahead early, winning the first five events and commanding a 59-34 lead. However, the Irish once agin refused to give up. 
Huesman won the one­meter diving and three-meter diving events, Ry Beville took the 200 meter butterly, and Chris Fugate and Jeff Page placed first and second in the 200 meter backstroke. The score was then knotted at 
97.5 for each team. 

At that point the Irish rally ran out of momentum, as St. Bonaventure took the last two events to win an extremely close meet by the score of 118.5-112.5. 
The defeat to St. Bonaventure snapped a four­meet winning streak for the Irish and dropped their record to 6-4 on the season. 
Notre Dame will look to begin a new winning streak against Western Kentucky on Friday in its final home dual meet of the season. 

Featuring Nightly Entertainment 
and 

GREAT STUDENT DISCOUNTS 

lm~R~ TO JUNIOR~ ABROAD  
JUST DROP YOUR MAIL TO JUNIORS  
ABROAD OFF AT THE CLASS OF I  
WATCH FOR THE THE CLASS  OFFICE (213 LAFUN) ADDRESSED  
NEWSLffiER IN THE MAIL  WITH YOUR FRIEND1SNAME AND  
THIS WEEK.  THE CITY THEY ARE STUDYING IN  
&WE'LL DO THE REST. MAILINGS  
Class.of.l998@nd.edu  GO OUT AT THE END OF EACH  
www.nd.edu:80/-ndl998  MONTH.  


CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-








MIKE PETERS 
I THINK ! HOPe lr'OU SAVEP tHe 
RECEIPT, 
SCOTT ADAMS 
r-------------------~Gr-------------------~ 
t CAt-..l'T GE.T ONLINE BECAUSE t-\Y P~SSWORD DOESN'T WOf\1<....  ~ ~  !. CA.N'T SEND 'OE.CAU5E. 1 C~Gt:\ ON iHE  E·f"\M.\.. N'\ 5i!NKIN I  
NE\WORK \!!  
.SEND ME AN E-MA.IL ~E5SAGE.  
ABOUT IT.  

62 Ravel work, with "La" 64 Legal scholar Guinier 65 Villa d'-­
66 "Give peace --time,O Lord": Morning Prayer 
67 Prime time hour 
68 Mets stadium 
69 Gently gallops 
70 Pub round 

71 Like a Granny 
Smith apple 
DOWN 

1 Where train commuters drink 
2 Come to the fore 3 No-nos 4 Pronto! 5 Kind of medicine 6 Call off a takeoff 

topic Yearwood 58 Prefix with 51 Resurrection 
second 
Mass day 60Arm bone 52 Warm up again &1Hornets' home 54 Escargot 63 Take to court 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HAPPf lliRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Family and linancial pressures will lessen, allowing you to move suc­cessfully into new areas. Devote more time to self-improvement pro­jects. Business and pleasure will go hand-in-hand throughout the sum­mer. A casual romance could devel­op into the real thing. September will bring travel and renewed com­mitmenl to your work. A spiritual quesl could lead to an important breakthrough. Give credit where it is due, especially when relatives help out. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: director Ida Lupino, author Betty Friedan, singer Alice Cooper, comedian David Brenner. 
ARIEi(March 21-April 19):.An important business offer is on the table. Do not let your enthusiasm lead you to show your hand. Curb a tendency to become impatient. Play it cool in romance. Ultimalums are best avoided. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): New business developments suit you to a "T" despite minor irrita­tions. Emphasize positive thinking by looking on the bright side. A romantic relationship requires kid­glove handling. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone's negotiating tactics try your patience. Rely on common sense and your bargaining powers. Be willing to make intelligent con­cessions. Your romantic feelings for someone grow stronger. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Caution is needed where business and investments are concerned. Do not allow distractions to interfere with your progress at work. Some­one's proposal may be deceptive. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Exercise tact when dealing with sensitive people and ticklish situations. You need to think things through before tackling a complex project. Your romantic pm1ncr is surportive. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone else·s mistake works to your advantage. A job offer is forth­coming. Your loHd ones share 
happy news. A romantic encounter 
could be a source of inspiration. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take advantage of this month's benelicial career trends. A co,·etcd assignmenl or promotion is coming yourway. Rise above peny comments or con­cerns. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Let others take the lead at work while you keep a low profile. Some­one who refuses to lay his cards on the table could have a hidden agen­da. A.family chat helps restore domestic tranquillity. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A business trip sounds exciting. Instead of buying a lot of new clothes, make do with what you already have. Gather tax materials and receipts to give to your accoun­tant. Donate unwanted items to charity. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Maneuvering behind the scenes will let you accomplish more than working in the open. Listen respect­fully to an older person's advice, but reiy on your instincts when the chi.ps are down. Unwind at home. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): An innovative approach is favored in business or career. Speaking engagements and writing projects enjoy favorable influences. Shop for household necessities, but examine merchandise carefully if buying items on sale. Romance really siz­zles tonight! 
. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Needless worry can affect your health. Have more faith in yourself and others. Good news arrives from someone at adistance. Unfinished tasks can be easily completed now. Enlist the assisrance of family mem­bers . 

_... 
-
7 50's western "The--Kid" aShip's central beam 9 Russian horseman 10 Take steps 
11 Auto disassembly site 
12 Actress Hatcher 
13 Gets one's goat 
21 Singer Irene 
22 Building wing 
27 Quagmire 
29 Recorded 
30 Point after deuce 31 Single 32 Conducted 34 Disposable diaper brand 35 Bordeaux summer 37 Foot: Lat. 38Theworks 39 Carriage horse sound 41 People who don't count 44 Evening meals 

--~~--­
w-------------------------­
Tuesday, February 4, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
Late Night 0\~mpic.& )(I 
l.hampionr, Sorin 6-Walsh 
Thanks to everyone who participated we were able to raise $7,782.10 for Special Olympics! 
-
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, February 4, 1997 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

Irish search for consistency against Red Storm 
Rebounding, free throw shooting keys to beating St. John's 

By MIKE DAY Assistant Sports Editor 
As the saying goes, you have to learn to walk before you can learn to cra:wl. That is certainly the case with the Notre Dame basketball team. 
Before the Irish can work their way up to becoming a bona fide threat in the Big East conference, they will first have to polish up on their fundamentals. 
And it all begins at the foul line. 

"We have struggled there for much of the season, and it has hurt us at times," said Irish head coach John Macleod. "It is an area we have worked on a lot, but we know we'll have to continue to work and improve on it." 
Indeed, heading into tonight's contest against St. John'~ at the Joyce Center, Notre Dame has had its ups and downs at the free throw line. The Irish shot just 57 percent from the stripe in a 76­75 loss to Indiana, and the team convert­ed less than 60 percent of its foul shots in a tough 70-57 loss to Georgetown. 
Junior forward Pat Garrity ranks among the conference leaders, shooting just under 75 percent, but the rest of the regulars have struggled throughout the year. 
But if recent signs are any indication, mediocre free throw shooting could be a thing of the past. 
After nailing down seven of eight foul shots at West Virginia on Jan. 25, the Irish converted a season-best 19 of 21 last Wednesday at Pittsburgh. 
"We've lacked consistency from the foul line and it has cost us in some games this year," said small forward Derek Manner. "We spend a lot of time in ptactice working on free throw shoot­ing. We know it's time that we see some results." 
After consecutive conference losses to the Panthers and the Mountaineers, Notre Dame stands at 3-7 in Big East play, 9-9 overall. With St. John's (4-7, 9-10) struggling to maintain consistency, the Irish know this is the kind of game they need to win. 
"They're a strong team that plays with a physical style," said guard Admorc White. "We've beat them before (last year), so we kn'lw we can play with them. It's up to us to go out and execute our style of game." 
Last season, Notre Dame split the series with the Red Storm, winning 86­83 at Madison Sqare Garden before los­ing a tough contest (74-66) at the Joyce Center. 
Once again, St. John's is led by junior forward Felipe Lopez (15.3 ppg, 6.6 rpg). The former Sports Illustrated cover boy has never lived up to his hype but con­tinues to be a solid player in his third year with the Red Storm. 
Center Zendon Hamilton ( 14.7 ppg, 9.2 rpg'M\nd power forward Charles Minlcnd (13.7, 7.1) give St. John's the size and strength to keep Notre Dame's big men -Pat Garrity, Matt Gotsch. and Phil Hickey-busy. 
"They are a good rebounding team that is not afraid to get down and do the dirty work," said MacLeod. "It's a must that we keep them away from the offen­sive glass and get some offensive rebounds of our own." 

The Observer/Rob Finch Head coach John Macleod believes that rebounding on both sides of the floor will be a key aspect of tonight's matchup with St. John's. 
• WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Regular season winds down 
Gallo impresses, leads squad to weekend split 
By BILL HART Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame's women's swim­
ming team went 1-1 in a double 
dual-meet on Saturday to close

..... 
son with a 7­5 record overall. 
"We swam well against both teams," head coach B a i I e y Weathers 

commented. Gallo 
"We won 
some events and did very well 
against the Wolverine squad." 
Michigan, currently No. 3 in the polls, beat the Irish 82-58 in one of the lowest scoring meets of the year. Eastern Michigan, on the other end of 

.. 
the spectrum, was over­whelmed in the onslaught as the Irish crushed them, 116-23. 
"Michigan has been one of the perennial powerhouses of swimming for the past five years," Weathers said. "This was definitely one of the tougher squads we've faced this year." 

Individually, the Irish were led by Linda Gallo, who won the 1000 meter, 500 meter and 200 meter freestyle events. Erin Brooks won the 200 meter backstroke and Liz Barger was first in the 100 meter butterfly event. 
"I was really happy with the times I produced on Saturday," Gallo commented. "Overall, I think the team really swam well. Michigan was one of the toughest matches of the season, and I was pleased by our per­formance." 
"The three events that Gallo won really improved the team's confidence." Weathers com­mented. 
As the end of the season ap­proaches, Weathers believes that the team is in very good shape for the Big East Championships which will be held in three weeks. 
"I'm looking forward to a good meet this year," said the coach. "I think we closed up a lot of weaknesses over the sea­son. and that some of the dual­meets against the Big 10 teams we had late in the season pre­pared the team well. I think that Miami and Villanova will be the teams to beat this year." 
Gallo echoed his thoughts. 
"I think we have a pretty good shot of winning the meet this year." 
"Individually, I think we'll have some top performers," Brooks said. "We're pretty confident that the team will improve their times during this meet. We placed third last year, and we hope to move up from there." 
A number of Irish swimmers achieved some of the top times in the Big East this season. 
Among the impressive perfor­mances were Gallo's overall second place in the 1000 freestyle and Brooks' confer­ence best in the 100 back­stroke. 
In the 200 butterfly, Barger and Alison Newell took second and third place respectively. Barger als{) placed first in the 100 meter butterfly event for the Irish. 
"It wasn't really surprising that we did so well," Brooks commented. "We've got a lot of talented members on our squad. I think by the end of the Big East Championships we'll sec a lot more swimmers in the top 10 of some of those events." 
The Irish return to the pool in the Big East Championships whieh will take place at Rutgers on Feb. 19-22. 
• fOOTBAll 

Davie lands a star, solves need in Driver 
T
o say that the Irish need­ed a break would be a fallacy. A miraele would be closer to the truth. When you look back to the past suc­cess of the Irish, names like Tim Brown, Haghib Ismail and 
H i c k y Watters tend to stick out. 
What has happened to the Irish, that 
\'if.. ~ 
they cannot 

t~/ replace such gamebreak­ers? Sure you can look Recruiting 

to Lake Correspondent Dawson and Derrick Mayes, but neither pro­
vided the gamebreaking speed that Brown, Ismail and Watters possessed. The last player the Irish had signed with sueh abil­ity was Randy Moss and we all know his story. 
Lou Holtz started this recruit­ing campaign pointing out the need for speed and game­breakers, and he promised to deliver them. Bob Davie was ending the Irish recruiting campaign without honoring Holtz's promise. 
Only two all-Americans re­mained for the Irish, athlete Tony Driver of Louisville, Kent. and tailback Travis Minor o Baton Rouge, LA, and neither appeared to be heading Notre Dame's way. 
While Driver had postponed his .January 26 commitment to Florida State, the Seminoles remained the leader with Penn State and Louisville following far behind. Notre Dame was a long shot at best. Minor was still considering the Irish, but hometown Louisiana State and Florida State were the two schools to beat. 
Yet, reeall the second rule o recruiting. Hecruits tend to commit to their initial favorite despite other leanings in be­tween. Then, remember that Driver had once been silently committed to lloltz, and the fol­lowing begins to make sense. 
Tony Driver: Last Sunday, Tony Driver (6-3, 210, 4.4) shocked the recruiting world when he committed to Notre Dame. Florida State was al­ready writing his name on a jersey (and throwing in a (ree 
see RECRUITS I page I 0 
Women's tennis at Rolex Nat'l 
vs. St. Johns 

Indoor Championships a) • Lester breaks fencing record 
Today, 7:30p.m. 
February 3-6 
SPoRTs 

see page 14
'C
•• Men's tennis vs. William and Mary 
.....
vs. Syracuse
A'n:' lA. 

Wednesday, 3:30p.m. •Tracksters head for post-season 
February 6, 7 p.m. 

~ 
"-
Basketball at Bethel College see page II
vs. Ohio State 
Gll1Jt1f«:Bt: 

Tonight, 7 p.m. 
February 7, 7 p.m. 
~ 
~ 



