
Tuesday, AprillS, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 124 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

GSU announces instructor, assistant award recipients 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN ence with teaching and I decid­lab for pre-health professional Assistant News Editor ed that if I didn't enjoy it, I was group. I have three classes with going to have to make some a total of about 50 students. I 
The Graduate Student Union major changes in the plans for am responsible for the class, has officially announced the my graduate education. But I which allows for a lot of one­winners of its 1996-97 teaching did enjoy it and I decided that it on-one interaction with the stu­awards for both an indepen­is something that I want to dents." dent instructor and for teach­keep going with." "Three years ago, the GSU ing assistant. Janning taught the same soci­decided to recognize the role of 
Michelle Janning, the recent­ology class that won her the students in teaching with the ly elected vice president of the award again this semester and limited funds that we have," GSU, won the independent will teach a section of the said Beth Caniglia, outgoing instructor award for the sociol­Social Problems sociology class chair of the intellectual life ogy class that she taught last next semester. committee. "It comes with a semester. "I am very honored The teaching assistant award $100 cash award to each of the and surprised to receive the went to Romi Sniveley, an winners. Also, when going for a award," she said. "I understand assistant in the biological sci­professorship, any award looks that [the committee] had a ences department. "It's nice to good on a vita." large field of good applicants be honored for something that Applications for the awards and that they had a hard time you enjoy," she said. "The class deciding. It was my first experi-that I teach is general biology see AWARDS I page 4 

Graduate Student Un:ion Teaching Awards :l::~. ~.lrtd.!Ul§Jl!l ent Instructg rs :z1~;; 
1996-97 Michelle Janning Sociology 1995-96 Catherine Murphy Theology 1994-95 Deborah Delaet Government 
.."I..t:t~~.b.,Lng Assistants 
1996~97 Romi Sniveley Biological Sciences 1995-96 Gordon Brumwell Biological Sciences 1994-95 Daniel Stauffer Chemistry & Biochemistry 
The O~server!Tom Roland 
A symbol of scholarship.•• 


Council focuses on coiDplaints 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
he University of Notre Dame's chapter of Tau Beta 
e national engineering honor society which recognizes 
eering students of "superior scholarship and exem­
character," dedicated a sculpture Tuesday as a re der of the presence of the society on campus. 
University president Father Malloy (left) offered a blessing at the dedication. Tau Beta Pi executive councillor John Luchini (above) was also on hand to deliver remarks about the chapter, the replica of the group's insignia and the stained glass windows. 
Three engineering students, Christopher Mullins, Desney Tan, and Meagan O'Neil, did the preliminary research and wrote the proposal that was submitted to the University. The trio knew of other schools who had erected similar monuments, and wished to have one of their own. The stu­dents were hoping for the project to be completed within two or three years, and were surprised when their plan became reality within only one year. 
The College of Engineering worked with the University in orchestrating and funding the entire project. 
In its first meeting since the revision of the Student Union constitution, the Campus Life Council addressed the recent complaints from the College Democrats about the University's non-dis­
crimination clauses. 
The council focused on the fact that the officers of the University are currently review­ing the clauses to possibly include sexual orientation. "Professor O'Hara did indicate that she would bring the recom­mendation to the attention of 


the officers," said William Kirk, Szabo assistant vice president of resi­dence life. "They will continue to meet and the issue will be further addressed by the full comple­ment of officers." 
Matt Szabo, the Morrissey Hall senator, pre­sented a resolution to the council calling for "the Office of Student Affairs [to] establish a deadline by which the aforementioned decision will be reached." 
He explained that the idea for the resolution came out of a meeting of the College Democrats on Sunday night. "They told me at that meeting that they are going to demonstrate on the main building next week," Szabo said. "Anything that will get that much response is probably worth addressing in this body." · 
But the council decided that the best way to 
see CLC I page 4 

Counselor incorporates service in defining community 
By SARAH CORKREAN As she completes her first year as a locally and individually in the college Saint Mary's News Editor career counselor at Saint Mary's, community," said Richardson. "I always Richardson noted her most difficult ask myself what I can do as a career The Counseling and Career challenge during the transition from the counselor to help people. The best 
Development Center (C&CDC) at Saint larger community in Kentucky to a answer so far has been to just pay atten­Mary's College has much more to offer counselor at Saint Mary's was getting tion to needs students express." than just tips on interviewing skills and over the culture shock. ' Richardson has a great amount of career opportunities. "When you work with a group that is experience working with economically 
Christine Richardson, assistant direc­economically and educationally deprived and educationally deprived women. Her tor of the C&CDC, draws from personal and then join the women of Saint occupation before coming to Saint experience as a community volunteer in Mary's, who put such an emphasis on Mary's was to counsel and prepare the public and private sectors, when education, the adjustment takes time," women to enter the work force. advising students about volunteer Richardson said. Through encouraging and educatingopportunities after college in the public Having worked with the two distinct women in self-sufficiency programs,and private sectors. 
groups, Richardson feels that she has which included classes that would lead 
Richardson, the guest speaker of the found ways to serve the college commu­to a feasible income for living expendi­Justice Education Conversation Series, nity, but finds the best way to serve all tures and childcare, Richardson saw a attempted to define the nature of com­people is to pay attention to the needs community develop between the groupmunity based on work related experi­and events that are going on in their and of women, counselors, and the wider ences she has encountered throughout how they react. public. her career. "I am the most comfortable serving 
see WOMEN I page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, Aprill5, 1997 

• INsme Cm.uMH 




He was JaCkie 

Robinson 
Flash back to 1947... 
It was April15, and Ebbets Field was in full bloom with the red, white, and blue bunting lining the grand­stand in preparation for another year, another Opening Day. 
But as the hometown Brooklyn Dodgers took their positions in the field to begin the game, there was someone new at first base. 
Jackie Robinson. The first African-American player in modern major league baseball history. 
As baseball begins a season-long celebration of the 50th anniversary of the end to baseball's unwritten color barrier, the media are armed and ready to cover every aspect, every angle of the story. Newspapers with web sites hold dozens of stories, ESPN promises special coverage this week, and Ted Koppel will devote Friday's "Nightline" to Robinson. 
Tonight, as the Dodgers play the New York Mets-the National League's r~=Jplacement for the old Brooklyn Dodgers -baseball will hold a spe­cial ceremony to commemorate Robinson ... with plenty of media personnel looking on. 
But 50 years ago at Ebbets Field, Robinson's presence scarcely drew the attention of the media types. Robinson's debut produced no front-page banner headlines, or the dramatic coverage the news media would heap on a similar story today. 
The newspapers' preview stories for Opening Day were no more informative. The Daily News, for example, waited until the 17th paragraph of its story to mention Robinson. 
But if Robinson didn't catch the attention of the media, he certainly got more than his share from the opposing players, on and off the field, throughout his 10-year career. When he first came up to the Dodgers, he promised the club's owner, Branch Rickey, that he would turn the other cheek in every instance for the first two years. Rickey and Robinson -like Larry Doby, the first black player in the American League, who followed Robinson on July 5 of the same sea­son -knew that any scrape would jeopardize the chances of future black players. 
Before Brown v. Board of Education, before Rosa Parks, before Martin Luther King, Jr., there was Jackie Robinson. In the later years of his career, Robinson was outspoken toward anyone wh~ challenged him because of his race, and after his career ended he wrote several letters to Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy, expressing his disappointment with the treatment of blacks in all sectors of society. 
But on the baseball field, Robinson was a ballplayer first. His abilities made it easy for other teams to sign black players without suffering the scorn of small-minded fans or reporters, made it almost mandatory that the other players accept his right to be alongside them, and ushered in the era in which black athletes have made the action in other sports stronger, faster, better. 
Flashforward to 1997... 
Golf, long the last fortress of white exclusivity in professional sports, has been slow in catching up with the times. Perhaps it's because the cost for a youngster to play a round of golf at a public course is almost half the cost to sign up for a full season of Little League. But last weekend, the sport took a giant step forward. 
When Tiger Woods won the Masters with an inconceivable margin of victory, the media ate it up. CBS had a virtual Tiger-Cam on Woods during the last two rounds, and newspapers nationwide had headlines screaming, "The Tiger Roars." 
It was a far cry from 1947. One of the familiar jingo of pop culture these days is, "I am Tiger Woods." Tiger has Jackie to thank. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•Tootw's STAFF 
News Accent Heather MacKenzie Joey Crawford Allison Koenig 
Viewpoint Derek Betcher 
Eddie Llull Sports 
Production Brian Reinthaler 
Chris Uhart Kevin Robinson 
Heather MacKenzie Graphics Lab Tech Tom Roland 
Kevin Dalum 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORIJJ AT AGlANCE 

Rebels capture Zaire's captital after three-day rest 
LUBUMBASHI,Zaire 
Sailing through the wide avenues of Lubumbashi in a four-wheel-drive vehicle, rebel leader Laurent Kabila 
hailed cheering crowds Monday in the strategic city his forces captured just days earlier. 
Several thousand people lined the streets to greet Kabila, calling him "liberator" while rebel troops looked on. Kabila thrust his fists in the air and waved back. 
Another fist -a huge sculpted bronze symbol of President Mobutu Sese Seko's power -had been removed from its pedestal in the cen­ter of a traffic circle and was no longer in sight. 
Even in one of Mobutu's last remaining strongholds -the capital, 
za"i.re-~-pdate 

........ ~:~~~:~~nwf~~~gfar ~:~:~~~~;,e;.:;~~but ,-__;_K:::is;:::an:.=.ga:::.n::...i_____::co:::;n;;.:tro::...l__~ 
Kinshasa ­staged Monday to demand Mobutu's ouster. Shops were locked tight and streets deserted, and many residents said they would welcome Kabila -or just about anyone else who could end Mobutu's three-decade dictatorship. 
"We want change. We're willing to accept anyone ­even the devil should he arrive -if it will bring 


AP/Carl Fox 
crowd. 
Clinton's taxes reveal his net wealth 
Thanks to his wife; President Clinton can claim he's a millionaire, at least on paper. One day before tax deadline, the president and Hillary Rodham Clinton reported $1,065,101 in adjusted gross income last year. They paid $199,791 in federal taxes. However, the Clintons are not as wealthy as the big numbers sug­gest. Most of the money-$742,852-
""'-'""-'L-.....__ came from royalties from Mrs. Clinton's book, "It Takes a Village," and she is giving most of it away to charities. From her royalties, Mrs. Clinton made donations totaling $590,000 and kept about $152,000 to pay the federal and state taxes the Clintons owe as a result of the book's rev­enmis. "As a general principle, Mrs. Clinton will neither benefit or end up in less fortunate circumstances as a result of having written her book," presidential spokesman Mike McCurry said. As for Clinton's millionaire status, McCurry said, "He's got some bills hanging around that probably would diminish his enthusiasm for that des­ignation." 


Senate refuses to admit guide dog 
WASHINGTON 
Only a select few people are allowed within the sanctity of the Senate chamber, but Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., asked his colleagues Monday to admit a dog -and he was quickly rebuffed. Wyden wanted senators· to allow Moira Shea, a blind congressional fellow working in his office, to bring her guide. dog, Beau, into the chamber during a debate on nuclear waste. When his request was rejected, Wyden said "a guide dog is a person's vision" and accused the Senate of violating the Americans With Disabilities Act by discriminating against blind people. A Democratic senator telephoned the Senate cloak room and voiced his objection, blocking the request. Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., said that while he personally had no objec­tion to bringing in the dog, he was raising a formal protest on behalf of the other senator, whom no one would identi­fy. That led Wyden to extol the benefits of guide dogs as "working dogs" that should be given some leeway. 'The Senate should change its rules," he declared. 


change," said Willy Kashama, who stayed home from work to support the strike. The rebels captured Lubumbashi, Zaire's second-largest city and the capital of a mineral-rich region, after a battle Friday at the air­port with a special army unit loyal to Mobutu. They announced over the weekend they were resuming their advance on Kinshasa, after stopping three days to give Mobutu time to think over their demand that he quit. 
Kabila's Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo­Zaire has captured nearly half the country in its seven-month push west­ward. After his men seize a city, Kabila usually arrives in triumph -as he did Monday -and appoints new local offi­cials or calls for a voice vote from a 
In this case, he appointed one of his own as governor of the Shaba region, whose ground holds Zaire's copper, cobalt and uranium deposits and whose history is one of secessionist rebellion. The region is Kabila's birthplace. 
Kabila named Gaetan Kakudji as governor for the time being because of conflicts among rival factions. 

Post offices try to bring joy to taxes 
WASHINGTON 
Now it can be stated as fact. The IRS is out for blood. At least that's the case in Harrisburg, Pa., where last-minute tax filers Tuesday will be urged to donate blood or money -if the IRS hasn't taken it all -to the local blood bank. In return, procrastinators will have their cars washed by volunteer IRS agents. The blood drive is just one of many gimmicks the U.S. Postal Service and the IRS have come up with to add some levity to Tuesday's deadline, when an estimated 33 million Americans will mail their taxes. In Champaign, Ill., folks can take a bite out of the IRS, thank~ to cakes shaped like the letters in the agency's name. The cakes are donated by a local radio station. "The IRS takes a bite out of you, why not take a bite out of them?" asked postmaster Milton Johnson. And in Memphis, Tenn., taxpayers who donate a dollar to a chil­dren's hospital can take a whack at a "tax mobile" with a baseball bat. "It's just all part of making the burden of paying taxes a little more pleasurable, especially if you're paying," said Beth Barnett, spokeswoman for the state's postal service. Events poking fun at the IRS are popular, says revenue agent Dennis Zmudzin. 

Cyber-stalker harasses family 
EMERYVILLE, Ontario 
The trouble began in December, when puzzled friends told Debbie and Dwayne Tarnai their telephone calls to the couple were repeatedly being waylaid and cut off. A month later, missed messages and strange clickings seemed minor when a disembodied voice, eerily distorted by computer, first interrupted a call to make himself known. After burping repeatedly, the caller told a startled Mrs. Tarnai, "I know who you are. I stole your voice mail." Mocking, sometimes menacing, the high-tech stalk­er has become a constant presence, eavesdropping on family conversations, switching TV channels, shutting off the electricity -and totally baffling the electronics experts trying to track his mischief. He calls himself Sommy. Neither the Tamais nor the police have a clue who Sommy is, how he does it or why he has targeted this family. His primary aim seems to be taunting the Tamais while stumping investigators from the Ontario provincial police and the local electric company. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 15. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWealher. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L B ISS! ITil 0 . ~ 8 1) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PTCLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vl.t Associated PnMs 


Tuesday 

Wednesday~ >57 31 Thursd-ay ~ 47 30 
Friday\ ~~+~52 36 


Satur&ay /i-~ 
~...J/\)"'''"'V/' '\-._r·: 

Anchorage 39 32 Itelena 41 38 San Diego 70 58 Atlanta 59 34 Juneau 46 42 Spokane 50 32 Bismarck 56 26 Memphis 63 34 Tampa 65 60 Denver 60 35 Norfolk 53 44 Tulsa 63 32 
~~~q~~¢-1E1 £) 
S~~;e~; T-~t~;,;s Rain ~~~;;;~~ 'i~~·;=· ~:a -Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Greensboro 57 37 Reno 66 36 Wichita 63 28
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Tuesday, Aprill5, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Vitousek blames humans for environmental effects 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
News Writer 
"The evidence is overwhelm­ing that we are changing the world," stated Peter Vitousek of Stanford's biology department, "and the evidence is very good that things will change a lot more." 
Vitousek spoke last night at the Galvin auditorium on the dramatic effects that humans have had on the global environ­ment. His lecture. entitled "Global Environmental Change: A Reality, Not a Controversy," focused particularly on three scientific phenomena which he said have undoubtedly human causes. 
He began by addressing the problem of an increasing atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide. Since 1955, he said. the carbon dioxide con­centration has increased by over 40 parts per million, which is about 28 percent. 
Furthermore, he emphasized that this is not part of a normal els]," he remarked. to dominate where several cycle of fluctuation. "The mod­Vitousek continued to specu­species once thrived. ern increase is between five late on the problem of nitrogen The species which dominate and 10 times faster than any concentration, which is largely are usually the ones that are increase in the past," Vitousek the result of humans' use of the most taxing on the land. In noted. fertilizers. According to an experiment with grasses, he 
During the Middle Ages, the Vitousek, an abundance of pointed out, "the fields previ­concentration remained con­nitrogen can be harmful ously dominated by nutrient stant at about 280 parts per because it limits the diversity of poor grasses are now dominat­million. Over a more extensive plant species in areas where it ed by nutrient demanding time period, the con­
-----------------grasses."
centration fluctuated Finally, Vitousek such that it reached spoke on the invasion of 
'The modern increase [in atmos­

320 parts per million; exotic species into other this figure is sur­pheric C02] is between five areas. One particularly passed by today's 360 . and 10 times faster than any devastating example parts per million, was the deliberate
. increase in the past.' 

which is believed to be introduction of the the highest level ever. Golden Apple Snail into 
"No place on Earth is Peter Vitousek East Asia from South not affected by that," -----------------America in the 1980's. he said. The intention was to 
The two factors which he is fixed. This is because while give the East Asians a better cited as most responsible for extra nitrogen increases the livelihood through the snails, this inconsistency are first, fos­productivity of the land, it also which they could raise, culti­sil fuel consumption and sec­allows for those species which vate and then sell for food. ond, deforestation. "There's are particularly responsive to Howeve~. the enterprise more than enough fossil fuel nitrogen to dominate and use ended in disaster. "The snails combustion to account for [the up the nutrients in the earth. love rice," Vitousek explained, increase in carbon dioxide lev-As a result, single species begin "and they spread through irri­
gation channels easily." This 
was extremely damaging and still continues to pester coun­tries in Asia where rice is the main crop. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1998-99. 
~11 freshmen, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Thursday evening, April 17, 1997 at 6:30pm in room 126 DeBartolo 
******A Great Notre Dame Tradition of Winning Fulbrights****** 
In fact, Vitousek insisted, the abundance of snails has caused the Philippines to completely lose one of its main sources of income. "The cost of the snail invasion in the Philippines, is between 30 and 50 million dol­lars per year," he said. "That is enough to turn the Philippines into a net importer of rice by the late 1980s." 
Another example of this is found in Hawaii, where African grasses which have been intro­duced to the region have caused fires from volcanic eruptions to become serious problems. 
"With the invasion of this grass," he said, "the interstices between the shrubs were filled in." This grass "burns extreme­ly effectively, so that the prob­lem of a substantial fire is much greater." 
Vitousek concluded by encouraging Notre Dame's community to become active in communicating the facts about environmental changes. 
"We can hope to slow the rates of change to give us and other components of the [eco­logical] system a chance to adjust," he stated. 


"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 




Class of 2000 
Applications for Committee Head positions can now be picked up in the Student Government Office. Applications are due back no later than 5:00 pm 
Wed n e s day, ApriI  1 6  in  the  
Freshman  Class Council  Box  
which  is also  located in  the  
Student Governmant Office.  


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April IS, 1997 
Awards 
continued from page 1 
were due by mid-March. The applications are seperated by college within the graduate school. "We have one person look at each category," Caniglia 

WoiDen 
continued from page 1 
"These deprived women needed help. With support from the federal government, we were able to provide the women work-force training and a resume that would translate into a job and health care ben­efits for their families," Richardson said. 
As the women embarked on the road to self-sufficiency, the problem of not having profes­sional work attire surfaced and the community responded by sponsoring clothes drives. 
"What seems like such a basic need of building a work-said. 
'·'We tried to narrow the [30 applications] down to a only a couple. Then we submit them over to the graduate school, where Barbara Turpin has been kind enough to sift through them for us, rank them, and choose our two final­ists." 

ing wardrobe was so far removed for these women that we even had to teach them to put on make-up," Richardson said. "We witnessed community with the outpouring of clothes and cosmetics that were donat­ed." 
Noting that the community paid attention and responded by sharing their abundance with the deprived, Richardson feels that often the most deprived and needy people are within our own communities. 
"We need to look to our neighbors, churches, and school systems that are in need. To notice what is going on, we must look for ways to donate community whether it be through material goods or emotionally." 


Friday, April 18 7:30p.m. 
Saturday, April 19 7:30p.m. 
Sunday, April 20 2:30p.m. 

Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 -8128 

based on the novel by 
John Steinbeck 
adapted by 


Frank Galati 
directed by 

Reginald Bain 

CONCERNS


No Summer Plans?? 

•8 Weeks volunteer work In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs Applications Available: 
at the Center for Social Concerns Projects Available in: 
Alabama Alaska Aurora Austin Tx Detroit Raleigh, NC Ft. Wayne Hilton Head, SC Indianapolis Louisville, KV Kokomo, IN Maine Michigan City, IN Ocala, FL So. Louisiana Plymouth, IN Mpls/St.Paul Dixon, IL So.louisiana and more 
Stop in for more information or call Sue Cunningham, 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer, 4-1384 

COLLEGIATE STUDENT STORAGE, INC. 
The Leaders in Professional Storage for College Students 
A Better Option Than Bringing Everything Home 
-~···
i. 
··::·::· 
CALL NOW! SUMMER IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER 




800-3STORE9 
(378-6739) 
di CURBSIDE PICK-UP AND DELIVERY ---. .01 BOXESAND PACKING MATERIALS ~... motNT -VISA 61 INSURED &BONDED FACILITIES ~~.· A:)VANTAG<" ~d 
~ PROFESSIONAL MOVERS .-~~"'-·~ EDD <!':• d"i BETIER BUSINESS BUREAU MEMBER 0 Delivery off campus available 
tlfDI 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
women transitional housing 
Respite Ctr. for physical and emotional 
Mooseheart home for kids (21) 
male-Hispanic youth program-parish 
two; LaSed, Red Cross 
Food program (includes garden) 
Boys & Girls Club 
(Car) -Boys &: Girls Club 
3 projects male-Outreach programs 
YWCA shelter for women and kids 
small home for teen aged girls 
(Car) -Elderly 
tutoring/ recreation for kids 
transitional housing-women, kids 
Boys &: Girls Club housing program Disabilitiesprogram 
transitional home/women/kids mittee members are and what the time frame is." 
At the end of the meeting, the council discussed possibly updating the CLC constitution and brainstorming for agenda ideas to be discussed at the next scheduled meeting, which will take place on April 28. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
address student concerns was to write a letter to O'Hara ask­ing that she update the council on the revision's 'progress and offering the council's support for the process. 
"We do not really need a res­olution," said Ava Preacher, Faculty Senate member of the 
CLC. "It is probably better just to send her a letter and get a letter back that says that this is being worked on, who the com­

The Observer/Katy Soby 

Neve Gordon, a graduate student (left), government professor Patricia Davis (center) and business professor Father Oliver Williams argued that the voice of the consumer is the best weapon in fighting rights abuses in foreign factories run by U.S. firms. 
THE NOTRE DAME AFRICAN STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION 
THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
c E N T E R F 0 R STUDENT GOVERNMENT & THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
SOC'IAL 
PROUDLY PRESENT 
CONCERNS

Kwassa-Kwassa......,.....,. 
An International Music & Dance Party /eaturing the BEST a/ 
African Rhythms Caribbean Rhythms Latin-American Rhythms European Rhythms Middle-East & Asian Rhythms American Rhythms 
Date: Friday, April 18 Venue: Alumni Senior Club (near Business College) Time .1: 6:30 -8:30 PM: Family Time: Kids all ages & parents Art & Clothing Exhibit-Music-Stories & Games Time 2: 8:3oPM -1:ooAM NON-ALCOHOLIC PARTY OPEN TO ALL 
Free Admission COME CELEBRATE DIVERSITY IN HARMONY!!! 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 

Ethics and Religious Values in Business and a consultant to various corporations on issues of ethics, said the companies signed the code because of the public's reaction to recent reports of human rights abuses in sweatshops worldwide. 
"The power you have as con­sumers is immense," Williams said. "That's why the companies wrote this code of conduct." 
The codes are expected to be enforced by independent moni­tors hired by the companies and approved by the Apparel Industry Partnership -a coali­tion of labor, human rights and consumer groups, and several major apparel makers -which created the regulations. 
Fielding a question from the audience in the Center for Social Concerns, Williams agreed that while creating the codes is one step, giving the monitors the power to enforce the measures is a more difficult task. 
"The devil is in the details," he said. "If these codes are going to work, the monitors must have the power to publish their reports in the press. That's how you get the information to the consumers." 
government, called for reforms that targeted a more fundamen­tal level of corporate practices. Denouncing Nike's "greedy quest of excessive profits," Davis stressed the importance of local ownership, in which the busi­ness executives have a stake in how their decisions affect the local community. 
But the companies won't change, Davis said, until the con­sumers demand reforms. 
Neve Gordon, a graduate stu­dent, also advocated consumer intervention and responsibility, suggesting that Notre Dame stu­dents boycott the purchasing and even wearing of Nike appar­el until the company shows signs that it is changing its ways. 
"When you wear Nike clothing, you're basically a walking adver­tisement for Nike," Gordon told the audience. "Put it back in your closet and keep it there." 
Davis also suggested a letter­writing campaign to Nike's most famous pitchman, Michael Jordan. 
"It's his responsibility to say to Nike, 'No, I won't [endorse the company's shoes] unless you adopt fair labor practices," Davis said. 



'\ I //SPLASH 
Saint Mary's College Student Activities Board
-@;INTO SPRING I 

/ I J cordially invites you to experience 
Sand Art 
SMCnic BAIIDBLAS,.
LeMans Lobby 12:30 pm • 4:30 pm 
Li~rary Green 4:45 • 6 pm
Come mix your favorite color sand in Come listen to 3 bands! \. j
\ Burgers,ihot dogs, cotton candy, I \ I /containers of various shapes and sizes! 
' . . ··'' \ t
' JlP"prn, snow cones, and more! 
..c.f'Sieavze" ' @~· /
Canoe Races tJ ts available. ~~:. Tent on Library Green C'!!J 
Lak~ Marion-!· 5 pm ~ .,"/' ~' . 
"''7-8 pm ,_. .
-~·-·J .., ' 
#/ ·-.;wt~_ter" Tournament.~ /
Funny Business ~ ·. . / '\ 
··-Angela 8 • 9 pm .. J'
Library and L::eMans green 3 }· 7 pm '· "Chronic Itch" 
Getall tied up in knots a~d win a prize!
Challenge someone to a bungee run race, "' Hagga~ Te.rrace or gladiator joust, or feel free tot.i:y.yaur luck ''%., .· //' 8:30\:. 9:3,9pr!' . ./""" at the ve/cro wall and obstacle;cburse! Quiz Bowl ·{.(-;,) "'~ 
.$.~/."~:<::!:~· \::..,:v<,.,..«•>.., 

LeMans lobby 7 1~t,, 8·p """· "Sk~tkoriolics" Scavenger Hunt. '; ' Challenge your friends"ai11 professors to a game of Tent op i:.:i~ral"'y Green
1 

Start/end in LeMans lobby 4 • 5 pm "Trivial Pursuit!" ·· \ f 9:30 -·t 0:30 pm \ / / \Winhers get to keep the boards! , \ 1 x o ·.., -·, ,..-/ "'·....· Co~spons.ored by Student Academic 0.o. · 'I) Bont•re ' .• · '_.f___.•]


Roller\b!azing , ·· 1 {(7. . 
Ouuide Ang~(a 4 • 5 pm : ....., ,.,ryP'"' ("·(,,,.,"'·"' "'"· Soccer Field 9 • I 0 pm ~ · · Race Around campus for prizes! ~ .""'--. 1('·~·"· . ''\, Enjoy s'mores over an open (I~~! rr \_ .-. ~.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.--~. ~ ........ -.-.-.-.-.-a:·~.~ ....,;:;:.-.-.-.-.-.-.~.-J-. 
_;.;;· :.: .·' ~ ,.. 
Great prizes provided by Fitness USA, Fun'"Tan, JCoach's, BW-3, Fazoli's, Grains an~ Grinds, Spiece, Sunny Italy, and more! 

~-----~~ -~~-~--~----------------. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, April 15, 1997 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Acknowledging "sweatshop labor will not vanish overnight," President Clinton proposed a code of conduct Monday to help improve work­ing conditions in the apparel industry. 
Joined by a task force of human rights groups, unions, religious leaders and a few clothing manufacturers, Clinton urged companies to adhere to the voluntary stan­dards so children and adults won't have to work long hours for abysmally low pay. 
"We support the proposition that businesses are in business to make a profit," Clinton said. 
"But in our society ... we know that human rights and labor rights must be a part of the basic framework within which all businesses honorably compete.'' 
Some human rights groups say the code does not go far enough. 
"It calls for an end to child labor, prison labor and physi­cal abuse, but it does not set standards for work with digni­ty," said Elaine Bernard, direc­tor of Harvard's trade union program. The code, she said, is tantamount to giving "the good housekeeping seal of approval to a kinder, gentler sweat­shop." 
Clinton admitted that in order for the code to succeed, it must be embraced through­out the apparel industry. 
"We know sweatshop labor will not vanish overnight," Clinton said. 
"Our real measure of progress must be in the changed and improved lives and livelihoods of apparel workers. That is why we need more companies to join this crusade." 
Ilighlights of the code include a guaranteed minimum wage pegged to existing standards in individual nations, a maximum 60-hotir work week with at least one day off, and an inde­pendent monitor of conditions in overseas factories used by 
U.S. companies. 
It also would bar harassment and abuse in the workplace and prohibit using workers younger than 15. 
Gene Sperling, chairman of said. "Factories that pay better wages and ofier better condi­tions attract the best workers.» 

• Nike refuted charges that it allows the use ?fchildlabor. 
"Nike doesnottolerate under­age labor in any of its subcon­tracted factories. When Nike discovered underage labor involved in making our soccer balls in Pakistan, we immedi~ ately put a plan in place to end the system of outsourced stitch­ing," the company said. "There has been no evidence that child lahor is present in the footwear industry." 
Nike also agreed yesterday to a new set of codes of conduct proposed by President Clinton; 
which pays Vietnamese factory workers a mere 20 cents per hour. 
"If this task force is serious about eliminating sweatshops, it must eall on companies to pay a living wage, not just the minimum they can get away with," said Lora Jo Foo of San Francisco's Asia Law Caucus. 

SMC lamp and smoking forum to take place today 
Observer Staff Report The panel consists of student 
body president Jen Turbiak, 

Two issues on the agenda for student body president elect the Saint Mary's College Board Nikki Milos, and Gretchen Fink, of Trustees, who will be meet­a member of the housing com­ing this weekend, are the mittee who brought about the recent ban on halogen lamps as addition of the two non-smok­well as the addition of non­ing floors. Elections commis­smoking floors in the residence sioner Emily Miller will pose halls. questions to the panel and 
Tonight at 7 p.m. in Haggar audience members, and medi­
Parlor, the Student ate the discussion. Government Association (SGA} Miller has asked that stu­is sponsoring a panel discus­dents who cannot attend leave 
sion and open forum regarding their comments at the Haggar these issues. The purpose of front desk during this week. the forum is for student leaders to gain a general understand­TEACH EllmLISH in " ,!, ~ 


Hispanic Caribbean Study Program 
(Cuba, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico) 
Study in the Caribbean 
~ 

~ ~-t=J 
All courses offered in Spanish 


Spring 1998 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
April15 4:30PM 120 DeBartolo 
For further information, contact International Study Programs • 631-7435 or Professor Martin F. Mu 




Zahffi sponsors service week 
OnWednesday at 7 p.m., Father Hesburgh The last speaker of the week willbe D(lacon Ray .Turner from the Grace Turner, who is profiled in Langford's book, will appear on Thursday at 7 p.m. On Saturday, Zahm and Pasquerilla East will be working with There Are Children Here. Any student interested is il).vited 
Call Brandon Williams at 634­· 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Come celebrate the... 

)l
LaFortune Renovation Bash!!! 


_ FREE... Hotdogs Popcorn Lemonade & Chips


FREE... 

-."~-L1ve DJ, 
with an 80's tribute 
Thurs., April 17 Fieldhouse Mall, 4-6pm 
Rain date is April 18, 
Brought to you by Fieldhouse Mall Student Activities 
!''''''''~' l:tilts cdlie.:NiJI<.e stated that it 

not ate underage labor,Jtencourages programs tbatb~nefit \YOrker health, and 
ed factories are not underpaid. "\'\'9 ln~il)t tb.1,tt all9~ subcol}~
tracted factclries pay atleast the government-mandated mini­mum wage -::;,no exceptions, no oxemptions>The re~l.factis, many workers earn significantly more. With the addition of ben­efits such as free meals, trans~ portation, medical care, bonus· es, paid leave and housing, many workers earn almost dou· blet}le minimum," the company-
the president's National Economic Council, said the provisions are important because sweatshops employ many of the more than 80 mil­lion children working in "exploitative and hazardous situations." worldwide. 
"The agreement in itself does not end sweatshops, it is the actions that will take place from here," Sperling said. 
The code would allow partic­ipating companies, such as Nike Inc., Patagoinia, L.L. Bean and Liz Claiborne Inc., to use a "no sweatshops" label on their garments -which critics said would be unfairly extend­ed to companies like Nike, 
ing of the students' feelings on the issues, and convey those points to the board. No official decision will be made by the board regarding the new poli­cies. 
EA .., TER.V El'T?OPE 
1
-~U£ • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
HOw would you like to teach basir ConV_£1'Sational En~lish in Eastern 
:E.urll"e? Our matenals profile manv rewarding teachi!\g opportunities with great benefits. For IDfonnation, call: 
(206) 971-3680 Ext. K55845 
We .are .a ~•rch"' publllhln& co. 








VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 15, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager...........••.............Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager .........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ...•....................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maris College. It does nm necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edicorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sporrs Editor, Accem Editor, Saine Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notr~ Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
. Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Sainr Marv's 631-4 540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Prod~ction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 



• fiRST PRINCIPlES 
Casting the first stone: The Israeli settle01ents policy 
Imagine that someone took a sizeable amount of money from your bank account without your consent and built an apartment complex in your backyard without your consent. Then suppose that he went back to your bank account to get some more money to house ten­ants from a foreign country in those apartments and used your money to pay them cradle-to-grave welfare benefits. 

lrfan Khawaja 
Imagine that when you protested this injustice, you were either shot or imprisoned and tortured -and your friends, neighbors and relatives were 
arrested whether or not they were involved in any way. 
This sounds pretty outrageous, doesn't it? Almost like fiction? Unfortunately, in this case, truth is stranger then fiction: the above is an accurate description of the Israeli gov­ernment's settlements policy in East Jerusalem, which uses unconsenting tax revenues from Palestinians to finance the settlement of Jews­among the American Jews-in East Jerusalem. 
It would be all to easy to condemn the settlements policy by pinning the blame on the right-wing government of Benjamin Netanyahu, and clucking one's tongue in disapproval at the Likud party. Among those few American observers who disapprove of the Israeli policy, the standard line is that the whole settlements policy is Netanyahu's fault. If only Netanyahu would go away, we're told, and we could replace him with some nice Laborite dove, we could get peace in the Middle East, and we could realize the dream of a united . Jerusalem, home to "the world's three great faiths." And everyone would live happily ever after. 
As Mies van der Robe put it, simplicity is not so simple. The trouble with this standard interpretation is that it is both too harsh on Netanyahu and not nearly harsh enough on the fundamental prin­ciples that justify the settlements policy. The two principles are: (1) The belief that Judea-Christian principles can and should provide the underpinning of a constitutional republic; (2) The belief in the legitimacy of forcible redistribution by the state, and the corollary belief that strict property rights only benefit the rich. Principle one is a cherished belief of the American right; principle two is a cherished belief of the American left. That is why, so long as these beliefs are held by American intellectuals, we will never be able to see the root cause of the injustices of the Israeli government against the Palestinian population -or for that matter. the injustices of the Palestinian authorities against the people they (fraudulently) claim to represent. 
Consider belief one. It is an article of faith on the American right that the Judea-Christian tradition is the basis of the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights. As William Bennett puts the point, "Our values as a free people and the central values of the Judea­Christian tradition are flesh of the flesh and blood of the blood." The same basic belief is a staple of the polemics in con­servative magazines like First Things and Commentary; they are repeated ad nauseum even by conservatives who don't believe in the truth of revealed religion. Though this isn't the place to argue the point, I think this claim is fundamentally inaccurate; as Isaac Kramnick and Laurence Moore have argued, the "architects of our national government envisioned a godless Constitution and a godless politics" (The Godless Constitution: The Case Against Religious Correctness). And they were right to do so. 

It apparently has not occurred to the conservatives who hold this viewpoint that it is the explicitly theocratic basis of Zionist politics that explains the injustices done to Palestinians by the Israeli government. The justification for the settlements policy is quite liter­ally that Jews have title to East Jerusalem because, as we're told in the Book of Exodus, God gave it to them in perpetuity. Is there any way to recon­cile this manifestly atavistic claim with the First, Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the U.S. Constitution? No-which is why there is no legal equivalent, in Israeli law, of the First, Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, and no protection for Palestinians against encroachment on their religious liber­ties, their property or due process. 
Now consider belief two. The American left has spent considerable ideological effort trying to convince Americans that there is no such thing as unjust redistribution. It is considered heartless cruelty to point out the simi­larities between redistributive intellec­tuals, and politicians thrive on the ready association elicited by the juxta­position of the words "compassion" and "redistribution." 
At the high intellectual level, the polit­ical theorist John Rawls spends hun­dreds of pages of his book "A Theory of Justice" laboring to convince us that not only do we not have a natural right to property, but that we do not even have a right to our natural talents; they are, as he compassionately puts it, a "com­mon asset" to be forcibly "distributed" by the state. Donald Lazere, in his book "The Frozen Republic," tells us that its system of checks and balances does not allow the government to expropriate people's assets efficiently enough. 
My favorite, however, is the view of Mario Cuomo, the darling of the left. On being asked to justify his use of the power of eminent domain (the power to expropriate property without due com­pensation), Cuomo argued that expro­priation was the "price" that citizens must pay for living under his beneficent rule. The U.S. government's horrifying record on property rights is well docu­mented in James Bovard's "Lost Rights" and Bruce Yandle's "The 1990's Property Rights Rebellion." 
The left, then, is not exactly in a posi­tion to be condemning the Netanyahu government's action. It is easy enough to condemn Netanyahu the right-winger so long as you don't look too closely at what is wrong with what he's doing. When you do, however, you come to realize that he's not doing anything all that different from what all of his pre­decessors have done-and what all· redistributive welfare states do all the time. They take from the able and give to the needy, regardless of the rights of the former or the merits of the latter. After all, if need is the standard of property distribution -as the left keeps telling' us -then it is frequently the case that Jewish settlers are in greater need than rich Palestinian busi­nessmen. Why should rich Palestinians deserve the products of their labors while poor Jewish settlers from Russia and Eastern Europe go without hous­ing? Why should anyone care about the individualistic, property rights of a bunch of materialistic capitalist busi­nessmen in East Jerusalem and their patriarchal families? 
I hope I haven't been misunderstood: I regard Netanyahu as the worst species of political opportunist, and his policies a moral disgrace. But it is a little cheap to leave the matter there. If we look a little further, we might see that as bad as Netanyahu is, it may not be so easy for some of us to throw the first stone. So to speak. 
Irfan Khawaja is a doctoral student in philosophy. His column appears every other Tuesday . 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 




VIEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, Aprill5, 1997 
• AND IN THIS CORNER ••• 
Honoring Jackie Robinson and his long overdue dreain 
On Tuesday, April15, 1947, 50 years ago from today, for the first time in the 20th century a black man played baseball on the same field as a professional white team in the United States. By the end of his first month as a Brooklyn Dodger, Jack Roosevelt Robinson heard every racial slur and epithet imaginable; by the end of his second month, he was a nation­al hero. 

Matthew Apple 

The names of Jackie Robinson and Branch Rickey, the Dodger owner who defied a secret 15-1 owner vote against integration, are forever linked as the duo who broke the color barrier known as the "gentlemen's agreement" of America's national pastime. In a time when it was said that to know American culture you had to know baseball, Robinson's debut was hailed by anti-apartheid activists and decried by segregationists, both factions knowing the inestimable influence Jackie Robinson would have on American soci­ety. 
The insults and degradations Hobinson had to endure have become legendary. Every pitcher threw at his head, every runner attempted to slice his arms and legs. Teams threatened to boycott their games with the Dodgers rather than play against a black man. Hotels would not let him stay with his teammates; or if they did. he was not allowed to be seen in pub­lic areas or use the swimming pool. Death threats accompanied his games in St. Louis and Cincinnati. His own trainer refused to touch his sore muscles because of his skin color. And Jackie Robinson took it all in silence, for three years. 
In the separate and unequal societies of apartheid America, writers for the New York Age and the Pittsburgh Courier, influential newspapers of the black press, understood far better than the main­stream press what Robinson was going through. Wrote Edgar T. Rouzeau, "The hopes and anxieties of the Negro race were placed squarely on the shoulders of Jack Roosevelt Robinson, the first of his clan to land a place in organ~ed base­ball." 
Ludlow Werner added, "He will be haunted by the expectations of his race. To 15,000,000 Negroes he will symbolize not only their prowess in baseball, but their ability to rise to an opportunity. Unlike white players, he can never afford 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
an off-day or an off-night. His private life 
will be watched, too, because white 
America will judge the Negro race by 
everything he does." 

But although Robinson remained out­
wardly tolerant and calm, inside he 

seethed with fury and would not talk to 
even his wife about his withheld emo­
tions. The pacifist, turn-the-other-check 
exterior only thinly veiled the man who as 
a child had been in and out of jail as a 
gang member; the star athlete of UCLA 
who was arrogant, brash and sullenly 
angry; the Army lieutenant who refused 
to move to the back of a military bus and 
was court martialed by bigoted superiors; 
the infielder for the Negro League Kansas 
City Monarchs who, forbidden to use the 
"white" bathroom, once knocked a gas 
attendant senseless. 

He was the object of derision, scorn, 
abuse upon abuse of white players, 

umpires and fans as a representative of 
black America. He suffered through 

weeks of nauseous sleeplessness. His own 
teammates at first wrote up a petition 
saying they'd rather be traded than play 
with him, backing down and accepting 
him only because of the money he might 
bring in helping them to a pennant and 
World Series. He was utterly determined 
to represent all the dreams, hopes and 
fears of every player in the NBgro Leagues 
and every one of the millions of blacks liv­
ing in the United States. -In essence, 

Jackie Robinson became the scapegoat 
for an entire race of human beings. His 
roommate on the Monarchs, Gene 

Benson, would later say of Robinson, "lie 
went out and gave his life for black ath· 
letes." 

Although he was primarily known for his prowess as a baseball player, Jackie Robinson's life went far beyond the base­ball diamond. Once his three year vow of silence had ended, Robinson became the most vocal civil rights spokesperson in the country. In a time when riots and lynch­ings were commonplace, Robinson's voice joined the growing civil rights movement started by leaders such as Marcus Garvey and Congressman Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., of the Harlem Renaissance. llobinson was friends with Thurgood Marshall and Kenneth B. Clark, both instrumental in winning the landmark Brown v. Board of Education which in 1954 struck down "Jim Crow" laws. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., openly admitted that without Robinson the civil rights movement of the 1950s and '60s never would have been possible. . 
But increasingly throughout Robinson's ·Jater career he came to blows with man­
agement in baseball and in the work force 
over civil rights issues. He refused to 

remain silent about segregated housing in 
spring training camps and a series of 

church bombings in Miami that followed 
Brown v. Board. In the mid-1960s his anger at church bombings and racially motivated killings caused the press and former political allies to label him as rag­ing or out of control. As the Vietnam War escalated, suspecting ties to the "subver­sive threat" of civil rights organizations, the FBI continued keeping files on Robinson, Branch Hickey and the Dodgers, and in 1948 all but demanded llobinson denounce the outspoken black politician Paulllobeson as a communist. 
In his increasingly public social activi­ties, Jackie Hobinson ignored advice not to press the issues of fair play, human dignity and brotherhood. Though Robinson occasionally supported such diverse political figures as Hichard Nixon, Nelson llockefeller, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and Malcolm X, leaders didn't seem to realize that it was not a specific political cause but an essentially human cause which Robinson supported. Hegardless of financial hardship or popu­lar disapproval of his non-sports role in a rapidly integrating American society, Jackie Hobinson always chose to stand firmly by his principles. 
Yet Robinson was not the only black ballplayer who had to endure racial indig­nities, slurs and outright violence wherev­er he went in America. It is only recently that the Hall of Fame recognized the long­neglected stars of the Negro Leagues such as Cool Papa Bell, Buck O'Neill, the great Satchel Paige and, perhaps the greatest ballplayer of all time, Josh Gibson, who, when someone called him the Black Babe Huth, responded that Babe Huth was the White Josh Gibson. Many Negro League players alive today remember the hard­ships they had while barnstorming for a living, paying for gas at stations whose bathrooms they couldn't use, being forced to go around back to eat at restaurants, playing local ballplayers who wouldn't even shake their hands. While some such as Larry Doby, Hank Aaron and Satchel Paige eventually made it to white base­ball, hundreds of others never made it, dying in poverty and obscurity. 
Others followed in his wake, but Jackie Robinson always felt that he had been · chosen to break societal barriers wherev­er he saw them. Great players such as Joe DiMaggio, Ted Williams and Stan Musial were known for their athletic ability, but only Jackie Robinson was known for his tireless work both on and off the field; however, many of Hobinson's former admirers didn't appreciate his efforts. 
After the 1949 season, when Robinson no longer held himself bound to silence and began to respond to insults, an umpire told Jackie that he preferred the less aggressive '47 Hobinson. Jackie responded, ''I'm not concerned with your liking or disliking me. All I ask is that you respect me as a human being." Despite his status as folk hero, Jackie Hobinson simply could not rest on his laurels, know­ing that millions of people not blessed with his legendary athlete status were treated as second-class citizens every day of their lives. 
Who were you, Jackie Robinson? Were you the hero we still worship these 50 years later'? Were you the gang member with a vicious streak a mile wide? Were you the officer the army branded as a troublemaker? Or were you just a man who had had enough of injustice and was determined that no longer would you live in fear? Were you all these things, Jackie, or have you now become in our memories something even higher? 
Today barriers still exist, less OJ) paper in blatant words than buried deep in the subtle prejudice of the human heart. The Negro Baseball Leagues' World Wide Web site has this dedication: "This web site is dedicated to the generation of ballplayers who were denied the opportunity to play in the major leagues because of factors other than their ability to play the game of baseball." But the quote is not inclusive: in 1952, fearful of the success of the All­American Girls' Professional Baseball League, major league baseball in the {jnited States officially banned the signing of any female ballplayers. 
Since 1994, the Colorado Silver Bullets have been proving that women can play baseball just as well as any man; in 1995 Ila Borders became the first woman ever awarded a collegiate baseball scholar­ship, and she stated her goal was no less than to pitch in the majors. Half a century it took a Jackie Hobinson to teach America to see past a man's skin, the sad reflection of a society that needed a Jackie Hobinson to sacrifice himself for what we were ourselves afraid to do. It may be that, as we stand on the edge of a new century, someone will need to step forward and take up his legacy and his message -that love is color-blind, dignity universal, and soul an unrestricted free agent -someone that, like Jackie Robinson, will proudly say, "I am in this fight to stay." 
Unrelated note: This Thursday, at 7:30 
p.m. in 120 DeBartolo, at the Graduate Student Reading I will be reading my short story which appeared a few weeks ago in Scholastic Magazine, as well as singing a few bars in Irish. My colleagues Cynthia Vander Yen and Amy Wray will also be reading from their work in the master's of fine arts creative writing pro­gram. 
Matthew Apple is a graduate student in the English department. Contact him at mapple@skyenet.net or http://www.skyenet.net/-mapple, and be sure to watch ESPN's official Jackie Robinson tribute today at 6:30p.m. with President Clinton on hand to celebrate. 

Interrogations an affront to sibling visitors 
Dear Editor, 
On the evening of Thursday, April 3, I .drove with my girlfriend to the airport in order to pick up her younger sister who was staying for a few days. When approaching the campus on the return trip, I glanced in my rear-view and was able to see this sibling's eyes widen as she saw the Golden Dome in all of its glory sparkling boldly against the cloudless blue sky. She was in awe, thrilled to be at Notre Dame for what was guaranteed to be a fun­filled "Sophomore Sibs" weekend. 
I pulled up to the temporary east gate at 6:50 p.m. and lowered my window. In a cheery and polite voice I said to the guard, "Good evening, how are you, sir?" No reply­I continued, "May I please take this young woman and her wonderful sibling to Lewis Hall? We are coming from the airport." 
As you can probably tell, I was in a damn good mood, which resulted in a greater shock when the guard replied in a smug manner, "You know, it's a beautiful day to walk..." I kid you not when I say "smug." He was obviously not enjoying my presence there. Actually, at this point neither was I. "Yes, I know, but we have lug­gage, and it is fairly sizeable," I answered, still being nothing but polite. . 
The guard took a step closer. He looked at me. He looked at my girlfriend. He looked at her sister. He stared at the back floor. He stared at the front floor. I began to wonder if I resembled a drug smuggler or the like. He paused, removed his sunglasses, and said, ''I'll bet!" rather sharply. I glanced in my rear-view again, our guest was turning red, feeling like she was the cause of this interrogation. 
Was I the only one delivering a sibling from the air­port? (Should you be wondering, I found out later in the weekend the answer was defmitely "no.") I was stunned and I am sure it showed because he turned and tapped quickly on my trunk. He did not ask me to open it, just boldly smacked it twice. The sibling found this hurtful, I was annoyed, we were all on a tight schedule, and the Stepan Gestapo was giving me the third degree for some­thing that is very routine. Do alumni put up with this? 
. I released the lever and he inspected the contents of the trunk. Much to his chagrin he found only luggage. At this point he slammed my trunk closed and approached me again. After glaring at me for a good few seconds he said, "Make it quick!!! [Muttering] Damn quick..." llad I troubled him that much? Was this some kind of monu­mental favor to me or some great sacrifice to him? Does this make him some kink of martyr because he let me on campus? 
After arriving at Lewis, the sibling called her parents at home to let them know she arrived O.K. from the airport and that everything was fine. I sat by and listened as she briefed them on her trip. Right after saying "Hi Mom, Hi Dad!" she immediately began to tell them about the inci­dent with security. One would have thought that this travel-worn sibling would have began by talking about her various flights, the beautiful campus, all the people on the quads, or the nice people at Lewis. However, she recounted the episode in its entirety from her point of view and appeared rather disturbed by the whole affair. 
Later in the weekend she brought it up at a dinner table when surrounded by other siblings. Apparently one of them had a similar experience. Consider what the other visitors at the table must have thought. 
Over the past year I have had various encounters with security in which I was treated in a manner much ruder than that day. However, I was shocked that an officer would act in such a surly manner with a visitor present. Does a security officer not represent this great University as much as any student? Would the administration toler­ate it if a visiting sibling was harassed by a resident in one of the dorms? Certainly not! Yet our security force feels they have carte blanche to say whatever they like to whoever they like. 
On a weekend that also functions as a "sales pitch" to perspective students, is it a good idea to permit this sort of behavior from employees of the University? This sib­ling has now been given an impression, one that she will most likely never forget. 
It is too late to mend the situation now, but I urge the Office of Student Affairs to prevent this from happening in the future. Take the necessary actions to make sure those that represent the University of Notre Dame epito­mize the traditions and values we have been recognized for-it is a matter of the integrity. 
TIMOTHY J. MALIN Sophomore Keough Hall 

~----~--------------------~~--------~------------------------------­

;ACClSNT 
Tuesday, Aprill5, 1997 page 9 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Where There's No Smoke, There's Danger: 
Smokeless Tobacco 
• WEB SITE OF THE WEEK 
In Leagues of Their Own Across the Web 
By MATTHEW APPLE Special Web Site Correspondent 
F
ifty years after the integration of Major League baseball by Jackie Robinson, facts continue to come to light concerning "black baseball" and women's baseball leagues that existed at intervals throughout the 19th and 20th cen­turies. 
Several web site archives have appeared in the past two years con­cerning the Negro Baseball Leagues and their previously unrecognized innovations in\4; baseball, such as the introduction of shin guards, bat weights and night lights. 
Negro Baseball Leagues (http://www.blackbaseball.com ) is edited by the director of research at the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City and purports to have the largest archives of Negro Baseball League informa­tion in the country. A snazzy new site, still under construction. is A Brief Tour of the Negro Leagues (http://web.syr.edu/-adtodd/nlb/home.html) 
The Official Jackie Robinson web site, located at http://www.cmgww.com/baseball/jrobin/jrobin.html/, has all the info on this year's slew of Jackie Robinson tributes. Smaller Robinson tribute pages, such as http://www.sound.net/-vivian/jackie.html. abound throughout the Net. 
Baseball fans can also find a few pages devoted to women's baseball, pro­fessional and amateur, past and present. The Colorado Silver Bullets· site (http://www.lifetimetv.com/sports/SliverBullets/index.html ) has schedules of the Silver Bullets for the upcoming year and features a brief history of women in baseball. 
The All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, featured in the blockbuster movie A League of Their Own, has an official home page· at http://www/dlcwest.com/-smudge/index.htmll which features the history, stats. and rosters of AAGPBL teams such as the South Bend Blue Sox, Hockford Peaches, and Hacine Belles. The Women's National Adult Baseball Federation (http://www.wnaba.com/) is an amateur women's baseball league linking teams old and new across the country. 

As the campus defrosts and prepares for next week's AnTostal festivities, BandTostal events warm things up in antici­pation. Yesterday, the eclectic instrumental trio, Cod in Salsa, got things going at Fieldhouse Mall. The Wrens (above) and Commander Venus (below) followed for sparse yet enthusiastic crowds. Notre Dame's campus bands compete at NAZZ on Wednesday night, and Lounge Night will make audiences swoon with live swing tunes in the LaFortune Ballroom on Thursday. 

The Observer/Katy Soby 
ByLARRYWARD Medical Minute Correspondent 
I
n the spring of 1996, Brett Butler was once again in the papers. However, this time the news wasn't good. Butler, the former star outfielder of the Los Angeles Dodgers turned ESPN sports reporter. had been diagnosed with throat cancer. Butler had used smokeless tobacco, or chew as it is often referred to, during the early years of his outstanding baseball career. Butler only used the product for about three years. He had quit "dipping" about 15 years before being diagnosed with a malignant tumor known as squamous cell carcinoma. 
Doctors disagree as to whether or not Butler's use of smokeless tobacco is the direct cause of his can­cer. However, Butler's surgeon, Dr. Robert Gadlage, reported that "this is the type of cancer ... that does show up specifically with people who have nicotine exposure. The only other exposure he had was sec­ond-hand smoke. Both of his parents smoked. and he said he had second-hand smoke exposure as a child growing up." 
In addition, Dr. R. Thomas Glass, chairman and professor of oral and maxillofacial pathology at the University of Oklahoma College of Dentistry and College of Medicine, stated that, "You can't com­pletely rule out that Butler's three-year smokeless tobacco is the cause of his tumor. Even if his last dip was 15 years ago, he was still exposed to the can­cer-causing agents." 
Thus, Butler's tumor sparked a new controversy about an often ignored health problem: smokeless tobacco. 
Tobacco itself is a substance that is composed of the dried leaves and stems of the plant nicotinia tabacum, which contains the potent drug nicotine. This plant is native to North America and is grown throughout the world. Nicotine is a very powerful nerve stimulant and is extremely toxic. In fact, two or three drops of pure nicotine taken at once is enough to kill the average person. Accordingly. nico­tine has been classified as one the most powerful drugs in existence. Tobacco can be consumed via smoking, chewing or dipping, and snuffing. All three of the methods produce approximately equal levels of nicotine in the blood. 
Contrary to popular belief, smokeless tobacco is just as dangerous as cigarette smoke. Smokeless tobacco contains powerful chemicals, including nico­tine, nitrosamines, polycyclic aromatic hydrocar­bons, and dozens of other carcinogens. that can injure the sensitive tissues of the throat and mouth. 
Smokeless tobacco contains tobacco leaf and a variety of sweeteners, flavorings, and scents. A por­tion of such tobacco is either chewed or held in place in the cheek or between the lower lip and the gum. 
Use of smokeless tobacco in America is more fre­quent than you might think. In reality. 2.1 percent of all American adults use smokeless tobacco. In addi­tion, 4 percent of all men over the age of 18 use smokeless tobacco and a surprising .4 percent of all women over the age of 18 use smokeless tobacco. What is even more surprising is the use of smokeless tobacco among youth between the grades of nine and 12: Approximately 11.5 percent of such teenagers use smokeless tobacco on a regular basis. 
Users of smokeless tobacco may suffer several short term physical effects, among them an increase in heart rate and blood pressure, constricted blood vessels, and reduced physical performance and pro­dudivity. 
A host of dental health problems is also associated with smokeless tobacco. Tooth abrasion can occur when the grit and sand from the tobacco scratches against the teeth and wears away the hard surface or enamel. Premature loss of enamel can cause added sensitivity and may require corrective treat­ment. Constant irritation to the spot in the mouth where a small wad of chewing tobacco is placed can result in gum recession. Increased tooth decay, tooth discoloration and, most obviously, bad breath can also result from prolonged use of the product. More dangerous side effects of use of the product include nicotine dependence and unhealthy eating habits. 
However, the most serious and dangerous of smokeless tobacco's side effects is oral cancer. Chewing and dipping cause tobacco and its irritating juices to be left in contact with gums, cheeks, and lips for a prolonged period of time. This eventually can result in a condition called leukoplakia which manifests itself either as a smooth, white patch or as a leathery-looking wrinkled skin. It results in can­cer in 3 to 5 percent of all cases. Smokeless tobacco can also result in cancers of the pharynx, larynx, and esophagus. 
Warning signs of oral cancer include but are not limited to: a sore throat that does not heal, a lump or white patch in the mouth, and restricted move­ment of the tongue and jaw. 
Quitting the use of smokeless tobacco is easier said than done. However, to quit using smokeless tobacco you could follow these steps. 
First, be patient with yourself. You won't stop overnight! Reward yourself for each week or month that you stay off smokeless tobacco. Finding a sup­port group of family and friends is also crucial. In addition, avoid those times, places, and situations that make you want to use tobacco. Finally, plan alternatives to tobacco use for coping with stress. 
Larry Ward is a junior science pre-professional major originally from Johnstown, Pa. If you have any ideas for the last Medical Minute column of the year e-mail him suggestions at Lawrence.A. Ward.25@nd.edu. 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, Aprill5, 1997 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
Calloway, Williams lead Irish 

By KEVIN ROBINSON 
Sports Writer 
This past weekend, Notre Dame's men and women's track teams traveled to Miami University and earned notable finishes, placing third and first place, respectively in the Miami Invitational. 
On the women's side, the squad won seven of the 17 events. Their star performer was freshmen All-American Dominque Calloway, who takes top prize in three events. She ran the 100 meters in 11.48 and the 100-meter hurdles in 
13.45: both of which are in the NCAA provisional qualifying times. Her third win came in the 200 meters, finishing with a time of24.13. 
Other winners for the Irish include Alison Howard. who won the 400 meters, and Nadia Schmiedt, winning the 400­meter hurdles in 1:00.52. 
For the men, Errol Williams was a double winner, placing first in both the 200 meters and the 110-meter hurdles with times of 21.30 and 14.02, respectively.­
"My times have been coming down pretty steadily," com­mented Williams. "I didn't have any large gains, but my times came down again for me." 
About the team's perfor­mance, Williams said. 
"Everyone is really starting to pick it up. The part of the team that traveled did really well, especially the sprinters." 
When asked about the Big East Championship in two weeks, Williams stated, "The team has a really good shot. Lord willing. The team is defi­nitely capable but will need to key it up a little." 
Other winners include Chris Cochran's time of 47.82 in the 400 meters, and Jeff Hojnacki took the 1500 meters with a time of 3:49.44. 
The Irish also won a pair of field events with Chris Smith's throw of 193 feet, 1 inch in the javelin and Mike Fleisch's shot put of 57 feet. 8 1/4 inches. 
• SOFTBAll 
Road warriors back at home 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
For the Irish softball team this. season, there has been no place like home, except for the road. 
Notre Dame plays host to Northwestern today, marking just its fifth and sixth games at Ivy Field this season. Rain cancelled their home op~;Jner against Indiana on March 25, and the Irish host­ed Boston College and Providence in Big East doubleheaders on April 4 and 6, accounting for their only home games of 1997. 
The Big East conference South Division leaders have played 40 games thus far, with a mere four of them on their home soil. Notre Dame boasts a 22-18 overall record, but is a mediocre 2-2 at home. Do the Irish feel more at home when they're away from home? 
"We feel comfortable on the road, but it's always fun playing at home," said sophomore pitcher Angela Bessolo. "We don't have to worry about being tired from long hours of traveling, and fans and friends are able to come when we're at home." 
Bessolo has been the ace of late on an impres­sive staff. allowing a miniscule two earned runs in her last 19 2/3 innings of work, with 15 strike­outs. 
Although Bessolo, Joy Battersby, and Kelly Nichols have turned in noteworthy performances recently, Notre Dame's offense has been stealing all the headlines. In their weekend series against Villanova, the Irish scored 32 runs, pounding out 26 hits in the last two games alone. If the team stays on this torrid pace, the Wildcats of Northwestern will be in for a very long day. 
"Our focus (today) will be playing as a team and coming out strong from the beginning, as we have been," said Bessolo. "We came out very strong in the last four games, which gave us con­fidence on defense and offense. When we play with confidence, we have fun and we're not afraid to make mistakes." 
Senior Katie Marten leads the offensive charge against the Wildcats, riding a five game hitting streak in which she has pounded out eight hits for a .471 average, with a double and also a team-leading seventh triple. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Lost:  A  Dark  Gray  JCrew  Available  Bahamas cruise for two, at less  I really need grad tickets. Help!?!  Holly- 
NOTICES  Sportcoat at the WAKE. REWARD-John 271-3150  Professional Office Space 2 Room Suite. Ideal for CPA; Ins.;  than $398 actual cost (+expens­es). Call Noman @277-4269.  Diana 271-2947  Pick me up at the airport on the 26th of July. And I want to see  
Charley's Steakery at  LOST: Nikon earner-Last seen at  Attrny. Shared services avail; free parking for staff & clients. 288­ Living off-campus next year?  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$.  the Dodgers. -Fred  
University Park Mall  Campus View apartments.  3410  MAKE YOUR OWN BEER I  ETHAN 4-1659.  
Now hiring crew and manage­ Reward, if found call Mike  Fun, easy, cheap ($8/case).  
ment positions. Call299-1325 or 287-7286  at 243-9396.  College Pk Apt (Summer) 9357  243­ Buy my used equipment. Call Spak 1-4103. $40 obo  PERSONAL  Where have you gone, Jackie Robinson? Our nation turns its  
WANTED  Apt. for 11 wks. V. close to ND  89'  Dog.  Caravan.  V. Good  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  lonely eyes to you.  
Hey everybody! Ill  (May · Aug), $65 per Wk.  Call  Condition.$ 1690 o/bo. Call Jihad  
Tuesday, April15 from 9-11pm  SUMMER JOBS  Jihad 277-3254  277-3254  SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING  Mass in Memory of  
in the Lafortune Ballroom ...  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  MAJORS  Adam Kane  
A George & the Freeks  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  FOR 97-98-4 Bedrooms/3 sto­ Want the best job on campus?  Knott Hall Chapel  
Benefit Concert for Farley Hall's  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  ries-5 min to campus, block to  Spacious Oakhill condo! 2 bed­ Tuesday April 15  
Patti Kwiat Memorial Fund.  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Corby's & Sunny Italy-Huge  rooms,2  full  baths,loft,fire­ Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund  10:30 PM  
(Patti was a member of the Class  1-800-786-8373  parking lot & yard-$125/mo/per­ place;&71,000.Call  Roger  across from the Lafortune Info  All are welcome to attend  
of 1997 and a resident of Farley  son-233-9805  Hibbs,Cressy & Everett,272-8668.  Desk b/w 11:30-12:30 M-F  or  
Hall.)  CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­ call  Debbie at 1-6616 for ?'s  
So, stop on by with some friends  MENT -Discover how workers  ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FALL  Need Furniture? For Sale-Bed,  (Any qualified student please  
... drink some Coke ... eat some  can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on  SEM 97  to live with 5 guys who  Desk, Couches, Bookcase, etc.  apply)  Hildita-I know your heart's in  
pretzels ... listen to great music .  Cruise Ships or up to $5,000­ love alcohol-$180/mo, own BR,  Diana 271-2947  Texas,  but  give  Mauricio  a  
.. and most of all SUPPORT A  $7,000/summer in the Land Tour  nice  big  house  on  Sorin/St.  Family Needs Graduation  chance. Austin is at least 1,000  
GOOD CAUSE Ill  industry!  Call Cruise Information  Peter-will live w/dog-288-9102.  *FURNITURE· Futon $100 Chair  Tickets-Please Help!  miles away. Flowers and phone  
(A $3 donation is requested.)  Services:  800-276-5407  Ext.  $50 273·8673  Christian 273-696  calls are nice, but there's nothing  
C55846  Near Campus  like having a man right beside  
THE COPY SHOP  Homes for 97-98  ****************************  you. What a Texan doesn't know  
LaFortune Student Center  232-2595  Sharp cond  •••••••Tons of Furniture!  won't hurt him. After all, it's time  
Phone 631-COPY  NOTRE DAME DEBATE COACH  One owner  ...Really, Really Cheap  we paid them back for all they've  
Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  NEEDED YEAR.  1997-98  ACADEMIC  FOR SALE  '81 Olds Cutlas Only 60,000 miles· brand  Couches ... Chairs ...Dressers...  put us through. We deserve to be happy too. Love, Alika  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  MINIMUM BACHELORS DEGREE  new motor  Tables... Beds...Bookcases...  
Thur.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  CEDA/NDT  EXPERIENCE  HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER  Call 273-2241  Lamps...Kitchen Stuff...and  
Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  REQUIRED. ABILITY TO TEACH  Great nbrhd, near ND  some!  We can even deliver!  PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­ 
Sat.:  Noon -6:00 p.m.  COURSE IN DEBATE.  2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500  Sony Stereo ($100):  Call 287-4876  AGE. Collegiate Student Storage  
Sun.:  Noon -Midnight  FORWARD RESUME & COVER  288 7862  CD/2-tape deck/  ****************************  offers  On  Campus  and  Off  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  LEITER BY APRIL 19:  radio/speakers  *******  Campus Pick up and Delivery,  
P.O. BOX 89  FOR SALE: 85 HONDA Accord  CALL BEN X1718  Boxes,  Insurance, Tape  and  
NOTRE DAME, IN 46617  SEI, great condition, well main­ HEADACHE, BACK & NECK PAIN  Packing Materials Included. Call  
Discover your TALENTS in lead­ership, relationship, and spiritual­ity.  OR CALL 631-7753 W/OUES110NS  tained, extremely reliable, $2500 call George 289-9274  Bahamas cruise for two, at less than $398 actual cost (+expens­es). Call Noman @277-4269.  RELIEF CLINIC Kaurich Chiropractic 3511 Lincolnway West  Now to Reserve Your Space at 800 3 STORE 9 (800 378-6739).  
Find out on the web at:  I need somebody to ride with  Sharp cond  South Bend  
http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/h tml/voc1.html  me to Veisha next weekend!Call Connie at X1833.  One owner '81 Olds Cutlas  TICKETS  282-2828 "We Don't Feel Good Until You  BALLROOM DANCE TONIGHT IN STEPAN CENTER FROM  
Only 60,000 miles· brand  Feel Your Best"  6:00-8:00 PM.  ALL ARE WEL­ 
ILOST & FOUND I L-1_F_O_R_RE_N_T_  __.  new motor Call 273-2241  **************************** *******  ADOPTION  COME! $3 FOR NON-MEMBERS  
Need Graduation Tickets  Happily married couple promises  Family Needs Graduation  
Lost • Gold woman's watch ·  Near Campus  Sony Stereo ($100):  Desparately. Please help I  love, warmth & a secure future  Tickets-Please Help!  
Citizen's Elegance on Thur 4-3 on  Homes for 97-98  CD/2-tape deck/  Brian-287-4876  for your baby. Respect for you &  Christian 273-6967  
campus. Call 4-3745 Marti  232-2595  radio/speakers  Thank You  your decision. Expenses paid.  
Great personal value  CALL BEN X1718  ****************************  Joni & Shep 1-800-528-2344  
LOST: STRING OF PEARLS AND A CROSS ON CAMPUS BETWEEN HESBURGH LIBRARY  Staying in South Bend for the summer?? Sublet our College Park apartment! I CALL 284-4347 for details!  MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? NEED FURNITURE777 For Sale: 2 Full Size Couches, Nice Kitchen Chairs, Twin Beds,  ******* Do you have an extra GRADUA­TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well! I Please call Paige at X4011  I can't believe you let the sports department win. Doesn't news have any pride anymore?  My crazy spoon-I miss you and love you. -Sarah "Just get the bee AI Ill I"  
& BASILICA IN LATE MARCH. PLEASE CALL DELORES 1-5729 OR 234-7287 AFTER 6PM.  5 Bdrms. in private home. Near campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all facilities. 225/mo. 223-2794 Paul.  Dresser, Entertainment Center, Coffee table and end-tables. Call Kate at 288-9278 for more infor­mation.  I need 2 xtra graduation tix · willing to pay Please call Karen x4588  Aww, General Board looked so nice yesterday. But remember: Beware the chicken salad sand­wiches ....  Happy late b-day GeeI And then there were none.  
'  

-~-~--~~.',..._-~-----~----------~---­
' 

Tuesday, April 15, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page I 1 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Turn Back the Clock Night first 250 fans will receive a free mation, contact Daniel -The Notre Dame Baseball collector's edition Notre Dame Thornton in the Notre Dame Team is turning back the clock baseball cap. A free mountain Sports Promotions office at 1­on Wednesday, April 23 at 7 bike will be given away to one 8103. 
p.m. The Irish will be outfitted lucky fan. Climbing Wall Orientations in 1950s replica uniforms when Tony Rice, who quarter­are available at the climbing they host Northwestern at Eck backed the Irish Football team wall in the Rockne Memorial Stadium. Admission is just 50 to the 1988 National every Sunday at 1 p.m. and cents and hot dogs, popcorn Championship, will throw out Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up and drinks are $1 each. The the first pitch. For more infor-outside the wall. 

.. There iJ Juch cs thtnq 
CJ/ a free ride.~~ 
Announcing the AT&T 
"Ultimate Road Trip" sweepstakes. 
Going abroad this school year? AT&T would like to help pay your way. 
• 10 Grand Prize Winners ­Round-Trip Air Transportation 
from the U.S. to the country where you'll be studying. 
Plus thousands of chances to win high-quality currency converters (hey, you may find it more valuable 
than the air transportation) . 
To enter, call 

1 8oo 157-54-14-ext. 300 
Or you can enter on-line at 

http//www.dtt.com/Jtudent_dbrodd 
Do it today. 

No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. SWeepstakes ends 5/1/97. Open to residents of the U.S., 18 years or older, enrolled at a u.s. college or university during the •97-'98 school year and traveling internationally for 14 days or roore. See your Study Abroad Counselor or http://...,..,.,.,.att.can/student_abroad for official rules and details. 
C 1997 AT&T 
Casting and Angling Clinic -numerous substitutes to life­Clinic includes three sessions guard at the St. Joseph Lake which meet on April 15 and Beach this summer. Contact 17th from 6-7:15 p.m. Classes Greg at 1-5100 or come to are held in the Joyce Center, RecSports office at the Joyce Rolfs, and campus lakes. Center to fill out an application. Equipment is provided, but Bar Bell Club-A weightlift­participants are encouraged to ing club is coming next year for bring their own. The fee is $8 novice or serious lifters. Learn for the class and is open to stu­more about the art of lifting dents, staff and faculty. and developing a bigger and Advance registration with the stronger physique. Call Binh at RecSports office is required. 4-4364 for sign-ups and more 
Special Olympics info. Volunteers are needed to help AnTostal is holding-a run Special Olympic swimmers. around the lakes called Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic HostileTostal on Sunday, April Center on Mondays and 20. All participants will get a Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30 free t-shirt. There is no sign up 
p.m. for more info, call coach fee; participants just need to Dennis Stark at 1-5983. sign up at the run itself. It 
RecSports will be hiring two starts at 2 p.m. For more info. full-time, one part-time, and please call4-2272 or 1-7757. 
Ifyou're interested in.... 
Visual Basic, OLE, Active X, Visual C++, Custom Control Building, SQUODBC, M, QuakeC Client Server, or Web Programming 
... then we're interested in you. 
At Epic, we build some of the world's largest client server systems for healthcare. 
If you have a BS or better in Computer Science (or related field) with excellent grades, then send your resume to... 
Epic Systems 5301 Tokay Blvd. Madison, WI 53711 jobs@epicsys.com 
Epic has a no-smoking environment and is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
.. 
~'May The Resource .... Be With You! 
Cash when yolineed it at our Resource Center (ATM) in the Hesburgh Library basement. 
~source



-.sank® 
Memher FDIC . ~ . 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale 
& 
Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 




HAYDN/ HANDEL 
Excerpts from Concerto Grosso The Creation in D Minor, Op. 6, No. 10 
8:00 p.m. Wednesday, April 16 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public. 
-
~--­
I ~ 
Tuesday, April 15, 1997 
things will be similar in 1997 as the tight end will not just be
Tight end 
another offensive lineman. 
continued from page 16 
Teasdale will arrive on campus and provide more athletes at the position. 
"Holloway and Teasdale are two guys that are very capable and I think they'll be good additions," Colletta said. 
The 6 foot 4, 235-pound Holloway was named to the Reebok All-American team, as well as receiving an honorable mention on the USA Today All­American team. 
Teasdale played on both sides of the ball on his way to an honorable mention to the USA Today All-American team. 
After Chryplewicz worked his way into the passing game this past season, Colletta thinks 
"The tight end will show up in the passing game quite a bit," Colletta said. "It will not be a whole lot different. They may be running some different routes. They will play an important part in the offense, that's for sure." 
The coaches have seven more spring practices and the two Blue-Gold games to search for an answer to the questions that the tight end position pre­sents. 
Note: Rising junior fullback Jamie Spencer will miss the remainder of spring practice, including the two Blue & Gold contests, due to a neck injury that he sustained during an intrasquad scrimmage on Saturday. 
~hakcspcarc-in­
J'crformancc 
English 440 for the fall semester. 
*Open to all majors* 
Call 631-5069 or 232-001 7 or use the sign-up sheet at 205 Decio. 
Auditions required for Admission 
Unlimited Tanning 1week 




$lS ~Until 
Graduation (May 18) 
$40 

Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near K-Mart 
272-7653 256-9656 
-


-
a little too much skin for anyone's pleas­
performance.
ing," Fannon quipped, referring to the 
"We are proud to finish four years of
frequent moonings onlookers were sub­
basketball without having scored enough 
jected to. 
points to win one game," said Mages. 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
It's amazing how weather can dic­tate one's mood, even when it comes to basketball. 
As the temperature heated up a little. bit and the sun decided to make an appearance, the competition in Bookstore Basketball XXVI also seemed to heighten. 
Even though we have yet to see an upset of a seeded team, the nicer weather brought about a better level of basketball, leaving the seeded teams at least a little concerned about the potential of an upset. While the results of yesterday's game remained much of the same as what we have seen thus far, the attitudes are chang­ing. 
"We feel good about the way we played and are happy to get the first game over with," Chris Salata of No. 10 BW3's Bolivian Yaks sai.d. The Yaks beat Five Men and a Grady, 21­
10. "We don't want to look past any­one, though, because that's how the top seeds can sometimes get beat." 
In addition to attitude, a major factor in advancing can often be the team's rhythm. If a team has not adjusted to playing together, it will often reflect in its play. 
Salata cited the advantage of having played together as a time as a major factor in the victory. 
"We've been fortunate to have played together numerous times and have been able to scrimmage against some of the higher ranked teams," he said. 
However, what works for some teams can work against others. Adaptability remains the major point upon which No. 23 Hood River Bandits hopes to improve. Although the Bandits knocked out Run n' Gun 21­12, team captain Chris Wachtel is still concerned about getting into a team rhythm. 
"We haven't played very often together, and it provided a good chance for us to get used to playing together," Wachtel said of yesterday's win. "They provided good competition for us -they were a good shooting team -but we were able to play solid and get the win. 
"Hopefully, after another couple of games, we'll be able to get in a groove and keep playing well," he continued. 
That chance will come as first round play wraps up, and the second round begins later this week and into the weekend. 
Teams to watch for Tuesday, April 15: 
No. 3 Malicious Prosecution at 7 p.m. Stepan 
No. 11 Downtown Assasins at 4 p.m. Stepan 


----~--~....--------~------------~---------~-~~ 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, Aprill5, 1997 
bats like they're capable of." 
• WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame cruises to
-Rutgers 
Purdue tomorrow before play­continued from page 16 ing host to Bowling Green,
Squad drops final 1997 contest 
Indiana Tech and Villanova in 
By FRED CHIU their experience by scoring six of the last eight Sports Writer goals in the contest. "We played to our potential and did our best. 
Although ending their season on a sour note We lost to a better team," said attacker with a loss to St. Joseph's, 21-10, the Notre Stephanie Fox. Dame's women's lacrosse team accomplished Both Irish goalies tried to contain the Hawks' one of their main goals set at the beginning sea­offense but were without success. Goalies Beth son to have a winning record. Murray and Catherine Simmons both had seven 
This game was especially sentimental for many saves each. However, the valiant efforts of both of the senior members as they played for the goalies were not enough to pull the Irish Fighting Irish for the last time. The morale of through. the team heading into the game hit a low as "Coming off the field, we felt in a lot of ways, 
-senior captain Tara Pierce sprained her ankle the team came together despite the score," said five minutes before game time. attacker Kerry Callahan. "We had good opportu­
The Hawks' Shannon Feite drew blood first as nities but couldn't convert. We played in spurts she had a field day, scoring a career-high and and that became our downfall." school-record 10 goals, matching the whole Irish Taking these last three consecutive loses, the team's scoring. After Mara Grace scored three team will use this experience as the stepping minutes into the first half giving the Irish a 3-2 stone for next year. lead, the Hawks barraged the Irish for the rest of "When the season began, even the coach could the game. St. Joseph outscored the Irish 7-2 to not explain the level of play and the opponents at take a 9-5 lead at intermission. that caliber will be like. Most of all, the game 
The second half was not any better for the experience is what we will take to the next sea­Irish. The Hawj(s scored the first eight goals, son," said midfielder Kerry Audley. holding an imperious 15-5 lead with 20:52 left to Now, the team will have its first recruiting play. The Irish had a spurt of three goals and class and have the crucial experience needed to pulled to within 15-8, but the Hawks showed take their play to the next level. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
MEET YOUR NEW RESEARCH ASSISTANT: 



''FirstSearch'' 
On Trial until Apri/30, 1997 
The University Libraries of Notre Dame invite you to search our newest online reference database, FirstSearch. 
FirstSearch is a collection of over 60 databases covering a wide range of academic disciplines. For example, with FirstSearch if your area is the sciences, BIOSJS, GenSci Abstracts, MEDLINE, GeoRef, GEOBASE, and EnvironmentS are just a few of the indexes that can assist you with your research. Search business and economic literature by using the EconLit Database or the ABIIINFORM, a major index for articles related to business. Dissertation Abstracts, FactSearch, a database to current statistics on a variety of topics, and databases in the areas ofthe arts and humanities are readily available. FirstSearch also gives you immediate access to the holdings of20,000 libraries worldwide via WorldCat. In addition, newspaper articles, general periodicals and some full-text materials can be accessed via FirstSearch. 
After trying FirstSearch, the Libraries would appreciate your comments in two areas: the coverage and content ofthe indexes and the access software and its features. Also, after the trial period the University Libraries may choose to subscribe to one or more of the 60 databases. FirstSearcb and an e-mail link to enter your comments can be reached through the Libraries' homepage. 
The URL is: 

httl'://www .nd.ed u/-ndlibs/iac.htm 
inning. 
Notre Dame's balanced assault included eight starters combining for 16 hits. Jeff Wagner-only a sophomore­once again led the charge, going 3-for-5 and extending his hitting streak to 15 games. 
"It's exciting to see the team rebound as they have, and it's a result of a number of things," said Mainieri. "First and fore­most, the team is swinging the the following days. The Boilermakers finished 22-32-1 last year and should be another non-conference warm-up for the Irish, who are beginning to zero in on the next two week­ends against Villanova, West Virginia (11-1 in the Big East) and Pittsburgh. 
"We've slowly come back," said Shilliday. "Once you get some momentum. it can quick­ly pile up." 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland in 


Ro&inr 
Hooa 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE 
For information, 
call219/284-4626 
~c:, 

~~ ~~m~~~~ ®l!lfrY 
Tues. April 22 7:00pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Join the dating pool!* 
by signing up at LaFortune Information Desk. 
Free gift certificates to 
Olive Garden, Pasta House, Brewing Company 
& more. 
Sponsored by sub 
*Limited to I st I 00 males and I sr I 00 females. 


page 15 
Tuesday, April15, 1997 The Observer • TODAY 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT  
CATBERT: EVlL 1·\.\t DIRECTOR  WE  PA'r'  THE  PREMIUI'\S  
THE COMPAN'r' HA~ TAKEN OUT A LIFE INSURANCE POLlC'r' ON '<0U1 WALL'r'.  AND WE COLLECT THE INSURANCE WHEN '<OU DIE. 15 T\-\15 BECAUSE  
I'l"\ SO VALUABLE  
TO il-\E. COMI'AN'r'?  

T 
.-------1"' 


30 Cross out 
31 Glazier's items 
35 Back-to-school time: Abbr. 37 Building support 38 Egyptian threats 40Romeo 
42 Maine's is rocky
45 Tee-hee 47 Psychiatrist Berne 50 Bearded creature 52 "Holy--!" 

~~~ 
~7 -o-·· . .
•v•s•on w·1nners 
Men's Undergraduate Men's Graduate 
Menis Fac/Staff Women's Undergraduate Women's Graduate Women's Fac/Staff 

Thanks to all those who participated, RecSports and Food Services were able to raise $1.1 03.00 for Christmas in April!!! 
. 
~ 
~ ~ 
c 

53 Russian-born 60 Neighbor of violinist Kan. Schneider, &1 Nondairy informally spread 
54 These, in Madrid &2 Bit of thunder 55 Rascal &3 Dolls since 59 "Twittering 
1961 Machine" artist &5Cato's151 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Heloise, Claudia C~inale, Roy Clark, Leonardo da Vinci 
DEAR EUGENIA: I'm having a hard time with my job. Will it get bet­ter or should I think about looking for something else' Also, I'm getting married on july 26, 1997 io a Sagittar­ius. He was born on Dec. 2, 1965 in England. Will it last' Pisces and Saggi's are not the best match, but I have always been with either Cancers or Scorpios and never it seemed to work out. I have a hard time getting him to talk. Could this cause us prob­lems? 
Looking for Insight 
MIKE PETERS 
DEAR LOOKING FOR INSIGfiT: It's best to make a job change late next year, not right now. I can see your frustration in the work place, but that won't change even if you do change jobs. It is best to concentrate on what you really want to do. Pick up added skills or explore other avenues of interest that may lead you in a different direcl~on profe_s­sionally. As for your relationships m the past, I doubt that any of the Scor­pios or Cancers in your life we~e true to their sign. As for your Sagtt­tarius, you match up very well phys­ically. However, when it comes to your mental connection, I really can't see how this will change or gel better regardless of how long you live together. I must also add th~t this appears to be more of a karmic connection. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): If you've taken on too much, you can expect problems with your mate. You have probably taken someone you
1T'5 t;ECAUSE 
love for granted. 

WE THINK 'r'OU'LL 
Born Today: You will be your own worst enemy this year it you aren't pre­pared to admit that you make mist~kes. Step back and take a lt>ng hard look at
t;E 1"\0R.E 

your past decisions. You can turn things around If you really w,mt to. 
VALUABLE O£AO. 

SK  10K  
Michael Campbell  18:23  Peter O'Donnell  34:49  
Alex Macleod  17:01  Dennis Potter  33:51  
David Barstis  18:26  Joseph Tama  38:27  
Amanda Crosby  19:41  Lauren Destino  45:33  
Crystal Garrett  18:28  Patsy Barnes  58:51  
Stephanie Bastek  22:05  Margaret Jarc  49:02  

TAURUS (April 21·May 21): You can spend "' passionate day with someone you love. Make your plans early and refuse· to let other pt~>pk-in· terfere. 
GEMINI (May 22-)une 21): Don't let family and friends put unrealistic demands on you today. You need to get out on your own and partake m hobbies. 
CANCER (june 22-july 22): You don't need additional pt'Ople on your domestic scene. If company drops by, make up an excuse to retire early. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23): You may have a problem getting others to pitch in and help. Take a senous look at your career position. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Get re­clusive friends out and involved in groups you belong to. You can expect them to be nervous and hesitant at first. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Tempers may flare up if you decide to work tcr day. Your partner is really tired of be­ing neglected. 
SCORPIO (Oct 24-Nov. 22): Travel 
will be in ord~r. You may find that a 
promotion will lead to a change of 
residence. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): Take care of the hidden matters that were plaguing you in the past. Tie up loose ends. 
CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): 
Talk to those who can make a differ­
ence. You're riding high and you can 
taste victory. Don't neglect your lover. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): Con­
sider picking up a pet as a companion. 
You should shuffle through some pa­
pers to ease your workload. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Plan 
to spend time with friends and family. 
You may have been in the doghouse, 
but today is a new day. 
-
.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Let's go'" 5 Miss Cinders ol old comics 9 Stravmsky's "Le --du prmtemps" 14II's pulled on a 
pulley 15 Music for two 16 Farm units 17 Once more 18 Schooner part 19 Signified 20Hit NBC 
comedy 23 Passing grade 24 Director 
Howard 25 X's in bowling 27 It's behind 
home plate 32 Sugar source 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
33 .. ---American Cousin" (1 859 comedy) 
34 Results of big hits? 36 "Gandhi" 
setting 39 Shiite, e.g. 41 1997 has two 
43 Brothers and 
sisters 44 Flattens 46 Plains home 
48 Tam-o'-shanter 49 Yin's 
counterpart · 51 Not the subs 53 Liberace wore 
them 56 A.F.L.'s partner 57 Tempe sch. 58 Novelty 
timepiece 64 Cinnamon unit 66 ----Seltzer 


67 First name m super­mode/dam 
68 Actress Berry 69 Alice doesn't work here anymore 10Campus 
authority 71 Buzzing 72 Organic fuel 73 Klutz's 
utterance 
DOWN 
1 Pack in 2"--Lisa" 3 Like a William 
Satire piece 4 Alternative to 
J.F.K. and La Guardia s Oilers' home &Molokai meal 
7 For fear that 8 Esqs. 9 Belushi 
character on "S.N.L." 10 Expert 
--+-+-:-t 11 Bartender's 
supply 12 "Walk Away
-"(1966 hit) 13 --Park, Colo. 21 Pear type 22 Like some stocks, for short 26 Lodges 27 Part of an old English Christmas feast 28 Atmosphere 29 Hodgepodge 
,k 

-
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, April15, 1997 
• BASEBAll 
Irish take series from Rutgers with 6-5 victory 
ND enjoys first taste offirst place in division 
ByT. RYAN KENNEDY Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame defeated Rutgers 6-5 yesterday, sliding past the Knights into first place of the Big East's National Division. 
Since skidding into doldrums of the baseball world just over 
---
two weeks ago with a 9-11 overall mark, Notre Dame has pulverized opponents to win 14 of of its last 16 games, includ­ing two games in as many days against Rutgers. Yesterday, Notre Dame (23­13, 7-4 Big East) completed its march to the conference crest in a slugfest that should have been over in three or four innings. Instead, the Irish left 11 runners on base in the first four innings, cradling a precar­ious 4-1 lead into the fifth. The Irish opened the game with textbook baseball: Randall Brooks (2-for-5, 2 RBI) drew a one-out walk, stole second and scored on a Mike Amrhein sin­gle over the head of the first baseman. Next, Brant Ust sin­gled with two outs and Allen Greene drew a walk, but Jeff Felker was caught looking with the bases loaded. The opportunities kept com­ing, but the Irish could not 
hammer the nail in the Knights' coffin. In the third, Ust homered to center (sev­enth). then Felker and Todd Frye hit one-out singles. Senior third baseman J .J. Brock and Pat O'Keefe both grounded out to end the momentous rally. 
"That was frustrating today," head coach Paul Mainieri noted. "We should have been up 10-0 early, but we let them back in the game. We were fortunate ,because it usually comes back to bite you." 
Indeed, the Knights bit the Irish in the rear soon enough. A solo shot in the fifth and a two-run homer to center an inning later tied the game at five apiece. 
However, Alex Shilliday, who surrendered three round-trip­pers, was brilliant, giving up only five hits. Batter-zapper Larry Mohs stepped in to close out the ninth. 
"It was a combination of things," said Shilliday of the home runs. "Their mound was. not ideal -it was real low, so we had to keep the ball low. Also the wind was blowing out." 
Said Mainieri, "If you throw strikes, you're going to give up home runs once in a while." 
With the game deadlocked at five, Brooks, who has been nothing short of a hero as of late, banged in the winning run with two outs in the ninth 
see RUTGERS I page 14 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Senior centerfielder Randall Brooks has combined with sophomore Jeff Wagner to ignite the Irish offense in recent weeks. Brooks was 2-5 with two RBI in yesterday's contest. 
..... 
.,. 
• FOOTBAll 
Youth to see action at tight end 
Cerasani, O'Leary among competitors for position 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sporrs Editor 
With the graduation of both Pete Chryplewicz, whose 27 receptions last year was the most by an Irish tight end in 12 years, and his back-up, special teams guru Kevin Carretta, there is a question on the minds of fans and coaches. 
Who are the Irish tight ends? 

There is no better time to answer that question than during spring football. Rising junior John Cerasani and rising sophomore Dan O'Leary are fighting for the starting position. They both have limited game day experience. 
"They'll get the opportunity to play," offensive coordinator Jim Colletta said. "There's no guy that's first or second and that's a plus for those guys because they get to compete and they're at an equal level right now." 
The 6-4, 258-pound Cerasani was named to prep All-American squads in his senior year of high school and yvas the fourth-ranked tight end in the country. Cerasani worked out at tight end and defensive line in the course of his freshman 
Spring Football 1997 The Observer will be profiling a different aspect of the Notre Dame football team each day this week. 
year and played behind Chryplewicz and Carretta in his sophomore campaign. 
O'Leary also received All-American accolades including being rated as one of the top 50 players in the nation his senior year. Also in the mix in the depth chart this spring are Mike Gandy, and walk-ons Mike Denvir and Justin Orr. 
"They're all pretty good players but our biggest concern is none have played very much," Colletto said. 
"I think that right now it's a great time for an inexperienced tight end to step in," O'Leary said. 
The coaches hope that the veteran character of the offensive line can make up for the lack of game experience at the tight end position. 
"The offensive line is really experienced and . we're working with some very experienced play­ers so that will help us a lot," O'Leary said. 
The lack of experience makes the spring prac­tices all the more crucial for O'Leary, Cerasani and company. 
"We have to put a lot of time, effort, and ener­gy into it during the spring and hopefully over the summer we'll give them some things to work on," Colletto said. "The early part of fall a lot of attention will be spent on them." 
When fall comes, Jabari Holloway and John 
see TIGHT END I page 12 
_0 MondayJl TuesdayD Wednesday 0 ThursdayD Friday 

&"Running Backs 8, Tight Ends a., Quarterbacks 
e"'coact~es 
&. Ron Powlus 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 
Corby's advances in comical fashion 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Senior Sports Writer 
As expected, top-seeded Corby's rolled to a win in their first game of the Bookstore Tournament, defeating Four Well-Hung Horsemen 21-4. 
The highlight of the game was not the play of Corby's, but the outlandish attire and behavior of their opponents, who were dressed like the Scottish characters from the movie Braveheart. The "Horsemen," comprised of Zahm Hall residents, wore kilts and painted their faces for the game. 
They also made it clear to the crowd of a few hundred that they were not wearing any underwear under their kilts, exposing themselves to Corby's team members and the crowd several times. 
Additionally, the team was supported by a raucous crowd who cheered loudly each time a Horsemen member would shoot. 
Horsemen players, aside from shouting lines from Braveheart and jumping on 
the backs of Corby's team members, enjoyed the oppor­tunity to take on a number one seed, even if the outcome was predictable. 
"We all came together like the battle of Falkirk," joked Horseman Mike Tobin. "We crowded together like young Scotsmen. We were fighting against odds that were well against us. We beat them morally. We had crowd sup­port." 
Corby's, powered by 1996 tournament MVP Dan Fannon, all-bookstore players Jeff Kloska and Bob Baxter, and football players Kevin Carretta and Tim Ridder, did not even need to break a sweat to win the game. 
Corby's players seemed to enjoy the comedy show as much as the Horsemen. 
"Those guys were book­store,"· said Carretta. "Friends, roommates, or just a group of guys coming together and enjoying the game and entertaining the crowd." 
"It was fun getting to play in 
see CORBY'S I page 13 
&. 
vs. Northwestern
vs. Michigan, 

vy Q)
.,..:: Wednesday, 3:30p.m. • Women's lacrosse loses finale 
Today, 3:45p.m.

rtf 
'C
Men's vs. Air Force see page 14
vs. Hawaii, 

Thursday, 3 p.m. 
Today, 3:30p.m.

Yf 
? ••CIJ •Softball team returns home 
Softball
o/ 
at Purdue, 
see page 10
at Goshen College 
•.. Today, 4 p.m . 
~ 
Wednesday, 3 p.m. 
~ 










