-~~-----­

On-campus life: Is the price right? 
ND rooms have the same price tag, even ifthey're worlds apart 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Some dorm residents sweat uncomfortably during the warm weeks of school while others enjoy the comfort of air­conditioning. 
Some have to trek across campus to do their laundry while others simply walk to their dorms' facilities. Some have meetings in huge social areas, others in dark, dingy basements. 
But all pay nearly the same 
Thursday, September 4, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No.9 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY' 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Police: Three men abducted ND freshman 
By HEATHER COCKS News Editor 
A Notre Dame student was abducted Tuesday night when three men allegedly forced her into a car near Hesburgh Library, according to Notre Dame Security/Police. 
The female student, a freshman, was walking along St. Joseph Drive at approx­imately 9 p.m. The street runs toward Douglas Road from Decio Hall, passing the library and North Dining Hall. 
She told police that a male voice called her name from a nearby vehicle. As she approached, one occupant got out and pulled her inside the car, according to director of Security Rex Rakow. 
"We don't know what went on while she was inside the car," he said. "We're in the process of interviewing her fur­ther." 
A short time later, the occupants released the student on the south side of campus. Rakow said police have not established the length of time she was held in the car. 
Police are searching for three suspects 
~;~'.·-./ 
eStudent was walking along St. ~v· Joseph Drive when she was allegedly if forced into the vehicle • 
fees for room and board: $2,480 to $2,530 per semester. 
"The only changeable part of the rate has to do with the local telephone charges," said Jennifer Gooley, undergradu­ate housing clerk. "The fees are different if there are one, two or four people in the room who will use the phone." 
Aside from that minimal fluctuation, all on-campus stu­dents are billed the same amount, but receive different 
see DORMS/ page 4 
T
he cost of 
'room and 
board' at Notre Dame is the same for each stu­dent, regardless of the different ameni­ties present in each dorm. Pictured Below: The flat rate buys many Morrissey res­idents the right to a small room that can fit a couch -at the expense of floor space. Pictured Left: Some Farley Hall resi­dents have enough space to create a mini-living room. 
• STUDENT SENATE 
} 
Senate focuses on old business, duties 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senate opened the fall semester slowly by review­ing duties, procedures and old business in last night's meet­
ing. 
"We've got an ambi­tious group of people," senate chairman Erek Nass said after 

the meeting. Nass "It's good that these details come up now." 
A con!1ict of interest discus­sion followed opening reports, and senate members turned their attention to a constitu­tionality issue left over from last spring. Lee Hambright currently serves as Hall Presidents' Council treasurer and student government assis­tant controller, and the senate ethics committee has decided that holding those two posi­tions represents a conflict of interests. 
However, neither Hambright nor student government lead­ers anticipate any problems. 
"Right now Lee is our assis­tant controller and he's going to be our controller until you guys tell us he can't be," stu­dent body president Matt Griffin told the senate. 
The issue is clouded by uncertainty of whether the senate should have voted to confirm Hambright last spring. 
"The first thing we need to do is decide who is going to interpret the constitution and decide what it means. This probably won't be an isolated incident," Alumni senator Bob Chapski said. 
Also, senate members exten­sively discussed whether they would sign a petition circulat­ing which would call on the University to reconsider its "Spirit of Inclusion" decision not to include sexual orienta­tion in Notre Dame's non-di5f, crimination clause. · 
Most members declined to sign because they felt the wording, composed by the College Democrats, was mis­leading. 
• TECHNOLOGY BEAT 
Grant guarantees fast networks 
ND Internet will 
become more efficient in future 
By LAURA PETELLE News Writer 
The National Science Foundation (NSF) recently awarded Notre Dame a $350,000 grant for the further development of the University's Internet capabilities. 
The grants were awarded to 35 major research universities, including Notre Dame, to con­nect to the NSF's Very High Performance Backbone Network Service (vBNS) and brings the country another small step clo·ser to Internet2, a newer, higher-speed version of the Internet. 
While Notre Dame's Internet services have not been up to par up to this point, according to Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost for Information Technologies, this grant will allow Notre Dame to leapfrog ahead of the curve and become a leader in Internet services. 
"We'll be one of the front-running institutions," Rapagnani said. 
The new Notre Dame Internet connection: NO's new DS-3 cable willtransmit44.5 Mbps. 
38.5 Mbps will be dedicated to ND research efforts and 6 Mbps to the "commodity" Internet, or the Internet services used by the average consumer. 
The grant will allow Notre Dame to connect to its Chicago server with a DS-3 cable, which tranfers data at a speed of 44.5 megabits per second (Mbps), compared to the cur­rent four Tls which each transmit 1.544 Mbps. The DS­3 cable will be partitioned, keeping six Mbps for the stu­dents, about the same capacity as is currently in use, and using the other 38.5 Mbps for 
the six research teams that helped Notre Dame get the grant. 
Keeping the current six Mbps for students will still allow stu­dents to see a jump in transmit speed, because the research projects, which transmit huge amounts of data, will no longer be on the same bandwidth. The partition can be moved as demand requires. 
see INTERNETI page 4 

~~------~­
t . 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Anything you 
\\'ant to kno\V 
I don't mind talking about myself. I'm an honest, easygoing per­son, and I'll tell you any­thing you want to know. 
However, I resent the medium into which I have lately been forced to describe myself: one side of an 8 1/2 by 11 piece of paper. 
Some call it a resume. I call it a farce. 

I probably should have commenced work 
on this document long before the fall of my 
senior year in college. I should have known 
better than to procrastinate on the one item 
that will magically bring me a fulfilling and 
successful career. 
I understand the purpose of a resume; it 
will give my prospective employers a general 
idea of my previous work experience, my 
skills, my education level. 
That is, if I'm honest. Every human being 
knows how to use multi-syllabic language to 
turn a simple phrase or experience into a 
concept of earth-shattering proportions. A 
summer of life-guarding could be described, 
for a biology major, as field research on the 
effects of solar propensity on complex cell 
forms. Or, for a business major, life-guarding 
might be summed up as an internship in col­
laborative human management. 
The more b.s., the more qualified I sound. 
Luckily, I have perfected the use of b.s. into 
an art. 
Regardless of my b.s. talents, I do not like 
the idea of cramming 21 years of living onto 
one piece of paper under a multitude of cate­
gories that, ultimately, do not tell you any­
thing about WHO I AM. 
I realize that there are a number of things 
that do not need to appear on my resume. My 
prospective employers do not need to hear 
about my love of skinny-dipping, my broth­
er's 17th birthday at Bridget's, or my near­
suspension from school in the seventh grade. 
It isn't an autobiography. 
But there are things about me that I would 
like them to know, aspects of my personality 
that somehow do not fit under the heading of 
"hobbies." 
Anyone can declare reading as a hobby or 
interest. I want my employers to know that I 
LOVE to read... novels and newspapers. Not 
those trashy women's magazines or comic 
books. 
I want my employers to know that I love 
exotic food and am willing to try anything. I 
want them to know that I am happiest when 
I'm busy or on a road trip to anywhere, that 
my family is the most important priority in 
my life, and that I will spend most of my dis­
posable income on professional back mas­
sages and camping gear. 
I want them to know that mowing the lawn 
is my favorite household chore and that I 
consider makeup to be a curse. I want them 
to understand that a work week of less than 
60 hours will be the most refreshing thing to 
happen to me since I began college. 
I want them to know me. For as well as I 
can play with words and glamorize my expe­
riences, I'd rather not. I'm an honest person. 
I'll tell you anything you want to know. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  John King  
Laura Perelle  Production  
Sports  Heather Cocks  
Joe Cavaro  Heather MacKenzie  
Par Maloblocki  Laura Perelle  
Viewpoint  Kathleen Lopez  
Kelly Brooks  Lab Tech  
Accent  "Photo" Joe Stark  
Joey Crawford  
Monday_./~ 77 57 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Allison Koenig 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Diana's funeral procession route extended for mourners 
LONDON Princess Diana's funeral 
• The route to Westminster
·
Fearing that mourners could r. ·. 
be crushed in the throng, \~FinchleyRoadl 
Buckingham Palace decided -rowostmtn$1er Wednesday to more than triple Regents Park the length of the route for 
Princess Diana's funeral pro­cession through London. 
The royal family said it was "deeply touched" by the public outpouring of grief over the princess's death in a high-speed car crash in Paris early Sunday. 
The coffin, borne aboard a gun carriage. will leave Saturday from Diana's Kensington Palace home instead of St. James's Palace as first planned, adding 2 1/2 miles to the original one-mile route. to Westminster Abbey, 
Kevorkian assists 48th suicide 
BLOOMFIELD TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian assisted in the suicide Wednesday of a Pennsylvania woman with ovarian cancer at a motel here, his lawyer said. Attorney Geoffrey Fieger said Carol Fox was in her 50s. He did not know where in Pennsylvania she was from. "She was in tremendous pain and she did not wish to suffer any more," Fieger told 

WWJ-AM. "No amount of painkillers could alleviate the cancer." An officer who answered the phone at the Bloomfield Township police department Wednesday evening confirmed that police were investigating a suspi­cious death at the Quality Inn. She declined to provide further details. Authorities burst into the same motel last September while Kevorkian was meeting with Isabel Correa, 60, of Fresno, Calif. She died in the presence of Kevorkian the next day. Fieger said a note was left with Ms. Fox's body, as has been Kevorkian's practice in recent assisted suicides. Fieger said Ms. Fox's family had accompanied her to Michigan and had already returned to Pennsylvania. He said he has been retained by her family. Ms. Fox's death brings the number of deaths Kevorkian has acknowledged attending to 48, although Fieger said last month that Kevorkian had attended "nearly 100" deaths. 
Cost to become citizen may rise 
WASHINGTON 
The cost of becoming a U.S. citizen would more than double under a draft Clinton administration proposal that is drawing fire from advocates for immigrants. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has forwarded to the Justice Department a plan to raise a range of fees, including hiking the current $95 citizenship application to $200 or more. The Justice Department, the INS parent agency, has yet to approve the proposal, which would have to undergo a public comment period before it could take effect. Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus' immigration task force, denounced the proposed fee increases. He said the INS has no business increasing fees paid by the public when agency backlogs are causing applicants to wait two or more years in some cases to become citizens. The INS has been struggling to cope with an explosion in natural­ization applications prompted chiefly by immigration and welfare law changes. A record 1.8 million applica­tions are expected this year-up from 300,000 just five years ago. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature!-. 
"'· ~· .... 
L 
Thursday 
u 47 Friday ~ ~r 67 48 Saturday {)-72 54 
~ 
SundiJy ~ 76 58 
;. . 
..·:J'..--;f·~~, ... .;''-:.r' 
') 
a~~c::::1uo ~ ~ u
"'''' '''' ......:. +.::=·.;:=--=.-=.-:... 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 4. 
FRONTS: 
.....--.-.............. ....,..&r 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
tO 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Abbey has been extended 
• 
Huge TV screens will be set up in Hyde Park 

• 
Loudspeakers will relay the service to crowds 


Study: Three cheers for menopause 
BOSTON 
Menopause, with its stereotypical hot flashes, mood swings and night sweats, has long been viewed as a dreaded time in a woman's life. But 52 percent of American women aged 45 to 60 told a national survey that they consider menopause the beginning of a new and fulfilling stage. The study by The Gallup Organization also found that 79 percent of menopausal and postmenopausal women would advise others to approach the change with a positive attitude. The results, to be presented Thursday at a meeting here of the North American Menopause Society, are surprising -even to some gynecologists. "I think that American women have a lot of common sense and that they're rec­ognizing that menopause is a milestone," said Dr. Wulf Utian, executive director of the Cleveland-based menopause society. The study, which surveyed a repre­sentative sample of 750 American women, has a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. Eight in 10 women surveyed expressed relief about their menstrual periods stopping as a result of menopause. What was once a taboo subject is now discussed among mothers, daughters, sisters and friends. Twenty years ago, Woods said, few articles or books on the subject could be found. Now, menopause is a popular topic, even on the Internet. For most women, menopause occurs between the ages of 45 and 55, with the median age at 51.3 
Soybeans shoot up at CBOT 
CHICAGO 
Soybeans futures prices rose sharply Wednesday on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) as unusually cool temperatures threatened to slow crop growth and boost feed demand. Grain futures prices were mostly lower. Soybean futures gained amid forecasts calling for tem­peratures in several Midwestern growing regions to dip into the 40s overnight, followed by cool daytime temper­atures. While the cold spell is expected to last only a few more days, it may slow the crop's maturation enough to leave soybeans vulnerable to an early frost, said Daniel Markey at AgriAnalysis agricultural consulting firm. "It's only early September and there's already worry about cold weather," Markey said. "Cold weather has an effect on the crops, and it also means animals are going to need to be fed more to keep up their energy, which cuts into supply." The U.S. Agriculture Department on Tuesday reinforced speculation the crop is not doing as well as expected. The agency reported crops in good to excellent condition rose only 1 percentage point to 61 percent. 
palace officials said. 
"It is important there is a longer route so we can have as many people able to partic­ipate," said Prime Minister Tony Blair, who spoke by tele­phone Wednesday to Diana's ex-husband, Prince Charles. 
The funeral proceedings at Westminster Abbey will be shown live on two giant TV screens -about 16 feet high and 22 feet wide -in Hyde Park. Diana's coffin then will travel a 77-mile route to the princess's home village for bur­ial. 
Diana's coffin will be taken 
from  St.  James's  Palace  to  
Kensington Palace  on  Friday  
night.  

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Pmss 
Atlanta 81 52 Dallas 90 64 New Orleans 89 73 Baltimore 75 45 Denver 90 64 New York 77 57 Boston 72 55 Los Angeles 92 75 Philadelphia 75 52 Chicago 78 49 Miami 89 76 Phoenix 103 81 Columbus 78 46 Minneapolis 75 55 St. Louis 78 52 

Thursday, September 4, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Ne'W center meets family needs 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
One year ago Wednesday, the field in the northeast cor­ner of University Village Married Student Housing stood undeveloped and overgrown. Now, the 132 families living in the complex on Cripe Street and Douglas Road have a Groundbreaking took place in September of 1996 and the place was dedicated on Sunday." 
The new center, dedicated to Father Paul Beichner, a for­mer director of graduate stud­ies, contains a computer room, children's playroom, kitchen, dining room, meeting room and chapel. 
brand new community 
center on that field cour­
residents do have to tesy of the University still go to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. post office to pick up 
"The old one was in a their mail, but if they house on Cripe Street ever decide to bring the that Father David mail to the housing Burrell lived in," said pie purposes.' complex, the boxes will John Dillon, director of Cynthia Haas be here. 
programming for "In addition to the Manager, University Village boxes we have a bul-
Campus Ministry. "The-----------------­
center was pretty much just his living room. It was useful. but something bigger was needed. 
"Students made various pro­posals through the Graduate Student Union and Campus Ministry," he continued. 
"The idea for a new commu­nity center was placed on the proposal list for new building projects far the Board of Trustees. The project was approved last year. 
"The old center was just one big room that couldn't meet the needs of the people who live here," said Cynthia Haas, manager of University Village. "This new one has multiple purposes. We can hold two parties at once with both using the kitchen. The playroom doors can be closed, making it completely self contained. 
"The library has two com­puters with Internet access. 
You can do much more in this center than you could have ever done in the old one." 
The center will open at 6 
a.m. every day and close at midnight. The front door is keyed to conform to the apart­ment keys so that every resi­dent can access the front lobby during those times. 
"In the lobby, we have mail­boxes," Haas said. "Our 
letin board that is used by Campus Ministry," she con­tinued. "They have to put up their fliers in all the buildings now. Hopefully this board will become a center for announcements." 
Haas reserves the separate rooms to residents of the com­plex at their request. "So far it has been used a whole lot," she said. "It will be picking up as people get here and realize that they can use it." 

Come to the Huddle at 8pm on Thursday to sign yourself up. 
Cuban option added to international programs 
ByTIMLOGAN 
News Writer 
The Department of International Study Programs has added a Spanish-language Caribbean program to the list of 
study abroad opportunities available to Notre Dame students. 
The pro­gram, being offered this spring, will 

give under-Bogenschild graduates the opportunity to study and travel in Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and Cuba. 
Students will take five classes, each for three credits, dealing with social, historical, cultural and religious aspects of the Hispanic Caribbean. 
Studying and living in the three countries, which share similar backgrounds but main­tain distinctive forms of govern­ment, will hopefully "get people thinking about the Hispanic Caribbean in comparative terms," said Thomas Bogenschild, director of International Study Programs. 
Students will attend the Universidad del Sagrado Corozon in San Juan, Puerto Rico, for the first month of the program. While in San Juan, the students' coursework will focus mainly on Puerto Rican issues. 
After leaving San Juan, the students will spend 10 weeks at the Pontificia Universidad Catolica (PUC) Madre y Maestra in Santiago, Dominican Republic, focusing on local issues for their first five weeks of study. 
For the second month in Santiago, the program's focus will shift to Cuba, bringing Cuban scholars to PUC Madre y Maestra to discuss the issues of the nation with the students. 
After their initial study of Cuba, the students will fly to the island for an 11-day tour, visit­ing a number of cities before they return home. 
This is the only Cuban study program offered in the United States which visits Cuba while remaining independent of the state-run University of Havana. 
"We were not entirely satisfied with what was offered by the University of Havana," Bogenschild said. 
To alleviate some of the possi­ble logistical problems, associate professor of anthropology Martin Murphy, the program's academ­ic advisor, will spend most of the fall semester in the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico work­ing out the logistics of the pro­gram. He will be the only Notre Dame professor to accompany the students during their travels. 
"The program represents a unique study abroad opportuni­ty," said Murphy, who first pro­posed the trip. 
"The three countries exhibit similar cultural traditions, colo­nial histories and ethnic and racial compositions, yet they have taken different courses in their political and economic organization." 
Bogenschild called the trip "an exciting new direction for international programs, and one that responds to faculty initia­tives." 
For those who are tempted by the idea of spending the winter months studying in the Caribbean, Bogenschild warned about the academics of the pro­gram. 
"This is definitely not a beach trip. We'll have a very intense, challenging program," he said. 
The trip is designed for stu­dents majoring in the social sci­ences, but any student proficient in Spanish is eligible to apply; 12 applicants will be selected for the trip this year. 
An informational session will be held on Sept. 17, and applica­tions are due Oct. 1. 
y;r>t:<r< 
HiP-HOP? 
; 
Informational Meeting When: Sunday, September 7
Questions??? 
Where: Montgomery 
Theater in LaFortune
Call # 1-7757 
Time: 7:00 pm 




ResNet Installation Update During the past two weeks, over 2,000 student computers have been connected to ResNet. The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) staff and Resident Computer Consultants (RCCs) are working diligently to help those who need assistance. Unfortunately, the current demand far exceeds our ability to perform timely installations, and we apologize for any delays you might be experiencing due to the backlog. We will continue to service installations as quickly as possible. Because of the high demand for installations, we must prioritize the schedule for ResNet installations as follows: 1. Computers purchased from the Notre Dame Computer Store this year. 2. Hardware of the same brands and models sold by the Notre Dame Computer Store which meet the recommendations published in the Back to School brochure. These computers include Apple, Dell (except for Dimension), or IBM (except for Aptiva). The recommended configurations can be found on the Web at www.nd.edu/ .. resnet/hwrec.html 3. All other hardware models which meet recommended configurations. However, as published in the Back-to-School brochure, we cannot guarantee that computers in this category can successfully connect to ResNet. The recom­mended configurations can be found on the Web at www.nd.edu/ .. resnet/hwrec.html In-room Installations At this time, in-room installations are only being scheduled for desktop computers in the first and second priorities listed above.  • Installation Fairs If you need assistance getting your computer connected to ResNet, we encourage you to take it to the Installation Fairs at the following locations. If you have a desktop computer, bring only your CPU. For laptops, bring your carrying case, power supply, and external floppy drive or removable internal floppy drive. LaFortune Student Center, Room 16 (Computer Ouster) DeBartolo Hall Interaction Area, Room 133A (lounge adjacent to Computer Ouster) Thursday, September 4 10am-8pm Friday, September S lOam-Spm Extended Installation Fair Dates Because of the large number of computers still needing installation, we have made arrangements to extend the ResNet Installation Fair at the DeBartolo site only. The hours are: Monday, September 8 10am-8pm Tuesday, September 9 10am-8pm Wednesday, September 10 lOam-Spm (no computer accepted after 12 noon on Wednesday) Other Options for You • Install ResNet yourself. Pick up the ResNet installation materials at the OIT Help Desk (111 CCMB), or get a copy from the Fair sites. • Ifyou have Windows 95 and you have trouble connecting, see the special document W2624 ResNet Troubleshooting Tips for Windows 95, available at the Installation Fairs, the OIT Help Desk, or from your RCC. • Call the OIT Help Desk at 631-8111 or call the ResNet Help Line at 631-7610 and request an RCC follow-up. We will answer your questions as quickly as possible, but you might have to wait 2-3 weeks after the Installation Fairs have concluded before an RCC can schedule an appointment.  

Security 
continued from page 1 
based on details provided by the student. Two are described as black men, 23-24 years old and approximately 200 pounds. The girl alleged that she was dragged into the car by a Caucasian man aged 19-21, 5'8" tall and well-built. 
Rakow said police are also try­ing to locate the vehicle, which the girl said is a mid-size with four doors. She could not specify the color, make, or model. 
"We're checking with all our officers that staff the gates, and looking very closely at the infor­mation we have," Rakow said. "We're carefully pursuing this." 
He encouraged students with any relevant information to con­tact Notre Dame Security/Police at 631-5555. 
Dorms 
continued from page 1 
amenities depending on the dorm in which they reside. 
For instance, the men from Alumni Hall must walk across campus to nearby women's dorms or LaFortune to wash their clothes, but men from Keough and O'Neill Halls sim­ply go to their first floor laun­dry rooms. 
"Laundry is what most people complain about," Alumni sophomore Marc Glasstetter said. "At the beginning of [last] year I was a little peeved, but you get used to it. You don't know any different. You put up with what you're dealt -it builds character." 
This sentiment seems to exist in others dorms where facilities are not comparable to others', according to Morrissey junior Mark Low. 
"At Morrissey, we wanted more social and living and study space. The new dorms have these huge lobbies and before [this summer's) renova­tion, we had a room that was dark and cramped with some type of sludge material growing on it in the basement," Low said. 
Kathy Peak, a Welsh Hall junior, feels lucky to have been placed into a new dorm after comparing her amenities with those of older women's dorms. 
"It's kind of weird, but it 
makes me feel lucky that a computer just spit my name out and now I have this new furni­ture and these older dorms have really old showers and laundry facilities," Peak said. 
Most Notre Dame students take whatever they are handed, but o-ther universities' policies charge students specific rates 
····really old showers and laundry facilities.' 
Kathy Peak 
for the different amenities they receive. 
At Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., students can chose from 37 residence halls and pay according to the type of room and dorm they choose. 
"Singles, of course, are more expensive," said Hillary Skilbeck of Northwestern's undergraduate housing office. "The newer dorms have new furniture, air-conditioning and carpet, so those are more expensive as well." 
An average double at NU, for example, costs $3,582 in an older building and $3,860 in a newer one, according to Skilbeck, and students can apply to Jive in any building of their choice regardless of year in school. 
Similar circumstances exist at Indiana University in Bloomington. 
"Students can ask for whatev­er kind of room they want, but should expect to encounter a wide variety of room rates depending on air-conditioning, age of building, type of room, latest instance of renovation and size," said Buck Walters, director of IU's programmed housing. 
These schools allow freshmen as well as returning students the decision of where they want to live, whereas Notre Dame students are placed into dorms arbitrarily. 
"The only concerns as to requests we have are for handi­capped students and those who prefer to smoke. If a student requests a dorm, they get a let­ter saying, 'Sorry, we don't do that,"' Gooley said. 
Notre Dame students seem content with their living arrangements, though inconsis­tencies do exist. According to Low, community is more important than a roof and walls. "Morrissey might not be physically as nice as the 'hotels' they built over on West Quad, but I know that the guys are really happy. The physical structure of the building is not what matters," he said. 
Internet 
continued from page 1 
The six researches who helped Notre Dame win the NSF grant were Bruce Bunker in physics and the Advanced Photon Source project; John LoSecco in physics and the High Energy Physics Group; David Bennett in physics and the MAssive Compact Halo Objects (MACHO) astrophysics project; Joannes Westerink in engineer­ing with his hydrodynamic com­putations in continental margin waters; Hafiz Atassi in aero­space and mechanical engi­neering and his NSF-funded Grand Challenge Project, a numerical laboratory for multi­model and multi-domain com­putational methods in aerody­namics; and Andrew Lumsdaine in computer sci­ence, who is studying high per­formance parallel computing. 
The researchers will be con­nected to the Metropolitan Research and Education Network (MREN) in Chicago with several peer institutions, including Northwestern University, the University of Chicago, the University of Illinois at Chicago, Argon Laboratories, Fermi Laboritories, the University of Minnesota, the University of Michigan, and the University of Wisconsin. 
Notre Dame currently has about 10,000 computers con­nected to its network, almost 4,000 in the residence halls and 6,000 elsewhere on campus. 
"We're upgrading the entire thing," Rapagnani said. The campus backbone network will be upgraded from 200 Mbps to 1,000 Mbps in the summer of 1998 to help support the faster Internet connection. 
The award was given to Notre Dame as a recognition of the "entire package," according to Rapagnani. 
He said that NSF looked at Notre Dame's networking strat­egy and architechture, the quality of the research projects being conducted, and the ser­vices provided to the students. 
"The primary benficiaries of this [upgrade] are the kids," Rapagnani said. 

Thursday, September 4, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS 
• SAINT MARY's SECURITY BEAT 
SMC Security encourages safety 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT Saint Mary's Associate News Editor 
For many students in South Bend, weekends are com­prised of one party after another. They cram them­selves into one room, with the bass pumping on the stereo and the alcohol flowing freely, to celebrate the freedom of the weekend. And after the parties, one way or another, students must get home. 
"Students need to take responsibility for their own safety," said Richard Chlebek, the director of Saint Mary's College Security. 
According to Chlebek, if Notre Dame or Saint Mary's 
students get into a situation where help is needed on cam­pus, they should use the emer­gency telephones located along the road from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's. The phones will directly link them to the campus Security office. 
"There is always safety in numbers," Chlebek said, "and when going places, students should always make sure that they have a ride, especially if the destination is not in a familiar area." 
If a student is stranded off campus in an area of ques­tionable safety and has no money with her to pay for a taxi, she can call Saint Mary's Security at 284-5000 for help. 
The officers will send a taxi with the fare covered by secu­rity funds, or, if the situation is one of immediate danger, they will send an officer to the student's location. 
"Saint Mary's students are encouraged to maintain and keep their community a safe environment through their cooperation," said Chlebek. 
Forms of transportation such as the United Limo shut­tle bus or cars are a safe way of getting from campus to campus. 
"We are not going to refuse to assist a student," Chlebek said, emphasizing that there is no need for a student to hesi­tate to call Security. 
NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
Public Welcome... Grand Opening of... 
Irish Courtyard 
"Come join us for Irish festivities and football weekend fun!" 

• 
Grilled Burgers & Brats 

• 
Cold Beverages 

• 
Big Screen T.V.s 

• 
Music 


Dining Room 
• 
Casual Dining Serving Daily, Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner 

• 
Reservations 


SOl/TH BEND. INDIANA
lit~~ Recommended 
Experience Springtime in the Nation's Capital 
• 
learn From and Network Among "Washington Insiders" 

•live 
3 blocks from the White House 

• 
Produce Radio and TV Advertisements in Campaign Simulations 

• 
Bike and Rollerblade by DC's Cherry Blossoms 

• 
Compete as Consulting Groups on Strategic lobbying Plans 


Make Connections to Launch YOUR CAREER 
The  The Graduate  
~  School of  
~!Y.~~ff  Ma!;l~:::  

GW is an equal opporlunity/affirmative action institution 
For More Information, And To Receive An Application, Contact: 
(800) 367·4776, (202) 994·6000 http:/I .gwu.edu/"'gspm 
Now Accepting Applications On A Rolling Admissions Basis. 
Apply NOW! Spring Session Deadline: October 31, 1997 
7 .'ZSU', z.:.
I 
• 
Notre Dame Souvenirs 

• 
All under a Large tent • Fri. 3:00pm-10:00pm • Sat. 9:00am-7:00pm 


Cocktail Lounge 
• 
Sandwich and Appetizer Menu Available Daily 

• 
Popular Campus Gathering Spot 


weighing Friday's ··'"~'"'~·" ..... its scientific panel, exi)ected to decide this fall 
Celgene offers vwLJu~;u protection. 
"We would aim for some­thing that is highly foolproof," said the FDA. 
Saturday is the Big Day! Good Luck Dansby Brothers 
Show ~em what'cha 
Love, Mary Jo, Pam, Michael, Shiloh and "Hey, I'm Marty" 
Thinking Of Joining the Church? 
Sacred Heart Parish at Notre Dame invites you to its September RCIA classes W1 offer: -a parish setting on campus 
-Wednesday evening sessions -a diverse mix ofpeople and ages -a convenient option for students who cannot attend Campus Ministry RCIA 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 for info. 


page 6 



~-------------------------·
ithe shirt 97 
I 
I 
I I I I I I  $4 < >FF  
I  I  
:  valid only with a current student id at the following  1  
1  campus locations:  I  
1  bookstore, alumni association, varsity shop, &  :  
I I  lafortune information desk.  1I  
I  I  
I  I  

--------------------------· 


Ea~h y'e,ar, ~inc~' 
1991, the NOtre . Dame Student-
joins together 
show their schCJol 
Spiliit IJj-We~ritig 
I \ ' 

,~ -~r;;:. " ---~'
n.e_u-rtzrt. 
I _ : \ 
I \ J 
\ I
\ \ '~-·­

---" --------\ ....... -• • ·-•-~• ___ __; I l •• 
r 

This~ Saturday, "The -Shift'o' iS\even more 
imjJortari't as we 
begin a_nel1( era of 
Notre iJame\__J 
fo Celebrate 

1 h. • \ . L 
l ,~-: 
. zsto-rzea 
. ''
~

· earzf}g Shirt" at the · 
' 

.Georgia Tech 
gaf!Ze. -.,.,.. 


Thursday, September 4, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Magazine prints contents of Ramsey's ransom note 
Associated Press 
DENVER 

JonBenet Ramsey's mother gave police conflicting accounts of the morning she said she found a ransom note. according to Vanity Fair magazine. 
The upcoming issue also reports that only Patricia Ramsey's handwriting, out of 7 4 tested, "set off alarm bells" and that affidavits for arrest warrants for JonBenet's par­ents have been ready since May. 
The magazine's October issue also includes a transcript of the ransom note. 
Six-year-old JonBenet's body was discovered in the basement of her Boulder home on Dec. 
26. eight hours after Mrs. Ramsey said she found the note. John Ramsey found his daughter's beaten and stran­gled body after initial police 
searches turned up nothing. 
Police have made no arrests in the case. Investigators have said John Ramsey has been ruled out as a writer of the note, but not Mrs. Ramsey. 
Vanity Fair cited a police report written by Boulder policeman Richard French who said Mrs. Ramsey told him at first that she had gone into JonBenet's room at about 5:45 
a.m. to wake her up, and find­ing the room empty, went down the spiral back stairs where she discovered the note. 
French said Mrs. Ramsey later told him she found the note on the spiral back stairs when she went down to make coffee, then ran to JonBenet's room, according to the maga­zine. The magazine provided media outlets Wednesday with advance copies of the story and said the transcript of the ran­som note came from a "know!­

edgeable source." 
Vanity Fair quoted "an inves­tigator closely involved with the testing of the ransom note" as saying of the 7 4 samples sub­mitted for testing, "Patsy's handwriting was the only one that set off alarm bells." 
The magazine also quoted a Colorado Bureau of Investigation report: "There are indications that the author of the ransom note is Patricia Ramsey, but the evidence falls short to support that definitive conclusion." 
Published reports have described various aspects of the note, including that it was pur­portedly from a foreign group and that it asked for $118,000. 
The only known copies were in the hands of the Boulder dis­trict attorney's office, the police department and the Ramseys' lawyers. They all denied pro­viding the note to Vanity Fair. 
In a statement, Ramsey attor­ney Hal Haddon called the Vanity Fair article "tabloid trash." He said publication of the ransom note -which Boulder officials refused to allow the Ramseys to releas.e ­"warrants criminal and disci­plinary investigations." 
According to the transcript provided by Vanity Fair, the ransom note instructed JonBenet's father, to take an "adequate size attache to the bank" to pick up $118,000. It said he would be called at home between 8 a.m. and 10 
a.m. and told how to deliver the 
money. No call was received. "Any deviation of my instruc­tions will result in the immedi­ate execution of your daugh­ter," the note said. "You will also be denied her remains for proper burial." 

"You are not the only fat cat around so don't think that killing will be difficult. Don't underestimate us, John. Use that good, southern common sense of yours. It's up to you now, John," the note also said. 
The ransom note ended with, "Victory! S.B.T.C." There has been speculation the initials, previously disclosed, could be a reference to the Subic Bay training center in the Philippines, where Ramsey was in the Navy. 
Pro Shop Hours Sat-Sun 6:00 -5:00 Mon-Fri 6:30 -5:00 VISIT OUR PRO SHOP IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL  


PREREOUISrrE: ADRENAUNE 
Drive. Intensity. Those aren't your character, confidence and words you're likely to seein many decision-making skills. Again, course requirements. Then again words other courses seldom use. Army ROTC is unlike any other But they're the credits you need to elective. It's hands-on excite-succeed in life. ROTC is open to ment. ROTC will challenge you freshmen and sophomores with-
mentally  and  physically  ~,.t:ADERSHIP  out  obligation and requires  
through intense leadership  '  about five hours perweek. Reg- 
training. Training that builds  ister this term for Army ROTC.  

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details. visit Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 

.. _ -·-· . --·---------------------..J 




By CURT,ANDERSON Associated Pt¢Ss.Wdter 
WASHINGTON 

Reversing course by an unexpectedly large margjn, the Senate dealt the tobaccQ industry a blow Wednesday by approving the Clinton admin~· istration's $34 million request for a crackdown on cigarette sales to teen"agers. 
''Big tobac~o fought jt because tb;ey.want to keeP ~n getting .. kids lH:J{)ke~;·• said De atic Sen~ ~tnn Harkin... owa, the main sponsor ofJegislation backing the administration's fut.tding request.· "This is one step i~ a big battle, but it's a gr~at 
step.'' ..•. ·••· . . •.. ·)·

A few hours later, the House showed its nonbinding but also overwhehning support of the full $34 million, whiCh is $10 million more than House members had initially appro" 
priated. •·• ·•·•··.. . . . . .• .···.·•··•·
"It is an important victory for our children and a clear endorsement of the national effort to protect them from the dangers {)ftobacco," Vi~e President.Al Gore said Jn a 
statemen~<i> ...•.,.... . . . ·• • In July.'.Q'ie~~mate. re an atteniptto fully fun Food and Drug Administration program that would provide money for an 50 states to ensure stores. are che¢kln.g 
identlfidn;~iqp JQ ... . minors fr:cini. buying f CC() products. Instead, the enate had appr(:}ved just $4.9 mil-. lion, enough for perhaps 10 states. 

During Jhe.August. congr~s~ sional r(lpess, tobacc{)<foes lobbied furiously to boost the amount, focUsing on a IH'ovi­sion of the just-completed bal­anced budget deal that per­mits tobacco companies to use $50 billion from a future qjga­rette tax increase to help pay . for the. proposed national set~ tlement of health-related smoking lawsuits. 
Harkin also changed the source ofthe $34 million for FDA from an assessment on tobacco co:mpat.ties to a retl:uc.­tion in <computer money for the Agriculture Department. 
"I think in many cases peo­ple h~e had a closer look and that they feel very comfort&ble with the. vote.•" said Se11ate Minority Leader Tom D8$¢hle, D•S.D.• wM switched his Vote, 
Whenthejssue came to a vote Wednesday, senators joined Daschle in rejecting an attempt to kill Harkin's amendm.ent by asurprisingly decisive 70·28 vote. Harkin's previous eff()rtfalled $2,-48/ . 
The amendment was added to the Agriculture Department spending bill for fiscal· 1998, the imal version of which will be produced through Ho.:use., Senate negotiations. 
Later Wednesday, the JioiJ.se voted 299"1Z5 for a non-.bind..: ing resol:ution instructing·its negotiators to support the Senate funding level instead of the $24 milliot.t the House had 
approved. i 
< •· ·••·
Meanwhile; a Senate com" mittee continued heartngs Wednesday on the prop(lsed $368 billion settlement of state health-related smoking lawsuits despite growing.sen~ timent that Congress vvUI put· 

Careless credit card use leaves students in debt 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ind. 
Many college students are learning a lesson in the school of hard knocks: The careless use of credit cards can leave them deep in debt. 
Each fall, credit card compa­nies descend on college cam­puses, often using high-pres­sure tactics to entice students into signing on the dotted line. 
For many, the lure of plastic is too much to resist. 
"The trouble starts when students are issued their own credit cards with huge lines of credit and they begin to live beyond their means," said Charlene Sullivan, associate professor of management at Purdue University. 
Credit card companies place stacks of credit card applica­tions in bookstores, student centers, dining halls and near­by businesses, often sweeten­ing the offer with freebies such as T-shirts and soft drinks. They also runs ads in the college newspaper or on campus radio. 

The tactic isn't anything new and neither is the reason behind it. 
"The assumption is that col­lege graduates eventually will have an above-average income and be more future-and investment-oriented," Ms. Sullivan said. 
But students who take the credit bait often find them­selves saddled with debt after graduation and hampered by a bad credit rating, said Lisa Piercefield, branch coordina­tor for Consumer Credit Counseling Services. 
Piercefield estimates that about 10 percent of the clients at the Columbus business are students with credit card debt. 
"It's very difficult to work and go to school full time," she said. 
Branch offices of Consumer Credit in college towns such as Bloomington, Terre Haute and Muncie see scores of students seeking help with their credit card debt, Ms. Piercefield said. 
A recent Consumer Credit survey found that most stu­dents who carry t;:redit cards do so primarily for emergen­
cies. · 
But others use credit cards to actually fund their college education. According to a July study by Sallie Mae's Consumer Hesearch Panel, over 20 percent of students use credit to pay for some part of their education costs ­often their mounting college loans. 

Used responsibly, the cards can help students establish good credit.' 'The problem comes when students can't differentiate between what they need, what they want and what are emergencies," Ms. Piercefield said. 
She recommends students set a budget and know exactly what they need and for what they are going to use the card. The problem is that few par­ents regularly discuss the sub­ject of money with their chil­dren, and most schools do lit­tle to prepare youngsters for ·essential financial tasks like 
budgeting or handling credit. 
"It's one of those taboo sub­jects; it's like sex," said Christine Cooke, vice president and manager of education ser­vices at Merrill Lynch in their New York City offices, located on Park Avenue. 

N=48.00
•I%=14.90 
PV=9000.00 
PMT=-250.00
FV=0.00
P/Y=12.00
C/Y=12.00
PMT:I!.Il! BEG IN 

. Finance. Fieerlcial ~ • functions: Time-Value-at-Money, , · · cash ftowa. il1d emertization. . __ 
~ "-' 

j Thursday, September 4, 1997 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
j
i 
l
• CAMBODIA 
Three survivors found in airplane crash 
By ROBIN McDOWELL The boy initially had been tary of state for information, Associated Press Writer the only known survivor, at the said Cambodia would seek capital's main hospital, investigative help from foreign 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia Calmette. But Cambodian technical experts. 
A Thai toddler and two other leader Hun Sen announced AP photographer David people survived when a that there were two other sur­Longstreath, waiting at the air­Vietnam Airlines plane carrying vivors at another hospital. port to catch another flight, 66 people crashed Wednesday Further information about said he heard the normal sound on approach to Phnom Penh's them was not immediately of a plane on approach and airport, skidding through a dry available. then the high rev of engines rice paddy before exploding. Hun Sen visited the Calmette trying to regain altitude. 
Bodies scattered. and hun­hospital while 49 bodies cov­"There was a red ball of fire dreds of people rushed to the ered with white sheets were followed by a huge plume of area a half-mile south of the unloaded from trucks. Workers black smoke," Longstreath 
runway -to pick the pockets were to try to recover the rest said. of the dead, steal luggage or of the bodies Thursday, which Bodies from the crash were make off with pieces of wreck­was declared a national day of strewn around the fire-black­age. Some police oflicers joined mourning. ened wreckage. Looting began in until others chased off the "It's big tragedy, an acci­almost immediately, looters. No arrests were report­dent," Hun Sen said, saying Longstreath said. ed. that the crash was caused by Vietnam Airlines officials in 
Relatives expecting loved weather and "not by terror­Ho Chi Minh City said the plane ones on the flight from Ho Chi ists." was carrying six crew and 60 Minh City rushed to the site. A The Tupolev 134 was passengers. Airline oflicials did Cambodian man surveying the approaching the Pochentong not have a detailed passenger carnage wept, saying: "My International Airport runway list. brother! My brother's supposed from the east at about 2,000 The U.S., Australian and to be here." feet when the control tower Canadian embassies said none 
The Soviet-built Tupolev 134 ordered the pilot to attempt an of their nationals were believed crashed during a rainstorm; the approach from the west. to be on board. cause was under investigation. Tith Chantha, chief of the Vietnam Airlines was one of 
Cambodian leader Hun Sen control tower, said the crew the first carriers to resume ser­said the dead included 22 lost communication with the vice to Phnom Penh after the Taiwanese, 21 South Koreans, tower, and three minutes later airport was damaged and loot­eight Chinese, four the plane was diving into palm ed during a July coup by troops Cambodians, two Vietnamese, trees. It leveled trees and bam­loyal to Cambodian leader Hun one Japanese, one Australian boo stands, killed a tethered Sen. The tower was stripped of and one "European." cow and slid 200 yards in a dry equipment, which was hastily Nationalities of the rest were rice paddy before exploding replaced. ,,'I unknown. and skidding to a fiery stop. The twin-engine, medium­,, 
The Thai boy, 1-year-old Rescue workers pulled bod­range Tu-134 was designed in Chanayuth Nim-Anong, sur­ies from the flames, which the 1960s, Vietnam Airlines vived the crash with a broken burned for more than an hour. oflicials said. 
when the plane crashed and

leg and was hospitalized in sta­Rain had flooded the narrow The plane still is widely used 
exploded. He rushed to the site. 

ble condition. His mother, a dirt road into the site, delaying in Russia and other countries 
"There were so many people, 

Chinese national, died in the fire trucks. with ties to the former Soviet 
and I saw someone carrying my

crash. At least three people -two Union. 
boy," Niphon told The

The boy's father, Niphon men and a 4-year-old boy -Once a mainstay in the 
Associated Press. "I saw it was

Nim-Anong, 40, a businessman survived the initial crash, but Vietnam Airlines fleet, it mostly 
my son and brought him to the

from the Thai coastal resort of died later from their injuries. has been replaced by Western 
hospital."

Pattaya, was awaiting the flight Khieu Kanharith, the secre-aircraft. 



I 
'I
Head for the Hills! 

~-tl) 
C£NT!:R f'OR 
Appalachia Se:minar 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Is a one credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & fol!ow-u;J classes 

• 
Offers service work through vartous sites in Appalachia 

• 
Past partiCipants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as site coordmators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 



INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, September 9,1997 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 

APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns 

• 6:00 p.m. -8:30 p.m.• 
Due date: Thursday, September 11, 1997 $40 deposit with application 

FURTHER INFORMATION 
Sean Frey, Student Co-chair, 4-4911 Ryan Murphy, Student Co-chair, 4-1980 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-9473 

SOUTH
Jay Brandenberger, Faculty Advisor, 1-5293 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, September 4, 1997 
• llOONESBUIW GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergasc 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor............................ Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager............................... Jed Peters Viewpoint Ediror ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sporrs Editor .................................. Mike Day Producrion Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Kacie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the srudenrs of the University ofNo<re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Edicor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediror, Accenr Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present rhc views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available co all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions. through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  63I-53I3  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  63I-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  63I-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoinr E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

..:rt~}~~'
UNU-M,. 
~... 

• lET ME CLEAR MY THROAT , .• 
The truth of what really happened in the death of Princess Diana in Paris last weekend is still being sorted out as the days since the tragedy pass. As the authorities investigating the deadly acci­dent continue their work, one can only hope that the story of the princess' death will not evolve into the same kind of tabloid tale that the rest of her short life did. Yet, I for one have to believe that those who couldn't get enough of her private life for the past decade and a half probably won't be able to get enough of its abrupt end. 
So I'm bracing myself for the overload 
Scott 
Cullen 

of probing insights into the reaction of the royal family, the reports of her final hours with her boyfriend, and worst of all, the heartfelt, adoring retrospective biographies by the very programs and publications which served to make that life at times so painful. But with many high profile tabloid news stories, beneath all of the sensationalism there lie real issues that ought to be exam­ined. In this case, the horrific death of three people in Paris brings about the question of how the tabloid media around the world have been allowed to reach their current status and who bears responsibility. 
Despite early reports, it seems that the freelance photographers chasing Diana's Mercedes were among anum­ber of causes contributing to the fatal crash. Nonetheless, if their reported behavior on the night of the accident proves to be true, it is deplorable. Throughout the night the couple had been hounded by these so-called paparazzi. The driver of the Mercedes, who it appears also bears a great deal of the responsibility for the accident, was not Diana's regular driver. The normal chauffeur had been dispatched earlier in the evening in a separate direction in an effort to divert as many photographers as possible. As yet unconfirmed reports indicate photographers on motorcycles may have been involved in causing the accident and, worst of all, that as the first ones on the scene of the accident they proceeded to snap pictures rather than assist the injured. Allegedly, they went so far as to inhibit rescue workers who were obstructing their photography 
Despicable behavior, indeed. And the reaction around the world has been quick and angry. Throughout Europe and here in our own country these pho­tographers have been widely denounced. Graffiti near the scene of the accident in Paris accuses them of being "cowardly murderers." No doubt, they appear to be ideal scapegoats. 
But if we look deeper into the what motivates these very reporters and pho­tographers who the world is now scram­bling to blame and vilify, a disturbing truth comes to light. In fact, the photog­raphers who rbased that Mercedes into the tunnel are part of a bigger system of tabloid media which thrives worldwide. They were chasing Diana around for the same reason that they chase all celebri­ties -exclusive photographs of certain individuals can bring about extraordi­nary paychecks. This is because publish­ers and producers benefit from sizable increases in circulation and audience when they feature such photos. Thus, while it is right to find fault with the photographers' actions, responsibility does not end with them. 
We are the ones who prop up this larger system of mindless media. In our world of market economy, price reflects public demand. If exclusive photos of Diana, O.J. Simpson, or Liz Taylor are worth an extraordinary sum of money, it is because a great many people wish to 
see them. If 
tabloids are rec­ognizing signifi­cant profit from the publication of such photos, it follows that a significant num­
ber of individu­als are shelling out money for 
them. The fact is that the suc­cess of the sen­sationalistic media, both in our country and around the· world, is repre­sentative of a disturbing and significant pub­lic interest and support. 
For whatever reason, many people in society feel the need to live vicariously through the ups and downs {more often than not the downs) of public figures who have had their private lives taken away from them. A large segment, though certainly not all, of the television and print media profit from this unfortu­nate fact. And why not? They stand to make a healthy sum from it. Meanwhile, newsworthy stories of little public inter­est are given lesser notice. Those who watch "Hard Copy" and read the National Enquirer know all about Frank Gifford's latest exploits. It's less likely that they're up to speed on the Congressional budget deal or peace negotiations in the Holy Land. 
Finally, in some situations, a high pro­file story brings to light legitimate issues worthy of consideration, but they are overshadowed by the public's desire for personal details. For example, the O.J. Simpson trial could have sparked a meaningful discussion on the issue of domestic violence. Instead it produced, for the most part, graphic murder details and speculation into the personal lives of the prosecuting attorneys. In short, we ourselves are giving rise to a media more inclined to entertain than to inform. Along the way we are making life a living hell for those who we chose to anoint as either our heroes or villains. 

The tragic deaths of Diana and her escorts in Paris bring into plain view the issue of sensationalistic media and its negative effects both on the journalistic profession and the individuals who are its focus. It is an extraordinary case in that it turns the spotlight on the very institution that will cover it. This inci­dent should serve as a wake up call to the public and cause us to reexamine our televised and print media as they exist today, specifically on what we desire and demand from those who cover our world. Hopefully this issue won't be overshadowed by a glut of insincere remembrances and exclusive photos from the scene of the crash. 
Scott Cullen is a junior Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. His col­umn appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

"you furnish the pic­tures, and I'll furnish the war." 
-William Randolph Hearst 
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, September 4, 1997 page 11 
• AROUND THE WORlD IN A HUNDRED DAYS , •• 
Traveling through the Far East to a broader world 
MALAYSIA 

One backpack, four months, 10 coun­tries, 27 strangers: Semester Around the World. So, I'm sitting in the plane on Aug. 23, bawling. The girl sitting next to me, who I've met a few times, is also bawling. Alii could think was: What am 
Juliana Vodicka 

I doing? Who are these people? Why? What am I trying to prove? I can still go home. 
After many conversations with myself, three planes and 24 hours of travel time, the 27 complete strangers landed in Tokyo. It did not take long to lose at least a little bit of my initial apprehension. Being surrounded by those who are in the same situation as myself, I fell into the comfort zone created by our distance from home. 
I must say, at first I was not sure about this mix of people. Here I am, hard core Notre Dame student, dreading the loss of a football season and all other aspects of Notre Dame life (absence makes the heart grow fonder). Also, I'm that girl you see with the U-Hall truck moving in, filled to the brink with all my absolutely necessary knickknacks and other such odds and ends. Who can go a whole semester without their pet rock made in summer camp 10 years ago? Now, one bag that weighs 44 pounds or less. Craziness. But then on this trip we also have the crunchy granola/tree bugger types. And that guy who has worn the same t-shirt and shorts for the past two years. He's here too. Why not? It's easy for him to make bag weight. You know those girls that are ready by 8 a.m., hav­
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Heather MacKenzie Observer staff recently article published (Sept. the "Inside Column." If don't recall the gist of give you a little recap. &. Basically, she's ranting about the imperfections of her new dorm. McGlinn Hall. Heather .· •····· after hearing your whining ·· ·· about McGlinn, I have two •.•....•• words for you: Morrissey · Manor. 
You want to cry about your dorm? Let's cry. 
Yeah, your doubles are really small -about the size of a typ­ical freshman quad over here in the real world. I've seen the doubles in the new dorms ­they are easily larger than what I'm living in, and I'min a triple. A big triple by our ·· dards. And let's not get your actual et space 
Okay, air cortditioning ing already worked out, showered, and all that? Yep, them too. Between the t­shirt guy and granola we have an assort­ment of people unlikely to be seen togeth­er at the dining hall. Yet, each of these differences that have not faded through each country add to the group dynamics. In turn, this unity dictates the overall experience of the group. It must be fate. 
The past 12 days have been an over­load to most every aspect of my life. My mind is a blur of feelings, impressions and questions. Traveling through Japan, Taiwan, China, Singapore and Malaysia has created a never-ending series of sto­ries and experiences. The most humor­ous and fun times so far have been attempting to eat. After Japan, where they have pictures on the menu, we've never known what's for dinner. While in Taipei, Taiwan, a group of us entered a restaurant determined to endure the lan­guage barrier. After many previous fail­ings the odds were against us. The young girl seated us and immediately pointed to a sign on the wall covered with Chinese characters. Chaos. Soon, we were in the kitchen, lifting pots and pans, and laughing with the girl and the cook. We finally established "noodle and beef'; for simplicity's sake we all had "noodle and beef' -except for two that went it alone, only wanting plain rice. They did get their rice, covered with minnows, scary fried meat and what we think is egg. We are all still alive and better from the experience. I know I could have learned a lot from the woman had one of us spoken the other's language. Yet, in that short time we all connected, lan­guage unnecessary. 
From eating to going to see "Big Buddha" as a group, we see many aspects of life on this planet. One day poverty in Xian, China, and the next the perfection of Singapore with its clean streets and zero percent unemployment rate. The strange thing, though, is that I had a hard time writing down "poverty" when referring to the people of Xian. There I saw for the first time the true 

History of 'The Shirt' Revisited 
"The Shirt" has been a part of Notre Dame football tradition, uniting the student body in a display of immense school spirit at the first home game of the season. Although most students wear "The Shirt," few know the history of the project and how the profits benefit the student body. "The Shirt" began as a Student Union Board endeavor in 1991. The funds generated from the first sales helped offset the cost of AnTostal. That year, because of the revenue from "The Shirt," AnTostal brought Blues Traveler to perform on campus. Since its inception, "The Shirt" has grown into a tremendous project run by a group of Notre Dame students working under the direction of the Office of Student Activities. The profits are no longer given just to SUB, but shared with student government, the class­es, Hall Presidents Council and the many clubs on campus as well. These are the groups that bring F-U-N to campus by providing concerts, lectures, movies, dances, Late Night Olympics, Sophomore Literary Festival, and Senior Week, just to name a few. In addition to funding these organizations, a large portion of the profits are given to charity, usually involving a member of the Notre Dame family. In the past few years, money has been given to the Rob Adams Fund and to aid the recovery of Mandy Abdo. In 48 hours we will be beginning a new era in Notre Dame football. Eighty thousand people will file through the gates of the reconstructed House that Rockne Built. Notre Dame students, united in one color, will demonstrate our astounding school pride as well as intimidate Georgia Tech. When the football players raise their gold helmets to the student section after our victory, let's guar­antee they see 10,000 of the best fans in college football sporting "The Shirt." 
To all who have already purchased this year's "The Shirt," thank you. If you do not yet own "The Shirt," hopefully with the understanding that this simple piece of clothing benefits your Notre Dame experience-both in the enhancement of quality programming and the awesome visual display of school unity at the first home game-you will make a trip to the bookstore. Buy It! 
The Executive Cabinet of the Student Union Matt Griffin, Student Body President Erek Nass, Student Body Vice President Andria Wisler, SUB Board Manager Shan nan Ball, SUB Director of Programming Beth Nolan, President, Class of 1998 Frank Law, President, Class of 1999 Walker Candelario, President, Class of 2000 Katie Marchetti, Co-Chair, HPC Mark Fennell, Co-Chair. HPC J en Dovidio, Judicial Council President Tony Siefring, Club Coordinator Stacy O'Brien, CCC Academic Division Representative Brendan Boyle, CCC Athletic Division Representative Jason Leung, CCC Ethnic Division Representative Richard Siefring, CCC Special1nterest Division Representative Mary Gillard, Student Government Chief ofStaff John Campbell, Off-Campus President Dave Neville, Off-Campus President Mark Higgins, Student Government Secretary Nerea Arrien, Student Body Treasurer September 3. 1997 
• Editors Note: A coupon for $4 offthe purchase ofThe Shirt with a valid student ID can be found on page 6 in The Observer today. 
richness of life. Those I originaJly felt sorry for soon turned the tables on me. In a free market, where a family's daily food is bought, I witnessed true content­ment and beauty. An old man surround­ed by friends playing checkers and laugh­ing while a woman held her child and fed it is what I saw. Not with just my eyes though, with my whole self. 
They d.on't know how "bad" they have it. They are ignorant, just as I am. I don't know anything past what I live from day to day. My own world of Julie's. Here my biggest problem is deciding which pair of jeans to wear and where I should go out tonight. This world was quickly shattered in these past days of travel. I'm left with nothing. Nothing but the knowledge and motivation that this next semester can be used to rebuild and shape my world. This time with a larger vision. 
The world being your classroom is an overwhelming and exhausting experi­ence. I look forward to my continual struggle and questioning all I used to think to be true. Our stay in the Far East is coming to a close. Bali is next, then we go on to India. Eventually we will reside in Cochin. 
Though I was nervous at first, those nerves have all but disappeared. Surrounded by amazing people, seeing some of the world's most treasured sites and experiencing the beauty of other cul­tures first hand, I'm now confident to say I'm ready for the next three and a half months. Bring it on! 
By the way, if any of you are fortunate enough to know anyone on Semester Around the World, please cut this out and save it. They would love it when they are back under the Dome. 
Juliana Vodicka is a junior English and theology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 12 l'hursday. Seprt"mhcr 4, I <)')7 

treponem pal 

radiohead 

OK Computer 

(out of five stars) 

S 
ince the release of The Bends a few years er, as does the following track, "Lucky," when' ago, Radiohead's popularity has deservedly Yorke's vocals float around and about in that famil­increased; that album was a landmark in iar Radiohead fashion. More energetic pieres are their career and demonstrated their talent few and far between, leading to the overall impres­well. As Oasis are currently finding out, the mainte­sion of an album best suited to late night listrning. nance of success al'ter a huge second album can "Subtnrranean Homesick Alien" offers a slightly prove dil'ficult, and so it is with a certain sense of more rapid paeP, but still nothing likP tlw vieissi­pleasure, and maybe relief, that Hadiohead's third tudns of The Bonds, and this is perhaps where the release is found to be both enjoyttble and reward­new release loses somnthing in comparison to its ing. illustrious predncessor. This third album is not 
Launehed on the back of the single "Paranoid marked by as many of the dramatic contrasts noted Android" and its surrBal video, OK Computer shows last time around, leading to an offering whic:h, a slightly different side of the band; the tortured although very good, does not provide thr same vocals remain, but some of the instant thrust and intensity and captivation as bnl'oro. Perhaps it is too excitement found on The Bends has been replaeed much to nxpect that such a display of brilliance by a more cireumscribed approach. "Paranoid might be sustained, but the good news is that Android" demonstrates this perfectly, a long, vary­Hadiohead have plenty of inspiration left in them ing single, it echoes some of the very best moments and will no doubt continue to impress us in thP of the previous album whilst simultaneously glanc­future. ing in the direetion of OK Computer's peculiar char­acter. Similar things ean be said of "No Surprises," by Julian Elliott a melancholy tune which slowly draws in the listen-
Being You 
I 
n my life, I have tried hard to keep an unbiased mind and never judge any thing by its cover. When I picked up a Copy of Attic Of Love's new album, Being You, I promised myself I wouldn't allow the band's extremely cheesy name (it sounds more like a Barry White CD) or its deathly album sleeve from allowing me to form an honest opinion. However after my first listen, I realized the name and the cover were clear indications of worse things to come. 
The music of Attic Of Love explores absolutely nothing new, simply recycling obvious influences like Helmet and bands of the Seattle music scene circa the late 80s/early 90s. The only noticeable dif­ference with Attic Of Love and the bands it closely models itself after is the presence of a nute, played by lead singer Andrew Tisbert. On the heavy songs, which comprise about 75 percent of the album, the flute replaces the lead guitar during solos. However, the difference is negligible considering the flute just sounds like a guitar laden with effects. In addition, Tisbert's vocals are so overdone and annoying that my ears literally begged me to hit the off switch. He sounds like Axl Hosfl doing an impression of Soundgarden's Chris Cornell, and much like Rose, he just does not know when to shut up. Ile throws in vocals whenever possible, and it's not like he has anything important to say. The lyrics constantly 
(out of five stars) 

revolve around ambiguous referent~es to sex and death. Ilis rich usage of certain terms and phrases (which he loves repeating over and over) manifest why an independent label put a parental advisory on the CD. Not that I have anything against swear­ing, but Tisbert's usage is more of a pathetic attempt to attract attention. 
The album is not entirely bad. I was very impressed with the acoustic guitar riffs that open many of the album's songs, but just when you've seen a lighter side to the band, the drums kick in and again Tisbert is all over the microphone with his attempt at emulating a tomeat. The traek "Being You" has a very odd arrangement with a vocal solo starting the song off. Like before, the band joins in after a minute, and the song reaehes it climax when Tisbert tries to include a traditional Irish flute solo against a background of distortion, messy power­chords, and a pounding bass. Bottom line: Irish folk music was never intended to b!l mixed in with hard rock. 
Attic 01' Love would probably have been a hit dur-. ing the transition from heavy metal to hard rock about a decade ago, but nowadays their music is completely obsolete and unoriginal. It is definitely not worth a listen. 
by Emmett Malloy 
attic of love 

BEING YOU 

Courtesy of Ocean Records 
Higher 
T 
rcponem Pal is a five-member French indus­triaVtechno band with roots dating back to the mid-80s. Ten years after its inception, their genre's acceptance has grown to the point that they were signed last year by Mercury/Polygram Hecords, the same company who owns the rights to 311, OMC, and Hanson. Their lat­est offering, Higher, was produced by KMFDM mas­termind Sascha Konietzko. In addition, Treponem Pal's guitarist, Michel Bassin, played several shows with Ministry at Lollapolooza last year, and vocalist Marco Neves performed a live set there too as well. Their musical ties arc clearly evident. Fierce self­described "jungle beats" mesh with highly distorted guitars and sampling to produce a very KMFDM feel. 
The first track, "Henegade," has a minute and a half intro that builds layer upon layer of stereo­phonic groves until the first verse begins. Unsurprisingly, the vocals are similar to almost every hard rock band; a lack of singing ability is compensated for by screaming into the microphone until it sounds like the lead singer gargles with glass 
'(,'cC!J,"c 
(out of five stars) 

shards before every song. 
Tremponem Pal differs from the majority of their counterparts in the fact that the songs actually dif­ferentiate from caeh other. While many of the album's traeks sound repPtitiously similar, some have different rhythms and sampling feels. The track "l'anornm" takes samples from a brass band and has a distinct "Cops" thenw song fen!. In acldi­tion, Iligher's last track is a cover of "Funky Town" by Lipps Inc. It is certainly the most rocked out cover of a disco song yet to be recorded, even beat­ing out Cake's version of "I Will Survive." 
Howovor, even Tremponom Pal has its limits. While this is a woll-mastored, smooth, hard, fast, and nonstop industrial CD well worthy of the name Higher, fans of industrial style music like Ministry, KMFDM, and White Zombie, will lind nothing partic­ularly new or ex.~eptionally innovative about this CD. Those who do not appreciate the "future sound of music" will c11rtainly find little to enjoy about this bass-intensive dance music. 
by Dominic Caruso 


• 


Thursday, Seprember 4, 1997 page 13 

guster 


Goldfly 
T 
he unique acoustical harmony of the bongos and conga drums, along with two guitars, sets Guster apart from every other emerging col­lege band. The Tufts University graduates ­Adam Gardner, Ryan Miller and Brian Rosenworcel -were vaulted onto the national scene with their debut on the Aware 3 compilation two years ago. Since then, they have toured the nation with such bands as the Barenaked Ladies and the Winebottles, developing a devoted following and a reputation for their loyalty to their fans. 
Their latest release, Goldfly follows up their first album Parachute and proves that they are definitely not some one-hit wonder. The powerful lyrics and melodious chords give this album a distinct charac­ter of its own; Goldfly has much more edge and feel­ing than Parachute. Goldfly begins with pulsating bongos and rippling chords, immediately setting the atmosphere of the album. The passionate music and powerful lyrics of Guster emanates, moving the lis­teners while keeping them humming along to the catchy tunes. Goldfly is the type of music one can either relax to or play at a party. Although they hail 
T:r't('Cn'cC( (out of five stars) 

from the same genre as the Dave Matthews Band, Rusted Root and Jackopierce, Guster is certainly in a league of their own. A great talent of the band is the duo vocals of guitarists Gardner and Miller; the two combine to create a vocal harmony that is both melo­dious and soulful. The songs of Goldfly cover a vari­ety of topics from deceit, hubris, st:icide to the loss of one's virginity. The songs deeply explore the human psyche, thus provoking self-reflection without being too heavy. The album continues with the mellow verses such as "Demon," which ranks among their best songs, "Medicine" and "X-Ray Eyes." The album is capped off with a stirring foursome of "Grin," "Getting Even," "Bury Me" and "Rocketship" which leave the listener satisfied yet wanting more. 
This may sound like a biased review, however I can't find any complaints with this album. Having seen them in concert, the album surpassed the expectations I had since seeing them, and that is a feat itself considering how incredible they are live. Guster definitely has a recipe for good music. 
by Scott Ford 
sweet 75 

Sweet 75 
0 
ne would think that Sweet 75's self-titled debut would be filled with fiery originality. The two key figures of the band, Krist Novoselic, former Nirvana bassist who incidentally plays guitar throughout most of the album, and Yva Las Vegas, a Venezuelan folk singer, arrive from dissimilar musical pasts, yet the majority of their product sounds just like the folk singer's name: superficial and contrived. Las Vegas lacks both creative lyricism and the ability to weave a melody that is either original or compelling. Lines such as '"Cause you dissed me and laughed at me/ Replaced me when I wasn't looking/ Dismissed me when I said please/ And you even gave my cat away" from "Poor Kitty" prove to be both unfunny and uno­riginal. This is Las Vegas' largest pitfall: she is not sarcastic enough to merit attention and not bitter enough to scare. Her biting lyrics achieve the admirable result of both annoying and agitating the listener. 
Novoselic's grunge influence dominates the album{ yet his harmonic textures and nuances are more generic and forgettable than those he created with Nirvana. The album waxes eclectic, but only on songs that successfully embrace Novoselic's style of harmony and Las Vegas' folk heritage. Two of the more inventive numbers also feature horn arrange­
T:r "1: (out of five stars) 

ments by the Tower of Power trumpeter, Greg Adams. "Dogs" juxtaposes a haunting verse texture with a gospel-esqe chorus, the horn section fittingly uniting the two textures together. While Las Vegas again has difficulty inventing an original melody on "Dogs," she sounds a bit more confident in her native language and style, in "La Vida" and "Cantos De Pilon," a Venezuelan traditional. The horns, Las Vegas' vocal lines, and Novoselic's funky chromati­cism are melded together for a spectacular and inspiring result in "La Vida," which also showcases Herb Alpert in a cameo trumpet solo. "Cantos De Pilon" departs from the brooding melodies and har­monies for a flavorful Latin sound, yet it is too much of a misplaced anomaly for this collaboration. 
Unfortunately, Las Vegas' and Novoselic's few glit­tering moments are overshadowed by uninventive lyrics, pathetic attempts at satire (on "Ode To Dolly," an amateurish attempt at a country jig), and cliched harmonic textures. Then again, perhaps this should be expected from a bassist trying to pick up guitar and a Venezuelan folk singer trying to dive into rock. 
by Joel Cummins 

Liquid Soul Sept. 5 Grant Park (Chicago) Rockstock '97 featuring Veruca Salt, Faith No More, 7 Mary 3, Helmet, Cracker, Local H, Silverchair, Local H, Gravity 
Kills, Nixons and Joan Jett 
L7/Sweet 75 BoDeans Jackopierce Leftover Salmon Rolling Stones/Blues Traveler Sept. 6 Sept. 7 Sept. 12/13 Sept. 13 Sept. 20/21 Sept. 23/25 
New World Music Theatre (Chicago) 
The Vic (Chicago) 
Rosemont Theatre (Chicago) 
House Of Blues (Chicago) 
The Vic (Chicago) 
Soldier Field (Chicago) 

-
-


Neagle tries to add to Braves' Cy Young collection 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
When Chipper Jones looks around the Atlanta clubhouse, he already sees three Cy Young Award winners. 
"It sure would be neat to have four guys in here with a Cy Young," the Braves third baseman said. 
Denny Neag-le is doing his part. Supposedly the anony­mous member of a rotation that includes Greg Maddux (NL Cy Young winner, 1992-95). Tom Glavine ('91) and John Smoltz ('96), Neagle is making a strong case that he's the best pitcher in the NL this year. 
While Maddux is having a typically brilliant season and Montreal's Pedro Martinez deserves strong consideration with 16 wins and a microscopic 

1.63 ERA, it may be impossible 
for the voters to deny Neagle. Consider these numbers: 
• 
He became the NL's first 19-game winner Tuesday night, pitching a four-hit shutout against the Detroit Tigers. With a record of 19-3, he has the best winning percentage (.864) in the majors. 

• 
His four shutouts are tied for the major-league lead. 

• 
He ranks fifth in the league with a 2.70 ERA and fourth in innings pitched with 209 2-3 and has held opponents to a cumulative batting average of .232, lOth lowest in the NL. 


Even Jones, who gets to see Maddux (17-4, 2.39 ERA) on a regular basis, would cast his Cy Young vote for Neagle. 
"I kind of sense that no mat­ter what Mad Dog (Maddux) does, he'll always be the front­runner," Jones said. "The fans will want to give it to him again, so Denny's got to go out there and win it. He's got that killer instinct, that tunnel vision, and he's really working his magic right now." 
Neagle's 19th victory might have been his most impressive. He allowed only three singles and a double to the Tigers, but erased two of the runners on double plays and wound up fac­ing only two batters above the minimum. He struck out six, walked none and kept Detroit off balance all night with his mystifying assortment of pitch­es. 
"Detroit had no idea what was coming," catcher Javy 
Lopez said. "He never throws the same pitch twice in a row." 
Neagle also went 2-for-3 at the plate, including his third career homer. 
''I've never been a strong fin­isher in the second half," said Neagle, whose previous best record was 16-9 last season. "I wanted to make a point this second half that I could finish out the year on a good note." 
Neagle's success requires a complex explanation. 
"It's hard to pick up the ball right away with his delivery," pitching coach Leo Mazzone said. "He's got a full assort­ment of pitches: fastball, change, curve and slider. Plus, he'II use his fastball on both sides of the plate, he'll use his curve on both sides of the plate and he'll use his change on both sides of the plate. He's got the full package." 
Still, Neagle is hardly one of the hardest-throwing pitchers around, with a fastball that rarely tops 90 mph. From the on-deck circle he appears hit­table, but batters usually head back to the dugout shaking their heads. 
Last week, after Neagle pitched a four-hitter over seven innings for his 18th victory, Houston manager Larry Dierker was perplexed. 
"Watching Neagle from the side, you wonder how he's won 18 games," he said. "Somehow he does." 
Even the Tigers, who ended Maddux's 10-game winning streak Monday night, were lured in by Neagle's facade of vulnerability. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame_ office, 314 LaForru~e and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Dead! me for next-day dasslfieds is 3p.m. All dassiEeds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
-- NOTICES THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MIN­UTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL WEEKE:NDS. LOVELY HISTORIC INN. FULL ELEGANT BREAK­FASTS. 4 GUEST ROOMS. A/C, CABLE TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED. $80-$100. CALL 616-695-6321 Tami's Typing Service. Will P/U & deliver. 256-9850. SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast home. ROOMS AVAILABLE Football weekends 219-674-0270 SEASONS INN Welcomes Motorhomes/Campers of all sizes. Spacious lots available. Reserve Now 219-674-0270. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight {closed home football Sat's) Phone 631-COPY Room Available Georgia Tech 9/5&9/6 Hampton Inn $140 nile Responsible Adults Only Call: Sarah (219) 634-4003 ILOST & FOUND I Lose a set of keys to room 407? ask Carlo at x1862 A PAIR OF RED PRESCRIPTION SUNGLASSES FOUND IN JULY WHILE WALKING AROUND ST. JOSEPH LI\KE ON ND CI\MPUS. COME IN TO THE OBSERVER OFFICE AT 314 LAFORTUNE OR CALL 631-7471 & ASK FOR SHIRLEY. Seniors! Did you lend a hat to a random stranger at camping out last Tuesday? To claim a (well­worn) white "PA. Andover Squash" hat, call Amber, 634-3719. WANTED PART-TIME WORK Local company filling 15 openings by sept. 7. Earn $10.25 starting. Flexible hours around classes. 282-2357 95' Alumni need many BC GA Tix. 246-0849-ask for Kristin BABYSITIER WANTED FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES CALL 2339728. ! ATHLETE'S DREAM! Have you always wanted a pro ath­lete's income? Rapidly growing health and nutrient co. is expanding locally. No phone interviews. 271-0912 ext 10  STUDENTS! Want to make 1-2k average monthly? Expanding International sports nutrient co. Looking for motivated students looking for flexible hours. No p;hone interviews. 271-0912 ext11 FLY 4 FUN! If you enjoy working with people, love to travel, and enjoy earning top $$ call 243-4946 SPORTS MINDED? Are you into the health & fitness fields? we're looking for team players to help with our expanding company. 243-4947 RecSports seeks Flag Football offi­cials for the upcoming season. Sports/officiating background is pre­ferred but not required. Call Mark Heitkamp at 631-6100 for clinic dates. BABYSITIER WANTED FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES $40.00 PER GAME. CALL 233-9728 WANTED: Lead guitarist to join set 5 piece band. Need at least 5 years experience. Call Shane: X1879 Need 2 GAs for Mich St & USC Call Jaret 233-5620 or Eric 4-0872 SELL ME YOUR CRAPPY BIKE, call john x-4197 FOR RENT WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 IT"S NOT TOO LATE­A newly remodeled 5 bedroom house is still available to rent for the !all semester. 2 lull baths, washers and dryer, huge rec room, security system. Call now to take a look 277-0636. AVAILABLE! 2BRM, 1 1/2 BA, full bsmt, priv. deck. 711 E. Washington. $500 mo. Dep nego, lease term nego. 288­3410 Bd & Brft all football weekends near campus call 219-272-5989 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107. 1-800-418-9487. NICE FURNISHED HOME GOOD AREA NORTH OF ND CLOSE 2773097 ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  FOR SALE Brass bed, queen size with orthope­dic Mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $225.00. 219-862-2082. USED TEXT BOOKS FOR SALE ­30%-40% DISCOUNTS. PANDORA'S BOOKSTORE 808 HOWARD STREET 86Mazda 626 runs good. New tires, exh, alter, brakes. $2200 obo. Chris x1512. Contemporary lakefront home for sale on Lake Michigan, 112 acre, $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1­888-225-RUTH. 2 FOBLL TIKTS. ONLY $600. CALL 2773254 OR6313912. MACINTOSH LC COMPUTER. $300 OBO. CALL BRYAN 4-1835 1993 Honda Sports Coupe Book Value $8900-Selling for $6000/0BO. 5Sp,Air,Tint,AIIoy Whls,Viper Alarm,lnfinity6Spr w/12Disc Changer. Taking Best Ofr by 9-15. Must Sell! Rob243.9277 89, Jeep WRANGER, Green. V. Clean. Like New. $4800 Or B/0 88,Chev Astro. V.Good Coond.$2999 Or B/0 86,Toyota Corlla, 4Drs.Great Cond. $2099 Or B/O.Call2773254. L.Mess. 88 Pontiac Grand Am/99,000 mi.. Black 2-dr with Cassette/Radio, air.cond., new trans., and good exterior/interior. Call Ray @ 232­5610. LAWRENCE A COLLECTABLES STORE AND SPORTS MUSEUM Decorate your room. den, o!!ice. Notre Dame items -jerseys, pro­grams, pins, etc. Sports and movie celebrities' autographs. Photos matted & framed. Early 1900's equipment-bats, gloves, hockey sticks, game-used shoes, etc. Downtown Mishawaka 109 LWE 257-0039 BUY AND SELL TICKETS I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO HOME GAMES.272-6551 Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W. Virginia tickets. Call at (609)259­1731 or during the day {201)316-4117. Leave message. NEED GEORGIA TECH TICKETS CALL AMY: 616-473-5825 WILL BUY 2 GA TX 4 GA TECH {312)744-8794 Trade:2 Ga. Tech. GAs. Need BC or USC.243-9028 WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC Family visiting-will pay big bucks for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028  IRISH FANS NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NO-STANFORD. CALL RICK AT 209-379-2249. DOES YOUR FAMILY OR FRIENDS NEED A PLACE TO STAY FOR THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME (9/20)? I HAVE 3 EXTRA ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE RESIDENCE INN ON NILES AVE. APPROX. 5 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. GREAT DEAL!!! FOR MORE INFO. CALL KESHA AT 634-1482. NEEDED: 1 Georgia Tech ticket Will pay $$! Call Brian 4-1680 Married Student Tickets for Sale. Call219-2736124 after6pm. I NEED 4 TICKETS TO MICHIGAN ST. CALL MICHELL'E AT 4-2377 Looking for GA's to Any & All NO Games! Will Beat Any Offer! Will Trade Any Home Game !or LSU. Call 634-4872 WANTED: 3 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE CALL 634-4196, LEAVE MESSAGE. I HAVE 2 GA TECH GA'S Looking to trade for 2 Mich. St. GA's, or any other GA's. Call Dan x1881 HELP! Need 2 tickets (stu. or ga) for Georgia Tech. Kelly 4-3738 Need 4 USC GAs. Will buy or trade 4 Ga. Tech. Call634-3806 MARRIED STUD. BOOK/ STUD. TICKETS FOR SALE. LEAVE MESSAGE 271-1567 G-TECH 2GA's for sale!\! 1-7747 GA and married student tickets for sale, call 273-4372. I NEED 3 STUD TIX FOR GT PLEASE CALL BRIAN LUCAS @288-2423. 2 GTech GA's 4 Sale Call4-4115 I need GA Tech tickets x2854 NEED MICH STATE TIX WILLING TO PAY CALL 634-0893 Need a pair of LSU tickets. Have a pair of USC, Michigan, or Stanford tickets to trade. Call901-755-4273. FOR SALE: 2 GA Georgia Tech tics. Call Kristin @ (201 )963-8863 and leave best offer. Man·i9d student ticket for sale 271­1715 after 7pm Looking to buy 1 Ga. Tech ticket. Call Chip @ 634-3101. I have a BIG Irish family I need tix home & away GA & student call 273-9249 ___________________,  NEED TO TRADE: I have A W.Va's and need 4 for Navy. Call Connie at 243-2794 NEEDED: Two Michigan State GAs. Will Pay $$$$. 273.5056 Need 2 GT tix Call Rob 271-6005 Need GT stud tix call Doug 243-2615 Desperate Dad has 2 tickets to G.Tech/ BC/ Navy/ W.V. Wants to TRADE for Mich. St. and USC so can bring family with! Call Casey 289-3349 Two married student tix !or sale. 271-1568 after 6pm I NEED GA's TO MICH. ST. CALL JIM AT 634-3985 2 Married Stu. Tickts. All Gams Or 1 by1. Call 277-3254 L.Mess. Tickets for sale. 234-4681 Need 2 GaTech Gas. Will pay top $. Call Matt x1-4378 before 5 or 232-0550 after 5. G-Tech GA tickets for sale 273-1997 FOR SALE GA tix for GaTech, BC, and West Va. 287-1449 Have BC & USC or$$ To trade for MSU tickets. Call243-4743, ask for Meaghan. NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE 232-0058 CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. BUYING BUYING BUYING N.D GAONLY SEASON TICKETS 277-1659 BUYING BUYING BUYING GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ED BY LOCAL COMPANY PLEASE CALL 273-6929 Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service. Call 234-5650. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 ND TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 FOR SALE N.D. G.A.'S 271-9412. WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526  I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia Tech and/or the Michigan State game!!! Please call Amy at 810-355-9140. I have 2 Georgia Tech GA's. Will exchange for 2 USC GA's. Call Rob h(214)351-6775 w(214)855-1180. I have BC GA's. Will trade for any game but WV. Call Jill {440)779-9691. I NEED USC AND BC GA'S CALL DAVE @ 634-4905 $$ 2 stud tix for sale. all home games. Call 4-3313 NO ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097 MARRIED STUD.T.BOOKS FOR SALE. 283-0920 Need 1 Mich. St. ticket Call Dave 4-2055 9/4-916 PERSONAL FREE FACIAL & MKOVR w/ Mary Kay Call Margrette 2845099 MEMORIAL AIDS QUILT COMING TO CAMPUS VOLUNTEERS NEEDED IF INTERESTED CALL ERIN AT 4-3857 Hi to all in the PBA CLASS OF 1998_ Pick up the OFF CAMPUS DIREC­TORY outside the '98 office door (213 LaFort.) Limit one per apart­ment or room. ************************************ ATIENTION: GAY. LESBIAN, and BISEXUAL STUDENTS, FACULTY and STAFF: New Year, New Night, New Leadership, New Attitude! I!! The ORIGINAL campus group will hold it's first Info Meeting on Wed. Sept. 10th, ?PM Our first Support Group Meeting: Wed. Sept 17th, 7PM Call 236-9661 for details! Bob Davie drinks Diet Coke ­how can we lose? Observer production goes by a lot faster when you've got the Billy Joel Chorus Line going. Buy Metamucil. Or you'll get cancer and die. Lost Keys? Call Dan @ 4-2486 Blind Student is hiring readers. Biology/Chemistry experience preferred. Call Tim @ 4-4681 1 Georgia Tech GA. Best offer x­2340 Do you need money? Sell your BC ticket. Call x-2340  
' \ i•  


Thursday, September 4, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page IS 
Of equal importance, while you're learning and achieving, we'll put all the strength of our industry-leading organization behind your own career development. With 12,500 Management Consultants delivering ideas and solutions from 89 offices worldwide, we provide an unparalleled world of resources and the opportunity to grow and learn with a proven leader in today's business. 
To arrange for a one~on-one interview or for more information, please contact: Catherine Romanek, Campus Recruiter, Ernst & Young UP, 233 SouthWacker Drive, Chicago, IL 60606; fax: (312) 879-3671; or E-mail: catherine.romanek®ey.com. Please visit our web 
site at: http://www.ey.com. No phone calls please .. · .. 
THERE IsN'TABusiNESS WE CAN'T IMPROVE TM 
S!/ ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
Erm1 & Y.rung LLP, an equal opportunity empkryer, vnlues the diversity of our workforce and the krul\uedge of our people. 
,. 

MANAGEMENT 
CONSULTING 
OPPORTUNITIES 
MEET WITH ERNST & YOUNG ON CAMPUS 
University of Notre Dame 
Presentation 9/1 0 Finance Club Career Night 9/11 Business Career Day 9/12 Industry Day 9/24 
St. Mary of the Woods College 
Interviews 10/7 
They're in touch, in transit and in demand ... on-site, on-line and on-the-move . . . improving businesses, envisioning future technologies and driving change ... thinking outside the box, designing solutions and delivering value to customers. 
They're Ernst & Young Management Consultants, and they're going places -making a global impact in one of the most dynamic fields of the 90s and beyond. 
As an Ernst & Young Management Consultant, you'll help companies from Fortune 1,000 giants to Silicon Valley start-ups explore new strategies, methoqs, markets and technologies ­long before others are even aware they exist. 

;... _j 
•Mus 

Hershiser winning 
National League Standings 
w L Pet. GB
streak still standing 
Associated Press interleague play 7-8 against the 86 53 .619 AL Central, had eight runners 
82 55 .599 3
PITTSBURGH in the first three innings but 
Omar Vizquel and Matt scored only twice. New York 75 62 .547 10Williams hit two-run homers in Eddie Williams had an RBI a five-run fourth inning to keep single in the first, but only after Montreal 69 68 .504 16 Orel Hershiser unbeaten since Al Martin grounded into a dou­
Philadelphia 52 82 .388 31 1/2
July 2 and the Cleveland ble play with two on and none Indians went on to beat out. Jason Kendall hit into a Pittsburgh 7-3 Wednesday double play in the second, and night. Shawon Dunston struck out Central Division 
The Indians won twice in the with the bases loaded following three-game series, the first Martin's RBI single in the third. between the bordering-state Tony Womack was 3-for-5 Houston 70 68 .507 teams in their 96 years togeth­and scored twice, but Mike 
Pittsburgh 69 70 .496 1 1/2
er in the majors. The crowd of Jackson struck him out to end 37,513 boosted the series atten­the eighth with runners on first St. Louis 64 74 :.464 6 dance to 126,191, the fourth and third and a run in. 
Cincinnati 60 76 .441 9
largest in Pirates history. Pirates reliever Jason ·. ::-­
The Pirates missed a chance Christiansen was ejected in the Chicago to return to the .500 mark by seventh after brushing back losing their seventh in nine Hershiser with a head-high 
West Division
games. fastball, then hitting him in the Hershiser (13-5} was in.trou­left thigh with the ensuing ble in each of the first three pitch. Hershiser had earlier hit 
Los Angeles 
innings and fell behind 2-0, but two Pirates batters. held on to win his sixth in a row 
San Francisco 
despite allowing eight hits over Astros 4 six-plus innings. Brewers 0 ·Colorado He hasn't lost in his last 10 
San Diego
starts and is 4-0 in five outings The first complete game of 
:~Z!::.::::: 

since coming off the disabled Ramon Garcia's major-league list Aug. 13. career couldn't have come at a season. We want to keep the 
Manny Ramirez added a solo better time for the Houston gap close with Cleveland and homer in the sixth, his 24th, off Astros. put some distance between us Esteban Loaiza (10-10}, a win-"This was pretty much a and Chicago. After the win last ner only six times in 16 deci-must-win for us," Jeff Bagwell night, we were at such a high sions since starting the season said after Garcia pitched a five-point. Now we're at such a low 4-0. hitter to beat the Milwaukee point." 
Loaiza retired the first nine Brewers 4-0 Wednesday night Garcia (6-8} struck out four batters he faced before falling and stop the Astros' six-game and walked four, sending apart after Bip Roberts singled losing streak. Milwaukee to just its third loss to start the fourth, his first hit Houston opened a 2 1/2-game in 11 games. He also singled in since being traded to the lead in the NL Central over sec-a run against the Brewers, the Indians on Sunday. ond-place Pittsburgh, which team he played for last season. 
Vizquel, whose failure to lost to Cleveland 7-3. "That didn't make it special," touch home plate Tuesday night "When you're in a hitting Garcia said. "It was big short-circuited a potential big slump like we've been, the best because we had lost six games first inning in a 6-4 Indians way to stop it is to have your in a row and because we are in loss, then hit a drive into the pitcher throw a shutout," first place." left field seats -his third Bagwell said. Coming in, Garcia had one homer and first since June 17. The second-place Brewers win in his previous six starts. 
Williams followed Jim dropped 3 1/2 games behind ''I'm really proud of him. I Thome's single and Dave the Indians in the AL Central. know he's been disappointed Justice's RBI double with his "We're not going to win all when I've taken him out in the two-run shot, his 29th of the our games and Cleveland's not seventh or eighth innings," season and his 17th in 269 going to win all theirs," Astros manager Larry Dierker career at-bats against Milwaukee manager Phil said. "He's got a big heart. He Pittsburgh. Williams has a 20-Garner said. "But you live and wants to stay in and go all the game hitting streak (29-for-84, die with these games late in the way.' 
All but two of the Indians' r;=

.345). ===========================~~~~~~~~::::::;;;;~~~::~~~~::::~~~~ 
sevenhitswereforextrabases.
The Pirates, who finished 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
SPRING BREAK 19 

... 
57 83 .407 14 
78 61 .561 76 62 .551 1 1/2 70 70 .500 8 1/2 65 74 .468 13 
*Updated as of Sept 2, 1997 


regi~ter for a fitneM cia~~ today! Plenty of ~pace~ are ~till available in ~tep, Lo Impact, Ni lnten~ity, Ab~ and Combo claMe~. find the ~chedule on the web @ www.nd.edu/ -re~port 
Contact 105965 for more info. 

WE.LCOM.E BA( STUDENTS! 
Parmesan Cheese Crust • Garlic Butter C Extra Pizza Sauce•Side of Banana Peppers Just Ask 
r----------------------------, 49

$3.0NLY :I 
:Ita I am & Cheese • Steak & Cheese• Veggie • Chicken Club : 
IPius Tax Where Applicable. Delivery Extra Off Campus. Excludes Other Offers I 
L----------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 4, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAll 
Ex-Notre Dame linebacker finds his niche in Iowa 

By GREG SMITH 
Associated Press Writer 

IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Jeff Kramer started his col­lege football career as a reserve middle linebacker at Notre Dame but will finish playing a new position at a new school. But that's not all. 
Kramer, the new starting right defensive end for the Iowa Hawkeyes, is finally happy. 
"Football isn't consuming all my thoughts now," Kramer said. "It seemed that when I was at Notre Dame, football was pretty much the most important thing to you. 
"Here, I look forward to com­ing to practice," he said. "I look forward to being around the coaches. It's a positive-type atmosphere. Coaches may get on you, but they're going to bring you right back up after you do wrong." 
A junior from Weatherford, Texas, Kramer played for Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz in 1994 as a freshman as well as the following year. 
After the 1995 season, in which he missed three games because of an injury, he knew South Bend was not for him. 
Holtz had managed to get him to visit South Bend and then asked him to avoid contact with any other coaches as well as skip any other recruiting trips. 
"Being young and wanting to do everything he wanted me to do, I didn't take my other visits and explore my options," Kramer said. "I was definitely eager to come and check out Iowa. 
"But I just didn't because I made that commitment (to Holtz) and I wanted to stick with it," he said. 
Kramer had to take a redshirt year last season after transfer­ring, and he has steadily moved up the depth charts this year as a defensive end. 
Coach Hayden Fry has pen­ciled Kramer in as the starter on the right side when the Hawkeyes entertain Northern Iowa this Saturday. 
Fry likes him so much he even paid him a Tim Dwight­type compliment, saying Kramer "has got that extra heart beat," a phrase usually reserved for Dwight. 
Kramer said Fry's philosophy is like a breath of fresh air. 

"Coach Fry is a player's coach. He's really concerned that the team is happy," Kramer said. "It's not so much as a football-football atmos­phere. It's a football-life atmos­phere. He teaches us a lot about lifP rather than being all business all the time." 
Inevitably, Kramer is asked to compare Fry and Holtz. 
"Coach Holtz is a good coach and he does a lot of things well, but coach Fry is more family atmosphere," he said. "He's a guy you can talk to. I don't ever worry about going up to coach Fry and saying, 'Hey, what's going on?' 
"Whereas coach Holtz, the only time you talk to him is unless you were in trouble," he said. 
Although he wasn't happy at Notre Dame, Kramer did say the experience was positive ­just like it's been at Iowa. 
"I learned a lot of things from Notre Dame, and a lot of things I learned at Notre Dame has made me the player I am today," he said. "And a lot of things that I've learned here are going to make me even bet­ter as a person and a player. 
A look into the lives of college football fanatics 
By DAWN FALLIK Associated Press Writer 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

They decorate their garages in AstroTurf, sit on toilet seats that play school anthems and refuse to schedule vacations between July and January. 
They are the die-hard col­lege football fans who live for Saturdays and can't live with­out their teams. 
"You don't go to weddings. You don't go to funerals," said Carol Collinsworth, a 49-year­old flight attendant from Atlanta who attends every Nebraska game, though she did not go to college in Lincoln. "You don't even dare die during football season." 
It used to be that fans would cheer for their team and per­haps buy a poster or two. But with musical Gator toilet seats and Texas A&M Aggie coffins, ly and watches the game on fans have turned fanaticism television in the motel. into a multimillion-dollar col­"We probably spend about lege football obsession. $15,000 a year on football. I 
Bob Billings knows the price don't really want to think of obsession. The 62-year-old about it," he said. retired Omaha banker has not "My wife is just as crazy missed a Nebraska football about it as I am, but the crazi­game in person since 1984 -est thing s.he 's ever done is and that includes an away marry me." game in Japan. But Barbara Sapp of 
His dog, Lady Husker, comes Gainesville, Fla., says along on road trips occasional-Nebraska's enthusiasm for the 
Deloitte & Touche On Campus 
Which Big Six firm offers the best opportunities for growth, challenge, and advancement? 
At Deloitte & Touche LLP, our investments in our people and the technology they use is what distinguishes us from o.ur competition. The individuals in our Solutions Group are business advisors to rapidly growing middle-market and niche companies. 
We're looking for bright, eager individuals with a variety of skillsets across a broad range of disciplines--individ1~;.is who excel in college and life and are eager to contribute, grow, and face the challenges of our practice. We'll be on campus on September 4th and September 5th to present the Solutions Group to you. Solutions is a group of Consulting professionals dedicated to providing cost-effective solutions that result in measur­able value and lasting change. Our Group services three broad areas: Information Management, Financial Management, and Operations Management. Come join us for refreshments and hear more about the great opportunities Deloitte & Touche offers. You'll also have the opportunity 
to speak with hiring managers.  
Thursday, September 4  Friday, September 5  
Presentation to Undergraduates  Presentation to MBA Students  
The Center for Continuing Education, Room 100  MBA Lounge  
7pm  I 2:30pm  

Please join us September 4th or 5th. If you can't attend, but are interested in the opportunities we can offer and want more information, send your resume and a letter of interest to: Deloitte & Touche LLP, Dept. LHIND, Two Prudential Plaza, 180 N. Stetson, Chicago, IL 60601; FAX 312/946-2778. Please be sure to visit us on the internet at: www.dttus.com 
Deloitte &: Touche is an equal opportunity employer. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, veteran's status or disabilities. We are pleased to have been recognized by Workforce magazine and Working Mother magazine as an organi­zation committed to creating innovative work/life balance programs, and by ComputerWorld and Infonnation Week for use of technology in the workplace. 
•

0-·i''.'\ ~~~500
"'~ ..Q 


Cornhuskers is but a small corn kernel compared with the big fish in the Sunshine State. 
When Sapp's son moved out, she turned his room into a Gator shrine, complete with a toilet seat that plays the "Gator Chomp" when occu­pied. It's similar to the theme from "Jaws." 
"It's like we bow to coach Steve Spurrier, that's how important he is," Sapp said. 
Being true to your school can be a good emotional out­let, sports psychologists say, but knowing when to draw the line is very important. 
"Certainly you should give it your all during the football season, but when that season's over, you need to get a life," said Boston University profes­sor Leonard Zaichkowsky, who teaches sports psychology. 
Even football players say the adoration can be a little much. 
"One lady asked if she could kiss my stomach ... but I felt kind of weird," said Nebraska's Grant Wistrom, who denied the request. 
Most schools are open to licensing their insignias on items ranging from lingerie to cookies to Barbie dolls, and they get about 7 percent of the -­sales. But a request to license condoms raised some eye­brows. 
"If our product breaks down, we could be held responsible because we've given our stamp of approval on it," said Vince Sweeney, associate athletic director for the University of Wisconsin­Madison. 
Companies look for schools with a strong fan base when developing new products. 
When USAopoly began developing a university-based Monopoly game, the company. looked at schools such as Ohio State, Michigan and Nebraska. 
Officials at several schools, including Georgia Tech, Florida and, of course, Nebraska, said the strangest request they received was putting a logo on a tombstone. 
The requests are granted on a case-by-case basis. 
• NFL 

Concussion may keep Young out 


Strickland charged with DUI 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press Writer 
SANTA CLARA. Calif. 
Steve Young's latest concus­sion could keep him on the sidelines this week, and he acknowledged Wednesday that he can't take many more shots to the head and continue play­ing football. 
The two-time NFL MVP who led the 49ers to a Super Bowl title in 1994 sustained his third concussion in 10 months in San Francisco's season­opening loss Sunday at Tampa Bay. After an examination on Tuesday, Young's neurologist recommended the quarterback sit out Sunday's game at St. Louis. 
Young, who was kneed in the head by Bucs linebacker Hardy Nickerson in the second quarter, came back to play the final quarter against Tampa Bay and initially was listed as probable for the St. Louis game. 
He was downgraded to ques­tionable Wednesday. With backup Jeff Brohm hampered by a chipped bone in the mid­dle finger of his passing hand along with a lower back injury, all signs point to first­round draft pick Jim Druckenmiller making his first start at quarterback for the 49ers. 
If Druckenmiller does, it will 
be without the benefit of go-to 
receiver Jerry Rice, who is 
expected to miss the rest of 
the regular season after seri­
ously injuring his knee soon 
after Young was staggered in 
the Tampa Bay game. 
Offensive coordinator Marty 
Mornhinweg said the decision 
on who will start at quarter­
back hasn't been made yet 


and described both Young and Brohm as "day to day." 
However, Druckenmiller took all the snaps with the first team at the 49ers' walk­through on Wednesday with Young taking part in some scout team plays. Before head­ing to the practice field, Young acknowledged the repeated concussions concerned him. 
"I know this cannot continue and I can't keep getting hit in the head and continue to play football," Young said. "But I still feel like I want to play and there's a lot of professional opinion, that with rest, you can continue to play. That's kind of where we are now." 
Young said he took the rec­ommendation of neurologist Dr. Joseph Lacy seriously. 
'I feel good," Young said. "I feel like I would do almost anything to help the 49ers win. Certainly, as you know, we've talked about this, at some points ad nauseum, about how concerned we are and how concerned I am. 
"I've talked to old 49ers, old college friends, coaches, fami­ly and everyone else trying to get a handle on exactly what we're facing. And you know the concern for me is not only for just for the near future but for my longterm health. Those are key issues for me. I intend to have another great career doing something else and I'm going to need all my senses to do that. So it's a concern of mine." 
Injuries have forced Young 
to miss all or parts of 17 of his 
past 36 games since 1995. He 
had two concussions in a 
three-game span last season 
and also has dealt with a neck 
sprain, a shoulder injury that 
required surgery, a groin 
strain and three cracked ribs. 
CANDAX McNAIR PRoGRAM 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WITH PRoF. MARIO BoRELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1997 6:3oP.M. 
CusHING AuDITORIUM 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION CoLLEGE STUDENTS ON FINANCIAL Am OR FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS (BLACK, HISPANIC, NATIVE AMERICAN) 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING 

~Rudy Rallyl 
( a pep rally and movie.. I for the little guy ) I 
This weekend's kickoff to I the Bob Davie era is against • Georgia Tech, the only team Rudy 
1tl 
ever faced on the gridiron. 
CELEBRATE the reunion with a I Friday night I post-pep rally, Rudy Rally. 1 
DRESS UP like your 1 favorite Rudy character ~ and win FREE Cinema At The Snite ,, 
Passes Recite lines from the movie 1 during the screening, I CREER out loud, I and meet some of this year's 1 walk-ens from the · 1 Notre Dame football team. 1 
Friday Sept.5th, 9:00 p .m. i Cinema at the Snite I 
sponsored by ND Communication ~ Theatre I admission free I
··:·:·:a·:·:·:·:a:·:·:·:A:·:·:·:a·:·:·:·.a·:·:·:·:a:·:·:·:A.'·:·:·:a·:·:·:·:a:·:·:·:a:·:·:·:a·:·:·:·a:·:·:·:a:·:·:·*·:·:·:·a·:·:·:·:a:·:·:·:A.x·:·:a:·:·:·:·a·:·:·:·:a:·:·:·:a:-:·:·:a·:·:·:·:a:·:·:·:a:·:·:.:a:·:·:·:·a·:·:·:·:.a: :·:..:·:·:·::a·:·:·>:a.·:·:·:-:a:·:·:·=-·=·=·=·• :-:·;&:·:·:·:A:·:·:·:~ 
Free Public Seminar 
Mind/Body and ;:li;!J\\iiri· Spirituality in Medicine: ANew Frontier With 
Herbert Benson, M<D. Sept. 11, 8p.m., . · Joyce Center, 
University of Notre Dame. Free Parking 

techniques. nutrition. exercise and cognitive therapies along with standmd medical practices. Dr. Benson is the author of "The Relaxation Response." and several other books. His latest work is "Timeless Healing: The Power and Biology of Belief .. Join us at 8 p.m. on September 11 and find out how to use your mind/bodY and spiritual powers. 
@ 
Saint Joseph's Mind/Body Medical Institute
.r 
80 I E. LaSalle Ave. • South Bend. IN 466 I 7 239-6107 A Member of Sa1nt Jo>eph·s Care Group and Holy Crms Health System 
By JENNIFER BATOG 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
Rod Strickland of the Washington Wizards was released from jail Wednesday after his arrest on charges of drunken driving and disorderly conduct. 
The 31-year-old point guard appeared briefly in court and faces trial Jan. 21. 
Strickland's lawyer, Billy Martin, said his client had been treated "unfairly" and should not have been jailed overnight. 
"I think he was charged as a result of driving an expensive Mercedes-Benz," said Martin, adding Strickland will plead innocent. " ... He was charged because of who he is. Most peo­ple who are arrested and charged with DUI or refusing to take a Breathalizer are released from the station." 
Police said Strickland was was stopped early Wednesday after making an illegal left turn in downtown Washington and became a "little disorderly." He is also charged with failing to show his driver's license. Strickland refused a sobriety test. Wizards general manager Wes Unseld, who has not spo­ken with his player, said the matter is not one the team would "take lightly." 
"Until we have further infor­mation surrounding these events, we will have no other comment," he said. 
Strickland pleaded guilty in April 1996 to hitting a former girlfriend. 
He was acquitted of a battery charge filed in 1994 when he and a teammate got in a shov­ing match with a truck driver in a Chicago parking lot. 
Strickland was a first-round draft pick of the Knicks in 1988. After two seasons in New York he was traded to San Antonio. He left the Spurs in a dispute with management and signed as a free agent with Portland. 
Meet Herbert Benson. M.D.. founder of the Hmvmd Mind/Body Medical Institute. and explore his pioneering mind/body approach to medical treatment. 
Dr. Benson is here to celebrate the opening of the 
new Saint Joseph's Mind/Body Medical Institute. 
Mind/Body medicine combines relaxation-response 
Thursday, September 4, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
lnfonnatlon Thursday, Sep-tember 4 5:00-7:30pm.Lafortune Ball McGlinn Hall Dedication , 
Picnic and Dl~$$1on for 
sunday. september 7 12:30pm Log(ifi~qfll Mlsa en Esp<$01 (Spailhill 
Sunday, Sep~  
1:30pm Keo  
Rejoice! Black  .  .  
Sunday, September 7  •·  •.  
4:00pm Badin Chapel  ·  

Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 6 
half hour after game Rev. Frank Quinlivan, C.S.C. Sunday, September 7 8:00a.m. Rev. Frank Quinlivan, 
10:00 a.m. Most Rev. Joseph A.·· •. · Homilist: Rev. Frank 
at Stepan Center 
Saturday, September 6 45 minutes after game Rev. JameshRahi11y at Keenan-Stanford Saturday, S:J,tember 6 half hour after game Sunday, September 7 12:00 nodi1fi'1:1F Rev. 
WELCOME... BACK! 
This is "Considerations," Campus Ministry's weekly contribution to your required reading. We consider it an important opportunity for us to inform, engage, and even mildly entertain the wider university community. In addi­tion to this weekly column, you will find on this page every­thing there is to know about the current events sponsored by the Office ofCampus Ministry. 
We are located in several areas on the campus and would encourage any or all ofyou to visit our offices any time, if for nothing else than an M&M fix now and then. We have offices in the Concourse of the Hesburgh Library, in the North end (entrance) of Badin Hall, in the LaFortune Student Center, and at the Fischer Graduate Residences Community Center. Stop by any time ifyou have any questions at all regarding our programs or ser­vices. Any of the offices will be happy to direct you to whomever may know most about that in which you're inter­ested. If nothing else, stop by and pick through our volumi­nous literature on the many programs which we offer and to which you are welcome. 
Our "Welcome ... Back!" is intended to address all, new as well as returning members of this community. Notre Dame is only all that it can be when we are all here together. Those of us who live on campus year round welcome the return of all ofyou. There is an appropriateness to the hus­tle and bustle which happens when we are all gathered in this place. Oh, we might have appreciated the solitude for a while but it doesn't take long for one to realize that this uni­versity was built for a purpose (other than construction!). It is a gathering place for intellectual conversation, inquiry and discovery; for spiritual challenge, growth and develop­ment; and for service to the larger community for the build­ing of the kingdom of God. Along with the academic com­ponent, we believe that Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns and the residential nature of this university play an integral role in the Catholic education of the men and women of Notre Dame. They are all pieces in the larg­er puzzle which is Notre Dame, and which makes us unique among universities in this country. 
The team in Campus Ministry would urge you to join with us, and with our colleagues at the Center for Social Concerns and with the residence hall staffs, in our collective journey offaith. The opportunities for involvement are many. Campus Ministry programs are intended to engage all members of this community and it is our hope that all would feel welcome joining us. We have become convinced over time that the fullness of one's Notre Dame experience depends on one's willingness to enter into dialogue with the larger questions offaith and to give oneself in service to the larger community. We are here to help you do just that. 
Know, again, of our welcome. If there is anything that 
we in Campus Ministry can do for you, please call us. And 
join us, ifyou will, in the building of the kingdom of God 
right here at Notre Dame. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

• COllEGE FOOTBALL 

Thundering Herd prepare for test against Cadets 
f-AA champs to face Army on Saturday 
By MATT HARVEY 

Associated Press Writer 
HUNTINGTON, W.Va. 
Army's option running attack is an oddity in Division I-A foot­ball. But for the Cadets' next opponent. Marshall, the option, and the wishbone formation featured by Army, are no big surprise. 
As a Division I-AA team in 1996, Marshall faced the wish­bone or the option in five differ­ent games, against Western Kentucky, The Citadel, 
.-.. Delaware, Georgia Southern and VMI. And at 15-0 and I-AA cham­pions last season, the Thundering Herd obviously had 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLlEYBALL 
Defense proves too much for Belles 
By ANGELA OLSEN 
Saim Mary's Sports Editor 

A m()re experien(;ed Manchester College volleyball team proved too mueb tor Saint Mary's to handle last night. The Belles lost their sea­son opener 5-15, 16·14, 5-15, 10-15. 
''It was tp~ir experiencethat. 
· beat us;'! said Saint M<l,ry's head coach Jenny Joyce, "arid unfortunately experience isn) anything you can teach." Saint Mary's saw strong play from senior middle hitter 
plenty of success against those teams. 
"If you can stop the fullback early ... don't let them establish that, you 'II do pretty good," said Marshall defensive line­man B.J. Cohen. 
Of course, Army is not to be mistaken for a I-AA team. Army's players are obviously better, Herd players say. 
They also are very disciplined in running their offense, plus have a nice variety of plays. 
Marshall's familiarity with the option and wishbone also counts as a disadvantage in one way, coach Bob Pruett said. 
''I'm sure they've got our Georgia Southern and Western Kentucky film in there," Pruett said. "They have some idea how we'll deal with it." 
While Army still is running the same offense that took it to a bowl game last season, and still has fullback Joe Hewitt 
Interested in planning the activities for your class? 
Freshman Class Board Elections Coming Soon ... 
Mandatory Informational Meeting September 8 & 9 at 7:00pm In Haggar Parlor 
g'e 7/teul 
the game with seven $olo stuffed blocks. "Betsy had a great blocking game. She was .. a roo.f;j (:Qll:ltnented J ~; Sophoniore Jayne Oz ... .. ..· • 
ished .with three stuffed 
blocks. 
Freshman setter Ashley 
Uebelhor added 23 assists. 
Manchester's upperclassmen 
lineup ~nd gr~at defense ~al" 
lenged<tpt} Belles.·throug}l()ut 
the night. . 
"They were scrappy;" said 
Connolly. :'They picked up a 
lot of balls; It was our first 
game. s<> w~ have some glitch­
• 
(839 yards rushing in '96), the triggerman, quarterback Ronnie McAda, is gone. 
McAda finished with 1,703 yards rushing and 2,333 pass­ing in his career. 
Last year's backup, Adam Thompson, started two games when McAda was injured, throwing for 133 yards and rushing for 178 in those games. Thompson, a junior, has battled sophomore Johnny Goff for the starting spot. 
Marshall's players and coach­es aren't quite sure who to expect, but they also say it shouldn't matter that much. 
"We expect a lot of running, not much passing," said line­backer Larry McCloud. 
"I figure as long as we play disciplined defense, we'll be fine," Cohen said. 
Marshall is at Army on Saturday. Kickoff is about 1 

p.m. Courtesy of Army Sports Information 
Army will have to run its famous wishbone without Ronnie McAda . 
For Students, and Families 
OM PAGNA 
presents .. UNDERSTANDING FOOTBALLII 
6 Monday 
Seminar topics:Evenings, 7·9p.m. Offense, Defense, starting the Kicking Game, September 15th ··· Demonstrations Jordan & Particpation 
TOM PAGNA 
Former Offensive Backfield Coach 
for Reservations Call 
Sponsored 219/233-3486 by Home Fe $60 
Guest speakers: 
BJbDavle, 
Coach of the Fighting Irish 
·.·· ·\It'Iet... a.~ 
The ••• 



____, .
-~~-~-----~­
• 
~ 
Thursday, September 4, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
•MlB 
-·­
Clark's big bat leads to Tigers' rout of Braves 


American League Standings  
w l Pet. GB East Division Baltimore 85 50 .629 -New York 79 57 .581 6l/2 Boston 67 72 .482 20 Toronto 65 72 .474 21 Detroit 65 73 .471 21 1/2 Central Division Cleveland 71 .530 -63 Milwaukee 70 67 .511 2 1/2 Chicago 69 69 .500 4 Minnesota 57 79 .419 15 Kansas City 56 79 .415 15 1/2 West Division Seattle 76 62 .551 -Anaheim 74 65 .532 21/2 Texas 65 73 .471 11 Oakland 53 85 .384 23 *Updated as of Sept 2, 199;  

first 15-game winner since Bill Gullickson in 1991. Blair has won 11 of his last 13 decisions. 
Clark, who had only two homers in his previous 118 at­bats, hit a run-scoring double in the first and an RBI single in the third to give him 100 RBis for the first time. 
But the 6-foot-7 switch-hitter wasn't through, slamming a three-run homer in the fourth to highlight a six-run inning and equal his career high for RBis in a game, set June 21 game against Boston. 
Rookie Deivi Cruz hit a two­run homer in the fourth, only his second of the season, and Bobby Higginson had two RBis. 
The Braves, who had a major league-leading 3.15 ERA entering the game, gave up double-figure runs for only the fourth time in 139 games. It was the most runs against Atlanta since a 16-8 loss at Colorado last Sept. 12 -a game that Smaltz also lost. 



Smaltz's childhood dream was to pitch for Detroit, but the Tigers showed little respect for the personal signif­icance of the moment or the statistics which showed Smoltz (13-11) on his best roll of the season. 
The 1996 Cy Young Award winner had allowed three earned runs or fewer in nine consecutive starts, and he didn't have an outing shorter than five innings all year. 
The Tigers, coming off a four-hit shutout loss to Denny Neagle, got to Smoltz for two runs and three hits in the first inning, added another run in the third and knocked him out of the game in the fourth. 
Marcus Jensen led off with a single to center -his first hit with the Tigers -and Cruz followed with a homer into the first row of the left-field bleachers to push the Tigers to a 5-2 lead. 
Brian Hunter doubled, Damion Easley reached on a fielder's choice and Higginson hit a run-scoring single to right, prompting Atlanta man­ager Bobby Cox to r.eluctantly emerge from the dugout to remove Smnltz. 
Kerry Ligtenberg came in from the bullpeQ. but Clark ruined that strategy by slam­ming a drive about 20 rows deep in right for his 29th homer, giving Detroit a 9-2 lead. 
Detroit added three more runs in the sixth, one scoring on Juan Encarnacion's first major-league hit. 
Randall Simon, starting at first for the Braves with Fred McGriff nursing a sore elbow, also had his first hit in the big leagues, finishing 2-for-3 with an RBI. Greg Colbrunn home­red in the ninth. 
dining halls, and with your dorm athletic commissioners. The cost is $6 in advance and $8 on-site for students, and $10 for alumni, faculty, staff, and community in advance and $12 on the day ofthe race. 
Off;..Campus Football ­Anyone interested in playing interhall football for the off­>campus team should contact 
Bill McCartey at 273-1929. 

Indoor and Outdoor Track 
and Field -Any prospective 
athletes must attend a meeting 
.. 
at 4 p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 
10. in the Loftus Auditorium. 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
.CARDINAL O'HARA LECtrtTRE.SERilH6t ON BUSINESS ETHTGS 

]. NEIL STALTER VICE PRESIDENT OF PUBLICADl~.f\IRS (§%TIRED) CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY··'·!'!. 
Managing The Corporate <:;:risis: The Ultimate Test OflusinesS Ethics 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4:A,T 7:30 PM;1 JORDAN AUDITORIUM, COLL GE OF .AiMINISTRATION 
__..._ 
Students for Responsible Business 
j 
I I I 
I I I 
I I 
I 
l 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

Tony Clark broke out of a power slump with a homer and five RB!s as the Detroit Tigers routed John Smoltz and Atlanta 12-4 Wednesday, the most runs scored against the Braves this season. 
Smoltz, a Michigan native 
who began his professional career with the Tigers before a 1987 trade to Atlanta, lasted only 3 1-3 innings, his shortest outing in more than two years. He surrendered eight runs and 10 hits. 
Willie Blair (15-6), continu­ing his remarkable comeback from a broken jaw, limited the Braves to eight hits over seven innings to become Detroit's 
l 
1 
__:J 
• U.S. OPEN 

Rusedski upsets Krajicek 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
So who are these mysterious survivors on the men's side of the draw at the U.S. Open? 
Greg Rusedski introduced himself Wednesday with a 7-5, 7-6 (7-5) 7-6 (8-6) victory over Richard Krajicek in the quar­terfinals. That subtracted one of the remaining mystery men. Two others played Wednesday night with No. 15 seed Petr Korda going against Jonas Bjorkman. 
The other men's quarters scheduled for Thursday matched Magnus Larsson against No. 13 Patrick Rafter and old pal Michael Chang, seeded No. 2, against No. 10 Marcelo Rios. With just three seeds left in the final eight, the tournament matched an Open record established in 1994. 
On the women's side, No. 6 seed Lindsay Davenport advanced to the first Grand Slam semifinal of her career, defeating doubles partner Jana Novotna 6-2, 4-6, 7-6 (7 -5). Later Wednesday, in another matchup of doubles partners, No. 1 seed Martina Hingis played No. 10 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario with the winner advancing to the semis against Davenport. 
Rusedski and Krajicek con­
.. 
-
ducted a big serve showdown at Arthur Ashe Stadium, matching power shots as stiff winds whipped around them. Going into the match, they were first and third in the speed serve standings, Rusedski reached 142 mph-the fastest ever recorded at the Open -and Krajicek was at 139. Krajicek boomed 10 aces to just two for Rusedski but managed to break the left-hander just once. 
"You both play with the wind," Krajicek said. "I got the break in the first game. Instead of consolidating, I gave it back. That's basically where disaster started." 
Rusedski, a transplanted Canadian now living in Britain who will turn 24 on Saturday, wore a black mourning ribbon on his right shoulder in memo­ry of Princess Diana. He came into the Open with a career­best ranking of No. 20 that will improve considerably after his performance here. 
He won the last two sets of the tight match on tiebreaks, finishing with match point on his serve, the place a player with his booming shot wants to be. When Krajicek's return soared out of bounds, Rusedski thrust both arms in the air as his unlikely run at the Open continued. 
"It's so hard to believe," he said. "At the end, I got a little bit nervous. I missed a few shots and hesitated. Then I brought it back and won. 
''I'm really pleased. All the hard work is finally paying off." 
When top-seeded Pete Sampras washed out against Korda at the beginning of the second week, it left the men's side of the Open wide open. Sampras anointed Chang and unseeded Andre Agassi as the likeliest players to succeed. 
Agassi lasted only one more day before he tumbled out of the field on the same day that Chang barely survived a gruel­ing five-set match against Cedric Pioline. 
That brought the Open to the quarterfinals with eight players still swinging who are more likely to show up in a tennis Who's He rather than a Who's Who. 
Among them, they owned just two Grand Slam champi­onships. Krajicek won Wimbledon two years ago but arrived at the Open unseeded. Chang burst on the tennis scene when he won the French at the age of 17 in 1989. He hasn't won any Slams since. 
•MlB 

Baseball discusses new scheduling 
By MIKE NADEL Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Baseball's realigment committee said Wednesday it plans to push for a plan with 16 teams in one league, 14 in the other and unbalanced schedules starting next season. 
"The real goal isn't to realign. The real goal is to come up with very efficient scheduling which would make the season more meaningful," realignment-committee chairman John Harrington said Wednesday after his group met with the sport's ruling execu­tive council. 
"Due to the complexities of scheduling ... 16-14 is probably what we would come out with," said Harrington, the CEO of the Boston Red Sox. "And all of our teams want unbalanced scheduling." 
Most recent plans have placed 16 teams in four NL divisions and 14 clubs in three AL divisions. Several dubs would have to change leagues to make for good geographic matchups. 
Acting commissioner Bud Selig reiterated that with Tampa Bay and Arizona joining the major leagues as expansion teams next season, the time for change is now. 
Selig and Harrington favor radical geographic realignment in which 15 teams would switch leagues. "They talk about, 'Those dopes don't know how to grow the rev­enues,' " Selig said. ' 
'Well, the schedule's the most important marketing factor you have. And if you're not sensitive to that and try to do the very best ... you're denying your sport the opportunity to grow. 
Students: 

Don't miss these important meetings planned by the Student Activities Office: 
Food Service Training: 
*If you plan to run a football concession stand or hav.e f~od at an event, at least one representative of your orgamzat1on must attend one of these training sessions* 
Thursday, 9/4 at 5:30p.m., Foster Room Wednesday, 9/10 at 5:00p.m., Montgomery Theatre 
Social and SYR Chair Training Monday, 9/8 at 6:00p.m., Montgomery Theatre 
Vendor Fair 
*Meet vendors who have products for your concession stands or fund raisers and the latest in imprinted items* Monday, 9/8 at 7-10 p.m., Ballroom 
Clubs and Organizations Meetings 
*Attendance at one of these meetings is suggested for all clubs and organizations. You are encouraged to.attend the meeting which represents your group; however, 1f ~ different time works better, please attend that meetmg Wednesday, 9/10 at 8:00p.m. (Special Interest clubs) 
Thursday, 9/11 at 4:00 p.m. (Ethnic clubs) 
Thursday, 9/11 at 6:00p.m. (Academic clubs) Monday, 9/15 at 4:00p.m. (Athletic clubs) Monday, 9/15 at 6:00p.m (Social Service clubs) 
These meetings will be held in the Montgomery Theatre 
for infonnation about these meetings or for assistance w;th your club, organization orhall cotneit contact the Student Activities Office at 631-1309 or stop by our office at 315 Lafortune Student Center 
Women's Volleyball 
jVlonday 

Sept. 8th ~pm ~ 
~ 

""'= 
vs. Florida 
• 

