
Wednesday, February 5, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 84 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Milos/McKeough sweep presidential bid 
By LORI ALLEN hands. Saint Mary's News Editor "I understand all too well the anticipa­tion of the results, but I also fee1 that all 
They came. They ate. They voted. three tickets are extremely qualified," Yesterday afternoon marked election day said Jen Ligda, Elections Committee on campus for the Saint Mary's College member. "Regardless of the results, all community. Students milled in numbers the women will continue to support Saint 
in the dining hall, the --------------Mary's through other common question heard • Voter turnout reaches ventures," Ligda 
at many a table being, added. "Did you vote yet?" high... see story page 6 Over 54 percent of 
The candidates sat in anticipation as their full-stomached peers on their way to class, marked off their choice for the next stu­dent body president and vice president. 
"It was exciting at lunch to see the cur­rent student body president organizing the lines as she urged the freshman to vote," said junior Sarah Bandera. 
The three tickets running for the posi­tions, Meghan McNally/Anne Parente, Lara Becker/Jen Cervantes, and Nikki Milos/Lori McKeough could do nothing but wait. With campaigning and the debates behind them, it was out of their 
the student body 
turned out to make the decision, and they chose Milos/McKeough to represent them as the next student body president and vice-president. 
Milos/McKeough won the election in a· landslide, capturing 70 percent of the votes. 
"I am both excited and nervous at the same time. It's going to be a great year; we hope to make it fun and memorable," said Milos. 
see ELECTION I page 6 
Ca01puses tackle eating disorders 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
NewsWrirer 
If she is not the girl sitting next to you in class, then she is the one at the Athletic Facility working out for two hours every day, or the one you never see in the dining hall any more. 
Her name is Megan, and she is a junior this year. As a freshman, she worried about doing well in her classes, about playing volleyball, and going to the freshman class formal; she thought she was normal, but her friends thought she had an eating dis­order. 
"I think that I always wanted to be smaller than what I was," she said. "All through high school I was a perfection­ist; I was involved in every­thing... I was in leadership positions, I was in the band, I was homecoming queen." 
Dreading the "Freshman Fifteen" weight gain, Megan started exercising daily to keep her weight steady after volley­ball season. She spent extra hours running in the morning, and started staying away from the dining hall more and more; there was a period of a few months where she was eating breakfast and nothing else. 

"At first, it just seemed like a 1ifesty le change," she said, "and then my friends started to notice that they weren't see­ing as much of me." Megan saw nothing wrong with trying to eat healthy and watch her calorie intake, mostly because she had always done so as an athlete. 
When she went home for her first Christmas Break, she tried to act normally in front of her parents. She cut back on 
see ANOREXIA I page 4 
Teaching for America 

The Observer/Brat Hogan 
Kira Lodge, NO '95, shares her experiences as a teacher in the Teach For America program. 
See story, page 3 

• ElECTION RESUlTS 

Milos/McKeough 

'lam both excited and nervous at the same time. It's going to be a great 
I 
McNally/ 

Parente LBecoker/ year; we hope to make it 
3% Cervantes fun and memorable.' Abstain 

Student, mother tell realitY behind anorexia. 
By BRJDGET O'CONNOR 
Assisranr News Editor 

Describing the factors and experi· ences that led her to become anorex~ ic,. freshman JoAnna Deeter shared her;;~tory in a ~res~~tati()t1. enti~led "How to Help aFriend/ Loved One 
· With a,n ~atit;tgf>ro~~~pv;
''[Anorexia] becomes. 
friend," s~e said. ''fm.a)er
born, ·strqng· willed. p~rsqfi;' 
even took over me.'' ·· · · · · Deeter; a. successful ¢ runner, explained -that· 
wa~)~rgely th~.xes 
···be as hell.lthy aspd lete and to loo~ like the ~tin~ef$ on •• ~J;:~over.pf munner~ .W():Iq~i)i't!l~ga.., : 
.v:• 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton, declaring that Americans "want us to be partners, not partisans," chal­lenged Congress in his State of 
the Union address Tuesday night to give the n at i on·' s schools a big spending increase while balanc­ing the bud­

get by 2002. 
Recycling popular ideas from his campaign, Clinton identified education as the top priority of' his second term and said · 
Nikki Milos 


ND Security recovers stolen sculpture piece 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 
Ten days after the land­mark modern sculpture located between O'Shaughnessy and Fitzpatrick halls was van­dalized and its arrow stolen, the arrow was recovered Monday night. 
The arrow, found at 
11:45 p.m. on the steps of Haggar Hall, suffered some damage, according to Father Austin Collins, associate professor of art. 
"The artist [John Mischler] is going to have to re-do it," Collins said. "It has a hole in it and it's scratched." 
The kinetic mechanism, which allows the arrow to rotate from its position atop the sculpture, was also damaged, Collins said. 
Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security, said the arrow was discovered by a student, who notified 

The Observer/Katy Soby 
The missing arrow from the sculpture ''Turns About" was recovered Monday. 
Notre Dame Security. 
The incident remains under investigation, Hurley said. 
The artwork, titled "Turns About," is on loan to the University from Mischler, a professor from Goshen College. Mischler will be on campus Thursday to assess the damage, Collins said. 


Clinton speech focuses on education 
Americans should have "the best education in the world." He challenged communities to mea­sure their students against national -standards to lift achievement in math and sci­ence. 
The president's proposals would boost education spending by 20 percent, to $51 billion for fiscal 1998. The increase ­including the cost of tax breaks for college -would total 40 per­cent by 2002. 
Two weeks after his second inauguration, the president lec­tured the Republican-led Congress to "complete the unfin­ished business of our country" -balancing the budget, enact­ing long-stalled campaign finance reform and reopening last year's welfare law to restore benefits to legal immigrants. 
In a 60-minute speech, his tone was both conciliatory and challenging, calling for racial and political harmony but also pressuring Congress for action. He was interrupted by applause 
• See tomorrow's Observer for news analysis 
69 times. 
As Clinton stood before a joint session of Congress, the nation's attention was distracted by news of a verdict in the O.J. Simpson civil trial. He completed his remarks just as the verdict was 
see CLINTON I page 4 

--~ 
-----·-------­

-~---~------~----­
....-·· ' 

I 
I 
I 
f 
; 
page 2 


Welcon1e to Jabba's Hut 
"J.P., you have the-------­
"clicker" don't you? Angela Cataldo 
Turn up the volume." Assistant Saint Mary's 
"Sure, I'll turn it up, as News Editor 
long as Kim tosses me 
the Pringles." 
(phone rings) 

"Hello? No, this is Tiffany. Hold on.-Hey, 
Melissa? Pass the phone to Anne, will you?" 
"Yeah, give it here. Urn, Emily, since you're 
already over there, can you get me a Coke? 
It started harmless enough, as most social 
systems seem to begin. My roommate sat on 
her bed one Saturday afternoon with snacks 
and the cordless phone within her reach; I 
was on the couch with remote control duty. 
We soon realized that we had no reason to 
move -I could easily grab any snacks from 
a shelf by the couch and Corrie, my room­
mate, could open the refrigerator from her 
bed. "Look at me," she laughed as we casually 
observed the sloth-like behavior occurring in 
our room, "I'm like Jabba the Hut!" 
So, in our room, far before this semester's 
Star Wars craze, Corrie and I installed what 
we refer to as the Jabba System. 
The System follows a fairly easy set of rules. 
All you need is a well planned set-up in your 
dorm room, or apartment (although this is a 
bit more challenging ) and a group of individ­
uals, preferably good friends, who are willing 
to cast aside all active tendencies and reduce 
physical expenditure to a minimum. 
The rules are as follows: 
1. 
Make sure all phones, remote controls and food supplies are within arm's reach. 

2. 
If possible, have every non-resident's phone calls forwarded to the "Hut." 

3. 
Make sure that the position you assume will be comfortable for at least four hours. 

4. 
Know that if you stand up at any time, for any reason, you make yourself vulnerable to become the group's "gofer." 


The System can employ many individuals 
and is best implemented on Saturdays in the 
few hours between sleeping in and going out 
and Sundays, after sleeping in and during the 
line-up of the sport of the season. 
Recently, though, we learned that this sys­
tem does not work for everyone. 
On Super Bowl Sunday, we tried to convince 
some friends of ours in Stanford that this sys­
tem is beneficial, but, alas, they failed to 
agree. So, we realized that this system is only 
for those who are willing to cast aside their 
energetic side. There has to be an actual 
desire not to move and to be proud of your 
lethargy. 

Don't assume that this is a routine part of 
our daily lives. Actually, the behavior never 
leaves our room. In fact, we are a very active 
group of individuals. We work out, we take 
the stairs, we can be found dancing at clubs 
at least three days of the week. At the same 
time we find this release necessary after a 
hard week's work, an.d we revel in this behav­
ior. 

We find comfort in knowing that we are not 
the only ones who engage in this behavior. In 
fact, we know many individuals and groups of 
friends who spend their weekends lounging 
around doing nothing of importance and lack­
ing motivation until ten o'clock at night. 
So, take some time in this busy, stress-filled world. I know that the Cindy Crawfords, Jean-Claude VanDammes and Susan Powters try and make us feel guilty if we are not active, but everyone needs a break sometime. We need to be "Jabbas" once in a while. So, live in the moment and ignore that urge to move, and bond with your friends. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Russ Williams Graphics Allison Koenig 
Melissa Weber Sports Production Mike Day 
Maureen Hurley Viewpoint Chris Hahn Tara Churik John Hutchinson 
Accent Lab Tech 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 5, 1997 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Helicopter crash kills 70 in sudden military air disaster 
SHAAR YESHUV, Israel 

Two transport helicopters shut­tling elite troops to Lebanon. collided 25 km Tuesday in fog and rain and crashed in flames into a settlement, killing roughly 70 soldiers aboard. It was .Israel's worst military air disaster. 
About 7 p.m., a white burst of light illuminated the night sky five miles south of the Lebanon border. One of the two CH-53 Sikorsky heli­copters smashed into an empty guest house, which exploded into flames. 
"There was a huge explosion," witness Hache! Fromovitz told The Associated Press. "They crashed !. ISRAEL 
right above us, and the helicopters '\'... came down in a fiery blaze.'' . 
The accident appeared likely to EGYPT·\ _.LJ:=~~~~~ tims," Prime Minister Benjaminraise new questions about Israel's _ Netanyahu said. "The entire nation cries costly involvement in Lebanon -as AP/Carl Fox today for the loss of our young fighters." 
Jackson faces plagiarism scandal 
HOME 
Ungloved but wearing blindingly shiny black pants, Michael Jackson told a Rome courtroom Tuesday that he did not plagiarize an Italian song. He is accused of copying music and lyrics in "Will you be there" on his 1991 "Dangerous" album. The alleged source: "I Cigni di Balaka" (The Swans of Balaka) by Italian singer Al Bano. In 

1994, an Italian civil court found that Jackson copied the song, and banned sale of the album in Italy. On Tuesday, during a hearing on a parallel criminal case, the prose­cutor asked if Jackson could explain an expert's analysis that 37 notes were the same in each song. Speaking soft­ly, Jackson said, "There is some similarity, but it's com­pletely coincidental." When asked whether he copied lyrics from Bano's song, Jackson said he "couldn't have copied him because I don't speak Italian." The questions and answers were translated by an interpreter. Lawyers, clerks and a half-dozen paramilitary police milled about inside the square, modern courtroom. Jackson smiled frequently during the hour-long hearing, apparently amused by the malfunctioning sound system and chaotic exchanges between the lawyers and judge. "He'll stop laughing when he has to pay damages," Bano lawyer Francesco Caroleo Grimaldi told reporters later. 
Housewife receives death sentence 
KERRVILLE, Texas 
A housewife accused of fatally stabbing two of her sons and then slashing her throat to make it look like an attack by an intruder was sentenced to death Tuesday. A jury took four hours to decide the fate of 27-year-old Darlie Routier, who prosecutors said killed in frustration over financial problems and the burdens of motherhood. The jury could have given her life in prison. She was convicted Saturday of murder in the June 6 slaying of her 5-year-son, Damon. She is also charged with mur­dering the boy's older brother, 6-year-old Devon, but prosecutors decided to try the cases separately. Mrs. Routier, who also has an infant son, had claimed that an intruder attacked her and her boys in the family's home in Rowlett, 20 miles east of Dallas, and then fled through the garage. Her husband said he was upstairs at the time and did not see or hear an intruder. Prosecutors said she staged the attack. Mrs. Routier was stone-faced upon heartng the verdict. She becomes the seventh woman on death row in Texas, which has not executed a woman since 1863. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER . • NATiONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 5.
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
' .r:-....
i...-.........~-~ 
H L 

25 14 28 12 Friday 33 16 
FRONTS: 
Saturd~y 12 
..,............ ....a....a.... ........a-r 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

15 
Pressure 
H L 6J E;SI !Til 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORM$ FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
well as the decision to send in the troops by helicopters despite the stormy weath­er. Officials said the helicopters were shuttling soldiers to Lebanon as part of a troop rotation. 
Smoke poured from one helicopter as it went down, Yoav Frenkel told Army Hadio. "The second helicopter lit up in the air as it fell," he said. 
Despite extensive damage in Shaar Yeshuv, a communal settlement in the eastern Galilee, there were no known injuries to anyone on the ground. 
Commander Maj.-Gen. Amiram Levine said about 70 soldiers and officers were killed, and that all of the troops aboard the two helicopters were believed dead. 
"This is a grave disaster, and a heavy heart goes out to the families of the vic-

Police arrest son on hate charges 
COATESVILLE, Pa. 

The rocks broke windows and carried racial slurs that threatened to burn the house down if the black family didn't move. Police were so alarmed they considered posting a guard. Now they've charged someone: the fam­ily's 14-year-old son. The teen-ager was trying to fright­en his mother into moving out of East Fallowfield Township in eastern Pennsylvania, said Police Chief Peter Mango. He wanted to move because his mother had punished him for fighting with neighborhood chil­dren by curtailing his play time outside and he wanted to ride his bike more, Mango said. The teen-ager was arrested Monday night and chargtJd with making false reports to police. Authorities do not plan to push for detention, only to make sure he gets counseling, Mango said. Since Jan. 28, three rocks were thrown at the fami­ly's house, two with racist messages attached and one that broke a window. Another rock wrapped in a racist message hit the home the next day. A fifth rock was found Monday. The message on one rock read: "Don't leave you're kids home alone." Another threatened to burn the house down if the family did not move before Friday. The boy lived at the house with his mother and 8-year-old brother. Authorities did not release his name because of his age. The boy came under suspicion because his fingerprints were on the messages, even one he said he hadn't touched, the police chief said. 
Pot teacher lands behind bars 
NEW ALBANY, Ind. 

A former substitute teacher who smoked marijuana with several New Albany High School students in a class­room began serving his jail sentence Tuesday. Officer Jeremy Furmall said Edward C. "Dugan" Hyan Jr. reported to the Floyd County Jail to begin a 30-day sen­tence that could be halved with time off for good behav­ior. Hyan, 25, pleaded guilty in September to smoking pot with students while working as a substitute teacher at New Albany High in May 1995. Students reportedly opened windows and sprayed perfume and hair spray in the classroom to mask the marijuana odor. But some students immediately reported the incident to an assis­tant principal, and Hyan was arrested before the day was over. During sentencing last week, Hyan read a statement that said, "I definitely knew it was wrong, and I'm not sure why I did it." Floyd Superior Judge Hichard Striegel sentenced Hyan to 18 months in jail, but sus­pended most of that. Ryan was also given one year of home incarceration, 100 hours of community service and fined $500. 
Joseph Weiler Michelle Sweet Megan Ferstenfeld 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
q,~,~p~Q {) ~ u 
excepc during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Via Associated Press GraohicsNet 
Amarillo  47  31  Honolulu  85  66  Philadelphia 41  34  
Baltimore  40  37  Indianapolis  50  37  Portland  52  4t  
Boston  38  25  Juneau  39  36  San Diego  65  52  
Chicago  37  22  las Vegas  62  37  Seattle  54  40  
Detroit  41  31  New Orleans 73  64  Washington 61  38  


Wednesday, February 5, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Grad shares teaching experience 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR was founded in 1989. The program boasts of 13 Assistant News Editor sites, including locations in California, New York 
City, Mississippi and Washington D.C. 
As a 1995 graduate of Notre Dame, Kira Lodge Although Lodge admits that her experience has knew she wanted to do a couple of years of volun­not been "all roses," she explained that the teer service. She decided to join Teach For rewarding moments far outweighed the disap­America, and commit two years of her life to teach pointing times. She shared several of those in underprivileged urban and rural public schools. rewarding moments with the group of potential The decision to teach was not applicants in her presenta­unique to her family, as her tion at the Center for Social
'Jfyou can sell learning 
father and sister are both in Concerns Monday afternoon. the profession, but her expe­to a child, you can sell "When Teach For America riences in the program were. sent me to Notre Dame t:l
anything.'
"My dad is a high school Kira Lodge recruit, I didn't hesitate," she teacher and so I thought, said. "I don't think we do --------------service for a sacrifice, rather
'This is easy, I'm going to go in and change the world'," she said. "My idealism flew out when I walked in the door." 
Lodge walked in that day to her Phoenix area third and fourth grade bilingual combination class, in which half of the students spoke only Spanish, half only English, and the students' education lev­els ranged from special-ed to gifted. 
"The stress I felt at Notre Dame did not compare to what I felt (at that point)," she said. 
Lodge is one of about 4,000 recent college grad­uates from various colleges, cultur~l backgrounds and academic majors who have chosen to take part in the Teach for America program, which an enrichment. There is no sacrifice with Teach For America." She said Notre Dame is one of 20 schools from which the program actively recruits. 
Working with school districts that have suffered from persistent teacher shortages, corps members are hired at starting teacher salaries which range from $17,000 to $30,000 a year. · 
On the future benefits of her experience gained through the program, Lodge said, "If you can sell learning to a child, you can sell anything." 
Applications for graduating seniors are due in March and will be available in the Hesburgh Library basement. 


Panel reveals importance of friends 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 
What makes a good friend? Why do we need friendship? Are lifelong friendships possible? 
These questions were the topic of Monday's Health Matters discussion at Saint Mary's. The informal talk, led by Cindy Danford. professor of nursing. and Angie Appleby, a 1991 Saint Mary's graduate, centered on the meaning of friendship in students' lives. 
"Without just one of my friends, I wouldn't be the person I am today," Appleby said. Several audience members agreed, mentioning the continu­al influence friends have in the development of individual per­sonalities. 
Much of the discussion focused on the relationships 
between college students. Danford stressed the impor­tance of accepting and offering criticism when necessary. 
Appleby agreed, .explaining that friendships are relatively easy to start and maintain in a closed college environment. After graduation, however, keeping friends requires more work. Following the lecture, attendees formed small groups to discuss qualities they felt were important in a successful friendship. Common character­istics among each group includ­ed honesty, compassion, trust, and similar values. 
However, Danford and Appleby pointed out that even people with completely different value systems can become good friends. Appleby emphasized that the key to friendship rela­tionships is to "respect where each other is coming from and move beyond it." 
Members of the audience dis­cussed conflicts between indi­vidual and societal values. One graduate recalled an incident concerning a college friend. When the friend refused to end a relationship, it eventually led to his own involvement in drugs .• The speaker reiterated that it takes a lot of maturity, wisdom, and courage to leave friends and find others with common values. 
This panel is the first of four Health Matters discussions sponsored by the Board of Governance and organized by spirituality. commissioner Laura Lechman. Discussions are led by faculty and alumnae. The next talk will be held on Monday at 7 
p.m. in the Regina North Lounge at Saint Mary's. 

"The power of the penis unbound... lies behind Catholic opposition to birth control'' 
Does this sound shocking? Unfounded? Prejudiced? It is, espe­cially when you consider that it comes from a campus newspaper editorial written by a Notre Dame graduate. 
Are you interesting in defending the rights of the Catholic Church and Catholic ethnic groups to express their beliefs against discriminatory attacks? If so, come to the Montgomery Theater in Lafortune on Thursday at 9 p.m. for a meeting of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights. 
year's ary Festival 7,·at 8 p.m. all. Tickets 
le at the 
ation desk .as of rsday at 9 a.m. Students showing student ID are entitled to two tickets. The Sophomore Literary 
·Festival planning committee is leaving open, however, the option of moving Clancy's ·a earance to the Stepan 
if· to 
""''""'.,elming. aU.lfi()f.s. s duled to the week 
d. Alan a Cogan, 


Kmiec: Ruling may set assisted suicide trend 
The Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
A ruling by a Florida judge that a doctor can help a man dying of AIDS commit suicide and not be prosecuted for it 
may be the beginning of a trend, said Douglas Kmiec, a professor of consijtution­al law at Notre Dame. 

C i r c u it Kmiec J u d g e Joseph Davis said his ruling applies only to Charles Hall, the lone survivor among three terminally ill patients in a law­suit filed a year ago. 
Hall "has a constitutional right to decide to terminate his suffering and determine the time and manner of death," Davis said. The judge added that Hall's physician, Dr. Cecil Mciver, could not be 
prosecuted for any role in Hall's death. 
Mciver and the three patients argued in the lawsuit that a privacy provision in the Florida Constitution gives dying but mentally competent people the right to obtain a lethal prescription from a will­ing physician. 
Davis' ruling marks the first time any state judge in the nation has supported doctor­assisted suicide, said Kmiec. 
"I do expect more of the same," Kmiec said. Florida officials plan to appeal. 
Hall, battling pneumonia, could not make it to the court­house. His lawyer, Robert Rivas, argued that the ban on physician-assisted suicide was enacted in 1868 for purely religious reasons and was a relic of a time when disease killed people much faster. 
Hall, 35, has said he con­tracted the AIDS virus through a blood transfusion in 1981. 



-~-·­

r---~----------------------------· ----------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 5, 1997 
THE WELFARE REVOLUTION 
Anorexia 
continued from page 1 

her exercising and tried to eat as normally as pos­sible. Returning to campus after break brought a return to the pressure of college. 
"After Christmas I had an empty feeling inside of me. I just wanted to make a good impression," she said. 
Part of the pressure was relieved through less than healthy means. Listening to two friends dis­cussing eating problems and means of losing weight for a psychology test, laxatives and their consequences first came into the picture. 
"It's scary to know how easy it was for me to think, 'Well, the next time I go to Meijer's, I'll see what that does."' 
The weight loss brought on by the use of laxa­tives and excessive exercising gave Megan added attention and a focus on her body that she was not used to. "You get all these compliments," she said. '"You look good,' 'You look great.' You drop sizes. I just felt excited to fit into a size four dress." 
Shortly after beginning to use laxatives, Megan stopped having her monthly period. While many people will recognize this as one of the warning signs of abnormal eating habits, she attributed it to problems with irregularity she had always had. Meanwhile, her parents and friends started wor­rying about her health. 
"My parents came up for Little Siblings week­end, and my father pulled me aside and told me how worried my mother was about me," she said, then mentions how guilty she felt about making her parents worried. 
Her mother told her she looked tired, and Megan responded that it was just the usual stress of college and studying. 

Clinton 
continued from page 1 
being read in California. 

Balancing the budget by 2002 "requires only your vote and my signature," Clinton said, brush­ing over the wide gulf with Republicans over how to achieve 
Thurs. Feb. 6 
7:00-9:00pm: 
Fri. Feb. 7 
9:00-10: 15am: 
10:30-12:00: 
1:30-2:30: 
2:45-3:45: 
4:00-5:00:
II 


I 
Sat. Feb. 8 
9:00-12:00 noon: 
II 
*; 


that goal. "This is not going to be ment. We need action." That line easy," he acknowledged, adding drew groans from Hepublicans. that he believed Americans gave Clinton was on strong footing him a second term to make as he faced Republicans suspj­tough decisions about the future. cious of his proposals. llis politi­
He said the Republican-driven cal confidence, shaken by the proposal for a constitutional Democrats' devastation in 1994, amendment for a balanced bud­was restored by his re-election, get was "unnecessary and and his recent approval ratings unwise," adding: "We don't were among the highest of his need a constitutional amend-presidency. 
AND CATHOLIC SOCIAL 


THOUGHT 

February 6,7,8 1997 
Cheryl Sullivan, Former Indiana Secretary of Family and Social Services 
Welfare in America: What Reform Really Means 
Wendell Primus, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities 
Implementing Welfare Reform and Measuring Its Impact on Children 
Lawrence M. Mead III, Author of The New Politics ofPoverty Welfare Reform: Moral and Theological Issues 
Fr. William O'Neill, Jesuit School of Theology at Berkeley 
Commonweal or Woe? The Ethics ofWelfore Reform 
Christine Firer Hinze, Marquette University 
What Is Work For? A Catholic Ethical Response to a Crucial Issue in US. Welfare Reform 
Stanley Carlson-Thies, Center for Public Justice 
'Don't Look to Us': The Negative Responses ofChurches to Welfare Reform 
Welfare Reform and the Catholic Church: A Roundtable Discussion Chair: Bishop William Murphy of Boston 
Megan's realization that something was wrong with her health and her sense of self came during one of her all too frequent trips to the gym. While working out with friends, she noticed another girl beside her who was all but skin and bones. She 
realized that she "didn't want to look like that." She started going to lunch, but only to the point of eating salads and cottage cheese. 
Trying to get her life back under control was just one aspect of her change. One warning sign that Megan shared with many people who have eating problems was a need to have control over her life in spite of the pressures of college. 
"I don't know what I was trying to fulfill ... I don't know what it was, loneliness maybe. I just wanted to be better. I felt that when I was con­trolling my eating, I was controlling something," Megan said. 
The control over her life and her disorder finally came not just from herself but from the people around her, especially her family. 
"The worst thing I could have done was not tell my parents," she said. "I thought that I could handle everything and that by talking with my friends, (things} would just work out." She adds that "It's so much easier to deal with when the people around you who love you know what's going on." 
She said that she lost a lot of things besides weight, but that luckily her life was not one of them. She was never hospitalized for side affects of her eating disorder, and never paid the high price that some women who suffer from anorexia or bulimia do: dying or suffering serious health problems. 
Megan is better now, has people to talk to and support her, exercises regularly but not excessive­ly, and tries to eat three balanced meals a day. "I keep a picture of myself from freshman year in my room," she said. "I look really happy in that pic­ture and I guess that's what it looked like on the outside, but I lost a lot of things." 

Disorder 
continued from page 1 
A three week period of not eating following a tonsillectomy operation last year was a trig­ger for the onset of anorexia, as it was then that she "realized" that she didn't have to eat. This critical period preceded the trend of scaling back her meals with her friends, limiting herself to bagels, yogurt, and Snackwells. 
According to her mother, Deborah Deeter, she then began to read numerous books about nutrition. 
"I was getting concerned; she was running more and eating less," said Deborah Deeter. 
Finally, after several attempts to find medical help for her problem, JoAnna Deeter was admitted to a treatment pro­gram when her vital signs were tested and found to be exces­sively low. The program, which forced her to eat again, made her overcome her fear of food. 
"If you suspect that your friend has a serious problem, [getting his or her vital signs tested] could be one of the most helpful things you can do," said JoAnna Deeter. 
"Once it starts, I am absolute­ly convinced that you cannot stop it by yourself," said Deborah Deeter. It was this belief that made the one-month inpatient treatment program so crucial to them. 
"It is so important that the friends just stiek by the person with the eating disorder," said JoAnna Deeter. She explained that it may be difficult as anorexics are unstable emo­tionally and experience "a lot of mood swings." 
"Be extremely cautious about approaching your friend," said JoAnna Deeter. 
The Deeters, in collaboration with Karla Arenas of the University Counseling Center, explained the best ways to help a friend with an eating disor­der. 
The team said that concerned friends should inform them­selves and make sure they are certain about their suspicions. Information about eating disor­ders can be obtained from the Women's Resource Center, the University Counseling Center, the Saint Mary's Counseling Center or by contacting Karla Arenas, a Farley Hall senior. 
They explained the important role that friends play in expressing their concerns that the issue is affecting their rela­tionship, not that they want to save the person. By saying things like, "I have noticed ... " rather than, "You're doing this ... ," a friend expresses con­cern without judgment. 
In addition, friends should avoid talking behind the backs of the anorexic, as that person is already scared enough with­out being ostracized by his or her friends. 
The forum was concluded with a discussion of the ways that Notre Dame and college campuses in general are con­ducive to eating disorders. These included the competition in every aspect of life. and the pressure to be like or as good as everyone else. The dining halls were also cited, due to the endless amounts of food that cause distress for anorexics and bulimics alike. . . 
The Deeters also suggested "www.mirror-mirror.com/eat­dis.html" and "www.some­thing-fishy.com/ed.html" web sites for increased understand­ing of the plight of an anorexic. 

Sponsored by: Thomas]. White Center on Law and Government, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, and the United States Catholic Conference 
All sessions at the Centerfor Continuing Education 
.,.; 
'····< . ,-· 

Wednesday, February 5, 1997 




Jury finds Simpson liable 
By LINDA DEUTSCH 
Associated Press W rirer 
SANTA MONICA, Calif. 

A civil jury found O.J. Simpson liable Tuesday for the slashing deaths of his ex-wife and her friend, a moral victory 
for grieving relatives who felt the foote ball great got away with murder. 
The jury ordered him to pay $8.5 


million in Simpson compensatory damages and will return Thursday to hear arguments on whether to award millions more in punitive damages. 
As the verdict was read, Simpson remained seated and stoic, staring straight ahead. 
Across the courtroom, a whoop of joy went up from the relatives of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. 
"Yes!" screamed sister Kim Goldman, in contrast to the way she sobbed openly when Simpson was acquitted of mur­der 16 months ago. 
"We finally got some justice for Ron and Nicole," said Fred Goldman, the aggrieved father who pursued Simpson to civil court after denouncing the acquittal. "This is all we ever wanted. We have it. Thank God." 
"This is justice!" Denise Brown, sister of Nicole Brown Simpson, said as she left the courtroom. 
Louis Brown. who sat stone still as the verdict was announced. stood and smiled afterward. "I want to get out­side and scream." 
The mostly white panel, forced to start deliberations anew last Friday after a juror was removed for misconduct, snatched away some of the vin­dication Simpson claimed when he was acquitted of murder by a mostly black jury in 1995. That televised murder trial divided the nation over issues of police racism, domestic vio­lence and the quality of justice. 
This civil jury, using the Jess­er standard of "preponderance of evidence" rather than "beyond a reasonable doubt," was unanimous on all counts in blaming Simpson for the June 12, 1994, slayings. 
The dramatic reading of the verdict was delayed more than three hours to allow the lawyers and families to get to the courthouse. Simpson's trip -in a black Suburban instead of a white Bronco -was tele­vised live nationally on a split screen just as President Clinton began his State of the Union address. 
Simpson, wearing a dark suit, left the courthouse with his head bowed and showing no expression. A mix of boos and cheers rose greeted him as he as from the huge crowd that outside the courthouse as Simpson got back in the Suburban and was taken away. 
The $8.5 million represented the value of Goldman's funeral and the loss of Goldman's com­panionship to his parents. Ms. Simpson's family did not seek compensatory damages. 
The jury's findings of malice and oppression triggered the second phase to determine punitive damages -money assessed to punish Simpson. 
Already, the plaintiffs' attor­neys have asked for and received Simpson's latest finan­cial records in preparation for a punitive phase. 
Christopher Darden, a prose­cutor in Simpson's criminal trial, told CNBC: ···we said all along that O.J Simpson commit­ted these crimes and all we asked ... was our day in court. A fair hearing. A fair hearing on the issues. And I believe that we've done that, that that's been accomplished." 
The jury reached the verdict after 17 hours of deliberations over three days -more than five times as long as the crimi­nal jury deliberated. 
That was on top of the 14 hours over three days that were interrupted Friday when the judge replaced the only black member for failing to disclose that her daughter was a secre­tary in the district attorney's office that prosecuted Simpson's murder trial. 
The final six-man, six-woman jury consisted of nine whites, one Hispanic, one Asian and one of Asian and black her­itage. · 
In its last day of deliberations, the jury spent three hours lis­tening to readbacks ·of some 200 pages of testimony focusing on Simpson's opportunity and motive. It heard testimony about Simpson's alibi, a bruis­ing argument with his ex-wife and a limousine driver's time line. 
Jurors were particularly attentive when they heard the testimony of limo driver Allan Park; the only witness whose testimony the jury at Simpson's murder trial asked to hear again before it acquitted him. 
A central issue in the case was whether Simpson would have had time to kill two people at Ms. Simpson's condo, dispose of a weapon and bloody clothes, and return home in time to meet the limousine at 11 p.m. 
Park testified he didn't see Simpson's Bronco when he pulled up in his limo and got no answer when he repeatedly rang the buzzer at Simpson's gate. 
Simpson maintained he was in bed, showering, chipping golf balls and taking his dog for a walk around the time of the slayings. 
The wrongful death case brought by the victims' families was an abbreviated version of the criminal trial -41 days of testimony rather than 133. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 5, 1997 

Vote increase marks election 
By RACHEL TORRES "This week, some seniors policies if they don't vote." News Writer heard rumors that they would Current student body presi­not be allowed to vote in these dent .len Turbiak responded to 
The Saint Mary's College stu-elections," reasoned GayIa the turnout by stating, ''I'm dent body elections held yes-Spinney, a senior. The rumors excited about the voter turnout terday saw a voter turnout of were false, but may have had and hope that the women elect­
54 percent.  While this  ------------------­ ed realize the inter­ 
is a higher number than those who voted  '  1hope that the women elected real­ est and will continue to listen to the stu­ 
in last year's election,  ize the interest and will continue to  dent body."  
some said the percent- listen to the student body.'  The elections com- 

Candidates answered 
question~ 
from the audience at Monday night's debates. Nikki Milos and Lori McKeough prevailed in yesterday's election. 

Election 
continued from page 1 
"I am very excited and really pleased with the voter turnout," said McKeough. "Surprisingly, I'm at a loss for words." 
McNally/Parente followed with 17 percent of the votes. 
"I think that Nikki and Lori will do a good job," said McNally. 
The Becker/Cervantes ticket held its own, capturing 10 per­cent of the votes. 
"''m happy that Nikki and Lori won. I worked with (Milos) this summer; she's a great per­son and a great leader," Cervantes said. 
''I'm glad for Nikki and Lori. I 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
don't know what my plans for the future are yet," added Becker. 
"I think that it is obvious, due to the 70 percent landslide, that the student body has faith in Milos/McKeough, and so do 
I. I know that they will do an excellent job," said Emily Miller, Board of Governance elections commissioner. 
Current student body presi-. dent Jen Turbiak is also happy with the results. 
"I think that all of the women are very qualified and would have done an outstanding job. I'm excited about the new president and vice president elect because of their dedica­tion and experience," said Turbiak. "I wish them all the luck in the world. I'm going to miss it." 
State eyes new Cleveland Road construction project 
Observer·Staff Repon 

After a season in which win­ter weather caused driving havoc throughout the area, construction season is approaching with two projects in store. 
This summer, Cleveland Road will be closed from Juniper to Ironwood for the second and final part of its renovation, scheduled for completion by Sept. 1. 
And bid opening is scheduled for Feb. 11 for the five-laning of State Road 23 from Twyckenham Drive to a point just past Cleveland, northwest of University Park Mall. Work could begin as early as mid­March. 
Though this plan has been contingent for most of the 1990s, Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) and Army Corps of Engineers permits have been delayed due to environmental concerns, but should be forth­coming in the next week and a half, according to Russ Grunden, IDEM public affairs spokesman. 
The Indiana Department of Transportation has scheduled 1998 as the completion date of that project. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631·5323 

age should be higher. 

Commented junior Debra Diemer, "I don't understand why people wouldn't vote-it's so easy." 
Indeed, the process is simple. Saint Mary's elections are facil­itated in such a way that stu­dents walk past the voting booth before and after each meal in the dining hall. 
missioner for Board Jen Turbiak of Governance (BOG). Emily Miller, an impact on overall turnout. maintained that she is "proud" Spinney feels more people of the upward trend in voter should "realize the importance turnout because it can be of having their say." equated with "more aware­
"Bravo to the 54 percent," ness" of campus issues. said junior Catherine Navarro, Junior Anne Werring said, "but the rest of the students "No matter what the percentage, should not complain about the it is good to have an increase." 
DO YOU WANT TO 




TUTOR 
GRADE SCHOOL KIDS? 
JOIN THE NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
VOUJNTEEI\ JUST AN HOUI\ TWICE AWEEK, AND MAKE A DIFFEI\ENCE 
IN A LITTLE KID'S LIFE. 
. TUESDAY & THURSDAY 1:00-2:00 JP Cooney 634-0577 2:30 -3:30 Trina Sandberg 634-4675 3:00-4:00 Carrie KronL~ 634-3352 
MONDAY &WEDNESDAY
-

p· s 634-1675 
, 1:00 -2:00 Arny me b 634-4161 
) Allison Do son
l

2:00-3:30 (Egg eston . McCarthy 634-3842 
2:30 3:30 (Swanson) Knsta 

FRJDA.y 3:3Q_5:3Q 
Reg · lur .

gJe lVlacta] 634-4]]7 
"Neria" by Godwin Mawuru of Zimbabwe Film 7 p.m. 155 DeBartolo Panel Discussion to follow: Women Inheritance Rights in Traditional and Modern Africa, 
. chaired by Prof. Ann Loux ofSaint Mary's College 
"Warrior Marks" by Pratibha Parmer;
•

executive producer Alice Walker Film 7 p.m. 155 DeBartolo Panel Discussion to follow: Female Genital Mutilation in Africa and Asia, chaired by Prof. Patricia Davis of Notre Dame 
"Gods in Mrica" by Ali Mazrui Film 7 p.m. 155 DeBartolo Panel Discussion to follow: Gods in Africa, chaired by Prof. James Bellis ofNotre Dame 
Encounter With Mrica: My Experience in Cameroon -Prof. Ann Loux ofSaint Mary's College 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium/Peace Studies Building 
WATCH FOR MORE EVENTS TO COME! 
--~----~-----------------------------------------. 
Wednesday, February 5, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
·Officer resigns from panel 
Sex charges force leader off investigation 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER Associated Press Wricer 
WASHINGTON 
The Army's top enlisted offi­cer was named to a panel studying the service's sex abuse problems months after assault allegations were made against him by one of his female Army employees. 
The service's top officials could offer no explanation Tuesday how that happened or why the woman's complaint was not more fully investigat­ed. 
Army Secretary Togo West, testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee, said he learned of allegations against the sergeant major of the Army, Gene McKinney, just this week. 
Gen. Dennis Reimer, the Army chief of staff, said after the hearing, ''I'm not going to have any comment." 
West appointed McKinney in November to the panel, formed in the wake of a series of sexu­al misconduct complaints made against military trainers at Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Maryland. 
On Tuesday, the Army announced that a seventh instructor, Staff Sgt. Vernell Robinson, Jr., had been charged with rape, extortion, assault and threatening three trainees ~ the most serious charges so far. 
McKinney serves in one of the Army's most revered posts, and is supposed to serve as a role model. He is Reimer's top advisor on matters affecting the service's 410,000 enlisted men and women and his offices are directly across the hall from the chief of staff's Pentagon quarters. 
In a formal Army statement, McKinney denied the allega­tions of sexual assault and harassment made by retired Sgt. Maj. Brenda Hoster. 
The Army said that pending resolution of the matter, McKinney was granted a request to be excused from his duties on the high-level panel. 
Hoster's allegations first appeared Tuesday in the New York Times. The 22-year Army veteran worked as McKinney's public affairs officer, writing speeches and preparing state­ments. 
She said McKinney kissed her, grabbed her and asked for sex in her hotel room during an April business trip to Hawaii. 
She went public "as a matter of personal responsibility" after her complaint to superi­ors went unheeded and McKinney was appointed to the panel, said Susan Barnes, an attorney working alongside Hoster. 


On National Tour 
**Contains adult themes.** 


Morris Civic Auditorium 
South Bend 

February 14-15-16, 1997 Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m., Sunday 1:30 p.m. EST 
Tickets-$18.50 to $44.50 
•Call {219) 235-9190• 
Box office open Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m. -5 p.m. Group, Student, and Senior Citizens Discounts• Charge to VISA, MasterCard,Amex 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
Help Wanted: Valentine Delivery 

~~tJU'?~ 
Call277-6067 

Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The Diamond Authori~ 
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 4660l 
Hours: 'Till 1 AM Sun­Thurs 


Early Week Special: 
2 14" Pizzas with one 
'Till2 AM Fri and Sat 


topping for $12.50! 
Lunch 11-2 





273-3890 
JISTILL THE BEST" 
.----------------------­page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 5, 1997 
• RUSSIA 


Yeltsin appears in Kremlin amid calls to resign 
By LYNN BERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW 
Communists pledged Tuesday to press their campaign to oust ailing President Boris Yeltsin, but Yeltsin took some of the force out of their argu­ments by showing up for work at the Kremlin. 
The Russian president, who is recov­ering from pneumonia, was out of the public eye for three weeks until he resurfaced a week ago. Tuesday's visit was his third to his office since then, although like the others it was made known only after the fact in television footage and pho­tographs. 
Yeltsin has been at work in the Kremlin only sporadically since he suffered a heart attack last summer. His prolonged absence has provided ammuni­tion to his critics, who say Yeltsin should step down. 

"I wish the president would take the· decision to retire, to undergo medical treatment in peace and gradually recover," Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov said Tuesday. 
Some Communist lawmakers in the lower house of parlia­ment tried unsuccessfully to force Yeltsin from office last month, and Zyuganov said the attempt would be made again. 
The deputy speaker, Alexander Shokhin, warned that attempts to remove the presi­dent could backfire. 
"The State Duma may discuss what it will, even the question of the president's resignation, but the passing of a decision can have consequences, including 
The Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

In the battle between Russia's criminal gangs and authorities, the criminals so far have seemed to have the upper hand. So on Tuesday, Moscow law enforce­ment and several companies put their best weapons on display. 
Under the broad theme of '"Security '97," vendors peddled everything from handguns and gas masks to personal body­guards and the latest computer­security systems. Others simply displayed their armored vehicles for the enjoyment of onlookers at Moscow's most prestigious exhi­bition hall. 
Lydia Yevseyevna promoted a plastic hazardous materials mask with a mouthpiece, hose and filter that she said could be used in any home. "Ofcourse, regular people can use this, too," she said. "Say there is a fire in your apartment. A person could put this on and put out the fire. This is for individuals, too." 
Crime has escalated since the fall of the Soviet Union six years 
PLAN NOW 

TO Chinese • American Restaurant CELEBRATE and Cocktail Lounge
CIDNESE NEW 
YEAR! 

Thurs. Feb 6 • 5-9 p.m. Fri. Feb 7 • 11 :30 a.m.-9 p.m. 
No Daily Lunch Special-Buffet Only.
1 





GREAT \YALL 
Buffet includes: Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers, 8 Entrees and Desserts Other menu items also available. 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
the dissolution of the chamber for attempting to seize power," the ITAR-Tass news agency quoted Shokhin as saying. 
The constitution gives the president the right to dissolve parliament. It does not, howev­er, give law­

makers any -----------­clear author­shown Tuesday on
'}wish the president 
ity to remove TV news, Yeltsin the presi-would take the walked slowly and 
shook Prime

dent. decision to retire.'
Even so, Minister Viktor Shokhin said Chernomyrdin's he believes Gennady Zyuganov hand before the the hard-line Communist Party leader two men sat down opposition, at a table. 
which domi­nates the lower house, will insist on putting the issue on the agenda again. 
Viktor llyukhin, the prominent Communist lawmaker who introduced the impeachment resolution, said.. Tuesday it was being modified and likely would be changed so that it asks the 

Moscow turns to anti-crime weapons 
ago. And while violent crimes have declined since 1995, the fear remains. The gear on dis­play Tuesday, however, will do little to stop Russia's most seri­ous criminals -those said to operate in the top spheres of gov­ernment and fmance. 
president to resign voluntarily. 
Yeltsin is spending most of his time at a residence just outside Moscow and has not said when he will return to the Kremlin on a regular basis. Doctms say the 66-year-old president will make 
a full recovery. 
In brief footage 
The Kremlin said Yeltsin conferred for an hour with the prime minister, who is traveling Wednesday to the United States for meetings with Vice President AI Gore. 
Chernomyrdin will raise the issue of NATO's planned east­ward expansion, which Russia opposes, as well as prospects for increased foreign investment in the troubled Russian econo­my., presidential spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky said. 
Yeltsin, who underwent heart bypass surgery in November, returned to his office in December promising strong action to deal with Russia's many woes. But two weeks later he came down with pneu­monia. 
Many in the Russian news media have questioned the president's health and fitness to govern. 
The liberal Itogi magazine said that in his recent appear­ances, Yeltsin had an "unfo­cused look and childish expres­sion." 
"Yeltsin's appearances before cameras have answered only one question -whether the president is still alive," it said. "But doubts about the serious­ness of his condition have remained." 


CELEBRATE A FRIEND'S BIRTHDAY WITH A SPECIAL OBSERVER AD 
~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER 
is accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and he comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume lttulfive-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m. Thursday, February 6, 1997. For additional information about the position contact Business Manager Mutt Casey at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief Liz Foran rtt 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third.floor ofLaFortune. 
~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 5, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Erhan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor......... ...... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Pharo Editor . .................Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independem newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither insrirution. The news is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Ediror/Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  63 I -6900/884'0  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Phoro  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• POLITICS AT NOTRE DAME 
Students must fight for formal representation 
Thanks to the efforts of Judicial Board Chairman Ryan Mcinerney, student rights at Notre Dame has become a hot topic of discussion for the Student Senate and Campus Life Council this school year. Unlike most of its peer insti­tutions. Notre Dame has no student bill of rights and students have no formal representation in the Office of Student Affairs to assure that their needs and 
JP Cooney 
rights are properly attended to. As a result, the relationship between students and Student Affairs has remained large­ly adversarial over the years. 
The tenuous relationship between stu­dents and Student Affairs was recog­nized and documented by an evaluation team which visited the University on behalf of the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools in February of 1994. The team's report noted that " ... the Office of Student Affairs does not seem to be regarded as a source of help and support for stu­dents. This may be clue, iii part, to the student discipline function being per­formed from within Student Affairs, or it may have unrelated causes. Student leaders and student staff (resident assis­tants) expressed a view that the Office of Student Affairs is regarded as an authoritarian and legalistic place where judgments are made without explana­tion and requests and proposals are rou­tinely denied without rationale" (p. 232.) 
It is easy to see why Notre Dame stu­dents feel this way. Nearly everyone knows of someone who has been treated unfairly by Student Affairs. In my first three semesters at Notre Dame, I bore witness to at least three events in which students were treated unjustly by either Student Affairs or their hall rector. In each of the three instances, du Lac, which is written and published by Student Affairs, allowed for this treat­ment to take place. 
The first thought that comes to mind is the attempt by Student Affairs to squelch a demonstration in support of National Coming Out Day by the College Democrats this past September. du Lac clearly states that individuals and orga­nizations who are recognized as being members of the University community by Student Affairs may hold a demon­stration regardless of content as long as it is properly registered with the Office of Residence Life (a division of Student Affairs). Despite the fact that the College Democrats are a recognized stu­dent organization, they were denied this right. 
The rationale for this denial stemmed from an earlier attempt by GLND/SMC, an unrecognized group, to register the same event. du Lac does not allow for any such denial on these grounds -the College Democrats should have been allowed to sponsor a demonstration regardless of who had attempted to do so before them. Since, however, other language in du Lac gives 5tudent Affairs the broad right of interpretation, there was no recourse for the College Democrats. This could happen to any individual or recognized organization at Notre Dame -Student Affairs was, in effect, able to censor a recognized group and could do it again. 
The second instance in which I am aware of a violation of student rights came on an individual leveL Last year a friend of mine was incorrectly identified out of the "Dog Book" by two students as being a vandal. He was in bed at the time and each of his roommates and several other members of his section could substantiate it. After being inves­tigated by Notre Dame Security and informally discussing the matter with Student Affairs, he was told that he had nothing to worry about. Two weeks later however, he received a letter requiring him to attend a Student Affairs hearing where he would be charged with vandalism and lying to Security. After a formal hearing with Student Affairs and more extensive discussions with his rector, Security, and Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk, it was agreed that the charges were absolutely false. 
If any police department in the coun­try made the same mistake, the record of the person incorrectly charged would be cleared -egregiously false charges are almost always expunged from one's record. However my friend's Notre Dame record will read that he was charged and brought before Student Affairs for a disciplinary hearing ­Student Affairs refused to expunge the charge from his record as a matter of policy. Bill Kirk agreed to write a letter explaining that the charges were outra­geously false. Unfortunately for my friepd however, that is no substitute for a clear record. 
My final experience with student rights violations came the week before finals in Planner HalL Planner's rector, Father Bill Seetch, secured all the exits to the dorm after parietals and had the RAs carry out a room by room search for women and property stolen from the common areas in the dorm. The search turned up one parietals violator (the two individuals were studying and apparent­ly lost track of time) and one piece of stolen property. Seetch later apologized for the arbitrary searches, citing his frustration with the dorm's reputation as being "Hotel Planner" as motivation for his actions. Seetch's frustration is understandable, but his actions certainly not easy to condone. However, du Lac explicitly allows rectors to arbitrarily enter the rooms of students; Seetch's actions were perfectly acceptable according to duLac. 
The University should have powers broader than that of ordinary police departments to assure that activities in the residence halls are legal and consis­tent with the guidelines for acceptable conduct at Notre Dame. At the same time however, students should have a degree of protection from an RA abrupt­ly entering their room after midnight and conducting a random bed-check. 
All of these instances are ones in which fundamental rights were violated because du Lac provides no protection for students. They all could have been avoided if even a basic student bill of rights were implanted into du Lac. What happened to the students in these situations could happen to anyone at Notre Dame -and students seem fully aware of that fact. However most feel that little can be done about it and thus ignore the problem. It is precisely this reason that the University has been able to institutionally encroach further and further upon the rights of students. 
ln order for change to occur, students must not let this issue disappear as the Office of Student Affairs would certainly like to have happen. This is an issue which every student has a stake in and thus cannot afford to ignore; if ever there was an issue over which the habit­ual passivity of the student body should be ceased, this is it. It is crucial that this topic remain talked about in the dining hall, discussed within the pages of our student publications, and debated among the candidates for student-body president next month. Rather than just mutter under our breath how much we disapprove of Student Affairs' actions, the time has come to act ·collectively upon our disapproval. 
J.P. Cooney is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 




ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, February 5, 1997 
• ACCENT ASKS 
What is your favorite sci-fi movie ? 

"'Abyss,' because it makes me curious about what's under the sea." 
Lora Bowers Freshman, Lewis 

'"E.T.' because he is the 
cutest." 
Bobby Pacheco Senior, Off-Campus 



"'Close Encounters of the Third Kind' because I liked Richard Dryfuss' mashed potato mountain." 
Claudia Burgard Junior, Holy Cross 

"'Predator' because he makes 
trophies of men." 
Pat Barker Senior, Ott-Campus 



'"E.T.' because it was one of my favorite childhood memo­ries." 
Maureen Phelan Sophomore, Cavanaugh 
"'The Last Star Fighter' because 
it's every boy's dream. One 
minute you're playing a video 
game and the next, flying a 
spaceship." 
David Walsh Junior, Fisher 

The Observer/Rachel Sederberg 


Sci-fi I 
By NIC ELIASON 
Accent Writer 

I 
n the midst of the re­release of the improved "Star Wars" trilogy, movie audiences are once again dreaming of using "the force" and experiencing space travel. The alien-oriented science fic­tion market has grown tremen­dously since 20 years ago when George Lucas, the creator of "Star Wars," first introduced his relatively low budg!)t spacn fan­tasy. As Lucas has with thn new Trilogy, movie makers as well as television producers have picked up on this interest and cashed in with a barrage of science fiction blockbusters. 
The "Star Wars" trilogy is arguably the most popular and well-known science fiction series of all time. Although there is no mention or attack of the planet Earth, as found in most alien movies, the ability to fly the Millennium Falcon at light speed and play with the lit­tle furry Ewoks effectively taps into the average person's curiosity. "Star Wars" boasts a perfect conflict of good and evil. encouraging viewers to cheer for Luke Skywalker and the rebel fleet yet fascinating them with the methodical power of the Dark Side. 
The pure entertainment of this trilogy has caused a "Star Wars" craze sending opening weekend ticket sales soaring to a new level. The excitement surrounding the release is espe­cially impressive considering there are only four minutes of additional footage. 
"Star Wars" is only one of many alien related movies to invade the screen in the -past few years. "Independencf' Day" debuted last year and thrilled audi­ences with much antic­ipated scenes of the White House and other prominent United States build­ings being blown to pieces. Unlike "Star W a r s , " "Independence Day" followed a typical plot of alien inva­sion, leaving the human race to fend off the attack and save the planet. 
The intelligent advertising prior to ID4's release, letting a few visu­ally impressive scenes loose while concealing the identity of the invaders, teased audi­ences towar a rush on opening day. 

Showing along side of "Independence Day" was "The Arrival" starring Charlie Sheen. Although it was not an 

Con-t 
overwhelming success in the box office, this sci-fi flick was entertaining partly due to its unintentional humor. The awk­ward, deranged-looking aliens planned a less obvious attack by trying to blend in with society and control the human race from the inside. 
The fact that they were deformed and could buckle their knees and run backward slightly gave them away and, noedless to say, foiled their plan. Despite being on a somowhat lower quality level than "ID4", "The Arrival" effectively provided yet another scenario through which humans could be conquered by destructive, yet comically deformed aliens. 
In addition to the alien success in theaters, television has also followed tho trend. With tho "X­Files" stepping up as one of the most popular shows of 1996, the realm of the unknown has ofli­cially invaded America's televi­sions. 
The "X-Files" cast, led by agents Mulder and Scully, played by David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson, investigates unsolved F B I 
~ 
cases that are thought · to involve paranormal activity. One such eerie episode explains a series of bizarre deaths thought to be the work of a genetically mutated serial killer who emerges every 30 years from hibernation to eat live human livers. 

The detectives obviously didn't have to use too much of thoir investigative savvy to fig­ure out that this caso was a little strange. Because of its consis­tent high quality entertainment during the last two seasons, "X­Filos" has raked in six Emmy nominations and the Golden Globe award for Best Dramatic Series in 1996. 
Although productions such as the "Star Wars " trilogy and "X­Files" have sparked increased curiosHy of late, the wave of extraterrestrial interest is not a n!~W trend. Movie makers have sucked every possiblo emotion from viewers with an assort­ment of unique alien encoun­ters. Audiences were befriend­ed by the warm hearted spirit of "E.T.," fascinated by the deep sea world discovered in "The Abyss," and horrified by Sigourney Weaver in the "Alien" series. Other films such as "The Terminator," "Cocoon," "Fire in the Sky," and even the spandex loving Superman have por­
trayed m a n y varieties 
0 f extrater­restrial visitors. 
The TV revo­1u t·i on 
voyage. 
Viewers fell on one side of the fence or t h e other, either becom­i n g romanti­c a I I y involved with the charac­ters on t h e s h 0 w 
o r 
despising the day the program was creat­ed. "Star Trek" ere­a whole new class of soci­
~---A~--------------------------­
ACCENT

fednesday, February 5, 1997 page 11 
•

vas1on 


nues 
could bond with each )Ugh split finger hand 
Society affectionately his unique bunch as " The show provided 1 for Spock-loving " to unite and share mon love for estranged 1d phaser guns. Proud ' were caught tattooing ds, "Beam me up, across their chests 1 rest of America 1 of the phrase esy bumper ~ r s . 
es 
, a 
of 
nee 
evo­
recent · during the time of the mcration" for those fol­le "Star Trek" timeline, 1olved Mysteries" series ed America with > of supposed real life ined phenomena. The 
a less dramatic and 1tter-of-fact version of popular "X-Files." >how claims to have 1vcr 260 cases, which ' consists of exposing a >t of disturbing things m getting away from > quickly as possible. erial is somewhat unbe­but made much spooki­~ seductive narration of ert Stack. 
•hat is it about aliens ptivates the human Inc reason for the inter­! long standing question ether there is something 
there. "Independence licts a scene where the 1t of the United States "The question asking · or not we're alone in niverse has been 
d." 
ly after this statement, · the world was blown 1y the rude visitors. lr Bill Clinton will be such a statement in the .ure remains to be seen, r, the fact that such a, nference is possible fas­the American interest. 
fi movie craze will pre­ong as humans can ask, '?" · is more than enough us evidence in the world 
this question alive and 
The unexplained crop hat began popping up a Lrs ago still remain a today. arly, the land known as , a site the government doesn't exist, has pro­CJ.any people to question or the government v has knowledge of rrestrial life. The gov­
ernment attempted to ease the interest in Area Sl by saying it was merely the landing spot of a weather balloon, but the fact that no citizen is allowed within miles of the site raises increased suspicion. "Independence Day" not only mentions the idea of Area 51 being an alien related s i t e , 
but depicts the area as a site 
where a spaceship crashed and 
actual aliens were recovered. 
Whether the area has any 
connection to the supernatural, 
or even exists, has no impact on 
the movie industry, for the 
rumors have already done their 
job. The simple possibility that 
such information could exist is 
enough bait to fill the theaters. 
The science fiction craze will 
by no means end after the 
release of the revamped "Star 
Wars Trilogy." George Lucas is 
working on a prequel trilogy 
that would precede the original 
"Star Wars" on the imperial 
timeline and explain the con­
quests of much younger versions 
of Obi-Wan Kenobi and Darth 
Vader, whose former identity 
was that of Anakin Skywalker. 
In addition, a film entitled 
"Men in Black" starring Will 
Smith, who is becom­. ing a veteran at 
defeating 
aliens, and 
Tommy Lee 
Jones is set 
to release 
this 
summer. 

This futuristic comedy will 
feature these actors playing the 
roles of Jay and Kay respective­
ly, two agents who make up a 
secret government team created 
to investigate and police 
extraterrestrial existence on 
Earth. 

The plot revolves around two 
ambassadors from rival galaxies 
who are protected from an 
interstellar assassin by the Men 
in Black. The film is set to open 
July 2, 1997. With so many 
alien related science fiction 
movies popping up, the ability to be original and creative is becoming increasingly harder. The prototype plot features an attack of the planet Earth by a much smarter, technologically advanced, and physically superi­or race of aliens. Despite all of these apparent disadvantages, the humans somehow figure out a way to foil the extraterrestrial plan. Perhaps it is the creativi­ty and ingenuity 
0 f 
"Star 
Wars" 
· that 
h a s 
made it such an outstanding 
production. 
Although creativity may 
have produced the "Star 
Wars" empire, it was evi­
dently insignificant to fans 
of "Independence Day," which followed a basic, yet incredibly unbelievable, alien invasion plot. 
While seeing a drunken crop duster single-handedly destroy the overpowering aliens is something audiences don't see every day, "Independence Day" compensated for its creativity problem with breathtaking spe­cial effects. 
While technology is enhancing the quality of movies, so too is it bringing the human race closer to a possible alien encounter. Space program improvements have allowed for satellites to be launched to explore farther into the galaxy than ever before. 
It is possible that humans will discover an alternate life form before any aliens invade Earth. Cameras on board the. vessel videotape the sights of the galaxy in hope of catching a glimpse at an alien waving 
shyly as the satellite 
passes by. 
Technology enables the 
world to see what 
hum.ans were 
once only able 
to imagine. 
Hollywood n o t ·.6---~--o n I y 
w o r s t 
fears and 
interests, but 
also allows the 
images to jump out at 
theater audiences and seem­
ingly conquer the human race. 
It is one thing to gaze at the stars and visualize a cute little green alien, yet quite a different experience to see that alien tear across the big screen and rip someone's head off. 
While both the existence and 
demeanor of aliens remain 
unknown, we are reminded by 
the motto of the "X-Files" that, 
"The truth is out there." 

• ACCENT SPEAKS 
Campus Under 
Alien Attack! 
By MARY BETH ELLIS 
Accent Copy Editor 
A
s a women's-college woman classically trained in analytic 
thinking, I am not one to lose my head over rumors of 
dubious origin, such as these outrageous reports I hear about the possible closing of Grace Hall. (You heard it here first: It ain't never gonna happen.) 
I am a by-God journalist. I do not jump to conclusions. I am unfailingly level-headed, coldly realistic, and purely practical, especially where the nefarious, alien forces-have infiltrated the campus 
Look around you, dammit! There's evidence from Saint Mary's College to Stepan! I defy you to deny that nothing but an all-out alien invasion could be responsible for ... 
... the expansion of Notre Dame Stadium. Why are we doing this? And if we have to do it, why did we choose the ugliest design possible? Was there a severe gray cqncrete shortage around here that no one told me about? · 
...the Folk Choir. 
... the operation of the SMCerMobile, also known as the Saturday Night Vomit Comet, also known as That Stupid Bus Running Entirely Independent of Anything Remotely Resembling What We in the Real World Refer to as a "Schedule." For those of you unfamiliar with the shuttle-this is a vehicle driven mostly by people hired on a Psychotic­American affirmative action program that always comes trundling cheerfully along ten minutes late when you have to be somewhere extremely important, such as class or Circus Night at North Dining Hall or your daily appointment to watch the men's soccer team practice. But if-God forbid -if you hap­pen to_show up at the stop one millisecond past schedule, the shuttle becomes the bus from "Speed" and zooms off to make its very important ten-millionth run to Married Student Housing. 
...the fact that Screw Your Roommate dances very rarely involve actual screwing. 
...the disturbingly sudden departure of Lou. Come on, this man was worshiped by college students, people not normally noted for their deference to authority. This man had people fill­ing in the rests of a great classical work with his first name. (I believe that the formal title of "The Lou Cheer", composed by Tchaikovsky, is "Beethoven's Fifth.") This man was forced to resign under alien duress and we know it. 
Young Conspiracy Theorist's Note': And has anyone heard from Lou lately? Hmmm? How about Knute Rockne? No, right? You think THAT'S a coincidence? (I realize that Knute Rockne is in fact dead, but... still.) 
... the Sorin Talent Show. I mean, please. 
...the fact that someone took down the perfectly functional, perfectly charming wood placard in front of the Morris Inn and replaced it with some horrible metal brown excuse of a sign that makes the entire building look like a rest stop in a National Park. 
..people at dorm Masses who say, "For the praise and glory of (yell here) GOD'S name, for our good and the good of all (yell even louder here) GOD'S church." 
...the somehow very gratifying theft of part of that stupid arrow sculpture in front of O'Shaughnessy. This occurrence, seemingly insignificant, provides us with vital extraterrestrial information: They have really, really bad taste. 
... the infirmaries around here. Last year, even though Saint Mary's College Health Services somehow managed to justify tacking a $90 fee onto my tuition, they still made me write them a large check for medication to cure a body-wracking cough and runny nose which was diagnosed as "ari upper respiratory infection, or maybe bronchitis, or possibly mono." And when my next-door neighbor went in with a headache, upset stomach, and a fever, she also returned with an exciting bottle of pills and a diagnosis of "an upper respiratory infection, or maybe bronchitis, or possibly mono." I mean, you could drag yourself up to that little window with your femur bone protruding from your thigh, and the nurse on call will immediately swing into the. Health Services Emergency Procedure of taking your tem­perature and pronouncing you felled by an upper respiratory infection. Or maybe bronchitis. Or possibly mono. 
Also the name of one of the doctors at Saint Mary's College Health Services is -I swear this is true-Dr. Doctor. 
...the 1995 Flanner Rave. 
.... the Lyons chick I know who once asked me the following question: "Are tornadoes attracted to metal? You always hear about them destroying trailer parks." ... the re-election of Bill Clinton. (Has absolutely nothing to do with the campus, I know, but there's no other way to explain it.) 
...Bill Clinton in general. 
... the cheer that goes, "LET'S go IRish (five rhythmic claps)!" Why is it that an arena full of supposedly well-educated people can't go two seconds without getting this out of sync? 
Oh -wait. Wrong file. I got my "Evidence Campus is Under Nefarious Alien Attack" papers mixed up with my "Evidence This University Is a Bunch of White Catholics From the Suburbs" folder. 
... the fact that I actually got 800 whole words out of this topic. 
-
-
• NHl 

Lemieux scores 600th goal 
-
-
=~ .. 
Wednesay, February 5, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
•NBA 

Rockets lose season high fifth straight 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN York. Associated Press Writer Hakeem Olajuwon had 26 
points and Mario Elie 22 for 
NEW YORK Houston, which dropped to 5-8 
Allan Houston scored 17 of in games that Barkley has his 28 points in the fourth quar­missed. ter, including six foul shots in Clyde Drexler, who returned the final 18 seconds, and the Sunday from a hamstring in­New York Knicks handed jury, aggravated it with 3:21 Houston its season-high fifth left in the fourth quarter and straight loss. 99-95 Tuesday did not return. His status was night. not immediately available. 
The game lacked some draw­ing power because Houston's New York took temporary Charles Barkley and New control of the game with a 19-8 York's Patrick Ewing sat out run to start the third period, with injuries, but it didn't lack opening a 65-57 lead. But the drama. Rockets started repeatedly 
The Knicks, winning for the pounding the ball down low to 16th time in 17 home games, exploit the absence of Ewing. made enough jump shots and The Hockets were within overcame a distinct size disad­three points, 79-76. when vantage to avenge a 20-point Drexler was called for charging loss at Houston on Jan. 14. on a fast break. He got a tech­
Charles Oakley, who was in­nical foul for arguing, and volved in a scuffle with Barkley Oakley found himself face-to­in the preseason and a war of face with Barkley in front of words since, had 16 points and Houston's bench. 10 rebounds and made the Oakley then got in a few ver­biggest shot of the night -a bal jabs of his own, Childs jumper from the corner to give made the technical foul shot New York a 93-90 lead with and Buck Williams followed 
1:05 left. with two more for an 82-76 
Kevin Willis, who had 16 lead. points and 14 rebounds, made After that, the only trash talk two free throws with 19.3 sec­coming out of Barkley's mouth onds left to pull the Hockets was aimed at his teammates back within one, but the Knicks during timeouts. stayed ahead the rest of the The Hor.kets eventually closed way as Houston made all six of to 90-88 on two foul shots by New York's attempts. Olajuwon with 1:59 left, but 
John Starks and Chris Childs Oakley made a jumper from the added 14 points each for New corner with 1 :05 left for a 93­90 lead. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center.. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

Lost: Sterling silver ring with black SUMMER JOBS Attention Campus Bandsl! I would rather read Ziggy than writing on one side and an ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS P.A. equipment for sale. Great Cream of the Valley Road .... Heather,
NOTICES 

engraved flower on the other side. PRESTIGE CHI OREN'S CAMPS condition! Amps, 4 Speakers, man-RUN AWAY! 
If found, please call Katy at x1490. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS itors, mics, pre-amp, etc. etc. Mean people suck ... Ziggy is less RUN AWAY! Spring Break Bahamas Party -REWARD-NEAR LAKE PLACID If interested, funny than a box of hair But remember: no soup for a Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 1·800-786-8373 call dave at 273-4318 while ... 
Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great LOST: Pioneer detachable face Eddie the Eagle we used to call him Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From for car CD player. was in a Volunteers Needed for FOOD· Amy and Sue: the Campbell's vari· 
TICKETS
Ft. Lauderdale! 1·800-678-6386 black carrying case. if found, SHARE: Help Feed The Homeless Isn't that just fascinating ety pack springbreaktravel.com please call 4-2079 (ask for Lee) for 1 hour a week. If interested call Mike 234-1078. NEED GA'S FOR UCONN Are you mocking me? Soup is good food Florida Spring Break! Panama City! CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439
WANTED

Room With Kitchen Near Bars Reliable babysitter needed, ages Is your band ready? Rent a full­$119! Daytona-Best Location $139! 6,4,2. Ten minutes from campus, NEED GA'S FOF.I PROVIDENCE production studio at $100 a day. I'll Strip cup with lemondade??? Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa ALASKA EMPLOYMENT· Earn up $5.25/hour, 15 hours/week. CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439 Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 An occasion for every Thursday Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav-to $3.000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, 277-3064 night el.com parks, resorts. Airfare! Is your band ready? Rent a full'
PERSONAL
1-800-678-6386 Food/Lodging! Get all the optiohs. The Lewis Coffee House needs production studio at $100 a day. I'll Roomies, 
Call (919)918-7767, ext.A154. poets, singers, and entertainers on Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 the butt kissing has begun SPRING BREAK Monday nights. If interested call Spring Break Bahamas Party PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS · Dimise X3577. Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All You play Irish Music? Sesuns at Yes. Greg, $160 for that polyester SANDPIPER·BEACON BEACH Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great Battell Park Cafe in Mishawaka. atrocity RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR etc. teaching simple conversational Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From 256-9041. Musicians welcome. 
FOR RENT 

POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT English. No languages/teaching Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 People on this campus need more TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE exp. required. springbreaktravel.com Attention Seniors soup
...........................

TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE (919)918-7767, Ext. W154. Homes for Rent for 97-98 BIGGEST PARTY. ADT Security 232-2595 Florida Spring Break! Panama City! FREE FOOD NIGHT Hey Liz. 
......................

FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 FEMALE AND MALE CAMP Room With Kitchen Near Bars I always wanted to visit the Pacific WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM COUNSELORS needed for out-4 Bedrm. furnished house. sec. sys-$119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Tonight at Senior Bar starting 7 pm. Northwest... standing Maine camps! CAMP tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Get there early! I Love. THE COPY SHOP VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR location, 109 N. St. Peter Beach Hilton $1691 springbreaktrav-Cathy LaFortune Student Center for boys. Each located on magnifi-233·9947 el.com ND SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS 
Phone 631-COPY cent lakefront setting with excep-1-800-678-6386 $10.00 Maybe I'll just get a job in London Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight tional facilities. Over 1 00 positions NICE HOMES FOR NEXT CALL MIKE at 288-0116 Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight at each camp for heads and assis-SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND JAZZERCISE Court& Lo-Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight tants in tennis, basketball, baseball, IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS Very close to campus It's so nice to be accepted. I didn't 
.................................
Thur.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, 2773097 277·0111 even know I was berng tested. You 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. • 7:00 p.m. field hockey. roller hockey, swim-elsie's promise guys are cool. Sat.: Noon· 6:00p.m. ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, Fuzzy Bear. happy anniversary. with special guests 
FOR SALE

Sun.: Noon -Midnight water-skiing, archery, weight train-Love, Sugar Bear 420 pounds of ..... Roommates are off limits, without a 
Open Early, Late, & Weekends ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­ at  doubt!!  
tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi- A secure, loving couple wishes to  Bridget's  
COME IN AND PLACE A VALEN-dance TINE CLASSiFIED FOR YOUR Uazz, tap, ballet), nature study,  um mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  begin a family by adopting an infant. We can provide a bright,  Wednesday, Feb.5.................................  From now on, no more crabbiness. I swear. unless it is in response to  
SWEETHEART OR YOUR backpacking, horseback riding,  (219) 674-2352  happy future for'a child.  the crabbiness of others.  
FRIENDS!!! DEADLINE IS 3 PM ropes course. trip leaders, mountain  All allowable medical & legal  Top 10 from Miami Gymnastics  
ON 2/13. biking, riflery, general (w/youngest  WOODBRIDGE 1-BEDROOM  expenses paid. Please call  Meet  Summer school will be awecome  
ILOST & FOUND I campers). Also looking for secre­taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp dates approx. June 21·Aug 21. Top  CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900 TA'MARA 273·5166  1-800-292-5363 or call our attorney collect at 217-352-1800. Karol & Rob  10. Look at these sad stories on my hands. 9. PB&J reunited and it feels so  So what if you were here last sum­mer, I wasn't  
salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­ '92 HONDA ACCORD LX.  good.  Early happy birthday to Montana  
HELP!! ing, and travel allowance. MEN­ BEAUTIFUL. $8,500 OR B/0.  Electrolysis by Rebecca  8. Hey, you dance like Blossom  
Lost my class ring between CAMP CEDAR for boys, 175il  233·5537.  Blend Method 67 4-6933  (Sandy)  Fatty D in the homestretch of the  
Sorin, SOH. and 06. Great Beacon Street, Brookling, MA  7. Does Rich know he has his shirt  4x100  
sentimental value. If found, 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888­ For Sale: Ethernet Card, 3-com  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  on?  
please call John at X2213 or 844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA,  3C509 for IBM compatibles $65  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  6. Fitz's car is CRAZY!  HGOC -enough said  
drop by 319. PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  call Allen 1-4308  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! I!  5. I can't believe Bryce just said  
$$REWARD$$ jobs@campvega.cor]1, http://cam- The highest quality color copies  that.  Grant Hill, Fedorov, Yzerman,  
pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE  New Sony Play Station $150 284­ are now available at  4....cause the West Coast party  Sanders. Tramrnel, no city has  
.LOST: detatchable face for a WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME  5223  THE COPY SHOP  don't stop.  classier sports stars than Detroit.  
Pioneer car CD player and soft CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  LaFortune Student Center  3. Does Bob know where he lives?  Cincinatti, I don't think so.  
black carrying case. if found, LaFortune Student Center, Dooley  New Unopened External Zip  Phone 631-COPY  2. There's a 7 yr. old pumping the  
please call X 2079. REWARD Room from 1DAM to 4PM. NO  Drive-SCSI $175 OBO  keg!  Hello -I'm thinking about you  
APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  Call Steve 280-8124  Ed Leader is my hero  1. Do girls go to Notre Dame?  Goodbye.  

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Mario Lemieux waited until the final minute to become the seventh member of the NHL's 600-goal club, scoring an empty-net goal with 56 seconds left as the Pittsburgh Penguins held off Vancouver 6-4 Tuesday night. 
The fans chanted, "Mar-i-o, Mar-i-o. Mar-i-o" and threw hundreds of hats into the rink -normally a display reserved for a hat trick. Lemieux ac­knowledged a standing ovation with a wave of his stick as the video board replayed historic goals from his 13-year career. 
Lemieux accomplished the feat in his 719th game, only one fewer than it took Wayne Gretzky to do it. Lemieux, who has 600 goals and 859 assists, also joined Gretzky, Gordie Howe, Marcel Dionne and Phil Esposito as the only players with 600 goals and 800 assists. 
The other 600-goal scorers were Mike Gartner and Bobby Hull, who finished with 610 goals. Lemieux should soon pass him and move into sixth place on the all-time list. 
Joe Mullen also edged closer to an historic goal, scoring his 498th career goal as Pittsburgh improved to 17-5-3 at home. Mullen needs two more to be­come the first U.S.-born player to score 500 goals. 
Mike Sillinger scored twice for the Canucks, who rallied from deficits of 1-0, 2-1, 4-2 before Jyrki Lumme appeared to tie it with 2:06 remaining. But the goal was waved off when Trevor Linden was detected in the crease, preserv­ing Pittsburgh's 7-0-1 streak at home against Vancouver since 
Jan. 7, 1989.  
Blues Red Wings  1 1  
DETROIT  

The team that gave Scotty Bowman his first NHL victory almost 30 years ago denied him No. 1,000 Tuesday night. 
Bowman remained holding at 999 regular-season wins as St. Louis rookie Jim Campbell scored an unassisted goal in the third period to forge a 1-1 tie between the Blues and Bowman's Detroit Red Wings. 
No other coach in the NHL has won 1,000 games. 
Bowman started his career in St. Louis in 1967. His first 110 victories came with the expan­sion Blues, a team he took to the Stanley Cup finals three times. 
Campbell's 18th goal came at 
5:15 of the third period. His shot, from the right circle, car­omed off the cross bar and went in behind goalie Mike Vernon. 
The Blues outshot the Red Wings 11-7 in the third period and each team had 25 shots on goal heading into overtime. Vernon came up with a clutch save on Geoff Courtnall at close range with 35 seconds remain­ing to force the extra five min­utes. 
The Blues outshot Detroit 2-1 in the overtime. St. Louis goalie Grant Fuhr made a good save on Martin Lapointe's shot from 

the left circle with 18 seconds remaining to preserve the tie. Nicklas Lidstrom scored his ninth goal on a power play at 
3:33 of the first period, giving Detroit a 1-0 lead. Listrom took a pass from Steve Yzerman and blazed a slapshot past Fuhr, who was screened by Brendan Shanahan. The goal, from just inside the blue line, came while Brett Hull was off, serving Fuhr's penalty for slashing Tomas Holmstrom. 
It was the fourth overtime in the last five games at Joe Louis Arena. 
Bowman's 200th, 300th, 400th and SOOth victories ­along with five Stanley Cup championships -came during his eight years with Montreal in the 1970s. One of those Cups came in 1977, following a 60­win season by the Canadiens, a record that stood until the Red Wings won 62 games last sea­son. 
Islanders 4 
Mighty Ducks 3 

UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
Derek Armstrong's fluke goal with 6:48 left in regulation led the New York Islanders to a 4-3 victory over the Anaheim Mighty Ducks on Tuesday night. 
The winning goal came when Islanders d.efenseman Doug Houda took a shot from the right point that goalie Mikhail Shtalenkov stopped. The puck popped up in the air, and de­fenseman Dmitri Mironov tried to bat it out of the way. He in­stead banked it off Armstrong's shoulder and into the net. 
I I I 
I 
Wednesday, February 5, 1997 . The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 ----1 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the 10ffice of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Matt Phelan, a native of Gaithersburg, Maryland, is a junior Marketing & Computer Applications major. Matt resides in Flanner Hall where he serves as Athletic Commissioner as well as their Hockey and Lacrosse coach. Last year Matt coached the Hockey team to the lnterhall champi·onship. Most recently Matt served as Flanner's Late Night Olympic Hall Representative. He helped organize the 33 teams that represented Flanner during LNO. Flanner, paired with Knott and McCandless, finished second in the competition. Matt also sold 300 LNO raffle tickets while helping RecSports to raise $7,782.10 during Late Night Olympics. All proceeds will be donated to Special Olympics. 
Recipients receive <r~ merchandise from the 



VARSITY SHOP 


"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 



"Specializing in Authentic 
Upcoming Events & Deadlines 
Downhill Ski Tri Friday, February 7 Swiss Valley Register and Pay at RecSports Deadline is Thursday, February 6 
One Ni ht Ultimate Frisbee Tournamen Saturday, February 8-Loftus Single Elimination Tournament Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadline is Thursday, February 6 Journament is Limited to First 8 Teams to Enter 
Openings are still available in many Aerobic classes! 
For More Information Call 631-6100 

Look for this award to appear·in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <J:~ 






zas. 

merchandise courtesy of <J:.~ and the vilbi%' located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
a'l 'Is.
vilbi%' is open Monday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Phone: 631-8560). 

I I 
I 
-"-·· 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February 5, 1997 
• COLlEGE BASKETBALL 


Recruit 
continued from page 20

Hoosiers struggling, Clemson rolls on 
...... 
i 
I --.e­
1 
I 
I. 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
By GREG SMITH 
Associated Press Writer 

IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Andre Woolridge scored 18 points and three other Hawkeyes were in double fig­ures Tuesday to lead No. 25 Iowa to a 75-67 win over No. 25 Indiana, which played most of the game with its two leading scorers on the bench. 
Guy Rucker and Kent McCausland each scored 12 points and Ryan Bowen had 11 points and 13 rebounds for the Hawkeyes (16-5 overall, 7-2 Big Ten), who have won 10 of their last 12 games while re-entering the Top 25 this week for the first time since the first week of the season. The Hoosiers (17 -7, 4-6) lost for the third straight time, the first time that's hap­pened since the 1989-90 sea­son. 
Coach Bob Knight proiiJ.ised to bench some of his juniors and replace them with fresh­men after a loss to Illinois last Sunday, and he kept his word. He kept Andrae Patterson, the team's leading scorer at 15.7 points, on the bench for the first 12:32 of the game while Neil Reed, averaging 13.3 points, didn't come in until the 
11:24 mark of the first half. 

Patterson finished with 10 points and left the game with what appeared to be an injury to his right ankle. He played only 15 minutes. Reed played just 16 minutes while also scor­ing 10 points. 
Freshman Jason Collier led the Hoosiers with 16 points and nine rebounds. Charlie Miller had 11 points for Indiana while freshman Michael Lewis, start­ing in place of Reed, had just two points but collected 11 as­sists. Haris Mujezinovic, start­ing in place of Patterson at cen­ter, had six points. 
Despite the new lineup, 
Indiana led 36-34 at halftime. But McCausland, the Big Ten's leading 3-point shooter who wasn't expected to play because of a hip injury, drained two long-range shots to key an 8-4 run to open the second half and give the Hawkeyes a 42-40 lead -their first of the game -with 17:01 remaining. 
The teams traded baskets for the next several minutes and a shot by Miller brought Indiana to within 56-55 with 8:50 left, but Iowa scored seven of the next nine points, capped by Woolridge's 3-pointer, to open a 63-57 edge with 5:18 to play and the Hoosiers never got clos­er than three the rest of the way. 
No. 10 Clemson 69 
Western Kentucky 55 
CLEMSON, S.C. 
Greg Buckner scored 11 of his 17 points in the second half Tuesday night to help No. 10 Clemson pull away to a 69-55 victory over Western Kentucky. 
Buckner had six points in a 12-0 run as the Tigers (18-4) snapped out of a spell in which they had lost three of their last four games. 
Tony Lovan scored 15 points to lead the Hilltoppers (1 0-10), who saw a three-game winning streak snapped. 
Western Kentucky has won only once in 16 games against Atlantic Coast Conference teams. 
Buckner, Clemson's leading scorer with a 15.6 ave.rage, managed just six points before heating up midway through the second half. 
Western Kentucky led 44-40 after two free throws by Joe 
. Harney with 11:41 remaining, but the Hilltoppers went score­less on their next six posses­sions as Clemson took control. Terrell Mcintyre started the 


SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PRESENTS 
O~f ~l(jNJ ULTI~Alf fRI~Bff TOUR~A~f~T f>aturda~, fe.bruat'f S 
S:oo 'PM -Loftu& f>port& Center 
Single Elimination Tournament Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadline is Thursday, February 6 Tournament is Limited to First 8 Teams to Enter 
run with a 3-pointer, then Buckner broke out with a rim­rattling jam off an outlet pass from Tom Wideman to put the Tigers ahead 45-44 with 10:57 left. 
Buckner followed with a dri­ving layup and a 12-foot jumper, and Wideman hit a free throw. Harold Jamison capped the burst with two free throws for a 52-44 lead. 
Ravon Ferris broke Western Kentucky's cold spell with a baseline jumper with 7:01 to play, but the Hilltoppers could not get closer than five points the rest of the way. 

"Carswell has the whole package with size, speed and strength," Bobby Burton of the National Recruiting Advisor said. "He could grow into a linebacker, but has the speed and cover ability to make a great strong safety." 
"He's a big time rover talent who has the size to control the run from the secondary and the ability to cover," Allen Wallace of Super Prep commented. 
National Recruiting Advisor ranks him as the seventh best all-purpose back and SuperPrep considers him the eleventh best defensive back prospect. 
Taking his time: Considered the top tailback and top offen­sive player in the nation, Minor will announce his decision this morning during a school assembly. Notre Dame and Florida State are the two lead­ers and Louisiana State has fallen back into a longshot role. 
One source, quoting track teammates of Minor, stated that Minor will sign with the Irish. 
Minor has stated that Notre Dame had been is favorite, but was concerned about playing time now that Driver had com­mitted to the Irish. This may not be a legitimate concern considering Driver may play receiver for the Irish. 
Another factor in Minor's decision is Seminole star run­ning back Warrick Dunn. Minor attends the same high school that Dunn did. At first, this was considered a benefit for the Seminoles, now it may be a postivc for the Irish. Minor has expressed concerns over being continuously com­pared to Dunn. 
As of late Tuesday evening, Minor will wear a gold helmet. Whether it will be plain or have a spear on it is the question. 
God gives each person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
-:­

A one...year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
-:­

Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631~6385 
-·~.----~---~------­
Wednesday, February 5, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL •NBA 


Balanced scoring leads 'Nova Magic shooting 
Associated Press next 14 points and the the opening 20 minutes, made Wildcats took an 18-17 lead three 3-pointers in the first 


crucial in. victory 
VILLANOVA, Pa. with 7:44 left in the half. West half's last three minutes, in­
Alvin Williams and Tim Virginia regained the lead with cluding an off-balance, 26­Thomas led five Wildcats in a dunk by Malone and a footer at the buzzer that put double figures as No. 16 jumper by Jefferson. the Mountaineers ahead 38­Villanova used a 15-2 spurt at 32. the start of the second half to Owens, who had 14 points in beat West Virginia 81-70 Tuesday night. 
Trailing 38-32 at halftime, Villanova (17 -5, 8-4 Big East) went on the big run over the second halfs first five minutes and West Virginia (13-6, 7-5) never recovered. 
Williams had 23 points, Thomas 16, Jason Lawson 15: John Celestand 13 and Chuck Kornegay 10 as the Wildcats ended the Mountaineers' win­ning streak at four games. Lawson also had 12 rebounds and eight blocks, the latter tied his career high. 
Damian Owens led ·West Virginia with 23 points, while Seldon Jefferson had 13. 
Villanova shot 55 percent 
(16-of-29) in the second half. 
Kornegay, scoreless in the 
first half, had the first six 
points of the second-half run. 
Celestand had the next five 
and Williams and Thomas fin­
ished up with baskets as 
Villanova took a 4 7-40 lead. 
West Virginia would get no 
closer than three points the 
rest of the way. with Owens 
hitting a jumper that made it 
62-59 with 4:44 left. 
During the Wildcats' spurt, 
West Virginia turned the ball 
over five times. missed four 
shots. had two more blocked 
and made only one field goaL 
The Mountaineers set the 
first-half pace, outscoring 
Villanova 11-4 over the first 
four minutes as the Wildcats 
turned it over four times. 
But Williams and Lawson Alvin Williams led the Villanova scoring attack with 23 points last night combined to score Villanova's 

~Night  
8:00 pm  LEAVING LAS VEGAS  
10:00 pm  BEAUTIFUL GIRLS  
12:00 am  BASIC INSTINCT  

HCouples or non-couples" 
Free admission 
Saturday Feb.8th 8pm-2am 



La Fortune 
Ballroom Join us for a night of unrequited LOVE... 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

Rony. Seikaly scored 22 points and the Orlando Magic shut down Reggie Miller over the last three quarters to beat the Indiana Pacers 111-87 Tuesday night. 
Miller led Indiana with 18 points, but missed 11 of 17 shots and only scored seven after a productive opening quarter. 
The victory was the 11th in 13 games for Orlando, which has rebounded from an injury­related slow start to climb three games over .500 with one to play before this week­end's All-Star break. 
Seikaly was 8-for-10 from the field and grabbed 11 rebounds. 
Horace Grant had 18 points and Penny Hardaway con­tributed 16 points and nine as­sists, while Nick Anderson and Gerald Wilkins played tough defense on Miller. 
Antonio Davis came off the bench to score 14 points and grab 13 rebounds for Indiana, which trailed 66-62 before Orlando broke the game open in the third quarter. 
The Magic shot 55 percent in the first two quarters and led 55-49 at the half. Grant led the way with 16 points, going 7­for-9 from the field to offset Miller's 15 on 5-of-12 shooting for Indiana. 
Dennis Scott rebounded from a slow start to help Orlando open an 18-point lead in the third quarter. After missing all five of his 3-point attempts in the opening half, he made three in a row in an 11-point period. 
The treys jumpstarted the 
Magic, who got nine points 
from Seikaly in an 18-4 run 
that put Orlando up 84-66. 
The Pacers trailed by 16 going 
into the fourth quarter and 
didn't get closer than 15 the 
r Save $50 per person! J, 


m,:=~ 
• 
~'~' 11~ mi::;;l,ijt~):!;;
OOlll m.m miDI!. 
J I ' 

'!.~~e,abreak.com 
~BF,IEA1{<, 
TAI~F. A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL 
rest of the way. 
Ne(s 111 
Grizzlies 105 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Rookie Kerry Kittles had a career-high 32 points as the New Jersey Nets defeated Vancouver 111-105 Tuesday night d~spite a 40-point effort by the Grizzlies' Anthony Peeler. 
Kendall Gill added 25 points and Shawn Bradley had 16 points and a season-high 16 rebounds for the ,Nets, who learned just before the game that Jayson Williams, the NBA's · second-leading re­bounder, will undergo thumb surgery that might sideline the rest of the season. 
Even without Williams, the Nets dominated inside, outre­bounding the league's third­worst rebounding team 62-41. 
Peeler's 40 points were a ca­reer high and also a franchise record for Vancouver. Shareef Abdur-Rahim added 24 points and 11 rebounds and Bryant Reeves had 20 points for Vancouver, which is now 3-20 on the road. 
New Jersey took control with a 25-9 spurt that spanned the end of the second quarter and the start of the third. 
Bradley scored six straight points for New Jersey late in the run, which Gill capped with a jumper for a 75-57 lead with 7:26 left in the quarter. 
Vancouver closed the gap to 89-81 early in the fourth quar­ter. The Nets built the lead back to 14 before the Grizzlies made a late run and closed to 109-105 on a 3-pointer by Greg Anthony with 10.3 sec­onds to go. 
Kittles, whose previous high was 30, hit two free throws to clinch the victory. Peeler's pre­vious high was 30, while the Grizzlies' previous franchise high was 37 by Abdur-Rahim earlier this year. 
Please Recycle .The Observer 
• 


,­
I I 
I 
page 16 
•NBA 

Rodman reinstated with Stern warning 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Dennis Rodman, suspended by the NBA since kicking a cameraman on Jan. 15, was reinstated by the league on Tuesday and will return to the Chicago Bulls on Feb. 11. 
However, NBA commissioner David Stern warned that the Bulls star could face banish­ment from the league if he per­sists in such conduct. 
Rodman's agent, Dwight Manley, said that his client, as a gesture o1' appreciation to his fans, will play his first 11 games after the suspension "for free, and donate the money on behalf of himself and the Bulls to 11 assorted chari­ties." 
The suspension will have lasted 11 games, costing Rodman more than $1 million in salary and incentives. Rodman is eligible to play against the Charlotte Hornets, the Bulls' first game after the All-Star break. 
Speaking from his office in Newport Beach, Calif., Manley said that Rodman will probably watch Wednesday night's Bulls-Lakers game at the Forum in Inglewood, Calif. ­the 11th and final game of the suspension -on television at Manley's house. 
Rodman, who had been or­dered to undergo counseling during his suspension, met Stern last Friday to make his case for reinstatement. 
"I am satisfied that Dennis 

recognizes that his conduct in 
the Minnesota game was unac­
ceptable," Stern said. "Dennis 
told me that while he does not 
plan to change the way he 
plays the game, he will con­
form his conduct on the play­
ing court to acceptable stan­
dards, and he knows that any 
further incidents of this nature 
may end his career in the 
NBA." 
Also at the Jan. 31 meeting 

was Dr. Lloyd Baccus, medical 
director of the league's player 
assistance program. 
"What the commissioner 

wanted was professional input 
in reaching his decision and 
February 12, 1997 5·00 p.lll·
• . \ease ca\1631-9126) at this tune. P 
• (lfyoucannotcome 2nd floor
C ter-
Joyce .e~ usiness office 
Locauon. B · n Rootn 
ReceptlO 
the doctor was able to provide that," NBA spokesman Brian Mcintyre said. 
It was not clear whether Rodman had actually under­gone the counseling ordered by Stern. 
''I'm glad that the meeting proved fruitful with the com­missioner last week, and that we can put this incident behind us," Manley said. 
When asked why Rodman decided to make the charitable donation, Manley said: "Because he'll be the first per­son to say, 'I deserve more money and· pay me more money,' and when he makes a mistake, he'll be the first per­son to say, 'I don't deserve the money,' and he wants to thank his fans for sticking with him. 
"It's a first,'' Manley added. "Whereas sports is so wrapped up in money all the time, he wants to make a statement that Dennis Rodman plays from his heart and not from his wallet, and he's out there with one intention, and that's to win. 
"The best way to show that is giving up money not by order, but by choice." 
Manley said Rodman will do­nate his regular-game salary, not his deferred money, and that the suspension plus the donated money will total "well over $1 million." 
"He's chomping at the bit" to return to the Bulls, Manley said. 
Rodman, whose body pierc­
ings, tattoos, rainbow hair­
styles and cross-dressing have 
drawn as much attention as his 
rebounding prowess, has been 
suspended nine times since 
1992 and three times since last 
March. During this suspension, 
the Bulls had an 8-1 record. 
Rodman, who has led the 
league in rebounding the last 
five years, had been fined and 
suspended without pay after he 
kicked courtside cameraman 
Eugene Amos during a game 
between the Bulls and 
Minnesota Timberwolves. 
After he was suspended Jan. 
17, Rodman reached an out-of­
court settlement with Amos, 
agreeing to pay him $200,000. 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 5, 1997 
• NFl 




Parcells hired as "consultant" 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press Writer 

HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 
If they couldn't get him as coach, the New York Jets got Bill Parcells as a consultant -a contractual end run that the New England Patriots decried as a "transparent farce" and vowed to challenge. 
Under the Jets' plan, longtime Parcells aide Bill Belichick fills in as coach until Parcells takes over as coach and chief of foot­ball operations at midnight on Feb. 1, 1998. 
The Jets would get the benefit of Parcells' football wisdom and be able to implement the pro­gram that brought Super Bowl 
The Dome Yearbook is now­
taking applications for Editor in Chief 1997-98. 
Applications are available at the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) and should be returned by February 14. Any questions, please call the Dome office at 631-7524 

Ill 
:z: 
1­


ALUMNI
Ill 

SENIOR 
:z: 
1­
victories to the New York Giants in 1987 and 1991 and the AFC championship to New England last season -and still keep the No. 1 pick in this year's draft. 
Or maybe not. 

Commissioner Paul Tagliabue already has forbidden the Jets from offering Parcells a football job in 1997 without the Patriots' permission. 
"This so-called consulting agreement is a transparent farce," the Patriots said in a statement, " ... the latest in a series of acts by the Jets and Bill Parcells which further demon­strates it has been their inten­tion all along to have Bill Parcells become head coach of the Jets for the '97 season." 
Parcells insisted, however, the consultant's position would be a matter of advice, not action, and therefore not a violation of his contract with the Patriots. 
''I'm not allowed to partake in anything on the field, and I am not under any illusions on that, and I will not have any final de­cisions on personnel," Parcells said via telephone at a crowded news conference. "I will just act in an advisory capacity." 
He said the Jets received ap­proval from the NFL for their plan, but a league statement said "the Jets were neither denied nor given permission to make a consulting agreement with Parcells for 1997." 

------------------------~-------­
Wednesday, February 5, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• RECRU!TING • HOlTZ NEWS 
Davie unveils initial recruiting class 
By MIKE DAY noon. Assistant SportS Editor As the successor to Lou Holtz, Davie hopes to ink a 
The cupboard is bare, and group of athletes that even his the well has run dry. Pick any predecesor would be proud of. cliche you like. as there is no And given the many needs on denying the Notre Dame foot­both sides of the football, Davie ball progrtam has several and his new staff certainly had 
needs to address heading into their work cut out for them. next season. "There are some needs we 
With today's unveiling of the definitely need to fill before Class of 2001, fans and critics next season," said Davie. alike will finally see how Bob "We've got to find the type of Davie fared in his first chal­people that will excel in all ar­
lenge as head coach of Notre eas at Notre Dame." Dame. Whether it be the need Indeed, there is much work for speed or an attempt to add to be done out there. Today, depth to one of many areas fans will find out what has decimated by graduation, the been done to try to address Irish hope to find the answers these needs. they are looking for when the Look in tomorrow's Observer highly anticipated signing pe­for complete recruiting results. riod commences this after­
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Tae Kwon Do -Students are instructed in with World TaeKwonDo Federation techniques. Jhis semester -long course meets Sundays from 3-4 P·p:i· in RQckne Rm. 30l''''!Yoti must regj.ster in advance at RecSports and the fee is $20, ,J;:' 
Jazz Dance-A Jazz Dance class will be offered Monday and Wednesday from 6-7:15 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. The fee is $30 for the semester. 
Cross Country Skiing-Rentals are available from Fri., Sat.,W and Sun., from 11-4 p.m. The rentals are located in the Golf Shop. Call 1-6425 for more information. 

!· 
! 
.. 
,:t
'; r-----------------------­
w v I 
N E W S 
our News Department has open positions for: 








newscasters 
. and 

talk-show hosts 
CALL 1-6888 


am 640 
N E w s 
f • 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The William and Katherine Devers Proaram in Dante Studies in· conjunction with the Medieval Institute presents: 
;:;.·.·.·.·.· 
.... 
Department of Special Collectldh;, 102 Hesburgh Library A reception will follow the lecture; all are welcome. For further information contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at 631-5610. 
Holtz joins commercial sector 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT, Calif. 
Instead of motivating football players, former Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz will be preach­ing teamwork to employees of United States Filter Corp. 
The California-based com­pany said Tuesday that Holtz has accepted a job as a motiva­tional speaker and customer relations spokesman for its in­ternational operations. 
·Holtz will travel to United States Filter Corp. facilities to direct seminars and discussions on teamwork and also will be involved in trade shows. Financial terms weren't dis­closed. 
U.S. Filter, with more than $2 billion in annual revenue, is a global provider of water and wastewater treatment equip­ment, systems and services. It has 341 sales and service facili­ties and 42 manufacturing plants . 
"As our growth in revenues 
and earnings accelerate, we 
continue to see an increase in 
the cross-selling of our prod­
ucts between divisions of the 
company, U.S. Filter 
Chairman Richard J. 
Heckmann said in a statement. 
"With Lou Holtz helping to 
build our culture of integration 
and teamwork, we believe the 
interaction between divisions 
w_ill increase," he said. 
Holtz announced Nov. 19 that 
he was stepping down after 11 
seasons at Notre Dame. He left 
with a 100-30-2 record, win­
ning one national champi­
onship and more games at 
Notre Dame than any other 
coach except Knute Rockne. 
Holtz did not immediately re­turn a phone message from The Associated Press. 


l 
l 
I 
l 
l 
.. I I I 
l I I 
I 
l 

~--~--~---~---­

------~-­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 5, 1997 

•. 
·­
.... 
that ball was spinning like a top, right on target."

8-Ball 
Luckily for the Irish, they also 
continued from page 20 
second half, but after a couple times up and down the court, I got pretty loose," said Miller who finished with 13 points. "Luckily, I had some open shots and was able to make them." 
"He (Miller) had his rhythm," MacLeod said. "You could see had a vital scoring balance. That may sound like beating a dead horse, but the Irish usual­ly resemble a posthumous thor­oughbred when only one player attains double-figures. 
"We had a lot of people mak­ing contributions throughout the course of the game," MacLeod added. "It seemed like every player we used tonight was involved in one way or another." 
The Irish led 38-33 at half­time, but with under 12 min­utes in the second half, trailed 48-43. St. John's Zendon Hamilton (28 points, 12 rebounds) did most of the dam­age as the Irish could not con­tain the Red Storm post game. 
St. John's grabbed 21 offen­sive rebounds, playing volley­ball several times until the ball went into the net. Still, Notre Dame (10-9, 4-7) stayed within 
· striking distance. "It definitely was an ugl.Y game, especially at the begin­ning of the second half," Miller said. "Our defense kept us in the game." "The encouraging thing for us is that we were able to with­stand that really tough offen­sive segment for us," MacLeod said. "We managed to hang on and make big plays down the stretch." MacLeod was impressed with the play of both Lopez and Hamilton as their quickness presented major problems. "I think you can see why Lopez and Hamilton are rated so high," MacLeod added. Lopez was just about on his season average with 16 points. but appeared tentative at times. Miller also contained 

24th Annual Summer Programs ND-SMC Students Meeting February lOth Carroll Hall, SMC 6:30p.m. London Rome May 21-]une 20 June 15-July 14 Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, and Switzerland Courses Offered in Business & Economics, Education, English, History, Italian, Justice, Music Pizza! Past students and Faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at 284~4460 or 272~3 726  
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME Present BRITANNICA ONLINE (On trial until February 12) I Finding information has never been so easy as when you use the Libraries' newest reference resource. The Britannica Online providesyou with immediate access to thousands of articles, online graphics and other forms of multimedia through its intuitive search windows. The Britannica is available to faculty, students and staff through the Libraries' homepage. • The URL is: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndlibs E-mail your comments to: richter.8@nd.edu­ 

him, even forcing Lopez to throw up an air ball with the Irish clinging to a four point lead. 
"He's (Lopez) a lot quicker than I am, so I tried to give him a little more slack," Miller added. "I think he'd rather take it to the hole than shoot the jumper and that's pretty much what he did." 
"Pete and Admore were both strong in the second half when Pat didn't score the ball that much," MacLeod said. "It's great to see that other players are comfortable to go into the game and shoot the ball." 
Also makes them more com­fortable to answer questions after the game. 


A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
john Huston's 


Moby Dick 
starring Gregory Peck and Orson Welles 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE 

-~------~----~-­
Wednesday, February 5, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
AFTER l GRADUATE. FROM "QUALIT'( SCHOOL" I'LL 
BE. A QUALITY BLA.CK­BELT MASTER. 
,. 
0 
() 
.J 
0.. 
@) 
,.
"' 
.. 
0 

Y'KNOW, THOUSANDS OF ALUMNI COME TO 5EE THE GROITO~~ERY 
YEAR. !-_..,..,....~:-) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Strike out on your own, no matter how much cold water others pour on your ideas. Time will prove you are 
on the right track 1 Ditching a nega­tive habit or attitude is the key to making a new professional or per­sonal partnership a success. Show your upbeat, cooperative· side. Who you know will assume greater importance next fall. Consult an 
HAPPY NATIONAL SIGNING 

accountant if concerned about a tax 
burden. You may be able to take
CONGRATS NOTRE DJ\M£ 

more deductions than you realiz,e. CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
FOOTBAU... ON A GREAT 
RECRUITING YEAR f 

THIS DAY: home run king Hank Aaron, actress Barbara Hershey, R&B singer Bobby Brown, actress
MIKE PETERS 
Jennifer Jason Leigh. 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Give a newcomer the benefit of the doubt. Doing favors for people will put them in your debt. Be careful not to push your luck if you like to gamble. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Seek new friendships in your neigh­borhood. Joining an athletic club or walking group will help you find stimulating companionship. Old friends finally reveal the truth about something that has puzzled you for many years. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your plans could change at the last minute. Do not despair. Unexpected social success comes when you meet new people. You enjoy playing the role of listener now. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-Ju1y 22): A kind deed will bring you new under­standing and favors. Guard against
I5 THE TilLE METAPHORIC ~ 
1 WA.5 

friends or neighbors taking advan­OR IS THERE A. CAANCE. THAT 
tage of your good nature. Distance yourself from their family or finan­
'<OU'LL eE BEATEN 
cial problems. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A 
NECESSARY? 

5EN5ELE55 DURING A. 
stranger's actions will intrigue you.
I'M NOT 501\E.. lBRE.AI<.OUT 5E.55ION? 

HAVEN'T DONE \ 2lP ZIP zrP ZIP. THE PP.,E.-COUF\5E. ( READING YE.T. 
Let emotional detachment work in your favor. Refuse to be intimidated by changes in the work place. Use computer technology to streamline office procedures and increase pro­ductivity. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Go ahead and explore a new area of interest. instead if harboring vague wonies about your health, do some­thing to improve it. Consult doctors and nutritionists. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Vol­unteer to help with ·a fund-raising drive. Others admire your tireless work on behalf of those in need. Romance continues to be a top pri­ority. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If confusion threatens to upset your plans, take things one step at a time. Others are counting on your strength and common sense during a family emergency. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your tenacity becomes apparent when obstacles surface. Being your own business promoter begins to pay off. A former competitor wants to join your successful team. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be more practical when it comes to making financial choices. Postpone luxury purchases and stay within your budget. Comparison shoppers can save big dollars by checking newspaper sales ads. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Playing games in business or 
romance could backfire. Others will 
question your sincerity. Work in har­
mony with an associate whose tal­
ents compliment your own. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 
conventional approach works best in 
business now. Avoid risky moves: 
use credit prudently. A cheerful 
romantic partner will help you see a 
situation in a more favorable light. 

l
-
I 

rr---i;:
... 
0 
() 
"' 
·~ 
w 

CROSSWORD 

1 Garden dweller 35 Court org. Clement Moore 
5 Cassius and 64 Nefariousness37 Wee bitcompany, in 65 Opposite of
"Julius Caesar" 38 Convivial holiday affair 
viejo10 Achievement 

66 Campus V.I.P.
42 Pub needs

14 Prefix with byte 67-fide (bad
43 Positionsor buck 

faith)44 Part of TNT15 Run with a hon? 
68 Bit of parsley
45 Like Clifford 

16 Site of the MGM 69 Bristle
Odets's

Grand 
"Waiting for 17 December 25 
Lefty" 

DOWN
activity 
48 "Whip It" rock 20Severe group 1 Sheriff Tupper of "Murder, She
21 These may get 49 Smoke signal Wrote"
a welcome sight message, maybe 2 Agric. or H.H.S.,
22 Pick apart e.g.
so Kind of bond

24 Hereabout 3 Ripener
52 Baltic port

25 ---relief 
4 Frenzied
54 Used a 28Creeks 5 Political
caret-and-stick 30 Drafted approach? 
moderate 6 School subj. 7 Hits, in slang 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE a Stage extension 
9 Looked lasciviously 10 Unlimited choice 11 Counting-out word 
12 Add to the pot 13 Play horseshoes 18 Mythical flier 
19Scorch 
25 British swaggerer 26 Pale 
Koussevitzky 

Puzzle by Nancy S. Rosa 
29 Sedate 
31 Habits 
32 In-(not yet 
born) 
33 Golden apple bestower 36 Daisylike bloom 39 Patron of Columbus 40 Marine, informally 
41 Equiangular . geometrical shape 
46 Sagan of "Cosmos" 

47 Certain missiles 58 Spinnaker, e.g. 51 Mounter's 57 Active one assist 59 1957 Pulitzer 53 These can be winner 
citric 60 "-­54 Gossip tidbit does ill" 55 Suddenly bright 61 Sicilian sight 
star 63 Egg: Prefix 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-~56 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


EVERYONE DOESN'T DRINK 
YOU CAN BELIEVE ANYTHING YOU WANT. BUT THE TRUTH IS, MORE THAN ONE THIRD OF COLLEGE STUDENTS· SELDOM OR NEVER DRINK ALCOHOL. 
SO WHAT DO THEY DO INSTEAD? WHY NOT ASK THEM. 
Sponsored By The Office of Alcohol And Drug Education 



SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, February 5, 1997 
• RECRUlT!NG 
1997 Reebok Prep Football All-Americans 
Player  W{.  Pos. Hometown  Coll~e Choice  
LaVar Arrington  6-3,225  LB  Pittsburgh, PA  Penn State  
Luke Butkus  6-4,260  OL  Steger, IL  Illinois  
Andre Carter  6-4,235  DL  San Jose, CA  California  
Cosey Coleman  6-6,315  DUOL Decatur, GA  Tennessee  
Leonard Davis  6-6,345  DUOL Wortham, TX  Undecided  
Tony Driver  6-3,205  RB  Louisville, KY  Notre Dame  
Derrick Gibson  6-3,190  DB  Miami, FL  Rolida State  
Ron Graham  6-4,235  LB  Pittsburgh, PA  Penn State  
Deon Grant  6-4,190  DB  Augusta, GA  Tennessee  
Jabari Hollowa y 6-3,238  TJ;  Riverdale, GA  Notre Dame  
Tam Hopkins  6-5,315  OL  Casselbeny,FL  Ohio State  
Grant Irons  6-5,230  LB  Woodlands, TX  Notre Dame  
Darrell Jackson  6-1,190  WR  Tampa, FL  Florida  

t 
Sebastian Janikowski6-2,215 PK OflTlond Beach, FL Florida State 
Kenny Kelly Austin Kemp Travis Minor Ken-Yon Rambo 
.Cooper Rego
.. 
Jamal Reynolds Steve Shipp Anthony Thomas Hubert Thompson 
Kurt Vollers 
David Warren 
Maurice Williams 
6-3,190  QB  Plant City, FL  Miami  
6-4,220  LB  Brentwood, Tn  Tennessee  
5-11,190  RB  Batbn Rouge, LA  Undecided  
6-2,180  WR  Cenitos, CA  Undecided  
5-9,190  RB/DB Montvale, NJ  Notre Dame  
6-4,240  LB/DE  Aiken, SC  Florida State  
6-2,185  WR  Charlotte, NC  Undecided  
6-1,220  RB  Winnfield, LA  Michigan  
6-5,265  DL  Hillside, IL  Michigan State  
6-7,275  OL  Whittier, CA  Notre Dame  
6-4,235  DE  Tyler, TX  Undecided  
6-7,280  DUOL  Detroit, Ml  Michigan  



Minor update with Carswell on the fence 
I
t never seems to end. Actually this is a good thing. A week ago we were cursing the recruiting world. Notre Dame was stuck at 16 commitments. 
Then All-American athlete Tony Driver shocked the world and announced his intention to sign with the Irish. 24 hours later, wide receiver Justin Smith decommitted from Duke and joined Driver. 
This Tuesday, Irish still had three scholarships left to give. The 
.--------, only uncommitted player still considering the 


Irish was USA Today's Offensive Player of the Year Travis Minor. So Irish head coach Bob Davie sent all of Notre Dame's 18 commitments a letter of intent and four extra letters to Minor, safety Robert Carswell, wide receiver Greg Brown and linebacker Hugh Holmes. 
Carswell, Brown and Holmes had once con­sidered Notre Dame their favorite, but instead 
'=r~h-o_m_a_s--='s_c_h-li-dt committed to Clemson, Texas and Florida, 
R  ·r  respectively.  It wasn't likely that one would  
ecrut mg  change his mind, but if he did, he had a letter of  
Correspondent  intent to fax back to Notre Dame.  
On Tuesday night, one had changed his mind.  

According to his coach, Carswell was now going to sign with the Irish. Yet, later in the evening, Carswell admitted that he was unsure what he was going to do. 
If he should sign with the Irish, here is some information on him. 
Hobert Carswell: One of the top safeties in the nation, Hobert Carswell (6-2, 200, 4.5) of Stone Mountain, Ga. provides the Irish with some immediate depth in the defensive backfield or could develop into a star linebacker. 
see RECRUIT/ page 14 
• MEN's BASKETBALL 


When it rains, it pours 
Scoring balance helps weather the Red Storm 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 

Two Notre Dame seniors 
walked into the press confer­
ence room following a 75-70 
Irish victory over St. John's 
last night. 

Neither one was Pat Garrity. 
For the Irish, that's always a 
good sign. 

Sure, Garrity still led the 
team with 17 points and had 
his usual solid all-around 
game, but contributions from 
the two fielding post-game 
questions made the difference. 
Pete Miller and Admore 
White, who combined for only 
five points in last week's 
Pittsburgh loss, combined for 
28 against the Red Storm, key­ing a late stretch run that kept Irish post-season hopes alive. 
"This is what Big Eas.t bas­ketball is all about," exclaimed Irish head coach John MacLeod. 
White wrapped up the game at the foul line, making all four of his free throws with under 20 seconds left. A three-point­er from St. John's forward Felipe Lopez cut the Irish lead to one with 19.8 seconds remaining, but White's crucial foul shots staved off the final storm. 
That clutch shooting was just part of an impressive 75 per­cent from the line. 
"I was calm," White said about the final tense moments. "I missed a couple earlier in the game and I just said to myself that I wasn't going to miss these." 
The Irish point guard also hit for 15 points to complement his eight assists. Besides the 
free throws, White also sank a 17-footer, providing a six-point cushion, the largest down the stretch. 
"Admore played great tonight," Miller said sitting alongside his teammate. "He's so composed out there. He's definitely the leader on the court for us. St. John's made a run and took the lead and in the past we may have fallen apart then, but we had a great floor leader out there in Admore." 
Before Miller relinquishes all credit, let's mention his contri­butions. After sitting on the bench most of the first half in foul trouble, Milier went 3-for­3 from three-point land in the second half. None was bigger than his last, giving the Irish a 63-59 lead which they would not relinquish. 
"I was a little tight in the 
see B-BALL I page 18 
Center Matt Gotsch contributed 7 points, including two crucial free throws down the stretch. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Women's tennis at Rolexvs. Connecticut 

Nar'l Indoor Championships February 8, 12 p.m. 
• Holtz finds work 
February 3-6 vs Syracuse 

SPORTS 
see page 17 Men's tennis vs. William and 
• 
February 6, 7 p.m . 

A1!' lA 
Mary 
• IU loses another Big Ten game 
Tonight, 3:30p.m.
G~ 
vs. Ohio Stare see page 14
Basketball at Bluffton College Tonight,7 p.m. 
February 7, 7 p.m. 








