
DROP BY OUR OFFICE 
• Football coach Bob Davie talks about the pres­
Saturday
• The c5bserver is having an open house for any freshmen interested in 

sures faced by freshmen playing varsity sports at a 
working with us. Come meet the staff Monday from 3-5 p.m. at our new 
Division I school. 
office, 024 South Dining Hall (in the basement). Read about our policies 
AUGUST 22, 
and guidelines inside. News • p. 2 

Sports • p. 24 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII N0.1 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
2 BUILDING INTO THE MILLENNIUM The Observer/Kevin Dalum Like many ND/SMC freshmen, Tom Reynolds and his father jim, a '74 grad, constructed lofts in Alumni Hall. revived as homes -a symbol of the impress.454 new students school's boosted enrollment. ND class of2002 The incoming class has a mean Exceeding its expected goal, the enter­SAT score of 1325, up from last ing l'irst-year students represent a 25exceed enrollment year's mean of 131 3. and a meanbreaks records percent increase in freshmen enrollment ACT of 30, up from 29. In addition,and the largest class since 1990. 65 percent of Notre Dame freshmenexpectations Last year, the entering class numbered for scores, ranks were in the top five percent of their 334. graduating high school classes, up 4By M. SHANNON RYAN "We seemed to have realty turned a By SARAH J. HILTZ percent from last year. All of theseSaint Mary's Editor corner here," said director of admission, Associate News Editor figures break records set by last Mary Pat Nolan. year's freshmen.Since the fall of l9<Jb, the fourth and Of the incoming students, 409 are With higher test scores, more One reason for the improving aca­fifth floors of H<~gina North Hall have entering their first year of college. scholarship dollars and a steadily demic standards is a 37 percentbPnn dark. vacant and eerily quii~L Similar to previous years, 45 are transfer increasing percentage of minority increase in scholarship dollars forBut when 454 new students began students. students, Notre Dame's class of 2002 this year's class, according to assis­their careers at Saint Mary's on is continuing the trend of a fresh­Thursday. the floors' dorm rooms were man classes that never cease tosee SMC FROSH I page 6 see ND FROSHI page 6  

• CONSTRUCTION BEAT 


Summer construction gives new face to campus 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY Assistant News Editor 
After approximately 36,000 man-hours per­formed by 800 workers, the face of Notre Dame changed again this summer as construction crews finished or moved forward on several campus construction projects. 
This summer's progress was typical in both the dollar amounts and time invested, and 

!~~~=====:~ extended to nearly every corner of the campus,
according to Mike Smith. director of Facilities 
The Eck Center is projected to open in February. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Engineering. 
Eck Center 
The nearly finishnd Eck Center will house a new bookstore, Alumni Association offices and a visitors' center. Scheduled for completion early this fall, the Alumni Association and visi­tors' center should move into the center over Christmas break, according to Smith, who anticipates the new bookstore's grand opening celebration for February's Junior Parents' Weekend. The $10 million project was funded by a donation from Frank Eck, a 1944 alumnus of the University. 
Academic Additions 
The $5 million Hank Family Center for Environmental Sciences, an addition to the Galvin Life Science Center, has increased thn size of that facility by 30,000 square feet, according to Smith. 
The new areas include research labs and offices for faculty and graduate students, said Jack Duman. chair of the department of Biological Sciences. Other areas include two conference rooms, aquatic labs and storage areas for aquatic organisms, a solarium and greenhouses on the roof. aceording to Duman. 
"This allows for an expansion, mostly liJr eco­logical research," Duman said. "Space in the 
see CHANGES I page 4 


i 
t t 
I ~ 
I 
I ~ 
~ 
t 
page 2 

----------------~--------------------------------~------------------~--~----------------------.. 
• lwsmE CoUJMN 



The W-word 
Welcome, freshmen, to ----;"""""'"""""'~~"""""'"""""'~
Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. Welcome to South 
Bend; welcome to page 
two of The Observer; wel­
come to probably four 
years of studying, miser­
able weather and high 
expectations. 
And welcome to the 
land of welcomes. The 
Associate News Editor 
infamous W-word has 
already been inflicted 
upon you by freshman orientation commit­
tees, hall staff and now The Observer. In my 
old age, I've developed a keen perspective on 
what it means to be a fledgling frosh, and I've 
managed to discriminate between useful 
Freshman 0 information and utter waste. 
For example, pay attention to your RAs 
when they encourage you to make friends 
with your section mates. The girls that were 
my neighbors freshman year are still my 
dearest friends. You can't beat living proof. 
Another tip: when you feel like you're about 
to tear your hair out by the roots with all of 
the freshman orientation week activities that 
I found slightly nauseating, keep in mind that 
you're not weird. Many others find them 
equally annoying, and some day down the 
road, you'll reminisce with your best friends 
about how random it seems that you actually 
met at something called a Graffiti Dance. 
My advice, as a non-alumni kid, is to hang 
on to the handy campus map that you will 
surely find readily available in many loca­
tions. While 23 percent of you have parents 
who graduated from Notre Dame and you 
probably know your way around, the fact 
remains that there's more to campus than 
knowing where to find The Huddle and cool 
NO merchandise -they won't help you find 
your classroom building on Tuesday morn­
ing. 
Many of you probably had campus tours 
courtesy of the Admissions department when 
you were still classified as prospective stu­
dents. I am convinced that the spiel given by 
the tour guides has not been changed for 
decades. Who knows? Maybe they used to 
call the statue on God Quad "Jump Mama, I'll 
Catcha" and the statue by the library "We're 
Number One Moses," but they surely don't 
call them that anymore. 
Your RAs and advisors will certainly 
encourage you to sign up for student groups 
and extracurricular activities. This is very 
good advice, but perhaps it will behoove you 
to keep in mind that it's not a bad idea to be 
discriminating. It may seem productive to 
join with reckless abandon any clubs that 
sound at least more appealing than having 
cavities filled. However, keep in mind that 
not only will you have a limited amount of 
free time to contribute to these clubs, but 
each one that you sign up for will accost your 
voice and e-mail accounts with more mes­
sages, requests and announcements than you 
will ever know what to do with. 
I can honestly say that if I could go back to 
August of 1995, I would probably sign up for 
a few more things. If you do things you like, 
you can only meet cool people with similar 
interests, and I've yet to hear anybody com­
plain about having too many friends. 
I should also say for the record that I would 
have studied more, since I have spent the two 
years since trying to bring up my once­
pathetic GPA. But now that I think about it ... 
nah, I had too much fun. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAff  
News Sarah Hiltz Michelle Krupa Tim Logan Sports Kathleen Lopez Viewpoint Eddie Llull  Scene Sarah Dylag Kristi Kli tsch Graphics Heather Cocks Lab Tech Kevin Dalum JeffHsu Meg Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Saturday, August 22, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 

News department guidelines, policies 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer is a daily, student­run newspaper serving both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The Observer news department uses the following guidelines in its news gather­ing process: 
The Observer news department strives to report on all campus and local events that affect both campuses and the surrounding areas. In addition to local news, The Observer uses Associated Press stories and graphics to keep readers informed about national and world events. 
As stated in our editorial policy, "The Observer news is reported as accu­rately and objective­ly as possible." We realize that the department is com­prised of amateur journalists, yet we strive to conduct ourselves as pro­fessionals at all times. 
Story ideas come largely from Notre Dame's department of Public Relations and Information. We also generate our own ideas from adver­tisements in The Observer, other publications and campus posters. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Saturday, August 22 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
60s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

H· L 
Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
"T""""'r 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
<Cl 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
II]
We~fi,~sd~y~ 
H L Ea LSI 0 . ~ 8 0 ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
_})'V\_~"· ,......""'·..,./.. ···_f Via Associated Press 
Anchorage 58 48 Denver 81 64 New York 84 61 Arlington Heights 88 69 Detroit 80 70 Norfolk 89 69 Atlanta 90 70 "Hartford 83 61 San Diego 80 70
~,~,~~@.@ ~ ~ Q 
Baltimore 88 70 Houston 95 75 Seattle 72 52
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies snoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 85 65 Miami 92 80 Wichita 95 70
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

A final and important source of We suggest, however, that in this 
story ideas is the members of the case the sponsoring group fill out an 
ND/SMC community who call, write "Of Interest" form at The Observer 
or e-mail The Observer staff regard-by 1 p.m. the day before the event. 
ing events they are planning. We As an alternative, the group may 

encourage groups to contact us at also take out an advertisement in ....,.,.,....,.,.,....,.,.,....,.,.,....,.,.,....,.,.,,., the paper at our spe­cial campus rate. With certain events, we only run previews. For instance, if a group is sponsoring a career day or an off­campus event,-we might simply run a story on the details of the future event. We will also run previews if it is not feasible to have a reporter cover or attend the event. We understand that there are times when a preview article is more appropriate than an article reporting the event. This type of decision is made by the news editor. However, we are always willing 
"-...............~~~"'"""'-.....J to discuss news 
least one week in advance with details regarding their events. 
As a rule, we do not run previews of lectures that we are planning to cover. We simply do not have the staff or space to run previews of every campus lecture. Exceptions to this rule may be made if a lecture is to be given by a speaker of national or international prominence. 
department coverage of an event, provided a group representative contacts the news editor at least one week prior to the event. 
If you have any additional ques­tions, please contact Michelle Krupa, news editor, at 631-5323. 
Questions or comments can also be e-mailed to the news department at Observer.obsnews.1 @nd.edu. 


Saturday, August 22, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT -f!t­Who s Who and What They Do SAINT 
Stories by 



MARY'S
TIM LOGAN Assisram News Editor 
COLLEGE
and M.SHANNON RYAN Saim Mary's EditOr NOTRE DAME, IN 

• 
Tlw stude•nt body prnsidnnt is rospon­sibln for thP OVPrall OJWration of the Studnnt Union and rnprPsnnts the undnrgraduatn population in many om­rial r.aparilins. 
The• prc•sidc•nt chairs thn Executive C:abinl'l and the~ Campus Lil'n Council. sits on the• Studnnt Affairs Committnn of' tlw Hoard ol' Trustons and is a non-vot­ing mPmlwr ol' tlw Studont Senato. All st'nal<' rPsolutions must bn signnd by tlw prnsidPnl. Tlw vicn prnsidnnt chairs tlw Studt'nt SPIHttn. 
l'l'tl'r Cnsaro and Andrc\a Snlak won tlw pn~sidnntial c~lnr.tion with a platform that str·I~Ssl'd "putting studonts first." 
Among thPir othe~r prioritins this ynar: 

• StudPnt rnprnsentation on the Board ol' Trustons. 
• Improving stude~nt-l'aculty n~lations 


The Observer/Katie Kroener

outsidn tho classroom. 
Student body president Peter Cesaro• Bc~ttm· communication and coopera­and vice president Andrea Selak head 
tion hntwnon student governmnnt 
Notre Dame's Student Union. brandws. Within tlw Orticn of' tho Prosident are ornment programs such as a numlll'r of' d11par·tmnnts designed to Administrative Helations, Student Life f'acilitatn tlw operation of student gov-and Gender Issues. 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 
Tlw CLC is the main forum for dehatn among studcmt l1~1tclers. n~ctors and administrators on student and campus issuns. Artnr study and dt' hate of' a matLPr. tlw CLC issuns a rnr.ommen­dalion to thn vico presi­dnnt for Studnnt Affairs, l'atrie:ia O'llara for her rPvinw. 
Tlw cu: is tlw !'inal srt'p for Studnnt Senato rnsolutions that relate to student affairs and eam­pus life, which it must approve. 
Tlu~ student body president presides over 
The Observer/Jose Mendota

CLC mnotings and the 
The CLC is a major forum for debate about issues of stu­body is e:omprised of tho dent affairs. 
judicial council presi­dPnt: stu(!Pnt body twa­from the Student Senate, • Dining hall reform ~urer: assistant vice tho llall Presidents' • Hecommendations pn~sid1~nt for Hnsidnnco Council and the office of on student alcohol policy l.if'n: onn fa(:ulty mnm­Multicultural Affairs. • New gender and hnr: snvnral dorm rec­Hne~nnt CLC accom­diversity education pro­tors and rnprnsnntatives plishnwnts include: gramming 
• um·-:" ·ENATE 
Snrving as tlw voien of' the budget and approve representative. tho Pnliro unrlorgradu­many appointed Among the senate's ate~ studnnt body, the Studnnt Union officers. recent actions: Studnnt Snnato addrnss­Tho body also has the • Laundry service l'S a broad rangn of' powor of impeachment. installation in mens' issues. Chairod by the stu­dorms 
Tho sc~nate must also dnnt body vice presi­• Extension of lunch supnrvisn olections, dent, the senato hours rnviow and -if nnces­inc:ludes one member • Expansion of the sary -amend thn con­from each residence Women's Resource stitution annually, pass hall and an ofT-campus Cnnter 
• STUDENT UNION BOARD 
As the main programming body in stu­dent government, SUB sponsors a wide rangP. of speakers. events, dances and concerts for undergraduate students. SUB also plans and sponsors AnTostal, Notre Dame's annual spring festival, and runs a weekly movie series. 
SUB is headed by Hyan Stecz and has a range of departments to oversee their ovnnts during the course of the year, which also inelude the Sophomore Litnrary Festival and the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
Hncent SUB Highlights: 
• Jamns Earl Jones and Walter Payton both spoke at Notre Dame in '97-'98. 
• Ben Folds Five and Ani DiFranco played concerts at Stepan Center. The Observer/Jeft Hsu • The Names Project AIDS quilt came 
Students participate in an event during to Notre Dame. last year's AnTostal, sponsored by SUB. 


• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
The board's main "We want Saint Mary's to dent-athletes is a plan responsibility is to pro­be a school producing Siefert hopes will vide a forum for discus­technoI ogi cally-cap a bin increasc~ attendance at sion on issues and poli­graduates," sporting events and func­cies that concern Saint tion as a support sys­Mary's students and its PBESIDENT VICE PHESIDENT tem among athletes. community. 
Finally, Siefert 
Members are wants to lwlp every responsible for making student becomo formal recommenda­involved in at least tions on behalf of the one activity. students about poli­"Find a way to get cies, procedures or involved," Siefert said amendments. They as advice to new stu­also support or deny dents. official status to any "Whether it's in
Seifert Midden
student group, club or SGA, athletics or cam­
organization. At the same time, pus ministry. One of the 
The board oversees Siefert plans to focus on benefits on a small earn­
class governments, clubs the tradition of the pus is that everyone can 
and organizations and is College. make a difference," she 
led by the student body "We're planning on added. 
president. finding ways to connect Freshman elections for 
The president for 1998-more students with the class officers will be held 
99 is senior Sarah Siefert. history of Saint Mary's," Sept. 24. 
With student body vice Siefert said. On Sept. 8 and 9, an 
president Nancy Midden, "It's really what has election information ses­
Siefert plans to create made my Sain£ Mary's sion will be held in 
awareness of campus experience so great. II aggar College Center. 
technology updates. We're moving forward, Freshman platforms are 
"We want students to but we still want to con­due on Sept. 18 and cam­
take full advantage of the nect with the history." paigning will begin at 
technology," Siefert said. Creating a elub for stu-noon on the 20th. 
• STUDENT ACAOEMlC COUNCil 
Led by-the student body vice presi­and further establishing Saint Mary's dent, SAC members also include a sec­Pride Day, now in its second year. retary and one student representative Recognizing students for academie from each academic department. The achievement in each major department representative is elected in the spring is another SAC goal. By highlighting stu­by students from her academic field of dents' classroom successes, Midden study. hopes to expose the students behind 
SAC. also sanctioned by BOG, provides Saint Mary's strong academic reputa­intellectual programming, serves as a tion. liaison between faculty and students "We are hoping to celebrate why we and upholds the academic standards of are number one in 'U.S. News and the College. The members also are World Report,"' Midden said. responsible for making formal recom­Along with this year's secretary, mendations regarding academic depart­senior Stephanie Villinski, and the rep­ments, curriculum and standards. resentatives of majors, Midden will also 
Midden will serve as the 1998-99 establish a "Major of the Week" pro­chair of SAC. gram, publicizing a different major each Midden's plans include developing week. 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 
H.HA, sanctioned by IIall president last year. HHA committees, such BOG, addresses issues RHA's primary goal as social, spiritual, mul­and policies and pro­this year is to promote ticultural and community vides programming for awareness of its organi­awareness committees, students living on cam­zation and increase still have open positions. pus. The members over­involvement in hall activ­Hall councils also need see budget allocations of ities. to be formed in Regina resident hall govern­Members' plans and McCandless llalls, a ments and act as liaisons include inter-hall festi­priority of Hl!A, accord­for hall councils with vals, forums for open ing to Guerreso. BOG. discussion and the annu­"Freshman involve­
This year, junior Gina ·al all-campus formal, ment would be great," Guerreso will serve as including a pre-or post­Guerreso said. "When RIIA president with the party, and a big sister I've talked with fresh­assistance of vice presi­program. The associa­men before. Their input dent Mary Ellen tion is also developing a has been so helpful. We Blumreich. Guerreso Web page and a newslet­can really learn a lot served as McCandless ter. from them." 
• STUDENT .ACTIVITIES BOARD 
SAB. a multi-chair organiza­
entertainment, movios and tion, serves the College by munchies, public: relations. developing and promoting mul­speakers and traditional events. ticultural, social, recreational, Besides bringing recent intellectual and educational movies to campus this year, events. The planned activities SAB also has booked the band are aimed at meeting the needs Third Wish and comedy troupe, and interests of students as well "Eight Degrees Below Normal." as providing opportunities for 
"We want to provide the

STUDENT 
opportunity for students to have .Junior Janet Horvath will leadership. 

ACTIVITIES 
fun on campus in a variPty of serve as the coordinator with 
ways," llorvath said. "We want senior Elisabeth Krick as the 


B·O·A·R·D 
to get people involved." 
SAINT MARY'S
administrative coordinator and Horvath notP.d that positions
COLLEGE
junjor Brooke Davis as the to work on the committee are committee ehair. still open to students, ineluding SAB. chairs include those for culture, freshmen. 

r 
;> r~~~ '"l'"'·rr·,.-T ,If-.-.,.,. 'l.rw', C' l. ~
r ­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 22, 1998 
I 
Changes

I continued from page 1 
I greenhouse and wet labs was limited and in pretty poor shape. We needed new greenhouse research space." The new area also boasts more storage space and a room in which ecologists can process sci­entific samples. The space that previously contained the ecology offices and laboratories will be used to expand other depart­ments, Duman said. The project was a gift from Bernard "Jerry" Hank, Jr., an alumnus and trustee, and his wife Joyce McMahon I lank. 
Residence I falls 
The complete renovation of Morrissey Hall was yet another of the campus improvements com­pleted during the summer months. The building was com­pletely gutted and rebuilt, said hall rector Father William Seetch. 
"All interior walls were knocked out and new ones were built," he said. "[We have] new lights, plumbing, sinks, bath­rooms, furniture, stairs and car­pet." 
The sidewalks between Lyons, Morrissey and Howard Halls were also landscaped, according to Seetch. 

"It's a very pretty place ... it looks very nice," he said. However, Seetch is unsure if all residents will be satisfied. 
"Some students would be unhappy even in heaven," he said. 
Office Space 
The renovation of the Administration Building is one project still in the works after summer progress, Smith explained. 
"The fifth floor is the most complete -it's painted and has wood trim, but there's no carpet or antique fixtures [yet]," Smith explained. "The building is less complete as you go down [the floors I." 
The estimated date for comple­tion is July 1, 1999, Smith said. 
Construction to convert Flanner Hall from a residence area to office space was complet­ed this summer, according to Smith. The building now contains several University oflices, includ­ing Career and Placement Services, the Erasmus Institute and University Press. A complete listing of the moves to Flanner can be found in Tuesday's Observer. 
Dining Other additions to campus include a Burger King franchise 

Don't miss the only time you will see over 200 clubs, organizations and social service organizations in one place. 
......................................... 
THII If YOUR CHANCE TO GIT INYOLYID! DON'T Miff IT!! 
·············~··························· 
Tuesday, September 1 
7:00 P.M. -9:00 P.M. joyce ACC Fieldhouse 
Sponsored by RecSports, Student Activities Office and Club Coordination Council. For more information contact 631-7309 
and an Edy's ice cream parlor in the LaFortune Student Center. These new restaurants will accept points from the Flex 14 meal plan. 
Recreation 
Thr-oughout the summer con­struction proceeded on the new, 18-hole William K. and Natalie 
0. Warren Golf Course. The pro­ject was funded by the William K. Warren Foundation of Tulsa, whose chairman is the 1956 alumnus and son of the couple for whom the course is named, according to a recent press release. 
The course, designed by Coore & Crensaw, Inc., is scheduled to open in the spring of 1999. Construction costs were approx­imately $7 million, according to the release. 

But the completion of these projects does not signal the end of campus construction. Smith said future undertakings will include the construction of a performing arts center at the south end of DeBartolo Hall and the renovation of the Hayes­Healy, Hurley and Crowley buildings, as well as Washington Hall. 

S.R. 23 (East of Ironwood) 52750 U.S. 33N (serving Notre Dame Area) (Between Cleveland & Darden Rd.) 




243-1111 243-1122 
Qu.ick CARRYOUT & DELIVERY 
• SPECIALTY PIZZAS • FRESH BAKED SUBS • FRESH SALADS 

Free Extras .-.-­
Parmesan Cheese Crust•Garlic Butter Crust•Extra Pizza Sauce•Side of Banana Peppers Just Ask 


WELCOME FRESHMAN 
Campus Specials 
Ijt%1 1Gli'ta i'l~1 rlffiidil!@
Special Special# 3
LARCIE PIZZA 
~~0 
•
•

•• "tAStC~POINT SELECT" :• 
: Designedfor the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low •
•
:Monthly Rate--just Compare! •• 
• * 

• UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
• 
27" Stereo Television 


• 
Cherry Finished Furnishings 

• 
Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker 

• 
All Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding 


• Plus Much More! · MILLION DOLLAR RENOVA1IUN • 


* 
LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft) Starring at $494.00 

* 
LARGE Two Bedrooms (1,025 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 


OR $149.00 per Person with Four Occupants Included with rentals for a LIMITED time -FREE full privilege membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including: 
* 
New Fitness Center * Outdoor Pool * Beach Volleyball 

* 
Sauna & Whirlpool * 3·Racquetball Courts * Indoor/Outdoor 

* 
IndQor/OutdoorJ..!g_hted 'trll!i,s_ Co~rJs t 17. I Basketballt t


Hurry tn tor a lour 0 vne MOS rVrU ar Apar men !3 While They Last. 
Castfe:Point~artments CfevefruW @ Jronwooo:Roaas 
272~8110 
www.castfe-polnt.com Xon~tl!J -S11tur~tl9 811m -6pm Sun~{JJ1pm-5~ 

. " here o ( ivt i s n 6 e"
•••••••••••••'N •• ~ ~~ .llS. ~ q; ~. ~ t••••••••••••• 

Sarurday, Augusr 22, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• TECHNOLOGY BEAT 

ResNet, cable among technical improvements 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Sainr Mary's News Ediror 
Saint Mary's College is now wired. 
Thn Collegn completed the installation of a residential net­work (HesNet), a multi-million dollar project that will allow stu­dents living in rnsidenen halls to 1:omwd to the Internet and send and ree11ive n-mail without a modem connection, according to Joel Cooper, tho College's direc­tor of Information Technology. 
"Last year, if you had a com­puter you had to have a modem if you wanted to send or read e­mail in your room," Cooper said. "You couldn't use programs like Notscape either. With HesNet, it is oxactly like if you wore using a computer in one of the labs." . 
Each dorm room will have one "port per pillow," Cooper said. 
For example, if a student lives in a triple room, there will three connections to the network. The updated technoloay also means that when using ResNet and connecting to the Internet, stu­dents will not tie up their phone lines or encounter busy signals. 
Installation fairs will be held in residence halls beginning Sept. 14 to educate residents about using and connecting to ResNet. 

"Students first need to have a networkable computer," Cooper said. "Then all we will have to do is install the software to allow them to connect to the network." 
Some computers may require an Ethernet card, an internal communication adapter that allows a computer to connect to a high-speed network. Information Technology staff at the installation fairs will help students determine if they need the Ethernet card for their com­puters. If they do, local contrac­tors will be on-hand to sell and install the card. 
"For students who don't have a computer, we still have over 100 computers throughout the campus," Cooper said. 
The updated technology may also change classroom teaching techniques, according to Cooper. 
"ResNet will improve class­room activities," Cooper said. "The faculty now have access to the Internet and e-mail and may require students to use e-mail and the Internet more than in the past. Professors may start putting course work on the Web. The networking changes the whole equation." 
In addition to a networked campus, students will have cable television access in eaeh dorm room. To have the cable TV acti­vated, students need to sign up at the front desk of their resi­dence halls. 
"Before we had cable access, there were students who couldn't get a basic TV station beeause they were on the wrong side of the cement wall," Cooper said. 
Even the cable access has edu­cational benefits, Cooper said. 
"It will be nice to have stu­dents able to access Scola or other foreign language chan­nels," he said. "Maybe one day, Saint Mary's will have their own television station. That's where I would like to see us go." 





8 p.wn.lo 11 p.wn. Saint Mary's College LiLrary Green 



-----~-­
page 6 
SMC frosh 
continued from page 1 
The class of 2002 represents every corner of the nation's map, while some come from exotic spots around the globe. The new students come from 37 states, American Samoa, Puerto Rico and the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
Eighty-one percent call the Midwest home; nine percent are from the South; (our percent from the middle states; three percent from the West; two per­cent from the Southwest; and one percent from New England. 
The group also brings diversi­ty, an area which has received special attention from the Saint Mary's community. Just more than 10 percent of the incoming students represent ethnic minorities -the percentage is usually around 7.4. 
Last year, only one African­American freshman enrolled at Saint Mary's. The class of 2002 brings five. 
"We're all very pleased," said Maria Oropeza, interim director 
Saint 
ed. 

S
tudents and parents bear the financial and muscular burden of buying books at the Saint Mary's bookstore. 
This number, up one percent strong academic tradition of the from last year, indicates the College. Just more than 44 per­impact of the Alumna Endorsed cent of the incoming students Application process which began were recognized by Saint two years ago. Through this MaryOs as merit scholars. process, an alumnae seeks out The average grade point aver­and sponsors a potential appli-age was a 3.54 on a 4.0 scale, cant. , and the average ACT score was 
The class also follows the 25. 


ND frosh 
continued from page 1 
tant provost for Enrollment Dan Saracino. With these additional resources, brighter and more qualified students will less frequently restricted from attending Notre Dame because of financial difficul­ties, Saracino said. 
"These dollars will help us achieve the goal of meeting the needs of every admitted student," he said. 
Of more than 8,500 appli­cants, Notre Dame accepted 3,586. As of Wednesday, 1,946 freshman agreed to attend, but a handful usually change their minds before move-in day, and final tallies will not be complete until enrollment. 
One of the admissions department's aspirations in recent years has been "to improve on diversity in the broadest sense," said Saracino. The ultimate goal 
Saturday, August 22, 1998 
is a "highly talented, motivat­ed freshman class so_ diverse that we can learn from each other." 
said that the extra scholarship dollars will result in more socioeconomic diver­sity, while a modest increase in ethnic minorities and international students will help increase the overall diversity of the student body. 
Also, 56 percent of entering Notre Dame undergraduates are studying more than 500 miles from home -compared with a national average of 10 percent -and freshmen are coming to Notre Dame from all 50 states. 
Other facts about the class of 2002: 
• 
Eighty-three percent of the new students are Roman Catholic. 

• 
The male-to-female ratio is 54 percent male to 46 per­cent women, tne same as last year's freshman class. 

• 
Twenty-three percent are the children of Notre Dame alumni, up one percent from last year. 


of Multicultural Affairs. "Not only are they academically tal­ented, but they bring so many different experiences." "The numbers have been increasing over the last couple of FULBRIGHT COMPETITION years," Oropeza continued. "But 1999-2000 there is still a lot of room for improvement. Saint Mary's has a committed mission to women, Attention Current Seniors!!!!! now we need to extend that to all women." Choosing Saint Mary's is also Ifyou are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational proving to be a growing tradition meeting within families. Nolan said the women reflect THURSDAY, AUGUST 27-6:00 p.m."the highest endorsement of the MaryOs experience," which is supported by the fact 126 DeBartolo with Pr?fessor Alain Toumayan, Advisor that more than 20 percent ofthe new students are alumnae-relat­ 
Discount coupon Coupon good on books. music. good until sidelines &cafe items. 25% Sept 30, 1998 (excludes maga:zines. One coupon per visit please. newspapers &net books) OFF Offer may not be combined with any other discount COME INSIDE:" BOOKS, MUSIC, VIDEO, AND A CAFE. MISHAWAKA: 4230 GRAPE RD • ON THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF GRAPE & DAY RD • ACCROSS FROM DON PABLOS • (219) 271-9930  

-------------~~~~ 
Sarurday, August 22, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



......................fl ...,...........,.. 
Saturday, August 22, 1998
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
New SOH serves up Reekers, more food options 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Associate News Editor 
Real plates, better selection of food, and a Starbucks frappuci­no to wash down dinner. 
Those things had nothing in common with South Dining Hall last year. But after a sweeping renovation of the building, Notrn Dame students have more mealtime options -this time, without Styrofoam plates, plas­tic cutlery and food imported from the North Dining Hall. 
One dramatic change is with the original food service area, renamed the South Dining Hall Food Market to reflect the arrangement of the dining hall facility. 
Prentkowski said the design­ers tried to recreate the look of a farmer's market, moeling it after the Marchet restaurant in Toronto and Food Life restau­rant in Chicago. These two models integrated variety and customization, which Prent­kowski said were among the priorities in revamping the din­ing hall. 
In the new format, diners will be privy to much of the prepa­ration of their food, which will be done in the main service area. That area is divided into twelve sections according to type of food. 
The structure is similar in theory to the eatery format of North Dining Hall, but all the sections are consolidated into one main location. Planners also took care in naming and decorating the sections to avoid limiting the possibilities for the food serviced there. 
"We didn't want to tie any 
area into a particular ethnic 
cuisine," said Prentkowski. 
Chefs are afforded more flexi­
bility in planning meals intro­
ducing exotic alternatives with­
out sacrificing the significance 
of the area design. 
"One can do a lot of things 
with stir-fry that are clearly not Asian," Prentkowski noted as an example. 
NO • SM • Nl • SM • NO 
j"j Bed ~N Breald'ast Registry -The Premier Registry Since 1983 ­Try the Opdonl A "Home Away from Home"A Perfect for. .. FB • Grad. • Fr. Or. • JPW .. •••The Irish BNB Symbol of'Approval 219-291-7153 Fax 219-291-1185  
NO .SMC • NO • SMC • NO  


But for a break from the din­ing hall routine, students can look to South Dining Hall's other major addition Reekers, a 24-hour cafe located behind the building. 
Reekers boasts both a Starbucks and a Freshens Yogurt franchise, and students can get anything from wood­fired pizzas to veggie-wraps, from smoothies to made-to­order selections. 
"There's no other college campus that I'm aware of that has a wood-fired pizza oven," said Prentkowski. "That's a very unique feature. We thought [it] would be a unique focal point." 
Named for Clement Heckers, the University's first student, the restaurant was meant to meet both the need for on-cam­pus social space and to offer a departure from dining hall food. 
Bishop Dan Jenky suggested the name, which Prentkowski said was selected because it's short, memorable, relevant and unique designation, Students submitted other suggestions, including "The Max," "The Blue Oyster," "Southern Comfort," and "Notre Diner." 
"In a lot of ways we wanted it 



to be the opposite of The 
Huddle," said Prentkowski. That 
motivation led to a design plan 
that includes table and bar stool 
eating areas as wp,Jl as more 
relaxed social areas. 
The architects also tried to 
give Reekers a different feel. 
ideally letting students congre­
gate there without a fast-food 
restaurant or dining hall atmos­
phere, Prentkowski said. 
Reekers will also have board games and computer ResNet hook-ups, as well as a stage and ·the capacity to host outdoor performances in its patio seat­
ing area. 
In the face of the South Quad 
changes, North Dining Hall 
remains the mostly the same. 
But food options did increase ­
it now offers sandwich wraps in 
flavored tortilla shells and a 
refurbished stir-fry area. 
As for traffic patterns, Notre 
Dame Food Services expects to 
have an influx of patrons at 
South Dining Hall at the start of 
the year, but for the clientele to 
balance out as geography and 
climate play more of a part in 
students' decisions about where 
to dine. 
The hours at South Dining 
Hall have been.extended by two 
hours at dinner, which will now 
WASHINGTON HALL--Donald Crafton, Chairman of the Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT), has announced that the annual reception for students interested in film, television or theatre will be held Wednesday, August 26, at 6:00 pm in Washington Hall. Students interested _in filmmaking, video/film pro­duction, broadcasting, stage management are encour­aged to attend. Following refreshments, there will be a brief informational meeting to discuss ways to become involved in departmental activities. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students-­majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. If you have a willingness to learn, you are qualified. 
Becoming involve in theatre is an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum A chef at South Dining Hall serves freshly sliced pork for a waiting diner. The changes to the facility will allow for more personalized ser­vice and a bigger variety of food options. 
be available to a'n students until at South. 9 p.m., Monday through Grah-N-Go has been relocated Thursday. Regular hours will be to the basement of South Dining maintained at North Dining Hall Hall and has been redesigned seven days a week and on for easier flow-through in both Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays locations. 
This season, the Department of Film, Television and Theatre will present a mainstage season consisting of four plays as well as many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof Getting Wrecked The Angels' Cradle performed by Theater Grottesco The School for Scandal 
In addition, FTT will host a residency by THEATRE 
GRoTTEsco, sponsored by the Henkels Visiting Lecture 
Series. Acting and directing projects are showcased at 
the end of each semester. All of these projects will 
need a great amount of student support. There are 
positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for the first two plays of the season will 
be held Wednesday, August 26, Thursday August 
27, at 7:00pm. 
If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be 
involved or have questions about the program, please 
call Tom Barkes at (219) 631-5956. 

Pizza Hut Student Special 




273-9944 
18157 State Rd. 23 • South Bend, IN 46635 

Saturday, August 22, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
• CONSTRUC-ION BEAT 

'Busy summer' leads to SMC improvements 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
\,,inr Mary\ Editor 
l;rnshmnn and transfer stu­
dPnts may not know it, but 
driving up thn Main Avt111LHl or 
bathing in !.11 Mans llall will 
lw quite a diiTnn~nl t1Xpnrienen 
this !'all. 
Complntion of' a l'ivn-year, 
4 7 -hath room rnnovation pro­
jnrl and thn four-wnnk-long 
rnpaving or thn trnn-lirwd path 
wc~rn just two of the improve­
ments madn to thc• campus 
during sumnwr bn)ak. 
"It was a busy summnr," 
said .John Marshall. superin­
lnndnnt of Buildings and 
(;rounds. 
Following tlw smooth, black­

top pod road onto campus lnads to morn changns, includ­. i ng t lw 11 nw I y r" pa v e d I. n Mans parking lot. Thn lot has lwPn nquippnd with gatns and 
a l>nt.I)X systnm. 
TwPnty-two parking spacns 
havt) hPt)n nliminatnd from tlw 
lot to makl' room for tlw gates 
and storw islands, lnaving thn 
total numlwr of spacns at 230. 
Whill' tlw final utilization 
plans arn not complntn, tht) 
JJI'W syslnm is dPsignPd to 
t•nsurP public parking spac~n 
during spPrial nvPnls on cam­
pus, a r r o r d i n g l o SI) c u r i t y 
dirPrlor Hirhard Chlc>lwk. 
During sut·li PVI'nts. the 
gatns on thl' parking lot's 
nortlwrn Pntranrn will hn low­
NI'd ai'LPr !'i p.m .. and gatos for patron parking will be raised one hour prior to the nvenl. Once lhn event begins and its patrons arc parked, otlwr motorists will be admit­loci for parking. 
"It's not going to be too much di!Terent other than appearance," Chlebek said. "Tho use of the lot will remain tho same." 
Thn Dntnx syslnm on the gat11s will allow entrance !'or faeulty, staff' and students with spncial needs. 
A committee will be formed shortly to discuss restricted parking hours and the details of' thn gates' usage and will compile an addendum to be distributed to the college com­munity e~~:plaining the new regulations. 
In other projncts. the busi­nnss wing in Lc) Mans has b()l\n remodeled. Two new offices for residt111ce hall staff' havn been crnatnd near the wnst pntrance of the building. 
Buildings and Grounds also rebuilt the heating and venti­lation systnm in Hegina Hall and added a fire alarm system in II aviean IIall. 
Elnvators and windows were rnl'urbished in Moreau Center for thn Arts and lloly Cross llall. and new cnilings and Iig h t s i n w P r I) • ad ded i n Mornau and llavican. 
Other projects in Mornau will not be finislwd for a few morn wneks, Marshall said. 


Home is where you pile your boxes ... 
• FRESHMAN ORIENTATION • 
M
embers of the class of 2002 unpacked their belongings yester­day and officially begun their careers as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Above: Saint Mary's students register for orientation. 
Right: Kathleen O'Connor gets some help !'rom her family while unloading wood to build a loft in her Breen-Phillips room. 
Below: Steven Hatay fills out forms while waiting to get settled into his Alumni llall double. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
R,E'A...·'L'\. ~ .I1T 

Get everything you need for your d~rm or apartment in one place: our Tent Sale! Today through August 24 
ENTERTAINMENT YOUR WAY! 

Wedding Receptions are
RAND§ 
Our Specialty 

• Over 20 Disk Jockeys including o BOOKING AGENCY wide variety of music
UNLliMliTEli) 

• 
Live Bands 

• 
String Quartets 

• 
Pianists and Harpists 

• 
Vocalists 


• 
And Featuring Moonlight Oasis: A blend of OJ, MC,vocalist and 


219-243-9204 light show 

TIME TO UPDATE YOUR WARDROBE? Stop by our NEW 9,000 sq. ft. store on Cleveland Road West 
storage crate near Meijer_ We'll help when you 
you stretch your 



purchase $100 
back-to-school

"On !he Campus" Phone: ():11-(i:lHi 
or more! 
dollar! 

www.ndbookstore.com 
Tent Sale In The Breezeway Next To The Store! 
L---------------------·----··---~------·-··. ·-·--·---·--------­
• 
---------~ 
-~---------­




IEWPOINT 
Saturday, August 22, 1998 os~ERVER page 10 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cock.-. MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rc:inrhaler · Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR. .. ....... i\!id1elle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER. .. ............... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR. .KJ.rhleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS. ....... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klirsch CONTROLLER...... .. ....................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Rvan PHOTO EDITOR .......................Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the: independent nL-wspapcr publi.!.hcd by the studcms of the Universiry ofNmre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Editor·in-Chief. Managing Editor. Assistam Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters 1s encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scenei/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer .obsnews.l @nd.edu 

The Viewpoint pages: Speak out 
The Viewpoint department are submitted. which The Observer is a mem­Columns. The Inside Column provides the opportunity for the Commentaries will not be ber may be granted permission contains views which are those Notre Dame and Saint Mary's printed if they are libelous or to publish commentaries with of the author and not necessari­communities to share their opin­unintelligible or irrelevant as the permission of the editor-in­ly those of The Observer. The
VII. ions and reactions to campus. applied to local, national or No commentaries of any kind chief or the permission of the Inside Column is not to be used local. national or international world interest on a particular will be printed in the Viewpoint managing editor and the for self or activity promotion. issues. issue, its extension of existing section concerning any candi-. Viewpoint editor. 
The Observer welcomes stu­issues on the Viewpoint pages, date for student government or dents, faculty and alumni to or its role in fostering spirited hall office once the official cam­write letters to the editor and intelligent discussion. paign period has begun for that expressing their opinions. A disclaimer will appear with office. This ban on commen­
XIII. 

The following is the Viewpoint any letter deemed highly graph­taries continues until the elec­The opinions expressed in the
X. department policy: ic, profane or discriminatory, tion for this position has been Commentaries which appear Viewpoint section are not neces­
yet nonetheless relevant. completed. The Observer in the Viewpoint section may sarily those of the editorial 
I. 
The disclaimer will appear at reserves the right to comment not have been printed previous­board. House editorials appear 
the beginning of the letter and on any candidate or issue it ly in other newspapers, maga­in the Viewpoint section. 
will alert readers to the serious wishes throughout the cam­zines or publications. Regular columnists, those 
All members of the Notre nature of the piece in question. paign period. In exceptions, the author of whose columns appear on a reg­Dame and Saint Mary's commu­At any time the editor-in-chief the previously printed material ular basis; guest columnists. nity may submit letters to the and the Viewpoint editor may must give legal consent. those whose columns do not editor. columns, quotes, poems suspend this article. Exceptions to this procedure are appear on a regular basis; let­or cartoons to the Viewpoint those organizations of which ters to the editor; poems, quotes
IV. department. Individuals not All commentaries submitted to The Observer is a member, quo­and cartoons are commentaries. associated with the Notre Dame The Observer must bear the sig­tations used for commentaries Such status is determined by the
V I I I •and Saint Mary's community are nature of the author. and "Quote of the Day." Viewpoint editor in all inci­also welcome to submit, but Commentaries submitted as let-Syndicated columns also are dences except house editorials. preference is given to members ters to the editor may not excluded from this procedure. of the University community. exceed three in number from
v. 

the same individual or organiza­All commentaries printed in tion within the same academic 

XIV. 

the Viewpoint section must be sem~ster. There is no limit to This policy must be approved
XI.
II. 
verified before being printed. the number of times an individ­Paid employees of The by the editorial board and can 
Letters to the Editor may not Authors of all columns, letters to ual or organization may have Observer are not permitted to be amended by a majority vote exceed 250 words. The the editor, quotes. poems and their commentaries appear in have their commentaries appear of the editorial board. All proce­Viewpoint editor may shorten cartoons must be notified before print as columnists. in the Viewpoint section as let­dures not covered in this policy any letter regardless of length being published in The ters to the editor. Hegular statement are left to the discre­or deem it worthy of print in its Observer. columnists and members of the tion of the Viewpoint editor. entirety as a commentary, Viewpoint staff also are not eli­The procedures outlined in though the length of the com­gible to have their commen­this policy apply only to the
IX. mentary may not exceed 550 All material submitted to the taries appear in the Viewpoint Viewpoint department of The words. Viewpoint department becomes section as letters to the editor. Observer.
VI. 

Only those individuals autho­the property of The Observer. The status of such individuals is 
rized to speak as representa­Any further use of these com­determined by the Viewpoint 
tives for a group will be allowed mentaries without the written editor.

III. XV.
to use the organization's name. consent of The Observer is pro­
The Viewpoint department In such cases, the primary hibited. This policy is available to the reserves the right to edit all author of the commentary is the Non-profit organizations. public during normal business commentaries submitted. The individual(s). and the commen­those organizations which have hours and must be prominently

XII. 
Observer has no obligation to tary is, in effect, only being co­a reciprocal usage agreement The Viewpoint editor is displayed in the Viewpointprint those commentaries which signed by the organization. and those organizations of responsible for editing all Inside department of The Observer . 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• Omrn.: OF THE DAY 

AlM05T30. I'V& HAl? 70HIRe ... NOT TO MaVTIONA COACH. 
'Never let the future dis­

TU/0 TtmJRSANP A5 YOUM/6HT IMA6/Ne, tub A Nll7l</TlON/5T.,_ HAV!3A FAIRl-Y J:?E:Cl3NT 
turb you. You will 
9A51<£T9AU SQUAP. 
meet it, if you have to, with 
""' 

the same weapons of reason which today arm you against the present.' 
-Mar:cus Aurelius 
• 

• DOONESBURV 
soHONMANYorme 
tiTTl-e CA'!iTCJI=FS ARE tuP 80ARI?ING, HON&Y.? 

F N 
O THE


Saturday, August 22, 1998 ---------------------page II
BSERVER 


Some insider ad-vice to freshmen 
SENIORS TURN BACK THE CLOCK 
I ran still rmnmnb11r ovnrything almost perfectly. My Dad carried boxes to tlw second lloor of Cavanaugh llall , swnating and cursing the nntim time while my Mom trind to organize my room, 
makn my bnd and makn friends with my roommatns' panmt.s. 
I stood in thn middle of the chaos. a little nxeitnd to meet new pnople, a little scared to be a l'rnshman in college and a lot um:m·tain about nverything olso. 
Thrnn years later, it all hap­pmwd almost the same way. This Sarah Dylag 

year my Dad swnat1-1d and cursed Scene Editor 
his way up tho stairs in my Turtln Cn1ek apartmnnt while my mom tried tu organiw the furniture, make my bed and rnnwmbnr thn names of my roommates' paronts. 
I stood in thn middle of tho chaos. a little excitnd to start anotlwr year, a little scared to call mysnlf a senior and a lot uneertain about everything else. 
Perhaps. tlwn. bning uncertain myself. I am not the hnst person to give advice to incoming freshmen. C!1rtainly. I could say thn same things that most any­onn will t11ll you about Notrn Damn. That it's an incrPdihl11 place filled with incrndible people. That you'rn standing on thn ndge of tlw best four years of your lifo and all of tlw upperclassmen would trade placns with you i!' it didn't moan selling our souls to thn dnvil or failing a good nurnbnr of our dasses. 
I could also come up with some hard-earned words of wisdom from my own experiences here. I could tell you to take a smnnstnr or a year and study abroad. to takn advantage of the intelligent and hnlpful faculty 


Fn)shman year. Grafl'iti Dance and dorm partins. Nnw friendships and new roommates. Struggling to find your plaen at Notre Dame. 
Most freshmen approach campus filled with anxil\ty and apprehension.--------, about what lies ahead. Many are overwhelmed with life away from home and others 1:an't wait to leave their mark on the world. 
I. too. was a freshman three years ago, whieh now seems like only yosterday. And although I won't pretend to bl) old and wise, hen~ are Scene Ediror a fnw things that I had to l'ind out on my own: 
•That 
it is never too late to get involved; with Notre Dame's numerous clubs, intermur­al athletic opportunities, leadership positions and student publications, there's never an nxcusn to say, ''I'm bored." 

•That 
late nights up with friends talking are better than latn nights out at the bars. 

•That 
Papa John's is more than just better pizza. 

•That I would wnar pajamas to mass. 

•That 
tailgating begins before the sun comes up. 



and unpm:k suite<L<>n al'tnr suitcase, stop and apprndato what you are about to lwcomn. 
Look at the Lo Mans tower. stroll down Thn Avnnun, say a pray11r at the Church oi'I.oretto. 
You am helping to continue a rich, storied and unique 154-year tradition of' women promoting other womnn. You are now part of the mission of "honoring tradition and pioneering chang11." You are Saint Mary's College, and make friends with your professors and to buy a really, really warm winter coat (and hat and gloves and boots). And I could remind you not to be afraid to change your mind about what you want to do here ­change your major, ehange your roommates and get involved in as many different activities as you can handle. 
But. in the end, I know you will each learn these things -and other important things -as you go along. I know, also, that the four-year journey will be more important than any words of advice I could write on a page. Nothing I say here will erase your uncertainty about the years to come. 
So I ask you only to remember that things work themselves out. No matter how carefully you plan things, you will deviate from your plan and you will make mistakes, but somehow, you will each end up on the path that is right for you. There will be good times and bad times, but they'll all blend together into a wonderful adventure in which you'll learn a lot about yourself. a little about others and make a mil­lion good memories. 
As Fyodor Dostoevsky wrote in The Brothers Karamazov, "there is nothing more lofty, nor more powerful. nor more healthy nor more useful later on in life than some good memory." If you live each day here to the fullest and recognize all of the possibilities that surround and await you, you will have four years of better memories than you can ever begin to imag­ine now. 
I wish you each happiness, friendship, adventure and a little bit of luck. It's going to be a memorable ride. 
•That 
playing barefoot frisbee on a warm spring afternoon is a slice of heaven. 

•That 
dining hall dishes come in handy for dorm living. 

•That 
you r.an love so many different people in so many different ways. 

•That 
roadtrips make the best conversations and the best memories. 

•That 
reetors/rectresses ean really be "cool." 

•That 
guys and girls can "jl!st be friends." 



•That 
reading an entire book the night before a test is one major headache. 

•That 
there are so many different abroad opportunities. 

•That 
unity is seen in the student section of every home football game. 

•That I'd be saving pennies. 

•That 
battery-powered alarm clocks come in handy during thunderstorms. 

•That 
halogen lamps can catch your room on fire. 

•That 
students do go to class in four-and-a­half feet of snow. 

•That 
you get no studying done on the sec­ond floor of the library. 

•That 
you need to make time for you and what makes you happy. 


•That you're only a freshman once. 
WHAT I WISH I WOULD HAVE KNOWN 
"That wearing tattoos on your face during a sunny football game can leave an interesting sunburn." 

Heather Cocks Editor-in-Chief 

"That when freshmen put inflatable pools in their room, seniors go swimming." 
Brian Reinthaler Managing Editor 
"That it's easier to be oneself than it is to try too hard to improve one­self." 

Kevin Dalum Photo Editor 


"That The Observer is not just a job, it's a lifestyle." 

Kathleen Lopez Sports Editor 


LOOKING BACK AT LIFE AT SAINT MARY'S 
Dmtr Saint Mary's womon. 

During your first days as a co!l(lge studnnt. my one piece of advice to you is stop. 
As you unload your panmLo;;' minivans ,--------, 

M. Shannon Ryan 
Sainr Mary's Ediror 
the premiere Catholic women's college in the nation. No doubt you will change over the next four years, but that change will likely be growth. 
Statistics will show that you have made a wise decision by choosing Saint Mary's College, but no chart or graph can weigh or explain how mueh you will actually benefit. 
You are entering an enviromnent where you will feel nur­tured, yet challenged. Aceomplished, but motivated to achieve. Leading others, but awed by the leaders around you. 
As you take this opportw1ity to reflect, remember that it is also your msponsibility to remind others of what you saw when you took the time to really observe Saint Mary's. 
Be proud of our school. When somebody from home asks you where Saint Mary's is or tells you they have never heard 
Look at it as an opportunity to share your experiences as a Saint Mary's woman. Enlighten them with stories about Saint Mary's outstanding professors. national aeclaim, the rigorous academics and rnwarding student organizations. 
Remember, also, the art of pausing to reflect during the rest of your years here. 
Chances are you will be wound into a dizzying spiral by term papers, assignments, extracurricular aetivities and exams. But stop yourself again. 
Pull an all-nighter talking to your roommate. Take advan­tage of the South Bend weather and build a mid-semester snowman. Put down those chemistry notes for 20 minutes and jog to the Grotto. Take pictures of everything and every­one. 
Memories will be created when you least expect them 
-........._oi.J.}~· which :v_i~~alp!i~ ~()-T.l~! beoffend~d.
~"iL.-......~ _ , ,1, •.-..~ io..-~~~X:~! yo~~If ~iss the chance to be .~spir.~<t. 





ORIENTATION WEEKEND'98 

TOBACCO POLICY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE LAUNDRY SERVICE ··~ 
In accordance with an administrative Notre Dame's sister school is located ·.~•....•.·.v .••• Formerly available only to males and at 
directive issued three years ago, directly across South Bend's major ·~ the campus laundry service is now av
. 

all buildings on the Notre north--south highway, U.S. 33/Busi­··•····. students for a fee. A contract for $95; Dame campus are smoke-free ness 31 (directly behind this panel services can be purchased for $85.00 1 in their entirety. This ban extends on map). The schools offer an ex­without the contract, transaCtion allj to the seating area of Notre Dame change program by which stu­charged to your student account. Cloth Stadium. Chewing-tobacco is not dents from both institutions may marked with an identificatil expressly included among the take advantage of the opportunity Bundled laundry is collected at you~ substances prohibited indoors. to study on the neighboring institu­able for you to pick up at the Laundry Ash cans are provided outside most tion's campus. Also, the schools (directly below on map); the schedule buildings for the convenience of smok­cosponsor the crew, downhill skiing, is posted in your dorm. Other service~ ers. Your cooperation is appreciated. golf, gymnastics, and sailing programs. dry cleaning, tailoring/alterations, and 
CAMPUS SECURITY Welcome gnd congratulations on choosing Notre Dame! 
For your protection Notre Dame em­ploys a staff of uniformed police ductioq, {#0Uid be entirely comprehensive, this guide will answe officers who provide 24-hour foot 11 and vehicular patrols on the cam­:<::9.Y~~ti~P7'. ~.i~.~~.i~ht some things you may want to know, a 
pus property. Additionally, 24 

·_,,,.;,.your beariFJ~s ~~:.• ::t.bie:X~~b~r large campus. Good luck!
emergency call boxes are spread across campus. To contact the Security Building (directly below on map) from any campus phone, dial 1-5555. For an emergency dial 911. From 8:00 p.m. to 2:30a.m. the SafeWalk program provides a free campus escort service; call 634-BLUE. 
Carroll Laundry Pickup.,· Heqlth ···.. · Center ,cs61fkes Stanfdrd 
st.r1 Keenan 
.. ;Edward's Zahm ··4if.
Security 
Building 
Rockne Memorial 
Nieuwland 
Notre 


COMPUTER-USER CLUSTERS 
To help complete homework Notre Dame features over 500 computers distributed among several locations. These clusters, which support Macintosh and PC platforms, are networked to several laser printers 
at each location which output work at no charge. Clusters can be found in the following buildings: Computer/Math, DeBartolo, Fitzpatrick, Hayes-Healy, Hesburgh Library, LaFor­tune, Nieuwland Science, O'Shaugh­nessy, and the Business Complex. 


STUDENT REGISTER 

POST OFFICE 
For those of you who are unfamiliar with the 
Notre Dame has its own campus Post As a feature of its in loco parentisabove term (upperclassmen included), it is Office (directly above on map), enforces restrictions upon thethe official name for what is more routinely which features a special mail hours of guests of the oppositeand infamously known on campus as the slot for letters to be post­Beginning at 10:00 a.m. dailyDogbook. This thin, bound black-and-white 
marked "Notre Dame, IN." 
and ending at midnight on Sundayvolume contains the photograph and brief bio­All mail not dropped in through Thursday and 2:00 a.m. ongraphical information each incoming freshman 

this slot will be postmarked 
and Saturday, students enjoy •n'""""''•was requested to provide shortly after being 
"South Bend, IN." Be fore­
tation. Violations of these rules areadmitted. Its reputation is for frequently being 

warned: the usual long lines 
ered serious, and can result in suthe sole basis for selecting one's date to dormi-L orecnaun ....1 often prevent being helped at dismissal of the offender.

tory-sponsored theme dances (also known as er Darne, 1,.,. the counter in the 15 minutes "SYR"s, for which one is "set-up") and formals. ~~~~s ran between back-to-back classes. 


no charge, 
to all 00 worth of semester; unts will be tags will be number. rm and avail­
Center designated days available include 
summer storage. 
hile no intro­
r some frequent d help you get 
DOUGLAS ROAD 
, ., 

Haggar Fire Station North Dining Hall 
..11/arley~ 
Center ~n-for Social llps Concerns 

Radiation 
Research 
Decio 

Stadium 
IENDAN REGAN 
y, Notre Dame ory visiting Jender. 
'Iday j visi-.. onsid­nsion or 

ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
A thorough opportunity to explore the wide range of campus orga­nizations occurs Sept. 1 from 7:0Q-9:00 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center. Student representatives from the various academic, athletic, media, musical, and political clubs will be stationed at booths arranged for your pe­rusal to answer questions and register prospective members. 
Flanner Grace 
PW  
Sieg­ 
fried  
Hesburgh  
Library  Bus  
Stop  
~ .., ...  
Computer/  
Math  
Galvin  



Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center 
HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
As you may have noticed by read­ing these panels, home foot­ball Saturdays are a slight departure from status quo in this'area. Festivities and activi­ties abound all weekend. This year's home games are: Sept. 5 vs. Michigan; Sept. 26 vs. Purdue; Oct.3 vs. Stanford; Oct. 24 vs. Army; Oct. 31 vs. Baylor; Nov. 21 vs. LSU. 

DINING HALLS 
Students who live in residence halls have a choice between the basic 21-meal plan and the new Flex-14 plan, which allows students to eat 14 meals per week in the dining and get 20,000 points for use in the same hours of operation. Excluding finals and vacation weeks, they are: 
Breakfast... ...... 7:00 a.m.-9:15a.m. Continental ......9:15 a.m. -10:30 a.m. Lunch ............ 1 0:30a.m.-1:30 p.m. DinneF........... 4:30p.m.-7:00p.m. Grab 'n' Go ........ 7:00a.m.-7:00p.m. ~;;:;;;a 

FOOTBALL TICKETS 
All students are guaranteed the opportunity to purchase one season ticket apiece. The proce­dure is as follows: application cards will be in stu­dent mailslots the week before tickets go on sale. Bring this card with your student ID and cash or check for $90.00 to the Joyce Athletic & Convo-· cation Center. Be prepared to wait in a lengthy line; many students camp out overnight. Any person may submit up to four applications provided he or she . , . also furnishes a matching student ID and payment ~· for each of the applications. For freshmen, season ­tickets will be available on Sept. 3 from 2:0Q-7:00. 



IDENTIFICATION CARD 
Your Student ID is your ticket to the privileges and im­munities granted to "Domers"; carry it with you at all times. Among the many in­stances it is required: eating at the dining halls, library services, registration, football and basketball games. 
~ 
Pavilion 


ALCOHOL POLICY 
According to du Lac: Student Life Poli­
cies and Procedures, "students are respon­sible for compliance with Indiana Criminal Law regarding alcohol consumption. The Uni­versity will enter a private residence room for the purpose of enforcing Indiana laws if drinking in such a room becomes public in any way." Public is defined as that which extends beyond the privacy of the room. It clarifies: "No alcoholic beverages may be carried in open containers in the corridors or any other public area of the residence halls such as 
lounges or lobbies." So keep it in your room. 

TIME ZONE 
Twice annually, when America ad­
-

justs its clocks for Daylight Savings, Arizona, Hawaii, and regions of In­diana do not change; Notre Dame is located in such a region. South Bend keeps its clocks set to Eastern Standard Time year­round. Therefore, from spring through fall it is the same hour of the day here as in Chicago, where­as from fall through spring it is the same hour of the day here as ic Detroit. 




--~~ --~ ~---­


Buying and laying down your carpet should be one of the very first things you do -even before you unpack. The less stuff you have unpacked in your room. the easier it will be to put carpet in your room. 
1. 
Decide whether you want your carpet to go from wall to wall. cutting around air-condi­tioning units and sinks or cen­tered in the middle of your room. 

2. 
Measure the area where you want carpet. It is worth it to mea­sure it carefully since cutting the carpet as you lay it is a big pain. 

3. 
Shop around. You don't have to buy carpet at the first store you see. There are a number of places around cam pus that offer carpet 


remnants for a good price. Look for the best price. 
4. Decide what color carpet you want. A light colored carpet doesn't show as much lint and dust as a dark colored carpet, but spills can be harzardous and leave permanent stains on a light 
coloredcarpet. 

5. 
Bargain with the person sell­ing the carpet. Some, but not all, of the carpet stores are willing to make deals for students, especial­ly if you're buying carpet for more than one room. Don't be afraid to ask for a lower price. 

6. 
Drive back to campus with the carpet sticking out of your parents' car. Some places will deliver the carpet for a small fee, 


but usually it's easier and quicker to make the short trek on your own. 
7. Remove as much furniture and stuff from you dorm room as possible to make laying the carpet easier. 
8. Beg your parents to roll out the carpet in your room. 
~---------------------------~~--~-~ 
WHERE TO GO TO GET YOUR CARPET 
GALLAGHER's CARPET WAREHOUSE: CARPETS FoR LEss 
2428 SOUTH 11TH STREET (NILES) 2607 SOUTH 11TH STREET (NILES) 
STUDENT DISCOUNT-$10-15 OFF MENARD's NEw YoRK CARPET WoRLD 365 WEST UNIVERSITY DRIVE (MISH.) 
5505 GRAPE ROAD (MISHAWAKA) 
LowE's 466o GRAPE RoAn (MisH.) 


Blocks and Crates -good for storing and stacking all of thin . especially in cramped closets. These storing essen­found ~rTarget, Wal-Mart, Meijer and Pier 1 
Couches/chairs -help to make your dorm room feel lik_e h,qme. A good place to buy them is at Goodwill. 
?%ff:j::f;)\,·:.... ·..... .·· ··········. .:·:·.:,:;.. 

, Coffee ta~les li,hi a''Iarger quad or triple with lofted beds, coffee tables go along with your couch to make your social space more fun. 
··. ·<'?r~'good ;lternative to .a normal couch because it up less space, sometimes costs less money and doubles as For a good deal. try the Futon Factory. 
poster sale takes place in LaFortune ,.,...,.••.., ...,,.,.,_ first few weeks of school. UP Mall J.JvuA.:n.uJ are also good places to look. 
past~them on your wall and ceil­new galaxy to explore at night. 
·Board-::-, vvhM the school year keeps both you and IVitlut~f()OIJnmates iri~~:riely... busy,<~Wipe-off message board will you/t() leave notei and relay phone messges to each 
other. 

Board ::-::;;;: a g()od way to keep all your important inone place. 
-a great way to brighten up a dark room, . don't forget to water them. 
....., d,esk lamps; bed lamps and floor lamps come in all styles, but remember, halogen lamps are a no, no. 
1;;;r N11oh-<> Dame flags -hang them out your window or on your These can b43found at the Bookstore or JC Penney's. '?2~i=:::*~A~?··;. · :i,::i,\/\:fMi~~'f~ilitL;:::. ·. ··· chliii;Siwind socks -you can hang them inside your window and attract the attention of passer-by's. 
<'@;,... 

For those freshmen whose dorms rooms do not include modular-furniture with a University­issued loft, building a loft helps create more space in a cramped dorm room, but be prepared for an ali-day project. Lofts come in all shapes and sizes -some are suspended from the ceiling, others are similiar to a bed frame and still others are connected in a L-shape. 
1. 
Some upperclassmen may actually post signs selling previously-used lofts -if you lind one of these, BUY IT! A previously-used loft will usually be easier to assemble. 

2. 
If you must start from scratch, consider purchasing a loft-building kit. They coast about $100 and include all of the necessary pre-cut lumber. 

3. 
If you prefer to purchase your own lumber, you will need (in addition to a very-mechanically inclined mind) 4 x 4's for the legs of the loft, 2 x 6's and 2 x 2's for the bed-frame structure to rest on and 2 x 4 side frames and other wood for the ladder. 

4. 
Gather up the necessary tools -a drill and drill bits, screws, bolts, a rachet set, a hammer, wood screws and nails. 


5. Start by screwing the 2 x 2's into the side plank 2 x 6's to form the platform for the bed frame. 
6. 
Screw the 2 x 6 side planks into the 4 x 4 legs, leaving sufficient space between the ceiling and the mattress. (Most lofts are at least three feet from the ceiling). Repeat for both sides of the bed. 

7. 
Take the end rails and screw them into the side rails to pull the structure together. Make sure that the distance between the two sides of the bed allow for the placement of the bed frame. 

8. 
Don't forget to reinforce each corner with 18-24 inch reinforcement boards. 

9. 
Construct a ladder. 

10. 
Decorate with stencils, paint and your creativity. 

11. 
Take a nap. 





WHERE TO GO TO GET YOUR LUMBER 
MENARD'S CIRCLE LuMBER 365 WEST UNIVERSITY DRIVE (MISHAWAKA) 1212 SouTH WALNUT (SouTH BEND) 
LowE's WICKES LUMBER 466o GRAPE ROAD (MISHAWAKA) 14130 McKINLEY AvE. (MISHAWAKA) (LOFT-BUILDING KITS AVAILABLE FOR $110) 
i"'"' ·-·. •,-.. ­
,ll.sdloot sldslisvA 1srltsgo1 gnills. 

r-------------,---------~·-~-~--...-----------­



Thursday, August 27 6:30P.M. 118 Niewland 
Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
(sponsored by KAPLAN and the N.D. Prelaw Society) 
page 15 
and Carlos Pierre-Antoine, and defensive lineman

Football 
Anthony Weaver, members of 
the freshmen class will be 

lighting for playing time. over the heat of being the new "There are some young men kids, this season Davie ended out there who will be able to the Irish tradition of putting a help this football team this black stripe on the freshmen's season, but so many things helmets. In the past, freshmen have to happen," Davie said. had to "earn" the right to have "They have to be durable. the stripe removed. They have to learn their 
"One thing we've talked assignments. They have to be about is being closer as a foot­unselfish. Most of all. they ball team, operating as a fam­have to be able to hit." ily," Davie said. "These kids With coach Davie opening ar& part of this football team, diseussions with reporters part of the family. I think it's Monday night after practice by better ofT to start them of'f' comparing his problems of 
with the gold helmet because stopping the run to President that's what they came here to Clinton's problems, develop­wear." ment on the defensive front is 
Davie is continuing the tra­a priority. dition of the Big Brother pro­The lone defensive lineman gram where a veteran of the in the freshman elass, Irish football squad pairs up Anthony Weaver, had been 
with a freshmen who they making some noise but he suf­have something in common fen~d a bruisB knee. with. ''I'm disappointed he has the 
"We try to do whatever we setback with the bruise," can to make it a little bit easi­Davie said. "But he's talented. er," Davie said. "! don't know He's a kid at 250 pounds that its so much the program because of his leverage, 
as much as it is all our kids strength and quickness. He's a trying to help each other kid that if he develops, he because they've all been looks like he can help this ·through it before." football team in comparison to 
"We announced the pairings other guys we've had in the the other night and they had past at this same stage. l·le's some fun with it," Davie con­got to get healthy and he's got tinued. "Our seniors take it to get healthy and develop, pretty serious, they have din­but he has the potential to get ner with them once a week, out here and help this football and at the end based on the team this year. rom excited younger brothers' reports we about him." select who was the big brother If the freshman class are not of the year and I think last making their impact in Notre year it was Ronnie Nicks and Dame Stadium on Saturdays, Jamie Spencer. But It's more they will provide mueh needed everybody helping everybody, depth to the Irish squad. and its not easy, it's a rough "We can't put too much transition for these kids." pressure on the freshmen," 
But the question remains: defensive coordinator Greg When will the Class of 2001 Mattison said. "The thing that help? I'm probably most excited 
With the defending co-cham­about is, I really truly can say pions of last year visiting when you ask, "who is the Notre Dame Stadium on Sept. backup," that backup I feel 
5, the freshmen have been really, really good about. trying to make their mark and We're getting to where we've help at thin positions. got some depth at every posi­"They have been impressive tion." 
and continue to be impressive At the beginning of practice with the pads on," Davie said. back on Aug.lO, Davie dis­"I think everyone is really cussed the philosophy con­encouraged about the future, cerning the freshmen. it's a talented class that has "There are just so many some size and some speed to things you have to consider it, weOre excited about them." about freshmen," he said. 
With the size and talent of "You never really know what players like wide re.ceivers you're going to get for a while. David Givens and Javin It just takes time. You have to 
Hunter, safety Rocky Boiman, keep a close eye on them." linebackers Tyreo Harrision Come Sept. 5 and the 
continued from page 24 
Please recycle 
The Observer. 
The Observer accepts classifteds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall, and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classi­
fieds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I 
The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for contenr without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
in the front door, go downstairs and there we are. Puttin' the 'jig' in jiggy. 

PUS. FURN. $175 mo. per person. grad. parents' wkends. $75-95/nt. 
272-6551 PERSONAL rC-ai-IA-lic-Fe_(o2-19R-)2-8s_2-A2_2_4L1-.E----, L ____T_I_c__KE__T__s __~ Because HEY--if we can put an THE OBSERVER: 
NOTICES 

FURNISHED ROOM, AIR.
Volunteer in Africa or Mexico. 
ND Football Tickets For issue out in the basement. we're The drinking team with a journal­KITCHEN, LAUNDRY FAG, 3 MIN. 

One year placements in vanous 
AM 232-2378 

N. OF CAMPUS. the bomb. And that's it. ism problem. 
sectors: human rights. community 
PM -288-2726 
Broadcasting to you live from the 272-0615 1109 Stanfield, $85,900 

development, youth, journalism, Wonderful, traditional two-story Hey, you have to--it's L-shaped. 
basemewnt of Hell. 

microenterprise, health, relugee 
For Sale 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­home in Harter Heights with Jots ofrelief. more. Internships in our 
Football tickets 
Shirley --We love you and hope It's only fitting that it'sthe first ISTRY fine homes within 10 miles hardwood, original chandeliers inWashington. D.C. off1ce. Visions in 

271-9412

of ND/SMC 219-291·7153 the living and dining room. Newer things are less stressful in the com­night of the year and ... surprise!
Action. (202) 625-7403. 
ing weeks. We're still down here! 
mechanicals and root, screenedVisions@igc.org Web: www.vision­
Wanted ND Football Tickets THAT PRETTY PLACE. porch and 3 bedrooms. Call Muriels1nact1on.org. 

271-1526 
MK--Welcome back. WHAT Think of all of the money that Bed and Breakfast Inn has space Botkin 280-8115 

chaos!! But things will settle down could be made if somebody actually ND Ftbl tix available for football. parent wknds. 
WANTED 5 Rooms with privatebaths, $80-1010 Oak Ridge, 5-bedroom, 3-and we'll rock again. sold all of this Classified space.Buy-Sell
$115, Middlebury, 30 miles /rom bath house. $109,000. Walk to ND. 
674-7645 
I love my nook. I fashioned it I should be out having fun rightcampus. Toll Road. Exit# 107, 1-Well-maintained, adapted for 

Looking for a roommate to share 800-418-9487. wheelchair user. 2-car garage. 
myself out of some oak lying now. But instead I'm in the base­house in Granger. 273·4674 ND Football-Buy-Sell. Season 
ment having equally as much fun. and individual game tickets GA·wooded Jot, central air, fireplace. around in my apartment. 
Life is great!. No it's really. really . FOR RENT COME VISIT THE OBSERVER'S not. Ok, maybe it might be but not FLYNN ND/SMC B&B Call Jane at 277·2755 
only

Private home, 10 mins from cam­
674-7645 

pus. 3 lovely room, one bath. 91 Tempo, Auto. 4dr,good body, NEW OFFICE IN SOUTH DINING tonight. 6 BDRM HOME~ OAM· ----.12adecltw.lattlllies or ca11pleo;; tLal/, ____(jJ[lS,Qreat $1 BQO/hest 25I·1IQ6.___..------HALL. 
. ---02456IJ'i'H1JI1'1Tftr RACL-:go----­
elling together. Available football. 
page !6 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 22, 1998 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Four teammates named finalists for Hermann trophy 
Beene, Grubb, Streiffer and Makinen in pursuit ofprestigious award 
Special to The Observer 

Four Notre Dame women's soccer players have been named finalists for the 1998 Hermann Trophy, which hon­ors the outstanding male and female collegiate soccer players. The four Irish finalists are junior goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene, junior defender Jen Grubb. junior forward Jenny Streiffer and sophomore midfielder Anne Makinen, a finalist for the award in 
1997 as a freshman. be listed on official ballots that will go winners of the 1998 Hermann Trophy 
Beene, Grubb, StreiiTer and Makinen out to a broader-based group of coach­will be announced Saturday, Dec. 12, are looking to become Notre Dame's es and media on Oct. 15. A write-in in a ceremony at the Richmond Centre, second recipient of the Hermann allowance also will be included on final in conjunction with the NCAA men's Trophy, joining 1996 winner Cindy ballots, which will be due Nov. 30. The soccer championship. 
Daws. Notre Dame's four finalists are the most of any school and is matched by only North Carolina, which also has four of the 15 finalists. 
A selection board comprised of coaches, media and U.S. national team directors partic­ipated in choosing the finalists, who will now 
Junior Jenny Streiffer looks to follow in the footsteps of former Irish player Cindy Daws by winning the Hermann trophy. 
GarucvrJ-Y~ r:?®rnC?~rJu ®v cnrnow ®ru~cflwg 
~v®~WM®~~a~~~a 
r--------------,
One Month Unlimited Tanning only $40.00 

Starting Labor Day: Tan the rest of '98 for $98 
University Commons by UP Mall Grape & McKinley near KMart 
272-7653 256-9656 

Thank you. Love Always Lil' Moo-Ha 
r--------------,
10 Tan!ling Bed
or 

Sessions only $35.00
______________.J 
1998 Women's Soccer Schedule 
Aug. 27 Sept. 1 Sept. 4 Sept. 6 Sept. 11 Sept. 13 Sept. 18 Ohio State at Michigan State West Virginia Pittsburgh vs Duke at Chapel Hill at North Carolina Rutgers 

Junior defender Jen Grubb, a Hermann trophy finalist, raked in numerous accolades in her sophomore cam­paign including all-American honors. 

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  LEADERSHu>  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  '  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  


ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Room 217 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6265 
~------------~--------~------~­
Saturday, August 22, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• WOMEN's SOCCER Sobrero joins team as volunter assistant Special to The Observer The Bloomfield Hills, Mich., Sobrero was invited to the U.S. native starred for Notre Dame national team camp in April priorKate Sob!'ero, former Notre from 1994-97 and was the NCAA to two games against ArgentinaDame women's soccer All­tournament defensive MVP as the and was selected for the roster. American and current U.S. Irish won the 1995 NCAA champi­Since then, she has played in eightwomen's soccer national team onship. From 1995-97, Sobrercr games for the U.S. national team member, will be a volunteer assis­was named All-America three over the summer and has started tant women's soccer coach, said times by the National Soccer four games. Sobrero started both University of Notre Dame women's Coaches Association of America games to help tlw U.S. win the soccer head coach Chris Petrucelli. and was voted Big East Conference Goodwill Games titl<~. Sobrero joins sixth-year assistant defensive player of the year as a The Irish are coming off a 23-1-1coach Carla Chin-Baker ·and sec­senior in 1997. Notre Dame played season in which they advanced to ond-year assistant coach Sue-Moy in three NCAA championship their fourth straight NCAA champi­Chin as a member of Petrucelli's games, four NCAA semilinals, won onship semifinal appearance and staff. She will work closely with the four conference titles and compiled won their third straight Big East defenders in addition to helping a 91-6-4 record during her four title. With nine starters returningwith the day-to-day coaching and years. Sobrero graduated from theThe Observer/Brandon Candura from the 1997 team, Notre Dame administrative duties of theFormer all-american Kate Sobrero will serve as a volunteer College of Science in May of 1998 opens its season Sept. 1, at assistant coach for the 1998 soccer season. women's soccer program. with a science-business degree. Michigan State.  
Welcome Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, Faculty, Staffand Students Papa invites your to get a $5 Certificate for FREE* *Join us for Lunch or Dinner between now and September 4, Show your Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross ID and Get a $5 Certificate. Redeemable at vour next visit. One certitkate per I. D. Dertitkate's mar not l1e combined with any other discount or ofter. Located at: 5110 Edison Lakes Parkway (corner ofMain St. & Edison Lakes Parkway) Mishawaka, IN (219) 271-1692 RESERVATIONS ACCPTED OPEN: Sunday-Thursday: 11 am -I 0 pm Friday-Saturday: 11 am -11 pm i=»e.r,~.~~ It's Fun, It's Fresh, It's Friendly ... It's the Italian You'll Fall In Love with.  Petrucelli said. "They're behind tactically, because everyone elseWoinen has done this before, but not physically or in any other aspect.continued from page 24 "But most importantly for them personally, they're fittingstatus. in very well with the team." Tulisiak, who hails from The four freshmen get theirMedina, Ohio, brings her experi­first taste of college soccer as theence as a regional Olympic Irish begin their quest for adevelopment team member to national championship with anthe Notre Dame squad. exhibition game against Ohio"The freshmen are about State on Thursday at Alumniexactly where I expected," Field. The athletic department is looking for a PA Annoncerfor the 1998­1999 men's and women's soccer home games. Experience in announcing and knowledge of soccer is preferred. Please call631-6159 for more information. Sa[on Cl'{<:>veau 
Welcome Freshmen and Parents  
c{)o~nne~  Welcome back to school Students and Faculty!  
@ YLoR..o.I  Our gift to you: $10 off first 1 hour massage or  
*To brigl1tcn your new donn* * lJirtbdays*  . A veda spa facial  
* bolidays* * . 1 . * specta occasions  AVEDA.·  
* . *cxan1 hme  or  
10% Stmlent Discount  $5 Ladies cut  
Large selection of fresh flowers, balloons and plants  $3 Men's cut  
Daily (lelivery to campus 1-800-224-4695  (With Lisa, Adrienne, or Jocelyn)  
1359 N. Ironwood* Sout/1 Bend, IN 46615 * (219)288-7551 Corner of£,/ison 1/2 mile /rom campus  Call now for your appointment and mention this ad for discounts!  
All major credit cards acceptecl  1733 N. Ironwood277-6767 South Bend, IN 46556 exp. 10/31/98  

page 18 The Observer • ADVERTISEMENT Saturdy, August 22, 1998
' 
I 
! ­
I i 
i 
t 

I 
I 
r 
I 
New Year New Look New Location 
Corne to our office on Monday from 3-5 p.m. to meet the editors and find out what reporting, editing and design positions are open for the 1998-1999 school year. 
If you have questions or can't make the Open House, stop by or call us anytime! 
• 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Heather Cocks, 1-4542 MANAGING EDITOR: Brian Reinthaler, 1-4541 NEWS EDITOR: Michelle Krupa, 1-5323 SPORTS EDITOR: Kathleen Lopez, 1-4543 VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Eddie Llull, 1-5303 SCENE EDITORS: Sarah Dylag, Kristi Klitsch, 1-4540 SMC EDITOR: M. Shannon Ryan, 1-4540 PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum, 1-8767 ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kerry McPartlin, 1-6900 AD DESIGN MANAGER: Brett Huelat, 1-8767 

............... 
Saturday, August 22, 1998 

The Observer • SPORTS 
page 19 
• SMC SoccER 

Belles hope incoming class can fill vacant positions 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Tlw bench is often a lonely seat reserved for freshmen. 
The nine freshmen on Saint Mary's soccer team. however, will not have time to slump on the sidelines. With the depar­ture of four seniors, including single-season scoring record­holder Eileen Newell, head coach Hobert Sharp will have l'mshmen assigned to the lield. 
"We're looking to use the frnshmen as startnrs or key contributors," Sharp said. "We look to use them all in games this year. We just have to get them used to the college level of play." 
Usually about five freshmen appear on the roster. Thanks to improved communication and the team's second year in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Athletic Association, that num­ber has almost doubled. 
"I made a lot more phone calls and follow-up letters. I think tho publicity of joining the conference helped, too," Sharp said. ''I'm beginning my third year here, and this is the best recruiting year I've had." 
Three of the players hail from Michigan, which Sharp said is in part due to the school's enrollment in the MIM. 
The class of 2002 brings four midtielders, four defenders and one forward to the squad. 

Sharp not only brought in the numbers but rounded up the talent in hopes of turning 
around  last  season's  7-13  
record.  
Most  come  from  high  

schooiOs with solid programs and many led their teams to sectional playoffs. 
First year players who are projected by Sharp to have sig­nificant impact on the team are Melissa Wychok'i, Adrian Kirby and Erica Ziegler. 
All three received high school conference honors and· are aca­demic scholarship recipients at Saint Mary's. 
Wychocki could easily devel­op into one of the strongest players for the Belles. She was 
named all-area midfielder and helped lead Lake Central High ·School in St. John, Ind., to the Indiana Final Four. Her team suffered only one loss during 
her senior season. 
Her speed should be her best 
asset, however she may need to 
fine-tune her one-on-one com­
bat skills. She said she is also 
hoping to develop more than 
one fake to contribute as an all­
around force on the field. 
Ziegler not only received an 
all-conference honorable men­
tion but was named team cap­
tain and Michigan's East 
Kentwood High School's most 
valuable defender. 
King, also from Michigan, 
was named all-city and all-dis­trict for her work as a midfield­
er on Grand Rapids Catholic 
Central High School's squad. As 
a two-year captain, she holds 
the team record for most goals 
in a season (26) and most goals 
in a single game (4). 
Like Wychocki, her speed will 
be her gift to the team. 
''I'm pretty quick-I can move with the ball pretty well," King said. 
Sharp will use two-a-day practices and conditioning drills to prep the young talent for their next level of soccer. 
The freshmen's first chance to see how they measure up in college play will take place Sept. 2 at home against Illinois Wesleyan. 

Atr~a 

RECREATIONAL SPORTS
1357 N. Ironwood Drive 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME

z89-so8o ~a£ofil. 
South Bend, IN 46615 


Present Ad and receive a manicure and pedicure Both for only $15.00 
(reg. priced $47.00) with any retail purchase of $15.00 
We carry the full line ofAveda retail 
(Certain 
Welcome Students! 
lntramurals Fitness RecServices Club Sports 

Located in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 631-6100 www.nd.edu/-recsport 
RECSPORTS STAFF WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE RSRC TO ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT OUR PROGRAM 


• MEN'S SWIMMING 

Szilier named to Team USA 
Saturday, August 22, 1998 


1998 
Football Schedule 

Sept. 5 Michigan Oct. 24 Army Sept. 12 at Michigan Oct. 31 Baylor 
State Nov. 7 at BC Sept. 26 Purdue Nov. 14 at Navy Oct. 3 Stanford Nov. 21 LSU Oct.10 at Arizona Nov. 28 at USC 
State 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame sophomore Dan Szilier has been selected as a member of Team USA for the 1999 World University Games in the 200-meter breaststroke. The Norristown, Pa., native and former Methacton High School standout finished seventh at the Phillips 66 National Championships to qualify for the national team. He will trav-

Got some spare time? Interested in working for Sports? Call 1-4543. Paying jobs are available. 

el with Team USA to Mallorca, Spain, for the Games on July 8­13, 1999. 
Szilier placed seventh at the National Championshi;>s on Aug. 12, in Clovis, Calif. He swam 2:17.13 in the trials and 
2:17.43 in the finals. He is com­ing off a freshman year at Notre Dame in which he helped the Irish placed fourth at the BIG EAST championship, their highest finish ever, and win the Notre Dame Invitational. 
He will become the first mens swimmer from Notre Dame to qualify for a U.S. national team in the 40-year history of the program. Szilier will follow in the footsteps of another Notre Dame swimmer in the World University Games. Erin Brooks capped off her Notre Dame career with a bronze medal in the 200-meter backstroke at the 1997 Games in Sicily. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 
General information session with Fr. Timothy Scully, C.S.C., Vice President and Senior Associate Provost 

Immediately following the general4:30 information session, which will last approximately 20 minutes, sessions for the various pro­grams will be held in the following rooms: 
London -Arts and Letrers  
London  -Engineering (Summer)  Arena  
London-En)!;inccrin)!; (Fall)  
London-Business  
lnsbruek, Austria  l'vlonogram Room C  
Dublin, Ireland  1\lonogram Room A  
Angers, France  1\lonogram Room B  
Semester Around the World (51\!C)  Fieldhouse  
Athens, Greece  
Cairo, Egypt  
Jerusalem  Auditorium, Room C14  
Na)!;oya, Japan  Swimming Pool Classroom  
Rome, Italy (51\IC) ,an) can  Auxiliary Gvm 3 (B-1)  
1\lexico City, 1\lexico  
tvlontcrrey, tvlexico Santiago, Chile  Gate 8, Gym I  
Toledo, Spain  

Fremanrlc, Australia Gate I0, Gym 2 

The Student Activities Office presents. .. 
1998 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER OPEN HOUSE 
-featuring 
JDAnthonyJia~ef TRAVEL FAIR 



Free Video Garnes 
ND Trivia 

./BtY"tyt/icJ_a aJ-?d<tf~lf-::5t?c«~/0 
Door Prizes 

BINGO for prizes 
Free Caricatures 
Free Billiards Contests Free Photo Buttons &Keychains The B I liliEST Game of UNO You'ue EUER Played! 
Lester the Fod 
Free Popcorn! 

'?ue SH<U<~-etmU! 
SUNDAY, AUGUST 23, 1998 7:00 P.M. -10:00 P.M. 
~~ .. ~....~· ....... 
• 

Saturday, August 22, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• VOLLEYBAU 
Brown in search of formula for success 
By BILL HART 
Assistam Sports Editor 
For wonwn's vollnyball head roal'h l>Pbhi!l Brown, it's time to rnhuild lwr toam. 
Again. 
Two ynars ago. Notre Dame graduatPd OIW of tJw Strongest classes in tlw st'hool's vollny­hall history -a team that hoastl'd a i!i-9 rnrord and a trip to till' Swtlet Sixtenn. Now, what may hurt thtl Irish tlw most is tlw loss of last ymLr's snniors .laimie L1w and Angie llarris, who wnre considered hy many !lXperts to bn one of the top classmate~ combina­tions in NCAA history. 
"I think it's a situation wlH'I'!' you can't just rnplar.e a s!'nior class likn that," Brown r!'marktHI. "Thtlre's no magie equation you ean liSP to plug in tiH' gaps." 
Still, tlw Irish amassed one 0 r tlw s t r 0 n g est in e()Ill in g classtlS in rtlennt mornory, with l'ivll playPrs strong enough in their positions to pos!' a thrnat to tlw r!Jturning startPrs. At the same time, eal'h has nrHnrgh vnrsatility to stnp into otlwr positions as rwedlld. 
Tlw dass is led by Marcin Bomhack, tlw most lwralded and ho11ornd or tlw newcom­Prs. llomhal'k. who hails from Waukosha. Wise., was named to the Volleyball Magazine h o 11 or a b I!' m P n t ion A11­AIIII'rkan squad with just 23 otlwr players. In lwr senior year at Catholic Memorial lligh Sehonl, slw loci lwr tnam to the I1J1J7 stai.!J titlo, while snlting school roeords l'or career kills (1301) and blocks (2SS). She was also recently named a national "Fab-50" selection. 
"The first thing that stands out about Marcie is her hitting skills." Brown stated. "She also is a very good blocker and has exwlrience playing every position in the rro.nt 
row." 
Malinda Goralski, also a Fab-SO selection. led her team to tho '97 regional title, earn­ing team MVP and all-state honors in the procoss. In her senior year, the Missouri City, Texas, native posted a .440 hitting percentage while com­mitting just throe service nrrors over the course of 39 matchns. 
"Malinda is a good natural blocknr who has very large hands and jumps well," Brown said about the middle blocker. "She does a great job or pene­trating through the net, wlwnms most players tend to go straight up. Malinda also inoves well laterally and just loves to block. That's some­thing you have to have if you are going to be a good block­
er.n 
Kristi Kreh!lr, after making a vnrbal commitment to Notre Dame in February or 1997, finished her second year as team captain for a Marian lligh School team that was ranknd fifth in the state of Michigan. 
As a junior. slw was named the team's MVI' after earning lwr second straight all-state rncognition. By tho start of the season, she will probably pro­vide support as a right-side hitter. 
"We are very excited with the versatility that Kristi will provide," Brown remarked on Kreher. "She is a classic right­side hitter but ean go on the le!'t if we need her to. She has a great left-handed swing and plays well in the back row. She'll be an important player for our program." 
Two late transfers round out the new class for the Irish. Miehelle Graham, a native of Austin, Texas, and a transfer from the University or Oregon. will take the back-up position for setter Denise Boylan while sophomore Lauren Stettin rehabilitates artor back surgery. 
"Miehelle has helped us tremendously throughout the practiees," Brown commented on the transfers. "She's a very good setter who's extremely competitive. That allows for us to have really competitive practices and scrimmages this season." 
Emily Tarpoff, a transfer from the U.S. Air Force Academy, suffered a torn ACL on tho l'irst day of practice and is expected to bo out for the entire season. 
While the returning players otTer a wealth of talent and experience, Brown expects that the incoming class will be put to the tBst right off the bat. 
"I think they all will definite­ly make an impact on our team. It's too early to say right now whether any of them will start this year, but they will del'initely get a lot of playing time as the season goes on." 

The Observer/Joe Stark With the graduation of outside hitter Jaimie Lee, the Notre Dame vol­leyball squad will be counting on a team effort to fill the void. 
Extra! Extra! 
The Power Macintosh G3 is the fastest computerwe've ever built.With the brutish PowerPC'" G3 processor at its heart, the G3 connects quickly to the Internet, opens PC files with ease, increases personal productivity, and unlocks creativity-at asurprisingly affordable price. 
But wait, it get~ better. Ifyou purchase a PowerMac·· G3 desktop or minitower or a PowerBook G3 between July 11 and October 24, you can also choose one of these three powerful add-ons at no additional cost. 


Think different. 
32MB ofAdditional Memory Add this, and you have the capability to access the Internet while running multiple software applications. It also lets you work with high-end multimedia/publishing applications and squeeze every ounce of performance out of feature­rich word processing and spreadsheet software or DVD­ROMs. Virtual PC 2.0 with Windows 95 just add Virtual PC and its no problem to run popular PC programs on your Mac. $100 Display Rebate Add an Apple 17" or Apple 20" display (16.1 and 19.02 inch diagonal viewable image size) to your Power Macintosh G3 desktop, minitower, or PowerBook 


computer.and you have the option of receiving a$100 rebate. Free Bonus Offer for Higher Ed ONLY! One YearApplecare· Service Plan Receive aFREE year ofAppleCare'' service coverage as abonus. This is in addition to the original one year-limited warranty for atotal of two years of service coverage. 
©I~Wl Appk-Ctllllpllh.'l: Inc. All ri~ln~ rc~·m•tl. Apple, the Appll' lo~u. ,\lacintnsh. 1~11\'Cr ~!acinto~h.l~)WCrl\ook. i~lac. and "Think tllffcnmt'' an.• tradcl\lark.' of Apjlk• Cumputcr, Inc.. no~btm~d in the l!.S.A. and utlwrwuntriL'~. \'irtu:1l PC L' :1\r.ulcmark of Counet:tix AppleCart! is arc~SIL'll'tlscn·in• mark of r\pple Cmllllllll'r, lnc.l'mwrPC I~ atrademark of lnternalionalllusincs.' ~lachilll'.'i Corporation. usrd uuder licrn...;c thl·refrum tither product :tud comp:m)· ll:lllll'~ mcntimwd hcl\'111 ma~ hl' tradL•mark.' nl thl'ir respl'CII\"l' Wlllp:mic~. ,\ll'ntion of non-1\ppll' tlrmhlcb i~ fur inli•rmatimml purposrs only anti cunstilutt•s nrithrr :m cmlorsement uor arccommcndatlon. Appll• :l,,llllll'~ 1m rcspnn~ihiht~ wnh n..'~ln.lto the \L'k'Ctttm. perform:mcc. or UM" of thl'~ jlroducK 1\'rfnrmaucc cumpari.'ilms arL' h:L~d unliYTEmark lllll'~cr imlex. ' 
www.a le.com/education or 1-800 877-4433 
page 22 
Soccer 

continued from page 24 
might come in the persons of Shane Walton, Matt Husso, and Tim Storino­all members of the Class of 2002. 
"We'vn created an environment where the team is committed to a strong work comes to filling out the lineup card. 
Almost as if it had been planned, the freshmen now have the opportuni­ty to get game experi­ence due to the early injuries of captain Matt Johnson and Heggie McKnight at midfield, and Griffin Howard at defense. 
"This is a good reason to get them out there," said coach Berticelli on the role that the fresh­men now have as the season comes to a start. 
"It's real important for the team that I step up with Howard out," com­mented freshman Tim Storino. Selected as one of the top defenders in Illinois by the Chicago Tribune and Chicago Sun Times, Storino is quickly making his name known on the college level.
Senior forward Ben Bocklage (left) and Phil Murphy hope the Irish return to their Big East championship form of 1996. 
"I never expected it," 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Saturday, August 22, 1998 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
The men's soccer squad will be dependent on its veterans as well as its newcomers as it looks to utilize depth in the 1998 campaign. 
recuperate from minor injurins. 
It is often said that pressun~ situations are the best way to gain knowledge and experience. For this year's squad, this holds true not just for the freshmen, but for the entire team. 
"Its been a real comfortable adjust~ ment," said Walton. "The seniors and juniors are not just throwing me out there, they're going with me." 


ethic," explained head coach Mike Berticelli. "And not just for the freshmen, but for everyone [on the team]." 
By stressing this goal equally among the_ freshmen as well as the upperclassmen, the new members of the squad are gain­ing the same experience as the upper­classmen. Being able to count on Walton, Russo and Storino places Berticelli in an 
easier position when it 
said Storino on gaining playing time this early in 
·his career. "But the upperclass­men, especially [captain] Phil Murphy are tak­ing me under their wing, mak­ing it all pretty easy." 
Fellow fresh­man Shane Walton's experi­ences have been much the same thus far, as the forward is look­ing to gain time early on due to the injuries. 
"Walton is a fast, athletic for­ward that has already estab­lished himself on the team," explained coach Berticelli. The raw ability of the southern California native, coupled with the transition to the Irish system, will produce a freshman whose only bench time may be before the games start. 
Completing the triumvirate is Matt Russo, whose good preseason eil'ort gives the Irish continued confidence at the mid­field spot. He too will see additional play­ing time early on as the upperclassmen 
1t 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge --·· ,· .
· 

Authentic Szechuan. Mandarin and . · · . _ 
Hunan Cuisine · • · 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 

~ 
Dinners starting at ....$5.95 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
GR£AT\YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
CARPETLAND USA 
GREAr DORM ROOM 


Don't leave for school without a carpet for your room! Carpet remnants are the perfect way to make a dorm room feel more like home. And right now, you'll find huge discounts on every carpet remnant in our store! 

Sarurday, August 22, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
eu'T I WA~ ONL'( lF I. READ '1'0 UR
ALICE I TI-\P..N\<. 'YOU FOR 
~ENOI.NG IT TO YOU REACTION RIGHT, RESPONSE 'TO IV\'( 
'YOUR 'TWELVE-PA-GE. 
A& A-N "FYI:· 1'140SE. 'YOU'RE WONDERING 
DECISIONS WI-lY I OION'T AR( ALR£AOY SA,'( FYI. ON M'( 
-.-:»..'--~ M A 0 E . 

E-MAIL LAST WEEK.. 
E-MAIL. 
BILL AMEND FOXTROT 

I<ATtE, SWE.E'TtE, 
J 
HMM. THE SCISSoRS 
tF 'l'ouR Mo~ER 

MoMMY,LET'S Go o~ER KATIE 
PART tS uNA'\IotDABLE, BliJ' 
FtNOS ouT I FELL EXACTLY. kATtE THtS BEI'oRE 'YouR GoT 
l lliE LA.Sl Btl CouLD uSE 
ASLEEP oN TME J'uST GoT MoM MTS HOM£. Sct~SoRS 
ISoME TwtAI<U-4G. TRY 
:JoB, SHE'LL BE LikE SCI~SoRS WHAT ARE WE WtftLE 
• '\YHtL£ PAtvf WAS SoRT-
REALL'f', REALLY THAT. WHtLE GootN& TO TELL PAtGE 
l
iN& FLASH CARPS" oR 
._N&R'l' Willi ME. PAtGEHlR HAPPEN£!) To SLUPtG.' 
"WHtL£ PAt6E WAS CHAN&· 
fLASHIG
\

'l\::luR DRESS?' 
1 INGo 'ni~ MoZART CD.'' 
MoZART.'
I 
I

'Q \ ··tl 11 ' 
)! .....' 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Spend some time delving into life's mysteries. Spiritual growth will make you more appreciative of what you have. An e~hilaraling on-the-job experience could alter your career plans. Heart-to-heart talks will nur­ture a promising love relationship. Your social life accelerates in late summer. Exercising tighter control oyer family spending will make-a vacation possible late in '97. Reach out to a newcomer who lives alone. A business alliance flourishes. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Joanne Wood­ward. author John Steinbeck, first daughter Chelsea Clinton, consumer advocate Ralph Nader. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Not a good time to make impulsive changes at work or hpme. Maintain the status quo in a romantic relation­ship. A lesson learned in the past influences your plans for the future. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A member of the opposite sex is inter­ested but shy. A friendly gesture or invitation could melt the ice. Be punctual to all appointments. A good financial adviser is worth his weight in gold. 
GEMINI (May 21-June :!0): It is up to you to promote domestic har­mony. Avoid choosing sides in a spat. Someone may ask you to pay his expenses on a special outing. Are you ready for a bigger commitment' 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Major decisions are best postponed until after lunch. You are more like­ly to chalk up financial gains late in the day. Investments involve a cer­tain amount of risk; rely on expert advice. 
LEO (July :!3-Aug. 22): Avoid getting in over your head even if you are brimming: with confidence 
and enthusiasm. ·Your friends and 
financial resources arc not inex­
haustibk. Be affectionate. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Greater self-assurance will convince 
others that you know what you arc 
doing. Someone from your past 
wants to hear from you. Consulting 
an old address book will vield valu­
able infonnation. · 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Retirees have a lot to offer their 
community. Stop being a spectator 
and get involved! Your organization­
al skills will make a big difference 
to a charitable organization. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 2 I): 
Be cautious where a new business 
venture is concerned. Although the 
road ahead appears clear, there 
could be pitfalls. Let a romance 
develop in its own sweet time. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): New acquaintances may not be 
all they seem. Forgive someone who 
made a mistake. A tolerant attitude 
is the key to better rapport with a 
siblin~. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Someone mav not be int.::·ested 
in hearing your plans. Instead '" tak­
ing offen;e, seek a more rec. ptive 
audience. Your romantic parttwr 
would like to take the initiative k . 
change. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): .You and a co-worker may be on dif­
ferent wave lengths now. Try to stay 
out of this person's way. An unusual 
assignment gives you a chance to 
impress higher-ups. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Face a relationship problem head­on. Calm discussion is needed. nnt heated debate. Be honest if you have not done as much as you can to help a loved one. 


The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.loin the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
--..

0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City----------State _____ Zip.________ 
.. 

-------_________________________....::...:.._____________.........J 



• Volleyball head coach • Kate Sobrero, former 
Debbie Brown looks for Irish player and 
freshmen to challenge National team member 
for starting positions. 
joins the women's soccer coaching staff ..

PORTS 
p.21 
p.l7 
O THE 

Saturday, August 22, 1998 BSERVER page 24 
• FtHHBAll 

Blue chippers make transition to campus 
By JOE CAVATO freshmen reported for their first wo.rk­. Associate Sports Editor out Aug. 10. "You're kind of like little kids at Christmas. You've had those Several weeks ago, they finally packages there, they're wrapped, arrived. you've heard all the good things that 
Head coach Bob Davie's recruiting are inside those packages." class ranked in the nation's top five, For almost two weeks, those athletes and both he and Irish fans across the have been trying to make the jump nation hope this class will help bring from the high school ranks -where Notre Dame back to its traditional foot­most of them were the best on the field ball standards. -to Division I football. where oppo­
"The first day of freshman practice is nents and teammates have the same probably one of the most exciting events personal accolades they received. for the coaches," Davie said when the And now, with freshmen orientation 
weekend upon them, the players have to start worrying about finding their classes, finding creative ways to get the most space out of their dorm rooms, getting used to the dining hall, and finding out what the heck a graffiti 
Veteren flanker Bobby Brown (88) shows freshmen wide receiver Javin Hunter the ropes
dance is. 
durning the two-a-day practices this week as the Michigan game is just two weeks away.
But those adjust­ments are a 
These kids are coming out here going
just kids come in and their students for a 
handful of the transi­about 16 hours a day all football, month and they kind of ease into the 
tions they are mak­
they're sore, they're confused a little college lifestyle," Davie said. "You ing. bit, they get thrown into this before they always worry because in recruiting you"It's a growing ever step onto that campus for a class. sell the University and academics and a 
experience in every 
It's a huge transition." certain lifestyle. When they get here facet," Davie said 
With football, a key difference from those first couple of weeks are difl'erent after last Monday's 
other sports teams is that they are from what they may have bargained for, practice. "This is not thrown into practice before they receive they're thrown into the fire right away." a whole lot like what their class schedules. In efforts to help the freshmen getNotre Dame is as "You look at college basketball and 
being a student here. see FOOTBALL I page 1 5 
• t' ~-L.; • '};.;;il .I'll ,, ; 
1 

otre Dame returns solid IJneup 
By ALLISON KRILLA Associate Sports Editor 

With nine starters returning from the 1997 NCAA semifinal campaign, the Notre Dame women's soccer team's four freshmen face a smooth transi­tion. 
There are no lofty expectations placed on Elizabeth Wagner, Lindsey Jones, Mia Sarkesian or Kelly Tulisiak, even despite the departure of All-Americans Holly Manthei and Kate Sobrero. 
"To expect any freshman to come in and do the things Kate and Holly did is really unreason­able," head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "All of (the fresh­
The men's soccer squad will look to the Class of 2001 to provide some men) are going to play an impor­scoring punch to fill the void left by year's top two scorers. 
tant role on this team. But it's difficult to ask a freshman to step into a senior's role."
Freshman could see 
As the Irish make another run at the NCAA championship, the 
• 
freshmem can add depth to a solid and experienced squad. 
l e iate action 
Goalkeeper Elizabeth Wagner finds herself learning the tools of By ANTHONY BIANCO field. her trade from a master junior Freshmen midfielders Lindsey and John Adams High School Last loss
Sports Writer year's of Notre all-American LaKeysia Beene. Jones, Mia Sarkesian and Kelly product, brings impressive ath­
Dame's top two leading scorers, However, Wagner is no slouch in Tulisiak will add depth to a leticism to the program.Contrary to the norm, learning seniors Ryan Turner and Bill the net, having earned Parade 
somewhat depleted area of the Sarkesian delivers a stellar 

the game from the sideline is not Savarino, left the Irish question­and National Soccer Coaches field, the outside. With Manthei's resume from Canton, Mich.,
what the incoming freshmen are ing who would lead the team to Association of America High departure and Kara Brown's where the Plymouth Salem Highbeing called on to do. Instead, the net for the 1998 campaign. School All-American honors. The move to defense, the freshmen School graduate also garneredthe Irish soccer squad is count­Early on, it became apparent Spring, Texas, native was also will give the Irish a boost where Soccer America Top 25 senior ing on a couple of them to gain that the answer for the Irish one of Soccer America's Top 25 they need it most. 
their experience on the playing high school seniors. 
Jones, a South Bend resident 

see SOCCER I page 20 see WOMEN I pagel7 





vs Michigan fftt ~. vs Valparaiso September 5, 2:30 p.m. kfv1 September 1, 7:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 
vs Loyola, Purdue, Buder 
ATA 

September 12, 11 a.m. at Michigan State at Valparaiso 
•

September I, 4 p.m . September 1, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 
• 


