
-------------~ 
• Junior Jenny Heft scored her team-leading 
• Movie Scene reviews Jackie Chan's latest "Rush 
Monday
eighth goal against Villanova yesterday. The 
Hour," and "One True Thing," starring Meryl Streep. 
Irish won 5-0 to improve to a 4-0 record in 
Also, be sure to check out the Video Pick of the 
SEPTEMBER
the Big East. 
Week. 

Sports • 24 

Scene·12 
21, 1998 

VOL XXXII NO. 19 
• MULTICUL:TURAL BEAT 


AFL-CIO leader speaks on Hispanic labor 
By RUTH SNELL 
New' Writer 
Tlw best way to honor Hispanic hnritage lins in tlw future. according to Linda Chavez­Thompson. t.lw nxerut.ive vic1~ president of' the i\mPrican FPderation of' Labor-Congress of' Industrial Organazations (i\FL-CIOJ. 
"W" can make a land wlwre justicn is done. It is in our hands to do it," said C:havnz­Thompson, tlw higlwst-ranknd woman in thn labor movnment. C:havez-Thompson spoke at Saint Mary's College Saturday as part of' the llispanir ll1~ritage Month celebration. 
"Tiw lwst way to honor !the llispaniel lwr­ilage is lo makn life a little bdter f'or our brotlwrs and sisters, who are our family," said Chavnz-Tiwmpson. 
Drawing f'rorn lwr own oxporionces in the labor movonwnl and her own leadership ~~xpnrinnc:es within both the llispani1: commu­nity and tho labor movement. Chavoz­Thompson ~~rnphasized the importance of' lwritagn month. 
Thn daughter of' Texan cotton shareerop­rwrs, Chavez-Thompson has bn1m in the labor movement f'or :~1 years. 
I·:IPcted to the o!Tice of' vice pn1sident in Oc:tobnr of' 19CJS, Chavez-Thompson is the first woman nlnc:tnd to the i\FL-CIO and the first Latina nwr Ploctnd. 
"li\FL ol'lirnrsl ran as a slate of' people who wantPd to mak<' changes f'or all workers in this country," she said. 
Change l)('gan in lwr lif'n 48 years ago, whnn slw was a studnnt in an ora of' prnju­dinl. 
i\ tPadwr. disIiking Chavnz-Thom pson's Hispanic: namn, changed it from Lydia to Linda lwcausn Latinos wnre considered sec­ond-class eitizons. 
"Tiw pain and confusion of' that day has nnvPr rnally gone away. It is still in my heart Now millions of' us havn struggled and 
dnHtmnd and won," slw said. Tlwir platform was inclusion. When the group was asknd to run, tlwy dncidm! to sPnd 
see HERITAGE I page 4 

THE 

WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
• KEOUGH HALL CHARIOT RACE 

KeoughjWelsh team takes chariot race 
By RACHEL HOPH 
News Writer 

The first annual Keough llall Chariot Hace took place Saturday artcrnoon on the McGlinn fields. 
Micah Murphy and Joe Schneider lirst developed the idea for the race last year when they wore running for president and vice-president of Knough Hall. 
John Micek, the social chairman, thought the first race was a huge success. 
"It was incredible," he said. "There were 450 or SOO people there, and wn were really, really happy with the turnout. We're hop­
ing the race keeps growing larger every year." 
The spectators turned out early for the free food and music provid­ed by Keough Hall. 
"It was a lot of fun," said Mary Calash, who was there to cheer on her Welsh Family Hall team. "The teams got pretty competitive and showed a lot of spirit." 
Seven teams competed two at a time in a number of heats. Each heat consisted of one lap around the circular track until the final race which was two laps. Each chariot was pulled by four people and had one rider. 
Some teams tried to gain an 
advantage by cutting through the center of the track and hopping on their competitors' chariot to try to knock the whenls loose. In thn end, however, the joint team of Keough Section 21\-Welsh Family llall claimed the victory. Both dorms received championshif5 plaques. 
"It's a great now tradition," said Katy Soby, who rode in the winning chariot. "Keough put a lot of hard work into organizing the whole event, and thny did a groat job." 
Plaques were also awarded to Keough Section 41\ for tho b11st looking chariot and to Keough Section 3B for tho chariot least like­ly to finish the race. 


Unkage program connects SMC and Holy Cross 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Collnge," said Mary Pat 
junior college, I thought, 'No normally nnroll at Saint News Writer Nolan, Director of' way, I'm going to go to a Mary's," said Vinennt Duke, i\d missions. four-year university.' But director of admissions at Jloly 
Wlwn f'rnshman Cassin Yatns Participation in the pro­then I thought about it, and Cross College. applind to Saint Mary's Collngn gram is by invitation from I wanted the opportunity." Yet studnnts who partic:ipatP in thn fa II of' hnr snn ior ynar, the Admissions Office, which "It is a very good opportu­in the program assort that it is slw was not expeding to be enrolls approximately 20 nity to offer to a student not an nasy task to be involved accc~ pt11d. students each year. Students who otherwise we might not in thn program. and cited high­
lnstnad of a rnjnction lntter. takn f'our classes at Holy be able to accept." said er stress levels and time man­hownvnr. Yatns rnctdvnd an Cross and one class at Saint Nolan. "We can say, 'come agement as challnngfls. invitation f'rom tlw College to Mary's. to this program. do well and Casn remembers strnss as a j o i n tlw II o I y Cross/Saint Contingent upon com pie­potential linkage students. become a Saint Mary's stu­continuing burden. Mary's linkagn program. which lion of classes with a 3.0 GPA Gina Case, a sophomore who dent,' which, by virtue of their "Getting a 3.0 in high school could pot1mtially lwlp her real­at the end of freshman year, completed the program last application, students have is ono thing, but in college it's ize lwr goal of' admission to students can thnn become full­semester, remembers this expressed a desire to be." another," she said. "My study­Saint Mary's in the future. time Saint Mary's students in unsettling feeling. While the program does help ing time went way up -I was 
The program, established in thnir sophomore year with no "I applied to three schools, with recruitment for Saint determined to make it in." I992, is "an opportunity for loss of' credit. and I knew that I totally want­Mary's, there are distinct Yates is experiencing the women with strong academic Yet the idea of attending a ed to go to Saint Mary's," she advantages for Holy Cross. same struggle. potnnlial, but who may not be junior college for a year was a said. "When I got a letter say­"It allows us to enroll 20 stu­"We've been given tliis ready for Saint Mary's drawback for Yates and other ing I was going to go to a dents a year who would not 
see LINKAGE I page 4 



I 
I 
I ! page 2 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 


Save Core 
The word on the street is that the powers that be are once again considering getting rid of the Core course from the Arts and Letters department. Two years ago I wrote a column arguing that not only should Arts and Letters Eddie Llull students be required to Viewpoint Editor take Core, but that it should be mandatory for every college in the University. Now Notre Dame wants to termi­nate it all together. To do so would be a mis­take. 
I realize that not everybody's experience with Core is stellar and the course could prob­ably use some improvement. On the other hand, for some Arts and Letters students, Core is their most memorable classroom experi­ence. The fact that the Core department reviews and revises the course onh a yearly basis, in an attempt to improve it, is beside the point. 
My point is that the concept of such a course at a university is essential to what a university should be -whether or not we enjoy the course as students does not matter. 
Within the College of Arts and Letters, the Core course brings some sense of unity and provides common ground for the different majors. It forces students to rethink their own views, while at the same time enabling them to challenge the views and prejudices of their classmates. It also introduces the Arts and Letters student to different important intellec­tual works that they otherwise might not come in contact with in their four years at Notre Dame. Such works are basic tenets of acade­mia and essential to a university education ­at the least they are essential to a liberal arts education. 
So I am confused as to the reasoning behind the move to abolish Core. And don't tell me its a money issue, what with the sidewalks that keep appearing around campus on a daily basis. Stop building sidewalks everywhere, take that money and keep Core going. In fact, expand it to every college at Notre Dame. 
Such an expansion would allow the physics major to argue with the computer science major about the significance of Lincoln's sec­ond inaugural address. It would force the accounting major, in the midst of trying to secure that job when he or she graduates, to contemplate the existence of God. (I'm sure all the business majors out there are thrilled with this suggestion, but then again none of you can tell me that you love the classes you're taking now anyway.) 
Sure, the University has certain require­ments that actually force all majors to delve into the worlds of philosophy and theology and whatever else. But this is not enough. Even for the liberal arts major, it is impossible to expe­rience the wide range of material that Core offers within their major(s) alone. 
So for all you out their that need a cause to fight for (i.e. Aaron Kreider, Professor Manier), I give you this: Fight to keep at least the char­acter of the College of Arts and Letters in line with the concept of the University. Let the University know that you think the course is important to your vision of Notre Dame. When we succeed in this venture, we'll bring Core to . every college at the University. 
Beware, COBA. 
(Point of clarification to all my business friends: You know I have nothing against you or your college because I am going to be bum­ming off you and your jobs when we graduate.) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Scene Bill Uniowski Mike Vanegas Noreen Gillespie Graphics Finn Pressly Pete Cilella Sports Production Bill Hart Kathleen Lopez Viewpoint Lab Tech Spencer Stefko Bret Hogan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday duough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are ~eserved. 

Monday, September 21, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Fraternity indicted for manslaughter, hazing 
CAMBRIDGE,Mass. 

The MIT chapter of Phi Gamma Delta has been indicted by a Suffolk County grand jury on one count of manslaughter and one count of haz­ing following the death of freshman Scott S. Krueger last fall. 
In announcing the indictments, Suffolk County District Attorney Ralph C. Martin II said they 'are based upon specific actions that occurred on the night of September 27, and that those actions were related to traditional pledge event sponsored and sanctioned' by Fiji. 
The fraternity as a whole 'acted in a reckless and wanton way,' which fits the criminal definition of manslaughter, Martin said. 
MIT, the Malcolm Cotton Brown Corporation, which owns the Fiji house, and specific individuals were not indicted yesterday. The fraterni­ty as a collective body was indicted 
• UNIVERSnY OF MICHIGAN 
Drugs, alcohol factor in student death 
ANN ARBOR, MI 

Preliminary reports released by the Ann Arbor police department indicate both drugs and alcohol were factors in the Tuesday death of sophomore Chris Giacherio, said his father, Don Giacherio, yesterday. Formal autopsy results and a toxicology report are expected to be pub­lished today, AAPD officials said. Giacherio was found mid­morning Tuesday in the bathroom of a friend's home at 909 Packard St. It is not known if he was alone at the time of his death. Don Giacherio said his son did not have any substance abuse problems of which he was aware. Giacherio's mother, Rose Giacherio, said the funeral will be held today at Muehlig Funeral Chapel in Ann Arbor and will include a viewing period from 2 p.m. until 8 p.m. and a formal service at 8 p.m. Counseling is available for stu­dents, staff and faculty through Counseling and Psychological Services, said Maureen Hartford, vice presi­dent for student affairs. 
• Sr. BoNAVHHURE Soccer players involved in bar fight 
ALLEGANY, PA 

The athletic department and Allegany police are investi­gating a fight that occurred at Shooters early Wednesday morning involving two members of the men's soccer team. According to the police report, officers responded to a call at 2:30 a.m. from the bar reporting a fight. Police inter­viewed sophomore soccer player Nick Cammarata, 19, who had been in a confrontation with an unknown male. The unknown suspect left before police arrived. Sophomore soccer player Sean Kelty was also involved in the fight. "Both Kelty and Cammarata were hit," said Bob Butehorn, men's soccer coach. "I think it shows really good character that Cammarata tried to calm the people­down who were starting the fight." Cammarata sustained minor injuries but refused treatment, police said. Both Cammarata and Kelty declined to comment on the inci­dent."As far as we know, the men involved had to respond to aggressive behavior on the part of another party."d 
• SOIJTH BEND WEATHER • i~AT!ONAI.. WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Monday Tuesday Wednesday (f Thursday Friday
t_)',....\~'"'', ...,, /~/ \,r:= 

~,.r'l_rr) ucd1u {)
,,',,'...~,~ ......:. +.:::·.::=· ~-=--=­
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries SiloW Ice Sunny Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Those 'living at the house at the time of the death' make up the Phi Gamma Delta group indicted, said James Borghesani, press secretary for Martin. 
The grand jury investigation, which lasted for over 11 months, ini­tially focused on the individuals nearest to the incident, Martin said. The investigation later moved to the 
~ u 

Boston 83 64 Des Moines 64 53 Minneapolis 56
.. 
41 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Cambridge 55 36 Fargo 55 35 New York 85 69 Chicago 70 58 Hartford 84 61 Santa Fe 83 48 

• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 
Professor's statements have no effect 
AUSTIN, TX 

More than a year after law professor Lino Graglia's con­troversial remarks ignited fierce debate and brought national attention to the University, Graglia said the remarks had no lasting effect on the atmosphere on earn­pus. "I hadn't said anything that I hadn't been saying and writing for years," Graglia said. "But, the cultural com­ments could have been better put." Thursday marked the one-year anniversary of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's rally on the Main Mall, where Jackson condemned Graglia's state­ment that blacks and Hispanics couldn't academically compete with whites because their cultures do not con­demn failure. Graglia said the rally primarily drew nation­al attention to the University but didn't have any long­term impact on the political climate at the University or a national trend of states looking to end affirmative action policies."It certainly had the effect of making this topic an item of national interest," said Graglia. 
• (hm; U!\!!VERS!TY 

Police rule alcohol cause of accident 
ATHENS, OH 

The Athens Police Department ruled alcohol was involved in the accidental fall of an Ohio University stu­dent who sustained severe head injuries two weeks ago. APD Lt. Dave Williams said junior Eric Lind, was discov­ered by residents of 32 N. High St. at 10 a.m., approxi­mately seven hours after he fell from the porch, according to the news release. Lind, from Rocky River, near Cleveland, was flown by medical helicopter to the Ohio State Medical Center in Columbus from O'Bleness Memorial Hospital. Lind's blood alcohol level at thn time he was taken to O'Bleness was .094 BAC, but might have been as high as .206 at the time of the fall, according to the release. A .206 blood alcohol level is twice the legal limit. The injuries Lind sustained included a neck frac­ture, which attending neurosurgeon Gary Hea, M.D., said is consistent with a fall of approximately 10 feet, accord­ing t0 the news release. 
organizations involved in the event, such as the Fiji fraternity. 
While charges were considered against MIT, Martin and his staff decided not to prosecute the Institute.While the decision not to prosecute was closely debated, the office was fairly united in its opinion that a conviction could not be obtained, Martin said. 
While Massachusetts law does not differentiate specifically between voluntary and involuntary manslaughter, the case will be tried as an involuntary manslaughter case, Borghesani said. 
The indictments were sealed between Monday, when the grand jury returned the indictment, and yesterday to avoid the illusion that they were being released during the primary elections in an attempt to bury the news, Martin said. 
Krueger died Sept. 29 last year. 

Monday, September 21, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
~~--~--~------------------------------­


'Diversity Discourse' profiles minority advisors 
Multicultural workforce responds to global clients 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR  it is crucial that the pool of  
Associate News Fditor  omployoos they hire from pos­ 
sosses that s•ame level of  
"On(• of thw dwractnristics  diversity.  
of high-pPrforming trwms is  "We rnly upon hiring and  
that thPy ar(' not hom(~gn­ n~taining smart, capable pno­ 
twous," said Iris !;oldf(>in, a  plo," said Cold fei n. To that  
part n P r w i l h I' r if:~~­ end, Goldfnin nxplained.  
Wa t(•rhousPCo(qwrs who In ads  l'ricoWatorhousoCoopors has  
l}H• firm's human I'PSOLII'CPS  awarcl!~d a signil'icant grant to  
consulting prarticn.  tho Univnrsity to increase  
(;oldf(•in was th(• kPynotl~  divnrsity -especially racial  
s p (' 11 kI' r 11 t ''I> i v<' rsity  divnrsily.  
l>isrotii'S('." a ronfnrPncP  {;oldfoin explained thal the  
dPsigi!Pd to t•Xalltilln th!'  rotirnnwnt ol' baby boomers is  
advant<q.(ns and !JarriPrs to  an upcoming issui.1 for nmploy­ 
divPrsity programs in rollPgn  (lrs. Shn noted that thoro is a  
i!lld lllliVPI'Sity /JusillPSS  15 porcnnt dncline in tlw 25­ 
srhools.  45 ago group.  
"It is important for global  "Wn nnod pooplo, and tho  
cliPnls to fi11d advisors that  fastest growing group is  
arP as global as tlwy arP." slw  llispanics," she said. "We  
ronlinuPd. Coldfnin pointnd  havr1 to look at demograph­ 
o u t t h at w h (' 11 rom p a n ins  i<:s."  
work with firms stH:h as  Another area of concern for  
l'ricnWatPrhousn{:oop(~rs, tlwy  participants in tho conference'  
nxpnct to havn divnrsn con­ was the definition of divr1rsity.  
sult i11 g t(~am s to r<~ p r n s nn t  Goldfein related that typical­ 
thnir intnn~sts.  ly when pHople address the  
"Our clinnts want p(1opln  issue of diversity, they  
who look likn thmn and share  approach it with the mentality  
thnir valuns," said Goldfnin.  that "broader is better." Such  
Shn n~IatPd S(WPral nxamplns  an approach dPI'ines diversity  
of occasions wlwn thn diversi­ as about respect and inclu­ 
ty or lark tlwrnof in a particu­ siveness. "That can be deni­ 
lar consulting t<1am bncanw an  grating to tho people who are  
issu(~ to thn firm through cus­ so affected daily," she said.  
tonwt· rnsponsn.  "When you broaden it to the  
As a signiricant rneruiting  point whoro everyone can say  
source, Nolr<' Damn and its  -that they are minorities in  
lnvPI of divnrsity is important  somo situations, you detract  
·to l'ricnWatnrhousn<:oopt1rs.  from it," she continued.  
In light of thn dnsirn of l'irms  I' rico Wa tor h o useCoo pers  
to nxhihil a div(~rst~ workf'on:n,  fo(ds focus is more important  


in striving for diversity and that such a goal is not "neces­sarily about affirmative action," but rather about mindsets. 
"There's morn than one per­fect model -more than one way to get the job done righ(" is one such mindset. 
A distinction was drawn between international and 
U.S. diversity, with the former referring to cultural qualities and the latter focusing on the specific areas of race, gender and age. 

Goldfein related her experi­ences with employee groups such as women partners meetings and African­American partners meetings at PticeWaterhouseCoopers. Despite the inclination of many people to believe that meetings and groups like these are counterproductive to achieving cohesion in the workplace, Goldfein explained 
that her experience has shown just the opposite. 
"When the employees of an organization get together, they talk about the institution and how to make it better," she said. Instead of the "we.­they" conversation that many would expect to take place, she said that there was no animosity in the four ynars 
that  the  women  partners  
meetings  had  been  taking  
place.  






LONDONPROG 
APPLICATION MEETING FOR FALL '99 AND SPRING '00 
Tuesday, September 22, 1998 101 DeBartolo 6:30pm 

ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 






INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSORS PETER McQUILLAN PATRICK MURPHY and CLAUDIA KSELMAN 
Tuesday September 22. 1998 4:45 -5:45 P.M. I02 DeBartolo 

,,.·:>~rt''~~,.,.··r--...~~ 
Applications Available 

Lower level • LaFortune Student Center
Application Deadline: December I, 1998 

Heritage 
continued from page I 
the message: "We want to diversify the labor movement." 
Chavez-Thompson uses the labor movement and the AFL­CIO as a "jackhammer on the glass ceiling." 
And as the first Latina woman elected, she said she is making sure that the corpora­tion includes all people in the labor movement. 
Before the 1995 elections, the AFL-CIO had 19 departments, three headed by women. Now, 10 out of its 21 departments are headed by women. 
In addition, they have hired more Latinos than ever before in the AFL-CIO during that time span. 
The AFL-CIO has promoted 
voting as a means of strength­ening the voice of the disen­franchised. and from 1992 to 1996, the number of voting union workers increased by 2 million. 
"We've had the chance in the last two generations to move ahead," Chavez-Thompson said, "but millions still do not have that chance." 
Involving young people in unions is another way to work for the future. Chavez­Thompson talked about a pro­gram, Union Summer, that allows people from the ages of 18 to 30 to work as union rep­resentatives for one month. 
Seeking to learn more about organizations her parents denounced, a young woman worked in Boston during one of the first summers. When Chavez-Thompson asked what she learned in the program, the girl replied, "I've learned that people can work full time, two jobs, and still not have enough money to send their children to school." 
The AFL-CIO represents 78 unions with 13 million mem­hers. These unions, according to Chavez-Thompson, are "fighting for workers of today, but also for workers of tomor­row." 
"I want an America that does not oppress immigrants, women or gays and allows for economic justice. I want an America that does not deny a voice to a worker who wants to join a union. We need an America that cares about its workers," she said. 
"I want an America with security and hope that tomor­row will be better for all of us, so that we can all have the American Dream." 
Be kind to the Earth. Recycle 
The Observer. 

Linkage 
continued from page 1 
chance-without the GPA, we can't come [to Saint Mary's)." she said. "That's a lot of stress. I go to class. I do my homework. I'm going to make it [here.)'' 
Linkage students are made aware of the need to budget their time. 
"They always tell us stories over [at Holy Cross] -like, 'so and so partied too much and didn't make it in.' I think they do it to scare us a little, but it's still a lot of pressure," linkage student Lisa Parisi said. 
With such demands on their studies, socializing can become difficult as well. 
"There were times when I would say, 'I wish I wasn't doing this,"' Case said. "All my friends were taking classes all the time at Saint Mary's, and that was hard not being there with them." 
One of the major advantages to the program is the opportu­nity to live at Saint Mary's, and in effect, be students of both campuses.. "These women are totally integrated into col-
Monday, September 21, 1998 
lege life, and through on-cam­pus activities, become partici­pants in campus life," said Nolan. "Living on campus allows them to be Saint Mary's women." 
For the most part, linkage students say, they have no problems blending in. 
"People don''t know that I am a linkage student unless I tell them," said Yates. "I felt a lot more accepted than I thought I would. At first, I was afraid that people would say, 'You're not smart enough to be at Saint Mary's,' but no one has acted like I am lower than them at all." 
Furthermore, many students don't know about the linkage program at all, Parisi said. 
"Most people are surprised, and say, 'That's really neat.' I haven't had any problems [fit­ting in)." 
Overall, Case says, the expe­rience was a positive one for her. 
"I wasn't ready for Saint Mary's,'' she said. "I worked so much harder [in the program] than I had in my entire life. 
"I proved to myself that I could set a goal and work towards something. It was a good routine to start off col­lege," Case said. 

Monday, September 21, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

• • ANTIGUA Wife crushes husband Ci\IIHl. Hgypt 
i\ woman. Wl'ighing :~S2 pounds. sal on lwr husband's hnad until ill' suf'f'ocalnd to dnath following a dispuln oVPr his will. polic<~ offi­cials said Sunday. ].'awakih Ibrahim 1\bdel­l.atif' kill<'d lwr husband. Sayl'd i\hnwd. ­who wnighnd 121 pounds -Saturday arter discoVPring lw had ldt morn land in his will for his four rhildrnn rrorn his lirst wil(~ than !Ill' tim'<' hn had with hl'r. 1\bdPI-Latir. (J2, pushPd h<'r ~4-ynar-old husband to thn ground and with his rar<' down sat on his lwad until lw suf'f'ocatml to dnath, said tlw ollicials. spPaking on customary condition of' anonymi­ty. i\hrn<'d was marrind to both i\bdni-Latif' and his first wif'P. Islam allows nwn to have up lo four wiv<'s at LIH' sam<~ limn. l'olicn arn~stnd :\hdPI-I.atif'. who r.onrnssPd to killing lwr hus­band. 
Chechen rebels free captives 
MOSCOW 

Clwrh<'ll kidnappPrs rPlnasnd two British charity work<'rs Sunday, I'JHiing 14 months of' caplivhy ror sonH' of' tiw long<'st-lwld rorPign lwslag<'s in tlw turbul<·nt Caucasus Mountain n·gion or Hussia. Camilla Carr and .Jon .Janws h<•ad<·d lwnw to lh<~ UnilPd Kingdom aru~r a bri<•f' slopov<'r in Mosrow. TIH• two Wl're kid­napp<'d in .July If)fJ7 whill' on a charitable mission in ( :lwrlmya l'or a ()uaknr rnlid orga­nization. IIH' C<•ntnr ror l'nac!'making and Community llnvnlopnwnt. Tlwy appPan~d wPary but in good spirits as th<~Y stnppml out or 1h<' plan!' at a prival<' airport nnar Moscow, and tiH· British Fon~ign Oflkn said tlw two \VPr<' lwalthy and unharmnd. "It's so wondnr­ASSOCIATED PRESS hurricane would peel off warned that storm·surge farms-the island's biggest l'ulto IH' l'r<'n." Carr said. Britain's ambassador roofs from homes, moved flooding of 5 feet to 10 feet employers. lo l'vlosrow, Sir i\ndr<'W Wood, nwt Carr and ST. JOHN'S beds into their basements or above normal tide levels and In Guadeloupe, raging .Jam<'s at th<' airport. liP thanknd Hussian Hurricane Georges began headed to hurricane shelters 5 inches to 8 inches of rain seas swept into streets in the linanri<'r and r<'gional troubl<~-shoowr Boris lashing the easternmost in schools. Church congrega· should be expected in islands northern towns of Anse­
BPr<·wvsky ror hPiping win tlw hostages' 
islands of the Caribbean on tions on many islands cut within an 85-mile radius of Berlntnd and C:amptldHl. rPinasn. and said tlw British had paid no ran­Sunday. forcing fa,milies to short Sunday services to con" the eye ofthe hurricane. In the U.S. territory of som. huddle in basements and vert their sanctuaries into On Antigua, workers took Puerto Hico, where 3.8 mil­
businesses to pile sandbags shelters. down satellite dishes, while lion residents waited in the in front of their entrances. "We expect a full house others removed aluminum path of the storm, many peo­Crash kills duchess's mother Winds were btusting to 50 tonight," said Priscilla light poles from the parking ple rushed to stores !hr ply­
mph in Antigua by late alter· Nicholas, a volunteer at the lot of a shopping center. Hain wood, water and canned LONDON noon, with foreeasters pre­SAventh Day Adventist began at noon and was food. 
Susan Barrantns. motlwr or tho lluchnss or dieting the hurricane's full church in Cedar Grove, growing more intense by the "Hurrieanes eome every York. has b<>Pn kiiiPd in a ear crash in 130-mph f'ury by later Antigua. hour. year here, but this one looks i\rg<·ntina, dnaling tlw rornwr Sarah Frrguson Sunday evening. Tht) eye of Georges was Emergency nianagmnnnt like it's Sflrious," said .Joso 
anotlwr <Tll<'l blow just a ynar al'tnr lwr Olin­Government officials expected to pass over the officials moved through the Firpi as he boarded up win· lim<' sistPr-in-law PrincPss IJiana diPd in a throughout the region small, eastern Caribbean shelters, handing out kits of dows in his San Juan home. Paris rrash. Th<> dudwss. or "J<prgin," nx-wirn warned that Georges eould islands late Sunday before llashlights. mosquito· ('.Oils, Gov. Pedro Hossello acti­or l)Uf'('ll l·:lizaiH'th ll's sncond son. l'rinen cause the worst damage in moving on to the U.S. and water and toilet paper. vated the island's national i\ndn~w. Iward tlw 1wws early Sunday whiln decades. The storm is a cate­British Virgin Islands and Officials in Dominica shut guard and ordered oflidals on va<:ation in Italy. Slw flnw into London's gory 4 hun·ieane, compara­Puerto Rico on Monday, off water servi(~e at noon. to begin prepal'ing more than (;;ll.wirk i\irporl lal<' Sunday afternoon and ble to Hurricane Andrew, aceording to the National saying silt caused by the 300 sht,llers. Anwrican SIH'llt two hours at Sunninghill Park. tlw man­which tore through parts of Hurricane Center in Mian1i. heavy rains was overloading Airlines -the island's ch sion siH' sharns with hnr l'ormnr husband, southern Florida in 1992. The center announced a treatment plants. Emergency lifeline to the U.S. mainland bdor<' rPturning to (;atwil:k on Sunday night Hesldents of Guadeloupe hurricane watch for the workers compared the storm -announc(ld it was cancel· to continun on to i\rgPntina. Tlw duclwss's and Dominica, fearing the Dominican Republic on to 1979's Hurricane David, ing all flights into Puerto Hico 
nwtlwr sPttlnd in i\rgPntina in 197S with her Sunday evening. Earlier, it which devastated banana on Monday. sPcond husband, tlw latn llnr.tor Barrantes, an i\rgnntinP proi'Pssional polo player. 
•IsRAEL 
Ntmfti\0TftU!IQII:M 
AMEX:

Dow 
Arafat calls for Palestinian statehood
5.91 
d.HH

}ONES ASSOCIATED PRESS Albright is likely to hold separate fur months. i\n 11-day mission by Nasdaq: talks in New York with Arafat and U.S. envoy Dennis Hoss ended
+21.89 1663.77 

JERUSALEM Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Saturday without progress.
+ 17.52 

tJ 
Vasser Araf'at will call for a declara­Netanyahu. Abourdeneh said Sunday that Hoss NYSE: tion of Palestinian statehood at the Abourdeneh said direct Israeli­failed to bring the two sides dosnr on 
507.54 upcoming U.N. General Assembly, Palestinian contacts might also be any of the disputed points. 
tO.H2 regardless of whether there is possible in New York, but would not Nntanyahu's aides could not immedi­progress in talks with Israel on a elaborate. ately be reached for comm<mt Sunday
S&l' 500: 

Composite Wnst Bank troop withdrawal by then, Netanyahu is l1ying to New York evening because of the New Year's
I020.09 Volume:

7895.66 + 1.22 694,400,600 an aide said Sunday. after the Jewish New Year's which holiday. In his speech to the world body on ends Tuesday. Palestinian Planning On the table is a U.S. plan for an 
VOLUME LEADERS 

Sept. 28, i\rafat will also eall for con­Minister Nabil Shaath, a member of Israeli troop pullback from 13 percent ll!~ll·~~~ Tlfl:i:HI ·~~ ru~r~Hii 11··~1~ I'IIUl the negotiating team, is already of the West Bank and a blueprint for
vening an Arab summit, said his 

1\IHJNSWICII.: COlli' IH" +4.9 +0.0b2S 12.K7S 
l'tlii.IPMOH.H.I\1'0. MO +.tSO +I.S6S 40.25 adviser, Nabil i\bourdeneh. there. a Palestinian crackdown on Islamic l,II,LITII:Co. {i. ·11.51 -O.IH7S Jf1.562S 
I"(>MI'!\I}t:<>MI'li'IUt Cl'q -O.H I .IJ,25 30.75 The United Stales will try again to Abourdeneh said no plans had militants. 
t.r.~. l.lf".( lltll lil-. l!i\Clt UNCI I 7H.U625 
rlt.WIIl.Ut'\l.IHllll' IIIli ·0.1>.2 .o.:i750 40.1H75 broker an agreement on an Israeli been made for an Arafat-Netanyahu Araf'at has said repeatedly that he l.ll< 1~1 TU.II I.U ...o.t>;S +0.tJH75 72.H125 
1\ASJ..:t\Mrltlt't\ Cl >It I' II.\(" -5.1H .J.25 59.5 troop withdrawal in the West Bank at meeting and that a summit would will unilaterally declare a state in. the 1>1\,\'I:Y r ll. 1>1.\ -0.7.1 -O.IH75 25.4:175 
NATION.\ BA~/-.: Nil • .J.IJI ·2.75 5.{.25 talks coinciding with the General only be possible once there was a West Bank and Gaza Strip on May 4, 

Assembly this week. breakthrough. 1999, the date the interim five-year 
U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Talks have remained deadlocked period of Palestinian autonomy ends. 
r 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 21, 1998 

·­


-








ABSO UTEL STCHANCE 


TO 

SIGN UP 
FOR 

YEARBOOK PORTIIAITS 
. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2 
8-5 

ROOM 108 LAFORTUNE LOBBY 
Monday, September 21, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Clinton urged to respond to video release 

l"hc Aswuatl'd Press 
WASIIINGTON 

A kny Dnmonatie senator suggnswd Sunday that l'rnsidnnt Clinton immediately voluntn1~r to tnstify before 
Congress to hall a "politi­cal wal1~r tor­turn" that nsralatns Monday morn­ing whnn 
,\ m n r i r a n s 
view raw l'ool­


agP of tiw prnsidnnt's grand jury lPst.imony about Monica 
I.Pwinsky. 
That vidPo will show Clinton admitting "inappropriatn inti­mall• contact" and "snxual ban­tl-lr" with Ms. LPwinsky but resisting prosecutors' efforts to de l'i n n the conduct l'u r the r. Clinton offers many lngalistic rPplies and, at times, shows remorse. 
"I regret that what began as friendship carne to include this conduct," the president answer<ld when he was first asked a sex-relat~ld qup,stion by prosneutors just snven minutes into his Aug. 17 testimony. The prnsidnnt's testimony was dnscribed to The Associated Pross by lawyers familiar with it. 
Tlw moments of presidential rngret arn interspersed with lngal hairsplitting involving the tnrms "sexual relations" and "alone" and. in one exchange, the tense of a verb. 
At one point, Clinton was asked why he failed to produce to Paula Jones' lawyers a series of correspondence between himself and Kathleen Willey, the former White House volunteer who accused the president of an unwanted sexual advanee near the Oval Office in 1993. 
Clinton replied that he under­stood the subpoena to cover personal doeuments, and the Willey letters were in White I louse Iiles. If the lawyer want­ed the letters, Clinton said, they should have issued two subpoe­nas -one personal and the other ol'ficial, lawyers said. 
The White House and Congress -both faeing pel"ils in the unfolding impeachment proeeedings -braeed for the release Monday of an avalanche of new evidence that ineludes more material in which Ms. Lewinsky explicitly deseribes sex acts with Clinton, the president's videotape, pres­idential phone messages left at Ms. Lewinsky's home and the FBI test results that conclude semen on one of Ms. Lewinsky's dresses belongs to Clinton. 
Clinton made a brief appear­ance Sunday morning at a fund-raiser aboard a Potomac l~iver cruise ship and then he and Mrs. Clinton attended ser­vices at Foundry United Methodist Church, the first time since before his Aug. 17 grand jury testimony. On Monday, when the 2,800 pages of docu­ments and videotape are released, Clinton will be in New York City addressing the United Nations. 
A key senator suggested on 


Two-thirty a.m. 
Sean O'Brien '95, a first year law student writes this reflection on being 
a foreigner and a volunteer in Trujillo, Honduras: 
Wilson rows in the dark, looking much more comfortable than I. His strokes are efficient with the deliberateness of an animal. The cayuco, our wooden canoe made from a hollowed out birch log, is unsteady and I sit too high above the water. I feel the boat tip too tar to one side and I panic and shift my weight. My unease ripples the reflection of the moon in the warm Caribbean water. 
Wet with moonlight. Perhaps the bay looked like this in 1504, when Columbus laid his zealous eyes on these shores. Or when pirates like Captain Morgan or the American philanderer William Walker lay in wait just outside of cannon range of Fort Santa Barbara, a mile up the coast. Foreigners have always been attracted to the beauty of Trujillo, Honduras. 
He rows us a few hundred yards into the bay, directly out from where one of the mountain streams empties into the bay. Here, the big fish wait for the little fish. We will wait for the big fish. 
Wilson is my student. Earlier in the day, l taught him to count to twenty in English. But novy.it i~3Q..§Jl1 .. early morning, and Wilson is teaching me to fish. 
He hands me a plastic line, weighted on one end with a hand-fash­ioned metal hook and a smooth, elongated stone. The extra line is wrapped around a thick stick. The line is let out slowly, hand over hand. Wilson demonstrates the technique. 
I explain to him about fishing with rods, and that big rods are needed for big fish. He laughs. 
With two "plops" each of us have a line in the water. He lifts and jerks his line with a playful rhythm I struggle to imitate. He smiles his father's smile and watches me in amusement. 

No bites. Wilson is silent as he rows us further out. At thirteen, action still comes easier than awkward words. The trees on shore are indistinguishable and from the rise and fall of the sea, I know we are in open water. We drop 

the Sunday talk shows that Clinton immediately volunteer to testify to the House Judiciary Committee and answer all questions fully to spare the country further embarrass­ment. 
"I believe the president would be well served to explain exaet­ly what he did, exactly what he was thinking, do it to the Judiciary Committee and let's vote and let's move on one way or the other," said Sen. John Kerry a Massachusetts Democrat and Clinton ally. 
"The nation is being ill served by this political water torture that is taking place in a highly caleulated, highly partisan way," Kerry told NBC regarding Congress' selected release of evidence. 
Kerry's call for voluntary Clinton testimony was embraced by several col­leagues, including Republiean Sen. John 
ly stimulated her. 
''I'm almost willing to say, 'Let's stipulate that President Clinton touched Monica Lewinsky where he shouldn't have,"' Hop. Hobert Wexler, D­Fla., said on NBC. 
Two sources familiar with the material Starr turned over to Congress told The Associated Press it includes an FBI inter­view report of an Arkansas woman. 55, whom Jones' lawyers sought to question about possible sexual miscon­duct by the prnsident two decades ago. 
The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the FBI report is "inconclusive" about whether anything improper happened, declining to be more specilie. Thn report is not among the materials scheduled for release Monday. 
In an event unparalleled in history, the unfiltered footage of the presi­

Ashcroft, a pres-dent's grand idential aspirant jury testimony
'I

REGRET THAT WHAT
and harsh will be aired Clinton critic, BEGAN AS A FRIENDSHIP by cable news and House 
CAME TO INCLUDE THIS CON-e h a n n e I s 
Judiciary simultaneous 
C o m m i t t e e DUCT.' with its members rnlease, Barney Frank, expected 
0-Mass., and BILL CLINTON shortly after Lindsey the breakfast Graham, R-S.C. hour Monday. Uneasy about defending some To prepare viewers, CNN of Clinton's legalistic answers, aired special statements Democrats are discussing Sunday warning that the video, whether to eoncede Clinton which it plans to run in its committed perjury and accept entirety, contains "both lan­Ms. Lewinsky's version of their guage and descriptions" that sexual eneounters even though "may be offensive to some Clinton disputes her allegations viewers and unsuitable to chi!­that he touched her and sexual-dren." 
our lines again, hand over hand. I wait tor the stone weight to hit bottom. The bay is deep. Columbus realized this when he sailed through this bay and landed on the mainland. He named the "new" land Honduras, or "deep water." This bay is one of the four deepest in the world. A conglomerate of foreign investors wants to exploit its depth and build the world's largest oil refinery in these pristine 
waters.  The stone hits bottom.  I pull in a few lengths of line and it is ready.  Time  
to wait.  
Wilson gets a bite.  He looks like a blind man smiling and staring empty  

into the night. He blocks everything out, except the way the line feels in his hand. Wilson is playing with the fish. 
Another bite. With a subtle jerk, Wilson sets the hook in the fish's mouth, 60 teet below. I watch in amazement as he pulls in the line, hand over hand. The silver fish breaches the surface of the water. It is nearly two feet long, but thin and shiny like a metal pipe. Barracuda. 
I still wait with my line. Lift and jerk. Lift and jerk. Nothing. 
The moon begins to set, and the stars ease their way back into the night. Soon the moon falls behind the mountains and the Milky Way is in full bloom. Moonlight is fully replaced by starlight. 
After three more fish, Wilson decides he has had enough and he rests in the bow of the cayuco. His small brown eyes shine as his gaze slowly follows the Milky Way arched across the sky and back towards the coast, where it snags on an intrusive red light that flashes out of place. It is a tower, a radar system unnat­urally perched on the summit of Mount Calentura. President Reagan built the system for Ollie North and his covert troops when they trained here in the late eighties. The radar helped the American-backed Contras track the movements of the Sandanistas in nearby Nicaragua, and put a freeze on any Honduran revolu­tionary activities. 
Wilson catches a chill. He hands me the wooden oar and I row back to shore. It takes me two hours. 
Ten months later it is September and I walk from the Hesburgh library to my apartment in Fischer Graduate Residences. The Midwestern moon is full, doing its best to beat out the light pollution from Chicago, ninety miles away. On this rare night, it succeeds. As I approach my apartment, the moonlight reveals a well-manicured Notre Dame lawn. The edging is straight and clean. 
At the edge of the patio, a raccoon stops its scavenging and shows me its face. Moons reflect in its eyes and its paws hold some treasure with a nervous twitch. I wait, motionless, to let it know that I am not a threat: the refrigerator inside is tully stocked. I am comforted by its wildness. 
In my bedroom, I undress and crawl into bed. I glance at the clock. 2:30a.m. Early morning. Wilson is fishing. 
Information about La Finca del Nino and sixty other volunteer programs will be available at the Post­Graduate Service Fair, Wednesday, September 23, 6:30-9:00 at Stepan Center. Stop by to talk with Sean. 

---------~~~-­

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 21, 1998 
• SWEDEN
New-Miss America 

Social Democrats retain power 
pledges diabetes aid 

The Associated Press economic issues, with the from the 45 percent the 
Associared Press carefully monitor her blood 
sugar levels. 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. Fourteen months ago, Diabetes has a new face: Miss Johnson got an insulin pump, a America's. small instrument that looks like 
Hours after being crowned a telephone pager. It delivers Miss America 1999, Nicole insulin through a needle and Johnson. who suffers from regulates the flow, giving her juvenile diabetes and wears an as much as she needs. insulin pump 24 hours a day, The device has freed her promised Sunday to use her from the restrictions and injec­newfound fame to spotlight the tions, she said. disease. She wore it during all phases 
"It makes me the perfect of the pageant except the swim­
spokesperson for that issue," suit competition. said the aspiring TV news One thing she won't be wear­anchor from Roanoke, Va. ing is the crown. 
The 24-year-old native of Pageant officials are de­Seminole, Fla., is a graduate of emphasizing the royal aspects the University of South Florida of Miss America in hopes of and Regent University in casting her as a relevant, Virginia Beach, Va., who has down-to-earth role model. and worked for Johnson the Christian declined to Broadcasting put the crown Network. 'I'VE BEEN TAUGHT, SINCE on during a Seeking news confer­
I WAS A LITTLE GIRL, TO
scholarship ence Sunday, 
money, she NEVER GIVE UP.' offering competed instead to hold twice in the it. Miss Florida NICOLE JOHNSON Her diabetes 
Pageant MISS AMERICA 1999 didn't inter­before mov­fere with tra­ing to dition. After Virginia to getting 2 1/2 attend graduate school and hours sleep, she frolicked in the competing in that state's surf for photographers, a tradi­pageant three times, finally tion for all new Miss Americas. winning this year. And it won't get in her way as 
She walked off with the Miss Miss America, she said. America crown and a $40,000 "I've always been a go-get­scholarship on Saturday after ter," she said. performing "That's Life," a Asked for her opinion on the 
song about triumph over adver­White House sex scandal, sity. Johnson called on President It's a topic she knows plenty Clinton to resign for the good of about. the country. 
''I've been taught, since I was "I personally think it would a little girl, to never give up," be better for him to resign," she she said. said. "That's my personal opin­
She was diagnosed with juve­ion because I think it is so sad. nile diabetes, an uncommon He is the number one role form of the disease. at the age model in the world, basically. 
of 19. "We're dealing with far more 
For four years, she had to eat than his personal life. It is meals at the same time each affecting children, it is affecting day, take insulin injections and families." 
• CORRECTION 
In Friday's issue of The Observer, an article incorrectly listed the date for the "Crisis in Russia" roundtable discussion. The article should have stated that the discussion will take place on Monday, Sept. 28, at 4:15 p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The Obserl!er regrets the error 
Get a higher score. Then change the world. 
Setting your sights high? Before making your mark, you'll need to ace your tests. No one can prepare you better than Kaplan. With 60 years of proven success getting students into the schools of their choice, we're the #1 name in test prep. Classes are filling up fast, so call today. 
CALL 1·800 
KAP·TEST •:1:1iUI• 
www.kaplan.com 
World Leader in Test Prep 

non-socialists arguing that party got in 1994, the ex­STOCKHOLM Sweden's taxes, currently the Communist Left Party nearlyThe political party that world's highest, stifle job­doubled its total with 12 
built, then cut Sweden's wel­creation and of
percent

fare state will have a chance doom the 
the vote on 
to make good on its promise to
country promises of 
to restore the country's social marginality. restoring
'WE RULE ON!"
services. For their 
the welfare 
The Social Democrats came part, the state and through Sunday's national Social 
reducing the 
elections with their worst Democrats 
PRIME MINISTER work week.
performance ever, winning said Sweden 
GOERAN PERSSON O t h e r s
just 36.6 percent of the vote, was inching may have but conservative parties were 
its way back gravitated to 
unable to budge them from to a strong the other power. economy after suffering from end of the political spec­The four non-socialist par­a crushing debt in the early trum.The conservative ties received a total of 169 part of the decade. Christian Democrats nearly seats in the 349-seat Riksdag When they regained power tripled their support with a 
parliament -more than the in 1994, the Social platform emphasizingSocial Democrats'131 seats Democrats embarked on an improved medical and but short of a majority. austerity program, cutting elderly care. 
The Social Democrats will Sweden's cherished cradle­
The Social Democrats have likely be supported by two to-grave social services to promised they can rebuild other parties, the ex­extract the country from the welfare state.But they
Communist Left Party and the enormous debt. say it will never be what it Greens.Together, the three 
The measures restored bal­was in the 1960s, when the 
parties would have 190 seats. ance to public finances, rest of the world looked But it's not a combination including a predicted small admiringly at a country with 
that makes the Social budget surplus this year. They full employment and cheapDemocrats comfortable. They also reduced unemployment, medical care. say the other two parties' although it is still considered How the Social Democrats 
policies are unrealistic.And high at 7.3 percent. will rebuild the welfare the Left and the Greens But the measures also left state is unclear. 
adamantly oppose Sweden's Swedes watching medical Prime Minister Goeran possible participation in the and other services decline Persson proclaimed to a European Union's single-cur­even as they continued to pay party fete that "We rule 
rency system, which the the world's highest taxes. on!" He also canceled a Social Democrats haV€1 sup­The austerity clearly cost planned trip today to New ported. the Social Democrats votes. York so he could analyzeThe campaign centered on While their support declined the election results. 
Got something to say? 
Be classy. 
The Observer classified ads. 

As America's leading drug store chain, Walgreens has a powerful vision of the future-3000 stores by the year 2000. We plan to accomplish this dream by using both the most advanced technology in the industry, and the skills of top-notch college grads like you. 
We currently have opportunities for intelligent, ambitious college graduates who arc ready to work in a diverse lechnical environment at our corporate headquarters in Deerfield, JL 
PROGRAMMERS & 

PROGRAMMER ANALYSTS 
Qualifications include a BS in Computer Science or related curriculum, strong analytical and communica­tion skills and a combination of education and practical experience in one or more of the following areas: C/ C++/L':\'IX • RDBMS • AS/400 with COBOL or SY:\01\ • COBOUCICS or DBZ • Client/Server applications. GCI development (SQL/Windows preferred). knowledge of PC Client/Server Architecture and exposure to ORACLE or other relational databases would be a plus. 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROFESSIONALS 
Qualifications include a BS in Telecommunications or equivalent or related discipline, and experience in LA':'./WA:\', TCP/IP, Cisco routers, troubleshooting and datascopes. 
Take your knou·ledge to Walgreens and enjoy a successful career. Walgreens promotes and supports a drug-free workplace. Equal Opportunity Employer 

-----~---~--­
-c::: 
Monday, September 21, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
U.S., Japan 'keep heat on' N. Korea's nukes 
The Associated l'rc" ally would adhnre to the deal guarding the always tense and concerns about an place the day before thn U.N. and put aside its anger over demilitarized zone between underground facility U.S. General Assembly begins two NI\W YOHK an Aug. 31 missile test by the North and South Korea. intelligence suspects could be weeks of sessions. 
T 111~ ll nit nd S l a l j~ s and North Koreans.The roeket. in Japan has conducted pre­hiding nuclear weapons Komura and De1'11nse .Japan must "keep tlw lwat a failed attempt to launeh a liminary studies, some with development. Minister Fukushiro Nukaga on" North Kol'!HL to abide by salnllite. flew over .Iapan this country, on ways to The United States also has are new, coming in with its promise 
with no warning. defend against missiles.The fallen behind in sending Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi, to give up Tlw agreement is "the b11st United States is developing heavy fuel oil to North Korea who will hold his first talks n u -1: I e a r mnthod for preventing several theater missile until the reactors ean be with President Clinton on wPapons nuclear dnvnlopmnnl by defense systems as well, built. Last week, the House Tuesday.Those talks will dPvPiopment North Korna." said Japanese although voted to focus on .Iapan's faltering in nX!'hangn Foreign Minister Masahiko American sci-block $35 eeonomy, with the president for frnP Komura."On this score, .Japan entists million to urging banking and othor
'NoONE SHOULD

t•nPrgy sup­and t lw Unit11 d Statn s s n e haven't been finance the reforms to holp I'IW!Hse tho 
p I i tl s , nyn-lo-nye." able to over­DOUBT OUR COMMIT-fuel, partly in Asian financial erisis whoso Snc.n•tary of Albright In light of North Korea's como tochno­MENT TO DEFEND OUR INTER-protest over efl'octs are spreading world­S l a I n ballistic missile d1welopnwnt, logical hur­the nuclear wide. 
ESTS AND WORK TOGETHER

~-ladi'IPilll' Albright says. the United Stales and Japan dles to knock rumors and Obuchi said earlier in "N tl itlw r o(' our nations is agreed Sunday to conduct a fast-moving FOR PEACE AND STABILITY IN Pyongyang's Tokyo that Japan already had undPr any illusions about tlw joint rnsnarch on a missile target out of defiant mis­taknn every m11asure to pull
ASIA.'

governnwnt of Pyongyang or defense system that could th11 sky. sile tests. itself out of rec11ssion short of tl11• potential thnlat it JWSI'S protr.ct tlw island nation from The U.S. WILLIAM COHN Albright a 'wartime economy' of mas­to JHHU'I' and stability in thn attack. and Japanese said U.S. and sive military spending rPgion," i\lbrigh l said Sunday "No one should doubt our govornmonts also called on .Japanese leaders cannot increases. lie added that he aflPr shn and J)pfnnsn commitmnnt to defend our North Korea to halt all mis­afford to see the nucltHLI' would not resort to such a Snt·rntury William Cohen nwl intntests and to work togeth­sile development and stop freeze fail. "We must keep the move. with thPir .Japannsn countnr­er for peace and stability in exporting the dangerous h11at on Pyongyang by meet­Albright said the adminis­part.s. Asia," Cohen said at a news materials and technology to ing our commitments ... even tration was pleas11d by recent 
Although .Japan has dPiaynd conference. "And this is the other countries. as we press North Korea's Japanese legislation to elose its $1 billion contribution lo best way to proteet both the On the nuelear freeze deal, leaders to meet theirs," she or fix debt-ridden banks but build two light-water rPactors United StatPs and Japan." the $4.6 billion agreement to said. was looking for morn actions as pari or thl' I1)94 nueiPar The United States has build light water reactors is The annual U.S.-Japan and real results. fl'fli'Zt• pact. llw Tokyo gov­l 00,000 troops in North Asia, in danger of collapsn because meeting of top defense and "Implementation is impor­l'l'lllllPnL suggllStl'd it evPnlu-about one-third of them of North Korean missile tests foreign !J.l'f'airs offieials took tant." she said. 
NASA to aid struggling Russians 
The Associ;ucd Press scheduled to start construction ware vital to the spac1~ station. 
in orbit in November, by seeing Hothnnberg told the Post that WASIIINGTON to it that Russian space work­NASi\ wants to pay up to $150 NASA will ask Congress and ers get paid. million a year for Hussian the White llouse for approval The report says key adminis­space equipment over the next to buy additional goods and tration and congressional ofli­four ynars, a total that would serviees from the Russian cials eoncur that it would be cover about half of Hussians' Space Agency worth as much cheaper in the long run to help anticipated cost for thn 
as $660 million over the next shore up the financially international space station. four years as a way to salvage strapped Russian space pro­"We can't be sure they'll plans to build an international gram than to have the Russians come up with the other half spaee station with the drop out of the spaee station though," he told the Post. "If Hussians. The Washington Post project for lack of money. they don't we need to bn pm­reported. The Post quoted Joseph pared." lie added: "In effnct, 
The paper said in Monday's Rothenberg, chief of NASA's we're buying $150 million per 
editions that the idea is to pre­oJTice of space flight, as saying year worth of insurancn." 
vent further costly dealys in the NASA has notified Congress NASi\ has already paid 
U.S.-Ied space station, which is and the White House budget Hussia more than $400 million 
office that it wants to use exist­for goods and serviens. Thn ing funds to contraet for $60 adminstration rationale for million worth of future Russian inviting the Russians to space vehicles by the end of become partners in the spaee this month and an additional station was not only to acquire $40 million by the end of the valuable expertise and hard­year. ware, but also to promote 
The paper said the money is nuelear nonproliferation by intended to provide an emer­helping provide jobs for gency infusion of funds to keep Russian rocket scientists who running Russian assembly lines might otherwise bn tempted to needed to provide Russian sell their skills to threatnning space vehicles and other hard-countries. 
Every Wednesday 
Represent Notre Dame as a High School Ambassador 
If you are interes ted in representing Notre Dame at your high school over fall break, you will need to attend an information session on Tuesday, September 22 or Wednesday, September 23 at 7:30pm in 144 DeBartolo. 
Questions: E-mail Susan at joyce.2@nd.edu 
Thank you!
K u R T SALMON 
ASSOCIATES 

The Admissions Office 



;u ::;:::a X 

-------~ -.-----~~-··-----­
VIEWPOINT 
pagelO ------------------------------------------------
---------------------Monday, September 2I, I998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S 0FFIQ.: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS M\NAGER Brian Reinrhalcr Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR He:nher MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR.. . .......... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAG£R ..............Kerry Mcl'arrlin VIEWI'OINT EDITOR .. .......... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER .............. Brett H uelat SPORTS ElliTOR .... ............. Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS.......................... Sarah Dylag CoNTROLLER... ...........................•.Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifr:r Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... I'ere Cilella PHOTO EDITOR . .. ................. Kevin Dalum 
The(_)b!>crvcJ is rhl• indC'pendem newllp.tpc:r publi!.hed by the students of the Univcrsiry of Notre Dariu: du l:ic and $.tint MJry':. College. It doc~ nm llt."CC~\.Irily reflect th~: policies of the adminislratinn of either institution. The news is reported JS accura(dy and ubjectivdy a!> possible. Unsigned editorials TCflrcscnt the opinion of rhe majority of the Ediror·in·Chicf. Managing Editor, A~!>isram Managing Editor and depanmcm t.-ditors. Commcnrarics,lencrs and · columns present the views of rhc author.~. and not neCcM;;trily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available fO all member!> of the Nmrc Damc/Saim Mary'!> community and wall readers. The rrcc expression ofvarying opinions through !t.·ucr!'> is t.·ncouragcd. 
Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business OH!ce 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Assi!>Canr ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 New-:./ Photo 631-5323 Svsrems 6.'11-8839 Sports 631-4543 F'ax 631-6927 Scene//Sainr Maryrs 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/Generallnforrnarion 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 


• GRAIN OF WHEAT 

Live From Death Row 
The sign says, "X-How Do Ilave Visits." 
I view this sign just outside the guard shack on my way into the Indiana State Prison. The guard stops me, 
"Ma'am, where are you going?" "I am going to death row." "Oh, did you see my sign?" "Yes, I saw your sign." "You didn't laugh at it." "Laugh? Because of the bad grammar?" "Yes." 
I shake my head. No.I am more dis­
Maureen 
turbed by the fact that no one in 
the prison
Kramlich 
bureaucracy----=======:.____ can say the 
word "death." I called the prison earlier in the day after I had heard that the prison was on "lock-down"-vis­its were canceled because a wire cutter was missing from the tool room. Before I made the forty-five minute drive out to the prison t9 visit a friend, I wanted to make sure that I would be able to see him: 
"I know that the prison is on lock-down but I would 
like to visit someone on death row." "X-Bow is not on lock-down." "Okay, so if I come out to visit someone on death 
row, will I be able to do so?" "Yes. X-How has visits." Compared to the fact that none of the guards can 
say "death-row," the incorrect grammar on the sign is a small thing. 
I continue on my way down a flower-lined walkway into the prison. The unintentionally retro-decorated (wood paneling and black-and-white checkered floor) lobby is filled with guards, who are talking and jok­ing with one another. After their eo-worker oflicers pass through the metal detector for standard "pat­downs," the guards on duty at the front desk massage 

I' the backs of their co-workers. I am ignored. So I speak up, "Excuse me. I am here to see someone on death row." One of the guards turns to me and asks, "His D.O.C. IDepartment of Correction] number?" I rattle off the number which I now have memorized. After typing in the number. the guard id1mtilies my fri1md. "Mr. Williams." I said. "Yes, Mr. Williams." 
"You will be visit number one. Have a seat." 

The wait is long and I am given a chance to reflect on the events which lead me here: to visiting a death row prisoner who I don't hesitate to call a friend. I met him this past March through Joe Ross, C.S.C. who is a volunteer chaplain at the prison. I contacted Joe Ross after another priest suggested that I become a pen pal to someone on death row. I did not spend much time rel1ecting on whether or not to do this. In fact, I decided to do it immediately after it was sug­gested to me. I really believe that I was acting on faith from the start and the challenges that people around me were raising didn't even phase me. My friends were filled with all sorts of admonitions and questions: 
What did he do? 
What about the victims? 
What if he falls in love with you? 
I can't believe you gave him your home address. 
Don't give him your picture. 

Don't you think you should work on perfecting your own soul before you try to save someone else's? 
To be honest, I didn't bother myself with worrying about any of these things. I never concerned myself with the crime, though I had easy access to lind out about it on the almost exhaustive legal database, LEXIS-NEXIS. I thought: Thank God no one is able to look up my worst sin on LEXIS-NEXIS. Why should I look up his? 
I did not enter the relationship with the intention to "save his soul." I entered it for the sake of friendship and a friendship has certainly developed. We corre­sponded every week for a month-and-a-half before we met in person. I knew from the beginning--from his first letter -that he and I would get along. IIe is very philosophical and very spiritual. IIe writes poet­ry and articles about justice and virtue. The friend­ship has developed with case. 
The wanderings of my mind cease when my num­ber is called. I walk up to the desk where I go through a metal detector and am thoroughly frisked by a female guard. I am escorted through a passage­way and a door locks behind me. And then another passageway. Another door locks. And one more. Now I stand before the death row so-called visiting room, a large cage. This is nothing Hke the eerie scene from the movie "Dead Man Walking" when Sr. llelen !irst goes to the prison. My friend is sitting inside the visit­ing room at a table waiting for me. I smile at him. He is not the threatening looking inmate whose mug­shot you sec in the newspaper. He is a good looking man and he has a warm smile. I step into· a smaller cage before I enter the visiting room and I hug him once I enter. And tlwn he and I sit down. at a table. 
First, we joke around. I say to him: 
"I heard someone stole a wire cutter from the tool room. I was thinking that maybe it was you and you were going to escape and show up at my front door." 
"You think I'd do that?" 
"Yes." 

"No. I'd call you !irst." 
We laugh. 

But for small diversions to discuss prison life and 
the death penalty, our conversations are of the sort that any two friends might have. 
"Did you watch the game?'' 
"How's school going?" 
"What movies have you seen lately?" 
"What do you think about Clinton?" 
Given the mood and the tone of the conversation, you would think that he and I were anywhere but a prison. We could be in coffee shop. I enjoy the con­versation and his company. We spend over two hours visiting. 
And then, a guard yells out, "Visit over." 
I hug my friend good-bye and then am escorted out of the prison by a female guard. She takes me to the lobby and says, "Have a nice day." Once I am in the lobby another guard turns to me and says, "lie is nice, isn't he?" 
"Yes, he is." I stop to shake her hand and introduce myself to her. I am walking out now and I am think­ing: 
"He is nice. Are they going to kill him?" 
I continue out of the prison down thn flower-lined path. I turn back to look at the sign posted outside the guard shack. The sign has been re-written to cor­rect the grammar but it still says "X-Ilow." 
Maureen Kramlich is. a "Double Domer": a member ofthe University ofNotre Dame (.'/ass of 19')7 and the Notre Dame Law School Class of2000. Contrary to popular belief she had nothing to do with the plane carrying the denoundement ofS'enator Bradley which flew over the stadium during the Michigan game. fler e-mail address is maureen.kramlich.J@nd.edu and website address is www. nd.edu.l-mkramlic. 
The opinions expr(!ssed in this column are those of the author and not neccessarily Ihose ofThe Observer. 
• DooNESBURY 
A5A 51-f&U-51-fCCKe/?CAPITAL. 
CCM7NU&97V t:1eesT7HI3 UN5AVCleY tVII?&NC&11641/t/ST 
A a::c£/7"FUL.AN/? PR&I?A­
7lJRY ~1/l&NT.,. 
~ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
,.SVM&OFHISMOST Va?U. 

JOIN tE 7lJNIGHT
Cl?fTICS, Ul<b /?£P. /?AN 9UI<­

.·• FORANA/XGP&­
70NANI?R&P. H&teN OleNO 

CI.tlL., "lH& N/3t(/
lUeTH, li4V& BeeN CAUGHTIN 

APUL.7CR/3R5."
7H&5lJXUAL-UN~ 
f 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The president can 
remember Monica delivering pizza, but not oral sex?' -George Will, to Clinton Attorney David Kendall 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 21, 1998 -----------------
-------------------------page II 
• CAPPV'S COLUMN 
My Favorite Neckties 
Heeuntly, I needod to choose a tie for one of my infrequent social outings. There are dozens of ties in my rlosP.t-all right, a few might be too narrow f'or tho 90's, a f'ew might be too wide, and I don't usually wear paisley anymore-but there were still a half down I could wear without embarrass­ing my family fashion police (aka daughters Megan 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and
Marnie). 
Being a 
tradition­
alist, I 
narrowed 
the choice 
down to 
Cappy 
Gagnon 
the same 
pair whieh ----========-----has domi­
nated my 
sartorial frontage since the Carter administration: 
The Lone Rangllr tie and thA blue tio with the ND 
monograms. This time, "The Masked Man" won 
out over school spirit. 
Whiln I was taking my usual five passes at get­
ting the fat end longer than the skinny end, I 
thought about Clayton Moore and Chuck Lennon. 
Thfl Long Ranger was the favorite TV show of my 
youth. Thr show was on throughout the 50's. It 
was remarkable for its day. The Long Hanger 
(Clayton Moorp,) never even wounded anyone, pt·e­
ferring to shoot the weapon out of tho hand of the 
miscreant. Tonto, the secondary lead, was a full­
blooded Mohawk Indian. who was accorded full 
rnspect and dignity by his Kemo Sabbe. The Lone 
Hanger never accepted reward money for his cap­
tures. prefering to give it to the downtrodden. The 
Long Hanger always helped underdogs, whether 
thoy be the crusading newspaper owner; the wid­
owed rancher; the older town marshal; or the new 
sehoolmarm. The stories look a mite preachy 
today, but they always included a wholesome mes­
sage about good and evil and right and wrong. 
I ate a lot of Cheerios and hummed a lot of' the 
William Tell Overture because of my cowboy hero. 
Clayton Moore has not left the character of The 
Lone Hanger for 50 years. lie still entertains chil­
dren (some of them born in 1944) porforming at 
public appearances. During a prior existence, I 
livPd in Los Angeles and was able to speak to The 
Lone Hangor on three occasions. His voice is still 
unmistakeably that of the daring and resourceful 
masked rider. 
Moorn told me that when ho was a boy he 
drParnnd of be'coming nither a cowboy or a police 
officer. He said the Lone Hanger character gave 
him the chance to be both. 
Wlwn !look at my Notrn DanHJ tin, I think of 
Chuck Lennon, the Executive Director of the Notre 
Dame Alumni Association (license plate-ND 1). 
Chuek and I have been l'rionds for three decad<~s. 
To many Notre Damn alumni, Chuck is Mr. Notre 
Dame. With a couple of bionic parts for hearing 
and log support, Chuck keeps up the same pace for 
family, sc:hool. and communi.ty ;1s when he was an 
undergraduate baseball star. 
Chuek is the model for what an Alumni Director 
should bo. 
Chuck is one of those guys who has never gone 
to work, merely been paid for doing what he 
onjoys. Sort or like The Lone Ranger. 
Clayton Moore and Chuck Lennon art~ two of my 
hNoes. Not just for doing wonderful work which 
has b1mefited and entertained millions of people. 
but for having upbeat lives and great families and 
not regretting for a moment the vocational path of 
their lives. 
In my fantasy, I would either by The Lone 
Hanger, shooting the sixgun out of the hand of 
Butch Cavendish, or Chuek Lennon's valet, travel­
ing tho globe, hanging out with Notre Dame alum­
ni. 
The best advice I ean give to current students is lind a career which provides the doublo joy of doing good work and being comfortable in the doing. And, get a good 401K pla.n. 
Cappy Gagnon, a 1966 alumnus, is in charge of 
crowd ;rzanagement for the football stadium and 
coordinates student security employees in the 
campus security department. He can be.e·mailed 
at russ(>[I. t.gagnon.2@nd. edu. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those of 
the author, and not neccessarily those of The 
Obserz1er. 
• DIGGING DEEPER 

The Third Millenium Draws Near 
The Holy Father's recent apostolic letter Tertia Millennia Adveniente (As the Third Millennium Draws Near) bears a message of joy and hope. Today, as so many Americans continue to shun greatness, to dis­tance themselves from noble ideals, as we decline from expecting great things from our leaders, the Pope reminds us that we have reason to raise our sights. Mediocrity is not an option for a Christian, nei­ther is indifference. For we have been called to truly grnat and glorious things. 
The 
approach of 
the third 
millennium,
Aaron 
rather than placing greatP.r dis­tance
Kheriaty 
between us -----========----and Christ,
actually draws humanity near to him. As St. Paul told the Homans, "For salvation is noarer to us now than whnn wn first believed. (13:11)" The Pope's letter calls lukewarm and tired Christians to become con­temporaries of Christ, to rediscover the zeal of apos­tolic times. Humanity, currently in search of a "New Age" must rnturn to Christ, who is the "fulfillment of the yearning of all the world's religions and, as such, he is their sole and definitive completion." As we search for meaning in a troubled world, we need look no further than to .Jesus, to his Eucharistic presence among us. As Vatican II states in Gaudium et Spes Christ fully reveals man to man himself and makes his supreme calling clear." Christ is not simply anoth­
er wise sage like 
Confucius, or a 
prophet like
C
hrist's vicar 
Mohammed. His 
reminds us that claims are such 
than in the last
the Christian religion 
analysis, he can
is ultimately, and only be one of three things: he is
above all, a religion of 
either a lunatic, a
glory. liar, or the Lord. 
Modernity's 
unending search for the "historical .Jesus," is futile. To find the histori­cal .Jesus ("will the 'historical .Jesus' please step for­ward?") one needs to look no further than the Gospels, which, although documents of faith, are no less reliable as historical testimonies, if we consider their reference as a whole. The Holy Father strikingly proclaims the historicity of Christianity in this way: "Time is indeed fulfilled by the very fact that God in the Incarnation, came down into human history." Eternity entered time: what "fulfillment, could possi­bly be greater than this?" The Gospels are therefore not a dead letter; Jesus Christ is alive and is the same yesterday, today and forever. 
In Christ. religion is no longer a "blind search for God, but the response offaith to God who reveals himself ... Here we touch upon the essential point by which Christianity differs from all the other religions, by which man's search for God has been expressed from earliest times. Christianity has its starting point in the Incarnation of the Word. Here it is not simply a case of man seeking God. but of God who comes in person to speak to man of himsef and to show him the path by which [God] may be reached." Why does God do this? Why does he seek out man? Because man hides from Him. Man turns away from Him. God seeks man out in order that man's evil may be overcome. 
In the Republic, Plato asked what is likely to be the fate of the completely just man, should he ever be found in the world. lie concludes that rightousness is only complete if. at the same time, it appears to oth­ers to be unrightousness. For then the rightous man does not consider the opinion of others, but loves jus­tice for its own sake. So according to Plato, the truly and fully just man "will be scourged. racked, fettered, will have his eyes burnt out, and at last, after all manner of suffering, will be crucified." Written four hundred years before the appearance of our Lord, this passage is bound to strike a deep chord in the Christian follower. Joseph Cardinal Hatzinger com­ments: "The fact that when the perfectly just man appeared he was crucified, delivered up by justice to death, tells us pitilessly who man is: thou art such, man, that thou canst not bear the just man -that he who simply loves becomes a fool, a scourged criminal, an outcast. Thou art such because, unjust thyself, thou dost always need the unjustice of the next man in order to feel excused, and thus canst not tolerate the just man who seems to rob thee of this excuse. Such art thou." This is why God came to meet man: the truth of man is his lack of truth. 

But the cross does not only reveal man, it reveals God. Hatzinger continues, "God is such that he identi­fies himself man right down into this abyss and that he judges him by saving him. In the abyss of human denial is revealed the still more inoxhaustible abyss of' the divine love. It is this total identification of' God with man, by God's own intiativ1~. that calls for the total identification of man with God, by man's own freedom." This is our noble calling; this is the divine adventure of the Christian. This is what allows the 

Christian to raise his sights. The Pope reminds us that "the Holy Spirit, whom the Father has sent in the name of the Son, enables man to share in the inmost life of God. He also enables man to be a son. in the likeness ofChrist, and an heir of all that belongs to the Son." 
This is why, as the Third Millenium draws near, Christ's vicar reminds us that the Christian religion is ultimately, and above all, a religion ofglory. 
Aaron Kheriaty is a Senior philosophy pre-med major. He is looking forward to the third millennium. You can reach him at aaron.d.klwriaty.J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neccessarilytlzose ofThe Observer. 
Apology to Professor Baxter and Department of Theology 
In my Letter to the Editor of Thursday, 17 September, concerning Professor Miehanl Baxter, I mistakenly referred to some information that is confi­dential, namely, comparative faculty rankings based on the results of TCE's. It is not the practice of the Department to engage in public comparisons of instructors based upon such information, and I would like to apologize to Professor Baxter and to the Department of Theology for having departed from this practice. 
Kern R. Trembath Assistall! Chairman Department ofTheology Friday, September 18, 1998 
(

,....... ~*.1m.~ 
,;· 
:-:::::m:::.=:#: 

page12-----------------------------------------------------------------------------Monday, September 21, 1998 
•

Love: The 'One True Thing' lll Life 
"One True Thing" 
Director: Carl Franklin Starring: Meryl Streep, Renee Zellweger, William Hurt and Tom Everett Scott 

(Out offive shamrocks) 
By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE Scene Movie Critic 
Do your parents know you love them? Or do you always forget to tell them how much you really do love them? 
Many students merely assume their parents know these feelings and there­fore think they do not need to tell them. Unfortunately, that is a major mistake on their part. 
We must be honest and tell our par­ents that we love them, and that we just often neglect to vocalize that love. Vocalizing love appears as a major hur­dle for many people. We are too embar­rassed to say it, so we buy cards and gifts to represent our feelings. 
Certainly, these tokens mean a great deal. but not nearly as much as when we say it directly. The phrase, "I love you," expresses more emotion than any other words spoken in the English lan­guage. 
Another mistake is that many people unrealistically envision their parents as invincible superheroes with ever-pre­sent shoulders to cry on and serious 
"Rush Hour" 
Director: Brett Ratner Starring: jackie Chan, Chris Tucker, Tom Wilkinson and Mark Rolston 

(Out of five shamrocks) 
By JOEY LENISKI Scene Movie Critic 
Whoever believes that lilm is purely an unemotional and unattached art form which can be judged objectively upon the criteria of aesthetic value, thematic content, and professional handling has obviously 

advice to offer. Although  Meryl Streep plays Katherine Gulden,  
parents represent pillars  the ideal mother who lives for her fami­ 
of strength to some chil­ ly.  Renee  Zellweger portrays her  

dren, they will inevitably pass from this world. People sometimes under­estimate the old adage, "You don't appreciate something until its gone." 
Carl Franklin's new film "One True Thing" applies a similar theme in dealing with a mom who suffers from termi­nal cancer. Franklin, who lost his own mother to cancer, brings to film 
the powerful screenplay written by Karen Croner and based on a novel by Ann Quindlen. The film focuses on the Gulden family, who lives in an almost­perfect world until they receive word that mom has cancer. 

Photo Courtesy of Universal 
Meryl Streep gives another outstanding perfomance as matron Katherine Gulden. 
film somehow manages to make the audience forget about its much hackneyed formula and concentrate instead upon the hypervocal Chris Tucker and the 'don't blink or you will miss it' hand-to-hand wizardry of Jackie Chan. 
The premise is nothing new to a student of cheesy 80s action films. 
On the eve of Hong Kong's transformation from British to Chinese authority, the highly resourceful Detective Lee (Jackie Chan) breaks up a major crime ring. 

never sat in a full­Jackson­house opening night e s q u e premiere at a stadi­h a n d um-seating multiplex flashes and felt the roar of and high reaction from a fren­kicks. zied audience -or T h e has never seen any c r i m e schlock action-comedy lords kid­film from the 1980s. nap the 
Had the movie stuck daughter with the conventional of the 'cop-buddy comedy' Chinese scheme, "Rush Hour" Consul, could have been a prompting very bad retread of Photo Courtesy of New Line Cinema him to 
the genre which Chris Tucker (left) and Jackie Chan star in the enlist the action-comedy "Rush Hour," which raked in $31
seemed to dominate help of the 
million at the box office this past weekend. 
the last decade and a FBI and half. supercop But due mostly to the appeal and Lee. contrast of the two main actors, this The Feds, however, believe that they 
Meanwhile, the highly troublesome but smooth talkin' LAPD detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) manages to get two cops shot, detonate a car filled with C4 plastic explosives. destroy a city block, and celebrate his uncouth offensive with a flurry of 
Michael 

daughter, Ellen, a Harvard grad working for The New Yorker Magazine Audience members who relate more readi­ly with t h e i r fathers may identify more easily with Ellen. 
Tom Everett Scott plays the son Brian, who attends Harvard and plays for their 

tance between mother and daughter. Ellen and Katherine play polar oppo­sites, as Ellen pursues the role of a career woman and Katherine keeps house; Katherine plays a Martha Stewart groupie while Ellen has trouble mak­
ing toast. 

E I 1 e n overlooks these dif­ferences and finds herself drawn to the most admirabln quality of her mother her incredible ability 
Photo Courtesy of Universal to love. 

tennis  team.  "One True Thing" is a family drama that  Katherine  sus­ 
William Hurt is  emphasizes the importance of love and family  tains her loyalty  
the  husband  in a sometimes career-driven world.  to  her  family,  

George, a respected member of the community who teaches American literature at the local college. 
The news of Katherine's cancer expectedly devastates this successful family. 
After Ellen returns home, her father asks if she will stay and take care of her mother. At first, selfish ideas cen­tering around her career, the city and her boyfriend overwhelm Ellen. George reminds his daughter that her mother took care of her until she felt ready to leave home and now, in her mother's time of need, she must reciprocate the care. Ellen realizes that she needs to help her mom through this illness. 
Zellweger, Streep and Hurt do excel­lent jobs of clearly portraying the dis-
even when Brian is failing out of Harvard and when her husband cheats on her. She consistently teaches her daughter the profound value of love. 
Everyone should see "One Trun Thing" because it reminds us of the importance of family. It ean draw upon every emotion because of its emphasis on family and the unconditional love it offers. In watching the film you will undoubtedly think of the last time you told your parents you love them. and possibly want to take some action. 
So, go watch this film and rediscover the "One True Thing" in this crazy. mixed-up world of ours -love. Then call your parents and let them know how much they mean to you. Tell them you love them. 
The unique comedy of Jackie Chan 
c a n the book (much to 

inevitably screw this case up by 
themselvt~s 
and do not want Lee's help. Thus, they enlist Detective Carter to escort the Asian sleuth and give him the run around. 
0 r 
course, what fol­lows is standard shoot-em up fare. Despite ini­tial fric­tion, the two cops 

Photo Courtesy of New Line C1nema 
buddy up on 

The addition of comic Chris Tucker helped Jackie their own Chan's (above) usual action filled films to finally 
underground break though in the U.S. investigation to solve the case, much to the chagrin of their respective superiors. 
There is not much in the way of clever plot here, and the filmmakers do not go too far out of their way to pre­vent this movie from being predictable. 
But what does prevent this film from becoming "Beverly Hills Cop 4" is the hilarious play between the deadpan Chan and his Eddie Murphy-on-speed partner Tucker, both of which seem to draw their respective acting powers from an endless reservoir of energy. 
Tucker constantly taunts his sidekick, exhibiting a bravado-over-brains men­tality by telling Lee to "back him up" while he belligerently wields every politically incorrect Asian stereotype in the audience's delight, who would expect nothing less from his char­acter). 
Chan. on the other hand, does what he does best -creating come­dy through his apparent lack of understanding of American culture (he emulates thn slang used by Tucker to a disas­trous albeit side­splitting end) ­and basically just blasting the bad guys with a bevy of acrobatic attack maneuvnrs. 
In this movie alone he makns effectively violnnt use of a bar stool, a pool cue, a din­ner tray, a living room couch and a steering wheel 
handcuffed to his wrist as he constant­ly comes to the rescue of Detectivt­Carter. 
Chan's lightning-fast hands coupled with Tucker's lightning-fast mouth makes for a very entertaining relation­ship that stays true to standard "eop buddy" films but injects new life into a shop-worn formula. 
Perhaps I thought the film was fun­nier than it really was, as the crowd reaction was tumultuous and the laughter was highly contagious. But if Chris Tucker alone does not make you want to repeat everything he said in the movie seven times after it is over, then perhaps you should cheek on your funny bone. Or your pulse. 
S€<!ne 
O THE

Monday, September 21, 1998 ------------------------------------------------------------page 13
BSERVER 

• VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

11The Princess Bride" 
Director: Rob Reiner Starring: Cary Elwes, Robin Wright, Fred Savage, Andre the Giant, Billy Crystal, Mandy Patinken 

By JOE LARSON Scl'nl' Movil' Critic 
What do you look for when you rent a movie? Do you look for fights, humor and romance? What about piracy, miracles and giants? If you an~ looking for these things, then the 1wrfeet movie awaits you. 
"Tiw Princess Bride" is "Hocky," "Honwo and .Juliet" and the WWF combined into one. You have one rna n · s q LH~ s t for r ~~ v n n go pitted against anotlwr man's undying love for a woman. And. of eoursn. what love story would be complel!~ without Andre llw (;iant? 
"Tiw Princ1~ss Bridn" stars Cary Elwns as Westley, a farm boy that falls in lovn with his boss' daughter Butwrcup. playnd by Hobin Wright. 
It also stars Mandy Patinkin as Inigo Montoya-a man whose sole purpos1~ in life is to avnngn his fath1)r's dnath. Andre tlw c;ianl plays J.'pzzi k. a rhyming giant. 
Tlw prob!Pm starts when W!•stli)Y is h1~lievnd to lw murd1~r~~d and Prince llumpnrdinck. playPd by C h r s Sarandon, wants to marry lluttPrcup. 
Goldman really explores is whether or not true love is worth it. 
Westley must fence, wrestle giants. build up immunities to deadly poi­sons and eventually die for true love. 
Perhaps Goldman believes that one must earn true love. One cannot just order it and get it in the mail. He may even mean that you first need to wrestle a few giants before you can attain happiness. 
The ideal of fairness also underlies the meaning of this story. Is life fair? Goldman says no. 
Evnry good character in the movie suffers some unfairness. Inigo's fatlwr was killed at age 12. Although Westley and Buttnrcup find true love, they get separated from each other. Miracle Max gets fired from his job. Everyone thinks Fezzik is stupid. 
Wnstley's quote, "Life is pain," def­initely puts these hardships into per­spective. 
Even at the end. 
Inigo kills Count Hugen, yet he does not know what to do with his life. Westley and Buttercup get away, but must live wait­ing for llu.mperdinck to come after them again. What goes around does not always come back around. 
• CHART~TOPPERS 


Source: AP Online 


Video Title 

1. 
Titanic 

2. 
The Wedding Singer 

3. 
jackie Brown 

4. 
Good Will Hunting 

5. 
U.S. Marshals 

6. 
The Big Lebowski 

7. 
Wag the Dog 


8. 
The Man in the Iron Mask 

9. 
The Apostle 

1
0. Great Expectations 



Source: Billboard Online A I so. Inigo Robin Wright (above) stars with Cary Elwes as This movie rannot semn to the troubled couple in the fantasy "The addrnssns these 




Princess Bride."

l'ind Count Hugnn. played by Ch ristophnr <~uest. the six-fin­gered man who kil11~d his fathnr. So tho qtu)st lwgins, as Westley seeks his lnw lov1~. and Inigo ~~mbarks to avenge his father. 
This l'ilm. based on Honald (;oldman's book ("Butch Cassidy and tlw Sundanen Kid"), tackles many suhji)Cts, inrluding the notion of true loviL At tlH' b1~ginning of the movie. Westley says to Buttercup, "This is truP loV\). This doesn't ha1Jpnn 1wnry day." While this may lH' lnw. what 
ideas with an amazing amount of dry wit and humor. 
Grnat supporting performances by Billy Crystal and Carol Kane as Miracle Max and Valerie really make the film stand out. 
"The Princess Bride" is a great movie for any occasion. It is funny, romantic and action-packed. For an hour and a half you can forget about your homework and jump into a fairy tale world. So take a look and find out what "twu wove" is really about. 



At the theaters 

Urban Legend (Sony Sept. 25) 
Ronin (MGM/UA-Sept. 25) 
A Night at the Roxbury (Paramount-Oct. 2) 
At the video store 
He Got Game (Buena Vista) 
Mercury Rising (Universal) 
Hush (TriStar) 
Video Title 
1. 
Titanic 

2. 
Austin Powers 3. Spawn 2 




4. 
Pocahontas II: journey To A New World 

5. 
jerry Springer -Too Hot For TV! 

6. 
Playboy's Playmates Revisited 

7. 
Spice World 


8. 
Backstreet Boys: All Access Video 

9. 
Barney's Great Adventure 

10. 
The Exorcist -25th Anniversery Special Edition 


Source: Billboard Online 

Source: Hollywood.com 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 21, 1998 
..... 

McGwire's 65th leads Cards to win 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Mark McGwire hit his major league record 65th home run Sunday, then had an apparent No. 66 taken away by an umpire's ruling in the St. Louis Cardinals' game against Milwaukee. 
McGwire pulled two ahead of Sammy Sosa with a first-inning shot off Milwaukee left-hander Scott Karl. 
Everybody but second-base umpire Bob Davidson thought McGwire had No. 66 in the fifth inning, when he sent a line drive deep to left-center field off rookie Rod Henderson. 
But Davidson ruled that a fan had interfered by reaching over the yellow railing at the 392-foot sign and pulling the ball in. McGwire was forced to stop at second with a double ­he rounded the bag, looking for a signal -as the crowd jeered and Cardinals manager Tony La Hussa protested briefly. 
TV replays were inconclusive. 
The yellow pipe was installed about 18 inches above the out­field wall padding after the 1982 World Series, when a fan reached down and snatched a ball from Ben Oglivie's grasp. 
It has been the source of sev­eral disputes since, mostly because there's a chain-link fence between the padding and the yellow rail, making it diffi­cult for umpires to tell for cer­tain whether a ball clears the rail, hits right in front of it and bounces over or even if a fan reaches over. 
McGwire, who struck out four times Saturday night, took a curtain call after giving St. Louis a 2-0 lead. His 423-foot homer in the first followed a single by Fernando Tatis. 
Although most of his team­mates took regular batting practice, McGwire hit in the batting cage beneath County Stadium. 
Before the game, La Hussa said he had no doubt his slug­ger would bounce right back after his first four-whiff game of the year. 
"If you're talking about the mental aspect of the game, you never have to worry about Mark," La Russa said. "He's been very strong mentally. He's been the same every day, all year." 
On a 2-1 pitch, McGwire sent a no-doubt drive into the left­field bleachers, setting off a scramble for the ball. Charles Dombrowski, 21, of Wisconsin Rapids, came up with it. 
Karl also was victimized for long balls by Pat Kelly, Ron Gant and pitcher Manny Aybar before leaving the game after three innings trailing 6-0. 


Ripken ends 'The Streak' 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE The Streak is apparently over. 
After 16 years and 2,632 consecutive games, Cal Ripken took himself out of the Baltimore Orioles' starting lineup Sunday night and was not expected to play -ending the most amazing iron man record in sports history. 
"I think the time is right," Hipken told manager Hay Miller. 
The 38-year-old third base­man said he was not hurt. But with the Orioles out of playoff contention and playing their final home game of the season against the New York Yankees. Ripken decided to end the string that began on May 30, 1982. 
An Orioles source said Ripken, who had started every game during his streak, was not planning to play Sunday night. 
The end came during a mag­ical season that has featured the historic home run chase between Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa, a perfect game by David Wells and the Yankees' pursuit of the AL record for victories. 
There had been recent talk that Ripken would volunteer to end the streak. which broke Lou Gehrig's record of 2, 130. Before the game, he walked into Miller's office and asked to have his name removed from the lineup. Rookie Hyan Minor started in his place. 

One out into the game, when it became evident that Ripken would not be playing, all of the Yankees walked to the top step of the dugout, stood and applauded. 
Ripken emerged from the Orioles dugout, tipped his hat toward the Yankees and stepped back down to the bench. With the sellout crowd standing and cheering, Hipkcn came out again and bowed to his fans. 
There was an immediate rush to the souvenir stands at Camden Yards, with fans lin­ing up to buy programs to the mark the historic night. 
Ripken was batting .273 with 14 home runs and 61 RBis. 
His numbers are among the lowest of his career, which began in 1981. His streak began the next season, when he became the AL Hookie of the Year. 
It started when Ronald Reagan was still in his first term as president. It was over­seen by eight managers ­including his father, Cal Sr. ­and lasted longer than most baseball careers. It was ana­lyzed, criticized and scruti­nized. 
And now, it seems to be over. 
While it appears no one will ever again play in 2,632 con­secutive games, the man who broke Gehrig's seemingly unbreakable record by more than 500 isn't so sure the record will be his for eternity. 
On Sept. 6, 1995, Hipken passed Gehrig's record. Then a shortstop, Ripken became the sport's all-time iron man on June 14, 1996. when he played in his 2,216th consecutive game -surpassing the record previously held by Japan's Sachio Kinugasa. 
After he broke Kinugasa's record in Kansas City, Hipken was asked if he thought the mark would remain his forev­er. 
"A lot of people think this is a great, great accomplish­ment," Ripken said. "But I really believe that somebody else will come along and play more games, because if I can do it, somebody else definitely will. I don't consider myself superhuman and I'm not an iron man physically or mental­ly. 
"It's just that the right com­bination of things happened in my baseball career that allowed me to do that." 
Hipken had played in every Orioles game since that day in 1982 when Earl Weaver start­ed him at third base after giv­ing him a break in the second game of a doubleheader one day earlier. 
Ripken moved to shortstop on June 30 of that season and stayed at the position for 2,216 games before Manny Alexander replacnd him while Ripken moved to third on July 15, 1996. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for next-day classi­
Classifieds fieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  DUNGARVIN INDIANA OFFERS A TREMENDOU&.QPPORTUNITY TO SUPPLEMENT YOUR INCOME  FOR RENT  I ~'==T=IC=KE=T=S::-------1  I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Stanford (Oct. 2} for my baby broth­er and his friend (a prospective}. If  $6 Haircuts VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
We are an organization committed  you can help me, please call 4­ 1523 Lincolnway West  
THE COPY SHOP  to responding to the choices of peo­ 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  Need I STANFORD ga, will  0562. Ask for Michelle.  Closed Sun & Wed  
LaFortune Student Center  ple with developmental disabilities,  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  sell or trade 1 ARMY.  
We're Open A Lot!!!  and respecting those choices. We  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  Call Michael x1951.  M-T-Th-Fr-8-4  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  do this by providing habilitation  Need 2 Stanford GAs  Sat 8-3  
Fri: 7:30am -7:00 pm  training and respite care.We offer a  That Pretty Place, Bed and  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Call Brad x4973  
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm  unique training program designed  Breakfast Inn has space available  GAMES.272-6306  Help Wanted:The Student Activities  
Sun: Noon -Midnight  for compliance and quality.We will  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  Office is accepting applications for  
When you need copies,  train all of those who have the heart  with private baths,$80­ TICKETMART Inc  Have two LSU GA's.Would like to  Student Program Assistants.PA's  
we're open!  and desire for this type of social  $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  BUY-SELL-TRADE  trade for two Purdue GA's.Callt­ are responsible for assisting with  
service.a nd meet the minimum  campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800­ Notre Dame Football Tickets  800-324-2653 x4679.  campus events working eight hours  
entry requirements.  418-9487.  258-1111  weekly.Applications are available  
Early Spring Break  No student tickets please  I Need ASU TIX  outside the SA0,315  
Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6  We have a service site near you,  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  243-2934  LaFortune.Applications are due  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  and offer a variety of schedules  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  9/23/98.  
Awesome  which may accomodate a student's  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  I NEED A STANFORD  BUYING  N.D.  TICKETS  ""'""'"''  
Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From  schedule favorably.Our positions  TICKET  ALL GAMES...  277-1659  An appendage?  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  start at $8.50 per hour and there  BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­ 
Air,Hotei.Meals &Parties  are many benefit options.  BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­ GA or Student, call me  FOR  SALE  N.D.  TICKETS  Whoa.  
$339!Panama City Room With  PUS.  x2276  ALL  GAMES 272-7233 ...  
Kitchen.? Free Parties  Dungarvin has career options within  219-277-6832.  """The boy scout in beige.. ."  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  the company, as we provide ser­ FOR SALE  I need 5 LSU tix. Call Eric  
$149!1998 BBB Award  vices throughout the U.S.If you  FOOTBALL TICKETS  x1808.  It's a bird! It's a plane! It's...  
Winner!springbreaktravel.com  would like more information,call our  BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­ 271-9412  SUPERMAN!!!!  
1-800-678-6386  Employment lnfoline at 888-297­ BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­ 
8582.  PUS.  WANTED  PURDUE -2 GA's for SALE  No wait... it's just Doug balancing  
219-277-6832.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  243-1626 leave offer  on the couch again.  
Beautiful B&B has rooms left for ND  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  271-1526  
home football games. 1.5 miles  The Early Childhood Development  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  WANTED!  It's a lady.  
north of campus. Reasonable  Center, located at Saint Mary's  info:  NO Ftbl. tix  Purdue Ticket  
rates. GREAT FOR PARENTS!  College and the University of Notre  http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  BUY-SELL  4-1067  
Call for details. 219.277.2388  Dame, is looking for volunteers who  219-291-7153.  674-7645  There WAS a problematic individual  
enjoy young children. If you would  Need 1 Stanford tic.  there.  
be interested in spending 2 hours a  x0759  (but we didn't know how problemat­ 
WANTED  week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing  913 LAWRENCE 3 BED GARAGE BASEMENT  ND Football-Buy-Sell. Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  ic until the next day.)  
songs with children, please call  LARGE YO WALK TO CAMPUS  674-7645  SELLING TWO GA's TO  
Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC­ 575 MO 500 DEP.  PURDUE & STANFORD  I like to fill in the blanks for people  
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK..  SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631­ FACULTY OR STAFF  243-2770  on Sunday mornings.  
"TAKE 2"  3344  232-2595  NO Football Tickets Needed.  
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 SALES and ...EARN $$$$.  (ECDC-ND). Please join our fun filled days.  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  PERSONAL  Good things come in tall and dark packages.  
Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, Padre! Lowest prices! Free  SPRING BREAK '99!  FOR SALE  Happy 21st SOPHIE  I love the smell of freezer burn.  
Meals, Parties & Drinks.  Cancun'Nassau'Jamaica'Mazatlan  ND FOOTBALL TIX  
··umited Offer··. 1800-426­ • Acapulco'Bahamas  WHY PAY RENT? Grad students,  FOR SALE  Yo quiero Taco Bell.  
771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  Cruise'Fiorida'South Padre  faculty-3-bedrm ranch. 1 0 min. to  AM 232-2378  
Travel Free and make lots of  ND. Move-in condition. $42,500.  PM 288-2726  Sosa should win it, not McGwire.  
Cash!Top reps are offered full-time  232-8340  FAX IT FAST!!!  
>.  staff jobs. Lowest price  Sending & Receiving  Happy 21st Mo!  
I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" t­ Guaranteed. Call now for details!  Need LSU tix  at  
shirts for me and my dad. If you sell  www.classtravel.com  For sale 8-CD live Phish box set.  289-2918  THE COPY SHOP  
them or have a few extra, please  800/838-6411  Not available in the US. Call Pete  LaFortune Student Center  The bathrooms in the basement of  
help me out. Call Michelle at 4­ at 251-0178  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  South Dining Hall are worse than a  
0562.  MYSTERY SHOPPERS  FAX IT FAST!!!  rest stop on 1-80 in the middle of no  
WANTED  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  Always buying and selling N D foot­ where.  
You Dine...We Pay  198 MIN. $20  ball tickets. 289-8048  
ND Prof and spouse seeking turn.  Professional restaurant experience  CALL 258-4805  That is not a complaint but merely  
place. Nov-Dec '98;near campus  a must.  an observation.  
pref.Tellfax 403-885­ Why not enjoy a meal out on  '87 Chevy Nova, auto, AIC, 81K mi.  Need 5 Purdue GAs  WELCOME FRESHMAN KATIE  
4136,D.Bergen  us?Call PDB Management  Runs Great. $1800. 277-0526.  Call x3501 Eric  BARKLEY  
1-888-7 43-7999  

-~­


Interhall Football Fall 1998 


SEE TOMORROW'S OBSERVER FOR COMPLETE INTERHALL COVERAGE 
Photos by Jeff Hsu and Liz Lang 

----------------------~--~--·----~~ ~-------------~----«~-----~--~---~ 
Monday, September 21, 1998 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 

-


Vikings improve to 3-0 with victory over Steelers 
AssociJred Press 
MINNEAPOLIS Barry Sanders for 6 yards. Sanders for 15. Sanders for 4. Sanders for ... almost noth­ing else. 
The Minnesota Vikings held the NFL's most fe<tred running back to just 24 yards after the first two series and rattled rookie quarterback Charlie Batch into three turnovers on thn way to a 29-6 victory over the Detroit Lions on Sunday. 
The Vikings were especially punishing against Sanders in the second half. holding him to 
12. yards on 13 carries as they pulled away from a 6-6 half­time tie. They did it by being patient and nearly perfect in their run defense. something they haven't done much in recent years. 
"You've got to be disciplined. but aggressive," defensive coordinator Foge Fazio said. "As soon as you see him you go. boom. You miss him, some­body else will get him." 
That's never easy to do, especially for thfJ Vikings (3-0), who had allowed Sanders to go over 100 yards in five straight games. lie seemed to be on the way again after gaining 45 yards in the first quarter as Uetroit built a 6-0 lead, but that was nearly all Sanders got. 
That left the Lions (0<-~l with nowhere to turn as Batch struggled through his NFL debut. throwing two intercep­tions and losing a fumble that led to a touchdown. 
"You never dream of being 0-3," said Detroit offensive tackle Ray Roberts. "I thought we'd b() 3-0. Our offense just isn't producing anything. We didn't do much to create any­thing for Barry. But Minnesota had a lot to do with that." 
Linebacker Dwayne Hudd led the Vikings with 10 tackles, all solo stops. Minnesota also sacked Batch five times. with John Randle and Ed McDaniel getting 1 1/2 apiece. 
McDaniel also forced and recovered a fumble and set the tone. for the second half ny stuffing Sanders for 2-and 3­yard losses on the first two plays of the third quarter. 
"We weren't really worried about Barry, we were worried about us," said defensive end Derrick Alexander. "We were worried about everybody doing their job and tilling their gaps. If we did that, he would have to do some spectacular things back there to make things happen." 
The smothering defensive effort allowed the Vikings to overcome some of their own offensive sluggishness with Randall Cunningham starting in place of injured quarterback Brad Johnson. 
The Vikings sputtered near the end zone most of the day, settling for five Gary Anderson field goals. 
But Cunningham threw a 5­yard touchdown pass to Randy Moss in the third quarter after a 44-yard punt return by David Palmer. That gave Minnesota the lead for good, and Leroy Hoard scored on an 11-yard run to make it 26-6 early in the fourth quarter after Batch's fumble. 
Directing an offense that had too many options for the Lions even with Johnson out 4-6 weeks with a broken leg, Cunningham was 20-for-35 for 220 yards. 
"I knew they were going to be tight down in the red zone," Cunningham said of Detroit's defense. "And we made some mistakes that stopped us. It was a tough bat­tle early in the game. I'm happy our defense played as well as they piayed." 
Batch, who got his first start when Scott Mitchell was demoted to third string after blowing last week's game against Cincinnati, was poised early and got plenty of help from Sanders. 
The Lions got field goals on their first two drives and .led 6-0, but they made it into Minnesota territory only once more. Randle ended that drive at the 10 when he sacked Batch on fourth down midway through the final period. 
Batch finished 20-for-40 for 160 yards. 
"Ultimately, I'm the person to blame for all this," Detroit coach Bobby Ross said. "And right now I'm embarrassed by it." 
Dolphins 21 Steelers 0 
Kordell Stewart and the Pittsburgh Steelers are the lat­est to find out that the Miami Dolphins' defense is one to be reckoned with. 
Linebacker Zach Thomas returned an interception 17 yards for a touchdown and cornerback Sam Madison picked off two passes, one of which set up another score, as the Dolphins recorded their first shutout in six years with a 21-0 victory over the Steelers. 
"The big concern we had with Kordell was we had to kee.p him in the pocket," said Dolphins coach Jimmy Johnson. "We didn't want to do anything with our pass rush that's going to allow him to run. We tried to collapse the pocket and surround him." 
Miami improved to 3-0 for the fourth time in five years and handed Pittsburgh its first loss in three games. The Dolphins are 13-4 in September since 1994. 
Stewart appeared confused by Miami's varying defensive coverages throughout the day and completed just 11-of-35 passes for 82 yards and three interceptions. The double­threat quarterback was 4-of­15 yards for just three yards in the first half, when the Dolphins built a 14-0 lead. 
"Obviously, this was not our best day," said Stewart. "Things were not clicking. We got our behinds kicked. Plain and simple. You have to give credit to the defense." 
Miami's shutout was its first in a regular-season game since a 28-0 win at Indianapolis on November 8th. 1992. The Dolphins recorded a 31-0 shutout of San Diego in a divi­sional playoff in January 1993. It marked the first time the Steelers were blanked since a 27-0 loss to the Los Angeles Rams on September 12, 1993. 
"That was an extremely poor 
display of offensive football," 
said Steelers coach Bill 
Cowher. "Miami played good 
defense·, but we played poor 
offensively. We will get this 
thing turned around." 
Miami continued its new pat­
tern of emphasizing the run 
under new offensive coordina­
tor Kippy Brown, despite going 
up against a defense that 
ranked first against the run 
last year. Karim Abdul-Jabbar 
set a regular-season club 
record with 33 carries and 
produced 108 yards, including 
a three-yard touchdown in the 
second quarter. 
Meanwhile, Dan Marino 
attempted just 22 passes and 
completed 14 for122 yards, 
including an eight-yard TD to 
Lamar Thomas. Marino, the 
most prolific passer in NFL 
history, averaged just 147 
yards passing in each of 
Miami's first two wins this sea­
son. 
"It was a good solid win," 
said Marino. "The Steelers are 
a good team and we're 3-0 
going into ther bye week. 
We're playing very well as a 
group." 
The Dolphins held Jerome 
Bettis to 48 yards on 13 car­
ries. 
"It was just a situation 
where we couldn't get any­
thing going and it happens like 
that," said Bettis. "We have to 
look at what we can do to take 
the pressure off him 

(Stewart)." 
Pittsburgh had a chance to open the scoring, but Norm Johnson's 47-yard f'ield goal was deflected by Dolphins' rookie Kenny Mixon six sec­onds into the second quarter. 
The Dolphins then put together an 11-play, 64-yard scoring drive which consumed more than seven minutes. Marino was 5-for-5 for 57 yards, including a pair or 14­yard passes to O.J. McDuffie. 
But it was Abdui-Jabbar who capped the drive with three runs. On 3rd-and-2 at the Pittsburgh 9, Abdui-Jabbar rushed behind left guard Mark Dixon for a five-yard gain to the 4. After a one-yard run to the 3, Abdul-Jabbar went up the middle for a three-yard. touchdown with 5:12 left in the half. 
Abdul-Jabbar already has two 100-yard games this sea­son, matching his total in 1997. He had 108 yards on 23 carries in the season-opening win at Indianapolis. 
On Pittsburgh's ensuing pos­session. Stewart foreed a pass into double coverage and Madison picked it ofT in front of Courtney Hawkins at the Steelers' 37 and returned it 13 yards. 

~ -Cl 
~\t-c~a ~a~Jiil 
HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information. 289-5080 
"What is Consulting?" 
Are you considering a career in IT consulting? Do you ever wonder what consultants REALLY do??? 
Stop by the CCE tonight to share the real IT project experiences of· 
Kevin McCarter Katie Wolsfeld 
Partner 
Steve Keegan 
Manager 
~onda~Sept.1998 
6:30 pm -8:30 pm Lower Level of CCE 

Sr. Consultant 
Mandy Brown 
Systems Analyst 
Sponsored by ... 
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group 
~==========================================:d 
-~-~--~-----~-­
Monday, September 21, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• WOMEN's TENNIS 
Varnum advances to finals in Eck Classic 
Special to The Observer 
The Notrn Dame women's tennis team wrapped up the annual Eck Classie on Sunday at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Irish freshman Becky Vamum dropped the champi­onship match of the Blue Flight. falling to Marquette's Elisa Penalvo, ranknd 26th in tlw eountry. in alight (,-1, 4-6, (J-3 match. Frnshman Lindsey (;rnnn finished fifth in the Blue Flight with a 7-(, (7-5), 6-3 win over Illinois' Stary Schapiro. 
In the Blun Flight consola­tions. junior Kelly Zalinksi dropped lwr final match 6-4. 3­6, 6-4 to Drake's Cecily Dubusker, while junior Sarah Scar-inge won 6-3, 6-0 over Illinois-Chicago's Jacki FaiT. Freshman Nina Vaughan and sophomore Kim Guy also dropped Blue Flight consola­tion matches, while freshman Berica Day lost in the Gold con­solations. 
In the Blue Flight doubles, Green and Scaringe teamed up to win the flight with an 8-2 win over teammates Varnum and Zalinski. Guy and Vaughan finished fifth in the Blue Flight doubles after beat­ing Illinois-Chicago's Emina Curie and Sara Jackson. 
• St\!NT MARY's GOLF 

Linksters place fourth 
By ALEXA HILAL 
Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's golf coach Theresa Pekarek is thrilled. The Belles exceeded all expectations over the week­end at their second tourna­ment of the season as they placed fourth among all nine teams in the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) confer­ence. The match was held at Pine Hiver Country Club in Alma, Michigan. 
"At our last match, no one scored under 100 points," said Pekarek. "Our main goal going into this match was to break 100, and we did-three times. I couldn't be happier." 

It was captain Heather Podraza's dominant play that led the Belles to success with a score of 88, followed by freshmen Mary Claire Hathaway and Megan Keleher, and sophomore Kyle Veltri who shot 94, 97, and 104 respectively. 
"This is the best perfor­mance that I have had in my entire career," Podraza said. "I hope to continue to perform at this level and improve even more. I am extremely excited for the rest of the season." 
The Belles shocked the coaches and players of the MIAA teams. Despite the dis­advantages of a premier sea­son and a relatively young squad. Pakarek's team has tenaciously competed and is currently ranked third in the conference. After scoring 408 in their first match at Albion College, the team improved Saturday and shot 383. 
"I am so proud of every­one's performance," Podraza said. "Our record keeps improving and we are very enthusiastic about our play. think we have really sur­prised a lot of people." 
The Belles hope to improve even more and are staying goal oriented during this inaugural season. 
"For our next match, we are trying to stay focused; now our goal is to shoot under 95," said Pekarek. 
• \IOLlf.YBAll 
Notre Dame falls just short in final of MSU Invitational 
Special to The Observer Dame (3-5) lost to 18th-ranked Michigan State 15-6, 15-13 and In a ganw highlightml by long 15-11 in the final match of the 
rallies, 24th-ranknd Notre Michigan State Invitational. 

Lindsay Treadwell led the Irish with 11 kills, 16 digs and five blocks. Treadwell was named to the all-tournament squad, her second such honor this season. She was also named to the all-tournament team at the Shamrock Invitational. 
Besides being the last match of the tournament, the game also features a coaching duel between Notre 1'>amc coach Debbie Brown and Michigan State's Chuck Erbe. 
Erbe coached Brown at the University of Southern California from 1976-77, when the Trojans won two Association of Intercollegiate Athlntics for Women (AIAW) championships and finished with a 72-1 two-year record. 
In the first game of the match against Michigan State and Notre Dame, the Spartans jumped out to a 5-0 lead. The 
Check out tnore about the Sacrament of 

Arc \10\...., b..,ptizct> c~tholic who h~s l1CVCr bccl1 Col1firmct>? 
Arc \10U woHt>cril15 whether \10U l1cct> to be Col1fh111Ct> to set m~rrict> il1 the c~tholic Church? 


For more information about the Confirmation program, come to our first meeting: 
W ol-tlt> \10l-t like to prcp~rc for CoHfirm~tiol1 with other Notre D~»1c stut>mts who ~rc t>cNc"tct> to gro\Vil15 il1 their f~ith? 
Sicgfncb Cl1arc1 on T \-fcsba\1. Sept. 22l1b at 7:00 rm 
Please contact Fr. John Conley, CSC or Katie Pvtlak at 631-5242 or stop by the Badin CampL;s Ministry office with any questions. 
1&41 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 

Irish scored their first point on a hitting error by Jenna Wrobel, but Michigan State answered with two more points extending its lead to 7-1 before a Notre Dame timeout. 
After the timeout, the Irish scored two points on kills by freshmen Kristy Kreher and Marcie Bomhack. The Spartans then took any momentum that the Irish had gained by scoring three straight points. 
Following another Michigan State point on an ace, the Irish scored two points to pull within five at 11-6. That would be as close as Notn~ Dame would get in the first game, as the Spartans scored their final four points on a Notre Dame net vio­lation, a Spartan dig on a Christi Giron hitting attempt and two aces to win 15-6. 
The Spartans maintained their momentum in the begin­ning of game two by taking a 2­0 lead. The Irish came back to tie the score at three and four all, before taking their first lead on the serve of Giron. Behind Giron's serve, the Irish scored two pints on a pair of kills by Emily Schiebout and a solo block Bornhack. 
After Bornhack was blocked on a hitting attempt to give the Spartans their fifth point, Notre Dame increased its lead to 8-5 after two kills by Giron. 
A kill by Wrobel, a hitting error by Irish sophomore Jo Jameyson and a ball handling error by Notre Dame's Adrienne Shimmel tied the score at 8-8 before an Irish timeout. Brown's squad scored three points on the strong serv­ing of Jameyson and another two on a solo bloek by Treadwell and a Schiebout kill. 
The Spartans came back to tie the score at 13-13. thnn took the lead on a kill by Jennifer Stroffe. Michigan State com­pleted its comeback by scoring the game's final point on an ace, winning 15-13. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 5-2 lead in game three. A Spartan ace and two kills by Wrobel tied the game at five. With the game tied at six, Michigan State took back the lead at 8-6. 
The Irish then scored three points on a ball handling error and two kill by TreadwPll to make the seorn 9-8. Stroffe's ace and a kill by Wrobel then gave the Spartans' the lead at 10-9. 
Three straight points by Michigan Statn got the Spartans to within two points of the win, but the Irish elimbed baek to within two at 13-11 before Erbe called a timeout. Erbe's squad then scored on a kill by Stmffe to put the score at 14-11. An attacking error by Sehiebout ended the match at 15-9. 

Notre Dame/St. Mary's Ballroom Dance Club 
1998 Fall Schedule 9/22-Tango 9/29-Samba 10/6-West Coast Swing 
10/13-Midterms 
(no class) 10/20 -Fall Break 10/27-Hustle 
11/3 -Rhumba 11/10-Waltz 11/17 -Mambo 11/24-Foxtrot 
21/1 -Salsa and Merengue (LaFortune Ballroom) 
r-----------------------------------------------,
This is a reminder that class will meet from : 
8:30 to 10:00pm in 301 Rockne. Class will 
1 

cost $3 or you can purchase club membership : for $15 (any classes you have paid for will be i credited toward the $15 dues) We look for-: 
I 

ward to seeing you. : 
-----------------------------------------------~1 
page 18 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
From there. it was a matter of who lasted longest and had the most n~serv~~s. No one scored in the first overtime. but there were some very close calls at Saint Marv's end of the field. Everyone was.tiring out as double overtime began. 
Early on, Priganc was injured and Saint Mary's looked especial­ly tired. They played hard, but Warner scored the winning goal for Anderson to make it 3-2. 
Coach Sharp agreed that Saturday was just a matter of who had more endurance. and it was Anderson. "It's just a matter of who lasts loner," said Sharp. "We need to work a little more 
on  our  endurance  for  next  
week."  
The  Belles  have  a  match  
against  Franklin  College  

Thursday at home. Coach Sharp thinks his Belles can continue to improve and beat Franklin if they continue to work on the fun­damentals. "We need to focus on basic skills, and passes. We'll be back at practice on Monday and Franklin should be an even 
match." 
The Observer • SPORTS 
The Observer/Beth Mayer 
Saint Mary's dropped a close match to Anderson, 3-2. 


Monday, September 21, I 998 

Irish perform well in Lone Star state 
Special w The Observer 
HOUSTON 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team wrapped up its first tournament of the year with a singles winner at the Hice Invitational on Sunday in Houston, Texas. 
Irish freshman Casey Smith won the B Flight singles when Csongor Bibza was force to retire after Smith won the second set 7-6. Bibza had won the first set 6­
4. 

Freshman Andrew Laflin, who lost to Bibza in the first round, won the consolation draw with a 6-1, 7-6 win over Texas A&M's Gonzalez Anderson. Sophomore Matt Daly !inished third after beat­ing Hice's Prakash Venkataraman 6-1, 7-6. 
In Flight A singles, senior Andy Warford won the conso­lation draw with a 6-1, 6-1 win over Texas A&M's Cody Hubbnll who had beaten Irish sophomore Luke Warford on Saturday. 
Junior Hob Warn won thn D Flight consolation when sophomore teammate Ashok Raju was forced to retire after losing the first set 6-3. 
Freshman Aaron Talarico lost a 6-0, 6-4 match to Texas A&M's Jarin Skube in thn finals of the D Flight singles. 
Thn Irish return to the courts Sept. 24-27, at the T. Howe Price National Clay Court Championships in Baltimore, Md., first of four legs of the college tennis Grand Slam. .Junior All­American and eighth-ranked Hyan Sachire will compete in the singles draw and will team with senior Brian Patterson in the doubles com­petition. 

Irish schedule released 
Special w The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team has announced its 26-game schedule for the upcoming 1998-99 campaign. The slate features 14 home games and six teams which last year participated in the 64-team NCAA tournament. 
Visits by UCLA, Duke, Illinois and Big East rival Connecticut highlight the home schedule for the Irish. Notre Dame returns four starters from last season's 22-10 squad which advanced to the Sweet 16 and finished 17th in the final USA Today/ESPN Coaches poll. 
After two exhibition games on Nov. 4 and 11, Notre Dame begins a challenging first month of the season when it opens up at home against UCLA on Saturday, Nov. 14. This will be the 12th meeting between the two schools and the second straight year the Irish and the Bruins have played each other. Last year, Notre Dame earned its first-ever win at Pauley Pavilion with a 93-91 double-overtime decision. 
Former Midwestern Collegiate conference foes, Butler and Notre Dame resume their rivalry for the 24th time when the Irish travel to Indianapolis for a contest on Nov. 18. The two teams opened up the 1997 

1998·99 Notre Dame Women's Basketball Schedule 
HOME GAMES IN BOLD 
season at Notre Dame with. the Irsih earning a 71-65 vic­tory. 
Notre Dame then plays back-to-hack home games against Duke and Illinois. The Irish and Blue Devils will be meeting for the fourth time and the second straight year. Last season, Duke beat Notre Dame 80-62 in Durham, N.c;. Notre Dame and Illinois will meet for a fourth time this season, and first time since 1982; the lllini have won all three previous games. 
The Irish conclude the month of November with a non-league contest and a first-ever visit to San Francisco. The two schools met for the !1rst time last year as the Irish earned a 15-point decision, 62-47. 
Other non-conference teams on the Irish schedule include South Florida and Michigan State. 
Notre Dame plays three conference games in the month of December. The Irish open their 18-game league slate at home against five­time defending Big East champion Connecticut on Dee. 8, the only time the two teams will face each other this season. That contest will be followed by Villanova's visit to the Joyce Center on Dec. 12. Notre Dame travels to Boston College on Dec. 28 for its first league road test of the season. 
College Event: Lecture and reading by SEAMUS DEANE Donald and Marilyn Keough Chair for Irish Studies and author of the novel "Reading in the Dark" 
Telling the Time; Words and Pictures 
I 
Nineteenth Century Gallery, Snite Museum of Art Monday, September 21, 1998 4:15P.M. Free and Open to the Public 

Free cigars and hot dogs while they last! 
Doors open at 7:00pm 
ICON has SPECIALS every night to fit every budget 

Monday, September 21, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• MEN'S BASKETBALl

• SAINT MARlS VOl.LEYBAU. 
-
Belles triumph twice in weekend matches 
By RACHEL DEER Spons Wrircr 
With a :{-R record, tlw Saint Mary's Bell1~s took the court with the thought of possibly los­ing yet anotlwr game. 
That wasn't the case this Wl~nkend. as the B1~1les pulled thomselves fhm1 their losing dol­drums. 
The Hellos wnrn on the road Friday and Saturday and came hom1~ with two morn wins, dnfeating Dofianee 3-1 and Adrian in tlmH~ straight games. 
"i\l'tnr our loss on Tuesday, llwsn past two matdws will lw our stepping stotll~ to better tPamwork and mot·n hustle," said sPLtnr Suzanne Martin. 
Martin s1~1mwd to be providing mur.h of till~ hustln ovnr tho wePkPnd. She powerod the t1~arn to a win owr DPiianr.e on Friday with 70 assists. only four less than tlw school rncord books show sinr.n tlw narly 1 !JRO's. 
Tlw lkllns took lkf'ianc1~ in four ganws, 15-13, R-15, 15-12 amllfl-14. 
"This was tlw scrappiest team we have played against so far," said coach Jennie Joyce after the victory. "We had eonsistent net play and persistent defense. They really played well." 
Junior tri-captain Agnes Bill put away 20 kills and picked up :B digs . .Jayne Ozbolt hammered 18 kills against Defiance and .Jolie LeBeau racked up eight blocks. 
The team traveled to Adrain College on Saturday to play an early 10 a.m. matr.h. They rolled over Adrain 15-6, 15-8 and 15­10 in probably their best match this season. 
"We used a new line up and stayed true to our systems," .Jovce said. 
'I'his moves llw Belles to a 2-1­r.onferonce re!:ord and 5-R over­all.i\gtws Bill camo alive again with 14 kills and 16 digs. 
"It was a great weekend. Everyone was mentally there. We playml to our potential. but I know we can play even better," Bill said aflllr the win. 
Mogan Jardina totaled 16 digs and frllshman Angie Meyers had two service aces. 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifeti.ne. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Tra1nmg School. Upon successful completion of the Officer Training School. you will become a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits like-great starting pay, medical and 
dental care. man• ement and travel 
AIM HIGH opportunitie~ ~--nore on how to qualify 

and get your career soaring with the 
Air Force Officer Training School, call 
1-800-423-USAF, or visit our website at 
www.airforce.com 
www.airforce.com 
Special ro The Observer 
Notre Dame men's basketball 
team will play a minimum of 
13 games against teams that 
advanced to national postsea­
son play last year. 
The 1998-99 Irish basketball 
schedule was released today 
and the slate includes 18 Big 
East Conference regular sea­
son games, eight non-confer­
ence contest and a trip to the 
Carrs Great Alaska Shootout 
over Thanksgiving weekend. 
Notn~ Dame will open its sea­
son with a pair of exhibition 
games at the Joyce Center 
against One World Basketball 
on Mon., Nov. 2 and Team 
Fokus on Sun., Nov. 8. The 
Irish thon open the regular 
season at home on Fri., Nov. 13 
against Miami of Ohio, a team 
that advanced to the champi­
onship game of the Mid­
America Conference 
Tournament last season. 
Head coach John MacLeod 
and his team will venture to 
Anchorage for Thanksgiving as 
they take part in Carrs Great 
Alaska Shootout. 
Notre Dame returns from 
/\Iaska and play in-state rival 
Indiana at the Joyce Center on 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
you know you have good players behind you." 
The Irish also displayed their smothering defense in Friday's 3-0 victory over Hutgers, allow­ing just three shots in that con­test. 
The ofl'ense went right to work and scored 56 seeonds into the contest. Freshman Lindsey Jones scored her first career goal when her blast from 20 
We're Here For You 
Have lunch or breaks at one ofthese convenient locations 
COBA 
Comnwn Stock Sandwich Co. Lower level 
Open 7:00a.m. -3:00p.m. 
O'Shaughnessy 
Waddicks First floor 
Open 7:00a.m. 
Bond Hall 
Caf'e Poche First .floor 
Open 8:00a.m. -2:00p.m. 
-5:00p.m. 
Serving delicious soup, sandwiches, daily hot lunch specials, gourmet coffee, freshly-baked pastries, yogurt, soda, juices, fresh fruit 
Open Monday • Friday to all staff, students, faculty and visitors 

Irish announce schedule 
1998·99 Notre Dame Menls Basketball Schedule 
For November and December 

Dec. 1. The Irish will open their fourth season of Big East Conference play on Dec. 8, 
yards out ricocheted off a Rutgers defender and into the upper-right corner of' the net. That unlikely goal turned out to be the game winner. 
Jones assisted on the Irish's next score when she crossed the ball from the left endline to Meotis Erickson, who put the Irish up 2-0 at 4:53. 
Makinen set up the Irish's final goal when her rocket from 20 yards out hit the crossbar and deflected right to Jenny Streil1'er, who put it into the top of the net at 38:57. 
Makinen immediately made her presence felt in that game after missing the Duke and North Carolina games. 
"She's a great player to have on the field," said Grubb. "She controls the center midfield and can get the ball and hold it. She brings a real spark to this team." 
The Irish outshot Rutgers 34-3 on the evening. 
when it travels to Providence. The Big East home opener be Dec. 29 against Syracuso. 
Despite the two impressive vic­tories, the Irish are still looking to improve. 
"I think we played well over­all." said Makinen after the Villanova game. 
"We got our intensity up which was one of our goals and we created good chances. But I think we need to work on our finishing. We had 53 shots today, but only five goals. I hope we can work on that." 
Following the Villanova game. Petrucelli spoke about the team's progress in the improv­ing department. 
"I think it's a long proeess that takes the length of a season," said Petrucolli. "We only had three days of praetice since the North Carolina game, so I think it's hard to say we've improved. The one thing I would say we improved on is our attitude." 
The Irish will look to continue their winning ways in this week­end's Irish Key Bank Classic. 

Need Cash?? 
/ ~'" 

·Earn $25.00 Today with this Ad 
I ~ll!lii::, and a student I.D. 
I '!i 

~------------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 10 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
-~-------­


RAN KINGS 


UCLA Bruins extend streak to 12 wins 
1) Ohio State 3-0 1,744 "It's nice to win both of these Cougars' rush. He started overall I think they stepped up 
2) Nebraska 3-0 1,601 
UCLA easily games both years," UCLA slowly and finished by as the game progressed." 
3) UCLA. 2-0 1,562 coach Bob Toledo said. "We completing 17 of 32 passes for The Cougars finally were 
4) Tennessee 2-0 1,542 defeats Houston want to be in on some of the 315 yards with one overcome by their mistakes. kids from Texas and this interception. McNown thought Three turnovers in the second
5) Kansas St. 3-0 1,522 

despite humidity certainly helps." officials weren't taking control half led to a pair of UCLA6) LSU 2-0 1,389 The Bruins (2-0) beat Texas of the game but he was touchdowns.
7) Penn State 3-0 1,255 A<sociated Press 

49-31 on Sept. 12 before pleased with the victory. "A week from now, no one
8) Florida 2-1 1,242 

73,070 in the Rose Bowl. "What I would like to say is will remember how hard we
9) Washington 2-0 1,217 HOUSTON 

Saturday they played before how well this team played and played," Houston coach Kim 
10) Florida State 2-1 1,043 UCLA seems willing to go 

19,540 at Robertson Stadium, they overcame a lot of Helton said. "They will justanywhere to play a team from
11) Virginia 3-0 1,011 currently undergoing adversities," he said. "Whether know that we are 0-3.
Texas.

12) Syracuse 2-1 981 renovation. It became the it was penalties or injuries, I Physically, our defense played
The Bruins played in tiny

13) Georgia 3-0 930 Cougars' permanent home would rather just talk about as well as it can play."
Robertson Stadium on the

14) Wisconsin 3-0 783 after their lease with the how the guys stepped up and Houston linebacker Wayne
Houston campus Saturday and

15} Colorado 3-0 714 Astrodome expired. filled in on the vacant spots -Hogers was proud of his 
overcame Texas humidity and

16) Arizona 3-0 684 "We'll go anywhere to play that is something that I am teammates after their follow­
Houston's aggressive defense football; the field is still 100 happy about. I am not going to up performanee against UCLA

17) Texas A&M 2-1 613 
for a 42-24 victory over the yards long," running back criticize anything." after last season's 66-10 loss to18) usc 3-0 604 

Cougars that extended the 

Jermaine Lewis said. "I The Bruins lost redshirt the Bruins.
19} West Virginia 1-1 538 Bruins' school-record winning probably haven't played before freshman Freddie Mitchell in "UCLA came in thinking they 20) Oregon 3-0 399 streak to 12. 

this small a crowd since high the first quarter after a 4 7-would have their way with us,"21) Viriginia Tech 3-0 304 It also gave the No. 3 Bruins 
school." yard kickoff return. Mitchell Rogers said. "After last year,22) Alabama 2-0 277 five straight victories over Lewis scored four suffered a broken left leg. we had payback on our minds,23} Air Force 3-0 155 Texas teams over the past two touchdowns but UCLA, favored "Freddie is a big playmaker and I think at the start they
seasons, including a 29-23

23) Notre Dame 1-1 155 by 27 112 points, had to work and obviously he's going to be underestimated us, thought
victory over Texas A&M in the

25} Missouri 2-1 132 hard for this one. missed," Toledo said. "The they would ride through us.
Cotton Bowl. They've also 

Bruins quarterback Cade players all knew that he had "They were dropping like
beaten llouston and Texas the McNown spent the day the broken leg, and I think flies from the heat but our past two seasons. 

scrambling away from the they were a little upset, but mistakes hurt us again." 
Wiley leads Buckeyes to victory 
Associated Press better if we would have mixed 
• ESPN/CoACHEs' PoLL it up. We would have had a COLUMBUS, Ohio better chance to win." 
1) Ohio State 3-0 1 ,538 In the end, there really was Last year, Jones took a 
2) Nebraska 3-0 1,451 no option against No. 1 Ohio punishing hit from Butkus 
3) Kansas St. 3-0 1 ,386 State. Award-winning linebacker 
4) Tennessee 2-0 1,326 "That was a good old rock Andy Katzenmoyer and the 
5) UCLA 2-0 1 ,324 'em, sock 'em football game," tackle turned the momentum 
6) LSU 2-0 1 ,214 coach John Cooper said after in Ohio State's favor. This his Buckeyes beat No. 21 time, the Big Kat was satisfied
7) Penn State 3-0 1 , 120 Missouri 35-14 and held the with a team-leading 12
8) Washington 2-0 1 ,069 
Tigers' option attack to a tackles.
9} Florida 2-1 1,041 
measly 211 yards on "Jones was the key to their
10) Virginia 3-0 960 
Saturday. "Our defensive offense and it was very
11) Florida State 2-1 915 
team played a great game." frustrating at times to catch
12) Georgia 3-0 840 
The offense wasn't bad, him," Katzenmoyer said. "You 
13) Syracuse 2-1 798 
either. Michael Wiley ran for have to play assignment
14) Wisconsin 3-0 719 a career-best 209 yards and football against him, but this 
15} Colorado 3-0 673 two touchdowns and Ohio game was to my liking." 
16} Arizona 3-0 558 State rolled up 531 yards. It's Missouri coach Larry Smith 
17} usc 3-0 549 just that some of the saw it differently. 
18} Texas A&M 2-1 491 Buckeyes had a hard time "We played hard and 
19} Virginia Tech 3-0 428 holding the football. determined, but we were First-half fumbles by looking for more than just
20} West Virginia 1-1 392 
quarterback Joe Germaine effort," Smith said. "It wasn't21} Oregon 3-0 325 and wide receiver David enough. It was a loss."
22} Alabama 2-0 295 
Boston set up both Missouri For the third straight game,
23) Air Force 3-0 151 
touchdowns, but Ohio State Wiley, a 6-foot, 198-pound
24) Missouri 2-1 129 
rebounded from a 14-13 junior, produced a career-best
25} Kentucky 3-0 96 
deficit to shut out the Tigers effort as he carried 24 times 
in the second half. and scored on runs of 21 
"We were our own worst yards in the first quarter and enemy early in the ball 12 yards in the fourth game," Cooper said. "We need quarter. The last Ohio State to secure the football. We'll player to run for 200 yards work on that." was Eddie George, who had 
The Buckeyes (3-0) also 314 yards against Illinois in worked out a second-half 1995. strategy to stop Jones, the 6-"With the holes they were
• • • • • • • • • • • • foot-1, 222-pounder who opening, I could have gone 

Tigers ahead 14-10 with 4:21 on fourth-and-1, he fumbled
ended up with 21 carries for inside or outside," Wiley said. 

left in the half. and the ball was recovered by90 yards -just 32 on 13 The Buckeyes, though, were "I saw the ball come out cornerback Ahmed Plummer.
carries in the second half. sloppy and sluggish through 

and saw it on the ground," Germaine directed a 10­
The passing game was no three quarters against the 

Posey said. "If you know my play, 75-yard drive that endedfactor -Jones was 6-of-11 Tigers (2-1), who are 0-8 
history of missing fumbles, in Wiley's12-yard run and
for 20 yards. And Devin West, against No. 1 teams. 

you know I had to slow down, Derek Combs added a 9-yardwho had a school-record 319 Boston, who caught nine pick it up and take it to the scoring run with 3:54 left. 
THATWASA yards last week, had 86 yards passes for 112 yards, fumbled house. It was a good feeling." The Tigers came into the

on 21 carries. the ball away after a 42-yard

GOOD OLD Early in the second half, game as 25-point underdogs
"When Corby was coming reception and it led to Jones' Wiley ran 29 yards to the but full of confidence. TheyROCK 'EM, down the line, he was going 10-yard TO run that tied the Missouri 29, and Joe felt even better at halftime.

to get hit," Cooper said of the game 7-7 early in the second

SOCK 'EM FOOTBALL Montgomery finished the Ohio State's opening drive
'' changes. period before a crowd of drive with a 6-yard run, ended with Wiley's 21-yard

GAME." Jones questioned the 93,269. 

putting the Buckeyes ahead TO run, and the Buckeyesdecision to stick with the run. With the Buckeyes ahead for good 21-14 after a were on the move again when"We ran the ball well, but 10-7, the Tigers took the lead 
-JOHN COOPER successful 2-point conversion. Germaine hit Boston for 42
you can't expect the guys up when Germaine, who was 19­

OHIO STATE HEAD COACH The Tigers then wilted yards to the Missouri 38. But
front to pound for 70 plays of-25 for 211 yards, fumbled under the Buckeyes' defensive Posey stripped the ball from

on Saturday's game against one of the best teams and cornerback Carlos Posey 

pressure. Jones brought his Boston, free safety Harold
against Missouri in the country," he said. "I scooped up the ball and ran 

team to the Ohio State 32, but Piersey picked it up and ranthink we would have done 65 yards for a TO. It put the after running for a first down 20 yards to the Ohio State 48. 



' Monday, September 21, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
FIRST ANNUAL 

JULIAN SAMORA LECTURE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FR. VIRGILIO ELIZONDO 
FOUNDER, MEXICAN AMERICAN CULTURAL CENTER; PROGRAM DIRECTOR, TV MINISTRY FOR THE ARCHDIOCESE OF SAN ANTONIO 
''GUADALUPE: MOTHER OF THE NEW CREATION'' 
TU.ESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
4:00 P.M. 

AUDITORIUM CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW IN LOBBY OF CCE 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
SPANISH MASS 

STANFORD KEENAN HALL (WITH SPANISH CHOIR) 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 
5:15P.M. 

FOLLOWED BY PICNIC 
ALL ARE INVITED 

"'·­
"'.:.. 
-------~------~ ---~~~----~----~

-·-­

NEED CASH? 
The Sports Department is currently accepting applications for copy edi­tors and pro­duction assis­tants. Both are paid positions. If interested, please call 
1-4543. 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
held scoreless at the hands of Rutgers goalkeeper Jonathan Conway. Defender Matt McNew recorded the only other shot in the 101:54 min­utes of play. 
The game was scoreless through regulation, as Irish goalie Greg Velho made seven saves in the first 90 minutes to keep it an even match despite the 13-4 shot differential in favor of the Scarl!'t Knights. The first overtime scenario for Notre Dame's weekend road trip would result in tlw team's first loss of the season, as Simon Forstnr's goal just under 12 minutes into period blew by Velho for thP win. Defenseman DavP BoutiliPr's pass from the left sidn to tlw box gave Forster his second shot and the game winnnr. 
With the win. HutgPrs improved to 2-0-0 in Big East play and moved the Scarlet Knights past the Irish in the conference. 
Two days later the Irish moved along the East coast to redeem themselves against Villanova, which hadn't won in three previous Big East games. 
Monday, September 21, 1998 
But the Wildcats played a close match all gamn as the Irish again sent the game into the fate of ovcrtimn. 
The Irish would not allow Walton to be blanked for his second-straight game, as he provided the sparks in over­time to give the Irish two points to travel back home with. The goal, his sixth, gives Walton his second game win­ner of tho team's four victorins and puts Notre Dame at 4-1-1 overall and 2-1-1 in tlw <·on­fnrenee. 
Thn Wildcats responded to the Irish by rwutralizing tlwir aggn~ssive attack. hitting 17 shots to Notrn Damp's I <J. Dave l:racalangia put Villanova on top latP in tlH' first half with a drivP from midfiPld that lanckd him a IS­yard shot that sailPd past VPiho. Tlw Irish w<m~ dPniPd a goal of tlwir own in the first as Wildcat goalk<'<'IJI'r Matt Malek mad<' l"ivn of his nirw saves in the first. 
M cN nw w o u I d s e t up t lw equalizer for midfieldPr Conor LaHose at 71:24 for his first collegiate goal ofT a dirnct kirk that McNew s1mt to LaHosP. 
Notre Danw, with fiw points 
in the Big East, returns to 
action at home next Saturday ·to play No. 11 St. John's. 

TI1ey're in touch, in transit and in demand ... on-site, on­line and on-the-move ... improving businesses, envi­
MEET WITH ERNST & YOUNG 

sioning future technologies and driving change ... think­
ing outside the box, designing solutions and delivering value to customers. 
ON CAMPUS 

TI1ey're Ernst & Young management consultants, and
University of Notre Dame 

they're going places-making a global impact in one of 
the most dynamic fields of the 90's and beyond.
Engineering Career Fair 9/23 

As an Ernst & Young management consultant, you'll help companies from Fortune 1,000 giants to Silicon Valley start­
Interview 10/7 
Interview 10/8 

ups explore new strategies, methods, markets and tech­nologies -long before others are even aware they exist. 
Of equal importance, while you're learning and achiev­mg, we'll put all the strength of our industry-leading orga­
St. Mary's College 
Interview 10/7 

nization behind your own career development. With 13,000 consultants delivering ideas and solutions from 89 offices worldwide, we provide an unparalleled world of resources and the opportunity to grow and learn with a proven leader in today's business. 
For consideration, please forward your resume to your University Career Center, or: EY Careers, Dept. 10441, 113 Terrace Hall Avenue, Burlington, MA 01803; FaxToll free to Dept. 10441: 1-877-4EY-JOBS; or E-mail: dept.10441®eycareers.com. Please be sure to indicate the department number on your cover letter and resume for routing purposes. Please visit our web site at: http://www.ey.com. No 
S!/ ERNST&YOUNG LLP 

Errut & Young LLP, an equal opportunity employer, values r.he divcrs!ly of our work force mul r.he knowledge of our people. 


BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
DENISE AND I 5TARTED PETER, oK J:oR ME To 6E.T AN 
MoM, DAD. WoULD li BE. 
DATINo EXACTLY oNE YEAR THAT'S SO ADVANCE. oN MY ALLoWANCE? 
1'\C:,o THIS WEEK AND I SWEET... 5o 
WANTED To GET HER AN THOUoHTfVL. WHAT FoR~ ANNIVERSARY 61FT. So RoMANTic.; 
I I 
SCOTT ADAMS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Kicker's object 59 French revenue 1 Ginger 33Hol 
60 Planet's center 
61 Crop fungus10 Old coin of Italy 34 Floor 

62 Some John Constable 15 Evenhanded 36 Some 

16ldentified as pollutants paintings
11 Produced 39 Keen 18 Place of 43 Drop the ball worship 
44 Fisherman's DOWN 19 Barely beat equipment 20 Deified spirits of 
1 Honey. for one 

45 Drafted ancient Rome 2 September
46 Lets have it 

21 Diamond occurrence 
481t's made in 

preservers? 3 Profess 
balls22 Ghost writer? 

4A.T.M. entry
49 Cesar Romero 

24 Mercedes-Benz 5 Twosomerole
model designation 
50 Means of 6 Goose egg support 1 Dark. to Donne

25 K1nd of support 55 Before now 8 Pivot 
27 Tennis shot 
30 "--me ae 56 Tie the knot 9 Goes down spark o' Nature's 57 Kind of 10 Weight lifter's fire"· Burns treatment move 
11 Power-seeking clique ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Offense 
13 Throw away 

S T A R M A N B I G M E S S 
14 Trip

T S A R I N A 


EMANDS  23 Informants, in 8-=+.::+.:::-F.+.=:-B slang  32 They're sometimes  42 Lowers 44 Coarse, as  52 Mystery writer Buchanan  
24 Bar  struck  language  53 First-rate  
-...:o+::+;+::=-! 26 System that connects computers: Abbr.  33 Noise that annoys 35 Captain's heading  47 Melee 50 Eye part 51 Italian well  54 French brandy 58 0ld Philco competitor  
21 Black Sea resort --=-t=+:::+::-t=::-1 28 Basket ba II Hall-of-Farner  36 Lie, with "oneself" 37 Balladeer 38 Downhill actio•n  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (7511!: per minute).  
George  40 Sweet drink  Annual subscnptions are available for the  
~7+.-:+.:+.+.::-B 29 Tennis's  41 Open-shelved  best of Sunday crosswords from the last  
Agassi  piece  50 years: (800) 762-1665  

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: River Phoenix, Shelley Long, 
Barbara Eden, Gene Kelly 
Happy Birthday: Drastic measures 
will never solve any problems that 
you face. Back up and view your situ­
ation. You can tum things around, but 
you'll have to be methodical in order 
to do so. Plan your actions carefully 
and don't let others push you into 
making quick decisions. Time is on 
your side, so take advantage of it this 
year. Your numbeiS: 1, 14, 23, 30, 43, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's a 
great day to make changes. Rely on 
peers to help you get things done. 
Relationships will open up if you are 
willing to talk honestly about your 
desires. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
can do amazingly well if you present 
some of your creative projects to oth­
ers. You will drum up enthusiasm 
and interest in forming a business 
partnership if you discuss your ideas. 
00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't 
take any chances when dealing with 
those who reside under the same 
roof. You will find that they will not 
be willing to listen to any lame excus­
es.OO 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Romantic opportunities will develop 
through friends or relatives. Be open 
to meeting new people and willing to 
try new things. You've been living in 
the past too long. 0000 
LEO <July 23-Aug. 22): Make your 
moves. Higher paying job offers must 
be considered. You may like the peo­
ple you are working for, but money 
talks. Your need to live well should 
determine your dedsion. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: You u 
page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
be argumentative if you don't get your own way today. Your critical nature will cause discord with peers and relatives. Concentrate on self­improvement, not changing others. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be able to make changes to your home if you're willing to put in the work yourself. Plan to enlist the help of family members and make it a soda! affair. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Plea­sure trips will be worth your while. You'll be in a position to win points with your lover if you take them with you on your adventure. Passion will lead to a secure relationship. 0000 
SAGmARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's best to concentrate on your job. Dealing with loved ones will only make you depressed. You won't want to hear their complaints and you won't want to change your ways. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may be trying to undermine you. Be careful not to divulge too much about your personal life. You're likely to have problems while travel­ing. Proceed with caution. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Investments will pay off. You can do 
things that will benefit seniors in your 
family. Rewards for your unselfish 

.. 
acts will follow. Communication will 
be your strong point. 000 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): You 
may find yourself caught in the mid­
dle of a love triangle. Try to back up 
and avoid ruining your reputation. 
Romance is plentiful so don't pick on 
those already committed. 000 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
• 
-
Notre Dame vs. Stanford Ticket Exchange 
1\re you in need of a (ieneral Admission ticket? Go to the Jovce Center Ticket Office on September 22. 23, and 24 from 8:30 to 5:00. NO student~ must pay $16.50 and St. Mary's and Holy Cross students must pay $11.00 to exchange them. 'fou must come yourself with your signed booklet and your student 10. Sponsored by your Student Government. 




... 
... 
• VVoMEl\l's SoccEn 

Irish get back on track with conference wins 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team rebounded in a big way this weekend by blanking Rutgers on Friday night and shut­ting out Villanova yesterday afternoon. 
The Irish improved to 4-0 in the confer­ence and 6-1 on the season with this week­end's two dominating victories. 
"I think we came out and played well in the two games." said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We created chances and we fin­ished. It felt good to get some goals out there." 
The Irish offense exploded for 53 shots yesterday in the 5-0 win over the Wildcats. 
"Their goalkeeper [Janel Schillig] played a great game," said Petrucelli. "If it wasn't for her, I think we would have scored a lot more." 
Notre Dame was able to get five of those shots past her. however. Junior Jenny Heft scored her team-leading eighth goal of the season just 1:15 into the game to put the Irish up 1-0. 
Just before the 20-minute mark, Monica Gerardo inched closer to the school scoring record when the senior netted her 57th career goal and sixth of the season. She's chasing Cindy Daws mark of 61 career goals. 
Co-captain Jen Grubb closed out the first half scoring when she scored on a corner kick . 
"The keeper kept cheating to the back post," said Grubb. "So I was just trying to drive the ball to the near post." 

Grubb played it perfectly, hooking it right toward the near post. Schillig cheated once again and by the time she recovered, the best she eould do was catch the ball in the goal. 
The Irish owned the first half, outshooting the Wildcats 27-0 and enjoying a 7-0 advan­tage in corner kicks. 
Anne Makinen made her return for the Irish and had two second-half goals. 
The first of the two came at 56:31 when she knocked down a Grubb corner kick with her right foot and then unleashed a shot from inside the box. 
"She [Grubb] played a great ball," said Makinen. "It came right therewhere we practice it and I just hit it as hard as I could." 
Schillig couldn't get a hand on it and the Irish found themsleves ahead 4-0. 
At 63:17 Makinen struck again. The sophomore made it look easy, beating the defender and then slipping the ball past the goalkeeper and into the bottom left corner of the net. 
"It makes a big difference with her out there," said Petrucelli. "She's explosive. At anytime in the game, she can score a goal for us. We feel a lot better with her out there." 
The Irish defense was impenetrable. allowing just two shots on the afternoon. Freshman Elizabeth Wagner registered one save as she and LaKeysia Beene combined for the shutout. 
"It's hard to play against this defense," said Makinen. "It makes it a lot easier when 
see IRISH I page 19 


Irish split in Big East play 
Both conference 
matches head 
into extra period 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Sports Writer 
Overtime was the word for the weekend. 
Though the Irish would have preferred the word "sweep," they settled for a 2-1 win yes­terday against Villanova after losing a 1-0 decision to Hutgers on Friday. Both of the road contests for Notre Dame, ranked 16th in the nation, went to overtime. 
Despite last weekend's upsetting 2-2 tie at home against Pittsburgh and a week without any matches, the Irish were upended Friday night by a Scarlet Knights team that posted a 1-2-1 record. Far below their average of 16.5 shots a game, the Irish were held to just four shots and no goals in front of over two

.. thousand at Rutgers. Freshman forward Shane Walton accounted for three of the shots, but for the first time in his collegiate career was held scoreless at the hands of 
see SOCCER I page 22 


By MOLLY McVOY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's dropped a heart­breaker to Anderson University in double-overtime on Saturday. 
They played tough, but the Lady Ravens outlasted the Belles and won 3-2. This brings Saint Mary's record to 0-6 on the sea­son. 
Although they lost, it was an exciting and well-played game on both sides. 
"It was one of our best games so far," said head coach Robert Sharp of the Belles' performance on Saturday. 
Saint Mary's dominated early, outshooting Anderson 7-0 early on. They took a 1-0 lead on a goal by freshman mid-fieldr-r Melissa Wychocki with an assist from senior forward Katie Wagner. The Belles controlled the pace of the game and kept the ball at Anderson's end of the field early in the game. 
Both teams played very aggressively, and it was quite a defensive contest. Saint Mary's defense was led by outstanding performances by No. 9, sopho­more Laura Paulen and No. 8, senior Monica Cernanec. 
Despite the solid defense from 

vs Purdue Volleyballvs. Seton Hall 
Saturday, 1:30 p.m. vs. Calvin College 
October 2, 8 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
vs. Indiana
ATA 
Friday, 7:30p.m. 

Notre Dame lnviational Soccer 
vs. St. John's October 2, 3:30 p.m. vs. Franklin College 
Saturday, 7:30p.m. Thursday, 4 p.m. GLANCE 


