
Wednesday, April IS, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No;.-124 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Pendergast pleads guilty in point-shaving scandal 
ByPAULSUWAN "Mr. Pendergast has agreed to cooper­and Dewey Williams, 25, in connection Lee's arraignment was set for April 20. The Daily Norrhwestern ate fully with the government's investiga­with a scheme to fix three NU men's bas­After the arraignment, Pendergast was tion," assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick ketball games during the 1994-95 season. released on a $4,500 personal recog­
It was a gray, gloomy day outside, but Collins said. "We expect him to be one of Prosecutors estimated that between nizance bond. At the government's f'ednral prosecutors in the Northwestern our lead witness-$40,000 and request, his sentencing will be postponed point shaving scandal got just what they es at trial." $70,000 was until all trials in the case are over. wantnd inside U.S. District Court in Pendergast and 'MR. PENDERGAST HAS AGREED TO bet on NU Collins said Pendergast, a former kicker Chicago -the r.asp's 
,.------..., his attorney, games against for the Notre Dame football team, would
COOPERATE FULLY WITH THE GOV-

first guilty plea. Thomas Foran, the University normally face 15 months to 21 months in 
i\s exp1~ctnd. allngflCl left the Dirksen ERNMENT'S INVESTIGATION.' of Wisconsin, jail without a government recommenda­mastermind Kevin Federal Building Penn State tion for a reduction in sentence. Pendergast. 27. of' Los through a University and "We anticipate making a recommenda­Olivos, Calif.. pleaded restricted exit PATRICK COLLINS the University tion for downward departure," said guilty Thursday to onP and could not be ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY of Michigan in Collins, who will be the lead prosecutor. count of conspiracy to reached for com-February and "But that is dependent on several factors rommit sports bribPry, ment. March 1995 by Pendergast and a ring of -(Pendergast's) continued cooperation, according to the tBrms On March 26, Pendergast was indicted gamblers. his testimony at trial and his continuing
Pendergast

of a plea bargain along with Brian Irving, 27, and former Last Thursday, both Williams and agremnent. Wildcat players Kenneth Dion Lee, 24, Irving pleaded not guilty to all charges. see PLEA I page 4 
Civil suit names 
five former ND 


football players 
ByTIMLOGAN News Writer 
South Bend attorney John Rosinski named five former Notre Dame football players in a $1.4 million civil suit filed against eight people on behalf of Dominiack Mechanical, Inc., a local bus.iness. 
The company's owner, Jerry Dominiack, claimed that Lee Becton. senior Jarvis Edison, Derrick Mayes, Kinnon Tatum and Ray Zellars knew of and profited from Kimberly Dunbar's alleged misappro­priation of more than $1 million from Dominiack. 
Tho lawsuit comes two weeks after St. Joseph County prosecutor Michael Barnes officially charged Dunbar. a former employee of Dominiack, with two class C felonies for allegedly embezzling more than $250,000. 
"[The players! either partook in the conversion of, or profited from or knowingly 'participated in the distribution or use of these wrongfully converted proceeds," llosinski told the South Bend Tribune. 
"A great deal of evidence that we have available indicates that more than Miss Dunbar is involved in the taking of this money," he added, though did not disclose the aforementioned evidence. 
None of the defendants could be reached for com­ment. 
Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information at Notre Dame, said he knew of no con· nection between the players and the crime. 
"We were told [by the prosecuting attorney} that 
see LAWSUIT I page 4 
Free as a bird ... 



Huerta advocates rights of farm-workers, immigrants 

By LAURA PETELLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Dolores Huerta, Ms. Woman of the Year 1997, championed the rights of farms workers and spoke about her vision of the United States in her lecture last night in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Huerta is the co-founder and secretary-treasurer of United Farm Workers, a member Union of the AFL-CIO devoted to representing the interests of farm workers. 
"The biggest connection we have is with farm workers," Huerta said. "The people we connect with the most are the people who feed us everyday." 
"If you were on a desert island, who would you want with you -an attorney, an accountant, or a farm worker?" 
she asked the audience. The answer was a resounding "farm worker." 
"When you sit down to eat, give a special blessing for those that feed us -their work is the most sacred work of all," Huerta said. "Why should the people who do the most impor­tant work of all have no rights?" 
Huerta cited racism as one of the primary factors in the denial of rights to farm work­ers. 
"We are never taught in our schools the contributions of the colored and women in our soci­ety," she said. 
"Whose land are we sitting on? Native Americans'. Have we ever paid them for the land? Have we ever thanked them for the land? They have the highest suicide rate, the highest poverty rate, the high­est infant mortality rate in our nation," she said. "The people who created the wealth have been locked out. We're still benefiting from the wealth that has been exploited." 
Huerta discussed the situa­tion of race relations and immi­gration in California. 
"It has not been the immi­grants who did anything wrong to the economy," Huerta said. "The anti-immigrant rhetoric is a diversion so we really won't question what goes on in our society. Immigrants pay seven times more in taxes than they get back in benefits." 
"They [the California legisla­tors] want to make it illegal to teach children in the language they understand," Huerta said, discussing the initiative against bilingual education in 
see HUERTA I page 6 


~­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Quit, don't 
•

sptt 
l'lr.ase don't call me 
in tlw next few days. 
I'm waiting for a very 
important phone call. 
I know-who's not? 
This is th1~ season of 
jobs and inwrnship 
announcenwnts. 
This phone call for 
which I am waiting 
will tell me whether 
or not I have eancnr. 
If I do. put away the 
violin; because it will 
have been. as is most oral cancer. self-inflict­
Pd. I will have gotten it from chewing tobac­
co. 
I clwwr,d for the lirst time when I was 12. 
For many, chewing is as much a part of the 
national past time as the hot dog. 
Unfortunately, for the last generation of 
ballplayers. now oral cancer is also a very 
intricate part of the game. 
Tlw picturr.s of this past generation of 
ballplaynrs bngan to hit the national media 
whnn I was almost 18. I stopped cold. Thcsr, 
pictures mad1~ the characters from "Mask" 
and "Man Without a Face" seem downright 
attractive. At least they had their wholr, 
faces; so I stopped cold. After six years. 
For those who say it is not possible. you 
must realize. you are weak. There is no other 
word for it. If you want to stop and you ean't, 
you arr. one thing. and one thing only. W-E­
A-K. Put all the exeuses away for an issue 
that is a littl1~ less important than your life. 
I was also weak over Spring Break. When 
working at a nightclub at home, I had idle 
time between the time the club opened and 
wlwn tlw patrons arrived en masse. I began 
to chew again. That may have bn1m the 
gravest mistake of my life. 
I ligured that after a few years oiT. I would 
fiH~I no addiction and not put myself' in dan­
gm· of any type of cancnr -that thn body 
would rid itself of any carcinogenic buildup. 
About a month ago I noticed a "bump" on 
my lip. I wanted it to go away. so I stopped 
dwwing. It may have been too late. 
A wenk like this will completely altnr your 
outlook on life. 
I think o1w of the funniest expressions 
around is whnn people say they "drank their 
face off." When a friend of mine -who quit 
dipping for lent-altered the saying to say 
lw "dww1~d his face off," the 1~xpression lost 
its humor for llll). Because I know he is right. 
lie is doing just that-chewing his face off. 
In one of my classes we are reviewing a 
work by llarlem Henaissancn-era author 
Jmm Toomer. Every time the professor says 
"Toomer." it sends a chill coursing down my 
spine, just like it did the first time I heard it 
at the hospital. 
Don't do this to yourself. If you don't have 
mwugh rPspect for yourself to quit, quit for 
those who love you; and if you have a friend 
who smokes. dips. or dwws, and you don't 
ask him or hPr to stop, then you deserve to go 
through this. too. 
If you need help. call mn. At a time of 
wnakrwss. we'll go for abner or a 
Quartnrdog. We'II talk about what this week 
is like. I'll show you the sear from where they 
took the Jawbreaker-sized tumor. I'll Sl)nd 
you pietures over e-m~til showing what you 
will look like in 20 years. Something. 
Anything. 
Just pleasn don't eall in the next fnw days. 
I'm waiting for a very important phone call. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 

Ihose ofThe Obseruer. 

•  TODAV's STAFF  
News Sean Smith Christine Kraly Kathleen O'Brien Sports Brian Kessler Viewpoint Ed Llull Scene Emmett Malloy  Dominic Caruso Jenn Zatorski Graphics Jon King Production Dan Cichalski Lab Tech Meaghan Kroener  
Thursday 62 48


Th< ( lb,<tV<r (USPS S?? 2-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday except during exJm and vJcarion period~. The Observer is a member of rhe A~!.od.ucd Prc!.!Jo. All rcproducrion righrs arc rescrvt'd. 

The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Tragedy, health risks influence changes in college wrestling 
ANN AHBOH. Mieh. 


months. For tlw rncomnwndations to 
Less than six months after tlw 
be mandatnd at the university and 
other institutions. the divisions' eham­
deaths of Michigan wrestler Jefferey 
pionship committees will havl' to
Heese and two other collegiate 
wrestlers, members of two NCM com­
approve the changes. 

mittees presented Monday ollieial rec­
The report was pres1)nted by the
MICHIGAN 

NCAA's Wrestling Buies Committ1~P.
ommendations to improve the safety of 

and tlw organization's 1:ompetitive
eollegiate wrestling. 
Most of the six recommnndations 
safeguards committee. 

"I'm very happy with evnrything that 
reaflirm ones enforced by the NCM in 
was donP, " said Michigan wrestling
January. They also mirror chang1~s ­
coach Dale Bahr. "Everything that was
including the banning of rubber suits, 
suggested by thn Big Tm1 and the uni­
self-induced vomiting and the use of 
them as best we can and certainly peo­

laxatives -made to the Miehigan versity to the NCAA was implnm1mtnd,
ple have to be aware that when they

wmstling program several months ago. and in some cases, it was taken PV!m
try to subvert roles and try to do things 

One of the changes include adjust­further. " 
to gain a competitive advantagl\ some­

ments to the sport's 10 weight classes. The rncomnwndations com1~ at the
times they may endanger their health

NCAA ollieials said they were made to end of a school yPar marked by tragedy
in the process. " said Bryan Smith, a

reflect the curnmt pooi of high school at the university and throughout tlw
member of the Committee on

seniors entering collegiate wrestling. as college wrestling world. 
Competitive Safeguards and Medical

opposed to wrestlers entering the sport Heese. a Kinesiology junior, died Dec.
Aspects of Sports. 

when the dasses were originally set. 9 al'ter working out in 1~xcess to slwd
The recommendations are being for­

"We've already had three deaths in pounds to qualify for a lower weight
warded to the NCAA's championships

this sport and we're trying to prevent class.
committees for approval in the coming 

• BROWN UNiVERSITY 
University, group change labor conduct 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

Monday. after several months of negotiations with the Student Labor Allianee (Sl-A). Brown University passed a code of conduet guaranteeing that all Brown University apparel sold in the Brown Bookstore will be produced under safe labor conditions. Members of the SLA hailed the Brown initiative as the lirst code of its kind to institute greater protections for women workers. union organization, greater environmental preservation and the creation of a more encompassing system of wages and benefits for workers. The university is also expected to hire an independent monitoring agency that will investigate the working conditions of all factories manufacturing university apparel. Brown will shoulder the costs for the monitoring team with other universi­ties. "We are very pleased," said Daniel Massey, a mem­ber of SLA. 
• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 
University lawsuit loses a defendant 
GAINESVILLE. Fla. 

Despite losing one of its defendants due to an unex­pected car accident, the defamation lawsuit against the University of Florida's oldest leadership honorary and one of its members continued Monday as the plaintiff rested his case and the defendants began theirs. Peter Vlcek, the 42-year-old Florida Blue Key member accused of posting campaign fliers that portrayed the plaintiff UF graduate student Charles Grapksi as a child molester, was removed as a defendant in the case fol­lowing a Thursday morning car aceident that left him with a minor heart attaek and head injuries. "In the meantime, the case will continue against Florida Blue Key and Mr. [John] McGovern," Senior Fifth Circuit Court Judge John W. Booth said, explaining to the jury that Vlcek could be tried again later. UF law professor Joe Little. representing Grapski, said he "most proba­bly" will pursue a case against Vlcek later. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Students are sanctioned for harassment 
CAMBHID<;E, Mass. 
Six male Harvard Business Sehool (IIBS) studPnts have 
been ollicially sanetioned more than 1 R months after the 
lirst allegations of sexual harassment wen) brought against 
them. The harassment included notns sent during classes. 
unwelcome physical contact and violations of' privaey. 
According to a memo distributed to tlw IIBS community by 
the Faculty and Staf'f Standards Commitl!H) [FSSCI "thnsP 
behaviors seriously interfered with the ability of otlwr stu­
d(mts to learn." The victims include both mains and linnall~S. 
The disr.iplined students wem rnembnrs of the sanw section. 
a group of about SO studm1ts that work elosely togPllwr on 
projects while at IIBS. The notes focused on individuals and 
were of a sexually explicit nature. "They would comnwnt on 
these individuals pnrsonally. making rornmnnts about what 
behaviors they might engage in, bnhaviors of a prPtty sala· 
dous sort," said IIBS Dean Kim Clark in the Boston Globn. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAliFORNIA -BERKELEY 

Officials probe 'roofies,' possible rape 
BEHKELEY. Calif. 
According to Berkeley police, a 22-ymtr-olcl UC Bnrknlny 
student was likely the victim of a rapP early Sunday morning 
al't!lr attending a birthday party near campus. Tlw UC 
Berkeley student was found nearly nud1~ in a hallway outsidn 
the party wnaring only a brassiere, after leaving tlw ewnt 
with a man who later eanw back alonn. BnrkPIPy policn 
Capt. Bobby Miller said there is not ynt any conclusivn nvi­
dencn indicating the victim was rap1~d. But BPrkelPy polk!) 
are investigating the incident as a rapn until tlwy havn inliJr­
mation proving otherwisn, he said. A mndieal examination 
was pnrlill'med on the woman to check for nvidnnce of sexu­
al aetivity. as well as the presence of tho so-cal ~Pel "datn­rape drug," Hohypnol, more commonly rdnrrnd to as 
"roolies." The drug Hohypnol can be dissolvnd into a JWr­
son's drink without their knowledg1~. Victims of the drug ran 
become uneonseious and sull'er memory loss. similar to that 
displayed by the UC Berkdey student on Sunday. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 5 Day South Hend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 15. 

Acl:uWcather®forel'ast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H L 
~­
~­

Friday ~ 52 37 Saturday ~( 54 35 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1998 AccuWealher, Inc 
Pressure 

H L B [SI !Til 0 . ~ 8 {) ~~
Sunday ~ 55 36 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta AssoctaltJd Pross 

Atlanta 72 59 Columbus 72 58 Miami 83 72 Austin 86 57 Dallas 82 56 New York 65 53 Baltimore 74 53 Denver 42 24 Orlando 84 64
4,9,~9-c@Q ~ ~ ~ 
Boston 54 45 Hartford 64 45 Phoenix 68 48
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Camden 70 53 Memphis 78 61 Seattle 58 40
Via Associated Press Graph1csNet 

~ 


. 
Wednesday, April 15, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Selig addresses MLB's expansion, growing markets 
TIX GO ON SALE FRIDAY THE 17TH 

By DAN CICHALSKI 
Senior Sra!fWriter 
Allan "Bud" Selig, Major L11ague Baseball's interim com­missioner and president and C E 0 of the r-----::=-----, Milwaukee Brewers, presented his ideas on the prP.sent and future of baseball and sports in America yes­terday in the College of Administration's Auditorium. 
The current state of America's national pastime ­and of all sports, really -can be traced to an arbitrator's decision in December 1975. Like Jim "Catfish" llunter the year before, Andy Messersmith and Davey McNally were ruled free agents just before Christmas that year, and were no longer bound to their cur­rent teams. making them able to sign with any club. 
"Ba5eball would never be the same," Selig said. "The reserve clause had been tested various times in the '40s and '50s, but had stood the test of time to that point." 
Hunter went from the Oakland Athletics to the New York Yankees. In the wave of free agents that followed during the decade. other players moved around too, like Reggie .Jackson. who also signed with New York. 
"There was much concern about the disparity between markets. that the best free agents would all go to the teams 


Selig 
Business Jordan 



9am-4pm 108 Lafun 
4 ids per senior Great America (Saturday) Cubs Trip (Sunday) 
Class Formal 
(Wednesday night 
® Century Center) 
Taste of Chicago <tu~~~~~ip) 
with the most money," Selig said. "That was a huge change right off the bat. Reggie Jackson went to the Yankees. The Brewers wanted Sal Banda, and we eventually did sign him as a free agent, and now he's our general manager. 
"Baseball tried to adjust to a new era. That's frankly what this has been about," added Selig. 
Since the changes in the '70s, the makeup of professional sports has continued to shift. A team's city and surrounding area are now big factors in how much money it can generate and which players it can afford to acquire. 
"It used to be the size of the market didn't matter," Selig said. "My all-time hero is Joe DiMaggio. 
With  DiMaggio,  Ted  'BASEBALL AND SPORTS CHANGED AS  will get $125 to $140 mil- TV ratings were up 40 percent.  
Williams, Stan Musial, there was a permanence,  THE REST OF THE WORLD DID, VERY  lion from the top six." A more permanent end  It was the electricity in the bali­park, the excitement every­ 
a stability to baseball and DRAMATICALLY.'  to the financial disparities  where. People just loved it.  

sports that many genera­tions grew up with." 
Now that permanence has vanished, nothing is guaranteed to hang around anymore. The longest labor dispute in any sport shut baseball down from August 1994 to March 1995. Teams are demanding new publicly-financed stadiums and threatening to move if they do not receive them. Some teams are spending money to no end to buy themselves a winning roster. 
"Baseball and sports changed as the rest of the world did, very dramatically," Selig said. "In sports what you have is faith and hope and on_March 31 every year, you have to make sure your fans have that feeling 


SENIOR WEEK 
their team can win." 
At least those fans who still come out to the ballpark. But Selig hinted that the grudge held by fans since the strike may almost be gone. 
"In 1949, the greatest year all three New York teams had, they drew 5.2 million people," explained Selig, who once hoped to become a history pro­fessor. "In 1993 the Colorado Rockies drew 4. 7 million. In the days baseball enjoyed its great­est popularity, teams drew 13,000 fans a game. This year we have a chance for the all­time attendance record even without the two expansion teams. We could reach 70 mil­lion people. Last year the minor 
will come down to "Three-fourths of the crowd restricting how much at Wrigley field for the first BUD SELIG teams spend in building Brewers-Cubs game was from MLB INTERIM COMMISSIONER their potential World Wisconsin. The crowd was just CEO, MILWAUKEE BREWERS Series champions. going wild. I was at home lis­
leagues broke their record with 34 million and expect 34 to 35 million this year. We could have 100 million people attending baseball games this year." 
And for those 100 million fans who just might make it out to the ball game, Selig said the recent changes -which have all been for the good of the game -are not all that will come. There will be more struc­tural changes, perhaps more expansion and further realign­ment. But, Selig stressed, the most important changes will be economic. 
"Nobody understands as well Selig said, prefacing his com­as I do how painful the labor ments about the three-division conflicts have been," he said. format. "The so-called purists "But what you don't want to were outraged because we happen is that in the World were changing a social institu­Series and playoffs, you don't tion that was resistant to want the highest payroll teams change. But today there isn't to be there every year." anybody that would change 
The solution to this high pay-what's been done." roll problem will be revenue lnterleague play, though, sharing, Selig said. Smaller-drew just as much criticism. market teams will benefit from But Selig was excited from the the profits of teams in larger start. areas, enabling them to com-"In 1948 I heard Hank pete financially for the star Greenberg and Bill Veeck talk­players. ing about interleague play, so 
"Revenue sharing is one thing this isn't an entirely new idea," all sports will need," Selig said. he said. "When we approved it "We need to be competitive. It's in January 1996 in Los Angeles, not like any other business, you I was so happy. I'll never forget need teams to be competitive. It how great I felt about that. It will take three to four wasn't that attendance at the years to complete. Next games was up 23-and-a-half year's bottom six clubs percent last year. It wasn't that 
"Labor peace will be tening to the game on the radio, about cost restraint -in the and I couldn't hear Bob Uecker NFL and NBA they call it the because the crowd was so loud. salary cap," Selig said. "We're I watched the Dodgers-Angels going to need some type of spe-games that were just as excit­cific cost restraint in all sports. ing. They were so excited, they We need to maintain that com-fought the first night. The Mets­petitive balance." Yankees games were just like 
Restricted by a tight schedule, the Dodgers-Giants games." Selig concluded his prepared • But Selig, who describes him­remarks with some comments self as a traditionalist when it about the changes that have comes to these changes in the already been made, specifically sport, emphasizes that baseball the divisional realignment, the will be better off once these addition of wild card teams in changes have been completed. the post season, and inter-"We've changed a social insti­league play. tution and it's for the better," 
"I don't ever forget criticism," he said. 
$37 $20 $8 $10 
Get there early•••events WILL sell out 
plus the debut of new class shirts 
Questions? Call 1-5225 


page 4 The Observer •· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 15, 1998 

See news happening? Call The Observer@ 1--5323 


AMNESTY INTERNAJIONAL 
AWARENESS:~WEEK 

Gran,n,y nondnee 
1\ 



DiFr'an 

Lawsuit 
continued from page 1 
tlwre was no evidence linking players to the embezzlement," he said. 
llosinski told the Tribune that he named those five play­ers because they appeared to have the closest relationships with Dunbar, based in part on the frequency with which she mentions their names in her diary. Also, Dunbar has a 2­year-old daughter with Edison. 
The NCAA Investigation 
Thn National Collegiate Athletic Association is now investigating claims that Dunbar. Dominiack's former bookkeeper. us1~d stolen funds to purchase pla111~ tickets, jew­elry and tickets to high-priced sporting events for 12 former and current Notre Dame foot­ball players, including the five named in the suit, between 1993-98. 

The University learned of the gifts and reported them to the NCAA on Feb. 23, and fol­lowed up with an internal investigation. The University said its search, a report of which was sent to the NCAA, revealed the gifts violated no regulations, and the players had no involvement in any ille­gal activities. 
"It seemed clear that the players understood [these pre­sents1 as gifts from a friend," said Moore. "They had no idea of the source of the gifts." 
The new lawsuit is unlikely to have any immediate impact on the ongoing NCAA investi" gation of the incident, accord­ing 'to NCAA Director of Enforcement Mark Jones. 
One possible ramification would be a lengthening of the investigation process, as some • of the parties involved may refuse to make a statement until legal proceedings are over. 
"If we need information from an individual, it's possi­ble they could be advised by their lawyer not to talk to us until the civil matter is com­pleted," Jones told the Tribune. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

Plea 
continued from page 1 

to work with the FBI and NCAA to help deter gambling on col­lege campuses." 
Collins said it was still too early to discuss whether Pendergast would face jail time, noting that the final sentencing decision rests in the hands of Judge Charles R. Norgle, Sr. 
One unique aspect of the plea bargain is an agreement by Pendergast to work with the FBI and NCAA for up to five years on "any and all programs designed to educate and inform students, athletes and others of the risks and dangers associated with various forms of gambling," the plea agreement said. 
Pendergast woulq be involved in, without limitation, "live speaking appearances, video­taped interviews and presenta­tions to individuals and groups." 
"We want to get (the program) going right away," said Mark Vogel, deputy chief' of the U.S. Attorney's organized crime divi­sion. "I think that (Pendergast) is going to add a cn~dibility fac­tor. 
..,A:..UIIDAY 
IWtert Pelton, C.S.C. Speaa on til• US School of the Americas. 
117 DBR!_7=Q\PM. 


1S:WEDNIIDAY' 
Petition Driv." 
NDH/SD 
4-16 :THURSDAY PEAqP$f SPRING CONCEIT! 4-9pm 
Fieldhouse Mall: Hemp Jewelry, tie dye, soft drinks, and FOUR bands! 

Tickets sTill I 
available at the door 01' Lafortune Info De$k (611-81281 ; $15 with KD/St'AC/~CC ID ' $1~ General P'ub\\c 

Wednesday, April 15, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRiEFS 
State will not punish brothers in sexual assault 
DALLAS 

Two brothers cannot be punished for their confnssnd roles in the sexual assault of a 3­year-old girl because they arc under age 10, but an 11-year-old boy could face up to 40 years in prison, officials said Tuesday. The boys took the girl from a van outside her home to a neighborhood creek, where she was stripped and beaten with a brick on Thursday, said police Lt. Bill Walsh, head of the child exploitation unit. All three attempt­ed to have sexual intercourse with the girl and then dragged her down a concrete aqueduct, Walsh said. Under Texas law, the brothcrs. agns 7 and 8, cannot be held responsiblP for their alleged actions because of their age. They are expected to testify against thc older boy, Walsh said. 
Amnesty International reports massacres by Myanmar army 
BANGKOK. Thailand 

The Myanmar army has tortured and killed hundreds of ethnic Shan villagers in the last two years and forced at least 300,000 to flee their homes. Amnesty International said Wednnsday. Children, elderly people and Buddhist monks WP-re among the victims, the London-based human rights group said in its report. "Witnesses described the most horrif­ic methods of killing, ineluding beating and kicking to death. stabbing, smashing heads in, bt~ing burnt alive, pouring boiling water over the victim's body and shooting," the report said. The military regime in Myanmar, which also is known as Burma, replied that Amnnsty lntnrnational had become a plat­form for fabrications and exaggerations by Myanmar dissidnnt groups to discredit the government. 
4,000 Iranians protest arrest of mayor 
TEIIHAN. Iran 

Hiot police swinging clubs dispersed 4,000 peopln demonstrating Tuesday in support of Tdmm's mayor, whose jailing has turned into a showdown between hard-liners and moder­ates in Iran's Islamic government. About 300 riot police broke up the rally outside Tehran University near the center of the capital. Witnesses said about 30 protesters were arrested, but police refused to comment. Fistfights also erupt'ed between supporters and opponents of the mayor, Gholamhossein Karbaschi. There were no serious injuries, and police quickly quelled the clashes. Karbaschi was arrested April 4 on the orders of the hard-line chief judge, Mohammad Yazdi. Prosecutors have accused him of mis­appropriating public funds, but in a ruling establishment rifp, with corruption, the reformist mayor has a relatively clean image. 
Dow 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1843.03

9110.20 
+18.08 
NYSE: 
581.31 
~ 
+3.54 
S&P 500: 
Composite
u 
1115.75 Volume: +97.90 +6.06 738,379,870 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

fUMI'~:S} llfhl H "pj II ~:Sid S ~ i ·~I:S I'IH~ I 
CANTI.RBURY I~FO  CITI  126.0tl  0.906  1.625  
OIS tWT!Ct\1. IMAti  OVON  100.00  1.06:l  Z.IZS  
:\F:JTF.R DltiJT,\L  i\E'IT  67,57  1.56:l  3.R75  
MI:-.I'NF.SOTA 1\RFWI~ti  \t!HI~W  M.29  1.125  Z.R75  
tiSF. SYSTEMS IM"  tiSE..'i  SR ..U  l..ll.l  3.563  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

LEAP <iROUP INC LEAP JS.J9 2.375 -!.:us CYTYC COIU' CYTC J.J.S.J R.:l7.1 15.R75 KOO TRAVEL SY-WT lr:LYW 26.67 0.750 2.()6] STV GROUP 1:-.::C STVI 25.•14 2.9:lR 8.563 OCCUPATIONAL II k. R OIIRI 22.22 1.000 :~.500 


Clinton, panel discuss race in sports 

AFP Photo 

President Bill Clinton, seated between New York Jets' wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson (left) and former Cleveland Browns' running back Jim Brown (right), motions during a discussion of race relations in sports in America televised on ESPN last night. 
The show, titled "A Conversation With the President," was filmed in Houston, Texas. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
HOUSTON 
Giving a sharper focus to his national dialogue on race, President Clinton on Tuesday urged Americans to look to the world of sports as an example of how individuals of differ­ent races can join in a common effort. 
"It is important that people see that in athletics in America that the rules are fair, that people get their fair chance," Clinton said in leading off a 105-minute nationally televised dis­cussion on the role of race in sports. 
An avid fan of college basketball and major professional sports, Clinton is well versed in sensitive issues like white dominance in coaching and sports team ownership. He said that if professional sports wants more minority coaches but cannot find them, "then there's something wrong with recruitment." 
The meeting, broadcast live on ESPN, was the second of Clinton's three planned nationally televised town hall meetings on race. The first was in Akron last December. 
The 11-member panel discussed 
several topics but returned often to the relative shortage of minorities in top sports management jobs. Georgetown University basketball coach John Thompson said blacks mu!jt be given more opportunities, even if they are not seen as sure-fire successes right away. 
Joe Morgan, a member of baseball's Hall of Fame, said baseball has made only small progress. While noting that some of the greatest players in base­ball history are black, "once they're finished, there is no place for them to go" in the sport business, he said. 
Clinton said he was optimistic that talking about race in the context of sports can help the nation deal with broader racial issues. 
"America, rightly or wrongly, is a sports crazy country," he said. "And we often see games as a metaphor or symbol of what we are as a people." 
Black men have found enormous success in American sports. Many of the best marketed and highest paid professional athletes, such as basket­ball's Michael Jordan and baseball's Ken Griffey Jr., are black. Yet certain glamour positions, such as quarter­back in professional football, are dominated by whites. 
Latinos are making a growing impact in major league baseball, where they comprise 24 percent of all players, compared with 17 percent for blacks, according to Northeastern University's Center for the Study of Sport in Society. 
The Houston program featured other sports luminaries: Keyshawn Johnson, a wide receiver for the New York Jets, and five-time Olympic medalist Jackie Joyner-Kersee. Also on the program were Carmen Policy, president of the San Francisco 49ers, and San Diego Padres owner John Moores. 
Policy said the National Football League, which has only three black head coaches among its 30 teams, is more aggressively addressing race issues. 
In Houston, the forum's makeup angered Latino activists who com­plained that too few Hispanics were represented. Felipe Lopez, a basket­ball star at St. John's University, was the only Hispanic on the 11-member panel. 

Virginia execute_s Paraguayan man 
AssociATED PRESS 
A Paraguayan man who stabbed a executed Tuesday night despite State Madeleinl;l Albright and ·Court that the sentence be 
The 15-member United Nations Tribunal ruled last week. that the exe­cutioi:i should be blocked because Virginia authorities failed to notify Paraguay of Angel Francisco Breard's arrest. as reqUired by an. international treaty. the Vienna Convention. 
Breard, 32, was executed by injection shortly after Gov. Jim Gilmore refused 
therefore lost his right to raise that issue in federal court. Breard was noti;nfonned of his right to seek help from JARRATT. Va. his countrY's embassy when he was atrested for the 1992 ·to death was murder and attempted rape of Ruth Dickie inArlington. 
SeQretary of Rulings by the V\forld Court are not binding. The court }}ad vvanted the e"~cution delayed While itsjudges decide if Breard deserved a. new triaJ. 
Albri~ht joined the debate Monday night, asking (filmpre:Jo .delay ~he eX:EifUtlon .. be(;ause !:)he was con­ce:rned that the case qpUld jeopardize the safety of Americans arrested in other countries.·· 
"The execution ofMr. Breard in the present circum­s~nces qould leadsome countries to conten.d incorrf)ctly that the U.S. does not take seriously its obligations under Albright the Convention," Albright wrote in a letter to Gilmore. 
... Albright said Tuesday that although Breard was con-
to stop the sentence fro:tll being carded out. yicted.of a heinous crime; she intervened. because "we 
Gilmore said delay of the execution "would ha.ve the need to make clear there are foreign policy aspeCts." practical effect of transferring responsibility from the .. Gilmore had said he shared Albright's concern about courts of the commonwealth and the United States to the ••the·safety of Americans abroad, but "I'm also concerned International ~QtlrV' ....·. .. . · . .. }!h; •·•··· , . ~bout tlj.e. safety gf the people of Virginia. ,.{ People .are 
Earlier in the. day the U.S.·Supreme Court; ina 6+4 deci-..·..·¢ntitledto knowtbeywill be safe in their homes.~ sion, also refused to block it. In Tuesday'fiunsignedopin~ Both Virginia's attorney general and the U.S. Justice ion, the Supreme Court said Breard fail~d to assert his Depa recoll}ll1ended to the Supreme Court thatthe 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
------------------------------------~~~~~.~~~~--------------------------------~~~-----­

Notre Dame leaders recognized at awards dinner 
Observer Staff Report 
Firteen students. one profes­sor and one administrator wnre rneognized last night at the 12th annual student lead­ership awards dinner. 
Matt Szabo, who served this was what put us over the top." 
David Prentkowski. director of Food Services, also received the Irish Clover Award. 
"This is quite an honor," Prentkowski said. "I can't imagine being recognized by a better group than the one you 

at Notre Dame has served as a Counseline volunteer, complet­ed a Summer Service Project in her hometown, and worked in the Start Turning Around Teens program. 
Margot O'Brien, a business law professor, received the 
Frank O'Malley Award, given to a faculty member who demonstrates a commitment to excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Said the anonymous student who nominated her, "She has transformed a subject that I absolutely detestfld into onn of the most worthwhile coursns at Notre Dame." 
Student Leadership Awards, honoring students who best exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame, were given to 12 indi­viduals. 
year as the senator from Morrissey llall. was one of two recipients of the Irish Clover Award. given annually by stu­dent governnwnt in recogni­tion of outstanding servh:e to the students of Notre Dame. 
Noting that Szabo had run against him a year ago for the presidency, student body pres­ident Matt (;rirtin said in pre­senting the award. "Matt Szabo has probably accom­plished more on his platform as a student senator than !stu­dent body vice president] Erek INassl and I did as vice presi­dnnt and president." 
Szabo, who chaired the resi­dence life committee for Student Senate, credited his fellow committee members for the accomplishments of the committee this year. 
"The lire and the energy was all in the senators who were excited and wanted to get involvfld," he said. "That really 
serve." Andrea Hay, a Pasquerilla East senior, received the John 
W. Gardner Student Leadership Award, presented to a senior who "-exemplifies the ideals of the University through outstanding volunteer service beyond the University community," according to the award's description. 
Hay has completed two Summer Service Projects through the Center for Social Concerns and done service work in Appalachia, Florida, Mexico and Washington, D.C. She also works in the CSC office. 
Annette Henderson, a McGlinn Hall senior. received the Hev. A. Leonard Collins Award, given to a senior who "has made a substantial per­sonal effort to advance the interests of the students at Notre Dame." 
Henderson in her four years 


WANTED 15-20 PAID STUDENT CALLERS 
Students looking for a part-time summer job that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalf of the Generations Campaign. 

REWARD: 

TRAINING, DAY/EVENING HOURS, $5.95/HR 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY Stop by the Development Phone Center (Third Floor, Grace Hall) Thursday, April 16 (1 0-12 am) Friday, April 1 7 (2-4 pm) 
QUESTIONS? GIVE US A CALL: STEVE CAMILLERI 63 7-724 7 HAP DURKIN 63 7-7938 

Huerta 
continued from page I 
California public schools. "I call this the prison preparatory program. What are !the stu­dents! going to do if they don't understand what's going on? They're going to drop out." 
"Spanish should be a required language for every­body." II uorta said. The state­ment was greeted by applause and cheers from the audiencn. 
Huerta then discussed the situation of women and rninori­tins in the U.S. government. Sho eited statistics that women make up 52 percent of tho U.S. population, but only 11 p1~rc1mt of Congrnss as a wholn and 5 percent of the Sonate. 
"At tho rato we're going. how long will it take us to get gon­der and ethnic equality in our Snnatn?" she askPd. "Almost :~00 ynars. Are wn willing to wait that long?" 
Thn audiPnc1~ answered with a chorus of "No!" 
"We cannot havn a democra­ey un.!oss WI~ havo :epr~.~se.nta­t lllll • II u e r t a sa1d . It s a rnsponsibility we have to take. We should not wait to be invit­
t~d." 
· Huerta then speeilically dis­cussod tho position of women in society and political dis­
• course. "In our socinty, we the women are supposed to be the support system for the men," she said. "Women are not ser­vants. We are not sex objncts." 
"Wo do not want to say we arc morn than men; we do not want power over them," she said. "Wn want to help mnn ­wn want to make them inde­pendent so they don't have to · depend on women. We want to the people to be the most respected," Huerta said. 
"We become professionals to serve the working people. We're not better -we're lucky." 
"The question is, what can I do with my life to make the world a better place?" she said. 
Huerta discussed some of the problems farm workers face when attempting to organize, including terror tactics, physi­cal attacks, and the refusal of the companies to negotiate with their workers. 
"We have to make things hot­ter using our collective strength," she said. 


If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may
make men strong by making 
be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education
then1 independent." 
courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour.
"As we sit here tight now, somewhnre a woman is getting 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just
beaten up. a woman is getting killed, because thorn's still the 
to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student nwntality out tlwrf' that a man 
housing is available* owns a woman." lluerta said. "When a woman is liberatlld, 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more. knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. tho family is lilwrated. tho 
Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for +1101.) community is liberatnd, the 
the 1998 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. CBO!-'!-' nation is libnratPCI," she said. 
OlLLEC.E 
Hnturning to tlw problems of 

Session I -May 18 to June 25 Office of Admiss'"·''
thn worknrs. llunrta stressed 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame. IN 46556

*Session II -June 29 to August 6
the id1~a of rnspect. 
(219) 239-8400.ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 "We·n~ not taught to rnsp1~et 
*On-campus student housing availabiP far Session II only e-ma1l: hccadmis@gnn.com
working people, and these arn 
___________.J 
---~--­
--~-----~ 
page 7 

Wednesday, April 15, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 
Jenky to ordain two ND deacons at Basilica 
Special to The Observer 
This Saturday at 1:30 p.m., the Basilica of the Sacred Heart will be the center of religious prosperity as two deacons of the Homan Catholic Church will be ordained to the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
These two men are Hev. Mr. Gary S. Chamberland and Rev. Mr. Thomas 1'. Doyle. Both men will be ordained by Hev. Daniel 
H. Jenky, auxiliary bishop of the Ft. Wayne-South Bend dio­
c(~se. 
Hev. Chamberland. son of 

Haymond  and  Hita  
Chamberland. Jr..  of  
Englewood,  Fla.,  is  the  

youngest of seven children. Both his mother and father are 
retired and his six siblings live all over the country -Major Raymond Chamberland, III, of Edwards Air Force Base, Cal.; Terrence M. of Gt. Barrington. Mass.; Karen of Sheffield, Mass.; Kevin who lives in Baldwinsville, NY; Catherine Kellogg, also of Gt. Barrington; and Brian who lives in Canaan. Conn. 
Rev. Chamberland was born in New Marlborough, Mass., in 1962."He attended Dewey and Bryant Schools in Great Barrington, Mass., Searles Middle School and graduated from Monument Mountain Hegional High School in 1980. 
He fmtered the University of 
Notre Dame in 1980 and 
received a bachelor of arts 
degree in American Studies in 1984. Following graduation he served for one year as a Holy Cross Associate [lay volunteer program] in Portland, Oreg. After receiving a master of divinity degree from the University of California at Berkeley, he spent two years teaching at a Catholic grammar school in nearby Alameda, CaL 

He then worked as a resi­dence hall director and adjunct theology instructor at the University of Portland from 1992-95 before returning to SouthBend. 
During formation he assisted at the South Bend Justice and Peace Center; Penrose Hospital, Colorado Springs, Colo.; Kaiser Hospital in Oakland, Cal.; Jubilee West in Oakland; Andre Ilouse in Phoenix, Ariz.; and 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A SPECIAL INVITATION 

Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 

r--------,

: 10%off : :--$-23--l :--$-4~--: :--$:35--l 
Aveda \ \ Cut & \ \ Color. Cut & \ \ Full Set of \ 
I I I 1 style. 1 1 1 
1 Retail : \ Style \ 11 One Process 11 \ Nails \ 
L--------~ L--------~ L--------~ L--------~ 
•Please call to schedule you appointment• 

r--------, 
:  $60  :  
I  I  
:  Hilites &  :  

l Cut & Style l 
L--------~ 
This offer good with the following stylists only:Roxann, Terina, Janelle, Stephanie 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. 
You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we 
will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 


Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires May 31, 1998 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N. Ironwood Drive •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel. 219-289-5080 
co-directed the Holy Cross Associates in Hayward, Cal. 
He is now a deacon at Christ the King Parish where he helps direct the confirmation, hap­tismal. and marriage prepara­tion programs. 
Father Chamberland will offer his rirst Mass of Thanksgiving at Christ the King Church on Sunday at 8:45a.m. He will offer Masses of celebra­tion of his ordination at St. Peter's Church on April 26 at 11 a.m., and at St. Raphael's Church on May 17 at 10:30 a.m. 
Second of five children, Rev. 
Doyle was born in Colville, 
Wash., in 1967. Son of Dr. W. J. 
and Donna Doyle, Rev. Doyle 
was baptized and confirmed at 
Immaculate Conception Parish. 
Hewillbece~bratingaMassof 
Thanksgiving there this 
Memorial Day weekend. 
Rev. Doyle's siblings also live 
in various parts of the country, 
and he has one sister, Katy, 
who lives in McConnachie Trail, 
British Columbia. His brothers 
Bill and Mike both live in 
Spokane and his other sister, 
Molly, is doing a year of volun­
teer service with the Holy Cross 
Associates' program in 
Phoenix. 
He attended Astor/Hofstetter 
grammar school and~graduated 
from Colville High School in 
1985 where he was student 
body president and awarded 
the Benchwarmers' scholar­
ship. 
He entered Notre Dame in 1985, graduating in 1989 with academic honors and a bache­lor of arts degree in philosophy. 
While an undergraduate stu­
dent at Notre Dame he worked 
with the Notr·e Dame football 
team, was president of Grace 
Hall, and served as student 
bocjy president during his 
senior year. After graduation 
he worked in Seattle, Wash. for 
Deloitte & Touche Management 
Consulting as a research and 
financial analyst before enter­
ing Moreau Seminary in 1991. 
During his time in formation 
he worked at St. Pius X Parish 
in Granger, Ind., Andre House 
in Oakland, St. Vincent DePaul 
Downtown Chapel in Portland, 
and the Center for Social 
Concerns at Notre Dame. 
At the conclusion of his semi­

nary training in 1996. he received a master of divinity degree from Notre Dame. He is now serving as the rector of Keough Hall and is director of ·the Unfversity's confirmatiun 
program. 
He will continue to serve at 
Notre Dame following his ordi­
nation. 
Father Doyle will offer his 
first Mass of Thanksgiving at 
the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
on Sunday at 11 :45 a.m. 
After the ordination liturgy, 
both men and their families will 
be honored at a reception in 
the LaFortune Student Center. 




Please Recycle The Observer 


In Love and Out of. Homosexuality 
i/As a lesbian, I found hurt people just wanting someone to love. As a Christian, I found loving people just wanting to heal my hurt." 

--Anne Paulk 
The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
John andAnne Paulk 
Five years prior to meeting each other, John and Anne Paulk dramatically embarked upon leaving their respective gay life­styles. Their quest for answers led them to Exodus International, the nation's oldest organization aimed at helping men and women overcome their homosexual desires. It was there that they met, became friends, fell in love, and eventually married in 1992. 
Since then the Paulks have shared their remarkable story of transformation extensively in national and international media, including Oprah, Good Morning America, ABC's World News Tonight, and most recently, in 
a segment that aired three weeks ago, 60-Minutes. 
John began a Christian ministry to help those who were searching for freedom from their homosexuality called the Portland Fellowship. Annebecame president of the Oregon affiliate of Exodus International. Recently, John was hired by Dr. James Dobson, and he now works for Focus on the Family. John and Anne spend much of their time raising their son Timmy, who was born in December of 1996. 
John and Anne will be at Notre Dame to tell their own stories of love and transformation. 

Wednesday, April15 Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 8:00 p.m. 
Co­


Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
VARSITY SHOP 
..... 
"SJJeciali:.ing in Authentic 
Notre /){/11/e SJwrl.\'1\'£'(//" •· (.Joyce Center) 

R~~/pp-~~c?-=­

"SJil'cio/ijng in ,.\uilll'nlic 


www.nu.edu/-recs ort 

Noire /)umc SJ1o/'I.\II'£'UI'" 

RecSports "Champion Student Award11 recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Joe Kerbleski is a senior Biology major from San Francisco, California and 
currently resides off-campus. He has been a two year captain of the 
Ultimate Frisbee Club and has been the club president for the past year. 
Joe helped lead the Ultimate Frisbee team to an undefeated Indiana I 
Illinois sectional title last spring and they hope to defend their title this 
year in their efforts to reach the National Tournament in Blaine, Minn~sota. 
Currently the team holds an 1 8-6 record and is rising through the top 2 5 
rankings with wins over #2 Colorado and #1 2 Brown. Joe is known for 
his incredible speed as evidenced by his Intramural championship in cross­
country as a freshman and by his claiming of the title "Fastest Ultimate 
Player" in Indiana this past fall. Joe has been involved in Intramural 
Ultimate Frisbee for three years and has been instrumental in having the 
women's Ultimate Frisbee team recognized as an independent club. 
Recipients receive CI:~ merchandise from the 




Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£~ 
~L~l-~~ z&l:..
merchandise courtesy of \..&..-..__...........,-...... and the vit'io; located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 



s&r.. 

VARSITY SHOP . M d s d 1 1 0 0 5 0 0 .
-..-1s open on ay-atur oy : am to : pm and Sunday 1:Q()r.~ to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
Wednesday, April 15, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 


Symposium will link religion, global security 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies will host an international sym­posium of theologians, histori­ans, social scientists and activists to examine the role of religion in warfare from tomorrow until Saturday. 
The symposium, entitled "The Sacred, the Sword and Global Society: Religious 

Dimensions of Violence, Peace and Security" will include wide-ranging discussions on the ways in which religious thought and action have come to affect policy debates about global peace and security in a 



PRIME 

SPACE FOR YOUR GRADUATIONDINNER 

./1 n;:·;~··· 

~ivina l'ool'n 

--dLOUNGE 

WITH RETRO 


OPEN GRADUATION "\;VEEKEND 
FRIDAY, ~fAY 15, 5-11P~f SATURDAY ~fAY 16, 5-11P~f SUNDAY ~fAY 17 :3-8P~f 

222 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND (219) 284-5200 
.\f>.J..\('E~'"T TO liE.\liTL.\::"1) · W"WW..\('EPL.\<'EH.('(l:\J/IIE.U.:TL.\~1) 




eastle1'oiot 
Apartments 

New Castle Point Seleet Units AvailaiJie for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
•Newly 
renovated, spacious, furnished, or un-furnished apartments •Designed specifically for the student 

•Special 
introductory rates available for a limited time •Includes membership in the new 


Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 
time when appeals to religious belief are conspicuously enlist­ed both to justify ethnic and nationalist violence and to defend human rights and build peace. 
All symposium events will take place in the auditorium of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education and are all free and open to the public. 
Karen Armstrong, author of the recently published book, "Jerusalem: One City, Three Faiths," will open the confer­ence with a lecture on "Religious Narratives of Violence and Peace" tomorrow at 7 p.m. 
Many discussions will take place on Friday, led by repre­sentatives from Notre Dame and other colleges and qniver­sities throughout bot;l the nation and the world. The dis­cussions will concern different aspects of religion, including religious conflict and resolu­tion. 
The symposium will con­clude on Saturday with final discussions from additional representatives speaking on the progress of religious vio­lence and peace. 
Further information on the symposium may be obtained by calling the Center for Continuing Education at (219) 631-6691. 


<!:~ arg,~s 


eolitempt 
crimes and promote retoncil· 
South Africa 
before Jnu:.~Jl<:>•otuu in exchange \llllllll~ill<it of the charges. 
sday morning, ion lawyer \J:cl.lc1llt..Le~~ Said a day negotiations . an agreement. · . . . has effective·ly <rMJidiated all the discus­sions," Gauntlett said outside the courthouse. "He's blown 
. it;~' 
•i''' the case r,eveals South ; ~fri~a's lingering .racial ten· !i$ s, pitti.qg Botha -the
[j[('l ···· · ····· · •••, apartheid 
t President 1995 com~ to uncover 
iation. Botha, who worked against 

::sequal rights for blacks during his 1l years as prime minis~ ter and then president, will · face a black judge at his trial. 
Conservative whites have rallied around Botha, who says the Truth Commission is conducting a witch hunt against apartheid leaders and security forces. 
Blacks, on the other hand. see Botha standing before 

Magistrate of ·  .. Lugaju as a after the  .  
. gotia.~ ., truth , Botha signaled  

at he might testify in per­son before the panel -some.­thing he had previously said he would never do. 
But Gauntlett's comments indicated that Botha, known as the "big crocodile~ for his inflexible manner. in the end refused to go before the com­mission. 
The Truth Commission wants Botha to answer ques­tions about the State Security Council he headed during the 1980s. . 
The council of government and military officials oversaw the campaign against anti­apartheid groups such as Mandela's African National Congress. 


Are You interested in being part of Transfer 0 '98? Applications for Transfer Orientation Staff are available in the Student Activities Office (3rd floor LaFortune). Apply by Friday, April 17. All questions call: 
Lisa Radden Dave DePoister 
4-2967 4-3683 

(Co-Chair) (Co-Chair) 
----·-su --~·~----~~-~-------. ~-~--­




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-747I SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
ElliTOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EmTOR BUSINESS MANAGER Hrian Reimhaler Kylo Carlin 

ASSISTANT MANAGING EIJITOR Heather M.tcKentie 
NF.WS Er>ITOR .................. Manhew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ....................... Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo LJull An OF.~IGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Hudar SPORTS EDITOR.. . .... K:~.thleen Lnpc::z SYSTEMS MANAGER ..... Michad Brouillor SCENE EDITORS.......................... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ................. jennifer Breslow 
Krisd Klirsch CoNTROI.I.f.R. .. . ........... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EOITOR ...........Sh.wnon Ryan I'HOTO EDITOR . . .. ......Kovin Dalurn 
'l11c t)b~rvcr is the indcpcnclcm ncwspap~:r publishn.i by the: Mudcms of the Univcrsiry ofNouc: Dame: duLac and Saint Motry's College. h docs not necessarily reflect the policics of the admininr;uion of either institution. The ne-ws is rrportcd .u accuratdy .o:~nJ obJccrivdy .u possible. Un.signnl nlirnrials represent rhc opinion of the majoriry of the Ediror-in~Chief, M.m;aging Ed.i10r, AM1~touu Managing Editor and depanment editors. Commentaries, lcHers and columns preK"nt the views of the oo~uthors, and not necessarily thoSt' ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all member' of the Notre D;;eme/Saim M:uy's communiry and to all re-J.ders. The free ocprcs..,.ion ofvarying opinions 1hrough lcucrs is encouragnl. 
Contaqing The Observer 

Ediror-in-Chiof 631-4542 Businoss Offico 631-5313 Man>ging Ediwt/Assi.rant ME 631-4541 Advorrising 631-6900/8840 Nows/Plroto 631-H23 Systems 6.31-8839 Spom 6.31-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scono//Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I@nd.edu Day Ediror/Viowroinr 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.ed,u Office Managor/(,onorallnformarion 6.31-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsncws.l @nd.cdu 
• Goo 'N liFE 
View Life Through Faith 
As a teenager, I was blessnd in hav­warms my heart. It's happened ing the opportunity to help the Sisters before: during a summer at C.Y.O. at our parish church prepare for the Camp. One of the counselors was a great feasts of thn liturgical year. seminarian, and became good friends This extra involvement in Christmas, with the young men in his care. Some Easter, the May 
~=============== returned home
Crowning, Corpus after that week, Christi procession, and spoke of con­Confirmation Mass sidering the

Julie

and so forth priesthood. This brought me that touched me mucli doser to the deeply. One boy's meaning of these strategy was to

Ferraro

special days. find a way to be a "Getting my hands priest, a mechan­dirty", so to speak, ic, and fly planes helpPd nw understand the cere­all at the same time. I told him, monies. tlw songs, the readings. "Anything is possible, if you put your 
Last year. a young man I know was mind to it." blossr1d to have a similar chance, And he will, I hope, at some point. quitn by acddent. One of his friends, Any soul that is inspired by a positive Jon, is a janitor's assistant at the example has a better chance to parish school. The pastor asked .Jon accomplish great things. fulfill to come on lloly Saturday and help dreams, hear God's call. Just as mod­decoratn thn church for Easter. Any ern conwdians eredit Milton Berle or extra bodies Jon eould bring along Jonathan Winters for their inspira­would bn most welcome, also. My tion. or would-be astronauts see frirmd Lucas was tho only "body" who heroes in John Glenn or Christa answerPd .Joe's call. McAuliffe, so we need to sec those 
Five hours these young mnn spent who stand for the dignity of the poor, at the church. Tlwy returned home, .for the faith, for what is right. exhausted but smiling. I was told how Am I such an example'? Are we, the they hung the huge banners, community of Notre Dame'? Looking arranged tlw Easter !lowers, draped out the window. I see strife and con­gold bunting around the large marble flict in our neighborhoods, even on Crueilix (balanced on a ladder ten campus. I wish more young people fnet above tlw tloor), and moved the took adv<mtage of opportunities to lil'e-sizf~ statue of St. .Joseph without a really get involved and see how dolliP. Both young men looked for­meaningful and precious faith -life ward to rPturning that evrming for -can be. I look to these souls as the thn Easter Vigil, instPad of going on future. All we can do is try to teach thnir usual outing to the roller skat­them the Truth, and pray. ing rink. 
Lucas even mnntionml to me that he Julie Ferraro is a local administra­was intPrested in brling an altar serv­tive assistant. Her column appears nr again. something he'd done while every other Wednesday. · in gradn school. And he was v~1ry pro­The views expressed in this column tcctivt) of the olive wood cross the are those of the author and not nec­pastor gave him, "made from trees in essarily those of The Observer. the Gardm1 of Gethsemani." No way would he let it get broken. 
To sne a young man so inspired 

...6EN£RALLY. \GTARf 
~m\ A\-\\13 ANP WC!l?l< fROM1\lE{<E... 
I 

Clause Prevents Injustice, Not Judg01ent Calls 
Mr. Gabriel Martinez argues in a race and gendor, not just that snxual recent editorial (April 8) that it was for orientation should bn ln!'t ofT tlw list. being a poor homilist that Father Such clauses do not mean in prinei-Garrick was "uninvited" to preaeh at pic or in praetieo that persons tlwy the Basilica (in accord with Father cover are protectnd from nwritoeratie Jenkins's official explanation). judgments. But as things stand, neither 
More importantly, Martinez then Garrick nor anyonn else hen1 has pro­claims that this ease illustrates why the tnction from harm that rnsults instead University is right not to have a from pure bigotry. Suppose, hypothet­non-discrimination clause ~---~ ically, that the facts would that includes sexual prove Garrick's case (and orientation, since tlwro snems to bn piPnty such policies of evidmH:e on his effectively mean side-tlw daim that gay per-that thn Basilica's sons can do speakr1rs are cho­no wrong, sen domocrati­and are cally is just a insulated tad hypocritical, from sui'-as Kristine f'ering the Bonke nienly conse-pointml out i.n quenees of tlw nditorial fol­puroly mnri-lowing tocratic judg-Martinnz's). If so, ments: "The he would have no University legal daim against wanted to be tlw University, and able to get rid of this sr~nms plainly. sub-standard teach-wrong, just as it would bn ers, staffers, and yes, bad in a easn of radal bigotry or homilists, rwen if they call gender bias. themselves gay." The prindpln at stakn in a non-dis-
But whatever the facts about crimination dausn is what MAKES gnt­Garrick's preaching (and unlike ting the facts in a case like (;arriek's Martinez, I don't presume to know this) relevant to br1gin with, as surnly the idea that this says anything against Martinez and nveryonn else with his a non-discrimination clause ineluding sympathies must see. sexual orientation involves a blatant If this makes him feellikn a silo need, fallacy. Does Martinez think that coerced, persecuted minority, as IHl 
· because the elause now prohibits dis-claims, then I say: <1njoy your martyr­criminating against persons on the dom! basis of their race, the University could not lire an employee of (say) Latino John Davenport ethnicity on any grounds? If so, he Ph.D. Candidate must believe that there should be no Department of Philosophy clause forbidding discrimination April 13, 1998 against persons on any basis, including 
• DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
5AUY KOVN&R­
ON6 CF 7H6 a:KJNT­
/Lf66 YOUNGmulA 
RI3POI?7EI<'5~~ 
Uve5HAVC. /?IZN 7lJ/?NetJ IJPSICC ta€/N... 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Never trust the teller. Trust the tale.' 
-D.H. Lawrence 




---·· 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, April15, 1998 page 11 
AU.! 4 

• TABLE TALK • lHTEB TO THE EDITOR 
Deja Vu 

"Fish farts!" muttered Peter seemed. While Isaiah and to his brother. Andrew, ever Jeremiah were all over the silent, ever amused. "He's place -one moment it was doing it again!" "sweet dreams Israel" and the 
Although never one to watch next it was "nightmare on exile his words, Peter's long years in street." And Hosea. There was a fishing boat had led him to a real character. Marries a watch the sun fastidiously. He prostitute, just asking for trou­started and stopped each part ble, and then pulls his private of his day according to its life into the pulpit. progress 
=========~~~~~~;; Well, so

across the here was sky. 
precedent Among for all these 
Davidhis fishing dramatics, compan­but that ions, nets was just the were problem:

Weiss

dropped too the prece­
soon or too dent was 
late, too 
--------~============~----_Jthe

short or too long, as measured by Peter's standard. lie was a man on time. 
That is, until a couple of years back, when his boat, poised for the next cast of a net. had gotten caught in the wake of this carpenter, only recently turned Christ. Ever since then Peter's time was someone else's, and uncom­fortably so for him. 
It was his own fault, of course. Surn, the man had a mf)Smerizing quality to his voice. So much so that Peter had simply allowed his nets to fall limply into the water at the rather nonsensical calling to join in fishing for the lost sheep of Israel. But Peter always fan­cied that he could have declined the offer. And he often remarked to Andrew that if he wen~ in charge things would be run a little differently ... 
First off. no more God-awful long homilies. By his reckoning the sun was fast approaching the last hour of true daylight and still, after three or four full hours of preaching, Jesus showed no sign of reaching "Amen" anytime soon. And he was afraid that there would come again the request to find food for the whole lot here in the middle of nowhere, as though manna could still be had in the wilderness. 
Granted, the man could wax eloquent, turn a phrase, pick a parable. But the whole point, if Peter had figured right, was to pace yourself for the long haul. Folks might well give Jesus this type of time while he remained something of a curiosity, but after a while long-winded words would wear thin. That is except maybe for the poor, the outright homeless, and the other assorted rabble just glad to have found a friend. The regular folk wouldn't stand for it. "Mark my words, Andrew. Before the month is out, we'll be the ones fielding complaints and trying to tell our Messiah to say more with less." 
And secondly, lighten up on the dramatics. Where the car­penter acquired his taste for over-the-edge expressions Peter didn't know. Maybe a few too many stray mallet blows marking his thumb, he pon­dered with something short of ill humor. In any case, Peter could yaw a fish yarn with the best of them. He could embell­ish a bit, work his audience, so to speak. But the whole point, the art of telling the tale itself, was to entertain. You brought the audience with you. You didn't walk rough shod over them. 
Sure, Amos had shown a pretty rabid tongue. And Joel just plain had a mean streak in his imagination, or so it 
prophets. Persons whose only pension plan was guaranteed persecu­tion. Not that he had anything against the prophets, mind you. They just had never been among the company he expect­ed to keep on his career path. 
But here was Jesus, not just parroting the prophets but playing a part quite all his own. It was late in the day, there's a crowd full of hungry stomachs, and instead of wrap­ping things up, he's taking it right over the top again: "I came to cast fire upon the earth! And how I wish it were already burning! You yearn impatiently for your kingdoms of comfort. I have a baptism to be buried into. My work doesn't continue without that! Do you think I came to bring peace? No, I say. I bring divi­sion first. I unsettle and I dis­turb. Even families will become divided because of me!" Ouch. 
Peter cringed. This time for himself as much as for the crowd. Yes, he would do things differently, were it up to him. But it wasn't. Perhaps he could've stayed with his boat that day, now a lifetime ago, but he hadn't. And he wasn't turning back now. 
To Andrew, again, "The man speaks too long, way too long. And his flair for drama will get him into trouble one of these days ... And yet, Andrew, I would die for him if I had to. Rome could turn me upside­down, and I'd not quit his com­pany." And suddenly Peter chuckled at himself. It seemed his friend's fancy for overstate­ment was contagious. 
Meanwhile, on the far side of the crowd, Judas smiled at Jesus' overwrought rhetoric. Long sermons -or short ones -were of little interest to him. Crowds that were bored or only mildly impatient didn't rile easily. But fiery dramatics he liked. You could always take a crowd worked up and kept off balance -and send it careen­ing carefully out of control at just the right moment. Sometimes Jesus made his work too easy. 
Next stop was Jerusalem. 
'Preach it, brother!' Judas 
thought. And his fingers 
caressed the 30 silver coins 
he'd bartered for earlier that 
afternoon. 
David Weiss is a graduate 
student in Christian ethics. His 
column appears every other 
Monday. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those ofthe author 
and not necessarily those of 
The Observer. 

U.S. Can Help to Put Peace Process On Track 
I have read with interest the letter sent from Jerusalem by Matt Kutz. Ironically (after all, yesterday it was Fouls' day), I never thought that as an Israeli citizen who frankly opposes the pernicious policy (or lack thereof) of my current government, and as someone who supports the peace process, I will have to write a response to Mr. Kutz's letter. Yet, I want to point out some serious mistakes, and misinterpretations of facts. It is clear that both parties to the conflict -Palestinians and Israelis -can and should base their claims on justice and morality, but this is not a histo­ry of Israel depicted as a "criminal" and the Palestinians as "innocent victims" (or vice­versa). Life is more complicated than that. Let me proceed and underline those mistakes: 
(1) 
"The United States has created and nur­tured Israel." On November 29, 1947, the United Nations voted to partition Palestine by creating a Jewish state (today's Israel) and an Arab Palestinian state. The Zionist (Jewish national) movement got the support from both the United States (at the diplomatic level only). and especially from the Soviet Union (diplomatic and militarily). The United States posed a military embargo after 1948 against Israel, and it was not until the late 1960's that this country began to massively support the state of Israel. 

(2) 
In his letter, Mr. Kutz forgot to mention that following the United Nations decision (in 1947), which was accepted by the Jews but rejected by the Arabs, a war erupted in 


well as Resolution 338 of 1973) do not con­clude that "the land should be released to Palestinian control." Actually, I read several times those two resolutions (http://www.usis­israel.org.il/publish/peace/242.htm) and never found that phrase, or even a hint of it. The resolutions, which are still the basis for any fair bargain, call for the exchange of "land for peace;" namely, "withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict" (1967, and territories rather "all the territories"), in exchange for "termination of belligerency ... and right to live in peace with­in secure and recognized boundaries." Hence, it will be a good idea for all of us to go back 
and re-read all the relevant historic docu­
ments. 
(5) In 1993 Israel signed the Oslo Agreements, recognizing the PLO and the political rights of the Palestinian people, and granting a five-year autonomy by the end of which a "final status" of the territories will be decided by negotiations between the parties. There was an implicit, rather than explicit commitment to the creation of a Palestinian state. Yet, I believe with the majority of the Israelis in the inevitability of such a state. Most of the settlements in the territories were created before 1993, and they occupy proba­bly around 20-25 percent of the territory of the West Bank. A territorial compromise then is feasible and will be found, since there is no serious alternative to peace negotiations between the two peoples. 


Palestine/Israel. On April 30, 50 years ago, Israel was created amidst a war precipitated by the invasion of seven Arab armies. Unfortunately, the Palestinian (Arab) state never took place, and most of its territory was occupied (until1967) by Transjordan (today's Jordan), and by Egypt (the Gaza strip). If the Arabs would have accepted the Partition plan, then the Arab Palestinian state would also be celebrating 50 years of independence this month. 
(3) In 1967, in a pre-emptive war of self­defense Israel attacked Egypt and Syria. Yet, in the Jordanian front, it was King Hussein's fateful decision to join Egyptian President Nasser and start the war with Israel by bomb­ing Jerusalem, which subsequently led to the Israeli conquest of East Jerusalem and the West Bank (previously annexed by Jordan in 1950). 
Again, ironically, if Jordan would have stayed out of the 196 7 war as Israel asked through secret diplomatic channels, the West Bank would be today an integral part of Jordan, rather than a Palestinian state in the making. By the way, Israel also occupied after the war (in addition to the West Bank and the Gaza Strip), the Egyptian peninsula of Sinai (184 percent ofthe territory of Israel), and the Syrian Golan Heights. In 1979, after Cani.p David, Israel made peace with Egypt by returning Sinai in exchange for peace and diplomatic relations. Until then Israel refused to withdraw from any occupied territory since there was not a serious Arab partner ready to make peace (i.e. the Palestinians in 1968 drew their National Charter, calling for the destruction of Israel, and it was not until 1988 that they were ready for a peaceful two-state solution). 
(4) Resolution 242 of November 196 7 (as 
(6) The depiction of the Israeli soldiers as criminals and of the suicide Islamic terrorists as innocent victims is an inaccurate version of a much more complex reality, to say the least. 
Within both peoples there is a minority that opposes a political solution and regards vio­lence and political terror as a feasible alter­native. Yet, there is a silent majority that is interested in keeping the peace process going. It is here where the United States can help the parties by putting the peace process back on track, and by turning to the Israeli public opinion which is highly attentive to the U.S. position. The question is not whether Israel can exist without the U.S. economic and mili­tary support (after 50 years of existence, we are a developed country with a strong econo­my and military), but rather whether Israel will move from war to peace in the year of its jubilee, and what it will become in the next 50 years. A solution of the Israeli-Palestinian dis­pute (and the larger Arab-Israeli conflict) on the basis of a territorial compromise, imple­mentation of Resolution 242, and the creation of a demilitarized Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza is required for both moral and prudential reasons, and it will serve the interests of both peoples. At the same time, it is crucial to know the facts, learn the history, and admit that both parties have claims of relative, rather than absolute justice. 
Arie M. Kacowicz Hebrew University ofJerusalem Visiting Fellow at Kroc and Kellogg Institute Concurrent Assistant Professor, Department of Government April 13, 1998 
.... PW 





Ani's albums 
All previous releases can be found on Righteous Babe Records 

Ani DiFranco 
1990 


Not So Soft 


1991 



Like I Said 
1993 

Imperfectly 
1992 


Puddle Dive 
1993 

Out Of Range 
1994 


Not A PreHy Girl 
1995 
More Joy Less Shame 
1996 




Dilate 
1996 


Living In Clip 
1997 


By DOMINIC CARUSO 
Scene Music Writer 
A
ni Difranco is a heroine for anyone with a gui­tar, a little talent, and a dream that they can be real musicians without selling his or her soul to the corporate machine. Failing to meet the industry standard for "alternative music" (meaning generally a group of photogenic guys with a couple of cords on guitars and a slot on MTV Buzzbin,) Ms. Difranco succeeds in creating her own music and presenting it to her ever expanding fan base unconstrained from the rules of the music industry. 
A life long resident of Buffalo, New York, Ms. Difranco's first experiences with music were not from the narrow spectrum of radio or television but from inti­mate encounters with live per­formers. Working musicians from Buffalo bars and other small venues often spent the night at her family's home on their way to other gigs. These close relation­ships and first-hand experiences lit Ms. Difranco's own passion for livt~ performance, and she began playing guitar and singing in bars befom she was ten years old. At fifteen, she was a regular at local coffee houses and clubs. 
In 1989, at the age of nineteen, shA moved to New York City to record her first cassette. Borrowing $1500 to cover the recording costs, shn produced a tape containing raw songs about her own lifo experiences, ranging from relationships to tragic events. Ms. DiFranco decided to release the first album alone, without the financial support of a record label. which would contin­ue for her next ten albums and one EP. 
This perhaps is the most chal'is­matic aspect of Ani DiFranco: her refusal to give in to the corporate animal. Her control over her own music is absolute; Ani decidAs when her albums come out, what songs get released, what mer­chandising looks like and where it is produced (usually in her home town Buffalo), which sin­gles get press, and which songs become videos. Ms. Difranco's seventeen person company "Righteous Babe Hecords" is a "small business that puts music before rock-stardom and ideology before profit." Other artists that supposedly have their own label in actuality are usually just an arm of a major label providing financial backing and handling distribution, such as the Beastie Boys. The fact is that most record labels can't compete with the success that Ms. DiFranco is experiencing on her own. While the average performer makes $2 for every recording, she makes $4. In addition, her concerts in the last two years have grossed over $4 million. 


Pressure to sign to a high pro­file company may be increasing with Ms. Difranco's new main-that adequately capt un~ tlw range of Ms. Difranco's ability to produce music. She has per­formed singularly. with drums and bass. a1id with an orchestra. ller albums have includnd spoken word, dance remixes, and a dou­ble live album. ller song writing is dct~ply personally, and the lis­tener ean hear tlw honesty and dopth of emotion pourt~d into t~ach song. 
llowovor, Ani Difranco is, first and fon~most, a I ivn performer. ller ability to rnlate with the crowd, which is often a cm1eert 


stream successes. After being a guest on both Late Night with David Letterman and the Conan O'Brien Show (which was includ­ed on the first track of the Live From 6A CD,) Ms. Difranco's usual fan base of near cultists, ardent fans attracted by her "feminist lyrics" and passionate guitar strumming may be aug­mented by those who haven't been with her every step of her way. 
However, politics, sexual orien­tation, and financial concerns aside, the biggest attraction to Ani Difranco is hAr music itself. It is difficult to name any one (or possibly limit to several) songs hall filled to capacity. is mastc~r­ful. Songs performed live can sonwtinws bear precious little J'()Semblan<:l' to their studio coun­terpart. llnr constant touring has honed this ability to a razor edge unparalleled in thn indie music industry, !)Specially for a por­former of her ago. An Ani Difranco show live is an expori­ence. ller natural charisma, energy, and vitality all come through far more dearly than on hor studio work. Live, she will convert those who had beon skeptical of lwr fans to ard<)nt fol­lowers. Missing her tonight at Stepan Center at eight will be missing a future legt~nd. 

Tickets are still available 
at the door or LaFortune Info Desk (631-8128) $15 with ND/SMC/HCC ID $18 General Public 

----------------------------------------------pagel3 


**** 1/2 (best out of five) 

T
he eccentric and outspoken Ani DiFranco has reinvented herself yet again with her 11th album, Little Plastic Castle. Laced with hints of ska, Iatino and jam-based rock, not to mention a plethora of studio effects, her latest album is her most eclectic yet. While she explores various genres music with a more controlled confidence, DiFranco still preserves her most defining characteristics of melding unique guitar melodies and graphic lyrics throughout the album. 
The album begins with the title track, "Little Plastic Castle," in what appears to be an under­stated piece about life's lessons and their con­stant presence. She sounds poignant and emo­tional a top her Gibson four-string guitar, an appropriately understated instrument. DiFranco then foreshadows what is to come on the remainder of the album as horns burst in with a half-time ska texture at the chorus: expect the­unexpected. On the third piece, "Gravel," which also appeared on her previous live release, Living In Clip, she reduces her formula to the three-piece band, and her lyrics are quintessen­tial Ani: "Let me count the ways that I abhor you. You were never a good lay, and you were never a good friend , but what can I say, I adore you." Spoken word pieces "Fuel" and "Pulse" affirm her mastery of the English language, which should place her name in the vocabulary of great 20th century female lyricists. 
Her songwriting has constantly improved, and the variety of styles that include listener-friendly hooks {"As Is," "Loom," and "Independence Day") contrast well with the aforementioned groove-oriented pieces that serve more as back­drop soundscapes for her spoken word than pieces in-and-of themselves. 
Adding texture and color to DiFranco's sound are regulars Andy Stochansky on the drums and Jason Mercer on bass, both veterans of her past two tours. However, a bevy of other guest musi­cians include percussionist Jerry Marotta, of Peter Gabriel and Indigo Girl fame, and trum­.. peter Jon Hassell. Most noteworthy is Hassell's performance on "Pulse," as he layers some ethe­real phrases over an improvised bridge section. 
The organic ten minute extended jam functions as a well-placed denoument for DiFranco's typi­cally brief and to-the-point pieces. 
While "Little Plastic Castle" is DiFranco's most instrumentally and lyrically eclectic album, it also reaffirms that her acoustic guitar work, lyrics and vocal melodies are her forte. She stays close enough to this that the added instru­mentation and variety of styles generally com­plement her and do not detract from the perfor­mance. All things considered, this is her strongest and most consistent effort yet. Don't miss her live performance tonight at Stepan Center. 
Joel Cu111mins 




David Garza: This Euphoria 
Atlantic Records 
**** 1/2 (best out of five) 

D
avfd Garza's latest recording effort, This Euphoria, marks his major-record label debut on Atlantic Records. Garza, a Texas native, is finally receiving the recognition he deserves as a musician after hav­ing produced on his Wide Open label for almost ten years. For those unfamiliar with his seduc­tive, movement-inducing tones, Garza performs the self-proclaimed "Latin-funk thing." As an accomplished guitarist and singer -the cultural intersection of Jimmy Page, Mexican folk music and 1980s pop deconstruction -Garza moves freely between acoustic salsa grooves, bass-dri­ven dance riffs, and dreamy love songs a Ia Richie Valens. Regardless of the stylistic form chosen, songs by Garza ensure absolute listener pleasure. 
This Euphoria is a 13 track mixture of previ­ously released songs and other songs released for the first time. Garza's latest musical trend of combining bass, drums and guitar with some kitschy lo-fi sampling (don't miss the Casio key­board loops) appears in songs like the slinky title track "This Euphoria," the driving "Glow In the Dark," and the fast-paced "Discoball World" filled with "dreadlock white girls and laptop lon­ers." The result is pure David magic as it inspires the smooth motion of bodily extremities. 
The older songs on the album fluctuate between remaining true-to-form and bordering overly produced. "Slave," a delectable reggae number also found on the Great Expectations soundtrack, shows Garza's musical diversity while maintaining a style consistent with its orig­inal release. 

However, other tracks like "Core" and "Baptiste" have lost their intoxicating reverb excess in favor of a safer, produced influence. Not to worry; the songs that have undergone the most change since appearing on the earlier albums Blind Hips In Motion and Conmigo main­tain their essential Davfd beauty albeit in an altered form. Some change in the songs' perfor­mance keep things fresh for Garza, but that experimentation might fit better into a live venue than it does on the album. 
This Euphoria comes with high recommenda­tions and should soon find its way into all music lovers' CD collections. The album has the poten­tial not only to focus national attention on a tal­ented young star but also the long-neglected diversity of the Austin music scene which proud­ly holds the title of "live music capital of the world." The energy-packed live showmanship of Garza will not disappoint as he opens for another long under-appreciated musical talent, Ani DiFranco, tonight at Stepan Center. So take in some rhythmic Texas sunshine in the form of Davfd Garza tonight, and be sure pick up This Euphoria as a souvenir of that brilliance. 
Ryan Mason 

April16 Murat Theatre April18 The Rave April20 Cincinnati Music Hall April22 Asheville Civic Center April23 Masquerade April25 Florida Theatre 
-:~::·.  
Indianapolis, IN  April27  House of Blues  Lake Buena Vista, FL  
Milwaukee, WI  April28  Tampa Theatre  Tampa, FL  
Cincinnati, OH  June 19  Mann Center  Philadelphia, PA  
Asheville, NC  June 20  Battery Park  New York, NY  
Atlanta, GA  July 1  Red Rocks  Denver, CO  
Gainesville, FL.  July 3  Irvine, CA  UCI Bren Center  

-•-= 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
~~-------------------------------------------------------------~~~~=---------------------------------------~~~--------­
• MEN'S TENNI~ • GOlf 
~ 

Notre Dame falls to Record-setting weekend for Irish 
two top-I 0 teams 
By M. SHANNON f{YAN 
Sainr ~lary's Editor 
I 

Collapsing undPr: the might of 
No. 7 TPxas and No. (J Illinois 
ovPr brPak. not rrlurh snPmPd 
linn about tlw No. 14 men's tPn­
nis tnam. J 
llowPver. it di I nweal its 
caparity to lw<·om1 a rock-solid 
fOITP. I 
'TvP told tlw tPP.m that you 
can't gPI steP! without putting 
iron in thn lin•," said roach Bob 
Bayliss. "In tlw pqH'nss. it gets 
soft. but it hardrms twicn as 
hard." 
AftPr smoldPring Ball State (J­
1 on Friday. Notre Dame trav­
nled to the fipr·v sttes of Texas 
and Illinois wliPr!' they wern 
scordwd twicP by the score of 
4-3. I 
Doubles plaguqd the Irish 
against the Longhorns as they 
droppml two of thteP matches. 
Vijay Freeman ~-tnd Danny 
Bothschild WNP thf only duo to 
narn a win by dPftjating Texas' 
No.2 team. 9-7. 
"Wp nxpert go,Jd doublns 
when we're playing against 
!high quality tParusl." Bayliss 
said. "But it was still disappoint­
ing to SPe us crumb)p like that." 
Although Byan Sarhire, Jakub 
PiPlrowski and Brian Patterson 
collnrted wins in tht~ top three 
singll's spots. Texali went on to 
dean up the bottom of the line­
up. 
"Tnxas is almost as good at 
the bottom of the 'lineup as at 
the top," Bayliss said. ''I'd like to 
think we could have stolen onP 
of tlwse Jat tlw tbrPf~ bottom 
positions!. but they are vPry. 
very good." 
The Longhorns stugnd a stam­
pede against Hothschild. Matt 
llorsley and Eric Enloe. taking 
tlwm all in two sets, 
The match against Illinois also -teetPred on tlw possibility of 
success beforn the Irish lost bal­
ance in their 4-3 defeat. 
With weather foreing the 
match indoors. Illinois. who tPnd to improvp with indoor play, lwld the definitP advan­tage. 
"It came down to just one or two points," Bayliss said. "We had somP fundamPnlal break­downs: our serve percnntage and rPturns were lowPr than they should have been." 
Doubles again provnd shaky as llw Irish could only gain one win. Sarhin• and Jlorsley defeat­Pel their oppmwnts H-(J at No. 3, but tlw No. I and 2 pairs could not nndure. Both fell by the scor11 of 9-7. 
"Wn rwPd to be mon• aggres­sive wlwn it comes down to crunch time at No. I." Bayliss said of the Pietrowski-Patterson combination. 
The Irish also seemed fatigued in singles. Only Sachire, Patterson, and Enloe could secure victories. handing Notre Dame a <mP-point loss. 
At one point. the Irish were up 3-2 in thn match with scores steady at three-all. However, Gavin Sontag and Jakub Teply were too sound for Pietrowski and Hothschild to handle. 
"You have to givP Sontag and Teply credit." Bayliss said. "We didn't give them the win: tht~y earned it." 
The loss to the Illini was the first for th1~ Irish in the last 11 meetings and dropped Notre Dame to 14-(J on the season. 
Next the Irish will have to llex their strength against top 30 Michigan on Friday. 
"It's a hard week." Bayliss said. "Miehigan has plays with top 20 talent. They could beat Illinois." 
But despitn being in the midst of a two-month road trip with a packed schedule, the Irish still are concentrating on the posi­tives. 
"The competition will make us bettor," Bayliss said. "We think wP can beat them. It shows us we can bn at thPir level in May." 

By GENE BRTALIK 
Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame men's golf team headed to Marshall last week. they sat in the van as one of the hottest tt>ams in District IV. In the last two tournaments, the team has senn it.s ranking jump six places from 14th to eighth and it could earn an invitation to the NCAA n~gional if it continues to dominate the courses the way they had in rncf'nt wePks. 
The Marshall Invitational brought in 20 of the top teams from the surrounding areas. each looking to improve its own stand­ings in the district. On the first day Notm Dame's luck seemed to have run out as the Irish found themselves in 13th place with rounds of 294 and 301. 
The second day saw the Irish storm back and shoot a 283, the second lowest scorn for the tour­nament, as they found themsdves in eighth, only six strokes out of fifth place. Tho 283 featured scores of 70 by both Jell' Connell and Bryan Weeks, 71 by Todd Vernon. and a 72 by Willie Kent. 
The story of' the tournament for the Irish was the play of' the sophomore Connell. l:le started the first round with a one-under 70 and then, later on Friday. carded a two-under 69. The three-under 139 placed Connell in third after the first day. He start­ed the third day on tho back nine trying to overcome thn two-stroke lead separating him from medalist honors. The round did not start off as he would have liked, as he made the turn at three over par. 
Connell rebounded and birdied the first three holes. the fifth, and the seventh. As he stood at the tee on the ninth and final hole for him, he stood tied for first, but his putt went awry and he settled for a bogey and a runner-up finish. 
The four-und!~r score of' 209 was the first time an Irish golfer had been under par since competition was switched to stroke play in 1963. The 209 also broke the wcord for 54 holes set by Brian Donohoe last year with an even-par 216. Connell also holds the third best score for 54 holes with a 217 set at last fall's Indiana Intercollegiate. 
The terrain proved to be just to his liking. 
"The coursn was lilled with hills and the greens were sloped from front to back. and its layout was relative to thn courses that I have played on at horne," statnd Connell. "This was tlw bnst I haVP played for two days. I was happy with my play, but I wish it would have happened when the tnam played just as well." 

While Connell adjusted to the courst~. the rest of the tmtm struggled worrying about tlw t1~rrain and location of the pins. Weeks finishnd the tournanwnt in 19th place with a 217, VPrnon finished with a 
225. Kent with a 229, and Brad liardin with a 2:{ I. The rest of the team's adjustment to tlw course on Saturday was one of' thP reasons for a ll'am-record score of 283. 
Each member of' the Irish starting live owns a medalist or runner-up finish in his can~er, includ­ing four during 1997-98: VPrnon (1st. Big East Championship), Weeks (I st. Butlnr Invitational). Kent (2nd. Butler Invitational) and Connell (2nd. Marshall Invitational). 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Nurre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline f(H nexr-day clas­
Classifieds sifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classilleds lor conrenr withom issuing refunds. 
1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR  ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA­ 
NOTICES  MODELS NEEDED! Female and Male Models for an upcoming  CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551  TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM­ PERSONAL  LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR THE '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR?  
A VEDA production. Model calls are  PUS, CONT. BRKFST INCL. CALL  THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is  
-THE COPY SHOP - being held now. Have fun and get a  DOMUS PROPERTIES  277-8340  Now that Lent is over, revelry is  now accepting applications for next  
LaFortune Student Center  great new look. Please call 1-800·  again being encouraged. We al  fall. Student positions are limited so  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  356-5533 ext 1209 for information.  NOW LEASING 2 HOMES  apply early.  
AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm  FOR RENT  Capacity from 6 -9 students Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in student populated areas.  We need two people or one female roommate lo sublet our nice house: near campus, furnished. Call Peter  UMPHREY'S McGEE know this and have planned a very  •••••••••• *"' ••••• SABOR LATINO  
Sat Noon · 6:00pm  Completely remodeled and ready  251-0815.  special night for all of !he kids at  
Sun Noon -Midnight  Now Renting  for the 98/99 schoolyear.  Thursday April 16  
CALL 631-COPY  Campus View  Call Kramer at 674-2571  THE LANDING  Club Landing  
ILOST & FOUND I 1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks from campus 272-1441  or 289-5999. SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE  Tri-level 3 bedroom house, 1.5 miles from campus across from  which is located at 1717 E. Lincolnway. To gellhere take  9:30pm· 12:30 am Salsa/Merengue lessons at 8pm  
Lease from June to Aug. 1.  park, wilh 1.5 bath, family room with  Eddy/Juniper South across the river  Coming soon: CD release party!  
LOST: Man's silver braceiEjl  Very Reasonable Rent  All houses are surrounded by other  fire place, 2 car garage & fenced in  and take the 2nd Lincolnway exit  
somewhere on campus. Great sentimental value. Please call  Looking for mature adult, or grad student.  student rentals. Call Kramer at 674­2571 or 289-5999.  backyard. Has ale, stove, trig., d/w, g/d, & wid.  (Uncolnway E. South/Mishawaka) east. After about 2 miles you will  SABOR LATINO.................  
Danny al273-0147. Rew11rd  960 per mo. 289-5057 or 232-4527  see the Landing on your left. We  
offered. THANX  Send inquiries lo:  know good music and want those of  I didn't know you could contort  
PTS  FREE SUMMER STORAGE  you who know it lo benefit too, so  yourself like that..  
WANTED  1705 Soulh Bend Ave. So. Bend, IN 46637  '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR. WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE.  Bed & Breakfast for ND graduation  bring your Ani DiFranco ticket stub and get $1 off the cover. Wahoo!  And now ... Heeeeeeeeeeere's  
234-3831/273-0482  & Football. 3 miles from ND. 287­ Meg!  
CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR  Nice 5 bdrm. 2 balh full basement.  4545  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  
JOBS -Excellent benefits. World  Walking distance 10 campus.  Rooms in private house.  Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor  Korn, here's my Classifies of  
Travel. Ask us how! 517-324-3090  350/rm. utilities & appl., WiD incl.  1 mi from ND. Summer rental.  play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID-1/2  redemption... Now where's my  
ext. C55841  Taking deposits for 98-99 sci. yr.  Greg 634-0766.  FOR SALE  price field fee. 291-2540.  South Park-l'm in withdrawal'  
Sales/Marketing Internships  277-5483.  Miss Bear,  
...  University Directories is hi~ing stu- College Park Apartment for  1984 Volkswagen Cabaret convert.  Hey -did you know...  Will you marry me?  
dents to sell yellow page a~vertis- ROOM FOR RENT, IDEAL FOR  SUBLET for 2 month minimum.  5·speed, 50,000 mi. Stored winters.  Love,  
ing for the official campus tele- COUPLES. Privacy, turn. bedroom,  Maximum of 4 people to rent.  $2,995.  We're open early, late, and week- Monkey Boy  
phone directory this summer. Paid  wash/dry, kitchen  $175 per person. Willing to  674-5104 Bob Hull  ends for your convenience!  
internship. Training program. Excellent sales/marketing &man­ 10 min. frm campus. Single $325/Shared $425 plus  negotiate. CALL 273-9235  Beautiful brass bed. queen size,  -THE COPY SHOP-LaFortune Student Center  Hey rude boy-Have fun eating alone on !he steps of Bond in the  
agement experience. Call  electric/phone 284-6257 day 273­ with orthopedic mattress set and  Phone 631-COPY  rain!  
1-800-743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit  4517 eve. Karen  Interested in subletting a 2 Bdrm  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  
www.universitydireclories.~;om  College Park Apartment for the  plastic. $225  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  "UNIT" members: Was it difficult lo  
ALL SIZE HOMES  Summer? Call 4-3857  219-862-2082  babbling brooks in summer.  play a bball game "Commando  
Rec Sports is hiring stude~l  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Best Offer.  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire- Style"???  
supervisors for nexl academic  232·2595  Princess Diana stamps. Contact  place in winter. Love and joy for  
year. Freshmen and sophomores  4BR house close to ND.  Anne at 1-4861  your baby all year long. Happy, car- Yankee Stadium's falling down,  
preferred. Must qualify for )VOrk/  FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM- grad students only unfurnished.  ing professional couple would love  falling down, falling down. Yankee  
study. Sports interest andlpr  PUS. WASHER/DRYER.  233-1727 1,300  FURNITURE-All kinds, low prices,  to provide a newborn with love, joy  Stadium's falling down, My Fair  
background helpful. Apply by  FALUSUMMER.272-6551  from a CP apt.-call271-7458  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ Lady.  
April 23, Rec Sports office.  800-484-7011 Pin #4523  

---~~~~---~----~--­
Wednesday, April 15, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 15 

The SACRED The SWORD &GLOBAL 
SECURITY 
Religious Dimensions of 
Violence, Peace and Security 
Thursday, April 16 
7 p.m. Symposium Welcome Opening Address: 
"Religious Narratives of Violence and Peace" 
Karen Armstrong 
London, England 
Friday, April 17 
9 a.m. Conference Keynote: "Coming to Terms with Religious Militance" 
David Little United States Institute of Peace 
Chair: Rev. David Durrell, G.S.G. University of Notre Dame 
Respondent: Azizah ai-Hibri University of Richmond 
Respondent: R. Scott Appleby University of Notre Dame 
10:3o a.m. Coffee Break 
11 a.m. The Roles of Religious Actors in the Former Yugoslavia 
Chair: Raimo Vayrynen University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: Michael Sells Haverford College 
Presentation: Paul Mojzes Rosemont College 
Presentation: William F. Vend ley World Conference on Religion and Peace 
2:30p.m. Sources and Patterns of Religious Violence in the Middle East 
Chair: Rev. Patrick Gaffney, G.S.G. University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: Emmanuel Sivan Hebrew University, Jerusalem 
Presentation: Amira Sonbol Genter for Muslim-Christian Understanding Georgetown University 

An International Symposium April 16-18, 1998 
Genter for Continuing Education University of Notre Dame 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies The Office of the Provost The Gushwa Genter for the Study of American Catholicism 
Symposium Theme 

Religious actors and communities have emerged in the post-Cold War world as powerful sources of legitimacy for religious hatreds and ethnonationalist violence on the one hand, and as defenders of human rights and agents of conflict resolution and peacebuilding on the other. 
This symposium will examine the dual roles of religion in deadly conflict, consider their interrelationship, and explore policy implications for interreligious cooperation, security and human 
rights in~tiatives. 

Presentation: Henry Munson Jr. University of Maine 
Respondent: Alan Dowty 
University of Notre Dame  
4:30 p.m.  Coffee Break  
5 p.m.  Protestant and Catholic Activists in Northern Ireland  

Presentation: Rev. Dr. John Dunlop Presbyterian Church in Ireland, Belfast 
Presentation: Margaret O'Gallaghan University of Notre Dame 
Respondent: John Darby Initiative on Conflict Resolution and Ethnicity (IGORE) Northern Ireland 
Respondent: Gerard Powers United States Catholic Conference 
8:15p.m. Religion as a Transnational Social Actor 
Chair: Fred Dallmayr University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: Susanne Hoeber Rudolph University of Chicago 
Response: Cynthia Sampson Eastern Mennonite University 
Saturday, April 18 
9 a.m. Religious Activism in South Africa: Apartheid and its Aftermath 
Chair: Garth Meintjes University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: Tristan Dorer Connecticut Golleoe 
Presentation: Peter Walshe University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: Rev. Buti Tlhagali South African Catholic Bishops Conference 
10:3o a.m. Break 
11 a.m. Religious Peacebuilding: Conflict Resolution 
Chair: Carolyn Nordstrom University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: John Paul Lederach Eastern Mennonite University 
Respondent: Andrea Bartoli Columbia University 
1:15 p.m. Religious Peacebuilding: Religious Human Rights 
Chair: Rev. Robert Pelton, G.S.G. University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: John Witte Jr. Emory University School of law 
Respondent: Dinah l. Shelton University of Notre Dame 
3:30 p.m. Religious Peacebuilding: Resources in Religious Traditions 
Chair: Kathleen Maas Weigert University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: Sulak Sivaraksa International Network of Engaged Buddhists Bangkok, Thailand 
Presentation: Chandra Muzaffar JUST, Malaysia 
Presentation: Rabbi Marc Gopln George Mason University 
Presentaiion: Todd D. Whitmore University of Notre Dame 
5:30 p.m. Reception 
6 p.m. The Sacred, Security and Peace 
Chair: Robert Johansen University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: William Quandt University of Virginia 
Discussants: David Cortright Fourth Freedom Forum 
Robert Johansen University of Notre Dame 
-,. 
Students and Faculty Welcome Free of Charge 
_j 

~--.....---------~ -~ ~· ---~--~ ~-­
~-~-~­

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
• Wor~EN's SOCCER 
• BASEBALL 

Sobrero invited to Clutch hitting prevails again 


priest n [ME priest, fr. OE preost, modif. Of LL presbyter]: one authorized to perform the sacred rites of a religion esp. as a mediatory gent between human beings and God. 
Holy Cross priest n [19th century, orig. fr. France., C.S.C.]: says Mass, hears confessions, coaches football, sponsors SYR's, works odd hours, has weird friends who like to dress up, rides bike like maniac, averages one hospital run per month, prays constantly for guidance, LOVES his job. Gets ordained at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday after Easter. 
If you are graduating and think you have what it takes to be the next Tom Doyle, 
Contact Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. at 631-6385 www.nd.edu/-vocation to schedule your interview. 
Sign-ups for the Class of 1998 at Moreau Seminary close May 15. 
CoNGREGATION oF HoLY CRoss 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL '<JY 

national team camp 
Special to The Observer named NCAA tournament defen­
sive MVP as the Irish shut out all 
Noti·e Dame three-time All­four opponents on its way to Anwriean wornpn's soccer play­winning the 1995 NCAA Pr and 1997 Big East defensive . Championship. She helped lead playt>t' of thP year Kate Sobrero Notre Dame to four NCAA had bpen 
!====--Championship weekend appear­named onH of ances, three Big East champi­24 players to onships and one Midwestern the six-day Collegiate championship in her 
U.S. wmm•n's four years. national tt>am The Irish were the top-ranked training team in the country during her camp from final three years and finished April 18-23. the 1994 and 1996 regular sea­
at the Sobrero 
son at No.1. Olympic Sobrero trained with the Training CentPr in San Diego, national team in January in Calif. preparation for a trip to China 
At tlw ~~onclusion of the camp, but suffered a broken jaw on the 18 players will be selected for final day of camp and was 
U.S. national team games forced to leave. She is currently against Argentina on April 24, in completing her final semester at Fullerton. Calif. and April 26, in Notre Dame and will graduate in 
San JosP. Calif. May from the College of Science Sobrero starred for Notre with a degree in science-busi­Dame from 1994-97 and was ness. 
The Observer invites You to use our Classifieds. 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's heralded pitching staff has been solid throughout the team's recent 16-1 run, but it's the clutch hitting that is responsible for its 26-10 mark on the year. 
Last night the Irish added a doubleheader sweep of Manchester, taking the first game 11-1 and the nightcap 3­
2. 
Larry Zimont provided the heroics with two home runs, the first two of his career, in back-to-back at-bats. 
In the second. Zimont took an Eric Fike offering deep to left field scoring two of four Irish runs in the inning. 
"I· was happy for Larry [Zimontl." said head coach Paul Mainieri. "I know he's been waiting to hit that long ball for a long time. He got two [home runs] in the first game, and had a big hit for us in the second game. It was great; I was really happy and proud of him." 
Zimont's second dinger eame in the fom:th inning -another shot pulled over the wall in 

Big East Baseball Standings 
''*'"'·.··mw  L  T  
Notre Dame  8  0  0  
Rutgers  7  0  
Seton Half  7  3  0  
St. John's  6  3  0  
.:;:~:  
West Virginia  5  3  0  
Providence  7  4  
Connecticut  6  5  0  
Villanova  3  7  0  
Georgetown  3  10  0  
Pittsburgh  2  11  0  
Boston College  0  7  0  

Lefty Tim Kalita combined with John Corbin and Mike Carlin for the seven-inning game, blanking the Spartans until the seventh when pineh hitter Eugene Peoples singled. advanced on an error and scored the team's lone run. 
Pitching dominated tlie sec­ond game, as Scott Cavey picked up his first win and Big East rookie of the week Aaron 
.Pet  w  L  T  .Pet  
1.000  24  10  0  .706  
.833  14  11  0  .545  
.700  17  12  0  .586  
.667  15  9  .620  
.625  24  8  .742  
.625  22  11  1  .662  
.545  14  11  0  .560  
.230  16  12  1  .569  
.230  18  23  0  .496  
.154  8  18  0  .308  
.063  10  12  .457  

Allen Greene knocked in the game-winner. a two-out pineh­hit singln in the fifth that seored Ben Cooke from second. 
"Last year AI started all but one game; it was against Purdue, and I the same thing happened," said Maini1~ri. "I put him in the game as a pinch hitter, and he won the game. I might havn to consider doing that on a rngular basis." 

9:00-10:15 GETTING STARTED IN SPORTS MARKETING Theresa Kelly, ND '90, Assistant Sports Information Director at Lehigh, Georgia NOTRE DRME Scott Paddock, Account Supervisor, Sports Partners, Chicago Bob Crable, ND '82, all-time leading tackler for ND, 1st round draft for NY Jets, Founder Crable Sportswear ·SPDR+S 10:30-11 :45 MARKETING A SPORTS TEAM, LEAGUE OR PERSONALITY Gary Jacobus, Senior Vice President, Corporate Sports Consulting, MARKETING International Management Group (IMG) Steve Schanwald, Executive Vice President Marketing and Broadcasting 12:00-1:15SYMPOSIUM Lunch and Keynote Address Doug Logan, Commissioner, Major League Soccer Reservations must be made by April 14 at 631-9330 1:30-2:45 WOMEN IN SPORTS Judy Shoemaker, former Vice President, NBA Properties Sue Levin, Director of Women's Sports Marketing, NikeFRIDAY (will present "play like a girl" campaign) APRIL 17, 1998 3:00-4:15 CORPORATE SPORTS MARKETING CUBA Bill Bund, ABC Sports Greg Via, Vice President, Gatorade9:00 AM -5:30 PM 4:30-5:30 Roundtable discussions with speakers sponsored by the in the Atrium UNDERGRADUATE MARKEll Nli CLUB  

CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PRESENTS . The Fourteenth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality ''Quotidian Mysteries: Laundry, Liturgy and Women's Work'' by • · Kathleen Noms Author of Dakota, The Cloister Walk and (March '98)Amazing Grace: A Vocabulary ofFaith Thursday,April16, 1998 • 7:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Free and Open to the Public (Reception following Presentation) -~­SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE NOTRE DAME, IN  

, 

~­

"' 

..

a u-
r_ page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
looked just likn tlw p,nd of thn ____:.:,:~-------------......:==========:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 

I 
Lacrosse 

I 
continued from page 24 
of the season, it looked as if the Irish were poised to start another one of their scoring streaks that have led tlwm to vjetory several times this year. 
Instead' tlw Orangewomen had plans of going on their own. ending the half with an 81-0 run to take a I4-4 halftime lead. During that stint, five different people scorPd for Syracuse, including the fourth and fifth goals for Szyluk, and tlw Irish were hold seondess for tlw last I'> minutes of the half. 
Thn boginning of the second half 
first. with Syracuse scoring the first throe goals of the half to build thliir biggrlst lead of the game at 17-4. At IY: 13, 27 min­utes after tlw last Notre Dame goal, freshman Lac! O'Shaugnessy scored on a free­position goal to make the score 
17-5. 
The teams traded goals back and forth over the next l Y min­utes, with neither team scoring more than two in a row. 
The Irish got in the last goal, however., With the ball down in the Not~;e Dame area, senior Holly Manthei picked up the groundball and passed downfield to a streaking Sarah LaSueur who went one on one with Syracuse's goalie and beat her with thre~ seconds remaining on the dock. 
"Sarah's goal was important because it shows that we worked hard to the end. It proved we were mentally tough," stated Coyne. 
251-0674 
MATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Au\hentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chef in Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend. IN 
·,·'?:':·">'::~~~#~: ·:-: 

sea .. t;ltlttg l~ft~~:~,~-'~ri•~~~'lltJ·~t~·~•·vit~•~ r attd P .. oft~ssiot~.~!l;*~~opit~s•J~ 
..:q::~~~~: ~~ • 
l '· 

At The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center you'll find high-speed COJPies that no one can match, and you'll get a smile when you walk in the door. Our representatives are easy to approach and eager to help you with all your needs. Our copies are fast and p•rofessional, which means you won't have to worry about how they'll look or if you'll get them on time. Our customers always come first. 
"It was disappointing to lose by 11, because we worked hard in practice and in the game, but we are glad that we made them earn their goals espe­cially in the second half and that we never gave up," added co-captain
Eileen Hegan. 

The team travels to Storrs, Conn., this weekend looking to improve on their 5­I road record against the Huskies. 
The Irish return home for a Sunday morning contest against Gannon. Wins are possibility in both contests if the Irish show the skill and tenacity that was showcased in wins over Ohio State and Davidson. 
Wins in both games will clinch a scc­ond consecutive winning season for the Irish. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Women's Running Club-There's no reason to. run alone l Come join us at 
4:30 p.m. each day in front of the Sorin statue and benefit from a good workout and running companions. All-level female runners are welcome. Call Rene at x2849.or Ashley at x1211 with ques­tions. We are currently looking for a faculty advisor. 
ND Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club -meets every ·sunday at the Hockne Memorial, 10 a.m. to noon in room 219. Please call Teo at 4-3013 or email cteodoro@nd .edu. 
Weekend Racquetball Tournament 
(Qpy SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Phone 631-COPV 
'rill~ (~f)l•Y Sllf)J• 
J)I~I..JlrJ~llS IJf)'I'II f)l~ 'I'III~SI~! Monday -Thursday:7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Quality Copies, 
Quickly!™ 


-Offered Friday and Saturday at the Joyce Center. Matches will begin at 5:50 
p.m. on Friday and 10 a.m. on Saturday. The entry fee is $8. Participants need to register in advance at RecSports. The deadline for register­ing is today at 6 p.m. 
Drop-In Volleyball -HecSports will be sponsoring it every Wednesday and Friday from 8-11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
Drop-In Badminton -HecSports will be sponsoring every Friday !'rom 7-10 
p.m. in the Holfs Sports Hecrcation Center for the rest of the semester. 
Wednesday, April 15, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• SOFTBAll 
Irish sw-eep Seton Hall in conference home opener 
Special to The Observer doubleheader sweep of Big East threw complete-game one-hit 
South Division opponent Seton shutouts for the Irish who 
Notre Dame's softball team Hall on Saturday at Ivy Field. pounded out 21 hits, including opened its home Big East Freshmen pitchers Jennifer four doubles and four triples. schedule with a 7-0 and 8-0 Sharron and Melanie Alkire Freshman Lizzy Lemire 
CALL FOR PAPERS 

IOTH ANNUAL ALL AFRICAN STUDENTS CONFERENCE MAY 8-10, 1998 -UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
"AFRICA AND THE AFRICAN PEOPLES IN THE 21ST CENTURY: THE SECOND STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE" 
The All African Students Conference Committee is soliciting papers for the IOth annual conference to be held May 8-10, 1998 at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana. Papers should provide a scholarly analysis of issues relating to how African Nations. Peoples of Africa and the Diaspora could best achieve a second independence as we move into the 21st Century. A suggested list of sub-themes includes: 
I. Democratization: the State, Civil Society and Political Violence; 
2. 
Prospects for an African Political Ideology; 

3. 
Religion, Culture, and Politics in Africa and the Diaspora; 

4. 
Africa in a Changing Global Economy; 

5. 
Education and Development in Africa and the Caribbean Countries; 

6. 
Women's Role in Leadership and Economic Development; 

7. 
African Child: an Endangered Species; 

8. 
Technology and the Information Highway; 

9. 
Safeguarding African Cultural Heritage; 

10. 
Environmental Poljcy and Environmental Protection. 


However, this list is not exclusive; all papers related to the theme will be considered for presentation. 
The deadline for the submission of an abstract and the tina! paper is April 25, 1998. The abstract (one page) should outline the primary arguments addressed in the final paper. 
All submissions should include a short biographical statement as well as an address, e-mail address, and telephone number for contact purposes. Please send abstracts to: 
All African Students Conference C/0 Guillaume Zounlome P.O. Box 314 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Abstracts may also bee-mailed to: Guillaumc.D.Zounlome.l @nd.edu or faxed to: (219)631-8777. 
For more information please call (219) 272-7449. or refer to the All African Students Conference via the Notre Dame African Students' Association home page located at: http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa. 
g~Uv~illV~ 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
~~tLeOCL~? 
Get your application outside the 
APPLICATIONS DUE
SUB office 
FRIDAY, APRIL 17 

For information or questions, call Jim Bilek at 4-1744 
sparked the Irish offensively in the first game as she hit 3-3 with a triple and four RBI. Freshman Danielle Klayman went 3-3 in the second game with a triple, two runs scored and two RBI. 
. The two wins moved Notre Dame into a tie with Villanova for first in the South Division. Seton Hall and Notre Dame were scheduled to play a dou­bleheader on Wednesday, April 9, and a single game on 
Saturday,  but  rain  on  
Wednesday  shortened  the  
three-game  series  into  a  

Saturday doubleheader. 
Notre Dame improves to 19­18, 6-3 in the Big East while Seton Hall falls to 12-16-1, 0-11 in the conference. 
Sharron faced just three bat­ters over the seven-inning mini­mum in the first game as she allowed just one hit and struck out six Pirates to improve to 8­
6. Marlena Kotynski singled in the fourth inning for Seton Hall's only hit. Pirate freshman Jenn Berghoff took the loss to fall to 6-8 as she allowed seven earned runs on 11 hits in six innings pitch. 
Jenn Giampaolo started Notre Dame off in the first as she walked, stole second, went to third on a wild pitch and scored on a single by Alkire. Giampaolo drove in the second run with a triple to score Klayman for a 2-0 lead in the second inning. Back-to-hack, two-out doubles by Dawn Cunningham ari.d Lisa Tully made it 3-0 in the fourth inning. 
Lemire helped the Irish break open the game in the fifth inning with a two-run triple for a 5-0 Irish lead. She then closed out the scoring with a t.wo-RBI single in the sixth inning. 

In game two, Alkire came within three outs of a no-hitter, allowing only Shye Nakabayashi an infield single in the top of the sixth. She fin­ished with a one-hitter with two walks and two strike outs and faced three-batters over the six-inning minimum. Pirate freshman Misty Jenkins-Beaver went the distance to fall to 5-8, allowing four earned runs on 10 hits. 
Giampaolo sparked the Irish once again in the second game with a triple to lead off the first, followed by an RBI single by Alkire. Klayman later made it 2-0 in the first with a single to send home Amy Laboe, who had walked to reach base. 
Seton Hall threatened to cut the lead in half in the third inning when Jenkins-Beaver walked, went to second on a sacrifice bunt, advanced to third on a groundball but was stranded at third. 
Notre Dame built a 5-0 lead in the fourth as the Irish took advantage of two Seton Hall errors to score three runs on three hits. Klayman tripled home Lemire in the fifth and scored an error for a 7-0 lead after five innings. After Nakabayashi broke up Alkire's no-hit bid in the top of the sixth, Lemire ended the game by the eight-run rule with a sacrifice fly to score Laboe in the bottom of the sixth. 


---~~------------~ 
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
.. • WOM~N's TENNIS 
Notre Dame splits holiday -weekend matches in ACC 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Wrir~r 
The women's tennis team con­tinued its long road str·eak against Atlantic Coast ConfPrence teams by splitting thPir matches with Wake Forest and Duke. 
The Irish scored one of their biggPst wins of the season on Thursday against 11th-ranked Wake Forest. 
Five of the six singles players rt\eorded vietories. as did all thmn doubles teams. 
At first singles, Jennifer Hall scon\d a quirk straight-set victo­ry over Nieola Kaiwai by a 6-2, h-1 margin. Kaiwai is an experi­enced junior who qualified for the NCAAs in both singles and doubles last year. Second singles player Michelle Dasso improved her unbpatpn dual-match rncord to 20-0. with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 win against MariPI Verban. 
Marisa Velasco and Tiffany Gates continued the Irish's win­ning at third and fourth singles. Velasco defPatnd senior captain and reigning ACC champion at fourth singles, Luln Aydin 6-1. 6­
4. Gates bounced back from a lirst set tillbreaknr loss to bnat German l'reshman Dorothee Kurz 6-7. (>-4. 6-1. 
Fmshman Kim Guy made her eollegiatP dPbut at sixth singles a sw:epss. defeating Linn Ullring by a 4-h. (>-4. 6-2 margin. Guy had
, 
been a highly ranked junior play­or prior to coming to Notre Dame. 
Coach Jay Louderbark was elated with his team's pnrf'or­mance. especially Guy and Gates. 
"Every01w played well against Wake Fon~st," said Louderback. "Kim Guy played her first dual match of her earner and showed a lot of character coming back from a set down. Tiffany Gates came back well also from a first set loss." 
The thret• doubles teams were all irnpressivn in victory. Gates and llall teamed up at lirst dou­bles to record a 8-1 victory over Kaiwai and Aydin. The second doubles duo of Dasso and Velasco continued their strong play. beating Milton and Ullring 
8-6. 

The closest match of the day oceured at third doubles. Notre Dame's Kelley Olson and Kelly Zalinski pulled out a 9-7 win against Terri llietch and Jackie llmiston. 
With the NCAAs coming up, eoac.h Louderback sees a vic.tory like the one against Wake Forest as erucial 
"This was a huge win for us," said Louderback. "It will help us with confidence and with the NCM regionals and selections coming soon, a win of this cal­iber is very important. A con­vincing win against a team ranked II th in the country is impressive." 
Saturday, the Irish traveled to Duk11 to take on the third-ranked Blue Devils. This time they wern not as fortunate against top com­petition, sulfering a 8-l defeat. 

Duke features one of the deep­est and most talented teams in the country, evidenced by its runner-up finish in the presti­gious national indoor tourna­ment where it lost to number­one ranked Stanford. The Blue Devils arc 18-3 on the season, with their other losses coming against second-ranked Florida and fifth-ranked Texas. 
Junior all-American Vanessa Webb led the Blue Devils at number OIHl singles, scoring a 6­3, 6-3 vietory against Hall. Webb's impressive credentials indude currently being ranked third in the singles rankings and reaching the quarterfinals of the NCAA singles tournament last year. 
Dasso sull'ernd her first loss of the season against junior Kristin Sanderson in straight sets 6-4, 6­
4. Sanderson is ranked 41st, 


FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 17 & APRIL 18 JOYCE CENTER Men's &Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at k'-=-~z:.:=­Deadline: Wednesday, April 15 

$8.00 Fee 

while Dasso is 19th in the latest singles rankings. 
Notre Dame continw\d to give it all they had in the final four singles matches. Duke's Megan Miller beat Velasco at third sin­gles 6-:~. 6-2, while Gates lost to Karen Goldstein 6-2, 6-4. Miller is only a freshman, but has built an international reputation as one of the brightest young play­ers in the world. 
She has been ranked as high as 19th in the world in junior singles rankings and competed at Wimbledon in 1995 and 1996. 
Fifth singles player Kathy Sell, another freshman, defeated Zalinski in a close match 7-5, 6­2, while Guy lost to Laura Zifilr 6-4, 6-4. Notre Dame's lone win came at third doublns, whern Zalinski and Olson won their sec­ond match of the wneknnd by a 9-7 margin against Ellen McCann~ and Brooke Siebel. 
Despite the loss. Louderback remainnd optimistic. 
"Duke is certainly one of the top teams in the country," said Louderback. "Their eoach said that they played their best mateh of the season against us and I wasn't surprised. They were very impressivn. llowever, we played them dose and if we play them again at tim NCAA's, it won't bt~ their honw match and I'd be sur­prised if' tlwy played as well as they did on Saturday. I think our team is still very much ready for the sllason-nnding tournarnenL<>." 
.,.:.EARN CASH BY 
.. 
DONATING 
You could earn: 

$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$I 500 if you donate alone (first visit) +$ 500 if you show college J.D. (first visit) 
$2QOO TOTAL! 
+$1 ooo per person if you recru1t someone and they donate twice 
HELP US SAVE LIVES 
Must be 18 y~ars old; proof of current adrlress with photo I.D. 
Come to: 
AMEHIC:AN BIOMEDICAL 
515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 4()601-1117 

r.-.,.-~····­
...'·. 


Co-sPONSORED BY THE OuN FouNDATION 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
Moral Truth and the Common Good of Political Society 
Thursday and Friday, 
April16-17, 1998 

Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Thursday. April 1&. 1998 Frida~April17.1998 
4p.m. 9a.m. 
Religion and PractlCIII Reason Liberalism and Perfectionism 
Joseph Boyle Peter de Marnefle 
Princ1pal at St. Michael's Collage, Assoc1ate Professor of Ph1losDphy at 
University of Toronto ----~.. Arizona Stat~ Un1versny and ._,_ Fellow in EthiCS at Harvard Umvers1ty 
_ _10:30a.m. -.···.... ;.;r.;.:.~•.l-Truth, Disagreement and Judicial Review Jeremy Waldron 
Maunce and Hilda Fnedman Professor of 
law at Columbia law School 
2p.m. 
The c.thollc Church and Deliberations About Public Policy in Modem Democracies 
·John Finn is 
Professor of Law and Legal Philosophy ati Oxf~rd Univeraity and Siolchmi Family / !ro~s~or of Law at Notre Dame Law School 
' 
Hours: 
Tu-F: 9:00-6:00 
Sat: 8:00-5:00 234-6010 

.. 

Wednesday, April 15, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• Boox:srortE BASKETBALL XXV!~ 
Younger teams taking control S 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Editor 
Youth seemed to run rampant on Stepan Courts·yesterday. 
Some of the new teams looked sharp and outwitted the upper­classmen. Ill Tempered Sea Bass dismissed DUl and 15th-ranked In Memory of McConn advanced. 
Four freshman and a senior from Dillon surprised the sopho­more team of DUI. lll Tempered Sea Bass and DUI put on a strong show initially, drawing a sizable crowd. 
"We wern going for an intense game and a big crowd," fresh­man James Crinion said. "We were glad to see people come out. It motivates us to play hard­er." 
It was the freshmen's first game, but the senior leadership of Brian Gaffud calmed his anx­ious teammates. After a close first half, Ill Tempered Sea Bass pulled away in the second. They went on a four-point run in the second to give them a 15-9 lead. 
"It was all Brian Gaffud," freshman James Crinion said. "He took the game to a different level. We are playing for Gaffud because he is the lone senior on the team. Our motto is win one 



The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The 1998 Natural Law Lecture 
Religion and Practical Reason 
~~-­\_·:;:~ .~· 
'-._~.~ 
~;·,~:, 
, ::. ,.
1 
1

t...<4-­
\ 
\ ;-.•"·./ 
r ..~
\ 
-. " 
f.:;rt 
r-r •o: ·­
tr 
g;. 

·'ir 

*The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year · Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
~..:Jo~eph Boyle 
t, 
~ ..., 
r 
~ "· . •,1;;..-­

\ ~=~!::e Law School 
Principal at St. Michael's College, University of Toronto 
,' -t I 
; ~ \ , l ·~ I \ . \ . 

T~u-r~day~iA~(il 16, 1998 
i"p·r;;;·~::.­

for Gaffud." ~~~lf~..L!:~~____j Freshmen David Hynds, Thomas Slabach, and Matt Yung all chipped in hugely. The team's fast-paced offense and passing ability overwhelmed DUI. While Ill Tempered Sea Bass controlled the pace of the second half, DUI still played an intense defense. This game proved to be a physical one. Both teams lost sight of the fouls as this contest went on. "I don't think we were used to calling them," Crinion replied about the lack of foul calling. Despite the !1agrant fouls, Ill Tempered Sea Bass advanced, 21-14. Annual favorite Dos Goldkamps playnd in Saranwrap and clear packing tape, follow­ing up last year's game played in duct tape. Dos Goldkamps' oppo­nent, Big Head Jeff and the Monsters, were not deterred by the clear costumes and advanced. In Memory of McConn encoun­

Chektostal. The 15th-ranked forth struggle in the first half. It team faced an intense back-and-proved to be a surprising game 
in ·the early rounds with the 
-, 


OTREDAME MPONSQVAP 
will be holding TRYOUTS for the 1998-1999 Squad! 
April16 -April 20 
COME TO THE FIRST 

• 
ranked team dueling against a Cinderella hopeful. 
"We knew a couple of the guys so we knew they were going to be tough," junior Scott Panichelli, member of In Memory of McConn said. "They were a little surprising. 
"Mostly we talked about hus­tling more and getting rebounds. This is only the second time we have played together. We were trying to get in the flow." 
Freshman B.J. Kloska looked sharp, sinking a majority of the team's second half points. The second half is what secured the win for the seeded team. Chektostal watched as the rebounds and the shots did not fall their way. The 8-1 run made by In Memory of McConn proved too much for their opponents, and they advanced, 21-13. 

.... 
• 
..~~......~....~..~..--~------~....................~----------~·~~~~--------~----~----------~----~~-----------­
page 22 
,. 
• SAiNll MARY's TRACK 

Pr~ctice pays off for a few Belles 
By JANICE WEIERS 
Spons Writer 
The Saint Mary's tracksters faePd a tough meet Saturday at Calvin College. 
Tlw reason'? Thny headed into compntition with only four B1~llns; hownvnr. they still made tlwir mark. 
Junior Stacy Davis made the most of lwr lirst outdoor track nwet this season by taking home two lirst place linishes. With a time of 12.64, Davis beat out opponents from Alma College and Calvin College in the I 00-mctnr event. She erushed the opposition again in the 200-meter with a timn of 25.96. 
Junior Sarah Gallagher chalked up a time of 31.51 in the 200-meter dash while also competing in the I 00-yard hurdles. 
"The hard work we've put into practice is really starting to pay off," said Gallagher. "Bncause there are so few people. we all have to work harder for recognition among the otlwr schools." 

Sophomore Allyson Treloar received blue-ribbon honors al'ter launching the javelin towards a mark of 113 feet. Treloar also leads the Belles with 35 total points. And after setting a new personal best of 120 feet. 3 inches last WPdnesday. Treloar is not stopping there. 
''I've been throwing the javelin since sophomore year in high school and up until now. my goal has been 120 feet," said Treloar. "Now, my new goal is to break the school record." 
With a little over two sea­sons left in her college career and her best throw a little under four feet shy of the school mark, she has plenty of meets left for shattering records. 
Sophomore Sharis Long landed a second place finish in the 400-meter hurdles with a personal-best time of 1:15.53. 
"We have worked hard in practice and it really showed in our performances," said Long. "I think everyone was pretty pleased." 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need!· 
Spring Reading Sale! 
20% OFF EVERY TITLE THROUGH MAY 1. 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown South Bend. Open 10-5, Monday-Friday. 
Always discounts for ND/SMCfaculty & students! 

Spaf?hetti Rigatoni Pizza Cajfelatte Lasagna Tiramisu Arugula Cappuccino Risotto Chianti Biscotti Pane Italiano Pesto Marinara Fettucine 
If you like to eat and drink well, you already speak our language. 
Summer Classes in I tali an 9 credits in 6 1/2 weeks! 
ROIT 101  June 6-July 7  
ROIT 102  July 8-July 21  
ROIT 103  July 22-August 5  

Fulfills Arts and Letters Language requirement. For more information, contact Mrs. Mangione at 631-7485 or Summer Session, 631-7282. 
The Observer· SPORTS 
Track 
continued from page 24 
sprinting squad, the 4x1 00­meter relay team took first with the second-fastest time. in Notre Dame history. 
Top finishes in the field events included Jennifer Engelhardt's victory in the high jump with a jump of 5 feet, 9 and 3/4 inches, only one-quar­ter inch off her personal record, a second place by Bethany Wilson in the pole vault with a personal best by three inches of 9 feet, 9 inches and a win by Chris Smith in the men's javPlin throw. 
"I thought it was great," said Wilson. "It was a really good day for me." 
Most of the men's distance crew sat the weekend out, although Mike Conway did run 
3:52 in the 1,500-meter run and Phil Mishka took third in the 800-mcter run. On the women's side. Erin Luby ran the best time of her career (4:38) in tak­ing third in the 1,500-meter run, Nicole LaSelle won the 3,000-meter run in her first race back since a cross country injury, and freshmen Bridget O'Brien and Erin Olson ran well in the 5,000-meter run. 
"It just felt incredibly good to be racing again," said LaSe lie. "It was encouraging to know "Our whole foeus was just to 


Other teams in the meet get kids prepared for the Big included Miami, Central East meet [May 2-31 and in to Michigan, Western Michigan, the proper races," said Paine. 

-FOR the EDUCATION aud 
R 
or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, we recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are tax­deferred annuities that can help you build additional assets-money that can make the difference between living and living ll'rll in retirement. Contributions to SRAs are conveniently deducted from your salary on a pretax basis. The result'/ More money im·ested. Fewer taxes now And since investment earnings are tax deferred until you rcceiYe them as income, the money you don't send to \Vashington can work even harder f'01· you. ofyour linancial objectives. with IRAs. mutual funds, and more. We'll help you select the solutions that suit your needs. Visit your benefits office or call us at 
1800 842-2776 to learn more. 
Do it today-it couldn't hur·t. 

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 

'"'llas.l·clun .tsst•t,. umlt•t tn,ut.tgt'llll'lll 'J'I \.\.(.REF lndi\'ttlual.uul (n,.IIIUitOtl<ll Sc.•t' ,,,.,. cltstnltult·~ CHI·:F tcnilit<&ll'" .mclmll't'<'sls in till' Tl \ \ Rt•.tl Est.llt' ,.\,, ••Unl. Fur mm·,· nllllJ'I''h.' utluntl.lltun. uwluJing ,·hargt·s .md t'.'i\}1.'1\St's.t·,,ll I XOO X4:!-:!1~.~. t''il. :"t{,l)l}, lnr the Jllnspt·t·tu,.t•s.J(,·,ultlh'rn till't'lulh lw!Or,• .' ou inn•!i.t ur 1>\'lld mum·y 111~ 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
THIS CATS LON6, SHARP 
1iSnl COCJL.t;) -mAR Rt&Hr 1HRO~ CA'J~ 

DILBERT 
E 0 YOU TREATE.O
I

I'M COLLECTING FOR 
ME LIKE OIP..T. I fiNO "<OU GUILTY AND I FIN£. 'VOU FIV£. OOLLAR5. 

EO'S FAREWELL Gin. 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
MIKE PETERS 
GRtMM,~Ke 
~ose CHOPSTICKS 
ourO'F AiTILAs 
MOUTH! 
SCOTT ADAMS 
u 
I J"U5T
= 
PUT THAT
-~ 
-g 
IN THERE.. 
"'. ~ 
COME BACK
~ 
... . 
IF 'VOU GE.T 
"C 
~ 
.< MORE. 
:::> )
., 
a> 
~~~..(.._-­


ACROSS 1 Garbage boat 5lngrid's "Casablanca" role 91.0.U.'s 14 Singer Guthrie 15 "Get a-of that!" 16 Nouveau-­17 Nightgown-clad nursery-rhyme character 20 Reverse image, for short 21 --the lily 22 Be present at 23 Grow dim 24 Jackie's second husband 25 Heavens 26Saying of Caesar 31 Banishment 
32 Put on 33 No, to Nikita 37 Towering 381tem 40 Snapshot, Mad. 
Ave.-style 41 Captain Hook's 
assistant 42 Tic-tac-toe win 43 Nearsighted Mr. 441960 
Terry-Thomas film farce 48 Tie the knot 51 Fleur-de-­52 Bloody 
53 Twenty questions category 
55 Concerning 56 Alternative to a subway 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
59 Shakespearean comedy (original spelling) 
62 Smooth and glossy 
63 Persian sprite 
64 Brainstorm 
65 "-Ia vista, baby!" 66 Former spouses 67 Bruce or Laura of Hollywood 
DOWN 
1 Cut, as a log 2 Prairie Indian 3 Designer 
Cassini 4 "Unbelievable!" 5 Fighting-­
(Big Ten team) 6 Lounged 
around 7 Port-, Egypt a Summer cooler 
9 Rex Reed, e.g. 10 Help for the puzzled 
Harold 12 Use your brain 13 Squalid 18 "-atthe 
office" 19 Bandleader Fred 23 Actor Dafoe 
cosmetics company 
dachshunds 27 Quiz 


47 Action star 54 Encounter Chuck 
55 Wild goat 48 Fermer 49ers 
56 Presage
coach Bill 57 Exploiter
49W.W.II's­
58 Getz or Kenton
Gay 60 Imitate
50 Jackknife and others 61 Pot top 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

page 23 YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Some of the infor­mation you've received may be in error. Check it out before you base any deci­sions on it. By this after· noon, the truth should be 'apparent. 
Taurus: There's still talk 
going on behind the scenes. 
Yesterday there was more 
speculation than fact. Now 
it looks like the other way 
around. Stay tuned in, so 
you don't accidentally make 
a move in the wrong direc­
tion. 

Gemini: There's too much 
for you to do it by yourself, 
and there's no point in try­
ing. You'll just make the 
problem bigger. You need to 
divide this chore up among 
several people. 
Cancer: The workload is 
intense, but you're learning 
a great deal. There are 
changes underway and you 
need to be alert in order to 
use them to your advantage. 
You'll also need to use skills 
you're learning. 
Leo: Finally, conditions 
are getting better. You're in 
a good mood, and so is the 
one you love. If you don't 
have a sweetheart, you 
could be in for a big sur­
prise. 

Virgo: You and your mate 
-and any roommates you 
might have -are stirring 
things up at home. It's dis­
ruptive, but exciting. It's 
nice to see the change 
occurring that you've been 
looking forward to for so 
long. 

Libra: A surprising devel­
opment this morning could 
really tickle your funny 
bone. Don't create a disrup­tion. There's still work to be done, and you're a rather high profile character. 
Scorpio: A co-worker you've been hassling with seems to have the advan­tage. The good news is that more money is coming in, and soon. All the effort you've been putting in lately is starting to be acknowl­edged. 
Sagittarius: You're much stronger, and it looks like you're winning. Don't lose track of what you're doing, however. Gather all the information you can to sup­port your idea. The details will do the convincing. 
Capricorn: A secret 
you've been looking for is 
starting to emerge. This 
could actually be a treasure, 
but it might simply be a 
memory you've been 
repressing. If you've been 
wondering why you behave 
a certain way, maybe you're 
about to find out. 
Aquarius: One thing 
you're learning is how to 
get more money. Actually, 
even if you had plenty, 
you'd find ways to spend 
more. That's because you 
have big ideas. You don't 
need a loan. You need a 
federal grant. And that 
could be exactly what 
you're learning how to get. 
Pisces: Others rely on you 
when the going gets tough. 
That's because you're sym­
pathetic and always seem to 
try to help others. That's 
going to be very much 
appreciated now. 

• 
• OF INTEREST "Can the European Union Finally Become a Democracy?": Michael Greven will speak on this topic this afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in Room 103 Hesburgh Center, sponsored by The Nanovic Institute for European Studies. The Center for Social Concerns and the South Bend Heritage Foundation are sponsoring a lecture entitled, "Religious Perspectives· on Economic Justice: Work, Welfare and Poverty" by John Carr, Secretary of the Department of Social Development and World Peace for the U.S~ Catholic Bishops, today at 4:05 p.m. in Room 124 of the CSC. Job Search Beyond Campus Interviews will be pre­sented today by Judy Goebel, Career and Placement Services in 117 DeBartolo from 6:30-8 p.m. Learn how to identify and when to contact prospective employers not visiting campus. Realize the impor­tance of networking, approach, follow up, and effec­tive written tools. All students are welcome and Arts and Letters majors are encouraged to attend. Gustavo Gallon from the Kellogg Institute will pre­
sent a seminar on "Dealing with Gross Human Rights Violations of the Past: The Case of Columbia," today at 
12:30  p.m.  in  C-103  Hesburgh  Center  for  
International Studies.  
•MENU  
North  South  
Grilled Ham Steak  Chicken Tetrazzini  
Chili  Pork Fried Rice  
French Dip Sandwich  Grilled  Cheddar  on  
Chicken Tetrazzini  Sourdough  
Grilled Salmon Fillet  Chicken Patty  

Sorosky's Onion Bread 
28 Cairo's river 29 Dialect 30 Odious 

reputation 34 Berra or Bear 35 Prince William's 
school 36 Grabbed 38 "-a 

Mockingbird" 39 Works in the 
garden 43 French mothers 45 Where Nome is 
home 46 Pay no heed to 


•
GETTING DRUNK IS LIKE A COMPUTER VIRUS 
1. 
Your system might crash and cause serious damage. 

2. 
Important information may get distorted or lost. 

3. 
Your system might suddenly and unexpectedly purge itself. 

4. 
You may lose something important such as a project or a relationship. 

5. 
You can't just escape (esc) from either one. 

6. 
This problem may infect or affect others. 


.... 
7. Too much of either one will cause serious problems. Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, April 15, 1998 
• VOLLEY!iJALL 
Scri0101age provides chance to test new scoring rules 
By BILL HART Assist;UH Spoats FJiwr 
WhiiP it may bn stwPral months away, it is nPvPr too Parly to start thinking about next sPason. 
ThP NotJ·p DanH' wompn's vollnyball team will havP that chanr.P this twPning, with a two-hour srrimmagP against the Michigan WolvPrirws in "tlw Pit" at tlw Joyce CPntPr. 
Tlw two tPams will rompPtP as part of' a nationwidP study by thn NCAA. in which a rwwly·proposnd rally scoring format will be introducPd. In rally scoring. a point would be awardPd for either u~arn following nvery sPrvP. UndPr tiH' nrrn•nt NCAA scoring sys­tPm, points arP awardl'd only to the serving tPam, with rally scoring irnplnmentml only in the twent of a deciding fifth game. 
"Tiw new systPm will havn its good points and its had points," !wad coac.h Debbie Brown said about thP proposod format. "There will bo somP rndical changes that will take some gt>tting usnd to, so this is a good idPa by the NCAA to test tlw different options. A Jot of' warns will gnt thP chances to try it and then discuss thn pros and r.ons." 
ThnH' rally-scoring formats are being tested at st~lect schools throughout the nation this spring. with tlw NCAA using n~commenda­tions from those schools to arrivn at a final decision on changing the format. At the pre­sent tinw. tlw changns would takn effect at the start oJ the 1999 season, instead of the 199R regular season or NCAA Championships. 
In the format played out in tlw serimmagP tonight, the first two games will be played out to 50 points. with a team needing to win by two points to take the game. The two teams will switch over when the leading team rnaches 25 points, and automatic 45-second timeouts will occur when the leading team reaches 15 and 40 points. Eaeh team will have ont~ additional timeout. If the match is tied after the first two games. a 10-minute intermission will precede a 15-point, win-by­two tiebreaking game, with a 45-second time­out when the leading team reaches eight points. 
"Tiw primary benefits of the rally scoring are that it will make the time frame more predictable," Brown remarked. "The game will be more exciting with a point awarded on every sPrve. For me, it's a little tough to envi­sion the change b<~causc it is a departure from traditional def'Pnsive strategy where you earned the side out and then served for points. 
"But I think the NCAA realized it was time l'or a change," Brown continued. "Rally scor­ing will also make college volleyball much more attractive for television broadcasts, whir.h is something that can only help the growth of the sport." 
The scrimmage against the Wolverin1~s will begin this evening at 7 p.m. in "the Pit" betwePn the north and south domes of the .Joyce Center. 

Senior Angie Harris (6) will not get a chance to participate in the NCAA's experiment with rally scoring throughout volleyball matches. 
• TRACK ANO f!ElO

• • WOMEN'~ lACROSSE 
Williams

lrisll unable to handle Syracuse's speed 
runs best 

By GENE BRTv\LIK 
Spun' Writer 
time again 

SpPPd kills: The wonwn's lanossn tPam; found out first ~Htnd how tru1 that statPmPnt By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
IS. , Sports Writer 
On Saturday, tlu• Irish lost to the SyranrsP: Orangnwomen .J us t w lw n it s 111~ 111 e d I i k n 20-1) in a gan)P betwl'en two Errol Williams had n~adwd his l'!Pdgling women's laerosse peak. lw surprised onlookers programs. with yPt anotlwr breakthrough 
In its first V11ar of existPnce, performance. 
Syrantse (7~:{) was expected Williams, a s1mior and indoor to ex1wri<~IH~<~ 1the sanw prob­all-American, ran his best time IPms tlw Irish and !wad eoaeh of the yPar in tl1<~ II 0-mi'!Pr .. Tracy Coyne had in tlwir first hurdles at tlw Miami (Ohio) year. But al'tnr SJH'nding the Invitational Saturday. I lis time pasI y<~a r with thP team, of 13.h5 is an NCAA automatic Syracuse ht·ad coach l.isa qualifying time which sprints Miller rncruitnd 17 freshmen and hurdles eoach .John Millar and her uppt~rrlassmPn are ealle~ "the highlight of the sonw of tlw best in the coun­meet. try. Miller's 1tnam used its "Errol Williams is now sp1wd and lwi~ht to defeat the ranked third in the country, so Irish (6-4). he ran very well," said Notre "Their speed kill1~d us, and Dame track and field coach Jon tlwy capital~z()d on our Piano. "We were v1~ry plnas1~d turnovers," Co~ne cornmentNI. with his performance." "WP didn't gt;t Pnough shots .Junior Nadia Sehrniedt also and tlwy WPre hgood shooting was at the top or her stride, IPam." winning both the 400-mPter Tlw ganw st<\rted oiT as if it run and 400-mcter hurdles, was going to lw another close with her best time of the snason battle~ for thr Irish. Aft1~r (59.94) in tlw hurdles. .Jennif'Pr Szyluk scon~d tlw l'irst Fmshman Carrie Lenz took sec­
Holly Michael (12) and the Irish could not keep up with speedy Syracuse, losing a 20-9 decision over the
• goal 41J sPconds into the game. ond behind Schmindt in thn
weekend to another young program in the Big East.
Notre Danw junior co-captain 400-rneter run, while senior Kt~rry Callahan ISCOrt~d the first Berit Junker was right on her of lwr four goals on a free-position shot lead. Callahan responded again pulling After Callahan completed the natural heels in the hurdles at just over and tied the game at one. the Irish within one, but the hat trick and freshman Courtney 60 seconds. On the rnnn 's 
Syracuse answered Callahan's goal Orangeworncn netted two more goals and Calabresr, scored her twenty-second goal 

with two straight. jumping out to a 3-1 increased their lead to four. 
see LACROSSE/ page 18 see TRACKJ page 22
-

vs. Purdue, Track~: Today, 6 p.m. 
• 
a;
at Mt. SAC Invitational, 
•Young teams prevail in Bookstore 
Walnut, Calif. 
vs. Butler (DH), 
'f1w 

Friday-Sunday ~ see page 21
Thursday, 4 p.m. at Michigan, 
• • ~ •
Men's Golf at Ohio State 

riJ •ND baseball wins sixth in a row
.~ Thursday, 2 p.m. 

y 
Intercollegiate see page 16
Saturday and Sunday at Connecticut, 
Friday, 3 p.m. 






