
Wednesday, January 28, 1998• Vol. XXXI No. 79 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ClintOn delivers State of the Union address 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS
Seemingly undistracted Kaplan: Clinton seeks
by allegations ofa White bipartisan support
House sex scandal, Clinton 
By SEAN VINCK News Writer

focuses on domestic and 
The State of the Union report is the only
; 
·' 
constitutionally required act for the president

foreign policy issues 
of the United States to perform. It is a specta­cle of unique grandeur that unites peopleBy JIM ABRAMS from all political parties and all levels of gov­
Associated Press Writer ernment. 
President Bill Clinton addressed a joint ses­WASHINGTON sion o_f Congress on Tuesday evening, focus­Shaken by scandal, President Clinton sought 
ing on the government's proper role and
to reassert his leadership in a crucial State of America's position in the 21st century, point­
the Union address Tuesday night, urging 
edly avoiding, however, any mention of theCongress to "save Social Security first" before recent sex scandal and issues of family val­cutting taxes or increasing spending. 
ues.

With the end of big budget defieits, Clinton Clinton first discussed the positive financial
said "every penny of any surplus" should be 
news that indicates a strong economic perfor­devoted to shoring up Social Security, which mance.
fan~s bankruptcy next century as baby 
"We have the smallest government in 35
boomers retire. 
years," said Clinton. "The deficit when I took H.-publicans are eyeing the surpluses for tax office was projected to be $357 billion.... It isI cuts.
I 
now expected to be $10 billion and falling....
Heplying to Clinton, Senate Majority Leader I will submit the first balanced budget in 301-Trent Lott said the best thing Washington can 
years for 1999."
do is "cut the ta~ burdens on the American
~ 
family." AFP Photo The balanced budget that is expected to occur in the next few years by administration
f' In an expectant atmosphere, Clinton faced 
' THESE ARE GOOD TIMES FOR AMERICA .... economists has set off a contentious debate
probably the largest television audience of his among Democrats and Republicans about the
THE STATE OF OUR UNION IS STRONG.' 
-----------·------­
see CLINTON I page 6 see ANALYSIS I page 6 
~ 
• ElECTION '98 
With help of ND grad, local man joins race 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Ediwr-in-Chief 
MISHAWAKA 

Elkhart resident Dan Holtz. in a campaign coordinated by a reeent Notre Dame graduate, announced his candidacy for Indiana's T h i. r d Congressional District last night. 
lloltz, a HPpublican. will be run­
ning against _ Democratic Holtz incumbent Tim Hoerner. Speaking in front 
of a backdrop of gold and blue at Mishawaka's Knights of Columbus llall, Holtz broadly outlined his platform for the coming election. 
"I fundamentally believe that taxPs arc too high," Holtz said, tying his plan for lower income tax rat!~s to a proposed reduc­tion in government spending. "Some programs that sounded good in the 1930s or 1970s don't add real value to the lives of citizens today." 
Holtz also briefly touched on three other basic issues, calling for a restoration of integrity among politicians, an increased government commitment to reducing crime rates, and greater local control of the edu­cation system. 
"[Educational! reforms fail when the focus is on giving 

__....._____J 

bureaucrats more control and more test scores. Reforms work when the focus is on classrooms and parents," he said. "Sure, teachers should meet strict standards on the subjects they teach, but then we should let them teach." 
Holtz, who is not related to the former Notre Dame football coach, graduated from Indiana University in 1995 and the London School of Economics in 1989. He also earned a mas­ter's or business administration from the University of Chicago in 1990. 
Holtz's campaign coordinator, Dan Vcntrelle, graduated from Notre Dame last month after majoring in government. He was president of Pi Sigma Alpha, the government honor society, during his senior year. 
Ventrelle, a former Stanford Hall resident, began working on Holtz's campaign earlier this month. Although Holtz is seek­ing to unseat a congressman who is now in his fourth term, Ventrellc said the campaign stafl' is confident as the election race begins. 
"We're excited and encour­aged about the enthusiasm that we've received from the various communities within the dis­trict," Ventrelle said. 
Hoerner, who was first elected to the House in 1990, also has a connection to Notre Dame. He holds master's and doctorate degrees in international affairs from the University. 

By SARAH DYLAG News Writer 
Dr. Jeffrey Satinover, psy­chiatrist, psycho-analyst, and author of the book, "Homosexuality and the Politics of Truth," addressed the debate over the nature of homosexuality last night in his lecture, "Homosexuality and the Politics of Science." 
Explaining that there is a "whole story about the nature of homosexuality ­what it is, what causes it, and whether it is natural or not," Satinover sought to show why the popular view of homosexuality as a genet­ic disorder is false. 
"Homosexuality is not genetic and not innate. It occurs over a number of years in a certain environ­ment," he said. 
According to Satin over. "an individual raised in a tough environment who is sensitive and intelligent" is more at risk to have his "biological instincts turned away from what is natural." 
"What you have out there is a popular conception that homosexuality is genetic and that there is no scientific disagreement about it. But the evidence lines up on the other side and if there is any consensus, it is on the other side," he stated. 
Satinover explained that 
the current scientific evi~ dence on the nature of homosexuality comes from three general types of tests -twin tests, brain structure tests, and chromosomal linkage tests. The first type of test. twin studies, result­ed in the widely reported claim that homosexuality is a largely genetic phenome­non. 
However, Satinover believes that these conclu­sions were based on distinc­tions in terminology that are not made clear to the gener­al public. 
"None of the presentations I have seen have quoted the 
see GENETIC I page 6 


Wednesday, January 28, 1998

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
1 
He's going the 
distance 

Group investigates race as a factor in Michigan admissions 

"You're what?" Anthony Bianco 

"Going out with her." I Sporrs Writer 
say. "I don't get it. 
You're here, and she's well, not." 
This dialogue comes up just about every 

time I bring up the fact that I have a girl­
friend who does not attend the University of 
Notre Dame. Or Saint Mary's. Or any other 
college, high school, grade school, or retire­
ment home in the area for that matter. 
Hather, the one I love lives five hundred-plus 
miles away, in New York. 
After explaining the ins and outs of it, the 

dialogue usually concludes with an ''I'm 
sorry" from the guys who pity me for having 
such a heavy ball-and-chain, or. a "that's so 
romantic" from the girls who are amazed by 
our relationship. 
Either way, neither group can really under­
stand what Lisa and I feel for each other. If 
they have ever felt that way about someone, 
then being so close despite being so physical­
ly separated would not be a problem. The 
bottom line is, I guess I'm crazy. Crazy for 
her. 
I know what you're thinking now. Here's 

another pair of those freshman with a home­
town honey who promised each other last 
August before going away to school that 
they'd always be together. They've promised 
they'd visit each other at school, but before 
long, like most of the other long-distance 
relationships, they'll realize it's way too diffi­
cult to continue, and decide to break up. And · 
this will happen to you too, Anthony. One 
day, you'll want·to break away from her so 
you can dive into the pool of singles at Notre 
Dame. 
First ofT, that's almost a contradiction in 

terms. Breaking up so I could be an eligible 
male at Notre Dame is like letting a horse out 
of its corral so it can enter a slaughterhouse. 
But seriously, the fact is that Lisa and I did 

not make that promise in August. Both of us 
entered college without any preconceived 
romantic ideals. It wasn't until a couple of 
months into the semester and being apart 
that we both realized being together is what 
we wanted. We experienced a whole new 
school of people and still came to the conclu­
sion that we are perfect for each other, 
despite the distance. 
Let me be the first to say that it doesn't 

always come up roses. The roses, by the way, 
aren't necessarily a plus in a long distance 
relationship-1-800-FLOWERS is way too 
expensive and being so far apart, their bene­
fits aren't always apparent to me, and there­
fore, expendable. 
A long-distance relationship is definitely 

not easy. The only thing you expect from for­
mals and SYRs is the drinking, you spend 
most of your free time working for CBLD so 
you can talk to her every once in a while, and 
the only thing you get your lips on in a trip to 
Bridgets' is whatever beer's on draft. 
So if you ever get into a conversation with 

someone as crazy as me, be prepared. Guys, 
there's no chance -no matter how far away 
her boyfriend is, or so they tell me. 
More importantly, remember that they're 

crazy, they're not all there. Their heart 
belongs with another, some distance away. 
When I weigh the options, being apart is 

the least important factor. I would go through 
a whole lot more for her. without a doubt. 
But maybe that's just because I'm crazy. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Christine Kraly Sean Smith Heather MacKenzie Sports Brian Kessler Viewpoint Kelly Brooks Accent Rachel Torres  Graphics Jon King Production Mark DeBoy Lab Tech Joe Stark  

Th~ Obs~rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday nccpt during ~xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are re•~rved. 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
The Center for Equal Opportunity. a Washington D.C.-based think-tank, published a report on the use of race as a factor in admissions procedures at Michigan public colleges and higher education institutions, stating that the university uses racial crite­ria more than any other state school. 
"This is a project we started work­ing on over two years ago," said Jorge Amselle, communications director for CEO. "We're trying to find out if there are racial prefer­ences in public education, and how great these racial preferencesare." 
The center has conducted similar studies in California and is currently doing research in North Carolina. Virginia and Washington. 
The report includes admissions data from eight of Michigan's public universities, including the Ann Arbor and Dearborn campuses and 

"We're only trying to look at things we can measure," Amselle said in regard to the information included in the report. 
But university officials said they do not agree with the conclusions CEO drew from the report, stating that without race as a factor in admis­sions, black enrollment would fall significantly, but higher education would remain integrated. 
"There may be somewhat fewer minorities admitted, but it would not segregate the schools," Amselle said. 
Provost Nancy Cantor said that in order to address the report, univer­sity officials would be forced to assume CEO"s "narrowed view of university admissions." 
"( think this is, in many respects, far from the unbiased report it claims to be," Cantor said at a press conference yesterday. "We do not judge the content or the character of our students in a single test." 
But Cantor said information on graduation rates of minority stu­dents in the report put the university in a positive light. 
"The University of Michigan is graduating minority students at a vastly greater rate than [another university] that supposedly shows no racial preference," Cantor said. "This report shows a shocking resolve to allow 'the only highly selective university in the state' to become a segregated institution." 
• PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Princeton to change its loan policy 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
In a move that executive vice president of finance and administration Donald Reaves termed "revolutionary," Princeton University will make sweeping changes to its financial aid policy, replacing loans with grant money for lower income students and discounting home equity for students on financial aid. "It's as big a thing as has hap­pened in the Ivy League as I can remember," said dean of admissions Michael Goldberger. Under the plan, stu­dents whose families make under $40,000 will see their loans replaced by grant. money, which does not have to be paid back. Those whose families make between $40,000 and $57,500 will have part of their loans 
• replaced by grants. ~·our principal aims are to do as much as we can to be sure that no student decides not to apply to Princeton solely for financial reasons," said Princeton president Howard T. Shapiro in a press release. 
• BROWN UNIVERSITY 

Police, student reports differ on skirmish 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Two conflicting stories have emerged regarding a physi­cal conflict that occurred around 5 a.m. on Saturday, Jan. 24, between a Brown student and a university police and security officer. According to reports from Providence Police, Benjamin J. Wearing '00 engaged in violent and dis­ruptive behavior when confronted by a Brown police and security officer and three EMTs who had arrived to treat Wearing for intoxication. Wearing was arrested and charged with simple assault and disorderly conduct. However, Wearing and eyewitness Kristy Troup '00 told a different story. According to the two students, Brown offi­cers were unnecessarily rough with an innocent, bewil­dered student, shoving and cursing at him. Troup was the one who placed the call to the Police Security and Rescue Team. She said she called at the urging of Health Services, who treated an intoxicated friend of Wearing's earlier that night. Troup said that Health Services expressed concern about Wearing, who had also been drinking heavily. 
• UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA 
New groups oppose North Dakota logo 
GRAND FORKS, N.D. 

Hockey fans found out last Friday that it's not just UND that's been embroiled in a debate about the Fighting Sioux moniker. A news conference and rally ·to protest UND's use of the name Fighting Sioux was organized by a St. Cloud State University group called First People before SCSLI and UND faced ofT last Friday night. "People often ask us, 'Don't you have more important things to worry about?' Of course we have much bigger issues," said Vernon Bellecourt, a member of the National Coalition Against Hacism In Sports and Media (NCARSM). 'The problem is when we speak of these other issues, reporters put away their notebooks away and photographers put away their cameras. Hight now the issue of using humans as mascots is a trendy issue. That's why you're all here," he said. In an attempt to keep things focused on the issue of the Fighting Sioux logo, posters and signs were displayed in the Atwood student union with examples of team names of past professional teams. 
• INDIANA UNIVERSITY IU frat to change image and reputation 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Kappa Sigma fraternity is working to develop a new defin­ition of fraternity life at IU. Monday and continuing through Feb. 12, representatives from Kappa Sigma's national fra­ternity are in Bloomington trying to begin a new era of the fraternity, which has been on campus for 110 years. They are taking drastic steps to ensure the verbal and physical abuse once normal in greek life is no longer acceptable in their house. Senior Steve Steinhagen, the chapter's presi­dent, wants to set a new standard on campus. "The reason for the restructuring is that we want to take a direction to be one of the fraternities that takes the lead instead of one that follows," he said. With small pledge classes in the past few years. Kappa Sigma had seen its numbers decline. In the 1995-96 academic year, there were about 70 members liv­ing in the house at 1411 N. Jordan Ave. tn the fall, only 40 men, roughly half of the house's capacity, were living there. The decreasing membership was a factor in the reorganiza­tion ofthe chapter. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 28.
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

·--·· H 

L 
.

Wedne$day a 46 35 
' 
~ 
' 

Frida¥ ~ 34 22 
~ 

Saturday u 40 31 
-~...
;!. ) 
Pressure 

H L EJ5S11TIJ 0~ Qi) ~~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY

Sunday u......... 40 31 
:,'" ~·."\. r.._.., :'/'\r~
,"IJ .• -.,., 


Atlanta  58  40  Columbus  50  
.•./  
Auburn  66  38  Dallas  72  
q-~-~8'@~ i) ~ ~  Baltimore 42 Baton Rouge 66  28 43  Denver Honolulu  54 76  
Showers  T·slorms  Rain  Flu"ies  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Chicago  46  34  Indianapolis  50  
v.., Associated Press GraphiCsNet  

38  Los Angeles  72  56  
41  Miami  72  52  
28  New York  38  34  
63  Phoenix  68  54  
37  St. Louis  58  39  


The Observer Examines ..... 


page 3 
' 

ens 
Wednesday, January 28, 1998 

W 0 MEN FACULTY 
For women professors at ND, 
Tenure, pay aren't created equal 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
· Assisrant News Editor 
Last year, some activists called for 
gender to be included among the list 
of conditions that Notre Dame would 
offidally not discriminate against. 
But in terms of gender discrimina­tion within Notre Dame's faculty, the activists' work would appear to be far from done, as numerous statistics and testimonies suggest that gender bias is alive and well within some of the University's hiring and faculty procedures. 
In 1996, 89 percent of the University's 491 tenured professors were men, down only 4 percent from 1983. Also in 1996, 83 percent of the full-time instructional faculty was male, down 7 percent from 1983. 
Furthermore, the average compensation for professors in the 1996-97 year was $110,500, while the average instructor's compensation was $62,600. Since 96 percent of all Notre Dame instructors in that year were women, it would appear that women faculty at the University are routinely paid less than men. 
When the Office of Institutional Hesearch was asked for a statis­tical breakdown of average salaries of Notre DamP faculty by gender and by college, the request was refused. 
"It would look like we're gross­ly underpaying our women," said a source at the Office of Institutional Hcsearch. 
In the early 1990s, Notre Dame took steps to rectify the difference in salaries of its male and female facul­ty members. Then-provost Timothy O'Meara announced that 25 percent of the pay raises that year would serve to correct previous preferential treatment of men. The raises received by the women were as much as $8,000 to $12,000. 
Notre Dame economist Teresa Ghilarducei told the Chicago Tribune that while the step was "a bold embrace on the part of the provost," such steps would not be necessary if 
MEN 16, WoMEN 6 ... 
By ANNE SCHNEEMAN 
News Wrirer 
Despite the generalization that a woman's college would be intent on fos­tering its female faculty, discrepancies between how men and women fill the professional ranks within Saint Mary's faculty still exist. 
Over half of the Saint Mary's full-time faculty and almost 70 percent of the part-time faculty are female, although the men-to-\\:omen university faculty ratio throughout Indiana is 13 to 1. 
Over half of the full-time tenured fac­ulty at Saint Mary's are women, but only six have reached full professorship, compared to 16 men. 
Dorothy Feigl, vice president and dean of faculty at Saint Mary's, has kept per­sonnel records of current faculty, evalu­ating data such as salary, family status, and gender. Her statistics have shown that it takes women a year longer than their male counterparts to achieve the same career goals, and they are routine­ly paid slightly Jess. 
Many factors contribute to variances in salary, according to Feigl. For exam­ple, the average mal•~ professor has been in that position six years longer than the women entered the bargaining process with more information about the salaries of their peers. 
"Most of us aren't in unions, and we find ourselves in situations where we don't know the pay of other peo­ple, and employers have to assess what you'll take. Women are usually at a disadvantage because employers feel comfortable offering a lower salary to a woman than they would a man," Ghilarducci said. 
While the 1997 faculty handbook does not suggest that tenure deci­sions are at all based on gender, a few former members of the Notre Dame community would beg to differ. 
In the early 1980s, Dolores Frese sued Notre Dame for what she con­sidered an unlawful denial of tenure. 
professors, they were denied tenure, according to the American Association of University Women's Indiana bulletin. 
"These women say Notre Dame assigned extra duties and responsi­bilities to them and to other female faculty, thereby creating a higher standard and more difficult burden for women to achieve tenure than for men," said a report in the journal. 
A s.ource explained the difficulty in recovering information about prior cases involving Notre Dame. 
"There's not a lot of information about prior cases because a lot of this stuff is covered up," said the source. 
Furthermore, according to the AAUW newsletter, Notre Dame has never granted tenure to a woman on 
NO 1996 Tenured NO 1996 Full Time Professors Instructional Faculty Professors 

Women-------­
11 °/o 17°/o 
w ~en 
· 89°/o 

While Frese was not the first woman to sue the University, she was the first to emerge victorious. 
The case, in which the Justice Department supported Frese, was concluded with the decision that the University must institute a set of pro­cedures to facilitate the course of action that women faculty members may take when they feel they have been denied tenure, promotion or contract renewal on the basis of gen­der. Such an appeal procedure is now in place in the 1997 faculty hand­book. 
Two women are now currently in the process of suing Notre Dame because they claim that, as assistant the faculty of the College of Business Administration. 
"To date in that college, Notre Dame has granted tenure only to women faculty who had previously been granted tenure by another col­lege or university." 
A female assistant professor at Notre Dame said that while she does not fear that her career will be affected by her gender, she is aware that such fears exist. When she first began working at the University, a group of women professors "took me aside in the beginning and told me what I needed to do to get tenure." 
"Many colleagues of mine have felt threatened," the professor explained. 
ment. It has taken us years to make up for that," Feigl explained. 
Fcigl added that she expects the num­ber of women full professors will even out significantly because many women 
• AN INTRODUCTION ... 
Excimining the tough ·choices· 
....•.....•...... The.~tlf~§.t~~i\Vran ~avet{) m~e choic* 

·r~s.The·questiolliSwhether we· all have the same options, Today many womenhave dis­covered that the push to have it all -happy fam.ily,thriving career, deep community involvement. a.nd normal sanity -is enough to drive anyrme mad.· 
Because of these issues, the newly-created Women's News section spent the last two weeks. talking with female faculty at Saint Ma,ry•s and Notr:e.·Dame•. and listeningto their stories of complicated choices and·difticlllt sacrifices. Anne Schneeman, a reporter for Women's Ne\VS, offered her insight into the creation of this section: 
"During the last two week£?, I sat in tiny offices cluttered with books, maps, posters, and·family pictures, and asked female faculty members to,tell me about their experiences. 
"Eachstoty.started at a different place and came to f;l. <l~~t'~nt (:qp.clusion~ butr.~gardless of departme:t!~. age, orrank, each was pro­voking. Every \\'()l.!lan had a message, and some were similar. But none were the same. 
"When·I CQJ!t,a{:ted them•. everyone agreed to spend whatever time, answer whatever question, ~c:l9[~rwhat they knew tohe the
· truth. ...,......,,.•,.,,M,,,,.,,,.... · F..... · 
"EveryonE} talked about value and choices, 
and how ~Jo~~lYthose two things areJinked,. Wotpen f~(;)~ ~~fe$SUJ,',~-whetl)er !~'sJriter­nal.or .ex:~ern.ttl.r~wains t9 h~· s~en / ;ybtitthis
preSsure shapes the' decisions they make 
about career~family and lifestyle. 
''These choices irrevocably alter their own lives. but ultimately they also shape ours. as students. A1most everyone reminisced about women heroes and role models .;..... the women who had somehow made their decisions easi­er or at le~opened up opportunities a young \\'omen .might not have considered. 
"Whatl d~C{}V~red iS an intimate.J:mnd .. w be~eenwollWB of ditfereq~ generatlonst andc I riow believ~:weowe it to our future to share our stories'\.vith. anyone who asks." 
The purpo5e'of,The. Observer's Wofuen's News sectionis t,o examine.theissues facing 
. women, both lli acollege settingand in the outside world. We begin today with a look at hiring, tenure and pay of women faculty 
. members. -·Thebbserver 

Even women's college has gender discrepancies 
average female professor. This differ­ence in experience accounts for salary discrepancies. 
Feigl attributes the low numbers of female professors to the exodus of Holy Cross nuns in the late 1960s. 
"We lost a vast number of the profes­sional women involved here. When the nuns left the order, they had to give up teaching -it was part of their agree-faculty will soon be up for promotion. 
Traditionally, the main difficulty facing women faculty who have children and are seeking promotion is the ability to publish with the rigorous schedule of motherhood. Although the emphasis at Saint Mary's is more on teaching and developing student relationships than on publishing, the importance of publica­tions when considering tenure is anoth-
SMC 1997 Full Time SMC 1997 Tenured Instructional Faculty Professors Professors 

er road block for mothers with aspira­tions for professorship. 
"It is impossible to fight with teenagers all through dinner and then sit down and analyze images in Henry James," said Ann Loux, a full professor in English. 
Loux, who raised five children, dis­cussed the difficulties faced by women in making such decisions. 
"Traditionally, women have had to make value choices that men didn't. The question is if the pressure is internal or external," said Loux. 
Ann Clark, an associate professor in philosophy, discussed the potential prob­lem of women feeling the need to assim­ilate to traditional masculine roles in order to be respected. 
"In the past, women may not have felt impassioned to move through the ranks, whereas men might have felt a greater pressure. It may also be problematic for a woman to think of herself as a full pro­fessor, which had traditional masculine attachments," said Clark. 
Gail Mandel, a full professor in the humanistic studies department, dis­cussed how the position of female pro­fessors as role models is essential. 
"In my day, we didn't have a language to express how women were treated. I went to a women's college and watched. I don't think I even knew what I was learning at the time, but it is so important in the type of teacher I am now. Now we have a language." 

ALUMNI SENIOR 


Wednesday, January 28, 1998

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 
COBA's Woo honored as 'Young Leader' 




Undergraduate Summer,lnsterns ips't 
The Environhlental Research lnst~!l.Jte,:;~ joint activity of Notre Dame &·Argonne Nationaflaboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Science · · &Tet'h~ology will aV\ra , · .. ,.. 998 internships ~lANL'in · 

,,.~_,. 
. .·-::r:-: .._.-......,,_._,_ 

campus r~$ea ..·. & board are ..,....,..,,'lT. 
.. $ ....)}& ;;,.,,:;·~~n~,;}~·it;;~~!il'!'~~~;~{;];;:~:~;:~;~~
StudenE'm.'JUtJj[£:"rn¥1J
·-:*. 

environmentally~related msc:totjrne 
concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, orimprovement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanentresidents, enrolled at 

OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY

Notre Dame, have completed their junior Year by May 1998 
and be registered to return in the Fall of 1998. 
103 Hesbur~h Library 
631-7HOO 112 Badin Hall 

For more details, contactthe'Centerfor Environmental 
631-5242 Basilica Offices

Science & Technology: .152A,fitzpafrick Hall, 631-8376E, i 
631·8463

Applicants will be required tO comple~e an application.·....· 
Web site: www.nd.l'<lu./-ministryI 

Kotlowitz to discuss urban problems 
By CHRISTINA KOLSKI a northern suburb of Chicago, because "it is personable, Kotlowitz writes about urban engaging, informative, and an
News Writer 

affairs and social issues for The accurate portrayal of inner-city 
Alex Kotlowitz, author of the Wall Street Journal, while help­life not beaten by ideology," Arts and Letters Core Course's ing run a farm in Lakeville, Alven Neiman, director of the book, "There Are No Children Ind., called "There Are Children Core Course department, Here," will come to campus Here." The farm was co-found­explained. today to present a lecture on ed with Notre Dame Core The lecture will take place 
"Breaking the Silence: Hace and Professor Jim Langford and his today in 101 DeBartolo Hall at 4 Poverty in America." wife, Jill, with the intention of p.m. and will be followed by a 
Kotlowitz will be discussing "providing a safe haven, a place reception in the LaFortune various issues addressed in where children could come to Ballroom. At 7 p.m., Kotlowitz "There Are No Children Here," be children," Langford stated in will sign copies of his new book as well as from his new book on his book, "Happy Are They: at Barnes & Noble on Grape 
the divide between Benton Living The Beatitudes in Road in Mishawaka. Donations Harbor and St. Joseph, Mich., America." will be accepted at the lecture entitled "The Other Side of the Kotlowitz's inspiring story of and reception for the Grace River: A Story of Two Towns, a two boys growing up in the pro­Community Center, a low-fund­Death and America's Dilemma." jects of Chicago has been con­ed center for South Bend chil­
A native of New York, sistently chosen by the Core dren who seek to escape the presently living in Oak Park, Ill., department year after year violence of the streets. 
Campus Ministry Events 
Wednesday, January 28, 7:00-8:00 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel Contetnporary Choir (Rehearsal) 
Of special interest: . Sign-up: NDE #50 (Feb. 28-March 1) 
This week at 103 Hesburgh Library 
. EMMAUS Discover a new way to be part of a community to enrich your faith. Stop in to Campus Ministry for information or contact Jim Lies, esc, John or Sylvia Dillon, Kate Barrett orSarah Granger at 6341-5242 
. New series ofInter-denominational mid-week evening prayer services will begin Wednesday, February 4, 7:30pm-8:00pm at Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Info: Karen Schneider-Kirner, Sarah Granger or Ema Osaki at 631-5242. 
By MARY ZAKAS 
News Writer 
Carolyn Woo, dean of the College of Business Administration and profes­sor of management at Notre Dame, has been honored as a "young leader" by Change magazine. Woo is one of 40 members of American acad· erne recognized by Change, the journal of the American Association for Higher Education. 
"I would like to shift the focus from myself, .. said Woo regarding the honor. "For something to succeed, we rely on many people to make it happen. We ask people to put in extensive hours, overlook self-inter.. ests. deliver more than what they are used to. suspend their skepticism, and bear with us when we make mis~ takes." 
"Carolyn Woo is an innov­ative and inspiring leader," 
:;:::.:. 

commented Notre Dame's provost. Nathan Hatch. "She has a clear sense of where the College of Business Administration needs to go in terms ofwhat is happen· ing in management educa­tion." 
Woo was named dean of the business college a year ago and is one of only two women serving as deans of private, accredited business schools. Before coming to Notre Dame. Woo was the associate executive vice president· for academic affairs at Purdue University, . 
The "young leaders" ·were chosen frgm Jt group of 
11.000 men and women associated with higher edu~ cation by Da'vid Breneman, · dean of the Curry School of Education at the University.·.·of Virginia. and. Barry' Munitzt president of the J. Paul Getty Trust and former chancellor ·of the California 
· State Un\versity system. 
Dart league starts tonight @ 10:00 PM. Matchups TBA. 


Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Clinton nominated for Nobel Peace Prize 

President Clinton has been nominated for the 1998 Nobel Peace Prize for his efl'orts to protect world peace and promote democ­racy, three Norwegian leg­islators announced today. Clinton, embroiled in a sex scandal in the United 
""'""''""-'&_......,___......, States, was nominated by members of the right-wing Party of Progress, one of the largest blocs in Norway's Parliament. "Throughout his presidency he has been a guarantor and friend of peace," the lawmakers said in a statement. They praised Clinton for helping end the war in former Yugoslavia and for standing up to "despots who want to repress human rights and democracy's rules of play." One of the legislators, Vidar Kleppe, said by telephone that they made the decision to nominate Clinton in December, before his current prob­lems. The nomination deadline for this year's peace prize is Jan. 31, although the Oslo­based awards committee usually accepts nominations postmarked by then. 
Sexual behavior may not prevent church service 
VATICAN CITY 

Young people with sexual "weaknesses" can still be candidates for religious life if they can control their problems, the Vatican said in a report Tuesday. The document grew out of a eonference here last year on how to attract and educate new priests, brothers and nuns in Europe. The report dealt with several issues, including personal qualities of suitable candi­datf~s. It reflected Pope John Paul II's determi­nation to invigorate the Catholic church as it moves into its third millennium. Sex scandals, including those involving clergy abusing youths or having affairs. have stained the church in recent years throughout the world. Sexual habits of seminary candidates are "an area par­ticularly worthy of attention, today more than ever," said the document produced by four Vatican congregations. "It is not so strange, nor is it rare, that the young person exhibits certain weaknesses in this area," the document contin­ued. It did not elaborate on what those weak­nesses could be. The report set out conditions under which the church could accept such weaknesses. The candidate must be conscious or the "root of his problem. which is often not sexual in origin and ... feel his weakness as something extraneous to his own personality, something that he does not want and that jars with his ideal, and against which .he will strug­gle with his whole being," it said. 

S&P 500: Composite 
969.02 Volume:

+102.14 +12.07 677,917.398 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

Cllldl!~::.~ II~ i!>[B ·~,, IH::.!,I i lid.l!:li 1 1 1Uf~ 
C0\1\IOilORE SE-PFI1 CXOTP H1.!\2 3.3750 7.50 Kl-.;l; POWI.R 1-.;TL Kl'l; 47.50 2.3750 73H F.DISO-.; BROTH · WTS EPBRW 41.67 1.2500 4.25 I lOUSE Of fABRICS II FAR 35.27 0.7500 2.81l ST.\TE OF THf. ART SOTA 5.1875 21.69
·'1.44 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

-.;A rL AUTO l'REOIT 69.23 3.9375 1.75 IP\1 C:0\1 PA:-.iY )I'M X 41.24 8.2500 12.25 1"111111' Sf.RVICES Pll\i 37.14 48750 8.25 \IL"ST A'o;l; SOtTWARE M~n; 26.14 1.0625 3.00 SIUCOM LTll SII.CF 25.59 O.bH75 2.00 
·""" 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Germany remembers the Holocaust 

AsSOCIATED PRESS 
BONN, Germany

Germans marked a national memorial day Tuesday for 6 million Jews who died in the Holocaust, and lawmakers 
and historians alike urged the country to take measures to prevent renewed Nazi-style racism. 
First observed two years ago, the Day of Hemembrance of Victims of Nazism marks the Jan. 27, 1945, liberation of the Auschwitz death camp, where more than 1 million people, mostly Jews, died at the hands ofthe Nazis. 
Ceremonies at former concentration camps and schoolroom discussions of Nazism were among the day's events. Though not a legal holiday, the day is Germany's official tribute to victims of Adolf Hitler's regime. 
Against a backdrop of rising anti-for­eigner violence, especially in Germany's depressed eastern states, the day's speeches stressed the importance of educating every generation about Nazi horrors. 
"We have to carefully watch develop­ments in our country and defend against the first signs of trouble." said Ignatz 
Bubis, head of Germany's Central Council of Jews. 
Bubis helped dedicate a memorial at the Berlin Grunewald train station, from which almost 56,000 Berlin Jews were sent to Nazi forced labor and death camps. 
At a ceremony in parliament in Bonn, lawmakers heard a string trio perform music written by Holocaust victim Gideon Klein while he was at the Theresienstadt camp. Klein, a Jew, also spent time in Auschwitz and later died in a Nazi camp in what is now the Czech Republic. 
Parliament speaker Rita Suessmuth urged Germans to reflect on "the roots of dictatorship and terror" and not to look away when they see racism. 
"This remembrance causes pain," she said. "Auschwitz may have happened decades ago, but it remains with us." 
One Israeli Holocaust scholar. Yehuda Bauer, said recent genocides in Rwanda and Bosnia indicated that the world has learned little from the Holocaust. 
"Remembering the Holocaust is only a first step," he told parliament. "To teach and to learn about ever)1hing that hap­pened in World War II, about racism 
and anti-Semitism is the next, responsi­ble step." 
More than five decades after World War II, how to deal with the Nazi legacy remains an almost daily topic in Germany. 
Attacks by right-wing extremists ­especially despondent youths in former communist East Germany -rose last year for the first time in five years. The German military has been under fire after revelations of neo-Nazi activities in its ranks. 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl, academics and artists have argued for years over the design of a planned Holocaust Memorial in Berlin, which will become Germany's seat of power again next year. 
Critics used the occasion Tuesday to accuse Kohl's government of not giving enough compensation to frail Holocaust survivors in eastern Europe. 
Instead, Germans and their politi­cians worry mainly "about esthetic aspects of remembrance such as the design of the Berlin Holocaust memo­rial," said the Association for the Information and Counseling of Nazi Victims. 
Gene helps HIV newborns fend off illness 
ASSOCIATED PRESS Such a treatment would help all races because it would CHICAGO give them the biological advantage now afforded only by 
A gene mutation that slows the progression of AIDS in the gene mutation, a U.S. scientist said. adults also helps newborns infected with HlV fend off seri­In the United States, about 500 babies of HIV~infected ous illnesses associated with the disease,a studyfound~ . mothers are born.with the virus each year. In developing 
The mutation. which occurs on a gene called CCR5, is countries, the rate is more than 300,000 a year and believed to be absent in blacks and Asians but present in increasing. Without treatment. more than 25 percent of 10 percent·to 15 percent of whites. HIV-positive mothers will pass the disease to their new· 
"There is a significant delay in the appearance of clinical horns. With current anti-viral drugs, the rate is about 8 and biological symptoms." said Dr. Micheline Misrahi. a percent. professor of biochemistry and molecular biology in Paris at An expert with the National Cancer Institute said the the Institut National de Ia Sante et de la Recherche French study is the first to show that a gene mutation can Medical e. slow HIV-disease progression in newborns as well as in 
In the study, HIV-infected newborns with the mutation adults. stayed illness-free much longer than infants who lacked "It looks like the effect could actually be a little stronger the mutation, the researchers reported in Wednesday's in these children,'' said Dr. Thomas R. O'Brien, a viral epi­Journal of the American Medical Association. demiologist who was not involved in the work. 
By age 8, only 11 percent of HIV-infected babies with Two other types of gene mutations have been shown to themutation had suffered serious AIDS-related maladies, be protective in varying degrees in adults, and more may such as severe bacterial illnesses~ compared with 49 per* exist, he said. cent of babies who lacked the mutation. The study involved data from 52 French medical centers 
The finding could someday help scientists develop new on 512 newborns born to HIV·infected mothers between drugs to prevent or kill HIV infection in newborns, the 1983 and 1996. researchers said. A total of 276 of the newborns were infected. 
----·--------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 28, 1998

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
al education standards. details about a number of Institute of Health which Another highlight of Clinton's issues, but at times he spoke in caused the widespread belief
Analysis Genetic
address was a treatment of vague generalities about the in "the gay gene." He 
some of America's health care­coming of the new millennium explained how the studies
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
related challenges. and its significance to the claim to find a gene associat­proper way to spend it. "160 million Americans are nation. authors' conclusions," he ed with homosexual behavior. Generll.lly. Democrats have in managed care programs, "Let America lead the world said. "Heritable does not But in his opinion, finding a preferred new spending and they save money and in some to a new height. ... Let us be a mean genetic." "homosexual gene" does not the Republicans have advocat­cases improve care, but med­strong nation for the 21st cen­Instead, Satinover believes necessarily mean that the ed a combination of tax cuts ical decisions need to be made tury," Clinton said. that the environment must gene causes homosexuality. and national debt reduction. by a medical doctor and not an In addition to discussing play some sort of role. "Genes for height do not 
Clinton stated categorically: insurance company," said America's movement into a As for brain structure stud­cause a person to be a basket­"With the projected surplus, I Clinton. new world era, Clinton also ies, Satinover cited the Levay ball player," he explained. have a simple answer: Save "We need a consumer bill of tried to articulate the proper research, which claims to Satinover concluded his lec­Social Security first. ... No rights to legislate a right to role of government: "Let gov­illustrate innate brain struc­ture by reiterating his opinion unwise spending or untargeted knowledge of medical options ernment give the tools to the ture differenees between het­on the nature of homosexuali­tax cuts." ... a right to doctor choice ... a American people to succeed." erosexual and homosexual ty. 
The statement elicited a right to emergency care ... and Said Kaplan: "Like his con­individuals. "There are probably as yet strong applause from both a right to quality medical sultant Dick Morris said, He dismissed this conclu­certain unidentified traits that sides of the aisle, a sign of care." Clinton is trying to triangulate, sion, explaining that "any place an individual at greater bipartisan support that Notre Medical care has been an that is, not to align himself too kind of behavior repeatedly risk for being homosexual. If Dame government professor issue in the media spotlight closely to any side, congres­engaged in will enlarge a part an individual is born with Joshua Kaplan says Clinton since the well-publicized fail­sional Democrats or of the brain. The best evi­those as yet unidentified risk was seeking in his address. ure of Clinton's health care Republicans." dence points to [homosexuali­factors and plaeed in a certain 
"Clinton is trying to lead reform plan. Since the failure The State of the Union serves ty] being a well-ingrained environment, you get a homo­without alienating the other of that initiative, Clinton has a number of purposes. Besides habit." sexual outcome," he said. party, trying to force them to been "trying to figure out what being a constitutional require­Finally, Satinover addressed He was quick to add, "This follow him," Kaplan said. is possible ... how to enact a ment, it also serves as a forum the chromosomal linkage is speculation. There are no 
Clinton continued his eco­modest reform proposal with­to discuss pertinent issues. studies done at the National studies being done." nomic themes with a plea to out eliciting the same vitriolic "The state of the Union increase the minimum wage. response from Republicans address draws publicity to cer­
The minimum wage was that doomed his 1993 plan," tain issues and influences pub­applauding. Earlier in the day
recently raised in the 104th said Kaplan. lic opinion," Kaplan said. 
she vigorously defended herCongress to $5.15 per hour Clinton concluded his speech In last nightOs address, there 

Clinton 
husband against "right wing

amid strong conservative oppo­with a treatment of some of the was a great deal of attention 
opponents" she said were out

sition. major foreign policy issues that afforded it due to the current continued from page 1 to destroy him. In his speech,Said Kaplan, "Clinton is try­have occupied the public spot­controversy surrounding life as he stood before a joint Clinton singled her out as
ing to see how far he can go ... light. Clinton and former White 
session of Congress. The "America's first lady," bring­
to see how much the To Saddam Hussein, Clinton House intern Monica Lewinsky. 
embattled president did not ing a burst of applause from
Republicans will give him." issued a stern warning: "We "Government officials made a Beyond issues of finance, are determined to deny you the special effort to be cordial in mention the furor over allega­lawmakers. 
tions he had sex with a young Afterward, House MajorityClinton discussed education for capacity to use them [weapons light of the current scandals," intern, Monica Lewinsky, and Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas,several minutes. pledging to of mass destruction] again." Kaplan said. 
"make a college education as In addition to the current The president failed to urged her to lie about it. He said "the speech seemed very 
has denied the charges. artificial. In my honest opin­
universal as a high school unpleasantness in Iraq con­address the Lewinsky allega­
Democrats applauded ion, it sounded like a series of
diploma." cerning international weapons tions and avoided any mention Clinton warmly when he applause lines strung togetherClinton wants to achieve this inspections, Clinton also of family values issues in gen­strode into the chamber. to paper over the atmosphere
· end through the use of "Hope addressed America's debt to eral. scholarships" and tax credits the United Nations: "It is time According to Kaplan, the Stony-faced, most Republicans in Washington." 
applauded as well and gave House Minority Leader Dickfor families with college stu­to make good on our debt to scandals swirling about the 
the president a respectful Ge ph ard t, D-Mo .. followed
dents. Clinton recently the United Nations." Clinton White House had "an hearing. Clinton appeared Clinton's lead. "Let's get the
received flak on this issue Clinton said the claim of a indirect effect upon the 
upbeat and spoke with convic­surplus, let's see it, let's touchwhen he proposed elimination debt rests upon the assessment address." Specifically, many 
tion during the 72-minute it for a few moments before
of the Perkins governmental that the U.S. received from the members of Congress were 
speech. we spend it, if it's there. But
education loans. U.N.. mandating that the U.S. concerned that every one of Hillary Rodham Clinton had lot us t'irst deal with SocialClinton pointed to Chicago as .contribute 25 percent of that their reactions to the address 
a city to which the nation could organization's operating bud­would be interpreted as being a front-row scat, beaming and Security." look for educational improve­get. related to the Lewinsky affair. ment innovations: "Like This amount has accumulat­
Chicago, the rest of the nation ed over the past few years and needs to eliminate social pro­now totals approximately $1 motion in the schools." billion. This payment has been 
Said Kaplan, "Clinton is try­":ehemently opposed by influ­ing to find a role for the ential conservatives like Sen. national government in prima­Jesse Helms (R-N.C.). ry education through grants To finish his speech, Clinton for new teacher hiring and tax said, "'To form a more perfect breaks for school construc­union,' let that be our goal," tion." continuing on his theme of the 
Education has always been a national treasures such as the hallmark of Clinton's political U.S. Constitution, the initiatives. He has sought Declaration of Independence repeatedly ways in which to and the wisdom contained use the force of the federal therein. government to improve nation-Clinton's speech included 
Head for the Hills! 


Attention all H.U.G.S. Members: 
There will be a 
mandatory meeting 
on Thursday january 29th at 7:00 in the C.S.C. 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Offers service work through various sites in Appalachia March 7-14, 1998 

• 
Is a one credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as site coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday January 26, 1998 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, January 28, 1998 $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
Sean Frey, Student Co-chair, 4-491 1 Ryan Murphy, Student Co-chair, 4-I980 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-9473 Jay Brandenberger, Faculty Advisor, I -5293 
' 

Wednesday, January 28, 1998 page 7
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
•LEBANON 
Lebanese bomb kills one citizen 
Associated Press 
MARJAYOUN, Lebanon 
A remote-controlled bomb exploded Tuesday along a road in south Lebanon, killing a Lebanese truck driver, security officials said. 
Elsewhere Tuesday, Iranian­backed Hezbollah guerrillas said they attacked an outpost of the Israeli-allied South Lebanon Army militia in southern Lebanon . 
Israeli and militia gunners retaliated by firing some 20 shells toward suspected Hezbollah hideouts, injuring a Lebanese woman when one of the shells landed near her home. 
Near the Christian mountain town of Jezzine, Tanios Helou, 57, was killed by the roadside bomb as he drove on a main road. according to officials 
speaking  on  condition  of  
anonymity.  
There  was  no  immediate  

claim of responsibility for that blast. 
Lebanese guerrillas frequent­ly target Israeli and militia patrols in southern Lebanon with roadside bombs. They also accuse Israelis and their allies of using such bombs against civilians in the south to try to turn them against the guerril­las. 
Just north of Jezzine, guerril­las scored "direct hits" on the post at Toumat Niha. according to a Hezbollah statement. 


• JERUSALEM 
• CLARIFICATION 
The front page article in yesterday's Observer, "Rita pleads guilty to misdemeanor," incor· rectly ·identified th.e nature of the charge to which Rita will plead. According to· St. Joseph County prosecutor Mike Barnes, Rita will plead guilty to the original felony charge of leavin.g the scene of a fatal acci­dent but will be given misdemeanor treatw ment. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
*Weight 
Management 'Program ~~ C..a\oriG Monitoring ~~vh~f>iGa\ N.tivit~ 
~~t,.ating 'Pattern An.a\~r,ir, ~~t,.ating Behavior ~trategies 
f{Z66 IN]]ZODUC.TO{ZY M66TINCJ 
::fan. ~q, 1~:10, Foster \Zoom, LaFortune Contac.t Jessic.a BrooKt>hire, (i31-')S~q or Jennie 'Phi\\ips {i31-?q{Q? for more information. 
New textbook leaves out Palestinian history 
Associated Press 
pies' histories are inseparably intertwined. out of the collective memory is a very dan~ The authors said Tuesday they had too gerous act." JERUSALEM many other subjects to cover, while the The Education Ministry recommended 
Israeli school children will be studying a Education Ministry said the book was proR the 50th anniversary as the ..central sub~ special textbook put out to commemorate duced independently and purchased by ject" for all schools in 1998. According to the country's 50th anniversary this year -individual schools. The government didn't the Haaretz newspaper, the curriculum is but they won't find ·much in it about the indicate any plan to reassess usage of the supposed to include "soul~searching" on 
Palestinians. 
text. unresolved dilemmas and conflicts. 
"Israel's Jubilee," purchased by schools around the nation, includes a survey of major events in Israeli history. including the Arab-Israeli wars and the country's absorption ofimmigrants over the years. 
But the book makes almost no mention of the Palestinians, although the two peo· 
But Israeli hi.<;torian Ilan Pappe says that if Israelis fail to acknowledge the Palestinians, they are less likely to make peace with them. 
"It's a very falsified picture," Pappe said. ''If you ignore the Palestinian~. it means that you dehumanize them. Wiping them 
But apparently the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which stems from Israel's estab~ lishment on land claimed by both peoples, doesn't qualify. A version of "Israel's Jubilee'' intended for first and second graders makes no mention of the Palestinians. 

• GREAT BRITAIN 
Researchers find genetic location 
Associated Press Tuesday. Hospital for Children. Genes reside on stringlike A researcher at Rutgers LONDON structures called chromosomes. University in New Jersey agreed 
Researchers have proved a and Monaco and his colleagues the British team had made an genetic cause for a severe identified a segment of a chro­important finding for the study speech disorder afflicting one mosome containing the gene of neurological development, British family -a discovery that causes the British family's even if it is unclear how useful that could lead to earlier diag­disorder. They expect to isolate it can be to the majority of those nosis and improved treatment the gene itself within two years. with language disorders. of childhood language prob­Identifying the gene might The work is reported in the lems. lead to earlier diagnosis -and February issue of the journal
"We knew language disorders earlier treatment -of child­Nature Genetics. were genetic, but nobody had hood speech problems that are About 4 percent of children found a gene location before," related to defects in motor worldwide have language prob­Dr. Anthony Monaco of Oxford skills, the researchers said. lems. University's Wellcome Trust "What we hypothesize now is Those include children unable Center for Human Genetics said this gene leads to abnormal to understand language, those 
development of some brain who understand but cannot regions that control motor articulate because of a defect in movements," said researcher motor skills and those who can­Faraneh Vargha-Khadem, a not structure speech properly, neuropsychologist at the even though they understand Institute of Child Health at language and have the motor London's Great Ormond Street ability to speak. 

Informational meeting for all students interested in 
running for Student Government President and 
Vice President. Meeting will be held on 
Wednesday January 28th, at 9:00p.m. at the 
Student Government office. 

OINT 
page 8 Wednesday, January 28, 1998 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Br~d Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ............................ Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... ~Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obscorver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  63 I -4542  Business Office  63I-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4 54 I  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  63I-8839  
Sporrs Accent/Saint Mary's  63 I -4 543 63I-4540  Office Manager Fax  631-7471 631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoinr  63 I -5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  AdE-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


A Wholistic Approach to Prayer? 
For people desiring to deepen their relationship with God, a number of retreat centers and organizations are currently offering "wholistic" programs. Advertisements in religious and secular 
Julie Ferraro 
periodicals highlight how these pro­grams offer "sacred psychology," "mas­sage and body work," "T'ai Chi Chih" and so forth. People are led to believe that unless one achieves a balance between body, mind and soul-an indi­vidualized comfort level -one cannot pray. 
Such a premise, of course, is entirely untrue. An overview of history will prove this statement. 
Jesus personally spent 40 days fasting in the desert prior to beginning his pub­lic ministry. He did not have a masseuse to rub the kinks from his back after a night of sleeping on the cold, hard ground. He did not have a counselor­spiritual or psychologist at hand to dis­cuss the "hidden meaning" of the temp­tations to which he was subjected. He stood with God, overlooked his pain and prayed. 
Through the centuries, others have followed Jesus' example. St. Benedict of Nursea abandoned a lifestyle that could be deemed comfortable for a cave where he devoted himself to prayer, without consideration for physical dis­tress or other trivialities. From such humble beginnings grew the Benedictine Order and its many off­shoots. 
St. Francis of Assisi in the 13th centu­ry saw a Church in need of reform. The spirituality of the masses had become too "comfortable." He stripped himself of everything, including blindness and the Stigmata -and experienced extra­ordinary revelations in prayer. 

St. Teresa of Avila was a sickly woman, yet she reformed the Carmelite Order in the 16th century, wrote deeply spiritual works (for which she was named the first female Doctor of the Church) and prayed constantly. During this same era, St. John of the Cross was imprisoned in a closet by members of the unreformed Carmel. where he com­posed his enthralling poetry. Many his­torians have noted how his prayer life benefited from his willingness to suffer. 
Within the past 150 years, St. Therese of Lisieux suffered from tuberculosis, yet has become known the world over for her childlike spirituality. Padre Pio bore the Stigmata and its excruciating pain for many years, yet prayed fer­vently. 
The list could continue, but the ques­tion remains: is a "wholistic" approach the proper way to achieve a meaningful relationship with God? Did not Christ tell his disciples to take up the cross, and St. Paul make it evident that suffer­ing is an integral part of faith and that prayer continues in spite of it all? 
Those who live in a frantic western culture may be convinced because of persuasive advertising that it is neces­sary to "feel good" in order to accom­plish anything. Old, painful memories of childhood tragedies or hardships, chem­ical abuse, sexual orientation discern­ment: these things are important to an individual's mental and physical health, but spirituality must transcend such concerns. No one can be so wrapped up with personal concerns that God is ignored. It must be the other way around. Ignore the problems; pay heed to God! 
The latter attitude makes it more readily possible to see God's actions in one's life. What a person has already lived through can only effect the future insofar as it is allowed to be an obstacle to spiritual growth. The way stress is confronted (or avoided) is greatly dependent on how much trust an indi­vidual places in God. The knowledge that no one is given more trials in a day than can be handled with God's loving help should reinforce a soul's faith and move it forward in prayer and the rela­tionship with God, leaving behind the unnecessary clutter. 

Still, some people feel they cannot leave behind the clutter without the counseling, body therapy, Oriental methods of relaxation, etc. that wholis­tic programs offer. They may not believe when a truly spiritual, discern­ing acquaintance tells them that this fear or reluctance stems from a lack of faith. Those who refuse to "let go and let God" find some strange comfort in their "known" problems, when they should be finding comfort in the Unknown in prayer. These people are scared to "risk everything," to step out in faith. 
Not until souls "cut out the middle man" and go straight to the Source will they be able to achieve an honest, deep spirituality. Prayer is how this is accom­plished. Wholistic programs, ennea­gram retreats and other "self-discov­ery" methods only make it more difficult to find one's self in God. Concentrating too much on personal traits, problems or preferences creates a blockage to the awareness of God's unconditional love, which is ours no matter what we've been through, or who we are. 
That is why emphasis needs to be placed on love of God (the First Great Commandment) and love of neighbor "as I have loved you," as Jesus pro­claimed at the Last Supper. In simple terms, we need to love each other unconditionally. as God loves us. This is how the saints -great and small ­have lived throughout history. This example should be emulated more than any other, rendering the secularized amalgamation of self-discovery with spirituality immaterial, and making prayer a priority not the least bit depen­dent on how one "feels." 
Julie Ferraro is a local administrative assistant. fler column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• 000NESBURY 

OKAY,~, TRYING 7lJ Jl;ACH 
cw >aRre&T­MYKIPA l/SeRJL.. 
IfE 6CJTA 8US JRAOe/NO«<IHO~ ff.l 
llJMAK&.t 

I H&>: C»tw, A1AN... 
GARRY TRUDEAU 


HA V~ Ya.tM?S'eN:!e CF /)6('£NCy,PRAGGING~ aJTOFMY OIVN HOMe~ I fl4~A KIP, 700, /?UK&, Asu:&PIN 77-1& NeXTROOM,, 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The truth is rarely pure and never simple." 
-Oscar Wilde 
\ 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 28, 1998 page 9 
• THE i\t11GHTY OAK • WRONG SIDE UP 
Sean O'Connor 
The 'Hoosier' Explained 
In my own city (Indianans are going pile of ripped blankets in the corner. to cringe at this), we call rednecks and Eight bags of trash and other loose such, "hoosiers." I don't know how the garbage sit ready in the kitchen for the tradition got started or what its rela­arrival of a miraculous maid, while tionship to the pots grow cultures local breed of from long-ago foods hoosier is (some-as Burger King body from flows freely. There Logansport. Ind. is real character told me that the here, something Indiana usage enjoyed only by a comes from early privileged few. settlement times, Dorm rooms have when furtive that additional Frenchman would charm; they're not answer knocks at their bourgeoisie their doors with a high-faluting apart-suspicious "who's 'ere?"), but no other ment cousins. Everything is com­geographic group used the term like we pressed, the icebox holds only beer, did when I got here. everyone huddles in one room around 
So my eitymates and I were proud of the warm glow of the raging Sega it like it was our illegitimate baby. We game. The lamp hangs upside down happily corrected people who classified where it has been jammed into the Jenny Jones guests as "rednecks," springs of a bed suspended by two-by­pointing out that people such as fours adorned with a marvelously witty yachters could also develop red necks string of curses, hash marks chroni­and certainly they would shatter the cling God knows what (although I'll put mold. Why fault someone for having a money on the fact it's got nothing to do red neck? It probably came from hon­with girls). and bottle caps hammered est work. Farmers have red necks. into the wood. The joints are gerry­Thomas Jefferson was a farmer, so rigged in the supreme mode of the man Jefferson could fit the type "redneck." with only a blunt instrument and odd If there were none of these "rednecks," rusty nails. Damn straight, brother. the people wh~ use the word would not that's a room. eat. So use "hoosier," we said, our little There are differences. We have baby, reserved more for the boys with Nintendo 64s whereas hoosiers have the big tires on their trucks and a pen­the old school version. We have chant for bar fights than for tillers of Skynyrd CDs where hoosiers have tapes soil. I am proud when I obtain a deep (or 8-tracks when you get way out auburn neck in the summer, and there). We have networked computers matching forearms, because you know in place of the huge satellite dishes it didn't come from no tanning parlor. which often dwarf hoosier abodes. But 
When I was a kid we were always they both serve essentially the same concerned with and quite sure of who purpose; the conveyance of sports was a hoosier. They were in our midst. scores and dirty pictures. our daily lives, and though it was A fellow citizen of my town and I. essentially a term of derision, only so in. both matriculating here, once imported 
the way a wife might call her husband a beer to this place that sealed our sta­a "big lug." We had admiration for tus as rock star purveyors of hoosier­hoosiers, be it the cool kid across the dam. Stag, in that miraculous shining street whose horn played Dixie or the gold can, adorned with the head of a grizzled old guy who had motor oil and buck and speaking as much to our manure in the creases of his hands. We manhood as to our date status for that stared at those slick "hoosier-cruiser" weekend, carried like an Indian raja on Camaros and lroc-Zs, played with his cushion across two states. We spe­Matchbox hoosier cars, and bought cially requested it unrefrigerated from enormous quantities of fireworks and the stockroom so it would not loose its taped them together in wicked concoc­subtleties as it warmed during the long tions to explode these same cars in the trip. When we arrived, it remained as it sand (often this arsenal included smoke was born to be, warm, so not to cloud bombs, because smoke is cool). These the sheen of that heavenly can with were the glory days of hoosierdom, condensation. {Owing to the watering before it faded to sirupy little lowridcr down of hoosierdom. it's tricky back trucks with neon undercarriages and there now -when my friend and I go urinating cartoon characters and sun­to a bar in my town and pretend to be glass ads stenciled in the back window. race car drivers, we must first judge Bad Boyz, hardly, just harkeners­whether it is an up-and-coming Indie back missing the point. car or real man's Nascar kind of place.} 
All of this early hoosier-esque behav­Then there is the cult of the wife­ior was kowtowed by our worried beater-those sleeveless white under­mothers. But then we got to college and shirts. I daren't say how they got their their efforts were shot to hell. College is name, but they come out in droves at supposed to civilize you, but it actually tailgaters. The more stained, the bet­does more to hoosierize you. There's a ter. Preserve those stains for years, and thin line between white trash and col­guard your baby from the terrible lege kids, as someone once said, and washing machine of your de-hoosierify­most of my friends walk it with glee. ing mom. Get t~e hat to match, throw it Hair gets longer. and showers come in the mud, and stomp on it and yell at less frequently. Cheap beer and lots of it. You know the routine. it, kitschy bar signs, cheering on the God bless all hoosiers. You don't see Jenny Jones show, the glorification of college students ·hanging pictures of dirtbags and sleazy bars, all of it con­business executives on their walls, or stitutes a lot of fellows I know around squandering beer-money on briefcases. campus. . The short respite of college allows us to 
I go into my friends' apartment and live the preferred (that is, hoosier) seat myself on the stained couch which lifestyle before being forced to be civi­smells like a catbox. It was once brown. lized. I think the appeal of hoosier life maybe, but is now more black. Just vis­lies in its hard-hitting, tribal sort of ible in the static of the TV, a fellow nature. Hoosiers don't dilly-dally and with an awesome rattail bawls at his hum elevator tunes, they build or fix wife, height doubled by her hair. as something and then go out gambling Jonny seeks philosophy in it. The "cof­and carousing. And there's no restric-· fee table" has something growing on it. tive neckwear required. An empty Natty Light can serves as an ashtray, but the smokers have missed Sean O'Connor, Notre Dame '97. is a the mark. The Fall Guy, a beer can graduate student. His column appears affixed with tape. and Bo and Luke every other Wednesday. (maybe even Vance and Coy) look down The views expressed in this column from the walls. There is a dead plant are those of the author and not neces­on the window sill for accent. sarily those of The Observer. Christmas lights remain in a tangled mass duct-taped on the wall. Someone has punched a whole in the door. There is no toilet paper. One person's bed is a 

A Mile High Salute 
After Christmas break and, conse-they got their nickname?). affixed quently, "family time" was over, my Green Bay flags to their cars, had yel­brotherand I breathed a sigh of relief low and green hair, tattoos and mani­but. alas, unbeknownst to us, my cures, waved signs that read "Behold father was at home, pacing through the Power of Cheese," wore Packer 
the kitchen. =========~::=;::=;::=;::=;::=;::=;~ beads, buttons 
wracking his and bangles and brain. "How am I yet, with all this. gonna get ·em still did not return
M et 
back?" he won-to Wisconsin with 
argar

dered. "Just how the victory they am I gonna do were so sure they
Shaheen 

it?" had already won. 
He knew he Packer fans were had to come up left scratching with something their dyed heads really good to get and wondering, us to spend some more quality time what went wrong? together as a family. "The beer didn't Poor Cheeseheads! They cursed work; the ski boots didn't work. What their own team! They refused to stop will get 'em back?" Just like the cheming, "Go Pack Go!" This Grinch who Stole Christmas, my supremely annoying chant sent father "puzzled until his puzzler was Bronco powerhouse Terrell Davis into sore." Then, nervously tapping the the locker room with a migraine and side of his Orange Crush can, he came left the Packers on the field wonder-up with an idea-a mile high idea. ing why their fans didn't take to 
He put down his can. let out a putting cheese where it belongs -in cheer, "Go Broncos!" and told my their mouths. mom, "Book 'em a flight! We're going Bronco fans, on the other hand, to San Diego!" That is more or less have a better understanding of the job how we all ended up at the Super of a football fan. Of the handful of Bowl. Bronco fans I met in California, not a 
Upon arriving in California, we one of them was sober. I met the first looked around for some fellow orange one on Saturday at the beach. He had and blue comrades to bond with. a bottle in one hand, his britches in 
r, ..
I 

Imagine our disappointment at find­the other and was screaming, what I 
ing that the state was overrun with took to be "Go Broncos," but really Cheeseheads. They flocked into could have been any number of pro­California in droves and multiplied fanities. I met the next one in a bar. like the Oriental Fruit Fly. There were He accidentally dipped his three foot 
as many Packer fans in Southern beard into a nice layer of Coors foam California as there were waves on the when he tried to give me a thumbs ocean and BMWs on the road. Having up. My favorite Bronco fan was the been humiliated in four Super Bowls one who wasn't even standing up but 
already, most Bronco fans were at still managed to topple head first out Lourdes praying for a miracle. No of his seat and into the laps of some wonder we were out-numbered! unhappy Packer fans during the third 
Since Bronco fans were few and far quarter. 
between in California. Cheeseheads So, while Bronco fans may not have repeatedly pointed at me, patted my fancy orange and blue paraphernalia, back and said, "Oh, look! A lone walk around with dairy products Bronco!" Smiling condescendingly, strapped to their heads or even show they added, "Good Luck!" As I up in San Diego, we do love our beer cheered at the start of the game, one and our team and to them we give a particularly insolent Packer fan big Mile High Salute! inquired, "May I take your picture? ... I want a before and after shot." Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore 
Oh, they were a cocky bunch, wear­Arts and Letters major. Her column ing foam cheese like it was cotton -appears every other Wednesday. cheese hats, cheese butts and for the The opinions expressed in this col­
especially vulgar, the cheese bra umn are those ofthe author and not (proving that Packer fans take that necessarily those ofThe Observer. extra lift wherever they can get it). 
They traveled in packs (is that how 
Send us your opinions! Write to The Observer at Observer.Viewpoint.l @nd.edu 

' 

Wednesday, January 28, 1998
ACCENT
page 10 

..
,, 
ll 
.. 
~; 
1 
li 
li ii 
'I 
'I 
i! 
ii 
L'! li 
If 
II 
ll 
H 
ll 
r 
li 
I 
i 
! 
' 

II
I: 
I, 
I:
i; il 
! 
i 
l
I 
1 
:j 

J's Pu 
Address: 417 North Michigan, South Bend 

I 
Food Hours: 11a.m. -9 p.m., Monday -Saturday 
Famous For: The Super Pub Burger: Over 1/2 lb. slab of 
ence between d
ground chuck flavored with C.J. 's unique blend of spices. 
Atmosphere: Can be very crowded at peak hours. 
Not especially conducive to large parties -better for 
smaller gatherings. 
We Say: Since there are no appetizers on the menu, the free popcorn is definitely a plus. The 
family-owned and operated establishment is a welcome change from the apathy that plagues many 
of South Bend's finest restaurants. Do not stray from ordering the Pub Burger, as it validates one's 
search of the the qui
earthly existence. The chicken, however, does not. The half-and-half side order of cross cut fries and onion rings perfectly complement the manna from heaven known as the Pub Burger. It's very 
burgers, and other cut
good_, but not necessarily good for you. The bill was not overly expensive, but you may want to save this for a splurge in every sense of the word. 
criteria for judging was~) ':====================================I required a great deal ol 
'~ only the best for our re 
V everything .into ac~ 
Food Hours: Monday -Thursday, 11 a.m.. ­Friday -Sunday, 11 a.m. -2 a.m. 
Go fori Famous For: Wings, wings, and more wings. 

Atmosphere: Long booths can accommodate large parties. An inter­active quiz game is available to play which will add fun to your dining expe­rience. As with any sports-themed bar, BW-3's has lots of TV sets. A little 
TOO many TV sets if you ask us. BW-3's is one in a very large chain of restaurants, and we didn't like the commercial feel­ing of the place. You'd be better off eating in one of the more unique places on our list. 
We Say: If you want to go to BW-3's for the food-don't. It's not that good, and on this list of pub grub palaces, we rank it last. The chicken wings are OK, but they're definitely not the best you can find -ours were served cold. even though the sauce was a mouth-numbing scorcher. The hamburgers are barely tolerable -our taster could only make it through half of one. The chicken sandwiches are just OK. BW-3's has added a few new items to its menu and we thought the spicy chicken parmesan sandwich was the best overall. If anything, the 12 unique sauces are a neat idea, but let's face it. You never go to a restaurant just for the 12 unique sauces. 

By ARWEN DICKEY ··Wednesday {\light TeleVision Correspondent 
Last week on 90210, Kelly moves In with Donna after finding outthat Brandon cheated on. her. Kelly won'ttalkto Brandon and he takes out ·his frustration on a copy machine and a mother and her two kids after the mom cuts him offat an intersection. Brandon, Noah, and Steve share some quality male bonding time near an amuse­ment park and drink their woes away. Later that night, Brandon goes over to Donna's to continue his attempts to woo Kelly back. Needless to say. Kelly was not impressed. · 
As a result of the illegal gambling going on at the After Dark, Noah got his liquor license sus· pended for a week and Valel"ie got 50 hours of community service. Noah fires Valerie from the Mter Dark. For her community service, Valerie must coincidentally work at the same clinic as Kelly does.. 
Also ·starting work at the clinic is an intern from San Francisco named Jeff who is interested in Kelly. Being her conniving self,Valerie rips up the many telephone messages Brandon has left for Kelly. When Brandon sends flowers to Kelly at the clinic, Valerie changes the card to say they are from a ..secret admirer.. and not Brandon. 
Since Jeff has an obvious interest in Kelly, Valerie seizes the opportunity to promptly tell Kelly that Jeff is her secret admirer. Jeff asks 

....................................-------------------------------------------------­
Kelly out for drinks and when Brandon calls the cliniB• Valerie lets him. know ihat Kelly is on a date. Brandon goes to the beach house and yells at Kelly for being on a date to which Kelly respQnds. "How long were we broken up before. you slept with Emma? Oh that's right, we weren't.'' Kelly tells Brandon they may never get back together. 
An abused woman comes into the clinic and Kelly makes it her crusade to help. The abusive husband is played by the famous Christopher Daniel Barnes. 
early's father has aheart attack so she and 
· Zack must go to Montana to take care ofhim. Carly says they may never come back since mov~ ing around a lot is not good for Zack. Steve is upset. This poor guy always seems to get his heart crushed lately. David is following a band, Jasper's Law, for the Beverly Beat. The band offers David drugs which he refuses and David sings and sells to the band an extremely horrible song he wrote two years ago about Donna. 
TONIGHT: Kelly sees Brandon when she is out to dinner with Jeff. When Valerie sees Kelly and Jeff kissing, she says, "My work here is done.'' Kelly walks in on Brandon hugging a girl at the Walsh house and gets angry. A member of Jasper's Law leaves the After Dark drunk, gets in an accident and wants to sue Noah . 



Wednesday, January 28, 1998 page 11
ACCENT 

Mishawaka Brewins Co. 
J\ddress: 3703 North Main, South Bend 
Food Hours: 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. most days; call for fur­
Famous For: Aside from micro-brewed beers, the Yes SIRloin Grill is a house specialty. Also, the Red Pepper -Goose Wings and non-alcoholic brewed sodas are 
notable. 

Atmosphere: The high ceilings and overall spaciousness is a welcome change from the smoke­laden elbow fests to which we've grown accustomed. 
We Say: We're fans of the complimentary grazing chips to whet our appetites. Also, do yourself a favor and order a good appetizer. The menu is extensive, and is a clever mix of old favorites and envelope pushers -we were afraid to try the Scotch Eggs. The SIRloin Grill is particularly good, though, and the bill won't leave you scraping for lint. · 
' 


..,_,., ,. . . ~ 
Address: 2046 South Bend Ave., South Bend 
Food Hours: 11 a.m. to 10 p.m., whole n1enu; 11 a.m. to
th. 
Famous For: Pizza and gargantuan-sized appetizers 
Atmosphere: It's pretty much a classic sports bar; it's even got a mini basketball court in the back. ·It's feast or famine as far as the crowds go; either it's packed or you're eating by yourself. If the latter is the case, at least the big screen TVs will keep you company. 
We Say: Order the "Coach's Combo Platter" as an appetizer and fill up on it. It's simply the best thing on the menu. It highlights all of the best appetizers, which are the jewels in the crown of Coach's menu. While the appetizers are large enough to appease a drinking crowd, the grease may be a bit too much to stomach after extensive sampling. 
Coach's has something on the menu which caters to all appetites. From the "Super Bowl Salads" to the "Big League Burgers," you can score big at Coach's. Although the menu is extensive, it lacks the down-home charm of a smaller venue like CJ's. The prices are fair like a good coach should be. 

ltessential wings, nary offerings. The vast, extensive, and fresearch. WVanting ~aders, Accent took 


By ARWEN DICKEY Julia. He can't turn his head away from the game for a says he ls trying to bribe Nat, but Bailey thinks he 
Wednesday Night Television Correspondent · few seconds to meet her new friend. needs to try to be Nat's friend. ----'----"-------'--..,..---------Sarah and Elliott are also at the restaurant and ~· He brings her lots of treats and takes her to hockey 
Charlie starts to hang out with another Hodgkin's Elliott and Griffin get mad at how the girls act. The night at the restaurant to get her to like him. Natalie patient named Kevin. They go to the batting cages and boys go to a strip club where Julia, Sarah, and Jeanie even tries to call her dad but the number doesn't plan a fishing trip that Charlie ends up too scared to walk in on them. Julia handles the situation with a work. Bailey finally explains to Natalie that he would go on. Julia and Claudia are mad at Charlie for taking great deal of dignity, considering where she is. by sim~ · never take the place of her father and relates the chances with his health. After Kevin gets even sicker, ply turning around and walking away. Later, Julia experience of his father dying. Natalie seems to have Charlie realizes he should live life to the fullest and and Griffin fight again and continue to not talk to each forgiven Bailey when she asks if he is going to be there goes hanggliding. other. when she wakes up. 
Julia starts to work at a temp job. A woman at the Sarah tells Elliott he can experiment on her instead job, Jeanie, tells Julia to never get married. Too late. of the chem lab. Elliott has told Sarah that he is expo~ Jeanie. Griffin wants to have sex but Julia refuses. rienced in the sex department but it turns out that TONIGHT: Griffin wants to have a commercial for She is not happy with the small amount of conversa­Elliott is a virgin just like Sarah. the bike shop to bring in more business. Julia and tion they have had lately. Natalie is still mad at Bailey for supposedly taking Griffin get to star in it. Kevin finds out if his radiation 
Julia has a girls' night out with Jeanie. They go to the place of her dad. This has started to create a small worked. Sarah wants to sleep with Elliott. Bailey Salingers' Restaurant, but Bailey is hosting a hockey degree of friction between Bailey and Annie because knows something about Sarah that is being kept from night. Griffin is also there and acts rude towards they disagree on how to handle the situation. Annie her. 
" . 

page 12
Wednesday, January 28, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
.NBA 

Rice lifts Hornets to double overtime victory · 

Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Glen Rice scored 13 of Charlotte's final 26 points and wound up with 42 to help the Hornets to a 120-113 double-over­time victory over the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday night. 
Rice, named an Eastern Conference All-Star earlier in the day, was held to seven points in the first half on 2-for-8 field-goal shooting. He made 13 of 21 the rest of the way as the Hornets won for the fourth time in five games. 
Anthony Mason added 20 points, 13 rebounds and six assists for Charlotte, and Matt Geiger had 10 points and 13 rebounds. 
The Suns, who one night earlier had opened an 11-day. seven-game East Coast swing with a victory in Atlanta, were outscored by Charlotte 14-7 in the second extra period. 
Phoenix got a season-high 30 points from Antonio McDyess, but he fouled out with 1:44 left in regulation. Rex Chapman added 20 points and Steve Nash had 18. 
Rice scored 10 of Charlotte's 12 points in the first extra period, when there were five lead changes and four ties. 
Mason scored the first three points of the second overtime session, giving the Hornets their biggest lead of the ·game to that point. 
Charlotte pushed its lead to six points twice before Rice's free throw with five seconds remaining accounted for the final margin. 
McDyess, who got into foul trouble Monday night and scored just two points in the Suns' victory in Atlanta, played 40 minutes before fouling out. He hit 14 of 20 field-goal attempts and added 12 rebounds and five blocks. 
McDyess did most of his damage in the first half, when he hit 11 of 15 shots, including six dunks, and powered a 13-7 run that helped Phoenix build a 12-point lead. 
Mavericks 84 Cavaliers 77 DALlAS 
Michael Finley scored a career-high 39 points, including seven in overtime, as the Dallas Mavericks ended the Cleveland Cavaliers three-game winning streak, 84-77 Tuesday night. 
Finley also helped the Mavs rally in the fourth quarter by scoring all of Dallas' points in a 10-0 run. 
Shawn Bradley's two free throws with 

3:48 left in overtime gave Dallas the lead for good at 77-75. On Dallas' next possession, Finley hit a short jumper, was fouled, and added a / free throw with 56 seconds remaining 
for an 80-7 5 lead. Derek Anderson's layup with 37 sec­onds to play in overtime pulled Cleveland within 80-77, but Finley's 14­foot jumper with 16 seconds remaining extended Dallas' lead to 82-77. 

Finley's two free throws with five sec­onds left in the overtime closed out the Cavaliers. 
Shawn Kemp had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the Cavaliers before foul­ing out with 3:48 left in overtime. 
The Cavs were ahead by as many as eight points early in the final quarter before the Mavericks rallied to tie at 71 on 10 straight points from Finley. 
Mavericks point guard Khalid Reeves was guilty of a critical error when he was called for a 10-second violation with the game tied at 75 and 31.2 sec­onds left. Reeves was not pressured and simply did not cross the halfcourt line in time. 
Both teams had shots at the win in the last 10 seconds of regulation. Wesley Person failed on a 3-pointer with 5.5 seconds left for Cleveland and Finley missed from 35 feet at the regulation buzzer. 
Cleveland closed the third quarter with an 8-0 run, including two baskets from Vitaly Potapenko, and took a 63-59 lead into the fourth quarter. 
Rockets 115 Clippers 1 09 HOUSTON 

Charles Barkley had 21 points and 13 rebounds to lead seven Rockets in dou­ble figures, and Houston shook off a slow start Tuesday night to beat the Los Angeles Clippers 115-109. 
The victory was only the second in the last. eight games for the Rockets. The Clippers lost their fifth straight and 1Oth in their last 12 outings. 
Houston got 17 points and seven assists from Clyde Drexler and 15 points and 10 rebounds from Kevin Willis. 
Rodrick Rhodes added 14 points, Othella Harrington 13, ·and Matt Maloney and Brent Price had 11 apiece. 
The Rockets, leading 85-82 going into the final quarter, used an 11-2 run early in the period to pull away. Los Angeles, with only four wins in 25 games away from home this season, is 0-14 on the road when trailing after three periods. 
The Clippers, who had 20 turnovers leading to 23 Houston points, were led 
• by Eric Piatkowski with 22 points and Maurice Taylor, who came ofT the bench to hit 21. 
After the Clippers, who surrender a league-worst 103.3 points per game, scored the first four points of the third quarter to lead 63-54, the Rockets woke up with a 1 7-4 burst -including runs of 7-0 and 10-0. The 10-0 spurt included back-to-hack 3-pointers from Drexler and Maloney. Then Barkley's 15-foot jumper with 6:58 to go gave Houston a 
Bucks 83 Pistons 81 

MILWAUKEE 
Armon Gilliam came ofT the bench to score 10 of his 15 points in the fourth quarter Tuesday night to lead the Milwaukee Bucks to an 83-81 victory 
Glenn Robinson scored 12 of his 14 points in the second half for Milwaukee, which has three straight wins for the first time this season. 
Joe Dumars led the Pistons with 20 points, and Grant Hill and Jerry Stackhouse had 1g apiece. Detroit was without leading rebounder Brian Williams, sidelined by a knee injury. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES I ILOST & FOUND I  COMPUTER HELP Set up IBM software Knowledge of Filemaker 3.0, Lotus SmartSuite,  ROOM4Rent $128+util Share house w/ grad stu Good neighborhd 280·5274  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  Aikido -the gentle martial art Classes M 7·8:30, Am 301 &  
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" If anyone at Thurs. Job Fair Spring Break Packages are going picked up a long black Evan  Zip backup and scanning. Good pay. Call Ron 273·1717.  Need roommate. Close to campus.  FOR SALE  F 7:30-9 Am 219 in Rockne.Beginners class starts on  
fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's Piccone woman's dress coat by  $325/mo. 243·0491.  Friday, Jan 30 7:30 after a demo of  
new location and check out the best mistake, call Melissa at 4-0897.  Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM,  Dody Chang sensei from Chicago.  
Spring Break vacations around. Don't take a chance with an  FOR RENT  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  Color monitor includes carrying case, manual, etc.  Bring comfortable clothes.  
unkown agency or some 1·800 LOST: GOLD DOLPHIN  OTHER ND·SMC EVENTS.  Call Greg @ 288-2654  Hey Mr. Grouchy-man,  
number. Limited space available, so BRACELET if found please call  WALK TO CAMPUS  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  I miss you. However, you really  
book now! x0849  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK.  Beautiful Brass bed, queen size,  should run more often. I like you  
Anthony Travel, Inc.  $195/PERSON  243-0658.  with orthopedic Mattress set and  better after you've worked off some  
Lafortune Student Center WANTED631-7080  232-2595  2 BEDRM HOUSE FOR RENT  frame. New, never !.!Sed, still in plastic. $225 219-862-2082  of that anger and frustration. ·Little B.  

••• ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR SPRING BREAK. GROUP DIS­COUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE. 
LEISURE TOURS HAS PACK­AGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. 1-800-838-8203. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 
-THE COPY SHOP -LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! Man -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon • 6:00pm Sun Noon · Midnight 
CALL 631·COPY 

Child care 1 to 3 afternoons per week. 12:30 to 5:30 for two girls ages 4 and 8 (8 year-old after 3:30). Transportation a big plus. Good pay. Call 277-7071. 
Attn· SOPH./ FR. GIRLS: 
.............•..••.....••. 
LEAD SINGER WANTED
.......................... 
I am a Soph. Rhythm Guitarist with ORIGINAL songs looking to start POP/ROCK band. Must love all Top 40 kind of stuff. Call Dan@ x 0817. 
House for Rent 

Two Blocks from Campus 4·5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for Summer. August for Fall. Includes Dishwasher, Washe~/Dryer, Large Backyard and off-street Parking. 
MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED!!! Call289-4712 
4 or 5 bedrm furnished house, w/d, sand volleyball, 119 N. St. Peter, 233·9947 
Furn. 1 bdrm apt., $400/mo, room, $200/mo. Private entrance, kitchen, utilities included, laundry, phone, 2 mn. N. of campus. Call272·0615. 

GRANGER -WASHER, DRYER, REFRIG & STOVE. $695 MONTH PLUS SECURITY CALL BOB 232-6434 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. WASHER/DRYER SUMMER OR FALL.272·6551 
MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO SHARE 2·BDRM HOME. INC. WASHER/DRYER, PHONE, SATELLITE TV. 219-289-1357. 
CUTE 1·BDRM APT. $380 273·3996 
p.s. No, not that one, your little B.
[ TICKETS 
WANTED· ND vs MIAMI B-Balltix Escape! Escape from the battle-on 2/22. Lower arena. ship! 258-1111 
Know what's a good leisure activi· 
PERSONAL 
ty? Printing a 12-page template, and doing it SIX TIMES! There hey ybab must be punishment. 
doya like apples? well, how ya like THEM apples? Did that scare you? 
Kessler, you were late! 
Beat it. Get outta here. End it. NICE 3·4 BEDROOM HOME FOR I'm just a Hutch wannabe! NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD But we all know that nobody could 4 days until the Quad City party ... AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097 come close to the real thing! 
Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
UConn overcomes technicals 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

Hichard Hamilton couldn't shoot and Jim Calhoun couldn't coach after drawing three technical fouls but. somehow, No. 9 Connecticut could win. 
The Huskies, leading by just three points with three minutes left, averted a Big East upset with a 63-56 victory over Providence on Tuesday night. 
Hamilton, who led Connecticut with a 22.5 aver­age, was held to just four points on 2-for-13 shooting. And Calhoun was charged with the three technicals in the sec­ond half N the last two leading to four free throws by Jamel Thomas that tied the score 47­47 with 8:47 to go. 
But the Friars scored just one field goal the rest of the way. 
Kevin Freeman, who sat out Saturday's win at Syracuse with a sprained right wrist, returned to scored 17 points for Connecticut (18-3, 8-2), while Jake Voskuhl added 10. 
Only five players scored for Providence (8-1 0, 3-6). Thomas had 26 and Erron Maxey added 16 as they accounted for 42 of their team's 56 points. 
Hamilton scored fewer than 10 points for only the seventh time in 53 games, all starts, in his two seasons with Connecticut. 
Connecticut led 28-24 at half­time and Calhoun got his first technical 3:13 into the second half. Thomas made both shots, cutting the lead to 34-32. 
Calhoun picked up his second technical -and an automatic ejection -with 8:4 7 left after a foul call against Providence. As he was leaving the bench he was hit with his third technical. It apparently was something he said, since he was hardly demonstrative on any of the technicals. 
After Thomas' four free throws tied the game, the Huskies, who dominated the boards all night, turned up the defense and went ahead to stay on Voskuhl's two free throws with 5:52 to go. 
Khalid El-Amin made it 52­4 7 with a 3-pointer before a three-point play by Maxey cut the lead to two. Then Freeman made a dunk before Llewellyn Cole's free throw left Connecticut ahead 54-51 . 
But Providence coac·h Pete Gillen had taken his last time­out with 6:05 left and could only stop the clock by fouling. The Huskies made seven of eight free throws over the last three minutes. 
The only field goal was Hamilton's with 2:06 to go that gave Connecticut a 58-51 lead. 
The first half was a series of spurts. 
Connecticut went out to a 15­6 lead in the first 10 minutes before a 9-0 Providence run tied the score 15-15 on Justin Farley's 3-pointer with 7:50 left. 
The Huskies followed with a 10-0 surge, then Providence got the next six points to dose within 25-21 with 2:01 left. 
No. 24 Xavier 93 Duquesne 71 
CINCINNATI 

James Posey scored a career­high 25 pointS,.f~IOSt of them on dunks and layups, and matched his career high with 15 rebounds as No. 24 Xavier beat Duquesne 93-71 Tuesday night.
The Musketeers (13-5, 5-3 Atlantic 10) overcame two sea­son-long problems -poor shooting against zone defenses and letdowns in the second half -as they made up for their only home loss of the last two seasons. 
Xavier had won its last 15 games since losing to Duquesne (8-12, 3-5) at Cincinnati Gardens last January, and made sure that there would be no chance for a repeat. 
Xavier had 10 steals and forced 17 turnovers while pulling away to a 52-32 half­time lead. Its varied defenses -full-court press, half-court traps -held the Dukes to 31 percent shooting over the first 18 minutes. 
Overall, Xavier forced 28 turnovers and scored 50 points in the paint. Posey was 1 0-of­15 from the field, 4-of-4 from the foul line and hit his only 3­point attempt. 
Nick Bosnic scored 16 points for Duquesne, which has allowed 90 points five times this season. 
By bouncing back from its weekend loss in Dayton. Xavier preserved its streak of not los­ing consecutive games for two years. 
Xavier has struggled against zone defenses for most of the season because of erratic long­range shooting. Duquesne opened in a zone and Xavier hit five 3-pointers while pulling away in the first 10 minutes. 
Gary Lumpkin, Lenny Brown and Darnell Williams hit con­secutive 3s to start a 15-point run that made it 22-7. Lumpkin hit a 3-pointer and Posey had a layin, a dunk and a layup in a 9-0 spurt over one minute that pushed the lead to 25 points midway through the half. 
Bosnic's 3-pointer got the lead down to 52-37 at the start of the second half, but Xavier pulled away again, pushing the lead to 29 points before the backups took over with 4:00 left. 
~ &.­~~JJtune ~~~;~,~~·')') ~J-41J $./UhiugJtm,-JJ£. • Work in an internship • Study Public Affairs • Fulfill Fine Arts Requirement -Cf(ew Come to the informational meeting Thursday, January 29th 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 115 O'Shaughnessy Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold.l @nd.edu  


:t. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
should shut down the Cat defense. 
Friel feels no pressure to per­form in the manner he did last week, but he knows that his abil­ity is no longer a secret. 
When asked whether he thought the Cats would double­up or at least guard him closer than the Orangemen did, Friel answered, "I would think so, especially the way I've been get­ting open shots." 
"If they don't give me the three, I'll just try to get the short­er shots or move the ball so we can get it inside to Pat," he con­tinued. 
The Irish own the series with the Cats 10-8, but Villanova has beaten Notre Dame three years in a row. A win over the Cats would allow the Irish to maintain momentum as they travel to St. John's this weekend. However, the Cats desperately need to regain some momentum as they will host Miami and then head to Connecticut. 

N!Jira Dame Communication aod Theatre presents 

Biddy Wells wm ~resent Beypd the Grm ASelact;on ot Ghosts 1n Stones. 
Poems. and (o;J~D; 
Tu1nir;. fehru~ry 3 430 pHL Washington HaH fm aM open to :he PLit!ic 
Peter lindford wi\1 pre-senl The Poetry of Pnli;p Larkin: Ihe Pqems of a 
Ver·• Prriale Man 
Wednesday febrwy 4 4:3J pm.Wash!ng!or Ha!! fre~ ;nd OIJI)n ta he public 


a a u e a

=-a 4 4 SO ¥ -a a _u as. & a _ a aa ¥£.2 a
••.... • 

\;. ... ' 
' 

... Wednesday, January 28, 1 998 
page 14 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Student Award 
Maureen Neville is a junior residing in Lewis Hall, where she serves as the Athletic Commissioner. Hailing from Aberdeen, New Jersey, Maureen is pursuing a degree in Civil Engineering. Maureen is a graduate of St. John Vianni High School where she lettered in basketball and softball. Affectionately known as "Mo Dawg" by her womenrs football team, Mo has been involved in every aspect of RecSports. She has played intramural football, basketball, softball and floor hockey and officiated basketball. She is currently training with the Women's Boxing Club. She has participated in Late Night Olympics and served as the LNO rep for Lewis this year. Maureen has also taken RecSports fitness classes for the last three years. 
Recipients receive <Xt..c.~ merchandise from the 
A& 
VARSITY SHOP
.._._, 
"Specializing in Autlumtic 
Notre Danw Sportn·vear" 
(Joyce Center) 

~ 
VaRSITY SHOP
...., 
"5/Jecia/iz.ing in A.utlu:nric 
Notrt' Dame Sportswear'' 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <X~~ 
d. 1'11' L.. • . a:l '1.
h

mere an 1se courtesy of ~ ~ and the v••; located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 

al\z 'It

v... is open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:OOpm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 

o I 
..

$ $ a
tiZ?tuo· · ec ·o : t d t 
Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

LaFontaine joins list of hockey's top scorers 
Rangers' center 50th to join 1, 000-point club 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Joining the 1 ,000-point club was probably more meaning­ful for Pat LaFontaine than most NJIL players. 
It wasn't only that the New York Rangers' center had become the 50th player in his­tory to reach the milestone when he had a goal and an assist last week against the Philadelphia Flyers. Just as important to LaFontaine, he was still playing at a high level consistent with his career. 
After all, this is a comeback year for LaFontaine, who missed most of last season because of a concussion. 
"It is a special feeling to achieve something like that, especially when I did not think I would have that opportunity last year at this' time," said LaFontaine, who joined Joey Mullen and Phil Housley as Americans reaching the 1 ,000-point plateau. 
LaFontaine, acquired by the Hangers just before the season from the Buffalo Sabres, is currently the team's leading scorer with 20 goals and 32 assists in 51 games. 
llis performance has won him a spot on the United States' Olympic roster for the Olympics, and tabbed him as a prime candidate for the Masterton Trophy, the NIIL award for comeback player of the year. With only 13 minor penalties so far, LaFontaine also could be considered for the Lady Byng Trophy for gen­tlemanly conduct on the ice. 
"He's played hard for us, he loves playing in the city here, the fans are great to him and it's a well deserved honor for the adversity he's battled through," teammate Wayne Gretzky says of LaFontaine reaching the 1 ,000-point mile­stone. "You know any time a player accomplishes some­thing it's always something special. 
"But when you get a guy of his class and his stature, that's great for the game. It's good to see good people suc­ceed, and it was a good moment for him." 
When LaFontaine first came over from the Sabres, there were questions about his health and ability to stand up to the game-to-game pounding considering his condition. Some people called him fool­ish to try a comeback after a serious head injury, despite 
the $4.8 million salary. It was 
not the first concussion of 
LaFontaine's career. 

But LaFontaine, a gritty 5­foot-1 0, 180-pounder, stood up under the punishment. 
The 32-year-old LaFontaine has been wearing a helmet with extra padding and a mouthguard which, he says, helps to protect against con­cussions. 
Rangers coach Colin Campbell said the Philadelphia game is further proof of LaFontaine's success. 
"He competed well against a big team and that's been the big question in his come­back," Campbell said. 
LaFontaine played eight sea­sons with the New York Islanders after a stint with the 
U.S. team at the 1984 Olympics. He spent six years in Buffalo before his trade to the Rangers. 
After 849 games, he has scored 1,003 points (465 goals, 5:38 assists). 
"I think Pat in th~ last (few games) has proved he can compete," Campbell said. "He's played aggressive, he's answered back and his physi­cal play mirrors his point pro­duction. 
"He's going to be tested in these games, and they think he'll go away. He hasn't gone away." 

New Riders • Ziff-Davis Press • Waite Group Press • sams.net • Hayden Books Cisco Press • Adobe Press • Borland Press • Red Hat Press • Lycos 
is an unlimited green rebate machine that puts money in your pocket for every book you purchase. The more books you buy, the more bucks you get back. 
Just find the computer book you need, follow the instructions on the rebate form available in the bookstore, and you'll receive $10 back for every book with a suggested retail price of $14.99 and higher:" No questions. No hassles. Just dear solutions and money back. 
Hop over today and send in for your $10 rebate! 

See store for rebate .form. Forms must be mailed by February I 5th. 

"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 
www. ndbookstore .com 

Copyroght C 1997 Macmollan Compuler Publoshong USA A Somon & Schusler Compaey The Publo&l'ong ()perdlooo ol Voacom. Inc 
NHL'Team Standings 
GP NORTHEAST DIVISION 
PITTSBURGH  51  
MONTREAL  51  
BOSTON  49  
OTIAWA  51  
BUFFALO  48  
CAROLINA  51  

ATLANTIC DIVISION 
NEW JERSEY 50 PHILADELPHIA 49 WASHINGTON 51 NY RANGERS 51 FLORIDA 51 NY ISLANDERS 51 TAMPA BAY 50 
CENTRAL DIVISION 
DALLAS 52 DETROIT 52 STLOUIS 53 PHOENIX 51 CHICAGO 50 TORONTO 49 
PACIFIC DIVISION 
COLORADO 53 LOS ANGELES 59 EDMONTON 51 SAN JOSE 59 ANAHEIM 51 CALGARY 51 VANCOUVER 51 

w L T PTS GF GA 
27 15 9 63 142 116 26 18 7 59 153 124 21 19 9 51 122 121 21 22 8 50 118 118 19 21 8 46 117 117 19 26 6 44 127 127 
····:~w~\-: 
31 15 \\svl 66 148 102 28 12%!i{ $... 65 147 105
25 17 ~, 9 ... 59 
144 129 16 . 21 14 45 129 139 15 25 11 41 125 149 
1s .· M!· 7 39 
128 . 148 

9. 33 a 26 88 162 
~~i~~,Jl-'~t!~ 
20 21 .9.iMt49··. 121 117 17 25 7< 41 . 118 143 
25 12 16 66 155 127 21 19 9 51 139 136 18 24 9 45 130 145 18 24 7 43 120 132 17 25 9 43 124 151 13 28 10 36 128 160 12 31 8 32 131 184 
HOME ROAD 
12·7-5 15-8-4 11-10-5 15-8·2 9-8-5 12-11-4 12-12-1 9-10·7 12·8·3 7·13·5 13·11·5 6·15-1 
20-7-0 11-8-4 15-6-4 13-6-5 13-7-4 12-10-5 10-11·8 6-10-6 5·13-5 10-12-6 8·13-5 8·15-5 7-12-6 2·21-2 
15·5-5 22-8·4 17·7-4 17-10-8 15·8·5 16-11·4 13·7·5 16-12·4 10-12-6 12-14·9 8-12-4 13·15·6 
12-5-10 16·8-8 
13·8-2 13·12-3 
9-11-4 14·16-4 
8-13-4 11-15-3 
8-14-4 10-15-5 
9-13-3 8-20-7 
6-14-4 9-21-7 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Shorin"Ryu Karate ,__ This semester~long course meets in· Rockne Room 219on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6~7:30 p.m., starting Jan, 29. You must register in advance at RecSports and· the fee is $18.00. A demonstration will be held at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday. Jan. 27. in Rockne Room 219. Call1~8237. 
Ballet-RecSports will be sponsoring Beginner and Advanced Ballet. Both classes are semester·long classes with a fee of $35. All classes will be held in Rockne Rm. 301. Oasses will begin on Saturday, Jan. 31. 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will be offered Saturdays and Tu~sdays from 12 p.m.· 

1:30 p.m. {Sat.) and 8-9 p.m. (Tues.) in Rockne Rm. 301. · 
Downhill Ski Trip RecSports will be sponsoring a Downhill Ski trip to Swiss Valley on Friday, Jan. ·30. The buses will leave the Library Circle at 5 p.m~ and return to 
>r: 
campus at approximately 11 
p.m. The fee for those needing to rent skis is $28, and for those who will bring their own skis, the cost is $19. Register in advance at RecSports on or before Wednesday, Jan. 28. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics -RecSports will be sponsoring three clinics this winter. The first clinic will be on Saturday, Jan. 31. at 11 a.m. and there will be two offered on Saturday, Feb. 7, one at 10 
a.m. and the second one at 2 
p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $4 rental fee if you· need to rent skis. Registration in advance is required for all three cross· country ski clinics. 
Aikido -Classes on Monday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in Room 301, and Friday from 7:30 to 
9:30 p.m. in Room 219 in Rockne. Beginners' class starts on Friday, Jan. 30, at 7:30 after a demonstration with Dody Chang, sensei from Chicago. Bring ~omfortable clothes. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

Attors fro1n tl1e Loil<ioil St(lg·e AMidsummer Night~s Dream 
by  William  Shakespeare  
Thursday. February 5.. . . ...  .. ........ 7:30 pm  Saturday Matinee. February 7........ 230 pm  
Friday. February 6............................. 7:30 pm  Saturday. February 7........................... 7:30 pm  

Playing at Washmgton Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors $14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
The residency of Actors from the London Stage 1s sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 

usa c a use u
= a 
I r -&1 ··~· --. 
I 
t 
t I 
t I. Wednesday, January 28, 1998
I page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
I 
...­
I • NBA All-STAR GAME 
I 
I Four Lakers join All-Star team 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
For the first time since 1983, a team will have four players in the NBA All-Star game, with Los Angeles Lakers guards Nick Van Exel and Eddie Jones chosen as reserves Tuesday, joining starters Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant. 
"One of my main goals this season was to play like an All­Star, and maybe then get selected to the All-Star team," Van Exel said. 
Van Exel will be making the trip to the game with his close friend Jones. 
'If they hadn't voted me on and not voted Nick on, I might have been disappointed," Jones said. "It's a relief to see him honored. He's been one of the top guards in the Western Conference since I've been here." 
The last team to have four players in the game was Philadelphia, with Julius Erving, Moses Malone, Maurice Cheeks and Andrew Toney on the Eastern Conference team 15 years ago. 
The four Lakers will play for the Western Conference team against the East in the Feb. 8 game in Madison Square Garden. 
Other reserves added to the 
• AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

West roster were San Antonio forward Tim Duncan, the only rookie on either squad, and his teammate, center David Robinson; forward Vin Baker of Seattle; and guards Mitch Richmond of Sacramento and Jason Kidd of Phoenix. 
Selected as East reserves were guard Reggie Miller and center Rik Smits of Indiana, center-forward Jayson Williams of New .Jersey, for­wards Glen Rice of Charlotte and Antoine Walker of Boston and guards Tim Hardaway of Miami and Steve Smith of Atlanta. 
The 14 reserves were added to the teams by a vote of the coaches in each conference. 
Van Exel clashed publicly last season with Lakers coach Del Harris, with the two arguing on the bench during a playoff game. 
"I would have felt badly for either one who didn't make it," Harris said of Van Exel and Jones. "The odds were only one would be chosen." 
Van Exel said he worked hard during the summer in an effort to change people's per­ceptions of him. 
"I've always wanted to play, but I've been put in negative situations and been looked at in a negative way, like pushing a referee and arguing with the 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
If Pete Sampras packs quickly, 
he can catch the same long flight 
home as Andre Agassi. 
They can commiserate about the Australian Open that slipped away, the one they were poised to rule until they met in the final. 
Or so they thought. 
Karol Kucera? No way Sampras, or anyone else, figured the Slovakian could beat him for a berth in the semifinals against Petr Korda. Kucera hadn't beat­en anybody in 10 Grand Slam tournaments and had never gone beyond the third round in any of the six others he played. 
Yet there was Kucera in the cool, starry night Tuesday, transforming himself into a vision of silky elegance while crafting a 6-4, 6-2, 6-7 (7-5), 6-3 work of art against Sampras, the defending champion. 
And there was Sampras, win­ner of 10 major titles and recently voted by his peers as 

•• ...."'!" 
the greatest player of past quar­ter century, looking utterly pedestrian. 
Twenty-four hours after little Alberto Berasategui of Spain ran Agassi out of the tournament, Kucera caught the same upset fever. 
"He played the match of his life," Sampras said. "I just ran into a hot player. It must be easy to play me because these guys have nothing to lose, just swing away. And he played great. I give him all the credit in the world.'' 
Kucera, ranked No. 20 and under the tutelage lately of 1988 Olympic champion Miloslav Mecir, has been hot since the start of the year. He led Slovakia to the Hopman Cup title in Perth, captured a tuneup in Sydney and in the Austr'alian extended his winning streak to 12 matches. 
"My goal this year is not to lose a match," Kucera joked in a heavy monotone voice that never wavers. He betrays no emotion on or off the court. 
j 1. 
I I ( 
'' 
'l 
I, 
i' 
'I ( i 1 l 
f 
I I! 
coach," he said. "I said to myself, this is my year. I worked all summer to make it." 
Larry Bird of" Indiana will coach the East and George Karl of Seattle will coach the West. 
Asked about the chances of Karl playing all four Lakers at the same time, Harris said, "It would be quite a thing. Knowing George, he probably will. He likes to do different things, unusual things, at least just for a couple of minutes." 
Earlier, the fans voted for the starters. Chosen to start for the East were forwards Grant Hill of Detroit and Shawn Kemp of Cleve land, cen tcr Dikembe Mutombo of Atlanta and guards Michael Jordan of Chicago and Penny Hardaway of Orlando. 
The West starters, in addition to O'Neal at center and Bryant at guard, will be forwards Kevin Garnett of Minnesota and Karl Malone of Utah and guard Gary Payton of Seattle. 
Seventeen of the 29 teams will be represented on the East and West rosters. 
Duncan is the first rookie selected since Hill in 1995. Since he was previously select­ed to play in the Schick Rookie game on the eve of the All-Star game, he will have to be replaced on the West rookie team. 

Defending champion Sampras falls in quarterfinals 
But nothing in the undistin­Kucera's two-fisted backhands Kucera's game, though, was his guished way Kucera went about flicked perfect groundstrokes return of serve. He caught up to getting to the quarterfinals -he into the corners. His fluid fore­apparent aces and drove them met only one seed, No. 10 Sergi hands kept Sampras running back before Sampras could Bruguera, who retired with blis­behind the baseline. And when react. He hit returns to Sampras' ters, and had a tough time in Kucera served, he dominated, feet, or just put them back in other matches -hinted he was whacking 18 aces to Sampras' play, frustrating Sampras, who capable of beating Sampras so mere seven. is used to many more free easily. Perhaps th§ best part of points. 


Thursday, January 29 4 p.m. 120 DeBartolo Hall 
Followed by 
A Discussion with Ms. Maitland 
Friday, January 30 
10 a.rn. 131 Decio Faculty 
ERASMUS INSTITUTE 
; 
.. ......... ;;E

,. 
___._______ ..
.._·~-•-~~-~Z·,_.. ___ ·--~-----~----~~ -·· -~-~--------~-~ 
----~--~­
Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
•NHl 
Penguins make Jagr NHL's highest-paid player 
J 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Jaromir Jagr always wanted to play like Mario Lemieux. Now, he'll be paid like him. 
Jagr, thr-Pittsburgh Penguins' brightest star now that Lemieux has retired, agreed Tuesday to a four-year contract extension worth $38 million that will at least temporarily make him the NHL's highest-paid player. 
The total value of what now becomes a six-year contract is $48 million, Jagr will make $5.1 million this season and $4.75 million next under his old con­tract before his salary climbs to $9.5 million in the 1999-2000 season. 
The NIIL scoring leader would become the league's first $10 million-a-year player when he makes $10.4 million in 2003-04, though another player probably will have long since eclipsed that figure by then. 
Currently, the NHL's top con­tracts belong to Philadelphia's Eric Lindros and Anaheim's Paul Kariya, who will make $8.5 million next season. Both could be making $10 million each even before Jagr's exten­sion kicks in. 
Colorado's Joe Sakic is in the first season of a $21 million, three-year contract that includ­ed a $15 million signing bonus and $2 million in salary this season. Philadelphia's Chris Gratton has a $16.5 million, five-year deal that consisted largely of $9 million signing bonus. 
"You never know where the dollars are going to go," said Jagr, who was joined at a short news conference by his mother and girlfriend. "But I want to play here and I want to stay here. I want to finish my career here." 
Jagr's deal eclipses the $42 million, seven-year deal 
reached by Lemieux in October 1992. 
However, that contract was reworked several times before Lemieux retired last spring, and 
'YOU NEVER KNOW WHERE THE DOLLARS ARE GOING TO GO. BUT I WANT TO PLAY HERE AND I WANT TO STAY HERE. I 
WANT TO FINISH MY 
CAREER HERE.' 

}AROMJR }AGR 
P!ITSBURGH PENGUINS 
the Penguins still owe him money. 
One reason why the Penguins didn't want to rework the remaining two years of Jagr's contract was the deferred money owed Lemieux, who made $11 million last year and reportedly is making $8 million this season. 
"I talked to him (Lemieux) and I asked him what to sign for," Jagr said. "He said (to sign for) exactly what ! signed for right now." 
The two sides were close to agreeing to a $53 million, seven-year contract last month before Jagr, after seeing how much Kariya and Lindros will make, decided he wanted a shorter contract. 
Still, Jagr said he wasn't par­ticularly interested in getting into any year-to-year one­upmanship. 
"It's a great tribute to Jaromir, because who's kidding who in this day and age of play­ers leapfrogging over each other and all wanting to say, "My contract is bigger, or your contract is bigger," Penguins co-owner Howard Baldwin said. 
"He wanted to make a long­term commitment and we want­ed to make a long-term commit­ment to him," Baldwin said. "We're very proud of Jaromir for taking that position." 
Jagr, the only European to win an NHL scoring champi­onship, has been a star almost since the day he joined the Penguins' lineup in late 1990 as an 18-year-old from Czechoslovakia who could bare­ly speak a word of English. 
He won Stanley Cup champi­onships with Pittsburgh in his first two NHL seasons in 1991 and 1992, leading a comeback over the favored New York Rangers in the 1992 playoffs after Lemieux broke a wrist. He took advantage of Lemieux's one-season layoff in 1994-95 to win the scoring title that Lemieux returned to win the next two seasons. 
With his flowing, unkempt hair and unrivaled one-on-one scoring moves, Jagr is popular among the younger fans the NHL has long cultivated. He was the leading vote-getter for the World team that lost to a North American team 8-7 in the NHL All-Star game on Jan. 18. 
Penguins co-owner Roger Marino said Jagr's popularity and marketability make him one. of the league's -and Pittsburgh's -most valuable assets. 
'The first time I saw him, I thought, 'Why isn't this guy marketed like (Wayne) Gretzky?"' Marino said. "The kids love him. He has style and he's also a great player." 
ct_) Bed 'N Breakfast Registry Try the Option 
A "Home Away from Home!" 
FB-Grad-Fr. Or.-JPW 
219-291-7153 

FRIDAY &SATURDAYS •10PM·3AM 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS ALWAYS LOOKING FOR NEW VOLUNTEERS TO WORK SAFERIDE. CALL MARY@ 1·9888 FOR MORE INFO. 
NEED RESIDENCE liFE COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS~ 
J

stu ent 

page 18 
Women 
continued from page 1 
of-12 from three-point range as they defeated the Wildcats, 77­54 at the duPont Pavilion. One month later, Notre Dame shot an impressive 49.1 pp,rcent from the field. and senior guard Mollie Peirick dominated at both ends of the court as the Irish swept the series with a 68-51 victory at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame has been on a roll this season as well, having won 10 of its last 11 contests. After a two-point loss at Boston College, the Irish rebounded with a 87-69 victory over Syracuse on the road, before heading home to defeat Providence by a score of 109­
60. In the rout of the Friars, Notre Dame shot 50 percent from the field, while outre­bounding the visitors 45-39. 

"I think this was the most bal­anced offensive performance we've had this season," head coach Muffet McGraw said about the Providence game. 
"I think that last year, if we scored a lot of points, it would be Katryna, Beth [Morgan] and Sheila [McMillen], and that would be pretty much it. This year, we just have so much more balance with Danielle Green and Niele lvey and our freshmen who are playing so well." 
However, the Irish may have to face off against the Wildcats without one of their stars. In the win against Providence, Peirick came down badly on her right ankle, which aggra­vated an injury suffered two weeks before. While she was able to walk off the court under her own power, she did not return for the rest of the game. 
"She turned it before the 

The Observer/Rob Finch 

Junior guard Danielle Green has been a pleasant surprise for Muffet McGraw's squad this season. 

Learn how to teach fitness classes with this 8 week course. 
*Injury Prevention *CueingTechniques *Choreography *Class Structure '-*Elements of Music *Exercise Technique *Muscle Conditioning 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Boston College game and wasn't able to practice before the game," McGraw said about Peirick's injury. "She played that game, however. She prob­ably won't practice now before the Villanova game. Right now, she's listed as a 'probable' on the lineup." 
On a brighter note, Notre Dame freshman Huth Riley was named Big East rookie of the week on Monday. Riley regis­tered a career-high 29 points and 13 rebounds against Syracuse last Wednesday, which made her the first Irish women's basketball player to record five consecutive double­doubles. In the Providence game last weekend, she had 11 points and eight boards. Hiley is also ranked 11th in the nation in blocked shots. 
"I think Ruth has progressed a little bit further than we had thought she would," McGraw said about Riley's performance. "We did think that she would have a big advantage in size against Providence. They defended her pretty well, and we didn't do a good job at get­ting her the ball." 
The battle between the Irish and the Wildcats will begin tonight at 7 p.m. at The Pavilion. 


Si mangia malissimo a scuola. 

Tired of the school cafeteria? Just because you're a student doesn't mean you have to eat like one. Fazoli's features 12 authentic Italian menu items priced under S4. 


52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 W McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street 262-9873, Elklzart 
Hey Juniors, Don't Forget!! 
Important Information about Jh~
Seating 
Registration 
(fo~ Dinner and Brunch)
I 
1 

One person must have all three IDs of each individual in their party. 
Like to 
READ?f?f
I .... 
Interested in being a reader or intercessor at the Junior Parents' Weekend Mass? 
I 

Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
The Observer/Rob Finch Guard lmani Dunbar will look to make an impact for the Irish tonight when they travel to Villanova. 
~16N UP~ 8((jl~ 
II 29, 8:00A~ @ 
l!fC~POI!T~ 
I ­

TUf~DAY~, 
6:30008:30 21303/31 
' 
.~ 
n 

January 27• 28• 29 @ the CCE from 4-9 p.m. 
'9 

L----There will be nine 
Contact Jennie Phillip~ 105965 for more info. 
JPW weekend 
(February 19-2.4, 1998) 
Need a place for your family to stay? Try Sacred Heart's Parish Center. (St. Joseph Hall on campus.) 
We set a $50.00 per person donation for the weekend. Come Early (Thursday), Stay Late (Tuesday) Same low price. 
For reservations please call Mr. Paul Eddy at 631.-7 512 
I 

people at each table. All participants must 
'b 

be paid in full. 
Auditions will be held •' 
,
at the Basilica on Feb. 9, I 0 from 4-5 p.m. 
•
Please attend one day. 
Questions??? Calll-6028 



Wednesday, January 28, 1998 page 19
The Observer • TODAY 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


If you thought there was a slight connection between striking a loved one, vandalizing property, getting arrested, throwing up, ·getting injured, ruining relationships, and artichokes, you would 
probably stop eating artichokes .... 
Do any of these things happen when you drink alcohol? Then 
maybe it is time you stop. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 



MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
t-D_E_P_U_TY_O_F_C_O_M_M_O_N_S_E.N_5_E.__. gr::Y=O=U='=R=E.=M=I=S=5=1N=G:=1'H::::::E:::::::1 
YOU ARE. ACCUSED Of' 
TRYING TO f'o\OTIVATE 
YOUR EMPLOYEE5 WITH 
CROSSWORD 
.... 

® ~ S't'/"'\BOLI5M. 1 GA\JE ~ THEM CHES5 PIECES TO ~ <( SHOW THf\T WE'RE ALL 
.... 
u 
c 
.. 
u 
,• 
c:
,., 
(/) 
•.. " ~ 
LL 
, 
-~ 

MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
5PECIFI­

I'tv\ SAVING 
CALLY, 'r'OU 

T'"'E ROOKS
GAVE THEf"\ 

FOR !;ONUS
Pt..WNS. 



Crossword-
Edited by Will Shortz 
1 L1terary olios 31 Sch. lia1sons 57 Creepy
5 Some nerve 33 Fury 58 Lug
10 They go over 34 Texas·s 59 F. D. A.'s Scottie 
your part Houston so Towels
14 Sweater eater 35 Prefix w1th 6t Over15 "~--Knows" system
(Dian & the 
36 Rudely terse

Belmonts hit) 
DOWN
38 Bnstle on barley

16 Chase in the 39 Inv1olate 1 Prefix with polar 
mOVIeS 42 Lass specified 
2 Group standard17 Group endured madras?

chickenhouse 3 Bit 
45 With 49-Down, 

disaster? 4 Grow rapidly
"The Ftrm" actor

20 Enduring s Treading the
46 Smelter's stuff 
boards21 Mistreat 

47 ~-rasa (clean 
6 Kcompound

22 Relattves of 
slate) Rafael 
1 Dte, e.g.
so Periodic 8 Daughter of23 Oversupply payments Cadmus. in24 Spirit of an evil 54 Significant mythevtl spirit? danger to beef? 

9 Every gan;on has one 10 Sledder's

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZU starting potnt 

11 Big surname in baseball 
13 "Smooth Operator" singer 
19 Nasty bugs 23 Island discovered by Magellan 
opportunity 
26 Yemen1's neighbor 

27 Starter homes? 28 Spiked 29 Quirk 32 Turf 34 Pen that swims 37 Baja California . 
city 38 Chagrined 39 Pixies 40 Beth's preceder 41 City NNE of 
Naples 43Airhead 
44 Country singer 50 Indira s dress West 
51 Gas in Vegas 47 Weekly 
52 Number in a"Whew!" 
letter
48 First word of the "Aeneid" 
53 Worry 
49 See 45-Across 55 Aye 

Answers to any three clues m th1s puzzle are ava1lable by touch-tone phone • 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscnpttons are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years• 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
No. 1030 
Aries: 

FriPnds and arquaintanrl's rome out of the woodwork today with thPir offPrs for help. You arr in thl' unique position of being able to pick who you want instPad of working with whoPVPr is availablP. 
Taurus: 

Unless you arl' in a servicP profes­sion, work is mostly about getting thP job done. Today you may havP to hold snml'one's hand and reassure thPm that thPy rPally do matter. Try to sound sin­cl'rP. 
GPmini: 

PrPparP yourst~lf for a day of intPIIt•c­tual stimulation. You mePt someone whosf~ opinions set you otT on an Pntirely new train or thought. You might aetually h!arn something nf'w today. 
Cancl'r: 

When it romcs to sharing with oth­ers, you may be in for a hard tim<>. Personal values and the value of resources will be two of the issues on the table today. Try not to ruin any friendships over this. 
Leo: 

If you can't be on your best bPhavior today. perhaps you should consider staying home. Your lark or considera­tion might really offend someone. Remove your teeth from a problem instead of shaking it around. 
Virgo: 

If something old has become useless. toss it out and start something new. Whether it's a system. a relationship. or food that's spoih•d in the fridge, this is your day to gPt rid of dead weight and 
• OF INTEREST Van driver.. training course Will be offered for all those. who have not previously attended and are plan* 
ning to requesf'use of the Center for Social Concerns vans.. The course wiU.be held today at 6 p.m. at the 
csc~nt>i!i.s1 ,.;.;;;;:.;;: ';:::· __ ..-_ :~:;;i;;,;;;,1~~~~~i ·-+ tt ,:::; __ , 
•
Thomas Aquinas Celebration -There 
will .be a Mass at 5 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. Sponsored by the Institute of Medieval Studies, the feature t by the Schola 

South North Chili Crispitoes Chicken and Dumplings Meatless Baked Ziti BBQ Beef Sandwich Szechuan BecfStir·Fry Grilled Swordfish Cheese Enchiladas Vegetarian Tamale Pie Grilled Swordfish Neapolitan Style Spaghetti 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
faulty men:handisP. 
Libra: 
This is a day, to expPrt thP unPXpPet­
Pd. Homancl' and art could find thP-ir 
way into your life. WhatPver you do 
today feels remarkably rrPatiVP and 
original. 
Scorpio: 
BP opl'n-minded and fair whPn it comes to a family dispute. The easiPst solution may not bP thP right one. A rad­ical approach might not work. rither. but at l!'ast it g!'ts PVPryone thinking. 
Sagittarius: 
You are a rll'aringhousP for good idt•as. I'Nlplr in planning and markPting are worth tlwir WPight in gold today. ConvPrsations and Plet'tronir communi­r.ation arc your strong suit fur tht• nPxt fpw days. 
Capricorn: 
Your crazy ideas may bP amusing. but you would be wise not to a('( on them. Shop only for your immt>diate or foreseeable nPeds. Bt> suspicious of any qu!'stion that requires a long answer. 
Aquarius: 
Art on your own bPhalf today. Play with sdf-transformation until your look matt'hes how you feel. This is a day to let your innner wildness show. Don't r.onccrn yourself too much with the reactions of othPrs. 
Pisces: 
Your unconscious mind is making <'. lot of noise. Perhaps you have too many unsolvPd problems in your head. Hemembering your dreams provides you with a kPy to what is rea!ly happen­ing. 



F 
;sa 
¥ ,D. ¥. C£UL 

-0-UP-:.--a 4
. ' • 
l ' 
I. 
1., 
., 
! i SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 


Irish prepare to tussle 'Cats 
Ingelsby looks forward to facing dad's alma mater 


By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor 
With the momentum in its favor, the Notre Dame men's basketball team has possibly one of the biggest challenges of the season ahead of it tonight. 
The Irish are coming off two eonsecutive victories over ranked teams. \\ith the win over the West Virginia Mountaineers on Jan. 15 the first of its kind since Notre Dame upset No. 22 Marquette in 1994. 


Senior star Pat Garrity claimed last Wednesday's 83-63 rout of the Syracuse Orangemen, No. 15 at the time, as the biggest win of his career. 
However, tonight's game against the 7-10 Wildcats team could present the Irish with an even bigger challenge. 
After jumping out to a 4-0 start in the conference, the Cats are coming off not only a five­game conference losing streak, but a five-game losing streak in general. If there is ever a team that needs a \\in, it is Villanova, and it hopes to accomplish that tonight. 
"Villanova is a very streaky team," said guard Keith Friel, who is coming off a career-high 30 points with a record-setting eight three-pointers against Syracuse. "They won their first four Big East games, but have lost their last five. There is no 

J· 
doubt they will be at their peak performance because they need a win." 


• WOMHf S BASKETBALl 

Red hot Riley ready for 'Nova 


The Observer/Brandon Can dura 
Freshman point guard Martin lngelsby is looking forward to playing the team which his dad starred for from 1970-73. 
What remains so challenging able victories. turning point of the season, and for the Irish, how~ver, is that The Irish have the chance it can turn its 4-4 conference they themselves having been tonight to prove that they are a mark into a winning record. guilty of being called streaky. solid team and that the last two For the first time since the Irish The Irish in the past have a ten­wins were not a fluke. The entered the covference three dency to be giant-killers, but team has a chance to show that seasons ago, ~hey could be then lose what are easily attain-the West Virginia game was the taken seriously . 
win over St. John's on Wednesday, but fell 59-55 to West Virginia on Sunday. Junior Jenn Sliwa recorded a game-high 21 points on an 8­for-10 shooting performance against the Storm. 
Senior Jenny lliggins hit for 17 points also, including four three-pointers. The Wildcats were 9-for-26 bevond the arc, but just 4-for-8 at the free throw line. VU is attempting 20 threes per game and is making seven per contest. Higgins is ranked second in the nation from beyond the arc, averaging 
3.8 three-pointers per game. Before this week's action, the Wildcats won four straight con­test to start the month of January. 
This will be the only meeting of the regular season between the Irish and the Wildc~ts, with Notre Dame leading the series 5-2. Last season, former Irish player Katryna Gaither scored 22 points, and the Irish went 7­
see WOMEN I page 18 
"I Notre Dame head basket­ball! Coach MacLeod keeps emphasizing to us that we have a chance to make some nois(~ in the Big East," freshman guard Martin lngelsby commented. "This is a big game for us, espe­cially because it is at home." 
The game is cspeeially big for Ingelsby, a Philadelphia native whose father played at Villanova from 1970-73. Martin's father, Tom, was the starting guard for the Wildcat 
team  that advanced  to  tlw  
NCAA  championship  game  
against UCLA in 1971.  

"It feels good to get a chanr.c to play Villanova, since I grew up liking it and my Dad went there," I ngelsby said. 
Ingclsby will match up against fellow freshman Jermaine Medley, who is averaging 5.6 points per. gam(~. The main concern for the Irish will be junior center Howard Brown, who is averaging 11.R points per game and 5.1 rebounds. 
With 6-foot-1 0 center Malik Allen averaging 7.4 rebounds a game for the Cats, junior center Phil Hickey will have to contin­ue his strong performance off the boards in order to get the ball in the hands of the Irish. 
for Notre Dame, if Keith friel can have the kind of game he had last week, the combination of Garrity's conference-leading performance with the outside threat of both Friel and lngelsby 
see IRISH I page I 3 
By BILL HART Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will hope to improve on its conference record tonight in a Big East road contest against conference rival Villanova. However, despite a remarkable offensive performance on Saturday against Providence, an injury to a key starter for the Irish may be a factor against them in tonight's contest. 

The Wildcats earned a 71-40 

Men's Basketball, 

Hockey, 
vs. Villanova 

vs. Michigan 
• Four Lakers added to All-Star team 
Jan. 28, 7:30p.m. 

Jan. 28, 7:30p.m. 
'. 
see page 16 
Women's Basketball, 

Swimming and Diving • Penguins sign Jagr 
at Villanova 

vs. DePauw 
see page 17
Jan. 28, 7:30p.m. 

Jan. 30, 7:30p.m. 
~--------------~-----~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 

:~1;ttsillll!i~::::::~w,}~; · • Govemment at-a-glance: A look.at what it means to take charge otSMC. . p. 2 i Key Issues: W~at the student .n body wants iMits'feagers. p. 2·3 .-:~~,·,~::\::=:=:~=:~:::m::t:::,@=· .::.·-==:-~-=~-~=:r:::::·,:,:,·· • Meet the candidates: Profiles +of the two tickets squaring off for the student body presidency. p. 3  .. 

Wednesday, January 28, 1998 • A special supplement to The Observer 
THE GREAT DEBATES 
SMC candidates 'face/off' 
By SHANA'E TATE News Writer 
Last night's debates between stu­dent body president and vice presi­dent hopefuls Katie Webby/Kelly Madden and Sarah Siefert/Nancy Midden were short and sweet due to two factors: the reduced number of tickets and some confusion regarding the format of the evening. 
Traditionally the assembly of prospective SGA front-runners has followed a debate format. However....~•~,...~,. j ust as a rilllllllllillllllllllllllll•l 
sparked banter 
WHEN:Thursday, all 

began between day. Vote between 7~9
the tickets last night, Board of 
a.m.,J 1 a.m;~2 p.m. Governance 
and 4:30"'6:30 p.m. elections com­missioner 
WHERE: The Janet Horvath 
LeMansside ofthe The Observer/Manuela Hemandez interjected and 
Saint Mary's students gathered last night in Haggar Parlor to meet and question the
dining hall. 

women hoping to serve them next year as student president and vice president. 
insisted. "I 
don't want to 
s r.lrltl.....

•Ifnecessary, a run-off review days with their professors. candidates; the vice presidential can­t is so appealing turn this into a 
election will take plafe They also would like "to bring back didates were later questioned about , the Wehby/Madden ticket
debate. This is 
the (Board of Governance] career and Student Academic Council expanding
em Moiulay, same place

just a question counseling commissioner." its roles. "I would collaborate with the is that they complement each 
andtimes.

and answer 
The SieferVMidden ticket stated that Student Activities Board to bring in 
other.
session." 
creating an admission commissioner other speakers to talk to the women of 
Throughout the discussion, the 
was the most important on their plat­Saint Mary's College about certain 
Wehby/Maddcn ticket enforced many 
form. "1 think as student leaders this issues," said Madden, a current co­
of their ideas on their platform, such oflic~ ofstudent body president apd vice 
is something that is really important chair on SAB. 
as re-establishing study days. When president~ The Oh$13rv~r ·has chosen tQ
to us to continue to strengthen Saint Topics discussed included charac­
the candidates were asked if they endorse theWehby/Madden ticket.. .. w
Mary's," said Siefert. They also elabo· teristics that make a leader, motiva­
It was clear from the interviews thafeould accomplish only one goal from 
rated on their desire to make a tion and apathy, diversity and Saint 
both tickets are. more than qualified totheir platform, Wehby responded that stronger connection between the Mary's pride. 
it vvould be "the first thing on our run for office. Botll tickets possess inn()~
seniors and alumnae. "We are trying to establish a code 
vative and veryfeasible ideas. and both
platform, re-establishing study days." 
Questions regarding fashioning that Saint Mary's stands for, some­
. haw} the potential to accompU,sh, theirWehby and Madden want to have 
leadership style after one famous 
two days. other than Saturday and 
leader was directed to the presidential see WEHBY/page'4
Sunday, for students to study or have see DEBATE I page 4 
• OUT WITH THE OlD•••• 
Popular Government 
station devoted to multicultural lit­
Wi1111ing 70 percent ofthe vote erature and publicizing related events.in '97, Milos/McKeough Additionally, Milos spoke of work­ing with the Office of Admissions as
review tlte acl1ievements that a manifest of campaign goals to help increase enrollment. Milos feels that won the respect ofSMC she and McKeough were a strong presence in admissions activities, By ALLISON KOENIG especially at Fall lJay, where she Saint Mary's News Ediror gave a brief speech on behalf of Saint Mary's and made herself avail­Nikki Milos and Lori McKeough won last year's stu­able for prospective students' con­
dent body president and vice president election with sultation. 70 percent of the votes. McKeough also cited availability as The fact that the duo claimed such a high majority a strong point of her and Milos' of votes seemed to indicate that the support of the incumbency. student body would strengthen their term. "We were very visible on campus," "I think we were definitely supported throughout she stated. Photo courtesy of The Courier/Man Cashore the year by the students. Jt continued past election While the year was filled with Student vice president Lori McKeough (left) and president Nikki Milos (right) faced challenges, accomplished many of their set goals, and generally
day," McKeough said. "It's been one of the greatest many positive changes and success­
excelled in the spotlight of the College's top leadership positions in 1997-98.
things to know that people feel comfortable talking to es, the president and vice president me at any time of the day on any topic." experienced numerous challenges as 
Observer. In it, they equated Saint Mary's women to Heferring to the goals set by the team in their cam­well. 
"parasites" and declared them a detriment to the paign platform, Milos feels confident that their When asked for a description of her most challeng­Notre Dame community. objectives have been or are still in the process of ing experience as the head of Saint Mary's College The letter sparked strong reactions on both cam­
being accomplished. She cited the instatement of an student government. Milos simply replied, "The let­puses, sparking a slew of verbal and written respons­athletics commissioner on the Board of Governance ter." 
es to both The Observer and the authors themselves. as an achieved campaign goal. Notre Dame sophomores Catherine Syner and "It was the most challenging [experience] because Milos also referred to the upcoming implementation Stacey Fuller co-authored the now-infamous letter to of a wall to commemorate leadership and a resource the editor, printed in a September issue of The see GOVERNMENT I page 4 
. 













page 2 • Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
Key issues: Whatffle
CHAIN of COMMAND 
students are talking about 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
Saint Mary's College Student Government Association (SGA),
Saint Mary's News Ediror 
• Denotes official branch leaders that also sit on the Board of 
In the words of Student 
Activities assistant director Ceil 
Governance.

Paulsen, "The format of Saint Mary's student government is definitely unique." 
A few other adjectives to describe the setup of Student Government Association (SGA) might include: intricate, encom­passing, extensive. 
A complete comprehension of the layout of the entire student organization is probably only held by the actual participating government members, if any­one at all. 
Each spring semester, during the flurry of elections, many Saint Mary's students are left in a wake of confusion trying to 
Freshman Class 
figure out which organization 
Board 
represents what interests and 
President • 

how they each fall into the lead­
VICe President 
Secretary

ership puzzle. 
Treasurer

The current Student 
Committee Chairs 
Government Association (SGA) consists of four central boards 
Vice Prelsid~n,J:iNtL:w:~tl$M>
Secretary Treasurer Committee Chairs Senior Class 
President • Vice President Secretary Treasurer Committee Chairs 

which each break down into 
included a treasurer, a secre­to proper administration to on SAB this year included trea­
various committees, councils, 
tary, an athletics commissioner, handle concerns," student body surer, administrative coordina­
and subsections. 
an off-campus commissioner. president Nikki Milos said. tor, movies and munchies 
The Board of Governance 
an elections commissioner, two The Student Academic chairwoman, comedian chair­
(BOG) is the central, unifying 
communications/public rela­Council (SAC), which is headed woman, speaker series coordi­
body of Saint Mary's student 
tions commissioners, a campus by the student body vice-presi­nator, cultural chairwoman,
government. Most of the partici­
clubs commissioner, a spiritual dent and assisted by an admin­two traditional evens co-chairs, 
pants have dual responsibilities 
life commissioner, a Notre istrative secretary, consists of two entertainment co-chairs,
because they lead other SGA 
Dame Senate representative, a 20 representatives from each of and a publicity chair. 
boards. 
NASCCU (National Association the College's academic depart­The Residence Ball 
BOG's executive board con­
of Catholic Colleges and ment.<;. The representatives are Association (IiliA) is.somewhat
sists of the student body presi­
Universities) commissioner and nominated by students within independent of the other boards 
dent, who is elected each year 
two SURV (Spes Unica Resource their department, and depend­in its representation. RHA
by the students; and the student 
and Volunteer center) represen­ing on the department, are actively offers programming
body vice-president, who is 
tatives. either voted on by department and handles issues related to
elected by the students on the 
The student trustee, who is faculty or students with residence life on the Saint 
same ticket as the president 
chosen in a process indepen­declared majors in that depart­Mary's campus. The executive
and serves as the coordinator of 
dent of student government to ment. board of RHA, the president,
the Student Academic Council 
act as a full-fledged member of The Student Activities Board vice president, treasurer and
(SAC). 
the Board of Trustees, also (SAB) is the primary entertain­secretary. are elected as a four­
Members of BOG who serve 
resides on BOG. ment programmer in student some by all residential students. 
on other boards include the 
Amongst its main functions, government. The coordinator Hepresentatives of each of the
Student Activities Board coordi­
BOG has the power to allocate position is available to anyone five hall councils, who are elect­
nator, who is appointed by the 
student" government funds, who wishes to apply, and appli­ed by residents, sit on RHA. Tho
assistant director of Student 
most of which are generated cants are interviewed and ulti­president selects women to
Activities, the Hesidence Hall 
from each student's annual stu­mately chosen by the assistant chair various committees,
Association president and the 
dent activities fee. BOG also director of Student Activities, which include weekend or
four presidents of the individual 
oversees all campus clubs, who also acts as advisor to the week-long event programming,
classes, all of whom are elected 
works as the communications board. or cover various aspects of resi­
by the students in different elec­
forum be.tween different Obtaining a position on the dence life. 
tions. 
boards, clubs and committees, board follows a process similar The separate class boards,
There are 13 other positions 
as well as sponsor various pro­to that of BOG; applicants apply which consist of a president, a 
on BOG, the incumbents of 
gramming and activities. for desired positions and are vice president, a secretary and
which are appointed by the stu­
"BOG provides a voice for all then appointed by the SAB a treasurer, are elected by stu­
dent body president. For the 
students, and routes that voice coordinator. The various duties dents in their respective classes. 
1997-98 academic year, they 
• COMMENTARY 
Students must vote to empower 
Tomorrow's elec-LORI ALLEN tion will generate SainrMary'sEdiror only half of the stu­dent body's votes. While this may seem cynical, it is still a fact. The last several years of election results have portrayed Saint Mary's stu­dents as apathetic. Apparently, we don't care who we should entrust with the responsibility to lead Saint Mary's through another year and pave the road into beyond. If we did, the entire campus would be waiting in line in the dining hall to vote for our next leader. It's not like student government doesn't make it easy enough to cast a vote. I refuse to believe that this campus, full of bright, enlight­ened, and intelligent minds, does not care about its future. 
Do we want to be remembered for watching Days of Our Lives when we could've been doing something to make a difference? Should this be our legacy ­that we continue to have low voter turnout? Sure, it reflects the national norms, but since when does Saint Mary's reflect the norm? We should strive to be anything but ordinary. What does this say about the attitudes of a campus full of women likely to become the nation's next Janet Renos and Sandra Day O'Connors? 
How many of us have complained about Saint Mary's policies in some way? Who has had something bad to say about the way an event was run or a meeting was conducted? If there's anything that many of us have learned to do these last couple of years, it's complain. About anything and everything. Instead of complaining, wouldn't it be a novel idea to actually do something about the problem? 
I have an incredible amount of respect for the women who have the integrity to put themselves on the line and commit to making a difference. The women who stand up with new and innovative ideas, with a passion for doing something, any­thing to make our campus just a little bit better. We should all strive to be like these individuals, not stray from their efforts. 
Granted we can't all be Nikki Milos, Lori McKeough, and Jen Turbiak, but who says we can't try? Next year's ticket may very well spend their time from the day they win the election to the beginning of school next fall researching and mov­ing to act on their platform goals. They may emerge to be a new kind of leader. As we all know, change is growth, but without student support, is it worth it? 
We call ourselves empowered women, yet our voter turnout proves us anything but. On Thursday we have a chance to change this image. How many of us will do it? 
In the end, whoever comes out on top 
see COMMENTS I page 4 
education is the fact that it is a
By COLLEEN McCARTHY women's college. Some students felt
News Writer 

that this is a unique attribute which With the impending election of a must be promoted and emphasized new student body president and vice to increase enrollment. president at Saint Mary's College, "We have to start promoting Saint 
discussing which issues are of the Mary's as a women's college and tho greatest importance to the student importance of what this means," said body is a natural topic of conversa­student Robyn Chmielewski. "This is 
especially important right now at a
tion. The increased need for technology time when some women's colleges is not only part of the platform for are becoming co-ed institutions." Freshman Carolyn Kelley agreed
the Sarah Siefert and Nancy Midden with Chmielewski.
ticket, but also one 

"It's time to start
of concern for stu­

focusing on the
dents at Saint issue of school

Mary's College. 

' IT IS EXTREMELY IMPOR­
pride, and the fact"Technology is a 
TANT FOR SAINT 
that Saint Mary's is
very important 

a women's college
issue here," said MARY'S TO INCREASE is a good place to
sophomore Candi ENROLLMENT WITHOUT start," Kelley said. 
Wilson. "Trying to On the same note,

get the technology DECREASING STANDARDS.' Wilson said, "The
upgraded is key." issue of Saint
Student · Laura SOPHOMORE .l.VNA SANFORD Mary's trying to get
McGinty suggested 

its own identity
that increasing back is important

enrollment could spark a chain reaction ultimately also." resulting in the introduction of more Hand-in-hand with the Saint 
Mary's pride issue is the low atten­
technology on campus. "We need to increase technology. dance at many of the College's ath­
But, in order to do this, the College letic events. has to increase enrollment in order "People need to attend more to make the endowment greater so events on our campus. Saint Mary's 
that technology can be upgraded students will buy Notre Dame foot­here," McGinty said. ball tickets but won't go to a basket­Several other students cited ball game here," Chmielewski said. increasing enrollment as an impor­The tick(,'lt of Katie Webby and tant goal for Saint Mary's; indeed, Knlly Madden mentions re-establish­that issue is targeted by the Siefert ing study days as parr of their plat­
form. Study days, which Notre Dame
and Midden ticket. "It is extremely important for Saint students currently enjoy before 
Mary's to increase enrollment with­beginning final exams, are a popular out decreasing the standards," said issue with many Saint Mary's stu­sophomore Anna Sanford. dents. 
"The study days would definitely
Something that prospective stu­dents weigh heavily when consider­decrease the stress somewhat," Nina 
ing Saint Mary's for undergraduate Riconosciuto said. 
CoNsftTufloNALtL¥" SPEAKING••• 
The job descriptions ofth~;presidential and vice presidentialpositiorJ:s, as defifed by the Saint Marys College Stude~J;t Gqvernment Constitution: 
StudeQt bo~ '.t1.$tudent body v.ice
pres•dent ~· president x ... 
•. '·'"it' 
.--:~r::: ·. --.)~:--~ ( 
Authorities and responsibilities: .{uthorities and responsibilities: The student lwdy president shall be Thl,{$tudent body vice president shall responsible for the effective operation be'' onsible for all areas concern-of the Student Government in · dent academic life. She: Assocfatwn. She: ' 

•'fChairs the Student Academic 
• Shall be the, official representative Co@cil (SAC). ·.· #f{h· · · ofthe student body. •fls responsible for coordinating 
• Chairs the Board of Governance Plolions for the student representa­
Executive Board, the Board of tivlofSAC. Governance (BOG), the Budget e;iServes as a voting member of the Committee of the Student EX:~cutive Board of BOG. the 
Government Association. Ac'ademic Affairs Council, the 
• 
Serves as a voting member on the Academic Standards Committee, the following committees and boards: the Cu(riculum Committee, the BOG Executive Board, the Committee Corffmittee on Education ofthe Board on Student Life of the Board of of Trustees, the Student Affairs Trustees. the Committee on. Student Council and the Student Alumnae Affairs, the Student Affairs.council Committee of the Alumnae Board, and the Student Alumnae Coln.mittee antiBOG. of the Alumnae Board. •:7wvertises all elected representa .. 

• 
Advertises all commissioner posi· tiv~ positions and conducts an elec­tions and accepts applications from tioJI process for student representa­the student body for the Board of 6v!ftfrom the respective departments 


Governance. for; SAC. 
• Supports, promotes and attends •· Presents regular reports to the student government functions. Hoard ofGovernance. 
•Supports. promotes and attends :-;tudent government functions. 
-










Wednesday, January 28, 1998 • page 3 

Sarah 
SIEFERT 
For student body president 

Campaign Slogan: I can see a new horizon underneath the blazing sky 
Biggest contribution to student government: Siefert served as BOG communications commissioner last year and helped imple­
ment a BOG newsletter that has increased communications between student government and the student body. 
Top three platform goals: 
TECHNOLOGY. They want to increase awareness of technological improvements on campus and start a newsletter to 
update students about access sites. They stress incorporating the use of more technology in the classroom. 
ADMISSIONS. Want to work with the Admissions Office to help increase enrollment. They would create an Admissions 
Commissioner Position to act as a liaison between VISA, BOG, and Admissions Office. 
ALUMNAE. Want to initiate strong and continuous connection between seniors and recent alumnae. They plan on organiz­
ing dinners and get-togethers with alumnae and a job shadowing program in which students would work and consult with alum­
nae in professions they are interested in. 
Repeated Quote: "Our enthusiasm is contagious." 
Most impressive qualities: They presented themselves well with plentiful amounts of motivation and enthusiasm. 
Biggest worry about them if elected: Midden will have to balance the junior sequence work load and Student Academic 
Council duties. They seem to make a good team, but many times they interrupt one another when speaking. 
If they were not elected, they think it would be because: "We may not have as much experience in student government or we 
have been talking to the wrong students in putting together our platform," said Midden. 
Say their greatest quality is: "Our enthusiasm is contagious and the goals we have set will be a positive change." 
Our favorite ideas: Job shadowing with alumnae; newsletter to parents to keep them up to date of campus events and happen­
ings; club for varsity athletes. 
Good luck: Increasing admissions during their term. 
. Notable quote: "We want to help connect the Saint Mary's women of today with the Saint Mary's women of yesterday. We 
warit to promote ou'r rich history through our connections with the sisters of the Holy Cross," said Midden. 
Final thoughts: "We feel we have a strong platform and have done our homework and talked to students and administrators. 
We feel we are not making empty promises," said Siefert. 
Katie 


EHBY 
For student body president 
-
Kell 

MAD 
For vice president ­
Campaign slogan: Pioneering change for the Saint Mary's College community. 
Biggest contribution to student government: Webby spearheaded an event-packed SAB calendar this year. She has a lot of 
experience under her belt serving as class president her freshman and sophomore years. 
Top three platform goals: 
STUDY DAYS: Heinstate study days into the last week of classes during each semester period, similar to that of neighboring 
University of Notre Dame. 
CAREER AND COUNSELING COMMISSIONER: Re-create a commissioner position to act as the link between the students and 
the Career and Counseling Department in order to increase communications of students' needs. Want to make students more 
aware of the services in order to make students feel more "linked" with the office. 
BLESSING OF THE CLASS RING: A spiritual ceremony honoring the future graduates of Saint Mary's College would be held 
at the beginning of the senior year. "It would be a ceremony for the seniors to come together at the beginning of the senior year 
for one last time to honor them," Webby said. 
Repeated quote: "We're very approachable." 
Most impressive qualities: These women have networked. They have talked to every relevant administrator, organization and 
staff member about their ideas and seem to have received positive feedback on their platform. 
Biggest worry about them if elected: Webby admitted she can be an impatient leader, but Madden's calm approach should 
help keep Webby in check. 
Say their greatest quality is: Their reputation with the student body. "We are very approachable and enjoy talking with stu­
dents," Madden. 
Our favorite ideas: Career and Counseling Commissioner to link students' needs with the Career Center; establishing a code of 
values based on the Saint Mary's Mission Statement to be posted in each building; the possibility of re-establishing study days. 
Good luck: Effectively revamping the on-campus mailbox system for off-campus students. Efforts by government leaders to 
revamp the system over the last fnw years have failed. 
Notable quote: "We think the points on our platform are feasible, " said Wehby. "Our platform has positive points that can ben­
efit the Saint Mary's community and allow them to show the pride they have for Saint Mary's." 
Why we should be impressed: "We complement each other and work very well together, which will provide a good balance for 
the goals we hope to accomplish," said Madden. 
Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
page4 The Observer Special Supplement • SAINT MARY'S ELECTIONS 
Government 
continued from page 1 

it was a very personal matter, and it was a very controversial matter to deal with," Milos said. 
Conversely, McKeough cites the reaction of the Saint Mary's students to the letter as one of her proudest memories, culminat­ing in Saint Mary's Pride Day. 
"Running out af ribbons in less than an hour ... that made me proud," McKeough said of the white ribbons passed out to stu­dents and faculty to show their support of the College. 
A frustration that McKeough expressed revolved around the stagnant progress of the Alliance. A controversial topic of years past, the establishment and recognition of a student organization dedicated to issues of sexuality was deferred by College presi­dent emeritus William Hickey last year and questioning women. She said she pre­be respected by the overall community. ferred to delay a decision until such time "I anticipate that no matter what the as she could better gauge the campus cli­decision is, the SMC community will 
mate regarding the issue. 
''I'm very glad that the student body has respect­ed Eldred's request to review the Alliance," Milos said of the post­ponement. "Round tables and forums have been held [and] professors and deans have opened their doors to hear and discuss issues with students." 
McKeough took a differ­ent view. "It was one of the biggest frustrations I felt 

'I'M PROUD OF HOW WELL STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS WORKING WITH THE ADMINISTRATION. OUR COLLABQ­RATION HAS BEEN GREAT THIS YEAR.' 
1997-98 STUDENT BODY "'""r" 

this year. I know how much time it takes to research sensitive issues such as this one, because Board of Governance took several weeks before recognizing the Alliance," she said. 


address the issue of sexuality in a mature, respectful and proper manner," she said. 
Overall, Milos said that she is proud of the way the year has gone. 
''I'm proud of how well student govern­
' RUNNING OUT OF RIBBONS IN LESS THAN AN HOUR ••• THAT MADE ME PROUD." 
LORI lV/cKEOUGll 1997-98 STUDt'NT BODY VICE PRESIDENT 
"However,  it  only  ment is working with the administration,"  
takes so much time to  she said. "Our collaboration has been  
recognize  a  huge  great this year."  
streak of homophobia  As for  a  future direction for SGA, both  
that  exists  on  this  women have conceptualized hopes for the  
campus," McKeough  ongoing plights of the students and their  
concluded.  work in the organization.  
Said Milos, "I think  ''I'd like to continue to sec students enjoy  
she  wants  to  make  what they do through student government.  
sure that the decision  One of the best parts of this year has been  
is tailored especially  seeing everyone have fun," she stated.  
for SMC. I think she'll  "The other thing I hope would continue  
form-fit  a  group  to  is  ...  professors viewing students as peers  
address the issues on  and advisors, and everyone working  
campus."  together for accomplishments," Milos  

and was extended because of the inaugu­ration of the new president, Marilou Eldred. 
When the year commenced, Eldred announced that she was extending the non-status of the Alliance, the Saint Mary's group comprised of gay, straight, bisexual 
"Students look to the administration for a precedent," McKeough said. "If the administration does not change, the stu­dents won't either." 
Eldred's decision is due before the end of the academic year. Milos believes that, whatever the promised resolution, it will added. 
McKeough also indicated a hope for con­tinued collaboration. "I would like to have everybody be more aware of what each other is doing ... there are so many good things going on. I hate to see it get redun­dant." 
Discussing the issues at hand ... 

( 
continued from page 1 

thing that we are proud of. It would be like our per­sonal integrity; we represent and respect others rights, we respect others' property," said Wehby. "Mainly a continuation of our mission statement," commented Madden. 
Both tickets were asked what idea they had devel­oped and implemented in their current position that they were proud of. "I am particularly proud of the installment of the calendars," Siefert said. 
"I admire any of the students who put themselves on the line. It's a big risk. I wish them both luck," director of Student Activities Georgeanna Hosenbush said. 
The debate took place in Haggar Parlor with about 40 students in attendance. 
"The debate went very well. Both tickets showed that they put a lot into the campaign," said senior class president Lisa Coury. 
"I thought both tickets had a great stand on their issues," said Becky Oliva. 
"I don't envy them. Last year, I was nervous, but it was a lot of fun. Both tickets looked good," said cur­rent vice president Lori McKeough. 
"I was happy how many people came. I believe it is important to be informed. I think it is important for the candidates to think on their feet and address issues they hadn't thought of previously," said Horvath. 

Katie W~hby (above left) replies to inquiries from students (above). ~ancy M1dden and Sarah Siefert (below) listen attentively to the discus­ston. 

Webby 
continued from page 1 

platform goals. But one team 
made us feel the future of Saint 
Mary's will stand by the College 
statement of "honoring tradition 
and pioneering change." 

Katie Wehby and Kelly 
Madden are more than just two 
students looking to hold the most 
powerful student positions on 
campus. They have done their 
homework and they not only 
know what they are in for, but 
their limitations as well. 

The Webby/Madden ticket pos­
sesses more realistic campaign 
goals that could be accomplished 
within their term or shortly 
thereafter. Wehby and Madden 
are experienced Saint Mary's 
students. 

Wehby is a confident student 
government leader who has 
served as freshman and sopho­
more class president and cur­
rently as Student Activities 
Board president. She admitted 
without hesitation that her 
greatest weakness is her impa­
tience with getting a specific job 
done, but knows very well that 
this is where her running mate 
Madden fits in. 

Madden is realistic and sincere and has continually stressed how important it is to work as a team. She kept emphasizing the fact that she is a "people per­son," but we didn't need to hear that. We already knew. We are worried about Madden filling current vice president Lori McKeough's shoes as student academic counselor chair­woman, and strongly recom­mend that she shadow McKeough if elected. 
What is so appealing about the Webby/Madden ticket is that they complement each other. Some of their campaign goals include re-establishing study 
days, a feat they deem reason­able in the next year, and rein­stating a career and counseling commissioner position which would act as a link betwefm the student<> and the Counseling and Career Development Center. 
With Webby's determination and Madden's compassion, they should have no trouble accom­plishing all of their campaign goals. 
The Sarah Siefert and Nancy Midden ticket was also impres­sive; these two women are smart and they present themselves well. Their platform goals are timely; however, they seem more of a reflection of what is already under way or in the process of getting started. 
For example, they stress the technological advances on cam­pus as a major issue, but the campus-wide wiring is almost complete, and we wonder how big of a concern this is for fellow students. Their Student Government Association Web page is a good idea, but their Admissions Oflice commissioner doesn't seem like it would differ much from VISA. 
Siefert is enthusiastic and pos­sesses a goal-driven leadership style. She has been around the block and knows how to get things done, but we feel that she lacks original ideas. 
Midden holds experience as sophomore class president and is anxious to furthf~r her eareer in student government. She claims that her future status as a junior will not interfere with her ability to serve as an effective vice president and SAC chair­woman, but we have a hard time believing this. Midden has yet to 
face some of the challenges with 
Even the ones who dared not vote. In ing do? 
which students may present her. 
essence, the women we elect will repre­These new leaders have big shoes to
Comments 

The Observer endorses 
sent the student voice. They will stand for fill, and they're making a good effort so Wehby!Madden in the 1998-99 
continued from page 2 our community. far. Who knows, at this time next year, Saint Mary's student govern­I encourage all of you to think about they may even be mentioned in the same 
ment elections. We encourageon in the polls, the Saint Mary's commu­who you want to represent you. sentence as Milos, McKeough, and you to vote.
nity will be confident and supportive. 
In six months, what will your complain-Turbiak. 



