Sweetq)reams 
Money or Justice? 


Tuesday
Were you chased by a monster or wooed by a Which does Notre Dame really favor in its sweatshop 

tall, handsome stranger last nigh c in your
Lldreams? Fin<l out what it all means. 

labor Code of Conduct? 
DECEMBER 1, 
(8) 0 Scene• 10-11 

Viewpoint• 8 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 59 WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 

Bradley ends lecture term with tax policy talk 

By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
A worldwide consensus favoring American-style macroeconomic and tax policies should not dull our nation's commitnumt to a stable, equitable eccinomy buoyed by a dedication to education, according to former U.S. Senator Bill Bradley. 
Bradley concluded his semester­long visiting professorship at Notre Dame with a lecture on economic and tax policy last night in the College of Business Administration's Jordan Auditorium. Following the lecture, Bradley conducted the last session of his class "Public Policy and Leadership," concluding his tenure as visiting professor of public affairs. 
"I want to express my apprecia­tion to Notre Dame for allowing me to be here. This is an extraordi­nary institution," Bradley said. 
Fiscal prudence, open markets, free flow of capital, low taxes, an investment in education and an investment in basic research are the steps America must take to ensure a strong economy, Bradley told his audience. These goals are 

¦ STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
SAB showcases world traditions of Christmas 
By RUTH SNELL 
New, Wrir,·r 
Christmas traditions l'rom Africa tu Mexico \Vl'l'!' brnught togdhPr at Saint Mary's rnlnbrn­lion of Christmas Around tlw World on Monday. 
"I wanted to do som!'thing lo make different rulturns come logi1tlwr and interact," said Tysus .Jackson, tlm Stud1•nt Activities Board cultural chairw111nan. 
Christmas spemPd a logical choice because of' its prnvalenni in Anwrican culture, according to Tysus. Dilfon•nliating betwrnm Am,wican and tra­ditional cultures proved challenging for many sincfl liir many Americans, however, family lrndi­lions an• a ronglonwration of' ditfornnt cultures. 
Studonts statiorwd al booths lwlpcd explain Hussian, Polish. Irish. Italian, Moxican and /d'riran-Am1•rican traclil.i1>11s. 
In Southnrn Italy, for inslanc1\ pe()ph1 make Hlahoratn Nativity scenl's. "It's mon~ likn II whole city," profossor Nancy ffi\ntuono ol' lhn Italian Club said. 
The Polish primarily c<'lohratc Christmas with a "wigilia," or vigil. i\rc:ording lo Carolyn Sarnecki at thn l'olish hooth, tlrn wigilia is a 12-course meatless 1111ml. with narh dish served separatuly and oatm1 slowly. Tlw 12 dishns rnprnsent the 12 clisl'iplcs, and l'amily members fast 24 hours lml'oro «iating tlw wigilia. An extra place is also s1it al llw table in casn any nxtra visitors appear. 
Simplidty charact11riws the Hussian culcbra­tion of Christmas, Claim Burke explained. Gifts are ollnn hommnadn and among the most com­111011 gif'ts ani trnditional nesting dolls. 
Tlw gif'ts am thm1 dPliVl'red by the "babushka," or grandmothnr, thn Hussian equivalent ol' Santa Claus. 
see CULTURE / page 4 


widPly agrPed upon in the currf\nt alternativeless global economy dominated by tlw paradigm ol' cap­italism. 
Of these varied policy targets, nd ucation was tlrn one Bradley most mnphasized as a viabln solu­tion to economic troubles. 
"America has to look at educa­tion as an economic and develop­ment. issue. Talent will detfmnirrn the success of our futurn. Elementary and secondary educa­tion deserves our att1rntion," Im said. "We can't rest on who we were. We have to have an idea of where we want to be, and we havn to have an education system that responds to that idea." 
Bradley explained that a commit­ment to all levels of' education in America will pay the long-tnrm economic result of' pushing the U.S. to global competitiveness, techno­logical growth and continued eco­nomic prosperity. This desire for a long-term commitment coexists with a set of more immediate and agreed-upon policy steps for mod­ern economies. 
"By and large, there is a consen­
see BRADLEY/ page 4 
Computer users fight 
•

viruses 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Writer 
Heports of the Clll and Laroux computer viruses are dying down, according to Denise Mosnr-, managm· of Technical Support-Us1w Servic11s at the Office ol' Information Technologies IOITJ. 
The two viruses ani still wreaking havoc on campus, said Moser, but their incidences am diminishing. 
The CIII virus, said Moser, is a "particularly nasty" virus, becausn it overrides the computnr's hard drivn. causing everything on t.hn computer -saved and not saved -to be lost. 
Tim Cll I also has a pain load datn on the 26th of' any month, which means that it' a comput11r has the virus, and is opnratod on the 2(ith. the virus will do damage. 
Thn Laroux virus has bnnn excep­tionally hazardous for business majors because it damages comput­ers that use the Excel program for Windows. Tlrn virus dons not causo data loss or damag11, said Mosor, but rather will prnv1rnt. anyone l'rom opening spreadsheets while using the ExcPI program. 
The OIT has received nearly 170 virus-related phone calls in the past two weeks, according to Moser. 
"(The viruses] are nothing to gel panicked over," said Katie Christman. a Hesident Comput(lr Consultant IHCCI in McGlinn Hall. 
According to Christman, hall HCCs 
see VIRUS / page 4 
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Pilgrims vs. 


Pay-Per-View-
Thanksgiving -a time for giving thanks for all the blessings which we have received during the year by sharing a, large meal with our family and spending time with those that 
we love, right'? Not in  
my house.  Mike Connolly  
In my house  Sports Writer  
Thanksgiving is a non­ 

stop sports fest that pauses only at halftime 
of an NFL game to scarfdown turkey and 
dressing before returning to the couch for 
more football. 
Somfl may consider this a sacrilege and scold us for missing the spirit of Thanksgiving symbolized by the Pilgrims at that first Thanksgiving so very long ago. 
But why do we honor the Pilgrims? These were people that spent their entire lives try­ing to stop an entire nation from having fun. They advanced a political agenda of banning dancing and other leisure activities, and then wondered why nobody liked them. 
Some may say that they were the victims of religious intolerence by the people of England and were forced to flee their homeland to a dangerous land across a deadly ocean. 
Upon reaching this land and surviving the dangerous winter, they finally created a set­tlement with the help of thfl Nativfl Americans. Following their first harvest, they gave thanks to God and the Native Americans by holding a feast of thanks giving. From this first feast, our tradition of Thanksgiving developed. 
But then, how did the Pilgrims repay the kindness of the Native Americans? By taking their lands and burning their villages. Aren't these same poor Pilgrims that suffered from religious intolerance in England guilty of the same religious intolerence once they reached America? 
So go ahead, honor the witch-burning, Native American killing, intolerant Pilgrims. 
I'll honor Barry Sanders and Randy Moss. True, Barry Sanders has fathered illegiti­mate children, and Randy Moss is a thug, but at least no one pretends that they are angels. 
So, I will eat my turkey with my family and stuff myself with stuffing, but then I will spend the rest of the weekend in a sports­lover's paradise. 
Thanksgiving weekend means the best col­lege football rivalries come out. It means Mississippi-Mississippi St., Georgia-Georgia Tech, Arizona-Arizona St.. 
Thanksgiving weekend means Ricky Williams breaking the all-time NCAA rushing record during yet another classic Texas­Texas A&M game. 
And, of course, the most highly anticipated game of the weekend saw our Fightin' Irish fall short against the Men of Troy. 
Still you may be saying that I am too hard on Pilgrims. Even if they were intolerant, ignorant killers, they still suffered during that first winter. 
But I also suffered this weekend during my sports-fest. I suffered through Duke's inabili­ty to miss from any where on the floor during the Irish loss to the Bluedevils. I suffered through Bob "Yes, I do hate Notre Dame and I am not afraid to show it" Griese and Keith "Overly-dramatic" Jackson's horrendous commentary during the USC game. 
I suffered through the refs blowing a coin toss in the Steelers' game. l mean, seriously, how do you blow a coin toss? 
So you can keep your Pilgrims, Indians, Miles Standish and all the junk that goes with it. I'll takfl Jerome Betis. the Great Alaskan Shootout and college football any day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Michelle Krupa Sarah Dylag Finn Pressly Matthew Turner 
Graphics Scorr Hardy

Sports 
Production 
Mike Connolly 
Kerry Smith 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Eddie Llull 
Monica Garza 
The Observer (USPS 599 2"4000) i, published Monday through Friday cxce-pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
the Associarcd Press. All reproduction righg arc reserved. 

Tuesday, December 1, 1998
The Observer• INSIDE 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Graduate employee union plans to begin strike today 
Confirming weeks of rumors antl 
Furthermore, Atkinson stressed speculations, the graduate student that it was the university's position union at UCLA announced Sunday that allowing TAs to bargain collec­that a strike would indeed begin on tively could "disrupt the collegial Tuesday of this week. relationships between students and 
The Student Association of faculty that are so critical in gradu­Graduate Employees (SAGE), in con­ate work." junction with similar unions at seven SAGE organizers had kept. the st.art. other UC campuses, is hoping that date of the strike somflwhat secret this year's strike, the first since 1996, until now, largflly bemuse they will be more disruptive than past reared that university administrators strikes. would hire rnplacement workers to 
continued to reiterate their position
And it just may be. Through their take the place of striking T As. 
that teaching assistants (TAs) should
affiliation with the United Auto Administrators would not say 
not be considered employees because
Workers (UAW). SAGE has securerl whether replacement workers were strike benefits -payments to strik­serving as a teaching assistant is an option being considered. 
integral to their educational experi­
ing workers to help them financially "I would prefer nut to start listing 
ence.

-meaning that this strike could last things that we will not do," said 
a very long time. "We believe that TAs are principal­Chancellor Albert Carnesale. ly students rather than employees,
"The duration of the strike will cer­University officials have said that tainly be longer than the strikes that switching to multiple-chnicn final
and thus are not eligible for collective bargaining," said UC president
we've tried before," said Connie exams is being considered as an Razza, an organizer for SAGE. Richard Atkinson in a letter circulat­option to alleviate extra work on pro­Meanwhile, UC administrators have ed last Monday. fessors as a result of the strike. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of CAUfORNIA " BERl<ELEY  ¦ UNIVERSITY OF TEX.AS  
Atom identified with giant light bulb  Course packets to be published online  
BERKELEY, C:alif.  AUSTIN, Texas  
Thanks to a giant light bulb with a $1.2 million annual  Each semester students dish out hundreds of dollars for  
electric bill sitting in UC Berkeley's backyard, researchers  books, and more on top of that for required course packets.  
have successfully tested a promising development in solid  But Alan Blake, a UT finance senior, is collaborating with  
materials that, among its other uses, may allow scientists  three other students from Yale University and the  
to build faster, more powerful computer technologies.  University of Maryland to put course packets required by  
Researchers at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory  instructors on the Web. Intended to give students an option  
have tested a method to directly identify not only a specific  to save money, students using the service would no longer  
atom in a solid, but also the atoms around it. The tech­ have to pay for course packets required in many classes.  
nique, called MARPE -Multi-Atom Resonant Photo  "Many times course packets are very large, very expensive,  
Emission ­is the first to be developed by researchers. The  and it's just a little more convenient and certainly a lot  
technique was developed using LBNL's Advanced Light  cheaper to view them online," said BJake, who co-founded  
Source, the giant light bulb that is housed in the domed  Genesis Technologies, the company developing the Web  
structure visible from UC Berkeley's campus. "This is one  site. For a one-time account setup fee of $10 ­in addition  
of those rare occasions where you go after something and  to predetermined copyright fees ­students would be able  
it turns out much better than you expected," says Charles  to view course packets online by logging on to  
Fadley, a physicist in LBNL's Materials Sciences Division  http://www.coursepackets.com instead of having to pur­ 
who led the research.  chase them.  
¦ PENN STATE UNIVERSITY  ¦ NORTH CAROLINA STATE  
Point system holds clubs accountable  Students propose clause alteration  
STATE COLLEGE, Penn.  RALEIGH, N.C.  
Student organizations are being held more account­ A proposal is currently moving through student govern­ 
able for their actions this semester due to a new point  ment that would alter the University's current non-dis­ 
system similar to the method used with driver's licenses.  crimination policy and possibly affect campus attitudes  
Groups can receive points for infractions such as the  towards gays, lesbians and bisexuals. The current word­ 
unauthorized use of rooms or equipment, the use of  ing of the University's non-discrimination policy, which is  
allocated funds in ways not intended and failure to  printed in various University materials such as the  
attend mandatory officer training sessions. If the orga­ Application for Admission and the College Handbook, does  
nization accrues a certain amount of points, the conse­ not allow for discrimination based on disability, gender,  
quences could be restricted funding or a mandated inac­ race, religion, age, creed or national origin. A draft of  
tive period of either 15 weeks or a year. The point sys­ Resolution 8, authored by Scott Starin, a former Student  
tem policy was set down and is being enforced by the  Senate member, and Student Senate President Alexis Mei,  
Joint Office Initiative to Network committee, a collabo­ calls for a clause to be added to the current policy ensur­ 
rative effort of the Undergraduate Student Government  ing that people can't be discriminated against because of  
Supreme Court and the Office of Student Unions and  their sexual orientation. According to Mei, this issue has  
Activities. But some students would not like to see the  been in discussion for several years. "I co-wrote this bill  
administration involved at all with the disciplining of  with Scott Starin last year. There had been one or two  

student groups. 
¦ Sourn BENO WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~.,,...........-..... 
("-.....,~-


Tuesdry .. Wedn~sday~ 61 
~
Thur~day ~ Friday d:3.. 
.•·· .) 


Satqtday r'\4 
t....s-.s-···"· "1.,.,·~...1_/; ,,,_,,,. 
~,,r'l-A&~~ i) ~ cU

~--",,'.,~..~:•. :. -:-.•:•.•:--=---=--=­
Showers T-storms· Rain Fl~,.;.ies S~o-~ Jee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via AssocJa/ed Prass GraphicsNet 
other resolutions proposed even before that," Mei said. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 1. 
~ 
~ 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Prnau,.: 
® © D C'.J c:::J C:I IIZl . 

High Lew Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Wa Associated Press  
Atlanta  69  52  Houston  79  61  Philadelphia 63  50  
Baltimore  63  47  Los Angeles 62  54  St. Louis  63  44  
Boston  59  48  New York  61  49  Seattle  45  40  
Chicago  58  37  Palm Beach 81  70  Tulsa  66  43  



Tuesday, December 1, 1998 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
--~--~ 
~------------­

Moriarty portrays human rights plight in exhibit 
By RUTH SNELL he went to tho local Catholic under U.S. advisement that ence. Salvadoran subjects behind a telephonn polo. News Wrir,·, diocese wlrnre two nuns in a they "get rid ol' tlrn civilian were particularly responsiv11. The situation in El Salvador jeep took him from a wAalthy population and then the guer­"Some people asked me why since the ond of thn civil war 
A rrnw campus photo exhibit neighborhood near the rillas won't have any support­I was taking pictures, and I has changBd, but not captures the rnagnitud(l of Arnn r i can~-----~ 
ers," according to Moriarty. told them I was telling a improved, according to human rights violalions in El School to a While visiting the refugee story,'' Moriarty said. "If' Moriarty. Salvaclor both during and rnfugce camp camp, Moriarty received an they'd tell me their story I "The rate of violent death in si11cn its civil war. lo celebrate education in foreign policy. promised to tell it to others. El Salvador is higher than it 
Sll\Vll Moriarty, curator of tho holiday. During tho war. hn had a press And I don't think I was ever was at the worst point of the photography at the Snitc "[It wasl a credential and enjoyed the once refused." civil war," he said. "(Butf, tlrn Museum, spoke last Monday at good way to freedom to travel and photo­In exhibiting his work from violence is all r.rimo-related, tlw opnning rPcept.ion f'or his s p n n d graph events such as public El Salvador, Moriarty did his not political." black and while photography Christmas, demonstrations. He could also best to keep that promise. Gangs, many with members exhibit "Womun in El see iII g tlrn Moriarty received photograph Some of the Salvadoran sto­deported back to El Salvador Salvador: Landscape uf' Poacn, two onds of Salvadorans in their homos. ries are gruesome. Tita, one of' from California, have taken Landscape of'War." Lhe spuctrum," Moriarty said. "One of the reasons I kept Moriarty's subjects, worked over the country, and nxisting 
Moriarty first travnlml lo El Those ref'ugoes were families going back was I found that I against the government's vio­authorities cannot not cope Salvador in 1985. Alorrn in a of guerrillas f'leeing from the had a lot to learn," he said. lence, and is one of the many with the situation. Fueled by foreign country at Christmas, govornmnnt that worked /\iding Moriarty's learning who disappeared. She, like rnadily availabln weapons ­
Take the 


less-traveled 
Give us one year. 
Give yourself the chance. 


road 

For more information on the Holy Cross one-year 
Candidate Program conwct 
Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 46556
Fr. Jim King, c.sc (219) 631-6385 


http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL'<!>'
h Bill Wm:k,r.sc 

experience was a degree of countless others, was arrested, many that the U.S. paid for 
immunity from the region's interrogated under torture, during the war -the gangs 
rampant violence. probably raped, murdered and now run rampant, stnaling "!The.I right-wing military her body disposed of so that it paychecks on payday and com­wasn't interested in killing will never be found, according mitting highway robbery. Americans because that's to Moriarty. "It's a messy situation, but where their money came The exhibition includes a feeding it all at the bottom is from," Moriarty explained. picture of Tita leaving work, poverty, and thero's not a lot Bespect for the subjects he and Moriarty also has a photo of easy solutions for this," 
photographed also aided his of Tita at a march being Moriarty said. 
work, Moriarty told the audi-watched by a policeman hiding Feeling guilty about being white and American, Moriarty once asked an old Salvadoran if he should have stayed homo and sent money inst11ad. 
"Sometimes worse than poverty is thinking that nobody cares. The fact that you comn all the way down horo tells us that someone thinks about us," the Salvadoran rnspondncl, Im said. 
The nxhibit will be in LnMans llall at Saint Mary's until Doc. 11. and is sponsornd by the Justice Education Program, tho Mornau Gallerins, Campus Ministry, tho Human Hights Colt, Multicultural Affairs Ofl'icn, Holigious Studies Dnpartnrnnt and SURV. 


The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
Is delighted to announce its courses for Spring 1999 
IRST 102:01 Beginning Irish II MWF 9:30-10:25 Peter McQuillan IRST 301:01 The Irish in Their Own Words MWF 11 :45-12:35 Peter McQuillan IRST 320:01 Independent Ireland TH 11:00-12: 15 Margaret O'Callaghan IRST 343:01 European Politics & Institutions TH 2:00-3: 15 Andrew Gould IRST 409:01 Dublin: The Restoration City/Stage MW 11:45-1:00 Patrick Tuite IRST 420:01 The Politics of Cultural Identities TH 2:00-3: 15 Margaret O'Callaghan IRST 470:01 Irish Lit. and Society 1889-1939 TH 12:30-1:45 John Kelly 
. ..... _ IRST 4710:01 .Staging a Re..volution _____ . .TH-2:0Q-3:15 .-·-·.Susan Harris ... --·----­IRST 502:01 Graduate Beginning Irish II MWF 9:30-10:25 Peter McQuillan IRST 577:01 Yeats and His Contexts H 6:30-9:00 p.m. John Kelly 
For information about the Irish Area Studies Program please contact The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
or visit the Undergraduate Studies Office 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

page4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December I, 1998 
Mary and Joseph wander 
¦ SECURITY BEAT. the town, knocking on

Culture Virus 
doors and requesting
Fri., Nov. 27 
1:3s.·•p,m.Afi~~~rH~!t•r~~iq~ continued from page 1 shelter. continued from page l 
Kwanzaa is a holiday
reported the theft of his bike.ii 
Typically, the most celebrated uniquely in were given computer disks programmed to
from outside the North Dining 
pious Russians are the America by African­detect viruses in order to rid them from stu­
Hall. His bik1fwas not locked at 
ones who celebrate the Americans. According to dents' computers. She also added that one 
the time of the theft. 
traditional orthodox Jackson, it started in the way the viruses are spread is through contin­
6:45 p.m. Security transported a 
Illinois.re ofspeeding on 
Christmas, which falls two 1950s to give African­uous file downloading on the University's net­
Lewis Hall resident to St. Joseph 
weeks after the Roman Americans a tie to African work neighborhood. 
Medical Center for treatment of 
Catholic Christmas. culture. Kwanzaa lasts Christman, who has gotten few reports of 
a sports injuiy. 
In Mexico, Christmas from Dec. 26 to Jan. 1, virus problems in McGlinn, said it would be 
7:21 p'.m. A Ccl.vanaugh Hall res­1Q:55· arrk§.AAurity•tnmsported 
traditions tend to focus on and highlights a different best for students not to operate their comput­
ident was transported by a Pan ·· · residentto St. 
the infant Jesus, accord-principle each day of the ers on the 26th as a precautionary m1msure. 
ing to Marie Cruza · week. The principles "!Computer viruses] always tend to be lloat­Segura. Traditionally, gifts include collective work ing around," said Moser, adding that the sel­are given from Jesus, not and responsibility, cooper· dom occur on the same large scale as the CII I 
tion........ 'WII 
from a secular figure, ative economics, purposfl, and Laroux. 
s:oo p.rn, AFis6her 
such as Santa Claus. creativity, faith and unity. Students can prevent computer virus infec­
Resident reported the 
In the week before "It puts focus away from tion by installing anti-virus software, said Christmas, Mexicans cele-from commercialization Moser, who encourages students to update emergency lenders such as the brate "posadas". back into the family," the software on a regular basis to avoid new 
IMF. Townspeople dressed as Jackson said. viruses.


Bradley 
Equity, efficiency and sim­plicity should be the goals of
continued from page 1 
any tax system, Bradley sus on the general policies to explained. In his consideration take for prosperity," the 18-of tax policy, he identified year Senate veteran said. these three qualities as goals 
The acronym TINA -There policy-makers should remain ls No mindful of 




KRAMER TIMES 
when assem­bling income 

Alternative ­
Volume 1 Issue 1 NOVEMBER 1998 
defines th is '~ERICA HAS TO LOOK 
consensus, tax legislation. 
B r a d I e y T EDUCATION AS AN Drawing explained, from his con­
ECONOMIC AND DEVELOP~
and repre­gressional sents one of MENT ISSUE. TALENT WILL experiences 
*Domus Properties has two, five, six and 
four current shepherding
DETERMINE THE SUCCESS OF 
the 1986 Tax 

nine bedroom student housing available 
characteris­
OUR FUTURE. ELEMENTARY Reform Act,
tics of the U.S. economy. Bradley looked 
*Student neighborhoods close to campus
AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 
Hap id and at several DESERVES OUR ATTENTION,' angles of tax 
*Security systems provided 
profound 
change, policy. u n e v e n He explained 
*Well maintained homes 
BILL BRADLEY
growth and that he does FOi/MER U.S. SENATOR not support 
*Maintenance staff on call
macroeco­nomic pros-efficient flat 
perity also characterize taxes because they are not America, he said. equitable enough for low "By any measure of the income households. On the 
Available for the 1999/2000 school year
economy (using] the way econ­other hand, Bradley strongly omists measure the economy, opposes creating too many we are at very good limes," exemptions and loopholes in 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or
Bradley said. "Economies the tax code. must play by capitalism ... and "The best tax system is the 
(219} 674-2571 or (219} 233-4509 
we have growth unevenly lowest possible rate for the shared." greatest number of people, 
These sometimes-global and you do that by closing characteristics create a chal­loopholes," Bradley said. lenge for policy makers, Bradley explained. The pres­

allenge Yours~ 
ence of wide-open internation­al capital markets makes eco­
needs men and wome 

nomic policy difficult becausfl 
e Boston area.
foreign investors can invest, change currencies and sud­sand talents while <level denly exit a nation's economy 
ing offers opportunity fo 
with great speed. 
Bradley outlined four ·d, and a liveable stipen options to deal with these volatilities. Among them were 
le Sisters of the Assump 
capital controls, totally nexi­ble "floating" currencies and ntact: Volunteer Coordina 214 E.30th St. · New York, NY. 10016 (212) 889-4310 email: littlesrs@aol.com 
Classes are starting nowl 
Call today to reserve your seat. 
Sign up now for January MCAT classes! 
John M~ Marshall's, Inc~ 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18kairat Yellow Gold & Platinum~ 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler/ Gemologist/ Mineralogist 

~ 
Int feltder 

1-800-KAP-TEST ~ 
www.kaplan.com 
'MCAT is a registered lrademar1< of Iha Association of American Medical Colleges. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 


Tuesday, December l, 1998 C0MPJLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS Iraq complies with U.N. 
NEW YORK 
Chinf lJ.N. weapons inspnctor Richard Butler noted "with satisfaction" in a letter rohrnscd Monday that Iraq was ready to coopnrate in resolving several outstanding issues. llo said the U.N. Special Commissi()n, or UNSCOM. will deploy teams to help clear up questions about Iraq's clrnmical weapons and missile programs. Bullnr must inform the Security Council whnther Iraq has resumed full cooperation with l/NSCOM lrnfure the council can launch a comprehensive review or Baghdad's compliance with council resolu­tions. The lnu1i government is hoping the r1ivinw will lead to a qttick lifting of sanc­tions, but thn united Stains insists there is no link "I expect to b11 in a position to for­mulatn a rnport in two or thrne weeks time 011 wlwtlwr or not lraf! has returned lo full c<mrwrnlion," Butler said in tlrn letter. 
India's BJP gains support 
NEW DEi.iiI 
D1is pi tP a rl\ bu ke a L pol Iing boo lhs. India's governing party won a vote of" rn111iw1H! support from coalition allies Monday. Prime Ministnr Alai Bihari Vajpayce won the boost he sought at a nwcting or the 19 parties in his coalition. which artirmed their "unequivocal commit­nwnl" to his government. In the voting, the ruling Bharaliya Janata Party, or RIP, lost power to the main opposition Congress party in a couple of key states. The results. announced over the weekend, do not directly affect Vajpayee's coalition. But the voting was seen as a rebuff for the Hindu nationalist party that came to power eight months ago. 
Vandy receives $340M gift 
NASHVILLE 
Vanderbilt University was promised at ltrnst $340 million worth or Ingram Micro Inc. stock on Monday -one or the largest gifts ever given to a college. Ingram 
,Charitable Fund, based in Nashville, donat­ncl 8 million shams -nearly 6 percent or the computer distributor -to be used for a wide range of university programs. "This girt is or incalculable importance to Vanderbilt," Chancellor Joe B. Wyatt said. "It is unprecedented in size and stands alongside Cornelius Vanderbilt's founding gift 125 years ago as a singular landmark in lhn history of this university." 
¦
&Eifui&lWlu 
Dow 
AMEX: 663.58
]ONES 
. l(U4 Nasdaq:
9116.55 
1949.54 
-66.90 
• 
NYSE: 571.50 -11.50 S&P 500: 1163.63 

Composite
-28.00 

Volume;-216.53 693,000,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

B2Mt=6~X ·tu-lSEB •~1 CUAtiUE i U~l?S l!:IUC'E i'IAVMREC:llRP NhVR +B.Off +2.KI Z~ 15.!Kl 
0

E.t,l;tftAD.COM INC F.tiri) IQ,J7 .6.1250 25.5 Ill.I.I. COMl'UTFR llf.1.L -4.70 .3 ()000 M.Rl:2.5 tt(l{lKS-A-Mll.l.10111 MMM -24 24 -9.4.175 29.5 <.:ONNtl'ilNC t:NKT -18.JJ -1.<MkHl 5. L!S UNIJAl'll LORI' en +~.!"i() tl.()000 19.00 AMfHONIIN!. A!ll -7.71 .7 1125 RI ~615 MU 'RO.'iO'Fr CORI' MSl'T -4-1.l -6.0625 122.00 INH.L cnRr INTL -l.lo -Z.J750 107.625 ill'F.N MARKl"T INt" OMIIT -16 K7 -.1\Uotl 17.25 
¦ WASHINGTON 0.C. 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
The United States and 42 other nations pledged more than $3 billion Monday to help alleviate Palestinian poverty. Vasser Arafat declared himself satisfied, and stepped up his ran­corous exchanges with Israel by declaring Jerusalem "occupied terri­tory" that should be turned over to the Arabs. 
The outpouring of pledges at a one-day conference at the State Department gave visible backing to President Clinton as he sought to push the Mideast peace effort forward. 
"No peace stands a chance of lasting if it does not deliver real results to ordinary people," Clinton said in urging the European, Asian and Arab nations to do better than the $2.3 billion pledged five years ago. 

Clinton met privately with Arafat at the White House, hearing his complaint that Israel had not released enough political prisoners under the Wye agreement the president helped arrange in October. 
"1 am satisfied," Arafat said in response to the announcement by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright that "it appears the delega­tions pledged more than $3 billion." She called the response "a substantial achievement." 
The European Union 
pledged $2 billion in assis­tance to Palestinians on the West Bank and in Gaza over five years. Austrian Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schuessel said at a windup news conference. 
He said one-half million jobs had to be created for the Palestinians over the next 10 years. 
Clinton said the United States intends to increase its contribution by adding $400 mi]Jion to the $100 million a year it plans to donate over the next five years. The United States has contributed $500 mil­lion since 1993. 
Albright said the U.S. assistance would go directly to projects in Palestinian­controlled areas and the Agency for International Development would assure that "every dollar is accounted for." 
But while Clinton spoke hopefully of overcoming "bumps in the road" in the peace process he has fos­tered, political tensions between Arafat and Israel were rising again. 
Arafat declared anew that he hoped to establish an independent Palestinian state. He also accused Israel of undermining the Palestinian economy with a "continued siege and fre­quent closure" of the bor­ders with Gaza and the West Bank. 
Arafat did, however, cite peace as the Palestinians prime concern. 

DeLay predicts Clinton impeachment 
ASSOCIA'l'.l!Q PIUlSS 

WASHINGTON 
The chie;!l' Hepublican vote counter . in the House accused Presid,rnt Clinton on Sunday of trying to evade perjury charges ''on a technicality/ and. bPcame the first memberdftbe Republicall h~ad9tship to predi~( that the Honse would impea.ch the president. 
Rep. To.m DeLay of Texas, the Republican whip, criticized Clinton's formal respons13s .o,n Friday to 81 questions,subtnitted:by­the House JudiciaryCommittee. . 
"Once again, the president is try­ing to redefine what sexual rela­tions are, he's trying to use lfJgalese and Iawyerose to do two-steps nround the questions and try .to Mt off ou a technicality." Doby sald on 

tho CNl'fp(ogrztm:"Late Er;lition." ­
·D.eLay;,¼'3J})os~. ability to keep tabs mi Republican votHs in the House is widely respected by both parties, cautioned that he had not taken n formal hca,d count on impeachment. But he i.Ildicated that his experience toJd hµn '\hat· the House would fol• low th<; .recommendations of the Judiciary Committeo, which is expected to approve, along party lines, at least one charge of perjury. "The majority of the House will uphold tqe.rule of law and impeach the president and send -the cii,se to the Senate";" said DeLay, who is the third-ranking Republican in the 
House. 

DeJ..ay's unusual forecast came as an outspoken Hepublican on the Judiclart~ommittee, one who bas implpre,.f,tlio White House foi; a way to avoid impeachment, also voiced anger over Cli.nton 's answers. 
''He's still dancing on the head of a pin," Hep. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina sald. "Right. now, to me, he is an unrepentant porjurnr who should lose his job unless he changes his tone with the American people and reconciles hirnselt' with the law." 
Clinton's tersely worded replies, repeating lH1.rlit1r d(rnlals that hli had lied under oath or had urged others to do so, seem to have hard• ened Lh(J partisan views of' Republican and Democratic commit­tee members, and givt!n no new information to oth,H lawmakers who are anxious to lwar the prnsi• dent's side of the story before mak­ing up their minds on how to vote on imp(1achment. 

page 6 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 1, I998 
Background check irritates prospective gun buyers 


Associated Press 
WAUSAU. Wis. 

Told he would have to wait at least a half-hour to buy a 12­gaugo shotgun for grouse hunt­ing. Eric Thompson rolled his eyes Monday and leaned on the store counter. 
The hot line to the federal computer system was busy, he was informed by a salesman at Gander Mountain, a sporting goods store in Wausau, Wis. 
'Tm cutting into my daylight driving time," grumbled Thompson, 34, who was on his wav back home to Illinois after sp~nding the weekend in Wisconsin. Ile said if he hits a deer while driving home, the government is going to hear about it. 
A new federal background checking system for all prospective gun buyers kicked in on Monday and was met with technical delays and impatient customers and store owners. 
The new instant-check systom is n•quired under the Brady Act, which established federal background checks for hand­gun purchasers almost five years ago. Beginning Monday, people buying rifles and shot­guns had to submit to checks, too. 
Federal law prohibits the pur­chase of guns by felons. the mentally ill and people convict­ed of domestic violence. 
Tho Justice Department has given $200 million to states in tho past fow years to help them computerize their records. The FBI says that once the system is working smoothly, approvals should take just three minutes. 
Activists on both sides of the gun control debate have serious problems wilh the new back­ground checks. 
Tho National Rifle Association said it will sue over the system, which it calls "an illegal nation­al registration of gun owners." 
And groups Like Handgun Control say the new law is too lax because it decreases the time officials have to research a 
SPRING BREAK'99 
HOURS & HOURS OF FREE DRINKS! Earn 2 FREE Trips & $$$$$! C11ntun,JJmair:i, Aorid;i, UarbJdoo;, ll,1hJnta< Lone,I Prkrs /ll~I Mc.ii l'lan l•800·J26•77l0 I w1u1.~umpla\htour.;,corn 

,. IJi!I•'''
~­


potential buyer, Under the old law, they had five days if they neoded it. Under the new law, they have three. 
Gun control activists also don't like it that 24 states are having the FBI do the back­ground checks for them. Federal officials don't have access to such background information as restraining orders and involuntary commit­ments to mental hnspitals. 
James Brady, the former White House spokesman for whom the Brady Law is named, said Monday the lack of access to some background informa­tion is a f1aw in the law. Ho and his wife, Sarah, bt1came gun control activists after he was wounded in the attempt on President Reagan's life in 1981. 
States had the option of run­ning the system themselves, or having the f'ederal government do it for free. Sixteen states chose to do it themselves. Ten others will nm their own hand­gun checks and let the FBI han­dle the long gun purchases. 
Many gun dealers said Monday they and their cus­tomers were confused by tlrn new system, and many were having trouble getting through to the FBI's approval hot line. Others wore annoyed that their employees had to sit on hold or install new phone lines. 
"Somewhere late morning or early afternoon, the complete system went down. The phones literally wouldn't answer," said Barry Perry of Perry's Gun Shop in Wendell. N.C. "I don't know if it was a computer over­1 o ad or too many incoming 
calls." Later, Perry said, the system went back up. The FBI did not respond to requests for an interview. 
At Gary's Gun Shop in Sioux Falls, S.D., one buyer had gone through the check by midmorn­ing. It took a half-dozen times to get through to the hot line, then ahout 10 minutes to wait for approval. said owner Gary Salmon. 
"From our standpoint, it's going to add a fair amount of expense for us. We're going to end up with one person at least part tirrrn spending all their time on the phone. We'rn putting in a third phone line," he said. 
Other places said even if tho system eventually works smoothly, they find it oppres­sive. 

ATTENTION GOVERNMENT MAJORS! 
N~W is the time to apply for a Spnng 99 Governn1ent Internship! 
Sign up for an interview & pick up an application 
Ill 

217 O'Shaughnessy. For rnore information call 631-8248 
Oelfu-e!'11rf Tk Bef~t Pizza.I [n(E;)G)~ ~U)© ® . ©®~ Lf·(!]©~c{]G)~gg  
9  12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 6:00 & 7:30, 11:00-12:30 9 the price of your the price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
ND store Saint Mary's/ 271-1177 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPAVisa/Mastercard Accepted  

·-----------, 
page 7

Tuesday, December I, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTIEMENT 
-·-· 

Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
punishment demean the lives of 
countless individuals in our society. Gather with us in Eucharistic 
Adoration to pray for an end 
to the culture of death. 
"I make a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more understanding, and our love for the poor more compassionate ... " 
-Mother Teresa 

Sponwrrd by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDC • IMI 


Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of 
death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to Cod 
and Ilis gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care 
for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from 
seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service 
to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. 
We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration He is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually IJrl hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 
If Jesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow I lim to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminemly in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.C.D.W. 

EtJCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Blessed Mother Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm (following 11:00pm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm 
•(Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
----·-----­

VIEWPOINT 

------------------Tuesday, December I, 1998
page 8 
THE OBSERVER NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. BoxQ, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, !N 46556 (219) 284-5365 1998-99 GENERAL BOARD EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bdan Rejnrhalcr Kyle Carlin AsslSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearhc:r MacKenzie NEWS EDITOR ........................Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER..........•.......••.... Bryan Lutz VtEWPOINT EDITOR .......••....•.•.• Eduardo Llull Ao OF51GN MANAGER ........................Brett Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ......................Karhle,:n Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouillet ScENE EDITORS...........................Sarah Dvlag CoNTROLLER .....................................Da\re Rogero Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pere Cilella l'HOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum The Observer is the indcpcnJcm nC'Wspap<::r rubli.shcd by rhc .students of the University of Nacre Oame du (.ac' :tnd' Saint Mary's College. ft does nor necessarily reflect che Policies of che .adminisuacion ofeither institurio.n. The new~ is reporrcd as accurately .and objectivdy as possible-. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion ofrhe majot'ity of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Ac:~istanr Man:iging Editor and department editors. Commenrarit".s, letters and columns prc.,;em rhc views ofthe authnrs. and nor nccesi:arily those ofThe Ohserver. Viewpoinl space is availabk· to all mC"ntbers of rhc Norrc Dame/Saint M:uy's co1nmuniry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is cncournged. Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-454 I Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phorc, 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spom 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. J@nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@clarwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.ub,mcws. l@nd.edu  I DID NOf UA\IE. AN \NAPPROPR\4TE: \<ELATIONGI-UP ~nu1U4T V'J011\4N !..  

¦ THE PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Demand for a Sweatshop-Free Campus: Is ND's Bottom Line the Dollar or Justice 
Although we should be proud that Notre Dame was the first university to adopt a licensing Code of Conduct, we must recognize the need for improve­ment. The sad truth is that all of these standards and principles asserted in the current Code of Conduct, just and moral in intention. are not enforced. implemented or known to be in prac­tice. And perhaps we ought to exam­ine some of the basic human rights the Code originally failed to ensure. 
ND's "exemplary" Code of Conduct failed to recognize and respect the right of employees to freedom of asso­ciation and collective bargaining, a fundamental right listed in Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the National Council of Catholic Bishop's Economic Justice For All. 
If we wish to assume a leadership role among colleges and universities, it is imperative that we step up our policies to call for the right to orga­nize. If we are, in fact, an institution so determinedly concerned with pre­serving our Catholicism and promot­ing Catholic social teaching, then why have we failed to protect the right of workers to organize? Even Duke University and Brown University, who owe no obligation to Catholic teach­ing, call for thP-right to organize. Brown's code explicitly states: "Licensees shall recognize and respect the right oici'iiployees to freedom of association and collective bargaining and shall not interfere with the organiz­ing process nor dismiss workers who exercise their right to organize." 
Again. ND failed to insure workers who manufacture clothing with the ND logo the right to a living wage. In many developing countries where Notre Dame apparel is manufactured, the legal mini­mum wage is not at a level that guaran­tees the workers enough money to sus­tain themselves, let alone their children and families. Legal minimum wages in many countries are often intentionally driven down to attract manufacturers to their country. Workers find themselves 

racing toward the bottom as they earn sub-poverty wages. Companies must be required to provide wages which can afford the most basic needs: nutrition, health care, clothing, education, clean water, transportation and shelter. By failing to call for a living wage and limit­ing work hours and prohibiting child labor, in a sense, we are creating fur­ther injury for workers who no longer rely on their children's wages and over­time to supplement their earnings. 
Without mandated living wages, ND is contributing to economic injustice, poverty and exploitation. 
Certainly, the standards set forth in the current Code of Conduct are com­mendable -prohibition of forced labor, 
excessive overtime and harassment. But what do these standards mean if we do not even know where the ND logo is being manufactured and under what conditions? SWEATSHOPS THRIVE IN SECRECY. As the findings of UNITE reveal to us, in a report which alleged the manufacturing of ND hats in a sweatshop where working conditions violated numerous standards of the Code, adherence to this code means very little unless we havn the Right-to-Know. Haven't we learned the lesson that this terrible incident taught us'? We cannot trust our Code of Conduct with­out the Right-to-know exactly where items bearing the ND logo are made. So long as the locations of these manufac­
turers remain setret, sweatshops will proliferate. If information became open to the public. corpo­rations might feel pressured to start paying a little more to insure that their products be manufac­tured under decent conditions. 
We as students should be allowed to take part in improving this Code of Conduct. We can play an important role in ensuring jus­tice in our Code of Conduct. If Notre Dame's primary interests are not financial, then why wasn't student input invited when the Code was first adopted? 
We demand that the ND logo stand as a symbol of the academic, athletic, religious tradition we believe this University to embody, not a symbol of greed, poverty and human exploitation. As Catholics, we "are called to work for econom­ic justice in the face of persistent poverty. growing income gaps and increasing discussion of economic issues in the United States and around the World"(U.S. Catholic Bishops, Economic Justice For All). 
As a University, we must prove to our­selves and the rest of the academic world, that the bottom line at Notre Dame is not the dollar. but is justice. 
Julie Hodek is a sophomore. govern­ment and international studies major living in Farley llall. 
The Progressine Student Alliance runs a column every Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­
¦ (luon: OF THE DAY 
'Son, when you partic­
ipate in sporting 
events, it's not whether you 
win or lose; it's how drunk 
you get.' 
-Homer Simpson 

¦ Doot\lESBU!W GARRY TRUDEAU 
Ir [1O/NG c:VO/?l<,ORJ<Mt:AN!3

tu/3U, I WOUW, CRICKET,
/l/3Y, ZIPPeR, NOW 

~..Yal'Ve C{X}f,.,JIUH?
8(JT -p.(/5£.!<R3Rff;/IIQ3 H45 
HAVING '10 SC/?£W Off UNTll-
THAT Ya!~l3CX)9{T 

AtREAl?Y AN/?Il11
TAUGHTMe ::OIYfl;_7HING VALU­
7Jlt3 LAGTMINUJc,, I.F THATS
Y~Aume 

(30T,f..11<&,A ONL-YA
A8U. IT5 TAU0ffME 7HATI 
/,UHAT/TTAl<&S, lliEN I SI-WW
TIM&, v.JHYNOTGeT 

ao!?I< 8t3ST(JN!?f;R. 
f!3<50NAl­fPOSH 1
JUGTACCliPTJT,AN/?NOT 7RY
AHEAl?FORA 

P/?£:$1./Re., 
W 8e UKet3V/3/<YlJOlJ'I ft~/ PHIWSOff/Y! \
Ol.4NGe.? 

I
I 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, December I, 1998----~ --~------------
page 9 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The Observer 
Reports the News, not Leftist Beliefs 
Thorn havo been many instances in my two ancJ a half years al Notre Dame when I have foh compelled ·to write letl(lrs to Th<i Observer. Whothnr my love of <lebutc was stirred up by an lm,ide Column, letter to the editor Cit an m1tire is!>Uf' of Hight lfoasnn, until now I have resisted tho t1,rnptatio11 lo voice my opinion in writ.I.en fashion. Usually, I just r11turn from clnss or the dining hall and rnnt to my roommates and friends about tho idiocy that somotirnes runs rampant on this camp11s and the !'act that there are intelligent pPople out there who support it. I don't know what it w.~s about Krislophfir Ian Tufft's Nov. 19 !utter which has compelled me to actually write. Perhaps it's that it is Friday aft~rnoon nnd I am linishPd wil:h uH mv classet,. Moro lik0ly. it is my groat lovo of irony: L<lt mo be ono or tlm lirst to point out to you, Mr. Tefft, the extrnme irony of your lettt~r. You write com­plaining about Lhe amounl of space thi: Observor devotes to "gay issuos," but your pub­lished lclter is only perpetuating the so-caUecl probhim. 
You so1i, tvfr. Tefft, Urn Obserwir is a newspa­per. IL~ job is to report the news. Phil Donahue, a respPctod (and famous. might I 1iddJ Notre Dame alumnus comes to speak on campus. That is n,~ws, regardless of the topic of the speech. The non-discrimination clause and the battle nver it is news on this campus. H is an important issue, one Tho Observer shoulcl be covering. The philosophy grad student's editorial? That stu· dent has 1wery right 1.0 write on whatever topic he choosos. The lotter from the Carnogic Mellon profpssor? I bPlieve The Observer made a good choice in printing thP letter, as the student body should bn interest11d to know its contents. In short. I hope you·arn not basing your judgement on The ObsnrvPr's coverage of'·gay issues" as a whole ou the odition orone day and its statistics. As n student about to finish law school. I'm sure you realize such generalizations are hardly valid. As an 11xplanation for lhis "disproportion­ato coverage" of one day, you have dismissed coincidence and looked for a deeper, hidden meaning. Your use of the word ''innocuous" ttimls to imply that you bolievo thero is some sort of loftisl conspiracy group within The Observer that exisl"> solely to change this news· paper's purpose from r11porting the nows to championing gay rights. Or perhaps, everyone who runs Tim Obs1ffver is, in fact, a homosexu• al. Heporton;, nditors, illustrnLors-each and nvmy one Joined The Observer staff merely to "clieerlead" for their own cause. Yes, I do believe we've found the real explanation. 
On a somewhat div1irgPnl. but rolatnd note, I must admit that you worn right about one thing, Mr. Tefft That is, the "issues of Catholic moral thooloh'Y and erlucational philosophy" concorn­ing tho recent debate over the non-discrimina­ti<in clause are straightforward. Discrimination is wrung in thf1 ey1is or the Catholic Church and Christianity iL'i a whole. Tho Bible teachos us to lovH our neighbor and judgC' not lest ye be judged. So wh,tt if homosexual acts are driemed a sin by thll Church (and I am not saying homo­sexuality is wrong, I beliovll tho point is irrele­vant to the dt'liate. I um merely concfiding for the sako ol' argumcnl that somo believe it to hll so)'? So what? Does this mean wo are to carry out God's judgement hem on N1.rth? Find mo the pnssago of th1:i Bibhi wlumi it instrucl.s us to do thttt. It is simple and straight-forward. We aro to treat every human being wHh respect a.ncl let Ciod do tile judging. I do not b1~liove allowing dis­crimination on this campus tre1its anyone with rnspect. I doubt this is how you meant your comment about thfl issues being ".straight-for• ward" to bn intorpl'eted, Mr. Tent. but 1belhwe that the hypocrisy of the University on this issue is indeed straightforward, and that The Obst)rver lms cw11ry righl to reporl lhe news con• corning these "gay issues" to tho bost of il,; abili­ty. 
Julie Fahey 
Junior, Parky H.ill Novem~r 20. 1998 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Contraceptives and Abortion 
Not Necessary Information 
or Viable Options 
I would like to n~spon<l to ll.honda Moore's leU!:r in your nPwspapcr of Monday, Nov. I 6, not so much to defend Soan Vinck (who seems capable of doing that himself) as to make sonw points which mi!a{ht be of value in tile campus discussion regarding the Womcm's Hcsource Center (WllC). which discussion has continued in your newspaper from time to time. 
In her letter. Ms. Moore ass!wts that "thore is a need for inl'ormaUon about abortions and conlracep­tion cm this campus" and that the WIK is "providing much needed information so students can make deci­sions aware ol' all the facts a11d options available lo them." Ms. Moore !\Choes the statements ofoUu~rs who criticize Lhe adminisLraLion for instructing the WRC lo comply with Catholic moral teaching. · 
l11 the vinw of these critics, the WRC is simply "pro• vi<ling information" about "options." They see a uis­linction hetween "providing informatiun" about thP "options" of abortion and contraception on the one hand, and actually advocating these practices on the otlrnr. llencn, Notre Damn, even though it officially opposns abortion and contntc11ption, acts unreason­ably when it insists that the WHC should not "provide information" about the available "options." I think this argument is fatally !lawed. 
First. them is no need for the WHC to distribute information about abortion and contraccplion. To understand why this is so, one must understand the Catholic view of the nature of the person and the nature of sin. A person is created by God to enjoy eter­nal lifo with God. /\. mortal sin is an act by which a person turns away from God and rejects his offer of tltPrnal life. Since eternal life with God is the greatest good thnt mm can achieve, it docs not make sense to commit mortal sins and risk losing it. 
Procuring abortions and using conlracnptiv11s am mortal sins. Since mortal sins deprive orrn of com mu· nion with God, it is not posi;ible for a person to "none!" to commit a mortal sin. No one can ever "rwnd" sonrn­thing that destroys her soul. So thnrn is 1rn "nned" for information about contraceptives and abortion on this or any olher university campus. 
Sneond, the idea that abortion and cont.racnplion arn "options" and that iL is okay to "providri information" about them presupposes that they am in fact lngiti• mate and good, or at least not evil. For an organiza­tion to present an act as a11 "option" and to "provid11 information" that facilitates the act. is implicitly to slate that it falls within tlw rangn of permissible acls. But procuring abortions and using contraceptives are immnral acts, so they cannot be considernd as legiti­mate "options." 
Third, llrn only peoplfl who are trying to imposn their views on others here are tlrn critics of thn University. Thuy aro, in effect, insisling that Notro Dame sponsor and support. activitins which am anti­thetical to its own beliefs. That would Im likc insisting that a largely /\.l'rican-/\.merican university allow a stu· dent chapter of the Aryan Nations to form on its cam­pus. 
Ms. Moore might respond by saying that "Cod has not made Notre Dame the knepcr of my soul." This may be true, but certainly Notre Danrn has no obliga­tion to help Ms. Moore destroy it. 
Emil J. Kiehne Norrc Dame Law School '00 kichnc. I fil~nd.cdu November 22, 1998 

Shot at Comedy Takes Unfortunate Shot at ''Low-Income Persons'' 

Thanks to Mary Beth Ellis for 11flr funny satire of the .Jorry Springer Show (The Obsnrvcr, Nov. 24). However, I am conc,irned about lwr inclusion of the question, "In what type of trailer home do you live?" on the survey of those accepting an invilalion to appear on the show. 
I write as someone who, as a legal aid attorney in rural Pennsylvania, represented many poor peoplo who lived in trailor parks, and, as a graduate student at Notre Dame, who can (by choice). by at lflasl some mea­sures, be counted among those "low-incomn persons" in our country. Most people know that in common usage, "living in a trailer park" or in a "moble honrn" has become the latest slur in a long line of cxprnssions, such as "white trash," to connect poor pnoplc and moral depravity. Most people of faith, including, !'or instance, thos~1 of us in thn Roman Catholic community, have rejected that linkage entirely. By placing lrnr trailer home qucslion along side questions concerning "illegiti­macy," infidelity, exhibitionism, crack dealers, pimps, profanity and plain stupidity. Ms. Ellis docs nothing to brnak that link in tlrn public consciousnnss, and in fact strengthnns it a bit. Furtlrnrmor1i, Ms. Ellis' occupational category of "Professional well'are acc:umulator" might imply that in real lifo a significant percentage of J)<\ople are just dying to live off that paltry cash-assistance grant the govnrmrnmt gives to some people without a job. 
It is precisely because thn c:o111wction Ms. Ellis mak1is is so insidious, and in all liknlihood unintentional on lwr part, thal Lhis is worth talking about. Prnjudic,i and stereotyping am destruclivB, and hard for eaeh of us to catch. So let's kncp up the comedy but makn a distinc­tion between "Jerry Springer values" ancl pnoplo who happnn lo have loss than wo do. 
James Ball 
Craduatc Studt'nt Dcparcnicnt of Theology November 25, l 998 · 



.. 
O
THE 

page IO ---------------Tuesday, December I, 1998
BSERVER 


Sweet dreams and nightrnares ... where do they come from? Does what we see in our dreams have any meaning? While researchers try to learn more about what our minds do ivhile we sleep, it is still fun to think of what the images might mean. 
By MICHELLE BARTON you fell asleep? This happens because giving yourself pre­Assistant Scene Editor sleep suggestions can cause you to dream about those suggestions. So as you lay in bed at night. it might be Have you ever saved the world from an alien invasion'? worthwhile to take a moment and think of a pleasant Been chased down your street by a band of cowboys? Or thought which might be nice to dream about. Would you maybe you've gained the ability to fly? What's that? Only like to do well on your finals? Although reality may not be in your dreams? Good enough. as forgiving. some pre-sleep suggestions and a hit of 
Although some have trouble remembering their dreams. dreaming may give you momentary, maybe false, satisfac­research shows that everyone dreams. The most vivid of tion. our dreams occur while in Rapid Eye Movement (HEM) People often comment that they can guide their dreams sleep. This type of sleep occurs about every 90-100 min­and cause things to happen in them, somewhat like in a utes, three to four times a night. Each segment of REM video game. This might actually be true. A type of dream­sleep may last up to 45 minutes. Although many aren't ing called "lucid dreaming" consists of the sleeper being aware of it because color is such a normal part of our aware that he is dreaming. Many people experience this visual experience, research suggests that most dreams are and realize that they can control the course of events in in color. their dream. 
What is this altered world in which we spend so much of Sensual "input," often things you hear around you as our lives? While we analyze, plan and strategize our wak­you sleep, are incorporated into your dream. You may ing hours, once we drift off to sleep we have lost the tight dream that you are doing karaoke with friends and reign of control we are used to. There are, however, fac­awake to realize you were singing along with your tors from our waking lives which are thought to shape and alarm clock radio. alter our dreaming hours. While one cannot assume that dreams are a result of 
Nightmares. which are common among children and unconscious wishes, or that they have any special adults are thought to be caused by stress, traumatic expe­meaning, there are many suggested symbolic mean­riences, emotional problems, drugs or illness. If you are ings for images that occur in dreams. For those who more sensitive, trusting, and emotional than most, you are wondering what the fact that you are flying like a may be especially prone to night mares. bi.rd or falling through the air might mean, here are . 
Do you ever remember a dream and realize that its some suggested interpretations from Russell Grant's subject is something you were thinking about right before 'The Illustrated Dream Dictionary.' 
Alien: Divorce: 
Meeting aliens in your dreams predicts important changes. If you are married, this If you see yourself as an alien, valuable new friends are dream is contrary and about to enter your life. means you can rely on your mate. If you are single, it is a Babies: warning that you are misplacing your affections.
Often symbolize success. If you are a single girl, it could mean someone is trying to seduce you. A newborn baby implies you have a child-like dependence on someone you Escalator: are close to. A crying baby could be a sign to take heart. If a Going up an escalator signifies success. baby in your dream starts to walk, independence will be Going down signifies that you can succeed in yours. the end if you are extrememly determined. 
Blindfold: Falling: 
If you see a blindfold, there is something bothering your These common dreams can be a symbol of fear in real life, often conscience. When you are wearing it, you should review of failure in work or love. A dream that you are falling suggests your plans for suspicious motives. a need to allow yourself to release and enjoy more. These 
dreams can stem from feelings of isolation or a need for support Cage: or acceptance. Bird cages symbolize happy marriage. If the cage is empty with the door open, look for betrayal. Flowers: 
Fresh, bright flowers suggest you will soon be the happiest ever. 
Cell: Dead, wilted flowers are a warning that you are being overcon­If you dream you are in a cell or in prison, be careful not to fident. Wild flowers imply there is adventure ahead. be careless. Keep promises or you could lose a friend. Roses: If you give roses to someone it is a sign that 
someone loves you. If you receive them you will be a social success. 
Dagger: 

Be ready for a surprise. Be more tactful to avoid a difficult 
Flying:

situation. If others in your dream have daggers, it could If you fly successfully, you might achieve your ambitions with­
mean you wil1 win against tough opposition. out trouble. If you have trouble flying, you may be attempting 

too lofty of a goal. 

O THE 

Tuesday, Decc::mher I, 1998 ---BSERVER page I 
Trojans fight Battle, win war 

By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assist.mt Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES 

For an Irish tnam that has relied on dif'fornnl playnrs lo spark the victories on its 9-1 strnson, no one stepped up whnn Notrt) Dame ncr,ded il most. 
Losing starting quarlcrback Jarious .Jackson with sprairwd knee ligaments in last week's win over Louisiana Stal.(1, tlw ol'fonsc spent the whole day looking for somnone to put the pres­sum 011 Southern California. But the "tc1am of destiny" which had pulled 0L1t f'ivn come-l'rom-behind wins in compiling its 9-1 record, was never ah le• to g e t on lhe board as the Trojans lwld on to win with 10 total points. First-year USC head coach l'aul llackntl's dofonsn broke a 36­ynar slrt•ak ns thny hn!d the Irish scon\11:ss in thn gamo. 
Tlw unrankt'll Trojans wrapped up an 8-4 snason with the upsnl of No. 9 Nolrn Danw in front or a f.os /\ngnlns Cnlis11um crowd of 90,069. Nending a win Lo ensurn a Bowl Championship Sin-ins invitation. Notre Damn will now al' c e pl an in vita ti on to the Gator Bowl. . 
Backup quartNbarks Eric Chappell and /\rnaz Battle wcrn both thrown 
into the role of offensive leaders after Jackson's injury and under pressure to lead the Irish to victory. Hackett responded by adding to the pressure with a veteran defense that had 20 interceptions under its belt, good for second best in the nation. 
"Its just because of a lack of experi­ence," said the freshman Battle. "Coming out here against a great team like USC, and they have a lot of great players like [Chris] Claiborne and IOaylonl Mccutcheon. They just put on a lot of pressure." 
Chappell faced a similar defense as the junior played his first minutes at quarterback to start the game. After unsuccessfully rushing the ball in the first two drives, Chappell threw his first collegiate pass on third down and 14 yards on the second drive. But USC's Mark Cusano picked off the pass intended for Malcolm Johnson. 
Southern California failed to score on Cusano's 19-yard interc<'ption return, his second interception in as many years against the Irish. Despite starting the Trojans of!' at Notre Dame's 24-yard line, a sack on Carson Palmer by Lamont Bryant and Rrad Williams forced lhe Trojans to atlf1mpl a 47-yard f'ield goal that foll short. 
Chappell added just two more pass­ing attempts after the interception. The first was thrown low to Johnson at the end of the first quarter and his next -and last -was taken for his sec­ond interception. This time, the pass landed to Claiborne on the opening drive of the second quarter. Despite being the leading rusher in the game at that point -with seven carries for 33 yards -Bob Davie pulled Chappell in favor of the freshman Battle. 
With a line that held Autry Denson to just 21 yards on 10 attempts in the half, the Irish were unable to move the ball in the air, not having com­pleted a pass in the first half. 
"One thing we had to do when they have nine guys up front was we had to execute and go out to our receivers," said Chappell. 
Denson linislrnd with his lowest rush yardage (46 yards) since he gained an equal total on the ground in 1996 against Air Force. With USC staeking the line, the Irish had no where to go on the rush. 
"Defensively, they had their safeties up tight which we expected," said Oavie. "It took us out of our T f'orma­tio n running game. We got lo the point where we were pretty mueh exclusively option football." 
Battle's l'irst drive when he stepped in to replace Chappell was the best chance Notre Dame had to score. After Kory Minor intercepted a Palmer pass and returned it to the Trojan 14, Davie played his second option on the field. Battle carried the ball on third down to the two-yard­line when a controversial call ruled that he was not down before fumbling the ball. Ken Haslip got the turnover and returned it for 27 yards to keep Battle from his first scoring play, 
With both teams being l!Arried by their defenses in the first half, it proved only a matter of' time before one of the teams scored. USC did just that in the third quarter. scoring their 10 points on back-to-back posses­sions. 
After gaining just 28 yards in the 11rst half', Chad Morton rushed f'or 100 in the second as the Trojans nxpandncl their attack behind their unproven offensive line. 
"Wn have a lot of ho art on th is team," said Morton, who f'inislwd Urn season with 967 yards even after sit­ting out two games with injury. "Despite what Pvnryorrn's said about us. about our ol'fonsivo line not being 
see GAME/ page 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME Ql)OTE OF THE GAME STAT OF THE GAME 
"I think [the offense! was limited from the 
The two Irish quarterbacks finished thr, game a

Carson Palmer. the other freshman quar­standpoint of the passing game. They put those corners out there man to man and combined 7 of 22 passing with 94 yards andtflrback, n•corded his lirst career rushing 
brought those safeties up in there and to run 
four interceptions. Notre Dame didn't complete

touchdown, and that was the only cushion 
against nine guys is extremely tough." 
a pass until 4:47 left in the third quarter.
the USC defense needed. 

Irish head coach Bob Davie 
page 2 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, December 1, 1998 
Freshmen QBs brighten dull offensive day 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assis,am Sport< Editor 
LOS ANGELES 

Playing in the Notre Oame­Southern California game usual­ly turns out to be the biggest moment for players on both learns -especially when the best intersectional rivalry game Lurns out to be the last regular­season game for graduating seniors. 
But the 70th installment of Lhc rivalry was a much bigger game for two players who arc a long way oIT from playing in their last collegiate contest. Two freshmen led their teams in what were clearly the most defining moments of their short careers. 
One was a perfect match at quarterback to the Irish option offense. The other was a drop­back passer who was supposed to be Notre Dame's replacement for Hon Powlus. but wound up in Southern California. 
One came into Saturday's game with just six minutes of experi1mce under his belt. The other played key backup roles in each of USC's first eight games before becoming the starter against Washington. 
The players are of course Notre Dame's Arnaz Battle and USC's Carson Palmer. For the two freshmen, the game placed them in the national spotlight as both teams relied on their tal­ents for a much-desired victory. 
Ultimately, the season and Saturday's game unfolded in much different ways for the highly touted, future-star signal­callers. 
Palmer's association with Notre Dame began like many youngsters dreaming to play col­lege football for the Irish. It appeared that his dream would come true after he attended Notre Dame's summer camp his junior year. But the University asked him to bring up his SAT scores, after which point he committed to USC. 
"It just seemed that USC want­ed me more," said Palmer. "I was going to commit [to Notre Dame] my junior year. If they wanted me, I thought they could try to get me in." 
Notre Dame decided not to 
Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
experienced and being too young and being the weak link to our team, I can't ask for anything more." 
After Palmer connected with R. Jay Soward for a 25-yard reception, it was Morton who edged USC closer to its first score in the third. He rushed for consecutive gains of 11, 21 and five yards to put his team on the two-yard­line. 
Palmer capped the drive off with a sneak to the left that left the Irish sur­prised and down a louch­down. It was all USC need­ed to win the game. 
"That was a designed play," said the freshman signalcaller. "[Left guard Donta] Kendrick just pulled away and it was 
pursue Palmer, which led him to remain in southern California and commit to the Trojans. The fit has been perfect for both the passe1-and head coach Paul Hackett's offense. Having started in just three gamAs this sea­son, he has passed for 
l.475 yards, including 188 yards against the team he always wanted to play fur -the Irish. 
"He's a heck of a foot­ball player," said Irish head coad1 Bob Davie. "They've done a great job wilh him. He's in a place that brings out the best in a quarterback as far as a drop-back pass­ing game." 
Yet he could not have put a deeper dagger into the lrish than by running in for the only points USC needed to win the game. An untouched Palmer strode into the left cor­ner of the end zone in the third quarter, wav­ing his first finger for "number one." 
From the Trojan's number one to Lhe Irish backup, Battle pro­vided most of the Irish aerial aitack when he replaced starting junior Eric Chappell in the sec­ond quarter. Both quarterbacks where thrown into heavy pres­sure the week before the game. In the previous game against Louisiana State, starting quar­terback and model of offensive efficiency Jarious Jackson suf­fered a torn knee ligament in the game's closing seconds. 
That left the Irish without the player that passed for 1,740 of the team's 1,775 yards. Chappel and Battle entered the game with a combined total of one completion. 
Chappell gained the starting job against the Trojans, but after going without a completion in three attempts that yielded to two interceptions, Davie decided to stir things up with Battle. 
The impact was almost imme­diate. On his first carry on his first drive of the game, the clear-

Freshman quarterback Cason Palmer, in only his third start, slides into the end­zone untouched to give USC the first points of the game. 
ly option-oriented quarterback ran for 14 yards to USC's two­yard line. But a call, ruling the play a fumble. allowed the Trojan turnover to stand and left Battle as down as Chappell had been just moments before. 
Even worse for his confidence than the call were the two inter­ceptions he suffered as he tried to cut in to a 10-point second­half deficit. 
"I was worried about over­throwing it too much," said Battle. "I tended to overthrow it to my receivers, so I took too much off and I should have put it on [the receivers)." 
Saturday was the time for the Irish freshman to finally stop watching his tutor from the side­lines. Now it was Jackson on the sidelines watching Battle forge his own game experience. 
"He just gave me some tips," said Battle of the sideline meet­ings with Jackson. "He said just take what they give you, because they're going to come out here 

Rashard Cook (8) keeps an Arnaz Battle pass away
easy just because the line 
from Jabari Holloway (87) after having intercepted two.
did such a good job block­
ing." 
Palmer finished the game complet­ing 14-of-32 passes for 188 yards with two interceptions. 
Adam Abrams kicked a 23-yard field goal just over three minutes later to finish off the scoring. 
It was only after the Trojans scored that Notre Dame completed its first pass of the day. Johnson pulled in a Battle pass for 23 yards with 4:47 left in the third quarter. Battle finished the game seven for 19 with two inter­ceptions. 
For a team that allowed jusL 11 turnovers all season, the five against USC, including four interceptions, proved to be lethal for an Irish team that was carried bv defense. 
"We knew coming in what kind of effort it would take on defense," said Davie. "We knew we couldn't make mistakes and turn the ball over offen­sively to have a chance to win." 
and do some things against us." 
As tho 10-0 game dragged on to the final minutes, Battle gained his most significant play­ing time under Notre Dame's offense. He finished the day seven for 19 in passing for 94 yards while gaining another 27 on the rush in seven attempts. In the end, Battle may prove to be the winner from the matchup of freshman quarterbacks. 
"I just went out there and did the best I could," he said. "A lot of things didn't work out. But that's just a lack of experience and that's going to be experi­ence for the future. I have a great future and I can't let this get me down." 
In a game in which the seniors collected their last memories of this rivalry, it is the freshmen that have created the greatest moments. And, with three more potential years of their contribu­tions, it is they who will define the rivalry in the battles to come. 
¦ GAME NOTES AND 0UOTES 
After not having scored in the first quarter, the Irish broke a 24-quarter scoring streak that began against Army on Oct. 24. 
The last time Notre Dame was shutout was against Miami in 1987. The Hurricanes won 24-0. 
Trojan tailback Chad Morton's 128 yards gave him his 6th 100-yard game of the season and 8th of his career. 
Carson Palmer's two-yard touchdown run in the third quarter was his first collegiate rush­ing touchdown. That proved to be the winning play as USC held the Irish scoreless. 
Bob Davie on the outcome of the game: 
"We have no excuses. I thought Southern Cal played extremely well, I think they deserved to win the football game." 
Jarious Jackson on not being able to play: "lts very hard. I wanted to be in there so had but I couldn't." 
Carson Palmer on beating rival Notre Dame: 
"Its tremendous coming in here and playing that well against Notre Dame. The good thing is I have three more years to play in both [the UClA and Notre Dame] rivalries." 
R. Jay Soward on the play of the seniors: 
uour seniors won this game. Our seniors made things happen." 
Chris Claiborne on the defensive line: 
"I think the d-line played really good. I defi­nitely give them all ihe credit tonight They made my job a lot easier." 
GRADING 
THE 
IRISH 
Qua,·terbacks: C+ 
Ede Chappell played with reckless abandon, and Arnaz 
· f3attle did a convincing deer­in-the-headlights impression, but neither rose to the occas• si9nit1 the absence of Ja.rious 
Jackson, . 
Running Backs: c~ Denson's 46 yards rushing br,onght back memories of his 
. freshman year platoon days, but this time the opposition knew exactly what was com­ing. The weight of the entire offense was a heavy load to shoulder, but the backs didn't. ignite any sparks. 
Redevers; C+ 
Against the Trojan's fifth­rated pass defense, this unit · did their best to haul in what they could, but not much came thetr way. The routes 
· were tight, but with the quar­t.Qrbacks having difficulty reading the defense, this group vvasn't really .a factor. 
Offensive Line: D . 
Althougll. it's dtt'ficult to 
' block as many as nine defimders · up front, the men in the trenches allowed too many tackles for losses, too few holes for the backs and were penalized too manny times. 
Defensive Line: C­
Williams, Legree and Weaver gave solid efforts. but Chad Morton spun the line in circles en route to 128 yards rushing. Carson Palmer had loads of time to sit back and watch the plays develop. 
Linebackers: B 
Howard and Friday showed veteran leadership, leading the team with five tackles apiece, and Minor's home­coming effort was strong. This unit was a major reason the Trojans tallied only 10 points. 
Defensive Backs: C­
R. Jay Soward is a night­mare to defend. but luckily for the [rish, Palmer didn't always hit his mark. The pass interference call in the third quarter led to USC's final points. 
Special Teams: B-
Hunter Smith and the punt team limited Soward to one 16-yard return -no small feat since the Irish punted seven times. The return team never gave the struggling offirnse good enough field position to engineer a drive. 
Coaching:F 
· While one week is hardly adequate preparation, the tw9 young quarterbacks seem.ed unprepared and la.eked·· confidence .. When ·tho opposition expects the run and then defends it. it's time to pull out all the stops . 
Overall: 1.62 
So much for rallying around the injured Jackson. An unin­spired performance in which everything that could go wrong did. As Davie said, there are no excuses, USC just played better. The loss is that much more difficult to swal­
. low with the post-season imp}jcations. 


-------------------~-­
Tuesday, December I, 1998 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER page 3 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish unable to replace Jackson's heart 
By Allison Krilla Asrnciare Sports Fdiror 
LOS ANGELES 

OflPn tinws you don't rnalizn how important snnwonn is to a team until you lrnv1, lo play without thnm. 
Tlw Irish found out llw hard 
way just how valuahln a compo­
nent. Jarious Jackson is to Llw 
llhw and {;old machinn. 
/\rnaz Battin and Eric Chappell hngan Saturday's con­tnsl with good intnntions, hut tlrn USC defonsP virtually atn thmn alivn. Boh Davio tried to convince his tnam lhal one play­nr can not completely change tlw outconrn of a game. but in this cas11, I think hn was sadly mistaken. 
Tim nvnr-prnsenl thrnat of a run or a pass kept opposing dnfonsos 1111 their toes for nine g.111ws this snason. WhilP Jackson was not selected as a tr,am captain this yP-ar. he skip­pernd the offense artfully. .Jackson was not always porfoct, but lw was perfoctly suited for a team of blun-collar workers without a tru<l star. 
l:V!'n Davi,• couldn't predict who would play the hero -Jim Sanson's last-second field goal, Autry Dcmson's earner-high, thn goal-line defonse against BC, Tony Driver's interceptions of two Drnw Brc,is offerings, the list goes on. Fif'trnm points snpa­ratml tlrn Irish from mediocrity. /\ml h,ihincl all nine Irish wins was "Action" .lackson. always making each p11rl'ormancc bet­tcir than thn lasL. 
Bul this run of destiny didn 'L always smim that way. 
Last s,~ason was another ynar muddll'cl in tlw drop-bar.k pass­ing sdmnw hnlitting Hon l'owlus. .Jackson. who loggml just 82 minutns in two seasons, completed eight passes in 1997, and was surrounded by mounds of question marks. 
Would he fold under the pres­sure of the should-have-beens left by l'owlus? Would the opticm attack morn suited to .Jackson's stylo be olfoctivo for the Irish'? Would Jackson's arm provn strong enough'' 
Al first glance, the quarter­back in the mold of Tonv Hico did not warrant compa(isons to the former Notre Dame star. 
Tim 22-point Michigan State disaster raisud cwon more doubts about Jackson's ability. Bat.tie's touchdown drivH high­lighted .Jackson's inability to make the big plays when the team was down. Jackson's two interceptions made the quarter­back look vulnerable. 
But the lack of execution that dominated the MSU contest gave way to confidnnce, calm and strnngth. 
Jackson became tlrn go-to guy. the one who didn't buckle under pressure, the one who stepped up to make the big third-down conversion happen. 
That was until 10 days ago, when Jackson stepped back into the end zone with the LSU defonsn bfmring down, and sec­onds Jell on the game clock. The nightmare b1:gan. A missed block lcll the signalcaller within easy reach of the hungry Tigers. It wasn't a cheap shot that knocked the Irish hnro to the ground, but a last ditch effort by thu Tigers to redeem themselves and their losing record. But as .Jackson went down, the luck that had carried the Irish to an improbable 9-1 mark ran out. 
The pain in .Jackson's knee was ar.lually a shot to the heart of lhe nntirn team. 
They tl'ied to make them­sclv11s believe that, like a machine, the parts of this team 
.. 

arc interchangeable. If one part  But that reasoning was faulty  And on Saturday night, he  
of the machine fails, it can be lixed without affecting the out­ this time. A machine doosn't have a heart. but this Notre  was standing on the sidelines at Memorial Colesium wearing a  
put.  Dame team does.  heavy brace on his right knee.  


After leading the Irish to a 9-1 start, Jarious Jackson (left) spent the season finale on the sideline, talking freshman Arnaz Battle thrQugh his first major college appearance as the Notre Dame quarterback. 

¦ STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 

Scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Final 
Notre Dame 0 0 0 0 0 USC 0 0 10 0 10 
Team Statistics ND USC 
First Downs 13 18 Hushes-Yards 40-123 41-126 
Passing-Yards 94 188 


Comp-Att-Int 7-22-4 14-33-2 Pun ts-Yards 7-288 8-289 
Fumbles-Lost 1-1 0-0 
Penalties-Yards 10-107 10-104 
Time of Possession 28:49 31:11 
V
S. 
,,..
Individual Statistics 
Rushing 

ND-Denson 19-46, Chappell 7-33, Battle 7-25, Spencer 4-14 USC-Morton 27-128, Papadakis 9-8, Soward 1-3 
Passing 

ND-Battle 19-7-2-94. Chappell 3-0-2-0 USC-Palmer 32-14-2-188, Bastianelli 1-0-0-0 
Hccciving 

ND-Johnson 2-36, Brown 2-27, Getherall 1-15, Denson 1-8, Nelson 1-8 USC-Soward 7-124, Mill~r 5-50, Hayes 1-11, Powell 1-3 


¦ SCORING SUMMARY  
1st Quarter  2nd Quarter  3rd Quarter  4th Quarter  
NONE  NONE  8:22 Carson Palmer two-yard touch•  NONE  
down run (Adam Abrams PAT)  
USC 7;NDO  


page4 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, Deceember 1, 1998 

NO. 9 NOTRE DAME 0 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 10 
MEMORIAL COLISEUM NOV 28, 1998 



,

C 
e 
s 
O
THE 

Tuesday, December I, 1998 --BSERVER -----------------page 11 
nee to cfream~ 
Football: 
Dream of playing football and it is time to take a bet or a chance with money. You might get rich. If you are watch­ing football in your dreams, you should choose your 
friends with more care. 

Fruit: Apples: You might be earning a lot of money soon. Bananas: These mean you'll be pros­perous. If you eat one, you'll be pressured into some duties. Pineapple: If you are eating it, you will be a social success. 
Gambling: 
If you are playing cards in your dreams it implies a loss of prestige. Place a bet and 
it means you might get some luck. 
Heaven: 
Changes are coming, but things will be alright in the end. 
Hell: 
This is a bad omen. It predicts bad luck, sickness or loss of money. If you are escaping from hell in your dream, the future may be wonderful. 
Ice: 

Suggests danger ahead. Ice on a path means you are restless and want something exciting to happen. 
Kissing: 

This is a sign of a new love affair. Try to avoid getting kissed and a minor sickness is in the future. 
Lock: 

A padlock means you need some legal advice. If you can't unlock something, there may be trouble. If you can, expect happiness. 
Mud: 

If you step in mud, your family may have some problems. If you see mud, it means luck. 
Operation: 

If you have surgery, your lifestyle may change greatly. If you are watching an operation, you may receive a surprise. 
Pregnancy: 

If you are a girl, a dream about pregnancy may be an omen that others will help you solve problems. If a man dreams of pregnancy, he will have to fight to achieve the success in life he hopes for. 
Running: 

If you are running, you may be trying to escape from a dif­ficult situation. Running to catch something is a good sign. 
School: 

If you fail a test at school, your ambitions might be too high. 
Witch: 

Your social life might be in store for some fun, but your love life probably won't pick up any time soon. A dream about a witch suggests you have become disenchanted. 
Colors 
When you see colors in a prominant role in your dreams, they are thought to have symbolic meanings. 
White: sign of success Black: bad times are coming Red: warning to curb your temper Yellow: warns of set-backs but an eventual turn for the 
best Blue: outside help will be useful in solving your problem Brown: luck with money Green: nature, travel or news from a far away place Orange: signals unusually great success Purple: suggests good social life 
The Not-So-Royal­Shakespeare Company Presents: 'Much Ado About Nothing' 
03c. 3,4 & 5 at 7:30 p.rn. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium for International Studies 
Tickets at the door students: $3 

=== ­
page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, December 1, 1998 
concentrate on defense."
¦ HOCKEY 
She also pulled down three
Irish 
rebounds and had 4 steals in 29 minutes of play.
continued from page 20

Injured Irish fall to Ferris State 
"Sherisha not only makes 
TED BASSANI 
Sports Wrirrr 
Lasl Tuesday nighl in Grand Rapids, the upstart Ferris State Bulldogs avenged Lheir earlier loss to Notre Dame by up-end­ing the Irish 4-2 at Van Andel 
Arena. 
Similarly to their previous game on Oct. 16, the two teams played an even game which was eventually decided on a third-period goal. After the loss, Notre Dame now sits in second place in the CCHA along with Michigan. Ferris State now leads the conference with 17 points. 
The Irish entered last Tuesday's game bangf'd up and tired. They were coming off of two weekend CCHA games, one of which saw two more players (Dusbabek, Clark) suffer injuries, in addi­tion to senior Aniket Dhadphale. who suffered an injury the week before against Bowling Green. The game against the Bulldogs was the team's third game in five days, and all three starters remained out of the lineup. 
"We're a bit undermanned right now with three guys out of the lineup," coach Dave Poulin said of his team's physi­cal health. "With three games in five nights, a lot of players are playing a lot or time because those guys are out." 
Even with their physical dis­advantages, Notre Dame man­aged to get the better of the offensive play in the early going, outshooting Ferris State 9-4 in the first period. 
In the second period, the Irish got on the board first as freshman center David lnman netted his sixth goal of the year. After FSU goaltender Vince Owen stopped Brian Urick's shot from the left cir­cle, Inman was in perfect posi­tion to push in the rebound from the right side of tho crease. 

Notre Dame may have caught a break on their second goal, which tied the game at 2-2 late in the second period. With the Irish on the power play, sopho­more Chad Chipchase's shot seemed lo carom off of the cor­ner of the left post and the crossbar and back into play. 
After conferring, the officials decided that it did sneak under the crossbar for Chipchase's fifth goal of the year. 
Chipchase now has three goals in his last three games filling in for Dhadphale, and his season total of five already matches his goal output from his freshman season. The goal also ended a 1-for-15 slump on the power play for the Irish. 
One problem the Irish had to deal with throughout the night was penalties. Notre Dame was penalized a total of eight times, giving Ferris State seven power plays. 
Lately, Notre Dame's penalty kill has bAen inconsistent, and that trend would continue as the Bulldogs managed two power-play goals on the night, including the game winner. 
Despite the amount of penal­ties his team took, coach Poulin did not believe his team played a sloppy game. 
"The number of penalties were not indicative of the type of game it was," Poulin said. "Really, only one penalty was undisciplined, it cost us, and we've addressed it." 
On the whole, the game never got into high gear offen­sively due to the number of whistles that occurred. 
"There were a lot of whistles, so neither team was able to get any momentum," said captain Brian Urick. "With all the penalties, the game didn't have a lot of flow to it." 
By the end of the night, the Irish had outshot the Bulldogs 32-23, but sophomore Vince Owen·s 30 saves proved to be the difference in the game. All in all, neither goaltender was spectacular. but each one did his job. Three goals were scored on power plays and mosl of the goals i.n the game came on rebounds. 
"Hoth goalies were steady," Urick said. "Most of the goals came on rebounds, so it was a case of guys clearing out in front of the net. Goaltending wasn't a problem on either side." 
In the third period. all the breaks seemed to go the Bulldogs' way. 
Senior Ed Kowalski notched the game-winning goal on the power play with eleven min­utes to go, but the goal was certainly questionable. The puck had apparently been cov­ered by Irish goaltender Forrest Karr, but Kowalski jarred the puck loose and banged home an ugly goal that stood up, along with an empty­net goal, to win the game for 
FSU. 

Just as the calls seemed to go one way in the third period, so did the bounces. For tho sec­ond consecutive game. an Irish forward hit the post late in the third period, thus negating a potential tying goal. 
This time the shot came from junior Ben Simon, who beat Owen with a shot over his left shoulder, only to have the goaltender's best friend bail him out to preserve the lead with three minutes to play. 
After losing consecutive games for the first time all sea­son, the team will need to regroup for this weekend's showdown in Columbus against fourth place Ohio State. Currently, the Buckeyes, along with Michigan State, stand just one point behind Notre Dame in the CCHA standings. 
The Irish. however. responded plays, she makes big plays," 
Notre Dame head coach Muffet
and closed with a 9-3 run to earn their fourth victory of the McGraw said. "She made key 
a steals in the runs we had."
year and their third over 
Groen and Ivey each had 13
ranked opponent. Melissa 
points. Ivey also dished out sixParker and Tauja Catchings Bassists.
had 22 and 18 points, respec­"They have a nice combina­tively. for the 2-1 Illini. 
tion of big physical size insideFollowing the victory, the and good perimeter players,"Irish traveled to Sau Francisco San Francisco head coach Bill
on Saturday to take on the 
Nepfel said. "We could getLady Dons in another non-con­inside, but it was hard to fin­
ference game. Once again, 
ish because they're so big."
Notre Dame came away with 
Sophomore Kelley Siemon
the victory, 7 4-43. Freshman had IO points for Notre Dame
Sherisha Hills came off the 
and McMillen added 11.
bench to score a game-high 
Notre Dame clung to a 26-20
and career-best 16 points. 
halftime lead. before openingThat, along with a nine-point 
the second half with a 16-3
performance against Illinois, earned her co-Big East player run. 
The lrish will look to
of the week honors. 
improve to 6-0 when they take"I try to come in and help on Toledo at home tomorrow
out on defense," Hills said. 
night.
"Scoring is a big part, but I 

Top-ranked UConn crushes Holy Cross 
Associated Press The Huskies hit 8 of 15 3-point­ers to build a 59-24 lead at the STORRS, Conn. half. 
Shea Ralph scored 16 points UConn started the second half as top-ranked Connecticut the same way. Duran's 3-pointer cruised to a 107-56 win over kicked olT a 22-0 run to give the Holy Cross on Monday while set­Huskies a 57-point advantage, ting a school record for 3-point­their largest of the game. The ers with 13. Crusaders (2-3) scored their first 
The Huskies (5-0) were 13-of-point of the half at 12 :42 on a 20 from 3-point range, breaking Summer Ivan layup. the previous mark of 11. Ralph UConn outrebounded Holy got all of her points in the first Cross 46-18. Cash, who finished half, hitting 4 of 5 3-pointers. with 12 points, led the Huskies 
The Huskies overpowered the with eight boards. Crusaders from the opening tip Duran, Sue Bird and Keirsten with speed and strength. Their Walters each had three 3-point­accuracy from 3-point range ers. Bird and Asjha .Jones each buried the \<isitors. finished with 13 points. 
Amy Duran started a 9-0 run 1loly Cross scoring leader Amy 
with a 3-pointer at the 18:52 O'Brien, who came into the mark. Freshman Swin Cash had game averaging 29 points, was four points in the opening run. hold to 17. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Plan!l!Cancun &  to $5000-$7000/sum  NOW& FALL  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
NOTICES  Jamaica $399,Bahamas  mer. Ask us how!  1999. 272-6306  FAX IT FAST!!!  Meg -I hope you dreams of assassinating the entire population  
$459,Panama City $99.  517-336-4235  "Don't Get Burned on  of two dorms comes true.  But ... if  
THE COPY SHOP  1-800-234-7707  Ext.C55841  House for rent,  Spring  you get me wet ­you 're in big trou­ 
LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!!  endlesssummertours.co rn  I  FORRENT  105 Marquette, S bedrooms, available  Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast.  ble I am so smart, I am so smart. S­ 
Mon-Thur: 7:30 am • Midnight  ~W,_J\_N_TE_D__.I -.  ----­ROOMS IN PRIVATE  now and for next fall,  Check out our Hot Jamaica Packages for  M-R· T.. .. I mean S-M·A-R-T.  
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm  SPRING BREAK '99!  HOME FOR  ND/SMC  232-6964  the Class of '99!  Which is worse? Turner's error  
Sat: Noon • 6:00 pm  Cancun'Nassau·Jamaic  EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  Stop in at Anthony  or Pete's? Whichever is worse.  
Sun: Noon • Midnight  a·Mazatlan• Acapulco•B  TO  Room for Rent in Turtle  Travel in the Lafortune  please learn from other's mistakes  
When you need copies,  ahamasCruise·Florida•  CAMPUS 243-0658.  Creek apartments.  Student Center and  and don't do either of them.  
we're open!  South PadreTravel Free  Call 273-2435.  check out the best  
and make lots of  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  Spring Break vacations  Adam, stop playing Zelda  
Early Spring Break  Cash!Top reps  Bed and Breakfast Inn  Room. $250/mo.  around.  
Specials!  are ottered full-time  has space available for foot  Use kit.  Gel your deposit in by  CK hasn't struck in a while • a  
Bahamas Party  staff jobs.Lowest price  ball/parent wknds.  2 mi. from campus.  Dec.18 and save.Don't  long while  
Cruise'  Guaranteed.Call now  S Rooms  Pref. female grad  take a chance with an  
6 Days $279!  for details!  with private baths,  Avail. end of Dec.  unknown agency or  GOT 3A? best section of ....  
Includes  800/838-6411  $80·  246-1916.  some 1-800  
most meats! Awesome Beaches,  •ACT NOW1 CALL FOR  $115, Middlebury,3  FOR SALE  number.Limited space a vailable,so book now!  THE EVER!!!  
Nightlilel  BEST SPRING BREAK  0miles  Anthony Travel,lnc.  Carms -the big bro could be a  
Departs From  PRICES TO SOUTH  from campus.  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  Lafortune Student Center  pretty cool date -and I don't mean  
Florida!  PADRE (FREEMEALS),  Toll Road.Exit #107  198 MIN.  631-7080  my biological one -I mean your  
Cancun & Jamaica  CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY  1-800-418-9487  $20  designated Stanford Stud we saw  
Air, Hotel, Meals  WEST.PANAMA  CALL 258-4805  at the DH last night  
&Parties  CITY.REPS NEEDED/  BED 'N BREAKFAST  Looking for a umque gift?  
$339!  TRAVEL FREE  REGISTRY­ FOR SALE.  It's hotter than hell down here!  
Panama City  EARN CASH.GROUP DIS  rooms-FB-JPW·  LIVE PHISH CDS!  Bring in 12 of your favorite pic­ 
Room  COUNTS FOR 6+.  GRAD 291-7153.  Bed box set. not avail  tures and we'll create a custom  Ronald McDonald's llligitemite  
With Kitchen  WWW.LEISURETOURS.  able in  color calendar.  child is going to get Tambrel  
7 Free  COM  1,2,3,4,5.6 BDRM  U.S. call pete at  
Parties $1291  800-838-8203  HOMES.  251-0178.  THE COPY SHOP  The bagels were good but where  
Daytona  NEAR CAMPUS.  Lafortune Student Center  was the pizza?  
Room With Kitchen $149!  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOY  GILLIS PROPERTIES  PERSONAL  weesh is the adjective  
springbreaktravel.com  MENT­ 272·6551  
1-800-678-6386  Workers earn up to  FAX IT FASTI!!  weesha is the noun  
$2000+/month (wltips &  6BDRMHOME  Sending & Receiving  Noodle feet -I'm so sorry that  
#1 Spring Break  benefits).  NEAR  at  your flight was a disaster. I'm just  or -is it the other way around?  
Specials!Book Early &  World Travel!  CAMPUS.  THE COPY SHOP  glad that you and your bagels sur­ 
Receive a Free Meal  Land-Tour jobs up  AVAIL.  Lafortune Student Center  vived!  

T1.1esday, December I, 1998 
The Observer• PAID ADVERTIEMENT page 13 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 








OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Friday-Sunday, December 4-6 NDE #53 Retreat 
Sunday, December 6, 11:45 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart RCIA-Rite of Welcon1e 
This Sunday we will recognize those members of the Notre Dame community who are seeking to become fully initiated into the Catholic faith community in the Rite of Welcome. These men and women have been gathering together the past several months to explore their faith and the Catholic Church more deeply through the RCIA process. Those who are catechumens are seeking full initiation through the sacra~ ments of baptism, communion and confirmation. Those who are candidates have already been baptized and will be received into full communion through the sacra­ments of communion and confirmation. 
We welcome the following as catechumens: 
Keith Anderson  Deanette Britting  
Nicholeen DePersis  Don Dillon  
Dustin Ferrell  Beth Hendrickson  
John Holmes  Shandell Hunter  
Matt Klein  Elizabeth Kopp  
Amanda Leech  Wendi Manuel  
Mark Overdevest  Jon-Michael Wheat  
Yumiko Yao  

We welcome the following as candidates: 
Ryan Blackstone-Gardner Letitia Bowen Matt Bradley Clifford Camamile Derek Chalfant Ann David Christopher Emmert Iaian Gould Stacy King Shane Luzadder Julia Maura Matt Mischke Patrick Murphy Shazzie N aseem Terri O'Reilly Lisa Pellegrino Brett Perkins Josh Pini Brian Robinette Sunny Sirrianna Ruth Toner Adam Turner Gordon Walker Scott Warnock Elizabeth Wilschke Lusiena Wong Benjamin Zoladz 
Sunday, December 6, 4:00 p.m. Sorin Hall Cl1apel Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
"Upon This Rock" Retreat to be rescheduled. 
I ­
-

~-----------------------------, 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 1, 1998 
¦ MufSBASKETBALL 
Bowl 
continued from page 20

ND looks to rebound after two losses 
ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Spam W rircr 
The Notre Dame M1rn's Basketball leam had a forget­table weekend at the Great Alaskan Shoot-out. 
Now smarting with a 2-4 record and staring highly ranked Indiana in the face, it looks to be a long season for lrnad coach John Macleod and his over-matched team. 
The first team Notre Dame had to face in tho Thanksgiving weekend tournament was No.1­ranked Duke_ The Blue Devils were using the Shoot-out as a homecoming trip for player-of­th e-year candidate Trajan Langdon who hails from Alaska. 
Notre Dame was hoping that a tradition of knocking off num­ber one teams could propel their freshman-laden squad to a stirring performance. In the end, Duke would point out just how far off the college basket­ball map the Irish program has fallen. 
Freshman Troy Murphy, who leads the triumvirate of fellow 
classmen David Graves and 
Harold Swanagan, gave Notre Dame some hope to start the game with two dunks in the early moments. It would be the best moment for Notre Dame all night. 
With the Irish guards Jimmy Dillon, Martin lngelsby and 

Graves cutting off the driving lanes, the Blue Devils simply pulled up from deep and put on a jump-shooting clinic. Duke's point guard William Avery and two-guard Langdon would put on a shooting performance that left the lrish stunned and the Langdon-fans in the crowd delirious. Keying a 22-10 run five minutes into the game, Langdon and his teammates would finish the half 12 of 13 from behind the three-point arc. 
The Irish never recovered. Duke pushed the lead to as many as 38 points in the game and took away a 111-82 victory. 
Avery led Duke with 22 points, most of that total coming from his six three-pointers. Langdon added 20 points with 4 of 4 shooting behind the arc. Swanagan and Graves paced the Irish offense with 17 and 16 points respectively. 
If the Duke game cut into the Irish psyche. the Alaska­Anchorage gamo threw salt in the wound. The Division II Anchorage team over came an early 17-7 deficit to knock off Notre Dame in overtime 88-82. 
J.J. Pilgreen tipped in his own free throw miss with four sec­onds left to secure the Seawolves victory. 
Murphy had his best game at Notre Dame with 21 points and 17 rebounds and senior Antoni Wyche also notched 21 points. 
Notre Dame had trouble with Alaska-Anchorage's Jim Hajdukovic, who keyed a 28-9 run in the first half with 14 points in four minutes. Chris Hamey led the Seawolves with 22 points. 
Notre Dame finally broke into the tournament win column with an 81-77 win over another 
Div II foe, Southern Utah. 
(;raves was the star freshman in this contest, putting up a game-high 29 points -22 of which came in the second half. Notre Dame showed needed improvement on the free throw line converting 22 of 30 charity shots. 
The Southern Utah Thunderbirds gave the Irish fits throughout the game and led most of the way. Jim Faulkner had 21 points and Kenyatta Clyde scored 18 for Southern 
Holiday Shopping For AGolfer On Your List? 
'99 Preferred Player's Guide To 
Indiana Golf 
The complete list of golf courses and 
FREE & DISCOUNTED GOLF 
from across Indiana. 
S24.95perbook 
(+ tax & shipping and handing) 
Includes gift card &direct shipping 
Call today to order 
888-670-9349 
Utah. 
As the outcome of the Great Alaskan Shoot-uut looms over the basketball program. it becomes readily apparent that success this season depends on the rapid development of the freshman players. Murphy, Graves and Swanagan will need to play beyond their years in basketball experience for Notre Dame to make any noise in the Big East. 
Senior Phil Hickey has shown signs of coming alive, averaging 10 points and seven rebound a contest and will be called upon to handle a heavy load in the conference schedule. 
Macleod has made an obvi­ous commitment to his fresh­man class, which could evolve into a highly experienced, over­achieving squad or an over­matchcd, over-whelmed team. 
in the bowl game. And it looks positive." 
According to Davie. the prospect of these two 9-2 foot­ball teams squaring off in the post-season makes the game the most attractive bowl matchup of the year. 
"Notre Dame is Notre Dame," said Yellow Jacket coach George O'Leary. 
"We're looking forward to the excitement of playing an institu­tion like Notre Dame. Their key is their quarterback. Jarious Jackson has had a tremendous season, and we hope they'm at full strength when we play them." 
But no matter what the cir­cumstances, the Gator Bowl affords this year's senior class one final opportunity to achieve a goal that has eluded the group for three years -a 10-win sea­son. 

Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r-----------, 
1 One Month , f IO Tanning 7 
I I
I I 
: Unlimited : : Bed : 
I T . or I s . 
: annmg :I : ess1ons :I 
: only $40.00 l : only $35.00 : 
L-----------J L-----------J 
Universi1y Commons Grape & McKinley Sou1h\and Plan1 
/,y UP Mall 11et1r KMart Ireland & Ironwood 
272-7653 256-9656 291-2000 

I m p o r t s 
Sweaters, Tapestries,Jewelry, Accessories Great Selection of Hemp jewelry & much more! Guatemala • Bali • Thailand • Muico • Ecuador • Brazil • India 
HUGE CLEARANCE SALE!! 
Free gift wifh every purchase!! 
<Oller wali• ••• tim• ••Ip 
Unbefie~able Bargain Corner! 
•Proceeds from this corner help send 4 Guatemalan children 

,•! 
~ 
~ 
MEN'S 

t)~~ &aa ~~~~ad~~ 
Courses in Chinese and Japanese Literature and Culture 
(Spring 1999) 
LLEA 250 (TH 2:00-3:15) Introduction to Chinese Literature 

LLEA 253 (HIST 221) (MWF 1 :55-2:45) Introduction to Chinese Civilization (This course will be taught here at Notre Dame, NOT in France!) 
LLEA 356 (TH 3:30-4:45) Mirrors of the Floating World 

LLEA 368 (TH 12:30-1 :45) Seit and Society in Modern Japanese Literature (NOTE: CLASS OFFERED 12:30-1 :45 NOT 13:30-1 :45) 
LLEA 370 (TH 3:30-4:15) 20th Century Chinese Literature 

11111 ¦ 


Broaden your education! Look bevond the familiar! 
Wome~'• 
Baake-c
BASKETBALL 


vs.
vs. IU 
Toledo 


Tues. Dec. 1 8:00pm 
Wed. Dec. 2 7:OOpm Support the Irish, l!Vear blue and gold. 
Tm·sJay, December 1, 1298 The Observer• SPORTS page I5 
[Please Recycle The Observer! ;;;~v~~rs defeat GT, 
-

J;oin GW on one of these exciting summer programs in the world's most fascinating cities. 
¦ Spanish Language in Madrid ¦ Theatre in Mulhouse, France ¦ Business Environment in China • International Business and Tourism Studies in Costa Rica • Business and Internation;il Affairs in London ¦ Paleoanthropology in China • Finance in Eastern Europe ¦ International Education in Syria and Jordan ¦ Human Resource Development in Eastern Europe ¦ Politics in Central Europe 
• International Human Rights Law in Oxford 
Or spend your summer in our Nation's Capital. Chome from over 700 courses on GW's campus in the heart ofWasbington, DC. 
Join GW's world-class faculty and other adven­turesome student~ in an enriching experience you 'l] never forget. 
CALL 202.994.6360 FOR DETAILS. 
GW is an equ.tl opporwnityl.lffirm.itivc .lction in,tirution. 
earn tourney bid 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sporu Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team will face Eastern Washington in the first round of the NCM tourna­ment Friday at 5::30 p.m. PST in Stanford, Calir., in an attempt to extend its season. 
The Ir.ish earned tlrnir seventh-straight trip to th11 NCAA tournament und1w head coach Debbie Brown by winning the Big East tournament, which secured them an automat­ic tourney bid. The Irish took first place with a 3-0 defeat of No. 1-seeded Georgetown Nov. 22. 
"We just have to take one match at a time, and that's all we can do," said Brown. "As soon as you start looking ahead to w~at comes next, you stumble and end up on the wrong end. 
Notre Dame ( 17-12) learned its opponent Sunday in the NCAA. Mountain Sub-Regional when the brackeL-; for the expanded 64-team NCAA tournament were announced. This will be the first-ever meeting betwerm thn Irish and the Eastern Washington Eagles. 
The Eagles, coached by Pamela Parks in her 17th sea­son, used a 24-5 overall record to claim an at-largo bid in the tournament. Senior and conference MVP Kim Exner leads the Big Sky Conference team with 5.35 kills per game and a .385 hitting percentage.The winner of the match between the Irish and the Eagles will take on the victor of the Stanford-Southeast Missouri State match on Saturday at 7 p.m. The Stanford Cardinal is seeded second in the mountain rngion, and is the defending NCAA champion. 
"We knew that wherever we were going to go," said senior captain Lindsay Treadwell, "we wnro going to havo a tough draw." 
Notre Dame has played the Cardinal four times, losing all four, with the most recent match a 0-3 loss in 19% to the No. 2 Cardinal. The Irish have never f'aced Southeast Missouri State. 
"I really don't know a lot about their individual players. I do know that they have a very strong program and a good record," said Brown. "llopefully we can neutralize their hitting a little bit with our blocking." 
The Irish arc hoping f'or the return to action of' sopho­more setter Denise Boylan who has been out with torn liga­menlc; in her right elbow for ovnr one month. She has been practicing some, and may be abln to play in the back row this weekend, but will likely be unable to block. 
-

You're approaching graduation and on the hunt for concrete information about potential employers. And in that search, 
you'll encounter mountains of information. Daunting amounts -from critical to trivial -that must be considered. Enter Arthur Andersen. We think you'lJ find our no-holds-barred, straight-answer approach a refreshing change, whether you're interested in Assurance and Business Advisory Services, Business Consulting, Global Corporate Finance or Tax and Business Advisory Services. 
You're in search of the truth. Arthur Andersen is where you'll find it. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN ALL SERVICE LINE PRESENTATION WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2ND • 7:00PM TO 9:00PM ATlHE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS­CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION
ARTHUR 

AUDITORIUM Open to Notre Dame & St. Mary's students interested in a summer internship with
ANDERSEN 
majors in: Accounting, Finance, CAPP, CS, CPEC, IE, ME or EE. Please bring a current resume. 
~ 1998 Ar1hur Andersen. All rights reserved. Equal oppor1unity Employer. 
f 
i 
I ­
l 
._... 
Tuesday, December I, 19"

page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
DEATH OF AN INNOCENT 
I went to a party, Mom, I remembered what you said. You told me not to drink, Mom, so I drank soda instead. I really felt proud inside, Mom, the way you said I would. I didn't drink and drive, Mom, even though the others said I should. 
I know I did the right thing, Mom, I know you are always right. Now the party is finally ending, Mom, as everyone is driving out of sight. As I got into my car, Mom, I knew I'd get home in one piece. Because of the way you raised me, so responsible and sweet. 
I started to drive away, Mom, but as I pulled out into the road, the other car didn't see me, Mom, and hit me like a load. As I lay there on the pave1nent, Mom, I heard the policeman say, the other guy is drunk, Mom, and now I'm the one to pay. 
I'm lying here dying, Mom. I wish you'd get here soon. How could this happen to me, Mom? My life just burst like a balloon. There is all this blood around me, Mom, and most of it is mine. I hear the medic say, Mom, I' 11 die in a short time. 
I just wanted to tell you, Mom, I swear I didn't drink. It was the others, Mom. The others didn't think. 
He was probably at the same party as I. The only difference is, he drank and I will die. 
Why do people drink, Mom? It can ruin your whole life. I'm feeling sharp pains now. Pains just like a knife. The guy who hit me is walking, Mom, and I don't think it's fair. I'm lying here dying and all he can do is stare. 
Tell my brother not to cry, Mom. Tell Daddy to be brave. And when I go to heaven, Mom, put "Daddy's Girl" on my grave. Someone should have told him, Mom, not to drink and drive. If only they had told him, Mom, I would still be alive. 
My breath is getting shorter, Mom. I'm becoming very scared. Please don't cry for me, Mom. When I needed you, you were always there . I have one last question, Mom, before I say good bye. I didn't drink and drive, so why am I the one to die? 
s~~ s~r1~ ~ ~. ~ Z>tm 't ~et "?~ ~ & ~. 


The Observer • SPORTS

Tuesday, December I, 1998 
opportunities. We really strug-ry, despite being on the short 
glccl trying to brrrnk the end. Tho Irish outshot the 
d!'fonse down, but them was Pilots 18-12 and held a 9-1
Soccer 
very little space to do any-advantage on corner kicks. continued from page 20 thing. I reel badly, especially Portland also had twice as for the seniors but at least many fouls (24). saves in nnt for the Pilots. I h · I · J>o1·tland rnoves on to f'ace
tlrny rnvc one c amp1ons 11p
"This was a very evnnly • 1 · t I I I t tc)p-se"d"d Nc,rth Carol1"na 1·11
nng. l was .1us. rea 1arc o ,, " plap,d match," lris!J head look them in the eye arter the Friday's NCAA semifinal coach Chris Pelrucolli said. ., game. while the Big East 
I. ct· 1 game.
I I I

"Tlw Port anc c e ens1~ H a As usual, Notre Dame domi-Champions' season comes to good job of squnnzing us out nated every statistical catego-an abrupt end. O (" any ro a I g~'(.::...).::...O.:..d....:..s.;_c.;_o;_r1_·n..:g.:....------------------------.. 
1999-2000 Assistant Rector Applications 
for 
University Residence Facilities Are Now Available 

Completed Applications must he 
submitted by February 12, 1999. 
For More Information, call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
International Summer Research 
Research Grants for Undergraduates 
Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
up to $3,000 
For more information, come to a meeting on Wednesday, December 2, 1998 at 5 :00 p.m. DeBartolo 118 
For further information, contact: Professor Michael Francis. 1-5203 (Hurley 110) 
page 17 

· • NCAA BASKETBALL 
Tigers post strong win over Highlanders 

Wideman finished with 11 points and eight mbounds. CLEMSON, S.C. Ryan Charles l~id Radford 
No. 24 Clemson scored the with 10 points. first 17 points and heJd Radford to 23 percent shooting No. 25 St. John's 97, from the field to rout the St. Francis 6:{ fl,.fg~l;~µders 70-3.7 Mondaynight>, Lavor Postc~ll scored 20 
All 12 players on the points as No. 25 St. .John's, Clemson roster scoted, led by coming off a pnir of close loss• Harold ,Jamison witl1 13. . es in the Preseason NIT, rout­
The 37 points were the ed St. Francis of New York 97­fewest ever scored by Radford. 63 Monday night. ltwas the seventh straight Hon Artest added 17 points game Cletnson(6·1) has held for the Red Storm (4-2). while its ppgo,nent to 60 points or Reggie .Jessie had 16 and Erick fewer,,th~ school's longest Barkley 14. sO£:h streak since the 1945-46 St. Francis (1-2) was led by season. Ray Minlend's 16 points. 
The Highlanders (3-2) Herbert Heyes added 13 and missed their first nine shots as Greg Nunn 12. Clemson opened the game St. John's, behh1d Tyrone > .~..···· 17-0 run, led by Grant's 11 rebounds, dominat•Ja n's eight poin,~. It took ed the boards 48-27. Radford more than seven min• The Red Storm have defeat· utes to score its first point. ed St. Francis 22 straight 
The Tigers, who finished times and hold a 55-11 advan• fifth in last week's Maui tage in the series. Clllsskin Hawaii, built a 36-13 Artest made four straight lead and Radford never got free throws and Jessie hit a closer than 19 the rest· of the pair of baskets during a 15-0 

run that gave St. .John's a 26-9 
· Ballard hlfa 3.pointer lead in the first hair. Grant's forJRadfo.td with 6:30 left to jumper gave St. John's its make i(56•37, but Clemson biggest load of the half, 34-13, finished the game with a 14-0 with 3:05 left. run. Freshman guards Will Minlend hit a pair of jumpers Solomon and Dustin Braddick as St. Francis op1med Urn sec­
scored five points in the ond half with eight straight ![spurt. points to make it 39-31. But sot,'S. Terrell McIntyre Postell had thre~~ baskets as St. ...• . .... fo of his 12 points ln John's responded with a 21-7 
th.e;;:fitst half, and Tom run to regain control. 
Future:---------­
~··~ 
. ' -. 

Old Kent Bank is part of a S15 billion financial services network that offers an ever-expanding menu of banking and non-bank­ing services, primarily in the Great Lakes region. Our customer-driven organization challenges our employ­ees while providing career opportunities that are rewarding and enjoyable. We are currently seeking: 
BRANCH MANAGEMENT TRAINEES 
Take the initial step to a retail banking career with our extensive trainingdrogram. You will enhance your skills in branch management, sales an operations. As you become familiar with our retail products and services, as well as commercial lending and trust services, you will assist in the staffing and management of an Old Kent branch, working through the branch system to increase exposure to customers and situations. The program is flexible in both structure and length, pro­viding you with the opportunity to develop your skills at an appropri­ate pace. 
CREDIT ANALYSTS 

New products and emerging technology have created opportunities in our Credit Training Program. II includes work as a Commercial Loan Analyst, dividing time between independent study, hands-on experi­ence and formal classroom training. You will develop and analyze credit information for a variety of loan types, prepare and present credit reports to loan officers or committees, monitor credit standing of current accounts and participate In customer sales calls. 
Old Kent offers a highly competitive compensation package, including an attractive salary, comprehensive medical/dental/life insurance, 401 (k) retirement plan, paid vacation and holidays, education assis­tance, banking plans and abundant opportunity for advancement. 
We are ideally located in Grand Rapids, MI, in the heart of Western Michigan. The city is exciting and affordable, with a relatively large size (500,000) but the feel of a small community. You're close to the Lake Michigan beaches, the northern Michigan woods and the attractions of Detroit and Chicago. 
ON CAMPUS INTER\"IEWS ALL DAY 
~ 

Call the Career Placement Office To Schedule Your Interview 
OLDl(ENT 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
l
I 
I 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December I, 1998 
¦ NATIONAL fOOTBi\ll LEAGUE 

Owens leads 49ers to win 
Associaced Press -----------~---­SAN FRANCISCO 
Jerry Rice complained about the San Francisco 49ers' erratic play, and offered to jump start the offense. Instead, it was Terrell Owens who pro­vided the spark. 
Owens caught a 79-yard touchdown pass from Steve Young and Garrison Hearst ran for 166 yards in 20 carries to go over J .000 yards rushing for the second straight season as San Francisco beat the New York Giants 31-7 Monday night for their 15th straight regular­season home win. 
But the win was costly. The 49ers lost star defensive tackle Bryant Young mid­way through the fourth quarter to a right leg injury. Replays showed the leg bent backwards as he collided with line­backf'r Ken Norton Jr. as they closed in for a tackle. 
The Giants (4-8) started fast but then faded, much like they have this season after winning the NFC East last year. Kent Graham had a 48-yard completion to Ike Hilliard on their first play and three plays later, Gary Brown bolted 11 yard;, up the middle for. a touchdown. 
New York, with the sec­ond -worst offensive rank­ing in the league, couldn't sustain its advantage against a 49ers team that fell behind for the seventh time in nine games. 
Owens, who !inished with five catches for 140 yards, turned a short flat pass from Young into a score to pull into a 7­all tie with 2:39 left in the first period. 
The fleet Owens, now perhaps the 49ers' most dangerous receiver, blew past Conrad Hamilton near the line of scrimmage and pulled f'ree of Sam Garnes' grasp at the 30. Suddenly, he was running free down the left sideline and into the end zone. 
After being held to three catches for 27 yards in last week's 31-20 win against New Orleans, an exasperated Rice said he felt left out of the offense and implied San francisco could reverse its sluggish starts by throwing more passes his way. He finished Monday night's game with three catches for 25 yards. 
The 49ers opened the game with a no-huddle for the first time this season and Young went to Rice several times early. Near the end of San Francisco's third series, Young tried to force the 
ur team· up riQ-w for the weekend touma­·•Q,tt Frid4y; Qec,. 4-at the Rolfs Recreation · tra.tionswill .be taken until Dec:. 2!?r Ulltil 
.inforrn~tlop, c@l RecSpoft$ at rtfltOO, 
t·M!-,., @r~ )r' •iN ·. ·.. :,·\ 
Weather the Holidays ... Stan Your '99 Christmas Oub Now! 
Atotd flnanclal storms. during the holidays by opening a Christmas Club Account today. 
This. account features: 
I 
.}COMPETITIVE DIVIDENDS ·MONTHLYSERVICE CHARGES 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Ohristmas Olub 
2 Convenient 
Campus Locations-
DOUGLAS ROAD OFFICE SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS 
(The Center Building) 
Plus our ATM at the Campus Bookstore 

•4 NOTRE DAME n&Q[I
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION . . 
For People. Not For Profit. Independent orthe University 


Tuesday, December I, 1998 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 

rOXTROT 

Cl 1998 Bdl ~111 ~ Um'l'IIUI Pn111 Synd1r.1le 
WH~ PEoPLE PREFER HERE'S A 


Check your personal papers and make sure everything is in order. You
PLASTIC FR1SSEES To BIG oNE. may find that you are a bit luckyREADY. 
CHoCoLATE CHIP oNES oPEN 


DILBERT 
Cl-HU HNA.NC.[AL OFHC\:R 
'<OU'RE PLANNING TO
t-::===================:::::-1 ~ ~ ., 
MA.KE CRrT[CI\L
@

1 NE£.0 ON£.·5ENTENC.E. 
~U0GET D(CI$lONS
~ .,

DESCRIPTION 5 OF EACH 
Bfl.5E.O ON il-ll\i r
~ 

01= YOUR PROJ'"ECTS. 
~ 


D­
.'!:. 

1---1~..6:L-.!....1--.....C=--.Ll.l---i~ 
'-------------.... ­
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  31 Hemming and  59 Montreal  
1 World Service (radio provider) 4 Pet (novelty item) e "My Lite on Trial" author 13 Mine product 14 Dog : paw : · horse: -­15 Lacking, with "of"  hawing 34 Charles Lamb, to readers 36 Exhibits scorn 37 Rot caused by bark beetles 40 Renaissance type 4t Course 42 ···-Aile (Adenauer) 43 Pulsate  denizens 62 Distance on a radar screen 63 Peter Lorre role Mr.-­64 Deception 65 Australian export 66 Effect of auto exhaust 67 Actor Mineo  
16 High-risk game  44 Zorro's marks  DOWN  
19 Plan  46 Leg bones  1 Tennis's Becker  
20 ·-­to differ" 21 Coral­22Gaze 23 Kmd of acid  so Message on a Wonderland cake S4Pac.'s counterpart  2 Main thrust 3 Jai alai basket 4 Showy-flowered shrub 5 1956-57  
25DUmb·-OX  57 Beach,  Wimbledon  
21 Republican  basically  champion Lew  
V.I.P Dick  58 Farmer's land  6 Charged  
particle  
7 Pertaining to  

the second­largest continent 
8 Good herder 

9 First lady 10 Plenty 1 t Miller beer 12 Brainstorm 15 Piece for two 11 Word repeated 
after "Que" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
bestowed by Queen Eliz. 23 Deep blue 
Waughs 



OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 3 ON 3 PLUS GOALIE • ONE DIVISION RINK IS WALLED AND NETTED • NO REFEREES WILL BE PROVIDED REGISTER ATEAM AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY. 12/2 
ecSports Office LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS TO ENTER olfs Sports Recreation Center 
1~6100 • http://www.nd.edu/... recsport 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
S,Mfl,JIIERE /J,/ /lh 


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Woody Allen, Richard Pryor, Bette Midler, Lee Trevino 
Happy Birthday: You must view your cup as being half-full -not half-empty -this year. If you tend to
.,, 

let life's little aggravations get to you,
,El, Jr, ,,,'t, 

expect to lose some ground. Howev­er, if you can find the good in every­thing that you encounter, you'll see 
~ ~\ ..,~ 
~ 

some amazingly satisfying outcomes. Optimism will be your guide to all
A~" /7:--m 

that you wish to achieve. Your num­
bers: 3, 5, 13, 26, 29, 38
~ 
,...)rr?, 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Find 
/~' 

a quiet spot where you can work dili­
gently on your own. Visitors may 
relieve the tension. Your ambitious 
mood may not go over well with loved ones. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
BILL AMEND 

Puzzle by Ed Early 
28 "Canterbury Tales" drink 29Gaelic 30 North Sea feeder 31 Handle text 32 Dr. Westheimer 33 Hollywood Boulevard sight 35 Electric guitar hookup 36 Location 38 Congeal 39 Stupor 45 Hmdu garment 
today. Get together with people who
IS BEYoND ME. WIDE. 

mentally stimulate you. 000
' 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be sure to pay attention to your mate. He or she may not feel as confident as you do about your relationship. Your fickle nature may cause jealousy. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be smart; don't let others dump their workload on you. If you're forceful in your own pursuits, no one will try to upset your day. Be open with superi­ors and you'll be rewarded. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make financial gains if you are pre· pared lo take a risk. This is a great
SCOTT ADAMS 


day to get out and enjoy an entertain• ing evening with friends or a lover. 
00
WOW. FIVE PI\GE.5 
WITHOUT UStNG A. 

Birthday Baby: You were born with optimism and positive force. Your abili· ty to make things happen will open up all sorts of unusual dvenues for you throughout your life. You are a doer, always willing to make changes in order to make things the best they can be. You're an asset to everyone you encounter. You'll always be a good and loyal friend and an exciting partner. 
1...-...J---::.&aL.>-....l..l:::.Mo..'--J...1"--~ 

Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join 
47 Scornful cries 54 Opposite of a 

The Observer
buzz cut
48Co. name ending 55 Pitfall 49 Monroe's 56 Moon of Jupiter successor 58 60's-70's 51 Dabbling ducks Japanese P.M. 
staff.
52 Craze so Zilch 53 Collectible Ford 61 Robespierre, e.g. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 (75it per minute) 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 


Weekend Indoor ~occer Tournament 
friday &~aturday, December 4 &5 6:00pm -Rolf~ ~port~ Recreation Center 
VIRGO (Aug, 23-Sept. 22): You 
can make favorable real-estate offers 
today. Your ability to put a deal 
together will surprise others. You can 
make money if you pursue your own 
business. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel and educational pursuits will help alleviate the stress you have been feel­ing. You need to tak<' tim<' to pamper yourself for a change. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct, 23-Nov, 21): You will find that doing odd jobs around the house will be successful and appreciated by loved ones. It's not the best day to visit relatives who get on your nerves. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Do not sign contracts or get involved in dubious financial deals and you'll have nothing to worry about. Use dis­cretion when talking to others. Gam­bling should not be considered. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Opportunities to make money may interfere with your personal plans. Try to ease the disappointment by making compensations. Let your lam· ily know that they do come first. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18): The advice you get today may be based on false information. Don't be too quick to respond to a plea for help. You may find that you're left with someone else's dirty laundry. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will enjoy gelling together with friends to share in special events that children have worked hard to pre­sent. Sit back and enjoy; you deserve a break. 0000 
11­
.. 


¦ The Irish volleyball 
¦ The Men's Basketball team will face Eastern 
team looks for a win in Washington in their 7th 
tonight's matchup straight NCAA tourna­
against Indiana ment appearance. 
University.

PORTS 
O THE 

Tuesday, December 1, 1998 BSERVER page 20 
¦ WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Portland spoils Irish bid for championship title 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Spons Edit0r 
All strC'aks aro meant to be broken. 
The fourlh-sceded Notre Dame women·s soccrr team (21-3-1) found that out in an unfortunate way on Saturday. as they were bounced from the NCAA Tournament with a 2-1 loss to fifth-seeded Portland (19-2-2). 
The Irish·s 45-game home unbeaten streak. their five­consecutive wins over the Pilots and their hop!'s for a fifth-straight trip to the NCAA semifinals. all came to an end in Saturday's NCAA quarterfi­nal loss at Alumni Field. 
The defeat also marked the first linw the Irish hav.-lost an NCM tournament game at home. 
Portland sophomore Vanessa Talbot was the differ­ence, as she scored the game winner with less than three minutes remaining in the con­test. Tara Koleski slipped the ball through the Irish defense and Talbot was able to take advantage. 
She gained control of the ball at the top of the box and beat Irish goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene. who charged the shot. 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


"There was a lot going on there," Talbot said. "TK [Tara Kuleski) slotted the ball to me and I was open in front of the goal." 
Beene stopped five shots on the afternoon. but rouldn't turn awav Talbot, who scored her 12th goal of the season. 
"This time it was our turn." Portland head coach Clive Charles said. "In the past few years. Notre Dame got the breaks. We have lost in nearly every conceivable way to them. Today, we got our foot on the ball at the right time and they didn't." 
Portland got on the board first when freshman Brooke O'Hanley won a ball and scored from 18 yards out into the right corner of the net at 27:44. 
"I know LaKeysia is stronger on high balls than she is on low balls," O'Hanley said. "I just put in on the ground near the post and it went in." 
Jenny Heft had the Ione goal for the Irish. Sophomore Anne Makinen headed Jen Grubb's free kick to Heft who volleyed it in for her school-record 28th goal of the season at 72:21. 
Angela Harrison had four 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Senior Monica Gerardo dodges a Michigan defender in an earlier NCAA tournament victory. Notre Dame was 
see SOCCER I page 17 unable to keep its 45-game home win streak alive, however, as the Irish lost to Portland in the quarterfinals. 
Irish climb to seventh in AP poll 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sporrs Edit0r 
The seventh-ranked Notre Dame women's basketball team (5-0) has matched its best start in school-history with recent wins over Illinois and San Francisco. 
Senior captain Sheila McMillen turned in a 20-point performance at the Joyce Center in last Tuesday's game against Illinois to become the 14th Irish player to reach the 1.000-point plateau. The Irish went on to defeat No. 24 Illinois 101-92, thanks to the clutch free throw shooting of McMillen, who went 4-for-4 from the charity stripe, with less than a minute to play. 
Guard Niele Ivey led the Irish with 22 points on 8-of-16 shooting and Ruth Riley had yet another double-double with 21 points and 12 rebounds. The sophomore center was limited to just 23 minutes of play due to foul trouble. 
Danielle Green was the other Irish player to reach double digits, as she pournd in 15 points. 
Illini forward Susan Blauser led all scorers with 26 points and helped pull Illinois within three points late in the game. 
see IRISH/ page 12 


The Observer/Liz Lang Niele Ivey led the Irish with 22 points against 24th ranked Illinois last Tuesday night. 
¦ FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame accepts Gator Bowl invitation 
ByALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
It's official. The Irish will be ringing in the New Year in Jacksonville, Fla., site of the Toyota Gator Bowl. 
Notre Dame athletic director Michael Wadsworth accepted the Jan. 1 Bowl invitation just hours after a conference call with the Mike Tranghese and Wadsworth agreed to give Notre Dame access to the Gator or Insight.com Bowls over the Big East's No. 2 team. In a four-year period, the Irish, if selected, can attend the Gator Bowl twice and Insight.com Bowl once.Without such an agreement where would the 9-2 Irish have wound up this 
year? 

conference commis­sioners and Bowl represen­tatives released N o t r e 
Dame
from a BCS at-large bid. The No. 16 Irish will take 
'I'M VERY PROUD TO 
ACCEPT (THE INVITA­TION), £SPECIALLY TO PLAY AGAINST A FINE OPPONENT 
G T ,
LIKE EORGIA ECH. 
MICHAEL WADSWORTH A TIILE71C DIRI£TO/i 
"At the bus stop," joked Wadsworth. before adding, "I don't know where," on a more serious note. 
On the heels of Saturday's 10-point loss to USC, the Gator Bowl invite may have seemed 
like a formality, while a more serious question lingered: will Jarious Jackson 

on a Georgia Tech team ranked as high as 12th, the first team Bob Davie faced as Notre Dame head coach, in a 12:30 p.m. con­test on NBC. 
'Tm very proud to accept [the invitation], especially to play against a fine opponent like Georgia Tech," said Wadsworth. 
The seeds for the invitation were ac:tually sown months ago, when Big East commissioner be healthy by New Year's Day? 
"Everyone responds dillerently to rehab," said lJaviP-. "But Bmmy Guilbeaux had the same injury versus Michigan State, and he bounced back. We're expecting Jarious to play. He suffered the samn type of injury to the other knee in high school. So we're hoping to have Jarious Jackson 
see BOWL / page 14 

vs Indiana University at Ohio Seate 
• • .
Today, 8 p.m. ~ Friday, 7 p.m. NCAA Tournamenr vs Eastern Washington 
SPORTS 
ATA 

Notre Dame Invitational @) at Stanford vs Toledo Thursday -Saturday Friday, 5:30 p.m. Tomorrow 7 p.m. 10 a.m.
GLANCE 






