----~-~~--~--~ --~----------~-~-~ -------------~----~~-­
04..""711~? <>f !4i 
• The College of En named a new dean for '98~'99. 


pg. 9 


Friday, March 27, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. .114 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'I!, ,,'• 1!.,

.,
:. 
.. 
!! 
Death From Above?
li II 
I•
t'
J
;i I II
'TT's NOT A MATTER 
l
~ OF "IF" BUT IT'S A II 
MATTER OF "WHEN. '" \I ,III,,
JAMES SCOTTI 
II
SPACEWATCII AsTRONOMER 
II,, ii 
II 
LEFT: ARTIST DON DAVIS REPRE­
SENTS HIS IMAGE OF THE DESTRUCTION OF EARTH BY AN 
ASTEROID. 
IMAGE COURTESY OF NASA BELOW: ARTISTIC DEPICTION OF THE CREACTION OF THE WORLD. IMAGE COURTESY OF TERRENCE REITIG 

Spacewatch program studies and catalogs potentially hazardous near-Earth asteroids 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY ter existed only in small, widely dispersed parti­Assistant News Editor cles. It was collisions between these particles that caused the formation of Earth and the other 
In early March, scientists of the Spacewatch planets in the solar system, Rettig explained. program at the University of Arizona made "Collisions like these formed 'planetesimals,' headlines as they announced that a near-Earth which developed into the larger modern planets asteroid, termed "1997XF11 ,'' would cross the as the colliding particles stuck together," he said. Earth's orbit and come within 30,000 miles of Near-earth asteroids -those that travel with­the planet, with a collision possible but unlikely. in 1.3 AU (one AU, or astronomical unit, is equiv­
Later. more accurate calculations by scientists alent to 93 million miles, according to Rettig)­at NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab revealed that the are the type of asteroids studied by Spacewatch, destruction of Earth by collision with an asteroid which observes the skies in the hopes of cata­would not occur any time soon, though such a loging all projectiles that may collide with the collision would hardly be a rare astronomical Earth. At present 473, NEAs have been discov­occurrence. ered, fewer than one-tenth of the projected total 
"Things like this happen all the time, just not that exist. this 'big,"' explained Terrence Rettig, professor "Spacewatch is the name of a group at the of astronomy. University of Arizona's Lunar and Planetary 
Prior to the existence of the solar system, mat-
see ASTEROIDS I page 4 
·' 
ii 
,.•' 
_·1 


Former NO football player indicted in point-shaving 



The Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
On the eve of college basket­ball's showcase event, the sport was rocked by another point­shaving scandal Thursday, this time at Northwestern -a school known for brains more than bet­ting lines. 
Federal indictments charged former Wildcat starters Kenneth Dion Lee and Dewey Williams and two others with fixing the outcome of three basketball games during the 1994-95 sea­son. A former Wildcat football player was accused in a separate indictment of running a book­making operation on the Northwestern campus. 
It was the latest in a string of gambling cases involving college basketball players since the 

light on college Pendergast basketball was brightest -two days before the Final Four in San Antonio. 
"It's a bomb ready to explode. It can happen to anybody," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. 
"You wouldn't even know about it until it happened." 
Other point shaving-scandles hit Arizona State and Tulane. Two years ago, 13 Boston College football players were suspended for betting on college and pro football and major league baseball games. 
"We should not be surprised this is occuring," caid Cedric Dempsey, executive director of the NCAA. "Gambling is as big an addiction on our campuses as alcohol, and it reflects what is going on in our society." 
But Northwestern is known more for academic success than sports. Although the Wildcats made the Rose Bown as Big Ten football champions three seasons ago, they rarely have produced winning basketball teams. The 1993-94 club that went to the NIT is the school's last basketball team with a winning record, 15­14. 
Under the indictments announced at a news conference, Lee and Williams were charged with point-shaving, while Kevin Pendergast and Brian Irving were charged with conspiring to fix the outcome of three games -at home against Wisconsin and Penn State, and on the road against Michigan. 
Pendergast is a former kicker at Notre Dame who led the Irish in scoring in 1993, said Notre Dame sports information direc­tor John Heisler. 
Pendergast and Irving, who both now live in California, were accused of betting on Northwestern's opponents and persuading others to follow suit at casinos in Reno, Nev., Las Vegas and elsewhere, according to the U.S. attorney. 
The Wildcats lost each game by at least 14 points and failed to cover the point spread against the Badgers and Nittany Lions. Northwestern finished the sea­son 5-22 under coach Ricky Byrdsong. 
"We have no idea if its true or 
see GAMBLING I page 6 

~---­

Friday, March 27, 1998
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The titne for help is now 
This week President Bill ""':'!"!!!!!!'!!"!!!!!!'!!"!!!!!!'!!"!!!!!!'!!"!!!!!!'!!"!!!!!!'!~ 

Clinton is doing something 
that the leaders of the 
United States should have 
done ynars ago. lie is tour­
ing Africa and promising 
greater futurn support to 
those countrins. 
Tlw richest nation in 
the world helping the Matt Loughran 
poornst nations; that is News Editor 
the way that the concept 
of international relations is supposed to work. 
The Senate's IMF bill (see story on page 5) is 
another good step toward helping tho govern­
ments of third world countries provide for the 
wclfam of thnir people. Granted, the 
International Monetary Fund is not an automat­
ic relief fund for poorer countries. but it is one 
way that those countries can get the monetary 
assistam~e they need 
Perhaps Clinton should focus on the more 
substantive issues in the countries that he visits. 
lie should not go to the war-torn area around 
Lake Victoria (Kenya, Uganda, and Hwanda) 
and talk about putting computers in schools. A 
large number of the people in these countries 
are subsistence farmers and are more worried 
about the success of their crops than if the local 
school gel<; a computer. Many live without elec­
tricity or rurming water. All of these are issues 
that can be solved by a stable government that 
cares about its people, which should be the real 
goal of U.S. monetary intervention. 
That is not to say that the U.S. should go into 
these situations and try to fiwce the government 
out if it will not cooperate. But money is a very 
influential tool. Noarn Chomsky wrote that 
money, specifically from American corporate 
interests. drives U.S. foreign policy. lie may be a 
bit paranoid in his assumptions, but he is basi­
cally correct. A little money goes a long way in 
foreign relations. 
If the U.S. would spend its time and eiTort on 
improving the plight of those East African coun­
tries that seem to perennially be in need, the 
world would be better oll' for it. Send relief to 
these countries and monitor their progress 
while they are not at the moment of their worst 
need. Waiting until thousands die of natural 
starvation in Ethiopia or of forced starvation in 
Somalia is not aeceptable. 
The instant question asked of such a sugges­
tion is, "Who will pay for that'?" 
The answer? The American people. 
"But taxes will go up." 
Maybe, but is that so bad? The people of the 
United Statns have the incrndible privilege of liv­
ing in a country where the lowest tax rates in 
the world can produce the same amount or 
more money than much higher rates in other 
countries. 
Most of the people in this country who corn­
plain about taxes am those people that have the 
money to pay them comfortably. If the taxes arc 
grossly ell"ecting your way of life. then I agree. 
But I challenge you to prove how you cannot live 
with high taxes. 
Tax day is corning up next month and the 
whining and groaning will start. 
Maybt! your rnonny will only go toward build­
ing a topography center in the middle of North 
Dakota that some senator attaehed to a bill 
about the water purity of the Chesapeake Bay. 
But maybe, just maybe, that money will be fun­
neled into a project that helps Hwandans stabi­
lize thnir economy and governmnnt, giving sup­
port to the needy of this world before they really 
need it again. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Emmer Malloy  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Kathleen O'Brien  Tom Roland  
Sports  Production  
Joe Cavato  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi.1hcd Monday through Friday except during exam .md vac.uion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associarcd Pres~. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
1

c--~,,« /0utside the Dome 
----\.. ~.$·--~,\ . . 
\/ • Comp1/ed from U-Wtre reports 
Columbia focuses on counseling in wake of brutal slaying 
NEW YORK 
Following Edmund Ko's arrest Saturday for the murder of law student Lynda Hong, Columbia has focused on minimizing the killing's eiTect on stu­dents. 
Virgil Henzulli, Associate Vice President for Public Affairs, said Columbia has set up several ~services to help students deal with the tragedy, including counseling services and an information hotline. 
University Counseling and Psyehologieal Services has set up extended office hours. The service was open on the Saturday and Sunday immediately following Hong's murder, aceording to Hiehard Erichler. director of the counseling service. 
Erichler has worked as counseling services director sinee 1986 and said he could not say if the effect of Hong's murder was any more severe on stu­dents than similar past tragedies. 
• COLORADO UNIVERSITY 

Students seek more ethics awareness 
BOULDER, Colo. 
CU student lawmakers want the university to be more 
discriminating when it comes to selecting its bedfellows. 
Spurred by reports of alleged human-rights violations by 
Nike manufacturers overseas, the CU Student Union is 
calling for administrators to scrutinize companies for 
human-rights violations before signing contracts with 
them. CU has a six-year. $6 million contract with Nike. 
The student union passed a resolution on first reading last 
week that mges administrators to create a committee on 
licensee ethics and conduct in order to screen prospective 
partners with the university for ethieal and legal viola­
tions. The committee would consist of CU faculty, staff and 
students, aecording to the resolution. "Because the poli­
cies and conduct of companies that we are in contract 
with directly reHects on the university, it is necessary that 
we hold these companies responsible for their actions," 
said Amy Kosanovich, vice president of the student union 
legislative council. 
• JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY 

President steps down after 27 years 
HARRISONBURG, Va. 
lie was there 27 years. outlasting eight governors and 
adding 19 new degree programs. He was responsible for the 
construction of 37 buildings on campus. And yet, it took a 
mere 20 minutes for Ronald Carrier's presidency to end 
graeefully on the steps of Wilson Hall yesterday before more 
than 500 students, faeulty, staff, administrators and local 
leaders. Fighting back tears, with his wife by his side, 
JMU's fourth president retired. Carrier will remain presi­
dent until his successor is hired. but will not stay on beyond 
Dec. 31. "Everything changes. Even the things that arc most 
precious to you will change," he said. "I have served as 
president of James Madison University for 27 years. That's a 
long period of time by any stn~tch of measurement." Carrier 
covered a myriad of topics in what seemed like an extremely 
short speech, reflecting on his time in office and thanked the 
number of people he's become friends with over the years. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
,.,_.., ''' 

H  L  
I  
Friday  ~  71  54  
Saturday  ~ ,,,,,  66 46  
Sunday  ~'  66 54  
Monday  ~  69 47  
)  
Tue~day  .  ~  ~52  47  

s~.;......."~~...~,..v...... -~ 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, March 27. 40s lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
"""'lr"'r ....a.....a... .....ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1998 Accuwealher, Inc 
Pressurs 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY V1s Assocrated Press 
__ )  Albany  68  48  
Billings  52  30  
q,Q.~pc@Q~~u  Boston  75  52  
Showers  T-slorms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pl. Cloudy  Cloudy  Charlotte  80  52  
Vra Assoctated Press GraphicsNel  Detroit  74  56  

~.::..·.~-~ ..~-~~.:-;,.i•"•....::::--"'· i!'.!__ 'fl=(' .~' ~~"-... ·~~£;-_~f' .. ~ ' .u c-~ . io.<E,.....-.4.
/ .. ~ ­


Erichler could not specify exaetly how many students he has seen, but he said the number of students corning in to talk has increased. His office usually sees 100 students per day. 
"Students are coming in with an 
• PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 

4 indicted in marijuana protest trial 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Four of the five smokers charged along with retired pro­
fessor Julian Heicklen in his marijuana protest Feb. 12 
went before District Justice Allen Sindair Wednesday in 
their attempt to reverse current marijuana laws. 
University students Jennifer Corbett and Andy Burke and 
State College residents Jleicklen and Kenneth Keltner 
were ordered to stand trial yesterday on charges of mari­
juana possession. Burke was bound over on two counts of 
possession while the three others have one count pending 
against them, according to court documents. The arraign­
ment for the four will be held April 20, the pretrial hear­
ing will be held in May and the trial is set for June, the 
court administrator's office said. The fifth person charged 
during the February protest, Alan Gordon, had his prelim­
inary hearing March 11. Gordon was bound over on 
charges of possession of a controlled substance and drug 
paraphernalia, according to court documents. A trial date 
has not been set. 

• UN!VERS!TY OF MICHIGAN 35 students join defense in lawsuit 
ANN i\RBOH, Mieh. 
In another response to the attacks on the university's use of race as a factor in its admissions procedures, morn than 35 students plan to file a motion today to beeome defendants in a lawsuit targeting the Law Sehoul's admis­sions policies. The students argue that the interests of those who would be most affected by the elimination of affirmative action at the university will not be adequately represented by the current defendants in the lawsuit. "Wn think that having an individual voice for thn affected par­ties is absolutllly essential so that our c~onc~nrns arn pl'l!­sented to the court," said Shanta Drivm·. tlw main c:oordi­nator of the intervention into tlw lawsuit. !\ eoalition of students, who eall themselves Citizcms for Affirmative Action's Preservation, filed a motion in Detroit Federal Court last month to intervene in a similar lawsuit filed against the college of literature, seient~l! and the arts. 
Hartford  70  48  Omaha  63  47  
Houston  82  56  St. Louis  74  54  
Miami  82  70  St. Paul  58  42  
Nashville  79  56  Seattle  47  35  
Newark  79  55  Tucson  70  46  

amalgamation of eoncerns," Erichler said. "They may not have known the person who was killed, but it may reawaken old wounds." 
Students are primarily facing feelings of grief. which am harder to oven~ome than feelings of fear, Eriehler said. 
"Bereavement cannot be eased," Erichler said, "it has to be gone through. Diil'erent people handle diiTer­ent cases over time. !Counseling snr­vices] can listen and facilitate so a stu­dent can do it on his own." 
The University has also focused on security eoneerns which have arisen since Friday's incident. 
Jimmy Agriantonis lives next door from where Hong was killed, and he said he is not eoncernnd about his sali~­ty. 
"1 always know there is some kind of security threat, but I !iJel really safe in the area," Agriantonis said. "I don't feel like my life is in any danger at all." 



......,.._..-~~~~-----~­

Friday, March 27, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
page 3 


Construction on the West Quad Eck Center is proceeding at a rapid pace. 
GET RID OF YOUR OLD SHOES... 


REUSE 
' ' 


I I I
, 




student government 
The Problem;» Old Shoes. 
The Solutionil Turn 'em into something else. 
Student Government and Nike are collecting used or unwanted athletic shoes of any brand, and then we,re going to grind them up and give them new life as athletic surfaces and Nike products 

The Goal. 
To collect 2000 pairs ot shoes...the number needed to make an entire Reuse-A-Shoe basketball court. 
Collection Sites:  
• Residence Halls  
• Hesburgh library  
• Loftus  
• Rockne  
\ .,  • Decio  

BROUGHT TO YOU THROUGH THE EFFORTS OF: 

J't..: 

student governmen~ 
•
Turtle Creek(#1638) •Campus View(#1828) 

•
Lafayette (# 16) 

•
Rolfs Rec Center 

• 
Stu. Govt.(203 Lafun) 



Eck complex to house student, alumni groups 
By FINN PRESSLY 
News Writer 
Although its official ground­
breaking was not even a year 
ago, the steep roofs and Gothic 
towers of the new Eck Center 
have already begun to punctu­
ate the West Quad skyline. 
When completed, the com­plex will consist of two build­ings on Notre Dame Avenue. The structure closest the street will house the headquarters of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the new Notre Dame Visitors Center. 
The larger building will be the new Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The new bookstore, to be managed by Follett College Stores, will be twice the size of the existing facility on South Quad. 
In addition to its increased size, the store will have a dif­ferent format. While clothing and Notre Dame paraphernalia will still be offered, the new shop will focus primarily on selling books and academic 

Notre Dame Pre-Law Society General Meeting 
Freshmen & Sophomores 
Date: March 30 (Monday) Time: 7:00 P.M. Place: Law School-Rm 120 
Guest Speaker will be 



Dean David Link 
Notre Dame Law School··· 

TOPIC: Preparing for a Career in Law 


materials. 
"We want people to come in 
the front door and see nothing 
but books," said Michael Smith, 
director of Facilities 
Engineering. Smith also drew a 
comparison between the new 
bookstore and franchise book­
stores such as Barnes & Nobles 
Booksellers and Borders Books 
and Music. 
This change comes as a response to Recommendation 17 of the University's Colloquy for the Year 2000, which calls for "a first-class academic bookstore" that features "a full range of scholarly offerings." 
The Eck Center is expected to be fully operational in January or February 1999; when it opens for business the existing bookstore facility will be con­verted to office space. Campus Ministry and First Year of Studies are among the organi­zations expected to move in. 
Frank Eck, a 1944 alumnus, underwrote construction of the new facility with a $10 million gift to the university. 


...-----------.-~---------~-.......-----.----~----·­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
near-Earth asteroids were origi­tions he likened nally part of this asteroid belt, to a "nuclear




Asteroids 
but were forced out of it by a winter." He combination of the gravitational explained that
continued from page 1 
forces of Jupiter and collisions this would pre­with other asteroids in the belt, vent the growthLaboratory," the Spacewatch the National Space Science Data of crops andweb site explains. "The primary Center~s asteroid fact sheet stat­other foodgoal is the study of the statistics 
ed. sources, and
of asteroids and comets in order 
At present, 473 near-Earth famine would
to investigate the collisional evo­asteroids have been discovered, be the actuallution of the solar system ... The according to Scotti. cause of most of 
protection of the Earth from 
The large size of 1997XF11 -the deaths asso­
asteroid impact is also an 
possibly up to one mile in diam­ciated with theimportant goal." 
eter -merited its classifkation asteroid.
/\steroids like the 1997XF11, as one of 108 "potentially haz­"It's not a
discovered by Spacewatch ardous asteroids," or PHAs. matter of 'if,'astronomer James Scotti. are 
These asteroids are continually it's a matter ofthe "leftovers" of' planet forma­monitored because the patterns 'when,"' saidtion, Hettig explained. These of their orbits reveal that the Scotti, referringrocky, metallic bodies are pre­asteroids have the· potential to to the likelihood vented from colliding and form­come dangerously close to the that an asteroiding into a tenth planet by the Earth in the future, explained large enough togravitational forces of Jupiter scientists at the Harvard­cause a significant global impact the high pressures and temper­asteroid is discovered a week, aand are instead referred to as Smithsonian Center for would hit the earth. "A one kilo­atures generated by impact, or year or even a decade before its "minor planets" because of their Astrophysics in a press release. meter asteroid hits the earth they melt and recombine with scheduled impact, humanity can
small size, according to the 
"(The effects a meteorite has every few million years; the rocks on the surface, according "forget it," claiming that at leastHawaiian Astronomical Society. 
on the Earth] depend on the chances are about one in to the Hawaiian Astronomical a few decades would beThe majority of the tens of size, velocity, and where it hits," 300,000 that one will hit during Society. required to prepare to usethousands of asteroids orbit the said Rettig. "Models show that if the average person's life," he Scotti's 1997XF11 will deflection techniques. 
sun every three to six years in it hits in some areas, like the explained. approach the earth in 2002 at a Scotti also said that other,an elliptical pattern between the Eastern or California coast, it Small meteorites hit the sur­distance of approximately 5. 9 non-nuclear methods are being
planetary orbits of Mars and 
could cause a tsunami of a mag­face of the Earth about once million miles before its closest developed, including a "mass
.Jupiter. This congregation of 
nitude that could destroy every decade, but most are foreseeable approach, projected driver," which throws rocks on·asteroids is referred to as the Florida. Smaller ones burn up in never recorded because they to occur on Thursday, October the back of the asteroid to pro­"asteroid belt." 
the atmosphere." land either in the sea or in 26, 2028. This asteroid will miss pel it, much like the system thatScientists believe that most 
Like thousands of students hefore him. Jordan knows the value of an associate's degree from Holy Cross College. It's a value measured in personal attention. Whether it's a little extra help with a history paper or guidance selecting the right courses for his plans to transfer to Notre Dame. 
With its challenging curriculum, new residential life program and low student-teacher ratio, Holy Cross provides a great start for college success. And when Jordan graduates with his associate's degree, he will have fulfilled many of the requirements for a Notre Dame degree. (As a Holy Cross student. he already takes advantage of many of Notre Dame's resources.) 
Holy Cross College. Small classes. A caring and accessihle faculty. The personal attention you need to he successful. 
K TI ~ IHILY ; ~~;CHOSS 
TICkets available

~~COLLE(;E 
thu"""""~

Right for you. Right from the start. 
(2!9) 272-7979 

1'.0. Uox ]OH • Notre llamc, IN 46556 
or Heartland 

(219! 239-!1400 • FAX (219)233-7427 
E-mail: vdukc@he<·-nd.cdu Wch site: http://ww".hn·-nd.edu 
222S. Michigan • South Bend · £2L9.}234.-5200 

Photo Courtesy of Terrence Rettig The Barringer Meteor Crater in Arizona is 1.2 kilometers in diameter and 183 meters deep. It was created 50,000 years ago by a meteorite composed primarily of nickel and iron, which probably survived intact until impact, when it was pulverized and vaporized. The explosion from the impact was equivalent to detonating 15 million tons of TNT. 
Asteroid Disaster Facts 
•When 
astronomers carry out searches, they typically find even threatening astroids decades to centuries before their actual impact with the Earth. 

•A 
diameter of about a mile is near the threshold for Qlobal disaster. The impact


, 
of an object thts size with the Earth would 
release a million megatons of energy 
and would probably lead to the death of 
hundreds of millions of people. 
•Most 
of the asteroids that could strike the Earth and cause aglobal catastrophe have not yet been found. 

•If 
an unknown asteroid should hit the Earth, there would likely be no warning. The first signs of the danger would be a flash of light and shaking ground. 


The Observer!Tom Ho an 
Many scientists believe that remote regions like Antarctica the Earth by 0.00638 AU (about moves the space shuttle. In this one of the "bigger" asteroids to where their impact is not recog­600,000 miles) on that date -way, scientists would direct the collide with the Earth was nized. /\steroids with a diameter about twice the distance to the movement of the asteroid. Other responsible for the destruction of over one kilometer land moon -if current calculations possibilities indude using lasers of the dinosaurs. Los Alamos, approximately once every mil­are correct. Other close encoun­or focusing sunlight, both of New Mexico astronomer Jack lion years, according to the July ters will take place in 2078 (7.5 which may have ell'ects similar Hills calculated that if the 1994 edition of Background million miles), 2090 (4.2 million to those of a nudear weapon. 1997XF11 hit the earth, it Information for Science miles), and 2095 (1.3 million If techniques to control the would create a crater 30 kilo­Teachers. miles), scientists said. motion of the asteroid an~ devel­meters in diameter and a doud Once landing, these mete­In the event that a meteor was oped, Scotti believes that these of dust that would blot out the orites form impact craters; the discovered to be on a collision may be utilized to direct the sun for weeks; the collision large number of such craters on course with Earth, Scotti said asteroid for many different pur­would occur at 38,000 miles per the surfaces of other planets that deflection techniques are poses. hour and the explosion on provide ample evidence for the possible. "If we can control it. we can impact would be 20 times the continuous pelting of heavenly "If a meteor is going to hit the put it in orbit for a space sta­force of an atomic bomb, bodies by asteroids. Such evi­Earth, you don't want to shatter tion, mine it for its resources, according to an article in Time dence, however, is not as abun­it,'' he explained. "If you use it to collect solar power in Magazine. dant on the Earth's surface, explode a nuclear weapon about space or bring back the whole 
Scotti explained that the colli­where erosion and weather can one kilometer away, and the thing," he explained. "It's easier sion of a large asteroid with the hide or destroy craters. blast radiation and heat will to get to and from than the earth would not be the direct When large meteorites impact vaporize some of the rock on the moon; moon travel requires lots cause of most of the resulting with the earth, the remnants of asteroid, causing it to fly ofT and of energy and is more expen­destruction; instead, the debris the meteorites themselves often push the asteroid the other sive. Asteroids don't have any and dust propelled into the do not survive the collision. way." gravity, so its easier to get atmosphere would cause condi-Instead, they are vaporized by But he also stated that if the back." 


Friday, March 27, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Saddam's Iraqi palace is searched by UN inspectors 
In the first test of a U.N. agreement forged to avert a military strike against Iraq, weapons inspectors spent eight hours Thursday going over parts of a presidential estate previously declared off­limits. One diplomat, Horst Ilolthoff of Germany, described Iraqi cooperation as "fantastic, absolutely posi­tive" Accompanied by diplomats from 20 countries, U.N. arms inspectors visited President Saddam Hussein's Radwaniyah Palace, a complex estimated to be about 6.9 square miles. The palace is the largest of eight presidential sites from which Iraq pre­viously had barred inspectors. elaiming them to be symbols of national sovereignty. 
Colombian guerillas take Americans hostage 
BOGOTA, Colombia 
Leftist guerrillas were holding four Americans and an Italian kidnapped at a roadblock on a highway south of the capital, their leader said Thursday. The government said at least 30 people were taken hostage. The Americans-three men and a woman­were on a bird-watching trip when the rebels captured them Monday about 35 miles south of Bogota. The Italian was in a separate car. "We have four Americans and we have an Italian" said Commander Romana, the local leader of the country's largest rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. The guerrilla commander gave the interview accompanied by at least several dozen other rebels on the outskirts of El Calvario, a town near the kid­napping site in rugged mountains. He issued no demands for the foreigners' release. 
Fire kills 25 Kenyan girls 
MOMBASA, Kenya 
A fire raced through a school dormitory near the Indian Ocean port of Mombasa early Thursday, killing at least 25 school­girls and injuring 29 others as they strug­gled to unlock doors. An electrical short was believed to have caused the fire at the Bombululu Secondary School where 144 girls had been sleeping. Most of the vic­tims died of burns; others died when the wooden roof collapsed or were crushed in the stampede to escape. At dawn, rescuers gathered the charred bones of the 15-and 16-year-olds and placed them in body bags. Weeping parents gathered outside the dor­mitory, now a skeleton of blackened bricks. 

S&P 500: Composite1100.80 Volume: 
-1.13 731,810,770
8846.89 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
I UMI!:\::i:l llrHB ·~~ rUU.ISGE 1 !:i61~ l!BI!::E 
LEAK·X ENVIR  LEAK  46.43  0.812  2.562  
SONIC SOLUTIONS  5NIC  37.65  0.953  3.484  
BLOWOUT ENTMT  BLWT  37.50  0.562  2.062  
jANUS AMERICA  JAG I  33.33  1.000  4.000  
INITIO INC  INTO  32.14  0.562  2.312  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
IPS INTI. INC-WTA MNYCW 47.73 1.3125 1.438 IPS INTL-SR AI'F MNYCP 41.-16 2.125 3.000 SUMITOMO BNK CAL SUM I 24.26 12.250 38.250 INTERGROUP CORP IGP 24.04 12.500 .19.500 INSTRUMENT 1.-~DR II.ABY 22.92 0.688 2.312 

4 Indonesians killed in camp riots 
AFP Photo 

Indonesian women immigrants look out the back of a police truck on their way to deportation from Malaysia. Riots broke out in at 
least four Malaysian detention camps yesterday, leaving four dead. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
SEMENYIH DETENTION 
CAMP, Malaysia 
Indonesians at a detention camp for illegal aliens rioted and set fire to their barracks yesterday as police pre­pared to deport them. At least four people died. 
One policeman and three Indonesian detainees were killed during predawn fight­ing at the camp 25 miles south of the capital, Kuala Lumpur, police spokesman Ghazali Amin said. Thirty­four others were injured in the melee, which started at midnight Wednesday, he said. 
A human rights group, 

SURARM, said at least five Indonesians were killed. 
People living near the camp said that fires were set inside throughout the night, and that several min­utes of shooting ensued when police finally tried to enter. The witnesses said they saw plastic police shields covered with blood. 
Riots were reported in at least three other detention camps yesterday. Malaysia's 10 detention camps for ille­gal aliens have been badly overcrowded since the gov­ernment began a crackdown against undocumented workers-an increasing problem in Asia's economic crisis. 
Malaysian authorities have deported nearly 19,000 illegal aliens since January. Of Malaysia's 8 million labor force, 3 million are migrant workers, half of them Indonesians. 
Ghazali confirmed the rioters were from Aceh, on the northern tip of the Indonesian island of Sumatra. Aceh is one of three regions in Indonesia where separatists are fight­ing for independence. 
Indonesian troops launched a major campaign against the secessionist rebels in 1990-92. Human rights groups at the time complained of widespread killings and torture by the military. 
The Acehnese in Malaysia received asylum several years ago after the United Nations certified them as refugees. 
Ghazali said the govern­ment was now targeting them for deportation and 282 had been taken from the Semenyih camp. 
"They have been staying here too long," he said. 
SUARAM, calling on the United Nations and Red Cross to intervene, said there were at least 290 Acehnese refugees in the Semenyih camp "who are in imminent danger of return­ing to Aceh, where they risk torture." 


~ ~-----------~--------...,.---.-~ -----~---· ~~-~--------~--•-?..........,....--~~-~­
--.._,.---.._ __ -__,...--__.------....-----.--·­
~~--~-· ~---------~~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 27, 1998 
GaiDbling 
continued from page 1 
not," Byrdsong told WGN-TV in Chicago. "Sure, if it's true you're saddened by it." 
The government said l'nndergast paid Lee $4000 to fix the Pr.nn State game. Prosecutors would not disclose how much more was involved in tlw alleged payoffs, other than to say the players got nothing for the Miehigan game because they failed to beat the point spread. 
The government said $10,000 was wagered on that game by the two accused gamblers, but would not say how much money was involved. 
"Unfortunately, student-ath­letes are vulnerable to the temp­tations and pressures associated with gambling and greed," U.S. Attorney Scott Lassar said. "That. however. does not con­done unlawful conduct." 
The U.S. attorney's office dis­covered the alleged point-shav­ing during an ongoing investiga­tion that was prompted by Northwestern's own internal investigation in 1994, said Randy Samborn, a spokesman for the 
U.S. attorney. He said he could not give details of how the play­ers shaved poinl'i. 
"Right now, there's nothing that is concrete on it, except if you look at some of lthe players') performances, they don't live up to their season averages," he said. 
Lee, a guard, averaged 12 points and Williams, a center­forward. averaged 8.1 that sea­son, but they each averaged 6.3 points in the three games. Lee scored just two points against Penn State. 
Lee had been suspended by the school for six games during the '94-'95 season for betting on football and not involving Northwestern, prosecutors said. They said it was only weeks after his return to the team that he began the conspiracy to shave points. 
Big Ten commissioner Jim Delany said Northwestern's investigation of Lee that led to the suspension found no evi­dence of point-shaving. 
Prosecutors said a reserve bas­ketball player, Matthew Purdy, also agreed to participate in the scheme and was named as an unindicted co-conspirator. 
Former football player Brian Ballerini was charged with accepting bets on sporting events from other Northwestern atheletes, including Lee. The charges against Ballerini include an accusation he threatened to harm Lee if he did not pay a gambling debt. 
Lassar said Ballerini and Lee were cooperating with prosecu­tors and were expected to plead guilty. 
None of those named in the indictments were available for comment. Prosecutors said they believed Lee lived in Louisville, Ky., and Williams in Chicago, but they did not know what they do for a living. 
William Saum, an NCAA gam­bling specialist, said illegal sports betting is a problem "on virtually every campus in America." 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

•Flexiole lease plans 
•Shuttle to campus/city •More info: 272,1441 •Mon~Fri 9--5,Sat 10--3 
* The Most Affordable Student Housing * 



11 VOU'RE A 
6000 MAN 



CHARLIE 
BROWN" 

AMUSICAL FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY based on the comic strip "PEANUTS" by CHARLES SCHULZ 

Moreau Center­Uttte Theatre Thursday-Saturday, April 2-4 • 8 p.m. Sunday, April 5 • 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 


IM£lfMD
c;_~ THE ARTS ~NOTRE DA.JIE, IN 
B RUN 0 'S 
PIZZA SOUTH 
2610 Prarie 288-3320 

Hours: 'Till 10 PM Sun­Thurs
Lunch and 'Till11 PM FriRegular Hours 

and Sat Lunch 11-2 

Final Fow-Special 

FRIDAY, SATURDAY, SUNDAY, MONDAY 2-14 INCH 4 ITEM PIZZAS-$14 INCLUDESTAX 





273-3890 
IISTILL THE BEST" 
r----------------------------------, 


QUAUTY RATED 


Friday, March 27, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Luther named retreat director 
By JESSICA LOGAN News Writer 
On August 1 Anne Luther will assume her position as the executive director of Retreats International, a ser­vice organization based at Notre Dame and an integral part of the University's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
For the past 16 years, Luther has served as the executive director of Claret Center in Chicago. 
The center offers psy­chotherapy and spiritual direction to individuals, cou­ples and families who are experiencing difficulties. Professionals working at the center work to integrate the two disciplines of psychology and spiritual direction. 
Among Luther's goals for the Hetreats International are the continuance of the suc­cessful Summer Institutes on the Notre Dame campus. 
These annual events bring over 40 faculty members to lecture on topics such as "Spiritual Direction" and "Reconstructing Catholicism for a New Generation." 
"[The institutes] have been a really positive experience because of all of the wonder­ful people that have been involved," Luther said. She also plans to "continue to provide the resources that support and motivate all of those involved with Retreats International. 
"''d really like to visit all of the different retreat centers across the country as soon as possible," she said. 
Luther's extensive involve­ment with Claret Center has provided her with consider­able experience in facilitating 




CLASS OF 1998 
FREE WINGS 
@bw-3 
during the final four 
SATURDAY 
count down til graduation•••• 
51 days 
staffs and ministry teams and in planning and evaluating programs. 
"My experience seems to fit into what the job with Retreats International calls for," Luther said. "Meeting with the board was like a conversation in which a whole lot of sharing took place." 
Regarding her feelings about her new appointment, Luther said that it will be dif­ficult to leave Claret Center after her 16 years of intense involvement. 
"It has really been a dis­cernment process for me," she explained. "I'm really happy to be meeting people at Notre Dame. I'm feeling a lot of awe and excitement." 
Luther received an master's degree in Religious Studies from Mundelein College and a Doctorate of Ministry degree 
in Pastoral Counseling from the Graduate Theological Foundation. 
She is also currently an adjunct pro­fessor in the Institute of Pastoral Studies at Loyola University, in Chicago, Illinois. 

T[iE IPAN~AFRKCAN CULTURAL CENTER 'P~: 
by 

DR. ANTHONY MONTEIRO 
Professor of Sociology Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science Philadelphia, PA . 
Saturday, March 28, 1998 at 2:00 p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge, University of Notre Dame 
Celebrating W.E.B. DuBois' 1.30IL BirtLday A.nni',...ersary 
reception follows 
Co-Sponsors: The Salon of friendship, Student activities, Gra<luate Student Union, ND Black Alumni Association, St. Mary's College Modern Language Department, NAACP 
Ge-t 8c-~eth-i""?' Co-8~'/? 
Be classy with Obse~ve~ classifieds. 
Full menu is inside Scholastic 
back 
)('e 







CarlsonWagonlit~ 
\I I"" dnK>rL· <·arblln \\ illo'llllltllr<ll <:I "c h<lll' lxTn 'clldllt~ '.nill· I>ante and \Ian\ sludcnl\ and lat:ull \ Ill Lurnpc r..,Ill l'l 25 \ l'<lf' l.cl Ulll l'\lll'lll'lllL:d :~trnpcan SJXTtall\l<, pl<tn ltllll ncxllrtl' I<~ l.tii<'IX: ( '"' a~ctte\ nlln' 
Ph :::' 1'' :::7 1 ~XII Fa\ ::: 1'' :::71 .+x7'• ·elmore u•mlu'ilft:\!r••up hlnlllJ.I!dL. 
*1"rm·cfmore cltW'i • har'.!c a Sin \t'r\ t• t' fee fm .nrlt11t ,,, {t•f, undt1r 55fX1 


~.. ,...,...,.. .. ,_,.. ' .,. r
1""\..,."''(rr..,..,.. , ,.. • _ 
page 8 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 27, 1998 

It means Tropical Rhythm, & it will be a HOT NIGHT with the salsa music from 
Friday, March 27, 1998 7 pm at Stepan Center TIX at LaFortune Info 
Desk or the door. 
Prices $3-Members $5-Students $7-Gen. Adm. 

lt'SSS 601N6 tO St. SSSSPt.CtACULAR! SSSO BU~ A t1CI<£t 


Friday, March 27, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Engineering names new dean 
By COLLEEN MURPHY 
News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame's College of Engineering has named Frank lncropera as the new dean of the college. 
Incropera is currently head of the School of Mechanical 
Engineering  at  Purdue  
University.  
lncropera  will  succeed  

Anthony Michel, who held the endowed professorship in engi­neering for 10 years. 
"Frank Incropera is a superbly gifted scholar, teacher and administrator who brings a wealth of experience to Notre Dame's College of Engineering," said Provost Nathan Hatch in announcing Incropera's appointment. 
"He also demonstrates a keen understanding of the college's unique mission and challenges and will be most able to move it to the next level of national prominence," he continued. 
Incropera will JOin the University faculty on July 1. 
"lncropera knew and under­stood the mission of Notre Dame as a Catholic university striving to be a great universi­ty. His being a good leader, [ability] to get along with oth­ers and [ability] to motivate people made him fit the bill," said Michael Seelinger, a grad­uate student in Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering and a member of the committee that chose the new dean. 
A member of the National Academy of Engineering, Incropera has directed a num­ber of sponsored programs and written eight books and more than 190 journal articles. 
He has also won several teaching awards, including the American Society of Engineering Education Ralph Coats Roe Award for teaching excellence. lie was also hon-. ored by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, receiv-
Own Your Own Home For As Little As ... 
In 30 days, you can own the waterfront condominium or
$499Per Month* 
townhome you've dreamed
FE-d of, located in a park like setting just minutes from downtown
5 25 ~erest 
South Bend and shopping
• Rate For information about this limited offer, call
$4 
'750Down
PmJinent 232-2002 
•Moufflllf J'riiiCIJ'It' aud infat':.' I l~tl:>t'd 011 11 2 
ing its prestigous Senior Scientist Award. 
lncropera has served as head of the department of mechani­cal engineering at Purdue since 1989. Before that he was assis­tant dean for research and graduate programs, as well as chair of the heat and mass transfer area of mechanical engineering. 
Incropera received his bach­elor's degree in mechanical engineering in 1961 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He then went on to Stanford University to earn both his master's and doctoral degrees in the same field in 1962 and 1966, respectively. 
Incropera has been a visiting professor and researcher at such institutions as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center, the University of California at Berkeley, and universities in Munich, Germany, and Pisa, Italy. 
"Juuust a bit outside " 












VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, March 27, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
ElliTOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks 
MANAGIN<; EDITOR Brian Reinthaler 
ASSISTANT MANAGING ElliTOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EOJTOR ................. Matthew Loughran VIEWPOINT ElliTOR .................. Eduardo Llull SPORTS EI>ITOR ............••........ Kathleen Lopa SCENE ElliTOR.~ ............................ Sarah Dylag 
Krisri Klir~ch SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ............ Shannon Ryan PUOTO EDITOR ..............•......... Kevin Dalum 
BUSINESS MANAGER Kyle Carlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER .•••••..•..•.••••••...•.• Kris KJcin An DESIGN MANAGER ..............•.........Br«t Hudat SYSTEMS MANAGER ............•....... Michael Brouiller WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow CoNTROll.ER ..................................... Dave Rogero 
The ( )i»crvt"r is 1hc indcpcndcn1 nCW!.papc:-r published by the stuc.lcnts of the Universiry ofNmrc Dame du Lac anJ Saint Mary's ( :ollege. It dOC!Ii not n~es.sarily rdlec1 the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is r~ported as .u:curacdy .;and objcctivdy as possible. UnsigncJ editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the h.liwr-in-Chief, Manag1ng Editor, Assistant Managing F.Jitor <~.nd department a.liwrs. Comm~ntaries, lett~rs and columns present the view!. of the .authors, .md not necessarily cho~ ofThe Observer. Vicwpoim space is avail<~.blc: to aJI members of the Notre O:amdSamc Mouy's communi()' and to otll readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
through letters is encour.lgcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising News/Phmo 631-5323 Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail Office Manager/General Information 631·7471 News E-Mail 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 


Starr's Sideshows Hit New Low in White House Investigation 
For the past two months, as the momentum swings from the White House to the independent counsel and back to the White House, the Ameriean public has been subjected to a detailed analysis of each day's events. These political sideshows have taken on lives of their own as each camp reaches for a knockout punch in their political hard­ball arsenal. It has escalated to include the sexual preferences of staff and reporters. 


Gary J. Caruso 
Can anyone remember when the comity and congenial politeness ended b1)tween the two sides'? Initially, inde­pondent counsel Kenneth Starr and his staiT respectfully accommodated !'resident and Mrs. Clinton's schedules when requesting information. Starr allowed them to answflr questions from tho White House or on video tape. Then, one day last year he subpoenaed Mrs. Clinton to appear in person at the U.S. Distriet Courthouse. I lis demand crum­bled the respect traditionally shown for any first family. That day marked the bnginning of when all hell broke loose bPlwenn the White llouse and indepen­dent counsel. Now that hell has ulti­mately all'ected the lives of' the staiTs of each as well as the reporters covering the story. 
ForGing Mrs. Clinton to participate in the dreus-like atmosphere outside the grand jury's courtroom infuriated the Clintons. In their minds, Starr had declared war on them. While others may have been round to have done wrong in the Whitewater, travel office or Foster suicide episodes, Starr's inves­tigative staiT had not found the Clintons culpable. When the Paula Jones sexual 
harassment suit became the next hurdle 
for the President to encounter, Starr's 
demeanor changed. So to the Clintons 
thinking, Starr had nothing on them but 
was attempting to vindicate his own 
existence by collaborating with the 
Jones attorneys. 
Hardball polities can be the fiercest, most vicious form of combat as recently demonstrated by the subpoena issued to White House media counsel Sidney Blumenthal. Outraged that Starr would ask him to identify the reporters with whom he had spoken, Blumenthal pub­licly chided Starr after appearing before the grand jury. However, the March 30 issue of The Nation contains a report that Blumenthal had been spreading rumors that some of Starr's staff and certain reporters covering the scandal were closeted gays. Columnist Doug Ireland suggests that Blumenthal's motive was to try to discourage further pursuit of the allegations that the President had sexual relations with female White House staffers. 
Observers have criticized Starr for becoming so angry about rumors involv­ing himself and his staiT that he subpoe­naed Blumenthal. However, while it is yet unknown what questions were asked of or answers given by Blumenthal, he has vigorously denied that he was responsible for any of the rumors about Starr or his staff. Blumenthal has called those allegations "a complete lie" and "totally false." 
Ironically, Starr's investigative staff first injected gay issues into the Whitewater probe in 1997. They inter­viewed openly gay White House appointee Bob Hattoy, asking him specifically about the Clinton adminis­tration's efforts to hire gay people. According to llattoy, assistants to Starr asked him about his "job to recruit homosexuals at the White House and in the government." 
Noting that he was stunned by the line of questioning, llattoy said that it struck him as reminiscent of the 1950s when the FBI and other agencies "hunted down" gays in the government. Hattoy said he teased the questioners by say­ing, "We hired gays everywhere." 

Some wonder why the independent counsel would even venture into the area of sexual preference. Were they trying to "uncover" various sexual lit­mus tests in the administration's hiring policy'? These critics of Starr point to Clinton's goal of making the government representative of American society by including every type of talented and qualified social and ethnic minority, including Gays. 
Starr's public record is one generally hostile toward gay people. As Solicitor General for the Bush administration, he opposed a gay man suing his insurance company which would pay up to $1 mil­lion for every illness except AIDS. Starr assisted the military in preparing its defense of its old policy banning gays. lie also argued that the government had a right to m:e "outrageous" practices beyond current law to investigate a bisexual farmer's sexual interest in teenagers. 
To date, no names of Starr staffers or 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
H&Y, COACH,~ I 9/GN THIS tli77CI? SHOOT, OF/~I'!?UK& ePPI&. 70 A91< itXI~c:­
\
\ 7HIN6... 

£/){}!&,I PIJI?SONAUY G/JA!?.ANTU
rr/ WHAT W YOIJ 
tf!ANTllJ 
Be? I 

reporters at the courthouse have sur­faced as being closeted gays. None of Starr's staiT has resigned, nor have any reporters covering the White House ease stopped pursuing information regarding the allegations against the President. However, it is almost certain that the issues raised by both sides will remain some of the more inten~sting and ollbPat sideshows evolving from the ease. 
Hopefully, Starr will not confuse the issue of one's sexual preference with the real issues that he should pursue, name­ly concerns about any obstruction of jus­tice or perjury. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. llouse of Representatives for eighteen years and for the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. /lis column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is dchotlline@/wtmail. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obsen1er . 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Allanimals are equal, but some are more equal than others." 
-George Orwell 
--------------~-~--­


VIEWPOINT
Friday, March 27, 1998 page 11 
• THAT GUY IN THE HALLWAY 
RA's Just Warden Puppets 
Over the last three years, you have learned one of life's most important lessons, and you have finally figured out how to survive at Notre Dame: You have learned how to balance your academics and your social life. All right, hands down, this does not include all of you. This is for those of you who should have earned a Rector's Assistant position. You were the best candidate for the job, but somewhere, someone made a bad decision. 
You know how this school works. You know the ins­and-outs of the classroom, administration and social life, and while you arc not Notre Dame's brightest, you are Notre Dame's Most Valuable; you have your "stuff' together. 

Bob Kerr 

You are everything that is expected of a Notre Dame student, but you are different. The stereotype isn't big enough for you because when people say, "He's a great guy," you really are. You know how to apply your knowl­edge and principles in real life situations. 
The problem: some rectors have confused or forgotten the purpose of their positions. The responsibility is huge, but essentially, the hall staffs purpose is to foster the growth of the residents and promote the family tradition. The key words are "foster" and "promote." This involves more than "protecting" and "maintaining." 
If the rector is more concerned with his appearance and the image of the dorm than the welfare of his resi­dents. he will inevitably select a staff that is also out of touch with real. internal issues. He needs control. At that point, it's "us against them" and you can forget about family tradition. 
He would have voted for you, but you aren't puppet material, and judging from your character and popularity, you don't have much potential. You have taken the time to lift your nose from the books and take the brave step outside your own room, so your peers know who you are. You aren't a dork, and that's dangerous because you don't enjoy working behind the scenes and reporting to the "warden." 
You are confident, and people listen when you speak up, so you could have revealed his duality or political motivations. Someday he wants an office in the main building, so he needs to maintain the dorm's image at all costs. and an individual like yourself threatens his con­trol. 
Your problem: Some rectors are not looking for "great guys" that know how to stand up and get the job done. Some rectors are looking for the guys that are familiar with the words "yes" and "master." He didn't vote for you because he knows he'll never wrap you around his finger. lie doesn't want you because you have a backbone, and when the situation arises, you'll open your mouth. You also know when to keep your mouth shut, and that's what scares him the most. 
Why won't you be an RA next year? Either they took the "family" out of Notre Dame, or your rector made another bad decision. 
Bob Kerr is a sophomore English major. /-lis column appears every other Friday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

speak up. 
VOICe yoLA~ optV\IOV\5 
aV\d seV\d lette~s to 

viewpoiV\t.1 @V\d .edLA 
C Lends Support for -s tfir-Jistry 
be the • same ptirsons responsible J'oi' nf•)vijtlirl.lt information and ministry to the 
"""'"...'""...,--.,gay students; We join in the hope that Father Garrick's protest will open the minds and hearts ofthe officers and Trustees ofthe U~iversity to the truth that Campus Ministry's 
_.... Cl)l\ r co~tn\\. _-.~·With and am ga~ ~ ___ i$ destr •. to both the co . __ ty's spiritual growth and t}le University's.academ· k reputation. . 
Weinvite Father Malloy and FatherWarner to reconstder Father Garrick's suspension in light of the "Spirit of "policy, If a gay, celi­
not preach in the 
our com!llunity, no mea:rllng; .· the students~ 

Dame and Saint '"""'~~'"'"''-"'"'"not stand alone. tiA,LA,-Nl)~jMI~. we know too well students, U~~lUU-~;:»JLt:;U. and Sup:. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

An Open Letter to Malloy 

C.S.C. The chronology of events leading up to his suspension implicates the University's cooperation in the discriminatory behavior clearly outlawed by the policy statement "The Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame." I believe that the Notre Dame community deserves a more complete explanation from you and from Campus Ministry Director Rev. Richard Warner of the events surrounding Rev. Garrick's removal from his duties than has been offered so far. 
I am very concerned that hypocrisy, instead of a real spirit of inclusion, drives much of Notre Dame's policy when it comes to hiring, firing, or fostering a Christian-based approach to differences among students, faculty, and alumni. For example, when I was a Notre Dame freshman in the fall of 1970, I was simultaneously proud of being a Notre Dame student and embarrassed by and ashamed of the rampant anti-Semitism and misogyny that thrived in my dorm and in my classes. Fond as many of my memories of my years at Notre Dame are, they are forever contaminated by the hatreds, insults, and personal abuses to which I daily bore witness as a member of the Notre Dame "family." Nonetheless, among so many other hatreds, the hatred of gay people was so extreme that even admit­ting to being gay was unthinkable. The fear I felt at Notre Dame of being ostracized for using the word "gay" to describe me or anyone else was as oppressive a form of self-denial as I have ever known. 
Luckily, the world is now a different place from the one I knew in 1974, as is Notre Dame. I am therefore saddened that, instead of encouraging voices of tolerance and understanding, Notre Dame still punishes honest men and women who attempt to speak on an issue about which the University has an ignoble legacy of silence, disavowal, and rejection. I almost feel as did Thoreau when he washed his hands of Massachusetts: instead of commanding the respect of its "family," Notre Dame instills in me the only kind of emotion appropriate to heavy-handed institutions built on sham plati­tudes and hollow credos-pity. 
In closing, I would like to quote from "The Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame," as reported in the Notre Dame Magazine (Autumn 1997): "We condemn harassment of any kind, and University policies proscribe it. We consciously create an environment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish" (5). At this moment, I feel estranged from any institu­tion that could so eloquently endorse a Christian approach to gay people and then so capriciously and cruelly silence them as you have done with Rev. Garrick. 
John H. Flannigan, '74 Associate Professor ofEnglish Prairie State College March 25, 1998 



MScenec 
page 12 --------------------~OBSERVER ---------------Friday, March 27, 1998 

A Frenchman, a Scotsman and an Irishman walk into a theater, impress St. Patrick's Day crowd with laughter and Celtic folk tunes 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Scene Writer 
S
outh Bend on St. Patrick's night seemed like a winter night in Dublin. Cold rain pelted down on cobblestone walkways as people ran to doorways in the thick blanket of fog trying to avoid being drenched. 
Anyone walking into the State Theater on that night would have been treated to an atmosphere similar to walking out of such a night on Grafton Street into the Oliver Saint John Pub. 
Celtic music, Irish dancing, beer and appreciative shouts from the crowd greeted the weather weary trav­eler into the warm red and gold interior of the aptly named State Theater which, on that evening played host to a performance of the Celtic Fiddle Festival. 
The musicians that make up the Celtic Fiddle Festival are not all Irish, nor do they claim to be an established group. The three label themselves as indepedent per­formers that tour together. Each plays an individual set and then the three play a joint set to end the show. 
But before the Celtic Fiddlers took the stage, joHn Kennedy and The Bent Tin Whistle Band played a num­ber of traditional Irish tunes accompanied by the young and talented members of The World Academy of Irish Dance. 
At the end of his set, Kennedy introduced Rosie McCormick who took the audience to the break with an acapella version of the world-famous Irish classic "Danny Boy." McCormick hit every note without fail and left the members of the audience absolutely silent until she linishcd to a roar of approval. Adding that he believes Scots are "never happy unless 
During the short intermission, the Notre Dame we're not pleased," he launched into a beautiful haunt­Bagpipe Band kept the crowd entertained with two or ing melody that captivated the audience. three melodies and the road crew set up for the Celtic But Cunningham's melancholy mood did not last 
liddlers. much longer as he kicked his performance into high 
The lirst of the three fiddlers, Christian Lamaitre, gear with a number of reels and jigs. The audience who is from the Brittany region of France, at times had responded by clapping and hooting along to the rhythm dilliculty communicating with the audience. of the song. 
"I could speak in French, but I am afraid that many of The second set of the show opened with a solo set by 
you would not understand," he said before launching Kevin Burke, the only Irish member of the group. He let into his first tunc. "So instead I think that I will speak loose with a few Irish jigs, much to the appreciation of English and it will be me who does not understand." the crowd. 
lie then rifled through a group of European folk songs After Burke rapped up his section, the other two fid­and dances. Accompanied by Scottish guitarist Tony dlers came onstage to join him in bringing the evening MacManus. Lemaitre alternately set the crowd on fire to a conclusion. All three traded solos and duos on vari­
and silenced them with the flurry of notes from his bow. ous numbers for the next half-hour. The three focused lie finished to the voeiforous approval of the crowd the on jigs and reels, prompting the members of The World allowed MacManus to take over the show for a few min­Academy of Irish Dance, who had already changed out utes. of their costumes and were sittting in the audience with 
MacManus played a number of highland bagpipe their families, to get up in the pit area in front of the tunes on his guitar. Perhaps the most amazing aspect of audience and dance. his performance was the sound quality. His guitar came This also was met with claps and cheers from the 
through the sound system perfectly with no distortion crowd, which took every oppportunity to turn the State or feedback. Even the furthest back row in the theatre Theater into a huge barroom clap-a-long. could distinguish the throbbing of the bass notes and As the festivities for the evening wound down and 
the quiek, stacatto tapping of the high end. One could people filed back out into the cold, hard rain, everyone hear the effect of a bagpipe coming through MacManus' left with a smile on his face and a fond memory of a St. guitar. This is equally impressive because the crew Patrick's night well spent. from Rattlehead Sound did not have the luxury of As a footnote, the show was sponsored by The sound-cheeking the fiddlers and MacManus, whose Shramrock Club, Cragan's Irish Import Store, The Irish delayed flight made them late for the show. Rose Tea Room, The Oliver Inn Bed and Breakfast, The 
MaeManus introduced Johnny Cunningham, the Joy of Ireland, 88.1 WVPE-FM and I'll Learn To Fly Scottish member of the trio, whose fiddle is almost as Productions, Kennedy's own production company. sharp and fast as his wit. At various times his perfor­Future Celtic music productions in the State Theater mance seemed like a combination fiddle recital, dance include Natalie MacMaster on April 29 at 7:30p.m. and 
hall gig and stand-up comedy routine. Carrie Newcomber on May 30 at 7:30p.m. Tickets are 
"My grandmother sent me a very Scottish birthday on sale now at the State Theater box office and at card the other day," he said. "It read, 'You're born in Cragan's Irish Imports. pain. You live in fear and you die alone. Happy birthday If MacMaster's performance is anything like this past.Johnny.' " one, you will not want to miss it. 
The St. Patrick's night concert in the State Theater fea­tured three different aspects of Celtic musical tradition. 
Top: The Celtic Fiddle Festival wows the crowd with the speed of their bows. The group, consisting of (from left) Christian Lemaitre, Johnny Cunningham, Kevin Burke and guitarist Tony MacManus, have played to sold out shows across the country. 
Above: A member of The Notre Dame Bagpipe Band entertains the audience during the first intermission. 
Left: The World Academy of Irish Dance (from left: Tara Ladewski, Mary Ladeski, Trish Daren, Sarah Daren and Erin Daren) bounces to the music of joHn Kennedy and the Bent Tin Whistle Band. The band includes Nolan Ladewski (left, with tin whistle) and Joel Cooper, director of Information Technologies at Saint Mary's College (right, with bass guitar) 
Photos by Jeff Hsu for The Observer 



~---~~--~---~~~-~--------~---~----~----­
M u s I c 
Friday, March 27, 1998 ---------------:--~OBSERVER page 13 
By DOMINIC CARUSO 
Scene Music Writer 
M
usic is as ancient as the human desire for expression. Songs and melodies are poetry designed to speak across language and cultural barriers. As an expression, music is a reflection of those who create it as well as those who experience it, throughout time or place. 
The modern era of music is one marked by increasing experimentation on the part of composers, performers, and audiences. Entirely new realms of music have been dis­covered and-~~~--~----~ recovered in the past fifteen years, and con­tinue to be explored. 
A thriving example of this ongoing process of forg­ing new with old is the swelling sphere of Celtic music, especially the music of Celtic Heartbeat. 
Two years ago the Irish­based record label Celtic 
poser Bill Whenlan's "Riverdance" album, the basis of the world touring show, on the Celtic Heartbeat label propelled a rela­tively minute label into worldwide domi­nance. Billboard Magazine named it the number one World Music Label for 1997 . 
. I'/ , ;-,:
J . 

_~, J ' r} r ... 1/ r \l}·-;_o; -~ 
~-.. _/ -~ " ~· .../ :.1 ~--· .t 

By KRIST! KUTSCH Scene Editor 
j" _;-·..• -~ eorge and the Freeks was an -~ ·~active part of the campus . . )~music scene during its heyday~"l"i!"'!'ll in 1995 and 1996, but gradua­
•· tion inevtably broke the band up last May. 
All was not lost, and this weekend four members of George and the Freeks are returning to South Bend under a new name, Hoobajoob. 
IIoobajoob is composed of ex-Freek Mike Larmoyeux on the bass guitar, ex Freck Doug McKenna on the guitar and vocals. ex-Freek and University of Virginia graduate Chris Whiffen on the drums and current University of Maryland student Jeff Cohen on the key­board. 
For their reunion tour, ex-Freek Andy Brennan will be replacing Cohen on the keyboard. 
The band played yesterday at the Alumni-Senior Club, will play tonight at 610 St. Peter's St. in South Bend and tomorrow at Corby's Pub. 
The formation of Hoobajoob is long and detailed, but it shows the determi­nation of the members to continue play-
Having recently joined with Universal Records in the United States, Celtic Heartbeat is promoting traditional Irish, Welsh. Gael, ~ottish, Manx. and Breton music, interpreted by younger perform­ers. Two of their latest releases, the sec­ond Celtic Heartbeat compilation album and the debut recording of Spirit' of Eden, are excellent examples of what the genre of Celtic music is going to sound like in the future. 
The first album, The Celtic Heartbeat Collection 2, is everything that a primer into Celtic music ought to be. Containing exactly what it's name sug­gests, the album is a coi­
tion that represents the majority of Celtic music available today. From very traditional reels, sets, and airs, to a con­temporary songexpressing desire for pea­cein northern Ireland, to two new age Celtic tracks. 
The contem­porary tracks are highlighted by the first track on the 

phenomenon. apparently you have been living under a rock the past year. Soaring vocals, pul­sating, swirling dance-beats pounded out on traditional Irish bodhnin all com­bined to make this one of the instant hits of 1997 (the album sat on the top of the World charts for six months). 
ing music. 
When Larmoyeux and McKenna graduated from Notre Dame in 1996, they wanted to continue playing music. They decided to stay in South Bend and live with the junior members of George and the Freeks, who would be playing for their senior year at Notre Dame. 
At this point Whiffen moved to South Bend to play in George and Freeks as well. McKenna, Whiffen and the other members of the Freeks played during the 1996-97 school year, and Larmoyeux worked in South Bend during this time. 
On the other side of the con­temporary coin, Christy Moore's "North and South of the River" has a near rock feel to it. Upon fur­ther inspection, this is surpris­ing, since Bono and the Edge, two members of the Irish U2, contributed back up vocals and guitar. Moore's voice seems oddly discordant with a slightly U2 pre-Zooropa feel, yet this serves to draw attention to the lyrics, which-stresses the weariness of 
the conflict of 
can fathom the legacy of their purpose. 
Spirit of Eden attempts to create atmos­pheric and ethereal music that merges traditional Celtic with the "aesthetic of world music." 
At times it fails to smooth­ly combine all the varying influences. The initial track, "Sleep With Ancients," has potential but becomes con­fused as vary­ing atmospher­ic sounds, such as a lone bag­pipe, the sound of rain, and a church bell ringing, fade out before we 

hatred in Northern Ireland. Furthermore, it serves to create an overall soothing tone that melds easily with the song's theme of peace. 
Contributions for the more traditional realm of Celtic begin with the air "The Flowers of Maherally" performed by the twelve year old choral ensemble Anuna, which specializes in ancient as well as modern music. Anuna's take on this song is haunting and charming, thanks to lead vocalist Michael McGlynn and ethereal supporting vocals that serve to vividly portray a young man's devotion to his love. 
"Eanair," performed by Lunasa. brings the flavor of traditional Irish folk music, evocative of The Chieftains or the Tannahill Weavers. Expertly played uil­leann pipes, string guitar and fiddle all serve to makes this a fine jig/reel combi­nation, the traditional dance music of Ireland and Scotland. 
The second album, however, is not quite as delightful as the compilation. 
~-~·-· 

·--~ 
The best song seems to be "Codlach 

Samh," sung entirely in Gaelic, with a minimum of background ambience to remove from the natural beauty of the female vocalist and the words them­selves. Spirit of Eden's songs seem to be typified by a desire toput as much as possible into any one song, yet their best songs are those which are the simplest. 
Celtic Heartbeat shows that it deserves it's honor of leading world record labeL Celtic Heartbeat Collection 2 shows the promise and skill of those already signed by the label. It is an excellent CD for those just becoming aware of the wealth of Celtic music wishing to hear more , as well as those already familiar with it searching for names to watch in the coming years. 
Spirit of Eden shows Celtic Heartbeat has signed some of the best new talent in the world music industry and certain­ly will not fade out with their record smashing "Riverdance." 
Hoobajoob. 
"The name's a great mys­tery," Larmoyeux said. "We try and let people figure it out." 
The band has played at par­ties and bars in the Washington, D.C., area, and is hoping to gain more exposure 
· in the next few months. The music of Hoobajoob is · all original, and Larmoyeux 
-

describes it as "jazzy. funky and a mix of all the stuff that we are interested in." 
According to Larmoyeux. the trip to South Bend is their only tour right now, but they hope to eventually play up and . down the east coast. including ,,, ·. New York, Boston and North · Carolina. 
Heartbeat formed in order "to bring together a wide spectrum of Irish traditional music and introduce it to a worldwide audience." The release of com­

album, "Riverdance"­the song that launched the ludicrously world-wide popular "Riverdance." If you aren't aware of the Riverdance 

When the youngest Ti .. ,,--;mit(.: ,., .. l,,,_.,.,:. {l.:-lti: --Notrfc 0<11(;-:w ·1 Doug ·vld~::-mr•, · The band is very excited to 
members of the band grad­":::; '.:Jit::r u1d ,, uated last May, Larmoyeux, McKenna and Whiffen decided to move to Washington, D.C., to work and start a new band. 
"We moved to D.C. because Doug and Chris have family there," Larmoyeux explained. 
.--d ,:, ,, llf. 
The three decided to form a new band named Clifford, and they played until last Christmas under that name. Then, after New Year's, the three found Cohen, a current University of Maryland student, and formed the band 
return to their alma mater, and hope the publicity will help them in the future. 
"We've all been back before for foot­ball games, but this is the first time we have been back as a band," Larmoyeux said. 
Looking to spread the word about your band without having to post a thousand fliers around campus? The Observer
AnENTION 
Music Scene is interested in knowing about upcoming 
shows, campus band news and a whole lot of other stuff. 
Contact us at the Music Scene at ndmuaic.hotmail.cam.


NDBANDS 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­ 
;q  ~\'1'1  .\'  IU11:iVI  .'1.1;011'1  
page 14  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, March 27, 1998  

• HOCKEY 

Irish hockey program builds on successful season 
By TED BASSANI Sports W rirer 
In the 1997-98 Irish hockey season. llead Coach Dave Poulin and his staff made great strides toward establish­ing Notre Dame as a force to be reckoned with in the CCI lA. which is arguably the strongest hockey conference in the nation. 
Following a disappointing '9h-'97 campaign which saw the Irish fall victim to 12 one­goal losses en route to a 9-25­1 record (6-20-1 CCIIA), the Irish put together some impressive wins against multi­ple top-! 0 hockey powers. 
By season's end, the Irish had doubled the number of overall wins as well as confer­ence wins from a year ago (lR-19-4; 12-14-4 CCIIA), and were rewarded with the school's first appearance in the CCII/\ postseason tourna­ment in Dave Poulin's three­year coaching tenure. 
First. some individual accomplishments are worth noting. .Junior Aniket Dhadphale put together an impressive season at forward. a season in which he lead the team with 25 goals. 
Sophomore center Ben Simon led the team in scoring­with 37 points, with eight goals and an astounding 29 assists in 37 games (almost an assist per game). Junior for­ward Brian Urick chipped in with 16 goals and led the team with five game-winners and a +15 rating. 

A hard working, hustling freshman dass was highlight­ed by the sparkling season of forward Dan Carlson, who fin­ished the year with 11 goals and 17 assists, and also tied for the team lead with three shorthanded goals. 
In goal for the Irish. senior Matt Eisler and junior Forrest Karr proved to be a steady duo all season long, which helped the Irish earn 11 road wins. 
Eisler's most impressive per­formances came in the playoff series versus Michigan, where he and the rest of the Irish pushed the Wolverines to the brink of elimination with an dominating 4-2 win in the series opener at Yost Arena. 
Forrest Karr's excellent sea­son in goal was highlighted by a stunning 4-2 road victory at Wisconsin, one of the four NCAA tournament-bound teams the Irish defeated on the road this past season. 
The most noteworthy indi­vidual season, however, was turned in by freshman defenseman Mark Eaton. 
In addition to rock-solid defensive play, Eaton dazzled the rest of the CCHA with an amazing ability to cap off end­to-end rushes -rushes which had Irish radio announcer Bob Neagle once compare him to the great Bobby Orr. 
Eaton's offensive spark from the position of defense proved to be a huge boost in big games. Eaton went on to earn CCHA All-Bookie Team honors as well as the distinction as the CCI-lA Bookie of the Year, which is selected by the 11 coaches of the CCHA. 
Eaton can also be likened to Brian Leetch of the New York Rangers because of his smooth skating and an ability to make spectacular plays look entirely too easy. 
As for the accomplishments of the Irish as a team, the most noteworthy statistic of the year would proabaly have to be the team's 11-10 (regu­lar season) road record. The Irish were first put on the map right away in the 1997-98 sea­son with two wins in the rink of WCHA power St. Cloud State. 
These wins were soon fol­lowed by a 6-1 road thrashing of the number-one team in the nation by season's end, the Michigan State Spartans. The Irish also recorded wins in the home rinks of national hockey powers such as Ohio State, Northern Michigan, Wisconsin and Michigan in the postsea­son. 
What many fail to realize is that the Irish are an up-and­coming team, consisting of 18 freshmen and sophomores. The Irish will only lose three seniors going into next year, although the loss of each will hurt. 
Senior centers Lyle Andrusiak and team captain 
Steve Noble (a finalist for this year's Hockey Humanitarian Award) will be missed next year, along with goaltender Matt Eisler. 
The question of how such a young team could rebound from such a poor showing last year so quickly has a simple answer. 
Head Coach Dave Poulin, himself a former Notre Dame hockey star (class of '82), has turned this team around through excellent recruiting and then by developing such talent. The signs that this team is well coached are quite clear. 
One thing that stands out is discipline, as shown by the significant drop in the amount of penalty minutes takHn by this team as compared to last year's squad. 
Second is the specialty teams; both the power play and penalty kill were much improved this year as com­pared to Poulin's first two teams. 
Thirdly, and most impor­tantly, is the poise that this young team showed in hostile road rinks like Michigan and Michigan State. A team's character is always a reflec­tion of their head coach. 
The 1997-98 Irish hockey season concluded with a trip to Ann Arbor, in which they squared off with the Michigan Wolverines in a best-of-three series in the opening round of the CCIIA tournament. This was the first post-season party the Irish had been invited to in three years. 
After a seventh-place finish (actually tied for sixth with Lake Superior State), no one expected tho Irish to pose a threat to the perennially pow­erful Wolverines. 
Thon, thn Irish stunned the nation with a 4-2 whipping of tho Wolvnrinos in their own back yard. The dismantling marked only the second time a Michigan team had ever lost a homo CCI lA playoff game. 
The next night, tho Irish came out with another gutsy performance in which a sus­pect call may have robbed ND of the game winner in the final minuttlS of regulation. As it stood, the game went into overtime and finally won by Michigan at the 19:00 mark, the fifth longest CCHA game in history. 
In the series finale. the Irish sprinted out to a 2-0 second period lead, only to see that lead vanish after three goals by Michigan on the power play. The contest finished 4-3 in favor of the hated Wolverines. 
To say that the Irish put forth a good showing at Michigan is an understate­ment of epic proportions. 
In faet, it just may have been the performance of the Irish that rendered the Wolverines powerless in the semifinals of the CCIIA tournament, where they lost to Ohio State. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/t. Europe $290 o/w. Other worldwide destinations cheap. ONLY TEA­RORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Air-Tech (212)219-7000. (800)575-TECH. www.airtech.com 
"""Attention Sophomores··· Looking for a job for next school year? Position available at the Morrissey Loan Fund. Call Deb at 1-6616 for information. 
-THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! Man-Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon -Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 
WANTED 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT SNITE ART MUSEUM Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on museum objects and related hands-on activities. June 2nd to July 31st. 10-20 hours per week. Fine Arts major with exp. teaching and/or workmg with children preferred. (June 15 to July 31st. additional Work Study hours -if eligible-with 

... 
.• 
National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours per week if desired. PLUS room and board included June 23 to Aug. 1) CALL education curator Sherrie Gauley, 631-4435, ASAP. App. deadline 4/06/98 
Students! Looking for flexible hours? lnt'l Health & Nutrient Co. offering competitive wages to moti­vated individuals. 243-8009 
TAIWAN lnt'l Health Co. expanding into Taiwan in May. Looking for 5 pea-pie interested in this int'l expansion. 271-0912 Marketing/Promotions -Aggressive, Castle Point apt. dependable, enthusiastic students sublease $200/mo will be hosting a festival of music and/or non-students needed for 243-4920 and dance at the Silverhawks promotional work at each home game. Excellent Prr 2 College Park Apts avail for sum-STATE THEATRE opportunity for the right individuals. mer. 243-5668 $10-$15 per hour. Call Mr. Becker right next to Heartland downtown. at i -800-334-4897. FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM-The show begins at 8:00 pm with 

PUS.WASHER/DRYER. Umphrey's Mcgee, continues at EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY-FALUSUMMER.272-6551 9:30 with Michiana's greatest belly MENT -Discover how to teach dancers, and concludes with a spe­basic conversational English in cial extended set from Alibaba's Prague, Budapest & Krakow. 1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR Tahini at 10:00 pm. Tickets are Competitive wages + benefits. CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES available at the Lafortune Box Seasonal/year-round positions. For 272-6551 Office and the State Theatre Box more information: Office for $5 until the day of the (517)336-0640 ext. K55841 show, at which point they become 
FOR SALE $8.
I

FOR RENT 
Come on out and dance yourself 
I 

SPACIOUS 1BR CONDO silly! Going to Summer School? Stay in walk to campus College Park condo. Call 243-7720 Call Dianne Killelea Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale for details. 272-5444 Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor 
play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID-1/2 Now Renting price field fee. 
TICKETS
Campus View 291-2540. 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks from campus 272-1441 For Sale ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and 
Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows babbling brooks in summer. Second round of leasing at College Center Stage -$30 Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire-Park Condominiums, few units still 272-7233 place in winter. Love and joy for available. Please contact office for your baby all year long. Happy, car-appointment 272-0691. ing professional couple would love 
GRADUATION TICKETS to provide a newborn with love, joy 4 or 5 Bdrm furnished house, WANTED and security. Call Ed and Ellen at i­w/d, sand volleyball, 119 N. St. 800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
Peter, 233-9947 Call Dennis @ 288-2423 
or 800-915-6293 Wanted: Beautiful yuppie who likes NICE 3 bdr home 2 blks from cam-late nights on the beach, Coronas, pus 273-i 566 open mike, and small, fat orange 
PERSONAL 
bears for wonderful relationship 
BA'STAHINI 
with a salty sailor. 
Belle, I've never met a Navy man I didn't like. Mae 
joc...hang in there ... love...jp 

ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
Furn. room, air, kitchen, private entrance, phone. laundry facilities, utilities included. $200/mo. 
272-0615. 
FOR RENT: 2 BA/2 BATH OAKHILL CONDO, AVAILABLE AUG. 1ST. CALL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE (219)272-2910. 
look at all this junk food . Coming April 1 and 2 
SKALCOHOLIKS 

CD Release parties: April 1 -Alumni-Senior Club (21 and over) April 2 -Fieldhouse Mall 
Skalcoho:iks' debut CD "look at all this junk food ..." will be available for$12 
A& V-from deep within the study lounge ... disguised as a mild-mannered stu­dent... ...yet capable of procrastinating ALL 
semester and then cramming it into one three-hour session the night before the exam ... it6s a bird! ...it6s a plane!... NO! ITOS SUPER STUDENT!!! -M ...you really are who your friends Billy-There are age laws in the are. states, man! This isn't Hong Kong! what a revelation!! two peas in pod those two. Jo-smoky, smoky to everybody 

Othey like me! they actually like Tony, be faithful to your woman me!6 
Art rules!!l peace I tell ya ... THIS is what college is all about... SUBLIME RULES!!!!!!!!!! kickin it on the quad, people-watch­ing, listening The crew from los gatos rocks the to music blare from Zahm...all the embarcadero pier 39 golden gate while under santa cruz palo alto and the bay the balmy bliss of the sun... area 
Okay. If KristinOs alive and I don't want you to be like the guy in 
Susan6s in the desert, the PG-13movie that everyone real-
then whose body was in that coffin? ly hopes makes it happen. I want 
you to be like the guy in the rated R I so want John Black. movie. The guy that you're not sure 
you like yet. like sands through the hourglass ... Hey Maria! I hope you are enjoying I can SO give out cool points!!! your lunch. 
YOUORE the one on punishment, chick. weOII return for the second half of  Do you do drugs Danny? Everyday. Good. So what's the problem.  
days of our lives in just a moment.  Hey, I'm no doorknob either.  
fred baby, excellent writing lately. really ... holly  What do you mean I'm funny? What's so funny about me? Tell rne what's funny.  
if life is just one big joke, then i don't get it. cartoonist seeking ... well, anyone female. Captain's log, stardate 5052. .. My hyatel hernia is acting up. The ship is cold and damp ..... «Star Trek XII: "So Very Tired"»  I believe in long slow deep soft wet kisses that last for three days. Good night. I couldn't figure out what I was doing in Utah this morning. Don't let him pull that move on you. Oh, that's the move! I tried to warn yal  
Been rejected far too many times, haven't you?  That kid is on the escalator again! Leave the gun.  

We are looking for someone to SUBLET our nice house near cam­pus for the summer. Rent nego­liable. Call Peter 251-0815 
Nice 3-4 bdrm, bath & 1/2 house. Unfurnished, 2-car garage, gas heat, WID. 10-mo lease. 
$1,050/mo. 
Across from park, safe area. 289­5057. 
If you or anyone you know likes a certain kind of music, or any kind of music, then you and these people you know should know about what we know: 
This SATURDAY night, Michiana's two best-smelling bands, 
UMPHREY's McGEE and ALIBA­Czechy-I haven't been happier in my life, man! 
Uncle Mark-I love you! Sincerely, HMM 
Seriously, though, Mark: When I was talking about the prospective date thingy earlier tonight, I really meant to talk to Brent. What we have here is a failure to communi­cate. 
Take the canoli. 
What the Observer needs more 
than anything else is a new set of 
printer description files or whatever they are called. Yeah systems I am talking to you. And why don't you call us? It is your job. It is 4:30 and wherever you are right now you bet­ter not be asleep. Any decent desk­top publisher should be able to process and print an eps file with a clipping path, but we obviously 

can't. Did I mention it was 4:30?  
and you all call ME goofy.  
so I guess itOs true, o roomie of our  Brent-Billy said yes, he'•n gp with your date's prospective!  Goodnight Mikes.  
new room...  

Friday, March 27, 1998 
Names 
continued from page 24 
gonna Shoot All Over You. 
Other squads dedicated their team names to various icons and personalities such as Doctor Teeth And The Electric Mayhem, Yosemite Sam And The Backoff Mudflaps, Gem And The Holograms, Vanilla Ice and the VIP Posse. Shaft And Four Other Private Die's, and last but certainly not least, The Nick Wills Fan Club. 
Other squads do not rely on names as much as they do on their unique "style" of play. From jock straps to duct tape, DOS GOLDKAMPS is back, but this time as DOS GOLDKAMPS le Full Monty. 
Another squad that returns to the courts is Absolut Curlies IV: Sworn to be shorn, whose antics will not be discussed. 
One name not found in the list of 625 teams is All The President's Men. Father Monk Malloy, who usually fields a seeded team. is not playing in this year's tournament. 
The Bookstore Committee also addressed the problems of pre­vious years concerning racial tensions between players and fans. As a result, the Committee has adopted a "zero tolerance" policy. 
The Committee increased the number of security personnel to assist the Commissioners with crowd control. Furthermore, at the beginning of each game every team member must sign a form stating that they "under­stand and acknowledge the rules outlined by the Bookstore Committee." This will be the only warning for the players and any altercation could result in player ejection or team for­feit. 
"Last year we had some prob­lems," executive commissioner Mark Huffman said. "This has to do with the administration and we don't want to have these incidents this year. So, commis­sioners will be by the book." 
Notre Dame's only real bas­ketball madness will begin after March, as the preliminary rounds start April 4. 
COORDINATOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY needed to implement a ministry responsive to the spiritual, personal and social needs of Catholic youth in a middle-class 2500-family parish in Baton Rouge, LA. An integral part of this ministry will include recruitment, devel­opment and training of volunteer youth workers and collaborative work with a large parish staff consisting of clergy, religious and lay persons. The ideal candidate will possess a minimum of three years' experience in working with teenagers, and a degree in theology, youth ministry, pastoral studies, communications, guidance, or the equivalent in education and/or experience. Benefits include medical and disability insurance and retirement plan. Send resume and refer­ences no later than April 15, 1998 to: St. Thomas More Catholic Church. 11441 Goodwood Blvd., Baton Rouge, LA 70815; or FAX us at (504) 275-1407, Attn: Father John Carville. You can also con­tact us by e-mail at STM02@compuserve.com. 

The Observer/Rob Finch 

In the coming weeks Bookstore Basketball action will return to the courts of campus. 
sigl\;:U · gfl:n 
·ll.t RecSpo .· .• The . $20 and no experience 
. ecessary. Open to all 
rJOtre Dame students, facul­
ty and staff. 

Tlck8tl avalllllllt 1111 IIIIPIII 1111 Lafal-..lnlftllllla Bilk. Cll1118 Stlldlnt IJnlln 11.-d,.. .... lnfOPmlllon: 881-7757.
CJF PREVIEW NIGHT 
Wldnllday, Aprl11t Bpmln 1111 Lafol•blle BaiiPoOnl • AIBIIslanll Rlf lOck Ill the festival by llstdll ta MJ Jazz bands and eQloylng IPel reiPeshmentS ~Dldle lbldent lmlan ao.t. 
-~~----------~--~---~------~ 
page 16 
Lax 
continued from page 24 
attacker Ben Savage discussed what his squad concentrated on. 
"Our work in practice was on doing the little things," Savage said. "We spent a lot of time on goal scoring, completing the offensive attack." 
Completing the drives on offense with a goal and com­pleting the defensive attacks at the midfield before they start will give the Irish the jump they need as they prepare to face Great Western Lacrosse League rivals Ohio State and Butler 

next week. 
In the series between the Irish and Hobart, the Irish have won all five meetings, though the last two years Notre Dame has only won by an overtime goal. Though the game has been moved from Hobart's home venue, Boswell Field, due to snow, this game is their home opener. 
"They can say whatever they want as far as confidence goes, but we know we're gonna kick them around," said Seaman. 
A win will boot the Irish to the top of their game, though as Corrigan said, "[Through practices) this week, we've accomplished that we are a better team." 



Baseball 
continued from page 24 
Northeastern Illinois domi­nated the first two innings of the nightcap. taking a 6-1 lead into the middle of the third. But Notre Dame stormed back with four runs in the bottom of the third and six runs in the fourth. 
The top five hitters in Notre Dame's lineup went 10-for-18 with seven RBI and nine runs scored. 
Brant Ust again played hero, sending an Archie Vetter deliv­ery in the fourth beyond the left field fence for his second 
NotreDameBasebal 
Thurs. vs. N.E. Dlinois (DB) 4 PM Fri. vs. Indiana Tech 5 PM Sat.(DB).vs. Georgetown Noon Sun. vs. Georgetown Noon 
Stadiu 

~~~~~~ ~~-;
::: ~~~-~ 
~~~~~::.---:.-:-~-=~~~ 
homer of the day and his fifth of the season. 
"For a couple of games, two and a half games really, we weren't playing like a winning team," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "What we need to do is hit in the dutch ... and for two-and-a-half games we hadn't been doing that." 
"It seemed like as SCHill as we got one clutch hit, the clutch hits all started coming in big groups," said Mainieri. "I think we've turned it around with the second half of [yesterday's) ball game, and hopefully we'll start hitting more in the clutch." 
If the Irish have reversed their fortune, it couldn't have Friday, March 27, I 998 
come at a better time. The team faces Indiana Tech in a rematch tomorrow afternoon at Frank Eck Stadium bc~l'ore host­ing Big East rival Georgetown in a twinbill on Saturday and in one game on Sunday. 
The Warriors' foiled the Irish with ace Ken Fischc~r on Wednesday, but will need more than one hurler to tamc! the new-found Notre Dame attack. 
"[Indiana Tech) took us 11 innings last year, and then beat us 7-2 the other day, so we'd like to get 'em back," said Felker. "It is definitely good [to be playing well). especially with the conf'erenee season starting this weekend." 
Friday, March 27, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 


The unconditional love that unite .•.. • nt and child, brother and sister creates tHe bon ·•···• · ·. t is family. 
Presenters: Mrs. Audrey :ero a Heights College and Notre Dame students. Mitsic by Coro Primavera 




Thursday, April 2 
Love: It Had to be You 
Thelovethatbringstoge 
is rooted in God's tender 1 
Presenters: Rev. Paul·•.. ·.. · .C., Rector of Dillon Hall and Notre Dame faculty an provided by Voices of Faith 



Monday, April 
Love: I'll Be There For Friendship is the instrum h God reveals God's deep and abiding love for 
Presenters: Rev. , C.S.C., Department of Theology and Notre students. Music provided bymem rary Choir 
will oe an evenin~ of prayer ana





Morri~~e~ Manor C~a~el 
I 

reflection ana aiscussion. will oe servea. Stuaents are all tlrree sessions or as many (2MPUS
1:~~~~:J~ PM 

three iliey can attena. t\lliNISTRY 

~-------w 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 27, 1998 
• WOMEN's TENNIS 
Irish netters hold off Wolverine attack for victory 
ByTlM CASEY 
Sports Wruer 
Sometimes the test of how good a team is. lies in how they deal with pressure of being behind. 
This is exactly what hap­pened to the women's tennis team on Wednesday in a match at Michigan. In a rare mid­week away match. the 18th ranked Irish held off 28th ranked Michigan, winning 5-4. 
Notre Dame won the first four singles matches with ease before Michigan came back to win the final two singles match­es. 
In doubles play, the Irish fell behind 3-0 in each eight game pro-set before the second dou­bles team of Marisa Velasco and Michelle Dasso pulled out an 8-5 victory to ensure their team's win. 
"We played alright for a mid­dle of the week match. which we usually don't play," head coach Jay Louderback said. "Some of the girls were tired, but we hung in there." 
All four of the singles wins for the Irish were in straight sets. Michelle Dasso defeated Michigan sophomore Danielle Lund by a 6-3, 6-2 margin at second singles. Lund is a solid player who previously compiled a 1f>-5 rm~ord this year before losing to Dasso. Dasso improved to a perfect 16-0 on the season. Third singles play-
ERASMUS BOOKS 

• Used lxx>ks tn.gh~ ard oold 
• 25,000 Hardback ar~ Paperback 
lrJoks in stock 
• O..Ot-<>f-Print Se.'lrdl Service: $2.00 
• Jl{:praisals large ard srall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232~8444 

er Velasco was also impressive, scoring a 6-3, 6-4 victory over Tumeka Harris. 
At fourth singles, Notre Dame's Tiffany Gates posted a 6-3. 6-3 win against Erryn Weggenman. 
"Tiffany played very well," Louderback commented. "She was ~.olid against a good oppo­nent. 
The fourth of the Irish's victo­ry in singles was the most impressive. Sophomore Kelly Zalinski bounced back from a couple of recent losses, to score a 6-4, 6-4 victory over Michigan's Sora Moon. 
"Kelly rebounded nice after a couple of tight losses recently," Louderback said. "Moon was the number two player for Michigan last year, so this is a good win for Kelly." 
Michigan came back after los­ing the first four matches to record victories at first and 
219-271-9540 

sixth singles. Brooke Hart defeated ND's number one player Jennifer Hall in straight sets, 6-3, 6-2, while at sixth sin­gles Jen Boylan beat Kelley Olson 6-7, 6-3, 6-0. 
Coach Louderback saw the momentum shift to Michigan after their victories. "They had momentum at the end of singles which carried over to the beginning of doubles," she said. 
The duo of Velasco and Dasso, who both recorded sin­gles victories, battled back from an early 3-0 deficit to gain the Irish's fifth and deciding point. 
"Marisa and Michelle didn't panic after being down early," Louderback said. "There was a large crowd watching their match and they didn't let it affect them. They played smart and pulled out a very big win for us." 
---------------------------~---------------------------­
play host to the University of Kentucky. Kentucky is current­ly ranked 24th in the nation and are 8-4 thus far this year. The two teams met a year ago at Kentucky with the Wildcats nipping the Irish by a 5-4 mar­gin. 
In last year's match, five of the singles matches featured players who will be competing this Saturday, with Notre Dame winning two of the five. Jennifer Hall beat Massoumeh Emami while Kelly Zalinski defeated Christy Sigurski for the two Irish singles victories. 
Coach Louderback sees this match as a good test for his tal­ented team. 
"Kentucky lost a tight 5-4 match to Georgia this year, who is ranked third in the country," he said. "They had multiple match points against Georgia but couldn't capitalize. They have a deep lineup with not much difference in ability from one through six. They also fea­ture very good athletes, so this should be a good matchup for us." 
Use Observer Classifieds 

The Irish Connection 
NotM. ~~~ H~ N~ 
Proudly 
Presents 

Friday, March 27 
1st annual 






Cups Tournament 
Enter your team for $1 0 we·n provide playing materials 
CASH PRI7LIES Saturday, March 28 
Funkaliscious Disco Party 
Costume Prizes Pimpin' tunes 
525 N. Hill St. South Bend 233-8505 

G.t'\se""'bte Descat4sa 
Lafi,., Amet-ical't M,..sic with Aft-o-Cat-ibbea,., Rhythms 

A c~-tlta.tt4al e.ve.t'\t cospOt'\&Ot4e.d by the. Ke.lloee J""stita.tte. at'\d La Aliat'\za S~.-11'\day, Mal"ch 29, 1998 LaFol"tl.-11'\e Balll"oOW'\ 7:00pm ADMJSSJON FRG6 
--------------~~--~---------------­
Friday, March 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• TRACK AND fiELD 
Notre Dame tracksters gear up for busy weekend ,.. 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field team will seek to divide and conquer this weekend by splitting its athletes up and sending them to three different meets. 
Members of the Fighting Irish will compete in the Purdue Invitational, the Stanford Invitational, and the Alabama Relays in the kick-off to the outdoor track season. The meets in Stanford and Alabama will include competi­tors from up to 40 schools, while Purdue has invited about 15 teams. The Purdue Invitational is held today and tomorrow, and Stanford and Alabama will host their meets tomorrow and Sunday. 
"Basically what we want to do is get a feel for where we're at. Most of these runners haven't competed in a month," head coach Joe Piane said. "What we're building for is the Big East meet again as our goal." 
Notre Dame will send a core group of sprinters and field athletes to Alabama to take on the excellent competition there. Some of the athletes competing in the meet will be senior all-American hurdler Errol Williams, junior hurdler Nadia Schmiedt, senior 800­meter and 400-meter hurdle runner Berit Junker and sophomore long jumper Marshaun West. 
''I'm hoping to duplicate last year and qualify for nationals again [in the 400-meter hur­dles]," Schmiedt said. "I want to run some more consistent times. I guess the main goal is to qualify for nationals. This weekend, I'm hoping to run under :60 if I can, and get in a strong race." 
"''m going to try the 400­meter hurdles. My goal is to qualify for the NCAAs in the 800-meter run or the hurdles," Junker said. "If I do that, then I'd like to get into the finals." 
A few of the top distance ath­letes will run at Stanford, namely senior all-American runner Jason Rexing, junior Antonio Arce and sophomore Alison Klemmer. Some profes­sional runners and NCAA champions will participate in the invitational. JoAnna Deeter, who qualified for the NCAAs in the indoor season, will take the weekend off. 
"We just want to get back into competing and get the outdoor season off to a good start," women's distance coach 
"DEFINITE OSCAR'"' MATERIAL. 
Two big thumbs up." 
flti3llt3:ll:il 
"A stunning achievement. 

One of the year's best." 
I:(•J!II:[<J)(•J:Il l'ek• llovm 
"****.

A certain Oscar· contender." 
W:i\it}t\1 Jock Mathew• 

(Ill Atl~j \, •t.' I till I 

lox ~~m~l~~~l ~1dm~~ .,. .~661 ~at~IH~ ,,, •• In! iff ,~fi!H !!r11 ·111 lcf ~l6l!lr. Jo!lill~il ~~~~~lfmj M~m ~~m1 i11~ lo~IJI,I~~~~~~ ~r11111ma ~1w J~mer ~~~~j~~~~~~~ 1/ooUI~Omll~! W1m1 
~~ ~~161 ~~111 }~~·llrm im~lfllni~6Hf il~!man ".~~~~~tl ~ma ~~·.llfl ~~~~~~m~lt ~:1: ~ltlMoo~r ,;: lm1 ~~~~~~~ t~ fM f11!j~1i ~~~~~~~fll~t lime~., . 
wwwluma~doloyhl Clllll­
.R~;;!·;.  rn ~~  '"': ffj~o~! Jam~lM.!Hni1~  -. .......... ""'  '-~­ 
~  c  1..11....., c-, lu ....._. 111•-• t.w-, loa  
(WINNER  •  EST  SCREENPLAY  • 1887 CANNES  FILM  FESTIVAL)  
Cinema at the Snite  
Fri. &Sat. 7:30 and 9:45prri  
Presented b  ND Communications and Theatre  --··-~---­ 

Upcoming Events: 

Tim Connelly said. "Alison Klemmer will run the 10,000 meters. I think she's about ready to qualify for the NCAAs in that event. She's not the only 10,000 runner [for Notre Dame], but I think she's the one right now capable of com­peting at a national level." 
"It's a very important meet for the long-distance runners, and so I'm going to run the 10,000 meters and try to quali­fy for the NCAAs,"Arce said. 
All pole vaulters, including Big East champion Mike Brown, will be involved in the Purdue Relays, as will the remainder of Notre Dame's athletes in other events. Although the competition is still strong, this meet will not involve quite the caliber of ath­letes that will compete at Stanford and Alabama. 
"I think we'll just use these first couple meets to see where we're at and how we've pro­gressed since the indoor sea­son and to see where they'll be able to perform well at the Big East," sprints and hurdles coach John Millar said. 
These meets will provide a testing ground for what the Irish hope to achieve during the outdoor season. 
"Again, our goal is probably to win the Big East," field events coach Scott Winsor said. "In the field events, we've got a couple kids we thought should have been in the NCAAs, so we want to do well in the Big East and then take a couple kids into the NCAAs." 

Recycle me. Please. 
GrapLi~ Con~epl§ 
Bookstore Basketball Team T-Shirts 
Available at 654-8280 
•Team logo, picture, etc... 
•Team name 
order by phone or fax Call Rose to place order 
"4th Annual Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Lecture on Ethics and Public Policy" 
Dr. Kurt
Michael lgnatieff 

Spellmeyer
Writer, Historian, Broadcaster 
of 

The Rutgers University 
Chapters in The History of The Moral Imagination: 
Writing Program 
The Universal Declaration Of Human Rights The Genocide Convention: 
I

and the Holocaust Its Invention and Fate 
The Return of 
Monday, March 30, 1998 at 4:15p.m. Tuesday, March 31,1998 at 10:15 a.m. 
the Sacred: Religious
THE JOAN B. KROC 
Discourses in 
INSTITUTE FOR Hesburgh Center Auditorium EVERYONE 
Popular Culture 
INTERNATIONAL University of Notre Dame WELCOME! 
PEACE STUDIES 
Monday, March 30 7:00P.M. Center for Continuing 
(219) 631-6970 www.nd.edufkrocinst 
Education room. 210-214 West Lounge 
~--------r-"0-~------~~­
Friday, March 27, 1998

page 20 The Observer· SPORTS 
.. 
• SOFTBALL 
By BILL HART 
Assisram Spons Ediwr 
While most students were taking advantage of the excel­lent weather yesterday to prac­tice their passing and work on their tans, the Notre Dame women's softball team used it to gain momentum going into confernnee action. 
The team proved they were up to the challenge recording their first sweep of the season by defeating the Loyola Hamblers twice at home. 
In the first game, the Irish struck early and often, scoring six runs in the first three innings to put the game out of reach. In the first inning, sophomore first baseman Tara King doubled to left field to drive thrne runs in, while a sin­gle by Melanie Alkire in the sec­ond inning scored two more. 
The Hamblers tried to keep it dose with a four-run rally in the 11f'th. but pitcher Jennifer Sharron brought the game back in control by striking out Tara Yates, ending the inning and preserving the 6-4 lead. The Irish scvred one run each in the fifth and sixth innings, extend­ing the final score to an 8-4 vic­tory. 
In the batter's box, the Irish were led by the duo of King and Lisa Tully, who had five hits and four HBis between them. Alkire went 2-for-4 from the plate, while Sharron improved her record to 4-4 with four strikeouts and a com­plete game. 
In the second game the Hamblers struck in the first, taking a quick one-run lead. In the second inning, the Irish exploded off the bat for four hits and three runs. Freshman Lizzy Lamire got a single and stole second to start things off before King hit a double to advance her to third. Junior Kristina McCleary then hit another double to drive in the two runners. 
Loyola would tie the game at 3-all in the third, after pitcher Angela Bessolo loaded the bases with one out. A single by Hambler Marlene Dunleavy scored the first run before a wild pitch sent the second run home. Notre Dame responded in the bottom of the inning, loading the bases with no outs before a wild pitch brought home Danielle Klayman. 
After the Hamblers tied the game again in the fourth, the Irish scored one more in the fifth through a McCleary single down the right field line. Another surge in the sixth inning brought home two more runs, including the eventual 
TITANIC (PG-13) DTS 12:00 4:00 8:15 PAMARY COLORS (R) DTS 12:30 3:50 6:50 9:50 Y4.D1'lfl:;s(PG13) DTS 1:30 4:20 7:00 9:40 MAN IN IRON (PG13) ors 1:15 4:10 7:10 10:00 CH:ASE(PG) DTS 11:45 2:15 4:40 7:15 9:45 ~IEEl:l..ES (PG) DIS 
12:10 2:30 4:50 7:20 9:30 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brackets] THE NEWTON BOYS (R) [1 :15]4:30 7:30 1 THE BORROWERS (PG) [12:45] 
[2:45]5:00 7:15 9:15 AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) [1 :00]4:00 7:00 9:50 

game-winner Giampaolo. The Hamblers scored one more in the seventh. but Bessolo stuck out two batters to retire the side and keep the 7-5 victory. 
In the nightcap, the Irish were led by Giampaolo, who went 3-for-4 from the plate with one RBI. McCleary went 2-for-3, batting in three turns on a single and a double. Bessolo earned her second win of 1998 allowing four earned runs over seven innings with eight strikeouts. 
"We hit the heck out of the ball," head coach Liz Miller said. "There was no way we're going to lose when we hit the ball the way we did today." 
With the wins, Notre Dame The Observer/John Daily improves their record to 11-14 The Irish swept a doubleheader yesterday and will open conference play against Rutgers this weekend. on the season. The Irish travel eastward this weekend to Hutgers for their first three Big 
_BIG EAsT SoFTBALL PRESEASON CoACHES PoLL
East games. 

:,•;<S./: 

"These wins give us a lot 
... ·~0ilm 
more confidence, but it's going 
orth Division -..... Points South Division Points 
........ ... . -~ .. '-"'"·""'"'"

to be a tough schedule," Miller 
1 Boston College (6) 27 1 Notre Dame (6) 27
said. "I think if we stay focused. and concentrate on 
2 Connecticut (2) 23 2 Rutgers (2) 23 one inning and one game at a 
3 Providence 13 3 Villanova 16 time, we'll do fine." 
3 StJohn's 13 4 Seton Hall 10 




Get Ahead 

Hey, you· don't do summer for fun. You do it to catch up. To get ahead. But you knew that. So if it's time to take care of business and you're heading home to Chicago for the summer, do it at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Our summer session's got more courses than ever and since we're a four-year research university, chances are they'll transfer easily back to your school. It also doesn't hurt that tuition is a great deal and applying is easy. So, what are you waiting for? Call us. Send e-mail. We'll send you what you need to get started. Come on, you can take it. 
For information about the UIC Summer Session, call 800-625-2013 or, in Chicago, (312)996-9099. Or, send us e-mail at: summer@uic.edu 
S E S S 0 N http://www. u ic. edu/depts/summer 
June 1-July 24 UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO 


Friday, March 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MARY's SOFTBAll 
Belles aim to build on success 



For March Madne66, 


By MOLLY MCVOY SportS Writer 
The Belles looked like the Braves on Wednesday, playing an outstanding doubleheader against Concordia University. 
Saint Mary's defeated Concordia 10-3 in the first game and 9-1 in the second, which advanced the Belles record to an outstanding 9-3. 
Saint Mary's had phenomenal pitching and effective batting. Concordia made a few key errors and the Belles took advantage of every chance they got. 
The winning pitcher for the first game was senior co-cap-
John M.Marshall's, Inc. 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 
-
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold or Platinum. Thinking of purchasing a diamond? ~ Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
call your 
271-1177 Notre Dame 1827 South Bend Avenue 
271-PAPA Saint Mary's North Village Mall 52568 U.S. 31 North 
tain Liz Shevik. She pitched the entire game and held Concordia to only three runs. Becky Miller help!fd the Belles tremendously on the offensive end, going four for four with fovr RBI's and a double. 
The second game was simi­larly suberb. Saint Mary's hit very well and took advantage of Concordia's sometimes imper­fect fielding. 
The winning pitcher for Saint 
Mary's  was freshman Anne  
Senger.  She pitched strong the  
entire  game  and  held  

Concordia to only one run, accumulating five strikeouts in the game. Again, Becky Miller batted very well, going two for three with a double and three runs scored. Her combined batting average for both games was .857. 
Pitcher Anne Senger was very pleased with the Belles perfor­mance in these games as well as in their season, generally. 
"We played really well, and we're playing really well as a whole," she said. "We will try to continue to play like we've been. We start conference play in a week and need to be really focused." 
The Belles play at Hanover College on Sunday and then begin play in the conference against Hope College on 
Wednesday. 

Oe~U-e~"tirJ Tk fl-tk_t Rzza.l 
r--------­
•Ga . · 
: s 
I 
tOne I I I I 

I •
-~------.J 

Christmas in April Benefit Run 
'i: $,.II# ~ Plus 2-Mile Wall:: ~ ' ~ '5aturdai, Marc.h ~s. ll:oo i\M ~ '5tepan Center T-~irtfl to a\\ \4gif,trantfl \4gister in Mvanc.e at \4c:5ports $!,.QO In Mvanc.e or $1.00 Da~ of ~c.~~: •. 
~I 

" 'f>tudent and ~taff Divisions '~1:·,; 
I 

1\\\ 'Proc.udt» to ~enefit Ghri&~ m ~ 
R--~ 

Voted ''Best· Delivered Pizza 11 ....___________.The 1997, '96, '95, '94, &'9:3 Best of Michiana 

Friday, March 27, 1998

page 22 The Observer· SPORTS 
• MEN's TENNIS 

Netters upset Blue Devils 

By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Ediwr 
i\ few weeks ago, Matt llorsley was patiently nursing a wrist injury, anxiously awaiting permanent employment in the singles lineup again. 
Yesterday, however, he revealed how eager he has IH'nn to end his workman's comp and get back to his voca­tion. Providing the dineher in No. 21 Notre Dame's 4-3 upset on No. 11 Duke's courts, llorsley has defined himself as the foundation for the Irish. 
With the match tied at 3-3, the outcome hinged on Horsley. With all eyes on him, Horsley slammed the door shut at No. 6 to defeat Marko Cerenko, 6-2, 6-7, 6-2. 
"Matt was a real warrior for us today," head coach Bob Bayliss said. "His back was stilling up and he was in a lot of pain, but he made the adjustment to Ceranko's back­hand." 
The sophomore also served as the symbol of supremacy in doubles. combining with Hyan Sachire to defeat Ted Hueger and Sebastien Gobbi 8-6. 
Danny Hothschild and Vijay Freeman also paired up to down Jordan Wile and Hamsey Smith, 8-4. 
The only duo who stumbled was Brian Patterson and .Jakub Pietrowski. The pair has tripped up late­ly and fell 6-8 to the Blue Devils. 

Nevertheless, tlH' Irish gained tlw doubles point to head into singles with the 1-0 lead. 
But the Irish were put to the test, forced to fight for every point in singles. The Observer/Joe Stark 
Notre Dame Matt Horsley's gutsy performance provided the struggled at the clinching point in yesterday's victory over Duke. three through 
No. 2 position, played a phe­
five positions. Hothschild, nomenal match to eliminate
Patterson and Enloe all fell vic­Dmitry Muzyka in just two sets,tim to the Blue Devils in just 6-2. 6-2. 
two sets. 
Sachire, Pietrowski, and 
12, the Irish continue to domi­
Horsley. however, exhausted 
Listen this Sunday to WSND-FM 88.9 from 5 to 6 p,m.. for an -interview with Father Ted Hesburgh 
=· ..:«~· ·.... .... 

The Observer is now accepting applications for Advertising Account Executives for the remainder of 1998 thru 1998-1999 school year. Any interested freshmen should drop 

:New (]3eginnings 
Jl fitness cfass designedespecia[[y for individuafs new to group e:zyrcise or wlio liave Geen sedentaryfor 
"~!f('/~7 some time. 
~'\...\.'''-.r,..?.k.

~N,2~ -str~ngtfi -j{exj6iEity ~~~~ --Io zmpact choreography 
li Tue~day~/Thur~day~ 
3/31-5/14 12:15-12:45 $15 R~RC Regi~ter @ Rec~port~ today! 
-·' That's what graduate students may be saying if they rent somewhere else. Because our residents enjoy all the room they need to relax and 
unwind. The gas is included in your rent, so you'll stay warm and cozy every winter for free! And our tennis courts and swimming pool will help you relieve the stress of graduate school. And if that's not 
.. 
enough, you also get a reduced security deposit of $50.00, no application fee, and a $20.00 monthly graduate student discount. And ask about our priority waiting list program if you'd prefer to wait until August to move. Talk about the luck of the Irish! So what the!#?*& are you waiting for? Come see today. 

Williamsburg 

EQUAl. HOUSII«i 
OPPORTUNITY

eL Gl 
Williamsburg On the Lake 302 Village Dr. Mishawaka. Indiana 46545 Phone # 25G-D237 



themselves in order to exorcise the demons, advancing the Irish record to 13-3. 
Sachire, ranked 20th nation­ally in singles, perfected with each set to uproot the core of Duke's talent. Sachire defeated Hoot, who was ranked eighth in the nation, 3-6, 6-4, 6-0. 
"Sach deserves a lot of cred­it," Bayiss said. "He played hard for us and really pulled through. It was a big win." 
Pietrowksi. although in the midst of a healing process, seemed to have the easiest time. The senior, who is at the nate the top teams in tennis. And if their anchor Horsley can keep afloat, the Irish will most likely experience smooth sailing for the remainder of their gru­eling two-month road trip. 
"It was a great day for the Irish," Bayliss said. ''I'm really proud of these guys and we're going savor it." 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

--------~--------­
Friday, March 27, 2998 
DILBERT 
CAN YOU SPARE ANY OFFICE SUPPLIES'? I'M ON AN UNOE.RFUNDE.D 
PROJTCT. 
I 
rr======]J::::==:==frl "' 
•
E 
w 

CROSSWORD 
"0 
() 
-' 
0 
@ 
"' 
"' 
" 
a 
"' 
I­I­
"' 
0 
() 

--~-~~--~­
---~-~--~-------------~---~~--~~-~~--­
HOW ABOUT A. TI-\R£E­
RING BINDE.R WITH 
ONE RING'? 
ACROSS 25 Possesses 63 Artist's work 28 Shirt or dress 64 Flip out 
1 "Gee 
32 Monet supply? 65 Jazz lingo

whillikers!" 
35 What to make a 66 Location

5 Like a good 
dep. into 67--Dame

lounge chair 
37 Dweeb 68 Preowned

10 Go steady with 
38 Allude (to) 69 Kilt wearer

14 Follow, as 
40 60's sitcom/ 10 Kills, as a

orders 
90's movie dragon

15 "... like a big 
43 Individually 71 Emperor with a
pizza pie, that's 
owned burning

--" (old song 
apartment ambition?

lyric) 
44 Opposite of a 

16 Russian river or 
thinker

mountain 
45 Airport DOWN 

17 "St. Elmo's 
conveyance 

1 Credit card color
Fire" actor Rob 
46 Sweltering 

2 Clarinet cousin 
18 Sinks one's 
47 Invisible 
3 Stitched 

teeth into 
troublemaker 

4 Laughing-­
t9ls sick 
50 Where the iris is 

5 Where to get a
2060's sitcom/ 51 Knot 
taxi

90's movie 
52 "Hold on a 
__,.. 6 Exclude 

23 Aardvark's tidbit 
7 Butterfly's 

24 Lumberjack's 54 60's sitcom/ 
cousin

tool 90's movie 8 Liberate 9 Flunky 
10 One of the 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Allman Brothers ~c:::-r.,...,.,.,:-:T:-, 11 Operatic solo .::..+::=...f~.;.+:,~ 12 Baby powder ingredient 7-t:::+.;....r.-:-t::-f 13 Otherwise .-:.::t'4::+~:-+:::~ 21 Gerund's end 
1msn••• 22 Bonus

~=+':'+.;::':+::-25 "Down the --!"(drinker's toast) 26 Sound before ..,..,-+"+"-l "Gesundheit!" 27 Bloodhound's ..:::i'='+:=-fl!.. trail ~~~=+:-:+=-+::+::-l 29 English author Charles -=-+=++~+.:-E+=-8 30 1983 Michael Keaton comedy 
movies...cushing...this week...be there... 
The Observer • TODAY 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL 1"\ELT INTO THE BACKGROUND AND LE.T 
YOU GE.T 5A.CK TO YOUR 
PALACE. AND YOUR FANCY COFFEE. 
I 


31 Ford flop 32 Flaming 33 Pass-the-baton 
race 

34 Product sample's invitation 
36 Little bit 39CPR practitioner 41 Calf, to a 
cowboy 42 Flying toys 48 Acts as king 49 Born as 51 Den appliance 
page 23 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: Pick and choose the team you most want to join today. Strange ideas are cer­tainly the most attractive, hut the associated results may he less than productive. Take your time when deciding. 
Taurus:When the pace picks up at work, adopt a flexible style. Digging in and holding your position will only cause increased resistance. If you must be overwhelmed, let it be a joyful experience. 
Gemini:Let your mind wan­der today, and be sure to keep talking so that your friends are along for the ride. Plans for the future begin in the strangest places. One story leads magi­cally to another. 
Cancer:lt becomes clear that not everyone understood the original plan. Certain gaps appear between actual and projected results. Stop every­thing instantly and go back to plug the holes. 
Leo:Nobody is going to agree with you today, so don't even ask. You might end up having fun if you follow someone else's lead for a change. A little knowledge wouldn't hurt you at this time. 
Virgo:You may be the soul of practicality, but sometimes you could benefit from yielding to sudden impulse. Spontaneity does not necessarily end in waste and ruin. Enrich your­self with a walk on the wild 
,,. ::-= 
4 Noftb 

Mae___ ar_oni& Cheese 
·nr Tater Tots . 

side. 
Libra:Romance happens on your terms today. Anything is possible, and most of the possi­bilities are likely. If you are not yet in a relationship, this is the time to do something about it. 
Scorpio:Use a gentle touch on issues of home and family. Choose your words carefully, and steer clear of certain thoughts. Your loved ones may not agree with your sweeping solutions to their problems. 
Sagittarius:This is a wonder­ful time to connect with many other people. The Internet was made for days like today. Surf with wild abandon, stopping here and there to stir things up in a chat room. 
Capricorn:Today is marked by your willingness to take an unusual financial risk. A big return requires substantial investment. Do not bet any more than you can afford to lose. 
Aquarius:Appearance isn't everything, although you cer­tainly look fantastic today. What really attracts attention at the moment is what you say or do. Be gracious when sign­ing autographs. 
Pisces:Logic does not have much of a place in your activi­ties today. Trying to decipher events as they happen will only be a waste of time. The reality behind all the madness will show itself in a few days. 

53 New Orleans cooking style 
54 Any Buffalo Bills Super Bowl result 
55 Grand, as an adventure 
56 Car 

57 Hammer or sickle, e.g. sa "Toodle-oo" 59 Grand Ole-­60 Workbench clamp 61 At any time 62 Start over 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Join The Observer Staff 
international film festival-sunday march 22-thursday march 26 
sunday-starwberry and chocolate/ monday-il postino/ tuesday-exotica/ wednsday-ridicule/ thursday-angels and insects free 8:00pm 
weekly movie-it came from outer space-march 26-27 
30 movie/ thursday I 0:30 pm fri/sat 8 pm/1 0 :30 pm/ 2$ 
e 
• 
• 

... SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, March 27, 1998 
• BASEBAll 
By ALLISON KRILLA Associate Spans Editor 
Baseball is a game of num­bers. 
And yesterday, sophomore Jell' Felker put up career num­bnrs as the Notre Dame base­ball team split a doubleheader with Northeastern Illinois. los­ing I0-4 before bouncing back l'or an 11-h victory. to break out of a hitting slump and snap a two-gamn losing streak. 
Felker rPached base eight times, going 6-for-6 at the plate with two walks to raise his bat­ting average from .170 to .254. 
'Tvn been struggling all year, and it's a nice time to break out of it." said Felker, who stroked four hits in one game for the first time in his career. "It seemed like the guys were pressing a little bit. just waiting for someone to step up. and once lwe started hitting!. it was 

• 

like an avalanche." 
"We've been waiting all year for Jeff Felker to start swinging the bat," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "Jeff Felker wants to do well. And he's been trying real hard, but he's just had some bad luck and he's struggled. Hopefully today was his day to bust out and real­ize that he's a pretty good baseball player, and start to enjoy the game again." 
Despite Felker's career numbers, the first game began where the Irish left off a 7-2 drubbing by Indiana Tech on 
Wednesday. Northeastern The Observer\John Daily Illinois jumped out to an The Irish bounced back from a loss in the first game to defeat NE Illinois. early lead and kept the 
pressure on, scoring at allowing three runs on two hits. ners despite belting nine hits, least one run in six of seven walking two and hitting one. including four by Felker and a innings. The offense failed to answer towering home run by Brant 
Irish starter Dan Stavisky to the Golden Eagles' scoring Ust in the third. lasted only 1/3 of an inning. outbursts, stranding 11 run-see BASEBALL I page l 6 
• r.... The Observer/John Daily Senior Jimmy Keenan hopes his squad will be able to start a new winning streak this weekend. Irish look to return to basics By ANTHONY BIANCO head coach Kevin Corrigan ing for any one standout to Spans Writer said. "We don't give up 13 carry the team against the goals to many people, and Statesmen, but rather the The men's lacrosse team most of the goals were our entire team to generate the started their season streak­fault." goals and stop the rush. ing, taking their first three With that in mind, the Irish "We need to play well as a games by a scoring margin of have set out to correct things unit," Corrigan commented. 38-22 and propelling them to this week, concentrating on As a team, the Irish are No. 11 on the NCAA polls. some of the basics of the prepared to play the style of The Irish failed to continue game that the Scarlet Knights ball that Hobart works. The the streak as they lost their capitalized on. Statesmen's strength is at next two, including last "We need to take advantage midfield, and Notre Dame Saturday's 13-12 home loss of the opportunities we had," will concentrate on breaking to Hutgers. The team is look­Corrigan said. "We need to up the plays before they ing to show that they can still finish our opportunities." advance to the attack, where burn the competition with Thus far, the Irish have had Hobart is deadly. Hobart next on the Irish trouble working on the Last year's top two chopping block. offense and finding the back Statesmen scorers are senior The team believes that the of the net, especially in the All-American Nathan Hoost loss against Hutgers was not team's first loss to Loyola, and sophomore Kevin due to a mismatch in the where they scored only eight DeWall. They are both team's abilities. goals. attackmen, and the Irish's "We gave that game away The Irish will travel to key to keep them out of the [to Rutgers]." Notre Dame Geneva, New York, not look-game lies at the midfield,  before the ball is worked to Hobart's front. "Our focus is containing their midfield," senior mid­fielder Mike Seaman said. "This week, the [Hobart] mid­dies will be more special to our game than with others. That is the key to their offense." Leading the Irish midfield corps in this task will be All­American Jimmy Keenan and Burke Hayes, both seniors. All-American goalie Alex Carle will made his sixth start for Notre Dame on the season as the last line of defense. When the Irish move the ball in th~ttack zone this weekend, they hope the focus of this week's practices will materialize into goals. Junior see LAX I page 16  

• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Bookstore season set for action 
By JOE CAVATO Associate Sports Editor 
Last night the ollieial opening of one of Notre Dame's ·nnest traditions started again as Bookstore Basketball held its captain's meeting. 
For those who lack the eourt savvy or tho shm~r sizn of varsi­ty athlotes, their only hopn for Bookstore fame lies in the name. 
The top l 0 team names of Bookstore XXVII were announced last night as the battle of creativity and insults was won by Me. Your Mom and a Case of Natty Light. 
;\s one might have guessed, tlw leader of our country was the source of many Bookstore team names. From the Presidential Kneepads to Paula Jones, Monica Lewinsky and Three Other Guys Who Suck to We Score More Than Clinton, this year's Bookstore names were filled with politcal com­mentary. 
Tnams had to walk the line line of b1~ing a littln too funny or offensive. Over 70 namns wnre not approved by the Bookstore Committee and the Student Activities oflke, who has the final word on such mat­ters. 
Some of the nanws that sur­eessfully walked that line of being as offensive as possible without being eensored fea­tured The Shockers: We Dunk In Both Baskets, Four Dicks One Jane And No Spot, 5 Girls Who Like IJribble, We Can't Even Beat Ourselves, Wee 3 
see NAMES I page l 5 
B.ntdt\5~1!~: 
X\ X{ VI 11 
· 1!'1J NamHS· 
Me, Your Mom and aCase 
.of Natty LightKacyanski, Lewinsky, and 3other smokiQ' ~qles5guys who prefer eating Qut to the dining hall AA is for Quitters Mike Tyson, Marv Albert and 3Other Guys who 
... 
The Observer/Tom Roland 


vs.Georgerown (DH) at Boise State, ~: Saturday, 12 p.m. 
April4, 1 p.m. 

!e a; •Men's tennis upsets Duke 
vs Kentucky, at Rutgers (DH), 
~ Saturday, 11 a.m. 'C see page 22 
......
'Aw 
Saturday, 12 p.m. 
at Hobart 

•St. Mary's adds golf program
• 
Track and Field 
~ 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 
at Purdue Invitational see page 21 at Davidson, March 27-28 Today, 7 p.m. 

w? ..e ~ 





