Catch Notre Dame's own 
• Two Notre Dame sopho­
UNABOMBER 
Ice
film directors as they show 
mores tore up the ice in Europe 
their work at the Student Film 
with the U.S. junior national
• Kaczynski pleads guilty to 
Festival this weekend. 
team.
Unabomber charges. 
Men
p. 12 
p.24
p.S 


Friday, January 23, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 76 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'Late Night' benefits county's Special Olympians 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
7p.m. to 4a.m. tonight
xu Joyce Center 
Zahm * Farley •Regina Cavanaugh * Stanford * St. Ed's Carroll * Lewis Lyons • Morrissey Pangborn *Fisher * Ho~ Cross Dillon • Badin Howard •Alumni Knott •LeMans ~ Pasquerilla East Walsh * Sorin Siegfried • Pasquerilla West O'Neill· McGlinn Keenan •Breen Phillips •McCandless 
Welsh Family •Keough 
Alums to 
•

Increase visibility 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
ll 
I 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association has planned a !j' series of events for next I, week, designed to increase visibility on campus of the association and the annually elected alumni board. 
"This week-long set of activities was a yearly event a few years ago, but it was stopped," said Mirella Contreras, Alumni Association representative of Alumni Clubs/Student Programs. "It coincides with next week's alumni board election. and we hope that it will serve to increase aware­ness of the board among stu­dents." 
All week, current members of the alumni board and the St u den t-A I u m n i Hel ati ons Group (SARG) will go around campus in what is being labeled as a "Say Hello Drive." The SARG members will wear shirts identifying themselves and all will carry free vouchers for combo meals at Wendy's fast food restaurants. The members will distribute the vouchers to students that approach and greet them. 
"The alumni board will be in town this week, and this is a way to get students involved and get them to know the members of both the board and SARG," Contreras said. 
The association plans to hold a scavenger hi-!nt featur­ing daily clues in The Observer and give out a num­
see ALUMNI I page 4 

The Dnemr/ll1ve Pienint 
By KRISTI KUTSCH 
Assistant News Editor 
Two hundred and eighty-three teams will compete tonight in activities such as broomball, kickball and mon­ster dodgeball in the 12th annual Late Night Olympics. 
The event, sponsored by RecSports, involves all the dorms on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campus­es. The purpose ofLate Night Olympics is to raise money for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
Late Night Olympics began with Sally Derengoski, director of RecServices and Fitness. As an undergraduate at Indiana University, Derengoski partic­ipated in IU's annual Spirit of Sport All-Nighter. When she came to Notre Dame 12 years ago, she used that event as a model for the current Late Night Olympics. 
Over the past 11 years, Late Night Olympics has raised more than $32,000 for the St. Joseph chapter of the Special Olympics. Kara O'Leary, the RecServices coordinator, said that "Notre Dame's check is the single largest check that they [St. Joseph Special Olympics] receive each year." Last year, over $8,000 was raised from the event. That money went toward buying uniforms for the Special Olympics basketball team. 
Money raised by the Late Night Olympics comes from a variety of sources. Every residence hall pays an entry fee for each team that enters an event. In addition to the entry fee, raf­fle tickets are sold in each dorm prior to the event and also at the Late Night Olympics. Prizes awarded for winning raffle tickets include gift certificates 



EINonsense? 
El Nino has less impact than predicted i 

By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Associate News Editor 
Everyone has heard of El Nino. 
With the barrage of media attention focusing on the impact the 1997-98 El Nino weather phenomenon could have on global climate, the world was warned to prepare for the worst. Everything from Indonesian dr()ughts to California mud slides were predicted during this El Nino season, and meteorologists and insurance companies alike basked in the media hype. 
What exactly is El Nino and how does it affect Americans? Is it really as serious as the media has claimed? 
"El Nino, also known as the donated by local restaurants and busi­nesses. 

The Late Night Olympics also spon­sors a Miss-A-Meal plan which helps to raise money. This year 1,400 students participated in the Miss-A-Meal activi­ty. Finally, donations are taken at the door and throughout the course of the night. 
This year all the awards and medals for the Late Night Olympics were donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association. In addition, Champion Sports donated all the T -shirts needed for the event. 
All the activities will be held at the Joyce Center beginning tonight at 7 
p.m. and will last until 4 a.m. There will be 16 events in total. A special event will take place at 9 p.m., when Special Olympians will challenge Notre 
see LNO I page 4 
I

El Nino-Southern Oscillation .! [ENSO], is a change in the il 
ji

ocean-atmosphere system in 
il

the eastern Pacific which con­tributes to significant weather changes around the world," Environmental News Network writer Katherine Hughes stat­ed in her October report on El Nino. "These changes include an increase in rainfall across the southern portions of the United States and in Peru and 
a drought in the West Pacific, affecting Australia and its neighboring nations." 
El Nino basically results in a slowdown or even a reversal of the trade winds. Thus, dur­ing an El Nino, the winds at the equator blow from west to east in the Pacific and bring warm surface water to the 
see EL NINO I page 4 

N
otre 
Dame 

students benefit from El Niiio winters, which often bring warmer temperatures to the Midwest. 
Left: a mid­winter thaw shows the green under­neath. 
Right: El Niiio winters since 1900. 
History of § El Nino. 
Tracking aG!Obfl MVStery 
B 

•-IJ!I,.., ................. ·~ -...... ----......
... 


,. 
~ . 


Friday, January 23, 1998

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIO£ COLUMN 

Finding the 
•

ttme 
As my first-grade 

Allison Koenig 
teacher proceeded to 

Associate News Editor 
call on each student in 
the class to stand and 

talk about our homework assignment, I could 
feel the sweat rolling down my back. 
It was the first, and probably the most 
poignant, instance in my academic career in 
which I had failed to do my homework. 
"I will NOT cry," I told myself, as I willed 
tears to roll back down my throat. 
"Allison, why don't you take your turn and 
tell us what you chose to watch on television 
last night for your homework assignment?" 
The task had seemed simple. Watch an hour 
of television, and then be ready to tell my class­
mates in a few short sentences about what I 
had seen. 

The problem was, I had not had time to 
watch television the night before. After school 
the previous afternoon, I had gone to my acting 
lessons for Junior Civic Theater, and then to 
the last half hour of my gymnastics lessons. 
After a late dinner and finishing some math 
problems, it was time for bed. 

When I explained to my mother that I still 
had to watch television for a homework assign­
ment, she simply shook her head. 
"There's nothing on this late at night that is 
appropriate for you to watch," she said. "Tell 
your teacher how busy you were tonight and 
that it just wasn't possible," she added. 
It wasn't my mom's fault that I was breaking 
out into nervous hives. It wasn't anyone's fault. 
As I stood to face my classmates, I could feel 
my face redden from the neck up. 
"I watched Sesame Street, and uh ..." I'm a 
terrible liar. Even now. 

"Urn, Cookie Monster, he uh ..."Why 
couldn't I remember a single Sesame Street 
plot? It was the only program I ever watched, 
other than the Muppet Show of course, and I 
had seen a hundred episodes! 

"He, the Cookie Monster, he uh ... " 
My teacher didn't buy it for a second. "Why 
don't you just sit down, Allison," she said gen­
tly. The tears started rolling down my face 
before I could slink back into my chair. 
For the life of me, I can't figlire out why I 
ever felt like I had failed in some way by not 
watching television. 

In a mass communication class yesterday, 
my professor listed a statistic which indicated 
that children watch, on the average, 25 hours 
of television a week. TWENTY-FIVE HOURS! 
PER WEEK! 

It's hard for me to understand how an aver­
age child can have time for three or four hours 
of the boob tube each day. On the one day in 
my childhood when watching television was an 
absolute necessity. I was too busy to do it. 
Maybe that's why I still hate extended spells 
in front of the television. I learned early that 
there are so many other things I could be 
doing, like going to acting lessons, or doing 
hrymnastics. 

As much as I tune into CNN, I groan every 
time we get the cable bill in the mail. There 
has to be a better way to spend $15 per month. 
But back to the children in this country, and 
population at large. We put too much emphasis 
on the television, and not enough emphasis on 
activities outside that tricky box of multimedia 
stimulation. 

I wish my teacher would have assigned us 
something different that night. Somehow. a les­
son in television seems completely unnecessary 
in a world where six-year-olds are going to 
overindulge in it anyway. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Laura Petelle  Joey Crawford  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Kathleen O'Brien  Dave Peining  
Sports  Production  
Sarah Dylag  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kelly Brooks  Anthony Shaker  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-compiled from U-Wire reports 

Texas A&M hosts 1,200 students at leadership conference 
COLLEGE STATION, Tex. 

College students from 70 different Texas and southwestern colleges will attend the 10th annual Southwestern Brack Student Leadership Conference (SBSLC} at Texas A&M this weekend. 
About 1,200 students, staff and guests will attend the four-day con­ference, whose focus is "Today's Black Leaders: Our Hope for Tomorrow." 
Sandra Medina, an advisor for the SBSLC and communications coordi­nator for the Department of Multicultural Services at A&M, said the conference incorporates history, unity, se.M'-improvement techniques, leadership skills, moral values and corporate America to inspire young black collegians to be productive leaders of tomorrow. 
"The theme of this year's confer­ence, "Celebrating 10 years of Black 
• INDIANA UNIVERSITY IU creates new diversity position 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Yesterday, IU president Myles Brand appointed a new position in minority affairs -a position that will "get things done." Brand will clarify the exact title, goals and duties of the position at an upcoming press conference at the Indiana Memorial Union. IU trustee Ray Richardson said the position will have substantial power to influence diversity policy throughout the IU system. ''I've complained for five years that there's insufficient authority on minority problems," Richardson said. "I think this appointment will get things done." Richardson said the Board of Trustees created the position because of its concern about low minority enrollment. The trustees did not conduct a faculty search because they already had someone in mind when they created the new position. Director of Communications DeAnna Hines said the appointee has not resigned from his current role at another university, which is why his name has not been released. But the appointee does have an IU connection, Richardson said. 
• YAlE UNIVERSITY 
Swedish crown princess enrolls 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Move over, Claire Danes. Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden has already arrived at Yale. "She's here," Dean of Student Affairs Betty Trachtenberg confirmed Wednesday. "She's a special student." Trachtenberg said the Crown Princess, heir to the Swedish throne, is living off-campus with her own security corps. Trachtenberg confirmed last night a statement from Nina Ersman, press counselor at the Embassy of Sweden in Washington, who said two days ago that the 20-year-old Princess would attend Yale. Last week, Agence France Presse reported that Royal Court spokeswoman Elisabeth Tarras-Wahlberg said Victoria will attend college in the United States "to give the Crown Princess the possibility to be left alone and carry out her studies undisturbed." 
• SOUTH 8ENO WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather«>forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.;.,... 


;H L 

q,~,~G.Q.Q (f ~ c::3 
Showers T-srorms Rain Fl~rrles s~o"; Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy 

With the aid of a 25-member A&M student staff, who have been prepar­ing since last March for the confer­ence, participants will be able to attend workshops and programs on 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather""torecast tor noon, Friday, Jan. 23. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
." • • ••• 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressum 
H L 


• IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY . 
Prof accused of sexual harrassment 
AMES, Iowa 

Micheal Simonson, professor of curriculum and instruc­tion in the College of Education, is in the midst of an administrative hearing for sexual harassment. He is accused of violating ISU policy, creating a hostile environ­ment and offensive conduct. The charges were brought against Simonson in February 1997 and resulted in the administrative hearing, which began in mid-December. After being postponed for three weeks by Administrative Law Judge Donald Bohlken, the hearing resumed on Wednesday. Mindy Gallagher, graduate student in cur­riculum and instruction, and Beth Kumar, former ISU graduate student and research assistant, testified in December that Simonson displayed inappropriate behav­ior. Simonson said Wednesday that he was informed in February 1997 of Kumar's sexual harassment claims. However, Simonson denied Kumar's elaim that he squeezed her knee and told her she "looked good." Design graduate student Kristen Wright, with whom Simonson had a sexual relationship, also testified. 
• STANFORD UNIVERSITY 

Research yields knowledge on brain 
STANFORD, Calif. 

A Stanford researcher working with members of sever­al different institutions has discovered a neurotransmitter that may provide insight into the function of the brain. In the Jan. 6 issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Thomas Kilduff. a senior research scientist and the director of the Stanford Center for Sleep and Circadian Neurobiology, describes the neurotransmitters -called hypocretins. The discovery of a new neurotransmitter is a major finding. "There are billions of' nerve cells, but only a few neurotransmitters, about 50, are known. Any time a new one is discovered, it is a major issue. We will know­more about how the brain works," said Kilduff. He added that the discovery could provide insights into various dis­eases. 
education, finance, health and rela­tionships given by major speakers. Attendees will also have the oppor­tunity to network with major compa­nies and students from other cam­puses. 
Medina said that although regis­tration is closed for the conference, many events are open for the stu­dents and community to attend. 
Tamara Raven, chair of the SBSLC and an accounting graduate student at A&M with three years of SBSLC experience, said this conference teaches responsibility and skills for achievement in a goal-oriented set­ting. 
"One goal of the conference is for African-American students to be enlightened by the information available and to pick up or fine-tune leadership skills and networking abilities with many different compa­nies and students," Raven said. 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, January 23, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




ND bites
Kim: Asian·economies need policy reforms 
assistant
By JOHN HUSTON last 10 years, and certain fac­the foreign market decreased, other Asian economies. This is News Wrirer tors must be addressed to keep creating an overvaluation of the key to I<.im's theory: when them out of financial disaster, currency that led to a fallout in Japan falters, everyone falters. 

counsel
If policy reforms are not said Kim. foreign trade. Therefore, Kim presents var­instituted, world recession may The Asian economies were "Domestic currency is too ious policy reforms that could 
Special.to!heObserver
occur, according to Notre strong during the 1970s expensive," Kim said. "No one curtail the threat. Dame economics professor because of strong competition wants to buy it." Asian coun­Kim's suggestions include 
Jill Bodertsteiner.formefly
Kwan Kim. in technology, according to tries have not been able to closing mismanaged Asian 
an associate in the Bryan
The economy in key Asian Kim. Stagnant productivity in recover from the trade loss. financial institutions, convert­
Cave law firm, has been
markets, including Japan, that and other fields since the Kim discussed possible impli­ing to a public corporate struc­
appointed asf!istant c.ounsel
China, Malaysia and Indonesia, mid-1980s has been a cause of cations if the economic decline ture instead of the current 
for the University of Notre
have been declining for the financial turmoil, Kim stated. continues. One possibility is a family-controlled structure, 
Dany~. a~corping to (!arol
As a result, investments in widening income gap in Asia and creation of an 
l(a.esebier., vice president
which would have a large International Credit Insurance 
and genet"alcotinsel. .
effect on the poor and working Corporation to reform prob­
~()~~psteirler, .·.a.. 19?1.~,
classes. lems arising from the interna­The most dangerous possibil­tional monetary system. N?tre i pame .· ~r~dua~e, 
ity, Kim said, is a world-wide Kim is a professor of eco­·······l'~ceiv~tt a }a\\' ~egre~ frnp1


Last Chance! 
recession, triggered by a domi­nomics at Notre Dame and is a ·..~~s}l~P.!Iton .•... i U ntver~!ty no effect of toppling fellow of the Kellogg Institute. ??IJQglo~ F~vv ·.. ix:t l ?~1 .. economies. He is a development economist •·•. ~~fQ~~ Joinmf:{ tB.~ st...&.91.1!~ Japan, with the world's sec­and occasionally serves as an ond largest economy, is closely economic consultant for devel­·······•~,V~~~?~~~;¥~~\c1·~~~c·•st~·~····· 
linked with South Korea. That oping countries and for •••·······u;.s, ··•••·••••·•··· .. Qhitrt~t•'••·· <Judge····· nation in turn, affects many international agencies. •····. ~a,t~~J'iP-e •·..·..•·.··· •• ;J>.erty <.. •.••···iii 

.~~ss?~rr~i~~stern•]?\stfi~t~114 W()%~~d as an associ(}.teJn til~ ~.~icagoJaw firm of 
~.eyfartll.. •····. .·. Shavy.1 
.. Fai~\Y~ather and ·~raldson. Sbe is a. member of th~ •Jlli~·?i~ al1~.lp~lfina .nltrs ·.and lias contritm~ed.•a.rti~le~ · ~9 jt;turnals of legal scpolar~ 
ship. . . . • . . ·····.·····•····.···········
W~il~.····~t .. Washingtpn .UI}Jv~p~i~~~iBo.~.e,rtsteiper .\Va~ tl)e ••e~itor •• or t1Je Jourl1,[.... or ..•.•(J.rball..... alld ~Rl1~~Il11JOTf;l.ry L~"';.Sb.e•...!tas.. he~I1 ¢QW91J·.for•••••th~··••8th grtl.~~·· §~~ls Sl~~ bfi~ketbaH ·•·•··.t~~ll1·<~ .~})tla~er. for.til~ ...· ··. p~J¢;t~?l:);ll.d t;ha.ml>e~ ~r .·....CPrpll:l~£ce r~rt~th MQtiy~~pll·········. ······ Ptogr:a.mlandJl pa,rticipant•···
in. ttl~ .rug·•···••·Bro.th~rsl~ig····· ·· ·· ·• .~i$t¢rs progr;;tt:rh 
i:iMffr:>-· 



PLAYING COVERS & ORIGINALS 

NO ADDITIONAL COVER 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 23, 1998 
El Niflo 
continued from page 1 
western coasts of North and South America. One of the key indicators of an El Nifio phe­nomenon is a warming of oceanic waters and outside air that could lead to increased thunderstorms and warmer or cooler winters depending on the pattern. 
"One of the problems with an El Nino is that each one is dif­ferent in and of itself," WNDU­Ch. 16 meteorologist Mike Hoffman said. "With an El Nino, pools of warm water stay in the West Pacific. Each time this happens, it is at a different strength, a difl'erent place and a different time. That makes it quite difficult to predict exactly what will happen." 
With the new technology to which scientists and meteorolo­gists currently have access, this year's El Nifi.o was predicted far before any changes in weather were apparent. Using methods such as satellites, moored buoys, drifting buoys and sea level analysis, this year's El Niiio was predicted to be one of the largest in 150 years. 
In comparison, the El Niiio of 1982-83, by many measures the strongest thus far this cen­tury, was not predicted or even recognized by scientists in its early stages. In retrospect, that El Niiio caused 100 inches of rain to fall in Ecuador and northern Peru during a six­month period, changing a vir­tual desert into wetland. 
Because El Niiio occurs at irregular intervals ranging from two years to a decade, scientists have been at a loss to pinpoint exactly when one will occur. 
Until this year. 
LNO 
continued from page 1 
Dame rectors to a basketball game. The Special Olympians will be wearing the basketball uniforms that they were able to buy with last year's Late Night Olympics' donation. 
Although the basic program has remained the same since its inception, changes have occurred over the last 11 years. 
"Late Night Olympics has become more exposed over the years," said O'Leary. "Participation and enthusiasm has also increased." 

"This year many people played up the storm," Hoffman said. "I think it is because they could predict El Niiio. They felt like they really had to warn people, but they really over­played it." 
In Indiana, meteorologists predicted a much warmer win­ter than normal. But Hoffman says that South Bend has had a pretty average winter season so far. 
"In the last week or so, we have been pretty close to nor­mal," he said. "A warmer than normal winter is happening in the South, with a lot of rainfall, but nothing as dramatic as was predicted." 
Still, past El Niiios serve as fuel for warnings of what this year's El Niiio might have done. For example, in the 1976-1977 El Niiio, polar regions were so cold that the polar bears did not hibernate. In January 1977, 85 percent of the ground was covered by snow at some point, with Miami, Fla., reporting flurries· and the snow drifts in Buffalo, N.Y., reaching as high as two stories. 
"You can't just say El Niiio is definitely going to do some­thing, because, no matter what, weather cannot be concretely predicted," Hoffman said. "It looks like it has been overblown this year though, because the effects are already starting to weaken." 
Everyone seems to place the blame on El Niiio for weather phenomenon. Hoffman reiterat­ed that although El Niiio does affect the weather, it really has not had that great of an impact this year. 
"The biggest effects of El Niiio have already been seen," Hoffman said. "It has already begun to weaken. In the sum­mer we won't see any effects at all." 

Alumni 
continued from page 1 
ber of prizes including gift certificates to local busi­nesses. 
On Wednesday, alumni and students are invited to play in volleyball matches on the courts of the Joyce Center. 
The week will end with the alumni board elections. SARG members will distrib­ute ballots for the election to seniors, final-year graduate students, law students and MBA students. 
Use Observer Classifieds 


{)~.] 

TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CTR MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 Plus $20.00 Initiation Fee 254-0460 
FREE DRINKS! 

I
7 nights from $299! ............... Includes RT .a1r, hotel. 24 nours of free 
drinks. .and w~kly p.arty s.chedule of 
&pnng bre.ak events! Organize 1 5 


5UPE11
freinds and EARN A FREE TRIPI 


tlQ (____., ,_ _,., ...-. ""-\ WlS 
~ ,...., Ml1l~f1 



MaTEL 

®
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Use::1 bxJks lx:u;lht ard sold • 25 categories of J3cJoks 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback t:xx>ks in stock 

• 
wt-of-Print Sa-\rc:h Service: $2.00 


• ~aisals larg:> arrl smll 
Open noon to six 


~toiCUM ' BAHAMAS 




r----------------------------------,
l.4 HOURS OF 

I •PRIVATE IN ROOM 

JACUZZI SPAS (FOR 2) 
•FREE 
CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST 

•FREE 
HBO, CNN, ESPN 

•FREE 
LOCAL CALLS, FAX •KITCHENETTES 


~------------------------~ 
272--9000 

Available to all students and parents with this coupon.
Tuesday through Sunday 


(no 10 required)
1027 E. Wayne 
QUALITY RATED 
South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232..8444 



Friday, January 23, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 

Bono's widow will run for Congress 
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. 
Sonny Bono's widow jumped into the race for his congressional seat on Thursday. Mary Bono, 36, said she wouldn't start her cam­paign for the April 7 special election until early next month so she can attend to family business and see to a memorial service for her husband, who was killed in a skiing acci­dent on Jan. 5. Sonny Bono was 62. A Republican in his second term representing the desert sprawl of California's 44th Congressional District, Bono will be eulo­gized in Washington on Jan. 28. "Prior to reaching this decision, I have had many in­depth discussions with my family and close friends. We all agreed that Sonny would have encouraged me to continue his work," she said. Mrs. Bono has never held elective offiee. The winner of the April 7 special elec­tion fills out the rest of Bono's term, which expires at the end of the year. 
AFP Photo 
Pope John Paul II, shown here with Fidel Castro, is visiting Cuba, an atheist country since 1962, for the first time. 
Cubans gather to hear pope 
SANTA CLARA, Cuba 
They came out by the tens of thousands, the biggest crowd assembled in Cuba to hear a Christian message since the first months of Fidel Castro's 1959 socialist revolution. In his first Mass in Cuba on Thursday, Pope John Paul II focused on family values. Speaking in Spanish, the pontiff condemned abortion as an "abominable crime" and lamented its accessibility in Cuba, and chided the govern­ment for closing the doors to Roman Catholic education. His comments drew applause from many in the crowd of at least 50,000. Although some at Thursday's Mass later voiced objections to the church's opposition to abortion, the idea of the pope coming to Cuba and speaking his mind was overwhelm­ing for those who described themselves as Catholics. During his five-day stay, the pope hopes to strengthen the church on the com­munist island and help expand its role in Cuban society. 

S&P 500: Composite 
963.04 Volume: 
-7.77 770,214, l 00
7730.88 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
fOMI!4t!i~ 11!,;1!;~1!. ·~ cuars~E ~ !.i4.1~ I!BICI; 
CIIAUS !BER:-;A.RTS) BKC SEMI CONDUCT  CHSR BKCS  170.00 46.81  2.125 2.75  3.375 8.625  
Cm~1f.TIC CTR·C  cosc  41.1 B  0.875  3.00  
ISTl. BUSINF.55  IBSDF  37.50  1.125  4.125  
DEPOMED I~C-WTS  DP~DW  29AI  0.625  2.75  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
EDISON BROTII·WTS EDBRW 41.0.1 ·2.00 2.1175 I'I.ANET ltOli.YWOl)[) 1'111. 11.74 3.3125 7.125 IOMEGA CORP 10M Jl.M 4.1719 9.016 DRANSFIELD CHINA DCPCF 25.00 0.875 2.625 INTEG RAT MED RES IMRI 24.32 0.5625 1.75 
Kaczynski pleads guilty 
AFP Photo 

Wanda Kaczynski wipes away tears after her son, Theodore, pleaded guilty to being the Unabomber. He faces life in prison with­
out parole for causing three deaths and 29 injuries. 
By LINDA DEUTSCH Associated Press Writer 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

In a deal that averted the spectacle of the government pushing to exe­cute a mentally ill man, Theodore Kaczynski pleaded guilty to being the Unabomber on Thursday in return for a sentence of life in prison without parole. 
Kaczynski sat unflinching as a prosecutor recited in minute detail the horror of his 18-year reign of terror -bombs that killed three men and injured 29, including one who had his arm blown off. 
In a calm and forthright voice, Kaczynski confirmed he had written in his journal: "I would do it all over again." 
The 55-year-old mathematics pro­fessor turned woodland hermit entered the last-minute plea on the day a jury was to be sworn in and opening statements were to begin. 
The agreement avoids the possibil­ity of his execution. Had the jury convicted Kaczynski, he could have faced death by injection. 
He will be formally sentenced on May 15. 
Afterward, David Kaczynski -who had first alerted the FBI that his brother could be the Unabomber, then criticized the government for seeking to execute him -appeared visibly relieved. 
"We feel it is the appropriate, just and civilized resolution to this tragedy, in light of Ted's diagnosed mental illness," he said. 
David sat in the front row of the courtroom, tears streaming down his face, as he heard how a man's heart was pierced by the shrapnel from one of his brother's bombs. 
Their 80-year-old mother, Wanda, 
maintained her composure, but handed David a tissue to wipe his tears. 
The defendant, who has been estranged from his family for 12 years, never acknowledged their presence. 
Outside court. Connie Murray issued a statement supporting the plea agreement. "He will never, ever kill again," she said: 
Her husband was Kaczynski's last bombing victim: Timber lobbyist Gilbert Murray was killed in his Sacramento office in April 1995. 
Kaczynski pleaded guilty to 13 fed­eral charges covering five bombings, including two deaths in the Sacramento area and one in New Jersey. The plea agreement resolves all federal charges against Kaczynski, who also admitted his role in Unabomber attacks in which he had not been charged. 
Arafat demitnds West Bank land from Israel 
AssOClA'fE.[) PR.ESs East agenda. 

. . ' Arafat>called the first fue~ting ~ricouraging. He told 
WASHINGTON reporters ·that Netanyahu had distorted the Palestinian 
Yasser Arafat demanded ol1 Thursdaythat Israel turn record on terrorism. ja.iling in Jericho the alleged killers over 60 percent more of the Wes~ Bank as President . ofan Israeli who Netanyahu had claimed were free to fre­Clinton moved to set up a U.S.-runmeeting between .quent coffee houses onthe.West Barik. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the Sitting down with Arafat two daysafter a similar session Palestinian leader in Europe. · with Netanyahu, Clinton said, "I'm convinced we can 
"We need some results soon," said Secretary of State make some progress." Madeleine Albright. who would mediate between the two Under the proposal for a three-way meeting, Albright feuding leaders. would mediate between Netanyahu and Arafat at a still­
After a morning session with Clinton, Arafat insisted the to-be-determined site in Europe. hoping to close a deal Palestine National Council had followed through on a based on a large Israeli pullback on the West Bank. in promise to nullify calls for {srael's destruction. He said he phases linked to Palestinian moves against terrorism. She had presented a letter to Clinton to bolster that statement. already has insisted on a sizable Israeli withdrawal and 
Albright called it "an important step.. but demanded also called for a freeze on building new homes for Jews tougher actions against terrorists. "Terrorists are waging on the West Bank or in Arab neighborhoods in Jerusalem. a relentless war against Israelis," she said. Arafat told reporters in the White House driveway that 
Clinton urged Arafat to do more to stop them. ''There Palestinians were entitled to 60 percent more of the West always is more that can be done,.. spokesman Mike Bank under agreements with Israel. That would be in McCurry said, "Thwarting terrorism has been at the top of addition to the 27 percent Israel already has turned over. the list of his concerns," McCurry said of Clinton's Middle along with Gaza. 
Friday, January 23, 1998

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
• CoAliTION CouNCIL 


Council discusses second semester activities 
mate. 

Earlier in the evening, the council heard from Peggy Hnatusko, the assistant director of Student Activities. about upcoming elections for leader­ship of campus organizations. The representatives from the 18 ethnic organizations on campus were given a Feb. 22 deadline to complete Club Registration Packs. 
Budgets for the student ethnic organizations will be published on May 1. 
Much of the remainder of the meeting was spent organizing calendars for the second semes­ter events. A full listing of these events is available through the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. The next Coalition Council meeting will be on Feb. 19 in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. 

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 

A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 23rd FROM 9:00AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 

The Jacques Maritain Center presents 


Jeffrey Sotinover, M.D. 

Dr. Satinover is a practicing psychiatrist and psychoanalyst and is the former president of the C. G. J ung Foundation of New York. He Holds degrees from MIT, Harvard, and the University ofTexas, and is a former Fellow in Psychiatry and Child Psychiatry at Yale and a former William James lecturer in Psychology and Religion at Harvard. 
An Orthodox Jew living in Connecticut, Dr. Satinover is also the author of Homosexuality and the Politics ofTruth, a widely applauded analysis of the current debate over homosexuality viewed 
from psychological, religious and scientific perspectives. Dr. Satinover 
will address the argument, advanced at Notre Dame as well as 
nationally, that the American Psychiatric Association's 1973 vote not 
to treat homosexuality as a psychological disorder ought to end all 
discussion of the matter. He hopes that his talk will contribute a 
needed perspective to Notre Dame's discussion of homosexuality. 
Tuesday, January 27 Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium • 8:00 p.m. 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
Officers of the 18 multicultural organizations on campus met last night to plan activities and discuss upcoming events for the second semester. 
Among the organizations with large activities planned for the semester are the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which will sponsor Black History Month, and the Filipino-American Student Organization, holding the annual Fiestang celebration. 
Most of the content of the meeting centered around prepa­ration for these events. 
Lisa Wenzel, operations man­ager of Notre Dame Food Services, fielded questions from the council about the ordering and preparation of authentic ethnic cuisine for on-campus multicultural events. Several council members who have planned second semester activi­ties expressed concerns that the meals they have planned may not be available through Food Services. 
Cuisine for any on-campus event which is not purchased through Food Services must be cleared with Notre Dame Risk Management. Organizations must complete a temporary food service permit to serve meals at a social function. 
Wenzel told the council that 
the best way to avoid problems 
with Risk Management is by sub­
mitting food permits three to 
four weeks in advance of the group's event or by speaking on an individual basis with officials in Food Services. 

Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, addressed the council on several issues includ­ing Food Services and new office space which will be opening up in the LaFortune Student Center at the beginning of the next school year. All print media organizations which currently occupy the third floor offices will be moving to the basement of South Dining Hall over the sum­mer. 
"We have a large number of competing needs for a limited number of spaces," Cassidy told the group in response to several concerns raised by officers that the third floor of the student center would be used for admin­istrative offices. 
Council members then turned their attention to a memoran­dum published by the University Cultural Diversity Committee. The committee, chaired by Father Richard Warner, plans to hold another listening session for students looking to voice their opinions on campus diversity. The session will be held Feb. 18 from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
The memorandum also 
declared that based upon recom­
mendations at the last listening 
session students would be called 
to serve on the three subcommit­
tees that make up the organiza­
tion. Student leaders will be able 
to voice their opinions on acade­
mic affairs, retention and 
recruitment and campus eli­
--------------~---------------------~----------­
Friday, January 23, 1998 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Mexican folk group comes to ND 
Special to The Observer The group, which specializes dancers, marimba, harp, bass 
in the Mexican folk styles of hua­and percussion players. 
Sones de Mexico Ensemble pango and son, incorporates the The performance, sponsoredChicago, a traditional Mexican influences of Native -American by the Kellogg Institute for folk music group, will perform music, Andalusian music and International Studies and La today from 7 to 11 p.m. in the black music of Mexico. Alianza, is free and open to the LaFortune Ballroom. The group is often joined by public. 
. 

Grad Students 
Everybody· wants something from you: Your Profs want all of your free time Your parents want you to phone or write Your boyfriend/girlfriend wants. well we won't get into tt1at ... 
What about you? What do you get? 
Well. at vVillian1sburg on the Lake Apartments you get a reduced security deposit of only $50 AND you get a S20 monthly discount off your rent AND you get space to stretch out and relax AND you get a nice quiet atmosphere so you can study in peace AND every rnonth we'll feed you at our Resident Parties (and we serve real food. not just Ramen noodles and mac and cl1eese) AND you'll be known by our staff by name. not just your student 10 number. 
Oh yeal1. tl1ere is one thing you won't get -a gas bill. That's because your gas for your heat is included in your rent. 
And if that is not enough, we'll pay you sso every time we make one of your friends your neighbor. 
So let's review: 
~ 

$50 security deposit
G:t 

$20 n1onthly discount 
EQUAL HOUSING 

OPPORTUNITY Space. quiet. food. identity 

Wl1at are you waiting for? Call or visit today! 
Williarnsburg On the Lake
Williamsburg 
302 ViIIage Dr. Mishawaka, Indiana 46545
--oftthe Ldke 
Phone # 256-0237 
.• SECURITY BEAT MON., JAN. 19 
6:15 a.m. A University empl.oyee dicsovered a broken window in the Centerf?t Social Concerns. 
3 p.m. A Lyons Hall· resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Centerfrom treatment of an illness. 
8:30 p.m. An ott-campus student reported .the theft of her bike from out~ side the Loftus Center. Her bike was not locked at the time of the theft. 
8:43 p.m. Security transported a Dillon Hall resident. to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a $ports 

injury. WED., JAN. 21 
11:45 a.m•. A Fischer Gradvate Resident reported the theft of his bike from outside Galvin Life Science Building. His bike was not locked at the time of the theft. 
5:04p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft ot hockey equipment from a lockf!r room in the Joyce Center. 
10:10 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident reported receiving.harassing telephone calls, 
Got news? Observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
Undergraduate Summer.lnsternshlps e Environmental Research Institute, a jointactivity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in llaboration with the Center for Environmental Sdence & Technology 'vViUaward~ptotht~Ee Surt'oo~r ]9Qa·· at ANL in· Argonne~ ··It-. with a'toUow-up.· mpus·.researchappointment._in.t~~. Fal.l. ~~i~~~d~ r()~m 

& board.are. e~~~i~ed ·-t~~"t~~ :~2-;Bjii~ .GI~~~~"'!::~;;l~;:~~::i , · Student applicantsshouldh(;lv~·res~(Jrch·int~~~~ts·.ln·arc:\ environmentafly-related.. discipline (any fiekfg! ~tudy? ,,,_ , 

~~;:s:~~6,J/t~~~~~'(~~J~fJ~~~~J$;Hp';f$i;;s~ 
must be us citizens or perrnanentr~sidents, enrolled ot1 Notre Dame,. have compl~ted theirjunforY~arby May]998 and beregisteredtoreturnJn the Fallof199B.· ,, 
For more detail~,. C()ntactthe. Center forErwironmerltal Science.& Technol(;)gy: l52A Fittp~trick ~.~1.1; 631.~~}.(6. Applicapts wilL be ... . to cOmplete an application~ 
.':::;:::;~:.:: 

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  L-EADERSHIP  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  


7oz. Top Sirloin 9oz. New York Strip Pork Chops
ARMY ROTC 
Steak & Eggs Steak & Eggs & Eggs
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
$5.49 $7.49 $5.49 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call They're available all day long' But hurry in now because th1s special is available only for a limited time. 
631-6986 
423 S. Dixie Way Roseland 
• 

---------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------..r 
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 23, 1998 
Latest scandals could hurt Clinton's popularity 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
For five years, scandal and surprise have surrounded President Clinton, rais­ing doubts about his character but not seriously hurting his political pop­ularity. 
I n d e e d ' 
='""'--'LC_I_in...,t_o_n_... even as Paula Jones pushed ahead with her sexual harassment suit against him and Monica Lewinsky entered the public arena, the president's rating was comfortably high, above 60 percent. 
But this time the suspicions are so grave -perjury, obstruction of justice -that friends and foes alike agree they could sink his presidency if proven true. 
"The allegations are certainly very serious," Republican Senate Leader Trent Lott said Thursday. "If they should prove to be true, that's going to cause some problems legally." 
Clinton's former press secre­tary Dee Dee Myers told NBC: "If he's not telling the truth, I think the consequences are just astronomical." 
Clinton vows he is innocent, with commentary from adviser Vernon Jordan to support him. Even so, the current accusations have shaken the White House as nothing else has. 
The brash cockiness that has symbolized the Clinton adminis­tration has been replaced by a 
:.::/:::(::2?!::::::;::::-· ::;::: ·-··::::::;::_::::;::;h:::::·::·,·. 

somber, fretful mood. 
There is danger to Clinton that the Lewinsky suspicions will permanently damage his credi­bility and seriously weaken his hand unless the president can quickly persuade Americans the accusations have been trumped up. 
"I have a feeling that this is an embarrassment of such a mag­nitude that his presidency is going to be destroyed," said presidential scholar Henry Graff from Columbia University. "I don't talk about illegality. I talk about embarrassment." 
The allegations that Clinton had an affair with Lewinsky and then urged her to lie about it came to light just days before the president's State of the Union address, where he is to launch an ambitious legislative agenda. 
"I think most of that slides off the table when there's a feeding frenzy in the media," said University of Texas presidential historian Lewis Gould. "Look at the pope. All the sudden, he's a sidebar." 
There are fears in the White House that Clinton will remain under a cloud for months as Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr broadens his investigation to include the Lewinsky matter. 
"Whether they're proved or not, people are going to make up their minds about them, like 
O.J. Simpson," said University of Rochester political scientist John Mueller. "At sQme point, you reach a conclusion." 
Unlike rumors of Clinton's womanizing, these accusations involve his tenure as president and his life within the walls of the White House. There are momentous matters of law, the type of cover-up charges that 
Happy Birthday Kellyl 
Love, Betsy, Faith, & Melissa 



C~mme See Whae§ New 
0 0 0· 
• Spacious 2 1beJrooms (over 1 9 000 §<I:JJ:O 
drove Richard Nixon from office in 1974. 
"People discounted stuff in Arkansas -Gennifer Flowers, Whitewater -as being ancient history and not related to his presidency," Mueller said. "But these things -if true -are felonies committed in the White House." 
Clinton has the advantage, for now, the high popularity rat­ings. But quickie polls suggest a narrow majority of Americans are prepared to believe the alle­gations of an affair. 

"The allegations are false,"Clinton insisted Thursday. His wife defended his innocence. The president said there were a lot of questions about the case that were "very legitimate" and that Americans have a right to answers. More rather than less, he said, sooner rather than later. 
/?JlUY/Faint8rf~~~Jt fYJ~ 
Present 
Thurs, Fri, t: an 22-2 4 
7:30 Washington Hall 

Tickets $3 At Lafortune or ot the door 
JFto) 

• 
4 1blocks from campus (now yo1Ul. can sleep in!) 

• 
2 closets ancdl a desk in each lbcecdlr(Q)om 

• 
Secured entrances anJ intercom systems 

• 
A-mgust thru May Leases or 1 free montJh9s rent with a 1 year lease (a great way to store your stuff for thee summer) 

• 
Private,_({))££ street parking 

• 
Laurr11Jry JFacilities 

• 
Private 1ba1cony for each apartment 

• 
Whole floors availa1ble to lease ,_ 1bring all of your friends~~ 

• 
Now Leasing for JFall 1998 


Calli 23-4=9923 f((J)Jr the 1be§t value in ((J)ff=rcampu§ 

living~ 
Real Estate Management Corportation 


Friday, January 23, 1998 page 9 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Iraq still refuses to open all sites to U.N. teams 

said following a briefing by an official of the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
"There are still patterns of concealment, insufficient infor­mation provided by Iraq and generally a lack of coopera­tion," he added. 
In Baghdad. meanwhile, U.N. biological weapons experts made unannounced stops Thursday at university cam­puses, drawing Iraqi criticism that they were disrupting stu­dents' examinations. 
The state-run Iraqi News Agency said the inspections came during mid-year exams. It quoted an unidentified "responsible source" with Iraq's monitoring committee for the inspections as saying the U.N. experts were guilty of "unjustified pressure" because of their timing. 
The news agency did not say how many teams were in the field or which university cam­puses they visited. Weapons inspectors in Baghdad refused to comment on Iraq's allega­tion that they interfered with exams. 
Russia's deputy U.N. ambas­sador, Yuriy Fedotov, said cer­tifying Iraqi compliance with orders to dismantle its nuclear program would encourage Baghdad to allow free access to 
U.N. inspectors checking on its long-range missiles and chemi­cal and biological weapons. 
This "could only encourage those efforts which would ... dissipate the crisis" between the United Nations and Iraq over weapons inspections, Fedotov said. 
Fedotov said the United Nations could still keep tabs on Iraq's nuclear program through long-term surveillance that the United Nations would begin once active field inspec­tions end. 
The Security Council ordered Iraq to destroy such weapons in 1991 at the end of the Gulf War. The U.N. inspectors must verify compliance before the council will lift economic sanc­tions imposed in 1990 after President Saddam Hussein sent his troops into Kuwait. 
After IAEA official Garry Dillon briefed the council about his agency's inspection pro­gram in Iraq, Russian Ambassador Sergey Lavrov said Dillon's remarks "con­firmed our conviction that the file is closed for all practical purposes" -meaning that Iraq had complied fully with U.N. orders on nuclear weapons. 
Chinese Ambassador Qin Huasun said his government believed "the remaining issues in the nuclear field have been basically solved." 
"It is time to close the nuclear file," Qin said. "We fully agree that at this stage (the) IAEA should focus on the implementation and strength-. ening of its ongoing monitoring and verification plan" and stop inspections. 
The agency, based in Vienna, Austria, inspects suspected Iraqi nuclear facilities. The 
U.N. Special Commission, head­ed by Australian Richard Butler, is responsible for mis­siles, chemical and biological arsenals. 
Last Friday, the agency reported that Iraq may still be withholding information about its nuclear program, which Baghdad claims it closed short­ly after the Gulf war. 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS Russia and China urged the 
U.N. Security Council on Thursday to certify that Iraq has halted its nuclear weapons program, despite a U.N. report indicating Baghdad m<ty still be withholding information. 
Other council diplomats said such a move was unlikely as long as Iraq defies U.N. orders to open all sites. including presidential palaces, to international weapons inspec­tors. 

"We don't see any reason to close the nuclear file because there are significant gaps in our judgment," U.S. Ambassador Bill Richardson 
.·i< \heCJr-VlllCJz·es of 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
1181 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 4663 7 
(219) 271--7674 
Eurotan Tanning Beds · Lori is back! 







OINT 
page 10 Friday, January 23, 1998 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor. ........................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager. ............................. Jcd Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager.. ....................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, Ne":s Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged: 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4 54 2  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  6.31-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  6.~1-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


..... ··.·:f:·.: . 
• EDITORIAL . ' . 
So long, Lingeqf«ie~ 

For a time. ~eremy Lingenfelser wasj~~ !hel'~ he want¥~ · to be:on th~front page ofthe newsp~per~nd ip.the minds?!! , the student J~~dY• .•. His .··crus~d~·to recallM~tt (jtiffin .froiit th~ i? otllce. of stu(typtbody presig~l).t on the grQ~tJ~ pf..u~et}ll~~~; • behavior bad m~mbers or~t9Q.~~t .gQ~.~~~.~~~~)$,1:Jifii1pt1l~Rcl.... /petitions ci~~ulating· thrg~~hout ca;ilJ~lf.S· ~;ngenfe~st:~fT"promised those who signed Ius petition that thiS battle woill~ · be completed with an inevitable recall eletj~~Jl and a pr~ba~ · ble ousting ofa president. ·.•..·. . . . . .· ·... •( . · . ,, 
But. three ?tudent Senat~ n1eeti~gs p~y~ pa~~ed ~in~~ Lingenfelser's·.• initial·•. com~?tion ••••..•..••.•..•·• ~~~~()~t any..··sigJ:l•. ···~~•.•••• tingenfelser,)Heclaims..·.that the•.petitioh ~fj~ amplt:~ ... signar· tures, hundreds more than the required 15 percent needed 

,l 
for a recall election. Still, no one but LingenfelseJ: has seen the signatures. This is not to saybedoes not have them;sc~dal is always 
appealing, especially. when it.involves po}itj_c.~~ Jh¢;.she~r .l1Q\l; elty of sigllimrsomething tf1at could.rxPJPY~ Notre.·Da,me·~ studentleader front his office has enQugh mttter• appeal to ~et a .large portion of the· Notre Pame populac~ tofollow him i.~ his battle. . .·. . .... . . .• . .•·..·..•·· ... .•.•.. . .· . . . q; 
After all, Lipgen£elser thinksthat the 21 ~year~old Griffin has done somefl'r~tty horrendous. things: bein~. tlr'Unk atpubl!c establishm~pt~.> residil)g !Vitf1.~ix. \VOlllell~ ~!J.~>Il!i~slng .t~~ opening.·N~a.S~~,a~th~.• school ~~~r..·.~g~Ijf~~~.~~ }J~Ii~ve~ tQ(J~( these charges makeGriflih'~(for.the o(l,l~~:()~ ~t\ldefit body • president. He\Vants GrifllilO'lJ~•.hesa,ys, oocau~it is "the rig~t thing to.. do.·~. •Fortunately. yngenfelser .has done. "the .. right thing" by .at!!ftdoning a cause Jh~t.~as m1sguided .from th~ ···~·· start. ..··. ... ···.·· ·. ·•·· ·.. . . w · >r')''·' • . n; ....•.. · ..•...·.·.•..··· •·•·•·•••·•·•··•·•·•

Ungenfel~r .• may.still pre~~pt hi~ ... petiti~~;· ~x~~g t~ ~Q.tR~i''· sort ofevalua,~ion ofGriffints presidency, J!~ may eyetl do it:.:;·· soon, after he realizes that all he has done $0. faris to,yvaste;;:: the time. of Griffin, the rest of the Executive Cabinet of student 
government, Student Senate and especially those who both-' 
ered to consider his petitionatall. . . . ... ·.... .···•···· .. . .· ·.· .. ·.. . .· ....·.. 
The fact remains, .howeveFtthat Lingepf7lser's alleg~tipns were never,.really subst,antia~dor ... even•t1J~tJmMrtant; th~?; ethics comtiiittee of the Stud~fitSenate did nQtthinkthe ehar4b · acter ·accusatiolls ·against Grjj1ipwere gray~.~n()ugh, to Jnerit.····•• a formal in~estigation... Tb.~t leaves. Lingenfelser and his •••·····• friends to be the sole judge!) qf ethical behayi(}I\ But whQ ~~ , 
they to judge? · -' , -» ., -,
w 

One of Lingenfelser's main reasons for perpetuating hi~.,..,. 
petition w~i~at~~ \Vas"ha¥!pga goOd ~~.!!1ferhap$J'~f.'. ing a fellow student by overplaying unfounded rumors i~~~; Lingenfelser's idea of entertainment. The Griffin scandal was/ a good way to pass an otherwise lonely winter month and win instant notoriety. 
lingcnfelser has finally tired of the spotlight, it seems. and left his crusade for dead. Only one question remains: Why was he in the spotlight in the frrst place? 

If you are students, call your mother tonight and thank her. You probably were not around a quarter century ago yesterday, when the Supreme Court, in Roe 
v. Wade, mandated abortion on request. The principle of Roe is 

Charles Rice 


that of the Holocaust, that inno~ cent human beings can be defined as nonpersons and killed at the discretion of others. At least 37 million in this country have died by surgical abortions, and many more by early abortifa­cients. In partial-birth abortion, even the partially delivered child can have his brains sucked out and his head crushed to facilitate his removal. Your mother could have had you killed. But she let you be born. 
Why this bloodbath and what is the remedy? Two other anniver~ saries in 1998 point to the answers. July 29 will mark 30 years since Pope Paul VI issued Humanae Vitae. And Oct. 16 will be the 20th anniversary of the papacy of John Paul IL 
Humanae Vitae and John Paul help us understand that legalized abortion follows from the accep~ tance of contraception. Both actions deliberately separate the unitive and procreative aspects of sex. A contraceptive society needs abortion as a bavkup. And, as John Paul put it, contracepting coups "claim a power which belongs solely to God: ... to decide, in a final analysis, the coming into existence of a human person." If man makes himself the arbiter of when life begins, he will make himself the arbiter of when it ends, through euthanasia as well as abortion. 
"[T]here exist in contemporary culture," wrote John Paul, "a ... Promethean attitude which leads people to think that they can con­trol life and death by taking the decisions about them into their own hands." In Evangelium Vitae, he noted that "the pro-abortion culture is especially strong ... where the Church's teaching on contraception is rejected ... [C]ontraception and abortion are often closely connected, as fruits of the same tree ... rooted in a hedonistic mentality unwilling to accept responsibility [and] a self­centered concept of freedom, which regards procre~tion as an obstacle to personal fulfillment. The life which could result ... becomes an enemy to be avoided at all cost." 
In Humanae Vitae, Paul VI warned that, if contraception were seen as legitimate, "a dan­gerous weapon would ... be placed in the hands of ... public authorities." Today, coerced con~ traception as well as abortion are part of the utilitarian solution to the minority welfare problem. Blacks are 12 percent of the nation's population, but have 31 percent of its abortions. "When you're a minority," says Rev. Johnny Hunter, "you can't take that kind of hit and survive as a race." The federal, international, as well as domestic, birth control programs arc weighted against non-whites. As the Brazilian Catholic Bishops recently said, "The desired result [of population control] is always the same: to reduce the growth of the coun­tries of the Third World so that the industrialized nations can continue to exploit them and dominate them." 

The answer to the "culture of death" will not be found in courts and laws. A "culture of life" must be built on the principle that a person has transcendent right only because he is made in the image and likeness of God with destiny that transcends the state. Significantly, John Paul II will mark another anniversary on Dec. 9-12, in Mexico, where Our Lady of Guadalupe appeared to Juan Diego in 1531, leaving her image on his cloak. Less than a decade before, the Aztec temples of human sacrifice had been over­thrown. In the next few years millions were converted from the Aztec cult to the Catholic Faith. John Paul calls for a similar con­version from our own cult of human sacrifice. In Evangelium Vitae he asked on Mary to "look down ... upon the vast number of babies not allowed to bf~ born, of the poor whose lives are made difficult, of men and women who are victims of brutal violence. of the elderly and the siek killed by indifference or out of misguided mercy." 
We can profitably reneet on these anniversaries in 1998. And don't forget to thank your mother for letting you stay around. 
Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. /lis column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
''Democracy is a device 
that ensures we shall 
be governed no better than 
we deserve." 
-George Bernard Shaw 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, January 23, 1998 page 11 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Politics of Castro and Papacy Offer Contrasts 
W
e live in a world of pro­found change. Yet, nothing has changed in Cuba since Fidel took his place as the island's dictator after the revolution. Fidel took advantage of the Pope's arrival in La Habana to launch a series of attacks against the Spanish Colonization and Yankee Imperialism, which he blamed for all the conceiv­able ills on the island. 
After blaming the Spaniards for leaving behind "truckloads of blood­shed" in Cuba. he compared the war for Cuban independence (Spanish­American War) to the Holocaust. He continued to blame the Spaniards for all the "homicidal swords": communi­cable diseases, crimes and extermina­tion of native people. According to Fidel. the Spanish presence in the Americas is responsible for the death of more than 70 million native Indians and 12 million Africans. 
Then Fidel continued his exhaustive list of problems that are currently afflicting the world: economic misery, environmental pollution, prostitution, racism and exploitation of children. On the other hand, he painted a pic­ture of a Cuba that is a paradise of equality and culture without mention­ing once the atrocities he has commit­ted over the years and the absence of liberties he has subjected the Cuban people on the island to. 
The Pope responded with the expected character of proper protocol and evangelism. He spoke with cour­tesy about the difficulties the Church in Cuba has experienced. His holiness asked for an "atmosphere of liberty" so that " Cuba can open herself to the world, and the world, in turn, can open itself to Cuba." Except for this excerpt, the Pope made no allusions to the economic or political situation on the Island. 

Fidel spoke to the largest audience in his history after he took center stage away from John Paul II. The way in which he justified the revolu­tion in front of more than 3000 jour­nalists and dozens of TV networks from around the world proved that the dictator will make the most of the Papal visit to promote his dictatorial rule. 
What happened yesterday upon the Pope's arrival made one thing clear to the world: Fidel will not change any­thing. Conversely, the Pope will pro­voke many Cubans on the island to look deeply into their conscience, specifically with faith, familial and political matters. These reflections will provoke inevitable changes. Things in my Cuba will begin to change. 
Francisco Javier Cantero, Jr. Notre Dame '94, MBA '95 January 22, 1998 

Homosexuality: Public Opinion Guided by Politics 
Editor's note: The following com­ments summarize the theme ofDr. Jeffrey Satinover's talk on homosexual­ity. 1/e will be speaking at Notre Dame on Tuesday. Jan. 27. at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Dr. Satinover has practiced psycho­analysis and psychiatry for more than 20 years. He is a former Fellow in Psychiatry and Child Psychiatry at Yale University and past William James Lecturer in Psychology and Religion at Harvard. He holds degrees from M.l. T .. Harvard University, and the University ofTexas. 
Our society is dominated by experts, few more influential than psychiatrists. This influence docs not derive, howev­er, from our superior ethics or good­ness nor from any widespread consen­sus that we are especially admirable. Indeed, the extent to which we are cas­tigated represents the all-too-accurate skewering of our fundamental profes­sional claim: the pretense that because we know something about what makes people tick, we are therefore uniquely qualified to tell them how to lead their lives. Nonetheless, because Americans have become a nation dependent on experts. the same psychiatrist is at once lampooned and consulted for direction. For better or for worse, mental health professionals exert influ­ence that greatly exceeds the actual wisdom we demonstrate. 
In the early years of "gay liberation," this reality was used for the fledgling gay activists' advantage. They antici­pated that if the influential American Psychiatric Association (APA) could be convinced to redefine homosexuality, the other guilds would follow shortly thereafter and then so would the rest of society. Their plan was implement­ed with swift and near-total success. 
Consider the rapid change. In 1963 the New York Academy of Medicine charged its Committee on Public Health to report on the subject of homosexual­ity, prompted by concern that homo­sexual behavior seemed to be increas­ing. The Committee reported that: "homosexuality is indeed an illness. The homosexual is an emotionally dis­turbed individual who has not acquired the normal capacity to develop satisfy­ing heterosexual relations." It also noted that: "some homosexuals have gone beyond the plane of defensiveness 
'DECENT ARTICLES IN THE 
~EDIA CREATE THE MISTAKEN 
IMPRESSION THAT SCIENTIF1C CLo­
SURE ON THE SUBJECT OF HOMOSEX­
UALITY HAS BEEN OR SOON WILL BE 
REACHED.' 
DR. JEFFREY SATINOVER, M.D. 
and now argue that deviancy is a desi.r­ablc, noble, preferable way of life." Just 10 years later-with no signifi­cant new scientific evidence -the homosexual activists' argument became the new standard within psy­chiatry. For in 1973 the American Psychiatric Association voted to strike homosexuality from the officially approved list of psychiatric illnesses. How did this occur? Normally a scien­tific consensus is reached over the course of many years, resulting from the accumulated weight of many prop­erly designed studies. But in the case of homosexuality, scientific research has only now just begun. years after the question was decided. The APA vote to normalize homosexuality was driven by politics, not science. 
The scientific process continues to be affected by political pressure today. In 1994 the Board of Trustees of the APA decided to consider altering the code of ethics. The proposed change (present­ed by a man who is a prominent and vocal gay-activist psychiatrist and chairman of the APA's Committee on the Abuse and Misuse of Psychiatry) would make it a violation of profession­al conduct for a psychiatrist to help a homosexual patient become heterosex­ual even at the patient's request. This is in spite of the fact that one of the association's own professional stan­dards holds that psychiatrists need to accept a patient's own goals in treat­ment so as to "foster maximum self­determination on the part of clients." The final version read, "The APA does not endorse any psychiatric treatment which is based either upon a psychia­trist's assumption that homosexuality is a mental disorder or,a psychiatrist's intent to change a person's sexual ori­entation." The Board approved the statement and sent it to the APA Assembly -its legislative body -for final approval. 
A swift and fierce battle ensued. Enough Assembly members spoke against the resolution, because of its chilling effect on practice, to defeat it prior to a vote. According to APA members closely involved, even the threat of a first-amendment controver­sy would not deter tbe activists. But the turning point came when therapists who help homosexuals change -and a large number of ex-homosexuals ­made it clear that if the resolution passed, they would file a lawsuit against the APA and reopen the origi­nal basis on which homosexuality was excluded from the list of diagnoses. With that the activjsts retreated. Had the change been approved, it would have opened the door to malpractice suits and ethics charges against psychi­atrists who help homosexuals change in accord with their patient's own wishes. Indeed, the chairman of the APA Gay and Lesbian Task Force made it clear that the activists had in their 

sights not only psychiatrists who undertook reparative therapy, but eventually psychologists, social work­ers, and even pastoral counselors and 
ministers. 

Recent articles in the media create the mistaken impression that scientific closure on the subject of homosexuality has been or soon will be reached. Such actions as the APA 1973 decision and its recent deliberations furth"er rein­force unjustified conclusions in the public mind. Few understand the com­plexities of good biological research; most would be amazed at the extent that politics has corrupted the scientif­ic process. They depend on the accu­racy of the accounts in the popular press. 
Activists seek to create the impres­sion that science has settled these questions, but it most certainly has not. Instead, the changes that have occurred in both public and profession­al opinion have resulted from politics, pressure, and public relations. 
page 12 Friday, January 23, 1 'J98 
J 
tl 






By JANEL KILEY Accent Writer 
F
or the ninth straight year, the Notre Dame stu­dent film festival promises to celebrate the work produced by some of the most creative minds on campus. With the guidance of Professors Jill Godmilow and Ted Mandell, students in the department of Communication and Theater have created a variety of short films on subjects ranging from the hysterically sublime to the simply poetic. This weekend's selec­tions, as in years past, exhibit the bold experimental style of the University's talented individuals. 
1 All pieces are assignments in courses including Advanced Film Production Workshop, Intermc·diate ··~ FilrnNideo Production, Professional Video Production, and Introduction to Film Production. From these class­!\: es, 20 of the semester's best films are selected. i( 'I According to professor Mandell, each film/video requires an immense amount of time and effort, as each
:! 
l 
project represents at least six weeks of work. "Most people are shocked at how professional and 
impressive the films are," explains Mandell. "They are the accumulation of a lot of hard labor on the part of the students." Such creativity is expect­ed from the COTH stu­dents, as each class is taught on a graduate school level and demands 
quality films. 

While Professors Mandell and Godmilow 
•.I attribute the success of the film festival to the 
i;_ 
determination of their students, the COTH majors praise the dedica­tion of their professors. COTH majors Ann Goodwin and Denis Hurley agree that both teachers push their stu­dents to discover their material, and truly believe students come first. By working directly 
with students, the profes-Pete Cilella stars as Jimmy in th sors show their proficien-Orpheus myth. cy in both film production and developing the talents of the studt~llls. Alex Scheidler, a junior COTH major, comments that, "the professors' dedication is amazing," as evident from the countless nights and 12 hour days they spend working with the students to perfect their films. "We owe them a lot," he continued "because of how much they've given to us." 
ro·!';'/~/ r.·rr n(8.. \VI f1 r r G...Dl .. _) A. , . JLl J 1J/ . lJ c~J "Last Laugh" "Orpheus in Indiana" "Three Part Invention" "Pet Warfare" "The Mini Epiphany of Brent McGovern" "Daniel P. Sternan IV" "Bad Day" "COTH Classic Clip"  

Nick Kapranos, a senior COTH and history major, believes the films reflect not only the students' creative capacities, but the professors' personalities as well. "You can't just watch the films," Nick says "you have to actually think about them." The demands placed on the students result in intelligent films that contain deeper meanings in addition to the topical entertainment. 
One of the main purposes of the film festival is to exhibit the students' work to their peers. Mandell says, "films exist to be seen." Such works are similar to a 
,, 
play or concert as they are created mainly for audience 
/ 
.·~ 
satisfaction. The festival gives student directors the chance to receive feedback from other members of the student body. 
Fm senior COTH major Jen Porst, "the festival allows others to see the work of those who spend so much time making films." Kapranos agrees that many people don't realize the effort required in film production. He explains that in film making, "it takes a lot to produce a small amount." Scheidler concurs that being able to show films and see people's reactions i~ a big part of film making. He also says the festival exposes people to the short film which certainly differs from Hollywood­type films. He explains it is difficult to get a certain message across in such a short time, "condensing everything into a 10 minute segment is tough compared to 120 minutes of a feature length film." He hopes audiences will come to appreciate cinema as both an art form and entertainment as "the student film festival 


Friday, January 23, 1998 page 13



ACCENT 

t­
' I 
stretches the mind the way Hollywood doesn't." 
The combined efforts of students and professors result in a 100 minute diverse production of videos. This year's selections characterize Notre Dame film production in the '90s. The assortment varies from incredibly bold to simply eloquent -all of which repre­sent experiments in originality. In addition to "the COTH Classic Clip," a film from the 1993 student archives, several minute-long films highlight the lineup as well as longer videos. 
Starting it all off is "Last Laugh" created by Ann Goodwin, Jen Porst, and Nick Kapranos. The film reveals a bleak glimpse into the future which, according to Kapranos, "is a serious dark comedy." Goodwin believes the film represents a social commentary about the underside of humanity. This film. as many others, required a semester's worth of work involved in pre­production, actual shooting, and post-production. 
Contrasting this film is Joey Crawford and Alex Scheidler's Orpheus in Indiana, which re-tells the Greek love tragedy of Orpheus and Eurydice set in contempo­
. rary midwest America. Through this film, Scheidler hopes to give the audience some idea of why the story was told to begin with, and adds details of friendship and love to illustrate the flex­ibility of the original story. 
"Pet Warfare," by Denis Hurley and Brian Fremeau paints an abstract picture of a sin­ister, yet silly future civi­lization where human empathy ceases to exist due to the absence of household pets. The ingenious proposition to reinvent creativity as a result of this loss causes the audience to think about society as a whole. Hurley hopes viewers develop their own inter­pretation of the film while considering who or 

PhotoscourtesytheCOTHdepartment what actually leads SOci­~ modernization of the classic ety.
Other films inc! udc 
"Three Part Invention" developed by Andrew Phillip and Megan McCormick, which uses simple text to describe dreams and the way they are remembered. In "The Mini Epiphany of Brent McGovern," Shatki Chopra, and Anne Vales examine the consciousness of a sleazy TV reporter whose pro­duction of reality involves sensationalized and trashy stories in society. In Jeff Spoonhower's dark comedy, "Daniel P. Sternan IV" the goals and motivations of a cut throat business student are explored. Margaret Ruffing and Ryan Lutterbach combine efforts to create "Bad Day" which examines the twisted life of an eight­year-old girl. 
The experience these students gain from participating in film classes help prepare them for futures in film and video production. Hurley hopes to write, direct, and produce in New York or Los Angeles. Kapranos similar­ly aspires to create independent films after beginning a career in Chicago or California. Porst hopes to attend film school after completing her degree, and Goodwin hopes to pursue a career in produetion. 
Such goals seem attainable considering the success of past COTII graduates. Several alumni currently work in various aspects of the film industry. including set light­ing, special effects, audio mixing, and location manage­ment. Recent credits include contributions to "Fiubber," "Sense and Sensibility," "True Lies," and "A Perfect World." Students. professors, and alumni feel the classes offered through COTH aptly prepare them for careers in media, film, and television industries. 
The Film Festival popularity reflects the quality enter­tainment produced by the talent and hard work of those involved. The success of the festival in recent years prompted advance ticket sales in addition to those available at the door. Some shows have already sold out. For $2, this show is a must see. 
: ,. 


t:tr-.~; 
.;~_; 
......... 
·:. L-:4~ ·-~-· 
,..
.· .. 

By RACHEL TORRES original Greek myth to get a better sense of the story Saint Mary's Accent Editor and the characters. 
Originally from the Washington, D.C. area, Lessans 
has also lived in Rochester, NY before coming here to
. hen you sit back this weekend to ~rijoy the South Bend. As a seventh grader at the South Bend 
spect.atle that is Notre Dame's Student Film College Preparatory School, Lessans already aspires to
W
Festival. make · be an actor. He spoke with 
sure to take notice of _........,.,.,... genuine interest to_ the stu­young Jon Lessans. dent directors of his films Lessans is only 12 about which classes to take years old. but speaks in college, Perhaps with the maturity and inspired by their examples, articulation of somebody LessanS commented. "l much older, might want to direct, too. And he can act. Directing is fun because 
Lessans already has the directors are leaders." five student films under Senior Nick Ka.pranos hisbelt. He acted in two had the privilege {}f work­last year, and this year is ing with Lessans on some featured in three more. of his f-.:lms this year. "He's 
"I just really like to definitely a bright kid," act," said Lessans. "It's Kapranos said. "He's got a fun to pretend to be lot of talent ---· he's way something you aren't." beyond other kids his age." 
Lessans first became ''I've acted in radio com,. involved with the Notre mercials and plays with my Dame Student Film festi­parentssince I was 10," val when his mother Lessans comments. · · "I feel brought his attention to like I've been alive for an ad in the paper. His longer than I really have, interest was minimal at because of the different first, but he became parts I've played." much more excited about Tonight is the first time
Jon Lessans laughs it up with Dan Egan in one of this years 
it when he got called to Lessans will see himself
films. · 
act in his first film. on-screen in the completed 
One of his favorite roles films. "I'm not too nervous will be debuted in tonight's Festival. Lessans plays the aboutit," he said matter-of-factly, "if they weren't part of Orpheus' brother in ..Orpheus and Eurydice." good, then they wouldn't have been chosen to go in the Rather than simply memorizing his lines and showing Film Festival." up to read them, this 12-year-old took time to read the 

J.: ~.:.,;. 
~t/t~~ 
.... 

By KRISTEN DOYLE Accent Copy Editor 
I 
attended my first Notre Dame Student Film Festival as a sophomore. An English major, I was just a curious spec­tator, a voyeur of the COTI-I department, attracted by rumors of the humorous and sometimes odd short films. I expected a series of heavy-handed lectures courtesy of the Notre Dame "avant-garde." Home movies, waxing philo­sophical. 
What I saw, however, was an impressive collection of funny, pithy, insightful and sometimes elusive celluloid works of art. The overwrought Generation X refrains I expected were avoided and even mocked. The Snite audito­rium was transformed, for two evenings, into a small scale Sundance Festival minus Winona Ryder and the Miramax executives. 
What struck me most was that these people accomplished something that very few people ever get to even approach in their lives. They didn't just make a movie. They wrote, pro­duced, directed and edited a film. 
Let's put cinematic technique and intellectual content aside for a moment to allow my equally powerful, yet some­what superficial response. I couldn't believe how big the credits appeared on the screen. The wasn't just the kid that cut me in the deli line, this was a STAR. 
None of this occurred to me during my first experience as an audience member in Bambi or since. The individuals behind the scenes never held much interest. Filmmaking had existed as such a removed phenomenon, a product of magically-charged cities like Hollywood and New York. I figured that directors acted more as conduits for the movie god than artists in their own right. Or maybe they just told everybody where to stand and somehow through the divine and mysterious film development process the final product turned out exciting or heartbreaking or shocking. 
But this is not how it happens. Every single frame and every sound that accompanies it is carefully crafted by real people. And you can take my word on that because I was one of them, and this Friday at 7:30 p.m. I will join the ranks of STARS. Sort-of. • 
However, at the threshold of this moment, I have mixed feelings about showing it publicly. Certainly there are more traumatic events that have, and will, intrude on my life but this trauma is singular in nature. Who else but a filmmaker will ever watch a large captive audience of strangers pay money to sit silently, enthralled in something she created? A painter's work will receive polite glances from passers-by or a thoughtful few moments but rarely anything more. Imagine your term paper, blown up to obnoxious propor­tions and posted on the side of LaFortune. Everyone who started reading it had to finish it. Now imagine that you drew pictures to accompany it and you have never drawn anything in your life. Terrifying, isn't it? 
Making a film is like being a parent. Despite its faults. you love your little film more than anyone else ever will. Your natural inclination is to protect it from a cold. critical audi­ence. But, like any parent, sooner or later it's time to let it go. My film has reached adolescence and on Friday, my partner Nick and I will present it to our little world. 
There is so much hidden behind the end result, I want desperately to put a disclaimer on it. That tracking shot is a little bumpy but it looks a lot better than it did before edit­ing. And the actor may have garbled that line a little but it was 10 below outside and we had been shooting for three hours. And it is short but you have no idea how many hours it took to sync and edit. And maybe you don't get it but it is mine and I love it just the way it is. 
But I can't do that. It is what it is. I can only hope that my audience is forgiving and that the next one will be the one that turns out exactly as I envisioned. That's the one that will ultimately ring with truth and beauty and change cine­matic history forever. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all cla~sifieds for contem without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  2 BEDRM HOUSE FOR RENT  Pacers v Celtics Game  Hey, Students .  
...___N_o_r_Ic_E_s_  __.II'---~-1\_N_T_E_o_,_,.J  Models needed for figure drawing classes in the art department. Please call: 631-7602.  GRANGER-WASHER, DRYER, REFRIG & STOVE. $695 MONTH PLUS SECURITY  Sat Jan 24 Tickets on sale to all classes at LaF info desk unti11-23.  We really missed you at the basket­ball games during break. Welcome  
Aide to assist dyslexic  CALL BOB 232-6434  $35 for ticket, bus, lunch  back.  
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are goin~  student with reading and notetaking at Clay Middle  FOR RENT  6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.  Buses leave Stepan 3pm LAST CHANCE!!  From loyal B-ball fans  
fast Stop in at Anthony Travel's  School.  10:15·12:45, M-F,  WASHER/DRYER SUMMER OR  P.S.  See you next Wednesday?  
new location and check out the best Spring Break vacations around.  Jan 26-June 8; $6.00/hr No degree required. Call  WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  FALL272-6551  PERSONAL  Are you the biggest pimp to  
Don't take a chance with an  Asst Prin Vicky Thomas,  $195/PERSON  ROOM4RENT $128+util Share  ever play the drums? Stamper  
unkown agency or some 1-800  243-7145.  232-2595  house w/ grad stu: Kitch. livrm,  Bob is announcing open  
number. Limited space available, so  dinrm, bathrm. Good neighborhd  The Saint Edward's Hall Players  auditions for the remainder of  
book now!  Need child care 30 hrslwk.  House for Rent  280·5274  present: Rhinoceros  the year.  Call Matt@ 289·1168  
Anthony Travel, Inc.  Must have transportation.  Two Blocks from Campus  Thurs. Fri. and Sat  or Andy@ x1136  
Lafortune Student Center 631·7080  271-1935  4-5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for Summer, August for Fall.  FOR SALE  Washington Hall · Tix $3 at Lafortune or at door  Irish Connection Jan 30  
Attention Soph./Fr. Girls:  Includes Dishwasher,  
•••••  LEAD SINGER  *****  Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and  Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM,  more visual lab  
WANTED  off-street Parking.  Color monitor includes carrying  
••• ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO  I am a Soph. Rhythm Guitarist  MONITORED SECURITY  case, manual, etc.  Hugh Troy, a student at Cornell got  baby, that function is just screaming  
RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR  with ORIGINAL songs looking to  SYSTEM INCLUDED!!!  Call Greg @288·2654  hold of a hideous old wastebasket  to have a phaser diagram done on  
SPRING BREAK. GROUP DIS·  start POP/ROCK band.  Must love  Call 289-4712  with a real rhinoceros foot as its  it.  
COUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE.  all Top 40 kind of stuff.  Cannon Bubblejet 200e, new car­ base. He filled it with weights and  
LEISURE TOURS HAS PACK·  Call Dan@ x 0817.  tridge, $90obo. Italian drafting table,  ~1ed 30 feet of clothsline to it. He  Bouncey  
AGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT  4 or 5 bedrm furnished house, w/d,  $80, adj. drfting chair, $85. Chris  and a friend carried it onto campus.  Bouncey  
FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH  Watch faculty member's two girls  sand volleyball, 119 N. St. Peter,  631·9795.  Every few feet they lowered it into  Bouncey...  
PADRE ISLAND.  from 12:30 to 5:30 three afternoons  233-9947  the snow, their own footprints so far  
1-800-838-8203.  a week. Spring break off and good  Brass bed, queen size with deluxe  away as to raise no suspicions. The  And my first act after I take over the  
WWW .LEISURETOURS.COM  pay.  Piano player a plus. Must  orthopedic Mattress set and Frame.  next morning someone noticed  world...  
have transportation.  Call277-7071.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  New, never used, still in plastic.  prins and summoned professors.  
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  $250.00 219-862-2082  They followed the rhinocerus  To kill those who:  
Earn money with penny stocks!  ADVERTISING SALES INTERN­ OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  tracks. The trail led out onto a  a) Decide to stop and have a con­ 
Free information! Nords 2233 Adams Lorain, Ohio 44052  SHIP University Directories is hiring stu­ VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK.  TICKETS  frozen lake which connected to the school's source of water. There the  versation in the middle of dining hall high traffic zones  
dents to sell yellow page advertis­ 243-0658.  tracks ended in a large hole. IT is  b) Those who walk FIVE across the  
ILOST & FOUND I  ing for the official campus tele­phone directory this summer. Commission based pay structure.  8 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT  WANTED· NO vs MIAMI B-Ball tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258·1111  said that half of the population stopped drinking water. The other half swore the water tasted like rhi·  sidewalks c) Anyone else who generally annoys me...  
Training program. Excellent sales &  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  noceros.  
Lost: Gold and silver wristwatch.  marketing experience. Call1-800­ ALAN JACKSON  TICKETS  FOR  Brought to you by the cast and crew  I'm here, I'm there, I'm Big, Bad  
Huge sentimental value.  If found  743·5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.uni·  3·4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  SALE  of Rhinoceros. Jan22·24  Mark. I'm everywhere.  
call Becky x4215.  versitydirectories.com  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  277-1659  Washington Hall  


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NHL 


Ducks 'quack' seven-game losing streak 
Associated Press 

DENVER 
Teemu Selanne ·and Paul Kariya combined for a goal and five assists Thursday night as the Anaheim Mighty Ducks broke a seven-game winless streak against Colorado with a 4-3 win over the Avalanche. 
Warren Rychel added a goal against his former team and backup goaltender Mikhail Shtalenkov finished with 41 saves for the Ducks, who also won for the first time in seven games (1-4-2) in Colorado. The Avalanche lost consecutive games for only the second time this season. 
The Ducks took a 3-1 lead into the final period but had to sur­vive a 19-shot flurry by the Avalanche in the game's final 20 minutes. 
Kariya's 13th goal in 18 games this season gave the Ducks a 4-2 lead with 7:24 remaining, but Aaron Miller put Colorado back within a goal 
4:22 later when he beat Shtalenkov from just outside the crease. 
It was Miller's first goal in 31 games dating to April 4, 1997. 
The Avalanche pulled goal­tender Patrick Roy with 1:24 left but could not get a quality shot as they lost for only the second time in their last 14 home games (6-2-6). 
Shtalenkov, playing in his lOOth career game, stopped 24 of 25 shots in the first two peri­
\ 
ods to help Anaheim to a two­goal advantage. Colorado pulled within 3-2 when Selanne turned the puck over in the Anaheim zone to set up Adam Deadmarsh's 15th goal 2:43 into the third. 
Kariya, coming off a hat trick Wednesday, beat Roy on a well­executed 2-on-1 break with Selanne at 12:36 in what turned out to be the difference in the game. 
Leading 1-0 after the first period, the Ducks quickly made it 2-0 as Rychel beat Roy with a wrist shot to the stick side 58 second in the second. 
The Avalanche finally scored 
14:45 into the second on Joe Sakic's power-play goal, his 
23rd. 
Anaheim regained its two-goal cushion 6 7 seconds later when Dmitri Mironov blasted a shot over Roy's glove from the top of the left circle. 
The Ducks, shut out by Roy last Wednesday, came out of the locker room quickly as Steve Rucchin rebounded a break­away shot by Selanne and flipped it over Roy 36· seconds into the game. 
Mapleleafs 3, Blackhawks 0 
Felix Potvin stopped 23 shots for his second shutout in as many nights in leading the Toronto Maple Leafs to a 3-0 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks on Thursday night. 
The Maple Leafs got goals from Mats Sundin, Mathieu Schneider and rookie Yannick Tremblay, who recorded his first NHL goal. 
Potvin, who had backstopped the Maple Leafs to a 3-0 win at Detroit on Wednesday, also was in goal the last time Toronto posted back-to-hack shutouts, April 26 and 28, 1994 in an opening-round playoff series against the Blackhawks. 
The Maple Leafs last recorded consecutive regular-season shutouts in 1976 with Mike Palmateer in net. 
Thursday night's shutout was 
Toronto's fourth of the season 
and Potvin's third of 1997-98. 
The Maple Leafs, with Potvin in 
net, currently have not allowed 
a goal over a span of 124 min­
utes and 44 seconds. 
The Blackhawks were shut out 
for the seventh time this season. 
Neither team permitted many 
prime scoring chances through 
three tightly-played periods. 
However, Sundin broke 
through to give Toronto a1-0 
lead at 16:59 of the second 
when he shovelled a rebound 
past Chicago goaltender Jeff 
Hackett. 
Sundin, the Maple Leafs' scor­
ing leader, connected for his 
21st goal when Jason Smith's 
shot from high in the slot struck 
the right goalpost and bounded 
out to him. In five games against 
Chicago this season, Sundin has 
five goals and four assists. 
In the final moments of the second period, Toronto's Tie Domi broke in alone on Hackett and beat him with a low shot. However, time in the period had run out less than a second before the puck crossed the goal line. 
Tremblay made it 2-0 with 
6:05 remaining in the third peri­od when he beat Hackett with a low wrist shot from the left cir­cle. 
Schneider clinched the victory with an empty-net goal with 
1:22 remaining. 

Islanders 3, Blues 3 
Zigmund Palffy scored his 23rd goal off a steal with 1:51 left in regulation as the New York Islanders tied the St. Louis Blues 3-3 Thursday night. 
Geoff Courtnall scored twice in a 32-second span early in the third period to give the Blues, who are in an 0-3-1 slump, the lead. Paltry took the puck away from St. Louis defenseman Rudy Poeschek in the neutral zone and streaked in alone before beating Grant Fuhr with a slap shot. 
Palffy has three goals in his last two games for New York, which is in a 1-11-2 slump but has been playing better lately. Bryan Smolinski had a goal and an assist for the Islanders, who are 1-2-2 since coach Rick Bowness got a win-or-else ulti­matum from general manager Mike Milbury. 
Courtnall also had two goals 
Jan. 10 at Calgary and then was 
scoreless during three straight 
losses, during which the Blues 
scored one goal per game. Blair 
Atcheynum also scored for St. 
Louis, which played in front of 
its sixth consecutive sellout 
crowd of 19,766. 

Courtnall tied the game 2-2 at 
2:28 when he tapped the puck in off the skate of goalie Tommy Salo, who was backing into the net after coming out to stop a shot that sailed wide. New York then coughed up the puck in the St. Louis end and Courtnall had an easy tap-in after a slick feed from Pierre Turgeon for his 20th goal and the Blues' first lead. 
Courtnall had 1 7 goals all last season. His scoring has made up a bit for the absence of Brett Hull, who has missed 10 games with a broken left hand and will be out another week. Hull had pins removed on Monday and had hoped to play against the Islanders, but X-rays showed the hand hadn't completely healed. 
The Islanders took advantage of fast starts in the first two periods. Smolinski stole the puck from Marc Bergevin in the St. Louis end and scored unas­sisted at 1:20 of the first period, then assisted on McCabe's goal at 50 seconds of the second. 
Atcheynum scored on a back­hand at 1:26 of the second on an assist by Craig Conroy, who got past Bryan Berard and fed t~e puck in the slot. 
Flyers 4, Rangers 3 
John LeClair scored his 34th goal and assisted on another to lead the Philadelphia Flyers to a 4-3 victory over the New York Rangers on Thursday night. 
LeClair opened the scoring with a power-play goal 3:33 into the game. Rangers goaltender Mike Richter lost sight of the puck behind his net and Eric Lindros passed it out front to LeClair, who converted from close range. 
Brian Leetch pulled the Rangers into a 1-1 tie with a dazzling power-play goal at 
7:55. Leetch skated the puck the length of the ice and forced in his own rebound with his skate while lying flat on his back after being hauled down. Leetch's 12th goal extended his point­scoring streak to six games. 
Philadelphia took a 2-1 lead on Rod Brind'Amour's 22nd, another power-play score. Brind'Amour backhanded the rebound of Janne Niinimaa's shot past Richter from close range. 
Colin Forbes extended the Fivers' lead to 3-1 at 16:19 of the second period when Leetch was caught pressing in the offensive zone •and Forbes scored his fifth on the ensuing two-on-one, with LeClair assist­ing on the play. 
Friday, January 23, 1998 
:· ···-·.. 
••t•ll,fJFL ·::~;.;.;>······r·····•••·

:~a~i;, 

choo~cf>····. 

Grud~fi 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
After promoting their last three coaches from within, the Oakland Raiders went outside the organization for 
the first time in a decade Thursday with the hiring of Jon Gruden. 
Gruden. offensive coordi­nator for the Philadelphia Eagles the past three sea­sons, was hired to he the Raiders' third c.oach since 1?95, The hiring had been expected the lastfeY\{ days. 
···.. Gruden. 34, willTeplace Joe Bugel. who was fired Jan, 6 after .leading the Raiders to a 4-12 record in his only season. 
'\Jon Gruden is an · e~tremely .bright. percep­rtiy~;. ~alented. you~gcoach ·~ith an outstanding back~ ground•." Raiders executive a$~istant AI LoCasale said. · ..He) gone through an 
•·. extensive interview process here 'over lhe past few 
y~ars." 
Gruden had a follow-up 
•. ·.in~erview Tuesd(j,Y .~ththe R~iders. his rourtlt meetingwith Oakland officials in the pasttwo years. ' ~' 
Gruden, who al~o met with Raiders officials on ,hiin.• 8. had inte;fvl~wed twicewwith the Raiders last 
year .. -. when Oakland 
·q}'VnerAlDavisdecidedto · promote Buget · i,,. 
Gruden and his agent. Bob LaMonte. were not available for comment Thursday. Gruden was scheduled to have a news 
· conference next Tuesday in Ott.ldand. · .... .. c;t · Gruden will· be th¢<third:. youngest coach irl'iranchise history. Only Davis and 
John Madden were younger when they became Raiders head coaches. 



Friday, January 23, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• fENCING 

Irish fencers confident about weekend tournament 
By ANTHONY BIANCO In addition to team leaders fill our team this weekend," Spons Writer LaValle and Andrzej Bednarski, pointed out Annie Hoos, the the team will look to first-year women's epee captain. 
They've put their time in the starter Stephen McQuade to Once again, captain Brian practices. They've scouted out fence strongly. Stone and Carl Jackson will lead the competition. They've waited For the opposition, LaValle the men's epee squad. Both long enough. The Irish fencing sees the St. John's squad as fencers turned in a top finish at squad is now ready to show the having the strongest squad. last week's individual tourna­league its arsenal as it competes They will be led by last ~ear's ment. against the same squads it will national champion Keith Smart. The biggest question mark for look to defeat at the NCAA The woman's foil will be much the Irish is the men's foil squad. c:hampionships in March. This improved with the return of It will have to face Stanford's Sunday the team will take on Sara Walsh, who will fence in Tim Chang and Alex Wood, both Hutgers, St. John's, and her first competition since last of whom finished in top places Stanford, all NCAA powerhous­year's NCAA championships. last week. Chaz Hayes lost a es. "Its very tough returning, but first round match to Wood last 
the practicing is going well," she week.
Beginning the season against said. But Stephan Auriol, the foilthe league's top teams is exactly The foil squad's biggest com­captain, believes his squad canwhat this confident team could 
petition will come from pull it off this weekend. "We
hope for. With seven meets in Stanford's Monique DeBrun and were measured last week, andthe next six weeks, and then the 
Felica Zimmerman. Walsh we're certain we can hang withNCAA championships, Notre 
fenced with them as Olympic anyone. This weekend will actu­
Dame has no time to let its 
team alternates. ally prove that."
guard down. 
"I have no worries whatsoever 
All the preparations are com­"We don't have a Ghance to 
in the abilities of Sara and the 
plete. The Irish are now ready
slack ofT," said sabre captain 
rest of the squad," commented 
to take on their conference
Luke LaValle. 
team captain Myrah Brown. 
rivals, beginning with this week­
"Its better this way rather 
The return of Walsh to foil 
end's tournament.

than building up Ito the top 
means that last year's epee
teams]." 
champion Magda Krol will be As Annie Hoos stated, "We're 
Building is exactly what the able to focus solely on this fresh now, and all prepared, so sabre team has been doing up event. we might as well go out there to this point. Last week's indi­"Magda's return adds more and get them fthe top confer­vidual tournament was a depth to our squad. And Nicole ence rivals] out of the way chance for it to build its lineup. Mustilli and Sarah Ferguson will now." 
Spring Break Seminars 
March 7-14, 1998 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Ballet -RecSports will be All participants must regis­sponsoring Beginner and .ter in advance at RecSportsService Learning at one of 12 
Advanced Ballet. Both are on or before Wednesday, 

semester-long classes with a Jan. 28.
sites in the Appalachian region 
fee of $35, All classes will be Cross Country Ski Clinics held .in Rockne Rm. 301\ -RecSports will be spon· There will be an information soring three clinics this win­
Information Session: Jan. 26th, 7:30PM 
meeting on Sunday, Jan. 25, ter., The first clinic will be atl:30 P··lll·· in Roc~:n,e Rffi; on Saturday, .Jan>·3l•· at 11 
301. Classes will begin On a.m. There Will be two Saturday,Jan. 3L ' offered on Saturday. Feb. 7,
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
Jazz Dance "'"'--' A Jazz one at 10 a.m. and the sec­. , P~nc~ cla~s will hf3 offered :ond>on.e at~.p;m, 'fhe fee
Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities 
Saturdays and <Tuesdays ·for the clinic ts $5 with an from 12 tol~30 Jl.PJ1 (Sat:} additional.;.$4 rental fee if
Read the work of Jean Vanier 
and 8 to. 9;00 p.m;'('fues.) il) you .·.need .. to.· rent skis.......
. Rockne Rm. 301.>There Will Registration In advance·Js m be'f'ah infrirmati6Hmeeting required for all three cross
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
on Sunday.. Jan. 25. at 2 countryskiclinics;-M! 
Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants 
Head for the Hills!
Live with migrant families Information Session: Jan. 21st, 7:00PM 
~ Appalachia Seminar 
SOCIAL 
... 

CONCERNS 
THE SEMINAR
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
• Offers service work through various sites in Appalachia March 7-14, 1998
Theme: Environmental Issues 
• 
Is a one credit Theology course 


• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 


Direct contact with political, agency, and 
• Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
as site coordinators 

• Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 
Service and political awareness opportunities Information Session: Jan. 26th, 7:00PM 
INFORMATION SESSION Monday January 26, 1998 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 
All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
APPLICATIONS Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, January 28. 1998 40$ deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
CENTER FOR 

Fl!RTHER INFORMATION 
Sean Frey, Student Co-chair, 4-4911 Ryan Murphy. Student Co-chair, 4-1980 
SOCIAL 

Applications Due: Jan. 28, 1998 
CONCERNS 

Rachel Tomas Morgan. Seminar Coordinator. 1-9473 Jay Brandenberger, Faculty Advisor, 1-5293 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

The Irish fencing team will face three NCAA powerhouses Sunday. 

1 Shorin'*Ryu Karate / p.m~in Rockne Rm. 301. 
'·Tfiis sern~~ter-lpqg C()urs~ f)9wnhillSki .. 1)ip meets irt Rockne Rm~,2l9 on lteGS.ports \Vill be sponsoring'~ Tue~days>and ··'fbursd~ys a Downhill Ski trip to Swiss from6to 7:30 p.tx.:;starting Valleyon'J<:riday, Jan,· 30. Jatir¥29~ . .lPu mli~~register···..··The buse$.?\fillJ.~(i.Vetbe in advance at Rec~port~and Library Circle at S'p:mvand the fee is $18. 'A demon.:. return to campus at approx­stration will be held at6:30 imat~ly 11 p.m. Th~fee for P:P'l·•··on~'Iu~.~dayHJan< ...~.7r tho~e)needing.to ..r:.ep.~\~1ds .. i~ 
in Rockne Rm. 219; CaUl.:.• $28;·and $l9.fot 'those who 
8237for more information. will bring their own skis. 
Friday, January 23, 1998

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NFL 

Packers' Joyner ready to wear Super Bowl ring 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO 
Seth Joyner bristles when he hears for the millionth time how the world is rooting for John Elway. 
Poor John Elway. liard-luck John Elway. Sentimental favorite John 
Elway. Puh-leeze! "It's very difficult for me to 
have any sympathy for John Elway," Green Bay's 12th-year linebacker said. "He's a great player and I respect him. He's definitely a Hall of Fame quar­terback. But, hey, he's been here three times. This is my first." 
The 33-year-old Joyner signed with the Packers last summer after three wasted years in Phoenix, where the Cardinals never sniffed the playoffs. 
But his eight seasons with the Eagles were even harder. 
l 
"My years in Philadelphia were definitely wasted years because we just had too much 
talent not to win one or two
' 
Super Bowls," Joyner said. 

"I know exactly what he's going through," said teammate Reggie White, who played with Joyner on those dominate Eagles defenses before leading Green Bay back to the promised land. 
"Hopefully, I can help him get his ring," White said. "It means the world to him, all the work he's put into this game." 
A year after White left Philadelphia for Green Bay in 1993, Joyner followed Buddy Ryan to Arizona, signing for five
·! 
years and $15 million. 

"Obviously, from a financial standpoint it was the best deci­sion for me," Joyner said. "From a career standpoint, it wasn't that great because I was looked upon as a loser." 
So, Joyner was delighted when the Cardinals cut him and his $2.75 million salary in June. 
He rebuffed a $1.5 million offer from the Cincinnati Bengals, who promised to make him the focal point of their defense, and an incentive-laden proposal from the Dalias Cowboys. 
Instead, he chose a team that didn't even have a position for him. 
"I wanted to come to Green Bay because it's not about ...., -money anymore. It's all about getting that ring," said Joyner,I whose presence prompted the
t 
! tradeofWayneSimmons."For every team there's a small window of opportunity to get it done," Joyner said. "I knew the year when Handall Cunningham got hurt, our win­

1 (T,.~~f A.dvi.c~ TV~c~ l~ ; ' 
Cancun Z 8 
San lore $28Q: I 
London $2.18' 
Madrid $2.74 
...,.r ,.o-INDIAN.VOt.IS 

Aoll O(M ...,,, USll 0.. A., ..._Mot.ll &llf DO JIOf Dl<lUDt l.u:IS -·· , ..,,..._ lfl'altf• u ... uo. tlliJ'fiiiDI"' 011.,... Ns~•n1111 111n SftJCfiiT (0 .,.... H CfVIJDII F.un ~ "~ 1'01' M•Ain..-0 Ill UM 'SioUDII f.ltQ PI • ~f<' ., ~""""' llfs,.lctDn ,..-,.,. Ctou. 1'01' ~ Lo-DOIIIII!ST¥ ,...,~ ..... ~ ' 
~iiifii,jiu;:·:, ~ 
· 
' (1[[: fouocli .. larrrnal-al l." [du<aiiOIII [ld1112r 
[ 1-~~~-2-C~N~IL 
--~..:..~·2-:::P·~ . ...a..-·--.._. 

dow of opportunity just closed in Joyner began to make a regular 
Philadelphia. It was done." contribution as a situational In Arizona? pass rusher. "I was in a box room with no "He's one of the hardest work­
windows," Joyner said. ers I've ever been around." 
Although he missed the first 'ONCE YOU GET A TASTE OF
five games following THE PLAYOFFS, IT'S LIKE A 
arthro-WILD ANIMAL THAT EATS BERRIES 
scopick n e e ALL HIS LIFE AND THEN HE GETS A 
surgery, 
TASTE OF BLOOD. Now, ALL OF A 
Joyner 
SUDDEN, BERRIES WON'T SATISFY
played a key role in HIS HUNGER.' G r e e n Bay's sec­
o n d GREEN BAY LINEBACKER SETH JOYNER straight 
coach Mike Holmgren said. "You can see the desire in his eyes." 
"When I go home I have the playbook over here and the game plan over here," Joyner said. "It's not enough to say I know my 
NFC title. position, I need to know what 
The Packers traded Simmons everybody around me is doing." to the Kansas City Chiefs on Oct. The reward was Joyner's first 7 to open a starting spot for him. playoff berth in five years. 
After getting acclimated to Fritz Shurmur's defensive schemes, 
"Once you get a taste of the playoffs, it's like a wild animal 

Campus Shoppes 1837 South Bend Avenue South Bend, Indiana 46637 219-271-9540 
~i J
'----· . 
that eats berries all his life and then he gets a taste of blood," Joyner said. "Now, all of a sud­den, berries won't satisfy his hunger." 
Joyner knows this might be his last shot at a championship. His salary cap figure of $400,000 this year jumps to $2.2 million next season, and he realizes the Packers might not be willing to spend that kind of money. 
"And the odds of maybe me getting on with somebody else who has that opportunity may not be that great, either," Joyner said. 
In the regular-season finale against Buffalo, Joyner sat next to White during a blowout and 
they talked about what a long journey it had been. 
They talked about how differ­ent it was having Brett Favre & Co. making their jobs easier. Sure, they had Randall Cunningham in Philadelphia, but they didn't have Dorsey Levens. 
"It's just refreshing all the years I've played on good defenses to finally play on a team that also has an explosive offense," Joyner said. "I learned that you can't win titles with a dominant defense and a mediocre offense." 
Now, he's got both. 
"Just save the ring for me." 

UIT~R~ST~D Ui MJUmJU. JUn'S? iC~€D €X€RC~S€? l.tJ\RiC TJt~KWOiCDO fROM••• 

World Taekwondo Federation Club 
International Grand Master 7th Degree Black Belt World Championship Coach Pan Am Championship Coach and Referee Recognized by International Olympic Committee 
Come and join us for a BEGINNERS class starting this Saturday 
Class schedule: Saturdays Adv. 4:00-4:45; Beg. 4:45-5:30 Sundays Adv. 7:00-7:45 pm; Beg. 7:45 -8:30pm Thursdays?? Rockne Gym rm #30 l 
Questions? Call Instructor Anita 1-6869 

c:_t) Bed 'N Breakfast Registry Try the Option 
A "Home Away from Home!" 
FB-Grad-Fr. Or.-JPW 
219-291-7153 
$5 

CERTIFICATE $5 
ss.oo off certificate Atria Salon ss.oo on certificate 
CERTIFICATE GOOD TOWARDS ANY MANICURE OR PEDICURE SERVICE NOT VALID FOR CASH. CANNOT BE USED FOR RETAIL 
_MUST PRESENT CERTIFICATE TO RECEIVE SPECIAL SAVINGS 
(CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY) 

289 5080 289 5080 
$5 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend EXPIRATION DATE: 1·30-98 $5 
~~======~~:=:=~=:=::L~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 

Don't miss your chance!!! 


Summer Service Projects '98 
DEADLINE: January 23rd 
Applications are available at the CSC (Sign up for an interview, too!) 
-8 weeks ofservice-learning $1700 Tuition Scholarship -3 elective Theology credits 
C E N T E R F 0 R 
Questions???
SOCIAL 
Call Sue (1-7867) or Erika (4-1494) 
CONCERNS 

.·, 
Friday, January 23, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 


Marlins' Leyland may finish four years in Florida 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Jim Leyland, who said two months ago he probably couldn't wait for the Florida Marlins to rebuild, said Thursday he is leaning toward finishing the final four years on hi's contract. 
Leyland quit as Pittsburgh's manager after 11 seasons when the Pirates chose to rebuild from the bottom up, only to have the same thing happen in Florida, where the Marlins already have gutted much of their World Series championship team. 
The Marlins, who claim they lost $34 million last season, will report to spring training next month without Kevin Brown, Moises Alou, Robb Nen, Devon White aud Jeff Conine, all traded during the offseason. Also, No. 2 starter Alex Fernandez will miss 1998 following rotator cuff surgery. 
But after saying in November he probably would manage the Marlins only more season, Leyland seems content to keep managing a team he now believes isn't that far away from winning again. 
Leyland said enough offense remains in Gary Sheffield, Bobby Bonilla, Charles Johnson and Cliff Floyd for the Marlins to be competitive again as soon as their pitching develops. 
"We can be 0 K this season if we can just get some outs," Leyland said. "That's my big worry: Getting some outs. Dave Dombrowski (the Marlins' gen­eral manager) came back with some good young arms in those trades. They're young, and will take some time, but we've got something to work with. 
"Look at the Pirates. We knew we had some good arms in (Esteban) Loaiza, {Francisco) Cordova, {Jason) Schmidt and {Rich) Loiselle, but they took some time. Now, they can run a good pitcher out there every night." 
Leyland initially decided to return to Florida this season out of loyalty to lame duck owner H. Wayne Huizenga and his coaches, who are under contract for this season. Three -Rich Donnelly, Milt May and Tommy Sandt -have worked with him for more than 10 years. 
"I understand it (the rebuild­ing), but I'm not going to go through it very long. I don't want to get my butt beat for five more years," Leyland told the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette on Nov. 23. 
"The fire still burns for me. They want me to come back for one more year. I'll go back for a year and try to develop some talent." 
Leyland also said then he wouldn't rule out switching teams in 1999. 
Now, after spending several months at his Pittsburgh home relaxing with his family and pondering his future, Leyland seems more inclined to finish out his Florida contract. The Marlins helped convince him to return by shifting $500,000 from the final year of his $1.5 million-a-year contract in 2001 to this season. 

Leyland also is encouraged about the Marlins' hope to get a new, baseball-only stadium in Miami and the expectation the team will go after top free agents after the club as sold. Team president Don Smiley has an agreement to buy the team from Huizenga, but has missed two deadlines to com­plete his investment group. 
"I know they're going to put money into it," Leyland said. 
"That's why I want to see where this goes ... I don't want to get too hasty. South Florida is a good place to manage. I'm not going to jump the gun on this, so let's see how it unfolds." 
Leyland's newfound patience may be the result of finally get­ting to and winning the World Series, something he never did despite managing three clivi~ sion championship teams in Pittsburgh. 
Leyland was uncharacteristi­cally gruff and out of sorts dur­ing the World Series and tried to limit media access to his team. 
"There was a sense of urgency that it had to get done this year, that we might not get back," Leyland said. "I know I offended some people, but I said, 'We've got to get this done.' And now I know how tough it is to win a World Series." 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 




is accepting applications 


1998-1999 


Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 23, 1998. For additional information about the position or application process, con­tact Brad Prendergast at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 23, 1998 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
The biggest crowds at Super Bowl interview sessions have surrounded Brett Favre and John Elway, Terrell Davis and Dorsey Levens, Antonio Freeman and Shannon Sharpe. 
The defensive players get attention, too, but nowhere near as much as the guys who do the scoring. lley, even Reggie White wasn't engulfed by cameras. microphones and notebooks every single minute. 
Perhaps the focus on offensive players is natural. The Broncos, after all. averaged 29.5 points a game in leading the league. The Packers scored 26.4 to top the NFC. 
Yet when Favre, the NFL's three-time most valuable player, 
' . 
was asked what will make the difference Sunday, he didn't hesitate. 
"Defense," the Packers quar­terback said. "Pure and simple, whichever defense makes more stops. Defense does win champi­onships." 
Defensive stats indicate a standoff. The Packers yielded 
282 points. five fewer than the Broncos gave up. Denver ranked 
I 
L 
II fifth in total defense (measured 
I 
'I by yardage) amd Green Bay was seventh. Both were stingier vs. the pass than against the run, and both have peaked in the playoffs. The ddending champion 
•NFL 

Defense will determine Super Bowl 
Packers had 32 takeaways. one more than Denver. They also have more big names with White, LeRoy Butler and Gilbert Brown, while the Broncos' most renowned defender this year was Bill Romanowski -perhaps best known for spitting at an opponent and getting fined for dirty hits. 
The Pack also seems to have the edge in coaching. Coordinator Fritz Shurmur has a knack for putting together game plans that perfectly fit the strengths of his players. 
Greg Robinson, Denver's defensive coordinator, was criti­cized late in the season because the Broncos were giving up too much yardage and making mis­takes late in tight games. But the Packers claim they aren't underestimating Denver's defense. 
"We have a healthy respect for them," Packers coach Mike Holmgren said Thursday. "They stopped some pretty good offen­sive teams in the playoffs, and they have some veterans who have been in big games and some very fine young players." 
One of those veterans, Alfred Williams, thinks the defense has gotten more aggressive mostly because he's healthy and so is fellow end Neil Smith. 
"I think it just helps the whole defensive line to take their play up to a whole new level by see­ing us out there flying around and doing things that we can 
(. 
January 31-ll:OO AM Deadline -January 29 \\ .., February 7 -10:00 AM Deadline February 5 H H February 7 -2:00 PM Deadline -February 5
'· 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports j r I ~ $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
ll 
l} Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 
{t ;; R~~P~­
l• 



wholehearted commitment 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM • SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Saturday • January 24 • 8 pm 
TICkets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in Olaughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
T.:ketsa~::=a~ MOR£AD 
~~.-.-.ticket centers ~EmEI{..
. • . . I'OR THE ARTS Including Orbit MUSIC and LS. Ayres. NOTRE DAME,IH 
To charge tickets by phone, call 
219/272-7979 
To purchase online:http: 1/www.tlcketmaster.com 
do," he said. "The stakes are higher and when the stakes are higher, you have to be at your best game. I think that pressure has been on us as a defense to play our best games in the play­offs and I like it." 
Smith, who like Williams was bothered by triceps problems, claims what Jacksonville, Kansas City and Pittsburgh saw in the AFC playoffs is exactly what Green Bay will see in the Super Row!. 
"I don't think that we should change what we're doing from what got us here," he said. "It's been great plays and we played some great teams and we still don't get our credit. But that's fine. 
"We're going to throw a lot of things at them and, hopefully, something works." 
They can't possibly throw as much at the Packers as Shurmur will use against the Broncos. 



Hockey 
continued from page 24 

ing Switzerland and Canada. The 3-0 victory over Canada was the first ever by a U.S. team, and Dusbabek's goal was the highlight for him. 
"I scored the second goal against Canada, and it was just a thrill. My line had played hard all night, but at that level the goaltending is phenomenal, and to score a goal is just awesome," he recalled. 
The team ended up winning the consolation bracket, but had to settle for fifth place. 
"It was a little disappointing because we beat teams [like Switzerland] that ended up winning medals. But we really played very strongly following 
Wanted writers and photographers ! It's nottoo.late! 
..::~ 

Meeting Sunday; Jan. 25th at 2:00P.M. in Haggar room 302. 
Any questions call Katie at 284-5124. 
that first loss." 
Dusbabek finished with two goals and an assist. "I filled my role on the team," he explained. "They wanted a hard-hitting, forecheckin g penalty killer, and I tried to do those things." 
Simon recorded two goals and five assists. "It was a great experience," Simon stat­ed. "Both Joe and I got better individually. and we hope to translate that into victories in the CCIIA." 
Simon and Dusbabek have rejoined the Boys of Winter, who are about to begin con­ference play after a two-week layoff. The Irish play at Bowling Green tomorrow and at Ohio State on Sunday. With playoff hopes hanging in the balance, the Roys have been boosted by the return of their star sophomores. 




/). ~\.ll ,-VRAl E~EN,-~0--SPONSOREC. VY 1'~E ~EllO~G fNS,-ftV1'E ANO. lA AlfANZA. 

SVN£S r.E M£)(1~0 
FRfO.AY, JA.NVARY l"J, 1991 
lA FOR,-~NE VAllROOM 
7·11 PM AC.MfSSION FREE 
-
Friday, January 23, 1998 page 19
The Observer • SPORTS 

-------------------------=~--=-~---=-=---==-=--~~-=---------~---------~ ---------" 

The Observer/John Daily 
Sheila McMillen sank 11 for the Irish in their Wednesday night win over the Syracuse Orangewomen . 

Information meeting for those interested in the position of Assistant Rector for University Residence Facilities 
Brown Bag Lunch 

Assistant Rector Positions 1998-99 
Thursday, January 29 12:15 pm-1:00pm Room 105 Law School 
For Information Call: 
W. 8-ball 
continued from page 19 
center from Roann, Ind. Riley led three players in double figures as Siemon scored 15 points and Sheila McMillen tallied 11 for the Irish cause. 
"I thought we played pretty well," senior Mollie Peirick said about the win against the Orangewomen. "Ruth had another career-night, and another great performance. She's really becoming a key asset to our team." 
"I think that Ruth had put in a lot of hard work and it has really paid off," Simeon remarked. "We weren't able to have a strong a presence inside earlier on in the sea­son, but she stepped up and was able to draw some of their defense. I think her per­formance has really been the boost we've needed." 


This will be the fourth meeting between the Irish and the Friars, with Notre Dame leading 3-0. In their last meeting in Providence, four Irish players finished in double figures as ~otre Dame routed the Friars 97-74. Former players Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither both turned in double-doubles while Peirick turned in 14 points and 7 assists. 
But for Peirick, what the Irish have to do is what they have done consistently over the past month. 
"I think what's important is for us to play as a team, and that's what we're doing right now." 
... 


page 20 Friday, January 23, 1998
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS Friday, January 23 
• 7:00PM-4:00AM 
TIMES FOR FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED Joyce Center 631-6100
AT THE END OF THE FIRST ROUND. All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
All T-Shirts Were Donated by <£~ 
Be a Real Champion -Support Special Olympics!!! -$1.00 Donation Requested at the Door 
Zahm 1Farley 1Regina Keough I Welsh Family 
Volleyball Team A 9:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Volleyball Team A 8:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Team B 7:45 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Team B 8:15 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Men's Basketball Team A 9:20 Men's Broomball 9:30 Men's Basketball Team A 9:00 Men's Broomball 9:30 Team B 8:00 Women's Broomball 12:15 Team B N/A Women's Broomball 9:30 Women's Basketball Team A 8:00 Kickball TeamA 9:00 Women's Basketball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A 8:40 
Team 8 NA Team B 9:20 Team B 8:00 Team B 12:20 Nerf Football Team A 8:00 Wiffleball TeamA 9:20 Nerf Football Team A 8:20 Wiffleball Team A 11:00 Team 8 NA Team B N/A Team B NA Team B N/A Target Golf Team A 8:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 9:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Team B 8:15 Men's Soccer Team A 10:00 Team B NA Men's Soccer TeamA 8:30 Women's Soccer Team A 10:00 Team B NA Women's Soccer Team A 9:30 Team B NA TeamB NA lnnertube Water Polo TeamA 8:30 Team B NA Innertube Water Polo TeamA 9:30 Kayaking 11:00 Team 8 N/A Kayaking 10:00 Team B 8:00 
Lyons I Morrissey Howard I Alumni 
Volleyball Team A 8:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Volleyball Team A 7:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Team B 8:45 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Team B 8:15 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6IQO 
Men's Basketball Team A 8:20 Men's Broomball 1:00 Men's Basketball Team A 9:20 Men's Broom ball 8:00 Team B 8:40 Women's Broomball 12:15 Team B N/A Women's Broomball 11:011 Women's Basketball Team A NA Kickball TeamA 8:20 Women's Basketball Team A 8:45 Kickball Team A 8:00 
Team B NA Team B NA TeamB NA Team B NA Nerf Football Team A 12:40 Wiffleball TeamA NA Nerf Football Team A 8:20 Wifflehall Team A 9:011 Team B 8:40 Team B NA TeamB NA Team B N/A Target Golf Team A NA Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A NA Monster Dodgeball 12:110 Team B NA Men's Soccer TeamA NA TeamB NA Men's Soccer Team A 8:00 Women's Soccer Team A 8:00 Team B NA Women's Soccer Team A 9:00 Team B NA Team B 11:00 Innertube Water Polo Team A NA Team B NA Innertube Water Polo Team A NA Kayaking 9:40 Team B NA Kayaking NA Team B N/A 
Cavanaugh I Stanford I St. Ed's 
Volleyball Team A 7:15 Target Golf Team A 9:30 Monster Dodgeball 12:00
Team B 7:45 Team B N/A Men's Soccer Team A 111:30
Men's Basketball Team A NA Men's Broomb11ll 9:00 Women's Soccer Team A NA Team B 12:110
Team B N/A Women's Broomball 8:00 Team B N/A lnnertube Water Polo Team A NA

Women's Basketball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A 9:40 Team B NA
Team B N/A Team B 11:20 Kayaking NA
Nerf Football Team A 7:20 Wiffleball Team A NA Men's Racquetball NA Women's Racquetball N/A
Team B 2:40 Team B NA 
Knott I LeMans I Pasquerilla East Dillon I Badin 
Volleyball Team A 9:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Volleyball Team A 7:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Team B 7:45 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Team B 8:45 Women's Racquetball N/A Men's Basketball Team A 9:00 Men's Broom ball 9:00 Men's Basketball Team A 8:20 Men's Broomball 12:011 Team B 8:00 Women's Broomball 9:00 Team 8 N/A Women's 8roomball NA Women's Basketball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A 9:40 Women's Basketball Team A NA Kickball Team A 9:20 Team B 8:30 Team B 8:40 Team B NA Team B II:011 Nerf Football Team A 2:00 Wiffleball Team A 7:20 Nerf Football Team A 10:20 Wiffleball Team A 11:411 Team B 7:20 Team B 7:40 TeamB 10:00 Team B N/A Target Golf Team A 8:45 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 8:45 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Team B NA Men's Soccer Team A 11:00 Team B NA Men's Soccer Team A 8:30 Women's Soccer Team A 8:30 Team B 8:30 Women's Soccer Team A 10:00 Team B NA TeamB 10:30 Innertube Water Polo Team A 9:00 TeamB NA lnnertube Water Polo Team A NA Kayaking 11:40 Team B N/A Kayaking NA Team B N/A 

Siegfried I Pasquerilla West Walsh I Sorin 
Volleyball Team A 7:45 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Volleyball Team A 7:45 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-61011 Team B 7:15 Women's Racquetball N/A TeamB 9:45 Women's Racquetball N/A 
8:20 12:30
Men's Basketball Team A Men's Broomball i\ten's Basketball Team A 8:40 Men's Broomball 12:30 Team B N/A Women's Broomball 9:30 
Team B 8:20 Women's Broomball 12:45 Women's Basketball Team A 8:45 Kickball Team A 8:20 
Women's Basketball Team A 8:30 Kickball Team A 10:20 Team B NA Team B 1:00 Team B 8:15 Team B 10:00 Nerf Football Team A 8:00 Wiffieball Team A 7:00 
Nerf Football Team A 1:00 Wiffleball Team A 7:40 Team B 10:40 Team B 9:40 
Team B 7:00 Team B 7:00 Target Golf Team A 9:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 8:15 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Team B NA Men's Soccer Team A 9:00 
Team B 9:15 Men's Soccer Team A 9:30 Women's Soccer Team A 7:30 Team B 10:30 
Women's Soccer Team A 8:30 Team B 9:00 Team B NA lnnertube Water Polo Team A 8:00 
Team 8 NA lnnertube Water Polo Team A 9:00 Kayaking 9:20 Team B 8:30 Kayaking 11:20 Team B N/A 
Carroll I Lewis Pangborn I Fisher I Holy Cross 
Volleyball Team A 7:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Volleyball Team A 8:45 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-61(){1 Team B 7:15 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 TeamB 8:15 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Basketball Team A 9:00 Men's Broomball 8:00 Men's Basketball Team A 8:00 Men's Broomball 8:311 Team B 8:40 Women's Broomball 12:45 Team B 9:20 Women's Broomball 9:00 Women's Basketball Team A 8:30 Kickball Team A 8:00 Women's Basketball Team A 8:30 Kickball Team A 11:40 Team B NA Team B 12:40 Team B NA Team B 10:20 Nerf Football Team A 7:00 Wiffieball Team A 9:20 Nerf Football Team A 7:40 Wiffieball Team A 9:00 Team B 12:20 Team B N/A TeamB 10:20 Team B N/A Target Golf Team A 9:30 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 10:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00
: l 
!~ 
Team B 8:00 Men's Soccer TeamA 7:30 Team B NA Men's Soccer Team A 9:311 Women's Soccer Team A 10:30 Team B 10:00 Women's Soccer Team A 9:00 Team B NA Team B 7:30 Innertube Water Polo TeamA NA Team B 9:30 lnnertuhe Water Polo Team A 9:30 
., 
Kayaking NA Team B N/A Kayaking 10:20 Team B N/A I 
I O'Neill I McGlinn Keenan I Breen-Phillips I McCandless
I 
i 
' 
Volleyball Team A 8:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Volle)·ball Team A 7:45 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100
I Team B 7:45 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Team B 9:15 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100
Men's Basketball Team A 9:00 Men's Broomball 12:00 
Men's Basketball Team A 8:00 Men's Broomball 8:30 
Team B 9:40 Women's Broomball 8:30 
Team 8 N/A Women's Broomball 8:30
Women's Basketball Team A 8:00 Kickball Team A 10:00 
Women's Basketball Team A 8:00 Kickball Team A 9:110 
Team B NA Team B 12:00 

Team B NA Team B 111:40
Nerf Football Team A 10:00 Wiffieball TeamA 11:00 
Nerf Football Team A 8:40 Wiffieball Team A 7:20
Team B 2:20 Team B 9:40 
Team B 7:40 Team B N/A
Target Golf Team A 8:30 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 
Target Golf Team A 8:30 Monster llodgeball 12:00
Team B 9:15 Men's Soccer TeamA ll:OO 
Team B NA Men's Soccer Team A 8:00
Women's Soccer Team A 11:00 Team 8 11:30 
Women's Soccer Team A NA Team B 7:30
Team B 8:00 Innertube Water Polo TeamA 9:30 
Team B NA Innertube Water Polo TeamA NA
Kayaking 9:00 Team 8 N/A 
Kayaking 10:40 Team 8 N/A 
-
Friday, January 23, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• TRACK AND fiElD 


Tracksters head to Michigan 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field teams hit full stride tomor­row at the Red Simmons Invitational in Ann Arbor, Mich., against a higher level of compe­tition than in their first meet. 
"After last week, we have a baseline of where people are at," said sprints and hurdles coach John Millar. "We'll see how people respond to more intense, better competition." 
Notre Dame will send over 60 athletes to the meet. The other teams competing will be Western Michigan, Central Michigan, Eastern Michigan, Michigan State, Toledo, and the host school, Michigan. Michigan is generally strong. as its men's cross country team was fourth in the nation last season, and Eastern and Western Miehigan also usually have very competi­tive athletes. The meet, like most othrrs, will not be scored on the team level so the compe­tition will focus mostly on indi­vidual performances. 
"For most of the kids that I coach, this will be their first rare, so we'II be real curious to see how they do," said distanc~ coach Tim Connelly. 
"We're still trying to get a feel for where we're at. From the runners who competed last week, we'll hopefully see some improvement, now that they've gotten their feet wet. We've got to try to improve as the level of competition improves." 
This will be the first competi­tion of the season for many dis­tance runners, including sopho­more cross country all­American JoAnna Deeter in the 3000-meter run, and 5enior captain Janel Kiley and sopho­more Patti Rice in the mile. Connelly said that these will be key events since although he knows they arc fit, he is not sure of their preparation for racing. 
"We'll use this meet to see how athletes respond when they run a number of races and find the events we'II need to put peo­ple in to maximize their perfor­mance," said Millar. 
"In the men's hurdles, I'd like to see how Errol Williams comes back this week, if he improves, and how he performs. Danny Payton and Terry Wray, we'll be using in the 600-meter run to see how they adapt to that race. The women will be running similar events to last week, but we'll be trying to see how they adjust to the tougher com petition." 
Williams, a captain who met provisional qualifications in the 55-meter hurdles last week at Purdue for the NCAA champi­onships, is looking forward to the tougher competition. 
"The competition wasn't as fierce last week as it will be this week," said Williams. "It will be fast, so the times will take care of themselves. We don't talk about times that much, but in the end, they've got to fall." 
Chris Cochran, last week's champion in the 55-meter dash and 200-meter dash, said, ''I'd like to improve on last week, refine some of the mistakes I feel I had in mv running, and run against the. good competi­tion that's usually at this meet. It'll definitely be a lot tougher, but that's what you need. That's what's fun about it." 
Nadia Schmiedt, who was within .3 seconds of the school record in winning the 600­meter run last week, hopes to better her time in that event and the 55-meter hurdles, as well as get a good mark in her first-ever long jump. She is preparing to compete in the pentathlon later this season in hopes of scoring points at the Big East meet. The pentathlon includes the 55-meter hurdles, the 800-meter run, the shot put, long jump, and high jump. 
"The goal is to bring your time down every week until the big meet," said Schmiedt. 
Pole vaulter Mike Brown, high jumpers Jenny Engelhardt and Kelle Saxen, sprinter Carri Lenz, and shot putter Matt Thompson will also be expected to do well for the Irish after strong starts at the Purdue Open last weekend. 
Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diamond Authority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

By SHANNON RYAN SportsWriter 
Although Danny Rothschild played hero last weekend at Minnesota. he's hoping a super man won't be needed Saturday against underdogs Miami and DePaul. 
"We're all itching to play," Rothschild said. ..Maybe someone else will be hero-this time. I think everyone's ready to step up to play ... 
The 1·0 Irish will have dou~ ble the chance to prove them­selves victors as they face Miami at 9 a.m. and DePaul at 4 p.m. at the Eck Pavillion, 
Although the No. 23 Irish should serve both unranked Miami and DePaul a loss. they're not taking either team for granted. · · "It's a big match for them:' Rothschild· said. "We can't take them lightly." 
However. with the home court advantage and a three.,­hour break.while DePaul and Miami battle it out, the Irish have a Cl~a~ 'edge. Player depth is the area where this edge Will be cutmost severe· ly. 
"Our lower guys are mor~ testedfth4n otu'·opponents'll' head coach Bob Bayliss saJfl.,, "That's\wnereit's going,to 
count~· · · The injuries, although slight on the Irish side, have been adding up. The Irish line~up will only be as flexible as the players' jqints~ 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Men's tennis ready to serve up wins 
"With Ryan's {Sachire) 
shoulder, Jakub's 
(Pietrowski) elbow and 
Danny's ankle. it's subject to 
change," Bayliss said. "Matt 
Horsley is making progress 
but still won't be ready for 
Saturday." ­
However, Matt Daly, who 
has reportedly played excel­
lent in practice, is capable of 
stepping into the role of min* 
uteman. 

Practices for the Irish have 
been light this week, lasting 
about an hour and a half. 
"We're having two prac* 
tices where they're getting 
individual attention," Bayliss 
said. "They'll have fresh legs 
this weekend." 
The Irish will have to he up 
and running against Miami's 
Champi Halim. who beat 
Pietrowski lastseason. Dave 
Ableson of Canada will also 
have a close eye watching 
him because he defeated the 
Irish two seasons ago. 
DePaul's Greg Tranquada 
and Lucas Horacek are all­
court players who pose 
threats at the No. 1 and 2 
positions. Dan Aujer's serve 
and volley pl(t.y will also be a . 
key aspect theJrish will need 
to stifle .. 

Although t~e matches.·will most likely be strolls in the ·park. the Irish are not count· 
ing out a·possiblestumble. 
"They'll play tough." 
Rothschild said. j'Either team 
can beat us ifwe don't show 
t.JP to.. win~:~:·)·:·:?~:=····.. .. 
--" 

DIGGER PHELPS 
BASKETBALL FOR DUMMIES 
Published by !DC Books 

SUNDAY • .JANUARY 25 • 2:30 P.M. 
Meet Richard "Digger "Phelps ,retired basketball coach 
from theUniversity ofNotreDame, and ESPN commen~ tator for College Basketball hereat Borders this afternoon. NO baskctball tickets and mini basketballs & hoops will he given away. Basketball for Dummies~ the fun and easy way to explore basketball~~-from High School and College Hoops to theNBA. This is amust bookfor all basketball 
coaches and fans.  
MISHAWAKA  INDIANA  •4230 GRAPE  ROAD  •  AT  THE  
CORNER  OF  GRAPE  8c  DAY  RD.  
(219)  271-9930  

TITANIC (PG-13)DIGITAL 
12:00 4:00 8:15 SPICE WORLD 12:15 2:00 5:00 7:30 9:45 HARD RAIN (R) 
12:30 2:45 5:15 7:40 9:50 GOOD WILL HUNTING (R) 1:30 4:30 7:15 10:00 FALLEN (R) DIGITAL 
1:15 4:15 7:00 9:40 MOUSEHUNT (PG) 11 :45 2:15 4:45 5:50 TOMMORROW NEVER DIES 9:30 
SaUSun Mat. in (brackets] AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) 
.,

[1 :00) 4:00 7:00 9:50 MR. MAGOO (PG) 
[2:45) 5:00 7:30 9:30 FULL MONTY (R) 2:00 
....--------~· -~-­

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 23, 1998 
• JOCK STRIP 



Garrity's performance attracts recruits for Irish 
As the Notre Dame men's basketball team returns to its glory days and its name becomes synonymous with the 
N C A A------­
to urn a-GENE BRTALIK 
m e n t . Spor[S Wri[er t h e r e will be one date inscribed in the memory of ND basketball fans-Nov. 12, 1993. On this date coach John MacLeod received a letter of commit­ment from the 125th prospect in the country, a young, wiry player from Monument, Colo., by the name of Patrick Garrity. 

For three years we were able to see what Garrity could do on the court, leading the team in scoring all three years and capturing the Big East player of the year award last season. We also learned of Garrity's excellence in the classroom, being a dean's list student as a pre-professional major in science. This year Garrity showed us another part of his all-around ability: the ability to recruit. For the first time in a decade. Notre Dame has landed three top 100 basketball prospects ­Harold Swanagan. David 

I! Graves, and Troy Murphy. Harold Swanagan is a 6-foot­8, 230 lb. power forward from Hopkinsville, Ky. Rated among the top 100 prospects. on most lists, he brings his athletic and physi­cal strength to the Big East to take on the physical competi­tion that accompanies play in the conference. Be is current­ly averaging 19.8 points on 70 percent shooting and 10.1 
.. 
t. rebounds. Opposing coaches have raved about this recruit. "Swanagan is tough to defend because he can score in the paint and also has the 
,: . 
ability to find the open man on 
1", ·, 
the perimeter," stated one 
~)l\
I :. coach. 
1: '· fo'< 
! ( Swanagan has helped lead his team to a 15-2 record with
:i r
::! the two losses coming against
ll i 
top 25 teams in the country. David Graves is a 6-foot-6 small forward/big guard from 

I ~ 

~­
I. 
t !: 
j \" 
' 
' 
,i ;, 
II~) 
r1f r[
,, ). ;; f,, \ ~ 
...........................-..-·-·==== 

ALASKA 


In conjunction with the University Club of Notre Dame, sail Celebrity's new magnificient, "Mercury", for her inaugural Alaskan cruise. 
June 12, 1998 7 NIGHT NORTHBOUND GLACIER Mercury joins Celebrity's Five-Star Fleet with award winning cuisine created by Master Chef Michel Raux. Discover stylish staterooms,. 
five-star service, gala stage productions and world class recreational amenities. It's all part of your Celebrity experience. Call~ for this special group pricing, cabin categories and brochure. 
~fjiijiiFJ:ijijijiiiii] 1518 Miami Street 234-6636 1-800-472-6714 


;} 
i i I f I I 
i 
' I 
I 
: 
c 
.. 
Lexington, Ky. 
Graves is among the top 60 recruits in the country and currently plays for a top-25 high school team. Last year he averaged 17.5 points per game to go along with his eight boards per game. Graves is considered to be one of the best high school 3-point shooters in the country and also likes to post up his oppo­nent or take him to the basket. 
"David scores well from both the post and the perimeter. Plus, he is a great rebounder and passer," com men ted MacLeod. 
Currently, Graves is shooting 65 percent from the field and 48 percent from behind the arc. He is also averaging close to 20 points per game. Last weekend in a tournament dubbed Hoops in the Loops, Graves put in 28 points, including a shot made at the buzzer to beat the No. 2 team in the country. What made his scoring even more special was that he did it with one of the top players in the country guarding him. 
Troy Murphy is a 6-foot-1 0, forward/center from Sparta, N.J. 
Don't be surprised if Murphy is wearing a familiar number next year when he steps onto the court. As recruiters have explained, "He's a bigger ver­sion of Pat Garrity and he can have that kind of impact, or even more." 
Murphy is currently ranked among the top 30 prospects in the country. He averaged 24 points, 11 boards, and four blocks last year as a member of the Delbarton high school team that had a 24-2 record. 
This year nothing has been different for the New Jersey native. In the past two weeks he has scored 42 and 48 points in games. 
"He has the ability to score in and out. He also is a great passer and rebounder," said MacLeod. 
Murphy completes his game with his free throw shooting. 
.j '<
[t: '& Men's Tennis 
:,r 
I~ 
Basketball
I 
Saturday Jan. ~4tL 

~••· 111•· ~ovc.•:rs~!! 
I 

Saturday
! 9:00a.n -..s. DePaul 
( I 
t 4:0op... -..s. Mia.ni (00) 
Jan. 24th 2:00pm 
rr 
,• 
\,, 
~ ', 
Ec• Tennis Center 
vs. Providence ' Free admission 
to all students!! 
During a game this year, he made all 22 of his free throw attempts. 
As for junior year prospects, Notre Dame has already received a commitment from Mike Monserez, a 6-foot-5 guard from Cincinnati. Monserez is viewed as a great leader. Also on the horizon are juniors Matt Carroll, a 6­foot-5 guard from Philadelphia, Matt Bonner, a 6-foot-9 forward from Concord, N.H., and Nathan Popp, a 7-foot-1 center from Lexington. 
Big things will be expected from the class of 2002 when they step onto the court of one of the most feared arenas in college basketball -the Joyce Center. 
"They will all be given their shot like Martin llngelsby]. and they will definitely all get playing time," said MacLeod. 
Ten years from now, when Notre Dame is considered one of the top teams annually, there will be another date 

etched into our memories -Courtesy of Kentucky Connect.com Nov. 12, 1997. Harold Swanagan is rated among the top 100 recruits in the country. 

12, Pizza with any toppings for $7 .00 20" Cheese p~~za for 
Any additiOnal toppings for
$12 00

• $1.00 




Women's 
' ~~ 
-

Friday, January 23, 1998 page 23
The Observer • TODAY 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
-


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
::;; 
0

DON'T WORRY AC>OUT 
u 
-' 
0

MY FLU I ALICE. 
<( 
... 
Ill :IE 

GERMS DON'T FLY 
<( 
0

"THROUGH THE AIR. 
<(
...
... 
0 
,(.) E'" 
UJ 
"' 
lr) 


~--~~----------------_J 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 lnnsbruck rs rts 57 Suffrx wrth flex caprtal
1 Farmers freld 58 It went down 27 Pt1oto when the 
Abbr 30 Winter holrday Valdez crashed
4 go·s srnger Mary 31 Srte of a 1967 60 Grant basrs Carpenter crvrl war 61 Mrss the 1oCaesar and 34 Boy lead-rn deadline others 35 Short-lrved 62 Word teachers 14 Actress Joanne 1986 TV sitcom lrke to hear 
1 5 Conference 40 Common 63 H.S. dropouts· USA theater name redemptrons powerhouse 
41 Art songs 64 Worth a look 16 Turn profrt 42 Penny. 65 Ocean 17 Best sellrng sometrmes author of 1978 43 Ouretus DOWN
19 Explorer 44 TV cartoon dog Cabeza de 49 Top dogs 1 Frddle wrth 20 --reflectron 
50 Cuts. in a way 2 Suffix in many 21 One for the class names
52 Maclachlan of hrstory books ··rwrn Peaks·· 3 London Sun 22 Rather trdblt
53 Author Zora 23 Sleep Hurston 4 Price abbr" 25 Focal pornt 56 Scope 5 Offended 6 1966 Michael Caine film ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7Au-­
a ··surcrde Blonde" rock group 
9 Following 10 Much of Cuba 11 Not at the 
counter 12 Say one wrll 
wear seat belts. e"g. 18 Not exo­
to? 


The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
but maybe you're taking too

MIKE PETERS 
long to say something. There is no need to convince someone who already agrees with you. Stop postponing the inevitable. 
Cancer: You surprise other people by losing patience with them. With so much already on your mind, there doesn't seem to be room for anything else. Find a safe, healthy way to dis­charge some of that stress. 
Leo: The Sagittarius Moon makes Leo the king or queen of the jungle for the next few days. Your predatory skills are in top form as you seek to satis­fy your appetites. Having fun can be a learning experience. 
Virgo: Dare yourself to be

SCOTT ADAMS 
responsible today. What you have to do and what you want to do are two entirely different things. Imagining the reward you will earn for all this is your carrot on the stick. 
Libra: This is a day of process and forward motion. 





The Observer: 
Puzzle by Matt Gaffney 
29 Old duchy rn 46 Frog's place 51 Metrrc royal famrly prefrx
47 Deep canyon 

names 
So much fun it~ll take
feature 

53 Bills 32 Not gorng 
48 Certain 54 Companyanywhere Japanese hotshot33 It"s not the 50 New York's 

plastic surgery to
breakrng porn! 55 Car bar
----Kettering35 Spy satellrte hospital 59 Instant activrty 
36 One wrth a comb-------------­

remove the smiles from 
37 Glorrfied 38 Some crop starts 39 Inside look 45 Piece of rnfo 
Answers to any three clues in th1s puzzle are available by touch-tone phone 1·900-420-5656 (75~ per mrnute) 
Annual subscrrptrons are available for the 

yourface. best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ______________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City --------------State ______ Zip___________ 
You pass the halfway point on a major project, and it all appears to be downhill from here. Allow yourself a few thoughts about what you will do next. 
Scorpio: The world is going crazy around you, and against all reason, you might be drawn into it. Impulse is a two-edged sword over which you have no controL ThB simple act of get· ting involved may carry a heavy price. 
Sagittarius: You manage to be in a few places at the same time today. Touching people, animals, and things becomes a vital and necessary sensory experience. Others remark on how much you are laughing. 
Capricorn: Jupiter and Saturn move through your day in a slow, stately dance. Artists and engineers appreciate grad­ual progress, but clock-watch­ers will be driven crazy. Great possibilities become obvious by evening. 
Aquarius: You move quickly today, your focus sharp, your purpose firmly in place. Conversation is intoxicating, especially when you mix it in with the task at hand. Your senses are alive. You are ready for an experience. 
Pisces: The heavy hand of authority shakes you out of your daydream. This is a day for participating rather than escaping. You are lucky to be let off with a warning, but next time might be different. 
-~­
"' 


~.~--.~~··-__.. __---~~~ ~-----~----------------------------------------------------------, 






SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, January 23, 1998 

• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
~~li€31'~ ~tt blt!J (31~fl@ 
Irish hope to continue home dominance 
The Observer/John Da11y 

Kelly Siemon and the Notre Dame women's basketball team face Providence tomorrow. 
By BILL HART Sports Writer 

After a week-long conference road­
' 
trip, the Notre Dame women's basket­

l . 
ball team will return to the friendly confines of the Joyce Center this week­
\t ' . end to face off against another confer­ence foe. In the wake of their last game at the Joyce Center, the Irish will have a tough act to follow. 
This week, Providence played in only one contest -a 103-92 loss to West Virginia on Wednesday. The Friars trailed 51-50 at halftime, and an offen-· sive barrage by the Mountaineers in the second half proved too much to handle.
,\, The Friars are led by J en Gombotz, who tallied a game-high 25 points against WVU to lead four players in
tl double figures. Gombotz also leads the 
.· 
team in steals. averaging 5.2 per game.
' 
i: She is supported by sophomore guards Me ghan Hinds and Julie Wheeler. Hinds, who scored 24 points in the shootout against the Mountaineers, averages 12.4 points and 3.0 rebounds per game. while Wheeler leads the team in assists with 4.1 per contest. 
The Friars' leading rebounder. Kerri Chatten, has been out of action for the past five games due to an ankle injury, and is not expected to return to the court in time for tomorrow's contest. 
Already. Providence women's basket­ball has become a hot commodity in the New England area. The Friars' contest with Connecticut on Feb. 7 is already sold out. The game will be the largest ever women's athletic event in Rhode Island. 
The Irish were able to rebound from a loss against Boston College Saturday by posting an 87-69 victory against Syracuse on Wednesday night. After a close first half, the Irish used a 19-12 spurt in the first 10 minutes to break open a lead. then closed the game out with a 17-3 run. While Notre Dame's defense held the Orangewomen to under 35 percent from the field, the Irish offense was able to take advan­tage of the home team's weakness in the paint. Notre Dame forced turnovers and out-rebounded Syracuse 45-39. The win also moved the Irish into sole possession of third place in the Big East Seven. 
"I thought it was a great win coming off the loss to Boston College," fresh­man Kelley Siemon said. "Everyone scored, and we were all able to work together as a team." 
Freshman phenom Ruth Riley once again led the Irish offense, recording her fifth consecutive double-double with 29 points and 13 rebounds. Both stats were career highs for the 6-foot-5 
see W. B-BALL I page 19 

I' I I 

II

• HOCKEY h 
II I 
I 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
Sophomore right wing Joe Dusbabek played in the hockey World Junior Championships over break. 
Irish send two to world tournament in Finland 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 

Joe Dusbabek and Ben Simon of the Notre Dame hockey team have a lot in common. 
They're both sophomores, they're both exceedingly tal­ented forwards, and they were both selected in the NHL draft this past summer. But most importantly. they both played on the U.S. junior national team that 
placed fifth at the World Junior Championship in Helsinki, Finland, over Christmas Break. For three weeks, while most Notre Dame students were opening presents or sleeping in, the dynamic duo was competing against the world's best hockey players. 
"We were playing against the top 19-year-olds in the world," explained Dusbabek. "You just can't beat that for experience." 
Making this elite team is an outstanding accomplishment. Only 22 players from across the c.ountry and only 10 col­lege players were selected to play for the U.S. team. 
Tryouts for the team were held this summer in Lake Placid, N.Y., and 23 players were chosen to participate in a summer world tournament in Tampara, Finland. These 23 and other players who stood out during the first half of the hockey season received invitations to the tryouts held in New Jersey Dec. 13-18. During camp, the roster was cut from 30 to 22, and both Dusbabek and Simon made the cut. 
The pair, who are also roommates, were flXcited to be on the squad. 
"It was an honor to be named to the team," said Simon, who also made the same team as a freshman. "The whole tournament was a lot of fun, but it also was an excellent opportunity to develop as a player." 
The tournament began on a bad note for the U.S. squad, as it dropped its first game to the Czech Republic, 4-1. This loss sent the team to the consolation bracket, and it was immediately put out of contention for the first four spots. But the team made the best of a bad situa­tion and stormed through the consolation bracket, trounc-J 
see HOCKEY I page 18 


Men's Basketball, 


Hockey, 

• Men's tennis preview 
vs. Villanova, 

at Bowling Green, 
Jan. 28, 7:30p.m. 

Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
see page 21 

• Garrity's recruiting impact 
Women's Basketball, 
Swimming and Diving, 
vs. Providence, 

vs. DePauw, 
see page 22 
Tomorrow, 2 p.m. 

Jan. 30, 7:30 p.m. 
I i :'
.,, ;' 
,: ! . 
... ; 
It ,: , . 
I :I 





