..--------:---~------..~---...,.....-_,_,---:----.· ~------~--~..~----,---' I 

• Scene prints maps and instructions to help guide Irish fans to East Lansing for Saturday's 7 p.m. football game. 
Scene • 12-13 

THE 
• Political scientist Harvey Mansfield delivered a lecture last night, "The Responsible Man," that explored the stereotypes of manliness. 
News·7 

Friday 
SEPTEMBER 11, 1998 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 13 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
• STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Meeting reviews strategies to pay off $38,000 debt 
SUB 97-98 Deficit Payback Proposals  
19,229$20,000 19,229 II 2 yr 50-50 plan . • 3 yr 40~30-30 plan$15,000 11,357 .$10,000 If#~ Total SUB Debt: $38,458$5,000 98-99 99-00 00-01 The Observer/Joe Mueller  

Pope's words offer to guide universities 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Nt·wsWritcr 
This summer Popn John Paul II issued two papal statom(mts that challenged Catholic universities across the world to qunstion thPir identities and values. 
Through an ad !imina speech directed towards bishops in Indiana, Wisconsin, and Illinois, the Pope stated that Catholic universities "must first have a strong S(~nse of their own Catholic iden­titins." lin encouraged Catholic learning institutions to lind this religious identity "from its living within the Church today and always, spnaking from the heart of the Church to the contemporary world." 
Notn~ Damn president Father Edward Malloy said lw belinvns Notre Dame is a line nxampln of tlw Pope's word, eiting the University's faculty, school activi­tins, community living, and curriculum. 
"Tiw !wavy rnsidential tradition here is orw of Notre Dame's greatest assets," Malloy said. "Most of the Catholic uni­vnrsitins in the world have no residen­tial facilities. Additionally, our core cur­riculum. with rnquirernents in subjects sueh as philosophy and theology, is also an important part of a Catholic universi­ty." 
Tlw Pope also declared a dp,finite change in the code of canon law, titled Ad Tuendum Fidem. The controversial document requires an oath of fidelity for thosn who teach in the name of Catholicism. 
Tlu~ology prol'essor Father Richard McBrien said the mandate restricts the creativity with which theologians can 
see POPE I page 6 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Assistant News Editor By TIM LOGAN Assistant News Editor 

The Financial Management Board voted 5-3 yesterday to make the Student Union Board retire its $38,458 deficit over two years, instead of the three year plan which had been con­sidered at a meeting on Monday night. 
The two year plan requires that SUB pay back 50 percent of its debt -$19,229 -each year. It is identical to the pay back plan for the many other student organizations that ran a deficit in 1997-98. 
The student union overspent a total of $66,000 in the 1997­98 academic year. 
Because of the size of SUB's individual share of the debt, by far the largest of any student group, some members of the FMB had considered giving them three years to pay it back. 
"I have a strong opposition to anything other than 50-50," 
FRIDAY FEATURE 

Thanks to the efforts ofthree ND/SMC students, death row inmate Paul Scott is 

Condemned, but not forgotten 
Paul Scott sits in a bleak cell on death row in Florida, far away from the noisy football stadium at Notre Dame and the scenic, green campus of Saint Mary's College. 
Yet Scott has strong connections on both eampuses. While sophomore Tim Noonan studied the case's legal aspects -the details, the appeals, the 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
"It's just one ofthose cases that strikes you and motivates you to do something about it." 
TiM NOONAN 
said club coordinator Hyan Harding. "On a percentage basis, it's inherently unfair to everyone else." 
Under the program, the amount SUB would have to pay each of the next two years adds up to less than 11 percent of its allocated 1998-99 funds of $180,000, and is less than half of the funding increase SUB received this year. However, it did exceed its budget last year by more than $38,000, and some members of the Board voiced concern that SUB's abili­ty to do its job would be dimin­ished. 
"[This plan! will adversely ell'ect SUB programming," said off-campus co-president Bret Hendrickson. 
Ultimately, FMB members stressed the importance of retiring the debt as quickly as possible, and so supported the two year plan over the three 
see DEBT I page 6 

agony of waiting -Candice Janiczek and Greta Zandstra of Saint Mary's kept Scott connected to the outside world through frequent letters to the death row inmate. 
Though they each relate to Scott in their own way, the experience of writ­ing to a prisoner on death row helped each develop a unique relationship with the man. 
"IIe calls us his angels," Janiczek said. "[And] I'm somewhat in denial about the fact that he will be gone." 
Scott was convicted of first degree murder in 1979 and sentenced to death. According to the case files, Scott and a friend went over to a man's house on the night of the alleged murder. When he man. a homosexual, began coming on to Scott's friend, the latter allegedly hit the man over the head with a cham­pagne bottle and left him lying on the ground, passed out. 
After Scott and his friend left, two other men supposedly attempted to rob the same person and those close to Scott's case believe the robbers killed the man that Scott and his friend left unconscious. 
The case drew the attention of Sister Helen Prejean, whose work to free death row inmates was documented in the movie "Dead Man Walking." 
Prejean wrote a letter in June expressing her belief in Scott's inno­cence. 
"I believe he is innocent and will be executed by the state of Florida unless 
~ ;I lot ofthese 
..1'1. inmates just want some­one to talk to because they don't see their families or have been abandoned by them.' 

G1/liTA ZANDSTRA 


~ Jl is just 
.1.. heartbreak­ing ... I've gotten to know {Paull as a human beiny and as an indi­vidual. I'm now able to look past what he's done.' 
CANlJICE JANICZEK 

there is such a public outcry on his behalf that state officials will have to halt the execution and grant him jus­tice," Prejean wrote. 
Noonan became interested in Scott's case after he received an e-mail mes­sage in the spring about the ease from Saint Mary's professor Joe lncandela, who asked for people to help with the case in any way possible. 
see INMATE I page 4 

,-----,-c­
~­

'I 
page 2 
• INSI!JE COLUMN 
Minor Offenses 
They called him Minor, Henderson Minor. 
A 66-year-old formerly convicted of mur­der. Minor had served 41 years in the New Mexico state penitentiary. Homeless with a stab wound in his leg, Tom Enright Minor was not the pic-News Writer ture of an ideal citizen when I met him in an Albuquerque, NM, shelter. The only excep­tional thing about him was his story. 
At the age of 23, Minor, then a young black man, was dating a young white woman at a time "when blacks just didn't do that kind of thing too much." One evening as he and his lady friend went walking, an undercover police officer began harassing them and started a fight. Minor hit back -and killed the man. 
Sentenced for life in prison, Minor's routine rarely changed over the next 43 years. He saw rapes, prison riots, and deaths. As if taken out of the popular movie the "Shawshank Redemption," Minor's life changed forever. 
When he left the penitentiary in 1996, he faced a world with' little regret for what he had done. Although released early, Minor faced the world imprisoned in his own igno­rance and poverty. Indeed, he would casually tell me often disturbing stories about his experiences with prostitutes and bar fights since his prison release. 
My time this summer as a Summer Service Project participant has left me with several new realizations about this world. Yet, Mr. Minor's story seems among the most relevant here to me at Notre Dame. 
A poor, unsympathetic man, Minor seemed numb to both his crime and his actions since leaving prison. He needed a second chance to redefine what was left of his life, but didn't seem to know how . When my own pangs of sympathy and amazement at his life faded as I got to know him, I found myself condemning his careless, unregretfullifestyle. I've learned, albeit slowly, that even the "unre­pentant" like Mr. Minpr deserve second and third chances. 
Perhaps that is an idea that many students and faculty at Notre Dame could learn. 
As we have read over the last few weeks about the Sen. Bradley abortion issue and have heard often righteous statements from students and instructors alike denouncing his position with the faculty, perhaps we should step back before condemning. How many of us in the past or presently hold views con­trary to Catholic teachings? According to Pope John Paulll, if you support birth con­trol, the death penalty, or assisted suicide, you're in grave opposition to the Church as well. Where are the protests denouncing peo­ple with such anti-Catholic views? 
Sen. Bradley, like Henderson Minor, may not have "regret" for his political views. But as a Catholic university we have a responsi­bility to give him, like all humans, limitless chances to understand our views. Anyone that has gone to confession more than once surely has an idea of what this means. I applaud President Malloy's support of Bradley, and although myself a pro-lifer, wel­come his insight into American politics and government. 
True Christian living is not found in public denouncing or condemning, but in under­standing, patience, and forgiving-even when the recipient doesn't "need" or want it. Thank you Henderson Minor. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tootw's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Derek Betcher  Kristi Klitsch  
Erica Thesing  Graphics  
Brad Untiedt  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Colleen McCarthy  
Mike Connolly  Shannon Ryan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Spencer Stefko  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-,---­

Friday, September 11, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

New scanner combines X-rays to detect cancer 
PITTSBURGH 
The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center is using a first-of-its-kind scan­ner researchers say may revolutionize X-ray imaging to evaluate patients with known cancer masses. 
The scanner combines two types of X-rays in one picture. In the past the X-rays had to be scanned separately and then superimposed together. 
Pitt researchers say the new scan­ner will greatly increase the likelihood of discovering diseases by integrating the two processes to show the pres­ence of illness. 
Until now, using X-rays to show exactly where diseases exist was diffi­cult because of the problem of super­imposing the separate Computer­assisted X-ray Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) images. 
CT is a system of multiple X-ray data assembled by a computer. It pro­


In the past, superimposing the two images proved difficult. Because organs could have shifted during the time between the two scans, the images were sometimes incompatible. 
Several patients with pancreatic caucers are taking part in the pilot study designed to determine the effec­tiveness of the new scanner, according to Adam Slivka, M.D., Ph.D., of the Pitt Cancer Institute and co-director of UPMC's Center for Pancreatic Diseases. 
"One of the major difficulties in helping patients with pancreatic can­cers is that by the time they [show] symptoms of the disease, it has already progressed to the point where it is very difficult to treat and cure," Slivka said. 
David W. Townsend, Ph.D., a senior PET physicist and associate professor in UPMC's radiology department, said, "The trial of the first PET/CT scanner at UPMC is designed to validate this new technique through engineering, scientific and software refinements." Slivka said that although studies remain to be done to determine the diagnostic accuracy of the new scan­ner, early experience with suggests it will assist in diagnosing and staging pancreatic cancer and may become a valuable screening tool. 
• UNIVERSITY Of TEXAS 
New laser may reduce Internet costs 
AUSTIN, Texas 
UT engineers have developed a new semiconductor laser technology known as "quantum dots" that can signif­icantly reduce operating costs for the telecommunications industry. Dennis Deppe, associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and his research team of Diana Huffaker, a research associate at the University, and three graduate students, announced the breakthrough Thursday at a technology conference in La Jolla, Calif. The research addresses an "exploding need for information capacity," Deppe said, adding that with quantum dot technology, interconnecting businesses and computers at high speeds will be possible without the use of wires. "The biggest impact will fall in the telecommuni­cations area, particularly with Internet applications," said Ben Streetman, dean of the College of Engineering. 
• DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Homemade bombs explode in dorm 
DURHAM, N.C. 
A female resident was taken to the Emergency Department early yesterday morning after reportedly being injured in a blast from an explosive device placed near her dormitory room, said Maj. Robert Dean of the Duke University Police Department. Dean described the incident as follows: The student was returning to her room between 1 a.m. and 2:23 a.m. when the device­described by police as a 32-ounce plastic Gatorade bottle containing aluminum and some liquid substance-exploded in the hallway outside her room, injuring her left leg and knee. The victim, who lives in a first-floor triple, said there were two blasts on her floor. In an interview Tuesday afternoon, Dean said there was only one device on the first floor and another on the second floor that exploded slightly earlier. At an emergency room meeting late Tuesday night, however, Det. Thessie Mitchell of Campus Police confirmed that there were two explosions on the first floor and that there might have been a third elsewhere in the dorm. 

• BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
Future teachers fail examinations 
BOSTON, Mass. 

Education majors throughout Massachusetts learned an important lesson when 60 percent of students who took a teacher-certification exam in April failed. When a second exam was administered in July, the results were not much better: Roughly half of all test takers passed. Many of the state's top education schools received dismal results, with some reporting failure rates as high as 75 percent. At Boston University, nearly 34 percent of students who took the April exam failed. While advocates concede the exams -which tests students in reading, writing and the sub­jects they plan to teach -cannot assess a teacher's per­formance in the classroom, they maintain they are neces­sary to weed out those who should never even make it to the classroom. About 79 percent of the 110 Boston College students who took the April test passed. 
• OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Student wins Hispanic leader award 
STILLWATER, Okla. 

Paul De La Cerda has made some tough choices in his college career. The civil engineering senior and ~atio?al Hispanic Student Leader of the Year gave up a lull-nde scholarship on Oklahoma State University's cross country team two years ago to pursue his academic interests. De La Cerda, a cross-country All-American and former NCAA champion, said the choice he made was the right one. "I was always thinking, what if I get hurt, what would I have to fall back on," he said. "That was education." He will receive his National Hispanic Student Leader of the Year award at the Hispanic Engineer National Achievement Award Convention in Houston this October. Ray Mellado, HENAAC chairman, said it was De La Cerda's leadership skills that allowed him to be nominated and chosen for the HENAAC award. Mellado said the organization's mission is to inspire inner-city Hispanics to get involved in technol­ogy. "We spotlight graduates and undergraduates who have leadership qualities involved in technology," Mellado said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

t:·:·,·~-,,~. 
H 
Friday: 
i


Saturday :,~;;, 
Sunday ~,,,84'"' Monday 
4\;;;l'~~i,, Tuesday . rr;'t~, 18~ 
(f-/\\y-'"'..,..\../.......\ ..:..) ' ·:·: ·:·:j) 

Asheville 82 42 Fairbanks 55 37 New York 80 66 Boise 80 55 Houston 80 74 New Orleans 86 78
4,Q,~q~~ (f ~ u 

Boston 74 62 Las Vegas 92 72 Seattle 76 54 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Columbus 82 58 Lincoln 92 59 Tampa 88 68 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Des Moines 88 62 Miami 89 79 Topeka 90 58 



'' 
' 
Friday, September II, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• SECURITY BEAT MON., SEPT. 7 4:28 p.m. Security transported an off-campus TUES., SEPT. 8 dent In the D06 parking lot. There were no 9:25a.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the student to the University Health Center for treat­
1:20 a.m. Security cited a Knott Hall resident for injuries reported. 
theft of his bike from a bike rack at Loftus. His ment of a sports injury. 
driving with no headlights on Notre Dame Ave. 

bike was locked at the time of the theft. 11 :05 p.m. A South Bend resident was cited by 11:00 a.m. A Welsh Family Hall resident report· WED., SEPT. 9 10:39 a.m. A Breen Phillips resident reported Security on Douglas Road for driving with a sus­ed the theft of her bike from a bike rack at 10:38 p.m. A Breen Phillips resident reportedthe theft of her bike from a bike rack at the pended license and exceeding the posted speed Keough Hall. Her bike was not locked at the the theft of a pair of running pants from anlimit.
dorm. Her bike was locked at the time of the 
time of the theft. unlocked locker in the women's locker room at 
theft. 
7:46 p.m. Security responded to a two car acci-Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
We're Now In Your Northwest Corner 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION • 
(Across from Meijer) 

• No-Surcharge ATM 
U93

(even for non-members) 

Live_

• 
FREE Checking Broadcast!

• 
Drive up Service 


September 19 
• 
Safe Deposit Boxes 

• 
Special 1/4% Bonus on


• 
any new CD 
• Home Equity and Car Loans As Low As 7.99% APR* 
FREE  
Stop in and Apply for Membership at:  GIFTS FOR EVERY  
• •  3457 Portage Road (219) 277-8959  NEW ACCOUNT!  
.. .  
:~®fii!M..·  .<i' ':: ::: ': .. ::,: '"' i: i: ::.: ,, . :: :· .. , : .. ,: ...... : ...· ..  

Please fill out this form and drop it off at the Portage Road Office, to be eligible for the Treasure Chest prizes. Winners will be announced Saturday September 19th. You do not need to be in attendance to win. 
NaDle_________________________________________________________________________ Address:_____________________________________________________________________ 
Phone________________________________________________________________________ 
~-~I ~ *Excluding existing Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans. Independent of the University. 
i'i,;;'i 
• 
I' ' 

-------------------------~-------' 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 11, 1998 
Since she began corresponding Zandstra, a senior who also her brother, an indication of she received from Scott he with Scott in February -some­corresponds with Scott, said the closeness of their relation­seemed "very down and upset."


Inmate 
times writing and receiving let­they discuss the shared inter­ship. In May, Scott wrote Janiczek a continued from page 1 ters from him every week -ests they discovered, such as "He calls me his little girl and letter in which he suggested Janiczek estimates she has art and literature. They rarely his sister," Zandstra said. "I that he needed to "retreat" for 
Noonan began devoting time to the case at the end of the school year and continues to put in at least two hours per night. He also devoted his sum­mer to distributing information about Scott's case to the media. 
"It's just one of those cases that strikes you and motivates you to do something about it," Noonan said. 
Working from his home in Missouri during the summer, 
, Noonan communicated with Scott via letters and kept in close contact with others work­ing on Scott's case. Noonan mailed between 75 and 100 letters to television news magazines, print maga­zines and newspapers, includ­ing journalists and media orga­nizations in four or five differ­ent countries. "I'd get the reply that they agreed the case needed to be looked into, but many times they probably just put the letter in a !ile cabinet with everyone else's," Noonan said. He did get a reply from the Jim Lehrer News Hour, a news program on PBS, but in light of the presidential scandal, Noonan said, the producer responded they would not do a program on Scott's case at this point in time. However, a large television show in London is doing a show on the Scott ease this fall, Noonan said. Noonan admits that the end is near for Scott. In 15 years in Florida, no death row inmates have had their death warrants overturned by the governor. "Some say Paul could be exe­cuted as early as October or as late as January," Noonan said. "All the legal appeals have been exhausted." 
Last February, Zandstra and Janiczek knew Scott as nothing more than a death row inmate. 
Today, they consider him a good friend. 
Both women were students in lncandela's Catholic Social Thought class last spring. The class examined the death penalty -among other issues -and included a project with the option of writing to a death row inmate. 
"I didn't know that much about capital punishment so I thought it would b(~ interesting to do that project," said Janiczek, a junior. "I looked on the· internet and came across a Web site that featured a format similar to personal ads with names of death row inmates looking for pen pals. 
"I chose a name randomly. That's how it all started." 
Little did Janiczek know that what had begun as a project for a class would become a deeply emotional experience. 
me?" 
Janiczek decided to lay down some rules before the corre­spondence continued. 
"I told him that if he wanted to keep corresponding, he had to drop his stereotypes about me if he didn't want me to stereotype death row inmates," she said. 
In their letters, Scott's case is rarely mentioned. Janiczek said the letters focus on everyday things such as how her classes are going or events taking place in other aspects of her life. But even she remained skeptical of Scott's innocence -until she read the letter Prejean wrote. 
It won her over; Janiczek now believes Scott is not guilty. 
"I haven't written a lot con­cerning his innocence or the case," she said. "I try to write about everyday things to remind him of things in the out­side world." 
written him 25 to 30 letters. discuss his case. consider him to be a good a period of time. 
But their correspondence And like Janiczek, Zandstra friend. ~e's very protective of "He told me that I was too almost ended after day one, receives and writes letters to me, too. innocent to go through what when Janiczek received her Scott frequently. Zandstra said she has "defi­would lead up to the execution 
first letter from Scott. "A lot of these inmates just nitely become emotionally and the execution itself," she 
"The first letter I wrote him want someone to talk to involved with Scott. said. "I wrote Paul back and was just a generic letter, telling because they don't see their "It's very sad," Zandstra said. told him that he is my friend him more about myself, where I families or have been aban­"He wrote to me and said that if and I won't give up on him and was from, my interests and doned by them," Zandstra said. he dies, he wants me to call his he shouldn't give up on him­where I went to college," she Initially, Zandstra. was leery mother and tell her that he self." said. "When he wrote back, I about corresponding with a loved her." Working on the case has left was really offended. I took what death row inmate. Janiczek is experiencing the Noonan jaded. he had written as harsh and "I was nervous," Zandstra same feelings. "It has to make you cynical rude. He made assumptions said. "I only gave my first name "It is just heartbreaking," she about the whole legal process," about me because I was a stu­in the letter and I didn't give said. "I consider Paul a friend he said. "I knew it wouldn't be dent at a Catholic, private, all­him my own address. I had him and I'll be very sad when he a trip down a rose garden. But I women's college. He thought I send the letters to Professor goes. I've gotten to know him as knew all along that my goal was just 'daddy's little girl."' Jncandela." a human being and as an indi­was if he was executed that 
In that letter, Scott wrote to But now, both women have a vidual. I'm now able to look when he was strapped down for Janiczek and ended the letter close relationship with Scott. past what he's done." his execution that he would writing, "How come I always Zandstra said that in her let­••• know people had tried to save get the good girls writing to ters, she refers to Scott often as Janiczek said in the last letter his life." 

John M~ Marshall's, Inc~ 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum~ 
...... 

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m.. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

Introducing ... 


"CASTLE POINT SELECT" 
Designed for the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate--just Compare! 
* UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
• 
27" Stereo Television 

• 
Cherry Finished Furnishings 

• 
Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker 

• 
All Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding 


• Plus Much More! 


MILLION DOLLAR RENOVA11UN 
* 
LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft) Starting at $494.00 

* 
LARGE Two Bedrooms (1,025 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 OR $149.00 per Person with Four Occupants 


• Included with rentals for a LIMITED time --FREE full privilege • membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including: 
* 
New Fitness Cemer * Outdoor Pool * Beach Volleyball 

* 
Sauna & Whirlpool * 3 Racquetball Couns * Indoor/Outdoor 

* 
Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts Basketball 


Hurry in for a Tour of the Mo5t Porular Apartments While They La5t. 
Castfe:PotntApartments CC"dcma @ 1ronwooo:Roaas 
272~8tt0 

www.castCe-:Jlolnt.com ~b119-Slltnrb1198 am -6pm Sun~11pm-5pn ­

"Wflere Ro~ctf!.ivtng is Rectsonct6(e" 


L-----------------------------------------------------------------------~----~~--~--~---------­

Friday, September 11, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Court reduces cult-related prison sentence 
TOKYO 
A Tokyo court on Thursday shaved six months ofT a seven-year jail term for a doomsday cult nwmbm· convicted of helping abduct a man who later died, according to nnws n~ports. Tlw Tokyo lligh Court lowered llw snntnnce af'tPr tho dnfendant, Eriko lida, :~7, agrnnd to makn ~~ompnnsation paymnnts to anothnr kidnapping victim of the Aum Shinri Kyo cull, tlw reports said. The cult's guru and otlwr lnadnrs have been charged with murdPr in thn March I 995 gas attack on Tokyo subways that killnd 12 people and sicknrwd thousands. !ida was sentenced two y1~ars ago in two kidnappings -onn in 1994 and anolhnr in I 995 of a man who had bflcn trying to lwlp his sister leave the cult. ProsPculors say that man dind after being !wavily druggPd by othnr cult mnmbers. 
MIS agent fights extradition 
LONDON 
A judgn gavn a form1~r British intelligence agnnt pnrmission Thursday to try to get the govPrnnwnt to pay for his logal fight against nxtradition to Britain. David Shayler, 32, who worknd for Britain's internal MIS inlnlli­gnncn agpncy from 1994 to 1997, rind to l'rancn last yPar aftnr sPlling stories about tlw agPncy's oJwrations to a British ncwspa­ppr·. Thn Mail, on Sunday. lie maintains, among otlwr things, that Britain plottod the assassination of Libyan loader Moammar (;adhaf'i. an allegation the government dPnins. On Thursday, .Judge Stflphen Hichards ov1~rturned a prnvious ruling that Shaylnr was not eligible for legal aid from the statn bm~ause he has not been charged with an ofTonsn in England. 
Polish women protest Viagra 
WAHSAW, Poland 
A govornnwnt minister's proposal to sub­sidizo Viagra prescriptions to boost Poland's fnrti lily rate drew protests Thursday from feminists, who accused the govnrnnwnt of caring more about men's piPasurn than women's health. The Fmlnration for Women and Family Planning said the proposal was ospecially outra­goous bocause the Solidarity-led govern­ment cut subsidins for contraception earlier this year in its effort to reverse a decline in Polish births. "Access to contraception is gnrwrally considered a major condition to improve women's health. Meanwhile, it is hard to ovaluato the impact of Viagra on nll'n's lwalth." the group said in a state­nwnt. "The current government cares more about pleasure of nwn than hoalth care for wonwn." tho group said. Polish medical authorities approved Viagra for the Polish rnark(•t on Wedrwsday. 
Dow 
AMEX: 
606.23
}ONES 
-7.21 Nasdaq:
7615.54 
0 
I 585.33 -39.22 NYSE: 487.77 -12.80 S&P 500: 980.19 
Composite
-26.01 Volume:
-249.48 875,773,285 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 
COMI'ANY  TICI<ER  VP/IJOWN  %CHANGE  PRICE  
Dell  DELL  ·2.3750  ·4.16  54.75  
Lora I  LOR  ·5.0625  ·28.03  13.00  
SPDR  SPY  ·2.0000  ·1.99  98.5  
Intel Corp Cisco Syatemo Microsoft  INTC csco MSFT  ·2.18575 -2.3750 ·1.5000  -2.69 ·2.62 ·1.47  79.06 88.44 100.75  
Travellers  TRV  ·0.5625  ·1.40  39.5  
SPDR  COMS  +1.9375  +7.64  27.31  

•INDONESIA 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
JAKAHTA 
Hiot police and troops guarded Indonesia's presi­dential palace Thursday, warily watching over stu­dents planted on the pave­ment to demand the presi­dent rein in soaring food prices or quit. 
About 700 chanting demonstrators sat down on a road near the palace. dis­persing peacefully after about three hours. More than 1,000 police and troops stood by; there were no reports of arrests or injuries. 
It was the fourth straight day of bold student protest against President B.J. Habibie, who is struggling with Indonesia's worst eco­nomic crisis in 30 years and trying to reform an autocrat­ic political system. 
Discontent with Habibie's crisis-bound presidency has been mounting. Looting and riots fueled by climbing food prices have hit several areas in recent days. Thursday's demonstration, however, was the first major protest at the palace since Habibie took office in May. 
On Monday, students tore down the gates of the parlia­ment. Troops and police used sticks, shields and tear gas to evict them from its grounds on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 4,000 people in Indonesia's second-largest city, Surabaya, protested ris­ing prices during a visit by Habibie. 
Thursday's demonstration at the white-pillared presi­dential palace com piex came despite warnings from the powerful military that it supports the presi­dent. Habibie held a series of meetings inside the com­pound while the protesters sat outside. 

He asked a group of Muslim leaders to help calm the overwhelmingly Islamic nation, then dis­cussed painful economic reforms with International Monetary Fund officials. 
The IMF's top official in Asia, Hubert Neiss, called for immediate action to curb soaring rice prices to prevent more unrest. Neiss urged more rice be put onto the Indonesian mar­ket and said distribution of subsidized rice must be "rapidly expanded." 

prctt~'t over
fiOO r.'Jii(<1 
skyroel:ellng
E2S 
fctoo pnces
5-.."lCl~m 

Air Force grounds training aircraft for safety 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASI-IINGTON 
One of the Air Force's primary train­ing aircraft will be grounded for at least another two years, the service announced yesterday, in a move that forces the Air Force to screen prospective pilots at civilian aviation schools. 
The absence of an Air Force screen­ing program, coupled with an ongoing drain of Air Force pilots to the private sector, means the service is not going to be able to produce enough pilots "to meet Air Force mission requirements in the future," officials at the Air Force's Air Education and Training Command warned in a statement. 
In July 1997, Gen. Lloyd Newton, who is in charge of the command, ordered the fleet of 110 T-3A "Firefly" training aircraft grounded after a series of unexplained engine failures. Six people had been killed since 1995 in the planes -three Air Force Academy cadets and three of their teachers. 
In a statement issued Thursday, the service said it was holding to the flight suspension and putting all the aircraft into a "minimal maintenance status," while flight testing and modifications to the planes continued. The engine problem has not been solved. said Lt. Col., Barbara Claypool, a spokes­woman for Newton's command, locat­ed at Randolph Air Foree Base outside San Antonio. Half the planes will remain at the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo., and half at llondo Municipal Airport outside San Antonio, Claypool said. 

"During the interim period of contin­ued suspension of T -3A flight opera­tions, AETC is planning for pilot candi­dates to attend civilian night training at locations throughout the country to gain flight experience before entering full-fledged Air Force pilot training," the statement said. 

'I
I' 
I' I' 



page 6 

Egan: rediscover, respect the soul 
By RUTH SNELL 
News Wrirer 
Thn soul is an animating principle of individual life and is a person's total self, accord­ing to Keith Egan, Joyee
• 
McMahon Hank Aquinas pro­fessor in Catholic Theology. 
Egan explored the nature of the soul Thursday in the semes­ter's first Center for Spirituality Lecture, "Searching For the Soul," by explaining what a the­ologian considers as he timidly ponders the nature of the soul. 
Since Vatican II, according to Egan, the true nature of soul has been buried by popular cul­ture. The soul has also been disregarded because of its sup­posed duality, he said, which is separate from the body. 
Egan said he hopes to redis­cover the art of speaking about 
International Economic M 
e

A special round table discussion among faculty and I students 
t

Monday, September 14, 1998, 
d

at 4:15pm 
0

C-103, Hesburgh Center 
w

Panelists: 
n?

•
Professor Ilene Grabel, Visiting Fellow, Kellogg Institute, and Graduate School of International Studies, University of Denver 

•
Professor Kwan Kim, Fellow, Kellogg Institute, and Department of Economics, University of Notre Dame 

•Professor 
Jeffrey Bergstrand, College of Business Administration, University of Notre Dame 


Join us to discuss the present and future status of the global economy. Cosponsored with the Department ofFinance 
the inner life of the person by excavating the soul, especially through theological anthropolo­gy. 
Examining poetry is one of the ways to do this, he noted. 
"Poets are angels of the soul," he said. He quoted Edith Stein, a martyr at Ausehwitz, as say­ing, "It is through poetry that the soul is most adequately deseribed." 
In early Hebrew scriptures, the soul was a whole, indivisi­ble body, he said. The notion of soul included the body and therefore the whole person. 
Citing writings from Thomas Aquinas, Thomas Merton and Augustine of Hippo, Egan sup­ported the idea about the soul's composition. Aquinas examined Greek philosophy about soul, and consequently, his rumina­tions about it are used as 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

AIBS selected Mcintosh for "his exceptional effort to dis­seminate the biological and natural history science, for his elegant research and writing about history of ecology, and for his long~term service to numerous editorial boards and fed~r4l agencies such as the National Science founda­tion." 
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1958, Mcintosh served as program director for ecology for the National Science Foundation, and as secretary of the Ecological Society of America. He bas also taught at Middlebury College [Vermontl and at Vassar College. 
Mcintosh is also author of 
For 89 years. the American Midland Naturalist has pub­lished papers covering broad areas of natural history. 
"Today the Naturalist holds a unique place in the body of natural history periodicals," according)() the. citation given Mcintosh. <'It is neither a house organ for the University of Notre Dame nor for any learned society. It stands alone, true to its founding edi­tor's purpose. as a vehicle for the dissemination of biological literature." 
Along with his work as edi­tor of the Naturalist, Mcintosh continues research, writing, and lecture on the theory and history or~cology; and is now working q~ ~cieptiflc articles. 
benchmark. 
Aquinas, according to Egan, said "the soul is what makes the human person who she is and what she is." 
Egan stressed that a unified soul and body have the eapacity to be close to God and this capacity is provided by the soul. 
The depths of the soul were also diseussed. Egan utilized quotes comparing the soul to rum and a "wine cellar of the holy spirit, where lambs can swim and elephants can pad­dle." 
Debt 

continued from page 1 
year option. 

''I'm concerned about any of this debt going past next year," said director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy. "Then you are straddling future stu­dents with what is the debt of last year's administration." 
The final recommendations for retiring the student union deficit will be presented to the Student Senate next Wednesday for their approval. 
SUB representatives expressed confidence that the Board would be able to retire the debt without any significant loss in programming. 
"I don't think it should impact us too negatively," said SUB controller Kevin Kileen after the meeting. "I have a lot of faith in 
T.J. [Wolfe, the student union treasurer.] They're not going to cripple us." 
Kileen notes that SUB events are often difficult to budget, and that the Board is not intended to be a profit-making institu­tion. 
"We want to make quality programming available at all times, and it doesn't always make money," he said. "Some of it is almost impossible to make money on." 
The controller did say that some minor events may be can­celed for a year or two, but that SUB would focus on improved communication between pro­grammers and budgeters, as well as giving program coordi­nators more involvement in the budgeting process in order to reduce losses. 
"The quality of programming won't dip significantly," he pledged. 
-~---­---~·----­ 'I 'I  
Friday, September I I, 1998  The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS  page 7  

Mansfield defines responsible man 
C-SPAN brings 
news to life in SMC 
classrooiD 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE News Wilter 
soeially constmcted ... per­haps manliness can be abstracted from males and reconstructed into some­

Lecturer looks 
into gender 
thing sexually neutral," he said.

characteristics 
Mansfield also addressed st~xual roles in soeiety, say­

By STACY CRAFT 
ing that men and women News Writrr alike can be hindered by conwmtion in career choices 
Tlw modnrn snnsitiVI' man 
and family life. rnroJ.{nizns womnn's rwnds "The advantage of sex 
and wants, and pavns thn roles is that you know what way l'or stronJ.{Pr, mort! com­
to oxpect and socioty knows pldt• gnndPr n>lations, 
what to expm~t." he said. "A according to llarvny 
search for identity often Mansf'iPid. a govPrnmnnt 
becomes a search for the proi'Pssor !'rom Harvard 
easy way out." UnivPrsity. 
Putting sexual roles aside, Mans l'i n I d 's In t~ t u r e Ias t 
Mansfield talked about niJ.{ht titled "Tho 
responsibility, which he Hnsponsihln Man" sought to del'ined as "acting on one's dPfinn tlw traditional eon­
own for the good of others" r.t>pl ol' manlirwss in tlw eon­
and "taking charge in a sit­tnxt ol' modnrn l'nminism. 

ernment Harvey Mansfield delivered a 
lecture titled "Responsible Man" last 
night. 
doseribml sensitivity as "rec­ognizing women's needs and wants" and "paving the way for ambitious women." 
"Mnn must look at matters from a woman's point of view," Mansfield asserted. 
Politieal, social, and intellec­tual settings all provide oppor­tunitins to define different aspects ol' manlinBss, he con­tinued. Tho traditional man bnhavos differently from the traditional woman in all of these situations. Tho question, according to Mansfield, is whethnr or not these differ­ences aro eausnd "by nature or nurturn." 
"If thnso differences are 
Current events aren't just for newspapers in professor Jeffrey Breese's classroom. 
Starting this spring, Breese and his Saint Mary's College stu­dents will make the news como alive through a new educa­tional program called "C-SPAN in the Classroom," which allows students to take advantage of Internet, programming and video resources sponsored by the cab!() notwork. 
"Tho possibilities are li.rpitloss," Breese said. 
Breese will infuse the cable network's resources into his Introduction to Sociology class, where students will ust~ C­SPAN programming to aid a 30-minute presnntation of a topic covered during the semester. Students will also view C-SPAN outside or class to stay on top of' eurrent events, Brt~ese said. 
Viewing C-SPAN's political programming can often put a current event into context, Breese said. For example, in the Introduction to Sociology class, discussions on flag burning can be enhanced by programming that incorporates senators discussing the issue as well as citizens that have gone to court for burning flags. 
"It shows a (;ontext of why it's an impol'tant issue," Breese explained. ''There's a lot to it besides boring Congress peo­ple." 
Opportunities also exist in research capabilities, as students can search the Internet to expand on knowledge gained in class. 
"If my students are reading a certain author in class, they can check the programming guidti to see if that author will be on C-SPAN," Breese said. "It's a rare opportunity after reading an author to see her talk about it." 
Furthermore, the reliability of the medium is something that cannot be matched anywhere else, Breese said. 
"I am not a humongous Internet fan," Breese said. "In fact. l tend to be critical of it. But with the C-SPAN site, I am com­fortable with the level of sophistication and training behind it." 
The spring semester will not be the first time that Breese has used the cable network in his classroom. 
As a teacher at Youngstown State College in Youngstown, Ohio, Breese had students mimic a political program, "American Perspectives," and interview community leadt~rs. 
Because of Breese's involvement in "(>SPAN in the Classroom," he was selected as one of 35 educators from a pool of 4,900 to attend C-SPAN's "Summtir 1998 Seminar for Professors" this past August. 
The seminar assembled educators from secondary schools and colleges nationwide to discuss ways to implement C­SPAN's public affairs programming into classroom curriculum and research. · 
The network's opportunity extends beyond a political scope, said Breese, the only sociologist present at the seminar. Attendees ranged from communication professors to art histo­ry. 
'The topics discussed on the network -environment, social security, tax redistribution, cloning -can lend itself to any discipline," Breese said. "It ean benefit anyone interested in political events." 
C·SPAN was founded in 1979 as a means to provide unedit­ed and balanced access to the political proeess. 
"C-SPAN in the Classroom" is a service designed in 1987 by the network exclusively f<H' educators as a touching rcsouree, and currently is used by 15,000 elementary, high school and college educators nationwide. 
Mansl'it>ld said that manli­rwss is a tnrm ol'tnn thought or as "quaint and ohsolntn" in today's society bneausn of our (Ht>l'nrt~nrn for J.{t~rHinr nt>utral tnrms. Charaetnristies ol' manlinnss arn traditionally rouraJ.{I', honor, and l'rank­
rwss. 
"Most l'nminists havt> onn prohiPm with manlint~ss -it is not opPn to womt)n," l'vlanslkld said. 
liP suggnstnd that fnminisrn attarks l't>mininity and tnlls womnn that it is "lwttnr to be a man." Thus. wornnn havn disdain for tlw tt>rrn manliness lwrausn tiH~Y l'nnl that it t>xdudns thl'm from attaining thn qualilins traditionally assorialt>d with tiH• ttn·m. 
Mansf'inld rontinund by introducing tlw rorH~npt ol' thn 111 od I' r n stnl s i t ivn m a n . II n 
uation  of difficulty  and  
changing it."  
His conclusion  was  that  

responsibility consists of' many parts which require qualities both traditionally 
male and traditionally female. "Hesponsibility works best when divided," he said. 
Mansl'ield's presentation was the inaugural lecture of this year's Eric and Mary Welfald University of Notre Dame Press Lectures, an annual series established by Franklin Welfald. Well'ald, a cardiolo­gist who lives in South Bend, began the lecture series as a memorial to his brother and sister-in-law who were killed in an automobile accident in France. 
Mansfield is a political scien­tist, Machiavelli scholar. and the author of several books on many topics. 

Please recycle this newspaper. 
NEW LOCATION 

(DMPUSMINISTRY 
FOR STUDENT CONVENIENCE 
CAMPUS UIULE STUDY 
WILL MEET EACH 
TUESDAY EVENING 7:00PM THE BADIN HALL CHAPEL NEXT MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMUER 15, 7:00 PM REV. AL D'ALONZO, esc REFRESHMENTS FOLLOW ALL ARE WELCOME' 
Innovate. 


At Abbott Laboratories, everything we do is directed toward one goal: to improve 
!
lives. In fact, since 1888, Abbott has been producing innovative healrh care products and services that have been improving people's lives worldwide. And, wilh more than 54,000 dedicated employees and a presence in more th•n 130 countries, our products and services are as diverse as those creating them. Our employees contribute a wide variety of opinions, perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences. Yet !hey share a common objective: rhe desire lo make a difference. From pharmaceuticals and diagnostics to nulrilionals and hospilal-related producls, our varied businesses have been making a significant difference in the health care industry and in people's lives. With annual sales at $12 billion and one of the best long-term financial performance records in the corporate world, we intend to conlinue providing quality health care products far inlo !he future. 
You too, can make a difference with a career at Abbott Laboratories. We are seeking talenled sludents in the following disciplines: Rtsearch & Development, Production/Operations, Sales & Marketing/Business Development, Engineering. Information Technology, Finance and Accounting/Business, and Human Resources. 
Make a difference in the world. Join the team dedicated to improving lives. 
a 
ABBOTT 
LABORATORIES 
Gu•lty H..lth C•re Worldwide 

www.abbott.com Abbott will be al the MBA/Undergrad Career Fair on 9/17 and Industry Day on 9/23. Studenls unable to meet wilh Abbott at these even Is may e-mail a resume lo: www.abbott.com/career. Equal Opportunity £mployer. 

~ ~ ~~~-------~-~-" -" 
1

' I ' \ f \ t t \ • I • • I • ~ I f I I I 1 • 
0 ,. " 
\I I 1' 1 • I I \I I, I I I , I • \ • 1 I • I I -1 1,' , 1 ' • I ' II 

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 11, 1998 
Procter & Gamble 
presents 
Leadership Opportunity Advancement 
featuring 
Clayt Daley Chief Financial Officer 
where -when 
Jordan Auditorium 
(College of Business 
·Building) 
Discuss career opportunities with P & G representatives from: •Finance & Accounting 






...-~---------=:-----~--­ --~-...---~------------~----~--........~~---~-----..._..------~-~~---~--­'I  
f-riday, September I I, 1998  The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 --~------~----------------------------------~~~  

Report to claim Perjury and Abuse 
WASI!!NGI'ON 
Tlw n•port SPilt to Congn~ss by tlw Whitewat<'r in<IPp<'rHI<'nl counsel, Kenneth Starr. r.on­tPnds that evidence shows that I' r e s i d <' n t Clinton com­mitted JWr­jury. obstrud­Pd justice, tampered with wilnnss­<'S and abused tlu• pow<•r of his oiTi<-P in trying to covnr up llll affair with Monica l.1•winsky, lawyPrs familiar with tlw n·port said Thursday. 
Starr's 44!i-page l'nport. how­nvPr, lists no impPachabln ollnns<~s arising from tlw major­ity of Starr's four-ynar-old inquiry on surh matters as tho faibl Whit<•watnr land deal, tlw alh•gmlmisusP ul' FBI Iiles or the allegnd roverup in the Whitn llous<• travd ollirn matter. 
Lawyers did say the report draws parallnls hntwenn the Whit<' llousP conduct in the LPwinsky inquiry anrl dforts that tlwy say wPr<' madn during tlw WhitPwater inquiry to covnr up what actually happPned. 
Tlw rnport assnrts that Clinton li<'d during his dvil dnposition in tlw Paula .Jorws snxual miseon­durt lawsuit in .January and during his grand jury testimony last month from thn White llousn, thrPe lawynrs who insist­Pd on anonymity said. 
In a 140-page snction that out­lin<'s possible grounds l'or inqwachnwnt, pros<~eutors use graphi<: descriptions of snxual <'rH·ountPrs to try to contradiet Clinton's months-long denial of his rnlationship with Ms. L<'winsky. Tlwy also ar.ruse Clinton of abusing tlw power ol' his ol'lkl' by using gowrnnwnt n•sourres to att<'mpt to thwart Starr·'s inquiry for seven months, thP lawynrs said. Abuse of powl'r was on<' of the 


.......... ·~. 
--·:i/;i: 
impeachment counts leveled 
against Hichard 
Nixon in I 97 4. 
That section also outlines 
Starr's contention that the presi­
dent rei i<~d on government 
lawyers and senior aides to deny 
repeatedly to the public that 
Clinton had had an inappropri­
ate or improper relationship 
with Ms. 
Lewinsky, tlw 25-year-old for­mer White llouso intern. And, the lawyers said, prosocu tors are also critical of the privilego claims filed by government lawynrs to try to block the grand jury Wstimony of White House aides and lawyers. 
Prosecutors also give details that they say show how Clinton tried to influence the testimony of Ms. Lewinsky and his person­al secretary. 
They also include evidence that they say dmnonstrates that he obstructed justiee through trying to help Ms. Lewinsky find a job and retrinve gifts that had been subpoenaed in tho Jones case. 
The long-awaited report, which the House of Hoprcsentatives plans to post on the Internet on Friday, is "a damaging narrative that reads like a novel," one lawyer famil­iar with its contents said Thursday. "It aecuses the presi­dent of lying and obstructing, over and over." 
The report culminated an investigation into Clinton that began on .Jan. 12, 1994, under Hobert Fiske .I r. and then con­tinued later that year under Starr. 
During a meeting with Senate Dmnocrats at the White I louse, Clinton assured them they would find "no surprises" in Starr's rnport. 
David Kendall, tho president's lawyer, said Thursday that the roport is nothing more than a collection of prosecutors' "eon­tentions, claims and allegations and wn look forward to tlH~ chance to relmt them." 
Interested 
Student 
A copy of the report was not made available to The New York Times, but tho shape of the report was describnd in inter­views on Thursday with three lawyers. 
The referral to Congress of possible impeaehable offensns does not condude Starr's crimi­nal inquiry. Starr's prosecutors have grand juries still active, which might pursun eriminal charges against presidential aides whose actions are seen by prosecutors as aiding a systemic White I louse abuse of power. 
The foundation of the obstruc­tion of justice portion of the report is the allegation that Clinton played a pivotal role in an attempt by his friend, Vernon Jordan, to find Ms. Lewinsky a job in the private sector last December, the lawyers said. The report also lays out a ease that the president played a role in Ms. Lewinsky's decision to return several presidential gifts, which had been sought by a subpoena from Jones' lawyers, they said. 
Both actions were intended to keep Ms. Lewinsky from telling the truth to the Jones lawyers, the prosecutors contend. 
In his grand jury testimony, Clinton denied that he had sought to help Ms. Lewinsky seeure a job or retrieve the gifts, his allies have said. 
The report also details the fact that Clinton summoned his sec­retary, Bntty Currie, to the White House on Sunday, Jan. 18, the day after Clinton was asked a series of questions about Ms. Lewinsky in the Jones ease. 
In February, a White House official dismissed the Currie meeting as an eiTort by the pres­ident to "refrnsh his recollec­tion" about Ms. 
Lewinsky's visits and other matters. But the report aw~sts that Clinton asked Ms. Currie questions to try to influence her as a potential witness in the Jones case, the lawyer said. 

meetings? 
.. 
Contact Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
(1-7970) for details or stop by 311 LaFortune Student Center 

Airline, pilots reach agreement 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Negotiators for Northwest Airlines and its pilots reached agreement Thursday on a deal that would end a strike that has grounded the ail'line for 13 days. 
"I think the strike is over," President Clinton announced at the White House after speaking by phone with lead­ers from the pilots' union and the company. 
Soon after Clinton spoke, spokesmen for the airline and the Air Line Pilots Association confirmed that a proposal to end the standofT would be put to a vote of the union's execu­tive board on Saturday. 
No details were released. Northwest's 6,100 pilots will remain on strike until at least Saturday, when the union's 17-member council will meet in Minneapolis to consider the proposal. 
Air Canada and its pilots also reached a tenttttive agreement Thursday night for ending a nine-day strike against Canada's largest air­line. 
Ratification of the agree­ment by the 2.100 Air Canada pilots is expected to take about three days. The airline said its 500 daily flights are expected to resume next Wednesday or Thursday. 
The Northwest development came as the length of the work-stoppage and its eeo­nomie cost was increasing the possibility that Clinton would have to intervene and order those pilot.:; back to work. 
Bruce Lindsey, one of Clinton's top advisers, had baen helping shepherd the talks toward agreement since Tuesday night. 
Sources familiar with tha negotiations, speaking on condition of anonymity, said all the major stumbling blocks had been cleared by late afternoon and that the parties were working on 
S4,00 All Shows Before 6 pm :1 b, Knock Off R 11 :30,1 :50, 4:40, 7:00, 9:20 Saving Private Ryan R 12:30, 1 :30, 4:00, 5:00, 8:00, 9:00 Rounders R 
1:10, 4:30, 7:15, 10:00 How Stella Got Her Groove R 2:00,4:50,7:40,10:10 Snake Eyes R 12:20,2:50,5:30,8:05, 10:25 Halloween H20 R 1:20, 3:30, 5:40, 8:10, 10:40 Annageddon PG-13 12:50, 4:20, 8:15 Zorro PG-13 12:45,4:10,7:05,9:55 Something About Mary R 12:00,2:35,5:10,7:45, 10:15 Ever After PG-13 12:40,3:50,6:45,9:30 Dr. Dolit1le PG-13 12:15, 2:20, 4:35, 6:50, 9:15 Letha1Weapon4 R 1:40, 5:05, 7:50, 10:30 Blade R 1:15,4:15,7:10,9:50 Dead Man on Campus R 11:50, 2:10, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 54 R '11 :40, 2:30, 4:45, 7:20, 9:40 
details of when the pilots would return to work. 
A tentative agreement would not be ollicial until the back-to-work deal was com­pleted and the pilots union's executive council either approved it or sent it out for 11 vote by tho striking pilots. 
Nevertheless, the company told mechanics to stop preparing planes for storage and began calling ground workers back from layoff. Mat·ta Laughlin, spokes­woman for the airline, said it will take 10 to 12 days before the airline is back to full sor­vice. 
The breakthrough came during overnight negotiations, as tho National Mediation Board's Maggie Jacobs(m kept discussions going until 4 
a.m. Thursday. 
Hoom for flexibility was found when the talks in Minnoapolis explored stock offers and profit-sharing to address the pilots' compensa­tion demands. 
The sources, who spoke only on condition of anonymi­ty, said the company respond­ed to a "signifieant offer" from the pilots later Thursday and that discussions contin­ued into the aftemoon. 
The airline's 6,100 pilots, who went on strike Aug. 28, have been negotiating a new contract for the past two years. 
.They were seeking a 14 percent salary increase over three years, while Northwest oiTered nine percent over four years. 
Lindsey, who traveled to Minneapolis to help in the talks, delayed his return to Washington on Thursday. The Clinton administration had resisted ordering the pilots back to work. but Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater confirmed Thursday that tht~ parties were informed that the presi­dent wouldn't be able to wait much longer. 

S4,00 All Shows Before 6 pm :J! b. Why Do Fools Fall in Love R 1:45,4:30,7:15,9:50 Something AboutMary R 1:30,4:15,7:00,9:40 KnockOff R 2:00, 4:45, 7:30, 10:00 


Why do Fools Fallin Love  R  
2:00, 4:45, 7:20, 9:55  
Dance With Me  PG  
1:20,4:10,7:00,9:40  
AlrBud2  G  
2:20, 4:30, 6:50, 9:00,  
Parent Trap  PG  
1:30,4:20,7:10,9:50  
Wrongfully Accused  PG-13  
2:30, 5:00, 7:05, 9:25  
Return to Paradise  R  
2:10,4:40,7:15,9:45  



------~----------------~ 
I I 
I 
I'

I -­
VIEWPOINT 
pagelO--------------------------------------------
----------------------Friday, September 11, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthalcr Kyle Carlin 
A.~SISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR.. .. ...... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry Mcl'ardin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ......._....... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR... . ......... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .... ....... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS. .. ......... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER... . ..-....... .Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR.. .. ... Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR . ... Kevin Dalum 
·rhe Observer is the indcpcndcnt newspaper published by the s£Udcnrs of rhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saini Mary's Collegt:. h docs not nece~-.arily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is 
reponed as accur:ucly and ohjecrivcly as possible. Unsigned editorials rcpresem rhc opinion of the ntajoriry of rhc f.diwr·in·Chicf. Managing EdilOr, A.....,;istam Managing Ediwr and departmem editors. Commcmaril-s, letters and columm. prcst!nt rhc vi.:ws of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space i~o available to all members of thc Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all rl'adcr~. The free expression of varying opinions 
rhrough lcuers i~ cnt:ouragc:d. 
Contacting The Observer F.diror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Editot/Assisram ME 631-4541 Advertising News/Photo 631-5323 Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax Scene//Saim Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail Office Manager/General lnformarion 631-7471 News E-Mail 
• THE BEAT 
631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoint. I @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews. 1 @nd.edu 


Title IX Revisited and Rewritten 
As we bask in the reflected glory of Saturday's thump­ing of the Michigan puppydogs, we who tend the flame of pigskin tradition at the most hallowed shrine to college football in the United States should take a moment to re­examine the role that football plays in intercollegiate athletics across the country. 
Football is 
the major 
moneymaker 
among team 

Brittany 
sports at Notre Dame, as it is at

Morehouse 
Division I 

-----========:...._____ most 
schools;

nothing else comes close. Not even the fanatical popularity of basket­ball, with league and national tournaments generating vast sums of television revenues each March, contributes to an athletic department's bottom-line like football-at least in the majority of universities. And while the impact of Fighting Irish football looms so large over our own institution and its manifold traditions, it paradoxi­cally highlights the fact that there is no equivalent to football (to call it "men's football" would be redundant) in all of women's collegiate sports. For every men's vol­leyball team, there is a equal and opposite women's vol­leyball team. Each male swimmer is more than likely to have his female counterpart. But no school has, or is likely to have in the post-Orwellian future, a women's football program. Thus, in a very real and significant sense, football is in a league of its own. 
The problem stemming from football's dominance of the four horsemen of the athletic landscape -participa­tion. publicity, power and profit-is that it is paradoxi­cally causing or contributing to the demise of other, less successful male athletic programs in the name of Title IX's mandate of gender equality. 
Enacted in 1972, Title IX requires all educational insti­tutions which receive federal funds to offer equal oppor­tunities, including participation in team sports and orga­nized athletic programs, to male and female students alike. However, at the collegiate level, athletic directors and coaches of men's sports have argued for years that colleges have been sacrificing the less popular and less profitable of men's team sports so that women's sports prot,rrams and facilities could be funded. Such critics point out that the early track record of most of these compulsory mirror-image programs is mediocre at best: they hold relatively little interest for many female stu­dents, achieve scant notoriety or popularity, and operate in the red. On the other hand, proponents of women's athletic programs respond by pointing to the spartan facilities and resources allocated to female athletes. They maintain the real culprit is that Trojan Horse of sports, football. Football siphons off too much of an ath­letic department's budget, they charge, and the sheer size of any football team creates an imbalance in the number of male and female athletes. 
•  DooNESBURY  
H&Y, 8./J./ COMe SAYH/3U07D MYN/3PHW Z/Pf'eR/  ZffffKgA afJW.,, R<OSH. H&!? ter:£NP-(j(}/NG 7D8& MY PIAYING NIK& FO!< YOUANI? COACH TH& 8/GB.I?./ SIAICXJSH \ 7H15FAU.f \  

I can certainly understand the rage and frustration felt by student-athletes when their prized but low-rated (i.e., low revenue) men's sports programs are eliminated. This happened to our own men's wrestling team in 1992. (Wait: we have a wrestling team? Excuse me, ----r _......,_ that is: had a wrestling team.)....,.-~ . But I also empathize with those who point out that, were it not for the huge bud-_....,__ 
gets and large roster sizes of ----­
varsity football programs, we could have both men's and women's sports of every exot-~ ic and popular kind. 
The skirmish over Title IX compliance is usually fought over a three-pronged test: (i) f whether athletic opportuni­ties offered to male and female students are tially proportionate" to their respective enrollments, (ii) whether the college can demonstrate a history of con­tinuously expanding athletic opportunities for women, or 
(iii) whether the institution has fully accommodated the interests and needs of its female athletes. A collegiate athletic program that satisfies any one of the three stan­dards is in compliance with Title IX. 
However, if the sport of football imbalances the gender equation, why should it be included in determining Title IX compliance? It is unique among intercollegiate athlet­ics as we have seen. Therefore, I raise the question, what if football were separated from all other sports as far as Title IX statistical compliance were concerned? Why should it be lumped with all other sports when it properly and ineluctably stands alone? 
Don't get me wrong; I am not arguing that Title IX should be abolished. After all, for every four years gone by without the complete fulfillment of Title IX, an entire graduating class of female athletes loses its chance to participate completely and fully in intercollegiate athlet­ics. However, I am suggesting that there is an inherent flaw in the way Title IX is tackled. 

Congress should rewrite the regulations and guidelines pertaining to Title IX compliance to remove football from the requirements of the three-pronged test. Leaving the size, prestige and revenues of football out of the statisti­cal variables would promote both the maintenance of existing men's varsity sports and the expansion of cor­relative women's programs. 
Football provides more sustenance for the soul than 
merely a few hours of neanderthal entertainment. It adds to the spiritual unity of this time and place in any season of any year. Sunday evening following the Michigan game I visited the Grotto. There, I found many more lighted candles than I had ever seen before. There were even some personalized candles that people had brought themselves. In fact, there were so many that they spilled over onto the nearby grounds, covering rocks and 
Uool,......,.~:._ surrounding Our Lady with a breathtaking display of faith. Some undoubtedly were evi­dence of gratitude for prayers safely delivered to Her care. It was amazing. 
Funny how one event, one weekend of bringing people together to participate in a 

communal rite, can so easily hold together the hands and hearts and the spirit and the spirituality-of this Notre Dame family. A Title IX jurisprudence freed of the gender jealousy caused by football envy is more likely to breed success in its intended and salutary goals. 
Brittany Morehouse is a sophomore English and American Studies major living in Howard /Iall. She works in the Sports Information Department as a Student Assistant. Her column appears every other Thursday. Yes, we know it's Friday, but she will appear on Thursdays from now on. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
THAT5 FUNNY-I 
PON'TReM&M813R ReC/?1JIT/N6 YOU. 
I YOU I?IPN'T/ I'M A IA/At-K-ON5/iNSAT/ON, ..rtJ5TUK£MYUNCi£ ZONK£1<IUA§ IN 0/..1?8N T/M/35/ 
I 
'In vino veritas.' (In wine there is truth.) -Pliny the Elder 
~----~-~~~~~-----­
'. ''. .' 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September II, 1998 os~ERVER page II 
• SUPER HIGH INTENSITY TRAINING FOR THE MIND 
Frosh Survival Guide 
If you're looking for deep philo· 
sophical, theological. or moral writ· 
ing, you'vfJ tuMd in to the wrong 
column. (Try two inches to the right 
for a great ser·ious column.) 
Whereas others have taken entire 
columns to set up their goals for 
their eolumns lhis year, I would like 
to tako an entire sentence. 
I intend to provoko thought 
always, amuse when I ean, and 
never bore. 
Not your typieal intro? Good. Not 
your typieal column. 
On to business. 
I'd like to b~\ the first to welcome 
the ft·eshmon and freshwomen (oh, 
did I forget to mention that I'm also 
painfully politically correct?) to 
!~amp us. 
Spencer Stefko 

As a measure of hospitality, I would like to present you with a freshman guide to survival tjust like it says above in l-inch tall letters). 
First, we'll nood to work on your vocabulary. You may think you know what these eommonly·used terms mean, but keep an open mind. Failure to leam these could be disastrous. 
Six-pack-meant: Tho wash­board appearanco of the abdominal muscles on a fit individual. If you're n freshman lift up your shirt and you'll soo what I mean. 
Six-pack-means: Breakfast before the Purdue game. K(lgstancl-meant: The stand on which one places a keg. 
Kegstcmd-means: An ancient ritual that involves inversion of an individual and dispensation of a fer­mented beverage known as beer directly into the individual's mouth until thnir· logs bflgin to involuntarily twitch. In ancient times, wao; thought to be an o1Tering to the god Boot. So when someone asks you to "Do a kngstand," they're really just asking you to drink, not perform SO!llll for•bidden aet Upon a table. 
Hoot -meant: a covoring worn on one's foot in any tough eomli· lions. particularly harsh weather or on rough tnrrain. 
Boot -means: to unswallow; most ofl<m used in reference to stomach virusns or absurd alcohol <:onsumption; soo "kegstand." 
/look-up-meant: depending on which part of the country you're from. tho moaning can vary from nwnting at a prrdetermined place to some sort of' Clinton-esque act (or both). 
Hook-up-fn('WIS: a smooch alhw consumption of mu!~h alcohol: usually lhllowed by running around and tc~lling everyone that you know and a few pPople you don't know; most ollPJl ao:ompanind by awk· wardncss next timn you see your ft)llow kisser aJ)(Vor feeling of regret in llrf' morning 
Ft\Q-meant: an insult hurlod at pretty much anything that didn't go your way; pronounc!•d as though tho lirst two lettnrs worn a word. then 11dding the last ldter pro­rHnmc·ed a.•.; it is in tlw alphabet. 
1':4Q-mea11s: computer parlance for Fr·pquontly Asked Question. So if you screw up on a computer and Uw friendly operating system starts spnwing forth stuff about FAQs, it's rrally just trying to help. So beating, drop-kicking, biting, mangling, maiming, whipping, thrashing, bat­tering, drubbing, destroying, or in any other way trying to injure your computer is horribly poor form. Especially in the computer cluster. 
Now that we've got the vocabulary down, a few pointers for campuslite. 
KEEP AN OPEN MIND 

I don't care what youread or what it's rated, but for the sake of your ability to think individually; stay away from anything that has anything to do with Right Reason, Common Sense, the College Democrats, or the College Republicans. The only thing these publications and groups do is make people dumber, and they'ro painful to read even ifyou agree with them. 
See, here's the game: we'll line up on opposite sides of some imaginary 
continuum and hurl insults back 
and forth, trying to make each 
other look stupid. Whoever looks 
stupider wins. Guess what: you 
both win. 
Here's why: original thought is 
discouraged. If you try to vary 
from the traditional liberal stance 
on something, don't expect to ever 
be heard in Common Sense or in 
the College Democrats. Same goes tor the other side ofthis continuum. Folks, listen closely: politlcaJ P!U'ties were established and exist to pro" vide voting stability within the inherently unstable voting frame­work of democracy. You're 20 years old and you're already restricting yourself to a particular ideology? God help us alL There is one person on campus who should be restricted by a political ideology and that is former Senator Bill Bradley. 
If I want to know what Right Reason. has to say, I'll search for "Jesse Helms" or "Pat Buchanan" on Netscape. As for Common ~ense, a great young man might say, "It's· all a bunch oftree·hugginghippie crap," 
So keep your mind open through­out all your years here. Call yourself "individuaL" If someone tells you that you're conservative so you should think this way hit them as hard as you possibly can in the throat. They won't bother you for awhile. 
DORM LIFE 

Before you make up your mind that you don't like campus life, get out and know the people in your hall. Quit asking wherll the fraterni· ties are. I've been to a university with Greek lite, and ror my money, Uw only Greek liti1 I want on cam­pus is some guy named Seikaly down the hall. Zahm has given me everything a fr·aternity ever could and more. (Except the pretentious letters.) Oh, and remember, Zahm is the best dorm on campus. 
ClASS SELECTION 

Take something interesting and challenging. I know, ceramics looks great as a blow-off class, and you and your roommates can have a contest to see who ean make the biggest and most phallic symbols. But you can have the rest of your life to blow off things. 
I am white. (See picture above.) I knew nothing of African·Amorican history but ain taking it this semes­ter. I have been to five lectures so far. I have yet to hear something l already knew. Every other class I've had here I've had a base to build on. 
In this class. I'm struggling to keep my head above water. But guess what my favorite class is. 
Enjoy your four years and don't forget to take pictures. Good luck. 
Spencer Stefko is a Senior American Studies major. 
The views expressed in this col· umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• THE HAllDOG 

PSA Abortion Stance Flawed 
Abortion. I am surprised if you are still read­ing this column. The word alone discourages most readers because what usually follows is an endless circle of equally valid, but opposing arguments. Here I will address an invalid argu­ment obscured by the inclusion of personal frustration. 
The article written by Sophie Fortin and Jennifer Weaver for the Progressive Student Alliance presents a valid thesis: in a capitalist society where only the fittest survive, pregnant women suffer an economic disadvantage. Naturally, this is true. However, the argument based on government inaction and "disrespect" because, "In a sociological context, it becomes obvious that for women there is no choice to make." The system "economically cripplelsl" the woman and then "coerce[s]" her to bear a child she "feels" she cannot finance. And obvi­ously, this is a "violent function of sexism" because, "The moral, social, and legal responsi­bility of a healthy baby falls solely upon a moth­er's shoulders." 

Presently, the system economically assists the woman or allows her the choice to abort, even during the third trimester in some states. Without a doubt, this is a dillicult choice, but it is a choice only an individual can make. The 
for the poor is inherently '!!!!!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!!!!:!!!~ system otTers social assistance flawed. and legal protection for the Fortin and Weaver claim mother and her baby, but the
B b 

that "our current government system cannot and should not
Q 

(dominated by conservative assume moral responsibility for ideology) has made no move any individual's actions. to improve public life with Welfare provides our society
Kerr 
regard to [minority rights], while audaciously agreeing to disrespect the poor with an attempt at 'welfare reform."' They claim that the Government only "half­heartedly" addresses abortion and welfare because it is "unwilling to spend any money, change any priorities or challenge any vested interests." These claims are completely unfounded. 
The United States Government definitely has made a "move," also know as The Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996. This Act created TANF {Temporary Assistance for Needy Families) which is designed to promote the for­mation and maintenance of two-parent family structures, marriage, steady employment. and child care. The Act specifically outlines state programs to "prevent and reduce the incidence of out-of-wedlock pregnancies and establish annual numerical goals for preventing and reducing the incidence of these pregnancies." 
Furthermore, the Government has continued its commitment to active reform by targeting the "hardest-to-employ recipients ofTANF." The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 authorizes The U.S. Department of Labor to distribute $3 billion dollars during 1998 and 1999 to State and local communities 
through "Welfare-to-Work~ Grants." Whether it is employ­ment, rehabilitation, or 
community service, wei­fare recipients must now do something for their money. Single fathers are forced to provide child support, and single moth­crs arn required to main­tain tlw domestic environ· mont that Fortin and 
Weaver demand. Basically, the current wei· fare reform promotes responsibility where responsibility is lacking. 
Yes, the problems relat­ed to sexism, patriarchy, eapitalism, and conservative ideology deserve attention, but we must take one thing at a time. IIern we are dealing with abortion and the Government's responsibility to provide women the ability to adequately bear and care for ehil­dren. 
Money has been spent, priorities have been changed, and welfare's legal structure has been challenged and completely renovated. The sys­tmn is now dependent on the people and their specific needs. Yet, Fortin and Weaver aim to "ovorthrow the systems of capitalism and patri· archy" that nnsure the dominance of men and tim exploitation of' women. Their solution: a "national socialist consciousness." Their goal: "deep regard and rnspect for allliiP.." 
The Government has provided concn1te legis­lation, but Fortin and Weaver prefer to estab­lish a "consciousness." Food, shelter, clothing, childcare centers, and free contraceptives. A government can provide these things. 
The United States Government provides thesfl things. A government can spend billions of dol· Iars on programs designed to promote respect for life and moral responsibility, but in this arena, a government can only "promote." 
"Respect for all life" originates in the individ­ual. According to Fortin and Weaver, abortion should not be examined on an individual level with aid, not solutions. Unwed pregnancies present numerous problems and severe inconve· niences. The Government pro­

vides relief, but in order to maintain our Constitutional right to freedom, the Government can intervene no further. Fortin and Weaver demand reform. This demand has been met. Now the success of the system resl'i on the indi­vidual's moral contribution to the system. Social, economic, and legal protection coupled with moral responsibility may not solve tho problems of abortion and 11quality among all members of society, but it will significantly alle­viate the suffering of "the many." 
This is the naturn of any society, capitalist or socialist. Like welfare, capitalism and socialism establish ideals towards whieh we must work within a system to attain. But just for the sake of the argument, overthrow our Government and establish a "national socialist conscious­ness." The only difference is that in addition to abortion and inequality, we will read about a crippling tax program and a Joss of personal initiative. 
This is America, the Land of the Free. The Government ean only assume moral responsi­bility in the name of a more perfect union, jus­lice, domestic tranquility, defense, and the gen­
era! welfare. Currnntly, the right to life depends 
on a scientifie definition of 'life,' and abortion is a matter of free choice. 
Fortin and Weaver argue that, "Making abor­tion illegal does not in any way reform thn cultural ideologies that support and maintain its exis· tonee." This is trun in thn snnsn that no pinr.n of' leg­islation will surviw in this eountry without tlw par­tidpation and bnlinf of thn peoplo. 
We can outlaw abor­lion, but tlw economic and social problmns will rmnain until tlw individ­

ual takos rnsponsibility li>r his God-givn right of free will. 
Unfortunately, our definition of "lifn" justilind 35 million reported abortions bntwnnn I1)73 and 1997 (Alan Guttmadwr lnstitutn). :{5 mil­lion. A eountry that allows 35 million abortions has more problmns than an inadnquatn welfare program. Wn arn living in a society that exchanged the burdcm of morality for sdnnti!ic theory. "Hight" and "wrong" have bncomn thn subjects of sei<mti!k textbooks, and th<~ individ­ual is justified in sacrificing his or lwr moral contribution to the systmn for a dnar conscious. 
Until the individual incorporatns moral considerations into his or her dnlinition of lifn and makns decisions basnd on thesn morals. no amount of monny or governnwnt program will solve the problnm or nvnn all<~viatn thn sulli•r­ing. 
Bearing a (:hild incurs an nnormous Pconomir commitrrient. but as individuals with tlw gift of' free will, W(1 are morally obligatnd to tak<' responsibility for all of our actions. Lif'n would be a good one to start with. 
Bob Kerr is a junior, majoring in Hnglish with a concentration in journalism. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those oJUze Observer. 

I I I I '. 
''
'' ' '' 

I I'
' II , ' I' I I 
. -~"il!i
8 -··rtf;
w 
. . ; ,; D 

page I2 OTHE -----------Friday,September II, I998
BSERVER 

Making the trek to East Lansing 


2. Go East on 1-80 to 1-69 (66.5 miles) 
3. 
Go Northeast on 1-69 to 1-96 (76.8 miles) 

4. Go North on 1-96 to 1-496 (3 miles) 

5. 
Go East on 1-496 to Trowbridge Road exit (East Lansing approx.7 miles away) 

6. 
Go straight on Trowbridge -dead ends 


into Harrison Road 
7. 
Turn left on Harrson (MSU campus on right) 

8. 
Turn right on Michigan Avenue -merges with Grand River Ave. to downtown East Lansing 


Total: approx. 155 miles 
THE MATCH
i\vs. 
UP 
IN THE PAST 
Series Record: 
Notre Dame leads 4 I .. I 9"'I 
Games in East Lansing: 
Notre Dame leads I5..II.. I 
Games in South Bend: 
Notre Dame leads 26..8 
Last MSU win: 
Sept. 20, I997 (23"'7 at South Bend) 
Last Notre Dame win: 
Sept. I7, I994 (2I..20 at East Lansing) 
The largest crowd ever to attend a game at Spartan Stadium was 80,401 for the game against Notre Dame in 1990. 


- --~­ 
·---=-~  
I'.  I I I'  ''- 'I'  ''  ''  

--...-­

w 8 'ell D • 
page 13 

For all you 21-year olds without a ticket, here are some of the local hot spots you can go and watch the game 
1. 
Crunchy's 

2. 
The Riviera Cafe 

3. 
The Landmark 

4. 
P.T. O'Malley's 


Famous umnt• 

Earvin "Magic Johnson John Engler, Former NBA All-Star Governor of Michigan 

Robert "Buck" McCurry, Sr. Vice President, Toyota USA 


A NOTE ABOUT TAILGATING 
Last spl'ing tho MSU administration attempted to curb tailgating activities by banning alcoholic beverages at the largest parking area on campus. Student reaction to the ban eapturnd national headlines as protesting students and local police dashed during a "save the tailgate" rally at Munn Field, the site of the ban. Despite the loss of Munn. the Spartan tailgate survives at several locations throughout eampus. Popular spots include a number of parking areas off of Jlarrison Hoad. 

5. 
Rick's American Cafe 

6. 
The Small Planet 7. B-W3's 


8. Harper'sffhe Downtown Club 
1. Crunchy's 
Crunchy's is the small, hometown, big-burger equivalent of C.J.'s -with one big exception -buckets of beer. For around $25.00, five people can enjoy a huge bucket of their favorite lager. Not only does finishing a bucket make one feel a little tipsy, the sense of accomplishment is worth every sip. 
2. The Riviera Cafe ~The Hiv" 
The Riv is a great bar to relax, gawk and enjoy cheap mugs of beer-usually with no cover. It has a very laid back atmosphere. The drawback (or advan­tage), no dancing. 
3. The tandshark 
The Landshark is traditionally full of members of MSU's greek system (a lot of very pretty girls that won't talk to you). They have dancing on occasional nights and usually have a cover. On Friday, they have a great, happy hour with a very nice buffet. 
4. P.T. O'Malley's 
Another bar traditionally filled with MSU "greeks," a little more laid back 
RESTAURANTS IN THE AREA: Beggar's Banquet: 218 Abbott Road (351-4540) Coral Gables: 2838 E. Grand River (33 7 -1311) Damon's: 1601 W. Lake Lansing Road ( (33 7-4680) Evergreen Grill: 327 Abbott Road (337-1200) Harrison Roadhouse: 720 Michigan (337-0200) 

than the Landshark, but a bit smaller. 
R. Bennett's favorite hangout. 
5. Hick's American Cafe 
The traditional big crowd cool band, "Coach's" type basement bar. There is always good entertainment with a vari­ety of clientele-including many MSU athletes. 
6. The Small Planet 
The alternative bar of the bunch. Expect an eclectic clientele with a unique band for entertainment. 
7. 8-W3s 

Same chain as South Bend's B-Ws, only no townies. Perhaps the best draft beer selection in town. Downstairs from the Small Planet. 
R. llarper'sfrhc l>ownlown Club Harper's -A very nice Brewpub with an older, sophisticated crowd. Downtown -The only true dance club 
in town located downstair's from Harpers. 
Pistachio's: 2827 East Grand River (351-1551) 
Pretzel Bell: 1020 Trowbridge Road (351-0300) Red Lohster:3130 E. Saginaw 
(351-0610) Reno's Sports bar: 1310 Abbott Road (337-2333) Tripper Sports Bar:354 Frandor, Lansing (336-071 7) USA Cafe: 4750 S. Hagadorn (332-1958) 
'I
li 
i: 
~~~ 
I 
I 

'• 

'' 

.\ I I 'I
'' '' '' 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 11, 1998 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Dodgers stage comeback, ruin Padres' no-hitter 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Kevin Brown pitched six per­fect innings and then allowed four runs in the seventh as the Los Angeles Dodgers rallied to ruin yet another San Diego no­hit bid, winning 4-3 Thursday. 
Brown (18-6) failed to become the NL's first 19-game winner, but did set San Diego's single­season strikeout record with 238 by fanning 11, matching his career-high. 
The Padres' magic number remained at four for clinching their second NL West title in three seasons. San Diego strand­ed 11 runners and struck out 16 times. 
San Diego has never pitched a no-hitter in its 30-year history. Brown pitched a no-hitter last season while with Florida. 
Chan Ho Park (13-8) won for the eighth time in nine decisions. He struck out 10 and walked a career-high seven, allowed five hits and three runs in seven innings. Jeff Shaw earned his 42nd save. 
Brown was pitching brilliantly until the seventh, when he was victimized by two choppers, a seeing-eye single and Bobby Bonilla's single off the out-of­town scoreboard on the right­field wall in the seventh. Three of the four runs were unearned. 
Eric Young dashed the perfect game bid leading off the seventh when he reached on a throwing error by third baseman George Arias. Arias ran in to field a high one-hopper and his off-balance throw was wide of first base, allowing Young to take sec­ond. The scoreboard opera­tor put up a hit before the official scorer ruled it an error, drawing boos from the crowd. 
Trenidad Hubbard walked and Brown lost the no-hit bid when Eric Karros, who went to high school not far from Qualcomm Stadium, hit a high chopper that Arias had to wait back on, loading the bases. Bonilla's single scored two runs and, with two out, Mark Grudzielank singled off the glove of shortstop Andy Sheets for two more runs. 
Brown threw 32 pitches in the seventh inning. He fin­ished for his seventh com­plete game this season. He allowed three hits walked one. 
On Aug. 16, Brown took a no-hitter into the seventh 

before allowing Jeromy 1..---------------------------------------_;_-.....J 

Eastern Division w L PCT GB Home Away DIV Streak NY Yankees I02 41 .712 53-14 49-27 24-9 Won2 Boston 82 62 .569 20.5 44-26 38-36 16-20 Lost 2 Toronto 78 67 .538 25 46-29 32-38 20-18 Lost 1 Baltimore 73 72 .503 30 37-34 36-38 17-I9 Won2 Tampa Bay 56 88 .389 46.5 27-44 29-44 12-23 Lost 1 Central Division WL PCT GB Home Away DIV Streak Cleveland 80 64 .556 39-32 41-32 23-13 Won 1 Chi White Sox 68 77 .469 12.5 40-36 28-41 17-17 Lost 1 Kansas City 65 79 .451 15 24-44 41-35 18-18 Lost 4 Minnesota 65 80 .448 15.5 31-38 34-42 15-20 Lost 1 Detroit 55 91 .377 26 28-46 27-45 17-23 Won 1 Western Division WL PCT GB Home Away DIV Streak Anaheim 80 65 .552 40-35 40-30 I5-9 Won I Texas 78 67 .538 2 45-31 33-36 I2-I2 Won 3 Seattle 66 78 .458 I3.5 38-36 28-42 8-I6 Won I Oakland 66 79 .455 14 37-38 29-41 13-11 Lost 2 
The Observer/JoeMueller 
Burnitz's singled with two outs, fmishing with his second one-hit­ter. 
On June 27, Sterling Hitchcock held the Anaheim Angels hitless for seven innings before allowing a homer to Phil Nevin on the first pitch of the eighth. 
San Diego took a 3-0 lead in the third on two hits, three walks and a hit batsman. Wally Joyner, making just his third start in 14 games, hit a two-run, bases­loaded single to right with two out. Joyner is hitting .409 with runners in scoring position. 
Greg Vaughn, who walked ahead of Joyner, took third on the single and scored on the back end of a double steal. Joyner broke for second, draw­ing a high throw from Charles Johnson. Vaughn beat Eric Young's return throw home, the Padres' first steal of home since Jerald Clark did it at Los Angeles on Sept. 10, 1992. 
Braves 7, Expos 4 
Javy Lopez hit a three-run homer and Kevin Millwood became the third Atlanta pitcher to win 15 games Thursday night as the Braves beat the Montreal Expos 7-4 to end a three-game losing streak. 
Lopez hit his 33rd home run off Mike Thurman (3-4) in the third inning to give the Braves a 5-1 lead. Atlanta went on to win for only the second time in its last seven games. 

Millwood (15-8) allowed four runs -two earned -and nine hits in 6 2-3 innings. He won for the first time in his last five starts. 
Millwood struck out six and walked one. 
Tom Glavine has won 18 for the Braves and Greg Maddux has won 17. Denny Neagle and John Smoltz each have 14 victo­ries. 
Kerry Ligtenberg pitched the ninth for his 26th save. The Braves split their 12-game sea­son series with the Expos. 
With Atlanta leading 2-1 in the third, Chipper Jones drew a leadoff walk. One out later, Ryan Klesko walked before Lopez homered over the left-field wall. 
Andruw Jones' RBI single in the fifth made it 6-1. Montreal added a run in the bottom half on Terry Jones' run-scoring infield single. 
Atlanta scored an unearned run in the seventh. Keith Lockhart doubled to the right­field corner and advanced to third when the ball got past Vladimir Guerrero for an error. First baseman Brad Fullmer then dropped Chipper Jones' popup, allowing Lockhart to score. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day 
Classifieds classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
SPEND ALL THAT SUMMER CASH ALREADY?? South Dining Hall Food Market has employment opportunities. 
We offer competitive wages, pay increases for returning students, flexible schedules and work incen­lives. 
Stop by South Dining Hall or call 1­6147 for more information. 
NEED A JOB? The Food Service Support Facility is looking for student employees. Flexible hours to fit your schedule 6 AM to midnight. $5.95/hr. Call 1­5417 MWF b/w 2-4 or T!Th b/w 11-1. 
I 
WANTED 
Part-time nanny needed for one-and-a-half year old boy, Sitter needed for 2 year old. Home located 5 minutes from campus. Flexible -about 1 0 hours p/wk. Call Carmen: 234-1744. 
COACHES:ELEMENTARY BOYS+GIRLS SOCCER, VOLLEY­BALL,BASKETBALL responsible,dependable,students or grads to coach 5th-6th grade or 7­8th grade teams.AII seasons open Sept-Oct;Nov-Dec;Jan-Mar for south side elementary school,locat­ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Must be available for prac­!ices Mon·Thurs from 1:30-2:30 or 2:15-3:15.Game schedule varies with games beginning after school at 4:00-6:00 p.m. Paid position. Call 291-4200 to apply. 
SOCCER REFEREES-needed for south side elementary school,locat­ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.$20.00 per game to qualified refs.Call 291-4200 
FOR RENT 
BALL WEEKENOS,NEAR CAM­PUS. 219-277-6832. 
FOR SALE 
AMERICARO PREPAID PHONE CARDS $20-198 min. Call 258-4805. 
1987 Saab 900 5 speed, 1owner, Good Condition. $3000 OBO. Call 288-1380 in evenings. 
1976 Kawasaki KZ400 motorcycle. Completely restored. $900 obo. 321-3020 pager, Joe. 
Stuffed Armchair. $15 
Call 631-5435. 
TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 

trade tix or a room for one home dining hall are so disgusting. The Get well Finn...oops, one game or pay cash. Call Tony at 4-employees restrooms cannot even week too late. 1088. be used because they are so dis 
gusting and smelly. Five miles, twenty water 
breaks...it's all good! Needed:Two BC tickets.Willing to The board of health would love to buy OR trade EITHER two Purdue see them. Watch it Gina; those are or two Stanford tix. There are NO handicapped stalls in leather seats.PH is a tic-tac. Call 617-248-7046 the restrooms either. 
Fr. Malloy are you reading this? 2 PURDUE GA's 4 SALE I don't think you would want to be in I love Morrissey boys who bring me 908-537-4008 the basement of sdh if you ever had CO's and buy me smoothies. 
to go. Need LSU tix Colleen, Finn, Anne Marie­289-2918 Sup? Dinner next week for sure. 
Bill U., you can come too. Always buying and selling N 0 foot-Laurie: Hokey Pete! ball tickets. 289-8048 (holy cow!) Marie-
How are slats? Need 5 Purdue GAs Call x3501 Eric Who throws a shoe? Nexl weekend is going to rock 
Shannon Ryan! 

MICH. ST. TIX NEEDED Hi Mom! Hi Dad! How's the 
CALL 634-3192 jukebox? And the Foster's? It's time to let loose and have a Hope it's chilling in the good tirne! 
Need Michigan St. Tix fridge for me as I write. 
x1943 Thursday nights are fun but And by the way, it is exhausting. __ I need 1 Navy Tix DEFINITELY 2:30a.m. 
•'  flexible hours, good pay, phone 631 5181 TRUMPET, SAX, ELEC.GUITAR  1 ,2,3,4,5 BORM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  TICKETMART Inc BUY -SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets  634-1841 PERSONAL  as I write. Hiltz-Thanks for the ad. We looked so lovely in our  It's all about good thigh muscles on soccer players. We like your picture_  
AND BASS PLAYERS FOR NO  258-1111  photo ... must revisit that  
SHENANIGANS BAND. ONLY @  6 BORM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.  No student tickets please  GO IRISH  night again. Perhaps the  Heather Cocks is a groovy chick.  
1 HR/WK! SPRING TOUR AND  FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272­ BEAT MSU!!!  next Purdue game?  
MANY OTHER FUN EXPERI­ 6551  Different setting, of  Hey Bridget, flex for me.  
ENCES! CALL MEGAN AT 4-2573  FOR SALE  course ....  
Experienced babysitter w/ car need- That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412  SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,&  If I had $1 ,000,000 .....  Hmmm F.P., pick up any bon fire girls lately?  
ed.Various hours. 289-1529  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800­ WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526  S.Padre.Early bird savings until Oct. 31st.America's best prices and packages. Campus sales reps want­ed.Earn free trips+ cash.  _ I'd buy you a green dress. (But not a real green dress,  My last name is like an adverb. C.M. and S.R.--one fabulous sports  
N D Prof seeks reliable baby  418-9487.  1.800.SURFS.UP  that's cruel.)  production team.  
sitter for his 2 and 4 year old  www.studentexpress.com  
children. Flexible Hours, call  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  .... i'd buy you some art.  It's only 4:30a.m., maybe we will  
282 2553 or 631 8015.  fine home within 10 miles of  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  (A Picasso, or a  get mentes, baby!  
ND/SMC 219-291-7153  674-7645  ...ATIENTION LESBIAN, GAY,  Gartunkel.)  
BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  We miss our friends and our lives.  
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK...  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  ND Football Tickets Needed.  STUDENTS'.. Original student  . .... i'd buy you Bill Hart.  
"TAKE 2"  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  group will hold first general meeting  (But not a real Bill Hart,  They're somewhere outside of SOH  
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 SALES and ... EARN $$$$.  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  NO FOOTBALL TIX  TONIGHT. Call info line for details 236-9661.  that's cruel.)  Wait, there is no world outside  - 
Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida,  FLYNN ND/SMC B&B  FOR SALE  i'd buy yer luuuuuuuuv ...  SOH, everything we need is here.  
Padre!Lowest prices! Free  Private home, 10 mins from cam- AM 232-2378  Including the precipitation over the  
Meals, Parties & Drinks.  pus. 3 lovely rooms, one  PM 288-2726  Happy 21st Birthday, Jimmy'  Bill, for the record: I know  sports desk. We could grow a small  
..Limited Offer ... 1800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  bath.Perfect for families or couples traveling together.Available foot-ball,grad. parents' wkends. $75­ 2 PURDUE GA'S 4 SALE. 908-537-4008.  Je t'aime!  you picked Notre Dame. Can I get an Amen Sister  garden and cultivate some mighty fine tomato plants.  
95/nt. Call Alice (219)282-2241.  ATIN:  FR. MALLOY  Shannon? How about an  Personals are like inkblots. You all  
Can you spare some money? The  Alleluia Sister Colleen?  wish you understood.  
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT  Needed: tix to Michigan State. Will  restrooms in the basement of south  

'l 

Friday, Seprember 11, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 


McGwire highlight of season Jordan walks onto 
Alisociated Press Cardinals beat the Cubs :~-2 Dennis Reyes -McGwire was Monday, the game in which asked if he'd take those same 
a different court 
You rain on any parade at your own risk. but here goes, anyway: The tnar of 15 home runs in 6(> at-bats that ended with Mark MeGwire owning the singln-season record might have bem1 the most impressive ever. 
It translatos into a home run for nvnry 4.4 at bats, a ratn roughly stwnn times bnW~r than thn avorag1) major leaguer. It's more impn~ssive still beeause few athiP-tP.s have ever b!H)n asknd to prod uee rnon~ under mon) prnssun~. 
The Elias Sports bureau has crundwd all tho available num­lwr·s baseball has saved since its incnption in tho I SOOs. and even Sl!we llirdt, the bunmu's tough­to-impress senior vice pn)sident, rat1~s it as orw of the "most wild­ly prod uctivn runs" over. 
On clos!)r inspection, though, somf) of tlw factors that con­trihuwd to the tear suggest McGwirP. was playing !lome Hun l>nrby at lnast as much as he was playing compP.titivt~ basn­ball. 
McCwim's run bngan with his last two at-bats -home runs Nos. 4S and 49-on Aug. 19 against the Mots in New York and endnd with No. 62 in his second platn appearance Tunsday against thn Cubs at homn. Tlw Cardinals went 12-9 ovnr thosn 21 gamns, ineluding one in which Mc(;wirn was eject­nd. lin batt1HI .379. totaled 25 hits. drove in 23 runs and added 15 walks. 
That's the upside. 
On the other hand. the Cardinals' chanc!)S of making it into the postseason W!)re fin­islwd in August. Thn only rnalis­tic goal they had after that was Me<;wirn's. 
St. Louis managnr Tony l.a Hussa is as comp1)titiv1~ as thny conw. but nvnn lw got caught up in tlw spirit of things. Aftnr the McGwire hit No. 61, La Russa 
conceded he bent his own rules 
by pitching to Chicago's Sammy 
Sosa in the ninth inning with two 
outs and the trying run .at third, 
instead of walking him. 
"I never thought I'd say it, but 
in that situation, those two guys 
deserve to be bigger than the. 
game," La Bussa said. "I yelped 
the whole second half of the sea­
son about people not pitching to 
McGwire." 
Once the tear was under way, 
that was not a problem. Of the 
six ballclubs McGwire faced, 
'ILOOK AT THE ATIEN­
DANCE FIGURES EVERY MORNING AND THIS MORN­ING, WE WENT PAST 62 MIL­LION.' 
BUD SELIG 

only the Cubs, Mets and Braves were above .500 and contending for anything. St. Louis met the Braves, baseball's best pitching stall', just once, and the Marlins, baseball's sorriest, five times. 
It's one thing to say expansion diluted pitching, but the suspects McGwire collected those last 15 home runs against were a com­bined 14 games under .500 as of Thursday, ranging from Florida rookie Justin Speier to the oldest hurler still working, Atlanta's Dennis Martinez. 
McGwire also struck out 18 times, pretty much in line with his sr.ason averagr.. Hut the elos­er he got to the records, the more freely he started swinging for tho fences. Aftor striking out throe times against Cincinnati on Saturday -the same game in which he No. 60 off starter four at-bats every game. 
"Yeah," he smiled, doing the math quickly, "because that is 162 homers. I'd take 500 strike­outs for 162 homers any day." 
While we're on the subject of tradeoffs, a few words for those guys in the stands who caught a piece of history and then lined up to give the baseballs back: Enjoy the warm feelings while you can. Just about everybody else in the game will have lots of extra money to remember it by. 
McGwire made $9.5 million this season. Experts say his endorsement value may have climbed to $25 million, should he decide to cash in. 
The value of an average base­ball franchise is $140 million. The average ticket costs $13, before you factor in luxury boxes, then add the costs of parking and eating. No wonder the owners cheered so hard. 
And, if any of those fans who caught a home run and forgot to get lifetime passes to the Hall of Fame want to visit the baseballs again, they better not show up empty-handed. The Hall gets $9.50 per adult; the good news, should they bring along rela­tives, is that the young and old get in at reduced rates. 
The night of No. 62, commis­sioner Bud Selig stood on the field at Busch Stadium before the game and said the chase had been speetacular for baseball. 
"I look at the attendance fig­ures every morning and this morning, we went past 62 mil­lion," he said. 
In light of that, someone asked whether a reward for the fans who gave back the balls wasn't in order. 
"We talked about a whole range of things. Let's just hope ..." Selig said, then let his voice trail oil'. 

Need Cash?? Earn $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
~--------------------------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 


Recycle The Observer 
fMJ©[ft)@l®W 
~~~[fuU 
W:©©ulbl®aa 
Watch the game on 
our new 56 inch 
BIG SCREEN! 



Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
A towering figure in an impeccably tailored gray suit rose from the defense table in a crowded downtown courtroom Thursday, and with a sheepish grin told prospective jurors seated 10 feet away, "I'm Michael Jordan."' 
That obvious declaration spelled out the challenge facing attorneys handling a multimil­lion-dollar breach-of-contract lawsuit against the Bulls super­star, alleging he reneged on a deal to star in an obscure 1991 basketball film that flopped without him. 
Finding 12 people with impartial feelings toward the biggest sports hero in Chicago history and arguably the great­est basketball star of all time "will be an interesting chal­lenge," plaintiffs' attorney Dean Dickie said before entering the courtroom. 
Three jurors were selected Thursday, with proceedings to resume Friday. 
The 1993 lawsuit accuses Jordan of backing out of the Chicago-made film, "Heaven is a Playground" after signing a 1988 contract guaranteeing him $350,000 plus 5 percent of the film's profits. 
Jordan was paid $50,000 up front but returned the money and filed a counterclaim alleg­ing that the producers lied when they told him they had obtained financing in the sum­mer of 1989, when filming was supposed to have begun. 
Jordan and his agent, David Falk, who also is named as a defendant. also claim the con­tract was not legally binding. 
The lawsuit seeks between $16 million and $20 million in damages, or roughly what the producers think amounts to lost earnings. 
Jordan was to have portrayed a playground basketball star who loses, then regains, his love of the game. 
The film ultimately was made 

with former Loyola Marymount 
player Bo Kimble. 
"Doesn't have the same ring, 

does it?" Dickie said. 
The production company, 

Heaven Corp., says it lost 
financing when Jordan 
reneged, and the film, failing to 
get national distribution, never 
made a profit. 
Jordan attended jury selec­

tion accompanied by his wife, 
Juanita, and planned to be in 
court throughout the trial 
because "he doesn't run away 
from things," said Jordan's 
attorney, Fred Sperling. 
As the three dozen prospec­tive jurors entered the court­room of Judge Hichard Neville, they barely glanced at the defense table where Jordan was seated, chin resting on his huge hands and neatly mani­cured, clasped fingers. At the judge's request, he and the oth­ers involved in the ease stood and introduced themselves. 
He leaned forward against the wooden defense table and studied the jurors attentively as Neville asked their names, occupations and other pertinent information. 
Jordan laughed and hung his head in his hands when one juror who described himself as a heavy equipment operator was asked what kind of equip­me~t and .~esponded, "heavy eqmpment. 
And he knitted his brows and stared intently as others described medical problP.ms that might disrupt serving on a jury. 
But he used a back elevator and ducked into the judge's chambers to enter the court­room, avoiding media gathernd for the trial and also hungry for an answer to the other question hanging over .Jordan: Is hn coming baek to the Bulls? 
If the answer is no, .Jordan can't use the trial as an excuse; it's expected to last about three weeks, conr.luding well before basketball season. 
I' 
'I 
page 16 
• U,S, OPEN 
Sampras seeks victory at Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Pete Sampras stands on the cusp of history at the U.S. Open. Patrick Rafter, the defending champion, stands in his way. 
In what promises to be the showcase match of a tame tournament that so far has provided few surprises or dra­matic battles, Sampras and Rafter meet in a men's semifi­nal that will have the feel of a final. 
The last 11 days have seemed little more than a setup for Saturday's match, which features two of the best serve-and-volleyers of their generation. It pits the hottest players in men's tennis against each other. 
And it could provide revenge for Sampras -not only against an opponent who defeated him a month ago in Cincinnati, but also against critics who had written him off as an over-the-hill champion. 
"It's time, this is the U.S. Open, this is the big moment of the year for me," Sampras said. "This is what the year boils down to for me." 
The other men's semifinal was being set Thursday. 
No. 10 Carlos Moya made just 15 unforced errors in a 6­4, 6-3, 6-3 win over Magnus Larsson that lasted 90 min­utes. Moya faced only one break point in the match, and never lost his serve. 
Moya, who won this year's French Open and was a final­ist at the Australian Open, will face the winner of Thursday night's quarterfinal between Mark Philippoussis and Thomas Johansson. 
Until this year, Moya was known mostly as a clay-court player. His results at the Australian and U.S. Opens show how he has developed into a top player on all sur­faces. 
"I grew up on clay, so I think I'm always going to have the game on clay," Moya said. "If you ask me right now, I prefer hard. If you ask me two weeks ago, I prefer clay." 
• 
The women's semifinals are set for Friday, with top-seeded Martina Hingis facing No. 3 Jana Novotna and an all­American match between No. 2 Lindsay Davenport and No. 5 Venus Williams. 
When Sampras lost in the second round of the French Open in late May, the whis­pers about the end of his reign atop men's tennis became louder. His stretch as No. 1 briefly had been broken earli­er in the year by Marcelo Rios, and Sampras. appeared vul­nerable for the first time in years. 
But he won a record-tying fifth Wimbledon title in July, and now is within two victo­ries of two more records ­Jimmy Connors' mark of five 
U.S. Open titles and Roy Emerson's record of 12 Grand Slam singles titles. 
Sampras, who will remain No. 1 in the world no matter what happens the rest of this tournament, has not lost in a Grand Slam semifinal since 1996 at Wimbledon. 
Rafter had lost eight straight times to Sampras before beat­ing him in the final of an ATP Tour event in Cincinnati in mid-August, a match that ended with a disputed call. Rafter's serve was called out, but the umpire overruled the call to give Rafter the ace and the match. 
Sampras stood at the base­line for several seconds, mak­ing the victorious Rafter wait at the net, and then refused to shake the umpire's hand. 
Rafter said that win will change his attitude heading into Saturday's semifinal. 
"I won't go on the court feel­ing as intimidated as I had before, " he said. "But Pete is a differ­ent kettle of fish altogether. I had a great win last year. He's done it for the last six years." 
Rafter, whose speed will be pitted against Sampras' power, had to rally from a two-set deficit in the first round of this year's U.S. Open against Hicham Arazi. Since then, he's dropped just one set in four matches. 
o~r:~= 


•ONLY 
AFEW LEFT!! 

•
Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus 

•
Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available 

•
August-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" month's rent 

•Pre-Leasing 
for Fall of '99 


66Tlhe Best V&h1lre iin OH=C&mrr])111J.s Ho1l1l.snng 
Managed By Real Estate Management Corportatio 234-9923 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September II, I998 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Ministers Workshops (required for all who will serve on campus) 
Sunday, September 13th, 3:00pm Tuesday, September 15th, 10:00 pm 
Lectors Workshops Sunday, September 13th, 8:00pm Wednesday, September 16th, 10:00 pm 

0MPU5 MINISTRY 

·-----~ -~-~-----~---~~-~--~-----..,....-----_....,...---~
1 

\ r • I, r 1, l' I' I' ''. 
• r \ T \ 1 . If \ > • I' I • ' 
Friday, September 11, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
will lecture on ----American Democracy---­Monday, September 14, 7 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium Senator Bradley's address is the second of five public policy addresses he will deliver on campus this fall. Live on the web at: http://www.nd.edu/-webcast  

-------,-~­
'I 

~ 
I , 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 11, 1998 
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners ready to leave competition in dust 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The NCAA cross country championships should get ready for a wake-up call. 
The field of teams invited to the championship meet has been increased for 1998 from 22 to 31 teams, making the path to a coveted top 10 finish a little easier. 
The Notre Dame cross coun­try program is poised to seize upon this opportunity. The men's team looks to improve from a 12th place finish in 1997, while the women are looking forward to the extra opportunity to travel to Lawerence, Kan., for the championships in November. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Modern Dance -This class will be tailored for a range of abilli· ties. Semester long course that will meet Wfh 6:15-7:30 p.m. in Activity Room 2 at the RSRC. You must register inadvance at RecSports. The cost is $35; ..... 
Beginner Ballet-No experience n~~~~sary. Class meets Su 2:30 -4 p.m. and Tu 7:30 -8:45 p.m. in Act. llm. 2 at the RSRC. Registration fee is $35 and signups are at RecSports, Class size is limited. Call RecSports for more info. · 
RecSports Golf Championship -Pl(lY 18 holes on.~~~;;;;sept.19 at the NO Golf Course. This is a playyow own baUto)lr;hament­tee times begin at 10 a.m. Register and pay $8 at the Golf Pro Shop. Deadline is Wednesday, Sept. 16. Call RecSports for info. 
New Beginnings Class -A low impact class for individuals who are new to group exercise or are getting back into a fitness rou­tine. Classes meet T/fh, 12:15-12:45, RSRC. Sign uptg~~y. ...·· 
:YS:\ 

Student Trainers-Any freshman Notre Dame student interested in working with the student athletic trainer program can attend a meeting in the athletic training room located in the football stadi­um (Gate E) on Sept. 14 at 4 p.m. 
Bowling Team -Meeting in 127 Nieuwland at 7 p;m., Anyone is invited. All skill levels welcome. Call Anne 4-1536. · · 
Women's Running Club -The women's running club is open to all female runners at ND/SMC regardless of whether you can run 5 miles or for 15 minutes. As a member, you can chooseto attend the daily practices according to ym.u:• schedule, and .Mnefitfrqm. running, new routes, and a team-like atmosphere; C~ll Rene 4• 2710 or Jenny 4-2914. Info. meeting on Wed., Sept. Rat 5:15p.m. Meet at the Fr. Sorin statue on God Quad and if you can, join us for a run afterwards. 
BLESSID UNION OF SOULS 

SATIJRDAY ·SEPTEMBER 12· 8 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM· SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

TICKITS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOX OFFICE IN OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, OPEN 9 AM-5 PM, MONDAY-FRIDAY. CREDIT CARD ORDERS BY PHONE: 
2191284-4626 
ADULTTICKITS ALSO AVAILABLE AT ALL ~~TICKIT CENTERS INCLUDING ORBIT AND L.S. AYRES. TO CHARGE TICKITS BY PHONE, CALL 
2191272-7979 
'""""''''"''"0

To purchase online: http://WWw.tlckelm>>ter.com 
/M8_flf!f!.­
~lllf0T111'o..rl',,, 

"There are not 31 better onships. at the same time. teams in the nation," women's Maxwell, also a senior, The first three spots might head coach Tim Connelly capped last season by becom­be somewhat pre-determined,explained. "We are consis­ing the first Irish runner to but there are eight or nine tently in the top 30 in the cross the finish line in the runners who can compete for nation and the larger field 1997 NCAAs, finishing 50th. the other four spots. Senior gives us an opportunity for a Shay looks to duplicate his Kelly Peterson returns as co­good run at the NCAAs." first-year start when he won captain and finished third on 
Joe Piane returns to direct his first two races of 1997. the team at the Big East the men's team who have five Sophomore Sean McManus championships. top-1 0 finishes in the 1990s. and freshmen Patrick Conway, Junior Patti Rice and sopho­
"Our ultimate goal is a top-Mark Striowski and Luke more Bridget O'Brien will also 10 finish," Piane said. "There Watson will also be counted make their presence felt in the are over 300 programs in the on during the season. competitions they run. country and finishing in the The women's team will be "Hice has really, really top 10 makes you part of the just as deep in talent as the wroked and is at a new level best 3 percent in the nation." men . .Juniors .JoAnna Deeter while O'Brien, [Erin 1 Olsen 
Development during the sea­and Alison Klemmer return and [Megan] Driscoll are way son will determine how much from strong showings in 1997 beyond where they were last of an impact Notre Dame can N Deeter was an All­year," Connelly said. make in November. The American in 1996 and only With the summer training men's team lost four of the top had one finish out of the top over, the Notre Dame cross 
seven runners but Piane is 10 last season, and Klemmer country program looks toward quick to point out, "We are not boasts two second place fin­the Wolf & Kettle Invitational devoid of talent." ishes in the beginning of 1997. this weekend in Elgin, Ill. 
In factn the top three return­Klemmer also highlighted Loyola, Purdue, Butler and ing runners are the No. 2, No. her season by finishing eigth Drake will run against the 3 and No. 4 runners from the in the 1998 NCAA outdoor Irish for the title. 
1997 team: Antonio Arce, championships, earning her Connelly is anxious to test Ryan Maxwell, and Ryan Shay. All-America status. his team. 
That trio will form the As Englehart returns from "We need to get out of train­nucleus of the team, while Tim an injury-filled season to occu­ing and compete to see where Englehardt comes back from a py a key roster spot, junior we are at," he said. "Notre 
severe foot injury that kept Nicole LaSelle will be counted Dame also always runs to win him out of the 1997 campaign. on to return to the form where and we have a realistic shot at Arce, a senior and three­she finished third and fourth it." 
time monogram winner, was in the only cross-country Piane ft.as the same optimism the No. 2 runner for most of meets she was able to run. for the men's team. last season. He finished sec­This will be the first season "Every meet our goal is to ond in the first two meets and when coach Connelly can run win. I will be disappointed if lOth in the district champi-Klemmer, Deeter and LaSelle we don't." 
A 
SPECIAL INVITATION 

Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 


r---, r---,
I $59 I I $37 I I Color, Cut & I Manicure I style Iand Pedicure
L ___ .J 
L---.J 

•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
Stylist: This offer NOT valid with Cindy. 

'"NEW CLIENTS ONLY• Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. 
4clrnustbe presented to receptionist You'II be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we 
~~~:r:ese~ices ~~;performed
will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
· · (¢ef1ain rest!i;ctions apply) 
We hope to see you soon. 

Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires 9/30/98. 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N. Ironwood Drive •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel. 219-289-5080 
The Specials Monday 
Fajita Dinner for 2 for $10 at Chili's 
Monday-Thursday 

$5 All you can bowl 9-midnight 
includes shoe rental and soft drink Every Day 
Cinemark Movis 10 All movies $3.75 Garfield's 20o/ooff entire bill, one discount per 10 Olive Garden Never ending pasta bowl for $6.95 
Friday, September 11 

Free carnations at Titanic courtesy of SUB 
Sponsored by HPC 
'' 

Friday, Seprember I I, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
ND and Pitt will battle to remain undefeated 
By ANTHONY BIANCO games that has given the team But for its part, Notre Dame Sports Write! a 3-0-1 record. The Panthers' couldn't be any more forceful attack has been led by sopho­right now. 
On Alumni Field Sunday, it more Heagan Bender, whose The team kicked off the sea­will lu• a batth~ ol' tlw undd'eat­recent move to the front line son with three wins in as many Pd-and tlw Irish hope to quiet helpnd him linish off three goals games, including a road win at thP roar ol' t lwir Big l~ast rival, while assisting on another. Big East opponent Syracuse. the l'itt.shurgh l'antlwrs. Senior midlielder Drew Kopp The quick start has catapulted 
This will be tlw lirst Big l~ast also tops Pitt's attack, assisting the team to a 15th place rank­nwnling l'or Pittsburgh this sea­on three goals while netting one ing in the National Soccer son aft.1•r thrnP non-conference of his own. Coaches of America Association 
poll. Just as important for the team is the steady attack that the front runners have thrust on opponents. 
In their three games, the Irish have gone to the back of the net 10 times. 
Freshman Shane Walton has led the barrage with a total of four goals, including the game­winner against Northwestern and the tying goal at Syraeuse. 
Walton's accomplishments earned him Big East rookie of the week honors for the first week this season. 
"It really hasn't been hard," said Walton. "!Forwards! Scott Wells and Ryan Cox have helped me get adjusted to the new system." 
Cox, leading the team in assists with four, has been right up front in the Irish attack thus far and should continue his dominance. 
Tuesday's slim margin of vic­tory against the Wildcats should pose no concern for a team that has won big in its first two con­tests against Valparaiso and Syracuse, by scores of 6-1 and 3-1, respectively. 
Despite early losses to wide midlielder Andrew Aris and for­ward Scott Wells, head coach Mike Berticelli stands confident in his squad. 
"You don't get concerned in one game after you've scored nine goals in two," he said. "It 

Midfielder Matt McNew, a junior, will try to help deliver the Panthers doesn't mean we're not the their first loss of the season. same team we were in the last game." 
Make A Career Out of Spending Other People's Money. 
Please join us for an 
information session: 
Wednesday, September 16 Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 6:00 -8:00 pm 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Career & Placement 
MEDIA ... It is what takes ideas from the conceptual · and production stage, to our living rooms, malls, bars, and the broad outdoors. At Starcom, we make MEDIA our business. Because what is an idea if it hasn't anyplace to go? 
,.. 
""* * 
* * 
STARCOM MEDIA SERVICES 


The Observer/John Daily 

After a win against Big East rival Syracuse last Saturday, the Irish hope to keep their streak alive. 
1998 NOTRE D\A.ME ' 
MEN'S SOCCERSCHEDULE SEPTEMBER 
13 PITTS.BURGH* 18 at Rutge,rs• 20 /at Villa~ova* 26 .--ST..JOHN'S* 
2.9 :: at Western Michigan
" ·· Q,CJOBER .. 
... F~V::·:.: ~' \ ..... : 
... . .at Geotg~town* 
·s· .. IUPUI . 

··­
I ~.
-. . 
~~----"---~---' . ' . -~ ­
' I • • o I 'I 
' • t 'f • I I I l 1 • j
' 1 I I ': I I I I • I 
1

, ' ' ~ I ( I I I • I ' t I I 
I I 
Page 20 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 11, 1998 




Followed by Community Lunch at the Joyce Center 


. 
~~~.~--~~--~~--~----;-~~~--~--------~--------~~--~~--~~--------~----------'---------.~ 
The Observer • SPORTS 
nitely the leaders on defense. With Boxx, Grubb, and Beene
W-Soccer 

straight down the middle, if they don't give anything up, then I
continued from page 24 
think we have a chance to be 
successful," he said. 
The Irish 'D' thus far, has shutout three opponents, includ­ing Ohio State in an exhibition game. It allowed just 10 shots in all three regular season games and have completely dominated their end of the field. 
Yet North Carolina and Duke bring formidable offenses up against the Irish. Duke is 2-1 so far this season, with its lone loss coming against fourth-ranked Connecticut. 
"I think Duke is a lot more tal­ented than last year," said Petrucelli. 
"They have some quality play­ers and had a very good recruit­ing class." 
The Irish will be eyeing junior Emily Feeney, who has scored three goals, and senior Kristy Whelehel. who has scored twice. 

The Irish have won four of their last five against Duke. 
But top-ranked North Carolina is the real deal. It comes into the 
I' 
page 21 

game 2-0, with wins over Colorado and Colorado State. 
It has the most dominating player in the country in senior forward Cindy Parlow, who won National player of thn year hon­ors, the I-Iermann Trophy and the Missouri Athletic Club Sports Foundation player of the year award. 
Last season, she tallied 44 points on 13 goals and 18 assists. In two games this sea­son, Parlow already has three goals. 
"Parlow is probably the best forward in the country," said Petrucelli. 
"She's given us and everyone else fits over the years." 
Notre Dame will do its best to shut down Parlow and the rest of the Carolina offense. 
"The thing about North Carolina is the quality of their athletes," said 
Petrucelli. "They're fast, physi­cal, and talented players. Carolina is the total package." 
UNC holds a 4-2-2 advantage over Notm Dame, but that would just make a victory that much sweeter. 

Makinen, however, which is a big blow to the front line. 
"My biggest concern is that Anne [Makinen] is not going to be here," said Petrucelli. "She's is in Moscow trying to help Finland qualify for the World Cup." 
Also, the Irish could lose Jenny Streiffer and her goal-scoring ability. 
Petrucelli is optimistic though. 
"We're hoping Jenny [Streiffer] can play," said Petrucelli. "She pulled her groin in Sunday's game, so that's going to be a game-time deci­sion." 
Although the Notre Dame oll'ense will put the goals on the board, it is the Irish defense that will be the key if they hope to be victorious. 
"We hope Shannon Boxx and the whole defense can step up," said Petrucelli. 
"Grubb and Beene are defi­



•

om1no s 271-0300 
fMemorize this number--Its half Your ilradesJ 
Student Specials 
Larse 1ToPPins 14u 
$6.45 
Extra Larse 1TOPPinS 16•• 
$7.45 
only valid @ above location • across from Linebacker 

GO IRISH •• CRUSH THE SPARTANS 

Thursday Friday & Saturday $2 admission 1030PM 0700PM & 1 030PM Free carnations on Friday 

ACOUSTICAFE 
Every Thursday in the LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM 


tHIS weeKeno 

www.nd.edu/-sub 


-..... 
Golf 

continued from page 24 
since she came to school hnre and is hitting the ball a lot further." 
In addition to finding out about her award recently. the beginning of this season has given Cooper another reason to celebrate. 
She shot the first hole-in-one of her career during the Women's Golf Campus Championship held on August 
31. Her ace came on the 16th hole at Blackthorn Golf Club, a 117-yard. par 3. 
"It was my first (hole-in­one). I was so excited to get it in a competition when it actu­ally counted. A '1' on the scorecard looks cool and improved my score quite a bit," Cooper said. 
Smith believes that Cooper is a tremendous asset and a real team player. 
"She's a very positive influ­ence on the team," he said. 
"Moving on to college golf is really tough due to the high level of 
competition. But she came through well, and we're look­ing for leadership from her,"
The Observer/John Daily 

The women's volleyball team is looking for a win this weekend as it takes on Wisconsin and Indiana. The 
he added. 

team will rely on blocker Lindsay Treadwell and setter Denise Boylan to earn victories. 
Fellow golfer Mary Klein 
agrees, "She's awesome. She mances from the supporting cast by Katie Weismiller, their top keeps us all in a good mood. of Jameyson, outside hitters players are middle blocker Things can get really competi­
V-Ball 
Christi Girton and Mandi Powell, Melissa Rooney and Jen tive and very serious when and opposite hitter Emily Magelssen. 
we're in tournaments, but she
continued from page 24 
Schiebout. "Notre Dame has some players can always make us smile." 
strong offensive team and a "I think we just need to go out who have really stepped up from good blocking team. Their set­and have confidence," said a year ago," said Weismiller. ter, Colleen Neels, played a Boylan. "Since Wisconsin "They have a lot of offensive strong match against us last knocked us out of the tourna­power at times. Their setter year. Their middle blocker, Kelly ment last season, we need to [Boylan] does a great job of dis­Kennedy, is 6'4". We need a lit­focus on playing for one another, tributing the ball." tle bit better defense and especially for Lindsay and the Notre Dame should have an stronger hitting out of our out­seniors; playing together, and inside track on the playing style side hitters." playing good defense." and strategies of the Hoosiers. 
Notre Dame will again look to Although not as formidable an The Irish head into this week­senior middle blocker Lindsay opponent as Wisconsin, the Irish end ranked 16th nationally. Treadwell and sophomore setter can't afford to overlook the They have a record of 2-1, after Denise Boylan to set the pace. In Indiana Hoosiers, who return falling to No. 12 Colorado at order to beat the Badgers, they five starters from a team which home in the Shamrock will also need strong perfor-began last season 15-0. Coached Invitational Sunday. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219} 232-8444 
*No passes 


z::'...,_~..-z= ... 0""41 
Saturday, September 19 'II Notre Dame Golf Course 
Tee Times Begining at 1 0:00 
18 HOLES PLAY YOUR OWN BALL MEN'S &WOMEN'S DIVISIONS FEE IS $8.00 REGISTER &PAY FEE AT GOLF PRO SHOP SIGN-UPS BEGIN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7 DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16 SPACE IS LIMITED FOR MORE INFO. CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-6100 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-. talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  ~eADERSHIP  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Room 217 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6265 
'0. 




DILBERT 

E 
8
THANKS TO MY 
ci
.. 
®
CONSULTING "JOB, 
E
..
I'M W£:11-.LTHIE.R 
"..
THAN YOU. 
~ 
E 
0 
0 
£ ~ 

50 Ebenezer's exclamation 
,;+ii!i\... LSU Ticket Raffle --SMC College Republicans
53 Not busy 
-are raffling off two tickets to the LSU vs. ND con·
54 TV, mov1es, 
comics, etc. test. which is November 21 at 1:30 p.m. Tickets 
57 Shakespearean are $1 apiece and six for $5. See any SMC College king 
Republican for tickets. 

58 Fires 59 Parched 60 See 19-Across 
8"--my brother's shelters strays
25 March of--43 Migratory insect 
keeper?" so Duelist of 1804
26 Novelist 45 Guitar player's
9 Moore of 51 Song from
Wharton Implements 

Wanted: Reporters, 
"Ghost" Placido 27 Submarine
10 Actor Baldwin 46 Pinball no-no 52 Actress Lamarr
system

11 "Two Years 47 Brainstorm 55 BumpkinBefore the 
28 "Collar" 
48 Panache 56 Pnce add-on 

photographers and
Mast" author 29 Cacophony 
14 Look down on 
30 Transform 15 Like a volatile 
31 City on the Aire Answers to any three clues in th1s puzzle 
economy 
are available by touch-tone phone·33 Dogwalker's 

editors.111n pieces line 1-900·420-5656 (75¢ per m1nute). 
22---ipsa Annual subscriptions are available for the 
36 Arm muscle
loquitur best of Sunday crosswords from the last 23 Cabal's head 40 Vtrtuous 50 years: (800) 762·1665 
Join The Observer 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1998 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brian Dt• Palma, Harry Connick Jr., Lola Falana, Earl Holliman 
Happy Birlhday: GPt ready for one heck of a good year. You have been wallowing in other people's limrlq',ht for too long now, and the time has finally come for you to spread your wings and do your own thing. You can get the interest you've been looking for if you start to approach those individuals who are in a position to help you achieve your dreams. Your numbers: 6, 17, 22, 35, 41,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Diffi­t'Ulties with colleagues will develop if you have been making jokes at the expense of someone you work with. Be careful when you travel or operate equipment 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be creative in your approach to work. Your unique ideas will be well-received. Take time to go out with good friends. You need some entertainment that will lift your spirits. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may find it difficult to deal with your boss today. Don't be too eager to let him or her know how you feel about a situation. Someone may be trying to undermine you. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): New partnerships are ready to develop through the company you've been keeping. You can use your creative ideas in order to gain approval at large group functions. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll have the opportunity to talk to people who will help you achieve your objectives.
j 

li 
Be aggressive and colorful and you will get your way You may find your 
ANO I'M CUTER, 
OBVIOUSLY. THE 
! Birthday Baby: A determined soul, you give vour all in everything you do.ONLY IHING LEI=T 
You have deep beliefs and strong ties to tradition. You will lead others down
"'. 

pathways that will lead to positive and prosperous returns. You arc besl described as carine. Nactical and straightforward . 
15 PER.50NALITY. 
., 
~ 
! 
i 
~ 

Q 

Appli~ations Due --Children and Poverty Seminar applications are due Thursday, September 10. by 10 p.m. at the CSC. The seminar runs in Boston or New York over fall break. Contact Erika-at 4 ~ 1498 for more information. 
.'  
South  
Lunch· Italian Sausage Chicken Acapulco BBQ Beef Pizza  
Dinner­Manicotti Egg Foo Yung London Broil  

mate somewhat pt•rturlwd. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): You are likely to find a rart' ,mtique today if you frt'quent a pawn shop or tv.·o Don't hesitate to tak,• shorl trips Valuable information can be yours it YllU listt'n to thosl' with cxpcricnn· 00000 
UBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 221: You can beautify your 'urroundings by reno­vating or redecorating. However, you may find that your plans will cost you a little mol'(' than rou had want· cd or expected. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You'll encounter some problems with juggling your time. Family mcmbt>rs may want you at home when your heart is telling you that you want to spend time with someone you re· cently met. 000 
SAGIITARIUS INov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be in the mood to discuss your intentions and ideas with others today. Your high enthusiasm will b<• sure tH inspire your colleagues and employers. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Creative pursuits should pay ofL Your ability to organize and get everyone together will enhance your popularity and bring interest from potential mates 00000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make changes to your domestic scene that will benefit all that reside there. fry to get everyone involved and it will help bring you closer together 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): New partnerships could prove to be lucra­tive. Take a look at the possibility of starting a small, part-time business with friends or relatives who you respect 0000 
I 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, lN 46556  
0  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
0  Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ _ Address ________________________________________ City---------State ____ Zip________ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Event for Cinderella 5 Father 9 Father 12Jai-­13 Washington's successor 15 Composer Bartok 
16 Second man to set foot on the moon 
10 Soothsayer's a1d 
19 With 60-Across, author of "The Joy Luck Club" 
20 Whitish 21 Beethoven's 
Third 23 Marathon 24 Consider 
25 Covet 28 Ad for the 
lovelorn 32 "--lh1nk so!" 33 Currency in 
Capri 34 Kind of model 35 Chinese 
dynasty 36 Belief 37 Quick 1unch 38 And ott-aers · 
Abbr 39 Ruin's partner 40 Pondered 41 L1ke a nag 43 Also-rans 44 Eyebrow 
position 45 Mantime stop 46 Color aIa the 
Grateful Dead 49 Filmdom's Vittorio De -­
61 Observe Yom Kippur, in a way 
62 Like Superman's vision 
DOWN 
1Aii--of children's fiction 
2 Reuniongoer. for short 3 Slothful 4 Actress Taylor 
5 Regal home 6 Confuse 7 Shave 

Nortfl::;iili 
Lunch w Buffalo Wings ChickenFajita Shrimp Criolia 
Dinner-Beef Fajita Cheese Calzone Fried Perch 

friday, September II, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 


• Michael Jordan will 
• The men's soccer 
• Michigan and 
step onto a new court 

team takes on unde­
Syracuse's football 
as he faces a lawsuit 

feated Pittsburgh this 
teams look to 
over a movie contract 

weekend. 
recover form open­

PORTS 
dispute. 
ing losses. 

p.l5 p.l9 
p.l6 
O THE 

Friday, September 11, 1998 -----------------BSERVER page 24 

• WoMEN's SoccER 
Irish head to Chapel Hill for rival rematch 
By BRIAN KESSLER they knocked off the Heels in the are playing very good teams, but Assistant Sports Editor r semifinals of the NCAAs and we just treat them as normal later took the national title. games." 
If there is one sports team that Furthermore, the one slight In their first three games, the defines the word 'dynasty,' it blemish in Carolina's 1997 sea­Irish posted wins over Michigan has to be North Carolina's son can be attributed to Notre State and conference opponents women's soccer team. Dame, who played the Tar Heels West Virginia and Pittsburgh, 
UNC has been a powerhouse to a 2-2 tie on Alumni Field. outscoring them 20-1. 
--
in women's soccer for nearly But the No. 1 Tar Heels won't North Carolina and Duke, two decades. It has posted a be second-ranked Notre Dame's however, are in a completely staggering 417-16-11 record in only match this weekend. Tenth­different league than Notre its 19 seasons as a varsity sport, ranked Duke stands ready to Dame's first three 1998 oppo­a winning percentage of 96 per­face off against the nation's best nents. cent. two teams in the Nike/Carolina "We've come out flat in a few It has won 14 of 16 NCAA Classic at Fetzer Field, N.C. of our games so far, but I think Tournaments and last season "We're definitely excited to be that's because we haven't been compiled a 27-0-1 record en playing these teams," said head challenged,'' said Petrucelli. route to the title. coach Chris Petrucelli. "But in "This weekend, we are going to But in recent seasons, the the big picture, these games be challenged, but I think we'll Irish posed the most deadly don't mean much. They aren't respond." threat to the UNC dynasty -going to win a National The Irish will respond with and this weekend, Notre Dame Championship for us, but they senior Monica Gerardo (2 goals travels to Chapel Hill to renew do give us a chance to see where against MSU), Shannon Boxx (2 the heated rivalry. we're at and what we need to goals against Pittsburgh), and Notre Dame ended Carolina's work on." Jenny Heft (hat trick against NCAA record 92-game winning The Irish face Duke today, West Virginia and 2 goals streak when they played the before taking on their rivals against Pittsburgh). Heels to a 0-0 tie in 1994. Sunday afternoon. They will be without the ser­The Irish were directly "We don't think of these as the vices of sophomore Anne responsible for dethroning the biggest games of the season,'' champs back in 1995, when said Petrucelli. "We know we see W-SOCCER I page 21 
The Observer/John Daily 
Junior forward Jenny Heft will attempt to ignite the Irish offense this weekend against the Blue Devils . 
• WOMEN's VOLLEYBAll 
• WOMEN'S GOLF
Team looks for weekend wins 
Cooper: driving 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
force behind Irish 
After losing to the Wisconsin Badgers twice in 1997, including a season-ending defeat in the NCAA Tournament, the Fighting 
By SHANNON GRADY the Women's team, agrees. Irish volleyball team hopes to Sporrs Writer "She takes her studies really strike back tonight. seriously, and she works 
The Irish take on the Badgers Beth Cooper has been play­hard. That's how a student at Madison. Wise., in the first ing golf for a long, long time. athlete is supposed to be," he match of the Wisconsin "I probably started playing said. 
Inntowner Invitational at 7 p.m. when I was around four or .Criteria for the award They then have to regroup five,'' she said. ''I've always includes a cumulative GPA of before playing Indiana tomor­been around golf because my at least 3.40, academic stand­row at 5 p.m. dad is a good player, (but) I ing of at least a sophomore, 
"I think the challenges are didn't start playing competi­and play in at least 66 per­very similar to last weekend,'' tively until high school." cent of a team's competitive said Notre Dame head coach Cooper's combination of tal­rounds. Cooper possesses a 
Debbie Brown. "We're going in ent for the game and love of 3.60 in the College of there and playing a top-1 0 golf have gotten her where Business Administration, and .... team." she is today, namely part of she played in eight tourna­
The Badgers face a motivated Notre Dame's Women's ments during the 1997-98 Notre Dame team. The Irish Varsity Golf team and a recip­season. seek to avenge last season's ient of one of the most presti­Her average score was losses and come back from a gious awards a collegiate 83.48 strokes over 21 rounds, 
downfall against Colorado. and she contributed to the
golfer can receive. "Last year, we ended our sea­Cooper, a junior, was select­team score in 11 of her 17 son against Wisconsin,'' said ed by the Golf Coaches team rounds played.sophomore middle blocker Jo Association of America Smith expects nothing but 
Jameyson, "so the word to moti­(GCAA) to its annual All­greatness from Cooper in her vate us all summer was The Observer/John Daily America Scholar team for remaining two years.'Wisconsin' just the word. We all 1997-98. Only 116 Division I "She had a couple of 75's 
really want to beat them. It's The Irish look to beat Wisconsin this weekend after being defeated by women's golfers were chosen last year, and she helped us kind of a revenge thing." the Badgers twice in 1997. 
for this honor. break our team record twice,'' 
Wisconsin is coming ofl' a sea­coached by John Cook, finished "We know we are going to "I was happy to be honored Ross said. "Her strength is son in which they finished 30-3 last year ranked fifth after losing have to execute at a high level,'' with it and kind of relieved. her short game, but she's overall, and tied for first in the to Florida in the NCAA said Brown. "Wisconsin is a very I've worked hard to earn a been improving her drive, Big Ten Conference with a 19-1 Tournament. They lead the all­good GPA,'' Cooper said. 
conference record. The Badgers, time series against the Irish 3-1. see V-BALL I page 22 Ross Smith, head coach of see GOLF I page 22 
Soccerat Michigan State Cross Country Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 

vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler at Washington U. 
E±l

SPORTS 
Tomorrow, II a.m. Saturday, I p.m. vs Duke
ATA 
Cross Country 

.f/( .... at Chapel Hill, N.C. at Wisconsin at Aquinas 
Tonight, 7 p.m. Tonight, 7 p.m. 

':~ ~ Tonight, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 
SH NSIDER 

•ss CHAMPIONSHIP IRISH EXCHANGE ROSTERS IRISH INSIGHT THE NATION PAGEl PAGE3 PAGES PAGE6 PAGE7 
page2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, September II, I998 
ROAD TO THE 
NOTRE DAME VS. MICHIGAN STATE 
'88 CHAMPIONSHIP 
Solid defense paces Irish past Spartans, 20-3 
Stonebreaker's fourth­quarter interception secures Notre Dame win 
By ALLISON KRILLA Associate Sports Editor 
Following a two-point upset win over Miehigan in its season opener, Notre Dame could have basked in the glory of victory. The team could have rested on its laurels and allowed its fire to smol­der. 
But it didn't. 
The Fighting Irish came out with plenty of fight, led by an overpowering defense and their trademark running game, handing Michigan State a 20-3 loss in front of 77.4 7 2 fans at Spartan Stadium. 
A four-point defeat at the hands of Rutgers in week one gave coach George Perles plenty of fuel to fire up the troops, a rallying cry before they bat­tled the Irish. 
With a 1987 Big Ten title and their first Rose Bowl appearance since 1966, the Spartans had high expectations in 1988. and the Irish were obstacles blocking their path. 
On gameday, Sept. 17, Michigan State came out strong. drawing first blood with a John Langeloh field goal from 39 yards. But the 3-0 lead did not last long, as Reggie llo, the previous week's hero, nailed two field goals in the sec­ond quarter from 31 and 22 yards. 
Despite taking a 6-3 advantage into the locker room. Lou Holtz's team had tallied only 100 yards of total offense, compared to 178 for the Spartans. More disturbing than that was the 102 passing yards racked up by senior quarterback Robert McAllister in the first half. 
But on their first possession of the third quarter, the Irish drove 71 yards on the ground in six plays. Tony Rice's keeper on first-and-goal from the eight gave the Irish a 13-3 lead and some breathing room. 
Michigan State continued to press the Irish defense to the limit, but the Spartans failed to score another point. 
In the fourth quarter, linebacker Mike Stonebreaker put the nail in the Spartan's coffin. McAllister attempted to engineer a drive from the Michigan State nine-yard line, with five consecu­tive passing attempts. 
Instead, the final attempt, intended for tight end Duane Young, found the open arms of Stonebreaker, who ran the ball 39 yards for a touchdown and a 20-3 Notre Dame lead. 
Stonebreaker's interception was merely a continuation of his defensive domination. The junior from River Ridge, La. earned defensive player-of­the-week honors from the Sporting News for his team-high 16 tackles against Michigan. 
Rice finished the gam~ two-of-nine for 50 yards with another 53 yards rushing. Mark Green led the team with 125 yards rushing on 21 carries, taking over for Braxton Brooks and Anthony Johnson who were lost to injury. 
Strong defense paced by Stonebreaker's 10 tackles and two interceptions. coupled with a rushing game that produced 195 yards in the second half, propelled the Irish to their second win of the season and Holtz's first victory in Spartan Stadium. 
The hunger for victory was alive and kicking. 


1•...-''.' n·"·· ;... o·.~,.;i". .· -'~~ .-­::.--. ~ ·~ s0 ....­.· ····"?:·: .. 2 1-0300 fMemorize this number--Its half Your sradesJ Student Specials Extra LargeLarse 1ToPPing 14~~ 1 TOPPing 16~~ $7.45$6.45 only valid @ above location • across from Linebacker GO IRISH •• CRUSH THE SPARTANS  

~----~~----~----·-.------~--------------------~---------,--~---------------------­
Friday, September I I, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM THE STATE NEWS
IRISH EXCHANGE THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER FOR MSU 
By JOE REXRODE 
Sporrs Editor. /1" Stmr Nrws 
Nt~VI'I' havn I sel'n surh an oveneaction. 
Two WPI'ks ago, MSU was stockml with taiPnt and looking good. llmtd coac:h Nick Saban was right on t'ourst• in resurrnrting tht• program. Tlw Spartans wern a bona litII' Big TPn dark horsl'. 
Now. al't.Pr lwing amhuslwd by a WAC lt•am and humiliatt~d by a middlP-ol'-thn­l'at·-1 0 squad. MSU is suddnnly tlw worst thing siru·p t.lw J<JI<J Black Sox. 
Thn talnnt was way ovnrratnd. Saban is an idiot-lw eouldn't Inad this t11am to a l'op Warrwr tith Tlw Spartans arn dns­tirwd to battlf' Illinois for thll eonfornnee rnllar. 
<;iVP 1111' a brt•ak. As tlw indomitabiP Chw~k D. oncn said, "Don't htolitwe thn hype." 
SomP say tlw Spartans playnd poorly in tludr lirst two ganws. I must disagrne. They Wf'rn nothing short or awful. Downright disgnu:nful. But does this IIIPan tlw tnam is inrapable of playing wnll'~ From what my nwdia guide tolls 1111', many of tht• sanw players who bum­hind all ovm· tlw linld against Oregon last wnnk wow on tho team last year. They wt•m tho sanw guys who sull'ocatml qual­ity toams like l'mm State and a partieu­larly li1nblf' Fighting Irish squad. Given a shot ol' adnmalinn and a solid slap to the 
hdnwt.  tlwy might yet show they  can  
play.  
But  that  won't  matter,  say  the  

"nxperts." Did you sm1 Notrn Dame roll ovor Michigan? Why, the Irish might just lw titln eontnndnrs! Thny're unstoppable! 
After lambasting tho suddenly-hapless Wolwrirws in South Bend, Ind., everyone is hailing Bob Davin and his mighty team. In his lirst season. Davie dmw compar­isons to (;prry Faust. Now, he's Knute Hoekrw, Ara l'ars11ghian and Frank Leahy all rollnd into Olll!-with a youthful COllll­ltliHLIH:n to boot. 
Formnr eoadt-turnmi-TV pinhead Lou Ilultz said Notrn Dame will be playing for the national crown at the Fiesta Bowl. 
Once again, people are taking 60 min­utes of football -in which we all should know anything can happen -and mak­illg rash ddPrminations. 
lmprnssive as they looked last week, the Irish arP not a drastieally difl'erent team from last year's 7-6 mediocre bunch. nxcPpt that they don't have Ron Powlus around to take the blame for evorything. 
My point is, this game is not a mis­match. In fad, if MSU had pulled oil' two wins and U-M had pounded the South Bendnrs as Pxpndtld, the pundits would bo prndicting a Spartan blowout. 
Notrn Dame is boatable and then some. .larious .Jackson looked good last week, but hn has yet to play in front of a (hope­fully) hostilP crowd. 
rr not forU-M squandering several first­half opportunitit1s, the game probably wouldn't haw bm~n close enough for a swnnping Irish comeback. 
As it is, Notre Dame riding a wave of confidence into East Lansing, ready to take on a team beset by injuries, wrecked egos and -according to some a team whoso coach has lost control. 
For all you fans who are calling for Saban's hide, step back and take a deep breath. It's a long season. Saban will cor·­reet the problems (and there are plenty) that need to bH corrected. He has, can and will motivatH his players. 
This excessive criticism reminds me of the up-and-down career of George Perles. The first few years after MSU's 1988 Rose Bowl victory, everyone wanted a piece of thn guy (and there was plenty to go around). lie was widely hailed as a great coaeh, if not an all-out defensive genius. NFL teams like the Jets and 
Packers were practically begging him to take thn reigns. 
By the time good ol' George left the seenn, he was widely regarded a bu!Toon. Tho program had spun far out of his con­trol and hn couldn't get a job coaching kickers at Okemos High if he wanted to. 
So what happened? It's simple. Ewryune jumped the gun, a lot like they're doing now, and Perles bought into it. lie was a good coach. Period. lie deserved neither the heapings of praise nor the widespread scorn that he later received. 

So take it easy on Saban. Despite the uninspired performances his players have given of late, he's doing everything he ean. And the Spartans will turn it around. 
The offensive line, though lacking severely in depth, will mesh. The defense, even without the services of Amp Campbell, will improve. 
And the Spartans will pick up some vic­tories. Maybe not enough to earn a bowl bid. They've dug themselves into quite a hole, but a win tonight puts them right back in the hunt. If you have a hard time taking a positive outlook, just think of Campbell. a man whosn hopes of a pro­fessional career were daslwd in a split second. Do you think he's sitting around complaining about everything? No, hn'll bt~ watching tonight, rooting for his team to turn things around. 

And it can, becausn MSU is not a tr~rri­ble team. And Notre Damn is not among the top handful of teams in tlw country. Saban is not the Antichrist. DaviB is not Touchdown Jesus. 
So, let's try to keep our judgments ratio­nal if possible. Jf MSU pulls oil' thn groat­est upset known to man undr1r the lights. please hold off the Hose Bowl talk for a week or two. 

RECORD: 1-0 
RECORD: 0-2 
A.P. NATIONAL RANKING: 10rH A.l'. NATIONAL RANKING: UNRANKED
THE EDGE 
Quarterbacks -NO Linebackers.~. NO .... 
With the loss of two-year starter Todcf§bhultz, Bili Burke 
Outside linebacker Courtney Ledyard is the sole highlight in assumed the reigns of the Spartan offensive system. After a group that has underachieved against Colorado State and a sub-par performance vs. Colorado State and being Oregon. In the latter game, the Spartans allowed a total of benched in the second half against Oregon, he hasn't 590 yards to the Ducks, split almost evenly between ground shown the control and confidence that Jackson had against and air. While the Irish linebackers were unable to completely Michigan. Neither did Burke's replacement against the shutdown the Wolverines' offense, MSU's stumbling aerial Ducks, freshman Ryan VanDyke, who threw an interception attack should provide a different outcome from last week. on his first pass attempt and later left the game with a sprained left shoulder. 
Running Backs -Even ...· ?. , 
Secondary ... Even 
n 
Entering his junior year, Sed rick Irvin is MSlJ's The Spartans returned four starters with major experience in seventh all-time leading rusher and looking to add to his what could be the best secondary unit in the Big Ten. ·• total. Fullbacks Garret Gould and Leroy McFadden offer But the Irish secondary is just as flush with talent and 
multiple options for the Spartan's ground attack. The experience, with names like Harper, Goode, Sanders 
match-up between them and the trio of Denson, and Guilbeaux standing out. A tough call, but if Campbell is 1 Goodspeed and Spencer should provide one of the unable to recover from a dislocated vertebrae sustained last ..;;;; most entertaining match-ups of the game. week in time for the game, the balance shifts towards the Irish. 
r~ 
• 
Receivers -NO Special·Teams .. NO 
:~-= ~~~~~~)~f!\!ii!®k@l~:~J:::;:::=:;:: .:::·.·.:::·~~,;;::· 

The Spartans' passing game has lacked the ability to make 
While Irvin doubles as a dangerous return man, the punting big plays last season, and their 0-2 start hinted at the lack of and kicking games leave much to be desired. Junior Paul a consistent threat from the air. The Irish receiving corps has Edinger took over both duties last year, and looks just as returned all their key players from last year, and while shaky in the roles this year as he was before. Against the Denson and Jackson stole the show last week, the group Wolverines last week, junior Jim Sanson had a perfect day of Brown, Johnson and Co. can provide their own fireworks. apart from a missed PAT, while Hunter Smith was the same 
model of consistency that has made him a regular on the 
• Irish roster. 

Offensive Line -NO 
Three starters were lost from last year's MSU squad, including all-Americans Flozell Adams and Scott Shaw. That weakness 
was glaring in last week's rout at the hands of Oregon, where they allowed six sacks for a loss of 50 yards, and rushed for only 144 yards on 37 carriers. Against the Wolverines last 
(~, 
( -./:~\ 
week, Rosenthal and Co. disproved the stigma that an Irish front five is only dominant on paper.
\ ·:~"~.· 
~~ 


Defensive Line -MSU 

All four starters return from a group that held the Irish to just 61 yards rushing in last season's meeting -their lowest rushing total since 1985. While the foursome of Jones, Legree, Williams and Bryant overpowered Michigan last week, question marks still remain. 
Overall .. NO mw . 

While the Irish do have a tendency to have a lackluster 
performance after a solid win, the revenge factor for last 
season is too huge to ignore. As a five-game losing streak 
last year showed, the Spartans are known to be a streaky 
team, and with a trip to Ann Arbor just around the corner, it 
looks like the month of September could be a rough one for 
fans of the green and white. 
--------------------------------~--~--------------~------~--~--~.-------~~........~--------~_.-------~------­
page4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 11, 1998 

•
ID 


•
front 
8 JUS 
I 
Senior captain Mike Rosenthal provides the glue of the Irish offensive line 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Spons Editor 
On chilly fall Friday evenings in north­
ern Indiana, he dominated the football 
fields. 
He superstarred for a Penn High School 
team that was just as dominate as his 
imposing six-foot-seven frame. 
Magazines honored him with awards 
normally reserved for quarterbacks who 
throw for 300 yards and four touchdowns 
a game or running backs who blew by 
opposing teams and made fans gasp and 
say "that kid will play on the next level." 
But Mike Rosenthal got noticed in the 
not-so-glamorous position of offensive 
lineman. 
Named to about every magazines' high 
school all-American squad and honored 
with awards like the co-offensive MVP of 
the Big Ten region by Bluechip Illustrated 
and the Gatorade Circle of Champions 
player of the year in Indiana in 1994 the 
Granger native became one of the most 
coveted recruits in the nation. 
Notre Dame was lucky enough to have 
him right in their backyard but his signa­
ture on the letter of intent was not a 
guarantee. 
"Actually I was a huge Michigan fan, I sive line coach Dave Borbely. Borbely fol­grew up all through high school as a big lowed Jim Colletto and Joe Moore toMichigan fan," he said. ''I'd come to a few become the third offensive line coach atNO games and I came to NO my senior Notre Dame since Rosenthal steppedyear and really liked the place. I visited onto campus in 1995. 
and met all the guys here and decided Even though the coaching staff hasthat this would be the best place for me" gone through these adjustments, theyNow Rosenthal is a senior, a captain, have not had any affect on Rosenthal asand one of the most important members he simply made the best of the situation. 
of the lOth-ranked team in the nation "I didn't really see it as having tothat is fresh off a 16-point victory over adjust," Rosenthal said. "I just tried tohis favorite team when he was in high learn as much as I could and take asschool. 
much can from improve

"It's a great honor, especially because as I them to 
myself."

its something that your teammates vote Rosenthal also takes cues from hison," Rosenthal said about being named a teammates and competitors as tries tocaptain. 
develop into a complete player. 

"He's one of the three most important "Watching what the other guys arepeople on the team, he's a captain," doing helps you in the whole scheme offreshman offensive lineman Ryan Scarola he "You try as
said. "He keeps the offensive line togeth­things," said. to learn 
much as you can from each coach thater, along with the older guys. He's the you have." 

leader out there, he's gotta be because It's that kind of attitude that has gotten he's the captain and that takes a lot of the attention of the coaching staff. In his responsibility." 
sophomore season, then Notre DameIt didn't take long for Rosenthal to head coach said that Mike Rosenthal wasbegin to get noticed once he put on the one of the "smartest players" he evergolden helmet. He jumped into the action coached.

his freshman season as he played in all One does not usually think to look atbut two of Notre Dame's games. 
the offensive line to find the best football Rosenthal made his first start in the hos­minds as it seems that their purpose is totile environment of Columbus, Ohio when serve as people movers. But Davie alsohe took the place of an injured Mike sees something in Rosenthal besides hisDoughty against the Buckeyes. 

300 pounds of strength and agility. 

After his freshman campaign, "Mike Rosenthal is very impressiveRosenthal earned the starting right physically, but the type of person he isguard position and has been a mainstay really separates him," Davie said. "He's ain the offensive line unit ever since. 
tremendous person." 

"I look up to him from the standpoint Proof of Rosenthal's character has been that he's been here four years and played an the way in which he has been able toall four years," Scarola said. "As block out the ugliness of the Joe Mooreoffensive linemen that's very seldom." 
lawsuit. Moore was Rosenthal's offensive Going into spring football after last sea­line coach his frrst two years and in theson, head coach Bob Davie hired ofTen­

guide, forms." Rosenthal has With fresh bodies joining the offensive coach Moore listed line this fall, Rosenthal and Co. have as one of the people begun to train the next Mike Rosenthals that has helped him or Jerry Wisnes. the most since he's "All the offensive linemen help each been at Notre other," Scarola said. "Ifyou do something Dame. Rosenthal wrong Mike will let you know about it had to testify in the and if you do something right he'll let you lawsuit, but he has know about it. But it's really everybody not allowed that to helping everybody." affect the task at Rosenthal has began his final campaign hand. in the Blue and Gold, but he doesn't see it 
"It really wasn't a as any different from the other seasons distraction for me when he was battling more experienced because I testified players for a starting position. before the sum­"The approach is still the same you try mer," Rosenthal to go out every day in practice and said. "I was here in improve as a player," Hosenthal said. summer school and "Because now until the day till your done didn't really have playing football you're going to have time to read the something to improve on." papers or watch "You try to just go out and improve TV, so it really was­every day," he continued. "You try to n't a distraction at attack every game the same way where 
all." you want to go out and play as hard as 
Rosenthal, as well as the rest of the you can." team, used the summer vacation more Rosenthal serves as a spokesmen of the wisely. team as they refuse to be satisfied with 
"He's in position to have the best sea­the great start and they realize what's son he's had here at Notre Dame," Davie ahead of them. said. "Getting him to be just a dominant "The Michigan game doesn't have any­player is something I know he wants to thing to do with this week," Rosenthal do and it's something we're talking said. "We celebrated it this weekend and about." it's kind of over now. Once you get suc­
Along with the rest of his teammates, cess you want more of it." Rosenthal bought into new strength and And Mike Rosenthal certainly knows a conditioning coordinator Mickey lot about success. Marotti's aggressive program that even involved the Irish pushing a 15-passenger van in the middle of 
TH~~ Ml"K~ R:QSENTHAL FlLE
the South Bend summer. "Mickey Marotti's program did a lot for me this off-season," 

Senior " Offensive Tackle 
Rosenthal said. "It helped me reshape my body, I lost a lot of fat." As far as the van exercise is con­

Heigh~~
cerned. 
J 
"It was in the dead of summer and we're pushing this van around," Rosenthal explains. "He's yelling and screaming at us but that's what fourth quarters are made of." 
While Rosenthal's pre-season honors have distinguished him as the leader of the offensive line, Rosenthal and his classmates Tim Ridder, Luke Petitgout and Jerry Wisne, along with junior John Merandi, have molded into a unit that appears to be on the brink of greatness after dominating the Michigan Wolverines last week. 
"All through the summer, we lifted together, we ran together, we ate together, everyday and we were kind of inseparable," Rosenthal said. "When you do that stuff a bond 


Friday, September 11, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
IN THE 
SPOTLIGHT 

2ND 
SEASON AT NOTRE DAME 
Bob Davie 
CAREER RKORD 8-6 Ar NOTRE DAME 8-6 AGAINST MICIIIGAN STATE 0-1 

ROSTER 
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I  I )t•kt.• Coopt•r  FS  6-3  221  )R  
2  IJL•nny (;ullht•<lux  SS  6-2  215  SR  
Arn.11 l!~ttle  QB  6-1  195  I'R  
Kory Minor  01.11  6-1  245  SR  
A'j.1ni Sandt•r.t  1:s  5-11  191  SR  
0  Mcllcnlm fohn~on  SE  6-5  215  SR  
7  ]dfious Jackson  QB  6-0  220  SR  
8  Erk Ch.tppell  QB  6-4  225  IR  
H  Anthnny Ur.mllim  Ol.B  5-11  203  IR  
9  R,tki Nelson  Fl.  5-11  17H  IR  
Ill  Ilt•vt•ron f l.lrpt•r  CB  5-11  187  JR  
II  joy Johnson  SE  6-0  IH7  IR  
12  Tony H•her  Rll  &-1  202  I'R  
13 14  jimmy Friday David Civt·n~  ILU WR  &-2 6-0  236 214  SR FR  
1i  C'liftord !efft•r>t>n  DB  5-9  165  FR  
lo  l~tk Kustok  QJJ  6-1  213  so  
16  John Shingler  TE  6-1  250  SR  
17  Jhmh•r Smith  P  6-2  21H  SR  
IH  !ot•y Cl'lherall  SE  5-7  172  so  
19  JimS..ln,!,on  K  5-9  189  JR  
211  C.ulos Pit•rrL•-Anhllnt' 1.8  6-2  240  FR  
21  )ilvin llunh:r  WR  5-11  172  FR  
22  I·•Y Vickt•r.  TB  h-0  215  JR  
l.l  Autrv Uensun  TU  5-10  202  SR  
24  Ty l;;>odc•  CU  5-11  192  SR  
2i  Tony Drivt•r  FS  6-2  214  so  
26  Ltoc l.afayettt•  SS  5-10  19H  j[{  
27  Uobbld low.ud  II.B  5-10  232  SR  
28  Don.1ld Dykes  DB  5-10  1H6  FR  
2S  MikeCmdy  FS  5-11  2tnl  )R  
29  )uHtin Smith  Cll  6-2  1llll  so  
)II  Rocky Uoim,m  llll  &-3  222  FR  
Jl  Eric llimlm  CB  5-11  179  SR  
32  Tt•rr.lnct• Howard  RB  6-1  181  RB  
12  Ju•tin Mt•ko  SS  5-11  209  SR  
J1  J.lmit• Spl'11Cl'r  FB  6-1  245  SR  
33  Phil Sicuso  CB  !i-11  18H  SR  
:w  Rnnnit• Nick-;  IJ.B  6-1  234  JR  
35  David Millt•r  K-l'  5-11  177  FR  
35  )ot>eint Vukelich  Fll  6-0  224  so  
10  Tom Lupit•nski  FB  6-2  2411  FR  
1h  11m Lynch  CB  5-9  177  SR  
17  Ron lsral'l  CB  6-0  19H  so  
37  Kt•vin Rict•  SS  6-0  212  SR  
38  llm:k Williams  Cl!  .5-10  1H9  so  
39  Anthony Denm.m  OLB  6-1  231  so  
39  Chris Lt>ck  55  5-10  195  )R  
40  )ilSun Murray  FB  6-1  254  so  
40  Bn•nd.m Farrt>IJ  1LB  5-10  220  )R  
41  joe Feri'Pr  OLB  &-2  231  JR  
42  Antwt,inc Wellingtlm  NG  h-0  261  )R  
43  II ugh Holmes  ILB  6-1  212  so  
44  Gr,ml Irons  OLB  6-5  256  so  
4.i  Jot•y GoodspL.-ed  FB  6-0  241  JR  
4o  Kt•vln Dansby  OLB  6-1  228  so  
41>  lk•njamin Robinson  TE  6-2  241  SR  
47  Mike McNair  F8  h-0  221  FR  
48  johnathan Hebert  SE  5-11  202  )R  
49  jot• Thuma~  ILB  6-2  227  SR  
50  David Payne  OG  6-1  287  SR  
51  Tyreo Harrison  LB  6-2  238  FR  
53  l...1mont Bry.mt  DE  6-3  258  SR  
54  Lukt.•l\•titgout  OT  6-6  300  SR  
55  Jim JonL•s  OC.  6-3  295  JR  
58  Brendan O'Connor  OG  6-2  292  JR  
62  Casey Robin  OT  6-6  300  so  
6.1  Mik<• Tribe  ILB  5-10  220  )R  
1>4  john Merandi  C  6-3  292  )R  
60  JW jord~n  C  6-0  289  so  
67  john Wagner  OT  6-7  300  SR  
bH  Matt Bn·nnan  OT  6-7  295  JR  
6Y  Mike Gandy  OG  6-4  296  )R  
711  11m Riddt•r  OG  6-7  298  SR  
71  Jerry Wisne  OG  &-7  298  SR  
72 73  Ryan Scarola )l'ffRoehl  OL OL  6-4 6-4  310 287  FR FR  
74  RobMowl  C  6-5  295  )R  
76  John Teosdale  OT  6-5  295  so  
77  Br.1d Williams  DE  6-5  2H6  )R  
78  )ord,ln Bl,1ck  OL  6-5  310  FR  
7Y  Mikt• Rost•nthal  OT  6-7  300  SR  
Ml  Lt.•wis Dawson  FL  6-0  185  )R  
M3  r~trkk Reynolds  WR  5-11  179  FR  
H4  Cerald Morgan  TE  6-3  263  FR  
M5  Antwun Jones  NG  6-3  280  SR  
85  Mark Rule  WR  6-2  218  SR  
H6  D,m O'Lt•.try  TE  6-5  256  JR  
R7  Jabari Holloway  TE  6-3  254  so  
88 HY  Bobby Brown John Day-Owens  Fl. TE  6-3 6-3  194 228  SR FR  
Yll  L.1nn· l.t•gret.•  NG  6-1  292  )R  
91  Noclh VanHonk-Druckt•rDE  6-2  245  )R  
92  Ad~m libblt•  K  5-11  183  FR  
Y3  llJScott  DE  6-4  282  )R  
94  Andy Wisne  NG  6-3  285  so  
95  Ryan Robert•  LB  6-1  235  FR  
40  St.•an Mahcm  DL  6-3  262  ['[{  
97  Kurt Vollers  DT  6-7  280  so  
98  Anthony Weaver  DL  6-3  249  FR  
Y8  Eric Glass  DT  6-4  235  JR  
9'1  )a"'m Ching  DE  6-3  280  )R  

The Observer/BrandonCandura Brad Williams (77) and Lamont Bryant (53) will look to slow the Spartan attack. 
After surrendering under 200 yards on the ground to Michigan last week­end, the defensive line by committee must contain MSU's Sedrick Irvin. The junior running back is the Spartan's seventh all-time leading rusher already. 
Freshman Tony Weaver will again start for Lamont Bryant, but all the backups will see significant minutes. 
Plus, MSU's offensive line has still not 
recovered Adams.  from  the  loss  of  Flozell  
TAILBACK 23·Denson 31-Levy  

QUARTERBACK 7·Jackson 
~=~~: 
··." · • ·· ·,. '... ,..,. ·'· · 1\)mrr 
711-Ridder 
69-Gandy 
RIGHT TACKLE 79-Rosenthal 76-Teasdale 
TIGHT END 87·Holloway86-0'Leary 
FLANKER 88-Brown 18·Getheral 
The Observer/John Daily The Spartans defense will have their hands full with Autry Denson and the Irish. 
Michigan State's defensive line will have to contend with Autry Denson, who spearheaded the Irish running attack against Michigan. The 280-yard total the Irish gained on the ground was the second highest total given up by the Wolverines in their last 126 games. 
All four starters return from a line that held the Irish to 61 yards last sea­son however, their lowest total since 1985. 
And with two early-season losses already, the Spartan defense is hungry. 


4TH 
SEASON AT MICHIGAN STATE 
Nick Saban 
CAREER RECORD 28-20 AT MICHIGAN STATF 19-18 
j\STN~:;;;;~~ 

No.  Name  Pos.  lit.  Wt.  YR  
I  Paul Edinger  K  5-10  188  IR  
2  Ht•rb Haygood  WR  5-11  177  FR  
2  David Schader  K  5-10  171>  FR  
Amp Camph<'ll  CB  6~)  1H6  SR  
Andy Kenm·dy  K  6-0  193  )R  
Plaxico Burress  WR  6-6  219  so  
4  Max Axler  K  5-10  182  JR  
,r:;  Lorenzo {;ut>s!>  S  6-1  18.5  FR  
Sorie Kanu  S  5-11  192  SR  
Phinnt.•y Masoner  K  '-1!1  15Y  FR  
Lavaile Rich.1rdson  WR  6-2  190  so  
Ralph Truitt  QB  6-2  226  SR  
9  Aric Morris  S  'i-11  209  )R  
9  Brandon Hughes  WR  5-9  171  so  
10  Arron Aglt>r  QB  6-4  210  )R  
11  Matt Bitonti  WR  5-11  1H6  JR  
12  Craig ).melt  I'  6-3  21()  FR  
13  Ryan Von Dyke  QB  6-6  215  FR  
15  Renaldo Hill  CB  5-11  173  so  
15  Todd Zayti  WR  6-1  172  JR  
16  Bill Burke  QB  6-5  205  JR  
17  Sam Eyde  QB  6-4  210  )R  
18  Aaron Cochran  WR  5-11  170  FR  
19  DeM•rio Suggs  TB  5-11  1H6  so  
20  Alex Aut-tun  S  o-2  205  i'R  
20  Derick Dl'llt•r  QA  1>-3  203  IR  
21  Brodt•rick Nl'ison  WR  6-0  175  F!l  
22  Shawn Foster  TB  5-11  19(1  PR  
2.1  Little John Flowers  TB  6-0  200  FR  
24  Richard Brown  CA  5-11  193  so  
25  Mike• Austin  LB  6-3  237  )R  
2'i  Chris Strayer  WR  5-11  1%  l'R  
26  )imel Coft;r  5  6-2  195  FR  
27  Duron Bryan  CB  6-0  195  FR  
28  Leroy McFadden  FB  6-3  2-15  IR  
29  Lemar Marshall  S  6-2  211  SR  
30  Matt Kropf  LA  6-2  22H  FR  
31  Shawn Wright  LB  6-2  227  JR  
31  Marcus Worsley  TB  5-10  190  FR  
32  Richard Nl•wsome  CO  5-11  1H9  so  
33  Sed rick Irvin  Til  6-0  223  JR  
34  Billy Grt't'nt•  TB  6-1  218  JR  
35  T.). Turner  l.B  6-2  2411  so  
36  Lloyd Clemons  Til  5-11  2114  SR  
36  Aniema Ubom  CB  5-l!l  177  so  
37  Cedric Henry  CB  5-10  175  FR  
38  Sean Banks  LB  6-2  215  JR  
39  Donvetis Franklin  CB  6-1)  !YO  JR  
411  Wes Kammer  LB  6-2  221  so  
41  john Marynowski  S  6-ll  195  so  
42  joiner Bernadel  FB  6-11  243  SR  
43  Scott Ernsberger  S  6-3  224  SR  
44  Antonio Gates  LB  6-4  240  FR  
45  Caret Gould  FB  6-2  2-18  SR  
47  jud Ayers  Fll  6-2  2.12  SR  
4ll  Jonathon Walker  Til  5-9  218  JR  
49  Dawan Moss  FB  5-11  230  FR  
49  Joe Manzardo  LB  5-11  217  FR  
50  josh Thornhill  LB  6-3  24(!  FR  
51  Brian Grant  C  6-3  257  so  
52  Mike N<al  C  6-1  241>  JR'  
53  Courtney L<>dyard  LB  6-3  242  SR  
54  T.J. Henning  l.B  6-1  215  SR  
55  joel Mesman  LB  6-2  243  FR  
56  Dwayne Hawkins  Lll  6-3  248  )R  
57  Paul Harker  OL  6-3  305  FR  
58  Matt Bran"'m  OG  6-2  260  FR  
59  Raheem Miller  DE  6-2  24ll  )R  
60  Mike Schutz  OG  6-7  296  so  
61  Brian Stephan  OG  6-6  2H6  so  
62  Robert Newkirk  DT  6-3  295  JR  
63  M.>rty Wensel  C  6-2  270  FR  
64  Casey jensen  OL  6-7  289  )R  
65  Ulish Booker  DE  6-ft  255  FR  
66  Desmond Thomas  DT  6-3  282  SR  
67  Damon Patton  DT  6-1  251  SR  
68  Willie Comerford  OG  6-3  295  so  
70  Dave Sucur.1  OT  6-3  289  so  
71  Shaun Mason  OT  6-'i  285  so  
72  Matt Bonito  OT  6-7  285  so  
74  Shawn Murphy  OG  6-4  285  FR  
75  Brian Symon  OT  6-6  310  FR  
76  G. Robinson-RandaiiOT  6-5  32H  JR  
77  josh Smith  C  o-4  271  FR  
79  Jason Strayhorn  C  6-2  286  SR  
80  )ace Sayl<•r  DE  6-5  27ll  so  
81  Pierre Wilson  J.B  6-3  235  FR  
82  Ashlev Beals  WR  6~)  185  FR  
83  Chris ·Baker  TE  6-3  259  FR  
H4  Brad Rainko  TE  6-3  235  )R  
85  Ivory McCoy  TE  6-3  223  so  
86  Gari Scott  WR  6-1  192  JR  
87  Demont Smith  WR  5-10  170  so  
88  Kyle Ranet•  TE  6-6  244  JR  
89  Hubert Thompson  DE  6-5  270  S()  
91  Robaire Smith  DE  6-5  21>4  )R  
92  Pete Covens  DT  6-4  290  so  
94  Artie Steinmetz  DT  6-4  261  so  
95  josh Shaw  DT  6-3  285  FR  
96  Chad Bisseger  LB  5-9  191  IR  
97  Nick Myers  DE  6-2  265  FR  
98  julian Peterson  DE  6-4  235  JR  
99  D. Underwood  DE  &-7  272  SR  

.._..

I 
I~. ~p~ag~e_6 ~T~h~e_O~b~s~e~~e~r_•~I~RJ~S~fl~I~N~S~ID E_R~_______________________F_r_id~~~·-S~ep~t_em_b_e_r_I_I,_I_9_9_8 
I • IRISH INSIGHT 
-------~~~-~--------------·~ -~-­
Game one just a tiny slice of a champion's cake 
Michigan win only as important as the rest of the Irish schedule 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sports Writer 
One win doesn't make the season. 
Of course, Notre Dame's 36-20 upset over 5th-ranked Michigan last weekend couldn't have done more for the pro­gram that has been so injured by accu­sations of wrongdoing. 
NCAA investigations. Kim Dunbar. Joe Moore. As far as the Irish were con­cerned, these could just as well have been scandals that occurred at USC, Purdue. or even Michigan State instead of under the Golden Dome. Notre Dame's play last Saturday made it clear where the focus belongs-on a football team committed to winning. This focus will make the season. From that, the wins will follow. 
The Irish couldn't be happier to trav­el to Spartan Stadium to face the team that beat them last year 23-7. The first Irish loss in the renovated Notre Dame Stadium put the Irish at 1-2 on the young season. The hardships would only continue for the young football program, as they continued to lose a string of four-straight games. 
This time around. Bob Davie's team is all too experienced. In addition to enduring the summer scandals, the Irish have won their biggest game since a No. 2 squad beat the No. 1 Florida State Seminoles in 1993. Though only one week later, the hopes for a nation­al championship were spoiled as a weaker Boston College edged out the Irish, 41-39. 
Just as much as last week's win was a testimony to the team's focus during the testing preseason, it also has the possibility of allowing them to lower their guard as they take on the Spartans. "I told them after the game that this is a big win, but it will only be big at this time next week if he handle it right and we go play well at Michigan State," said Davie after last week's vic­tory. 
Both teams will come into the nation­ally-televised contest fighting for a win that will give either team a great deal of early-season momentum. Michigan State. after losing its first two contests, desperately needs to defeat the Irish to regain their footing. State cannot and will not be taken lightly. After all, despite two earlier defeats in their sea­son, they did begin with a top-25 rank­ing. 
On the other hand, Notre Dame's momentum could fall faster than Michigan's rankings if the team is downed by the now-winless Spartans. Michigan State would like nothing more than to capitalize on their home-field advantage to upset a top-ranked team. 
Seem too hard to believe? 
Well, a very similar event occurred not too long ago in South Bend. Anyone remember the game? 
The biggest key for the Irish will be to keep Michigan State guessing all day. Option football is clearly back at Notre Dame. Irish signalcaller Jarious Jackson kept Michigan's defense guess­

,-----------------------, ing the whole time. One IRISH INSIDER 
of the greatest offensive 
plays last week was the

EDITOR: KATHLEEN: LOPEZ 
first Irish touchdown in

ASSOCIATE EDITORS: JOEY CAVATO, ALLISON KRILLA 
the third quarter. On this

ASSISTANT EDITORS: ANTHONY BIANCO, BILL HART 
particular play, Jackson

DESIGN: MARK DEBOY 
began to scramble, but

GRAPHICS: PETE CILELLA 
immediately hit an open

COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAILY 
D a n O'Leary for the touch­down. For the split second w h e n Jackson let the ball fly. Michigan's linebackers just froze­they simply couldn't tell whether to rush in or cover the pass. 
If Jackson and the offense can remain composed and patient, State will be able to swap simi­lar stories with the defeated Wolverines. 
On the other hand, fans should expect a m o r e improved team to 
weekend. ' The upset gives the Irish the chance to work on improving certain aspects of their game. The Michigan State quar­terback controversy should give the Irish the chance to build confidence in the defensive back position, which allowed 300 yards passing against Michigan. On the other side of the ball, Jackson should add to the option with a 


heavier passing game to continue to keep the opposition guessing. It's only one game, and one game doesn't make the season. · 
But if the Irish head into this game at East Lansing with the same focus that they had against Michigan, than this one game will foretell the team's suc­cess for the rest of the season. 


~ {!tt'~t':(lf,f 
/Kick qff tJ)f ND Football 

Jt \ ~ Pcif» Predicts 
~ * NOTREm21ME 37 ~ 
!Jckt Hzza/ 


We wish Cotch Davie, His S and the Team success in [K)Q@Q their 1 paign! £3U~ ~Cfll!)J!)~ ~tltl ~ lJ lJ tltl Dine-In a at ND Store ~Zlll ~tl~7}~
(1827 Bend Ave.) and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 2-Liter size now available!
r---:--,
I lrt I 
I -~ I I ' I 

I 00 I 
Visa/Mastercard Accepted 



= 
Friday, September 11, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 7 
THE IRISH INSIDER LOOKS AT
EYE ON 
THIS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
THE NATION 
FOOTBALL GAMES 

Michigan, 'Cuse looking to rebound 
Wolverine defense faces tough test with McNabb at the helm 
By TIM CASEY 
Both tl~ams look to robound from heart­breaking losses last wm~k and will try to get hack in tlw thick of the championship hunt, this Saturday in Ann Arbor. Defending national rhampion Michigan returns home after having tlwir 12 ganw winning streak snappPd in a shocking upset by upstart Notrn Danm. while Syracuse lost to No. 8 TPnnessml on a last-second field goal by the VoluntePr's Jpff II all. 
Tlw mighty Michigan def~mse was hum­hiPd against tlw Irish. who ruslwd for 280 yards and arnunulatnd 376 yards in total oll"nnsn in tlw :{h-20 victory. Notm Damn was abh~ to run at will against last year's numbnr-one ratPd dnfonse. who returns nino of I I starters. On o!Tense. quarterback Tom Brady had imprnssivfl stats in his dnhut. throwing li11· 2f>7 yards, as did run­ning bat·k ClarPIIC(l Williams, who rushed for I 14 yards, hut they were unable to scorn on six possessions inside tho :{0-yard linn. 
Tho Wolvnrirws must lw eonenrnnd about Syracuse's multi-dimensional quarterback Donovan McNabb, who passed for :~00 yards against Tennnssen and poss0sses the tlmmt to run as well as most running backs. Bnsidns McNabb. the Orangemen hav(~ two spm~dstm·s in receiver Quinton Spotwood and tailback Kyln Mdntosh. who will look to strotch the dnfm1sn. 
Tlw I00,000 plus fans in Ann Arbor will lw a big advantage for the Wolverirws as they look to rogroup and lind th(l chemistry of a ynar ago. 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Michigan's defensive line must find a way to get Donovan McNabb before he burns them deep. 

483 yards last wenk against lowly New Mexico State. 
UCLA looks to extend its win­ning streak to nleven when it

1 . Ohio St. (39) 1-0 1,708 
opnns thn season

2. Florida St. (22) 1-0 1,667 
on Saturday in

3. Florida (4) 1-0 1,571 
the Rose Bowl.

4. Nebraska (2) 2-0 1,546 
The Bruins arc

5. Kansas St. (2) 1-0 1,418 
rank(1d sixth in

6. UCLA (1) 0-0 1,394 7. LSU 0-0 1,279 
the latest 
Associated Press

8. Tennessee 1-0 1,274 
poll and arn one

9. Penn St. 1-0 1 '131 
of the favoritns,

1 0. Notre Dame 1-0 1 '104 
along with

11 . Washington 1-0 1,051 
Arizona State

12. Virginia 1-0 963 
13. Michigan 0-1 818 
and Washington. 

14. Arizona St 0-1 737 
to win the Pae­

15. Georgia 1-0 716 
10. McNown has 

1 6. Colorado 1-0 619 
proven himself to 

17. Wisconsin 1-0 534 
be one of the top­

18. TexasA&M 0-1 487 
live quarterbacks 

19. Syracuse 0-1 470 
in thn nation. evi­

20. West Virginia 0-1 445 
denced by load­

21. Arizona 1-0 361 
ing the NCAA in 

22. usc 1-0 287 
passing efficiency

23. Texas 1-0 250 
in 1997 and lin­

24. Oregon 1-0 141 
ishing eighth in 

25. Missouri 1-0 123 
last year's

Others Recieving Votes 
Ileisman race.

North Carolinia 1 02, Mississippi St 90, Colorado St 83, 
Question marks

Kentucky 81, Oklahoma St 43, Mississippi 34, Air Force 29, Alabama 26, Miami Fla 24, Virginia Tech 19, Utah 13, Boston 
remain on a College 12. Georgia Tech 11. So Mississippi 9, Auburn 6, Central defense which Washington St 5, Arkansas 4, Iowa 4, South Carolina 3, returns only four BYU 1 Toledo 1 starters from a 
out for revenge of last year's 66-3 drubbing by UCLA and secondly, two of the top Ileisman trophy candidates in Texas run­ning back Ricky Williams and UClA's quar­terback Cade MeNown will be featured in this fourth 1wer matchup between the teams. 
Last year's game was the worst-ever defeat for a Texas team, and they hope to learn from that tough experience. It cer­tainly helps when tlwy featurfl the talents of the best running baek in college football. Ricky Williams, who was the consensus pre-season choice for the Heisman. Williams. last year's NCAA rushing champi­on rushed for 215 yards and six touch­downs in the Longhorns victory last weflk against New Mexico State and has a good chance to brnak Tony Dorsett's career rush­ing rncord. The Longhorns racked up 580 yards in total ofTense last wenk. but UCLA will certainly prnvnnt a bigger challenge for year ago, and at running back when~ trun freshman DeShaun Foster will see plenty of action. 
Williams and company. Texas's  defense  
. •  must  improve  
from  letting  up  


Both offenses are capable of scoring a lot of points, especially against inexpnrienccd defenses. The McNown!Williams matchup is intriguing but both would take a victory over personal accolades. 
This West Coast matchup, the 27th meet­ing between the schools. features two t0ams that had tough losses last week to start ofT their seasons. Arizona State had their vision of a Pac-1 0 title tainted, as they lost to Washington. when the Huskins' Brock Huard found Heggie Davis opnn with 28 seconds left for the 42-38 victory, while BYU lost to Alabama by a 38-31 margin. 
Th0 explosive ASU offensn lived up to its billing against Washington. The d(~fense was another story, however. The Sun Devils retumed only five starters from last year's Pac-1 0 leader in fewest points allowed and it showed, with Iluard passing for a career high 318 yards. JH Hedmond. the talented all-purpose back was impressive in defeat with 108 yards rushing and 68 yards receiving, while sophomore quarterback Hyan Kealy threw for 302 yards and thron touchdowns. 
In coach LaVell Edward's 26-year earner, BYU has always relied !wavily on their passing attack with sueh NFL play(~rs as Jim McMahon. Stflve Young and Ty D1~tmer. This year is no exception, with experienend junior quarterback Kevin Feterik at the helm. Feterik was solid last week. amassing 182 yards passing. with onp, rushing and throwing touchdown apiecfl. Hunning back Honney Jenkins, a fleet-footed sophomore who gained 125 all-purpose yards despite being sidelined in the second half with lng cramps. also brings experiflnce to the ofTense. Brigham Young must work on their run d0fense from a week ago. when Alabama's Shaun Alexander ran all over them for 115 yards and five touchdowns. Linebacker Rob Morris shined in defeat, with 13 tackles to go along with two sacks. 
Arizona State had high expectations com­ing into this season and they hope they can put last week's loss behind them. BYU will pose a tough challenge. especially with home field advantage and a proven offense. 
IRISH EXPERTS 

Kathleen Lopez Sport!! Editor 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN UCLA ARIZONA STATE 

Joey Cavato A!'l!:lot:iah: Sport~ Editor 
NOTRE DAME MICIIIGAN LICLA ARIZONA STATE 
/'. 

Allison Krilla Assol·iatc Sports Ediwr 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN UCLA ARIZONA STATE 

Anthony Bianco SportsWriter 
NOTRE DAME MICIIIGAN UCLA ARIZONA STATE 

Assistam Sports Ediwr 
NOTRE DAME MICIIIGAN UCLA ARIZONA STATE 

... 

Assistant Sport!~ Editor 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN UCLA ARIZONA STATE 



pageS The Observer •IRISH INSIDER Friday September 11, 1998 


THE FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME 
.. 
vs 

THE SPARTANS OF MICHIGAN STATE 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1998 EAST LANSING, MICHIGAN 
Photos by Douglas Jefferson Hsu 

,. 





