
Thursday, January 22, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 75 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• FACULTY SENATE 
Faculty Senate addresses recruiting, finances 

By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
Salaries, budget issues and office space were among the top­ics raised at Provost Nathan Hatch's annual discussion with the Faculty Senate last night. The provost responded to ques­tions prepared and submitted by faculty members for discussion. 
The meeting focused on Notre Dame's ability to compete for top professors and graduate stu­dents in terms of pay and bene­fits. Hatch noted that Notre Dame, with an average faculty salary of $71,300, ranks 16th among 190 major institutions. 
In the realm of faculty bene­fits, including health coverage and tuition breaks, the University ranks 24th. 
"Our current pay structure is immensely competitive," says Hatch. but he acknowledges there are other important issues for potential hires. One source of difficulty has been luring top academics to the South Bend area away from more traditional college towns such as Boston, Berkeley and Ann Arbor. 
"We must work to build a dynamic intellectual Mecca in a place no one would pick it," Hatch said. "Our goal has to be to make sure that· salary is not the primary issuf\ in hiring." 
There was also concern that, while Notre Dame's pay scale is high in some departments, it is low in others, particularly busi­ness. Among Big Ten schools Notre Dame trails only Northwestern in average faculty salary, but falls short of all of those institutions in the average salary of business school faculty, according to a recent survey. 
In science departments, how­ever, Hatch notes that starting salaries are similar across the board and that issues such as laboratory space and spousal hiring are important factors in 
see FACULTY I page 8 
ND gifts to United Way reach high 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Writer 
For more than 18 years now, Notre Dame has been affiliated with the St. Joseph County United Way. Faculty and staff ofthe University donate money to the program, which ,gives aid to thos~ living around and within the Notre Dame community in various wavs. 
"There are a number of Notre Dame families that are benefited by the United Way organlzatio:th" said Doug Hemphill, manager of Employment & Affirmative Action, Department of Human Resources. 
This year a total of 1.433 faculty and staff members of the University donated $259,331 to the United Way, surpassing the goal for 1997 by $34,331. That amount topped 1996 donations by $70.352, and this year's gift was a record in the number of both dollars and donors. 
"The significant increase in giv· ing speaks well of the generosity of the Notre Dame community,~ said Father Mark Poorman, exec­utive assistant to the executive vice president and the University's United Way liaison. 
Ninety-nine cents of every dole Jar donated by Notre Dame employees stays within the St. Joseph County area itself. so the program is very beneficial to local projects, such as the Logan Center and the Salvation Army. The funds raised are allocated to programs and agencies aroun~ the South Bend area to help improve health and human ser­vices. 
"Notre Dame is the largest employer in the area ... and the United Way really focuses on workplace," said Hemphill. 
"We are pleased to play a role in supporting the vital mission of the United Way and hope to assist even more in the future," said Poorman. 
For now, Hemphill is just happy with the present. "We are pretty proud of the dollar amount raised." 

Pope makes historic visit to Cuba 

Associated Press 
HAVANA 
Pope John Paul II, a "messenger of truth and hope," began a historic pil­grimage Wednesday to Cuba, land of hardship, embattled faith and an aging, struggling revolution. 
President Fidel Castro, dressed in a double-breasted blue suit instead of his usual fatigues, was among those waiting to greet John Paul as the 77­year-old pope slowly climbed down from his plane after arriving at 4 p.m. 
Four children, dressed in white, held up a box of Cuban soil so the pontiff could continue his tradition of 
• STUDENT SENATE 
kissing the ground as he arrived. ·"John Paul the Second! The whole world loves you!" the crowd chanted. 
For more than an hour, at the cen­ter of world attention in the televised airport ceremony, the white-clad pope and the gray-bearded 71-year­old revolutionary moved easily together. 
The Cuban leader aided the bent and ailing pontiff, offering his hand at the pope's elbow. 
Things may not be so solicitous when the two hold their substantive session Thursday. 
Castro hopes the visit will gain stature for his revolution and support for an end to the more than three­
decade-old U.S. economic embargo. 
The Cuban church hopes the visit will 
help it expand its influence. 
In his airport remarks, John Paul 
said he was praying that Cuba "may 
offer to everyone a climate of free­
dom, mutual trust, social justice and 
lasting peace." Castro said if there 
have been difficulties between the 
church and his revolutionary govern­
ment, "the revolution is not to 
blame." 
En route to Havana, the pope told 
reporters aboard the papal plane that 
he wants to hear from Castro "the 
full truth of his country, about rela­
tions between church and state." 
Standing at an airport lectern 
under a blazing sun, the pope cele­
brated this "happy and long-awaited 
day" and spoke out on the U.S.­
Cuban standoff that has long isolated 
this communist nation. 
"May Cuba, with all its magnificent ·potential, open itself up to the world, 
and may the world open itself up to 
Cuba," he declared. 
And he firmly endorsed .what he 
called the "legitimate desires" of the 
Roman Catholic Church in Cuba and 
its quest for more privileges under 
Castro's government. 
"I wish to say with the same force 
as at the beginning of my pontificate: 
'Do not be afraid to open your hearts 
to Christ.' Allow him to come into 
your lives, into your families, into 
society," he said. 
see POPE I page 4 

Student questions lack of senate action 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Associate News Editor · 
The purpose of the Student Senate as the "voice of the stu­dent body" was called into question last night by Stanford resident and former senator Mark Leen. 
Referring to the proposal made by the Executive Cabinet of student government to Patricia O'Hara to increase the student activities fee by $15, Lecn was "disturbed" by the senate's neglect to address or vote on the issue. 
"While I realize that there is no formal procedure governing the submis­sion of pro­posals to the Board of Trustees, it is disturbing that mem­bers of Student Government, especial­ly the president and the vice president, consider it appropri­ate policy not to submit what is essentially a tax-raising pro­posal to the Student Senate," Leen stated in his letter to the senate. 

Leen encouraged members of the senate to take some sort of action in contemplating this issue, as it has not yet been formally accepted by the Board of Trustees. 
"Fortunately, it is not too late to act. Take up the initiative and open a debate on the issue. Though there is no pro­cedure preventing Student Government members from presenting proposals without the assent of the Senate, the Board of Trustees will look to your opinion as pre-eminent, since it is you who have the entire Student Body's man­date," Leen's letter concluded. 
Student Body president Matt Griffin qualified the Executive Board's decision to propose the fee increase by reminding Leen that two members of Student Senate were on the board that drafted the propos­
al. 
"There were two senators that helped. And in the past, it has always been procedure to submit proposals this way [without formal approval of the senatel. We just followed past procedure." 
see SENATE I page 8 
Thursday, January 22, 1998
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
r-·---,~Z .. ·. ./' • 
\,~'c ~Putstde the Dome 
"\_f · Compiled from U-Wire reports 
'Sickening' racist memo circulates at IUPUI 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
An Ode To 
YOU 
Nora Regina Meany This world is an 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor
unkind place. We shuffle around from day to day, concentrating on our own per­sonal deadlines and crises. Speaking per­sonally, I nPver really look beyond the nngativn aspects of my existence. 1\spncially when I write this column. So, today I'd just like to sit down with YOU and tell YOU how great I think you are. Because, I am a big fan of YOU. 
I hope you realize how unique YOU arc. llow wonderful YOU arn. llow this world would not he the same without YOU, because YOU givn it a di!Tnrent spin that I nmlly apprP.ciatP.. I hopn I'm not sounding patronizing, but I am amazed by how YOU think. I really like YOUH ideas, and YOUH views about life. YOU arc so cool. 
And YOU are really smart, too. C'mon, don't deny it. YOU would not be in college without the rnasoning, wit, intelligence and common sense that YOU possess. I mean, sometinws I am blown away at how YOU can handln the stress and workload of' higher education while juggling all of those non-academic things that YOU do in YOUH free time. Wow. 
But let's not forget looks, because YOU have got that in the bag. I know YOU might look in the mirror sometimes and groan at what YOU sec, but all I sec are YOUH good traits. YOUH hair ... YOUH eyes ... YOUH beautiful face. I've never seen anything quite like them in all of' my days on this earth. YOU are striking. So YOU don't look like a "Melrose Place" extra ... so what? To be quite honest, I wish that I could look more like YOU sometimes. 
But that doesn't matter in the long run. does it? I truly believe that YOUH best fea­turns aren't rP.Ilected in a mirror anyway. YOU arc such an individual, and YOU have such spirit! I think of how kind YOU can be, espm:ially when nobody is looking. YOU have the capacity to he such a corn­passionate, patient and giving person. YOUH love for others shines through with thn littln stuff that YOU do every day. 
I know sometirnns YOU doubt YOUH­SI\LF. That's only natural. I mean, YOU are at the threshold of life, and that can b1~ a very scary place to be. It's okay if YOU feel insecure or frustrated some­times. It's okay if YOU don't know all of the answers right now. I don't think that YOU will ever know all of the answers. Life would not be complete without mis­takes, so don't be afraid to make them. I have faith that YOU will lind the right path to takP. someday. YOU are going to do great things with YOUH life. YOU can be anything that YOU want to be. I believe in YOU .... 
One more thing. And this is just between YOU and me. YOU are never alone. YOU are NEVEH alone. YOU will never be alone. Sometimes that's hard to believe, but know in YOUR heart that it's true. I will always be there ... especially when YOU need me the most. Please don't be afraid to turn to me. 
Well. YOU haven't been yourself lately, so I just thought I'd tell YOU what I was feeling. 
I'm glad wn had this talk.... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Anne-Marie Mattingly  Emmett Malloy  
Allison Koenig  Graphics  
Bill Uniowski  Tom Roland  
Sarah Dylag  Production  
Sports  Mark DeBoy  
Anthony Bianco  Brad Prendergast  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Kevin Dalum  

The Ob.erver (USPS 599 2-4000} is puhli.,hed Monday through Friday cxccpc during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of £he Associared Press. All rcproducrion rights are reserved. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
While most law students returned to campus with junk mail in their mailboxes, first-year African-· American law students at IU-Purdue 
University at Indianapolis received a memorandum filled with "bigotry and racist remarks," according to a press release. 
"It was the worst docu­

ment of its kind that I have seen in my professional life, and it truly sick­ened me," School of Law-Indianapolis dean Norman Lefstein said in a letter to all IUPUI law students. 
The Indiana Daily Student obtained a copy of the memo through e-mail Tuesday but could not confirm the exact content. The memo stated the School of Law-Indianapolis is only for whites, and African-Americans were only admitted because of affirmative action. 
Lefstein said the memo was distrib­uted without authorization through the use of student mail folders. Without permission, the heading on the memo was titled "Constructive Notice" -the logo used routinely by the school's administration. The author or authors of the document failed to identify themselves, except to state it was from "Ray A. Sism." 
IUPUI police department has confis­cated about a dozen of the memos and is analyzing the evidence for fin­gerprints. The IUPUI police depart­me:Jt is investigating the case in con­junction with the IUPUI Office of Affirmative Action. 
Marshall Collins, IUPUI executive director of communications and pub­lic relations, said the IUPUI Office of Affirmative Action and thn IUPUI police department have eoncluded the memo did not meet tho guidelines of intended harm, so this incident is not a criminal aetivity. 
IUPUI chancellor Gerald Bepko released a statement on civility in response to the racist memo. Thn statement was published in Tuesday's Sagamore, IUPUI's newspaper. 
"It is deplorable that studnnts, fac­ulty and stall' at IUPUI have been sub­jected to hatred and bigotry as expressed in the memorandum," Bepko said in the statement. 
Bepko added the IUPUI eommunity must work together to eombat tho hatred expressed in the memo. 
"If we are to be true to our commit­ment to diversity and bo welcoming to all, everyone must do his or her part," Bepko said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNEAPOLIS 
IRS gives tax break to student workers 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
University student employees taking at least six credits are exempt from paying Social Security taxes, according to an IHS ruling Friday. The decision affects all higher learning institutions by more clearly defining a provision in the federal tax code. The provision exempts students employed by the college they attend from paying Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) taxes, as long as they are enrolled half-time. Students who are "career employ­ees," defined as those eligible to receive retirement bene­fits, do not qualify for the exemption. Non-exempt employ­ers and employees each must pay 7.65 percent of earned wages into the FICA tax base, which accrues money for Social Security and Medicare. Elizabeth Nunnally, University Business Services taxes director, said that large public institutions such as universities will benefit most from these new FICA exemption rules. "That's a financial burden borne not only by the university student but also the employer," Nunnally said. Employers pay the percent­age on top of earned wages while employees pay it out of their wages. 
• PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Prof may have smoked up again 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Julian lleicklen, professor emeritus of chemistry, sat down Thursday outside the University Gates and smoked what appeared to be a joint. However, University Police Services supervisor Stewart Neff said the substance lacked the distinct odor of marijuana and, therefore, was deter­mined not to be marijuana. Neff said Hcicklcn's "cigarette" was not confiscated, nor was it tested. University Police Services supervisor Dwight Smith said Heicklen was not taken into custody because Heicklen was not smoking mar­ijuana when the officers arrived at the scene. Police believed Heicklen was trying to make a political statement, Smith said. It also would not have been in the community's best interest to arrest Heicklen, Smith said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
NASA sends student project to space 
ANN AHBOH, Mi1:h. 
Six UM students were standing at NASA Wednesday. awaiting the moment the space shuttle Endeavor launched with one of their projects. The first prod uet designed by university students ever to travel into space. the Vortex Ring Transit Experiment will ride in the space shuttle that leaves Earth today and bring baek informa­tion that could help the medical and aerospace engineP.r­ing fields. The VOHTEX, a three-year-old project headed by engineering graduate student Sven Bilen, is a fluid physics experiment that examines liquid atomization. "It's a great idea," said Luis Bernal. assoeiato professor of aerospace engineering. "It's important for students to have hands-on engineering experience. I don't think many student projects end up being this successful." Th1~ VORTEX will use silicone oil to look at how liquids change atomically in the absence of gravity. After VOH­TEX collects 10 hours of data in space, it will bring back information that will lead to real-world applications for 
, the future, including ideas about fuel atomization and data that could benefit the medical world. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Unattended candle sparks dorm fire 
BEHKELEY, Calif. 
An unattended candle on the eighth floor of Unit 1's Cheney Hall kindled a two-alarm lire last night that (im~ed 200 studenl'i to evacuate the building. The blazn and water from the sprinklers that quenched it caused an estimated $15,000 in damages. At the time of the lire, students could lind no resident assistant in the building, even though one was supposed to be on duty. Hesidents were displaced for an hour and a half but were eventually able to rnturn to their rooms. The lire started shortly after 8 p.m. inside room 80(>, whose residents, Jonathon Peterson, a freshman, and Alnx Brandmeyer, a junior, were eating pizza slicHs at Blondie's. By 8:30 p.m., the fire had been contained by the sprinkler system. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather""forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 22. 
AccuWcather"'forccast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
....~--····! 
r·----_,.....-· ............................." H 
L' 
Thursday Q. 34 30, Frida~ Q. 33 23 
·:· ·:· 
Saturday Q. 31 15 Sunday< ~32 24 

Boston 22 32 Honolulu 70 80 Phoenix 43 67 
~ c:::::2 
Chicago 28 33 Indianapolis 34 39 Pittsburgh 27 42
4-~-~9.~8 {) 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud) 
Columbus 31 45 Los Angeles 49 69 St. Louis 31 36 

Vis Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Dallas 38 42 Miami 68 81 Wash., D.C. 32 
Thursday, January 22, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 
Physicists examine mass mystery 
By SARAH HILTZ 
Assistant News Editor 
While the concept of mass is one of the oldest and most basic aspects of physics, it is not yet known exactly where mass comes from. Thanks to the Large lledron Collider Project, scien­tists might soon find out. 
The project includes a $6 bil­lion particle accelerator which is now under construction in Geneva. Switzerland. Several universities in the U.S., including Notre Dame, are collaborating with international researchers to uncover clues that could help answer the most profound and puzzling scientific questions known to man. such as the source of mass and what the uni­verse looked like after the Big Bang. 
Tho mystory of tho source of mass begins with the atom, the basic unit of all matter. Atoms contain protons, which in turn am comprised of particles called quarks and gluons. The interac­tion of energy between these particles results in a total energy of 7 trillion volts per proton. 
According to Notre Dame pro­fessor of physics Randy Ruchti, who is working on the project, the broakdown of the proton may go one step further. The main goal of the project is to prove scientifically the presence of the Higgs boson particle so that it can be isolated and pro­duced. 
Hopefully, this goal can be accomplished by running two protons along a 27 km magnetic track in opposite directions. 
'WE MAY BE WRONG. IF WEARE, WE LEARN SOMETHING, TOO. 
BUT THIS IS A HUGE, WON­
DERRJL PHYSICS OPPORTUNI­
TY.' 
RANDY RUCHTI 
PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS 
When the two protons collide, the result is a release of energy. Researchers hope that the resulting energy will be in the form of either photons or muons, whose presence could signify the existence of Higgs boson parti­cles. 
Another goal of the project is to figure out the status of energy after the Big Bang. 
"After the Big Bang, energy levels were very high and things were very simple," Ruchti explained. Now, things are cool­er, which allows humans to exist as they are." But energy has diversified into several forms that are difficult for scientists to analyze and work with. Scientists speculate that the Higgs boson particles were present in this high-energy environment were responsible for the eventual cre­ation of matter; thus, isolating the particles is key in under­standing the source of matter. 
Ruchti explained that researchers hope to discover a "new physics" by operating the particle accelerator. Einstein's theory of relativity, on which most contemporary physics is based, is a geometric theory. Ruchti aspires to use data from the LHC project to "bring gravity into the picture with other forces into a quantum picture." 
The first data from the LHC project will not be collected until 2005, and there is no guarantee that current theories will even be supported by the results. Nevertheless, Ruchti is enthusi­astic about the possibilities of 

such an innovative experiment. 
"We may be wrong," Ruchti said. "If we are, we learn some­thing, too. But this is a huge, wonderful physics opportunity," said Ruchti. 

Dority receives NO's first Higgins Award 
By MARY ZAKAS 
News Writer 

Don't miss your chance!!! 

Summer Service Projects '98 
DEADLINE: January 23rd 
Applications are available at the CSC (Sign up for an interview, too!) 
-8 weeks ofservice-learning -$1700 Tuition Scholarship -3 elective Theology credits 
Questions??? 
Call Sue (1-7867) or Erika (4-1494) 
Douglas H. Dority, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, has been honored as the first recipient of the University of Notre Dame's Higgins Social Justice Award. 
In describing his philosophy about union and labor rela­tions, Dority remarked that, "American workers are the backbone of society -they make things happen. They are very important." 
This award, presented on behalf of the Higgins Labor Research Center by Monsignor George Higgins himself, is given for "dedicat­ed union leadership and appreciation of quality research." 
Higgins, for whom both the center and the award are named, served for more than 50 years as a champion of the Catholic Church and the workers' rights to unionize for the sake of securing fair wages and benefits. 
When presenting the award, Higgins stressed a "desperate need for a revival of interest in the labor issue among Catholic universities." He named Dority as a key figure in furthering the workers' rights movement. · 
Dority has held several 
U.F.C.W. positions and orga­nized Colonial Supermarkets, where he originally began work as a clerk. He has served as a regional director and executive vice president of the Retail Clerks International Union and then became the organizing direc­tor of U.F.C.W. In 1994, Dority was elected president ofU.F.C.W. 
At a dinner held in his honor, Dority was suprised to hear that the members of the 
U.F.C.W. had donated a $50,000 scholarship to the Higgins Center in gratitude for his service. The scholar­ship money, in the form of small checks from U.F.C.W. members from all parts of the country, will benefit graduate student research in union and managment issues. 
In his acceptance speech, Dority named Higgins as the most significant player in the pro-labor movement, empha­sizing "the value and dignity of work." 
He noted that, in the Bible, God made man to work "by the sweat of his brow," and that workers should be treat­ed with respect for doing God's work. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
Thursday, January 22, 1998
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
page 4 
Pope 
continued from page 1 
Castro. in his address, dcnoum:ed the U.S. embargo as "genocide" and sought to identify his rPvolution's ideals with those of thB ehmeh. 
"Anotlwr country will not be found bntt£H disposed to und£\rstand your fnlicitous idna ... that the equitable dis­tribution of wnalth and soli­darity among men and peoples should bo globalized," said Castro, onn of the world's last communist leaders. 
Tlw papal visit, long delayed and much anticipated, may help set a nnw course for the Cuban chureh, if not for Cuba itself. 
But no matter what else the 
pope's visit brings, Orquidea 
Mosa, one pious llavana 
parishion£\r, said "the popo 
will bless the people of Cuba" 
-II million who for four 
dncados havn suffen\d through 
one of thn world's longest-run­
ning political showdowns. 
The Cuban governmont took 
oxtraordinary steps tp make 
the popn's welcome a memo­
rabin onn. 
llavana workers were given 
thn aftmnoon ofT. on a sunny 
80-dngnw day, and many wen~ 
bused to sites along the papal­shortages, the pope's visit cised in John Paul's native 
Poland, where papal visits
route. Thousands lined offers a glimmer of hope. 
Havana's streets to cheer as "I hope he makes an appeal helped galvanize the move­
ment that toppled commu­
for us against the U.S. embar­John Paul's final public go," said a postal worker, nism. Jorge Puig Lopez. "That's the In fact, strengthening the 
the pope-mobile moved by in 
appearance of the day. 
Cuban ehurch may be the most
For the pope's visit, number one thing." 
John Paul had taken on the realistic goal of the papal visit,
Communist party workers had 
embargo aboard his plane, first discussed by tlw Vatican
joined church volunteers in 
and Havana in 1979 but long
tacking the pope's portrait to when reporters asked whether 
he had a message for postponed because of its politi­
palm trees, telephone poles and even the backs of bicycle Washington regarding the cal sensitivity. 
cabs. One was even spotted sanctions. lie replied, "To Compared with other Latin American countries, the Cuban
on the national Capitol, where change, to change." 
church has always been
Castro's revolutionar­
weak.
ies once 
African-based "sante­
declared Cuba an 
'MAY CUBA, WITH ALL 
ria" rites, developed by
atheist nation. 
ITS MAGNIFlCENT colonial slaves, are
llavana became a 
more widely praetieed
city of startling eon-POTENTIAL, OPEN ITSELF UP 
than Catholic rites.
trasts -starkest of all Although nnver banned, church activi­
the scene at the hal-TO THE WORLD, AND MAY 
lowed Plaza of the THE WORLD OPEN ITSELF UP 
ties were restricted
Hevolution, where the 
TO CUBA.' after Castro's rnvolu­
papal route passed 
tion, Catholic schools
towering rival images 
being dosed, for exam­
of Christ and of revo­
POPE JOHN PAUL /1 
ple.
lutionary hero Che 
Castro has loosened
Guevara. 
some strictures on the church
"Jesus Christ, in you l trust," John Paul also said Castro's declares the one, "Until victo­revolution has improved edu­since the early 1990s, but ry, forever!" the other. cation and health in Cuba., but Catholic leaders want still needs to make "progress in more "space" -more aceess to
The papal route also wound past signs of the economic 
the order of human freedom." the public media, more free­But those in the U.S. Cuban dom to import foreign prinsts,
deeay omnipresent in Havana -peeling pastel facades, exile community who hope the perhaps eventually even ·a restoration of some Catholic
crumbling roadways, fleets of visit wi II precipitate major bieyeles and decrepit sedans political change here may be education. 
from the 1950s. disappointed. The church and But a more immediate ques­To many Cubans. who blame the pope don't have the kind tion troubled many Catholics the U.S. trade embargo for of influence in Cuba thl:)y exer-and other Cubans: llow well 
will the pope, hobblnd by many ailmnnts over tlw years, work his way through a busy five-day schedule on this tropi­cal isle? 
Each morning, hnginning Thursday, the pope will travrl to a provincial city -Santa Clara, Camaguey, Santiago dn Cuba -for an open-air Mass, and tlwn return to thn capital for afternoon events. 
In Ilavana, lw will nH~Pt with Castro and othnr Cuban lead­nrs Thursday and oflkiatn at a Mass on Sunday in thn Plaza of thP. H1wolution -an evm1t that may draw a half-million or more Cubans. 
Got 
~wsQ
• 
carr 
C)he Q&server 1-5323 
Spring Break Setninars 
March 7-14, 1998 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIASEN.ITNAR 
Service Learning at one of 12 sites in the Appalachian region 
Information Session: Jan. 26th, 7:30PM 

L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants Live with migrant families Information Session: Jan. 21st, 7:00PM 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Environmental Issues 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities Information Session: Jan. 26th, 7:00PM 

All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 

CENTER F 0 R 

SOCIAL 
Applications Due: Jan. 28, 1998 
CONCERNS 
UiTt:Rt:STt:D Ui MJUmJU. ARTS? Xt:t:D t:Xt:RC~St:? l.ORX TJ\t:KWOXDO f"ROM••• 

World Taekwondo Federation Club 
International Grand Master 7th Degree Black Belt World Championship Coach Pan Am Championship Coach and Referee Recognized by International Olympic Committee 
Come and join us for a BEGINNERS class starting this Saturday 
Class schedule: Saturdays Adv. 4:00-4:45; Beg. 4:45-5:30 Sundays Adv. 7:00-7:45 pm; Beg. 7:45 -8:30pm Thursdays?? Rockne Gym rm #301 
Questions? Call Instructor Anita 1-6869 
.J11niors in MISICSE Majo••s: 
Considering a career in systems consulting? 
. . ME .. DATASHEET TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT BY , jANUARY 27. INTERVIEWS WILL BE CONDUCTED MoNDAY, FEBRUARY 16. 
WILL BE HOSTING AN INFORM~1:l()N SES, jANUARY 22, FROM 8 TO lOPM;l~THE ON THE }RD FLOOR oF LAFoR,'I'uNE. 

Thursday, January 22, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Senator wants cloning ban 
WASHINGTON 
Son. Christopher Bond, R-Mo., said he will propose an emergency prohibition on the cloning of humans. The lawmaker pre­dicted that the recent announcement by a Chicago scientist that he will seek to clone a human will spur Congress to act quickly. "While we may be prepared from a techno­logical standpoint to proceed with this research, we are not prepared from an ethical standpoint," Bond said. In the llousn, Majority Leader Dick Armey, R­Texas, vowed last week: "We are going to move that ban." Armey called it "a nasty business." Earlier this month, Chicago physicist Richard Seed said he was deter­minnd to clone a human within 18 months. Socci said hewould move his enterprise off­shore to Tijuana, Mexico, if Congress bans human cloning in America. Seed has three Harvard degrees, including a Ph.D., but he has no medical degree, no money and no institutional backing. "I don't think we can take him very seriously," said Rep. Vernon Ehlnrs, R-Mich., author of the House bill to prohibit human cloning. Ehlers also is a nuclear physicist and a devout Christian. "If hn thinks he can produce a clone in 18 months. he obviously doesn't know the field and the problems in it. I have no doubt in my mind that some day we can producn a human clone if we wish to, but it's not going to be in 18 months," he said. 
U.S. lacks teachers for 
non-native speakers 
WASHINGTON 
A lack of trained teachers and problems in determining language abilities are deny­ing an equal education to many students who speak limited English, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights said Wednesday. The commission, in a 232­page report, said the Educatio Department's Office for Civil Rights has "developed an effective program" to ensure that grade-schoolers and high­schoolers with limited English have the access required under the Civil Rights Act of 1964. A 1974 Supreme Court decision determined that students with limited English were covered by that act. However. the report said the department's program has a number of weaknesses, making it difficult for states and districts to tell whether they are following the law. Among those are the lack of policy on eval­uation and allocation of teachers. That's critical, the report said, because the num­ber of students with limited English reached 3.2 million in 1995 and is grow­ing. "With inadequate numbers of teachers in many school districts, schools cannot provide enough staff to meet the needs of integrated classrooms," the report said. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq:-78.72 1587.92 

-2.22 
NYSE: 507.90 -4.02 
S&P 500: 
970.78
7794.40 
-7.82 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMpANY  TICKER  'HI CHANGE  $GAJN  PRICE  
COMI'RESSEST-WTS  CSNTW  36.11  0.812  3.062  
US C:IIINA IND-UTS  UIDXU  30.00  0.562  2.438  
f'SINET 1:-.IC  !'SIX  29.81  1.938  8.438  
>fii.I.ENNIU>t Si'-WT  MSPTW  29.17  1.750  7.750  
XCI. LTD  XLC  27.37  1.062  4.875  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
liYBRID NETWORKS HYRR 49.37 4.B75 s.ooo LEASING EJ)(;f..J'FO LECF.P 27.78 1.250 3.250 NEUROMEDICAL SYS NSIX 25.81 1.000 2.875 VION PHARM-UTS VIONU 23.15 1.256 5.188 llAOU SYSTEMS INC DAOU 20.36 6.:112 24.688 
Clinton denies new allegations 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
In dozens of taped conversa­tions now in the hands of Whitewater prosecutors, a former White House intern says she had an affair with President Clinton and that he tried to get her to lie about it, lawyers said Wednesday. An outraged president denied the allegations. 
"There is not a sexual relation­ship," Clinton said firmly in a White House interview. "I did not ask anyone to tell anything other than the truth." 
Prosecutors immediately sub­poenaed the White House for doc­uments about the young woman while new evidence surfaced that Clinton's United Nations ambas­sador, Bill Richardson, and anoth­er longtime confidant, Vernon Jordan, arranged jobs for 24­year-old intern Monica S. Lewinsky. 
The offers came around the time Ms. Lewinsky prepared an affidavit in the Paula Jones sexual harrasment case denying an affair with Clinton -a denial now called into question by tape recordings secreHy made by one of her friends, officials confirmed. 
Whitewater prosecutors were already investigating job-for­silence allegations that Jordan AFP Photo and other Clinton friends T~is p~oto taken from tel~vision shows U.S. President Bill Clinton during a 45-minute arranged work for Whitewater 1nterv!ew condu~ted ~y J1m Lehrer yest~rday on ''The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer" pro­figure Webster Hubbell, a former gran:. Cl1nto_n was 1nterv1ewed _about alle~at1ons that he was involved in a sex scandal with 

associate attorney. When ques-Momca Lewinsky, a former Wh1te House 1ntern. 
tioned by Whitewater investiga­tors, Hubbell has told them he can not recall key events. 
Attorney General Janet Reno and a federal appeals court panel approved Whitewater Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr's request to expand his inquiry into the events surrounding Ms. Lewinsky. 
The young intern's attorney, William Ginsburg, said Wednesday that "at this time she stands by her" affidavit deny­ing the affair. 
Later, however, Ginsburg suggested in a television interview that her account could change. 
Ms. Lewinsky is scheduled to give a deposition Friday in the Jones lawsuit. 
CBS reported she planned to invoke her Fifth Amendment right against self­incrimination. 
The developments capped a day of turmoil for Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky, who was at the center of a legal and media storm. 
Word of the new investigation gripped the White House and had polit­ical figures talking of possible impeach­ment if the allegations were borne out. 
The investigation was prompted when one of Ms. Lewinsky's friends, former White House staffer Linda Tripp, provided Starr with tapes in which Ms. Lewinsky alleged an affair with Clinton and recounted conversa­tions she allegedly had in which Clinton and Jordan asked her to deny the rela­tionship, lawyers said. 
Two lawyers familiar with the tapes said Ms. Lewinsky described an affair in no uncertain terms in conversations tape-recorded secretly by Tripp. 
The lawyers said· that in these con­versations Ms. Lewinsky said Jordan assisted her in getting a new job in New York in recent months, around the time she was subpoenaed the Jones case. 
Cosmetic company Revlon disclosed Wednesday that Jordan referred Ms. Lewinsky for a public affair job at a Revlon affiliate. She was interviewed over the last two months and offered a job. 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 22, 1998 
Calendar of Events 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday -Saturday, January 23-24 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Vocles of Faith Gospel Choir Spring Retreat 
Saturday, January 24 
Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Misa en Espanol · Spanish Mass 
Sunday, January 25 
1:30pm 
Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Sign-up for NDE #50 (Feb.27·March 1) 
Mon.-Fri., January 26-30 103 Hesburgh Library 
Campus Bible Study Tuesday, January 27 
7:00pm Campus Ministry -Badin Hall 
Emmaus 
Are you interested in joining a scripture/faith sharing group in your resi­dence hall? Discover a new wau to be part of a community to enrich your faith. Stop in to Campus Misistry for information or con­tact Jim Lies, C.S.C., John or Sylvia Dillon, Kate Barrett or Sarah Granger at 631-5242 
New Campus Ministry choir 
Rehearsals on Wednesdays, 7:00-8:00pm at Stanford-Keenan Chapel. For information call Karen Schneider-Kirner at 1-5242 
Third Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, January 24 
5:00p.m. Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C 
Sunday, January 25 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, D.D. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Sunday Vespers 
Sunday, January 25 
7:15p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Nehemiah 8:2-6, 8-10 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 12:12~30 Gospel Luke 1:1-4; 4:14-21 
THE GRAY DAY SOUTH BEND BLUES 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
It's not a simple matter to overcome the forces of nature, par­ticularly when they come in the form of a successive string of cold gray days. It doesn't help that we're just back from a long break where we re-learned how to sleep in and how to go out. But, nonetheless, we're back at it, back in the Bend and back to the books. So what now? How do we bring color and life to these days that might otherwise be lost in an endless morass of dreariness? How do we prevent the weather from becoming the determinative factor in our lives? 
I don't know. But don't think I'm not going to attempt an answer! 
I think that we can all agree that the most important thing about life is relationships, relationships with our families, our friends, and most importantly with our God. The best of them can overcome the dreariest weather, and the worst of them can dampen even the sunniest day. It occurs to me that, in many ways, we come to know ourselves a good deal better when we interact with others in our world, and we come to know God and the stirrings of the Spirit in our lives when we take the time to attempt to articulate how we've experienced God in the circumstances of our lives. But oddly enough, as true as that may be, we don't often take that time. How often do we stop to consider how God has been present to us in our day? And how might we better be about the business of that reflection? 
Many students within the Notre Dame community have expressed the need for a place where young women and men can come together to share their jouney of faith, to gather socially, and to reflect on the things that matter in their lives. This week, the Office of Campus Ministry IS beginning a new initiative call"Emmaus." Emmaus is a program which intends to bring together students who want to enter into dialogue with others about faith and relation­ships, about God and about life. Like the travelers on the road to Emmaus who recognized Jesus in the stranger, we want the same for you. We want all who would join us to know the same joy and hope that those original travelers experienced in meeting Jesus along the road. 
Our having been at Notre Dame, regardless of the weather, won't mean much if we don't walk away from this place at the end of our tenure here with some significant relationships. And we believe that none of those relationships will amount to much on the long term if they are not rooted in the one and essential relationship with Jesus Christ. It is that which we should be about in these days. 
Emmaus isn't the only way to get at that important task, but it is one of the ways. We would welcome any and all who are inter­ested in gathering with others to share faith and Scripture to join Emmaus. There is an ongoing enrollment through the Library or Badin Offices of Campus Ministry, but the sooner you sign up, the sooner you'll be placed with six to seven others in a group. You also have the option of signing up as a group if you wish to deepen your relationships with already existing groups of friends. 
This is no small matter. Our very happiness in life is wrapped up in our efforts to deepen in faith and to strengthen rela­tionships. Know that Campus Ministry wants to help in any way it can to get at the most important questions of life. Please contact our offices to find out more about all that we do. 
And cheer up. The sun'll come out tomorrow... er, maybe next week. .. well, by April anyway! 
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

~------------------------------~-----­
Thursday, January 22, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Parlez-vous Francais? 
$3.00 cover with I. D. at the door. 
XtreamZ Nightclub 1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend Ave. IN 46615 *******************************219-283-0653******************************* 
Eddy past LaFayette, right at Mishawaka Ave. Exit, at first light on right side. 
page 7 
ard discusses ...·... emester 

Gemmer said. 
Residence Hall Association representative Missy Lind said that care packages did not get delivered as promised. From now on,the 
. din.ing hall will not offer care 
>Bti,dkages. . . . . •.·· ..•· ·•
. 'Art organization c~ll~d . (J.~inpus Fundraisers will ·. offer· students and· their ·par­~nts three varieties of care packages called energy,"
K 
"nutrition," and a package · at is a mixture of the two. change is designed to ate the . oblem of 
in at· night, or· a pas­residence hall mass 
event highlights. The planning for individual hail activities is each hall coun­cil's responsibility. 
Katie Webby, the Student Activities coordinator, nounced that Fr£Jderic,l( qt~rs; > a t1Mionally · wned hypnotist, will me to Saint Mary's n£Jxt . nday and will present his talents at 8 p.m. in Carroll orium. On Feb. 7 at .m. "My Best Friend's will show in the "Blind willshow on 
Prejudice Reduction 
Lunch will be provided 
RSVP: Mickey Franco (631-4355) Adele Lanan (631-7308) 
Conarats CJ'{q) on &eatins # 15 S!"'acuse! 

If you: 
• 
are experienced in working with the Mac computer system 

• 
have some knowledge of computer graphics applications (i.e.photoshop, Illustrator, Quark, Pagemaker, etc.) 


• want to earn.$ and 

If interested please contact Jenn @ 1-6900 or 4-223 7 
page 8 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 22, 1998 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
"Even if members of the sen­ate were asked, tho fact is is that thn p1mple who represent me ­the senate members as a whole -were not asked," Loen replied. "The people elected to represent the studnnt body should rnprnsnnt thn student body." 
Lenn n~iteratnd that the ehangns made to tim constitu­tion by the reform committee last year were speeil'ieally designed to make the senate more r1~presnntativc of the stu­dent body. 
"Members of tho snnate, you are the voice of the student body and if you do not use that voice then you e!Tertivoly siloneo tho ROOO studnnts that you were Plected to n~present," Leen said. 
"I am not denying that you are representing the students, but the final authority of the budget lies in your hands. This is some­thing that you guys should havo brought up." 
Although some members questionnd the importance of their vote on the issue, Leen 's letter wa-; submittnd for eontnm­plation by thn snnatn. 
OTIIEH SENATE NEWS: 
• Student body sncretary Mark !Iiggins outlined two of his ongo­ing projects: More bins for national newspapers like the Chicago Tribunn and US/\ Today ouL-;idn of the dining halls and an attmnpt to rnstrueturn Di\HT so studcnL-; ean register for dasses online from any computer. 
"The Hegistrar is going to experiment with a program !for online registration! on campus," I Iiggins said. "This is so students will no have to worry about the phone bning busy or punching in numb1)rs without being able to see them. This way, you can see your schedule develop in front of you and print it out as soon as you mgister." 
• Senator Matt Mamak pre­sented several oversight com­
mittee issues. Among these was 
a change in the procedure for 
position approvals made by the 
senate. 
"We need to be more clear on 
who we approve and why," 
Mamak said. "Right now we just 
rubber stamp approvals and 
don't really know any back­
grormd information on who we 
arc appmving." 
The senate later passed a res­
olution requiring all recommen­
dations for approval submit a 
written letter with their qualifi­
eations and nmsons for wanting 
tho position and that at least a 
wonk must pass between recom­
mendation and the senate vote 
fiw approval. 
"We don't need a Lee-gate 
snmdal again," Mamak quipped 
in reference to the conflict over 
Lee IIambright's dual positions 
in student government. 
• Hesidence Life committee chairman Matt Szabo reported on the committee's attempt to obtain clocks for classrooms in O'Shaughnessy I I all. 
"I reecived a response from the 
i\cademie Space Manager as fol­
lows: 'i\t this time we cannot 
have clocks in O'Shaughnessy."' 
Szabo explained that the office had given him a three-pronged reason for this decision: the University has no money to pay for these clocks, there have been problems in DeBartolo with peo­ple stealing the docks and the eloeks require batteries. The University, according to Szabo, cannot currently spare the per­sonnol to replace the batteries. 
"Can't we take $250 and buy clocks from Meijer?" asked O'Neill senator Rajit Basu. 
Sovcral other members of Senate volunteered to replace the batteries on a rotating basis. 
• 
Griflin said that the Campus Hook-Up will not be delivered this week or next week because of a "problem with the delivery people and how they are getting paid." 

• 
T. J. Wolfe was approved as the 1998-99 student body trea­surer. 


Faculty 
continued from page 1 
recruiting teachers. 
Endowment of faculty chairs, 
expanded graduate school fund­
ing and increasing undergradu­
ate financial aid were among the 
budget issues discussed. 
More than 100 endowed facul­
ty positions will be created in 
upcoming years. Those will help 
to recruit top academics from 
other schools and keep current 
Notre Dame professors from 
moving on. 
Hatch commentr,d that many members of the University com­munity are unaware of the advances made in graduate school funding in recent years. lie pointed to increases in stu­dent stipends and a $3 million growth in the graduate school budget during the past five years. 
The thorniest question Hatch faced was health insurance for graduate students and their fam­ilies. At the moment the University is not prepared to sub­
sidize insurance costs, but a com­
mittee has been formed to look at 
the issue. 
Hatch called attention to thn 
graduate school's medical assis­
tance program, which provides 
$16,000 for family medical 
expenses. 
The problem of subsidizing health expenses is complicated by the differing financial situa­tion ·of graduate students. Some can pay for insurance on their own. There are no guid1~lines regarding insurance benefits. 
"It's hard to begin a process of' subsidy without having a clear vision of' its limits," !latch said. "There's no magic pot of money to go to here. We have to look at creative ways of solving this at the local level." 
One solution under considera­tion is including the graduate students among faculty and stall' for insurance purposes. 
Reconfiguration of the library was also discussed. The base­ment level of the library, as well as a number of offices on uppnr levels, will be vacated as space becomes available in Flanner IIall. 
i\n $R million survey will be 
conductnd to plan the rnalloca­
tion of library l'loor space. 
Several senators nxpn~ssed hopP 
that graduatn studm1L-; and facul­
ty will be given more spacn for 
research undnr the nnw plans. 
The university will invest $900,000 in a nnw computer cat­aloging system l'or the library. Thn system, call1)d Ex Libris, is usnd in collngiatn lihrarins ar.ross Europ1~ and was the rer.omnwn­dation ol' a committnn convened to snlnr.t tho nnw program. llesburgh Library will lm tlw first library in the Unit11d Statns usn Ex l.ibris. 
Faculty ollkn spac:n, espr~dally for professors in tlw College of Arts and Lnttnrs, was another topic. /\bout (JO singln ollices, as well as somn sharnd ollke span\ will open in Flanrwr llall, reliev­ing somn of the space crunch in the Dcdo llall. 
I latch also nwntionnd thn addi­tion of a new wing to Dceio and thn eonvnrsion of the Morris Inn to ollice space a-; other means of alleviating thn prohlnm. 



•4 BlO>clli:§ fli'({J)m Campu§ 
• 
Augu§t/May llea§e§ availla1blle 

•One 
M({J)]tll.th fJI'ee li'ent with a 

• 
A 


E.A.R..N" UICK C.A.SI-I! 
1997 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break February 20, 21, 22 
Sign ups are: Sat 1/31 9:30a.m.-5:00p.m. Sun 2/111:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • Basement South Dining Hall -631-5449/8792 . 
Thursday, January 22, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
State Farm sues Ford for faulty ignition switches 
industries, seeks to recover mil­
Suit alleges that 
lions of dollars that State Farm has paid to repair fire damage
Ford covered fire 
to its customers' cars. The company also hopes to
hazard knowledge 
recover deductibles of up to By JOSEPH B. TREASTER $1,000 absorbed by policy-hold­
Associated Press 
ers. Ford had acknowledged the 
State Farm. the nation's problem two years ago after largest auto insurer, sued Ford scores of fires were reported. Motor Co. on Tuesday, charging The automaker recalled 8.7 mil­lion vehicles in which they were that the automaker installed lion vehicles it built from 1983 installed, and that millions of defective ignition switches in 26 to 1993. cars with the potentially haz­million cars and then for years A lawyer for the company, ardous parts remain on the 

withheld information about the firmly denying State Farm's alle­road. potential fire hazard from feder­gations, said Tuesday that the "People using these vehicles al officials and customers. recall had remedied the prob­may be at risk and don't know 
The federal lawsuit, an unusu­lem. But State Farm contends it," said Steve Vogel, a State al display of public rancor that Ford should have replaced Farm spokesman. between the insurance and auto the switches in all of the 26 mil-The insurance company said 

Open Skate 

Come to Late Night Olympics on Friday, January 23, and take part in the OPEN SKATE event which ts scheduled from 70:00 PM -Midnight. 
No advance sign-ups necessary. The cost of skate rentals is $ 7. 00 and all rental fees will be donated to Special Olympics. 
$1.00 Donation at the Door -Be a Real Champion, Support Special Olympics!
' ' 
Friday, January 23, 1998 • 7:00PM-4:00 ANI • Joyce Center • 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dome Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <E~ 
allegations." 
In its suit, State Farm said that Ford made "incomplete and misleading statements" to the federal agency in the course of four separate investigations of the fire hazard, hoping it would conclude that no serious prob­lem existed with the switches. 
Ford, the insurance company said,-asserted that there was "no common source or cause explaining" the fire!:!. But the State Farm suit states that inter­nal Ford documents show that the automaker was "well aware in making these statements that the assertion was false." 
John H. Beisner, a partner in the Los Angeles law firm of O'Melveny & Myers, Ford's out­side counsel in the case, said there was no deception on the part of the automaker. 
There were 400,000 fires in cars and trucks in the United States last year, he said, "and they were attributable to a wide variety of causes." 
Neither Ford nor State Farm would say precisely how many vehicle fires could be attributed to the defective ignitions. 
Charles Stuckey, a lawyer for State Farm, said the company was concerned that its ability to pursue some claims might be foreclosed by statutes of limita­tions and so it filed the suit now, expecting to establish the full scope of the damages at trial. 
"We knew that we were prob­ably losing some claims every day that passed," Stuckey said. "So rather than wait for us to come up with a final tally, we just made the decision to go ahead and get it filed." 
The suit refers specifically to 
80 fires that State Farm says 
can be attributed to the ignition 
switches in Fords owned by its 
policyholders in California. 
Wear and tear on plastic parts 
is the apparent cause of the fire 
hazard in the switches. 
Turning the vehicle's ignition 
key causes a plastic plate with 
metal contacts, to slide across 
stationary electrical contacts 
inside the steering column. This 
closes a circuit and sends an 
impulse that starts the engine. 
But "due to wear and tear 
and/or degradation of the plastic 
partition," the lawsuit asserts, a 
short circuit can develop in the 
switch, "melting and igniting 
flammable plastic components." 
-These fires, State Farm offi­
cials said, have started both in 
vehicles with the engine running 
and others that were shut off. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, January 22, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 631-747I SAINT MARY's OHICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager j;unie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor... . ............... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .....................jennifer Breslow Sports Editor. .. ..................... Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor.......................Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ..............,. .......... Karie Kroener 
The ( )bserver is the independent newspaper published by thC' smdenrs of thC' UnivC'rsity ofNotrC' Dame du l..oac and SJint Mary's College. It docs nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The new~ i.~ rC'portcd a.s accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprC'sent rhc opinion of the majority of rhc Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Edimr, Photo Editor, and Associate New~ Editor. Commentaric~. lenC'rs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Nmre Dame/Saint Mary's comrnuniry .md to o1ll readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lencrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Cbicf  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Momaging Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
New.,/ Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Spons  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Acccnr/So1iru Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.l@nd.edu  
General (nformation  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• THE DOOLEY fiLES 
More Real than You Think 
Arriving at work today. I stood in the parking lot on Chapin Street for a minute and looked around. The surroundings have become so familiar to me that they no longer have the novel air of a "service site." It is just one of a thousand ordinary blocks in an ordinary Midwestern dty. 
Ed McCool 

Objectively, I work in the ghetto of South Bend, in the slums. There arn some brick storefronts, but thny end undecorously in narrow alleyways or ragged holes which once lwld dnrnolislwd shops. The nearby Hnd Carpet Lounge. I'm told. really livens up the neighbor­hood at night. There is gravel mixnd into the grass lots-per­haps it's the other way around ­and broken glass returns anew each morning to imperil pedestri­ans and motorists. Every third day a station wagon with tinted win­dows parks on our block and waits for men to approach. 
Now the trnes arc bare, the air is crisp, and standing behind the clin­ic I've a sensation of exposure, as though there is nothing to seclude nHl from the rest of the world. I am unaccustomed to this. I imagine that the walls of houses melt away in my view. and revealed arc nor­mal people, tending to normal lives. And if they could see me, it would not be as a Notre Dame alumnus, but quite simply a man going to his job on the West Side. 
As a student at Notre Dame I joined in the popular notion that South Bend is signilicant for little more than being a cradle for Notre Dame. Yet, South Bend is not a puppet city. The last census count­ed 200,000 people living in and around it, all of them real. Real jobs, real families, and real dreams. Also, real poverty, real hunger, and real misery. 
I have made my niche in a poor neighborhood. There are no stu­dents, no textbooks, no Nissans and Saturns with out-of-state plates, no J. Crew or lzod on the backs of those who stroll by. Notre Dame is invisible from where I stand. 
Through four years I took for granted that all South Bend could offer me was a Notre Dame diplo­ma and its ancillary episodes of 
I 
HAVE MADE MY NICHE IN A 
POOR NEIGHBORHOOD. 
THERE ARE NO STUDENTS, NO 
NISSANS AND SATURNS WITH 
OUT-oF-STATE Pl..ATFS, NO J. 
CREW OR IZOD ON THE BACKS 
OF THOSE WHO STROLL BY. 
NOTRE DAME IS INVISIBLE FROM 
WHERE I STAND. 
college socialization. Once my tran­script was complete I would have to leave. Service might not be a bad idea for a post-graduate activi­ty, but I thought it would certainly mean leaving South Bend. 
I was wrong. I now serve in this city, and could have done so much sooner. All along, I might have been exploring the civilian, less privileged expanses of South Bend, meeting the people not otherwise imminent in my life as a college student. I could have watched real news unfold, instead of only cam­pus events. I could have shown mercy to real people. I could have grown immeasurably. 
Beneath today's gray-blue sky, a touch of exhilaration was present. a shiver of refreshment which made me say a quick prayer of thanks for where I am. 
I no longer fear violence ­though 1997 saw plenty of it­when I walk to my car in the evening. Now, it seems, this is where I am to be, and on some level deeper than the conscious ­a spiritual level -I am at ease here. I picture a sign which hangs near my desk. It says: "But for the Grace of God, There Go 1." 
Imagine that. To locate a city for service my classmates sought out the Peace Corps and Holy Cross Associates. Who knew that I need­ed to go no further than Chapin Street, South Bend, Indiana, to spread the grace of God? 
Ed McCaul is the 1997-98 recipi­ent of the Tom Dooley Service Award. He is a graduate ofthe College ofScience, class of '97, and currently resides in South Bend. His column appears every other· Thursday. He can be reached by e­mail at emccoul@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 

~----------------------~--~----~----------------------------------------·--------------~--~W~---------------­
-:· 
Thursday, January 22, I998 
page 11 
the royal philharmonic ***stars
The Music of Oasis 
out of five
orchestra 

C
lassical repackaging of Oasis songs is noth­ing new. In 1995, the group was joined by an eight-piece string section on television for Britain's "Later with Jools Holland." More importantly, the success of MTV's "Oasis Unplugged" in 1996 paved the way for this most recent offering by The Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. For the MTV Unplugged session, viewers will remem­ber that strings and various gadgets were brought in to enhance Oasis favorites, both old and new. 
For "Oasis Unplugged," the band chose to play songs like "Talk Tonight" and "Don't Look Back In Anger," tracks which lent themselves to a more organic interpretation. When younger brother Liam backed out due to alleged laryngitis, Noel Gallagher's vocals calmly navigated the casual listener through any unfamiliar patches. 
Boldly enough however, not only does The Royal Philharmonic Orchestra use horns and strings in lieu of Liam's voice, but it also tackles some of the more bombastic, in-your-face Oasis classics. While still not household melodies in America, "Rock n' Roll Star" 
ben folds five 

Courtesy of Caroline Records 
and "Cigarettes & Alcohol" have become lyrical rites of passage across the ocean. Even Tony Blair insists he knows all the words. In case he forgets one or two, the prime minister can always get refresher courses whenever Noel periodically stops by 10 Downing Street for drinks. No matter how sappy Oasis contin­ues to get with tracks like "Wonderwall" or "Don't Go Away," these earlier hard-edged numbers from 1994 will forever define the band's image and persona. 
Where The Royal Philharmonic CD disappoints however, is in its reliance on electric guitar to get through some songs. One ·should not issue a classical interpretation of rock n' roll songs and use a rock n' 
Courtesy of Music Club Records 
A
lthough the past few years have seen the explosion of popular bands releasing albums filled with B-sides and other unre­leased material. one might question the move of Ben Folds Five to put out such an album so early in its career. Naked Baby Photos is a mix of stu­dio and live tracks that tries to feed the needs of the common die-hard Ben Folds Five fan. The only prob­lem is that there are not many of those die-hard fans around. 
The studio tracks on the album (which were cut from the band's debut album) provide glimpses of Folds' magnificent songwriting and the band's unique instrumentation. With the current domination of the radio by guitar rock and dance music, it is extremely refreshing to listen to a band made up of piano, bass and drums. The lead track, "Eddie Walker," tells of a man looking back on his uneventful life and the sad­ness that comes with it. "Tom and Mary" is a delight­ful number that could easily find its place in a Broadway musical and "Ernaline" comes complete with an infectious melody perfect for any popular radio station. 
roll instrument. It defeats the whole purpose. The guitar solos are intrusive and unnecessary. If Led Zeppelin announced a rock n' roll rendition of Bach, would it be justified to use a harpsichord? No, it would not. 
That said however, this CD is a treat for any Oasis fan. It also makes for great "wine and cheese" back­ground music next time you have your yuppie friends over to see your place. The order of songs on this CD is appropriate and the orchestra gives new life to bat­tle-tested anthems like "Roll with It" and "Live Forever." "Some Might Say," a track I've never had much time for, serves as the CD's apex and is partic­ularly enjoyable. Liam had better watch himself. French horns don't spit on crowds and they sound almost as good. By the way, did you see The Royal Philharmonic's tribute to Blur? I didn't think so. 
by Sean King 
***stars
Naked Baby Photos 
out of five 
trivia results 
D
illon Allie, Class of 2001, is the man for having correctly answered the trivia ques­tion posted here before Christmas break. The Stone Roses canceled their 1995 Glastonbury Festival at the last minute because guitarist John Squire broke his collarbone in a mountain bike accident. 
Most of the live tracks are previously available in studio formats on the band's other two albums, but a few are humorous songs created by the band to get a good laugh. Two songs, "The Ultimate Sacrifice" and "Satan Is My Master," poke fun at the heavy metal rage of the 1980s, and another song, "For Those Of Y' all Who Wear Fannie Packs," allows the band members to experiment with their blossoming gangs­ta rap skills. These songs are hilarious, but might confuse the average music listener unfamiliar with Ben Folds Five. 
The conclusion is simple: If you are a Ben Folds Five junkie, be sure to grab this one right away. Otherwise, wait until you get your hands on one of its two earlier discs. This is a band that needs to allow some time for its listeners to get to know it a little better. Maybe then will the rest of the world want to look at its Naked Baby Photos. 
by GeoffRahie 

Mentos Freshmaker Tour 
MU330/0peration Cliff Claven 
Paula Cole 
Ekoostik Hookah 
The Jayhawks 
Aerosmith 
Ivy/Space Monkeys ALAN JACKSON/DEANNA CARTER 
Otis Rush 
Mighty Blue Kings 
Seam/Sweep the Leg Johnny 
Jimmy Buffett 
Sugar RayI Goldfinger 
God Lives Underwater 
The Why Store Smoking Popes/Menthol 
The Chieftains 
Jonny Lang 
Everclear Jan. 30 Jan. 30 Feb. 1 Feb.S Feb.7 Feb. 10 Feb. 12 
FEB.13 
Feb. 13 Feb. 14 Feb. 14 Feb. 16 Feb. 16 Feb. 17 Feb.27 Feb.28 March 1 March 11 March 16 House of Blues (Chicago) 
Fireside Bowl (Chicago) 
Piere's (Fort Wayne) 
House of Blues (Chicago) 
Metro (Chicago) 
The Palace (Auburn Hills) 
Patio Lounge (Indianapolis) 
JOYCE CENTER ARENA 
Buddy Guy's Legends (Chicago) 
Citi Lounge (Toledo) 
Double Door (Chicago) 
The Palace (Auburn Hills) 
Newport Music Hall (Columbus) 
Metro (Chicago) 
Piere's (Fort Wayne) 
Frankie's (Toledo) 
Clowes Memorial Hall (Indianapolis) 
Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) 
Emerson Theatre (Indianapolis) 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 22, 1998 
---The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds 
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2 BEDRM HOUSE FOR RENT Brought to you by the cast and crew GRANGER -WASHER, DRYER, of Rhinoceros. Jan22-24
....____N_O_T_IC_E_s_ __.l ~.-I_w._l\_N_T_E_o_ __.ll FOR RENT REFRIG & STOVE. $695 MONTH PERSONAL Washington Hall 
PLUS SECURITY "Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Aide to assist dyslexic WALK TO CAMPUS CALL BOB 232-6434 I like a good cheeseburger Spring Break Packages are going student with reading and 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES ATTN: GAY, LESBIAN, and fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's notetaking at Clay Middle $195/PERSON 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. BISEXUAL Students, Faculty, Joe-new location and check out the best School. 10:15-12:45, M-F, 232-2595 WASHERIDRYER SUMMER OR and Staff .... You want your tapes? Maybe Spring Break vacations around. Jan 26-June 8; $6.00/hr FALL.272-6551 they'll show up on the Pacers bus Don't take a chance with an No degree required. Call ORIGINAL Student-Run Group Sat. Will we see you there? unkown agency or some 1-800 Asst Prin Vicky Thomas, House for Rent will hold 1st Meeting and Movie 
FOR SALE
number. Limited space available, so 243-7145. Two Blocks from Campus Night of 1998onTHURSDAY, I kick alcibities butt in MOO book now' 4-5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for 1/22 at 7:30pm. Anthony Travel, Inc. '"'Interested in Making Extra Summer, August for Fall. Bouncey Lafortune Student Center Money"" Includes Dishwasher, Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM, Calllnfo-line at 236-9661 for Bouncey 631-7080 Large Physical Therapy Practice Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard.and Color monitor includes carrying details and location. Bouncey... 
· looking for students to make off-street Parking. case, manual, etc. 
Follow-Up phone calls to see how MONITORED SECURITY Call Greg @288-2654 And my first act after I take over the Spring Break '98 our patients are doing. Filing and SYSTEM INCLUDED!!! ADOPTION IS LOVE world... Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & computer entry also available. Flex. Call 289-4712 Happily married ND Alumni couple, Flonda. Group Discounts & Free Hours. Call Gerard or Doug Now! with adopted 3 year old daughter, To kill those who: Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash "'233-5754'" Cannon Bubblejet 200e, new car­wants to shower new baby with a) Decide to stop and have a con­& Go Free! 1 Bed room furnished apt in a tridge, $90obo. Italian drafting table, love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic versation in the middle of dining hall 1-800-234-7007 home in good residential area. $80, adj. drfting chair, $85. Chris lawyer dad, and a sister to play high traffic zones www.endlesssummertours.com Need child care 30 hrs/wk. 10 mins from ND. Share kitchen. 631-9795. with. Friends on the swingset, trips b) Those who walk FIVE across the 
Must have transportation. Security system. to the zoo, grandma, play groups, sidewalks 271-1935 No smoking,drinking or partying. lullabies, too. This is a home where c) Anyone else who generally 
.. 
Postgrad student or faculty only. Brass bed, queen size with deluxe wishes come true. We'd like to get annoys me... '"ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO $ 400 per month. Security deposit orthopedic Mattress set and Frame. to know you. Call Shawn & Meg RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR Attention $250, References required. New, never used, still in plastic. 800-767-4257. My favorite thing is when people SPRING BREAK. GROUP DIS­Soph.IFr. Girls: Call277-0189 after 3.30 pm $250.00 219-862-2082 Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. you know don't talk to you for COUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE. LEAD SINGER ••••• weeks. Yeah. That's cool. 
LEISURE TOURS HAS PACK­WANTED For Sale: Convenient Condo living The Saint Edward's Hall Players AGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT I am a Soph. Rhythm Guitarist 2 Bedroom 2nd Floor Apt. $450/ just a few blocks from Notre Dame. present: Rhinoceros "Honor not happiness" is wrong but FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH with ORIGINAL songs looking to mth. Short term 6 mth. lease. View 3 bdrms., 2 full baths and access to Thurs. Fri, and Sat will alwats be cooler than "unearned PADRE ISLAND. start POP/ROCK band. Must love of St. Joe river from 2nd Fir. porch. clubhouse with pool and work out Washington Hall Unhappiness." 1-800-838-8203. all Top 40 kind of stuff. 1906 historic home, security sys­room. Corner unit with Tix $3 at Lafortune or at door WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM tem, walk-in closets, storage, off­Contemporary flair. Call Trace Cole Just for a minute let's all do the 
Call Dan @ x 0817. street parking. Gas, electric, at 243-9565 for more info. Hugh Troy, a student at Cornell, got bump. phone, and cable by tenant. Call hold of a hideous old wastebasket Greg @ 288-2654 with a real rhinoceros foot as its Angela Ball is now 21. Watch out
TICKETS
Long Dis. Call for 19c/min 24 hr ADVERTISING SALES INTERN­base. He filled it with weights and South Bend. We're in for some For a FREE rechargable card SHIP tied 30 feet of clothsline to it. He CRAZY times. send stamped envelope to Box University Directories is hiring stu­ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR WANTED· ND vs MIAMI B-Ball tix and a friend carried it onto campus. 681, Notre Dame, IN 46556 dents to sell yellow page advertis­FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND on 2/22. Lower arena. Every few feet they lowered it into Break it down. 
ing for the official campus tele­OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 258-1111 the snow, their own footprints so far phone directory this summer. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 away as to raise no suspicions. The Look at page 17. I pulled that one
ILOST & FOUND I 
Commission based pay structure. MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. ALAN JACKSON TICKETS next morning someone noticed from out of nowhere. Training program. Excellent sales & 243-0658. FOR SALE 277-1659 prints and summoned professors. 
Missing: WRISTWATCH marketing experience. Call1-800-They followed the rhinoceros Kessler needs 6 hours for 6 inches. lost just before semester's end 743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.uni­Pacers v Callies Game tracks. The trail led out onto a And even when he gets it there, its Fossil · leather band/white face versitydirectories.com 8 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT Sat Jan 24 frozen lake which connected to the still no good. 
Please call Nicole @ 0565 SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 Tickets on sale to all classes at LaF school's source of water. There the 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY· info desk until 1-23. tracks ended in a large hole. IT is I have to leave this place sometime. Lost: Gold and silver wristwatch. Models needed for figure drawing $35 for ticket, bus, lunch said that half of the population Huge sentimental value. If found classes in the art department. 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR Buses leave Stepan 3pm stopped drinking water. The other This is the commander. That is all. call Becky x4215. Please call: 631-7602. NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 LAST CHANCE!! half swore the water tasted like rhi­
noceros. 

.. 
-
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
tS• accepting applications for: 
1998-1999 
Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required . 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 23, 1998. For additional information about the position or application process, con­tact Brad Prendergast at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
Thursday, January 22, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• NFL 
Sanders wins Player of Year 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Barry Sanders, who ran for 2,053 yards this season, also ran away with the NFL player of the year award. 
Thn Detroit Lions star received 81 percent of the votes in a poll of more than 200 sports writers and broadcast­ers. the highest winning margin in the nine-yrmr history of the award. 
"It's great to top ofT such a wonderful year with this award." Sanders said Wednesday. 
lie broke a two-year hold on the award by Green Bay's Brett Sanders became the third Favre, who won with 77 per­player to rush for 2,000 yards cent of the votes last year, a in a season, and his total was high until Sanders' landslide. second highest in league history 
Sanders also was nominated behind Eric Dickerson's 2,105. for the honor in 1991 and 1994. Sanders also set an NFL This year. he outpolled finalists record with 14 consecutive Favre. John Elway and Terrell games of more than 100 yards Davis of Denver, Jerome Bettis rushing. That streak began 
of Pittsburgh, and Dana after he gained just 53 yards Stubblefield of San Francisco. rushing in his first two games. 
Last month. Sanders and He became the first player in Favre shared the MVP award in history to rush for 1,000 yards balloting by an Associated in nine straight seasons ­Press panel of 48 reporters. which spans his entire NFL 
career. 

A Pro Bowl selection each year since he came into the league, Sanders moved into second place on the league's all-time career rushing list behind Walter Payton. Sanders has 15,647 yards and Payton 16,726. 
Along with the award, a check for $30,000 was present­ed to Sanders for his favorite charity, the Greater Wichita Youth Football Program. 
"This makes me very happy; that's where I played when I was young," he said. 
Friel 
continued from page 20 
points. 
"I knew the team needed some kind of spark, so all I wanted to do was come off the bench and provide it," said Friel. "I just wanted to find some kind of rhythm. Fortunately, I found my zone and kept getting the ball. The rest just kind of took care of itself." 
Entering the game with a 15­2 record and ranked 15th in the nation, Jim Boeheim's squad has lived off its stifling zone defense all year long. So natu­rally, the Orangemen figured their defensive strategy would have its way with the hot and cold Irish Wednesday night at the ACC. 
That's when the zone defense's worst nightmare steps in. Heading into the game with · the league's second best shoot­ing percentage from behind the arc at 45 percent, Friel simply tore apart the heart and soul of the Syracuse basketball team. 
"He's a zone buster," said MacLeod. "He can shoot like you wouldn't believe. And he picked a good night to ring the bell for 30 points." 
"Friel made just everything," said Boeheim. "We didn't do a good job of finding him; we 
page 13 
knew he was a good shooter. When you play a zone defense, you are going to run across guys that get hot. You have to give him a lot of credit." 
So does the entire Notre Dame basketball team. As Garrity pointed out, it was the best an Irish team has looked over the past four seasons. Although there have certainly been some tremendous memo­ries over the course of the Garrity era, last night stands a cut above the rest and will for­ever be remembered in Notre Dame sports lore. 
"Pat is there for us game in and game out," said Friel. "We all just go out and try to help him out a bit. It means a lot to me that this was big moment for him as well as the rest of the team. I hope it will be remem­bered for a long time." 
Friel, who has drawn compar­isons to Hyan Hoover and Pete Miller in his short time at Notre Dame, watched his eighth and final trey bounce high above the rim before finally falling through the net. It was good enough to break Hoover's school record for three-pointers in a game. 
"I guess it was what they call a shooter's roll," Friel laughed after the game. ''I'm only a sophomore. Hopefully, that record will be broken again." 
Garrity wouldn't want it any other way. 
Use Observer Classifieds 
ove, Mom & Dad Holly & The Champ 


DIGGER PHELPS 
BASKETBALL FOR DUMMIES 
Published by /DG Books 
SUNDAY • .JANUARY 25 • 2:30 P.M. 
Meet Richard "Digger "Phelps, retired basketball coach from the Univcrsity ofNotre Dame, and ESPN commen­tator for College Basketball here at Borders this afternoon. ND bac;ketball ticketc; and mini basketballs & hoops will be given away. Ba,ketball for Dummies-the fun and easy way to explore basketball---from High School and College Hoops to the NBA.ll1is is amust lx1ok for all basketball 
coaches and fJns.  
MISHAWAKA  INDIANA  0  4230 GRAPE  ROAD  0  AT  THE  
CORNER  OF  GRAPE &  DAY  RD.  
(219)  271-9930  

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 22, 1998 
• VOLLEYBALL 

By BILL HART 
Sports Wrircr 
It was a match that was simi­lar to many for thP Notrl' Dame volleyball tPam. Facing one of thl' top tl'ams in thr. nation, the Irish wnre !wavy undnrdogs to advance to the fir.ld of eight and a match closer to a trip to Spokane and an invitation to the Final Four. llownw~r. the Irish put up orw of thr.ir most extra­ordinary niTorts of the season in a four-game loss to Wisconsin, 15-9, 12-15, 16-18, 11-15, dur­ing the Central Hegion semifinal match of the NCAA Tournamnnt. 
In the first game, the Irish shocknd thn huge crowd rooting for the homn team by making quick work of thn Wisconsin deftmsP whiln their offense took control. Snnior hittnr Jairnie Lne startPd ofT strong for the Irish, 1·.onverting seven kills with only one error. The score was knot­tl~d at 9-9 bPI'orn a Badger error and an ace by Boylan startnd a 6-0 run to win the gamn. 
Dnspitn being down early, Wisconsin regained their com­posure quickly. Notre Dame held a lead of 12-9 in th1~ second game before Wisconsin went on a rally of thnir own. tying the game on a kill from sophomore KPlly Kennedy. The Badgers then took the lead off of a joust at the net with sophomore Mary LeiTers, and coasted on to tie the match at onP game apiece. 
In game three, Wisconsin jumped ahead 10-6 before senior hitter Angie Harris had seven straight serves, including two aces, two kills by Leffers, and a kill from the backrow. The Irish served two game points. but the Badgers came back to tie the game at 14 otT a backrow attack. Lee converted two more kills to set up another game point, but the Badgers tied the game again and won the game by two straight kills from sophomorn Alyson Hoss. 
In the final game, the Irish took the first two points, but an 8-0 run by the Badgers caused the Irish to fall behind quickly. Notre Dame then closed the gap to 11-9, but Wisconsin then scored the next three points. The team battled back from three match points, but were unable to gain enough momen­tum to mount a comeback. 
"It was a really good match, very competitive and very close," head coach Debbie Brown said about the loss. "The team played very well. and I think they were pleased with how they did, but at the same time I think they were disap­pointed by how close they almost came to beating them." 

The Observer/Joe Stark Middle blockers Lindsay Treadwell and Mary Letters helped lead the Irish to No. 18 in the final polls. 
YO SANDERS! 
Happy 21st 
Stay out ofjail! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Debbie, een, Dr. Laura and ... Whatshername from 
Dubuque 
The Irish were led once again by Lee, who ended her career at Notre Dame on a high note. Against the Badgers, Lee scored a career-high 31 kills on a team­best .338 hitting percentage. Harris also ended her career with 17 kills and a match-high 23 digs, while junior Lindsay Treadwell chipped in with 14 kills on .353 hitting. Lefl"ers had 10 kills and five blocks while freshman setter Denise Boylan carne up with 15 digs and four service aces. 
The Badgers improved to 30-2 on their season, extending their streak to 18 matches while advancing to a regional final against Florida, another team which the Irish faced earlier in the season. 
With the loss, the Irish ended their season at 25-9, and were ranked 18th in the final AVCA top 25 poll. Notre Dame was the only team in the top 25 that began the tournament unranked. 
After the regular season was over, five Irish players were honored with postseason awards by the various volleyball associations. Lee was named to the GTE Academic All-America second team, selected annually by the College Sports Information Directors of America. She is one of only three Notre Dame volleyball players to achieve this status. Lee was also recently named by Volleyball Magazine as an hon­orable mention on their All­America squad. In another release by the American Volleyball Coaches Assocation, Lee, along with Harris, Leffers and Boylan were named to the 12-player All-District I team. Lee was one of only six players in the country to receive these honors for the third time, while Harris was named for the sec­ond time in her career. 
''I'm not really surprised by all the awards," Brown remarked. "Jaimie is a great player and a great student. The four all-dis­trict player awards were also very well deserved. They all had very good seasons." 
In the same release. the A VCA also named Brown as the District I coach of the year. She has been named district/regional coach of the year three times in the past six years, as well as conference coach of the year honors in six of the past 10 years. 
The end of the season also marks the conclusion for the seniors. Over the past four years, Notre Dame's Class of 1998 has amassed a 107-32 record and four appearances in the NCAA Tournament, includ­ing two trips to the regional round. The senior class also contains what could possibly be described as one of the finest combinations in Irish history, in the form of Harris and Lee. The duo concluded their careers as Notre Dame's all-time kill com­bination leaders, tallying a com­bined 3,023 kills. 
"I don't think I could ask for anything more of them." Brown said about thn snnior class. "They providnd very good lead­ership. and definitely played very well. ThPy playPd their best at the end of the season, and that's what a good voiiBy­ball team nePds to do. 
"It's going to be difficult to replace those players. Our schedule next season will bn hard, especially early on. However, I think our record next season will be eomparahiP to this one. Our goal has benn to improve on last ynar's results." 

Be a part of one of NO's best traditions. 
Applications are auailable in the SUB office, 2nd floor Lafortune 
--------~--~ ------~~~~----~----~------­
--,~~--­
Thursday, January 22, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Boston drives to save Fenway 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
!\ grassroots organization Wednesday began pushing for the Red Sox to expand Fenway Park. rather than move to a nnw stadium. and a poll of voters found support. 
The two developments fol­lnwed a report that the Red Sox are considering a plan to add seating behind the first­and third-base lines of the existing stadium, expanding the playing field and adding seats to the biP-acher section. 
!\ grassroots campaign called Save Fnnway Park! announced that it had been contacted by 200 residents and businnsses and set up a Wob site in support of keeping Fenway whern it is. 
"We want to help ensure 
that future generations have the opportunity to partake in one of America's greatest sporting pleasures: attending a major league baseball game in Fenway Park," said Bill Steelman, the group's leader. 
Expanding Fenway, which opened in 1912 and was rebuilt in 1934, is estimated to cost about $250 million and take about three years to complete. 
If the stadium was renovat­ed, rather than replaced in another location, a new park­ing facility probably also would have to be built over the adjacent Massachusetts Turnpike, The Boston Globe reported. 
The construction would take place in phases dur_ing the off­season and would not inter­fere with games. 
Also Wednesday, the Beacon Hill Institute at Suffolk University released the results of a poll that showed taxpayer support for keeping Fenway where it is. 
If the Red Sox were to receive public funds for a new stadium, the survey showed, voters by a three-to-one mar­gin preferred to renovate Fenway rather than to build a new stadium. 
Seating capacity at Fenway Park is 33,871, the smallest in the major leagues behind Chicago's Wrigley Field, which has 38,884. 
Fenway and Detroit's Tiger Stadium share the distinction of being the oldest baseball stadiums. Both opened April 20, 1912. A new Tiger Stadium is under construc­tion. 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 23rd FROM 9:00AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 


Don't 

Weigh 
This Offer Too Long! 
TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CTR. MJSHA W AKA, IN 46545 254-0460 



Called home lately? 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
--------~-----~-~-------..--~----~--~--~--~-~--~--~~-------------------------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 22, 1998 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING 
Walk-on Linda Gallo swims her way to the top 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
SportS Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swimming team has a Hudy of its own. Senior Linda Gallo, who walked-on the team as a freshman. has beeome one of the most prolific swimmers in Notre Dame history. 
"I wanted to come to a pro­gram wlwrc I would be in the middle of the team so I could work my way up to the top," Linda reealled. "Notre Dame was a pcrfcet fit." 
Gallo has certainly done just that. 
Gallo made the transition !'rom backstroke in high school to l'rnestyle at Notre Dame. and a smooth transition it was. She imrnediatnly lit in and won eight dual mnet events as a freshman, primarily as a sprinter. 
Sophomore year presented new challenges for Gallo when 
Notre Dame Women's Swimming Schedule 
Jan. 30 6 p.m. 
at Bowling Green 
Jan. 31 1p.m. 
at Michigan 
Feb. 18-21 TBA 
at BIG EAST 
Feb. 28-Mar. 1 TBA 
SHAMROCK CLASSIC 
Mar. 19-21 TBA 


When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Staffing, P.O. Box 655 474, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75265. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 
she began to swim distance freestyle. 
"I like the longer events bet­ter," Gallo explained. "There is more strategy involved. When you dive in, you have five, 10, or 15 minutes to pace yourself and race against those next to you." 
That year she was choosen as a co-recipient of the Most Valuable Athlete award, given to the most outstanding swim­mer on the team. Gallo helped lead the Irish to a third place finish at the Big East Championships where she fin­ished third in the 1,650 freestyle. During the regular season she earned four victories in the 1.000 freestyle, three in the 500 free, and two more in 200 free. 
llowever, Gallo was not satis­fied with her accomplishments. "I always want to do the best l can," she explained. "l know each time I dive into the water I can improve." 
Gallo showed dramatic improvemont her junior year, taking second at the Big East Championships in tho 200 frnestyle in a school-reeord time of' I :50.48. She also took sec­ond in the 500 freestyle and swam on four of tho five medley t!~ams that captured two firsts and two seconds. Gallo played a key role in Notre Dame's come-from-behind victory over Miami to claim its first-ever Big East Championship. 
So far this year, Gallo has been an extraordinary per­former in the pool. Her reeord­setting year has earned the Irish a 6-0 mark in dual meets and they now find themselves ranked 24th in the Speedo CSCA Top 25 thanks to Gallo's out­standing swimming. 
"This year, I'm a lot more confident," she commented_ "When I get up to race I'm con­fident that I can win the race. That has made a big differ­ence." 
Already this season, Gallo has broken four sehool records, won six invitational events, along with 12 dual-meet events, including five this past week­end. She now holds school records in the 200 freestlye (1 :50.1 0), the 500 freestyle (4:50.44), the 1,000 l'reestyln (9:56.34), and the 1,650 fmestyle (16:34.43). Gallo eap­tured two of these records this­past weekend in dual meets with Illinois~and Miami and she still has some of her best swim­ming lel't. 
She has already qualified to swim at the NCAA. Championships in Mareh and is eonfident that the Irish ean repeat as Big East Champs next month. 
As team eaptain, Gallo has earned the respect of' her team­mates. "She is amazing," l'resh­man frenstyl1~r Carrie Nixon explained. "She is really inspi­rational and she makes tlw rest of us swim better." 
.Junior Brittany Kline also praised her teammate: "Evnrytinw she dives into the pool. you know she is going to do something inerndible." 
Gallo set out "to work her way to the top." She has donn just that while emerging as one of Notre Damn's premier swim­mers. 
----~-~~---~-----~-~ ··-~-· ·~---.~~ 
Thursday, January 22, 1998 The Observer • CLUB SPORTS page 17 
Reaching forward: A club sport in name only, the dedica­tion and strong play ofteam members is truly a varsity effort. -Photo by Bnzndon Candura Club water polo treads at ND By TIM CASEY Sports Writer Wlwn describing water polo. men's tri-raptain Will McCarthy, says "it's like sorrm· and basketball but unique in its own way." Earh tnam consists of six field play­ers. who play both dnfnnse and offense, and a goalie. They are broken into four positions: two flats. two wings, a point and a holn man. The hole man is the most important position. lie is comparable to a center in baskntball who usually receives a pass from the point and then decides -in a split seeond ­to shoot or pass to an opnn teammate. Womnn's team tri-captain Erin Fitzgerald is a hole man. "There is usually an opponent on my back, neck and shoulders all game," she said. Wat!~r polo is a very physieal and tir­ing game. For example, on a typical tournament weekend consisting of four The Observer/Brandon Candura to five games the players swim about The fast-paced action and extremely physical play of water polo make it the fastest game in the pool. I 0 miles and may lose up to eight pounds. prevent serious clawing. ting up tournaments. Other key con­center all year long. They consist of A game consists of four seven minute The men's season lasts from the first tributors include Ed Rose, Frank Nash swimming about 2,000 yards a day, and goalies Mike Megall and John various drills like shooting and passing " . quarters and lasts week of September through the last ,r·t:::-9;'~ about an hour. week of November. They are members Sample. and a half-hour scrimmage at the end ., · The players of the Collegiate Water Polo Sophomore Matt McNicholas was of practice. All Notre Dame or Saint Association (CWPA) and ended the sea­named the team's overall MVP. Mary's undergraduate or graduate stu­/" , .·" .,.-..­are not allowed to son with their best ever record at 17-2. McNicholas is an accomplished player dents, men or women, are welcomed touch the They finished the season 14th in the who is a member of the national junior to join. bottom of the nation. water polo team. McCarthy was the The first home tournament of the pool and The team is led by tri-captains law offensive MVP while Malone was year for the women is Feb. 20-22. All physical con­and MBA student McCarthy, senior named defensive MVP. students are encouraged to attend to \ tact is a pri­Dan Toolan and junior Pat Malone. The women's main season is starting see the talented Irish take on their / mary part of the The captains are elected by their team­now and continues through the spring. Midwest conference foes. game. The mates and act as coaches, They play, among others, women wear two are in charge the University of Michigan, suits because of the of scheduling Indiana University and excessive pulling and and mer­Northwestern. clawing and both chandising Team captains Fitzgerald arid arc and seniors Sarah JohnsonI ! men and women must clip their instru­and Charlene Budd lead the nails before mental young women's team, c a c h i n which consists of mostly-\ game s c t-sophomores and juniors. t 0 The starters are Jenn Beraneck. Erin Sackash,\ Molly Gleason, Katie McCoy, Carolyn Trenda, Fitzgerald and goalie Budd. In only their third year of existence, they finished 5th in the Midwest last year with Fitzgerald being '~~­named All-Midwest ··\.. and Budd, an All­'. Division s.election. l Practices are/"::. . Monday through Thursday nights from 8:30 to 10:30 Rolfs The Observer/Brandon Candura The men's fall season is followed in the spring by the play of the women.  

~­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 22, 1998 
• TRACK AND fiELD 
Irish run to the Class of 2002 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
SportS Writer 
Three of the nation's most talented high school seniors havn signPd national letters of intent with the Notre Dame track and field team. llead eross country and track and field coach Joe Piane announced that thrower Dore DeBartolo. sprintPr Liz Grow and distance runner Luke 
Watson  will  attend  Notre  
Dame in the fall.  
DoBartolo  is  the  third­ 

ranked high school discus thrower in the country. A prep star in throwing events at Hosary lligh School in Aurora, Ill., she broke the state discus record in winning the state championship as a junior. DPBartolo's career-best throw of 164'5" is the United St.ates Tmck Association national record for 16-year-olds. Her aeeomplishments have earned hflr <Ul invitation to train at the Olympic Training Center in August for the second straight year. 
DfiBartolo also excels in the shot put, javelin and hammer throw. 
"Doro DeBartolo will have an immediate impact on our women's traek and field team," said Scott Winsor, Nott·e Dame's jumping and throwing coach. "She is very talent(J(J and will score a lot of points for us in a numbElr of throwing events." 
Grow. a senior at New BraunfHis High School in Texas, won the state champi­onship as a junior in the 400­
.. 
meter run. Her career-best time of 54.20 seconds in the 400-meter run makes her the sixth-ranked junior in the U.S. (the level below the U.S. national team) at that distance. 
Notre Dame sprints and hur­dles coach John Millar, head coach of the U.S. women's national team for the 1999 World Indoor Track and Field Championships in Maebashi, Japan, said, "L.iz Grow is an outstlUlding, gifted runner who· will help us in the short sprints and certainly in the 400 meters. She definitely will be an impact runner at the B.ig East championships and at the NCAA championships." 
Watson comes to Notre Dame from Stillwater High School in Oklahoma, having won the individual state cross country championship and led Stillwater to the cross country team state championship. Written about in The Harrier magazine, Watson also fin­ished second at state as a junior. He should be a key force for the Irish in both cross country and distance events in track and field. 
"We expect Luke Watson to b~ among our top seven cross country runners in 1998," said Piane. "He will be one of the top fresh!;llen in the country next year. 
With their talent, these ath­letes will be looked to for immediate contributions to Notre Dame's track and field and cross country teams. They will add to the success of a program which producod 12 all-Americans last year. 
M. 8-Ball 
continued from page 20 
hit another three-pointer that brought the score to 15-12 Syracuse. 
The Irish took their first lead of the evening on Friel's fifth three-pointer to go up 28-27 with 5:46 left in the first half. The rest of the half was a battle that ended with a 38-36 score in favor of the Irish. 
"Basically, we did as good a job offensively as we could have in the first half," Syracuse head coach Jim Boeheim said. "But in the second half. we didn't get enough movement and did a very poor job of getting a good shot." 
The Orangemen only shot 27 percent in the second half while Friel's unstop­pable streak was aided by the strong performances of Garrity, freshman guard Martin Inglesby, and a great effort off the boards by junior center Phil Hickey. 
Boebeim realized the effect Friel was having on the momentum of the game, but admitted that his team could not find a way to stop him . 
"We knew he was a guy we had to be concerned about coming into the game," Boeheim comment­ed. "After he made two, we should have adjusted, but we never made the adjust­ment." 
The Irish maintained the momentum throughout the second half and within five minutes jumped out to a 17­point lead. Once Orangemen sharp-shooter Marius Janulis -who prior to the game Jed the confer­ence in three-pointers made -fouled out with seven minutes loft in the half, tho Irish were able to shut the book on the Orangemen and finish the game with a 20­point lead. 
The win makes the Irish even on the year in the con­ference at 4-4, 10-6 overall. The loss was the first on the road for the Orangemen, and their fourth loss of the season. 
"Overall, this was a verv good night for us," MacLeod said. "This is a key for us­to beat West Virginia, the 20th-ranked team, on the road and then beat the No. 15 team at home. This is an indication that when we're cooking, we're pretty good." 
W. B-Ball 
continued from page 20 
ized we could go inside a little hit more 
than we thought." 
The Irish took control of the game at tho end of the first hall' and nnded up kicking the Orangewomen out into the frigid central New York night. 
The Orangewomen pulled within tme point at 6:13 mark of tho first half on a Moore layup. Then, Notre Dame rat­tled oil' a 17-3 run that Hiley and Nide Ivey keyed. 
lvey started the run with a layup and Hiley scored six points in the stretch, which included a layup with eight sec-­onds left that gave Notre Dame a 48­33 halftime lead. Tlw run proved the crushing blow to the Orangowomen, who never got within 12 points during the second half. 
McGraw also crndited the play of senior Mollie Peiriek, who dished four assists while playing on a tender ankle. 
"She really shouldn't havn benn playing on tho ankle. but I felt that we had to have her l!)adorship in the game," McGraw said. 
But McGraw's postgarnn praise was mostly directed at number 00, whose dominance of the l'ronteourt was intn­gral for the Irish. · 
"I think Huth has rnally done a nie1) job in there, McGraw said. "It's vnry different than Katrina but just as ell'ec­tivn." 
Hall Social, foPmal, SYR & JPW Luncheon CommissionePs and Club PPesidenfs: 


January 22 at b:oo p.m. Lafortune Montgomery Theatre 
sponsort:d by Catering by Design, Risk Management and Safety and the Student Activities Office For more information, please call 631-7309 

Wo01en's Basketball d.AW.1111:· ,JOYC·Jill:
Saturday Jan. 24th 2:00pm vs. Providence 
to all students!! 

t TlU~K l'U.. GtYe SUMO A 
L.(Ti££ SHOT. 


~~-----~-~--------~-------------­
~-----­
Thursday, January 22, 1998 MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
The Observer • TODAY 
DAN S_ULLIYAN 

DILBERT 
I'D QUIT AND 5ECOME. AN ENTREPRENEUR1 BlJT I DON'T KNOW HOW 
THEY 1-\1\NDLE SUCH HUGE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Aver age guys 
1 lsra,'l to sorne 35 Plane capt. s ;mnouncement
9 Closet odurrmr 36 Just srmmer 15 Source of cubes 
down'" 16 illdiVICiually 
40 Krncl of beetle 17 Jazzy rhytt1m 41 Aerosol teclmrque 
42 Afrrcan 18 Four-wheeler antelope 
19 Promulgate 43 A four-star meal rt's not
20 Hybrrd 45 Med. center
22 Zregfeld ward
offerrng 46 Leaks
23 Na Na 47 lndran of 
24 Lrke sex southernsymbols 
Mexrco 26 Hrt bottom? 
49 Prefrx wrth 29 Italran monk handle 
30 Gulf war ally so Tuscany town 
52 Blow the JOrnt lawyer 54 Frat letter 
33 'LA Law 
ANSWER.TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
0 
" 
u 
~ 
c" 
... 
" 
... 
0 
u 
en 
57 Bart 
59 Syrnptorns of OIIIIS 
61 Operatrves 62 Battle of Brrtarn fighter 63 Dumas·s ·La Rerne 64 Work boot feature 
DOWN 
1 Heckle. rna way 2VIII 3 Plaintrve cry 4 Akihrto. e.g.: 
Abbr s Krnd of kid 6 Dr rector 
Kurosawa 1 Early com1cs name a Executive·s fashion credo 
9Wrlt 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WE GOT BOUGHT BY OUR A.RCI-\RIVAL 
TI-HS 1"\0RNING. 
THE.IR CEO SAYS 1-\£. 
PL~N5 TO BE /:>..C:, "HUf"\~NE" A5 POS5IBLE.. 

48 K1nd of knife 54 Voucher 49 English novelist 55 Parade honoree Carelli 56 "Uh-huh· 50 Vein­
58 lnflatronary 51 Swenson of suff1x "Benson" 
so Toronto 53 Absorbed Argonauts org. 
Answers to any three clues 1n thrs puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75.;: per m1nute). 
Annual subscriptrons are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
page 19 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: If somethin!! is perform­ing poorly today, check your work­ing style. Your current systems may already be m;tdatcd. Back up and revise while you still have time to do so. 
Taurus: There is a fine line between attraction and mpulsion, or lust and disgust. Act from the brain instead of from the lower regions of your anatomy. Anything you say today could be used against you later. 
Gemini: Your focus is intense today, and your involvement in a project is all-consuming. The deepP-r you go, the h1ss pleasant it may become. Your commitment is admirable, but know when to quit. 
Cancer: The noise and Pnergy of children follow you through your day. The spirit of transformation is on the move in your life. You are the initiator, the nurturer, and the free-floating friend all at the same time. 
Leo: Your behavior is not acceptable by community stan­dards. Let go of what is bothering you and try to repair the damage you have already done. You may have had a lapse. but you really do know better. 
Virgo: Today finds you in a powerful alliance with someone who shares your values. All the right things begin to happen with great speed and precision. The only imperfection is your hunger for more of the same. 
·••. I . .· ........ essiori .·····. 
Relationships, ServiCe and Careers" tonight from 6:30 to 8 p.m. atthe Center forSocial Concerns. This will be an interactive fun and humorous presentation. 
.Job F~ir ~ill he sport•
nt Services on Thursday from 1. .. ... .. .ao p.m.. . ..·~Sports Hetitage Hall on the secohd !eveI of the Joyce Center. Those interested should bring their resumes. 
Saint Mary's 
Chicken Nuggets Macaroni and Cheese 
. Green Beal)s . 
Asparagus ptJic~en 
Libra: Today you are thinking about money -specifically how to get more of it. Complex plans are prone to small but tragic flaws. Work on a smaller scale until you know what you are doing. 
Scorpio: Your theme for the day is renewal. Purge your life of the things that have been slowing you down or dragging you in the wrong direction. By this time tomorrow you may no longer rec­ognize yourself. 
Sagittarius: A sense of unex­plained mystery hovers through­out your day. It may or may not be real or easily solved. Ignore it for the moment. Act on these feelings tomorrow if you still have them. 
Capricorn: Today you lind that who you know is at least as impor­tant as what you do. It is limP-to harvest some of those friendships you have cultivated to further your career. There is currently no room in your life for the random. 
Aquarius: You have been gP-t­ting stuck in the rut of your career track lately. Take your work ethic out of its business context and go have somP-serious fun. Play alone if others lind your approaeh too 
intf~nse. 
Pisces: Linear thinking will only take you down that same boring road today. Rules are made to be broken. Some of your strange ideas might actually work. once you convince others to try them on for size. 
t MJ ~ti*ray~Vachon 
eniors on "Balancing 
You join The Observer staff and Shirley will bring the bagels. 
-.. 
·­
10 To the left 11 "0 tempora. 0 moresI" speal<er 12 It's JUSt a racket to some 13 Decorator's shade 14 Where les yeux are 21 Optimal. as a 
bet 
23 Salon sound 
25 Truss 
26 "Land--,.. 
27 Alberto V05 rival 28 Wrnd instrument 31 A-test srte. 
perhaps 32 Some baby holders 
34 Saliva 37 Drop 38 Soul mate 39 Bar selections 44 Heartsrck (for) 

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, January 22, 1998 
• BASKETBALL 
Irish run away with two from 'Cuse 

Men's team knocks off another top-20 team 
Friel's fine play sparks Irish win over Big East rival 

By BETSY BAKER Assol"iar< Sports Fdiror 
OwrratPd'? 
Mayb1~. But don't be too quirk to knock Syracuse down from its top-20 pmlestal. 
The manner in which the NotrP Damn basketball team ran over the No. 15 Syracuse OrangemPn exhibitl~d flashes of brilliance that would 1wen give Coach K something to worry about. 
Actually, it was more like one flash of brilliance, and his name is Keith Friel. The sophomore forward set a new Irish record with eight three-pointers in Notre Dame's 83-63 upset last 
Results 
Notre Dame 83 Syracuse 63 
night. Friel broke former guard Hyan Hoover's record of eight en route to compiling a game­high 30 points. 

For once, Pat Garrity got to relax a littln. 
"I don't think I've ever snen anything like it," Garrity. who finished the evening with 21 points and 10 rebounds, said of his teammate's performance. "They kept leaving him open. I've kind of gotten a little used to it [being relied upon to lead the Irish], so I started to think something was wrong with me." 
Friel came into the game off the bench and lit up the Syracuse zone defense that had allowed the Orangemen to jump out to an 11-0 lead in the first three minutes of the game. 
"We had major problems early with the zone -we've had problems for three years with it against Syracuse -but with the help of Keith Friel. we were able to settle down." Irish head coach John MacLeod said. "lie's a zone buster. Any time you can get 30 off the bench, you're off to a good start." 
Garrity, who made his record 1 OOth consecutive start last night, finally got the Irish going with their first two baskets of the game, and three minutes into the game, Friel entered and drained his first three of the night to make the score 11­7 in favor of the Orangemen. A Garrity dunk pulled the Irish within two and after a couple of quick Syracuse baskets, Friel 
seeM. B-BALL I page 18 


Friel burns the Orangemen 
Guard steps up play, aids team against 15th-ranked Syracuse 
By MIKE DAY Sports Editor 
.. 
Pat Garrity certainly lived up to his billing. After all. the pre-season Big Easl player of the year did score his 21 points, moving past Tom Hawkins into fourth place on the school's all-time scoring list. lie even started his school-record 100th straight game for .John MacLeod's squad. 
But in a game Garrity called the best the team has played during his four year career. it was Keith Friel who stole the show. 
"I le had a tremendous game for us. I knew he eould do it-I've soon him do it in practic1-1," said Garrity, relishing the opportunity to share the spotlight. 
Trailing 11-0 with 16:52 left in the first half, eoach .John MacLeod. in obvious need of a spark, calmly signaled for Friel to enter the game. On the heels of a 1-for-H shooting performance in which it didn't look like he could hit water if he l"dl out of a boat. Frinl just wantml to make his first shot. 
And made it he did. 
Th1~ sophomore shooting guard eame off the bPneh to connect on a Notre Dame record eight three-pointers on his way to a career-best 30 
see FRIEL I page 13 
Riley scores per­sonal best, leads Irish to victory 
By PETE THAMEL The Daily Orange (Syracuse U niversiry) 
SYHACUSE 
Former Boston Celtic center 
Robert Parish has his number 
retired at the Fleet Center on 
Sunday. 
But the legacy of the Chiefs 
trademark number -00 ­
lived on at Manley Fieldhouse 
on Wednesday night. 
Center Huth Riley dumped in 
a career-high 29 points to go 
along with 13 rebounds in 
Notre Dame's 87-69 spanking of 
Syracuse. 
Orangewomnn
Results
"They really 
who attempt­
weren't double 
ed to stop
teaming me, 
Hiley. "And
Notre Dame 87 
said tho softspo­
al"ter shP
ken Riley, who 
caught it th1~re
Syracuse 69 
came into the 
was nothing 
game averaging '----------­
8.7 points per contest. The win gets the Irish (12-5) back on track after a loss at Boston College on Wednesday and bumps their conference record to 6-3. 
Notre Dame's tough man-to­man defense held the Orangewomen (10-7, 5:4) to a dismal 35 percent shooting from the field. Irish guards held SU's leading scorer, Teakyta Barnes to 15 points on 4-of-12 shooting from the field. 
While the Irish defense played tough all night, it was the unhu­man porformance of Hiley that had tho 754 fans leaving with their jaws dropped. Hiley hit 13 of the 15 shots shl' took, all of which were within fivP fPPt of the basket. 
"It's the culmination of a lot of hard work," Hiley said, that allowed her to have her bannPr evening. 
"I fen] pretty comfortabln in there," she said. "It's been a long period of loarning and I still have a long way to go." 
Hiley did not have to go very far on Wednesday, as Irish guards kept lobbing the ball to her on the post and she simply turned and converted the easy baskets. 
"Every time tlwy lobbed it to her she 1:aught it. evPn if slw was falling out of bounds," said Paula Moore, who was OIW or 
t h e 
we could do but stand straight up and try to get in hnr fa1:e." 
FeTiow fn~shrnan Kelley Siemon complimented Hiley beautifully on the blocks for tlw Irish. Siemon hit for 15 points on 6-of-1 0 shooting in just IIJ minutes. 
Exposing Syracuse's interior weakness early. Irish coach Muffet McGraw said, provnd key in setting the torw for the night. 
"We thought we had an advantage in size on tlw block." McGraw said. "That set us up for a good start, onee we n~al­
see W. B-BALL I page 18 

Men's Basketball 
Hockey 
Q)
vs. Villanova, 
at Bowling Green • Volleyball wrap-up 
Jan. 28, 7:30 p.m. 
Jan. 24, 7 p.m. 
~ 
see page 14 
Women's Basketball 
s" 
Swimming and Diving •• •Gallo leads women's swimming 
vs. Providence, 
vs. Depauw 
see page 16
Jan. 24, 2 p.m. 
'"'-' Jan. 30, 7:30 p.m. 
..e ~ 



