¦ Check out 'Cranium,' a new board game 
¦ In a trademark violation incident similar to the 
Friday

rhar combines the skills of trivia, charades and 
use of the ND logo, a gambling site has been forced 
a host of other random ment:11 pursuits. 
to remove the logo of the University ofNebraska. 
DECEMBER 4,

Scene • 12-13 

Outside the Dome • 2 
1998 


THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 62 WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 

Porn site pulls ND logo fallowing University order 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
New~ Ediwr 
An lntPrrwt pornography site which foaturnd a Notre Damn logo changed its f'ormat Thursday in r11spo11se to a ce11s1\­a11d-dcsist letter from tho University's (;111wral Coumml offic,i, which allegml lhat 1111• siln 1·0111miHnrl tradnmark inl'ri11gn11w11t. 
Tlw site rnaturns 11ud11 photos of' a young woman ca!IPcl 1.ucki who l'laims slw is a Notrn Damo sopl10111oro living in 1•ithcr 1.1,wis or Lyons llall. Tho logo appcarrd promine11tly with Lucki on the Web pagt•. 
The administrntor of the sitn was not authoriZ1!d to use Urn namn or logo, arrnrding to Bill Kirk. assistant vice pr1>sid1n1l !"or Htisidcinc11 Life. As of Thursday, tlw "Nil" had !men replacnd 
with an "SD" logo, prnsurnably a.n them that we know they're using our Now that the site has !men changnd, abbreviation !'or the "Sexy Dame" theme trademark and ordering them to remove the General Counsel's ol'lice will assess which is the focus of the revised page. the trademark." Hoyc·s letter is posted its satisfaction with the change and 
"ft has bocn brought to the (; n n e r a I 

Counsel's atten­
'ITHAS BEEN BROUGHT Lion." Kirk co11-TO THE GENERAL l'i rmc d. "The 
COUNSEL'S ATTENTION. THE 

usc of lhe Univorsity logo USE OF THE UNIVERSITY is a violation of 
LOGO IS A VIOLATION OF

the trademark law." THE TRADEMARK LAW•.' Assistant ,·ice president for 
on Lucki's decide if it will take legal action. page. Kirk would not comment on whothor 
While he the University is seeking confirmation of could not dis­the woman's status as a Notre Dame cuss specifics student, nor did ho say if the University or the case is investigating hr.r identity. because or the "I truly hope that this young lady is not attorney-client a student at the University. I look at this p r i v i ·1 e g e , as a real pastoral conco,.n," Kirk said. Hoye said that He refused to speculate ahout the in typical potential ramificalions for Lucki if she cast's of trade-docs attnnd Notre Dame. mark infringe-Lucki was contacted via e-mail but as 
the General BtLL KIRK ment, the of press time, she made no statement to 
Counsel's office ASSISTANT V/Cli PHJ,sml,NT FOR RHSI/JENCH UF/i party illegally The Observer. But rumors arn already Bill lloye said using the flying around campus as to her identity that a "cease and desist" letter was sent trademark has to confirm in writing that 
lo Lim site's administrator "informing it has done so. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

The more than five miles of tunnels under the Notre Dame campus house various pipes to heat buildings and fiber­optic wires used in phone lines and cable television connections. The oldest tunnels have existed since the 1800s. 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Nl"ws Fdirur 
Wlwn l'aul K1~rnpl' was a Notre 
I) a Ill I\ ll nctn r ~rad u atn in tlrn !()70s. Im had a koy. Thanks to his clad, tlw director or Utilities at llw t.inw, Kcmr1f had accflss Lo tho fiv«'-milc long series of twist­ing, turning tunrwls that runs under Notn• Dame's campus. 
"You'd think in Lhc winlt\r limn it would be a great place to go to and l'rom class," said Kcrnpl', now tlw chief eloctrical nnginl'N for Utilities. thl' dqrnrlnwnl mainly rnsponsi!Jlc for thn Lu111wls. "But it's dirty. dark. dingy. It's not made l'or pt:oplP Lo go through." 
In fact. tlrn six-foot-wirln bv Sl'V(lll-f'cnt-high lU11IH'IS wnre 1wv1!r intnndnd for 1woplo to usu lo lrav,:rsc th,1 campus in the dead nl" wi11tor. With tempera­
tures typically around 100 degrees and pipes and wires taking up almost two-thirds of the space. "there's hardly mwugh room for two poople to pass each othnr," Kern pf said. 
"Tim tunnels were put in as a menns of distributing steam to campus -to heat campus," he explai1wd. They sorvo as a con­stant path for the r.xchange of steam -to heat buildings ­and con<lonsatc. the liquid by­product ol' steam. 
In addition, all campus phone !inns. fiber-optic wires for Oil and telecommunication services, WNDU l'ibor-optics, thn !'ire alarm system, sof't-wuter pipes and pipes that hold compressed air to make thermostats work arn all contained in the tunnels. 
"You could bury this stuff dirnctly into 1hr. ground. but it's a lot harder to maintain and its 

expected life is much shorter," Kempf said. "It's a slightly high­er first cost !putting in tunnels!, but it's an infrastructure thing that goes in early when they dt'vclop a rww building." 
Kempf noted that some tun­nels near lllfl Main Building date back to the 1800s. Many of these older prototypes, which were made of brick with arched ceil­ings, had been abandoned and were filled this summer since bricks have a tendency to cave in and cause sinkholes in the land above them. More modern tunnels am made l'rom concrete and reinJ'orc(id steel and carry a $1,000-per-foot price tag. 
r~our main tunnels spawn other smaller ones that eventu­ally reach almost 90 pt'rct'nt of Notre Dame buildings. While 
see TUNNELS / page 4 
see LUCK!/ page 6 


CD-ROM used to recruit students, faculty 01e01bers 
By ANNE l\.1ARIE l\.1ATTINGLY 
Assistant News Editor 
Prospective members of the Notrn Damo community ­including graduate students and professors -am now able to get a ta-,te of the University through an informa­tional CD-ROM disk that has been available sincn tlrn fall of 1997, according to Bob Mundy, director of' Admissions operations. 
"It wasn't a strictly admissions nffort -we worn just a part of' it," Ylundy said. "Tho intnnt wasn't just lo usn it for prospectiv11 students, but also for graduate stuclonts and professors." 
The disc features six main catcgorins on tho opening screen -academics, athletics, intr.rnatio11al. studnnt lifo, spirituality and "Why Notrn Dame'!" Thorp is also a virtual tour of campus and video clips of students, pro­fessors and administrators speaking on aspects likn diversity, the first year of studios and the quality of oclu­
see CD-ROM I page 4 

~c)ftis is %tre cname·: 

-::~}i ~ 
(Out offive shamrocks) 
By ANNE MARJE MATTINGLY 
Assistant News Editor 

The words fade in from tlrn darknnss, as the theme song from "Hudy" plays in the background: This ls Notre Dame. 
The CD-ROM designed to recruit both studnnts and faculty contains a vast array of' information on almost anything a prospective may be looking for -from University president Edward Malloy's comments on the value of his freshman smuinar course to student tradilio11s lih tlrn Fisher llall Regatta. 
It is a visually stunning software package replete with specifics about acadmnic and student life at Notre Dame. But tho program's irritating sound glitches, misleading visual links and huge memory drain make this virtual tour no substi­tute for a personal visit. 
The disc's opening screen provich1s the user 
see REVIEW / page 6 

page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Friday, December 4, 1998 

¦ iNS!iJE Cm.UMN 


Christfllas Conspiracy 
Winter in South Florida. The daytime high temperatures plunge into the upper sixties, paralyzing cities and closing schools. People all over the state dust off their sweatshirts and cover their plants 
Finn Pressly
with garbage bags to 
News Copy Editor

ward off a frost. Those lucky enough to have heaters turn them on. filling the house with the dry musty smell of a year's worth of accumulated dust. Children bundled up like the Michelin Man go outside just long enough to pick up the newspaper, whose headline screams, "Brrr ... Jack Frost hits the beach!" 
It's also the time of vear whf'n th!' annual ChrisLmas Couspiracy" goes into effect. My theorv is that the· rest of the nation has con­spired against Floridians, Hawaiians, and Southern Californians by writing dozens of snow-related Christmas carol.s that are bound to confuse our children, hence lead­ing them to a life of violent crime. 
So, I propose that we band together and write our own warm-weather-friendly Christmas carols so that our children can spend more time being children and less time wondering what a chestnut is and why you would purposely set an open fire in your house. I think we need songs along the lines of "It's Beginning to Look A lot Like Christmas (Which Looks A lot Like June)." 
The only Christmas carol that didn't con­fuse us was "We Wish You a Merry Christmas," simply because: a) there are only eleven words to remember, and b) it doesn't involve riding a horse-drawn mode of transportation through a field covered with a mythical ice-like substance that falls from the sky during one of these so-called "seasons." The onlv time we Floridians brush with anything close to the Four Seasons is when the oldies station plays "Oh What a Night (December 1963)." 
Actually, that's not true. We have seasons every once in a while. Take 1976, for instance, when we had a raging snowstorm that lasted literally dozens of seconds. This was the last time it snowed in West Palm Beach, and quite a momentous occasion at that. Two years ago, there was a full front­page spread devoted to remembering the twentieth anniversarv of the "Blizzard of '76,~ which, judging by the photos, accumu­lated as much ice as a carton of ice cream does in a malfunctioning Frigidaire. 
As for myself, I had to wait until I came to Notre Dame to experience snow. I even got to make a snowman, which wasn't nearly as terrifying as "Frosty the Snowman" makes it seem. Think about it. A mysterious white substance falls from the sky, causing chil­dren to run outside and sculpt idols out of said material. These idols then come to life, and despite their obvious lack of legs, man­age to shuffle around town causing all sorts of wacky misadventures. The snowman theme recurs in several songs. The one l found most disturbing was the verse in "Winter Wonderland" where children pre­tend a snowman is something called a "par­son," who then proceeds to ask whether or not the children are married. They say, "no, man, but you can do the job when you're in town," whatever that means. 
Meanwhile, as temperatures inexplicably climb higher and higher here, weather fore­casters back home are boldly predicting the Blizzard of '98 may not be so far off. Maybe I'll finally get a White Christmas after all ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Anti-discrimination initiative gains support 
TAMPA, Fla. 
It's been less than two months since Betty Castor, president of the University of South Florida, proposed a statewide anti-discrimination policy on the basis of sexual orientation to Chancellor Adam Herbert. Although no official action has been taken, edu­cators, administrators and students across the state seemingly support the adoption of such policy language. 
Last week. University of Florida prC'sident John Lombardi publicly endorsed Castor's letter, a 43-page report sent Oct. 19. to Herbert. The package asked the chancellor if such policy language could be adopted at either the university level or through­out the State University System, 
"J think people would sincerely like to see an explidt policy adopted," Castor said. "The question now is whether there's enough authority for the institutions or the system to do 


UniveIBitY.ofSouthFlorida 

that." 

Castor sent the letter immediately following the death of Matthew Shepard, a University of Wyoming student who was beaten and tied to a fence. He died a week after the attack from his injuries. Shepard was gay. 
"No one should be killed over their sexual orientation, that's just awful," said Regent Welcom Watson, who spoke to student leaders at November's Board of Regents meeting about Castor's initiative. 
Though he said there has been no official dialogue between the regents, Watson said he thinks Castor's initia­tive is worth investigating. 
"I certainly think it ought to be con­sidered,'' Watson said. "We did not discuss it on a board level yet. 13ut I think they're justified and we should move forward." 
Though Florida statutes include sexual orientation within hate crime legislation. no language exists in the SUS anti-discrimination policy. 
Watson said he did not think dis­crimination based on sexual orienta­tion was a widespread problem. 
"I don't think we've ever had a problem like that iu Florida," Watson said. "But if it would prevent ever having one, I'm certainly for it." 
The university does not track instances of discrimination based on sexual orientatiou because tlrnre are no rules against it, said student body vice president Joenathan Jones. 
¦ U~JIVERSITY OF NamASKA Gambling site ends use of Husker image 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
After hounding from the University of Nebraska and an Atlanta licensing lawyer, an Internet-based company in Costa Rica ceased illegal use of the Husker name to mar­ket its Internet gambling operation. The university had accused the company, GoTo Entertainment, of cashing in on NU Husker fans' commitment to their team by offering Husker Casino -an Internet gambling site that improper­ly used the name so dear to many Nebraskans' hearts. But Wednesday, after receiving letters from the University, GoTo Entertainment closed down its Husker Casino Web site, changed the name and moved it to another site. Company officials would not return calls to the Daily Nebraskan, but they did return an e-mail with the follow­ing comment: "Based on the response from University of Nebraska, we have closed the huskercasino.com Web site. ... Do us a favor and apologize to the university -we did not mean any harm." 
¦ UN!VEf!SlTV OF TEXAS 
Underage drinkers may face parents 
AUSTIN, Texas 
The University of Texas is considering a policy change that would allow UT officials to contact the parents of underage students caught drinking on campus. The possi­bility of a change comes in response to an amendment in the Higher Education Act signed into law in October. The act amended the 1974 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, stating that colleges and universities now cannot be prohibited from "disclosing the final results of any disciplinary proceeding." Previously, schools could only release a student's records in a small number of cases. James Vick, vice president for student affairs, said the administration may inform parents about certain vio­lations -including drinking violations. " ... if a student has problems and future ones can be avoided by contacting the parents then this is a factor we will consid­er," he said. 

¦ BosrnN UN!\!ERSITV 
Expensive lobbying lands grants 
BOSTON, Mass. 

Boston University spends more money on lobbying than any college in the country, according to government statis­tics. BU spent almost $850,000 on lobbying in 1997, up 12 percent from $760,000 in 1996, according to the Center for Responsible Politics. "Lobbyists have worked for us principally for direct grants to benefit the university," said BU spokesman Kevin Carleton. BU tied Kraft Foods and USA Waste Systems, Inc., for the 11th spot on the list of top 59 contributors that contract out lobbying. No other college made the list. RJR Nabisco was No. 1. BU contracts out lobbying to Washington-based Cassidy Associates, the second-largest firm in the country. The university spent more than any of Cassidy's other 102 clients in 1997. Cassidy has secured about $56.5 million in grants for BU over the last 13 years, Carleton said. The most recent grant was for $29 million from the Department of Defense to build and staff the Photonics Center, Carleton said. 
¦ WABASH COLLEGE 
Junior slain in Paris telephone booth 
CRAWFORDSVILLE, Ind. 

Junior Blair Collings was brutally murdered in the early hours of Friday morning outside of his Paris apartment. The 20-year-old student from Rockville, Indiana, was studying in an off-campus studies program in France was stabbed in the throat while making Thanksgiving tele­phone calls. Collings, a member of Phi Gamma Delta fra­ternity, was participating in a year-long Abroad-Paris pro­gram sponsored by Hollins University. After calling his grandparents and then his father to wish them a happy Thanksgiving, he was speaking to a friend in Indianapolis when the attack occurred. Paris police, who were alerted to the incident by someone screaming, found Collings lying dead in a public telephone booth. Police found a kitchen knife nearby which they believe to have been the murder­weapon. The FBI is investigating with French authorities, but currently no suspect has been arrested. 
¦ Soun-1 Bmo Vt!EATHER ¦ NATiONAl WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon,Friday, Dec. 4. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
© 1998 AocuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Prtssure: 

, .
® © D EZl CT;] . ru [ill (:j: !~~~ ~ ·-· 
High I.Ow Showers Rain T~storms Flurries Snow lee Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Aspen 38 21 Detroit 56 44 Las Vegas 53 32 Boston 61 38 Fairbanks 11 -17 Los Angeles 60 48 Chicago 54 48 Fargo 35 28 Miami 82 70 Cleveland 57 45 Houston 76 54 Palo Alto 51 37 Des Moines 56 44 Lincoln 54 39 Topeka 60 46 

I 
I 
¦ rOOAY's sTAff  
Scene  
News  Sarah Dylag  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Kristi Klitsch  
Erica Thesing  Graphics  
Brad Untiedt'  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Bnan Kessler  Noah Amscadter  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Spencer Stefko  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of chc Assoc.iaccd Prc11.s. All reproduction righcs are rc::.crvcd. 

------~-._--~-----------------1:.'!!111--------------------......--._------------~ ...... .. 
Friday, December 4, 1998 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND to host humanities symposium 
Ky KATIE SANDERS 
News \'v'rircr 
NotrP Dame will host a day-long sympo­sium Saturday on research am! learning in llw humanilins. 
This symposium, llm first of its kind al Notre Dunw, will allow l'ucully and stu­dHnts l'rom Notre Damo, Indiana University-South Bend IIUSB) and Saint M,u-y' s Lo discuss a crucial issue in higher Pducation today. It is 1•s1wcially ground­brnaking in its effort to crnate a commu­11ity atmosphnre lrntw11en Notre Dame and IUSB, said .Julia llouthwaitu, associ­aLP profossor o(' Frnncll and organizer of thn symposium. 
"Tim two univ('rsitius havP not had much dialogu1i in thn past," said llouthwait11. "We want to end that." 
Tlw symposium will gather prol'essors, sluclnnts and con11nunity members to dis­,·11ss how to hnst kenp thn humanities al'loat in a linw of' budg:d cuts and stu­dnnt apathy. Liberal education is under altad in today's society, as nvidPncl'd by tlw 11u111bnr or studnnls turning to a morn markl'lablr• d1\g-rcP such as b11sinnss. l>outhwaitP said. 
Thn symposium consists of' two ses­sions TIii' morning s11ssio11. "Cult unLI App r o a c Ii 1\ s lo Eig h l n n n I. h -C n n tu r y 
French Studies," will have a scholarly approach with professors of different dis­ciplines discussing eighteenth-century France. 
The afinrnoon session, which runs from I lO 5 p.m., will hold more interest l'or students. In addition to insights from top professors, undllrgraduales will present tluiir vi11ws on the topic. Notre Dame stu­
'WE 
WELCOME STUDENT INPUT. 

WE ARE TRYING TO RESPOND 
TO STUDENT JNTERFSTS. How CAN WE 

RESPOND TO YOlJR INTERESTS Jf YOU 
DON'T TELL US WHAT THEY ARE?' 
JUUA DmrrHWAITE l'/iOlE\SOR Of·· FR!,NU/ 
dents Margaret Colleton. Joanna .Pee, Katie Keller, Ian MacKenzie and Chrislian Sabella will speak about lhflir class, "The French Hcvolulion: A Cultural /\pproach," at 1:45 p.m. There will also bn a rou11dtablu discussion for othor stu­dents to nxpress tlrnir views. 
"We welcome student input," Doulhwaite says. "We are trying to respond to student interests. How can we respond to your interests if you don't tell us what they are?" 

The last hour and fifLncn minutes of the symposium will be reserved for additional roundtable discussion. 
In addition to Doutlnvaiie, other sympo­sium organizers include David Lee Hubin, professor of French at the University of 
Virginia, Anne Vila, associate prol'ossor 
ol' French at the Univflrsity of Wisconsin, 
and Kate Jenson, associate professor of 
French at Lousiana State University. 

Doulhwaite and Hubin began collabo­
rating on the symposium last summnr 
when they edited a journal, "EMF: 
Studies in Early Modern Francfl, Volume 
6." Thoy wroto to professors asking them 
to express their views on the decline of 
culture studies and the lack of funds for 
th·e humanities. After editing this jour­
nal, they decided to stage a discussion on 
the Lopic and inolvc undergraduates. 

"We hope students attend," I>outhwaitc says. "It is a unique situation in which professors and undergraduates interact on an equal plane and discuss something that involves all of them." 
The symposium runs from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. at the Center l'or Continuing Education. 




Circle K sponsors weekend toy drive 
Spt'Ci:tl mThe Ohserver 
Notre• llanw is swampf•cl with SYH's and formals this Wt>PkPIHI, and that nrnans one thing: lots ol'gil'ts. 
NotrP llam1• C:ird1! K is sponsoring an SYH Toy DriVI' at all Llw dorms that have dances on !)pc_ 4 or !i. Tlw campus-widP service group will pul donaLion boxes in each dorm and 1•111'.ouragns dancegoers to put the gifts that Llwy would normally givn to their dates into tlrn boxns. Tlwsn gil'ts can Im nilber wrappml or unwrapped. 
Thosn who choose to contributn should not !'eel pul-out by the gesture or awkward about donaling their date's gill. according to .J. Doyln, the club's public rPlations olliccr. 
"It's not like you're not gotting anything out of it-you're giving a kid a better Christmas," he said. Instead of receiving something that they probably will not rmnember in a month. participants in the toy drive will gain a "sense or self-ful!illmenl and 
Christmas Spirit." 

BBAII IAGLI FA/411.~ BII.LIARDI 
Student Special--1/2 price ($I.SO/hr.) 3-6 pm Mon-fri. 
~• ."144ie4 ~ flue (#.I Ht4!e ~~rr,i: .. -­
c·:-,&"'" 
28 Tables (l. 8, 9. 1o. & 12 feetJ 
1202 S. Lafayette (go west on Eddy and go South on Lafayette) ph. 233-2323 

On Sundav aftPrnoon, Circln K will collect the girts a~d distribute them to different charitable organizations throughout South Bene!. The presents will go to impoverished child rnn to make their Christmas a liltln brightur. 
Circle K is a campus organization dedicat­ed to service to the South Bend community. It is the largest club on campus with 210 active members and 25 weekly projects. Last year, it was the largest of' the 590 Circle K clubs in the world. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 



~ESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00 p.m. Thursday, December 10, 1998 
Friday, December 11, 1998 Washington Hall 
Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students & Seniors Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office, 631-8128. 
Group to sponsor 'Allure' 

Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Asian Amorican Association will present its annual fashion and cul~ turn! show, "Asian Allure '98" Saturday (Dec. 5) at 
7:30 p.m. in Washington 
HaH. 

This year's show will include performances of traditional dances by the Filipino American Student Organization and the India Association. Wearing costumes by con­temporary designtirs, the dancers "will explore the inhirsoction h1;1twMm tra­diLi onal and mud11rn styles," according to Jason Leung, president of tho Asian American Association. 
Tickets for the show, $5 for general admission and $3 for students, muy be purchn.scd in advu.nee at Urn LaFortune Information Desk (631-8L28J. Tickets also muy be purchased on the night of the show for $5 tboth general admis­sion and students). 
Got CJ'lewsQ 

Carr ­
us. 

1~5323 

Need Cash?? ·Earn $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per 1nonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
---------------------------------..----------~---------------­
page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 4, 1998 
continued from page l 
some only contain pipe access, other buildings have direct access to the underground maze of tunnels, creat­ing a safety issue for the Utilities department. 
"For us, !direct access! is a major concern. You can get lust down there. There's hut pipes. Locks are checked, and we've made more efforts tu secure hatches, but there has been evidence of students who iet in," Kempf said. "It's one of those things that people say, 'I ran around in the tunnels when J was at Notre Oame."' 
George Molner. chief engineer at WNDIJ, rocalled a situation in which a group of Cavanaugh men were discovered to have wired cable television to their room via copper wires attached to TV wires in the tunnels that the station uses to provide campus with cable. 
"We followed the cable all the way from our wires oul a basement window. up a drain pipe and into these young men's room," Molner said. "When we found them, the Security department confisr,atcd tho copper wire and it was used in their Student Affairs hearing. Anyone who does it, we'll find you because there's always a trail." 
WNDU began using the tunnels in 1955 when the station was head­quartered at the current Center for Social Concerns. Copper wires and cables in the tunnels carried video and audio transmissions for the broadcasting of events from Notre Dame Stadium, the Center for Continuing Education and the field­house, where basketball games were held. In the late 1960s cable televi­sion wires were also installed cour­tesy of the station to nearly every building on campus. 
In 1981. when WNDU moved to its 
new station building on U.S. 31, 
fiber-optic wires were installed to upgrade the inferior copper. other technologies. including most Classrooms and dorm social rooms new ResNet and inter-building com­


Tunnels CD-ROM 
are directly linked to WNDU Channel puter and Internet connections 

16, cable TV sr,rvices and closed-cir­administrated by the Office of' continued from page I 
cuit programming through wall jacks 
in campus buildings. 
Now thanks to new technology, sig­nals can be transmitted from any­where in the South Bend area to a satellite rer,eiver on the roof of the Hesburgh Library. From there, they are sent via fibr,r-optic wires down through the building and the tunnels to the station building where they are 
'LOCKS ARE CHECKED, AND WE'VE MADE MORE EFFORTS TO SECURE 
HATCHES, BUT THERE HAS BEEN EVI· 
DENCE OF STUDENTS WHO GET IN. IT'S 
ONE OF THOSE THINGS THAT PEOPLE 
SAY, 'I RAN AROUND IN THE TUNNEf.3 

WHEN I WAS AT NOTRE DAME."' 
PAUi, KEMPF 
Cfl/EF ENGINEER FOi/ l/77ll11ES 
received as picturns and sound. 
"We're always in the tunnels since our technology is constantly being expanded and upgraded," Molner said. "And whenever somebody loses their cable TV, we have to gu down. Knowing where in the campus tho problem is can be hard with the close to five miles of tunnels down there." 
Station workers or contractors are responsible for installing and main­taining all WNDU tunnel wires and cables. The station foots the bill for those systems that it uses for broad­casting purposes while individual building budgets include funds to keep telecommunication wires in working order. WNDU television and cable TV technology is currently being installed in Eck Center and Holy Cross House on Douglas Hoad. 
The Notre Dame tunnels also house 
Information Technologies. 
"We have miles and miles of liber­optics down there. but we don't real­ly spend a lot of time down there," said OIT engineer .Joe Macura. "Once we install our wires, they're passive devices." 
Explaining that the tunnels provide a safer haven for computer wires than ground-burying would, Macura 
also noted his department's cost efficiency in utilizing the already constructed tunnels. 
"Where there wp,re no tunnels, for example, we had to put con­duits through the buildings, which is much more expensive. Plus ron­duits are more subject to construc­tion damage," he said. 
When workers do go down into the tunnels, according to Kempf, "we take pretty good precautions. 
"You don't go down there without letting somebody know that you're going down there. And you always carry a radio that can transmit out of the tunnels, so if you get in trou­ble -break a leg or something ­someone will get help to you," he 
said. 
With the current state of the tun­nels, using them as human walkways in the dead of winter is unlikely, according to Kempf. While Notre Dame does have one underground walking tunnel from tho Morris Inn to the Center for Continuing Education, the existing ones that transport steam heat and hold miles of wires will continue to be used in the current fashion. 
"With the current infrastructure. it's impossible to make these walking tunnels," he said. 
As for this winter, the closest stu­dents could get to traipsing to and from classes in the tunnels will be relegated to crossing over the patch­es of snow that will nrnlt from the tunnels' heat coming up through the ground. 

cation. 
Associate director of Admissions Paul Carney notes that the University already has a videotape tour and a virtual World Wide Web tour but sees the program, which he refers to as ''the third part of the package," as a way to reach more prospective students and faculty. 
"It's another way to get information to the people who otherwise wouldn't get our mes­sage," he said. "What you gain is another audience that doesn't havll access to tlrn Internet or video." 
The department of admissions sends the CO to prospective students and faculty on request, to high schools and to students who visit the University. according to Carney. 
"Our counselors know it's available. Some take it on the road to high schools," he said. "We ask them to view it .. and move it along so we can multiply the number of people who sec it." 
Carney believes that the major advantages of the program are its vast amount of infor­mation and tho ability of individuals to learn about what interests them. 
"You can kind of wind your way through your own little tour of Notre Dame," he said. noting that people like being able to view the CIJ at several sittings instead of all at once. "J think it has a good range of ... senior adminis­trators, faculty members and students which I think is a good thing for people to look at," ho continued. 
"You can get a tremendous amount of infor­mation on there," Mundy agrend. 
But Carney noted that once the CD is pro­duced, it cannot be updated like an internet site can be. 
"You're trying to recycle tho information, but it does get out of date. It's not like the web, which can be updated constantly." 
He does not, however, see this disadvantage as a major problem. "People don't expect it to be 100 percent accurate," he said. 
The program runs on both Macintosh sys­tems and PCs using Windows 95/NT or Windows 3.1, and all required software (including QuickTime and Adobe Acrobat) is included. 

r.-------:, 
1Anytime Special I I 1 Large I 1 Topping Pizza I 
: $699 : 




L-------' 
Saint Mary's 
271..7272 



{t;~~~R«il
Your Place-for 



Brain Food for Finals Week! 

Come in to study! Or for a Break! 
Hours: 
Mon thru Thurs: I I a . m . -1 a. m .1 Fri thru Sat; 
11  a.m.  -3  a.m.  
Sunday:  
12  p.m.  -1  a.m.  

r:---------:,
1Anytime Special I 
I  2 Breadsticks  I  
I I  s500  I I  
I  I  

L-------' 
ND store 
271-1177 




r------, r-------,
I Lunch Special 1 I Late Night I I Small 1 Topping I I Special I I Pizza plus coke I I 1 Large Cheese I 
I $=00 I 

I $574 I
I ~ I 

!additional topping only $1.25 ea. ~
._ ______ _.


L-------' 

Visa/Mastercard Accepted 


Friday, December 4, 1998 
¦ \tVORLO NEWS BRIEFS 
Utah pipeline blast injures 
construction workers 
MOAB 

,\ I0-inch natural gas pipolino exploded north of' Moab this morning, damaging a roadway and sPnding up a mushroom­shapud cloud, hut 1warliy work1\rs 111,uHtgPd to Ps1·1qw sPrious injury. Davn llutchinson, (irand County administrator. rnnfirnwd that 01ily onn pm-son suf't'NNI minor injuries. KUTV n·portf'!' Jim Mattingly. who was on th(• sn•.111•., dPscrilwd tlw blast as "similar to a s111all 11ud1•ar «ixplosion" which sent Lhe !'loud aloft thal drif'lnd 1•astward. /\ spokns­worn,rn !'or Four-Four Conslruclion, who clndirwcl to giv1\ lwr IHLIIW, said IIH\ company was installing a natural gas lirw !'or D. Willia111s Compani(!S wlwn lhc explosion happP11Pd. Slw said she was not authorized lo givP a causP for the nxplosion or say how 111a11y Plllployties w1•n• i11volvml. but did say flH• workPrs Wl'l"P all acrounlnd for aft1!r­ward. Moab polin· initially said at least 20 pt•oplP wPrn injurnd. 
Yacht takes off on its own 
DAVIE, Fla. 

It wasn't vandals or bumbling boat thieves who lirnd up tlw m1gines on a 70-foot yal:ht a11d st•nl it zooming across the harbor, smashing snveral oth(•r vessels and a marina. No. inV{!Stigators say, the yacht slarwd ilsnlf' up. The inc.idm1L causml $7 mil­lion in damagP. "!\ vast array of experts rnrnf'ully illSJHH'.lnd Lim yacht's engines and mnchanical compo1wnts," Kirk Englehardt of thP Broward County ShNilT's Officn said WPdrwstlay. "Tlrny found evidnnce thal the Pngi1H\S startPd 011 tlrnir own and snnt the boat r.arnt•ning ac.ross thn channel." Policu originally assunwd tlH\ :\Jov. 15 smash-up was a tlwfl gorw wrong. 
Orphanage fire kills 28; 
most victims children 
MANILA. Philippines 

Trapp1!d behind molal winduw grat!is, d1ildrPn srreanwd for h1dp as Urn 11ames drmv doser. Neighbors frantically tugged at tlw padlockPd main gate but could not bruak i11. Tht• result was a tragedy. A pre-dawn ffrp Lorn lhrougl1 an aging orphanage in Manila on Thursday. kitling at lfrnst 28 peo­pl<,, mostly <·hi!drnn. Two other childrnn WNI! missing and presumed dead. lnv1•stigalors said faulty nlectrical wiring may have triggm·ed tlm hlazn. The dozens of d1ildrP11 al Llw Catholic-run Bahay Kalinga orpha11ag1i had been looking forward to a Christmas party on Friday. Instead, the 
Christmas docorations were scattered, along with toys and childrmi's dotlrns, among the hurrnid debris. 
Market Watch: 12/3 

Dow 
A\IEX: 
653.53

]ONES 
0 
-fi.41 Up: -184.86 Nasdaq: 1148 2003.75 40.88 
NYSE: 
Down:
56J.45 
1112s
-U4 S&P 500: 1150.14 
Compoi;itc
-21.11 
Volume: 
970.411,760

8879.68 
VOLUME LEADERS  
! !~~11·-~~:1  LU. LLH  n,I i 111~~11  Sklltl  l'lil~ ~  
UHt1l"A{l UlMPlrt I.It KXK INC Ill I ~ l U~U'll fl·Jl  Ll'll l.(;111 Ill.II  ·O.~l-Ln .i.-4'.f  •U,H-175 .o..snoo -2.112~  .Hd?S H.K?5 6J.M75  
1~11.J.(OIIJ' UHi.iN(; 11\A Nt.lWOrrn~ INI'  INH JlA llSAI  .t,ljH .~ ..u~ 'J,.59  ·-1,1){)2,~ .l.Kl2!, -.4.2~01)  109,5 .lf.K?5 .10.625  
\I HVI( t Ml!tL II Al'l'I II P MAl1:.HIA1  SM!. A~f,\1'  -..UU7 -2,ZR  +ttJ7,'HJ .1.0000  l.6875 -12.1"12S  
INI Ok!'.11,"-COHP I 1n1 t MAHI.I< ONt.  IH,t.~ IMC>  +J 7.2K HIO.~O  tLO.U2 +2b,2.~0()  7.00 -lfl.25  

COMI'!LED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERV!CES page 5 
NASA postpones space shuttle launch 
ASSOCIATED P1rnss  
CAPE CAN!\VEHAL  
.'\ loud, llashing alarm went off in the  
cockpit of space shuttle Endeavour with  
just 4 1/2 minutes to go in the count­ 
down Thursday, forcing the postpnne­ 
ment of NASA's first space station con­ 
struction flight. •.  
The launch team began fueling the  
shuttle later in the day for another try  
early Friday, though rain and clot'1dy  
skins were possibln.  
Ni\SA has only five minutes or less  
each clay Lo launch Endeavour in o~dcr  
to 11Hwt up with thn llrst space statio'n  
part. which was put in orbit twu weeks  
ago by the Bussians. The shuttlu con­ 
tains Lim second station component. ·  
Thi' master alarm blarod and rl'd  
lights llaslrnd just before the shutile was  
lo lift off around 4 a.m. Thursday. By  
tho timn controllers traced the probtem  
to a momentary drop in hydraulic pres­ 
sure and decided to press ahead, it was  
too late ­they had missnd the cutoff by  
a second or two.  
"Sure. il's frustrating," said Bill  
Headdy. shuttle program director and a  
veteran shuttle commander. "But we do  
things right. We do things by the book,  
and we're not going to cut any corners  
even if',_it means just shaving a second  
or two.  
The six astronauts crawled out of the  
shuttln, and two threw up their hands.  
Commander Hobert Cabana held up his  
thumb and index finger a half-inch  
apart: "We were that close."  
The problem was confined to one of  
Endeavour's three hydraulic pressure  
units. The prussure droppud just long  
nnough to trigger t.he alarm, evidently  
because of a sensitive switch, then  
returnrd lo normal. NASA engineers  
spent the day examining the problem,  
but found nothing wrong with any of  
thn systems and were confident it would  
not reoccur.  
Endeavour's 11ight is already a year AFP Photo  
late because of a cash crunch in Russia,  
The space shuttle Endeavour sat on the launch pad in a light rain Thursday as a one of NASA's partners in building the NASA employee services remote cameras. The shuttle's early morning launch was 
international space station. postponed nineteen seconds before lift-off at Kennedy Space Center.  
The one-day delay cost NASA about  
$600,000, mostly in fuel and overtimu pay. Aboard Endeavour is an American­made connecting passageway named Unity. The astronauts will use the shut­tle robot arm to capture the Hussian space station piuce and attach it to Unity. Then, two spacewalkers will hook up all the electrical connections and cables  between the two cylinders, and attach handrails and tools for future crews. Until the alarm sounded, it looked as though the weather would be the only problem. Rain and clouds moved in from the Atlantic 1 1/2 hours before liftoff, but drifted away with minutes to spare. Secretary of State Madeleine  Albright and other dignitaries from around the world had gathered in the drizzle to see Endeavour and its crew off. "Here we have 16 countries cooper­ating on a venture to the future," said Albright, who couldn't stay for Friday's attempt. "This is a good investment."  



Prison officials locate escapee's body 
ASSOCIATED Pness 
HUNTSVILLI.Z, Tex. A body was found float-· ing in arlver Thursday and prison o[liclals said it resembled a killet' who escaped from death row 
on Thanksgiving. 
There was no confirma­tion that the borly, which was beneath a bridge on the Trinity River, about four miles from the prison uniL that houses deiit.b row, was that of Martin Gurule said Texas prison spokesman Larry Todd. 
It was found about 5:30 
p.m. by two off-duty cor.-· reclional officers-who were fisb!ng. Todd said. He said the man bore a 
resemblance td · the, escapee and ·· wor13­"inm4te~style shoes and· inmateclothjng,'-' · 
Gurule, 29, was among seven condemned killers who tried to break.out of the Ellis Unit 15 miles northeast of Huntsville late ThanksgMng nfght. · 
The other six surren-· de.red ·as guards in·towers opened fire after spotting them, but Gurule managed to get over a pair of 10­foot chainH.ok fen.ces topped with razor wire and scamper in.to the fog and darkness, making him the first Texas Inmate to oscape clOath l'O.W since 1934. 
Tracking d9gs lost Gurule'sscen.t on a.road 

nea.r the prison. . ·· A massive search that 
focused Qn the area inmie· dlately surrounding tho prison failed to turn up any leads, and authorities on Thursday posted a $5,000 reward for Gurule's capture. 
All seven inmates, who used a hacksaw blade to cut a hole in a death row recreation area. fenco. were pa.rt of the nation's only prison work program Lhat uses death row inmates. 
The work project, whore inmates make cloth goods for the corrections system, has been suspended by prison administrators. 
The reward wo.s offered thnlugh the governor's 
office and Gov. George Bush demanded answers to how Gurule was tible to escape. 
"I'm upset about it,'' said Bush, who just returned l'rom a Middle East trip. 
"I've asked tho Toxas Rangers to step in and answer tlrn question f'or me and for Texas.'' 
The Hangers are the investigMive arm of the Dopartment of Public Safety. A panel of the Tex,ts Boo.rd of Criminal Justice, which runs Texas prisons, already is investi­gating the tiscape. 
Huntsville prison offi­cials said Gurule may have been helped by the M('xican M(lfia prison gang. 
__._,-­
----...... ......---------­

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 4, 1998 
Lucki 
continued from page l 
a.nd about which people daim to know her. 
"l can't believe the amount of attention that I'm receiving from you guys on campus," Lucki wrote on the new Internet site. "As far as why you haven't seen me around, I try to keep a low profile and wear the typical ND-girl "uniform"... the last thing I need is for someone to recognize me -especially the administration's nazis." 
The response from Notre Dame students has been inte,nse. On her site, Lucki posls excerpts from e-mails sent to her through the Web page. Many support her decision to pose nude as a Notre Dame student, some are requests for interviews from various media outlets -and a few students wrote in the hopes of snaring a formal date. 
Photos on the page are affiliated with Digital Drcamgirls Inc. The company did not to respond to Observer questions via e-mail on Thursday. No phone number could be obtained for the organi­zation. 

Florida investigations change after girl's death 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO 
The heating death of a 6­year-old girl and mistakes by child welfare workers who didn't realize she was being harmed have led to immediate changes in Florida's system of investigating child abuse. 
Disciplinary action also is likely against some of the wel­fare workers involved in Kayla McKean's case. said Edward Feaver, secretary of the state Department of Children and Families. 
"I think this is a horrendous case," Feaver said Thursday. "No child should suffer like this child suffered." 
State documents show that child welfare workers missed several chances to intervene and perhaps save Kayla's life in the months before she was allegedly beaten to death by her father. 
The documents show that in one instance. welfare investi­gators withheld information that could have led to Kayla's removal from her father's home. They apparently failed to interview a doctor who said the girl's life was in "immi­nent danger." And they didn't challenge her father's con­tention that bicycle accidents or the family dog caused her injuries. 
"They all had pieces of the jigsaw puzzle, and no one had all of the pieces to see what was going on," said Janice Johnson of the child welfare agency. 
Under changes announced Thursday, state officials will make sure that doctors and nurses who are part of child protedion teams examine the child instead of making a judgment by telephone on 
whether  a  child is  being  
abused.  
And  judges  deciding  

whether to remove a child from a home will have access to the child's entire case file instead of just a petition pre­pared by an attorney and investigator. 
Kayla's father, Richard Adams, confessed Monday to the Nov. 25 killing, according to investigators. He remains in jail on charges of murder and aggravated child abuse. Bond was denied. 
Prosecutors said Adams, 24. slammed Kayla against a wall and struck her with a paddle after she soiled her under­wear. He buried her in a for­est some 50 miles from his home, police said. 
In October, an agency super­visor said in a report that Adams could benefit from par­enting and anger-management classes. No one told Adams about the recommendation. 
Lake County child welfare workers first investigated when Adams took Kayla lo a hospital in May. He had assumed custody of the girl weeks earlier after her moth­er, Adams' former girlfriend, entered a battered woman's shelter. Kavla had two black eyes and a.broken nose and left hand. 
' 

0 NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 0 
•
ONLY AFEW LEFT!!! 

•
Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus 

•
Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available 

•
December-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" month's rent 

•Pre-Leasing
for Fall of'99 


61The Best V .a.h.ilre iJD Off-Cam!l)us Iiousin{ Managed By Real E5tate Management Corportation 
234-9923 
I¦ 




Review 
continued from page I 
with a number of clear options. Using a simple point­and-click system the viewer chooses from the categories of academics, "Why Notre Dame?," athletics, student life. spirituality and international. To the side are two additional options: "Voices" includes scores of QuickTime video clips of professors, adminis­trators and students comment­ing on topics ranging from athletics to diversity to the first year of studies; a second sidebar leads users to a virtual tour of' campus. 
Virtual Tour 
The tour is, by far, the most impressive aspect of the pro­gram. The images are record­ed in 360 degrees of video; viewers can turn in a full cir­cle and see the scenery around them on all sides, finally returning to their origi­nal starting point. Though vir­tual "walking" around campus is difficult and frustrating ­the computer vvill only go in a limited number of directions -the images are of near­video quality in thousands of colors. Interior views of the Basilica, Notre Dame Stadium and several classroom buildlings are available. 
But the tour has some obvi­ous omissions. While views of the stadium from all four sides and three scenes of UeBartolo classrooms are included, as well as images of the Decio Faculty building and the Main gate. some hubs of student life such as the LaFortune Student Center, North Dining Hall and most notably the Grotto are not stops on the route. 

Another difficulty is that often the image that appears upon clicking on a particular location is not actually the list­ed destination. Users must maneuver to locate the desired spot, which is a breeze for those well-acquainted with the campus, but the program's intended audience would pre­sumably not know the differ­ence. 
For example, a click OH "War Veterans' Memorial" reveals an imag(i of Cavanaugh Hall; selecting the label "Main Circle" shows viewers a field. Each of these sites can be seen by turning left or right on the screen, but the immediate imago that appears can be mislea.ding. 
Major Categories 
Within the six major cate­gories of the opening screen, the information is well-orga­nized and it is easy and aes­thetically pleasing to hone in on the desired subjects. Pointing and clicking loads the user to progressively more specific categories unt.il he or she arrives at a column of text on the subject of interest. For example, clicking un the cate­gory of Academics offererl sev­eral options. including colleges and educational media, among others. Selecting "colleges" then allows the user to choose a college -perhaps Arts and Letters or Science -and then to reach information on each specific major program. 
Voices 

The "voices" section of the program leaves something to be desired. Sound and video images are not synchronized, and often the lips of the speaker are moving after the sound has ended. At times the sound cracks like a scratched CD. 
Data Accuracy 
All images of the stadium show it under construction and text on the Rolfs Sports Center states that it is project­ed to be completed during the 1497-98 academic year. This demonstrates the problem of this permanent format: rapidly outdated material. 
Computer Requirements 
The program does not require a state-of-the-art com­puter system to operate; mini­mum system requirements include a 133 MHz processor, 6X CD-ROM, sound card, speakers. mouse and key­board. 
One disc contains all soft­ware net>,ded to run the pro­gram, including QuickTime and Adobe Acrobat, in ver­sions for the PC platforms Windows 95/NT and Windows 
3.1 as well as Macintosh soft­ware. Easy-to-follow direc­tions on the back or the box make starting t.he program a snap, though the quit com­mand (Alt-f4) is sonrnthing one wouldn't figure out with­out consulting the directions. 
Because of the large amounts of memory required to run the program {32MB of RAM are recommended). users must shut down nearly all other programs to operate it. The back of the box suggests: "Make sure there are no other programs (including screen savers. startup programs, power management or desk­top accessories) running before starting 'This ls Notre Dame,' as the program demands a lot of the system resources while running." 

~ot somethiV\9 to say? U\se Observer classifieds. 

Circle K 5Y~ Toy Oriv 



Going to an SYR soon?? 
Got agift idea 
{. for you date yet??: 
Wel1 Circle K has a great one!! This weekend, you and 
your date can donate a present that will really mean 
something to someone. Collection containers will be 
found in your dom1 on this weekend, so you and your 
date can just drop off your present at the door! Your 
presents will be given to local families and homeless shelters that can't afford the best Christmas. 
Surprise alittle girl or boy!! Give agift! 
¦I 


_fr_iday, _D~ce~~1~1er 4~•~1~9~98~----------T~he~O~b~se~rv~e~r...::...•~l~N.!..T~E~R~N~A~T~IO~N_:AL:..=:~N.:..:E=W_:_:_S::...__________________P_ag_e_7 
¦ SPAIN

¦ MEXICO 



Pinochet judge faces 
Unions fight U.S. apple farms 

f\tEX!CO CITY 

Eight apple workers rrom Washington state met Thursday with Mllxi1:an offi­cials as part of a labor-rights inv11stigtltion against the Unit.lld Staws und,w Urn North 
Anrn riran  Fro ti  Trarle  
Agrnrnm·nt.  
/1..  rnalition  of  M1~xican  

unions filnd a :rn-page com­plaint in May accusing the Washington applo industry of rnulincly violating tho rights and thr.catnning the health nnct safely of mainly Mexican :ippln pickPrs. 
The Teamsters, Urn Unilfid Farm Workers of America and thP lnternatiorrnl l,abor Hights Fund have i;upport.cd thn complaint, which Mexico rnt:1'.nt.ly agnwd to invnsligat(). 
"Wt~ don't ex1wcl n. rt:'sol11­lio11 through this process," 
'I :;aiu John August. a 
Tt•n ms tors rn prnse ntalive 
L-~~~ 
accompanying the Washington workers. But as a result of the complaint, he said, ''more and mon~ work0 
'WE 
DON'T EXPECf A 
RFSOLUTION 

THROUGH THIS PROCESS.' 
JOJJNAUGUST 
TL'AMSTEHS /UiPJ/HSEVTA l1VE 
ers are going to bncome vigi­lant of' labor violations that involvo cros:;-bordor dis­putes.'' 
The Teamsters are trying to organize apple orchard work­ers, and part of tht:' complaint centers on alleged efforts by growers to discourago work­ers frnm joining thr union. 
During their visit to Mexico City, L!H:1 W,Lshington delega­tion mot with Rafael Aranda 
Vollmt'lr, head of M:eXic<f's NAFTA Adrnlnisttative Office, 

world-wide spotlight 
which investigates labor .coma 
plaints. 
August said tho workers testified abouL low pa.y, inade• quate hr nonexistent benefits, unsnre working conditi()ns. abusivo supervisQrs and actions taken by the compa• nies to prevent workers from organizing unions. 
Appfo company officials in Washington have said the complaints are baseless and that workers are protect(~d by 
U.S. labor laws, but Augi:1st said such laws are dlflleul! to enforce. 
The maJhrity of the 45,000 workers who pick and sort applos in Washington state's Yakima and Chelan counties are Mexican immigrants. 
The Mexican complaint eventually could he he,wd by an arbitration panel that has 
the power to impose sane• 
lions. 
Associated I' ress 
MADRID 
The judge who wants to pul former Chilnan dictator Augusto Pinochet on trial is a quiet but relentless slnulh. 
Working out of drab oflices at the National Court, Baltasar Garzon, Spain's top investiga­tive magistrate, has spent morn than a decade tackling every­thing from drug lords to death squads. 
Al 43. hn has established himself as the wundorkind of the legal world -but has done it in such a tight-lipped fashion that many Spaniards probably have never heard his voice. 
Now Garzon has cmbarknd on his biggest case yet, one sure to have current and for­mer despots everywlwre look­ing over their shoulders -a bid to oxtra.dite Pinochet from 

Britain for trial in Spain over 
human rights crimns commit­
tfld during his rnign in Chile. 
(;arzon. who issued a war­rant that led to l'inochnt's arrest in London on Oct. I6. is not without critir.s. Cov,wnmnnt ollicials and prosecutors at his own court challenged his cas1i against l'inoclwt., arguing in vain that he lacked jurisdiction. 
Detractors also point to high­prof1lc drug and weapons-traf­ficking rns11s in which suspects l'ingernd by Carzon ultimal.tdy got off scot-fron. Sonw say lw botched thosn inv,istigations. 
But wlrntlrnr llwy am for or against him, Spaniards can't ignorn tlw dappnr judgn with tlrn steely gazp who has conrn very far. vr,ry fast. 
Born in llrn ol ivn-growi ng heart.land ol' Andalusia, (;arzon pulled night shifts at tlw gas stat.ion wlrnrP his l'atlwr work11d in ord,ir to g,)t through law school. 
!lo got a position as a provin­cial judg(i at tlw agn of 2:l, Likn all Spanish judges, hn won it by passing an tixamination rallwr than through cxperinncn. Ile quickly workncl his way up, passing anotlrnr gruPling t.nst lo become a National Court judgn at age 32. 
Garzon is 01w of six nxamin­ing magistralns who conduct investigations, issun snarch warrants and order suspncts detainnd but do not try casns. 
Under Spain's legal system, any private party can snnk to bring criminal charges against another. The National Court assigns these cases to judgns like Garzon who decide whether to open a formal investigation. 
By all accounts, Garzon has the biggest casnload at tlrn National Court. Court sources said this is becausn Im is a dogged investigator who shins from dumping casns. 
The Pi nochnt affair bngan two years ago when, at tlrn request of a communist-Ind party called United Left and lawyers representing victims, Garzon agreed to probe human rights abuses committnd by military juntas that rul11cl Argentina in tho 1 IJ70s and '80s. 
The probe spil11id over into Chile because of Operation Condor, a scheme by Pinochet and other South American despots to crush a perceivnd communist thrnal through cross-border cooperation among their secret polic11. 
Garzon has chargod Pinochet with genocide, lorturn and ter­rorism in what Carzon says was a systematic n!Tort to sm"iff out dissent during 17 ynars in power. /1. Chilean gov,1rnmnnt report puts tlrn 1111111bnr of dnad and missing undnr l'inodwt's rogime al :{, 197, 
l'inochnl stnpped down in 1990. hut first grantnd himsPlf legal immunity from prosnt:11­tion. 
Lawyers who havn prnsnnlnd Garzon with thousands or pages uf' tostimony in thn Pinoclrnt. casn say lw has dis­playnd a dazzling command of facts tw1m whiln juggling ot.hnr big casns. 
"Ile strivns for P!Ticinncy," says .Juan Garcns, a lawyor for victims ol' tlw l'inoclrnt rnginw. 
Until now, Garzon's higlwst­prolile case was a probn into a bungled effort by Spain's t!Hm­Soci alist govornmont to kill Basque separatist hitmen dur­ing the 1980s. 



The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Friday, December 4, 1998 



GOP drops fund-raising probe 
"'"~ Te take a lot of pride in gaining high marks operating expenses that are among the lowest in the V V fr~~ the major rating services. But the fact insurance and mutual fund industries.•·•
Showing 

is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every With TIM-CREF.you'II get the right choices­

December 5th 8:00 pm 

.day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF, and the dedication -to help you achieve a lifetime

Carroll Auditorium 

ensuring the financial futures of the education and of financial goals. The leading experts agree.

Free Admission 

research community is something that goes beyond So does Bill. 
~ 

stars and numbe,-s. Find out how TIAA-CREF can help you build a We became the world's largest retirement orga­comfortable, f,nancially secure tomorrow. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 

nization' hy offering people a wide range of sound Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call 
investments, a commitment to superior service, and us at I 800 842-2776.
Student eha.m.6er W.ecltal 

ii Ensuring the future
featuring works by for those who shape it.w Beethoven, Brahms, 

• \o-ut1.:c .\tnrriing'd:aJ, In..; .• Jul\' ,1], l99H. Mor111n~-.u1 i~.m inJ\•p:111.km ..._-rv1.:i: d1JI rJIC., rn111ual t'u111.h,,111J \',1.liJhk Jm1u111i:~. 1'11.: 11,r ur~, uflumh in Ml uw1·,rm~·m <Jh·~nrv rnCi\·.: ti,\' \IJn .lllll th.: Jh'\I 22 ~•~, r,·..·1H' 

Happy 21st 



Birthday 
Love, Mom & Dad Mike & Shanna 
AHHLIGA 
HUSTOH 

-Morningst9r rapngsfor the CREF Global ~gu\~es Account, CREFEquitylndeXAccount, arid CREF Growth Accounr  " ... Americas Top Pension Fund." -MoneyMagazine, January 1998  
AAA  
-S&P and Moody's  
rating for TIAA**  

filGH MARl(S FROM MORNINGSTAR, S&P, MOODY'S, MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL. 
Faure, Handel, Mozart, Purcell, Smetana, and others 
Free and open to the public 
2:00 p.m. «j-tlda.v, ~tctm6et 4 AMth6tt: ,4udltotlum 'lht Sttltt /11,u1eum o 


tf1Lll sr ,1r,,. ~I, 1mi11g,t.1.r pn1prir1"u, rafm~, rctk<'! hi~torH .d ri.j; J,!1ulfl•,i pc:rti ,,rn,mff .lllJ JH· "'h]LYI 1,, d1.1Jl)'.<." n"\'.n rnuruh The, .1,,· ,akulJrnl frorn 1hr .1, ,:1111111', 1hrn· . liw , .mJ 1n1 H·.ir .llTf,11:!,l' .1111111,il rnum• m n,.:,., 11fl.Jll-JJ\' l1~a-.ttr} hilln::111rn\\\llh J['pr•1 .,. w 11.:t· Jdju,11m·111,, Jlltl Jmk IJ~ll1r t_hJt fl'lk,·1,pl'rli1r111Jncc i--.,h1w 1,u JJr ·1 tiill n·1u1n\ 1·htc 11wr~U ,1.ir rJ1111~, rlh·rn·iJ 111Jl\ct\l. Jfl' f\l11rn1111-t\lJr', pul>h•h\'J rJHnp.,, whkh ,H<' \\T1~hll-J .1nr,ltu-"' nl 11\lhrn••, 11 .... , .1nJ t.·11·,-e.u r.111n~, lorpcno,hl•nd1111;t July .11, Jy<.l!t ·nw -.,,;r,ir.n~· 11111r11bh\lk'.<l f r.11111i;:• 1t,r l"J•h nl di,· p1:r10,l, ~n· 
------~~~ 

Cltlf Stoel .r\ccQUlll  CR.BF Gl<,N,I F...iiuilits AcCOllol  CREF EquitJ JoJ~1 ,\,:(or.Ult  CR.fif Gr-o'#lh Accu1tn1  CR.EF 8011,J Mnkcl Accouat  CRf.F Sbcl.11 Chuict Ati:ov.111  
'-.1~r /t.1;·.,1~,  lu1111! '  \JJI fZ ,Ill•~/  ~IJf k,.,1Htf,  .\IJ! i{,H11\~ 1  ~lJI lt.11n,f•  
Surnh1."l 1illn11•·111, 1·•111111  ,,_:umt,n,,I J111,111a11t1r1Jl Equit1  :-.:11mt-:1 ,,1 ll1111w,11,· l·,1,1,11  Suml"'l "I l1.1111c-.11, I ,111m  Suml,,.-1 ,,I h1(d l11,,m1t·  ~1.11111...-, c,I ll,,m,,111 I ,:.,•ti  
\u,.w11,R,ur,!  .-\,,,,u111,!l11nl  \«111,111, R.11«1  
-4/1,L:!0 -4/Llti., .J. ,,,-...  ;;.2.110 :,,:•,, :---. ':\  -~ 11.W :-..: \ ~ ,\  . ':"I'!  , Uo3 ' I  I  

••) I•,·-.: '''I' rJunic, Jr<" 1,,;'.,:tl 1111 ·1 I,\,\·, ,-\,q1n, >11,II lmc,·,,ul-..11, 11i,:.th. ,.1m1~ ;'.l\'ltlf. .1hlll} .lH,I 11,n.•.ll upn.,:,11~•-l'a;.,nn.11h~ ']IJ,..,l <>11 .,~.._-1, uml, 1 111.111.1,'•·111011 ·,:11,,1/,11,I '-• /'11,,, ". /11,r,1·,111,1 H,11111<1 .-1,.. 1,',,1,. i998, I ,pj'lt.•r .\11.al,·111.11 "-·n,~1;,. 111, . /.,u,rr i>r,,-u,,r". Amr/,1,rnl /J,1tu, l'NX 1CJu.Hlt·1h-1 ("Ill·! ,t•rt,!i,,111.·, .m,1 1111<·1<·,1• u, iill' 'IL\.\ lk.11 I ~1.1i.· :\i.,.11111 ,nt .t"mhur,·.l lw I I\·\ I IU I 111,li,1.!1,~1 md i11,rn111utn,1! '>r:n11:e• Im m111l' ,nmpktt· :nl11nn.n1nu. i1:d11J111r, hJ1~1-..·.mJ \''f'l:n-..·, ,Jli l xrn, N4.! l-.\.t ,·,1r1h1,1n ;_;011_ tru ,h, ( RI I· ind 11·\:\ H, .1! hi 1h .\,1,1!1!ll J'fl"Jll"r. 11:-.1-.. l(l".1d rhrm ,.11d1JI!\ l•11.,r\ 
\tip ltl\l'\I f•I '-t:'ll,i llHll\<'1 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Republicans jettisoned cam­paign fund raising from their impeachment inquiry Thursday, likely clearing the way for a his­
toric House Judiciary Committee vote next week over President Clinton's relationship with Monica 

Lewinsky and Livingston his effort to cover it up. 
At the same time, incoming Speaker Bob Livingston sig­naled a desire for the full House to convene in a pre-Christmas session to vote on any articles of impeachment that win commit­tee approval. 
"If the Judiciary Committee could complete its work next week, it would be my expecta­tion that we could have a vote on the following week," the Louisiana Republican said in his first public remarks on the sub­jert in more than a week. 
Taken together, tho develop­ments amounted to strong sig­nals that majority Republicans -chastened by disappointing election results -intend to swiftly wrap up the third presi­dential impeachment inquiry in the nation's history. Even so, while the GOP-controlled panel is expected to approve at least one article of impeachment on a party line vote, the outcome on the House floor remains in doubt. 

Democrats, as well as Rep.ublicans including Peter King of New York, intensified efforts during the day to craft an alternative that would stop short of impeachment. 
Spokesman Kevin Pogarty said King and several other GOP lawmakers were laboring over a proposal that would "inclurle a strong condemnation of Clinton and require him to pay a financial penalty and issue a statement acknowledg­ing wrongdoing." 
Key Democrats met privately with the party's leader, Rep. Dick Gephardt, and -accord­ing to two sources speaking on condition of anonymity ~ they will soon begin contacting Republican lawmakers outside the Judiciarv Committee to sPe what bipa/tisan cooperation might be possible in the full House. These sources added that while Democrats are will­ing to join in efforts to wrap up the issue by year's end, they will insist on a lengthy period for debate on the House floor and demand that consideration be given to censure as an alter­native to impeachment. 
There was no end to the skir­mishing between the White House and the Judiciary Committee. 
In a letter to top White House lawyers, the committee's gener­al counsel, Thomas E. Mooney Sr., said that whoever delivers the formal defense of the presi­dent before the committee will be "subject to at least one full round of questioning" by the lawmakers on the panel and staff. 
Mooney also wrote that the committee does not have some documents the White House requested in preparation for the defense, noting in particular that internal Justice Department memos related to alleged campaign finance irreg­ularities are in the possession of department officials. Other doc­urnents the White House sought, he wrote, will be made available only in the confines of the committee's heavily guard­ed document room. 










VIEWPOINT 
Friday, December 4, 1998 -------------------OB~ERVER -------------------------page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NUIJ.l~. DAMP Orner.: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINr MARY's U~HCE: 309 ilaggm, Nocrc D,une, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR•IN-CIIIEf Heather Cocks MANAtaNG FunnR RtJSINf.S.S MM•MlER llrian l\,in•halcr Kyle C•rlin 
A~s,snNr MANA<,JN(, EDITOR Ilc,11hcr MJcKe11z1< 
NFw, F1mon ........M,chdlc Knop, A.nvt:kTtsrN(; MANM;F.R . . ...............liry~n Lmz Vnwpo1m F.nnoR . .... E<lumlo I lull Ao Df.<r(;N MANAGER.. ... . . ....• Brm !inch, SJ10RTS Ft'IITOR ......... Karhll"en Lop<"z SV,l'rMS MANACER ......•...•..••..•••. Midrnd llrouillc1 SctNt. F.n1roR.1........ ........Sar.,h Dying V.lNTROLLER.. ................. Dave Rogcro 
Kri,,i Klitsch WlH AIJMINl5TltATOll ..................Jennifer Brdow SAINI. MARV'S Ellll'UR ...... M. Sh.11111rn Ryan G1v11·1·11<:.~ EDITOR •..••..•••.•••.• ,..••••.••..••. rcrc Cilcll, Pt1010 Eonou ....................Kcvm lhlum 
Ihe, >h\(..'rwr ,., !ht· 1111k1)i:mkm 11ew,1>.1r~·r pi,hJifffi..·t! by die .uu1.lcou of tht" Umvcf.tiq 1lt-No1t.-J).1mc ,fo l..:1r .mJ ~JIIH MJry011 ( .ollq\l .. It dnc, 1101 nn..c,.,.uily r.:llc:1..1 li1c pnl1.:it:..\ nf iii.: ,11..lmini:.muinn o(either in:.tituliun. Tho:-n.:w:. is rqmm1.l ,1, o1u..m.urh ,rn.l uhjc,nvdy ii'.\ po~.-.ibk. Un.~1~nr-d clllloriah rr.:prrn.·m the opinion of 1ht: majority nf ,h, fal111ir-111·{;hi,!, /1.-1.1111,~lll~ h!,uJI, A,,1:i1,111t fs.la11.t~i11g b.!itm .iml JcpJ.rt111c11t t.:Jic,1rs, Cc1mn1c-11caric.-., lclt1:r:i .ind ~ulumn~ pr.:M:111 thC' v11,."W) Pl thi: ,1mhur-,, ,11111 m1{ ni;~('\:l;trily thClw ufTht. Ohi,crvcr Vi1..-v,vnim ~piV.:i.: i~ -'v;1il,.1,bk tii all mcml'll.·r\ or 1l1c Nrnrl.' l1,111w/t.;°,1i1i1 \.fary\ rn111111tmity ,tnd w ,1U rc.idcr~. The free 'l."Kpr(!~'>irn1 oC 11a1y111g op111ium 
1hrut1~h h'.IIL"r, l~ l"lll<IIH 1wd 
Conta~ting The Observer Ediwt-in-{ :h,cf 6.11-4 542 l\usiuc.s Offico hl,111,t~intt Fditor/A\-.1\1.uu ME r,.l l -4141 AJvcn i,ini; Ncw,/Plwtu 6.ll·'i.lB Srmm,. Spnm, r,}1•4'i43 fax S(l'11c-/S;1i1H M.1r)·\ r,.\1-4540 Vimp<>inr E-M.,il [),1y bl1ror/VH·wptlllll (,31-~.lllJ A,! E-Mail ( ltfi{;c M.1n.1gn/Cern:r.1I fnl~1rrnafion r,.H-7471 New, E-M.,il 
My Aunt Suzy usnd lo lly for Cont.immlal Airlirws. I've always adon~d i\unl Suzy. It amaws nrn how she c:an Im very hip and vibrant bul. al tlrn samP limn, exception­ally sophisticalml and wise. Becausn ol' h1•r i11f111P11cP, it is not surprising that I haw always lowd to l1y. 
Brittany Morehouse 
It's amazing that I still do. 
When I sclwclulPd my Thanksgiving brl'ak 11ight bark in August, I never would have gLressed at how profound an effect it would comn lo have on nrn. Not evnn my Aunt Suzy with all or lrnr airborne adven­turPs can say that she's gon!l through whal I ex1wrim1c11d on November 25. I await11d takn-off casually. 
lmnwdiat1dy upon full boarding, the Captain warned us that we might have to "switch planes" bm:ausP they wnre "dwcking the hydraulics". A chorus of groans arose at tlrn thought ofrnposilion-. ing carry-on bags. llaving had only lwo hours slncp in Llw past two nights. I was quitn anxious to gnl going. 
So. my follow passengPrs and I worn thankful whPn tlw pilot announwd that tlw prolMm had brnm fixed. The flight allt>J1dants pPrf'ornwd their oxygnn demonstration and, as on evnry olhnr flight. nobody paid atLnntion. /\ftp1• a brier ronv11rsation with tlw woman next to mn about dnslirmtions and holiday plans, I dozl'd, rPliPv1•d lo finally close my nyos. 
I didn't know what exactly woke nw. wlrntlmr it was a jolt or hnavy !.urbulm1ce, ht1l my first sensation was of thP piano violl'nfly shaking in a loud s11rins uf' con­sistont b1iaL.;, as in tlw firing of' a machine g'U!l. 
Wlwn tlrn shaking did not slop, I lis­
631-5.113 
631-6900/8840 63l-88.l9 631-(,927 
Viewpoint, l ~V•1d.edu oh:,crvcr@Jarwi11,cc,nd.cJu oh~erver.ob:-.ncw:,. l @lnd.cdll 

¦ THE BEAT 

'The Spirit of Christmas is a Powerful One' 
tl'ned for a messagn nf information and/or reassurance from the cockpit. I was sur­prised to hear the flight attendant instead. "The Captain is talking to tho r,ontrol tower in Chicago." In the meantime, tlrn man sitting behind me had been lislPning to channel nine on his earphones and could hear thn pilot's entire conversation. Just as he began Lo 
repeal it Lo tl!ose of us everyone is to me were sitting nearby, the pilot replaced by planning how to came over the intercom rear,h evnryorrn by phone to let 
to announce that we them know I would be late in wern heading back to arriving, and lo the domino­Chicago. effect this delay would havo 
We had lost an engine. upon the rest of the day's plans. 
l'l'rhaps I did not fully I resist thn undeniable truth of grasp tl!e conrept o[ los­our rnality: even after a close ing a whole engine on a brush with mortality, we pro­737-300 (that is, a two cend along the normal guide­engine plane). It is possi­lines of behavior and just carry ble that I was just too on. tired from the lack of The key is that life is in fact sleep, papers, and different, changed, altered for­exams; hilariously, my ever, but not the observablo imagination pictured an motions of our lives. The engine falling through change, the dilforonce, is on the the sky. In any case, the inside. severity of our situation Every minute counts. Every 
didn't completely sink in until the moment our plane did somP-lhing I thought was only possible in movies. Suddenly, my head was thrown back as we startl'd to steeply ascend. Then, the plane plummeted straight down, and halt­ed with an abrupt clunk. I noticed my hands were shaking. I looked around me and saw many pairs of frightlmed eyes. I swallowed. 
By the time tbe man with the headset informed us that the pilot had just declared an emergl'ncy, I was truly tcrri­(fod. Seconds later, communication from channel nino was cut off. The remainder of llrn flight was torturous. as the aircraft cycled between bumpy coasting and rau­cous tipping sidoways from one wing to tho othN. A woman holding an infant a couple rows in front ol' me sobb1\d. 1 lelplnss, unable to intluence the fate of tlrn aircraft and its occupants, I prayed. 
As I prayed. I found myself engaged in the exquisite pain of thinking upon family and friends whom I love dearly. 
In what seemed like centuries later, the pilot announced that we were situated above the Chicago airport but would not be landing for another twenty minutes or so. Those were long minutes. 
enced a near-disaster in the air and all the agonizing, soul-searching momnnls this suspension in space and lime created, one would think that life would be differ­ent somehow when we landed. Yet, as soon as my feet hit the floor of the airport, my mental capacities once again swilclwd back to simple concerns. Prayers and 
reflections on how precious 


All aircraft had been instructed to wail until we had landed before attempting take-off or landing. Even as our wheels touched the ground and the sight of four fire trucks and two ambulances, lights flashing in preparation for our arrival. appeared through the windows, we were not yet out of danger. The left wing flap was broken and the plane was given the longest runway possible to land; still, I seriously thought we were going to crash into the airport tnrminal. 
It's funny how one's mind can move swiftly from the most mundane to the most profound thoughts, and then back again to the banal. When I departed Chicago a couple of hours earlier, I was concernl'd with schoolwork and my schedule for the weekend. I didn't even consider the possibility of my not making it to my destinations. Aft.er having experi­
gesture, conversation, trip, gift, smile or frown, prayer, idea... basically every everything counts. It's easy to rec­ognize and surely easy to say but so much more diflicult to do, to live. We must live so that every moment is valued. 
In just a few hours, I was able to re­realize a valuable mnssage easily forgot­ten. Now, I carry this message with me as we approach another holiday. The spirit of Christmas is a powerful one. The opportunities inherent in this time of year are rich. I truly wish ovcryone Lhe bnsl in finding a way to make it count. 
Brillany Morehouse is a sophomore Hnglish and American Studies major from somewhere in Ohio. She can be e-mailed at Morehouse.l@nd.edu. 
The views expres.wid in this column are those ofthe author and .not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
USllW, ITNA~CJNtYAFll:R 7Ht: 'n'OP~'t.APPW IJP el/SRY/.l.JR/1? a3T.All-lHAT lll£YPl<VNOt/Kel? 7He.M­55L-V5G S/CK51/t;PEJY7H~ SOWPAL.ANl?MOVZWON/  SOlJlb MW/APel3l, 801',AY/3P.?  

¦ OuoTE OF THE DAY 
,Hasany one supposed 
it to be lucky to be 

born? I hasten to inform 
him or her it is just as lucky 
to die, and I know it.' 
-Walt Whitman 



VIEWPOINT 

page 10 -----------------------­
¦ SUPER H!GU INTHJS!TY TfiA!MNG FOR THE M1rm 
Lice, I-Con, Sprinklers and Mountain Dew: The First Semester Revisited 

The best place to start a review of the year, Might he with the animal issues, I fear. The PSA yells ..oppression." but I don't agree, We treat 'cm pretty nice, if you ask me. 
The sheep in Zahm last year was happy becuz' Ofihe cigarette she was srnokin' -'iwas her iirsi buzz. But that happened last year -what's happening now? We're being hospitable -f'II show you how: 
Spencer Stefko 

If you look closely, we're being quite nice. All ihe McG!inncrs (they of the head lice), Could easily kill it, they do have the power, But just to be nice, they have yet to shower. 
To go a step further. we put animals in flight, Thanks to a Zahmbie that PETA* dislikes. But not the flying octopus -his memory burns bright, He'll live in our minds as the marine-life Orville Wright. 
At LaFortune's new Burger King PETA would holler, Some say Notre Dame sold out to the dollar. I like it living in Zahm, it's real close and nifty, But the "freshman 15" is now "freshman 50." 
That's just one of the new places to eat. Yon can also stop by Reckers tu treat. And South Dining Hall, too, finally did open, For our bookbags to join us at table we're hopin'. 
Also to "Southie" moved the student publications, Who apparently don't like their new situation. They claim it's secluded, in fact downright crummy, But some things never change: The Gipper's still unfunny. 
Next up to explore is a new use of chalk. The PSA has deployed it to color sidewalks. Sometimes to a rally the chalk points the ,.vay, Thanks to non-stop sprinklers. it washes away. 
(Note to the guy who keeps the sprinklers going; Point them away l'rom the cement -it's not growing.) 
When the cops raided I-Con, all the young'uns had !D's, They all said the same: "This picture looks just like me." "I know all the info on there -ask and you'll see." They asked one guy: "Height?" and he said "6-foot-3." The next question was, ''Weight?" "Um, 'bout one-ninety-one." .lust one more question and the questions were done. I le was on fire, he thought he'd never get caught, 'Till ttrn cops asked for eye color and he answered, "Illoodshot?" 
I offer Right Heason peace and a Christmas gift: Something, afrer which, there'll be no more rifts. If someone would send them a warhead of uranium ­Then the paper can f'nd up like Kurt Cobain's cranium. 
No alcohol in the hallways -that seems about right, No Jim Beam, no Mad Dog, surely no Busch Light. But Mountain Dew? Oh my Ciod -the horror, Just ask my friend Keith who's 10 dollars poorer. 
lf'you don't understand the next stanza you're blessed, .lust skip right over it and go on to the rest. 
If you're online and it's Lucki you seek, Leave the poor girl alone, you shameless geek. We all deserve privacy, and she deservrs hers, You wouldn't have found her if you weren't in yours. 
And some boring day if you're sitting around Zahm, And decide to jump on-line and maybe e-mail Mom, But look up Lucki because you think she's Da Homb, Just get the address right-in it there•s·no "91.com." 
And that brings us to the Campus Clowns of the Fortnight: A band here a week ago wins this one outright. Third Eye Blind is their name, and anarchy their game. And if they weren't clueless, of themselves they'd be ashamed. 
They told the crowd to be as rowdy as they can, And to be sure to never listen to "The Man." And while they were right in ripping Abercrombie and Fitch, What happened nex~ proves the lead singer's a ... 
He got all gutsy and incited a riot. Because ho's such ,a tough-guy he promoted disquiet. He told the students to ignore every bouncer ­The very same guys who protected the coward. 
In the summer I wa~ a bouncer at a place called Metropol. I met some great p·eople and some bands who were cool. During a Heel Big Fish concert a kid was almost crushed, Until the rowdiness'"of the crowd was subsequently hushed. With some calm words from the stage a crisis was averted, At a Third Eye Blind concert the kid would have been hurted. 
If he was singing at Metropol and I was protecting this ace, Upon hearing his words I would have altered his face. I'd put his eyes over here -inside of his ears, Then I'd give him a wedgie and kick his whole rear. 
But let's end on a good note -the first semester was fun, But with one great big dark spot that's now bright as tho sun. I don't much like Keenan. but that's for another day, I'm glad to sec a healthy Brent Moberg, their third-floor RA. 
* -PETA is the animal righlc; group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, formerly knuv.n as PI-JTDMTTIIIlNH, People who Have Too Damn Much Time on Their llands and GeaUy Need Hobbies-which didn't seem to have the same succinct ring. And no. I'm not kidding, there really is a group caUed the People for the Ethical Treatment or Animals. 
Spencer Stejko is a senior American Studies major. ffyou want to judge and moralize, go join Right Reason so no one will read what you have to say. ffyou're fair-minded, you should live and let lizie and stay in your own business -and tell others to do so. Ifyou liked what Spencer had to say, you can e-mail hirn al Stejko.3@nd.edu. Ifyou don't like what he wrote. you can direct all e-mails to Lucki@ddgirls.com. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserller. 



,.,,,Bliss. 
. . 
''Excuse me! Excuse met IWas won­dei-ing ityou could help roe to find ... " 
Strike one. Already snubbed, and it'.s only three days after Thanksgiving. 
The happy Christmas rush bas alr~a..dycome and gtme and now peo­ple justwant to get the damn Holiday OV~fYi:W),,
I::wi§hthat there was some way to returnto the days when Christmas was sintere and joyful. The days when the line for Santa wasn't too long,ju,~thighly anticipated. I wonder .v~~nJtwas that I actuallycrossed the l.fne'.fot9the adulthood of dreading 
•~asJ~w~e#'l ed
'hatJie on th<\ my 

fmfMom hadb t'? I am notSayir;i.~ thatI am not excited for <;111:i,stmas to come ~ I am thrilled! Butspri:iewhere aroundthispoint in 
.my ~X:¢i(ement, I realize ifs time to shop and immediately the thrill van• ishes ave grandiose dreams of 
;<l. 9-l).l~lll:\nd see\t1geyeryone be Ute, patient and singlngand da along with the Christmas 
·Muz?,K,,, okay maybe tha,t'$ pushing it,l:mt4sJttoo much to askfor a little consideration and politeness during 
.this timg ofgiving? Lasrtftll~ I cheeked.Christmas was supposed to ~~·Holiday.· "O'Y]D!l:mn 
·~·.;.:.:.,~··
,'.,. .,., ., ••,,,,',c 
glare·.at••tfj~I ~~~~otlzed 
itch thatJm;tran over 1 her shoppingcart. She turh around to apologize s towards the Depends 
t was an emergency ... or as shoppin.gTQrgrand­
gift. Whq.lfuqw$. All I even or i'i:Ytl the 
nJs a$ttess.iu voyage 
here you go yo11 are nto that "Holiday ed out buying tampons fearing thattJike Tickle 
putonba · r 
y 
ther rday aslwa.s leaving a plum 
.woman with 
gifts a edth ed,/
t6ll 
.in return 11.H'asald . hich was atta.chtid to a 
nung i9th~ days of 
· e movies.when 
~•.ti.•··... f)ipg
Whe· ••·.·came etrt ....·.... day
rge familiesleaving to a tropicaldestination 'ng their eight year old son 
omake matters worse, we 
sequels for the!je Jovial vie-goers. ,asking isJustfli'Uttle 
dlovethis Cl::iti~ttnas ·:· it's .yeryone.remmnbor the true fthe Holiday and that we're 
g to make it an enjoyable e people we lov(;l. While ing of' those we lov9,. let's put the peopl¢ we pass snub. In other words-1.1.rcarts. 
'Stiianne Weber Sopho,iii:ire,S,iint Mary's December 3, l998 
-



VIEWPOINT 
FriJay, December 4, 1998 
-------------------------page 11 
¦ RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Administration Must Fully Proclaim Church's Teaching on Homosexual Acts 
ll is a claunling task to voil:e reservations aboul a proposal nndorsnd by such arbitnrs ol' culturn as l'hil Donalnw and the South Bnnd 


Charles Rice 
Trilrnrw. But it may bn useful here Lo note some reasons that militaw against thti addition of snxual orinntation to the Univnrsity's nondis­crimination clause. 
In his 19()7 statement explaining the Univnrsity's position, President Edward A Malloy, C.S.C., said, "Tbe phrase 'sexmd orien­tation' sometinws ... does not admit a distinc­tion b1\twem1 snxual orientation and the man­rrnr in which pimple live out their sexual orien­tation -a distinction that is crimination in their regard should be avoidod" (No. 2358) (emphasis added). 
In 1992, the Congregatiun for tho Doctrino of th,1 Faith sent a letter to the bishops of the Unitnd Statos. It was a ''background rcsourco" rather than "an ofTicial and puLlic instruction." The letter, !lesponding to LegisfatilJe Proposals rm Discriminat.ion against !lornosexuaL~. said: "'Sexual orientation' does not constitut.e a qual­ity comparable to race, ethnic background, etc. in respnct to non-discrimination. Unlike th(1se, homosexual orientation is an objective disorder ... "IIIL is not unjust discrimination Lo take scxu­,d orientation into account, for example, in the placement of' childron for adoption or foster care, in employment of teachers or alhletic coaches and in militarv recruitment." 
The University has ,1 right and an <ibligation to take into account, in appointing to sensitive positions, an applicant's acknowlf1dged inclina­tion toward morally disordered acts. The pro­posud amendment would require the University to forswear that right and default on that oblig­ation. It could hardly be argued that the University, in choosing Resident Assistants, 
Assistant Rectors and other 
critical to us as a Catholic institution ... Institutional non­discrimination clauses are ...  ''"('1HE UNIVERSITY HAS A ,I RIGHT TO TAKE INTO  appointees, should not take into account an applicant's acknowledged inclination to  
legally binding. Nnitlrnr foder­al nor state law mandates that sexual orientation be included  ACCOUNT, IN APPOINTING TO SENSITIVE POSITIONS, AN  other morally disordered acts such as thievery, exces­sive drinking, etc. Why  
in non-discrimination clauses  APPLICANT'S ACKNOWLEDGED  should the inclination to  
... Tn make the change ... would mean that our decisions  INCLINATION TOWARD MORAL- homosexual acts be accord­ed privileged treatment?  
... would be measured by civil  LY DISORDERED ACfS.'  Moreover, for the University  

courts that may interpret this chang,! through the lens of the broader socifllal milieu ... This ... mightjeopar­dizP-our ability to make decisions that we bnlievn necessary to support Church teaching. We wish to continue to speak to this issue in the Catholic context that is normative for this com­munity. Civil law does not constitute the cxclu­siv11 basis for commitments made within this community. We choose not to change our legal non-discrimination clause, but we call ourselves to act in accordance with ... a higher standard -Christ's call tu inclusiveness. coupled with Lim gosp1ils' call to live chaste lives. In some s1mses both of tlwse messages are counter-cul­tural. It is this dual call that is so deeply rooted in our rnligious tradition to which we commit ourselves." 
The legal issues possibly involvnd arn not c!lmrly ddinml. The proposal would invite inde­h1rminatn litigation, f\Spncially in light of the rnality that hmnosexual activists tend to seek tlw validatiun of homosexual practice as a legit­imate altPrnative lifostylo entitled to treatment as the legal and social equivalent of marriage. 
The proposal, for example, would probably rnquirn Notrn Damn to treat the acknowledged homosexual ori,mtation of an applicant as irrnl­nvant in tilling H11sidnnt Assistant and Assistant Hector positions in thn residence halls. it would bn vPry dillicult to maintain the distinction bntween orientation and practice under the proposal. It may fairly be doubted that the Univ1\rsity could legally deny any position to a pnrson who co11nid11dly m1gagns in homosexual prnctice, if' the objection were made that the practice is an outcome of thn orientation and tlrnr11fore that thn supposed denial on the grounds of praclic11 is really a denial on the >,rrotmds of' orinntation. Similarly, it is not dear that the University could li:gally deny use of the Bm,ilicn or nthcr chupeb for a "commitment ccrnmony" b11twerm two homosexuals. One might ask, So what? Why should the University discriminatn on sexual orientation with respect lo such matters? Li:L's go back to tho basics. 
Thn Catnchism of the Catholic Church states that '"hmnosnxual acts arP intrinsically disor­d11rnd.' Tlrny am contrary to tho natural law. Thny closn tlw sexuul act to the gift of life" (No. 2357). But it also allirms, in its final text, that tlrn inclination to those acts is itself disordered: "The 1111mhcr or men and women who have dnnp-snatl!d homosexual tendencies is not neg­ligible. This inchnulio11. which is objectively dis­orderud. constiLUtes for most of them a trial. They must be accepted with respect, compas­sion and sensitivity. FvMy sign of unjust dis-to accept such a limitation 
would convey to students the message that the homosexual inclination is not disordered and that homosexual acts are them­selves not intrinsically disordered but rather are prohibited only by an arbitrary edict of an insensitive Church. 
The University, in denying recognition to GLND/SMC (now called OUTreachND), stated that homosexual acts are clearly contrary to "official Church teaching." But the University refuses to acknowledge that the inclination toward those acts is itself disordered. If, as the Catechism states, the acts are "objectively dis­ordered," how could the inclination to those acts be anything but disordered? And if, as the Administration maintains, the inclination is not disordered, why may it not be acted upon? No wonder that students and others resent the Administration position as arbitrary and inco­hernnt. If "sexual orientation" were added to the clause, it would bo likely to prevent Notre Dame from ever changing its position so as to allirm, in accord with the entire teaching of the Church, that the homosexual inclination is itself disordered. 
The 1986 Letter, issued with Lhe approval of .John Paul II, on The Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons said, "It is deplorable that homosexual persons ... are the object of violent malice in speech or in action. Such treatment deserves condemnation ... It reveals a ... disre­gard for others which endangers the most fun­damental principles of a healthy society. The intrinsic dignity of each person must always be respected in word, in action and in law. Out the proper reaction to crimes committed against homosexual persons should not bo to claim that the homosexual condition is not disordered ... IDleparture from the Church's teaching or silence about it, in an effort Lo provide pastoral care. is nether caring nor pastoral. Only what is true can ultimately be pastoral. The neglect of the Church's position prevents homosexual men and women from receiving the care they need and deserve." 
The reasons advanced by Fr. Malloy for adopting tho Spirit of Inclusion rather than accepting the legally binding proposal were valid when he stated them. And they arc no less valid today. 
Prof. Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
¦ WHAT You MISSED 

Lula S Lament 
Conservatives and liberals alike time to think, and ev1111 if' tlrny do decry the apathy at Notre Dame. On think, or have somn se11timc11tal one level they're righl. Nobody notions about committing them­seems interested in their causes, selves to some higher ideal, they do but there is one cause, or cult, not act on it because it does not fit around here that gets lots or sup­ip with all the other things that Joe port, even if it doesn't gnt much and .lane have to do, covernge, the Conservatives, body, and I'm modcratns. lib-not talking 1wals, spiritual­wrestling. isLs, animists,
Jeff
Phil feminists, Donahue ge1.5 Buddhas, radi­a handful of' cals and Ilindus students, and alike at Notrn


Langan
it makes the Damn am unit1id front page of in their commit-
The . Observer. Rolfs athletic fish bowl gP-ts thousands a day and nobody notices, but it better explains why nobody reads Common Sense, Right Reason or pays much attrmtion to the ranting and raving of liberal and conservative faculty. It takes a lot of e!Tort to keep the body in shape. and with all the food an boor consumed. it takes even more. 
1rnmt Lo unend­ing activity, noise and distraction. Joe Six Pack gnts up in Urn morning to the sound of his radio alarm. (For ease of writing, during the rnsl of this article I will alternate between the proper noun, Joe, and tho prop­er noun, Jane, when rot'erring to the Six Packs.) I le leaves it on and adds the TV for harmony. lie prob­
ably has things 
rigged so he can 

Students are  'IT'S NOT THAT JOE AND  listen to it in the  
not. strictly speaking, apa­thetic. They're  JANE SIX PACK {NOTICE THE INCLUSIVE IANGUAGE)  shower. Once showered, .Jane Six Pack puts on  
busy. In theory,  ARE NOT INTERFSTED IN  her headphones,  
students are interested in  HIGHER IDEALS, IT'S THAT  her real best friends, to accom­ 
what their pro­ THEY DON'T HAVE THE TIME.'  pany her to the  

fessors have to 
say. They have 
open minds, but they're too busy to 
worry about what fills them. What 
do you expect when attending a 
class, reading a book or writing a 
paper are a few more things to do 
among 34? 

In a typical week a student has 18 
hours of classes. six to eight hours 
of exercise, (2,482 people a day use 
the Rolfs Fish Bowl alone), six hours 
of basketball (4,297 guys play bas­
ketball at least twice a week). 21 
hours of eating, 18 hours of party­
ing, 18 hours of recovering from 
partying, 3.5 hours of service or 
other spiritually oriented activity to 
ease the guilty conscience from 
things done at parties and dances 
and to top it off. 22.4 hours of 
studying (if you believe sociologists). 
But this is the tip of the iceberg. In 
addition, there are student groups 
to join, dances to attend, e-mail to 
check, the net to surf, TV to watch 
(can't miss Friends), interhall and 
intrahall sports to play, football and 
basketball games to attend (don't 
forget the tailgating), road trips to 
plan, jobs to seek and papers to 
write. I'm sure I'm missing some­
thing. Oh yes, concerts, and from 
what I gather, professional 
wrestling is now part of the list of 
things to do. I can see tho headlines 
now, "The Body Bounces Bradley." 
In short, there are too many things to do. H's not that Joe and Jane Six Pack (notice the inclusive language) are not interested in higher ideals, it's that they don't have the time. An ideal is another thing, another time commitment. and there's no time for more of those. If thfl typical Joe Six Pack has a problem, it is not apathy. It is what philosophers call acodia, a state in which endless activity hides an inner sadness or a fear to ask deep, life-changing kind of ques­tions. Joe and Jane are not uninter­ested or inactive. They're busy. They're restless. The unending activity hides sadness or guilt. This condition is convenient for people in authority because, when acedia sets in, the subjects go about life without laking the time to stop and think 
'about what it is that they are doing. 
Because Joe and Jane are involved 
in so much activity, they don't have dining hall, class, 
LaFortuno, the 

computer clusters, Second Floor 
Hesburgh and back to the dorm 
again. These faithful friends never 
leave her side. 
Every cafe on campus has a TV or radio playing. Molly McGuire's has violated cafe rule No. 1, no TVs. What audacity! The TVs are strate­gically placed to draw our eyes away from anybody we happen to be eating with and could potentially have a conversation with. In any given section, in any given dorm, .Joe has to contend with sounds from TV's, Nintendo, computers, radios and CD players that rever­berate through the halls. In fact, 1 bet you that Spencer is listening to the radio as he edits this column. Not even the chapels arc quiet. When .Jane Six Pack enters any given chapel in any given dorm, she has to contend with musicians and other groups. 
In short, we are confronted with endless activity and endless noise. We do get plenty of food, plenty of exercise and plenty of bnnr . .Joe's god is his belly . .Jane has "gotta keep moving on" (Steve Miller Band, .let Airliner, chorus. 1hope this meets scholarly standards). With all the time that goes into these things, there is little time for anything else. There is no room f'or silence. There is no room for thought. There is no chance to give expression to that desire expressed by an 18 year old Albort Camus, "l know only one thing, my mystical soul is burning to give itself with enthusiasm, faith and fervor, ..." With all the noise, we do not havn the time to think about what we can give our souls to, and with all the things to do, we just don't have the time. 
Jeffrey J. Langan is a graduate student in the Department of Government. His column appears every other Friday. Editor's note: Eddie actually edited this column with a country music station blar­ing in his ear. Ile blames George Strait and company for any editing mistakes he neglected to fix. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



w E 
oeneN D 
O
THE 

---------------Friday, December 4, 1998
BSERYER 


--~~·~::{\ 
,_:/,".),'--------------------------­
\ ABOUT THE GAME 
\ Are you a star performer? A creative cat? How. 
)~about a word worm or a data head? Cranium, the .,,_, new board game from Cranium, Inc. can help 
you find out. 

Released just in time for the holiday season,· Cranium requires teams of players to hum, whis­tle, sculpt, sketch, act, solve word puzzles and spell '""""--r•,~.l!l,•J·p¥~,.,.,cw:while trying to advance around the board into ,, ,... >t-;,··",:·~ ,.,,)!,. Cranium Central. This variety of activities allows 
,.....,~.. ~--~ li'WIOO!rlit h I b h k ll 
,. ••,tj--i;· .,., ~11klt•....,~ eac payer to contri ute in is strongest s i area 

THE CREATORS 
! ! Whit Alexander Richard Tait 
l 

; Hometown:! Same as Jerry Ford's, so you know it's good. 
Hometown: 

John Logie Baird's birthplace which is, of course, Helensburgh, Scotland. Ii Past employment: I Founder, career of the month club; ecologist, teacher, software developer, Past Employment: I urban planner, policy wonk and data processing wizard in Africa. I also pro-Shepherd, technology evangelist, intrapreneur. l duced the maps for the first version of microsoft's Encarta encyclopedia. 
Biggest achievement: i Biggest achievement: 
Elevation-wise: climbing Mount KilimanjaroI Reaching the day that my wife, Shelly, and I had been together for Professionally: never lost a sheep. That, or Microsoft ·,-more of our lives than not. Also, shipping the most detailed world employee of the year. 
• atlas ever created after Bill Gates told me it couldn't be done. Why create a board game? Why create a board game? It's a great idea. There hasn't been a revolutionary ,, Richard [Taitl talked me into it. Seriously, when Richard came to one in more than 15 years, and people are crying out ; me with his broad vision for the next hit board game it was an easy for new connections with friends and family. ! decision for me to jump on board. 
What are you doing when you're not doing this? iI ,.,,,.,..,,._,_,.,..,,..,,,,.,,.....===,........,..,. What are you doing when you're Playing soccer as a weekend warrior. Convincing ! not doing this? everyone that Scottish .------------. 

"""" 1\"'<1"· ""'-•"l<l"'.ll!Op, 
q u e s t i o n 

,~ ...~"' "-••;•~,.. ct,,... -i:w 
•~ ,;,g.,,....o...,.h~~~~ NJ,!.)~1 
w ~ w --_q


: :::;:a 

and combines individual talents into a team effort, according to the company. 
The game takes about an hour to play and costs $34.95. It can be ordered online at www.playcrani-­um.com, or by calling 1--877--CRANIUM. As of Nov. 19, 1998, the game also became available in Starbucks Coffee Co. stores and Amazon.corn's new holiday gift 
~-------~store. Barnes and Noble has selected Cranium to be 
the first game sold nationally in its stores since it offered Trivial Pursuit 
more than a decade ago. For every game purchased, Cranium, Inc. is donat-­
ing a dollar to charities promoting arts education for children. 
Cranium, Inc. was founded in Nov. 1997 by former Microsoft executives Richard Tait and Whit Alexander. 
"Searching for reality outside the virtual, Tait and Alexander decided the time had come to try something completely different, to build a brand for the ·brain," according to the company. 
Identifying three new trends -the brain is cool, adult creativity is thriving fand board games are back in style -Cranium, Inc. wants to challenge brain lpower while giving everyone a chance to laugh. 
By combining trivia skills with goofy charade--like challenges, Cranium does just that. 

Imagining that I contribute my fair people invented every-share to raising two beautiful children. 
Experience in the board game industry: Experience in the board game 

More games of Candyland with my two young children than I'd like to admit. 
Something no one else knew about you until now: I once wanted to be Secretary General of the United Nations. 
Professional credo: 
Nobody owes you anything except honesty. 
Information about the creators is courtesy of WllaM Communications. 
industry: 
None. And that's an advantage. Everything we do, we approach in a best-of-breed fashion. We have no preconceived notions, just a focus on being the best. 
Something no one else knew about you until now: 
I have a motorcycle named Jasper. 
Professional credo: 
Orville Wright did not have a pilot's license. 
~ ~ 1w~ (~.:~~ ,,::...:,,, ~-~­>i-..)s·,a ,~ (:!!llf'Wii> ...,;;., ~ 1/1"!' '<¢'<>~ 
¥~ :Pi'"'""' •., W\ ~ #'""""'"1l ""~~--~t-rii"'lt
~'hit~.:-,.., ...,.··,..,,........ ,. 

,-lft!;J ,~. ,1 _,h ..,_ """" 
._,.__;;+.. _.t'~~ 
hint 
Phu::e 



Friday, December 4, 1998 -------------------OTHf 
BSERVER 


Gnilleps: one team member must spell the given word backwards. Lexicon: team members must agree on the correct definition of the given word. Blankout: fill in the missing letters to complete the puzzle. Spellbound: one team member must spell the given word. 
Data Head: Polygraph: true false trivia. Selectaquest: multiple choice trivia. Factoid: answer the question of uncommon knowledge. 
I 
l 
• CUCKllf6 •PEtl Yllllll JJ~>Jl WITJJ CllAt/lU 
,,,,ivr.hou"9 Oflllt penr.,n .,.i<,o r.an ~ 'fO'• II:) <jlllt~$ ,t,,. all:\-Of1 
bci:k by hwm,,,;ng or wh,utt,,.9 ,t,11! lO<l\} ..,;ft, no 1-,.,ici..or \;it~ui.:,o; 111 :llort the ~mer ahv, I pa.~ the ~ard 
tc iti. ~""'·' 

..... 
!Ry SARAH DYlAG and K~ISTI KLITSCH 
rcene Editors 
! H's not Charades. It's not Trivial Pursuit. It's not Yliclioriary. And it's not a crossword puzzle. It's t:ranium, and it's coming to crack open your head. 
1 When Cranium arrived on our desk. we were a 1
1itth1 sk,iptical at first. It is, after all, named after lvour brain. How much fun could that be?f Af't,!r two-and-a-half hours of humming, drawing, ~mp!lrsonating and spnlling, our craniums were !cracked, and our sides were spliting from hysteri­
;cul fun. ; Cranium is a great game for a large group of ·people, u family engagement or just your closest 
:friends. It combines all the· classic games of our )time into one clover challenge. 1 Tim object or the game is to advance your team's 
game piece around 
.---------------, Lh e board by cor ­
rectly completing
gnilleps~ 
Cranium card chal­lenges. What sepa­
--~··' 

rates Cranium 
~~ 
f h

;cc.a,...,.._..,.,.,., :r .,,...,, 
rom ot er games ........ ..:,.,.,._ :..,. •._....... 
is the fact that each team only 
1., .. -_...., •·-= =-·aa.1 
gets one card per 
..., ...-:,,n,:f.., _,...,.,...,, 
turn. regardless if it gets the answer right or wrong. This makes for fair 
and even competi­tion. "J like that you only get one turn 
word 


' 
.. 
" 

at a time," said Notre Dame senior Carin Pankros. "That way neither team can completely dominate the board." 
In addition to this rule, the Cranium board offers three chances for each team to advance to the "Fast Track," a shorter path to the finish line. 
"I liked the 'Fast Track,"' said South Bend resi­dent Jason Callicoat. "It makes it easier to catch up when you are behind." 
Before you sit down to play, all camera-shy par­ticipants must know a few things. 
First, be prepared to make a fool out of yourself. Whether you are sil.ently trying to act out the action "reproduce," humming the tune to "Staying Alive," or sculpting a banana split out of clay, many laughs are shared at other player's expense. 
Secondly, some of the card's activities arc harder than you might imagine. Take, for instance, draw­ing with your eyes closed, or spelling the word "psychology" backwards. 
Third, the time it takes to play can vary from game to game. Our first game lasted almost one­and-a-half hours. Our second game was faster, at 40 minutes. 
"We won too fast the second time," said Pankros, Sarah Dylag's teammatA. 
Our only criticism of the game is that some of the cards were too easy. For instance, some of the word puzzles posed no challenge and mimicking the action of u bench-press was a no-brainer. 
Club Cranium cards were an especially fun part of the game. These group participation cards required all teams to complete the activity, and the provided the winning team with a chance for a bonus roll. 
The end of the game, called Cranium Central, resembles the ending of Trivial Pursuit. and took the shape of a tournament round. Each team that lands in Cranium Central must complete one card in each of the four activity types. After doing so.' the other teams choose one final card from any' deck that the front-runner team must complete. 
If the front-runner team is successful, they are~ crowned the Cranium champions. ­
Overall, the game kept us entertained, and with more than 800 different cards, it can provide hoursl and hours of wholesome fun. We would recom-1: mend putting it on the top of anyone's Christmas• list and as a perfect present for that hard-to-buy. for teen or young adult. 1 
"It [Cranium] takes me back to my childhood,"1--Pankros said. "I just really like it." ­
So did we. And we promise it will crack your· head open. Just don't come to us with your doctorl bill. I 
(Five out offive brain cells) 
f 


Ji 

page 14 The Observi,r • SPORTS Friday, December 4, 1998 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 



Number 20 Pittsburgh shuts down Prairie View A&M 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Isaac Hawkins overpowered smaller and painfully inexperi­enced Prairie View A&M for 22 points and 17 rebounds, and No. 20 Pittsburgh shrugged off a sluggish first half to win 78­64 Thursday night. 
The Panthers (7-1). back in the Top 25 for the first time since 1993, overcame an off­night by scoring star Vonteego Cummings to rebound from a 35-point loss to No. 2 Maryland in the Puerto Rico Shootout finals. 
Cummings. averaging 22.2 points and the leader of Pitt's ups·et wins last week over Xavier and Kentucky, was held to 10 points on 3-of-14 shooting and didn't score in the second half until 2:52 remained. 
But it didn't matter, even on a night when Pittsburgh shot only 
32.6 percent in the first half, 
34.9 percent overall and was 6­of-29 from 3-point range despite breezing to early leads of 16-7 and 23-10. 
Jocquinn Arch scored 23 points for Prairie View (0-5), a surprise NCAA qualifier last season but one of the nation's youngest teams this season with eight freshmen among its top 12 players. 
Prairie View stayed much closer than it did in a recent 46-point loss to Tulane, closing to 23-21 midway through the first half and to 55-48 with 11 minutes remaining. 
But, in a game matching two teams nicknamed Panthers, Prairie View couldn't keep up on the boards as Pitt held a 60­43 rebounding edge, with Ricardo Greer adding 12 rebounds. 
Continuing its best start in Ralph Willard's five seasons as coach, Pittsburgh finally pulled away with a 10-0 run midway through the second half started by Hawkins' dunk and finished by his jumper that made it 65­
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

48. 
But it was likely the last easy game in a while for Pitt, which plays Tennessee, No. 25 St. John's and No. 1 Connecticut in the next nine days and has three Big East Conference games before New Year's. 
No. 24 Clemson 82, East Tennessee State 54 
Freshman guard Will Solomon made three 3-pointers during a second-half surge Thursday night that sent Nu. 24 Clemson past East Tennessee State 82-54. 
The Tigers (7-1) shot 8-for-14 from 3-point range in the sec­ond half. Solomon's shots camp, in a 24-9 run that pushed Clemson's lead to 72-43. 
Clemson finished 11-for-25 from long range, with six differ­ent players making 3-pointers. The Tigers held their eighth straight opponent to 60 points or less, and posted their 34th consecutive home victory against a nonconference oppo­nent. 
Dimeco Childress led East Tennessee State (4-1) with 11 points and Kyle Keeton added 10. 
At halftime, new Clemson football coach Tommy Bowden and his wife, Linda, ,got a 30­second standing ovation when they were introduced. Arm in arm, they walked to center court and waved to the crowd at Littlejohn Coliseum. 
Solomon scored all 11 of his points in the second half. Terrell McIntyre led the way with 13 points, Vincent Whitt had 11 and Harold Jamison and Andrius Jurkunas scored 10 points each. Jamison also had a game-high 10 rebounds. 
The Tigers hit just 3-of-11 on 3-pointers in the first half, but still held a comfortable 36-21 lead. 
East Tennessee State pulled 
to within 11 early in the second half, but that's when Clemson started hitting from the outside. 
No. 2 Maryland 92, Wake Forest 69 
It was an amazing exhibition, i>ven by Maryland's suddi>nly loftv standards. 
Second-ranked Maryland made its first 14 shots Thursday night and built a 22­point lead in the opening eight minutes en route to its eighth straight blowout victory, 92-69 over Wake Forest. 
Obinna Ekezie had 19 points and the Terrapins (8-0, 1-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) placed four players in double figures in the first half whilA taking a 54-29 lead against the stunned Demon Deacons. 
Steve Francis scored 18 points and Laron Profit 16 for Maryland, whii;h was coming off a rout of Pittsburgh in the finals of Puerto Rico Shootout and had won its first seven games by an average of 34.2 points. 
This runaway victory came against a team that had beaten the Terrapins six of seven times, including twice last year. Maryland led by 38 points before coach Gary Williams cleared his bench with five minutes left. 
Darius Songaila scored 15 for Wake Forest (6-2, 0-1), which had 11 turnovers in the first eight minutes in falling behind 32-10. By halftime, the Demon Deacons -who start four sophomores had 18 turnovers compared to 11 bas­kets. 
Fueled by the sellout crowd of 14,500 and utilizing a relent­less pressing defense from the opening tip, the Terrapins had four steals in the opening three minutes and raced to a 15-5 lead. 
It only got worse for the Demon Deacons, whose repeat­ed turnovers were quickly turned into Maryland baskets. The assault continued in the Francis scored four straight second half. as Maryland points, and Profit followed with scored the first seven points to a dunk and an easy layup to go up by 32. The Terrapins led ignite a 13-point run that made 89-51before the reserves fin­it 28-8 before the game was 7 ished up. minutes old. Terence Morris scored 15 


The Terrapins made 20 of points and Juan Dixon added their 28 field goal attempts by 14 for the Terrapins, who halftime, including five of eight hadn't beaten Wake Forest at from 3-point range. home since the 1994-95 season. 

Georgia Tech signs Coach O'Leary to new contract 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Coach George O'Leary signed a new contract with Georgia Tech on Thursday that could keep him at the school until he ends his career. 
The deal is a six-year rollover, meaning O'Leary always has six years remain­
ing on the deal unless Georgia Tech decides against it. 
In that case, the school would have to either buy the coach out of his contract or pay him the remainder of his deal. 
Under the new terms, O'Leary will earn $600,000 a year, including $200,000 in base salary and $400,000 in incentives including television and radio shows and shoe and clothing deals. 
"At my age, this gives me some security," said O'Leary, 
52. "It's a six-year rollover with a buyout which really means I'm here until they don't want me anymore. It gives stability to your program, to the recruiting base and to the coaches and that's what's On Tuesday, South Carolina essential to winning." , received permission to discuss 

O'Leary, who guided the No. its coaching vacancy with 12 Yellow Jackets to a 9-2 O'Leary. record this season and chosen Tech athletic director Dave Atlantic Coast Conference Braine said-the contract coach of the vear, talked with should keep O'Leary from Auburn about its vacancy looking at other jobs and with before that school hired the Yellow Jackets "through­Tommy Tuberville of out the remainder of his Mississippi. career. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. tO 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
---... Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Lafortune to pick up an application  tic.$225  incl. guards  
NOTICES  to receive an invitation.  SEEKING CHILD CARE IN MY HOME for 2 well-behaved chil­ Room for Rent in Turtle Creek apartments.Call 273-2435.  219-862-2082  only used twice $85.00 1-7662  
Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  ILOST & FOUND I  dren.1-3 Days A Week, 7:30-5:30.11 lnterested, Call 631­7051.  Roommates Needed ND Apts Call X4415  Smith Corona Word Processor Like New $100 OBO  PERSONAL  
Awesome  Sitter for CUTE young boys for next  House for rent, near ND /SMC,  x1554  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  LOST: A SMC '98 class ring,  sem. 9-10 hrs/wk. Must be avail  3 bdrm, sm. garage, gas heat,  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  engraved Megan E. Driscoll.  Mon. alts.  CA, fenced yard, nice area, is  Break"  
Air,Hotel,Meals &Parties  REWARD! Please call 273-9155.  other hrs flex. Need car. 237-1981  available JAN '99, rent $600.m  For Sale:  Spring Break Packages are going  
$339!Panama City Room With  Thank you!  W/D. Call 219-923-7246.  Digitech RP-20 Floor Effects  fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica  
Kitchen,7 Free Parties  
 Processor/Preamp  Packages for the Class of '99!Stop  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!springbreaktravel.com 1 ·800-678-6386  ....A-CT_N_~-w-,:-AN_LL-~-0:-~-E-ST_ .... l I  FOR RENT  1  ......1 =FO=R=S......AL-==,E,----....,  Only 1 year old, ex. condition. List: $799.99, asking $450.00 or b/o. Call 287-9910, ask for Brendan  in at Anthony Travel in the Lafortune Student Center and check out the best Spring Break vacations around.Get your deposit  
#1 Spring Break Specials!Book  SPRING BREAK PRICES TO  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  in by Dec. 18 and save. Don't take a  
Early & Receive a Free Meal  SOUTH PADRE (FREE  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  198 MIN. $20  IDEAL CAR for college.Maroon 4-dr  chance with an unknown agency or  
Plan'!!Cancun & Jamaica  MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­ TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  CALL 258-4805  Olds Calais.Automatic. $4100 OBO  some 1-800 number.Limited space  
$399,Bahamas $459,Panama City  WEST,PANAMA CITY.REPS  call 232-5398  availat:.le,so book now!  
$99.  NEEDED/TRAVEL FREE,EARN  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­ FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  Anthony Travel.Inc.  
1-800-234-7707  CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR  rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  8cd box set. not available in  LaFortune Student Center  
endlesssummertours.com  6+.  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  PRINTER  631-7080  
WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  1,2,3,4,5;6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  Canon Bubble Jet BJ-200ex  
800-838-8203.  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­ MAC Powerbook145 $400OBO  incl. IBM cable and 2 cartr.  
ATTENTION JUNIORS!!!  TIES.272-6551  x2116  $80.00 1-7662  Join the ND Ski Club  
By now, all letters of invitation have  ?s call 277-6780  
been sent for JPW. If your family  House for rent, 105 Marquette,  Beautiful brass bed.queen size,with  
has not received their invitation,  HELP WANTED: Parisi's  5 bedrooms, available now and for  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  MEN'S FIGURE SKATES  
stop by the JPW Office in 206  Restaurant call 232-4244 ASAP  next fall, 232-6964  frame.New.never used,still in plas- Riedell Size 11  


-.-------~ ~_..--,.ww----.•------~­
Friday, December 4, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ COLUGE FOOTBALL 


Former USC coach Robinson takes job at UNLV 
LAS VEGAS 

.John ll11bi11son knows sonw­lhing about coaching onn of tlrn elite I.muns in college foot­ball. lln's about to get an edu­cation on coaching onn of the worst. 
llohi11s1111 rntur11ncl to eollngn fooLlrnll Thursday artnr a one­yPar ahs1mcr., taking charge of' a LINLV f'ouLball program that is alJOul us bad as any of tlrn door mats Hobinson's Soulhnrn Calif'ornia tnams pl!,LYt,id ov1ir tlrn years. . 
Wn havn to crnate a 1111racln or a senst! of' passion first off," llobinson said. "We've lost a lot of' f'oothall games and we hav" to he willing to change," 
Tiu• 63-yimr-olcl l'nrnwr USC and Los Angelns Hams coach was given a thrcr.-year ron­l.rarl at $350,000 per season lo I.urn around thn f'ortunns of' a ll1drnl learn that went win­lnss this ynar and has lost its last l<i gamns. 
lln admillncl the job looms largn, but said changes in the dnpth of collnge football pro­grams have changed thn odds of' turning around programs 
.. :.::::.::::·,_._··.... ···::.::::.:::.... \ :::··.::: '··•.":-: .·,.:_
.·•· . ··• ; '· ,, ' . '. .. ) 
_:· .•,• :' .,_· ; 
. :: :: 

Fr. Hesburgh
,•·· . ..•:•,:

'E:ET. '.-. ~~:;. . =~:-.-:w.·, .,: \. '. _.)­
and Michael O'Brien 

will be signing copies of the book: 


Hesburgh 
A Biography 
1:00 pm 
Friday, December 4 in the bookstore. 
THE HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 

BOOKSTORE 
On the Campus Phone: 631-6316 
www.ndbookstore.com 
'.!4 fascinating examination of the Hesburgh era and his towering legacy ofservice to his church, hls co1111try, and 
. fi l'' . . ,,
l'Jts e ,0111 r1t1zens. 
Published by: 

-Today's Catholic 
The Catholic University of America Press.,. 
from when he first started coaching. 
"In college football now it can happen. Twenty years ago, it couldn't happen," lfobinson said. "Th<, powr-rs then were the powers and the have-nots were the have-nots. That's not true now. Every time I look around I see pro­grams making rapid changes," 
Hobinson capped a whirl­wind two-week courtship with UNLV by agrneing to a con­tract that will return him to coaching a year after he was l'ir!1d from USC after a final two years in which his teams Wt!nl a combined 12-11. 
lI<\ appeared at a news con­l't!rt!nce with UNLV president Carol Harter and at.hl!1tic dirnctor Charll!S Cavagnaro with the enthusiasm hn will noed to turn around a pro­gram that not only loses but draws only a few tho us and fans lo its games. 
"It's ridiculous for us to make some lofty predictions," Hohinson said. "But UNLV football will be on tho move. We arc going to be second to none and we 're going to recruit the best players possi­
hie." 

The new coach inherits a team with no proven quarter­back and little depth on either side of the ball. But the uni­versity is ronovating its 40,000-seat stadium, and is one of the founders of the new Mountain West football con­ference that begins play next season. 
Robinson, whose wife, Linda, sat next to him. said his recruiting connections in the Southern California area should pay dividends at UNLV, which rocused without success on Los Angeles-area players in the pasL 
lie admitted he was taking a chance by returning to the game, but said he was enthu­siastic about moving to a city he visits often and finds excit­ing. 
"Anytime you have the opportunity to gamble on yourself, it is the best thing you can do," Hobinson said. "It gives us a chance to put ourselves 011 the line. We're all at our best when we put our­selves on the line." 
Robinson, who will not be retaining any of UNLV's for­
mer staff, said he has talked to some possi­ble assistant coaches but has not made any hires yet. 
Cavagnaro said he spent the last few days negotiat­ing a contract with Robinson, the only coach given serious consideration by a selection committee. Cavagnaro had earlier set a late December date as a dead­line for naming a coach, and said even he was surprised 
Courtesy of USC Sports Into by how quickly Robinson brings a 104-35·4 collegiate record to the deal came UNLV and will replace Jeff Horton, whose UNLV together. team went 0-11 this season. 

"Two weeks ago, I had no idea how incred­ibly fast this procedure would lead to this afternoon," he said. 
Robinson replaces .Jeff 
Horton. fired last month aftnr an 0-11 season that put his live-year record at 13-44. 
Robinson is the nation's sixth-winningest active coach with a career record in college of 104-35-4. Ironically, he won his 100th college game against UNLV last year. 
Robinson first coached at USC in 1976. and his Trojans won the national title in 1978. lie left for the NFL in 1983 and coached the Hams to two NFC championship games in nine years. 
Robinson returned to USC in 1993, and his team won the Hose Bowl over Northwestern two years later. Rut he was fired from the university after two mediocre seasons and reported problems with the school's athletic director. 
Hobinson said he plans to meet with team members next week, after going to Florida to be a radio analyst for the UCLA-Miami game on Saturday. He said he and his wife were looking for a home to buy in Las Vegas. 

All Shows Before 6 PM $4.IXJ ~4.00 Children/Seniors $6.50 Adult Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
Babe Pig In the City G 2:00, 2:40. 4:30, 5:00, 7:10. 7:35, 9:25, 9:55 
Home Fries Pg-13 3:00. 5:20, 7:50, 10:00 Jerry Springer A 1:50, 4:10, 7:15, 9:30 Pleasantvllle PG-13 2:00, 4:45, 7:40, 10:20 
I Still Know What You Did A 2:05, 3:05, 4:25, 5:25 7:20. 7:55, 9:50, 10:15 
1"11 Be Home For Christmas PG 1:45, 3:50. 5:55 
The Waterboy PG-13 1:55, 2:35, 4:05, 5:05, 7:00, 7:30, 9:15, 9:45 
The Wizard of Oz G 
2:10, 4:35 
The Siege R 
2:45, 5:15. 7:05, 8:00, 9:55, 10:30 American History X R 2:30, 5:10, 7:45, 10:25 Celebrity R 2:20, 4:55, 7:25, 10:10 What Dreams May Come PG-13 7:50. 10:30 

-
!OOAYI n,11 ON1, FOUi DAY ~OV~'l(I nmr SAllS ijAl,Dlm ~((ISll!HI •~o Pl.ISi) ' hO lu'IRIAV!t! 


tt4--22 











University ofNotre Dame
• 



rces 

.----.. 
elChoir 
Presents: 
-Washington R ______ December06, 1998 7:00pm $3 Students $5 GeneralAdmissions 
For more information please contact AprilDavis orJosephJoy at 219.631.3063 
Friday, December 4, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ NBA 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
..
Jordan returns to labor talks 
Molitor hangs it up 

Assm.:iatcd Press 
Nl!WYOHK 

Michael Jordan was back at the bargaining tabln Thursday as NBA labor talks rnsumcd. Wlwlher his magic touch could savn Urn snason rnnrninnd to be SHOil. 
.Jordan's presence was promising, howevnr, since his agnnt said ho wouldn't get involwd again until discussions gut s1ffious. 
"llis undorstanding was that a 1ww proposal was going to Im mad<'" by U1e owrwrs, agent David Falk said, "and he want­ml to he tlwrc to listen to it. You nm mad into it that hn's continuing to be involved and supportive of' the union leader­ship." 
During tho first fnw hours or one of tho longest sossious yet, com111issio1wr David Stern maclci another pica to save tlrn snason. 
/\!so. arcording to a player who was in the meeting, Madison Square Garclnn prnsi­d1mt David Chnclrntts sparrnd with union lawyers, and Jordan did not get as involv(HI as Im did whnn Im attnnclnd Oct. 28. 
No 110w formal proposals wnrn put forward as the sidns mos ti y covnnHI old ground. Still. they knpt talking past 11 p.m., making it tlwir longest snssion y,~l of' llw five-month lockout. 
.Jordan l1dl early in the !\Veni11g, and rnlunrnd about lhn•ci lwurs lat(~r to tlw gltHi of a small crowd gatlrnrnd outsich~ a hotiil arross from NB/\ hrmd­quartc)rs. 
Jll S l a r.. W hO ll r S ear Ii CI', slrangcdy onough. hardly noticml wlH•n one of the grnal­est peacernakl'rs in !\merican history -fornrnr Sm:retary ol' Stale llnnry Kissinger ­wa!kml across lhn V!ffY samn stretch of sid.iwalk. 
Trying to end the dispute that threatens to wipe out the entire s1mson, the sides spent the first two hours meroly "feeling each other out," Stern said, then went bar.k to work after a lunch break. The bargaining session was the first in 13 days with both l'ull negotiating commit­tees in attendance. 
If llrn owners and players can't romn up with a solution in the next few weeks, the entire 1998-99 snasc,n likely will be cancolod. 
.lorda!l's arrival marked the l'irst time Im had joined the talks since Oct. 28, when he spent about 8 1/2 hours at the bargaining table and tried to help broker a deal. 
The sides mnt one other time since then, on Nov. 20, and callnd it their most. productive session lo date. But things quir.kly unravelnd. 
Pmssure for a settlem(mt and panir. over thn fate of tho sea­son increased in recent days, with former union president Isiah Thomas suggHsling that Billy Hunter and Patrick Ewing bfi rnplaced as the union's IP.ad negotiators. 
"Tlm one nrnssage I know he (Jordan) is delivering emphati­cally is that people like Isiah can sit on the sidelines and crit­icize, but when you are in the game it's harder," Falk said. 
The lirst ordor nl' major busi­ness was to dncide whether to continue negotiating under the framework that the sides had discussed in two previous ses­sions -a six-or seven-year agreement with a complicated "escrow tax" systnm in the final three or four years. 
The proposals put on the table Nov. 20 would include players having 10 or 15 percent of their paychecks withheld if spending on overall player salaries exceeded a targeted peromtage of revenues. 
The owners have asked for a 50-50 split, while the players ha\'C tied many of their conces­sions to receiving 60 percent. 
The owners moved to 53 per­cent on Nov. 20 and the players dropped to 57 percent, but those concessions became void under the ground rules that have bnen set for the new talks. That is, nverything discussed at the Nov. 20 meeting is disre­garded. 
"This lockout won't end until the owners get as much as they can out of the players," Alonzo Mourning of the Miami lleat said as he arrived for the renewed talks. "It comfls down to greed on lheir part." 
"I think we've given up way morn than enough and we've compromised way more than enough. It's time for us to dig our heels into the ground and make a stand. It's time for them to try to meet us halfway, and I don't think they've done that at all," Mourning said. 
Hunter said he was hoping to continue working within the same proposed framework, but deputy commissioner Russ Granik, the owners' lead nego­tiator, has suggested it may be time to throw it out and start from scratch. 
"Maybe something has changed, but right now I can't be very optimistic," Granik said upon his arrival. "We've taken a few (steps) back since our last meeting, so we'll see. There's a sense of' urgency. but the owners have said they won't operate our business in a way that makes no financial sense." 
So far, the first two months of the season have been scrapped while the sides tried to decide how lo divide about $2 billion in projected annual revenues. 



K E E N A N 
THIS WEEK KEENAN HALL PRESENTS 
8 :~t;:a~ Q ~ ~ ~ e 
Instruction Available from 9:30-10:30 

~ 

Lafortune Ballroom Saturday Dec. 5th 9:30-1 :30 
A d m is s ion : $2 o r 2 ca n n e d fo o d i t e ms Questions: Cnll Mike x3267 or Kevin x3274 


UNDERGROUND 
after 21-year career 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Paul Molitor cotJldn't bring 
hims!,ilf Jo say tho word: 
retirement. 
That's what he meant, he 
just wouldn't say it. Linda Molitor actually was the first to 'Use the precise word, let­ting ii slip out between sips of expensive champagne , Thursday long after her hus­band had announced the end of his 21-year playing career. 
The word eventually set­
f;led on Molitor, though, but 
he admitted it will take 
longer to get used to the 
idea. 

. , ''.When yoµ stop playing is ·one thing," he said. ''When you emotionally let go of the game usually is another time 
removed." 
At 42, Molitor reluctantly 
put an end to a sparkling 
career that spanned exactly 
hal(his life and left him to be 
remembered as one of the 
greatest hitters in baseball 
history, 
His wife wanted him to 
play another year. His agent 
tried to convince him to play 
another year. But Molitor 
decided to take his 3,319 hits 
-eighth on the career list ­
and find out what else the 
game has to offer someone 
, who a,ppears certain of el1,c­
tion to the Hall of Fame. 
"My heart tells me I've 
done what I can do on the 
field and in this game," 
Molitor said. "I'm happy to 
leave it playing my last sea­
son in a Twins uniform.... 
Now I'm going to redirect my 
efforts to find out what else 
the future holds." 
One of three St. Paul 
natives to star in the majors 
at the same time -Dave 
Winfield and Jack Morris 
were the others -Molitor 
turned down playing offers 
from Milwaukee and Toronto 
before deciding,to retire. 
Now he is weighing front­
office offers from the 
Brewers, the team he spent 
his first 15 seasons with, and 
Minnesota, where he played 
his final three years after 
spending three in Toronto. 
Whatever job he takes for 
1999, Molitor wants to try a 
little bit of everything. 
"Almost an apprentice-type 
situation," he said, compar­
ing it to the role Minnesota 
native Kevin McHale filled 
with the NBA 's 
Timberwolves before taking 
over the. team's basketball 
operations in 1995, 
''That just makes a lot of 
sense to me,tt Molitor said, 
"to be ln a situation where 
you can have somebody teach you the roles, so to speak, and then climb if you desiro." 
Twins general manager Terry Ryan has drawn up a monthly brtHtkdown of duties Molitor would handle. If he stays home, Molitor would join another rntirtld Twins star -uxccutive vice presi­dent Kirby Puckett -in spe­cially tnllored front·offlce jobs. 
Molitor has no time frame for his decision, although he said he might wait until next season is underway, giving the Twins time to sort out their uncertain futun1. Molitor also said his wife has casually, started to look for a home in the Milwaukee aroa. 
Thl-1 Twins want a new sta­dium and agreed lo.st sum­mer to a new lease at the Metrodome that could expire after the 2000 season. If tho Twins can't resolve that uncertainty, Molitor said he probably would go else­where. 
"Maybe if all things were equal, I would decide to stay here," he said. "But the vul­nerability and the possibility of that breaking down in the next few years is a concern." 
For most of his career, it seemed it was Molitor's body that was on tho verge of breaking down. 
He missed more than 500 games during his career, nearly all of them during his years with ihe Brewers, But he finally won a World Series with Toronto in 199a -he was the Serles MVP -and retires alongside Ty Cobb and Honus Wagner as the only players with 3,000 hits, 600 doubl!-is and 500 stMls. 
Fittingly, Molitor singled in his final at-bat last season. 
"I think I've done what I can do on the field in terms of fulfilling everything I pos­sibly could have dreamed of' in major league baseball," he said. 
Although Molitor came to announce his retirement ­and although he eventually even allowed himself to use the word -he still joked about returning. 
Asked one last time if it could accurntely be reported that ho said he had retired, Molitor said, ''As long as you don't rip me if I come back next September for a con­tender." 
Still, he did what he intended to do Thursday. He said goodbye. 
"It's been a great ride," he said. 'Tm thankful. and thanks for tho memories." 

All Shows Before SCOTTSDALE
6 pm Everyday!
$ 1QQ C I N E M A 
ONLY • Scottsdale Mall• South Bend • 299-6063 st50 Evening Shows FREE REFILL on Popcorn &Soll Drinks! ':f b. 

BRIDE OF ~

WHATD~MS 
MAYCOME


s~rtfi€~5 
CHUCl(_Y

Rosu; WltllA.\IS [l!.ijJ
••llf 111111111 wn B 4:20 7:00 9:30 
5:00 7:30 9:45 Sat. & Sun. Mat. I:45 
4:40 7:1 S 9:50 
Sat. & Sun. Mat. 2:30

Sat. & Sun. Mat. 2: I 0 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 4, 1998 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 


Fans should be proud of 1998 football squad 
By TED FOX 
Sporrs Writer 

We were so close, and yet, according to some. still so far awav. 
He.ading into last Saturday night's regular season finale against arch-rival USC on the Trojans' home turf, the Notre Dame football team still enter­tained hopes or a Bowl Championship Series (BCS) bid.L:nfortunately for the Irish, the team's 9-1 record did not improve to 10-1, as USC prevailed in a defensive battle. 10-0. 
Despite ABC commentator Bob Griese's optimism, saying that the Irish rould still make plans to travel to the land of the BCS even ¼ith the loss, most everyone knew that this opportunity no longer exist­ed.Sure enough, the Irish accepted a bid to the Gator Bowl earlier this week, setting up a New Year's Day matchup against Georgia Tech.And while this means less money for the University and the loss of a top-10 finish, perhaps even the loss of a national title for some dreamers out there, it's not all doom and gloom, as some would like us to believe. 
Heading the Dec. 7 issue of Sports Illustrated, I came across Tim Layden's article "Plight of the Irish," which spoke of a decline in Notre Dame football in recent years. For him, the USC loss was just another blow to a suffering program. 
I don't think so. Yeah, we we 're all disappointed with missing a big bowl, with losing to a longtime rival, with some close calls against some below-average teams. I was just as frustrated as anyone else.But look at what this team did do.It came into the season ranked at the bottom of, or not even in, the top 25. Around these parts, that's simply not acceptable. The response? 
Beating defending national 

champion Michigan, 3n-20, in 
the season opener in the 
biggest win at Notre Dame 
Stadium since Florida State in 
1993. Growing up a Notre 
Dame fan in the Ann Arbor 
area, this was especially sweet 
for me. Thanks, guys. 
Posting a record of 9-2, 

with a fluky loss to Michigan 
State (hey, they beat Ohio 
State too, so something funny 
must have been going on) and 
one to the Trojans without 
starting quarterback .larious 
Jackson. Insert an eight-game 
winning streak into that peri­
od. 
Going the entire season 

undefeated at home, despite 
flying amphibians in the stands and the crackdown on beach balls and inflatable Goldberg dolls. 
featuring Autry Denson and his quest tu set the l\otre Dame career rushing record, which he did by passing Allen Pinkett in a 30-0 win over Navy. 
Sporting a defense that made incredible stands throughout the year, high­lighted by the stymieing of Boston College on four­straight plays inside the five in the waning seconds to secure a 31-26 victory. 
Being in the running for a BCS bid until the last quarter of the last game or the season, and even when falling short, still locking up a spot in a New Year's Day bowl game.Establishing a firm foundation for the future with a solid freshman class, headed by defensive end Anthony Weaver.In short, these Irish stepped up to the challenge and responded with a success­ful season, accomplishing a lot more than many people expected. 
Holiday Shopping For A Golfer On Your list? 
-'99 Preferred Player's Guide To Indiana Golf 
The complete list of golf courses and 
FREE & DISCOUNTED GOLF from across Indiana. 
S24.95perbook 
(+ tax & shipping and handing) 
Includes gift card 
&direct shipping 
call today to order 

888-670-9349 

. The Observer/Liz Lang Notre Dame all-time leading rusher Autry Denson breaks free from LSU defenders during the Nov. 21 game at home. The Irish take on Georgia Tech at the Gator Bowl Jan. 1. 
Deloitte & Touche 
will host summer 
internship interviews on 
January 26 and 27. 
We look forward 


to meeting you! 
Deloitte& 



Tonche 0 
l"O/llat:41 Mit~t regard to race, ;ibi"lifioFveterilfl status. 



Friday, December 4, 1998 The Observer• SPOB.T_S__________ _______ page 19 
¦ NFL ¦ SAINT MARV'S BASKETBALL 

Eagles edge Rams Saint Mary's to face Kendell 
Belles host
17-14 behind Detmer 

inaugural
Assodatc<l Press of' empty seats at the Vet to chner Fryar, who hadn't l'I 11 LADE! .Pl II;\ scored a touchdown since Dec. Roundball On a night whnn Dick 7, 1997 against the New York V<'l'llll'il came hack to Llw Vnt, Giants. One last surge got No. 

tournament
Irving Fryar found his way 80 over the goal line. ha<'k lo th!! !\IHI zone. With the long-awaited TD. 
By MOLLY MCVOY
l;ryar (:aught his first touch­Fryar tied Fred Biletnikoff and 
Sports Writer 
down pass in nearly a ynar, a llarold Jackson for 15th on (i I-vanlnr from Koy Det.mnr in th1\ earner list with 76. 
Its not the Final Four, but
tlw· third quartnr as thn Fryar lay on his stomach for 
the four-team basketball tour­
P h i I ad 11 I p h i a E a gI n s lw a t a moment in the end zone, 
nament Saint Mary's is hosting
VPrmeil's St. Louis Hams 17-then sat on the bench with 
this weekend holds major14 Thursday night. shoulders heaving as team­
importance for the Belles' sea­
It was V1irnrnil's first game mates George !lngamin and son.
at Vntnrans Stadium since hn Kevin Turner congratulated The First Annual Inn at
last c'.oa1·lwd tl11i Eagl,is in him. 
Saint Mary's Roundball Classic
1982. l.ikn Vnrmnil's old It was a long, long wait. 
marks the first time in the col­
1,:agl1is tParns, the Hams didn't Inspired, Urn Eagles madP 
lege's history that there hasqui1 whnn Fryar's TD gavll two fourth-down conversions been a major basketball tour­
l'hiladnlphia (3-10) a 17-(J on their next possession, 
nament with corporate spon­
lnad with 7: 18 lnfl in tlw third. including a gutsy fourth-and-1 sors.
Tony Banks hit .J.T. Thomas from their own 35 on Delmer's 
Four teams will enter the -onn ol' a hodgnpodgn of 5-yard pass to Solomon. Hut tournament, Kendell College,
rP1:niVPrs carrying tlw load for Chris Boniol, whose 50-yard Bethel College, Doan_c College
injunid Isaac Bruen -for 41 l'inld goal at the end of the and Saint Mary's.
yards to thn Eaglns 10. ,l111w lirst quarter made it 1CH), had Only one will leave the
Ilnnlny scornd from thn I. and a 46-yard attempt blocked by 
champion.
Banks hit Hicky Pronhl for a 2-K1wi11 Cartnr. 
The Belles enter this tourna­
poinl convmsion that cut it to Former Eagles owner 
ment ranked ninth in the.
17-14 with 11:04 lnft. Leonard Tnse stood on tlrn MIA;\ with a record of 2-4.
t\f't1ir l'hiladnlphia puntnd, !tams sidnline with Vcrmeil. 
This tournament offers a vari­Banks hit Thomas again with Tose hirnd Vermeil to coach 
ety of opponents and an 
a 17-yard c·ompl1itio11 on lhird­the Eagles in 1976 and was 
opportunity for Saint Mary's toand-12. But tlw driw stallnd. still tlrn owner when Vermeil kick off a winning streak.
and .Jpff Wilkins' 52-yard f'i1ild Ind Philadnlphia to the Super "I think a lot of what hap­
goal attn111pt was widn left Bowl in 1980. 
pens this weekend depends on
with 4: 15 to go. Vermnil is 8-21 since as 
what kind of attitude we have
Though most of' thn l'ans had coach of thn Hams. Across the 
coming in," assistant coach
In ft V n t ll rans Sta cl i u Ill, th n sidelinn, Hay Rhodes improvnd Denny Atkins said. "This is ourga1111\ still nwant sonwthing to to I O -I 8 -1 sin cI! his 2 0 -12 
first big home matchup and
V1·r1111dl. Th<' (>2-yPar-old start -but still is virtually 
that will be a big motivator."
roal'h slapp1·d his cliphoard assttrecl uf' being gone aftor 
The first game is at 6 p.m.
against his IPgs wlwn thn hall the smtson. flut l.1•r1•d will«'. 
In a final march, Banks hit Thomas for 17 yards lo tho Philad1dphia :{5 on a l'ourth­and-2 play as timl' nxpirnd. 
llPlnwr. who had tlrn Eaglns' first two Tl> passns to wide , 



Havana Joe·s
rl'r,•iwrs lasI wonk in a 24-1 h loss at <;n•Pn Bay. was 17-l'or­South Bend·s Laraest Cii!ar Store 
:n for I h'J yards and two ·' mor1i TDs. IIt• hil FrtidcliP Solomon for a 
Storewide Cigar &Ac:cessory Sale 
7-yard srorn to 111ak1• it 7-0 Party in tlw lirst. l>uc•p StalPV rush1•d 28 limns 
• Great Holiday Gift Packs 
fur 1) 1) yards for l'hiladl'lphia, whil'lt snapped a s1W<!11-~ame 
•Premium Cigar Box Specials
losing strnak on national TV. llanks was 22-f'or-37 for 255 
• Unique Humidors
yards, and Amp !.,in had l'ivn 1:atcl11•s for 7 I yards. Thn Hams Ll-10) lost tlwir fourth •Fine leather cases slraigh1 and snv1•nth in night gallli'S. 
• Cigar shirts &Hats 
l;ry .. r. who had t!w lougPst rusl; ol' his carPPr 011 a • Gift Certificates
32­yard 1•111l-aro1111d in th<' l'irst ~,i, quarti,r, got 01w11 down tlrn ~ 
right sicl1!li111• on lhird-a11cl-(J ~ 
ND Students free cutter with $10.00 purchase
l'rom thn Hams :{(J midway ~ thrnugh tlw third quartrir. Tlw ~ (Bring ID):1<,-y(\ar-old rnc1!iv1ir brokP a ~ tac: k IP. got a b I ock from ¢·~· 
~~· 

r1•c1dvl'r .IPIT (iraharn and , 
273-9153 • 2036 SR 23 • South Bend • Open 7 Days aWeek 
sprintPd down tlw sidnlirw. ~ 
Hours: Mon 4-8 Tues-Wed: 11-7 Thur-Sat: I0-8 Sun: 12-5 
Fans stood amid thousands 
Challenge Yourself! 

VOLUNTEER PROGRAM needs men and women to share in-rw .,:~:µt New York City or the Boston area. 
•Use your skills and talents while developing new ~i 
•Community living offers opportunity for perso1ial 
•Housing, board, and a liveable stipend all incli.l 
Little Sisters of the Assumption 
Contact: Voluntt:er Coordinator 214 E.30th St. New York, NY. 10016 (212) 889-4310 email: littlesrs@aol.com website: www.littlesisters.org 
http://www.nd.edu/-webcast 
Monday1 Decembet< 71 1998 
12:00 -2:00 f-7H1 
F~e.e. ofC/h<01~9,el 
To register call Cindy Swonger at 1-6616 or Swonger.1 @nd.edu 
FREE REFILL on All Sizes of Popcorn & Soll Drinks! 

. 0 :  Advance Ticket Sales Available rl l.$4 00 • Alt Shows Belo.re 6 pm ;./ C\, , • Students •Seniors  ; : ,  Enemy of the State [1:15)4:15, 7:00, 9:40  R  
Psycho  R  Anlz  PG  
[2:30] 5:15, 7:40, 10:00  [2:15)4:45, 6:45, 9:00  
Very Bad Things [12:30, 3:00] 5:30, 7:50, 10:10 Bug's Life  R G  Something About Mary [2:00] 4:30, 7:15, 9:45  R  
[1.10, 2:1013:45. 4:40, 6:30,  
7:00, 8:50, 9:20  
Babe Pig in the City  G  
[1 :00, 2:00] 4:00, 4:30, 6:20. 6:50, 8:45. 9: 15 Enemy of the State [1 :50] 4:45, 7:45. 10:30 Jerry Springer Rign Master  R R  ONLY $1 00 All Shows Betore 6pm• Everyone• Everyday $1,50 All Evening Shows :J 6..  
[12:50, 3: 15] 5:40, 8:00, 1O: 15  
Rugrats [12:00, 1 :30, 2:15] 3:50, 4:30, 6:15, 6:45, 8:30, 9:00 Home Fries [12:20, 2:40] 5:00, 7:20, 9:40 American History X [2:05I 4:50, 7:30, 10:05 Meet Joe Black  G PG-13 R PG-13  Bride of Chucky [2:30] 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 A Night at the Roxbury [2:50) 5:10, 7:?JJ, 9:35 Small Soldiers [1 :45) 4:20 7:00 9:30 What Dreams May Come  R PG-13 PG-13 PG-13  
[12:1514:10, 8:10  [2:10]4:40, 7:15, 9:50  
I Stilt Know What You Did Last  R  Blade  R  
[12 10, 2:45] 5:20, 8:05, 10:40  [1 :50] 4:30, 7:10, 9:40  
The Waterboy  PG-13  Dr. Dotittle  PG-13  
[2:00] 4:25, 7: 15, 9:30  (2:40]4:45, 6:50, 9:00  
The Siege  R  
7:10, 9:50  Tll1'10S in (brackets] Saturday and Sunday  
Antz  PG  Matinee only  

[12:40, 2:50] 5:10 
Now! Students and Seniors $4_00 Anytime 
at the Showplace HI end Town I Country theatre• 


tonight when Doane faces Bethel in the first round of the tournament. Saint Mary's will also play tonight. facing Kendell at 8 p.m. 
"We just want to win the first game." head coach Dave Hoedcr said. "After that, other things will happen." 
The Belles are not coming into this game without any history or background on their opponents. 
Saint Mary's played Bethel last season and won by 20 points. They have not faced Kendell or Doane in recent history. Doane was ranked second in the nation at the end of last season. 
Tho winners of tho first round will play oach other in the championship game on Saturday at 3 p.m. The conso­lation game will be at 1 p.m. 
The players are looking for­ward to this tournament and playing in their home gym. 
"This weekend will be excit­ing," sophomore starter Julie Norman said. "We have a new floor, new lights and a new scoreboard." 
After this W<)ckcnd, the Belles rnturn to regular sea­son play. 
They have a home confer­ence game versus Olivet on Wednesday and then return to tho road. 
int Mary'soundball Classic·· 


Friday 12/4 6:00 pm 
0a:ne College vs. Bethel College 


Saturday 12/5 8:00 pm 
St. Mary's vs. Kendell College CQnsolation Game l pm 
page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, December 4, 1998 
¦ BASEBALL 



Irish schedule includes home series with Miami 
.,.. 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame baseball team has released its 1999 spring schedule, fifth-year Irish head coach Paul Mainieri announced on Tuesday. 
The Irish are limited to play­ing 55 games in the spring of '99, one below the !\CAA max­im um. due to the Sept. 12 game versus Michigan State. That 9-3 win over the Spartans counted against the spring game total for both teams but the result will not count to either team's won­loss record or be factored into NCAA tournament considera­tion. 
Notre Dame's 1999 home highlights at Frank Eck Stadium will include the home opener versus Western Michigan on March 23, a three-game series with peren­nial Big East Conference Tournament participant Seton Hall (April 24-25) and a pair of late-season games with national power University of Miami (Fla.) on May 11-12. 
Road highlights include extended return visits to Miami, Fla., New Orleans, La. and San Antonio, Texas. a game versus the University of Dallas at The Ballpark at Arlington (home of the major­league Texas Rangers). chal­lenging Big East series at West Virginia and St. John's and a third straight matchup with Michigan at Old Kent Park in Grand Hapids, Mich. 
The ultimate highlight of the 1999 season could come at the end. as the NCAA tournament field will expand from 48 to 64 teams. Notre Dame has posted 40-plus wins in each of the past 10 seasons, advancing to the NCAAs during five of those seasons while just missing out on postseason play following the other five campaigns. 
The expanded NCAA field, which will free up more at­large spots, will include 16 regionals on May 28-30, with four teams competing at each regional in double-elimination format. In addition, the NCAA has announced its preference for more geographical diversi­ty during the regional round, thus increasing the possibility of NCAA postseason play in the midwest and eastern parts of the country. 
The 16 NCAA regional win­

ners then will advance to the 
"super-regional" round (June 
4-6). with eight teams each 
playing host to one other team 
in a best 2-of-3 series. The 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

•Used 
books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


super-regional winners then will head to Omaha, Neb. for the annual College World Series (June 11-19) 
Notre Dame's 1999 season is scheduled to open on Feb. 19 in Miami, Fla. with a neutral­site game versus James Madison at Florida International. The Irish then will face host FIU during a three-game series, from Feb. 19-21. 
The Irish. who played three games last season at the University of Miami, also will make a return trip to the state of Louisiana, as a participant in the University of New Orleans Invitational. with games versus Missouri (Feb. 26), the host Privateers (Feb. 
27) and Southern Illinois {Feb. 28). Notre Uame faced UNO and Loyola (La.) last season at Privateer Park. 
For the fourth consecutive season, '.'Jotre Dame will spend spring break at Wolff Municipal Stadium in San Antonio, Texas. The Irish again will move into the club­house of the AA San Antonio Missions and will open the week with games versus Penn State (March 6-7) and Yale (March 7). Those two teams then will join local team St. Mary's (TX) as participants in the annual Irish Baseball Classic, with the Irish facing St. Mary's on March 10, Creighton on March 11 and Penn State on March 12. The consolation and championship games will be held on March 13. 
One of the season's highlight games is scheduled for thP middle of Spring Break, as Notre Dame and the University of Dallas are slated to play on March 8 at The Ballpark at Arlington -the state-of-the-art home stadium of the Texas Hangers. 
Notre Dame's challenging 
Big East road slate begins with 
a three-game series at peren­
nial conference power West 
Virginia (March 20-21) and 
will continue with a challeng­
ing pair of doubleheaders at 
Villanova (March 27) and 
defending Big East champion 
Rutgers (March 28). 
The Irish then will then spend the next four weekends at Frank Eck Stadium for Big East series, beginning with Easter doubleheaders against Providence (April 1) and Connecticut (April 3), followed by three-game series versus Pittsburgh (April 10-11), Boston College (April 17-18) and Seton Hall (April 24-25). 
Notre Dame will conclude its quest for the Big East rcgular­seasou title with three-game series at Georgetown (May 8­
9) and top contender St. John's (May 15-16), which is set to return many of the top arms from one of the nation's leading pitching staffs in 1998. 
ln addition to the final home games versus Miami (May 11­12), Notre Dame also is sched­uled to play host to non-con­ference games with Western Michigan (March 23). Wisconsin-Milwaukee (March '.W), former Midwestern Collegiate Conference foe Detroit (April 5), Bowling Green (April 7). Cleveland State (April 14), Valparaiso (April 15), Jllinois-Chicago (April 27). Chicago State (April 

28) and Oakland (MI) University (April 30. May 1). 
The April 20 game between Notre Dame and Michigan will be played for the third straight season at Old Kent Park in Grand Rapids. Mich. -home of the AA West Michigan Whitecaps. 
Notre Dame also will make a midweek road trip to Northwestern on April 6. 
The annual Big East lourna­me n t will move to Mercer County Waterfront Stadium in Trenton. N . .J. -home of the Trenton Thunder (the M aff11­iate of the Boston Bed Sox). The tournament -which was held at minor-league Uodd Stadium in Norwich, Conn. for the previous three seasons ­will run from May 19-22, with the winner of the six-team, double-elimination event claiming the Big East's auto­matic berth in the NCAAs. 

Applyfor Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design O.ffice 
Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. 
Extensive application is not necessary. Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave your name and number or drop off a description of your design experience at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior preferred. 

r.----------~r----------,r--------,r---------------,
,&;~ Genuine Toyota S,;~, I Fuel &Air Induction Service I I Fl~sh &Fill I I 36 Month or Every 30,000 Service I 
1 Oil &Filter Change Service : 1·Cleans injectors : 1 Cooling Sy5tem I I -Intake v~lves, Throtlle hod~ I _Flush &Fill entire Cooling System
I Service includes: I I -Comhust10n (hamhe'. &Entire Fuel Syst~m I I .Inspect all belts &hoses I -up to 5qts. of I I -Recommended Service every 24,000 M,lesl • -Inspect water pump for leaks 
:-;~;~\;:~~~~~~~\I s1795 !! seg 95 ! : ·Pressu$re31estsygstem aher filled 
I .~ree v~hicl_e I I I I 
95 
I ms~ect,o_n included . ¦ I I . ¦ I I
L!/011!.'.'~ ~'!_ .!x~sE(~9.!J L ~n~t~ ~c!;~ ~ T? ~~ _J L ____ -~ __ 
Open Monday -Friday: 
7:30 a.m. -6;00 p.m. 
Saturday: 
8:00 a.m. -Noon 
WE'RE NOT HAPPY UNTIL YOU'RE HAPPY! 


: : Replace Air Filter -Adjust Idle, ~?st Idle, and -Replace Spark Plugslnew platinum) Throttle Pos1t1oner I I -Flush &Fill Cooling System -Adjust Valve Clearance I I -Service and Refill Transmission -Inspect Exhaust Pipes &!:-Re-pack Front Whseel2Beorigngs g"'filf  : I Il  
I I  I  
I I  ¦  I  

_J 
L _______________.J 
,.; 

ti; 
~ 
~ 
~

...
"' 
~ 
:3 
WESTERN AVE. 



333 W. Western Ave South Bend, IN 46601 

* NOTRE DAME STUDENTS-DON'T MISS THIS CHANCE TO RECIEVE AN ADDITIONAL 10% OFF THESE ALREADY REDUCED MENU PRICES, WHEN 
PRESENTING THESE COUPONS WITH A CURRENT STUDENT ID. • WE ALSO SERVICE ANY MAKE OF IMPORT • 

The Observer/Bret Hogan 

Diamondbacks close to signing Steve Finley 
Friday, December 4, 1998 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
Slatn. Two kny wins in that strPtch came against Northern 
Michigan and No. 8 Michigan 
Statn. 
Cmrnntlv. Notre l)anrn stands tiiid l'or s·;icond in tho CCIIA sta11cli11gs, and arn coming off a lay(lff of a w1wk and a half. Fort1111atnly f'or llw Irish, all of tlwir key injuries have lrnalcd, as Aniket Dhaclphalc. Byan Clark and .Jon Dushabi~k will all s1!11 rngular ic11 Lime this wock­
nnd. 
"Wn haven't playod in a whiln and tlw guys am anxious to get out on th1• icl~ again," said cap­tain Brian Urick. "Wn'rn excit­nd bccaustl nveryonu is lrnallhy again." 
The main ,~mphasis or the t,iam's practico this past wonk has brnrn the penalty kill. So far this suason, the penalty killing unit has b()en inconsistent if' not rlisappoint.ing; Notre Dame cur­rently ranks last in the CCIIA, opPrating at 81.:i percent nffi­ciency. 
"We shollld be bettor al punalty killing than we arc, with our personnel," said coach Poulin. "We've given up some key power play goals...We'vc focused on Llw penalty kill morn this week than any other time in my four years here." 
The Irish will look to imple­mon t a new system on the penally kill this weekend. The new svstnm calls ror a morn aggressivo styln of play. accen­tualing hard f'orechecking like lhe kind the learn saw against Mir.higan earlier this year. 
"Wn havn a lot of speed up l'ront, but w11'rn not utilizing it as much as we can by attacking dnepnr in their zone," Poulin 

Irish defender Sean Molina steals the puck in a recent game. The team plays its last games of 1998 this weekend in Ohio. 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
A,sociau,J f>rcss 
PII0ENJX Arizona just doesn't stop sprnading the hig bucks around. MLPr spPnding $95.6 million 
UNDERGRADS: 
DON'T MISS THIS OPPORTUNITY! 
BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER 'ABROAD' 
Slots still available for SPRING 2000 Open to all majors Interested students should pick up an application or call: 152A FITZPATRICK HALL, Xl-8376 or check this website http:/Jwww.hio2.edu 
to overhaul thnir pitching staff, the Diamondbacks had more money left and were on the vr.rgr. of signing center fielder Steve Finley to a !'our-year con­tract worth at least $20 million. 
The Observer• SPORTS 
said. 

This weekend's gamus are argllably the biggost ones of the first half for Notre Dame. Winning on the road in the CCIIA is a big enough chal­lenge, but facing a hot Buckeye team with its eyes on revenge makes it even tougher. Plus, the Irish rn~ecl to win in Columbus to show the nation that they are a bona fide contender for the NCAA Tournament. 
"Of course every [COIA) game is big, but these are key gamns for us to win and make a jump in the standings and show 
people  we 're for real," said  
Urick.  
One  key  player  in  the  

Buckeytl lineup is junior center Hugo Boisvert. Boisvert won the CCIIA scoring title last sea­son, and currently leads his tnam with 15 points. Last sea­son. he was one of U.S. College llockey 0nline's 25 finalists for the Hobey Baker Award, the most prestigious award in col­lege hockey (roughly equivalent to the Heisman Trophy). He is also considered one of the front-runners l'or this year's award as well. 
Perhaps an even morn impor­tant player on the Ohio State squad is 13oisvert's linemate, junior wing Erir Meloche. In addition to playing their first nine games of the season on the road, many of those first nine games were played without Meloche, who suffered an early-season injury. One of those losses was a 3-0 loss to Notre Dame on Oct. 23 at the Joyce Center. 
Meloche is a finesse player who is one of the most feared goal scorers in the COIA. In fact, he has played on the same line with teammate Hugo Boisvert for the last four years of his playing career, which includes two years in junior hockey (Cornwall Colts). Indeed, the two players feed off each other's playmaking abili­ties, as their chemistry has helped create one of the most lethal scoring combinations in college hockey. 
"Maybe this was supposed to happen," Finley said Thursday. "Arizona wanted me over there real bad." 
Finley's agent, Tommy Tanzer, said San Diego's offer was a little more than half of Arizona's -and the lowest of the six he received. A source said Thursday night that the Padres' offer was three years plus a vesting option, which would have paid a total of $16 million if the fourth year kicked in. 
"I think San Diego wanted me here, but they wanted me under their terms," Finley said from his home. "It was unfortunate that it's the way it happened, 
"As You Wish" 
JI Imports f~ Sweaters, Tapestries,Jewelry, Accessories Great Selection of Hemp jewelry & much morel Guatemala • Bali • Thailand • Mexico • Ecuador• Brazil• India HUGE CLEARANCE SALE!! free gift with every purchase!! <Offer Y¦ lid ooe time ,.1r 
Unbelievable Bargain Corner! 
•Proceeds from thi5 corner help send 4 Guatemalan children to school. 
.Q 
Other donatione; Greatly Appreciated LaFortooe-Room 108, Nov. :30-Dec. 4 10-5pm ~ 

The Observer/Brei Hogan Irish center Brett Henning moves the puck around opposing defenders in a recent game. Notre Dame is currently ranked second in the CHAA 
standings. 
Ohio State's roster boasts of size, speed, and most impor­tantly, depth. But Irish coach Dave Poulin said one of Ohio State's lesser known players may be one of its best. 
"One of their more interesting players is Chris Richards," Poulin said. "He was fifth in the league is scoring last year and he was a second line center. That gives you some idea of the depth of their team." 
One thing to note about the dilapidated Ohio State Ice Arena is its size, or lack there­of. The standard rink size in [college] hockey is 200 feet by 85 feet, and the Ohio State Ice Arena's sheet measures out at 185 feet by 85 feet. Obviously, open ice will be at a premium this weekend as the two teams will be forced to play a more physical game. 
Coach Poulin described the ice surface as similar in size to the one he played on in Boston 
but the game's a business." 
After helping San Diego reach the World Series for the first time since 1984, Finley was sur­prised the Padres offered him only a three-year contract worth about $12 million. 
"If I can't be in San Diego, Arizona is the next-best option," Finley said. "If San Diego doesn't contend the next few years and Arizona does, I want to play for a winner. That's where I'll be." 
Tanzer said the deal was pret­ty much together but details couldn't be completed Thursday. Owner Jerry Colangelo was at the NBA labor talks in New York (he also owns when he played for the Bruins. He said the games played on such a surface are ones of "constant contact," further accentuating the physical play to come this weekend. 
This weekend's games will b,i the last two ever played at the Ohio State Ice Hink, as the Buckeyes prepare to move into the Jerome Schottenstcin Center in 1999. The Schottenstein Center was sup­posed to be ready for the first half of this season, which is why Ohio State's first nine games of the year wure played away from home. 
In other team news, freshman sensation David Inman has been named to the U.S. Junior National team along with team­mate sophomore Dan Carlson. Carlson and Inman will follow in the footsteps of current teammates Ben Simon and Joe Dusbabek, who played for the squad the last two years. 
the Phoenix Suns) and general manager Joe Garagiola Jr. was at the baseball owners' meeting in Chicago. 
Finley hit a career-low .249 this year with 14 homers and 67 RBIs. Two years ago, Finley set career highs in batting average (.297), doubles (45). home runs 
(30) and RBIs (95) and won his second straight Gold Glove. 
"My year was not a bad year, it was inconsistent," Finley said of 1998. "I expect to be back up to my peak level. I do a good job of keeping my body in shape." 
Arizona was looking to replace the hole created when Devon White agreed to a $12.4 million, three-year contract with tlrn Los Angeles Dodgers. 
The Diamondbacks' offseason improvnmcnts caught the eye of' Finley, who visited Arizona on Nov. 23 but expecttid to stay with San Diego. On Tuesday, he called Tanzer and said, "Did you see what Arizona did'?" 
Arizona rcshapnd its rotation by signing Bandy Johnson to a $52.4 million, four-year con­tract, Todd Stottlmnyre to a $32 million, f'our-yPar doal and Armando Heynoso to a $5.5 mil­lion, two-year contract. 
SPRING BREAK'99 
HOURS & HOURS OF t'REI•; HRINKS! Eurn 2 FREE Trips & $$$$$? C11ncon,Jamairo, florida, Uarhadoo;, ll,1hamu, Lo"e,1 Pricn/llttl l\kul l'lan l-800-426-?710 / 1>nn.,u11,pla\hlour..com 


Former Northwestern players indicted for gambling 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Four former Northwestern University football players, including star tailback Dennis Lundy, were indicted Thursduy on charges of lying to federal grand juries investigating sports betting at the school. 
Lundy. C:hristophrr Gamble, Michael Senters and Gregory Gill were charged with perjury for lying about their relation­ship with student bookie Brian BallarinL 
"These four defendants fumbled their opportunity to participate in intercollegiate 
¦ SWIMMING 

athletics and to maintain the integrity of athletic competi­tion," U.S. Attorney Scott Lassar told a news conference. 
"Then they fumbled again and again when they had the opportunity to come clean and testify truthfully before the grand jury," Lassar said. 
Lundy, Gamble and Senters are accusod of lying abou l bets they ullegedly placed on Northwestern ·s 1994 game against Ohio State. Prosecutors did not specify which games Gill was accused of betting on. 
Lundy also was accused of lying when he denied that he deliberately fumbled in the 
Irish men's squad holds lead at Notre Dame Invite 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men ·s swimming and diving t<)am and the Michigan women's team lead their divisious after the first of thret' days at the Notre Dame Invitational at the Holt's Aquatic Center. 
The Irish lead with 391 points with Western Kentucky second with :127 and Florida State third with 289. Ball State (252). Michigan State (226), West Virginia (170) and Ohio University ( 149) round out the men's final. 
Michigan leads the women's competition with 360 points with Florida State second with 27 4 and Colorado State third with 269. Notre Dame (244), Ohio University (197). West Virginia (195 ), Michigan State (192), Western Kentucky (148) and Northern Michigan (115) round out the womenOs field. 
Second-place Western Kentucky swept both men's 

relays in pool record times. The llilltoppers won the 200­yard freestyle in 1:22.85 and thP 400-yard medley relay in 
3:20.69. Florida State took sec­ond in the 200-yard freestyle relay with Notn, Dame sPcond in the 400-yanl medley relay. 
Notre Dame built its lead by winning rour of the top six places in the 200-yard individ­ual medley, led by senior Scott Zumbach's winning time of 
1:51.67. The Irish also took three of the top five spots and four or the top nine in 500­yard freestyle, won by Michigan State's John Munley in 4:23. 77. Florida State's Julio Santos won the 50-yard freestyle in 20.81. 
Michigan opened the women's meet by winning the 200-yard freestyle relay in pool record time of 1:32.61 and fol­lowed that up with two more pool-record performances. Shannon Shakespeare won the 200-yard individual medley in 
Notre Dame 
Swimming Invitational 
Results After Day 1 
... 

1994 game against Iowa to make certain the team failed to cover the point spread_ Prosecutors said Lundy had bet on that game and on the Wildcats' game that season against Notre Dame. 
Northwestern coach Gary Barnett said he was shocked by the accusations. 
"It is a sad day when a foot­ball couch has to stand up in a press conference and comment on stuclent-alhldes who played for him and were charged with breaking the Jaw," Barnett said. " I had always believed in these individuals' commitment to our team, both on and off the field." 

Athletic Director Hick Taylor said that if the allegations are true, "those involved will have betrayed the very fabric of sport." 
All four defendants will be summoned to appear for an arraignment. prosecutors said. If convicted, each perjury court carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Lundy and Senters are charged w·ith one count; Gamble and Gill arc charged with two_ 
Lundy's alleged deliberate rumble came midway through the third quarter of the lowa 
game. Northwestern was inside the 1-yard line with a chance to cut into Iowa's 35-13 lead when Lundy fumbled a handoff from quarterback Steve Schnur. 
A teammate, defensive Rodney Ray, knew Lundy had a gambling habit and com­plained openly that Lundy fumbled intentionally_ A coach overheard Hay's accusation and an internal investigation was launched_ The findings were turned over to federal authorities who began the investigation possible point­shaving by Northwestern play­ers. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports lnformatlon Irish swimmer Scott Zumbach placed first in the 200-yard individual medley relay at the Notre Dame Invitational. The Notre Dame men are in first place with 391 points after two days of competition. 
1:59.73. and Jenny Crisman Colorado State second in individual medley, 100 buttm·­won 50-yard freestyle in 23.08. 3:50.37. fly, 200 freestyle, 100 breast-
Ohio University's Kim Van The meet continues on stroke, 100 backstroke, Seim swam 4:53.10 to claim Friday morning at the Rolfs women's three-meter diving the 500-yard freestyle race. Aquatic Center at 10:00 a.m. and 800 freestyle relay. Finals Notre Dame capped off the with preliminary competitions in all events with begin at 6:30 night by winning the 400-yard in the 200-yard medley relay, p.m. Friday evening. medley relay in 3:49.94, with men's one-meter diving, 400 
John M~ Marshall's, Inc~ 
Established 1965 
Diamond.s Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum~ 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler / Gemologist / Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Men's Basketball 
vs. 
Central Michigan 
Sat. Dec. 5 2:00pm 


f-riday. December 4, 1998 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
I Oil> 1T!  I Ctr> 1T.'  I 'THOUGHT FoR SURE I'r>  
I  RECo\lERED AI.L  NEVER 8E ABLE To CHASE  
&ES of' M'f' E5S~Y.1  nlEM DoWN 1N nitS WtND,  
BuT I GUESS WHERE lHERE  
A WILi., TliERE 'S A WA'f.  
RADE IS SAVED~  
I  
DILBERT  

NOW THAT 'tOU'VE. WON TI-IE. NO\,E.l ffit.ZE I l GUES~ YOU'LL LEAVE THE GAR~AG,E 
INDUSTRY. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 One maybe red. white or silver 
4 Bar placed across a guitar fingerboard 
aButtonhole 14 Osaka-to-Tokyo dir. 15 Neisse River's outlet 16 Mambo"s cousin 17 Light, one-seated carriage 19 Night-blooming cactus 20Coal tar derivatives 21 One may be terrible 
22 Approve, in a way 23 Oscar winner Wiest 24 Robe rooms 
26More 
mysterious 21 Host 28 Rips through 
pages? 30 Melted glace 31 Beastly blower 38 Opera "The Tale 
of --Saltan" 42 Antarctica's ---Coast 43 "Tskt" 
45 Cruise destination 46 Statue brought to life, in myth 47 Kind of plan 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

I'D MI!>$ THE ACTION. 
1'0 1-\155 Tl-IE Sl"\Ell$... 
THE SIGHTS ... THE PE.OPLE. ..• 
\ 
48Studying secondarily 49 Musicians· treasures 
so Almost any Three Stooges movie 
s1 Heed John the Baptist's advice 52 "The Girl With the Hatbox" star 53 "Taps" time 54 Electroplating terminals 55 Kettle sound 56 It starts in April inD.C. 
DOWN 
1 A Ford 2 One who does voice-overs 3 Style of the Ashcan School 4 Beneficiary's brother, 
perhaps 5 Keats, to Shelley 6 Cartoon 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Swoosie Kurtz, Jane Curtin, Billy Rose, Jo Anne Worley 
Happy Birthday: Opportunities are plentiful, but you must be willing to take some chances. Your practical side has always saved you in the past, but lately you may be losing out because of your reluctance to try something new. As long as you aren't excessive, you will find new chal­lenges that will lead you in a positive direction. It's finally time for you to become who you·ve always wanted to be. Your numbers: 5, 14, 16, 25, 34,43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You
BILL AMEND 

should not be concerned with co­workers who insist on spreading 
... SoRT PAtGE, ISl'ff nasty rumors. Keep your mind on your own projects and by the end of the day you'll be the one who's 
OF. lo\JR SCHOOL 
LIKE THREE 
shining 000
MILES 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): THATAWAY? 
Opfortunities for you to get ahead wil make themselves evident. You should socialize with clients or those in the upper echelons of your indus­try if at all possible. 0000 
GEMINI (May 2l•June 20): A resi­dential move may be in order. You should be careful wh,m dealing with female members of your family. Your temper will be short if someone criti­cizes your efforts. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Travel opportunities must be taken advan• tage of. You will have the opportunity to meet new romantic partners if you
SCOTT ADAMS 

gl'i involved in seminars or travel. 
00000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sports,
I ACCIOENTALL'< T\-\RE.IAJ 
physical fitness programs and exer­cise in general will make you feel bet­
OUT P... PAPER PLATE. LA5T 

ter about yourself. They will also 
show some pretty quick physical
WEEK. 
/!';;., KIODtNC,'i

WOULO i ~eOUT THE : I 
You LOOK 
results. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your partner may be somewhat irritable today. Try not to make waves. Offer good conversation and a nice sooth­ing lunch. You may want to make plans to take a vacation together. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may have a problem with a female friend. Don't let your emotions inter­fere with your efficiency, Be sure to take care of any minor physical ailments. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Op­portunities to expand your circle of friends will result in the possiblity of new romantic encounters. You will enjoy socializing and unusual forms of entertainment. 00000 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): There could be opposition or temper tantrums on the home front. Try to be as mellow as possible. Dan~er of minor accidents will increase w,th the turmoil. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Travel opportunities should be your first priority. Try to make arrange• ments with dose friends or relatives to spend a few days away. Relatives will be cordial. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Financial difficulties have been wor­rying you. Talk to someone with experience about a new budget or ways of consolidating your debts. You can come up with ways of earn­ing extra cash. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't blow situations out of proportion. Your need to use emotional blackmail will only cause more discord. If you put your energy into physical 01.ttlets, you will avoiaconfrontations. 000 
\ PEO?LE PART. \
------I I ,.. ___.,

F"OR IT? 
, I ,,I I 

I Ill OF INTEREST 
,, Student Chamber Music class-The graduates andundergraduates of the student chamber music class present a recital at 2 p.m. today in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The recital features works by Mozart, Beethoven, Purcell, Handel. Brahms, Smetana, and others. The r cpncert is free andopen to the public. Please call 631­6201 for mote information. Notre Dame Jazz Band-The Notre Dame Jazz Band will perform Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. in the Band Building. The concert is free and open to the public. Please call 631-7136 for more information. Collegium Musicum-Under the direction of Daniel Stowe, the Collegium Musicum presents a story tonight at 8 pm at the Church of Loretto, located on the Saint · Mary's College campus. The concert is free and open to the public. Please call 631-6201 for more informa­tion. 
•·· ND Gospel Choir... The ND Gospel Choir is holding its 
·annual Christmas concert this Sunday in Washington Hall. Prizes will be raffied off. 
Looking for the luck of 
It 
the Irish?

35 Travel agent's 39 Gorge suggestion 40 Fixed up 
character who 18 Cracked 36 Can't take 41 Chromatogra­debuted in 1944 25 Words before 37 1973 Pulitzer phy spray 7 They're found in "Love" on winner 44 Popular the ground screen and in FitzGerald liniment 
Join the 
aAssumed, with song 
38 "Amadeus" brand "to" 29 Lauders choreographer 48 Mare's-nest 9 Guillotined 
31 Nancy's 

,.
Observer
French poet successor
Andrede-­
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
32 Creative types 1oDough to go? 

are available by touch-tone phone: 11 About31/2 33 Heavy-handed 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). million square 
group 

Staff.
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
miles 34 Obscured, with best of Sunday crosswords from the last 12 Didn't go near "out" 50years. 1-888-7 ACROSS. 
(i) www.nd.edu/~r:1uh 


Friday, December 4, 1998
BSERVER 


,-----------------­
r 

¦ The Arizona Diamondbacks are dose to signing anoth­er free agent, Steve Finley.
PORTS 
p.21 
O 

THE 
Improving Irish prepare to take on Central Michigan 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Sports Writer 
Saturday's game against Central Michigan will be an important measuring stick in the development of the Notre namfl men's basket­ball program. 
After showing lethargic form at the Great Al.askan Shoot-out, the Irish played a spirited game against Indiana, forcing the Hoosiers to clinch the game in a tight overtime period. Now, thi> team needs to discover which performance will define its season. 
The Central Michigan Chippewas are coming off a five-win season. Second-year coach Jav Smith has over­h au I ed hh roster with I I underclassmen and nine entirely new players to the program. Smith's team will bring a 3-3 record into the Joyce Center on Saturday, boasting wins over Rochester College, Wright State and Robert Morris. The Chippewas' three losses 

.. 

Irish ready for 
Ohio St. 

By TED BASSANI 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the Notre Dame hockey team will play its last two gamP.s of 1998, wrapping up its season series against Ohio State with two games in Columbus. 
Following tho first NCAA Tournament appearance in school history last year, head coach John Markell's squad got off to a rough beginning this vear. Ohio State found itself in the NCAA semifinals last year after knocking off No. 1 Michigan State in an over­time thriller at Yost Arena. With expectations so high for this up-and-coming program, the team disappointed its faithful with a 1-6-2 start away from home. 
Recently, however, the Bu1.:keycs have once again shown why they were ranked in the proseason top 10, as they have won live of their last six games. With its recent surge, Ohio State has moved all the way up to a tie for fourth place in the CCIIA standings along with Michigan 
see HOCKEY/ page 21

-
¦ The Irish men's swimming team is in first place at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
p.22 

to Wisconsin-Milwaukee, South Florida and Fairfield are by a total of just 10 points. 
The big match-up of the game should be Notre Dame freshman Troy Murphy against Central Michigan freshman Mike Manciel. Manciel has caught fire late­ly. leading the team in points the last three games and averaging 13 points per contest this year. Murphy leads thP Irish in scoring and rebounding, trying to fill the shoes of Pat Garrity as the go-to man on the Notre Dame rosier. 
Central Michigan will show some pressure defense and push the ball up the court. Notre Dame point guards Jimmy Dillon and Martin Ingelsby will dictate just how effective the Chippewas' plans will be. 
"We want to pick up early on defense. play a multiple or defenses and trap a little more," said Smith. "On offense, we'd like to spread the floor, run some motion and try to isolate some of our players in one-on-oue situations. We'll also trv to run at every opportunity.~' 
Smith's design for the game is similar to John MacLcod's. 
But whim the Big East con­ference schedule kicks in, the Irish need to develop a consistent transition game to overcome their lack of height. The transfer of Hans Rasmussen this week puts even greater pressure on Phil Hickey and Harold Swanagan to control the offensive and defonsive rebounding, something they succeeded at against Indiana. 
For once, Notre Dame will have a height advantage against Central Michigan. Hickey and Murphy should be able to score inside against six-foot-eight Rudy Gayton, the tallest player on the Chippewas' roster. 
MacLeod and his team are just starting to form an iden­tity for themselves; Saturday is another step on that jour­ney. 

• CouHE fooDAu. 
An Irish legend moves on to Gamecocks 
23. 
Holtz left Notre Dame in 1996 after 11 years at the school. Ile won a national championship with the Irish and his overall record there was 100-30-2. 
Holtz said recently that his wife's health was a pri­mary concern before Im would take another job. Beth Holtz is undergoing treatment for throat cancer. 
In late November, he said: "J feel that God wants me to coach, otherwise he wouldn't have put the desire in me. I do enjoy coaching at the college level, but will not be active until my wife is well." 

Holtz was an assistant at South Carolina from 1966­67. 
Holtz and McGee are good friends and lloltz's name surfaced for the South Carolina job even before Scott was fired. 

McGee met with Holtz at least twice, including last Sunday and Monday in Columbia. While Holtz was in town, Gov.-elect Jim I-lodges, a South Carolina graduate, called to encour­age him to take over the Gamecocks, Hodges' spokes­woman Nina Brook said. 
"He called him and said. 'We really need you. Please come,"'she said. 


Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 
Former Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz is leaving his CBS football analyst position to take the head coaching job at struggling South Carolina. 
CBS Sportsline reported Thursdav that Holtz would join the ·Gamecocks, and a source close to the universi­ty who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed it. 
"I've heard the reports and those are accurate," the source said. 
South Carolina athletic director Mike McGee would not confirm a deal had been made, but official word was expected later Thursday, the source said. 
A man who answered the phone at Holtz's Orlando, Fla., home who would not give his name said be was not aware of any deal. Several later calls to Holtz's home got busy signals. 
Two spokeswomen for CBS Sports did not immedi­ately return phon_e calls. 
Previous reports have said South Carolina was pre­
pared  to  offer  Holtz  as  
much  as  $1  million  per  
year.  

South Carolina went 1-10 this year. its worst season in 106 years of football, and fired Coach Scutt on Nov. 
at Gator Bowl vs. Georgia vs. Central Michigan, Tech.Jan .I Tomorrow, 2 p.m. 
SPORTS 
at Ohio State 
Today, 7 p.m,
ATA 

vs. Connecticut, vs. Eastern Michigan Tuesday, 7 p.m. at NCAA Tournament
GLANCE 

Today, 5:30 p.m. 
l t __ _ 









