• Notre Dame graduate and scriptwriter 
• SWEATSHOP LABOR? 
Thursday

Don Roos has a new movie out. Scene gives you the inside track on what it's all abo.ut. 
Is Notre Dame exrloiting foreign workers in the pro­duction of appare bearing the ND logo? 
SEPTEMBER 

Scene • 10-11 
24, 1998


Viewpoint· 9 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 22 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Campus, world take a closer look at Clinton 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 



Profs look at role ofmedia, impeachment 
By SARAH MAGNESS News Writer 
llow much do Americans rwml to know about what goes on lwhind Whitn llousn walls? 
With tlw rnleasn of' thn eom­plntn and urwditml 3,11B-page Kenneth Starr rnport on the lntnrrwt and PrnsidE~nt Bill Clinton's four-hour testimony airing on rwtwork television, probing for details about Clinton's relationship with Moniea Lewinsky is not a diffi­cult task. 
What was once a sporadic story on the evening news is now the impending f'oeus on the mediums or media, said Linda Berdayes, assistant pro­fessor of communication at Saint Mary's. 
Dnspite tho aeenssibility of t h ~~ de v e I o pi n g story, the nwdia does have responsibili­lins conePrning thn issue. she strnssed. 
"While the nu~dia has the 
right to be covering the alTair, they h.~tve .used very poo.~ jm.lg­rnent. saul Berdayns. We ve had a real falling down of' what the roln of' journalists rwPds to be in this culture." 
"I don't qunstion !the media's! rights in it. but I question their roln and their rPsponsibility in doing it," Bnrdayes said. "There is a dwien involvnd. Pnople should Ill' able to SITE~nn information on tlw Internet and decide what tlwy want to read. But I don't think telnvision should 
• STUDENT SENATE 

be devoting sueh time lo the story." 
In-depth information on the typo of' interaction between Lewinsky and Clinton have turned into daily conversation pinees and jokes. The words "blue drnss" and "cigar" are now synonymous with the investigation. 
Clinton has asserted that thesn matters are part of his private life -the business of his family. 
At the same time, many Amerieans demand that the intimate details are thoirs to know. And the networks are devoting air time to the issue because it attracts so many viewers. 
CNN's web site documents its reasons for posting the Kenneth Starr rnport, stating 
that they are "presenting it in its entirety because of the gravity of the crisis involving the Presidency-and because, through its actions, the Congress is asking you, the public, to judge this material for yourselves." The network claims that they "feel it is their journalistic responsibility to bring this material to you." 
As much as experts claim that it is unnecessary to obtain such elaborate information on the relationship between Clinton and Lewinsky, sensa­tionalism sells. 
"I do sense that Uournalists) are the victims of the spin doc­tors on either side of the issue," she said. "This is an example of how people can 
see MEDIA I page 4 
• FOREIGN Focus 

Students watch 'Humpty 

Sept. 14, Tho London Times ran nine arti-London Correspondam cles. two opinion pieces and one editorial on the Clinton atTair. The same day there were four articles and one editorial on the whole of British politics. 
Kenneth Starr gets more press in the UK than William !Iague. 
Peoplo talk about it everywhere. On the "tube'' every morn­ing, soberly dressed British businessmen discuss impeach-
see CLINTON I page 4 


AFP Photo 
A photographer leans over a fence to get a better J-\shot of where Monica Lewinsky was rumored to be staying in February. Pictures taken by the American media have made their way overseas, and the White House scandal has been making news all across the globe . 


Group debates extending welcome letter to Bradley 
ByTIM LOGAN Assistanr News Editor 
WhilE~ they passed no resolu­tions and debattHl no major poliey changns, tlw student !Wnatn touelwd on a wide range of' isstws at last night's rmwting. 
Tlw senate dnbatnd a lt~tter wn!coming former U.S. senator Bill Bradley to campus. Additionally. .Judicial Council prnsidnnt .1.1'. Cooney informed tho body of' the ol'f'ien of' Besidencn Life's response to thn "Bally in the Alley" on August 2R, and also tendered his rnsignation, eiting unex­peetml servie1~ eornrnitnwnts. 
The letter to Bradley, whieh the senate debated briefly before returning to the Aeudemie Affairs committee for further review. was written in response to strong criticism in some quarters of' the former 
senator  for  his  pro-choice  
vinws on abortion.  
"It seems  to  mo  to be in our  

interest lo bend over backward to make sure that Bradley has a pleasant experience at Notre Dame," said Morrissey senator Hyan Constantini, co-chair of the Academic Affairs commit­toe and draftee of' tlw letter. "It's a nice thing for us to do as the voiee of the undergraduate student body." 
Thore was opposition from some senators who wanted to remove or change the refer­encn to Bradley's abortion stance in the letter, which states that his "views on some issues differ with those of a Catholic university." 
"This seems almost like a backhanded welcome," said Lewis senator Sophie Fortin. "If we welcome someone, it should bo a full welcome." 
St. Ed's senator Judson Penton voiced concern that, as the voice of the entire under­graduate student body, the senate might misrepresent some students who do indeed oppose Bradley's professor­ship. 
"We do represent every stu­dent here, and some students do object to his stance," said Penton. 
Ultimately, however, most senators agreed that Bradley's presence on campus is benefi­cial to the academic environ­ment and will contribute to a increased flow of ideas. 
"It's vital to the student body to get as many great speakers regardless of their views," said Fisher senator Phil Ditmar. "Those who bring different ideas ... are very important. Otherwise, we'II all sit around and have the same ideas." 
"The whole idea or a univer­sity is to have a confluence of opinions and ideas on various issues," said Constantini. 
The letter will likely come up for final approval next week. 
After the August 28 "Rally in the Alley," which has been called "the largest and most out of control gathering in 14 years,".University administra­tors worked to prevent similar instances in the future. 

"The office or Residence Life has handled it very well," said Cooney. "They've been really great with the whole issue ... 
~ ' ' 

trying to lind out what's going on." 
Administrators spoke with certain Turtle Creek residents who received eitations for noise violations that night, and met with students who wnrn eaught breaking du Lac. No specifies were available, aeeording to Cooney, bncause of' the privatn nature of the diseiplinary aetions. 
After announcing to the sen­ate that he would be resigning, effective immediately, Cooney nominated Kelly Folks, who is assistant to the Judieiul Council vice president for Advocacy and a chair of two Council committees, to replace him. Cooney cited service projects which "have grown exponen-· tially in recent weeks, and have 
see SENATE I page 4 
.' . 
• 11' '' 
'. '. 

.---------~---------------· ­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 




Holy Wars 
Let the jihad begin. 
In a world where everyone has a voice and an opinion, we constantly read in the newspaper and learn through the media about the latest con­troversy within 
Tom Enright
Catholicism. 
Copy Editor 
With liberals pitted against conservatives and feminists challenging traditionalists, one must often wonder what long term value such arguments hold. For example, during the past four weeks I've heard dis­agreements ranging from the role of women in the Church to the "proper way" to celebrate Mass: to kneel or not to kneel. 
Think about this: Are the "warring" fac­tions here in our Notre Dame community much different from those in our society as a whole? 
Listen up extremists. While we carry on such "intellectual discussions," The New York Times reports that millions of African children live orphaned due to AIDS. While we debate the proper way to view the Church hierarchy, millions of Americans live below the poverty level in a faceless mass too often forgotten about. 
When looked at in context of all the prob­lems in the world, does the way we stand, kneel or pray really matter if we devote our whole heart to God? 
I mean no disrespect to traditionalists or liberals. However, at a time when the aver­age Catholic is lucky to even attend Mass, is it really important what their view is on Mary or the infallibility of the Pope? 
Again, I'm not espousing heresies that Catholics rewrite the core values of the Church to meet their needs. Rather, haven't many of us on both sides become too wrapped up in the minute details of faith? 
I read in the newspaper and overhear criticisms on both sides of the religious spectrum. I've seen discussions ranging from the proper way to adore Mary to the "need" for a more gender-inclusive Bible text. 
Considering the physical and spiritual state of God's children throughout the world, we can and should do more than debate. 
I readily admit that I enjoy a good discus­sion about beliefs. Notre Dame certainly presents its students a spectrum of ideas and outlooks. Whether it be Fr. McBrien or Prof. Charles Rice, no one holds a monopoloy on truth -progressive, conser­vative or moderate. Who says that one can't be a staunch defender of John Paul II, but support the idea of women priests should it ever become an issue seriously discussed by the Vatican? 
Like one rainbow with many colors, Catholicism, I hold, does allow for some individuality in expressing the same faith. 
A school like Notre Dame may indeed provide the ideal forum for such religious debates and commentary (Read Fr. Lies' column on page 14 of today's paper to get an idea of worthwhile dialogue). Still, let's occasionally look around and make sure that our discussions don't get too petty. 
While debating the fine details of "proper faith,"-liberal or traditional-you may just miss God's call in the world at large. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Scene Colleen McCarthy Krisit Klitsch Tom Enright 
Graphics Maggy Tinucci 
Pete Cilella Sports 
Production Joey Cavaco 
Kathleen Lopez Matt Mulherin 
Lab Tech Viewpoint 
Meg Kroener Eddie Llull 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc: Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
'' ..
, .. 

Thursday, September 24, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
University of Florida students organize hurricane relief 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Trapped by felled trees and phone poles in the aftermath of Hurricane Georges, UF student Guillermo Rebollo's uncle cannot escape from his house in Cidra, a countryside town in central Puerto Rico. 
"My family is all right," said Rebollo, vice president of the Puerto Rican Student Union and a sopho­more. "But my uncle can't get out of his house because he lives more toward the countryside." 
Luckily, the Puerto Rican town of Corozal felt only stiff rain and wind, said Adnybel Rosario-Ortiz, a pre­med student who called her aunt in Corozal on Tuesday. 
Her aunt said trees went down, and Corozal must operate without electricity and water, Ortiz said. 
With those disaster stories in mind, members of UEPA, the Puerto Rican student union, will meet to 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Balcony suits allege negligence 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

As a Maryland woman filed the fourth and latest lawsuit in the university balcony collapse case last week, lawyer for the cases continue to claim that the university was negligent in its care of the balconies. The Pavilion I balcony collapsed on May 18, about 15 minutes before the start of the Class of 1997's Commencement exercises. Last Tuesday, Judith P. Zura filed suit against the Commonwealth, J. Murray Howard, the University curator and architect of the Academical Village and Anadac Corporation, an architectur­al firm that visually inspected the Pavilions in 1994 and said they were in good condition. Zura is suing for $1.85 million. All of the suits name the Commonwealth, Howard, and Anadac as defendants. Roger Creager, a lawyer in the firm of Marks & Harrison, which is representing four separate cases of people injured in the collapse, said he thought the latest case is "right on the mark," depending on the pre-trial rulings of the judge. 
• BROWN UNIVERSITY 

Explosion shakes labs, injures student 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

A small explosion yesterday morning in an engineering 
lab left one student injured and caused damage to some lab 
equipment, according to News Bureau Director Mark 
Nickel. The lab was later sealed ofT for investigative purpos­
es. The explosion on the fourth floor occurred shortly before 
10:00 a.m. and was reported immediately to Brown Police and Security by someone in the building. Brown Police then notified the Providence police and fire departments, who arrived at the scene shortly after. As is routine in situations involving chemicals or other laboratory materials, the haz­ardous materials team came to investigate. As a precaution, everybody was evacuated from the building while officials examined the scene. Nickel said that all students and facul­ty were allowed back inside the building at around 11 :00 a.m., approximately one hour after the accident. According to Nickel, Seung Han, a senior research engineer, was taken to the eye clinic at Rhode Island Hospital. 
• KENT STATE UNIVERSITY 
EPA rejects student center proposal 
KENT, Ohio 
The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency issued a pro­
posed denial Thursday of Kent State's application to fill a 
wetland area and relocate a stream for construction of the 
Student Recreation and Wellness Center. The university 
will have 30 days to appeal the EPA's decision and provide 
more detailed information about how they plan to replen­
ish local wetlands. "Our consultants are reviewing the EPA 
denial and will then plan to re-approach the issue to fig­
ure out what to do from there," said Lowell Croskey, 
senior vice president for Facilities Planning and 
Operations. "To resolve the issue it may take a simple dis­
cussion," Croskey said. Ohio laws require a 401 permit 
from the EPA to build on wetlands. Kent State impacted a 
wetland area at the construction site without a permit. 
Before filling in the wetlands on the construction site, Kent 
State was required to come up with a plan that would 
replenish other local wetlands 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS-AUSTIN 
Bill to penalize excess credits 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Some UT students may see their tuition bill skyrocket next fall because of new legislation which will force stu­dents to pay out-of-state tuition after exceeding a cer­tain number of credit hours. Set to take effect in fall 1999, the 170-hour rule will allow the state to cut fund­ing to the University for students who go beyond 170 attempted credit hours -including those students who transfer between universities and change majors. In order to compensate for lack of funding, the University will be authorized to charge non-resident tuition to stu­dents who accumulate too many hours. Based on this year's enrollment totals, UT officials expect about 200 students to be affected by the law. James Vick, vice president for student affairs, said the credit hour limit will take a negative toll on students who attempt to complete a degree while paying out-of-state tuition to finish their education. 

• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 24 

Thursday u Friday ~ '~75 60 
Saturday ~, !fl'7s 60 


Sund~y ~,. Monday -~ 
t (~.....u~-...... v~ '\.,..r·, 
r 

4,9,~9W~ i) ~ u 

UEPA Secretary Ramiro Montes de Oca said the union needs UF stu­dents and faculty to donate canned or dried food, to be mailed over the weekend. 
"As soon as we (collect an amount) that's worth the shipping, we'll send it," Montes de Oca said. 
Rebollo said UEPA is trying to gather a "complete list" of Hispanic students at UF, whom they will ask to donate diapers, powdered milk and blankets and food. 

The food and clothing drive idea arose at an emergency UEPA meet­ing Monday. 
Hurricane Georges carved through Puerto Rico on Monday night, smashing its first Puerto Rican town -Humacao, on the southeastern corner-at 7 p.m. 
Near Humacao is Las Piedras, a small town and home of UEPA mem­ber Janice Abrew's family. 
"According to my grandmother, they saw the eye," Abrew said. "There was a calm moment." 
Puerto Ricans awoke Tuesday morning to fierce winds clocked at 115 mph. 
"Basically," Rebollo said, "there's no trees whatsoever now. The coun­try is totally devastated." 
As of midnight Wednesday, 21 peo­ple had been killed by the hurricane. 

-

Thursday, September 24, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Accounting majors earn awards 

By MELISSA WHALEN 
News Wrirer 
Tuesday night Saint Mary's College hosted the Accounting Awards and Alumnae Hecognition Evening. 
Thn awards given to aecounling majors were contributed by businesses nnd accounting firms. Heproscntativcs from sever­al aeeounting firms includ­ing CrQwe Chizek and Ernst & Young were present to give the awards to the stu­dents. An array of alumnae and family members attend­ed the ceremony. 
Students were chosen for awards by the faculty of the accounting department at Saint Mary's College. While around 45 students were present for tho evening, those who received awards had no prior knowledge that they would bn rncipients. 
Heceiving the Bridget Anderson/Peat Marw,ick Award for Principles of Aceounting was Jon NaiL Bridget Anderson graduated from Saint Mary's in 1980, and was tho first graduate to become a partner in a publie aeeounting firm. 
Special Achiovemnnt Hecognition was given to .Jessica Pearch and Jayme Yodnr. I'~Hirch ree~lived the Thomas Nessingor Scholarship, while Yoder r!leeived an award from the Indiana CPA Society. The Indiana CPA Society gives out five awards per year to students at lndinna eolleges. 
• ClARIFICATION 
In yesterday's Obsnrver. a story ran about a lecture given by Father Viriglio Elizondo titlnd, "Quadalupe: Mother of the Nnw Creation." 
Qunstions have arisen rngard­ing tlw correct spelling of the 

There has been only one previous winner from Saint Mary's. 
The lirm of Crowe Chizek gave out two awards based on junior year performance. The award for Intermediahl Accounting was given to 
Laurie  Pater.  while  the  
award. for lncomH Tax  was  
given to Jon Pelic.  

The Ernst & Young Award is eonsidered the most pres­tigious by the accounting faculty, and· is given to the senior who is considered most likely to succeed in public accounting. This year's winner was Jen Pelic, who said that it was a big surprise to win both awards, but especially the second. Pelic has already accepted a job in tax accounting at Arthur Anderson in Chicago, where shtl interned during the summer. 
The final award given out was the Outstanding Alumnae Award, which was received this year by Lynne Wright. Wright, a member of the class of 1982, cur­rently works for Crowe Chizek. Since graduating, she has remnined active at Saint Mary's and has worked as a professor there from 1986-1992. 
Wright knew that she would be the recipient of the award since January of this year. It did come as a surprise to Wright that next year Crowe Chizek will pre· sent another award to a Saint Mary's student in her name. 
the vision of Our Lady. The more common spelling is "Guadalupe," but Internet sources checked by Observer staff members on Tuesday night confirmed "Quadalupe" as a less common but also correct spelling. 




West Bank accord eludes Albright 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A West Bank accord again eluded Secretary of State Madeleine Albright after another lengthy meeting Wednesday with Israeli P r i m e Minister Benjamin Notanyahu. 
But she 

Albright

deelared 
herself "an eternal optimist" and prepared for weekend sessions with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. Her spokesman, James P. Bubin, said another meeting with Netanyahu was likely. 
After Wednesday's meeting, Netanyahu complained about a recent comment by Arafat that unless he can negotiate statehood with Netanyahu, Arafat will declare it himself. "There is no place for unilat­eral declarations." the Israeli said, and added the United States understands his opposi­tion. 
Hubin backed him up. "Unilateral declarations that prejudge the outcome of the peace process are not help­ful," he said. 
Albright, in a mixed mes­sage about the status of nego­tiations, said "we have a lot of work to do" but also spoke of having made "some progress'"with Netanyahu on a further Israeli pullback on the West Bank. 
Israel is said to be close to agreement with Ararat's Palestinian Authority on with­drawal from an additional 13 percent of land, with 3 per-

Surge protector 
Control highblood pressure 

©1997, American Heat Association 


Win A Trip For 2 
to the 

·ND vs. Arizona State Game 
Includes: Airfare, Hotel, Car Rental, and Game Tickets Sign up at the 

Logan Center 
1235 N. Eddy St., at the corner of Angela, Juniper, and Eddy­South of Stadium 
September 26th 8:00AM-I :30PM 
Special Bonus: The first 100 people to sign up can receive their choice of: 
Notre Dame Hat valued at $19.95 for only $7. 95 (or) ND Sweatshirt valued at $49.95 for only $19. 95 
(Limit one item per family) 

cent of it designated a nature preserve under Israel's securi­ty control. But Arafat's stand on a Palestinian state has emerged a bigger obstacle to settlement. 
Last month, at a conference in South Africa, the Palestinian leader said he would declare a Palestinian state unless Israel agreed to the idea by next May. lie is expected to reassert that intention at the U.N. General Assembly session in New York. 
Netanyahu, at a news con­ference in Hebrew and English in a jammed hotel room, said interim Oslo agreements between Israel and the Palestinians specifically rule out such declarations, reserv­ing statehood to be settled between the two sides. 
With U.S. mediation, the Israeli leader said, the two sides had "traveled a great distance" toward a West Bank agreement. but he declared the Palestinians "must carry out their responsibilities." 
Netanyahu said if he would turn over more land if Arafat safeguarded Israel's security but said so far "Palestinian areas become one more Barnas base" after turnover. Hamas is the militant Islamic group that has waged a terror campaign against the Jewish state. 
In addressing the Palestinian state question, the State Department's Bubin said an Arafat deelaration to the United Nations that he intends to establish a state with or without Israel's approval "would be a unilateral action we would oppose." 
In a crowded hotel corridor after meeting with Netanyahu, Albright said: "I am an eternal optimist. We are taking it one step at a time." 
Albright would like to see the Middln Eastern leaders conclude a long-delayed aceord on West Bank with­drawal. Last week she said American mediator Dennis Hoss had made steady progress in shuttles between the two sides. 
But Israel's U.S. ambas­sador, Zalman Shoval. told a reporter before Wodnesday's meeting that several issues remain to be resolved, princi­pally in dealing with Israeli security. But he said an agree­ment is possible within weeks "with a little bit of luck and Palestinian cooperation." 
"It depends really on the Palestinians," Shoval said. Hubin, meanwhile, said the scope of Israel's next pull­back, seeurity arrangements, "safe passage" for Palestinians traveling between Gaza and the West Bank and establish­ment of a Palestinian industri­al zone and seaport remain unsettled. 
Another problem surfaeed, as well. Nabil Shaath, a senior Palestinian official, said "it's impossible to sign a withdraw­al agreement" with Israel if the Israelis continue building settlements on the West Bank. 
Shaath told Israeli Hadio in New York that no Palestinian government could sign a final aeeord with Israel if settle­ment activity is not halted. 
"Fretlzing the settlements is an important part of the American initiative," Shaath said. "I want to make it clear to the Israelis we cannot go to the final status talks when the settlements are going on like this." 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 24, 1998 
brief synopsis of the debate wrongdoing to warrant board claims honor should make culture into the European living about what the framers' inten­impeachment. An Italian paper Clinton resign. The Evening room: its obsession with sex, its


Clinton 
tions were regarding impeach­wrote, "We Europeans can only Standard agrees, in much the false modesty and prudery when 
continued from page 1 
ment. In a pub, an American accent is an invitation for people to strike up a conversation by saying, "What do you think of Clinton and Lewinsky?" British professors say to us, ''I'm curi­ous to know what you, as Americans, think of the Starr report." 
The BBC1 at 6 p.m. leads off with Clinton every night. The other night the BBC ran an explanation of the impeachment process -it was jolting to see a 
U.S. civics class on British TV. The London Times ran an article headlined, "What the Founding Fathers meant," followed by a 

Media 
continued from page 1 
manipulate the journalists. And so it is easy to get the information. Journalists are going for the easy story." 
Comparisons have also been drawn between "The Clinton Crisis" and Richard Nixon's Watergate scandal, which brought about talk of impeach­ment and eventually led to his resignation. 
Patrick Pierce, associate pro­fessor of political science at Saint Mary's, said that one of the main differences is that the investigation of Nixon was a federal matter. Clinton's probe, on the other hand, delves into his private life, he said. 
"The information was cer­tainly more regulated during Watergate," said Pierce. "Not only don't we need the detailed information in the Starr Report, but I think none of it is important for the public 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
made upholding my responsi­bilities as Judicial Council president nearly impossible." 
Pointing to Folks' experience in the Council, Cooney wrote that "she is the most logical choice to replace me and will fulfill the ... role more effec­tively than I possibly could at this time." 
In other senate news: 
Club Coordinator Hyan Harding updated the senate on activities of the Club Coordination Council. 
said Harding. He noted that the new Club Resource CentCI in LaFortune provides op.portu· nities for club interactior which did not exist previously. 
The CCC is responsible fo1 overseeing and allocatin! funds to more than 225 under ment. Hardly the usual stuff of British journalism. 
The tabloid writers are run­ning wild with it. The sandwich boards for last Wednesday's Evening Standard proclaimed "THE 4-LETTER PRESIDENT" in bold letters -referring, of course, to the just-released tapes of Clinton's testimony. There are numerous references to the "oral office" and "oval orifice." 
One airline company, Virgin Atlantic, put a picture of Clinton waving goodbye on its ads with the caption: "Departures from Washington?" 
The non-U.S. press is divided as to whether Clinton's actions constitute a serious enough 
to know. 
"With Watergate, people showed good judgment and deleted expletives which were not necessary," he said. "Now there is no sensitivity to that at all. It is all wide open. It dam­ages the image of the Presidency. We as a nation, have been harmed." 
However. the release of these explicit details has not damaged the president's popu­larity. 
According to a CNN-Time poll, Clinton's approval rating has increased to 66 percent, up from 60 percent since the Sept. 13 poll. 
The House Judiciary Committee, headed by Representative Henry Hyde, is still in the process of deter­mining which additional files will be released, some of which include testimony from Linda Tripp and Vernon Jordan. 
Whether or not the public is ready to find out more, an immediate solution to the problem does not seem near. 
graduate clubs in the University. 
The senate approved a letter to director of Food Service David Prentkowski asking him to revoke the policy banning backpacks in South Dining Hall. 
The letter follows up on a similar resolution passed by the Senate on Sept. 9. 
The letter suggests rerouting traffic through the dining hall to allow students to leave bags at their tables rather than carry them through the food area. This would cut down on space taken up by the bags in the crowded service stations. 

Campus Alliance for Rape 
Elimination would like your help at the Take Back the Night March. Please call Lori at 284-5187. Thank you. 

stand aghast at a nation which is so infantile it actually considers bringing down a President for doing what goes on all over the world." 
The French magazine Marianne referred to the Starr report as "the first porno assas­sination in history." Hong Kong's South China Morning Post sug­gested Clinton resign, saying his "fight for survival has reached its end." Allison Pearson, a pop­ular columnist with the Evening Standard, pointed out that the nation censuring its Presidenf for sex is the same one that "produces enough parnography to wallpaper the planet." 
The London Times editorial same language. 
It's through this lens that we in London watch the most dramatic political scandal since Watergate unfold. 
Whatever the outcome of the judiciary committee's hearings on impeachment, Clinton's Presidency is shattered and bro­ken. Europe knows it. Tony Blair, Britain's Prime Minister, has been carefully distancing himself from Clinton personally while retaining close diplomatic relations. The so-called "leader of the free world" isn't just a lame duck -he's a dead duck, and the free world knows it. 
The scandal has pushed some of the worst aspects of American confronted with this obsession, and its litigiousness. Whatever else Clinton has or has not done, he has cheapened his country in the eyes of the world. 
And so we wait with baited breath for the morning news to give us yesterday's events in the 
U.S. -12 hours later. We watch, 3,000 miles away, as the most powerful man in the world disgraces himself. And we won­der how this will affect the Presidency, the country, and the world, because, after all: 
All the King's horses and all the King's men Couldn't put llumpty together again. 




Videotapes help Clinton in polls 
Associated Press rate samples taken before and after the release of the WASHINGTON videotape, shows .a>different 

The release of President result; Clinton's videotaped testimo-Clinton's job approval nit­ny in the Monica Lewinsky ing wa.s at<SS perce.nt in case bolstered his standing polling over thEl weekend at a time the public's percep-after al.most eight months tion of him as the nation's above 60 pet · Buthis 
leader was declining, a poll :ratir:ig clfnibe ..releaSed Wednesday i:ndi-.. tes. ·... ·... $(). ~epub~ic(in ·l~adets of 
gp~~~ rnM' h~:~.ve lo~~ some •• Wt
t,J9d with tb.e publi.c after release of the videotapf), ~(lC!)r!ling t9 the poll by the 

decide 'THE AMERICAN 'PEOPLE HAVE A WISDOM 
people, 43 per­whether to pro-
ABOUT lliiS THAT CONGRFSS HAS NOT YET cent, than he ceed with gained it with.
impeachment. PICKED UP.' 
32 percent.

"I don't think 
Pollster 
people want this Andrew Kohut,
RoY ROHMER

Congress to deal director of the with a constitu­
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL· COMMmEE GENERAL CHAIRMAN 
tional issue based on the lat­est overnight poll." House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Wednesday.lie aJso said Congress should f~:Ot ''enact a: grotesque ver­sion of justice based on the latest poll or the latest talk show;" 
The president, under increasing pressure in recent weeks from both Republicans and fellow Democrats, was losing ground in several key areas in the polling done 
to. 62 
Pew Research Center for the ea.rly S~ptem}Jer 60 per·People & the Press~ · cent by the weekend. But 
GOP leaders say they are ·not taking cues from polls as lawmak­
that figure rebounde!i to 69 percent after the video's relea~e. . ••. . .< ...·· Almost halfof those ques­
tioned Q.Ver tb(l!Ve£Jkend thoughtthe presid¢nt did not have moral ,standing to lead the·nation. After the te~timo­ny aired,· that dropped to 41 
percent. · · Just two weeks ago, Republican leaders of 
Congress had been getting their best job approval rat­ings in the Pew poll in almost three years, with 44 percent approving and 37 percent disapproving. After the video's release, the public was equally divided on their job performance. 
"The Republicans are over­playing their hand," said Roy Romer, general chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "The American people have a wisdom about this that Congress has not yet picked up." 
Even it' the president bene~ 
.JUs from some backlash because of the video's release, he does not fare that well among Americans who saw his taped testimony. 
By a 50-38 margin, those 
who watched thought he did not make a good case for himself and he lost sym­pathy with more 
Pew Research 
Center. said the 
public's negative 
reaction to the videotape's release slowed Clinton's slide for now. 
"There was a negative reaction to the Starr report that is being masked," Kohut said, ''But when Republicans confront the public with this (material), they get a nega­tive reaction." 
The sample of 500 adults interviewed Saturday and Sunday had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 per­centage points. The sample of 706 adults interviewed Monday and Tuesday had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points. 

"The CCC is trying to fill a r-------------.:... over the weekend. Some had void that has existed and foster 
predicted the video's release
Are you willing to speak out 

would further damage hisrelationships between the 

about sexual assault or rape? 

standing with the public. more collaborative projects," 
clubs with the end goal being But the Pew poll, in sepa·

Do you have a story to share? 



------~-~---------------__.­
~­
-.. 
-
. .' 
·'· 
• 


Possible terrorists halted 
LONDON 
In an anli-tPJTorist opPral.ion bol'orP dawn WPdiJPSday, poli('(' illTPSI.!!d SPVI'n IIH'II in London but would not rnvnal what tlwy won~ suspPl'l.nd of doing. Tlw British 1wws agnncy l'rnss Association said it was undnrstood that t.llf' Ol)('ration was ainwd at associatns of Osama bin LadPn, tlw Saudi dissidnnt who has lwnn linknd to tho bombings of U.S. Pmbassins in K1~nya and Tanzania. Scotland Yard providPd fnw dntails. but did say tho aJ-rnsts Wl~rl' not thought to lw linkml with any unsolwd tPrrorist inr.id(mi. Tlw police h1•adquarll~rs said that at this stagn it could providP no information on whntlwr thosn dPtainPd WPJ'l' sus1wctnd of' plotting actions in Britain or-abroad. Thorn was no indication of' possibln targl't.S. 

Famous identity questioned 
WASIIINGTON 
IJPPp Throat, pnrhaps tlw most nlusive snitrh in Anwriran political history. is under lin• again. allngPd to b1~ a cumpositn, not a n•al jHH'son. Tlw arcusnr is David Obst. the forml'l' book agPnt who a quartPr-cenl.ury ago hPI1wd Washington Post reportPrs Bob Woodward and Carl Bnrnstnin sell "All the l'n·sidnnt's MPn," tlwir account or how the Watergate sr.andal was unraveled. They wrotn tlwn. and say now, that "Deep Throat" is a n~al. singln soun:e who guided them through tho mazn of l'rosidcnt Nixon's WatPrgate scandal. Thny have agreed to rnvPal his identity only after he clii~s. Obst, making his claims in his own book, contends that llnop Throat is pulp tktion, a composite rharactor basod on many sources. invented to bring nxcitenwnt to the Woodward and Bnrnsl!dn book and tho biQckbustnr movie it inspin~d. 


Laden aid is held for perjury 
NEWYOHK 
Tlw former pnrsonal seeretary of Muslim nxtrnmist Osama bin Laden on Wednesday was ordnrnd held without bail. Wadih El llagn, 38, has been charged with perjury for allt~gedly lying about his ties to bin Ladnn's tnrrorist organization. Bin Laden is tlw Saudi exile wanted by U.S. authorities for allegedly coordinating attacks on American nmbassies in Kenya and Tanzania on J\ug. 7 that killed 259 people, including 12 Americans. and woundnd thousands. El !!ago's attorney told U.S. Magistrate Judge l.nonard Bernikow that his client was not rhargt~d in thn bombing and would not 11ee the (:ountry. 

Market Watch: 9/23 Dow 
AMEX: 646.08}ONES t 12.63 .·ffp: 
1,(}1!9
Nasdaq:
8154.41 1760.27 
11
+257.21 
s·nMCt\l~n: 
I'H,\\'1.1.1-.H~ loiHJ\!1' 
nx en.., IN! 
('l)(_-,\-LlliAlU l'l)~ll'i\ll lX>MI'lt ll.H 
\IF.RRII.I. I.YN< II 
t.!IJHfCO l'ITill>IU' 
III.H ('()l~f'/Mr\~~ <.if.N H.I:CTRIC AMIR llNI.INf 
t62.47 NYSE: 
•
Down:
526.95 
976 
t 16.35 S&P 500: 1066.09 
Composite+36.29 
Volume: 694,700,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
Tln~ru ~~~ nl~t~Hir s~i&l~ ~Bin~ 
mv  tll.40  +.!.6K75  42.9375  
IIX  -2.41  -O..J.\75  17.6H75  
1--:0  +2.77  +l.~!J25  57.9:FS  
(I'll M~R  +L95 +7.57  +0.0250 +4.0(12~  J2.bK75 57.75  
<;  +6 87  +2.5625  39.K75  
CCI  +ll.·U  +IO.H.750  106.00  
EMC.' w:  +5.95 +.'U2  +3.04.\75 -t-4.2500  6l.1H75 84.0625  
Al1L  +H 17  +H.6H75  115.0625  

·.·0··:..··· ···::.
.......·.. .. 
' . . ... ' . 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• YUGOSLAVIA 

U.N. approaches military intervention 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 
VA(;ANlCA 
Sorb forces drove deeper into the heart of the ethnic Albanian rebellion Wndnnsday. and the U.N. Soeurity Council edged clos­er to military intnrvention by demanding a cease-lirn. 
Serb artillery boomed in the west and east of the Drenica region of central Kosovo, threatening up to 20,000 eivilians who had fled their homos and were believed to be trapped by the fighting. 
Thousands of Serb police, Yugoslav soldiers and armed Serb civilians, many of them teen-agers. patrolled nearly all routes into the Drenica region Wednesday, lighten­ing a noose around several hundred lightly armed robels who built a network of trenches and sandbag bunkers in the mountainous area. 
While the lighting played out, the U.N. Seeurity Council approvep a resolu­tion at U.N. headquarters in New York demanding a cease-fire in Kosovo and threatening further aetion if lighting continues. 
Tho resolution, an attempt to increase pressure on Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, is militarily enforceable, but doesn't explicitly authorize NATO intervention to stop the Serp offensive on ethnic Albanian separatists. It also requires the council revisit the issue before any U.N. authoriza­tion of force is granted. 
Deputy U.S. Ambassador Peter Burleigh described the resolution as a clear mes­sage to Belgrade "that the council is demanding that they change their behavior and live up to their responsi­bilities." 
China abstained from vot­ing on the resolution. which passed 14-0, saying the sit­uation is not a threat to intnrnational security.. · · 
In Portugal. where NATO defense ministers are to meet Thursday, an alliance o!licial who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity said the get-tough resolution opened the way for ·a "signifieant upping of the ante." 
NATO sources said anum­ber of nations, including Germany and the Netherlands. already have made commitmants of men and aircraft to any future military action against Yugoslavia. 
Before the vote in New York, Serbia's President Milan Milutinovic declared at a meeting with Yugoslav army eommanders that Yugoslavia would defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity, the oflicial Tanjug news agency reported. 
He addnd that the world should pressure Albania because it provides bases for the "terrorists," rather than threaltln Yugoslavia. 
Serb forces appeared intent on crushing the Kosovo Liberation Army in advance of any internation­ally demanded peace moves. The Albanian-run Kosovo Information Center elaimed that 11 ethnic Albanian civilians were killed Tuesday. Serb sources said three police were killed and five wounded in Tuesday's fighting. 
Police prevented reporters from traveling freely through the Dreniea area Wednesday. Along the fringes of the area, evidence of conflict was apparent. 






Mand.ela hQuored by Congress 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 

To cheers and stand.i.p.g ovat}ons from America's leaders, retiring South African President Nelson Mandela received the Congressi()nal Gold· Medal on Wednesday, becOm· ing the first African awarded the honor. · 
"No medal. no award. no fortune. nothing we could give him could possibly compare to the gifts he has given to us and to the world," President CUnton said befo1·e pre· senting the round gold· medal nes­tled in a green velvetease. 
"The only gift th<~tis true recom· pense is to continue his mission and to live by the power of his profound and wonderful example." Clinton added. 
Surrounded by .the ¢ap~tol 
· ·;.:i+f~:~t~#li·itdi/:~If~Jli:fii~t:/:; ,·;)":::;·,_.,:~ ;.,::':·
·= =:_· .. , · · 

An Albanian supporter shouts anti-government slogans against the Serbs during a demonstration yesterday. 
The small village of said refugees from Dreniea 
Vaganica was deserted were trying to escape to the 
Wednesday except for dogs town of Kosovska Mitroviea, 
and abandoned farm ani-northwest of Pristina. 
mals roaming the streets. Another Western aid 
Heporters could hear the worker, speaking on condi­
thud of distant artillery, but tion of anonymity, said peo­
unlike the day before. no ple in Kosovska Mitrovica 
small arms tire, indicating already were paeked 100 to 
Serbs were softening up a house, and new arrivals 
resistance. would have to eamp in 
A UNICEF worker who muddy open fields nearby. 
refused to give his name 
Rotunda's towering images of George Washington and Abraham Liticoln..a. beaming Mandela said he felt ''like the. heavyweight boxing champion oftheworld:''. 
"There's one regret I've had throughout my life, that I never beca111e the heavyweight boxing champion of the world. r would like my friend, Evander Holyfield, to know that today, I feel lik(l tho heavyweight boxing champion of the world," said Mandela. 
Mandela, the lOOth recipient of 
.the congressional medal, said prizes alone cannot sustain South Africa. 
'''Though we are long past the blaming of our past for our prob·' !ems; lt does need to be <~cknowl· 
.edged that the imbalance and inequities bequeathed to us by the histpry (Jfi\f'tica Md .South Africa are beyondJ>~l'~f;lpacity to meett:~n 
• •.•'.:;:::::.:;:~: .:,,?;:;,:;=::!;;;~;nJ1MI~~~M§j\f.:~i:!,;r:~:i:~:;~):::: ';: ~·,· ).~.9:.;}:::, ,..\ ..::::.~· ':_,:..,·· . . .... 


our own," Mandela said. 

"They call for a partnership of Africa and the United States, devel· oping and developed countries bringing about a transfer of 
resources.·~ 

The ceremony was the last ol11dal event Mandela will attend in the United States as head of state. He is stepping down next year. 
House Speaker Nnwt Gingrich saluted Mandela as' ''the father of multiracial democracy in Africa and the leading example in the wol'ld today of the spit·it of Washington" and Martin Luther King Jr. 
With tears in his ~:~yes. Gingrieh. H-Ga., boseeehod Americans to fol­low Mandela's example of humility. sacrifice and kindm:ss in the face of"emnity. 
Congress approved legislation on July 29 to award the medltl to Mandela. 

~~-~-----._.._._.,_ --~----------......, 
Thursday, September 24, 1998
The Observer • NEWS 
ND law grad writes pre-med book 
The U rlban Plmnge Seminar 
The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. As a participant. you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past 
have included:  
Albany  New Orleans  
Atlanta  Memphis  
Brooklyn  Nashville  
Harlem  Seattle  
Baltimore  Phoenix  
Washington  Honolulu  
Los Angeles  and many more sites  

As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. There will be an information session on September 28th at 8:30 at the CSC 
I Not I but the city teaches. -Socrates 
J 

FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CONTACT the Center for Social Concerns@ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndcntrsc 
Application Deadline --Friday, November 6 
-----~~--._--­
page 6 

By MAGGY TINUCCI 
News Writer 
A significant moral respon­sibility to the community inspired a 1984 Notre Dame Law School graduate to write a book about -applying to medical school? 
Gregory Andrews says the few years he practiced law led him to consider a career in the medical field. 
"The roost fascinating aspects of law dealt with med­ical issues," he said about his decision to become a doctor as well. 
After a few years of law, Andrews went on to receive his medical degree froq1 the State University of New York at Buffalo, and is now a gen­eral practitioner who can add authoring a book to his list of accomplishments. 
"I had the unique opportuni­ty to go to both law and med­ical school and felt a certain responsibility to give some­thing back," said Andrews. This contribution resulted in his book "The Complete Guide To Premedical" Success," a detailed guide for the student considering a career in medi­cine. 
Andrews describes the book 
as being a tool he wishes he 
had when applying to medical 
school. 
"This is a comprehensive 
guide for students," he said. 
The book includes chapters on 
the art of interviewing as well 
as the particular qualities one 
Earn one credit 
while learning in a city...continue the tradition 
ACHlEVlNCJ Tli 
.OCTOR DREAM 

THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO 


PREMEDICAL SUCCESS 

GREGORY A. ANDREWS M.D. J.D. F.C.L.M. 
l'l·IY"IC!•\N ,\ND •\TTOR~;r;y FELL()'JU Of. fl·IE AHERJC:\N CnL!.EGE f>P LEGc\1. MEDICINE 
must consider after being which offers advice more than accepted to a medical school. anything else. It also offers 
"[t offers detailed informa­simply interview questions to tion that many physicians help prospective students in wish they would have had their applications. when going through the appli­"The Complete Guide To cation process," said Premedical Success" is now Andrews, who noted the available in the Hammes unique nature of the book, Bookstore. 
Associated. Press 
UNITED NATlONS 
Pakistan's prime minister said Wednesday his coun­try would unilat(;lrally adhere to the nuclear test ban treaty, but warned that compliance would depend on wheth¢r tiVal India resumed its tests. 
Nawaz Sharif said Pakistan was ready to adhere to the pact if eco­nomic sanctions imposed after it conducted nuclear tests in May were lifted. 
''Pakistan is ... pre­pared to adhere to the Com ­prehen­
sive Test
B a n Treaty," Sharif told w o r 1 d leaders at the United Nations General Assembly session. 
"In this regard. we 
expect that the arbitrary restrictions imposed on Pakistan by mliltHateral institutions will b(l ~p(l(ldi~;y removed,"-Sharif ~!iid; 
After India apd Ptii carried ol.lt ntich~ar the United States and nations imposed economiC sanctions. cutting off all loans. That measure has been especially tough on 
, Pakistan, which has been struggling with severe.• eco­nomic woes. 
Sharif Pakistan w with a ban on only so long a not carry out tests. 
"If India were nuclear testing, _•·.. · 
will review its···"'·._,.,.-,,.,,,.. Sharif said. .. ... . Pakistan and Indta.have been locked in sr .er1ng territorial_ di$ ye_r Kashmir, whic me ominous after tho 



'T~~;A~:::~r ~~{r:h~
' 
COMMENDED FOR HEEDING THE CONCERN OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNI· 
which is .· . by. the United Nations, routinely break out b(lt~~(ln the hos~ 

The h1st was in lat August,·· 
killed more .·. ···..·. .QO Civil~ ians on both sid~s of the border. 
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said he wel­comed Pakistan's decision. 
"I welcome warmly the 
statement made by the · prime minister of 
t r y s intention of signing -· t h e CTBT." 
SWINGER AND USTENER PARTY 
Ifswing is your thing, this is your night. 
Iflistening is your thing, this is your 
DJ LEON spinning the best in big band swing music: Count Basie, Duke Ellington, Louie Prima, and many other great swing dance bands. 
For the listener and semi swingers, the best in jazz and blues, Miles Davis, Charlie Parker, Dizzy, Bruebeck, and many other great jazz artists, plus Blues Lovers Specials by B.B. King, Muddy Waters, Billie Holiday, Sinatra and many other greats. 
ALL HAPPENING AT THE IRISH CONNECTION EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT FOR THOSE WHO WANT A CHANGE FROM THE REGULAR BAR SCENE. 
DOORS OPEN 8 PM 

·­

Thursday, September 24, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
student union 

HAPPENINti§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Movie: X Files 09/24. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 09/25. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. OBOOPM &1 030PM. 09/26. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. OBOOPM &1 030PM. 
Acousticafe. 09/24. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
HPC (HALL PRESIDENT§' COUNCIL} 
Sorin: Annual Talent Show · 09/25. Friday. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL} 

Trident Naval Society: 09/25. Friday. 24-hour run for Special Olympics 9/25 noon to 9/26 noon 
Pre-Professional Society: 09/28 Monday Lecture Day: "Back to the Future" CCE-8am-5pm 
Mu Alpha Theta: 09/28 Monday Mtg & speaker (Julie VanMeir) 6:30pm-CCMB Math Lounge 
DEPARTMENT EJF MUSIC 

Listening: 09/29 Tuesday Gene Bertoncini & Thomas Knific HLA-8pm FREE!!! 
CLASS OF i!OOO 

Concession Stand. 09/26. Saturday. Alumni Hall. Before the Purdue game. 
CLASS OF i!OOi! 

Freshman Hall Council. 09/30. Wednesday. Freshman Hall Council interested in Executive Board: Mtg 7pm 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Saferide. 631-9888. 09/24. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0200AM. 09/25. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0300AM. 09/26. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0300AM. 

CAMPUS WIDE 

Pep Rally. 09/25. Friday. JACC. 0700PM. 

-· 
-


Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. 
[Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail !O SUB, 201 LaFortune] 
eeoeeoooeoeeoeeoooeoeeoeeoooeoeeoeeoooeoeeoeeoo00oeeoeeoo00o 
I· 
.'.
'' 
'' 

1 I' I I' 
'' '. 





VIEWPOINT 

page8------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks 
t--!0.•. \ WA'7 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
~\TTlNG~~

Brian Reimhalcr Kyle Carlin 
\f.Jl.-\Ot£
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hcarher MacKenzie 


~... 

NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ...............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and 
Sainr Mary's College. 1r does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurarc:ly and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdiwrials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, Assistant Managing Ediror and dcparrmcnr editors. Commemaries, lerrers and 
columns present the views of rhe authors, and nO( necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available mall members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
through leuers is encouraged. 

Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/AssiStant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Sysrc:ms 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Samt Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail obsc:rver.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• GUEST COLUMN 

hi her last article, "US Needs to Rethink Policy in Dealing with Terrorism" (The Observer, Sept. 10), Nakasha Ahmad argues that American 

Basil Davis 

fears of "Muslim" terrorism are quite unwarranted. As far as this argument goes, she has my fullest sympathy and support. But Ms. Ahmad is clearly wor­ried about what she senses as an anti­Islamic reaction to the bombings of the embassies in Africa. 
I am writing this article with the hope of allaying her fears and assuring her that she has no reason to be ner­vous. I believe Ms. Ahmad would be less pessimistic if she followed current affairs more closely. For instance, she writes: 
"Symptomatic of this 'terrorism' was the fact that Pakistan made the first 'Muslim' atomic bomb several months back. Funny how the American bomb was never the 'Christian' bomb and the Soviet bomb was never the 'atheist' bomb." 
ActualJy, it is not funny. The expres­sion "Islamic bomb" was not invented by any Western Muslim-haters. The phrase was used as far back as the early 1970s by Pakistani leader Zuifikar Ali Bhutto in reference to his country's nuclear ambitions. When Pakistan set off nuclear explosions in the Baluchistan desert earlier this summer, the phrase was shouted out proudly and publicly in that country. A mock-up of an atomic bomb with "Islamic Bomb" painted on the side was paraded through the streets of 

Exaggerated Fears 
Karachi to the jubilant shouts of a "holy war" against India. 
Clearly, it was the Muslims who used the phrase "Islamic bomb" for their weapon. But was this talk of the Islamic bomb intended as a threat to the Western powers? Hardly. Hear what Pakistani Information Minister Mushahid Hussain said to the German news magazine Der Spiegel: "Why do people talk about an Islamic bomb? This is a Pakistani bomb. In the case of India, you don't talk of a vegetarian bomb." Did Hussain think the GerriJ.ans were nai've? I suspect not. Hussain was anxious that the Pakistani bomb should not be construed as a provoca­tion to the West. The unification of Western Europe and the cessation of the Cold War meant that a small and weak nation such as Pakistan could not afford to arouse the ire of the U.S. and its allies. So against whom is the Pakistani rhetoric of the Islamic bomb directed? Against India, with its "vege­tarian bomb!" This large and predomi­nantly Hindu neighbor has been feared and hated by Pakistan since the cre­ation of the two nations in 1947. India had exploded its first nuclear device in 197 4. Its subsequent tests earlier this summer could not go without a response from Pakistan. 
Ms. Ahmad believes the U.S. exer­cised a double standard in its attacks on Sudan and Afghanistan. So in her opening paragraphs she claims that had the attacks on the U. S. embassies been carried out by a British or a French "madman" the U.S. would not have bombed Britain or France. But Ms. Ahmad failed to mention that Britain, France and the U.S. are mem­bers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). According to article 5 of this Treaty "the Parties agree that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all." I suspect that a British or a French terrorist who blows up an American embassy would be treated much like an American ter­rorist who blows up a federal building in an American city. Of course, if any of these European nations contravened the Treaty and shielded such a terror­ist from the U.S. then it would be a dif­ferent matter altogether. We are all familiar with the treatment Germany received from the U.S. during the Second World War. 
Ms. Ahmad's criticism of the 

J
UST AS NO SANE CHRISTIAN THINKS THE MILITANTS OF NORTHERN IRELAND ARE REPRFSENTA­TIVFS OF CHRISTIANIIT, SO TOO IT IS FOOLISH TO IDEN­TIFY THE ISLAMIC FAITH WITH THE WORDS AND DEEDS OF A SMALL MINORIIT OF TROUBLEMAKERS. 
American bombings of Sudan and Afghanistan is appropriate and laud­able. But she does not speak for the Muslims of the world when she pleads for clemency for Osama bin Laden: Assassinating him or capturing him, without hard proof, will only give other nations more of a reason to resent and dislike the U.S. It would certainly be criminal to kill Mr. bin Laden without proof, but capturing him is a different matter altogether. After all, he himself in a 1997 interview with CNN said his jihad against the United States would conclude only when Washington with­drew from Saudi Arabia and ended its "aggressive intervention against Muslims in the whole world." bin Laden has openly named Saudi Arabia and Egypt as his enemies as well. It is clear that the Islamic governments of Saudi Arabia and Egypt would be happy to see bin Laden -now in exile from his homeland of Saudi Arabia­arrested and brought to trial. Furthermore, bin Laden was an ally of the United States in the 1980's, when he was a supporter of the CIA-backed Afghan rebels battling the Soviet occu­pying forces. So here we have no mys­terious desert paladin from the Arabian Nights, but a former buddy turned enemy. 
Finally, I would remind Ms. Ahmad that the Muslims of Pakistan -the authors of the "Islamic bomb"-have actually helped the U.S. in its search for the terrorist(s) who blew up the embassies. Not long after the blasts, the Pakistan government arrested two suspects and handed them over to the United States. Clearly, these Pakistani Muslims did not think it wrong to arrest someone merely suspected of having a hand in the bombings. Nor did they think these Muslim suspects would be ill-treated by the feared and hated United States. 

It is clear that the U.S. has many Muslim friends overseas. It is true that there are Muslim terrorists. But there are also Christian terrorists in Northern Ireland. Just as no sane Christian thinks the militants of Northern Ireland are representatives of Christianity, so too it is foolish to identify the Islamic faith with the words and deeds of a small minority of troublemakers. Conversely, the preju­dices of a few people towards Islam should not be interpreted as a general attitude. It is irrational to fear every­one who belongs to a different faith and it is equally irrational to believe that everybody else is afraid of us. 
Basil Davis is a graduate student in the theology department. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
• DOONESBURY 

(}{JR ONl-Y HOPF; OFAcrtJAti,.Y PfJUIN3 7HifTOFFMAYU& INAPP!iARJN6 709e5lJC­
C&55FUL-. A t/JXU?YCAR MleHT HelP... I 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
RJPPA'! I 
COUWS!AKT 
tveARJNG 
fi?A/.PHL.JJl.FO/. 
I 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'prisons give those out­
side a resting period 
from town bullies and hor­
rible characters, and for 
this we should be very 
grateful.' 
-Roy Kerridge 

9-4 '
'I 
• t • I I 



VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, Scptcrnhcr 24, I998 os~£RvER ---------------------------------------------page9 
• LETIER TO THE EDITOR 

Logical Analysis Favors Pro-Life Argument 
I begin to lire of reading arli­r.ln al'tor artide on abortion in Thn Obsnrver filled with either knN1-jork reactions or unbridled ~~motions. As a result of' this bar­rage of debate, I havo doeided to try to eoncisely summarize both argumnnts for and against abor­tion in thn modern world, and try to put abortion in the c:ontext that it was originally meant to be usnd !'or. I shall tlwn suggost whic:h argument seems the more rrasonable onn. 
From llw pro-dwien point of viow. abortion is a fundamental ri~<:ht of the woman as ruler of lu.~r body. She has the natural right to rngulatn her body and as far as possible her bodily func­tions. Since the developing fetus taxos tho fnmaln body, tho woman should have thn right to havp it removed if she so desires. Fr·orn this pursptH:tivH, the fetus is no more than a few ounees of' cells in a sack of' salt water, and «:an btl disposed of at will. It is a parasitfl on tho woman's body, and though it has potential to be a baby someday, it does not fit our a~t~npted dnfinitinns of ono as it is. Since this picee of' Oesh is unpleasant and may incur eonsequences lator that are not what the woman had planned, it is justifiable for the woman to gnt rid of it and proeeed on tho path that sho had wanted boforo. Her t:onvenience and personal sovereignty arB protected, and slw snoms to have mado a ptW· feetly reasonable and permissi­ble ehoice in the context of a very cnmpotitive modorn soeioty in whieh she does not wish to deal with both the demands of lil'e and tiHI Pxtra demands ineurrnd by either «:arrying or having a baby. 
(o'rorn the pro-life persper.tive, lhf' dnveloping nnsh insido tho woman·s uterus is far more than a lump of et11ls. From a biolo­gist's point of vinw, as soon as concoption takes place, there is a nPw cnmtur<' insidn of the woman, distinet in its gt~netie makoup and dwmistry from its mot.lwr. It dons not have the sam(l DNA. thP same gen«~tie eodn as its motlwr, so eould not possibly be simply a part of her. The ramifications of this seem to f'aulltho pro-choke argument that as the fetus is only a part of its mother, it can be disposed of like a tumor with no moral con­sequenees. If the fetus W!'ro like a tumor, it would not have its own genetic code, would not havo anything to distinguish it biologically from the substance of its mother's person. As the fetus does indt~t)d have its own distinetive identity, it smJms no longer valid to treat it simply as a member of om~·s own body, but must be acknowledged as anoth­flr organism. Thus far, however. tlw parasite argument still holds. Tlw ft>tus does indm~d take nutri­tional components from its moth­er's body, and therefore can be t~liminat(\d like a hostilo ba<~teri­um, whieh. though having its own genetic code, is regularly dt~stroytHi by the body's immune system overy day. Tho difficulty is that a fetus is not like a nor­mal parasite. Normal parasites do not have placPs in the body spceifkally designed to create and carry them. Normal para· sites hang on until their host is 

dead, and then move on to anotlwr host. A fetus develops in a space within a woman's body that is particularly suited for its analion and sustenance. lt also comes into being in a very dis­tinetive way, as an act of will. The will may not always be, unfortunately, the fetus's cre­ation, but still the aet which brings about its creation is one of will on tho part or its mother and father. The fact that this act was willfully engaged in by sorneom' generates a rosponsi­bility for consequences of that aetion, just as every decision has consequences, just as every cause ereatBs an effec:t. This responsibility is a moral one to continue the life which one has just eroatHd, for that )if(J is not one's own-it is a distinct crea­ture. Unless we still believe that human beings own each other, tho developing fetus is not owned by its mother. 
There is the obvious exception of rape which coneeives a child, which must also be considered in the argument. In this ease, it is very unfortunate indeed that the act occurred, but its unfortunate nature does not change the fact that it did Indeed oecur. The evils suffered by the woman in pregnancy are evils which are not. morally speaking, inflicted by the fetus, but by the raper. Jn this case too, the woman is morally obligated to carry this tHlW croature until it can survive outside of' her, to c:arry it to term. That is not to say that she must raise the ~~hild produced, but she must allow the other creature life, or by taking it she murders. There are many young couples who dearly wish that they could conceive who are unable, who would be more than happy to raise the child as there own -they do not earn if the child was created by rape, they simply want to nurturH life. This option is also open to those who simply do not desire the child that they have produced. 
So far it seems to me that pro­life is winning. The next infor­mation shocked m(~ when I loarned it last year in Government class. When abor­tion was first made legal, it was originally intended not for the middle elass, but for the predom­inantly black (at that time) lower dass. The idea was that the gov­ernment would support far fewer illegitimate children and eventu· ally the lower class would kill itsell' off. This is why abortion was made available on-demand very cheaply. The plan did not work primarily because of the religious and moral convictions of the dass that it was intended for -convictions which the mid­dle and upper classes did and do not seem to share as strongly, as they are the primary clients for the surgery. 
Abortion in this light simply does not seem to be justified. If anyone finds any problems with the above arguments, and is willing to impart them with mea• sured reason rather than erno· tiona! outburst, I shall gladly read them. 
Nathaniel Hannan Freshman, joint major theology/philosophy and chemistry Seprcmber 2~. 1998 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 


ND, The Corporation: Capitalizing on Sweatshop Labor 
The University of Notre Dame prides itself on its commitment to social justice, involve­mnnt in community service, and the rnsponsibility and morality we dedicate oursnlvns to as membnrs of this Catholic institution. According to the Notre Dame mission statemnnt, Notre Dame "seeks to eultivatn in its students not only an appreci­ation for the groat achievements of human beings, but also a disciplined sensibility to tht) poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many." The University forgot to inelude, "provided that this sensibility ncithnr hindnrs nor mini­mizes our ability to eapitalize on the Notre Dame logo." Fnllow students, we are no longer part of a 

University, but a profit-1:/~---------:--:;~~~~w.:l who answered my 
sneking, monny-hungry, 
worknr-nxploiting cor­
poration. 
In 1996, shortly after the Kathy Lee Gifford cxpost\ on sweatshop abuses, Notre Dame, being the roar-end cov­ering entHrprise it is, adopted a rather empty and loosely phrased sweat-shop free licens­
ing policy. This policy 
was not a product of 
student pr.tition or 
aetion. Instead, elever 
r,ntrcprennurial admin­
istrators wanted to pro­
teet the future rcputa­
lion of this corporation, 
in the unfortunate cir­
cumstances that some 
Nader-like eonsumer 
might reveal the truth 
about the conditions 
under which products 
with Notre Dame 
insignia are manufac­
tured. 
On April 12, 1998, (well after the corpora­tion's adoption of a sweat-free licensing policy) The New York Times released an arti­cle entitled "In America; Sweat-shop U" which verified the subhuman conditions in a seven-factory eomplex in the Dominican Republic whr.re base­ball caps bearing the names and logos of several Amr,rican universities were manu­factured. Among those universitir.s was Notre Dame. After reading another report conducted by UNITE (the Union of Needle trades, Industrial, and Textile Employees) on this particular manufacturer on the internet, again one finds Notre Dame as one of the manuf'aetured logos. In fact, the full report from UNITE features pictures from inside tho factories, and, in fact, Notre Dame gear is pictured. 
In order to ensure that these reports were true, I spoke with several UNITE of'fi­cials, who have been working closely with these Dominican workers. They stated that workers confirmed manufacturing the ND logo and that during a worker-tour in the U.S., workers bought hats which they had purchased at a company store which sold imperfect products, including one with the ND emblem. These ND caps, which are sold throughout the country for around $19.95 each, are being manufactured by 2,050 workers, primarily teenage girls. According to the report, each university typically earns $1.50 per cap from licensing fees. However, a mere 8 cents is paid to the worker who made the cap. Workers report that women are being paid significantly less than men. Working conditions and compa­ny practices are unsafe. In fact, workers who have been injured on the job have been fired. Workers are forced to work overtime, a violation of Domincan law, and are required to work 56 hours per wr.ek while bning paid $40 per week. Physical assault against workers and violations against women by managers were also reported. Workers are also being denied the right to organize a union as the eompa­ny is eonducting mass firings for those who are thought to support the union. 

Deeply perturbed, I feel that as a stock­holder who invests over $26,000 in this corporation annually, I was entitled to an explanation. I spoke to an official at the 
licensing dr.partment 


questions rather hos­
tilely and tersely. She 
denied that the ND 
was licensed to sueh 
a contractor. 
However, she cited no 
investigations or 
report to back her 
claim. The ND liccns­
ing policy names 
standard conditions 
to which the employer 
must eomply, but ND 
Corp. docs a horron­
dous job enforcing 
th t d d A I
ese s an ar s. "s 
ended my call with 
the overly defensive 
licensing department, 
I was told I should be 
proud that ND was 
leading the way, its 
Code of Conduct was 
putting morality on 
the forefront among 
College-licnnsing poli­
cies. Try leading the 
way, in hypocrisy. 
corporate greed and 
human exploitation. 
The ND Code of 
Conduct fails to dnar­
ly require that work­
ers are paid living 
wagns, protectnd 
from violations 
against womnn and 
given the right to 
organizn unions, a 
right strongly sup­
ported by tlw Catholie 
Church. 

It also fails to require full disdosurn of where and to whom all work on the gar­ment was contraeted and sub-contraeted, including benefits, wages, etc. In order to prevent this disgusting situation of workt~r exploitation, Notre Dame needs to publidzn the factory names, addresses, and eondi­tions, as well as spedfy that independent monitoring be conducted by non-govern­mental organizations. 
As members of this university, we must take responsibility for our logo. We havr, the right to demand that the name of this institution not be used in a way that exploits workers. We, as students, alumni. faculty and consumers of' ND insignia, havr, the right to know where products with our University's name are being made and under what conditions. If not for the sake of what is socially and economically just, then perhaps this corporation could amend this situation for the sake of improved public relations. Let's put aside corporate grr.ed and implore our administration to uphold the moral and Catholic obligations it urges us to adopt. 
Julie Hodek Sophomore, Farley 1-lall Seprember 22, 1998 




Scriptwriter and Notre Dame graduate Don Roos explores the opposite of heterosexuality in his newest motion picture 
By THOMAS O'NEIL Observer Editor-in-Chief 1976-77 
Today, 1977 Notre Dame graduate Don Roos is the next Preston Sturges, the next Woody Allen -one of those few filmwriters who gets to direct his own movies and prune them dotingly like a rare purple rose of Cairo. His directorial debut, 'The Opposite of Sex,' hit theaters this past summer and the response has been, well, the opposite of disastrous. 
The New York Times called the movie "a wicked little gem." Time magazine hailed it as "the smartest, edgiest, most human and handsomely acted romantic comedy in elephant years." 
rt has some of his Indiana past in it, too. and enough homosexual antics to get his old Notre Dame professors hot under the roman collar. 
Martin Donovan portrays a homosexu­al Hoosier teacher who hits the road with pal Lisa Kudrow to track down his hunky boyfriend, who happens to have been swiped by Christina Ricci. The movie's best line belongs to Kudrow (of the television show 'Friends') who tries to console a road-weary Donovan by saying, "Well, this sure beats clapping erasers back in South Bend!" 
Country crooner Lyle Lovett has a sup­porting role as a sheriff with the St. Joseph County Police (prominently noted on his leather jacket). "And there's one more thing you may not notice in the film," Roos said. "In the script I describe the main house as having been built for an auto magnate -you know, one of those Studebaker execs back in the days when the ear plant was still in South Bend. We had to shoot the movie in Los Angeles, though, so it was tough -all about avoiding palm trees." 
Since leaving Hoosier cornfields for Hollywood palms in the late 1970s, Roos has had such other hit films as 'Boys on the Side' and 'Single White Female,' both of which included prominent gay characters. These films led Entertainment Weekly and other media to hail him as an early pioneer of cham­pioning sympathetic gay roles in main­stream films. As far out of the closet as Roos is today, he remembers being far inside back in his South Bend days. 
"It was very difficult," he recalled about being a gay student at his alma mater. "I was not aware of any gay cul­ture or underground at Notre Dame. There was none. I remember going to the library and looking up 'homosexuali­ty.' I was able to find a few books pub­lished around the turn of the century about this thing called 'inversion.' That was Notre Dame's entire collection on the subject." 
' 
' 

In recent years, Roos has paid close attention to the controversy that erupted at his alma mater when a gay stu­dent group was finally formed by the 1990s, then kicked off campus by administrators. "Back in my days at Notre Dame, there were no campus uprisings on the gay issue," he said, referring to the subse­quent demonstrations staged by hundreds of straight students in sup­port of the ousted gay group. "It was unthink­able that the macho football majority would ever rally behind gays, so I suppose things must be getting better. When I hear things like that, 
I'm more and more encouraged. 
"But I lind the Catholic church's stance on homosexuality so repres­sive. It's sad and it's a shame that Notre Dame priests teach shame." 
Roos remembers the rest of his college days with fondness. "I had wonderful professors who were far and above the norm for university teachers,"he added. "I look back and I'm grateful for the edu­cation they gave me." 
Roos first honed his public use of words while at Notre Dame. He worked on The Observer as a reporter, occa­sional feature writer and frequent typist. "Everybody on staff did lots of typing back then for extra money," he remem­bered. "What did The Observer pay us? Two dollars an hour?" 
But Roos hit the jackpot at Notre Dame in terms of someday fulfilling his 
'IWANTED IT TO BE ABOUT THE REAL AMERICAN HEARTLAND AND ABOUT A MAN WHO JUST HAPPENS TO BE GAY.' 
dream to become a top-paid screen­writer. 
His big break came his senior year when Notre Dame graduate Tony Bill, producer of the Oscar-winner 'The Sting,' came to campus to give a work­shop on scriptwriting. Roos signed up. 
"Tony read my scripts and said, 'You've got lots of talent. You must come out to Hollywood!' Well, I did. I was so naive back then. About a year after I graduated, I went out to L.A., showed up in his office and said, 'I'm here! You can hire me to write your next film!' He laughed and said, 'That's not how it works. You've got to come up with the movie yourself and write it and maybe then I can help you.' I was devastated," Roos remembered. 
Roos went to work writing scripts on spec, but he started with shorter, single­hour ones for TV. "Then I really lucked out," he said. "I was taking a night course at Santa Monica College when this woman who writes for Hart to Hart came by to give a talk." 
'Hart to Hart' was a favorite show of Roos and a notable ratings hit, starring Robert Wagner and Stephanie Powers as a hip husband-wife detective team. 
"I just so happened to have some spec 
DoNRoos 
Pictures agreed to make his first movie, 
'Love Field,' which is about a battered 
wife who pursues her obsession for 
Jackie Kennedy to Dallas' Love Field 
Airport where the Kennedys are due to 
arrive one November day in 1963. Orion 
cast Michelle Pfeiffer in the lead. 

Early buzz on the film was so good 
that Pfeiffer was considered a cinch for 
an Oscar nomination, but the movie sud­
denly got locked in distribution hell and 
couldn't be released to theaters when 
Orion liled for bankruptcy. 

Three years later, in 1992, 'Love Field' 
was finally released and Pfeiffer got her 
Oscar bid. She lost to Emma Thompson 
of 'Howards End,' but Roos won the 
attention of the town's top studio chiefs, 
whom he would not disappoint. His next 
lilm -'Single White Female' -firmly 
established him as one of the hottest 
writing tickets in town. The mega-hit 
raised slasher pies to a chic new height 
and launched Bridget Fonda's career. · Next came 'Boys on the Side', which 
was hailed by The San Francisco 
Chronicle as "a breakthrough hit" since 
it included a major lesbian role, played 
sassily by Whoopi Goldberg. 

The movie was a breakthrough for 
Roos, too. Suddenly, the buzz around 
Hollywood decreed that he was a lock 
r .


·Ec·''"··..; 
.A';'W"',"' ,:.· 
{ ,, 
e;~~"'-'"·;,,;' 




for his own Oscar nomination as a screenwriter. 
Unfortunately, he not only failed to get the bid -failure suddenly struck his entire career. Ilis next lilm, a remake of 'Diabolique' starring Sharon Stone and Isabelle Adjani, was a financial disaster mocked by lilm critics. Roos blames the collision of "three different visions of one lilm -mine, the director's and the stars." To make sure that such a wreck would never occur again, he vowed to direct his next picture himself. 
Lucky for Roos, Fine Line Features gave him the helm for his subsequent venture, 'Easy Women,' a budget of $23 million and Meg Ryan to star. Success started to look easy again until it was obvious that Roos and Ryan had two dif­ferent visions of one film and Ryan quit the project. 
"My life was suddenly a mess,'"Roos recalled. "My career fell apart in law suits." 
'The Opposite of Sex' therefore marks more than just another critical and box­office hit for Roos -it officially revives his reputation. 
The miracle took place,aecording to Roos, "because I kept the movie under the radar screen and I wouldn't let it suffer from star baggage. 
"I made it an ensemble comedy so nobody would insist on putting stars in it," he added. "The lead character is gay, so no one fought for the part. Also, we made it for very little money, about $5 million. Finally, I was able to make my movie my way. "His persistence paid off: as of now 'The Opposite of Sex' is Hollywood's top-grossing independent lilm of the year. 
Roos is especially proud of the fact that it's true to life. "That's why I set it in Indiana," he said. "I wanted it to be about the real American heartland and about a man who just happens to be gay." 
Roos is busy now preparing to direct his next film, 'Bounce,' and writing a new TV series for NBC's fall lineup in 1999. He's mum about further details. but adds, "No, there's no return I~'~· scripts I wrote for Hart to Hart," he added, "and it just so happened that a writer's strike hit Hollywood then. I gave her my scripts-and she hired me." 
Roos went from Hart to Hart to Dynasty to The Colbys before hitting any serious career snags. 
"That's when I worked on shows like Paper Dolls and Nightingales, you know, things that don't appear on your resume today," he explained. 
His big film break came when Orion 

L I 
I 
-~ 
~no 
OTHE 
Thursday, September 24, 1998 BSERVER ------------page II 




PPOSITE OF SEX' 
T 
he smartest, edgiest, most human and ndsomely acted romantic lmedy in elephant years.' 
ne Magazine 


photo courtesy of Sony Pictures 

Ivan Sergei (front) stars as Matt and Johnny Galecki as 
Jason in Don Roos' most recent film. 
Other work by Don Roos Movies: Boys on the Side Single White Female Love Field 

Television: Hart to Hart Dynasty 
.,. 


The Colbys Paper Dolls N ightengales 
' 
'. 


-----------------------------------------------·----------------------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 14, 1998 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 


Sosa hits two to tie McGwire 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
A day after he conceded the home run race, Sammy Sosa struck back. 
He hit home runs Nos. 64 and 65 on Wednesday, tying Mark McGwire for the record and breaking an 0-for-21 slump in the Chicago Cubs' 8­7 loss to the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The Cardinals faced Houston on Wednesday night in St. Louis, where McGwire has hit a Busch Stadium record 33 home runs this sea­son. 
The Cubs slugger, picking on his favorite pitching staff, homered against Milwaukee in the fifth and sixth innings, giving him 12 against the Brewers this season. 
Sosa's No. 65 gave him 11 multihomer games this sea­son, tying the major league record set by Detroit's Hank Greenberg in 1938. 
Sosa hit a solo shot to right field with one out in the fifth off rookie left-bander Rafael Roque, who also gave up McGwire's 64th homer. With two out in the sixth. he hit a 2-2 fastball 410 feet to straightaway center off rookie right-hander Rod Henderson. 
There was no mad scramble for the record-tying ball -it bounced off the bleachers and back onto the grass, where center fielder Marquis Grissom retrieved it and tossed it to the infield. Shortstop Mark Loretta then rolled it to Sosa in front of the Cubs' dugout. 
Both times, Sosa took a quick curtain call to chants of "Sam-my! Sam-my!" 

Mired in his worst slump of the season, Sosa said he was concerned only about getting the Cubs to the playoffs, while all McGwire had to worry about was swinging for the fences because the Cards were out of the race. 
"He's the one going to finish up there a little bit higher than me," Sosa said Tuesday. "You have to remember, my situation is different. I have to go out there and try to win the last five games." 
Plus, "He's swinging much better than me," Sosa explained. 

Sosa had not gotten a hit and had struck out eight times since hitting a grand slam last Wednesday in San Diego for No. 63. 
He walked his first two times up against Roque, then sent a 1-0, fastball 344 feet to the opposite field, giving the Cubs a 4-0 lead. His second homer made it 7-0, but the Cubs couldn't hold the lead. 

Sosa's 12 home runs against the Brewers are the most by a player against one team since Roger Maris connected 13 times off the Chicago White Sox in 1961, the year he hit 61 homers. 
Sosa's slump-buster came 
on the same day his native Dominican Republic began recovery from Hurricane Georges, which set off looting and street violence. Seventeen people died and much of the country lost power. 
Most of Sosa's immediate family members were in Chicago, where they had gathered for the "Sammy Sosa Celebration" last week­end, but the slugger was con­cerned about many relatives and friends back home. 
On Tuesday night, Sosa admitted he was struggling at the plate but promised his swing would return. The Brewers again cooperated. 
Earlier this month, Sosa connected for Nos. 59-62 against Milwaukee during a three-game series at Wrigley Field, jumping back into the home run race after McGwire had broken Maris' single-sea­son record on Sept. 8. 
McGwire broke his tie with Sosa by hitting home run No. 64 in Milwaukee on Friday night off Roque, then connect­ed for No. 65 on Sunday, along with what many believed was No. 66. 
But umpire Bob Davidson ruled fan interference and stopped McGwire at second with a ground-rule double off Henderson. 
County Stadium was the site of Hank Aaron's 755th and last home run, off Dick Drago on July 20, 1976. 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 

Pataki pleas for Yankees to stay 
Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. New York Gov. George Pataki doesn't want the New York Yankees to move. "They belong in the Bronx, period," Pataki was quoted as say­ing in Wednesday's editions of The New York Times. While Pataki has long said he wants the team to stay in the bor­ough, his latest statement is his strongest to date on the subject. 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has said he wants to be able to consider building a new Yankee Stadium in Manhattan, if that is what it takes to keep the Yankees in New York. But such a project could not go ahead without the governor's backing. 
Earlier, Pataki administration officials had been supportive of the Giuliani plan and it remained unclear Wednesday if that had changed. 
Pataki spokeswoman Zenia Mucha ducked questions as "hypo­thetical" about whether the governor would block any move to build a new stadium in Manhattan. 
Pataki at a campaign stop north of Albany on Wednesday was also vague. 
''I'm not going to tell the city what they should or shouldn't do. I wouldn't tell the mayor, I wouldn't tell the city council. I'm just letting people know my view," he said. 
New York City Council Speaker Peter Vallone, Pataki's Democratic challenger in this year's election for governor, has gained much support in the city by seeking to place a referendum on the November ballot on whether the city should be prohibited from spending money on a new stadium outside the Bronx. 
Giuliani has sought to block the referendum question from mak­ing it onto the ballot. Vallone forces have gone to court to try to get the question placed before city voters. 
Hoping to capitalize on the latest development, Vallone wrote to Pataki on Wednesday urging him to use his influence with Giuliani to get the Yankee Stadium referendum on the November ballot. 
"That's in litigation and I'm not going to jump in the middle of litigation involving the city of New York," Pataki said, refusing to say if he supported holding a referendum. 
Giuliani suggested Pataki's comments might have something to do with politics. 
• NFL 

Elway questionable for action against Washington 
Associated Press not set myself back," Elway Friday and played in Sunday's Asked if he feared the injury feel for Elway's availability 
said Wednesday. "The last 34-17 victory at Oakland, only could persist all season, Elway later in the week. 
DENVER thing you want to cto is set to aggravate the injury and said: "With a week of rest, I "If he says it feels tight and 
Determined to keep his yourself back for three or four depart in the second quarter. don't think it would. That's why he thinks he might pull it again, strained right hamstring from weeks." Backup Bubby Brister took it's got to be the right decision then John won't play," lingering throughout the sea­The Denver Broncos' quarter­over, completing 10 of 17 pass­that I can go play against the Shanahan said. "There's always son, John Elway might skip back was injured in the fourth es for 140 yards and two touch­Redskins and not have to worry a chance that if he plays, he Sunday's game at Washington. quarter of a 42-23 win over downs with one interception. about it getting worse and lin­could pull it again. But he could 
"It's a matter of whether I Dallas two weeks ago. After Elway has missed only 10 gering the rest of the year." sit out the next two weeks and think I can go in there and per­missing most of last week's games in his career because of Coach Mike Shanahan said pull it three weeks from now, form, not hold us back and also practice, he worked out on injury or illness. the Broncos will have a better too." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon • Midnight When you need copies, we're open! 
Early Spring Break 
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 
Days $279!\ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From 
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With 
Kitchen,? Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen 
$149!1998 BBB Award Winner!springbreaktravel.com 
1-800-678·6386 
"OWN A BMW" Earn $$ While you Learn 247-0736 
WANTED 
I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" t· shirts for me and my dad. If you sell them or have a few extra, please help me out. Call Michelle at 4· 0562. 
SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun•Nassau• Jamaica•Mazatlan 
•Acapulco·Bahamas Cruise•Fiorida•South Padre Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs. Lowest price Guaranteed. Call now for details! www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411 
MYSTERY SHOPPERS 
WANTED 
You Dine...We Pay Professional restaurant experience a must. Why not enjoy a meal out on us?Call PDB Management 1-888-743·7999 
NANNY FOR WEEKDAY AFTER· 
NOONS NEEDED TO WATCH BOY & INFANT GIRL IN GRANGER. 277-9969. 
Babysitter for 6 mo. old boy, twice/wk, approx. 9·noon or 3-6 pm. Close to campus. Contact Prof. Rob Easley 1·6077, reasley@nd.edu 
Part Time Help Wanted: Hypnotherapy Assistants ­Females only-$7.50/hr. Orientation and Training Sessions required of all applicants. James Gorman, 
271-9318 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEK· ENDS OR ND·SMC EVENTS. CALL 

243-0658. 

1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272·6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road,Exit #107, 1-800· 418-9487. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243·0658. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info: http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 219·291·7153. 
3,4,5 Bdrm Homes. 2 Blks From Campus. 240-0322 
RENT ROOMS 237-1919 
5 rooms for rent football weekends,located 2 miles off cam· pus.277·8340 
FOR SALE 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS 
198 MIN. $20 
CALL 258·4805 
For Sale 
Purdue Tix Will deliver to game Jeff@ (765)743-7299 

TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258·1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Ftbl. tix 
BUY-SELL 674-7645 
ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232·2378 PM 288·2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288·2726 
Need LSU tix 289·2918 
Always buying and selling N D foot­ball tickets. 289·8048 I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby broth­er and his friend (a prospective). If you can help me, please call 4· 0562. Ask for Michelle. 
I Need ASU TIX 243·2934 

BUYING N.D. TICKETS """"""" ALL GAMES... 277·1659 
FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS ALL GAMES 272·7233 .......... . 
I need 5 LSU tix. Call Eric x1808. 
WANTED! 
Purdue Ticket 
4·1067 
Need 1 Stanford tic. 
x0759 
Purdue GA for sale 
4·1896 

I need 1 Baylor ticket. My number is 219·634·1651. 
Need 2 pair of tickets for Purdue game for family friends. They will pay $50/ticket. 4·4221 (Peter) 
Have 2 LSU tix,will trade for 2 
STANFORD.277·8340 

HELP!\ I need TWO tickets to the STANFORD game. Call me (Amy) at 243-0247. 
I need 3 G.A.'s for Stanford & 2-4 for B.C. Also have two Purdue Stud Tix (married) to sell or trade. 4-2795 
PERSONAL 
WELCOME FRESHMAN KATIE BARKLEY 
$6 Haircuts VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 Lincolnway West Closed Sun & Wed 
M-T-Th-Fr-8-4 Sat8·3 

••ATIENTION LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING STUDENTs·· Original student group will hold support group meet­ing TONIGHT. Confidentiality will be respected. Call info line for details. 236·9661 
Need fallbreak ride to RI/MNCT-will split$ & driving. Camille x-2518 
Need a babysitter during the games? Call 
SHANNON@ 284·4451 
Need a life? Join the Observer .... 

Thursday, September 24, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• NFL 
Manning and Wuerffel hope to rekindle college magic 
A~sociarcd Press hasn't had a winning season much to a lot of people even WueriTel is in his second year before Wuerffel crafted a 48­since 1992. Indianapolis had the though it means just as much to with the Saints, but making just point scoring spree and Florida NEWOHLEANS worst reeord in the NFL last year Peyton and me." his fourth start. won it 62-37. Danny Wuer!Tnl and Peyton at :~-B and is coming ofT a 44-6 There's certainly not as much "The thing I remember about In that one, Wuerll"el hit 29 of 
Manning met in some memo­shellacking by the previously on the line, the teams Wuerffel playing against Peyton is that 39 passes for 381 yards and six rabh~ showdowns wlwn Florida winless New York Jets. and Manning play for now aren't those were always huge games," touchdowns. lie also ran for one. played Ttmnessee. Now they play "There probably won't be as as successful, and there won't be Wuerffel said. "Every time we Manning wasn't bad, complet­for tlw New Orlans Saints and much excitement about this one, nearly as many people watching. played Tennessee it was the ing 13 of 16 for 216 yards and Indianapolis Colts, and things I guess," WueriTel said. "There's Manning, the top draft pick game of the century." two touchdowns. aron't so nxdting anymore. not as much hype around this this year, has his painful transi­The pair squared off twice in "We put a lot of points on the 
On Sunday tlw Saints, oil" to a game and neither of us will tion to the NFL chronicled daily college. At Gainesville, Fla., in board," Wuerffel said. "I don't surprising 2-0 start, visit probably do anything like we did as the Colts' starting quarter­1995, over 85,000 watched expect either of us to do those Indianapolis (0-3). New Orleans then. So I guess it won't mean as back. Tennessee build a 30-14 lead kinds of things this time." 

The next year at Knoxville, Tenn., the Vols were No. 2, Florida No. 4. The game was on national television and played before 107,608 -at that time
the biggest crowd in NCAA histo­ry. Florida built a 35-point lead as WueriTel completed 11 of 22 for
•' 

!55 yards and four touehdowns, including one to cap an 80-yard drive on the Gators' first posses­sion. 



Communities ofFaith Sharing and Scripture Study 


./ Used, rare and 
' ~~ ···-.~
: ~rJ 

out-of-print books 
7ake a break 
Initial cost of $2.0C' Nationally -circu!ated ad Success rate of 50"/o

"*o focus on 


Time required: 2 months 
'I; 

wha-e really 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six 
(219) 232-8444 

JOIII US YOIIIGHY • 6: I 5-7PII • LIBRARY LOUIIGE 
SPANISH MASS .;· FR. VIRGILIO ELIZONDO FOUNDER, MEXICAN AMERICAN CULTURAL CENTER; PROGRAM DIRECTOR, TV MINISTRY FOR THE ARCHDIOCESE OF SAN ANTONIO STANFORD KEENAN HALL 
2'.'·'· 
·­

(WITH SPANISH CHOIR) THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 5:15P.M. FOLLOWED BY PICNIC ALL ARE INVITED 


page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 24, 1998 
Calendar of Events 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Mondays-Tuesdays; 11:30­
10:00 at "'. St. Paul's Chapel (F{sher Hall), Fridays, 12:00-4:45p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Call Campus Ministry Office at 631-7800 for a sch ule of 
more events. 


Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 26 
30 minutes after the game Rev. James T. Rahilly, C.S.C. 
45 minutes after the game-Stepan Center Rev. Charles B. Gordon, C.S.C. 
Sunday, September 27 
8:00a.m. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. Homilist Rev. James T. Rahilly, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. James T. Rahilly, C.S.C. 
Vespers 
7:15p.m. Rev. James K. Foster, C.S.C. 
Scripture Reading$ 
1st Reading Amos 6: 2nd Reading Timothy 6: 11-16 Gospel Luke 16: 19-31 

What Are We Building Here? 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Evenif you aren't going on a service trip this coming break, this article is about you. It's about each and every one of you. You'll only know how or why after wandering your way through the ponderings of a wayward traveller. I leave you, therefore, with only one option: to read on. 
During fall break two years ago, I was able to travel to Appalachia as part of a joint effort to bring students and alumni togeth­er for a work project, sponsored jointly by the Center for Social Concerns and the Office of Alumni Community Service. There were a few things that we knew about the undertaking when we began, but there was much that we didn't know. We knew that we would be working together, nearly twenty of us in all; we knew that we would be working with an organization called the Christian Appalachian Project (CAP); and we knew that we would be doing some type of con­struction work (however unprepared we knew ourselves to be for such tasks). What we didn't know, and what we didn't know we didn't know, was how much this trip, this veritable adventure, would mean to us as a community and as Christians. 
There is something in all of us that wants to do something noble, something beyond the ordinary. Especially as Christians, we know ourselves to be called beyond ourselves to act with justice, to lift up the poor, to shelter the homeless, to free the prisoner. Over time, we have been prodded, called, and sometimes even guilted (if I may create a verb) into service. No matter how, most of us have come to a place in our lives where we know that there is something in us that cannot be contented with living only for ourselves. It is just such a longing that often compels one to make the choice to spend a week of one's fall break somewhere other than at home or some other place where we can be virtually assured of a good time. On the surface there is a defi­nite risk in choosing to spend a week with relative strangers in an unfa­miliar land helping people whom we have yet to meet. There is some­thing courageous and noble about it, too. 
It is selfish, too. There is a degree to which such work provides an opportunity for us to satisfy that within ourselves which needs satis­faction, that space or place within us that needs to feel good about me. In the end, however, the experience, and the grace that comes with it, does not allow us to stop there. Our world is inevitably reoriented, our focus redirected and our hearts broken open. Whatever our reasons for going, in the end there is an inevitable movement toward the recogni­tion of ourselves as builders of something far greater than houses. 
On the way we met many whose lives of committed service humbled us in the face of our own feeble commitment. We met many who found contentment in a life with far fewer of the "necessities" of life. And we met each other. At the outset, we were two groups, alum­ni and students, brought together by Notre Dame, intending to do our part to save the world. In the end we were forced to recognize the com­monality of us all. Not only among our group of alumni and students, but with the people of the region as well. They were poor, but in so many ways, so were we; we were rich, but in so many ways, so were they. We were forced to assess the measures we use to calibrate wealth, and to consider what it is that will bring happiness. In the end, our hopes of saving the world could only be fully realized by the recogni­tion that our salvation was wrapped up with theirs. We, too, were being saved ... by the wisdom of a people, the beauty of a landscape, and by the grace that brought us all together. I am reminded of the words of an Aborigine woman who said: "If you have come to help me, you are wasting your time. But if you have come because your lib­eration is bound up with mine, then let us work together." 
So, what does all this have to do with you? That's something y'all'll have to work out. I have to believe that all of us feel called to something more. It may not be to build houses in Appalachia, but it is to build the Kingdom right here on this camus, right now. How each of us goes about doing that isn't always clear ... sometimes it seems down­right impossible to figure out. The fact remains that we're not in this alone... and if Campus Ministry or the Center for Social Concerns can be of any help at all, as you make your way through Notre Dame, then 0MPUS let us do that for you. Come build with us. MINISTRY 


...............-.....-~....,___._._.,.___.,.....-.... -----------­
Thursday, September 24, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR lEAGUf: BASEBA!..l 
Carter's three-run shot gives Frisco a Giant victory 

w-Boston 
x-Texas Toronto Anaheim 


uuu·.·card /(...............
1..\ 

w-NY Mets Chicago San Francisco 
does not include late games 
69 .561 72 .541 3 73 .538 3.5 74 .529 5 
':.:::::~: .. 

71 .553 71 .553 72 .541 2.5 
The Observer/Pale Cilella 
• 

Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO 

.Jon Cartf)r's three-run home run helped San Francisco beat Pittsburgh 4-I Wednesday and stay alive in the NL wild-card raen, but all the Giants could talk about was what happened on a tinld 2.000 miles away. 
"Mine was a big hit, but not as big as the dropped fly ball in Milwaukne." said Carlnr, whosn hornnr lwlpnd tlw Giants win as Mark Gardnnr and Hobb Nnn comhinml on a six-hittr1·. 
"I thought that game lin Milwaukee[ was over," Carter said. "What a scenario. That's a huge turnaround for us. It gives us a lot of hope." 
Carter, tlw Giants and every­body else at Candlestiek Park wnn) watc~hing a live fend on the big scTeCHl in ennterlield, just as tlw l'iratns wm·e about to bat in thn nighth, when Chicago's Brant Brown dropped a fly ball in the ninth in Milwaukee that gave the Brewers an 8-7 come­back win over the Cubs. 
It easily drew the loudest cheers of the day. 
"In a matter of minutes, everything changed," Giants manage1· Dusty Baker said. "When it was 7-0 [Cubsl. it didn't look too good. We were down 1-0 and [Chris] Peters was dnaling." 
But Carter's hit his three-run homer in the sixth, and one inning later, watching television gave them an even bigger boost. 
"I was warming up, and then I heard a roar," Gardner said. "It was a niee distraction." 
The Giants pulled to within 1 1/2 games of Chicago and 2 games of New York. The Mets playod Montreal on Wednesday night. 
"We got some breaks. llopefully, we'll gel some more breaks," Baker said. "Maybe it will make up for not getting many the first 51/2 months of the season." 


San Francisco finishes its horne schedule Thursday against the Pirates, then goes to Colorado for a three-game series. 
Gardner (13-5) won his fifth straight decision, matching his career high with 11 strikeouts and walking two. Hobb Nen fin­ished for his :J9th save. 
"Anything can happen, as we saw on .Jumbo Vision," Gardner said. "I don't think we've been a part of too many people's sce­narios for the playoffs, but here we are. It's getting tight now. It's time to bear down, and everybody's doing it. We haven't· given up." 
With San Francisco trailing 1­0, Rey Sanchez singled leading off the sixth and Barry Bonds saeril'iced for the first time in 
Division leader, w-Current wild card 
88 85 85 83 
88 88 86 
THE REIGER MANSION INN 

MICHIANA 'S BEST KEPT DINING SECRET! 
Voted best entree "Taste ofMichiana", 1998. Big city dining with small town atmosphere. Only 15 minutes from Notre Dame. Reservations accepted 
We also offer elegant overnight accommodations. 

317 LINCOLNWAY EAST* MISHAWAKA* INDIANA 255-3939 
• SPORTS Bmf:fs 
Advanced SCUBA-Classes begin Sept. 29. Previous certifica­tion is required. For more information please contact Bill Archer at 1-5443. 
Domer Run -The annual Dorner Hun is scheduled for October 10 at 11 a.m. Hace begins at Stepan Center. It is a 3 mile, 6 mile run and 2 mile walk. Pancake breakfast after the race. Hegister in advance at HecSports. It costs $6. Proceeds benefit the Catherine Peachey Foundation, Inc. for Breast Cancer Hesearch. For more information, contact HecSports at 1-6100. 
One Night Badminton -Sign-ups begin Sept.28 for the one night tournament. Singles and doubles divisions. The tourna­ment will be held on October 9 at 6 p.m. at the Holfs Sports Hecreation Center. For more information, contact HecSports .at 1-6100. • 
Saint Mary's Track -Anyone interested in track and field should attend a meeting on October 6 at 8 p.m. in Angela Atheltic Facility on the campus of Saint Mary's College. 
Men's Basketball Season Sale -Get your season tickets at the Joyce Center Gate 10 Box Office for $44. Bring your ID and come anytime between September 30 -October 2 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For more information call 1-7356 
nine years and just the fourth time in his career. 
Jeff Kent walked and Carter hit his fifth homer for the Giants, his 16th of the season. It ended a 16-inning scoreless streak for Peters (8-10). who allowed all four runs and eight hits in 6 1-3 innings. 
"I came in with a slider and le!'t it over the plate," Peters said. "He's a good, experienced hitter. I gave him something too good to hit." 
Expos 3 Mets 0 

After the Chicago Cubs dropped the ball, the Mets failed to do anything with it. 
Given a chance to move one game ahead of Chicago atop the NL wild-card race, the Mets fiz­zled Wednesday night, getting just three hits in a 3-0 loss to the Montreal Expos. 
Bob Henley homered in the second inning orr Bobby Jones (9-9) and winner Carl Pavano (6-8) added an HBI double later in the inning for the Expos, who went 8-4 against New York this year. 
With three games to go, the Mets remained tied with the Cubs, who blew a seven-run lead and lost 8-7 at Milwaukee when left fielder Brant Brown dropped a bases-loaded fly with two outs in the ninth. 
After an off-day Thursday, the Mets finish with a three-game series at Atlanta while the Cubs close with a three-game series at Houston. 


makingthe future brighter... 
everyday! 
Take a look at what we have to offer for your future success. Challenging and rewarding Business Management and Technical Opportunities around the world are waiting for you everyday at Procter & Gamble. 

P&G is consistently recognized by Fortune Magazine as one of the most admired corporations in America. Visit us on the world wide web at: 
www.pg.com/careers 
Procter&Gamb/e 
Notre Dame 

WHAT: Technology and Engineering at Procter & Gamble Featuring Information Technology, Product Supply and Product Development 
WilEN: Thursday, September 24, 7:00-8:00 P.M. 
WIIERE: Center Continuing Education, Rooms 110 & 112 Refreshment~ Provided/Casual Dress All CHEG, ME, CPEG and CS Majors encouraged to attend. 

·­

I 
a £Wi 
-----~·------·.---------~~~ 

I 
Thursday, September 24, 1998 
..


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

For a More Just and Humane World 
'\ 
CENTER FACULTY LIAISONS AND FACULTY FELLOWS 
Liaisons: 
John Borkowski, College of Arts and Letters 
631-6549 John.G.Borkowski.1 @nd.edu 
Edward Trubac, College of Business Administration 
631-7237 Edward.R.Trubac.1 @nd.edu 
James Taylor, College of Engineering 
631-5533 James.I.Taylor.1 @nd.edu 
Anthony Trozzolo, College of Science 
631-5768 Anthony.M.Trozzolo.4@ nd.edu 
Teresa Godwin Phelps, Law School 
631-5763 Teresa.G.Phelps.1 @nd.edu 
Fellows: 
Michael Etzel (1997-1999) 
Department of Management 631-5925 Michaei.J.Etzel.1@ nd.edu 
Steve Bass (1998-2000) 
Department of Computer Science and Engineering 631-8320 Steven.C.Bass.1 @nd.edu 
Faculty Workshop Opportunities at the Center 
Community-based Learning Information Session November 11, 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Workshop and Summer Service Projects Site Visit November 20, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
"ffNotre Dame~· mission is, in part, to 
make our students more sensitive to 
injustice and oppression, we need to 

-· 
search for new ways ofincorporating this mission into our individual courses 
and departlnental curriculum. The explicit use ofexperiential and service learning is one vehicle for doing that; such use as a launching point for under­graduate research is an underutilized 
:'~Jossibility. The Center is a key contribu­tor to this important work. " 
John Borkowski, the Center's 
first Faculty Fellow ( 1996­1998) and current Liaison with 
the College of Arts and Letters 

Faculty Opportunities 
On behalf of the Center, I am pleased to take this occasion to thank faculty who have been involved in Center work over the years and to invite those who have not had the opportunity before, to do so this year. Since we opened our doors in 1983, the Center has provided opportunities for faculty involvement in addition to facilitating academic offerings (described on the opposite page). Working with Liaisons in each of the Colleges, complemented by the recently­established Faculty Fellows program (see box on this page), the Center cooper­ates with faculty to incorporate social concerns into their teaching, research and advising. Workshops and one-on-one consultations on the pedagogy of experien­tial learning and community-based learning (often called service-learning) provide a major vehicle for this work. 
In addition, because of the generosity of donors, the Center has begun an annual faculty competition for the design of new courses or major re-design of existing courses that link the course with community opportunities in social con­cerns. The 1998-1999 award winners are: Rob Easley, Dept. of Management; Mike Etzel and Pat Murphy, Dept. of Marketing; Carolyn Miller, Center for Business Communication; Maura Ryan, Dept. of Theology; and Susan St. Ville, Gender Studies/Theology. Information about the 1999-2000 year competition will be available in early spring semester. 
A special partnership between the Center and the South Bend Heritage Foundation, a community development corporation on the west side, allows for faculty involvement through course-based projects for students as well as for research possibilities. 
The Center also invites faculty to serve as resources for the Center in a variety of ways. Some serve as facilitators for "The Church and Social Action" (Urban Plunge), opening their homes for a one-evening gathering to provide stu­dents with an occasion to further their reflection and analysis of their city experi­ence. Some faculty offer their expertise as guest lectures for preparatory ses­sions of the experiential learning courses the Center facilitates. Others serve as advisors to the service and social action groups and some offer directed readings on related social concerns topics. 
There are many ways to get involved and I hope you will choose one or more. I look forward to working with you. 
Peace, 
l{~~tJr 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D. 
Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research 
(631-5319 or Kathleen.M.Weigert.2@nd.edu) 
The Center for Social Concerns provides educational experiences in social con­cerns inspired by Gospel values and Catholic social teachings. Central to this process is enhancing the spiritual and intellectual awareness of students, faculty, staff, and alumni/ae about today's complex social realities, calling us all to service and action for a more just and humane world. 

we -~~ 

Thursday, September 24, 1998 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 ' ' ''f.J.~: ·· ... '' ' ·.. ,' . ' 
ll®Urttl® TlOiJl!®@@]/flJ ®®!iWU@@ ®fJfJ@J fffJ®©U®O fJ&llU®mJ
. . ;•.,_. 

Curricular Offerings 
Social Concerns Seminars (One Credit Courses) The Center coordinates one-credit experiential learning courses (graded S/U) that focus on issues such as poverty, diversity, urban life, communities in action, etc. Housed primarily in the Department of Theology but cross-listed with other departments as well, these courses offer readings from the Catholic social tradition and provide students with the opportunity for engaged learning with co-teachers in community-based sites. 
Appalachia Seminar (THEO 361) Fall, Spring Each Fall and Spring Break approximately 120 students travel to the Appalachia region of Kentucky and West Virginia. Students spend the week working side by side with the people of this region. Through physical labor and person-to-person contact, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze social forces there. 
Chicago City of Hope Seminar (THEO 368) January In partnership with Sinsinawa Dominican Apostolic Volunteer Program, this five-day seminar is a chance to experience the Gospel in action. The seminar will include service and learning in neighborhoods of the city which arc often considered to be hopeless. Evening reflections will have a strong emphasis on spirituality and social analysis. 
Children and Poverty Seminar (THEO 368) Fall During the week of service-learning in Boston and New York City, students will learn about issues affecting American children, such as foster care, AIDS, heallhcarc, the juvenile justice system, teen pregnancy, education, and childcare. 
The Church and Social Action -Urban Plunge (THEO 365C) January This course is a 4!l-hour immersion program, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting. To date, over 3,000 students have participated in urban plunges. Participants choose from among approximately 50 cities. 
Civil Righl'i Seminar (THEO 368) Spring This seminar will expose students to the relevant historical issues which laid the foundation for the civil rights movement of the I950s and 60s in America. Students will receive hands-on exposure to the cities (Atlanta, Memphis, Nashville), communities, leaders and educational institutions that helped to shape the ideology and philosophy of the movement 
Cultural Diversity Seminar (THEO 362 I SOC 362) Fall This seminar explores the rich cultural heritage of Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods and immigrant tradition. The corresponding problems of urban life and racism also arc examined during the semester hreak experience. 
Holy Cross Mission Seminars-Coachella and Phoenix (THEO 368) January These seminars during the January Break build upon the efforts of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
L 'Arc he Community Seminar (THEO 368) Spring This seminar centers on participation over break in the L' Archc Community founded by Jean Vanier. Students explore issues of disability through active involvement. 
Le~tdership Issues Seminar (THEO 369) Fall The Leadership Issues Seminar is designed for students working in a leadership capacity promoting community service or social action. 
Mexico Seminar (THEO 366) Spring Thi.~ seminar provides an international service opportunity through two weeks of immersion in Oaxaca, Mexico during the last two weeks of May. 
Migrant Experiences Seminar (THEO 368) Spring This seminar otTers a unique immersion into the lives of migrant farm workers in Florida during the spring harvest. Students work in the fields, live with migrant families, and assist agencies that serve workers. 
Washington Seminar (THEO 363 I GOVT 496) Fall, Spring Approximately 22 students travel each semester break to the nation's capital to explore crucial issues of the day from a variety of perspectives. In Washington, students meet with dedsion-makcrs, mcmhcrs of congress, non-governmental organizations and church leaders. • 
Three Credit Courses In addition. the Center coordinates the following three-credit service-learning course (graded S/U) which is structured around eight weeks of summer community service: 
Summer Service-Learning: Confronting Social Issues (THEO 360) Fall Sue Cunningham, M.A., Don McNeill. C.S.C., Ph.D., and Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D. 
Three Center staff arc Special Professional Faculty with concurrent appointments in academic departments. They teach the following three-credit courses in 199R-1999: 
Don McNeill, C.S.C.. Ph.D. and Andrea Smith Shappell. M.A. Theology and Social Ministry (THEO 27-t) Fall Thcolog)' and Community Service (Theo 273) Spring 
Jay Brandenberger, Ph.D. Leadership and Social Responsibility (PSY 4071SOCIAMSTIIIPSIHESHJ Fall Childn·n and Poverty (PSY 405/594H) Spring 
Kathleen Maas Weigert. Ph.D. Introduction to Peace Studies (liPS 320) Fall Students and Social Change: 1960s to 1990s (AMSTIIIPS 421) Spring 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, Center Associate Director for Academic Affairs and Research, with newest Center Faculty Fellow and Computer Science and Engineering Professor Steve Bass. 


~~._~_...sus_.._..,__a•w..------------~---~-___._ -~--~ 
The Observer/Meg Kroener A closer look at the attitudes and lifestyles of many college football players has brought scrutiny to the val­ues being taught on and off the field. 
page 18 

-Insight 
continued from page 20 
around alcohol, drugs {mostly performance-enhancing) and women. Because of their size and status, football players felt an obligation to manipulate other people in the same way their coaches controlled them. Do coaches realize how fragile the lives of the young adult 11H'11 in their care really are? Reading about the mental and occasional physical abuse these coaches inflicted on playprs made me question them too. 
Well, in the worst case, maybe some or most of the inhuman treatment occurs at a school like Michigan. But what, according to the most recent Harris poll, is the most recognized college football team in America? Our beloved University of Notre Dame. If that fact doesn't constitute a big-time Division I football program, then I don't know what does. 
Is it possible our athletes have that winning-is-every­thing mentality too? Is it acceptable to play in severe pain for the sake of winning, or believe that hitting hardest is the ticket to NFL fame and wealth? Well, if that attitude does exist here, even behind closed doors, then we have no one to blame but ourselves. We're the ones rewarding the wins and rehashing the losses in constant pursuit of perfec­tion -an undefeated season, a national championship. We're the ones praising the players who are limping back on the field for the final drive, or flattening the opposition with a bone crushing hit. 
Maybe this book just got me thinking too much. Maybe not. 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Leffers 
continued from page 20 
tain Lindsay Treadwell. 
As a freshman, she appeared in all but one match on her way to being named to the Big East All-Rookie Team. She led the Irish in blocks 19 times that season, and had the sec­ond-most kills .of any Irish net­ter. 
Last year, Leffers was named to the first team all-Big East, as well as being one of four members of the Irish on the all-district squad. She was near the top of the conference in a number of key categories, including hitting percentage and blocks. 
In the off-season, Leffers remained in peak condition prior to her injury, playing as a reserve on the Notre Dame women's basketball team. 
Leffers' height, at 6'4", will be a dominant factor for the Irish. She is also a strong leader for the Irish, with tremendous hitting and block­ing skills. 
"One of the things that's happened through her injury is she's been forced to work more on her defense," Brown l'aid. "Obviously the fact that she's been a major contributor for us will be important, as well as her court presence, competitive drive, and experi­ence." 
"She's just one of those play­ers who refuses to lose and demands more of those around her. Her attitude on the court is very competitive, and I think we need that right now." 
Leffers has been a potent all­around athlete since her high school days in Tampa, Fla. 
She developed strength in track and field, finishing sec­ond in the state shot put junior year .and among the top five in the discus her sophomore and junior years. She was also all­state twice as the MVP of her Berkeley Prep· basketball team. 
Her greatest accomplish­
ments were in volleyball, where she was a first team all­American in rankings by USVBA and Volleyball maga­zine. 
She was named Gatorade player of the year in the South, along with being a three-time all-state selection. 
Brown will be looking for good things out of Leffers as she returns to full strength this season. 
Leffers was named to the pre-season all-Big East squad. She is second (to Treadwell) on the Notre Dame career hit­ting percentage list, and also second in career block average at 1.35 per game. 
"I can't really make any long-term goals without know­ing how my knee's going to be, and where they'll need me most on the team," Leffers said. 
Right now, she is aiming to get back to 100 percent strength, and continue to improve every day. If she can accomplish those goals, the Irish should be in good shape. 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
Leffers' dominating play at the net has been missed by Notre Dame as it has started the season slowly. 

• 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
dominate the third match. 
"Calvin is a solid team, and we needed to be in the system consistently to make great things happen," Joyce said. 
Nobody on the Belles had more than 10 attacks which, Joyce said, "aren't really fab numbers." 
ENTERTAINMENT BOOKS~., 
2 for 1or 50% offcoupons for Wo1fie's, P:at's Colonial Pub, 
Macri's Deli, Macri's Bakery, Coach's, Hollywo()d Video (6), 
Continental Airlines, Greenfees, Francesco's, ~~paJohnrs 
Pizza, Lula's and many more... $25/book. GoodNOW thru 
Oct. '99. % of profit over.goal will go to.•Jh. to J.,ife & anoth­
er charity. Help 4 good causes: 

Cross School 8th Grade, & 2 charities! 
For either offer: call234-9177 or;sendorder thnicarlip~s·· 
mail to Carol Napoli/Fatima Retreat Center. 
to Holy Cross School. Thank 
The Belles who are tied with Calvin for third place in the MIAA going into last night's game, will have another shot at the Knights. 
"We will see them again this season, and we will be ready to face them," Radovich said. 
"The second match proved we can beat them if we can carry on good play," LeB~au said. "We will beat them when we meet again." 







'' 

Thursday, September 24, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
p 
S S T

B E A Ml I S L I P 
A 
T 
T Y

L I R A 
S C A L A 
A p
T 
R

0 N T H 
E 
R 0 C K S 
R 
AGE

C E S A 
R • N E~~J_ 
T E R E 
L 0 
I S E
I

-L 
IN

C H 0{1 
c 
G­
~~~CL 
A S 
H E S

L I N A•REMO. 
p I 
T L C
T C H 
E

A F 
R.
T. 
LA

N I H 
I 
L·T-A•HIU 
I D E R 
E
L 
AlP E R

-E 
A

M A H 
L 
ER~BAN 
L­
L 
0 
E S
s

A L 
0 
u 
ALE c• 

p L 
T H 
A 
T 
WI 
S T
WI
u s 
0 T
S E

L 0 
TERIASTI 
E D Y 
Y 
E A A
N E
E S

EW 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS JAY: Connie Chung, Isaac Hayes, Jacqueline Susann. Robert Plant 
Happy Birthday: You're colorful, dashing and eager to conquer the world with your charm. You'll have it all if you're careful how you treat oth­ers this year. Jumping from one thing to another. will be your downfalL Pick your direction and don't wander off course. Changes are heading your way; keep in mind that acceptance is the key to getting ahead. Your num­bers: 6, 15, 24, 33, 42,49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You'll find it hard to keep your cool today. Family members may strike a chord that will ignite your fury. Physical 

BILL AMEND 
activities around the house will be your best bet. 00000 
"(ou KNoW, SoN, THERE IS 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Friends will give you sound advice if 

DAD, I 
SoMEll-ttNG EXT'RA SPECIAL ALREADY 
You CAN GtVE HER THAT WoN'T CoST you ANY 
MoNEY. 
IHE.R£FOR£., l \-\/WE. NO REA.50N TO 
DOUeT Tl-\£. A.CCURA.C:Y 
OF T\-\E INFORMATION. 
47 Blacken 48 Actress MacDowell 5t Man with a mission 53 Abbr. after a 
comma 54 More urbane 56 "Tasty!" 57 Workout 
incentive 61 Most lenient 62 Rat 63 Ornate 64 It had many 
missions 
DOWN 
1 "The Racer's Edge" 2 Diva's device 3 Workout activity 4"Beau --" 5W.W.II command 

43 Liquored up 55 Actress Lee of 44 Nonvolcanic 
TV and film erup'tions 58 Grunts, 49 Cuckoo 
so to speak

50 Old Dodge model 
Join The Observer 
59 "Bear" 

52 Reply in a children's 60 Modernist, argument for short 
staff. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75c per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
LIK£ SOME.­

THE. Birthday Baby: You'll be eager to try anything new that comes your way. Don't lose control or you may find it difficult to get back on track. Tills will be a 
FI\CTS\ 
TI-\lNG fl.. 

tempting life, one in which your willpower and determination will be tested 
many times over. Recognizing spirituality will be the key.
GUILTY 
PE.RSON 
WOULD 5A'<. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be thinking more about children. Get involved in organizations that help youngsters who are experiencing difficulties. You have a lot to offer and a lot to learn. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): This will be an emotional day. Your personal life may interfere with your perfor­mance at work. Be careful not to let your co-workers fall privy to your dilemma. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pre­sent your ideas to those who you feel may have an interest in forming a partnership. Look into the legal as­pects before you make any promises. I 00 I 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): ' Don't make agreements. You will I come up empty-handed if you expect 1 others to give you a fair shake. Don't 
1 

let your ideas out of the bag unless \ you have them protected. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your mate will be anything but accommodating today. Count on your relationship taking a direct tum based on your ability to humor your part­ner. Make sure that it's worth your time and effort. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Opportunities to advance will be yours. You will be able to make pro­fessional changes that will bring you higher wages. Someone you work with may not have your interests at heart.OOO 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Chil­dren will need your attention. Your ability to relate to any age group will be to your benefit. Educational or cre­ative pursuits will be admired by oth­ers.OOO 
• 
•. -
,. 

DILBERT 
WI-IO 5AID I MEETING r'\'( Ot:JITCTIVE5? 
ACROSS 
t Not occurnng naturally 7 Beach resort near San Diego 
t 3 Unfortunate landing spot for a parachutist 
t5 Fabric border t& Workout expert t&Bon--­19 Not exactly 
PG-rated 20 Dos halved 21 Court wear 23 Incite 24 There was 
much of this 1n Shakespeare 25 Lilly of Lilly Pharmaceutical 26 N.B.A. venue, with "the" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
WASN'T 
2&Acclaim 30 H M.O. employee Jt "Midnight Cowboy" role 33 "A bird," ''a plane" or "Superman" 
preceder 34 Decorator, e.g. 38 Tic-tac-toe 
failure 39Where the Un1ted Nations' setup was discussed 40 Pilot's announcement. 
for short 43 Insolent look 45 Bygone leader 46 Mo. to celebrate 
National Clown Week 
6 Family figures? 7 Skin: Prefix a Comedienne 
Booster 9 Year in Nero's reign 10Workout machine u Hidden items. 
sometimes 12 Transplant 14 How obvious? 
Very much so! 15 Solo, in a way 17 Kind of aide 21 Flushed 

TbLD "(oU, I DoN'T WANT 'fouR oPERA 
TICKETS.' 
SCOTT ADAMS 
T\-\A.T SOUNDS
Cr\E.CK 

22 Gather on a surtace, chemically 
27 Fannie or Ginnie follower 29 Cannes co. 32 Sesames 35 Howard of comedy 36 D.C.'s Union 
37 Irish national symbol 38 Rampaging 41 Hurty-burly 42 Sit in the cellar 


you're willing to confide in them. Your relationship may be under duress. Step bad and take a breather from one another. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will want to make some minor career changes today. Go after your goals. Look into ways that you may be able to work out of your home environ­ment.OOOO 
CANCER (Jwte 21-July 22): You'll be beside yourself if you feel that your partner has been taking you for granted. You mustn't complain if you want to keep things amiable. It's time to think of yourself first. 000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Problems with your boss will be a direct result of a fellow worker putting the blame on you. Try not to let your colleagues know what your intentions are. 000 
FOXTROT 
G 
i WHo AM I KtDDtNG? ~~ I CAN'T AFFoRD To GET DENISE AN't'THtNG NtCE FoR ouR ANNIVERSARY. 
• College rivals Peyton 
• San Fran cisco gets 

• Sosa hits two homers 
Manning and Danny 
back into the wild-card 

to pull even with 
race with a victory over 

Wuerffel prepare to
McGwire at 65, but his 
Pittsburgh.

square off in the pros. 
Cubbies drop the game 
to the Brewers. 
• 
PORTS 
p.13 
p.l5
p.l2 

page 20 -------------------------THE ----------------Thursday, September 24, 1998
0 BSERVER 


Leffers' return sets new Irish attack 
Struggling netters  
hope junior can  
provide spark  
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN  
Sporrs Writer  
Mary L<•ITers is buck in full  
•  foro~ for tho Notrn Damn vol­lnyball team and thn Irish arn  
anxious to gd her back into  
tlw starting linn-up.  
Lnffnrs.  a  junior  middle  
bloek<~r. saw her first action of  
tlw I<J98 season last we<)kend,  
tallying fivn  kills and three  
blocks  in  a  loss  to  New  
llampshirn.  
/\!though shn only saw limit­ 
ed minut!)S in that match. she  
should bn ready to go in time  
for Notre Dame's rwxt match.  
a  homP mnPting with Snton  
Hall Oct. :!..  
"llopefully, by the limn  we  
havP our rwxl matches, she'll  
be abiP to  be  a  pn~tty  strong  
contributor,"  head  coach  
Debbie Brown said.  
"I just need these two weeks  
to get back into it. I've only The Observer/Joe Stark  
had four practices now," said Junior middle blocker Mary Leffers (8) injured her knee in a scrimmage last April and hopes to make an  
Leffers. ''I'm working my way impact when she returns to the starting lineup.  
back in. I'm hoping to be able t<i contribute as much as I did  scrimmage against Purdue.  said Leffers. "It was  really  timing down and working with  
the past more."  two  years,  if  not  She underwent surgery later that month.  frustrating that I couldn't go out there physically, but men­ the setters. Hight now, blocking's a little down."  her  
LeiTers has been recovering from an anterior crueiate liga­ment jury in her right knee, which occurred in an April  "I've never had an injury that's taken me out of one day of volleyball practice before, so it's a learning situation,"  tally I wanted to so badly." "She's worked incredibly hard," said Brown. "It's now just a matter of getting her  LeiTers is the most experi­enced member of the Irish squad, other than senior cap-see LEFFERS I page I 8  

• SA! NT fv'!r.sr/s Vm.tEYBAU. 

Knights attack too much for Belles 
By DANA KIDNEY picked up another 31 assists Sports Wrirer and now averages 10 assists per game. 
The Calvin College Knights "We need to play the good carne away with a win against ball that we are capable of the Saint Mary's Bcllns last throughout all four matches; night, beating them in the we need to lind our eonsistnn­first. third, and fourth gamns. ey," Martin said. 
Although the Belles were The Belles now stand at 5-9 able to take the second game overall. 15-8, their consistency died "We played great floor down going into thn third and dnfensn and had some truly fourth. awesome blocks at the net," 
"It looks like we are dellnite­Joyce said, "but we couldn't ly improving and are on our keep it up throughout all four way to an awesome season," matches." freshman Jolie LeBeau said. Key players for the Knights "We all know that we arc bet­included sophomore /\nn ter than Calvin, and we should Wiersma. who had three have beat them." serves for points and gave 
"We need to improve on our Calvin an early led in the first continuity before our matches game. this weekend," coach Jennie Despite 18 great digs by Joyec said after the loss. Saint Mary's junior Agnes Bill 
Calvin defeated Saint Mary's and another 22 by freshman 15-10, 8-15. 15-2, and 15-9. Angie Meyers, Calvin scored 
"Our serves as a whole were eonsistcntly throughout thn much better, and we came out last two matehes. Leading strong, but Calvin played scorers for Calvin included tough," junior Mary Rodovich junior Alana Belrose and said. Hodovieh served up 14 senior Erin llall, whose com­points throughout the <wening. bined efforts allowed Calvin to Freshman Suzanne Martin 
see BELLES/ page 18 



vs Purdue vs. St. John's Saturday, I :30 p.m. Saturday, 7:30p.m.
SPORTS 
Cross Country Notre Dame Invitational 
ATA 
(ktober 2, 3:30 p.m. 

vs. Indiana vs. Seton Hall Friday, 7:30p.m. October 2, 8 p.m. 
GLANCE 





