



School violence a challenge for education majors 
By MFGHAN DONAIIUE 
New; \XIrirn 
Vioii'IH"P in sdwols is a fast-growing problnm in today's sor.iPly-and it's turning up tlw prnssurn J'or lr•ariiPrs and Pduralion majors. 
llnyond inslrurling lr•arhr·rs in malhnmalirs, J·:nglish and srir•JH'<' in rlass. prr•sPnt and futurn !Par·lwrs must IParn Llw lwsl ways to handll' stu­dPnts who lash out or n•sort to violnn'('(• lll'rausP tlwy an· unahlr• to dr•al with frustrations and pnr­sonallwndiraps. 
ll<•lp with tlwl daunting lask is roming from tlw South lli'IHI Community Srhool Corporation. Tlw organization <TPatPd an PlnmPntary studPnt rodn of rondurl dPsignPd to n•gulatn studnnt bnhavior by 
outlin­ 
i  II  g  
slipula­t i II n S  '  I'M IN THIS [MAJOR] BECAUSE I  
a  n  d  LOVE KIDS AND THEY NEED  
r  o n  - 

HOPE. IF WE DON'T HELP THEM,
Sl'!(lW­IH'I'S. 
WIIO KNOWS WHERE THEY'LL GO?' I s s ­u () s 
docu­TIIISJJliAJG/1 lll 1111 tl'fl rang<' from lighting to drug possm;sion. Each violation has a contact p<'rson to consult and a rncomnwtHiation for sus­pPnsion or nxpulsion. Thnso rules arn made in ordPr to protnr:t tlw students as well as the tnadwrs and stall'. 
Though most Pl<'lllPnl.ary schools have social work<'rs and psychologists on hand to hnlp deal with any situations that arisn. tho nnw code of con­durl is an additional nwasun1 to protnt:l students. tParlwrs and stall'. 
"Tlwn• will always bn problnms in schools." said Trish llaigh, an nducation major at Saint Mary's Collngl'. "W<' Ill'<'d to look for thn signs, not just wait for a studnnl to nxplodn. I'm in this lmajorl because I low kids and llwy nnr•d lwpn. If wc1 don't help llwm. who knows wlwn1 tlwy'll go?'' 
As a studnnl-t<1ariH·r of fourth gradn at a local srhool. llaigh said slw has dnalt with UIH1XJlOCtnd violr•JH'I' on a fr1w diffpn•nt ocrasions. Luckily, shn said. lhnn• an1 ouliPls within tlw community to lwlp kids wilh diflirultins -among tiH11ll, tho Madison Child Can• CnntPr and Chartnr. 
llaigh rncalls an inridont not long ago when a 
see VIOLENCE I page 4 

ENDING AN ND TRADITION? 
Camping-out for foot­ball tickets could be a thing of the past 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
Camping out for football tiekots could take on a new look rwxt year aftm-concerns about alcohol consump­tion and safety were raised by Bill Kirk, assistant vice pr!)Sidtmt for Hnsidence Life. 
Thn alcohol committee of thr) Campus Life Council ICJ.CI is examin­ing thn f(>otball tickc)t distribution sys­tem and plans to makn a rncommen­dation for changes to the council by Thanksgiving, according to Mickey Doyle, off-campus snnator and eom­mittee chair. 
The committee's investigation stems from concerns expressml by the athlnt­ic department and campus security after this year's ticket distribution at the Joyce Center, which involved stu­dents camping out overnight. 
"I couldn't in good conscience rec­ommend to the athletic department that they continue the distribution without changes for next year," Kirk said. 
Besides the alcohol consumption, the administration is especially concerned with student safety during the 5 a.m. rush, as people begin crowding toward the ticket windows. 
Kirk also expressed concern over the fairness of the systc1m. which allows people to skip ahead in line and the large amounts of trash left outside the Joyce Center after the students leavn. 
"I think students shared a lot of our concerns," Kirk said. "I think some students wen~ embarrassed by the way the place looked." 
DoyiP agreed, adding that stud<mts are also concerned about the 5 a.m. rush. 
"l think everybody r<lalizns some­thing needs to bn changed," he said. "We're going to do our best to makn sure the tradition is kept alivn and everyone can have fun." 
see CAMP-OUT I page 6 

McCoy looks at personal ethics 
By JENNIFER COLEMAN 
News Writer 

Bowen McCoy, a retired managing partner of Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc. spoke last night in the first in the O'Hara Lecture Series in Business Ethics. His speech, entitled "The~ parable of Sadhu," focused on the challenge peo­ple face in applying their own ethical values to their business practices. 
"Buzz" McCoy graduated 
The Observer/Ernesto Lacayo from Stanford University in Bowen McCoy addressed challenges people in the business world 
1958 with a bachelor's degree face in applying their own ethics to their situations. in economics. After spending 
two years in the army, McCoy rnturned to school to complete a Masters in Business Administration at llarvard University. 
In 1982, McCoy began study­ing ethics. As a result he creat­od a sabbatical program for himself that could be devel­opf~d for others in tho company as well. For three months he was in a total immersion expe­rience in the Himalayas with a Bible, three companions, and basic survival tools. 
An experience that happened on his trip impacted him so much that he wrote an article 
entitled "Thn Parable of Sadhu." flo encountered a r<1li­gious man. noar doath. in the snow. No group that passed was willing to takn full respon­sibility for the man's safety. 
McCoy, and eventually the rest of his group left the man. The incident had such a signif­icant impact on McCoy that he reflected upon his actions in business as well. It madP him reflect where hn stood on an ethical level. 
H.is definition of a leader of the future tends to lend itself 
see MCCOY I page 4 



The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 30, 1998 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Student receives early diploma as last dying wish 
AUSTIN, Texas 
~--------, which included the songs "Pomp and Cynthia Wilson's dying wish was to graduate Circumstance" and "The Eyes of Texas." from the University of Texas. Wilson wore a cap and gown which she was 
That dream came true just weeks before she later buried in. died at her home on Tuesday, Sept. 22. "It is the most meaningful graduation that I 
Wilson, 25, had been battling cervical cancer had ever attended and suspect I ever will since last Oct. when she was originally diag­attend," White said. nosed. She went through extensive chemother­Wilson had one other wish, to see a UT foot­apy and was diagnosed as terminal in July. ball game. Friends made arrangements for her 
Her graduation was made possible by a col­to fly to Austin and sit in a skybox. 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Ranting away 
Well, we haven't even made it through September before the complaining has begun here at Notre Dame. And I'm not talking about the perennial whimpering over the football team, either. · p F II 
. . 0 ustm . erre
The v1ewpomt page 

Assistant Viewpoint 
writers and sidewalk 

Editor
chalk artists are busier than ever, finding plenty of gripes and complaints to "inform" us about. 
Maybe this year we do have some legiti­mate problems to deal with. Except for the idea of non-discrimination, the PSA hasn't found any of them yet. And even its slant on that issue is terribly flawed. Additionally, one member recently wrote in The Observer on how she planned to hold a vigil outside of the ROTC building every Tuesday to pray for peace. One might argue that we have peace right now because we are not fighting a war. 
But that's just my opinion. I suppose we'll just have to humor these shiny, happy protes­tors for now. Speaking of PSA, a recent col­umn advocating "democratic socialism" deserves a mention for being the largest arti­cle with the least amount of relevance. 
As Dr. Ore so eloquently put it, "I see your lips moving, but you ain't saying a (expletive) thang." 
Of course the Women's Resource Center debacle has many students up in arms over this stifling of "different viewpoints." Why can't people make their point on abortion without handing out literature with prices and phone numbers of abortion clinics? And if Notre Dame students "can already get these things elsewhere" anyway, then why don't they? The WRC certainly serves impor­tant purposes (at least theoretically) but could do without such material. And for you pro-choicers out there, try the library if you're starved for "different viewpoints." 
But I won't get carried away with the same high-mindedness you're forced to read now and then. What we need to focus on are the real issues of the day, the things which affect us the most at Notre Dame. Things like the configuration of the sprinkler system. Having worked with a landscaper this past summer, I can attest to the fact that even someone like mystJlf can set sprinklers correctly (or find someone to do so). 
Why hasn't this problem been fixed'! Does Notre Dame own stock in the local water company? We have to walk in the grass to avoid getting wet. 
Then the grass need~ reseeding and of course, more watering-along with the side­walks again. And every year more sidewalks are built to -cover every single angle which a student might take to get from place to place: Soon the campus will be all concrete and will look like a "Mad Max" movie without the stel­lar acting. 
Our problems don't stop at lawn care. This wonderful University is located directly in the middle of radio wasteland, just outside of many Chicago station frequencies. For those of you who aren't big on country, you can either listen to 92.9 FM and endure Matchbox 20 and Dishwala on repeat, or turn to "The Bear" and listen to Bob and Tom laughing at their own jokes. The University can't do much about this problem, except maybe relocate. 
Hopefully we'll begin addressing real issues with a more "common sense" approach. Perhaps we have more pressing issues than sprinklers and radio stations, but they're not what the complainers have been ranting about lately. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tonrw's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Emmet Malloy  
Christine Kraly  Graphics  
Chris Lawler  Mark Higgins  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen O'Brien  Brian Kessler  
Viewpoint  Kerry Smith  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
Monica Garza  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the As!tociared Press. All reproduction rights are n:st:rved. 
laborative effort of the business school and the univer­sity. Only nine hours short of her degree, the university awarded her a bachelor degree in business administra­tion with a concentration in marketing. 
''I'm very pleased to be associated with a university that would do so much for a student," said Susan White, assistant dean in the graduate school of busi­ness. 
A special graduation ceremony was held in the Wilson's home in Houston on Sept. 3. Three UT officials -White, professor of business Linda Golden, and assis­tant professor of marketing Tomasz Lenartowicz -flew to Houston for the ceremony. 
She received the traditional UT graduation ceremony, 
• BOSTON UNIVERSiTY BU paper to pay damages in lawsuit 
BOSTON, Mass. 
A Suffolk County Superior Court jury Monday ordered 
The Daily Free Press to pay a former employee nearly 
$163,000, saying the paper was discriminatory when 
firing her in 1994. After deliberating for about six 
hours, jurors ruled that part of the reason office manag­
er Karen Miranda was fired was because she had cervi­
cal cancer. Miranda hugged her lawyer after hearing 
the verdict, saying, "Thank you for everything." 
Miranda was awarded $53,900 in wage compensation 
and $109,000 for emotional distress. If the jury finds the 
Free Press' actions "outrageous," it could punish the 
paper further by awarding Miranda more damages. The 
Free Press will not stop printing as a result of the judge­
ment, said editor Gene Johnson, a College of 
Communication senior. Depending on Miranda's final 
award, the Free Press may have to consider declaring 
bankruptcy. 

• UNJVEHSlTV Of VIRG!NlA Woman seeks university pro-bono work 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Paula Johnson, who is examining the possibility of a 
lawsuit against the university hospital in the highly publi­
cized baby-switch case confirmed by DNA results Sept. 1, 
is requesting pro-bono work from university law school 
students. The request, though, has sparked questions of 
conflict within the university administration. University law 
school officials posted the request for pro-bono work on 
the law school's web page, said Cynthia Johnson, Paula 
Johnson's attorney. "Every year they send out sheets for 
you to fill out" in regards to pro-bono work, she said. She 
declined further comment on the matter. Paula Johnson 
said in an interview that she feels the matter is serious and 
wants to bring public awareness to the situation. "There's 
no way the university can justify this," she said. "Nobody 
can take back the fact that I did not have my child for three 
years." She added any lawsuit she might file against the 
university would not be motivated by financial gain. 
• StH.HH BEND WEATHHi 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

At:<.:uWeather 1"1 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
Thursday -¢-58 39 Friday -¢-~.7 ;,;J6 Saturday 
Q:·~~ ~~· 
Sunday  /{!{J,  ~5 46  
.:c...>·  ·· .. ;···  

~QAc::::1uu ~ ~ u
',', ,", '' ,", ......:. +.;:=·.;::· -=--=--=­
Unfortunately, by the time of the opening game she was too sick to attend, said her mother, Beverly Wilson. 
Wilson was a diehard football fan and UT Head Coach Mack Brown called her on the morning of her gradua­tion. 
"She was the type of fan that if the team wasn't doing well, she never left," Mrs. Wilson said. "She was there yelling to the very end-she loved UT football." 
Friends and family described Wilson as a fighter with a vivacious personality. Ann-Therese McAdams, Wilson's best friend and roommate during her years at the university, said Wilson had incredible spirit. 
"She fought the sadness and smiled all the time," said McAdams, a social work senior. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN Students hope for safety of loved ones 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Many university students and faculty have turned their attention to weather updates as Hurricane Georges makes its way through the Caribbean this week. It has continued into the Gulf Coast of the United States, and students and faculty are wondering if the powerful storm will affect their friends and loved ones who may be in Georges's path. Elizabeth Kievit, a research fellow in the radiation-oncology division of the university's medical school, planned to marry Eric Dunkers, a post-doctorate fellow of internal medicine at the university, in Key West, Fla. this past Saturday. "No one really knows where they are or if they even actually got married," said Mary Davis, a radiology-oncology research assistant. Many of Kievit's relatives traveled from her native county of Holland in the Netherlands to Key West to attend the wedding, Davis said. The couple may be now enjoying their honeymoon in Jamaica, but "we haven't heard from them since before they left," Davis said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORN!A -BERKELEY Students protest military recruit policy 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

The U.S. military's effort to recruit Boalt Hall law stu­dents Monday was greeted with protest of the federal agency's discriminatory practices. Because of the "Don't ask, don't tell" policy regarding gays in the military, the 
U.S. military's legal branch-the Judge Advocate General Corps -is prohibited from hiring openly-gay lawyers. While picketing in front of the Hotel Durant, the protesters said the university should not allow an agency that prac­tices discrimination against gays and lesbians in recruiting and hiring to recruit on campus. Even though the law school supports a non-discrimination policy that does not allow firms or corporations that discriminate to recruit on campus. any federally-funded university is required by law to allow any government office to recruit on campus. "The government has basically blackmailed the university into allowing them to recruit here," said Marvin Dunson, a first-year Boalt Hall law student. 
• NATIONAL \iVEATHER The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 30. 

Aspen  65  36  Camden  80  
Atlanta  76  67  Detroit  76  
Baltimore  80  64  Hartford  78  
Boise  79  52  Helena  68  

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 78 63 Lincoln 76 
Via Associated Press Graph1csNet 
64  Malibu  72  59  
50  New York  78  63  
58  Seattle  72  52  
37  Spencer  85  69  
43  Topeka  79  50  


Wednesday, September 30, 199H page 3 
' 




omens ews 
WOMEN AND THE EFFECTS OF THE CLINTON SEX SCANDAL 
Affair leads households to examine family values 
By JENNIFER D'ANASTASIO 
New\ Writct 
SliP is onl' of tlw most powPrful wonwn in tlw Unitnd Statns. nx1~mplifying dig­nity, stn~ngth. and succ1•ss. SPPII by many as a rol!' modPI for womPn, llw f'irst lady of' thP UnitPd Stall's. llilary Clinton has IH'I'Il pla('(•d in a l'ompromising position. 
llPr position as a roll' ntodPI has quickly l'all1•11 into <jtiPslion sinc1• llw unravP!ing of' lwr husband's alTair with Wltil.nhorsn intPrn. Monica I.Pwinsky. Claims havn hn!'n madP against lwr "stand-by-your­man" staJH'I' as a lltn•at l.o wonwn's indn­pnndlmcn. 
ll1n· dauglttPr Chnls1m has also bnc~omn a focus of attPntion as shn walks sid!' by sid1• hf'l' mothnr and l'atlwr during this pnriod of' adwrsity. As slw conducts hnr­sdl' with dignity, h<'lping to stabiliw thP turmoil, sonH'. say Clwlsna complinwnls lwr panmts' succnssl'ul job of' mising her. 
II' this is tlw First Family, what dons this mPan for l'amiliPs in today's socinty'? 
Donald llorning, a Sodology, Anthropology and Social Work prol'nssor al Saint Mary's CoiiPgP, is tnaching a coursl' about marriagn and family. According to llorning, tl11•n• will bn no onP sing!" Pl'f'Pcl. on ll11• imag<' of' family as a rPstdt of' this scandal. 
"TI~t• pf'f'PI'IS arl' ,·onting!'nt on individ­ual family cir,·umstani'I'S and Jl!'rsonal family snipls." said llorning. "ThPrl' arl' many proha hl1• catPgoriPs of' consn­quPIH'I', l'onsidPring ,·ommon rirrum­stani'!'S." 
According to llorning, l'amilins that hopPd to hury a history of' adultPry may PXpPrif'IH'P a paini'LJI rPmindnr uprooting old nmotions. Those involvnd in a sim­ilar snxual ndationship may undnrgo anxic)ty, facing tlw !'oar of getting caught. 
For l'amili!'s with childrc~n ranging from young adults to small childrnn, the Clinton-l.<'winsky scandal could provide an opportunity for discussion of topics many JHli'Pnts t!'nd to lll'giPrt or arn rc~luctant to discuss. 
Haigwood: Clinton should bear blame for relationship 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY S.titll M.try's New' h!itor 
01' all tlw pnopll' who snrvnd as White llousP interns during the sumnwr of 191JS, nonP would Ill' abiP to say llwir expPrinnce had a gn~all'r impact. on tlwir lifP than tlwir f!'llow inten1. Monira Lewinsky. 
ll was during that sumnwr that Lnwinsky. l.lwn 22-years-old, dPwloppd a crush on prnsi­dPnt !!ill Clinton. llowevl'r, the rrush was not a lli'Pting thought and maiPrializPd into a rPia­1ionship with thP IPadl'r of the l'n~c· world on NovPmill'r IS, I<JI):J. On this l'al.!oJ'ul day. I.Pwinsky's lii'P rhangnd fori'VI'r wlwn. onr.1' aiiHIP with !.111• pn•sidPnt, sl11~ n•vPaiPd slw had a rrush on him. Tlwy IH•gan llwir sPxual rela­tionship lall'r thai day. 
As 1111' lurid dl'lails of l.l'winsky's and Clinton's affair haw bec~n mad1• public, soril'ly has bPgun 'to qtll'stion whose shouldPrs tlw n·sponsibility for tl11• n•lationship should n~st on. 
"ThP nwdia has hPPn quill' 11\I'ITiiPss with Miss Lewinsky as tlwy ll'lld to ill' with wo1nnn in th!'sn instancPs," said Laura llaigwood, I'IHlrdinator of llw Wonwn 's Stu dins program and associate profes­sor of' l·:nglish at Saint M:u·y's Co1l1'g1~. 
Working with wonwn who arn only slightly younger than !.!'Winsky has madl' llaigwood. question whnro rnsponsihility for llw n~lationship fins. 
"Siw I Lnwinskyl is vnry young and Clinton is so mur.h oldnr than lwr," llaigwood said. "Tiw structun~ of' thnir rPiationship .was that of Pmploynr and mnployPI'. I hold him rnsponsiblf~ lilr cmrouraging this n~lationship." 
Tlw origins of tlw backlash at Lnwinsky an) dPnply rootml in soci­Pty. "Bn1~ausn of' pn~-l'nminist tnncl!mdns, thnn~ snnms to be a doubk standard that blamns tlw woman in this situation mon~ scwemly 
sec MONICA I page 6 

Aceording to llorning, Clinton's justifications may rcdnfine sexual issues for many tcHlllS who engage in snxual activity, but still consider themsnlvns "tnchni­cal virgins." Clinton's original dnnial of' sexual relations seemingly af'lirmBd teenagers' views of such sexual activitins as only partial sexual activity. 
The issues of lying, trust and values that 
also come out of the scandal hnlp put 
parental lectures on these isstws into a 
context for children to absorb. 
"Families with small children ages night 
to 14 years old are probably tlw hardest 
hit because these small children may have 
a diflieulty sorting out the behavior, val­
ues, issues and feelings," said Horning. 
Parents are given the opportunity to 
seize the moral clement amidst the chaos 
by instilling family values in an open and 
honest manner. 
Horning also explained how families 
without children can still explore pnr­
spectives on fidelity, and what it means to 
violate that trust inherent to the success 
of marriage. Spouses are encouraged to 
examine their relationship and discuss 
what would happen if placed in a similar 
situation. 
According to nationally syndicated 
columnist Joyce Brothers. 30 pnrcent of 
women would walk out of the situation 
and pack up, but 70 percent would try to 
recapture the marriage and succeed. 
"It is possible to make a marriage on the 
ruins of something that is a terrible blow," 
Brothers said in a recent intervinw. 
The First Lady stands among thn major­
ity, helping to pavn the way for today's 
post-modern families sePking to redefine 
the image of the family. For hnr, is not a 
matter of choosing political over personal 
security; she chooses to hold together the foundation of her personal relationship by using her strength to support her husband. 
"Effects must be viewed through each family's particular set of prisms," 
see FAMILY/ page 6 
-~------­

---~~ 
---------------, 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 30, 1998 
pended for two weeks and was dangerous situations to a new school principal is well aware of 
then only allowed to return for teacher, though. the challenges violence provides 
half-days. "This [violence] is definitely to the school community. 
Haigh admits that she felt a bit something you need to experi­"We are not hiding from it 
ill-prepared when she witnessed ence in person," said Haigh. "No [violence]," said Kapsa. "We are 
her first classroom act of vio­one can make you understand." aware of the problems in the 
lence. One concern is that school vio­community and across the 
"There are some things that lence cannot be properly con­nation. We have attempted to 
someone can never fully make trolled unless the system itself use prevention and it does con­
you aware of," she said. "I do handles those delicate situations tinue to assist our needs. It is 
think there is a way to explain well. James Kapsa, a local high wrong to ignore these issues." 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~ 
lf 

The Diversity Program of The College ofBusiness Administration presents a lecture by 

Assistant to the President & Assistant Director for Cross Cultural Ministry 
on 

Diversity at Notre Dallle A Calllpus Ministry Perspective 
Date: Wednesday, September 30, 1998 Time: 4:00-5:00pm Place: COBA 161 
•Refreshments will be served 
Chandra johnson directs the African Spirituality Program, a cross cultural initiative for African-American students which she developed and implements on campus. 
Wa: .: .Street Forum 
Your opportunity to learn more about: 
•Investment Banking •Asset Management 
•Commercial Banking •Insurance 
•Careers for Business and Non-Business Majors 
Wednesday, October 7th, 1998 College of Business Administration 3:00-10:00 pm 
Open to all Students 
Dinner Tickets $5 On Sale: September 28th­October 2nd COBA 102 and O'Shaughnessy 
Advance Purchase Necessary 
For more information call: Professor john Affleck-Graves at 631-6370 
Violence 
continued from page 1 
child brought an air gun to school. The weapon was used to get attention rather than assault, but a study showed that if the gun had been loaded and been shot at point-blank range, it would have had the same impact as a 22-caliber gun. 
Haigh also remembers a time when a boy and girl who had been talking broke into a wrestling fight in the lunch room. As the two children were being separated, the boy hit the principal, who was trying to help. Police came and took the boy to the hospital; he was sus-


McCoy 
continued from page 1 
to the Christian idea of "The Golden Rule." McCoy sees the greatest challenge for man­agers in business the ability to change the covenants that exist in the business environ­ment. 
"If you are in a job where everything you do seems unethical, you're in the wrong job," McCoy said. "Everybody doesn't have to be an invest­ment banker or an attorney." 
He identified the solution as living the lifestyle of communi­ty building. According to McCoy, such people are those who are willing to listen, men­tor. and enter into trust rela­tionships. 
"Keep the Sadhu alive," said McCoy who challenged the audience to become communi­
ty builders and to partake in
the ethical practice of business in small teams, the corporate environment, and in church business practices. 
McCoy related his parable story to a community of trust. 
"A trust-based company is better to work with because it is more fun to work in due to the fun people it attracts. And it is also cheaper to run," he said. "But. we need sanctions as well. They are important. taking many forms." 
"We never do enough," said McCoy, when asked if one can ever do enough to help others, whether in business or every­day actions. "How much is enough? I can't tell you how much is enough. The real Christian answer is that it is not enough -you can never do enough. But you are going to trade off, socialize, and somehow get to work and move on. 


Mondays: Football • Sport Night 
• 
Playoffs • Dollar Night • Big Screen TV 

• 
Free Hot Dogs and Cigars • Post Game Party with the Jerry Springer Show 


Tuesdays: Penny Tuesdays 
Wednesdays: 
Fifty-cent Wednesdays 
and open mic sing 
along • Karaoke • 
Comedy • Bring your 
favorite COs on tapes 
• Showcase your tal­ent to your friends Thursdays: Dance Party and Dollar Night 
Fridays: Swing Dance • Pre­Game Party • The best in Big Band, Jazz, and Blues, Funk and R&B • College ID Discounts 
Saturdays: 

continues with 
~1.e~~~l.Y 
This is a time for campus to come together and show their inner child. The location for this is in Mod Quad between Knott and Siegfried. 
4:00-6:00 TUG OF 
WAR! I 
-

PINATAS! 
Contest and Prize Giveaways! Sand Volleyball Tournament (PE) Other Random outside field events 
Snacks, drinks and good times will be abundant! 
. 
L--~-""----------------... 

Wednesday. September 30. 1998 0JMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• ,, ·filD NEw~: ~RiH · 
Conflicting accounts in Kosovo 
I'IHSTIN/\, Yugoslavia 
Tlw Yugoslav army pullml out of a southnrn 1\osovo an•a on Ttwsday in an apparnnlmov<~ lo hark up gowrnnH'nl claims of' an nnd lo ils oiTPnsiw. Bul /\lbanians rPportnd rww, larw~­sraiP dPployrrwnls and l'rnsh l'ighling. Tlw pullbacks Wl'rl' in apparPnt r<~aclion to N/\TO's dl'l'ision to st1·p up plans !'or airstrik<'s al'll'r rPp<•aiPd warnings to Yugoslavia to slop ils onslaught in llw south­Prn 1\osovo provinn•. Tlw majority nthnir Albanian provirH'I' is part ol' S<~rbia. llw domi­nant Yugoslav n·publir. /\bout I:JO military VPhirl<•s W<'rl' Sl'l'l! passing through Caglavira. just south ol' l'rislina. l'rorn a point farllH•r lo lfH• SolltWI'Sl. 
Court to review student harassment case 
W\SIIIN<iTON 
Th<· Supr<'!!ll' Court said Tu<•sday il will d1·ridl' \\ h<·lh<·r Pduralors havP a IPgal rPsporrsibility lo slop studPnls !'rom Sl'xually harassing (IJPir ciaSS!lla[PS, an iSSUI' o!' l'nor­!llOUS importanr<' lo srlwols nationwidt~. Tlw justir<'s will dl'cid<· wlwllwr a (iPorgia school dislrirl can lw sul'd ovnr l<'aclwrs' alli•g<~d l'ailurP lo sll'p in al'l.1•r a l'il'lh-grad<•r r.om­plairwd that anotlwr studnnt was snxually harassing IH'r. 1\ l'l'dl'!'al appnals rourl said a I'PdPral anli-disrriminalion law dons not allow lawsuits involving stud<•nt-on-stuc!Pnt harass­nll'nt. although rhildn•n can suP ovnr surh misrondurl by a lParh<~r. Tlw girl says Llw boy. also a lif'lh-gradnr, rnpnatndly trind to tourh hl'r brnasts and otlwr body parts, rubbPd against lwr in a suggestiv<~ way, and mad!' vulgar comnwnls indil:ating lw wanlnd lo haY!' snx with lwr 
Israel helped U.N. team in Iraq 
.ll~HUS/\LI·:M 
A f'ornwr U.N. wnapons inspnr.tor sought and rPr<dwd lsr;wl's lwlp in tracking down Iraq's non-ronv<·ntional arms program. IH• was quotl'd as saying in an inlnrvinv pub­lish<~d today. Thl' f'ornwr inspPrlor, Scoll Hilll'r, was quotl'd as lnlling th1• llaarnlz daily that lw asknd lsnwl in IIJ1J4 to "l'ormulat<• analytical modl'ls, analytical tl'r.hniqu<~s and lo advisl' on operational issul's." Tlw papnr said Hilt<'r did not provid<• cktails on how lsranl lll'lpPd tlw U.N. Spncial Commission that supnrvisns llw arms inspni'.lors. Thn Washington l'osl, riling unidnntilkd sourr.<•.s. said lsra<•l tli~sr.riiH~d trurks and dq)()ts us1~d by Iraq in moving and hiding l'orbiddnn mat<•­rials. lsra<·l also told tlw inspnctors that 40 tons ol' a biological growth nwdium sold to Iraq by a llrilish r.ompany wnrn not an:ountPd 
• WASHINGTON 


/\SSOC!i\TE!l !'HESS 
W/\SIIINGTON 
l'aiPstinian leadnr Vasser /\raf'al accnptnd lsnwl's for­mula l'or turning over more land on the West Bank Tuesday and voi<:ed hopn lhal an agrmnnent could be coneludPd at a White llousn summit in mid-<ktobm· . 
"l'nace is a Palestinian rw<~d. Israeli rwed, /\rab rw1~d, international rwed," /\rafat said al'ler an hour­long meeting with l'rnsidenl Clinton. 
Tlw Palnstinian lnadnr assun~d Clinton that hn would try lo counter terror­ism against Israni. "I le will exnrt every possible niTort." Palestinian nngotia­lor Saeb Erekal said. 
Till' pullback would cover I:{ pnrrPnl oJ' lhl' West Bank. on lop oJ' llw 27 per­cent Israel promised narlier to hand over lo /\raf'at's Palt~slinian /\u lhority. 

It was proposed by the Clinton administration lasl winter to prod Israel to give up more of the West Bank. Arafal, who had claimed virtually all of the territory, agreed to settle for the 13 percent. 
Israel, meanwhile, pro­posed what its diplomats callnd "mlinemnnts." Thesn included Slltling aside 3 per­eent of' thn land for a nature prnservn. with Israel having a hand in maintaining seeu­rity over lhn undeveloped area. 
"We agreed to it to faeili­tatn the negotiations" f'or an overall Wnst Bank settle­mont, Ararat told rnportcrs i11 lhn White llouse drive­way af'tnr his mneting with Clinton. 
/\sked if an accord would bt~ signnd at thn summit Clinton plans to hold here in mid-October, the Palnstinian leader said, "Wn hope so." 
Clinton proposnd the sum­mit meeting and negotiating schedule during a three­way session with Araf'al and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday. The schedule will send Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to the Middle East next week. 
With the territorial issue basieally resolved, the focus of U.S. mediation has shift­ed to whether /\rafat can satisfy Netanyahu's demands to disrupt terrorist cells on Palestinian-held land, confiscate weapons from militant groups and have the Palestine Liberation Organization strike all anti-Israeli refer­enc<1S from its covenant. 
1\ White llousn official told reporters that the Palestinian leader had nwicwed with Clinton his spnnch Monday to the U.N. General /\ssembly in which Arafat called !'or an end to terrorism. 
But the ollicial declined to say whether they had reviewed any specific mea­sures. 
Clinton talked alone with Arafat for about 20 min­utes, and together with senior aides for 40 minutns, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said before the mooting that Israel's concern for sncurity was "justified" and that "the presidnnt is determined to snn an agreement arise." 
On the contnst11d West Bank, meanwhile, a car riggnd with explosives blew up Tuesday in an industrial area, killing an activist in tho llamas organization and wounding two othH sup­porters of the Islamic mili­tant group that claims responsibility for bloody attacks in lsraPI. Palestinian police said. 

!'or. llw Post said. 
S&l' 500: 

Composite 104'!.02 Volume: 
+O ..B 892,780,000 VIILUME LEADERS 
8,080.52 
I t)MI'A:'I!\  Ill ld II  " .. I II \:--.td  \I IIAM,!  p!W"I  
Pill t DMI'\II!It  IIIII  ·IU7  .tJ.2SOII  ll7.XI2S  
t Ul t,HOIII' 1.1\U) \Y\11 J\.1\ \\I ~11\>H t\1 \Y\ tdl!l Ill t II  11\l\\' (\1(1 l\11\.11,,  -27. 1/K -2.4." ·S-".:il1 ·-"'J.I  4.2.)00 -l.fl2Sn -K 12SII -2..\?SII  10.11.\7!\ lf4 h2:i II.~ .ll.t1H  
lilt INI llfll  II'  -I X7  .IIIIUHI  l..J.'t  
f\H I Wll!ti!JI.IIt-.1 I ll\ I UHI'  \\'(,(!~! ,:u:--.  t I.JX 11,71  O.hK7:'i .l.,<;j(IIJO  hO Sh2.~ 2.i.2S  
IN Ill t OIIP  IN It  + 1.72  + l}illOO  XX..'\  
tlli\~1 M;\NII,\1!,\N  tf\111  •IIIIX  +l) 4.\7,'\  451.110  


Former L.A. mayor Bradley dies 
AssociATED Pruo;ss 

LOS ANGELES 
He took ovN a dty divided. He left a eity dividnd. In the 20 years in between, Tom Bradley, the first and only black m~tyor of Los Angeles. felt tho warm glow or the Olympic name and the searing heat of riot fires. 
The tall, quiet Texas sharecrop­por's son and college track star who rose through the ranks of the L/\PD to become a city councilman and then a five-term mayor of Los Angeles died of' a heart attack Tuesday at age 80. 
Bradley never fully reeovered from a heart attack and stroke in ·J996. 
As mayor from 1973 to 1993, Bradley was credited with opening city government to minorities and women, expanding social services to the urban poor -and spurring eco­nomic growth. 
Under his administration, Los Angeles surpassed San Francisco as the West Coast's economic power in Pacific Rim trading, symbolized by the downtown skyline that grew during his administration. 
"He made us proud to be part of this city," said City Attorney James Hahn. "We were proud ofhim as our mayor-his dignity, his grace and his willingness to get things done. The 20 years he was mayor will probably be the years when Los Angeles really grew up and became a world·elass city." 
Bradley was first elected over Mayor Sam Yorty in a: bitter, racially tinged election conducted when the scars of the 1965 Watts riots were still fresh. 
The successful 1984 Olympie Games stood out as his crowning achievement. The economic ruin and traffic gridlock many feared never materialized. 
The low point was in 1992, when riots broke out after four white lAPD otlicors were acquitted in the beating of black motorist Rodney King. 
Bradley appealed for calm, but some said his angry denunciation of the verdicts may have provoked vio­lence. He would later descrlbo the violence that left 55 people dead as "the most painful experience of my life." 
A soft-spoken man, ho governed quietly, by building coalitions instead of using the bully pulpit. llis long hours and enorgy, even into his 70s. were legendary. 


page 6 The Observer • WOMEN'S NEWS ·'. 
Camp-out 

·,·.'I;:·.
Monica 
continued from page 1 HE ...
LPSTAMPOUT
continued from page 3 
Although Doyle declined to discuss the than the man," Haigwood said. "The absur­suggestions his committee is consider­
WOmen's rites.
ing, he said that they are talking with because Monica is so vulnerable." 
dity of this double standard is exposed 
students to gather ideas, and will meet Age contributed to Lewinsky's vulnerabil­
with the security and athletic depart­ity in the situation, Haigwood said, but the ments before making a recommenda­weight of the age, authority and power of tion to the CLC. the president make him the more account­
The administration is willing to work with the students to preserve the tradi­able of the two in this situation. 
"It's quite clear that the president is the tion and lind a compromise, according one most culpable," she said. "As the older to Kirk. and more experienced person in the rela­"I think most students like the idea of tionship, he is old enough to know how showing support for the team. That's a 
much this could affect a person's life. 
nice tradition," Kirk said. "[But] there "Clinton was much more aware of the 
were a whole lot of indicators over the consequences of the relationship." 
past few years that there was something Now a household name, synonymous 
we need to address." with scandal. a blue dress and a cigar, Kirk suggested the possibility of stu­Lewinsky will continue to have to deal with dent government becoming responsible the repercussions from her relationship for the camp-outs. which would allevi­with the president long after the country ate some security concerns. Because the camp-outs are currently unonicial.
puts the issue to rest. 
"Although Monica may have any number ther-e are no extra security measures for of personal failings, her opportunities to those nights. although security does learn from this experience and start new allocate an extra oflieer when one is 
relationships with men has been severely available. compromised," Haigwood said. "Twenty "If this is important to student govern­years from now she will still be a house­ment, maybe they will allocate some 
hold name and the media is at least as cul­resources to it," Kirk said. pable as the president for making her a 
The Hall Presidents' Council is also gathering ideas for revisions in the sys­household name. 
"This is really horribly humiliating for tem from students in the dorms. this woman. It's a kind of stripping away of her privacy and dignity." 
Many contend that Lewinsky was attract­ed to the president for the power that he had. Numerous incidents of extramarital affairs such as those of men who held pow­erful positions like former president John F. Kennedy and former senator Bob Packwood indicate that power can be. seen as an aphrodisiac. 
"Perhaps power can be a source of attraction in a society where women despair having power themselves." Haigwood said. 
" Am .

Haigwood contends there are lessons to -Morningstar ratings for ..• encas be learned from the power that may have 
the CREF Global Equities Account, 
Top Pension Fund."

drawn Lewinsky to Clinton and so many 
CREF Equity Index Account,
other women to afl'airs with powerful men. 
-Money Magazine, January 1998

"Maybe women wi!J learn to stop seeking and CREF Growth Account• power through association," Haigwood said. "This is a lesson for women who are attracted to someone in power that maybe they should think about whether they will really get what they want from the rela­tionship. Perhaps women should ·think twice and empower themselves instead." 
AAA 
Although she said she was equally sym­pathetic to Clinton for the humiliation this -S&P and Moody's has caused him. Haigwood said she rating for TIAA** deplores what he has done but that this demonstrates the kinds of insecurities rela­tive to power in choices Clinton has made. 
With the most powerful man in America having had a sexual relationship with an employee, does this cause a regression of · gender relations in the workplace? 
Joan Aldous, Kenan Professor of 
IDGH MARI(S FROM 
Sociology at Notre Dame and 1-Iaigwood do not believe so. "I am an optimist," Aldous said. "I think 
MORNINGSTAR, S&P, MOODY'S, 
this incident will put people in power much more on the spot in respect to inappropri­
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.
ate sexual relationships. It seems to me that this will make situations like this less 
acceptable to take place." 
Although it is traditionally thought that women can advance themselves by sleep­ing with powerful men, these incidents demonstrate otherwise, Aldous said. 
Haigwood is also optimistic. 

"I think this sends a message that this kind of thing can't go on any longer to the weaker and more vulnerable party," she said. "The exposure of this incident shows that a powerful man using a more vulnera­ble young woman in this way is no longer acceptable in society." 
Fantily 
continued from page 3 
Horning said. llcr strong commitment to her marriage in no way suggests regres­sion for women's rights in some people's eyes. _ 
"A woman who shows strength in adver­sity is not a weak woman," Horning said. 
The First Lady is showing spouses there is another response other than terminat­ing the relationship or separating from each other. A person may view attempting to understand what happened and explore the possibility or rebuilding tlw relation­ship as viable rnsponse to the situation. 
""'{""'{ Je take a lot of pride in gaining high marks 
V V from the major rating services. But the fact 
is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every 
day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF, 
ensuring the financial futures of the education and 
research community is something that goes beyond 
stars and numbers. 
We became the world's largest retirement orga­
nization' by offering people a wide range of sound 
investments, a commitment to superior service, and 


Ensuring the future for those who shape iC 
CREF St~., Account  CRU· Cilob.11l FAjuiri~ Account  CREF Equiry lndu Auounl  
<.,t,,rlt.11111):  
"lllllilo.'lllljlllllll"\11( J,jlllll  Suml"-n cot Jmnn~!l"nJII quu1  Sumi"'' olll•ml"'''" I •JIIIII  
Period  ·\•••Hllll'lt.rct!  '·••>LUll• k.,,,,.J  '••••um,ltun'  
-~ \'r.•r  4 '2.1~!1  -1 ... ,.,,  ~ 1.120  
:; rr,lr [~~-\~·Jr_ __  4. 1,,6,\ 4 r,·-J  ; ':.l=. ......:. ;\  s .\' \  


operating expenses that are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries:·· 
With TIAA-CREF. you 'II get the right choices­and the dedication-to help you achieve a lifetime of financial goals. The leading experts agree. So does Bill. 
Find out how TIAr\-CREF can help you build a comfortable, financially secure tomorrow. Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call us at I 800 842-2776. 
CRU· 8o1ul Mar"-ct Arcount -.rJr R.11u1~ · \1J1It.o!1:•..: "umt.,, •ot II. !11<~11• l<jllll' :-.:wul.._,,,,j).,.,,,·.!I,J·.···• \, ' I tllll" lt.~ (.1 '·•'•lloll>l\.,,,,1 \,,,,.,nt• !{,.,,' l ~-' :•! 
CR.Ef Grot11h Accuunl CRt.f Socl.~l Choice Acro1of 

,~. ... , I 
~ I 

Wednesday, September 30, 1998 . , , 
Regina Hall Council Election Results 

WINNERS 
President: Gina Case Vice-President: Tara Butz

100% Secretary: 
Melissa Wheeler Treasurer: Sarah Merrick 
A CONTINUING LECTURE SERIES: 
G\\'{ 

;;~'COVNS£l~~ 

PRESENTED BY 

Holy Cross Seminarians 
7pm -LOG CHAPEL 
SPONSORED BY CAMPliS MINISTRY AND TilE 
CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS 
The Observer.· ·CAMPUS, NEWS 
Lecture focuses on careers In JUStice 
By KATI MILLER everyone can incorporate News Writer peace and justice into their jobs, 
The Kroc Institute for Weigert outlined the best International Peace Studies practices for finding a job in sponsored a lecture Tuesday peace and justice. concerning careers in peace The most important objec­and justice organizations. tive for students is to decide 
Kathleen Weigert, a profes­what they want out of a sor of' American studies and career, so they can then find a 
associate director of the job which suits that purpose, Contor for Social Conc:erns, she said. discussed main principles of Weigert also said that net­earners in poace. working is a good way for stu­
"Wo are all called to be dents to get their names out peacemakers," Weigert said. into the job world, and accept­She emphasized that career ing internships gives students fields are inconsequential; invaluable experience. 
Unhcrsity of Notre Dame Intcrnvtional Study Program in 
t I 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1999 -00 Academic Year 
"Leaving Friends & Family ­Making Friends & Family" 
With Professor Paul McDowell 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 30, 1998 
7:00 P.M. . ROOM 117 DEBARTOLO 
Returning studNtls will be on band to answer IJUrstions 
page 7 
SMC frosh class elect officers 
0 bserver staff report 
In a run-off election held Monday, the freshman class at Saint Mary's College chose its president and vice presi­dP.nt. 
The ticket of pr1~sident Michelle Nagle and vice pres­ident Katie O'Comwll won the elr,ction with 52 percent of the vote, defeating the Callin Kuhen/Erin Weldon ticket. Kuhen and Woldon earned 46 percent of the vote. 
The election Monday saw 33 percent of the elass of 426 students voting ; two percnnt abstained. 
• CORRECTIONS 
•An 
article in yesterday's Observer incorrectly report· ed the name of the company owned by Mark Kramer as Domuf Properties. The cor­rect name is Domus Properties. 

•In 
another artide, Aaron Kt•eider was identified as president of the Progressive Student Alliance. Kreider is not the president or the group but serves on the non-discrimination clause and student board of repre­sentatives committee. 


The Observer regrets the errors. 
Recycle The Observer. 



TheND 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 os~ERVER ----------------Wednesday, September 30, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heotrher MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .......... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER .......... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS. . ....... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER ...................................Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cildla PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
']'he Observer IS the independent newspaper published by rhe srudcnu of rhe Univcrsiry of Nom: D:une du Lie and Saim Mary's College. It does not neceS!;arily rdlcct the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurardy and objectively ;15 possible. Unsigned editorials reprcsenr the opinion of rhc majority of the E'.ditor~in~Chief. Managing Ediwr, Assistanr Managing Editor omd dcparrment editors. Commencaries, letters and columns prcsem the vit."WS of rhe aurhors, and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all 
membt:n. of dte NO(re Dame/Saint Mary's communiry o1nd t<l all readers. "l"he ffcc expression of v;uying opinim1s 
through letters is encouraged. Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Chiet 631-4542 Business Office Managing Editor/Assisrant ME 631-4541 Advertising News/Photo 631-5.123 Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax Scene/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-5303 Ad E-Mail Office Manager/Generallnformarion 631-7471 News E-Mail 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Students' Behavior at Rally an Embarrassment 
This letter is to express my disappointment in my fellow peers here at the University of Notre Dame. This past Friday, I had the "privilege," if it can be called such, to attend the pep rally for the Purdue game. I have never really attended a pep rally before, even though I am a junior. I was looking forward to this because I was a cheerleader in high school, and thought I would relive old times. I was dead wrong. 
I took my room­mate's younger broth­ers and my best friend with me. In fact, my best friend was the reason we were going since she was in the finals to win ticket~ to \. I the USC game. We sat with her dorm which was located between the seats of Seigfried o and Knott halls. I knew from my high school days tl1atthere is always a rivalry in chanting, whether it be classes or in this case dorms. I am very ashamed by what I heard come from the mouths of the Seigfried men. Everyone was doing original chants, but S<~igfried resorted to maliciousness in taunting and name-calling towards Knott Hall. 
First came the chant of "Orange Faggots." This shocked me because I never thought that such a word could be uttered by a group. Sure, I have heard this word plenty of times and have even been called such on occasion, but at this university, saying that word out loud, at least to me, is like calling a group "Niggers." But that was not the end of the chanting. When P.E. decided to stick up for their brother dorm 
631-531.3 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 

by chanting, "We love Knott Hall," Seigfried chanted 
"You love gay men." I asked myself why were these the words of choice. 
None of the other dorms had resorted to such deroga­
tory names, and yet, someone had. Another shock is 
that no one said anything to stop them. I was embar­rassed that my room­mate's younger brothers had to be in the presence of such ignorance. We should represent the University of Notre Dame d u Lac at all times, and if we want to present our­selves as ignorant bigots, then we should proudly say things such as this on national television so that the rest of America knows what kinds of peo­ple attend this university. Now, I know that this is just a small part of the University that said these things, but still, no ontl tried to correct them. I know that I should have been one to try, but I have been abused too much already and knew that the word of a fellow peer would not stop a whole dorm. I hope in the future that the administration will stop such derogatory com­
ments and we can keep the pep rallies as the good 
clean fun that they should be. Thank you. 
Quincy Starnes 
Junior, St. Edward's Hall September 26, 1998 
want to suggest that Mr. Kerr meant 
offense or harm by this. Nor do I 
a moral high horse about it, I 
hat SWF seeking SWM" is standard 
talk in virtually any newspaper in 
and I'm s1.1re Mr. Kerr wasjust draw­
the familiarity of the phrase for the pur­pose of ll.is column. But Mr. Kerr was, after all, wtiting about a "Notre Dame Dating Express," and' using the first person plural, "we'' to refer to>'Notre Dame students." Even in writing a humor column, it seems worth remembering thaUhe scope of "we" is broader than "white people." Not everyone who would be using a (hypothetical) dating service would be white, and not every white woman would be seeking a white man under that description. Finding someone ''compatible with your lifestyle" does­n't have to have anything to do with their race. 
Tbismight sound like a priggish criticism of w~.at was in meant in good faith as a humor col­u,,mp, But the tone of a campus is set in part by thipgs like humorcolumns. That's why we have thenidt's also true that the tone of race rela­tioD.stm this campus has not always been the P!i!S.t it could be. Given both facts, it seems that 
· shov.ld try to banishthe 'W's (and the 'B's) 
our thinking about romantic relations. 
· seeking males, and vice versa, might 
tohandle.y 

• DnoNEssunv 
... E5PEC/AUYG/NC& THe PREGII?eNT5 BC&N UVIN6 
A UE FOR ONtY THJ?e&. Y&t!R~ NH&I<EA5 CHAIR­
MAN HYPE HAG 8I3EN 
£/VINe ONE FOR30/ 
~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• O.uon OF THE DAY 
'canada could have 
enjoyed: English gov­
ernment, French culture, 
and American know-how. 
Instead it ended up with: 
English know-how, French 
government, and American 
culture.' 
-John Robert Columbo 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------·-------------------­
---~ ~ 

VIEWPOINT 
O n-tE 

WcJncsJay. September 30, 1998 ---------------------BSERVER -----------------------------------------------page9 
• l11u AmiOWS 1r~ THE HAr~O Of -VVARRIOR 
Pondering Catholicism 
IIPrP. kind n•adPr (my otw and only I. ld us continup our gons against the mainstrnam. But that is not true. A Hadical is look at I'Ptnr 1\·laurin, <·o-l'oundnr ol' tlw Catholir Worker somnorw who is not contnnt with supnrlidalities, but who MownH•nt. desires to go down to the root of' the matter. Whether you 
We Catholics opposo a systnm or you uphold it, you arn a radical if you focus havn a bnttnr <'riti­on tlw roots of' the systnm (radix) and il' you are not willing to cism ol' bourgeois compromise. Hadicalisrn is not about bandanas and long hair; socinty than I tlw radicalism is dnar vision and an attitude of intransigence and 
Gabriel 
Marxist criticism I. intdloctual honnsty. There is no doubt in my mind that Petor 
Our criticism ol' Maurin did not care to look eounten:ultural. He was a bourgnois soeinty Catholic, radically so: there isn't anything more countercultur­is tlw rriticism of' al than that.
Martinez 
St. Thomas Morn. i\ Bourgnoisl is a fellow We Catholics Who tries to be somebody 
-----========:....____ 
havn a butter By trying to bn/ likn everybody, rotH'Pption ol' Communism than tlw concPption ol'l'roudhon. which makes him a nobody. Our I'OIH'<'PLion ol' ComnHmism is llw <~Otll:nption ol' St. A Communitarian/ is a fellow 
Thomas Aquinas in his doctrinn of' tlw "Common Good." who rnf'uses to bel what tlw other fellow is WP Catholics havn a bnltPr mPans than thn nwans proposPd and tries to be/ what he wants him to be. 
by Karl Marx. In tlw Middln Ages the law of the land was the Canon Law of Our lll<'ans to n•alizP thn "Common (iood" arn nmbodi('(l in the Church. and Petnr concluded that thn world worked better Catholi<~ i\rtion. that way. We live in a much difl'erent world today, and there is 
\Vp don't want to takn ovnr tlw control of' political and n<:o­no qu<lslion ol' dressing up in armor and living in castles. tHlmir Iii'<'. llow<w<w, we should think about their system, one built out of WP want to n•construct tlw social ord<'r through Catholic duty and rnsponsibility. respect and nobility. In spite of all the i\rtion <'X<'ITisnd in Catholir institutions. <~xploitation and the viohmce, it was a time when nobody 
Truth. lik<' h<•auty and goodtwss. is l(nmd in many pi<u:ns. arguml Cod's supremacy and good and evil were clear on peo­Non-Catholics and non-bnli<'VPrs also haw glimpsns of' Truth, ple's minds. tlw truth that is to lw l(nmd wholly in tlw Catholir faith. With Thnir systmn was not built out ol' greed. like savage capital­that id<'a. I'Ptnr st rovP to makP ol' Catholic social dortrinP a ism, or envy, likn socialism. "When class distinction/ is not gn•at syntiH•sis in thP tradition of' St. Thomas Aquinas. bas<llV on the sense of noblesse oblige, it becomes clothes dis­
Wlwn lw takns his long, hard look atllw capitalist systnm, tinction." Tlwir's was a system based on reciprocity, and lw n·m<•ml)('rs what Marx through all the abuses, had to say and finds sottH' of' r this core remained: it to bl' trtH•. ill' SPPS it aS Church Law was the trw• lwcaus<' lw is looking law of the land. And the l'rom tlw t.owPr ol' thP 1111111111111 fruits are plain to see: Thomistir dorlrinn ol'th<' ~Truth defended in uni­Comtnon (iood. whirh is versity and in battle­l'oundPd ott tlw llivirH• l.aw lield, goodness sung and is mad<· out of' rotH'<•rn every day at daybreak, l'or all. as individuals and as noon and nightfall and a ronnnunitv. TIH· Marxist. beauty with no other analysis is u~PI'ul wlwn it is purpose but to please sound. but tlw politirs it God and elevate man. advocat<'s and it's Vii'W ol' When the fruits of our human naturn an• wrong. commen:ialized era Tlw ( ;od ol' f'ratPrnitv dons . amidst not <'n<·ouragp l'ratri.cid<'. there will "ThP Catholic WorkPr a monument of l)('liPvns/ in rrnating a tww and stained glass. sorinty/ within th<~ slwll ol' and the people will look tlw oW with tlw philosophy up to it. And when they of tlH• IH'W," a philosophy they will put their now that conws down to us hope in its Cross once l'rom llw Srholastics. tlw more, as they did for a l'roplwts. and Llw DivitH' -;-t.._iV\dS <UCL thousand years. 
'-"0"\

MastPr's SC'rmon of Llw There is much more Mount. to say about Peter
,00~ e..V\........,.,\,...

Tlw Christians who con­Maurin, but you would sidPr rPiigion th<~ hopP of' do better if you read his
r
llw pnopln should not unitn own Easy Essays with tlw Marxists who con­(Franciscan Herald sidPr r<'ligion llw dopo ol' Press, 216 pp .. $5.56). till' Jli'OJlll'. For in talking about 
Tlw Marxists ami tlw Peter, I wanted, and ( :hamlwrs ol' Commorcn failed, to stress that car­agro<• in this, thatrt\ligion ing, and caring passion­ought to lw knpV out of the ately about the things of JHtbli<: schools. this world is in no way 
l'ntor dl'<:riml sm:ularism the enemy of caring lirst -living our lives as if' them was no God. That Church and about the things of Heaven. "Seek ye first the Kingdom of Statn ought to bo separate ti.n.. .Jesus would not divide family God." Christ is the old man who walks beside us. Christ is the l'ortunns) dons not, eould not mean that our publie life should unwed mother. Christ is the famished child. If we love the bn sih~nt about what is most important: our relationship with cross, we will love the destitute. And if we claim to love the (;od and fnllow man. What would be more convenient for the poor, it is our duty to love our Maker. nxploitors that to knnp roligion out of our public life'? These There was Peter. the only other one besides myself in the arn tlw s<wpmtts who make~ a living out of' li.Jstnring nnvy and chureh at that moment. and he did not see me come in, but sat raneor! Tlwy an~ llw thinves who go around distorting Truth! thm·e. before the Blessed Sacrament, motionless, quiet, Thny arn tho prostitutors of property who are rich by making absorbed. gazing altarward. Every now and then I saw his tho poor to bn poor! Tlwse kinds are enormously happy to live fore linger rise. count off' a few points. and then stillness again. without bning rmnindnd of the immorality of their livelihoods. "Isn't tlw task/ of proti~ssing Christians/ in this day and age ... Gabriel Martinez is a graduate student in the Department of to <~xprnss tlw spirituaV in thn matcriaV through the use/ of Hconomics. His column appears every other Wednesday. pun~ mnans'?" Shouldn't our laws be expressly inspired on the The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author thoughL'i of tlw Lngislator'? and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
l.ibnrals an~ so liberal about everything that they refuse to bn f'anaticaV about anything. i\nd not being abh~ to bn fanatical about anything, libnrals 
eannot bP libnrators. Tlwy c:an only bn libnrals. II' I am a radical. tlHm I am not a eonsnrvative. Conservativns 
try to bnlinvn that things an~ good enough to bo let alone. But things am not good nnough to bn let alone. Thn only way to go to tlw roots is to bring religion into ndu­
c~alion,into politics, into busin<~ss. BPrausn wo aim to do just that we like to be called radicals. i\ li~w wnt\ks ago somebody said something that made sense 
at lirsl. Thn vnry definition of radical, it was said. is Ollfl who 
• LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-life stance not logically necessary 
I am responding to Nathaniel 
Hannan's Sept. 24 editorial, "Logical 
Analysis Favors Pro-Life Argument." 
I was dismay(Jd at your usn of the 
word logical for your abortion analy­
sis. 
Contrary to the principles of logic. 
you started with a conclusion and 
worked backwards. Hather than 
allowing facts to drive and forge your 
argument, you relied on personal 
views and rationalizations. 
No one argues that killing an inno­cent human being is morally wrong. No one denies that a human being has a right to life, but before ascrib­ing this right to a fetus, you must show that it is a human being. While masquerading your personal views as a logically derived truth, you failed to adequately address the core issue of ·any intellig'ent abortion discussion, 
the definition of' a human being. 
You offer three weak and frequfmt­
ly disproved criteria for personhood: 
1. Human potential, 2. Genetic dis­tinctiveness and 3. The natural wiring of women. The first eriteria which entails giving personhood sta­tus to anything with human potential. would make masturbation, birth eon­trol and even menstruation immoral. Those little sperm and egg cells rep­resent potential human lil'e. The sec­ond criteria would make all lab scien­tists morally obligated to keep human cells in a test tube alive bocause tlw cells have a distinctive human genetic code. The last criteria I have never seen before and is just plain wt~ird. It supposes that just because a fetus grows inside a woman that the fetus has full personhood status. Flora nat­urally thrives in my gut but I don't feel any moral obligation to it. 
I offer two criteria for human life I have come across in my reading on the subject of abortion -sentience and viability. Sentience deals with an organism's sense of its environnumt. An example of basic sentience is an organism's ability to feel things such as pain and pleasure. Early in devel­opment a fetus has no nervous sys­tem making even this rudimentary sentience impossible. As the fetus progresses it approaches the level of sentience we associate with humans. Unfortunately this progress occurs subtly and across a spectrum making an exact cutoff point between a non­sentient fetus and fully sentient fetus with personhood status elusive. In search of a more concreto base in which a fetus' personhood status can be judged, the Supreme Court in Hoe 
V. Wadt} otl'ered the viability criteria. 
The Supreme Court recognized that it needed to give a cutoff point for when a fetus is a human being and set it at the point in which a fotus can survive outside of the womb. With the personhood status or a fetus being so inconclusive, I feel the Supreme Court used the only reasonable crite­ria fit for a legal ruling. 
What may be surprising to many readers is that I am personally against abortion. My position is how­ever based on roligious grounds, which I feel have no place in a philo­sophical or legal discussion. Facts and not faith is what drives me in writing this article and from the facts I conclude that the personhood of a fetus must be established before call­ing abortion lt~gally or morally wrong. 
Steve Gehrmann 
Junior, Kc~nan Hall 
September 26, 1998 
......... -~~-_... .·~·-·.A.~"'"-.....----....... 


------~,--------------~------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------­
page 10 -------------Wednesday, September 30, 1998 


Photo courtesy of Matador Records 

I
f you're thinking of buying Liz Phair's new album whitecho~,;olatcspaceegg because you're in the mood for some estrogen-inspired angst, think again. Phair's album has not one oun~,;e of it. Released after she became a mother. Phair instead explores the area of marriage and children with the same amount of candor that she used before with one night stands. 
Liz Phair used to be known for things a bit more racy than motherhood. Her child­hood, however, gave no indication of it. She was born on April 17, 1967 and adopt­ed into a well-to-do family in Winnetka, Ill. Her father was (and still is) an AIDS researcher and Chair of Infectious Diseases at Northwestern Medical Center and her mother was an Art Instructor at the Art Institute of Chicago. She attended New Trier High School, one of the best schools in the state of Illinois, and then decided to follow in her mother's footsteps by becoming an art major at Oberlin. After she graduated, though. she went through what she calls her "rebellious years." She smoked a lot of pot and lived o!'f the money she made from charcoal drawings. Eventually, music got the better of her, and she did Girleysound, a collection of songs recorded on a four-tra~,;k she had in her room. News of her frank, gutsy style of singing spread around the Chicago music s~,;ene, and she was signed to Matador Hecords. Exile in Guyville soon followed. (The title "Guyville" refers the male-domi­nated band scene in Wicker Park.) 
According to Rolling Stone, Guyville stormed "the exclusive indie boy-rock scene and laid the groundwork for confessional blockbusters like Alanis Morissette." Indeed. Liz Phair did much to establish women as power-rockers, at least in Chicago. Exile in Guyville has the unapologetic feel as a phone call the da"y after a wild party; she knows (and tells about) what she did, and she's proud of it, too. 
Liz Phair 
whitechocolatespaceegg 
Matador Records 
*** 1/2 (out of five) 
Without resorting to the cliches of rebellion or the victim, she writes about empty 
lust and men obsessed with control. Even her voice sounds like she's been through 
hell. 
On the tails of Exile in Guyville carne Whipsmart and fame. And then ....nothing. She completely dropped off the face of the earth for four years (read: she got mar­ried and had a baby). You could say that whitechocolatespaceegg is her first post­natal album. And it sounds like it, too. No gutteral confessions, or even anything rated PG-13. She softens her voice as well as her lyrics, as though not to wake the baby. whitechocolatespaceegg puts her in a compromising situation: she has resur­faced into the scene she helped to create with a sound which is now almost conven­tional. But "almost" is the key word. What saves her from fading into the back­ground of sentimental women songwriters is her lyrics. 
She was once known for her smart wordplay, and this album is no different. With songs such as "Perfect World" and "Uncle Alvarez," Phair shows yet again what a well-thought album is. And, I must admit, the album is exceptionally catchy. 
As Phair said herself in Details magazine, "Then lrny son] Nick was born, and I started having fun without money or drugs. I mean, who knew'?" That goes for her album as well. Who knew Liz Phair could make a smart record about, of all things, childrearing! 
Jennifer Johnson 
FatJoe 

Don Cartagena 
Atlantic Records 
**** (out of five) 

W
hile the hip-hop community embraced Fat Joe's first album and his noteworthy sophomore release quickly became an underground classic, he yearned for a position among the best lyrical MCs. Now, three years later, with his own record label, mainstream distributor and produc­tion crew, the rapper known as Joey Crack surfaces from the shadows of the under­ground rap world into the hip-hop spotlight with his best material to date, Don Cartagena. 
The improvement in Fat Joe's lyrical skill is clearly evident, but he has also improved professionally. He has realized that the utilization of guest appearances, a current trend dominating hip-hop and H&B music, has helped artists control both record charts and record sales. On his third album he surrounds himself with some of today's brightest hip-hop stars, such as Layzie and Krayzie Bone on "Good Times," New York rapper Noreaga on "Misery Needs Company," and Puff Daddy, who is featured on the album's first single, "Don Cartagena." The piano laced track, featuring Puffy's catchy hook, as well as his trademarked background vocals, is one of the strongest on the album. 
Another sure to be classic. "John Blaze," features Nas, Bad Boy Jadakiss, Wu­Tang veteran Raekwon, and new rapper Big Punisher. With a scorching beat that 

Photo courtesy of Atlantic Records 

never lets up, each takes a turn at the microphone, delivering vicious rhymes until Joe delivers the final blow. ''I'm hoU who wanna get burned?/ I'll fire a rhyme at your nod/ and watch your whole head turn." The radio-friendly "Bet Ya Man Can't," in which Fat Joe's protege Big Pun steals the show with his 20-second tirade, will make your head bob and your body bounce. However, other tracks like "The Hidden Hand" and "My World" waste Joey's lyrical excellence with mediocre beats that will leave the listener craving more. 
Although Joe has improved his lyrical flow, he fails to break new ground in telling the trite fantasies of cartels ("Terror Squadians"), mafioso lifestyles ("The Crack Attack"), and endless supplies of both money and women ("Walk on By"). However, while Don Cartagena fails to establish any kind of legendary status for the Bronx rapper, it does put him one step doser to becoming a true Don of the rap game. 
Chris Ramos 

...--.~-~~------~----------­
S IJ'
-~.;:'~::::.. .
·w:=iw={.' 


O THE 
Wednesday, September 30, 1998 page 11
BSERVER 
..... 
.. . .. I 
SPf:.I..K OF' THE OCV!L. 

Chris 

Photo courtesy of Repnse Records 
Chris Isaak 
Speak of the Devil 
l{cpt;se Records 
*** 1/2 (out of five) 

C
hris Isaak lirst hit it big in 1989, with his brnakthrough rm:ord 1/e.art Shaped World. featuring tho hit single "Wicknd Ganw." Since tlwn, has made a fairly lucrative car<~er singing vintage rock-n-roll tunes. reminiscent of such music greats as Hoy Orbison and Elvis Pmsley. With his warm, lilting voien, this sensuous crooner has made a place for himself among jazz and rockabilly's top per­formnrs. It is no surprise that most of his COs have continued thn same idea of lost love and heartbreak. rncurront in songs like "Wicked Game" and "Graduation Day," the hit single from his album Forever /Jlue. 
On his twwest ({eprise HtJcords mlease, Speak qf' I he !Jeuil. Isaak otTers more of the sanw old mournful lamentations, whiln carefully venturing into a frnshnr, modern rock-n-roll sound. Featuring tlw singln "l'lmtstJ," Sptmk of the Dtwil linds the artist in a deeidndly adventurous monel. Unfortunatnly his attmnpts at achieving the hard ndgn of rock-n-roll fall short, with Isaak never sounding quitn as assured as he should. On songs such as "Plmtse" and the title track "Speak of the Dnvil" hn sounds mortJ like a amateur, trying to do an impression of his favoritt~ rock star. than thn talentnd musieian that he is. Isaak continues this nxporimnntation with the use of unusual "instrunwnts." In fact, during recording Isaak asked the musicians to participate in what he calbl "expnrimnntal Friday" by bringing in any­thing that could be playnd, from PVC pipes to broken ampliliers. "On 'Please,"' Isaak reveals, "I used a phone machine message of an overseas call. On the title track there's the sound of an amp being kicked over." Many of these aural explorations are found throughout and in­between selections from tlw CD, including the sound of crickets bdore the !ina! song. At times the extra sounds are a welcome addition, while at other times they are a little distracting. 
Although tht) album has it's flaws, there is still plenty of good music. Isaak succt~eds as usual in his attempt at rockabilly; with songs like "This Time" and "''m Not Sleepy," where the funky guitar licks and upbeat rhythm gets you moving. The songs are performed in a similar style as some from previous albums, but with a little extra swing this time around. Where Isaak really excels, however, is in his classic low-key ballads, in which the languid strumming of his guitar are combined with his deep vocals in pnrl't~ct harmo­ny. Onn of my favorites was "Breaking Apart," a mournful lamentation about lonnliness that is pun~ Chris Isaak. Fans will enjoy classic ballads like this, but unfortunately, .'·;peak of the IJevil c~oesn'~ otTer another chart-topper likn "Wicked (1ame. 
Kelly Cooney 

Tune in for more from Scene Reviewer Kelly Cooney on Monday nights from midnight until 2 a.m. on WSND 88.9 P.M. 
The Ska-talites 
Foundation Ska 
1-Ieartheat l{ecords 
**** (out of five) 
T
u truly get tu tlw roots of tlw ska movtmwnt, orw must journey back to the narly (,Os, to .Jamaica, when~ ska was the sound of national freedom and unity. The piorwers of that sound, tlw Ska-taliWs. arP still going strong after :i4 years of nxistnnee, albnit with a fnw lirwup changes due to their now­advanced age. Tlwir rwwt)St rPieastJ, Foundation :-;ka. is a double disc set featuring rtH:onlings of tlwir prmninre stdnctions. It is chock-full of roal .Jamaican goodness, tlw way it's supposed to bn. Tlw Ska-talitns' lirwup has consisted over the years of tlw firwst soloists in tlw world of ska, perfet~tly harnwnized to put togethor dassie songs that dPI'inn thP genrt) itself'. All of tlwse soloists are rtlpn~stmtnd on Foundation Ska, from tlw rPgular lirwup to guest singers. Tlw Ska-talites thorn­snlws an) all instrunwntal rnusir.ians. so tlwy rPly on guest vocalists such as Bob MarlPy and Durt'('ll Schaf'f'er. 
llw soul of tlw group lies in the instunwntal solos that arn present in rwarly evnry song, and in the distinctivt~ ofT-lwat that makns any of tlwS() tracks perfect for a nwllow mood or a dance festival. Classic songs that tlw Ska-talitt)S have been per­forming sint:P 19114 an~ inrludPd on this album. such as "Eastern Standard Tinw," and Llw Bob Marlny rlassit: "Sirnnwr Down." 
It is rharar.tPristir of Llw Ska-talitns that no orw trark stand out above tlw others. as tlw PntirP stdnction is strong throughout. Tlw rncordings on this release arP quitP old, and this snmns lo bP tlw albums only drawback. Otlwr Ska-talites ol'f'er­ings on Island HPcords rnlnasns surh as Ball ol' FirP sound bettPr, bPrause ol' mod­nrn tnrhnology, hut this is only Pvidt~nt in tlw vocal trarks. 
iirr!iim 

Photo courtesy of Heartbeat Records 
This is a great disc to get a real feel for the traditional ska movement, as opposed to the third wave of ska that has recently washed over the US. For a true explo­ration of the roots of the happiest music in the world, filled with the spiril of the Caribbean. Foundation Ska is a comprehensive trip through a garden of Fire llot Ska. 
Tom Ogorzalek 

,,,:·.·);;"•···· 
Listen to more of Scene Bev~"awar ,.om Ogorzalek on ,.uesday nights from midnight to 2 a.m. DD WSND 88.9 FM. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 30, 1998 

Wells, Yankees blank Texas, take 1-0 series lead 
Associated Press first and second. Torre paid off handsomely. runs from <;onzalez. relay from Rusty Greer to 
Mariano Rivera pitched a Chad Curtis. whose defense Wells shut down the AL's shortstop Hoyce Clayton to 
NEW YOHK perfect ninth I'm a save as the earned him tho start in left top-hitting team, permitting Gold Glove catcher Ivan 
David Wells deliven~d a per­Yankees won one month to th<~ field ahead or fan favorites just one runner past first base Rodriguez nailed him. fect postseason start for the day they clinched a playoff Darryl Strawberry and Shane until the seventh. A one-out walk to Jorge New York Yankees. spot in August. Spencer, doubled to set up a llis lonn walk came to Mark Posada and a double by Curtis 
Playing their most important Todd Stottlemyre nearly two-run second inning. McLemore leading off the put the Yankees in position game in nearly six months, the matched Wells, allowing just With the crowd of 57,362 game and Texas did not get a again in the second, and Yankees looked every bit like six hits and striking out eight cheering, Scott Brosius hit an hit until Rusty Greer singled Brosius grounded an RBI sin­the winningest team in AL his­for a complete game in front of RBI single and then the off shortstop Derek Jeter's gle to right. tory. beating the Texas his father, Mel, New York's Yankees tricked Texas, with glove with onn out in the With runnm·s at the corners, Hangers 2-0 Tuesday night in pitching coach. Brosius get.ting caught in a fourth. Brosius took ofT for second as Game 1 of their division series. The Stottlemyre family affair rundown on a steal attempt Recently, Torre said the Knoblauch struck out. When 
Wells pitched eight strong surely created some anxious while Curtis sneaked home. team's most important games Rodriguez threw down, innings as the Yankees. who moments. The wives of both Andy Pettitte (16-11), who this season camo in the first Brosius stopped and got in a won their final seven games to Mel and Todd sat in the struggled down the stretch, week after a l-4 start. No sur­rundown while Curtis scored finish with 114 victories, Yankees' family section. and will start Game 2 Wednesday prise, it was Wells who beat without a throw. picked up exactly where they did not hesitate to cheer when night against Texas' Rick the Mariners in th11 opener of left off. a New York runner was Helling (20-7) in the best-of-5 that series. Notes: Stottlemyre, traded 
Wells. whose perfect game in thrown out at the plate in the series. The Yankees lost a chance to from St. Louis to Texas on July May highlighted New York's first inning. While the Yankees began the jump on Stottlemyre right at 31, is 2-5 lifetime in postsea­dream year. improved to 5-0 When Todd won at Yankee playoff's with the second-best the start. son play.... Mel and Todd in postseason action with the Stadium last month -his fifth record in baseball history, He hit Chuck Knoblauch in Stottlemyre have combined for Yankees. Baltimore, Cincinnati straight victory at the ballpark Texas' 88 victories were the the shoulder with his second 287 regular-season wins, the and Toronto. where he grew up as a kid -fewest among this year's post­pitch and one out later, Paul most by a father-son combo.... 
The left-bander gave up five his mother left her usual seat season teams. O'Neill doubled into the left­McLemore doubled in the hits and struck out nine. He to sit with the Rangers' wives. The Hangers' only previous field corner. eighth. ending his 0-for-21 kept Juan Gonzalez from hit­"I just wanted to be in this playoff experience came in But overly aggressive third­slump.... Hangers center field­ting a ball out of the infield section this time," Jean 1996, when they got knocked base coach Willie Randolph er Boberto Kelly made the play and escaped his only real jam Stottlemyre said. out in the l'irst round by New sent Knoblauch -even with of the night, reaching over the by fanning Mike Simms to end The only controversial move York despite leading in all four AL batting champion Bernie wall to rob Tino Martinez of a the seventh with runners on made by Yankees manager Joe games and getting five home Williams on deck -and the home run. 
• Bnxnw 

Nevada Boxing authority delays decision on Tyson 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 

Mike Tyson will have to wait a little longer to lind out if he will be allowed to return to the ring. 
Tyson was supposed to go before Nevada boxing authori­ties Saturday for a final deter­mination on his license. But the hearing was postponed Tuesday because of delays in getting reports on a battery of psychological tests performed on the former heavyweight champion. 
A date for the new hearing probably won't be determined until Thursday, said Marc Ratner, executive director of the Nevada Athletic Commission. 
"It's a matter of our doctors being able to read the reports and then getting all the com­missioners together at one time," Ratner said. ''I'll eventu­ally come up with a date." 
Tyson's doctors were to have the reports given to the com­mission by 5 p.m. Monday. But shortly after that time. the commission got a fax saying the reports were not completed and likely wouldn't be ready until Wednesday. 
Commissioner James Nave 

said that didn't give the com­mission enough time to go over the live days of tests performed on Tyson at Massachusetts General Hospital. The tests began Sept. 23. 
"We want enough time to do our homework," Nave said. 
The delay in the commission hearing could threaten plans by Tyson's advisers for the for­mer champion to fight a come­back bout before the end of the year. Though Tyson has been training lightly, it would proba­bly take more than two months to train pmperly for and pro­mote the light. 
Dr. Ronald Schouten, head of the team that examined Tyson, sent a letter to commission chairman Dr. Elias Ghanem, saying the reports would be completed Wednesday. 
"Unfortunately, due to the length of the evaluation process, the scoring on the psychological and neuropsy­chological testing have not been completed," Schouten wrote. 
Ghanem said he was disap­pointed the reports were not ready. The commission is to determine whether Tyson could regain the boxing license that was stripped from him for biting Evander Holyfield's ears. 
"I don't know what is going on, but it is very disappoint­ing," Ghanem said. 
Tyson adviser .Jeff Wald said he has not seen the results of the tests but believes they will clear Tyson to box again. 
"l assume if they found him unfit to box they would have told us," Wald said. 
Tyson underwent a six-hour hearing Sept. 19 before the commission. which was unhap­py with the limited scope of psychological testimony pre­sented on behalf of the former heavyweight champion and ordered that independent tests be conducted. 

Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. SOH Basement and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, includ­ 
ing all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
LOST· BEAR-SHAPED SILVER  Wanted.  Always buying and selling N D foot-I have 2 Stan GA's 4 sale  
PIN w/TUROUOISE. PLEASENOTICES CALL 273-9695.  Inter-Campus Programs 1-800-327-6013  ball tickets. 289-8048 Dan 634-0951 FOR SALE  
www.icpt.com  PERSONAL 
THE COPY SHOP Lost on 8/28.  PREPAID PHONE CARDS BUYING N.D. TICKETS """""""  
LaFortune Student Center  198 MIN. $20 ALL GAMES... 277-1659  
We're Open A Lot!!!  CALL 258-4805 FREE PHONECARD 1 per  

Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight LOST steel watch with blue crown. I need 1 GA for the Stanford Game FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS home.$25 activation.Send Fri: 7:30am -7:00 pm Blue and black face. Very senti-and 2 GA's for the Army Game!!!! Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with ALL GAMES 272-7233 ........... SASE:Brenda Horton,Dept.O,POB Sat: Noon -6:00 pm mental. $50 for return. X2254 Please call me at: 284-4371 and orthopedic mattress set and deluxe 83461, LA,CA 90083 Sun: Noon -Midnight ask for Amanda frame. New, never used,still in plas-HELP!! I need TWO tickets to the When you need copies, tic.$225 219-862-2082 STANFORD game. Call me (Amy) 
we're open! 
WANTED FOR RENT
I I I 
Early Spring Break ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 "TAKE 2" NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW Days $279!1ncludes most meals! 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 GILLIS PROPERTIES. Awesome SALES and ...EARN $$$$. 272-6551 
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Padre! Lowest prices!Free That Pretty Place, Bed and Air.Hotei,Meals &Parties Meals, Parties & Drinks. Breakfast Inn has space available $339!Panama City Room With ··umited Offer... 1800-426-for football/parent wknds. Kitchen,? Free Parties 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 5 Rooms with private baths $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $80-$115,Middlebury $149!1998 BBB Award I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" t-30 miles from campus. Toll Winner!springbreaktravel.com shirts for me and my dad. If you sell Road. Exit #107, 1-800-678-6386 them or have a few extra, please 1-800-418-9487. 
help me out. Call Michelle at 4­"OWN A BMW" 0562. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
at 243-0247. Going to Chile next semester! Take advantage of the only Notre 

TICKETS 
Dame-sponsored study abroad 

I 
Need 4 Stanford GAs seminars on social justice, I NEED GA TIXS x3501 Eric Maryknoll and ILADES! ALL HOME GAMES. Applications (due Oct. 14) available 272-6306 STANFORD 2GA'S 4 sale in esc. 
TICKETMART Inc BUY -SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
243-1626 leave offer 
Funny how we beat the Chicago I NEED STANFORD TIX!!!!! Tribune on a story-but we had to Friends coming for the game. take it back and they didn't. Hardly Looking for 2 tickets. fair, if you ask me. Call Brian at X 3546 

FOR SALE  Pretty Pretty Please-Need  I want a diet coke.  
FOOTBALL TICKETS  2 GA's for Stanford  
271-9412  Call Anne or Michelle  

Earn $$ While you learn ND/SMC EVENTS. 243-9371 I want my MTV. 247-0736 ADOPTION IS LOVE VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. WANTED 
Happily married NO Alumni cou-243-0658. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS Need Army G.A.s Camp Millhouse. a summer facility pie, with adopted 3 year old daugh-271-1526 -not in student section-I want a diet coke. for the mentally/physically chal-ter, wants to shower a new baby BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Call Stephanie @ 273-0893 lenged, runs a concession stand at with love.Artistic full-time mom,ath-info: NO Ftbl. tix NO games. We need 2 people to letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg BUY-SELL A lot. join 10 others at the stand with. Friends on the swingset.trips to 219-291-7153. 674-7645 Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU Saturday from 9am-6pm. (It's not the zoo, grandma, play groups,lulla-tickets.Piease call 908-722-7901. A + M • watch out! The list of too tough.) Army tickets (or $25 UP bies,too. This is a home where wish-Lg 2BR apt, 4 blks from NO. $475/ NO Football-Buy-Sell. quotes is going to get longer! Mall cert.) for the 2 who sign up. es come true. We'd like to call to get mo. 234-8017. Seasonal and Individual Game NEED 1 STANFORD TICKET Call Jon at 1-5521 (work#) for to know you.Call Shawn & Meg Tickets. GA-only PLEASE CALL x1613 Carmen -the only girl I know who more info or sign up. 800-767-Bed and breakfast Football 674-7645 hurts herself telling a story -I still 
............................

4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp. weekends two miles from stadium have bruises from Friday's beating . paid. 219-277=6832 NO Football Tickets Needed. Need One Stanford GA. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Call Brent x3637. 
........................... I love Acct. I want to be a "Crazy"

SPRINGBREAK BED & BREAKFAST.Football Gitano antique gold & brown glass-Cancun,Fiorida,Etc.Best weekends for ND parents. ND FOOTBALL TIX Mark Turner, CPA when I grow up. es found in grass outside of Hotels,Parties.Prices.Book Early Two nights minimum.10 mins. from FOR SALE O'Shag. Claim at Lost & Found in and Save!!Earn Money + Free campus.272-5640 AM 232-2378 1 Stanford G.A for sale 
Sean --you are a waste of space 

O'Shag. Trips!Campus Reps/Organizations -PM 288·2726 ·Dave x1902 
Wednesday, September 30, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 • ~N1lBHAlL fOOTBALL
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYOFFS 
PE, Lewis, PW post 
Assodat~d l'=s 
shutout victories 
HOUSTON 

The marquee matchup between Handy Johnson and Kevin Brown lived up to. expectntions -close, tense and !L lot of strikeouts. 
The kicker. though. was tht\t Brown did an a.wesonw imita­tion of Johnson, showing up thn Big Unit in tht'-Astrudonu~ as tho San Diog1l Padrns lilll~t thn llouston Astros 2··1 in thn. opening gamt) of' thoil' NL divl· sion series. 
Brown st1·uck out 16 and allowed just two hits in eight innings in a brilliant perfor· mance as the l)adres stole home-field !tdvantage in the best-of-5 series. 
Brown's strikeo\Jts were the most ever in division serios pluy und just one short of Bob Gibson's postsmtsnn-rm:ord 17 In tho 19Cl8 World Snrit1S. 
ThP rlght·handot said this was a blggcr gamn than t/Hl no-hitter he t)itched J'Ol' the Flot•ida Marlins in 1997. 
''I'll take this one any tim~~ 
MANAGEMENT CONSULTING OPPORTUNITIES 
MEET WITH ERNST & YOUNG ON CAMPU.S 
University of Notre Dame 
Interviews 10/7 Interviews 10/8 
St. Mary's College 
1nterviews 10/7 
By WES JACOBS 
Spons Writer 
In a night filled with shutouts, three women's interhall football teams posted wins and moved closer to a berth in the postsea­son. 
PE 22. McGlinn 0 
From the opening drive, this game belonged to the Pyros of Pasquerilla East llall. With Liz Plummer at quarterback, P.E. was able to stake out an early lead and coast to victory from there, upping their record to 3 and 0. Plummer eluded would­be tacklers throughout the game, and was able to convert passes at key times. 
"Since our first game, our oll'ense has really clicked," said 
P.E. linebacker Hobin l·lorning. "At this point, we're just looking to make the playoffs. Once we get there, every game matters, so we're just trying to preparn." 
The Pyros will next face off against Lewis HalL As for McGlinn. it wasn't a 
They're in touch, in tr~nsit .md in demand ... on-site, on­line and on-the..move ... improving businesses, envisioning future technologies ,md driving ch.mge ... thinking outside the box, designing solutions and 
dt>livering value to customers. 
They're Ernst & Young man.1gement consultants, and they're go~ng places-making a global impact in one of the most dynamic fields of the 90's and beyond. 
As an Ernst & Young management consultant, you'll help comp;mies from lortune 1,000 giants to Silicon Valley start-ups explore new stratPgies, methods, m;1rkets and tech­nologies -long before othPrs are even aware they exist. 
or equal import,mce, while you're learning and achieving, we'll put all the strength of our industry-leading org,miz,l!ion behind your own career development. With 13,000 consultants delivering ideas 
,md solutions from 89 offices worldwide, we provide an unparalleled world of resources and the opportunity to grow and learn with a proven leader in today's business. 
lor consideration, please forward your resume to your University Career Center, or: EY Careers, Dept. 10442, 113 Terrace Hall Avenue, Burlington, MA 01803; Fax Toll Free to Dept. 10442: 1-877-4EY-JOBS; or E-mail: dept.10442&>eycareers.com. Please be sure to indicate the department number on your cover letter and resume for routing purposes. Please visit our web site ,11: http://www.ey.com. 
No phone calb please. 

S!/ ERNST&YOUNG LLP 
Cnl$1 & Youn.~: LU', an equal opportunity 1?1!1/Jloya, wlt«?s the diwrsity of our umk fore<? allll til<? knou•ld~c of our {W/Jl<?. 
matter of lack of talent. Bather, they lacked execution. After falling behind so early in the game, McGlinn was unable to gPt any oflimse going. 
McGlinn captain Sandra Sanchez attributed some of it to bad luck. 
"Penalties killed us," added Sanchez. "But 1,rive all the credit to P.E. They have an excellent quarterback in Liz." 
Patti Sullivan was one bright spot on defense, making numer­ous key tackles. 
However, in spit1~ of the loss, McGlinn still has a legitimate chance at making the playoffs. With I'.W. looming next week, though, McGlinn will need to lind some luck and put some points on the scoreboard. 
Lewis 6, Farley 0 
In a game that nearly ended in a 0-0 stalemate, the Lnwis Chicks managed to pound the ball into Farley's end zone with under a minute left in their Monday night game. 
After Lewis gained possession with undnr three minutes left in the fourth quartfw, the offense chose to go with thn no-huddle style of play calling. 
Hunning back Katie Schlosser played the hnro, as she took the option down the sideline 20 yards for the winning score, upping Lewis' rncord to 2-1. 
"I don't think thn defense cxpectnd the no-huddle. It caught them a bit ofT guard," said Lewis captain and olffmsive linewoman Hosmnary Sage. 
"Hight now we'rn taking things onn gamn at a time," said Sage. 
With upcoming games against OfT Campus, McGlinn, and P.E. -a rematrh of last year's title ganw in the stadium -they'll need to do just that if they hope to advance to llw playolls. 
Liz Brown, captain fiu· Farley. feels that her tmun will need to win out if they are to have any hopes of advancing to llw play­oil's. 
"We've playPd our toughest games," said Brown. "Hight now we'rnjust not w~tting thn brnaks. Wn'rn not out of it ynt." 
Brown finished the gamn with three inten·nptions. 
Next wonk, Farley fae1~s win­less. Ofl' Campus, wlwn~ it hopes to bnmk into llw win column. 
PW 7,011'Campus0 
In thn third shutout of till' night, l'asquPrilla West ddi~atnd tlw OfT Campus CrimP 7-0, to improve to a l1~ague lwst 4-0 on llw smtson. 
l'.W. quartPrba1:k Liz McKillup sparked tlw ofTnnsP on the game's first drive, eonverting a 30-yard pass to senior wid1~ receiver Jen Gingrass for till' contest's only score. 
From thorn it was a defensiVI) battle in a game fillnd with numerous penaltins. Cornnrback Nicole I.opresto 1·.ame through in the dutch lin· l'.W. with an inter­ception late in the game to stall an on· Campus drive. 
"We're not clicking yet," said a frustrated Off Campus 1~aptain Jodi Lucnna. "Hight now it's a matter of us coming to the games and stepping up wlwn WI' get here." 
Christina llascall bl th1~ Crime with receptions, and Lisa Thode led the team in rushing. 
"Hight now we're lacking in fundanwntals. but \\'P havP good team unity and we work hard." said LucP!Hl. 
Tinw will tell if the Crinw's hard work will pay otr. 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 30, 1998 

Vaughn's seven RBis lead Red Sox to victory 
Admissions Office now open 8:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. on Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. 
e new world opened up one Saturday morning." 
"That's when we visited the campus of Holy Cross College -and my daughter decided she had to go there." 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

The last Boston Hed Sox first baseman to make such a splash in th!~ postseason did so by letting a ball roll through his legs. 
Mo Vaughn's only connec­tion with Bill Buckner is that they both play the same posi­tion. What separated the two Tuesday was something Boston fans have been waiting 12 tortuous years to see -a postseason win by the Hed Sox. 
Vaughn homered twice and tied a record with seven RBis as Boston halted a 13-game postseason losing streak that began with Buckner's infa­mous error. beating Cleveland 11-3 in their AL playoff open­er. 
Nomar Garciaparra hit a three-run homer and Pedro Martinez pitched seven innings as Boston ended a slide that began on Oct.25, 1986, when Mookie Wilson's grounder to first skipped past Buckner at Shea Stadium in the World Series. 
That forced a Game 7 the Red Sox lost, and Boston ­which hasn't won the Series since 1918 -was swept by Oakland in 1988 and '90, and then by Cleveland in 1995. 
Those failures had weighed heavily on the Red Sox and especially on Vaughn, who went 0-for-14 with seven strikeouts in his only previous playoff experience in '95. 
"It was nice to get off a lot of things," Vaughn said. "We did all right, man. We did a lot of things individually and as a team. It was nice to get it done today." 
This year's Heel Sox insist the past is just that. and they're not cursed by Babe Huth's ghost or any other demons. 
And with Boston's trio of stars doing most of the dam­age, the Red Sox made the Indians and 45,815 at Jacobs Field believers. 
"I didn't even know we had 
Boston 11 Cleveland 3 

one," Garciaparra said of the losing streak. "You're asking the wrong guy." 
Mike Stanley, in his second stint with the Hed Sox, knows there's no sense denying what happened. 
"Even though you weren't here, you know," Stanley said. "You're still cognizant of what the record is in postseason and what Mo's done. You ean't help but notice." 
Vaughn ended his streak of playoff failure in the first inning with a three-run homer off Jaret Wright, sending Cleveland on to its worst loss in 55 postseason games. 
Garciaparra's three-run homer made it 6-0 in the fifth. Vaughn connected for a two­run shot in the sixth off Doug Jones, becoming the first Boston player to hit two homers in a postseason game since Hico Petrocelli in the 1967 World Series. 
Vaughn added a two-run double in the eighth off Jim Poole to set a career-high for RBis and tie Edgar Martinez's record for RBis in a postsea­son game. 
"I just wanted an opportuni­ty to get here again," Vaughn said. 
Kenny Lofton hit a two-run homer and Jim Thome had a solo shot for the Indians, who with Wright taking the mound were hoping to recapture some of the magic that carried them to Game 7 of the World Series last year. 
Wright, however, couldn't get out of the fifth inning. The 22-year-old right-hander, who went 3-0 in the postseason in '97, was touched for six runs and seven' hits in 4 1-3 innings. 
Cleveland will try to salvage a home split in Game 2 on Wednesday. Dwight Gooden ­coincidentally the loser the last time the Red Sox won a postseason game -will start for the Indians against knuck­leballer Tim Wakefield. Game 3 in the best-of-5 series is scheduled for Friday in Boston. 
Losing a Game 1 is nothing new to the Indians, who have lost the opener in seven con­secutive postseason series. 
"It's discouraging, but then again it isn't," Thome said. "We lost the first game three times last year and came back to win. Tomorrow is big. We don't want to go to Boston down two." 
The Indians knew going in that Martinez would be tough. 
Good decision! No doubt it was aided by the fact that they could talk with someone from our Admissions Office. It's now open on all Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. So college-bound students and their families who are in town for a game can get the full scoop on what our college has to offer. Of course, you can talk with someone in the Admissions Office any weekday. And, if you can't visit us when you're in town for a game, you can learn more about us at the Holy Cross Hospitality Table in Joyce Center. We're a two-year, transfer-intent liberal arts college with a knack for nurturing young minds and giving wings to young dreams. Stop by. And let us open up a whole new world for your son or daughter. 
Down three runs after one the first live innings, allowing inning, their challenge went just two hits. from difficult to dire. The Indians pulled to 8-3 in 
Cleveland batted just .170 in the seventh on Thome's homer losing twice against the right­and had runners at second hander during the regular and third with one out. season, and although Martinez But Martinez got Sandy 
had struggled in September -Alomar to pop out and retired 1-3 with a 4.15 ERA in five Omar Vizquel on a liner to starts -he looked sharp for right. 
:tfJ BASKETBALL 

Attention Students: 
Purchase yourmen's basketball season tickets!! 

• On sale now-Sept. 30, Oct. 1 & 2 From 8-Spm 
• 
Gate 10 Twce Center 
Ticket Gttice­

• 
• 
Only $44 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7 42 7 
Website: http:/ /www.hcc-nd.edu E-Mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
Right for you, right from the start. 

Wednesday, September 30, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
too slowly," commented fresh­Yesterday was no different. couldn't string three or four "Basieally, we eame out man forward Shane Walton, After the goal, the Irish con­passes together and put the lackadaisical."
Soccer 
the leading goal-scorer on the tinued to dominate the game, ball in the goal. Both our fron­The men's soccer team will 
Irish. "We were always fight­hitting 17 shots to the
continued from page 20 ing from behind from then Broncos' eight in regulation. on." Led by eo-captain MattWestern Michigan, which 
Walton picked things up just Johnson, Wells, and Hyan Coxwont into tho game with a :{-3­f1ve minutes after the Western with five shots apiece in the
2 record. proved to be no 
Michigan goal, assisting David match, the Irish developedoxception. 
Wells on his second of' the sea­several quality scoringThn Broncos came out of' the chanees that went unrealized.
gate fast and early on a goal son. 
Walton dribbled up from "We thought we'd be able to
by Evan Fonger 20 minutes 
midfield to th!) right corner of' bounce right back [after get­into the ganw on assists from the box where a pass to Wells ting seored one]." said
midl'inlder Hyan Thompson 
was its only stopover on the Murphy. "We thought we'd put
and forward Scott LoW!). 
way to tho baek of the net. more goals in the net."
Fonger's shot from the top of 
With only an assist, it was Western Michigan goalkeep­
tho pnnalty box slipped past 
just the s~H~ond game in which er Erie Prague made sure thatgoalin C:rng Vnlho. 
Walton has been held scon~­Wells' goal was all the IrishVnlho, who nabbnd 12 saves less. would throw on the board,to tie his earner high Sunday It's been common for oppos­making 12 saves to ensure thei n t lw I -I ti n a g a i n s t St. 
ing defensns to have a man tie.
John's, picked up snvnn saves 
marked on Walton since his "We were upset with our
ill this OIW d!)Spitl) tlw !Htrly 
explosive beginning this sea­performanee," said midlinldnrgoal. 
son. Matt McNew. "We just"Wn canw out of thn gatos 
( 
··-.... 

The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit. It's so delicious, it just might turn you into a morning person. 
Our fresh-baked biscuit topped with s1zzling sausage, egg and mrlrPd ,-ht>Psr t;1srrc. so good, it':3 enough to make anybody happy in the morn1ng. Ifonly getting through the rest of the day was as easy. 
(AI part,c<paflnQ reslduranls Dunng breaktasl hollrs only.) 
The Huddle -Lafortune Studenl: Career 
BURGER 

KING It just tastes better. 
,
r ------------­
I
I The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit 
I tor just 99 cents I 
I Present coupon before ordering. Limit one per customer. Not to be used with other coupons or offers. Void where prohibited by 
I 
law. Cash value 1/100¢. State sales tax applicable. Good only at participating restaurants LaFortune Student Center Expires 10/8/08 . CCl1998 Burger King Corporation. 
I It just tastes better. rr..1~ I 
._. _____________ ~ ...1
I 
LaFortune Student Center 

trunners [Walton and Cox] got take to the road again this beaten up a bit." weekend with a trip to Walton insisted the problem Georgetown on Saturday to wasn't the defense, but the attempt to break the overtime 
exeeution. streak. 
.......................... The Observer/Brei Hogan 

Freshman phenom Shane Walton failed to score for the first time this season last night against Western Michigan. 
The First Annual Presidents Lecture Series presents 
PAULA NELSON 
Noted author and 
financial commentatot· 
Author of the best-sellin« 

~----------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN . 
~ 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 30, 1998 
• CCLLEGf. fUHB.MJ 

Penn State will have its hands full with Buckeyes 
t 
I I I 
i 
I I ·' I 
I 
I I 
AssouATED PRbS 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Penn State didn't stop Ohio State last year, and coach Joe Paterno doesn't expect his seventh-ranked Nittany Lions to stop the No. 1 Buckeyes this Saturday, either. 
"They're going to move the football. they're going to score points,'· Paterno said Tuesday. "The only thing we can do is try to make sure the points they score are not easy ones and that we don't make mistakes when we have the football." 
Penn State's defense gavP up 565 yards to Ohio State last year, but got 307 yards and three touchdowns from Curtis En is and Aaron II arris in a 31-27 victory. 
Trouble is, Ohio State is on the schedule again -but nei­ther of those rushers is on Penn State's depth chart. 
Enis, who ran for 211 yards and a 26-yard TO with four minutes left. is with the Chicago Bears. 
Harris. who added a crucial 51-yard touchdown with tack­lers bouncing off his pads in the 1997 game, hasn't been quite the same since tearing a knee ligament a week after his great run. 
Their replacement, Corddl Mitchell, is more of a speed­ster than a durable power back, and he hasn't been test­ed against a defense as solid as the Buckeyes'. 
And that's just the start of Penn State's offensive wor­ries. 
Paterno is still using two quarterbacks, though the sys­tem is showing signs of strain. Neither starter Kevin Thompson nor baekup Hashard Casey played particu­larly well in a 20-13 win over Pittsburgh as the wideouts dropped ball after ball. 
This week, Casey said he's having trouble in the platoon system and he's disappointr,d with his playing time. 
Penn State hoped to have those questions answerr.d before meeting a defense that ineludes Butkus Award win­ner Andy KatzPnmoyer and senior defensive backs Damon Moore and Antoine Winfield. 
So with his team struggling to l'ind some continuity a few 

days before a game against around 5, 5:30, have dinner, yards. All three players are one of the country's best have a snack, go to bed. get back. defenses, might Patnrno gam­up in the morning and play Penn State's offense might ble more offensively? Maybe a the football game. Find out need the defense to makn trick play or new wrinkle or whether we're good enough." Saturday's gamn a low-scOI·­two'? Last year, top-ranked Penn ing affair. 
"Yeah, if it works. Got any State didn't need gimmicks. But Paterno would consider 
ideas'!" he joked. "We're not Enis and Harris bailed out that quite a feat: He has told gonna do anything different the defense, which gave up his players that the 1998 than we've done. We're just 153 yards to David Boston and Buckeyes arc one of the best 
going out, leave here Friday 149 to Dee Miller. Joe teams Penn State has played afternoon. get out there Germaine had 378 passing in the last half-century. 
.
Amencan Heart v,__ AssociationsM 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 

lt~s, the giftof ·a lifetime. 
Abequest to the American Heart 

Association says something  
·.  special about the giver. It's an  
expression ofhope, agift of  
health given to generations to  
come. It's an unselfish act that  
..  shows you care about others  
and want to leave the world  
better than you found it. Your  
gift will be used to fund  
\  research and educational  
~­ programs to fight heart attack, stroke, high  

blOOd pressure and other heart and blood vessel diseases. To find new ways to stop the sadness, suffering and death -and give others the freedom ofgood health. To learn more about how you can leave a legacy for the future, call 1-800-AHA-USA1. Do it today. 
This space provided as a public service. ©1992, 1997, American Heart Association 
r 
I 
I ' i 
I 
I 
Wednesday, Sepeember 30, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MA,lOH LEAGUE BASf:HAll PLAYOHS 
Smoltz to pitch in Braves and Cubs series opener 
Associa1ed Press aching, his future uncertain same Cubs team in Game 1 of' "This is the best season I've The pitcher who once tried to after lasting only two innings the best-of-5 NL division ever had," said Smoltz, who blow every hitter away now ATLANTA against the Chicago Cubs. series. His elbow feels rejuve­led the majors in winning per­throws 25 to 30 change-ups a 
Four months ago, John On Wednesday. Smoltz will nated. centage (17-3). "This far and game. Smoltz trudged off thn mound be on that same mound for the llis doubts have thoroughly away blows away my Cy Young "I have more and more con­at Turner Field. his elbow Atlanta Braves. facing that vanished. year (1996)." fidence with my change-up 
Smoltz, who will face each game," he said. "I think 
Chicago's Mark Clark (9-14) in it's a weapon now rather than 
the opening game, underwent a show pitch." 
elbow surgery in December The Cubs, who had to beat 
and started the season on the San Francisco S-3 in a one­
The Boston Consulting Group 
disabled list. game playoff' Monday night to He made it through seven earn the wild card, finally
Invites all interested students to attend a presentation by 
starts before going against arrived in Atlanta just before 6 Kerry Wood the Cubs on May p.m. Tuesday. 
23. Sammy Sosa, ebullient 
In two innings, Smoltz sur­throughout his home run race rendered six hits and two runs. with Mark McGwire, was
Greg Zeeman 
He knew before he got to the sullen as he walked into a 
dugout that he would have to downtown hotel with his team­
go back on the DL. mates, declining to speak with
Case Leader, Chicago 
"It was such a struggln men­reporters. 
tally that I started thinking "Everybody had quite a bit of' 
about whether I wanted to adrenaline going after last 
continue this, how many years night's game," Clark said.
Speaking on 
I wanted to play," Smoltz said. "When we were on the plane ''I've never had those doubts today, I nolieed quite a few
"Strategy Consulting and the Associate" 
before." guys looked tired and some 
When Smoltz returned from wern sleeping. But with a day the DL, he abandoned his split­off and a late-afternoon game finger fastball becausn of the tomorrow, I'm sure everybody pressure it puts on the elbow. will be rested."
University Club, Main Lounge Thursday, October 1, 1998 
6:30 p.tn. 
Reception to follow Casual Attire 
If you are unable to attend the presentation, please visit Career and Placement Services for more information about career opportunities with BCG. 
Amsterdam • Atlanta • Auckland • Bangkok • Boston • Brussels • Budapest • Buenos Aires • Chicago • Copenhagen • Dallas • Dusseluorf • Frankfurt • llamburg • Helsinki • Hong Kong • jakarta • Kuala Lumpur • 
Study Group

Lisbon • London • l.os Angeles • Madrid • Melbourne • Mexico City • Milan • Monterrey • Moscow • Mumbi • Munich • New York • Oslo • Paris • San Fransisco • Sao Paulo • Seoul • Shanghai • Singapore • Stockholm • Stuttgart • Sydney • Tokyo • Toronto • Vienna • Warsaw • Washington • Zurich 
Hosted by

~~ 
Prof. Charles Rice 

Look Out For 
Wednesday, September 30 9:00p.m. CSC Coffee House
Junior Week A discussion of the Pope's encyclical, "the I I IGospel of Life" 
Oct. 4-10 
Interested? Pick up a copy in the Right to Life Office, 314 LaFortune 


Class Mass 
I
7pm@ Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
' 
I 
Wed., Oct. 7 7:30p.m. 
Thurs., Oct. 8 7:30p.m.

Class Dinner @ BW-3s 
Fri., Oct. 9 

I
All you can eat wings $2.00 
-
7:30p.m. 

5:30-7:00pm 
Sat., Oct. 10 7:30p.m. 
Sun., Oct. 11 2:30p.m.

Class Movie@ Movies 14 
Playing at 


Washington

"A Night at the Roxbury" 
nessee Hall

Time TBA, $3.00 
Reserved Seats $9

llllams 
Seniors $8

(Movie subject to change) 
All Students $6

-~­
Tickets are available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office MasterCard and VIsa orders call631·8128
Brought to you by the Class of2000 Council 
.. 

Wednesday, September 30, 1998

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
, .

• Lf:Fl •r!OJ) 

Near-perfect baseball Golfers slip a spot in tourney 
Special to The Observer 1,003. Michigan used a final­six-player contingent. 
season draws to close 
round 327 to edge tho Irish by a Michigan State and Indiana 

By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sports Columnist 
Looking at the world in sports from an obstructed view way out in left field: 
The regular season has come to a close for the most exciting major league baseball season in recent memory. 
Mark McGwire hit 70 home runs, Sammy Sosa hit 66 and the Yankees won more games than any other team in American League history. 
The question is N what does all that mean now? 
McGwire's team was elimi­nated from the playoffs before Mother's Day and Sosa's team is waiting to be swept by the Atlanta Braves. 
And the Yankees? Anything short of a World Series virtorv qualifies this season as a tot<il failure and puts manager Joe Torre's job in jeopardy. 
But Torre doesn't have any­thing to worry about. 
After the Red Sox defeat the Indians and the Yankees knock out the Hangers, the Yankees will beat the Red Sox in six games. 
Meanwhile, the Padres will 

defeat the Astros and the 
Braves will win out over the 
Cubs, allowing San Diego to 
defeat Atlanta. 
The Padres and Yankees will 

face off in a World Series 
which will be so exciting that 
it will be the perfect ending to 
a nearly perfect season. 
The Yankees will win; how­

ever, not because the AL is 
better than the NL (which it 
is) or because they have more 
experience, more talent, and a 
deeper everything except 
bullpen than the Padres 
(which they dol, but because 
they are the Yankees, and 
that's enough. 

-
-

MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER 
Cordially invites students of all majors to attend a presentation on the 
Investment Banking Financial Analyst Program 
' 
I ­
I 
Thursday, October 1st 7:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education (lower level) 
Interviews: November 9th 
www.ms.com 

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter is a service mark of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 
What is going on in the NFL'? 
Tampa Bay, supposedly tlw league's up-and-coming team. is l-3. 
The Saints. who supposedly were the last team Prairie View beat before winning this past weekend to snap an 80­game losing streak, arc 3-0. 
Mike Ditka should receive a medal for the work he has done with the Saints. 
The same could be said for Don Baylor, who was fired yesterday as manager of the Colorado Hockies. 
Casey Stengel couldn't man­age a team that plays half its 
games in  a  ballpark where  
routine fly  balls  are  home  
runs.  

If rumors are true that Mike Piazza is going to sign with the Hockies, then McGwire's home run record may last 36 seasons less than Hoger Maris' did. 
In closing: the Bucs need to be more like the Yankees, the curses on the Bed Sox and Cubs will continue, and Don Baylor will be missed. 
Saint Mary's College presents John Dryden's play 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
284-4626 

The Notre Dame women's golf team slipped one spot in Sunday's limtl-round action of the Lady Northern Intercollegiate, as the University 
of Michigan edged the Irish by one stroke over tht~ 54-hole tournament at the chal­lenging par­72 Kampen 

Golf Course. Klee 
Senior cap­tain Andrea Klee rallied with a final-round 79 to post a team­best total of 246, tying for 27th in the 88-player field after firing Saturday rounds of 83 and 84. 
SophomoJ·e Mary Klein entered the final day with a share of ninth place. after rounds of 79 and 81, but stum­bled ()n the last day with a 91 to finish in a tie for 42nd at 251. 
Notre Dame failed to improve on its 1Oth-place position after Saturday's two rounds (337­332), totaling a 335 in the final play-six I count-four round to finish 11th out of 14 toams at 
Thursday-Saturday October 8 -10 at 8 p.m. Sunday, October 11 at 2:30p.m. Little Theatre 
'"8WiiJ
I 

C!THEARTS 
~NOTRE DAME, IN 
stroke. 
Other Notre Dame third­round scores included 87s from newcomers Shane Smith, a sophomore transfer from SMU. and freshman Kristin McMurtrie, with both players !inishing tied for 55th with 258 totals, heading into the final round. Junior Brigid Fisher and sophomore Becca Schloss rounded out the Notre Dame rallied to finish in the top two spots, with the Spartans using a linal-round 306 for a 947 total. Indiana, tho nation's #6-ranked team, turned in a 308 in the final round but finished four shots behind MSU at 951. 
The Irish next are in action at the 14-team Wolverine Invitational, to bn held Oct. 3-4 at the par-73 University of Michigan Golf Course 

Wednesday, September 30, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD NO DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

George Harrison. legendary tenor
BILL AMEND 
Enrico Caruso, basketball player Kun Rambis. 
I'LL BET ANY FouR-PANEL 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): A give-and-take attitude will strength­
CARTOONISTS REALIZING­

en a key alliance. Forge new linb to
THIS MuST BE BEAT1111<:1 

people who share your concerns. 
THEIR HEADS oN Tl-iEIR Tonight's forecast shows clear sail­ing for romance. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A 
DESkS RI&HT ABouT NoW. 

new acquaintance could he hiding something. It is hctter not to be too open ahout your assets. Intellectual 
I 
J) 

pursuits arc favored over purely physical feats. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep all career and husinc.s negnti· ations strictly aboveboard. You :ould fall in love suddenly. Trust your instincts: they arc right on tar­get. 
CANCER (.ijme 21-July 22J: Be careful not to 'll)ake a nuisance of SCOTT ADAMS 
yourself while trying to win the object of your desire. A teen-ager looks to you as a role model Do 
COULD YOU AT LEA&T your best to set a good example. LEO <July 23-Aug. 22): Some­
SA'( SOMETHING THAT 
one offer.. you a unique oppm1unity 
SOUNDS 

I'M GLAD 
I'M. ME! 

HAI'I'Y IIIRTHOAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your desire to help others will get a good workout. Do what you can without jeopardizing your own secu­rity. A plan made late in 1997 can be implemented this coming June. Johs open up in hoth the health licld and the entenainment industry. Financial progress is slow hut steady. Be patient. You and your loved one will eventually have what you want mosl. A round of dazzling social events will make Decemher espe­cially fun. Get hack to work after the holidays. 
CELEURITIES UORN ON THIS DAY: talk show host Sally Jcssy Raphael, former Beatie to demonstrate your lcade"hip skills. Step up to the plate and hit a home run! A hank loan "ill he approved or extended. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 21): Your thrifty ways give you an ad­vantage now. Usc your writmg tal­ents to earn cxlm income. Gelling involved in a dispute hctwccn two longtime friends would he a mis­take. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): High­er-ups are assessing your work. Careful management of your time could win you a promotion. Your anility to perform under pressure is an asset. 
SCORPIO (Ot:t. 23-Nov. 21 ): An innovative group project will plant the seeds for new community spirit. Although moving to another city is tempting, you could gain more hy staying put. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A house guest could overstay his welcome. End the visit as po­litely as you can. A tense di;cussion with a colleague could turn out tine if you remain calm. 
CAI'RICOI~N (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Minor delays arc likely while traveling to or from work. Refuse to let a co-worker take advantage of you again. You need to take a stand when you know that ym1 arc in the nght. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 1St: A good day to huy clothes to wear to your job. An ultimatum may suc­ceed ir you phrase it carcfull). Gi\c the other person a way IO sa\'C face 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201. You may have to end your relation­ship with someone who drains you emotionally. An older indi\'idual i' ready to help you rcalilc a dream Make phone calls to key people late in the day. 


.._I 
.. 
... 
r 
FOXTROT 
SuSPECT ANoniER 'THING 'Tl-IAT'S REALLY HELPED "DILBEIH'' SUCCEED CoMMER· CtALLY IS ITS lliREE· 
PANEL FoRMAT. \ 
~l\,/
s
~ 
-DILBERT 
TI-H 5 15 URGENT. 
I NE.EO IT BY TOMORROW. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Made fun of a Comic Martin 11 Object of invective, often 14 Concert venue 15 Site of Western Michigan University 171959 Philip Roth book 19 Part of the Holy Trinity 20 First name on Capitol Hill 21 Cold war side, with "the" 22 Seats with cushions 23 1932 and 1981 "Tarzan" films. e.g. 26 Inevitably 29 Dove rival 
30 Coin no longer 
minted 31 Gen. Powell 32 Charge 35 Hemingway 
novelof1929 
39 Abbr. for 20-Across, in two ways 
40 Watergate co-conspirator 
41 Nonsense word repeated in a 1961 hit 
42 Chemistry measurements 43 1902 Physics 
Nobelist Pieter 45 Loudly laments 48 Add color to 49 Seat 50 The "pneuma" 
in pneumonia 51 Untapped 541958 Mario 
Lanza song 59 Popular motor 

home 60 Writer Shute 61 Article in France 
Soir 62 Give &3 Ennoble 
DOWN 
t Certain sports 
cars, informally 2 Suffix with buck 3 Drudge 4 Get rid of 5 Actor Coleman a Biases 7 Mediator's skill a "Hold On Tight" 
rock band 9 Kilmer of "The 
Saint" 10 Aussie bird tt Language 
spoken in Tashkent 12 Cursor mover 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
31 Turns over 46 Chill-inducing 52 Disney's "-­32 Gift tag word 47 Alerts and the 33 Austen heroine 
48 "Presumed Detectives" 34 Cable staple Innocent" 53 Cartoonist Kelly 
editors.
author

36 "The Time 55 Churchill symbol 
50 Lincoln Log 

Machine" race 56 Surveyor's dir. 
competitor

37 Something left 57 Pop
51 Astronomer's 

Join The Observer
behind sighting 58 Latin ruler 

38 Help 42 Cheech of Cheech and 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
staff.
Chong are available by touch-tone phone: 

43 Vitamin additive 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 44 Head of a train Annual subscriptions are available for the 45 More than a best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
scuffle 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Puts up, as a computer message :=:i-':'-17ir.:-t 16 Home products company .:o.&.-...,;,j.=+!...fl..,llllloii-.~~~-::+++:-t:::-1 18 Evergreens 22Jack of 50's-60's TV 23 Come-from­behind attempt 24 Send out R~-7-+=+~ 25 Jorge's hand 2&Winglike 27 Never-ending sentence? 28 Scarf B&FB 29 Causes of some absences 
BIG WEEKEND FOR 
IRISH ATHLETICS 
WOMEN'S SOCCER Friday Oct. 2nd 7:30pm vs. Butler Sunday Oct. 4th 1:OOpm vs. Georgetown 

WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL Friday Oct. 2nd 8:OOpm vs.. Seton Hall Sunday Oct. 4th 2:00pm vs. Rutgers 
• ' •~'I .#' .. I'
... I.. ',·.. 
...... -.. -....... --.. -.. -.-... --~-.;. ~ ... .;:::.:;.!I 


• Women's inrerhall • The Yankees, Red • Notre Dame women's golf ream finishes II rh 
-· 
football is in full swing, Sox, and Padres all in the Lady Northern 
with three reams record­won Tuesday3 Intercollegiate. 
ing shutouts last night. 33 in major league 
p. 13 baseball playoffs. pp. 12-14 

p.18
PORTS 
page 20 OBSERVER Wednesday, September 30, 1998 
II FooTnA~.t. 
Back-up quarterback Kustok leaves Notre Dame 
By JOEY CAVA TO Associate Sports Editor 
As a high school quarterback, Zak Kustok had many options in determining wlwn• to dPvelop those talents that madP him mw of the top I00 recruits in tlw nation. 
But with NotrP Danw's rt>turn to option football, Kustok has nxercised his option to display those skills elsPwhere. 
The sophomore ldt the pro­gram and withdrew from tlw University, h(~ad coach Bob Davie announced Munday. 
"It got to tlw point wh()('(~ foot­ball wasn't fun anyrnon)," Kustok told the South Bend Tribune. "It was a job. I think anytime you gPt to that point, you need to do sonwthing about it." 
Last winlPr. the drop-bark style passPr did not sen himself fitting the mold of othnr Irish sig­nal callnrs Jarious Jackson and Eric Chappel. But in early spring drills, Kustok did manage to slide into the second slot on the depth chart. 
However. Chappel improved, Kustok slipped and freshman Arnez Battle impressed -bury­ing Kustok on the depth chart early this fall. 
Although most people ligurnd Battle's signing of his letter of intent would eventually be fol­lowed by Kustok filling out his transfer papers, Kustok did not. 
"I didn't start thinking about transferring until a Thursday scrimmage about a week and a half before the Michigan game," Kustok said. "I worked with the second-team offense, completed all my passes, just played great. I didn't run any option though and 
.... 
.. SPORTS 
wasn't asked to." 
"Two days later. wn had another scriinrnage," lw said. "I didn't get a snap. It was at that point I began questioning what was going on." 
"I didn't seP to what dngren he was frustrated, but by looking at the situation, I certainlv under­stand whv lw would b(:," Davin said. "I wish him nothing but tlw bnst. liP is n~ally a great young man and eonws from a grPat family." 
As the season began to progress. Kustok roaliz('(l that tlw timing was best for him to leav(~ as soon as possible. By leaving Notre Dame now and finding <mothPr school, lw rould use this ypar as his n~dshirt sea­son. 
"OnrP tlw spason started. Ijust kind of committPCI to playing out tlw SPaSOI1 and SPPing what hap­peiwd," he said. "But things didn't get any better and I real­ized sonw schools on trimesturs and quarters arp just starting now. If I enroll by the 12th day of dass, I can take this as my transfer year and play next year." 
"lie's a very smart player and he's athletic," Davie said. "I think he has a bright future. I hated to see Zak Kustok leave, I thought he had a bright future here at Notre Dame." 
Now Kustok begins to consider his options again, almost exactly as he did three years ago when he quarterbacked for Carl Sandbur-g High School in Orland Park, Ill. lie does not have a school picked out yet, but he would like to stay in the mid­west. 
"I haven't been able to contact any schools yet, but I'm interest-


ATA 
GLANCE 

Pel in NorthwestPrn, Illinois, rPally all the Big Ten schools," lw said. ''I'm a midwestern guy at heart. I'll just have to see what would be tlw best fit for 
!TIP." 

Hecruited by former coach Lou I Ioltz, Kustok did not reconsider attending Notre Dame when Davit> was hired. 
But after the graduation of the rPwriter of Notre Dame's pass­ing record book, Bon Powlus, the option retun'led, !raving Kustok in a difTicult position and nowhere near the field. 
"The discussion had gmie on for a couple of weeks with his father. myself and Zak," Davie said. "lie decidrd to go ahead and leave. I think this is proba­bly tlw b(~St thing...at least his family decided it was tlw best thing for him." 
"Nobody n~ally triPe! to talk me out of it," Kustok said. "I think (~verybody understood how I was r()Oling and why. I'm not bittnr." 
"I talkml to him about looking at the big picture," Davie said. "But he comes from a great fam­ily. lie's a sharp. sharp young man. lie was going to make the decision on his own and with his family. That's tlw way it should be and I think that's the way it ended up happening." 
Although Davie understands Kustok's decision, he had hoped that he could find a way to keep him in the blue and gold. 
"I gavr him his release and wished him well but I did hate to see him leave because I think he was a credit to Notre Dame and eould have been an excellent football player here," Davie said. 
Davie also predicted good things for Kustok in the future. "I certainly feel he'll be a 

Irish settle for another tie in OT 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Assistam Sports Editor 
The Irish set a record yes­terday afternoon that they could easily live without. With a 1-1 tie at Kalamazoo against Western Michigan, Notre Dame entered into its firth­straight overtime match. 
Mike Berticelli's squad has only ended one of them early with an overtime goal a week and a half ago at Villanova. Three of them, including yes­terday's, have been stalemate battles. 
In each of the past five matches, the Irish have also had to battle back to tie the game as their opponents have broken in the net first. 
"We've had problems in recent games falling behind early," said co-captain Phil Murphy. "We'vn had a lot to battle back from in the five straight overtime games." 
fir ~­
•
t!rJ 
-:::::::· ··:::::· 
::i::;::~f 

see SOCCER I page 15 
vs Stanford Saturday, I :30 p.m. @ vs. Butler Friday, 7:30p.m. 
a[ Georgetown Saturday, 8 p.m. 

• 
Division I starter and I certainly hope we don't play against him in the next several years," Davie said. "I want to see him have success bEH:ause he's a grrat young man." 

"I know I can play," Kustok said. "''m just looking forward to finding a better lit and having fun again." 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this article. 


The Observer/Bret Hogan The Notre Dame men's soccer team was lacking in firepower last night, scoring only one goal in a tie game with Western Michigan. 
Volleyball

vs. Seton Hall 
vs. Albion College 

Friday, 8 p.m. 
sec Today, 6 p.m. 

Cross Country 
Notre Dame Invitational Soccer Friday, 3:30 p.m. vs. Manchester College Today, 4 p.m. 
S:;([ 






