-~----------------~------------------­

Wednesday, March 4, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 104 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Seniors, alumni will elect seven new directOrs 
i-,Msoc· 

<§-~~.g 1998 Ballot 
Region 1 AK, HI, North. CA; Brain K. Phillips '80 B.A. North NV, OR, WA •Larry C. Lange '71 B.S. 
Region 6 IL, Northwest IN Scott A. Bearby '88 B.A. Stephen G. Grafiker '42 B.A. 
Region 8 IN, KY Michael J. Kiley '56 B.A. Robert V. Welch Jr. '88 B.B.A. 
Region 9 OH, WV, West PA Jamie Kimmel Eifert '84 B.A. Mark Vuono '77 B.B.A. 
Region 16 Cook County, IL Maria Cristina Gonzalez '89 B.B.A. Michael D. Sheehan '66 B.A. 
Region 13 OK, TX Tom Hogan '76 B.A. John G. Moore '75 B.B.A. 
At--Large Julie S. Epping '93 Daniel C. Ville as '89 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN "I think that the association coordinate events. They also Associate News Ediwr went into the database and fig­monitor the community service ured out everyone that is a and continuing education efforts 
Notre Dame seniors and alum­senior, in order to make sure of the clubs. ni will choose seven new' direc­that all seniors got the ballots," "Basically, we set policy and tors for the Alumni Association Franken said. "I know it is a priorities for the entire Alumni Board in elections this month. cliche, but they are the future Association," Franken said. "We 
The board, which consists of alumni." meet three times a year on cam­18 regions and three at-large "It is very important for the pus to discuss. seats, has one-third of its posi­younger people to get involved," "We are sort of a voice for the tions open every year. This year, said Harry Durkin, director of alumni with the Administration," the regions up for election are: region 17, which includes he added. "One of our members one, six, eight, nine, 13 and 16. Florida and Puerto Hico. "Often serves as an ex-officio member Because every director serves for students do not get involved until of the Board of Trustees. We a three year term, one of the at­five or more years after they bring issues and relay the posi­large seats is elected every year. graduate. They have to know tion of the alumni to the adminis­All seniors and alumni can vote. that the Alumni Association is tration in an effort to meet the 
The Alumni Association mailed available and that they can be a needs of the community." ballots, which include a picture, part of it." Ballots are available at the biography and personal state­Directors for each of the 18 Alumni Association office in ment from each candidate, regions help the Notre Dame Grace Hall and are to to that attached to its latest newsletter. Clubs in their region plan and office by March 15. 

The ObserverfTom Roland 
Dawgs remain #1
Kronstein honored 

Dan Zwart, a senior in Alumni Hall, celebrates after the inter­hall basketball 

at service 
Special to The Observer 
championship 
last night in the 

A memorial service for Karl 
Kronstein, professor emeritus 
Joyce Center. 

at the University of Notre Dame, was held yesterday 
Alumni won the

morning at the Basilica of the 
tournament by 

Sacred Heart. Kronstein died Feb. 24 in 
defeating 

Hesurrection Nursing and 
Morrissey Manor 

Hehab Center in Park Ridge, 
48 to 46.

Illinois. From 1958 to 1990, 
Zwart's sign 

Kronstein taught at the University. Within the field of 
reads "D-0-G, " algebra, his research inter­
the Alumni mas­

ests were related to the study 
cot, in Greek let­

of finite group theory. 
ters.

Born in Heidelberg, Germany, he settled with his family in Washington, D.C. 
The

He was a World War II veter­
Observer/Jeff

an and a member of the 11th 
Hsu

Airborne Division. 
He attended Georgetown University and Havard University, where he earned his doctorate degree in 1964. 
Survivors include his wife, Mary Ellen; two daughters, Veronica (Jim) Curtin, Maria (Michael) Fox; one son, Jonathan (Colleen) Kronstein; his brother. Werner; and six grandchildren. 
• 

Licini: ending silence is'key to ending abuse 
By SHANA'E TATE & SARA COX Three out of the 12 silhouettes are that they can be affected," Licini said. News Writers displayed outside of Stapleton Licini's next step in informing peo­Lounge. Made up of life-size wooden ple about domestic violence is to 
As one of the first events of figures, the exhibit represents those reach high school students. Women's Month at Saint Mary's Indiana women whosr, lives ended "Domestic violence can happen. College, the Student Government violently_ at the hands of a spouse, ex­You can break the cycle. Be aware," Association (SGA) sponsored an abu­spouse, partner or acquaintance Licini said. sive relationships lecture. The statues are shown to remember Both speakers emphasized that 
Roughly 20 students gathered last "their [the victims'] stories" and "to domestic violence does not just hap­night to listen to Debbie Licini, an cry out for attention for this prob­pen to poor, uneducated, minority or American Association of University lem." The Silence Witness Program ethnic people. Women (AAUW) representative, and has a branch in all 50 states. "It [domestic violence] can happen Heather Tetzlaff, a Young Women's Licini believes that there is hope in to anyone," said Licini. Christian Association (YWCA) repre­putting an end to domestic violence. In the same vein as Licini, Tetzlaff sentative, speak about date rape and "The silence has to end," Licini said. commented mainly on domestic vio­domestic violence. She believes that when this occurs lence and the YWCA. She described 
Licini spoke on the traveling exhibit, "We can began the iipportant work of several ways of getting help for "The Silent Witness." Since 1994, the ending domestic violence." domestic violence. She listed a 24 Indiana branch of the exhibit has "People may be vaguely aware hour hotline, a 24 hour shelter, a sup-been honoring women murdered about domestic violence, but we need during acts of domestic violence. to help [students] realize themselves 
see VIOLENCE I page 6 





page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Parallelistns in 
•


conversation 
In my two and a half 

Anne Hosinski 
years at Notre Dame, I 
Win: Editor

have had many con­versations. Whether a convflrsation about a papflr or exam, hall policy, or the overcrowding of South Dining llall. all of these conversations seem to have something in common. To some flxtent, they are all parallel conversations. 
A parallel conversation, as one of my friends recently pointed out to me, is a con­versation in which no one listens to one another, but just adds upon the case in point. An example of this is if my friend and I were having a conversation at lunch and I said, "WhHn I was in high school, I was on the varsity basketball team." 
Inevitably, someone else at that table would have had the same experience and would jump in with a personal story. No questions like, "What position did you play?" or "Did you enjoy playing?" are ever asked. Hather. we just tend to associate our own experiences with one another's, with­out taking the time to listen to the stories of our friends and neighbors. We just share our own story and get on with our lives, without taking the time to listen. 
I have noticed that I am quite guilty of parallel conversation. It is not that I do not care about the experiences of others, it is just that I subconsciously feel as if I never have the timfl to listen. My mind is more focused on the other things like the never ending deadlines and appointments I have. 
In many ways, we are all guilty of this. Especially in this busy midterm time of papers, deadlines and tests, we tend to stop caring about others and focus more on our­selves and our own personal drive to achieve. 
I am not saying that we all should aban­don our past and only focus on the present when speaking to each other. Our past is as much of an inherent part of us as is our present and future. Why not share it with those you love? 
The difficulty comes in the sacrifice of lis­tening without imparting your "words of wisdom" when they are not called for. The sacrifice comes in not just hearing the story of your neighbor. but interpreting it and providing caring, sound feedback rather than just imparting a personal experience in which you faced a similar situation, and acted a certain way. 
Ever since Lent began one week ago today, I have been searching for the perfect Lenten sacrifice. What can I give up? What resolution can I make? 
Well. I think I have found it. I need to stop looking inward and start looking out­ward -and start caring for others as they care for me. 
Now that I think about it, making a con­scious decision to care for others is not much of a sacrifice at all, but rather a per­sonal commitment to rearrange my priori­ties and find the right parallels in my life. 
And maybe you can too. 
• 

The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY's STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Sean Smith  Tara Churik  
Colleen McCarthy  Lab Tech  
Erica Thesing  JeffHsu  
Graphics  Liz Lang  
Tom Roland  Accent  
Production  Rachel Torres  
Dan Cichalski  
Sports  
Joe Cavato  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation pcriods. The Observer is.a member of the A~sociated Pres~. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 4, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 





C=:()utside the Dome 
"\{ · Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Celebrations get out of control after Duke basketball win 
DURHAM, N.C. Was it the Gothic Wonderland or Gotham City? 
Many students late Saturday night were probably somewhat unsure them­selves. On the heels of the men's bas­ketball team's victory over the University of North Carolina men's bas­ketball team that afternoon, students and police faced ofT in what Duke stu­dent government president and Trinity senior Lino Marrero called "a battle between the Duke of old and the new Duke." 
Many students at Saturday evening's festivities contend that police over­reacted in their response to student celebrations, although police officials maintain the officers simply responded in necessary fashion to ensure the pub­lic's safety. 
But accusations of violenc~ and unfair treatment lingered in the air that following Sunday morning. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Court dismisses suit against paper 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
It looks like Virginia Tech's newspaper is off the hook. Sharon Yeagle, assistant to the vice president of student affairs at Virginia Tech, sued the Collegiate Times for libel, over the headline "Director of Butt Licking." "Friday the Virginia Supreme Court issued a decision to affirm the trial court's dismissal of the lawsuit against the paper," Times attorney James Creekmore said. "The language that the paper used could not be understood as a statement of fact about the plaintiff, and therefore was not actionable as defamation," Creekmore said. He said the state supreme court defined the headline as "rhetorical hyperbole," a category of speech situated between pure fact and pure opinion. Under this catego­ry, the Times is entitled to First Amendment protection. Virginia Tech officials declined to comment on the rul­ing in detail. "The university does not have any connec­tion to this case," Virginia Tech spokesman Larry Hincker said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Students, fans protest Nike contract 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
Fans responded to UA-Nike contract protesters Saturday morning with a mixture of support, apathy and ridicule when the protesters rallied at McKale Center before the UA men's basketball game against Stanford. "Who do you want a deal with, Bruno Magli?" one heckler shouted at Students Against Sweatshops member Paul Boutyette, referring to the trendy Italian shoe company made famous by O.J. Simpson's murder trial. Boutyette, a Latin American studies graduate student, seemed unperturbed by such comments. "For every heckler, you get a supporter," said Boutyette, one of about 30 protesters who began passing out fliers and waving signs an hour before the 11 a.m. game. James Tracy, one of the group's co-founders, said students, alumni and concerned Tucsonans came to McKale to protest the proposed multimillion-dollar deal to furnish the school's 18 Division I sports teams with Nike athletic apparel. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 

Trinity senior and Duke University rescue squad coordinator Mike Dombeck said that 13 students paged the rescue squad Saturday. 
Two officers were also taken to the emergency room, one for a scratched eye and another for a sprained pec­toral muscle. The latter injury occurred 
• BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
Colleges offer student leaders perks 
BOSTON, Mass. 
From full tuition to annual salaries topping $10.000, universities across the country are offering student gov­ernment leaders compensation for their efforts. Student Leader magazine recently surveyed 150 public and pri­vate universities; of those, 88 percent gave some type of compensation to student government leaders. Schools offer stipends, scholarships and cash so students can concentrate on student government without having to worry about part-time jobs, said Butch Oxendine, editor of Student Leader. Paying students also increases inter­est and professionalism, he said. "Students arc expected to put in 60 hours a week and handle multi-million-dol­lar budgets," Oxendine said. At Boston University, where student government leaders do not receive any type of compensation, student union members said some form of compensation isn't such a bad idea. "It's a really good idea to encourage a higher caliber," said union presi­dent Meghan Fay. 
• NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY Dental school will close in 2001 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
The Northwestern Board of Trustees voted unanimous­ly Monday night to close the 106-year-old dental school after all current students graduate in 2001. A board sub­committee spent the last month and a half researching university president Henry Bienen's Dec. 16 recommen­dation to close the school. Members of the board agreed with Bienen's recommendation in their report to the full board Monday. "It's difficult to make decisions like this, eveQ if the answer is clear and unequivocal," Howard Trienens, who chaired the board subcommittee, said Monday after the vote. "There are a lot people affected including loyal faculty, dedicated alumni and talented students." Dental students said they were not surprised by the decision, but they expressed concern that the school will not be able to retain the faculty needed to teach students through 2001. 
during the arrest of engineering senior Pete Simmons, whose chronically dam­aged shoulder· was dislocated during the incident. 
Some students went so far as to say they should be protected from the police, not the bonfires. ''I'm just trying to stay away from the problems," said Trinity junior Mike Fisher, who claimed to have witnessed off"icers wrestling students to the ground. 
But police maintained that they had done their job correctly. 
"Regardless of the situation, we only use the minimum force necessary to complete an arrest," said Maj. Robert Dean of the Duke University police department. "I think what might be happening is they're being met with a lot of resistance." 
Dean said nine students were arrest­ed Saturday for charges ranging from disorderly conduct to assault on a law enforcement ollicer. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWemher®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
' f''--'''" H L 
I Wednesday G 32 29 Thursday ~ 41 32 Friday ~ 4151 Saturday ~45 40 

/ 
.~50 40
......_.., 

The AccuWeather<~>torecast for noon, Wednessday, March 4 . 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.........._ .........,._

......--.­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 Accuweather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H l B E;Sl ITIJ 0 . I2J 8 i:) ~ d 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIS AsSOCIIJIIild Press 
Atlanta 56 32 Honolulu 79 65 Philadelphia 48 35 Baltimore 46 33 Kennebunk 82 71 Rochester 36 27
8,~,~9.'@8 (f ~ u 
Boston 43 32 Las Vegas 67 45 Sacramento 62 40 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 34 25 Miami 73 50 Seattle 47 35 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
Dallas 68 48 Milwaukee 33 23 Wichita 50 34 
t 

' 



omens 
ews 
Wednesday, March 4, 1998 
C E L E B R. A T I N G W 0 M E N ' S M 0 N T H 
Saint Mary's College WOmen's Month Events 
March 2: 
• YWCA display on domestic vio­

lence in LeMans lobby. March 4: 
• 
Movie: Hide and Seek , Dalloway's 8 p.m. 

• 
Brownbag lunch with Saint Mary's woman of the year, Ann Loux, Haggar Parlor 12 p.m. 


March 18: 
• Lecture: Sandy Laske of Memorial 

Health, Haggar 303, 7:30p.m. March 19: 
• 
Take Back the Night Walk, meet at Dalloway's, 7 p.m. 

• 
Hotel Prati, Dalloway's at 8:30 



p.m. March 23: 
• Art Exhibit Opening in LeMans 

lobby, 6 p.m. March 25: Poetry Reading, Dalloway's 8 p.m. March 30, 31: 
• Student nurses offer blood pres­sure screening and breast cancer information in the LeMans lobby 3 ­5 p.m. 


Women reclaim their story in his-story 
By ANNE SCHNEEMAN the poor from prison. ery throughout New York history. News Writer • Margery Kemp wrote and New England. • Eleanor Roosevelt the first autobiography in • Mary Ann Shadd Cary, served as her husband's 
There is a minimal English, in 1373. After the first black newspaper representative in political amount of information cir­bearing 13 children and editor in North America, life when he crippled by culated about the women running a mill and brewery, founded the Provincial polio. who helped shape history. she became a wandering Freeman in the 1850's. • Gertrude Ederle But one cannot understand visionary, making pilgrim­• Fanny Mendelssohn became the first woman the profound and far-reach­ages to the Holy Land and was the eldest sister and swim the English Channel. ing effects of history if the dictating her life story to confidante of composer She completed the swim stories of important women priestly scribes. Felix Mendelssohn. two hours fa&ter than any who helped create it are • Christine De Pisan, the Throughout her career, she previous record. neglected. first woman writer to suc­wrote 500 musical composi­• Chen Li, China's first 
The following briefs are cessfully support her family, tions. Although most of her female major general, predominately stories of wrote in 1429 a celebratory work remained unpub­became one of 30 women to European women, who account of Joan of Arc's vic­lished, several were pub­survive the famous long changed the world around tory at Orleans. lished under the name of march to Shensi in 1930. them. • Queen Isabella, known her brother. She later led troops against 
Only a fragment of as the "crusading warrior • Belva Lockwood, the Nationalist forces. women's achievements up queen," fought ruthlessly to alarmed by the legal and • Amelia Earhart flew to the middle of this century unite Spain in the 15th cen­economic discrimination from Newfoundland to are included in the follow­tury. against women in American Ireland in 14 hours and 56 ing selections. • Lady Mary Wortley society, decided to take the minutes, the first solo 
• 
Flavia Julia Helena Montague introduced law into her own hands. transatlantic flight by a converted her son smallpox vaccinations to She wrote and lobbied for woman. Constantine to Christianity Western Europe in the 17th an equal pay/equal work • Anne Morrow in 312. He became the first century. bill for women in govern­Lindbergh received a Christian emperor of the • Marie · Louise ment employment. She National Geographic Great Roman Empire. Lachapelle and Marie spurred the "Lockwood Society medal in 1934; her 

• 
Hypatia of Alexandria, Anne Victorine Boivin were Bill," giving women the essays, "Gifts from the Sea," a fourth century philoso­the most important women right to practice in federal are addressed specifically pher and mathematician, medical researchers of the courts. women. was considered one of the 18th century. They made · • Czar Alexander II wass • Hedy Lamarr developed greatest minds of her time. original anatomical discov­assassinated in 1881 by a her idea for a remote con­Her students went on to eries, invented the vaginal female revolutionary. trolled radio system that high positions in the church speculum, and did ground •Queen Yaa Akyaa, produced indecipherable and government. breaking work on the dis­known as the Mother of and unjammable transmis­

• 
Eleanor of Aquitaine, eases of the uterus. Assante ruled Ghana sions. It was also patented perhaps the wealthiest and • Sophie German won the through her sons, until she and offered for use against most powerful woman of gold medal of the first class was captured by the British the Nazis but it was the medieval world, ruled of the Institute of France in and exiled for the success of declined. as queen of. both France 1815, a section of the her international trading. • Edith Hinkley Quimby and England, at different French Academy of Science, • Christine Ladd-helped create radiation times. for her essay on elasticity. Franklin, a mathematician, physics and determined the 

• 
Blanche of Castile • Isabella van Wagener, introduced her theory of precise dosages to be used served as regent of France former slave, preacher and color vision, and although in radiology. during the 13th century. abolitionist took the name her work is recognized dur­• Betty Freidan founded She was known for quelling Sojourner Truth in 1828. ing her lifetime, it received the National Organization anti-Semitism and freeing She preached against slav-little attention in scientific for Women in 1966. 



Congress mandates women's month 
By LISA MAXBAUER hopes of instituting an entire month society, while other communities News Writer toward the cause. sponsored essay contests, parades, With bipartisan support, Congress speakers and concerts as some of the In the 19th century. writer Thomas accepted and passed their petition on Women's Month festivities.Schools Carlyle inadvertently articulated one the grounds that the historical contri­took the personal initiative and incor­of history's timeless problems when he butions of American women "in histo­porated new material into their cur­said, "The history of the world is but ry has been consistently overlooked riculums. Myra and David Sadker, the biography of great men." authors of "Failing at Fairness: March is national Women in How America's Schools Cheat History Month. This year's theme Girls," express the importance is "living the legacy of women's 'EVERY TIME A GIRL READS A WOMAN-of women's history for school­
rights," and it is just one way in LESS HISTORY SHE LEARNS SHE IS children. They wrote, "Every which the United States is , ' time a girl reads a womanless addressing the imbalance of WORTH LESS. 
history, she learns she is worth recorded history. less." 
Just two ·decades ago, high MYRA AND DAVID SADKER, Gerda Lerner a Ph.D. in histo­school students remained unex­AVTHORS ry, stated that "Women's history posed to a curriculum containing is the primary tool for women's elements of women's history. The emancipation." missing status of women in education and undervalued." The Feminist Majority Foundation became the passionate mission for an The congressional resolution stated said that Women's History Month is a Education Task Force Commission out that American women should be bridge toward a better future. The of California. granted this honor for "constituting a group hopes that "when women's 
Their work culminated in 1978 as significant portion of the labor force ... accomplishments take their place as the Task Force instituted the first providing a majority of the volunteer an integral part of society ... Women's Women's History Week, naming March force ... [and serving] as early leaders History Month will serve as a time to 
8th "International Women's Day." The in the forefront of every major pro­look back and reflect on the road to week featured school and community gressive social change movement." equality." activities that recognized the achieve­With national political support aid­They view March as a model for cel­ments of females throughout history. ing the cause, Women's History Month ebrating women's historical achieve­
The new concept of devoting a spe­grew to reach every corner of the ments 365 days a year. cific time toward celebrating women's nation. Numerous groups were impas-If one takes the words of the scholar successes intrigued many communi­. sioned to recover their forgotten femi­Lord Acton to heart, the month of ties. The National Women's History nine heritage. Many cities created a March becomes all the more signifi­Project recognized the idea's popular­"Women's Hall of Fame" to honor cant. He proclaimed that "truth is the ity and sought to confront the United their local leaders who triumphed only merit that gives dignity and worth States Congress in 1987 with the beyond the peripheral restraints of to history." 
-~~--------------­
page 4 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 4, 1998 
Students to spend spring break on service projects 
migrant workers, and spent two nights in their homes. 
For the remainder of the week, the students volunteered at soup kitchens, day care centers, after school programs, homeless shel­ters and other agencies in the area. They also met with the Coalition of Immigrant Workers, which represents the rights of migrant workers. 
Sean Frey, a Notre Dame senior, is helping to organize the 14 sites in the Appalachian Mountains for this year's semi­nars. 
"I went into it with an open mind," he said. "I was ready for anything. The poverty is very striking, but the people are very caring. They would take you into their home and cook a meal for you if they could. That's just amazing," he said. 
Besides the Florida site and the 14 sites in Appalachia, the CSC has organized trips to Haiti, Washington, D.C., and Toronto. The Haitian trip is the newest seminar and allows participants to work with the poor, elderly and the sick through relief orga­nizations in Port-au-Prince. 
In the Washington, D.C., semi­nar. 22 students will explore environmental concerns through meetings with representatives from government and religious agencies in the city. 
Six other students will work at Daybreak, the L'Arche commu­nity in Toronto. Founded by Jean Vanier in 1972, the L'Arche community is home to 100 pr.o­ple with mental handicaps. 
The seminars, which each offer one credit in theology, include orientation meetings beforehand, group discussions, reading assignments and reflec­tion papers. Brandenberger explained that these elements allow the students to make the most out of their experiences, and that recent research sup­ports this idea. 
"That's where you integrate things. You learn social issues from multiple perspectives," he said. 
The seminars are open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Some seminars also include Holy Cross students, and some share sites with students from other universities around the nation. 


By ERICA THESING NowsWritor 
Instead of taking a week ol'f l'rom learning and studying, 158 Notre Dame students will contin­ue their education over spring break through the social con­cerns seminars at Notrn Dame. 
The seminars, which began in 1980, send students to spend a week of' experiential learning at sites throughout the U.S., as well as in Toronto and Haiti. 
The seminars incorporate an opportunity for service with a valuable learning experience, aeeording to Jay Brandenberger, director for experiential learning and justice education at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Depending on the site, stu­dents provide serviees such as tutoring, medical care, home repair, home cleaning and day­earn. While service is delinitdy an important aspect of the semi­nars, Brandenberger thinks that the educational benefits arc key. 
"This isn't just about Notre Dame students g.oing out and helping people. It's also part of their education," he said. "People have be1m helping pen­ph~ for millions of years. We're saying that when you help some­orw, you might learn something too." 
Brandenberger hopes that the students learn about the com­plexity of social issues, including the many factors that create poverty, though their work with the loeal residnnts on site. lie 
emphasized that the complexity 
of social issues prevents quick 
solutions. 
"We hope that [the students] 
don't think they can save some­
one in a week," he said. "There 
are complex solutions that 
demand structural attention as 
well as direct relationships." 
Angela Anderson, a Notre 
'ILEARNED THE POWER OF 
COMMUNI1Y AND THE 
COMPASSION AND HOSPITALI­
1Y THAT THOSE PEOPLE 
WHO ARE CONSIDERED TO BE 
UNDERPRIVILEGED HAVE FOR 
EVERYONE.' 
ANGELA ANDh"RSON 
N071lE DAME SOPHOMORE 
Dame sophomore who partic­ipated in a seminar last spring break, understands the learning process. 
"I learned the power of com­munity and the compassion and hospitality that those people who are eonsidered to be underprivi­leged have for everyone, no mat­ter who you are," she said. 
Anderson participated in the migrant worker seminar in Immokalee, Florida, and is orga­nizing the trip for this year. She, along with the other students, spent two days working in the tomato fields alongside the 

JOB HUNTING? 
ALL INTERVIEWS TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK ARE POSTED TOI>A Y IN THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE. CHECK NOW TO SEE IF YOU ARE SCHEDULED. 
IF YOU ARE NO LONGER INTERESTED, CROSS YOUR 
NAME OFF THE SCHEDULE. DO NOT TAKE AN 
INTERVIEW AWAY FROM ANOTHER STUDENT. 
NO-SHOWS HURT EVERYONE. 
IF YOU SIGN UP, SHOW UP. 


Senior Premed Students -Planning to attend medical school? -Interested in exploring primary health care? Then consider the Thomas Dooley Service Award Project . b A year-long service project at St. Joseph's Chapin Street Health Center in South Bend sponsored by the ND Alumni Club of Saint Joseph Valley Applications now available at the Center for Social Concerns Questions? Call Ed McCoul at 289-7662 before 5pm, or call 289-7148 after 5pm  
CLASS of '98 free food tonight get there @ 7pm a/s club the last one  


• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Clinton supports DUI bills 
WASHINGTON 

Citing the case of a 9­year-old girl who was mowed down by a drunk driver while she waited for a sehool bus, President Clinton is adding his voice to a ehorus urging states to get tougher with anyone who drinks and drives. 
The president today was 
Clinton throwing his support behind a proposal in Congress under which states would be asked to lower to .08 percent the blood-alcohol level at which a driver is declared legally drunk or risk losing certain federal highway funds, according to White House officials who spoke Monday on condi­tion of anonymity. 
For his part, Clinton was issuing an execu­
tive order calling on Transportation 
Secretary Rodney Slater to conduct a study 
on enforcing the .08 limit on federal lands 
such as national parks, the officials said. 
Currently, 35 states define drunkenness as a 
blood-alcohol level of .10 percent. 
Nazi officer fights conviction 
ROME 

A defense lawyer urged an appeals court 
Tuesday to overturn a former Nazi officer's 
conviction in a World War II massacre of 335 
civilians in a cave outside Rome. 
Former SS Maj. Karl Hass, 85, was convict­
ed last year by a military tribunal and sen­
tenced to 10 years and eight months in 
prison. He was then freed under an amnesty, 
but appealed anyway to clear his name. 
His lawyer, Stefano Maccioni, said in his 
dosing argument Tuesday that Hass played 
no role in organizing the 1944 massacre at 
the Ardeatine Caves. 
Maccioni said !lass was in the same cate­
gory as live low-level officers and noncom­
missioned officers who were acquitted in 
~ 948 because the court found they were act­
mg on the orders of their commander. 
Plane wreckage found 
BOISE, Idaho 

. A sm~l~ plane crashed on a sightseeing 
11Ight. killing two adults and four children, 
authorities said after the wreckage was 
found today. Ground crews had not yet 
reached the wreckage in a rugged, remote 
ama, but National Guard Lt. Col. Jim Ball 
said searchers who flew over the site by 
helicopter reported there were no sur­
vivors. 
yhe Cessna 303 disappeared Monday 
alternoon after leaving Boise Airport on a 
sightseeing flight. 
There was no immediate indication what 
caused the crash, in a high desert area 
about 60 miles northwest of Boise. 
IMtM§iiMfNiii)i-­
AMEX:Dow 708.97 -1.27 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1757.14

8584.83 
-1.40 

Same· 
8
•
NYSE: 
546.89 ' +2.26 • S&P 500: Composite
1052.02 Volume: +34.38 +4.32 717,275.840 
JIIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

COMPANY TICKER '!i! CHANGF $ GA(N PRICE 
ANDS REGENT SNDS 42.86 0.750 2.500 AERO SYSTEMS ENG AERS 41.67 0.625 2.125 ltOLLYWOOD PRODUC FILMD 31.67 0.594 2.469 IMAGYN MW TECH IMTI 28.00 0.4J8 2.000 INPONAUTICS INC INFO 26.09 4.500 21.750 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

PIIYSICIAN COMPUT PCNI 69.85 2.969 1.281 MY LIN PIIARM INC MLN 44.44 2.250 2.812 IIEAI.TIICOOR IIOLDGS IICOR 29.09 1.000 2.438 BENTON OIL-CW99 BNTNW 20.00 0.875 3.500 LEAK-X ENVIR LEAK 20.00 0.500 2.000 



Violence in Yugoslavia continues 
By DUSAN STOJANIC Associated Press Writer 
CIREZ, Yugoslavia 
In a show of mass defiance, more than 30,000 ethnic Albanians evaded Serb roadblocks Tuesday to attend the funeral of two dozen compatriots killed by police in weekend violence. 
Flashing the victory sign, mourners in the province of Kosovo sent Serbian authorities a strong message: Three days of violence have only strengthened their push for independence from Serb­dominated Yugoslavia, made up of Serbia and the smaller republic of Montenegro. 
The burials coincided with reports of a weekend massacre of 11 male mem­bers of a family who allegedly were rounded up by Serb police and execut­ed. 
In the harshest U.S. criticism yet of the crackdown on ethnic Albanians Robert Gelbard, the top America~ envoy to the Balkans, warned that Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic -who controls Serbia -is risking the collapse of his government if the vio­lence does not cease. 
The bodies of 24 ethnic Albanians killed over the weekend were buried on a hill in this remote Kosovo village Tuesday. One was buried Monday-an overall death toll that contradicts Serbian officials' announced toll of 16 dead. 
People drove or walked over hills, fields and small rivers to dodge Serbian police and roadblocks set up to prevent Both si_des ~ee ~he results of the weekend violence 
AFP Photo 

them from gathering at the burial site Two Serb1an ~ohce ~ff1ce~s carry photos of their fallen colleagues during a funeral for on a broad, grassy hill above the village four pollee off1cers ~1lled 1n the Kosovo clash. More than 2,000 people attended the ofCirez. funeral on Tuesday tn Pancevo, Yugoslavia. 
The area was the site of last week­·:They beat t~em severely," she said, sobbing. "I saw themend's bloody clash between Serbian security forces and local bemg taken ahve outside the gate. Then, first I heard criesethnic Albanians. The Serbs say four of their men were killed and then shots." 
in a_n am_bush befo~~ _the_y moved into Cirez and other neigh­She said she didn't know what happened to her father,bonng VIllages to hqmdate 16 terrorists." But locals say 
three brothers or seven cousins, as the women had to 
ab~ut 25 ~thnic Albanians were killed in a retaliatory Serb ~ema!n pinned to the floor for four more hours. Neighborsactwn agamst unarmed villagers. Human rights officials and 1d~ntlfied the Ahmeti men in the Pristina morgue on Monday.
We~tern officials have condemned the police action. 
After _what _h~ppened here, how can anyone imagine we SlXtee?-~ear-old Mirsije Ahmeti said police burst through can contmue hvmg together with Serbs in Kosovo?" Kosovoher ~amily s front gate Saturday with an armored personnel human rights activist Muran Musliju asked as mourners car­earner. fired at her house, ordered women to lie down, beat ried bodies wrapped in red Albanian flags on open stretch­
up the men and took them outside. ers. 
Police arrest 7million theft 
and court d9cuments paint a pic·
FBI says thieves 
ture oflavish spending by some. qf defendants after the · the docu· me11ts. 
us~d 1Tloney (or neil) car,. home 
ByJ>AQL NOWELL 
ambers hhnselfwas a former 
Assodated Press Writer 

· ·. ·• informant who had provided information ''on a then future
CHARLOTTE, NX, 
Loomis armored car robbery which
While the FBI spent five months never materialized," the documentslooking< for David Scott Ghantt; 
.said. .. .
authorities· say .his accomplices in• a Within 24 days of the real heist,$17 million heist were living the 
Chambers W!Jnt from a mobile
high life -a new car, a new home 
home to a $635,000 borne in 
even breast implants for one. ' 
Cramer Mountain Country Club,
As Ghantt and seven others await 
authoritiessaid. His wife, they said,
hearings on charges from the 
got breast implants and used cash · October theft, authorities still have to purchase a 1998 BMW Z3 sports 
a big unanswered question: Where's most of the money? car. 
From Oct. 6 through Feb. 20, the
Ghantt, 28, was arrested Sunday couple made 47 deposits totaling
at Playa del Carmen, Mexico, near $271,500 at. a Belmont bank, and at .
the island resort of Cozumel. He one point Ms. Chambers tried to get
was brought back to Charlotte, an official bank ch6ck withwhere a federal grand jury in 
$200,000 in cash, authorities said.
October charged him with bank lar­· · also discovered the· ceny after. a van load ofcash was 
a · · .busj., ~~~len fr lJ. Loomis, Fargo and. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 4, 1998 


Eldred discusses curriculum with faculty assembly 
By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's College president Marilou Eldred met with the fac­ulty assembly yesterday to dis­cuss her concerns for current College curriculum and to share her vision of her working rela­tionship with faculty. 
"Curriculum is a topic very near and dear to me," Eldred said, referring to her past work in higher education. 
Before delving into suggestions for Saint Mary's curriculum, Eldred recounted her experience in implementing new academic requirements at St. Catherine's, where she worked before com­ing to Saint Mary's. 
Eldred emphasized that although the financial assistance from two grants to fund the background work on a freshman seminar class was helpful, there were several other contributing factors which played a role in establishing the course, efforts which can be repeated in imple­menting new curriculum at Saint Mary's. 
According to Eldred, faculty interaction with professors and administrators from other insti­tutions who are addressing simi­lar projects is instrumental in such a process. 
Eldred then explained how Saint Mary's could possibly build 



Violence 
continued from page 1 
port group and a Survivors Support Network. The 24-hour hotline is the only one of the domestic vio­
lence services that can be accessed by anyone regardless of age or sex, according to Tetzlaff. 
Another service provided by the YWCA is the 24­hour emergency shelter. This shelter is offered to women at least 18 years of age and their children. Individuals do not have to be an Indiana resident to come to the shelter for help. The support group and the Survivors Support Network are ofl'ered to batterml womnn who have left an abusive relation­ship. 
"llow bad does it have to gnt?" Tetzlaff asked in a rlwtorical question to the group. 
She said that wornnn. on the average, !nave a rdationship six times before actually leaving it for good. 
According to Tetzlafl', "a lot of women rnported to me and said that 'I had to leave last night because someone was going to die."' 
She noted that 75 percent of women killed by domestic violence had left the relationship prior to thnir death. 

on the example she experienced at St. Catherine's. 
"Where do we want the cur­riculum to go?" she asked the faculty. "It may not need to change if we are 100 percent pleased with it." 
She referred to the recent addition of women's studies and justice education minors to the curriculum as a "very positive, even transformative, experience for the faculty involved in those programs." The two minors are exemplary of interdisciplinary collaboration between profes­sors; each class in the minor is taught by members of different departments. 
Eldred also pointed out some 
Tetzlafl' said that the first relationships people have, usually during teenage years, set the tone for other relationships. She then stressed the fact that St. Joe County does not have any services for teenage girls. 
"Awareness. Awareness. Awareness. For me, education is the key to helping a friend get out, getting out yourself or preventing getting into a relationship," Tetzlaff said. 
In ending the lecture, Tetzlaff stated that every 15 seconds a woman reports being abused. After reading this, nearly 16 women will have been abused. 
Two representatives of SGA, who attended the lecture, commented that the night was a success. 
"I think domestic violence is an ugly topic that our society does not like to address. The only way we can deal with those effected is through pro­grams like this," said Nikki Milos, student body president. 
"It was excellent. Domestic violence is something that few pnople realize is happening to us when it happens. It is the type of situation that is looked at in hindsight. If there is more education, it can be combated before it becomes a big problem. I am glad they came on campus and I think people were informed," said Bridget Sullivan, president of the Residence Hall Association. 
voids in the current curriculum. 
"I was surprised to find out that Saint Mary's does not have a health or fitness requirement for students," she said. "It sur­prised me that we weren't atten­tive to our students' health on a curricular level." 
She also recounted her bewil­derment at the lack of a volun­teerism requirement. 
"There is something in the social teachings of the Church that [indicates to me] that we ought to be serving in some sort of way," she said. 
Eldred concluded that a com­mon experience for first-year students is vital for a college. "Building expmience in the col­lege as formal education [is very important] ... and curriculum reform has to come from the fac­ulty and the academic leadership of the College." 
Eldred challenged the faculty to explore changes and promised that, "If financial assistance is required in the process, I will find the funding." 

.,u~.~u~'""'~ made by Saint Mary's her job being in jeop­hei decision on The Alliance taken slightly out of context IO~rte{liml.t· she made a statement at not want to have to look 'facetious and intended 

t-lappy Bi~thdu~ 1 Ma~di! Love1 Mom1 Dad1 3ames1 & Molly 


REUSE 

' '
I I I 

__ ,
,-
-----­
1 
I I I 


' 
SHOE 



student government 

The Problem;-Old Shoes. 
After all they've done for you, don't your old, your worn, your weary shoes deserve a better end than a dirty old landfill? It's not only undignified, it doesn't help the ecosystem one bit. What you may not know is how much life your shoes actually have left in them after you think they're all tired out. 
The Solution;JTurn 'em into something else. 
Student Government and Nike are collecting used or unwanted athletic shoes of any brand, and then we're going to grind them up and give them new life as athletic surfaces and Nike products. By the end of 1998, Nike hopes to be recharging the lives of at least 2.1 million pairs of shoes. 
Fancv Footwork. 
So what are we going to do with all of your old shoes? You can drop off your shoes at any one of many collection sites around campus, starting MARCH 23, and Student Government will box 'em all up and ship them off to Nike in Portland, Oregon. There the shoes will be ground up into three distinct types of raw material: rubber from the outsole, foam from the midsole, and fabric from the shoe's upper half. 
We take the granulated rubber that comes from the outsole and make running tracks, tennis courts, basketball courts, climbing walls, and playgrounds. We also use the granulated foam from the shoe midsoles for these surfaces and for equestrian riding surfaces. The granulated upper fabric from the shoe uppers becomes the padding under carpets. Not bad for a pair of old worn out shoes, huh? 

Places to P.l.A.Y. 
Through the Reuse-A-Shoe program, Nike's P.L.AY. (Participate in the Lives of America's Youth) initiative donates playgrounds, running tracks, and basketball courts in communities around the U.S. 
Brillg vour old shoes back from Spring Break... 
GOAl: To collect2000 pairs of BROUGHT TO YOU THROUGH THE EFFORTS OF: shoes...the number of shoes needed 

to make an entire basketball coon! student government 

Wednesday, March 4, 1998 
The Observer • NEWS 


Lesbians' ears work like men's 
By PAUL RECER lesbians. 
Associated Press Dr. Michael Bailey of Northwestern University, said the research is "compelling" and may be WASHINGTON "consistent with the biological origin of lesbian-
The inner ears of lesbian women works more ism." like that of men, according to researchers who He added: "The most likely interpretation is that say the finding is the first strong evidence of phys-this represents some kind of effect of early hor­iological differences between gay and straight mones on the developing fetus." women. Bailey cautioned, however, that the research 
Experts say the disc~Wery, pub­will not be accepted as valid until lished today in the Proceedings of , others replicate the experimer,Jt. the National Academy of 'THEIR AUDITORY CEN­Sandra Witelson, an expert on 
Sciences, adds new support to the brain anatomy and sexual orien­theory that sexual orientation in TERS HAVE BEEN MAS-tation at McMaster University in women may be determined by CULINIZED...SO THEY HAVE Ontario, Canada, said the study biology and not choice. results support the theory that 
Currently there is a controversy THE SITES IN THE BRAIN lesbianism may be "related to over the origin of homosexuality. THAT DIRECT SEXUAL PREF­early factors in brain develop­Some groups believe it to be a ERENCE.' ment." 
matter of choice and have spent Researchers earlier found that considerable effort attempting to DENNIS McFADDEN two parts of the male brain are lind a "cure" for being gay. Many different in gay men. Other stud­in the gay community, however, insist that being ies have found that some genes differ between gay homosexual is a matter of biology. and straight men. 
Researchers at the University of Texas, Austin, McFadden, a professor of experimental psychol­said their studies show the inner ears of female ogy, said the inner ear difference between homo­homosexuals has undergone "masculinization," sexual and heterosexual women was detected probably from hormone exposure before birth. using a test that measures the function of the 
"Their auditory centers have been masculinized cochlea, a key sound amplifier in the inner ear. and the presumption is that so have the sites in The cochlea amplifier in women is more sensi­the brain that direct sexual preference," said tive than that of men, giving women an increased Dennis McFadden, lead author of the study. He ability to detect very soft sounds in a very quiet said it has yet to proven, however, that there is a room. specific site in the brain that directs women to be The difference, said McFadden, can be mea­
sured by a test called clicked-evoked otoacoustic emission, or CEOAE. McFadden said that this test measures a very slight sound that the cochlea makes when responding to a soft clicking sound in a quiet room.

; , 
"When you present a click to a
E V E N T S 
normal inner ear, it gives back a


CELEBRATED 
sound that is like an echo," said McFadden. "It is very, very weak and it is very short, only a few tens of milliseconds." 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
Females, with their more sensi­302 East Donaldson Avenue 
tive cochlea, respond more power­Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
fully to this test than do men. 219 258-5482 
Call or write 
e White House for aj9~ at the tag~() tt.•ti.n 'l~$1.~ ,}Were ·•• • related and to othel' than 





HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Things to do before spring break: 
I. Water plants real well 
2. 
Confirm hotel rooms in Panama City 

3. 
Set VCR to tape Simpsons 

4. 
Buy road atlas (no getting lost this year) 

5. 
Take down Christmas lights 

6. 
Call home (read:get cash) 

7. 
Finish HCA application 




PROMOTING GROWTH IN: 
• 
Service 

• 
Simple Lifestyle 

• 
Spirituality 

• 
Community Living 


PLACEMENTS IN: 
• 
Phoenix, AZ 

• 
Hayward (Bay Area), CA 

• 
Colorado Springs, CO 

• 
Brockton (Boston Area), MA 

• 
Portland, OR 

• 
Wtlkes-Barre, PA 





• AWAKENINGS ABROAD 

Middle-East Crisis Has Much Political Significance 
LONDON 
Tho world's brush with another war in the Gulf' and the pending aftermath represent a potentially pivotal moment in the long run state of global power polities. This brief saga is the story of a former and reigning Great Power; one struggling to reassert its status as a pri­mary global player. the other dinging to its position as the sole political. econom­ic, and military superpower. The agree-

J.P. Cooney 
rnent negotiated by Kofi Anan could cut one of two ways: to undermine or pro­pel the international standing of' Great Britain and her one time colony turned big brother, the U.S. llow events tran­spirn in the corning weeks could ignite a new era in geopolitical power align­ment. 
The outcome of' the temporarily averted crisis in the Gulf was a positive one f'or the U.S. and Britain. Saddarn Hussein has agreed to weapons inspec­tions. the UN Security Council was not explicitly subverted, and the usn of force f'or which there was little global or domestic support was avoided. President Clinton continues to publicly embrace the agreement half-heartedly, as lw should. But let's faee it: Anan was not about to return with a deal unac­ceptable to the nation which held the trump card when it came to military action. Diplomacy supported by the U.S.'s flexed muscles worked. 
Despite that. Clinton and his chief for­eign advocate Tony Blair look somewhat foolish. They are not credited with pre­venting a crisis, rather they are viewed as rnactionaries who doused fuel on the fire. Regardless of whether or not this 
is true, the implications are consider­
able at horne and abroad. 
Contrary to popular belief, it took guts to put the ball in Anan's court. Had he failed, the U.S. would have been backed into a corner and forced to strike with­out spearheading our own diplomatic efl'ort. At the same time, however, Anan's success marginalizes the percep­tion of U.S. global influence. The world thinks that the UN Secretary-General deaned up the U.S.'s mess. undermin­ing our supposed hegemonic intentions and preventing an intrusion of regional sovereignty. 
The plot thickens further should the peace agreement fail. The U.S. would again be trapped as the world's police force, bringing with it substantial global and domestic political ramifications. The global community would most likely divide into heated factions of those who support the U.S. and those who do not. Moreover, U.S. domestic support for UN involvement would erode further. weak­ening the UN and leaving the stage for global politics uncertain. 
Things arc complicated for Great Britain as well. Blair is committed to the renewed Special Relationship and will support the U.S. through hell and high water. The result, however, is that he is viewed as a blind apostle with rel­atively little influence. Some speculate that Blair actually played a critical role in the peace process, counseling Clinton against the use of force and keeping the line of communication between the U.S. and UN open. That matters little though when you arc perceived to be nothing more than a lap dog. 
This brings me to the point: The pub­lic perception at home and abroad is that Clinton and Blair handled the lraqui situation poorly. Perception may not seem to mean much when you are the nation with the world's largest mili­tary arsenal and possess the strongest economy; it may even seem to mean lit­tle when you are the closest ally of the only pure superpower and maintain 
• DOONESBURV 
8lJT~UP A/SOHAVe' 7lJ PR£­
ITMAY~ 1<//?S, 
IF 7HATHAPPt;NS, IF7HIS
PAR& aJRS/3L.VE5 FOR. 7H& 
'$/?R/81.8 Tl?Aee/7YOV&R­
7/IATAtL orlJIIS 
IUORST. MR. CL-INTON MIGHT
IVIU f!tOt(/O~N. 
lll/<&5 tHe P/?£9/t?&NT, w
/aftL. 8eFORC£I1FROM OFFIC/3!
I 
YOU 7HINI< tueU AUet Aet.E llJCOPef' 
"' 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Student Body President Sends Thanks-to O'Hara 
Dear Professor O'Hara, 
On behalf ofthe Campus Life Council, I would like to extend our most sin­. cere thanks and appreciationfor the efforts extended by you and the of the Office ofStudent Affairs, in regards to the recent death of Justin Brumbaugh. 
At the Campus Life Council's most recent meeting, many feelings were · expressedregarding Student Affairs' work in assuring a Notre Dame presence at the services for Justin in Dayton. Council members expressed pride in being a part of a community that responds with such true compassion and dignity in a time ofbereavement for one of our own. · 
Once again, 0\lr thanks to you and your staff. 
global influence that can't be blinked at. But when you also happen to be the two healthiest democracies in the world, driven by public opinion and hostage to the whims of hostile and free-thinking electorates, it means quite a bit. 
Depending on how this crisis plays out and what the spin on the six o'clock news is, Blair's attempts to reassert Britain's geopolitical position may be rendered useless by the restless coun­tryside and easily disenchanted middle­class. Likewise. Clinton's continuation of traditional U.S. foreign policy may be rejected by the ideal youth, penny­pinching middle-class, and skeptical senior-citizens. Moreover. the U.S. has always enjoyed the support of foreign nations who revered the Stars and Stripes and craved the realization of . their own American Dream. Now that the Cold War is over and democracy reigns supreme, the U.S. is seen as the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
OF caJRS/3/ ANI? H/35 AI.-601?& SO S!RAIGHT 15 Jli5T II& HANGS AS CU7!3/ affiV/7Ji 
\ ~l/N9. 
Matthew T. Griffin Student Body President Chair, Campus Life Council February 26, 1998 
problem, not the solution to global dilemmas. 
Saddarn llussein has succeeded in inserting the U.S. and Gn~at Britain into an intense game of' pickle. Though in the end he will not achieve his unlawful hegemonic objectiVf~s. he may uninten­tionally succeed in altering the global political alignment and arena. The scope of this crisis promises to stretch wider than thn Middl!~ East, and may ultimately prove to be the source, f'or better or f'or worse, of Clinton and Blair's textbook legacies. 
J.P. Cooney is an economics and gov­ernment major attending the London Program. He can still be reached via e­mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Alittle inaccuracy some­times saves tons of explanation." 
-H.H. Munro 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

VIEWPOINT

Wednesday, March 4, 1998 page 9 
• PERSPECTIVES OF NO • Goo 'N liFE 
Surviving the Onslaught On the African-American Family 

Manuel Lombard was in the fifth grade when his income, however, families were able to gain some eco­father died of illness. Before his father passed, he nomic stability. made Manuel. the eldest boy, promise to keep the The African American family was further challenged family together and to take care of in Southern cities by groups like the Ku them. Klux Klan, who routinely lynched or 
Manuel reluctantly gave up chastised African American men. With school and took on several jobs to such activities, strong father figures no provide money and food for his doubt grew scarce. Once again, it was 
Mel

younger brothers and sisters. He the matriarch who helped families sur­kept his promise to his father. vive during this period. Manuel's great faith and strong When World War II came, so did the 
Tardy

values led him to become the back­first real integration of the military. bone of the family. He rarely African American males left home as missed a day of church. He later "boys" but returned as "men." As sol­
married a young woman, Virginia, who also never went to high school. Together, they had several children. 
Having a knack for horses, he later acquired his own, which he used to deliver things for white folk in town. Someone eventually entrusted him to deliver ice blocks for refrigerators, using his horses and wagon. For a "Negro," this was an important job in hot, humid New Orleans, and he gained much respect. He also gained respect by organizing positive activities for other African Americans, including church dances, and a Negro softball team. 
Manuel never went past the fifth grade, but he did impress upon his siblings, children and grandchildren the importance of an education. When he died, several of his siblings and children not only had high school diplomas -some had college degrees, and one had a master's and, eventually, a PhD. 
I remember my great grandmother, too. She could barely walk, and when she did, it was with a side-to­side gait. due to bad knees. She was half Indian, and anytime I see pictures of elderly Native Americans, I see her face. When we visited my great-grandparents -who helped babysit us kids, it was a real family alTair. We'd see my grandmother and a few aunts, too, many of whom lived right there, or nearby. We'd go over for lunch or dinner (usually a chicken, which my great granddad would kill himself. He'd grab it by the head and spin it around until the head popped ofT. Often. it'd still run around the yard awhile, bumping into things! Needless to say, sometimes we were afraid of our great grandfather.) My great grand­mother would then pluck and cook the chicken. Somehow. we never equated the delicious food with· the thing we saw running around the yard. 
We moved to Milwaukee during my high school years. My final memory of my great grandmother is when she flew out for my high school graduation. She sat in a wheelchair, in front of everyone. To me, it was just high school graduation. To her, however, it was something she could never have done. She was so very proud. Such memories later helped me to sur­vive Notre Dame. I knew how much my education meant to my family. 
As we approach the end of Black History Month, one aspect of history remains to be addressed, and that is the state of the African American "family." Indeed, how can one talk about history but fail to mention family? A central, and constant, threat to African Americans -which many other ethnic groups in America have not faced -is the combination of forces bent on the destruction of the African American fami­ly. 
In Africa, as In most civilizations, families were 

always central to everyday experience. It was how 
values, traditions, and trades were passed along. 
Elders were held in high esteem for their wisdom. 
Everyone played a valuable role in their communities. 
Then, in America, the slave trade broke up families 

of African descendants, to prevent slaves from devel­
oping enough identity and confidence to realize they 
ought not beenslaved. Similarly, many family tradi­
tions were quelched because slaves could not keep 
family names, practice rituals or religions, or even 
speak their native African tongues. Also, the constant 
threat of being sold, killed, or even bred like animals, 
made it difficult for us to maintain the same concepts 
of family to which many Africans were familiar. 
Nevertheless. we survived. After slavery, 

Reconstruction offered us a period of relative stability 
during which we could re-establish the family. Lack of 
education -our own. and American -made this dif­
ficult. but some people knew trades and some estab­
lished freed slaves and sympathetic Caucasians helped 
us to regain some of what we had lost, and to learn 
about the system we were now in. 
Following emancipation. many freed slaves stayed in 

the South as sharecroppers. According to renowned 
sociologist, E. Franklin Frazier, the opportunities of 
the Industrial Revolution are what brought significant 
numbers of African Americans to the North -and 
also. into city life. The family values gained from life 
in the country were seriously challenged by the fast 
life of the city. In addition, the sight of so many African 
Americans getting jobs led to resentment from the 
Caucasian es~ablishment. A lot of these challenges are 
conveyed in .the books written by Richard Wright, in 
the early part of this century. At least with steady 
diers, they had fought for too much, and seen too much of the outside world, to go back to being called "boy" at home. Also, with the G.l. Bill, many were finally in positions to get real education in America. All of this eventually led to the Civil Rights Movement. As Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. once said, the greatest thing about that period was that "we straightened our backs up, and a man can't stand on your back unless it's bent." 
Following the 1960s, other factors took a toll on the African American family. Integration brought oppor­tunities for some African Americans, but unfortunate­ly, many of these talented individuals never returned "home" with their newly acquired gifts. Meanwhile, the industrial base supporting mimy African American families in the cities dried up, due to technological innovations and cheaper labor in other countries. Third, many Caucasians fled the cities ("white flight"), taking jobs to the suburbs. The dearth of jobs brought economic depression to the "inner cities." The critical mass of "elders" who could have helped had either left or been decimated by the assaults on the previous generation. This left many young African Americans vulnerable to an onslaught of drugs and narcotics, brought to our neighborhoods by profiteering others. 
Neglected by many, young people had to do some­thing to survive. Many turned towards gangs for pro­tection and a feeling of"family." Couple that with the materialistic TV society of the1980s, and the "gangs­ta" mentality of the 1990s and you get a formula for the destruction of African American families from the inside out. 
Once again, African American males were under assault, however, this time it was from each other (i.e. drive-bys) as much as from a society determined to protect itself from the angry young black male by too eagerly putting "him" in jail. Once again, the strong mother figure had the difficult. support role. 
Where do we go from here? First, remember, we have successfully faced difficult challenges in the past, from slavery, to the Klan, to city life, to lynchings. Economic stability and independence, via education, are key. Indeed, there are many families which have such stability and values. Moreover, such families need to invest time and resources into the community. We need to give young people with no hope something to do, just as my great grandfather did -armed only with faith and a fifth grade education. 
African Americans have to remember the values 
that make us strong. For example, drinking parties 
have never been a part of our NO experience (one rea­
son some African Americans dislike the NO culture). 
Our parties are oriented more towards dancing than 
drinking, because that's part of our culture. Also, rec­
ognize the beauty in our people and stop trifling each 
other. Often, we are our own worst enemies. The 
young man we allow to fail may be the cornerstone 
our family needs. The young woman we view lustily 
or from s9meone else's diminished standard of beauty 
may be the strong mother figure for our (unfortunate­
ly) fatherless families of tomorrow. We need to pull it 
together in order to survive. 
The recent movie, "Soul Food," resonates with a lot 
of African Americans because the matriarch grand­
mother -the elder -is the one who traditionally has 
held our families together. That's why I consider my 
memory of Manuel Lombard such a treasure -a 
strong, faithful, male elder. We all should take on his 
promise to his dying father: take care of our families, 
keep them together! We need to protect our heritage, 
support each other as brothers and sisters, go to our 
children's graduations, and those of our grandchil­
dren. 
It goes beyond Notre Dame. The effect is genera­
tional. In doing so, they will all learn what it is we 
value, and develop pride in who they are and from 
whence they came. 
Only if we can do these things will we survive, suc­
ceed, and be family. 
Mel Tardy. ND '86 and '90, is an academic advisor for the First Year ofStudies. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at melvin.r. tardy.l @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe 
author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

The Game of 


Ethics 

Ethics. While not an ethicist, and many of us aren't, we hear a lot today about actions being "ethical" or 
Julie Ferraro 

"unethical." In a way, these terms have replaced "right" and "wrong" in the public eye. Newt Gingrich was brought before an Ethics Committee because of his questionable teaching practices. When Bob Dole loaned Newt the money to pay the fine this Committee levied against him, many people wondered if the ethics of Newt and Bob shouldn't be investigated. No one, how­ever, stood up and simply said, "He did something wrong." 
In the game of ethics, it is possible to do something right for the wrong reasons, or vice versa. In medical circles, a physician might give a patient drugs not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, but it if saves the patient's life, it is viewed as merely "unethi­cal." If the patient died, it is not only unethical, but pos­sibly murder. Where does this leave believers in God, believers in right and wrong, when they want to join the ranks of professionals, be it as lawyers, doctors, accoun­

tants, etc.? Do the ethics courses taught on a college level not show us that doing whatever it takes is sanc­tioned, as long as we don't get caught? Perpetuating ethics of this kind could be why the ordinary "man on the street" views physicians as quacks, lawyers as shys­ters, and accountants as frauds. Cheating on medical insurance claims has become all too common; falsifying evidence, or illegally obtaining same is practiced in even "respectable" courtrooms; "cutting taxes" by claiming too many deductions is viewed by some as "beneficial." It isn't "wrong" from a professional standpoint, merely unethical. 
God, I don't believe, views matters in this light. God reads hearts, assesses our intentions. If we have been trained from childhood what is right and wrong, God views what we do on whether we know it is right and do it for that reason, or if we know it is wrong and do it anyway. If we grew up in "ignorance," and we give thought to our actions, God recognizes that, too. 
Which, in any case, doesn't give us free reign to "bend the law" for convenience sake. The best way to tell if we are on the right track is if our conscience is clear. If we feel the twinge of guilt, then, ethical or not, we are on the wrong side of God. 
What leads a "good" man into the mire of ethical behavior, after all? When he starts his practice, say, as a lawyer, he defends the right in all things. But later, he sees that others of his profession use plea bargain­ing, compromises and various tricks of ethics to make their task easier. The conscience is dulled and, while the man is no longer doing "right," he is still being ethi­cal. 
Life would be so much simpler if there were no stan­dards of ethics, just the Ten Commandments, as the judge down south had hanging in his courtroom. Right would be rewarded and wrong punished, and those of us caught in the middle wouldn't have to worry about why the world is such a mess. 
Julie Ferraro is a local administrative-assistant. Her column appears every other Wednesday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe 
--------------~---~---~-----~------------~---~-----~ 
page 10 Wednesday, March 4, I 998



ACCENT 
,


r1n 

rea 




IUaOPI4M Y4C4TIOM 

By Jackie Hensler Accent Writer 

S
pring break is a time to lind low airfare prices to destinations like London, Paris, Florence and Rome. These deals are much like what you would lind concerning packaged rates to the Bahamas or Cancun. In essence, you won't lind it hard to manage a budget while traveling. 
So when was the last time you stepped into a museum to view Michelangelo's David? How intrigued are you to set foot on new soil? European cities have much to offer the American visitor: a unique history prevalent in each city of every country, a diverse selection of cuisine you probably don't entertain every day, and the ambiance of local pubs, bars and discotechs, to name a few. 
Florence is known as the city of art. Home to Michelangelo's David, Giotto's Madonna, as well as infamous weekend markets, Florence is the very essence of beauty, elegance and artistic style. 
Rome. The city of Caesars, romance, "La dolce vita" and languorous sunny days. It is also the city of endless art, of churches and museums, of fountain-splashed piazzas and majestic monuments. If mild. sunny weath­er in the middle of March isn't enough to persuade you, the friendly Italian people and rolling night life may be. Of course, you must not forget to throw your eoins into the "Trevi Fountain" to ensure a speedy return. 
London is an impressive sight of museums and world­renowned theaters. London boasts sites sueh as Buckingham Palace and St. Paul's Cathedral, along with a busy night life. 
A dose four hour chunnel ride leads you to Paris. A week's stay will enable you to explore Paris at your own pace. Famous sights include the Arc de Triomphe, Place de Ia Concorde, Notre-Dame Cathedral, and of course the Eiffel Tower. You can visit the Mona Lisa, or you can walk along the Champs Elysees and window shop. There is so much to do in this city known fur its elegance, "chic," and style, that as a foreigner you won't feel left out. 
Are you ready to experienee a first hand look at the people, culture, and life of a country as a tourist? You have one splendid week to enjoy all the fascination of a European eulture, so make the most of it. 


'li!OILBv..iii~ l.iis-~~-­
~~~11DPBv..iii ~,
-~ ~n~~~ ~ ,_ ~~-~~ ~1 ,~~~ ~~-~ 

By MICHELLE BARTON Accent Writer 
I
n case you haven't quite gott(m around to your Abs of 
Steel work-out as often as you had planned, and aren't in the mood to head down to Florida to romp in your favorite pair of surf shorts and loose t-shirt among endless bikinis and 6-pack stomachs, another option is to vacate to the slopes. 
Skiing has numerous advantages that few other activities can claim. Under all that fleece and Gortex ski apparel, who is going to see that you have an addiction to Papa John's bread sticks or those brownies without nuts that the cafeteria has begun to tempt us with? 
Skiing will even help make up for those days of sitting sedentary in the library studying for midterms. One hour of intense skiing can burn up to about 500 calories. 
Few people truly look good when bundled up in scarves, hats. and ski pants. Most look like some distant relative of the Pillsbury dough boy. Of course, there are always those annoying few who can pull ofT the look. 
Which brings us to ski instructors: one of the many added perks of skiing. Beginners and experienced skiers alike can always use a lesson from one. For those who have never skied before, it's amazing how muc~ one can learn and. improve in one short week. At the beginning, the rope tow may seem insurmountable, but with a few lessons and a week of practice you may lind it comfortable sailing down the intermediate runs. 

Sophomore Martha Gibney will be going to Crested Butte in Southwestern Colorado. Besides skiing, Gibney is looking forward to learning to snowboard with her friends even though she says, "My parents think snow boarding is a grunge, college age thing to do." 
Before coming back to Notre Dame after break to live through the rest of skiing season in this vast cornfield void of mountains, it might be smart to get in some time on the slopes. If the past mild South Bend winte_r has left you crav­ing more snow, spring break is the ideal time to get your yearly dose. From the West's Mount Hood and Lake Tahoe resorts to New England's Killington, good skiing can be found within driving distance of most areas of the nation. 
Besides all this, skiing is good exercise, great fun and quite an adrenaline rush. A week of skiing is the perfect release for that built up stress and tension that a hectic col­lege life brings. So if you don't have any plans for spring break yet, grab a few friends or pack up the family in the Suburban and head Op to the mountains! 

By ARWEN DICKEY Wednesday Night Television Correspondent 
Last week in the world of true friends, Noah denies raping Valerie. However, he must admit to Donna that he did have sex with Valerie who had roolies in her blood. No one seems sure if Val is telling the truth except David, who postpones his rt)hearsals with the band to stay with her. Against Josh's wishes, Noah decides he doesn't want a fancy lawyer. 
Kelly thinks that people are capable of anything 
and decides that Val might have made up the rape story. Kelly comforts Donna and reassures her that Noah is not capable of rape. However. when Noah shows up at the beach house, Donna freaks out and tells him to leavo because she is mad that ho had sex with Valerie even il'it wasn't rape. 
Steve thinks that Val took the roofies on purpose (if anyone really did this, they would need serious help) which causes Steve and David to get into a shoving fight. Brandon donsn't know what to think. 
Tlw D.A's office decides not to file a suit because of insufficient evidence. Val decides to stay at David's house because she does not fee1 welcome in hers. I think that may be an understatement. Val starts to go a little crazy and tells David that the. only reason they are together is for sex, but David denies it. 
When Noah and Brandon get into a confrontation about the problem, Noah is upset when he says. "I gotta tell you I didn't do it." Brandon replies, "You've done plPnty." In a very good comeback, Noah says, "nothing you haven't done.'' Good point, Noah! Valerie decides to file a civil suit for $10 million in damages. Noah doesn't want to settle because he doesn't want to lopk guilty. 
David and Donna get in a confrontation about the situation even though they had hoped it wouldn't get in the way of their friendship. It ends up that David is on Valerie's side and Donna is on Noah's side. Big shocker! Steve and Kelly give Valerie a hard time about only wanting money, but Brandon claims that she is still welcome. Josh decides to talk to Val and tells her the lawsuit is unnecessary and that he will give her $200,000 to drop the suit. David tells Valerie that if she settles, everyone will think that she made the rape story up. 

David is in trouble because he is missing band rehearsals and the company might replace him so David decides to leave Valerie's side and go to his recording session. Valerie doesn't e~actly accept Steve's peace offering. Valerie rejects Noah's offer and Noah says he is withdrawing it anyway. Valerie tells Noah that it is not about the money and that she wants Noah on the stand under oath. 
In the meantime, Donna is taking her addictive pain pills. Donna has to design a clothing line at work and she can't concentrate with everything on her mind and she takes more pills. Josh told her about pills that counteract her pain pills' effects, and act as a jurnp·start so a person won't be so sluggish. lie provides her with some that help her out. Donna starts to call Josh and asks him for more pills while not talking to Noah when he answers tlm phone. Donna gets rt~ally addicted and throws a fit when she can't find the pills and yells at Kelly. Later, Donna goes to the clinic to apologize to Kelly and steals more pills out of' the medicine cabinet. This just makes me reminisce about David's drug addiction and him stealing mediei!Hl from his father, a dentist. 
In another side story, Steve and Brandon talk with Tammy, the mystery woman police officer and her partner Glenn. Brandon and St(we decide to ride along with them for a story for the Beverly Beat. On the ride, Glenn chases a thief suspect and hits him with a nightstick, claiming the thief was high. Brandon is not happy with this unnecessary roughness. Tammy tells Brandon and Steve that the suspeet was not the real thief and begs Brandon not to rta1 the story. She claims that GICJn will get more counseling, and since he's a few months from retirement, a story could ruin that. Brandon agrees not to run the story. 
TONIGHT: The civil trial occurs. Valerie is asked if she and Noah were ever sexu­al partners and she still claims that it is rape. Valerie is torn apart with questions -about her sexual history, which is not a short list. Brandon claims he is not against Valerie because he doesn't take sides, but she disagrees. Donna tells Noah that she won't come to court anymore. The verdict is decided. 



ACCENT

Wednesday, March 4, 1998 page 11 

. 
, , 



esttnattens 

By DESIREE HOLLIS Accent Writer 
W
hat more do you want from spring break than rest and relaxation? Thift is exactly what you'll get if you're going home for break, as many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are. 
Imagine all of the fun you'll have: You'll get home­cooked meals. Your mom will try to make all of your favorites because she missed you so much, and she feels bad that you actually have to eat what they serve in the dining hall. You'll get all of your laundry done. No more lugging your sacks and crates to the base­ments. And if you're really nice, it will probably be folded for you, too. 
You'll be able to go out with your high school bud­dies. And you won't tire of them, because you won't see them that much.•It seems every other college actu­ally has its break in the spring and not in late winter like we do. 
Since break is only one week, your parents and sib­lings will dote on you. Once again, they will find you 


A
By DESIREE HOLLIS see some babes!" Other students proclaimed the Accent Writer need to tan and rid themselves of the lovely pale translucency that inevitably comes with wearing fter a South Bend winter. a multitude Notre long sleeves and pants for months on end. Be Dame and Saint Mary's students pack up and warned: Pale skin burns easily! Don't forget the take to the beach for Spring Break, even though the sunblock. dates fall more near the end of winter than the Other students wanted to surf, swim, and "make spring. This year. many of us are going to Florida, little shapes and sandcastles in the sand." Saint Mexico, Texas and California to enjoy a short Mary's student Ruth Ann Geis said that she is going reprieve from the cold. to three beaches in her native Florida, and will be 
The most popular beach spots this break are those able to see "foreign guys in thongs!" I know it's where MTV will be taping its "Global Spring Break." gross, but these types come out in droves for our If you're heading to Negri!, Jamaica; South Padre, viewing pleasure. Texas; Panama City Beach, Florida; Cancun, Another reason for beach travel is that it is an Mexico; or Oahu, Hawaii; you will undoubtedly inexpensive vacation option. All the beachgoer become immortalized in MTV Spring Break History. requires is a swimsuit, towel and a pail and shovel Make sure you call up all your buddies and watch to truly enjoy the experience. Well, maybe a couple yourselves on March 20-22. of quarters for the parking meter. 
But even if you won't be headed to any of those So to all of you who are traveling to the beach, get places ( I know a lot of you were planning on Negri!, some numbers, get crazy, take pictures of every­right?). the beach appears to be a preferred desti­thing (but maybe not of the guy in the thong), and nation. When asked why the beach had such allure make the rest of us feel bad when you come back to so many, students had similar responses. with a tan. Just be sure let us know if you'll be on 
The exclamation of guys and girls alike was "to TV. 
interesting and enjoy being regaled with your college stories. You might actually want to talk to them, and they to you. You won't be forced to do your old chores, like taking out the trash and cleaning your room. 
You'll be able to sleep in. For one blissful week, you won't ·be awakened to the sound of your roommate fumbling in the dark when he or she gets home. You won't experience the hell of awakening at dawn to make it to your eight o'clock class. 
You'll be able to vegetate in front of the television. You'll be able to watch all of those interesting shows you miss during class, like "Saved by the Bell," and the soaps. 
When asked about the best part of going home for break, a repeated response among many underclass­men was "being able to see my boyfriend/girlfriend from back home." For a week, at least the phone bill will go down. 
When I think of going home for break, I am reminded of that oft-repeated quote: "Home sure is a nice place to visit, but I'd never want to live there." Enjoy your week-long vi:>it home, because summer is coming fast. 



Last week, Charlie and Claudia talk to see what is bothering Claudia so much lately. Charlie decides she needs to talk with a psychologist even though Claudia gets upset when Charlie starts to not feel welL Claudia starts to ignore Cha,rlie, Claudia tells her counselor that she is afraid she is a burden to Charlie; :t!:t 
Claudia asks Charlie for more driving help and they have a nice day together, but Claudia gets emotional when Charlie says that Claudia can get her own car when she gets her license. Claudia lies to her counselor and tells her that she had a good time with Charlie. Then. Claudia tells Charlie that the counselor suggested thatshe spend less time with Charlie and more time with her friends which is clearly a lie. 
Annie is a complete mess and so is her apartment. Bailey finds out that Sarah gave Annie an extension on her rent and that she has been taking a cab instead of driving her car. At 3 a.m. Annie knocks on Bailey's door because she locked herself out of her own apartment while taking out the trash. Bailey looks in her trash bag and finds empty liquor bottles. 
Claudia even asks Annie to take her driving because Sarah is not around, but Bailey won't let Claudia go anywhere with Annie because he knows Annie's been drinking. Annie does not show up at the AA meeting for her two. year sobriety birthday. Bailey confronts Annie in her apartment where she is drinking and com­plaining about her life not getting better. Annie pressures Bailey to take a drink, but he says no and says he can't deal with her. Annie visits Bailey.atthe restaurant to apologize and tells Bailey that she slipped because he wasn't around much any­more, and sh k,iBail lis A:rirti~'tb.at she can't ma.kf) him the cen~ ter of her life. Annie getlfmad and tells him thafhe is the one who wanted to he a part ofher life in the firstplace. 
Julia decides'to take Bailey's English class ~.ven though he has dropped out. Griffin tells her...~~t it. y, ~ut h~j~obviom;lyupset ahoW it. Julia uses Bailey's name in class and an . ... questions. Ju~ia go~s out with people from class and tells Griffin that she wishes she was in college. Julia stays up late reading and keeps Griffin up. Julia tell~ hlm the .thesis of her paper which is about cheating. This freaks Griffm out ..·. · u~e he is't little toofdendly with Rosalie atwork. They went out late Qrk .. eat and.kissedinthe restaurant. Rosalie wrote on the place mat ''s . .a,ppening/' . ·· · 
Julia does sowell on her· paper for English class that the teacher thinks she got it off of the intetnet because Bailey· h,ad done so poorly on his midterms and there 
was.n() way.  ·  ~·  ork oqhe ~ame penmn. Julia explains that she is tak­ 
ing th(;) class . .···  ··... ·.. s ..  ey dropped ouLTh,e teacher tells her that she is not  
-allowed in class peca  .  e is not registered. Instead, he wants her to be. his  

research assist<l,nt and att~nd his. class for minimum wage. Griffin is not overjoyed by the job offer put teps ¥ulia to takeitwhich she already did. 
Julia borro ift'il1'~j~:tcketandthe place mat from the restaurant falls out, and Julia sees it ..··. has ci) uedhis'little afiab: with Rosalie by kissing her in the back room of he, shop. H s her that he can't. come to her house but grabs her and kisses her anyway, agreeing to come to her place. Griffin goes to Rosealie's house. and agrees that they will "just talk." Does anyone believe that? I don't think 
so. . ........ ·· '.'Vi:');W•< ·. . 
TONIGHT: The last episode of the season until mid-ApriL The big moment of truth: Will Charlie live or die? Charlie gets his test results back and finds out if the radiation wor](e.d. · 
This will be my last article of the semester. Thank you to all of my faithful read­ers and your obsessive addiction to these shows. May Beverly Hills and Party of Five live in our memories forever. 

------------------------~----------~~--~---------------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 4, 1998 
Bulls bury Nuggets; Sonics end Heat streak 

Associa1ed Press 
CHICAGO 
Michael .Jordan scored 30 points and Scottie Pippen added 24 as the Chicago Bulls strug­gled for most of three quarters before routing the NB;\'s worst team, the Denver Nuggets, I 18-90 Tuesday night. 
The Bulls have as many championships in the 1990s--live--as the Nuggets have victo­ries this season. 
Dennis Hodman had 17 rebounds but was benched by Bulls coach Phil Jackson late in the third quarter after Denver rookie Danny Fortson overpowered him on three consecu­tive post moves, cutting Chicago's lead to 75­72. 
The Bulls followed with a 28-8 run to go ahead by 23 points, with Jordan and Scott Burrell seoring eight points each. 
Fortson. who came in averaging only 8.7 points, had a career-high 26 points and LaPhonso Ellis added 20 for woeful Denver. 
The Nuggets (5-54) are on pace to finish with the NBA's worst record ever, currently 9-73 by the 1972-73 Philadelphia 76ers. They have lost 12 straight games and are 1-29 on the road. 1-23 against Eastern Conference teams and 0-11 against Central Division oppo­nents. 
Chicago (44-16) has won IO of its last 11 games. The two-time defending champion stayed within two games of Seattle in the race for the league's best record. 

Pippen's 3-pointer put the Bulls ahead 42­30 early in the second quarter, and it seemed his team would roll. But the Nuggets respond­ed with an 11-2 run that featured three layups by Fortson, and the Bulls led only 59­56 at halftime despite 21 points by Jordan and 15 rebounds by Rodman. 
Seattle 97 

Miami 91 

MIAMI 
Gary Payton snapped a shooting slump with a deep 3-pointer in overtime as the Seattle SuperSonics ended Miami's 10-game winning streak with a 97-91 victory over the Heat. 
Payton, who was only 3-fo~l3 for 12 points, hit a 27 -footer as the shot cTock wound down to make it 91-89 with 2:39 to play. 
A minute later, Payton drove the lane and passed to Detlef Schrempf for a baseline jumper. Hersey Hawkins finished off the Heat with a hook shot to make it 95-89 with 21.2 seconds left. 
The Sonics rallied from an 83-78 deficit in the final five minutes of regulation as Miami missed its last 10 shots in the fourth. Seattle won its fifth straight and ended the longest winning streak in the NBA. . 
Hawkins and Schrempf each had 18 points for Seattle. ~lonzo Mourning and Vashon Lenard each scored 20 for Miami. 

KAT The Nuggets' Tony Battie (right) battles with Chicago's Toni Kukoc for the ball as Denver continues to struggle with finding a way to win. 
: 
Associa1cd Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 
Pau I Kariya. still bothered by throbbing headaches from a eoncussion he received a month ago, eould miss the r.est of the NIIL season. 
Kariya, a left wing for the Anaheim Mighty Ducks, has trouble remembering eonver­sations and concentrating for periods of longer than one hour. the result of a blow delivered by Chieago's Gary Suter in a Feb. 1 game. 
"Somfl days I feel OK and other days I still feel bad ... I don't know what to think," Kariya said in Tuesday's edi­tions of the Daily Breeze of Torrance. 
"It's like I have eobwebs in my head. I thought the symp­toms would have cleared by now. I thought I'd be able to come back after a few games, but now ... I don't know." 
Mighty Ducks team doctor Craig Milhouse said there is a real possibility Kariya could miss the team's final 23 regu­lar-season games. 
"We're not worried or con­cerned about trying to get him back for the playoffs," he said. "We're taking no risks. This is very serious." 
Milhouse said before Kariya will be cleared to play, the team will get a second opin­ion. 
ST. LOUIS 
Pavol Demitra had a goal and two assists as the St. Louis con­tinued an offensive surge with a 5-3 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks on Tuesday night. 
The Blues have been making things comfortable for Jamie McLennan. the replacement in goal for the injured Grant Fuhr, who has a nine-game unbeaten streak (7-0-2). 
St. Louis has scored 16 goals in his three starts since Fuhr went down for a month with a knee injury in the first game fol­lowing the Olympic break. 
Not too comfortable, however. McLennan faced two 5-on-3 Chicago advantages in the third period for a total of 2:14. 
St. Louis, which got three power-play goals, has won live of six overall. Demitra has two goals and six assists in his last four games. 

Geoff Courtnall added two assists in his l,OOOth NHL game for St. Louis, which played its first home game sinee Feb. 7. A crowd of -20,415, the ninth sell­out in the last 10 gamps, watched the Blues raise their home record to 19-8-5--sec­ond-best in the league. 
The Blackhawks' Chris Chelios drew 32 minutes in penalties -­an unsportsmanlike conduct call, a game misconduct and two1 0-minute game miscon­ducts, near the end of the sec­ond period. 
Chelios argued with referee Bill McCreary that he was pulled down on the goal that put the Blues ahead 5-3. 
Tony Amonte had an unassist­ed goal and an assist for Chicago, which is in a 1-4-1 slump. 
Dcmitra knocked in the rebound of a point shot from AI Macinnis at 4:35 of tho first period for his 19th goal. Dubinsky tied it at 16:03 with a. weak shot from the slot that trickled between McLennan's pads. 
Suter's fluttering shot got past McLennan to givn the Blackhawks the lead with a power-play goal at 45 seconds of the second period. Bergevin tied it at 7:45 when he knocked in his own rebound after a failed dearing attompt by goalie .Jeff Hackett and Seott Pellerin put the Blues ahead at 10:12 when he ended up alone in front of the net after a faceofl'. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. ar 1he Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nex1-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per charae~er per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edi1 all classifieds for content wi1hoU1 issuing retunds. 

NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! 
Mon -Thur 7:30am-Midnight 
Fri 7:30am -7:00pm 
Sat  Noon  -6:00pm  
Sun  Noon  -Midnight  
CALL 631-COPY  

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: blue and red backpack on 3rd floor Lafortune. Reward offered. Call Tim@ 4014 

FOR RENT 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW &FALL.272­6551 
APT. New Buffalo, MI. Prof or Grad Student who commutes between Chicago & NO Non-smoker pre!. No pets. 1-800-265-1682. 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
New 5 bdrm, 2 bath home with LR, FR. outdoor deck, & 2 car garage within walking distance of campus. Has NC, gas, heat, stove, refrig, G/0, DNJ, W & D. $1500 per mo. 232­4527. 

TICKETS 
For Sale Clint Black Fort Wayne 3/14 Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows 272-7233 


PERSONAL 
HEY SMC STUDENTS Saint Mary's VISA program 
(Volunteers In Support of Admission) is calling out to all women to share their love of SMC with prospective students. We need SMC students to return to their high schools over Spring Break and talk about their col­lege experience with students. We are also in need of campus tour guides. Interested? Call the SMC admission office x4587! 

...Attn: Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Questioning and Supportive Students, Faculty & Staff... 
ORIGINAL Student-run group to hold Gen. Mtg. & Elections Thurs. 3/5 8PM. 
Call Info-line for details: 236-9661 
SAINT PATRICK'S DAY. Make plans, buy tickets while you can for The Celtic Fiddle Festival. Tickets at LaFortune. 
Why fencer NICOLE MUSTILLI should get more attention from Observer Sports: 
• 
Undefeated (20-0) in the Midwestern Championships 

• 
Embarrassed her epee rival, Marta­something 

• 
The most team-focused NO fencer 


I bet I get blamed for this . 
RENT 1628 PORT AGE '98-'99 ! 234-3831 I 273-0482 
But Aquaman, you cannot marry a women without gills, you are from two different Woooooorldsl 
looking for a ride to New Jersey over break. will help with gas/driving. Matt x3485 
Oh, I have wasted my life. 
EMERGENCY!!! PLEASE HELP-NEED A RIDE TO MINNESOTA FOR SPRING BREAK!!!! (WILL PAY FOR GAS)­-4276 
thanks for the tulips, mark!! love, h. 

Found:  A Jack Russel Terrier on Feb.  
27. If yours, please call 634-3331  FOR SALE  CLASS L  OF  . 9 8  Good Luck at NCAA qualifiers Stills! Love, Jen & Magda  one more day of this office!!  
WANTED  Sick of being stuck on campus?  A s  SENIOR  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and bab­ sometimes you feel like a nut  
1988 Pontiac GrandAm LE  s  WEEK  bling brooks in summer. Snuggles,  actually, i always do.  
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  call Holly 289-2887 $1800obo  skisuits and a toasty fireplace in win­ 
please call 219-271-0633  0  ter. Love and joy for your baby all year  hac, i'll be thinking of you on thurs!  
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with  F  IS  long. Happy, caring professional cou­ can't wait for our big kings!  
Soccer officials wanted for the spring  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  ple would love to provide a new born  love. mac  
semester. Great Pay! Please call John  frame. New, never used, still in plas­ 9  COMING  with love, joy and security. Call Ed  
in Rec Sports at 1-6100 before Spring  tic. $225 219-862-2082  8  and Ellen at 1-800-484-7011 Pin  Gee, this production gig isn't that bad.  
Break .  #4523  
..  

~ ---------------------~~­

Wednesday, March 4, I 998 page 13 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
NCAA expands probe of Purdue program 
A<sociated Press 
WEST lAFAVETTE 

The NCAA is widening its investigation of Purdue's basket­ball program, looking into possi­ble recruiting violations and improper conquct by boosters. 
Purdue assistant coach Frank Kendrick admitted more than a year ago that he lied when he denied giving a recruit a ride from the arena to a hotel. 
.Jamaal Davis was in West Lafayette for an AAU game in .June 1996 and announced his college choice that night. But the ride with Kendrick was during a period in which coaches may not contact recruits. 
Kendrick, who initially denied meeting with Davis, was repri­manded. fined an undisclosed sum and forbidden to recruit off­campus for 10 days. 
Purdue on Monday confirmed the NCAA has expanded its initial inquiry into a full investigation, including accusations of improp­er payments by boosters. The university has until May 19 to respond. 
Another NCAA investigation of the Purdue women's program in 1995 disclosed 11 secondary infractions involving giving rides to recruits. 
In the current investigation, the NCAA identifies Kendrick as the one who arranged the contacts between the athletes and Purdue boosters. 
"I don't pretend to be a perfect person, but I have never deliber­ately broken a rule or tried to gain an unfair advantage in recruiting," Kendrick said. "I have too much respect for Purdue University, for coach [Gene] Keady and for my own family to do anything that will embarrass them. 
"I don't know why these allega­tions have been made, but I'm confident that when the truth comes out, everyone will know that I have done nothing wrong." 
In December 1996, athletic director Morgan Burke said Keady and Kendrick inadvertent­ly violated NCAA rules by making 15 telephone calls to Davis, who later signed with the Boilermakers. 

§JF)rrfirn~ IB3rr~~Ik  I o years experience Master Designer  
§JF)~ctfi~ll  Vivian Jackson  
Relaxer & Style  $55  
Designer Haircuts  $26  

With these services: free conditioner $5 value 

r----------------------,
1 Bring in this Ad to register for drawings 
1 

1 $50 gift certificate 1 Icoupon: Name Phone I 
L----------------------~
APPOINTMENTS & WALK-INS WELCOME 
272-0312 272-8471 ST RD 23 I TERRACE LANE 

ACROSS FROM GREENWOOD SHOPPING CENTER 
What's the meaning of this ad? 
Before you ponder the fundamental principle of this logical question, consider this: Fazoli's features 12 menu items priced under $4, including Ravioli, Fettuccine Alfredo and Spaghetti. Meaning, in theory, you won't need a student loan to eat here. 

All those students interested in applying for the position of Judicial Council President or 
one of two Vice President positions please pick up an application in the Student \ Government Office (2"d Floor Lafortune). Applications are due by March 11 at 5:00 p.m. 
Brought to you by: 




sw.t 

W. Tennis 
continued from page 20 
defeated Baritot 6-2, 6-4. 
Freshman Michelle Dasso improved to 10-1 on the dual match season with her 6-2, 6-2 victory over Tracy Zobrist. Marisa Velasco defeated Marjon Copier, 7-5, 6-3 at third singles. Velasco had a perfect 4-0 singles record during the week. 
Included among the six losses to Kansas were three, three-set singles matches that could have easily gone in favor of the Irish. At first singles, Kansas's Kylie Hunt and Notre Dame's Jennifer Hall staged a classic match between two of the top players in the country. 
Hunt, who two years ago was runner up in the NCAA singles championship, won the first set 6-4 before Hall rallied to take the second set by a 6-4 margin. The third set went back and forth before Hunt finally scored a 7-6 tie-break victory. 
Tiffany Gates and Kelly Zalinski also lost tight three-set matches. Gates lost to Christine Sues 1-6, 6-1, 6-4, while Zalinski was defeated by Julia· Sidorova 6-1, 4-6, 7-5. 
While the Irish lost three, three-set matches, two other sin­gles players scored decisive straight-set victories. Second sin­gles player Dasso again proved that she is one of the top players in the country with a 7-5, 6-1 victory over Christine Sim. 
Velasco also looked impressive beating Kansas' No. 3 player, Kris Sell, 6-3, 6-4. In doubles, the team of Kelley Olson and Kelly Zalinski scored Notre Dame's lone victory. 
On Friday, the Irish hosted Syracuse and once again proved that they are the top team in the Big East with an 8-1 victory. Five of the six singles players scored straight-set victories led by Hall, Dasso and Velasco. 
Hall won 6-2, 6-1 over Nicole Strnadova while Dasso defeated Miki Kanemitsu, 6-1, 6-2. Velasco beat Syracuse's Michelle Nevelkosuka, 6-3, 6-3. · 
Notre ·Dame beat Midwest rival Minnesota on Saturday morning by an 8-1 margin. The decisive score is not indicative of the match. 
Two singles matches lasted three sets. Hall finally defeated Minnesota's Nora Sauska, 7-5, 4­6, 7-5. Velasco lost the first set, 6-4 to Kim Simonsen before win­ning the final two sets 6-2, 7-5. 
Rea] lfali ® an. Rea] Fast"' 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 W McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 

§J])rriliiD.~ IB3rrcad §J])®~il&Il  ask for European Tech. Sorina  
Bikini wax  $2QOO  
Leg wax  $2QOO  
Basic Facial  $3500  

Acne treatment/with facial $4500 
These prices valid with Sorina only 

r----------------------,
1 Bring in this Ad to register for drawings 1 1 $50 gift certificate 1 lcoupon: Name Phone I 
L----------------------~
APPOINTMENTS & WALK-INS WELCOME 
272-0312 272-S-171 
ST RD 23 I TERRACE LANE ACROSS FROM GREENWOOD SHOPPING CENTER 



• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

UConn wins fifth straight title 
The Saint Mary's College ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING

.­
for women with a baccalaureate degree as of May 1998 in any major other than Nursing 
• Earn aB.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months 
• Program begins May 26, 1998 
-~­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
for more information, please contact the Admission Office of (219)2844581 FAX (219)2844716 • http://www.sainlmarys.edu E-Mail: admission@sointmarys.edu 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98-'99 School Year. Summer Rentals June-August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

.';,tf+,. 
•
Furnished/central air •24 ho~rlau1tldr 

•
All utilities included 


•Flexible 
4(&!: @f••.
•Indoor 
pool/spa 


•Shuttle to
•Tennis, 
volleyball, & 

•More info:basketball courts 
• Mon-Fri 9~5 Sat 



Associated Press 
Although Cincinnati Heds All­Star shortstop Barry Larkin doesn't have to worry about his throws being affected, a sore left shoulder has the team con­cerned. 
Doctors say the pain in his non-throwing shoulder might be caused by an inflammation as Larkin works himself into shape, but they want to be sure. Team physician Timothy Kremchek was to examine MRI findings late Tuesday. 
The 1995 National League MVP underwent an exam Monday on his left shoulder after experiencing spasms in the muscles behind the shoul­der and neck. 
"We're hopeful it's not too bad," Reds trainer Greg Lynn said. "It was kind of a gradual thing." 
Larkin, 33, said the problem might have occurred because he has been swinging a heavier bat, a 40-ounce model, as he tries to work into shape. 
The Heds had planned to use Larkin sparingly this spring. He missed all but 73 games last season because of various leg problems and had surgery in September on his Achilles' ten­dor. 
He said he has no lingering effects from that surgery. Before the shoulder problem, he appeared to be back to his old self. 
Manager Jack McKeon said he will proceed with caution and give Larkin time to get loosened up. 
"We don't want to take a chance," McKeon said. 
The Heds didn't do so well on the field, either -losing 3-2 to the Phillies. 
Desi Helaford went 2-for-2, and drove in all three runs for Philadelphia. Helaford's single in the seventh inning off loser Curt Lyons drove in Bobby Abreu with the decisive run. Abreu went 2-for-2 and scored twice. 
Brook Fordyce, who went 3­for-4, drove in the Cincinnati runs in the game at.Clearwater, Fla. 
Marlins 5, Braves 1 
The Marlins, in the first meeting between the two teams since Game 6 of the National League Championship Series last season, hammered out 14 hits -including two apiece from Mark Kotsay and Charles Johnson. 
F i v e 
pitchers combined on a six­hitter as Florida continued 

r---------~----------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 4, 1998 

its mastery over Atlanta. In addition to beating the Braves in the postseason, the Marlins won eight of 12 regular-season games in 1997. 
Chipper Jones homer for Atlanta in the game at Melbourne, Fla. 
Devil Rays 12, Indians 5 
Wade Boggs had two hits and drove in a run to lead Tampa Bay's 14-hit attack at St. Petersburg, Fla. The 39-year­old Boggs had an HBI single that snapped a 2-2 tie in the fifth inning, and his replace­ment, Bobby Smith, doubled twice and drove in two runs for the American League expan­
sion team. Scott Morgan hit a two-run homer for the Indians. 
Cubs 6, Rockies 2 
Henry Hodriguez -one of seven players acquired by Chicago in the offseason -had three hits, including a two-run homer, and Mark Clark pitched three strong innings at Tucson, Ariz. 
Clark allowed a run in three innings. 
Bookie Todd Helton, the replacement for Andres Galarraga at first base, contin­ued his hot spring for Colorado. He went 1-for-3 with a triple, and is batting .533 (8-for-15). 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. Evon without Nykesha Sales, Connecticut is still the best team in the Big East Conference. 
No. 3 Connecticut captured its fifth consecu­tive Big East Tournament and its lOth straight NCAA Tournament berth by playing as a team in Sales' absence to beat Hutgers 67-58 on Tuesday night. 
Thn injured Sales watched from the stands, even changing her a red T -shirt to a white one when the Huskies (31-2) fell behind by four points at halftime. But as the final buzzer sounded, Connecticut's all-time leading scorer joined teammates on the sidelines and exchanged hugs and tears. 
Despite losing at home for the first time in 13 games, Hutgers (20-9) is expected to get an at­large berth to the NCAA Tournament, its first sinen 1994 and first since C. Vivian Stringer boeame coach thrne years ago. 
All five Huskies starters scored in double lig­ures. Amy Duran had 17, Hita Williams 16, Svetlana Abrosimova 13, Paige Sauer 11 and Stacy llansmeyer 10. Sauer also had 14 rebounds. 
Natasha Pointer had 19 points and Linda 
Miles 13 for Hutgers, which hit 11 of 34 shots from the field in the second half. UConn was 13 of 24. 
This title didn't come easy for Connecticut, which was considered vulnerable after Sales ruptured her Achilles tendon 10 days ago. 
The top-seeded Huskies (31-2) had to rally from a halftime deficit to overcome a Hutgers' team that beat Connecticut here a month ago with Sales in the lineup. 
The difference in this game was Connecticut was able to lind open shots in the second half and it controlled the boards, 44-25 for the game. The Huskies also contested every shot by Hutgers. 
The big run for Connecticut came early in the second half after Miles hit a baseline jumper for a 34-31 Hutgers' lead. The Huskies responded with a 12-2 that featured points from four play­ers, led by Abrosimova. The talented Hussian freshman had a 3-pointer and a jumper, the lat­ter giving Connecticut a 43-36 lead with 11:59 to go. 
Hutgers got to within three points twice, the last time at 52-49 with 3:56 to go on two free throws by Tomora Young. However, Connecticut scored the next seven points, including Duran's 3-pointer with 2:34 to go, to ice the win. 
• SPRING TRAINING 


Reds concerned with Larkin's sore shoulder 
• The Observer/Joe stark 
Stacy Hansmeyer and UConn took home another Big East championship . Wednesday, March 4, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Doby, 3 others, heading to Hall of Fame 
Major Leagues' second black player honored 
by veterans 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

More than a half-century ago, Larry Doby walked into a Cleveland clubhouse where some teammates would not even shake his hand. 
On Tuesday, he got a much warmer welcome from the Hall of Fame. 
Doby, the first black player in the American League, was an easy choice as the Veterans Committee voted in its full limit of four new members. 
Former AL president Lee MacPhail, Negro leagues star "Bullet" Joe Rogan and turn­of-the-century shortstop "(;orgeous" George Davis also \\nrc elected. 
Induction ceremonies will be July 26 in Cooperstown, N.Y. Don Sutton will be enshrined, too, having been chosen by the Baseball Writers Assoeiation of America in January. 
"You look back 51 years ago and you never thought this type of situation would come about," Doby said by telephone from southern California, where he was visiting former Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher Don Newcombe. 
"You think about some of the changes that have happened in baseball," he said. "It's a feel­ing of struggle in the past. It's a feeling of a certain amount of relief. It's a great feeling." 
Doby, a seven-time All-Star outfielder who went on to become a manager and an executive, had come close before. The last two years, in fact, he was at a Tampa hotel, hoping and waiting for a joy­ous call that never came. 
Doby, 73 and undergoing chemotherapy for a cancerous kidney that was removed in October, is a special assistant to AL president Gene Budig. 
"Few have done so much for 
the game," said Budig, who 
appointed Doby and was pre­
sent in Tampa when the 
results were announced. 
The 13-man Veterans panel, which included Ted Williams, Stan Musial and Yogi Berra, does not announce its vote totals. It took 75 percent for election, meaning 10 votes, and the choice of Doby was described by one committee member as a simple one. 
Doby did not always have it so easy, however. 
On July 5, 1947, just 11 weeks after Jackie Robinson broke baseball's color barrier, Doby joined the Indians. Though he would go on to hit .283 with 253 home runs and 969 RBis in a big league career that lasted through 1959, his locker room recep­tion that first day was chilly. 
"Very tough," Doby recalled. ''I'd never faced any circum­stances like that. Teammates were lined up and some would greet you and some wouldn't. You could deal with it, but it was hard." 
Doby was honored by the Indians during All-Star week­end festivities last July at Jacobs Field. 
MacPhail, 80, became part of history with his election. His dad, Larry, was already in the Hall, making the MacPhails the first father-son tandem to be so honored. 
MacPhail was general man­ager of the New York Yankees and Baltimore Orioles, and was the AL president from 1974-83. 

MacPhail's father was presi­dent of the Yankees and Dodgers. His son, Andy, is president of the Chicago Cubs, and two other sons were involved in the game. His grandson, also named Lee, is scouting director for the Cleveland Indians -making them a four-generation base­ball clan. 
"Baseball has been great to our entire family," the elder MacPhail said from Delray Beach, Fla. "Obviously, this is a tremendous feeling. It's a culmination of a lot of years." 
Rogan, who died in 1967, pitched and played infield and outfield for the Kansas City Monarchs from 1920 to 1938. He had a 113-45 record as a pitcher and a .343 lifetime bat­ting average. 
Davis, who died in 1940, led the National League with 134 RBis for the New York Giants in 1897. He played for four teams during 20 seasons, including the 1906 White Sox in the World Series, and hit .295. 


Hey, you don't do summer for fun. You do it to catch up. To get ahead. But you knew that. So if it's time to take care of business and you're heading home to Chicago for the summer, do it at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Our summer session's got more courses than ever and since we're a four-year research university, chances are they'll transfer easily back to your school. It also doesn't hurt that tuition is a great deal and applying is easy. So, what are you waiting for? Call us. Send e-mail. We'll send you what you need to get started. Come on, you can take it. 


For information about the UIC Summer Session, call 800-625-2013 or, in Chicago, (312)996-9099. Or, send us e-mail at: summer@uic.edu 
http://www. uic. edu/depts/summer 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO 
Get Ahead 



page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 4, 19% 
.... 
• INTERHAll BASKETBAll • COllEGE BASKETBAll 

Lopez eager for trip to NCAAs 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Alumni's Alex Gese (with ball) sunk a last-second shot to give the Dawgs a 48-46 win for the interhall championship. 
Alumni wins interhall hoops championship 
Observer Staff Repon 
No matter what is at stake, when a game comes down to the last shot it is special. 
This year's interhall champi­onship game between Alumni Hall and Morrissey Manor came down to exactly that. 
After the two squads battled back and forth, the score was knotted with under a minute to play. 
Bookstore superstar Alex Gese. 
Gese drained the shot from the top of the key with one tick remaining on the clock to seal the championship for Alumni with a 48-46 victory. 
Morrissey topped Alumni in last year's championship game but Alumni was not to be denied this time around 
"We thought we were a bet­ter team last year but just didn't step up in the finals," 
By GERALD ESKENAZI 
Associated Press 
For the first time in Felipe Lopez's playing career at St. John's, the students threw a pep rally for the team yester­day. The players later admit­ted they did not know what they were supposed to do, so they simply mingled with the other students. 
For Lopez, the first rally started what shapes up as a month of firsts. 
Nearly four years after he joined the Red Storm as the most acclaimed high school basketball player in the United States, Lopez was named to the all-Big East first team for the first time yesterday. 
Before the week is out, he might even get to be on a win­ning team in the Big East Conference tournament, which would be another first. By next week, he figures to make his debut in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. 
In his final month with the Red Storm, Lopez is realizing what it means to be a part of the rich basketball legacy at St. John's. 
"Maybe it's just a senior thing," Lopez said yesterday, as he reflected on his first winning season on the Jamaica campus. "There's a lot of tradition here. It's one of four schools in the nation with the most wins. You feel kind of weird. Just the sense that this should have happened long ago." 

In a season in which St. John's has a 21-8 record and a first-round bye for the Big East tournament, which opens tomorrow night, the 6-foot-6­inch Lopez has averaged 17.8 points a game as a shooting guard, with 34 steals and 21 blocked shots. 
His next game is Thursday night at Madison Square Garden against the winner of tomorrow night's Seton Hall­Boston College game. No mat­ter what St. John's does in the tournament, an NCAA berth for the first time since 1993 seems assured. 
''I'm 23," Lopez said. "Now you're coming down to playing for what your life and your future are. You have to become the player you're sup­posed to be." 
When St. John's basketball could still make arenas rock, Lopez was growing up in the Dominican Republic. 
And then as a senior at Rice High School in Harlem, he was the consensus player of the year in the United States and the most valuable player in the McDonald's High School All-America game and at the Magic Johnson All-Star game in Detroit. 
"You know, I never came here thinking I was going to be the guy to carry the team, that I'd be doing all the shoot-in g." Lopez said. "I felt I had to earn what I would get." 
But the most St. John's could get with him was a .500 record under Brian Mahoney in his freshman season. After Lopez's sophomore campaign, Mahoney was replaced by Fran Fraschilla. The team struggled last season. 
Then something transformed Lopez and the team over the summer, according to several players. 
"I noticed they started get­ting closer, more of a family," said Ron Artest, who was selected to the Big East all­rookie team yesterday. 
"The first time I saw them, they weren't so close," Artest added. "I like when he gets emotional. Then he's unstop­pable. But when he's not into the game, it's a downer." 
There were quite a few downers in recent seasons. Not only had Lopez never played for a winning team at St, John's, but he also had never played on a winning team in the Big East tcmrna­ment; St. John's is 0-3 in the last three years. 
But as a player who could have attended almost any other college, Lopez has never thought of leaving St. John's, despite being reminded con­stantly about failed expecta­tions and hopes. 
"How we go out is how peo­ple will remember us," he said. 
Alumni had the upper hand Paul Moore said. "So we head­and held the ball for the final ed in knowing that we needed shot and the chance for the to step up and take what we 

This paper would just laue for you to recycle it.
coveted crown, turning to felt was ours: That trophy." 

0 ~ • 
Do yoV\ wa~t to be iJt\yolved i~ .. · StVtdeJt\t G~ve,;..Jt\meJt\t Jt\ex+ yeaJ""? 
0 0 0 

• 0 
0 

0 
Applications for Student Government positions in the Cesaro/Selak administration are now available in the Student Government Office (203 Lafortune) till Spring Break. 
Please sign up for an interview when you pick up an application. 
:. PUTTiNG STUDENTS FIRST! . . . 
' 0 ' 
., .:) 0 C) 0 
---~~-~--~ ---~-­

Wednesday, March 4, 1998 
M. Tennis 
continued from page 20 
Pietrowski, at the No. 2 position, may be a little more even. 
After he dominated Wisconsin's David Chang last weekend to accumulate his sec­ond win. the Irish are hoping Pietrowski's bumpy play has lev­eled out. 
"Jakub's been really solid [in practice]," Bayliss said. "''m con­fident in him [for today]." 
To combat Chris Strunk's mighty serve, Pietrowski will have to key in on the Spartan's inconsistency. The Irish senior will need to be slightly aggres­sive and not take too many chances. 
"I need to put the balls into play," Pietrowski said after his Wisconsin win, "not just go for the great shot." 
The sharp-shooting will most likely be seen at center court when Ryan Sachire will take aim against Trey Eubanks at the No. 1 spot. 
Eubanks has progressed from his typical baseline play to a more serve-and-volley style. 
Sachire's strength at No. 1 and the depth at the second and third positions with Pietrowski and 
The Observer· SPORTS 
Brian Patterson to Rothschild's skill at No. 4 have proven the beef of the line-up. 
"Our advantage is the upper­middle part of our line-up," Bayliss said. "But positions five and six, although unsuccessful last weekend, are not without their brawn." 
Notre Dame's most weighty problem remains that the end of the line-up is practically overfed with talent. 
Despite opting with Eric Enloe at No. 5 and Matt Horsley at No. 6 last weekend, Bayliss claims he is "still wrestling" with the cum­bersome decision of a definite line-up. 
Take home a pileof tunes. 
Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka (219) 271-0696 

dates: March 1-1 1998 81-8080-028 


The Observer/Joe Stark The Irish will finish their regular home season today at 3:30 p.m. against Michigan State, a team Notre Dame has defeated in the last eight meetings. 
8 pm, washington hall 

o t r e m e
dh 
sym ~rch?sfr1Y 
daniel stowe, conductor 
n, Overture to Candide 

Mendelssohn, Violin Concerto in E Minor 
Karyn Blake, violin 
1998 Concerto Competition Winner 

Mozart, Symphony No. 40 in G Minor, K. 550 
presented by the university of notre dome deportment of music 
The concert is free and open to the public. For more information, call the music department at 631-6201. 

Looking for a Teacher Service Program for next year? 
Go to the Center for Social Concerns for information or call or write for an application. 
Sister Deanna Sabetta. CN D New York Teacher Volunteer Program Department of Education 1011 First Avenue New York. New York 10022 212-371-1011 EX 2803 


-
page 18 
~--­
Huskies hoard major conference accolades 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
Connecticut, the top seed in this week's Big East tourna­me~t. won the conference's three major awards on Tuesday. 
Jim Calhoun won the coach of the year for a record fourth time, Hichard Hamilton was eleeted player of the year and Khalid El-Amin took rookie of the y11ar honors. 
Calhoun, who guided the Huskies to an overall record of 26-4 and 15-3 in the con­ference, earned the award for the first time in 1989-90. lie 
also received it in 1993-94 and 1995-96. 
Hamilton averaged 21.8 points, second in the confer­ence behind last year's win­ner, Pat Garrity of Notre Dame. Garrity, who won the scholar athlete award, was second in this season's voting. 
El-Amin was the leading freshman scorer in the league with a 15.1 points per game and averaged 4.2 assi~ts. 
Other award winners were Damian Owens of West Virginia for defensive player of the year and Eton Thomas of Syracuse as most improved player. · 
Richard Hamilton Sophomore Tim James Junior 
Pat Ga"lty Senior 
Felipe Lopez Senior Damian Owens Senior 
ALL-ROOKIE TEAM 
Khlid El-Amin 
Martin lngelsby 
Ricardo Greer Jeff Greer 


The Observer/Tom Roland 

The Irish Connection 
~~~~~ 
Proudly Presents 
Thursday March 5 
Improvisational Grooves 70:30 Show 
U...plu-ey's Md;ee 
Friday March 6 
Still in town? Come to our 
SPRING BREAK DANCE PARTY 
Open for lunch at 3 pm Friday Sandwich, chips, & a drink -$3.75 
Support local music 
525 N. Hill St.. South Bend 

The Observer/John Daily 
Connecticut Miami 
Notre Dame 
St. John's 
West Virginia 

The Observer/John Daily 
UConn's Richard Hamilton (32) won the Big East player of the year award. 
Win 
continued from page 20 
Jamel Thomas. The junior erupted for a career-high 32 points Saturday and also grabbed 10 rebounds. 
The only Providence player with a double-digit scoring average (18.6), Thomas must have a big game for the Friars to win. Consequently, Notre Dame will build its game plan around stop­ping the 6-foot-6, 225-pound shooting guard. 
"He's a great player who is the key to their otfense," said forward Derek Manner. "We've got to keep pressure on him and make him work for his shots." 
Point guard John Linehan was equally disruptive off the bench for the Friars Saturday, dropping in 10 points, dishing out seven assists, and tallying seven steals in 30 minutes of action. 
Meanwhile, Linehan caused all kinds of problems for the Irish point guards. The pair combined for just two points and four assists while turning the ball over five times. 
"We know we have to bounce 


Announcing the 1998 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the 1998 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergradu­ate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs involved 


5) the names of two references 
Application deadline: 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
back and give this team the kind of production it needs from the point guard position," lngelsby said. "It's just a matter of playing under con­trol and not getting caught up in the-frenzy of the game." 
On' the positive side for Notre Dame, backup shooting guard Keith Friel finally returned to action Saturday, scoring nine points in 26 minutes. Friel is final­ly 100 percent after missing seven games with a thigh contusion. 
"It's good to have him back," Garrity said. "He means a lot to this team, and he gives us a better chance of winning. I like our chances when we're at full strength." 
For Notre Dame to dig itself out of the hole, Friel, center Phil Hickey and guard Antoni Wyche must step up and give Garrity some much-needed support. 
On Saturday, the all-Big East selection tallied his us,ual 26 points on 9-of-19 shooting, but Hickey was the lone member of Garrity's supporting cast to reach double figures in scoring. 
"We've got to give Pat some help 
to put ourselves in a situation to 
win," MacLeod said. "They're a 
good team, and they'll be ready to 
play. We've definitely got our work 
cut out for us." 
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, March 4, I ')98 
Strip 
continued from page 20 
to the ultimate prize. We'd be put on the map for basket­ball, as Rocknn did for us for football. 
For four years I've stared at thn banners that hang from the Joyce Center's rafters. I've thought about what the NCAA tourney runs in the 70s, the 80s, and even 1990 must have been like. They took down the some­what-disputed Helm's nation­al championship banner this year, unfortunately. 
Now the newcomers may never even know. We should be proud of those moments, even if they were in 1936. We don't have many of them anymore. 
What would it be like if ND just fired ahead and won it all? Garrity could take over the tournament, turn into a Bill Walton ghost from NCAA past, and score more than 40 points a game. It's only 10 games. 
Does this dream go through every Division I fan's and player's head whose team really doesn't have a chance'? Or is it just a remnant from the Notre Dame football men­tality? 
Nevertheless, ND begins its 
final run against Providence 
on Wednesday morning. 
Then against UConn. Then 
against the winner of Miami­
Georgetown vs. WVU· 
Hutgers. Then another con­
tender. Then six more games 
in the NCAAs. 
Consider this: In 1977, 
when ND deprived San 
Francisco of its perfect sea­
son, Digger Phelps had 
ordered the stud1mt body to 
shout "29-1" all during the 
game. Because of that, after 
the victory the student body 
was granted thf1 game MVP 
award. 
How's "1 0-for-the-title" 
sound? 

·-­

Wednesday, March 4, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
.. 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 


YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
0/(AY, ·-...,€!/ ABOUT 
CAft1PVS '' HAS C1c::>NE 
IL\1'1'\ Bllrlllllt\\ ~ t\ !Ill
1'ECH;Vo! I <;o( A 
NEXT \'EAI{ OV \'Ol R 1.11-'1·.: Your\\ rdc-LHl!.!lll!.! talent' \\ rll lc1
COMPUTER PR<X$RAJ\1 
VI HI ..,cak IlL''' c~trc~r her~hL' l)p Jl\11 
~·onlu'c a pro... pcctr'~ l~lllfllt'~l'r 111
/fCtJ>S 1'1A KE 

part!lCI" h) n.:cOUilllll!.! aJ[ of \Olll" L'\
'1"Ho5E /t1A41C E Y£ '' 
fllTICIKL'S. Let IIH:n; a.. ~ rtlc qul·, 
1 
titHl\ R<llll<!llL'L' lo('~' L''llLTJall:-. 1"L' v.:anllll~ in carl) \UilllllL'L Pl<~n .111 
PRA'W~S. 'fH!S ~ 'BE 
ONE or -rHE FtJiJV;EsT 
cxotrc ,·acatum. A yqun~ person nra~ ncnl more !.!Urdancc IlL'\! fall Clct­
-noNC,S 1VE /XWE. ~~D 
ttng invoh,cd in \OUr L·hlldrcn·..,
1Hc fr1lJSI RISQvE.SC 
'chool acti,·itie' teli, them thai cull­catron is rmportant HL' surl' to ,hll\\
/f you CAN..,-SEE IT 
up for a special perlormancc. CELEBRITIES BORI\ 0\
F"!!?S[ KEEP STARI/'Ki! 
THIS DAY: actrc" Le,ln Anne Down. "Unforgettahle" >ingeJ ~at 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS King Cole. actDr Patrick llurt\. acJ­rcss Mercedes McCamhridge. · 
ARIES !March 21 April IYI The empha . ...,is wdcn is on lindtn!.! a v.ay to complete. a tcdulus tc.~.. h quickly. Although certa1n 'u""c'­tions seem inspired. not all of....tllem will turn out to he practiCal. 
TAURUS !April 20-~1a: 2tli: .-\ splendid day to invent new proce­
dures or learn an unu~ual :-.kill. Your closest ally ,,.. jJI heir speed progre:-.~ along. Look ahead. Go nn a Joh in­terview even if unccrtatn C\acth lA hat po~ition you want. ­
GEMINI (May 21-June 201 Your dazzling personalit) net> )OU an unbelievahle offer: act on 11 ~ Postponements will on!) hinder 'ou. Use psychology to get others 10 d0 what you want. 
CANCER (June 21-Jul' 221 
Refuse to let a last-minute cancella­
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
tion bother vou. Nurture a 10\·ed one who is going through a rough patch. 
SA.L£5 CONITR£NC£ 
Writers, artists and salespeople will
THAT MEANS NO 

enjoy new success in the weeb JUSt ahead.
C>ULKY USER MA.NUAL.

HERE'S THE PRODUCT YOU'LL 
LEO !July 23-Aug. 22): FanC\ 
theories are fine so long as you are
ANO NO L055 OF

BE SELLING NEXT 


29 See firsthand 30 Clinic workers, 
for short 31 Mammy-­32 Lowlife 36 Linguist 
Chomsky 37"C6mo-­usted?" 39 German article 41 Pollee radio msg
44 Japanese entertainers 45 Old Dodge 
47 Period of a renter's agreement 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 How the boss wants th1ngs done. bnefly 
5DittO 
9 Devil dolls. e g 14 K1nd of chop 15 "Family T1es" k1d 16 Dander 11 "Oh. woe'" 18 Ch1mney 
covenng 19 Nick name? 20 "Don't tell'' 23 "Losing My 
Religion" rock 
group 
24 Scene of the William Tell legend 
25 Norma Websters middle name 
26 Cash substitute 
27 Certa1n sa Western corporate mountam range career path 
64 Shade tree 33 Beam 
66 EqUine shade 
34 Carthage 
67 "Let's Make a
founder 
Deal" cho1ce 
35 Jul1a. on 
sa "Victory -­
"Semfeld" 
(1954film)
38" --Three L1ves" 
69 Secular 40 Reggae relative 70 Des1gner 42 Bnt. decorations Cass1n1 43 New York county 71 Forfe•ts 46 Reaching as far 72 Swirl as 73 ''And away-­49 Eastef parade attraction 50 1948 Irene DOWN Dunne film 
1 In--(having
53 Foldaway, e.g. 
trouble)
55 Polit. 
2 George Take• 
designation 
TV/film role 
56 Ma1den name 
3 Sixth-day 
preceder 
creation
57 --Arbor 
4 "Playing" cntter 
5 Japanese fish dish

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Facial t1ssues 


add1t1ve 1 Doorsill cry 8 Obtain by force 
--··~~~~~ 9 Poker boo-boo
1 o Mouths, 
anatomically 11 Eastern tax•· Var 12 Prefix w1th 
arthnt1s 
attraction 
22 Scarce 27 Chamber group. maybe 28 Dutch painter 


48 Provo neighbor 59Wayto go 51 Channel so Bust, so to swimmer 
speak 61 HandoutGertrude 62 Film director52 Grazing area 
Nicolas 53 Plot 
63 "Cogito -­54 "You·re ---­sum" talk'" 65 Middling mark 
..--------------­
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone· 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: t -888-7 -ACROSS 
Jlldtltull \\IlL' II till' clup-.Ill' d••\\JI f\, ll-can.:cr lll<trrJa~t·, t ;111 rn.ti-.L· lhtn~" cwnpllcatcd 14~1 t llllpk·, \\ tlh 
d11idrcn. 
\'II·H;o !Aug 2 ~ \qll 22t 
\t1JI1COI1C llla)' he ll'">llllg )Oll .}, 
lk\thlc approach \\ill g;un )till IlL'\\ 
alliL'" Knt~w your \\<,rth 1t1 <Ill t'11l 
plo:cr Refuse to gt\L' 111 on kt'\ 
potnl:-. iiHcstig~tlc an nlkt lnn11 ;, 
Iarav. ay hus~nc"...., a..... ~tlcialc 
LIBRA !Sept. 23-<kl ~~~ \<>Ill 
Intuition i..... highly accur aiL' no\~ ,.\ 
\Udden hur~t of cncrg~ hl·lfh ~our 
career or husine~~. Handil' 1111purtan1 
details your~ell. Your lo\l'd one 111.1\ 
O\'cn·eact to a prohlem. · 
SCORPIO !Oct. ~.1 No' ~II 
Stop~ You miiy he runnrng ctv.a\ 
from the very thing ~ nu nl't:d ,;l 
face. Multiple hencf1h "Iii wmc 
from vour invoh·emcnl wilh (I com­
munit\.' or charitahlc on!ctllJ/atinn. 
SAGITTARIUS <i\;"' 22-llct 21 ): Your credibilliV could he at stake. Go out of vour -..... a\ 10 an\Wl'J que,tion; posed 'hy someone mllu­ential. Be patient "ilh children who 
act iiTilable. ­
.CAPRICORN iDee ~2-.lan 14) If vou are sensitive to '(Hrr t:tl~\~ ork­er~-needs, thev will-do Iheir la11 ~hare. Let a ne~· romanuc admrrcr know what you expect. Authontv figures will grant you >pecial pri,·{­
leges. 
AQUARIUS !Jan. 20-F-eh. IHI. Just when you he gin to trust some­one, hidden facts are revealed Pia\ a waiting game. You \\·ill soon be elected or selected for a ke~ posi­
tion. 
PISCES <Feb 19-\1arch 201: A touch-and-go situation "ill work out e\'entually. A bequest or wmdfall could solidify your financial securi-• ty. An inexpensive l'acation sounds too good to be true. 

.. 
-
j 
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, March 4, 1998 
Irish need victory to continue season 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports F.Jitnr 
By now. everyone is aware of the tremendous hole the NotrP Dame basketball team has dug for iL-;Pif. 
But as of today, the Irish are down to their hL-;t chance. A win against Providence at 11 a.m. means they will move on to play UConn in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. A victory would also all but secure them a bid in the NIT. 
But a loss to the Friars means the Irish are done for the season. It's now or never for Notre Dame. 
games. 
To make thing worse, the same Friars team that Notre Dame will meet this afternoon handed the Irish a 77-62 drub­bing just four days ago. 
Does Notre Dame have a chance at salvaging a once­promising season by defeating the eighth seed in the first round· of the eonference tourney? 
"It's not an ideal situation, but we've still maintained our confi­dence," said captain Pat Garrity. "We'll be ready to play_ on Wednesday." 
To do it, the Irish must find a way to slow down Friars guard 
"We certainly have put our­see WIN/ page 18 
selves in a hole, no question about it." said point guard Martin lngelsby. rtTherc isn't any room for 
error. We've got to make it happen for 
us." 
The Irish could not have made things more . difTieult on tlwmselw~s. A team that once boasted a I0-6 record and a legiti­mate shot at thn NCAA 
tournarnt~nt 
limps into the post-season having lost seven of its last 1 0 
1111 IllChampionships
EAR Madison Square Garden 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Pat Garrity acknowledged Notre Dame's less-than-ideal situation, but contended that the Irish will "be ready to play" Providence today. 
• JOCK STRIP 
Only ten 
games for 
the title 
Mike Kogge Spom Writer 
A team of misfits and underdogs. A team that works so hard yet sees so many games slip away in the final seconds. A team that can beat the best and lose to the worst. 
A team that's still in the running for the national title. And all it takes is -10 wins in a row. 
Ten-for-the-title. 
Yes, that team is Notre Dame. We live in Hoosier­land. and that chance is the terrible beauty of the NCAA tournament. The losers and underdogs still get a last-sec· ond shot at the national championship. Granted, it happens about as many times as the NCAA commissioners apologize to Bobby Knight for inappropriate officiating, but it could happen. 
Imagine Notre Dame win­ning the Big East tourney. Imagine the Irish going to the NCAAs.· Imagine them beat­ing quality opponents, always ori the road, arriving at the Elite Eight. the Final Four. the national championship game. 
Imagine the drama, the glory and the dream. It would be one of the greatest sports stories ever told. How Garrity and Company led us 
see STRlP I page 18 
First Round  Quarterfinals  Semifinals  Finals  
March 4  March 5  March 6  March 7  
8 Providence  

The Observer/Tom Roland 

• WOMEN's TENNIS 
ND wins three of four matches 
By TIM CASEY Sporrs Writer 
The parity in women's tennis has been evident throughout the year. Notre Dame has been able to compete with the likes of nationally-ranked Tennessee, Vanderbilt and Mississippi. with all those matches being decided by one match. 
This past week was no excep­tion for tht~ 15th-ranked Irish. who sufl'nrnd a tight 6-3 loss to 27th-ranked Kansas on Sunday but bounced back with a 5-4 vic­tory over 25th rank1~d Wisconsin yesterday. Earlier this weekend, they beat Minnesota and Syracuse by identical H-1 seon~s. 
Yesterday, Notre Dame irnproVI~d its record to 10-3 with anotlwr dose victory over 

.. Wisconsin. The Irish won four singles victories along with a vie­The Observer/Joe Stark 
The Irish knocked off No. 25 Wisconsin, Syracuse and Minnesota, but
tory in doubles to sncure the 
dropped a 6-3 decision to Kansas in recent action. 
win. K1~lly Zalinski and Kelley Olson 
Gabrer. Earlier in the match, Sweeney by a decisive 6-1, 6-0 provided tlw winning point for 
both Zalinski and Olson recorded margin. At sixth singles, Olson the Irish with an H-4 doubles win singles victories as well. Zalinski, over Dina Baritot and April 
playing fifth singles, beat Roz see W. TENNIS/ page 13

-
• MEN's TENNIS 
Netters have edge in final match at home 
By SHANNON RYAN technique will take place Sports Writer between the contrasting players. Hetzler, a lcfthander who lost 
After winning all but one his only meeting with home match, Notre Dame's Hothschild, relics heavily on his men's tennis team wants to dominant forehand. Hopefully make a racket against 7-1 for Hothschild, too heavily. Michigan State this afternoon to "Danny needs to do two end its regular home season. things," Bayliss said in explain­
"We have two intangibles that ing the outline for sueeess. "One will help," head coach Bob is to keep the ball to [lletzler'sl Bayliss said. "We've had a backhand, and the other is to go tougher schedule [than MSUJ. out to his forehand without get­and it should help to be at ting hurt." home." Hothschild's flexibility and all­
But the 7-2 Irish will need to court play may give the Irish depend on their recent substan­captain the advantage, espPcial­tial performances to elaim their ly if he can pass the ball wide ninth straight win over the enough to force Hetzler to the Spartans. court's outskirts. · 
If consistency continues at the But if gamblers arn concerned, No. 4 position, the most solid Bayliss has a tip. play will be found by senior "It's hard to bet against Danny Danny Hothschild. with the way he's been playing," 
Rothschild, 9-0 in the spring, he said. will be tested probably by The point spread on Jakub Michigan State's Benjamin Hetzler. A quiz of strategy and see M. TENNIS I page 17 

vs. Providence at Big East, vs. Michigan Sr., 
@M 
Today, 11 a.m. 

~ Today, 3:30p.m. aJ •UConn's Hamilton wins Big East MVP 
vs. Michigan, 

vs. Norrhwesrern,
,f, ••
~ 
:1-~ .. March 7, 7 p.m. 

March <?• 3:30p.m. ~ see page 18 
vs. Valparaiso, 
at Air Force, 

•Nuggets lose again, this time to Bulls
~w 

~ 
Today, 3:30p.m. 
~ March 7, I p.m. 
see page 12 
ar S.W. Texas Sr., 

• W. Lax, at UC-Davis, 
~: March 7, 3 p.m. March 9, 3 p.m. 

~ 





