
• The Russian Duma rebuffs President Yeltsin again by voting 237-138 to reject his Prime Minister nominee Viktor Chernomyrdin. 
World &Nation • 5 

THE 
VOL XXXII NO. It 
• What's the best supermarket in South Bend? Scene rates and reviews three area food stores for when its time to restock the 'fridge. 
Scene • 10-11 
Tuesday 
SEPTEMBER 
8, 1998 

WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Pro-Life alumni protest Bradley over stadium 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
News Ediror 
Alongside pleas for marriage and ads for pizza f11~w a diiTernnt sort of banmw over thn stadium during Saturday's football ganw. 
Two planes toted signs roading "ND drop Sn rut tor Brad ley" and "Son. Bradley hacknd abortion," messages from tlw alumni in tlw l'ro-Lif1~ Aetion l.1mgue calling the University to aban­don its lnrllll'n series and c.lass taught hy fornwr Senator Bill Bradh~y. During his I X ynars in Congress, the New .IPrsey I>Pmocrat lwld steadfastly to his pro-rhoirP platform. 
""Sincl' thP University administration is apparPntly uneoneerned that Bradley's public n~corcl is in direct opposition to tlw Catholic Church's mission to value all life, we ... made plans to deliver our nwssagn direetly to tho University's 
Lettin' it fly 
community," said League executive director and former Notre Dame instructor Joseph Scheidler in a recent press release. 
"Washington Hall has witnessed greats such as Gilbert Keith Chesterton and llilairo Belloc, speaking from the same stage," Scheidler continued. "But to sit in that hollowed hall and listen to a man touting the challenge to provide for the mwds of children, while he sup­ports the genocide of America's unborn children, was dose to sacrilege." 
Bradley, who gave his first lecture last Thursday night, addressed the conflict between his views on abortion and those of tlw Church. 
"I support freedom of choice for the woman," Bradley said last week. "I respect those who have an opposing view because they have a strong moral conviction for their belief. I think we just agree to disagree. 

"But I think the University governs actions in the University," he added. "I think that people who come here will understand that it's a Catholic institu­tion. I'm not going to second guess the administration as for their religious convictions." 
While the Pro-Life Action League chose to display its convictions to more than 80,000 football fans at the Michigan game, Notre Dame's student Right to Life group has a different approach to Bradley's appointment as a visiting professor. 
"We are planning on putting out a let­ter soon with our statement on the mat­ter," said group president Samantha Snyder. "We do object to [Bradley's] record, but we don't want to run a neg­ative campaign. 
"We want to disclaim whatever [Pro-
see BRADLEY I page 4 





• STU,DENT GOVERNMENT 
Driver card will provide 
free soft drinks 
bars and alcohol-serving eateries to adopt tho nascent program. The list of partici­pants includes nrea favorites such as the Mishawaka Brewing Company, the on­campus Alumni-Senior Club, The Linebacker, C.J.'s Bar and Grill, Corby's Irish Pub, McCormick's, Club 23, Coach's, the Madison Oyster Bar and a host of other estab­lishments. 
"I've never heard of any­thing like it," said sophomore Scott Killen. "I think it could potentially be more effective 
Students may obtain special than current efforts to cards which entitle them to encourage designated driving. free 11on-alcoholic beverages Public service announcements at<participating places by and billboards can only do so ~ommitting to • being designat· much to alleviate the prob­
>~ddrivers. lems that students face." "It's really a different kind Other students seem equally strategy," said Brandy optimi<>tic. 
manager of BW~3 Bar "Finally we have an idea in.South Bend.• ''The that makes sense," said the. sa.me: to prevent junior, Joseph Collins. ''It's wiving. But the means great that students and the ·}M•·"'"'m:nlt:~ the goal are entire­administration could finally ditltimmt;" agree on some kind of alcohol 
see D.D. CARD I page 6 
Designated Driver (~ard
.......... 
This card entitles you to free soft drink& from the eetablishments listed on the back. 
Saferide 
631-98,\'h' 
Friday & Saturday Ni~hts 
lfW0-2:30 am Don't Dri11 k 
SJUmstJreli by the Ojjire of Drug Utili .-\/calwltlnti Drive! ' Educati~lt & Studtnt Gwm1ment 
The Observer/Dan Feighery 
A student enjoys the warm early fall day playing frisbee out on the quad. 
• fiNANCIAl MANAGEMENT BOARD 



FMB discusses $66K deficit 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
In rnsponsn to last week's announeement of a $MJ,000 studont governrmmt budgnt deficit, the Financial Managmnent Board met in a closed nwnting yestnrday to discuss its options for n~moving the debt. 
Tho board outlined a two-year payback plan for the various branches of the student union, according to Andrna Solak, student body vice pn~sidont. 
The plan ealls for all the organizations and councils within studont government to pay back ;,o pnrc1~nt of thnir 11 1JH-99 debt each year for thl\ rwxt two ynars. Student Union Board worknd out a snparate, thrnn-year payment plan of 40 pnrennt, 30 pnrcent and 30 percent bneauso of tho sizo of its deficit. 
Tlw board also discussed dosing accounts of branches which go over their budgets, but that will lw handled on a ease-by-case basis, accord­ing to Snlak. She explained that certain eommit­tl~os can go into debt for a short period of time, tlwn recover after a large fundraiser later in the y1mr. 
The board also agreed to check in with each branch, including clubs, organizations and Hall Presidents Council, on a monthly basis to update their financial records and answer any questions for them. 
In addition, the Student Senate is putting together an oversight committee as another check against future deficit problems. The sen­ate will further discuss this committee at their meeting on Wednesday, according to Selak. 
The entire deficit is $66,000, with $11,740 of that belonging to the Office of the President, according to ligures presented at last week's Student Senate meeting. Those numbers may be clarified in a report issued today by the student body treasurer, said Selak. 
"There may have been a mistake in some of the transfers so the debt may be less," she said. "But the amount that each club owes will not change. Currently there is $24,000 unaccounted for." 
To cover its own debt, student government is looking at each of its committees and examining areas that may be subsidized by other sources. 
see DEFICIT I page 4 
page 2 
• INSIOE COLUMN 
Responding to the Challenge 
How you respond to the challenge in the sec­ond half will determine what you become after the game, whether you are a winner or a loser. 
-Lou Holtz  
When I volunteered to  
write today's column, I  Chris Kusek  
had planned on writing  Assistant Viewpoint  
about professor Bradley's  Editor  
lecture and the reac­ 

tionary criticisms that surround it. This was my plan, but a funny thing happened on the way to the oftice Saturday. I followed a crowd up the road, past SOH and stumbled on quite a sight. I don't know how many of you have heard, but ND won its first game of the season a few days ago. From what I hear, the team they beat was supposed to be half-decent last year. Now that we're 1-0, the experts claim that the Irish may be better than they previously thought. 
Joking aside, the Notre Dame/Michigan game lived up to the hope and hype. The saying "as good as it gets" was almost as appropriate as another shirt (of the maize and blue variety) worn by many students on Saturday. Notre Dame won a game against a top five team for the first time in five years. The Irish D stood tough. The Irish 0, led for the first time by #7, recovered from a troubling first half to literally overrun the Michigan defense. The coaching was superb. In short-"though the odds were great, but Old Notre Dame won over all." 
In this same space last Friday, a column was written about the mood of football weekends here on campus. A detailed account of a game­day in the life of an average Domer was pre­sented. Well, sports fans, whether Sept. 5 was your first or last game day, remember it. It doesn't get much better than that. We woke up the echoes and the thunder came down -not bad for a home opener. 
The greatest part of the game for me was not necessarily observing Autry run past the Maize & Blue or watching Tom Brady get drilled again and again. The most memorable part was cheering on the Irish as they came togeth­er to overcome a seven point half-time deficit against the defending national champions.Our team was up against it and things were wrong, but we won one-just for the Gipper. That's what I'll remember. 
In his lecture last week, former Senator Bradley did talk about coming together as a nation in an attempt to live more harmoniously in society. He focused on our American culture: past, present and future. He spoke of America as a country that is "about stretching bound­aries" and one that is continually redefined. 
This past Saturday, I felt that we came together as a school and did achieve harmony, for a few hours at least. When I stormed the field with waves of my classmates and walked out of the tunnel to deafening cheers, I truly understood the expression, "WE ARE ND." Can that feeling be replicated on a day other than Saturday? Are we at a time to make Notre Dame new again? I don't know the answers, but even if we could it wouldn't be easy. 
After the win, Bob Davie was quoted as say­ing, "At some point, you better step up and win a big game ... and this confirms to the players that this will work." That reminds me of another quote l once read. It comes from Vince Lombardi, another coach who knew what it felt like to win a big game or two. He didn't use the word "some" too much, though. He said, "Winning is not a sometime thing; it's an all time thing. You don't win once in a while, you don't do things right once in a while, you do them right all the time. Winning is habit. Unfortunately, so is losing." 
GO IRISH, BEAT SPARTANS! WE AREND. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Robert Pazornik Scene Tim Logan Sarah Dylag 
Sports Graphics Brian Kessler Pete Cilella Kerry Smith 
Lab Tech Viewpoint 
Monica Garza Eduardo Llull 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the A~~ociated Press. All reproduclion rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, September 8, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 




~utside the Dome 
~ Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Police to begin undercover surveillance of campus parties 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Undercover police officers may use Penn State 10 cards to enter parties this weekend, State College Police Chief Tom King said. 
King made the announcement Monday during a question-and­answer period with members of the Interfraternity Council. Hushed whispers met King's statements about the privileges of undercover officers. 
"It seems like (the State College Police Department is) going pretty far out of their way to make sure students get busted," said James Hornick, Undergraduate Student Government fraternity senator. 

State College police officers who are Penn State students and student .volunteers, ranging from those with an interest in law enforcement to those serving State College police as punishment, have participated in 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeo:uher® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
r··-"·----"'· I Tuesday  H ~66  L 54  
Wednesday~  66  46  
Thursday  ~  75  52  
Friday ~  76  55  
Satur~ay~ ~}'..r-..J'-·'·-·--v· ··:..r'  ~,81  55  

q,Q,~A.Q.Q 1:) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 


However, he would not comment on whether non-student police offi­cers would have access to 10 cards. 
Awaiting approval from the Centre County district attorney. King said he would consider hiring additional students to go undercov­er to expand the operations. 
"I don't think it's very fair for the student population. It's obvious that we're going to party. They shouldn't pry into students' business," said Miranda Minetti (junior-health poli­cy administration). 
Although police may have access to ID cards, those cards have not been provided to State College police through the Penn State lD office, Dave Rose, manager of the ID card office, said. The cards only are provided to currently enrolled or employed students, faculty and staff, he said. 
With or without ID cards, the offi­cers or student volunteers working on State College police's behalf are not obligated to reveal their affilia­tion at the door of the party, King said. Onee inside, the officer does not have access to closed rooms unless permitted inside, King added. In both cases, even if the officer or volunteer lies to gain entry, he or she can still report inci­dents. 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 

Athletes fly despite Northwest strike 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The MSU women's volleyball team not only has to worry 
about the opposition at its upcoming tournament in 
Louisville, but because of the Northwest strike it have to 
worry about how to get there. Pam Mitchell, the director of 
sales at Spartan Travel, said the volleyball team had to can­
cel its planned flight to Louisville and schedule a bus trip 
instead. "We have been very pro-active in our handling of 
the Northwest strike," Mitchell sa'id. "The Northwest strike 
has been different from strikes in the past. We knew back in 
April that a strike might happen so we were able to protect 
the teams with buses." Notre Dame fans that are planning 
on coming to the football game against MSU may have trou­
ble getting into town. "The football team charters their 
flights so that really hasn't been a problem. Other sports 
bringing in recruits to football games may run into prob­
lems." "The Notre Dame football team drives to Michigan 
State, so we don't." 

• IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Homesickness more than a social ill 
AMES,lowa 
If home is where the heart is, many students are far from it. As newcomers to college life and independence, many freshmen face the strain of living and studying away from the familiarities of home. Stress caused by classes, combined with homesickness and loneliness, can lead many first-year students to depression, withdrawal and sickness. This danger is especially high for freshman who have, in the past, spent little time away from family, friends and "home sweet home." "Homesickness is a com­mon part of a student's adjustment," said Dr. Nancy Corbin, assistant director for clinical services at Student Counseling Center. "Most new students feel excited, yet really they miss the things they have left behind." Some ISU freshmen expressed feeling lonely because of the absence of their high school friends. ''I've got the 'lonelies' because I don't have my good friends to turn to," said freshman Shannon Schwab from Evansdale. 
• i{ENT STATE UNIVERSITY 
Contract negotiations at standstill 
KENT, Ohio 
Kent State administration and faculty union negotia­
tors have been meeting up to four times a week since 
late May in hopes of deciding on a new contract for 
tenure-track faculty. This contract is negotiated every 
three years. The current contract, which has been in 
effect since late October 1995, will expire Sept. 16, at 
12:01 a.m. If a settlement is not reached by the dead­line, several things could happen. Frank Smith, chief negotiator for the faculty, said it is possible that the current contract will remain in effect until an agree­ment is reached. "This has happened in the past," he said. "But there's no guarantee this will happen again." Stephane Booth, president of the American Association of University Professors at Kent State, said she hopes a settlement will be reached by the deadline, but said this has not been the case in the recent past. "In 1995, we were able to settle by the end of October." it 
• PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLlEGE 
Ticket scalping presents dilemma 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
The law of supply and demand. Entrepreneurial enter­prise. High payoffs. Hisky operations. Sound like econom­ics class? It's not -it's football ticket scalping at Penn State. Each year, the athletic ticket office sells all of the tickets available to students, but even well into football season, tickets are still changing hands. For students short on money, selling football tickets can yield a tidy profit. But reselling football tickets can mean big prob­lems for scalpers. The rules governing the resale of Penn State tickets are simple -a football ticket cannot be sold for more than its face value. If a student is caught scalp­ing tickets, the first offense charge includes a summary violation and a maximum fine of $300. For a second offense, the person faces a misdemeanor charge, a maxi­mum fine of $2.500 and up to one year in prison. Yet each year many students advertise tickets for sale or tick­ets needed. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

Anchorage Bakersfield Boston Chicago Compton 
2  -17  Denver  97 74  Placentia  89  78  
77  62  Dijibhuti  90 65  Portland  78  67  
76  65  El Cajon  87  76  Sarasota  82  63  
82  55  Guam  101 86  St. Louis  62  61  
85  72  Huntngtn.Bch 87 67  Vacaville  117 95  


--------------1 
I 
I 
Tuesday, September 8, 1998 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 1-61 00 • http://www.nd.edu/-recsport 
SMC students serve homeless 
By JESSICA DELGADO nxpnrinncns tlwy did not mind. Nl'w!<oWritn Mary Portnr stayed in South 
Whiln sonw studnnts IHmdnd hom!' for tlw sumnwr. a group of Saint Mary's studnnts chosn to SJlf'IHI lht~ SllllllllPr working at homPIPss slwltPrs and din­if's at'ross North i\nwrica. 
ThP studPnts Wf'l'f' part of thn Caring ConnPf'tion program. whirh is supportnd by SUHV rlirPctor Sistnr Linda Kors and tlw altrrnrHtn oiTicPs of Saint Mary's CoiiPgP. 
For tlw past fnw summnrs, studPnts participating in l.lw program havt~ staynd with alumn<w whiln providing snr­vicns to nldnrly and povnrty­stricknn womt•n and childrnn in tlw an~a. 
This ynar. snvnn studnnts workPd in f'itins including Columbus. Ohio. St. Louis, Mo., and Silvnr Spring, Mel. This was tlw first ynar that South BPrHI was a sitn for Caring Conrwction and four studnnts mmairwd on campus to tl'nd to thn n111~ds of thn COillmllllilV. 
!\ yn a r ~ ro trrHI stay at tlw CoiiPgn wasn't the idnal situa­tion for many at first, Kors said, but al'tPr thnir rnwarding Bnnd and worked at the Sacred 

lleart Parish and the local cen­
tnr of Hnspite Care. 
Working with sick and eldnr­
'IKNEW IT MEANT so 
MUCH TO THEM; THEY 
LOVED SEEING SOMEONE 
YOUNG AND HAVING SOME­
ONE TO TALK TO.' 
MllRY PORTER 
C!ll!ING CoNNHC7WN voLUNTEER 
ly in the hospital and horne­bound individuals, Porter might havo expected scientilic lnarning, hut sho did not know how much morn it would affect lwr. 
"It was a lot different from actually working in the hospi­tal," Porter said. "So much of it was a spiritual oxperience. " 
Porter visited those with breathing problnms, blindness and, in !lllP case, depression. Although she usually spent her aftc)rnoons making chit-chat with thorn, l'ortnr also trind to brighten their days. 
''I'd encourage them to do something, try something dif­ferent," she said. "Even if I said it one million times before, and it could get frus· trating, it was worth it whcm I'd see even little changes." 
But Porter's main responsi­bility was listnning. 
"They'd tell me about their families or problems," she said. "I could tell them things or give them advice, but it was usually better just to listen. It means a lot more than speak­ing." 
Like others involved in Caring Connection, Porter had frustrating or disappointing days. 
"After visiting, it was really hard because I'd think about the person all day or all week or until the next time I saw them," she said. "I knew it meant so much to them; they loved seeing someone young and having someone to talk to." 
In addition, Porter also ran a parish Bible camp for children ages five to 12, where she organized skits, games, crafts and sing-alongs from other countries. 


Grads study in Far East 
By MAGGY TINUCCI News Writer 
Three Notre Dame grudu· ates have been awardod the prestigious Luce Scholarship in the past three years, an honor that enables them to live and work in tho Far East for one year, doing work in a field of their pa.rticular interest. 
"The scholarship is intended to give exposure and experi­ence in the Far East to those who will one day have impor­tant positions in American life," said Steven Skaar, Luce Scholars liaison and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
The scholarship was created more than 70 years ago by Henry Luce of Time magazine because he thought Amerkans did not know enough about the Far East. He wanted to give young people the opportunity to study a part of the world that would become very important in international issues, Skaar said. 
"The foundation has been very happy with their Notre Dame representatives," he says. 
Katie Wiltrout, Alex Andreichuk and Tony Yang are Notre Dame's most Gur· rent winners of this award and were placed in settings com­patible with their career objec· tivos. The recipicmts aro givcm substantial responsibility and gain valuable experienee. 
Wiltrout, an Ameriean stud­ies major at Notre Dame, spent the 1995-96 school year working for an English lan­guage newspaper out of Seoul, South Korea. 
Andrtlichuk, u civil engineer­ing major, was placed in a Hong Kong engineering com­pany last year. The company is responsible for large building projects and he was able to travel to major Asian cities. 
Yang was nominatnd by his graduate school, Yale Law School, and is cwTently begin­ning his year in the Fat· East. His experience and interest lies in public advocacy and will be placed in some area appro­priate to that, Skaar says. 
The only stipulation of the nominees is that they have no prtwlous experienet~ or previ­ous study of any issue pertain­ing to the Far East. 

Check out more about the Sacrament of 


Con irmcrtion 
Are!JOU ll61l_Pttzro C11tfioficwlio fum never 6unConjlrmeaf 
Are!JOU WOMering wfiether!JOU nero to 6e Conjl.rmea to getmwrtea tn the C11tfiofic Cliurclif 

Wout()!JOU fiKe topreywefor ColiftrmllttonwttliotherXotre. D11me stu~ts wlio we l'eatc11tea to growing in tliclrJmtli? 
For more information about the confirmation 
program come to an information session at: 
StegfriroCfiapeC ~uesilt19, Sept. 8 7:00p.m. 
please contact Fr. John Conley, CSC or Katie Pytlak at 63 1-5242 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office with any questions. 
IH Men & G/F/S Soccer IH Cross Country Campus Golf Scramble 
(Golf Scramble sign ups at Golf Shop} 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 8, 1998 
Bradley 
continued from page 1 
Life Action League] is doing. They told us what they were going to do, but I don't think stu­dents should be involved in it," she continued. "They're not going to get any involvement from us." 
Law professor Charles Rice also came out in defense of the League, saying that the University's announcement of Bradley's appointment included talk of his being a national leader in tax reform, international trade, p(msion reform, communi­ty building and building race relations but did not mention his stand on abortion. 
"The fact that Notre Dame didn't even consider abortion 
important means Notre Dame thinks that legalized abortion is not big deal; the murder of 37 million people is no big deal," Rice said. "Bradley's appoint­ment is indefensible. It sends a message to the students that it is acceptable and even commend­able for a legislator to support abortion." 
University President Father Edward Malloy addressed the issue last week when introducing Bradley at the start of the former senator's lecture series. 
"If we are to be a place where the church does its thinking, if, as a university, we are commit­ted to truth-seeking and persua­sion, then we must always pro­vide an open intellectual forum," he said. "If we are to be ell'ective­ly counter-cultural, then we must engage the spectrum of opinion in our prevailing culture." 
one paid position -the dispatcher -for each night that Safe Ride operates. The proposed


Deficit 
plan would allow that position to be incorporat­continued from page 1 
ed with the paid student dispatch positions that security already has for Thursday, Friday and 

"We're looking at all of our committees and Saturday nights. seeing where we can take that money from," The proposal is ready and student leaders are Selak said. "We're in the process of setting up a meeting with Phil going to have to co­Johnson, sponsor some 
assistant activities that we 'WE'RE LOOKING AT ALL OF OUR director of already planned. security, SelakCOMMITTEFS AND SEEING
We'll also have to said. look for funding WHERE WE CAN TAKE THAT MONEY The Fin-from University a n c i a I
FROM.' 

departments and Management outside sources." 
ANDREA SELAK Board is com-

In addition, stu­STUDENT BODY VICE PRESIDENT prised of the dent government student body prepared a proposal to request aid from Notre treasurer, two assistant treasurers, the con­
Dame Security for the Safe Ride program. trollers from student union board, student gov­The student government budget allows for ernment and all the clubs and student organiza­tions, and two student senators. 
Researcher recieves $1OK 

It's not 06, yet. .. 

A new tract of land beside the golf course is being leveled for an expansion of 06. 
Join the Observer news department, we're looking for writers. Stop bySDH Sunday at 5 p.m. 
Happy 20th 





Mark! 

for work on concrete walls 
Special to The Observer 
The department of civil engi­neering has received one of three Daniel P. Jenny Research Fellowships for the 1998-99 aca­demic year for research related to precast and prestressed con­crete. 
The Fellowship, which is given out by the Precast/Prestressed Concrete Institute, carries an award of $10,000 and has been presented to graduate student Michael Allen, under the guid­ance of professor Yahya Kurama. Allen's project is titled "Siesmic Behavior and Design of Unbonded Post-Tension Precast Concrete Walls with Large Openings." 
The PCI research fellowship program was established in 1972 to support graduate civil engineering students internsted in research related to precast and prestressed concrete. Fellowships generally conclude with a master's degree thesis and a summary paper published in thn PC! Journal. 
The other two students to receive the fellowship for 1998­99 are Marty Kopplin at the University of N()braska at Omaha, and Robert Korry at the University of Wyoming at Laramie. 


Study in the 
Caribbean 
--~\~ 

\'-_"'"'~ .,] 
.., ···. 
~~·-··-·······-........... -·11 ... ...... . -·· ·····­
<.;~:::-:.~:,, ( ~.,...:/::..{I~;~:;> . 
Hispanic Caribbean Study Program (Cuba, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico) Spring 1999 Informational meeting with Dr. Thomas E. Bogenschild Director, International Study Program Tuesday, September 8, 1998 4:45 -5:45pm 213 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: October 1 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 

Titanic 
'""'·.'/


··-Tfiursday 10:30 pm 
·:<=.·=:._ .: 

frid~;~~a /10:30 pm @ ditorium .. $2.00 

Tuesday, September 8, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Brazil rallies against poverty 
/\1'/\HECIIl/\ DO NOHTii. Brazil 

Tnns of thousands of Brazilians marched to dnnHuHI rnlid from poverty and neglect on 1\londay, thn country's lndepnndnncf' Day. In downs of ritiPs. tlu~ fourth annual "Cry of lht> l·:xrluded" rallins drew llw landlnss and llu~ johlnss. pnasants and squatters, politi­cians. t:lt>rgy -and 1wnn llw occasional C<11­lular-loting husirwssman. Tlw nationwide prou~sl was organiwd by tlw Homan Catholic Churrh. labor unions and h1flisl political par­tins. Many candidalf'S handml out campaign lt>ar!Pts at llw ralliPs. Many protesters had sc•l out nwre than a month ago in caravans from rPmolP inlnrior towns to roach stat<1 rapitals hy 1\·londay. Some :iO,OOO p<wple gatlwrnd for a Mass and rally al tlw Basilica ol' Our H<•vPalt>d Lady, Brazil's patron saint, in /\pan•rida do NorlP, IO:i miles nasl of Sao l'aulo. Bishop l>emntrio Valentini accused l'n•sidPnt Ft•rrrando IIPnriqtw Cardoso's gov­Prnmc·nt ol' not raring about the poor. 
Spanish seek lucky toad 
/\LC/\1./\ DE 1./\ SELV /\. Spain 

Forgl'l Viagra; hundrnds of people hen1 are tuming to a fertility toad -with no unpleas­ant sidl' t>ITncts. With torches lighting their way in tlw dark of night. residents climbed a hillsidn Sunday night to pay homage to the "toad": a 17-foot-by-17-foot rock formation that looks like a load and overlooks /\Ieala de Ia Selva. a mountain hamh1t of 500 in eastern Spain's TPrtwl province. According to logend, touching tlw creature three times -no neml to kiss it-under a full moon will make great things happer1. Tlw toad is supposed to be all­powerful. !wiping people with everything from putting zing hack into their love lives to win­ning tlw lottnry or passing a civil service Pxam. Mayor Benito Bos. estimating that about 1.000 people turrwd out to worship the load, admitted that he, too, touched it. but not for luck in the lwdroom. "I have four chil­dnm." said Bos. 47."1 don't need any more fprtility." 
Divers find Swissair black box 
11/\LIFAX. Nova Scotia 

Tlw flight-data rneorder recovered by divers rwar tlw wreckagn ol' Swissair Flight I 11 con­tains no information from the l'inal crucial minutes bel'orn the plane crashml. investiga­tors said Monday. Tlw setback offset good rwws from lhn scmrch operation: a Canadian navy submarirw has detected a signal from the plann's other "black box" -the cockpit-voice recorder. The chid crash investigator, Vie (;c1rd11n. said tlw flight-data r<)corder retrieved Sunday was in good condition and should pro­vid<' mor11 than 100 types ol' information rang­ing from altitudc1 and airspeed to whether the plan11's smokn warning lights wore on. But he said tlwre was no data from at least the last six minutes before thn MD-11 jumbo jet plungnd into tlw ocean of'f Nova Scotia on WPdrwsday night, killing all 229 aboard. 
NPMMWMiiEE.­
AMEX:Dow 602.71 
}ONES -4.01 
Nasdaq: 
1566.52

-41.97 
-5.34 
NYSE: 
4tl6.31 

• 
-.1.58 S&P 500: 973.89 -8.37 

Composite 
Volume:

7640.25 879.700,000 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 
1H~ln~r Ill bl H :ti liAit!il I'Uirl
·~· n1~t~Hil 

Pl•IICuinpuh•r Ill'II +I.U 1.4.HS 109..~ 
c .unlmdl{<' lt·t·l! CAT/' ·22.1'1 -7.7813 ;!7.37.1' 
\I'll~ ~py -.82 ·.HJ25 97,75 
rr •• wll'f\ (iroup mv -5.02 ·2.0625 30,062.1 
lnh•l I nrp INH: +1.95 1.500 7!\\25 
Cll.tWMolllhallltl' CMJI -7.87 .,l,H75 45.375 
Mlcru.,<JitCtlrp MSFJ' -2.65 ·2.625 96.625 
Clml Sy51l'lll\ csco -1.52 -Li75 K9.25 1 
Wurl\lr.:olnlnc. WCOM .:1,4J ·1.6250 45.75 
(il•nEil•drlc GE -2.41 .J.R75 75,875 

'-Toung people from around the country participated yesterday in the the Million Youth Movement rally in Atlanta, Ga. The rally1 ended a four-day gathering for youth across the country. 



Youths march in King's memory 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
ATLANTA 
Nearly 400 people ­mostly young blacks -took to the streets today as the Million Youth Movement culminated with a march through the historic Atlanta neighborhood where Martin Luther King Jr. was born. 
The three-block walk ended with a rally just across the street from Ebenezer Baptist Church where King preached. By then, the crowd of mostly young blacks had almost doubled. 
"This is a movement about the future, to encour­age the young people to take control of their des­tiny," said Nelson Rivers, regional director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
Among the early speakers !lt the rally were the Rev. 
• RusSIA 
Jesse Jackson and Kweisi Mfume, NAACP president. 
The youth-oriented gath­ering in Atlanta was much calmer than a similar one in ~ew York on Saturday, which ended with a clash between police and some members of the crowd. 
"It's been a very peaceful, very dignified and very proud movement," Mfume said. 
The Million Youth Movement was backed by a coalition of civil rights advo­cates including the NAACP, the Nation of Islam and Jackson's Rainbow/Push Coalition. 
"It's about economic, about education, about social and systemic issues and the plight of young peo­ple who are, quite frankly, faced with issues today that I never faced in my time," Mfume said. 
Among those scheduled to address the rally later today 

was Martin Luther King 
r---------------, 
III, son of the slain civil rights leader. 
Speaking at a church Sunday night in Atlanta, Jackson said the youth­oriented event was designed to help contin­ue the unfinished busi­ness of King. 
"You may remember, his march was inter­rupted by an assassin's bullet," Jackson told a crowd of more than 200 at Atlanta's Cathedral of Faith Church of God in Christ. "He laid out the agenda for marching when he was still alive." 
Young people from around the country are coming together because they want to better their lives, Jackson said, decrying what he called the nation's focus on "first­class jails, second-class schools." 

u.s. youth 
St.a:1iS1ics 01"1 blad and Whr!Er 'f'O"v!lh m l<.menca: Povwty
/T""'---42"\.. ( ~' ) Bk1Ck!! l.f.'lOOf 18 ll ..:nl) \,__y In J,l(l\'l}fly 
(-1=;:;;-----16'\·;, \ ·• ) :Nittt~s ur11.har 18 lii.ir'lq ·~~--' Ill !JOV(:tly 
Edatcatloll 
l~-T"'"";--14% 
r ) 9Uii:kr> .•"til) '~", ...~ '··-~·' 1'1119100 ln::Jh &~)!lXII 
.~-Jr-;;;--83~.. ("-·. 1 Whtl.t'!\ wltf• ll.tw~ 1\.._•••·' t"'liS<'100 '"'Jh .9_":111))1 
Crime .t..ll youtn 'f:;fJfl"• 8Tres1s 'lor i'ilr~;. ·.m);~n! <:rinw 
~~ 47% 1JJso-"•
BltH:k '1\lhlr~ El.'l<.:.i: 
1()".;. 
Wl'rtoiJ 
Associated Press 



Lawmakers nix Yeltsin's choice for PM 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
MOSCOW Lawmakers rejected Boris Yeltsin's candidate for prime minister on 
Monday for a sec­ond time, throwing Hussia into even dnnper political tur­moil as the economy hurtles out of con­trol. 
In other blows to Yeltsin on Monday, 


the ruble crashed again dramatically and the Central Bank chairman offered to quit. Some Hussians flocked to stores to buy goods before prices shoot up any higher. 
"The economic crisis is gammg momentum with catastrophic speed," acting Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin warned the State Duma, the lower house of parliament, before it torpedoed his nomination 273-B8. "We are all standing on the edge and no time is left for settling scores," he said. "We must begin aet­ing." 
The vote sets the stage for a final confrontation between the president and his opponents. Yeltsin must decide whether to nominate Chernomyrdin again or find another candidate. If the Duma rejects Yeltsin's choiee a third time, the con­stitution requires the president to dis­solve parliament and eall new elee­tions within three months. 
Hussia has been operating with an interim government for two weeks, sinee Yeltsin brought Chernomyrdin back after firing him in Marcl1. Chernomyrdin's efforts to win eonflr­malion by parliament have left him lit­tle time to devote to the worst nco­nomic crisis since the collapse of tho Soviet Union. 
Both Yeltsin and Chernomyrdin met with leaders of the parliamentary fae­tions at the Kremlin before the votn, but there was no breakthrough, and the president offered only a few sym­bolic coneessions. 
Tuesday, September 8, 1998
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 

D.D. Card 
continued from page 1 
policy that is beneficial to both parties -It's a far cry from an absolute solution, but it's definitely a decent place to start." 
'IFA LIFE COULD BE 
SAVED BY A FREE POP, THEN I THINK IT'S WELL WORTH IT.' 
RANDY MILLER CORBY'S BARTENDER 
Student body president Peter Cesaro reaffirms the positive motivation behind the endeavor. 
"It's simply a great pro­gram," he said. "The primary goal is to allow students to drink non-alcoholic bever­ages without forcing them to pay outrageous charges. Ideally, the project will save student lives." 
"It's not a question of a free drink, it's a question of a safe ride," said Randy Miller, a bartender at Corby's Irish Pub. "It would be ridiculous not to at least make an attempt at the program. If a life could be saved by a free pop, then I think it's well worth it." 


Kolettis passes away 
Professor emeritus was 
70 years old 
Special to The Observer 
George Kolettis, professor emeritus of mathematics at the University of Notre Dame, died Aug. 7 in South Bend after a heart attack. He was 70. 
Kolettis came to Notre Dame in 1958 as a postdoctoral fellow in the mathematics department under the sponsorship of the Office of Naval Research. He was appointed an assistant profes­sor of mathematics a year later and rose to the rank of full pro­fessor in 1969. He was active in research, teaching and admin-istration in the department, serving as assistant ;chair, director of undergraduate stud­ies, and a member of the exec­utive committee. Seven gradu­ate students earned doctorates in math under his direction. 

Kolettis attended the University of Chicago, earning a bachelor's degree in philoso­phy, a master's degree in mathematics and physics, and a doctoral degree in math­ematics. He taught for three years at Northwestern University before coming to Notre Dame. 
A funeral for Kolettis was held Aug. 10 at the St. Andrews Greek Orthodox Church in South Bend. He is survived by his wife, Theodora; two sons, George and Peter; their wives, Julie and Michelle; and four grandchildren, George, Sara, Nicholas and Maria. 
Memorial' contributions can be made to the George Kolettis Scholarship Fund at Notre Dame. 

!Please Recycle The Observer! 
FOR tbc EDUCATION nnd 

The Observer We've got issues 
RESEARCH COMMUNITY 

OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM. 

TIAA-CREF. 
W  hen it comes to planning a comfort­able future, America's best and  world (based on assets under management). Today, TIAA-CREF can help you  
brightest turn to the expert: TIAA-CREF.  achieve even more ofyour financial goals.  
With over $230 billion in assets under  From tax-deferred annuities and IRAs to  
management, we're the world's largest  mutual funds, you'll find the flexibility  
rl!tirement system, the nation's leader in  and choice you need, backed by a proven  
customer satisfaction,.:> and the overwhelm­ history of performance, remarkably low  
ing choice of people in education, research,  expenses, and peerless commitment to  
and related fields.  personal service.  
Expertise You Can Count On  Find Out For Yourself  
For 80 years, TIAA-CREF has intro­ To learn more about the world's pre­ 
duced intelligent solutions to America's long­ mier retirement organization, talk to one  
term planning needs. We pioneered the  of our retirement planning experts at  
portable pension, invented the variable  1 800 842-2776. Or better still, speak to  
annuity, and popularized the very concept  one ofyour colleagues. Find out why,  
of stock investing for retirement. In fact,  when it comes to planning for tomorrow,  
we manage the largest stock account in the  great minds think alike.  

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 
"'  
~  
~ f.; ~ QJ  cDALBAR, Inc., 1997/kfined CmztributWn Rrxdfmce Ratin_q.•. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. For more complete information, includ­ing charges and ex:penses, call I BOO 842-2733, extension 5509, for the prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest or send money.  8/98  


·ritcsday, September 8, 1998 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
•IRElAND 



IRA splinter group pledges complete cease-fire 
at BW·3's from 
A.\soci.lrt·ll Prl'ss 
J>UBI.IN 

Tlw Irish HqHthliran Army dissidPnts rPsponsibln for Norllwrn lrnland's worst-ever tPrrorist attack eallnd a "eom­plPtP" CIHtse-f'irP Tunsday but 
didn't  apologize  for  their  
art.ions.  
In  a  st.atl'nwnt issuml  to  the  

Irish stall' broadcasters HTE. t.hn dissidents dubbed tlw Heal lilA. said they had derided on a "romplPte CPssation of all military activity." !.alP last. month. thn dissidents declarPd a "suSJH'nsion" of what tlwy rai!Pd tlwir "military opera­tions," a stPp short of' tlw deci­sion Tuesday to call a formal 



Why did you choose Notre Dame? 
:...~
., 

Did your campus visit'':inake the difference? For many students it does! 
If you are interested in hosting a prospective student for an overnight visit, you will need to attend one of the following infortnation sessions.:. 
Wednesday, Septemper or Thursday, September 10.h 


THE PRIE~T~ AND BR~THER~ ~F H~LY tR~~~ 
INVITE YOU TO AN INFORMAL ON TO TALK ABOUT WHO THEY ARE, WHAT THEY DO AN BOUT THEI RIS INARY PROGRAMS 

ANSWER THE CALL-------t 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
cnase-llrn. 
The Heal IHA, which had prnviously rr.jr.cted the Irish H1)puhlican Army's July 1997 ceasn-rirn, has admittnd rnsponsihility for the Aug. 15 car bombing that killed 29 civilians and woundnd more t h a n :{ :HJ i n tlw N o r t h e r n lrnland town of Omagh. The last victim was buried Monday. 
Tlw cnase-fire brings tho group into line with tho main­strnam IH;\ and several other paramilitary groups. Tlw IH;\'s main anti-British rival. tho Irish National Liberation Army, called a trucl) Aug. 22. and Northern Ireland's two major outlawed pro-Bri tis h factions, the Ulster Defense Association and Ulster Volunteer Foree. callod a joint ceas1)-lire in 1994. 
In ri)Sponse to the Omagh atrocity, the British and Irish governmentspassed anti-ter­rorist legislation that would give police greater power to secure conviction of suspected Heal IH;\ members. 
So far, however, police in Nortl10rn Ireland and thn Irish Hnpublie have yet to use those extra powers to round up sus­pnds on their list. 
British and Irish security forces say the Real IHA has rocruited 50 to 100 members since October. Most supporters aro bolieved to live south of 
the border that has dividod 
Ireland since 1920. 
Ileal IHA members and sup­
porters claimed last woek that 
senior IH;\ figures had visited 
their homes and threatened 
that "direct action" would be 
taken against them if they 
committed any more car 
bombings in Northern Ireland. 
The Omagh attack was at least the seventh car bomb planted in a Northern Iroland town by the dissidents. Tlw others had either been dnfused or exploded after police nvacuated the immedi­ate area, causing SIWI~rl) com­mercial damage and many injuries but no deaths. 
The Heal IHA's announce­ment came hours after Northern Ireland's major Protestant party, the Ulster Unionists, ended its ban on direct communication with the IH;\-allied Sinn Fein party. another symbolic step down the road to reconciliation. 
At a two-hour meeting at Stormont Parlimentary Building in Belfast, the venue for a new cross-community government outlined in April's 
peace accord, Ulster Unionist 
leader David Trimble dis­
cussed the establishment of' a 
multiparty administration with 
snven other party leaders. 
ineluding Sinn Fein ehief 
Gerry ;\darns. 
Trimble had sat through eight months of nngotiations opposite Adams without say­ing a direct word to him, citing thn IH;\'s refusal to start dis­arming as proof' it had really renounced violence. The April agreement commits Sinn Fein to secure the IH;\'s disarma­ment by mid-2000. 
Trimble had thn~atened to maintain that frosty pose indefinitely because of' the IH;\'s refusal to begin disarm­ing. But he rel1~nted after President Clinton appeared alongside him Thursday in Belfast and called for the IH;\ and Northern Ireland's pro­British paramilitary groups to disarm under tnrms of the accord. 
;\ majority of Protnstant and Catholic politicians in Belfast's new legislative Assembly in July elected Trimble to lead the new administration. 



MATUBA

V' Japanese Restaurant ""' 
Authentic, Healthy Delicious, 
The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine 
You're very special to Matuba. We would like to invite you to try our finest 

authentiC Japanese cuisine, served In our din­
ing room and sushi bar-taste our shrimp tam­para, teriyaki steak, teriyakl salmon, teriyaki 
chicken, sushi, sashimi and vegetanan sushi 
or manv other traditional Japanese dishes. 

I...Ln:hSpedal-$6$ !Xru~-$14$ 
1 -Beef Negimaki 1 -Teriyaki Chicken 2-Egg Rolls 1 -Tuna Sushi 2 -Fried Rice 1 -White Fish Sushi 4 pc -California Rolls 1 -Salmon Sushi 4 pc •Cucumber Rolls 4 pc •California Rolls 1 -Mise Soup 8 pc -Tuna Rolls 1 · Salad 1 -Steam Rice plus Japanese 1 -Miso Soup Green Tea 1 -Salad May change weekly plus Japanese
Green Tea 

Lunch Dinner Sushi( 13 pieces) $6.95 $8.95 Sushi (14 pieces $7.95 $11.95 Sushi veg. combo (12 pc) $6.95 $8.95 Sushinorawfish(13pc) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi (16 pieces) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi Deluxe (21 pieces) $16.95 $16.95 Sushi & Sashimi combo $18.95 $18.95 
plus Miso Soup Lunch: 11-2 Mon·Sat Otnnero 5·9 Mon-Thurs,5·10 Fri-Sat 251-0674 Fish-Beef-Chicken-Vegetable 2930 E. McKinlev Ave. South Bend IN 





VIEWPOINT 

How Conservatives Support Abortion 
Because the conventional rhetoric surrounding the issue of abortion has placed it within the sphere of the indi­vidual, it has been easiest to discuss abortion as the choice of the individual and then attack/praise individuals for their choice. However, that argument has many glaring omissions. 
Sophie Fortin and Jennifer Weaver 
When considered in a sociological context, it becomes obvious that for women there is no choice to make. Women in this country are dispropor­tionately represnntnd in the lower income bracket, the result of continu­ing discrimination in wages and edu­cation. Consequently, women are much more vulnerable to economic devastation by separation, divorce and fluctuating economic conditions. According to the National Advisory Council on Economic Opportunity, at the present rate, the poor will bn com­prised almost entirely of women and children by the year 2000. 
To economically cripple a woman and then coerce her to bear a child she feels she cannot adequately care for is a violent function of sexism. Abortion is not a slap in the religious face to which we must all turn the proverbial cheek, but rather a rnluctant sociologi­cal shrug of the shoulders. The moral, social and legal responsibility of a healthy baby falls solely upon a moth­er's shoulders. Although controlling the behavior of mothers allows the government to emerge concerned, the government refuses to act on that con­cern. Unwilling to spend any money, change any priorities or challenge any vested interests, the government's last resort is to half-heartedly place a metaphorical band-aid over the situa­tion and condemn abortion all togeth­
er. 
However, as evident in the continuing debates on abortion, this "band-aid" has not healed the wound in any metaphorical sense. American cul­ture thrives within the sys­tems of capi­talism and patriarchy. Capitalism necessitates that the "sue­cess" of the 
/ 
few depends upon the 
~I
I
oppression of 
I
the many. 
Moreover, a patriarchal capitalist system ensures that men are both dominant and suc­cessful while women are exploited. This translates into a culture that wants to "fix" abortion but lies igno­rant to the system that supports abor­tion. Making abortion illegal will not stop women from having abortions, nor will it make individuals in our cul­ture more "morally responsible" for their sexual choices. Yet, because ensuring the well-being and equality of all people in society does not lie within the ideological interests of patriarchy and capitalism, it will never be a national priority to alleviate poverty or ensure the social, political and eco­

• DOONESBURY 
&XCI3PTMOM CAUSIIE!OUT &Vf3RY r/V& MINIJT&5. 5H8S HAVING A HARP 77M&!?tf.41.-­ING tii/1H MY t&AVING HOM/3. 
/
/ 

nomic equality of women and men. The failure of the pro-life movement 
• stems from the failure of the conserva­tive movement (who has widely adopt­ed the pro-life stance as politically foundational) to recognize the systems of patriarchy and capitalism that sup­
port abortion. Instead, they work with­in this established social structure and construe the "pro-life" ideology as sim­ply being anti-abortion. 
Although we all may lock our doors at night, most of us in no way think that by locking our doors we are attempting to actively reform the vio­lence that permeates our society. Analogously, making abortion illegal does not in any way reform the cultur­al ideologies that support and maintain its existence. A true commitment to protecting the individual would entail working for conditions that would improve the quality of life of the born as well as the unborn, such as ensur­ing the minority rights of food, shelter and clothing for all people; reliable, affordable means of contraception; and, adequate, affordable childeare centers. Yet, our current government (dominated by conservative ideology) has made no move to improve publie 
life with regard to any of these issues, while audaciously agreeing to disrnspect the poor with an attempt at "welfare reform." 
We need to overturn tlw unbiblical notion that might makes right, whnthnr in the home, in domestic policies or relationships between nations. To construct a society that has dnep regard and respect for all life, we must over­throw the systems or capitalism and patri­archy that support tlw oppression of cnrtain groups of peopln. We nned to move toward developing a national socialist consciousness in which there is equal 

opportunity and respect for the lives and opportunities of all people, whether they are living now, or of the many generations to come. 
This column was co-written by Sophie Fortin and Jennifer Weaver. Fortin is a junior philosophy and gen­der studies major. Weaver is a sopho­more math major. The Progressive Student Alliance will have a column appear in Viewpoint every Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
POOR MOM. /Y1&N AI<& COMPt.I3TlJ/;Y Het.P­MAYBe. I t/39.7. I Kl3eP7llUNG11131<, 
GH/3 7HINK7AU-7H& HARF./5 
SHOUt/? 5t!NP 
H&RMYLAUN­f?RY.II5A
"MC:Wf, yO(}f{t1~70L13T60/ 
I'M A C01J.Bj&50Pif0MOR£ NOll!/" 
G&GllJR£3.. 
I 

'Golf is a good walk spoiled.' -Mark Twain 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 8, 1998 os~ERVER page 9 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Snitch city I house divided 
At the end of la!;t semester, The Women's Hosouro~ Cont.nr was placed on probation for two yr1ars undr1r procedures assuring there would be little or no faculty scrutiny of that "higlwr power" who is Director of Student Activities at Notre Dame. 
The USA's involvement was triggered by an anonymous complaint by student informants (snitchosl. Faculty and students alike should be appalled by both the increasing frequency of snitching and by the provision in du Lac interpreted to prohibit student organizations and their members from providing informa­tion concerning "activities contrary to the morul tBachings of the Catholie Chureh." 
The provision effectively divides the University into realms of (daytime) light and (night time) darkness. The University could not maintain its status as a nationally ranked research University if it denied its faculty the opportunity to discuss the pros and eons of "activitiHs contrary to the moral teachings of the Catholic Church." 
Such denial of academic freedom {for faculty and stuchmts alike) during the daytime would amount to a declaration that Notre Dame is a seminary under strict episcopal control. So why is it OK at night'? How can anyone possi· bly claim that studonLc; at Notre Dame enjoy any of the privileges of open, critical inquiry, if thHy have to eheck those privileges with Campus Ministry whon they form a student organization'? 
The process that placed the WHC on proba­tion lacked any sornhlanee of' procodural f'<dr· ness. There is only one way to make witnesses out of snitches: let them confront those they aceuse in a fair hearing. 
Ed Manier Professor; Philosophy & History and Philosophy ofScience Reilly Cemer for Science, Technology and Values September 5, 1998 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Labor unions crucial to understanding Church's social tradition 
What a wonderful surprise is Theology Professor Todd Whitmorn's column of Sept. 4 "Hnviving the Catholic: Social Tradition at the Univ1~rsity of Notn~ Damn." I lis analysis of the scmw. save f(>r tlw omission of a few courst~s in tlw ~~ronomics, sociology and theolo1,ry depart­nwnts, as wdl as cllwelopments in the Ccnttw for Soda! Conrnrns, the l'nacn Institute and thn Knllogg Center. is right on thn mark. I look for­ward to his future c·olumns on the "Catholic Church's best kept serret"-its tradition on social juslirn! 
llowevm·. I was disappointed by Whitmore's fail­un~ to ineludn in his "c:onsh~llation of concepts and dislinetions" tlw right to form labor unions for the purpos1~ of rollt~divn bargaining. One rannot understand tlw experience and tradition without rdi~nmcn to labor unions. 
Evm1 morn imnwdiatPly and crucially, omission now or latm· of labor unions as part of the Church's social tradition will only further the not so se<TPt, indPnd srandal. of rhurch institutions of all sorts discouraging amVor crushing e!Tort of tlwir mnployens to form labor unions, as well as similar praetices on thn part of corporations and government agm1des. 
Such widespnmd and scandalous practices are very much at odds with Pope John Paul ll's insis­tence in Laborem Exerecns (!Iuman Labor) that in modern industrial life labor unions arn indispens­able! I am sum that Whitmore will do his usual thorough work. 
Rev. Patrick J. Sullivan, C.S.C. Higgins Labor Research Center September 7, 1998 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Absolutes at the university 
It's that time of year again when most universities and colleges crank up their student indoctrination pro­gram called a college education. Most univorsity pro­fessors tell you there are no absolutes. They say it so absolutely. They don't even think they might be wrong. They are. 
The next time some intelleetual dogmatist tells you there are no absolutes, ask them to prove they really believe it by holding their breath for an hour. Maybe they only mean there are no absolutes in morality. In that case, they must believe it is okay to rape some­times, okay to demean someone because of their race sometimes, okay to cheat on exams sometimes and even okay to shoot a professor who gives you a bad grade, sometimes. 

They are also the ones who will ridicule you if you disagree with their relative values. You are absolutely a bigot and homophobic if you believe, along with most of humanity for most of history and most religions, that homosexuality is unnatural and immoral. 
They will attack you if you hold the view that each individual human life begins at conception and that no one should have the choice to kill. You will be laughed at if you think pornography, like cigarettes, is harmful and ought to be restricted. 
If you believe safe and fulfilling sex occurs only in a committed marriage of a man and a woman for a life­time, you will be thought of as odd or extremist. 
Most intellectual elites promote the indoctrination into the belief that we're all here as the result of ran­dom, natural processes rather than the intentional creative acts of a divine, loving Creator. If you believe in Divine Creation, you will not only be going against the system, your grades and opportunities for advancement may suffer, especially if you are open about those beliefs. 
A good response to these critics is to quote a univer­sity hero, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who stated "To 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKElEY 

believe that human personality is the result of thn for­tuitous interplay of atoms and electrons is as absurd as to believe that a monkey by hitting typewriter keys at random will eventually produce a Shakespearean play." 
Finally, they say there are no absolutes in religion. Whatever you want to believe is fine if it satisfies you. They fail to take time to investigate the evidence for the only religious leader to have an empty tomb. Religion, like the rest of life is subject to the guidelines of truth. 
Jesus Christ said, "I am the way and the truth and the life. No comes to the Father except through me (John 14:6)." His resurrection from the dead three days after his crucifixion by the Homan authorities was witnessed by more than 500 people. No one who reads this column and no one who suggests there are many ways to heaven expects to equal Jesus' accom­plishment. 
C.S. Lewis was a professor at Oxford University who at one time was an agnostic but became a devout fol­lower of Jesus. He wrote in his book, M<~re Christianity, "A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said, wouldn't be a great moral teacher. He hasn't left that alternative open to us." 
Good advice to students as they listen to their profes­sors promote a relativistic view of life would be to remember the statement by one Penn State professor who responded to the outrageous comments of one of his colleagues. lie said, "You can l1nd crackpots any­place." 
Rev. Glen Bayly Missionary Alliance Church Bennington, Vermont September 5, 1998 

Geography 101 
BEHKELEY,Calif. 
It is the start of another school year and classes are well underway. As college students, we have no doubt learned many things over the years. We have demon­strated that we've learned and absorbed the things that were taught to us since kindergarten. Two and two is four. The Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776. The boiling point of water is 100 degrees Celsius. 
But I've noticed that many Americans don't have a good background in geography. Many don't know the countries to our north or south. Some Americans can't even locate the United States on the map. (It's that big horsey-looking thing.) 
It's not that Americans are stupid. Well, maybe a little. But it's mom that the school system does not teach our children enough geography {not to mention a whole slew of other things). So, I've eome up with some lessons that should be taught to every child in school and even to adults who lack a good background in geography. 
Lesson 1: Major cities are seldom the capitals of their states. New York City, Los Angeles and Chicago are not state capitals. lnstnad, the podunk towns of Albany, Sacramento and Springl1eld are the seats of power. Why is this the ease'? That's simple: to confusn fourth graders who have to memorizn all 50 states and their capitals. 
Lesson 2: Canada is that big frozen country to the north of us. Contrary to popular belief, it is not a state­yet. It's only a matter of time before it becomes the 51st statn. Let's faee it-they look like us and they talk like us. We ean teach them to say "out" and "about" correct­ly with shock therapy or something, eh'? 
There are 265 million Americans and only 30 million Canadians. We ean invade when they are all out playing hockey. They can't possibly utilize all that icc like we would be able to; lloekey rinks and ehilling Molson's beer only take up so much. And wouldn't it be nice not to have to listen to "0, Canada" at a Blue Jays game? One national anthem is enough. (And, by the way, Ottawa, not Toronto, is the capital of Canada. That little bit of information will eome in handy when it becomes the 51st state.) 
Lesson 3: Mexico is the country to the south of us. Contrary to Greek myth, it does consist of more than just Tijuana and factories that bottle Corona and Dos Equis. Unfortunately, Mexico does not have a chance to become the 52nd state because the good old white boys in Congress wouldn't approve. They don't look like us and they don't talk like us. (They speak Mexican, for those of you who didn't know.) 

Lesson 4: People in Holland do not speak llollandaise. They put it on their eggs Benedict and then spit it all out when they produce all of the phlegmy sounds that Dutch requires. People in Switzerland do not speak Swiss. They speak German, French, Italian and Homanseh. Their army is the only one in the world that can saw wood, core an apple and uneork a wine bottle all at the same time. 
Lesson 5: Africa is not one big country. It is a conti­nent with many politically unstable countries on it. The people in one country can't even cooperate amongst themselves, let alone cooperate with othnr states to become one big country. Many of them claim to be democratk, but most of them can't even begin to spell democracy. They try, but it always ends up turning into something like D-E-M-I-L-1-T -A-H-Y -D-1-C-T-A-T-0-H-S­H-1-P. 
Lesson 6: South America is not one big country. See Lesson 5. 
Lesson 7: The former Soviet republics end in -is tan. One reason that geography is becoming hardnr is all of the new countries that have been popping up rncently. The Soviet Union broke up into 15 independent nations. but who can remember them all? 
Sure, people know the famous ones like Hussia, Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. But what about the other nine that are too obscure to remember? A nice rule to learn is the -istan rule. With that, it's easy to remembnr the othnr nine: Kazakhstan, Turkmnnistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Leninistan, Stalinistan, Communistan and Babushkistan. 
Well, I hope these lessons have helped everyone to be a little more knowledgeable in geography. This country sure needs it. Now you can go and impress Alex Trebek on "Jeopardy!," but you'll have to try and beat me, l1rst. 
Roger Kim is a columnist for the Daily California at the University Of California-Berkeley. lie is planning to one day win big on "Jeopardy!" with his knowledge of useless facts. Respond to him at opinion@dailycal.org. /lis column has been reprinted here courtesy ofthe U­Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Comparative Shopping 
The list: 
1. 
Store brand 2 gallon skim milk 

2. 
Store brand white bread 


That's right. No more all-you-can-eat trips to the 3. Store brand 1 dozen large eggs pasta bar. No more circus lunches and theme din­4. Regular size jar of peanut butter ners. No more cereal cornucopias, wood fired pizza 
5. Regular size strawberry jam
and Sunday morning waffles. 

For any off-campus student, this scenario is an 6. 4-pack store brand toilet paper every day reality. Faced with a kitchen full of foreign 7. 1 roll store brand paper towel appliances, empty cabinets and a thin supply of 
8. Regular box of Cheerios money, cooking presents many challenges for stu­9. 1 box Kraft Macaroni and Cheese
dents without meal plans. And that's before they hit the grocery store and realize that dining hall luxuries 10. Minute Maid original half-gallon orange juice actually cost money when they are on the shelves of 
11. 1 large tub Country Crock margarinelocal grocery stores. 
12. Half-gallon vanilla frozen yogurt
But don't lose sleep over how to afford this week's grocery bill. Scene did the research for you and went 13. 1 small can of Campbell's chicken noodle soup inside four grocery stores, both on and off campus, to 14. 12 pack Coca Cola Classic check the prices of 20 common grocery items. The 
15. 1 regular bag Ruffles potato chipsresults? Take a look for yourself. 
16. 
Bananas (price by lb.) 

17. 
1 bag store brand frozen chicken breasts 

18. 
1 Totino's plain cheese frozen pizza 

19. 
store brand flour 

20. 
store brand sugar 



Shopping at Kroger 
The results: 

1. 
Kroger brand skim milk: $2.09 


2. 
Kroger brand old-fashioned white bread: 


$.70 Total shopping time: 15 minutes 
3. 
Kroger brand Grade A large eggs: $1.09 

4. 
Kroger brand creamy peanut butter: $1.59 Total Bill: $45.45 

5. 
Kroger brand 32 oz.strawberry jelly: $2.39 

6. 
Kroger 4-pack bathroom tissue: $1.05 Summary: It was very easy to find the 20 

7. 
Kroger brand paper towels: $.71 items at Kroger. The aisles are well-marked and 

8. 
10oz. box of Cheerios: $1.95 the prices of items are easy to find. Kroger makes 

9. 
1 box Kraft Macaroni and Cheese: $.95 shopping easy for the busy customer by placing 

10. 
Minute Maid Original half-gallon orange common items -such as eggs, milk and juice ­juice: $2.89 in the first aisle. The employees are courteous 

11. 
1 large tub Country Crock margarine (1 lb.) : and there are plenty of cashiers at the check-out $.99 lanes. The store has a full produce, meat, 

12. 
Country club half gallon vanilla frozen seafood, bakery and deli section. Although they yogurt: $2.19 didn't have a large bag of chicken breasts, all the 

13. 
Can of Campbell's chicken noodle soup: $.68 other items were well stocked and moderately 

14. 
12 pack Coca Cola Classic: $4.59 priced. Kroger is farther away than Martin's, but 

15. 
14 oz. bag Ruffles potato chips: $2.99 it is a good place to shop on a low budget. 16. Bananas: $.49/lb. 


17. 
No big bags: instead Tyson's 3-pack bone less/skinless chicken breasts: $2.99/lb. ($14.95/5lb.) 

18. 
Totino's plain cheese pizza: $1.69 

19. 
Kroger brand 5 lb flour: $1.47 

20. 
Kroger brand 5 lb. sugar: $2.29 




Shopping at Martin's 
Total shopping time: 17 minutes
The results: 

1. 
Martin's brand 2 gallon skim milk: $2.39 Total Bill: $40.69 

2. 
Martin's brand white bread: 2 for $1.19 


3. 
Martin's brand dozen Grade A large eggs: $.79 Summary: After Martin's expansion and grand 

4. 
Roundy's creamy peanut butter: $1.59 reopening, the store has everything a shopper needs 

5. 
Roundy's strawberry preserves: $1.89 and more. The only disadvantage is that items are 

6. 
Saver's Choice four-pack toilet paper: $.77 spread out and it takes longer to complete a shopping 

7. 
Saver's Choice roll of paper towels: $.~3 list. Martin's had all 20 items, and although the store is 

8. 
10 oz. box of Cheerios: $2.79 large, the aisles are well marked and the prices are 

9. 
1 box Kraft Macaroni and Cheese: $.85 easy to find. The store is very bright and dean, and the 

10. 
Minute Maid Original half gallon orange juice: $2.69 aisles are much wider than at other grocery stores. 

11. 
1 lb. tub Country Crock margarine: $.99 Martin's offers an array of options to the hungry cus­

12. 
One half-gallon vanilla frozen yogurt: $3.99 tomer, from fresh bakery products to an extensive hot 

13. 
1 can Campbell's chicken noodle soup: $.59 foods department and bagel counter. In addition, 

14. 
12 pack Coca Cola Classic: $4.69 Martin's offers a discount Martin's Advantage card, 

15. 
14 oz. bag Ruffles potato chips: $2.99 which allow students to receive discounts off of selected 

16. 
Bananas: $.49/lb. items. Martin's is also within walking distance of 

17. 
Bag of Tyson boneless/skinless chicken breasts College Park, Campus View and Turtle Creek apart­(8 servings per bag): $7.99 ment complexes. The store had good prices and is a


Location: 12850 State Road 23, 
18. Totino's plain cheese pizza: 2 for $3.00 good choice for the penny-saving eollege student. 
Mishawaka 19. Roundy's all-purpose 5 lb. flour: $.99 (behind Campus View Apartments) 20: Roundy's 5 lb. sugar: $1.59 


~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--------­
11 

Tuesday, September 8, 1998 
--------------------------------------------pagell-
BSERVER 
•



penn1es 
Shopping at Meijer 
The Results: 

1. 
Meijer's brand 2 gallon skim milk: $1.49 


2. 
Meijer's brand white bread: $1.29 Total shopping time: 20 minutes 

3. 
Meijer's brand dozen Grade A large eggs: $.69 



Total Bill: $43.38
4. 
Meijer's creamy peanut butter: $1.59 

5. 
Meijer's strawberry preserves: $1.29 



Summary: Meijer offers a little bit of everything6. Meijer's four-pack toilet paper: $.78 
for the average shopper, including competitive prices.
7. Meijer's roll of paper towels: $.99 

The well-lit and well-marked aisles are filled with daily8. 10 oz. box of Cheerios: on special $2.00 (reg. 
and weekly specials and the special bulk products sec­$3.29) 
tion can help cut down on weekly shopping trips. The9. 1 box Kraft Macaroni and Cheese: $.59 
layout of the store, however, makes it inconvenient to10. Minute Maid Original half gallon orange juice: complete your list quickly. Milk, eggs and butter arc all$2.69 
located on the far end of the store and the produce sec­11. 1 lb. tub Country Crock margarine: $.99 
tion is fairly unorganized without clearly marked
12. One half-gallon vanilla frozen yogurt: $4.89 (Edy's 

aisles. In addition, the check-out lanes sometimes
Brand) become very long and the express lanes do not move13. 1 can Campbell's chicken noodle soup: $1.15 

very quickly. Although a good choice for one large14. 12 pack Coca Cola Classic: $4.59 
shopping trip, a quick trip to pick up a few items might15. 14 oz. bag Huffles potato chips: $2.99 
be more convenient elsewhere.
16. Bananas: $.25/lb. 
17. 
Bag of Meijer boneless/skinless chicken breasts (about 16 servings per bag): $11.98 

18. 
Totino's plain cheese pizza: not available (Tombstone Brand $4.89) 

19. 
Meijer's all-purpose 5 lb. flour: $.85 

20. 
Meijer's 5 lb. sugar: $1.29 



• 

Conclusion 
For good prices, convenience and effi­dency. Scene chooses Martin's as the best

Scene ranks the stores 
grocery store in town. Although Meijer of'f'ers slightly lower prices Martin's loca­tion makes it the perfect choice for most

l. Martin's 
off-campus students and the Martin's 

2. Kroeger 
Advantage Card means you can still receive 

3. Meijer 
discounts even if you forget to do your coupon dipping. Although both Krognr and Meijer niTer competitive prices. Martin's is made for the busy shopper who doesn't have~ time~ to roam all of the aisles looking for things. If you have~ a lot ol' extra time to shop and you want to buy items in bulk, Meijer might sonwtimcs be a better choice, but for a quick trip to pick up tlw essen­


tials. lwad to Martin's. 

How the Huddle ranks 
By AMBER AGUIAR 
Total Unavailable Items: 6' 
Seem· Writer 
Total Bill: $27.61 

The Hesults: 
I. 2 gallon Prairie Farms skim milk: $1.59 The Huddle is a convenient on-campus alternative to 
2. 
white bread: $1.29 the grocery store. For dorm dwellers and LaFortune 

3. 
1 egg-$.25, 1 doztm: $1.50 studiers, it's a great place to get snacks and essentials 

4. 
18 oz . .IIF peanut butter: $2.95 without the hussle of venturing off campus. 

5. 
12 oz. Smuckers strawberry jam: $2.3() Especially in colder months when there's nothing (,, 4 p;u:k Klflmwx toiiPt paper: $2.15 worse than having to trek to D-2000 only to have to find 


7. I roll paprr towel: Bounty: $1.45/ Hi-Dri-$1.06 your car amongst all those encased in snow and scrape 
S. regular box of Cheerios: $3.72 ofT the many layers of iee that encrust it, the Huddle is a 1). 1 box Kraft macaroni & cheese: $1.35 great resource. 
10. 
orw half-gallon 0.1: Tropiean $3.69/ Prairin The mini-mart does not carry bulk items or a wide Farms $2.49 variety of name brands, and has standard prices for the 

11. 
I large tubCountry Croek margarine: UNAVAIL products they sell. Like at any convenient store there is ABLE no advantage of coupons or specials at the Huddle. but 

12. 
Ono half-gallon frozen vanilla yogurt: UNAVAIL their quick lines and friendly staff make up for any 


ABLE shorteoming. • 1:). I small ean Campbell's chicken noodle soup: $1.39 The employees do not have the prices memorized or 
14. 
1 12 pack Coke (cans): UNAVAilABLE know the store like the backs of their hands, as when 

15. 
1 regular bag Huffles potato ehips: $1.59 asked about the price of eggs the student manager 

16. 
bananas: UNAVAILABLE replied, "Do we have eggs?" Yet they're approachable 

17. 
froznn ehieken breasts: UNAVAILABLE and friendly, never hesitant to try to help a wandering 

18. 
1 Totino's plain frozen pizza: UNAVAILABLE student find what they need. I 9. 5 lb. Gold Medal flour-$2.15 There's no beating the convenience of the Huddle 


20. 21b. Domino sugar-$1.99 mart. Its items are easy to find and the service quick and friendly, the perfect stop for the busy student. 

___________________.j 
Tuesday, September 8, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 12 
• MlUOH LEAGUE BASEBALL 
McGwire ties Maris' record with 6lst homer 
~~ 
opportunities. 282 2553 or 631 8015. CLOSED LABOR DAY, 9/8 & 9/9. But is it water? If you look thru the AMERICARD PREPAID PHONE ND Football Tickets Needed. Will reopen gaping hole in the ceiling, you learn We offer competitive wages, pay CARDS AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 on Thursday 9/10. the pipe that broke is actually
FOR RENT 

increases for returning students, $10-97 min. labeled "Waste." flexible schedules and work incen-$20-198 min. ND FOOTBALL TIX SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! lives. 1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR Call 258-4805. FOR SALE Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan.& 
CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW AM 232-2378 S.Padre.Early bird savings until Oct. We get treated RIGHT! Yeah! Stop by South Dining Hall or call 1-GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 1987 Saab 900 PM 288-2726 31st.America's best prices and 6147 for more information. 5 speed, 1owner, Good Condition. packages.Campus sales reps want­
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. $3000 OBO. Call288-1380 in Needed: tix to Michigan State. Will ed.Earn free trips +cash. What did we ever do to you? FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272-evenings. trade tix or a room for one home 1.800.SURFS.UP
ILOST & FOUND I 
6551 game or pay cash. Call Tony at 4-www .studentexpress.com 
89 Ford Probe GL $3300 1088. But at least the printer works. Thank Found: That Pretty Place. Bed and Steinway Piano $500 you Mike and Mike. A silver-colored necklace with Breakfast Inn has space available Yamaha Trombone $250 Unbelievable. He finally got what he eleven religious medals found out-for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms Guitar with Amp $150 Needed:Two BC tickets.Willing to wanted. His view of the Dome, and side the stadium. with private baths,$80-Accordion $50 buy OR trade EITHER two Purdue no newspaper to bug him any more. I'm sick sick sick and i can't breathe 
Call4-2453. $115,Middlebury,30 miles from 237-0695 or two Stanford tix. What a great guy. I want to be him breathe breathe. Who gets a cold in campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800-Call617-248-7046 when I grow up. September? huh? And who throws 418-9487. Stuffed Armchair. $15 All our love, a shoe?
WANTED 
Call 631-5435. Need LSU tix BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 289-2918 Us. Part-time nanny needed for fine home within 1 0 miles of Liz & Dave -Nice classified ad. It
TICKETS

one-and-a-half year old boy, ND/SMC 219-291-7153 Vendor Fair-Tonight! LaFortune made me laugh.
I

flexible hours, good pay, phone 631 Ballroom. 7pm. Be there! 
PERSONAL
5181 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME 
I

ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE GAMES.272-6306 but it's OK. i know how to have 
TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. Attention Clubs! Come learn how to Need aT-Shirt Designed? Vendor REAL fun. TRUMPET, SAX, ELEC.GUITAR TICKETMART Inc raise some serious cash! 7pm Fair -7pm tonight! AND BASS PLAYERS FOR ND FLYNN ND/SMC B&B BUY -SELL-TRADE tonight in LaFortune. SHENANIGANS BAND. ONLY @ Private home,1 0 mins from cam-Notre Dame Football Tickets Need a Fundraiser? Vendor Fair-that's right. 
-
1 HR/WK! SPRING TOUR AND pus. 3 lovely rooms,one 258-1111 Who can create & sell ND apparel? Tonight 7-9pm-LaFortune MANY OTHER FUN EXPERI-bath.Perfect for families or couples No student tickets please Find out tonight at Vendor Fair. Ballroom. thanks sarah. i do feel better, at ENCES! CALL MEGAN AT 4-2573 traveling together.Available foot-7pm least a little. you're the best and I 
ball, grad. parents' wkends. $75-LSC Ballroom. Attention SYR Chairs! How to Plan love you. 
Part-time position distributing adver-95/nt. Call Alice (219)282-2241. FOR SALE a Party training tonight! 5:30 in the tising materials on campus. No sell-FOOTBALL TICKETS Planning a social event with food? Montgomery Theater (in Happy Birthday Erin. ing involved.AII materials provided BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT-271-9412 How To Plan a Party training at LaFortune). 
free of charge.1-800-YOUR-JOB. BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM-5:30 pm tonight in LaFortune's Sean is the laziest kid I know. I'm www.acmnet.com/postering/your-PUS. WANTED Montgomery Theater. Geez, you would think that the going to win that bet. Why don't you job.htm 219-277-6832. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Don't miss it! office would at least be more water study for a change instead of eras­
271-1526 resistant than this .... ing your hard drive? 
Associated Press man whose record he where Roger Maris played for matched. the final time, McGwire hit his ST. LOUIS "I admire everything that 61st home run to tie the mark 
Only one man had made this Roger went through because I that had stood for 37 years. trip before. know now what he went The historic homer came 
So as soon as Mark McGwire through," McGwire said. "I am quickly, at just the right time made his two-footed hop onto very, very happy to be linked and on just the right day for home plate Monday, he knew it to him." McGwire. was time to pay homage to the Playing on the same field His son was in the stadium. 
Share a "taste" of Irish hospitality with prospective students 

Wanted: Enthusiastic, dedicated ND students who are interested in having lunch twice a month with prospective students. 
Purpose: Many of our visitors spend only a short time on campus. We created this program to give high school juniors and seniors an opportunity to learn more about ND student life in a casual 
setting. 

Details: The program runs Monday -Friday_ Volunteers are needed at 11 :45am and 12:45pm_ Discounted lunch passes will be sold to visiting students for $4. 
For more information or to volunteer for this program, e-mail Stacey at smith.330@nd.edu. Please include your name, address, phone and graduation year along with your preferred day(s) and time. 
Thank you! 
Office of Undergraduate Admissions 

His dad was celebrating his 61 st birthday. His biggest rival was in right field. 
And now, there's only one question left: How soon will the record by McGwire's alone? 
"I know that I am one swing away," McGwire said. 
This day's celebration began in the first inning as soon as he launched Mike Morgan's fast­ball 430 feet inside the left­field foul pole. 
"As soon as it left my bat, I just threw my hands up," he said. "I knew it at that time. What a feeling that was." 
And then. with a fist thrust high, he began his triumphant trip around the bases. 
Big Mac got a high five from Cubs first baseman Mark Grace as he rounded the bag and got another high five from former St. Louis teammate Gary Gaetti as he approached third. He also banged forearms with third-base coach Rene Lachemann, a tribute to his BashBrother days in Oakland. 
"I was, like, in awe," McGwire said. 
The 50,530 roaring fans at Busch Stadium stood all the while, except for those in the midst of a wild scramble for the ball. Chicago's 
Sammy Sosa, whose 58 home runs have pushed McGwire down the stretch, joined the party by applauding from right field. 
Waiting at home plate, where McGwire ended his trek with a hop, was his 10-year­old batboy son Matt. The slug­ger hoisted his boy in his arms and gave him a bear-hug, while groundskeepers rushed onto the field to replace the bases -no doubt headed to the Hall of Fame. 
Matt's timing was impecca­ble, too. He had arrived from California only minutes before his Dad made history. 
"I was down there getting my bat," McGwire said. "He said, 'How you doing?' I gave him a kiss, told him I loved him. The next thing I knew, I hit a home run." 
The Cardinals spilled out of the dugout to mob McGwire and it took him a few moments to make it to the bench. But he didn't stay there long, spring­ing back out to salute his father, Sosa and the Maris family, watching from seats on the first-base side. 
In a touching tribute to the man he matched, McGwire acknowledged Maris' children by pointing his right index fin­ger to the sky, tapping his heart three times and blowing a kiss. 
"He tapped his heart, like Dad was in his heart," said Kevin Maris, a son of the for­mer New York Yankees slug­ger. 
Indeed, that was the mes­sage: "I know he's with me and that's really all I can say ­thank you to all the Marises," McGwire said. 
Maris himself had been here before, too, playing the final game of his major league career at Busch for the Cardinals in the 1968 World Series. 
The landmark shot provided a nice present to McGwire's father, John. He was sitting in the stands celebrating his birthday-No. 61, naturally. 
"What better way to say hawy birthday," his hero son said. "I was driving to the ball­park and I was saying that if it's meant to be, hitting the 61st home run on his 61st birthday, it's meant to be." 
MeGwire homered in the Cardinals' 144th game and now has 19 left to become the home run champion. And when he does, certainly no asterisk will be needed. 
Maris never got to enjoy such acceptance. 
He hit No. 61 on the last day of a 162-game schedule in 1961, and his accomplishment was forever called into ques­tion by commissioner Ford Frick. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next­
Classifieds day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing 
Experienced babysitter w/ car need-BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT-NO Ftbl. tix $6 HAIRCUTS ed. Various hours. BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM-BUY-SELL HEY! Anyone want to see a water-
NOTICES 
289-1529 PUS. 674-7645 VITO'S BARBERSHOP fall? Come to The Observer office 
219-277-6832. Closed All Day Sun and Wed. and see the water flow through our SPEND ALL THAT SUMMER NO Prof seeks reliable baby NO Football-Buy-Sell. Seasonal and Open Daily 8-4, Sat 8-3. very own ceiling. CASH ALREADY?? South Dining sitter for his 2 and 4 year old Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 233-4767
FOR SALE

Hall Food Market has employment children. Flexible Hours, call 674-7645 
Tuesday, September 8, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Tlw last Irish appnarancn in llw NCAA Tournanwnt eamn in I1J1H1, whnn tlw tPam wnnt 14­7-2 in ovnrall play. That sna­s o n a Is o lw g a n w i l h a 2-0 
n~eord. 
Murphy and the rest of the dol'ense hope to usc the prepa­ration for tonight's game to build a stronger unit. 
"The main priority is improv­ing tho defensive team shape for all 90 minutes of the game, not just for short spurts," nxplainnd Murphy. "The nwat of our Big East season is com­ing up. and we need to build on this team to win." 
Said Johnson, "This game gives us an opportunity to practice things. We aren't going to focus on anything new, just getting people the ball and solidifying the ddense."AI'ter all, as Cox explained, "this is not the type of team to relax against any opponent." 


and making low nrrors," said Treadwell. "I think I can
Treadwell 
lead by example, by not ever showing my teammates that
continued from page 20 
I'm upset or down, and usu­ally I'm not."
team. The team relies heavi­
The Irish seek to extnnd
ly on her for leadership. 
their con fe re n ce winning
"Lindsay's really the heart 
streak this year behind theand soul of the team," said 
play of Treadwell. Since join­Brown. "She's a leader in ing the Big East, thn Irishevery sense of the word." 
have not lost a conferenceIn the netters' first thren 
match. They also hope to getmatches, Treadwell has exe­past the round of 16 in thecuted well and displayed her 
NCAA Tournament, ulti­
leadership skills. She has a 
mately in pursuit of a
combined hitting percentage national championship.
of .458 against Valparaiso, Treadwell will try to make
Georgia and 12th-ranked 
the most of her last season
Colorado. She also recorded 
playing for Notre Dame.
two double-doubles Post-graduation, however,
(kills/digs). 
she docsn 't plan to leave vol­
.Treadwell was named the 
leyball behind.
Big East volleyball player of 
She would like to try herthe week, as well as being hand at coaching college vol­
named to the Shamrock 
leyball, perhaps eventuallyInvitational all-tournament moving into sports adminis­
team last weekend. 
tration.
But rather than concen­
For now, though, she hastrating on personal records, her sights set on another BigTreadwell's focus this season 
East championship. And if
is on helping the team win. 
the Irish and Treadwell con­
"My team goals arc my tinue their spirited play, it
goals. I just want to make 
will be one goal that is defi­
my team play better by keep­nitely reachable.
ing the spirit up on the court 
..•.liw:I:D••··~~~-llillii.l::~tE~ID•~•E r·:t 
ND Volleyball Senior 5'11" Middle Blocker Austin, Texas 
ND Records: 1st career hitting pet. (.309) 5th career ace-to-error ratio (.1 03) 8th career block avg. (.88) 2nd highest season hit pet. (.367) 4th highest season ace-ta-error ratio (.14) Big East Tournament MVP ('96) 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program at 

NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
Informational Meeting With Professor Greg Gundlach Fr. Bill Miscamhlc Professor· Char·lcs Kulpa 
What would you do with a quarter million bucks? Cotne to the Student Investment Club's Organizational Meeting And Find Some Answers. Challenging Opportunities and Responsibilities Await all Members. ALL MAJORS WELCOME WHEN: SEPTEMBER 8 TIME: 7:30p.m. WHERE: Jordan Auditorium, COBA For More Information Call Matt Keating 4-1169 Or Please Visit the Club's Website at: www.nd.edu/-invclub/  
VENDOR FAIR Tonight! Tuesday, 9/8/98 7:00-9:00 p.m. LaFortune Student Center Ballroom No ADMISSION WILL BE CHARGED. BRING A FRIEND! Come and meet the hottest businesses licensed to produce your merchandise... Learn how to organize a fundraiser... Meet local DJ's, photographers & videographers... Pick up sample merchandise to distribute to your organization ... and... WIN GREAT PRIZES JUST FOR ATTENDING!!!  


TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 8, 1998 4:45PM 102 DEBARTOLO 
1999-00 APPLICATION DEADLINE DEC 1 
-
.. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 8, 1998 

Texas hopes to avenge last year's 66-3 loss to UCLA 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN. Texas 

Texas linebacker Aaron Babino didn't pkk up a newspa­per. didn't watch the news or answer his phonH. 
lie didn't want to go to class on the following Monday for fear of having to face questions about the loss. The massacre at Hoyal-Memorial Stadium. Bout (>6. Whatnver you want to call it. 
"A lot of people just looked at you like ... what happened?" Babino said Monday. "It was horrible." 
Other Longhorns dealt with last year's record-setting 66-3 defeat against UCLA by rubbing their own noses in it as a reminder never to let it happen again. They posted articles about the debacle on their walls. 
"I just tried to forget about it," said running back Ricky Williams. 
That shouldn't happen to the most Longhorns faithful. ranked 11th and full of highUniversity of Texas." The Bruins pinned Texas with hopns going into the UClA gam1·
UCLA, which will be playing its worst-ever home loss and the in week two last year, stumbled its season opener Saturday, has second worst loss in the history to a 4-7 SHason that cost coach become a four-letter word to of thn program. The Longhorns, .John Mackovic his job. 


. .:: :. :. : ~ .. •. ·•••.•••••• j . h7 . . ~:r :. . . .!•: ·.. .1;1••• ,~ h.  


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

INFORMATION MEETING With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
Wednesday September 9, 1998 4:45P.M.

-
207 DeBartolo Thesday September 15, 1998 4:45P.M. 313 DeBartolo Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 

Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
Looking for a career in a small hut nationally-recognized consult­ing firm? 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. with offices in downtown Chicago, special­izes in the design and implementation of leading-edge Windows­based client/server information systems. Clarity will he discussing career opportunities in an on-campus presentation. 
• 
Clarity is a young, talented, entrepeneurial company that has extensive experience in custom application development, strategic planning, technical design and project management within the Fortune 500 community. 

• 
Clarity is a Microsoft Solution Provider Partner. 

• 
Clarity consultants have diverse educational and technical hack­grounds, including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Liberal Arts. 


If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and a great future, mark our presentation on your calender. Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
DATE: Wednesday, September 9th 
TIME: 7pm-9pin 
Place: LaFortune Student Center-Foster Room *Refreshments will be served. 
~)ITY 

~NSULTING 


Tuesday, September 8, I 998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Alfonso's homer gives Mets 8-7 win over Atlanta 
Associated Press eighth inning Monday rallied Nfonzo's 16th homer came off McGwire hit his record-tying New York, shut out on three New York to an 8-7 win over the John Rocker (1-2) allowed the 61st homer. hits by John Smoltz on Sunday,NEW YOHK Atlanta Braves that moved the Mets to pull even with the Before Nfonzo's homer. which got a two-run homer from LopnzEdgardo Alfonzo's two-run Mcts into a tie for the NL wild­Chicago Cubs, who lost 3-2 at St. gave the Mets their major and a solo shot from Phillips ofT horner with two outs in the card lead. Louis as the Cardinals' Mark league-leading 32nd one-run vic­rookie emergency starter Bruce 
tory, the fans at Shea Stadium Chen to take a 3-0 lead in the 
MORE TICKETS FOR STUDENTS 
Recently acquired tickets for the Michigan State game are now on sale at the LaFortune Information desk. 
DETAILS: 
first come, first served. cost $29. Two tickets can be purchased per ND/HC/SMC student with valid student ID. 
All brought to you by your neighborhood SUB. 
endured a 1-hour, 48-minute rain delay as a violent thunder­storm ripped through the ball­park in the fourth inning. 
Greg McMichael (3-4), the Mets' fourth reliever, pitched the eighth and John Franco worked the ninth for his 33rd save. 
Luis Lopez matched a eareer­high with four RBis and Tony Phillips homered for the Mets, who took three of four from the NL East leaders and begin a 10­game road trip Tuesday at Philadelphia. 
Andruw Jones homered for the Braves, who overcame an early four-run deficit. Atlanta took a 7­6 lead by scoring five runs in the sixth with two outs. 
second. 
The Mcts got another run in the third on Brian McHae's HBI single, and with starter Masato Yoshii looking strong, New York appeared to be in eonlrol. 
Then day turned to night. 
The game was halted before the lop of fourth by a tornado­producing storm. As the sky darkened, plate umpire Mark Ilirsehbnck waved both teams ofT the field and the stadium grounds crew scrambled lo get the infield tarp down. 
While the crew was securing the covering, a huge gust created an air bubble under it. causing it to flap uncontrollably in the wind. 
Eastern Division  w  L  PCT  GB  
Atlanta  92 52  .639  
NYMets  80 64  .556  12  
Philadelphia  67 76  .469  24.5  
Montreal  55 89  .382  37  
Florida  48 96  .333  44  
Central Division  WL  PCT  GB  
Houston  91 53  .632  
Chicago Cubs  80 64  .556  II  
St.Louis  70 73  .490  20.5  
Milwaukee  69 75  .479  22  
Cincinnati  66 78  .458  25  
Pittsburgh  65 77  .458  25  
Western Division  WL  PCT  GB  
San Diego  91 52  .636  
San Francisco  77 66  .538  14  
Los Angeles  72 71  .503  19  
Colorado  66 78  .458  25.5  
Arizona  57 87  .396  34.5  




Fall Break Seminars October 18-23, 1998 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns 
NIVERSITY OF OTRE AME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN -~ TOLEDO, SPAIN INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR OLIVIA R. CONSTABLE WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1998 4:30 P.M. IN 213 DEBARTOLO RETURNING STUDENTS WILL BE ON HAND TO ANSWER QUESTIONS  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN !\ ANGERS, FRAN-CE 1999-00 ACADEMIC YEAR "TOP TEN REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD NOT GO TO ANGERS" WITH PROFESSOR PAUL McDOWELL WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1998 7:00 P.M. IN 117 DEBARTOLO  

APPALACHIA SEMINAR -Service Learning at one of 15 seminars -One credit Theology -Information meeting: 
Tuesday, September. 8, 7:30-8:00 PM 
CtJI:rtJRAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR -Explore the cultural richness of Chicago -Examine issues of diversity and related concerns -One-credit Theology or Sociology -Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs -Information meeting: Tuesday, Sept. 8, 4: 15-4:45 PM 


WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Violence and Nonl'iolence in American L(f'e 
-Direct contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -Service and political awareness opportunities -One-credit Theology or Government 


-Information meeting: Tuesday, September 8, 7:00-7:30 PM / 
CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR -New seminar examining key children's concerns -Focus on direct service and policy initiatives -Site: Boston or New York 
-Information meetings: Se_Q_t. 2nd, 4: 15 PM & Sept. 8th, 6:30 PM 
..
C £ N T E R r 0 R

Applications Available Now at the CSC 
SOCIAL 

Applications Due: Thurs., Sept. I 0, 1998 CONCERNS 
page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 8, 19% 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 




OffiCE Of CAMPUS MJNlSTRY 
103 HHburgh library; 631·7800 112 Badin Hall: 631·5242 Basilk.t Offices: 631-8463 WebP-.: http://www.nd.edu/...ministry 
Tuesda}'t September 84 7:00-8:30 pm, Bond Hall. Room 114 Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday. September 8, Siegfried Hall Chapel 
7:00 pm -Confirmation-Session for Candidates 
8:00 pm -Confirmation-Session for Sponsors 
Thursday, September 10. 8:00 pm. Montgomery Theater Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
Friday-Saturday. September 11-12, 5:QQ pm-6:00 pm, Five Pines Latino Mentoring Retreat 
Sunday, September 13. 12:30 pm. ]Qyce Center Opening of the School Year Mass 
Sunda~ September 13, NO Room/LaFortune Student Center 
4:00 pm -RCIA-Session for Candidates 5:00pm-RCIA-Session for Sponsors 
Sunday, September ll3:00 pm. Sacred Heart of the Basiji,a 
3:00 pm -Eucharistic Ministry Workshop 
8:00 pm -Lector Workshop 
Monday-Friday, September 14-18, 103 Hesburgh Librar)j 112 Badin HalL or see your Rector Freshman Retreat #18 Sign-Up 
Targeted Dom1S: Carron, Cavanaugh, DiJlon, Lewis, McGlinn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Sorin, Zahm 
Wedn~sdays. 8:00-9:30 pm, Earth/Science. Rm. 102 
Notre Dame Celebration Choir Rehearsals 
The newest choir on campus, offers a spiritual, diverse musical alternative to those who would like to participate in the music ministry at Notre Dame, drawing from a rich variety of contemporary, folk, gospel, Taize prayer and traditional sacred music. For details, contact Karen Schneider-Kimer, 631-9326. 
Emmaus 

Looking for an exciting place to explore and share your faith with others? Look no further. Emmaus is here. For more information on joining a small faith sharing community in our Emmaus program contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016. 
Student Volunteers needed at University Village Married Student Housing: The Parents' Time-Out Cooperative is looking for a few students to assist with child care (ages 1-4) on Mondays between 9:00-11:30 a.m. in the Village Community Center. Duties wiH include organizing games, assisting with arts and crafts activi­ties# and helping out during snack time. Please contact Alice at 273-1417 or Hae­Jeon at 634-4632. 
i I 

------------~~-----~ 
Tuesday, September 8, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
\ 

You Make it Happen Global Graduate Career Opportunities 
You've seen the headlines ... now read the small print. 
In June 1998, Union Bank of Switzerland merged with Swiss career takes off. But you won't be held back by bureaucratic Bank Corporation to create the new UBS AG. structures. 
The investment banking businesses of both banks came If you think you can make an immediate contribution in a together to form Warburg Dillon Read* -one of the world's highly demanding environment, then take this opportunity most significant investment banks. to speak with us. 
We operate a true meritocracy. From your first day we'll Check with Career Services when we will be visiting your expect to see qualities which go beyond the academic. campus. 
We want to see the confident communication of complex All applications for graduate and internship positions can ideas and the depth of character required for early responsi­be made via our website. We are an equal opportunity bility. We want to know that you can make things happen. employer. 
Having first experienced one of investment banking's finest Apply to www.wdr.com education programs, new graduates will choose from a *References to Warburg Dillon Read in the United States refer to
wide range of career options across international locations. Warburg Dillon Read LLC, a registered broker dealer.
Further opportunities for development will continue as your 

*Warburg Dillon Read 
-
-
Warburg Dillon 54p X 15 
• \lVf\iHlfl\{'~ SOtf[f{ 
Big East honors Heft, Grubb 
West Virginia and two goals the first half and Pittsburgh 
against Pittsburgh. For thP without a shot in the second 

.Junior forward Jenny llnf't week, lleft scored on five of 14 half. Grubb earns the honor for seorPd t'ivP goals in Notre shots for a .357 shooting per­the third tinw in her career. Danw's two Big East women's centage. She earns the honor The sncond-ranknd Irish 
soccnr wins 
.----:::::-~----., for the se~ond time in her opened their season last week last week, career. with a 4-0 win at Michiganinrluding .Junior defender Jon Grubb State and a 7-0 win ovnr West both game­was named Big East defensive Virginia and a -9-1 win over '' i n 11 i n g player of the week after Pittsburgh at Alumni Field. goals, to recording four assists in Notre Notre Dame returns to action Parn Big Dame's three wins, including at the Carolina Classic in East offen­three against Pittsburgh. She Chapel llill, N.C., this weekend si vP p Iay n ~--""'...._---"'­led the Irish defense which with games against 1Oth­
or t h (' ". !' (' k held the opposition to just 10 ranked Duke on Friday and 
honors. shots in three games and held top-ranked North Carolina on !left had a hat triek against West Virginia without a shot in Sunday. 

Sampras reaches quarterfinals 
Associated Press the match between No. 8 eel until later," she said. "I 
Agassi and No. 9 Kucera. didn't plan to do the dance. I 
Williams won the final six planned to win the second set 
points of the tiebreaker in her really easy." 
6-1, 7-6 (7-4) win over No. 12 Williams' quarterfinal oppo­
Mary Pierce, celebrating her nent will be No. 4 Arantxa 
win by shimmying to the net. Sanchez Vicario, who won 7-6 
"I really shouldn't have done (7-5), 6-3 over No. 15 Anna 
the dance, I should have wait-Kournikova. 


The Observer/John Daily 
Jenny Heft, who scored five goals for the Irish in their two wins this week, earned Big East offensive player of the week honors. 
YOGA
~ 

A IPHYSIICAL MilENTAl & SPIIRIITUAL WORKOUT. IIDIEAL FOR STRESS MIANAGIEMIENT. FLIEXIIIBIILIITY. 
MONDAYS THURSDAYS 9/17·11/12  STRIENGTH. 9/14·10/26 5:30·6:30 5:30•6:30  $20 $24  
TAl CHI  

semester 




Tuesday, September 8, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Patsy Cline, Sid Caesar, Sam Nunn, Jonathan Taylor Thomas 
Happy Birthday: You'll be eager

lill·n· '"'""'i.t the plctlwra 
to take on just about anything thisol' lolia::<·./.uro fouud a year. You will thrive on tht' changes

parlil'ular looking 
that are going on around you. The hotanist lt'IHiing tn an 
more you do, the more you'll prosper. ,., t'll nwn• particular 
Your eager approach to everything will win you the admiration youlookinJ.: tree. 

desire. You have a chance to reap the rewards if you just push a litlle bit harder. Your numbers: 3, 9, 20, 29, 
35,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your temper will mount at a highly emo­tional level. Don't be too quick to put
BILL AMEND 
all the blame on your mate. Take a 
long walk or spend the day alone if at 
all possible. 000 

FOXTROT 
I'M 11l1NG To LOOK 
"CIVIL WAR BATILEFIELDS"~.. 

"THIS INTERNET 
STuFF uP FoR ScHooL, 
PoRN SITES. "EG"t'PTIAN 

SEARcH ENGINE 
BuT ltD MATIER WHAT 
WATER CANALS"~ PoRN 

IS A J'oKE. 
I EN'IER, IT GIVES ME 
SITES. "WH1TE H;;~SE 
A BUNcH oF LINKS 
PHoToS"?. .. 
To PoRN SITES.' 

DILBERT 
COl'\£ WOR.I<. !='OR OUR. 
:

CON'OULliNG FIRI"\ AND e YOU WILL GET 'THIS E
!

~U5H£.L OF MONEY. g ~ 
CROSSWORD 
No. 0422

CrosswordIEditedbyWiliShortz 
Wanted: 
ACROSS 28 Lustrous fabric 57 "Stop" sign 30 Sailor 60 German article
1 Quark's place 33 Assail 61 Color1ul rock 5 Some are tilled 
our 34 Ted's role on 62 "Pistol Packin' "Cheers"
10 Org for 7 -Down 
14 Command on a 36 "Stop" sign 64 Wankel enginesubmanne 
part 15 Beethoven 
40 Connecticut Ivy 
Leaguers 65 Procedure part 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
[G A RJ.B 01 BAY E D~~:g:~
AlL iJ.E N 0 L I V E ~:!_~ 
IT A[BIL E H 0 P ~~J_~ ~.,!,_4 IIIIIIG N A T S N I C E N E 
' A ' o~o o v o o ' o
C R E A S E L I N E A Rllll OMENS TANGS.ORT L 0 N S S I Z E S E P E E DRY. C 0 P 0 S
ME R~X 
C 
E 

I T C R 
LA ME D FA
-B 
S 
E R 

L Y Rt 
N E R Ml
00 
PSAW~TASER­
'As 'ISHo w ' 
' o ' 'I' • 1 26 English 

fV'rE'f T A P E S. U TJ.TJ.EJR( 
dramatist

ftl-j'i''R 
AT SEA. T S(AJ.RJSJ 
George

c..::.. c...;._ 
DOWN 
1 Tacks on 2 Novice: Var. 3 Track shape 4 Kitten's cry 5 Untamed 6Mountof­
(site near Jerusalem) 7 Astronaut Sally 8 N.Y.C. sports venue 9Whentosow 10 This meant nothmg to Nero 
11 Operating without­(taking risks) 
12 Skyrocket 
13 "The King -" 18 Three sheets to 
the wind 19 Ugandan dictator 23 Game featuring 
shooters 24 Where Provo is 2slnvited 
\ 
ALL WE WANT IN RETUR.N IS TWENTY 
HOUR.S OF WORK E.t\CH DAY ... 

Reporters, feature writers, and photographers. Join The 

27 Supped at home 47 Not a 
29 Starwort 30 School division 31 Watering hole 32 Infatuate 35 Furious 37 Exceptional, as a restaurant or hotel 30 Went by plane 39 Gadget for cheese 44 Sicilian volcano 45 Religion of Japan 
spendthrift 49Aquatic mammal 50 Scurried 51 BuHalo's lake 52 Actress Merrill 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1·900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years 1·888·7-ACROSS. 
IRfo.VEL, NGHT7 \. 
53 Tuckered out 54 Midge 55 Crowning point 

Observer staff. 
56"Ableto­tall..buildings 
sa Freudian factor 59 Early hrs. 

going nature will win hearts almost instantly 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your health may suffer if you haven't been giving yourself enough time to rest. Be It-cry of friends who want you to get involved in their money-making schemes. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Sudden changes concerning your partner may lead to isolation. Don't judge without hearing all the facts. Try to spend some time alone with the one you love.OOO 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Con· centrale on getting your work fin­ished. You are likely to feel a little drained today. Plan to take it easy rather than burn the candle at both ends. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You need to spend time with your friends. Try to arrange to meet for a little game of comp<'titive ball. You can sort out a lot if you can release \'Our excess energy. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 19): You should put in some overtime or plan a full day of work at home if possible. Too much idle time at home will lead to discord with family mem­bers. 00 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Deception on an emotional level could lead to difficulties with friends or those you work with. You should probably do a bit of soul-searching. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of your health. You may be prone lo exhaustion or minor injury. You will have an unrealistic view of your financial situation 000 
-
.. 
.. 
-
01<', 9AD i 
EXAMPLE.~ 
BuT f STILL... f 
SCOTT ADAMS 
AT LEAST THERE'S NO 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may find yourself a little under the weather. Be careful what you con­sume. Lack of concentration could lead to minor accidents, so pay atten­tion to your surroundings. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A business contact may revoke a recent­!y-made offer. Do not sign legal docu­ments without reading between the lines. You should be cautious of groups that want you to invest money.OOOO 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your personal life is anything but smooth. You ha\'e to let go of the past and learn to live one day at a time. Sud­den events may disrupt your routine. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can find an ideal romantic parlner if you participate in functions that entail large groups. Your charisma and out­

dedicatee 16Ger. -the 
ground floor 11 ·stop" s1gn 20 Costa del ­21 Cleanse 22 One olthe 
Brothers Karamazov 23 Unforgettable" smger 24 Gas or elec., eg 25 To p1eces 
41 --de Ia Cite 42 Marconi's 
invention 43 Cub's home 44 To whom Tinker 
threw 46 Alamogordo event 47 Bouillabaisse, 
e g. 48 Tabled'­50 Chairs on poles 53 Anglers luck 54 Guy's date 

The Observer  Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and  D  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community.  D  Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address _______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City----------State _______ Zip_______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

• Mark McGwire hit 
• Juniors Jenny Heft 
his 6Ist homerun of the 
and Jen Grubb earned 
season yesterday, tying 
Big East player of the 
Roger Maris' record. 
week honors. 
PORTS 
p.l2 
p.JB 
O THE 


• SAINT MAR'(S VOLLEYBAlL 
Belles finish last in Invitational 
By EMILY PARKER Sports Writer 
After winning its first match of the season last week, the Saint Mary's volleyball team hoped to add onto the win column again over the weekend. 
Instead, it faltered, dropping all four matches Friday and Saturday and finishing in last place at the Kalamazoo College
... 
Hornet Invitational. 
In the tournament, the team banded together to face Aquinas College, Bluffton, and Millikin twice. But teamwork was not enough, and Saint Mary's now stands at 1-4. 
"We played really good defense, but we didn't play con­sistently enough," freshman Suzanne Martin said. 
Struggling from the start, Saint Mary's was easily taken down in three-set losses to Bluffton and Millikin. 
Bluffton delivered the first blow with the scores of 15-5, 15-10 and 15-8. Millikin fol­lowed the attack. finishing off the Belles 15-3, 15-10 and 15-6. 
"It took us a while to click. Communication was bad," said Mary Rodovich, a junior tri-cap­
• 
• Mu/s Soccn~ 
tain. "We played better Saturday." 
Better did not mean the best, however. as Saint Mary's was also wiped out on Saturday. 
The only bright spot came when the team won its only set of the weekend against Aquinas. 
Still, Aquinas defeated the Belles without much difficulty in the first two sets, 15-6, 15-8. 
Saint Mary's seemed to sud­denly realize it was in a desper­ate situation and fought back in the last two sets. Despite claim­ing the third set 16-14, the Belles buckled in what ended up as the final set, 13-15. 
In their third match against Aquinas College, Joyce said she thought the Belles stood togeth­er. 
"In those two games we really came together as a team," Joyce said. 
Despite the element of team­work, some Belles stood out more than others. 
The two games hosted some outstanding plays and players. 
Martin racked up 60 of her 120 tournament total assists against Aquinas. Meanwhile, sophomore Victoria _Butcko delivered 11 service points. 
But in that one match where it looked like they stood a chance, the Belles were unable to grasp a victory. 
The disappointing matches for Saint Mary's on Friday and early in the day Saturday became recurring nightmares. 
Millikin followed the previous day's battle and obliterated Saint Mary's 15-9. 15-10 and 15-6. 
Some Belles still managed to have shining moments despite the gloomy team performance. 
Freshman Angie Meyers led the squad with 55 digs over the weekend and brought in the team-high with 32 kills. Her stats were shadowed by Agnes Bill, a junior and a team tri-cap­tain, who had 42 digs and 31 kills. Junior tri-captain Jayne Ozbolt had 10 locked kills. 
Rodovich had five service aces followed by Butcko with four. 
On Wednesday, Saint Mary's plays its third straight away match, taking on Hope College. 
"Our defense is really strong and that's going to win us a few games," Rodovich said. "The tournament didn't bring us down. We learned a lot from it and can make it better." 

Irish ready to face Wildcats 


that it can continue its stellar offense. 
"Andrew is an integral part of our team," explained Cox, "but we have a deep bench to replace him with." 
Whatever the case, the Irish will rely on the star trio to score the goals. In the first two games, Cox, Walton and Wells have combined to score five of the team's nine goals. 
"The key for us is that our frontrunners are working together and getting the ball to the goal," said co-captain Matt Johnson. 
Despite the obvious tendency to focus on just the Big East conference matches, the Irish remain intent on preparing and playing well in all their games, including tonight's Northwestern game. 
The two teams battled to a 2­2 tie last year at Northwestern, but a glance at Notre Dame's s1;hed ule shows four consecu­tive Big East teams just past the Wildcat game. 
"Otviously, the Big East is our focal point, but we have to win one game at a time. We can't look that far ahead," said Aris. 
Though tonight's game is a non-conference matchup, the Irish need those wins to land an NCAA Tournament bid. 
"When the NCAA picks teams [for the regional at-large bids]. we can't afford a slipup in the non-Big East games," said co­captain Phil Murphy. 
see SOCCER I page 13 

at Michigan State 
Soccer
at Wisconsin 
Saturday, 7 p.m. 

vs Bethel College 
Friday, 7 p.m. 

SPORTS 
vs Duke 

Today, 4 p.m. 
at Chapel Hill, N.C. 
ATA 
Cross Country 

Cross Country 
Friday, 5 p.m. 

vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler 
at Aquinas College 
vs Northwestern 
Saturday, 11 a.m. 

Friday, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 
Today, 7:30p.m. 

By ANTHONY BIANCO Assistant Sports Editor 
With wins in their first two contests, including a 3-1 win at Syracuse this past weekend, the Irish return to Alumni field tonight to host the Wildcats of Northwestern. 
Notre Dame is riding an attacking wave that has scored nine goals in two games, backed by a defense that let up just two goals. 
The offense has been jump­started by a strong front led by forwards Ryan Cox, Shane Walton, and Scott Wells. Andrew Aris, an attacking midfielder, will be sidelined today with a leg injury. Aris scored a goal on the play in which he was injured, and also nailed an assist in the Syracuse game. 
Yet the squad is confident 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
No one would guess from watching Lindsay Treadwell play volleyball today that she started out as the worst player on her club team in junior high -and was cut from the team the next year. 
Treadwell has come a long way since that inauspicious beginning. A senior from Austin, Texas, she is now the captain of Notre Dame's volleyball team and has the highest career hitting per­centage in Irish history, .309. The middle blocker is also a top candidate for Big East player of the year. 
"I got too tall for soccer and gymnastics," said the five-foot-11 Treadwell. "I stuck with volleyball because I thought it was fun and that I could be good at it. One of the things that helped me was I was playing for myself. I had to pay for club myself. It was my money going into it, not my parents', so I wanted to get something out of it." 
Treadwell's time and money paid off. By her sophomore year of high school, she was named hon­orable mention all-district while playing for the state championship team. She improved each year, and as a senior, Volleyball maga­zine selected Treadwell for its National Prep Fab 50 list. 
Notre Dame head volley­ball coach Debbie Brown attributed Treadwell's suc­cess to her drive and com­petitiveness. 
"She has a pretty fierce competitive drive and really responds to a challenge," said Brown. "She has a drive to excel because she demands so much of herself in practice and games, she's able to demand that of everyone." 
Since her arrival at NO, Treadwell has had a major impact on the Irish. She has played in all but one match in her four seasons here, and as a sophomore, Treadwell was named the MVP of the Big East Tournament. 
Heading into her senior season, she was on the Irish career top 10 lists in ace-to­error ratio (fifth at 1.03) and block average (eighth at .88), in addition to leading the record books in hitting percentage. 
"Lindsay has emotion and intensity," said Brown. "She's an excellent middle hitter. There's really not a skill she doesn't do well." 
Treadwell's most crucial roles for the Irish may be as a captain and as the only fourth-year player on the 
see TREADWELL I page 13 






