
\"'"t­
Wednesday, April 8, 1998 • Vol. XXXI N~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


By REBECCA HAMMEL 
News Writer 
Valerie Gregory, a first year MBA student at the University of Notre Dame, recently received the 1998 Student Leadership Award from the Graduate Business Foundation for her contribution to the establish­ment of the South African Small Business Community Outreach Program. 
The Graduate Business Foundation, a consortium of the top business schools in the nation, addresses issues con­cerning business schools today. The foundation's Student Leadership Award, established in 1991, aims to recognize lead­ership and creativity at the graduate business level and is open to full-time graduate stu­dents at business schools world­wide. 
Beginning this summer, the South African Small Business Association will send four Notre Dame MBA students as interns to provide consulting services for the small businesses in the communities around Capetown. 
The micro entrepreneurial businesses in this area simply are "lacking the basic business 
skills to get beyond where they 
are, according to Gregory." 
In nominating Gregory for the 
Graduate Business Foundation award, Rebecca Mela, assistant dean for the MBA Program, wrote, "Valerie conducted a thorough asses~ment of real­world problem having impact on not only business but also the personal lives of individuals in a developing country. She demon­strated innovation by developing a new approach to the problem; . that is, she envisioned this pro­
'THERE ARE A LOT OF 
OBSTACLES THAT POP 
UP, BUT IT REALLY HONES IN 
ON THOSE ORGANIZATIONAL 
SKILLS.' 
VALERIE GREGORY 
gram whereby MBA students 
would help train small business 
people and transfer knowledge 
and skills to overcome the chal­
lenges they face." 
Gregory developed the pro­
gram in coordination with the 
College of Business 
Administration, individual facul­ty members, Notre Dame's development office, corporations engaged in business in South Africa, private foundations, the Wharton School of Business and the University of Capetown. 
Father Oliver Williams, a fre­quent visitor to South Africa and an expert on the country's polit­ical and economic situation, will act as the faculty liaison for the new program. Williams served as a member of the UN observa­tion team for South Africa's first post-apartheid elections in 1994 and recently was elected chair­man of the American board of the United States-South Africa Leadership Development Program. 
Gregory invested hour of work into realizing her objective, but still managed to keep the task at hand in perspective. 
"There are a lot of obstacles that pop up, but it really hones in on those organizational skills. You have to be flexible and accommodating, step back and look at the big picture and yet keep track of your goals," she said. 
Gregory expresses a strong positive attitude towards her 
see GREGORY I page 6 
I WANTED TO BE TRUTH.. 
WALTER PAITON, PICTURED LEFT 
need to bring the young and old people together," he continued. 
Bringing the young and old together is a goal that Payton continues to strive for by reaching out and helping children. His goal began when he chose a double major in special education and psychology in college because of the joy he derived from helping 
Payton credits football with helping him reach out to children. 
"To be able to reach a child today, [the child] has to have some kind of foundation. You have to build trust. You have to get their attention. Fortunately, football has afforded me this opportunity," he said. 
Additionally, Payton discussed his belief that people impel them­
"Motivation comes from your­self. I always wanted to be the best that I could be. I wanted to be truthful to myself," he said. "The only thing that can keep your dreams from coming true is 
"If money is your motivator, you'll never reach your full poten­tial. Why? Because no matter how much we're paid, we don't think we're paid enough," Payton 
When looking back on his foot­ball career, Payton offered insight 
his beginnings as an athlete,including his most cher­ished moment as a football play­er. 
"Believe it or not. the first time I touched a football, I ran 60 yards in the wrong direction," he said. 
One of Payton's most memo­rable moments came during his last game when he reflected on his career as a player. 
"My last game, people started chanting," he said. "We had some bad teams when I was in Chicago. The reason I stayed was my mom and dad. They said I couldn't quit. When I came to Chicago I was scared but my mom said to me, 'You do the best you can do. Don't try to change anyone else until you change yourself."' 
Payton also addressed the fact that he didn't score a touchdown in the 1986 Super Bowl. 
"I was disappointed for about 10 seconds and then it didn't matter," he said. 
Off th~ football field, Payton also had other endeavors and admitted to being on Soul Train. 
"Let's get it out of the way. I had bell bottoms and I had a big afro," he said. 
His final thoughts included leaving the students in the office with advice. 
"This is the best time of your life when you can be almost grown up and almost be little. You can go back and forth. Please enjoy it, this is the best time of your life." 
By M. SHANNON RYAN · Saint Mary's Editor 

•Hopipg their.§ilenee will s:pe~k ltn,t(iJY for th~ hushed voices Qfgays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgenders, Notre Dame and Saint· Mary's students will remain quiet from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. today as part of the Nation().! Day ofSilence. 
its one of 170<schoo~ involvea in the nationwide event, Notre Dame will focus on the exclusion of sexual orienta­tion in non-discrimination clause and urge recognition
the . · andSa!jltMary's 
--------------------------------------~~------------------... 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Cheer, cheer, for old Notre Dallle 
When was the last  
time you heard the  Anthony Bianco  
Notre Dame light song  Sports Writer  
blaring from a trum­ 

pet'! Or have actu<J,lly been to see the Irish 
light onward to victory? 
If the answer to this question is "sometime last fall when the football team played one of its home games," the.n you've missed out on many of Notre Dame's athletic accomplish­ments and the chance to experience the thrill and excitement that draw so many to Notre Dame football. 
Eaeh day, athletes take to the lield for the Irish in games that few, if any, fans will watch. Instead, most students will overlook these teams and will instead anxiously wait for the football team to blast through the tun­nel next fall. 
I low many students know that the cross­country team competed in the NCAA champi­onships? Or that the volleyball squad went to the Sweet Sixteen this winter? Or that the baseball team is looking for a berth to the NCAA Championships this spring? 
More than likely, the answer to these ques­tions is not many. Yet each of these teams, and most other Irish teams, are always ahead of thfl competition. 
The Irish arc currently ranked 12th in the nation by the Sears Directors' Cup, which gives schools points in caeh sport according to their finish. Notre Dame rarely turns in a weak team. and for the second most athletic student body in the nation, it's time we start supporting our athletes. 
Believe it or not, these lesser-known Irish teams have shown fans the same thrill and exdtemfmt that the teams with the media contracts show. For a true sports fan, Luke LaValle's National Championship in fencing this year, Linda Gallo receiving All-American honors or Hyan Shay running in the World Junior Championships and having the top non-African linish, are flvents in Notre Dame athletics that are just as thrilling as anything that NBC will select for an instant replay in basketball and football. 
School pride is an important part of any col­lege, and part of Notre Dame's success is due to an active student body. Club involvement, interaction in the dorms and volunteer service are all parts of why the IJniversity of Notre Dame has one of the top student bodies in the nation. The same holds true for Irish athlet­ics. Going out to the games continues this stress on school pride. 
The same holds true for the Belles at Saint Mary's. Almost all of the women of Saint Mary's make it out to watch Notre Dame foot­ball. Yet how many of them will make the trek to Notre Dame to watch the Irish softball team, or even the short trip to Angela Athletic Facility to watch their own team in basket­ball? 
The idea is that whether you're a Saint Mary's or Notre Dame student, we all share a common love of competition and victory, and we are the keys to creating the school spirit that resonates beyond the fall football season. 
"We are ND" is more than just a sign held up or a cheer at football games. These three words symbolize the unity in Notre Dame that we should all embody in one of the greatest college campuses. On the playing fields, this means cheer, cheering for old Notre Dame year round. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF 
News Scene Kristi Klitsch Michelle Barton Christine Kraly Graphics Erica Thesing Jon King Sports Production An:hony Bianco Dan Cichalski Viewpoint Lab Tech Ed Llull Patrick Quigley 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Wednesday, April 8, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 

Ivy League, Brown tuitions reach record high 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
After all but one Ivy League school has announced its 1998-99 total stu­dent charges, Brown has emerged as the second most expensive of the eight Ivy schools, with total student charges of$31,060. 
Last year, Brown was third in the Ivy League, behind Harvard and Yale. 
This year, the university pulled ahead of Yale, which is charging $30,830, and clocked in just behind Harvard, whose total student costs Brown announced in February thatwill be $31,132. 
it was increasing tuition by the low­A year's education at the remaining est rate in approximately 30 years ­
Ivies costs between $30,000 and 
3.9 percent. Last year, total student$31,000. 
charges at Brown went up 4.3 per­Nineteen ninety-eight will go down cent.
in Ivy League history as the year that All of the other Ivy League schools
all the schools broke through the have recently announced low per­$30,000 barrier. 
centage increases, from 2.9 percent
It is also the year that all the 
at Yale to 3.9 percent at Penn andschools posted their lowest rate of Dartmouth for total student charges. 

Like Brown, each school boasts that its percentage increase is the lowest in the past three decades. 
But the percentage numbers reported by the schools can be mis­leading. For example, Cornell University only announced its tuition rates, while others announced total student charges, which include tuition, room and board. 
University President Gordon Gee attributed the similarity among the Ivies to increased concerns about the quickly climbing costs of higher edu­cation. He said that schools are under a great deal of pressure to take steps to make a college educa­tion more affordable and to eliminate sharp annual rises in tuition. 
"Universities must be very con­scious of their cost structure -we must moderate tuition," he said. "As hot as Brown is, we cannot afford to have unlimited tuition growth." 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 
President assumes guilt for 10 mix-up 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
University of Arizona President Peter Likins told the Faculty Senate Monday night he is ultimately responsible for releasing student, staff and faculty Social Security numbers to two companies during implementation of the university's new ID card. Likins owned up to his role in the privaey violation before the Senate discussed an April 10 forum to deal with student concerns about the contro­versial CatCard. "We made a dumb mistake," Likins told the Senate. "I take responsibility for failing to recognize it." Likins said before he officially approved the new ID card, a "distressed individual" e-mailed him and said he did not want his Social Security number released to com­panies. While the University of Arizona accommodated the request by issuing the person an identification number dif­ferent from his Social Security number, Likins said the complaint did not alert him to the overall legal issue. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAliFORNIA-BERKElEY 
School goes to court over toxic waste 
BEHKELEY, Calif. 
A grass-roots group along with city of Berkeley offi-. cials announced Monday that a brief has been filed in a lawsuit against the University of California regents for their alleged misuse of toxic waste at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. About 15 members of the Group to Eliminate Toxics said the laboratory and the regents have ignored the community's request for a detailed report on the effects over the past 10 years of their methods of tritium disposal. The UC system oper­ates LBNL and the regents give contracts to the lab. "Before LBNL uses tritium in the lab, they should do a comprehensive study to carefully analyze the impact of tritium," said Michael Freund, the prosecuting attorney. "The report must be a full disclosure on environmental harms and alternatives to what is happening right now." The lawsuit calls for an up-to-date Environmental Impact Report in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act.. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Students file .suit opposing service fees 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
A lawsuit contesting the university's system of student service fee distribution moved ahead Friday, as the uni­versity submitted its formal reply to the suit. The federal 
, case, brought by five university students, is a challenge to the requirement tha:t students pay fees for certain cam­pus groups. In the reply, the school denies the plaintiffs' assertion that their constitutional rights have been violat­ed because they are forced to support groups with id1~as contrary to their own. The complaint, originally filed in February, targets three of the more than 20 student groups funded by the quarterly fees. Plaintiffs allege the University Young Women, Queer Student Cultural Center and La Haza Student Cultural Center have "engaged in political and/or ideological advocacy funded fully or in part by the mandatory fcc." Jordan Lorence, a graduate of the University's Law School, represents the students. 
• STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Policy affects students' privacy 
STANFOHD, Calif. 
Most Stanford students are unaware of a university policy of releasing students' grades to resident fellows and Row office officials. Although the policy is men­tioned in the Stanford Bulletin, many students don't realize that people other than their adviser have access to their grades. According to the bulletin, resident fel­lows are considered "school officials with legitimate educational interests" in a student's academic progress, allowing for an exception to privacy rules. Officials from the Office of Residential Education could not be reached for comment, but resident fellows say such a policy is really in the student's best interest. "Sometimes stu­dents are having personal difficulties" that result in poor grades, said resident fellow Martha Beinin. Another reason for an resident fellow's involvement is that often, according to Beinin, "academic advisers are not involved," making it important for someone else to look out for students. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 8. 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H L 
Thurs~ay 4, 54 45 
Friday ~ 47 » 3S 
1.l 
...............
Satur4ay {)-"~ 56. 35... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C> 1998 AccuWealher, Inc. 

Pressuffl 
H L Ea &'SJ ITI] 0 . ~ 8 i:) ~ u
Sundity "" (,lfr\ 6Sr 36 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
)}'..···,..,/ ........ 
Via Associated Press 
Atlanta 70 60 Denver 52 32 Mobile 78 61 Baltimore 71 55 Fargo 46 32 New York 58 48 Boston 54 40 Helena 50 30 Orlando 85 68
4-~-~9.~8 t) ~ 22 
Columbus 74 52 Houston 84 62 Phoenix 75 53
Showers T·slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Dallas 80 48 Lincoln 48 39 Seattle 54 40 

a e 3 
' 
omens ews 
Wednesday, April 8, 1~98 

Guerrilla Girls act as advocates for women's artwork 
By LISA MAXBAUER 
Women's News Writer 
Guerrilla warfare usually defined as surprise raids led by small military forces has taken on a new face in the art world. 
The Guerrilla Girls, a feminist collective of artists and art professionals which "fights" the discrimina­tion towards women that they say is prevalent in art history. The group's weapons consist not of smuggled machine guns, but of plastic gorilla masks. Their main message is that female artists have been con­sistently overlooked and undervalued and should be adequately recognized. 
The group mainly spreads its message of injustice through aggressive posters that show a humorous side to feminism. Since its founding in 1985, the group has posted nearly one hundred of these satir­ical "public service announcements." The Guerrilla Girls further their cause by attaching posters to the sides of public buses and the stalls of museum bath­rooms. 
The posters feature examples of sexism and racism among cultural institutions the U. S. Government, the American legal system and the Catholic Church. Other messages communicate feel­ings regarding rape, abortion and earning wages. One of their posters displays a dollar bill with a dot­ted line cutting through it. It reads: "Women artists earn only 1/3 of what men artists do." 
The Guerrilla Girls also attend museum exhibits and art organization meetings to loudly voice their opinions about the present state of the art world. However, they utilize the element of surprise as their key asset. They make the claim, "we could be any­one; we are everywhere." 
This alludes to yet another unique aspect of the group: complete individual anonymity. According to group members, they "wear gorilla masks to keep the focus on the issues rather than on our personal­ities." They also assume the names of deceased female artists when they appear in public interviews. 
Gina Costa, a specialist at the Snite Museum of Notre Dame, said that this anonymity is necessary to "present a unified voice." 
Robert Haywood, an art professor at Notre Dame, has witnessed the Guerrilla Girls in action in New York City. He said that the activist group employs "disruptive tactics modeled after civil disobedience [where they) embarrass museums and galleries to expose their sexist and biased practices." 
Haywood believes the Guerrilla Girls' "in-your­face" approach has made a difference in the art world. "It has made people aware ... [and) account­able for the sex of the artists represented," Haywood said. 
Costa feels their message is a necessary one 
because the inequalities of the art world remain so 
evident. "Some men dismiss them as a bunch of 
women on the attack, [but] when they speak, people 
listen," Costa said. 
The group has also entered the world of publishing to communicate their message more holistically. Their latest book, The Guerrilla Girls' Bedside Companion to the History of Western Art, attempts to rewrite art history as art "herstory" by adding the women artists to centuries of lost culture. 
WOMEN AND ART 
Saint Mary's artists launch careers 
By SHANA'E TATE Barbee "created draw­News Writer ings using soft pastels to 
depict objects that deal 
The first of two groups of Saint with a color association Mary's art majors presented their that evokes certain sen­senior comprehensive exhibitions this sations such as anger week, ·displaying the culmination of and peacefulness." four years of studio training and study. Bohan's work is enti­
"This is a wonderful opportunity for tled "Journey of Faith." seniors to develop a body of work," One of her pieces is a said K. Johnson Bowles, the Moreau group of sculptures that 
Galleries director. describes "her identity as The first exhibition features work by a woman in the church." Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Fine Arts Dawson titled her work degree candidates Alisha Barbee "Angelic Intercessions." Catherine Bohan, Kristi Dawson: "In my work I have Allison Holloway and Elizabeth tried to capture those 
Sporleder. personalities that make 
'The art department is very proud my friends guardian of their students and is always very angels," Dawson said. pleased with the professionalism and "Sisters" is the title of seriousness that the students exhibit Holloway's comprehen­in doing their comprehensives," sive work. Holloway 
Bowles said. interviewed six Holy 
The Observer/Manuela Hernandez The projects allow students to Cross sisters about their Elizabeth Sporleder stands next to one of her works. demonstrate their ability to integrate lives and experiences in 
and researching what they would like visual perception, imagination and sisterhood. 
to do," Bowles said of the projects. 
expression. Each student's exhibition Holloway believes that the mission Some art students use their compre­is the result of creative research in a of her work is "to help people see why hensive to produce a portfolio forchosen area such as fibers, painting, any strong woman would want to do graduate school. Other students hope sculpture or ceramics. According to God's will." 
to use their comprehensive as an exhi­Bowles, these exhibits allow students Sporleder's exhibition consists of bition at a gallery in the future. 
"to be a practicing artist." five life-size oil paintings. According to The second exhibition will beginBarbee displayed her "psychedelic Sporleder, the goal is for "each figure April 14 displaying work by Jessicaimpressions" in this week's introduc­to have a sense of presence" by Lentych, Karen Mendlik, Kimtory exhibit. "creat[ingl a relationship between the Michalik, Courtney MoHan, PoogieWith nature as her central theme, painting and the viewer." 
Sherer and Lisa Svelmoe. 
"It is a big investigation into ideas 

----~~-------------------------------------~----------------~------~------------------------~-­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 8, 1998 

SMC Redbud workshops offer sumiTier lessons in fine arts 

By SARA COX 
News Writer 
The Art Department of Saint Mary's College is again planning its annual Redbud Fine Arts Workshops. 
Coordinated by K. Johnson 
Rowles, Moreau Galleries direc­
tor, this two-week intensive pro­
gram offers students and faculty 
a chance to live and work in a 
natural environment. 
"The students are all together 
and really relaxed with an 
encouraging faculty," said 
Bowles. "Students have class all 
day and activities at night, all 
with an emphasis on art and 
nature." 
The program oilers five courses including ceramics, creative writ­ing, fibers, etching and sculpture. High points in the courses include building and firing a "paper" kiln, nature writing, pattern and imagery design. relief printing and sculpturing boxes using nat­ural and human-made materials. 
The program is ideal for stu­dents taking heavy academic loads during the school year who may not have time for summer school. Redbud credits are con­sidered elective course credits [unless denoted SMC CORE] and in most cases, transferable to other institutions. 
"It's wonderful for people to get away from school and dwell into their creativity. It's a blast," said Jill Feller, a two-year Redbud student. 
Students reside at Camp Millhouse, a natural preserve ten miles southwest of South Bend. The campground includes hiking trails and recreational facilities. 
The cost is $850 plus a lab fee which includes room and board, tuition and transportation between Saint Mary's and the camp. Financial assistance is available. 
Founded in 1975, Redbud is continuing its 24th year challeng­ing students of all abilities and experience levels. This year the program is offered from May 18 through May 30 and is open to Saint Mary's students as well as any student at least 18 years of age. 
Instructors for the courses con­sist of Bowles, Laurie McKnight, Gundega Penekis, Bill Sandusky and Max Westler. 
Hedbud impacts a great change in many students, according to its organizers. Many return to their resp~ctive fields with renewed excitement and insight. 
Registration forms can be attained in the Art Department Office, room 226, Moreau Hall and the Saint Mary's College reg­The deadline for registration is May 1. 
"I loved being with the people," said Amy Fors, a former Redbud student. "We describe Redbud as a gathering of the mind and spirit. It was so much fun." 
• CORRECTION 
A headline in yesterday's edi~ tiqn of The Observer misspelled the mun¢ of the Laetare Medal, one of the most prestigious awards conferred upon Catholics in the U.S. 
Additionally. a photograph on the back page was incorrectly identified as being freshman Maura Doyle of the women's lacrosse team. The person pic­tured is freshman Courtney Calabrese. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 
CASTING & ANGLING 
CLINIC Three Sessions 6:00-7: 15 PM Open to ND Students & Employees $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DAT~S APRIL 14 .· . APRIL 21 APRIL 23 

Classes Held in the joyce Center, Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
FOR tbc EDUCATION aud RESEARCH COMMUNITY 

F
or last relief from the nagging ad1l' oj taxes, \\'e ·ecommcnd T!A:\-CREF SR.\s. S!C\s arc tax­deferred annuities that can help you lntild ;tdditional a=--~ets-money that can mal·a· tht' diHL't'C'IIl«' between li\·ing and living 11't// in retirl'ment 
Contributions to SRAs arl' con\·enil'nd,\ tiL·ducted h·nrn your salary on a preta.\ l)a:-1~. Thl' tTsult'! ;\\ore 11HH1L'_\' in\ ested. Fewer laxl':-tHl\\ \nd =-mn_· in\'t'Stmenl earnings are tax dt•ferTetluntil you n•n•i\l' them as incnrnt•. Lhe rnoney you don't "l'tHltP \\'a:-;lnng:ton can \U1J'k en.·n harder l'or you 
\\'hat L"isc do SR:\s ollt-r'! :\full rangl' ol 1n\t'>1nwnl L·hoice~. a ht:'lpt"ulloan feature, and the linant·ialL·xpt.·rti~t· ol' Tl.\:\-CREF. dw \\'odd's largest n·ti1·ement S\ >l<'lll 
Now ,\\on~ \Vays to l\'\e<.~l Your Coal!-­
Tocl.ly Tl,-\:\-C REF can help you meet l'\ L'll llltlll' ol'your !in<uHial ohjecli,·es. \\'ith IR1\s. rnutu.tllur~tl~. arHirnorl'. \\'L·'IIIwlp you seiL•ct the solutrnn~ Jll<ll '11i1 ·'·our ll<'l'ds. \'i:-;it your l>t•nt·lits oflin· or' .til u:-. .tt 
I llOO Xo.~:l-27711 1o learn mll1·v. I)ll it today -it louldn't hurt. 
\ 'isi l us on l ht• Internet at \\'\\'\\'.t iaa-cref'.ot·g· 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it. 
1\.•,.,., 1,,n .....~,-~ u1u 1. 1 l'•·•l•·•r•·lli<'l'' I I \ \ ( \{I .I· lndt\ u lu.ol .uul 111~111 111" •11.1 :--,,., \ ,, , , !1 I o,! •Ilk~ ('I{ !·.1· • t'l'llfi, oil<'~ •lllllllllt·: ,.,._, HI dw II \ \ \{,·.d 1.-.1.<1<' \. • IIIII hor Ill• >I • •1111[ •1··11 old•" llt.•lh•IL un luohn~ 1 halgt·-..llool "'l"'''~··· ..,Ill )>;Ill• K·t:~:!;''i.'i. ,.,\ ."o."o(t!J. lo•l' lh•·t•t·••[""' Ill····· j{,,,l d>·l'• ,,,1,·1111h 1,·1"''.' ••U 111\t'"l '" ~.·n.J mo>la'\ '.! ' 1'<
1 
istrar's Office in LeMans Hall. 

Wednesday, AprilS, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS Iran frees Iraqi POW's 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 
Iran has released nearly 5,600 Iraqi POW's in the last week, including high ranking army generals, in the largest prisoner swap between the two enemies since 1990, the Red Cross said Tuesday. The series of POW exchanges took place under ICRC supervi­sion at the al-Mundariya border checkpoint, 100 miles northeast of Baghdad. In the final swap Monday evening, Iraq freed a pilot who was captured after his plane was shot down at the start of the 1980-1988 war. Hossein Raza Lashgari, 46, was handed over to Iranian authorities along with two other Iranian POWs. Iraq also released some 316 "civil detainees" seized during unrest in southern Iraq following the end of the 1991 Gulf War. 
Truck rear-ends school bus 
CHAPPELL HILL, Texas 
A flatbed truck hauling cars rear-ended a school bus Tuesday, tearing a hole into the backside of the bus and injuring at least eight children, two seriously. The accident, involving a Brenham Independent School District bus, occurred about 4:30 p.m. near Chappell Hill, 60 miles northwest of Houston, said Mike Cox, a spokesman with the Texas Department of Public Safety. The bus had pulled over on a road near U.S. Highway 290 and was letting children off when the truck slammed into its rear left corner, Brenham school Superintendent Virginia Collier said. The left top corner of the bus was ripped, exposing the interior of the bus. Twenty-five students, ages 6 to 18, were on the bus, Ms. Collier said. Two girls, 15 and 16, were taken by helicopter to a Houston hospital. The younger girl was unconscious and in critical condition with a head injury. 
United States, Mexico plan new anti-drug effort 
MEXICO CITY 
Moving to ease a sore point in U.S.­Mexican ties, President Clinton's top drug adviser announced a new way Tuesday to evaluate Mexico's anti-drug effort -a method that would apparently make the nations equal partners in the drug war. Following a meeting with top Mexican offi­cials, Gen. Barry McCaffrey told a news con­ference that the change would apply "con­crete measurements" on the anti-drug efforts of both the United States and Mexico in areas such as drug seizures and arrests. The proce­dure is expected to reduce the political pos­turing that has occurred in the Congress dur­ing the certification process, which has been roundly criticized by Mexico and several other Latin nations. The U.S. government currently certifies every six months whether key nations are cooperating. 
Nasdaq:-76.73 1797.83 

-31.31 
NYSE: 577.75 -5.42 
S&P 500: 
1107.09 
-14.29
8956.50 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER ?tr CHANGE 'iGAJN PRICE 
CLEAN DIESEL CDTI +71.43 +0.938 2.250 TOUCHSTONE SPTWR TSSW +51.35 +1.187 3.500 THORN PLC -ADR HIRNY +36.78 +4.000 14.875 OMNI USA INC OUSA +35.00 +0.437 1.687 SIMIONE CENTRAL SCM I +34.57 +3.500 13.625 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
FUTURE810TICS VITK -28.57 -1.000 2.500 JPE INC JPEI -26.47 -1.125 :1.125 COMPUTER LEARNING CLCX -26.24 -4.62S 13.000 PDKLABS -PFD A PDKLP -25.67 -1.650 4.750 ENHANCED SERVICE ESVS -2S.53 -1.500 4.375 
• NORTHERN IRELAND 
Protestants reject peace accord 

ASSOC1ATED PRESS 
BELFAST 
A major Protestant party rejected a draft peace accord Tuesday, prompting British Prime Minister Tony Blair to rush to Northern Ireland to try to save the result of months of bitter, painstaking negotiations. 
Former U.S. Sen. George Mitchell, the chairman of the eight-party peace talks, wants the parties to use his confidential 65-page docu­ment as the basis for reach­ing a peace accord by Thursday. The Ulster Unionists' rejection of the compromise threw that deadline into doubt. 
"I feel the hand of history upon our shoulders," Blair 
Pe . Airport after flight f_rom Havan~· 
said. "Now, maybe it's impossible to find a way thr~ugh ... but it's right to try. 
David Trimble, leader of the pro-British Ulster Unionists, repudiated the proposed settlement just hours after Mitchell deliv­ered it to the eight parties involved. 
Blair and his Northern Ireland secretary, Mo Mowlam, spent two hours listening to Trimble's criti­cisms of Mitchell's paper. 
Trimble left through a back entrance without com­ment, avoiding about 50 Protestant hard-liners pick­eting the front. Waving plac­ards reading "Stop all talks now!", they blasted Trimble as a traitor conspiring to weaken Northern Ireland's union with Britain. 
Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern plans to fly to Belfast on Wednesday, before returning to Dublin for his mother's funeral. 
Ahern told President Clinton by telephone Tuesday there is "still a fair amount of work to be done." Clinton, speaking from Air Force One on his way to Kansas, replied: "We'll be watching and waiting." 
Blair acknowledged that negotiators from both sides felt "extremely anxious and nervous as the time for deci­sions" grows near. 
The Ulster Unionists rep­resent about half of the north's Protestants, and must be part of an agree­ment. 
But Trimble had told Blair by phone that he couldn't accept many of the plan's recommendations ­most critically, a new cross­border council in which politicians from both parts of Ireland would work together. 
"People want to see progress being made. But they do not expect unionists to sign up to some kind of all-Ireland government," said Ulster Unionist negotia­tor Jeffrey Donaldson. 
The IRA-allied Sinn Fein party wants the cross-bor­der council to wield real power over both parts of Ireland, an idea anathema to most of Northern Ireland's Protestants. 
page 6 development as she worked to set up the program in
Gregory 
South Africa. She received a 


Weditasda9 & April ALUKRI•SEHI8R CLUB 
No Summer Plans?? 
SuMMeR SeRviCe PRoJEcTS 
AV AJLABLE (ND students only) 
•$1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 
•8 Weeks volunteer work In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications available: at the Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available in: Charleston, SC education & community outreach (car) Charlotte refugee program, tutor, etc. Cincinnati local student Cleveland local student Columbus, OH local student Detroit Red Cross -Bone Marrow Drive 
La Sed -Hispanic Comm. Cntr Ft. Wayne Boys & Girls Club (car) Fort Lauderdale Covent House-teens (male-car) Idaho La Posada -migrant workers (spanish) Indianapolis St. Phillip Neri -kids program Kokomo, IN YWCA shelter for women and kids Michigan City,IN camp for devel. disabled adults Plymouth, IN Boys & Girls Club Dixon, IL Disabilities program and more SOCIAL CONCERNS

Stop in for more information or call: Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer 4-1384 
continued from page 1 
experiences with the MBA Program at Notre Dame. 
"We really have a school that is supportive of student initiatives," said Gregory. "I am hopeful that it will encourage students to get more involved in internation­al development work and bring forth their own ideas. " 
Gregory used her profes­sional background in the area of international business 
bachelor's degree in International Affairs and French and a master's degree in International Economics and Development from George Washington University in 1988 and 1991, respectively. Before enrolling in the MBA Program at Notre Dame, Gregory served as a program officer for three years in the U.S. Department of the Treasury and as a pro­ject administrator for two years with the Chemonics International in Washington. 
Silence 
continued from page 1 
The goal of the ~vent can be summed up in one simple word, according to participant Chris Araman: education. 
"So many people on this cam­pus are afraid to enlighten themselves on this topic, said Araman." 
Because of the topic's weight, participants are hoping that even if many students are shocked, the event still will have a powerful, positive effect. 
"I hope it will make people sit down and think, even if it's just at dinner," Araman said. "Then they can come to their own conclusions. With the caliber lof Notre Dame students]. I think there's hope that something can be done." 
The day of silence will burst into an evening of noise with a rally beginning at 5 p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall, signifying the conclusion to the silence. 
For several hours, speeches will be delivered and campus bands such as Skalcoholics and Letter 8 will perform. 
"[Ending this way) will hope­fully show that the day was successful." said Hellrung, "and 
Here it is Easter Week, and maybe you don't know yet what you're doing next year? 
Guess what! You're needed.! 
To teach: 
Religion Social Studies English Mathematics Physical Education Science Biology 
Or to build: 
As a carpenter. 

Call Us. You Can Help! 
Cap Corps Midwest Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps 
301 Church Street Mt. Calvary WI 53057 

THE NOTRE DAME POMPON SQUAD 

will be holding 
TRYOUTS 
for the 1998-1999 Squad! 
April16-April20 
COME TO THE FIRST CLINIC April 16; 6-9 pm JACC-Auxiliary Gym (Pit) 
All NO and SMC Women invited[ 
------------------~---------------·-----------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 8, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Dallmayr: Grassroots globalization is a better alternative 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
Grassroots globalization that begins on the local level is a better alternative than funda­mentalism or global hegemonic domination, according to Notre Dame professor Fred Dallmayr. 
Dallmayr lectured in the Hesburgh Center for Inter­national Studies yesterday on 
the topic· "Globalization: Curse or Promise?" 
He approached the topic from the theoretical point of view, referencing the writings of prominent Western thinkers, evaluative assessments by those affected by globalization and the theory that the world is far from being one global soci­ety. 
"In many ways, this [grass­roots globalization] seems to be the only promising path today, the path which preserves the promise of globalization," said Dallmayr, a fellow in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Globalization is a world-wide phenomenon, and as part of this process, borders between nations and cultures are bro­ken down. This has traditional­ly occurred through the spread of Western culture to other countries, such as those in the Third World. 
As part of this Western expansion, the United States now has a greater influence on other countries than any other country has had throughout history, Dallmayr said. 
The question of whether glob­alization has been largely posi­
tive or negative has yet to be resolved. Dallmayr commented that although globalization can generate new dynamism in tra­ditional societies by freeing the under castes, many local lead­ers in Third World countries view it as a curse because it has often come through colo­nization. When taken too far, remarked Dallmayr, globaliza­tion can contribute to inequali­ties and marginalization by overshadowing the historical

Interested in being on the SLF committee next year? 
Pick up an application outside the SUB office. Due Friday, 
P~pril 17 
..... 
For information call jim Bilek at 4-1744 
means beyond controversy as we know it," Dallmayr said. 
Two of the main driving forces of globalization are the nation-state and the eco­nomic market, commented Dallmayr. He put forth the possibility that a third force of independent organizations in civil society can act as a mediating institution between the local and the national. 
Dallmayr mentioned sever­al key figures who have sup­ported grassroots globaliza­tion, including Martin Luther King, Jr.; Mother Teresa, Gandhi, and Socrates. Through cross-cultural dia­logue and interaction, along with advocacy for the spread of cultures beyond tradition­al borders, Dallmayr believes that grassroots globalization can be successful, although the historical momentum is in the opposite direction . 
"Grassroots globalization can only be seen as a pledge, 
not a promise," Dallmayr
• commented . 
The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
John and Anne Paulk 
Five years prior to meeting each other, John and Anne Paulk dramatically embarked upon leaving their respective gay life­styles. Their quest for answers led them to Exodus International, the nation's oldest organization aimed at helping men and women overcome their homosexual desires. It was there that they met, became friends, fell in love, and eventually married in 1992. 
Since then the Paulks have shared their remarkable story of transformation extensively in national and international media, including Oprah, Good Morning 
America, ABC's World News Tonight, and most recently, in a segment that aired three weeks ago, 60-Minutes. 
John began a Christian ministry to help those who were searching for freedom from their homosexual called the Portland Fellowship. Anne became president of the Oregon affiliate of Exodus International. Recently, John was hired by Dr. James Dobson, and he now works for Focus on the Family. John and Anne spend much of their time raising their son Timmy, who was born in December of 1996. 
John and Anne will be at Notre Dame to tell their own stories of love and transformation. 
Wednesday, April15 Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 8:00 p.m. 

the Strake Foundation 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, April 8, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS ElliTOR .................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER .........................Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo LluJI AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow 
Kristi Klitsch CONTROJ.LER ..................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ............ Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........... .. .... Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhc independent newspaper published by rhc smdems of rhc University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. h does nm necessarily reflect rhc policies of the administration of either insrimrion. The news is rcponetl as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi10rials represent rhc opinion of the majority of the E.ditor~in~Chief, Managing Editor, A~isranr Managing Ediwr and department editors. Commentaries, letter.~ and columns present the views of the amho~. and nm nc=cessarily tho!!.c ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Not~ Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free" expression ofvarying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 63 I -4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-454 I Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 63 I -4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.<.:c.nd.edu Office Manager/General information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• AWAKENINGS ABROAD 
U.S. Violence And The Northern Ireland Question 
This is a critical week in the ongoing Northern Ireland conflict. The British government has imposed an Easter deadline for the involved parties to aceept an agreement based on the framework of a deal released yesterday by the peace talks ehairperson George Mitdwll. 
J.P. 
Cooney 
Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern have agreed to dear their diaries and fly to Belfast to see a deal through if necessary. Mitchell has ordered negotiators to stay in talks into the wee hours of the morning, halting only li>r food and naps. This deadline may actually be for real. 
It seems possible that the Ulster Unionists, the primary political group favoring unwavering allegiance to Great Britain, and the nationalist-leaning Social Democratic and Labour Party, will hop on board the Mitchell plan. The Mitchell plan will include an elected Northern Ireland assembly with highly restricted powers designed at preventing an even­tual declaration of independenee or ces­sion to Ireland; the plan will bestow con­siderably less power upon this assembly than will be granted to the soon-to-be­eleeted Scottish and Welsh assemblies. 
This is not surprising, as it will give the SDLP something tangible it ean take baek to its constituency, and remain within the Ulster Unionists' requirement for any deal-that it not be a stepping stone for reunification. 
The problem is that Sinn Fein, the political wing of the IRA, seems certain to be left in the dust. It looks as though Blair may be prepared to move ahead without their cooperation, which will cause factionalization within the republi­can movement and almost certainly cause fringe groups to bring the two-year cease-fire to a halt. Within weeks, Belfast and London may return to the state of alert it was in just five years ago, or so. 
This is the worst case scenario, and there is still a chance that the talks will be extended or that the deal will prove a non-starter, averting a crisis for the 
imme­diate future and trapping the situation in the same dead-end it's been in for years. But imagine living in Belfast or London right now; imagine being in your dorm room at Notre Dame and having a pamphlet shoved in your face telling you what to do in the event of gunfire or a bomb scare. Or imagine being a shop­keeper whose store was destroyed by a bomb just two years before and hearing on the news that the peace negotiations are on the verge of breaking down. 
I'm somewhat exaggerating the extent of the current Northern Ireland situation. The impression we get here is that there is little chance that bombing in London will begin again or that gunfire will plague Belfast (although targeted repub­lican and unionist shootings have contin­
ued). However, potentially being trapped in the middle of a heated, political crisis that could involve violenee has cer­
tain­ly caught my atten­tion. It makes me thankful that we don't have prob­lems like this in the 
United States. The thing is though, we do. At Notre Dame we're sheltered from the harsh realities of urban violence, which though subdued due to the strength of the economy, still plagues thousands. What is different is that the threat in the U.S. is not posed by an organized political faction or by rival­ing religious groups, but by despair and loss of hope. 
Kids are killing kids, fathers are aban­doning their families for drugs, and peo­ple are sleeping in the streets because they've lost their will to sueeeed and lost faith in the American Dream. What do you expect-what would you do if you were not provided with the skills and resources to eompete in the fiereest of all environments? 
If residing amidst a tenuous political situation is unnerving for me, what must it be like for someone living in Ameriea's inner-city-someone who has probably had to duck or run from a spray of bul­lets before? What makes this disturbing for me is that, in America, we have the wealth, resources and politieal institu­tions to address these problems and yet we perpetually fail to address them well. Perhaps it is impossible to restore shat­tered dreams'? I think, more likely, it is a lack qf backbone and will. 
While I do not approve of the unionists' or republieans' unwillingness to come to an agreement, a part of me understands their determination and commitment to their cause (although, often I wonder if the leaders involved are really interested in achieving peace or just fulfilling their individual politieal ambition). 
No one can solve the Northern Ireland crisis because the cloud of religious and politieal division will always hover over­head; some shred of distrust and conflict will always exist. But in the U.S., there is no cause worth defending that would perpetuate the violence-we're fighting against ourselves and everyone is losing. It's time we open our own peace talks, and set a deadline as stringent as Mitchell's portends to be. 
J.P. Cooney is a junior economics and government major currently enrolled in the London Program. lie can still be reached via e-mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
IF 7Hel?e'5 ON& lHING I C5PI~
ANYtvA't 5/Nce. 
A80UT&IN7 6AY, IT'3 7HIS/NI?I9­
CHASE ANI?I HAV& 
CI?£el; IN-YOUR-rACE, CARNIVAL
8/ZN 7DGCTHE.R.FOR. 
CUl-TUR& OFFlJU IJI!iCL05UR£!
A avfiL£, I FIGUR&f) 
7HAT5NtJTtUHATItutWTASAGAY'
IT tu45 17M£tv& 60T 7()KNJ(,UtfAG/'. (J!J6?'5 FAMI­
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"An Irish queer: a fellow who prefers women to drink." 
-Sean O'Faolain 
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 8, 1998 page 9 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Facts Seem Clear: Garrick North Versus South Homilies Subpar 
This letter is in response to some comments importantly, would he let his cause lose face? heard about David Freddoso's article on April By admitting that maybe he was not discrimi­
-and Everyone Else 
6. Upon hearing the shocking news that nated against because of his sexual orienta­
I opened my copy of The Observer Monday, March 30, and prepared to be entertained by it's witty cartoons and enlightening columns. My eyes happened to fall on the headline South Quad: The Great North Parasite. 
This was the beginning of the emotional rollorcoaster I went through that Monday. At first I thought, "Oh boy, another article about Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. How funny." My expectation of humor was dashed as I learned that the parasite referred to was South Quad-the South Quad of ND, the South Quad I was on. 
Shocked and insulted, my tiny, worm-like brain sought to defend itself, "But it's all Notre Dame! But my parents pay tuition too! What do they expect? It's STYROFOAM!" But ultimately resorted to denial, "No!" as I learned that being a member of the "Notre Dame community" wasn't enough anymore. 
Then. my spirits lifted. "Wait a second!" my friend said, "we aren't parasites-we live on West Quad (Let's hear it for O'Neill!)." I was human once more and I was elated. 
"But wait," my mind thought, "if we live on West Qua._d, and are eat­ing at South Dining Hall, then we're worse then the tapeworm that is South Quad. We're like the nasty lit­tle virus (which is barely considered a life-form) that infects the tape­worm." 
My spirit fell once more, reaching an all-time low. Hoping no one would notice us, my friend and I slunk out the side door of SOH and fell to the safety of the Golf Quad. 
Though I'd managed to forget about my lowly, virulent status while back at O'Neill, I was remind­ed upon taking my first step from West to South. My friend and I could speak of nothing else but our dejec­tion and dishonor. We wished we were cool, we wished we were human once more, we almost wished we lived in Zahm ... 
Passing the South Quad's Dining 
Hall made us realize that we, the 
members of West Quad. had no 
right to eat there. The honorable 
thing for us to do would be to forage 
for berries, edible grass, or tasty 
tree bark and to hunt and kill the 
squirrels of West Quad for food. 
(Lord knows there are enough of 
them.) 
Thinking of the Lord, that, made 
us remember God Quad and conse­
quently, Mod Quad. Those poor 
unfortunate souls were in the small 
boat we were in: They were para­
sites, too-eating food that doesn't 
belong to them. 
With great fear and trepidation 
we passed into North Quad-we 
didn't mean to intrude, honest! It's 
just that we had class, and had to ... 
According to authors of the letter 
referred to above, it wasn't just the 
Dining Hall, but also the Library and 
the other buildings of North Quad 
that we were infecting. We were pil­
grims in an unfriendly land. Luckily, 
no one noticed the traces of West 
Quad clinging to our hats and bags 
and shoes. and we were able to 
escape safely from our physics 
class. 
"What is this?" we thought. 
"We're not defenseless, we're not 
worthless. Hell, we have the entire 
Golf course!" 
Hmm ... A plan began to form in 
our minds-what does North Quad 
really hav.e-North Dining Hall, 
Parking Lots, Nieuwland Science 
Hall, The Library, Stonehenge, 
Zahm and Stepan Center. 
We noticed that missing from 
their illustrious and lengthy list 
were the Grotto, the Basilica, the 
Dome, LaFortune, Old College, the 
Log Chapel, the oldest dorm on campus and the fine hall that is Walsh. God Quad was fairly well set, so we moved to our own dear West Quad, boasting McGlinn field, the McGlinn basketball courts, the entire sprawling expanse of the Golf course. the Morris Inn, and the New Bookstore. Mod Quad, separated from the rest of campus by the hate­ful North, boast the Administration Building and most importantly , the Pasquerilla center. 
Finally South Quad, offended grievously by the arrogant North, was determined to possess EVERY­THING ELSE. The JACC, the Rock, the Bookstore, the house that Rockne built, all belong to South. 
Fiery pride and determination grew in me (remember, it was an 

emotional day for me). A coalition would be formed! A coalition with His Holiness the Lord and God Quad, the fine fighting men and women of the ROTC programs, Mod Quad and South Quad -replete with the spirit of Notre Dame and the anger of a tapeworm's wounded pride. The West Quad would unite campus and lead an attack against the North! Ha ha! 
The strike would come in the evening as the unsuspecting Northerners prepare to dine on real trays and metal silver-wear. From the East would come the Mod divi­sion, moving in the NOH's north entrance. Meeting it's allies from the East, South, West and God divi­sions would support the Mod Quad, entering through both south and north entrances after securing such key positions as Stonehenge and the Library. We will surround and cap­ture the arrogant, proud forces of the North and prevent any from attempted escape. 
After the splendid victory feast of warm food and real utensils, we would march our prisoners to the gloomy interior of South Dining Hall and force them, at plastic knife point, to eat cold, indiscernible "food" off of flimsy, non-recyclable polystyrene and useless, distorted plastic-wear. What a glorious day it will be! 
Order will be established in the North by representatives of the four Quads of the coalition, and the fruits of North Quad will run free to all, and all will be happy. The subjugat­ed will be forced out of North for .all things but sleeping and class. Passports, documentation, and visas (or maybe just the student ID card) will be required to eat at NOH or use any non-North Quad facility; all but those of North will be allowed to enter. Victory will be ours! Viva Ia Resistance! 
Brian Laughman Freshman, O'Neill March 30, 1998 
Father Garrick is indeed a bad homilist, some people doubt the media and believe the activist. 
Whatever the journalist may say, some of us unconsciously decided that if a person with a homosexual orientation appeared to have been discriminated against, it had to be because of the orientation and not because of anything else. Some reasonable people accept the theoretical possibility, but they act as if it was impossible in practice for people in power to act morally, at least on occasion. We judged, or rather, pre-judged the admin­istration and, before hearing all the facts, declared it guilty of unjust discrimination. 
That is precisely why the University did not want to include sexual orientation in its legal­ly binding non-discrimination clause. The University wanted to be able to get rid of sub­standard students, teachers, staffers, and yes, bad homilists, even if they call themselves gay. 
If after Mr. Freddoso's article we say: "He used to give homilies, he came out, and now he doesn't-that's all we know for sure any­way," we are not giving the Basilica staff even the benefit of the doubt. We just assume that Garrick had to have been a good enough homilist, regardless of what we hear. 
The fact is that administrators lie, that is true, but so do professors. Defenders of morality twist the truth (against the morality they preach), but activists are also known to exaggerate beyond recognition. We should ask ourselves this question: After generating great controversy by coming out, after partic­ipating in most rallies on the issue, after being probably the most public pro-gay figure on campus, how likely is it that Garrick, when pressed for an answer, might admit to The Observer: "OK, so I wasn't invited back to the Basilica because I am long-winded. Got a problem with that?" 
Could he afford to lose face like that? More tion but because he didn't know when to stop, the gay cause would have lost the only example of discrimination (on their favored grounds) they could come up with to make public. 
The point is: why is it so hard to believe that a priest who happens to call himself gay could be a bad public speaker? Garrick did give homilies at the Basilica after he came out, and before he went on sabbatical, so that cannot be a reason for our closed-minded­ness. Maybe it is because pro-gay advocates do not wish to believe that they can be wrong. There is nobody in the world harder to convince than a dogmatic activist. 
It seems that, in the minds of a growing section of society, "coming out" is a perfect defense against being fired, suspended, or not being invited back for good reason, at least in cases where the truth is hard to prove. 
Now that I think about it, a little letter to The Observer would come in handy in the case I find I'm not doing so well in Graduate School. 
I know that by writing this letter to the edi­tor I am going to lose some good, close friends in the pro-gay camp. It will be ironic, because, out of all people, I have little doubt that it is them with a homosexual inclination who know the most about exclusion, about ex-friends, about pain and loneliness. And therefore, when those friends of mine no longer talk to me (as will happen), I will remember that this situation is not only iron­ic, but also very sad. For I believe that the last persecuted minority, silenced and coerced into a sub-culture, is that of the Catholic, that is, the one who believes all that the Bride of Christ teaches. 
Gabriel Martinez Graduate Student, Economics April?, 1998 
Basilica Reasons for Garrick's 'Lack of Invitation' Ridiculous 
My thanks to Father John Jenkins and Bishop Daniel Jenky for clarifying the reasons for Father Garrick's "lack of invi­tations" to give homilies at the Basilica in the April 6 edition of The Observer. I have to admit that I didn't realize the Basilica is run on such a democratic basis. If the parishioners don't enjoy a priest's sermons, they can complain until that priest is no longer "invited." I say more power to the people!! Parishioners of the world unite!! 
Since,we can have such an influence on church affairs because of the democratic structure, we should take even greater advantage of these opportunities. No· more boring sermons! Do away with lengthy preachers! God forbid parish­ioners should have to sit through more than a ten minute sermon. Although many Protestants sit through sermons as long as 60 minutes, I say to Hell with them. My butt would get too sore, I wouldn't listen after the first ten minutes anyway, and I'd probably he thinking about what I wanted to eat for lunch. 
But for the priests who stay within the ten minute rule, I advocate a more effec­tive communication process than the cur­rent phone-in method. After all, the head of the Basilica should have a more sys­tematic compilation of the people's opin­ions. Why don't we hand every parish­ioner a piece of paper and a pencil as they enter the sanctuary. After the ser­mon, each person should write down their rating of the sermon on a scale from one to ten. The cut-off for further "invita­tions" should be at least an average of 7.0 since in academic standards, this score is the equivalent of a C-. Ratings should be based on length, sobriety of presentation, quality of message and engagement of the audience. 
Since activism has been on the rise on campus, I say a bunch of us should gather together outside the Basilica and also have a rally. We could hold signs of protest which name all the poor public­speaking priests on campus until their names are removed from the invitation list. We could collectively chant over and over: We want, clap clap, pithy sermons, clap clap! Repeat. We hate, clap clap, dull priests, clap clap. Repeat. For the priests we enjoy, we could give a monthly People's Choice Award. 
In fact, now that I think of it, why don't we (meaning students) gather together at the end of each semester to protest the faculty who give dry, boring lectures­and certainly any who go over time. Instead of the teacher evaluations (which the faculty actually take seriously), we could compile lists of professors we don't enjoy, and have a phone-a-thon. We could take turns calling department chairs to complain about this professor or that one. If the Basilica is run on a democratic basis, then surely each academic depart­ment utilizes democratic processes. We could call in complaints over and over until certain faculty are "uninvited" from teaching classes in the future. The departments can just let them do research. Nobody reads that stuff any­way. 
As the process currently stands, faculty are given "warnings" if their evaluations are pretty bad, so they do take them seri­ously. But I say they shouldn't receive warnings. Just "uninvite" them by not putting their names in the next course schedule. That will teach them! Surely they wouldn't make th,e same mistake twice, even if they're not told why they were uninvited to teach. · 
If anyone is interested in participating in such a rally or a phone-a-thon, please send me an e-mail. I can be reached at Boeke.l @nd.edu. I say that the Women's Resource Center, aka the Progressive Student Alliance, shouldn't have ALL the fun when it comes to rallies and parades! 
Kristine Boeke Graduate Student History Department April 7, 1998 
8cene 
page 10 ---------------------~OBSERVER ---------------Wednesday,April8, 1998 


Taco Bell offers several types of
Don Pablo's 
I value meals. The No. 7 meal consist­ed of a regular taco, a chicken fajitasilences echoes wrap and a medium beverage. When purchased as separate items, the meal would have cost $4.16. With the
of "Yo Quiero 
value meal, the customer saves $0.39 
Taco Bell" 
Don PaLlo's 
ByRACHELTABANGCURA 
Scene Writer 
Clever, more frequent advertising and lower prices have made fast food restaurants an appealing meal option for everyday life. A tasty meal for less than live dollars is hard to resist, especially to the col­lege student. What is also hard to resist. however, is thn occasional temptation to indulge in a nice meal at a popular dine-in restau­rant. 
In all aspects of the fast food battle. Taco Bell has won. No one can beat their prices. and thn talking Chihuahua has everybody thinking of Taco Bell. 
Don Pablo's, however, has also made quite a name for itself in the dine-in restaurant world. Their menu features authentic fajita platter easily made about three wrapped fajitas and also came with side orders of beans and rice. The total meal cost $9.44. 
If a very quick meal is what you are looking for, Taco Bell is an excel­lent choice. The.meal is ready before hot or mild sauce. There wasn't enough chicken, however, and the vegetables were slightly limp. Despite all of that, the wrap tasted great and, combined with the taco, was satisfying. 

For hot, fresh food made just the 
way you like it. Don Pablo's is 
definitely worth the wait. The time factor was not particular­ly significant. The food was ready in just fifteen minutes, and all waiting time was com­pensated for with complemen­tary chips and salsa. The entire visit took a little less than an hour. 
The chicken fajitas were presented on a sizzling platter, with 11our tortillas in a warming case and fixi11gs in a bowl on the side. The chicken was juicy and had been soaked in a delicious marinade, and the vegetables. were fresh and crisp. The meal was more than satisfying, which was made apparent by the leftovers that the waiter elearnd from the table. 
In the battle between Taco Bell and Don Pablo's, both arc winners. Clearly Taco Bell wins the value battle. Taco Bell is infamous for its pocket-change meals. While Taco Bell's food is also tasty, Don Pablo's wins the quality contest. The hot fresh food is 
Mexican dishes cooked-to­order in a charming atmosphere. and pays only $3.77. 
Is there really that much of a dif­Don Pablo's does not offer compa­ference between the two restau­rable value meals. They offer combi­rants? When time is a factor, it's nation plates, but the individual obvious which choice to make, but all items on the plates cannot be pur­possible constraints aside, one chased as separate items. There is no restaurant must prevail in quality meal that combines chicken fajitas and value. with regular tacos, but the chicken 
or without cheese. 
Bruno's satisfies 
After these appetizers, you are ready to move on to the main course, which willtaste buds and most likely be Bruno's fabulous pizza. One piece of advice -if you order an extra
wallet for pizza­large pizza, expect a gargantuan size that almost requires you to move to a bigger table.
loving diners 

costing just over ten dollars, you can leave feeling satisfied that you did not waste your money. 
However, if you are really short on cash, Tomassito's Pizza might be just what you need. but Tomassito's, loeated in LaFortune, cannot draw a serious com­parison to Bruno's in taste and quality. 
Instead, it must rely on other you even get a chance to finish filling your drink at the soda fountain, but this advantage is countered by a slight disadvantage. The food is only lukewarm and was obviously assem­bled from precooked ingredients. 
The chicken fajita wrap was very flavorful and did not need additional 
However, I recommend not using the restroom when you eat at Bruno's. When you wash your hands, be prepared for icy cold water to nearly freeze your hands. And don't look for any relief from the hot water faucet, because the water only seems to get colder. So, it is probably best to wait until you come back to Notre 
worth the wait. and their prices are also very reasonable. 
Overall, Don Pablo's proves to be the most sound choice. The prices fit the quality and size of the meals, and the atmosphere adds to the enjoy­ment. 
aspects in order to be considered 
By ADAM MALLORD 
a decent place to eat.
Scene Copy Editor 
The best reason to eat at
Bruno'§ 
Tomassito's is its low cost. You
The opportunity to consume 
can order a cheese pizza for
decent food rarely arises at 

under eight dollars, so with a
this university. However, if 
group the cost is very reasonable. 
you are willing to drive about 
One item you have to get are
20 minutes, good food is 
Tomassito's breadsticks. The
exactly what you will get. 
breadsticks are fantastic and,
Bruno's Pizza (on Prairie 
costing under two dollars fiJr fiJUr,
Avenue) provides students 
are also a bargain. They are
with an opportunity to eat 
served with either cheese sauce
autlwntic Italian pizza and 
or pizza sauce. The dmes1~ sauce
pasta not found at 
has an additional cost, however,
LaFortune's Tomassito's. 
so get the pizza sauce inst1md.
The dim lighting and con­
Another benefit of eating at
stant background chatter cre­
Tomassito's is the option to order
ate a relaxPd atmosphere 
slices of pizza individually rather
perfect fiJr a group outing or a 
than waiting filf an entirn pizza to
romantic date. The walls are 
be made. This is a gr1~at situation
decorated with pictures of 
for all student-, in a hurrv. which 
past Notre Dame quarter­
basically aceounl-, fill" evei-yone.
backs. coaches and other 
However, Tomassito's pizza is
Irish heroes. 
nothing to get excited about. In
One problem surfaces when 
fact, if Notre Dame had fast fiJOd
you receive your nHmu -the 
restaurants on-campus, then
appetizers arn so delicious 
that they are impossible to 
pm;s up. Bruno's hrrilled moz-
But, for now, if you nelld to eat
zan~lla cheese sticks are irre­
fast, then Tomassito's might be
sistible. espedally if you enter 
the place for you. You'll be happy
the restaurant with an empty 
with the cost and the breadsticks. 
stomach. However, you might want more 
The taste of Bruno's pizza will seriously Dame, where you can wash your hands If you do have the time though. drive
than one order if you are sharing them 
make you laugh at what the North Dining comfortably. down to Bruno's Pizza and enjoy the
with a group since they do not last long. 
Hall calls "pizza." Sure, it may look like Yes, Bruno's Pizza will make your taste atmosphere and the delicious food you
The garlic brnad served at Bruno's is 
pizza, but you will agree after eating at buds happy, but your wallet will not be might not be able to find anywhere dose
also excellent. and you can order it with 
Bruno's that it isn't. upset either. With an extra large pizza (Just don't use the bathroom). 
----~-~~--~·~~~~~~~ 
8cene 
Wednesday, AprilS, 1998 ---------------~OBSERVER ---------------------------------------------pagell 

meal, super-sized, costs $4.18 cents, ness and speediness are not any of the lineman, steer for the super pub.
CJ's burger makes 
tax included. If you like burgers and available choices. If, however, you As far as taste, no place competes fries, the Whopper extra value meal is want a cheap, satisfying meal, head to with CJ's burger. CJ's special season­the grade with definitely the way to go. Burger King. ing (available for $4.95 separately) The establishment itself, however, The true destination of burger creates a sensational burger. TheirNotre Dame lacks appeal. The typical elevator lovers, especially Notre Dame or Saint burgers are juicy, tasty, and cooked to music and generic pictures are Mary's students, has to be CJ's Pub. perfection. For the fickle, CJ's offers a "half and half' ($3.00)-half an
students 

order of waffle fries and half an order of onion rings. BothBy MATT HUDSON 
the fries and onion rings are
Scene Writer 
tastier than Burger King's. CJ's may have a limited selec­As everyone knows, the 
tion of soft drinks compared to
work on the South Dining 
Burger King, but as many of­
Hall has caused numerous 
age students know, at CJ's you 
uprisings in everyone from 
can wash down your burger
environmentalists to con­
with a cool. glass (plastic cup) 
cerned NOH patrons. 
of beer. If you are willing to
Whether it be the cold, buf­
spend a few extra bucks, you
fet style meals or the dev­
are in for a real treat at CJ's.
astatingly immortal plates 
The friendliness of CJ's
of polystyrene, many stu­
employees such as Ricky Joe
dents have left the intolera­
and Cindy clearly out does that
ble conditions of South 
of any Burger King. The insin­
Dining Hall. As many NOH 
cerity of Burger King disap­
patrons have pointed out. 
pears at CJ's. Instead, you find
some frustrated South 
that the establishment gen­
patrons have flooded NOH, 
uinely cares about you. your
ereating chaos of cosmic 
food, drinks, and otherwise.
proportions. Now. both din­
Unlike Burger King, half the
ing hall patrons have side­
CJ's experience revolves
skirted all the campus 
around the atmosphere. The
madness by venturing off 
"nostalgia wall" located in the
campus in search of better, 
rear of the building boasts pic-
tastier, and more environ­
tures of students performing
mentally sound meals. 
all sorts of activities. Spend
When it comes to off cam­
the few extra minutes waiting
pus dining, nothing can 
for your burger, glancing at
outlast America's favorite 
these crazy collages. A little
meal: burger and fries. As 
reminders of dentists' waiting rooms. As the menu states, CJ's is "Home of warning, however -the faint -of­
always, even in the case of burgers, 
The ever-present brown tiles, pene­the world famous super pub burger." heart should steer clear of any close
students need to tackle the issue of 
trating disinfectant spray, and over­Located at 417 N. Michigan St., CJ's inspections. Perhaps the only place
cost over quality. 
all greasy feel of Burger King, are all has served the South Bend community with more Notre Dame paraphernalia
Boasting more th'an 10 Burger 
somewhat repulsive. Rows of pre­for almost 15 years. then the bookstore, CJ's even has a
Kings, South Bend could very well be 
made burgers and racks of fries can Although CJ's, like Burger King, football helmet hanging behind the
the fast food capital of the Midwest. 
even compete with South Dining Hall's offers a limited variety of food, look bar. A wall of autographed pictures
And when it comes to burgers, few 
buffet line for grossest food display. no further than the burgers. The from such football stars as Rick Mirer
are as well known as the Whopper. 
In other words, if you want a prices for the standard super pub gives any patron a sense of pride to
Made with a 100 percent all-beef 
Whopper, order it "to go." burger, the minimum half-pound, beef eat at CJ's.
patty, sesame seed bun, lettuce, toma­
As far as fast food, it seems that patty served with anything from Some will say that Burger King rep­
to, mayonnaise, ketchup, onion and 
many of South Bend's finest have left mushrooms to bacon, ranges from resents everything American.
pickles, this dripping creation certain­
out the fast. Neither the drive-thru or $4.75 to $6.25, tax not included. For Burger King offers cheap, satisfying
ly tastes good. 
"to go" line will save you much time. those that wish to "eat like a champi­meals. CJ's on the other hand repre­
For the hungry at heart, one can 
The people behind the counter are on," as the menu says, CJ's offers The sents everything Notre Dame. In
either super size the meal for thirty­
certainly in no hurry to please the Golden Domer. Consisting of over a other words, CJ's is a right of pas­
nine cents. increasing fry and drink 
customer. pound of beef with the works, fries, sage, one step that every student
size or demand the Double Whopper. 
"Burger King restaurants have long and a pickle, this Frankensteinish cre­should take on the road to graduation.

The greatest thing about Burger King 
been committed to giving customers a ation costs $11.75. Unless you pride
is the price. A Whopper with cheese 
choice." Apparently courtesy, cleanli-yourself on your eating ability or are a 

Apparently the Olive
Fazoli's perfect 
Garden waiting room observes a special form of
Fazoli's 
Daylight Savings Time, because when we returned at 8 p.m., we were told 
place for the 
Italian-lover on 

that our names had been called "a long time ago."
the run We were given the next available seat, and the By FINN PRESSLEY 
meal proceeded very Scene Writer 
smoothly. Our service was fast. efficient and veryAccording. to its advertise­
friendly. With appetizer, 
ments. Fazoli's, located about salad and entree, the meal l'ive minutes north of eampus, came out to about fifteen 
serves "Italian food .. .fast." 
dollars per person, and 
While the 'food was surpris­
certainly worth every
ingly good for the price paid, penny.
the atmosphere left a little to Overall, a complete tripbe desired. 
to Fazoli's took half the 
The overall theme of the din­
time spent waiting for a 
ing area appeared to be 
table at the Olive Garden,
"screaming children." 
not to mention the fact 
Moreover. the day-glo red trays 
that an entire meal at 
(rnportedly visible from the Mir Fazoli's cost half the price 
space station), disposable 
of a dinner entree at the 
utensils and ambiguously 
Olive Garden. 
European background music So, while the Olive 
(Menudo, perhaps?) did little to 
Oli-ve Garden 
Garden is a nice place to 
enhance the overall dining 
take a date. Fazoli's getsexperience. 
high marks as a great
The food, though, was excellent, The Olive Garden, however, was wait to be 70-7 5 minutes for a table place to grab a quick lunch or dinner. 
and surprisingly cheap -about six quite a different story. Arriving at 7 for two in the first available smoking dollars for a full meal. p.m. on a Friday night, I found the section. 
Photos taken by The Observer/Patrick Quigley 
'' 
'· 
f 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 8, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Glanville, Phillies throw Marlins back in lOth 
Associated Press 
PllllADELPHIA 
Doug Glanville hit an RBI sin­
gle with two outs in the lOth 
inning and the Philadelphia 
Phillies beat Florida 9-8 in their 
horne opener Tuesday night, the 
Marlins' seventh straight loss. 
The Phillies trailed 8-4 in tbe 
fifth inning, but rallied to drop 
the World Series champion 
Marlins to 1-7. Derrek Lee hit a 
grand slam and drove in five 
runs for Florida. 
Mark Lewis walked with one 
out in the lOth against rookie 
Jesus Sanchez (0-1l and moved 
to third on Bob Abreu's single. 
After Alex Arias was walked 
intentionally, pinch-hitter Rex 
Hudler struck out. Glanville fol­
lowed with his game-winner for 
his third HBI of the game. 
Ricky Bottalico (1-1) pitched 
two hitless innings for the win. 
An HBI grounder by Glanville in the sixth made it 8-5, then Lewis homered in the seventh. The Phillies' first homer came on their 208th at-bat of the sea­son, but it didn't take long to get their second. 
Notre Dame alumnus Craig 
Counsell started a six-run fifth 
with an HBI single that scored 
Cliff Floyd. Two singles and a 
walk later. Lee's grand slam 
easily clean~d the left field wall. 
Twins 12 Blue Jays 2 
Four-time Cy Young winner 
Hoger Clemens left after just ~even pitches because of a strained r-ight groin. and the Minnesota Twins took advan­tage of his absence to rout the Toronto Blue Jays 12-2 Tuesday 
night. 
Clemens (1-1) wound up as the losing pitcher in the shortest start of his career. His strain was described as mild by the Blue Jays, and his status was listed as day-to-day. 
Bob Tewksbury (1-1) gave up one run and two hits with no walks in seven innings. lie retired his final 18 batters. 
Clemens walked leadoff hitter Matt Lawton on five pitches and then fell behind 2-0 to Brent Gates before calling time. Manager Tim Johnson went to the mound and replaced Clemens with Robert Person. 
Person walked Gates, a walk that was charged to Clemens. Both runners eventually scored in a four-run first inning, high­lighted by Marty Cordova's two­run triple. 
Paul Molitor's two-run single in the third put Minnesota ahead 9-1 and chased Person, who gave up seven runs, seven hits and four walks in 2 2-3 innings. 
Mets 3 Cubs 2 
AI Leiter hit a two-run double for his first extra-base hit in 122 career at-bats and got his first victory for the New York Mets, 3-2 over the Chicago Cubs on Tuesday. 
Leiter (1-1), a .1 06 career hit­ter, was traded to the Mets by Florida as part of the Marlins' payroll purge following the World Series. He allowed both runs and six hits in five innings, striking out six and walking three. 
Tuesday's game included a 1­hour, 54-minute rain delay after the Mets batted in the sixth. Greg McMichael relieved follow­ing the rain, Dennis Cook got the final out of the eighth and John Franco finished for his first save. 
Butch Huskey homered for the Mets otT Jeremi Gonzalez (0-1), who gave up all three runs in six innings. 
Gonzalez, who had failed to retire a batter and was pounded for six runs against Florida last Thursday, fell behind when Huskey homered onto Waveland Avenue in the second inning. 
New York made it 3-0 in the fourth when Alberto Castillo walked, Rey Ordonez singled and Leiter doubled up the gap in left-center field. 
Braves I I Pirates 3 
Chipper Jones homered twice in the first three innings, even as some late-arriving fans were settling in for the Pirates' home opener, and Torn Glavine pitched seven shutout innings as Atlanta beat Pittsburgh 11-3 Tuesday night. 
Jones' homers -to left field in the first, and into the center­field seats in the third -were otT Jason Schmidt (1-1) and gave Atlanta a 4-0 lead in the third. Jones also walked, singled and reached on a throwing error and drove in five runs in his five plate appearances. 
Glavine (1-0) was far more effective in a park where he has only infrequently had success, giving up five hits, striking out five and walking one in beating Pittsburgh for the first time since May 13, 1996. 
The Pirates ruined the shutout in the ninth with consecutive homers by Guillen and Garcia otT 42-year old Dennis Martinez, the Braves' third pitcher. Mike Cather had pitched a scoreless eighth for Atlanta. 
Orioles I I Royals 7 
Eric Davis hit a three-run homer over the center field fence in the top of the sixth inning to power visiting Baltimore over Kansas City, 11­
7. The red-hot Orioles won their sixth straight game and dropped the Royals to their fourth defeat in seven outings. 
Scott Erickson (2-0) picked up his second win of the season and second over the Royals this year 
Major League Baseball Standings 
Eastern Division 
NY Mets 
Atlanta 
Philadelphia 
Florida 
Montreal 
Central Division 
Chicago Cubs 
Milwaukee 
St. Louis 
Houston 
Cincinnati 
Pittsburgh 
WesternDivision 
San Diego 
San Francisco 
Colorado 
Los Angeles 
Arizona 
Eastern Division 
Baltimore Tampa Bay
,.;:i.
Boston Toronto 
NY Yankees 
Central Division 
Cleveland 
National League 
w L .Pet GB Div 
4 2 .667 1-1 3 2 .600 1/2 2-1 2 3 .400 1 1/2 2-3 1 6 .143 3 1/2 0-0 0 6 .000 4 0-0 
6 1 .857 0-0 5 1 .833 1/2 0-0 3 2 .600 2 0-0 4 3 .571 2 0-0 3 3 .500 2 1/2 0-0 3 3 .500 2 1/2 0-0 
4 2 .667 0-0 4 2 .667 2-1 4 3 .571 1/2 3-0 1 4 .200 2 1/2 0-0 1 5 .167 2 1/2 1-5 
American League 
5 1 .833 0-0 4 2 .667 1 0-0 3 3 .500 2 0-0 2 3 .400 :t1/2 0-0 1 4 .200 3 1/2 0-0 
5 0 1.000 0-0 
Chicago White Sox Kansas City Minnesota De1roit  3 3 2 1  3 3 3 5  .500 .500 .400 .167  2 1/2 2 1/2 3 4 1/2  0-0 2-1 1-2 0-0  
WesternDivision  
Anaheim Seattle Texas Oakland  3 3 3 1  3 3 3 3  .500 .500 .500 .250  0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0  

by working 5 2/3 innings, allow-ond time, permitting four runs ing five runs on 10 hits. on 10 hits with one strikeout. Erickson struck out two and Hoberto Alornar was 4-for-5 walked two. with a double for the Orioles, 
Glendon Busch (0-2l fell to the while Carter finished with four Orioles and Erickson for the see-HBI in the victory. 
The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Not~e Dame o!Toce, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor nexr-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUMMER AND FALL EMPLOY­ 1 bdrm apt  
NOTICES  MENT: DECISION SCIENCES JOURNAL  for summer 243-4920  1014 N. St. Louis St. 4 bdrms, 2 baths, all appliances,  PERSONAL  Feramones are cool. .. lefs cycle together!  
Student who can work 8-12 hours  furnished. Walking distance to cam­ 
000 IHE COPY SHOP  000  per week. Must have an eye for  College Park Apartment  pus. 234-1440.  Hey -did you know ...  Are you looking tor something other  
LaFortune Student Center  detail, organized & able to work  For Rent During  than a furry white rabit to cuddle up  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE.  independently. For more informa­ Summer Session  We're open early, late, and week­ with this Easter? Why not try a hot  
AND WEEKENDS!!!  tion call Lori Butchko. 631-9084.  Call4-4012  FREE SUMMER STORAGE  ends for your convenience!  Italian stud like me ........... Just give  
Mon -Thur  7:30am -Midnight  MW 8-5 or Friday 8-noon.  '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  me a call. and I will. show you  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  Nice 5 bdrm. 2 bath  full basement.  WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE.  LaFortune Student Center  everything you desire.  4-4334  
Sat  Noon -6:00pm  Need 1 roommate for summer.  Walking distance to campus.  234-3831/273-0482  Phone 631-COPY  
Sun  Noon -Midnight  7 mins from campus.  350/rm. utilities & appl., WiD incl.  Star WoMan -you·re my main  
CALL 631-COPY  Pool, tennis courts,$230/month  Taking deposits for  ADOPTION: Hugs. daisies and  Gender Relations Committee babe.  
Call Jeremy 273-5463 ILOST & FOUNDISales/Marketing Internships  98-99 sci. yr. 277-5483.  Rooms in private house. 1 mi from NO. Summer rental. Greg 634-0766.  babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for  broad, chick, hot Mama. babe, trick, doll, and, especially, CRACK W.  
University Directories is hiring stu­ ALL SIZE HOMES  your baby all year long. Happy, car­ Whoever stole the pink bike from  
LOST:  Man's silver bracelet  dents to sell yellow page advertis­ CLOSE TO CAMPUS  ing professional couple would love  McGlinn Hall is lame. Pink bikes are  
somewhere on campus.  Great  ing for the official campus tele­ 232-2595  College Park Apartment for  to provide a newborn with love, joy  for sissies. I'm gonna tell my  
sentimental value.  Please call  phone directory this summer. Paid  SUBLET for 2 month minimum.  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ mommy on you.  
Danny at 273-0147.  Reward  internship. Training program.  Maximum of 4 people to rent.  800-484-7011 Pin #4523  
offered. THANX  Excellent sales/marketing & man- FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM­ $175 per person. Willing to  Mets 3, Cubs 2  
agement experience. Call  PUS.WASHER/DRYER.  negotiate. CALL 273-9235  LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR THE  Do it again today, New York! Yeah!  
1-800-7 43-5556 Ext. 143 or visit  FALUSUMMER.272-6551  '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR?  
L,___-w;_f\_N_T_E_o_____JII_,;::,::~m  1.2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  Interested in subletting a 2 Bdrm College Park Apartment for the Summer? Call 4-3857  THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is now accepting applications for next fall. Student positions are limited  Jamie-What did I tell you about Dilbert for Tuesday's paper? Yesterday was  
272-6551  Best Offer.  so apply early.  ·NOT April13. It's all your fault. And  
CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR  .  there was other stuff, but I won't be  
JOBS -Excellent benefits. World Travel. Ask us how! 517-324-3090  Now Renting Campus View  DOMUS PROPERTIES  FOR SALE  ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married NO Alumni couple,  picky.  
ext. C55841  1 & 2 Bedrooms  NOW LEASING 2 HOMES  with adopted 3 year old daughter,  Where is my Daddy?  
2 Blocks from campus  Capacity from 6 -9 students  1984 Volkswagen Cabaret convert.  wants to shower a new baby with  
Need a summer job? NO Alums  272-1441  Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in  5-speed, 50,000 mi. Stored winters.  love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic  HE'S HERE!  
looking tor a warm, energetic stu­ student populated areas.  $2.995.  lawyer dad, and a sister to play  
dent to care for our 3 children (ages  Completely remodeled and ready  674-5104 Bob Hull  with. Friends on the swingset, trips  DC-I promise Evansville's excit·  
5, 3 & newborn). Daytime Daytime  Very Reasonable Rent  for the 98/99 schoolyear.  to the zoo, grandma, play groups,  ing. Just come visit. ­ KK  
hours. no weekends. June-mid­ Looking for mature adult, or grad  Call Kramer at 674-2571  FURNITURE-All kinds, low prices,  lullabies, too. This is a home where  
August. Live in or out  student.  or 289-5999.  from a CP apt.-call271-7458  wishes come true. We'd like to get  KK-If you promise to ensure that  
(private bed/bath). Great location in  to know you. Call Shawn & Meg  it will be exciting, r11 be there.  
Pasadena. CA. Will pay travel  Send inquiries to:  SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE  Recliner, Fitness Flyer workout  800-767-4257.  -DC  
to/from CA. Negotiable wage. Call  PTS  Lease from June to Aug. 1.  machine, luggage rack for car, din­ Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid.  
Mimi @ 626-794-5426 or e-mail  1705 South Bend Ave.  All houses are surrounded by other  ing set tor two. Best offers. Will sell  Dan S. is not a geek.  
MimiandPT@ msn.com  So. Bend, IN 46637  student rentals. Call Kramer at 674­ each individually. Call Kevin at 257­ I have NIHO, you have SIHO, I have  
2571 or 289-5999.  0653  NIHO, you have SIHO ....Part II  
.·  

~ ~-~--~------~-------·--..,...._______ 
Wednesday, April 8, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
Lipinski turning pro to spend time with the folks 
Associated Press 
Tara Lipinski decided it was time to get a life and get reaquainted with Mom and Dad. 
So she turned pro. 
The 15-year-old Olympics 
gold medalist said Tuesday that 
she was turning professional ­
a move that makes her ineligi­
ble for future games and ends 
her rivalry with Michelle Kwan. 
She wants to train less so she 
can spend more time with her 
family. 
"I've been thinking a lot 
about turning pro, thinking 
since Nagano. but I really need­
ed time to think more about it," 
she said. ''I'm really excited 
about and a little relieved. I 
really wanted more time with the family, more time at home. 
"I would love to go to the 2002 Olympics and try to win another gold," she said on NBC's "Today" show, adding that she would feel "almost a little greedy in doing that, espe­cially to my parents, who have given up so much." 
Lipinski will make her pro debut April 24 at "Skate, Rattle 'n' Roll," a made-for-television event in Charleston, S.C. 
That show is not sanctioned, and once she skates there, Lipinski would have no chance of competing at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games to defend the title she won in Nagano, Japan, as the youngest individual gold· medalist. ever at a Winter Olympics. 
The reinstatement window 
that applied to ineligible skaters before the 1994 Olympics no longer exists. It had allowed champions includ­ing Brian Boitano, Viktor Petrenko, Katarina Witt and Yekaterina Gordeeva and Sergei Grinkov to return to the Lillehammer Games. 
On Wednesday night in Baltimore, Lipinski begins the Champions On Ice tour featur­ing Olympic, world and nation­al medal winners. 
She is also scheduled to skate in the Hershey's Kisses pro-am in Springfield, Mass., on April 18, which is sanctioned by the 
U.S. Figure Skating Association and the International Skating Union. 
"Now I'll have four-day week­ends and be able to be with my 
...----------------------------,family, because they mean so much to me," she said. "I don't want to be 21 and not know my dad." Richard Callaghan, Lipinski's coach, said he was surprised at the timing of her decision, but 


FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 17 & APRIL 18 
JOYCE CENTER Men's &Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at k?.-.~:~ Deadline: Wednesday, April 15 $8.00 Fee 
he understood it. 
''I'm sorry to see her leave the eligible ranks," he said. "She did a lot for women's skating. It would be nice to see her do more. She seems to want to do the pro circuit, maybe because there is less stress in training and so she can see her family more." 
Lipinski trained with Callaghan at the 

Skating Club. 
Her mother 
lived with her 
in Michigan 
while her father stayed at their 
home in Sugar Land, Texas. 
She will continue training three days a week with Callaghan, then spend the 
other four in Texas. 
"I've accomplished my 
dream," she said. "I think I 
need to give something back to 
them, so we can be a family 
again and really have that con­
nection. 
"I realized after Nagano how 
important it is to me to be with 
my mom and dad and be all 
together and have fun and go 
out to dinner and really be a 
family again. I owe that to my 
parents and myself." 
After she skipped last week's 
world championships at 
Minneapolis, it became clear 
Lipinski and her advisers felt 
there was little to gain in 
remaining an Olympic-eligible 
skater. 

., 
..,..___.,._____________ ______ _______ __ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 8, 1998 
• GOLF 
Woods, Els lead 'Master'-ful young group to Augusta 
Associated Press 
The green jacket of the Masters champion hangs in Tiger Woods' closet. The win­ner's trophy sits in his living room. The closet, presumably, has space for many more coats and the living room undoubted­ly can hold more hardware. 
Still, storage space could become a problem for Woods. 
Virtually everyone assumes he will win at Augusta National Golf Club many more times. And when play begins Thursday for the 62nd Masters it will truly be the beginning of Year II of the Tiger Woods Era. 
But it may also be the begin­ning of something else. It may be the beginning of an intensely competitive period in the major championships. 
If last year was the appetizer, then bring on the full course. 
If last year -with Woods, now 22, Ernie Els, 28, Justin Leonard, 25, and Davis Love Ill, 33, winning major champi­onships -was the warmup let's see the top banana. Bring in the main act. 
"We haven't really played 
well together in a major cham­pionship," Els said Tuesday, speaking of his rivalry with Woods. "Maybe this is the start of it." 
Woods is ranked No. 1 in the world and Els is No. 2, though they are virtually deadlocked. 
rt is a sport that needs rival­ries and right now it appears to be on the verge of some won­derful ones. 
Woods and Els are joined by Leonard, Phil Mickelson, Jim Furyk. David Duval and Lee Westwood as great players, the oldest of which is 28. None of them would be a surprise win­ner this week. 
"Right now there is a very large group of very good young players that are taking it to the hoop every week," said Tom Kite, the 48-year-old who was the almost forgotten runnerup to Woods in last year's Masters. "It's fun to watch." 
Asked what it would take to stop the young stallions from going to the hoop, Kite said: "You don't have to be 7-foot-1, but you do have to make a few 20-footers." 
Kite, Tom Watson, Nick 
Faldo, Nick Price and Greg Norman are among those in the over-40 crowd who still have the talent and the belief in themselves to contend with the youngsters here this week. 
"We're not dead and buried yet," Faldo said. 
Still, this year's tournament clearly revolves around Woods. There is a feeling that he could run away with it again. 
Asked if he could better last year's record score, Woods said: "Who knows? Anything is possible." 
But there is also the feeling that others will sprint with Woods if he tries to break from the pack. 
"Will he be in contention?" Els said. "Definitely, even if he doesn't play well. The golf course just suits him that well." 
"But l don't believe it's Tiger Woods against the field," Els said. "I think it's Tiger against the Augusta National golf course and it's for the rest of the field to do the same." 
What Woods did do was spend some time studying film of his victory at Augusta to try to figure out "what made me hit 
EASTER WEEKEND HOURS Ql!Jf!fluddle Mart 
Thursday, April9 --7:30am-8:00pm Friday-Saturday, Apri110, 11 --The Huddle Mart will be open from 10:00 am-5:00pm Easter sunday -Closed Monday, April 13 --Open regular hours 
v­
;V ' 
~ v~~ 
/'/~1 
"-:::3 
A~~\\)
Easter Sunday Bu-ffet 
will be served at North Dining Hall from 1:00 -4:00 pm 
Hors d'oeurves Seafood Bisque with Sherry Honey Glazed Ham with Pineapple Sauce Sauteed Breast ofChicken Tchouptoulas Herb Roasted Leg ofSpring Lamb Vegetable Rice Pilaf---Delmonico Potatoes Asparagus Spears Hollandaise Sauteed Julienne Vegetables SaJads and Breads Desserts and Fresh Fruits 
Adults-$10.75 Children-$5.40 Children under 5 eat free Students on a Notre Dame meal plan need their ID 
South DiningHan Will be closed 
the ball the way I did." 
For a young man who was raised to be the greatest golfer ever, Woods has reacted to his Masters victory in a surprising­ly low-key way. 
Though as a champion he is now a member, Woods did not return to play Augusta National until Monday. 
The green jacket hangs in his closet and the young man who fell asleep in that coat after last year's victory almost never takes it out. 
Asked if he shows it to frie~ds, he said: "Only if they ask. 

Study Portuguese at Notre Dame 
The language of Brazil, Latin America's largest and most populous country, a land of rich literature, fascinating music, natural beauty and international business opportunities. 
Learn fast: Intensive course 
Fulfill the language requirement 
in 2 semesters 
Contact: Department of Romance Languages 

Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r--------, r-----......,.,
One week of or
1 1 1 Ten Tanning •
1Unlimited Tanning 1 
:Bed Sessions:,
• only $15 I -*walk in only I I only $35 1
L____ ... ___ .J 
L---------.-1
University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by l !P Lllall near ~11arl 
272-7653 256-9656 
Now or.en until midni ht Mon-Thurs 
,­
Notre Dame Baseball 
Wed. vs. Chicago State@ 5 PM Thurs. vs. Rutgers (DH) @ Noon Sat. vs. Villanova (DH)@ Noon Saturday: Don't miss the Frisbee Dogs!! 
Frank Eck Stadium 


Softball 
Wed. vs. Purdue (DH) @ 4 Pl\1 Thurs. vs. Beton Hall (DH) @ 4 Pl\1 Bat. vs. Beton Hall @ 11 .Al\1 

Iv Field 
Saturday vs. Syracuse@ Noon 
Wednesday, April 8, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NFL 
Arizona lands Jets' Murrell to fill void in backfield 
Associated Press Murrell, a 1,000-yard rusher the last two He ran for 1,086 yards in 300 attempts 
years. last season. 
TEMPE, Ariz. The Cardinals were last in the NFL in "The draft is a crap shoot, but Adrian 
The Arizona Cardinals filled a need rushing, averaging 78.4 yards per game Murrell is not a crap shoot," said Bob Tuesday by trading their third-round -less than Murrell averaged in 1996, Ferguson, Arizona's vice president of draft pick to the New York Jets for Adrian when he had 1,249 yards in 301 carries. player personnel. "He's the real deal." 
You are invited to ... 
PLAN THE PERFECT PARTY!!! 

*The checklist for St,tccess 
*OrderiV\g aV\d displayiV\g food 
*Enter+a iV\W\eV\t aV\d decoratioV\s 
All freshmen Orientation, SYR, and formal Commissioners and Club Officers are encouraged to attend. 
location: Montgomery Theater Date: Tuesday, April 14 Time: 5:00 PM-6:30 PM 
Spo"'SDI"ed by the Office of Stl-\de"'t .Activities, Catel'i"'9 by Desi9"'' Risk Ma"'a9eme"'t, a"'d the Office of .Alcohol cmd D ... L-\ 9 edl-\catio"' 

Morning of Wednesday, April 8 North, South, and God Quads 
Prizes Redeemable at Student Activities Office 
315 LaFortune Student Center April 8-17 
Happy Easter! 



Murrell became expendable when the Jets signed New England's Curtis Martin as a free agent. The Jets gave the Patriots their first-and third-round picks to acquire Martin. New York also sent Arizona its seventh-round pick. 
"That was important to me," Ferguson said. "We got (defensive 
• FOOTBAI..l 
tackle} Mark Smith in the seventh round last year. And (center} Tom Nalen was a seventh-round pick for me in Denver, so I know seventh-rounders can be special." 
The trade left the Cardinals with nine picks, including No. 3 in the first round after trading down one spot to allow San Diego to move up. 
Murrell has 3,447 yards and 15 TDs on 850 carries, a 4.1-yard average, in his five-year career. He also has caught 127 passes for 729 yards and three TDs. 
Murrell will team with fullback Larry Centers in the two-back offense. 
"Obviously the acquisition of Curtis Martin gave us the latitude to make this deal," Parcells said. "Adrian did a terrific job for us, and the Cardinals are getting a very good running back who can start for them." 
Hillmann joins Notre Dame strength team 
staff, he served stints as an assistant strength and condition­ing coach at the University of Cincinnati (1995-1996} and Ball State University (1992-1996}. In the summer of 1994, Hillman also spent time as a strength and conditioning specialist with the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
A native of St. Louis, Mo., Hillmann is a 1991 graduate of the University of Missouri where he received his bachelor of sci­ence in secondary education. He also earned a masters in sports management from Ball State University in 1995. 
Ir-----------------------, I Attention •
I I 
' 
:T ransfe r 0 r i en tati o0: 
I I 
I Fall 1998 I 
1 1 
~-----------------------~ 
Are You interested in being part of Transfer 0 '98? Applications for Transfer Orientation Staff are available in the Student Activities Office (3rd floor LaFortune). Apply Friday, April 17. All questions call: 
Lisa Radden Dave DePoister 4-2967 4-3683 (Co-Chair) (Co-Chair) 
Special to The Observer 
Aaron Hillmann, football strength and conditioning coach at the University of Connecticut since 1996, has been named assistant strength and condition­ing coach at the University of Notre Dame. 
While at Connecticut for two years, Hillmann developed and supervised the year-round con­ditioning program for the Husky football team as well as imple­menting rehabilitation programs for injured athletes. 
Prior to joining the Connecticut 

' 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 8, 1998 
• BASEBALL 
Heilman's outstanding week earns Big East honors 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman righthander Aaron Heilman has been named the Big East Conference pitcher of the week for March 30 through April 5, following an impressive four-game stretch of shutout relief. 
Heilman totaled 11 strikeouts during the week while allowing just two hits and two walks over five and two-thirds innings. Opposing batters hit just .1 05 versus him for the week (2-for-19). 
Heilman saved both games of Notre Dame's doubleheader at Boston College Saturday. He struck out BC cleanup hitter and home-run leader Ryan McGowan (5 HRs in 15 games) with the bases loaded and two outs in the sev­

enth and final inning, Heilman preserving a 5-2 win. 
Heilman then saved the second game (6-4) by striking out two and allowing one hit and one walk over the final one and one-third innings. 
Earlier in the week, the surging 6-4, 200-pound rookie shut down Bowling Green in a tight 4-4 game on April 2, facing the minimum nine batters from the eighth through the 1Oth innings while striking out six (the Irish went on to win, 6-4 in 11 innings). Heilman also threw a shutout inning versus Western Michigan on April 1 (an 8-1 win), allow­ing one hit and one walk while striking out two. 
Two Notre Dame pitchers have been honored during the first four weeks of the Big East awards, with junior righthander Brad Lidge tabbed for the first Big East pitcher of the week award this season (March 16). Senior shortstop LJ. Brock also was named Big East play­er of the week on March 16. 
Heilman has lowered his season earned-run average to 1.73 while oppo­nents are batting just .185 versus the talented freshman. Heilman leads the Irish strikeouts per nine innings pitched 
(11.8) and strikeout-to-walk ratio (4.9), totaling 34 Ks and just seven walks in 26 innings. 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
to 3-2 before swinging at strike three. Third baseman Tim Fitzharris singled to center on a 2-2 count. bringing Ridley and Bigbie around for a 2-0 lead. 
In the Irish half of the fourth, Felker led off with a single, extending his season-high hitting streak to eight games. The first pitch to Wagner was in the dirt, and Felker took off for second. Cardinal catcher Jonathon Kessick handled the pitch cleanly and made the throw to second to easily catch Felker. 
"It was not an especially smart play at that lime," Mainieri said. "But it was an error of aggres­siveness. I'd rather make mis­takes by being overly aggressive than timid." 
On the next pitch, Wagner hit his IOth home run of the season to cut the lead to 2-1. It was the 37th of his career. tying him with Frank Jacobs and Mike Amrhein at the top of the Notre Dame list. 
"It's nice to finally get it," Wagner said. "It's nice to have it personally. but it's nothing for you if you lose the game. It hasn't really set in yet." 
Notre Dame tied the game in the fifth when Todd Frye singled to left with one out. Dan Leatherman extended his sea­son-high hitting streak to eight games with a single to right that moved Frye to third. Frye scored on a ground out by Allen Greene. 
Two runs by the Cardinals in the sixth put Notre Dame down 4-2. Then, in the bottom of the inning, Felker led off with a walk. Wagner drilled a double to left field and Felker was waved around third. Two perfect throws from Lassiter in left and Dorrman at short nailed Felker at the plate by five steps. 
In the eighth, Felker led off with an infield single. A throwing error on the play went into the Ball State dugout, allowing Felker to advance to second. On a 3-0 pitch, Wagner swung at a high pitched and fouled out to the first baseman. Brant Ust then singled to right field, scoring Felker. Ball State retired the last five Irish batters for the win. 
"I made a bad decision," Wagner said. "I got caught in the moment with the chance to drive in a run." 

BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 

DON'T MISS OUT!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT 315 LAFORTUNE APPLICATIONS MUST BE RETURNED BY 5PM APRIL 9 
EXCLUSIVELY AT AYRES 
CLINIQUE FREE 8-PC. GIFT 
WITH ANY CLINIQUE PURCHASE OF 16.50 OR MORE 
1. 
Almost Lipstick In Bronze Lilac 

2. 
Different Lipstick in Sweet Honey 

3. 
Neutralizer Llp·Shaping Pencil 

4. 
Lemongrass Stay The Day Eye Shadow 


5.Take The Day Off Makeup Remover for Lids, Lashes & Lips 
6. 
Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion 

7. 
Turnaround Cream 

8. 
Large Folding Mirror Available now through Aprll19. while supplies last. One gift to a customer, please. 


MEET THE CLINIQUE COMPUTER Stop by the Clinique counter for a fast analysis of your skin. The Expert is in 24 hours a day. Contact the Clinique Web Site at http:/www.clinique.com CLINIQUE Allergy Tested. 100% Fragrance Free. 
CLINIQUE 

ORDER ANYTIME CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-528-2345 
L·S·AYRES 

Wednesday, April 8, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
a tough game. Whenever we the NCAA Foundation games~, 4-2 and 3-0, to end a were unable to sweep the play a Big Ten team, we know Leadership Conference later four-game winning streak for series against the predicted
Softball 
it's going to be a tough game." this year, has 45 hits on the the visitors. South Division champions, they 
continued from page 20 
scored three runs in the last two innings to complete the rally. 
"We played [Purdue] in the fall," senior Jenn Giampaolo said, "so we know what to expect of them. It's going to be 






The Boilermakers are led by junior Denise Szany, who went 3-for-3 in the losing effort with two singles and a double. Szany currently has a team-leading .400 batting average, with 36 hits and 21 RBI this season. Junior Samantha Mercier, who was selected to participate at season with a .352 average. 
Last year, Purdue went 41-25 on the season and placed fourth in the conference. Two of those wins came against the Irish in the first week of April at West Lafayette. The Boilers used their home field advan­tage to defeat the Irish in both 
Notre Dame, now 18-17 on the season, are fresh off anoth­er successful weekend, having gone 3-1 in a Big East road trip to Providence and Boston College. On Saturday, the Irish swept two games from the Friars by scores of 3-0 and 3-2. Melanie Alkire hit her first 
home run of the season in the 
third inning of the first game, 
one of her five hits of the after­
noon. 
The next day, the team trav­
eled to Beantown to take on 
Boston College. While the Irish 

fitne~~ ln~tructor~ 
Wanted! 
CJain leaderzshlp skills, lnctzease voutz ~ltness knowled~e, eatzn ~tzeat $$$ and stav ~lt. We need enthusiastic, hatzd-wotkin~ inditJiduals to teach step, hi/lo and tonin~ classes. 
Return application to Rec~port~ by 4/14. Call 105965 for an interview. Audition on 4 I 21. 
did split the series to improve their conference record to 4-3 on the season. 
"We really came together as a team," Giampaolo said about the team's improved perfor­mance. "We've started to gel out on the field. Before, we were just nine individuals there, but now we're a team, working together." 
The first game of the double­header between the Irish and the Boilermakers is set for 4 
p.m. at Ivy Field. 
l1998 
WON'T FIT ON 8TH ... 
8 
BASEBALL./\1 
.. SOFTBALL./\1 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
MEN'S TENNISN 
vs CHICAGO STATE 
AT WAKE FOREST 
AT BALL STATE
vs PURDUE 
ECK STADIUM 
IVY FIELD, 4:00 PM 
200 PM 
8:30PM 
5:05PM 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
BASEBALL./\1 
AT WAKE FOREST, 2:00 PM 
VS RUTGERS 
ECK STADIUM
SOFTBALL./\1 
12:05 PM
VS SETON HALL 
IvY FIELD, 4:00 PM 
15 
16
13 
14 
17
12 
BASEBALL./\1 
WOMEN'S I.ACROSSEN AT PURDUE INVITATIONAL 
WOMEN'S GOLF WOMEN'S TENNISN WOMEN'S lACROSSEN SOFTBALL./\1 
VS EARLHAM, MOOSE KRAUSE, 4PM VS PURDUE 'IS BUTLER 
AT UCONN ALL DAY 
AT CLEMSON ECK STADIUM IVY FIELD 
3:00PM MEN'S TENNISN 
12:00 PM SOFTBALL./\1 
6:05PM 4:00PM
AT INDIANA, 1:00 PM 
OUTDOOR TRACK/V AT ILLINOIS 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/C 
AT MT. SAC INVITATIONAL 2:00PM 
BASEBALL./\1 
AT NATIONAL TOURNAMENT 
WALNUT,CA ECK STADIUM, 5:05 PM 
VS MANCHESTER 
(THROUGH 4/19) UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
WOMEN'S SAFE NIGHT RUN 
19 
MEN's TENNISN 


AT INDIANA, 2:00 PM 
WOMEN'S I.ACROSSEN vs GANNON MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD, 11 :00 AM 
MEN'S I.ACROSSEN VS UMASS MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD, 1:00 PM 
! wo~~~~rH:::  ..  ~~~~~:~~fi~:~ ~;;,.,.;;;"""--=--==='-'  
IVY FIELD, 1:00 PM OUTDOOR TRACK/V AT Mr. SAC INVITATIONAL WALNUT,CA  AT OHIO STATE . INTERCOLLEGIATE, ALL DAY ULTIMATE FRISI!EEfC SECTIONAL9  

9:00PM. Look for more info on flyers to come! 

I 
Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. Check out Sports1/2Page every two weeks for the latest scoop on sports and NIKE events at Notre Dame. Are you or your team setting any records? Breaking any new ground? If so, I want to hear from you-especially if you're a Club or Intramural athlete~ Drop me an email at colleen.henshaw@nike.com. You just end up featured in the next issue. To reach NIKE HO directly, try: sports.halfpage@nike.com. Would you like to have an impact on a kid's life and help introduce them to sports and recreation? Are you a current freshman, sophomore, junior, or returning grad student? If so, email me at Colleen.Henshaw@nike.corn, and I'll give you details on how you can 
become a Nike P.L.A.Y.CORPS coach~ .. The Women's Safe Night Run is set for the 14th at 
IN CREATING SPORTS1/2PAGE, NIKE MAKES EVERY EFFORT TO BE ACCURATE. WE REGRET ANY ERRORS. IF YOUR TEAM WASN'T COVERED, LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW AND WE'LL TRY NEXT ISSUE. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS/V MEN'S lACROSSEN 
AT DUKE, 1:00 PM AT GEORGETOWN, 2:00 PM MEN'S TENNISN SOFTBALL./\1 AT TEXAS, 12:00 PM VS SETON HALL 
WOMEN'S I.ACROSSEN 
IVY FIELD, 11:00 AM VS SYRACUSE OUTDOOR TRACK/V MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD, 12:00 PM AT MIAMI INVITATIONAL ALL DAY • 
I 
18 
SOFTBALL./\1 MEN'S GOLFN VS CONNECTICUT AT OHIO STATE IVY FIELD, 12:00 PM INTERCOLLEGIATE, ALL DAY 
BASEBALL./\1 AT PITISBURGH, 12:00 PM 
ULTIMATE FRISBEE/C SECTIONAL$ 
WON'T FIT ON 11TH... OUTDOOR TRACK/V AT BIG EAST/CONF USA CHALLENGE CHARLOTIE,NC BASEBALL./\1 VS VILLANOVA ECK STADIUM, 12:05 PM WOMEN'S GoLFN A1 PURDUE INVITATIONAL ALL DAY 
n 
0 
II 
n 
0 
... 
Ill n 
... 
Ill Ill
... 
0 
:I Ill 
....... 
< 
II 
<
Ill 
... 
Ill 
... 
'< ....... 
n 
II 
n c: 
C"' ....... 
-· 
II 
:I
... 
... 
Ill 
3 
c: 
... 
Ill 
THE GOAL OF THIS SPORT5112PAGE IS TO INFOr STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 8, 1998 
• SMC TENNIS 
Little effort needed in Belles' domination of Olivet 

By VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Sporrs Writer 
The Belles are on the lookout for tough competition. 
The Saint Mary's tennis team shut out Olivet College yesterday 9-0 with seemingly effortless play. The team gave up only one game in it'i singles matches and talented invitational teams. 
"It seems like the competition we face is either one extreme or the other," commented sopho­more co-captain Katie Vales. "We play teams as inexperienced as Defiance and as strong as llope. It would be nice to play matches that are close because those are the kinds of matches 
had across the board of 6-0. 
Doubles matches were not because of the onset of rain. 
Although the win is a plus for the team, the Belles need preparation for their upcoming match against DePauw this Saturday. Their performance against DePauw will have lasting effects for the rest of the sea­son. 
The pressure is on as only the top 12 teams of the Midwest will be invited to the Midwest Invitational on 
• • The Observer/Kristy Sutorius 
Aprt1.18. Samt Tuesday's defeat of Olivet was a singles event­Mary s perfor-the threat of rain cancelled all doubles matches. 

mance against DePauw will be crucial to their appearance in the invitational, and the team is anxious to pre­pare. 
Playing teams like Olivet will definitely not benefit the t1mm in their preparation for the highly 
251-0674 
II ATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chef in Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
l.tllll hi I !Mun Sun•• tunu rr. :;:\ton-Sal , 10 Jo'11 & Sal 
j *The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year Summer Rentals June~August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

Off-Campus Council presents: 
FREE FOOD NIGHT @ ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB Wed. April 8th, at 7:00 pm 
SO MUCH PIZZA!!! 
must be 21 
that will prepare us for the invi­said. "Our doubles points will be tational." crucial when we compete 
Junior co-captain Betsy against DePauw because if we Gemmer shared the same take those, it'll make tho match thoughts. much easier." 
"Hopefully we'll get a good Saint Mary's has a long stand­practice in this week," Gemmer ing rivalry against DePauw. The team is hoping to come out strong against them, play a com­petitive match, and end up on top. They all know that their mental f(Jcus this week is crucial and are ready to prepan~ as nec­essary. 

It's time again to make baskets for the people of South Bend who probably wouldn't get a really good meal for Easter otherwise, and the WHC needs your help. We'II be assembling the baskets and helping families carry them to their cars. Please come~ even if only for a few minutes. Th!lnks! Questions? Call Karen at x2297. 
Wednesday, April 8th, 3:30pm to 6:00pm Stepan Center 

invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the academy. 
If you are looking for: 
(1) 
a~ integrated approach to politics and justice, 

(2) 
without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(3) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor David O'Connor, O'Connor.2@nd.edu. You may also pick up a paper application from Coleen Hoover in the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shaughnessy. The application deadline is April13. Acceptances will be announced April14. 

WHY NOT TRY A NATURAL HIGH?? 
-LAUGHING ... EATING A HOT FUDGE SUNDAE ... HUGGING 
... THE SUNSET ... ATTEND MASS ... FEEDIN.G THE 
... DANCING ... WINDSURFING ... FLYING A KITE ... -BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL ... HAVE A PILLOW FIGHT -WORK OUT... -BUILD A SNOWMAN ... LIGHT A CANDLE AT THE GROTTO ... SMILE... 
I 
-DO SOMETHING FOR OTHERS ... ATTEND AN ATHLETIC EVENT... -WALK AROUND THE LAKE ... TALK WITH A FRIEND­
. I 
I 
I
Sponsored By The Office Of Alcohol And Drug Education 
I 
Wednesday, April 8, 1998 
DILBERT 
REQUEST DENIED. THE INFORMI\TION SERVICES DEPARTMENT DOES NOT UPGRADE NON-STANDARD COMPUTERS. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Noted Arctic explorer
1 Shoulder of a road 
28 London terminus5 Magician's 32 Nut favored inword Chinese 9 Succotash cookingingredients 34 50's political 14 Sneaking inits.
suspicion 35 Gaelic "Oh my!" 
15 Wheels of 36 Friend of fortune? 
Charlie Brown 
16-Gay 
40 Ariz.-to-Kan. dir. 17 Dove rival 
41 Suffix with 18 Forefather of resident the Edomites 
42 Algonquian 19 Jane Smiley's chief "A Thousand 
43 One in a million 46 Make a 20 Place for picky temporary stitch people? 
47 Writer 23 Audio systems, Silverstein for short 
48 Monte Rosa, 24 Blended--e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
49 Bloke 55 Needing liniment 
and Philip F+.:..:..po..,..,. 11 Cartoonist 30 Mendelssohn's 
50 King of the 56 Armchair road athlete'sWalker --in Eflat 51 Burden channel
12 Novelist Waugh major 13 Pane holder 31 Lamenter's 21 "McQ" star question 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 33 Gibberish22 Bakers' are available by touch-tone phone: supplies 37 Send (for) 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 38 Poet Neruda 
Annual subscriptions are available for the anniversary gift 39 Mexican cruise best of Sunday crosswords from the last '--'--'--_,__. 26 Turgenev lady port 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
49 Diet setback, maybe 57 A feather in 
one's cap 58 Delft, e.g. 59 "The Talmadge 
Girls" author &oGoes up 
against 61 African despot 62 Find fault 63 Sworn body 64 Blathers 65 Up for grabs 
DOWN 
1 Two hearts and others 2 Touch up, in a way 
3 Backside 4 Language blooper 
5 Commoners 6 Department north of Paris 7 First name in 
IT'S NOT AN UPGRt>-OE. 
-~ 
IT'S A 
IS THAT IT'S ~ 
REPLt>-CE.­
t>-N UPGRADE ; UNLESS YOU ~ DISCARD THE. OLD ONE.. 
The Observer· TODAY 
DAN SULLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
'<OUR IRASH I5 
DECLINED. OUR 
POLICY IS "NO COMPUTER5." 
J 

Persian poetry 27 Swelling, in 44 Scarves worn to 52 Janowitz who 
aHercule Poirot's England the races wrote "Slaves of home on 28 Loudly 45 Exchange for New York" Farraway Street commends "my kingdom" 53 QB Kramer 
9 Go for 48 Church cries 54 Bar stuff 
29 Authors Henry 

• 
For a good time, join The Observer. 
..... 



.. 
I • 
I I I I 
SPORTS 
page 20 
• BASEBAll 
Notre Dame drops close one 
Wagner ties homer mark in 4-3 defeat 
By DAN CICHALSKI Senior SraffWrirer 
It was one of those " if" games. 
If .Jeff Fclknr had not been thrown out in the fourth inning trying to advanee on a piteh in the dirt immediately before Jeff Wagner's record-tying home run ... If Felker had not been thrown out itt the plate on a Wagner double with no outs in the sixth ... If just one of Ball State's stellar defensive plays had gotten through the infield or fallen in the outfield ... 
Maybe Notre Dame could have pulled off a win at Eck Stadium Tuesday. Instead, the Irish dropped a 4-3 game to the Cardinals, ending a 10­game winning streak and mov­ing their record to 20-10. 
"It was a good ball game by two good teams," Irish coach 
treme ndo us plays all night. They have good fundamentals and make the plays." 
Ball State made the plays on the Irish from the start 
• SOFTBALL 
'Geling' Irish ready for a tough one 
Team returns from successful eastern trip 
By BILL HART Assistant Sports Editor 
After a grueling conference road trip across New England last weekend, Notre Dame's softball team would like to take advantage of any opportunities that arise. It looks like luck is smiling on the Irish, as they begin a five-game home stand this afternoon against a Purdue squad that has struggled over the past two weeks. 
The Boilermakers are currently on· a four-game losing skid, with their record tumbling to 19-18 and 1-5 in Big Ten play. On Sunday afternoon, the Boilers came within six outs of upsetting No. 18 Minnesota in Minneapolis. The visitors took a 2-0 lead into the sixth inning, but the Gophers 
.-·/ sec SOFTBALL/ page 17 


The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Second baseman Todd Frye singled and came around to score the tying run in the fifth inning against Ball State Tuesday. 
sion with left fielder Ben Lassiter. 
of the game. 
Wednesday, April 8, i 998 
• BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXVII 
Weather taking effect in Bookstore gallles 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Spotts Editor 
For the first time in this yPar's tournament, adverse weather conditions played a role at Bookstore Basketball. Players could be seen dribbling around puddles and the slick conditions clearly led to some off-target shots. 
Serenity Now, the number 32 seed, rolled to victory over Pure Debauchery, 21-2. 
"I think we played a pretty good game," said team captain Hene Casares. "We didn't miss too many shots and our of'fen­sive ran very smoothly." 
A year ago, the team made the round of 64 before losing to Malicious Prosecution. This year, Serenity Now faces a potential matchup with Primetime in the round of 32. However, right now they are just taking it one game at a time. 
"Each time we get out there, we gain confidence," said Casares. "Our practices are going well, but we know there are some sleepers out there. We're not looking past anyone." 
Top-seeded Primetime saw their first action of the t!mrna­ment on Saturday because of a rescheduling. As expected, they cruised to victory in a friendly contest with F.L.O.G, 21-2. Mike Empey played despite a broken leg, but Steve Craig sat out to nurse two injured ankles. 
"We haven't gotten a chance to play together as much as we would like to," said Haam Jani. "But after Easter we'll have more time to prepare and come together as a team." 
Mary Pat Cerrow's basket over 

Team Shanequa and the In Crew, Their Sophomore Album def. The Harlem Drinking Club Tickle Me Gaby, This Time It's Personal def. Bobby Hurley, Austin Crosherre, and 3 Other Guys Who Aren't Good To... Ned's 4-4 Tibetan Pre-slamming Exhibitionist New Age Basketball Implosion def. Team Gandy's Captain 0-Child and the Seamen def. Dingus and the Pheromones Categoriallmperative?! def. Sexual Innuendo Team 390 def. Team 408 Team 338 def. Team 489 The Cassanova's def. Team 8 Punitive Avengers def. Lumber Chicks Team 380 def. 4 Men and a Little Lady Big King With Special Sauce def. Exploding Kiwis Maverick and the Nookie Runners def. Peanuts Amazing Grace and Chuck def. Like a Virgin Hey Dan, That Girl's on the Phone def. Peril With No Warning Poop Dreams def. Sanchez Surpirse Serenity Now def. Pure Debauchery NBT def. Jerry's Kids Team 37 def. The 5 Dwarfs Hot Lunch and the Donkey Punch def. 4 Big Bufords and a Donkey Punch The Monkey Shot def. Team 150 Team 153 def. Angst/CO+ 1 Wafna def. We Can't Even Beat Ourselves 5 Fi rs of Funk def. A lone Rollingstone 
Kyle Hughes· outstretched arm and KPrry Schroeder's bucket were the only two points for 
F.L.O.G. JlownvPr, Karen Cowan put in a gutty performancP despite being in the infirmary a few hours bd'nre ganw time. 
Like a Virgin featured five girls dressnd up in Catholic school uniforms and gave Amazing Grace and Chuck a run for their money. Like a Virgin trail1~d 7-0 early and quickly found themselves down 20-7. But thny rallied back and seomd nine unanswerml points, beforP Amazing Grace put the game away. 
"I felt intimidated," said Lukfl Schloegnl, a member of tlw win­ning tnam. "They starting get­ting physical and we wanted to swing baek, but we don't believe in hitting girls." 
Another all-girls squad Team 8, featuring varsity swimmers Kristen Van Saun, Carrie Nixon, Brenda Heilly, Shannon Suddarth and Anne Iacobucci. The Big East Champions faired a lot better in the pool than they did on the court. as they fell 21­
4. However the team was with­out its star, Linda Gallo. 
"If we had Linda, they would have gotten beat," said Van Saun. "But we're going to work on our offense and be back in full fon~e next year." 
In a late game, Cheeseburgers in Paradise used Jimmy Buffet and Charlie Prisco to overtake Yosemite Sam and Backoff Mud11a'ps, 21-15. 
"We'rn the 33rd ranked team in our opinion," said Prisco. 
The round of 512 continues this afternoon on basketball courts all over campus. 
The Observer/Jon King 
Center!iPldf'r .Justin Love lunged head first to make a diving catch at the warning track on Wagnpr's drivf' to right-centerfield leading off the second. In the sixth, with two outs and a runner on third, Love robbed the Irish again with a running catch of Todd Frye's fly ball to left-center and then managed to avoid a colli-
The Cardinals ended the scoreless pitchers' duel in the third inning. Jeremy Ridley, Larry Bigbie and Brian Dorrmann all singled on three consecutive pitches to load the bases with one out against Irish starter Scott Cavey. South Bend native Matt Wood then worked the count 
see BASEBALL/ page 16 

~ y
Chicago State, Syracuse, Today, 5:05p.m. 
Saturday, Noon
1l: 
• SMC tennis defeats Olivet 6-0 
Purdue (DH), at Georgetown, 
~w 
Today, 4 p.m. 
~ 
Saturday, 4 p.m. 
see page 18 at Wake Forest, 
Track vs. Defiance, 
• Football program names assistant
.!! Thursday, 2 p.m. s~ Today, 2:30p.m. 
S€ 
strength coach
at Ball State, Tennis vs. DePauw see page 15
/,,'! 
Friday, 8:30p.m. Thursday, 3 p.m. 

