
I t •
.' .' 
It t I 
'
'' . '. 
• Scene highlights on-and off-campus 
• Letters to the Editor show a mixed response to 
Friday
diversions students can turn to for celebrating 
Senator Bill Bradley's visiting professorship on cam­
their first weekend back at Notre Dame. 
pus this semester. 

AUGUST 28, 
Viewpoint • 9 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
-
VOL XXXII NO.1.';;/ WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

called all to attention. A priest said grace. to ensure perfect service. 
Past and future A bell struck, and all sat down. A red light Previous to the recent renovations. the flashed in the dining hall and another in South Dining Hall had undergone surpris­the kitchen. This signaled to waiters to ingly few changes in its 70-year history.
mix in new SDH bring in the soup ... What had changed was the world outside. This description in a 1928 magazine The recent construction of several resi­
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
reeounts a typical meal in what was then dence halls in the vicinity of the South 
Associate News Editor 
known as the Dining Halls Building. Upon Dining Hall required University officials to its completion in 1927. the structure now reevaluate the food service available to
The doors opened at 11:55. One thou­
known as the South Dining Hall was this increasingly populated area of cam­
sand students marched in. and each took 
viewed as a prototype for what a university pus.
his allotted place at the tahle. standing at 
dining hall should be: a model in precision
his chair. At tweh1e o'clock a hell signal 
and order, with every detail premeditated 
see SDH I page 4 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 
Bookstore preps to sell on-line 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY Assistant News Editor 
Starting next semester, Notn) Dame students will be able to avoid large crowds and long lines by ordering and purchas­ing books through a new 'virtu­al bookstore' website. 
The site. located at http://www. nd. bookstore. wm. allows students to select books by providing the department name, course number. and preference regarding new or us11d books. 
"This is something we will start to promote for the upcom­ing spring term." explained James O'Connor. director of the bookstore. "[The site I will be updated on a weekly b<i..<;is. As soon as we get the orders we'll put them on." 
Patrons will be able to pay by providing credit card informa­tion. and bookstore employees will gather and store orders until studenL<; ran piek them up. 
The service will be available at no additional cost. according to O'Connor, who speculated that free delivery to residence halls may be an option in the future. 
"[Delivery I is one of the possi­bilities to work toward as we develop the program." he said. 
Despite its convenience, O'Connor does not think that the new service will reduce the number of students who visit the store. 
lie said that many students are selective about their used books and added that the new store will have an atmosphere that attracts students for rea­
see WEB I page 4 
OMSA fills plate for upcoming academic year 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR that has disagreed with what is in "The way the office has been oper­Associate News Editor here." ating anyway is in the capacity of a The plan for the center was based center." she said. 
An on-campus cultural center on an example at the University of lluie thought that the creation of a highlight11d a doc.ket of now under­California at San Diego. lluie said center would provide a more friendly takings presented at the Office of that the center would not be environment for student involve­multicultural Student Affairs' IOMSAl designed solely for underrepresented ment. lie pointed out that a cross­Coalition Council meeting last night. groups or to provide favoritism in cultural center would be more con­
"Ov11r tlw summer. the office did any way: rather, the centnr is dueive to participation than OMSA. sonw research about establishing a designed to incorporate the interests Tony Heid, a 1997 Notre Dame rnultintltural center on 1:ampus." of majority groups as well. he said. graduate and co-founder of Onyx said Knvin lluie. assistant dirc1ctor of "If there is any indication that Industries, Inc. (011) offered a OMSA. Noting that such an idea can there is a lack of support for the cen­fundraising opportunity to student "be a very touchy issue with some ter to take place then we will not groups. stud11nts on campus," lluin said. "I pursue it." lluie said. "An opportunity has arisen that I'm am convinced that what is written in OMSA is looking for signatures of going to bring to you, he here as a proposal will convince any­support from individuals, as well as announced. Heid explained that he is one that having a multicultural cen­grvup endorsements for the proposal looking for an organization or group tnr on campus is a good idea." Iris Outlaw. director of OMSA. to help facilitate the sale of his com­
While passing out copies of the added that the plan was designed to pany's calendars. Hegis Philbin will proposal. lluie added: "There has not account for the diverse capacities the promote the ealenders by featuring The Observer/Kevin Dalum lwen one JWrson that has gotton this office has assumed. An attendee browses a calendar at yesterday's 
see OMSA I page 4 OMSA meeting. 

'I • I 
.' I I .. ' ' >I ' ' . '. 
Friday, August 28, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Be careful before you get charged up 

It also helps them formulate a payment plan. 
As new students flooded the West Mall for the first day of classes, representatives from MasterCard. Visa and American Express offered free T-shirts and calling cards in exchange for filling out an application. 
But students might regret those free T-shirts when they are faced with extensive credit card bills, debt counselors warn. Lonnie Williams, a representative for the Consumer Credit Counseling Services (CCCS). said she coun­seled 40 UT students this year because they had fallen into serious debt problems since January. 
"Too few students understand how or why to use credit responsibly," Williams said. "Developing bad credit habits now can impact....__ 
their ability to obtain loans, credit, jobs or housing for years in the future." 
UT Legal Services offers free advice and assistance to students who want to negotiate with creditors or who need advice concerning collection agencies. Legal Services refers employed students who need financial advice to CCCS, which acts as a trustee for such students. 
• UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY 
Few schools ban alcohol on campus 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Last fall, Louisiana State University and the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology experienced a loss 
when two fraternity pledges died of alcohol poisoning. 
This tragedy caused many universities and colleges across 
the country to tackle the issue of alcohol abuse. UK's 
response: a new policy that took effect over the summer. 
The policy mandates alcohol-abuse education for first­
time offenders, fines and probation for secondary offend­
ers and suspension. for people who violating the policy 
three times. Compared with its benchmark institutions, 
UK's policy is a bit more severe. Although the University 
of North Carolina-Chapel Hill and West Virginia University 
are looking into tightening restrictions on alcohol use on 
campus, none of UK's 11 benchmarks have campuses that 
are completely dry, but all have policies that prohibit the 
consumption of alcohol in the open on campus premises. 
• IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Phi Kappa Theta member dies 
AMES, Iowa 
An Iowa State student was found dead Monday night in nis apartment at 117 Beach Ave., according to Ames Police. Ames Police said no foul play is suspected, but the investigation is still ongoing. Kiran Bavikatte, 23., junior in pre-architecture from Bettendorf, was found unresponsive on the floor of a locked room in an apart­ment owned by Phi Kappa Theta. according to the police reports. Bavikatte was a member of the fraternity. The report also said Bavikatte had a history of epileptic seizures. Reports show the police department received a call at 7:53 p.m. from the Phi Kappa Theta house. 2110 Lincoln Way. Chris Rickert, senior in civil engineering and Phi Kappa Theta president, made the call. Police, the fire department and an ambulance were dispatched at 7:58 p.m. and arrived at the scene at 8:01 p.m. The report said a police officer concluded Bavikatte was 
dead soon after arriving at the residence. 
• SoUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~forecast for daytime C<inditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Friday  4, 81 65  
Saturday  ~  79 64  
Sunday  ~84  61  
Monday Tuesday -~~,5"·/0"•.· . ._./""'" "·  ~83 59 ) jb 82 63  

4,Q,~pQ,Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy VIB Associat6d Press GmphicsNet 
"[With CCCS). creditors are more willing to negotiate with interest and fees, which make it the hardest to get out of debt," Williams said. 
She said students get into financial trouble because they do not realize that paying only the minimum balance doesn't decrease their debt. Instead, interest accrues and the overall debt actually increases. 
"The average time it takes to pay off a $5,000 debt with just paying the minimum or even a little. more will take 15 years," Williams said. "Students who only pay the minimum can owe more than they make the first year out of college. That's a problem." 
__, Larry Liu, a psychology senior, said he 
learned this lesson from his first credit card. 
"My first credit card was so convenient," Liu said. "I always treated my friends to dinner thinking they'd pay me back. But I had nothing to show but a huge debt." 
Williams said students should be most careful with credit cards that have the widest range of spending pas­sibilities with low minimum payments. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALifORNIA AT BERKELEY 
Protesters call for student's expulsion 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Protesters from Southern California, joined by UC Berkeley students and Bay Area citizens, gathered on Sproul Plaza yesterday to demand the immediate expulsion of sophomore David Cash from UC Berkeley. Led by the Southern Californians who drove to Berkeley Tuesday night, nearly 100 protesters waved signs and chanted while various speakers used a bull-horn to censure the stu­dent. The protesters claim that Cash is partially responsi­ble for the death of 7 -year-old Sherrice Iverson. In May 1997, Iverson was allegedly strangled to death in a casino outside Las Vegas by 20-year-old Jeremy Strohmeyer, a close friend of Cash's. The protesters said that because of Cash's actions surrounding the incident, he should not be allowed to attend UC Berkeley. Cash has said that he wit­nessed Strohmeyer with the girl shortly before her death and that Strohmeyer confessed the killing to him. 
• UNIVERSITY Of UTAH Charges filed against alleged hacker 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 
The final ASUU elections have been over for more than 
four months. The stories about the elections, however, 
never seem to end. Luke Timmins, a University of Utah 
pre-law major who was running for office under the 
Power in U Party, was charged with computer theft. a 
third degree felony. Timmins allegedly hacked into the U 
computer system April 1 and stole the names, phone num­
bers, e-mail addresses and Social Security numbers of 
23,000 students, faculty and staff. He allegedly did so in 
order to send out campaign literature for the Power in U 
Party. The final ASUU elections took place two weeks after 
the hack, on April 15-16. "Over 13,000 messages were 
sent to individuals included in the compromised file," said 
Clif Drew, associate vice president for academic affairs. 
These e·mailings were sent from luket@xmission.corn. 
ASUU President Doug Dubitsky did not care what the 
information had been used for. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

Arlington Heights 60 88 Denver 54 90 Los Angeles 69 76 Baltimore 89 70 Dallas 78 99 Miami 80 95 Boston 59 76 Elyria 88 65 New Orleans 71 97 Clarence Center 71 84 Honolulu 74 89 Sacramento 80 96 Columbia 77 89 Juneau 52 50 San Francisco 60 74 
zc 
. I' \ I >I
'. '' '' 4.'·~. 1 
>I' I' I I I 1 
'I' 
1 
hiday, August 28, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Summer service sets record 
Cadillac uses ND intern 
By ERICA THESING started doing one myself. It's "It was a good thing for me N~ws Writn such a big thing at this school because I got to know what 
for prototype work
and I wanted to takn advan­it's like on the other end. I got AccPpting positions at food tage of the opportunity while I to go out and see how a large 
By SHANNON GRADY of strategies and business banks. hospitals. summer had the ehanec," he said. portion of our population 
News Writer management for th.e design camps and othnr voluntnnr .Junior .Jennie Tylnc. who lives," she said. "It was a big 
center. "The students get an agpncit)S, I 1)6 Notrn Damn stu­also voluntoered this summer, sacrifice. At first, I wasn't 
Whilo most of the nation opportunity to work in their d P n ts rom pIn;...;.tl--')d~-----"-'-1 didn't need to hear about the sure I made the right decision. 
focused on the massive strike own studio with ready act~(~ss jnrls this 
program from another stu­I gave a lot. but I definitely got 
that halted production of to professionals who can summnr. dent; Tylee had already expe­a lot out or it." 
General Motors Corp~ cars, 30 advise and encourage them Th P I 1Hl rieneed the rewards of sum­Students who have partic­
college students kept busy by on a daily basis. romprisn tlw mor servien the previous year ipated in the program often 
designing new ones for the "At the same timH, the pro­I a r g l) s t and opted to return. Tylec comment that they received 
No. 1 automaker. fessionals get a chance to group nvnr sp1mt her first summer at a more help than they gave, 
The 30 interns were part of contribute to the professional to t•omplntn food bank in western according to Cunningham. 
GM's design center summer growth and creativity of these tlw pro­Massachusetts. organizing She also said that students 
intern program. Their mis­young, creative individuals," gram. fund raiser!<i and applying for in the program discover a 
sion: to develop concept vehi­he continued. "It's a win-win according to Cunningham grants for tho agency. That whole new group of friends 
cles from scratch for the eight for all who are involved.'' s u () experience opened up new through the people they work 
GM marketing divisions. Over 13 weeks, the eigl,t Cunningham, dirP.rtor of sum­carr,er options for her. and with. Nichols experienced this 
Notre Dame senior Allison teams researched each nwr snrvict~ projects. shn decided to spend another with his fellow counselors who 
Johnson was a part of this brand's history, studied th(l Cunningham credits word of' summer in service, this lime were former campers from 
summer's program, and automobiltl market and fore­mouth with hnlping to at a food bank in Detroit. inner-city environments. 
worked on the Cadillac team. casted product trends. inrrnasn thl) popularity of thn "I really enjoyed my project "Being accepted by these 
"It was an awesome experi­After collecting data, the program. and slw said that the from last ynar. so I llgurnd it guys and being able to con­
ence. At school I work with eight teams collaborated on st)rvirn projncts providn stu­couldn't hurt." Tylnc said. tribute was very special to 
all engineers. and it's the designs for each of the dnnts with opportunitiPs to "Arter my two summers. I'm me," Nichols said. 
same every day." she said. automaker's brands. hP Ip ol hP r p n o p Il) • P x p Io r n really leaning towards work­After returning from their 
"But for this, I worked with Then the teams produced a c a r n ~~ r op t i o n s a nd n a r n a ing for a non-prol1t." projects, studnnts attend de­
artists and industrial design­1/3 scale clay model of their tuition <·n~dit. In Detroit, Tylee worked in briefing sessions and then 
ers, and I had to learn how to product, built a mock vehicle SPnior .ltdT Nichols. who vol­tlw inner city, and she remem­have the option of meeting 
communicate completely dif­interior and presented its untPPrnd at a camp for inrwr bers the experience of passing with a small group or going on 
ferently," she said. design to GM dosign center l"ity boys this sumrnnr. first a community of homeless men a two-day retn~at. whieh will 
This multi-disciplinary pro­management for review. lward about tlw program from and women everyday on lwr take place this weekend. 
gram was managed by a team Ideas from each of the eight fornH'r participants and dPcid­way to work. They huddled on Studnnts also write a reflec­
of GM design center person­teams may implemented into ~~d to join. the street corner around two tion paper iJn their experi­
nel. who worked alongside future concept and produetion "I rigun)d it was high limn I dirty (~ouches and a small fire. ences. 
Hotel Prati 
atSMC 
Free food and music 
Saturday 9:00pm at Dalloways 


the students on a daily basis. ears. Last year's Cadillac Each student had a mentor to team, for exampl(l. had its provide guidance in areas project incorporated into a such as designing, sculpting concept ear. Johnson noted. and engineering. "There's a good possibility 
"This program is a terrific that at least otw of our opportunity for both the stu­designs will be put into a dents and their mentors," future show car," Johnson said Larry Fallon, the director said. 
ND organizations win six 1998 CASE awards 
Special to The Observer al design in print category. The magazine's editorial staff 
Notre Dame received six includes editor Kerry Temple, Circle of Excellence Awards at managing editor Carol Schaal, this year's annual convention associate editors John 
of the 
Monczunksi and Ed Cpjem. Council for and art director Don Nelson. the Adva­The Notre Dame Alumni ncement and Association received two Seal Support of of Excellence Awards-one Education for a conference on teaching, (CASE) in titled "A Vocation of Learning Chicago. and a Call to Serve," and a 
The staff of second for a program to "Notre honor 375 alumni during the
Temple
Dame," the May 3, 1997. live telecast of 
University's quarterly maga­"Generations: A Celebration of zine. earned a gold medal for Notre Dame." Notre Dame overall writing and two silver was the only university to medals, one for general excel­receive two awards in alumni lence and another in the visu-relations programming. 
0~e Ne\tt ~ork 0inttS 
Students: 
get an edge! 
Two-Thirds of the "influential leaders" read The New York Times. It is the most widely read Sunday publication and 
the second most widely read weekday publication. The men and women who make up the "influential leaders" are among the upper echelons of government, business acade­
mia, and science.  
save  Whether you want to keep up with events, issues or trends that can help  
money  you in class, help you plan your career  
too!  or broaden your horizens, the nation's premier newspaper gives you an edge.  

To start receiving YOUR subscription to The New York Times at the special student rate, please call 1-800-535-5031. 
Newspaper in Education Expect the World www.nytimes.com 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
'I 
'I 'I' 'I' I I 
Friday, August 28, 1998
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 
Painstaking care was taken risk to the group. 011 then during the renovation to match 
gets the money on the "back 
Web
OMSA
SDH 
end" of the deal.
the tones of both the exterior 
continued from page 1 
"Physical changes made the Oak Room no longer necessary and viable," said David Prentkowski, director of Food Services. 
The ensuing changes would cost 10 times the original con­struction costs. Many students were relieved to learn that despite the thorough renovation, the dining rooms remained vir­tually untouched. The salad, beverage and condiment bars were removed from the center of the dining areas, restoring the layout to its pre-World War II design. A sprinkler system and heating and cooling upgrades were also installed to bring the building up to 1998 safety stan­dards. 
According to Doug Marsh, the project coordinator and archi­tect for SOH, even these struc­tural details were planned with the integrity of the building in mind. For example, contractors tunneled under the existing din­ing room floors to install unin­trusive fire alarms. 
At an initial construction cost of' $1 million. the original Dining Halls Building could serve 3,000 students in 25 minutes with its family-style service. Each place was set with a linen napkin and bread was served on silver plat­ters. Each meal was overseen by a table of priests who sat facing the room at a cloth-laid table on the dais. Every stage of the meal was methodically acceunted for, down to the division of uneaten food into waste and reuse piles. 
Editor John Willy described 
the then-new building as the 
'handsomest structure on cam­
pus,' boasting of its gothic 
design, Indiana limestone and 
terrazzo marble floors. He pref­
aced his article with the obser­
vation that the building was so 
symmetrically designed that 
what is said of one side of the 
building applies equally to the 
other. 
brick and interior floor colors in 
the improvements so that the 
original design by Ralph Adams 
Cramm. a nationally-known 
Gothic Revival architect, 
remained virtually unscathed. 
Vines and landscaping were 
removed from the exterior to 
accommodate the restoration of 
the brick, but will be replaced. 
The addition to the rear of' the 
building which contains the new 
Reekers cafe required a more 
aggressive approach. 
"We can't fool anybody into 
making them think it was built 
in 1927," Marsh said. Still, he 
pointed out that the entire build­
ing "is attractive from virtually 
any angle," and related that the 
first plans for the area were 
rejected because they didn't 
embody the Gothic nature of the 
building. 
One example of technology 
replacing tradition came in the 
area of' limestone on the exteri­
or. The University chose to use 
architectural precast concrete 
instead of limestone because of' 
its cost benefits and function. 
This material, the same bricks 
that were used in the football 
stadium and the Eck Center, 
"looks and acts like limestone," 
according to Marsh. 
Whereas the original food ser­
vice was noted for its exactitude 
and rigidity, Prentkowski 
described the new model as just 
the opposite. With "chaotic" 
being one of the first words that 
comes to mind upon entering 
the new South Dining Hall Food 
Market, it becomes clear that 
the original regimented model · has been abandoned. 
While the Food Market will 
still provide the mainstays of the 
Notre Dame student's diet, 
Prentkowski explained that the 
advantage of the new system is 
that variety will be available all 
the time. 
Marsh said that he believes 
that like its predecessor, the 
new South Dining Hall will be a 
model of innovation and design. 

TAJh a t V Y seems like miles of prepared food now awaits students electing to eat meals at South Dining !/all. 
The Observer/Dalum 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION WELCOME BACK PARlY! 
Alumni-senior Club Saturday, 8/29 starting at 9 p.m. 
Refreshments provided. Open (and Free) for Graduate Students only. 
Please Note: The GSU consists of all Notre Dame "Graduate Students" NOT including Law Students or Business Students. 
Grad Schooii.D. and 21 1.0. needed 
continued from page 1 
them on his show either this week or next, a,ccording to Reid. 
Groups interested in Reid's offer would be responsible for manning the phone line on which Philbin would refer­ence in his promotion. 
011 is an authorized manu­facturer for the University, but, as Reid explained, licens­ing rules prohibit direct sale of the merchandise by his firm. 
Thus, Oil will provide the calendars to interested groups on a consignment basis at no 
PLEASE 
RECYCLE 
THE OBSERVER. 
Huie also introduced the new format for the Coalition Council. 
"In the past, the Coalition Council has been perceived just as a planning council." Huie said, explaining that the council actually has inf1uence with alumnae, faculty and other groups in addition to the student body. 
The council has revised its goals and is looking to estab­lish a Coalition Council Advisory Board to develop agendas for and facilitate meetings. That board will meet monthly and consist of five elected represelftatives. 
continued from page I 
sons other than textbook shop­ping. 
"This new bookstore has an academic presence. It will have one of the most impressive gen­eral book selections in the coun­try. The store will be a social space and a bookstore,'' O'Connor said. 
"Bookstores can be a place to hang out. and that would be very acceptable in the new store," he continued, noting that the facility will have couches and a fireplace. "The new book­store is going to give us the abil­ity to give students some won­derful options. We want to pro­vide excellent services." 

Hair by jill Kuharie at 
Cosmio's Shapes and Lines 
a foll service salon }or men and women 
•latest in cuts and styles 
•color, highlighting and perms 
• styles and updo 's for special occasions 
• quality products including A veda, Nexxus, and Paul Mitchell 
convienently located at 1707 South Bend Ave. (in walking distance from ND) experience and good quality guarunteed! 

BIG LEBC>~SI<I 
FROM THE CREATORS OF "FARGO" 
fU!f~I.MfiiJIWfHrr~r!~Mfm r~a1~ 1w~~wb lffilrwra Jfff~~~~~~ mmw.H ·111 !WtW~!I"IMNNit.a mw~~mw UI.IUif~mN Jlrma ~nc~.«rmoo~ww !ftllllna 
~.~:~~~.J:.. ~. -~~-~~[!!~ ~~~N~~!~~~~~~~~!~YIHW :~~~R~lA~~.r;~H ~ ~~ 
Cinema at the Snite Fri. and Sat. 7:30 and 9:45pm 
Presented by NO Film, Television and Theatre 
www.nd.edu/-cothweb 
• cses .. LQZ 
I' 
't 'I I\ >I 

l;riday, August 28, 1998 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bomb suspect appears in U.S. court 
NEW YOI{K 
Two suspPcts in tlw bombing of thr. U.S.I·:rnbassy in KPnya were snnl to thr. Unitnd Sl.alns to l'acn chargns that could carry thn flPath pPnalty. Onn told thn FBI lw planrwd to di«' as a martyr in thn attack. K«'nya. wary that a triar might invite new tPrrorist assaults. allownd tlw trial to take placn in tlw Unil~~d States, where tr.rrorist laws cow•r attacks against American citizens on fondgn soil. "Wn will not be intimidated by tPrror ... and we arr. determined that soorwr or latPr. one way or other. terrorists will bn lwld accountabln for their crimes," Sncrntary of' Stale Madeleine Albright said. Mohamed Hashnd Daoud AI-'Owhali app<'arPd Thursday in federal court in New York City. lin was one of two suspects rPinasPd by Kenyan authorities to the Unill)d Statns: officials wouldn't say wlwther the otlwr. Mohammnd Saddiq OdPI1. had arrived by Thursday al'ternoon. 
NY bank warns of 
Russian troubles 
NEWYOHK 
In tlw first public indication of the effect of Hussia's economic troubles on United States banks. Hnpublic New York Corp. said Thursday that losses from investments in Hussia would wipe out its third-quarter prof­its. Wall Stn~r.t banking analysts said other big U.S. banks will takn hits -although not as snrious -from their Hussia investments. By itsnlf'. Hussia's finandal woes won't signif­icantly affn1·t U.S. banks. The bigger problem is Hussia's potnntial to drag down world marknts. as it did Thursday. first in Asia. tlwn in 1\uropn and thr. United States and l.atin AmPrica. Hnpublic, the nation's 18th­largest bank holding company in terms of ass1~ts. slashed th1• value of its Hussian debt 
t.o I[) l'nnts on tlw dollar. following an idr.nti­cal action ParliPr this week by thn Hussian govnrnnwnl on its own bonds. 
Ford Recalls F-150 Pickup Trucks 
l>ETHOIT 
Ford Motor Co. said Thursday that it will recall mon~ than a half-million cars and pickup trucks to replace dnfnctive suspension parts that ~·.ould pose safety problems. About :ll 0.000 19 1):~ Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable sndans and station wagons are being n•calll'd to rPpi<L!:n their front coil springs. Ford says tlw springs could break from cracks and corrosion. which wuld damage th~· lirPs. 'J'hn cars bning rncalled are in 21 mostlv NortiH•rn states and Canada wlwrn corrosion is morn of' a problem. 
Composite Volume:
8165.99 682,500,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
!"!)MI'ANY I IS" h.! ll '!l,!'tiAN!jl· S <lAIN PU!CT 
\un \~•urt t' Ill\ \\Ill +.17fl.)l) +J.II.I\ 5.00 llt'llf~l·l I'IIWl'f t.l'Wtil' +l4X.22 +hl.12.~ X5.75 1\lrn\ 1\~rl~ultuu· \1\l,tl +X.U.l +2.~00 s.s \dnl \nllw-1\lll~ \I tTY +11!'\.22 +.11.175 2 .. 175 1\IJV llodyml'lrll' /;\1\1 +5K..U +.X75n 2..175 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
IlillY .flll.Mt .x.x2511 '-25~:::!:\~1 ~~~~~1\''n I \VI -46 Ill ·I.X4.1X 2.15625 t :ompn•hm t ..Hl' <MI' -44,06 ·.1..1~.175 5.!JO t,rupo 1 :.u,o-i\1)1{ til'llVY ·.17.77 -J.2775 5.4 U\A llur,JII'tml Hll\1 .JS.% -4,11 7.125 

Bonnie douses coast with rain 
ASSOCIATED PHESS 
MOHEIIEAD CITY. N.C. 
Bonnie, downgraded to a tropical storm. wrung itself out like a washcloth over North Carolina as it dragged its remnants back toward the sea Thursday. dropping more than 10 inches of rain in places. 
However, forecasters said the chances of severe flood­ing were slight. Many peo­ple in the Carolinas breathed a sigh of relief as the day wore on when it became clear that the wind damage from the hurri­cane's onslaught appeared to be smallPr than expect­ed, too. 
There were no reports of any deaths, serious injuries or widespread damage, although officials say agri­cultural losses could be great. 
"This storm was a breeze compared to Fran," said Wilmington-area construe­lion worker Johnny French. referring to the 1996 hurri­<:ane that killed 24 people in North Carolina and caused $5.2 billion in dam­age. 
Hichard Moore, North Carolina's secretary of pub­lic safety, said:"We could not be more relieved this morning. It seems, for whatever reason, the winds did not do as much damage as expected." 
Moore said Bonnie's dam­age total may equal Hurricane Bertha's in 1996, which ranged from $1 bil­lion to $2 billion. 
"It will be dose," Moore said. "Bertha was primary 

an agricultural damage storm. We won't really know the damages until we can get out in those rural areas." 
The 400-mile-wide storm sloshed ashore Wednesday afternoon at Cape Fear. By Thursday evening, its 115 mph hurricane winds had fallen to 65 mph, but the storm continued to drench the coast as it made its way back toward the Atlantic at a sluggish 9 mph. 
As of the evening, Jacksonville had gotten more than 10 inches of rain. Wilmington 9 and Greenville nearly 8. 
A 20-mile stretch of State Hoad 12 on North Carolina's Outer Banks was buried under 3 feet of water and 4 feet of sand Thursday night and was impassable, authorities said. 
"Believe it or not, we're going to take this hit pretty well," said John Elardo. a forecaster at the National Weather Service office in Newport. 
"Anywhere else in the world. this kind of rain would be a bad situation," he said. "But we have flat land, and dry, sandy soil which is good for absorbing rainfall." Also. the weather had been dry recently in North Carolina, and rivers and creeks were low, Elardo said. 
Late Thursday, Bonnie was 45 miles south-south­east of Elizabeth City. and was expected to move ofT­shore during the night. The Maryland and Delaware coasts braced for rain as it passed a good 40 miles off­shore. 
Tom Atwood emerged from his home when the rain and wind eased and saw streets filled with tree limbs and debris. but every­thing else intact. 
"Seoms like we got vnry litth~ damage, consid(~ring the night wo had last night," he said. "I've got water in my house, but we actually made it out pretty good." 

• RussiA 
Yeltsin faces pressure to resign 
continued to collapse in street trad­may have from Yeltsin and his team.
AssociATED PnESS 
ing, ordinary Hussians struggled to Yeltsin's spokesman indicated that MOSCOW 
make sense of the situation. Should the proposals contained some "fresh, they withdraw savings in rubles? non-standard" ideas. although he
Pressure mounted on Boris Yeltsln to resign Thursday as Parliament 
Stoek up on groceries? Or assume called lawmakers demands for leaders proposed Soviet-style mea­they'll get by somehow as they have power-sharing "clearly overstatod." during other post-Soviet crises? Tho Kremlin, meanwhile, issued a
sures -currency controls. fixed It was clear that the Kremlin is statement appealing to the foreignprices and state ownership -to 
now willing to .ponsider solutions pre­news media "not to spread inacc:urate viously rejected -stops the West is information" about Yeltsin's status.
c:ontain Hussia's 
"'• 
likely to see as moving backward "Any information citing informed
esealating l'inan­cial crisis. 
from a free market. sources about supposed plans for a Chernomyrdin and other govern­rnsignation of the Hussian pn~sident 
.it~' ....,.J~ 
Yeltsin 
ment. .figures held consultations with are fictitious and untrue," the state­
spokesmo.n Sergei Yastrzhembsky 
top Parliament leaders -most of ment said. 
v e heme n tl y 
__..___.....____ 
them Communists and other hard­In Washington, Whit!'l House denied that the Yeltsln liners -who presented a draft plan spokesman Barry Toiv said Thursday prosidnnt was 
for fixing the economy by bringing there would be no comment until ofli­preparing to step down. Both 
back Soviet•style economic controls. cials figure out what is happening. The possibilities include nationalizing Communist leaders also continuod
Washington and the Kremlin said 
major industries, controlling prices to pressure Yeltsin politically.
Thursday that next week's Yeltsin­Clinton summit, set for Tuesday in and fixing currency exchange rates. Gennady Seleznyov, the Communist "Privatization didn't lead to a speaker of Parliament's ](lwer hous~~.
Moscow. was still on. 
restructuringof the economy and has said they were preparing a bill to lay
The president's new prime minis· ter, Viktor Chernomyrdin, claimed 
failed to create an effective class of out the privileges available to a for­
Thursday night that "although {the property owners,'' the draft said. mer president, including mnmber­''Tho situation dHmands incrHasing ship in the uppor house for 1 0 yHars. 
situation} is certainly not simple, it is 
absolutoly controll:tble." But there the role of the state in regulating the Meanwhile, the financial markets 
was no sign Yeltsin or his lieutenant economy.'' continued to crumble. The Central Kremlin officials took part in the Bank suspended all currency trading,
had begun to contain the crisis. 
deliberations, but it was unclear how saying the suspension would contin­
As exehange markets remained oflieially frozen but the ruble's value 
much support the specific proposals ue Friday. 

, ____ 
......-~,.----......---r--~:----.......-----.---.......,--...-,-.­
>I I I I
'I 'I
·-·.
' i '' 
I I I' I' 1 f \ ~ I • ' 'I •
'' 
.-·­
Friday, August 28, 1998 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENTS 
--~ 
t 
mmunity­
~sc 
Service 
CENTER FOR _, .
THAN!( YOU!!! 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

To all the students who gave their summer to service-learning in communities across the United States, Hong Kong, Canada, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, El Salvador, Brazil and England. Your dedication to compassion and social justice was evident in the relationships you formed with members of your daycamps, shools, AIDS programs, shelters, children's homes, outreach centers, clinics, women's care programs and hospitals, etc... 
Summer Service Projects-HispanidAfrican-American Leadership Intern Program -National Youth Sports Program -Campaign for Human Development --ISSLP 
Laura Abeln Meg Colleton Susan Fritts Janine Kirkowski Kevin Melchoir Walter Poirier Vijay Thangamani 
SSP
Toshi Kitami Amador Minjares Erin Potempa Leah Toeniskoetter 
Eugenio Acosta Jennifer Crone Erin Galbraith Erika Cunha Amy Gawe!ek Margie Kizer Maureen Misener Scott Potter Maria Trevino 
Bridget Agnew Kim Gibson Becky Klein Brigid Molen Julie Poulos Jim Ulager 
Rene Aguirre Ann David Zenaida Alonzo Sienna DeAaostino Mark Godish Carol Konrad Brian Monberg Branda Pullin Mark Unrine 
LIP
Colleen Quinlan Maite Uranga
Shaunti Althoff Ashley DeBruyne Nikolas Green Colleen Kraft Vanessa Mora Joseph Ursie 
Angela Anderson Carla DeJohn Alison Groot Violet Kramer Kelli Moran Rhonda Ramos Marty Moran Juliette Rederstorff Quinn Vandenberg 
Joe Applewhite Melissa DeRosa Laura Guest Allison Krilla Katie Reichmann Cynthia Vega 
Stephen Audretch Lauren Destino Raul Gutierrez Carly Krum Cara Motter 
"" 
Amoldo Lacayo Kathy Motyka Emily Reimer Michele Visnosky 
Patrice Balhoff Andrew DiBella Chis Hahn ACCr•N 
Tracy Mundy Rona Reodica Courtney White 
Maria Banas Ashley Dickerson Kara Hamby Sarah Lalley Karen Wiener 
Sofia Barbato Natalie Dietsch Rebecca Hammel Dawn Lardner Kristine Munoz Ramsey Russell Susan Barclay Amanda Dillon Dennis Haraszko Any Lautz Janine Murphy Maureen Ryan Bethany Wilson Lacey Harraka Mark Leen Kathy Murphy Theresa San Luis Jamie Winter 
Elizabeth Barger Mark Dolan Megan Barry Chenell Donadee Dameyon Harrison Beth Leliaert Mark Nakajima Trina Sandberg Beth Wladyka Marie Batz Jamie Donnelly Joe Hay Ellen Leuchtmann Erin Neil Rita Beatriz Scheidler Brian Wolford 
Mary Bertsch Michael Downs Anne Hayes Jackie Leivense Josh Nemeth Sally Scherer Chak Kei Woo 
ISSLP 
Eriin Lillis Jeff Nichols Emily Schmitt Marina Ziolkowski 
Sara Boblick Erin Dunnigan Carrie Hedin Maya Borso Mike Earley Erin Herlihy Rachel Lustig Teri Noone Ellie Schuhmann Josh Bourgeois Meghan Eckstein Andy Herman Megan Magee Kathleen O'Boyle Karena Shiel Maria Eidietis Melissa Hogg Cailin Mani Kathleen O'Brien Nicole Shirilla 
Lizzie Brady Erin Brady Tom Enright Bridget Holland Meagan Marcuccilli Christine O'Reilly David Seerveld 
Kristen B ree George Fackler Karen Housler Jake McCall 
Mary Beth Anthony Sieh Dawn Johnson Kristie McCann Patterson Stephanie Snyder 
CHD
Dina Brick Katy Fallon Sandra Johnson Sheila McCarthy Nathan Payovich Scott Soderstrom 
Christie Brown Jim Farrell 
Tonio Buonassisi Kimberly Farrow Doug Jones Dina McClorey Kathy Peak Megan Speaks Warren Pereira Kristen Spellacy 
Augusto Camara Clare Felton Jody Jones Leah McCormick Angie Campbell Michael Fierro Andam June Dan McDonough Rebecca Perry Malin Stearns Angie Carbonetti Camille Fitzpatrick Walter Kasinskas Kelly McGeever Michelle Persinger Kate Steer Alma Carrillo Kelly Fitzpatrick Marita Keane Nathan McGregor Ellen Peters Dan Strobel 
h¥s:l:l 
Mike Cherubini Megan Fitzpatrick Vincent Keating Marcella Mclntryre Karen Poggi Kathleen Sucher Nate Medland Sarah Sweetman 
Meghan Cokely David Frick Peggy Keller 
Remember the meeting/Celebration: Saturday, August 29th from 9:00-Noon at the CSC! 
ALOHA friday. 0800PM-1100PM Who•s Yo Daddy &Letter 8 Performance by the Hawaii Club Fieldhouse Mall 
(Rain Location: Lafortune Ballroom) 
Tropical Polynesian-style evening at NO. Tiki torches bordering the dance area, music by campus bands, leis, hulas, skirts, pineapples, food and frosty mocktails (courtesy of Flipside). 
welcome week 
CINEMA saturday. Swingers at dusk Scream to follow 
Fieldhouse Mall (Rain Location: Lafortune Ballroom) 
Large outdoor projection movies. Keep an eye out for free popcorn, glow stuff, and other trinkets. Bring a blanket and get comfy. 

www.nd.edu/-sub 

~ I f • 1
1
' 'I I 
~~~ jlr ',1, II \:• tl I --.-~~--­
! ' 1 I ~ , \ r 
'!' 1 I 1 I I ' ' 
Friday, August 28, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
Ho~v to 
Pack for College. 

Big Value Cookie·s 
18-0unce Package
i7$dvari•o·o 


Kroger Tortilla Chips 
8 To 10-0unce Bai 
$r9 


Vielbilt Microvvave 
600-Watt 
$ 88 


We Accept
• 

Check Cashing Services 
Items and Prices in this ad are good at all South Bend, IN Kroger Stores Through Sunday, September 13th. 
2 • 
Bud Longnecks 
24-Count 
$1189 
Sauder Furniture 
Bookcase, TV Stand, Desk 
:$1488 
Rubbermaid 
Laundry Basket 
$299 
Boone's Farm Wine 
750ml Assorted Varieties 
$179 

WEf,l.,Sil\ \!fir:lFER 
e The fastest way to send money~ 
Any Questions? 



r-----------~----------------, 
''I. I ')' 'I I
' ' ' 'I'
• I I 
It >I
'' .' 

IEWPOINT 
page 8 os~ERVER Friday, August 28, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT Mf.Ry's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, None Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brert Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet ScrNE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow 
Kristi Klitsch CoNTROLLER.....................................Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studcms of the Universicy of Notre Dame duLac and 
Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessariJy reflect rhe policies of rhc administration ofeither institution. The news is 
reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the 
Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries,letters and 
columns presem the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those ofThe ObseiVer. Vicwpoim space is available to aU 
members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
through letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-454I Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spores 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day EditorNiewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• 

Stats Show Most Rapes Happen in First Month 

TUCSON, Ariz. 
In the first four weeks of school, the hardest lessons to learn may not be in the classroom. 
Most rapes and sexual assaults occur within the first month of school to 18-to 19-year-old women, said Matt Sanders, assistant director of the Oasis Center for sexual assault and relationship violence. 
"There's an excessive amount of social­izing that goes on as people orient them­selves to the scene," Sanders said. "It's a time when people are most vulnerable because they're testing their boundaries and limits in regards to sexual contact and alcohol use." 
A 1987 study conducted by UA profes­sor Mary Koss showed that one in four women are sexually assaulted in their lifetime and that 84 percent of the rape victims knew the perpetrator. 
"People need to be safe and aware of their surroundings," Seastone said. "We try to tell people to watch their alcohol intake, effectively communicate with the person they are seeing, or going out with, and let someone know where you are and who you're going out with." 
Sanders said more than 60 percent of reported sexual assaults at the UA involve alcohol. Arizona law states that if either partner consumes alcohol, legal consent to sex cannot be given and the potential for rape is present. 
A 1996 study by Antonia Abbey, an assistant professor at Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan, showed that 95 percent of campus sexual assaults involved alcohol use by either the man, woman or both. Alcohol is also dal)gerous because of the possibility of being slipped a "date rape" drug, Sanders said. 
"People need to have someone watch their drinks," Seastone said. "Tucson is seeing an increase of roofies (rohypnol) put into their drinks, so people may not know about a sexual assault because they pass out." 
Date rape drugs commonly cause mem­ory loss and disorientation, Sanders said. 
"It's very problematic for people to pin­point that they've had a date rape drug used on them because they can't remem­ber," Sanders said. 
"People who use the (date rape) drugs obviously' don't really care about the per­son they're with. They may be using mas­sive doses or doing things that can lead to death," Sanders said. "This is a very pow­erful depressant and if you slow some­one's heart enough you can kill them." 
Partner communication Koss's study found that 84 percent of men who had committed what met the legal definition of rape said they did not feel that what they did was actually rape. 
Sanders said that sexual assault is defined by Arizona law as any unwanted sexual contact, mostly centered around the breasts, anus and genitals. Rape is defined as unwanted penetration. 
Dan Retlly, adviser for the Campus Acquaintance Rape Educators, said a stu­dent health survey conducted in the spring of 1998 found that 90 percent of last year's freshman had one or no sexual partners. 
Reilly also quoted a survey of incoming freshman men that states that the majori­ty have had one or no sexual partners, but that they plan to increase that num­ber once at the UA. He added that men need-to make sure they have consent from their partner before engaging in sexual activity. 
"Be very certain, especially if you're not sexually experienced, to talk to your part­ner and make sure you're getting consent and everyone is OK with what's going on," he said. "Make it good for both peo­ple-if the woman is enjoying the experi­ence, she'll make it pretty clear." 
Women are not the only victims of rape and sexual assault; men are at risk as well, Sanders said. 
"One in six men are assaulted in a life­time," Sanders said, adding that both men and women frequently use the center. 
"It's really important for men to realize they are also at risk because we've labeled this as a woman's issue for way too long," Sanders said. "Everyone needs to be concerned about it and invested in changing it." Sanders said that sexual assault and rape statistics are changing. 
"Two years ago we had maybe eight cases of sexual assault or relationship vio­lence," Sanders said. "Now we have many more." 
"We've had an increase in reported cases but we don't want to confuse that with an increase in violence. People are just talking about it while more and more services are provided so people can get out, get medical and legal advice and find themselves in a safe place," Sanders said. 
He said that between 1995 and 1997 there were about 80 sexual assaults and 80 instances of relationship violence reported to the Oasis center. 
"It's nice to have a clear picture of what happens in a college setting as opposed to perpetrating the silence. If you can't talk about it, you can't do anything about it," Sanders said. Seastone stressed the importance of counseling for all victims. 
"The important thing is for someone to go and get help at the hospital because they need to talk to someone psychologi­cally to get through the matter," Seastone said. 
An Arizona statute provides sexual assault victims with free hospital treat­ment. Hospital personnel are required to notify police ifthey treat a sexual assault victim. Police who come to the hospital to file a report, however, cannot force some­one to talk about the experience. 
Freedom Rice, a crisis intervention coordinator for the Tucson Rape Crisis Center, said a quick phone call to the Sexual Assault Resource Service can arrange for a trained nurse and counselor to be with the victim at the hospital. 
Reilly said the resource service nurses were volunteers, with special training in sexual assault and emergency exams after an attack. 
Following an assault, victims are given the option of preserving evidence by com­pleting a series of examinations called a rape kit. The examinations must be con­ducted within 72 hours of the attack. 
"The physical exam for the rape kit is solely for collecting evidence," Hice said. "If the victim doesn't want to prosecute they won't receive an exam." 
Seastone urges any victim to complete the rape kit, even if they arc not certain they want to prosecute the perpetrator. 
"We ask that you allow us to gather evi­dence because sometimes you can't make that decision (whether or not to prose­cute) on the spot," Seastone said. 
Immediately after an attack, anyone who has been sexually assaulted or raped should be careful not to throw away clothes, douche, shower or in any other way destroy physical evidence, Sanders said. Police recommend placing each arti­cle of clothing in a paper bag to avoid the risk of contamination. 
"The real danger is letting this stufT take over your life, not receiving medical attention, not knowing your options and not getting counseling," Sanders said. "It can really get in the way of your goals, academic, personal and professional." 
Sanders said that victims should realize they are not alone. If a friend is a victim, Reilly said to be supportive and feel free to ask questions of the Oasis or Tucson Rape Crisis centers. 
"Educate your friends," Reilly said. "lf you have a friend in need, ask questions for them." 
This column first appeared in the Arizona Daily Wildcat at the University of Arizona and has been reprinted here courtesy ofthe U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'conventionality is not 
morality. Self-right­
eousness is not religion. To 
attack the first is not to 
assail the last.' 
-Charlotte Bronte 

I I ',·.' 'I 'I I I I 'I' 'I'
.'' '' ''' '' 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE Friday, August 28, 1998 BSERVER page 9 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bradley's Presence Brings Mixed Respones 
I writn to wnkomn Son. Bill Bradley to the University of Notre Dame. In his 1996 book, Time Present. Time Past. Sen. Bradlny writes. "Amt\riean dvilization is like a three legged stool. witll govP.rnnwnt and the private sector bning two lPgs and tlw third being eivil society, tlw plare wlwn• WI\ livP, ndueatn our kids, wor­ship our God, and assodatt) with our neigh­bors." 
Notre Dame is a both a participant in and a wtalyst to this third log of ''civil socir.ty". inspir­ing Pthieal rnllPction and nnrouraging bold moral wmmitnwnts. This is true beeause Notn~ DamP is mom than a university; it is a Catholic univnrsity. It is more than a place whern we live and lnarn; it is a placn where we eneountt~r God and endeavor to build a Christian community that n~fkc:ts this nncounwr. Snn. Brad loy's snn­sitivity and lt)adt~rship in improving rac:e rela­tions and in building strongt~r t:ommunities ean only lwlp us in this nndnavor. 
Tlw respnct that Notrn Damn students havn for lifo is passional!) and deep. Ms. Maureen Kramlich's h)ttnr to the editor of August 25, I 'I'IS. dearly t\Xt\mplilies this passion. Ms. Kramlich thinks it hard to imagine that Sen. Bradley has much to contribute to Notre Dame. I belinve wn haw mueh to gain. however. in observing his styln or civil dialogue aimed at advancing human dignity and thr. eommon good -two rh!)rished principles of Catholic: social tt•arhing. 
Son. Bradley, you arn a srholar and a peace­maknr. This uniwrsity is the better for your bning her!~. I think you will lind many at this univnrsity 1mg~r to learn from your cxpnrienees and commitment to .i usticc. 
And maybe you wuld teach our basketball tnams a trick or thrn1~. 
Sean B. O'Brien ND '95, ND Law '01 Aut:ust 27. 199H 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

In reference to the letter to the editor entitled "Bradley brings poor abortion record to Notre Dame" my roommate and I were in total agrep,ment with Maureen Kramlich that Bill Bradley has no place at Notre Dame. 
We were outraged, however. by the ma­soning that she gave. Maureen believes that Senator Bradley's voting record on abortion means that he can not bring anything to the University. Don't get us wrong, we are by no means endorsing abortion. However, we think that Maureen has overlooked a more important !law in Senator Bradley's past. 
Perhaps the darkest skeleton in the sena­tor's closet is his former career with the New York Knicks. We all know that after mass students go back to their rooms and practice their second religion, Bulls-ianity, where they tell stories of how Michael walks on water and turns gatorade to wine. 
If the senator was really smart he would have played for "Da Bulls, yet he chose to play for the Judas of the National Basketball Association, the New York Knicks. As a mid­western, value-oriented school, we feel it is pathetic that the student body has missed the big picture and allowed this great evil to persist. We must not allow Chicago and its purity to be corrupted by east coast influ­ences. 
Maybe next time we want a professor we can look to a real American hero, Mike Ditka. Thank you and GO BULLS!!!! 
Todd Callais 
John Schirano 
Sophomores 
St. Edwards Hall 
August 26, 1998 
Denial of Life Inside Womb Demeans it Outside 
Amidst all of the rhetoric and word games that have charaetnrized the abor­tion d!\batt•., it is nasy to lose sight of the real ddinition of what it means to bn pro-lifP. 
Too many tinws, tlw pro-life position is isolated as a purely anti-abortion position. and imagt~s of banner-waving protnstnrs blocking the entrances or abortion clinics dominate our perception of tho pro-lifer. What is lost is the idea of what the pro-lifer is lighting for: that is. thn gift of life. to be rnspected not only in the womb but in CVI)ry stage tlwrnaf'tnr.Thn pro-lifer rnspe1:ts not only thn life of thr. unborn baby, but the lifo of every human pnrson. especially those who are most vulnerable. 
As I was driving one day, I happened to glance at the bumper of a young woman's ear in front of me and read the following messages: "llappy Childhood Lasts a Lifetime-Prevent Child Abuse" and "People Who Abuse Animals Barely Stop There." Exaetly, f thought! Then, my eyes wandr.red to the final bumper sticker plastered on the baek of the ear: "If You Can't Trust Me with A Choke, Ilow Can You Trust Me With a Baby?" 
I wondered at the fact that this young woman could protest child abuse with onn bumper stieknr while neglecting to undt~rstand that the other was in far.t condoning abuse within the womb-a practice that indeed "rarely stops tlwrt)." I wondnrnd if' she remembered how tlw supportnrs of' Hoc v. Wade had touted abortion as a solution to child abusn. and I wondtlred if' she realized that the incidtmces of child abuse had only skyrocknted sinee that infamous against child and animal abuse) by also condoning a procedure destructive to life in the womb. 
Whnn we disrespect life at one stage, aren't we in danger of translating this disrespeet to all stages of life? When we allow ourselves the right to distort the idea of when life begins. we can more easily justify our right to determine when life ends -a scenario which has been witnessed in the recent legaliza­tion of assisted suicide in Oregon and the ongoing praeticc of capital punish­ment in our nation. 
When we can dismiss life in the womb as economically burdensome and unde­serving of protection, we can more easi­ly refuse the responsibility to protect any life that poses any kind of burden to us. No doubt this kind of attitude has fueled many people's unwillingness to support the burden of welfare recipi­ents. immigrants, and other marginal­ized and vulnerable groups of people. 
One of the most articulate supporters or what Catholics have embraced as the "consistent ethic of life" is Helen Alvaro, pro-life spokesperson for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops (NCCB.) In Pro-Life Today: The Struggle Continues, she recognizes the eonnee­tion that exists between denial of life to those in the womb and the demeaning of life outside the womb. She explains that "the last twenty-five years of' abor­tion on demand and its accompanying rhetoric of' "freedom of choice" have helped bring about a counterrevolution in the way people think about authentic freedom." (p. 18). She goes on to write, "'Choice,' by its very nature, is about no choice but to submit."' (p. 19). In other words, years of feeding and fos­tering a "my ehoice" mentality have cre­ated a threat not only to unborn babies, but to anyone who falls under the cate­gory of weak or vulnerable persons. 
Is there a solution to the attitude of a society so intensely intolerant of weak­ness and so fanatically committed to personal choice that it would resort to violence to eliminate the first and uphold the other? 
Alvare writes, "While such a distortion of the meaning of human freedom is shocking, it forced us to respond with a notion of 'freedom' powerful enough to replace 'choice,' to embrace the com­mon good, and to respect truth all at once.That notion is built on fidelity­not because WH choose whom we will love but because God has chosen us to love others no matter what." (p. 20). 
Love others no matter what. Look upon all individuals as blessings and not as burdens. Recognize the inevitability of weakness in all people and our utter dependence on God and on each other. 
These are the lessons and the yearnings of the pro-life movement. 
As the Notre Dame community, we can work to uphold the authentic image of what it means to be pro-life. We don't all have to be banner-waving activists to consider ourselves pro-lifers, but we do need to have courage to stand up against any attitude or practice that threatens to demean the dignity of lifo. 
We can be the teachers, the lawyers, the physicians. the politicians, the hus­bands and wives, the fathers and moth­ers, the men and women who carry into our jobs and our everyday lives the con­viction that life -all life -is a gift to be treasured and a gift worth defending. 
Samantha Snyder Senior, Howard Hall Co-President, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life August 27, 1998 
Viewpoint seeks editors 
and columnists for 
1998~ 1999. 
Supnmw Court decision morn than 25 what the individual wants, free of any yt~ars ago. concerns for the common good. It tends I was saddtHwd that this young to be unfettered by standards such as 
Call Eddie at 1-5303.
woman had unwittingly wnakened the right and wrong or truth and falsehood 
admirable. life-enhancing causes she ... In the end, it becomes 'the freedom of was trying to promote (the campaign the strong against the weak who have 


-.--.~~~ . '----.--.,-~---,-.---·
'. 'I I 'I I I I I I ''. .'. • It I I' ' .. 'I 
w D 


OTHE BSERVER 

SUB presents on-campus solutions for fun 

'WEJUST WANT TO WELCOME THE ENTIRE CAMPUS BACK TO SCHOOL. WE WANT THE FRESHMEN TO SEE 
WANT EVERYONE TO HAVE SOME flJN.' 
ALOHA FRIDAY 
8-11 P.M. 
SUB welcomes all students back to campus with a tropical Hawaiian­theme evening. Campus bands-Letter 8 and Who's Yo' Daddy­will play at Fieldhouse Mall. Food, "mocktails," leis, hulas, pineap­ples and tiki torches will contribute to the evening's atmosphere. The Hawaiian Club will also host a dance and provide music throughout the evening. Rain location will be LaFortune Ballroom. 
MOVIE MADNESS 9 P.M.-1 A.M. 
North Quad will become your local drive-in movie theater tomorrow night at 
dusk. "Swingers" will begin the evening and "Scream" will immediately follow 
on a large projection screen. free popcorn, glow stuff, candy and drinks will be 
available.
Photo courtesy of Dimension Films 
-·--­
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
SUB AND WHAT WE DO AND WE JUST 
RYAN MASON DmECTOI/ oF CREATIVITY FOR SUB 

'' I' '', . ''
'' '' '' 
I' ', ''' '. . ''
'' '' 
_..,..... 
w ne D 
OTHE BSERVER 

Offcampus destinations for diversions 
Even though classes have started, there's no excuse for letting your summer tan disappear 
Warren Dunes 
Tlw Warren Dunes, located on the sanely and sun­clrendwd shores of Lake Michigan. provide an opportunity to soak up the end-of-summer rays before your class work gets too tough. Winter comes quiekly in South Bend, so take advantage of thn warm weather while it lasts. 
I low to get there: 
I. Take U.S. 31/Indiana Hoacl 933* north to Cleveland 
2. 
Turn left on Cleveland 

3. 
Continue to U.S. 3l (north) 

4. 
Turn right on U.S. :31 

5. 
Continue north on U.S. 31 to State Houte 12 


b. Take state route 12 west to 1-94 north 
7. Follow 1-94 north watching for the Warren Dunes exit S.Exit and follow signs 
Total travel time: approximately 45 minutes 
Henwrnber, parking at the dunes costs $5 a ear and no alehohol is permitted. The park closes at dusk. 
* used to be 33. but the name changed last year. 
kSpend some money at Michigan City 
follorv the blue path to sunshine 
Y

(_,u've spent enough on books. Your par­ents just forked out half a semester's 
worth of tuition. Your wallet is empty. What do you do now'? Answer: VISA. Mastercard and Discover. And where do you go'? The Michigan City outl11t stores. 
Courtesy of www.gap.com 
S
tor!ls: J Crew. Gap, Ann Taylor (The Loft), Halph Lauren (Polo), Britdws. Boston Trader's, Eddie Bauer, Nautiea, Bass, Guess, llaiH~S. Coach, Corningwan~. Dansk. Fannie May, Scoop's lee Cream and much, much more. 
I low to get tlwrn: 
I. Take U.S. 31 (also Indiana IJ:B) North to the Indiana Toll Hoad. 2.(;et on thn Indiana Toll Hoad (1-S0/90). 
3. 
linad Wllst (towards Chieago} to thll Miehigan City exit. 

4. 
(;nt off, turn right and follow the signs. 


Total Travel Time: 40 minutes 
·--­

f,tAP
Courtesy of www.guess.com 
Movies 10 (254-9685) $3.75 with student ID 
Showplace 16 (299-6063) $6.50 after 6 p.m. 

-
UP East and West (277-7336) $6.25 after 6 p.m. 
Scottsdale Mall ( 291-4583) $6.50 after 6 p.m. 
Reacly Theater (616-683-1112) $3.50 after 6 p.m. 
~--------~.-....,_---.­
• f 
'I f' 'I 'f
t' t
t
'I' '' 
Friday, August 28, 1998
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
•MLB 
·-~ Mets' loss keeps NL wildcard race within one game 
Associared Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Ellis Burks, Jeff Kent and Shawon Dunston homered as the San Francisco Giants tightened the NL wild-card race with an 11-3 victory over the New York Mets on Thursday. Danny Darwin pitched 5 2-3 strong innings for just his second win since June 8 and drove in his first run of the season for the Giants, who have won five of six. 
Burks, hitting .364 since joining the Giants in a June 31 trade with Colorado. hit his 19th homer and add an RBI single. Dunston had a three-run pinch-hit homer. and Kent added his 23rd homer of the season. 
Bill Mueller added a two-run double for the Giants, who took two out of three games against New York to move a game behind the Mets in the race for the wild card. The Chicago Cubs, who had a night game at Colorado, began the day a game behind New York. 
Mike Piazza hit his 25th homer, a two­run shot, in the sixth for the Mets. Piazza went 3-for-3. including a pair of singles. 
The Mets also scored in the fourth when Brian McRae hit into a bases-loaded dou­ble play. McRae, 1-for-27 in his career against Darwin, had been the fifth-tough­est player to double up in the NL. 
Cubs 11, Rockies 10 
Sammy Sosa didn't take advantage of hitter-friendly Coors Field, but teammates Mark Grace, Brant Brown and Mickey Morandini did Thursday night as the Chicago Cubs beat the Colorado Rockies 11-10 in 10 innings. 
On a night when Sosa went 2-for-5 with one RBI but no home runs, leaving his total at 52, Morandini delivered the win­ning hit in the lOth, tying Chicago with New York in the NL wild-card race, one game ahead of San Francisco. 
Lance Johnson reached on a fielder's choice grounder, stole second and scored on Morandini's third hit of the night, a one-out single to right off Mike Munoz (2­2). 
Grace had three hits hits and four RBis. and Brown had a three-run homer for the Cubs. who rallied from a 9-3 deficit and matched a season high with 19 hits. 
Eastern Division w L 
Atlanta 88 45 
NY Mets 73 60 
Philadelphia 64 70 
Montreal 5 I 83 
Florida 47 86 
Central Division WL 
Houston 83 51 
Chicago Cubs 72 61 
Pittsburgh 64 68 
Milwaukee 63 70 
St. Louis 62 70 
Cincinnati 6I 72 
Western Division WL 
San Diego 87 47 
San Francisco 7I 62 
Los Angeles 66 67
-Colorado 62 72 
Arizona 50 84 

Grace's two-run double in the eighth put Chicago ahead 10-9. 
Chicago rallied for five runs in the sev­enth, including Brown's homer and a solo shot by Jose Hernandez. to cut Colorado's lead to 9­8. 
Terry Mulholland (4-5) pitched two innings, and Rod Beck got three straight out for his 38th save. 
Yankees 6, Angels 5 
Bernie Williams snapped an 0-for-12 
slump with an HBI
double off the ceo-
Eastern Division NY Yankees Boston Baltimore Toronto Tampa Bay Central Division Cleveland Kansas City Minnesota Chicago White Sox Detroit Western Division Anaheim Texas Seattle Oakland 
L_ 
ter-field wall with one out in the 11th inning Thursday night as the New York Yankees matched their 1997 win total by beating the Anaheim Angels 6-5. 
With Derek Jeter on second, Williams drove a 1-0 pitch from Mike Fetters (2-8) to deep left-center that Anaheim center fielder .Jim Edmonds couldn't run down before crashing into the wall. 
The Yankees, mired in a mini-slump the past 10 games, improved to 96-36 with 30 games remaining. 
Anaheim, a possible postseason oppo­nent for New York this year, won three of five games this week at Yankee Stadium to win the season series 6-5. New York leads every other season series. 
.Jay Tessmer, who began the season in Double-A and only joined the Yankees on Wednesday. made his major league debut and got the win in relief. 
Chuck Knoblauch's sacrifice fly in the eighth had given the Yankees a 5-4 lead, but the Angels tied it in the ninth on Orlando Palmeiro's one-out HBI single off Hamiro Mendoza. 
Trailing 4-3, New York had tied it on pinch-hitter Paul O'Neill's sacrifice fly in the seventh and taken the lead in the eighth on Knoblauch's flyout. The Yankees then blew a lead for the fifth straight game of the series. 
Cone failed in his attempt to become the majors' first 19-game winner. 
Finley also was all over the place, giving up three runs. seven hits and five walks in five-plus innings. 
Braves 6, Cardinals 4 
Mark McGwire's glove made the news Thursday night, not his bat. 
The St. Louis Cardinals' first baseman remained at 54 home runs and hurt his team with a fielding error that led to three runs in a 6-4 loss to the Atlanta Braves . 
McGwire. who has seven homers in the Cardinals' last 11 games, was 0-for-4, dropping him to 3-for-23 (.130) against Atlanta this year with one homer and one RBI. 
Neagle allowed one hit during the first six innings and struck out nine as Atlanta won for the sixth time in seven games. The Cardinals have lost six straight. 
McGwi.re, who is two homers ahead of Chicago's Sammy Sosa, has 29 games remaining to catch the record of 61, set 
by Roger Maris in 1961. 
The most notable play for McGwire came with two outs in the second inning and run­ners on first and sec­
Streak 
ond. He went to his left 
Won 1 for a grounder byWon 1 
Ozzie Guillen and 
Lost 5 
made a stab at the ball 
Lost 7 
instead of trying to getWon2 
in front of it. Streak 
The ball bounced Lost 1 
past him down the line Won I 
as Javy Lopez and Won9 
Andruw Jones -who Won 1 
both reached on two­out singles -scored.
Lost 5 
Neagle, a .140 hitter
Lost I 
with only two RBis
Streak 
coming in, followed
WooS 
with an RBI double for
Lost 1 
a 3-0 lead. 
Won2 
Neagle fanned six 
Lost 1 
straight before tiring in Lost 2 
the eighth, when the Cardinals closed to 6-3. Placido Polanco had an HBI double, Willie MeGee had a sacrifice fly and Eli Marrero chased Neagle with a double ofi' the wall in left­center. 
Neagle also singled and scored in the fifth off Matt Morris (4-4) and Andrum Jones added his 23rd homer for the Braves. Andres Galarraga had an HBl sin­gle in the fifth and a sacrifice fly in the seventh. 
Ligtenberg, Atlanta's third pitcher, got three outs for his 24th save, allowing Hon Gant's 21st homer. With runners at first and third, McGee hit a game-ending grounder to deep shortstop, jamming his right leg on the first-base bag. 
Mariners 10, Indians 4 
Alex Hodriguez hit his 37th homer and the Seattle Mariners responded to manag­er Lou Piniella's hat-kicking tirade with a 10-4 victory over the Cleveland Indians on Thursday night. 
The Mariners, mired in a disappointing season, avoided their first three-game sweep at Cleveland since 1992. 
In their first at-bat since Piniella's ninth-inning, hat-flipping outburst on Wednesday night, the Mariners scored four runs in the first on two walks and an error by .Jaret Wright (11-8). 
After the Indians twice pulled within a run, Hodriguez led ofT the seventh with a 404-foot homer to center that made it 6-4. Paul Shuey allowed a run to score in the eighth when he threw wildly to third on Shane Monahan's sacrifice, and Joey Cora hit a three-run homer to right on the next pitch to make it 10-4. 
Cleveland's David .Justice broke out of a season-long slump with three hits, includ­ing his first homer since Aug. 3. Kenny Lofton hit his 12th homer, and Sandy Alomar snapped an 0-for-15 slump with a HBI double for the Indians. 
Jamie Moyer (11-8) allowed four runs and nine hits in six innings, walking two and striking out four. Wright gave up six runs-five earned -and 10 hits in six­plus innings. 
With socks down and Thome still on the disabled list Thursday night with a broken right hand, the Indians dropped to 23-24 since the All-Star break. It was their fourth loss in 11 games. 

PCT .662 .549 .478 .381 .353 PCT .619 .541 .485 .474 .470 .459 PCT .649 .534 .496 .463 .373 
GB 
15 24.5 37.5 4I GB 
10.5 18 19.5 20 21.5 GB 
15.5 20.5 25 37 
Home 47-22 42-30 35-37 33-39 27-42 Home 43-21 43-27 37-32 33-37 35-28 27-36 Home 46-15 37-27 36-26 33-32 24-37 
Classifieds 
L__N_o_T_I_c_Es_ 
Are you a music lover who needs extra cash? Orbit Music in Campus Shoppes is looking for part-time help. Retail experience preferred, but you may get by on a shiny personality. Stop by 1841 South Bend Ave for an application. 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS OR ND­SMC EVENTS. CALL 
243-0658. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAMPUS. 219-177· 6832. 
___.l I FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with ortho­pedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New.never used,still in plastic.$225 219-862-2082 
Value Range $1000/$1500 Dependable·6 cylinder Will accept Best Offer. 1985 PONTIAC FIERO CALL (219)287-6946 
2 bikes, $20 ea. 277-0526. 
w L PCT GB Home Away DIV Streak 95 36 .725 49-12 46-24 22-8 Wool 78 52 .600 16.5 40-20 38-32 15-14 Won3 69 63 .523 26.5 37-28 32-35 I7-19 Lost 3 67 66 .504 29 37-28 30-38 I6-18 Lost I 50 81 .382 45 27-44 23-37 12-23 Won! WL PCT GB Home Away DIV Streak 73 58 .557 36-28 37-30 20-12 Won3 61 72 .459 13 24-42 37-30 I 8-18 Won 1 59 73 .447 14.5 28-37 31-36 16-20 Lost 1 58 73 .443 IS 33-32 25-41 15-16 Won2 51 8I .386 22.5 25-38 26-43 15-I8 Lost I WL PCT GB Home Away DIV Streak 74 60 .552 37-33 37-27 15-9 Lost 1 70 62 .530 3 4I-29 29-33 I2-12 Won 1 60 71 .458 12.5 35-33 25-38 8-16 Lost 2 60 73 .451 I3.5 35-35 25-38 I3-ll Lost 3 
The Observer/JoeMueller 
Away 4I-23 3I-30 29-33 18-44 20-44 Away 40-30 29-34 27-36 30-33 27-42 34-36 Away 41-32 34-35 30-41 29-40 26-47 
DIV I8-12 I4-16 17-I8 I5-I6 14-I6 DIV 24-14 I7-18 19-I7 17-24 17-20 I8-19 DIV 24-6 13-7 15-15 15-16 12-25 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. Deadbne fo~ nexr-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cems per characrer per day. mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classifieds for comem wirhour issuing refunds. 
(2) TICKETS FOR ARIZONA STATE I'M NOT A SCALPER PERSONAL AS TICKETS ARE FOR FAMILY! PLEASE 2 Michigan tickets 4 sale call 634·4 757 
NEED GA TICKETS! Michigan & Purdue gms call Tim at 634-4784 
Seeking ND/Mich tix. If you can help, please call 634-1 051 
Wanted: Mich vs. ND football tix. Call4-2261 
Wanted: ND vs. Mich. tix. Call4-2261. 
I need two tickets to any home game. 
TICKETS  PLEASE!!!! Call Heather, at 4-3682. Thanks!  
MICHIGAN 2 GAs for SALE 243·1626 leave offer  HELP! NEED (4) TICKETS TO MICHIGAN AND PURDUE &  

CALL 288-6272 
I Need 2 Michigan Tickets. Call Rob. x1943 
Need one Michigan ticket Will pay $$ or trade call Courtney@ 288-1423 
Need one Michigan Ticket. Please call Brett at 4-3307 
NEED 1 MICHIGAN GA CALL PAUL CHEN @ 234·7142 hi 
HI 
Mark-can't wait for our "date." Love, heta­her (ha) 
hey 215 Sorin· hope your sweatbox balck light freshman party is all you hoped for AND MORE And i may even make a guest appearance. 
when i turn 21, i am not going to work thurs­day nights anymore. i promise. 
welcome back derek. we missed the sexist comments (although you are more subdued than whence you left us) 
~ ; t" • I I { I I 

. r,' 
I I I I 'I
''' 
. I ''' ''. I'
• I 
'I' 
Friday, August 28, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NFL 
Another rowdy Cowboy gets in trouble with the law 

.~ • COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
''Whoa Nellie" kicks ;l''l1ff·::Jast season on ABC 
... Motiaccd Press three hours before the game and watch the bands practiceNEWYOHK and the stands fill with four 
Few announcers are identi· generations of fans. ;fi(:)d a~. ~l()sely with their sport "I know a lot of people scoff 
•as Keith Jackson is with col· at it and people always accuse · lege football. me of selling it and promoting .. The longtime ABC announc­it, but it is a very warm ti.lr, whose booming voice and friendly kind of fuzzy feeling 
'catch phrases like "Whoa you get in most places."Nellie" have been often imi­His unabashed promotion of tated but never matched, the sport and his pet phrases 
begins his final college foot· like "a hit as hard as black­ball season Monday night at jack pine" probably would not the Kickoff Classic. Jackson, fly with a new announcer. But who turns 70 in October, will they are vintage Jackson and retire after the Fiesta Bowl. are what define and shape his 
"When you are flipping telecasts. around the dial on a Saturday "When I did news, youafternoon and hear his voice, wouldn't know where I'm you sit up and listen because from,'' said Jackson, a native this game must be impor­of rural Georgia. "But when I 
tant," said Bob Griese, started doing Southern Jackson's partner for the last games, I decided it was a col­11 years at ABC. "If Keith orful language. I know the Jackson is doing this college words, the homilies, the reac· football game, this should be tions and how to make up the the one I watch." phrases. It sort ofjust grew."
Jackson joined ABC in 1962 Despite his love for the and has covered the big game. Jaekson belleV(lS the events -the NBA, the NFL. time is right to leave ABC, baseball and the Olympics -with a change in management 
and the obscure ones --like at the company and his 70th wrist wrestling on "Wide birthday less than two months World of Sports. But it is the away. He looks forward to 32 years of calling college ending the grind of the weekly games from small towns like travel and visiting places ho 
Tuscaloosa, Ala., and State has never gotten to see in College, Pa., that is Jackson's September, October and true love. lll!lJVember. 
Jackson, a walking history His career will end with the book on college football, first Bowl Championship
remembers the great coaches. Series championship game ­like Bear Bryant, the great a system Jackson bt~litwes is players, like Johnny Rodgers, flawed and should have four and the great games, like the teams. Between now and then 1979 Sugar BowL But he also he just wants to do what he remembers the little things, has done for 32 years, call the 
like the band director at Penn games without any extra State or the press box atten­attention. dantin Iowa City. "The basic function is still to 
"I like the ambiance that cover football games," he goes with college football. It is said. "The American public a wonderful festival." Jackson couldn't care about where I said; "I go to the stadium am going." 
-
.. 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
Despite pledges by owner .Jerry .Jones to clean up the Dallas Cowboys' public image and his millions spent to monitor playnr bnhavior, another one of his stars is under police investi­gation. 
This timn, it's All-Pro offensive lineman Larry Allen. 
Police am investigating a top­less dancer's aeeusation that Allen forend her to have sex by threat1ming her with a knife in the parking lot of the Kings' Cabaret dance dub. 
No eharges were liled against Allnn, who was in .Jacksonville, Fla., for an exhibition game Thursday night. 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies in conjunction with Gender Studies 
"It's really not appropriate for anyone to make a comment or a judgment, at this time," said Jones. "I don't think it's fair for anyone to jump to any conclu­sions." 
Allen had no comment. He is the fourth member of the Cowboys to be accused by women of sexual assault in less than two years, but no charges were ever liled against the other players. 
Wide receiver Michael Irvin is on probation because of drug possession. Last month, he was involved in a dorm altercation at training camp in which guard Everett Mciver was cut in the neck with scissors. 
Defensive tackle Leon Lett is baek on the team after missing 13 games under NFL suspension last year for substance abuse violations. 
Last summer, a Dallas County grand jury declined to indict Nate Newton after a Grand Prairie woman told police he raped her. In December 1996, a former topless dancer told police that wide receiver Michael Irvin threatened her with a gun while lineman Erik Williams and another man raped her. The accuser, Nina Shahravan, later recanted and pleaded guilty to perjury. 
In Allen's ease, a dancer told police he entered the club where she works around 4:10 p.m. Monday. 
The accuser told police that Allen ordered drinks and a table dance from her, then said he needed to talk to her so they went outside, got into his car and drove behind the club. 
She said Allen put his hand on a knife that was in the car's con­sole and forced her to have sex. 
"I think the investigation is progressing, but it's too early to say what the conclusion will be," Dallas police Sgt. Jim Chandler said. 

OJ MoeV from U 9:S 
Saturday 
OJ FONZ and 
Wal~ Marna 
Department of SpeciaJCollections, 102 Hesburgh Library 
A recepti6n WlJI'f.ollPJ%,~~e les,kMES,: ~~ are welcome. 
:\ :; :::··:;.--::-:::··--:: :::.:::.:.=.:.::::•., .. ,. . .... ·····.:::::=~· 
.=:::::.::::ii:·':;'::>::::---:.::::::; . 
····=·=:·::::::.;....... ·:·:·:·::::~·:=:·.:.:, ...:.. ,·•.• ·.~.:)l:~;:
·,,=.,= ... 
····:·:::::::;::;::::::::::::.:·:·:•.·.•,, 
;;::::;;:}< :::.::::··=·=·· For further infimnation call (2 !Y) 63!-561 0 or visit the Devers Web site at http://www.nd.edu/-dcvcrs 

''  ' ' '  ~ • t •  
'''  '.'  
page 14  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, August 28, 1998  

• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Wolveries go with experience at QB 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Lloyd Carr believes in trusting his gut. That's why Tom Brady will start at quarterback when Michigan opens at Notre Dame in a little over a week. 
"Much like Brian Griese, he 
He already has the arm. And 
he brings one thing to the 
table that Brady doesn't: 
Speed. "I've been surprised," Carr said. "Drew is even quicker on the move than I thought." 
So, why Brady? Why not go with the kid right now if he's that good? The answer is experience, mainly. 
If the Wolverines were opening at home against some soft and chewy cream puff. Carr would be greatly tempted. Nebraska, for example, is a 34 1/2-point favorite to wallop Louisiana Tech in the Cornhuskers' opener this week. 
But the Wolverines don't always open against cream puffs. Last year it was Colorado. This year Notre Dame. 
And there is almost no way Carr can bring himself to throw Henson into the fire at South Bend. That's just a 
little too far, a little 
FOR the EDUCATION aud RESEARCH COMMUNITY 
OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM. 
TIAA-CREF. 

Photo courtesey of Michigan Sports Information 
has paid his dues," Carr said Thursday. "Tom's a bright guy, he has a good arm and his team­mates look up to him. 
"I think he has the right stufl'." 
In almost the same breath, however, Carr had to admit that there is better stuff on ham.!. That would be highly touted freshman Drew Henson, who in just two weeks of practice has turned more than a few heads. 
"Drew has made excellent progress. He improves almost daily," Carr said. "He's a bright kid. Without question, he's the most talented quarterback I've ever been around. 
"He's going to play some this year. He's not just another quar­terback." 
Exactly what the coach means by "play some" remains to be seen. It could mean that Brady's job is secure. Maybe the Wolverines will bring Henson along slowly. 
But you never know. 
The one player almost left out of all these quarterback conver­sations is Scott Dreisbach. He is by far the Wolverines' most experienced; a fifth-year senior who started all 11 regular-sea­son games in 1996. 
By rights, the job should have gone back to Dreisbach in 1997. Instead, Carr got a feeling in his gut about Griese. When the sea­son opened, it was Griese at the throttle and he guided the Wolverines to a 12-0 season and their first national championship in 50 years. 
The difference now. of course. 
is the fact that Griese had been a 
backup to Dreisbach and saw 
considerable playing time when 
Dreisbach was hurt. Brady, on 
the other hand, has hardly 
played at all. 
In four years, Brady has been in just six games, two in 1996 and parts of four games last sea­son. His career statistics show Brady has completed 15 of 20 passes for 129 yards with one interception and no touchdowns. 
That means Henson would 
about match Brady's career 
numbers in just a single game. 
too fast, from 
Brighton High 
School. Haw talent 
and all. 
"Tom Brady's been here four years. Drew Henson has been here two weeks," Carr said. 
And if he comes away from South Bend with a victory over the Fighting Irish, it is a pretty good bet Brady will be set for the season. It was his ~ solid performance in a 27-3 i! victory over Colorado last ~ year that established Griese. ~ 
After that, Griese was the ~ man. And the coach knew "' 
1 
that trusting his gut was the ~ right thing to do. ~ 
There is no guarantee. But ~­that'S the thing about college '-! football that keeps men like ~ Carr going and going. ~ 
"I know as a coach, I've g, never been so excited in my life," Carr ~aid. 

When it comes to planning a comfort­able future, America's best and brightest turn to the expert: TIAA-CREF. With over $23.0 billion in assets under management, we're the world's largest retirement system, the nation's leader in customer satisfaction,<> and the overwhelm­ing choice of people in education, research, and related fields. 
Expertise You Can Count On For 80 years, TIAA-CREF has intro­duced intelligent solutions to America's long­term planning needs. We pioneered the portable pension, invented the variable annuity, and popularized the very concept of stock investing for retirement. In fact, we manage the largest stock account in the 
world (based on assets under management). 
Today, TIAA-CREF can help you achieve even more ofyour financial goals. From tax-deferred annuities and IRAs to mutual funds, you'll find the flexibility and choice you need, backed by a proven history of performance, remarkably low expenses, and peerless commitment to personal service. 
Find Out For Yourself 
To learn more about the world's pre­mier retirement organization, talk to one of our retirement planning experts at 1 800 842-2776. Or better still, speak to one ofyour colleagues. Find out why, when it comes to planning for tomorrow, great minds think alike. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org
. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 
0 DALBAR. Inc., 1997 D~fimll (,{mtrihutWn Et:caknu ltzting.~. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. For more complete information, includ­ing charges and expenses, call l 800 842-2733, extension 5509, for the prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest or send money. 8/98 
'CLASSES ARE BEING OFFERED IN THE EVENINGS THROUGHOUT THE SEMESTER BEGINNING AUGUST 31ST 
Introduction to Photoshop 4.0 (mac/win) 
Introduction to Powerpoint 97 (win) Search and Research the Internet (mac/win) Introduction to Microsoft Word 97 (win) Introduction to WordPerfect 8 (win) Useful Windows Resources at ND (win) Introduction to Microsoft Excel 97 (win) Introduction to ClarisWorks s.o (mac) Papers & Projects in Word 97 (win) Introduction to Microsoft Access 97 (win) Introduction to Microsoft Word 98 (mac) Introduction to Microsoft Excel 98 (mac) Intermediate Microsoft Access 97 (win) 
Increasing Your Net Worth (mac/win) Introduction to Microsoft Powerpoint 98 (mac) 
REGISTER FOR CLASSES ONLINE AT OUR WEBSITE: 
www.nd.edu/-sctp 
o•
o• 
''' ', '' J 
Friday, August 28, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NFL 
Manning tosses theColts their 2nd preseason win 

Associated Pross 
INI>IANAPOIJS 
Pnyton Manning, finishing the pn~sPason with his most produc­tivn gan111, passed for 172 yards and two long touchdowns to Marvin !Iarrison as the Indianapolis Colts held off the D11troit Lions 20-17 Thursday night. 
Manning, the No. I piek in the N Fl. draft, was 8-for-17 and rntirnd to tho sidnline after the sncond quarter as thn Coll'i (2-2) took a 17-10 load. 
The Lions ( 1-3) tied the game with a 22-yard pass fbnn rookie Charlin Batch to Cormane Crowell early in the fourth quar­ll~r. ;\ furnhl!! by velnran Frank Heid1, signnd earlier in the week, 
set up the winning 27 -yard field 
goal by the Colts' Mike 
Vanderjagt with 3:55 to go. 
Detroit's Jason Hanson missed 
a 56-yard field goal that would 
have tied the game again as time 
ran out. 
Manning's two touchdown passes, both in the first period, markfld the first time he had thrown for morn than one score in a game. 
This time, the Lions couldn't get to Manning or to his favorite .target, Harrison, who had four catches for 145 yards and got by his former Syracuse teammate, Kevin Abrams, for touchdown receptions of 76 and 40 yards. 
The first was on the first play of the game, when Manning threw from the Indianapolis 24 
~~ ® ©rulu®On© Sacred Heart Parish Univ·ersity of Notre Dame 
Offers RCIA with: 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 
and hit Harrison at the Lions 40. 
The third-year receiver outran 
the second-year Detroit corner­
back the rest of the way to com­
plete the Colts' longest play of 
the preseason and put 
Indianapolis up 7-0. 
A 22-yard run by Barry Sanders set up Scott Mitchell's 8­yard TD pass to IIerman Moore that tied the game midway through the quarter. 
Batch replaced Mitchell at quarterback after a 57-yard punt return by rookie Terry Fair. Manning's former teammate at Tennessee, midway through the second quarter. The Lions moved six plays to the Indianapolis 13, where Hanson kicked a 31-yard lield goal to cut the Indianapolis lead to 14-10. The Colts coun­tered with a 43-yard field goal by Vanderjagt with 40 seconds left lor a 17-10 lead at halftime. 
After Crowell's tying touch­down catch in the fourth quarter, the Lions had a chance to take the lead when Ryan Stewart intercepted a pass by backup Kelly Holcomb and returned it 19 yards to the Indianapolis 27. Reich, on his first play with the Lions, was hit by Emil Ekiyor and fumbled the ball back to the Colts. After the next Indianapolis punt, Reich fumbled again, and Ekiyor recovered at the Detroit 

24. Six plays later, Vanderjagt kicked the winning field goal. 
.....,..........,,....,.,..'"' IN THE RHODES AND MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIPS 
SnitiOO\IVSKI will have afinal meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on 
Tuesday., SeJitembet• I., l !)98 
7:00 p.ut. **129 DeBartolo** 

® 
BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIAL 

-
Welcome Back Students! 
Kick off the year right with a large 1 topping pizza for $5.99 If you think you can handle it-try our new 16" pizza (extra-large) 1 topping $7.99 
expires 9/4 

--­ ---­ 
t'  I''  • f I  'I' I I  • t' . ''  .' \''  ''  ''.  -~~­--~-­ 
page 16  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, August 28, 1998·  

• COllEGE SPORTS 
Probe grows as gambling ring comes full circle 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
A 24-year-old man admitted Thursday he participated in a gambling ring at Northwestern for at least three years and attempted to "scare" a Wildcats basketball player into paying off his gambling debt. 
Michael Stemberk, of North Riverside, pleaded guilty to perjury for lying to a grand jury about his involvement in the ring. Stemberk is the sixth defendant to plead guilty as a result of a federal probe into gambling at Northwestern, an investigation that uncovered evidence of fixed basketball games and now involves the 1994 Wildcats football team. 
Stemberk was not a student at Northwestern, but was a high school friend of Brian Ballarini, a Northwestern quarterback who admitted last week he ran a gambling ring helping individuals, including Northwestern athletes, place bets on college and professional games. 
In his guilty plea, Ballarini said he placed bets for people on Northwestern football games while he was a member of the team. 
Stemberk admitted Thursday that between 1992 and 1995 he participated in the gambling scheme with Ballarini. On at least two occasions, Ballarini shared "inside information" with Stemberk about the 1994 Northwestern football team, upon which Stemberk placed large bets through Ballarini, according to Stemberk's plea agree­ment. 
Stemberk said he lied about an episode in which he and Ballarini talked about collecting a gambling debt from former Wildcats basketball player Dion Lee. The diminutive Stemberk said he phoned the 6-foot 5-inch Lee to "scare" him into paying his debt of about $2,000. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Vogel said the phone call was recorded by the government, but he refused to reveal its contents, acknowledging only that an "implicit threat" was made. 
Prosecutors said they would dismiss a second perjury count in which Stemberk allegedly significantly understated the amount of his bets with Ballarini. Stemberk faces a prison term of up to 18 months. 
Stemberk has not agreed to cooperate in the government's ongoing investiga­tion but his attorney, Daniel Wolff, said Thursday he wanted to delay sentencing because "certain things may develop which might be to my client's benefit." Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Collins said the government would accept Stemberk's help if he was willing to give it. 
Ballarini, 25, of Chicago, is cooperat­ing with the investigation. 
former Wildcats basketball players Dewey Williams and Lee have pleaded guilty to attempting to fix three Northwestern basketball games in 1995. 
Former Notre Dame kicker Kevin Pendergast and Brian IFving of San Francisco, who was not a Northwestern student, also have pleaded guilty in the scheme. They acknowledged placing thousands of dollars in bets on Northwestern basketball games. 
Northwestern said it continues to cooperate with the U.S. attorney's office and the FBI in the investigation. 

AU. FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO l js4 (PG-13) 1:25,4ffi,711l,!tll ~MAGEIJDON (PG-13) 12:55,3:55,7:20,10:25 ~LADE (R) 1:35,2:10,4:20,5:20,7:35,8:00,10:20,10:35 DEAD MAN ON CAMPUS (R) 1:10,3:25,5:40,7:55,10:10 ~ALLOWEEN H20 (R) 1:45,4:00,7:00,9:30 1nOW STELLA GOT HER GROOVE (R) 1:50,4:40,7:30,10:15 ~1/Hl PRIVATE RYAN( R) 1:1ll,1:25,4:35,5:m, 7~5.8:10,9:15 ~MALL SOLDIERS (PG-13) 1:40, 4:15 SMOKE SIGNALS (PG-13) 1:00. 3:20, 5:40,8:00,10:20 ~NAKE EYES (R) 2:00,4:30, 7:10,9:40 HE MASK OF ZORRO IPG·13) 1:30,4:30, 7:35, 10:35 WRONGFULLY ACCUSED (PG·13) 1:05, 3:15,5:25,7:40, 
~:50 
*No passes 
MATUBA 
~ Japanese Restaurant ~ Authentic, Healthy Delicious, The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You're very special to Matuba. We would like to invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din­ing room and sush1 bar-taste our shrimp tam­pur, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon, teriyaki chicken, sushi, sashimi and vegetable sushi or manv other traditional Javanese dishes. 
I.J..nchSpecial-$6.95 lire'~-$14$ 
1 -Beef Negimaki 1 -T eriyaki Chicken 2 -Egg Rolls 1 -Tuna Sushi 2 -Fried Rice 1 · White Fish Sushi 4 pc -California Rolls 1 -Salmon Sushi 4 pc ·Cucumber Rolls 4 pc-Calrtomia Rolls 1 -Miso Soup 8 pc -Tuna Rolls 1 -.Salad 1 -Steam Rice plus Japanese 1 -Miso Soup Green Tea 1 -Salad May change weekly plus Japanese
Green Tea 
Lunch  Dinner  
Sushi(13 pieces)  $6.95  $8.95  
Sushi(14p"""'s  $7.95  $11.95  
Sushi veg. chd<en (12 pc)  $6.95  $8.95  
Sushinorawfish(13pc)  $12.95  $12.95  
Sushi (t6 pieces)  $12.95  $12.95  
Sushi Deluxe (21 pieces)  $16.95  $16.95  
Sushi & Sashimi canbo  $18.95  $18.95  

plus Miso Soup Lunch:11-2 Mon-Fri Dinner: 5-9 Mon-Thurs,S-10 Fri-Sat 251-0674 Fish-Beef-Chicken 
2930 E. McKinley Ave. South Bend IN 
John Ma Marshall's, Inc~ 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum. 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Attention Juniors! 
Pick up your Notre Dame Class Ring in the ring department of the Hammes Notre 
·­
Dame Bookstore "on the campus" start­ing on Wednesday, September 2nd. 
Hours Monday thru Friday, 9am to 7pm Saturday, 9am to 5pm Sunday, 11am to 5pm 
'I  
''  I I  ''  ''  
Friday, August 28, 1998  The Observer • SPORTS  page 17  

•NBA 
-
Continued lockout may foul out the regular season 
As•ociated Press 
NEWYOnK 
Tlw NBA. holding a consecu­tive games rneord that would make Cal Hipknn envious, looks ready to sacrifke thn streak. 
The league's perfeet record of nevnr having lost a game to labor strife -that's 35,001 in a row. or 13 112 times Hipken's total -went into serious peril this week when chances dimmed for a resumption of eollnctive bargaining talks before the scheduled opening of training camps. 
"At some point you have to elect to deal with the lt1sser of two evils, and I think we've concluded that to once again make a bad economic deal is even worse that what'll flow from losing games," deputy commissioner Russ Granik told The Associated Press, strongly indicating that the league­imposed lockout will last into the fall and perhaps the winter. 
In other words, tho NBA is prepared -some ~ould say planning -to sacrifice games in November and December in the hopes it will put pressure on players as they miss pay­checks, leading to a better col­lective bargaining agreement for the owners. 
"There are different types of lost games," Granik said, com­paring the NBA's labor woes to major league baseball and its disastrous strike of 1994, which started during the pennant race and forced the cancellation of the World Series. 
An arbitration hearing on whether owners should have to pay guaranteed contracts dur­ing the lockout is on a nine-day hiatus and isn't scheduled to end until Sept. 8. Post-hearing briefs must be filed by Sept. 15, and arbitrator John Feerick will then have 30 days to render his verdict. 
Two months of rhetoric, harsh words and allegations of delaying tactics haven't brought any progress. September will begin with the sides far apart on the key issue -an economic system that will slow down or 

WELCOMES YOU BACK TO SCHOOL 
KICKOFF THE 1998 SEASON WITH COACH DAVIE'S QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION FOR STUDENTS ONLY (student ID required to enter) 
MONDAY, AUGUST 31st 
7:00 -8:00 pm (EST) 
JOYCE CENTER (enter through gates 1 and 2) 
limit the growth of player salaries enough to make the owners happy. 
The owners have proposed several changes to the current operating system, asking for an eight-year deal. 
Proposals have included sev­eral different salary limitation mechanisms: A phase-in of a "hard" salary cap with almost no exceptions, a maximum salary of 30 percent of the cap (excepting players already over that threshold, but limiting their raises to 5 percent), a phase-out of the Bird exception that would include a grandfa­ther clause for current 10-year veterans, and an elimination of the $1 million salary cap excep­tion that each team can use every other year, regardless of whether they are over the salary cap, to sign an additional player. 
The owners had the right to toss out the old collective bar­gaining agreement if player salaries exceeded 51.8 percent of basketball-related income (BRI), and that number jumped to 57 percent in the 1997-98 season. 
The players offered to slow future cap growth if the BRI number hit 63 percent. then replaced that proposal with one that would shrink the current 20 percent limit on year-to-year raises. 
In addition, the players have asked that the $1 million excep­tion become a $2.5 exception available every season, and that a $3 million "lottery exception" be available every year to non­playoff teams. 
"Their proposal takes care of the all the players even better than they are today. That's what's wrong with it. Our 57 percent would go to 60 or 65 percent," Granik said, his voice rising and filling with disdain more than any other time dur­ing a 45-minute discussion. 
A deal would have to be in place by mid-October, at the absolute latest, to save the 82­game season that is scheduled to start Nov. 4. 
Even then. it would lead to a three-week scramble to open camps, sign players, make trades and sneak in an exhibi­tion game or two. 
Perhaps the only way the sea­son will start on time is if Feerick rules quickly and the sides meet in late September and early October. 
But Granik insisted the league won't give in just to save the perfect record, which the Elias Sports Bureau calculated at 35,001 consecutive games since 1946. 
Ahab as the embodiment of sin? Queequeg as archangel? 
~) 
Download Gene Curtsinger's 
Notes for Dorothy: The Splendor of Moby Dick, a novelist's chapterly account of Ishmael's inward and allegorical journey. 
-~)}, 
'~~~j 
WWW.1 stbooks.com 
S4.00 All Shows Before 6 pm :J ~ Saving Private Ryan R. 11:30, 12:30, 1:30, 3:00, 4:00, 
5:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00,1 0:20' The Avengers 12:10, 2:40, 5:00, 7:15, 9:45 How Stella Got Her Groove 2:00,4:50,7:40,10:10 
SnrureE~ 
12:20,2:50, 5:30,8:05, 10:25 Hallmveen H20 1:20,3:30, 5:40, 8:10, 10:40 Annageddon 12:50, 4:20,8:15 54 11 :40, 2:30, 4:45, 7:20, 9:40 
Zooo 
12:45,4:10,7:05, 9:55 Something About Mary 12:00,2:35, 5:10,7:45, 10:15 Ever After 
12:40,3:50, 6:45, 9:30 Dr. DolitUe 12:15,2:20,4:30,6:50,9:15 Lethal Weapon 4 
1:40, 5:05, 7:50, 10:30 
B~ 
1:15,4:15,7:10,9:50 Dead Man on Campus 11 :50, 2:10, 4:40, 7:30, 10:00 
PG-13 R R R PG-13 R PG-13 PG-13 PG-13 PG-13 R R R 
FREE REFILL 
on All Sizes of Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
S4.00 All Shows ~fore 6 pm 
why Do Fools Fallin Love  
1:45,4:30,7:15,9:50  
Something About Mary  R  
1:30, 4:15, 7:00, 9:40  
The Truman Show  PG  
9:00  
Madeline  PG  


Why do Fools Fall in Love  R  
2:00, 4:45, 7:20, 9:55  •  
Dance With Me  PG  
1:20,4:10, 7:00,9:40  
AirBud2  G  
2:10,4:30,6:50,9:00  
ParentTrap  PG  
1:30,4:20,7:10,9:50  
WrongfullyAccused  PG-13  
2:30, 5:00, 7:05, 9:25  
Return to Paradise  R  
2:10,4:40, 7:15,9:45  


,.. 
.... 
..
• I LU & -0 ¥ 
•,' 4 
~ I , t' 
r· I I''. '' 
Friday, August 28, 1998
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 
"We're looking to keep the ball mov­ing from the midfield up," said Reggie
M.Soccer 
McKnight, the fourth-leading scorer in 1997, which was his freshman year.
continued from page 20 
"It's an overall contribution from all [Andrew) Aris will be the 'go-to' men the players." to lead an attack from the midfield," Leading the Irish backfield will come said Berticelli. Fifth-year senior Scott from a defense headed by eo-captain Wells, playing in all 21 games last sea­
Phil Murphy, Dave Cutler and Steve son. and an now injury-free Ryan Cox Maio. with three-year starter Greg are also forces for the Irish forward Velho in goal as the final line of line. 
defense. The more offensive style of 
Freshman forward Shane Walton play should also give the defense a comes to Notre Dame as one of the top chance to create rather than defend. players in Southern California. His 
"[A more aggressive attack] allows athletic abilities quickly became evi­
us to take it easy," said sophomore dent to coach Berticelli and the team, 
defender Griffin Howard. "It makes giving him the spotlight last Friday the game more enjoyable and quicker­against the Buckeyes as he scored the paced." only Irish goal of the game. 
An more up-tempo game is what the Originating the attack will be the 
Irish will strive for with a well-bal­focus of the Irish midfield, headed by 
anced defensive and offensive game­team co-captain Matt .Johnson. Hoping plan . .Just as this year's squad will to serve as the starting line for a more look for many players to contribute prevalent attack, the midfield is com­stellar performances, the team will 
mitted to being more creative on the also need and offense and a defense to 
1998 NOTRE MEN'S SOCCER 
AUGUST 
21 OHIO STATE 28 DePAUL 
....atProvidence* at Boston College* WEST VIRGINIA*
PTEMBER 
'[a;31G EAST Tournament Quartertinals BIG EAST Semifinal BIG EAST Championship 
attack. 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 20 
half. Streiffer gave the Irish a 6­0 lead with a goal in the 55th minute. Then Shannon Boxx connected on a header from .Jen Grubb to extend the lead to 7-0. Gerardo added her second goal of the evening in the 67th minute and Streiffer rounded out the scoring for the Irish and completed a hat trick with a header in the 72nd minute. 
Goalies LaKeysha Beene and Elizabeth Wagner combined for the shutout of the Buckeyes, who had only three shots on goal all night. The Irish out shot the Buckeyes 38-6. 
"It's a really good start for us," said Makinen. "It gives us a 
..... good chance to see where we are at and I think we played well overall." 
SMC 
continued from page 20 
her sophomore year while studying abroad. The midfield­er will lead the offensive end with her power and speed. 
"She is a key central player because of her all-around skill," Sharp said. "Let's just say she has a very strong foot." 
A surprising plus for the Belles is the return of Liz Coley, who decided to come out for her senior year after studying abroad. Her impressive resum;:: includes play on Atlanta travel teams. 
be near perfect to net the wins. 
• SPORTS BRElFS 
Women's Tennis-Tryouts will be held on Sept. 9 for all inter­ested players, Call UzBarkerat 1-3730 for more information. 
Sports Officials -RecSports is looking for flag football, fast­pitch softball, baseball and soccer officials for the fall interhall season. Good ·pay &Ud flexible hours. ·Call DeMond Thomas Pr Jeff Walker at 1-3536 or 1-4437 for inore information. 
Sports Info ~ Get involved in the excitement of Notre Dame Athletics. The Sports Information Department always is looking for student assistants. For more information call 631-7516 or come to the informational meeting on Wed., Aug. 26 at 8:00 
p.m. in the Sports .Information Offic;e .on the second floor ofthe Joyce Center above Gate 2. · 
Men's Tennis Tryout Tournament:::-Sign-up at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. There will he a meeting at5p.m. on Sept. 10 at lkk. Please contact Mike Morgan at 1-4841 or 1-6929 with any ques­tions. 
Women's Rowing Informational Meeting -The first meeting for those interested in rowing is Monday at 4 p.m. in the South Dome of the Joyce ACC. No rowing experience is needed. Any questions calll-3071. · · 
The transfer of sophomore Bethel and the most challeng­Laura Paulen, a defender com­ing set of games in St. Louis. ing out of a Charleston, W.Va., "We need the win," Sharp school, will also boost the ros­said. ''I'm not going to have ter. them settle for anything less 
Besides the returning seniors, than their best intensity." 
, -.. 
~ 
• I
• .. • .. I • • -... , ,. • • 
.. 
, 
-
• • 

.. •. 
e I 
THE CATERING OFFICE HAS 
•
JOBS FOR YOU! 
...•
WE OFFER: *$5.95 HR PLUS GRATUITIES *FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES *BONUS FOR WORKING 
.# FOOTBALL LUNCHEONS 
CALL 631-5449 CATERING OFFICE NDH(STREET ENTRANCE 
COME ON BY!! 
Saint Mary's will rely on the reserves of four juniors, two sophomores and 11 freshmen to turn around last season's 7­13 record. 
In addition to Sharp's own recruiting efforts, the increased freshman enrollment has also provided a young solid core, Sharp said. 
If Saint Mary's can set the stage in its favor with a first win, the momentum may carry them through games against 
.~ 
. 

Fall Break in Washington, DC 
Special week long program for Saint Mary's and ND students 
Personally conducted tours including: 
Arlington Cemetery, Mount Vernon, FBI, Smithsonian Museums, Holocaust Museum, National Cathedral, Ford's Theatre, Kennedy Center, Bureau of Engraving, VIP tours of White House and Capitol 
Leave Saturday, October 17, 1998 Return Friday, October 23, 1998 
Price: $538 
Includes: 
•Travel 
by air to Washington, DC 

•Enjoy 
excellent accommodations (4 to a suite) 

•See 
a play at the Kennedy Center 

•Lots 
of time for sightseeing and shopping 

•No 
tests or credits-just a lot of fun!!! 


$150 deposit ensures your place Final payment due: September 1, 1998 
Questions? Contact Prof. Claude Renshaw 226 Madeleva Hall, SMC (219) 284-4750 

. -~~----.--­
.
'I 
• .' ., ','
I> I • ~ I 
Friday, August 28, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
l'in·cl ol' NaOI I .ill'. /Ill'II dt·<·idt·, hr ha' had I'IIIHil.!h of I hi' IH'II land amlwanlt·d to 1\'llltll had, to llu· n•al 11 orld ... 
FOXTROT 
DILBERT 
I BUILT A R.1NG WITH A IINY COMPUTE.R IN lT. 
DAN SULLIVAN 
HOW bo I GEit"o /llfYI? 
jusT fOLLOW IH£ 
Q?EfNBACK ROAD 
:ro /fiE ~/..DEN
C>OME. 
BILL AMEND 

SCOTT ADAMS 
,;
tT Ot\ILY 0[5PLAYS ONE 
NO
= 
C\-\ARACTER A.T A. TIME.. ! CHAT. I'M THE. NET! 
., ~ .. u 
DON'T 1"\t>.!(.E. 

fV\E COME OVER THERE. 
) 
54 Clipped 55 Act suggestively 56"--in Calico" 
(1946 song) 58 Mama bear, in 
Madrid 59 Prod 61 Fasten, in a way 64 The place 65 Identify (with) 66 Spread 67 Tossed 
DOWN 
1 Religious leader 2 Romantic vehicle, in song 3 Needs to roll 
over, perhaps 4 Blue Devils' grp. 5 Theater warning 6 Permeate 7Collar 
attachment 
a Screwball 20 Puts back 48 Legislative 57 Abrupt transition 9 Less ordinance
30 Scuzzy 60 Fresh 
time-consuming 49 Realized35 Vampire's 62A.C.L.U.
10 Bankbook abbr. 
undoing 51 Selling point concerns 
11 Hypothetical 36 Professional 53 Half a cone. in 63 Midwest city,physics particle musician geometry slangily
12 Raccoon relative 37 Changed the 13 Causing change course of 14 Publishing 39Comedian Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
employees Kaplan are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
23 Tip 40 Forgoes 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 47 Not shutting up 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-
... 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
-
Name ____________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City------------State ____ Zip_________ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Some mercenaries 10 Westernmost African capital 15 Crimped 1&Greece's Constantine II, for one 17 Stick in the oven? 18 Martin Pinz6n's command 19 Stray 20 Rate 21 Sanctioned 22 Beginnings 25Wander 26 Catcher's gear? 27 On-line V.I.P. 's 
29 Lovelorn's utterance 31 Shock 32 Make ends meet? 33 First name in architecture 34 Switch ups 35 More cracked 38 Very poor spirits? 40 Listening device 41 Short distance 43 Belgian resort town 44 Assad's land: Abbr. 45 Red letters? 46 Not up to snuff 50 Envelope feature 52 Layer 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Emma Samms, Daniel Stern, 
Ben Gazzara, Lou Piniella 
Happy Birthday: You'll tend to be too serious this year. Lighten up if you want to accomplish anything at all. You need to laugh a little more and learn to see the humor in things that just don't go your way. You will find life much easier if you can gt> with the flow and not try to stick to set schedules. A free-spirited attitude will get you far better results. Your numbers: 6, 14, 19, 23, 33,42 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't take advantage of your expense account. You will not impress your clients by being overly generous. The restrictions that result may be difficult for you to live with. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be disciplined enough to get your work done; however, you may find yourself daydreaming about your lover or an adventurous trip you've been contemplating. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let your emotions interfere with work efficiency. You are likely to have diffi­culties with colleagues if you get involved in any petty arguments. 000 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): You can meet potential new mates if you socialize with friends. Try to join groups of interest such as ballroom dancing classes or an organization that will help you network profes­sionally. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your lover may be irate if you have been flirta­tious with others or inattentive to his or her own needs. Comprorniae if you must and you'D avoid uncomfortable l't•rbal baltles 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): l'n•b­
lems with rt'latives and frir.. 
-viii come to the surface. You must Ill<• 
careful not to reveal secrets or get 
involved in gossip. Thmk before you 
act if you wish to al'oid discord 
0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Real estate investments haw the potential to be very prosperous. You can expert changes in your living arrangements. Secret activity is evident. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Ver­bal abuse will lead to carelessness. Try to channel your energy into physical work. You can make changes to your living quarters that should plt•ase family members. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Don't give out personal information 
that you don't want spread around. Someone you least expect may not have your best interest at heart. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your communication skills will win you points. You can persuade even the toughest opponents to think your way. You can move into a leadership position if you are determined to do so.OOOO 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Financial investments that deal with joint money can be extremely pros­perous. Partners may tn· to argue with you; however, you must stand your ground. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be too quick to voice your opinion Listen to others carefully. Someone may be trying to damoge your repu­tation. If you don't retaliate~iU .-naU thnnselws look bad. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~:::+::-fl!!ll ~'-+-'-+=:-l 
-:-i-:-:+=+=-t..-. '!~+=+:::-i RR-::-t.:::-+7+.:':­
......, ...., You're a serious little tyke. You view life with a stem eye .00 reluctant to accept thinas that you don't like. You have a nund of your -:w you an!n't likely to let anyone pu.h you into something that you:::~\ ~arr: t..u. You're ~ =~ g,>-getteT who will strivt' to do thmgs your own 
_,_ 
.,j.:#t:~:·~-~!~1~::-::..· ..·:;:;~:. 
The Big Lebowski-The tilm "The Big Lobowski" Will be showing at the Annenberg Auditorium at the SniteMuseum of Art on Saturday. There is a small price for admission. 
Drive~in on the Quad-The movies "Scream" and "Swingers" will be playing outside on the big screen on North Quad Saturday at dusk. Free popcorn and sodas to the early birds. 
Admission only to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with student ID. 
''''Auditions for "Secret Love," a restoration -romance by John Dryden, will be held today at 7:30 p.m. on Saint Mary's campus in16 Hegina Hall. Callbacks will be held on Friday, August 28 at the same location, and the play wlll be directed by Katie Sullivan. For more information, call the Saint Mary's College department of communication, dance and theatre at 219-284­
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
-------------~~--~~­
----~~ 
I' • . I ·C~ 
I' 
. '' '' . 


• No. 1 draft pick • Even nation champi­
..,.._ 
Peyton Manning lives 
ons have problems . up to the hype in 
Michigan head coach 
I>() l·l ~·JHS,
.. 
Indianapolis. 
Lloyd Carr solves
~ ~ L 
another preseason quar­p.l5 terback controversy. 
THf p.14
{
Friday, August 28, 1998 page 20 

MEN'S SOCCER 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Defender Steve Maio and the rest of the backfield look to jumpstart a refocused Irish offense. 
Charged attack to complement Irish D 
·J£y ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sports Writer 
This year's Irish team will depend on the same forte that gave them their second-straight appearance in the Big East Tournament last season ­defense. Although the defense allowed just nine goals in 11 Big East conference games, it was only able to give the Irish a 10-9-2 record. For a squad relying on the same strength that barely captured them a winning season last year, this team is excited to get out on the field. 
The difference is that although their strength again lies with the defense, the 1998 men's soccer team has devel­oped an offense good enough to fall back on -or rather, to run to Nthe net with. 
"This year's team is more creative and focused with goal 
tll SAlt« MMY's Socca 
scoring," head coach Mike Berticelli said. "But this team is still concentrated on its defense." 
The Irish hope that these ingredients are part of the recipe for success. The team previewed this blend last Friday in its first exhibition match against Ohio State. Although the Buckeyes won the game 2-1, an offensively refo­cused squad came out in the . second half to outshoot Ohio State 10-5. 
Finishing scoring drives with goals will make the difference as the team readies for the sea­son opener, a home match against Valparaiso next Tuesday. With the loss of lead­ing scorer Ryan Turner, this year's squad will look for a number of players to finish the scoring drives. 
"[Ben] Bocklage and 
seeM. SOCCER I page 18 
WOMEN's SOCCER 
Aggressive play nets first win 
Irish dominates OSU in exhibition matchup with 9-0 shutout 
By M. BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The second-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team started the 1998 season on the right foot, defeating Ohio State 9-0 on Alumni Field last night. 
Although it was just a preseason game. the team's solid performance set the tone for the regu­lar season which gets underway Sept. 1 at Michigan State. 
"It was a real confidence booster to come out and play well in our first game," said senior for­ward Monica Gerardo. "We got a chance to test things out and it felt good to play against someone other than ourselves." 
The Irish looked dominant all night and jumped out to a 5-0 lead at the half. 
"We were excited to play and came out with a lot of intensity in the first half," said Gerardo, who had two goals on the night. "I think we looked really good, but there is always room for improve­ment." 
Anne Makinen started the barrage of Irish goals as she put one passed Ohio State goalkeeper Amber Barnes in the sixth minute. Less than a minute later, Makinen found the net again to give the Irish a 2-0 advantage. But the sensational sophomore wasn't done yet; she completed the hat trick with her third goal in the 13th minute. 
"The girl is just amazing," said Gerardo of Makinen. "She played awesome for us today and will be a key player for us all season. She's one of those players that helps the rest of the team ele­vate their game." 
"I think coach wants me to take on a bigger role this year and be a leader," Makinen said, "and I hope I can do that on and o!Tthe field." 
Jenny Streifl'er and Gerardo each added a goal to round out the first half scoring for the Irish. 
It was Notre Dame's first half defense, however, that was just as impressive as their high-powered oll'ense. The Irish didn't allow a single shot on goal during the first half and controlled the ball extremely well. 
"Our defense did a great job today," Gerardo said. "We have a very potent offense, but good scoring opportunities start with great defense." 
The Irish continued to pour it on in the second 

The Observer/John Daily Foward Monica Gerardo, who scored 10 goals last season, gets right back in the swing of things with two goals against OSU last night. 
Belles sqaud looks to reverse first game jitters 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The first game of the season is often a curse for the Saint Mary's soccer team. 
For the past three seasons, the Belles have dropped the inaugural contest and set a disap­pointing tone for the rest of the season. 
This year, however, the team is set to shatter the first game spells in its season opener Wednesday at home against Illinois Wesleyan. 
"It's a very important game," said head coach Robert Sharp. "It's going to set the tone for the rest of the season." 
A favorable mood could easily be set with the assistance of senior team captains, Monica Cernanec, midfielder Katy Barger and Jo Wagner. 
Wagner, the Belles goalie, will be one of the 
r---------~!!'!!!11----=!!"!"'--------~ 
8SOCCER SC E 

,9/8 BETHEL COLLEGE 9/12 at Washington University 9/13 at Maryville University 9/16 KALAMAZOO COLLEGE 9/19 ANDERSON UNIVERSITY 9/24 FRANKLIN COLLEGE 9/27 at U. of Wisconsin-White 9/30 MANCHESTER COLLEGE 10/3 at Adrian College 10/7 at Albion C~./10/10 OLIVET COLLEGE 10/13 at Calvin College 10/17 ALMA COLLEGE 10/19 at Rockford College 10/21 HOPE COLLEGE 10/24 at Defiance College 10127
· League Play
10/30 10/30 at Goshen College 
TheObserver/JoeMueller 
strongest of the troops. Last year's captain and· team MVP, Wagner has not always had the neces­sary defensive backup. 
"She's had a tough three years," Sharp said. "As a goalie, she has the experience to help us put together a good season. She just has not had the strong defense behind her." 
Defender Cernanec may help provide the missing muscle. 
A self-described natural leader, Cernanec is one of the few Belles to stick with the team for the entirety of her college career. Her seniority has also helped her nestle into the mind of her coach. 
''I'm learning how he thinks and I think that helps a lot," said Cernanec, one of five seniors. Barger has been a starter for two years, missing 
see SMC I page 18 
~----------------------------------~~==~==~ 
~·p'·o·· D"'J'·€ 

vs Michigan vs Valparaiso
.3 .·~. a :J 
September 5, 2:30p.m. September I, 7:30p.m. Cross Country 
vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler at Michigan State at Valparaiso September I2, II a.m. 
AT4 
Gl • t.Jc··",E··.. September I, 4 p.m. September I, 7 p.m. 
"" U\1~~~-... ,_,_ '· .... ·· 


