
--~· 
Tuesday, January 27, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 78 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rita pleads guilty to IDisdeDieanor 
Decision ends four-year legal.controversy about 
IN MEMORIAM 

death ofNotre Dame student 
mara fox 

ByMATTHEWLOUGHRAN prosecutor, Mr. [Mike] Barnes, said on it stands on the side of Douglas Associate News Editor in the fall that this would go to trial. Road at the site of the accident, 
.'Mara was one of the, best

And now, for whatever reason, he reminding people of Fox's death. 
people I ever knew. ' 

John Rita, the Notre Dame Law has decided not to prosecute him." Rita was charged with two felony 
·]EN RAMIREZ, Fox's ROOMMATE

graduate accused of killing then According to witnesses, Fox and counts in the accident, but was Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox four other Notre Dame students allowed to finish his law school 
KEY DATES IN RITA CASE

with his car in the early morning were walking down Douglas Road classes at home and graduate with a hours of Nov. 13, 1993, will plead on their way home from Macri's Deli degree from Notre Dame's Law guilty on Feb. 6 to a misdemeanor on Grape Road in Mishawaka after School. charge similar to his original felony midnight. The group had waited for Fox's death had a profound charge of leaving the scene of a fatal a cab, but gave up and decided to impact on those around her. "[She] accident. make the trip home down the unlit was one of the best people I ever 
After deliberating for nine hours, a road. knew," Jennifer Ramirez, one of jury acquitted Rita in 1994 of caus­At just about 1 a.m., before the Fox's roommates, said before grad­ing Fox's death by driving while group reached the intersection of uation last year. "When we go out ... 
Nov. 9, 1994: 
Rita acquitted ofcausing Fox's death. Mistrial is 
intoxicated. Judge William Albright, Douglas and South Bend Avenue, a it feels like someone was left 
who heard the case, granted a mis­car hit Fox head-on. It then pulled behind." 
declared on charge of
trial on the second felony charge away from the scene and continued In November 1994, Lyons Hall 
leaving the scene. 
because of a deadlocked jury. on towards Mishawaka. instituted the "Mara Fox Fun Run," 
Jan. 30, 1998:
"I feel really bad for the family [of Three hours later, police arrested an annual event that raises money 
After more than three years 
Fox! and everybody who has waited Rita in his apartment. Fox was for a sophomore student to study 
of appeals and delays, it is for three years in this process," said declared dead upon arriving to the abroad in Spain. Fox had planned 
announced that Rita will plead guilty w a
Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of hospital at 1:22 a.m. 

misdemeanor charge. 
Lyons Hall where Fox lived. "The To this day, a sign with a wreath see FOX/ page 4 

~----------------------------------~ 
'Late Night' generates $7,000 
S
tudents enjoy a game broomball as part of Late Night Olymr:>ics. The event, held last Friday at the ·.. 
ACC, attracted 1,500 stu­
dents. Proceeds go to the Saint Joseph County chapter 

of the Special Olympics. The Observer/JoJo Stark 
By KRISTI KUTSCH raised for the St. Joseph County was a wide variety of events," said Assistant News Editor chapter of the Special Olympics. Katie Boyle, a freshman who par­The money will be used by the ticipated in the inner tube water 
They came, they played and they Special Olympics to help fund their polo event. won. basketball program. New uniforms "It was a lot of fun for a good 
The team composed of Sorin and will be bought and the Late Night cause, plus it helped create dorm Walsh halls was the overall winner Olympics donation will also facili­spirit," said O'Leary. of the twelfth annual Late Night tate entry fees and trav-Olympics. el costs for Special .------------------------------------. 
The team accumulated 2017 Olympics basketball 12th AIIUAL points by participating in last 
Wednesday's Miss-A-Meal plan, to~~nea':~nt~he unique LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS winning different events, entering events of the evening RESULTS teams in all events and buying t­was a basketball game shirts at the event. 
that occurred at 9 p.m., 
.• Sorin/Walsh 
1

The other top teams were: when a Special Olympic ()'Neill/McGlinn with 1642 points, team challenged a team , . 2017 pointsWelsh/Keough with 1587 points, 
of Notre Dame rectors. 2. o·Neiii/McGiinn
Zahrn!Farley with 1530 points and The result was a Siegfried/ Pasquerilla West with blowout by the Special 1642 points1473. Olympian team. ·. h/W 1 h 
Kara O'Leary. RecServices coor­At one point in the ·. 9 e S dinator, estimated that over 1500 game, a member of the 1587 points students participated in the event. 
Special Olympics team 4. Zahm/Farley
"This is the most participation had scored more points we can remember in a while," than the entire 1530 points O'Leary said. "There was quite a 
rector/rcctress team 5. Siegfried/PW
surge between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m." combined. The results of the all-night "The event was really 1473 points events show that over 
$7,000 was organized and there L_______________________~Th~e~~~~~~ 
Tlle Observer: 
names new 
editor-in-cllief 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Assoc:iate News Editor 
With experience in both the .news and pro­duction departments of The Observer. Heather Cocks was elected editor-in-chi~f for the 1998~99 year by a vote of the news~ paper's General Board 
r--_.,.,~ last night. 
Cocks, a junior from Houston, lives in Lewis HalL She is an American studies major in the College of Arts and Letters and plans to pur­sue a career as a· reporter ami eventual editor of a major newspaper.. . •.·. . . 
"The Observer has been a big part of tnY life for the past three years, and I'm.hon­ored to have the opportunity to complett' my last year as editor-in-chief," Cocks said...It will be challenging, but I have a lot of ideas and I think we'll have a really good time up here in the coming year.,. 
Cocks has been a member of The Observer staff since August of her freshman year, when she served as a news writer, copy edi­tor, and assistant news editor. 
As a sophomore, she worked a~n associ­ate news editor. production manager. and later as news editor, the position she cur­rently holds. 
"The news staff has done a lot this past year to improve the quality of our pages," Cocks· said. "Now, fm looking forward to working with the new department editors so that the overall product improves even more." 
In addition to her campus experience in journalism, Cocks has written for the Calgary Herald in Calgary, Alberta, and interned for Bloomberg Business News, an international financial wire service. She believes her experience as an intern has expanded her vision for the future of The Observer. 
'Td like to see The Observer further the capability of its Web site by adding more 
see COCKS/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Nonsense 
When it comes to Dave Freddoso abortion, there are only Senior StaffReporter two sides. Everyone who falls in the middle has failed to consider the issue thoughtfully. 
As an example, I present a recent Inside Column. In this same space, another columnist recently wrote that it's too late to reverse Roe 
v. Wade. She added that it is impossible to leg­islate morality, and implicitly claimed to repre­sent the other pro-life students traveling to Washington to protest the 25th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. Pro-lifers, she alleged, do not want to outlaw abortion, but only to convince women to make the right choice. 
This is complete nonsense, though perhaps well-intentioned nonsoose. If you think you have a coherent middle of the road position on abortion, like this other columnist did, read on and you will see that you do not. 
First, abortion can only be wrong if it is the 
taking of a human life -the removal of a 
human soul from its bodily matter. 
Otherwise, there is no reason to be a squea­
mish moralist about it: you should have no sec­
ond thoughts about going out and getting one 
yourselfjust for fun next time you have the 
chance. And why not? By your own admission, 
you would just be removing a mass of parasitic 
tissue from your insides. 
If this is true, then there is no reason for 
women who get abortions to feel any emotional 
or psychological distress afterward. There is 
nothing traumatic about getting a tumor 
removed, is there? 
But if you really believe that abortion ends a 
human life, then you believe that it is murder. 
It is not self-defense. There is no situation in 
which a direct abortion is necessary to save the 
life of the mother. Other necessary procedu_res 
may, as an unintended effect, kill the child in 
utero. But the only outcomes of direct abortion, 
as science has demonstrated for us, are small 
dead bodies and a greater risk of breast cancer 
for the mother. 
So abortion cannot just be "partly bad": it's 
either just fine, or it's just plain murder. And 
when it comes to murder, our society has no 
qualms about legislating morality. We do not 
say, I'd never do it myself, but I can't impose 
my morality on others. No, we outlaw it. 
In summary, if you would have even a single 
moral scruple about getting an abortion your­
self, you are either in favor ofoutlawing abor­
tion or you are living in denial. There is no 
middle ground to be found on this issue. Trust 
me, smarter people than you and I have tried 
and failed. 
Now, if you haven't guessed, I am pro-life. 
Aside from the obvious-though correct-
argument from authority, here is one more 
reason why I think I am right. 
We are, some say, unsure as to whether the 
fetu.s i!' a human being._Th!s leaves us.with two 
chmces o~ what to do with 1.t:. we can mt~e~ (1} 
unrefle~tlvely assur:ne that It.s_not.and kill It or 
{2) cautiously refram from killmg It as long as 
t . 
we are uncer am.
Simple comm.on sense recommends (2}: if 
one is unsure in a life-or-death situation such 
as this, one ought to err on the side of caution 
rather than on the side of unnecessary reck­
lessness. 
Nonetheless, right now we are doing (1}, 
which makes about as much sense as walking 
into a room and firing a gun in random direc­
tions while blindfolded. 
This should be convincing especially for 
those who believe in the human soul. If indeed 
the physical sciences cannot give us certainty 
about the presence of a human soul, prohibi­
tion should become our policy immediately and 
indefinit~­
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Sarah Hiltz  Andrea Jordan  
Anne Hosinski  Graphics  
Colleen McCarthy  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Betsy Baker  Tara Grieshop  
Mike Day  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Meg Kroener  
Eddie and Spence  

The Ob..-rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Testimony ends in professor's sexual harassment hearing 
AMES, Iowa and she felt a part of Simonson's 
Testimony ended Friday at the body 'penetrating' her, although Michael Simonson administrative she wasn't sure what part it was. sexual harassment hearing with When asked by the prosecution, three women saying they received Mowatt said she now believes she unwanted sexual advances on sepa-was raped by Simonson, although rate occasions from the Iowa State she has never pressed charges professor. against him. 
One of the prosecution's witness-She said the only person she told es, Patricia Mowatt, a self-employed L...---------------------' about the incident was Hargrave, 
photographer from Cedar Falls, told the court she was raped by Simonson in 1989 while they shared a hot tub together. 
Simonson, professor of curriculum and instruction in the College of Education, is accused of violating university policy, creating a hostile environment and offensive conduct. 
Mowatt gave her testimony over the telephone. 
She said she was invited by Connie Hargrave, professor of curriculum and instruction and an ISU alumna, 
to the home of Dr. Anne Thompson, professor of curriculum and instruc­tion, in Cedar Falls. Hargrave was house-sitting for Thompson while she was out of town. 
Mowatt, Simonson and several other women were using a hot tub in the home. 
Mowatt said she was sitting across from Simonson in the tub when he pulled her towards him and started kissing her. 
She said Simonson pulled at the bottom of her one-piece swimsuit, who Mowatt said "didn't seem to be too surprised." 
The incident Mowatt described is similar to the earlier testimony of Mindy Gallagher, graduate student in curriculum and instruction, who said Simonson put his hand down her boxer shorts while they were in a hot tub at his home. 
Simonson, who on Thursday testi­fied he has never touched a woman inappropriately, was called to the stand once again to res pond to Mowatt's testimony. 

• UNIVERSITY Of ILliNOIS Clinton will give speech to students 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
President Bill Clinton will be making a stop in 
Champaign-Urbana and students will have the opportu­
nity to see and hear him speak. "[The president] has cho­
sen the University of Illinois to highlight his commitment 
to education," a university spokesman said. What Clinton 
will talk about is uncertain, but associate chancellor fo·r 
public affairs Bill Murphy said that the president might 
choose a theme from Tuesday's State of the Union 
address and expound upon it. "[We expect] the president 
will be amplifying the message of education from the 
State of the Union address," chancellor Michael Aiken 
said. "There is no setting better than this university." 
Three-fourths of the 10,000 to 12,000 tickets available 
for the event have been reserved for the University, 
Murphy said. The free event is first come, first serve. 
Tickets for the event will be available in blocks of up to 
two at various locations throughout the city and campus 
community. 

• UNIVERSITY OF UTAH ACLU checks into database misuse 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 
The American Civil Liberties Union of Utah is looking 
into alleged student-record database misuse at the University of Utah. After reviewing complaints from _University of Utah students and staff, Carol Gnade, exec­utive director of the Utah ACLU, has found the University academic database "may be being used for purposes for which it was not intended." Of the complaints the ACLU 
. . t" t" th t " · " d' t
IS mves Iga mg, e mos egregwus, accor mg o 
G d f'l d b f h B d · ·1 
na e, was. I e y res_ man ra_n on Wmn, a Dai y Utah Chromcle sports wnter who, m the Oct. 13, 1997 issue of the Chronicle, offended parks, recreation and tourism chair professors Gary Ellis and John Crossley, undergraduate advisor in the same department. In his column, Winn complained about the "fair-weather fans of 
• WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY 
Heroin causes man's death 
PULLMAN, Wash. 
The man found unconscious inside WSU's Gannon Hall 

two weeks ago died of a morphine overdose. Nineteen-year­
old Baron Godwin was pronounced dead Jan. 11 at Pullman 
Memorial Hospital. The death was ruled accidental. An 
autopsy revealed high levels of morphine were found in 
Godwin's system. Whitman County coroner said the death 
was the result of heroin. This is the first death attributed to 
heroin to occur in Whitman County. WSU Police said 
Godwin came to Pullman to visit Andrew Longman, a 
Gannon Hall resident. Longman is unwilling to discuss the 
death of his friend. ''I'm not ready to talk. There's still a lot 
going on," he said. Godwin and Longman attended a party 
off-campus. Later, he and Longman returned to Gannon 
where Godwin collapsed on the first floor of the residence 
hall. Godwin had a history of drug abuse -Godwin recently 
left a drug rehabilitation center in Kennewick. Police have 
not determined whether Godwin obtained the drugs in 
Pullman or brought the substance with him. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA Student to run for Legislature seat 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 

Tom Gromacki is passionate about two things -politics and the Green Bay Packers. The Wisconsin native and College of Liberal Arts junior announced his campaign for the Legislature last week, but took time out from his politi­cal game plan on Sunday night to root for his home team in the Super Bowl. Like the Packers, this is Gromacki's second consecutive time in the big game. In 1996, he won the Republican endorsement but lost to incumbent Rep. Phyllis Kahn, DFL-Minneapolis, in the general election. Before Gromacki can face Kahn for a rematch in district 59B, which includes most of the Minneapolis campus, he must win the primary against second-year law student Robert Fowler at the Republican caucus March 3. Gromacki is run­ning again on a traditional conservative platform. He oppos­es abortion, places emphasis on family issues and backs fis­
the Tampa Bay Buccanners." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~

..t·"'~-,..............................................·.--H,,,: 
L 
Tuesday  u  36 31  
Wednesdayd  44 31  
Thursday  Q .·=·. ·=··  36 32  
Friday:~  U+.::=·-::=)  34 20  

Saturday /\:5} 31 22 
~.....5'/\f'-""'-....\.jr "-:..(" • • 
4-~-~e~~ (f ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V~a Associated Preu GraphicsNet 

cally responsible legislation. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 27. 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1998 AccuWeather, tnc, 

Prsssute 
H L ~'~'~ &:;J ~ 0 . 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS R,A,IN T-STORMS FLURRIES 
Anchorage  22  14  las Vegas  65  
Boston  32  18  Milwaukee  35  
Chicago  35  26  Orlando  69  
Denver  56  31  Philadelphia 41  
Honolulu  83  64  Phoenix  75  

(ZJ 8 {) ~ cC) 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
I 
42 St.louis 42 31 26 San Diego 66 51 60 Seattle 48 41 31 Toledo 37 29 49 Wichita 52 28 

..........~..--~........................~--~--~..~~~------~~--~-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, January 27, 1998 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Program visits campuses for national competition 
By FINN PRESSLY News Writer 
While January usually marks the end of bowl game action, a bowl game season of a different sort is just getting underway at Notre Dame. 
Colleges and universities across North America are preparing their teams for com­petition in the 1998 College Bowl season. 
The College Bowl is essential­ly "an academic quiz game, based on quick recall," accord­ing to Peter Lombardo, who oversees the College Bowl pro­gram at Notre Dame. 
"Questions are generally taken from academic subjects, from English and history to math and science, with some sports and pop culture, as well," he continued. 
Notre Dame has been a par­ticipant in College Bowl since the program's inception as a radio show in 1953. In 1959, the show moved to television, where it was broadcasted weekly until 1970. 
In 1977. the College Bowl program was revived under the auspices of the Association of the College Unions International. Since then, the tournaments have been held live at college campuses across the country. 
There are three levels in the ColJege Bowl tournament lad­der. The first level, which is the campus level. is currently in progress at Notre Dame. This level is open to all students, including graduate students. 
The purpose of the campus tournaments is to select the four players who will represent Notre Dame in the next step of competition which is the regional level. This year's regional tournament, which is arranged in a round-robin for­mat, will be hosted by Valparaiso University from Feb. 20-22. 
During regional action, Notre Dame usually faces six to eight opponents. The winner of the regional tournament will then move on to the College Bowl National Championship Tournament. The winners of each of the 15 regional tourna­ments, plus one wild-card team selected at random from among those schools that placed second, will compete for the national title. 
More than 300 colleges and universities are expected to submit teams this year. 
Each team is comprised of four students, plus one or two alternates. The next campus tournament will take place on 
Saturday,  Jan. 31, at  the  
Center  for  Continuing  
Education.  


By SHANNON GRADY News Writer 
"My name is Ann duCille and 
I'm white." 
Those in attendance at the 
Hesburgh Auditorium last 
night chuckled at this com­
ment as it was clear to all that 
duCille was indeed an African­
American woman. But duCille 
used this statement to spark a 
lecture that a large and vocal 
audience enjoyed. 
The thrust of her talk cen­tered around the belief that America's race relation prob­lems are more easily found in innocent, casual encounters than in the race crimes seen on the evening news. She explained that most Americans live in a state of "periracism": they live by and around racism, but do not believe they are racist. She believes this masks and denies racism. 
DuCille used a personal experience to demonstrate this point. When duCille moved to her current home in a predominantly white com­munity, she found unexpected help at a local grocery store. A white woman gave duCille her cart, explaining that "in this supermarket you have to get your cart outside before you enter." 
Searching for a newspaper, duCille found this display of kindness sweet but unneces­sary. 
The white woman, in her efforts to place duCille at ease, made her racism more evi­dent. 
"The only thing that separat­ed me from anyone else there was my skin color," duCille explained. 

"This is typical of what racism has become," duCille continued. 
"The kind cloaked in kind­ness and tolerance is more dangerous because it forms a culture of 'I'm not a racist' self-satisfaction." 
DuCille also showed how current culture reflects the racism inherent in American society. She used recent movies such as "The Ghosts of Mississippi," "Dangerous Minds," and "A Time to Kill," as well as the classic Shirley Temple movie "The Little Rebel" to show how blacks are continually viewed as inferior in our culture. 
Ann duCille is a professor of American and African­American literature at the University of California at San Diego. Her most recent book, "Skin Trade," is a collection of essays duCille wrote for popu­lar and scholarly journals on how race, gender, and money interact in American life. The lecture, "Place and Dis-Place: 'Periracism · and the Geographies of Identity," was part of the Notre Dame English department's Ward­Phillips series on "Alternative American Geographies of 'Race', Ethnicity, and Nation." 




Open for luaida everyday 
Lunch Speciar .. ·,: Sma111 topping .2 -ca11.~ oJ Coca~Cola pro·dtlt(;~l:.. ::. ·-:~ ·... _, -:> · · · .·-.: ·:,.:~s-· :.~9·;._9;;.,.. --· · -. ·\·'·..~ 
.. ~,· . • ~ ...!..··· l -'II! _. i( ;. 
~-_:.. ~· ·.:'.:. ~ ··'<' ··: ~, ::.:_··., ~t}~ ~~r•r~ ·-, ,)-... · · 
Drive-In and Delivery Visa/Mastercard Accepted 

. . . -~-· 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
her mother is so upset," Beatty said. "She called me the other

Tobacco foes criticize deal Fox 
day and is just beside herself. 
Stewardess with cancer leads struggle 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Opponents of a landmark $349 million settlement on second­hand smoke said Monday that the deal benefits the tobacco industry and defense attorneys more than the 60,000 flight attendants who are suing. 
The proposed settlement before Circuit Judge Robert Kaye calls for the creation of a $300 million medical research founda­tion and payment of $49 million in legal fees and expenses. 
"They got less than nothing," said attorney Ben Barnow, rep­resenting an objecting flight attendant. "This settlement is a bad thing and they know it." 
An inch-thick file of letters from attendants, scholars and lawmakers support the agree­ment. 
Lead plaintiff Norma Broi" made her thoughts clear on the settlement when she jumped up at the end of the hearing and said: "On behalf of all the flight attendants, I applaud." 
Ms. Broin, an American Airlines attendant for 21 years, developed lung cancer after being raised in a nonsmoking, non drinking family. She was the only flight attendant allowed to testify. 
Her landmark case generated tobacco's first class-action and first secondhand-smoke trial. Attendants charged that ciga­rette smoke in aircraft cabins caused lung cancer, other lung foundation is being trumpeted as diseases and an assortment of an enormous benefit," Morrison other illnesses before smoking told the judge. "To society, per­was banned on domestic flights haps, but not the flight atten­in 1990. dants." 

Kaye should decide on whether Rosenblatt painted the objec­to approve the settlement or ask tors as opportunists misrepre­for revisions within two weeks, a senting the settlement. court spokesman said. The "In six years, not one of them tobacco industry has said it will ever showed their face, never not consider modifications. offered any help to one flight 
Ms.  Broin's  attendant," he  
attorneys,  said.  
Stanley  and  The  settle­ 
S u s a n Rosenblatt,  'THEY GOT LFSS THAN  ment lets attendants  
were forced to  NOTHING. THIS SET- pursue individ­ 
defend the $49  TLEMENT IS A BAD THING  ual lawsuits for  
million fee won by their small  AND THEY KNOW IT.'  compensatory damages.  

firm. 
One of the objectors was Ralph Nader's Public Citizen group. which claimed the deal violated numer­ous tenants of class action law by not providing any money to the plaintiffs. 
Its attorney, Alan Morrison, said the agreement gives the tobacco industry "an enormous get-out-of-jail-free card." 
"What is it going to do? We don't know how the money is going to be allocated ... yet this 
Cocks 
continued from page 1 
interactive features for its users," Cocks explained. 
"At the same time, I'd also like to improve upon the quali­ty of the print editions content and design." 
Cocks and her older sister, 
HomoSexuality 
& 
the Politics of Science 
"On the one hand we must decide how best to counter the tactics ofintimidation and refute the false claims ofa group that operates in the hostile mode ofraw, power politics. On the other hand we must retain the profound co1npassion and fellow-feeling toward individual ho1nosexuals that we ourselves need and yearn for {ro1n others." 
-Homosexualit and the Politics of Truth 

Many atten­ 
dants wanted  
BEN BARROW  to accept tb e  
AITORNEY  deal because  
their  cases  
would evapo­ 

rate without tobacco's waiver of statutes of limitations giving them only a short time to sue, commonly one to four years after a diagnosed illness. 
Their attorneys believe as many as half of about 60,000 nonsmoking attendants poten­tially covered by the settlement would have lost their claims without that concession. 
Alison Cocks-Hamilton, are the first pair of siblings to have been editors of The Observer. Cocks-Hamilton served as edi­tor during the 1990-91 year. 
"Editor-in-chief of The Observer is still the best job I've ever had, and I am excited that my sister gets to share this experience," she said. "I know she'll do a great job." 
Cocks will take over the posi­tion after spring break. 
continued from page 1 
on going to Spain in her sopho­more year. 
At the graduation of the class of 1997 in May. which Fox would have been a part of, the University conferred a posthu­mous degree on her. 
Fox's family did not attend the graduation. 
According to Beatty, Fox's mother, Theresa McCarthy, expressed unhappiness over the plea agreement. "I know that 
"It is kind of hard, you never know about these kind of things," she added. "I wonder about the concept of taking responsibility for one's actions, but we are not meant to makf~ that decision I guess." 
After Rita enters his plea, he could be sentenced to up to one year in prison. But many people involved, including Beatty, don't expect him to spend any time in jail. 
Barnes, the St. Joseph County prosecutor, would not comment. 


Student Body President & Vice-President 


The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
Jeffrey Satinover, MIDI 
Dr. Satinover is a practicing psychiatrist and psychoanalyst and is the former president of the C. G. Jung Foundation of New York. He Holds degrees from MIT, Harvard, and the University ofTexas, and is a former Fellow in Psychiatry and Child Psychiatry at Yale and a former William James lecturer in Psychology and Religion at Harvard. 
An Orthodox Jew living in Connecticut, Dr. Satinover is also the author ofHomosexuality and the Politics ofTruth, a widely applauded analysis of the current debate over homosexuality viewed 

from psychological, religious and scientific perspectives. Dr. Satinover 
will address the argument, advanced at Notre Dame as well as 
nationally, that the American Psychiatric Association's 1973 vote not 
to treat homosexuality as a psychological disorder ought to end all 
discussion of the matter. He hopes that his talk will contribute a 
needed perspective to Notre Dame's discussion ofhomosexuality. 
Tuesday, January 27 Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium • 8:00 p.m. 

the Strake Founda 
-


• NATIONAl NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. astronaut tailors his spacesuit aboard Mir 
SPACE CENTER, Texas 
By loosening some r----~-----. 
straps, astronaut Andrew Thomas man­aged to squeeze his bloated, stretched-out body into his skimpy Russian spacesuit yes-.___..., terday, guaranteeing his spot aboard Mir for the next 4 1/2 months. Without a prop­erly fitting suit for use in an emergency evacuation, Thomas could not have remained on board the Russian space sta­tion. He would have had to turn around and come back to Earth. "It fits the way it was supposed to fit to begin with," reported space shuttle Endeavour's commander, Terrence Wilcutt. Russia's Mission Control was steamed at the suggestion that its tai­lors screwed up. The Russians all but called Thomas a malcontent. "There were no objective problems with his spacesuit," grumbled Viktor Blagov, deputy chief of Mission Control. "The astronaut simply turned out to be somewhat capricious. For us, it's a symptom that the astronaut may remain capricious all through the flight." Hussian space wear expert Alexander Yarov said that after 37 years of manned space­flight, Russians are masters at making orbital attire. In fact, he said huffily, they take the time to offer flight suits, shoes ­even underwear -in bright blue, green and red to jazz up Mir's drab interior. 
FDA: Pentagon violated vaccine regulations 
WASHINGTON 
The Pentagon violated federal rules in giv­ing an encephalitis vaccine to American sol­diers in Bosnia in 1996, raising questions about how the Defense Department per­forms medical research, the Food and Drug Administration says. The FDA, already prob­ing problems stemming from experimental drugs given to Gulf War soldiers, ordered the Pentagon last month to submit detailed procedures to ensure it will follow FDA safe­ty rules. The Pentagon missed the Jan. 12 deadline, the FDA said Monday. but has promised a response soon. "We want it resolved correctly and appropriately, because none of us knows when there will be the need to have another deployment" in which soldiers need experimental drugs, said FDA senior policy analyst Bonnie Lee. The Pentagon is working "to improve com­pliance during such circumstances in the future," said Defense spokesman Lt. Col. Tom Begines. But he stressed that the viola­tions were minor and that the encephalitis vaccine has been given safely to millions of Europeans as well as to the U.S. soldiers. 
Market Watch: 1/26 
AMEX:Dow 661.67 +0.04 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1561.46
7712.94 

-14.47 
NYSE: 500.28 +0.40 

S&P 500: 
Composite 
956.95 Volume: 
+12.20 -0.64 715,272.900 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
Clll!llie6ts~· IICKEB '2!1 'U:1bi~E 1 ilal::. !!liCE 
TVG TECH·UTS TVGVF 264.29 +925.00 1275.00 KING POWER KIG 53.85 +1.75 5.00 VI RAGEN VERP 44.74 +1.06 3.44 COLONELS ISTL COLO 29.17 +1.75 7.75 EUTO TECH M LD CLWWF 28.00 +0.44 z.oo 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
VESTCOM VESC 61.59 ·11.62 7.25 ADC TELECOM ADCT 39.33 ·11.06 17 06 COMMODORE CXOTI' 38.89 ·2.63 4.13 ACI TELECE!'.TRICS ACIT 34.00 ·1.06 2.06 UNIVERSAL DISPLAY PNL 33.05 ·2.43 4.94 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Clinton angrily denies allegations 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
Fighting to save his presidency. President Clinton emphatically denied a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky, yesterday, and sought to reassure wavering Democrats that he will survive the scandal. "I did not have sexual relations with that woman," he said. 
With his wife standing at his side, Clinton wagged his finger at TV cam­eras and declared: "I've never told anybody to lie, not a single time. Never." 
The dramatic White House state­ment marked the first comments on the subject from Clinton since Lewinsky told prosecutors she was willing to testify under the protection of full immunity that she had an affair with him -raising the prospect of a high-stakes showdown between the president and a former White House intern. 
There is no turning back now for Clinton if Lewinsky changes her story and says she had sexual relations with him. 
Bruce Buchanan, a political scientist at the University of Texas, said Clinton's statement "sounded pretty categorical to me. I don't see any weasel words." 
Lewinsky. 24. told a friend she had an affair with Clinton but later denied the claim in an affidavit. She spent several hours Monday with her attor­
P
resident Clinton denies allegations of an affair with Monica Lewinsky, a former
neys. both at her Watergate apart­
White House intern, yesterday, during a White House press conference. 
ment and a local law office. Lewinsky's lead attorney, William 
Ginsburg, is trying to secure a pledge did not put the issue to rest. Reporters "If it's so, it represents a disorder," of immunity from Whitewater prose­asked spokesman Mike McCurry Moynihan said. cutor Kenneth Starr. exactly what sex acts Clinton would Clinton dispatched Vice President Al 
include under the term "sexual rela­Gore to Capitol Hill to tout his State of 
Warned by legal advisers that 
impeachment is not out of the ques­tions." McCurry replied testily, "I'm the Union address and rally tion, the president again refused to not going to dignify that question." Democrats. Behind closed doors, the publicly explain his relationship with The critical test will be on Capitol vice president pre-empted the ques­Lewinsky. Aides now say the president Hill, where Democrats and tions ofconcerned Democrats with his 
opening statement:

will wait weeks or even months to Republicans alike are using grave "It's important 
provide a full accounting, unless terms to discuss the mounting scan­that Democrats support the president Monday's effort fails to slow the politi­dal. and his agenda today, tomorrow and 
Sen. Daniel Moynihan, D-N.Y., in the future." 
cal hemorrhaging. 

called this a "crisis of the regime" and In one of the controversy's rare
Aides also promised to be ready to discredit Lewinsky if she turns against warned that the presidency will crum­
Clinton. The president's fresh denial ble if Clinton had sex with Lewinsky. see CLINTON I page 6 

• ENGLAND 

Pro-British group ends peace talks 
AsSOCIATED PRESS  appalling murders which  UDA members not to kill - just settlement," Lader said.  
have created such fear on  and to get his party back in  Leaders of the Ulster  
LONDON  the streets in Northern  the negotiations, which  Unionists, the main pro­ 
The party representing  Ireland," said Mo Mowlam,  began in June 1996 and are  British Protestant party. and  
Northern Ireland's largest  Britain's Northern Ireland  supposed to conclude by  the Social Democratic and  
pro-British paramilitary  Secretary.  May.  Labor Party, which repre­ 
group withdrew from peace  "You can't have people  "I want to make it clear  sents most of the north's  
talks yesterday. leaving  murdered and ignore it," she  that we will not walk away  Catholics, had demanded  
before they could be expelled  added.  from this process," he said.  that the UDA representatives  
because of three killings  The UDA is supposed to be  flanked by seven colleagues,  be punished.  
claimed by their outlawed  maintaining an October 1994  four of whom spent time in  "Some distance had to be  
ally.  cease-fire to ensure the  prison for attacks on  put between the killers and  
The sudden departure of  Ulster Democrats a place in  Catholics.  this process," SDLP negotia­ 
the Ulster Democratic Party,  the talks. But the group  Mitchell, Mowlam and  tor Mark Durkan said. "The  
which represents the banned  admitted Friday that it killed  Irish Foreign Minister David  Ulster Democratic Party  
Ulster Defense Association.  at least three of the eight  Andrews suggested the  themselves said that their  
will likely raise fears of more  Catholics slain in Northern  Ulster Democrats could be  mandate, their right to be at  
attacks against the north's  Ireland since Christmas.  readmitted within weeks if  the table, depended on the  
Roman Catholic minority.  Former U.S. Sen. George  the UDA isn't blamed for any  silence of their guns."  
The pro-British group  Mitchell, chairman of the  more murders.  Durkan noted that two  
walked out of negotiations  talks and author of the non­ At a reception at the U.S.  Catholics were killed after a  
on Northern Ireland's future  violence stipulations, said it  embassy Monday evening,  UDA statement Friday  
before the British and Irish  was necessary to register  ambassador Philip Lader  promising that it laid down  
governments could force  protest against "a relatively  said it was hoped they could  its weapons.  
them out for allegedly violat­ small number of gunmen ...  rejoin soon "on the basis of  "So far we've been offered  
ing the pledge required of all  acting in defiance of all  a genuine commitment to  false assurances," he said,  
participants-nonviolence.  democratic principles."  exclusively peaceful and  adding that to let the Ulster  
UDA commanders "have  Ulster Democratic Party  democratic methods."  Democrats stay would send  
themselves admitted respon­ leader Gary McMichael  "Time is of the essence" in  the message that "there's an  
sibility for a series of  vowed to keep counseling  finding "an honorable and  acceptable level of killing."  

page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
Clinton 
continued from page 5 
moments, Rep. Jim Moran, D-Va., drew laughter from the caucus by accidental­ly calling Gore "the president." 
For now, most Democrats are with­holding judgment -waiting to see how Clinton weathers the coming few days. "The president made an unequivocal statement. That was good enough for me," Moran said after the meeting. 
Most lawmakers are still away from Washington; a truer test of Clinton's standing in Congress will come Tuesday during his State of the Union address. Democrats promised a warm reception, but said the address will be awkward. 

"Obviously, it's impossible to ignore the context of the speech, what is hap­pening true or false," said Rep. Barbara Kennelly, D-Conn. 
Democrats across the country are pri­vately begging Clinton to quickly pro­vide a full accounting of his relationship with Lewinsky. His closest allies, even some senior administration officials, have expressed doubts about whether Clinton is telling the truth and can sur­vive. 
Trying to avoid a fatal erosion of sup­port, the president is telephoning elect­ed officials and donors, reiterating his 
UNO OF IEAUH & 

denial but providing no details. His poll­ster, Mark Penn, is conducting exten­sive surveys to test the public's mood. Penn's polls have shown Clinton's favorability rating falling. 
Lewinsky told a friend in secretly recorded conversations that she had an affair with Clinton and he tried to cover it up. She later filed an affidavit in Paula Jones' sexual harassment case against Clinton denying both allega­tions, making her a target of Starr's investigation. 
Attorneys for Clinton asked a federal judge Monday to move up her trial date, complaining that the media frenzy sur­rounding the Lewinsky case has created an "undue distraction." 
Clinton's legal team thinks the lawsuit could be a high-profile forum to dis­credit Lewinsky if she cooperates with prosecutors against the president. Jones' spokeswoman said her client would oppose the change. 
Aides said a lay-low strategy devised by Clinton's legal team began to take hold Monday. They hope Clinton's firm denial will slow his downward spiral in polls and be the last he says on the sub­ject for a long while. 
If Lewinsky does not agree to testify against Clinton, aides believe he can weather the allegations without further comment. If she agrees to cooperate with Starr, the legal team will be pre­pared to try to discredit Lewinsky. 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
& 

The African-American Studies Program Proudly Present: 
CLANDO 
(1996-95 min) A Feature Film from Cameroon 
PLENT\' 
WRESTLING WITH THE.DILEMMA FACING MORE AND MORE EDUCATED AFRICANS: WHETHER TO WORK TO CHANGE THE AUTOCRATIC REGIMES AT HOME OR SEEK THEIR FORTUNES ABROAD .. 
Wed. January 28 7:00p.m. 141 Debartolo Hall Other Screenings: Wed: Feb. 4: Tableau Ferraille (Senegal-1997) Wed. Feb. 11: Taafe Fanga (Mali-1997) Wed. Feb. 18: Prime Time South Africa (1995-1996) Wed. Feb. 25: TBA 
http:// www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
Brand Management sum01er Internship Presentation 
All Ist Year MBA's and Juniors of any major are invited to attend. 
"The Myth of the Product Life Cycle" 
Followed by a Q & A session about P&G Brand Management Summer Internship Opportunities. Room 162 College of Business Building Wednesday, January 28th 4:00PM Reception to follow at 5:00PM-Lower Level MBA Lounge, Room 149 



~--~~~--------~------------------~--~----~--~--~~----~~-------------­
Tuesday, January 27, 1998 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 7 
U.S. commits to keep weapons out of Hussein's hands 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Laying the groundwork for a possible attack, the Clinton administration said Monday that Iraq may be manufacturing illegal bio­logical weapons. If the attack is ordered, "it won't be a pinprick," 
o n e Pentagon official said. 

Hussein
Military planners prepared options Monday and administration officials briefed congressional leaders and U.S. allies. House Speaker Newt Gingrich said there should be no mistake about the "American nation's commitment" to preventing Saddam Hussein from obtaining weapons of mass destruction. 
Republicans are "prepared to be supportive" of measures to prevent that from happening, the Georgia Republican said. 
The White House rejected any notion that President Clinton would make his decision ­either to attack or hold back ­in an effort to shift attention from allegations that he had sexual ·relations with a White House intern. 
"Absolutely not, absolutely not," White House spokesman Mike McCurry said, rallying to the president's side as a leader who made independent judg­ments, unrelated to his person­al life. 
"There is no effect," said State Department spokesman James Rubin, as Clinton sent Sandy Berger, his national security assistant, to inform leaders in Congress how he was nearing a decision to order an attack. 
"Our objective for some time has been to do whatever is nec­essary, including not ruling out the use of force, to achieve our objective ... is to be sure that Iraq's ability to make weapons of mass destruction and mis­siles is steadily diminished," Rubin said. 
Already, Senate Republican leader Trent Lott of Mississippi has told the White House chief of staff, Erskine Bowles, that he "hoped that the president would take the necessary action in Iraq no matter what other distractions might be going on," Lott said Sunday. 
Bowles' response, Lott said, indicated Clinton "still would try to do what was right for the country." 
With tensions growing, Rubin said "it cannot be ruled out that Iraq has an operational biologi­cal weapons facility." 
As consultations widened, . Secretary of State Madeleine Albright conferred by telephone with Robin Cook, the British foreign secretary. Britain has supported the United States without qualification and has sent a potent carrier force to keep Iraq from obtaining defend his actions," McCain the Persian Gulf for use in an weapons of mass destruction. said. "The attacks would exact attack on Iraq. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., a price for Saddam's behavior, 

Berger, meanwhile, went to offered his support "if the presi­to the point where he and his Capitol Hill to meet with Lott dent does it right." supporters will figure that it is and Gingrich. The speaker said "If there are sustained and not in their interest to continue Republicans were "prepared to serious air operations, then I defying" the sanctions, said be supportive" of measures to would be one of the first to McCain. 
• 

Hey Juniors, Don•t Forget!! 
Important Information about
Seating ,, ~,~ 


Reg{~£i.ati~nrrolr Di~er 1in:d Brunchl 
One person must have all three IDs ofeach individual in their party. 
Interested in being a reader or intercessor at the Junior Parents' Weekend Mass? 

~-January 27, 28, 29@ 
the CCE from 4-9 p.m. 
There will be nine people at each table. All participants must be paid in full. 
Auditions will be held at the Bascilica on 
'9 
% 
•' 
, 
Feb. 9, 10 from 4-5 p.m. e Please attend one day.
.t,f-

ATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. ­
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you ore unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Staffing, P.O. Box 655 474, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75265. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 



OINT 
page 8 Tuesday, January 27, 1998 


• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

IUAIT A MIN/.J'Te.., YeAH.' I ReMeMBeR N0«/.1 MA77YS A ... A ... 
"' 

'I 
I i 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
''Life is a foreign lan­guage; all men mis pro­nounce it." 
-Christopher Morley 

II. I 
I I: 
I 
I 
I I, 
I: 
I!I I 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprc:osem the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors. and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Managing Editor 631-4541 News/Photo 631-5323 Sporrs 631-4 543 Accent/Saint Marv's 631-4540 Day EditorNiewpoint 631-5303 General Information 631-7471 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Can We All Just Get Along? 
Alyssa DeNardi and the gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall have elucidated very disparate views regarding the impor­tant issue of interpersonal relationships on campus, and there is some merit to each. However, I believe the two can find common ground if they meet in the middle, for each has described an extreme end of the continuum of friendship, and they have· thereby for­saken the great trove of personal fulfill­ment that is found by those who figure somewhere between the two extremes. Experimenting with the full range of interpersonal expressions of friendship and romance is in fact one of the privi­leges of attending college. Educational mind-expansion includes the portion of ourselves we describe as our "essence," that is, our hearts and souls. And dis­covering one's self within the greater context of our societal and wordly roles is the goal of education here at Notre Dame_ Defining that self is the mission of each college student. 
The most reassuring way for incom­ing freshmen to leap into this unfamil­iar and somewhat intimidating college
•• life is to "go with the flow." Translated into Irish terminology, this more often than not entails experimentation with social pursuits described by Ms. DeNardi. Though this is certainly not the choice of every Notre Dame stu­dent, still it is a very popular way to spend some down time when one is beginning the long and winding Irish road. As pointed out by Ms. DeNardi, Bridget's is an undeniably practical vehicle for sparking new relationships. Tim Greene and Hunt Hanover are also right to point out that ND men do in fact seek spiritual connection. But, so do ND women. In fact, this is one of those global goals which we all value. More to the point, why do Messrs. Greene and Hanover presume their mutual exclusion? Just because peo­ple are meeting within the context of 
Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Systems 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

Bridget's does not preclude the possi­bility of a platonic relationship blos­soming. Conversely, an interpersonal spark that ignites during class or other such studious atmosphere does not pre­clude the natural extension of a night out at Bridget's in the full exploration of all the facets of friendship. In rela­tionships, platonic does not mean dull; neither, however, does vivacious equate with vacuous. We must be careful to avoid stereotyping the whole person based upon just one tiny aspect of his or her wide spectrum of social expression. 
Neither Ms. DeNardi nor Messrs. Greene and Hanover allow for the fact that our identities as college students are perhaps best summarized by two words: dynamic growth. Growing involves experimentation with new aspects of our already well-formed per­sonalities. Notre Dame allows us the stimulating forum to experiment intel­lectually and interpersonally. The goal is to mature in both aspects by gradua­tion. Part of that maturation process necessitates the playing out of some roles which we ultimately will choose to discard, some which will come to "feel right" and which we will adopt, and still others which we will create as fresh, new approaches previously unknown to our experience. In that process, there is absolutely nothing wrong with including in one's weekend social scene visits to Bridget's. The same "Hi, where are you from?" can be heard in conversations there as are heard everywhere else on campus. Those who realize sooner than others that such a scene is not as fulfilling as they first hoped have a reward: they can move on to experiment with anoth­er social option more quickly. Lucky for us, there is potential in everything we do_ Watching "Party of Five" with others gives us a chance to be together even as it offers insight into heavy top­ics, as Professor Weithman pointed out during our first discourse in Philosophy 
101. Similarly, there is nothing wrong with seeking intelligence, decency and honesty within "other settings" like "Dorm Masses and volunteer pro­grams." Deep, satisfying conversations and meaningful relationships are prized by both sexes. Denigrating the search for special interrelatedness to a male/female face-off does disservice to us all. 
As for dreaming of someone based solely on his looks and portrayals on screen, I will be the first to admit that I don't find Leonardo DeCaprio attractive and I found precious little to like in 'Titanic." Typifying ND women solely as observers of pretty faces is unfair. Take a walk through the halls of the men's dorms and you won't go far before seeing images of Kathy Ireland and Shania Twain. Is it not possible that surrounding ourselves with pic­tures of those we find pleasing to us, for whatever reasons, is just common to our age, rather than a sex-oriented characteristic? Furthermore, what does this form of affordable interior decoration imply about our overall objectives in interpersonal relation­ships? Personal expression of taste does not automatically exclude us from that club of those who are seeking "meaningful connections" on campus. 
Finally, I would like to argue with Messrs. Greene and Hanover's state­ment that "worthy Notre Dame men are not to be found at Bridget's." Sure they are. I think I recall seeing these two particular men themselves at the infa­mous bar on occasion and I am certain that they are worthy and thoughtful individuals. It might be more accurate to conclude that worthwhile relation­ships are not as likely to ignite while dancing on the tables or soaking up the good deal of Penny Pitcher nights. Let's not be too quick to pass judge­
menton the moral character of all bar­goers. 
I am reminded of a personal experi­ence that just occurred to me over win­ter break. I was enjoying the perfor­mances of my two younger brothers at one of their Irish dancing lessons when a man inquired as to whose autographs are on their NO t-shirts. I soon discov­ered that the gentleman, a Notre Dame alumnus, was watching his two lovely daughters. Now happily married and successful, this man had met his wife while both were students at Notre Dame. I think of this family and I smile. I look forward to the possibility of finding my special someone here; perhaps someday I too will walk down the aisle of the Basilica on the arm of that special man. But I ain not rushing it. Our Dome here at Notre Dame is a magnificent umbrella over the most incredible opportunities that I have seen, and ever may sec for the duration of my life. I visit the Grotto and am touched by its beauty. I look to the Golden Dome and feel somehow com­forted. My career as a Notre Dame stu­dent is not one-eighth over, it is seven­eighths beginning. I intend to taste and savor as much as I am able, and all that I choose. 
The key is to be alive to the options constantly playing out before our eyes. We have so much from which we may choose. Embracing a core self of good­ness and then constructing the fine­tuning of that self-description is both our duty and our pleasure. The key is not to become mired in either of the extremes bewailed by Ms. DeNardi and Messrs. Greene and Hanover. The secret is to move inward and explore the great middle territory. 
Brittany Morehouse Freshman, Howard Hall January 20, 1998 




VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, Januray 27, 1998 page 9 
• TABLE TALK 

In Memory of John Yoder: Scholar, Professor, Friend 
Normally, setting aside a pair of Academy about 30 miles south of Notre crutches is good news, cause for celebra-Dame. We heard him talk about the tion. However, a certain pair of crutches importance of maintaining the integrity -and the quiet bearded man who used of the just war tradition to a group of them to get around -will be sorely high school students at this rather elite missed on our cam-residential military 
~ pus. On Dec. 30, =========~~~~~~~ academy. As I listened· John Howard to this aging, bearded, Yoder. internation-leaning-on-one-crutch.
Davl•d 

ally respected internationally known Mennonite theolo-Mennonite pacifist, field gian and longtime their sometimes sophis­
w• 

professor of theolo-ticated but just as often
eISS 

gy, ethics, and ill-formed and awk­peace studies died ward questions ­from an aortic always with unfailing aneurysm in his grace -I realized that office. Having spent the last six years as I was watching something akin to one of hls doctoral students and gradu-redemptive patience. ate assistants, I came to regard John "The Politics of Jesus" concludes with both as a mentor and a friend. a short Latin phrase vicit agnus noster. 
His book, "The Politics of Jesus," pub-eum sequamur. It means "our lamb has lished in the early 1970s, ranks among conquered; let us follow him." I suspect the most influential books ever to come that this simple phrase, this inauspicious out of the Anabaptist tradition. It chal-confession, was the source of John's lenged the consciousness of untold patience. He had the time to dialogue "mainstream" Christians (myself among because the victory, after all, was not them) with its clarion call to a politically going to be secured either by his rhetoric charged vision of Jesus long before such or his wisdom -forceful though both portraits came into vogue, and it contin-could be. Rather, the victory was ues to constitute a defining moment for already accomplished by the lamb ... on many who encounter it even today. the cross. 
His thesis, simply put but thoroughly Though academically brilliant, John and eloquently argued, was that was not similarly gifted in social graces, Christian ethics begins not by finding something I suspect his undergraduate ways to set aside the radicalness of students will readily affirm. Perceived Jesus' ethics, but rather by finding ways by some as either arrogant or indiffer­in community to take those ethics seri-" ent, I think it is truer to say that his pow­ously. In other words, the church is to erful intellect was matched by a hardy bear the message of the gospel by being shyness. He was known by his graduate that message. If the gospel of God's rec-students (and, I gather, by his own chil­oociling love had political implications dren, as well) as gregarious in only the for the community of followers called most subtle ways. Though hardly reclu­into being by Jesus -if it decisively sive -his office door was always open shaped the pattern of their life together -he was not given easily to small talk -then it will continue to have such or laughter. And yet, for those suffi­implications among those of us who link ciently patient, there were moments ourselves to that heritage and that call-when his wit, laughter, or broad smile ing. were grandly present. One such occa-
The breadth of John's scholarship, sion came in mid-December when a crossing both linguistic and disciplinary group of his Ph.D. students hosted him boundaries, was amazing, and equalled for a simple early birthday potluck prior by the cluttered array of books and to the holidays. For many it was the last boxes that framed his office, both walls time they would see John; graciously, it and floor. And although he regularly was an evening unusually full of laugh-accorded himself the status of "non-ter. expert" when addressing some new issue John knew that I wrote poetry, and he (often at the invitation of others), few remarked more than once about a par-were ever less than awed by the sheer ticular limerick he recalled concerning force of his intellectual perception and the famous Protestant ethicist Reinhold the measured wisdom of his words-Niebuhr. I often thought that John and their abundance: the exhaustive bib-deserved a limerick of his own, and as liography of his writings has nearly 700 his 70th birthday approached I decided entries. to pen one myself. Finally, on Dec. 30, 
Alongside John's many scholarly gifts, the day after he turned 70, I wrote, he was an eminently patient man, exem-Across the battlefields the soldiers say, plified by his score of years teaching as a "'Tis time to pause a moment from the pacifist·here at Notre Dame, a Catholic fray. university committed to the just war tra-This fine man Yoder dition. Besides teaching in the theology is one year older. department, he was welcomed in venues Set arms aside to honor his birthday." as diverse as the Peace Institute and the About 2 p.m., unaware that he had HOTC program. Strangely enough, in the died just two hours before, I e-mailed it ongoing tug-of-war over how much the to him, calling it a "slightly tardy, escha­just war tradition should accommodate tological birthday limerick." At the time itself to the prevailing "realities" of the I had no idea how utterly tardy-and moment. John Yoder, a Mennonite paci-wholly eschatological it was. He never fist, quietly but persistently situated him-got it, of course. But -even now, I can self as the anchor person on the side of a picture him smiling. And he remains tradition "with teeth," a tradition pos-grandly present. sessing the courage and wherewithal to He will be remembered in a memorial take a prophetic stanee even within what service this Friday at 3:30p.m. in the he himself considered an inadequate Basilica. John had hoped somehow to grasp of tlw gospel. commemorate the 1700th anniversary of 
Indeed, he was at times chided by the feast of Marcellus this coming Oct. some of his pacifist colleagues for main-30. (Some of the bones of Marcellus, a taining a seemingly fruitless dialogue third century Christian pacifist martyred with a tradition that often only begrudg-in 298 lie beneath the altar of the ingly accepted his insights. But he Basillica.) This Friday, in a supreme viewed his efforts as something deeper ecumenical irony, Marcellus will com-and more dirPct than dialogue. For him memorate John first. they were an aspect of Christian witness, a necnssary attempt to lessen the vio­David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in lence inflicted by persons bearing the Christian ethics. /lis column appears image of God on others bearing that every other Tuesday. same image. The opinions e.rpressed in this column 
Last spring another student and I are those of the author and not necessar­accompanied John on an annual pilgrim­ily those of The Observer. age that he made to Culver Military 

• So, WHAT's Mv POINT? 
Does El Nifio Deserve all 
the Headlines? 
Somebody give me the Nobel Peace Prize. 
I've finally found it. 
The one, unifying.element on this earth. The tie that binds. 
The common ground. The one common denominator that we all share. 
It is the weather. 
Yes, the weather. 
With all the media attention 
given to it, the weather must be important. Think about it. Every single one of us is affected by the weather. Nationally, we've got a

Nakasha 
whole cable TV channel devoted to weather. Just weather. What I want to know is, how do they do it? 

Ahmad 
How could a topic so utterly mun­dane, so full of simply momentary interest (it's not like it's a soap opera or anything) generate 

enough news to fill an entire channel 24 hours a day, 365 days a year? Unbelievable. And of course, this winter there has been all of the fuss over "El Nino," the 
ocean current that has been messing up weather right and left on the planet. Wherever you go, you cannot get away from El Nifio. When I was watching the CBS Evening News a couple of months ago and Dan Rather told me to stay tuned for a special story on the "El Nifio watch," I thought he had to be kid­ding. He wasn't. So I thought, okay, slow news day. 
For the past two months, there has been an "El Nino Watch" segment almost every day. ~ 

It's been a slow news year. 
Locally, of course, our beloved stations also rely on the weather as a visible sign of their journalistic success. Have you heard the local NBC affiliate advertising its news programs with its "Storm Team 16?" Oooh. Aaah. That's how I choose my TV news stations on -not whether they're really any good at reporting the news itself, but whether they can finn a catchy little rhyming phrase to describe their handling of the weather. And one of the other local stations here (the CBS affiliate, I think) advertises "weather on the twos." I'm not kidding. Weather on the twos. Do we really need to know whether it's going to be 10 below or 5 below today every 10 minutes? 
Why all this interest in the weather? Maybe it is because we're stuck in dreary South Bend, Ind., where the sun ... well, when was the last time .lJOU remember seeing it? 
All this emphasis on the weather in fact makes a person think -the weath­er probably really is the only thing we have in common. That's why news advertisers play it up so much -not everyone is interested in the gory truck accident or the budget cuts -but the weather? There we go.· Everyone will watch the weather. 
But then again, when you're stuck walking with an acquaintance and you have nothing to talk about, there are only two things that you can bring up­
1) dass and 2) the weather. Depending on how you're doing in class, the weather can seem like a pretty good option. These kinds of conversations can go on for 20 minutes or more. I once had to walk out with a professor I didn't know very well and had nothing to say to. 
For the entire 15 minutes of our walk, we talked about what a beautiful day it was. 
It's amazing that something as simple and ordinary and well, quite frankly, as boring as the weather can generate this much media attention. The Weather Channel, El Nino Watch, "Weather on the twos." 
The scary thing is that if this is what they put so much emphasis on, you've got to wonder -is any of the other stuff they cover that important either? (Oh, and you can give me my Nobel when the sun starts shining again.) 
Nakasha Ahmad is a sophomore English major at Saint Mary's. ller column appears every other Tuesday. The opinions expressed in this -column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

~ --·-..;)~~ ... ji,.~· ....----· ................... " 
llllc• ..-..._.~~~~,. • • • ~-.· •. .,_.., • • .-_.,.._... , ••. .; ~ 
Q£$£U!

4 3 @4. a; a .4& .a 2 I a a au a &~ & 
II 
l'
,\ ·, 
Tuesday, January 27, 199; 

ACCENT 

• ACCENT ASKS ••• 

Have you 
been sicl{ 
recently? 

"I got a cold, I'm not sure how, but my mom (Cele) warmed up some whiskey, and that made me feel a whole lot better." 
Katy Fallon
I 
Sophomore, Welsh Family 
.ii 
"Yes, I have a cold. I think I got it from my roommate. It could have been lack of sleep too." 
Kwabena Adu-Sarkodie Sophomore, Off Campus 


"Yes, I have been sick. It was 


horrible, I could have died. It was the cold from hell. I think I got it 
from my mom; I'll get her back 
someday."

!\ 
II 
Rachel Jones Sophomore, Walsh 
"It's all about attitude. What's a 
runny nose compared to the Cross 
of Christ?" 
Tony Ariniello Freshman, Keough 

. ' 
. ' 
I i' 

I "I have been sick twice already; I think it's because I actually like getting sick; my roommate takes great care of me, freshly squeezed orange juice and chicken soup just like mom makes; it's great." 

Emily Schmitt McGlinn, Freshman 


The Observer/Joe Stark 

Te.,{
·.~.'
}~:=..~_·····~,.,·······.· 
. 
J 

By BRIDGET RZEZUTKO 
Accenr Writer 
Brrr! It's cold out there! And look at you, not properly clothed! What would your mother say? "Put a hat and boots on, and zip that coat! Do you have your mittens?" Do you? With winter here, we have to lug around a lot more clothing than most 
of us like. Who really wants to keep track of his or her hat and coat while dancing at a party or drinking at the bar? We have other, more important things on our mind at those times. However, it is essential that we do think about these winter necessities. 
First of all, let's address the topic of boots. They are not always fash­ionable. God knows you can't wear your brown boots with black pants. I mean, what would people think? But seriously, they serve a higher purpose than just looking stylish. That Gore-Tex is water resistant and that fleece inside keeps those little toes from falling right ofT. End prod­uct: warm appendages. With no frost bite, you arc still able to play "This little piggy went to the market," much to the delight of your roommate and friends. 
And where is your winter hat? Not a baseball cap, guys. That just doesn't cut it. Hats aren't exactly the coolest part of a wardrobe either, but it does wonders against blocking heat loss. That little scrap of cloth on top of your head, with the fuzzy fleece lining, keeps all that hot air in, while at the same time keeping the cold air out. It also protects your ears from going numb. Wow, huh? It's elementary, yet we all seem to forget this. 
I know, bundling up is not fun. By the time you get on your thermals, coat, mittens, scarf, hat and whatever else, you proba­bly feel like the Abominable Snowman, Ralphie's little brother in the movie "The Christmas Story," or have to go to the bathroom. But kids, we've got to face the elements. Not dressing properly is one of the biggest causes of winter illnesses. 
Colds are probably the worst of all the sicknesses. We all know the feelings: a runny nose, stuffy head and absolutely no energy. Agreeably, this is no fun. Not to mention that snif­fling every two seconds is just not attractive. Seeing A student suffering from cold finds temporary reli1 as there is no cure for the common cold, we've got to protect ourselves. Here are a few recommendations: 


First of all, don't go outside with wet hair when it is snowing. Whether you will be late for class or not, that is just dumb. Secondly, wear layers and cover all exposed flesh. Jack Frost might be trying to nip at your nose, but don't you let him! 
Most importantly, eat a proper diet. This is crucial in assisting your body's natural defens­es against illness. Try to eat protein, such as cheeses and meats, and less junk food in order to have more energy pulling those all nighters. 

Another extremely common winter illness is the flu. Flu shots are strongly recom­mended by most doc­tors, but it is too late to receive one now. . . . The <>t:>s~rver/ Joe Stark Generally the shots, A student we1ghs h1s opt1ons for cold med1cme. which are effective 
against the heavier strains of flu, arc given in October or November. Although that does us no good now, keep that in mind for next year. In case you weren't 


-
Tuesday, January 27, 1998 page 11 
• ACCENT 


• 



are 

• 


thinking ahead and 
didn't pre-arm your­
self with a vaccine this 
season, don't give up 
hope yet. You can 
take precautions by 
catching up on your 
beauty sleep, or get­
ting plenty of rest. 
Drinking plenty of flu­
ids and Vitamin C 
helps to replenish 
your body's depleting ,....,..~,~·'''>""• 
sup ply. Taking a ~--------=----------' 
The Observer/ Joe Stark 

strong multi-vitamin Hanna Atkinson knows how to stay warm. 
is also suggested. If you are unsure of what kind to take, any pharmacist can assist you in choosing one formu­lated for your specific needs. As a last precaution, cut back on soda! A can of pop contains more sugar than anything substantial. Try obeying your thirst with fruit juice instead of with a Sprite. 
Your immune system has a very important job to do. It is there to pro­tect your body from illness, but if you don't take care of it, it won't work properly. Really, what's a little hat head and two feet shielded in clunky boots in exchange for a healthy immune system? 

Saint Joseph's Medical Center has a free, 24-hour phone service called ASK-A-NURSE. The number is 288­9977. The staffed nurses will be able to answer any med­ical questions you might have. This reporter called and learned all about the wonders of col­ored mucus. Colored mucus is a sign of a germ, not a virus, which is a common misconcep­tion. This discol­oration requires medical attention, but there is good news. A germ will respond to antibi­otics and you will be on the road to recovery in no time. However, a virus will not respond to antibiotics. A virus 
The Observer/ Joe Stark needs to just run its course and wear

ef of congestion by blowing her nose. 
away on its own. If 

you have a virus, look on the bright side. You can always milk it for attention and maybe get free.._chicken noodle soup or a get well present. 
In this time of unstable weather, one just has to remember the motto of a Boy Scout and "be prepared." Be ready for the switches between warm. eold and freezing conditions. Wear layers. And next time you are sitting in class and start coughing, cover your mouth! You don't have to walk around with a face mask on, but do look out not only for yourself, but also for your peers. 
And wear your hat! 
T
he African Student Alliance presents five fea­ture films beginning Jan. 28 thru Feb. 25. 
"Clando Wednesday" -Jan. 28@ 7 p.m., room 
141 DeBartolo "Tableau Ferraille" -Wednesday, Feb. 4 "Taafe Fanga" -Wednesday, Feb. 11 "Prime Time South Africa" -Wednesday, Feb. 18 "Malcolm X" -Wednesday, Feb. 25 
• 


• 

Combatting colds & their friends 
Colds, flu, "the grippe," pneumonia ... . Recently it was reported that in the U.S. an average of 20,000 people die each year from the flu or its complications. Here are three ways to fight back! 
t. Make a special effort to avoid becoming sick with one of these illnesses. Get vaccinated! One of the more severe life and long-term health threats is the lung disease, pneumonia. 
It's little known as yet, but there is an effective vaccine against most of the more common kinds of pneumonia. For these vaccinations, it's critical to not be sick or have a fever when you get the shot. 
Next, be sure to include the following list of nutrients in your food, multi-vitamins, and your other vitamins. 
Take Vitamin C. Intakes of at least 1,000 mg per day have not only been found in some studies to cut the duration of such illnesses in half and to cut the severity of symptoms in half; but other studies suggest that this much vitamin C seems to sharply reduce the inci­dence and severity of secondary bacterial infections. 
Include Zinc. Surprisingly, many people get too little; and it's apparently a good immune system booster. In addition, getting a total of up to 100 to 120 mg a day for the first two or three days has been found to cut the duration and severity of colds in half. It is imperative, however. to take 2 or 3 mg ofCopper if you take Zinc. 
Zinc and Copper interact; and not only will the Zinc do you more good with enough Copper to balance it, failing to do this can contribute to heart disease -according to sev­eral studies. 
Lots of beta-carotene or foods containing it and getting at least the RDA, 5,000 IU, of the traditional form of vitamin A are thought to help boost your immune system and keep your mucous membranes and upper respiratory system surfaces healthy and harder to infect. 
Taking deodorized garlic supplements regularly may also be a good preventive measure. 
Other useful preventive strategies: 
Regular exercise of sufficient intensity to warm you up or even make you sweat. Also. if you can afford it, careful use and regular replacement of a whole house water filter. 
Try to have good relationships and social support groups. And make an effort to treat other people with respect at worst and with love at best. Studies show that hostility tends to reduce immune system levels and loving feelings tend to increase immune system levels. 
Things like using paper cups in your bathroom rather than a plastic glass that everyone shares and is rarely washed; washing your dishes in a dishwasher rather than by hand in cooler water; having everyone cover sneezes and coughs; and washing your hands before eating have been shown to help you avoid coming down sick when other people in your household are sick or coming down with something. Also, when you brush your teeth, rinse your toothbrush thoroughly and be sure to knock the remaining water off your toothbrush before putting it up. This will minimize the growth of bacteria on it. 
2. Take steps to help colds & flu go away quickly and soften their blow. 
The vitamin C and Zinc just mentioned above seem to do this best when the extra amounts are started as soon as possible after you realize you may be coming down with one of these. With vitamin C, it can be helpful to take 100 to 250 mg every four hours in addition to your normal daily vitamin C -so that your supply of vitamin C stays high all day. 
Consider temporarily taking the herbs echinacea and golden seal. 
DRINK LOTS OF WATER! 
This serves three important functions: 
First and most important is to prevent dehydration! 
Second, colds and flu tend to increase mucous and make it thicker. Too little water tends 
to worsen this process by thickening your mucous further and may contribute to the devel­opment of secondary infections. Third, ample water may help your body flush out the invaders and the debris from their 
battle with your immune system. Chicken soup really works! Extra rest can help. 
3. Take steps to recover well and quickly; and boost your avoidance efforts for avoid­ing these illnesses in the future. 
Invest in a couple of new toothbrushes. Surprisingly, retiring your old toothbrush when you are about three-fifths to three-fourths through your cold or flu and clearly beginning to recover -and doing it again when you are just fully recovered has been found to pre­vent you from catching the same illness again -or prolonging it -by reinfecting you with the bacterial and viruses on your toothbrush. 
Siberian ginseng and ginkgo biloba-particularly in combination-are two of the herbs that seem to help some people recover their energy better and more quickly after being 
..
sick with the flu. Do anything else you can that helps you rest better or have more energy in healthful ways. Use your current motivation to avoid future colds and flu to begin or plan to do the steps above that will help you prevent them. 
The entirety of this article can be found on the web at http://www.opendoor.com/IEHealth/FluOI.html. Before trying any of these remedies it is advised to check with your doctor first. 
Tuesday, January 27, 1998

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
.NHL 

Flyers slip past Islanders; Penguins top Blues 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Eric Lindros scored twice and had an assist and Rod Brind'Amour added a goal and two assists as the Philadelphia Flyers beat the New York Islanders 3-1 Monday night. 
Brind'Amour's three points gave him 600 in his nine-season NHL career. while Lindros moved ahead of Rick Tocchet into seventh place on the Flyers' all-time goals list with 216. Tocchet had 215. 
The Islanders had only three shots in the third period and posted a eason-low 11 shots on Flyers goaltender Ron Hextall. New York's previous low was 15 on Dec. 22 against Ottawa. It was also the lowest shot total by a Flyers' oppo­nent this season. 
The Flyers are unbeaten in their last eight home games (6-0-2) and goal from Travis Green. are 1-13-2 in their last 16. 
Philadelphia managed only 21 shots, four more than its season low, on Islanders goalie Tommy Salo. 
The Islanders cut the Flyers' lead to 2­1 when Green scored on a 40-foot slap shot at 4:26 of the second period. 
But Lindros' second goal of the game made it 3-1 with 11:35 left in the game. Lindros took a pass on the right wing from Brind'Amour. cut to the center and beat Salo high to the glove side with a 10-foot wrist shot. 
Rich Pilon picked up a five-minute penalty, a game misconduct and a gross misconduct for checking John LeClair into the boards from behind early in the first period. 
The Islanders were already short­handed, giving the Flyers a two-man advantage for 1:23. Philadelphia didn't score with the two-man advantage, but . did score before Pilon's major expired. 
Lindros made it 1-0 with the power­play goal at 6:11. Waiting alone in the slot, he one-timed a pass from behind the net by LeClair, and the eight-footer beat Salo low to the far side. 
Philadelphia took a 2-0 lead late in the first period. Brind'Amour attempted a pass across from the right circle, but the puck caromed ofT the stick of Islanders defenseman Bryan Berard past Salo. 
Pittsburgh Penguins 4, St. Louis Blues 2 
PITTSBURGH 
Ed Olczyk had a goal an assist as the 
Pittsburgh Penguins scored three times 
in 70 seconds to chase goaltender Grant Fuhr in the first period and beat the slumping St. Louis Blues 4-2 Monday night. 

The Penguins scored on two of their first four shots against Fuhr, then got a goal on their first shot against Jamie McLennan as the Blues' winless streak extended to 0-5-1. 
Fuhr appeared to be surprised on both goals. At 4:48, Darius Kasparaitis scored his third. Blues defenseman Jami~ Rivers shot the puck around the boards and Kasparaitis wheeled and blindly fired it on net. 
Olczyk scored his 1Oth at 5:44, beating Fuhr through the pads from the right circle. That led Blues coach Joel Quenneville to make the goalie change. 
Alexei Morozov made it 3-0 at 5:56 when he took Olczyk's pass. broke in alone down the slot and put a shot over McLennan's shoulder. 
Steve Duchesne ended the Blues' five­game, 0-for-18 power-play drought at 
11:52 of the first. The goal also ended Pittsburgh's streak of 34 penalty kills, which had gone nine games. 
Pittsburgh's Martin Straka scored dur­ing a four-minute power play at 16:02 of the second. Rob Brown made a good play to knock down Olczyk's pass with his glove and set up Straka's tap-in. 
Pavol Demitra scored shorthanded at 
9:43 of the third. pushing a backhander past Tom Barrasso for his 15th. Demitra is tied for the NHL lead with three short­handed goals. 
The Penguins are on a 5-1-1 streak and have a four-point lead over second­place Montreal in the Northeast Division. 
The Blues haven't won in Pittsburgh since Nov. 8. 1990. They are 0-6-1 in that stretch. 
Penguins right wing Jaromir Jagr sus­tained a facial cut when he was struck by St. Louis defenseman Chris Pranger's high stick at 1:28 of the second period. Jagr left the ice for medical attention and returned about five minutes later. 
St. Louis is 4-7-1 since Brett Hull was sidelined by a broken hand in late December. 
New York Rangers 2, Washington Capitals 2 
NEW YORK 

Andrew Brunette's goal midway through the third period pulled the Washington Capitals into a 2-2 tie with the New York Rangers on Monday night. 
It was the 14th tie of the season for 
the Rangers, who are on track along 
with the Colorado Avalanche to break the NHL's all-time team record of 24 ties in a season, set by the 1969-70 Philadelphia Flyers. The Avalanche already have 16 ties. Brunette scored his 1Oth goal on the rebound of a shot by Sergei Gonchar at 10:21 of the third period, beating Rangers goaltender Mike Richter from point-blank range. 

Adam Graves scored both goals for New York. Graves redirected a point shot from Jeff Finley past Washington goaltender Olaf Kolzig for his 15th goal at 1:25 of the third period. Graves had given New York a 1-0 lead at 1:11 of the second when he stuffed a rebound past Kolzig. 
Peter Bondra made it 1-1 at 9:55 of the second when he converted Brunette's pass from behind the net for his 32nd. 
The Rangers were without captain Brian Leetch, who was sidelined with a compressed nerve in his right leg. 
Before the game the Rangers announced that forward Alexei Kovalev will have arthroscopic surgery on Wednesday to repair a potential carti­lage tear in his right knee. Kovalev is expected to be sidelined for three weeks, keeping him from playing in the Olympics. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's new location and check out the best ILOST & FOUND I WALK TO CAMPUS 

2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 
If anyone at Thurs. Job Fair picked up a long black Evan 4 or 5 bedrm furnished house, w/d, Piccone woman's dress coat by sand volleyball, 119 N. St. Peter, mistake, call Melissa at 4-0897. 233-9947 
House for Rent 
Two Blocks from Campus 4-5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for Summer, August for Fall. Includes Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and off-street Parking. 
Irish Connection Jan 30 
TICKETS 
You may not be able to eat 
Whitey's or Harris, but the excite-WANTED-NO vs MIAMI B-Ball tix ment's way above flood stage, on 2122. Lower arena. baby! Are you a Quad·Citian? Ever 258-1111 been to the Quad-Cities? Thinking 
about GOING to the Quad Cities? 

Spring Break vacations around. Wanted: Alan Jackson tix. Do you date a Quad-Citian? Ever 
Don't take a chance with an LOST: GOLD DOLFIN BRACELET Furn. 1 bdrm apt., $400/mo, room, MONITORED SECURITY Call Dave at 273-1264. hooked up with someone from 
unkown agency or some 1-800 if found plese call $200/mo. SYSTEM INCLUDED!!! Bettendorf? If ihe answer is yes to 
number. Limited space available, so X 0849 Private entrance, kitchen, utilities Call 289-4712 any of these questions, then you 
PERSONAL

book now' included, laundry, phone, 2 mn. N. need to be at the Quad City Party Anthony Travel, Inc. Lost: Gold and silver wristwatch. of campus. Call272-0615. Nice 4 bdrm for next school year. this Friday. Locate your main home-Lafortune Student Center Huge sentimental value. If found Newly remodeled, off-street pkg. ADOPTION IS LOVE slices, Bob or Tony, for details. The 631-7080 call Becky x4215. ROOM4Rent $128+util Share $600/mo + utilities & dep. Happily married NO Alumni couple, Quad City Party-Bob and Tony 
I 
house w/ grad stu Good neighborhd Close to school. with adopted 3 year old daughter, care for YOU. ••• ACT NOW' LAST CHANCE TO 280-5274 233-9805 wants to shower new baby with 
WANTED

RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic How we gonna pay last year's SPRING BREAK. GROUP DIS· 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR lawyer dad, and a sister to play Rent? 
t 
COUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE. Need child care 30 hrs/wk. WASHER/DRYER SUMMER OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD with. Friends on the swingset, trips LEISURE TOURS HAS PACK· Must have transportation. FALL.272-6551 AREA NORTH OF NO to the zoo, grandma, play groups, Yay. A new EIC. Now we can 
I 
AGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT 271-1935 2773097 lullabies, too. This is a home where REALLY have fun with that name. FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR wishes come true. We'd like to get PADRE ISLAND. Child care 1 to 3 ~fternoons per FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM to know you. Call Shawn & Meg I love Hiltz's laugh. l 1-800·838-8203. week. 12:30 to 5:30 for two girls OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 800-767-4257.j WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM ages 4 and 8 (8 year-old after VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 2773097 Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. Any juniors not attending JPW or 
3:30). Transportation a big plus. MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. any with extra tickets, please call -THE COPY SHOP -Good pay. Call 277-7071. 243-0658. if anyone found a black swiss army Dan at x2486.
FOR SALE
LaFortune Student Center watch at the late night olympics, WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, COMPUTER HELP 2 SEDAM HOUSE FOR RENT please return it!! call Nick Yovanoff I cannot believe it's really this late. 
AND WEEKENDS'!! Set up IBM software. Knowledge of GRANGER-WASHER, DRYER, Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM, at 4-0614. Thank You! and I'm still here. My experience Mon -Thur 7 30am -Midnight Filemaker 3 0, Lotus SmartSuite, REFRIG & STOVE. $695 MONTH Color monitor includes carrying isn't worth anything. Fri 7:30am • 7:00pm Zip backup and scanning. Good PLUS SECURITY case, manual, etc. Are you the biggest pimp to 
\ I Sat Noon -6:00pm pay. Call Ron 273-1717. CALL BOB 232-6434 Call Greg @288-2654 ever play the drums? Stamper Bets. Sun Noon -Midnight Bob is announcing open Thanks for your help. I couldn't CALL 631-COPY MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO Beautiful Brass bed, queen size, auditions for the remainder of have gotten through this horrible 
FOR RENT 

SHARE 2-BDRM HOME. INC. with orthopedic Mattress set and the year. Call Matt @ 289·1168 night without you. Earn money with penny stocks! WASHER/DRYER, PHONE, frame. New, never used, still in or Andy @ x1136 Free information! Nards CUTE 1-BDRM APT. $380 SATELITI; TV. plastic. $225 Dan loves to read. He isn't half bad 2233 Adams Lorain, Ohio 44052 273-3996 219-289-1357. 219-862-2082 I know someone who is.... at it either. 
Tuesday, January 27, 1998 

The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA 

Bird accepts coaching duties 
First-year coach changes mind, will coach stars 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Larry Bird, the Indiana Pacers rookie coach, changed his plans for a florida vaca­tion and said Monday he would coach the East in the annual NBA All-Star game. 

Bird was a 12-time All-Star with the Boston Celtics but said he had no desire to coach in the Feb. 8 game in New York. The Pacers, however, earned the coaching honor for him by compiling the best record in the Eastern Conference as of Sunday's cut­off date. 
After practice Monday, Bird said he would be happy to coach the All-Stars. 
"It will be a great honor to go and represent the Indiana Pacers, no question about that. Hopefully, I'll have a few of my players going with me," Bird said. "Being from a small-market team and know­ing we don't get a lot of press, 
I think it would be good for all 
of us if I went and participated 
in it." 
Pacers assistant coaches 
Dick Barter and Rick Carlisle 
will assist Bird in the All-Star 
game. 
The starting lineups for the Eastern and Western confer­ence teams were announced by the league Sunday, and the remaining seven members of each team will be selected this week by the coaches in each conference. The Pacers' Reggie Miller and Rik Smits were considered to have a good shot at being named to the East team and Mark Jackson an outside chance. 
The Pacers (28-12} are a half-game behind the Chicago Bulls (30-13} in the Central Division standings but have a better winning percentage, the determining factor in the selection of the All-Star coach­es. 
"I would enjoy a few days off, but that would be selfish of me," Bird said. "I represent the Indiana Pacers and I should go. I am very honored." 
Bird was the All-Star most valuable player in 1982 and will become only the third MVP to also coach an All-Star 

game, joining Bill Sharman 
and Lenny Wilkens. 
"As a player, I didn't like to participate because I don't like All-Star games," Bird said. 
He said coaching the game 
in Madison Square Garden will 
be easy, however. 
"You just sit back and watch them do what they do best, and that's play basketball. We'll give them a couple plays, but it's an All-Star game," Bird said. "They're not going to listen to coaches." 
Pacers president Donnie Walsh said he never doubted Bird would coach the All­Stars. 
"Larry Bird lives up to his obligations," Walsh said. "It's a hell of a tribute to the coaches and our players. It's a great honor for our franchise." 
Bird will be the first Indiana coach in the NBA All-Star game. 
Former Pacers coach Bob Leonard coached in the American Basketball Association All-Star game in 1970. The only Pacers players in the NBA All-Star game were Don Buse and Billy Knight in 1977, Detlef Schrempf in 1993 and Miller in 1990, 1995 and 1996. 
Spring Break Seminars 
March 7-14, 1998 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of 12 sites in the Appalachian region 
-Information Session: Jan. 26th, 7:30PM 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants Live with migrant families Information Session: Jan. 21st, 7:00PM 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Environmental Issues 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
Service and political awareness opportunities Information Session: Jan. 26th, 7:00PM 
All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Applications Due: Jan. 28, 1998 

• 

Celtics finally take one from Knicks 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

The Boston Celtics ended 
their 21-game losing streak 
against New York on Monday 
night, beating the Knicks 4-85 
behind 25 points from 
Chauncey Billups. 
It was Boston's first win 
over New York since Jan. 10. 
1993. The losing streak was 
the Celtics' longest ever 
against an opponent, while 
th~ 21 straight victories were 
the.,f)lost, ~Y the.JSnicksagainst
one'teanL ... 
Antoine Walker .had 16 
points, six assists and seven 
rebounds for Boston, includ­
ing a 3·pointer with under 
two minutes left after the 
Knlcks had cut a 12-point lead 
to84:'.77•. > .,,. 
John Starks hit a ~rpointer
for>New. York. ther1 Billups 
lllade an off-balan9e layup 
and•drew a foul for a three-
point play that pushed the 
lead back to 1 0 points. , ·.· ..·.... .... 
. '1\fter the team$. ...,Jraded 
turnovers, .Allan flousion .llit.a 
·tk•~.!Sf.'r···~c;;fe.,.rtem···~··af<d.~er ...•..t~w····'olfi.:r···~e·?e.r..•·.·..·.·•.....•.h;,r,Ro..·.·.·ws9~~'
iY~.., 
for Boston. then the Knick.s 
:·:.~:;~--;·-;b::::.::::~::;::_.-:::· :'=:::~=~~:?~:::::::.:: .:~:::~;: .:::::i~//~:=:::=:~:::::--=\:~::@:~:::;;~:~t:%t~W:i@~:-_·: .. 
.:.;;:\:~;:;::::::::;:.:::::_---. 
missed a 3-pointer as their I season*long four-game win-I 
ning streak came to an end. 
Houston led New York with 21 points. Charles Oakley and Chris Dudley each had nine rebounds for the Knicks. 
Boston led 72-61 early in the fourth quarter and 75·65 with 8:25 left before Starks made a scoop shot and, after a Celtics turnover, Chris Childs added a layup to make it 75·69. 
· ,, .· {\Toronto Raptors 91 Philadelphia 76ers 87 

TORONTO 
Oliver Miller got loose for a go-ahead layup with 3.5 sec­onds left and the Toronto Raptors tied a team record with their third straight win Monday tlight, 91·87 over.the Philadelphia 76ers. ···.·.·. 
Miller, who scored nine point~.t;rilade a layup with 21 secorids...remaining that tied it 
Kat 87;~ 
, Marcus Camby then lofted ·an inbound,~ pass.?ver Deri"ick ..Pulen;tl}l);7$. reach. and.. into" ~pe
~ hadds 4fiMiller,,who had'tt.n ~~~>:-~h9~[qr. tbe lead. 
·· :-~:;·.::.:~...:-.-=::.'.-·=:=·:~~'/:_:::.:;::~;);tJ~/1&NWt:=::= 


US 31 NORTH 273-3890 
Hours: 

Delivery 
'Tilll AM 273-3890 Sun-Thurs Lunch and 'Till 2 AM Fri 
and Sat

Regular Hours Lunch ll-2 
On Tuesdays and Thursdays 
A $12.00PiZ&I Witb Any! .Toppings For Only$7.00·. 
273--3890 
~~STILL THE BEST" 
esc
. . 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
'•
. 

A-' ;_ ~·<> wau so;:e,. ·-..,----~---~-___....,..._...,...,.,.,......_.._____ ------~--------------------~-----­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
-\. 
• MEN's SWIMMING 

Notre Dame claims revenge 
ByMATTYUNG 
Sports writer 
Revenge is sweet, and the Irish had a craving for sugar when they faced Western Kentucky on Saturday. Western Kentucky dished out two painful defeats to Notre Dame in their last two meetings, including a win on the final relay of last year's meet; however, this year bucked the trend. 
After Christmas break and productive training at Auburn, Notre Dame's men's swimming and diving team made a strong 1998 debut, avenging the defeats and winning nine of 13 events in a lopsided 137-94 victory over the Hilltoppers. The win moved the Irish to 6-1 on the season and pro­vided the team an opportunity to readjust to rac­ing conditions. 
Sophomore Herb Huesman showed brilliance and set a school record in the one-meter diving and won both the one-and three-meter diving events to lead the Irish. Huesman's record perfor­

' 
mance of 335.6 destroyed Sean Hyer's 1993 

record of 314.4. Junior Scott Zumbach won the 200 butterfly and the 200 individual medley to pace the Irish swimmers. 
Sophomore John Lubker showed speed and endurance en route to his 500 freestyle victory. Mike Doyle, Vince Kuna, and Ron Royer finished one-two-three in the 50 freestyle, and James Scott-Browne, John Lubker and Grant Burral per­formed the same feat in the 1,000 freestyle to help Notre Dame build a sizable lead. 
While the Irish had many first places, the team's depth emerged as a key in the victory and will prove valuable in the future meets. This Friday the team travels to Bowling Green for some high octane racing against a powerful oppo­nent. 
With only four meets before the Big East Championships in Pittsburgh, and such success thus far, the Irish and head coach Tim Welsh are excited about their possibilites in the tournament, but have vowed not to look too far ahead and to take it one meet at a time . 
• HOCKEY 

Wolverines hope to bounce back 
By SHARAT RAJU Michigan Daily (U. Michigan) 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
For weeks, the hockey show­down between No. 4 Michigan and No. 7 Miami was highly regarded as a test for each team. 
If that is indeed the case, then Michigan is going to have to do some more studying. 
The first-place Wolverines (14-4-1 CCHA, 20-6-1 overall) were swept by RedHawks {12-5­2. 17-5-2). Miami won 4-3 on Saturday and 3-1 on Sunday at Groggin Ice Arena. 
"We battled hard and it feels like we should have came out of here with more than no points on the weekend," Michigan right wing Bill Muckalt said. "But you have weekends like that and it's better now than later." 
The situation appeared out of hand for the Wolverines after seven minutes into the third period in Saturday's game. The RedHawks went up 3-1 and quickly made it 4-1 after Miami right wing Marc Trapper and left wing Adam Copeland each scored within 20 seconds of each other. 
"We tried keep the puck on the wall against them and take away their transition game," Miami coach Mark Mazzoleni said. 
The Wolverines played strong defense for the remainder of the period. At 13:48, Michigan freshman Josh Langfeld blasted a shot from the left slot past Miami goaltender Trevor Prior, cutting Miami's lead to two goals. 

With 58 seconds left to play in the game, the Wolverines made it really interesting. Michigan goaltender Marty Turco was pulled to give the Wolverines an extra skater. Gregg Crozier skated onto the ice, took a pass from captain Matt Herr from just beyond the left faceoff dot, and scored top shelf on Prior. 
"Coming back from behind on the road is tough," Michigan coach Red Berenson said. "And we finally did come from behind but it was too little, too late." 
Alex Kotlowitz ­
"Breaking the Silence: 

Race and Poverry in America..  e Student Government  
Wednesday, January 28  
101 DeBartolo Hall  

Doors open at 3:30 p.m., lecture begins at 4:00 p.m. Lecture will be followed by Q& A and open reception Charitable donations encouraged 
h.t!on'on 

on sa.turd!ttV. .n'\,,m;t-:•1 c.l<L·,.i.i.:::..:t..~.·~•:,','M·'·''l., ,.. (.JWDhilh,ffSiti' Tlrto and . from· · ' RecSports ,, ,30 p.m., starting Jari,29.. Downhill Ski trip ,to Sw 
mus~,,,register.in adv~p.ce 6;;V!tlleyon Fri~~Y.,,,Jan. 30. The Sports and the,fee is '/buses will Jeave'tbe Library . . . Ad~monstration will be Circle at 5 p.m. and return to at 6;~0p.m.}"oJ1 Tuesday, campus Jltapproxhnately 11 
• bl R.oc.kn.~ ,~Ill; ~l~· .Jl,1pl.. Jhe ,.f~,~t for, ttlose, nee~.~, [ ..cJ:ut:•,·, ""~;z ..1 (9rinf~Fillll:.~ipt1~ F • . ··.· i~g .·to renf~kis is $2~t,,and for .·~ RecSpbrts<..Viltbe ' diose who will bring their own .1ng Beginner and sk!s. the co~tJ.s$19.· All par­Ball~t6Botltare UC.ipant!?,,,p11Jst register in 
serne~neJt'"Icmg classes with a advance afRecSports on or of $35. Classes will be held before Wednesday, Jan. 28. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

Actors fro111 tl1e Loll(lOJl Stag·e AMidsummer Night's Dream 
by  William  Shakespeare  
Thursday. February 5....................... 7:30 pm  Saturday Matinee. February 7........ 2:30 pm  
Friday. February 6 ............................. 7:30 pm  Saturday. February 7  . . ........ 7:30 pm  

Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office MasterCard and V1sa orders call 631-8128. 
The residency of Actors from the London Stage 1s sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series 
Lecture sponsored by: Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts Core Department American Studies Department 

Seven Years in Tibet  
l I I  January 29, 30 & 31 Thursday 10:30 p.m. Friday &Saturday 8:00 &10:30 p.m. Cushing Auditorium • Admission $2 The NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt  
The display will be open in Stepan Center on Friday.  
February 6, 7-9 p.m.. Saturday. February 7, noon-S p.m.,  
and Sunday. February 8, noon-S p.m. (the closing  
ceremony will begin at 4:00 p.m.).  

Ryan White's mother, 
Jeanne White-Ginder · will speak at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium on Thursday, February 5. 


-
~--------~--~---------.--~---------.------------~------------~--~------~~----------~--~--~---.-------------------------~ 
Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
.NBA 
Mourning, Heat fall short, 94-93 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Rookie center Zydrunas llgauskas scored 23 points, including a free throw with 
1.3 seconds left that gave Cleveland a 94-93 victory over Miami on Monday night. 
The win was the third straight for the Cavaliers, who snapped a 10-game losing streak at Miami Arena. 
Trailing 88-81, the Heat ral­lied to tie at 93 on Tim Hardaway's 3-point shot with 
21.4 seconds left. The Cavs then worked for the final shot, and the 7-foot-3 Ilgauskas found himself free on the baseline and drew a foul from Jamal Mashburn. 
llgauskas hit the first free throw and missed the second. Miami couldn't get a shot off, however, as Dan Majerle's inbounds pass was deflected as time expired. 
Reserve center Vitaly Potapenko had 18 points and Wesley Person added 16 for Cleveland. 
Hardaway led the Heat with 33 points, while Alonzo Mourning had 23. 
With Miami trailing 88-86, Mourning missed a pair of free throws that would have tied the game with 1 :54 left. After getting his own rebound, Mourning twice missed close­range shots. 
Person then scored at the other end to put Cleveland ahead 90-86. 
Hardaway hit a pair of free throws to pull Miami within 92-90 with 53 seconds left. Ilgauskas hit one of two free throws to give Cleveland a 93­90 lead, setting the stage for Hardaway's game-tying shot. 
The Heat missed their first four shots of the game, com­mitted three turnovers and fell behind 8-0. But Miami then scored 12 straight points and took a 36-23 lead after one period. 
Cleveland opened the second quarter with a 14-2 run that featured 12 points by Potapenko, but Miami regained control for a 53-46 halftime lead. 
The third quarter belonged 

* Llff/01£,?~ 
Weight Management 'Program 
~~ C.a\oric. Monitoring .lf:.lf:'P\1~~ic..a\ Ac.tivit~ ~~r.ating 'P.atte.rn An.a\~si~ .lf:-~tf.ating Be.h.avior ~tr.ate.gie.~ 

F{Z66 INTfZODULTO{ZY fv166TIN0r Jan. 2-q, 12-:lO, Foster \Zoom, Lafortune Contac.t reDDic.a BrooKDhire, (p"31-?S2q or Jennie ?ni\\ipD (p"31-')q(p') for more information. 
NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 




to Cleveland, which outscored Miami 23-11 to grab a 69-63 lead. The 11 points in the period matched a season-low for the Heat. 
Phoenix Suns 96 Atlanta Hawks 91 
ATLANTA 
Rex Chapman scored 13 of his 26 points in the third quar­ter and Danny Manning got nine of his 19 in the final peri­od as the Phoenix Suns beat the Atlanta Hawks 96-91 Monday night. 
It was the fifth victory in six games for the Suns and the fourth loss in a row for Atlanta, which chopped a 12­point fourth-quarter deficit to 87-86 on Dikembe Mutombo's two free throws with 4:39 remaining. 
But Mutombo missed four free throws in the final four minutes, and the Suns got bas­kets by Steve Nash, Mark Bryant and Manning to keep the lead the rest of the way. 
Steve Smith led the Hawks with 26 points and Mutombo added 20. 
The Hawks had their best start in five games, taking a 30-21 lead in the first quarter. But Nash triggered a Suns' rally by hitting a 15-footer as the period ended. 
Nash opened the second with a 3-pointer to start a 9-2 run that cut was able to build more than a 3-point lead. 
Phoenix broke a 56-56 tie with a 11-2 run keyed by Chapman to take the lead for good. Chapman had six points in the run. 
Nash scored 13 points, while Jason Ki.dd. had 10 points and 13 assists for Phoenix. Tyrone Corbin scored 15 for Atlanta. 
KAT Photo 

Despite the efforts of Alonzo Mourning, the Miami Heat fell last night to the Cleveland Cavaliers, 94-93. 
Carilpus Ministry Events 
• • 




OFFICE OF 

CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 112 Badin Hall 
631-5242 
Basilica Offices 
631-8463 
Web site: 

www.nd.edu./-ministryI 
Tuesday, January 27, 7:00pm 
CM-Badin Hall Office 
Campus Bible Study 
TOPIC: Paul and the Letter to the Ephesians Bring your own Bible, if you need one it will be pro­vided. Fellowship and refreshments will follow the meeting. All are welcome to this INTERFAITH Bible Study. 
Wednesday, January 28, 7:00-8:00 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Contemporary Choir Rehearsal 
Of special interest: 
NDE #50 (Feb. 28-March 1) Sign-up This week at 103 Hesburgh Library EMMAUS 
Discover a new way to be part ofa community to enrich your faith. Stop in to Campus Ministry for infonnation or contact Jim Lies, esc, John or Sylvia Dillon, Kate Barrett orSarah Granger at 6341-5242. 
.CI" 
--·~·· 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 

'Cuse rebounds against Hoyas 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Etan Thomas surpassed his career high in the first half, scoring 17 of his 23 points before the break as No. 20 Syracuse routed Georgetown 84-66 Monday night. 
Working against an under­manned Hoyas front court, sophomore center Thomas was 8-for-11 from the field and defied his 53 percent free throw percentage by making 7 of 10 from the line as the Orangemen (16-4, 6-3 Big East) broke a two-game losing streak. 
The loss snapped a two­game winning streak for Georgetown (11-7, 4-6), which is danger of finishing with a losing record in Big East play for only the second time in the John Thompson era. 
From the first possession, there was no hiding Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim's offensive strategy: Attack the middle early and often against a Hoyas team missing injured centers Jahidi White and Ruben Boumtje Boumtje. Thomas scored the Orangemen's first six points, and all but 14 of the team's 45 first half points came on inside baskets or free throws. Syracuse held a 24-13 rebounding edge by halftime, and Hoyas point guard Kenny Brunner, the Big East assists leader, had neither an assist nor a point. 
Todd Burgan finished with 21 points for Syracuse, while Boubacar Aw led Georgetown with 15 before fouling out with 
4:32 to play. Brunner scored 10 points with two assists before getting his fifth with 
4:51 remaining. 
A 12-2 run, during which Georgetown missed several inside shots trying to negotiate Thomas, gave Syracuse an 18­9 lead near the midway point of the first half. With Aw ­who had eight straight points over six-plus minutes for the Hoyas providing Georgetown's only scoring threat, the lead grew to 20 at 43-23 just before halftime. 
Georgetown twice cut the lead to 12 in the second half and got Burgan and Maruis Janulis into foul trouble. But Syracuse kept responding with baskets to prevent a big run -Janulis made two big jumpers just before fouling out with 
7:56 to play -and the Hoyas made only 19 of 33 second­half free throws. 
Syracuse, a 63 percent free­throw shooting team coming in, made 34 of 46 (74 percent) from the line. 
No. 11 Princeton 59, College of New Jersey 50 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
Playing its first game in 16 days due to an exam break, a rusty No. 11 Princeton got 16 points from Brian Earl in a 59­50 victory over Division III College of New Jersey on Monday night. 
Princeton (14-1) annually schedules a lower division opponent as a warmup after its annual exam break. It was the first time the Tigers played nearby CNJ (14-2), which is ranked No. 5 in the Dil'ision III coaches' poll. 
Trailing by nine at halftime, CNJ missed its first nine shots after intermission. Earl scored five points in an 8-0 run dur­ing that time to give Princeton a 41-24 lead. An 11-2 burst pulled CNJ within 43-35 with 
8:30 left, but Princeton scored five straight and 12 of the next 14 to open a 55-37 lead with 
2:33 remaining. Joe Amari, a high school teammate of Earl's, led all scorers with 20 points on six­for-t 0 shooting. Gabe Lewullis had 13 points for Princeton, while Jamie Mastaglio and Mitch Henderson had nine apiece. The Lions got 11 points each from Bill Burr and Sean Covington, while Dewey Ferguson had 10 rebounds for the Lions. 

Princeton showed signs of its layoff in the first half as CN.J came out swarming with switching defenses. Neither team scored for the first four minutes. CNJ opened a 9-5 lead and the game was tied 11-11 with 11:30 left before Lewullis' 3-pointer gave Princeton the lead for good with 9:41 remaining. 
The Tigers opened a 28-18 lead before a 6-2 run pulled the Lions within six. Mastaglio drained the Tigers seventh 3­pointer of the half with 1 sec­ond left to open a 33-24 lead for Princeton at intermission. 
GREENVILLE, S.C. 
BJ McKie scored 14 of his 16 points in the first half, includ­ing three of South Carolina's season-high 11 3-pointers, as the 13th-ranked Gamecocks ran past Furman 79-52 Monday night. 
South Carolina (14-3), in the midst of five games in 10 days, hit nine 3-pointers in the first half. The Gamecocks led 44-20 and went on to win for the sixth time in seven games. 
Even South Carolina's sloppy play in the second half -the Gamecocks didn't. seore for more than five minutes after the break -did not help the Paladins (7 -13), who were held to their second-lowest scoring total this season. 

The ObserverfMike Ruma 

Syracuse's Elvir Ovcina, shown here attempting a block against Notre Dame's Pat Garrity, helped the Orangemen route the Hoyas last night. 
Head for the Hills! BfH Appalachia Seminar 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Offers service work through various sites in Appalachia March 7-14, 1998 

• 
Is a one credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as site coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 



INFORMATION SESSION Monday January 26, 1998 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 
j ' 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT PRESIDENTIAL· VICE PRESIDENTIAL 
CvilV~ i-J~vtrt ~f-Nf{~=~Jf0-Tt{~=lV JtttTlJV.G.­
All those interested in running for'98-'99 should plan on attending. 
DATE: WEDNE8DAY~ JAN. ~8 
TIME: ~:®® P.M. 
PLACE: 8TUDENT G®VT ®ffiCE <~ND fL®®R LAFUN) 
APPLICATIONS Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, January 28, 1998 40$ deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) 
FURTHER INFORMATION Sean Frey, Student Co-chair, 4-4911 Ryan Murphy, Student Co-chair, 4-1980 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-9473 Jay Brandenberger, Faculty Advisor, 1-5293 

$~65 'rllclud~ srhus, bd\ 
. . y • .·. ~ . 

lunch, lift ticket, ski 
,,~ ,(t' ' ·. ""''· ''·::··
rental, and f\otel. 
:_:;,____ :. :___"\'· 
Tickets and more ihformatlon at 
\. ~: 
LaFortune Information Desk 
~ 
on Wednesday 



Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 senior player Eric Enloe said. ... 
"Mr. Bowman's a big part of our team." continued from page 20 And like a vital team member, the Bowmans' eyes dance when 
Super fan 
around and without even a dis­
reminiscing match highlights.

cussion the Bowmans were at Just like the game was theirs. 
the Eck Tennis Pavilion, but­
"One match, everything

tressing a lonely team. Those 
depended on this court right

Saturdays became months, then here," Mrs. Bowman said in an years, as they observed timid excited rush as she indicated a 
freshman grow into confident familiar court. seniors. 
Mr. Bowman tapped his wife The team became part of a on the shoulder, raised his eye­

family, and the gray-haired man brows with zeal and pointed to in the stands became a friend. another court. He held up three "There's a line people cross fingers. She knew exactly the from being a fan to a friend," one he meant. Patterson spoke on behalf of his "Over there, a match went team. "And Mr. Bowman 
three sets, three-and-a-half crossed it a long time ago. Mr. hours, right down to the wire." Bowman is not only our 'super Mr. Bowman mumbled to his fan,' he is our super friend." 
wife, and she strained to make The memories the Bowmans 
out his words. Then Mrs. have compiled are thicker than Bowman realized he was talking any scrap book. Every serve has about his favorite match. been their point to gain. Every 
"Last year at the Blue-Graywin, their championship. Every Classic, they played the number 

...

defeat, their pain. 
one team and came in fourth out 

"They've been with us through of 22 teams." Super Fan shook tough losses and have supported 
his head adamantly and thrust 

[0_o!SMC Ballroom Dance Schedule I (Save This schedV\Ie) 
3a~ 27-Cha Cha Feb 3-SwiV\g/3ive Feb. 10-Samba T!Aes1 Feb 17-Waltz Feb. 24-Mambo Ma~. 3-t-lustle M0~ 17-Salsa/MeJ-AeV\9t_,te 
Look For these Special Events! Man, Feb 16-Ballroom Bowling Thurs, Feb 26-Trip to Dan O'Oay's Mon. Mar. 23-Competition Practice-La Fun Ballroom Mar. 24-Review for Competition Sat, Mar. 28-NO's own Intercollegiate Ballroom Dance Competition Thurs, Apr. 16-Country Line Dancing -Laun Ballroom 7:3D-9:30 lues, Apr. 21-End of the year party at Chuck. E. Cheese's 

Classes Are Every Tuesday, 9: 15-1 0:45, 301 Rockne 
Cost: $3 per lesson or $15 per semester ($20 competition-team) 
For more Info, contact Greg at 4-1 817 or Sherstin at 284-51 38 or check our web site at: http://www.nd.edu/-ballroom 
~~~!:~~~~~~~~ human. The voice of a champi­us 100 percent of the time," three fingers in front of her. 
PICK ONE OR MORE 
Januaru 31  -JJ:OO AM  Deadline  -Januaru 29  
Februaru 7 ­ 10:00 AM  Deadline  -Februaru 5  
Februaru 7 -2:00 PM  Deadline  -Februaru 5  

Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports ·$5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 
~,e?-p~ 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

The Irish present Richard Bowman (center) with an plaque for his dedication to Notre Dame tennis. 
"Oh, yeah," she stood correct­fan found out just how much. Bowman made his way to his ed. 'They came in third." Bowman's wiry body, suggest­natural seat in the stands beside He'd never forget it. He was ing that he too was once an agile his wife. there to see it happen. tennis player, stood a little Shortly after, he clapped and After all the years of support straighter at center court. His divvied his gaze equally from 
and love, the Bowmans are now chin jutted a little higher. His court to court like· a father the ones who need the sturdy smile, a bit wider. watching his sons. beams of friendship. It's now Notre Dame's tennis team But one thing seemed to be 
the team's turn to rally around a huddled around their captain missing.suffering friend. fan and honored him for his "His voice used to boom out," "He is a loyal friend who is heart, his courage and his Enloe recalled. "It's tough to going through a phase ... that is friendship. only hear it occasionally now. unquestionably the darkest part "Our team has been blessed But when we do, it definitely
of life," Patterson wrote to the by having a true tennis fan," means a lot, even more now." rest of the squad. "And there is coach Bob Bayliss said with sin­So where was that voice, that no other time more important cerity. "We feel spoiled to have famous groaning pitch? "Here 
than now for good friends to do someone who cares that much. we go ... " all they can for that person and His spirit has carried us." Maybe it wasn't as thunderous to tell him how much they Mr. Bowman relived the mem­as it once was. Perhaps it didn't appreciate him." ories as they presented him with call attention to the old man in 
Saturday afternoon, the avid a poem and picture. Inside the the 'NO' tennis cap like it once frame that read "A Loyal did. But it was there, and his 
Friend," was a photo of the super fan celebrating with his boys after the success at the Classic, his favorite match. Through misty eyes, he read and reread the poem, "Super Fan," Patterson wrote in his honor. 
He slowly walked off the courts, savoring the moment as a crowd cheered, this time for him. 
Puffed with pride, Mr. 
team knew it was. 
Patterson ended his phenome­nal, heart-tugging poem with the line, "No matter if your lips find the words, we hear them, and what they stand for will for­ever echo around us and be repeated." 
For the favorite fan has proven, a cheer speaks loudest when it's uttered by the heart. 
Richard Bowman: super fan, 
' 
loyal friend, extraordinary 


il ! 
I t 
' 1 
l 
! 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NCAA 

Athletes face new opportunities 
academic scholarship can fall up to $1,500 short of the full cost of attending a given uni­versity. If these scholarships showed players all of the money instead of a portion, there would be no need for an athlete to look for a job in the first place. 
If it's broke, it needs to be fixed, not broken further. 
"With all the millions of dol­lars they bring in, I can't understand why kids don't get that kind of stipend," UT head coach Tom Penders said. "I don't think you'll find a coach in the countrv who would be against playe~s getting a full 
~ Bed 'N Breakfast Registry Try the Option 
A "Home Away from Home!" 
FB-Grad-Fr. Or.-JPW 
219-291-7153 
Tuesday, January 27, 1998 

Riley cf~lims award 
Coaches see 
problems with jobs for athletes 
By JEFF MCDONALD Daily Texan (U. Texas-Austin) 
The NCAA recently passed a proposal allowing college ath­letes to hold part-time jobs year-round, reversing a long­held policy prohibiting such a thing. 
Somewhere, Barry Switzer is smiling -and planning a comeback. Just imagine the possibilities for some good old­fashioned cheatin' for Switzer, the man who never met a rule 

~ 
·~ 
he couldn't stretch to the limits. 
So, Mr. Prized Recruit can't decide between State U. and Tiny Tech? Well, Switzer -or someone like him -can just call up Dr. Moneybags, that high-powered school alum, to hook Mr. Recruit up with a spiffy $500-a-week job sharp­ening pencils somewhere. Suddenly, Mr. Recruit is con­vinced. 


What it all amounts to is a de facto cash payment, which, for the moment, is still a no-no in NCAA Land. 
"We're opening a can of worms," Oklahoma basketball coach Kelvin Sampson said in a ~onday teleconference. ''I'm all for rules we can manage. My question is this: Is this going to have an effect on your recruit­ing in certain situations? Then we've created more problems." 
Indeed, there is little to stop an unscrupulous coach from abusing the rule to improve the Program. 


But wait, there's more. All too often with today's athlete, going to school takes a back seat to going to the basket. And now with pursuit of the almighty dollar thrown into the mix. more and more players will avoid class like a bad case of turf to·e. 
That's yet another downside. Kansas State hoops coach Tom Asbury admits. 
"It's great in theory, but it's not workable," he said. "These guys do not have time to be student-athletes and hold down a job. Something's going to suf­fer. There are two things that won't suffer -basketball and their jobs. So what's left to suf­fer? It's going to be their acad­emics." 
In an era when the NCAA investigative team already has to play Dragnet to catch rules violators, the last thing it needs to do is to create a loophole the 
size  of  Michigan's  Robert  
Traylor.  
For  a  better solution the  

NCAA should look to the root of the problem -the fact that an 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman Ruth Riley, from Roann, Ind., has been hon~ 

th-ird con­sec u t lv e week as the Big East rookie of the week. She shared the honor w i t h 
UConn's Svetlana Abrosimova, as she averaged 20.0 points, 
10.5 rebounds, and 2.5 blocks. 
Against Syracuse, Riley regis­tered caree:r-highs of 29 points 
and 13 rebounds, which marked the fifth straight game she had posted a double~double to become the first Irish women's basketball player to record five straight double~dou· bles. She was 13-15 shooting from the field in 32 minutes of play. In the Providence game, Riley scored in double figures for the sixth straight game as she scored 11 points, grabbed eight rebounds and blocked four shots. 
Riley, who has played in all 18 games and started the last 12 contests, has been in double figures in eight games and ha.-; grabbed 10-plus rebounds six times. 


Learn how to teach fitness classes with this 8 week course. 

*Injury Prevention  *CueingTechniques  
*Choreography  *Class Structure  
*Elements of Music  *Exercise TecP,nique  

*Muscle Conditioning 


~~(j~ UP~ Bf(jl~ 1/29, 8:004.~@ l!fC~POI!T~ 
TUf~DAY~, 
.6:30008:30 2/303/31 
Contact Jennie Phillip~ 105965 for more info. 

Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
LL COUNCIL/RECRUITMENT MEETING 
~TUESDAY, Jan. 27th 7:30pm JORDAN AUDITORIUM-COBA 
Find Out What It's All About .... 
INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE 

,; 
REAL WORLD EXPERIENCE 
The World is Waiting 

Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
Puzzle by Stephanie Spadaccini 


Notre Dame Bookstore Tippecanoe Place 
Honker's Hacienda
LATE NIGHT 

Notre Dame Varsi Sho Macri's Doc Pierce's 
·oLYMPICS 
• 


• -4 ··Alii~. Don Pablo's Great Harvest Bread BW-3's 
• Martin's Notre Dame Marketing & Promotions 
Pizza King Colonial Pancake House
Noret Dame GoIf Course 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
ALL R !qHT StELLA! 1 DID IT! I WALk£D A 

1'11L.E tt./ YouR SHOES, AND ($OD HEL.? 11£, BUT I LIK£ 11! 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 



OEPUn' OF COMMON SEN5E 
YOU SCHE.DULEO A 
~E.ETING
E 


0 
FOUR-HOUR 
IJ 
ai 
TO f!NO OUT WI4Y
i 
E 
PEOPLE ARE BEH lNO 
i 
SCHEDULE!
·c: 
)
i 

~~~~:;;:AI~ 
v---.:::..J 
V) 
-~.r-~~~ --Co....;.J·~ 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-+-+---i 10 Cheerleaders' cheers 
12 Director Burton or Robbins f3 Knock out. as with a remote 21 Supermodel Campbell 22 Muslim's destination 25 Outcast 
64 Poi ingredient 65 Artist Matisse 66 Marco Polo 
crossed it 67 Catchall abbr. 68 Like certain 
seals 69 An American, to a Brit 70 Ownership document 71 Gobs • 
DOWN 
1 Elliot. of the Mamas and the Papas 
2Jai­3 Uproar 4 Men's room sign 5 "Mourning 
Becomes Electra" playwright 
6 Customs officer's concern 7 Opposite of rich a Knight's protection 9 High-hats 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Way 10 go Aries, at long last all that hard work is pay­ing off. Make sure to make time to give yourself a giant pat on the back, and plan a vacation. just be sure to take someone special with you. Taurus: Make the most of what you've got Taurus, and don't be afraid to rise to the occa­sion. You should make time for close friends today, it's not always good to be a hermit. Gemini: Your cup is overflow­ing today, and the Stars are shining happily upon you.
MIKE PETERS 
Take your best pal out for a day of play, and enjoy the moment well you can. A good day for a train ride. Cancer: Take advantage of your current fiery feelings but putting a little energy into love. See just how creative you can be, and you will be over­whelmed by the responses. Today you could even place a successful personal ad. Leo: Don't let anything hold you back Leo. Remember: you have all the power of the Fire, the Sun, and the strength of the Lion. Your social prowess is at an all time high, so organize a wild, spontaneous gathering. Virgo: Don't get on your high
" NO, LOOK AT THE.

" 

horse today Virgo, too many people are listening. It's a good
AGt.NDA.! THE FOURTH 
time to be humble, and make a
HOUPt-I5 A DI5CU5StON 
good impression. The fruits 
F\BOUT WH't' MORALt: 
you will reap will be bountiful. Libra: They say that Libras are


26 Go up against 
27Wee 
28 French 
mathematician Blatse 29 87 or 93 at the pump 30 Go on a hunger strike 32 Pond covering 34 "Fudge'" 36 Years, in old Rome 
38 Roseanne's ex 
41 S1nger Reese 
42 Brazilian airline 


0 
'II" 
. <:r 
·­

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and . editors. 
47 Stored, with 58 Concerning "away" 59 Ship's staff 49 Snacks 60 Joshes 
Join 

53 Use Rollerblades 61 First Chief 55 Pilfer Justice John 56 Lacking strength 62 Red, white and 57 "Dies-" blue team 
The Observer 

(hymn) 63 Writer Ana·ts 
• 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
staff. 

are available by touch-tone phone 
1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute) Annual subscnptions are avatlable for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
the supreme rulers of peace, harmony, and justice. You may well be called to mediate a public debate today, so call upon the powers of Venus for some extra eloquence. Scorpio: Scorpio, the sign ruled by both Mars and Pluto, is a little in an uproar today. You feel like being the life of the party, and why not? just be tasteful in your attention-grab­bing stunts. Sagittarius: Fly solo today Sag, it's a great time to captain your own ship. People around you want your company, but you just want a little space. At times like these, it's okay to say no. Capricorn: You are seriously in need of a little love, romance, candlelight and fine food. If no one is around to provide it for you, don't be afraid to treat yourself. Sometimes the best company truly is your own. Aquarius: Since the Moon is currently in your sign, it's cer­tainly a good time to howl. Make the most of your natural­ly gregarious nature today and you will be sure to get what you want. Pisces: You're under the influ­ence of the Water Bearer and the element of Air. It's not as obvious as it sounds to suggest you should take a boat ride. 
Today's a great time for roman­tic encounters on the high seas. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Freight 6 Watering holes 
10 "Puttin' on the -"(Berlin classic) 
14 Completely foreign 15 Early part of the day 
16 "Toreador Song," e.g., in "Carmen" 
11 River to the 
Rhone 1Bitalian man 19 Rope material 20 Parlors 23 Metal refuse 24 Hwy. 25 Stovetop item 28 Mailing ctrs. 31 "Damn 
Yankees" temptress 
33 Predicament 35 Official proceedings 37 Cartoonist Gross 39 -diem (seize 
the day) 40 Applause, plus 43 Chili con­44Vascoda­45 Back talk 46 Where some 
shoes are made 48 Bring home the 
bacon 50 "Yo!" 51 Martial arts 
expert Bruce 52 --Cruces, 
N.M. 
54 Spanish rivers 56 Cane 61 Graduation 
month 



·~---~------~-----....... 

SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, January 27, 1998 
'I 
II 
1/ \ 
II I' 
,, 
i\ 
:' 
• fENCING 

Irish cap weekend sweep 
Notre Dame 
opens up season 
on high note 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Spons Writer 
The sweeping of league pow­erhouses in a team's first sea­son matchup can give it the confidence necessary to propel it through the rest of its sched­ule. The fencing team did just that, beginning the NCAA spring season this Sunday defeating St. John's, Stanford, and Rutgers. 
"[The tournament] was a 

. 
i 
• TENNIS 

I 
I ;j' I 
• I 
'! 
' , 
matter of us getting our rhythm," said head coach Yves Auriol. "Despite our fine play, it is the beginning of the season, and there's room for improve­ment. 
"But the NCAA race will be between a handful of top teams, and we've already beat two of them [St. John's and Stanford]." 
The biggest room for improvement should come for the men's foil, who lost at the hands of the Red Storm and the Cardinal. The only winning record for the Irish against these teams came from sopho­more Chaz Hayes with a 2-1 record versus St. John's. 
The squad will need to build on teamwork to put them on top again. Said Auriol. "Their strength is as a team. By working together they can be excel­lent." 

The team built its confi­dence for the day on the strength of Luke La Valle's play in sabre. His perfect 9-0 record includ­ed the defeat of last year's NCAA champi­on Keith Smart (St. John's). Epeeists Carl Jackson and Brian Stone continued their consistent per­formances with 7-2 and 5-2 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

With wins over St. John's, Rutgers, and Stanford, the Notre Dame fencing team completed 
its"first weekend of the season on a high note. 

records, respectively. 
Sara Walsh's fine return to fencing in competition assured the women's foil team that last year's second place finisher at the NCAA championships is ready to lead the squad once again. 
Junior Myriah Brown was right behind her, turning in seven wins for the day. 
Fencing 1-3, senior Anne Hoos began the day weak against the Stanford squad, 
placing the Irish behind early. But undefeated four-win marks by both Magda Krol and Nicole Mustilli against the Cardinal picked up the slack. 
The entire squad started slowly, quickly falling behind St. John's. It took an entire team effort to overcome the early deficit and push Notre Dame to the top of the standings. 
"The team has gained confi­dence with the sweep, but the early setbacks will need to be mentioned to the team," Auriol said. "They should not be overly confident. 
"It was surely a team effort," he continued. 'Tm confident now that we will qualify 10 fencers (two for each event) for the NCAA tournament. The question now is whether we will win them." 
The Irish will come closer to that answer thrs weekend as they compete in meets at both Harvard and Brandeis. 

'Super Fan' provides inspiration for Irish netters 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Not even Lou Gehrig's disease has stopped Richard Bowman (right) from being an inspiration to the Notre Dame men's tennis team. 



Hockey 
aJ 
• Bird to coach all-stars 

vs. Michigan, Jan. 30, 7 p.m. 
see page 13
--= 

Swimming and Diving 
·-
riJ •Irish swimmers dominate 

vs. DePauw,
sr'
4.,..­
see page 14Jan. 30, 7:30p.m. 

~ 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
Every practice, every match. He's there. Indoor or outdoor, rain or shine, South Bend or Montgomery, Ala., win or lose. Religiously, he's there. 
He's not a team member's grandfather or a former coach, but for more than a decade, Irish tennis teams have listened for his trademark voice to crescendo above all other cheers. And sure enough, just when they need it most, it comes. 
The frail man spotted with age marks cups his hands and lets out the slow, familiar, dron­ing call. "Here we go ... " He calls them by their nicknames like an old friend would. "Here we go, Sach" or B.P. or Zeno. "Here we go, Irish." 
"You'd always hear that cheer," junior tennis player Brian Patterson said of the man the team has dubbed "super fan." "You'd look up into the stands, and there he'd be just like you knew he would be." 
Although Lou Gehrig's disease is deteriorating his body, Riehard Bowman, as certain as sunrise, still shows up at every one-and-a-half hour practice. Picking up tennis balls, applauding lightning serves or just looking on, smiling. 
The disease has robbed him of his famous, beloved bellow. His words are now merely sounds with little distinction. Talking on the phone is impossible. Saying "I love you" to his wife of more than· 30 years is an obstacle. Even chatting about the weath­er is complicated. 
Nevertheless, even the deadly disease hasn't stop the super fan from cheering or straining to ask how players' parents are or what their classes are like. 
~'It's amazing to me that with all the problems he must be dealing with ... he still has the strength of character to ask how we're doing," Patterson wrote in a letter to his teammates. 
But why should anything change now? This is exactly what Bowman has been doing since he and his wife Yvonne adopted the team in the mid­1980s. 
"We came over to cheer the team and found they didn't have a lot of fans," Mrs. Bowman recalled, speaking for her hus­band as well. "They put a lot of energy into the game and need­
ed support.  Since then, every  
Saturday  afternoon  was  
planned."  

The weekend would roll 
see SUPER FAN/ page 17 
Men's Basketball vs. Villanova, Jan. 28, 7:30p.m. 


Women's Basketball at Villanova, Jan. 28, 7:30p.m. 

.# 



