
¦ Women speak out on their feelings about 
Have a Great Break! 
Wednesday
not being able to hold the highest leadership 
This is the lase issue ofThe Observer for the semes­
roles in the church. 
ter. The next issue will be Wednesday, Jan. 13, 1999. 
DECEMBER 9,
Good luck with finals and enjoy the holiday season.
In Focus • 6-7 
1998 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 65 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ FACULTY SENATE 
Senate votes 'yes' to Big Ten academic resolution 
lly DERFK BETCHER 
i\s~isra111 News Edi rnr 
Big T1rn nwmlmrshi1> f'or Notrn I>anw canrn 01Hl step closer last night when the Faculty Senatt\ rt•t:omnwndnd I.hat thr. Univt!rsity join tlw conform1ce's acadPmic consortium. thr. Conl'(•rP11c1• 011 Institutional Coopnration ICIC:). 
The group voted 25-4 during last night's nwcting to ap11rove a formal resolution advocating the changn. Th<' rnsolution will be s1•nt to Notre Dame's offirnrs aud its Board of Trustnes for Llrnir final considnral.ion. 
"If WP rnuld join the CIC with­011 t joining tlw Big TP11. we would do it lomm-row. WP can't do thal lwcausP lh<' two arc cou­p i1HI," l'Xpiai,wd rommittce chairman <;r(~g Stnrling, tlw rns­olution's sponsor. 
/\!though tnrhnically only an indirt•(·t rnsull. CIC 11wmhlirship n•prPsPnls Noln' Danw J)('rhaps the grPatnst limwl'it to joining llig T<Hl athll'lics and would not orcur without juining ttw ron­l'PrC\llCP. 
Tlrn 12-mmnbnr CIC indudes tlw I I Big Tc•n schools and the 
¦ NEWS ANALYSIS 
GSU president: T.A.'s will not form union, but voice concerns 
By TIM LOGAN As_,i.rant News Ldimr 
flunclrnds of' Uniwrsity of California teach­ing assistants rntL1rtH1CI to work Monday, Pnding a wnek-long strikn over their right to unionize and Pngag.• in collnctive bargaining. 
I .abor disputes such ,L<; this n•llect a grow­ing conrnrn about tlw rolP of graduate stu­dnnt Pmployt\PS at a univPrsity, and while tlwrn is no likt>fihood of' unionization or a strik(! at Notrn Danw in Um near f'uturn, this rrn1cnrn nxisls hen• as 
gross income for lrnalth insurance. Other issues tackled by tho GSU rncently include on-campus housing and day care for gradu­ato sludm1lq with families. 
The focus of the strike in the University of California system was on the right of grad­uate student employees to unionize in order to bntter negotiate standard working condi­tions and compensation. Tho work stoppagn, which is now in a 45-day cooling-off perfod, was widely supported by graduate student organizations across the nation. 
"They arc aiming to 
wPII. accomplish what a lot of "W<' havn a rnally schools have already
'IDON'T SEE [UNIONIZATION]
good working relulion­accomplished through ship with tho c;rad1mtn HAPPENING. I DON'T THINK good working relation­ships," Graham said. The
School ... wp'rp usually GRAD STUDENTS FEEL THE NEED pr1•tty wPII list!'ried lo." right of' graduate studenl<; said (iraduate Studnnt FOR IT.' to unionize was also sup­U11io11 prnsidl'nt ported by the American MaryhPth Craiwm. Association of University who ohsnrvl'd that 
lvfMtYBl:TI! Gt?A"11M Prolessors. Notre Danrn's T./\.'s GI/AD/IA JI:' SJ'l/JJENT UNION P111.::SWENT One major point of' con­
timtion in the strik<' is the 
status of' T.A's as teach­nrs and as slutlcnl,;. Opponcnl'i of unioniza­tion in California fear that tho rnlationship bntween union members and thnir faculty advisers could be strai1rnd. Supportnrs hope to USt\ their collnctivc bargaining strength to codil'y TA rights and responsibilities and prevent exploitation on behalf of those same advisers. 
i\nothnr issue brought up in the debate relates to the loarning experience of gradu­atn student teachers. 
see GSU I page 4 


an· rPlativdy salislit>d. "I don't SO<' (unioniza­tion I hapµrn1i11g. I don't think grad studnnts fol'! thn 1wed l'or it. Tlw frustration and dis­satisfaction lthat nxist in Calif'ornial isn't lming voicml lmrn." 
ThPrn are n 11umlwr of' T.A. concerns which the c:su has 1wgoliated with· the administration in rncnnt ynars, howevur. One main problem has lrncn hmdth insurance 
COSL'i. 
"That's whom a lot of our advocacy and 1H\gotialio11 comes in," Graham said, noting lhat under tlrn curnmt sysl1'm, a T.;\. with a fomily can pay as much us one-third of their University of Chicago. The mflm­bcrs cooperate on research and other academic programs. and the senate report labels th<' CIC Hensily the most impqrtant i utellcictu­a I f'orcn in the Midwest and one of thn most significant in the country." 
i\ report explain­ing the faculty's rea­soning accompanies the rnsolution and its explicit rncommnn­dation that Notre Danw try to join the CIC. 
"Tim basis for the resolution comes from tlw lacaclnmic 

Joining the Big lO's Academic Alliance: The Committee on Institutional Cooperation 
The Faculty Senate Resolution 
Whereas. there are a num.ber of resolµtions of real academic benefits forthe library, graduate students, undergraduate students, faculty, and the universitY,/a,s ~ tyb,ole, by the t>elonging to t.he (:0J11mittee V . '' . ,/'s'on Institutional Cooperation;,f :..lJ!'! ' •. 
.. ·,a ,. .":. • 
~J ""~­

Whereas, the J)nivetsity,ofNotre Da111e, seel<s.tct strengthefr'its · research capabilityin graduate education; '" 
-~-~; ~ .,.'!;~:-. ~~,,,~,i~'.j ~(/:~~;__:: :~~::, ~ . . "' -~~:·~<··..
~l:= _:: t):::_._ 

Whereas,'CCthe poteiltiafacademk liabilities to membership in the. Committee on Jnstitutiqnal Cqopeqitiqn appear relatively small; 
>t +1<'" ~ ·1t'i :..;··., ::; ~ ;\j ;-,-:-:,, .. :-, _,--. • . 
Be it resolved that the Faculty Senate r~c0!31n:!_'1nds to the officers of the University and the Board ofTrustees that we enter into negotiations to hecoine a member of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation. 
The Observer/Mark Higgins 
affairs! committen's altnmpt to look at Urn rnlationship bdwe(m Notrn 
Dame and the members of the CIC," Stflrling said. "We do very well when comparing under­graduate programs. We do not farn well when graduate pro­grams arn considernd." 
(IC allins could share and nnt­

~-----------------------------~ 
work with 'Jotre Dame to improve its academic reputa­tion, supporters argued. For example. one of the most impor­tant crndentials of a research university is membership in the Associatinn ol' American Universities (/\AU). Notre Damn is not a member, all members of 
the CIC arc. 
"It makes an extraordinary difference. [Membership] would certainly affect our academic reputation," Sterling said. 
The Ai\U extends membership by invitation only, and propo­nents of' conforence membership argwid the CIC members could 

ally themselves with Notre 
Dame to lobby t'or its inclusion. 
The report and the debate revealed that the goal of improving Notre Dame's gradu­ate school surfaced as the pri­mary reason to support the move into the CIC. Thn report notod that 15-20 percnnt of all American Ph.D df1grens am conf'crred by CIC members. 
"The grnatest potential bmrn­
lits would be for our graduate 
programs because that's where 
the CIC's strengths are," 
Sterling said. "It gives us an 
opportunity to accelerato 
improving our graduate pro­
grams and research." 
Increasing ties with llrn nation's leading rnsoarch facul­ty and graduate studnnts is another rnason to join the CIC. Sterling continuml. 
"The sustained interaction of 
top faculty would bn healthy in the long run l'or our institution," he said. 
The report also addrnssnd two common objections to Big Ten membership. First, it asserted CIC membership would not 
see BIG TEN / page 4 
Oh Christmas tree, oh Christmas tree 
l 's beginning to look a lot like Christmas. As temperatures drop and a white Christmas seems more lil~ely, holiday decorations like this Christmas tree in LaFortune are beginning to seem less out of place on campus. 
The Observer/Dan Faighrey 
r 
The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, December 9, 1998



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Confident in alcohol policies, BU refuses to sign pact 
BOSTON, Mass. 
Boston University did not join 24 Boston-area colleges and universities in signing a pact Monday to establish new guidelines for combating under­age drinking on campus. 
Though BU administrators played a major role in drafting the agreement, Dean of Students Herb Hoss said it would be hypocritical to sign on to it because the university's drinking guidelines are already more compre­hensive than the terms outlined in the pact. 
"The bottom line is that the stan­dards are still less than what we have on campus," Ross said. 
The 12-page agreement, which was signed by Harvard University, Boston College, Northeastern University and the Massachusetts Jnstitute of Technology, among others, will increase campus alcohol education, crack down on fraternity keg parties and ban the delivery of alcohol to flrst-year residence halls -policies administrators say arc already being exceeded at BU. 

University officials nonetheless applauded the deal as an important flrst step in eliminating college binge drinking and its often tragic conse­quences. 
"We fully support and applaud the efforts of these schools to address this issue and move in the direction that they are," said BU spokesman Colin Riley. 
Cecilia Calvo of the Boston 

¦ 0UKE UNIVERSITY Students speak up about racist website 
DURHAM, N.C. 

For a week, sexually explicit messages were exchanged over the web site's Vent feature, many of which targeted specific members of the black community. After a series of offensive comments were posted on an online Duke commu­nity forum, some black students are seeking a way to address the anger and pain these messages caused. Nearly 100 students attended a forum Sunday night about the issue that was sponsored by Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc., Sigma Gamma Rho Fraternity, Inc., and the Black Women's Collective. The forum followed more than a week of postings to the now-closed Vent feature of DevilNet-a web site affil­iated with The Chronicle which disparaged several black students by name and included several hundred less specific but similarly vicious comments. After a list of the "Top 20 Brown-Skinned Fresh" was posted to the Vent Nov. 25, the commentary elicited follow-up lists and obscene comments. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of fLORIOA Audit targets student government 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

A five-month investigation prompted by faxes accus­
ing Student Government officials of making illegal busi­
ness deals has opened the eyes of some UF administra­
tors who now say SG needs to improve how it does busi­
ness. In early May, Vice President of Student Affairs Art 
Sandeen asked the Inspector General's Office -UF's 
internal auditing office -to evaluate SG organizations' 
purchasing process. He said he wanted to know if SG 
organizations were following the proper procedures for 
buying services from off-campus vend.Jrs. The request 
came after he received two anonymous faxes suggesting 
local businessman and publisher Marc Meisel was trying 
to monopolize SG business and advertising. "I want to 
make sure what (SG) is doing is in accordance with the 
law," Sandeen said in mid-September, four months 
before the investigation was finished. 
Coalition, an advocacy group that helped draft the pact, said she was not disappointed BU did not sign, adding that she hoped the university will con­tinue to offer support and make rec­ommendations to the committee. 
The agreement, which Northeastern President Richard Freeland called the most comprehen­sive effort of its kind in the country, is the result of three years of discussion by state officials, law enforcement officers and school administrators about ways to effectively combat the growing popularity of binge drinking on campus. 
The problem was highlighted last year by the death of MIT freshman Scott Krueger, a freshman pledge who drank himself to death during a Phi Gamma Delta fraternity party. 
A 1997 sludy conducted by the Harvard School of Public l lcalth found that 43 percent of college students were binge drinkers. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF M!CHIGAN Student's death still an open case 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Investigators Monday submitted a final report into the death of first-year student Courtney Cantor, who died Oct. 16 after falling from her sixth-floor window. The Washtenaw County Prosecutor's Office will look at the Department of Public Safety and Ann Arbor Police Department investigation report to decide whether criminal charges should be filed. Although the case is closed to fur­ther investigation after the report is sent to the prosecuting attorney's office, DPS spokesperson Elizabeth Hall said, "Technically the case is still open." Keeping the case open will prevent any information from being released to the pub­lic, and allow the prosecuting attorney to review the facts of the case. Prosecuting attorney Joseph Burke said he and one other person will review the report. "We will make a deter­mination if criminal charges will be filed against anyone who may have committed a crime," Burke said. 
¦ TEXAS A&M Convicted sexual assaulter is executed 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Daniel Lee Corwin, the Temple man executed Monday 
night in Huntsville, was apprehended as a result of informa­
tion provided by the College Station and Texas A&M 
University police departments, Bob Wiatt, director of 
University Police Department, said. Corwin, for three 1987 
murders appealed the execution, but it was denied by the 
Texas Supreme Court. Corwin was also serving a 99-year 
prison sentence for the 1988 aggravated sexual assault and 
attempted capital murder of an A&M student. Wiatt said the 
21-year-old A&M student was getting into her suburban at 
12:30 p.m. on Oct. 20, 1988 when Corwin approached her from behind, shoved her into the passenger's seat of her vehicle, put a knife to her side and threatened her. He drove her to Lick Creek Park in College Station where he sexually assaulted her, tied her to a tree, slashed and punctured her throat, and then abandoned her vehicle. 

¦ SOUTH BENO WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
National weather

AccuWea1her"'forecas1 for daytime condi1ions and high lemperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 9. 


Wedn~sdayi)­Thur~day 
~'; Friday 

Saturpay 
..a...&. .......... 
C 1998 AceuWeather. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pre•sur•

Sund~y·· ~ :3'4./7, 'ZS· ~ 
® © m . c::J BJ rn [ill:! () ~ ff~ 

~;'"\\'' ·---_/ '\~("-...,, ' .. / . . . . High low Showen Rain. T-atorma Flurrle11 Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoc,aled Press 

("' 


Aspen 17 -13 Fargo 32 11 NY 50 36 Baltimore 53 32 Hartford 45 25 Oakland 59 43 Boston 44 32 Maui 75 67 Seattle 48 40 Columbus 48 27 Newark 52 35 Wichita 46 22 

~-~~&.1~~ i) ~ cQ. 
~:e;s T-~t~,:~ Rain ;;;~: -~~~: Pt. Cloudy
~~-=-Sunny Cloudy 
V,a Assocu,red Press Grsoh,csNet 


Wednesday, December 9, 1998 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
¦ STUDENT SENATE

Have something to say? 
Student club funding faces debate 
Use The Obserller classifieds. 
.,_,,__..Of yot./l"'e making 
a list C\nd checking it twice, \!ou I l"e 90V\V\C\ fiV\d cn~t ho¼' nice WilliL-,msbiAl"!=J 011"\ the Lake 1s,
-... 
. Gas Utilities Paid 
. Pets Welcome 
. Student Discounts 

ByTIM LOGAN 
Assisram News Editor 
A controversial proposal ehunging the nature of Student Union club funding will come up l'nr debatP at tonight's Student Senate meeting, with fierce debate expected on both sirfos ol' the issue. 
The proposal, written by Club Coordinator Hyan Harding, would establish a constitutional measurn guaran­
teoin g the Club Coordination Council (CCC) 39 percent of Student Union funds fur allocation lo student dubs aqd orga­nizations. It would also change the timing of that allocation rrom the end of spring scmcstor to late March so that the CCC has more time to divide up runds betwe.en tlrn its orga­
nizations.
. Spacious 1, 2 & 3 Bedroom Floorplans 
"This would really benP.!"it 
. Maintenance Free Living 
us," Harding said. "The way wn allocate now is /lawed ­
. Cozy Fireplace 

it's a very quick process and it's not fair to the people we serve."
This h.oliclciy seasoV\1 
The proposal would also lead to an increase in funding for thll ccc:. The 39 percent is 
Moke }:'OIJ\I" wishes come 11-'IJ\e 
n+ Willirnnsl:n-1f"9, 
three percent more than they received this year, and this increase would be cnnstilution­
Williamsburg On the Lake . ally mandated -thus decreas­256-0237 1 
ing the amount of money avail­able for other programming
302 Village Drive @ 
TDD: 1-800-326-9193 ext.724 
Special to The Observer 
A collection of works by the American photographer Fritz 
NOTRE DAME SECURITY/POLICE DEPARTMENT 
PEACJ:.; UN EARTH and PE'ACE OF MIND TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
I. Winter Bicycle Storage-Notre Dame Stadium 

Thursday, December 10 & J<'riday, December II: 9 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
Bnng your bicycle to Gate D ofthe Notre Dame St.ad.mm. NDSP employees will register your bicycle (at no cost) and store 1t, rn a locked room. Students can reclaim their bicycles any time, or at the end ofthefrozen tundra season. 
2. D2 Lot "Lock UP" 

The D2 Student Parking Lots will again be locked during the Christmas Break (trom Saturday, December IY at 5:OU p.m., until Sunday, January I 0, I 999, at 9:00 a.rn.). This lot will receive "Special Attention" from the NDSP during the break. 
Please take all items ofvalue out of the vehicle, close the windows securely, and lock your vehlcle. Notbmi: of Value should be left in plain YJew. 
Lt you would like to reclaim your vehicle during the 02 Lot "Lock Up", 
pbOne campus ~ecunty (o.H-,,,.,). 

We WW release veructes to persons with fJl uver identification. If you have any questions, please call Campus Secunty ( 631­.,:,-':i ). J.1 you ever note any susp1c1ous acttVIty or an emergency s1tuatton, call YI I vro31-5555. 
j, l.:1tra Vigilance is needed 

t.acll year we expenence an mcrease in thefts Just before vacation breaks, c;;specialJy from library study areas and the dtru.ng halls. Maintain extra Yl~lant;c uu your lap tops, book bags, purses, portmanteaux and other accouterment, etc . Let's harden our targets of opportunity, sa l:ight-fingered thieves will have to work au.east as .llarct to steal our thlllgs as we have worked to earn them. 
11 you have any questlons about ott-carnpus secunty 1ssues, please cau Cappy Gagnon (63 I-K343) 
Have a Safe and Happy Holiday Season! Go Jrisb, Heat YeUow Jackets! 
groups. 
"This is definitely going to have an impact on the Student Union Board," said SUB board manager Byan Stecz. ''We would lose a lot of money next year. If !the CCC] rccBiv11s it there will be less moncv for other groups to draw l'rom~" 
I-larding sees the matter dif­ferently, noting that the CCC's total funding for 1998-99, including the $17,000 allocatod for the move to its new ollico, 
,Jr's A VERY TOUGH 1ssuE ••• No 
MATIER WHAT WE DECIDE, SOMEONE WILL BE UNHAPPY.' 
BRIAN O'DoNOGJfUH SiiN/\Tli 0VE/lSIG/1T C0MMl7TE'h C/1/\m 
is 38 percent of the Student Union budgnt. The iucroase would not Le substantially morn than that, ho claims. 
''H's a shift in the budget of less than one percent," he said. "It's verv minimal." 
Currently, clubs and organi­zations are guaranteed $198,000 in funding, which is less than they received this year. 
Under this proposal, they would be guarantend $226,000, a $28,000 increase 
over their current guarantee. 
The plan is opposnd by many members or the Student Union Execulivo Cabinnt, a group of leaders of SUB, the II all Presidents Council and class ollices, among others. 
The Financial Managnment Board, which approves all bud­get allocations, was unable to reach a derision on the mattnr, voting 4-4 011 tlrn topic last week. It is unclHa.r which way the Sonato will vote on the 
amnndment. 
Ilowevnr. an alternate proposal has been drartnd by the Senatn Oversight committee which will likdy be considered al. tonight's nrnnting. 
This proposal would docrease tho guaranLnod minimum and chango the 
dale for the allocations. This compromise will ineroasn club funding and 
will enable nxpnri<mcnd ouLgo­ing senators to revinw thn bud­geting process, instead of hav­ing new mnmbnrs mako thnse compicatod decisions so early in their terms. 
Ultimately, however, even this compromise may leave some members of the Student Union unsatisfied. 
"It's a very tough issue," said Senate Oversight commitlne chair Brian ()'Donoghue. "No matter what we decide, some­one will be unhappy." 

£01.JAL HOOSINC 
OPl'Ol!TUNrrY
Mishawaka, IN 


Snite plans Kaeser photo exhibit 
Kaeser, compiled by Stephen Moriarty, curator of photog­raphy al Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art, has benn published by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
The collection, entitled "Fritz Kaeser: A Life in Photography," featurns 80 representative photographs drawn from a prolific and variegated artistic career which spanned more than a half century. The pho­tographs will be on view in the Snite Museum during an exhibition from Jan. 15­
March 14. 
Born in Greenville, Ill., KaHser studied at thn Univcrsitins of Illinois and Wisconsin and at tho Art Institute of" Chicago before opening a camera slorn and studio in Madison, Wis., in 1933. That same year ho married Mildred Tangen, a dance student at the University of Wisconsin, who introduced him to the world of lheperforming arts and helped him develop a reputa­tion as a photographer of dancers. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 


MESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
B:00 p.m. 
Thursday, December 10, 1998 · Friday, December 11, 1998 
Washington Hall 
Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students & Seniors Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128. 

Happy 19th Birthday Andrew 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 9, 1998 
Big Ten 
continued from page 1 
regionalize Notre Dame and it pointed to Northwestern University and the University of Chicago as counterexamples. 
"The greatest potential liabili­ty of joining the CIC is the possi­ble loss of our identity as an independent, national universi­ty," the report said. "Would join­ing the CIC identify us as a Midwest university? We do not believe so." 
The report also addressed the concern that Notre Dame's reli­gious history would be adversely impacted by Big Ten member­ship. 
"The other major issue is whether membership in the CIC would affect the Catholic identi­ty of Notre Dame. We do not see how it would in a direct way," the report said. 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
• The student affairs commit­tee has chosen to formally oppose the two-year probation punishment given to the Women Resource Center group by the Office of Student Activities. 
"We've been considering the WRC and we met with (adminis­trators) Joe Cassidy, Ann Firth and Sylvia Dillon," committee chair Ava Preacher told the sen­ate. "ft was an interesting dis­cussion and on the basis of that and our discussion with the WRC's advisor Eileen Kolman and with WRC members, we are drafting a letter to Joe Cassidy asking him to rescind the proba­tion." 

The students may also appeal their probation but are unsure about the procedure, Preacher added. Procedural uncertainties are among the reasons causing the committee's action. 
"On what was the probation based? ... It was not clear what their violation was," Preacher said. 
Another, equally significant reson for the senate committee's request stems from their con­cern about the censorship-like qualities of the WRC's proba­tionary status. Specifically, some committee members have taken exception to the language of Cassidy's probation order. 
"The WHC may not possess or distribute material which direct­ly promotes or is value-neutral on the issue of abortion," Cassidy's May letter ordered. 
"Probation should not involve 
the kind of censorship that 
appears to be involved in the sit­
uation," said professor of 
philosohy Ed Manier. 
• Professor of physics Ikaros Bigi updated the senate on his administrative affairs commit-
student employees at American look into circumstances of this universities, including the tee's unsuccessful attempts to 
GSU 

Universities of Michigan and In a letter that Bigi labeled continued from page 1 
summer's Joe Mourn trial. 
Wisconsin. There are also "arrogant," Pather William 
movPments to unionize in Beauchamp declined an invita­"There's a responsibility by the progress at a number of other tion to meet with the committee university and the faculty mem­schools, including the eight in 
and discuss details of the ber to be mentors to the T.A.," the University of California sys­University's handling of the trial. Graham said. "That's part of the tem. "We are unhappy with the educational experience." The Chronicle of Higher reply," Bigi said. There are currently 13 official­Education and the UCLA Daily ly recognized unions of graduate Bruin contributed to this report. 

Head to 


Burger King® 

for a big WHOPPER® sandwich 
Open until midnight, Mon. • Thurs. Open until 8:00 p.m., Fri. and Sat. 
LaFortune Student Center 
... 
BURGER 

KING

It just tastes better. 
® 

R'!i 
~i13;11d;l:tffi 
The Hammes l\lotre Dame 
Book!itore 
On the Campus 
©1998 The Coca-Cola Company. MSURGE" and Mtully loaded citrus soda" are trademarks ol The Coca-Cola Company. ® COMBOS is a registered trademark of MARS, Inc. 
liREAT !iURliE PRIZE!i 
Name _________________ Address ______________ 
City-------------­
!itate ______ Zip _______ 
Phone q:itn1a1 (Day] _____ {Nlg7rJ______ 
na purcha!IE! nece•-,y
L-------------------------------------­


¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Swiss doctor found guilty 
GENEVA 

/\ !<Pd Cross doctor was l'nunrl guilty Ttwsday in Switwrlancl or supervising thn distribution of l !IV-inliirtod blood products to hnmophiliacs all(I was giv1•n a orw-ynar susp1•1Hl<•d prison s,mtPIH't'. /\ Cmwva r:ourt ruled that Alfrml I laussig, tlw 77-y<'ar-old lhrmnr dirnctor of Uw S\\iss 1:1•11Lral laboratory of' tlwltl'd Cross. put pPopln at risk through his actions in thfl 1980s. and said )11, had iu·tnd out of "pl'id«' and stub­horn111•ss." Tlin ras,· was brnught allPr oflicial romplnints WNP mado hy Pight inf'nct1\cl Swiss lwmophilim:s, !'our or whom havn sincn dine!. l>istrict i\Ltornny lkrnard lkrl.ossu said that as a sdl'ntist llaPssig would havP IH!Pn aware stnrting in 1982 tlHu-1• was a risk blood prod­ucL-; could transmit LIii' /\IDS virus. 
Blackout hits San Francisco 
S/\f\ FHANCISCO 

A dtywiclP blarkout c·ut off power to nnarly a million pt'opl«• today. halting trains. planes and cabl«' !'ars, closing shops and ollices and lmtv­ing 1wdnslrians scrambling. The mess was hlanrnd 011 a rnistakn by electrical workers. "Chaos. rnmpletP chaos," said Hicky Fairley, a security guard trying lo bring order to a down­town slrntit cornnr. Virtually the nntirn city and several suburbs to the south were blacked out. and rwighborhoods wern only gradually coming back on line this afternoon. The out­agn happ1m1!d when a construction crew at a power substation in suburban San Mateo County made a mistake involving a temporary ground, said Gordon Smith. Pacific Gas&. Elt•clric prnsident and chief executive onicer. OLhnr links in th1! grid shut down automatical­ly Lo limil. the damage. he said. 
U.N. intensifies weapon hunt 
BAGHDAD 

U.N. inspection teams launched a series of surprise searches Tuesday for banned Iraqi weapons despite angry asserticrns from Baghdad that the searches amount to harass­rn1•nt. "Wn are undmtaking a very intensive sdwdule." said Caroli1rn Cross. the spokes­woman in Baghdad for the U.N. Special Commission. which oversees the inspections. "We have several learns in town. We need to tnst Iraq's pledge to comply." The official Iraqi News Agency said llrn inspnctors -some using helicopters -made 32 surprise visits. tlw highest since they rnturned to Baghdad last month. Baghdad did not hide its anger as the weapons inspectors speeded up their probe. StatP-run newspapers quoted lhiputy Prinw Minister Tariq Aziz. currently on a visit. Lo Moscow. as saying there was a limit lo Iraq's rnmpliancn. Iraq has been coop­Prating with tlw U.N. inspectors for morn than s,•vcm yliars but has y,it to sec an encl Lo eco­nomic sanctions, Aziz was quoted as saying. 
KAT Photo 

White House counsel Gregory Craig testifies before the House Judiciary Committee during Tuesday's impeachment hearing. 



Clinton defense team gives testimony 
A',SOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton gained precious ground Tuesday in his struggle to avoid impeachment, winning support from one moderate Republican while a pla­toon of White Bouse defenders argued his case before the House Judiciary Committee. 
"As surely as we know that what he did was sinful, we also know it is not impeachable," White House lawyer Gregory Craig told a committee bristling with skeptical Republicans. 
Other witnesses -including some who sat in judgment of Hichard Nixon a quarter-century ago -argued that Clinton's conduct in the Monica Lewinsky affair was no Watergate, and thus not worthy of impeachment. 
Heady by all accounts Lo muscle through at least one article of impeach­ment by week's end. GOP lawmakers bore in with questions relating to alle­gations that Clinton lied under oath about Ms. Lewinsky. 
Hep. Howard Coble. (H-N.C.). noted that Clinton has testified he never touched Ms. Lewinsky in a sexual way, yet she testi!iod to the contrary. 
"Do you have any opinion ... as to who's lying, because it seems inevitable one of those parties has lied?" Coble asked Craig, special counsel to the president. 
"The president ... has testified about that kind of activity, and I accept his word about that," Craig said. He added that "It's an oath-on-oath, he says-she says situation." 
Outside the committee room came the first indication that the White House campaign to build support among GOP moderates might be bear­ing fruit. Congressional sources, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said Republican Rep. Amo Houghton of New York would announce on Wednesday he opposes impeachment and favors censure of the president. 
Houghton is among the moderate Republicans whom the White House and Democrats hope can be persuaded to reject impeachment. The White House scripted its two-day presentation to the Judiciary Committee with that objective in mind. 
Clinton's allies were hoping, particu­larly, that lloughton could show the way to others from New York, includ­ing Heps. Rick Lazio, Ben Gilman, Michael Forbes and Jack Quinn. 
Under the direction or the commit-tee's chairman, Hep. Henry Hyde, the Judiciary Committee's staff has begun drafting articles of impflachment accus­ing Clinton of perjury, obstruction of justice and abuse of power. Committee votes are expected beginning Friday. 
The White flouse defense effort unfolded inside a hearing room that has had its share of history. Constitutional amendments are born inside the ornate chamber. And a quar­ter-century ago, the panel voted to impeach Nixon. 
Nixon, the nation's 37th president. resigned before the full House could vote on whether to impeach him and order a trial in the Senate. 
Clinton has vowed to resist rather than resign, and unlike Nixon at the end of Watergate, he retains strong political support in the public at large and among lawmakers of his own party. 
Outside the crowded committee room. preparations already were under way for a historic vote on tho !louse floor nnxt week. 
Several oflicials, spnaking on condi­tion of anonymity. said Rep. Hay Lallood,(H-111.). was the leading candi­dato to preside over the I louse during the debate. 
• WIUH 


Composite
.(J.32 
Volume: -42.49 729,530,000 
VOLUME LEAOERS 

t'OMPAN\' TH'lt.t'H ~ l'll\Ntit' $1iAIN CBWf 
COMP.\QC"lJMl'lJTIJt ('l'(J -0"'1 -U :!.~IN, 41 ..s.n, IN'rlil.CT't~I' INTl" ~JW1 +1.11:m 120f)()l'Ml{'kO.S(H•il"<>MI' MSl'T I 711 2 .l7~0 1.\1 Ill?!\ 1>1~1.1.COMl'trU.k 1)1-1 I I -111 1mun M621 INPOSEPK lURl1 SH t-+J-1 K1 4\IPi.174: .u 111, CISC'OSYSTl:Mli {'Iii('<) 1147 0,-'7$0 7',1_~12~ ,\T&T CORI' T t-.l-17 +l,:!.~IM.I 67 on NAVANJff l'ORI' NAVU: I(, .it.? ~ ..?:\00 II .12:, AMliM:IL\ UNI.IN!: Ant +o 77 . {_l.(l.lt7~ '){)..\7' OI.OOA.I.INlJSI.TD lil.111 +-lllt.i! +I.UOtlO h..,1, 

Space station moves to higher orbit 
ASSOCIATED PRESS Robert Cabana replied that the boosting procedur<i ··really worked slick." HOUSTON. After the previous night's 7 1/2-hour spac!lwnlk to With the bulk of thtiir construction work behind wire the Za.rya ,ind Unity station modules togeth,~r, the them, Endeavour's astronauts gave the new up-and­astronauts took H easy Tuesday. It was their first break since rocketing into orbit last Friday.
running space station a safe but shaky lift to a higher 01·blt on Tuesdav. Flight i.<mtrollers took up the slack, monitoring all Tho pilots fir;d tho shuttle thrusters to climb tn an r:,ystems aboard the space station. Unity, the American­made side, came to life for the first time in orbit late
altitude of a.bout 248 miles, 5 1/2 miles higher· than before. They'l1 sMr even higher on Friday. Monday after spncewalkers hooked up 40 electrical 
connections.

NASA wants to leu.ve the international space station Th~ llnity connocti..pg chamber was right around thll
i1: as high an orbit ali pu;;siblo~ Spac,craft ,gradually: 
smk beca\lse of the naturallyoccurrlng drag of freezuig point when its heaters kickHd on. The 36-foot ~he atmosphere, and need to be boosted periodically. cylinder should be warm enough by the time the six fhe seven-story, 35-ton station swung a foot back l\[ld shuttle astronauts venture inside on Thursday, said f~rth in Endmwl>ur'S, cargo bay, its. solar wings flap• . .NASA's . lead flight director, Bob Castle. The astro• 
pmg. as the shuttle moved ·highet ,i:nd higher. The .1tauts will spruce up Unity and Zarya, and drop off astronauts kept close watch on the quivering stack dur­clothes fol' the first permanent crew, due to arrive in early 2000. 
ing the 20-minute ride. "Nice Job," Mission Control said. Shuttle commander Unity's fans and computers .also were purring. 

page6 Wednesday, December 9, 1998 

Today 
The Observer looks atRELIGIOUS the opportunities for women to fulfill theirVOCATION & religious callings





n 
cus 
through vocation and

EDUCATION 
lay ministry 

A bi-weeklyfeature from The Observer News Department 
Vocation office helps students explore faith interests 
By RUTH SNELL 
News Writer 
Women in the United States are consid­ering Catholic religious vocations at an older age, according to statistics from the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"The trends are the same as for mar­riage. Women are getting married and making life decisions much later," said Sister Veronique Wiedower, general counselor for Life Development for the order. 
Most women are now in at least their late 20s when they decide to made reli­gious devotion their life's work, whereas women used to enter the convent directly out of high school. Wiedower character­ized the recent trend as a "second career'' move, much like a decision to change jobs later in life. 
"For a long time, religious life wasn't a Lopic that was discussed much. but people are now looking for a deeper prayer life and how to be of service," Wiedower said. 
The number of women considering reli­gious life dropped sharply after Vatican II emphasiznd incrnasPd lay ministry and a stronger female role in the Catholic Church. Prior to the Church summit, only women in religious orders could really be involved in Church organization and pro­gramming. 

The Observer/Beth Mayer The Church of Our Lady of Loretto on Saint Mary's campus is connected to the Holy Cross convents and the site of many of their services. 
It's almost a marketable quantity and more in people's 
ent orders are represented. Finally, specif­ic orders provide more specialized retreats for those looking into their groups. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross hold "Come and See" events, during which inlnresled women visit and work with sisters to understand their religious life more fully. 
"[Usually, women] get to know us ber,ause they know someone in the congre­gation," Wiedower said. "We have the most success with people who know us persrmally. We have one candidate for this year and two interested for next year." 
Women often contact Wiedowor with an interest in religious lil'P rather than a pre­rogative to actually pursue the vocation. In either case, the congregation is willing to provide information. 
However they get their iJ1f'ormalion, when women are seriously intr,rested in religious vocation, Wiedower and other sisters help them make decisions. Prospective sist!~rs begin with the discern­ment process. 
"IThe discernment process let's them] know more about themselves so they can see how they f'it into rnligious lifo," Wiedower said. 
Thn process involves reflecting on. pray­ing about and discussing certain topics, especially relationships and service to the Church."We work at getting to know !the women]," Wiedower said. 
According to Wicdower, interest in spirituality and immediate environment, " she said. Currently, the Sisters of the l-loly Cross have 685 religious life is constantly increasing, and some women The process of entering or investigating n~ligious life members worldwide with most residing in tlrn United have chosen to incorporate roles traditionally held by is long. Women usually contact diocesesan vocational States. Most sisters are between 50 and 90 years old. nuns into their daily lives as laypeople. oifices through a particular parish. Individual diocese Women 20 through 29 years old comprise 011(~ of the 
"Spirituality is much more visible in the media now. then hold retreats for interested women at which differ-larger groups in the order. 

Student prepares to become ·a Holy Cross Sister 
By LISA MAXBAUER 
ln~F0015 Editor 
\Vhen she was 10 years old she wanted to be a doctor. 
Now, 24 year-old Jenny Limisworking in hospice ministry during her candidacy year towards becoming a Sister of the Holy Cross. 
Lim never pictured herself becoming a nun. It was during her undergraduate experience at the University or Texas at Austin that she first "began to feel area~ tug in me to develop my faith life," she said. 
It was also at the University of 
lifestyle," 
Texas that she 'A .., .· .. ..·· Lim said. 
~~~:~~sf~t Holy .. 

~:,~~~:::~N::ro~d~'t ;~ty ~~~ 
Lim is now who I am, involved in her DEEPLY IS IN THE VERY HEART OF ME.' and mv 
second year of a religious vocation program that can take over eight years to complete. 
"Every step is a step of discernment," Lim said. 'Tm real­ly trying to live in the pre·sent." 
This year is focuses. on living tbf;).vows of religious vocation: poverty, chastity and obedience. Lim is also attending one class on the Saint Mary's and Holy Cross campuses, in addition to her hospice ministry. 
Lim feels her decision has been received positively by her family and peers. "My parents are r?ally support-iv~," she said. 'Tm an onlv child .sothat rules out some opportunities for them, butl'm pretty lucky to have parents who want me to be happy, in an ultimate curious a.bo"Q.t her decjsion. 
"People always ask, ·now do you know?'" she said. "I still struggle for the words, but giving your life to God is a mystery so it should be a struggle for words." ... ·. • . ••.. ··. · 
"Ultimately [a religious calling] is not something that can be Sfientifically explained,"s}le continued. "At some level H's not real logic;il, yet the call to love God deeply is in the very heart of me." 
Lim said some people try to point out what she will be giving up by becoming a nun, "Iliketo recognize whatJ'm gain­·irt.g from t h i s 
desire to JENNY LIM love God passionate-VOCATION CANDIDATE' ly are real-
l:y nurtur­ing by my 
time in the program so far," she sald. For Lim, her involvement in hospice ·.·countei;~culturaL" . .•.• for the religious vocations for other 
''It's ntdical in the sense that it's not women. 'me' centered ... [but] for anyone to live "I won't pretend that we'll have this out the gospels is counter-cultural," she big upsurge," Lim said. said. · Sister Veronique Wiedower, the gener­
"We a.re a.II calledto be faithful" and "{ 
would hope we would an nurture that 
personal calling," she added. 
Just as Um does not feel condemned by her unique choic,e. she does not feel ·slighted hy the sexual inequality in the 
Catholic Church. 
"My own personal experience is that 
the Church could bB more inclusive to 
live out the gospelmessage, but I don't 
feel I'm called to abandon the Catholic 
Church because it doesn't reflect that 
inclusive~43ss/ Lim~aid: 
ari~~~ift!/!~~! ~fu.0 
:~~~ 

aware of social justice issues 
that th~ Church. addresses,. 
howevel': i•rnstead it calls 
me td work ln the Church to 
bring about justice." 
Keith Egan. religious stud· 
ies profess9r at Saint Mary's 
was pleased Lim could par• 
ticipate in his "Search for 
God" course this fall. 
w;h; is presently Uvirii;.amongSi§teril of .~,P~ei ... . :~fl':~~Ii;lot .. i;ter'/ :~J~i1;1 .. f . .. .. ''f 
the Holy Cross, a situation that she believes has been a. very nurturing aspect of this pbase, ot'perJour~~y,. Lim 
feels i.t is invaluable to"i':bo in a'.epmrnu;;• nity of people who share yout{ue and support you." •... 
ButLim Will admitJhat people are 
~ymbolize~JusLone ~ttlleben9~~, ~1t.'s "SlleJl'lke.s)h~ future or r(:lally a rar.µcal exp~:rience for llle. l'ro/ her lifoverf seriously.:. and doing things I never expected to," she very modestly, but very scri• said. ously take.s the words of
L.im deeypribes w?rking clo~~ly with Christto~ea.rt,".he ..ijaii;l, dying pe9ple as a cpntempla.five min-Egan calls Lirn;tnin.spira.• istry. "I get more out of serving them tion to the rest of the stu­than they do from my serving,0she said, dents in the class: ''No mat• per'\use ~he is ableto wit ss the terwluit~.ror.us... ·<!fe.g.. oin~ ~resiUert<:pqftlle b $pil'i ·.•.· ·· lo becomfol;Jt ·.·~·· ap'inspira­
'Lim suggrsts th . t:rayal l\nuns iri : tion for [Lim) to Join other popular culture may distor.t p~opl.e'~ women vzho work for the · i.mderstanding of het ljfestyle a:nd inten~' poor and( i$advan 
. ttiat i mqg:uated," ?aid Lim: > e has ·· discover wbat my gif:ts are. r~a.lize~ many pf th~ti. m10.ode1s {},te quit~ , and. pQi. · t4em 'tff t1se. to . in · r:nol'.@, o,jtn~iilt.;,
••·····• get ··.•.···· ..... f' ;·:•::ri 

.'T Regar .. •.· ...·· f the lfilage p .··· . might ,y hen e~pl.oririg :¥ref owh •···· lessedby Sister'$ of the Holy Cross at a service ill ~old of t}l~ religious, l1m des9,tjbes her 
· ~J:u,1J<1e, ..c.i{M~R,r reUgI9µ.s :yQ<;,~jJqn. 
.. :: .. : ' ;:%%,.:.,,...:::::::..,.\':. :\'::=-.',:::: ·;}:{:<.:-:::: \:.;: :. :\:.:·: :/'·:.,,,::,:,,j•tt.c:.: ··?":;:::,,:.,.,., 

al counselor for the Sisters of' the Holy Cross, agreed with Lim. "Although the numbers of people arn fewer. I really believe the quality of people we are get­ting remains high." 
"Jesus never promised quantity, he only chose twelve apostles," Wiedower said. Lim thinks lhal it will continue to bo a positivll experience for thoso who enter. the vocation and for all those their work touches. "I'll be around and the women who will be joining after me will be around," Lim said. 

•••·.·••··.,. . ..l.. .·. Pho10.•..~~11..·!1$Y byJII0!1Yi4/n,.ndi<:fate Jenny um,Jsbeing 

Wednesday, Decemher 9, 1998 
The Observer· l::.:.N--2.....::F~O=---=C=-U-==-.:S=----------------------page 7 



Woman seeks inclusiveness in religious higher education 
By ERICA THESING "I rnally think its crudal for tho 
N,•w~ Wrirn Church to <·ornn to terms with how 
bnth women and nrnn arn in tho 
As lht> roh• ol' lay 111i11is1.Prs conLi11-imagn of Cod and image ol' Christ," 
lll'S to lwcomf' morP important with­Dillon said. "The Church articulates 
in llw Catholic Churd1, lhl' IWl'd for again and again that there am dif­
lav 11w11 and w1111inn with profossion­f'prnnt roles fnr mon and women. 
a i" crndt>ntials is What dofls t.hat mean in tnrms of 
ht:('Oll1i11g lllOl"I' salvation'!" 
signil'irant. Dillon emphasi:w<l that ,thn Church 
at·eording to mt1st oxaminn its position on 
Fa!l!Pr Mark womnn's roles. 
1'011rma11. din•ctor "If the Church doosn't struggle 
of Llw Maslc>r of with thns11 isstrns, il risks becoming 
Divinity program irrnlnvant in tlw lives of, cnrtain, 
al NotrP llanw. women." stw said, explaining that a 
"H's lay ministry loss of' women's support would cre­
l ha t p "o p lP a r 11 ate a domino alToct on Church mem­
going lo give tlwir full-linw rnwrgies lrnrship as wonrnn of'ten s,it a spiri­
to," hf' said. "W1i'rn in tho husirwss tual exarnple for their childrnn. 
of offPrini{ solllf' ml t1calional oppor­Despite the aggravation that some 
tu ui lies lo provido cn~tlentials !'or wonrnn in the program experience, 
llwir millistnrial gifts... Dillon said that it is a worthwhile 
BII t f'o I' SO 1111' 0 f' l h !\ th iI' I.I' I! ll PXpl'ricnce. 
wo11wn in tho progrcrn1. who st.ucly "There's some sadrrnss, and also 
alongsi<in lloly anger and frustra­
Cross st•minarians tion at tlrn Church," 
JH f' p ii r i11 ){ f"o r LhP she said. "But 
pri«•sthood. frus­'IFTHE ,CHURCH DOESN'T we've come this far tration is a common in tho degree pro­
STRUGGLE WITH THESE 
fi>elin!,(. gram and tlwrn is a 
Third-yPar stu-ISSUES, IT RISKS BECOMING real lov1\ of the dt·nl Ilana lli!l011, IRRELEVANT IN THE LIVES OF Church." wlu, is an assistant Poorman noted rr•clor i11 Lewis CERTAIN WOMEN.' thu importance of 
ll1tll, notPd that womnn's involve­SOllll' or the womnn ment with tlrn pro-
DANA D!LWN
PXperi1incn lhis gram. 
MASTl,HS OF /)JVJNrtY SmDf]I/T "They of'l'cr a
f'r11sl.1'1llio11 with 
th1-ir rnl1is in the great perspective 
Ch11r1·h as tlrny on women's issues 
watd1 Illt\11 rnceiv1! the sanrn degrnn, in tlw church," he said. "The·y offer 
thl'II g11 tlll to tlw priest!wod. a lot of Urn same qualitins that both 
"It is a big issw• for nw. l think it's Lim lay nrnn and seminarians do: A 
a hig iss11P !'or a lot of Lim wom1\11. deep love or the Church, a strong 
It's an issut' for some of tlw men as desirn to serve, a dcidication to the 
w1'1l," slw said. "Tlw women in the gospel." 
nH1rst> SI'!\ ours«!lves as very comp1i­Ile emphasized that the talents 
ll•nl leadr\rs. Tlwrn is the qunstion of women bring to the program are a 
'Why not?' Why can't we choose lo rrncessary part of tlrn Church's min­
1rnrs1w Ipriosthood I if that's wh11rn istry. 
w1•r1• callNI"" "I think there's an increasing 
Whill! both Poorman antl Dillon openness to accepting women's girts, 
«'Illphasiznd tlrn vari1ity ol' options nspccially within lay ministry, as an 
availahlt' to wom1m with this degrno. important contribution to the 
inrluding positions in parishes, Church," he said. "l think that tra­
ar1·hdiot'.nsns. youth ministry, cam­jectory is going Lo continue because 
pus ministry, hospital chaplaincy, so many of them are proving to be 
tea1'11ing and din~ct st\rvicn to Urn effective ministers of the Church." 
poor, Dillon notnd lhat the differing Tho Notrn Damn Master of Divinity 
rolPs l'or mPn and wom,•n within Lim program is a thrcrn-ynar program 
t:hurrh raise tlwologil"al questions offering 24 full tuition scholarships 
about tlw ,,quality uf the gm1dprs. to lay pr,rsons. 
Tlw languagn ol' baptism calls for "[The prngram I combines the aca­
radical r>quality and declares 1wPry-demic requirements of a master's in 
01w as an image of' Christ, but in theology with somo professional 
rPality tlrn Church tnachns that trai11in1,;," said Dillon. "They help 
woml'n do not imaginn Christ in tho you form your faith in addition to a 
sanw way that nrnn do, she said. ministerial identity." 
Sisters of the Holy Cross 

--~:. ~/
. 

, . ­
\, 
~ 
Membership profile 
• 
569 members in the U.S. 

• 
60 members in Bangladesh 

• 
21 members in Brazil


.f\ \\ I 

• 17 members in Uganda lll 
.V,Y 
Age distribution 
• 
36 Sisters between ages. 20-29 

• 
98 Sisters between ages. 50-59 • 1 65 Sisters between ages 70-79 • 1 Sister above ·1 00 


Ministry profile 
• 200 volunteering for service ancl prayer 
• 98 working in fields of education 
• 
79 working in health care 

• 
41 working in social work 



The Observer/Both Mayor 

Sisters of the Holy Cross gather together to listen to music. This activity is among those 
Siste'rRoberts is trying to facilitate in the newly decorated convents. 


Roberts anticipates her Golden Jubilee 
something that they aro not," explains 
Roberts.

Holy Cross Sister · The same compassion Hoberts exhib· 
ltod in devastated Haiti over that sixAgnes Anne cele­day period, is mirrored in her daily 
responsibilities at the convent in South 
brates 50 years of Bend. Possessing a degree in nutrition, 
Roberts is in charge of the dietary 
needs of all the sisters and employees
support to her com-· 
in the congregation. Roberts also channeled her energy
munity and the 
into remodeling the living areas of the convent for her fellow Sisters. Her
world 
goal was to create a "homely" environ­
ment for these women who have takenBY JESSICA DELGADO vows of poverty, News Writes-"There is so much of God's boauty 
around us and when we renovated the 
·This summer Sister Agnes Anne. convents I wanted to make sure the Roberts will celebrate her Golden sisttirs hcut every chance possible to Jubileo praising her 50-year commit­enjoy it," explains Roberts. ment to the community's standard of She diligently worked with the crew justice, After graduat-~----~ during the restructure of the halls uti­ing from Sa.int Mary's, 
lizing her compassionate vision. Roberts began a col­Roberts anticipated tho needs of her orful journey through changing community and reflected her her faith. These ideas in tho updated designs. adventures, now She ensured that the numerous existing as pho­Sisters functioning in wheelchairs tographs and sou­could continue to do the many activi­venirs ofpal:lt chal­ties the community offers by installing lenges; stand as con­two more elevators and relocating the stant.reminders of the · Roberts laundry chute to a more accessible positive effects of her area ot' the space. By connecting the vocational life. halls of the buildings with indoor walk­
One of Roberts' most memorable ways she felt the extreme weather experiences occurred while in Haiti in would no longer become a burden lo April 1995. She and eight employees many of her peers. Roberts also creat­of Saint Alphonsus Medical Center ed and decorated more leisure rooms traveled to the Caribbean destination for the sisters to relax with their fami­on a six-day mission. lies. 
"The mission was part of Project Hegardless of where Hoberts is fulfill• Haiti, a program of Saint Alphonsus ing the original mission of.' her congre­which provides desperately needed gation, it is apparent that she strives to ph?,rmaceuticals, equipp:ient and med• ensure that everyone is comfortable. t.cal .c.are to t~~ Hii.itia:n, hospt-.. tals,'' explains Mission maga~ zine, sponsored by the Holy Cross Heahh System. 
It was during this time that Roberts poignantly witnessed human in.justice through the marginallzed people she was sent to aid. 
Roberts and her team traveled to their sister pediatrk hosplial. "a 100-bed Hospice Pere Damien, and tho affiliated o.rpbanag1k home to 400 chil1, dten, '1 repotts•Missior1. 
The. tasks performed by the group included assisting Jp clini­c a I care and medical record consulting, washing laundry and holding babies. "lt all boils down to being properly nour­ished and uDfortunately that is 


page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 9, 1998 
Reception held to Army ROTC aim to help homeless 
By CHRISTINE KRALY who said the absence of the in collecting the pennies for News Writer pennies in circulation will charity is to "make people help make people aware of aware that thern arc homeless

unveil new MIS lab 
Observer Staff Report 
Heprescntatives from Andersen Consulting, Notre Dame faculty and the stu­dent body gathered for a rereption to celebrate the unveiling of a computer lab in the lower level of the Colle--ge of Business Administration for students majoring in Management Information Systems. 
Notre Dame alumni at Andersen Consulting gave the University a $160,000 gift in January for the devel­opment and ongoing opera­tion of the lab. 
The !ah, which will open second semester, will consist of a stand-alone network of 20 computers with a dedi­cated server. The lab will give MIS majors the comput­er support necessary to develop software applica­tions and to test hardware and software configurations in a manner not currentlv possible on the University network. 
Students will be able to gain experience managing clienl/server networks, using grollpware products such as Lotus Notes, accessing a Webserver and secure intranets, and working with alternative network operat­ing systems and server pla­trorrns. 
The Jab will also be used by other students and facul­ty in COBA who have special computing needs, such as in database marketing, and to conduct behavioral research experiments, including the study of human-computer interface and group decision making. 


Cadets in the Army ROTC program at Notre Dame arc taking part in a different kind of march: They are participat­ing in the Million Penny !\larch, an endeavor aimed at making the public aware of Urn homeless problem in the 
U.S. and, more specifically, in the South Bend area. 
"The Million Penny March is the first of many planned activities that will underscore our commitment to this cause," said Sgt. Rufus Jackson, who initiated the program. 
The fundraising program, which has been running since Nov. 7 until Dec. 14, is struc­tured around the collection of pennies in large canisters placed all around campus. Canisters were placed in all the dorms, LaFortune, DeBartolo and Alumni-Senior Club. as well as at Saint Marv's.
"In collecting a million pen­nies, we will not only saturate the public with our canisters, it will also remove a million pennies out of circulation for a few clays," said Jackson, how crucial money is and )1ow dire the homeless situation has become. 
The idea for the fundraiser arose when Jackson and some of his cadets were visiting the Homeless Shelter and the YWCA Women's Abuse center. The group was delivering candy and balloons when they were hit with the severe reali­ty of the homeless problem. Jackson noticed a family standing in the rain and the look of despair on their faces. 
"I was a drill sergeant for two and a half years and l have seen my share of misery and despair, mostly caused by me," said Jackson. "So when I make the statement, that the expression on the [homeless] mother's face surpassed what we consider to be a look of hopeslessness. I say it with all the authority the title of drill sergeant conjures." 
"In response to these events, we will enact a three-tiered plan -Public Awareness, Personal Involvement and Charity Contribution." said Jackson. 
One of Jackson's main goals people out there." 
"America is just not aware of the homeless situation," he said. 
Jackson, who tries to orga­nize two volunteer activities a year, said that other events are being considered, such as visits to senior citizens' homes as well as a center for mental­ly incapacitated people. 
"We feel that while under­standing and compassion are admirable traits," said Jackson, "time and money is what is needed most and while a million pennies is not the answer, it is a step for­ward." 
Jackson hopes his cadets will learn from the volunteer events. He feels that they will "teach them what humility means." 
"Being soldiers and cadets in the United States Army means we took an oath to defnnd this country against all enemies," said Jackson. "Homelnssness and abuse are great n1rnmios of the states and we in Army ROTC have drawn a lino in the dnsert and we attack at dawn." 


e Boston area. sand talents while devel 'ng offers opportunity for 
rd, and a liveable stipen 
tle Sisters of the Assumpti 
· Contact: Volunteer Coordinator/ 214 E.30th St. New York, NY. 10016 (212) 889-4310 email: littlesrs@aol.com 

Web-OPAC Replaces UNLOC in January 1999 
The Online Pubic Access Catalog (OPAC) informally know as UNLOC has been converted to a 
Web-based OPAC. Access to it can be gained by using any Web-browser such as Netscape. Any machine capable of running Netscape 3.0 or Internet Explorer 3.0 (or higher) can access the Libraries' Catalog. If you have any questions as to whether your equipment can run Netscape 3.0, please consult your departmental computer sup­port personnel or the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) Help Desk (631-8111 ). Access to the library catalog can be found at: 
• http://www.nd.edu/~ndlibs (The University Libraries home page) 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibslalephintro.html (Direct access) 
• 

Searching in the new OPAC will be different from searching in UNLOC but because it is Web-based, little need for training is anticipated. However, an introduction to the unique features of the new catalog will help you use it to iLs fullest advantage. Training sessions will be offered through a multitude of opportunities and venues: 
• 
Each day of the week (Monday-Friday) for the first half of the spring semester, training sessions will be offered in Room 222 Hesburgh Library from 10:00­

11:00 a.m. and again at 2:00-3:00 p.m. 

• 
The OIT Computer Education Program 

• 
Subject Librarians and Liaisons to individual departments and Colleges will offer faculty training sessions. 

• 
At peak research times during the academic year, specially hired and trained stu dents will be available to offer individual assistance within the Reference area on the Ist floor of Hes burgh Library. 

• 
Special sessions can be arranged upon request through the Library Instruction Program coordinated by Patrick Hall (telephone: 631-7673) or through any public service desk in the Branch Libraries or Hesburgh Library. 


Wednesday, llecember9, 1998 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
-·. ·--·. ------------------------------------­
Federal judge overturns ban on late-term abortions 
Associated l'ress "license rcv(lcation and heavy term abortion pror.edure, 
fines for performing constitu­known as "intact dilation and 
TRENTON. N.J. tionally permissible abor­extraclion," or D&X. 
A feclnrnl judgu Loday ov11r­tions." In that procedure, which turn(•cl a New Jersey law ban­Thompson's ruling resulted opponents clubbed "partial­ning a controversial lale-term from a four-day civil trial, birth abortion," the doctor nhortion procecturn. which 1mded in early October. pulls the fetus --feet first -­
U.S. District .ludgti Annn Throughoul the trial -partway through the birth Thompson dcclarnd the law heard by Thompson without a canal and punctures Urn skull unconslitutional bBcausn its jury -lawyers argued over with a sharp instrument so the wording was too vague and it the wording of the ban. head can pass through the 
placml "an undue burdnn on a Lawyors for abortion rights cervix. woman's constitutional right advocates maintained the The stage for the trial was lo obtain an abortion." law's language was so sweep­set in June 1997, when state 
Thompson said the law ing and vaguo that it described lawmakers passed a bill ban­thrnalcrrncl both patients and all aborlions. They saw it as a ning "an abortion in which the 
provid(\l'S with "irrnparabltJ thinly vcilecl att!lmpt to ban person performing the abor­injury" lwcaus,i womnn might common abortions. tion partially vaginally delivers be denied access lo "the most The lawyer for New Jersey a living fetus before killing the convHntional and safest abor­legislators, who passed the fetus and completing the deliv­
tiDn procedures" and because ban in 1997. argued the law ery'" prnvidnrs might Im subject to applied only to a specilir. late-The wording sent abol'tion 
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engageme~t Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum. 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary 
rights advocates reeling. Ttrny interpreted the bill to ban any abortions in which tho fetus starts out living, passes through the vagina an<l <lies. 
Tho bill, which does not mention "intact dilation and extraction." did make room for one exception. It allowed tho procedure only if the woman's life was at risk. 
But Gov. Christie Whitman had wanted to allow thfl pro­cedure if the woman's health was at risk -a provision abortion opponents said wou Id render the ban useless. 
Whitman vetoed the mea­sure, and in December l 997 the Legislature overrode the veto. 
The law was then challenged in federal court by Planned Parenthood of Central New Jersey, which provides 900 abortions annually, an<l three doctors who perform abor­tions. 
Soon after, Judge Thompson allowed a temporary restrain­ing order blocking the Lan's enforcement until she reached a decision. 
Whitman decided her administration would not defPnd a law she had opposed. That forced the Legislature to hire its own 
book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler/ Gemologist / Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

attorney. Lawmakers retained Richard 
f. Collier, a Somerset County attorney, known for represent­ing abortion oppon(lnts. 
Du r in g tlrn tr i a I , Co 11 io r argued if a fetus dies while at least partially in tho birth canal, then it is no longer an abortion, it is "infanticide." 


H4Pff BOldD4,.-I 
ftOit\ THI 0B118-V-a 


IT.A.FF. 
LOOBF08 

TBIFmlT IIIUIOPTBI Nl1't tllt\llT• 

OM l4.MV48,.1S. 
SPRING BREAK'99 
HOURS & HOURS OF FREE UIUNKS! Earn 2 FREE Trips & $$$$$! C,mcun,Jamairn, florida, Uarbado,;, 11,thama, LO\ml Prim/11~1 l\lral l'lan l•800•-126•77I0/"111r.sumpl:l\hloun.,com 











088.CO 


We've created awhole new sound experience for your college years. And you'll only find it at wow.bose.com/w2309 
-805£"" 
Better-SOlnd tm:,uf1) resean;h., 
Cl IIMll'-Oapar-,1 


VIEWPOINT 
page IO 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, ]N 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notte Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDrroR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING Eunm, 8USINLSS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
ASSISTANT MA.NAGING fml'OR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .....................Mochelle Krupa AnVERTlSING MANAGER ..... ,, •................ Bryan Lutz Vrnwro1NT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull Ao DESIGN MANAGER ........................ llre;, Huelar SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS...... . ....... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRAroR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pere Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ....................... Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhe independenr nt.-ws:paper puhlished by the studencs of rhe Unive,rsiry or Notre Oame du Lac and Saint Mary'.!. College. lt does nor nccc:i;sarily reflect rhe policies of the admini.!tlr:.ttlon of either in!<.tirution. The news is 
reported a.,; accurardy ..me!. objenivdy as pm'>ible, Um,igned editorials represent the oriinion ofdie m:1joriry of,he 
Ediwr-in~Chief, Managing F.diwr, As1iisr:mr M:rn~ging Editor and dcpanmcn1: cdilors. Comrm:muri~s. letre:rs and 
i,:O[umm prc!tCnt the vicv.s of the ;11nhor$. ilnd nor ncces1-arily chose of The Observc:r. Virwpuint 5pace i~ :available co all 
incmhcrs of the Notre D:m1t"/SAinr Mary's communiry and to itl readers. The free cxpf'C$~ion of varying opinions 
through letters is cnrnuragc-rl. 
Contacting The Observer 
F.diror-in-Chicf 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EdirodAssisr:mr ME 6.31-4541 Adverrising 63 I-6900/8840 Ncw,/Phow G'll-5323 Svsrems 631-8839 Sport:i 631~454.~ F~x 631-6927 Sccne/Saont M.1ry's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. l@nd.edu Dav Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@darvtin.cc.nd.edu 
':.. rrALL ~~ND? mWJ.\4T vov1< ~F/NlllON OF 'NAUG\.TTV' ll?... " 

Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail obsc::rver.ob.sncws. l@nd.edu 1 

We, young people, are idealists. We b1)1icve in things like justice, ethics and moral values. When we mention them, made indignant by people's attitude, 
Gabriel Martinez 

weary-eyed cynics answer: "you can't change the world." That is the cowardly excuse of those not willing to fight for change. Yet young people also have their feet on the ground. We want space to grow as human beings: we look for opportunities to work honestly. We want to be generous with our children and the children they will have, who will Jive far awav in the middle of the next centurv. We \Vant to feed their bodies with good ti.1od, their minds with a good education and their souls with virtues and with truth. 
With that in mind, we want to partic­ipate in the life of our country. We want to be one of those giving employment, one of those who will work productively, and one of those who will serve in public ollice. We want a job in accordance with our human dignity in honest businesses. We want to be one of those politicians who will help build that tomorrow ahout which so much is said and so little is done. We want to do it ourselves: we do not want the alms of papa state. But when we see the child beg for a coin, when we see the father, desperate for lack of a job, when we see the mother who alone fights the good light against the world, we ask: What did the candi­date do, for whom our parents votfld five, 10, 15 years ago? What are our elders doing? 
And, on the other hand, what are the clean old peop.le doing, those who do not 
Not for Sale 
sell their principles'! They did the same thing most young people do: they refused to participate so not to be tainted. Things being what they are, only those who sell themselves will participate when the time comes. But the young of the world, the great majority of the young, are not for sale. The injustices that are everybody's fault and those that are each individ­
ual's fault make the young people (the truly young, not weary-eyed cynics of few years) indig­nant with their voices and their ideas. 
In addition, I call the truly young to be indig­nant with their actions. 1 call them to refuse to be silenced, to refuse to stay still, to participate. For the truly young are not for sale, and will not be tainted if they go armed with Truth and Virtue. And these weapons will fight side by side with Justice and Charity, even if the cynics say, think­ing they insult us, "idealist!" 

Some of the young will respond. Some would rather applaud than boo. Some would rather laugh with Christ than at Him. When they frown in indignation, the best of them respond by kneeling and praying: "Holy Mary, mother of' God, pray for us sinners ..." 
Everlasting Truth cannot be silenced, even by those worst forms of censure that are the watering-down of Truth and apa­thetic per,r-pressure. I have seen people who are not content with a bloodless Christianity, who know that Catholicism is morn than stained-glass and candles. The truly young are the children of God and Mary who will eat their vegetables and the dessert; the young do not pick and choose their beliefs. The young are the light of the world and the salt of' the 
earth, for they are left empty by 
------------a religion of politeness ~ offered by heretics 
·t1 rofessorial ointments. or the young believe in 
somAthing.J>... greater
-r \ than \ them­
selves, not in some­thing tlrny fash­
ioned after their / own image.
/ 

The fear­!-'/ less knight, r7R--+-ff.,-t-/ who did not 
/ waver before / the dragon, knelt before the king: he 

recognized the relation­
ship between them. So do they, fearful and frail human beings, kneel before the Prophet, King and Priest for­ever, who concealed His divinity on the Manger and who conceals even His humanity in the Monstrance. Like the knight, they surrender their weapons to their Lord -liberty, memory, under­standing and will -and from their Lord they receive their knighthood. Clad in the armor of God, girt with truth, dressed in justice, shod wit~ eagerness for the gospel of peace, holding faith as a shield and the Word of God as the sword of the Spirit, and covered with the helmet or salvation, they quench the arrows of the evil one and stand firm on the day of dark. (Thanks, St. Ignatius and St. Paul,) 
The young arc like the Simon the Cyrenian, who understand what the uncharitable voices of half-Truth and worldly compromise do not that with our suffering we can share in the sufforing of Christ and in the redemption of humankind. They are like thti Psalmist, singing: "the law of the Lord is perfect, refreshing the soul" and crying: "Have mercy on me, God, in your goodness ... against you I have sinned, I have done such evil in your sight." They am like the father of the boy with a demon: "l believe, I blllieve, help my unbelief~" And in them I see a young girl, kind and gen­tle, seeking the Truth and sharing it, who said: "l am the handmaid of the Lord," and "Do whatever lie tells you." 
This small band of inconvenient zealots is not for sale, and they will succeed. Whether the administration and tlrn fac­ulty will follow them is another matter altogether. Will they enter into the excit­ing romance of orthodoxy, or will they stay content with their stale formula? I hear.the latest theological or moral atrocity committed by the distinguished and learned faculty [and this I say with­out sarcasm, for they are learned in the matters of this world and in it they have acquired great J'amel, and I cry with indignation to my Mother on the Dome. I sense that the administration prefrirs fame and fortune to Truth boldly pro­claimed and Holiness shamelessly lived, and I wonder if gaining the world is worth losing this University's soul. I see the vitality of the Catholic students, and then I know why I came to Notre Dame. I came to meet the young. 
Gabriel Martinez is a graduate student in the Department ofEconomics. /lb; col­umn appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseroer. 
¦ DOI.H\IESBUIW 
at'AY, l't30fU, A CAJ?E/3R IN BIG-rJMe 8/?.0AJ?Ctlfir­~ S7'An!il(Jl7H ?HeR.Jol­'EiNTA?r3-t ll?N­

I KNOl(J IT£f.JNP5/JOffJY,8UT 
MIK£-HIW!?/.IN0l!J A CAR!zR.­8ReAK£R! YOOCANfi4V6 me 916665T6'10n'a= 71{£ >!W?,BUT 
ITt<ION'rAIRIr WI<. Ml/<£S 
NOTHOT:t SOJIU.~7JIE3-/<,,, 
; CUK ! CL-II<.! ANP a1K.1 a.1K I AGAIN.' C/..IK.I Ci.II<.' 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
;-a1K.' GOOP/
OK4Y,££T5

CI-IK/ 
/Jl!OlieON7D

Ct-lK.' 
SA/ARYct/K/ a?MAN/?5.,,
CL./K/ I//,/ C/.//(_f,:­
' 

¦ Quon: OF THE DAY 
, Jdon't even know what street Canada is on.' 
-Al Capone 




VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, December 9, 1998 -----------------
-----------------------page 11 
¦ CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Rejoicing at the Congressional Sessions End 
While walking my dog, Potamus, to bo a person of high intelligence and around the U.S. Capitol grounds, I intrigrity. Could you help me with a legal­1mcounwred two angels listening to istic problem? I would like to be named Daniel Wtibst1\r debate curr,mt events. the patron saint of beer and wine, but The lirsl angel, a Hr.publican, quietly with college binge drinking, MADD lmnuntnd the facl that the Iloust1 Mothers and the sort, I need to change Judiciary Committnc voted on party lines the wording so that I can soften the title. to expand iL'i impeuchment inquiry to Sort of mislead but not lie. What would inrlncle allegations of campaign financing you suggest?" 

Starr stood quietly for a second then replied, "It could bo called the 'Patron Saint of Beverages and Altar Accrucments' which is technically cor­
ruct but also masks the harshness of the truth as seen by others. While I personal• ly always seek the truth, I consider masked truth to be true if I do, in deed, 
Gary 

Caruso 
know that it is masked. Definitions are important in law." Daniel Webster, ripe for another 
lengthy debate, continued with Starr's abusns. Tim othnr angel, a Democrat, thought by saying, "Definitions are more preforred to daydream about being than important in law, sir. They are the namud the patron saint of beer and wine law. George Mason and Alexander while deferring the political discussion lo Hamillon impeccably defined impeach­tlw eloquent Webster. able offenses. Until this so-called 'judi­
Wr.bster uncharacteristically sided with cial' committee operates with some sem­llarvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz blance of bipartisanship, their appear­who, while testifying beforn the commit­ance will remain repulsive to the Lnn, scolded the Republican majority for American public. Until the so-called 'evi­trivializing the dence' submitted judicial system. rises to the level Dcrshowitz of impeachment, accused the Republican lfopublicans of majority does ignoring th(i spe­more harm to our cial provisions of government than Urn Constitution any imagined for­lhal prnvtmt a sit­eign army." ting pmsident The Republican !'rom criminal angel shook his prosrn:ution dur­head and mum­ing his presiden­bled that it was cy. only holding not going to be a him accountable good week, so he for treason, was going to avoid bribery, high further political crimes and mis­discussions. As he demeanors. glided into the IJmshowitz clouds, the charged, "This Democratic angel cnrnmittee is only rubbed his wings concerned with in delight at the Ikmocratic per­possibility of jury." becoming the 
"I cannot fath­patron saint of his om," bHllownd newly-defined Webster, "that "concoctions and Lhosn blinded by partisan politics choose hodge-podge." He never really had an to ignore the constitutional standard the interest in the impeachment process or f'ornfathers sp,~dficd in no uncertain politics, and was not going to begin now. L11rms. The framers of our nation would Daniel Webster and I watched as Ken not subscribe to the notions espoused in Starr did not clean up after his dog nor 

¦ THE PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 

The Progressive Student Alliance Wishes You A Happy Holiday Season 
Merry Christmas, Hanukkah, Kwanza reaffirm the right to a life of dignity for and Solstice! You may or may not know every human being. us, but we are out here. Were you at -Dave, a.k.a. "FD," wishes that he our non-discrimination rally on the would make it onto the Hight Heason Fieldhouse Mall? You could have met a "Enemies of the State" list. few of us while we were petitioning in -Elizabeth and Jodie wish for the dining halls or in LaFortune. Did we "Bookstore Phil" to have a very splen­see you at the Donahue speak-out? did holiday season. Maybe you have admired some of our -Krista wishes that ND would give posters and chalk ==!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the CSC some new art on various occa-vans and that the 
sions. Maybe not. In PSI\ would find
Kr1·sta 
this season of good-round-trip tickets will the Progressive to London under Student Alliance their trees (or 
would like to extend whatever they
SChOen·1 ng
our best wishes to have) this holiday all of you and to let season. you that we are not -Paul wishes as strange as some for peace, justice of you might suppose. Some of our hob-and non-addictive Mountain Dew. bies are painting, surfing, watching -Julie wishes for a sweat-free cam-football, playing with computers, judo pus through an improved licensing code and throat-singing. We are not a bunch of conduct. of liberal tree-hugging hippie clones -Madolyn wishes that she knew whose sole mission in life is to force our what the "Brown Sauce" in the North beliefs on others, nor are we a left-wing Dining Ball was, and for goodwill guerrilla group waiting until the time is toward all men and women, of course. right to begin a violent revolution and -Aaron wishes not to be attacked in take the dome by force. We may be writing quite so much. more likely to hug a tree than your -We all wish that sexual orientation average "Domer" though. Actually, you would be added to ND's non-discrimi­will lind that we are very open-minded. nation clause. This may come as a surprise to some, but we value diversity as a tool toward These are just the wishes of a few of advancement, being that we are the our members, maybe you have a wish Progressive Student Alliance. Differing to add. We would love to meet you. We opinions are the key to change, and are friendly (for the most part), and we respectful dialogue is the means toward have fun action-packed meetings every positive change. Within our group, Monday at 7 p.m. in 114 members are free to express their own O'Shaughnessy. Come on in, pull up a opinions at all times, and they do. We chair, stay awhile and get to know us. do disagree on some issues, but that Hegardless of political affiliations, or enriches our group. The one thing that lack thereof, all of us in the PSA would we all seem to have in common is our like to wish a happy holiday season desire for justice. Deep down in our lilied with peace and Jove to everyone. guts we all feel that frustrating insa­We hope that you will join us by doing tiable need to change the world for the the same. better. Is this a bad quality? We think not. This is reflected in our holiday Krisla Shoening is a freshman wish list. Well, sort of: enrolled in lhe College ofArts and 
Letters. The PSA 's weekly column usu­-Sophie wishes that the world ally runs on Tuesday. would be a safe place for people. The views expressed in this column 
-Megan's Christmas wish is for are those ofthe author and not neces­other students here (some of the most sarily those of the PSA or The Observer. privileged people in the world) to fight against apathy and ignorance, and 
committee that behavior, in fact, even crimes less than substantial, rise to the rnnslitutional standard of impeachment." 
Tim Republican angel sat motionless during Webster's sp(iech, then thought aloud, "Hepublican committee members such us Georgia's Bob Barr must ceasn Lhcir divisive rlH1lorical phrases like 'real t\moricans,· or Fl()rida's llob McCollum saying 'thosn who look nl this in a rea­sonable way.' By nxpan<ling their probe inl.o Cllmpaign financing, I foar that tlrnir l'ruits will bo tlrn appearance of more partisnnship and less rognrd for the 'real' 1111d 'ruwmnablo' viow of' thc /\m,iric:m puhlic." 
I was nhout to instigate Wubstnr into anothr,r tirade by asking him his opinion of Rep. Barr, when Polamus began chas­ing a stray poodln. Potamus. being hall' I .abrador and half l'it Bull, easily over­powered the poodhi while playing one of their doggy games. However, the poo­dlu's owner took «)xcuµtion to their antics. I le W!L'i the drnnded Independent Counsnl Kmmcth W. Starr. 
walk with a leash. Starr and his poodle strolled along the sidewalk toward ihe !louse chamber, eventually fading into the night. Webster stood speechless, turned to me and remained speechless. It was a moment for the ages. 
Potamus and I continued down the hill toward the reflecting pool. Ile was oblivi­ous of his surroundings except for the majestic trees ahead. I could only think of how tired I too, u politicaljunky, was of the impeachment tiasro being ron• ducted across the street. Just as Nixon's 1974 had faded quickly into history, I ym1rncd for the day when the stake would have long been driven into the heart of the current congressional ses­sion known as tho partisanship of 1998. 
Clary .I. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, wrJrked at the U.S. lfouse of ltepresentatiuesfor eighteen years and is a consultant in Washington. D.C. llis col­umn usually appears every other Friday and his Internet address i.~ lIottline@aol.com. 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDJTOR 


Big Ten in, Leprechaun out? 
.. , Uµst tho\,lght tl,~(J would add my. never doubt the wisdom or thC:1 admln• two centsworth totbe whole Big Ten lstratlon. They are the ones afwr all debate. I am almosnmre that no one who have to sign off on our diplomas. 
has thought about this, but just how Now that being the case. and the fact welcome would are little leprechaun be that my diploma for [owa is safoly at Big Ten schools? The reason why I tucked away, I do not think I would a.skis because back when I was at the want to plu.y at a school that bans our University ofIowa in the early '90s little leprechaun, no matter how simian f.here W~$ $orious,µcbato as to if the ho may look. Maybo the Obsorver universitywould continue to allow · should do a little invtistigative report· mascots basedon ethnicicy or race lng to find out just how welcome our attend Iowa home games. The leprechaun would bti nt all elfwen University administration was so schools of the BIG TEN. adamant about this that one adminis­trator was quoted ln tbe school paper Mark McCarthy as saying that ofcourse this new ban Ph.D. Candidate 
, would, apply to furdµ,is mascot Hilitory Dep.inmenc ·, Boilermaker.re wthe last timeJ D«ember 7, I998 chocked. Boile ak,~ts were not an 
ethic group, but l guess one should 
As I hurricid to loash Polamus, the The views expressed in this column are Democratic 1tngel, oblivious to Starr's those ofthe author and not necessarily idm1lity, glided over to us. "Excuse me those ofThe Observer. sir," said the angul to Starr. "You appear 


Il8 
O 
THE 
page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, December 9, 1998 

Tis the s1mson to dig out all your Christmas tunes and do the whole mistletoe derided that each of' these is a must for stock­and holy thing. l\'ow if you're like me you've rel.ied on your mom's 8-Lracks ing stuffers. Nat King Cole's The Christmas and reel-to-reel recordings of those Christmas songs to get your jollies. But, Song is most well known for the titled song now that you're away from home and wanting to deck the halls and turn that he made famous, but that almost everyone 
your room into your own personal winter wonderland, you're going need to buy else has tried to sing, without success. some Christmas albums. Since I doubt any of you are able to make the kind or com­Cole also has a nicfl combination of' cheeri­mitment it takes to buy the Hanson Christmas album, I will advise you on some clas­ness and warmth in his voice that is very invit­sic albums to invest in so you don't have a. blue Christmas. ing to listeners. Also on the album is one of the 
Now I am not taking away frum any artist that has had tho int<'stinal fortitude to only English nnd l.atin v1irsiuns or "Adeste try and sell a song that countless others have sung before them, but I wanted to Fideles" that smoothly combines both versions. limit my selection to four greats of caroling -Bing Crosby, Johnny Mathis, Nat King Who else could sing "O Tannenbaum," a song Cole and or course, old blue eyes, Frank Sinatra. I will be discussing one album of writton in the Joyous language of German, and each singer in order of my preference from least to most. make it sounds cheery? 
One of thH most popular Christmas albums of Last, but certainly not least is good old Frank all time is good ole ¾nite Christmas by Bing Sinatra who doesn't seem to get the kind of Crosby. Now quitp, frankly, the music on the al.tention he deserves on the radio during album isn't really that good, even with the Christmas. In fact, when you go into most presence of the Andrews Sisters. Some of the music stores you don't even see his album A tracks arc only appealing becausfl of Crosby's Jolly Christmas from Frank Sinatra. Most of' you voice, which oftentimes reminds me of my probably have only heard it when your parents grandfather on Christmas after he has dipped decide to dust it off with their other Christmas his cup in the eggnog one too many times. LPs. The album is v1-1ry high spirited and the 
Crosby isn't one of the most cheery sounding music is quite good. fellas. but his voice does have great nostalgic The first track, "Jingle Bells," is much more appeal; it brings a kid of tho high-priced swinging than other versions that you might Christmas era back to a simpler time when you have heard. The highlight of the album however might actually ride in a one-horse open sleigh. has to be the "Christmas Waltz," which happens You also can't go wrong with classic Christmas to be one of my l'avorite carols. The music 011 
.__ _........_.B.._i..,._n.._g""c·r""o""'s""'b....y""'"".....__ __. tracks like "Christmas in Killarney" (Go HUSH) Mr. Sinatra's album has to b11 tlrn best of' tho and "Mele Kalikimaka." · bunch. In addition, Neil Diamond also is a grnal
White Christmas Next on 
Christmas song singnr that you might want to 
my list is the 
check out. album Merry Christmas by Johnny Mathis. If If you do decide to buy onn of these albums, you don't know who that is, he is the old guy car­most are inexpensivii and can be l'ound at most oling in one of those GAP ads. In comparison to music: stores. JI' vou don't know wlwre to find Crosby, Mr. Mathis is high on what ever it was 
them, just look i;1 the large displays set up for that made the midnight clear, getting more into 
the shopping seasons right next to Wham's the Christmas sprit by each song 
"Last Christmas." Also for the busy shopper, you can check tirnm out and preview With the music backing of Percy Faith and llis 
some on your favorite on-line music site. They can even send it out beforn Orchestra, the music is considerablv better that 
Christmas is over. that of the Crosby album. Mr. Mathis has a very smooth voice that brings back memories uf siting around the fireplace and relaxing as snowflakes gently fall outside. It is that peaceful quality of the album that makes it such an endearing
album. ._____J_o_h_n_n_y_M_a_t_h_is_____. Deciding between the last two artists, Nat King 
James Schuyler
Cole and Frank Sinatra. was rather ditlicult. I Merry Christmas 
Ah, it's almost that time of' year again. repetitive horn licks. and the slow "Gift nl' tlw That time when the entire family gets Magi" drags on for what seems like an eternity, together to celebrate the Christmas the horn arrangement on the Christmas classic season. Now what would Christmas "Sleigh Ride" makes up for some ol' the album's 
dav be withvut some Christmas music? mishaps. I am not a ran of' the Squirrel Nut 
( still have nightmares of many a Christmas Zippers. morning when my mom would blare the season­I am not a fan of the swing/lounge style they al works uf musical stars such as Barry have. But I am a huge fan of Christmas '\fanilow, Neil Diamond and Kenny G. Now, the Caravan. The rncording industry needs morn or kids are fighting back. The Squfrrcl Nut Zippers these albums that present light-hearted celebra­have just released an all-Christmas album <mti­tions of the season. 1lopefully, other artists will tlod Christmas Caravan. follow the example of Squirrel Nut Zippers and 
l will be honest-when I was handed this CD a record Christmas albums next year. couple of days ago, I didn't think any modern flow great would it be to have Tupac release band, much less the Squirrel Nut Zippers, could "Christmas Before I Was Dead" or Marilyn pull off an entire album filled with Christmas Manson create an album called "Christmas With tunes. Ilowever, I was pleasantly surprised with Satan"? the-work on this disc. The album is very well put together with smart songwriting and some nice musical moments. 
Out or the 10 songs included on Christmas Caravan. eight of them are Squirrel l\ut Zippers' originals, proving that the musicians of' today 

GeoffRahie 

can contribute cheer to the huliday season. The opening track, "Winter Weather·," expresses the band's unconditional luve for the snow that comes with the holidays, while "A Johnny Ace Christmas" talks of a man who enjoys the antici­S.... ;J\lf. . • pation of Christmas Day even more than the .ca.ae.renewer actual event. The strongest track on the collec­
tion is the hilarious "Indian Giver." The song, li:Gilcift!R a'iwal­anchored by a strong electric guitar riff, tells the 

Squirrel Nut Zippers 
story of a boy that wants back all the presents cooias a11 ·· comments he gave to other people for Christmas. "Well, ['ve got a friend/Who lives across town/Every
Christmas Caravan 
year when Christmas rolls around/He gives me my Christmas present in a paper sack/Two huurs later he wants it back." 
Mamn1oth Records 
A nice treat on this nffort is the various musi­cal textures and colors of the laid-back lounge
**** (out of five) 
band. "Carolina Christmas" is dazzled with blue­grass rhythms and "My Evergreen" is filled with jazzy piano. Although the closing track, "Hanging Up My Stockings," contains too many 







"' 

Wednesday, December 9, 1998 -------------page 13 
•ms ffiie Sectson... 
...to buy some lovely Christmas albums 

Hanson A Charlie Brown How the Grinch Stole Snowed In Christmas Christmas 

Neil Diamond The Time-Lile Treasury The Christmas Album of Christmas 




UPCOMINliBIIOWS 
-
CHICAGO INDIANAPOLIS 
Bu alo Tom Dec. 9 Metro . John Spencer Blues Ex. Dec. 12 Metro Big Bad Voodoo Daddy Dec. 16 House of Blues 
Kool &The Gang Dec. 18 House of Blues Dave Matthews Band Dec. 19 United Center Rusted Root Dec. 29 Riviera Night Club Blues Traveler Dec. 30-31 Aragon Ballroom Cheap Trick Dec. 31 Double Door Chris Isaak Dec. 31 House of Blues Local H Dec. 31 Metro Greg Allman Jan. 3 House of Blues Edwin Mccain Jan. 8 House of Blues 10,000 Maniacs Jan. 29 House of Blues 
Soult. Bend 
jGoo Goo Dolls Dec. 14 Heartland 
· 

KISS . Dec. 13 Market Sq. Arena Better Than Ezra Dec. 17 Vogue Theatre Rusted Root Dec. 28 Murat Theatre 
•Jo~n Mellen!tntP Dec. 31 Murat Theatre The· Why Stori Dec. 31 World Mardi Gras 


OHIO-MICHIGAN 
~ave ·Matthews·. Band Dec. 10 Palace of Auburn Hills Candlebox Dec. 11 Mich. Theatre (Ann Arbor) 
-

Medeski, Martin &Wood Dec. 11 Bogarts (Cincinati) Amy.Grant Dec. 12-13 Van Andel Arena (G. Rapids) Fat Joe Dec. 19 Traffic Jam (Columbus) Beck Dec. 20 Joe Louis Arena (Detroit) Garbage Dec. 20 Joe Louis Arena (Detroit) Barenaked ladies Dec. 27 Van Andel Arena (Ci. Rapids) Afghan Whigs Dec. 31 Bogarts (Cincinati) Edwin McCain Jan. 1 St. Andrews Hall (Detroit) Ekoostik Hookah Jan. 1S Magic Bag (Ferndale, Ml) 
Wednesday, December 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
Philadelphia, New Jersey finish game in deadlock 
Associated Press New Jersey got second-period snapped a shot from the left loose puck with New York and two assists. The center has goals from Arnott, Andreychuk circle past Chicago goal Mark defenseman Rich Pilon, both eight goals and 1 7 points in his PHILADELPHIA 5. and Elias to take a 4-3 lead. Fitzpatrick for his fourth goal. skaters were slowed by goalie past 14 games. NEW JERSEY 5 Arnott pulled the Devils even Maneluk. standing in front uf Tommy Salo, who came 20 feet The Senators (13-8-3) outshot 
Rod Brind'Amour scored the at 2-2 with a power-play tally Detroit goalie Chris Osgood, out of his net to play the puck. Tampa Bay 44-19 in going five tying goal with 3:45 remaining at 2:01. tied it with his fourth goal at Salo missed the puck and games over .500 for just the in the third period Tuesday Zubrus took a feed from Mike 4;11, tipping in a pass from Forsberg managed to sweep a fourth time in team history. night to give the Philadelphia Sillinger in center ice and car­Doug Gilmour. Osgood was backhand into the vacated net ottawa is 11-3-3 in its last 17 Flvers a 5-5 tie with the New ried the puck to the right circle making his second start since as he was falling down. road games. Jcrsev Devils. before rifling a shot past missing six games with a hip Roy saved the game with a Benoit Hogue and Vincent 
The Brind'Amour goal Brodeur at 8:37 to put flexor injury. left pad kick save on Trevor Lecavalier had the Tampa Bay capped a two-goal. third-period Philadelphia back in front 3-2 .. Detroit regained the lead Linden with 12 seconds left in goals. Hague's first-period goal rally that wiped out a 5-3 Andreychuk countered at when Roest swooped in on the regulation. The Islanders (10-snapped a 27-game, goal-scor­Devils lead. Eric Lindros scored 13:33 on a goal that started right side at 7 :52 and flipped 17-0) are the only team in the ing drought. his second power-play goal of with a dump-in by Brendan the rebound of Martin NHL to nut have played an The Lightning have lost 11 of the game at 13:09 to set the Morrison. The puck bounced Lapointe's shot over a sprawl­overtime game this season. 12, getting outscored 60-22. stage for Brind'Amour's tying off the corner boards and ing Fitzpatrick for his second Cam Russell also scored fur Tampa Bay has also dropped tally. Flyers goalie John NHL goal. the Avalanche, which won their six straight at home. 
Jody Hull and Danius Zubrus Vanbiesbrouck tried to steer it Despite being outshot, the fourth straight game and eighth McEachern and Yashin also scored for the Flyers, who out of danger. He wound up tip­Red Wings took a 3-1 lead on straight over the Islanders. The scored 3:30 apart midway salvaged a point in the opener ping it right to Andreychuk. Shanahan's 14th goal with 2:21 last time New York won, on through the first period. of the home-and-home series. Elias gave New Jersey its first left in the second period. Feb. 27, 1994. tho franchise After stealing the puck along The teams meet again lead of the game at 16:42, scor­Yzennan set it up. stealing the was based in Quebec City and the right wing boards, Yashin Thursday night in Philadelphia. ing off a centering pass from puck from Doug Zmolek in the known as the Nordiques. skated toward the net and sent 
Bobby Holik, Jason Arnott, Sykora. left corner and feeding it to Mariusz Czerkawski scored a pass through the crease to Dave Andreychuk, Patrik Elias Ron Hextall replaced Shanahan streaking in from the the lone goal for the Islanders, McEachcrn, who made it 1-0 at and Brian Rolston scored for Vanbiesbrouck to start the left circle. who have lost six straight 11:26. New Jersey, which extended its third period and gave up the Ethan Moreau appeared to games and nine of their last 11. Yashin scored on a backhan­unbeaten streak to live (3-0-2). goal to Rolston at 12:06 that score for Chicago with 17. 6 sec­Salo stopped 20 shots. der during a goal-mouth The Devils are also unbeaten in gave New Jersey a seemingly onds remaining in the second, Russell scored the only goal scramble at 14:56. their last eight games on home secure 5-3 lead. but it was waved off when of the first period at 7:35. His The Lightning got within 2-1 ice (5-0-3) Defenseman Ken Daneyko replays showed the puck hadn't slap shot from the blue line hit at 16:38 on Hogue's power-play 
On the tying goal. Chris appeared in his 935th game, completely crossed the line off an Islander defenseman and goal. Gratton fired a shot from the breaking the Devils' club record before Osgood gloved it. Salo before it went in. It was McEachern countered as he right circle that hit Martin held by John MacLean. Daze, on a lead pass from Russell's first goal this season. completed his second two-goal Brodeur's stick and popped in Devils captain Scott Stevens Chris Chelios, beat Osgood low Trevor Linden had the game of the season at 8:38 of the air. Brind'Amour batted the missed the game with the flu. on the glove side with 6:10 left Islanders' best scoring chance the second period. puck into the cage to close out in the third period. of the period, but his one-timer Lecavalier, the first overall the scoring in the seesaw con­RED WINGS 3, Fitzpatrick was pulled for an from the slot hit the left post at pick in this year's draft, scored test. BLACKHAWKS 2 extra attacker with 55 seconds 9:00. his fourth goal of the season 
The Devils dominated at the Steve Yzerman had two remaining, but the Blackhawks An apparent goal by Forsberg and first in 13 games to make start before the goals by assists to lead the Detroit Red never got another shot on goal. at 5:52 was found to have it 3-2 at 4:23 of the third peri­Lindros and Hull in a span of Wings to a 3-2 victory over passed through a hole in the od. Wendel Clark assisted on 55 seconds shifted the tide in Chicago in a wide-open game AVALANCHE 2, net. Lecavalier's goal, extending his favor of the Flyers. Tuesday night, snapping the ISLANDERS 1 Czerkawski tied the game at point streak to five games (4 
r Lindros converted a perfect Blackhawks' three-game win­Peter Forsberg scored the 14:21 when he tipped in goals, 1 assist). pass from John LeClair for the ning streak. winning goal while falling on Smolinski's slap shot from the The Senators regained the opening goal at 11:11. Hull also Nicklas Lidstrom, rookie his back and Patrick Roy outer right circle. two-goal advantage when beat Brodeur from the slot as Stacy Roest and Brendan stopped 31 shots as the Andreas Dackell scored at the Flyers went ahead 2-0. Shanahan scored for Detroit. Colorado Avalanche beat the SENATORS 4, LIGHTNING 2 11:33. 
Good hustle by Krzysztof Rookie Mike Maneluk and Eric New York Islanders 2-1 Shawn McEachern had two Ottawa defenseman Janne Oliwa set up goal by Holik that Daze scored for Chicago. Tuesday night. goals and an assist Tuesday Laukkanen made his first trimmed the Flyers' lead to 2-1 The game was just 27 sec­Forsberg's goal came at 5:51 night as Ottawa beat Tampa appearance this season follow­with 3:24 remaining in the onds old when Lidstrom -on a of the third period, his eighth of ·Bay 4-2. ing off-season abdominal mus­period. crisp pass from Yzerman -the season. Chasing after a Alexei Yashin added a goal cle surgery and a groin injury. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ac che Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  NEEDEDfrAAVEL FREE.EARN CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  For Sale: Digitech RP-20 Floor Effects  Show starts at 10:00 pm, $3 cover, 21+  When the maintenance man tells you that you might want to clean  
6+.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY·  Processor/Preamp  your sink, you know it is dirty.  
Early Spring Break  WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  Only 1 year old, ex. condition.  Join the ND Ski Club  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  800-838-8203.  List: $799.99, asking $450.00 or  ?s call 277-6780  Way to go, Knockout Workout  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  1,2,3.4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  b/o. Call 287-991 o, ask for  
Awesome  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­ Brendan  I'll miss all you McGlinn girls when  
Beaches,Nightlile!Departs From  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­ TIES.272-6551  THIS IS THE LAST ISSUE OF  I'm in Spain next semester!  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  Workers earn up to $2000+/month  Ask your parents to buy you this  THE OBSERVER FOR 1998.  
- Air,Hotel,Meals &Parties  (w/tips & benelits).World  House for rent, 105 Marquette,  car. Reliable 4-dr Olds  HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND GOOD  i might be in chorale.  
$339!Panama City Room With  Travel!Land-Tour jobs up to  5 bedrooms, available now and for  Calais.A/C,auto trans.cassette.  LUCK ON TESTS.  but that does not mean that i am  
Krtchen, 7 Free Parties  $5000-$7000/summer.Ask us how!  next fall, 232-6964  $4100OBO  biased.  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  517-336-4235  Call 232-5398  We're open extended hours during  
$149!springbreaktravel .com  Ext.C55841  Room for Rent in Turtle Creek  the finals study weekend.  diane--good luck on you directing  
1-800·67 8-6386  SEEKING CHILD CARE IN MY  apartments.Call 273-2435.  L___ PERSONAL  Fri. 12/11 7:30am-Midnight Sat. 12/12 10am-Midnight  final! sorry i missed it ... i'm sure i would have LAUGHED all the way  
#1 Spring Break Specials!Book  HOME for 2 well-behaved chi!•  Roommates Needed  Sun. 12/13 10am-Midnight  through  
Early & Receive a Free Meal  dren.1-3 Days A Week,  ND Apts Call X4415  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  THE COPY SHOP  -------------------­,.,.  
Plan!!!Cancun & Jamaica  7:30-5:30.lf Interested, Call 631­ Break'  LaFortune Student Center  or wait... is that your cast?  
$399,Bahamas $459,Panama City  7051.  House for rent, near ND /SMC,  Spring Break Packages are going  
$99.  3 bdrm, sm. garage, gas heat,  fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica  alien alien alien .... you go to bed  
1-800-234-7707  Sitter for CUTE young boys for  CA, fenced yard, nice area, is  Packages for the Class of '99!Stop  so early  
endlesssummertours.corn  next sem. 9-10 hrs/wk. Must be  available JAN '99, rent $600.m  in at Anthony Travel in the  SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS SOLD AT  
ILOST & FOUND I  avail Mon. alts. other hrs flex. Need car. 237-1981  W/D. Call 219-923-7246.  LaFortune Student Center and check out the best Spring Break vacations around.Get your deposit  DINING HALLS ON WED. DEC.9TH AT DINNER  but tonight should be fun if we survive language poetry  
Male student needs roomate for  in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a  intact.  
large 2 br/ Indian Lakes Apt (5  chance with an unknown agency or  
LOST: A SMC '98 class ring,  Students needed to work as  rnins from campus. Must be clean.  some 1-800 number.Limited space  •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY,  msh-good luck at senate! make  
engraved Megan E. Driscoll.  therapists with my autistic  243-8961  available.so book now!  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  sure they follow Robert's Rules!  
REWARD! Please call 273-9155.  children. Willing to learn  Anthony Travel.Inc.  STUDENTS •• Original student  
- Thank you!  behavior modification. Various working hrs available.  FOR SALE  Lafortune Student Center 631-7080  group will hold SUPPORT meeting tomorrow 12/10. Call info line for  you are such a good parliamentari­an  
Call Pam at 273-2761  details 236-9661 .  
Lost 11/22: Silver bracelet. senti- PREPAID PHONE CARDS  they'll miss you next semester ..  
198 MIN. $20  Looking for a unique gift?  HANDEL'S MESSIAH  
1~,.,;~;~'~  CALL 258•4805  presented by the Notre Dame  who else will say, POINT OF  
SPRING BREAK '99!  DRUMMER NEEDED  FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! Bed box set. not available in  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures and we'll create a custom color cal­endar.  CHORALE Thursday and Friday, Dec. 10-11 8 pm Washington Hall  ORDER with such force? point of inquiry: why am i here at 3  
Cancun·Nassau·Jamaica· Mazatla  to complete  U.S. call pete at 251-0178  Tickets $3 at LaFortune  am?  
n•Acapulco• Bahamas  new original / cover  THE COPY SHOP  .....Great Christmas music, .......  
Cruise"Florida'South Padre  campus band  Beautiful brass bed.queen  LaFortune Student Center  i should be snug  
Travel Free and make lots of  size, with orthopedic mattress set  Reserved seats so get tickets  
CashlTop reps are offered full-time  must be willing to play all kinds  and deluxe frame.New.never  NOW!  like a bug ...  
staff jobs.Lowest price  of pop/rock/top40 stuff  used,slill in plastic.$225  
Guaranteed.Call now for details!  219-862-2082  UMPHREY's McGEE announces  who wants to miss the hallelujah  aw, forget it.  
www.classtravel.com  Call Dan @ x 1197  one last show before finals at  chorus?  
800/838-6411  for immediate audition  Smith Corona  Let's hear it for classy dances with  
Word Processor  THE FACTORY  or all we like sheep?  fabulous dates.  
"ACT NOW' CALL FOR BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES TO SOUTH PADRE (FREE MEALS ),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­ I_________ FOR RENT ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Like New $100080 X1554  421 E, Madison, across lrom the Madison Oyster Bar TONIGHT!  baa. let us break our bonds asunder  Have a very merry Christmas and Happy New Year from everybody at The Observer!  
WEST, PANAMA CITY.REPS  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  


-~---------­
page 15 
The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, December 9, 1998 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL ¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Iowa upsets Kansas DiMaggio is on road to recovery 
Associated Prc.s 
IAWirnNC:E, Kan. 

Kont McCausland hit two 3­
poin tnrs in the final I:40 and 
Iowa nn<lod llm nation's longest 
hnnwcourt winning strnak at 62 
ga111ns by heating No. 1() 
Kansas 85-81 Ttwsday night 
Iowa ((>-I) fought back from an 18-point, sncond-hall' dolicil lrnhinr! McCausland, who hit four or his five 3-pointors in tho sncond half. 
Kansas· strPak, while a school rl'conl. wasn't among thn tup down nms in r.ollPge basketball history. K,~nlucky snt llw record ol' 12') lwtw1inn IIJ43 and 1955. 
l(ric Clwnowilh hit a turn­aro11111I shfll with I :48 l1d't lo givn Kansas l!i-2) u 7(1-74 lnad. McCausland hit a :!-pointer and .lo<'y Hangn l'ollowed ~vilh ,i stP,il and jumper to put Iowa alwucl for good, 7()-7(,. Byan Holwrtson'.s :i-pointnr with !(di sncon<ls lef't nrl Iowa's load LO 83-Xl. but the llawkeyes broke Kansas' press for an unconlest­nd layup by Hyan Luehrsmann with 8.4 seconds remaining. 

The .layhawks shot just 11­f'or-23 from the line and wern outrcbouncled 41-33, while Iowa survived a season-high 31 turnovnrs -double its averagP -and 18 steals. 
A 12-2 run, including thrne straight baskets by Nick Bradford, gave Kansas a 59-41 lead wil.h 12:50 remaining. But the .Iayhawks 1m1nagnd just t.wo rield goals in the next seven minutes. and Iowa went up 70­(>9 on .Jacob Jaacks' two f'ren throws with 5:14 !ell. 
Fren-throw shooting lrnlped kn1)p thn Ilawkeyes close in the lirst hair. despitP 14 turnovers. Thny wern 1)-l'or-12 from tlrn lino bnfuro the break, compared to I-for-4 f'or Kansa~. 
Kansas was without forward I.ester Earl. who undurwont knP<) surgery on l\lonclay. 
Associated Press 

JIOLLYWOOO, Fla. 
Joe DiMaggio mad1' a dra­
matic turnaround from a seri­
ous lung infection just after 
doctors told his family and 
friends to prepare for the 
worst. 

"We called the family 
because, frankly, we thought 
we were getting down to the 
last rnad," Dr. Earl Barron 
said Tuesdav in an interview 
with The Associated Press. 
"Tod,.~y, there's a litllc more 
hope. 

DiMaggio, recovering from 
lung cancer surgery, fought off 
a 102-degreo fever, pneumo­
nia in his good lung and an 
intestinal infection lhat devel­
op<'d during the we1\kend. 
Jlis condition was so grim at that time that doctors gathered DiMaggio's family, including his brother. Dom, and oven discussed signing a "do not rnsuscitate" form !'or the 84­year-old Hall of Farner. 
"Wo talked about that, but they did not feel comfortable with that," Barron said. 
Tho former New York Yankees conter fielder has shown a remarkable ability to fight back from several serious setbacks since the cancerous tumor was removed from his right lung on Oct. 14. 
"lle's going to be here a lot longer," Barron said. 
But he also cautioned: "Don't walk out of here and say 'Joe DiMaggio's in great shape.' Everything is relative. You and I are in good shape. lle's hanging in them." 
His improvement began after 
doctors inserted a tube into 
DiMaggio's trachea on Monday 
to suction the infected materi­
al. 
"He perked up immediately," 
Barron said. 
Barron denied a broadcast 
report that DiMaggio had 
lapsed into a coma. 
"His level of consciousness 
has been down because he was 
,ffE's AN lcoN. HE'S 
AN AMAZING PER· 

SON. HE'S THE GREATEST 
PLAYER THAT EVER PLAYED.' 
DR. EARL BARRON DIMAGGIO 's PHYS"!CIAN 

sedated. But he is not in a 
coma. He is up and moving 
and opening his eyes," he said. 
DiMaggio entered Memorial Regional Hospital Oct. 12, with Barron heading a team or six doctors trnating him. 
Since his surgery, he has suf­fered recurring pneumonia in his left lung. Besidos trnatment with three antibiotics, ho also has had Ouid drained from his lungs several times. His blood pressure dropped so rapidly on Nov. 16 that a Catholic priest was summoned to administer last rites. 
The past weekend was par­ticularly frightening. 
"I thought he was near death," said friend and attor­ney Morris Engelberg. "We',re playing this day-by-day. Today is good. Tomorrow, who knows'?" 
Even if DiMaggio is eventual­ly discharged from the hospi­tal, he will never have tho same quality of life, Engelbnrg 
said. 
"Machines arc keeping him 
alive. lle's been in the ICU for 
58 days. He's got every hookup 
known to man. tie's being f'ed 
through tubes," Engelberg 
said. "If he recov11rs, he won't 
bo tho same. lle'II never have 
the quality of' lifo he did." 
Barron refused to speculate 
on whether DiMaggio would 
nver leave the hospital. "lie 
could go sour in f'ive minutes 
and he could walk out of tho 
hospital six wneks from now, I 
would certainly not want to 
prndict," he said. 
Doctors anticipatn othnr 
problems and must trnat any 
complications as they occur, 
Barron said. 
"They've done a sensational job with him, I don't think he could have gottnn better earn," Barron said. "The proof ol' it is when he walks out of the hos­pital, (;or! willing." 
Barron, who has truatncl DiMaggio for five years, is keenly aware or why so many tJ(;?PI~ adm_irc his p~tient. 
I le s an icon. lies an amaz­ing person. He's the groat.est player that ever playnd," Barron said, sitting in an office f'illed with baseball. football, hockey and basketball memo­rabilia. 

"lie may not have hit 70 home runs, hut he did just about everything else," he said. "I lose an awful lot of sleep. I'm constantly thinking about it and discussing it with my peers." 

l~~~~
Your Place-zto=-=,=-----------;,~s.t_;·­



8 rain Food for Finals Week! 
Come in to study! Or for a Break! 
Hours: 

Mon thru Thurq 
11 a.rn. -1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 
11  a.m.  -3' a.m  
Sunday:  
12  p.m.  -l  a.m  

r-------:., 
1Anytime Special1 
I  2 Breadsticks  I  
I I I  s500  I I I  

L------.J 
ND store 
271-1177 
,.-------,
I Lunch Special I 1Small t Topping I I Pizza plus coke I 


I S500 I 
I I 
L------.J 
Visa/Mastercard Accepted 




,.-------, 
._ ______
1 additional topping only $1.25 ea.1 
I  Late Night  I  
I  Special  I  
I  1 Large Cheese  I  
II  $574  II..  

r-------:-w 
IAnytime Special1 I 1 Large I I 1 Topping Pizza I 
I I 
I $699 I
L______.J 
Saint Mary's 
271-7272 
-

Wednesday, December 9, l 998 The Observer• SPORTS page 16 
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 



Tom Osborne, Bo Jackson highlight Hall of Fame selections 
-
Assoda1nl Prl'sS 
NEWYORK 
Less than a year after coaching his final game at Nebraska, Tom Osborne was inducted into the National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame on Tuesday night, along with 12 former col­lege stars. 
"It's a great honor," said Osborne, who compiled a remarkable 255-49-3 record and won two national titles and shared a third in 25 seasons with the Cornhuskers. "Whenever somebody, a player or a coach, gets into a Hall of Fame, there's a lot of pr,ople very responsible. And that's the case here. l'mjust the figurehead," 
The llall of Fame waived a three-year waiting period to admit Osborne afler he retired in January. Last year. the hall did the same for retired Grambling coach Eddie Robinson. 
Bo Jackson, Auburn's 1985 Heisman Trophy winner who went on to star in the NFL and in major league baseball, led a parade or college greats who were hon­ored during the football foundation's annu­al awards dinner. 
.Jackson. whose two-sport career was cut short by hip injuries. played for the Tigers from 1982-85. In his lleisman season, he ran for 1.859 yards and 17 tourhdowns. 
Also inducted were quarterback Jim !\lcMahon (Brigham Young, 1977 -78, 80­81 ); defensive back Al Brosky (Illinois, 1950-52); guard Brad Budde (Southern California, 1976-79); tackle Bill Fralic (Pittsburgh, 1981-84); linebacker Randy Gradishar (Ohio State, 1971-73); defensive tackle Mel Long (Toledo, 1969-71); quar­terback Jcrrv Rhome (SMlJ, Tulsa, 1961, 63-64); center Jim Hitcher (North Carolina State, 1976-79); running back-defensive back Johnny Roland (Missouri, 1%2, 64­65); crrnter-linebarker Alex Sarkisian (Northwestern, 1946-48); and defensive tackle l3ill Stanfill (Georgia, 1966-68). 
McMahon threw for 9,536 yards and 84 touchdowns for the Cougars. The quarter­back who earned the nickname "Punky 
QB" for his brash behav­ior in the NFL led the Chicago Bears to victory in the 1986 Super Bowl. 
"I love the game, I'm glad l stuck with foot­ball," said McMahon, who came to BYlJ with the intention of playing base­ball. "It's brought me everything that I have great in my life. I met mywile in college." 
The foundation also honored 17 athletes who will receive an $18,000 postgraduate fellowships. 
In Division I-A, the hon­orees were: quarterback Todd Bandhauer (Iowa 

B RUN O 'S 
PIZZA NORTH 
Delivery 
Hours: 
Lunch:Tues-Fri.

273-3890 
11:00-1:30 

Dinner: After 4 PM 
Sun-Thur. 4-10 Fri-Sat. 4-11 

Finals Special 
14" Pizza (up to 4 toppings) and 
One 2-Liter Coke/Diet/Sprite 
$10.00 INCLUDES TAX 



273-3890 
11 

STILL THE BEST 11 

Need Cash?? '\Earn $25.00 Today witlit and a student I.D. 
-:;­


Potential of Earning $145.00 per 1nonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
State); center Eric de Groh (West 
Virginia); linebacker Harry Gardner 
(Northwestern); quarterback Corby Jones 
(Missouri); fullback Joel Makovica 
(Nebraska); guard Uerek Rose (Iowa); safe­
ty Chad Smith (New Mexico); safety Patrick 
Stephen (Northern Illinois): tackle Matt 
Stinchcomb (Georgia); and safety Jeff 
Zurcher (Kentucky). 
In Division I-AA: center 1\/ick Battles 
(Butler); defensive back Anthony 
Pannunzio (Youngstown State}; and kicker 
A.lex Sicrk (Princeton). 
In Division II: linebacker Lee Daily · (Henderson State} and defensive tackle Bart Johnson (Moorhead State). 
ln lJivision III: safety Tom Massey (SUNY-Brockport] and guard Chris Meskan (Augustana). 
Roy Kramer, chairman of the Bowl Championship Series and commissioner of the Southeastern Conforence. received the foundation's Distinguished American Award. Kramer is credited with devising the new BCS standings, which used a com­plicated formula of polls, computer ratings, strength-of-schedule and losses that even­tually set up a Tennessee-Florida State match for a national title in the fiesta Bowl on Jan. 4. 




page 17 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, December 9, 1998 
¦ BOXING 

Tyson plans return to ring 
A.\!)ociatcd Press 
I.OS ANGEi.ES If' Miko Tyson is concerned 
about  a  possib!n  return  to  
prison.  he  wasn't  saying  
Tuesday.  

Looking fit in a black muscle T-shirt and wearing a crimson lrnrnL, Tyson appeared for a news conference callnd lo announce what promoter Dan Goossen called the worst-kept sncrnt in boxing -that Tyson will face Francois Botha on Jan. l(i. 
The ! 2-rouncl bout at tlrn M<iM Grand in I.as Vegas, to bn carried on Showtime Event '!'devision Pay Per View, will he Tyson's first since Juno 28, 1997 w!rnn Im bil Evandnr llolyfidd's ears in their heavy­weight championship bout and was disqualifiod in the third round. 
Shorlly tlrnrnaf'ter. tlrn 
Nevada Athletic Commiss.ion stripped Tyson of' his boxing license and fined him $3 mil­lion. The commission reinstat­ed Tyson's license in October. 
Even before Tyson spoke at the packed Ilollywood Athletic Club news conference, adviser Shelly Finknl informed attend­ing reporters and fans that questions wouldn't be answered regarding "any pending litigation." 
The first questioner asked Tyson how he felt about a pos­sible return to prison, and was shouted down by others on the dais. 
Tyson has a 45-3 record with 39 knockouts, while Botha is 39-1 with 24 knock­outs. 
Botha's only loss came on Nov. 9, 1996 when he was stopped by Michael Moorer in the ninth round for the IBF heavyweight title. 

¦ NBA 


All-Star game .canceled, season at risk 
Associated Pres; 

+;J1!1ti; .NE\'VYORK The All-Star game is the latest casualty of the NBA lockout. The only thing left to save is the 
season itself, .. ,, ..·.. .· ,, .. •.·.· .. •._.· •tr ..•.·. .. . . . . . 
Ending a 47-yfar~old1ratliti9pH~f bringing its top talent together for a specia.Lshowcase, the NBA on Ttrnsday canceled the .AH-Star game, whi.Qh,bad bee~se.t.Jpr Iell;1t iµJMadeJphia. 
~This. is just~ result dfthe in,ex9rabfo m.a.reh of the calendar," commissioner David Stern said. "There just isn't time left. to have a season witll ~~All•Star: ~ame/'.. . · . .. ... ·. "We apologize to the city of . ... delphia. but we promise to bring the All-Star Weekend back 
as soon as possible." . . . •....... ·• .··.• 
~ter.r citlled MJYQr Edvv~r~... ft~~g~JLto]:rreak the news, but ineally didn't come·as a surprise. With collective bargaining negotiations at a stand?till and the ~mtlook,i~cni.... bleak, the 
· •. 

biggest questiQn110w is<)\'hetber ewm be a . season at all. .·· ·· · · 
"If we can't make this deal, I don't think there'~hop~ {9tthe;~pQrtits.elf, ___ St.erns,aidin one"dtllis tnostpessimis(~c c;crm~e Stodate. 
The cancellation meant Philadelphia would lose an estimated $35 million in business associ­atedwith the game. i] . . .. < .•· .._.• 
The NBA had held ah All~Stat: gamtfevery year without fail since 1951, and this season's version would have given the 76ers a chance to show off' tboir now arena, ,th~, First Union Center, and perhaps even their best player, Allen Jverson, if he had made the Eastern Conference team. 
The. <lity would have been back at ~ho center of' the basketball universe for the first time since the days ot' Dr. J and Moses Malone. 
"I wanted the world to see the greatness of' Philadelphia in one giant show,': Sixers presi• dont Pat Croce said. 
It also would have given NBC a chance to draw one of its largest audiences ol' the winter during the all-bnporta.rlt February swe.eps pnri• 
od. 

The owners and players have not met for negotiations since last Thursday, and no new talks are schoduled. 
Stern has refused to set a date when it would be too late to save the season, saying it will expire of its own accord In the not too distant future. Ho also rulHd out having an All-Star game at the conclusion of the season. 
"Sadly, the owners have elected to cheat mil-
Uoll. of fa.ns .and the city of Philadi,Jphia out of a wonderful spectacle," union director Billy Hunter said. "Their effort to further intimidato the players will not succeed.'' 
The first two months of tho season have already been scrapped, and it now cannvt begin ttntil mid-January at the earliest. 
Deputy commissioner Iluss Grnnik disclosed that the )eaguo is willing to extend the playoffsuntil the end of June -about 1 O days later than usual -but would not be willing to play into July. 
If a sl:)ascm can ho salvaged, it appears it will contain less than 50 games. Stern reiterated Tuesday that having a handshake deal on a new collective bargaining agreement won't be euough for him to lift the lockout. The dtml will first have to be put to paper and ratified, a process that could take about two weeks. 
A.t leas~thre(~ weeks more would then be needed to stgn free agents, make trades and hold training camps. 
Since that would leave very little time to 
squeeze in· a few gamtis before the All-Star break, and because AU-Star selections are sup­posed to be based upon performance in the cur­rent s,~ason, the league was loft with no choice but to cancel the game. 
"We just don't see a realistic way to have the All-Star designation be based in some wa.y upon what was transpiring in tho snason," Stern said. 
The All~Star Jam Session. un interactive event that provides most fans with tlrnfr best opportu­nity to get an up-close taste of' tho t'<istivities, had already been canceled. 
Granik aJso shed some light on the type of schedulo the league would hav<l ii' the lockout is lifted, saying it will not be f'casible to have 56 games with every team playing every oiher team twice. 
"You'd see more of a conference-type sched­ule with some mixing of intra-conference games. tut 110 team is going to sne every other team at home. That's going to be virtually impossible," Granik sa.id. 


The NEW LIBRARY WEB 
-



IS COMING! 
Try it out at <http://www.nd.edu/~ndlibs/> 


Wednesday, December 9, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 18 


¦ LEFT FIELD 

BCS leaves Kansas St. high and dry 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sporrs Columnist 
Imagine building a team from the ashes "from beneath the ashes." Imagine taking a winless, hapless college f'outhall program and turning them around from an 0-11 season into a football powerhouse a mere derade later. Imagine coming into the season as a contender !'or the national championship. 
Imagine defeating Nebraska, limiting Texas' H.icky Williams (who will win the Hcisman Trophy easily) to 43 yards on 25 carries, and being 11-0 and on the way to tlrn national champi­onship title game. 
Now imagine all that crum­bling down back into the ashes in the five seconds it took the Texas A&M Aggies' Sirr Parker 
---to catch a 32-yard, thin.I-down desperation pass in double over­time which was forced by A&M's 15-point fourth-quarter come­back. That's all it took. One play. Had Parker dropped the pass, A&M would likely have lost, lest they kick a 47-yard field goal to force a third overtime. To have a whole season, success after suc­cess, taken away from them on one play is the nature of sports. Kansas State lost the game, and rightfully so, but they lost a lot more in that five seconds; they lost their pride and their honor, and that loss cannot be attributed to the Wildcats' not playing to win or the Aggies' never-say-die comeback. Instead, it had to do with the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) and the sham that it is. After going 11-1, finishing third in the BCS "rankings," and having more players on the "BCS All-America First Team" (5) than Tennessee, Florida State, and UCLA combined, the BCS rewards Kansas State with a trip to ... the Alamo Bowl? To play the Purdue Boilermakers? Wildcats' Head Coach Bill 


Snyder may have put it best: times. College football's confer­"You'd like to be able to say life ences and history will prevent a is fair. but obviously that's not playoff b(~t"rnen teams that have the case." That game should be earned the rigbt to play. For about as close as the Vikings­example, the top eight teams Bears game Sunday night, and according to the BCS rankings about as rewarding for the would never get to play one Wildcats as a slap-in-the-face on another in a playoff system a first date. becausf\ of their allegiances to 
The national championship their respective conferences. game, however, will be played While Kansas Staie-Texas A&M between the Tennessee ,vas a preview of what such a Volunteers and the Florida State matrhup would be like, it is Seminoles. Tennessee had all but unfair that the Wildcats must lost to Arkansas until Arkansas play the Aggies while Tennessee forced themselves into a safetv plays someone of Mississippi via a botched punt snap, and,· State's caliber (which is not as after recovering the ball and bad as one might think). having to do nothing more than Nevertheless, the BCS system kneel down, managed to fumble is the best solution put forth by "not only fumble, but quarter­college football's minds. A playoff back Clint Stc>erner actually system based on the BCS v.:ould placed the ball on the ground for be more desirable. but extremely Volunteer defenders to grab" difficult. As for Kansas State, we and a.llow Tennessee to run them can look once again to Coach over in a manmir they were Snyder for insight: " ... If the unable throughout the game. [BCSJ system is adhered to, if you 
Florida State, like Kansas do things the way they're sup­State, has suffered a defeat. posed to be done, then the sys­While the Wildcats lost in double tem will work for you." Kansas overtime on one magnificent State lost to Texas A&M in a play, the Seminoles were gamP they should havP won. drubbed 24-7 bv .,. the North Perhaps more importantly, Carolina State Wolfpack. Oh. their strength-ol~schedule (a por­yeah, and The 'Pack didn't man­tion of the BCS equation) was age to beat teams like Nebraska, weak because three of their first Missouri, and Colorado like A&M four games were against Indiana did, although they did prevail by State (yes, Division II-A Indiana three points at home against State), Northern Illinois and football powerhouse Duke. mighty Northeast Louisiana. 
So if the BCS is going to pit two Despite the two aforemen­teams like Tennessee and tioned reasons, Kansas State Florida State against one anoth­deserves to be in a better bowl er, and this is unfair, what is the than the Alamo Bowl and should right solution'! Well, I've men­face a better opponent than tioned a playoff system in other Purdue. articles. However, in lieu of the The fact that the popularity events that transpired the past and name recognition of some weekend -the SEC and Big 12 teams -especially Florida, with Championships coupled with the two losses -locks them into the "Hurricane Bow.I" between UCLA BCS while it locks out a program and Miami -it seems as if a sys­risen from the ashes such as tem that offers a playoff-like Kansas State explains the politics atmosphere is already in place. that come into play in college 
So, what's the answer? football. It also explains why we 
Sometimes there is no clear­will never truly have a perfect cut answer to any some ques­system in terms of teams, rank­tions, and this is one of those ings and bowls. 
t>eC. 30; Hurri~nitarian . Idaho VS. Southern Miss. 
Dec. 30 Holiday Arizona vs. Nebraska 
Dec. 31 Liberty Tulane vs. BYU 
Dec.31 ... Peach. Virginia vs. Georgia 
Dec. 31 Independence Mississippi vs. Tx. Tech. . OSCvs. Texas Chr. Kentucky vs. Penn St. Ga. Tech. vs. Notre Dame Michigan vs. Arkansas Mississippi St. vs. Texas Wisconsin vs. UCLA Ohio St. ys. Texas A&M 
Jan. 2 · Orange Syracuse vs. Florida 
Tennessee vs. Florida St. 
BILL 


HENNESSE 
~aftlul 20t41]~ {tJ,e, ~ 29~) 
Love. Mom and Dad. Patrick. Theresa (ND '96). &Kieran (ND '99) 


. 

Wednesday, December 9, 1998 
page 19 The Observer • SPORTS 
-~----------­
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL .... 
Knight outburst works to Kentucky's advantage in OT win 
Associated l'rcs. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky 
lleshimu Evans had 22 points and nine rnbounds as fifth-ranked Kentucky boat No. I I Indiana 70-61 in overtime Tuesday night in a game that featured a kicking outburst by Hoosiers coach Bob Knight. 
Knight's blowup came with 
:i:45 left in overtime and Kentucky leading 56-51. 
Angered by a traveling call on Indiana's Kirk Haston, Knight kicked a piece of red plastic facing on the front of the scorer's table and referee Gerald Boudreaux immediate­ly whistled a technical. As Kentucky's !'ans roared, Knight kicked the plastic again, leaving a dark streak. 
Kentucky (8-1) led by nine with 1:28 left in regulation, but Indiana (8-2) made three straight 3-pointers -the first two by Luke Recker and the third by Dano Fife with 1.7 seconds left in regulation to tie the game at 51. 
Hecker led Indiana with 18 points, while A.J. Guyton 
HEY SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS! INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT OF VICE-PRESIDENT? 
Elections open to all second semester sophomores & above in good academic standing and social standing. 
You must attend one of the following informational meetings after break: Wednesday, January 20 or Thursday, January 21 
Questions? Call Bridget Heffernan, Elections Commissioner at X4377 
added 15 for the Hoosiers. 
Scott Padgett scored 17 points for Kentucky, which opened the overtime with a 3­pointer by Padgett and a layup by Wayne Turner for a 56-51 lead. 
Haston was then called for traveling, triggering the out­bu rs t by Knight, who was coaching his 1,000th college game. 
Padgett made one of the two free throws on the technical. Evans was fouled and made two free throws on the Kentucky possession that fol­lowed, giving the Wildcats an eight-point lead. 
Knight is the 16th man to 
coach 1,000 Division l college 
basketball games. Ilis record 
is 728-272 in 33-plus seasons 
at Army and Indiana. 
The win was the fifth 
straight for Kentucky in the annual neutral-site series, which alternates between Freedom Hall and Indianapolis' HCA Dome. 
Evans scored 18 of his 22 points after halftime, including three crucial :i-pointers. The third of those broke a 40-40 tie with 5:50 left and sent Kentucky on an 11-2 run that ended with a dunk by Evans that gave Kentucky a 51-42 lead. 
Kentucky shot 26 percent from the field in the first half and just under 40 percent for the game, while Indiana fin­ished at 38 percent. 
All the misses translated into 
a lot of rebounds -43 for 
Kentucky and 31 for Indiana. 
Michael Bradlev had nine for 
the Wildcats t,; tie Evans for 
-

the team load. 


... 

-
-
-
Wednesday, December 9, 1998 a game-high 23 points and eight total rebounds. 
Basketball 
Off the bench, it was fresh­man forward Tamika Williams
continued from page 24 
who added to the offense, play­fast-paced breakaway offense ing when the Huskies built a that started at the game's 29-point lead, their largest of the game. with five
onset. 
Freshman forward Swintayla minutes remaining. She srored Cash p,rased the only Irish lead 12 points in _just 18 minutes of of the con­
play. 
In a game in which
test a little more than Auriemma emphasized playing two minutes the ball to the inside, into the Abrosimova, Cash and Williams game when combined for a little less than 
she broke up 50 percent of Connecticut's an Irish mid­points. court play "We really ·wanted to take 
with a steal Riley advantage of our inside game and fastbreak tonight." said Auriemma. "We that gave the 1-Iuskies a 4-2 felt like we had morP bodies, 
lead. 
and we told the guards that we 
"They looked to press a lot," wanted to pass the ball inside said Irish captain Sheila as much as possible." McMillen. "Thev didn't want to That task was led by Amy 
setup their offense." Duran from the point, who fin­is 11 ed the
The only 
game withoffense the 

Huskies need­'WEDIDN'T HANDLE eight assists ed was off of THE PRESSURE AND 
on offense and four steals on

th e press, as WE PANICKED.' 
they kept the the other end Irish. from 
of the court. 

moving the MUFFET McGRAW Thr Trish ball effective­
came out in 

NOTRE DAME WOMENS 
ly. the second BASKETBALL COACH half trailing
The lone bright spot for bv 14 and the Irish came from outside, as hoping to McMillen was a perfer,t 5-for-5 close the gap before the 
from three-point range. She Huskies went on a 14-4 run to led the team with 21 total put the game away. Notre points while Niele Ivey sunk Dame had four turnovers in its three of her eight tries from first five possessions of the half downtown to finish the game to send Connecticut on its drive. with 17. Despite playing against a Cash finished with 15 points stronger bench, Irish head 
for Connecticut while leading coach Muffet McGraw saw her her team with two blocks. team fold from the pressure, Another underclassman led not tiredness. the Huskies in the scoring "We collapsed mentally," she 
department, sophomore said. "I don't think we were Svetlana Abrosimova. The 6-tired. We didn't handle the foot-2 forward finished up with pressure and we panicked." 
The Observer• SPORTS 


Insight 
continued from page 24 makes them tough to stop." "They definitely have more depth. In the past they've had one great player," McGraw said. "Now they don't have just that one great player. I think Abrosimova is a great player, but it doesn't really matter if she is on the court or not. They arc all capable." McMillen was the lone bright spot for the Irish, as she scored 21 points on 6-of-9 shooting and was perfecl. from down­town. She had all 5,102 fans on 
their feet after she drained each of her five three-point field goals. The Irish faithful, howev­er, didn't see the women at their best. 
"This is one of those games whero you want to get up in front of the mic and apologize to the crowd," McGraw said. "I think Conner.ticut is a great team and they made us play very poorly, but I also thought we made ourselves play poorly. We are a much better team than we showed tonight. 
"These girls were so excited to have a big crowd that when they came out in front of all these people, all they wanted to do was please them," McGraw 
page 20 continued. "They wanted to do everything right and have these people come back." Hopefully, they will come back. Despite the loss, Notre Dame (6-1) is still ofTto one of its best starts in school history. Their current sixth ranking in both polls is also the highest ever for the program and the Irish already have wins over three ranked opponents, includ­ing two that were in the top 10. If Notre Dame continues to play the way it has over the past few weeks, another showdown with UConn is sure to loom some­where down the road. Maybe then, the time will finally be right. 



KRAMER TIMES 
Volume 1 Issue 1 NOVEMBER J998 
*Domus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available *Student neighborhoods close to campus 
*Security systems provided *Well maintained homes *Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or {219) 233-4509 
... -....................... -·.......... -· ..
...... -·-··--·­
4­
-

. ..-.-. ...--.. 
...
-..
..­
..
-
...
... 
• --• 



..-.... 
.. ..­
.. 
... -..­
..
•
-
~ 
:­
., 
............ 

page 2 I The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 9, 1998 
Urn Outland Trophy, annually ACC team. presented to the nation's top line­The Irish and the Jackets have
Bowl 
man. lie also earrrnd first-team one r,ommon opponent on their all-America honors by tho schndulcs: Big East toam Boston
continued from page 24 
Football Writers Associalion or College. Georgia Tech started 1)('n111nial rival G(iorgia. America. On defnnse, the .Jackets their season with a 41-31 loss to 
In that gamn, lhu Yellow took a hit last week when start­the Eagles, while Notre Dame Jackels ralliml from a l 2-point ing linebacker Matt Miller suf'­used a last-minute goal-tine ddicil in th\' final I] 111inules to fored a lorn anterior cruciate in stand to preservo a '.H-26 victory. nml a sevnn-vcar losing streak at his right knee, and b out for the If' this year's Gator Bowl is any­Lhe hands oi· lhP Bulldogs. Tim postseason. Millor is Toch's third­thing like the last time the lrish rally was capped by a 3:i-yarcl l<>ading tacklor with 65 hits. played in it, fans have reason to !fold goal by kicker Brad A lion's share of' the credit for be optimistic. ln 1976, 13th­Chamb<\rS wilh two seconds lull the Yellow Jackets' turnaround ranked Notre Dame defoated No. lo put the visitors up for good. can be given to head coach 20 Penn State 20-9 to finish off 
/\110!.lwr playl'r for the Irish to George O'Leary. /\ four-year vot­their season with a 9-3 record. keep an eye on is c1mtnr Craig oran at the helm of the team, Led by quarterback Rick l'ag<i. Tlw fi-l"oot-3, :~OO-pound O'Leary was recently named !\CC Slager, the Irish scored twenty sPnior l'rom .lupilPr, Fla .. was Coach of tlrn Yriar. while eight unanswered points to takr a nanwd 0111~ of' thnm finalists for playnrs were named to tho all-commanding 20-3 lead at half-
JltFOOTBALL :N Student Sale... 
.,,~:::~~:;~~ickets 
tickets now­• Dec. 10 & 11 
From 9-Spm 
Gate 10 Ticket Office
JltJoyce Center-Jlt with Only $40 student ID 
time. Bunning back Al Hunter rushed for 102 yards on 26 carries to become the first back in Notre Dame history to rush for more than 1,000 yards in a season. Hunter, who scored two rushing touch­downs in the lirst hair, was named the game MVP for his offorL'i. 
On the other end of lhe ball, a determined Irish defense led by linebackers Bob Golie, Doug Becker and Steve lfoinkrieter did not allow the Lions to score a touchdown for the course of the game. While Slager and Hunter went on to other things. the core or the team returned to claim the 1977 national championship the following season. 
Will this team's future hold mom of the same? One thing's for sure: only time will tell. 


Got news? Call 1-5323 
L---------------------------' =====================:;-' 
Tl1e only thing better than an iMac: 


An iMac for less than $29.99/mo/ 
Apple Computer couldn't make iMac any easier to set up or use. So they made it easier to buy. Now, if you're a student, you can get an iMac for less than $29,99 per month, with the first payment not due for 120 days. For about what you'd spend on a few pizzas, you can have a superfast computer that can get you onto the Internet in lO min­
0 
utes right out of the box. You
~ 

also get a coupon book with $2,000 in possible additional savings, for things like software, 
games and accessories. 

Check out the Apple Student Loan Program 
Call 1-800-277-5356 
The gifts keep coming because you also get acoupon book worth $2,000 in additional value for software, games and accessories and a $30 RAM upgrade credit. 
Call nowfor Apple's special ND Student offers! 
OIT Solutions Center 
Rm 112 Computing/Math Bldg 
Think different.

Phone: 219-631-7477 (1 for sales) 
,v,,,\.Jl)ple.com/education/store 
©1998 Af1p!e Cumputer Inc All rights resen•ed. Apple a11d the Apple /of;() are registered traderruirks and i.\1ac is a trademark ofApple Compllle,; file. lbwerl'C is a trademark ofIIJM Corp. Purchase from a participating Apple-authorized campus reseiier orfrom the Apple Store for Education. 
¦ NOTRE DAME TENNIS 

Netters are ranked highly in pre-season 
Dasso leads No. 16 women 
Spe~ial t\l The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team has been ranked 16th 
ip th.a <:ouotry and first in the Midwest Hegion heading into the 
1999 dual~match seasun, according to the Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association which released the rankings on Tuesday. 
The Irish, who finished 19-9 a yenr ago, will play 15 matches 
against teams rank1Jd in th(i top 50 and will welcome nine 
ranked teams to Notre Dame, including second-ranked Duke. 
Notre Dame opens the season against DePaul in Minneapolis, 
r:,1iuu., on friday, Jan. 22. 
Under 10-year head coach .Jay Louderback, Notre Dame is 
one ofnine. schools to. have at least three singles players among 
the 100 ranked players and one of just S(WN1 to have at least 
two doubles teams among the .50 ranked tMms. 
' 1'he Irish singles contingent is lead by sophomore Michelle 
Dasso, ranked 23rd in the country. Dasso advanced to the 
quarterfinals oi' the T. Rowe Prict) National Clay Court champi­
onship in September and compiled a 6-4 record in the fall. Two 
9f her six wins came against top-20 players, including a win 
over seventh-ranked Julie Ditty of Vanderbilt, with all four loss­
es coming to players ranked above her in the latest rankings, 
Freshman Becky Varnum, who went 13-5 in the fall, enters Jllexa9kings for the first time tied at No. 51 and is ranked high· er than all but four freshm'en in the country. Varnum posted two oyer Eastern Michigan's 41st-rankcd Jean Kansuthi. Irish senior All•American Jennifer Hall rounds out the ranked Irish singl(;}s players at 100. '' The Irish women's doubles teams of freshman Nina Vaughan 
and junior Kelly Zalinski enters the rankings at No. 37 with the 
team of Dasso and Hall right behind at No. 39. Unranked in tlHi 
preseason, Vaughan and Zalinski went 6-3 during the fall and 
advanced to the quarterfinals of the ITA Midwest Region cham­
pionship. 

The Observer I Kevin Dnlum 

Junior Ryan Sachire is ranked third in the country to head up the No. 24 Notre Dame men's tennis team. 
Sachire tops men's squad 
Special to The Observet 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team has been ranked 24th in the country heading into the 1999 dual-mateh season. accord­ing to the Intercollegiate Tennis Association which released tho .. rankings on Tuesday. 
The Irish, who finished 20-10 a year ago, will play 12 match­es against ranked teams and will welcome seven ranked teams to Notre Dame, including fifth-ranked Illinois, seventh-ranked Texas and 10th-ranked Duke. ·• Notre Dame opens the season by playing host to DePaul, Miami (Ohio) and William & Mary in tho adidas Quad M!let on Sat., Jan. 23. 
Individually for 12-year head coach Bob Bayliss and his men's team, junior Hyan Sachire is ranked third in the country in ... men's singles. the highest ranking for a Notre Dame tennis player since David DiLucia finished the 1992 regular season us the top-ranked player in the country. Entering the fall rankud eighth, Sachire went 12-3 and advanced to the final of the ITA All-American championship, the second leg of the [TA colltl· giate grand slam. 
Five of Sachire's 12 wins came against players now in tho top 50 and two in the top 10. All three losses came to players cur­rently ranked in the top 13, incl1.1dlng a loss to top-ranked Jam.es Bla.ke of Harvard in the ITA All-American championship match. 

SCHIIVINN 
BAKER'S CYCLING & FITNESS WE ALSO CARRY 2n-8866 
• 
DIAMONDBACK TUES t:30A-7:00P BIG BIKE 

• 
ROBINSON WED. FRI t:30A -8:00P SALE ON


ft SAT & MON t:30A-5:00P CLOSEO SUN 
THE 12TH 

' BIKES FOR ALL AGE$_. 

w 
Wednesday, December 9, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 22 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL
.. 
Freshmen lead Irish to win over Providence in league opener 
Asso,iated Pres~ his two foul shots with 8 sec­
onds left clinched the win for 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. Notre DamA (4-5), which was 
Troy Murphy scored a 68 percent from the field on game-high 30 points to lead 15-of-22 shooting in the sec­Notre Dame to a 83-80 win ond half. over Providence College on Murphy. who Tuesday in the Big East open­was 11-of-16 from er for both teams. the field and 
Providence (6-3). which had grabbed a game­its six-game winning streak high 11 rebounds, snapped, pulled to within 81-tied the highest 79 on Corey Wright's 3-point­point total by a er in the closing seconds. Hut freshman in a Big Murphy was then fouled, and East opening 

Freshman Troy Murphy sparked the Irish to victory over Providence with 30 points and 11 rebounds. 

$85.00 + Tax per night 1-2 persons 
TOYOTA GATOR BOWL GAME 
DECEMBER 31/JANUARY I 1-95 only 3 miles from stadium and have easy highway access­exit to the stadium. Ample parking space is available, outdoor pool, video games and many other amenities of franchise Hotel available. We offer special rates $85.00 + Tax per night 1-2 persons ($10 extra per person) We offer king, double, smok­ing/non smoking and connecting rooms at one flat rate for foot­ball weekend. Please reserve special rate rooms by phone or fax (prcferable)stating room type, number of persons, credit card details, full name address to send back confirmation. Express check will be ready on arrival. First come First serve basis only. 
904-398-3333 
or 1-800-653-1498 FAX: 904-398-4849 

HOWARD JOHNSON HOTEL (FORMERLY COMFORT INN) 
ON 1-95 EXIT 104, EMERSON ST. (TURN RIGHT) 

.... 
Don't pay high rates in Jacksonville. Great rooms in Daytona Beach under $50.00 a night. Only an hour away from the stadium. 
Call Team CD "''10-498-3292 
game. Sean Connolly and utive 3-pointers, one from Harold Swanagan .and Jamel Thomas each had 21 Jamal Camah and two from Murphy. points for the Friars. Connolly. Notre Dame then The friars closed the deficit 
Providence broke out to a went on a 32-7 run in the next to 39-31 at halftime. 13-2 lead in the opening min­11 minutes, with a combined Graves finished with 17 utes sparked by three consec-28 points from David Graves, points and Swanagan with 13. 
The only thing better than an iMac: 
An iMac for less than $29.99/mo/ 
Apple Computer couldn't make iMac any easier to set up or use. So 
they made it easier to buy. Now, if you're a student, you can get an iMac for less than $29,99 per month, with the first payment not due for 120 days. For about what you'd spend on a few pizzas, you can have a superfast computer that can get f you onto the Internet in 10 min­
·.• ,f. . ••. . . . . .. 
utes right out of the box. You 
~·$2:~iog~~ ~::~::1 :~~~i:!~ 
fli~iF) ·• ··.· · · ·•··•·· savings, for things like software, , games and accessories. 
Check out the Apple Student Loan Program Call 1-800-277-5356 
The gifts keep coming because you also get acoupon book worth $2,000 in additional value for software, games and accessories and a $30 RAM upgrade credit. 

Available in the 

Office of Student Affairs 
::"... /· i. HL ;:T fe, :•~, ,;<:! ··» . 
-=:· :: ;'. .":,:?'.\/ :t~:-::?,f. .··;,~··. ·,:~ ,..•··,,;••.•• !;·...J,;;;,:•·•1'•·•· 

202 Hurley Bu1·1d1·ng-:':' ,.,.,.,·,··.:~:::../::-':'?W(~:,:,•··:$:::.:;: 
·,,-..:~i:'.::;::~;:::/\?~(:/;>r-,'•·:: .;1.,,,,,,.....,...........................................==~====..............====--....... 
page 23 The Observer• TODAY Wednesday, December 9, 1998 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
JUST WANT~ 1(1[), 1, '/-1 SAN1i4 CLAUS -rHING Fol? c11R1sr"AS NOT JE:5U5 A 1/.o <;PA. 
DAY: Beau Bridges, Redd Foxx, John Malkovich, Kirk Douglas 
Happy Birthday: You'll be power· ful in everything you do this year. Your courage and strength will far exceed any opponent you face. Your determination to reach your goals will lead,ou down some interesting paths an bring you all sorts of wis­dom. Your strong beliefs and your high energy will 1-ielp you accomplish all that you set out to do. Your num­bers: 8, 13, '21, 36, 39, 46 
ARIES (March 21·April 19): You can do very well in speculative money matters. Spend time with chil­
····--...... 0. -· .... , "--. 
be a winner if you avoid fast-c,1, deals. Stay away from joint finanr,, extravaganzas. Expect proble111 with deals that appear too easy. D011 sign anything until you have the Of 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): f'1 some effort into family outings an pleasure trips. Disagreements w, only result in anger. It's best to all(,· the other person some dignity; you get the same in return. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 You'll work well with others if y,, roll up your sleeves and help thn who are not in as high a positio· 
.. 

BILL AMEND dren or close friends and don'I forget Your energy should be directed in,
FOXTROT 
WHAT "RE  lltESE, :TASoNE?ER,  I HA'/£ CoME HERE  To 6E  To MoT WII.S"TE  
ALL ntoSE  ARE lltE CABLES oF  TONIGHT To WARN  MoRE  MoNEYONTHIS  
CoROS  TI-{E MANY V10E0  You, ~A'ioNEZER.--.____  GENE~S  oNE BRAND oF  
WRAPPE'P  GAME co~TRoLlERS  WITH MY  :rom1ck. ntE  
ARouNO  I SELF1iHL'l CLUNG  Toys?  FtRE SuTTol'il  
'l'OU'.I'  To IN LIFE-)  \  IS SLUG61SH.,,  

to keep in shape. Don't sign docu­reaching your deadline. 0000 ments without proper advice. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be You should be on the go again. Tra, prepared to take on the world today. and involvement in large groups w, Both home and work will be emotion­bring knowledge. Someone may I ally draining for you. Try to stick to out to get revenge. Keep in mind th yourself and focus on what needs to the sweetest revenge is your 01, be done, 00000 success, 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Look CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 14 into lucrative but safe investments. It's best to do your own thing an You'll make financial gains if you refuse to let anyone hold you back. I make selective choices. A co-worker careful not !Cl overindulge in sp1, may not be totally honest. Changes in foods, or stomach problems will sh, your work environment are likely. you down. 00000 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. H 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Limit New partnerships can be formulah spending today and you'll feel a lot now that you're in a position to ,, better when your monthly bills come the rules. Your belief in yourself a,· in. You don't have to buy people's your abilities will lead you lo the su love and reSp<!Ct. Give your time and cess you're looking for. 000 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS love and you'll do just fine. 0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): St. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Changes in calm and it will be hard for other~ your living quarters may appear be angry with you. Get to the bott,, unacceptable at first. Give things of things and don't count on anyth11
t Cll.EAT£.O A. COr-\PLt"f. tT5 O~~t-P-OU5 If YOO 
l!.U't T~I\T O'ION'T 
a chance to settle down. You may that's not in writing. Be precise a,HNI\NC11\L t'\OOtl OON'i Ut-.l0c.R.5T"~O i.1. find that the end result is to your astute and you'll do just fine. 000
51'0P ~!M F'SI-OM 
advantage. 000
FO~ OUR COMP J\N 'f. 
I NV'c:NTI NG, TH£
I TMA.Th C,.)1-\A.T 

L.I.G1-fft;Ul..e,.
i~E.'( 1'0\.0 _____, l..I.NO ~tll.G~... 
.,,.,,..._,,_, .,. ,_,,,., 
·11,1 f)F INT~Refr,$l 
'.fuf' 
<11t.e 1999-Special Olympics Games, to be held in ;fl')l~!!Jhk-D"-rham-.Cbapel Hill, North Carolina, June :a6.~_J-.dy,4,.\99?.1is in need of volunteers. ND stu­'cleutswishmfto.w8:rk as volunteers will be provided 
CROSSWORD with free rooQl and board by local alumni during the time they are in1North Carolina. Please register onlineat www~99GAMES.COM by December 31, 1998 
ACROSS :z1 Henry ll's house 49 Luxury home 

··· · · l\te~,s:,Contact Prof. Philip Carter through
30 ___ Felipe features , Jolly 

. 50 Some 
~l PhiUB:..carter@ncsu.edu for housing infor· 
•Affected 3t Settled, 1n a way supplements 
,\The ~•carotma Girl," Suzanne Witt and Ellen 
15 Not very 32 Modern name 53 Royal rival 
W-1sltHall, 634-2639, can provide infor­
important ofTyre 54 "Volpone• 
t the area.
HBrogue 33Madelit penner 
>'~)\; 1~

11 Wole Soyinka, 35 Trace 55 Relative of 

lorone 39-out(do perlite 1a Dissatisfied nothing) sa Picks customer's 
40 Passion 59 Glittery trim demand personified 60 Mother of mercy
111Not right 41 Exercise &t Risk 
:zoMocking 
42 Edward :z2 Whitewash Gibbon's 
DOWN
ingredient SUbJeCt 
:Z38elt 46 Gold Seal co. 1 Francesco de! Giocondo's wife
:zs Subject of one 47Class,c of Plutarch's documentary :zNot ·uves· "Manoi-" sympathetic 
26 Hard water 411Tinybit 3 Organize rigidly 4"-Eyes" 
(1969hit) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s Outside of France?
MONOPOLY 
6 Calendar abbr. 
27 Punc. mark 43Jim Palmer was s:zArcheologist'sNalta ratifier one handle
Mild 28 On terra firma 44 Bearing 53 Chichi ­
Ring combatant 29 Semblance 34 Fade away 
45 Future year JapanFarm team 
35 M1ttimus or 49 Seville or De Ville 56 Coal container mandamus 
51 Molders s1Not up 36 Bruise t 3 Embellished discoloration 1411 may be hard 37 Step up Answers to any three clues in this puzzle to trade are available by touch-tone phone: 
38 Syllog,st 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
21 Skunk 40 One of a series Annual subscriptions are available for the 


A P I E C E V E R O N E S E 23 Maintain 
42 Simple best of Sunday crosswords from the last M A P L E S P R O P E R T Y :z4 Sally propulsion unit 50 years: t-888-7-ACROSS 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The 
Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name _____________________ 
Address --------------------------­
City ________ State ____Zip______ 

¦ NBA cancels All-Star ¦ Former players, ¦ The men's basket­game because ofcon­coach are inducted into ball team opened its tinuing lock-out. College Football Hall Big East season with a 
of Fame wih over Providence.








PORTS 
p.17 p.16 
O 
THE 
page 24 ----------------Wednesday, December 9, 1998
BSERVER 
¦ FOOTBALL 
Gator Bowl win could set '99 pace 
By BILL HART  Seminoles from 12 points down  things. the answer to that ques­ 
A,sistanl Sports Editor  gave them  a 31-26 victory over  tion is yes.  
the Trish. Two years ago, the  Despite suffering  an  MCL  
It's that time of year.  team declined ofTers of"postsea­ injury in the closing minutes of  
College football fans from all  son play following a 27-20 loss to  the LSU game, ls reported to be  
over lhe nation will be turning on  USC  recovering well, and should be  
their television sets to celebrate  back at full strength by the time  
the new year by rooting on their  the team travels to Jacksonville  
favorite teams. The situation will be no different for fans of  Watch the Gator  on Dec. 26. For the rest of the team, serious preparations for  
Fightin· Irish football, as l 8th­ranhid Notre Dame will face ofT  Bowl at 12:30  the game will begin following the end of final exams.  
....  against No. 12 Georgia Tech in the Toyota Gator Bowl on Jan. 1, 1999. While bowl gam~s are familiar  p.m. EST on Jan.ri6 I on  While Jackson's possible return is welcome news, he will have to start his comeback tour against a Georgia Tflch squad  
territory for the Irish over the decades, the past few years have  NBC.  that is greatly improved from its 17-13 loss when the two teams  
been none to kind to fans of the  met last year. Led by experi­ 
Gold and Blue. Following a 24-21  These facts still dwell in the  enced  quarterback  Tim  
win over Texas A&M in the 1994  hearts and minds of the coaches  Hamilton, the Yellow Jackets  
Cotton Bowl, Notre Dame has  and players. but a question that  went 9-2 this season to tie for  
gone 0-3 during the holiday sea­ lingers minds of most fans is  first with Florida State in the  
son. Last year, a 27-9 loss to L',U  much easier lo decipher: Will  Atlantic Coast Conference.  
in the Independence Row! ended  quarterback Jarious Jackson be  After  falling  7 -34  to  the  
a five-game winning streak.  fully healed by the time the Irish  Seminoles, the team swept their  
Three years ago, a fourth-quar­ take the field?  last four games of the season, The Observer I Kevin Dalum  
ter rally by the Florida State  Fortunately, from the looks of  capped by a 21-19 victory over A key factor for the Irish in their New Year's Day bowl against Georgia Tech will be the health of quarterback Jarious Jackson.  
see BOWL/ page 21  
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL  


Irish hoopsters can't keep up with No. 1 Connecticut 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT

Huskies press 
The time hasn't come 

dominates game 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Spores Ediror

By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assiscam Sports Editor This was supposed to be it. Coming into last night's game This was going to be the game with their best-ever season in which Notre Dame finally got 
start or six-straight wins, Notre 
the monkey off its back and Dame went to the Joyce Center burst into the national spotlight with a No. 6 ranking and their with its first-ever win over best chance to snap their 0-8 Connecticut. series record against Not so fast. 
Connecticut. Last night, UConn proved 
But the Huskies, who lead why they are the top-ranked the national rankings, team in the nation as they remained undefeated (7-0) defeated the Irish for the ninth with a convincing 106-81 win consecutive time in just four in both team's first Big East years. The Irish put forth a game. valiant effort, but the Huskies 
· The Huskies built three 14-quickly took the fight out of the poi nt leads in the first half Fighting Irish and rolled to a including the 51-3 7 halftime 106-81 victory. lead on a defense that prevent­"I think we knew we had a c d the Irish from getting good chance and this was our underneath the basket. best chance, but we didn't get Connecticut relied on an it done," captain ShBila 
unrelenting press to keep McMillen said. "They played Notre Dame from passing the aggressive and I think we came ball inside to 6-foot-5 center out and played okay, but their 
Ruth Riley. The sophomore press really killed us in the first came into the contest averag­half and got us down." ing 13.8 points per game but The Irish committed 21 first­was unable to land a point half turnovers and :n for the from the noor in the first half, entire game. Big East presea­shooting 0-for-4. son playBr of tlrn year Svetlana 
"I thought if we could get Abrosimova lit up the Irish for some pressure on their guards 23 points on 9-of-16 shooting. up front in the backcourt, that "She's outstanding," head might make it difficult to get coach Muffet McGraw said. "I [Riley! involved in the offense," definitely think she is the play­said Connecticut head coach er of the year right now ... aftnr Geno Auriemma. one gamP." 
Dflspite going 6-for-6 from The Huskies also got 48 the charity stripe. Riley took bench points. only two more from the field in "I think overall they are bet­the tinal half. ter [than they have been in the 
The defensive pressure past]." McMillen said. "They allowed the Huskies to create a are more balanced then they have been in the past and that 
see BASKETBALL/ page 20 
see INSIGHT/ page 20 


at Gacr:.lr Bowl 
vs. Eastern Kentucky 
vs. Georgia Tech, Jan. I


SPORTS 

Saturday, Dec. 19, 2 p.rn. 
at North Dakota
ATA 
Jan. 2, 7 p.m.

vs, Villanova Saint Mary's Basketball Saturday, 2 p.rn. vs. Olivet College
GLANCE Today, 7:30 p.m. 






