
~--------------------------------------------·---------------------------------------------------­
• The Parseghian Etmily fights a rare genetic 
• When does the pep rally start? How late is the 
Friday
disease through the eff()m of a special research 
bookstore open? Look to this weekend's Schedule of 
f()llf1dation. 
Events for answers 
OCTOBER2, 
•
News • 3 
News·10 
1998 

THE 


VOL XXXII NO 30 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
B~~k;i~re slated for spring demolition Conference By BRAD UNTIED·~ · . • .. . . . draws SMC 
Nt•w, Writ.r .. · . 
NPxt spring, thn c!xisling bookstore building bntwnnn Badin llall and the 

president
Knights of Columbus building will bo c!Pmolislwd and rf!plitc:Pd with a nPw By COLLEEN McCARTHY $14-million farility that will house Saint Mary's News Editor Campus Ministry and snvoral student 
acadPmic snrviens. Saint Mary's Collngn prnsident 
Tlw proposl'd .lamns and Lnah Hae MariiOLr Eldn1d celebrated lwr affilia­Morsl' Cnntnr will lw tlw nnw location of tion with a womon 's college last tlw First YPar of Studies program, along weekend at the annual Women's with thn ;\c:adl'rnic Snrvkns for Studnnt­College Coalition meeting in 
AthiPlPs. Washington D.C. 
Tlw LcHtrning Hnsourcn CPntnr will The eonferenee afforded presidents also movn to tlw nnw Morsn Cnntnr, of more than 80 women's eolleges placing it closnr to tlw First Ynar of from throughout the United States StudiPs. Tlw facility will also inc:orpo­and Canada the opportunity to dis­ratt' a rww writing cPntnr and computPr euss mission statements and market­
dustnr. ing techniques of women's eolleges 
Tlw Colnman Family Cnntc1r for as well as other issues of common Campus Ministry will housn of'licns for part of the Coleman Center. University president Father Edward eoneern. Campus Ministry's programs in spiritu­"The programs to be housed in the Malloy in a press release. "Tom Many women's eollngns aro ality, rntrPats, campus liturgies and Coleman and Morse Centers arc at the Coleman and Jim and Leah Rae Morse expanding their missions to serve a rPiigious mlucalion. Hnhnarsal space for heart of Notrr, Dame's mission as a top­have our most heartfelt gratitude for broader group of women through campus choirs, a rnligious education tier university grounded in the Catholie classroom and a nnw chapel will also be faith and intellectual tradition," said see DEMOLISH I page 4 see ELDRED I page 4 
. FRIDAY fEATIJRE 
ADMITTING WHO FILLS THE SEATS 
Preferential allotment, i interest-keeping 
I 
I'
,I 
1: characterize system 
r 
By ANNE MARIE to Cunningham. MATTINGLY "The drawing for thn most 
1: Assistant News Editor highly demanded game is 
perf(Jrnwd first," he said. "If Each year, thousands of you lose or don't apply, you
~ 
alumni hope to return to have a better ehanee to win
j: 
their alma mater to partic­the next time. This process is ipate in one of the most rec­repeated until winners fiJr all
i 
ognized aspects of the Notre games have been deter­Dame expe-r-11'!'!"!!!!,.,,.~....., mined."
r 

coveted tickets. Who wins, of the pre-payments go into 
who loses, and how does the thn University gmwral fund, 
University dceidc'? whore thny earn interest 
An alumnus ean apply for during tlw six-wePk lottnry tickets for any or all of the 11 process, said Cunningham. games of the season by filling Thereforn, though the 
out a simple applieal.ion, exact amount for tickets is according to Bubba repaid in full, Notre Dame Cunningham, associate kneps all the aeenwd intnr­director of Finance and est. At least $1 million was Facilities of the department refunded during the lottery 
I 
of athletics. for the 11J1J8-IJIJ season,
I 
I But there's only 32,000 Cunningham said. tickets per game to go But Cunningham said that around. A computer system system is not designod to selects winners and uses a make money. weighted lottery designed to "It is absolutely not help as many people as pos­sible get a ticket, aceording see TICKETS I page 6 
The Observer/Brei Hogan 
S
ix weekends eaeh autumn, 80,012 football fans attend games in Notre Dame Stadium courtesy of a ticket distribution system that greatly favors the University's benefaetors. 

rience home foot­ball games. 
~ 
Not every­
I' 
" one is lucky
" 
enough to win those 
~" =~=-''""' •HI 
/\pplieations, eomplete with full paymnnts, are due
• "Alumni 
by mid-May, and lottnry
Opinions" 
results and refunds are sent
phow poll 
out by mail in early July. 
p.6 
But while tho alumni ago­nize, their monc1y grows. All page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The epitome ofstrength 
When I was pinning the pink ribbon to my backpack yesterday in honor of the start of National Breast Cancer Awareness month, I realized all the symbolism and memories that it held for myself, my C M C h 
0 11
family and anyone een c art Y whose lives have been Saint Mary's News Editor touched by the disease. 
I sat down and began thinking about the day in December when my mom -awife, sister, daughter and aunt-was diagnosed with breast cancer. 
Until that day, the words malignant and chemotherapy had never crossed my mind. Nor had I ever seen the fear in my mom's eyes as I did when she left for the hospital to have her surgery. How could my mom, my best friend, have breast cancer? 
The ribbon brought another wave of memo­ries. I was standing back in the hospital room after my mom came back from surgery. She lay in the bed looking pale and fragile. An IV stood next to the bed and her hair was mat­ted down after hours in surgery. It was hard for my 11-year-old eyes to handle. 
As time went by after her surgery, which the doctors pronounced a success, my mom faced more challenges, and my family and I tried to help her through them. She endured six months of chemotherapy. This meant see­ing her -a woman always full of energy ­fatigued. It meant giving her a hug and hold­ing her as she cried during our family vaca­tion to Florida after emerging from the show­er and telling me that handfuls of her hair began to fall out as she was washing it. Watching my mom fight breast cancer, I real­ized she is, for me, the epitome of strength. 
Every three months, my mom goes back to her oncologist for tests to make sure the can­cer hasn't returned. After eight years, the nervous feeling for her and our family antici­pating the results hasn't diminished. 
That's why I feel this month is so signifi­cant. It's a month to remember those who have survived the disease and those whose lives this cancer has taken. It's a time for all of us to take action. Do whatever it takes to make people aware of the disease. Buy the stamp that is out to commemorate Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Participate in next week's walk and run taking place at Notre Dame to raise money for breast cancer research. If you are a woman, get a mammQ­gram or give yourself regular self-breast exams. Stop by the Grotto this weekend and light a candle for all the survivors of the dis­ease and those who have lost their battle. It's the combination of these small efforts that aid in the fight against this terrible disease which touches so many lives. 
Remember this month and beyond that one in nine women will develop breast cancer. It is taking the lives of peoples' mothers, wives, sisters, aunts, daughters and grandmothers. Can we really sit back and just watch this happen? ~ 
I know that for the rest of my life, I will be an advocate of breast cancer awareness. I live daily with thoughts that there is always a chance that my mom's cancer could recur or that I might one day develop breast cancer. I only hope I could be as strong as my mom. I think about my friends and my cousins, too. I never want to have to hear that they have been diagnosed with breast cancer. That's why I pray every day for a cure and do what­ever I can, even if it is a gesture as small as pinning a pink ribbon on my backpack, to aid the fight against breast cancer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY's STAFf 
Scene 
News Sarah Dylag Derek Betcher Kristi Klitsch Erica Thesing Graphics Brad Unteidt 
Joe Mueller Sports Anne Marie Mattingly Anthony Bianco Production Viewpoint Colleen McCarthy Spencer Stefko Lab Tech Liz Lang 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through criday except during exam and vac;~don periods. The Observer is a member of rhe A'~ociated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Friday, October 2, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Racial incident at Kalamazoo destroys students' dorm room 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

In an incident similar to the racial hate crimes of the 1950s and '60s, the residence hall room of a black first­year student at Kalamazoo College was destroyed by fire Monday morn­ing. 
School officials suspect arson was the cause of the fire, and the motiva­tion stems back to an incident that occurred during summer orientation. 
In a letter sent to the parents of Kalamazoo College students, President James Jones Jr. said the black student read an original poem during a poetry reading last month that stressed the importance of judg­ing an individual on the content of their character-not their skin color. 
A letter advocating the elimination of all non-white students from cam­pus was posted on the door of his res­idence hall room Sunday. 
Eighteen hours later, a fire was dis­covered in the two students' room. 
Neither the student nor his white roommate were present at the time of the fire. The Kalamazoo fire marshal has classified the fire's origin as "undetermined." 
A school known for a high degree of diversity and tolerance, Kalamazoo College is doing its best to cope with the incident, said John Greenhoe, the school's director of public and media relations. 
"We as a community are definitely hurting," Greenhoe said. "But the stu­dents have said they will not tolerate this type of hatred. There is no place for it on our campus, and they will not stand for it." 
Many Kalamazoo College students said they are feeling the effects of the episode. 
"I am deeply disturbed by this," Kalamazoo College first-year student Jacob Metcalf said. "One of the main reasons I came here was I thought everyone would be comfortable with themselves and (each other's) ideas. It is startling." 
Metcalf said he is also concerned that the incident will tarnish the school's reputation. 
"I want to make sure everyone understands that Kalamazoo College is not a place t.hat harbors racial hatred," he said. 
Students have exhibited a strong sense of support for nach other this week, Greenhoe said. 

• YALE UNIVERSITY 
Ivy League papers call for resignation 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

The media frenzy over the Clinton scandal is no longer confined to Washington. It has also spread to college newspapers across the nation. After major papers such as USA Today, the Washington Times and The Philadelphia Inquirer called for President Bill Clinton, LAW '73, to resign, six of the eight Ivy League college newspapers fol­lowed suit. Only Brown University and Dartmouth College declined to ask the Commander-in-Chief to step down. Even Clinton's undergraduate alma mater, Georgetown University, wrote a scathing staff editorial calling for the President's resignation because Clinton won't be effective in office. The Columbia Daily Spectator and The Cornell Daily-Sun were the first to react to the Clinton scandal which has polarized the entire nation. Both papers demanded the President's resignation the Monday after Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr released his 445-page report. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY Harrassment laws may cover students 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Harvard's legal responsibility regarding sexual harass­ment may soon change. Yesterday, the Supreme Court agreed to hear a case that will decide whether sexual harassment is a type of discrimination and if federal civil rights law protects those who are harassed by other stu­dents. The case raises the question of whether schools can be found liable for one student's harassment of another. Davis vs. Monroe County Board of Education involves a girl who was repeatedly harassed by a boy in her fifth grade class but whose teacher and principal took no action despite numerous complaints by the girl. Filed under Title IX of the Federal Education Act, the suit ques­tions whether schools would be liable for damages if a school official knew of the harassment but did little or nothing about it. A lawyer within the Harvard's General Counsel's Office said he is not sure whether the case will apply to private universities such as Harvard. 
• OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY Study finds faults in assault programs 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Sexual assault educational programs are not effective in helping women reduce their risk of sexual assault, accord­ing to an Ohio State study. A study performed in the 1997­98 school year indicated women who participated in a sexual assault education program were just as likely to be assaulted as women who didn't participate in any type of assault program. "The results of this study showed that women were more informed about sexual assault," said Kim Breitenbecher, co-author of the study and assistant professor of psychology at the OSU Newark campus. "Although the program didn't lower the number of assaults, it did help ·educate women." Breitenbecher con­ducted the study with Michael Scarce, former coordinator of the Rape Education and Prevention Program, as a fol­low-up to a study a year ago measuring the effectiveness of a similar prevention program at the OSU main campus. Results from the previous year were also negative. 
• VIRGINIA TECH 
Police end search for student 
BLACKSBURG, Va. 

The West Virginia State Police Department has ended its search of a Virginia Tech student reported missing last week. Robert Kovac was last seen around 5 p.m., Sept. 18, at his Terrace View apartment in northwest Blacksburg, according to the Blacksburg police report. "We terminated our search (Wednesday)," said Sgt. W.S. Moore of the West Virginia State Police. "We searched everything need­ed." Moore said the department, in conjunction with the National Park Service, searched the New River Gorge Bridge, 45 miles off of Route 19 in West Virginia, side roads, the New River and conducted extensive aerial and ground searches or each area. "We interviewed between 30 and 40 people searching for him," Moore said. Between 50 and 75 friends and family members of Kovac plan to continue an independent search, Moore said. Jackie Kovac. Hobert's mother, said yesterday she did not want to comment. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
.....:... J  .........  H  L  
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday  ~ ~5 ~ ~ ~  61 37 6 44 65 45 74 53 74 55  

Aspen 61 30 Los Angeles 78 62 Savannah 81 64
9,~,~9.6.foQ-r1 ~ u 
Berkeley 65 49 Miami 92 78 Seattle 60 48 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 90 68 

Omaha 51 47 Tampa 90 71 
V1a AssocJaled Press GraphJCsNet 
Denver 68 52 Portland 62 50 Wichita 60 57 

5 Day South Uend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Friday, October 2. 
Vta Assoctated Press 

Anchorage 48 28 Fargo 56 39 Reno 66 37 
friJay, October 2, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Parseghians work to cure rare childhood disease 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
\,tint ~1.try\ hliror 
Cindy l'arsPghian rPnwmlwrs lwr daughtc•r's (Pars wlwn llH'y shan·cl tlw i>Pdtinw story "What I Want to lw Wlwn I (;row Up." 
On Christmas night last yc'ar. 'J-ypar-olcl Marcia rril'cl as lwr m;1tiH•r rlosl'cl thl' hook; She• rPalizPd that shP and lwr 7 -yPar­old sistc•r C:hrista prolial>ly wouldn't have' till' rhanc·p to grow up to IJpc·onH• dortors. astronauts. prPsidPIItS or moth­
Prs. 
Till' two girls sulll'l' from tlw ran•. alwavs fatal. IH'lll'odi').(Pn­l'l'ativP cli~Pasc! NiPmann-l'irk TypP C:-a disc•asP thal riaimPel thl' lif'P of lhPir oldl'r hrolhl'l' \lirhaPI Olll'-and-a-half' )'Pars ago. four days llC'forP his lOth birthday. 
"I just told lwr that IHHH' of us know how or wlwn wp'rp going to diP." Llw girls' motlwr said. "WI' don't know (;od's plans for us. WI' haVC' to liVP C'arh day to llw fulll'sl." 
I.Pss than !iOO rhildrem iii tho Unitl'd Stall's arC' C'slimatC'd to havl' tlH! gPIWlic: dysfunetion that prPVC'nls edls from corrnet­ly nwtabolizing eholnstnrol. ThrcH! of Cindy and Mike l'arsnghian's four ehildrnn inlwrilPd NimlHllln-l'ic.k. 
AflPr lhP initial blow, thn Tucson coupiC' and tlw chil­drPns' grandfathnr, formnr Notre• llamn football coarh Ara I' a rsPgh ian. hl'gan llw Ara l'arsl'ghian Mndiral Ht!SC'arrh l;cHtndation. 
Tlw foundation 
Sinw I 99!i. thn foundation has IH'ipPd fund I(, laboratorins arross lhl' nation and raised more• I han $(, million in an nfl'ort to romlml tlw disPasn. 
Today, lwfore• lhn Parsl'ghians atlt'nd lhl' P~'P rally. tlwy will lnarn of llw latnsl r!!Snarrh n•sulls at tlw f\nmdation 's annu­al hoard llH'Pling. 
"If WI' don't havn hopn, wn 

Photo courtesy of the Parseghian family 

The grandchildren of former Notre Dame head football coach Ara Parseghian have been touched by a rare 
disease that will continue to claim their lives until a foundation set up by Parseghian discovers a cure. 
Pictured above are (clockwise from top) Parseghian and grandchildren Ara, Marcia, Christa and Michael. 
don't have_ anything," coach Cindy said. "Right now, people inheriting it is one in four, while Parseghian said. "We just have cannot know if they are carriers the odds that three children in to hope for thn best." or not." one family will have the disease 
With help from the foundation, Coach Parseghian has often is one in 64. rnsnarch has been compiling likened the foundation's work in The disease progresses as the quickly. battling Niemann-Pick to his accumulation of cholesterol in 
Just wnoks boforo Michael's own experiences in coaching. the cells finally destroys the cells dnath, scientists at the National "Hight now, we're in four-of the brain, liver, spleen, lungs lnstilulos of llnalth identified the down position," he said. "We're and bone marrow. Cause of gnno thought to dnvt'lop the dis-past the nnemy's 50-yard line, death is usually the failure of nasn. just short of the 30. We're in a one or more organs within 10 
Laboratorios are currently position to score soon." years of diagnosis. eonennlrating on the impact of As the Parseghians have eholeslnrol and the neurological The odds and progression of learned, Niemann-Pick is unpre­basis of the disoase and using Niemann-Piek dictable. lab mien to lest drugs which Cindy and Mike both carry~he "We never expected to lose might dday tho onsnt of the dis-recessive gene which was inher-Michael so soon," Cindy said ease. ited by all of their children about her son, who family mem­
ln Janu<iry. tho Mayo Clinic except the oldest, Ara, 14, bnrs rnmembor best wearing his plans to opon a diagnostic lest-named after his grandfather. cowboy hat. "We thought we ing center for Niemann-Pick About one in one million chil-would have more time with Typn C. dren are born with Niemann-him." 
"This is going to hr,lp all of the Pkk. If both parents carry the In the beginning, Cindy and f'amilins afl'octml by tho disoasn," g1me. each child's chance of Mike noticed Michael tripping. 
Doctors told them not to worry 
-he was just going through a 
clumsy stage. 
The disease progressed, and 
Michael regressod while in 
kimiPrgartcm. 
The key to diseovoring the 
mysterious sick1iess was in his 
irregular eye movmnent and 
enlarged spleen. 
Tests later confirmed that 
Christa and Marcia suffered 
from Niemann-Pick as well. 
"I was stunnod. I couldn't 
believe what was happnning 
when I heard the news," coach 
Parseghian said. "I was in a fog, 
and to tell you the truth, I hale 
to even think about it or talk 
about it." 
Now, as the girls' young bod­
ies sutTer from all-too-familiar 
deterioration, family members 
know what lies ahead. 
"Unfortunately, it's progress­ing, and we'ro seeing a lot of the same symptoms we saw in Michael," Cindy said. 
Niemann-Pick has unusually developed more rapidly in their younger child Christa, age 7. 
Her words are slurred and her reasoning skills are equivalent to those of a 4-year-old. In addi­tion, her motor skills and muscle· functioning have all but van­ished. 
Even laughter has brought pain for the family. 
"When she laughs very hard or cries hard, she loses all mus­cle control and collapses to the floor,:· Cindy said. "She crumples just liko a rag doll." 
'Being tough' on the outside 
As much as they sometimes feel like it, the adults in the fam­ily know that they must not let their emotions out of cheek. 
"After coaching, I was always 

'RIGHT Now, 
WE'RE IN 

FOUR-DOWN POSITION. 
WE'RE PAST THE 
ENEMY'S 50-YARD 
LINE, JUST SHORT OF 
THE 30. WE'RE IN A 

POSITION TO SCORE.' 
AHt1 P.. IRSHGl/IAN 

FORM/iff fR!S/1 FOOTIJAU. COAC/1 
ON TilE IJEVEUJI'MHNT OF A CUR!:' 
FOR NIEMANN-PU.'K IJISEASI.i 

looking forward to being a grandfather," said coach Parseghian, who spends his days working in the South Bend branch of the foundation or doing promotions for awareness. 
"I can't explain what it's like for this to happen. You hav11 happy times with them and treat them as normally as possible. The whole lime, you have a heavy heart, but you can't express it fadally or with bnhav­ior." 
As a parent, Cindy realizes there is only so much she can let lhn ehildrnn know about thnir life and its length. 
''I've never roally told them about thn progrnssion of the dis­case," Cindy said. "I don't think that's somothing thny should know. They can still set shorl­tnrm drcmms and livo for thosn." 
Tlwir dreams come in simple forms like birthday parties or a day at thn park. 
Adding up the pennies 

Fundraisers have brought in 
monetary sums from pnnnies to 
"grands." Donation and charity 
ell'orts around tlw country haw 
becm an uplifting nxpPriPIH'.e for 
thn l'arsnghians. 
The ba1~1W·a~~ J16rlrf~Jr}nnu ,it. 
bennf'it concnrl last wintnr at 
Notrn Dame. donating JH're:m)l­
ages of' its prococHis up to 
$200,000. Brian Boitano and 
othnr world-class figurn skalnrs 
have also given to the charity 
with b11nefit perf(lrmanc:ns. 
Little girls have hostod lmnon­
ade stands devotnd to thn cause, 
while other children givo up 
th11ir birthday pres1~nts to donatn 
to the foundation. 
At thn childrnn's school, class­
mates have raised 2 million pnn­
nies -$20,000 -in hopes of 
finding a cure. 
Pasquerilla East is also plan­ning an upcoming dance to ben­efit the foundation. 
With this encouragement, the Parseghians havn found it a littln easinr to march on for "one morn vietory," and a little easinr to hope that onfl day their chil­dren or someono else's will grow up and beeome just what they want to bn. 
"I want a curn to happen tomorrow," coach l'arseghian said. "We can't give up hop!!. If it can'l be s urcessful for !llY grandchildron, then for future children." 
For further information or to make a donation. contact the Ara J>arseghian Medical Research Foundation at 1760 E. River Rd., Suite 115, Tucson, Ariz., 8571R. 
Mo....-~ey Manor Pre~enl~ 




Outdoor 
Morri~~ey 

Unplu99ed 
Friday, OdoLer 2nd 
@3pD1. 

Mo~issey Steps 
-

--~ -~---------~-~----------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 2, 1998 

DeiDolish 
continued from page 1 
these gifts, which will provide significant new resources for our efforts to support the intellectual and spiritual growth of our students." 
The move to the new facility will benefit several depart­ments, allowing more space for the First Year of Studies and the Campus Ministries. Placing the Learning Resource Center and the First Year of Studies offices under the same roof will allow the two pro­grams to work more closely together and provide students with more services. according to Kevin Rooney, assistant dean of the First Year of Studies. 
The Coleman Family Center for Campus Ministry memori­alizes the parents of and brother of alumnus and Trustee Thomas Coleman, whose gift will underwrite it. 
Coleman. a 1956 Notre Dame graduate, has been a member of the advisory coun­cil for Notre Dame's College of Business Administration since 1968. He was elected to the University's Board of Trustees in 1984. 
The James and Leah Rae Morse Center for Academic Services is named in recogni­tion of the 1957 Notre Dame alumnus and his wife, whose gift will underwrite the center. 
Jim Morse has been a mem­ber of the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters since 1981 and also serves on the Athletic Alumni Development commit­tee. Captain of the 1956 Notre Dame football team, Morse was also the ABC radio voice of Notre Dame football in the 1960s. 
The new will be roughly 65,000 square-feet, will also house a new campus computer cluster, student social space, and a satellite office for the University's Center for Social Concerns. Construction on the new facility is scheduled to begin in the spring of 1999 and to be completed in the fall of 2000. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Armageddon  PG-13  
2:45, 7:20, 10:25  
Blade  R  

2:40, 3:45, 5:20, 7:35, 8:00, 
10:20, 10:35 
Dead Man on Campus R 
3:10,5:40, 7:55, 10:10 
Fifty-Four R 
1:55, 4:00, 7:00, 9:50 
Halloween H20 R 
2:20, 4:20, 7:00, 9:30 
Ronln R 
2:00, 3:30, 4:40, 7:05, 
7:30, 9:45, 10:10 Saving Private Ryan R 
2:10,3:00, 5:35,7:45, 9:15 
Snake Eyes R 
2:15,4:30, 7:10,9:40 
The Mask of Zorro PG·13 
1:55, 4:45, 7:35, 10:35 
What Dreams May PG·13 
2:05, 2:50, 4:35, 5:25, 7:15, 7:55, 9:55, 10:30 lllllt.t! '1~!5 !l'dY FOUR O~l 'DVANtl TICKET 1.\Ul ~AHDIW .C(!)lf!U t NO f4l!fl • tiO SV'!ISI.\'111 



Eldred 

continued from page 1 
degree completion and week­end college programs aimed at women older than the tradi­tional college age. 
At the meeting, she discov­ered that Saint Mary's was one of the few institutions to retain its original founding mission statement, Eldred said. 
"We want to keep our focus on traditional students," Eldred said. "By doing this, we won't dilute what we have to offer them." 
Additionally, the meeting of the coalition. explored the marketing attempts to attract young women to women's col­leges and to better understand the value of attending a women's college, as well as the current marketing cam­paign of the Coalition. 
"We talked about the fact that in a women's college, there is more obviously a col­laborative spirit and less emphasis on competition," Eldred said. "By our very iden­the benefits of attending tities as women's colleges, we women's colleges, myths of have a distinct niche in the attending the colleges and market of higher education." professional achievements of 
The Women's College alumnae, Eldred said she was Coalition announced the sec­pleased to see Saint Mary's ond phase of a 15-year, $375 offering the brochure and million public service advertis­being mentioned in it fre­ing campaign at the meeting. quently. 
The campaign, called Saint Mary's was "Expect the Best 
mentioned in the from a Girl That's brochure as the What You'll Get" number one will focus on liberal arts gender equity college in in education t h e and features Midwest, outstanding citing the women's col­1998 U.S. lege graduates News and such as Anne World Report Sweeney, presi-college rank­dent of the ings. A list of ABC/Disney Cable women's college Network, and world­graduates serving in record holding marathon the 105th Congress includ­runner Sarah Fulcher. ed three Saint Mary's gradu­
The collaborative spirit of ates was also included. women's colleges has also car­Eldred pointed out a compi­ried over into literature given lation of the cumulative rank­to prospective students by ings of women's colleges from admissions offices. various news magazines that 
Filled with passages about she received at the meeting. 
Although women's colleges made up only 4.7 percent of the 1,323 eligible institutions, they ranked in the top of many categories. Statistics that stood out to her included those involving class size, academic rates and graduation rates, Eldred said. 
In U.S. News and World Report's rankings, 25 percent of the top 25 colleges were women's colleges. That num­ber is in addition to the women's eolleges that finished in the top of regional rankings. 
Saint Mary's was cited as having the highest graduation rate among regional liberal arts colleges in the Midwest. Also, 33 percent of women's colleges in the Midwest, including Saint Mary's, were recognized for having the highest proportion of classes under 20 students. 
"What this says is that the academic quality is very high at women's colleges, our retention rates of students are often higher and the quality of campus life is better," Eldred said. 

Surfing the Web? We're the Pipeline to Your Account. 
Hit the Net with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE Home Banking ~ervice. Internet Banking On-Line. As a Member, you can enjoy secure access to your accounts from the comfort and convenience of your Dorm Room or Apartment. 
• 
FREE Home Banking Access • Financial Wizard™ Calculators 

• Secure Access to Your

• 
FREE Stock Quotes 

Accounts 


• 
Compatible with Quicken or • First 3 months of Electronic Bill Microsoft Money Payment Service FREE 


Also, ask about our special CAT (Computer And Technology) loan. Full compatibility with the University 
of Notre Dame Network (Just plug in and go!) 
Douglas Road Office 19033 Douglas Rd 
P~ NOTRE DAME 

P.O. Box 7878 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 ~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
For People. Not For Profit. 

(800) 522-6611 
e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 
Granger Express Office 12980 State Road 23 SuiteF Granger, IN 46530 (219) 239-9351 

Edison Road Office Ireland Road Office Saint Joseph's Medical Center Mill Street Office Saint Mary's Campus I II West Edison Rd 2102 East Ireland Rd 80 I East LaSalle St 125 Mill St The Center Building Mishawaka, IN 46545 South Bend, IN 46614 South Bend, IN 46617 Mishawaka, IN 46544 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 254-4400 (219) 299-2220 (219) 237-7288 (219) 256-2361 (219) 284-4614 
Portage Road Office 3457 Portage Road South Bend, IN 46628 (219) 277-8959 

Independent of the University 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
r-~-------.------------------------~--------------~----~-~----~------~---------~~-----~-~ 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• EOUADOR Friday, Ocrober 2, 1998 

• WORLD N::ws BRIEFS 
Judge orders teen to remain celibate or go to jail 
CAMBHIDGE. Ill. 

!\ judgn told a te1n1-ager who pleaded guilty to stnaling handguns that he must rmnain rdibate for 2 1/2 years -unless he gnLo.; rnarriml. Brandon Stnvens, 17, was snn­tPnc:NI Wedrwsday to 30 months probation, I XO days jail and it $2,000 finn. I lenry County .ludgn Clarkn Barnns said St1wnns won't have to serve jail timn if hn complntes treatment at a halfway house and mnnts c:onditions that inrludP tlw c:dibac:y rule. "Certainly he's got no husirwss having sexual rPiations with pen­piP to whom lw's not marrind," Barnes said. l'rosPrutor TPd llamnr s<lld tlw rnquinmwnt was hasPd on tlw judge's learning in court that StPvf'ns was sexually artivn, and not lll'ntusP of any snxually n•latPd dmrgns. 
Ambulance kills children 
NI·:W YOHK 

An ambularH'P drivPr was ehargnd with manslaughtPr Thursday aftPr allegedly speed­ing through a r('(l light on a non-emm-g~mc:y rail and plowing into a mr. killing two littln boys and tlwir sistPr. The crash took plac1~ shortly bl'l'orP midnight Wndrwsday in Brooklyn. The ambulanrP driver, /\nne l.amlll'rson. :{4, was arwst('(l because th1~ pri­vatl'ly run ambularH:e "ran a light, was going at an I'Xn~ssivf~ spend and wasn't responding to a nwdiral Pmer-g~~ncy," Detective Thomas Md;rath said. l'oliee said that the ambulance was going 50 to 70 mph in a 30 mph zone and that iLo.; !lashing lights and sirnn wen~ on when it ran the light. A Transeare Ambulance Sm·viee oflkial, Hon O'Grady. refused to com­ment on the eharges. Tlw dead wern two boys and a girl. ages 2, 5 and 7. 
California passes paparazzi law to protect celebrities 
LOS ANGELES 

California has passed a law that tries to put a lPns rap on paparazzi and their raw, high­pricf'd and widnly circulated photos of celebri­ties in privati' monwnts. Under thn law, it would be grounds for civil aetion to take the now infamous pieturns of Brad Pitt in the bull' on a privati~ b1mch or to shoot Madonna's I1JX!'i wmlding to S1~an Penn from onn of the army of lwlicoptnrs that swirled above her Malibu mansion. (;ov. Pnte Wilson signed the bill into law Wedrwsday, saying it would give cniPhrities. crime victims and others grounds for lawsuits when thny fnd their privacy has lwmr violated by plwtographnrs or reporters. It hPromes law on Jan. 1. "Under this bill, the so-called 'stalknrazzi' will be deterred from driving tlwir human pmy to distraction -or !Wnll dPath," Wilson said. 
Dow 
AMEX: 608.50
}ONES 
-12.'i0 Nasdaq:
7632.53 
1612.3.1 
-81.51 
D 
NYSE: 490.22 -14.2'i S&P 500: 
986 . .}9 

Composi1e
·50.62 
Volume:-210.09 886,722.215 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 

i U~:U'4~l: Uftr;IH ·~~ ,-u~~'it J 'i41~ CBirt; 
IJIU COMI' PI" II -td7 ·<.1H75 61.5625 1 I!'.< ll SY'il l'\.1\ csn.J ·7..1K ·<.5625 57.25 I'UWU.\01 I 1:\( 1'>rr -tUK -.1250 .\2.5 t"IHI,R(ll/1'-AIHt cwrsv -2K.7U -.\.8750 tJ.h2S IORI\Y\In.t' I~< l<lRf. .. U.K< -5.6250 11.011 Ml< ltO\OFI I lliU' M"iFJ -5.45 -6.0tKlO \O-l.Ofl25 ''AIIUO IN<' VtlOO ·12.7K ·16.5625 112.9.i75 INTf.L!.llHI' 1NTC -2.70 -2.1.1125 H.\.4.175 lt/Cf.N"r fUll IS( l.ll -~.51 ·.1.1250 b6.12S llt.ALIII\OLJI"II CORP IIRC ·6.55 ·.6H75 <J.KI2S 

/\ssoeiated Press 
QUITO 

Police battled hundreds of protnsting workers and stu­dents in cities across Ecuador on Thursday dur­ing a one-day strike against austerity measures. Three people were reported killed. 
Strikers have vowed to force president Jamil Mahuad to reseind austerity measures he announced on Sept. 14 that devalued the currency and ended subsi­dies on cooking gas, elec­tricity and diesnl oil. 
In Guayaquil, 165 miles southwest of the capital Quito. strikers burned tires and barricaded streets. Looters ransacked stores in two street markets and a mob destroyed luxury cars with dubs, witnesses said. 
• RUSSIA 
A small bomb exploded in front of the U.S. consulate in Guayaquil, damaging the pavement, police said. 
A police officer died as he carried a bomb found on the sidewalk back to a mili­tary base in the city of Portoviejo, 150 miles south­west of Quito, police said. 
Two men in Guayaquil and Esmeraldas were killed by stray bullets fired during violent demonstrations, police reported. It was not known who fired the shots. 
Buses and taxis were searce in major cities as many drivers respected the strike eall by Ecuador's largest labor federation, the leftist-led United Workers Front. 
On Wednesday, an office of Mahuad 's Popular Democracy party in Guayaquil was bombed, blowing a hole in its main door. The day before, a bomb exploded in the head­quarters of Ecuador's Bishops Conference, injur­ing a Spanish nun. 

No one has claimed responsibility for the bombs, but government officials have linked them to radical proponents of the strike. Union leaders have denied the eharge. 
The strike is the first major challenge to the cen­trist Mahuad, who took office on Aug. 10, promis­ing to rescue the impover­ished South American nation from bankruptcy. 
Since Mahuad endnd thn subsidies, fuel prices have increased by up to 400 per­cent, causing the cost of many basic food products and public transportation to soar. 
J 
Mahuad has said the tough measures were nec­essary to end 40 percent inflation and trim a bal­looning budget deficit that had the impoverished Andean nation on the verge of financial collapse. 
"The government is oblig­ed to maintain order. Those who cause disturbances will be arrested," Mahuad told reporters Thursday before !lying to New York to attend the United Nations General Assembly. 
Ecuador's powerful unions have helped topple governments in the past. Former President /\bdala Bucaram was removed from power in 1997 by Congress after ldtist-led unions lnd a wavn of strikes and protests against a simi­lar economic austerity packagn. 

Hungry students protest government 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
MOSCOW 

University students who huven't received their federal living allowance in months turned out Thursday at protests across Russia to demand the government pay them and their teachers on time. 
In Moscow alone. more than 2,000 students gathered on a cold day out­side Russia's main government building, and blocked a road for an hour with police permission. 
Breaking bottles. chanting slogans, and waving signs that read "Students: Be realistic, Demand the impossible," the mostly young crowd called for better living conditions in dormitories, free higher education, and the payment of student stipends and teacher salaries. 
Every university student is sup­
posed to receive a federally paid liv­ing allowance. The stipends vary, but average around 150 rubles (10 dollars) each month. Many claim they haven't received their stipends for more than four months. 
"We want a government that does­n't just put all the money in its own pocket,'' said 18-year-old Maxim Nesnov. "We must have honesty. That's the most important thing. That the government doesn't just work for itself. but for Russia." 
An estimated 17,000 students joined similar rallies in 13 other Russian cities, all part of a day-long protest organized by the Russian Association of Students' Trade Unions, the ITAR-Tass news agency reported. 
The government has also fallen far behind in its debts to budget work­ers, pensioners, and the military. 

Many from these groups are expect­ed to como out in full force Oct. 7 for nationwide protests. 
Some students also decried the eondition of Moscow's dormitories. many of which don't have oven the most basic amenities, they said. 
"There is no heating or hot watM 
. in our dorm," said 17-year-old Elena Bolunova, who studies at the Russian Chemistry-Technology Institute. "It's simply awful. We just want something, some sort of improve­ment. But so far there's no improve­ment at-all." That may soon change. Under a drive to clear up the government's old debts, Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov said Thursday the govern­ment had paid off summer stipends and had earmarked money for autumn stipends as well. 
---~-------~-----~ 

---~-----------~ 
-----. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 2, 1998 
' IDON'T SEE WHY THEY CAN'T JUST TAKE YOUR CREDIT CARD NUMBER AND CHARGE YOU WHEN YOU WIN.' 

JOE DROZD '57 
'ICONSIDER THE INTEREST JUST 
ANOTHER DONATION TO THE UNIVERSITY ••• IF THEY CAN KEEP THE INTEREST, AND IT'S A SMALL AMOUNT, THAT'S FINE WITH ME.' 
TOM BENNETT '67 

'I'VE BEEN VERY FORTUNATE IN THE 


··· Sorin Society members' better at winning tickets ••• 
'IDON'T THINK [A SEPARATE LOTTERY] 
IS APPROPRIATE. I GOT A LETTER ASKING ME TO JOIN THE SORIN SOCIETY ••• THEY DIDN'T MENTION THE PREFERENTIAL FOOTBALL TICKETS. THEY TELL YOU THAT IF YOU GIVE ENOUGH, 

THE LOTTERY'S RANDOM.' 

RICK LABELLE '79 
'IT'S THE AMERICAN WAY -YOU 
GIVE MORE YOU GET A BE'NER CHANCE. IT'S NOT SURPRISING, BUT YOU'D LIKE KNOWLEDGE OF IT.' 
MARYANN LABELLE '79 


·better( lottery odds for ......,.,.,,.,...,.:f:Jttinners ••• 

LOTTERY. I'VE NEVER NOT GOTTEN TICKETS FOR ANY GAMES. IF I FELT Dis­ADVANTAGED, I MIGHT FEEL DIFFERENTLY ABOUT THE MONOGRAM CLUB.' 
KEN TELESCA '63 
'IHONESTLY DIDN'T KNOW [ABOUT THE MONOGRAM WINNERS]. I THINK EVERYONE SHOULD HAVE AN EQUAL CHANCE AT WINNING.' 
DANA SCHERLE '95 



Tickets 
continued from page 1 
designed to create revenue," he said. "It's designed to receive the money and get the tickets out as efliciently as possible." 
Jim Fraleigh, director of Ticketing and Marketing, said the pre-payment is necessary. 
"The reason the money has to be in up front is because [the alumni] don't know how many games they're going to win. Time doesn't permit us to collect all that money after the fact," he said. noting that waiting to col­lect the money would result in not being able to get the tickets out on time. 
"It's a tight schedule," Fraleigh said. "You have to hit the dead­lines to keep things on target." 
Cunningham also pointed out that the process takes six weeks, and collecting payment after the lottery could result in unsold tickets if alumni change their minds about what tickets to buy. 
Numni expressed mixed reac­tions to the system. 
"I don't see why they can't just take your credit card and only charge you if you win," said Joe Drozd; class of 1957. · 
Others said the process doesn't bother them. 
"I consider the interest just another donation to the University," said Tom Bennett, a 196 7 graduate-school alumnus. "I think the amount that alumni have to give to get in the lottery is very small, so if they can keep the interest and it's a small amount, that's fine with me." 
Two special groups of appli­cants are entered into a separate ticket pool in which the odds of winning are much better due to the smaller number of partici­pants, Cunningham said. 
These groups are monogram winners -alumni who lettered in a ·varsity sport during their years at Notre Dame -and members of the Sorin Society, who give at least $1,000 per year to the University. Tickets 


...,!i~let distribution 
= .. 

practices vary 
Other univefsities use a vari­
ety of methods to determine who will be able to purchase their football tickets, but com· 
•mon themes from institution to institution include prioritizing given to benefactors' needs and attempting to sell an tickets. 
Asampling of other methods are detailed below: 
University of Michigan 
"People that already have our 
[season] tickets can renew 
them each year," said David 
Sirna, University of Michigan 
ticket sales representative.­
Applicants for new season tickets can receive priority application through the Alumni Association, and the waiting list is eight to 10 ·years, according to Sirna. 
·Each applicant is given a 
ranking between .one and 11 
based on priority; top cate­
gori?s include, current season 
ticl<et holders (1), large-scale 
donors (2); and faculty and staff 
preyiously refused (3). Alumni 
applying for.:....the first time 
:.::;~;,:/'' 
receive a priority of 8, Sirna explained. 
Applicants must reapply and send in their money every year. Michigan returns the original checks of non-winners to them. 
Seats, remaining after season tickets are sold are then offered to the general public. 
Florida State University 
FSU sells as many season tickets as possible to avoid hav­ing unsold tickets, according to Patrick Martin, ticket manager. 
"The right to buy and the number you're able to buy is based on your giving level," said Martin. 
Florida State uses a point sys­tem to determine where in the stadium each purchaser's seats will be located. Giving level, number of years as a donor, and whether or not a buyer is a graduate of FSU are some of the factors that allow appli­cants to earn points. 
"Notre Dame's in a unique situation. They can sell out every game without selling sea· son tickets," he commented. "I couldn't guarantee we could sell out all our home games without season tickets." 

are alloeated to the groups by a University committee, he explained. 
No effort is made to make the odds of winning equal in all three lotteries, Cunningham admitted. Fraleigh acknowl­edged that sometimes members of these two groups do not have to participate in the lottery process. 
"There is a different pool of tickets for benefactors. A lottery is held if demand is greater than supply," he said, explaining that the drawing is often unneces­sary. When this occurs, any excess tickets arc returned to 
Welcome Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, 
Holy Cross, Faculty, Staff and Students Papa invites you to get a 

·, l 

$5 Certificate for FREE* 
*Join us for Lunch or Dinner between now and October 16, Show your Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross ID and Get a $5 Certificate. 
Rcdccm.ibk .u nn1r i\l'\1 n'it. l lilc· •ntlli•.uc per I. D. Ccrtitic.nc', ma1 il<>t be· combined with ,\1\1 other di,c:oul\t or otkr 
Located at: S I l 0 Edison Lakes Parkwav (comer of Main St. & Edison Lakes Parkway) Jvlisha\\'aka, IN 
(219) 271-1692 

RESERVATIONS ACCPTED OPEN: Sunda\'-Thursd~l\·: II .un -I 0 pm Fridar-S~nurda\·• I I .un -ll pm 

It's Fun, It)s Fresh, It's Friendly... It's the Italian You )ll Fall I11 Love with. 

the regular alumni pool. 
Alumni were divided on whether or not this was an acceptable practice. 
"I wasn't aware that that [a different pool for benefactors] was available," said Hick LaBelle, class of 1979. "I don't think it's appropriate. I got a let­ter asking me to join the Sorin Society. They didn't mention the preferential football tickets. They tell you that if you give enough the lottery's random." 
"It's the American way. You give more, you get a better chance," countered LaBelle's wife Maryann. 
_..w.--.._...w_.·-~ 

Friday, Ocroher 2, I 99R 
---~ ---------=-T=he=-0=--h=-s=er--'-'ve:.:.r_•-=C=-A=M.:.=.::..P-=U::...::S::_:_N:.=E=-W~S==============~=================p=ag~e=.7
• -·,vs ANALYSIS 
U.S. loan debt rises,
Profs: Benefit crisis avoidable 
By TOM ENRIGHT tlwy wrotn. "The best thing that Nt·w,Writer Congress and the prnsidr1nt could do l'or Social Sneurity (;ood I'I'OilOIIlil' poJir'ir~s. not would br1 to roll back tlw policies spPtHling cuts. hold tlw answPr that have hindernd workers 
to solving tlw impnnding Soria! Serurity rrisis, arrording to two NotrP I>anw Pr·onom ists. 
'J'Prl'sa c; hi lard ll!'Ci and Martin Wolfson, assor·iatl' profpssors of l't·onomirs, puhlislwd a joint t•ditorial in tlw Aug. 2 X I'd i t i0 II 0 f t lw National Catholic I!Ppm'll'r. ll strPssPd tlw lli'!'Pssily ol' govPrlllll!'llt intPrar·tion for llw Pro­nomif' growth tWPdPd to support Social SPrurity. 
c;hilardurri and Wol[-;on admit til!' difli­rulty of pn1dirting long­tPI'lll I'!'Onomir I'VI'nts. hut rio lwlitwl' that tlw rnorl' positivn outlook ran pt·ovP possibll' with govPrnnwnt assistatH'I'. 
"Sul'!-ly wr• arP r~apahiP of using c-r·onomir policy to arhievn growth ratPs of nwrn than 1.3 pPrr'Pnt ovl'r thl' long tPrm." 
A SPECIAL INVITATION 


'THE BEST THING THAT 
did just seven years ago,
as a wage that allows a 
according to .-------,

CONGRESS AND THE l'ull-timn worker to 
a nationwide
remain out of poverty. 

PRESIDENT COULD DO FOR 
survey con­
Wolfson also noted 
ducted by

SOCIAL SECURITY WOULD 
that about a dozen cities 
the national

BE TO ROLL BACK THE POLl-have implemented living 
student loan
wagn ordinances that 

CIES THAT HAVE HINDERED 
provider

Wolfson require companies in 
Nellie Mae. 

WORKERS FROM BARGAIN­the community to pay 

ING FOR HIGHER WAGES IN THE PAST.' 
Assou11 Tl:' J>noFI:'ssons TH//E\'!1 
Glli/AII/Jif(.'(.'J liND MAH11N WoLf:WJN, J!J)JT0/1/AI. Uhll/TI/0/IS 
from bargaining for wages in thn past." 
higher 


Announces the Following Introductory Offers of ... 
r---,r---,r---,r---,r---,
$25 $l5

I 10%of'f I I $9 I I I I I I $25 I 1 AveJa 1 1 Manicure 1 1 Muni~ure or 1 1 Fills . I 1 Full Set 1 1 Retail 1 1 Regular 1 1 Pedtcure I 1 Regula• I 1 Regulllf I 
L ___ .J L-~-.J LR!!u!!:."!!7.J L-~-.J L-~-.J 
•Please call to schedule your appo/ntm.,....,..e_n..,.t•..,....,................~..,...,.-.-..--.., 
S1yli.": Tlli.• n({tr NOT valid w11h Ciml\'. 'Ad mutit J:ll/ ~res~nicd tn receptiQnt~t, Please use the Special Savings invitauon uud get to know ::;~~~['$iCti.~ I!"'~OI'Jll~~l!.:} 
us. You'll be plea""d wuh th< 4uality and service we 'r?Sf<~J'Ialn.re~trictions apply)·:-<'\-~'· prnvt<le. and we will do our best to merit your conftdence anJ palronagc. Wt lmpr In .'itt you .won. 
No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires 10/10/98. 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N.lronwood Drive •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel. 219-289-5080 
,,,,,,,J/1' 
A Benefit for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND ~ 
PANCAKE BREAKFAST , SATURDAY, OCT9.~ER 10 . 11:00-STEPAN-CENTER 
--·w .~... . . 

T-SHIRTS TO~ALL FINISHERS . -' ~ ·'-~ 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS L 
(,.' • 

$6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 


Both said in intnrviews that while the national government is 


ND stays steady
not taking rmough steps to pre­
serve Social Security, support for 
By MICHAEL FlANNERY 

thn program remains strong among Americans. Ghilarducci 
News Wrircr 

and Wolfson advocated the nnnd for meaningful inemas­
-College graduates are l'ind­ns in living wages, 
ing it more difficult to pay off which Wolfson dnfincs 
their student loans than they 


The sur­vey revealndliving wages to worknrs. 
lie said that a similar 
Pilawski
that inereas·living wage proposal is ingly, col-now before the South Bend City Council. 
lege graduates report that But if the economy 
their loan debt is a major bur­cannot grow enough to 
den and that their starting 
salaries after graduation are
support Social Security, 
not adequate.
euts or incrnased taxes 
But some say Notre Dame

Ghilarducci eould result, according 
students are exceptions to these findings. 
to Ghilardueei. 

She citnd the United Parcel Snrvice and General 
Eugene Pilawski, assistant Motors Corp. strikes, which 
director of financial services, oer~urred in the past 18 months, 
asserts that this is not the case as proof that the public supports 
at Notre Dame. While average unions and inereascd wages for 
student debt across the coun­worknrs. Ameriea nePds leader­
try increased from $8,200 in ship that will refocus these 
1991 to $18,800 in 1997, he dnhates, she said. 
says the ability of Notre Dame To stop thn fall of real wages 
graduates to pay off their in America, the duo's editorial 
loans has not been at1'ected. advocated outlawing pl~rmanent 
"We really haven't seen any replaeemnnt. work()rs and plac­
significant changes here at ing barriers for corporations 
Notre Dame," he said. "Our that movr) jobs overseas. 
default rate is very low." They also emphasized the 
In fact, the University's stat() of thn economy as erudal 
default rate -the percentage in how well Social Security fares 
of student loans that are not in the long term. 
paid-is 2.2 percent. Pilawski believes the statistic is a 
reflection of the quality of jobs 
that Notre Dame graduates 
land after graduation. 
Furthermore, many students 
do not claim to be nervous 
about paying off their debt. 
"I won't try to pay [my debt! 
off immediately," sophomore 
Jetl" Kaczynski said. ''I'd hopo 
to pay it off in five years." 
Freshman Sean McCarthy 
was similarly nonehaltmt, hut 
added that liis financial situa­
tion after eollege will hingP on 
how much mnn1.~y ho can earn 
in the work force·. 
"It depends on the kind of job I get arter graduating from this fine establishment," hn said. 
Still, some disagree. 
Freshman architncturo stu­dent Paul Hanogajec explained that simply pursuing his (:ho­son career could be an obsta­cle. Most states require a three-year unpaid int~m1ship before issuing an architect's license, which Hanogajoc said may hurt his ability to pay off his student loans. 
"It will come time to pay before the three years arc up," he said. 

Individuals feeling apprn­hensivc like llanogajee should consult the Office of Financial Aid, which attAmpts to assist graduates as they begin the payment process. A represen­tative meets with every gradu­ating srmior who has stuctont loans to pay otT and helps the student plan for what to nxpect after graduation, Pilawski explained. 
"A GREAT AMERICAN FILMI 
Hal Hartley's previous work Is absolutely no 
.·. preparation lor the brilliance and deep resonance of his . . .. ·· :·. 'HENRY FOOL'... This 111m aspires to be ameditation on · ··· ~ (among other things) art, trust, loyalty, politics and popular 
· ,/ culture. With utter simplicity, and with unexpectedly intense ""' storytelling, it achieves all that and more:· -JANET MASLIN, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
HENRY FOOL 
anew film by Hal Hartley 
CLASSics·­

Cinema at the Snite 
Fri. & Sat. 7:15 and 9:45pm Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/-cothweb 

THE BElGER MANSION INN 
MICHJANA 'S BEST KEPT DINING SECRET! 
Voted best entree "Taste ofMichiana", 1998. Big city dining with small town atmosphere. Only 15 minutes from Notre Dame. Reservations accepted 
We also offer elegant overnight accommodations. 
317 LINCOLNWAY EAST* MISHAWAKA* INDIANA 255-3939 
~-------w ~ ~-~--~--·-.._.... ............-------~--~-~-------~----­

Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 360o Stadium Theater • Training Center • Pigskin Pageantry • Hall of Champions 
• Strategy Clinic • Bowl Games & National Championships • Great Moments 
PREVIEW THE NOTRE DAME/STANFORD GAME AT THE HALL OF FAME! 
Sponsored by the Knights ofColumbus, Council 553 
. Frida_y, October 2, 8:30P.M. at the College ~~ootball Hall of Fame Press Box 
Football history, trivia, door prizes, and the latest information 
on Notre Dame ana Stanford. 
The world's most exciting and interactive sports Hall ofFame is just a FREE SHUITLE ride away! 
Shuttle Hours & Schedule: Shuttle will run from 12 noon -8:30 P.M. (Friday Only!) 
Bus will pick up and drop offat the Main Circle east ofAlumni Hall 
on Notre Dame Ave. 
NOTRE DAME 
to Hall of Fame 

12:00 NOON 
1:00 P.M. 2:00P.M. 3:00P.M. 4:00P.M. 5:00P.M. 
6:00P.M. 7:00P.M. 

HALL OF FAME 
To Notre Dame 
12:30 P.M. 
1:30 P.M. 2:30P.M. 3:30P.M. 4:30P.M. 5:30P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:30P.M. 
I .800.440.FAME 
(1.800.440.3263) • http://collegefootball.org/ 
219.235. 9999 

Friday, October 2, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
SMC Democratic group begins 

Gernes explores poetry and soul 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE for me it is the language of icance in anything is a poem News Writer the senses," Cernes said. in itself, according to Cernes. The soul can not be given "You must transform the 
The relationship between one word to explain its many interior landscape and rnlatn tho por~try and the soul was facets; it is seen, felt, heard, il to the world," she said. the focus of Sonia Cernes' Iee­smelled and tasted. Even Gernns hnrsolf can not turp yesterday at Saint To help get to know the fully testify to why shP experi­Mary's. world, Gernes suggests taking ences certain feelings in her 
Cernes, an English profes­an object, l'inding something poetry. She told a story in one sor, is interested in exploring new about it and realizing of her poems, "Longing for thP thP landscape of the human that you are not the only thing Light." This poem told of soul. She explained that here. Perceive the object in a teaching in a barren desnrt in everyone wants a definition way that no one else ever has Australia. Gernes didn't for the soul to capture it in an before. understand why the dosert abstraet way. "Make the decision to keep thrillnd hm· and why the sun 
"Poetry may be the language your eyes open," Cernes said. beckoned her to wakn each of the soul or r-motions, but The act of finding the signif-morning. 
Admissions Office now open 8:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. on Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. 
e new world opened up one Saturday morning." 
"That's when we visited the campus of Holy Cross College -and my daughter decided she had to go there." 
Good decision! No doubt it was aided by the fact that they could talk with someone 
from our Admissions Office. It's now open on all Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. HOLY 
So college-bound students and their families who are in town for a game can get the 
CROSS 
full scoop on what our college has to offer. Of course, you can talk with someone in 
COLLEGE
the Admissions Office any weekday. And, if you can't visit us when you're in town for 
* 

By GRETCHEN TRYBUS 
New< Writer 
Saint Mary's studnnts arn ~Pnnrally eonsnrvativn and Hnpubliean but this dons not necessarily mean thnrn is no room for Colln~n Democrats, said Patrick Pierce, associate prof1~ssor of political science. 
Althou~h tlwre has eonsis­tl)ntly been a Colle~e Hnpublican club at Saint Mary's, kl~npin~ an active College Democrat club has h1~nn challenging. The dub has vanislwd and restarted many limns, and is in opnration this 
Sl' til I'Slnr. 
"WP tPrHI to havP a nmsm·va­livn community," said club lrPasurPr Lara lkrknr. "Pnople IPnd to sligmatizn and stay awav from l>nnHHTatir vinws." 
Pi;)rcn, who has worknd at Saint Mary's for tlw past 17 yPars, has been the advisor of the dub for each of its short nxistences. Since the last time the elub got ofT the ground, thorn has been a small follow­ing and some activity. 
But a change has occurred this year. Saint Mary's stu­dents have shown more of an interest in having a Democratic representation on campus, he said. 
This interest has bnen led by freshman Karoline Pershell. 
"People should be involved in this sort of thing since it affects everyone," said l'r.rshell. 
Bnhind Porshell arn Becker, Emily Parker and Sarah Chaudoir, who arn the officers of the Colleg1~ Dnmoerats. 
"W1) want to havo an open mind," said Beeker. 
The goal of the club is to havn speakers and activities that are gearod toward the whole campus and not only to those with Democratic views, according to Beeker. With this in mind, the club hopes to have more long-term success. 

'"fhings arc just getting going," said Pierce. 
Thus far, the club has met with people from the cam­paigns of Butch Morgan and 
U.S. congressman Tim Roemer. 
Currently, the club's main focus is on the upcoming elec­tions. 
Members plan to participate in literature drops and other activities to aid the campaigns. In return for the club's ser­vices, the candidates will donate gift certificates, which will be rr-deemable at several restaurants in the area. 
Thesr, certificates will be raf­fled off by the club in an attempt to raisr, interest and appeal to a large population, according to Pershell and Br-cker. 
Coselli to deliver Hofman lecture 

University of. Notre Dame 
alumnus Dr. Joseph Coselli wlll deliver the sixth annual ErniLT~ Hofman lecture, ·~.Hearts and Parts: Modern Advances in Cardiovascular . Surgery/' tomorrow at 10 · a.ni. in the Cushing Hall 
Auditorium. The lecture is 
free and open to the public. 
Honored by Good 
Housekeeping magazine as 
one of"The Country's Best 
Heart Doctors" and listed in 
American Health as one of 
"The Best Doctors in 
America," Coselli graduated 
from Notre Dame with a 
degree in preprofessional 
studies in 197 4 and earned 
his medical degree from the 
University of Texas"Ga.lveston 

Medical School in 1977. 
He is now a professor of surgery at Baylor College of Medicine In Houston and is associated with several hospi­tals in the Houston area. He also is a recipient of the Antoine Marfan award for outstanding achievement in the field of Marfan Syndrome and cardiovascular and nortic valve surgery. 
Coselli is a member of sev­eral professional societies. including the American Medical Association. the American Heart Association, the American Association for 
Thoractic  Surgery,  the  
American  College  of  
Surgeons.  the  Amnrican  

College of Chest Physicians and the American College of Cardiology. 
P.O. Box 308

a game, you can learn more about us at the Holy Cross Hospitality Table in Joyce 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 Center. We're a two-year, transfer-intent liberal arts college with a knack for nurturing 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
young minds and giving wings to young dreams. Stop by. And let us open up a whole 
Website: http:/ /www.hcc-nd.edu new world for your son or daughter. E-Mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
Right for you, right from the start. 



Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r-----------, r-----------,
1 One Month 1 1 10 Tanning 1 
I I I I 
: Unlimited : : Bed : 
I I Qf I s , I 
: Tanning : : esswns : 
: only $40.00: : only $35.00 : 
L-----------~ L-----------~ 
Tan the rest of '98 for $98 

272-7653 256-9656 
University CommoiiS by UP Mall 
Mondays: Football • Sport Night 
• 
Playoffs • Dollar Night • Big Screen TV 

• 
Free Hot Dogs and Cigars • Post Game Party with the jerry Springer Show 


Tuesdays: Penny Tuesdays 
Wednesdays: 
Fifty-cent Wednesdays and open mic sing along • Karaoke • Comedy • Bring your favorite CDs on tapes 
• Showcase your tal­ent to your friends 
Watch the Play Offs and World Series • Big screen TV and prices to fit your budget 

Grape & McKinley near KMart 

Thursdays: Dance Party and Dollar Night 
Fridays: Swing Dance • Pre­Game Party • The best in Big Band, ]azz, and Blues, Funk and R&B • College ID Discounts 
Saturdays: It's Your Thing Night • Post-Game Party • The best of the best in
-.. . 
~ 
• . •. I
• 

Please recycle The Observer. 

VVIN AN OFFICIAL 

F CJ CJ TBA ,_ L 

A winner will be selected every Monday following a horne game!!! 
Entry forrns available at 
1-farnrnes NO Bookscore & The Varsity Shop 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 2, 1998 --os~ERVER ------------------------------page II 

THE OBSERVER 

Nil lin DAML OH-ICF: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAIN 1 MARY\ OH·Il:F: .)09 Hal\gar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
ElliTOR-IN-CHtEF He.uher Cocks MANA<;IN<O Em rnR 8USINf$S MANAGER 1\n;~n Rc:inth;ll<:-r Kyle Carlin 

A."ISTANT MANA<OING EDITOR Hear her M.KKcn1.iC' 
Nt:ws EIHTOil .... . . .......... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPartlin VIEWrniNI EnrroR. .. .. hhwJo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brm Huclat SrnRTS Etll roR .......... K.uhlccn l.opc'1. SYSTEMS MANAGER.. . .. ......... Michaclllrouillcr SnN~. F.nii'ORL ...........S.~rah DyL•g CnNTROI.I.ER.. ... .. .... . .................. Dave Rogero 
J\ri11i 1\li!Sch WEB AllMINISTRATOil ..............Jennifer 1\reslow SAINT MARv•s ElHrnR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAriiiC~ ElliTOR ............................... Pere Cilclla P11oro EmrnK . . ................ Kevin {).dum 
IIH: ( lh,t•rwr 1~ dll' imlc.·lll'mlt·m ncw,p.tpcr puhh,Ju:d hy the ~tudcnt~ of the.· Univcr,hy nfNorrc Dame duLac and '-l.unt M.1ry\ ( :olll·~c.·. It dm·!> nut rH:n·.,~.tnly rdlc.•c.:t tlw pullr.:lc.·~ of the admi1mtr.ufon nfeither in!>tinnion. The nc."W!> is r~·pnrted ,,, .u.:c.m.udy ,11\tl nhJt'(tiVdy '" pu"ihlc:. lJn,igm·d cduona\~ rcprt.'.\Cnl dtc npmtwl of tht: nujnrity of the 1·\lnur-m-( :tud. MJn.t)!tttg hluur, t\"'"''I.UII M.m.1ging Editor ami dt.·p.mmcm ctlnnrs. Cnnuncmaric~.lcncrs and c.nlumn' prn4.'IH rlu: VIL"W\ ,.fc/u· .lllchnr~ ..tml nne ru.x·c.'\\olrlly duHc ofThc.· ( >h.\c:orvc.·r. Vi<:wpninr .\p.1n· i.~ ;waii.Jhk· wall nu·mht..'f\ uf tht· NnHl' I),mwi~.Uil( M.uy\ llllllllltlllily .md (Cl.all rc..·.ulcr~. The rrc..'C.' t.'XjHC~\11111 nf varying opinion\ 
dnn11~h klh..H i\ l'l\ltJIU,IV,l"lj 
Contacting The Observer hliror-in-( :hief 6.\ I-4S4l Busine" Office M.111.1~ing hluor/A'''''·ml ME (,j 1-4141 Advertising Ncw,/Photcl 6j l-c;_~2.' SyMem.~ Sport, 6.1 I-4S4.~ Fax Sw,e/S.unr M.~ry\ G.\l-4S40 Viewpoint E-Mail Il.tv Fdiwr/Vwwpnint 't>.\1-'ijO.~ Ad E-Mail ( ltfu.c M.m.tgcr/( ;cnc:r.tl lnfOrm.naon 6.\1-7471 News E-M.til 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
631-53U 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
ob~crver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
observer.obsnews.l !tPnd.edu 

ND Leaders Imprudent for Inviting Bradley 
Tlw appointnwnt of former Senator BradlPy as a visiting profi~ssor of public afl'airs is ohjl~ctionable on grounds that rdlPd primarily on our Notn) Dame lead­PI'S ra!lwr than on Sen. Bradley. 

Charles Rice 
In his I1JR4 address at Notre Dame, N1~w York (;ov. Mario Cuomo advocated a "Catholic nmlism" to justify his suppor·t for legalized abortion. In his exploration of a l'rnsidential candidacy, ';ov. Cuomo of'lPn ~~ourtml Catholie support with rnfer­l'nres to "my Notre Dame speech," etc. 
Is history repeating itself'! Sen. Bradley, the South Bend Tribune noted, "is often nwntiorwd as a possible eon!lmder liJr the l>emorratil: prnsidnntialnomination." This is not to imply that he would exploit his "Notn~ Dame profnssorship" to achieve that goal. However, it was impru­dent for Notre Dame to open il<>nlf to that possibility. This is not a criticism of Sen. Bradlny. lie~ is what he is: a pro-legalized abortion politician and prospective presi­dential candidate. Notrn Damn ought not to provide a potential launching pad for any politician, nspncially one whose record JWrsistnntly favors lngalization of tlw murder of the unborn. 
In his Snnatn carnm·, I 979-97, Sen. llradley had a virtually unbroken pro­legalized abortion rncord. lin nvnn V!Jled, on March I'J, ICJ%, against a prohibition of' governmental discrimination against medkal srhools that refuse to train stu­denL<> in performing abortions. This was not training in how to rmnedy damage done by botdwd abortions. Bather, the issun arose from complaints by the abor­tion industry that schools wern turning out too few abortionists to knnp up with demand. Sen. Bradley thus voted to open 
tlw door to compulsion of hospitals to train abortionisl<>. I le also voted against 
prohibiting partial-birth abortion (J'B;\) and votnd, on Sept. 26, I 996, to uphold President Clinton's veto of that prohibi­
tion. Stop and think about those PBA votes. The reality of what Sen. Bradley voted for put<> in revealing context the indifl'nrence of our University leaders to thn defining public issue of our time. 
In l'BA, as one was described by nurse Brnnda Shafer beli>rc the Senate .Judiciary Committee: "The mother was six months prngnant. The baby's heart­beat was clearly visible on the ultrasound screon. The doctor went in with forceps and grabbed the baby's legs and pulled them down into the birth canal. Then he delivered the baby's body and the arms -everything but the head (whieh was too large for the opening). The doctor kept the baby's head just inside the uterus. The baby's little finger's were clasping and unclasping, and his feet were kicking. Then the doctor stuck the scissors through the back of the head, and the baby's arms jerked out in a flinch, a startled reaction ... The doctor opened up the scissors, stuck a high-pow­creel suction tube into the opening and sucked the baby's brains out. Now the baby was completely limp." After the baby's brains were sucked out, the baby's head collapsed and "delivery" was com­pleted. 
The "evacuation" of the skull was doscribcd in more prncise terms at a National Abortion Federation seminar by Martin llaskell, M.D., who has performed over I ,000 PBAs: "The surgeon takes a pair of blunt curved Mctzenbaum scissors in the right hand. lie earcl'ully advances the tip, curved down, along the spine and under his middle linger until he feels it contact the base of tho skull under the tip of his middle linger ... The surgeon then fim:ns thn scissors into the base ... He spreads the scissors into the base of the skull under the tip of his middle linger ... The surgeon then forces the scissors into the base of the skull ... lie spreads the scissors to enlarge the opening. The sur­geon removes the scissors and introduces a suction catheter into this hole and evac­uates the skull contents." Dr. Haskell and Dr. James McMahon told American Medical News that "two-thirds" of the babies aborted this way "are alive until the end of this procedure." Nor is the baby anesthetized. 
Of course, the murder of a child in PBA by jamming scissors into his brain is qual­itatively no different from abortion by any other method. "The moral gravity of pro­cured abortion is apparent in all its truth," said .John Paul II, "if we recognize that we are dealing with murder." 
Sen. Bradley was not invited to lecture on a specialized subject such as tax or trade. !lather, he was invited as "one of our foremost national leaders," as an exemplar of what a legislator and public figure should be. In announcing Sen. Bradley's appointment, Notre Dame men­tioned his "role in the areas of tax reform, international trade, pension reform, com­munity building and improving race rela­tions." But the announcement said not one word about his relentless support of legalized abortion. The appointment tells the students that it is acceptable for a "foremost national leader" to support the legalized execution of the innocent. Not only is that support not a disqualification for leadership, it is, in the eyes of our University leaders, so irrelevant as not even to deserve mention in the detailed description of the Bradley record. The appointment implies that one can be a "community" builder although he sup­ports the legalization of the murder of the defenseless members of the community. 
In response to criticism of the appoint­ment, our leaders have sought to cover their action by professing their opposition to abortion, stressing the nm~d for open­ness, etc. The death toll from legalized abortion since 1973 is at least 37 million, not counting the larger and indeterminate number killed by pills and other abortifa­cienl'i. Yet our leaders evidently regard 

this slaughter as not a big enough dnal even to deserve mention-until com­plaints from alumni and others begin. 
;\lumnus .Joseph M. Scheidler ohjectml to the Bradley appointment on the ground that, "in a society steep1~d in a 'Culture of Death,' as Pope John Paul II has c.alled the 20th centmy, we cannot all'ord to overlook a public liguro 's position on the moral issues. You would not invite a racist or a fascist to lectme, and neither should you welcome one who stlpporL<> the violent killing of the unborn." President-emeritus Fr. Theodore M. 
.. Hcsburgh, C.S.C., incidentally, wrote in 1996 to Joe Scheidler: "having known you ... as a member of the Notre Dame family, on our Notre Damo faculty, and as a civil rights activist walking side-by-side with Martin Luther King, now I consider you our most successful champion of the unborn." Some have criticized Mr. Scheidler for opposing the Bradley appointment. However, in a Notre Dame true to its mission, Joe Scheidler would be, not a target of recrimination, but a candidate for the Laetare Medal. That might make up for the bestowal of that medal on pro-abortion Snn. Daninl Patrick Moynihan in 1992. 
Our leaders act in what they consider the best interests of Notre Dame and its students. But .John Paul II has reminded us all of om responsibility to be "uncondi­tionally pro-life." Unfortunately, the de facto official religion of this university is the pursuit of politically correct prestige, which is perhaps fueled in part by the old Catholic inferiority complex. One may fairly doubt that our striving-for­respectability leaders would have invited Sen. Bradley if he had played basketball for UNLV instead of Princeton. 
Prof Rice is on the Law Sclwolfaculty. /lis column appears (l/lery other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column arl' those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DooNESBURY • 0UOTE OF THE DAY 

'once, during Prohibition, I was forced to live for nothing but food and water.' 
-W.C. Fields 


VIEWPOINT 
pagel2---------------------------------------------
------------------Friday, October 2, 1998 
• THE CoMMON Gooo • lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
The Loyal Dissent ofNeo­The Other Side of the Non­
Conservative Economics, Part 1 
In my last column, I described how John Paul II, outmoded intellectual left (18). 
Discrimination 
in the enr.ydicals Laborem Exercens and Centesimus Annus, differnntiates bntween tho free market on the one hand and capitalism on the other. The former keeps the market "circum­scribed within a strong juridical framework" so that the well-being of the whole person comes before simple material comfort and the common good before individual desire. The lattnr lacks such a juridir.al framework such that it reverses the priorities and, according to the Pope, "should 
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ riglitly
be called  
Todd David  'capital­ism."' I ended  
the col­ 
Whitmore  umn by stating that  

-----========------Catholic
neo-con­servativn economics-represented most"forceful­ly in the work of Michael Novak, Richard ,John Neuhaus, and George Weigel-obfuscates the dif­ference between the free market and capitalism in a way that significantly diverges-indeed, dis­sents -from John Paul and Catholic social doc­trine. In the next several columns, I will set out just how this is the case. 
The obfuscation-and the first clue that there is divergence between the Pope and the neo-con­servatives -is the continued usc of the term "capitalism" by the latter for both realities after John Paul has made the free market/capitalism distinction clear in two documents. Neuhaus' com­mentary in his book, Doing Well and Doing Good: The Challenge to the Christian Capitalist, speaks of" a choice of capitalisms" instead of following the Pope's usage. Novak, in his book, The Catholic Ethic and the Spirit of Catholicism, cites the key paragraph (42) from Centesimus Annus to claim, "We are all capitalists now, even the Pope" (101, also note 13) and that there is now "only one form of economics" (101 and 103). Because Novak gives the most thorough-going, Catholic, neo-conserva­tive economic argument here, I will be focusing primarily on his text. There are, as far as I can tell, no significant substantive differences between the social theories Novak, Neuhaus, and Weigel. 
Novak's claims 
that "we are all capitalists," and 
that there is 
now "only one 
form of econom­
ics" are odd given not only the Pope's dis­
tinction between capitalism and the free market, 
but also his emphatic state­ment, also in Centesimus Annus and right after tho claim that there is a "legitimate role of prol'it as an indication that a business is doing well," that it is "unaccept­able to say that the defeat of so­called 'Hmtl Socialism' leaves capital­ism as the only 
model of economic organization" (par. 35). In other words, a market economy is acceptable, but not capitalism as the Pope dcf'ines it. 
Novak equates the Pope's understanding of capi­talism with "early" or "primitive" capitalism (133) or with "libertarianism" (134-135), and so dis­misses John Paul's distinction between capitalism and the free market as ironic (135) because it does not apply to the capitalism that Novak espouses. The differences between John Paul and Novak, according to the latter, then, are merely terminological. The capitalism/free market dis­tinction is "probably because of European emo­tional resistance to the word 'capitalism"' (135), an irrational response the Pope shares with an 

~~~;:----:.:-:----::;~~--===:--:~--.--...._~" genr.e from the latter is outright dissent. Tlw first point to noto is that Weigel did not disagree with my understanding that the non-conserva­tives reject the idea of economic rights. lie sim­ply held that the dis­agreement is not impor­tant. The second point to note is that, contra Weigel's assertion, .John Paul II frequently refers to not only Catholie social teaching, but also to Catholic social doctrine, such as in his insistence in Tertio mellennio adve­niente, "It must be asked how many Christians really know and put into practico the principles of the Church's social doe­trine." It seems, then, that to accept Weigel's social teaching/sexual doctrine distinction with­out qualification, the neo­
'----------------------=---=~___J conservatives would have 
to claim for a second time -the first being their rejection of his free market/capitalism distinction as being merely "emotional"-that the Pope does not mean what he says. A more modest interpre­tation is simply that the neo-conservatives hold a dissenting position on the question of economic rights. In my next column, I will investigate this dissent in more detail. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the Theology Department. · 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
However, the difference between John Paul and the neo-conservatives is more than terminological -something llJore than a papal "emotional" hangover. The juridical structure which circum­scribes the market in a free economy has a differ­ent substantive content for .John Paul than it does for the neo-conservatives, and at the core of that difTm·ence is economic rights. When the neo-con­Sl~rvatives enumerate rights, they limit themselves to what are commonly called civil and political rights-in short, John Locke's "life, liberty, and property." George Weigel, in his Catholicism and the Henewal of American Democracy criticizes Catholic social doctrine for being "rather gener­ous" whe.n it extends the idea of rights to econom­ic and social rights such as tho right to work, to a just wage, to safe working conditions, to housing, and to health care. Novak simply remains sill~nt on the economic anp social rights. Silence on eco­nomic rights in a book that otherwise cites Catholic social doctrine extensivnly makes it appear as if thorP is less differoncc between papal teaching and neo-conservative economies than there in fact is. 
At a conference on global stewardship that Professor Maura Ryan and I directed here at Notre Dame in 1995, I asked Weigel about this divergence from the Pope in these terms: In what way, if any, is neo-conservative divergence from official documents on the question of economic rights different from Charles Curran's divergmH~c on issues such as contraception and homosexuali­ty. It would seem that the claim that there are economic rights, as distinct from both the ques­tion of which economic needs count as rights and the application of those rights to concrete circum­stances, would have considerable authoritative weight given that it is at a high level of generality -far more general than the teaching against artificial contraception -and that claims in offi­cial documents have greater authority in large part to the degree that they arc general in thoir content (see the National Conference. of Catholie Bishops, The Challenge of Peace, pars. 8-12 on this point). 
Weigel replied that one must distinguish between Catholic social teaching and Catholic sex­ual doctrine, suggesting that divergenee from the former is mere disagreement-one can pick and 
choose -while diver­
Debate 

I have noticed as of late much discussion both in Tho Observer and around campus about adding another elausn to the anti-discrimination statement. I have heard very many people proclaiming the pro-clausn argumnnt, but no consideration of any anti-clause arguments. I am not nnrc essarily against the clause, but I think that both sid!•s should be considered, and so I shall pwsent what I would say if I was against the clausn, merely to nnsure that all opinions arc represented be{()f(~ we make our decision. 
If I was the administration, I supposl~ that I would have two objections to adding a clause. First, it may not nnens­sarily be needed. Second, it may not b1~ tlw approprialP way to take care of the problem if then~ is mw. 
If the purpose of communal law is to eorreet wrongs presently happening, then I, as the administration. would not be at all convinced that a new clause would be appro­priate. From their point of vinw, they may not be discrimi­nating at all. If I was for the clause, I would counter this by pointing out the oxampln of Fr. Garrick, as many people have done. As the administration, I would rPquiro a much more concrete example, as there an~ otlwr factors besidns homosexuality which could have resulted in Fr. Garrick's not being scheduled in the Basilica, factors which haV!) been given publicly as the reason for his not being schnd­uled. If he did indeed have very long homilies (perhaps sho~ing the. dramatic flair which is so necessary to bning a professor of theatre), and did not shorten them when asked, then perhaps it was justifiable for him not to haw been sclwduled. I can imagine the rnaction to this next statemnnt, but what if it had nothing to do with his being gay? Certainly there must bn other gay priests on campus, 
and they have not been cen­sured. Based on this, I am not sure that the prerequisite problem has arisen to be cor­rected. 
Secondly, the anti-d iscri mina­tion clause ls worded in a very specific way. It is set up, as far as I can see, to prevent discrimination against. a cer­tain type of quality within people, physical qualities lik1~ skin color, handicap, and gender. These are very obvious qualitins when looking at peo­ple to discern. Being gay is not such an obvious quality. It is a behavioural quality, rather than a physical 


one. If the anti-discrimination statement exists to bar dis­crimination against physical qualities, then cl!mrly it is not appropriate to include a bnhavioural quality in the state­ment. That is not to say that the problem is not to be addressed, merely that the statement is not the appropri­ate place to address it. From the administration's stand­point, the statement of inr.lusion which they released last year would have addresS!!d that behavioral quality, and would have benn just as strong a statement about aco~p­tance as a blanket statemnnt about physical qualities. It would be an even stronger statement, in fact, as ratlwr than being lumped tog1~ther with other kinds of categories, it was given its own address. 
The above roasons make me think that it is not liknly for the administration to change their policins. I hopn that 1 have not offended anyone, as that is not my intent-mere­ly to illustratfl the other side in a debate which has b11en strongly one-sided until now. 
Nathaniel Hannan Freshman, Dillon Hall Theology I Philosophy and Chemistry Major September 29, I 998 


Jl@ D 

Friday, October 2, 1998 -----------Os~ERVER page 13 
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
THE FACTS BEHIND THE SCHOOL 
., •. •.· 
The S ool 
',< 

( Location: Stanford, CA 
Founded: 1885 Enrollment: IJ,075 President: Gerhard Casper 
School Colors: Cardinal and White Nicknatne: Cardinal Stadiutn Capacity: Ss,soo Athletic Director: Ted Leland Conference: Pac-10 

Head Football Coach: Tyrone' . ' ,..,~. '· Willingham 
The Fight Song "Come loin the Band" 
Come join the band And give a cheer for Stanford red Throughout the land Our banner waving overhead Stanford for you Each loyal comrade brave and true With might and main sings this refrain "Forever and forever Stanford red." After the game When Stanford red has won the day Praising her name Down to the field we'll force our way And on the green Each man who joins the serpentine With might and main sings this refrain "Forever and forever Stanford red." 
FAMO·US ALUMNI 

Ted Danson Actor 
Dr. Sally Ride Astronaut, first woman in space 



Ted Koppel ABC network news anchor, host of "Nightline" 
Sandra Day O'Connor Supreme Court Justice 



Hebert Hoover 31st President of the United States 
Diane Feinstein 
U.S. Senator 
'ty.·.'·.·
..... -...... :•
·_ . 
·-_.... . 
~. 
~~~--. /
. 


Jack Pallance Actor 
The Observer • SPECIAL AD SECTION Friday, October 2, 1998 
After The Game. 

-------------------------------------'---­
o 
Trivia 

o 
7 ft TV Screens 

o 
Scat.ing for ()vcr 300 

o 
Ext.rn L:argc Hoot.hs 

o 
Mouth Watering Varict.y of Sandwiches and Entrees 


t;he 

27-SPORT 
PIZZA, BURGERS, APPETIZERS & MORE! 
(} Homemade "n·"'"....,. & Breads 
o Appetizers (}Salads 

f:l Sandwiches and PASTA 
NFL 
DIRECT TICKET FOil SUJIDAY 
No matter where you're from, we'II be showing you team 
Bar Open for Lunch Friday, Saturday, & Sunday 11:30 
"Walking Distance from Campus" 

Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 11 :OOam -3:OOpm 
(219) 272-7376 •130 Dixie Way N., South Bend• FAX 272-7425 
(next to Jlow;ml Johnson) • Call For Reservations 

GO ND! BEAT STANFORD! 

__.FREE EXTRAS~ 
• Parmesan Cheese Crust • Garlic Butter Crust ·Extra Pizza Sauce • Side Of Banana Peppers 
lust Ask· 
!*FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS*! 
NOTRE DAME AREA 
243-1111 
Coupon Necesury Plus Delivery & Tax Where Applicable Nol Yal!d With Any Other Dller 
LIMITED TIME OFFER 

ST. MARY•s AREA 
52750 U.S. 33 N. (Between Clevaland &Oardan Rd.) 
243-1122 



FORMER STANFORD FOOTBALL PLAYERS 

IN THE PAST 
Series Record: 
Notre Dame leads 8,4 
Games in Stanford: 
Notre Dame leads 3'2 
Games in South Bend: Notre Dame leads 4'2 
Last Stanford win: 
Oct. 4, 1997 (33'15 at Stanford) 
Last Notre Dame win: 
Oct. I, 1994 ()4,15 at Notre Dame) 

This year is the IJth match,up between Notre Dame and Stanford. The two teams have played every yea·r since I988, with the exception of the I995 and I996 seasons. 



Gene Washington 
Darrin Nelson 

Director of Football 
all-American NFL great 

Development, NFL 
Phil Satre 

Bob Mathias 
President and 

two-time Olympic 
CEO of Harrah's 

Decathalon Champion 
Entertainment 



Friday, October 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAlL 
Strawberry diagnosed with cancerous colon tumor 
As.mciarcd Press clubhouse at The Ballpark in and it wasn't in his blood. I think Arlington. his surgery will be a success like A.HLJN(;T()N. Tnxas "lie said he'd be line, that hn mine was." 
Darryl Strawbnrry. who over­wants us to go out and win this Davis told Strawberry he ramn a drug prohlt~m and a thing," said pitchnr Andy would bP a phone call away if he shattnmd carnnr to lind sueenss Pnttitte. who took tho call. wants company at the hospital. and happinnss with tlw Nnw Strawberry then spoke with Strawberry told Davis he'd prob­York Yankm~s. was diagnosnd managnr .Jon Torre, who broke ably be there for two to three Thursday with a t:anenrous thn nnws to the playnrs during a weeks. tumor in his colon. dubhousn mooting before prac­Davis said Strawberry's men­
Tlw :{6-yt~ar-old outfinldnr will tien. tal state will be key to his recov­havP surgnry as narly as "Tlwre was cornplote silnnce, ery. Saturday. somn sobbing. vnry sad poopln," "It's just a gradual process," 
"Bnt·.aust~ ol' tl11• loeation ol' llw Torn• said. Davis said. "It's not something 
tumor and Darryl's othnrwisn Strawlwrry also spokn you do ovPrnight. not something I'Xrt~llnnl hPalth. tlw prognosis Thursday with childhood friond you do in one conversation. It's l'or a l'ull rProvnrv is nxrl'llnnt," Frie Davis, who n~turnod from a gradual process and I'm going YankPPS spok;•sman Hick t:olon eanr:nr surgnry in 1997 to to bn thoro for him Pvery stop of CPrTorw said. lnad Baltimore to tlw A.L play­the way." 
Strawlwrry lnarrwd oilS. Tlw Yankees are becoming WPdrwsday thn stomach pain "lin's uphnat about it and Vl~torans at dealing with tragedy hP'd hnnrr PXpnrinndng for morn rnady l'or thn t:hallnnges that in tht\ postseason. During their than month vvas likPly rPiatPd to lw's going to havn," Davis said. 11)96 World Series champi­sonwlhing tnsts discovtwnd in his Strawberry rnentionnd his onship run, Torre's brother, t'olon. liP visitPd tlw rluhhousP stomaeh pain to Davis wlwn th1~ Frank. was at th1~ samn hospital hriPily htd'on• llw Yanknns hnat YanktH1S and Orioles play11d last for a !wart transplant. tlw Tnxas HangPrs to takl' a 2-0 month. A.ftnr Davis said that was Earlier that year, the team !Pad in tlwir first-round playoff his first symptom. Strawlwrry also saw pitchor David Conn had sPriPs, hullnf'l hnl'orn tlw ganw. r·nalizt~d lw nPPdt~d rnPdical surgory to removn an career­
As lhl' tPam i'IPW to Tnxas. lwlp. threal.nning annurysm from his StrawhPrTV rPmairwd in NP\V "liP sort of put two and two right arm. York to llll~lm·go a colorwscopy togntlwr," said Davis. adding tlw C01w. who also played with at Columhia-l'rPshviPrian narly dntPrtion will lwlp Strawbnrry a dm:adt~ ago on thn MPdit·al CPillPr. A.l'tnr gPtting llw StrawbPrrv. "From what lw told Mets. took Thursday's nnws had nPws. lw lniPphorH•d thP 1111' it wasi!'t in his lymph nodns hard. nspncially coming (me day 
fi'Z'Z'%%%%%%%%%%%.%%%%%%:%.%$$$$$$.%$$$$%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%:%%~ 
~ Turtle Creek Apartments I 
~ Will start handing out our application and informational packets for the 1999-~ ~2000 school year starting MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1998, between the ~ou~s of~ ~ 9am & 6pm, Mond~y thru Friday and 1Oam & Spm o~ Satu~days. Applications~~ :&.1 must be picked up 1n person at the Turtle Creek leasing office only and can.not ~ ~ be mailed locally. Apartment availability is on a first come, first serve basis I ~ M with the approved application sets. ~~,:'. 
after the death of former Kansas with this," Cone said. "Wn'rn all City teammate Dan Quisenberry. confident that thero was early 
"We're all very worried, very dntnction and he has the concerned, but we're also all strnngth to boat it." optimistic that hn can beat this," Catcher Jop Girardi said said Cone, speaking with red­Strawberry wouldn't want the dened nyes. tnam to let his illness be a dis­
Cone said he will put traction. Strawbnrry's No. 39 on thn back "We know Darryl would want of his hat before starting Game 3 us to go out and wear his heart Friday night. and determination on our 
"He has thn strength to deal slonvos," Girardi said. 

KAT Photo 

~ Thank you. . .. .. . . _ . ' : 
Yankee outfielder Darryl Strawberry will undergo surgery to remove a
~:z.~~~~"&"&'&"&~"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&~~"&~"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&"&'0;"&"&"&"&"&~~"&"&~~~~~~~~~ cancerous tumor in his colon this weekend. 
all Street Forum 

Your opportunity to learn more about: 
•Investment Banking •Asset Management 
•Commercial Banking •Insurance 
• Careers or Business and Non-Business Majors 
Wednesday, October 7th, 1998 College of Business Administration 
3:00 -lO:OOpm 
Open to all Students Dinner Tickets $5 On Sale: September 28th October 2nd COBA 102 and O'Shaughnessy 
Advance Purchase Necessary 
For more information call: Professor]ohn Affleck-Graves at 631-63 70 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS friday, October 2, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Braves steal Game 2 from Houston salvages split Chicago on Lopez homer as series heads out West 
Associated Press walk, was bunted to sec­left Atlanta with the 
AS'Sociated Press Gutierrez stole third The previous year, his 
ond by Gary Gaetti and series tied because of 
base uncontested. Spiers 15th-inning home run ofTATLANTA stole third after an inten­Tapani's unlikely perfor­HOUSTON followed with a single to Tim Belcher won Game 2It was a magical regu­tional walk to Mickey mance. He gave up five The Houston Astros right on a 1-2 count. of the Yankees' first­
lar season for the Morandini. hits and struck out six in needed a bit more than "We thought if we round series againstChicago Cubs. The post­But former Atlanta nine innings. 
the Killer B's to gain a could just hold 'em, the Seattle. 
season is the same. old shortstop Jeff Blauser Perez got the win in the split with the San Diego game was still tied and It was the Astros' 28ththing. struck out against rookie first postseason appear­
Padres. After Houston we could get the game­victory in their last at­
Two outs from evening Odalis Perez and Lopez ance of his career. blew the lead in the winning run," Spiers bat. It was also the sev­their first-round playoffs threw out Morandani, Though he was 
ninth inning, Bill Spiers' said. enth one-run game theseries, the Cubs wasted a who was trying to Wagner, who 
teams have played thisninth-inning lead when steal second on got the win, was year, ineluding San
Javy Lopez homered, 

the 3-2 pitch. shaky down the Diego's 2-1 victory in thesquandered a great scor­In the bottom of stretch. blowing series opener Tuesday.
ing chance in the 1Oth, 

the inning, the consecutive save "It takes an awful lot ofthen had a defensive Braves struck ehances against pressure off," Houstonmixup in the bottom half quickly against the Mets last manager Larry Dierker
and lost to the Atlanta 

loser Terry month by allowing added.
Braves 2-1 on Chipper 

Mulholland, who homers to Brian The series shifts to SanJones' single Thursday took over for MeRae and Mike DiBgo's Qualeommnight. Tapani. Walt Piazza. Stadium for games
The Braves have a 2-0 Weiss walked with "Billy has done Saturday night andlead in the best-of-5 one out and Tony a heek of a job all Sunday. Left-bandersseries, which moves to Graffanino bunted year," Spiers said. Mike Hampton (11-7) of
Wrigley Field for Game 3 

down the first-"You have to give Houston and Sterlingon Saturday night, when base line to four-a lot of ercdit to llitchcoek (9-7) are
Greg Maddux pitches for · G ld Gl San Diego Padres: 1 Houston Astos: 1 b
t1me o ove Leyritz. He attlec1 scheduled to start GameAtlanta against his for­winner Mark r-;;;;;;:;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;-j Game 1: San Diego 2, Houston 1 ,.....-----,-, and fought off 3. mer team. 
Grace. G 2 H 5 s o· 4 ·~--'"f some good pitehes The Astros had taken
"We couldn't let them 

Grace was late aGmaeme.· 3·.o0usctotonber, 3a,n11 PteMgo ..6'r....rD',fj> and was able to control of the gamnget out of here with a making the throw get a piteh to hit thanks to the Killer B's,split," Jones said. "They to Mulholland cov-for a home run." who finally livnd up to
would have had all the 

ering the bag, and TheObserver/AnneMarieMattingly Wagner threw their nickname. momentum going back to the pitcher missed eight straight fast-Bagwell drovn in
that crazy place in the bag for anl__________________________---;-b:-:a:-~1;-:ls:--;to Leyritz, inc!uding 
II ouston 's f'i r s t t h r e ~~ Chicago. This was huge." error. On the next pitch, Chicago's top winner (19-HBI single with one out a 98 mph pitch that runs and Biggio scorr.d

The Cubs, seeking their Jones lined a drive just 9) during the season, lifted the Astros to a wild Leyritz sent over thn twicn. Bell rifled a 3-1

first World Series title 

inside the left-field line Tapani had a 4.79 EHA 5-4 win over the Padres right-field fence. pitch from formr.r Astrossince 1908, turned sloppy while Weiss trotted home and was roughed up on Thursday, tying their Wagner, who convert-reliever Donne Wall into
after Kevin Tapani's bril­

with the winning run. badly in his previous two first-round playoff series ed 30 of 35 save oppor-the left-field sr.ats for aliant performance. He "It's good to have a lit-starts, giving up 17 hits 1-all. tunities in the regular IPadoff homer in thetook a four-hit shutout 
tie luck in these things," and 10 earned runs in 10 The Astros took a 4-2 season, allowed Ken eighth and a 4-2 lead. 
into the ninth before giv­

Atlanta manager Bobby 2-3 innings. lead into the ninth Caminiti's single with The B's went 0-for-1 0 ing up Lopez's homer Cox said. The Cubs usually try to thanks to the B's-Jeff one out in the ninth in Tuesday's 2-1 loss
into the left-field stands. 

.Jones, who struck out pound teams into sub-Bagwell, Craig Biggio ahead of Leyritz's clutch after going just 2-for-37"lie just got a pitch up in his first three at-bats, mission with Sammy and Derek Bell -but postseason homer. in a sweep by Atlanta in to Javy, and Javy did danced down the line Sosa and the rest of the Billy Wagner allowed a While with the New last year's division
what he's been doing all 

when third-base umpire offense, having scored two-out, two-run homer York Yankees in 1996, 
series. Of course, all theyear," Chicago manager 

Frank Pulli signaled fair. 831 runs to rank third in to pinch-hitter Jim Leyritz hit a dramatic 
Astros were frustratedJim Riggleman said. 

"I don't know how it the league. But Chicago Leyritz. three-run, eighth-inning 
Tuesday when Kevin
"There's a lot of guys in 

stayed fair," Jones said. was routed 7-1 in the Then in the bottom homer against Atlanta's 
Brown struck out 16, the
that clubhouse that are 

"With the night I had, I first game and managed half, Dan Miceli gave up Mark Wohlers to tic 
second-most ever in tho
agonizing right now that 

guess that's a little bit of only four hits Wednesday Hicky Gutierrez's infield Game 4 of the World 
postseason.
we didn't win this ball­

justice." against Tom Glavine and single to shortstop lead-Series at 6. The Yankees On Thursday, theygame." Chicago scored only four relievers. ing off. Brad Ausmus went on to win in 10 eombined to go 3-for-11
In the top of the lOth, 

two runs in two games at Glavine was brilliant, sacrificed, Trevor innings and defeated the 
with four HBis and threeGlenallen Hill led off with Turner Field, but nearly taking a no-hitter into Hofffman relieved, and Braves in six games. runs scored. Bell 

• The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre D?me office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for next­
Classifieds day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for contenr without issuing 
Missing CAMERA !! Lost @ Purdue GameNOTICES (Sect. 29). Please return (at least the film} to 216 Keenan, X3274, or THE COPY SHOP where you found it · LaFortune Student Center I'll be there! We're Open A Lot!!! Mon·Thur: 7:30am-Midnight WANTEDFri: 7:30am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies. ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... we're open! "TAKE 2" 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 SALES and ... EARN $$$$. Early Spring Break Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Padre! Lowest prices! Free Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Meals,Parties & Drinks. Awesome ··umited Offer••. 1800-426­Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With ADOPTION IS LOVE Kitchen,? Free Parties Happily married ND Alumni cou­$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen ple,with adopted 3 year old daugh­$149!1998 BBB Award ter. wants to shower a new baby Winner!springbreaktravel.com with love.Artistic full-time mom,ath· 1-800-678-6386 letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset,trips to "OWN A BMW" the zoo,grandma, play groups,lulla-Earn $$ While you Learn bies,too.This is a home where wish­247-0736 es come true. We'd like to call to get ILOST & FOUND I to know you.Call Shawn & Meg 800-767· 4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp. paid. LOST· BEAR-SHAPED SILVER PIN wffURQUOISE. PLEASE SPRINGBREAK CALL 273-9695. Cancun,Fiorida,Etc.Best Hotels,Parties,Prices.Book Early Lost on 8/28. and Save!!Earn Money+ Free Trips!Campus Reps/Organizations Wanted. LOST steel watch with blue crown. Inter-Campus Programs Blue and black face. Very senti­1-800-327-6013 mental. $50 for return. X2254 www.icpt.com  Now Hiring NEW RESTAURANT/ WINE BAR The V;ne 122 S Michigan St South Bend, IN (next to the Football Hall of Fame) Know a little about wine? Want to learn a lot about wine? Come apply as a server or bar­tender. Want to join an exciting new business and be a part of our team? Please apply within for all positions: servers, bartenders, cooks & bussers. Mon-Fri 9 to 5. Now interviewing. WANTED: Someone to clean in a two bedroom apt. (Turtle Creek) once a week. Will pay $40 per cleaning. contact: Mike, Pat, Chad at 243­1696. FOR RENT 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.S Rooms with private baths,$80· $115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800­418-9487. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info: htlp:I/Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 219-291-7153.  Bed and breakfast Football weekends two miles from stadium 219-277=6832 FOR SALE PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 Beautiful brass bed,queen size,with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plas­tic.$225 219-862-2082 TICKETS NEED A TICKET FOR STAN· FORD? Call Brian @ 243-2623 between 11a.m. and 6p.m. TODAY I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271·9412 WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645  ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Always buying and selling N D foot­ball tickets. 289-8048 HELP!! I need TWO tickets to the STANFORD game. Call me (Amy) at 243-024 7. Need 4 Stanford GAs x3501 Eric Pretty Pretty Please-Need 2 GA's for Stanford Call Anne or Michelle 243-9371 Need Army G.A.s ·not in student section· Call Stephanie @273·0893 Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU tickets.Piease call 908-722-7901. 1 Stanford G.A for sale -Dave x1902 2 Stan GA's 4 sale Dan 634-0951 2 Stan Tix. B.O. Leave Message. 273-1510 2 for Army & Baylor call Steve@ 901-763-7100, x4302 NEED 2 STANFORD TIX GA OR STUDENT 634-3006  PERSONAL FREE PHONECARD 1 per home.$25 activation.Send SASE:Brenda Horton,Dept.O,POB 83461, LA,CA 90083 NOTRE DAME COLLECTIBLES Sale & Auction Oct. 23 -11 am -11 pm LOGAN CENTER 1235 Eddy & Angela For lnio. call 257-0039 Going to Chile next semester! Take advantage of the only Notre Dame-sponsored study abroad seminars on social justice, Maryknoll and I LADES! Applications (due Oct. 14) available in esc. DRUMMER WANTED to work on professional project. Work will be published on a CD in early '99. Serious musicians only, please. Contact Mike at 243-1696 LEARN TO JUGGLE Come Hang out with us on South Quad Friday 1·4. We'll teach you to juggle or maybe try out some of our stuff! http:l/www.nd.edu/-juggling Jaime Morales, you are one tabu­lous guy even if you aren't from Chicago anymore. Matt, you need to have fun with CM Bill H.-it isn't me calling you in the middle of the night. It's your stalker from the Yanni fan club and John Tesh support group.  
-~.­•...::.  -.r •,. •••. -•• • ••.:::::: •  •  

Friday, October 2, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• AMERICAN lEAGUE BASEBAll PLAYOFFS 
Yankees ready for Rangers Indians primed for Fenway 
Associated Press 
Quisenberry, was shak-"We know we can Associated Press ing." 
starting Pete Schourek in 

en by the news about score more than one On Wednesday at 
Game 4?

1\Hl.INGTON, Texas 
Strawberry, but vowed run in 18 innings," said BOSTON Jacobs Field, Indians 
"If it was your son, and

Thn dJaJH:n to sweep 
he'll be composed and Roberto Kelly, 1-for-7 in The cooling-off period manager Mike Hargrove 
he has thrown 3,000­

thn Texas Hangers and 
focused by gametime. the series. "We've just is over. and pitcher Dwight 
plus pitches and aver­

advanen to the 
lie said he plans to got to swing the bats. I After splitting a pair of Gooden were ejected in 
aged 115 pitches a game,

J\nwrican League cham­
write Strawberry's No. believe in our offense. games in Cleveland, the the first inning of Game 
and his career is on the

pionship snrins won't bn 
39 on the back of his We've just got to go out Red Sox and Indians 2. ln the ninth, Boston 
line, and you panicked

tlw main motivation for 
hat. and prove it on the moved Thursday from a third baseman John 
and pitched him too soon

tlw N1~w York Yankens 
"I don't mean this as field." new stadium where tern-Valentin started toward 
and hurt him, I don't 

on Friday night. 
some sort of cheap way Third baseman Todd pers flared to an old the mound after a tight 
think you would be too

Winning for Darryl 
for motivation," said Zeile said he sensed the ballpark where tradition pitch from Mike Jackson. 
happy," Williams said.

Strawbnrry will be. 
Cone, who also was Hangers psyched them-can fire up the most Players didn't think 
"No, Pedro is not pitch­

Up 2-0 in thnir divi­
Strawberry's there would be a ing Saturday."
sion snrins, thn Yanknes 
teammates on the carryover in 
That was good news to

lf~arnnd just bnforn 
Mets from 1987-Game 3 Friday. Schourek.
praetien Thursday that 
90. "Certainly, "It's going to be 
"Maybe they have the

thn stomach pain af'f1iet­
Darryl would a normal game; 
confidence in me and

ing their designated hit­
want me to go out there's no room 
they're trying to protect

ter was caused by colon 
there and pitch. I for mistakes," 
him at thfl samn time,"

cancnr. Strawberry will 
am going to be Cleveland catcher 
Schourek said.

undnrgo surgPry as soon ready to pitch, I'll New York .a.a,uA.~;".''" Sandy Alomar Saberhagen is proof of 
as Saturday. 
tell you that." ~ Game 1: New York 2, Texas 0 • said. the fragility of pitchers'
If David Cone (20-7) 
Cone in vintage The Indians did 
arms. lie was MVP ol' the 

can k.nep confusing form would be Game 2: New York 3, Texas 1 • not want to leave 
1985 World Series as

Hangers hittnrs thn way 
trouble for the Game 3: October 2nd, 8 PM ·•.···.. home with two Kansas City beat St.
David Wells and J\ndy 
Hangers, who losses. 
Louis. Two Cy Young

Pnttitn hav1~ befon~ him, 
have scornd just "It was basical-
Awards later, his career

the tnam can he hack in 
one run in the Boston Red Sox: 1 Cleveland Indians: 1 ly a must-win was in jeopardy after
Nnw York to bn by his 
first two games. • Game 1: Boston 11, Cleveland 3 ~----~ game for us." shoulder surgery in May
sidn. 
It's their worst said Charles 
1996.

• "Tiw thing lw told nw 
production in Game 2: Cleveland 9, Boston 5 Nagy, Cleveland's lie missed most of two
was, ·Go out and gnt thn 
cons c cut i v e Game 3: October 2, 4 PM Game 3 starter. seasons, then returned
job done,"' Yankees 
games since latn "To come here 
and beat Seattle's Randy

manager .Joe Torre said. 
June. L:::::::::::~________________:!T~he~~~~~~~~ down 0-2 is pret-.Johnson in his first start
"I think that everyone 
A big problem ty tough." 
this year. lie went 15-8,

realizes that's what he 
has been the middle of selves out a bit in the detached modern Especially since the 
one of the more remark­


wants us to do. 
Texas' lineup. !lusty first two games in New ballplayer. game starts at 4:07p.m. 
able comebacks of the

llopnfully, wlwn this is 
Greer, Juan Gonzalez, York. "We won't have our EDT. If it's sunny, there 
'90s.

all do1w. lw will bn able 
Will Clark and Ivan "Playing in Yankee fans behind us," said will be late-afternoon 
''I'm very close if not

to enlnbratn with us, if 
Hodriguez arc a com-Stadium against a club David Justice, whose shadows that make it 
completely all the way

we are fortunate 
bined 4-for-31. that's won 114 games, three-run homer helped even harder to hit 
back to where I wanted

nnough to go on and do 
Overall. the Hangers with all the press and the Indians tie the series. against a tough pitcher. 
to be," Saberhagen said.

what we want to do." 
have 'drawn just one fans surrounding them, "We're going to have to If Boston loses Game 3, 
"Contributing is nice, but

Cone, already dealing 
walk -to the leadoff I think we got a little come in here and try to will Red Sox manager 
contributing to a team

with Wndnnsday's death 
hitt-er in Game 1 -caught up in it and lost steal one or two. The Jimy Williams bring back 
that's in the postseason

of former Kansas City 
while striking out 19 focus on what we were atmosphere is great. Pedro Martinez on three 
is ~hat I was playing

t IHtllllll at1~ Dan 
limns. there to do," Zeile said. This place will be rock-days' rest instead of for. 

Stop by the Library Mall today and see the Cemetery of the Innocents. 4,400 crosses memorializing the 4,400 babies lost each day to abortion. 
"The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. " 
-John 1:5 
Respect Life Week October 1998 
Events 



Contact Notre Dame/SL Mary's Right to Life for more information: 1-9006 * www.nd.edu/-prolife * prolife.prolife.1@nd.edu Pro-Life Library available in 314 LaFortune-stop by anytime! 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 2, 1998 
•NBA 

Basketball Hall of Fame to induct Larry 'Legend' 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 
While Michael Jordan and Magic Johnson have engaged the public in ways other than basketball, Larry Bird has done it in just one way: with his game. 
It was enough to elevate him above others. for both the pub­lic and the Basketball Hall of Fame. 
"He let his game speak for him," said Lenny Wilkens, coach of the Atlanta Hawks. "There were a lot of guys like that when I was coming up. That was the tenor of the times. He's a throwback." 
Bird will be inducted Friday night into the Hall of Fame, along with players Marques Haynes of the Harlem Globetrotters and Arnie Risen, a member of the Boston Celtics like Bird. 
Other inductees are coaches Alex Hannum of the 1967 NBA champion Philadelphia 76ers, .Jody Conradt of the University of Texas, and Aleksandar Nikolic of the former Yugoslavia. 
Wilkens, who was inducted as a player in 1989, will be hon­ored again, this time as the winningest coach in NBA histo­ry. 

Asked Thursday how he wanted to be remembered, Bird said simply: "The way I played the game." 
"I always thought I played the game at a level that I was pleased with," he said. "I always tried to play as hard as I possibly could and I always pre­pared myself to play." 
With his magical knack for winning, his untiring hustle and consistency even through injury, Bird very much fanned the fiery, television-driven growth of the modern NBA. Yet he often seemed to hail from an earlier generation than other superstars of his time. 
The product of small-town life from Indiana, Bird, 41, has kept a strong sense of privacy throughout his spectacular career. Not flashy or telegenic, Bird has endorsed fewer prod­ucts than Jordan. 
lie let his basketball do his entertaining. He won three NBA championships and had career averages of 24.3 points, 10 rebounds and 6.3 assists. 

OVERLOOKING THE PLAYING FIELD AT COVELESKJ STADIUM 
Complete BanquetFacilities Year Round 
f"'uus<>utdoor ~ & CaiJelo b:tg Fc:r Up To 2.,.500 
Customized Catering to accomodate any occasion including Dances and Notre Dame Tailgate Parties 
STATE OF THE ART AUDIO & VIDEO 
K.C. Jones, who coached Bird at Boston, said he simply didn't want to be a public personality. "Bird is a Marine: get down in the trenches and go from there -without all the French pas­try," he said. 
Growing up in West Baden, just outside French Lick, Larry Joe Bird fell in love with bas­ketball at age 13. At first, he was told he was too small, weak and slow -and a bad jumper. He grew to a sturdy 6­foot-9, but the slights about his speed and jumping nagged him through his days as an NBA for­ward. Yet his powerful drive to win was rarely denied after 197 4, when he dropped out of Indiana as a 

freshman. 

He eventually played so well for Indiana State that the Celtics drafted him as a junior. But he went back for his senior year, and his team lost only one game that season: the NCAA championship to Michigan State and its star, Johnson. 
Beginning with the Celtics in 1979 until his retirement in 1992, he led Boston to NBA championships against Houston in 1981 and 1986 and Los Angeles in 1984. Despite being hobbled by back and foot injuries, he played on the 1992 
U.S. Olympic gold medal team. lie was a three-time NBA most valuable player and twice an NBA Finals MVP. 
lie called the 1986 team the best. 
"We had (IIall of Farner) Bill Walton, Scott Wedman and a number of guys that could come off the bench and get the job done," Bird said. "In our start­ing lineup, Kevin McHale was having one of his better years and everyone stayed rnlatively healthy the entire,Year. It was an awesome team. 


Boston great Larry Bird will be inducted into the Hall of Fame on Friday along with Globetrotter Marques Haynes, fellow Celtic Arnie Risen and three coaches from various basketball leagues. 
John M~ Marshall's, Inc~ 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum~ 
-

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 


Friday, October 2, 1998 

I 
I 

:0MPU5 
.MINISTRY 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
Dear .Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an in vitiation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend 
Stanford Football Weekend October 3 and 4, 1998 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
....­

Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
~ Sundav Masses 
... 

Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 
9:30 & 11:00 am 

-I 
... 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 2, 1998 


Badin, Walsh flag down midweek competition 
By BRIAN J. HOBBINS hoping to keep the Sporrs Writer Badin 12, Howard 6 momentum going this Sunday against BP Pangborn 0, Lyons 0 The evening's second while a winless match up featured a battle of the Howard team is just 
Wednesday's interhall league winless, as Howard Hall met up hoping, "to get the play was headlined in a South with Badin Hall. Howard offense together and Quad duel fe·aturing Pangborn opened up strong with smoothly pull out a win." and Lyons Halls. The two teams executed offense. Their efforts 
kickPd off the rain swept night were rewarded as Sarah Walsh 12, with a tense matchup that Murray broke for a long run to Cavanaugh 6 would end in a scoreless tie. take the early lead. 
Both teams' offense suffered However, a tough Badin Seemingly unbeat­as a result of the less than squad refused to give up. able Walsh met up favorable conditions. Lyons' Helena Pan grabbed a crucial with Cavanaugh Hall 
Katv Yanez attributes the lack interception to put the wind to wrap up the of oi'fensive spark to, "Execution back in Badin's sails. After reju­evening's play. A errors. missed catches and bad venating defensive play, a hot Walsh team that was passes." Bad footing also played Badin offense evened up the notorious for shutting a role in the scoreless night. score on a Betsy Cavo reception out opponents and 
Lyons' Lisa Thomas and from Prissy Clements. Gutsy racking up scores Chrissi Scotti threatened on the play from Clements, whose sea­was in for a shock defensive side of the ball with son was believed to be over when Allison Krilla 
key interceptions but the Lyons after an early-season injury, put up six points for offense would not click. The provided the motivation for Cavanaugh on a Pangborn offense couldn't find Badin to keep going later in the quarterback keeper. its groove either contributing to game. Looking to work the ·pressures acknowledged by Krista Jones soon followed with their six points, 
both teams' defensive squads, suit with a dash to the end zone the Cavanaugh squad The Observer/Liz Lang played, "the toughest Badin Hall beat Howard yesterday to earn their first win of the season. ' 
"We were really evenly to give Badin a 12~6 lead. 
matched." Yanez stated. Howard captain Julie Wernick game all year," pressure as· Cavanaugh's best The second pick came late in Similar sentiments could be attributes the team's misfortune according to captains Sarah efforts were not enough to stop the game leading to the decisive seen in the rest of the players. to a Stepan field that was, "just Kaufman and Melissa Pacey. In the Walsh attack. Parnell Perry touchdown that wrappedAs the final tense seconds melt­mud." a match that boasted, "No weak hooked up with freshman sen­up a 4-0 mark for a still unbeat­ed away, both teams seemed Additionally, outstanding spe­spots," Hunter Champagne and sation Kelly. Perry on the ny and able Walsh. With a playoff spot relieved to walk away with the cial teams efforts from Badin the defensive backs held tight on the run for two Walsh touch­wrapped up, Walsh has little to tie. A 2-1-1 Lyons team is look­punter Chelsea Dodson sealed a coverage while Suzie Prchal and downs. Walsh captain Amy · play for but pride while a 1-2 ing forward to the next few decimated Howard offense on the defensive line worked to Krayer believes a lot of credit Cavanaugh team will look to games to lock up a playoff spot, the two yard line, which in turn pressure Walsh quarterback 
belongs to defensive backs squeeze back into the playoff
while Pangborn continues to sealed the game and Badin's Caroline Parnell. 
Melissa Biting and Nani Au who picture when they meet a win­live one game at a time. first win of the season. Badin is Parnell thrived under the rounded up two interceptions . less Howard team on Sunday. 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

NC State pulls off second huge upset, toppling Syracuse 
Associated Press in the opening half while hooking up six times for 132 after a fumble by Wolfpack and a porsonal foul against the building a 28-10 lead. yards as the senior became the fullback Jeff Butler, cutting the Orangemen was added on the RALEIGH. N.C. N.C. State upset then No. 2 school's career leader in N.C. Sta~e margin to 14. But play to kill the drive -and 
Jamie Barnette upstaged Florida State 24-7 on Sept. 12 receiving yards. aftet driving Syracuse to mid­ultimately the hopes of Donovan McNabb as North to move to 20th in The McNabb tried to rally field early in the fourth quar­Syracuse, which came in aver­Carolina State pulled off its Associated Press poll before Syracuse with an 8-yard scor­ter, the scrambling McNa:bb aging 4 7 points a game, third second major upset in three falling out after a 33-30 loss at ing pass late in the third quar­was sacked for an 18-yard loss in the nation. weeks Thursday night, rolling Baylor. That win over the ter up more than 500 yards in a Seminoles, coupled with the 38-17 victory over No. 11 Syracuse upset Thursday, are Syracuse. the biggest in the same season 
Barnette had 349 yards of for the Wolfpack since victo­total offense himself, throwing ries over No. 8 Penn State and for 282 and rushing for 67 No.13 Florida in 1975. 

THt 
more. The Orangemen (2-2) are 
The junior quarterback now winless in six tries against threw for one score and ran the Wolfpack, including last for two more as the Wolfpack year's 32-31 overtime loss at (3-1) held McNabb the Carrier Dome. Syracuse's lleisman Trophy Torry Holt was once again candidate -to 17 total yards Barnette's favorite target, 
Celebrate 15 Years of The Blues Revue with Ole Harv! 
This Saturday (October 3rd) 8:30 p.m. Convention Hall, Century Center, South Bend featuring 
The Little Frank Band 
& 

W.C. Handy Award winners 
Rod Piazza & The Mighty Flyers Tickets $15 Advance/$20 Door 
Bring your Oct. 3rd Notre Dame Game ticket stub for advance ticket price at the door! 
For more information call WVPE (219) 674-9873 ~[§j·

.. , 
~ZIMMv5~ ..
c I, I) RED'S\.._}J.._)~ rlte.UJOODWJ.ND . --=---= 
~ Ti\VEKN !2®~ Paw'l5hop &:'"Blt4SSWIMI. 


l~riday, October 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
• ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners face tough competition at NO Invitational 

Ryan Shay will try to will try improve on his 11th place finish at last year's invitational today. 
(---------~-------------------------------1 more Ryan Shay 
will endeavor to see 
that last year's sec-

It doesn't matter if you win or lose, it's whether there's a WHOPPER® after the game. 
Mter the game, nothing beats the taste ofa delicious flame-broiled WHOPPER"' made your way. And right now it's just $2.09---------Now, that's reason to cheer. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better. 

Cl t 998 Burger K1ng Corporation Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Whopper and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 

By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Sports Writer 
Another great fall weekend of cross country competition is tak­ing placr, in Notre Dame's own backyard this weekend. The 43rd running of the Notre Dame Invitational is sr,t for today at the Notre Dame Golf Course and will be the first true test for both the men and women in 1998. 
Over (JO teams will converge on campus today and the com­petition will he the fir,rccst of this young season. Tht~. 32nd­ranked women will run against No. 10 North Carolina State, No. 22 Baylor, and No. 25 Bowling Green, trying to best their sec­ond plac11 !inish from a year ago. 
Junior .JoAnna Deeter, winner of the first two meets of the year, is aiming for her second 
· individual championship in three trir.s. Deeter will not be the only Irish runner at the head of tho race though. Fellow 
juniors Alison Klemmer and Patti Hice have run strong in the 
early meets and look to continue their improvement. 
"It is time for people to step up and make a big run," women's head coach Tim Connelly said. "We have to run a better middle race than the last meet (the National Catholic, also run on the Notre Dame golf course) if we want the kind of success we are looking for." 
Sophomore Erin Olson. junior Erin Luby, and sophomore Bridget O'Brien all finished in the top 20 at the National Catholic and will hope to repeat that performance today. 
"All of the training we have been doing gets tested today. It is time to get serious," Connelly said. 
The 15th-ranked men will also be challenged by a highly ranked team. No. 4 North Carolina State will be just as determined as Eastern Michigan was last year to keep the Irish in second place. Senior Antonio 
Arce, coming off an 8th place finish a year ago, and sopho­


ond-place l'inish will not be repeated. 
Shay finished 11th in the '97 Invitational and comes off a dominating run two weeks ago at the National Catholic. Arce and the other senior leaders of the team, Tim Englehardt and Hyan Maxwe11, also ran wt~ll in the National Catholic, finishing in .the top seven. Freshman Luke Watson. having run to two top-1 0 finishes this year alroady. will also make his impact felt. 
"It will 1m a chalhmging meet," men's lwad coach Joe Piane said. "NC State will push us !Wim harder than Loyola (Chi) did at the last meet." 
The Notre Damn Invitational was created by former coach Alex Wilson in 195(>. making it one of th1~ oldest invitationals in the nation. Both Irish teams are determirwd to dnl'end their home turf and conttmd for !irst place. The first race of the day begins at 2:45 p.m. with a gold mnn's race. The JV women and men compete at 3:30 p.m., fol­lowed by the varsity women at 4:15p.m. and the varsity men at. 5 p.m. 
... 

-
·­... 
• I 

~--------------------------~--~~ 
page 24 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 2, 1998 
Partial-birth abortion procedure. Step 5. 
"[T]he surgeon then forces the scis~ors into the base of the skull ... IHle spreads the scissors t_o enlarge the opening. The s_urgeon remo~es the ~c1ssors ~nd introduces a suct1on catheter mto this hole a~d evacuates the skull contents. With the catheter ~ttll in place, he applies tractio~ to.~he fetus, removing 
it completely trom the patlent. 
.. .-·.···~······~~·········-"'-'''' ...~-··""""'''"-''"--" ........~.~ 
Text from Martin Haskell. M.D 

.~ Dilation and Exuoa1on (or Late Second TnmesrerAborlion 
)'OUR CONSCIENCE SAyS THIS IS WRONG. 

Curtis R. Cook, M.D. Pamela Smith, M.D. C. Everett Koop, M.D. Nancy Romer, M.D. 
Millt'lll,llll'lnl Ml'tiKIIll'. Bul1t>rw01111 llllt'' tol ol Ml'<IH,lll duc(l\1011 Dt>p\ ol former Un1lt'CI Slatt>\ ~liHJ£'011 G~nt>ml Ft>llow. Auwnc.an Colle.:Jf' of Oh/Lyn, Ho'>pl\<tl M1tluy..1n ',\nit• ('olll''Jl' Oll!>lt>\11( '>ll. (,ylll'tulu<JY Ml Su1,11 Chn1<.:al Proft•s~or, Ol1/Gyn. Wmjll\ Stale olllllllli!ll Mt•chc uu• Mt><hwl Ct•Jllt'l l luc iliJO. It Mt>lllllt>J Llnrver.o.lly, Cll<llrnmn. DPtll. of Oh/C.yn. A\\OCI.lllllll nll'tult">\Cl~ til ()\J!Gyn Mkltlll Valley Hospital. OH 
A NATIONAL COALITION OF DOCTORS SAyS IT'S UNSAFE AND UNNECESSARy. 


SOMEBODY BETTER TELL SENATOR BRADLEy. 
The Physicians' Ad Hoc Coalition for 
Truth (PHACT) was formed because 

we, as physicians, can no longer stand by 
while abortion advocates, the President 
of the United States and the media 
continue to repeat false claims to 

members of Congress and to the public 
-
about partial-birth abortion. We are 
over 600 doctors strong, most 

specialists in obstetrics, gynecology, maternal/fetal medicine and pediatrics. 
-· By congressional definition, partial­birth abortion is the killing of an infant who has already been partially delivered outside his or her mother's body. Medically, it is accomplished by pulling an infant feet-first out of the birth-canal until all but the head is exposed. The surgeon then forces scissors into the base of the baby's skull, spreads them, and inserts a suction catheter through which he suctions out the brain. 
Congress, the public -but most importantly women -need to know that partial-birth abortion is never medically necessary to protect a mother's health or her future fertility. On the contrary, this procedure can pose a significant threat to both. In the words of former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop: 
PHACf 

"In no way can I twist my mind to see that partial birth -and then destruc­tion of the unborn child before the head is born -is a medical necessity for the mother." 
Now y9u know the facts. 
We urge you to tell Senator Bradley to stop this unnecessary and dangerous procedure. It's important that your voice be heard. 
IT'S youR CALL. 1-973-643-QSOO. 
Physicians' Ad Hoc Coalition forTruth 
510 King Stl-eet. Suite A. Alexandria, VA 22314 


hiday, October 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS • page 25 


(rankings in parentheses are from NSCAA!Umbro poll of Sept. 28) 

.....
BIG WEEKEND FOR 
IRISH ATHLETICS 
MEN'S & WOMEN'S 
MEN'S TENNIS 
SWIMMING & DIVING 
Friday Oct. 2nd 7:30pm 
Friday Oct. 2nd ~:OOpm 
vs. #1 Stanford 
vs. #1 Stanford 
Eck Tennis Pavilion
uatic Center 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 28 
coming tog1~ther as a squad. 
Bnene has had littln work in nnt thanks to the team's out­standing def11nse. 
.len Grubb narned Big East dnfnnsive playnr of the week honors for tlw seeond straight wnnk and for tho third time this season. Shn was also namnd the dnfensive MVI' of last WIH~kPnd's tournamnnt. (;ruhh dislwd out three assists over tlw wneknnd, bringing lwr tnam-lnading total to nine. 
Grubb has also been han­dling the corner kick duties this season and so far the Irish havn converted nine of their R 1 corrwrs. 
"She's doing ;i.nd awesome job." said Benne. "She has 
groat placnment and is getting the ball right to their heads." 
Grubb and Makinen have been a deadly combination, as Makinen has four goals off cor­ner kicks already this season. 
Sophomore defender Kelly Lindsey bas been the reason for some concern. She had to IHave last Sunday's game to injury and did not return. 
"Kelly has a chronic knee problem," said Petrucelli. "She 
going to need surgery on  both  
knees at the end of the  sea­ 
son."  

This weekend's opponents both have losing records, but Butlnr and Georgetown are showing signs of improvnment in recnnt wnnks. 
Thn Irish will look to contin­ue their dominance ovnr both these teams when they close out their six-game homestand this weekend at Alumni Field. 

M.Soccer 
continued from page 28 
cially with some of its key scor­ers not yet fully recovered from injuries. 
Andrew Aris, Scott Wells, and Ben Bocklage returned to the lineup last w~Jekend against St. John's, but were still battling early-season injurins. A week later, the squad looks for them to rntum to near top form to get the Irish scoring first. 
Leading the defense on the Hoyas squad is goalkeeper Tyler Purtill, the Big East player of the week for Sept. 14. Aftnr averag­ing a little over thrnn goals in the first three games, the Irish have been held to a little over one goal in the five overtimn games. A more aware defense has held the threat from the Irish frontline of Walton, Ryan Cox and tho mid­fielders to a minimum. 
Notre Dame's defense has also suffered a slow down in recnnt games, allowing thn opposition to hit thn goal first. A solid defensivn 
ERALL  
L  T  
0.  0  
1  2  
3  I  
.1  3  
2  1  
'"2  0  
5  ()  
4  0  
3  2  
2  0  
5  I  
7  0  

The Observer/Joe Mueller 
backfield will anchor the team to hnlp gnt a jump start. 
"We've bmm playing well indi­vidually," said co-captain Phil Murphy. "But we need to start playing more collectively as a tHam on defense." 
Against a team as strong as Georg<~town, the Irish will nned it. Despitl• two lossns in the Big East. the llnyas arn 7-2-0 in nvnr­all play, including knocking homn an average of 2.5 goals a gaml). Leading their charge is forward Erie Kvello with seven goals and four assists in thn snason. 
The Observer/Brat Hogan 

Meotis Erickson (10), and the Irish will take on Georgetown and Butler this weekend. Both Georgetown and Butler have losing records. 
Need Cash?? Earn $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
~------------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per n1onth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your titne. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 1 0 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
singles after playing at the bot­

tom of' the Irish lineup a yoar ago. continued from page 28 "Andy's jump to No. :3 is a reflection of how far he has 2. 
Tennis 
come more than about anyPatterson will movfl up to No. 2 
weaknesses we have," said 

singles after posting a 19-2 Bayliss.
record at No. 3 singles a year 
The Irish will put forth a ago. Warford moves into No. 3 
sophomore and two freshmen in 

-----------------------------------------~ 
.Notu 'Dame 1-ilm, \'leletJision, and \'lheatu pzesents 
Wed., Oct. 7 7:30p.m. 
Thurs., Oct. 8 7:30p.m. 
Fri., Oct. 9 7:30p.m. 
Sat., Oct. 10 7:30p.m. 
Sun., Oct. 11 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 
Seniors $8 
All Students $6 

Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631·8128 
___________________________________________j 

the bottom hall' of' the lineup. Frnshrnan Casey Smith, who won his flight at the Hiee Invitational on Sept. 20, will hold down the No. 4 singles spot, while sophomore Matt Daly will play at No. 5 singles. Freshman Andrew Laflin will round out tlw Notre Damn singlns lineup at No. 6. 
In addition to Wolters. 
Stanford will eountl~r with a 
combination of juniors Geoff 
Abrams, ranked 53rd, and 
David llausnr. sophomorns Ali 
Ansar·i, 30th-ranked Alex Kim 
and Seotty Scott and 95th­
ranked freshman K.J. 
llippcmstnel. Ilippnnst1~nl nnt1•rs 
Stanford after a standout junior 
earner which he rapped on· by 
winning the boys' junior doubles 
title at the U.S. Opnn. 
In doubles, Patterson and 
Sachim will team up for the first 
time to form tho preseason 
28th-ranked tean, in the coun­
try. Patterson teamed with the 
now-graduated Jakub 
Pietrowski in the past, and the 
pair qualified for thn last two 
NCAA championships. They 
likely will face 21 st.-ranked 
Wolters and Hippensteel. 
Daly and Smith will pair at No. 
2 doubles for the Irish, whiln 
Warford and freshman Aaron 
Talarico will play at No. 3. 
"The individual matchups 
could be intriguing," said 
Bayliss. "We are still searehing 
for chemistry in doubles and 
that concerns me, but Stanford 
hasn't had a lot of time to pre­
pare either. We'll havn to snn 
how things go." 

page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 2, 1998 
• VOLLLVBAll 

Irish begin Big East conference play this weekend 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Novice Women's Boxing -Informational meeting will be held on Oct. 7 at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Boxing Room (enter Gate 3 and take the stairs down to the room located on the opposite wall of the Football and Basketball offices). For more information please call RecSports at 1-6192. 
Domer Run -The annual Domer Run is scheduled for Oct. 10 at 11 a.m. The race begins at Stepan Center. It is a 3 mile, 6 mile run or 2 mile walk. Pancake breakfast after the race. Register in advance at RecSports. The cost is $6. Proceeds ben­efit the Catherine Peachey Foundation, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research. For more information, contact RecSports at 1-6100. 
One Night Badminton Tournament -Sign-up for the one night tournament in singles and doubles divisions. The tourna­ment will be held on October 9 at 6 p.m. at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. For more information, contact RecSports at 1-6100. 
Saint Mary's Track -Anyone interested in track and field should attend a meeting on Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility on the campus of Saint Mary's College. 
[[3 !fo~~!~~!~~w!!!~!s~~~ Po:g:~~ ~ff~~~ks! 
All Stadium Seating • All Digital Sound 2340 N. Hickory Rd. • Mishawaka 
West of Main Sl on Chippewa • South Bend 
S4.00 All Shows Before 6 pm 
. ~-. ..:. . S4.00 All Shows Before 6 pm 
An1z
:1 & 
2:00, 7:00, 9:00
Rush Hour 
R 
Something About Maty R
11:45, 12:45, 2:15, 3:00. 4:45 
2:15,4:45,7:15,9:45
5:30,7:20.8:10,9:40, 10:20 
Night at the Roxbury 

PG-13
Rounders 
R 
2:15,5:15, 7:30,9:30
1:10,4:30.7:15, 10:00 Urban Legend 
R 11:50,2:40, 5:20, 8:00, 10:10 Saving Private Ryan R 12:30. 4:05. 8:05 
Armageddon 
PG-13 12:50,4:50,8:15 One True Thing R 1:15, 4:20, 7:05, 9:55 Antz R 


• 
Something About Mary R 1:45, 2:45, 4:15, 5:10, 6:45, 12:00.2:35,5:10,7:45, 10:15 7:20, 8:45, 9:20 Ever After Air Bud 2
PG13 G 12:40, 3:50, 6:45. 9:25 2:20, 4:30, 6:50, 9:00 

-~ 
Dr. Dolittle Parent Trap

PG-13 PG-13 12:15,2:20,4:35,6:40,9:15 1:30, 4:20, 7:00, 9:40 Blade Halloween H20
R R 1:40,4:15.7:10,10:05 2:30. 4:50, 7:30, 9:30 Ronin Mask of Zarro 

R PG-13 1:00, 2:00, 4:00, 5:00, 7:00, 7:40 2:00, 5:00, 8:00 9:45,10:25 
What Dreams May 

PG-13.. 12:00, 1:30, 2:30, 4:10, 5:10, 6:50, 
7:50, 9:30, 10:30 Night at the Roxbury 
PG-13 12:20, 2:50, 5:15, 7:30. 9:50 



By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sporr~ \X/ritl4 1" 
If tlw numlwrs are any indica­timl. .'1/otre Dame's \:oiiPyball tPam will fan' two wry similar tPams this WPI'kl'nd in tlw start of eonfPrPnce play. 
Tlw Fighting Irish (:)-;)) host tlw S<'lon Hall l'iraws tonight and llw Hutgcrs Scarlt~t Knights on Sundav. Both SPton llall and Hutg!'rs Jjring 7-7 rcrords into the WP!'kcnd. with a loss for each lPam coming against NPw llampshir<', an opP.,onnnt thn l•·ish ch•f'Pated Parlier this sna­son. "iotrP Dame has beaten tlw two tnams in all prnvious match-ups. boasting a 3-0 all­timt~ record against Seton Hall and 4-0 vnrsus Hutgcrs. 
NotrP Dame rPturns to action at 8 p.m. tonight after going nearly two weeks without a match. 
"We've had a coupln weeks of very intense. good practices," said head coach Debbie Brown. "We've worked a lot on individ­ual things with people and made a Jot of individual goals. A lot of our goals are a little more process-oriented. If everyone improves their game just one percent or a couple percent, we're going to be a lot better." 
"The time off has kind of refo­cused us and given us 11 good days of practice to get better, and I n~ally think WI' have got­ten bPttPr." said senior captain Lindsay Tn~adwl'll. 

It is tlw team's first timP play­ing at honw since SPpl. f>. com­ing off flyp straight matches on the road. llopefully, tlw JoyrP Centnr will be kinder to thP Irish than the road has been, as four of those livP matrhns Wl'n' lossPS. Last spason. the Irish wen' 10-3 at home. 
Sl'ton Hall Pnters conference play following an up-and-dov\'11 start to its snason. Tlw Piratl's have bnen trying to adjust after tlw loss of first tPam all-Big East hitter Jennif«'r Cheshire. tlwir top player a year ago, to gradu­ation. Coarlwd by Stephanie Mos~. the wam is sliding on a three-game losing streak. 
"I think they do a pretty good job of everything," said Brown. "but are not ouL<>tanding in any one area." 
Top players for the Pirates are senior Jacki Woodford and sophomore setter Kadri Kruus. Woodford is averaging 3.2 kills per game. 
She has also recorded 132 digs and 19 blocks this season. Kruus has 446 assists, 35 ser­vice aces, and 34 blocks in lead­ing the Seton Hall attack. 
Rutgers, under the lead of fifth-year coach Ann Leonard­House, will be seeking its first win over the Irish. The Scarlet Knights' strongest feature is balance. 
They return five starters from last season. Cheri Drake aver­ages over 3.5 kills per game, and has a .394 hitting percent­age. 
Setter Sheri Kujawa has over 11 assists per game and Mary Kiriakou comes in with 65 blocks this year. 
"They are a little bit more experienced," said Brown. "They will provide maybe a lit­tle more challenge in that some of their hitters are pretty good, so we'll need to try to take their shots away." 
Notre Dame will look to Treadwell to continue her strong hitting and leadership, and setter Denise Boylan to play consistently in setting up the Irish attack. 
The Irish will bo aided by the return of junior middle blocker Mary Leffers. She played a lim­should bn able to take on a big­ited amount in the Michigan ger role this wnnkend as she State Tournament after return­gets healthier and returns to ing from on·-season surgery. She mateh-level competition. 


INTERRACE 

Anyone interested in a discussion and support group for people of biracial, multiracial, or multicultural heritage 
or who is involved in an interracial relationship. LET'S DISCUSS IT!!! 
When: Wednesday, October 7, l 998 Time: 5:30pm Where: Center for Social Concerns 
Please RSVP @ l-6841 
Sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
Friday, October 2, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD ND 
WHY 15 -n--1 IS 11AJL80X tN -r'HF 11/DDLE oF 
DAN SULLIVAN 

r.--r'S #drRc PA11E 'S t1EI10!?1AL 1"'"0 ALli/IWI. 
BILL AMEND 


WHo ARE WE 'TRYIN& 
(SI&H) 1 Tl-UNI< IT'S WHY'D You WANT
i(I LOOkS Ll~ THAT 8ASkET­

To KID, QUINCE? 
II: BALL-PLAYING DoG'S 

TIME WE GAVE UP To BoRRow MY 
IG~NAS J'USl AR£1fT 
i FILM CAREER IS SAFE. 

THIS SILLY PLAN 1b MINIATURE NEW 
CUl ouT FoR SPoRTS. 
~ I I<NOW IT'S TOUGH To 

MAI<E lbU A HoLL'Y­'CORk CllY SKYLINE?'
i HEAR, BUT SoMETIMES 
WooD STAR. 

FOXTROT 
~ WE JUST HAVE To BE l HoNEST WITH ouRSELVES. 
I '­

DILBERT 
\ 
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 


A50K I YOU'RE THE WINNER OF" THE PR.E5TIGIOU5 "BROKEN 
BINDER AWARD." 
IT'S A ONCE-IN­A-LIF"ETIME. AWARD THA.T IS VOTEO ON BY '<OUR 
PEE.RS. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gloria Estefan, Lily Tomlin, Rocky Marciano, Conway Twitty 
Happy Birthday: Your heart is in the right place; however, you must always be careful not to lei others take advantage of your generosity and kindness. Look out for No. 1 this year and don't be afraid to focus on your own ideas rather than helping everyone else get ahead. It's finally time to reach for the stars and follow your own dreams. Your numbers: 3, 9, 13, 22, 28, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have to be careful if a friend asks you for advice about his or her love life. You may end up losing both the friend and the mate. You can console, but try not to give any direction. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can't lose today, unless, of course, you choose to get involved in gossip or overwork yourself to the point of exhaustion. Minor health problems will flare up if you don't take care of yourself. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This is your lucky day if you are in the m,idst of a financial deal. Real estate, invest­ments, and other money-making opportunities will turn out to be both successful and fruitful. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Part­nerships will be tense. Don't push your luck. It is best for you to agree for the time being. Any sudden ro­mantic infatuations won't turn into lasting relationships. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make career changes that will increase your current income. Don't be afraid to start your own small business on the side. Don't get inti­mately involved with any of your clients or colleagues. 000 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your ability to do detailed work will dazzle your less creative colleagues. You can make new friends and get involved in new hobbies quite successfully. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be care­ful. Emotional deception will cause friction on the home front. You can expect sorrow to evolve from any information that you might discover. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can meel interesting new friends if you join worthwhile groups. Secret affairs will cause upset. Even the best of friends may not be completely hon­est with you. 0000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make career changes that will put you in a much higher earning bracket. Use your own ideas to fur­ther your business interests. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are not your usual self today. Sudden changes of heart may causes disruFtions in your domestic scene. Trave will be your best outlet. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): De­ception is around you. Be careful how you handle friends and relatives, as they may take things the wrong way. You can make money if you work on personal investments. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sud­den romantic connections may be short-lived. Keep your eyes open and ears alert for any evasive or deceptive statements. Don't bother retaliating; just walk away. 00 
• OF INTEREST 

.• .•· the Nanovic lnstitue for European Studies ln coop­eration with the Department of Government and International Studies presents Jurgen Gebhardt, senior professor of Political Theory of the University of Erlangen; Germany will lecture on "Religion and Politics in the Modern Age." The lecture will take place today at 4:15 in 213 DeBartolo. 
A Brown Bag Discussion will take place today at 
12:30 p.m. C-103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The discussion will center around Alfred Stepan's paper World Religions and Democratization. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 1 Comedian Mort 5 Small dent on a fender 9 Picket line crossers 14 Margarine 15 Cookie with a creme center HI Diamond weight n Vegas card game 11t Dress style 20 Bullfight bull 21 Marx who wrote "Das Kapital" 23 Sault --Marie 24 Flue residue 26 Suffix meaning 
"approximately" 
28 Lucille Ball, e.g. 
30 Where the Eiffel 
Tower is 
32 Feed bag contents 34 Distinctive doctrines 
35 Fast-growing community 37 Housebroken 
animal 39 Savior 42Till bill 43 Yearned (for) 46 Weapon in a 
silo, for short 49 Found's partner 51 Muse of love 
poetry 
52 Organized absenteeism of police officers 
54 Turf 
56 "The --in the Hat" (rhyming Seuss book) 
57 Writer Fleming 58 Greek letter 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Ark builder 62 Greek letter 64 Stew vegetable aa Build 69 Forearm bone 70 Indonesian 
island 71 Appears 72 Christmas carol 73 Settled, as on a 
perch 
DOWN 
1 Cry loudly 
2 Start (and end) of the Three Musketeers' motto 
3 London airport 4 Kooky 5 Martial arts 
schools 6 Rhymester Gershwin 
7 Giraffe's prominent feature 

a Racing vehicle 9 Burn with hot water 31 "Hi, honey!" 50 Exceed in 631900, on a 10 Baseball's follower firepower cornerstone Ripken 33 Egyptian 53 Decrees 
65 Opposite WSW 11 Gets up symbols of life 55 Basketball's &&Rhyming12 Small chicken 36 Verdi opera Shaquille 

-"-+=+=-+:-t.ool 13 Spi riled horses  based on a  59 Woody  
-=+-:::+.=+::':-f"'!~  18 Actress -­ Shakespeare  Guthrie's son  67 Annual  
Scott Thomas  play  61 Rhyme scheme  basketball  
-=--t-'-+.;..;..p""'"::+c-+-'-+-o-i 22 Set a top in motion again  38lncited 40 Kooky  for Mr. Eban?  event: Abbr.  
24 Police radio  41 Of the windpipe  
alert, briefly  44 Greek letter  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
25--Paulo, -:-t-:-+:-+=+c:+"++.=+:-+:+-:-i Brazil  45 "i" piece 4& Long-billed  are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).  
-:-t-:+:--:+=+=+::':+.::+:-t:::+.t::-1 27lnventor Elias -::t::--:t'::::+~:+.::+:-+.::+.::+.::+.:::-1 29 --and yon (in  wading birds 47 Actress Bloom  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last  
m  48 Jumper's cord  50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS.  

boxing champ 
www.nd.edu/-sub 

let's get it on 
-
-
-

_, 
-
-
-
• Men's and women's track and field takes to the home course in the 
Notre Dame

PORTS 
Inviational. 
p.23 
O THE BSERVER


page 28 
• MEN's SOCCER 

Irish attempt to break streak 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Assistant Sports Editor 
No one on the Irish squad wants to come baek from a trip to Georgetown with just one point from a tie. Then again, no one on the team wants to end up anywhere dose to a contest that needs to be decided in overtime. 
After beginning the season on a three-game tear in whieh Notre Dame seored 10 goals to the opposition's two, the team hit a major speed bump in its last five. Setting a sehool record in the 21 years it has eompeted as a varsity sport, the Irish have played five straight games to the overtime period. 
"We eame out of the gates too slowly. We were always fight­ing from behind from then on," commented freshman forward Shane Walton on the latest tie, Wednesday afternoon's 1-1 battle against Western Michigan. 
Unfortunately for the team, that has been the symptom of recent games. In each of the past five games, the Irish have been scored on first. Starting a game lagging behind is not how this squad's offense looks to approach an opponent, espe-

The Observer/Brat Hogan 
Freshman forward Shane Walton, held scoreless in Wednesday's see M.SOCCER I page 25 match at Western Michigan, looks to pick up his play at Georgetown . 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

8-1 Irish face Georgetown, Butler to close homestand 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sunday to take on the Irish at 1 p.m. Assistant Sporrs Editor "We talked about how this is the middle of the season and how we need to come together as a 
The seeond-ranked Notre Dame women's soc­team," said sophomore goalkeeper LaKeysia cer team (8-1) closes out a six-game homestand Beene. "We don't want to lose any games, so this weekend when it faces Butler tonight at 7:30 we're definitely looking to come out and play p.m., before starting a five-game streteh against well." Big East opponents. Notre Dame is playing some of its best soccer 
Georgetown will be the first of those confer­of the season. 
ence opponents, as the Hoyas come to town The Irish have posted four consecutive shutouts on the homestand, outscoring their opponents 14-0 over those four games. 
Junior Jenny Heft is coming off at hat trick against Wake Forest and sophomore Anne Makinen had two goals in last Friday's game against Indiana. Heft 

Wome.n's Soccer 
Schedule 
earned Big East co-offensive player of the week honors for her

Fri. Oct. 2 BUTLij:_R 7~30p.m.
,--. ·:~ 

four goals last weekend, while Sun. Oct.4 GEORGETOWN 1:00 p.m. 
Makinen was named the offen­
i\ 

sive MVP of the Irish Key Bank Fri. Oct. 9 at Boston'College 3:00p.m. 
Classie. 
Sun. Oct. 11 at Providence Fri. Oct. 16 at Connecticut Sun. Oct. 18 t:?aJSeton Hall Fri. Oct. 23 at Michigan Sun. Oct. 25 at St. John's Fri. Oct. 30 .. WMCJmNBIN 
~'':i
Suii. ~.i:~ov. 1 SYRACUSE' 
I •• .. 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 
The Irish are clearly starting to

1:00 p.m. 
gel as a team and head coach Chris Petrucelli is very close to

7:00p.m. 
coming up with a definitive line­

up. "I ean't wait until we finally 4:00p.m.. 
1:00 p.m. 
gel," said Beene. "I think we're already playing great and it'll be 

2:00 ~,.nh 
fun to wateh when we're even better." 

5~00 p.m. 
The Irish defense has also been 


see W.SOCCER I page 25 
vs Stanford at Georgetown § October 3, 1 :30 p.m. October 3, I p.m. S~~' 
• • \/&
·~·u­
• 

vs. Butler vs. Seton Hall Today, 7:30p.m. Today, 8 p.m. S~,rr
"'~ 
• ME!'J"S TENNlS 

Men's tennis opens season with Stanford 
Special to The Observer the final. Second-seeded Stanford 
The Notre Dame men's ten­ended Notre Dame's run with a 
nis team opens its 1998-99 5-0 win at tlw final. dual-match season Friday The 1998-99 Cardinal will be 
night at 7:30 p.m., when tlie led by legendary head coaeh 
Irish welcome defending NCAA Diek Gould, who enters his 
champion Stanford to the Eck 33rd year as head eoaeh at 
Tennis Pavilion. Notre Dame Stanford. Already honored as 
will take a young, untested the Intercollegiate Tennis 
lineup into the match against Assoeiation coach of the 
Stanford, which lost three of its decade for the '90s, Gould 
top four players from 19<)8 to reeently was named tlw United 
graduation and the profession­States Olympic Committee 
al tour. cimch of the year for all sports. "Our guys are really excited Junior All-American Hyan 
about the match," said Irish Sachin~ and senior captains 
head coach and 1998 BIG Brian Patterson and Andy 
EAST coach of the year Bob Warford will lead the Irish Bayliss. "We are anxious to against the Cardinal. Sachire, 
find out where we are at this ranked eighth by the ITA in point in the year." singles in the preseason poll, is 
Notre Dame and Stanford expected to face sixth-ranked 
will square off for the first time Hyan Wolters at No. I singles 
sinee meeting in the 1992 in a rematch of the 1997 NCAA 
NCAA ehampionship match. singles championship second 
The 1Oth-seeded Irish remain round. won by Wi>lters 6-2. 6­
the lowest seed and the only 
see TENNIS I page 25

non-Sun Belt sehool to reach 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Facing the Cardinal for the first time since the 1992 NCAA champi­onships, the Irish look to begin the season on a high note. 

• The volleyball team returns to action at home this weekend. 
p.26 

Friday, October 2, 1998 
Soccer at Adrian College October 3, Noon 
Volleyball vs. Hope College Octover 7, 6 p.m. 


'88 CHAMPIONSHIP IRISH EXCHANGE ROSTERS IRISH INSIGHT THE NATION PAGE2 PAGE3 PAGES PAGE6 PAGE7 
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 2, 1998 
ROAD TO THE 
NOTRE DAME VS. STANFORD 

'88 CHAMPIONSHIP 
~--------­
Rice zeros in on bullseye in thumping of Cardinal 
By BILL HART whether the visitors were Assistant Sports Editor better than their 1-2 record implied. 
Despite leading off the last two weeks On the first play of the sec­with convincing routs over Michigan ond quarter, Stanford quar­State and Purdue, there were still many terback Brian Johnson fum­who criticize quarterback Tony Rice's bled the ball, and Ned Boclar passing game. recovered on the Stanford 1­
Even though the Irish were successful yard line. Sixteen seconds with running the option, the junior had into the quarter, Mark Green completed just 9 of 27 passes and given crossed over the goal line to up two interceptions. increase Notre Dame's lead. 
Entering this week's matchup with Rice added a two-point con­cross-country rival Stanford, Rice used version on a QB keeper and an unusual approach to get himself the Irish never looked back. ready for the game. "When they stopped us at 
"Me and coach Holtz were talking, the goal-line and got the ball and he suggested I get some darts and back, and then fumbled on just throw in my room," Rice said. "It the very next play, that was seemed like it just carried on. Every big," Holtz said. "That got night I just threw darts, and in practice the team up. I'm not saying I could see I was improving a bit." it turned the game around, 
Needless to say, the darts worked. because it didn't. I thought When the Stanford defense started to we controlled the football key on Notre Dame's ground attack, game." Rice took to the air. completing 11 of 14 Even though the Irish car­passes for 129 yards and one touch­ried a 28-7 lead into the down en route to a 42-14 Irish victory. locker room, they still kept 
"Their quarterback did an excellent up their aggressiveness and job running the option and throwing the determination in the second ball," Cardinal head coach Jack Elway half. Rice's three-yard toss said. "[Rice's passing] adds another to freshman tight end Derek dimension to their offense. He was Brown on the first drive of Following a recommendation from head coach Lou Holtz, quarterback Tony Rice improved his passing 
throwing with real accuracy." the third quarter erased all accuracy by throwing darts in his room. 
Of course, Rice's well-known ability to hopes of a Stanford come­run the ball never hurt the Irish, either. back. Brown, along with split end Pat averaged 5.4 yards per carry and "It really helped the offense to have He put that talent to use early in the Eilers, caught two passes on the game, scored five touchdowns on the after­him back," tailback Tony Brooks said of game, running 30 yards for a touch­while sophomore flanker Ricky Watters noon. Johnson. "It helps us do what we want down early in the first quarter to put led the Irish with four receptions. While Rice led the team in rushing to do, which is have two experienced Notre Dame up 6-0. Shortly thereafter, While the Irish passing game got most with 107 yards, it was fullback Anthony backs fresh all the time, and just keep however, it looked as if the pendulum of the fans' attention, it was the ground Johnson who provided a needed spark running the game." was turning in the Cardinal's direction. attack that once again got the job done. to the team. After suffering an ankle As for Rice, he thought that he would A missed 21-yard field goal by Reggie The running game netted 332 yards, 11 sprain against Michigan State two continue his newfound hobby, "I think Ho and a Stanford goal-line stand to end more than the week before against the weeks earlier, the junior returned to the the darts really helped out tonight. I'm the first quarter made some question Boilermakers. The "ground-pounders" lineup to post 58 yards on 14 carries. going to keep throwing them." 


I} (fifirel"ilfj /k:kt Hzza./ 
/Kick off ~ ND Football 
*' d ·~ ~ 
......,..

I I} pap Predicts *'
"""!!(' 
' 

~ NOTRE DAME 45 I} ' 
I} stanford 13 
We wish Coach Davie, His Staff, and the Team success in 

(1827 . Bend Ave.) and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 2-Liter size now available! 

.---r -,
• lr1s ,,
I s . " . J I I 2 L. ,:~i~gs I I 1\!· ~· I I .: .· ;;'199 I 
~-~----.J 


Visa/Mastercard Accepted 
----------------~----~.-------~------------~~~--~----~~--~~--~--------~--~.--..---------~--~~-------------------~------~·~ 
Friday, October 2, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM THE SAN FRANCISCO
IRISH EXCHANGE 
EXAMINER 
Irish offensive style right up Stanford's alley 


By MARK FAINARU-WADA proved a perfect matchup for Stanford. San Francisco Examiner "It seems like when you're playing teams from the Midwest, it's a different style of football," said 
There are 112 teams playing Division 1-A college Stanford wide receiver DeHonnie Pitts, who hails football, and not one of the other 111 is statistical­from Saginaw, Mich. ly worse than Stanford in the category of pass "We played like that in high school. There defense. Dead last. weren't many teams that threw the ball. We ran 
Only three are worse in total defense and only six the ball all the time. All the time. On third-and­are worse in points allowed per game. long, we ran the ball." 
The Cardinal are coming off a game in which Of course, just knowing a team is going to run the they gave up 63 points and 664 yards of total ball is no guarantee of success in stopping its offnse. offense (see Nebraska), but it certainly rnakf1S 
They have 1-3 record, have surrendered 40.8 preparation easier. points per game and are a painfully young and Granted, Stanford hasn't exactly been stout inexperienced group. against the run -the Cardinal am ranked H9th 
And yet: Look out Notre Dame. nationally, allowing 200.5 yards per game -but 
One week after getting thrashed in Oregon's much of the trouble has stommed from toams hav­rinse cycle, Stanford heads for ing balanced attacks and bPing the hallowed turf of Notre Dame quicker than the Cardinal. Stadium -the last place you That shouldn't bo an issue would think the Cardinal would 'THEY PRETTY MUCH against the Irish. The Cardinal want to wander. rep11atedly have been hammered
GOT THEIR BUTTS 

But that's not the case. The by big plays, but that's not the way reality is the 23rd-ranked Irish KICKED' Notre Dame wins. are just the kind of team that "We still have to exeeuto, but the 
Stanford carr hang with. STANFORD DEFENSIVE kids will feel a lot better bncaus1~ Unlike teams such as Oregon or they should have their assign­Arizona, the Irish don't have COORDINATOR BILL HARRIS ments down pat," said Harris, who 
overwhelming team speed on ABOUT THE NOTRE DAME-added the team will spend 15 min­ofTense and they generally can't MICHIGAN STATE GAME utes at the start of each practice hurt you in a variety of ways. this week focusing speeilically on 
They don't typically explode in its scheme against the option. bursts, but rather grind away at opponents. "I think it gives us a bettor shot "Notre Dame is only averaging 10 catches a of winning. With Notre Dame, you can eoncern game, and you've gotta feel good about that," said yourself (mainly) with the run." Stanford defensive coordinator Bill Harris. As to the concern that the Irish might chango With the Irish, you pretty much know they're their tune in light of the Cardinal's woeful pass gonna run. They'll pass a bit, but mostly they'll defense, Harris didn't sound worried. 
run. He said Notre Dame stuck with its usual game And history indicates this kind of Midwestern plan in a season-opening 36-20 victory over then­approach is something the Cardinal can deal with. No. 5 Michigan, but then got more pass-happy in a Last year, though Notre Dame was struggling 45-23 loss the following week at Michigan State. badly at the time, Stanford stuffed the Irish, 33-15, "They pretty much got their butts kicked," I farris dominating in all ways. said of the Irish's loss to the Spartans. "I think they 
And in the 1996 Sun Bowl, the Cardinal pounded learned their lesson about trying to deviate from Michigan State, 38-0, in a game that, hindsight, their game plan." 
RECORD: 2-1 RECORD: 1-3 
A.P. NATIONAL RANKING: 23RD A.P NATIONAL RANKING:
u 

UN RANKED 
linebackers .. NO 

The Cardinal always manage to be strong under center, and this year Kory Minor will be back at the drop linebacker slot and is due for a big 
is no different. Junior Todd Husak leads the ninth best passing offense game. Howard and Friday have been solid but need to make some hits. 
in the land. racking up over 297 yards acontest. He doesn't put it up for Anthony Denman will probably see the field more this weekend as Davie 
grabs either. with just three picks in 167 attempts. Jackson took a big looks for playmakers. Stanford inside linebackers Marc Stockbauer and 
step last week with his third and fourth-down passing and completing Sharcus Steen haven't been much to write home about. They've made 
over half his passes for nearly 200 yards. Hopefully, he'll take another tackles, but only have six tackles and one sack between them. 
step this weekend. 

Running Backs -NO !l~M-&D, 
Notre Dame's No. 2 all-time rusher will get the nod until the Irish play 
It's simple. Stanford's pass efficiency defense comes in with a175.9 the Detroit Lions. The only reason Darcey Levy hasn't seen the field rating, good for dead last in the nation. The Irish crack the top 100 with more is that Autry Denson refuses to leave it. Stanford's Coy Wire has their 147.8 rating (97th). But seriously, Brock Williams has moved ahead an odd name and his rushing high this year is 77 yards but has a brown of Ty Goode and flashed some skills. While Tony Driver stole the show belt in karate. Notre Dame will need to get fullbacks Jamie Spencer against Purdue, Deveron Harper played agreat second half. Davie will and Joey Goodspeed some carries to take the burden of No. 23. hope for more of that against yet another aerial assault. 
Receivers -Stanford Special Teams -Even 
If Troy Walters is fully recovered from asprained ankle it'll spell 
Sanson has missed just one field goal and was solid in the clutch last 
bad news for the Irish secondary. Walters accounted for 86 receptions week. Granted it was shorter than agimmie putt, but you can't tell me 
last year and has afine supporting cast in Dave Davis and DeRonnie that you didn't look say aprayer to Touchdown Jesus when he lined that 
Pitts. Malcolm Johnson and Co. are solid but not dynamic. Jabari up. Stanford's Kevin Miller also has game winner to his credit in their 
Holloway could cause fits for the Cardinal defense. win over North Carolina The return game certainly misses Allen Rossum
I 

as neither Driver or Levy have been able to provide aspark. If Walters is ~~!If /healthy he'll be dangerous. 
Offensive Line -NO 
Behind every good man is agood woman but in front of every great Davie needs to get his team prepared for the first half before he gets 
running back is agood offensive line. Consistency is the only problem the nod over any coach. Davie and his staff have been able to make 
with Notre Dame's line and Rosenthal, Wisne. and the boys need to adjustments and have strong finishes but the Irish won't be able to 
turn in a60 minute game. They still have the advantage over the come back every game. Tyrone Willingham has gone downhill after 
Cardinal who only rush for 104 yards agame, 86th in the nation. winning the Pac 10 Coach of the year in 1995. He only has two wins 
in his last 10 games but he'll have his squad ready to go tomorrow. 





Friday, October 2, 1998

page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
By M:SHANNON RYAN Driver chipped in on three lackles and Saint Mtu-y's Editor made a key fumble recovery, Which led to an Irish touchdown. 
_f\fter sWitching fr:om a life~itihg offen-The ,~xtweek, Drjver, ak!ng with th~. si~ career lastspxifig, Tony Driver is still rest ofthe Irish. became discombobu.l.tl.i'­flipping0through the ·dictiona;ry pages. of ed in tHeir 45~23 loss to the SpartanS'. defenstlli. ' Driver had been focusing his efforts on 
Saturday. however, Driver learned ,a "how I could step it up on spedill teams" 'jt new verb in the ftJteign la{I8Uage he is Iifthe entireMeekwfthe MSU ga.ffie. !;yen trying to m!ter: interception. ' ... ilkta ·hotf;ll in East La~. ~r"wflS 
l,yith con .. ent'play,ipg tim.£__in t~e 3!-""cdhfentfaJing on his role o!l kickoff 3tf'tom~ba?, ovet. ~rdue atidhis t~o 'te~~ns. •.· , . .. •:c. . . !JlmftWliiDflg grflb)i. the first 9f< Jus 'l}len when Guilbeaux \\t~t down With career a.tl:d of Notre, Pariie's ~~~~o:q, lJ;he . an mjur;y,_Davie said, Driver was "thrown' sophomol'e strong sltfety {elt a way he intfr1:he"Jleat oqp.e battle." 
" hadn't iq,f'ears. , . , "I wasn,~xpecting Benny to 19 down. . "It se~ like it wasJlle-firsJ time I've My mind'S'i\.·wrum't on playing·( lot of -ever, plafM in a batFlamel sinee my defense," Driver said. "On the cfefense --,~enior)~:J.~ of high school,"' Driv~ said. . sid~ of,~~~bi!ll. everY,~g ~as S~.J!{:?n­·~.p~yed fi;te \tll.. o.l~ game;) w.a.s.actuallyt:.. fusmg. ':J'got_out there 'and It was like ' .tiretr and JUS' t{ji-ng t¥make my wa~ ~ everythil).~,was moving ..so fast. I don't 

·· i'lfh~t was fun." 1'-· i· know if Lgot nervous ... but:,eve.tything w.1c:tug_1ug into' the secondary stemed So weirct UI1J1atural."' not b~en easy for ·So, "a lot ·. my minlt" 'bnver t>ft!';JJ.~"!!~Yl<""~~ spe~d picks~ up a took a one practice daf 
.:i:g off to · · Iamili<~.~ skills. so~'triueh my mom," Drivel" k.iiew because I drive 'to his of the b~.o~ he 
smatter "abo~W . 
tbink'Tct be,a . 
l: comfortAble time a1(1 am... ~ee. •··. _ 
._~ou get the ma.in dci~jt'snttt: .... fOo bafj_." ,~ ·· AlthQ\}gft SAturday's heroic 

,_ stflfed fiis flufJilcy, Dr_iyer's JJIIIIIQ;reJ:liJaVS:\~tllllm:l an;oppo~nt ~pping thro~ or''q-u,arterback Drew Brees:,,.,~ a 
sack. .. ···· · · . , • Th.tercepti<J:t,ls ..dQ a lot for [my cori~' ·· fid~.-.~8;at thaN:a. still a lot I need to get b'•r 'a"t," tW. 5\id. "It's easy when 
"· ..•~~ . e .~~t~~~~ll?;~ewhen

-:?" all the sluff going on, it"'loud ".'_flti•. h,.•,,>vn1 <>:$', can't b8f the calls and the · ' f down 79ur neck -there's a lot tt&1~:t' 
into col$ideration." 
After •an. the 6-foot-2, knows whohe-haS to'.nswer to makes a ~::himself. 

"Uke right riow, I can see the lnu:k.and l,tlligk. ·~.I .,..u,._._.__.., to hit hmC I think ofwhat I mel!!~. E\'en his+teami.ftates·· notice Dr:ivefS..'i'..lmbi drive. · . , •···•.· try•to put~ .,:; . "He llways wants b~tter from himselfoi"' ; possible a,p.d ~t 
·~d senior free safety A'Jap.i Sanders: :.; game/~· ·. . . "He's alyvays ready to raise:his level of Now as ·.a vital name on d;le ~ 'COlilpet1$m. Benny [Guilbeaux] and ·I Driver is:~ to jump start ~,'1fe~., kind of trled to mold him into the, way a , , unit aam!¢. a pass-o , . . . . . Stanfonf defensive back should be, a trained ;team Whife his fari\Qsl .·.. . om the ~-" ·.. -·first time from 'the stln:ds ot otte Dame 
So fat; the Irish are pleased wflh the Stadium.-· way' Dilver has been able to shoot down "I really want a solid game with no opponents. missed assignments, tackles all wrapped 
As a freshman, Driver tallied 243 yards up," he said. "If we played with Jp.Qr~ on 13 kickoff returns. Utiliz~g, rgos.tly).p. ~a.Jllla.U: ofour abilities in the first half. short-yardage and goal-line~ Situations,· we'd blast these teams away: I want that Driver also scored three touchdowns as quarterback to be scared to throw the the number three tailback. ball because he knows our defense is 
"Tony's a playmaker," head coach Bob everywhere." Davie said. "We've seen that since the The omnipresence Driver displayed day he stepped onto this campus. He just against the Boilermakers should be has the knack." enough to put a fright into the arm of 
His first Significant step came as a one-Cardinal quarterback Todd Husak. yard run against Michigan in '97, his first "The key is getting Tony comfortable as touchdown in an Irish uniform. a safety," Davie said. "I can tell you that 
"My favorite is the one against he has given this football team a tremen­Michigan," he said. "It's the one that dous spark that we can build from." sticks out, my first one. That's the only With Denson playing out his final year, one I can even remember from last year." questions emerge surrounding the future 
The touchdown against Boston College of Driver's position. But both coach and in '97 would be his last as a tailback-at player affirm that whatever is best for least for now. the team is the best for Driver. 
Driver made the dramatic switch to the "We've got to spread out the talent," he secondary in mid-spring after Davie said. "If they can come ready to have a tabbed his physical style as more fitting good game, game after game, then I'm to defense. happy playing defense. I'm an athlete; I'd 
"The truth is Autry Denson is our tail-put on 30 pounds and become a line­back," Davie said. "I knew [Driver] need-backer if I had to. I'm not clued in to one ed to be on the field for us though. He position. loves being a contact player. H~ always "I want to be on the field. I don't want 
The Obaetver/John Dally goes full speed." to be on the sidelines watching someone Irish safety Tony Driver has accepted his new role on the other side of the ball and Establishing himself as the playmaker else run with the ball or make the play." begun to establish himself as a playmaker. on defense began in the first game of the That's the one language Driver could season. In the 36-20 win over Michigan, never learn. 
Friday, October 2, I998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 



Bob Davie CAREER RECORD 8-6 AGAINST MICHIGAN STATE 0-1 

ROSTER 

No. Name Poe. HI. WI. YR 1 Deke C"'P"' FS 6-3 
221 )R 

2 Bt.•nny Guilbl'dUX S.'i 6-2 215 SR AmaL BMtle QB 6-1 195 FR Kury Minor OLB 6-1 245 SR A'f,mi Sandt>rs FS 5-11 191 SR Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 215 SR J.uluu; Jackson QB 6-0 220 SR Eric Ch,>ppdl QB 6--4 225 )R Anthony Br.mnan OLB 5-11 203 IR R.lk1 Nelson FL 5-11 178 JR 
Ill lJt.•vt·ron Harper CB 5-11 187 JR 
11 J•'Y Juhn>on SE (,.() 187 )R 12 Tony l'i•h••r RB 6-1 202 FR 13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 236 SR 14 David Givt•ns WR 214
(,.() FR 15 Clifford Jdfcrson DB 5-9 165 FR 16 John Shingler TE 6-1 250 SR 17 Huntt•r Smith P 6-2 218 SR 18 Joey G<•ther.lll SE 5-7 172 so 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 189 JR 20 Carlos l~em~Antoine LB 6-2 240 FR 21 Javin Huntt•r WR 5-11 172 FR 22 Jay Vickers TB (,.() 215 )R 23 Au'try Denson TB 5-:10 202 SR 
24. TyGbud~ CB· 5-tl 192' SR 2S 'lhny Drivtr 'FS 6-2 214 so 26 l.t't! Lafayette SS 5-10 198 )R 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 232 SR 28 Donald Dykes DB 5-10 186 FR 28 Mike Grady FS 5-11 200 JR 29 Justin Smith CD 6-2 188 so 30 Rocky Boiman DB 6-3 222 FR 31 Darcey Levy RB 6-2 208 so 32 Trnance •Inward RB 6-1 181 RB 32 Ju•tin Mcko SS 5-11 209 SR 33 Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 245 SR 33 Phil Sicuso CB 5-11 188 SR 34 Ronnie Nicks ILB 6-1 234 )R 35 David Miller K-P 5-11 177 FR 35 Jascint Vukelich FB (,.() 224 so 36 Tom Lopicnski FB 6-2 240 FR 36 lim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR 37 Ron Israel CB (,.() 198 so 37 Kevin Riel' SS (,.() 212 SR 38 Brock WilliamB CB 5-10 189 so 39 Anthony Denman OLB 6-1 231 so 39 Chris Leek ss 5-10 195 )R 40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 254 so 40 Brendan Farrell lLB 5-10 220 )R 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 231 JR 42 Antwoi!l~ Welllngton NG 6-0 261 )R 
4.1 Hugh Hulrat&o ILB 6-1 212 so 44 Grant lmns _ OLB 6-5 256 so 4S joey Goodsp&;f FB (,.() 241 )R 46 Kevin Dansby OLB 6-1 228 so 46 Benjamin Robinson TE 6-2 241 SR 47 Mike McNair FB (,.() 221 FR 48 john.1than Hebert SE 5-11 202 JR 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 227 SR 50 David Payne OG 6-1 287 SR 51 lYn'O Harrison LB 6-2 238 FR 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 258 SR 54 Lukt.· Pt·titguut OT 6-6 300 SR 55 jimlonl'S OG 6-3 295 JR 58 Bn•ndan O'Connor OC 6-2 292 )R 62 CaSl'Y Rubin OT 6-6 300 so 1>.1 Mike Tribe lLB 5-10 220 JR 64 john Merandi C 6-3 292 JR 66 JW jordan C (,.() 289 so 67 john Wagn<•r OT 6-7 300 SR 6R Matt Bn•nn.m OT 6-7 295 JR 69 Mikl• Gandy OG 6--4 296 JR 70 lim Ridder OG 6-7 298 SR 71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-7 298 SR 72 Ryan Scarola OL 6--4 310 FR 73 jeff Rot•hl OL 6-4 287 FR 74 RobMowl C 6·5 295 JR 76 John Teasdale OT 6-5 295 so 77 Brad Williams DE 6-5 286 JR 78 Jordan Black OL 6-5 310 FR 79 Mikl· Ro&cnthal OT 6-7 300 SR HI l..t..>Wis Dawsnn Fl. 6-0 185 JR 83 Patrick Reynolds WR 5-11 179 FR !!4 Gerald Morgan TE 6-3 263 FR 85 Antwon jones NG 6-3 280 SR 85 Mark Rule WR 6-2 218 SR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-5 256 )R 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-3 254 so 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-3 194 SR 89 john Day-Owens TE 6-3 228 FR IJO Lance Ll-grt'C NG 6-1 292 JR 91 Noah VanHook·DruckerDE 6-2 245 JR 92 Adam libble K 5-11 183 FR 93 BJ Scott DE 6--4 282 )R 94 Andy Wisne NG 6-3 285 so 95 Ryan Roberts LB 6-1 235 FR 96 Sean Mahan DL 6-3 262 FR 97 Kurt Vollcrs DT 6-7 280 so 98 Anthony Weaver DL 6-3 249 FR 98 EricGiass DT 6--4 235 JR 99 jason Ching DE 6-3 280 JR 
IN THE 
SPOTLIGHT 

THE DEFENSIVE LINE 
The Observer/John Daily 
Brad Williams and his linemates will try to slow the Cardinal attack. 
Whose defensive line will step up and make a play? 
Davie probably won't blitz much more, so the boys up front will be on their own on the pass rush. 
If Grant Irons and Lamont Bryant aren't getting to the quarterback, they'll have to try to knock down some passes like they did in the second half of the Purdue game. 
Lance Legree was listed as doubtful earlier this week with a bum ankle, so Antwon Jones may be counted on to 
The Observer/John Daily Antwon Jones will need to pressure the quar­terback if NO is to have success. 
play some more downs. 
Stanford tackle Willie Howard is a big boy at 290 pounds but he hasn't been big enough to stop the run. The Cardinal, are 86th in the nation in that depart­ment. 
Riall Johnson has replaced last year's all-American Kailee Wong, admirably leading the team with sacks (three) and tackles for a loss (six). 
It will probably will be a high scoring affair as Stanford gives up 33.3 points a game and are ranked 94th in the country. 

No. 
2 3 4 5 6 7 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 17 
18 20 20 21 22 23 23 
24 
25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 
33 34 35 36 37 38 40 
40 
40 41 
42 
43 
44 
45 46 47 48 49 50 50 51 52 53 
54 
55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
91 92 93 
94 95 96 97 98 99 
4TH 

SEASON AT STANFORD 
Tyrone Willingham CAREER RECORD: 20-IS-1 AGAINST NO: 1-0 
ROSTER

II 
Have a nice day 
Name Donnie Spragan Caleb Bowman Ryan Wells Troy Walters Than Merrill Todd Husak PeteCilella juan-Carlos Lacey Mike BiSt>lli lim Smith joe Borchard Randy Fasani Tank Williams Kevin Miller Eddie Patterson Chijioke Asomugha Patrick Shinnefield )elf Allen Ted Nugent Eddie Gayles Coy Wire Sean Tolpinrud Scott Reilly jamien McCullum Emory Brock Aaron Focht 
Tim Bass 
Charley Dean Chris johnson Che Holloway Garry Cobb Casey Moore Chuck Berger Brian Allen jon Eide Maxwell Stevenson Brian Taylor Evan Herring Scott Giles Slap johnson john Daily Byron Glaspie Ruben Carter jason White Evan Kelty Simba Hodari 
Doug Brown 
Frank Primus Colin Branch Mark Sanders Mike Burke IM Aetcher Matt Friedricha Anthony Gabriel Shrcus Steen Chuks Amajor Cooper Blackhurst Paul Weinacht Dominic Brunetti John Sande Chris Eldridge ZackQuaccia Brad Selby jon Abendschein Andrew Kroeker Damian Tinsley Geoff Wilson Matt Motherway joe Fairchild Ben Garrison Greg Schindler Sam Benner Dorean Kass Dwight Slater Mike McLaughlin Jim Telesmanich Eric Heitmann Brian Donoghue Willie Howard Travis Pfeifer jeff Cronshgen jason Willock Dave Davis Steve Coughlin Matt Wright Russell Stewart Tom Kolich Tafiti Uso Ryan Fernandez Rossi jones OeRonnie Pitts Mark Stockbauer Adam Scholze Marcus Hoover Trey Freeman Austin Lee Brian Toner Eric Toner Riall Johnson Matt Leonard Andrew Currie 
Pos 
OLB WR WR FL 
ss 
QB RB Rll I'K 
ss 
QB QB CD 1'/l'K 
FS 
CB PK FL RD 
RB RD 
P 
PK 
FS 
FB 
ss 
ss 
FS 
CB FS CD FB lLB RB RB 
FB CB CB OLB 
LB SB 
FB 
CB CB WR 
FS FB 
CB CB CB lLB 
rs 
ILB OLB ILB ILD lLB OT 11.8 OLD OLD 
c 
OT OG OG OT OT OG OG OT OT DE DT OT 
c 
DE OT OT DT NT OT WR WR TE TE TE TE WR WR 
FL 
WR lLB DE DE DT DE OLB NT DE DT NT HI 6-4 6-2 6-1 5-H 6-1 6-3 
b-6 
5-10 5-10 6-4 
6--4 
6--4 
0-4 Ml 5-111 5-11 
6-0 
6--4 
6-2 5-8 (,.() 6-2 5-10 6-0 5-11 5-10 5-11 5-11 5-11 Ml Ml 6-3 6-2 
5-10 
5-6 5-11 6-0 5-10 
6--4 
6-3 6-5 6-1 5-8 6-0 Ml 6-1 Ml 5-11 6-0 5-11 6-1 
(,.() 6-3 6-1 Ml 
6--4 
6-5 6-1 5-10 6-2 
6--4 
6-5 
6--4 
6-4 
6--4 6-7 6-3 6-6 
6-8 
6-6 6-5 6-3 
6--4 6--4 
6-2 6-5 6-6 6-4 
6--4 
6-7 6-3 6-1 6-3 6-5 6-5 6-6 6-0 5-11 Ml 5-11 6-3 
6--4 
6--4 
6-3 6-6 6-2 6-5 6-3 
6--4 
6--4 
Wt 240 175 185 170 220 211l 2S5 !YS 175 2.10 195 235 
205 
210 
200 
1H5 
2110 
210 209 1911 215 19() 210 19() 215 190 195 188 IRS 190 175 220 225 190 190 242 180 180 210 200 205 238 170 177 IRO 195 215 190 
185 
170 220 
230 230 235 230 230 
280 
220 220 230 
285 
285 290 300 
285 3!Ml 280 300 275 300 270 270 280 3!!5 255 285 295 290 
265 
31Xl 190 !HO 255 2.'i!l 245 240 190 170 185 195 235 220 260 312 260 240 270 240 290 270 YR SR FR FR SR JR JR SR JR 
so 
SR 
so 
so 
FR SR JR FR 
SR SR so so so so 
)R 
so 
JR 
JR SR 
JR SR JR 
FR 
FR FR 
FR 
JR SR FR SR 
FR FR 
JR JR 
so 
FR FR 
so 
SR SR 
FR 
JR 
so 
so so 
SR JR 
FR 
FR JR JR 
FR 
so 
FR 
JR SR 
so 
SR SR 
SR 
so 
FR JR JR FR SR JR FR SR JR so 
SR JR SO JR 
so 
JR 
FR 
so 
FR IR 
JR SR 
FR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR 
so JR FR SR 

-

The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 2, 1998 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Exhibition over for talented, inconsistent team 

-
ALLISON KRILLA Associate Spons Editor 

It's true. Bob Davie said so himself. The exhibition season must end at some point. 
That time is now. 

Staring their fourth game in the face, the Irish have come to the crossroads. Notre Dame must decide between two options: remain content with play that resembles the line on Clinton's polygraph test, or use each game as a building block in the tower of consistency. 
It's not enough anymore to show flash­es of brilliance periodically dispersed in a dense fog. The secret is out -this football team has talent. 
On offense, there's Autry Denson. The quintessential college running back stands 622 yards from Irish immortality. Poised to overtake Allen Pinkett as Notre Dame's all-time rushing leader, Denson makes things happen every time he touches the football. In four years, the 5­foot-10 tailback has accumulated 100 or more yards on the ground 20 times. What, dare you ask, is Notre Dame's record in those 20 games? A gaudy 15 wins and five losses. This year alone the Irish boast an undefeated mark when Denson gained more than 100 yards. 
"He's like a balloon that the air comes out of," said Davie of his senior tailback. "He's not a guy that just hits it north and south. He's a guy that really picks holes, and that's why he's good at running those drives." 
As a compliment to the running game, rising star Jabari Holloway shines as a receiving tight end. Maybe the sopho-
IRISH INSIDER EDITOR; KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: JOEY CAVATO, ALLISON KRILLA 

guy with a knack for mak­
ASSISTANT EDITORS: ANTHONY BIANCO, BILL HART 

ing plays. Fellow safety 
DESIGN: MARK DEBOY 

Deke Cooper proved his 
GRAPHICS: PETE CILELLA 

worth when N Jani
COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAILY 

Sanders went down with 

more still needs work on his blocking, but Holloway is a go-to guy. In pressure situations, Holloway seems to rise to the occasion. Take last weekend's game against Purdue, for example. Jarious Jackson found the 6-foot-3, 255-pounder when the Irish desperately needed a lift. And Holloway's catch just happened to be Jackson's longest yet. 
"I think [Holloway] has a chance to be a big-time tight end," said Davie. "It's fun to watch him get his hands on the ball ... He has a knack for making plays." 
But I guess it's not really fair to talk about the talent on offense. There's no dispute that an average of 30 points per game ranks somewhere between good and very good -except when your defense allows almost 32 points per game. But even the suspect Irish defense has talent. 
Safety Tony Driver immediately comes to mind when discussing talented defen­sive players. How many converted tail­backs can come up with two larger-than­life interceptions that change the out­come of a single game? Driver did. With Purdue quarterback Drew Brees cruising along, Driver proceeded to let the gas out of the Boilermakers' tank, and seal victory number two for the Irish. All this in Driver's first starting role, and amid an off-week trip to Kentucky to sort out his feelings. 
Even as a sophomore, Driver's play has made an impression on Davie that lends itself to inter-class comparisons. 
"[Holloway] obviously reminds me of a different position and everything. He's kind of a Tony Driver," said Davie. "Tony 
Driver on defense has a 
~.ack for making plays 
But Driver's not the only 

om1no s 2l1·0300 
(Memorize this number-Its half Your gradesJ 
Student Specials 
Larse 1ToPPins 
14•• 
$6.45 
an ankle injury early in the season. 
Cooper's heroics in a less-than-memo­rable Michigan State game showed just what competitive spirit the junior brings to the table. Cooper seems to be in the right place at the right time, and that's just about everywhere. The junior's 11 tackles against Purdue once again led the Irish. 
And the Notre Dame talent pool runs 
• 

deeper still. With Bobbie Howard, Kory Minor and Lamont Bryant ready to break out and Mike Rosenthal and Jerry Wisne protecting the sometimes fearless Jackson, the Irish are not scraping the bottom of the barrel. Not even close to it. 
Yes, it's true, the exhibition season is over, and the secret is out. This team has talent. And talent is a terrible thing to waste. 
Extra Larse 1TOPPinS 16•• 
$7.45 
only valid @ above location • across from Linebacker 
GO IRISH •• CRUSH THE CARDINAL 
-

---~-----------------------­
Friday, October 2, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page;: 7. 
THE IRISH INSIDER LOOKS AT
EYE ON 
THIS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
THE NATION 
FOOTBALL GAMES 
Big Ten clash highlights weekend 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
Thosn two Big Ton rivals meet for thn third straight season with both toams bning undefeated Saturday in Columbus. Penn Statn won last yoar's gamo 31-27 bnhind current Chicago Bear's rookie Curtis Enis' 211 yards rushing while Ohio State won in 1996 on their way to the Hose Bowl. 
IL-; benn quitn a year for Joe Paterno and his Nittany Lions. l'atorno, be<:ame only the sixth eoach in history with :~oo wins in the socond game of the season against Bowling Green. The dPfnnso has lnd tho charge for l'nnn StaW. allowing only 22 points in the threA victories along with only two touchdowns, both rushing. Quarterback Kevin Thompson leads a solid but unspnetacular ofiimsn. Bunning backs Cordnll Mitchell and Mike Cerimnle have combinnd for six rushing touchdowns. 
Top-ranked Ohio State has not missnd a step thus far this sea­SOIL They possess the most bal­anced oll"ense in the country while their def<msA allows only 
10.3 poinL'i per game, led by middle linebacker Andy Katzen moyer. 
Underratnd tailback Michael Wiley has quietly turnod in a .-;uperb season. lie leads the Big Ten in rushing with 166.7 yards per game and is coming off a career high 21 0-yard, two­touchdown performance against Missouri. Joe Germaine has b•~en flawless thus far, with five touchdown passes with no inter­ceptions. I lis two main threats­mceivers David Boston and Dee Miller -are the best duo in the country. 
This game will have a major impact on not only the Big Ten championship, but the national title hunt as well. Both teams rely on running the football and strong defensive play, but Ohio 

TEAM 
1. Ohio St. (58) 2. Nebraska (7) 3. Tennessee (2) 4. UCLA (1) 
5. 
Kansas St. (2) 

6. 
LSU 

7. 
Penn St. 

8. 
Florida 

9. 
Florida St. 

10. 
Virginia 

11. 
Syracuse 

12. 
Georgia 

13. 
Wisconsin 

14. 
Arizona 

15. 
Colorado 

16. 
West Virginia 

17. 
Oregon 

18. 
Texas A&M 

19. 
Virginia Tech 

20. 
Washington 

21. 
usc 

22. 
Arkansas 

23. 
Notre Dame 


23. Missouri 
25. Michigan 
The Obserrver/Brandon Candura 

LSU's Kevin Faulk leads his sixth-ranked Tigers against the Georgia Bulldogs in a pivotal SEC battle at Tiger 
Stadium under the lights. 
State has superior talent and the home-field advantage, which should play a major role. 

Another conference rivalry between undefeated schools takes place in Tiger Stadium on Saturday night. Georgia and LSU are two of the SEC favorites again this year and feature two of the top 10 passing efficiency leaders in the country in Quincy Carter and Herb Tyler. 
Carter, a 21-year-old fresh­man, leads the Georgia offense, after playing in the Chicago Cubs minor league affiliate in Rockford for the past two years. 
RECORD POINTS 3-0 1,737 4-0 1,660 3-0 1,544 2-0 1,538 4-0 1,503 3-0 1,395 3-0 1,293 3-1 1,275 3-1 1,151 4-0 1,069 2-1 1,050 
3-0 971 
4-0 885 
4-0 823 
4-0 701 
2-1 626 
4-0 613 
3-1 570 
4-0 531 
2-1 492 
3-1 294 
3-0 226 
2-1 218 
2-1 218 
2-2 64 

He is currently rated ninth in passing efficiency with four touchdowns and a single inter­ception. The Bulldogs running game has been solid, averaging close to five yards per rush, while utilizing seven different backs. They have been nearly unstoppable inside the 20-yard line, converting on nine of 10 chances with eight touchdowns. 
Georgia's defense is currently the top-rated defense in college football, allowing only 15 points all season. Cornerback Champ Bailey may be the best corner in the country; he also plays some split end, where he has scored two touchdowns thus far this season. 
The Tigers bring a perfect 3-0 record into Saturday, including an SEC victory over Auburn. Tyler leads a well-balanced offensive attack, which has scored 42 points per game and averages 222 yards rushing and 217 yards passing. 
LSU may have the best run­ning back combination in the country in Kevin Faulk and Rondell Mealey. Faulk is an experienced star who needs 353 yards to become the all-time leader in all-purpose yardage in SEC history to pass 1982 
Heisman  trophy  winner  
Herschel  Walker.  Mealey  has  
averaged  5.6 yards  per  carry  

and could be the feature back in most other offenses. Receiver Abram Booty leads the team in receptions with 17 and also has two touchdowns on the season. 
Tiger Stadium was recently rated the toughest stadium to play by Sport magazine and should prove to be a major advantage for LSU. Georgia has been one of the hottest teams in the country so far and will be more than ready to play come Saturday. 
~s. 
Washingto'.t does not get much of a break r..)ffiing off their 55-7 defeat to Nebraska, as they play host to red-hot Arizona in Husky 
Stadium on Saturday. The Huskies were thoroughly embar­rassed against Nebraska, yield­ing 434 rushing yards against the famed Power-1 attack. 
The defense struggled mightily against the run, but the offense also had trouble. Washington has been unable to establish any running game at all, averaging 
103.3 yards per game, and even talented quarterback Brock Huard has had a sub-par sea­son. 
A year after passing for 2140 yards and 23 touchdowns, Huard has six touchdowns and four interceptions thus far with many new faces at the skill posi­tions. A pleasant surprise for the Huskies has been H-back Dane Looker who had a school-record 11 catches against Arizona State in the season opener to go along with seven receptions last week. 
Arizona, a team that has won eight straight games dating back to last year, looks to continue its solid play. Keith Smith and Ortege Jenkins have split the duties at quarterback, with Smith ranking sixth in the nation in passing efficiency while throwing for six touchdowns and two interceptions. 
They have two superb receivers in speedy Dennis Northcutt and highly regarded NFL prospect Jeremy McDaniel. The duo has combined for 45 receptions and seven touch­downs. The "Desert Swarm," an aggressive style of defense, has proven once again to be among the nation's elite, yielding just 
11.8 points per game, which is good enough for 13th in the country. 
Both Arizona and Washington are legitimate top 25 teams, but so far neither has gotten much coverage as a force on the national scene. This all could change on Saturday, especially for Arizona, who should be able to score against the Huskies defense. Another interesting development will be the ability of Huard to bounce back after con­secutive tough outings. If the Huskies are able to run the ball to complement Huard, he should have a great game and show that last year was no fluke. 


-
--· ~ ·~----------·----~ 
Friday October 2, 1998

page 8 The Observer ·IRISH INSIDER 


' 
THE FI.GHTI.NG lR.ISH OF NOTRE 
:DAME 
vs. 

T"HE CARDINAL OF STANFORD 
OCTOBER 3, 1998 
1:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME STADIUM NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 





