~--------------­
-------------------~--------­
• Columnist Kevin Patrick gives his slant on 
• Tired of the Clinton scandal? Movie Scene's 
Monday
this weekend's 31-30 victory over Purdue in 
video pick, "All the President's Men" takes you back 

Viewpoint. 
to the last time impeachment was a possibility. 

SEPTEMBER 
Viewpoint • 9 
Scene ·11 

28, 1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXII NO. 24 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 




PSA lobbies for nondiscrimination changes 



By lAURA ROMPF 
Nl'w~WiirL'I 
NotrP llanw has publislwd a nPW handbook railed "Studtmts With llisahililiPs: Building a l'artnl'rship in !·:qual AtTnss to l.narning." 
"This handbook is dt•sigrwd to providP you with inf(mnation on how studPnts 
Notn~ Danw available to all qualified studnnts. It is a place wlwre studnnts with disabilities have access to the same oppor­tunities and !'ace the same intel­lectual challenges as all otlwr students," Malloy added. 
Tlw handbook ineludes a gen­eral ovorvinw and description of Notre Damn's Ol'lice for Studnnts 
w i t h 
art• assistPd 
Disabilities at Not 1'1' and tlw ser­llamP, vices that it through a ol'fers. It also Lhrl'n-part has an exten­
partrwrship: sive resource tlw !'acuity, . section that tlw Of'lkn l'or provides infor­StudPnts with mation and Il isa hi I i t i ~~ s suggestions for and tlw stu­assisting stu­dPnts with a dents with a disability," variety of dis­statPd a lt~ttnr abilities. writt«m to !'ac­Specific 
uity by 
Barbara Walvoord. dirnctor at 
th1~ Karwb Cnntl'r. Scott !lowland. Program Coordinator at thn Oflkn for Stud1mts with l>isabilitins and .lonllnn Conrardy. Program Coordinator atthn Karwb Cnnll~r. 
"Throughout our history, Notrn llame has thrivml as an mlucational environnwnt when~ studnnts n~ceivn carnl'ul attnn­tion and nurturing. Our commu­nity takns grnat pridP in warmly nmbmdng its nnw nwmbm·s and atwnding to their nnt~d -mind. body, and spirit," said Father Edward Malloy, president of the Univnrsity. 
"In keeping with this tradition, we have long sought to make 
strategies are given l'or support and instruc­tion of studnnts dealing with visual and hearing impairments, limitations of mobility and dex­terity. speech impairments, attention deficit disorder and leaming disabilities. 
"As with all of our students, we strive to offer students with disabilities equal access to opportunitills for intellectual, spiritual. and personal growth at Notre Damn." said Patricia O'llara, Vice President of Student All'airs. 
"I believe that this handbook serves as an important resource for our efforts to work in part­nership with students with dis­abilities," O'Hara concluded. 
By TIM LOGAN Assistant News Editor 
The Progressive Student Alliance kicked off a signature drive on Friday to demonstrate student support for the addition of sexual orientation to the University's nondiscrimination clause. 
Nearly 400 students signed the petition, which was avail­able on Friday in the dining halls and LaFortune student eentf)r. 
The signaturn driw~ is intend­ed to put pressure on the Academic Council's Executive Committee, which is meeting today to discuss the addition of sexual orientation to the University's nondiscrimination elause. The Committen will decide the agenda today for the Oct. 8 Academic Council meet­ing. 
If the Council supports the addition to the nondiscrimina­tion clause, the issue will be sent to the Board of Trusteos for final approval. That would be the most powerful oflice in the University administration to which the issue has risen. 
Between today and Oct. 8, the PSA plans to continue gathering student support for the addition, according to president Aaron KrHider. The organization, along with several other groups, intends to continue its signature drive and has tentative plans for a rally to demonstrate backing for the issue. 
"This is a good start," said Kmider. "We're well on our way towards showing significant stu­dent support." 
The Council is comprised of administrators and leaders of the four colleges and the archi­tecture school. It also has one student representative, Frank Law, the Academic Delegate in the Oflice of the President. 
"[The Academic Council! over­sees everything that governs how a student can go through [Notre Dame! and how a faculty member can teach," said Law in describing the body to student senators. 
If the addition is supported at today's meeting, it would most likely be approved. predicted Law. If it is rnjected, however. the issue can still be placed on the Council's agenda by the Faculty Senate, which has the "right of agenda" to assign issues to tho body. But. the road would likely be easier if the Executive Comrnittnc approves the addition. 
"If it comes out positively through the committee, then I would expect the Academic Council to pass it," he said. 
The Executive Committee is chaired by University President Father Edward Malloy and has 10 other members. 
Last May, the faculty senatn unanimously approved the reso­luton supported the addition of sexual orientation in the nondis­crimination dause. 

Students take part in bilingual Mass yesterday at SMC as part of Spanish Heritage Month. Organizers hope to establish a regular Spanish Mass similar to the program at Notre Dame. 
SMC celebrates bilingual Mass 
By NORA KULWICKI News Writer 
Hocio Hod riguoz calls God by a different name than many of her Saint Mary's and Notre Dame peers. 
"My God is Dios; when I hear Dios, I hear my God. It's the same thing las the English word] but l feel closer to I lim when I say Dios," said Hodriguez, president of La Fuerza. 
This expression of spiritual culture was celebrated on Sunday at Saint Mary's with a bilingual (Spanish and English) mass. The mass was organized as part of activities surrounding Spanish Heritage Month by the Office of Muticultmal Affairs and by La Fuerza. 

The bilingual mass has ignited discussion about its importance among both Latina and non-Latina women. 
"It is more important for people who are not Latina to go [so as tol learn about another culture," said sopho­more Kathy Fech. "It might feel a little awkward but we would grow... By getting to know another culture !we would I gain a bnttl~r scnsn of college unity." 
Maria Oropeza. dirnctor of Multicultural Affairs, also stressed the importanee of learning about another cul­ture through the worship of God. 
"This is something more than just a Latino mass. It recognizes that we arc all called [together! in commu­nion and fellowship," Oropeza said. "God made us different and those differences should be celebrated." 
Along with the sharing of cultmes, a sense of belonging is also vital, especially to 
see MASS I page 4 

~~p~ag~e~2~========================~~~~~~~~~T~h~e~O~bs~e~rv~e~r~·~I~~S~I~[)~E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M~o~n~d~a~~~S~e~pt~e~m~b~er~2~8~,~1~9~98 
f 
t 
! f ~ 
•INSIOE COLUMN 
Stalkers 
Someone is out to get me. 
Now I don't normally consider myself para­noid, but several events have led me to believe someone is out to deluge my person with annoyance. On-attributed-------­flowers, weird phone calls, missing items, shad­ows in the night: My life is turning into a bad rerun of a USA Network TV · drama. 
La Femme MacKenzie. 
Dateline: Valentine's Day, 1997. This is the Heather 
MacKenzie day that usually lends us Assisram Managing marginally-cute-but-oth-Editor erwise-unremarkable young women to dress entirely in black, lock our doors and close our blinds to the sicken­ingly euphoric love-stricken air outside. But this day was different. This was the day I got flowers. 
They were beautiful, those flowers; red and yellow, with ribbons spilling down the side of the vase. It was enough to make me believe in love again. 
Until! read the card. "Love, your left-handed secret admirer from Carroll Hall." Now, no normal girl minds having a secret admirer, especially on V-day. But the notes continued well past the holiday, culminating in a grisly discovery in my mailbox: My admirer had sin­isterly ripped off the cover of a textbook from a class we apparently had together and written his love letter on the back of it. Now, I'm sure this dude was trying to be charming, but dese­crating a German foreign policy book, however much it deserved it, was not the way to cap­ture my heart. 
So after a few weeks of avoiding dark places and screening my phone calls, I finally let my paranoid mind rest at ease: apparently my stalker had found newer, more receptive flesh to send bookcovers to. But events in the last week have reincarnated my paranoia. 
Imagine my surprise to find that someone had figured out my voice mail password and changed my message. Instead of my chipper voice informing callers that "Heather and Diane are not here to answer your call," there was an evil voice screaming, "Learning to read was fun and exciting until I read AYN RAND'S ATLAS SHRUGGED!!! THAT PILE OF ..." 
Well, you get my drift. I had a lot of explain­ing to do to the Stanford Office of Graduate Admissions who had called expecting to hear my sweet voice and had instead been greeted by schizophrenic man telling them his not-so­positive view on Objectivism. Ijust hope they weren't Rand-oids. 
But it doesn't stop there. Shortly afterward, I threw my ID on my desk. After leaving the room to take care of some personal business, it was gone. Then, I found a page cut out of a magazine stuck to my door. The words? 'Heather Does Heroin' in screaming red letters. 
They're trying to implicate me. They have my voice mail passeode, my 10, my reputation. 
And the University knows about it. You know that email we got the other day warning us to change our passcodes from our boyfriends' middle name to something even God couldn't remember? I know. I know, everyone got the email. But don't you see? It was aimed at me: They just didn't want me to freak out, so they made it seem like everyone is in danger. 
I did find my ID the other day: It was hiding under my Peace Corps application. And the voice-mail hacker was my next-door neighbor. who figured out I had used the same passcode from last year. But I sort of like the conspiracy theory that I've developed; it adds spice to the boredom of the days between games. 
Maybe being stalked isn't so bad after all. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Bill U niowski  Mike Varegas  
Noreen Gillespie  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Jenny Schaaf  
Sports  Production  
Bill Han  M. Shannon Ryan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Spencer Stefko  Dave Laheisr  

The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam ;md vacation periods. The Observer i~ a member of che Associated Press. All reproduction riglus are reserved. 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Bill will keep agents from approaching athletes on campus 

LANSING, Mich. 
Professional agents could have a tougher time approaching college athletes on their campuses, under two bills passed by a comfortable margin in the state House Thursday. 
One bill would allow colleges to order agents off campus if they are discovered trying to negotiate with athletes. If an agent were to return to campus after being ordered off onee, they could be arrested on tres­passing charges, under the second bill. 
Both bills were introduced by state Hep. Kirk Profit, D-Ypsilanti. He accused some agents of using uneth­ical tactics to get athletes to sign contracts. NCAA rules forbid players to interact with agents, but punish only students if interaction takes place. 
"Bad agents are putting coaches at risk, they're putting players at risk," Profit said. "Bad agents are sneak­ing into study halls and sneaking into dorms. They serve a legitimate role in the process, but there's a time and a place." 
The bills have gained momentum since the suspension of University of Miehigan football player Marcus Ray last week. Ray was suspended for associating with an agent. The inci­dent is under investigation. 
However, Profit said the bills passed Thursday were not a result of Ray's suspension. 
• UNIVERSITY OF SouTHERN fwRmA 
Hurricane forces evacuation 
TAMPA, Fla. 
All USF campuses were closed effective 6:30 a.m. Friday due to Hurricane Georges, after an announcement by President Betty Castor Thursday. All classes and events scheduled for the weekend have been canceled. Twelve USF buildings are designated as American Red Cross shel­ters. though none have opened yet. Hillsborough County's emergency operations team will meet at 6 a.m. Friday to assess the need for opening shelters. Even if the campus does not sustain a direct hit from Hurricane Georges, flooding may become a problem. Three USF buidlings flooded during Sunday's heavy rains, and with the possi­bility of 5 to 10 more inches of rain, more buildings could be waterlogged. Campus residents are being encouraged to leave, according to Tom Kane, director for Residence Services. Residents of the Village Housing complex could be moved to other residence halls, Kane said. Students have been encouraged to act with caution. 
• UN!VERS!TY Of RICHMOND Football player charged with assault 
RICHMOND, Va. 
A University of Richmond football player was arrested early Sunday morning and charged with misdemeanor assault and battery of his 19-year-old girlfriend. Sophomore Jonathan Malcolm Wilfong, 19, of Harrisonburg, Va., was arrested at 5:30 a.m. Sunday by Sgt. John Jacobs of the University of Richmond police department. Jacobs responded after police received a call that a man and woman were fighting, he wmte in a crimi­nal complaint filed in Richmond juvenile and domestic relations district court. According to the complaint, Wilfong was bleeding from his lower lip and the woman, Jenni Schultz, of Harrisonburg, Va., had bruises and scratches on her neck. both upper arms and right cheek. Schultz, Wilfong's girlfriend of three-and-a-half years, said she and Wilfong went to the University Forest Apartments after he returned from the football game in Rhode Island. 
"This has ber.n an issue for 10 years," he said. "But the value of that event has helped propel it." 
Profit said athletr,s can be some­what at fault when dealing with agents, but added punishments for the athletes are unfair when agents face no penalty. 
"This brings the agent or the booster into equal standing with the school. program and student," he said. 
The bills, which passed 60-32 and 66-24, were met with some opposi­tion by legislators who thought ath­letes from smaller schools could be punished. 
State Rep. Kwame Kilpatrick, D­Detroit, said he supported the inten­tion of the legislation but thought parts of it were unfair. 
"I thought it was overboard." said state Rep. Kwame Kilpatrick, Detroit. 
• YALE UNIVERSITY 
Police investigate violent party 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Yale police are continuing to investigate Marc Hoffmann and Adam Seidman for allegedly not cooperating with police at a party in the Davenport College Cottage on Sept. 
4. The police said Seidman pushed one officer and verbal­ly confronted another officer. But several students at the party said that when police arrived, an officer shoved and swore at Hoffman after Hoffman spoke to the crowd with a microphone. Because the incident is still under investi­gation, Acting Yale Police Chief James Perotti said he would not comment directly on the allegations of improp­er police conduct. He said the department has received no formal complaints about police behavior that night. One student at the party, Valerie Cadet, said, "[Hoffmann] was talking on the microphone when the cop shoved him." Cadet also said the officer "was not being professional. He was hurling insults." The insults included profanity, Cadet said. 
• UN!VERS!TV OF PENNSYLVANIA Racism plagues history department 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. 
While everyone in Penn's history department is talking about a black graduate student's 1997 racial discrimina­tion charges against a white professor, they certainly aren't talking to the press. Originally an American Civilization grad student, third-year grad student Kali Gross transferred into the history Department in 1996 after the University terminated the /\mCiv program. Because of department policy, she was forced to take History 700-a course designed to teach first-year grad­uate students how to do primary source researeh ­despite having already taken a similar course in the AmCiv department. In June 1997. Gross. who took History 700 with then-first-year Professor Margaret Jacob, filed racial discrimination charges against Jacob after she got a "B+" in the class. Jacob declined to comment. "[Gross] came and told me that she thought Jacob had given her a grade based not on the work she'd done." 

• SOUTH BEND WEAHlER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather(l!,l forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept.28. 
H L 
Monday (f 70 64 Tuesday 1!2 73 60 Wednesday d:::=1 83 62 Thursday 1!2 65 65 Friday Q, 68 63 
:;-,.}'/";} ·-··...,~/ ,......... 

Q_Q,~4.8Q~~u Showers T-storms Ram Ff~r;ies SiloW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Associated Press Graph1csNet  Albany 70 Atlanta 83 Boston 70 Baltimore 80 Chicago 76  58 70 68 66 56  Columbus 77 Dallas 92 Denver 87 Hartford 75 Indianapolis 76  58 73 48 62 57  Miami 92 Minneapolis 73 Nashville 86 Sacramento 69 Santa Fe 81  79 50 68 56 57  
---------­ ----­... --­ --­ --­ ----­ - 

Monday, September 28, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Women's studies lecture focuses on NAWCHE 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE 
Nrws Wrirrr 
Laura llaigwood, tho wonwn's studi<~S coordinator and prof'nssor of' l~nglish at Saint Mary's, lwst<~d a brown bag ndur.ational lncturn on Friday af'tnrnoon at llaggar. 
Tlw lopir of' disr.ussion was 
NJ\WCIII·:.  thn  National  
J\sso!'.iation  l'or  Womnn  in  
Catholic  lligh«~r  Hducation.  

l'ilyllis Kaminski and (;ail MPrHIPll shan~d tllnir pnrsonal 
oxporionc<l about the conven­tion on coeducat)onal and sin­gin sox institutions that was founded in 1 !)<)I by women at Boston Coll<1ge. 
Tlw conference presontod dialogue-based tracks to 50 diiToront institutions, nspeeial­ly Jesuits in connoction with Boston College. 01' the attend­ing mmnbPrs, 60 percent worn faculty, 25 porcont were administration, 10 porcont wore staff' and l'ive poreont worn stud<mts. 
Need Cash?? Earn $25.00 Today with this 
Ad.::: and a student I.D. 
~----------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per tnonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 I 0 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
Koynote speakers and panel discussions educated the audi­ence with res<~arch and work­shops. 
Gail Mendell offered many insights about hor visit to NAWCIIE. 
Mendell said one of her workshops helped her realize how women's studies have saved womon's colleges, given them a new sense of identity, direction and language. 
To know if women's studies is taken seriously within the institution, Mcndoll said to look at the funding of the major, the respect or the major and if it is dispersed throughout other study oppor­tunities in the college. 
She also said that a board outside the college would be advantageous to point out new ways to expand tho study pro­gram further. 
Mendell admitted that spiri­tuality is a difficult aspect to maintain in a college atmos­phere. 
"The margins of church must be sensitive to diverse expectations," said Mendell. "People are not always com­fortable with traditional faith life, all students must be con­sidered." 
Phylis Kaminski also attend­ed NAWCIIE and participated in a few other workshops. Kaminski's main objoctive was researching about a college's struggle without funds or fac­ulty. 

PEACE CORPS 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, September 17 
6:00p.m. -730 p.m. 

(800) 424-8580 
www.peacecorps.gov 
She said outside rnsourees arn necessary to help facili­tate a network to promote tho school. 
From tho administrative vinwpoint, certain voices do not como togethnr well. Kaminski statnd that in ordnr to mako a eollngn work, the administration and faculty must be more intentional in thoir efforts. The community makes campus life <:ome alive, so new ideas must be dis­played. 
In a basic Catholic institu­tion, identity should not bn basod on hierarchy. 
"You must find the insights into the spirit that animates us. Find out what you do and why you do it. Givn tho con­gregation a spirit of its own," Kaminksi said. 
Both wonHm learned what happens when feminism con­fronts Catholicism. Knowing the issues is half the battlo. "See how the college takes a stand and keep alive the free­dom of dialogue and expres­sion," said Kaminski. 
"Women's colleges are scru­tinized more," she said. "A community without back­ground on the issues is unac­ceptable." 
Sister Elena Malits, a partic­ipant at the lecture said, "There are no restrictions on anything from a toehnological point of view. Artieulate skills are needed to evaluate what authority says, what your own opinion is and what you think due to the implications of all communication. !low does it shape young people?" 


Come by our information session for a chance to 
•
w1n a new mountain bike 

T E C H N I C A L A N D E N G I N EE RI N G MONDAY, SEPTEMBEI 28 7 P.M. -9 P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
ROOM 230 
B u s 1 N E s s A N D 0 T H E 1 .M A J 0 1 s 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 7 P.M... 9 P.M. CENTER POR CONTINUING EDUCATION ROOM 206 
AND A CHANCE TO BE THE NEXT STAR AT TRILOGY 
Trilogy Is buildl.ng the next great softwue comp.ny. Our g<>il Is to 
become 1 U billion compi.I\Y before 2001. ~ • ruult of our growth 
.oQjectivt.$. the busi.neu opportunities for you are boundless. 
Dtpending on your interests, you an lead 1 business unit. pioneer a vertial indu.stry, spin off a subsidiuy, or t.uru:h 1 product line. At Trilogy, your optioN are unlimited. 
Come to our information aenion ud drop off a renme to register to win a new mountabl bike. 
TRILOGY 
6034 w. Couttyud Dt. 
Au.&t.in,.tx 787)0 
t 512.425.3400 I SU.70U900 
~ttilDgy.CQm 
frit.u .....'"" ......!WtJ a~p~o,... 
# 



~ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 28, 1998 

Mass 
continued from page I 
Latina students. The difference between the English and Spanish celebrations may cause some Latinos to feel spiritually disconnected. 
Circle K allows· 
students 
By KATI MILLER 
News Writer 
Service is an integral part of many Jives at Notre Dame: In fact, students desire to serve others has helped make Notre Dame's Circle K club the largest in the world, even though this is only its fourth year inoperation. 
Circle K is an international Kiwanis organization made of college students who service to their c Notre Dame's Circle :1< club had 13lmem· hers last year and performed 4,000 hours of service; the club expects an increase to around 200 members this year and plans to do about 1,500 hours of service each month . .. ".The Circle K club at. Notre Dame members with weekly s • opportunities in the South community. Circle K sponsors approximately 25 projects each week, including Boys and Girls Club, the Humane Society, the Center for the Homeless. Reins of Life, Headstart. the Juvenile Justice Center, Dismas House, nursing homes and many others. 
Each project has a commision­er who acL<; as a liason between the community organization and the Circle K dub. Some of the projects, sueh as Headstart, require students to organize crafts and games for the chil­dren they work with. Other pro· jects, like the Logan Center, focus more on building relation­ships and simply becoming tiiends with people in need. 
In addition to the weekly pro­jects. Circle K also participates in several larger p•·ojects through­out the year. The dub recently 
Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Genter Ticket llttice. MasterCard and VIsa orders cai/63J.812B 
"[The Spanish mass] brings Mexico back to me," Rodriguez said. Olt [reminds me of] being home. [It was a] hard transition. 
"It is important for us to have the ability to celebrate our cul­ture -the way we first learned to praise. [It is]like a first love." 
Aside from the language dif­ference, the Spanish mass also 
.. to serv 

joined in the annual Volunteer in the Preserve Day with their. Spic~r Lake Nature Reserve clean-up. Students spent two hours on Sun.• September 20 removing graffiti, weeding gar­dens and planting seeds. 
Matt Banach, the club presi­dent for this year, said that Circle K also plans to sponsor a campus wide service we opening up the. projects.so 
. the entire Notr(:l 
ings e .. . . dents sign up for the projects they want to participate in that week, and transportation to and from all projects is provided through esc vans. 
The club also enjoys social activities sueh as bowling. bar­
. becucs, and sporting events, giv­ing members a chance to relax and reward themselves for the work they do. 
Jordan Curnes, vice president of service for Circle K, says the dub lets members "escape from t11e bubble of Notre Dame" and provides students with a good perspective of the real world. 
Curnes feels that Circle K is unique because "it allows me at the end of the day to say 'Wow, I really made a difference, I really did something'-you can't real­ly say that about accounting homework." 
Wed., Oct. 7 
7:30p.m. 
Thurs., Oct. 8 
7:30p.m. 
Fri., Oct. 9 
7:30p.m. 
Sat., Oct. 10 
7:30p.m. 
Sun., Oct. 11 
2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
has a unique style of worship. 
The celebration incorporates song throughout the whole ser­vice while the music employs distinctive rythms. 
"[The music! is comforting. It has a different flavor," said Father Patrick Neary, Director of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame. 

Amoco will be interviewing on September 30 and October 1. 
We invite you to a reception for B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. Chemical Engineering and B.S. Mechanical Engineering students on 
Tuesday, September 29; 7 to 8:30 p.m. in Room 206 of the Center for Continuing Education Building. 
Refreshments will be provided. 
Earn one credit while learning in a city...continue the tradition 


The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past 
have included:  
Albany  New Orleans  
Atlanta  Memphis  
Brooklyn  Nashville  
Harlem  Seattle  
Baltimore  Phoenix  
Washington  Honolulu  
Los Angeles  and many more sites  

As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. There will be an information session on September 28th at 8:30 at the CSC 
• Not I but the city teaches. -Socrates I 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CONTACT the Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndcntrsc 
Application Deadline --Friday, November 6 
While Latinas can attend reg­ular Spanish services at Notre Dame, many people feel a semi­regular bilingual or Spanish mass at Saint Mary's would b<: beneficial to the entire eollege community. 
"It would be niee if we could help more of our students grow in their faith here," said 
Oropeza. Father Neary shared Oropeza's sentiments. "[It] brings together two cul­
)
tural experiences, [even! draw­ing in students who aren't Spanish," he said. "They take something from eaeh other. This enrichment adds to the color of college and faith life." 

~~--~------~~----------~--------------~------~-----------------------------~--------~~~----~----~ 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• GERMANY 
Monday, September 27, 1998 
• \IVORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
S. Korea exports cows to North 
SEOUL 
1\ South Korean civic group shipped I 04 milk mws to hungnr-stricken North Korea on Sunday. 1\ 3,000-ton freighter arrives in the North's Nampo port on Monday, said officials at tlw Ministry of Marine /\ffairs and Fislwrios. TlH~ r.ivic group lwutsaranghoi. nwaning an association for neighborly love, plans to sPnd t)(> mon• milk eows and 2:~ tons of stork fppd llPXt month. In Jurw. llyundai l'ourHlPr Chung Ju-yung gave North Korea :iOO cattlP as a gift during his visit to the North. South KorPa has given North Korea $:~!i2 million in food aid sincn the communist country turrwd to llw intPrnational communi­ty to fl'l'd its 22 million people in 199!i. North 1\:on•a has suffpr('(l din• food shortages after thr!'P years of disastrous W!'atlwr that aggra­vatl'd prohiPms rausPd by irwflkinnt eoopera­tivl' farming tPrhniquPs. 
Drought worsens in Cyprus 
Lf<:FK/\H/\ 
ThP sign on a hill overlooking tlw nearly empty rPservoir lwhind l.Pikara Dam warns: "Swimming is prohihitPd." That may be all that is funny about tlw seven~ water shortage gripping this island at tlw eastern end of tlw MPditPJTanean. Drought has parched Cyprus for threl' yPars. l(•aving vital governnwnt rnsPrvoirs at just f> percent of capacity and authoritiPs l'ac!'d with tht~ prospeet of water running out hy year's end without substantial rains. TIH· shortage was exacerhattHl by n~rord tPmpl'ratun~s in .July and 1\ugust. /\t orw point. tlw mercury hit II0 degrees, push­ing water consumption even high~w. Some farms art~ already deserted for a lack of water. Hain-fed res(~rvoirs, like the one lH'hind tlw Lelkara Dam near the southern port of Limassol, have btHH1 reduced to muddy puddles. 
Factions clash in Sri Lanka 
COLOMBO 
(;ovnrnnwnt solclinrs clashed with Tamil Tignr rdwls Sunday in a battle for a strategic highway in nortlwrn Sri Lanka. leaving at lnast 49 lighlPrs dPad, the military said. The dPad inrludP<l 40 n~bnls and nine soldiers in llw liPrrnst lighting in the past two months, thP military said. Tlwre was no immediate slalPmnnl by the guerrillas. The rebels attarknd soldinrs on dnfnnso !inns near l'aranthan. a town 17!i milns north of Colomho. tlw Sri Lankan capital. "/\t prnsnnt, troops an• in full t·ontrol of the situation and dParing opPrations arP in progress," said the military statPnu•nt. adding that a large num­lwr of n~bds also wm·e wounded. l'aranthan is rlosn to a 4!i-miln highway passing through rt'lwl-lwld territory that the military has been trying to 1:aptum for more than a year. 
would open a road link to Jal"f"na Peninsula, 

Dow 
AMEX: 639.99
}ONES 
-2.31 Nasdaq:
8028.77 
1743.29 +23.25 NYSE: 515.68 
~ 
-0.91 S&P 500: 1044.75 Composite
I I 
+2.03 Volume:
+26.78 805,700,000 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 
ntMI1ANY nrKrH 1K, (')tANCjr S CjA!N I'IUCJ 
lr.w4.•llcr' tiruup lllV -IJ..Ib ·O.IKH 40.25 t 'mnpaq l'umpull'r' U"l! +:UJK +1.00 :id.$0 ltkdi-Cnl.l Cu. KO -O.KK -U.SUU S6.1H75 l.IM~l' \ot.mhwtt.m L~tll -2.55 -I.IH75 -IS..i12.\ M.llll'lllll :-A AT ·0.62 .o.IK75 .!O.(Xl N.Jihm.,h.ml; l'urp +J.ol(l + 1.H7$U 56.00
"'B 
l.l!h:orp en +0.75 +0.7500 100..\0 1\,11\kl\llll'fl\:ol 1\AC +4.26 +2.5625 b2.6H7S lil•nrr;JI Elcl'lrlc tiE +1.61 +1.:025 83.0625 MicrullT\•Ch MV +t\.47 +2.62$0 3:·1.625 



ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BONN 
Gerhard Schroeder and his Social Democrats won national elections Sunday, ushering in tho first change of government Germany has seen after 16 years of conservative rule under Chancellor Helmut Kohl, the West's longest-serving leader. 
The new. 54-year·old chancellor will be tlul {irst of his generation. rooted in the leftist movements of the 1960s, to lead Europe's biggest nation. 
Thr·owing up his arms in a victory salute, Schroeder promised cheering supporters he would keep pledges to fight unemployment-this year's major campaign issue -as well as achieve long-awaited tax and economic reforms. 
"The Kohl Hra has come to an end," Schroeder proclaimed to the cheering party faithful. "Our task will be to thor­oughly modernize our country and to unblock tho backlog of reform." 
The defeated Kohl will be remem­bered best as the chancellor who uni­fied communist East Germany with the West in 1990, after the fall of the Berlin Wall. 
'THIS IS A HARD EVENING 
FOR ME, AND FOR US ALL •••• I WISH HERR SCHROEDER THE BFST OF LUCK 
AND A SUCCFSSA.JL TIME IN OFF1CE' 
liELMUTKOHL 
Schroeder, too, will have his shot at history as he oversees two monumen­tal changes next year: the govern­ment's return to Berlin, its prewar cap­ita!, and the switch from the trusted German mark to the Europtlan com­mon currency, the euro. 
Kohl. 68, looked tired and sad as he com:eded defeat. 
"This is a hard evening for me, and for us all," Kohl told his supporters. "... I wish Herr Schroeder the best of luck and a successful time in office." He also announced he would not run for re-election as chief of his party, likely making way for his protege, Wolfgang Schaeuble, to succeed him. 
Schroeder supporters streamed into the streets of' Bonn, holding balloons and chanting "Kohl must go!" Many voters have known no other chancellor but Kohl, and the prornis.e of change brought tears ofjoy at party h<~adquar­ters. 
"Finally. finally. I have rarely been so happy," said Uta Tiedtke, 51, dab­bing her eyes as she stood among the revelers. "My two children have never known anything other than Kohl. This means the end of stagnation." 
Big Easy braces for hurricane, floods 
110 mph, was expected to smash the 
Gulf Coast late Sunday or early 
NEW OHLEANS AssociATED PRESS 
Monday. Its course wobbled a bit The Big Easy was decidedly uneasy during the day, giving hope that a Sunday as New Orleans prepared for 
slight deviation to the east could its worst nightmare hurricane -a spare New Orleans the worst of the massive storm that could sit over­
devastation. head for days, driving Lake Intermittent downpours started Pontchartrain over its levees and 
Saturday night along the Gulf Coast submerging the city. 
and continued Sunday night. Waves 
"We're just waiting for the trigger crossed beachfront roads in to be pulled," said Lt. Col. Honnie Mississippi, including four-lane U.S. Jones of the Louisiana State Police. 90. Twenty-five-foot waves clipped 
Thousands didn't wait for off fishing piers along Alabama's 
Hurricane Georges to arrive. They coast. High surf on top of a 5-foot fled, turning Interstates 10 and 55 storm surge threatened to undermine into bumper-to-bumper processions. 
the foundations of beachfront homes More than 1.5 million people were on barrier islands along the Florida ordered or urged to leave New 
Panhandle. High winds knocked out Orleans and coastal areas and the 
power to at least 30,000 customers in city's streets were quiet and mostly the New Orleans area. empty. 
"I would be scared if I were in New The storm, with sustained wind of 
Orleans right now," said Joerg 
, .........., ....... ··::'···· ..... -")-~ ····· ­
~ 
Lehmann, 23, a German air force student at the Pensacola Naval Air Station. lie was among the last peo­ple leaving Florida's Perdido Key. 
More than 300 deaths had been blamed on the hurricane in the Caribbean. 
Forecasters said up to 25 inches of rain could fall on New Orleans, cou­pled with a storm surge that could drive millions of gallons of water up the Mississippi Hiver toward the city. 
In a city that averages 6 feel below sea level and bordered by swamps, tidal lakes and the Mississippi -the results could be catastrophic. 
Georges was the most serious storm to threaten New Orleans since 1969, when Camille slammed into the coast of Mississippi and Louisiana, causing flooding as far north as Virginia and West Virginia and killing 259 people. 

--~~~---~-~----------~-------­
-~ -~ 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 28, 1998 
• SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 
Johnson: sex-selection 

• •a moral question The Diversity Program of By MATTHEW SMITH of the tests regarding this The College ofBusiness Administration News Writer procedure were done on ani­mals, not humans, and this presents a lecture byLast week, a sex-selection could also provide different, procedure was announced unfavorable results. that has raised ethical ques-Data on the success of the tions from the public and has procedure has varied, but it received mixed reviews from seems to be at around 85 per­the scientific community. cent for a female baby and 65 Although similar procedures percent for a male. "If a cou­have been going on in under-pie who wants one sex gets ground labs the other, across the that couple country, the may put the Assistant to the President & latest data baby up for Assistant Director for Cross Cultural Ministry showing the 'IF A COUPLE WHO WANTS adoption, or procedure to ONE SEX GETS THE even have an be safe has abortion,"caused a OTHER, THAT COUPLE MAY J 0 h n s 0 n on number of PUT THE BABY UP FOR explains. "To mainstream ADOPTION, OR EVEN HAVE help select a clinics to balanced spring up AN ABORTION.' family, with Diversity at Notre Dan1e offering it. ALAN JOHNSON one girl and N o t r e BIOLOGIST one boy, the Dame biola­procedure A Can1pus Ministry Perspective gist Alan might not be Johnson has a good idea." been following the issue He sees a positive use for Date: Wednesday, September 30, 1998closely and seems to prefer it, however: "It's usefulness reserving judgement on the comes when trying to avoid issue until further research sex linked diseases that may Time: 4:00 -5:00pm can be done. be at risk for certain cou­"All evidence we have seen pies." Place: COBA 161 indicates that the procedure Because the procedure is safe." he said."But one seems safe, Johnson feels the doesn't know until we have issue is a moral one and • Refreshments will be served seen more long-term data. probably shouldn't be regu­The sample size of the test lated by the government. He was small, so one doesn't admits that "the people Chandra Johnson directs the African Spirituality Program, a know if a larger sample will should provide input," cross cultural initiative for African-American students whichshow more birth defects or regarding the new technolo­other problems." gy, and more research should she developed and implements on campus.He also points out that some be done. • •  
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS ETHICS BO\NEN Notre Dame Center for Ethics atrd Religious SRB Values in Business Students lor Responsible Business  



----~-----~~----.----------~~--------------~---------------~--~-~-------"'1 
Monday, September 28, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
--------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------~~-­

' • NEWS ANAlYSIS 
Johnson: sex-selection needs further research 
By MATTHEW SMITH 
News Writer 
l.ast wcnk, a sox-selection proendurn was announced that has raised cthkal questions from the public and has rncnived mixed reviews from the scientific community. 
Although similar procedures have been going on in under­ground labs across the country, the latest data showing the procedure to be safe has caused a number of main­stream clinics to spring up offering it. 
Notre Dame biologist Alan 
cent for a female baby and 65 percent for a male. "If a couple who wants one sex gets the other, that couple may put the baby up for adoption, or even have an abortion," Johnson explains. "To help select a balanced fami­
'IF A COUPLE WHO WANTS ly, with one girl 
ONE SEX GETS THE and one boy, the proeedureOTHER, THAT COUPLE MAY might not be a 
PUT THE BABY UP FOR good idea." lie sees a 
ADOPTION, OR EVEN HAVE 
positive use for 
Johnson has been following the issue closely and seems to pre­fer reserving judgement on the issue until further research ean be done. 
"All evidence we have seen 
In honor of Hispanic Heritage Month the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs presents: Elisa Maria Sanchez President and CEO of MANA "Rebuilding Latino Communities for the 21st Century" Monday, September 28th@ 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium Q & A and Reception to follow Sponsored by the OMSA and Saint Mary's Office of Multicultural Affairs  
ttT us! TAKf A 91ltAK wtcttts U1J SAN1) nite or wMat suh roll on your cnolce ol w Fres\\ly-made U1lSUIT ~1'/IA~V !~~at Nig\\t and more ~O and cness. MonoP , 1'1t£S (l{(offtt AND tS~ 11~ ~1 ;..;J~-~H~t~ cAI<.t(fcttt£st'1 pni\adelpnia smootn and cream Lower level -LaFortune Student Center  

indicates that the procedure is safe." he said."But one 
doesn't know 
until we have seen more 
I o n g -t e r m data. The sample size of the test was small, so one doesn't know if a larger sample will show more birth defects 
AN ABORTION." 
or other problems." 
He also points out that some of the tests regarding this pro­cedure were done on animals, not humans, and this could also provide different, unfavor­able results. 
Data on the success of the procedure has varied, but it seems to be at around 85 per-

By MICHAEL FLANNERY New:s .Wtiter 
.. :,if~~ Nanovic Institute for European Studies, an orga­nization that funds Notre Dame students researching in Europe and provides the campus with a lecture series, celebrated its fifth 
anniversary Sunday. 
Before 1993, the institute and its programs were Ideas in the heads of Professor Robert Wegs and some of his colleagues in the European Studies depart­ment. They had been dis· cussing the possibility of 
· establishing an organization capable of funding a series of guest speakers on European issues. 
While delivering lectures in Europe in the late 1980's, Wegs met Robert Nanovic, a 1954 Notre Dame graduate. 
.i!,}'Ve immediately became friends. Two years later he asked me if there was any­thing that needed support at Notre Dame," Wegs said. 
Nanovic contributed $25,000 to European 
it,  however:  
"It's usefulness  
comes  when  
ALAN JOHNSON  trying to avoid  
BIOLOGIST  sex linked dis­ 
cases that may  
be  at  risk  for  

certain couples." 
Because the procedure seems safe, Johnson feels the issue is a moral one and probably shouldn't be regulated by the government. He admits that "the people should provide input," regarding the new tech­nology, and more research should be done. 


• EUROPEAN STUDIES 
i:::rNanovic Institute celebrates anniversary 
Studies, and Wt)gs and his colleagues used the money to fund leetures. Convinced that his money was being used well, N anovic endowed the department with $5 mil­lion in 1993. The Nanovic Institute was established with Wegs as director. 
Today the institute has grown to encompass not only a leeture and sympo­shun series, but also a pro· gram that funds Noire Dame students and faeulty researching in Europe. Three service grants are awarded to undergraduates each year, and Wegs expects the number to inct·ease to l.ive next year. 
He believes the grants have been wonderful for students, enabling those who spend a semester abroad to stay in Europe t'or a summer and pursue researeh opportunities. 
"It has certainly widened their visions and their aspi· rations. It's right in tune with what the ·university wants to do now to interna· tionalize," he said. 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 
Saint Mary's College presents John Dryden's play 

r;-\f_ ~:z-fl!J: 0/!. 
Thursday -Saturday October 8 -I 0 at 8 p.m. Sunday, October II at 2:30p.m. Little Theatre 
~eeitff/': ~ 
:J~;;,ni:~-~~i~~~" ;Jc;R£;.01 
For ticket information contact 
~E/VTJf~ / I 
the Saint Mary's College Box Office at FOR THE ARTS 
NOTRI! DAMI!, IN 
284-4626 
~ 
-, 
VIEWPOINT 
pageS-----------------------------------------------
-------------------------------Monday, September 28, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Hearher Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rc:inrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ....................... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .. .... Kerry McPanlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR.... . .......... Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ...................... Brett Hudar SPORTS EDITOR .................... Karhleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................•.. Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER.. ...................Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S Emron. ......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pere Cilella PHOTO EDITOR . . .............. Kevin Dalum 
The Ob!-iervcr is rhc indepcndcm newspaper published by the sru~lcnrs of the Uni.vcrsiry ?fN~rre .Da•.ne d.u. 1.-lc ;md. Sai111 Mary's c:nllege. It doc~ nnt ncccs.~arily rdlecr the policies oi rhc adminisrrauon ~t ~1rhcr lllStltur~on.. I h: news IS reported as accurately :md objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprc..~em rh~ opm•~n of du!' m.aJomy oi du: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ed.itnr anJ d~:J?~rrment cdnor~ ..Conu.nentam.·s: lew:.rs and columns present rhe vit..-ws of rhe authors, and nor necessanly those o~ I he Observer. V•cv.:po•nr spac~ 1s av~1l~ble to all members of rhe None Damc/S.ti111 Mary's communiry and [0 all readers. The free expn.'SS1on of v:uymg opmwns rhrough Jerrers is en(:our;~gcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/AssiSiant ME 631-4541 Advenising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 6.~ 1-5323 Sysrems 631-88.~9 Spores 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observt>r@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/Generallnformarion 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews. I @nd.edu 
• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Impeachment for the President? 

Nope 
Was President Andrew Johnson really impeached in 1968? 
And am I mistaken, or does the accompanying graphic depict a skeleton figure blowing Abraham Lincoln's head off with a gun? I'm no great fan of Lincoln, but The Observer needs to exercise a little more taste, discretion and professionalism. 
Not wanting to miss the chance to add my two bits concerning the current presidential debate: GET OVER IT, PEOPLE! You complain about Jerry Springer and Clinton in the same breath. The obsession with Clinton and his smarm-olympics-and the self-congratulatory, self-right­eousness we revel in when we boo him -is cut from the same stock as Jerry-Springerism. Even more, it's Jerry-Springerism at its worst since it's taking the place of meaningful public debate and derailing what should be a government by the people. Am I defending the president? By no means. But the only thing worse than suffering through to the end of his term is trying to end it prematurely. I will defend the Presidency, our government and some semblance of order and dignity. Those who scream for his removal are simply spout­ing partisan politics-sincerely, perhaps. The best thing is to move on, let him !inish out his term as best he may, and learn a little from the experience next campaign season. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. 
Michael Conry Newhouse Fischer Graduate Residences Monday, September 21, 1998 
• DOONESBURY 
ANPA~IUe ROLL­
ItmJ A N&IU tteek. Or !iCANI?At., ITS RAIN/NeSfl0&9 CW CAP/7fXHIU, ~/ 
\ 
May be Best Course of Action 
I write this letter in response to the many articles, opinion pieces, editorials, and polls that have followed in the wake of the Clinton scan­dal and the subsequent Starr report. It appears that the consensus among the American constituency is that Judge Kenneth Starr has gone too far in investigating our Commander-in-Chief and the accusa­tions against him, that he has delved too deeply into minute, immateri­al details. Amidst all of the media frenzy and public gossip, one point has been overlooked. 
While reading such articles or observing the opinions of the public at large, I find that there appear to be two takes on the situation: On one side, the public views the probe as an unnecessary look at the private life of a public figure; and on the other side, constituents complain that if he lies about one thing, then he must be lying about others. Both of these points are well taken, yet there is another aspect that many ignore, and that is the idea that this is not about sex, this is not about indications of character, that this is about breaking the laws of our country, abusing power and manipulating and/or tampering with wit­nesses. 
Just as Watergate was not really about a burglary, the Clinton scan­dal is not really about Monica Lewinsky. Some may argue that every­one has been trying to dig up dirt on Clinton for years. I have but one response for that: it is difficult to dig up dirt when no such dirt exists. It may seem unfair that Clinton should have to answer personal ques­tions, but that does not mean he should have been excused fn1m truth­fully answering questions in a legitimate civil suit merely because of his job. The categorical denials, unfounded invocations of executive privi­lege, and hedging questions with carefully worded responses have made this scandal what it is. Bill Clinton has no one to blame but him­self. 
It is unfortunate that such lurid details have been made public, but the assertions that Judge Starr and the Office of the Independent Counsel did so merely to humiliate the President have no basis. It is through details that evidence suggesting perjury, obstruction of justice and tampering with witnesses can be discovered. The details must be difficult for the President and his family to deal with, and I sympathize with them; my own family spent 14 years in the proverbial fish bowl that political figures must deal with. But after years of scandals and accusations, one would think he would watch his step. I do not ask that he be held to different standards than other Americans; on the con­trary, I ask that he be held to the same ones. The law is the law, and everyone should be held accountable for his actions. 
Ashley C. Lowery Junior, Badin Hall Friday, September 25 
hope. Joseph M. Powers 

• UUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Mydad was the town 
drunk. A lot of times 
that's not so bad -but 
New York City?' 
-Henny Youngman's 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOtJ HA~INI?Ul), Pell#i?. 7H£ MI/I?NEi5S CONTINIJ/39 7lJCLAIM F!<£9H VICTIMS. 7lJ !?A70 fli3P.7. 91/RllJM CHtNOI.f/e!HANI?H~ 
HAVeAUANAl)()NC£1/t:X7RA­
M4J<I7lU_ AnfZlt.~' 
"" 


~~-·--~------~ -~ -· -------~--~------~--­
VIEWPOINT
THE Monday, Sr:ptember 28, 1998---------------------OBSERVER page 9 


• UNCLE HALLWAY 
Dating 
Revamped: 
The 'NDDE' 
Dal ing at. Notre Dame. "Tiwr·e is nothing to do in South BPnd." "WP just havH different sdwduiPs." ''liP :->aid this, she said this, and tlwy won~ both drunk.'' 
This is Notre Dame: classes Monday 
Bob Kerr 
lhr·ough Thursday; bingn-ddnking Thursday 
through Saturday; and then if you are really 
t.alentc•d. thPre's a relationship in there 
sonwwh<'rtL In sonH~ ways. it is almost 
Pxprrlml. It's Notrr~ Damr. 
Tlw gont>ral attitude is that we do not have 
llw luxury to wastn limP on "c~onvrmlional" 
datin!.(. Around horn you nood an appoint­
ment to !1irt. and the lines \'.an he long in the 
wail.ing room. 
But wo a.ro the rwxt generation, and we are 
Notre Dame students. We arc creative. and 
we an~ intelligent. We ean solve this problem. 
Tho Notre Dame Dating Express (NODE): 
".Jump l'ight into your next relationship.'' No 
more misunderstandings. No more lonely 
nwals in Uw dining hall-just weekly ads in 
thn Observnr. The Exprc1ss eovors the bastJs 
for you. 
"SWM seeking SWF w/OUT psychotic ten­
dendos." 
Are you too embarrassed to place an ad'? Don't worry. this thing will eatch on like a wild. finl. llotlfll' than flnx points, cooler than· the other side of the pillow. In fact, NDDE virtually eliminates the embarrassment fae· tor. You'll know who's single, and whore tlwy'rc ticklish. 
"SWF seeking MH. Varsity." 
Beggars can't be choosers. unless of course 
llwy're using NDDE. 
Be!{gars r:an choose from a plethora of dynamil: ND students. The Dating Express is like a create-a-dabJ. You f.ind someone com­patible with YOUH lifestyle. Start a relation­ship ofT on YOUH terms. 
"SWF seeking SWM available for lunch @ SDII T,ll and dinner on SU." 
If we could please just skip the introduc­tions. wn havH places to go, and people to imprnss. You don't have time to waste on Ms. Bight? Forget "time,'' and think "communica­tion.'' Do you want to meet someone just like you right now'! Tho Dating Express keeps everyone on the same page. 
"SWF seeking SWM to make X-WMjeal· nus." 
South Bond is not gotting any sunnier, and without The Express. your first dates are get­ting colder and colder. L<lt's face it, there will n!'vor bP anything to do, so you may as well be doing "nothing" with someone like your­self. 
"SWM snnking SWF seeking more video games and c:heapor beer.'' 
Unless you'll bump-and·grind on a coffee tabln, llw dosing of' Bridg1~t McGuire's raises th<' life expectancy of the single once again. In tnrms of hooking you up, this serviee will put Bridget to shame. Using the Dating ExprPss, you won't hav!' to bnat around tho bush. 
"SWM seeking SWF for 'walk-of-shame."' 
At Notrn DunHl. our tastns are particular, and the diversity of the student body can be intimidating. The NDDE will stop you from wasling time on Mr. Wrong. so you ean find Mr. Hight. 
Boh Kerr is ajuniur english Major. He can bee-mailed atllobert. .I.Kerr.IO@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neccessarily those oj''l'he Observer. 
• HE WOULD HAVE HATED IT, BUT HE WOUlD HAVE DONE IT 
Davie to Mattison: Thank God he Came Back 
I low ironic is it that Tony Driver savnd the jobs of our coaching stair? 
l'urdtH' replaced 17 startr~rs from the team that beat us last yr~ar. Anyorw who was surprised by the difliculty wn had in winning this ganw against Purdue just has not bnen paying attrmtion. Purdue plays as if thny have something to prove. I am not sun~ what Notm Damn has bnm1 trying to prove in the first half of each ganw this year. What thr~y have shown is whatrwer thny havn bnrm prnparing for is wrong and when thny resign tlwmsnlves to simply play fi>otball, old Notre Damn will win ovnr all. 
The bnst way to 
describe Notre 
Dame's play 
would bn dodging 
Kevin 
bullets. Purdue had two huge dropped passes by one of their
Patrick 
best reeeivers 
-_____:========-----that would have
sealed thn victo­ry. In tlw first half'. likn Lazarus rising from the dead, tho Fighting Irish staynd alivP bPcause of multiple. dangerous 4th down r:onvnrsions. This ganw was not fun. 
llugn cn~ditmust be given to .larious .Jackson, whos\~ rr~sili<'rH:y and dPtnrmination hPipnd him rPbound from a tough first half' and lPad us to victory. I le ran hard through­out the ganw. but his duteh passing in the 4th quarter was the real clifl(mmce maker. Those balls were throws of a champion. I would. however, like to see him tuck and run some of those scrambles out of the pocket-this would make del'rmses morn honestly play his scrambling ability. In gener­al. just get "the damn ball" 
in .Jabari Holloway's hands by any means necessary, and thP rest will take care of itself. 
Defensively, we are a much better team with an aggressive, attacking, and blitzing scheme-let's all hope fill' more rather than less, and sooner rather than later on that front. Admittedly, Purdue's quar­terbaek did everything right in the first half. Although he had the Indiana high school refs signaling touchdown for incomplete passes simply landing in the end zone. Who hirnd these guys? Were they using CFL rules? Anyway, it was quite fitting that a defensive baekfinld with no interceptions this season (the negation of Brock Williams piek was grand larceny) had their streak broken by the one guy who ,didn't want to be there (tnmporarily). Tony Driver summed up his departure and return the bnst, "I made the decision (to eome here) for the next 30 years. not the next four years." Good, now let's <ill go to the Grotto and light a candle. 

,.
' ' "' 
This game was dearly won and lost by the X-factor. The parking lot was something right out of the X-files: ex-roommates, ex-Jiances, ex-emper­ors, ex-Ken Starr law clerks. I actually ran into one of the drafters of Ken Starr's report to Congress. What was he investigating? The truth behind Tony Driver's absence? Why Bobby Brown has zero catches? Why Malcolm .Johnson throws his gloves in the stands after games (he did not drop one pass Saturday; hint: keep those gloves)? The fact that the game was won by an ex-tailback that was briefly an ex­Domer should surprise no one. 
If llunter Smith had dropped the hold for that final field goal, or .Jim Sanson had missed we never would have forgiv­en them. Since llunter pieknd the ball oll'the ground to give Sanson a shot, and Sanson put it through the uprights, make sum Wf~ congratulatn them. Also, if you see the Bizarro World version of Kory Minor around campus, please change him in for the Kory Minor who ravaged ofl'enses the previous three years-I miss him .. 
Tony Driver's rescue of Notre Dame does not change the reality that we have some major malfunctions on this team: 
First: our football team plays the first half of games as if it is a scrimmage. If tho coaches can not get the players fired up to proteet God's turf. then the players will have to do it tlwmselves. 
Second: Why WPre there drives (I am using this torm loose­ly) on offnnse wlwn our tailbacks did not touch tlw ball? W<~ wore averaging ten yards a carry! Why pass? Tony Hice was a better passer than Jarious .Jackson and lw ran~ly, if evnr, passml the ball in 19R8. That year Notre~ I >anw ran, and Notre DamP won. Eleven games. Onn National Title. You do not have to be a teacher of mathmnatics to figuro that out. 
Whiln we are at it. why are wo running Autry Dnnson­our best player-into the ground? We have half a doznn All­American tailbacks on the b<inch. Usn them! Maybe then we will have less players quit. Give the frnshmnn morn to do than rnturn errant kicks. Freshman tight nnd .John Owrms drove Purdue's defensive end into tlw sidPiinns, dearing the way filr Denson's 3rd quarter touehdown. Using Tony Fislwr. Mike McNair. or veteran backups like Darcy Levy will koPp Denson healthy and fresh throughout tlw snason. 
Third: Why is it that Purdue playm·s can use arm-tackles and ankle-tackles to bring our players down, and wn hit them head-on and th1~y keep going (opening kickofl' exception noted for Dnke Cooper)'? 
Fourth: Why were Bobby Brown and Malcolm .Johnson lazily walking tho plays in when 'saving time in thn 4th quar­ter was vital to our success? Maybe wasting 15 seconds J)Pr play duo to lack of hustling doesn't mattnr to certain players or coadws, but it sure doos to toams who want to win. Maylw if Bobby Brown spent more time working on pass routns and less time talking to women he wouldn't have to usn tlw excuse that e.oaehes hate him to explain why he can't gnt open. 
Fifth: What happened to our shuttling of delimsive players? The tired and often disorganized defense eost the oll'!msr~ much needed time-outs. Both teams were on tho field tho 
exact same amount of time. 
Purdue had their time-outs available for dock manage­ment at the end of the game. Why didn't we? 
For a while there, it looked like the only way we could 
. leave Notre Dame stadium without a loss would be for the "Dump Bill Bradley" plane to collide with the Goodyear Blimp creating a "Biaek Sunday" end to the game. But then Joe Tiller, who had coached a gnmt game prior to the end, snatched defeat from the jaws of victory with his play-call­ing. Last year I wrote that he was an idiot for his play call­ing at the end of thn game. I le threw half-baek options that should have been int1~rcepted, and threw on third-and-two when running out the clock was his goal. That year he was lucky, this year it cost him the game. To have coached such an excellent game and then throw on third and ten when the game dock was your only opponent was pure stupidity (to quote a pre­vious column). Everything around Notre Dame seems a bit surrnal these days. Contrary to the national norm, you have to 

pay for women's soccer, but men's games are free. Notre Dame beats Michigan by 16, then loses to Michigan State by 22, who then loses to Michigan by 12. That makes about as much sense as us join­ing the Big Ten. Today, we have Bill Clinton, whose wife worked to force the disgraceful resignation ol' l'ormnr President Richard Nixon for lying and other crimes. Soon to be ex-President Clinton is now being pressured to resign for his cigar, lies, and videotape. No matter what either of them accomplished, their legacy will always b1~ overshadowed by their disgraceful fall. I will say this. if Notre Dame joins the Big Ten. Mike Wadsworth will be lucky if he is nver remem­bered as fondly as those two. 
After the game was sealed by Tony Driver's second inter­ception, the first guy Bob Davie hugged was defensive coordi­nator Greg Mattison. You could hear their unspoken rejoice, "Thank God he eamc back." 
Kevin Patrick is in the final year ofthe .1/J/M/JA program. 1/e thinks Stanford should paJj dearly for beating our ass last year and insulting the Irish. 1/e can be reached at kevin. d.patrick.16@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author. and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


---------------Monday, September 28, 1998 
Copycat film strikes theaters! 
to her place. Ile awakens recycles themes that worked in earlier intelligence of a horror film that attracts
"Urban Legend" 
the next morning in a tub films. They can expect a repertoire of one­its audience. Hather, it is the terror and of ice water with a cell line witticisms, conveniently-vacated pub­hand-wringingjitteriness that it begds. phone and a letter lic places (even an empty bathroom at a The viewer will be largely disappointed 
Director: Jamie Blanks 
instructing him to call 911. keg party), torrential downpours, incredu­on the latter score as well. The film gener­Starring: Alicia Witt, jared Leto, Joshua jackson, 
To his shock, he discovers lous adults and a killer dressed in distinc­ates little of the nail-biting suspense that that one of his kidneys has tive garb. "The Shining," "The Exorcist,"
Rebecca Gayheart and Robert Englund 
been surgically removed Jason wore a hockey mask; Michael _"Halloween" or "Nightmare on Elm so that it could be sold on Myers, a cadaverous rubber mold; the Street" did. Opening with a craftily con-the black market. cocted murder. the 

Perhaps the 
lilm does not sustain most famous jts original level of and scariest intensity. Each sub­urban legend in sequent embodi­(Out offive shamrocks) 
its time was the ment of' an urban tale of how. legend is less supris­Mikey, the kid ing and less disturb­By RICHARD CRIBB 
from the Life Cereal commer­ing. Scene Movie C:riric 
cials. died when his intestines The director's exploded after consuming a attempts to searn Inevitably, a blockbuster movie will 
combination of Pop Hocks and the movie-goer spawn several oflspring of the same ilk. 
Pepsi. amount to little The hugely successful "Scream" reorient­Both legends will reappear in more than isolated ed the horror genre by poking fun at the this film. instances of charac­
genre itself. Tlw characters acquired a Alicia Witt plays Natalie, a ters bumping into consciousness that they were acting in a student at New England's each other, punctu­horror film. 
Pendleton College -recently ated by s<:renching Along comes "Urban Legend," a strictly declared the country's safest violin chords. This "horror-by-the-numbers" film that adds university. The collegn is about technique was terri­nothing inventive to the genre and will do to lose its cachet. fying in "Alien," but little for tim movie-goer except provide a After two students die in a ·here it tastes stale. 
catalog of the more popular urban leg­
particularly lurid fashion, Witt is the only
Photo Courtesy of Sony Pictures 
ends. It marks the directorial debut for Natalie begins to suspect that a actor in the film who
Alicia Witt (left) stars in "Urban Legend," which pulled in a respectable $11
26-year-old Jamie Blanks and the screen­
serial killer is incarnating urban million at the box office this weekend. -c·omforts herself 
writing debut of 24-year-old Silvio Horta. 
legends on campus. Because of' with a modicum of' two recent fihn-schoolgraduates fi.Jr whom the nature of tlu~ deaths, no one believes killers in "Scream," a goulish costume; the intdligonce. She represents a relh~shingbetter work certainly lies ahead. 
her, except a student-reporter named stalker in "I Know What You Did Last contrast to thn standard shriekingAn urban legend is contmnporary folk­Paul (Jared Leto). Summer," a rain slicker. "damsel-in-distress" characters that pop­lore passed on as a true story, usually As the numbers are painted, most of In "Urban Legend," a fur-lined winter ulate slasher films. The rest of tlw cast with a moral admonition. The Greeks Natalie's friends are blotted out. until the parka masks the killer's identity, which in serves mainly as urban legend fodder. 
used llomer to edify their youth; we usc last "t" is crossed in the multiple-climax New England would almost certainly earn The identity of' tim killer is kept saft~lyurban legends. 
finale. Of course, one "i" is left undotted to him the appellation, "Pendleton Parka guarded from all but a lucky guess, but One urban legend, which enjoyed popu­leave room for a sequel. Killa." It strains credulity to discover how that is due more to the implausibity of' larity a few ymtrs ago, depicted a man Lovers of the horror genre should not popular such parkas are in the film. who the killer is than to skillful screen-who meets a woman at a bar and returns expect new plot devices, bncause the lilm It's doubtful, however, that it is the writing. 
'Ronin' is the thrill of the chase 
ease -whose contents acclaimed play-instead of' losing are unknown but greatly wright and screen­it as the <memy
"Ronin" 
valuable and widely writer David does. desired are all Mamet). For example, Director: john Frankenheimer 
trained warriors with The effect is that the crew mem­loyalties to no one and the audience bers communi­
Starring: Robert De Niro, Natascha McElhone, 
nothing but themselves believes that any one cate with each and their wallets, mak­of these four charac­other as they ing them extremely dan-ters possesses the make split-sec­gerous. capal1ility of com­ond decisions, The band is composed mitting any violent consequently 
Jonathan Pryce andjean Reno 
) 
of a talented interna­act, within reason­lilling the audi­
··;J 
tional cast of actors. able limits. This pro­ence in as to Hobert De Niro, in fine vides the movie's what goes on. form, plays a cold and authenticity. Realism is
(Out offive shamrocks) 
calculating American One of the most another ex-CIA agent. Jean Reno exhilarating aspects strength of this ("The Professional." of this film is that it film. It shows "Mission: Impossible") revives the simple that. contrary By JILLIAN DEPAUL plays Vincent. He forms art of the chase. The to what some Scene Movie Critic· a friendship with Robert De Niro's sequence of action in this movie are more eonventional Hollywood films character, which raises the issue of well-executed and extremely refresh-prefer for you to believe, if there is 
"Ronin;" a captivating suspense­trust in an unfamiliar setting. ing because they dilute the notion continual violence in a public arna for thriller, challenges its audience to Stellan Skarsgard ("Good that asteroids and explosions a sustained period of time, that inno­piece together an intriguing puzzle. Will Hunting," "Breaking are necessary to create cent bystanders are affected. 
As one watches the film. it forces he the Waves," scenes that get the "Honin" is not without faults, though. or she to unravel the mysteries behind "Amistad") and adrenaline pump­By far the most significant of these is the plot and unmask the characters Natacshe ing. that it suffers from a painfully slow from the poker faces that they wear so McElhorne "Honin" proves opening. well. The brilliant direction of John ("The Devil's that there is The film opens when thn group is ini­Frankenheimer manages to keep the Own," "The nothing better tially assembled and covers tlw time audience guessing throughout the Truman than a good, that they spend preparing for the job. nntire film. right along with their on­Show") round old-fashioned If someone edited the lirst 20 minutes screen counterparts. out the eclec­high-speed if the movie, the film's appeal would 
Even the title of the film excites tic team. car chase. improve exponentially. It would make one's curiosity. The title "llonin" is a The most The two car more sense if the director set the tone Japanese term that refers to a impressive chases in this right away and immediately immnrsed Samurai who must face a life-sentence thing about film are the audience into the action instead of of shame. void of the honor and loyalty this cast is strategically dragging them through an unneces­of their former title. This comes their ability to planned and sary and tedious beginning. because they allowed the murder of convince the placed. both in What's important about "llonin" is their master. audience that they the narrow, enig­not the contents of the suitcase. The 
llow does it pertain to a film set in arc cold-blooded, matic streets of Nice, audience dons not particularly eare France that centers around a terrorist determined killers -France, and the intri­about what is in the suitcase or about plot involving Ireland and llt~ssia'? with the aid of a well-writ-cate tunnel system of Paris. who gets it in the end. What they do The term 'llonin' deals with this !ilm ten script They also care about, though, is how they get it. because it reveals an integral part of ( w h i c h Photo Courtesy of MGM/UA unfold in a way The thrill of the chase is what ulti­


Natascha McElhone costars in "Ronin," where the 
the nature of its central characters. received an that allows the mately makes "Honin" the entertaining
thrill of the chase and the characters' desire to 
The group of professional killers and unaccredited audience to fol­film that it is. 
accomplish the goal outweigh the actual goal. 
thieves that are hired to steal a suit-rewrite by the low the chase 



IRISH INSIDER » vs. 
Monday, September 28, I998 ------------------page 1 


The Observer/John Daily 
Senior Jim Sanson (19) watches his kick sail through the uprights and his Irish gain their first lead with 57 seconds. Hunter Smith (17), his holder, points out the victory. 
Steaming out the Boilermakers 
By M. SIIANNON RYAN \.1inr M.uy\ Editor 
In a ganw wlwrP Notre~ llanw Jwvm· lnd for I'VI'II lllll' full minull', safl'ly Tony lll'ivPr rP\\'I'Otl' an immirwnt gloomy nnd­ing into a fairytaiP comPhark. 
With tiH• l'inal tlm·l' minutns in thn skilll'd hands or l'urdul' quartnrback llrl'w Bn•Ps. tlw Irish appnarPd to Jw lrwkl'd in tlw guillotirw awaiting tlw drop of thP hladc·. But tlu• sncoud Brens rnad­jusll'd Iris grip. llrivPr struck ba1:k with two illli'ITI'Jllious within o1w minutP of l'arlr otlwr. 
Tlu• nabs. whirh Wl'rn NotrP Danw's first of tlw spason and llrivPr's earPnr lirsl sinrn switching to 1111' sProndary this yPar. took tiH• sharpnPss out of Purdu1>s PdgP and ultimatPiy dPt1•rminnd Notrn IJarur>s :ll-:lO victory. 
"It shows you how vou IH'I'd to makn plays," llavi;. said or"Driwr's intnn·pp­lions and tlw climarlir Pnd. "WIH'n you sark a quartPrback or rausP a fumbln or iutl•iTI']lt tlw hall. tlr1• wlwlr· rhythm of thl' gamr· l'iwugPs." 
Although llavir• willingly chalknd tlw gamn up as Notre Damn's seeond win of thn snason. lw would probably likn to nras1~ sonw of the ganw's scribbles. 
In thn first hall', the Irish desperately nnmlnd someorw to play the storybook lwro role while the trend of late power surges continuml. 
l'urdun blasted onto the field, shocking th1~ Irish for two quick, unanswered touchdowns in tho first quartnr. 
BrnPs h~d tlw Boilers SO yards in eight plays in just more than thme minutes and COIHWctnd with Lane for a 13-yard touch­down pass. which oflkials revertnd to the ruin book to deterrninn after Lane re­nntnrnd from out-of-bounds. 
Notrn DamP gairwd only two yards on its short-lived driw bdore Brees drove his team anotlwr 70 yards on 10 plays and pullt·d away from the Irish 14-0 with his two-yard kenpnr. 
Brnns toynd with th1~ Irish dd'ensn throughout the gamn by going 24-36 for 2h I yards. The sophomorn also led his tPam in rushing liu· 51) yards on thn day. 
"Our ddPnse struggl<'d today." said Davin of thP crnw ll'd by DPkn Cooper with I I tackles. "Thnir oiTnnse is very hard to dr.fend but we weren't making the plays on defense. We never consistently stopped them." 
Getting into jams didn't seem to bother the Irish. They completed just 7 of 16 third-down attempts but tested the odds, going 3-3 on fourth-down conversions. 
"I think everyone can see where we are right now; we're not a good football toam," Davie said. 
Although Driver mobilized the Irish in the end, it was Denson who carried tho team piggyback. 
Denson finished the day with two touch­downs and 143 rushing yards. surpassing Vagas Ferguson for second place on the carn()r total list with 3,472 yards. 
It was also the 19th time Denson rushed for I 00 yards in a ganw. ranking him just two shy of Alan Pinkott's n~conl. 
"Autry-hn's prntty much like a savior to us today." Irish quarterback Jarious Jackson said. 
Denson, who sped through holes Purdue coach Joe Tillor daimod hn could lit through, snapped tho Irish out of their comatose statn in the sm:ond quarter. In a drivn with two fourth-down conversions. 
Denson plowed over Purdue's guard and ran up tho middle li>r a 14-yard scorn. 
After Purdue kicknr Travis Dorsch responded with his first of three l'inld goals another Irish candidate was added to the player-of-the-game ballot. 
Sophomore Jabari Holloway emerged from the Irish shadows. linishing with 1)4 yards on four receptions and two TDs. 
llolloway brought the Irish into the red zone, where the Irish arn 14-14 on tho season, with a 16 yard grab. On third down. Jackson again hit the 6-foot-3 sophomore who strod1~ into thn end zone. inching the Irish within thnw. 17-14. 
After a controvPI'Sial Brees to Issac Jones six-yard TD pass, Purdtw went to the locker room up by SIWI\11. But tlw Irish came out playing with rmwwml spirit. 
The defnnsn containc.•d Brees morn nll'eetively and gavo up just thrne points in each of tho two remaining quarters. Meanwhile. the om~nsn scorPd 17 points. building its stats considerably. 
Jarkson. who comph•tPd liw of I 0 pass­es in tlw lirst half. rPgiston~d 143 of his I1) 1) yards passing in tlu~ SI~COIHI half. 
sec GAME I page 2 
PLAYER OF THE GAME Q!)OTE OF THE GAME STAT OF THE GAME 
Autry Denson rushed for 143 yards against the Boilermakers, posting his
Tony Drivnr savml tho day for the Irish 
"I think everyone can see where we are 19th 100 yard or better game. He upped 
with his two intnrcnptions within one 
right now; we're not a good football team." his career total to 3,509 Jards passing
minute of each other. The pickol'l's rngis­
u~rm1 as Driver's first career interceptions 
Vagas Ferguson for secon place on the
Head coach Bob Davie 
and Notrn Damo 's firsts for the season. 
all-time rushing list. 
page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 28, 1 998 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish weather the Boilermaker Brees 
GRADING THE IRISH 
Quarterbacks: B 
Jackson proved that the loss to the Spartans was a fluke. Of course Jackson came out running, but he also threw for 13 receptions, 2 TDs and 199 yards Saturday, compared to 16 receptions with 2 TDs in tlw first two games. Now if he can only improve on his 45 porcent completion rate. 
Bunning Backs: A 
Autry Denson is the spark the offense relies on. He produced even when the rest of the offense didn't in the first half. Jamie Spencer did an excellent job blocking for Denson. 
Receivers: B 
Only about half of Jackson's passes were grabbed by the receivers, but the ones they did hold down turned into big plays -note, Jabari Holloway's two TDs. The offense seems confident that running the ball isn't the only way to gain yards. 
Offensive Line: A 
Denson was on fire, and the line was the spark. Despite the strength Purdue had in its defensive line, Jackson had time to throw and Denson always had the lane to run. 
Defensive Line: B 
The Irish defense was weak in the first half. Despite getting in front of J. Crabtree. they gave Drew Brees all the time he needed to rack up 261 yards pass­ing and 59 yards rushing. 
Linebackers: B 
It was the newcomers who had the biggest success of the game, with Anthony Denman and Joe Ferrer recording sacks. Most of the receptions were for short yardage that the linebackers let become big gains. 
Defensive Backs: B 
Tony Driver's two hy interception saved the game for the Irish. That and Deke Cooper's 11 tackles. includ­ing one for a fumble were the only saving graces. Out of position and off the plays are not where they should be against a quarterback like Brees. 
Special Teams: B+ 
Sanson was consistent. Even Davie admitted that they shouldn't have kicked a 45-yard field goal into the wind. Sanson got that one back in the closing seconds for the win. Hunter Smith botched two early punts, getting about 30 yards on them. 
Coaching: B+ 
Davie must be doing something right in the lock­er room at halftime. Going to the air more is a must to keep winning. The defense wasn't prepared as they should have been early on. 
Overall: 3.30 
This was a complete turn­around from Michigan State, but it couldn't be much­Worse. There's a long way to go before the Irish can play all 60 minutes without error. 


dominated. 
By ANTHONY BIANCO On the other side of the ball, 
Assisram Sports Editor 
the Irish didn't even have a chance to take the lead -even 
Ther1~ was a strong Brees 
with Holloway's heroics -until 
gusting all day Saturday. and the final few minutes of play. 
Purdue took advantage of it for Good thing for the Irish that 
almost all 60 minutes of play. 
Purdue didn't take advantage of 
Purdue quarterback Drew 
Notre Dame's inability to read 
Brees and his Boilermaker 
Bn~es and his attack. offnnsn were unstoppable in thn 
Thrm again, the task of stop­
lirst half. Thn first-year sopho­
ping Brees and his receivers 
more signalcaller just seem1~d has been a daunting challenge 
to loft balls that sailed into the 
for opponents all year. They n~c:eivers hands with the aid of 
have averaged 240 yards pass­
tlw constantly blowing wind. 
ing in their first three games,
Jarious .Jackson could only connecting for six touchdowns. 
wish for similar luck,.....&ut the "We want!~d to get them out 
Irish option-focused offense, 
of rhythm [with our offense[,"
which only had a 41.5 percent 
said Purdue head eoach Joe 
pass completion rate going into Tiller. "That's something we've 
the game, didn't need a strong 
done in the past, and that's 
Brnes. It had a strong 
something we'll do again in the 
llolloway. 
future." 
The sophomore tight end 
That focus gave the gave the Irish a taste of how a Boilermakers the early advan­
pass-oriented team plays. With tage, allowing them to hit two 
just one reception for seven 
touchdowns and gain 212 yards 
yards in his first two games, passing in the first half. The 
Holloway had four Saturday for 
Irish secondary, without the 
Y4 yards. Then again, Jackson services of the injured starting
w1mt to all his receivers more strong safety Benny Guilbeaux,
against Purdue. Totaling just 17 had one of their biggest chal­
catches in the first two games, lenges all season. They needed 
Jackson completed 13 against 
to keep up with the 
the Boilermakers. 
Boilermaker offense, and their 
"We believed if we could exe­constant rotation of receivers. 
cute our game plan we could "They have a lot of receivers 
win the game," said Jackson. 
rotating in and out," comment­
The difference between this 
ed strong safety Tony Driver. 
game and the previous two is "They're always fresh for every
that the Irish now have a more play." Despite struggling all day, it It was a huge Irish play on a complex gameplan-now they The rotations of Isaac Jones, was the secondary that became day when the Brees dominated. 
can go to the air. 
Vinny Sutherland, Tim Stratton, the playmakers in the final few With just seconds remaining,Holloway's two touchdown Randal Lane and Cliff Jackson minutes of play. Scrambling Brees attempted to move the 
receptions not only kept the 
were Brees' key targets, each from the pocket, Brees drilled ball into fieldgoal range with team in the game and setup the landing more than two recep­one up the middle, something another throw up the middle,comeback in the closing min­tions apiece. Brees had a num­Purdue had not done all day. but after a deflection by Lane, utes. but sold everyone on hav­ber of Boilermakers to throw to that was over Lane but right ends up in the hands of Driver ing a decent passing game to all day with the lack of tight into the hands of Driver. to secure the Irish win. 
complement the work of Autry coverage Driver returned that ball to Brees can only carry Purdue 
Denson and Jackson on the 
"We weren't making the plays the five-yard-line, setting up so far. It was a good thing that ground. 
on defense and not making the the Jim Sanson field goal to the Irish realized and took Simply put, Holloway's touch­tackles. We never consistently give Notre Dame its first lead of advantage of it before the gamedowns were huge plays for the stopped them," said head coach the game with less than a was over. 
Irish on a day when the Brees 


The Irish could not break the plane on three Autry Denson attempts and they
Game 
turned to kicker Jim Sanson who had ear­lier missed his first field goal of the sea­
continued from pagel 
son on a 45-yard attempt. Sanson successfully booted the game­Malcolm Johnson also caught for 56 winning 17 -yarder with only 57 secondsyards, most in the second half. 
remaining.
One boost for the Irish was a third Driver then ran a deja-vu play with thequarter bomb to Ilolloway, which set up a 138th straight sellout crowd. 
five-yard Denson TO, bringing the Irish After the Boilermakers took over onwithin a field goal of Purdue's 24 points. 
their own 44-yard line and ran a no-hud­The 51-yard pass. the longest of Jackson dle offense. Driver snatehed another from and Holloway's careers. helped atone liJr Brees. He returned the interception for 17the Irish losing 48 yards on five penalties. 
yards, for 54 yards total on interceptions.
After Purdue's two field goals, 
Davie may be happy with the characters Holloway grabbed another touchdown and ending, but he would like to changepass to creep up on Purdue, 30-28. 
the plot and climax of the game story. 
With just more than a minute left in the 'To win today can be something yougame.-Driver stretched the level of hero­can build on to have a heck of season," 
ics, picking off an overthrown pass 
Davie said. "But just because we did winintended for Lane over the middle. 
today doesn't mean we're going to have a"It seemed like everything was happen­heck of a season. We have got to improveing in slow motion," said Driver. 
and we have got to get better as a team." 
• GAME NOTES AND QuOTES 
Bob Davie: "You don't have to learn every lesson the hard way. We won today but we know we have to improve." 
Tony Driver: 
"I had good blocks all the way to the end zone, butl was stopped just short of where I wanted to end up." 
Purdue head coach Joe Tiller: "Anytime you throw the ball over the middle, there's a 50-50 chance that they can intercept the ball." 
Notre Dame is 15~5 when Autry Denson rushes for at least 1 00 yards. 
Notre Dame is 14-14 in the red zone, scoring nine touchdowns and five field goals. 
Notre Dame has beaten Purdue 11 straight times at Notre Dame stadium dating back to 1974. 
Denson has rushed for seven career touchdowns against Purdue and is tied for most with former Irish fullback Anthony Johnson (1986-89). 


r------------~----------------------------------------------------------c---~---------------------------------­
Monday, September 28, 1998 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Denson's dizzying pace threatens various records 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
~purrs Editor 
With each ganw Autry Denson plays. hn carves out a hit of history. 
liP slowly chips away at opposing lP<un's dt'f'nnsivP fronts and cuts Iwtw11Pn mPan lPams s•worHlary. I lis on linld pnr­fonwn•·n jusl bandy hints at his domi­na ncn in llw Notrn llanw n~cord books. 
Against l.lw BoilPrnutkPrs. !111 gainnd I·D yards 011 :{I rarrins. liP had two touchdowns and a singln r11cnplion for six vards. 
"Autry flat oul rarriPd us in tlw l'irsl half'." h;•ad roarh Bob l>avin said. "With tlw way 111• playPd, wn IIIH'dPd to go to No.2:{. Wn had to g11t him tlw hall." 
I )pnsoll amassnd I Of> yards on 14 •:ar­riPs in tlw first half alorll'. 
"I don't fppJ likn I rarriPd llw [Pam," I>Pnson said. "My fullharks blockl'd gn•al all day and my li11nml'n. Wh1111 you an1 gPiling tlw ball and you an• making movl's on lilll'lmckl'rs a11d saldys. as a 
-

rolll'gl' tailbark you arn nxpPI'I.I'd to will lhat batlll'." 
liP pummPind his way past tlw BoiiPrmakl'r dPfi'IISiVI' front lo cap tlw Notn• llanw driVI'. llis touchdown gavn 1111• Irish tlwir lirst points of tl1n ganw. 
"I had a lot of lwlp today from my oll'l'nsivP linn and my fullbacks blocking mP," I>Pnson said. "Their blocks mad11 I'VI'ry play I II ad today. Tlw wholn oiTPnsn playPd tlwir !warts out for tlw win today. WP playPd with a lot or hnart and krww how to p11rlimn to win." 
Al'll'r till' Boilnrmak11r win. Davie PXpmssnd conc11rn aljout his of1'11nse. lie that is what I tried to do and things just unit. And we feel like when we play exe­"All our younger backs aro very talent­fnll that Notw DamP needs to return to wont the right way." cution football and don't kill ourselves ed, very fast and they can play very option football and not to rely so heavily In addition to his first half touchdown. with inconsistent plays, we can play with well," Denson said about his younger on l>Pnson. With numerous rushing he got another in the second half with a anyone." counterparts. "It is somewhat of a com­n~eords in joopardy, Davi11 nends to rnal­quick cut at the Purdue 5 yard line. In his three years here, he has proven petition, and I guess my job as a senior is izn that a rwrl'nct balancn must be Denson almost scored another at the end that he can run with the best of him. to go out and just give everything I have. al'.hievod utili1.ing Donson to his upmost ol' the game but after three unsuccessful Denson totally proved his power by earn­This is my last go around. W\hether or without jeopardizing Jackson's ability. attempts Notre Dame settled for the field ing his most yards against the defending not they're playing or not, I don't control 
Bnsidns posting his 19th 100 yard goal. Purdue's Chike Okeafor made the national champions. Michigan. l-Ie has that. I guess it is kind of my job to keep ganw or lwttnr, lw rushnd for his sixth­goal line stand !'or the Boilermakers. moved into third place on Notre Dame's them oft' the field." lwst ganH' of his carnnr. llis 14:~ yards With his two touehdowns on Saturday. career rushing touchdown list with 33. At the rate which Denson is going, all tin wilh his pnrformance last wintllr Denson has rushed for seven career /\lien Pinkett leads with 49 while Louis Notre Dame rushing records are within against llawaii. By amassing his 19th touchdowns against the Boilermakers "Hed" Salmon is second with 36. shattering distance. llis pace is dizzying 100 yard ganw or bllttnr, lw is two and is tied with former Irish fullback Denson's 143 yards rushing upped his and it seems apparent that the doser he gamPs away from lHnaking Allnn Anthony Johnson for the most touch­career total to 3,509 yards, surpassing gets to the end ol' his collegiate career, l'inkPtt's rPcord of I 00 yard ganws downs in the Notre Dame-Purdue series. Vagas Ferguson who chalked up three, the more determined he will become. whirh stands at ~I. "We li1lt like we eould run the ball on 472 fur second place on the all-time The question lurking in every Notre 
"Wiwrwvnr WI' gol out. no matter il' wn anyorw," Denson said. "I mean we came rushing list. Pinkett leads with 4,131 Dame fan's mind is not whether or not arl' winning or losing, my job is to he out and playml a very good Purdue team. yards. The record for top rusher in Notre he will break Pinkett's all-time rushing kind or likn tlw sparkplug, to chargn not to take anything away from Purdue. Damn's history lies just in the future for record but who will provide the running I'VPryhody Plsn up," lknson said. "So We l'ecllike wn arn a very good offensive Denson. game when Denson graduates.
.. 

• STATISTICALLY SPEA!\ING 
Scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Notre Dame 14 7 10
(} Purdun 14 10 3 3 
Team Statistics ND PU First Downs ~I 2~ Huslwd-Yards 183 123 Passing-Yards 199 ~61 Sacknd-Yard Lost :~-14 1-1 

Passes 24-13-0 36-24-2 
Punts 4-177 2-67 
Fumblns-Lost 1-0 1-1 Pnnaltins-Yanls 5-48 5-35 
v 
Time of Possession 30:22 ~9:38 
Individual Statistics 
s 
Hushing NI>-DPnson 31-158, Jackson 1~-42, Goodspeed 1-2. Speneer 1-0 I'll-Brees 11-59, Crabtree 16-51, Johnson 6-36 
Passing 
ND-Jaekson 24-13-0-199 
PU-Brees 36-24-2-261 
Heceiving ND-Johnson, M. 5-56, Holloway 4-94. Getherall 1-17. Johnson, J. 1-15. Spencer 1-11. Denson 1-6 Pll-Jones 6-83, Lane 6-71, Jackson 4-35, Stratton 3-21, Crabtree 2-31, Sutherland 2-11, Cox 1-9 


1st Quarter  2nd Quarter  3rd Quarter  4th Q~arter  
PU-Handall 13 yard pass !'rom l.>rees  ND-Denson 14 yard tun (Sanson kick)  ND-Denson 5 yard run (Sanson kick)  PU-Dors~:h 47 yard field goal  
!Dorsdl kirkl  PU-06r-seh 37 yard field goal  PU-Dorsch 40 yard field goal  NO-Holloway 17 yard pass from  
Pll-Brnes 2 yai'Cl run (Dorsch kick)  NO-Holloway 10 y.u·d pass from  Jackson (Sanson kick)  
Jackson (Sanson kick)  ND-Sanson 17 yard field goal  
PU-Jones 6 yard pass from Brees  
(Dorseh kick)  

, 

... 
t:• 

-
s~ n-­

Monday. September 28, 1998 -------------------0BS~RVER -----------------------page 1 1 

• VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

11 All the President's Men" 
Director: Alan Pakula 
Starring: Dustin Hoffman, Robert Redford, Jason Robards and John Randolph 

By MIKE M~:MORROW '-.n·nL' fv1ovic (:1 itk 
Carl BPrnstPill and Bob Woodward gavP an nnlightnning int<~rvinw on CNBC a month ago, giving t.lwir narnest opin­ions on llw Clinllln l'risis and mon• gnn­nrallv on thn dirnctions t.lw mndia sonms to lu; lwadnd as a wholt>. Tlwy spok<~ ol' llw Olll<'J-g<•ncn of 24-hour 1wws and ol' i.IH· magnitud1• to which massivn nwdia hypo al'l'orls llw puhlil' pnn:Pplion of f'V<'nls. 
Tlwy put tho Clinton sox scandal in pnsp<•rtivn by sp<'aking ol' how-while not trivializing thP poor judgnwnt of Clinton -tlw scandals arn simply not on th<' sanw Sl'al<' of Watnrgatn and tlw suhsnqtwnt 1Timns that omnrgnd from thP inv<~stigation. It was a porcnptive and rPI'n~shing take on tlw status ol' our nwdia and our n<'t~ds as a puhlir.. 
Woodward and ll1•rnstnin, ol' <:olii'SI\ an~ tlw two famous Washington Post l'l~portnrs who liiii'OVPnHI tl11~ ini­tial misdnalings of th<~ White llous1~ that took place hPI'orn. during. and al't ~~ r t h P I 1) 7 2 WatPrgatn brnak­in. 
Thnir hook. "All tlw l'n~sidont's Mnn," told tlw story ol' how tlwy inr.itnd a grand-jury invostigation and nvnntually an indepPmlent prosnr.utor to nxamitw thn Nixon administration's corrupt prac­lic<~s. Tlw book is writt<•n in journalistie fashion -with little to no editorial eom­nwnts and a lack ol' overt nwlodrama. It simply tolls tlw story of tlw stops that tlw rnportt~rs took without much l'lwtoric. 
Alan Pakula's l'ilm version takes a similar approach to tell one ol' tho most intriguing accounts of abust~ of' power in all of history. 
Hobert Hedl'ord is Woodward and Dustin llol'f'man is Bt~rnstein. These <u·tors allow Llw vinwer to get a lnw feel for tlw nature of invnstigatiw reporting. 
For examplt~. tlwy portray the long 
hours that one spends going through rtH'.ords to l'ind one possible hint that will get people to talk, as well as to take precautionary measun~s that a big­nanw. wnll-reputnd paper like the Washington l'oslmust lake bel'orn print­ing a pot<mlially eruptive story. 
HedliJI'(I and lloll'man do a lim~ job ol' giving thnir rharaet<~rs a c<~rtain eool­nnss and pationeo that is ne('.essary for a porson who holds such a position and is n~sponsiblo for such a story. 
.Jason Bobards. who plays B1~n Bracllne -tlw mlitor a step down from tlw editor-in-ehiel'-is ultimately rnsponsible for the <:redibility of the paper. lie deserves the highlight perfor­numee because of' his masterful screen presence that elicits a potential for an explosion that would light up the screen and bring the movie alivo oven without the drama of Watergate itself'. 
AI though the lilm could not use the same degree of dt~Lail that the book does. Pakula does a marvelous job of keeping an extraordinarily complex story rnl­atively easy to fol­low. 
And still, he does not insult the audi­enee's intelligence 
by spelling everything out immediatnly. The audience is asked to make emmec­lions thmnselves while not being left in the dark as to the large-seale implica­tions of such a story. 
"All the President's Men," though, embodies a greater valun today than in 1976 when it was first released. It sBrvos as a reminder and model to jour­nalists today that the profession, espe­cially investigative reporting. exceeds a superlidal arena for mere exploitation. It should be an admirable and responsi­blt~ job in whieh the dignity of the story comes first, rather than the need for personal fame. 
"All tho President's Men" inspires peo­ple to remember that the public most importantly has a right.to know the truth. 

• CHART-TOPPERS 

Movie Title/(Gross Sales} 1 ' Rush Hour($21. 1 million) 
2. 
Ronin ($13.0 million) 

3. 
Urban Legend ($11 .0 million) t4. One True Thing ($4. 5 million) t4. There's Something About Mary ($4. 5 million) 


6. 
Simon Birch ($2. 7 million) 

7. 
Saving Private Ryan ($2.6 million) 

8. 
Rounders ($2.5 million) 

9. 
Blade ($2.0 million) 

10. 
Ever After ($1 .2 million) 


Source: AP Online 
Video Title 
1. 
Titanic 

2. 
The Wedding Singer 

3. 
jackie Brown 

4. 
The Big Lebowski 

5. 
Good Will Hunting 

6. 
U.S. Marshals 

7. 
The Apostle 

8. 
Wag the Dog 

9. 
The Man in the Iron Mask 

10. 
Wild Things 


Source: Billboard Online 

Video Title 
1. 
Titanic 

2. 
jerry Springer -Too Hot For TV! 

3. 
Pocahontas II: journey To A New World 

4. 
Playboy's Playmates Revisited 

5. 
The Exorcist -25th Anniversery Special Edition 

6. 
Spice World 

7. 
As Good As It Gets 

8. 
Austin Powers 

9. 
Backstreet Boys: All Access Video 

10. 
Boogie Nights 


Source: Billboard Online 
.. 


At the theaters 
What Dreams May Come True (October 2) 
Antz (October 2) 
A Night at the Roxbury (October 2) 

Source: Hollywood.com 
At the video store 
The Object of My Affection (September 29) 
Paulie (September 29) 
The Spanish Prisoner (September 29) 


~---~--~.----­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 28, 1998 
Vikings' Fuller intercepts for second-half victory 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Forget Hobert Smith and Randy Moss' touchdown receptions. Cornerback Corey Puller had the biggest catch of the day for the Minnesota Vikings. 
Fuller intercepted what would have been a touch­down. and Moss and Cris Carter had TD receptions in the second half Sunday as.the Vikings (4-0) rallied for a 31-28 victory over the Chicago Bears. Smith. a running back also had a 67-yard catch for a score. 
Moss and Carter have four TD receptions each this in the first half. Engram caught TD passes of 33 and 4 yards, and Penn caught a 23-yard scoring pass as the 
Bears took a 21-10 halftime lead. 
Steelers 13, Seahawks 10 
Jerome Bettis got an apology and what he wanted even more -the ball. 
Bettis, a forgotten man the week before in one of Pittsburgh's worst losses ever unde1· Bill Cowher, got the Steelers back to what they do best by running for ting the ball back in the final seven minutes with a chance to tie or win. Todd Peterson missed a potential tying 52-yard field goal into a swirling wind with 4:38 left and 41-year-old Warren Moon, who made his first start against Pittsburgh 14 years ago, twice overthrew an open Joey Galloway on potential scoring plays. 
Moon was 14-of-27 for 183 yards with his first inter­ception in four games. Galloway acr:ounting for all but 44 of the passing yards with seven catches for 139 yards. 
The Seahawks constantly pressured Steelcrs quarter­
back Kordell Stewart, who was ineffective for the 
vear. 
fourth game in a row by throwing for only 108 · Both Minnesota's Handall Cunningham and yards. But, unlikfl Pittsburgh's defense, they never Chicago's Erik Kramer had four TD passes. could force a potential game-altering turnover or Cunningham finished 16-of-25 for 275 yards. make a momentum-altering play. Kramer was 25-of-29 for 372 yards. Chicago's Cowher was so upset with his offense -and, it Bobby Engram caught six passes for 123 yards. seemed, the play-calling-in a 21-0 loss to Miami It was yet another second-half collapse for the last week that he ordered offensive coordinator Bears (0-4). who have led at halftime in all their Hay Sherman to open up the offens1~ more and get games. They blew a 15-point halftime lead last the ball to Bettis. week at Tampa Bay. Sherman, the former Vikings quart1~rbacks coach 
Hyan Wetnight's 19-yard catch with 1:53 left cut who took over Pittsburgh's.ofl'ensc from Cowboys Minnesota's lead to three, but the Bears blew the coach Chan Gailey, even took the unusual step of onside kick wlwn Chris Penn tipped it and it rolled personally apologizing to Bettis, who was twice out of bounds. Minnesota got the ball its 43. held to fewer than 50 yards in the first three games 
Chicago had a 21-17 lead and looked like it was after rushing for 1,665 yards last season. going to add to it. Kramer moved the Bears to the He has never gone consecutive games in Minnesota 10 and had a wide-open Fabien Bownes Pittsburgh without running for 1 00 yards. in the right corner of the end zone. But Fuller ran in This time, Bettis had six carries in the Steelers' front of Bownes just as he was about to catch the first 10 plays and went over 100 yards for thll 33rd ball and tipped it away. time in his six-year career and the 23rd timll with 
Fuller bobbled the ball several times before finally Pittsburgh by early in tlHl third quarter. controling it at the 6. He ran for 26 yards and prob­With Stewart effectively contained except for a ably would have had a touchdown, but Casey few rollouts, the Steelflrs neflded every Bettis yard Wiegmann tackled him at the 32. to avoid their first regular-season home loss since 
The Vikings got another break three plays later their season opener last year against Dallas. on Smith's16-yard reception when the Bears also But they again wasted scoring chance aft!lr scor­were called for holding. ing chance as three Seattle fumbles, two by l'ull­
After Jake Heed caught a 10-yard pass at the back Mack Strong in the first 35 minutns, led only Chicago 35, Cunningham double-pumped under to Norm Johnson's 32-yard field goal. 
heavy pressure, then heaved a pass to the right cor­ner of the end zone. It fell right into Carter's hands to make it 24-21. 
Moss' 44-yard reception gave Minnesota a 31-21 lead with 10:13 left. 
David Palmer started the Vikings' comeback, catching a punt at his 13 and zig-zagging halfway down the field. He probably would have scored, but he collided with teammate Ton·ian Gray at the Chicago 33. Cunningham connected with Andrew Glover for the 19-yard score, cutting Chicago's lead to 21-17. 
It was the Chicago receivers that did all of the damage 138 yards in a defense-dominated 13-10 victory Sunday over the Seattle Seahawks. 
Seattle (3-1), one of the NFL's surprise teams so far, couldn't overcome Bettis' big day, four turnovers or a suddenly ineffective running game as they were denied the first 4-0 start in franchise history. 
The Seahawks entered as the AFC's leading rushing offense with a 158.3 yards per game average, but were held to 61 rushing yards-only 47 by Ricky Watters­by what was the NFL's best rushing defense last season. 
But the Seahawks didn't lack opportunities, twice get-
Seattle took its only load at 7-3 on Moon's 14­yard scoring pass to tight end Christian Fauria early in the second quarter to finish off a 72-yard highlighted by Moon's 40-yard completion to Galloway. 
But the Steelers (3-1) responded with their only impressive drive, a 14-play, 82-yard drive completed when rookie fullback Chris Fuamatu-Ma'afala took Stewart's surprise pitchout from the shotgun to score untouched on a second-and-10 play to put Pittsburgh up 10-7. 
After that, the two tnams managed only a field goal apiece in the second half. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall . Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must bo; prepaid. The charge 
is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for coment without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES Early Spring Break Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches, Nightlife! Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!1998 BBB Award Winner!springbreaktravel.com 1·800-678-6386 "OWN A BMW" Earn $$ While you Learn 247-0736 f LOST & FOUND I Gitano antique gold & brown glass­es found in grass outside of O'Shag. Claim at Lost & Found in O'Shag.  • Acapulco·Bahamas Cruise·Fiorida•south Padre Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs.Lowest price Guaranteed. Call now for details! www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411 NANNY FOR WEEKDAY AFTER­NOONS NEEDED TO WATCH BOY & INFANT GIRL IN GRANGER. 277-9969. ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married ND Alumni cou­ple, with adopted 3 year old daugh­ter, wants to shower a new baby with love.Artistic full-time mom,ath­letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with.Friends on the swingset,trips to the zoo, grandma, play groups,lulla­bies,too.This is a home where wish­es come true.We'd like to call to get to know you.Call Shawn & Meg 800-767­4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp. paid.  $115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road,Exit #107, 1-800­418-9487. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info: http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 219-291-7153. RENT ROOMS 237-1919 5 rooms for rent football weekends, located 2 miles off cam­pus.277 -8340 Lg 2BR apt, 4 blks from NO. $475/ mo. 234-8017. FOR SALE  ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674~7645 ND Footbaii~Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232·2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Always buying and selling N D foot­ball tickets. 289·8048 I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby broth­er and his friend (a prospective). If you can help me, please call 4­0562. Ask for Michelle. BUYING N.D. TICKETS "'"'"""" ALL GAMES... 277-1659  Need a babysitter during the games? Call SHANNON @ 284-4451 so, mark-bet you didn't expect the party to end with my janet reno impression, huh? at least we were able to fit in indul~ gence i definitly like the goatee better uncle mark-sorry i missed you. brent-how's the pact? the twitch is catching, eh diane? it just manifests itself in different ways? hiltz· glad to see you back at work. i missed you .... Birthday Message for Birthday Girl: THE OBSERVER WISHES ERICA THESING A VERY JIGGY BIRTH· DAY!!!!!!!!!  JP -I don't think vandy cheers are going to catch on here. • Colleen M., I'd appreciate it if you'd stop calling me and hanging up in the middle of the night. I know it's you ... I have caller I.D_ But the funny thing is, Bill, Colleen may not be here tonight but I am. So here goes: Colleen only called you to ask why you still listen to lionel richie and stevie wonder eight tracks? we've all been wondering. Sorry, i won't be too mean consid­ering you were very helpful tonight. I am almost done and it is only 2:14 a.m. Wow-ee. We are good. Marie -ahh! those wonderful mem­ories from Cushing. It's a lovely place to spend a Friday night at 3 a.m.  
- LOST-BEAR-SHAPED SILVER PIN w/TUROUOISE. PLEASE CALL 273-9695. Lost on 8/28. WANTED ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... "TAKE 2" 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 SALES and ...EARN $$$$. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, Padre!Lowest prices!Free Meals,Parties & Drinks. "Limited Offer". 1800-426­771 0/www .sunsplashtours.com I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" !­shirts for me and my dad. If you sell them or have a few extra, please help me out. Call Michelle at 4­0562. SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun·Nassau· Jamaica "Mazatlan  MOLLY MCGUIRE'S COFFEE HOUSE is now hiring.Opens in 2 wks.Ask for Karen. P.S. The black goo is gone! SPRINGBREAK Cancun, Florida, Etc. Best Hotels,Parties,Prices.Book Early and Save!! Earn Money + Free Trips!Campus Reps/Organizations Wanted. Inter-Campus Programs 1·800-327-6013 www.icpt.com FOR RENT 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 That Pretty Place. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths.$80­ Live! Phish Box set 8 COs, import~ ed from Italy. Not available in U.S. Call Pete@ 251-0178 PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 TICKETS I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272·6306 TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258·1111 No student tickets please FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 WANTED ND FOOTBALL TIX 271­1526  FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS ALL GAMES 272-7233 .......... . Have 2 LSU tix,will trade for 2 STANFORD.277-8340 HELP!! I need TWO tickets to the STANFORD game. Call me (Amy) at 243-024 7. For Sale 3 Stud GA's tor sale. B/0 Call4-1124 Need 4 Stanford GAs x3501 Eric SASE:Brenda Horton,Dept.O,POB 83461, LA,CA 90083  If your teeth resemble Roman columns, the porch of a southern plantation or the front of the White House, you might be ... well, you know the answer if you are a cool one. Once we make the tape, everyone will want one. We might wind up on infomercials_ Just dream of the glory. Biblical knowledge is a very good thing. I think the tape we're making is going to supply a lot of lsiah, chap. 34, verse 16. Can I xerox Ezekial? Thanks for let­ting me borrow Genesis. I can think of two prime candidates for dental work. LF, HR, AM, JP-I think we can all agree that Yankee hugs are pretty frightening. -Finn  to the t.c. freak: my friend does NOT have flabby arms!!! Those wonderful walks.back from t.c. i'm not a stalker. if you thought we were whining before you should have been here when the fire alarm went off TWICE!I!II!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The Big 1 0 is so important. Look at Saturday's game, for instance. I could sure go lor some putrid, 200 degree stir fry juice. hey, i think i'll just get a ladel and head on over to the sports desk! They have plenty. Mmmm .... mmm ... mmm. To the infamous stalker: you know who you are. you know we don't like you. please heed my advice next time and do NOT make per~ sonal calls or visits to the office!~  


Monday, September 28, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MAJOB lEAGUE BASEBAlL 
-

Braves elilllinate Mets frolll National League playoffs 

of grooving a 3-2 fastball to Greg Maddux, one of the best· hitting pitchers in the league. 
Maddux, who hit .240 this season. slammBd a drive to the wall in center for an HBI double. 
After Walt Weiss' single, Keith Lockhart made it 4-0 with a two-run double to the gap in right-center. 
Chipper .Jones then blooped a hit just behind shortstop that a diving Rny Ordonez failed to snare. Ordonez quickly grabbed the ball and jumped to his feet, but seemed startled to see Lockhart was trying to score all thn way from second. Ordonez's throw sailnd over Piazza's head for an error while the runner slid across the plate. 
The Mets bunehed tognther three straight hits in the third, including John Olerud's HBI single, but their frustration was epitomized the following inning when Atlanta came up with two defensive plays. 
On a slow roller by Carlos Baerga, Chipper Jones swooped in from third, bare­handed the ball and barely beat the runner with the throw to first. 
Then, Hey Ordonez hit a grounder doep in the bolo that was backhandod by shortstop Ozzie Guillen, who skipped a throw just ahead of a head­first slide by the Mets short­stop. 
Maddux (18-9), who had lost 
his tirst three September deci­
sions, avoidod having his first 
winless month since .June 
1990, allowing five hits and a 
run in six innings. 
Watch the game on our new 56 inch BIG SCREEN! 

Associated Press 
ATI.ANTA 

A disastrous final wnek for the Nnw York Mets nndml with a misnrabil~ last day. 
The Mnts. who had a one-game lead in the NL wild-card race going into their tinal five games, were eliminated from the playoffs Sunday with a 7-2 loss to the Atlanta Braves. 
Contending for their first postseason appearance since 
1988, the Mets bombed out, going 0-5 and scoring just seven runs in their last 44 innings. 
New York, which dropped out of a three-way tic by los­ing 4-0 Saturday, began 


Because you can't watch cable in the bathroom. 
ESPN The Magazine-a convenient, portable version of the excitement and attitude of ESPN. 
Get 28 Issues of ESPN The Magazine for only $131 That's a savings of 83% off the newsstand price. 
To order your subscription today, use the attached coupon or call 1-888-335-ESPN. 
,---------------_____, ...._...~. 
: STUDENT SAVINGS Certificate 
I Please send me ESPN The Magazine at the special student rate of 26 Issues for $13. (Wow, that's only 50 cents an Issue!) 
Name________________________________0 Payment Enclosed 
Address-----------------------------
OBiiiMe 
City________State ______ Zip._____ 
Mall to: ESPN The Magazine P.O. Box 37325 Boone, lA 50037·0328 ISBJBMA I 
'-------------------------------------.___ __, 
Sunday one game behind Chicago and San Francisco, needing a victory over the Braves and losses by both the Cubs and Giants to force a three-way playoff. 
Atlanta, which has won seven straight division titles, quickly ended that illusion with a four-run second inning. 
Unlike the Mets, who wasted numerous chances during the three-game sweep, the Braves scored their first six runs with two-outs hits and went on to their team-record 106th win. 
They open the playoffs Wednesday against either the Cubs or Giants. 
Over the final week, New York was shut out twice. During three days in Atlanta, the Mets stranded 32 runners -11 on Sunday -and left the bases loaded four times. 
After falling behind 5-0, the Mets closed to 5-2 in the sev­enth and had the tying run at the plate with one out. But Mike Piazza -who stranded 15 runners in the series ­struck out against Dennis Martinez. Brian McRae went down swinging against John Hocker. 
Atlanta sealed the victory with RBI doubles by Eddie Perez in the seventh and Chipper Jones in the eighth. 
The Braves pounded Mets 
starter Armando Reynosa (7­
3), who lasted only 1 2-3 
innings and gave up five runs 
and six hits. Andres Galarraga 
had an RBI double in the first 
before Atlanta broke it open 
with a flurry of two-out hits in 
the second. 
Reynosa made the mistake 
525 N. Hill 233-8505 
Hosted by Irish Connection's 


Free cigars and hot dogs while they last! 
Doors open at 7:00pm 
ICON has SPECIALS every night to fit every budget 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 28, 1998 
• MAJDH LEAGUE BASEBALL

-
McGwire ends season in fashion with two blasts 
Associated Press 
ST.LOUIS 
Mark McGwire ended his record-smashing season as mightily as he started it. 
McGwire hit his 69th and 70th homers on the season's last day, a fitting finale for a year he began with a grand slam on opening day. 
"This is a season I will never, ever forget, and I hope nobody in baseball ever forgets it," McGwire told the cheering crowd after the game. 
Big Mac, who hit five homers on the final weekend, connect­ed against Montreal rookie Mike Thurman in the third inning Sunday. 
Then he homered off of Carl Pavano for No. 70 in the sev­enth. 
McGwire moved four ahead of Sammy Sosa and ended nine ­nine! -in front of Roger Maris' old record. 
Big Mac hit a 1-1 fastball 377 feet into the left-field seats at 2:10p.m. COT for No. 69. 
After stomping on home plate. he took a few slow steps, then made several salutes to the crowd. 
The usual sellout crowd that had stood well before his at-bat demanded and got not one, but two, curtain calls. 
Kerry Woodson, a 22-year-old body shop worker from Maryland Heights, Mo., wound up with the ball and said he didn't know what he would do with it. 
"I reached up, closed my eyes, and it landed in my glove," Woodson said. "It's a dream come true. I hope he doesn't hit any more today." 
He didn't get his wish. 
With two on and two outs in the seventh and the score 3-all, he connected off Pavano (6-9), lining a first-pitch fastball 370 feet over the left-field wall at 
3:19 p.m.. sending the Cardinals on to a 6-3 win over the Expos. 
This time, even a curtain call from McGwire didn't quiet the 46,110 fans, who remained on 
their feet. Across town, the homer cost In 206 career games with the They cheered even as 
Brian P--------------------------------------,Jordan took a called third 
strike for the third out of the inning. , 
The second home run ball landed in a party box and was snared by Phil Ozerski of Olivette, Mo., attending the game with a group of Washington University research lab scientists. 
McGwire, who has 10 multi­homer games this year and 53 in his career, hit a go-ahead homer for the 24th time this season. 
He opened the year with a slam on March 31 against the Dodgers' Ramon Martinez. 
He then led the home run race all season except when Sosa twice passed him briefly -and then for only 103 min­utes in all. 
Sosa led for 58 minutes on Aug. 19 before McGwire regained went back ahead with his 48th and 49th homers in the same game at Chicago. 
Sosa led for 45 minutes on Friday when he hit his 66th before McGwire answered. 
Sunday was the Cardinals' final game of the season. 
Sosa's Cubs, who played at Houston, did not know if their regular season would end or if there would be a playoff game for the NL wild-card spot. 
Before connecting Friday, McGwire had been homerless in 14 at-bats. 
the Rams a 5-yard penalty. 
A huge cheer spread through the Trans World Dome late in the third quarter as the Rams faced a third down just inside Arizona territory. 
The sudden uproar seemed to disrupt the play calling, leading to an illegal motion penalty. 
McGwire drew his NL record 162nd walk, tying Ted Williams (194 7 and 1949) for the second­highest total in major-league history, on a pitch that nearly beaned him in the fifth. 
Thurman threw the last three balls way inside and was booed vociferously after ball four. 
McGwire has 180 homers the last three seasons. 
Cardinals, he has 94 homers, 189 RB!s and 205 walks. 
At Busch Stadium, he has 51 homers and 102 RB!s inl06 games. 
The distances of his homers is 29,598 feet, nearly 400 feet higher than the peak of Mount Everest. 
It's also 5.6 miles of homers. 
Check The Observer sports section daily for your home team's chances in the playoff race. 


The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit. It's so delicious, it just might turn you into a morning person. 
Our fresh-baked biscuit topped with sizzling sausage, egg and mrlrNl chPPsP trisrPs so good, it's enough to make anybody happy in the morning. Ifonly getting through the rest of the day was as easy. 
(AI part1crpatmq restaurants Durrng breakfast hours only.) 
t~~'}::J8 B11•Qer K•ng Corporat•Ot• 
The Huddle · Lafortune Studenl C.rter 
BURGER 
KING It just tastes better. 
Burg~r K1ng C·Jtpora!.on •f. the e:~~ChiSIVC hce:\SC!;! ollhe rcg•sterca Bun Hi~lves togo lrii~Of\mark 
r  ------------­ ,  
I I  The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit for just 99 cents  I I  
I  Present coupon before ordering. Limit one per customer. Not to be used with other coupons or offers. Void where prohibited by law. Cash value 1/100¢. State sales tax applicable. Good only at participating restaurants L.aFortuneStudentCenter  I  
I  Expires  10/8198  . ©1998 Burger King Corporation.  ~ It just tastes better. rr..:J~  I  

L 
LaFortune Student Center 
.J 

Monday, September 28, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
--~--~----------------------------------~~~~~~--------------------------~~­
-
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll. 


"THE BEST WAY TO GET THE MOST OUT OF A STAFF IS TO GIVE PEOPLE FULL RESPONSIBILITY. "1 
--~ Peter Lynch Fidelity Investments Career Opportunities in Equity Research at Fidelity Management & Research Company. 

In the world of money and markets, Equity Research opponunities at Fidelity are among the most desirable anywhere. Why? Because no one gives first-year Associates the responsibility and independence to make significant investment decisions like we do. We seek people who are highly motivated, take initiative, and work well under pressure. And whether your background is in English, Engineering, or Business, an avid interest and intellectual curiosity about the stock market is what we look for in all candidates. While you will enjoy a high degree of autonomy, you won't have to go it alone. Many of the brightest minds and best resources in the industry are in place to suppon you, along with instant access to the most powerful research capabilities available. So before you make a decision on your investment career, invest some time with us. 
Hear how a career at Fidelity in Boston rivals anything you could ever find on Wall Street. We'll be coming to your campus soon. 
MAKE THE RIGHT INVESTMENT IN YOUR FUWRE. 
INFORMATION SESSION: Equity Research Associates Notre Dame University Wednesday, September 30th, 7:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education, Room 112 If you are unable to attend, please forward your resume via Career Services or e-mail it to janette.harrington@fmr.com. 
Fidelity Investments is committed to creating a diversified environment and proud to be an equal opponunity employer. 

WHiRl 12 MILLION INVISTOIS PUT THIIR TRUST.• 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The llouston Astros made sun~ tlwy wen~ the only ones cniPbrating in thn Astrodome on Sunday. And they got a litlle revenge too. 
Hemembering that Chicago knoeked them out of the NL wild-eard race in 1995, the Astros rallied to win 4-3 in 11 innings, foreing the Cubs into a playoff for the NL wild-card playoff spot. 
"It might have been revenge but mainly, we didn't want any­body to <:linch against us," Astros piteher Mike llampton said. '1You never want to let the other team celebrate in your own park." 
The Cubs carried a 3-1 lead into the eighth inning, hoping to get into Llw playoffs for the first time sineo 1989. But Houston, playing its regular lineup for nearly tho entire game. eame baek. 
"At least they didn't get to cel­ebratn in front of us now," lirst baseman .Jeff Bagwell said. "Now they've got to play tomor­row." 
The Astros have 49 come-
THE BEST MINDS, THE BEST OPPORTUNITIES 
from-behind victories and 27 in their last at-bat, and their latest rally forced the Cubs to return to Wrigley Field Monday for a one-game playoff. 
"I think our players felt that in 1995 the Cubs practically gave blood to keep us out of the wild-card spot," manager Larry Dierker said. "They made sure we didn't go to the playolTs." 
The Astros also still had left­over adrenalin aftnr losing Saturday's game on a contro­versial eall for the final out. Dave Clark was called out run­ning to first base for trying to avoid the tag. 
"We felt we were going to beat them yesterday but we had a bad call," Carl Everett said. "'So this is revenge for us. We wanted to play the spoiler. They're going to have to win it at their own place now." 
The Astros had nothing left to play for other than their 102nd victory. They won the NL Central long ago and they already had clinched the home l'i~dd advantage in the l'irst 
. round of the playoffs against San Diego, beginning Tuesday in the Astrodome. 
Still, Dierker kept the starters 
in the game and kept trying to get the victory. 
"With NL president Leonard Coleman in attendancn, I think­we showed him that we gave our best effort not to give the wild-card to the Cubs," Dierk1~r said. 
The Astros wernn't just pleased that they kept the Cubs from getting into the playoffs. They were happy with the way they did it, coming from behind. They'd lost a little of tlwir edge since clinching their sflcond straight title. 
"This game delinit1~ly will help us keep up our intensity going into the playoll's." Dinrker said. 
Confidnnce blossomed with the victory, Evewtt said. 
"I played on a team that camn from bnhind a lot last year (Mots) but not as much as this team," Everett said. "It just shows how strong we are. We are capable of beating anybody we play if we play as good as we can. 
"When you come from behind like that it helps your confi­dence. You don't ever feel like you're out of it." 
The Astros closed out tlw reg­ular season like they've playNl most of the year. 
"Even when we don't play well for six-seven innings, we always have a chance to pull it out." Bill Spiers said. "We've done it enough this year that we sort of expect to do it. I'm sme it's on other teams minds, too." 
Hockics 9, Giants R 
If the Giants had held on to that seven-run lead, thny'd be in the playoffs. 
Instead. it's on to Chicago for a wild-card tiebrnaker against the Chicago Cubs on Monday night. 
Light-hitting Neili Perez hit a game-winning homer olT Hobb Non in the I I th inning Sunday as the Colorado Hockins stillnd San Francisco with a <J-S win, leaving the Giants and Cubs (89-73) tied for the wild-card lead aftnr 1(J2 games. 
San Francisco, which trailed the Cubs by live games with 10 days left in the season but closed with nine wins in 10 games, Jp,d the Hoekies 7-(J in the seventh inning bP-forn Vinny Castilla hit a two-run homer off Julian Tavarez. But the Giants carne right back in the eighth and tied it on Jeff Kent's solo homer off Pedro Astaeio. 
Perez then hit his ninth 
homnr, connecting on an 0-1 
pitch from Nen (7-7) leading oil' 
the bottom of the ninth. 
One year aftnr hitting .366 en route to the NL MVP award. Colorado's Larry Walker went 2-for-4 and won his first batting title with a .363 averago, ni1w points ahead of New York's John Olerud. 
Jerry Dipoto (3-4) pitched a scoreless ninth for the win. 
Trailing 7-0, Colorado scored six runs in thn lil'th. Pe1·ez hit a two-run triple and Larry Walker's RBI single chased starter Kirk Bueter. 
John Johnstone rnlieved and allowed a three-run homer to Todd Helton. his 25th of the season. 
San Francisco op1~ned a three-run lead in the third inning against Jamey Wright on Barry Bonds' HBI double and a two-run homer by .hw Carter. It was the :~96th homer for Carter. who is retiring after this season, his seventh since joining the Giants on July 23. 
San Francisco sent nine men to the plate in the fifth and scored four runs for a 7-0 lead. Bonds led o!l' with a triple and scored on Kent's double. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------' 


......-------------------------~-----------­
page 16 

-
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 28, 1998 Makinen. "She's a great goal scorer, she's fast, and she can finish."
W.Soccer 
Makinen, however, ear'ned the 
Tournament Offensive MVP honors.
continued from page 20 
The Irish offense amassed 52 shots this weekend, but only man­scored her first goal at 24:43 when aged six goals. 
she took a Jenny Streiffer pass and Heft and Makinen spoke about the put the ball in the lower left corner need to finish more of their oppor­
of the net for the game-winning 
tunities, but both were optimistic.
goal. 
"We're not scoring as many goals 
Heft's second of the afternoon 
as in years past, but the opportuni­came when Mia Sarkesian pass was ties are there," said Heft. 
intercepted by Wake's goalkeeper "That's something we definitelyErin Regan. However, Regan wasn't want to work on. I think we playedable to gain control of the ball and well. We had possession of most ofit went up into the air, where Heft the game. We didn't finish as wellthen headed it into the goal. 
as we would have liked, but we cre­She completed her hat trick when ated opportunities. I think we did a
Grubb played a corner kick to decent job this weekend," saidShannon Boxx who headed it to Makinen. "We're missed some
Heft who then volleyed it into the opportunities, but we're not frus­goal, giving the Irish a 3-0 win. 
trated. The goals will come. Three
"She was amazing," said 
Wa:.:. Street Forum 
Your opportunity to learn more about: 
•Investment Banking •Asset Management 
•Commercial Banking •Insurance 
•Careers for Business and Non-Business Majors 
Wednesday, October 7th, 1998 College of Business Administration 3:00-10:00 pm 
Open to all Students 
Dinner Tickets $5 On Sale: September 28th­October 2nd COBA 102 and O'Shaughnessy 
Advance Perchase Necessary 
For more information call: Professor John Affleck-Graves at 631-6370
Jenny Heft scored off an assist by Jenny Streiffer against Wake Forest. 




Advanced SCUBA -Classes begin Sept. 29. Previous certi­fication is required. For more information please contact Bill Archer at 1-5443. 
Domer Run -The annual Domer Run is scheduled for October 10 at 11 a.m. Race begins at Stepan Center. It is a 3 mile, 6 mile run and 2 mile walk. Pancake breakfast after the race. Register in advance at RecSports. It costs $6. Proceeds benefit the Catherine Peachey Foundation, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research. For more information, contact RecSports at 1-6100. 
One Night Badminton ­Sign-ups begin Sept.28 for the one night tournament. Singles and doubles divisions. The tournament will be held on October 9 at 6 p.m. at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. For more information, contact RecSports at 1-6100. 
Saint Mary's Track -Anyone interested in track and field should attend a meeting on October 6 at 8 p.m. in Angela Atheltic Facility on the campus of Saint Mary's College. 
Psychology 101: The Rorschach Test 

Pull up a couch. See the tomato? Then you're not only sane, but hungry as well. tlike Pavlov's dog when he heard the bell.) Good thing Fazoli's is nearby. 
Head on over for a Sampler Platter and unlimited free breadsticks when you dine in. You'd be crazy to pass it up. 

527/U US Route 33N, 277-4()()8, South Bend 317 W lv1cKinley, 255-2551, Mislurwakn 1248 Nnppa11ee Street, 262-9873, Elkhnrt 

--~------·--~----~-­

..----~~ ------------~.....----... 


-





RAN KINGS • UP NEXT FOR NO 
compiled from wire reports Monday, September 27, 1998 

• AP POLL  
1) Ohio State  3-0  1,737  
2) Nebraska  4-0  1,660  
3)Tennessee  3-0  1,544  
4) UCLA  2-0  1,538  
5) Kansas St.  4-0  1,503  
6) LSU  3-0  1,395  
7) Penn State  3-0  1,293  
8) Florida  3-1  1,275  

9) Florida State 3-1 1 '151 10) Virginia 4-0 1,069 11) Syracuse 2-1 1,050 12) Georgia 3-0 971 13) Wisconsin 4-0 885 14) Arizona 4-Q 823 15) Colorado 4-0 701 16) West Virginia 2-1 626 17) Oregon 4-0 613 18) Texas A&M 3-1 570 19) Virginia Tech 4-0 531 20) Washington 2-1 492 21) usc 3-1 294 22) Arkansas 3-0 226 23) (tie) Missouri 2-1 218 23) Notre Dame 2-1 218 25) Michigan 2-2 64 
• ESPN/COACHES' POLL 
1) Ohio State 3-0 1,528 2) Nebraska 4-0 1,491 3) Kansas St. 4-0 1,375 4) UCLA 2-0 1,342 5) Tennessee 3-0 1,341 6) LSU 3-0 1,229 7) Penn State 3-0 1 '121 8) Florida 3-1 1,095 9) Virginia 4-0 1,018 

10) Florida State 3-1 980 11) Syracuse 2-1 873 12) Georgia 3-0 864 13) Wisconsin 4-0 777 14) Arizona 4-0 693 15) Colorado 4-0 657 16) Virginia Tech 4-0 582 17) Oregon 4-0 522 17) West Virginia 2-1 522 19) Texas A&M 2-2 491 20) Washington 2-1 407 21) Missouri 2-1 200 22) usc 3-1 197 23) Notre Dame 2-1 151 24) Arkansas 3-0 130 25) Tulane 3-0 107 

WEDON'T 
FEEL ••• THAT WE EXECUTED AS WELL AS WE 
'' 
SHOULD HAVE." 
-STANFORD COACH T!'RON£ WILLINGHAM 
on his teams 63-28 loss to Oregon 
Oregon dominates in rout of Stanford 

Associaccd Press 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 
Tom Brady passnd for orw touchdown, ran for another, and Michigan's dcfc~nse earne up with live sncond-hall' sacks as thn Wolvnrines beat Mi-chigan Statn 29-17 in their Big Ten opPzwr Saturday. 
Anthony Thomas rushed 13 timc~s for <J7 yards, including a (,9-yard touchdown run for Michigan (2-2. J-(f Big Ten). Sndriek Irvin ran for 107 yards on 21 carrins for thn Spartans I 1-:~. 0-1 I who are 9-4-2 in l'.Ollf'Pl'PnCP OIWlWrS against Michigan. 
Brady, who complnted 15-of­26 passes with one interception. tossed a 5-yard touchdown pass to Tai Streets to put the Wolvnrines ahead for tlw first time at 17-I 0 with (>:5S remaining in the second quartnr. Michigan lnd the rest of the way. 
Bill Burke. who completed 17-of-33 for 15S yards with llliP intnn:nption, threw a 12­yard touchdown pass to Plaxico Burrnss to give the Spartans a I0-3 lnad with 5:44 lnf't in the lirst quarter. 
.Jay Fndy kicked liold goals of' 
51. 45 and :HI yards for Michigan. Paul Edinger kickml a 4:~-yardnr for the Spartans, but missed two otlwr attempts. 
Miehigan's dnf'ense, which had yil'ldnd over 400 yards in ~~ach of its last two games. held i.lw Spartans to 26S yards and kept. them scoreless in the second half. Nate Miller had two of tlw sa1:ks for Michigan. 
Tlw Wolvc~rinns, nwanwhilcl, rolled up 414 yards against Michigan State. 
The Spartans, who had no pnnaltins in the lirst hall'. also hurt thems11Ives with eight for a loss of 57 yard in the second hall'. 
Michigan made a myriad 
Associated Press 
EUGENE, Ore. 
Putting Heubon Droughns back into tho lineup is likcl adding boostnr onginos to Orogon's high-powered offnns1l. 
Droughns, coming back from a foot injury that sidelined him for most of the last two games, rushed for 214 yards and three touehdowns and Akili Smith threw for four first-half touchdowns as No. 20 Oregon put on another impressivn of'l'ensive display to beat Stanford 63-28. 
Droughns ran for second-half touchdowns of I, 67 and 40 yards and became the first player in Oregon history to rush for 200 yards twice in a season. The junior transfer ran for 202 yards and scored three TDs in a season-opening 48-14 victory over Michigan State. He sprained his right ankle in the 
Wolverine defense boosts team to win 
Oregon 
T h e {4-0, 1-0 Ducks l'ac-10) had lost piled up their last 664 yards three to in offense, t h e three shy Cardinal of the and six school of seven, record set b u t against smith BYU in a n d 1 9 8 9 . Oregon's Oregon receivers scored its most points ever in were too much this time. a Pac-10 game and the most Smith completed 18-of-29 overall since a 97-0 defeat of passes for 357 yards, 313 in 

mistakes, yet still led 20-17 at halftime. The miscues included an interception on the third play of the game, a fumbled kiekol'f, the drop or an easy interception with nothing but opPn field in sight, and a fumbled punt. 
The Wolverines also were guilty of sloppy tackling in the early going. Fmm a third-and-5 situation at the Michigan State 31, Burke du.mped ofT a pass to Garett Gould looping out of the backfield. It appeared he would bP dropped for a loss, but Gould broke three tackles for a 7­yard gain that kept tho drive alive. 
Two plays later Irvin broke a 40-yard run and shortly after that Burke hit Burrnss for the scorn. 
The Wolverines answered with 20 unanswernd points for a 20-10 lead unci appeurnd ready to take control of the gamn until .James Whitloy fumbled a punt which thn Spartans' Aric Morris recovered at tlw Miehigan 34 yard line. 
Seven plays later Burke dove in from I yard out with 48 s1~eonds left in tho second quarter and the Spartans were right back in it, trailing by just three points. 
The Spartans weren't without mistakes, either. Edinger missed field goal attnmpts of 39 and 44 yards, Burmss gave up a fumble that led to a Michigan field goal, and Burke tossed an 
the first half. lie also threw four first-half TDs against Michigan State. 
Damon Griffin caught five passes for 1 I R yards and two touchdowns. Jed Weaver addcld five reeeptions for 84 yards and a TD. 
Oregon led 42-21 at the half. but committed turnovers on its first two possessions of the third quarter. Stanford eoulcln't eapitalize, and Droughns put the game away with a 1-yarcl dive over the goal line to put the Ducks ahead 49-21 with 3:21 left in the quarter. 
"We· had a great deal of respect for him," Stanford coach Tyrone Willingham said. "We don't feel like, even with his skill and ability, that we executed as well as we should have." 
Oregon, averaging 50.5 points per game, is off to a 4-0 start for the first time since 1988 and only the third time since 1964. 
soconcl quarter against UTEP 
tho following week and sat out 
last week's 58-3 victory over 
San Jose State. 
"I would say I'm about 90 percnnt right now," said Droughns, who had just.:H yards on seven earries at halftime. "At the beginning, it was kind of hard for me to get ·the euts and run hard. The coaches and teammates 
started telling me, 'Just run."' 
Willamette in 1916. It was the most points given up by the Cardinal {1-3, 0-2) since a 72-0 loss at UCLA in 1954. 
In a typically wild game, the teams eombined for 1,056 total yards, one year after combining for 1,1 08 yards in a 58-49 Stanford win. In the past six games between the schools, they have averaged 
74.3 points and 951 combined yards. 
The Observer/Kevin Oalum 
Michigan quarterback Tom Brady led the Wolverines back to the .500 mark and into the AP top 25 with a 29-17 win over intra-state rival Michigan State. 
interception deep in Michigan  bomb to Marcus Knight who  
territory.  was hauled down a yard short  
During one drive in the third quarter, the Spartans were  of the goal. On tlw zwxt play Brady snuck it in for the final  ...  
nagged three times for false  score 10:55 remaining.  
starts and onee for having 12  The Spartans havnn't won in  
men in the huddle. That drive,  Michigan Stadium sine!~ Oct.  
after 5:04, ended in a punt.  13, 1990, a controversial 28-27  
Early in the fourth quarter,  triumph  when  Desmond  
Brady completed 3-ol~3 for 79  lloward was trippnd in the end  
yards, including a 48-yard  zone on an extra-point try.  

e 
< ­
age 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 28, 1998 
P ------~------------------------------~----------------------------------~~~---------­
goal was his seventh in seven Irish failed to make any serious vietory. them all game." 
games, was marked from the attempts at scoring but were "We felt like we could beat Saturday's game ties the best
M. Soccer 
onset by the Red Storm able to keep the drives of' them," said Walton. "If they're showing that the Irish have 

-
continued from page 20 
"DefensivPly. we were pres­sured a great deal. we just wanted to give [Bocklage. Aris and Wells] a breather," said 
Berticelli. 
Also taking some time out of the game was Walton. The freshman forward, whose early 
defense, including a play in the second overtime that landed them a yellow card. 
The two overtime periods were again marked by excellent scoring chances by St. John's, including a shot in the first overtime by Pablo Bunda that beat Velho yet hit the crossbar and stayed out of the net. The 

The Observer/Brett Hogan 
Coming off an injury, Irish forward Ben Bocklage split his time Saturday between the bench and the field. 
Buscemi and Bunda from end-No. 7 [in the polls]. we should ever had against a St. John's ing the game in a Red Storm be No.8 because we hung with team that won the 1996 title. 
Umversity of Notte Dame 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
KELLOGG
ZI6 Hesburgh Center for IntematJonal Studies No~e Dame, Indiana USA 41iSS6·S677 INSTITUTE 
Cosponsored with The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 

Professor MART~~RRjfT,~~nG;~~7n'a Kroc Institutes, and Department of Government and International Studies, University of Notre Dame 
Professor GABOR TOKA, Visiting Fellow, Kellogg Institute, and Department of Political Science, Central European University 
Join us to discuss the present Russian situation. 

TheND Spon~ored By< Accounting & 
·(;~ 
,/'··: 
AT&T 
All Accounting and Finance Majors. Others also welcome. 
Dan Hesse-CEO of AT&T Wireless Services and ND Grad Class of 1976 

.-Joe McCabe, Financial Vice President of AT&T Consumer Markets Division October 1, 1998, 7:00pm 
.. 
Monogram Room 






Wednesday, September 23, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
-1'HA1"'5 rl I'M NEVER fJREAKI#(i PARIE/ALS AGAIN. J: c,ol /VO SLEEF:
Aftt•r mHTowl)' 
ANP MY CL(f(H£S F.E£ ~ 
l'St'apin~ the dorm 
OF SMOI<E. 
watdt, our hl'rocs t'ontinm· thl' qul'st for thl' wizard of 
ND. 

FOXTROT 
FiVE YEARS AGo I HADN'T 
EVEN HEARD oF ~ COMIC 
STRIP, AND NoW ITS EVERY· 
WliERE I LOOk. Booi<S ... 
CALENDAAS... oFFiCE SuPPt.Y 
ADS... HIS oWN ICE CREAM 
FLAVoR... NoW I READ ABouT 
AN UPCoMINu 
TV SERIES~ 
'-..: . " .J:\l/ 

DILBERT 
eV­
\.­
www.foxtrot com 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DAN SULLIVAN 
"'1'HAI's -roo BAD. "I SO/ff Or £ N.:P/Et:> /'1'( SlAY Iff FARLEY. 


55 Sneakers brand 
58 Made of certain twigs 61 Many a Miamian 62 Corporate 
routine 
63 1990's sitcom 
64 Name in the news, 615/68 
DOWN 
1 English pop group 
2 ·--· Mio" 3 Spurs 4lt's unfair s Year in Nero's 
reign 6 Poetic contraction 7 Out of the freezer 
&Home of Whitman College 
9 Squeezes (out) 
43 Cable choice 52 European resort 47 Short hair, to 53 Burlesque bit 
Burns 54 Munster Mister 49 "It'll be O.K." 55 Duos: Abbr. so The Bible 
56 Defendants at law before 57 Nail·biters: Abbr Joshua 59 Eur. carrier 
51 Asian palm 60 "Lord, is---?" 
Answers to any three clues in lhis puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 
Annual subscriplions are ava1lable for the best of Sunday crosswords from Ihe lasl 50 years: 1-888-?·ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
I CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Luke Perry, Daryl Hall, Jerome Robbins, Joan Cusack 
Happy Birthday: You'll have a lot on your plate this year, but if you are good at delegating work and you 
aren't too eager to try to do it all your­self, you will find it easy to accom­plish all that you set out to do. U you are stubborn and unwilling to share your burdens, you will find yourself getting run-down and unhappy about the way things are turning out. It's time to look out for yourself. Your numbers: 4, 10, 13, 22, 31, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your interest in learning will mount. Sign up for seminars or courses that offer enough versatility thai you won't get bored and quit. You need a new challenge. 00 
TAURUS (April 2G-May 20): New romantic interests will develop through events you attend. However, you must be careful not to damage your reputation. You mustn't let your personal life interfere with your productivity. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your frequent changes of mind will con­fuse others. Invite friends over for the 
, evening. You need to surround your­self with those who challenge your intellect. 000 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): A lit­tle home renovation is in order. You may want to get your place ready to put on the market. Residential moves 
· are not a bad idea. Check out different areas. 000 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): You're looking for love. You need to attend some prestigious functions that will bring you in contact with mates who have more to offer you. Your out-
Birthday Baby: You can have it all as long as you learn to balance the good 
and the bad. You must separate your personal and your professional life if you 
want to reach the level of satisfaction that you are looking for. You can be sue· · cessful if you learn how and when to say no. (Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialaslcom.) e 1998 Universal Press Syndicate 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
EUGENfA LAST 
going nature will attract a lot of attention. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Busy yourself with your chores today and then proceed to get out with friends who have similar interests. You will have a temper at an emotional level. Avoid arguments with your family. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): Get out and do those hobbies you enjoy. You will have both the desire and the for­titude to finish somelhing you may have started some time ago. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your health may suffer if you haven't taken care of yourself. Don't let minor ail· ments tum into major problems due to neglect. Your reluctance to accept defeat may cause fatigue. 00000 
SAGmARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You may be confused if you have 
more than one love interest. Talk to a 
good friend whom you trusl before 
you decide to get involved with more 
than one person. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Acceptance may be the key issue 
when dealing with the siluation 
you're facing. Self-deception may 
lead to problems with close friends or 
relatives. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Social events will be fun-filled. Keep 
your eyes peeled for that special per­
son. Romance is quite possible. Your 
electric eyes will attract others. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do 
your own duties and don't worry 
about other people's responsibilities. 
Don't be too hard on those you live 
with. Don't overspend on children or 
entertainment. 00000 
....... 
-
SAFERIDE TRAINING SESSION!! 
ATTENTION all potential saferide drivers! There will be a training session held on Tuesday, September 29, 1998 at 6:00p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Join the fun and get certified to drive the Saferide van!! 
PUTTING STUDENTS FIRST!! 
-
10Writer Anals 11 Hanoi festival 12Age: Abbr. 14 Cobbled 1s What each star 
represents 20 Uke the answers to this puzzle's 12 
italicized clues? 22 B 23 BBC's Italian 
counterpart 
24 Newsboy's cry 25 Assassinated 
26 Heigttof the N.B.A's Ghe01ghe Muresan 
28 Peer Gynl's mother 29 Even!I split 30 Open-eyed 31 "Catch-22" character 
34 StruM & White subject 36 Famiy member 38 Clip 41 Rubber 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Toiland trouble" 

preceder 7 Normal, in a way 13 TheN. Platte, e.g. 15 Less sound •16lncreaser of one's growth 
potential? nGifts 18 Pub supply 19 Garments for 
granny 21 Nintendo's 
Super-­22 Tito's homeland 24 Slalom segment 27 Like some 
arches 28 Car part 
E 
0 
0 
t:: 
Cll 
.c 
29 Taxonomic div. 32 Willingly 33 Composer 
Mahler 
35 "--Male War Bride" (1 949 movie) 
37 Sound units Abbr 39 Fin de-­(remainder). Fr. 40 Marinated beef 
strip 42 OHicial records 44Cape-­45 Some boxing 
wins 46 "The Thrill Is 
Gone" singer 48 "--out!" 49 Adriatic port so Typewriter key 53 Pieces 54 "Que-es?" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
HHi-=-1~.!::..,1~~::.!..\.~ HHH~2:.i-==4.::..j.~~ 
-.-.~~.::..j..::..j..!...l 
~.::.+~~::..J 
L.::...l.:..:..l:..:.L=-.L..:..J 
.... 



--~----~~-­
----~-----·-.----­

• McGwire ended his 
• Notre Dame defeated 
record-setting season in 
Purdue 31-30 Saturday 
fashion, hammering out 
thanks to last minute 
No. 69 and 70. 
heroics.
PORTS 
p.l4 see insert. 
Monday, September 28, 1998
page 20 OBSERVER 


Irish get down to business in weekend shutouts 
By BRIAN KESSLER kick to give the Irish a 1-0 Assistant Sports Editor advantage. Just 1:38 later, Jenny Heft 
It was business as usual for took a pass from sophomore the third-ranked Notre Dame Meotis Erikson and dribblod women's soccer team this through the IU backlinn. After weekend and once again, they beating the Hoosier dnfonders, got the job done. Ileft slid the ball into tiH~ left 
The Irish played host to this corner anft..the Irish found weekend's Irish Key Bank themselves ahead 2-0. Classic at Alumni Field and Makinen closed out the scor­picked up a pair of 3-0 victo­ing for the night at 79:08 when ries over Indiana and Wake she headed Grubb's corner Forest. kick to the far post just beyond 
"I think we played well for the reach of Ashley Davis, the the most part," said head coach Big Ten's best goalkeeper. Chris Petrucelli. "We've yet to On the evening, the Irish settle into a lineup and at some totaled 22 shots, while the point we're going to have to do Hoosiers managed just three. that. I think we're getting close IU has now dropped nine though. Once we set the lineup straight to the Irish women. then the team chemistry will Sunday's contest was much get better." of the same for the Irish; how­
Jenny 1-Iefi and Anne ever, this time it was tlw Jenny Makinen are sure to be part of Heft show. whatever lineup Petrucelli The sophomore put on an decides on. The two combined amazing offensive perfor­for all six of the Irish goals this mance, scoring all three of the weekend and helped Notre Irish goals despite missing Dame improve to 8-1 on the some early opportunities. season. "Jenny did a good job for us 
On Friday, Makinen scored today," said Petrucelii. "She two goals and Heft added one missed some chances early, but to lead the Irish over state rival made sure she didn't miss Indiana, 3-0. again. That's typical of her 
Both of Maiknen's goals came career. She's been good around off corner kicks from junior co­the goal." captain Jen Grubb. Makinen's lleft was good, indeed. She first strike came at 34:10 when she volleyed in Grubb's corner see W. SOCCER I page 1 6 


Notre Dame and St. John's knotted after double OT 

By ANTHONY BIANCO  of their first attacks, senior  past Popik and into the net.  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jimmy Buscemi broke away  Though that was all that got  
from defender Phil Murphy in  past either goalie, the game  
The winds gusted so power­ the box and drilled the first  was far from over between the  
fully Saturday night that it  shot of the game at Velho. He  two nets. The first period con­ 
seemed a storm was brewing.  stopped it, but not without  cluded with Velho making two  
But the Irish made sure noth­ keeping the ball in play, as a  diving saves and the Irish miss­ 
ing developed from that as they  breaking Stefani Miglioranzi  ing wide on two shots. Nothing,  
equalizfld the Hed Storm of St.  picked up the rebound and  even Velho's heroics in goal,  
John's to a 1-1 tie at Alumni  tapped a shot to the right cor­ could relieve Notre Dame's  
Field. Both of the goals came  ner of the goal at 43:33.  concerns over St. John's  
early in the game, and the rest  Despite the early setback, the  aggressive scoring machine.  
of the contest, which included  Irish weren't ready to let the  "St. John's is so good offen­ 
- two 15-minutc overtime peri­ods, was a quick-paced score­ Storm blow them down. After another St. John's attack on a  sively that in the back of your mind you always have to be  
less standoff.  similarly played ball as the pre­ playing a little bit of defense,"  
The game's early goals and  vious goal by Buscemi, the Irish  commented Velho. "Whenever  
the aggressive attack by both  went to the net hard and often.  its 1-1, and you're trying to  
teams set a high-scoring, offen­ Finishing drives on goal by  score the winning goal, you  
sive-minded tone to the game.  Irish attackers Hyan Cox,  want to score but in the same  
Before long, it was apparent  Shane Walton and Ben  time not get scored on. So  
that the match would be decid­ Bocklage gave the team five­ there's always a little bit of  
ed by the ability of both defens­ straight shots to Daniel Popik's  pressure to get back and play  
es to stop the opposing team's  net.  defense."  
fast drives to the net. Senior  "After the goal, we just held  This hesitation on attack  
goalkeeper Greg Velho came  our ground and our backfield  played a factor in the second  
up with 12 saves, including a  and just kr.pt in front of them,"  half, as the Red Storm drilled  
number of one-on-one and  said miclfielder Matt McNew on  eight shots to Notre Dame's  
breakaway attempts that would  Notre Dame's mindset after let­ two. Coach Berticelli switched  
have given St. John's the lead.  ting up the early goal. McNew  up the offense often in the  
"Greg Velho certainly came  scored his first goal of the sea­ game, giving players like  
up big time after time and put  son last week at Villanova to tie  Dustin Pridmore, Matt Rosso,  
his stamp on the game for us,"  the Irish at 1-1.  Antonio Bernal and Patrick  
- said head coach Mike Berticelli  This time around it would be  Williams time on the field. In  
following Velho's 12-save per­ Walton who would tie the game  exchange, starters Ben  
formance, which ties his career  up. Just 16 minutes after the  Bocklage, Andrew Aris and  
best. "We count on Greg to step  Miglioranzi goal, Walton  Scott Wells ~ all recently back  
up and win games for us or  chased after a pass from Cox at  from injuries ~ spent some  
keep us from losing games."  midfield that landed 20 yards  time on the bench Saturday  
It was a completely different  from the goal. A sprinting  night.  
situation early on as St. John's  Walton beat out midfielder  The Observer/Brett Hogan tie 
got on the board first. On one  Danny Parkin to take the ball  Ryan Cox outran a St. John's defender for the ball in Saturday's 1-1 see MEN'S SOCCER I page 18  

that went into double overtime. 
vs Stanford Volleyball
vs. Seton Hall 
Saturday, 1:30 p.m. vs. Albion College 
October 2, 8 p.m.
SPORTS 
II @ S::ct
$ ,, Wednesday, 6 p.m. 
vs. Butler 
Cross Country 
ATA 
\Sri October 2, 7:30 p.m . 
Notre Dame Invitational Soccer 
.·:::t ·::::;:.. 
at W. Michigan October 2, 3:30 p.m . vs. Manchester College 
S.:;;([
\ ;::rvt Tomorrow, 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 
• 


