¦ The new U2 album is out. Find out ifit is 
¦ Do the women who influence American busi'ness 
Wednesday

wonh your money. 
impact business students? 
NOVEMBER 
Scene• 12-13 

18, 1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 54 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Academic Council votes to send clause to Malloy 
Recent History of Sexual Orientation Issue at ND 
Ji.1rnlty St·natl' c11Is 011
Muy96 
offi£'l'rs of l Jnivl'rsily to add 11omlisl'rimlm1Uon dausc 
University adopts the Spirit
1\11!( 9 l 
of lndusion 

fr. David Garrick resigns
!Hur <Jll 
pmfl'ssorship in proH•.st of ND's homosexuality policy 
t'arnlty Senate rails for 
M.iy 9/l addit ion of scxua-1 orientation to 11011-disrriminalion clause 
Student Senate rnlls for s,,pl .9/J addition of sexual orientation to nun-discrimination clause 
i\.radrmie Counril votes to 
extend debate aml more thoroughly researrh the issue 
Ort 98 
Academic Council votes in favor of dausc, sends it to Fr.
rvo,· 9/l 
Malloy, who ean either reject 
thl' .unemlmenl or st•ncl it to 
till· Hoard ofTrustees 
ByTiM LOGAN 
Assist.mt News Editor 

Th11 arldition of s!ixual orientation to the Univ11rsity's logal non-discrimina­lio11 clause passed another major mile­slurw Tucsdav as tllf) Acadmnic Council, after signilicimt debate, voted in favor of I.Im amendment. 
Tho body voted 19-15, with two abstentions, to recom­mend tho diango. Now 
the decision lies in the in g so that moro dot.ailed
'ITHINK IT MIGHT BE A SIGN THAT WE ARE READY FOR
hauds of University prcsi­research could be demo on the den t Father Edward CHANGE ... THE MAJORITY OF PEOPLE THERE BELIEVED matter. Onn of the issues Malloy, who can either investigated since that mewling
THAT IT'S TIME TO ADD SEXUAL ORIENTATION TO THE NON-
reject the amendment or was the ways in which other send it rm to the Board of DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE.' universities have handlnd thn 
Trustees for final approval. The Board next meets in February. 

It is unclear whether or not Malloy will approve Urn measure. !Ir, made no indication of his intentions at the meeting, according to those present. 
"It's tough to see where it's going to go from herc,n said Frank Law, the Student Union Academic Delegate and a mmnber of the Academic Council. "But just by it going as far as it has, people can soc that it's an issue that needs to be discussed." 
The Council 'discussed the legal, theo­logical and moral angles of the issur in its closed nrnflLing yflstorrlay, according to rnemlrnrs of the group. The discus­sion focused primarily on the legal and pragmatic issues, especially how tlrn addition might affoct Notre Dame's freedom to follow Catholic teachings and lhc risks Involved in such a move. 
Ultimately, memb!~rs decided that the 
addition of' sexual orientation to their non-discrimination 
AVA PREACER 
clauses. 
ASS!STANT DEAN OF TllE COl,LEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
There am several Catholic 
risks were worth taking. 
"I think it might be a sign that we are ready for change," said council membnr Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "The major­ity of people there believed that it's time to add sexual orientation to the non-dis­crimination clause." 
Student leaders of the movement were happy with the decision, but 
stressed that the victory was not ynt 
WOii. 
"I think t.his shows tlw solidarity of the Notrn Damn community, and it calls us not to give up," said Lewis llall sena­tor Sophie Fortin. who co-authored tho Student Senate's resolution supporting tho change. "llut it isn"t a triumph yet. we just got one stnp clos<W. Thorn is still work to Im done." 
This dncision was postponml 
from the council's Oct.. 8 meet.­
universities which include 
legal protection basnd on sexu­al orientation, including Georgetown, St. Louis and Seattle Universities. Notrn Dame, however, would be ono of the lirst to do so voluntarily. 
"I think this is an opportunity for us, as a loading Catholic institution, to Im in the forefront on protecting pnople l"rom discrimination bascnl on their sexual orientation," said snnior Daniel Mullen, 
see CLAUSE I page 4 

SMC peace 
•


group 1s back 
By NORA KULWICK! New!-> Wrirt·r 
Till' l'cact>mak1~rs arn back. 
Aft.Pr an almost I !i-vear hiatus. tlw group of stud;mts, faculty and staff that com• r11itt.Pcf itsPlf' to social change 
through  ac11v1sm  has  
rdur1H•d  to  Saint Mary's  
campus.  

··1'1!ac1!mak111·s startcid Iagain I lrnca11s1! Iast fall I found out that a man was !wing l'Xl'l'lltNI in Mkhigan 
City," said !lolly Arends, on!' oi" Llw group's organizPrs. "I loach-d uµ some l'rionds and !H' Icl a vi g i I. 0 11 th n way had;, WP f'p It t.111' rH~Pd to procnss what wn had senn and rPalizt!d that tlwre was a 1w1:d on ram pus !'or a justice bmwd group.·• 
Thn group currnntly has about :io mnmlwrs and co11­li1111ns to grow. although ii 
¦ NEWS ANALYSIS 

AFP photo Iraqi soldiers celebrate the cooling-off of tensions between Iraq and the U.S. after Saddam Hussein agreed to allow weapons inspections. The rest of the world in waiting to see if whether Iraq is backing down or if they will fail to comply with weapons inspections. 
has not yet rnu,jvncl club sta­tus thrnu!{h the Collegn. But it PXpocls to bn rncogniznd 

Profs: World waits to see if Iraq will comply 
S O Ill (! ti IIW i11 ( IJ C 11 C X L fn W 
wcwks. accordin!{ to Arends. "ThPn\ am a lot nf socially conscious rwopln 011 campus.  By SHANNON GRADY News Writer  Now. the world is watch­ing and waiting tu see if Hussein will keep his  ger future attacks on Iraq. "This incident shouldn't surprise anyone," said visit­ instance of non-compliancn. Iraq was just tosting tho waters."  
Wn did not crciatn a co11c1\rn. w 1! ·rn ju,, t organ izi11 g it," /\ninds said. Thn l'!\aromaknrs havP an ambitious a.g1)11Cla. Thn group  Early Saturday morning, Saddam l-lussein narrowly avnrted airstrikes that r.ould have leveled his country's capital, Raghdad.  promise to stop impeding progress of U.N. weapons inspectors, or if backing down is simply another false alarm that could trig•  ing professor llichard Conroy. "There has been a consistent pattern in Iraq. They comply for a while, and then there is an  If Ilussein fails lo comply with weapons inspections, the consequPncns could hn dire for Iraqis. /\l'ter coming see IRAQ/ page 4  
see PEACE/ page 8  



page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


Whining made easy 
JI' you're a frequent ----D-u-st_i_n_F_e-rr_e..,ll~­rcader of the viewpointpagP in The Observer' Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
you've probably noticed the continuous flow of letters from the same studonts time and time again. Short of total outrage, nothing really motivates the average person to V.Tite in and express their views. 
Perhaps students are just complaCfrnt, or maybe they don't fancy themselves as writers. In any case, I have a feeling that all many of you need is a head start. 
Admittedly, I'm just an accounting major, and I doubt 1\llY of my columns are Pulitzer material. Norn!theless, I've discovered several helpful ingredients used by columnists and let­ter writers at Notre Uame. Here are several tips to aid you in writing your column or letter: 
Criticize the football team relentlessly. 
We're all aware of the fact that the football team hasn't won a national championship in 10 vears. Think about it! Mom and Dad aren't making large contributions to the University so you can say your football team played in the Wef'd-eater Bowl! Th/\refore, take an opportu­nity to express your outrage at the nerve of these guys for not playing in the Sugar Bowl twery year. Bdieve me, most students will share this common gripe with you. 
Criticize Jim Colletta relentlessly. 
You've heard the guy in the stands behind you shouting "Nice call Colletto!" every time the team snafus a play. In fact, no one openly supports the offensive coordinator. Students will gladly welcome your bashing since 90 per­cent of the student body thinks they can do a much better job. After all, some of them even played high school football. 
Now you'll probably be writing on something other than football, and the previous advice won't help out that much. There are, however, a couple of additional tips I can offer: 
Complain about the "lack of ciuility" in cam­pus debate. 
This tip proves very beneficial for students lacking any logical arguments, and prevents you from the burden of defending your stance. Take the moral high ground with anyone who disagrees with you, calling them "mean-spirit­ed" and "immature," or any big words you find in your thesaurus. See Rhonda Moore's bash­ing of Sean Vinck for a prime example. This will make readers like you, which should be your sole objective. 
Feature an "Insane Clown ofthe Week." 
This proverbial punching of your opposition provides humor as a method of captivating your readers. Thus, more people will read your article. Spencer Stefko is a prime example of a practicing clown-puncher, but you should refrain from using his title as shown above. Admittedly, this tip offers very little in the way of diplomacy. 
Make fun ofRight Reason. 
Everyone hates Right Reason. What right does Right Reason have to mention Church teachings to college students anyways? Regardless of subject matter in your column, use any of the following phrases when men­tioning Right Reason: evil, extremist, homopho­bic, hateful. mean, classless, etc. At no time will anyone expect you to defend these allega­tions or any others for that matter, nor will any relevance be required in your statements (again, see Rhonda Moore's letter}. Don't worry, your allies have the same problem defonding their potshots. Talk about relating to your readers! 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are lhose of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
¦ Tomw's STAFF 
News Scene 
Collet'n McCanhv Emmett Malloy Finn Pressly Dominic Caruso Chris Lawler Jenn Zatorski 
Lisa Maxbauer 

Graphics Sports Mark Higgins Kati Miller 
Production Viewpoint Kathleen O'Brien Eddie Llull 
Lab Tech Jeff Hsu 
lhe Observe, (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday ,Ii rough Friday cxcepf J~iring ex.01m anJ var.::irion period_,, The Ob.\ervcr is a memher of rhc A~sociaced Press. All rc:produc:tion rights arc reserved. 
Wednesday, November 18, 1998
The Observer• INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Raids continue for second weekend at University of Michigan 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
In a second weekend of campus party raids, Ann Arbor Police Department officers delivered 58 minor in µossession of alcohol cita­tions Friday at a Phi Kappa Psi fra­ternity party and two house parties. 
As part of an undercover opera­lion, AAPD officers handed out nine citations at the Phi Kappa Psi party, six of which were MIP citations, AAPD Sgt. Myron Blackwell said. They delivered seven citations at a house party at 1120 Oakland St. and 48 MlP citations at a house party at 426 Hill St. Citations wer,! given for false identification, supplying alco­hol to minors and hosting the party, Blackwell said. 
MPD did not conduct undercover operations on Saturday night. Phi Kappa Psi is the fourth fraternity targeted by AAPD officials in the pasi two weeks. In a similar opera­
¦ UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Prosecutors charge attacker 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. 
The 17-year-old Philadelphia boy arrested Thursday in connection with the November 8 attack on a female student in Steinberg-Dietrich Hall has been charged with attempted murder, as well as aggravated assault, robbery and several related counts, police said. The prosecutors' decision to charge the suspect with attempted murder was unexpected, according to University Police officials. Police officials, citing the relatively minor physical injuries the student suffered in the assault, had expected that the suspect would face only aggravated assault and other lesser charges. Because of the suspect's age, university police have declined to release anything but the most basic information about his arrest. Officials in the Juvenile Unit of the District Attorney's office, which pressed the charges, were not immediately available for comment. The student who was walking up a nearby stairwell and was the first person to see the victim after the attack refuted nearly all of the accusations. 
¦ UNIVERISTY OF MtSSOUR! 
Forum held on sexual-orientation 
COLUMBIA, Mo. 
UM students and faculty spoke up last Friday, and this time, the curators listened. The Executive Committee of the UM system Board of Curators held a three-hour open forum Friday to hear opinions about the exclusion of sexual orientation from the UM non-discrimination clause. Board President Theodore Beckett requested the forum after a rally for the amendment at the October Board of Curators meeting. The Executive Committee was allowed only to listen and could not respond to the nearly 40 speakers. The Missouri Students Association, the Inter-Campus Faculty Council and MU's Faculty Council all spoke in favor of adding sexual orientation to the clause. "If the absence of such a clause provides the absence of faculty and students, are we truly doing our duty?" Faculty Council Chairman Robert Weagley said. "We've signaled to the world that we're more closed than open." 
¦ Sourn Brno WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 18.
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWenther" forecast for <laytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L Wednesday~ SS 38 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sun;day 
\ 
85Q_~qe G {) ~ u 
Boston 47 35 Indianapolis 59 37 Palm Beach 83 70
Showers T-storms Rain Fl,;,;,e.s Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
Chicago 57 36 Las Vegas 63 43 San Diego 66 52 

• ·!•' .;: 
i)-44 28 
...,..........~ ............ 
@ 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY


~52 38 
@'"'"'co . D ~ CJ G G -~> 
High Low Showers Rain T~storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V1a AssOOa/Bd Press 

These recent busts have forced fraternities to more strictly enforce the Greek system's rules about serv­ing alcohol and monitoring entrances at parties. 
"We could see from observation the fraternities caught on quickly," Blackwell said.lnterfraternity Council President Bradley Holeman, a Kinesieology senior,said the raids 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Students mourn civil rights leader 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
This rallying cry in America will continue even though former Black Pantherleader Stokely Carmichael died Sunday of cancer, said Errol Henderson, assistant profes­sor in political science.Carmichael, who rode on the first of the famed freedom rides, began his career in civil rights while a student at Howard University. It was in col­lege that he learned how blacks and whites protested segregation by sit-ins at lunch counters in the South. "Students should continue to follow his activism," Henderson said, saying that Carmichael showed that stu­dents can make a difference. "He was the bridge between the Civil Rights Movement and the black power move­ment. He was clearly a freedom fighter and his advocacy was toward a unified Africa." Carmichael, one of the most iniluentrial civil rights activists to date, also con­tributed to black voter registration in the South in the 1960s. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA 
Researchers find benefits to smoking 
IRVINE, Calif. 

People addicted to tobacco products may soon find it less desirable to quit. UC! researchers have found that the drug nicotine has potential medicinal and pharmacological bene­fits. A research team, led by Dr. Larry Jamner, is working towards discovering the effect nicotine has on humans, and how it can be applied toward the treatment of' illnesses such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD}. According to Jamner, the main focus of this project is to address the question of teenage susceptibility to tobacco use. "We know that between 60-80 percent of teens today actually experi­ment with smoking," Jamner said. "One of our first ques­tions was why did some kids get hooked and some didn't?" The answer to this question, while seemingly complex, may be as simple as this: nicotine affects the brain in many dif­ferent positive ways. To help isolate the ways in which nico­tine affects different brain centers, Jamner's team of researchers have received a $2 million grant. 
have sparked reform in the Greek community. 
"People are changing, but unfortu­nately this group did not change," Holeman said of Phi Kappa Psi. Holeman said four parties were reg­istered with IFC on Friday and nine Saturday. Fraternities enforced strict admission policies, including guest lists and checking students' identification. 
"They were checking IDs and tak­ing enforcement actions," Blackwell said. Holeman said most of the fra­ternities and sororities realize they have to follow IFC's party guide­lines. IFC prohibits hard liquor, glass"'' containers and common sources of alcohol. 
Registered parties must post .taxi information and monitor entrance and exit points. "By showing that we can do things right, we are being more responsible," Holeman said. 


Wedne~day, November 18, 1998 
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 


Welna: NGOs important in betterment of human rights 


Come to The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center and find out why so many people bring their copies to us. We always check and double-check to make sure your copies come out pcrfcct---cvcry time. We'll give you clear, accurate copies for every project you bring to us. 

one Right 


COPY SHOP 
the First 
LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556


Time? 
Phone 631-2679 

Notice the Accuracy i~_Every-f op~~ 
f ,-\ \
V J ·. 
HIGH-SPEED COPIES • COLOR COPIES DESKTOP PUBLISHING • FAX SERVICE 

;·. RESUME SERVICE • BINDING • AND MOREi 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY!!! 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyright 1998 • All Rights Reserved 
By ANNIE SPIU.NER 
News Writrr 
Basnd on his rnsnarch about non-gov,nnmnntal organiza­tions in Mexico. Christoplrnr Wnlna assPrtPcl tlw impor­tance of N<iOs in thP bPtler­nwnt of human rights. 

"NCOs conlributP to tlw pro­motion or democracy hy gen­nrali ng indepnnd(ln l informa­tion about government purfor­mancn, nspncially thn provi­sion of' justice," said Wdna in a lncturn Tuesday. 
!In wont on to f\Xplain the nrnchanisms that causn NG0s to form and furtlrnr mnphasize tlrn advantagns of' tlwse orga­
nizations. Wnlna claimed an aware­
nPss ol' LhP abusPs that are "The amendments vaguely citizens." Widespread torture,presnnl. sonrn demand for describe criminal protest police brutality and a blatant 
change, ant.I uncertainty with­behavior and give police more system of bribery were some in thn governnwnt all combine 
reasons to detain people," of the injustices that spurred LO produce a NG0s to 

driving force appear.
in thn cre­
"The 

ation of 'NGOS CONTRIBUTE TO THE PROMOTION OF DEMOCRACY BY 
justice
NG0s. 
GENERATING INDEPENDENT INFORMATION ABOUT GOVERN· system

llef'orms 
that was

rocused on MENT PERFORMANCE, FSPECIALLY THE PROVISION OF JUSTICE.' 
sub-opti­constitution­mal and 

al amend­
stable
CHRISTOPHER WELNA

ments and 
w a s 

the expan­ASSOUATE' DIRECTOR AND PROFESSIONAi, SPEC/AUST 
m a d e sion of the KELLOG INSTITUTE weaker l'cdnral 
and more 

courts added 
unpre­

to Lim already existing corrup­while entrapping them in a dictable by these reforms," tion in tho justice system and system where Welna argues said Welna, noting that this aimed to further oppress the that "reliable judicial deci­caused peoplp, to develop a Mexican middle class, he said. 
sions became less likely for fundamental distrust in their government. "Uncertainty is stimulation for people ·to go out and get 
information for themselves," said Wclna. "It jump-starts the information market stimu­lating other organizations to get better information." 
Welna praised the increase in NG0s, noting the fact that they provide people with other informational sources than does the government. 
"There's a basic model of' action and response at work." said Welna. 
NG0s arise in rnsponse to a corrupted government and may either cooperato or com­pete with the government depending on the situation. 
Welna emphasized that both types of activity can enhance the quality of' information gen­erated and in turn enable peo­ple to put more pressure to limit the government and defy human rights transgressions. 

Who said this· No, not Aristotle, Plato, or Clce10. 
It was the Arab philosopher, lbn KhaldQIJ, 
(14th century) 
Read him in the original! 
BEGINNING ARABIC" MEAR 101-SPR' ~,, 
For more information call or stop by th .....·. .. . ........... ··· 304 O'Shaugnessy,. pJtq,pf~: :I.II::<.
.................................... 
Astudent run Web 
design group visited the Saint Mary's Board of Governance last night to get input and seek the support of BOG for their idea or cre­ating a Web site called Planet Irish. The site would comprise a local guide with Notre Dame tourist informa­tion, classifieds and a calen­dar of' events. 
Them would also be links to Notrn Dame and Saint Mary's Web sitns. 
Pictured arn, from lef't Brad Gurasich, Jnnny Bradburn and Mary Wisniewski, rnprcsentativns of the Wnb design group. 


Got News? Call The Observer at 631­
5323 

and fill 
•


us 1n. 



page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 18, 1998 

Clause 
continued from page 4 
one of the four student mem­bers of the Academic Council. 
Student body president Peter Cesaro noted that the activism of students on the issue was encouraging and played a role in bringing attention to the issue. 
"This has been a great day 

Iraq 
continued from page I 
within 15 minutes of leveling Baghdad with air strikes, President Clintou may have no choice but to Pxercise that force if Hussein's promises to relent Saturday once more prove shallow. according to Anne Hayner. assistant pro­fessional specialist for the Kroc Institute 
"Mv fear is that the U.S. has forced itself into a box," Hayner said. "Iraq has no more chances if they refuse to cooperate. So now we're obligated to act at the slight­est hesitation. It's much bet­ter to have room for negotiat­ing and posturing instead of actually having to follow through on violence." 
But U.S. allies seem less anxious to start a widespread bombing campaign against Hussein and fraq, according to Hayner. 
"There is tension between those who want to be firm, and those who don't see how violence helps anyone," Hayner said. I think everyone is sympathetic to the United States' need to issue dead­lines in order to make Iraq comply, but no one is sure how bombing Iraq would solve the situation." 
Because those nations appear relieved that Saturday ended with a peaceful -if tentative -agreement, the 
U.S. should once more play the waiting game, according to Patricia Davis, assistant professor of government and Fellow of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
"We just have to wait and make sure that Iraq com­plies," said Davis. "If they don't, we need to start the process over again. This should be an international effort, not just the U.S. 
"We need to use interna­tional pressure to coerce, not force." 
Said visiting professor Richard Conroy, "The U.S. should avoid the mentality that suggests that we care how we look. There is a regrettable tendency to see the non-use of force as fail­ure. We are so obsessed with 
credibility, but the  use  of  
force is  not  a  measure  of  
credibility."  

President Clinton is one who could reap personal and professoinal benefits if he helps resolve the situation. Conroy and Davis agreed that if Clinton negotiates a deci­sive resolution with Hussain, the President's reputation for the Notre Dame communi­ty," said Cesaro. "We're excit­ed about [the council's deci­sion] and we'll be waiting for the final results from Father Malloy and the Board of Trustees." 

The Background 
This issue has been the sub­ject of numerous demonstra­tions and resolutions from stu­dent and faculty groups. 
could improve domestically and internationally. 
"The ·rerent fLewinskvl scandal has definiteiy detracted from the presi­drnt's credibility as a world leader," Conroy said. "But if you look at his track record latelv. he has been successful in foreign policy, and he has used that to downplay the scandal. Now if he had failed, evervone would havfl blamed the Lewinsky scandal." 
Said Davis, "Most people think this is a victorv for the United States and ·Clinton. They. see the president as tough and decisive." 
But oven if the U.S. and Clinton want to take credit for getting Iraq to bark down, Iraq is attributing its actions to the prevailing opinions of nr,ighboring countries. 
"I think the position of Iraq's Arab neighbors is an encouraging sign," said Conroy. "Due to the media and the government's press releases, the public tends to think that the threat of force made Iraq comply. But Iraq claims that the position of the Arab states was more impor­tant. This gives the U.S. two crucial things to think about. 
"First, it shows that force was only part of the picture," he continued. "And second, the U.S. must maintain Arab support; we cannot overplay our hand as we have done in the past." 
Ultimately, the situation could affect U.S. foreign poli­cy by either opening or clos­ing doors, especially to those Arab nations that border Iraq and who oppose more vio­lence in the Gulf. 
"The U.S. is lucky. This has placed us in the most power­ful position," said Hayner. "We still have room to enforce policy. If we had started bombing, we would be out of it; there would be no more inspection. We kept our leverage this way." 
SEX 
The amendment was brought to the Academic Council by the Faculty Senate. which passr,d a resolution in May calling for the change. The Student Senate echoed that sentiment last month when it passed a resolution supporting the lllOVfl. 
The May referendum marked the second time in recent years that the faculty Senate has addressed the issue of homo­sexual equality at the University. In May 1996, the group called on the offkers of the University to add sexual orientation to the non-discrimi­nation clause. 
After lengthy consideration, the officers rejected the pro­posal, instead opting to adopt the Spirit of Inclusion state­ment, a non-binding clause which welcomes "all people, regardless of regardless of color, gender, religion ... sexu­al orientation ... precisely because of Christ's calling to treat others as we desire to be treated." 
This time, the Faculty Senate's resolution asked the Academic Council to provide a more legally binding provision. 
The Academic Council is comprised of administrators, a wide range of faculty members and four students and is responsible for making the major decisions regarding aca­demic life at the University. 

NOTRE DAME GOES COLD TURKEY 
Join the Notre Dame Community for THE G'REAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT Thursday, November 19, 1998 

ALCOHOL WOMEN HANGOVERS STDs BARS DESIGNATED DRIVER,$ 


,URVIVE THE WEEKEND? 
Turn in your tobacco products and receive a . coupon for a FREE turkey sandwich. 
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following locations and times: 
X  Lafortune  10am to 3pm  
X  Grace Hall  10:30am to 11:15am  
X  North Dining Hall  11am to 2pm  
X  South Dining Hall  11am to 2pm  
X  Joyce Center  11:30am to 12:15pm  
X  Library Concourse  1:30pm to 2:15pm  

X Mason Services Center 3:15pm to 4pm 
Coupons for a Free turkey sandwich redeemable at: 
Reckers * HuddleMart * Greenfields * Decio Commons Cafe Poche (Bond Hall) * Waddicks (O'Shaughnessy) Irish Cafe (Law School)* Common Stock Sandwich Co. (COBA) 

Tobacco Cessation Materials will be available. 
This program is sponsored by IRISHealth, Notre Dame Food Services, American Cancer Society, and Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education. 
-
~ 
Thursday 6:30 LeMans Hall Lobby River Huston, an interactive discussion examining · ing warning signs, and questioning stereotypes 


Wt:dm:sday, November 18, 1998 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
House Judiciary Committee releases Lewinsky tapes 
Wi\SIIINGTON 

Finally. thf' voirn. Monica l,1•winsky's girlish PXrill'nH'nt and pouty 1wtula11ce revnrberalP through llw Linda Tripp tapi•s as shn disscC'.ls lwr improbablt• n,lationship with tlw pri:si• dPnL No vallPy-girl-sp,,ak lwre. No grim "Fat.ti t\ltrnrtion" toll('S. Hath-Mr-. LIH• gush of Pmotion f'rom an <'arrwst young woman infat.­uat«'d with an olckr man. Naivn but not quitn illlllH'l'lll. With pnwisn diction. Lt\Winsky play­J'ullv t,•sts ro11w-ons to Clinton like "Dl'iff lloo­Ho1;" und "You ran't rdt1S(' nir. be1:ause I'm too 1·ut1• and a<lornb].-... But slw rlrnkm, out lwr words ovPr sobs wlwn things turn sour. dPrluring: "It is too murh !'or any on<\ p1,rso11." Thi' 22 hours of' ta1ws n,11,asi.cl Tunsday by tlw Ilous1· .lucli<'.iary Commitl1'<' gaw Anwrka its 1irsl rhanrP lo lwar l.1•\,\'i11sky's voicl', oni' ol' llw li•w l'!'tnaining 111yst1•ril's from a prPsi­c!t-ntial mor,dity Lal1· Llrnl has unfolded in Px1·nwialing d1•Lail. 
U.N. inspectors arrive in Iraq 
IIA<;lllJ/\D 

U.;\l. Wt'apons t'X[Wrts pow,,n•d up tlrnir romput1•rs and tPstl'd monitoring c:am11ras T1wsday 011 tlwir lirsl day hark in Iraq al'tPr a nisis thaL almost ('anw lo war. Thi' hunt f'or f11rlliddP11 arms is about to n•sum,•. but tlH' i11spl'1·t11rs know tht' rPal test ol' Iraq's 1·0111plia11cp won't com1• !'or ,l whiln. Tlw insppc·tors' spokl'swonrnn. Carolirw Cross. t11ld Tlw ,\ss1wia!1•d l'rc•ss that all thP nquip­rn1•11I was in ord1~r. and said Llw lirst of Lill' insp1•1·lions -whid1 hav1• bPl'll blorkPd sin1·1• ;\ug11sl -would ronw today. At lirsl, th!' i11sp1•1·t11rs art' 1,xpi,clPd to visit d1\danHl arms siLPs \\ht•rp lhf'y hav<' alrl'ady installl'd ranwras and sPnsors for long-tnrm monitor­ing-. 
Russia displayed fake missiles 
MOSCOW 

Many of tlw monstrous strategic missiles display,,d in Il1!d Square parades during thn Sovil'l Na Wl'l'I\ only dummies, but thny Sl'.arc d t IH• Wrs t in to an nx p1rnsive r(•sponsn. a Hussian magazine reported T u e s d ay . 0 n11 s u c h fa k e -c; H-1 . a n acronym !'or Global Missiln -showed dur­ing a May 1), 1965. parade prompted lhl' Unitnd Stales lo build an anti-missile tlr!'1~nsc systPm worth billions of dollars. said thci wr.1,kly magazirn! Vlast (Power). In fact. th<) Soviets had abandonnd tlrn GH-1 projPct long bnfore llrn parade. Another two mobile ballistic missilns shown on the samfi day were also l'akns. their lest launches having bcnn a complete failure. the maga­zi1w said. "For!'ign military attaches wern scarPd to dnath. triggering panic in NATO lwadquart1n-s," it said. 

lfMt@iiffi#bllttM 
/)ow 
AMEX: 66.8')
./ONES 08~ 
N,mhu1:
8986.28 
1878. 52 
116.84 
D 
NYSE: 
561.02 ,0.7>j 
S&P 500: 
IU932 

Composi1e
d46 
Volume:-24.97 70'1, 160,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
''!J~!l'~?ll:X 11!"!~1 H 1M1f'U1H'Jlil S1i,~I~ l'Hl!'I 
11111 ( 01\ll'PIIJI 1,111 • l .!~ +l,12',"111 M .i12:'I IIUtl N, t~ IOln + 11 n5 •2.4.17~ 2:4.$0!~) l'llh,lllll'INl tel . l)U +1.z.11111 ·l:l..fi'.'11! t l\t !l'.V\11~1\ {,\{ t 1 .,.;,, 71 + i .KT2~ MO~OU !Nil.I I Clltl' INI< ~ 1.•'i.2 t 1.IJ2.'i.ll IIIH,$\1110 MU'lUl\\)I I t,1111,1 1 ~Ml +J.JII +..J.!lii2S 111.X7SO K II I !NII K111 .J ! tJj .5.,,$n l.!WiOO Ill \\o'I I! 11"!'\l 1\/HUl !IW!' ,11 11 •fUlh2~ hil.t!f12~ ( O\jjl,\\l I UMl'll II ll c I'!) -0. IX .11.!lt1.2S J-1.rn1l~ l'lOl'JI\OJ I !Nt l'\11 .Lf,.'i. -U.7.SO'I llJ.7,"ilJO 
COMPILED HWM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

¦ OKINAWA 



Scientists, spectators watch meteors 
Assoc1ATE1J PnEss 
KJ\.DENJ\ i\lH BASE 

Meteors strnakHd through the skies over /\sia in blams of rrd and white as the biggest mr,tPor storm in decades reached its climax just bnforn dawn VVodrrnsday. 
Wh ihi stargazers galh ercd across the globe. NASA scinntists boarded planes lo get above the clouds over Japan to study the spectacle, which bngan Monday. 
From Lhc top of the highest mountain in Thailand. !o th,i nf'on-drnnclwd strc<'ts of Tokyo. to lh11 d(:serts and plains of lhe United States. pnople turrrnd their eyes to the skins f'or thr climax of the l.conid storm. which peaks every '.B years. 
Thf\ shower is r,ausncl by the Earth's pas­sagP through the long tail of' Lhe Comet Tnmpel-Tuttlll. The storm got ils name because it appears to come from the direc­tion of' the constdlation Leo. 
Wherever weather permitted. people were treated to a glorious show of nature. 
"It's wonderf'ul." said Toshiaki Kogai, one ol' hundreds or Japanesn who watched the storm from a park just south of Tokyo. "I ncv<ir imaginnd it would bn like this." 
In Tokyo and many other Asian cities, pub­lic ofliccs and privatl' businnsses turned off their lights to Pnhancn viewing. 
Though llw night remained bright in the Tokyo arna. mclt'ors could he seen streaking across the skies every two or three minutes at the peak of the storm. 
Sonrn appearnd to lizzln as thPy fell. Others looked likt\ moving dots. 
Had1 brought many a wish. 
"I only wish I could think up wishes faster," said lkue Oe. a housewifo out watch­ing the slorm with her husband in the Tokyo suburb of Yokohama. 
In the United States. the best seats were wherever the skv was darkest and clearest. 
The crowds t.hat gathered at sites in the Mojave Desert in California early Tuesday wcrn enthusiaslic. 
Sandra Macika, 36, of' San Jose saw about :{O meteors. "I could sec in front of me big streaks of light falling on the highway," she said. 
One group was camping out in the Sandhills of central Nebraska. getting away from city lights. 
"We're catching an average of two or three meteors a minute. one of the best meteor showers I've seen in quite some time," said Daniel Glomski early Tuesday morning. 
The show was eagerly met across Asia. 
In northern Thailand, tens of thousands of tnurists swarmed to Doi lnlhanon, the Southeast Asian country·s highest peak at 8,464 feet, and Doi Suthep, another moun­tain with a famed Buddhist temple on top. 

But clouds and lightning hindered the viewing. 
To beat the clouds. two NASA research planes brimming with sci­entific sensors Look off from this 
U.S..-Air Force base on the southern Japanese island of Okinawa. 
NASA sees this year's storm as a rare chance t.o study the composi­tion of comets and meteoroids-and perhaps learn something about the origin of life in the process. 
"We have a very unique opportu­nity here to get some information about the way life may have arisen," said NASA astrobiology specialist Gregg Schmidt. 
Some scientists believe the ele­ments necessary for life may have 
been brought lo Earth by comeL'i or meteorites. 
Though A'iia was best positioned for viewing the climax of the storm. the spectacle was seen throughout the globe-if the weather was clear. 
Rescuers in Norway were swamped with calls from concerned people who spotted what they thought were red distress flares fired from ships in trouble off the southern coast. 
Though the Lnonid shower occurs every November. it usually is not particularly spectacular. But every 33 years the Tempel-Tuttle comet speeds through the inner solar system and slf.eds swarms of particles as it nears the sun. 


Israeli Parliament approves accord 
ASSOCIATED PnESS right-wing lawmakers said they were shocked to soo how isolated some Jewish settlements would become aft.er the JBIUJSALBM first pullout from 2 pcreent of the area. 

Israel's parliament overwhelmingly approved the latest Others complained that tlrn govornnwnt was hiding the Midnast land-for-peace accord with the Palestinians late truth from them by only posting a map for the first phase of Tuesd,~y. paving lhe way for an Jsnuili troi.ip withdrawal withdrnwaL from th,~ West Bank. "This is a fraud," charged Michad Kleiner, a right-wing 
The Knesset endorsed the agreement by a 75-19 vote with legislator in Netanyahu 's coalition. The public and thn ni.ne abstentions. lt was also a vole oJ' confidence in lsrneH media were not allowed to view the maps. Prime Minister [hinjamin Netanyahu, who signed the agree­AddrHssing the Knosset earliM, N!'llnnyahu said maps ment with Ya.'lser Arafat at the White House Oct. 23. would be sho-w11 to the parliament before each pullback and 
The vote and a ret1·action of inflammatory statements ear­called on ministers to support the peace accord. lier Ttwsday by Arafat pushP.d th(3 Wye Rivnr accord over "r hop,~ that what comes out today is a wido agrommmt on two major hunllos toward implementation. the Wye accord and the desire to see it carried out. I think 
The crisis over J\rafat's recent remarks was the latest in a this is the only way to achieve peace." Net.anyahu said. series of no.re-ups to plague the U.S.-brokered accord that On Monday. Netanyahu suspended plans l'or the redeploy• calls for Isranl to wilhdrnw troops from 13 percent of West ment and demanded a retraction from Arafat aft()!' the Bank territoty. Palestinian leader repeatedly said he would announce state­
L1Lwmakers got their first look at withdrawal mapsbefon1 hood in May and alluded to armed con!lict as a means to Tuesday's vote. Coming out of a map room in the Knesset, gain independence. 
page 6 Wednesday, November 18, 1998 

Today 
The Observer looks at the WOMEN IN women who in_fl,uence Corporate America and how they inspire female business students. 





n 
cus 
BUSINESS 
A bi-weekly feature from The Observer News Department 
Trend&£htmge4n"m.,.omiDatldiimsill~·WOrld 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE wwst eU!;)ffiY.," sbe§a,id, e,q,re$siqg,<ils­NewsWi-ittr Jn · ti\ · · 
. ~ft fo:f .•• 
Since. the years of the so-called,glass iWith n~twOrkfag and mterns\lips, · ceiling, w9men.hnve.str9.gg}~~t~Jip.da Tl.. ,more~xp~ But14Jo,rglevel playing fi1*Lincm,r,w:~a,ro1'\ra91icac; W·.· . ll, ,~Y/fl¼~;;,i 
fior the last 1 O years women •~ave lyn; .• .. . . . of . . . le~l:!'!,Pf begun rising to senior-J13yel posl(lons, 8usinmf$Admlnf ion, stressed 'pt.e~ bttt holding their groundjs not · · ti ,~J,;il)s k t11k,t9g. ·· 
MarilQtt EJdred, prest#ont s · Mary's College, referred' back Ji;fthe . t . ''flngettr . late 1980's and views on women. ~I'm concerne with the. decreasing 
"The glass ceHi~g k~~t:WO . rom p~rc~n f ~men in tl)¢'. MBAptd'­advanc:ing much," sl1e ~,id. h'iid ;grl'J.,m;'.1 .· .. di/')'.> , ;\<\ ·· ..).;,.fewer women in high-rankedjo . · •''Women arc discouraged lo hear thoy · Eldred admits that tM glass h;.$ not might be 28 years ·old before getting out been cracked, but wome.ti,d.etlnitely are , • q~.?choo~;~ .•.••·. ,<,; : ·.... /// ·. .· . , . \ .· cominginto their own h1tlieageof'pl)p-•··In thff,to}) 50 universities;there·are ulation. only twoJemale deans. hf the top 20, 
"The women's movement of the '60's Notre Dame is the only one, paved thp way, but wq.are.not.Y.'.here . , '.'l wisfl morehrogress·had het.1n we should be," said Eldred. 1'.dade," $lid \Voo. r~1an.y wh.fucn thr~'to · 
Within the next decade Eldred hopes their own business rather than climb­to see women considere,d, as eqiJil.l~ in iµg .up th~. corporatt.1 fadder/' .·.. . • the field of business. She wants Jtfsee •••.\i''Wom~tJneedt9he.p4t:1;q :;ituflJji:r,ns 
more gender-neutral· boards and have wh~re tliere may not.be. (I. happy end~ female CEOs. ing," said Woo. 0Make th.em deal with 
"Corporations want the bestperson to i;µmplexity,. to Vfaltaway<l:1,9t be .liked, do the job. Sometimes the besr petson .• . ~µt giverj\~espe<;t.t'.•· ··. < . .·.·.•·· 
is a woman," said Eldred."[But]women i"Womert bavethecapacityto succeed need to be better prepared than men to in tho c()rporate society if given the get to. the same level." 9JJportU!fitr," sai~ t\loo. ···•.· 
"Men aren't the only harrier to·. •..•.. Oiane l)aly••Miy-an:y a11d Elizabeth· achievement. Women can be their, own Culligan·are just two examples of Saint . 
ANotre Darry~btlsin~~$ student rushes through COBA forn.n interview. 
Mary's women who have risen to the eral manager of Xerox. topJn 1.he ~~sin~ss :w9rld. Culligan, a Saint Mary's graduate in McGarry,Jl 1970~~in~ Mary's. gradu• 1972, is the president of Nabisco ate, is now the vice president. and gen-International. 
Women gaining business titles 
By JESSICA DELGADO News Writer 
"Its a man's world," as the adage goes. 
However, not only is the world fast becoming one of equal opportunity, the business world is seeing women holding more top positions and impacting peoples' lives more than they realize. 
The recent list put out by Fortune magazine named the fifty most powerful women in American Business. The list was topped by Carly Fiorina, the group president of Lucent Technologies. 
Fiorina was selected from a sea of senior men to orchestrate the initial public stock offer­ing and find a new name and corporate image. 
After finding success in this endeavor, Fiorino became the president of the core division of Lucent Technologies generating $19 billion in revenues this year. 
Another success story is stock market strate­gist, Abby Joseph Cohen. 
"Her faith lies in the fundamentals -the healthy U.S. economy and low inflation-and she holds fast, amid all the gyrations, that the Dow will reach 9300 at year-end," reports Fortune magazine. 
Not only are the statistics looking good for women, but just as good for minority women. 
Andrea Jung, president and COO of Avon Products, was ranked eighth on the Fortune list and has become a merchandising hotshot in the cosmelic arena. 
"It wasn't my education or my experience. H's my passion," Jung said. Fortune magazine reported she impressively beat out veterans for the presidency last year. 
Finishing the list at forty-eighth, Sylvia Rhone Chairwoman of Elektra Entertainment Group, by bringing groups like Third Eye Rlind, Missy Elliott, and Busta Ryhmes to the forefront. 
Woman of the nineties often feel indebted to the woman of the sixties, and seventies who furthered the woman's movement which put woman in the workplace and fought to allow women the chance to have an impact on the American life outside of the home. 
"ln my generation it was weird to hear a woman can, but now it's weird to hear a 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
The 11 percent of women constituting Fortune 
500 officers inspire female business students. 
woman can't," said Susan Vance, professor of business administration and economics at Saint Mary's. 
In Phoenix, Ariz., a newly found company exists, run by a woman who loves going against the norm. · 
Heidi Scott, president of Great Scott Productions, bought a production studio three years ago, a studio she knew nothing about. 
"I did a walk through and said, 'I have no idea what most of this stuff is, but I know I want to be involved with it," said Scott. 
For the first couple of months she struggled, but before she knew it she had pieced together the knowledge of the industry. 
After putting together her knowledge, busi­ness background, and focus on customer ser­vice has captured the att1rntion of Valley adver­tising agencies. 
Fox Animation Studios used Great Scott for its first film Anastasia, and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno used the studio for editing when they were in Arizona for Super Bowl XXX. 
Her big dream is to produce major television shows from a facility she says will rival "any­thing you can find in Los Angeles." 
Taking opportunities, combined with hard work, dedication and making the most of limit­ed resources all work in favor of women mak­ing their way to the top in the business world. 
Scott sums up what many women in and out­side of the corporate world feel. " ... doing something somebody told you you couldn't. I love that" replies Scott. 
Conflicting societal views 
By LISA MAXBAUER more problematic. "Their tradi­In Focus Editor tional role has always been to get married and have children," The workplace is often said Westler. "Women who thought of as an ideal backdrop have tried to do something dif­to stage a psychological debate fc rent to be ambitious have of nature versus nurture. done so, by cutting against the 
Nature has designated women grain." as the ones who bear and care lie explained, "ambition in a for children, yet they are being man is perfectly acceptable, but nurtured with the belief that often in a woman it is seen as they can pursue powerful selfishness." careers. Janet Kourany, philosophy 
This inconsistency may lead professor at Notre Dame, is women to foster ideologies of concerned about men and power and success that are bur­women's career options. densome. Kourany said, "You really 
"Women have had to distin­can't have top-flight business guish themselves as more ruth­achievements and not have this less... than other men," said fantastic giving-up of time and Teresa Ghilarducci, professor of energy." economics at In general Notre Dame. for men, 
Ghilarducci "everything is
,you REALLY CAN'T
links women's coherent in experiences in HAVE TOP·fl.lGHT BUSI· their minds, 
business to [but] women 
tr a d i t i O n a J NESS ACHIEVEMENTS AND 
are reluctant legacy issues. NOT HAVE THIS FANTASTIC to make plans They may be by them­
aggressive to GIVING-UP OF TIME AND 
selves," she compensate ENERGY,' said. Women for what they may delay have lacked 
JANET KOURANY their plans to 
through histo­accommodate ry. 
PROFESSOR OF PmLOSOPHY their hus­"Getting jobs band's goals. of a high level is through net­Westler said he feels men and working," Ghilarducci said, women envision careers with "and traditionally women have equal desire, but "only women not been allowed in the same feel the burden of guilt [that bathrooms and country clubs as accompanies their choices]." men." The main conflict is the bal­Saint Mary's English profes­ance between home and work. sor Max Westler traces the lack "There is a sense that all of of female opportunities to this these battles have been won, nation's origins, where women but if anything, ground has were denied property and the been lost," said Westler. chance to work. Said Kourany, "It would be 
"If you couldn't learn a trade, nice to restructure the world so you couldn't live dependcmtly," that everyorn~ could nourish in Westler said. a loving relationship and a 
Today success becomes even rewarding career." 
Studies from Fortune's Oct. 12 issue contributed to In Focus. 
-------------------· ---­
··-·­
Wednesday, November 18, 1998 The Observer• IN FOCUS page 7 
Breaking the glass ceiling 
!Im indivichrnl nonds of a r.ompany." 
"You arc encouraged to think creatively and am rcquirnd to comn up with solutions on a day to day basis. You have to think outsidf' the box," said 
Business major praises 
Notre Dame's real world 
Block. Whil11 classes do nol lf':ach one exactly how to he a
preparation 
consultant, Block praised Notre Dam<i's curriculum as good jJre11aration. 
"Classes don't give you anything tangible. What By MAGGY TINUCCI you learn in sclrnol is learning how to lr.arn," said Nl'w, Writ,·r Block. "You get exposure to tasks a.nd learn to look 
al problems in an analytical way. ft's a good start­
Thi' lingo lward in llw world of' businnss is ol'tcn ing ground." i11df'1'.iplH'rabh-to t.hc av1\rHgP person. hut the buzz Block stressed the work ethic each Notrn Dame word for tlw f'uturP should spnak volunws to nvtiry studnnt ncods. roll1\g1! sltuknt. Tlw word is opportu11ily. "Students hero have to have a commitment and 
"It's lilrn walking down [)w strent and coming to,! ability to lflarn, or they would not bn here," said lhousand forks in llw road,"sairl Emily Block. a Block. "Anyone can learn a stornhouse of knowl­s1•11ior Managnm1!nt and edge. Notre Dame has taught Co111put1•r Applications major at mo how to apply it. It doesn't Nolrn Danw. provide spt1cifics, but the ability 
Thi• options opt\11 lo Lh~sn to think differently and see the
'IWILL KNOW I HAVE SUCCEEDED
rt•ady to PnLPr tlw husiirnss bigger picture in achieving your
IF J WAKE UP EVERY MORNING
worlcl 1tr1• t111limit1•d, as it is a goals." growing finld. Arthur And1m::on, EXCITED TO GO TO WORK AND IF I Another issue that f'rnquontly 111w ol' tlw Big Fivri, has apprnx-makes news as business buzz i ma ln Iy 5<;,000 consultants LEAVE EVERY AFTERNOON KNOW-concArns the debate over gen­worldwic!P. ING I CONTRIBUTED TO SOME-der equality in tho workplace. 
B I or k, who is considorirq~ THING.' Block does see a stereotypical starting o!T lwr carc1•r in con-gender perspective in her class­sulting, ckscribcs this particu­es, where males arc perceived lar (fold as "a sll!p towards a EMtl.YBI.OCK as the dominant figure who futurP," htll dons nol think she NOTRE DAME SRN/Oll gives orders. Despite this she 
will spend lwr lifo in it. has been more than thrilled baby, too," she said. "I think it's important to bn around female professors who demonstrato that it's
"This will give nw Llw nx1H1ri-with Career and Placement's 1•11 c1• lo dncide wh,irn I am handling of this situation. possible to have both a career and a family." meant to lw," slrn said. "It will "There is a real sense of While the world of business is open to virtually giVP nw a grasp of Urn technolo-nquality. I haven't felt I was at a detriment for being 
anyone, regardless of major, one ultimately has lo gy sid<' or things as well as a l\mdamnntal under­female," she said. follow this path that will lead to the greatest happi­ness.
standing or systnms." At the same time, she hopes she was not given any 
"My dad is a managrnmrnl consullant," said Block. advantages because of her gender. "I will know I have succeeded if I wake up every "(;rowing up. peopln would ask mn what my dad did "I want to be hired for who I am, not what I am," morning excited to go to work and if I leave every and I 1wv1ff knew what to say. Now I am preparing said Block. afternoon knowing I contributed to something," said to 1H1t(1r the samn field." Block is currently a teacher's assistant for a Block. "I don't know what this will be, but if I don't 
"Consultants am basically any group of experts female professor. find it in one place, I'll find it in another." roming in to 1waluate thn needs ol' a particular com­"She is absolutely brilliant and has a new-born pany," sh1• sUlled. "They tailor existing systems to 

How do you perceive female managers in the workplace? 

Females tend to be more cooperative. They look at things ditterentfy. Sometimes males become power freaks. I don't think females do that as much. 
Patrick Broderick Sophomore, Carroll Hall 
When you consider women in the workplace you have to think of how they have been seen through history, They've never been given a chance. I'd feel comfortable with a female boss. They're more understanding and sensitive. I'd be afraid that they would be moody though. 
Cesar Castellon Junior, Dillon Hall 


At least tor me, a strength would be that she would understand how hard it is for a woman to get to the top. A weakness would be that she may be a tougher boss so that she would stay at the top. 
Tysus Jackson 
Senior, Holy Cross Hall 
I don't think women would manage any differ• ently. Just Ilka the way everyone is being edu­cated the same way, everyone is managing the same way. There really Isn't a difference in male and female managers. 
Chris Avila Sophomore, Morrissey Hall 


I've had positive experiences as a boss, but there are barriers. Workers are more open mind­ed to women because it is a change. But you definitely have to prove yourself, especially in male-dominated industries. If I were a man, I'd would be afraid of a woman boss. 
Megan Mahoney 
SeniorI Le Mans Hall 




Feminine experience is big business 
to the leader of the compa­about whether she has gn1at
Women are 
ny." technical skills or how she Compared to tho technical can mad a financial report,"
excelling in pub­
industries, companies in the he said. "You are probably creative industries have also thinking that she hm, a good
lic 
been more receptive to ability to identify with people
industries where women advancing through and that is probably what the 
the ranks, said Renshaw. company liked about hnr 
their creative Although some may not when they hired her too." 
view these women outside Women am also willing to
strengths are the traditional corporate take on the role of an entre­
world in the same light as preneur because they face
challenged those in the more technical adversity in the corporate 
industries, these women are world, said Merryman. By COLLEEN McCARTHY powerful in their own realm, "The creativity· that wom11n Saint Mary's News Editor according to Mary Ann have might be one way to 
Merryman, associate profes­look at it," she said. "But 
For many women in busi­sor of business administra­many are entreprnneurs. You ness, finding their way to the tion and economics at Saint see that spirit in many top comes through becoming Mary's. women." involved in the creative "If you look at Oprah "Thnse women have found industries such as entertain­Winfrey, she is certainly pow­success in going out and ment, advertising, media and erful but some people may doing their own thing rather publishing. not describe that in the than the tradition of' climbing 
The majority of names on strongest state," said the ladder." Fortune Magazine's "50 most Merryman. The path to the top of thn powerful women in American He11shaw contends that business world has not bnen business" list came from what makes the women in an easy one for women. these fields. the creative industries suc­"The path has differnd a lot 
Names like Martha Stewart cnssful in the positions they for women and there hasn't and Oprah Winfrey are com­hold is not necessarily their been a singlt,, dnfined path," monly associated with power technical skills but their abil­said Merryman. "It takns in these industries, but of.her ity to communicate. hare! work and pnrsnverancn names heard loss often · "Communication skills arc bul for more women it is hav­include .Jill Barad, chairman ahsolutelv essential to suc­ing the entrepreneurial spirit. and CEO of Mattel; Andrea cess and ~chieving," he sai<l. Many women have had to Jung. president and COO of "Those women have to per­find their own way of getting Avon Products; and Judy suade people and deal wil.h to the top." McGralh, president of MTV the public." Making sacrifices is often and M2. "'When you entnr a joh from part of the process, according 
Claude Renshaw, professor college, technical skills are to Henshaw. of business administration important, but to movn up "These women havo had to and economics at Saint the ladder, communkation is work hard. I have stiv<Hal Mary's, was not surprised more important," H(rnshaw former students who have that women have excelled in said. "It's not a coincidence rcaclrnd high lcvcl positions tho creative industries. to see the trend that Fortune in businesses but thoy reach 
"I think the main reasons Magazine is pointing out." them because they are often wonwn have found success in The abilitv to communicate willing to makn sacril'icns this area is because the cus­effectively-is key for high­that others don't want to," he tomers and client base of the ranking officers in businoss­said. "These sacrifices can companies are women," said os, said Renshaw. include traveling, putting in Henshaw. "The boards who "The communication skills long hours at the office and name the CEOs of companies are very widely respected in taking away from family look at having a woman in a the business world. When you time. These are big sacrifices lcaclorship role as a way to see a CEO at a stockholders for p1:iople to make, whether get their client base to relate meeting, rarely do you think they arc male or fnmaln." 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 18, 1998 
¦ GUINEA 


Friends mourn death of ex-Black Panther Carmichael 
A,sociatcd Press 
CONAKRY 
In better days. before he began wasting away from can­cer. the man who once was Stokely Carmichael -firebrand 1960s socialist, friend to revolu­tionaries and preacher of armed stru~gle -would stand on his balcony overlooking the ocean, smile his enurmous smile, and wait for the nr.ighborhood chil­
dren. 
As with everything he did. taking kids to the beach was part of the movement that con­sumed his lil'e. 
"Going to the beach with the children, that's revolution itself," said his 17-year-old son, Bocar, as weeping women con­solP.d one another in Carmichael's linoleum-f1oored living room. "It's unity and hav­ing fun and it's Africa." 
On Tuesday, the balcony was crowded with people mourning (armichael, who thrnc ciccades ago changed his name to Kwame Turn and moved to this ramshackln West African city. On Sunday, at age 57, he died of prostate cancer. 
By the time of his death, Turc was relegated lo the political fringes, largely forgotten except as a living fossil of a turbulent time in American history. The causes he espoused -Marxist revolution, radical socialism and pan-Africanism -were largely left to history's dustbins. 
But to his family, the neigh­borhood kids and old friends from the movement, a revolu­tionary was dead, and they came to pay homage. 
"f-le tried and worked to build united mass revolution parties came to Conakry to be with her Committee in the United States in the United States and world­son when he tlied. and became prime minister of wide." said Bob Brown, who As Carmichael, Ture was the Black Panther Pariy. It was was f.irst arrested with Ture among the most fiery leaders of he who popularized the phrase more than :-rn years ago and black militancy. "Black Power!" -a cry that had stay!'d with changer! the way him ever since, the once nonvio­going to Cuba, [e n t civil rights Libya and thou­'HETRIED AND WORKED TO BUILD UNITED MASS movement was 
sands of colleg-e viewed.
REVOLUTION PARTIES IN THE UNITED STATES AND
lectures. 
In Ture 's circle, WORLDWIDE.' the turbulent times are far from over. His living room is a time warp of' leftist 19()05 ideals, a place where bourgeois attitudes are scorned, where pictures of Fidel Castro and l\1oammar Gadhaii hang in honored places near the doily­covered, beat-up television and nearly all tulk revolves around 
"the movement." 
Until his death, he answered the phone saying. "Ready for the revolution." 
Bui Turc's socialism was no empty gesture. 
His house, while nice by West African standards, woul.dn 't qualify as middle-class in most American towns. The road to his front gate is treacherously rocky, and he had to look across the roofs of concrete shacks to see the ocean. 
When he came down with cancer, he received much of his treatment in Cuba and Guinea, far from the world-class cancer centers he could have continued using in New York. 
"The last words he said to me 
were, 'Revolution comes before 
medication,"' said Ture's moth­
er. Mabel Carmichael, who 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 


J\hetili:::MusrQVE 
0RGANUM AND CHANT IN HONOR OF SAINTS 

~cbola 
;.flflusicorum 
9:30p.m. Wed., Nov. 18, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public. 
While he denied being anti­semitic, his con­demnations of 
Bos BRDIVN Israel and 
FmEND OF 5iTOKELY (7Am,1/CHAEf, Zionism led the Anti-Defamation League to call him a "disiurh­
Born in Trinidad but raised in iug, polarizing ligure." 
New York City, he began his I-le cut his ties with black activism in the United States as American leftists because of a freedom rider, lighting to inte­their alliances with white radi­grate public transportation. cals and moved to Guinea in He also headed the Student 1969. invited by one of his self'­Nonviolent Coordinating selected namesakes, President 
Ahmed Sekou Toure. 
In Africa, Ture believed he had returned to where he belonged. 
'To him, it was home," Bocar said, "and Im taught mo to lovP 
ii." 
llis lif'n continued to rnvolve around the movement. H() dipped into Guinean govern­ment -thPn a brutal scmi­Stalinistic regime, ril'e with purges and plots. Wh11n President Toure died in 1984, though, Ture stayed on. 
llis days were spent rearling. writing and preparing the hun­drnds of lectures he gave each year, mainly in the United States lo mostly black college audiences, preaching socialism and pan-Al'ricanism. 
Divorced from two wives ­the South African singer Miriam Makeba and a Guinean doctor -Im raised Bocar for years. 


Peace 
continued from page I 
has organized anti-sweatshop campaigns, specifically tar­geting Nike, and is currently raising money for hurricane relief efforts. 
"!The recent hurricane dis­aster in South America] is one of the worst natural dis­asters in the last ten years," said Arends. "We decided to do door-to-door fundraising, and our goal is to raise a dol­lar for every student on cam­pus." 
In only one hour, the stu­dents who went door to door were able to collect more than $700 from students alone. 
The group expects to collect over $1,000 by the end of its fundraising efforts, according to Arends. 
They plan to send the sum to a Saint Mary's graduate who is working for the relief effort in Nicaragua. 


"Most of us at Saint Mary's are fortunate in that we;vc never had to deal with this kind of devastation,'' said Peacemaker member Elisabeth Krick. "Ai a Catholic school, we learn about helping people. 
"{We grow with morals and values [that tell us] it's our responsibility to help." 
Arends agreed. 
"It's about our obligation to help other people," she said. "This is the function of Peacemakers; we're not about charity -we're about justice and structural changes. We're giving people the opportunity to act out their verbal support." 
The domain of peace does not exclusively include fight­ing or relations between nations, said Sister Linda Kors, Peacemaker member and director of the SURV vol­
unt<rnr group. 
''Tho whole issue of peaco deals wilh anything within us that causes tension," said Kors. "It is not just about nations but includns CVPn I.Im campus. 
"[We need to consider] what W() can do to bring out the tension and deal with it." 
Kors also indicated that this sort of group is necessary at a Catholic college. 
"We need the challenge to go beyond ourselves, for our­selves and the world that we arc a part of. We need this group because we are a Catholic campus and [activism] is part of the social justice teaching of' tho Church," said Kors. 
Arends expressed hope that Peacemakers' work will extend beyond the campus. 
"We want to start on a small scale here and then hope to spread it to the world once the students leave," she said. 
Apply for Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design Office 
Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. 
Extensive application is not necessary. Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave your name and number or drop off a description of your design experience at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior preferred. 

page 9 
Wednesday, November 18, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 

The University of Notre Dame invites students from the Archdiocese of Santa Fe to meet their archbishop 
The Most Reverend Michael J. Sheehan 
at a continental breakfast on Sunday, Novmber 22, at 11: 15 a.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center 
1 

The archbishop will be the principal celebrant of the 10:00 a.m. Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart Sunday, November 22 
R.S.V.P. to_ 631-8051 by Friday, November 20 Please invite your friends from Santa Fe 
Hawaii Supreme Court 


reverses Marcos ruling 
AssodatcJ I'rcss 
IIONOLULU 
Tlw llawaii Supreme Courl on T111•sday rt'VNsncl a $22 bil­linn judgnwnt against formnr l'hi!ippilws l'rcsidnnl 1:nrdi11and Marros and his wil'P. lmPlda. for ,dlPgndly slnaling cralPs of gold hullio11 l'ro,11 il tn•astirl' !nm trir. 
With inlPrt>Sl, that award had inc:rl'asPd to about $4:{ billion. 
Tlw high !'ourt. saicl tlw nvi­dPnrP was loo spl'niiativn lo support llw lat1i HogPr Hoxas' daim lhaL lw discovert>d boxes ('.ontainini.; $22 billion worth of gold bullion whiln lrnasurc hunting north of .\fanila ill ICJ7 I. 
"It's clnvastating. It's dnvas­La ting," said Los i\ngPll!S lawynr llanid Cathcart. who rnprt~sm1ts tlw Hoxas Pslatn. 
"Frankly. I didn't think we would losP on that point. I! was totally u1wontc-stl'd." 
Hoxas claimnd FC'rdinand Marcos l1•arrwd of tlw dis1'.ov­<'ry and tlwn ordcn!d his lrooµs to <·onliscalll whatever gold l!oxas had and tlwn go to tlw tun1wls and rnmov1\ the n~sl. Tlw booty inrludcd a dia­moncl-stuffod. gold statun of a Buddha. 
Thri tniasuni is bcliov<'d to 
havti lwm1 buriNI by Japannse 
troops during tlwir occupation 
of' tlw l'hilippinos in World War 
II. Tlw gold had been lootr•d by tht) troops during thn war. 
In Ttu~sday's dr\cision, tlrn high mu rt also ordered anoth­er hnaring to determine the value of the Buddha statue. 
That and other gold hars originally wore valund at about $1.4 million. 
Justices also ordered another lrnaring to dctp,rminc the amount of prcjudgmnnt inter­nsl tho Atlanta-based Hoxas nstate was entitled to. 
The low11r courl originally said tho intnrost on the value of tlw gold should be calculatfld from tlw time 
lloxas filed his lawsuit in ·1 <J93. Tim estate wanted tlrn internst to be calculated from the time the gold allegedly was stolen in the mid-1970s. 
Cathcart has IO days to tile a rn0Lio11 asking tho high court Lo rc('()nsidl'r its decision. 
"It's not every day that you lose $43 billion," Cathcart said Ttwsday. 
J\ lawyer representing lrrrnlda Marcos asked the Hawaii Supreme Court in June to void the judgment because the 19% Circuit C()urt ruling in Hoxas' favor was based on evi­dence that he labeled "hearsay and double hearsay." 
Attorney Lex Smith also argued that Mrs. Marcos was not the person legally in charge of her late husband's estate. The estate has been tied up by Urn Philippine govern­ment since 1987. 
Hoxas died mysteriously on tlrn eve of the 11)93 trial in llonolulu. 
llis dnath in the Philippines was attributed to tuberculosis, but an autopsy and toxicology tests were not performed. 
¦ CANADA 



Hells Angel leader on trial 
Alisocimed Press 
MONTREAL 
A reputed Hells Angel.· leader believed to be a key figure in North America's bloodiest ongoing motorcycle gang war went on trial Tuosday, accused of ordering the killing of two prison guards. 
The trial of Maurice "Mom" Boucher got under way before a sequestered 12­rfletnb1ir jury -the first time this decade the precaution has been ordered for a Montreal jury. 
Moro than 60 people have been killed since 1994 in bombings and shootings linked to a power struggle between the Hells Angels and the rival Rock Machine ga.ug for ('Ontrol of Quebec's illegal drug trade. 
Most of the victims have .. been gang members or hang­ers-on, but an 11-year-old boy was killed by a .biker . bori1b three years ago, and last year two prison guards were shot dead, allegedly on. .Boticher's.orders. 
. Diane Lavigi1e, 42, was shot' .. excused to care for her pets. by a passing motorcyclist as The presiding judge, Jean­she drove home from work in Guy Boilard, had announced .June 1997. Pierre ,6.o.ndeau, . earlier that th,ejurors would 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
49, died in a hail of bullets from two gunmen three months later as he drove a prison bus. 
Almost as soon as proceed­ings began Tuesday, the prosecution ca.lied its key wit· ness, Stephane Gagne, a f'or­mer Hells Angel sentenced to 25 years in prison after admitting to shooting Lavigne. He recounted the attack and is expected totes­tify over the next several days that Boucher ordered tho killings t-0 send a message to guards not to interfere with gang activities in prison. 
Other former gang mem­hers also are scheduled io testify during the trial, which is expected to give the public an unusual inside vfow of the gang's operations. 
The jurors wet'e selected Monday and Tuesday out of a pool of 250 candidates, more than halt' of whom asked to be excused. 
One woman. whose initial request to be excused for health reasons was denied, burst into a screaming fit when another. woman was he sequestered in a hotel throughout tho trial, expected to last four weeks. to shield them from outside intluonces and help protect their anonymity. 
Hules for the Jurors include no din1ct contact with their families, watchirig TV only in a group and reading newspa­pers purgod of any roports on the trial. 
Boilard ordered sequcstra­tio n in part becausn of' a court-commissioned survey of 2,000 prosp1ictive Jurors last month. in which 82 percent of th<;1 rcspond1mts said they would be afraid to sorve as jurors in the trial of an alleged organized crimo leader. 
During preliminary court appearances. the 45-year-old Boucher was kept in an enclosure of bulletproof glass. and virt\1ally evHryone entering tho courtroom was searched. 
While awaiting trial, Boucher stayed in a wonwn's prison, in an otherwise empty wing that underwent several hundred thousand dollars worth of security improve­ments, in order to keep him away from other gang mem­bers in men's prisons. 





VIEWPOINT 
If You Want Peace 
If you want Peace, work for Justice, said Pope Paul VI. To kill the innocent, to oppress the helpless, to defraud the wage earner, and to commit acts against 
Gabriel Martinez 
human nature -these are sins that cry out to Heaven. Injustice, by its very nature, demands reparation. As griev­ances build up, hearts are hardened by pride, greed and envy; meanwhile roads of peace close before the virtuous -and the clay of reckoning approaches. This orderly injustice -which could never be called peace -erupts into violence. Yet if all men and women are open to the grace of God, if they are willing to love one another, and if they build on truth, justice and most importantly, charity, they will find solutions of peace. 
If you want Justice, spread the Faith. As John Paul II says, man can only be understood in the light of Jesus Christ, the God who made man and who was made into a man. If God Himself became man and died and rose for the human race, it follows that we are priceless in the sight of the Lord. Human beings are made precious, a little lower than the angels, by the God who breathed life into them. Murder, oppression, fraud and sodomy cry out to heaven because they trample on and spit upon the value of the human person. Injustice, then, happens because people ignore a basic truth ­that human beings have intrinsic worth, and a basic obligation -that we must love one another. • 
We would have a just world if every single human being went beyond strict justice and loved to the extrnme, in his or her own state of life, as our Christian faith teaches. Envy and greed, pride and sloth, anger, lust and gluttony would dis­appear if the God of Love and Truth were present in every human mind and in every human heart. Social injustice is the accumulation of personal sin: sin is the refusal to let God rule. Faith makes sin evident and commands the faithful to its eradication. 
If you will spread the Faith, live Charity. The world will only change if the revolu­tionaries are pure of heart. There will be true evangelization only if the Gospel has taken root in the missionaries, in lands far off and in cities nearby. The Works of Mercy can only be preached authentically if there is mercy in our souls. Truth can only be proclaimed if our minds and our actions are free of falsehood. 
Through faith we know that it is our duty to transform the world by revolu­tionizing ourselves. Through faith we know that for a good society the neces­sary and sufficient condition is good peo­ple -people, that is, who do their best and utterly depend on God, who give and do not count the cost, who seek to under­stand rather than to be understood, who love God above all and love neighbor as God loves us. Through faith we know that we are called to do much more than our part. A zealous and living faith breeds justice in the same way that justice breeds peace -by necessity. 
Honor the members of the Notre Dame Marching Band by paying attention to them while they play this Saturday. I ask you this in light of the value of the human person, in which we all believe. Throwing food during halftime may be fun, but it is wasteful (think of the victims of Hurricane Mitch), and it is very disre­spectful to those men and women -stu­dents like us -who work so very hard for our enjoyment. They do not deserve to be ignored. What would Jesus do? 
Over the weekend there was danger of 
a war waged by the international com­munity on Iraq. If you want peace, work for justice. The government of Iraq has proved its vocation to war. The Nations of the world, united under one banner, have tried to prevent this belligerent power from gaining access to illicit means of war (chemical and biological weapons). Iraq has proved it has no respect for these parameters of justice: let there be no surprise if peace is broken. Yet this attitude from Iraq is a cnnsequence of other injustices committed against its people by the world and the Iraqi govern­ment itself: let there be no surprise if, confused, Iraqis choose solutions which are not of peace. If you want justice, spread the Faith. 
NOTE: I want to ask for the forgiveness of those who, like Rev. Craig A. Satterlee, were unjustly offended in my last column. Rev. Satterlee thought himself alluded to by the phrase "heretical neighbor." As he says, my neighbor he is, a heretic he is not. A heretic is one who was brought up in full communion with the Catholic Church and later separated him/herself by denying a basic truth of the faith or by obstinately doubting it (Catechism of the Catholic Church, # 2089). Rev. Satterlee and other non-Catholic Christians like him have (presumably) never been in full communion with the Church: then he cannot be a heretic. Therefore, if I unin­tentionally offended him or others, I oiler my apologies. 
The point of my reference to Luther and Calvin is to liken them to those who dissent in matters "which must be believed with divine and catholic faith" (CCC #2089). These persons, brought up in the Catholic Church, have separated themselves by disbelieving what the Church teaches must be beliewid; fur­thermore some of them teach disbelief, therefore putting other souls in danger. 
Pelagius, Arius, Luther, Calvin and these heretical neighbors separated themselves from the Church who saves them. That there is a sin involved in sepa­ration is clear from Chapter 1 of the Letter of St. Paul to the Galatians and from other places noted in the Decree on Ecumenism. There it is also said that "division openly contradicts the will of' Christ, scandalizes the world and dam­ages the holy cause of preaching the Gospel to every creature" (UR #1 I. Alas, as a very well known columnist in a very unread monthly noted, the heretic will not always accept that such disbelief ­coming as it does from one brought up in the Catholic Faith -is in fact heresy. Yet it is, and thn words of St. Paul ought to be a reminder of the peril of heresy to their own souls and to their hearnrs'. 
It was in no way my intention to insult our separated brethren. In the Decrne Unitatis Hedintegratio, which Hev. Sattcirlee quotes, the Church makes clear that she (and therefore all Catholics) will receive our Christian brothers and sisters with an open heart and open arms. Furthermorn, she states that "the chil­dren who are born into these Jseparatedl Communities and who grow up believing in Christ cannot be accused of the sin involved in the separation." All Christians are children of God by their humanness; even more, by Baptism they are in a cer­tain communion -more or less perfect -with the Church (UH# 3). Because they recognize the divinity of Christ, Protestants are particularly close to the heart of every Catholic. A consequence of all of this is that the Catholic attitude towards our separated brothers and sis­ters -those who have separated them­selves and those who have becm brought up separated -must be love and affec­tion, which implies steadfastness to doc­trine as well as kindness. 
Gabriel Martinez is a graduate student in the Department ofEconomics. I !is col­umn appears every other Wednesday. 
71ze views expressed in this column are those ofthe aulhor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ DOONESBUiW 
50/IKJONE ~l.f,,NO ATPHIPHAT a>/13 f:Jlff IJl<INK5AT 7/.1£ f)B. 
AU., PA?ReN? 
\
I 
ATTHe ll?AllmONAlFR.trP; rr!fi 7H/;, USUAUY7He0ll-{&R/AJAYA­IUHAT.? ROUNP. ON& GuYG7.llY~ S0/3eR ANP1A7Ei-R TeJ..t.~ t;V&RYON/3 UGE ~HAT7H&Y M/!35/W. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
G07Hl3YU 
HAVe Sc?~
WHAT 
(l)J.,t£C£ 
,#ft!,HOR/5,
FOR? ,_~.r?---A.... 
~-\ 
¦ Quon Of THE DAY 
'Just in terms of alloca­
tion of resources, reli­
gion is not very efficient. 
There's a lot more I could 
be doing on a Sunday 
morning.' 
-Bill Gates 
--~­




VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 18, 1998 
---------------------------page 11 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Sen. Bradley's Stance on Abortion Contradicts His Fight to Better the Co01D1on Good 
As an ollil:1!r of tho Notre Damu/Saint Mary's Hight to Lifo Club and a pro-lifer with ' D1•mocratic party inclinations, rfoll hid to atttlnd Bill Bradloy's rrr.ont town 11wcting ontitlrd "The Stute of Am1iricu's Childrnn." I hoped l.o exarnino tor mysell' how the l'ornrnr sr11ator's ideas about how to Pnhancf' the lives of' America's chil­drnn could bu roconcilnd with his acc1•ptancc of a practice that d1\tn!'ans the lives of' children in thi; womb. 
I attended Bill ilrndley's lecture with UH· knuwledgH that. contrary lo tlw ill-inforrruid opinion nxprnss!'d in a roccnt lcltHr to tho 
Pditor, ND/SMC Hight lo Ufo had nevnr nxprnssod any hostility towards Uradlny's visit lo Notrn Dame but rather had opposed his voting rec:ord on abortion. The dub 
had asked stu­d1111L<; to C<1nsider 1<,r th1)ms1•lvns \VhethN or not his unapologetic pro­abortirrn stance posod a conllict to his oth<•r efforts to 
C!lllSlrIJI'.{ a more 
just sodety. 
Bradley's defini­tion of litmily val­Uf!S as a lPrm rnlinnt upon not only thll i,xistence or a loving, two­parent home bul also the opportu· nity of accnss to 
adnquatr. wages, health caro and child cam resonated with me. l agreed with his insistence that wel­fare rnform should concern itself with maintaining the bond between mother and child and not forcing nflW mothers tu find work. I agreod with Bradley's view that quality f•ducation rPlies upon fodernl com­mitment to each individual child, a morn just distribution of rnsources among schools und the enforcement of national educational standards. 
But even IL'i I found mysnlf nod­ding, I did so with an enormous lump in my throat. realizing with certainty Lhat mme of those ad111irahll1 mrasurcs would ever attain tnw success in improving the ftuulity of lilt! f'or t\nwrica's diil· drnn. Why not'! /\II of thcsn rrrna­suros are rrliant upon om· int<'grnl virt1w: ruspnd for llw dignity of thti lil'n of' each individual child. I think I nm t·orr,ict in saying that Rill Bradlt'Y would not (:oncern himself wilh ir;1provi11g thu livos of Anrnrica's d1ildr<'n if lw did not lrn!ievu lhat C\ach child possesslls thal inhorenL dignity which makes hirn or IH•i-worthy of tho lrnst that socility can offer. Hut since the 1'Jn Supn•11w Court dllcision Umt lngaliznd lhP prar.tirn of abortion, our soci1ity -and yos, Bill Bradley indudml -has bnen teaching Anrnricu's children a vory dilfonml losson. Wn'vo bl'on teaching tlmm timt each child's life has dignity ... 
unless he is concoivod at an incon­venient time. Each child's lifo has dignity ... unless her panmts had hoped for another gender. Each child's lifo has dignity ... unless his mother woul.d mther l'mish her <ml• lege degree. Each child's life has dignity ... unless hor mothor foets that her life would be a burden, I do not m<>an to und•1rmine the dill1· cult circumstances that c,."luse women to have abortions, but I do criticize Bradley's idea that elimi­nating the lives of' unborn childrtm is a legitimate way of coping with these circumstances. 
Basically, we cannot ascribe to such a conllicting st~t of values that 
'WE'VE BEEN TEACH­
ING THEM [AMERICA'S CHILDREN] THAT EACH CHILD'S LIFE HAS DIGNITY •.• UNLFSS HE IS 
CONCEIVED AT AN INCONVE­
NIENT TIME. EACH CHILD'S LIFE HAS DIGNITY •.• UNLFSS HER PARENTS HAD HOPED FOR ANOTHER GENDER. EACH CHILD'S LIFE HAS DIG-NrIY •.. UNLESS HIS MOTHER 
WOULD RATHER FINISH HER 
COLLEGE DEGREE. EACH CHILD'S LIFE HAS DIGNITY ••• UNLESS HER MOTHER FEELS THAT HER LIFE WOULD BE A 
BURDEN.' 
proposes tho enhancement of life outside tho womb while allowing for its destruction with­in tho womb without expect• ing repercus­sions. When w1i read the news stories about tccnagnrs throw­ing their new­borns into trash cans and young children gunning down their class· mates, I think that we are see­ing those reper­
cussions. As I lis­tened to Bill Bradley express his concerns about the vio­lence prevalent in schools today, l knew that no 
safety measure that he could over promote would counteract the les­son that America has buen teaching its children since 1973: U1atreally, not all life is worthy ofrespect. Our society allows -even advocates ­the right to destroy the livt~s of beautiful children with beating hearts ... 4,500 of those lives each day, to be exact. If we are li-ee to destroy some of our most vulnera­ble members of society before birth, what stops us from thinking oflifo as something easily discarded and disrespected after birth. as well" 
To those faculty and students who would nrguo thl\t Bill Bradley's abortion stanr:e has nothing to do witl1 the other admirable causes he is promoting, I challenge you to examine the possibility that the ubuse, neglect and violence raced by many children today is u product of a disresprctf\11 altitude towards life in general. If BilJ Bradley allows destruction of lite in the womb to continuo, can he legitimately con• tribute to the construction of a soci­ety that enhances the lives of aH of America's children? As a Democrat who soos respect for lifo as essential to the promotion of the common good, my am,;wer would have to be 
"no.'' ­
Samantha Snyder 
Senior, Howard Hall 
November 17. 1998 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

We Must Not Do the Right Thing for the Wrong Reason 
1am writing this lcttnr in response to Tim Byrne's pinco Pntilled "Catholic Character from Orthodoxy or Justicll, Compassion," which appeared in Tho Observer dated Nov. 
17. In this column Byrne rightly calls our attention to the relation of doctrinal ortho­doxy to actions towards our fellow human beings. Although 1 !ind myself in general sympathy with his overall desire to see Notre Oame as a community in tho fullest sense or the term, the way he sets up the issuo -orthodoxy vs. compassion and jus­tice -may lead to a community devoid of any Catholic cont(\l1t, doctrinally or morally, including the virtuns of charity and justicP. Put simply, then. my rear is that Tim Byrno wants us to do the right thing for the wrong reason, which. as T.S. Eliot noted, is tlrn greatest treason. 
Byrne's presupposition is that there is an inherent tension between fidelity to the Church's doctrine and living compassion­ately towards others. This assumption, in turn. underwrites I.he distinct.ion he makes between what he calls "central and periph­eral doctrines." With this distinction in place, he proceeds to argue that we at Notre Dame are now left with a choice that he describes by saying, "ls strict orthodoxy more important than our respect for the dignity of othor persons? ls the Catholic Character of this University to be gauged by its orthodoxy or by its justice and its com­passion? Do we take Pharisees for our par­adigm or do we emulat(i Christ?" 
Since his training is as a philosopher and not a theologian, Byrne overlooks some of the problems that his way of framing tlrn issuo poses for what it means to be a Catholic institution and a Catholic person. I would like to point out two examples of this tendency. 
First, Byrne suggests that there is an intrinsic tnnsion between doctrinal ortho­doxy and justice and compassion towards others. The problem with this formulation is that it seems to suggest that we as Christians can know what true justice is apart from the wider contoxt of Christian faith and pradice. As the moral philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre rominds us. there is no single, a-historical conception of justice available to all people through some mythic "common sense." Rather. notions of justice are part and parcel of' widor social b,~lids and f'ramoworks. When applied to this dis­cussion, it would mnan that Catholic vinws 011 oquity and fairrniss nocessarily llow l'rom a wider set. of lwlicf's about Cod, humanity. and their relationship. Tho common nanw for theso understandings is "doclrinn." Thus lhn attnmpt to s1\t doctrine in tension with justice turns out to be a pitting of orrn doc­trinally informed concnpt.ion ofjustic1i against anotlrnr similarly inf'ormnd concep­
tion of' juslic<i. 
Second, Byrne posits a distinction between "central and poriplwral doctrinos." lln fails. however, to provido any cril11ria by which orrn can discern which doctritws lit into nach catogory. Without such critnria in place, his selection of spncilic doctrines appears to be nothing less than arbitrary. To push tlrn point further, I doubt wlwtlwr it is possible to formulato any such criteria which do not themsP-lv11s appnar capricious. Thn reason why such is the casn is that Christian dogma is an intricate tapestry in which various strands arc woven into a uni­fied wholn. To change tlw mntaphor, tlrn attnmpt to strip Catholic doctrine down to its core is a bit like trying to find the corn of' an onion: if you strip away the layors, you are IP.ft, not with a core, but with nothing. 
1apologize to Tim Byrne for this critique bccausn it seems lo me that one or tlrn nm­sons lrn has formulatnd his position in this way is that hn has entered into an argunrnnt that is alrnady polariznd along the lines Ill' exhibits in his article. If true dialogtw is to tako place about what it nrnans for Notre Damn to bn a community, then it will bn nncnssary for both sides lo rethink how tlrny should articulate their positions. For thosP on tlw right, such an effort should nnlail a fullnr articulation of' how justice and l'harity are to bn nxprnssnd in their fulhrnss in light of Catholic teaching. For thosn on tlw ldt, it is incumbent upon them to show how thnir notions ol' justice and charity am not in opposition to Catholic dogma. hut actually flow from it. 
Stephen B. Wilson 
(;raduate Student Department ofTheology November 17, 1998 
A Call for Class and 
Respect 
The throwing of duad animals in the stu­dent section at football games has to stop. We realize that no amount of public outcry will stop the individuals who are disturbed enough to bring dead animals, sit with them for a few hours, and finally launch them into a crowd of their fellow students, but total silence will Cl~rtainly accomplish nothing. 
As members of' musical ensembles at Notre Dame we would first like to voice our support for tho Notre Dame Marching liand. We appreciate the long hours that you dedicate to bringing music to Notre Dame Stadium, and we undnrstand how disrespectful and distracling the student section's rPcent bohavior is to you. lfwe were in your position we would certainly b<i as frustrated as you am. We promise that none of our 331 eollnctive members will participate in bringing dead animals into the stadium. nor will we aggravate the problem by throwing them again if they land noar us. As this is the snninr band members' last chance to play for tlrn stu­dent body in tho stadium. it is also the last rhance for many ol' us to watch you and enjoy your talents. We will do everything we can to restore order to the student sec­tion of the stadium. 
llnwever. morn serious than the disre­spect done to the Marching Band in recent weeks is the absolute horror or thn activity itself -Notre Dame students throw around dead animals to amuse lhemsnlvns at hall' time. The great majority of Notrn Damn and Saint Mary's students want tlrn madtrnss to end before Nov. 21. llow,wer. our influnncn as students is limited, since obviously common sense flHI normal human consideration will not stop a minority ol' tlrn student body f'rom continu­ing to disgust and 1rndangnr all those around thnm in tho stadium. Wn am doing what wo can as students. and we hdi1wc that if the administration bnconins morn vocally involved in helping this problt)m wn will all be abln to enjoy our last ganw in lhn stadium without lhn fear of ]wing hit hy llyi ng fish. 
We havn so many wonderful traditions lwrn al Nolro Damn, onn or tlw most important bning our rnputation as an intnl­ligent student body with class. Let's com,i together to recover this reputation lwf'ore a few individuals damagn it any furtlrnr. 
ND Chorale ND Folk Choir ND Glee Club ND Handhell Choir ND Liturgical Choir ND Women's Liturgical Choir Novemher 16, I998 

O
THE 
page 12 --------------Wednesday, November I8, 1998
BSERVER 

The Observer/Emmett Malloy 
Lead guitarist Kevin Cadogan steps in the spotlight as Third Eye Blind performs "London." 
Third Eye Blind asks ND: How's It Gonna Be? 
For the first time in many shows that Notre Dame has offered to students. a concert was sold out at Stepan Center. Third Eye Blind, with special guest Eve 6, played on Wednesday, Nov 11, in front of a sold out crowd of more than 1500 stu­dents from Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross College. Third Eye Blind gave a performance that was like many otlrnr rock/alternative concerts with loud, fast-beat music that would have any crowd going wild. Well, l\otre Dame didn't exactly do that; many just stood them in front of their S(~ats with absolutely no enthusiasm and watched Third Eye Blind play for a couple hours. This was the first concert 1 have been to at '.\lotre Damn. and I can say nothing ebc than this concert was disappointing. Let. me correct that­the students at the concert were disappointing. Third Eye Blind gave us an excellent show; many did not even realize that this band actually plays other songs than "Semi-Charmed Life" and "How's It Gonna Be." The show began at 8:00 with Eve () performing first and trying their hardest to get the crowd a little hyped up for the Third Eye Blind performance. Stepan was packml by show time with everyone in his or her seat. Eve 6 performed for a littln more than half an hour, playing a sot. list of about six or seven songs that inducted tlwir currr,nt hit "Inside Out." Eve 6 is a pret­ty 1ww hand. so many stud,mts wPre not familiar with any of their songs. This led to a pretty calm crowd for much of their performance that bad somewhat of a peak during "Inside Out." /\fter their performance, at approximate­ly 8:40 they left the stage and crews began preparing the stage for Third Eye 13lind. I was quite surprised at the low ferdback that the audienre gave Eve 6, but I thought it was mainly due to their sudden fame and not 1.Jeing as popular as Third Eye Blind. I had no idea that tlrn crowd would ac1 thn same during the headline band of tlw evening. As evnryone sat in anticipation for Third Eye, Stepan's nice rows throughout the arena were filled with security guards. Security guards who students gave as much respect to as if these men were actual police officers. By the end of the show l felt like I need-
The crowd: apathetic 
song. "Good For You," "London," "Losing a Whole Year" and "Narrolepsy" followed. During "Narcolepsy," lead singer Stephan Jenkins sat in a recliner chair on-stage drinking a lJOttle of wine and 
singing. The song later pir.ked "Graduate." The hand left thr, up and he jumped out of his stage at the conclusion of' the chair to finish the remainder song only to hear the stu­of tlw song standing. dents of' Notre Damn raisn 
Meanwhile students were their hands to the air and still standing in front of their wave them around their !mad chairs all nice and neat and like we do when the l'ootball all uf the aisles still had plenty toam is about to kickoff. I of room in them for people to think Third Eyn Blind was gnt closer to the band. The expecting the classic hun­band tlum played one of their dreds of' lighters in tlrn air, B-sides "Horror Show," which but since there is no smoking can I.Je found on the single in Stepan Center, tlwy worn "How's It Gonna Be." Many not going to get that. times throughout the show, Thn encore began with a Stephan Jenkins talked to the grnat cover of' U2's "I Will crowd and told the students to f.ollow,'' followed by the song "%$#& tha security guards," that Third Eye Blind ends all "Ai least stand on the chairs," of' tlrnir concerts with, "God "You're all being brain­of' Wilw." During this song, washed,'' and "Take off that Jnnkins poured out thn Abr-rcrombie shirt." Many of remainder of the bottle of' these lines came from him wino that Im had IJe()ll drink­trying to get the crowd to go a ing tlrn nntire ronccrt. little more crazy and have· The quality of Third Eye people start dancing. Third Blind's music has lrnlped Eye followed by keeping them be known for tlrnir things fast with their current excnllnnl live concerts. Tlwy
The Observer/Emmett Malloy J
hit "Jumper." gave Notre Dame nothing )ut The songs thrn slowed Vocalist Stephan Jenkins jams on "Thanks A Lot" thnir bnst and hopncl that 

down for a bit with the band performing "The Background" and followed with Stephan Jenkins alone on st.age playing "I Want You." The spark from the crowd began to rise as they played their hit single "How's It Gonna Be." This song marked the point that I was asked to leave the arena for danc­ing in the aisle with one ol' my friends. Security guards were in full force and tolerated no misbehavior from any of the students. 

The Observer/Emmett Malloy 
ed talking about drugs and sex to build up to one of their last songs of' the ev,ming "Semi-Charmnd Life." This song marked the high point of the conc8rt for many students. They followed with their last hit single 
everyone enjoyed tho show. The only problem was that Urn students gavn thnm no sign that th1)y wpre enjoying tlrn show. 
Bands play to the crowd, and play louder and with more enthusiasm when a crowd is very rambunctious. The closest students canrn to being loud and crazy came when everyone stood on tlwir chairs for half' of' a song, only to be told to get down by tho ushers. Tlwrc was a group of about 30 or 40 people in th11 very front and center of Stepan that wcro dancing and having a grnat time the whole show. 
This was the first. concnrt that I have over br,nn to that I lefi with my shirt still dry, all the chairs still nicely intact and not having a raspy voice from ynlling so loud. 1can understand tlrn lrnhavior of tlrn st.udnnts if we were at a Yanni concert. but this was Third Hye Blind-a rock/alternativo band that has concerts where people dance and mosh and crowd-surf. 
I know Notre Dame has tlw potential to act this way bncause I have seen many of' you go a lot more crazy at home football games than you did on Nov 11. We even crowd-surf after evnry touchdown when studnnts do push-ups on the hands of their friends. A lot of' stu­dents, including myself, wonder why Notre Damn will not have any big bands comn back like Dav11 Mattlwws or Barcnaked Ladios. 
Why would they want to com11 back? If tlrn crowds at these concerts wern anything lik1\ the one I witrwssnd, I think we all can expect to twvnr see bands return lrnre again. Maybe the blame should be placed on tlw security for being too strict and not allowing us to have fun. I was asked to calm down and stop dancing nearly four or five times bnforn I was finally escorted to tlw 
Bassist Arion Salazar and vocalist Stephan Jenkins strike a pose during "Good For You" back of' Stepan. Whatnvnr it is, I hopn tho nnxt rock, 
rap, or any concert at Notre Damn will be a lilt.IP morn eel to raiSI\ my hand and ask these guards permission I was able to remain on the premises for the spontaneous and wild for all that att<rnd. to use the restroom. remainder of the concert because I told Security that I 
Third Eye Blind took the stage a littlr, before 9:00 was reviewing the concert for The Observer and he felt 
and opened with "Thanks A Lot." This song got the bad for me getting kicked out. At this point, Third Eye crowd tn moving, and I sensed potential for all of the Blind began to jam on stage and did part of a cover of' 

Corey Hartman 
,hairs to Im thrown in the back of Stepan by the next Ice Cube's "It Was A Good Pay." Stephan Jenkins start­

Wed ncsday, No\·emher 18, 1998 OBSERVER page 13 


U2 
The Best of 1980-1990 
Island Ilecords 
**** 1/2 (out of five) 
Gravity Kills' noloriPty began wilh a last 111in11ll' ,,ntry of' tlw single "(;uilty" on a 1·0111pilalion for a radio station. Thn pulsing l)('af of' llwir music was the lmsis for tlw lirst sl'lf-tillPd album afl!ir signing wit.h TVT 1!1•t·ords shortlv aft1\r lhn rnlnasP of "(;uilty." " ThP (;rnvily Kills sot11HI began lo catch on. ratd1i11g Lill' aw•ntion of l.hn Sex Pistols, who li1wcl th1•m up l'or a slot 011 llrnir I<JCJ(i tour. The hil singll' "(;ui!ty" Hhal stayed on llw modern nwk diarls f'or six months) appParecl on sound­trarks l'rom Sl'1w11 and HscafH' From IA while "(;oodbyn" (off tlw debul) was placed 011 thn Mortal Ko111/1at soundtrack. Tlwir now album. l'Pl'Vl'rsion shows <;ravity Kills' in<TPasing unity a~ a hand ratlwr than l'our guys who will be l'l'lllPtllhnn•d as a onP-hit-wonder. J'1·n•1·rsi1111 is not a rontinuation of "Cuilty" but 1111 aggn•ssivP album with, thumping t(ichnn and i11dustrial IH•ats. lu•avy guitar driven smmrls and morf' 11oisP than tlw d1ibut.. Tlw soco11d rncord, l'1•rr·,•r.,;io11, wil h its a11gsl-riddn11 lyrics and puls­ing bass h1•ats is m1ll'h mor1• lhan strictly "indus­tri,d." Hatlwr. (;ra\'ity Kills' musk is inlrnrnntly g11ilar driVf'll wilh 1-lnl'tronic enhancPnrnnt. "Falli11g," tlw tirst singll' hit off l'!'rversion, com­1Ji1ws IIH• IIH'll,u·i11g vocals of lead singer, .Jl'ff" ,-;f111•1•l. with loud and grinding guitar i-;numls that f'us1• 1•lp1·tronir. and guitar rol'k, cn!ating a dncid­l'dly ll!'W slant on industrial music. l>ark. f'on•hoding lyrics contimw throughout tltP album. t.hrobhing with tlw bnats of' "Wantnd," pul~;lling with "/\tiVP" and P11ding with Urn dark Junior high -you're Bn years old, danr,ing with your first "real" boyfriend or girlfriend in a crowded school gymnasium. Swaying amongst a swP.aty sea of' prepub1-1scent bod­ies as U2's "With or Withoul You" blares over the rickoty speakers, you wrap your arms around that spncial sonrnom1 and think, "Bono's right, I can't live with or without you." The l'unny thing is, at thii-; moment you truly believe it. Thorn's something about that song, when gui­tarist, Tho Edgo, launches into tlw swirling gui­tar riff. that brings me back to those days: when the light from tlrn disco ball would move in lime with tlrn music, making the room seem like it's spinning. It's clumsy moments like these that memories arn made of. It's cheesy moments like those that makn tlrn members of U2 rock icons. Wlrnthor you like U2 or not, they arc part of our history. Just as the Beatles and the Holling Stones dolinod rock-n-roll in the '60s and '70s, U2 invented the "European invasion" punk sound of tlrn '80s. Aftor more than 75 million albums and 20 years since their l'ormation in 1978, U2 cele­brates their extraordinary history of' success With the release of their lirst retrospective album and new single. The fourteen-track album U2 The Besl qf 1980-1990 was lirst rnleased on Nov 3 as a limited edition double-CD, with a bonus CD featuring 15 of U2's B-sides from the '80s. The regular edition single pack, which offers 14 clas­sic songs, is now available in stores. The opening volume in a series chronicling the history of tho band; the singln-CD is a compila­tion of U2 favorites, such as "Sunday Bloody Sunday," "Where the Streets llave No Name," "Desire," and tho afore mentioned "With or Without You." Says Mark Marot, managing director of their record company. Island UK, "This is something we'vo wanted to release for a long time now. Wo're enormously proud of thn band and our long association with them, so this. album really 
is a celebratory moment.. I believe it also rnvoals 
the extraordinary strengths of' U2's music, with each track still sounding as fresh and pownrf'ul as the day t.lwy wern originally rocordml." 
The CD also features a 1ww single cal111d "Sweetest Thing," a song originally intendnd to be on The Joshua Tree album. but. was not fin­ished in time. A simple song op1ming with tho soft chords of a piano, "Sweetest Thing" lacks tlrn hoavily processed sound of nchood guitars, which are trademark o!' U2's stylo. l'lacnd among such other powerhouse hits, it dons not stand out as one orthe band's grnatnst achievements, but remains a solid track. 
The second CD, available only in tlw limited edition, is a great compliment. to th11 first, foatur­ing hard-edgo punk hits like "Spanish Eyes," "Silver and Gold" and a jamming rnndition of "Everlasting Lovn." Likn most of' tho othor songs on the CD, Pach has a sort of' hollow sound to it, as ii' you were eavesdropping on the band during one of Lhoir sound clrncks in a largo, empty arena. One of' my favorites, howovnr, is track number live, tlw nwlodic instrumental "Bass Trap," which has a soft and dreamy Pink Floyd sound to it. Although the B-sides CD earrins many songs that may b11 unfamiliar to the casual U2 listener, thesn songs make the limitnd edition well worth the extra money. 
If you are unable to find it, stick with the single CD. It offers your favoritn U2 songs from the breakthrough albums War (198:1) and 11w Joshua Tree (1987), as well as otlrnr U2 albums from the decade, making l/2 The !1es/ of l 9H0­1990 a must have for your collnction or classic rock CDs. 



Kelly Cooney 
and haunting sound or "Belief'." The tnchno boats of the album arn packl1d with energy while the screaming lyrics arn dark and foreboding. 
Tho band, though, comes alive on stagH and quickly became orni or the best livo acts erupting in concnrt. The beats and lyrics are catching, enough to make your head nod. The irresistiblP lyrics r.ombi1wd with lhe thumping ol' the bass, keyboard, drums and hPavy guitar definitely make (;ravity Kills an acl to catch. 
Although Gravity Kills exploded onto the scene with the "Guilty" single, Penwrsion does the job or keeping Gravity Kills rolling in tlrn industry. The St. Louis-basPd band is, by far, the most suc­cessful from the SL Louis music scene, playing packed clubs with sold oul audiences. Perversion also upped the antP with songs off the album playing in radio stations aroum(Urn country. 
Gravity Kills went above trying to surpass their single "Guilty" to creating an album that will hopel'ully make their mark in the industrial music scerw. The band d!rnsn't look likH Trent lfoznor and am not a Nino Inch Nails knock off. The sound of (;ravity Kills is loud, angry, thump­ing and most importantly, guitar driven. One thing is for surn, tlrn sounds of' Gravity Kills are sun• to mak1• your body move. 

Rhea Gertken 


In the spirit of the upcoming Christman season, the Music Scene offers some sage holiday. commentary from those prepubescent quasi-rappers., The New Kids On the Block. 
,., swear we got ourselves a party hara/Girls on the floor knows our posse at the door/Should I stop-Nab cool-Here's more/Of this song a funky Christmas melody/'Cause Jordan Kfeels oh so Chrislmasy/Throw your hands in the air/Kick the ballistics Santa Claus!" 
-"Funky Funky Christmas", taken from Me11y, Mer,y 
Christmas, an album "dedicated lo tha children of the world." 
., page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, November 18, 1998 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Graf finally returns 
Temple tops Wake Forest 
to top of her game 
Associated Press Owls' final field goal of Urn had 10 points against Templn. game. Temµlc closed the first half' NEW YORK
Associated Press won 14 of' their previous 17 Wake forest got back within with a l 0-2 run to get within meetings. Rasheed Brokenbornugh had 50-46 with 6:0l left on a low 32-24 and its defense early in VIUANOVA Seles, Novotna, SanchfJZ­16 points and No. 7 Temple post move by Rafael the second half let the Owls flnally playing without pain, Vicario, Zvercva and Coctzer overcame a 16-point deficit to Vidauretta, its last basket of climb back in it. They look beat Wake Forest 59-48 in the the game. Temple went 9-of-12
Steffi Graf is one match away have already qualified for lhe their first lead at 42-39 with from a berth in the season-end­Chase Championships. championship game of the from the foul line lo seal it, 9: 1 0 Ie ft on a 3-poinui r by ing Chase Championships. Graf, the 1995 Adrnnta win­Coaches vs. Cancpr Classic at while the Demon Deacons con­Wadley. 
"To be able to play through ner, had little trouble in the first Madison Square Garden. Linued to struggle againt the Ii was Tcmµlc's fourth :~­continuously without a break set, then won the ser,ond after Neither team bad a lield goal . Owls' match up zone. being pointer in 15 att,~mpts. a far would be welcomed," said Graf, over the final six minutes, but held scoreless over the game's cry from tlrn opnning-round
Fernandez rallied for a 4-3 lead. 
who beat Marv Joe fernandez Graf relied on a strong back­the Owls (2-0) came up with Iinal 3 l/2 minutes. win over Goorgetown when 6-3, 7-6, {7-4). in a first-round hand to bold off Fernandez 7 -4 the better defensive effort, Mark Karcher and Lynn Wadley made his first five 3s match Wednesday at 1he in the tiebreaker. holding the Demon Deacons (1-Greer each had 10 points for and finished 5-for-6 from i\dvanta Championships. Graf is 16-0 against 1) to four points over an 8-Temple, which trailed 30-14 beyond the arc. 
When Irina Spirlca lost to Fernandez, dropping only two minute span. with 4:08 let't in the first half. In the third-place game, fifth-seeded Monica Seles 6-3. 6-sets in 12 years. They took a 50-41 lead with Robert O'Kclley, who had 24 Illinois beat Georgetown 65-50 4 in a second-round match "I felt it was really close," Graf 6:43 to play on Quincy points in Wake Forest's open­behind 19 points of freshman Wednesday night. it opened the said. "I broke her a few times, Wadley's driving jumper, the ing-round victory over Illinois, guard Cory Bradford. 
way for Graf to qualify for the but she kept coming back. I elite 16-player tournament in knew that I couldn't make a lot 
¦ ABL
New York next week. of mistakes." 
Graf currently is 17th, but Said Fernandez, who has would pass Spirlea in the year-played in only eight tournaments 1ong points race by beating this season because of a wrist 
Rage silences Xplosion 
Elena Likhovtseva on Thursday. injury: "I felt that I could have 
Last weekend, Graf returned won the second set. I think she is 
from wrist surgery to capture playing well. She has endured so 
Leipzig's Sparkassen Cup much. I know how tough it is to 
Associared Press Tari Phillips led Colorndo with 16 points
lniernationat in her native come back. 
and rookie forwardAlisa Burras added 1J Germanv. "She has always come bark PHILADELPHIA points and nine rebounds. "I just have been feeling so 
and she always seems to get bet­Taj McWilliarns sparked a fourth-quarter Xplosion guard Edna Campbell, leading the much better, and I hope I can ter." run to lift the Philadelphia Rage to its second American Basketball League in scoring at 25 shake the injuries that have Likhovtseva beat eighth-seed­straight victory, 83-70 Wednesday night over points a game, didn't score her first basket slowed mv season," she said. ed Sandrine Testud, who retired the Colorado Xplosion. until 35 seconds into the final quarter and 
Grafs victory at Leipzig made in the third set due to a knee McWilliams scored four points during an 8-finished with seven points.her the top money winner in injury. 
0 run in a 2:44 span midway through the Consecutive three-point plays by Nagy and women's tennis with about Graf, recovering from nagging quarter that gave the Rage their biggest lead Edwards with two minutes remaining in the $20.5 million in career earnings, knee and wrist injuries, said she 
of the game, 73-62. first quarter vaulted Philadelphia to a 20-12 surpassing the $20.3 million by believed the Philadelphia-based Teresa Edwards led the Rage with 21 points lead. Martina Navratilova. tournament would be a good and eight assists and McWilliams finished Phillips scored consecutive baskets midwayIn earlier matches Wednesday, way to get back. with 16 points. Andrea Nagy and Cass Bauer through the second quarter to pull Colorado 
third-seeded Jana Novotna, the "The surface is a little differ­added 13 points each. to 31-30. 
1996 titlist and 1998 Wimbledon ent and there is always the 
champion, was upset by Natasha problem of dealing with the time 
Zvereva of Belarus 6-4, 6-4 and change," Graf said. "It would be 
fourth-seeded Arantxa Sanchez­great to get to the 
Celebrate afriend's birthday with an 
Vicario of Spain was beaten by Championships, but it just 
South Africa's Amanda Coetzer means enough to me to be able 
6-4, 6-1. Sanchez-Vicario had to keep playing." 
embarrassing photo ad in The Observer. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including aH spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­5 bedrooms, available now and tor 271-9412 Call Dave (651) 486-7498 chance with an unknown agency or WEST,PANAMA CITY.REPS NEED­next fall. 232-6964 some 1-800 number.Limited space
NOTICES 
ED/TRAVEL FREE.EARN WANTED i need lsu tix! call 634-3006 available.so book now! 
CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR Room for Rent in Turtle Creek ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Anthony Travel.Inc. THE COPY SHOP 6+. apartments.Call 273-2435. 271-1526 LaFortune Student Center LaFortune Student Center WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM I NEED LSU 631-7080 We're Open A Lot!!! 800-838-8203 ND Ftbl. tix TICS
FOR SALE 
Mon-Thur: 7:30 am -Midnight BUY-SELL x3054 Looking for a unique gilt? Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm 273--3911 Chris Sat Noon -6:00 pm CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­PREPAID PHONE CARDS Bring in 12 of your favorite pie-Sun: Noon -Midnight Workers earn up to $2000+/month 198MIN. $20 ND Football Tickets Needed. When you need copies, (wltips & benefits). World CALL 258-4805 AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 we're open! Travel!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000­
$7000/summer.Ask us how! 517-FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH COS! ND FOOTBALL TIX THE COPY SHOP 
Early Spring Break 336-4235 Bed box set. not available in FOR SALE MUST SELL! Lafortune Student Center Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise16 Ext.C55841 U.S. call pete at 251-0178. AM 232-2378 2 LSU tix, 40 yard line Days $27911ncludes most meals1 PM 288-2726 Face value O.B.O. Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs PHONE CARDS Cati Chris @ 634-3799 Full Color Desktop Publishing 
FOR RENT 
From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $20 buys 282 mins. Always buying and selling N D Services are now available at The Air.Hotel.Meals &Parties Contact football ttckets. 289-8048 I LSU GA needed. Will pay$$. Copy Shop in Lafortune. $3391Panama City Room With ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME Andrea -634-2584 Call Morgan @4-0807. Design, Scanning, Printing and Kitchen,7 Free Parties $129!Daytona FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY Dori -684-3339 Parents coming lo town and I Copying in COLOR! Room With Kitchen $149!spring­CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. MiMi -634-0907 need 2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4-4896. 2 LSU GAs for sale breaktravel.com call dave@ 1902 •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, 
1-800-678-6386 THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Pckrd Bell Need 4 LSU TIX BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING Breakfast Inn has space available for 120Mhz SOM RAM 1.2 g HD Pal@ x0680 2 LSU tix 4 sale 8.0. STUDENTS ·• Original student 
#1 Spring Break Specials!Book footbalVparent wknds.5 Rooms with CD, Mon., Spkrs. 273-1510 leave offer. group will hold SUPPORT meeting Early & Receive a Free Meal private baths,$80· ext. warranty WANTED: 2 AEROSMITH tomorrow 11 /19. Call info line for Pfan!!'Cancun & Jamaica $115,Middlebury,30 miles from cam­$500firm TICKETS, NEED GOOD SEATS. details. 236-9661. We respect confi­$399,Bahamas $459,Panarna City pus. 246-0781 271-9543 Need 1LSU ticket dentiality! $99. Toll Road,Exil #107 GA or student-call 
1-800-234-7707 1-800-418-9487 Mac 520 power book and courtney @288-1423 i hate computers!!!!!!! endlesssummertours.com image writer printer both NEED 4 LSU TIX BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­for $650. Call 287-7928 Call 312-951-5008 -EVE. SELLING 2 LSU GAs: this is not funny rooms-FB·JPW-GRAD 291-7153 243-2770 NEED 2 LSU GA'S. CALL kathleen and i are tired of sports
ILOST & FOUNn] 
1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR 257-1141. production
1 PERSONAL
CAMPUS GILLIS PROPER­
TICKETS
.................. FOUND**••• ............. 
TIES272-6551 I Need 2 LSU GAS why is there a curse on me? Big Set of keys @ Domino's on Call Fred 289-7136 "Don't Get Burned on Spring Edison on 11/6. 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. TICKETMART Inc Break" happy birthday arney.. no, i don't Call 271-0300 AVAIL NOW & FALL 1999. 272-BUY-SELL-TRADE Help my little brother see his first Spring Break Packages are going want to go out with you ... yet 6306 Notre Dame Football Tickets Notre Dame football game!!!! I need fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica 258-1111 two tickets (GA or student) for the Packages for the Class of '99!Stop in conflict resolution is fun 
WANTED 
WALK TO CAMPUS No student tickets please LSU game. Good chanoe to make at Anthony Travel in the LaFortune 2-SBEOROOM some CA$H! Call Tammy @ 284-Student Center and check out the iwish i were in bed 
•ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST 232-2595 5170 ASAP!!'!!! best Spring Break vacations SPRING BREAK PRICES TO FOR SALE around.Get your deposit In by no i do not have lice. SOUTH PADRE (FREE House for rent, 105 Marquette, FOOTBALL TICKETS 2 USC TIX for safe Dec.18 and save.Don't take a Need LSU tickets-Call Greg and lures and we'll create a custom color Paul at 234-7142 calendar. 
page 15 
Wednesday, November 18, l 998 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ NBA 
Rodman confirms his marriage to Carmen Electra 
Electra left "Baywatch" this
spokeswoman, said Manley's
Vegas Strip. Workers sworn to
marry somebody that was intox­
A~socia1cd !'res• statements were "inaccurate month for another beach show,
secrecy refused to cnnlirm the and untrue."
icated to the point that they "Hyperion Bay" on the WB net­
wedding.
couldn't speak or stand had
LAS VEGAS 
Hudman's marriage has not work.
Hodman has worn dresses io
ulterior motives of some sort,"
Yns, hn's married. No, n,,nnis Rodman 's foster parents, Pat
yet been recorded. The ministerHodman's agent, Dwight the past, and once even wore a
Hodman didn't wear a wedding and James Hich of Bokchito,
who performed lhe ceremony
full, white wedding dress to a
Manley, lold The Associated
dr11ss. has 10 days to submit the Okla., told Inside Edition they
book signing in New York City.
Press cm Monday.
Thtl bad hoy or thn NBA con­license to the recorder's office. It had met Electra and believe she 
To his wedding, Hodman wore
Manley said Hodman, 37, was
lirnwd Tuesday he marrind for­will be a good influence in
what looked like a police uni­is valid for one year.
taken advantage of by Electra
nwr "Baywalch" actrnss Carmen Basketball's had hoy and Hodrnan's life. 
form, a witness told the New
and people Im called "leeches." 
Elt,ctra on Saturday in Las Electra, 26, have been dating "I figurnd this could bo the girl 
York Post. Electra wore a dark­
But Hndman. in a handwrilten
Vngas. he marries," Pat Rich said. 
since the spring. 
colored pant suit. 
statement, said he was indeed in"I lovn Carnw11 and am proud 
Despite !Vlanlcy's claim that
love and apologizNl "for anylo hP marriml Lo lwr." Hodman 
Rodman was drunk, Cheryl
l'alse statements given on mysaid in 11 slat•inrnnl issund 
Vernon, supervisor of the Clark
behalf regarding my marriage to 
through his p11hlii:ist 
County Marriage License
Carnrnn Eloclra."
Hod man ·s ag1lnt had qu(is­
After getting a marriage Bureau, said a license wouldlioiwd whether tht\ marriage 
neVfir be issued to some.one who
license Saturday morning, the
was lr.i;al. saying tlw Chicago 
appearnd intoxicated. 
two exchanged vows at A Litlle Bulls star was drunk at th,, ti1rn1. 
Cindy Guagenti, Electra's
Chapel of the Flowers on the Las "Obviously, anyone that would 
The Off Campus Council, in conjunction with the Class of '99, presents: 
f 
... ~ 

. THE .• 
OFF CAMPU,~IU" 
PEP .RA.LL~ 
Dennis Rodman wed Carmen Electra, former "Baywatch" babe, on Saturday in Las Vegas. 
-
Friday, November 20, 4;15-6:15 P.M. Alumni-Senior Club 

rnl@[P[PJJ 
Join us at the Class of '99 dinner on Friday to pick µp your 
UIBulli 
priority seati,igpass for the L.S.ll.Il§P rallj. 
Seating is Ii1nited,JSO come early! 
[3fl~llitnmw11 
STOP BY RECKER'S ON WEDNESDAY BETWEEN I I-2 OR 4-7 
~[lCD[}~@~(S@Y
TO ENTER THE RAFFLE FOR A FREE TRIP TO USC. 
'Ule.4~~­
~. z>iu. ,I~& ~ 
@ejta1tnuml ()/ /c°uJ/ 1. r:/Jian _q}mffl(l?fJJ anti Pih11alti!lfJJ 
Courses in Chinese and Japanese Literature and Culture 
(Spring 1999) 
LLEA 250 (TH 2:00-3:15) Introduction to Chinese Literature 
LLEA 253 (HIST 221) (MWF 1:55-2:45) Introduction to Chinese Civilization 
(This course will be taught HERE at Notre Dame, NOT in France!) 
LLEA 356 (TH 3:30-4:45) Mirrors of the Floating World 
LLEA 368 (TH 13:30-1 :45) Self and Society in Modern Japanese Literature 
LLEA 370 (TH 3:30-4:15) 20th Century Chinese Literature 

Broaden Your education! Look beyond the familiar! 



page 16 The Observer. NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Wednesday, November 18, 1998 
No. I Duke victorious again in spite of turnovers 
Associated Press 
(l)Duke 94, Davidson 61 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Top-ranked Duke overcame its second sloppy offensive per­formance in as many games, riding a 27-point outing by Trajan Langdon to a 94-61 vic­tory over Davidson on Tuesday night. 
The Blue Devils, who had 19 turnovers in a season-opening victory over Fairfield, lost the ball 21 times against Davidson. 
But Duke countered its poor ballhandling with some solid defense against the scrappy but overmatched Wildcats. Duke harassed Davidson into 25 turnovers and 33 percent shoot­ing. 
Elton Brand added 10 points and eight rebounds for the Blue Devils and William Avery had 10 points, eight assists and four steals. 
Davor Halbauer and Chadd Holmes had 14 points apiece for the defending Southern Conference-champion Wildcats, who were playing their season opener. 
Davidson couldn't use unfamil­iarity as an excuse to be intimi• dated by the Blue Devils. The teams were original members of the Southern Conference and have played 94 times in a series that began in 1909. 
But while the Wildcats have had plenty of exposure to Duke, they don't have the talent or the depth to stay with the Blue Devils for 40 minutes. It didn't help that Ben Ebong, their best inside player, had to sit out the final 1 7 minutes of the first half after picking up two quick fouls. 
By the time Ebong came back on the floor, the Wildcats were already down by 19. They got no closer than 13 in the second half before Duke began pulling away again, stretching its lead to as many as 34 points. 
The Blue Devils took control by forcing seven turnovers over the last 4 1/2 minutes of the first half, powering a 16-3 run. 
Brand started the surge with a jumper in the lane and added four more points, two rebounds and a steal as the Blue Devils built a 46-27 halftime lead. Avery got the final two steals in the run by stripping the ball from Jeff Bergmann on consecu­tive possessions and going the length of thP floor for layups. 
The game was played at the Charlotte Coliseum, where the Blue Devils expect a substantial­ly larger crowd they return in March for the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. Tuesday night's game drew just 10,136 to a facility that holds more than 24,000 and is regu­1arly sold out by the NBA's Charlotte Hornets. 
***** 
(4)Kentucky 99, E. Kentucky 64 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Scott Padgett had 21 points and 12 rebounds as No. 4 Kentucky opened its quest for a third national championship in four years Tuesday night with a 99-64 victory over Eastern Kentuckv. 
In the·season opener for both teams, the Wildcats had all facets of their game clicking against the outmanned Colonels, who dressed only 10 players. Kentucky shot 56 percent (43-of­
77) from the field and outre­bounded Eastern 48-33, scoring 16 second-chance points to 10 for the Colonels. 
With the fast break running in high gear, the Wildcats had 26 assists, many ending in dunks. Saul Smith's fast-break pass to a soaring Heshimu Evans gave Kentucky an 89-48 lead with 
6:20 left and brought the Rupp Arena crowd to its feet. 
Kentucky played shorthanded itself. with Jamaal Magloire, Ryan Hogan and Myron Anthony sitting outsuspensions imposed
• 
by coach Tubby Smith for off­season troubles. The rest of the Wildcats more than picked up the slack, however, as six play­ers scored in double figures. 
Center Michael Bradley, start­ing in place of Magloire, had a career-high 13 points, Evans had 15 and Wayne Turner had 11. 
Freshmen Tayshaun Prince and Jules Camara each had 10 points, while Camara had 11 rebounds and all five of the Wildcats' freshmen saw signifi­cant floor time. Even walk-on Steve Masiello got in for the final minute, hitting a a-pointer with 10 seconds remaining to punctu­ate the rout. 
Freshman guard Whitney Hobinson led Eastern Kentucky with 21 points, including four 3­pointers, and point guard Darius Acuff had 13 points. Five Colonels played more than 30 minutes and only seven saw sig­nificant time. 
Smith said before the game that he was concerned about containing 6-foot-9 center Ronnie Griffin of the Colonels, but Padgett, Bradley, Evans and Camara were able to hold him to 3-of-14 shooting and seven points. 
***** 
(5)Michigan St. 99, Oakland 66 
ROCHESTER, Mich. 
Michigan State had three starters score more than 20 points, led by Charlie Bell's 26, and the fifth-ranked Spartans broke in Oakland's new arena with a 96-66 victory Tuesday night. 
Mateen Cleaves scored 21 points and Antonio Smith added 20 for the Spartans (2-0), who scored the first basket and never trailed. 
Dan Champagne scored 30 points for the Golden Grizzlies (1-2). who were known as the Pioneers before they moved up from Division II. 
It was a festive night in the 3,000-seat facility, located about five minutes from the Pontiac Silverdome in Detroit's northern suburbs. The building was sold out to overllowing and it was a pep rally atmosphere for the entire 40 minutes. 
Oakland's strategy against the bigger, stronger Spartans was to keep the game close by shooting from the outside. And it worked for a while. The Grizzlies, with a 17-10 run, closed the gap to 27 ­26 on Brad Buddenborg's 3­pointer with 9:57 left in the ftrst half. 
But Bell scored eight of l\lichigan State's next 13 baskets as the Spartans opened a 52-43 halftime lead. 
The Golden Grizzlies, hoping to build on their 72-71 upset of Illinois State on Sunday, were finally worn down by Michigan State's bench -one of the deep­est in the country -in the sec­ond half. After going 7-of-15 from 3-point range in the first half, Oakland was just 1-of-8 in the second half. 
Michigan State shot 57.9 per­cent and the Grizzlies shot 51.7, but the Spartans had a 38-27 edge in rebounding, 20-13 at the defensive end. 
***** 
(6)Maryland 90, UMBC 62 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Steve Francis had 17 points and eight assists Tuesday night as No. 6 Maryland cruised to its 60th consecutive non-confer­ence home victory, 90-62 over Maryland-Baltimore County. 
Terence Morris scored 19 points for the Terrapins (2-0), who placed four players in dou­ble figures in their second straight rout. Maryland opened with a 67-point blowout over Western Carolina. 
This game. was more competi­tive, but the outcome was never in doubt after UMBC missed 10 of its first 11 shots to fall behind 10-2. 
francis, a junior college trans­fer playing his second Division I game, had 11 points and five assists to help Maryland take a 23-point halftime lead. 
But the Terrapins led by only 19 with 14 minutes left before Francis keyed a 8-0 run that made it 65-:-38. The 6-foot-3 guard started the surge by feed­ing Laron Profit for an alley-oop dunk, then drove the lane for a jam. 
UMBC, with three starters bat­tling foul trouble, could not come back. 
Maryland shot just 39 percent in the first half but led 48-25 because because the Retrievers made only eight field goals, missed half of their 12 f'ree throws and committed 14 turnovers. 
It was 10-4 before Juan Dixon hit a 3-pointer and Obinna EkQzie scored on a follow to ignite an 11-3 run that put Maryland up by 14. 
At that point it appeared as if the rout was on, but UMBC closed to 24-16 and ttailed by only 11 points with five minutes left in the half. 
That was as close as the Retrievers would get. Ekezie made three foul shots, Dixon hit a 3-pointer and Profit ended a fast break with a dunk to spark a 13-0 run that made it 45-21. 
***** 
(8)Kansas 61, Pennsylvania 56 
PHILADELPHIA 
Freshman .Jeff Boschee scored five of his 10 points over the final 2:15 Tuesday night and No. 8 Kansas, playing in the Palestra for the first time in 41 years, escaped with a 61-56 victory over Pennsylvania. 
Boschee broke a 56-56 tie with a free throw with 2:15 left, then capped a fabulous point guard duel by hitting a jumper over Penn's Michael .Jordan to make it 59-56 with 70 seconds left. 
Jordan missed two shots in the 
Dean R({))che C({))rdialily invite§ all Arts and Letters §tudent and JP)eJr§JP)ective Art§ anJ Letter§ students t({)) attend an ({))]P<en f({))rumo 
Dean R({))che 9 tlhe Jean ({J)f the Art§ anJ Letters C({))llege9 wilil have an inf({))Jf'Jlll&li address anJ que§fn.({))n and an§wer session for all st-uurlents ~vho want t((J) V({)) ice tlheiir C((J)ncerns
o 
Kennedy Okafor led UMBC (0-lane, and Boschee sealed the 
2) with 14 points. The Retrievers Jayhawks' 23rd consecutive vic­are 0-10 against Maryland, los­tory in November with two more ing the last three games by a foul shots. combined 102 points. Eric Chenowith and Ryan 
Maryland's non-conference Robertson each scored 14 points home winning streak is second for Kansas (2-0). It was the longest in the nation behind .Jayhawks' second game ever in Oklahoma State's 78-game run. the Palestra and their first in the The Terrapins have not lost a state of Pennsylvania since Wilt non-conference game at Cole Chamberlain led them to 66-54 Field House since 1989. victory over St. .Joseph's in 1957. 
JltBASKETBALL 

Students: 
Last Chance Offer Basketball season booklets and 
ND vs. IU tickets on sale at the foil owing locations-Nov. 18-South Dining Hall 
Nov. 19-North Dining Hall Nov. 20-South Dining Hall (10:00am -2:00pm) 
Season Tickets-Only $44 ND vs. IU-$8 Pick up your booklets ... must show your student ID. 
\Vedne§day9 N ovellnherr 18 at 7 ~30]1J)m in the ILaF({))Jrtune 1Ballr({))oll1tllo Refiresh11Uent§ '1Yill lbe JP)roviJeJ.o 
Sn:,onsoreJ iby ....4..L§AC-die Arts .alllJ LeHea·s StuJenif AJwiis.r;n7 C~ounciil 

asmall fortune in student loans, you need \' 
acar that actually runs, and reality is waiting for you just around the next oend. 
offer a competitive salary, fantastic benefits, graduate school tuition reimbursement 1001 Technology Drive, and the opportunity tu Mt. Pleasant, PA 15666, work for a dynamic, Attn: Professional growing, Fortune 500 Staffing, or apply company 
You'll be challenged Jobs_Pittsburgh every day on your @ccmail.sgo. job. You'll have sonycom opportunity for advance1n.ent. And you'll be working SONY 
SONY TECHNOLOGY
in a great place, 
CENTER 
just outside 

You've come far. But you've got a lot further to go. Thats where SONY Technology Center comes in. 
If you're a junior or senior majoring in engineering, consider a career at Sony We Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania -the perfect-sized city, with countless cultural events and a great tradition of winning sports teams. 
Forward your resun1e to your schools placement office. Or, contact a 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, November 18, 1998 
¦ LEFT FIELD 
Baseball heads-towards financial Armageddon 
JOHN COPPOLELLA Sporrs Coll1mnis1 
I am trying to figure out which contract is more ridiculous: Dean Palmer's five-year. $35­million contract with the Detroit Tigers; Scott Bros.ius' three­year, $15-million contract with the New York Yankees; or Jose Olforman·s four-year, $26:mil­lion contract with the Hoston Bed Sox. 
All three of these contracts are reflective of where major league baseball is headed: financial armageddon. 
If contracts as lucrative as tlrnse are tendered to the likes of Palmer, Brosius and· Offerman, what will the offers br to Kevin Brown, Mo Vaughn, 
\lbert Belle. Bernie Williams and Randy Johnson'? In the wake of Mike Piazza's seven-v,•· r. $91-million deal with the \,,w York Mets, one has to won­der where the madness will end. 
The most ridiculous of the contracts has to be Palmer's pact with the Tigers. Palmer is a decent player, having hit .278 last year with 34 home runs and 119 RBIs. That was a standout
', 
' year for Palmer, however. This is a guy who has hit above .280 once (in a season where an injury allowed him less than 150 at-bats). has had over 130 strikeouts in a season in four of his pai;t five full seasons, has had more than 20 errors in six of his past seven seasons (he had 19 in the other season), and has no speed whatsoever. The most perplexing part of the deal? The Tigers. This is a team that is rebuilding with a lot of young stars. Players like Pobby Higginson, Juan Enrnrcion, Damion Easley, Tony Clark and Matt Anderson, among others, formed a young and rdatively cheap nucleus around which Detroit could 
build a championship-caliber team. Another prospect, Joe Randa, groomed to replace the traded Travis Frvman at third base, has also been denied his chance. 
The only rationale for such a signing'? Well, Detroit, like every other team in baseball, is mov­ing into a new park in a couple of years. They wanted to have an "impact signing" that would generate more fan interest (read: revenue) as the club moves into its new stadium. 
General Manager Handy Smith -the man who built the Padres into the World _Series­caliber team you saw this year before moving on to the Tigers -is normally a genius when it comes to allocating funds. But this move will come back to haunt him and the Tigers. 
Brosius' signing, perplexing in its own regard, is a result of his performance during the World Series, a titting culmination to his standout season in 1998. 
Consider this: discounting his 1998 season, Brosius' average was above .260 only once in seven seasons and he has never hit more than 22 home runs or stolen more than 11 bases. He was acquired by the Yankees for his defensive skills, which are very good. However, he was also seen as an insurance policy for a season or two until super­prospect Mike Lowell was ready to take over third base. 
Lowell is ready, and seeming­
ly will have to wait three years 
for his chance, assuming he is 
not traded. 
General Manager Brian 
Cashman caved to public pres­
sure here -what he should 
have done was let Brosius and 
his $5 million-per-year salary 
walk out the door. He and the 
YankPes could have usPd this 
money to re-sign Bernie 
Williams, a vital cog in the 
machine that is the New York 
Yankees. If Williams signs with another team, which he most assuredly will (bet on the Arizona Diamondbacks or Texas Rangers), the Yankees will have lost a superstar. In re-signing Brosius, they kept and overpaid for a marginal one-time hero. 

Offerman's contract with the Red Sox, although financially inflated, makes the most sense of the three signings. After com­ing to the Kansas City Royals from the Los Angeles Dodgers, Offerman has been a solid play­er. While he lacks power, his average has been over .300 in two of his past three years and has not been below .280 in his past four years. 
Even more impressive, his on­base percentage has been above ,380 in three of his past four years, topping out last year at .403. He will bat leadoff for the Hed Sox and, best of all. can play any infield position (proba­bly second or third base). 
As good as Offerman is, a con­tract for four years at $26 mil­lion is way above market value. 
General Manager Dan Duquette has done a fine job with the Red Sox -his only notable mistake was not resign­ing Roger Clemens -but he made a mistake here, even if it is relatively small in comparison to his contemporaries in Detroit and New York. Boston should have tried to sign him for less, saving any extra money for free agents such as Belle or Williams. 
Better yet, he should have anted up extra money to put together an offer that Vaughn could not refuse. Ultimatdy, the legacy of this year's free agents still remains to be seen. 
The top free agents still remain unsigned -their sign­ings will not only affect the bal ance of power in baseball for the respective teams they sign with, but more importantly they will dictate the sport's econom:c future. 



For tin1e and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. All Meetings are private and confidential. 
page 19
Wednesday, November 18, 1998 The Observer • NHL 
Blackhawks prey on Predators, end streak 
Class of 2000 
Special Events 
"Ragtime'' TiC' 
November 1:,· Showing in Ch;ii Tickets no-w on. 
at Lafortune fro k $35 (includes Ii 
Brought to you by the Class of2000 Council 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Tony Amonte scored his league-leading 13th goal and Mark fitzpatrick made 37 saves as the Chicago Blackhawks ended a 10-gamc winless streak Tuesday night with a 2-1 victory over the Nashville Predators. 
Amonte scored 6; 16 iuto the third period to make it 2-0. I le put a shorthanded wrist shot through Predators goaltender Mike Dunham's legs on the breakaway. 
Nashville's Cliff Ronning cut the score to 2-1 with his 200th career goal moments later. It was Nashville's first power-play goal in six games. 
Fitzpatrick stopped Honning and Scott Walker in the closing moments. 
The Blackhawks were 0-8-2 in their last 10 games and had been outscored 43-17 in that span. The last team Chicago beat was Nashville, on Oct. 24 at the United Center. 
Newcomers Dave Manson and Brad Brown, acquired in a trade with Montreal on Monday, made their Blackhawks debuts. Goaltender .Jocelyn Thibault, who was picked up in the same dnal, did nol play. 
Chicago's Alexei Zhamnov scored the only goal of the first period. a soft wrist shot on the power play from the high slot that went through Dunham's legs. Fitzpatrick made 15 sav11s in the period. It was only the second time this season thn Blackhawks had led after one period. 
Nashville played its first home game this month after going 3-3 in its season-long, six-game road trip. Tho expan­sion Predators are a surprising 6-9-1 but are winless against their own Central Division in four games. 
Chicago defenseman Chris Chelios missed the game with a groin injury. 

Go Irish Beat Butler 
PRESENTS A LECTURE  
H" spanic and the Hoosie  
A look  t  e Mexican American Co  • •unity 1n  
Michiana  ith  an  emphasis  on  Hispa  Business  
BY VA SANCHEZ  
THURSDAY, 11/19/98 COBA Room #161 3:45 to 5:00 p.m.  
Eva Sanchez i. a Notre D Healthy Comn nity Im the Hispanic A umni A. Amist_ad and b the Ce  /um who serves as a member <fthe . She is also a member ofthe His thm o_{Notre Dame. C · r Social Concerns a  ctorsfor Commerce and Casa de  


page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, November 18, 1998 
¦ BASEBALL 
Irish pull in five top-notch high school prospects 
Special to the Ob,erver 
The University of Notre Dame baseball team has signed one outfielder aud four righthandt>d pitchers to national letters of intent. fifth-year head coach Paul Mainicri announced today. 
The signees include lefthand­ed-hitting outfielder Brian Stavisky -the cousin of former Notre Dame pitcher Dan Stavisky -and pitcht>rs Mike Glozniak. l\latt Laird. Pat o·Brien and Peter Ogilvie. 
"We feel great about our class because we filled our needs." said Mainieri. "We brought in a big class of current frcshmcn-10 recruits. with seven non-pitchers -so we will have manv return­ing players for 1999. \V~ accom­plished our goals of adding an outstanding power hitter and four pitchers that could con­tribute immediately." 
The current Notre Dame squad includes just three seniors ­catcher and Irish career home run leader Jeff Wagner. righthanded pitcher Alex Shilliday and lefthander Chris '.'vlcKeown. 
"We also r:ould lose two juniors -shortstop Brant Ust and left­handed pitcher Tim Kalita to the pro draft, but we recruited two 
catchers last year to replace 
Wagner and thus Ust could be 
the only non-pitcher we need to 
replace," said Mainicri. "Wc·re 
hoping that Stavisky•s hitting will 
pick up for the potential loss Cst 
and finding replacemimts for the 
pitchers is critical. A great deal 
of our success can be attributed 
to deep pitching and these 
signees will step in and help con­
tinue that tradition." 
Stavisky has earned letters in 
four sports (baseball. basketball, 
football and golf), after spending 
his first two years at Oswayo 
Valley Iligh School before trans­
t'erring to Port Allegany. The 6-3, 
220-pound lefthanded hitter is 
known for his quick bat, overall 
athleticism and impressive 
power numbers. He has totaled 
56 home runs in l04 combined 
gac-mes on the high school and 
American Legion levels while his 
thrne-year high school stats 
include a .591 batting average, a 
.731 on-base percentage. 30 
home runs, 106 RBI. 102 runs. 
19 doubles, 60 walks and only 
eight strikeouts. 
In addition to his athletic pur­
suits, Stavisky is active in several 
school organizations and ranks . first in his class with a 4.0 GPA 
Glosniak. who attracted the 
Irish coaches due to his competi­
tiveness and tough curveball, helped Hinsdale Central High School post a school-record 28 victories in 1998 while advanc­ing to the quarterfinals of thfl state tournament. His 1998 sea­son included an 8-2 record. a 
UR ERA and 82 strikeouts in 66 innings. Tho 6-1, 180-pounder tossed the DuPage Area·s first seven-inning no-hitter while earning all-conference honors and becoming the only junior named to the All-DuPage Area First Team. 
During summer American Legion play, he went 7-1 with a 
l.51 ERA and 70 K's in 51 innings while earning recogni­tion as the starting pitcher on the Chicago Sun Times All-Summer League team. 
Laird, a highly-recruited prosper:t who is known for his tough changeup and clever pitching style, will join the Irish after being part of a Bellaire lligh School baseball program that has been ranked No. 1 nationally while producing sev­eral major-league players. among them Jim Gideon, Chuck Knoblauch and Jose Cruz. Jr. The 6-0, 185-pounder was thfl first freshman ever to pitch for the Bellaire varsity and owns a 15-1 career record through three seasons. As a junior, he went 9-1 with a 1.41 ERA, 68 strikeouts and 18 walks in 50 innings. 
Laird also owns a 4.2 cumula­tive GPA while taking honors courses at Bellaire. 
o·Brien, who has touchfld 90 mph with his fastball, is set to become thti third four-year starter in the history of Walsh Jt>suit High School and already owns school career records for victories, winning percentage and strikflouts. As the st.airs No. 1 starter, the 6-4, ZOO-pounder led his team to a record of 45-12 over the past two seasons. including a school-record for wins in a season as a sophomore 
(9-1 ). 
O'Brien also was named MVP of the 1997-98 Walsh Jesuit bas­ketball team after averaging 
18.5 points and 10.1 rebounds per game. 
Ogilvie. who is noted for his arm action and control, posted an 0.89 ERA and 28 strikeouts in 
15.2 innings as a junior at Stevenson High School, when his season was cut short due to injury. The 6-3. 200-pounder had an impressive sophomore campaign in which he went 12-2 with a 1.67 EH/\, 97 K·s, 37 walks and 68 hits alloworl in 
83.2 innings before going 9-l in 1997 summer Legion ball. 
A CONTINUING LECTURE AND DISCUSSION SERIES: 

''WlSDOM~~ 
:,presented by:
•·'it 
?Ms. Chandra Johnson 
"\},., Asst. Director of Campus Ministry and Assistant to the President 
7pm -Log Chapel 
SPONSORED BY CAMPUS MINISTRY AND TIIE 
CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS 

November 19th 10-7 • 20th 9-8 • 21st 8-1:30 
Save up to 75% 
on many name brands! 
3DAYS 
ONLY 
AT THE LOGAN CENTER 
Blowout
Name Brand Clothing ....................... Sugges.t1ed ............... 
Reta, Price 
Tommy Rugby Shirts ........................... $92.00 ................. .. $29.95 Nautica Crew Sweatshirts ................... $49.95 ................. .. $29.95 Polo Sport T-Shirts .............................. $29.95 .................. . $9.95 Reebok Ladies T-Shirts ....................... $14.95 ................... . $4.95 
Plus many other items to choose from 
SAVE 
UPTO 
60% 
On selected Notre Dame apparel 
1235 N. Eddy St.• South Bend• 289-4831 • Portions of the proceeds to benefit the Logan Center . 
• 
Wednesday, November 18, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
..
F00tbal1.----;::~~~)--=~-:t.~-~~i~~-=a~(:-;-:~e=--0-=su-=ar-;id:--,,-a--:::~::!:--e:~-:::-:;~;---=~~:t:-::~.,:-::s-b:---,e-:-!~:-i;--::~~~:--o~tr=-be=--1---,·1-=-re=-o---=r:-:,-=-~-hyl:--'.:-i~~-;_::.:::;'\0;:;:;:;':;:;·~~=+;:~=-·•••=·~=,~=,~:;:,,,=.0=u::!=ili:::lF=·.=.::::.,,=\~::::::::::::============::-­
continued from page 24 
"They've played a lot of good loams and those gamr.s have hcm1 right down to the wirn." 
Saturday's game will be the l11ird time the Tigers and lrish tanglo in th1~ span of a year. l>avir. knows what typo of game he"II get from Gary l)iNardo's squarl who will br. trr.ating this gamn like their bowl ganw. 
"Wti rrnr.d to play our best football of the ytlar lo win this game, I don't think there's any q1wstion nbout it." Davin said. "l 11xpuct tlwm lo play their lrnst football gamn or Uw year. I doubt wn will play a more tal<mtnd team." 
Notre Dame and I.SU have split eight prnvious meetings including last year's contests. 
Thn Irish defr.atecl LSU in Tigor Stadium 24-(, last Nov1imbcr. but I.SU took the lndepondencr. Bowl 27-9. Each t1rnm took a turn domi­nating th" other but the total points in tho two gamos is d1~1ul even with both teams scoring a total of '.B points, 
But thn Irish havn a long urnmory as tlrn nrnmorir.s of that loss in Shrcv,1port still s11rv11s as motivation. 
"Losing that bowl game 
polls while LSU has free fallen out of lhc rankings -where they once stood sixth. 
Davie has his team concen­traling on building something as he gave them a bit of ales-son one might hear at ritzpatrick. 
"I told the team that it's kind of like building a skyscraper," Davie said, "You put as many floors on that thing as the foundation allows you and I think our foundation is strong." 
That foundation means more than just x's and o's and work­outs in the weight room, or oven than execution. 
"I think it's more the intangi­blos. Davie said. "We're get­ting to the point where this football team plays hard nn every down regardless of' the situation. We may not always play well but wfl play hard." 
"Another thing that leads to that strong foundation is the seniors," Davie said. "Last year's class there were 11 left of 20 or so that came in and there was only one in the NFL Drart. This 'is a strong senior 
gta;:J ;;cde~·ti~ ~~;eaw~~-:al~ ca;~:\nly major setback in but to fall flat like that was a the I\' avy win was the loss of
~1t~i~I~·:~.:::.r:0c:~~:~~t: ~}r~~~~r•nJeny Wisne, 
bowl game. Tim Ridder will move to Wisne's spot and Mike Gandy will re p I a c e 
Ridder at Davie guard. 
'Tm concerned about their front, with their nose guard and their three technique," Davie said about the LSU defense. "It's even more of a concern because Jerry Wisne is out and he's a heck of a player for us. The other sup­porting class needs to pick up their game." 
Tim challenge of winning the l'ou rth qu arior of the season begins exactly where Davie wants it to start, Notre Dame Stadium. 
"It's a challenge we're excit­ed about," Davie said. "We're looking forward to play in Notre Dame Stadium again. I'm anxious to see what kind of atmosphere there is in that stadium and I'm anxious to see if we can keep that thing going at home. But it won't be easy." 

The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit. It's so delicious, it just might turn you into a morning person. 
Our fresh-baked biscuit topp~d with sizzling sausage, egg and melted cheese tastes so good, it's enough to make anybody happy in the morning, If only getting through the rest of the day was as easy. 
(Al part1c,pal1ng restaurants. During breakfast hours only.) 
n,e ~uoefte . Larorrune ~,uct,ert c.n1:1r 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better. 
Com......,.JTI, issioner,. union 
........... 
1&1ifJ!i" 
t~,~~ ume talks Friday 
Assoo.i.tedPt'el» ··· 
.:lif ti:1Jli< . . · NEWYQRK 
AftefJl days of silence, the oppos~gsides in the NBA lock-o:ut fui~y spoke Tuesday and agreed to resume formal bar• gainil}lftll.lkslater this week. 
'ComJ.iilssitmer David Stern, deputy commissioner Russ Granik. and Steve Mills, tho NBAt5•viclfpresident1'or bas­ketball development. met for ~\VOh(,)\!rs or1Day 140 of the lbck6µt'·1with Union director Billy Hunter. union president ta.trjclt Ewi.ng and Herb Williijni!foftq.eKnicks.· 
Still, the two sides agreed to -gi.e l~rgw· se~s.~pn Friday. It will .Ee the first session involving the full owners' and players' p,egq_ti~iing committees since Oct: '2'8"", the i1ight Michael Jordan sat in on an 8 1/2-hour ~~s~johi,.: .··...·­
'Tfi'otlr$tsixweeks ofthe sea­son already have been ~ra.pp~d. IU).dwitl1 eB:chpass­ing daythe likelihood increases of the season not beginning 
,,~ti!:,fT~ai;w;)1k • , 
+I \"\/hen seriQus negotiations 
begin, I would expect (Jordan) will b(i back in there," agent I>avid Falk said. "The next step has to be for the league to come in with a better offer." 
The owners and players are stuck on the main economic argument of what constitutes a fair split of nwenue. 
Players, who received 57 per­cent last season, arn offering no concessions to slow salary growth unless th,~ percMttige riscsto60perccnt. 
Owners, who had the right to reopen the last labor agree­ment if the percentage rose above 51.8 percent, want the players to accept 50 percent. 
The owners have offered increased minimum salaries for veterans and have agreed in principle to the union's request for an annual salary cap exception equal to the average salary (which was $2.6 million last season). hut have demanded other mechanisms that would limit salaries the highost-paid players could receive, 
Need Cash?? 
.·n1$25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 IO and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 


Wednesday, November 18, 1998
page 22 The Obst:rver • SPORI'S 
¦ VOLLEYBALL ¦ NFL 
Treadwell, Duda end Hall of Fame coach Ewbank dies 

CLASS OF '99 
SHAKE UP YOUR USUAL THURSDAY NIGHT SCENE AND HEAD TO... 
The Observer/ Jeff Hsu 
Sen·1or middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell plays the final regular season match of her career tonight at the JACC. 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
Ashley Clark, who hit .412 for the Rockets in that same match. 
"If we can get to the point where we're playing aggressive­ly and not having errors, that will be the key," said Notre • Dame head coach 0ebbie Brown. 
Brown plans to focus Irish efforts on reducing unforced errors and concentrating on their own side of the net. 
Treadwell and Duda will seek to make it a memorable match, 
SPRING BREAK'99 
rOURS & HOURS OF FREE DRINKS! , Earn 2 FREE Trips & $$$$$! ,Cancun, Jamaica, Florida, Barbados, Bal1ama~ Lo11es1 Prices/ Besa l\lelil Plan l•800-4l6-77JO/www.sunsplashlours.c:om 
Associated Press 
OXFORD, Ohio
homecourt careers 
Weeb Ewbank, tho winning coach in two of pro football's most famous championship games, died Tuesday at his home. He was 91. 
The cause of death was not released immediately. The Ball of Fame coach, who attended last Sunday's Jets-Colts gamo in Indianapolis, was hospitalized briet1v last vear for treatment of a heart pr.oblem. 
Ewbank was the only coach to win titles in the APL and NFL. He coached Joe Namath and the New York Jets over the heavily favored Baltimore Colts 16-7 in the third Super Bowl in 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Spom Writer 
It's Senior Night for the Irish volleyball team. For the final home match of middle blocker 
recover from a weekend loss against West Virginia by defeating the Toledo Rockets. 
Notre Dame (13-12) is the clear favorite to win, as the Rockets have racked up 25 loss­es this season but only three vic­tories. The Irish have also won both pre\'ious matches against the Rockets in 1991 and 1996. 
But the Irish will be careful not to overlook the possibility of a Toledo upset, as it was an upset by West Virginia on Sunday which kept the Irish from earning a share of the Big East regular-season title. 
"l think we definitely want to regroup from this weekend,~ said sophomore outside hitter Christi Girton. "[We're] pretty much concentrating on not play­ing down to another team's level." 
Toledo is coached by Kent Miller, who led the Rockets to a 17-15 record in his first season at the helm last year. 
Toledo returns only two starters from last season. Its top players are middle blocker Cori Begle, who led the team with nine kills in a match versus Kent (Ohio) last weekend, and setter as they play for the last time in front of a home crowd at the Joyce Center. Treadwell, a cap­tain, has been key for the Irish all season, leading starters with 
a .308 hitting percentage and ranking among the top blockers

Lindsay Treadwell and in the Big East defensive spe­'WE'RE PRETTY MUCH conference. 
Duda, who
rialist Audra CONCENTRATING ON 
joined the Irish
Juda's college NOT PLAYING DOWN TO 
careers, the as a walk-on in team will try to ANOTHER TEAM'S LEVEL.' 1996, has seen 
limited playing time. 
CHRISTI GIRTON "We are just OUTSIDE HtITER going to play with a lot of 
"ONE LAST CALL FOR FOOTBALL" 
intensity and make our last home match this season really great," said fresh­
PARTY 
man outside hitter Marcie Bomhack. 
Sophomore setter Michelle Graham continues to substitute for Denise Boylan, who is out 
Thursday, NOV. 19, 1Opm
with torn ligaments in her right elbow. Other players Notre Dame will look to in tonight's attack on the Rockets are Girton, junior opposite Emily Schiebout, and junior middle 
81 
we vea 
em'1 
blocker Mary Leffers. 
Following tonight's match, the Irish head to Pittsburgh for the Big East tournament. 
1969, giving the APL its first title over the more established 
NPL. 
In 1958, Ewbank coached Johnny Unitas and the Colts to a 23-17 overtime win over the New York Giants for the NFL championship. Often called "The Greatest Game Ever Played," it was credited with making pro football one of the most popular American sports. 
Ewbank also led the Colts over the Giants 31-16 for the title in 1959. 
He posted a 130-129-7 record during 20 seasons as a pro coach. He coached the Colts from 1954 to 1962 and the Jets from 1963 to 1973. 
"I greatly admired Wccb," 
Jets chairman of the board Leon Hess said Tuesday night. "He was a man who knew everything there was to know about football organization and player motivation." 
Ewbank. a native of Richmond, Ind., lived with his wife, Lucy, in Oxford. He is sur­vived by his wife, three daugh­ters, eight grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren. 
Funeral arrangements were pending Tuesday night. 
Ewbank's death came four days after the death of another New York coaching great, Red Holzman. Holzman guided the Knicks to their only two NBA championships in the early l 970s. 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 


Ff"·~
~ '~ ...,
\'.~-· 
---~~\c-___ 
fOXTROT 
n,J15 CoFFEE. IT'S r:;:;;::-1 CoUlD SWEAR IT S
MMM. I LIKE 
I ---~ ,, ,"IETH1Nu 1N IT.
()1ffER£NT 50~:[Ho•,1 010 'l'ou Bu, or,~ , f j: 1 '-!UT .. C1NNAM0N ... 
THIS. 
I 
Tr!oS( oNES WITH /I M1"'1'bi: A H1NT oF VANillA 
I
,-~­
ftAVoR ADOEO:' J No. ~ ,

DILBERT 
Wednesdat, _Novem~e~99_8__ The Observer • TODAY page 23 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
1!/15 RECREATJ1'JN 
WED\\:ESOAY, NOVEMBER 1.8, 1998
15 BROUGHT 
CELEBRITIES BOUN ON THIS
10 you BY 
DAY: Elizabdh P~rkin~, Kevin Nu~lon, lh,•r1<l,1 \'acrarn, Milig.uct AtWl'OOJ 
Happf Birthd.a;·: This r,m b~ ,ud1
rHE Tk/PP TAPES 
,1 ti,rrifk year if you will ju,,t giv~ in to the inevitable anr.l work with \I.hat you'Vt' gut. The rmm1 you light, th~
AN{) 
iurthi.'.f back y\!u'II fall. C,1,;t fl)Ut fat<• to the wind and let you.rs.<!( find the h~ppincss ,md satisla.,tian yuu Jesin•.
1HE :1'lllRR t?EftRT 
Opportunitit>s are appam1t, but tl111y wun'I ju&t dror i.r1 yuur lap. ~t mov­ing and you'! tll/\'L"f look back. Your numlxll'J: 4, 15, 24, 19, ,t2, 45 
ARIES (March 21-Aptil 19): Take 
BILL AMEND 
adi·antage of any chan"i 11., tnl\i.,I or learn valuabt~, infotmativn. Your ide.ts will b~ original ~nd we.11­rcrein-d if pwse.nted 11'.arly in tht: dil.\', 
OH, WAIT NEVE? M1ND 
I 
NEVER 
• M•l'ID 
) WHAT' 
I 
ANYoNE 
fake care oflcg,11 matters. 000 SEEN nlE 
TAURUS (Af.ril .20-May 20); 
GIANT 
Cndrn;tanJin)l will b,; a must whim C1?1cnT I 
dealing with tlrnse yon lo\'e. Your 
partner may be unstable. Do not SC<[tK[ 
CAvGHT roR 
mak<' major decisions regM\ling ;·our protessitinat di n..>ction. 000
CL,. 
GEMINI (M.ty 21-June 20): Busi­n11ss oprortuniti('s will J~v"111p througli i:hc company Yl'\l kwp. Try to in\'Ol\'e roul'tlelf ~,-ilh pr~~'Uoorgani:zntions that will enat> to 111<:et thOM' who Jre in .i position to help fe>u. 000 
CANCER (June 2l•July 2Zl: Be rnrdul .how :,ou ltillkfk• otht!l'>. Sp,mJ time dc.iling >vith the ncl'<ls ol chil• drc,1. Get involved in fitness pro­gram, that will h11lp >•,1u al111vl4h, 
--. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~l!Vl'.~. OOOOC) 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): drnng•:s an; likely in your living arrnngt••
E 
'(OlJ I'M A. 
ments. A new lires'. It• .in,l nt.•w ..,·ay,
. 
of doin~ thin!;s ,>rt• ;ppar,mt. Dvn't l,:t
COULO ei\RGER, NOT
! 
partners take ~d, .. nt~ge oi your g11n­
TI-\I$ CL05Et> 
C.Mr~ :(O? CUR5£ IT OFF 
~ 01: ~! fl 
EUGENIA LAST 
l."Wsitv. Ll ,trll h 1 ~.1v no. 00 
ViRGO (Aug.' 23-Sepl. 22): You 
.:an mah r;,.tr~ .-a$h through .~llMIJ 
l,usirw~, or trec•IAJl(t! ,fone out ,,f 
yom honw. Y,1u will hdvt' u1w,p,,deJ 
vi,ib fmm tri<'lhi,;. Ile prcpM,-d to get 
intu ~rious di:k."l.lssions. 0000 
llBRA IStpL 23-Uct. 22/: ltwest• 
111'.tnt, mav backfire tf you have not 
l,!'\!n pmp~,rly 1111<,rnt('d ub11ul diem. 
Cct sound lina11e1al ndvice before VC1U 
proceed. lh• ,·nreh.1I when dealing 
with li1SI la!kc,~. 000 
SCORPIO COcL 23-Nov. :lU: 'You 
will meet potential new "'ates 
through ~our fri1~1ds. Your emoUons 
will be mounting. Someone m your 
home e1wironme11t rnav be unpr<>­
di<:tab!t•. 000 
SAGITIARIUS !Nov. 22•Dec. 21): 
Listen and ol,st>rw, but don't nuke 
any dr~sr1c d'.""isiom lod.tr \\\-Jrk ,Jui­
etl)• anJ behmd-th,~,ccnes, .ivoiJms 
overindulgent temptations. Unreli· 
abl.i ro-wor~er~ Ill.I) lry lo make you 
lool. bad. 000 · 
CAPRICORN IOe(, 22•Jan. 19): 
R~•marK\: i5 widen! if you take part in 
family gatherings or social events. 
l.£avt.' dsk\· inv~'tllmcnl:! to otlicrs. [1·~ 
best t-, be' cu11se1-Y,ltive and ~afo for 
th•· lime being. 0000 
AQL'ARIUS Oin. 21J.Feb. 18): You will ~xperiencc lot~ of changes, but that's no reawn to get upset. Go with the ffow aml you'll find i•ouuelf enjuying ,ill th,ll hie has to off~r. Don't Id wlle.i~u••• d,unp•m your dar 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-M,;rch 20): Trawl will inihate new inen.Jship,. You will find thui learning wdl come easHy. l'el!t$ will grv,• you sound adl'icc. lrwoh-.:n' .,t wiU1 i11sbtutio11al e11vi­ronmen1,1 ,_.m b~ su,·ecMful. 00000

-f 
49 Gerrnany·s Dortmund Canal 
so Qu11e a while s1 Actress Nort/1 53 Fortune 55 Less rolaKed 
Women's Boxing~There will be a women's boxing spring season informational meeting for veteran's and former novice on Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. in the boxing room downstairs in the JACC. Any questions ca.II Aimee Catrow at 246-9582. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
, Righteousness loa faull 9 Markel grp 15 Schubert song 1&C1ty near Syracuse n Judged, ma wav 
1e Denver athlete 19 Storage areas 20 Ref. book 22 70's extremist 
grp 23 •. --Three lives" 24 Forrnor TV 
co-host 25 Funeral stand 26 Cyberspace 
<'lbbr 
21 Fakes 30 Sh,p's heading 31 Hill (James 
Monroe's home) 32 Ashby of the so·s Astros 33 Fat. in France JS North Dakota native or city 38 Mother of Levi an<I Judah 39 Bank acct entiy 40 Not classical Al2 Comfort. m a way 
4SCmch 
46Not 47 Hungarian patr101 Nagy ca Bangkok money 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
57 Japanese floor covering 
58 Olympics sport discontinued atter 1908 
59 Hit song ol t968 
60Swore 
DOWN 
1 Sci-Ii enemy 2 Like some 
speeches 
3 Airport 
employee, al 
tirnes 
4f!l( 
sCapor 6 More than upsets 
7German 
pronoun sMore angry &Cool 
10 " ... some k•nd ol--?" 11 Line part Abbr. 12 Eats with enthusiasm 
13 Aslaire ancl others 


'" Hs capital is Doha 21 Iraqi, most likely HNet 25Join 27 Trig function 2alssmart 
nSomuch. 
musically 340ilof• 36 Beel<eeper 31 Fast tooo 
request 41 Faded (out) 42 "H1ppolyte et 48 Castil1an kisses 
Aricie" SO"Look-­
composer 
51 Faction 43Sham s.2 Wonderland 44 Phoebe's sister character 
on "Friends'' 54 Chou En•-­46 Salamanders 56 A Turner 
Answers to any three clues m this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute), 
Annual subscriptions are available for the bas1 of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: i-8fl8::.?·AOA.O""S::ccS=-----------' 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
L _________________________. 


Women's 

Volleyball 
Wed., Nov. 18th 
vs. Toledo 
7:00 p.m. 
Watch Exciting Volleyball Action 


I ¦ Top-rated college 
¦ Christi Girton and 
I ._. 
basketball teams 
the Irish volleyball 
I 
I I 
secured big victories 
team host Toledo 
I last night. 
tonight to end the reg­
I 
ular season.
PORTS 
p.16 
p.22 
fHF
I page 24 -----------------------0 BSERVER Wednesday, Novernber 18, J998
I 
I 
¦ CROSS COUNTRY 
Cross country teams miss NCAAs, Deeter and Shay qualify 

By ALAN WASALIEWSK.I 
Spores Wri[er 
It has been an emotional week for the Notre Dame cross coun­try program. 
After Saturdav's run al dis­tricts. the Irish hc>ped to earn at­large bids to the NCAA champi­onships in Lawrenc-e. Kan. 
Allhough ouly t.hc tup two teams earn automatic bids, the women felt their f'ourth place tlnish at the District IV champi­onships might sway the commit· lee handing out the bids to put Notre Dame into the champi­onships. 
The men hoped their disap­pointing eighth-place finish at districts would be overlooked and their season performance taken into account. 
On Monday, both teams found out thev had been denied at­large bids. 
The top runners from each team, sophomore Ryan Shay and junior JoAnna Deeter, did receive invitations to run in the national meet. But this marks the first time since 1991 that the men will not be running in the NCAAs. 
Both teams just missed quali­fying for the championships. The committee took only the top two women teams from District IV 
¦ FOOTBALL 
Irish want revenge on ISU 
By JOEY CAVATO coaching staff divided the sea-in January was really for. the 
As~istant Sports Editor son into four quarters and fourth quarter," Davie said. . LSU and usq~l)llij')rise tho ..';We .... geared everything
For the Notre Dame football 
team's season, the 1812 games. ofJhe (oµi:tti, quarter. qf rdsthis;" • . .. . ••••·•·-\' . . the season. · ; > ·.· •· · ··• ,.,1 tre Dame worked tllf()µgh/
Overture has already played 
"It's a challenge as we enterand the time for their best is 
this fourth quarter becausenow. everything we did starting
Before spring practice, head 
with the off-season program
coach Bob Davie and his 
.
I ., 
. . ''iYC' \ 1'MOh~a~l¾dJel!~J"i ·:ik~ft'btng-, .. ,Utt 

I
I .-Autry Denson, who became fhe Notre Dame ca.. Urb~h(ng leader Jci'sf-----,----~;:_:.cc--'--'-"'""'­
weekend, will lead the Irish running attack against LSU.Saturday. · · · ' fee' FOOTBALtf'pigl20
1 
and the top six teams from tlrn men's side. Just two places. which ultimately comes down to mere seconds in tlrn meet, kept tho women from continuing their season. 
"If you analyze what team fin­ishes where, you can bn talking about a matter of seconds," women's coach Tim Connelly explained. "The committee for cross country is not like. say, the basketball committee. They have a certain criteria they follow and do not us(i any personal judg­ment. It ultimately comes down to who you beat during the sea­son." 
The invitations earned I.Jy Deeter and Shav allow them to continue their stellar seasons. 
Both runners have led the Irish team in every meet they have competed in this year. Both should be favorites to earn all­American honors at the NCAA championships next weekend. Depending on the number of for­eign competitors in the champi­onship meet, an approximate top thirty finish should earn all­American status. 
Deeter has won four of the six races she entered and placed second and third in the other two. The NCAA championships are nothing new to her; in her freshman season, Deeter fin-· ished third in the final race. 
the "first quarter''; beating 
Michigan but losing to 
Michigan State. After improv­
ing and winning through the second and third quartets the 8-1 Irish tooki11g to . fibi$hwhat they s.t/;l,J;t~d.: '.'Because. of harq.\\\'()rk,•.. some unselfishness/and to be honest, some good fortune we've put our­selves in the situation to have a great opportuni­ty," Davie said. "Our goal right now is to see ifwe have some more jvice left in us, to see iLwe have another gear, .to see if we have another leveL" The Irish may need to push it to another level to topple the alphabet soup teams. LSU and USC aren't ranked in .the top ,<~5 but are dangerous ··.·opponen,ts. Th.l ;a:r~ loaded with talerH, and both beat the frl&li last season. The tenth~ranked Irish are just three point favorites over the 4-5 Tigers this weekent{ ' ·"T~ey're 4.5 c '~~lJl~4t,1Qes1 
'·JoAnna had a great season," 
Connellv said. "Sim knows exact­
ly what she has to do when she 
gets on the course. She has the 
ability to finish in the top ten.'' 
Shay will he determined to 
improv11 on his 51 st-place finish 
at the NC/\As a year ago. lie 
won the National Catholic 
Invitational this vear and also 
had two second pl;ce finishes. 
"He has run well all year," 
mrrn's !mad coach Joe Piane 
said. "I would expect that hn 
would have a legitimate shot at 
making all-American." 
Shay will also benefit from 
having run the championship 
course at the Bob Timmons 
Invitational on Oct. l 0, where he 
finished 17th. 
While the cross country season is over for the tflams, the future remains bright. Deeter, along with top runners Alison Klemmer and Patti Rice, are all -juniors and will return to make Notre Dame a team to reckon 
with in 1999. 
The men, who lose senior 
leadership in Antonio Arce, 
Ryan Maxwell and Tim 
Engelhardt, are also loaded with 
young talent for next year with 
Shay and freshmen Luke Watson 
and Marc Striowski returning. 
The Irish will be poised to 
make the 1999 cross country 
season a memorable one. 
. The Observer/John Daily Junior JoAnna Deeter qualified for the NCAA championships with a second-place finish at the district meet. 
¦ WOMEl\!'S BASKETBALL 
Ivey gets Big East honors 
Notre Dame junior guard Niele Ivey, who was instru­mental in leading the 17th­ranked Irish to a 99-82 victory over sixth-ranked UCLA in the season opener for both teams, was named the co-BIG 

Ivey
EAST Player of the Week. 
Ivey, who earns the honor for the second time in her career, led Notre Dame with a career-high 25 points while also posting lrnr first career double-double as she dished out 11 assists 
(also a per­
met regularly 
sonal best). 
from 1989-95
tr,Women's
She hit 
while Notre 
seven-of-11 
Dame was a
Basketball
shots from the field and was nine-of­10 from the charity stripe. In addition, she had four rebounds and a game-high live steals. 
women's bas• 
Ivey scored ketball team 18 second-half points as the opened up the 1998-99 cam-Irish posted their first-ever win paign with a convincing 99-82 over a top 10 team at the Joyce win over the then-sixth-ranked Center. 
The win marknd the 400th in thfl history of the womm1 's bas­ketball program, now in its 22nd year. 
Ivey shared the league's player-of-the-week honors with junior center Paige Satwr of Connecticut. 
Notre Dame returns to action tonight when the Irish travel to Butler for a 7:00 p.m. contnst with the Bulldogs. 
This will be the 24th meeting between the two schools with the Irish holding a 17-6 advan· tage in the series. 
Notre Damn has won throe straight over the Bulldogs, including last year's 71-65 vic­tory at the Joyce Centnr. Tho 
two teams 
member of the Midwestern Collegiato Conference. The Irish arn 6-3 at llinkle Fieldhouse. 
The 11th­ranked Notre 
D a m e 

vs. LSU Basketball
SPORTS 
M
Saturday, l :30 p.m. at Vanderbilt Saturday, 7:30 p.rn. &· vs. Western Michigan
ATA 
Soccer NCAA Tournament ~~ Friday, 7 p.rn.
w 
Second Round vs. Nebraska vs. Toledo
GLANCE 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. Tonight, 7 p.m. 






