---~------------------~ --------------------------------------·------~---------------, 

• CAMPUS liFE COUNCIL 
CLC denies new club coordination member 
By FINN PRESSLY and whether or not non-voting mem­a place on the CLC and that the resolu­News Writer bers are provided for in the council tion was designed to make the transi­bylaws. tion to membership easier. Adding a Debate over a resolution from the A "friendly amendment" was pro­new member to the council would result Bylaw Review Committee began the posed by Father George Rozum, who in the dismissal of a student position, new business at last night's meeting of claimed the resolution, as written, was she said, and the non-voting member­the Campus Life Council. I unclear as to the actual duration of the ship status would provide a temporary 
The new resolution, ~resented by solution to the problem until a perma­committee chairperson ~nd Pangborn ment solution could be reached. senator Susan Roberts, called for the "I don't see the long term value of a
'IDON'T SEE THE LONG TERM 
inclusion of a representative from the member who is not voting," said Father 
VALUE OF A MEMBER WHO IS
Club Coordination Council as a non-vot­David Scheidler, rector of St. Edward's ing member of the CLC. NOT VOTING,' Hall. Scheidler also expressed his con­
Parliamentarian Tim jKeller chal­cern that the addition of a new member lenged the resolution by asking whether FATHER DAVID SCHEIDLER would upset the balance between stu­the addition of a new nonl-voting mem­REcTOR, ST. EDWARD's HALL dent representatives and representa­ber would affect the current quorum, tives of the administration. and if he or she would enjoy the same Tim FitzSimons, the Hall Presidents' privileges of any member of the CLC, new member's position. He suggested Council representative, and April Davis, except the right to vote. i amending the resolution so that it set a representative of the Office of 
Assistant vice president for Residence definite term for the CCC representa­Multicultural Affairs, added their sup­Life Bill Kirk was next toj question the tive. port for the measure. resolution. He first inquired as to the Roberts then declined the amend­"The CCC does represent a big con-specific nature of a non-v~ting member, ment, later citing that the CCC deserves 
see CLC I page 7 
TV correspondent spe~ks to SMC 
By SHANA'E TATE Republican and: Democratic 1996 National News Writer Conventions, the 1996 presidential election night coverage and the president's inaugura­
ABC News Correspondent Bettina Gregory tion, news conferences and speeches. spoke about "Personal Perspectives on Held in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Gregory's Success" at the second annual Shaheen lecture gave idea$ about success and failure as Presidential Lecture at Saint Mary's College the main topic of fliscussion for the evening. last night. "Everyone I know who is a success started 
"Journalism is a wonderful field in which out as a failure," said Gregory. "I am l'ascinat­persistence can be rewarded," Gregory said. "If ed by successful people." you do persist, you will succeed." She said her fascination with successful peo­
Joining ABC News in 1974, Gregory has cov­ple is not how they succeed, but how they deal ered the White House. the Pentagon, Capital with small failure~ along the way. Hill and federal regulatory agencies, as well as Gregory shar~d many past experiences presidential elections, political conventions and describing her st1ruggles and success in jour­campaigns. nalism. She believes that "you have to start 
Gregory's reports appear regularly on "World somewhere." News Tonight" and she is a frequent commen­Gregory graduated from Cornell University tator on "Nightline." with a double-major in psychology and English. 
"If you wanted a job that is planned ... do not She built her experience at "low-paying," small even think about ljournalism)," stated Gregory. television netwdrks to become what she is 
Since 1994, Gregory has been the chief today, a success. ' anchor for ABC Radio's live coverage of special "The best way is to start small and work your events, which have included the funeral of way up. You will get a chance quicker," 
The ObseJVer/Patnck Quigley 
Princess Diana, the entire O.J. Simpson trial, Gregory said. 
A 
student takes advantage of the recent warm weather to partake
the 1996 Summer Olympics, both the 
in AnTostal activities. See also Scene pages 10, 11. 
see JOURNALIST/ page 6 





University names 11• honorary degree recipients 
Special to The Observer 
consultant to the Financial 
Accounting Standards Board, a
qegree Recipients

Ten distinguished national fig­
member of the Securities and
l

ures in the Church, education, 
Exchange Commission Advisory
' 

public service, literature, law and business will join principal speaker Joseph Kernan as hon­orary degree recipients at the University of Notre Dame's 153rd Commencement exercis­es on Sunday, May 17. 
Degrees will be conferred on some 1,800 undergraduate and 550 advanced degree candi­dates in ceremonies beginning at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center on campus. 
Kernan, a Notre Dame alum­nus. former mayor of South Bend and now lieutenant gover­nor of Indiana, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree, and the University will present the 1998 Laetare Medal to Dr. 


Kenneth Chenault

Edmund Pellegrino, the John Carrol Professor of Medicine and Medical Ethics at Georgetown University. 




Committee. a trustee of the Financial Accounting Foundation, and as a member of numerous editorial review boards. 
• Elaine Chao, distinguished fellow, The Heritage Foundation doctor of laws. Prior to joining
William Beaver 

The Heritage Foundation, Chao served as president and chief executive officer of United Way of America from 1992-96. She led the organization to recovery after allegations of widespread mismanagement and abuse by the previous administration. Chao previously served for two years as director of the Peace Corps at a time when the orga­nization made its first outreach to the newly independent states of the former Soviet Union. She
For additional recipients, seep. 4 

also has served as deputy secre­tary of the U.S. Department of 
Elaine Chao 



Accounting, Stanford Univer­Graduate School of Business. financial accounting, he is the
In addition to Kernan, the Transportation, chair of the
sity, doctor of laws. A 1962 J1e taught for four years at author of the widely regarded
honorary degree recipients are Federal Maritime Commission
graduate of Notre Dame, Clhicago before joining the book "Financial Reporting: An
as follows: and vice president of
Beaver holds master's and doc­Stanford faculty in 1969. An Accounting Revolution."
• William Beaver, Joan 
toral degrees from the award-winning teacher as well Beaver's contributions to his
Horngren Professor of 
see DEGREE I page 4
University of Chicago's as a leading researcher in profession include serving as a 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Inclusion in the classrootn 
Stop and wait. 

P.CoHeen Nugent Before you read this 
Saint Mary's News Ediror
column. I would like you to take time to think about who you are. Since the majority of students in the SMC and ND communities are without disabilitiBs, imagine what it would be like to have morp contact with disabled peopl!~. 
These individuals are not just the ones in wheelchairs. Rather, disabilities can also be unnoticeable to the human eye. Dyslexia, ADD and many other disabilities affect thousands of people. 
I lowever. it is in eommunities such as ours that we allow ourselves to escape from the "real world." Many academic environments plac1~ a strong emphasis on one's goals and achievement~. 
lndusion is one of the most common topics for debate among the government and school systems in our country. When dealing with this subject, we must remember that all children, whether intellectually gifted or academieally­challcnged. are given the right to be educated in the "regular-paced" classroom. 
Sound like a good idea? Please rethink your answer. 
Oeeiding whether inclusion is the "morally right" choice has become a very complicated subject to address. 
For many reasons, people believe that acad­emically-challenged students belong in a class­room of their own. This way, they can encour­age each other in the learning process, receive the individual attention that is necessary for them to succeed in our everyday society, and build their self-esteem. 
On the other hand, many people believe that the disabled boys and girls deserve the right to be educated in the regular-paced classroom. Through this, everyone will receive their edu­cation on an equality-based system. 
Which decision would be the best or the wis­est choice to make'? 
While some individuals choose to view inclu­sion as a wonderful opportunity for children of all ages to experience, others tend to believe that it is unnecessary because special-needs childrnn belong in an educational environment of their own. 
Imagine yourself as an elementary school teacher. You are in front of a classroom of about 30 students. On the whole, they arc well­behaved, but at times, the students can show their wild sides and become out-of-control. Now think to yourself what it would be like to be that teacher if four or five of the students had special needs. 
If individual aides were not affordable by the school system, how would you deal with that situation? Would you still consider inclusion to be the appropriate choice for your child's well­being, whether he or she be disabled or "nor­mal?'' 
The reason I mention this is because many of us hope to someday have children of our own. Eventually, they will be placed in a class­room and you may have to deal with inclusion. Due to my lack of experience, I do not feel qualified to claim one position to the other. 
However, from what I have heard about inclusion, I strongly feel that major adjust­ments need to be made if it is going to become a part of our society's schooling policy. 
Through it all, we must remember that no human being is better than the next, and that all individuals should feel important in their own personal ways. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Bill Uniowski  Janice Wiers  
Colleen McCarthy  Graphics  
Anne Hosinski  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Amhony Bianco  Kathleen Lopez  
Shannon Ryan  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Kevin Dalum  
Eddie Llull  Par Quigley  

The Ob,.rv<r {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during exam and vac;uion periods. The Ob~crvcr is a member of the Allisoc.:iatcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Heller, of the Brevard County Sheriffs Department. 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
·r·---~·-_,....:.:.......................................i,H 
I 
i 
I 
Friday ~ 62 45 
'"''~ 
Saturday /£'.~ 63 41~ 
~ .... f"'\r--~ .....~..,./'"'\.,·~;.) 
4,~,~8'@8 (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1s Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Tuesday, April21, 1998,
The Observer • INSIDE 

C~"~~:1lutside the Dome 
,f -, Compiled from U-Wire reports 
focus on God, not their differences. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 21. 
Lines separate high ·temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
~ ~ 
COLD ------WARM STATIONARY 

C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L Ea E;Sj !Til 0 . ~ 8 ¢-!:2 u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VJ. Aaoe:tallfd Press  
Atlanta  71  46  Honolulu  80  71  Nashville  66  43  
Boston  58  42  Houston  75  48  Phoenix  98  65  
Chicago  54  38  Hutchinson  60  38  San Diego  76  61  
Dallas  76  50  Las Vega:;  88  60  Saint Louis  61  41  
Detroit  60  38  Milwauke•~  51  38  Seattle  60  45  

Police find body of Spanish graduate student in dormitory 
BEHKELEY, 
under Calif. investiga­A graduate stu­tion, it dent from Spain appears apparently that he hanged himself at hanged the International House late last week, himself," said John Prindeville, an
"The International House assistants making this the third such reported all came to the third floor and they investigator at the Alameda County case in the past five years. asked us to evacuate the rooms," said Coroner's Ollice. "The poliee are lean­According to UC police, Luis Llorente, ing towards suicide." 
graduate student Sung-Hoon Park. "I 23, was discovered in his third-floor Prindeville added that Llorente had
came back at 7 p.m. and the police and room shortly after 11 a.m. Saturday. died from asphyxiation by hanging.
smell were gone." Park said he had noticed a smell on

Authorities said his body was decom­Llorente, described as a quiet and 
the third floor Saturday morning but

posing, indicating that he may have reserved person by his friends, was been dead for several days. thought it was the restrooms. Police from Madrid, Spain, and was studying Residents of the International House East Asian languages. Tracy DeLeon.
placed fans in Llorente's room and sur­said police were notified after coordinator for Resident Support
rounding areas to eliminate the stench. Llorente's family called the dormitory, Although police are still conducting Services, said Llorente had lived at the inquiring about him because they had 1-House since fall. 
an investigation in the cause of not heard anything from him for sever­Llorente's death, authorities said it Ethan Lewis, a graduate student in 
al days. When the front-desk staff appeared that he had killed himself. eeonomics, said every time he saw arrived at Llorente's room. they 'The pathologist did an autopsy on Llorente, they would smile and chat. noticed an odor and decided to open Llorente yesterday morning, and "He never seemed down at all," he 
although the cause of death is still
the door. said. 

• VASSAR COllEGE  • UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA  
Students upset over unsolicited e-mail  Protestors: worker wages too low  
POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y.  CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.  
Members of the Vassar community have expressed con­ About 60 university students, faculty members, employees  
cern over the confidentiality of e-mail addresses following  and local residents gathered on the steps of Minor llall yes­ 
an all-campus advertisement which was distributed by an  terday to show support for the Support the Living Wage  
outside vendor. Many students reacted strongly to the e­ Campaign and to promote awareness of what participants  
mail they received on April 9, which advertised the ser­ said are low worker wages at the university. "There is a  
vices and hours of operation of Pak Mail-a local pack­ problem at the university -!full-time employees making  
ing and shipping business. Pak Mail owner John Girardi  less than $8 an houri are non-persons and don't have a  
said that he received between 60 and 100 immediate  voice," history professor Nelson Lichtenstein said after the  
responses from Vassar students who were unhappy with  rally. "They need to have their own voice, and then shame­ 
receiving the unsolicited e-mail, feeling that their privacy  ful things like making $5 or $6 an hour won't happen."  
had been invaded. "''ve responded personally to all [con­ Lichtenstein, a founder of the Labor Action Group ­a uni­ 
cerned students]," said Girardi. "I didn't want to make  versity workers' rights advocacy organization that organized  
any one feel invaded ­I thought it would be a good way  the rally -said his group aims at increasing the average  
to get the message out." "I sent [Girardi] a message  starting salary for a university housekeeper, which, accord­ 
explaining that mass unsolicited e-mails are frowned  ing to a LAG press release, is $11,392. But university olli­ 
upon on this campus," said VSA Secretary Makeda Tiye  cials said this number is inaccurate. After the rally, universi­ 
Smith. "That is something you wouldn't necessarily know  ty relations director Louise Dudley said the state requires  
unless you were on this campus. There is no way he  staff salaries to start a.t $11,392, but the university pays its  
could have known that people would react so strongly."  starting workers more than this amount.  
• UNIVERSITY Of flORIDA  • NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY  
Football recruit drowns in rip tide  Farrakhan calls for reconciliation  
GAINESVILLE, Fla.  EVANSTON, Ill.  
The body of UF football signee James McGriff was found  Acknowledging he is disliked by many, Nation of Islam  
Saturday morning on Indialantic Beach, one day after strong  leader and minister Louis Farrakhan said Sunday at Alice  
rip tides carried him away. The 6-foot-1, 215-pound run­ Millar chapel that Christians, Jews and Muslims must find  
ning/defensive back from Melbourne Palm Bay apparently  what they have in common to reach reconciliation. "Your  
drowned after going for a swim with his girlfriend on Friday.  natural inclination is to be with your own kind,"  
The two were at the beach with friends because it was  Farrakhan said. "The natural inclination is Jew with Jew,  
"Senior Skip Day." "We share our !,'l'ief and give our condo­ Christian with Christian, Muslim with Muslim. When man  
lences to the McGriff family, especially to James' mother who  has reconciled differences with God, it becomes easy to  
did such an outstanding job raising a fine young man," UF  reconcile our differences with each other." Farrakhan  
coach Steve Spurrier said. When McGriff initially encoun­ was on campus for the 62nd birthday celebration of Hycel  
tered the trouble, his friends and people on the beach did not  Taylor Jr., who is also marking 26 years as senior pastor  
understand what was happening. Several tried to help him,  at Second Baptist Church. For Members Only, an NU stu­ 
but it was too late. "His classmates thought he was just play­ dent group, gave $3,000 to fund the event, which it co­ 
ing around. They didn't realize he was in trouble," said Joan  sponsored with the church. Farrakhan urged believers to  

Tuesday, April21, 1998 [ The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Berkeley prof -will give SMC commencement address 
Special to The Observer 
Sister Sandra Marie Schneiders, professor of New Testament studies and spiritu­ality at the Jesuit School of Theology and Graduate Theological Union at the University of California­Berkeley, will be the com­mencement speaker at Saint Mary's College. 
Graduation ceremonies at Saint Mary's will be at noon on Saturday, May 16, in the Le Mans Courtyard. 
Recognized internationally as one of the most creative and original thinkers in the fields of spirituality and the theology of religious life, Schneiders of the Congregation of the Immaculate Heart of Mary is known for her contemplative yet contemporary interpreta­tion of the biblical message that speaks to academic and lay readers. 
IShe is the author of seven bMks that examine theological topics ranging form biblical exegesis and feminist spiritu­ality to religious vocationa! tqpics. She has also con­tributed over 100 articles and eSsays to numerous publica­
tifs.
graduate of Marygrove C liege, she received her mas­ter's degree in philosophy frbm the University of Detroit, tqen earned her licentiate in sacred theology from the Institut Catholique of Paris and her d()ctor of sacred theology degree from the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome. 
She currently sits on the Catholic Commission on Intellectual and Cultural Affairs and the editorial boards of New Testament Studies and Christian Spirituality Bulletin, as well as the board of the Care Through Touch Institute. She received a two-year Lilly Endowment grant to support her work on contemporary Roman Catholic religious life. 

In 1986, Schneiders was the Madeleva Lecturer in Spirituality at Saint Mary's. Her lecture, titled "Women and the Word: The Gender of God in the New Testament and the Spirituality of Women," was published and proved to be such a success that it is still in print 12 years later. 
Great Summer Job Opportunity in Chicago 
Seeking energetic student for summer internship/service project. Individual would be actively involved in all aspects of a start-up not for profit agency founded by fellow Domers. Job offers ability to sharpen communication, planning and implementation skills while teaching the individual about the basics of operational and financial management. Position is an excellent resume builder and networking opportunity. Housing in the heart of trendy Lincoln Park will be provided. A can't miss opportunity for someone who wants a different summer expe­rience. Interested parties should call Brendan Gilboy: 312-938-5358 ASAP. 

Listening Session with Profe~ssor Nathan Hatch 

The University Committee on Cultural Diversity will sponsor a listening session with Professor Nathan Hatch tonight, 
I 

Tuesday, April21, from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Professor Hatch will offer a 15-minute reflection 
I I 

on issues related to multicultural challenges and concerns at Notre Dame. After Professor Hatch's comments, those in attendance will be invited to share their comme9ts and concerns with him. Refreshments will be served. 
----~---·--.,..... ;: 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 21, 1998 


Garcia became the first Bishops from 1992-95 and cm­ning poet and author, Norris
continued from p. 1 

Mexican-American woman to rently serves on the Pontifkal has published five books of
Degree 

lead a U.S. institution of higher Council for the Promotion of poetry and three books of education when she was Christian Unity and the essays, including New York 
continued from page 1 

appointed president of Texas International Liaison Committee Times bestsellers, "Dakota," "A Southmost. College (TSC) in of Catholics and Jews. Spiritual Geography" and "TheBankAmerica Capital Markets 1986. She assumed the presi­• Sanders Mac Lane, Max Cloister Walk." In her latestGroup. 
dency of both the University of Mason Distinguished Service book, "Amazing Grace: A
• Kenneth Chenault, presi­

Texas (UT) at Brownsville and Professor Emeritus of math­Vocabulary of Faith," Norrisdent and chief operating officer, TSC, a 72-year-old community ematics, University of Chicago, tells of her gradual return to
American Express, doctor of 

college, when the two institu­doctor of science. One of the Christianity after 20 years oflaws. In his current position tions forged a partnership in world's preeminent mathemati­never willingly attendingsince 1997, Chenault has been 1992. cians for more than 60 years, church.
with American Express since • Father Bryan Hehir, profes­Mac Lane is responsible for • Charles Vest, president,

1981, serving as director of 

sor of the practice in religion developing much of the frame­Massachusetts Institute ofstrategic planning, president of and society, Harvard Divinity work in which a great portion Technology, doctor of engineer­the consumer card group, pres­School. A leading voice in of modern mathematics is now ing. A mechanical engineer byident of travel related services Christian ethics, international cast. Educated at Yale training, Vest is in his ninth
and vice-chairman. He has 

affairs and foreign policy, Hehir University, Chicago and year as president of MIT. He
been at the forefront of the has held numerous positions Gottingen University in previously served as provost,

company's efforts to increase with the U.S. Catholic Germany, he taught and con­vice president for academicmarket share in its core busi­Conference and was the prima­ducted research at Yale, affairs, dean of engineering and nesses by expanding product ry author of the Catholic bish­Cornell, Harvard and Columbia associate dean for academic

Juliet Villarreal Garcia 
offerings, globalizing the busi­ops' 1983 pastoral letter on Universities before joining the affairs at the University of ness and helping open its card nuclear warfare, "The faculty at Chicago in 1947. He Michigan. He earned his bache­

network to banking partners 

Challenge of Peace: God's was appointed to a chaired pro­lors degree in mechanical engi­worldwide. 
Promise, Our Response." In fessorship in 1963 and today, at neering from West Virginia• Charles Fischer, president, addition to his teaching and age 88, remains active in schol­University and master's and
chief executive officer and 

research at Harvard, he also is arly work as an emeritus pro­doctoral degrees in the field
chairman of the board, 

counselor to Catholic Helief fessor. from Michigan.
Harbison-Fischer 
Services. • Kathleen Norris, author,Manufacturing Company, doc­• Cardinal William Keeler, doctor of letters. An award-win­tor of laws. A 1949 Notre Dame 
Archdiocese of Baltimore, doc­
graduate, Fischer was elected 
tor of laws. The head of the old­
to the University's Board of 
est See in the United States,
Trustees in October 1991 and 
Cardinal Keeler is a leading
was elevated to life trustee in 
advocate of the pro-life move­
May 1997. lie and his family 
ment, Catholic education and
underwrote construction in 
interfaith relations. Educated at
1992 of Notre Dame's Charles 
St. Charles Seminary in
A. Fischer Graduate 
Philadelphia and the Pontifical
Residences, erected in honor of 
Gregorian University in Rome,
his father, and recently made 
he was ordained a priest for the 
possible the renovation of the 
Diocese of Harrisburg, Penn., in 
new Trafalgar Square site of 
1955. Ho served as a special
Notre Dame's London Study 
advisor to the Second Vatican
Centre, to be named in honor of 
Council before returning to his
his mother, Marian Kennedy 
home diocese, where he ulti­
Fischer. 
mately became bishop in 1984.
• Juliet Villarreal Garcia, 
He was appointed archbishop of 
president, University of Texas 
Baltimore in 1989 and was ele­
at Brownsville and Texas 
vated to Cardinal five years
Southmost College, doctor of 
later. He was president of the
laws. One of the nation's most 
National Conference of Catholic 
influential Hispanic leaders,
Saunders Mac Lane 








Interested in being on the Sophomore Literary Festival committee tor next year? 
Applications due Friday, 
April 17 
For information, call Jim Bilek at 4-17'44 


WASHINGTON 
Big universities too often neglect their undergraduates in favor of research, even though undergraduates pay a big share of the costs, says an independent report enti­tled, "Heinventing Undergraduate Education: A Blueprint for America's Hesearch Universities," released yesterday. "Baccalaureate students are the second­class citizens who are allowed to pay taxes but are barn1d from voting, the guests at the banquet who pay their share of the tab but are given leftovers," said the report from the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The panel of scholars and some outsiders assembled by the nonprofit organization found that undergraduate students are often taught by badly trained or untrained teaching assis­tants, not the famous professors touted in the catalogs or recruiting materials. 
Public school wins case over church 
WASHINGTON 
The Supreme Court today refused to force a New York City public school to rent its build­ing for a church's weekly worship services. The court. without comment, rejected an appeal in which the church's lawyers argued that the school cannot refuse to allow wor­ship services on its property while allowing some community groups to rent rooms after hours. The appeal said the school district's policy violates the church's constitutional freedoms of speech and religion. The Bronx Household of Faith, an evangelical Christian church, meets in a house and has bought land to construct a church building. In September 1994, the church sought permis­sion to rent the Anne Cross Mersereau Middle School in the Bronx on Sunday mornings. 
Virginia court sentences boy in 'Pimp' case 
FAIRFAX, Va. 
;\ 13-year-old boy who bragged to police that his nickname was "Mr. Pimp" was sen­tenced Monday to two months in juvenile detention and ordered to seek counseling for trying to arrange sex for hire among his class­mall's. The boy confessed that he had a list of 12-and 13-year-old girls who paid to be part of a sex club at Langston Hughes Middle School in Heston. Prosecutors said he approached other boys, offering to set up sex with as many as three girls at once. The judge sentenced the boy to 60 days in a juvenile detention center and to a three-to six-month residential counseling program. 
Nasdaq:-25.66 1887.14 +20.54 

NYSE: 584.01 
-.10 

S&P 500: Composite 1123.65 Volume:9141.84 +.93 720,136,400 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

nnr1e~t~~~ IICtr;t'B 1H1 !::HtU:U:Il :1 ~i~ltll I!BICr 
!\.1ARKET GUIDE \1ARG 164.58 4.94 7.93 ICC TECI-INOUJGIES ICGN 51.14 2.09 6.19 BRILLIANT DIGITAL BDE 50.00 1.07 3.18 !'ITN COMMUNICATION NTN 45.46 0.66 2.00 KTEL I~TO KTEL 45.10 12.96 41.63 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

INTERNEURON PilAR IPIL 47.30 7.12 7.94 NORLAND MEDICAL NRLD 23.40 0.69 2.75 FUTUREBIOTIC5 VITK 21.43 0.75 2.75 WICKES INC WIK) 20.25 2.00 7.88 VOICE CONTROL VC51 18.27 1.19 5.31 
MEXIJO CITY 
Poet and philo~opher Octavia Paz, who pr~ed the contradictions f the Mexican soul throug prose and verse that lo~t him many friends and won him a Nobel Prize, died ~unday after a long illness. i-Ie was 
84. ' 
President Ernesto IZedillo announced the dea•h from his jet yesterday While he was returning fr~m the Summit of the Americas in Chile. Mexican news reports said Paz died late Sujnday at his home in the Mex;ico City neighborhood of Coypacan. 
Paz had been sick for years with what he tailed a "long and wretched'~ illness. In November, after a European news agelj.cy pre­maturely report~d his death, Paz called a: televi­sion station to joke: '1It pains me that those who insist on killin?, me are in !such a hurry. 
1 
After a wake yestt1rday at the literary foundation that bears his name, politicians and writers gathered at the nation's Fine Arts P~lace for a memorial service 'for one of their most admired sages. 
"This is an irreplaceable loss for contemporary thought and cultun~ -not just for Latin America but for the entire world," the president said. , 
"He is the greatest Mexican writer of a~l times and one of the pr~ncipal writers of this centu~y," said prominent hi~torian Enrique Krauze. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman James Rubin said: "We in the United States will 


remember him with great affection and gratitude for his revealing explanations of the reality and complexity of our southern neighbor." 
Using a clear and simple writing style that broke with Mexico's baroque literary traditions, Paz explored the Mexican psyche, including the contradiction between its Indian and Spanish roots. 
He still is best known for two of his earlier wor~s: the book-length essay "The Labyrinth of Solitude" and the poem "Sun Stone." 
Paz won the Miguel Cervantes Prize, Spain's most prestigious award, in 1982. In 1987, he was given the T.S. Eliot Award in Chicago. And three years 
nvicts r 
after that, he captured the Nobel Prize for literature. 
He also founded Vuelta, which would become one of Latin America's most presti­gious literary magazines, in 1976. 
Paz grew up on the edge of Mexico City. His father was secretary to Emiliano Zapata, a peasant leader of Mexico's 1910-1920 revolu­tion. When Zapata was murdered in 1919, the Paz family went into brief exile in Los Angeles. 
Back in Mexico, Paz pub­lished his first poem when he was 16 and his first essay a year later. During law school at Mexico City's National Autonomous University, he joined a Marxist student group, the beginning of a long involve­ment with leftist causes. 

Paz went to Spain and joined the Republican forces fighting ·rightist Gen. Francisco Franco in the civil war. Paz insisted on going to the front, but was never given a rifle and -appar­ently because some doubted his leftist credentials -was sent back to Mexico. 
He later joined Mexico's diplomatic service, working in France, Japan and the United States. 
In 1968, Paz resigned as ambassador to India to protest a bloody attack by soldiers on students in Mexico City's Tlatelolco Square. He said he could no longer represent his govern­ment. 
anti-abortionists 

, ...... " .. • ,... '.
page 6 TheDoserver • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April21, 1998 
Journalist 
continued from page 1 
She believes that everyone learns by doing. Gregory also said that internships are also very valuable opportunities. 
When asked how she bal­ances a career and a family, Gregory said that "women can have it all. but not at the same time." She said it becomes extremely difficult to balance a personal and a professional life. 
Gregory stated that most of her work is full of "high stress and deadline pressure." 
But how does she feel about her career dlleision? 
"I love it," she said. 
Expanding on her love of pressure, Gregory said that individuals must "learn to be cautious and deal with the pressure." She said that she "responds better to the pres­sure." 
Gregory also discussed ethi­cal journalism. 
"Integrity is about all you havP no matter what lield you go into," she said. 
She also stressed the impor­tance of reporting both sides of' a story with equal access. 
As a contributor to the Arts and Entertainment Channel's "Biography" series, Gregory won a 1994 ace Cable Award l'or best documentary with her 
Please recycle The Observer 
biography of Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
Gregory has won many addi­tional journalism awards. One of her television specials on defense contractors won the national Headliners Award for Outstanding Investigative Reporting by a TV Network. 
"TV Guide" included Gregory in its list of "Top Ten Investigative Reporters in Television News," and in 1995, she won the prestigious Edward Murrow Award for her daily wrap-ups of the O.J. Simpson trial. 
"Bettina Gregory made jour­nalism real for the audience. I like how she described the decision-making process in assigning stories and the chal­lenge. of meeting deadlines," said Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred. "She portrays well the balance faced by so many women with demanding careers and raising a family." 
"She completely confirmed my ideas about my future goals," said Heather O'Donnell, a communication major. 
"She is a captivating speak­

• 
Be iV\volved with cooJ-AdiV\atioV\ of the LJ\J-AbaV\ PllAV\ge· 

• 
All paJ-AticipaV\ts a"•e iV\vited to apply 


Applications currently available in the Center for Social Concerns 
Monday,April27, 1998 is the deadline 
er. She talked about the excitement of her career, the ethical dilemmas and her per­sonal life issues she faces," Lori McKeough, student body vice-president added. 
The Shaheen President's Lecture Series is endowed by the Shaheen family, longtime benefactors of Saint Mary's. The series is designed to bring the students and Michiana community into direct contact with significant changes occur­ring in society as seen though the eyes of those most closely involved. 

• CORRECTION 
In a graphic printed in The Observer on Friday, April 17, three people on the Saint Mary's College Board of Governance were incorrectly identified. The 
tOft-Campus commissioner is Patti Meagher. The Public Relations and Communi-cations commis· sioners are Crissie Renner and Faye Lenahan. 
The Observer regrets thll error. 
and Theatre 
presents 
As 
iKe 
~: It 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wednesday, April 22 -7:30 p.m. Thursday, April 23 -7:30 p.m. Friday, April 24 -7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 25-7:30 p.m. Sunday, April 26 -2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats -$8 Senior Citizens -$7 Students -$6 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Oflrce MasterCard and VISA orders cal163t-6126 
GRADUATES 

Look behind you and rt:member where it is that you came from. Look in front ofyou and see whee it is that you want to go. Look down that long and winding road and ask yourself .. How the heck am I gonna get there? 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Credit Cards Auto Loans First Mortgages Internet Banking 24-Hour Loan-By-Phone Touch-Tone Teller 
For People. Not For Profit. (219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 

www.ndfcu.org 

Independent ofthe University 
e-mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 

....................................--------------,_ 
~ 


Tuesday, April21, 1998 
page 7 
Court defeats anti-abortion movement 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

In an unusual use of a rack­eteering law designed to fight the mob, a federal jury ruled 
Monday that anti-abortion Although the abortion foes
1 

protest organizers used I were ordered to pay only threats and violence to shut about $258,000, the class­down clinics -a verdict that action ruling opened the door could cost the movement mil­for more claims by as many as lions. i 1,000 clinics across the coun-

Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group 
Today, Tuesday, April2l, 1998 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. AII Meetin s are rivate and co1nfidentiaI. 
... CIO LIBRARIAN INTERFACE DESIGNER PRESERVATIONIST WEBMASTER ... RENOWNED FACULTY 
ENGAGED IN THE WORLD 
LEADING-EDGE RESEARCH 
MULTIDISCIPLINARY LEARNING 
t 
Meeting for 
The Information Age ]s Here. Envision It. 


School of Information Vniversity of Michigan 
I 
www.si.umich.edu/envisionit/ 
734.7 63.2285 

try. 
"This is the biggest court­room defeat for the anti-abor­tion movement ever," declared Fay Clayton, an attorney for the National 
Organization for Women, 
which filed the lawsuit in 
1986. 
Defense attorneys said the verdict would be appealed and Cardinal Francis George announced that the Chicago Archdiocese would consider joining the appeal as a friend of the court, calling the ver­dict "unjust." 
"The decision in this case 
effectively equates freedom of 
speech with racketeering," 
the cardinal said in a state­
ment. 
The jury found that anti­
abortion activist Joseph 
Scheidler and two associates, 
Timothy Murphy and Andrew 
Scholberg, engaged in 21 acts 
of extortion to shut down clin­
ics. The jury also found that 
two anti-abortion organiza-
CLC 
continued from page 1 
stituent of the students," said FitzSimons. He went on to add that extending non-voting sta­tus to a CCC representative would be "the first step in rep­resenting the 5,000 students involved in clubs." 
"The CCC would be an inte­gral part of this body," Davis agreed. She also emphasized the need for representation of the large number of students involved in clubs. 
Other members of the coun­cil recognized the importance of the CCC, but questioned whether non-voting status was tions, the Pro-Life Action League and Operation Rescue, were part of the scheme. 

The jury ordered the three activists and two organiza­tions to pay $85,926.92 in damages, which will be tripled under the racketeering law. 
The damages were awarded to abortion clinics in Milwaukee and Wilmington, Del., for security measures required after violence flared outside their doors. But a number of other clinics intend to file for class-action dam­ages under the verdict. 
"They want to bankrupt us -there's no question about that," said Scheidler, execu­tive director of the Pro-Life Action League. 
Operation Rescue founder Randall Terry originally was named in the lawsuit. But already facing $169,000 in court awards from two other abortion lawsuits, he settled with NOW in January and was no longer part of the case. 
the appropriate avenue. 
Kirk concurred with Scheidler. adding that all members of the Notre Dame community are invited to CLC meetings and that anyone may add his or her opinion to the debate if they had recognition from the Chair. Kirk also stat­ed that those students who participate in clubs are most likely already well-represented by the current members of the council. 
Debate concluded soon thereafter, and the final vote on the resolution was held. Eight members voted for the resolution, five opposed, and two abstained. The count fell short of the 10 votes necessary for passage, and the bill ulti­mately failed. 

251-0674 
MATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chefin Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
VIEWPOINT 

page 8 Tuesday, April21, 1998 

Loss of Garrick 
The Boy with the Ultimate Excuse 
Brings Sadness, 
There used to be a kid in my neigh­ one time that our mothers were talk­ fared any better. But that's not where  
Raises  borhood who was a couple of years older than I was. His name was Joe.  ing on the phone. They don't remem­ber what they were talking about. but  Joe's story ends. It's recently been revealed that Joe  
Although our parents were good  today. everyone knows where they  had been the victim of repeated sexual  
Questions  friends. we had a difficult time getting along. There was an underlying ten·  were the day Joe first took scissors to the phone cord. and the second time.  abuse by a La Feria man. The abuse had continued for more than a decade.  
Wo wish to offer two thoughts on the recent controversy between the Rewt·end David Garrick, C.S.C., <md tho University's C.S.C. administrators. First, the administration's com­ments regarding Fr. Garrick's preach· ing have left many people asking such questions as: Who evaluates the Basilica's homilies? According to what criu~rla? How are these evaluations communicated to the homilists? Second, we are saddened that David Garrkk will no longer live, teach and preach among us. David has enriched our lives with his fine talent in drama and public speaking, and he has sue· ceeded In sharing his expertise with students in the classroom and on the stagP. Alr.;o, David Garrick is a person of intogrity. During his years among us, he has improved the quality of our UniVersity with his honesty, high moral prindples and concern for oth­ers. We are sorry that David has cho­sen to leave the University of Notre name. His depruture is our loss. We hope that our University will mature into a community in which David Garrick ru1d othM persons will fHel immediately welcomed and val­ued. We pray that God might enliven our hearts and minds with a new spir­it of inclusion during the Easter sea­ sion to our friendship. and when words failed us (they usually did). Joe and I would end up on the ground, punching and kicking each other as hard as we could. Isaac Ruiz Joe and I went to the same school and lived just two blocks away from each other-albeit in La Feria. that's practically across town. But even as children. we knew we lived in different worlds. My parents wouldn't let me out of the house until I finished my homework, my chores and everything else I had to do. And as much as sho tried . .Joe's mom couldn't keep tabs on him. When I could. I'd ride my bike around the church parking lot with my church friends. but Joe would ride his all around town. My friend Joe never did well in school ­he was always in trouble for some reason or another ­and it wasn't long before he was slapped with the label "hyperactive." Although  and ... You get the picture. And did he have a flare for pyrotech­nics! Every Fourth of July. Joe would show up at my house with a box full of illegal fireworks bought in Mexico. Armed with our weapons of mass destruction. we'd set out to make the neigh­bors' kids look like pansies. Joe's love affair with fire wasn't limited to national holi­days. "You wanna come over and play with gasoline?" he asked one Sunday. I didn't join him, but the next day at school, there was something different about Joe. His eye­brows and eye­lashes had burned off when he got too close to tho lire. For a while. he walked around with a hairless face. But that was Joe. As we grew up, we grew apart. I stopped spending my time beating him  When we were children, I thought Joe usod his ultimate excuse. "hyperactivi­ty," to get away with everything. As an adult. Jon was too ashamed to raise his history of sexual abuse at trial. lit~ received a maximum sentence. and today. he receives no assis­tance in dealing with the trauma. I remem­ber .Jon's grandpar­ents used to live with him and his mom. When he'd get in trouble. his frail grand­fatlwr. barely able to speak. would rise and tell his mother not to scold him. "No me In peguen!" (Don't hit him.) .Joe's mom would proceed with the punishment. though. Back then. no one listened to the old man. Today. we  
SOIL  today his condition earns a politically  up or watching him set things on fire.  all wish we had.  
Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C. Dircccor. Ccnrcr fur Ethics and Religious Values in Business Dept. ofManagemenr and Administrative Sciences  correct Attention Dnficit Disorder (ADD) classillcation. back then I thought his hyperactivity was the ulti­mate excuse for bad behavior. For Joe it was a source of shame.  From the little I saw of him. I knew that he had taken up drugs and was keeping bad company. Sometime in high school. he was prosecuted for arson. and he's still in jail.  Isaac Ruiz is a first year law stu­dent. /lis column appears every other Tuesday. H-mail him at lsaac.Ruiz.13@nd. edu.  
Robert A. Krieg, C.S.C. Dept. ofThrology April17, 1998  "Joe. did you take your pill today?" his mom would ask on days when is behavior was especially bad. There were Jots of those days. I remember  His family tells me that he no longer takes his ADD medication. His attempt to earn a GED in prison has failed. and trips before the parole board haven't  The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer.  

•  000NESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
lr ONt.Y JACK HAO FOUN!? A~lXJOI< 7V FtaAT ON/ 7H&N He ANP~ COUL.P HAV& RJ/.FIIL&P 7He/R 7Rl£ CEG77NY.  JACK t<IAS 9JGAti.ANT ANONAV& ANOBe.AUTI­FUt..I/RYP//?H&HAV&70 [}l&r I lJl;77lfR h'AV&A MOMENTOFS/f.E/>.IIZ...  

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'The British are terribly 
lazy about fighting. 
They like to get it over and 
done with and then set up a 
game of cricket.' 
-Stephen Leacock 
VIEWPOINT

Tuesday, April21, 1998 page 9 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? • GUEST COLUMN 
Administration's Homosexual Policy Does Not Make Sense 
If you want a sure bet, don't waste your money on the Chicago Cubs. Put it on the proposition that every semester, the homosexual issue will boil over at Notre Dame. 

Charles Rice 
The precipitating event this time was the resignation of a Holy Cross priest, an acknowledged but celibate homosexual, from the Notre Dame faculty. But the issue will keep com­ing up because the administration's policy is an exercise in cognitive dis­sonance that caricatures the Church, misleads students and guar­antees a resentful reaction. 
The University denies recognition to GLND/SMC because, in the words of Vice-President O'Hara, that group's "value-neutral approach" and its approval of "stable. monoga­mous Ihomosexual! relationships," are not "consistent with ofl'ieial Church teaching." 
The Catechism of the Catholic Church states that "'homosex­ual acts are intrinsically disordered.' They are contrary to natural law. They close the sexual act to the gift of life (No. 2357)." But it also affirms that the inclina­tion to those acts is itself dis­ordered: "The number of men and women who have deep-seated homo­sexual tenden­cies is not neg­ligible. This inclination, which is objec­tively disordered, constitutes for most of them a trial. 
\

They must be accept­ed with respect, com­passion and sensitivity. "'· Every sign of unjust dis­crimination in their regard should be avoided (No. 2358)." 
The 1986 Letter to Bishops on The Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons, issued with the approval of the Pope, said: "Although the partic­ular inclination of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is more or less a strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder." 
Why is this point important? The administration's position that homo­sexual acts are merely contrary to "official Church teaching" conveys the impression that the wrongness of such acts is not objectively rooted in nature, but rather that their pro­hibition is an arbitrary imposition by Church authorities. This is com­pounded by the administration's effective denial that the inclination to those acts is "objectively disor­dered" and especially by its efforts to discourage students even from hearing the contrary view. 
This year, the Maritain Center pre­sented lectures to discuss the evi­dence that the homosexual inclina­tion is a disorder, that it is not innate and that a change in that inclination can be achieved in some cases. The lecturers included Dr. 
Joseph Nicolosi, Dr. Jeffref Satinover, Fr. Benedict As ley, O.P., Fr. John Harvey, the foun er of Courage, and others. Cam us Ministry had a full-page 0 server ad to discourage attendance ~t the pre­sentations. The Counseling Center placed an Observer ad to 4ffirm its position that "homosexualtty is not a mental disorder" and that ,"[g]iven the fact that there is no scientifically confirmed evidence that a 'person's sexual orientation is changeable through psychotherapy, Wl:l do not provide 'conversion therapy,' 'repar­ative therapy' or any other similar reported treatment." The Maritain Center speakers, who would not be at a disadvantage in a comparison of professional creden­tials with anyone on this campus, offered a contrary view. "Homosexuality," said Dr. Nicolosi, "is a gender-related identity disor­der. Gay, on the other hand, is a social political identity." Dr. Nicolosi, who is director of The National Association of Research and Therapy of Homosexu:ality, said: "Students at Notre Dame might be interested in learning mm1e about homosexuality from a pedpective they won't i 
hear 
from their university professors ... 
You may be surprised, indeed, at 
what you learn. That ... no 'gay 
gene' has been found ... and that 
many studies show that change is 
possible." As Dr. Satinovet said: 
"Homosexuality is not genetic and 
not innate. It occurs over a number 
of years in a certain envir~nment." 
Our leaders mean well ~nd have 
the interests of the studeiJits at 
heart. But the Administration mis­
leads students in its refu4l to 
acknowledge that the homosexual 
inclination is itself disordered. If, as 
the Catechism states, the acts are 
"objectively disordered," how could 
the inclination to those acts be any­
thing but disordered? But if, as the 
Administration maintains, the incli­
nation is not disordered, why may it 
not be acted upon? The 
Administration policy makes no 
sense. No wonder that students and 
others resent it as arbitrary. 
The 1986 Letter to Bishops said, 
"[T]he proper reaction to crimes 
committed against homosexual per­
sons should not be to claim that the 
homosexual condition is not disor­dered ... [D]eparture from the church's teaching or silence about it, in an effort to provide pastoral care, is neither caring nor pastoral. Only what is true can ultimately be pas­toral. The neglect of the church's position prevents homosexual men and women from receiving the care they need and deserve." 
The administration claims to be upholding "official Church teach­ing." If our leaders believe, as the Church teaches, that the homosexu­al inclination is itself disordered, why don't they say so? If they them­selves do not believe it, why don't they cash in their chips and turn the job over to persons who do believe it? 
One reason for the administra­tion's incoherence here is that, for the last three decades, Notre Dame has claimed to be "Catholic" accord­ing to its own private interpretation of that term. Notre Dame still fol­lows the Land O'Lakes declaration of 1967, in which the major Catholic universities insisted that "the Catholic university must have a true autonomy in the face of authority of whatever kind, lay or clerical, exter­nal to the academic community itself." In reality, Notre Dame's 
"autonomy" is qualified by its acqui­escence in the politically correct standards of the secular edu­
~ 
cational establishment. It would be very politically incorrect for the , Administration to agree with the Church that the inclination to homosexual acts 
r is "objectively disordered." Although the 
administra­tion denies formal recog­nition to GLND/SMC, its denial that 
the inclination is disordered cedes to the 
homosexual movement the 
decisive point and, incidentally, plays into the hands 
of the secular estab­lishment by implicitly conceding that Church teaching here, and presum­ably elsewhere, is an arbitrary dictate. 
In the process, students, especially those of homosexual inclination who are genuinely searching for personal answers, are misled by the Administration into regarding the matter simplistically as involving their discovery of an innate, unchangeable orientation which entails subjection to an arbitrary Church prohibition on the expres­sion of that orientation. The word for this is scandal. 
The University bears responsibility for the lives that are distorted by its withholding from students of the hopeful, constructive teaching of the Church in its entirety. As long as the current policy endures, the homo­sexual issue will erupt again and again. The administration ought to redirect its policy in this area. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Businesses Need to Play Role in High School Education 

increasing number of high chool students cannot find jobs pon graduation according to education experts who spoke during con­gressional hearings on vocational educa­tion this summer. Coupled with the rising costs of college education, it seems that high school graduates are facing a bleak future. 
Michele Costello 
In order to provide high school students with better opportunities, all schools should institute comprehensive vocational education programs in the area of infor­mation technology. Such programs will enable students to find jobs upon gradua­tion if they are unable to attend college. In addition, local businesses should help cre­ate these programs and provide necessary equipment to facilitate class instruction. By studying a curriculum that businesses design themselves, students will be learn­ing skills that are relevant to employment with companies in their area. 
First and foremost, there is a void in vocational education among American public high schools. According to figures released from the Department of Education, 97 percent of all public high school graduates completed at least one vocational education course in 1992. Very few of these same graduates completed coherent sequences of vocational educa­tion courses, however many high school students are taking one course in subjects such as typing or computer skills, but are not completing a program that can lead to employment after they graduate. 
Secondly, the shift toward an informa­tion-technology based economy in the United States creates the need to redesign our current vocational education curricu­lums and provides an excellent opportuni­ty to create new programs as old ones become obsolete. Local companies could feasibly create a high school training pro­gram that would take the place of job training for current new-hires at that company. By investing in schools and helping design vocational education pro­grams, companies would be saving their time and money. 
The companies in question would also be guaranteed a steady supply of new, trained entry-level workers. For example, Company X could install a computer pro­gram in the local high school's computer cluster that entry-level employees must use. Then, Company X could tailor their current training program to fit into the context of high school study. In this way, students would be able to study their reg­ular high school curriculum along with a vocational training curriculum that could lead to employment with the sponsoring company upon graduation. The school gains the benefit of new technology for all students while increasing the employabili­ty of their graduates. 
In Canada, many schools have been "adopted" in full by major corporations. Pilot programs of this type are also being tested in American high schools. All of our high schools should look much more aggressively at the business community to contribute in meaningful ways to the edu­cation and training of high school stu­dents. This action would rightfully decrease the burden of educational fund­ing which falls on the national govern­ment. 
Michele Costello is a junior arts and let­ters major who lives in Pangborn Hall. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


_m___ 
C:.~
c 0­

page 10---------------------------------------------------~0BSERVER -------------------Tuesday, April 21, 1998 

It's that time of year aga 
AnTostal Returns. This Time with (jreg Brady. 
By ADAM MALLORD Sc~nc Copy Editor 

Studnnts look forward to finals week 
about as much as they look forward to 
getting root canals. The anxiety of the 
upcoming finals week is something 
that ean bo quelled, and the festiviti1~s 
of AnTostal might be the solution you 
are looking for. 

AnTostal. r.n~atNI in 19(,8 by the llall Presidents Council, began as an activi­ty that would be comparable to "Greek Wnek" at other universities at that time. The three-day festival (Gentle Thursday, Frivolous Friday, and Sunny Saturday) was ereated by the IIPC with a budget of only 25 dollars. 
The idea for Notre Dame's AnTostal came from the Irish festival "An Tostal." which lasts in some parts of Ireland from May to September. This festival started in Ireland in 1953 in order to save the country from its dis­mal attitude and weakened patrio­tism. 
Original activities for Notre Dame's week-long event included a folk-singing fes­tiv;tl, a beaeh party on St. Joseph's Lake (which includ!HI a bon fire and a handl. a pienic lunch. a tug-of-war eontnst. an egg­throwing contest, a "no hands" pie-eat­ing contest. several races and a greased pig chase. 
The tug-of-war con­tnst consisted of teams of I0 Notre Dame guys against 15 Saint Mary's girls. Just to make it inter­esting. there was a two-foot deep mud pit placed between the two competing teams. 
There was also a bed race con­sisting of teams of seven members. Tlw tnarn provided its own bed, whieh had to have four wheels, four posts, and be over five-feet long. The bed also had to have a rider who was dressed in pajamas. 
Additionally, a water brigade contest was also held. The contest consisted of two events. The first was a race between teams ofl 0 students to fill up a 55-gallon water drum using a five­gallon bucket. The second was a race between eight-member teams of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. They had to fill up a two-pound coffee tin using a Dixie cup passed from mouth to mouth. 
The pinnade of enjoyment, however, was the greased pig chase. The HPC bought five pigs, and teams of five members had to slip and slide through the mud in order to catch the pigs and bring them to a designated location. 
Tho second year of AnTostal appears to have been even more fun, with events such as a beer can stack­ing contest in front of Badin Hall. The highest stack of cans by 10 p.rn ., using a thirty-can base. won a ease of beer. 
Another addition to the activities was a jail house in the middle of South Quad. Students had the chance to have their friends captured by two bouncers and put in the jail house until they paid to be released. 
Cow-milking does not seem like it would be a lot of fun. But in the second annual AnTostal event, they had a con­test for that, too. The person who could fill a Dixie cup the fastest and then drink the product 
of their labor won the 
e o n ­test. Spots in 
the contest were limited, though, because cows only have a limited supply of milk. 
Over the next couple of years, sever­al other events were added to AnTostal, including a kissing contest (in which only lips could touch), the Jocks vs. Saint Mary's College Basketball game, an impersonation contest, piano smashing and the Irish Wake. 
The winner of the first kissing con­test, J.T. Lyons, won with a kiss of six hours and 35 minutes, according to the Thursday, April 22, 1971 issue of The Observer. His time was beaten by stu­dents with a time of over 10 hours in later contests, however. 
The Jocks vs. Saint Mary's College Basketball game consisted of Notre Dame athletes wearing boxing gloves playing against Saint Mary's girls. 
To be admitted to the Irish Wake, which was held on the Friday of AnTostal, couples had to pay one dol­lar for bus transportation to wherever it was to be held, plus admission; for this they received 10 free beers per couple. 
Much has changed since the initial years, however, and most of these events can no longer take place. The pig chasing was canceled in the early 1970s because of the Humane Society's involvement. There is cer­
tainly no longer 
alcohol 
allowed in the 
festivities because of the school's alcohol policy. The kissing contest was canceled in the early 1970s because the AnTostal commis­sioner thought it had no tact. The mud pits were no longer used after 1994. 
However, the current commissioner of AnTostal, Christy Duvall, and the rest of the AnTostal committee have planned several events that will keep Notre Dame students happy and stress-free. 
One of these events is a speech by the real Greg Brady (Barry Williams), which will be held at Stepan Center on Thursday, April 23. He will also attend 

the 70s dance party at thn LaFortune 
Ballroom after the speech. 
"The Greg Brady speec:h is supposnd to be crazy and fun. It will not bn seri­ous at all," said Duvall. 
lie will talk about his off-the-sot 
romance with Marcia Brady (Maurnen 
McCormick), and he will also most 
likely dress up in 70s elothns. 
Another event selwduled is Tuesday's Singled Out dating game, which will be hnld in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
"Singled Out was really popular last year," said Duvall. "It was a lot of fun, and there were hundreds of people there. That's why we brought it back. The ballroom was busting at the seams." 
Students who wish to participate in the Singled Out show need to show up at the LaFortune Ballroom at 6:45 p.m. 
Students who want to watch the 
show need to arrive by 7 p.m. 
Another 1went plannnd is 
the Double Darn game, 
which is modeled after 
the messy 80s 
Nickelodeon game 
show. 
"Double Darn 
was really big 
last year. We 
spent a lot of 
money on 
Ill ashed potct­
tons, jello, 
cernal. ketchup 
and mayon­
naise. Wn also 
bought big 
whenls to rid1~ 
around." Duvall 
said. 
The game will 
include trivia and 
physical challenges this 
year, whereas last year's 
Double Dare only ineluded 
the obstade course. 
On Wednesday night there will be a Hippie Fest, in which three cam­pus bands will be performing. There will also be tie-dying, bead-making and sno-eones. 
On a more disappointing note, Vanilla Ice will not be corning to Notre Dame as planned because there would be chairs set up in Stepan Center. Evidently, Vanilla Ice only performs whelfl people can mosh to "lee, lee, Baby." 
The festivities will close on Sunday with the Hostile Tostal run, which is a 5 kilometer run that will be held at Stepan at 1:45. p.m. 
There may not be any beer ean tow­ers, mud pits, pigs, kissing games or tug-of-war contests, but there will be a lot of fun with the many activities at this year's AnTostal celebration. 
The Observer/Melissa Weber 
Decades Fun on the Quad 4-7 pm Fieldhouse Mall 
Line Dance Workshop 7-9 pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Ferris Bueller's Day Off Bpm Cushing Auditorium 





~------·--------~~~~~~------­
c 
s 

Tuesday, April 21, 1998 -----------------r-·~OBSERVER -----------------------------------------------page 11 
so let the 'tostals' begin
' 



"Decades fun on the Quad" Above: AnTostal festivities began yesterday with "Decades Fun on the Quad," which provided an opportunity for students to tie-dye T-shirts at Fieldhouse Mall. Above right: From 4-7 p.m., various bands, including a mariachi band, per­formed at Fieldhouse Mall. Below left: SUB provided cotton candy as part of the AnTostal Kick-Off. Photos by Patrick Quigley  

SMCTostal: coming Thursday to a college near you 
BY JANICE WEIERS p.m., with prize money A OJ will be on-hand to because they will be avail­Terrace. Gravity Hill will Assistant Scene Editor awarded to the winners and insure foot-tapping continues able at the door for free with follow at 9:30 p.m. 
many confused geese to look all afternoon and throughout proper identification. And after the musical .Jump out of a plane. forward to. Frisbee tossing dinner. Saint Mary's students Some local bands will be entertainment comes to a Or rather, just pretend to. and rollerblading activities as well as Notre Dame stu­on-hand to help with the cel­close, follow the crowd to the Race a canoe for prize will round out the afternoon dents are eligible to eat pic-ebration. Beginning at 7 library lawn once again for money. the last activity of the day: a Listen to local bands per­movie. Air Force One will be form without taking a cab. played on a big screen begin­
All these activities are ning at 11 p.m. being hosted by Saint Mary's T-shirts can be purchased, on Thursday as they cele­food can be eaten and prizes brate SMCtostal, an annual can be won. So there aren't end-of-the-year celebration. many reasons not to come, The theme of this year's unless you're allergic to fun. event is "Carnivale." And "It should be a good time. that's exactly what the cam­We tried to extend the activi­pus will look like. ties this year to make it a 
The kick-off activity will full-day event," said Katie begin at noon and will con­Wehby, chairwoman of tinue all afternoon. Extreme Student Activities Board. "I Air, a simulated sky-dive just hope the weather is emulator, will make its first nice." appearance in South Bend on Either way, the Saint the Saint Mary's library lawn. Mary's community has two 
So, if you've ever wondered years of celebration to catch what it was like to jump out up on. Last year, the activi­of an airplane, this is your ties were interrrupted mid­
chance. day by a bomb threat. Maybe 
A canoe race will take-over a cloudy day wouldn't be the the lake between 3 and 5 worst thing that could hap­
pen. 


schedule; prizes will be awarded to the deserving participants. 
-------------~ -~-----~­
--~~­
• 


al 

second in both competitions. "This has been the most eornpetative of which Papal Rage and Womb only fill about four of. The rest of the enthusiasts are interested stu­dents. 
"We've gotten a lot of campus support," said Kerbleski. "There have been a num­ber of pickup games, just students who have come out to have some fun." 
The team always welcomes interested students to play with them and form their own squads in an attempt to build Notre Dame's following. 
As for now, the Irish have their hands full with next weekend's tournament. Twenty teams will compete in four pools to determine the top three teams in each 

Tuesday, April 21, 1998 
The Observer/John Daily Three-year starter Julie Dintarnan throws around two Chicago defend­ers as the women's team cruises to a 13-4 victory. 
field, which will go on to play in the national tournament. 
Last year, the men's team finished fifth, but are confident this year they will finish higher. 
"We have some good chances. We'll l'aee No. 10 Carleton College, No. 9 Wisconsin, and No. 2 Colorado, all pere­nial powerhouses. But we did b(~at Colorado two weeks ago, and we can do it again." 
For a sport that relies on the spirit of the game, the Irish are going to great lengths to push that spirit to a new lnvel. 

Indiana/Illinois College Sectional r::1:i~~ ,,;;1);'!Champiolrships 
Men's Results Quarterfinals 
Notre Dame def Northwestern 15-4 
Semifinals 
Notre Dame def Purdue 15-7 
Flna1§' .-.·.--,, '>" 3; -' 
Notre Dame def Indiana 15-9 

Women's Results truarterfinals 
Notre Dame def Illinois 13-3 
~~em/finals 
Notre Dame def Chicago 13-4 
1:1nals 
Notre Dame def Indiana 10-9 
The Observer/Melissa Weber 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for nexr-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Tri-level 3 bedroom house, 1.5 235-3145. OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY and i'm still amd at you for calling miles from campus across from 4/26 1-3 PM me twice in the middle of the night Autumn -has border's kicked you
'--~N~O~T~IC~E~S....---__.11 FOR RENT 
park, with 1.5 bath, family room with out yet? fire place, 2 car garage & fenced in what did you think i was doing, 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Now Renting backyard. Has ale, stove, trig., d/w, PERSONAL washing my hair? Julie-have you gone to sleep yet? LaFortune Student Center Campus View g/d, & wid. WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 1 & 2 Bedrooms 960 per mo. 289-5057 or 232-4527 hac, hope your paper went well! Julie-oh no. you have a project 
AND WEEKENDS!!! 2 Blocks from campus Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale due tomorrow! Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight 272-1441 Bed & Breakfast for ND graduation MaiL Now open lor indoor/outdoor you too, brian, the boss-man Fri 7:30am -7:00pm & FootbalL 3 miles from ND. 287-play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID -1/2 no, you don't. but i bet i scared you, Sat Noon -6:00pm Summer and or Fall 3 bdr home. 4545 price field fee. i ... can't wait ... forever ... didn't I? Sun Noon -Midnight 2 blks from campus 273-1566 291-2540. 
CALL 631-COPY time won't LET ME-EEE Who built the ark? COLLEGE PARK APT.-spotless­Rooms in private house. 1 mile Hey -did you know... cheap rent tor summer-call 243-from ND. Summer rentaL wait that long Man, those late night shuttle rides
WANTED 

9309 Greg 634-0766 We're open early, late, and week­with you have been memorable. 
.-ends lor your convenience! oh thee from the planet shugah­CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR HOUSE LEASE 4BR 2BA PT 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 cheer up! SF and los gatos is not CM-want a mento? JOBS -Excellent benefits. World Need Summer Housing? FLIRN W/D/ D/W WALK-ND AVAIL LaFortune Student Center faraway... TraveL Ask us how! 517-324-3090 Rooms available in a house 6/1 GRAD PREF Phone 631-COPY love, hmm Anna, you really need to get rid of ext. C55841 3/4 of a mile from campus (773)288-8822 your posse of stalkers. 
Live with other students B, and just think about all those tun Sales/Marketing Internships Reasonable rates 5 bedroom house for rent for 98-99, When are you going to wear your long-distance bills ... 394 -we need to have another University Directories is hiring stu­Call4-1190 for INFO 1 05 Marquette 232-6964 new blue thing? Monday night soon. dents to sell yellow page advertis­M or don't ... ing for the official campus tele­Room for rent in 5 bdrm house. The Grasshopper is a social moron. phone directory this summer. Paid ALL SIZE HOMES Kitch, Washer, Dryer, Safe ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and no I will not take down your loll. internship. Training program. CLOSE TO CAMPUS Nghbrhd, close to campus. All babbling brooks in summer. Kara, you better start practicing 
Excellent sales/marketing & man­232-2595 Uti!. incl. $200. avaiL now. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­again your Spanish. 
agement experience. Call Paul Roy-232-2794 place in winter. Love and joy for 1-800-743-5556 Exl. 143 or visit 1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR your baby all year long. Happy, car­Hey Grasshopper, KK will see you Case scenario number one. www.universitydirectories.com CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES ing professional couple would love at Sorin this weekend ... you never lie for .... 
272-6551 to provide a newborn with love, joy missed your chance. and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1-Only really fabulous, well-connect­
[ FORSALE

FREE SUMMER STORAGE 800-484-7011 Pin #4523 CM-can you read minds? ed people know people who have Rec Sports is hiring student '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR. 
been on Jerry Springer. supervisors for next academic WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE. Beautiful brass bed, queen size, Earn Free Computer, Monitor and SR-Yes. Dionne Warwick just year. Freshmen and sophomores 234-3831/273-0482 with orthopedic mattress set and Printer. Call:255-6455 called to recruit me today. not like we're trying to drop names preferred. Must qualify for work/ deluxe frame. New, never used, still or anything like that study. Sports interest and/or 4BR house close to ND. plastic. $225 gosh i love working both shifts CM-That's so funny. My psychic background helpfuL Apply by grad students only unfurnished. 219-862-2082 frienc told me she was going to call Twins who hate their twin's lover. April 23, Rec Sports office. 233-1727 1,300 i really do you! Coming at you on the next Jerry 
Springer. 
84 Nissan Sentra 4dr. that means i am the dictator!!! ha ha Sr-Won't you be my neighbor? MODELS NEEDED! Female and ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA­$1200. ha Bring back Whopner. Judge Judy Male Models for an upcoming TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. Greg 288-3408 CM-It wuold be lovely to live in a and Ed Koch just are not cutting it 
AVEDA production. Model calls are LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM­that was an evil laugh. neighborhood with you. Alright already? being held now. Have fun and get PUS, CONT. BRKFSTINCL. CALL 1575 OAKHILL 2 BDRM 
a great new look. Please call 1-800-277-8340 2 BATH CONDO VAULTED lj, you always try to fire me and it Photo Joe-Quit makin!J mysterious She's your boss, applesauce! 356-5533 ext 12091or information. GREAT ROOM W/ FRPL FOR never works calls. We know it's you, you fine SALE. TO SEE CALL JONI/REMAX specimen. 
Tuesday, April 21, 1998 The Observer I• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Librar): 631-7!100 112 Badin Hall: 631-52-12 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Tuesday, April 14~ 7:00 pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, April22, 3:00pm, Basilica of Sacred Heart 
Memorial Service in Celebration of the Life of Dr. Erskine A. Peters 
I 
Friday-Saturday, April 24-25 ARE YOU LESBIAN? GAY? BISEXUAL? QUESTIONING? ARE YOU A FRIEND OF SOMEONE WHO IS? Campus Ministry~s SECOND ANNUAL RETREAT 
for lesbian, gay and bisexual undergraduate students 
and their friends. *STUDENT~LED *STUDENT TALKS *CONVERSATION For more information or to register, please call or e~mail: Kate, 1~5242 katharine.~.barrett.28@nd.edu Mark, 4-1933 mark.f.massoud.1@nd.edu Alyssa, 4-1884 alyssa.l.hellrung.S@nd.edu  *PRAYER  
Saturday-Sundayt April 25-26 Senior ROTC Retreat  
Monday, April27, 7:00pm, Basilica Mass and Rite of Confirmation Presider: Bishop Daniel Jenky, CSC  _  

Please come to suppport and celebrate with these men and women of the Notre Dame community! 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April21, 1998 
• WOMEN's GOLF 

Irish back in action with best season p~erformances 

ProFessors ~a.k_e Pla11es. 
Need a little separation from the establishment? How does 30,000 feet sound? Well, thanks to our special Amtrak® student discounts, there's never been a better time to choose rhe cool, casual comfort ofan Amtrak train. 
As a :special offer, show us your face, a student ID to match, and give them the code "Y814" and you get 10% off. Better yet, ifyou have a Stllldent Advantage Card stuffed 
away in your book bag, you get 25%. 
Go home. Visit friends. Even go back for summer classes if you have to? All at up to 25% off regular fares. You do the math. Good for travel between April 13 and June 20, and includes any of the over 500 destinations Amtrak serves. 
Hurry. Seats are limited (this isn't a term paper you can blow off to the last minute). For more information on fares & reservations, call your travel agent or Amtrak at 1-800-USA-RAIL. Trains depart from the Amtrak station at 2702 W Washington Ave. in South Bend. 


By GENE BRTALIK Spores Writer 

After a two week absence from the links, the women's golf team returned to action this past weekend at the Illinois Spring Classic and showed no signs of rust. 
The team came out on the first day and played the best round of the season and sec­ond best of the year. 
Leading the way for the Irish was senior Tracy Melby, the winner of last year's Illinois Spring Classic. Melby came out and fired a 4 under 71 on the 5,840-yard Orange Course. 
The 71 matched the record for lowest round while the 4 under set a new standard for lowest round to par. 
After day one it seemed that Melby would repeat as cham­pion as she held a two-shot lead. 
ThH second day saw Melby falter and record an 81 for a total of 152 and a second place finish behind Jessica Popiel of Toledo. 
Her score of 152 is the fourth lowest total for 36 holes in team history, while her 2 over is the best-ever 36-hole score to par. The team-leading finish also marked the 12th time she has finished first in her career, and she now stands in third place in that category. 
As Melby faltered so did the rest of the team. They came away from day two with a team score of 332, which dropped them into a tie with host Illinois for first place. 
Rounding out the field for the Irish was senior Katie King, who shot rounds of 77 and 81 to achieve a fifth-place finish out of 89 competitors. Freshman Mary Klein's total of 163 was good enough for 13th place, following behind her in 14th place was sophomore Andrea Klee (164). 
King's stroke average of 
79.86 puts her on pace to best her record-breaking scoring average of 80.17 last year. done before in a seasl[)n of 21 respective records this week­Klee's score has counted in all or more rounds. end as the team travels to Ohio 21 rounds that the team has Both King and Klee will be State to play in their last tour­played, which no player has given shots to bea.t their nament of the season. 

0
~~~'-.'\.\....')~ ~'£.""'£~'-~ 
Tuesday, April 21,6:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 
OR 

Ihursday, April 23, 5:30p.m., Hcsburgh Librar·y Auditorium, Notre Dame 

Open to all ND/SMC students 
Challenging academic program at 

Opportunity for travel and study
Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, 

in man) countries of the Far East,
focusing on the Asi~tn world 

Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern 
16 semester credits applicable towards 

Europe and Western Europe 
core or major requirements 

INFORHATIOI'\ AND API'LICATIOt\S AVAilABLE SI IORT VIDEO Or\ HIGHLIGIITS ALU!-11\'1 TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Any questions, call Dr. C Pulfapilfy, 284-4468 . 
. .:~ ..·....~· . 

TaJ Maha\ 


W.EL.""0""'-=='
:; ' '-· i .-..... 
Offer shown is for coach class travel only and is subject to availability. Reservations are required. No multiple discounts. Fares, schedules and restrictions are subject to change without notice. Blackout dales may apply. 
I A M T R A K~
Not valid for Autotrain, peak Metroliner, or Canadian portion of ViaRail. 



-:;sa 
page 15
Tuesday, April21, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• BASEBALL 
Notre o·ame defines its role for remainder of season 
PICK UP YOUR YEARBOOK! 
Wednesday, April 22, 1:oo-5:oo 
& 7:00-9:00 Thursday, April 23, 1:oo-5:oo Friday, April 24, 1:oo-5:oo 
dome 
108 LaFortune 

By ALLISON KRILLA Associate Spotts Editor 
Notre Dame's baseball team has worked consistently all sea­son with one goal in mind ­winning. 
And there's no question that the team has talent. 
But on this squad, the Brant Usts and Jeff Wagners are not the only ones stepping up to win 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1999-2000. 
All first year students, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Thursday evening, April 23, 1998 at 6:30pm in room 126 DeBartolo. 
games. 

Senior second baseman Todd Frye divulged the secret of Notre Dame's success: "Everyone understands their role." 
Junior catcher Mike Knecht understands his role as a backup to first-team all-Big East selec­tion Jeff Wagner. That hasn't stopped the five-foot-six Knecht from starting 11 more games than he did in 1997 and improv­ing on his lone hit that year. Knecht ranks second on the team in an often unheralded cat­egory: sacrifice bunts. Frye holds the top spot with seven sac bunts on the year. 
Outfielder Jeff Perconte also knows the importance of his r6le. Tonight against Michigan, ~erconte finds himself in a famil­iar position in the batting order behind the hard-hitting Ust. 
"A lot of teams try to pitch around [Ust] because he's so good," said Perconte. "My job is to drive in runs when we've got guys on base, and just do what­ever it takes up there to help the team." 
Perconte, along with Jeff Felker, leads the team with three triples. 
The Wolverines (15-16-1) host the Irish at Old Kent Park in Grand Rapids, Mich., at 7 p.m. 

Last year, Notre Dame was in the midst of a seven-game win streak when Michigan overcame the Irish, 4-3. 
Although below .500, the 1997 Big Ten regular-season confer­ence champions present a formi­dable task for the Irish, who are riding a nine-game unbeaten streak. 
"We're excited to play them," said Perconte. "It's always fun to play at Old Kent Park. Plus, we'll be wearing our old-time uni­forms and they'll be wearing theirs, and being a Big Ten school they always get a huge crowd." 
Michigan began the season in the Top 25, but has since fal­tered. 
Leading the Wolverine attack is senior outfielder Derek Besco, who batted .391 with 11 homers and 63 RBI in 1997, and sibling Bryan, the lefty Besco brother who anchors the Wolverine infield at first base. 
Tonight's contest is also a 
game the Irish need to win to 
keep their momentum in the 
weeks ahead, when they face the 
three toughest teams in the Big 
East-Seton Hall, St. John's and 
West Virginia. A win on the road 
against one of their oldest rivals 
would bode well for the coming 
weekend series on the road 
against the Seton Hall Pirates. 
"We're playing three of the tougher teams in the conference coming up," said Perconte. "We just want to continue playing well right now." 
Against Michigan, the home­
run-hitting derby should contin­
ue, as Ust and Wagner vie for 
sole possession of the team lead, 
which is tied at 12. 
~. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 21, 1998 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
Williams and Brown lead team in weeker1d meets 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field team made the most of its opportunity to take on fierce competition in the Mt. Sac Relays and at a meet at Pomona Collegn last weekend, getting strong performances from many Irish runners. · 
Mike Brown, a junior pole vaulter, took fourth in both meets. lie vaulted 16'9" at Pomona and 17'0" at Mt. Sac. 
"I think there were several really good performances this weekend. Everybody did well," said Brown. "Personally, I thought I could have done a lot better, but it was a gn•at oppor­tunity to compete against the 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Hunning Club ­There's no reason to run alone! Come join us at 4:30 
p.m. each day in front of the Fr. Sol'in stutuP and benefit from a good workout and running companions. All level runners are welcome but you must be a girl! Cal Rene at x2849 or Ashley at x1211 with questions. We are cur­rently looking for a faculty advisor . 
best vaulters in the nation." 
Senior Errol Williams, a cap­tain and indoor all-American, won in the 110-meter high hur­dles at Pomona College Friday and took third in the highly competitive Mt. Sac Relays on Sunday. 
Both of these times were bet­ter than the NCAA provisional qualifying times, but fell short of his personal record. 
All-American Jason Rexing placed sixth at Mt. Sac in the 5,000 meter run. His time of 
14:02.18 was not only a person­al best, but a NCAA provisional qualifying time. 
Also at Mt. Sac, Jennifer Engelhardt jumped 5'8" to earn fourth place in the high jump and Berit Junker ran the 400 
Drop-In Volleyball -RecSports will be sponsoring volleyball every Wednesday and Friday from 8-11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
Drop-In Badminton -RecSports will be sponsoring every Friday from 7-10 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for the rest of the semester. 
• Llff(jUARO~ ~ffOfO • 
• 
RecSports is currently taking • • applications for summer • • lifeguards at St. Joes Beach. • 
Current Lifeguarding, First Aid, • and Professional Rescuer CPR • • Certifications are required. • 
• Applications can be picked up • at the RecSports Office in the • 
•
• Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. : 
B R U N 0 :'-S· 
P I Z Z A N 0 R ·T H 
Hours: 
Delivery 
'Till 1 AM Sun­
273-3890 

Thurs Lunch and Regular 
'Till 2 AM Fri Hours and Sat Lunch 11-2 
2 14" pizzas with one topping for $10.50 
CALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATIONS 
288-3320 
273-3890 
IISTILL THE BEST" 
meter hurdles in 60 seconds who earned third and fourth ty well. and Mt. Sac also went flat. places, respectively, and well considering the level of 
Top performances at Pomona Engelhardt. who leaped 5'7" for competition," said track and came by 800-meter runners fifth place in the high jump. field coach Joe Piane. Tim Kober and Phil Mishka, "I thought Pomona went pret-

Memorial Service 1n Celebration of the Life of 
Dr. Erskine A. Peters 
Wednesday April22, 199E; 3:00p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Tuesday, April21, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Powlus 
continued from page 20 
speak for his ability. Powlus holds virtually every Notre Dame passing record and fin­ished last season with a career­best 61 percent pass completion rate. 
"I heard several weeks ago that he may not get drafted," Davie said. "I figured with the amount of big games he's played and really with what he's accomplished at Notre Dame and maintaining through difficult times that [would have made him] attractive to some NFL teams." 

But it's not statistics or proba­bility that will make Powlus an NFL standout. According to Davie, Powlus will succeed not despite his hardships at Notre Dame, but because of them. 
"I know he's been through a lot here," Davie said. "His expe­riences will help him at the next level. He's experienced things a lot of these other college quar-

The NDMIS club is having its final 
meeting of the year!! We need to 
elect commissioners for next year!! Sophomores: come meet your 
fellow MIS majors!! 

When: TONIGHT April 21 @6:00 
Where: COBA Lounge (basement next to the computer lab) 
Food: Papa John's and Pop!! 
terbacks haven't." 
bne thing Powlus may have going for him in the profession­al ranks actually could be the lack of expectation surrounding hitn. 
Heading into Notre Dame, Powlus was submerged in pre­diCtions of Heisman trophies arid national championships. At least for now, he does not have to 1 worry about the anticipation of Super Bowl rings and MVP titles. 
But knowing about those pr~ssures may give Powlus an added edge in crowded stadi­ums and Monday Night Football situations. 
'Tennessee got a steal as far as I'm concerned," said senior fl~nker Bobby Brown. "I think he~ll make a great career in the NFL." 
Although Davie admitted to having limited knowledge on the subject, he stated that he· thought Powlus was met with more than one offer as a free agent. 
"I haven't talked to him yet but I've talked to the other guys and I guess he had several options," Davie said. 
The Oilers finished third in their division last season after a start that should sound familiar to Powlus. Beginning the season 1-4, Tennessee rallied to finish 8-8, although they did not make the playoffs. 
Powlus could not be reached for comment. 
Like Powlus' collegiate career and the draft, speculations on what Powlus' life in the pros will be like cannot be easily summed up. 
"I don't know how he stacks up in ability [for the NFL]." Davie said. "But based on my experiences with Ron ... he'ri work tremendously hard to please the coaches. But I know as far as intangible things, I wouldn't bet against him." 
Anthony Bianco contributed to this article. 
* The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

Lax 
continued from page 20 
Megan Hallock could stop the onslaught of goals that Jasmine Mathew had let in. Gannon ral­lied around Hallock and kept the Irish scoreless for six min­utes while Reynolds tacked on two more goals. Notre Dame made sure the Golden Knights' comeback was short lived and kept Gannon's attackers away from freshman goaltender Carrie Marshall. As the halftime horn sounded, the Irish owned a 12-goal lead courtesy of a 16-4 score. 
The second half saw the game tighten up as more of the regulars were taken out and replaced by substitutes. As a result, both teams traded goals, and when the clock ran out Notre Dame stood on the field victorious by the score of 20-10. 
Calabrese finished the game with a total of seven goals and one assist. The seven goals set a single-game scoring mark for Notre Dame besting Callahan's six, which she scored last year against Stanford. The goals also placed her as the leading goal scorer on the team with 29, an average of 2.6 per game. 
"Shot placement was key for me today," stated Calabrese, "I took a few extra seconds before I shot the ball and looked for the openings." 
Playing in their last games at Moose Krause Stadium, senior Mara Grace had two goals and one assist, while senior Holly Michael had one goal. 
"We wanted to make the seniors last home game special. and the two records and the win accomplished that," said Doyle and Calabrese. 
~ 

James Bond Video Game Contest:: 3Pm-4Pm in LaFun Huddle! ~ 
~ 
Scaveneer Hunt fteams of 2J ::: ~ 4Pm-6Pm at Fieldhouse Mall ~ 
~ 
CamPus Band Concert~ 4Pm-7Pm at Fieldhouse Mall fH 
~ 
Sineled Out with JennY! ~ Oust kiddine she's not comineJ iij -· but...7:30Pm in the LaFun Ballroom ~ show uP to reeister at 6:45Pm ~ 
-·
-· 
Back to the Future!!! ~ Pla~ine at 8Pm in Cushine Aud. ~ 
... 
.. 
-~ ~ ­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April21, 1998 
squads in the Blue-Gold game.
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 
"We started working with the
Irish 

snappers and holders this week, so the timing is a little different." 
continued from page 20 

Senior Hunter Smith is return­ing for his fourth year as the
Top teams advance with ease 
Alliance bowl. 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Editor 
Sometimes persistence pays 

ofT. 
Hallying seems to be the strength of some teams as the amount of.Bookstore opponents dwindles to 64. 
Perhaps in one of the best games in yesterday's action, Doctor Teeth and the Electric Mayhem outlasted a fiesty Penetration in a grueling battle. Tempers f'lared as the game progressed and the lead changed hands numerous times. 
"We carne out and played hard." Doctor Teeth's Jerry Barca said. 
The game turned into a saga with the second half being marred by fouls. Foul-calling by Penetration slowPd the game's tempo. In the end, the experi­ence of Doetor Teeth came from behind to capture a spot in the round of64. 
Doetor Teeth rallied from a 20-17 deficit to clinch a spot in the round of 64. Cosmo Lubker gave the team the win as he poured in the final two buckets. 
Up next for the group is the lOth-ranked team of So Solid, led by senior Nick Wills. 
"I have a lot of respect lor So Solid." Barca said. "Let the truth be known that if I get an opportunity in thn post, they better double, if not triple team me." 
Wills saw action for the Irish this past season and now leads a talented group in Bookstore. So Solid's height and speed boosted them past Cold Turkey. Wills and Co. barely allowed Cold Turkey a chance to get on the board as they coasted to victory, 21-2. 
Deke Cooppr's Soldiers barely escaped Cereal Thrillaz. The No. 20 Soldiers led at half, 11-8. Cereal sull'ered a set-back when Tony Conlin broke his ankle and the team was forced to play a man down. Soldiers led 12­10. 
Cereal's R.C. Deer poured in 15 points and· brought his team close, but Cooper and Co. walked away victorious, 22-20. 
Team 591, led by juniors Dennis Carroll and Jimmy Dolan, defeated C.II.O. Deters, 21-8. Carroll highlighted his team's ability by wowing the crowd with dunks. Carroll, a current member of the Irish tnnnis team and former mem­ber of the basketball team, reaked havoc from the outside and inside for Team 591. Team 591's Dolan complemented his 
.. teammate's play with his fade­aways and layups. In the end, Team 591's height advantage appeared to be too much for 
C.H.O. Deters. 
"It is really a great time, espe­dally when you gnt a bunch of your friends out there watch­ing," Carroll, a first year com­petitor said. 
While a majority of the teams pride themselves on keeping up with those remaining and those who have been upset, Team 591 doesn't. 
"We just go out there and play," Carroll said. "I don't know who we are playing in the next round and that is the best part of Bookstore. We are just going to try and outrebouded our opponent and get them on the fast break." 
No. 13 Next did not advance into the round of 64. They lost 21-17. 
In Memory of McConn and Burn 'N Shoot handled their challengers with relative ease. 

Last year, Sanson was only one for four against the Trojans, including misses from 33, 34 and 45 yards out, in a game the Irish lost 20-17. Following the loss, Scott Cengia took over the field goal kicking duties for the remainder of the season. 
"USC has had my number the past two years, but I've grown a lot since then," Sanson said. "It's been a learning process and so far this season, I've felt a lot more comfortable. Up until my injury, I was having a good spring." 
The 5-foot-9 kicker has been working on his consistency and strengthening his leg, but his injury has given inexperienced junior Kevin McDonnell a chance to shine. 
In 1996, McDonnell split the uprights twice against Hutgers and added another field goal against Pittsburgh, but he did not see much action last season. 
''I've been working on my accuracy and timing," said McDonnell, who will assume the kicking responsibilities for both punter and has even taken on an additional role. 

''I've also been working on kickofl's for the first time since high school," said Smith. "But as far as punting goes, I'm just basically trying to work on improving on what I did last y~ar .~nd becoming more efli­ctent. 
Smith's 41-yard career aver­age places him second in Notre Dame history, and Smith has quickly become one of the best punters in the nation, making him a contender for all­American honors this season. Last year, he was forced to do pooch punting due to a stagnant Irish offense once they crossed the 50, but Smith still boasted a 42.6-yard average. 
The Irish kickers will be out to prove themselves this season and erase all doubt that has sur­rounded thmn in recent years. Throw AP all-state meruit David Miller into the mix and the 1998 season's kicking game looks to be much improved as the season progresses. 
The Observer/Melissa Weber 


You've hit the books. Now it's time to hit the road. Ford can he1lp. College seniors and grad students get $400 cash back* toward the purchasH or Ford Credit Red Carpet Lease of any eligible Ford or Mercury. It's academic: pocket the cash grab life by the wheel. For more College Graduate Purchase· Program info, ' c:all1-800-321-1536 or visit the Web at www.ford.com 


'To be eligible, you must graduate with an associate's or bachelor's degree between to/1/96 and 1/5199 or be currently enrolled in raduate school You must purchase or lease your new vehtcle between 1/4/98 and 1/5199. Some customer and vehicle eligibility restrictions apply. See y~ur dealer tor details. 
-------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, April21, 1998 Thd Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

DILBERT 
AT TI-\'E  AIRPORT  I'LL CH~NGE. f"\Y  SEI\T  FLIGHTS  CAN  BE  
HEY,  DILBERT f  ASSIGNMENT  SO  WE  LONG IF '<OU DON'T  
WE. /"\U5T {)[  CI\N  TA.LK  fOR  
SIX HOUR':J.  

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aquarius -Happiness in love and joy through creative interest and hob­bies are today's high lights. Don't let money concerns cloud what should be a very pleasant day. 
Pisces -Eloquent in speech and persuasive in manner, you've got every­thing going for you today. A small problem may occur at home base, but you will solve it quickly and correctly. 
Aries -Confidential backing puts you a step closer to reaching an important goal. The night favors studying and writ­ing. 
Taurus -The day focuses your attention on matters pertaining to long-range financial secu­rity. This is a good time to plan an investment strategy or to begin a sav­ings program. 
Gemini -Activities based at home are likely to be more fun than social entertainment. Go easy with credit use and avoid money disputes. 
Cancer -Lovely heart to heart talks are possible all day. Some couples will EUGENIA LAST 

be going all the way. A fabulous day! Enjoy it. 
Leo -Love ties grow stronger and hotter! An old debt may have to be paid back now--so do it without hesitation. 
Virgo -This is a five star day for career mat­ters. Recognition of you work or a new assignment comes to you. Talks with a boss bring happy results. 
Libra -You won't appreciate it when some­one interrupts you in the middle of a conversation today. However, partners are supportive. You'll have fun now. 
Scorpio -Focus on ways to improve your financial situation. Tonight finds you witty and talkative, but others seem quiet. 
Sagittarius -You real­ize today that in order to get anywhere in life, you have to be true to your own self. It is time now for you to do your own thing. 
Capricorn -If shop­ping, avoid getting obsessed about an item. Travel, activities with chil­dren, dating and creative work are all positively accented today. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Scholars' 56 14th-century money literary classic, 
1 Convent attire 33 Sideways look with "The" 
&-mater 
59 Choir voice 
34--la-la

10 Over, in Bonn 
60 French river or 14 Big name in department 35 Eden-to-Nod 
directionmicrowaves 

61 William Morris 15Anon employee 36 Dancer 
Chari sse 16 It borders the 62 Radar point 
37 Recipechancel direction 63 Small fry 17 Wasserstein's 38 Blast maker 64 Jai alai basket 1989 Pulitzer 
39 Together,drama winner, musically

with "The" DOWN
41 "Ain't That-" 20-spumante 
43 1984 film based 1 "Veryfunny!" 21 Boon on a Fuller play 2The­22 Volunteer 46 Says further Brothers (40's-50's
23 Stare stupidly 47 Russian despot group)
25 Small: Suffix 48 Sugar or flour, e.g. 
3 Night crawlers, 
26 Three-part Galsworthy 51 Ewe's call e.g. 4 Penniless 
opus 52 "Bye-bye" 5Mai­(cocktail) 6 More pallid 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Surprised cry 8-juice (milk) 9 Actress 
29 Perfume 44 Computer for a 53 Tavern potables Bening ingredient commuter 54 Bivouac10 Vanya and 30 Not clean 45 Long looks shelter

Remus, e.g. 31 Bern's river 48 Strikebreaker 55 Hammett11 Island near Java 49 Seven-foot, e.g. Schnauzer
32"1Stiii­

12 Holiday cusps 50 Voting no 57 Publicity info Thrill" (1930 hit) 51 Statuary item 58 Tic---toe
36 Pool needs 18 Mafia V.I.P.'s 
37 Deficit 
19 Bury 39 Nonplus Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
40 French 
are avc1ilable by touch-tone phone: 

25 Observed philosopher 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Denis 
Annualj subscriptions are available for the 41 Test, as ore 

best ofiSunday crosswords from the last 28 More cunning 42 RR stop 50 yea~s: (800) 762-1665. 




Wanted: Reporters, 
-
photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
10 ~asons to 6e Pliysica([y jlctive rr'oday 
ntrenn management helps preuent osteoporosis
... ;;;!Iii, 

improved immune system fUQ,¥tioning , . ?,~ptzotJes sel~-esteem 
-
helps eontrol hypertension, .
·%;, 

tzeduces 'lisk ot disease improves quality ofsleep 
bOOStS Creativity . for more Info. Contact: 
WIEIIGHIT MANAGMIENT decreases appetttew!:.~~=u);:~~~rt 
.... SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, April 21, 1998 
• fOOTBALl 

Tennessee Oilers sign Powlus as free agent QB 
By M. SHANNON RYAN the big names. 
Saint Mary's Editor "From what I've heard. he's excited about the numbers and With a rollngiatn earner as who they had at quarterback unpwdictabln and discouraging that attracted him," Irish head 
as Bon l'owlus' at Notrn Damn. roach Rob Davie said. 
it snPmPd fitting that his intro­Although many have called 
duction into the National Powlus' time in Notre Dame 
Football I.Pagun was a sort of Stadium a fizzle, his former 
speond-ratP weleome. football entourage was dis­
Aftnr bning passPd over in the mayed when nine other quar­wPekPnd's sPvnn-round draft. tPrbaeks were nabbed in plaee Powlus was picked up as a free of Pow) us in the draft. agnnt yPsterday by the "It was pretty surprising to Tnnnnssec Oilers. lie will join me," Jarious Jackson said of 19-ynar wtnran Dave Krieg and the quarterback he stood third-year pro James Hitehcy in bt~hind for three years. "But I the backup pool for starting think Bon is a great competitor. quarterbark Steve McNair. Heasons why he wasn't pieked? 
Powlus will accompany only I have no clue." two 1997 teammates into the The puzzle-solver may lie in pros: AllPn Hossum, who went the win-loss column. Under to the Philadelphia Eagles in Powlus' reign last season. the the third round of the draft Irish barely managed to regis­Saturday and Mike Doughty ter a winning record, scraping who was also picked up as a by at 7-6. In Pow Ius' term as a frne agent. signed by the starter, the Irish bumbled Cineinnati Bnngals. through a 30-17 four-year trial. 
Barking up MeNair and prob­Still, many were puzzled that ably Krieg, l'owlus will receive his individual stats did not the attention of playing behind 
see POWLUS/ page 17 

Irish kickers look to amend past inconsistency 
By BRIAN KESSLER the starting job," said Sanson. "I Sanson comwcted on 15 out of Assistant Sports Editor have confidence in myself but I 16 extra points and on livP of I 0 have to prove to everyone else liPid goal attempts. 
In recent seasons, the kicking that I can get the job done." The highlight of his collc~ge game has been a big question Sanson will have to wait to earm~r came as a freshman, when mark for the Notre Dame football prove himself since he will be he nailed a game-winning :N-yard team. sidelined for the remainder of field goal to lmtd the Irish to victo­
Aside from Mr. Consistency, spr·ing praetice due to a torn ry over sixth-rank!~d Texas. In Hunter "the Punter" Smith, incon­quadricep muscle he suiTered dur­tl1at same year, he converted 39 sistency has plagued Irish kickers ing practice. out of 45 PATs and comwcted on and even routine extra points "Basically I was just kicking too six field goals in nirw tries. have become an adventure. But much," said Sanson, who will be Despite several impressive experience may be the deciding out 4-5 weeks and will not start games, Sanson has lacked consis­factor in returning the kicking kicking again until summer tency in his two years at Notrn game to the level Craig llentrich school. "It was sore, but I kept Dame and has had to fare adver­established in the early '90s. kicking and found out that it was sity, most of it stemming from his 
With the graduation of Scott torn last Wednesday." two performanees against USC. Cengia and the injury-induced Sanson will be healthy for next As a freshman, Sanson missed retirement of junior Kevin Kopka, season and brings two years of an extra point whieh would have the kicking duties for the Irish will experience after playing a key knpt the Trojans out of the game apparently fall to sophomore Jim role in the '96 and '97 campaigns. and would have put the Irish in an Sanson. But he is not content with As a sophomore, he made 7 4 spe­Alliance bowl. just being handed the job. cial teams appearances and han­
"I have to go out there and earn dled kickoffs all season. see IRISH I page I 8 
-



-
., 
-
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Calabrese sets school record 
By GENE BRTALIK Sports Writrr 
Sunday at Moose Krause Stadium was senior day for the women's lacrosse team (7 -4 ), but it was the frnshmen who shone brightly. 
In a ram women's and men's lacrosst) doubleheader, the women took the field at 11 a.m. and defeated the Gannon Golden Knights by a score of 20­
10. 
The 20 goals set a record, besting tlw 19 goals they scored against Denver earlier this year. Gannon came into the game 7­
1. but was no match for Notre Dame's (7-4) quick transition game resulting in many fast breaks. 
"This was a big win for us since we haven't played in a while" said freshman Maura Doyle. "Also, we wanted to win the last game on our home turf." 
Al'ter Notre Dame won the draw on the opening face-off, junior co-captain Kerry Callahan found freshman Courtney Calabrese cutting to the goal to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
Less than a minute later, the tnam from Pennsylvania tied the seore with a goal from Stacey Reynolds. The teams struggled for position the next two min­utes until Calabrese shrugged off a couple of defenders and put in her second goal of the contest at the 26:49 mark. From that point on, the Irish went on a 14-3 run to close out the half lilled with four more goals by Calabrese, three by freshman Lael O'Shaughnessy and two by both Callahan and junior Stephanie Fox. 
With the score 10-2 only 15 minutes into the game, the Golden Knights swapped their goaltenders in a hope that 
see lAX I page 1 7 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Junior Stephanie Fox, shown here against Duquesne, contributed two goals in the first half of thEl Gannon win. 

vs. Michigan ar Comsrock Park )! ar Big East Championships ~: Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
Friday, TBA 

aJ • VVomen's golf places first at Harvard 
~ 
vs. Indiana Saturday, I p.m. 

Tuesday, 3:30p.m. see page 14
J! .'-=..... 
at Toledo (DH) Tennis at Kalmazoo Col. 

StN CI:J •Ultimate Frisbee captures Sectionals 
'!w 
Thursday, 3 p.m. 

'~ Tuesday, 3 p.m. see page 12 ar Columbia Softball at Albion College 
St~ ~
wjJ 
Friday, 3 p.m. ,,~ Tuesday, 3:30p.m. 




