
Wednesday, March 18, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 108 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY' 

University reports investigation to r~CAA 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Editor 
Today or tomorrow University athletic director Michael Wadsworth will releasn to the NCAA a report about his recent investigation into gifts from a South Bend woman to seven former Notre Dame football players and five current players. 
According to the report, the players were not in any viola­tion of NCAA regulations through their association with Kimberly Dunbar, who South Bend police are investigating for embezzling nearly $750,000 from her job at Dominiack Mechanical Inc., in South Bend. 
"We were contacted by someone with knowledge of the case," said Dennis Moore, director of public relations for the University. The athletic department then began inves­tigating connections between Dunbar and members of the football team on Feb. 23. 

··According to a press release from Notre Dame Public Relations released on March 6, the report finds that "The woman's apparent connection with Notre Dame or its athletic interests was as a member since 1995 of the Quarterback Club, a football fan organiza­tion open to any member of the public paying a $25 annual fee. 
"The only benefit of club membership is the right to 
purchase tickets to Friday lun­cheons preceding home foot­ball games," it continues. "The woman has no other current or previous connection with the University or its athletic inter­ests." 
The twelve players involved reportedly received gifts of jewelry and clothing from Dunbar, who has a daughter with former Irish safety Jarvis Edison. She also reportedly took some of the players to Chicago Bulls games. 

After the NCAA receives the report, they must decide what, if any action to take in further investigation of the matter. 
"It is really entirely out of our hands," Moore said. "It's entirely up to someone at the NCAA as to what to do with the report afwr they receive it." 
Wadsworth is out of his office until Monday and could not be reached for comment. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

Film symposium deals with issues of the Holocaust 
By ERICA THESING News Writer 
Hecognizing the incrnased usn of film and televi­sion in modprn education. the Notre Dame llolocaust Project is sponsoring a film symposium and teacher's workshop this weekend at the Snite Museum. 
Tlw four films, each dealing with an aspect of the llolocaust. begin Thursday evening and run through Saturday evening. The teacher's work­shop, scheduled for Saturday and Sunday, invites local junior high and high school instructors to examine resources for llolocaust education. 
Tlwre is a current debate among scholars regarding the use of video in education and the llol()(~aust Project wanted to stage this debate at Notn· Dame. according to Professor John Welle, organizPr of the symposium and workshops. 
"Thin-e's a lot of discussion about using films to teach history," Welle said. "Our images of history are very important for deciding what we do next. Our decisions for thn future are based on what we JWrceive the past to have been. It's important that we becOITI!~ sophisticated consumers of audio visu­al material." 
WPII!~ desigrwd the format of the symposium and workshop to target a eombination of scholars and loeal tnadwrs. 
"Wp wanted to provide stimulation for local teachers and Notre Dame students, some of whom arn pn~paring to become teachers," he said. "The 
see FILM I page 6 


The Vatican makes 'an a•~t of repentance' for the Holo<~aust 
By LAURA PETELLE 
Assistant News Editor 

The Vatican issued a document yesterday entitled "We Remember: A Reflection on the Shoah [Holocaust]." The statement is the product of 11 years of work by a committee headed by Edward Idris Cardinal Cassidy, the head of the Vatican Commission on Religious Relations with the Jews. 
In his cover letter. Pope John Paul II said that he hoped that the document would "help to heal the wounds of past misunderstanding and injustices." 
The document, which calls itself "an act of repentance" neverthe­less skirts the painful issue of the Vatican's silence about Nazi atroci­ties during World War II. It also ignores the accusations leveled against Pope Pius XII, choosing to 

'THIS DOCUMENT IS TOO SUBTLE, TOO RESTRAINED IN ITS LANGUAGE, TOO CARE­RJL. THERE SHOULD BE A LllTLE MORE "MEA CULPA" IN IT.' 
FATHER RICHARD MCBRIEN 
'ITHINK THE STATEMENT IS AN IMPORTANT TEACHING STATEMENT. IT BRINGS THE HOLOCAUST AND ANTI-SEMITISM ON TO THE CATHOLIC RADAR SCOPE.' 
RABBI MICHAEL SIGNER 


focus on his role in rescuing Jews 
instead. "It's much too restrained; it did 
not go far enough," said Father Richard McBrien, professor of the­ology. "I think in comparison with the statements released by the French and German bishops earlier, this docu­ment is much to restrained." "If the Jews aren't all that impressed with the document, then obviously there's something

The Pontificate of John Paul II has been marked by efforts wrong with it. at reconciliation with various estranged groups. 
We've been at this a long time, and I think the Jewish community has expected a much stronger state­ment than this," he continued. 
"I think the statement is an important teaching statement," said Rabbi Michael Signer, profes­sor of theology and co-director of the Notre Dame Holocaust Project. 
"It brings the Holocaust and anti­Semitism onto the Catholic radar scope. And that. already, is an enormous advancement. Until now, the only person who's discussed this has been the Pope himself, but this is now a teaching document for the whole Church." 
The principal editor of the Vatican's statement on the Holocaust, Father Hemi Boeckman, will be the closing speaker at the 
see VATICAN I page 4 


Saint Mary's magazines to publish bi-annually 
By P.COLLEEN NUGENT 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
For the first time this year. both of Saint Mary's student arts publications will release two issues during the school year. 
Chimes, headed by Professor Max Westlcr and The Avenue, headed by English Professor Ted Billy arc the two publica­tions. Both of these works are edited by senior Shannon Crunk. 
Crunk has been involved 
1950's, since her sophomore year. Last year, she acted as one of the magazine's three editors. This is her second year of involvement with The Avenue, which was created several years ago due to a stu­dent initiated movement. 
The magazines have been published on a yearly basis. However, this year, the goals of these two committees have taken a slight change. Now students, faculty members, and alumni will be receiving copies of these magazines two zine, contains written works of fiction, poetry, and short sto­ries. These are written by alumnae, faculty members, students, and individuals from the community. There is a deep emphasis on student par­ticipation, because it is a mag­


"We are looking for creawve and imaginative works of art such as poetry and short fic­tion writings that can be pub­lished," Westler, associate professor of the English department said. 
Art featured in the Chimes magazine is represented in many different forms. Photography, sculpture, draw­ings, painting, as well as sketches are some examples of previous works that have been showcased in this magazine. For the most part, any kind of 

"Although we try to keep most of the space for students, we are open to all for submis­sions," Crunk stated. "Any stu­dents of all majors and classes are welcomed to submit their writing and works of art." 
For the first time this year, Chimes will award two honor­able mentions. The awards will be given to the best writ­ten piece of fiction and poetry, as decided by the boar<;!. 
"Once all the submissions have been turned in, the edito­rial board will decide which 
with Chimes, a magazine that times each year. azine created for the student art is welcomed as a submis­two pieces of writing were the has been around since the Chimes, the literary maga-body. sion. 
see ART I page 6 


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Sisters 

Louisiana preparing to change state drinking laws 
I dedieate this to my P. Colleen Nugent
sisters Kate Shean 
Saint Mary's News Editor
(SMC '95) and Bridget. 
My whole life, I have 
grown up knowing them, living with them, 
loving them and hating them. 
The best part of this is the simple fact that 
through the years, we have managed to final­
ly come together and look at each other with 
feelings of trust, loyalty, respect and love. 
I am the second eldest of four children ­
all of whom are complete opposites, at least 
physically. Did I mention that we all have 
dill'erent colors of hair? We used to joke 
about being adopted. As the second oldest, I 
have grown accustomed to the "Jan Brady" 
syndrome. I was never cool enough to hang 
out with or borrow the clothes of my older 
sister Katt\, and NEVEH EVER wanted to 
have Bridget. who is one and a half years 
younger than myself, to be included with me 
and my friends. 
My poor baby brother had to put up with 
three sisters! 
The whole situation is kind of funny to me 
as I am now able to look back at it from an 
older perspective. 
My parents always dressed us alike, which 
I am sure many of you can relate to, and 
expected us to be the best of friends. 
Throughout our childhood we had fights 
and promised to give each other the silent 
treatment forever. 
Bridget and I even had occasions when we 
would place tape across the floor of our bed­
room to mark off our personal "boundaries." 
Then there was the occasion when we were 
placed in separate bedrooms to try to keep 
some typt\ of sanity in our house. 
Last summer, the true meaning of friend­
ship and sisterhood in my family was put to 
the test. Kate was getting married in August, 
and Bridget and I were both asked to be her 
MAIDS of honor. 
(Yep, the both of us.) 
At first I thought the idea was crazy, but 
ewmtually this entire experience helped to 
stnmgthcn the bonds between the three of 
us ... espndally with mH and Bt·idget. 
There were times when we naturally want­
ed to kill each other. but all in all. we were 
all able to form a bond of true sisterly friend­
ship. I know that we will grow to always 
treasure this special gift. 
The true test came becausH we were con­
stantly with each other. Because of this, Kate, 
Bridget and I have grown much closer. WH 
are now able to relate to each other on a 
more realistic, sensitive, adult-like, and per­
sonal level. 
I am so thankful that I have been blessed to 
be put in a family like mine. I have a wonder­
ful brother-in-law, two beautiful sisters, the 
most caring younger brother, and two very 
loving parents who would give the world for 
any of their children. 
To think that I would have ever wanted my 
family life differently has definitely beeome a 
thing of the past. 
Although life may get kind of crazy and 
hectic at times, allow yourself to take the 
time to tell your sisters and bmthers how 
much they really mean to you. Life goes too 
fast to ever say how much you really love 
them in enough ways. 
Here is a saying that I have forever cher­
isht!d, and wish to share with all of you: 
Chance made us sisters, 
Hearts made us friends. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• 
• TooAY's STAFF 
News Lab Tech Laura Petelle Kevin Dalum Colleen McCarthy Graphics Erica Thesing 
Jon King 
Sports Production 
Brian Kessler Dan Cichalski 
Viewpoint 
Tara Churik 


The Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction righrs arc reserved. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 18. Lines separate high temperatl.ire zones for the day. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealherdb forecast for day\ime comlitions and high temper.:tturcs 
r..--..----·;............ __ H 
L 


Wednesdav4.. 52 35 Thursday Q.. 45 35 Friday 42 33
~ 
FRONTS: 
"T"'T" ............... ~


Saturday 1!:1 35 25 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1998 AccuWealher. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L


Sund~y -~) 36 24 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
,(5'-''J . '···/' ,,,,J 
Atlanta 65 52 Key West 81 72 St. Louis 57 49 Boston 45 29 Milwaukee 35 33 Seattle 60 39 Chicago 49 39 Palmyra 45 34 Tampa 80 64
q,~..~q~Qi1~u 
Showers T-storms Ram Aumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 70 50 Pittsburgh 48 36 Tucson 75 46 
V1a Assocta/sd Press GraphicsNot 
Honolulu 83 68 Reno 64 30 Wichita 45 37 
BATON HOUGE, La. 
Louisiana's top legal authority told students that the upcoming legislative session, scheduled for the end of this month. will mark the end of 18-20 year olds being able to enter bars and purchase alcohol. 
In a speech held Monday in the Union Colonnade Theater, Hiehard leyoub, Louisiana's attorney general, said the Governor's Task Foree on DWVVehicular Homicide's legislative proposal hammered out last week is almost certain to pass. 
"In the special session we hope to close that loophole. That's going to end very shortly." said Hiehard leyoub, state attorney general. "I think we have to do something about the law right now, with the gaping loophole. It is virtually impossible to enforce the law." 
The attorney general's comments caused a buzz of disapproval and 
raised questions from many of the students in attendance. One of those students was Curt Easley, a member of the Society for Equal Citizenship, a group formed to protest the changes in age requirements for state drinking laws. 
"Why do they need to enforce that? Eighteen to 20 year olds arc going to drink anyway. Do you want them drinking in a bar, or out driving around, or on a street corner?" Easley said. 
Ieyoub said the state's motivation for strengthening thn existing drink­ing laws, whleh will prohibit anyone under 21 from buying or possessing alcohol, is to save lives. lie pointt~d out alcohol related crashes are the number one eausn of' death among 16-24 year olds. 
"Young people are more vulnerable to the toxic efl'eets of' aleohol bncaust! of lesser developed body systems. It can have a grnater dfeet on you," leyoub said. 
Answering concerns from thn crowd, Ieyoub said the proposed law would still allow people under 21 years of' age to work in restaurants or bars where aleohol is served. lie also elarified the delinition of a bar as an establishment making 50 percent of sales from aleohol sales. 
"I don't think there's any problem if their major business is to serve food. But there are rules that the main business must be food," leyoub said. 

• McGILL UNIVERSITY 
Party sends two students to hospital 
MONTREAL, Quebec 
At least two students were sent to the hospital for alcohol 
poisoning after the Freshman Undergraduate Science 
Society hosted a cheaply priced party called "Overflow" in 
the Shatner building on March 7. The FUSS decided to 
throw the bash for freshman science students after finding 
that the society was going to have a significant amount of 
money left over at the end of the semester. "Breaking even 
was not a top priority," said Dan Shiff, vice president of 
finance for FUSS. The party had a budget of $5,500 and 
offered very attractive prices: two dollars admission for sci­
ence students, three dollars for non-science students. Drink 
prices were 50 cents for tequila shots and vodka shooters. 
Beer sold for a dollar. "Overall. I had a good time," said 
Mike Fraser, a freshman science student who was at the 
party. But things started to go wrong part way through the 
evening when a couple of students were found severely 
intoxicated, while others were more than well on their way. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA-BERKELY 
Police arrest student for pulling gun 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

In what police describe as a "rare" case, a UC Berkeley 
student was arrested Saturday for allegedly pulling a gun on 
an Oakland man in an attempted robbery on Telegraph 
Avenue. UC police took into custody Arnold Chandler, 22, on 
charges of trying to rob 35-year-old Oakland resident Hoyal 
Anderson, and possession of a concealed, loaded semiauto­
matic handgun. Poliee said that Anderson was walking 
south on Telegraph Avenue shortly before 3 a.m. when he 
saw Chandler walking in the same direction on the opposite 
side of the street. Anderson told police that Chandler yelled 
from across the street, asking if he had marijuana. 
Anderson, who did not have any drugs in his possession, 
then crossed the street to talk with Chandler. According to 
police, Anderson said that after he crossed the street 
the suspect revealed a nine-millimeter. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS-ARLINGTON 
Prof says asteroid will pass earth 
AHLJNGTON. Texas 

Asteroid 1997 XF 11 is heading for home. Aetually, our 
home. The pass by the asteroid is believed to be the closest 
in the last 50 years, according to a NASA pn~ss release 
Thursday. Experts previously estimated that the asteroid 
would pass very dose to earth. but now say it will probably 
not come closer than 600,000 miles, according to calcula­
tions by scientists at NASA's jet propulsion laboratory. "It 
looks like it will miss us and most likely pass closer to the 
moon," said Dr. James Gelb, adviser of Olympus Mons, the 
university astronomy club. He said the estimations have a 
high margin of error. "You have to know the exact dis­
tance, speed and direction to an incredible aceuraey," he 
said and gave the example of a billiard ball. Imagine trying 
to shoot a billiard ball. If one knew the spned, direetion 
and distance it was going to go, the outeomn would be per­
fect, he explained. But if caleulations are oil' just a little, 
the outcome is totally dill'erent. 
• UNIVERSITY OF flORIDA 
Student dies after being hit by van 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

"She said, 'I can't wait to be 25, to be 30 or 45 because I 
ean't wait to find out what my life will be like,'" said Letitia 
Hays, a Santa Fe Community College freshman who was 
Gibson's roommate. Gibson, a 24-year-old business senior, 
died Friday following a March 6 accident whero shH was 
hit by a van on University Avenue. She had planned to 
graduate at the end of the summer and lind a job in the 
advertising industry. She had interviewed in Atlanta and 
was looking at the possibility of working with an unclt! in 
Chicago. "It was an achievement that she was going to 
graduate,'' said her father Bill Gibson. "She was outgoing, 
vivacious and full of life." Gibson was hit by a van driven 
by Waldo resident Frank Smith, 21, after she stepped off' 
the sidewalk near the 200 block of West University 
Avenue. 
---r 

Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Peterson: Progressive movement changed <~ulture 
By ALEX ORR 
News Writer 
Progressive Catholicism in El Salvador has failed to affect structural reforms within the Church itself. but has been instrumental in shaping cur­rent cultural and political movements in the Central Amnrican nation. 
That was the thesis put for­ward by Anna Peterson last night in her lecture entitled "Progressivn Catholicism in El Salvador During the Civil War and Today." 
The lecture, sponsored by the Latin American/North American Church Concerns 
and the Department of Theology of Notre Dame, out­lined the role of the Progressive Catholic movement in Central America in general, and the influence of Oscar Romero and the movement within El Salvador in particu­lar. 
"Progressive Catholicism took root in Latin America in the years following Vatican II when bishops, priests and nuns throughout the region began sponsoring small-scale projects designed to increase lay people's knowledge of the church," Peterson said. "And while El Salvador has never been a very open society, the late 1960s and early '70s offered a period of relative freedom for the growth of reform movements in both the religious and the political spheres." 

These projects began with a largely religious focus, but soon shifted concerns toward the social situation of rural peasants. This posed certain difficulties for the program. 
"Some remained focused on prayer and Bible study, while others became involved in social action projects, and some, such as those in El Salvador, moved into national politics," detailed Peterson. 
However, a lack of both 
GET RID OF YOUR OLD SHOES... 
' '

I I I 
~ 

student government 
The Problem;~ Old Shoes. 
The Solution;~ Turn 'em into something else. 

Student Government and Nike are collecting used or unwanted athletic shoes of any brand, and then we're going to grind them up and give them new life as athletic surfaces and Nike products 

The Goal. 

To collect 2000 pairs of shoes.. .the number needed to make an entire Reuse-A-Shoe basketball court. 

Collection Sites: 
• 
Residence Halls 

• 
Hesburgh Library 

• 
Loftus 

• 
Rockne 

• 
Decio 



•
Turtle Creek(#1638) 

•
Campus View(# 1828) 

•
Lafayette (# 16) 


•
Rolfs Rec Center 

• 
Stu. Govt.(203 Lafun) 


BROUGHT TO YOU THROUGH THE EFFORTS OF: 

.1'1. 

student governmenr 
moral and material support on the part of conservative bish­ops in El Salvador left the pro­grams, which were located largely in and around San Salvador, without the institu­tionalized staying power that they would need in the forth­coming civil war and ensuing social upheaval. 
"Archbishop Chavez and later Archbishop Romero sup­ported CEBs (progressive, grass-root programs) in gener­al. However, despite several attempts, CEB advocates never succeeded in institutionalizing the communities in the arch­diocese through a special office or coordinating body, the way they were in large cities in other parts of Latin America," said Peterson. 
When Romero became arch­bishop in 1977 he found him­self in no position to encourage the growth of the programs, but instead was faced with the daunting task of defending church workers during a peri­od of growing, and increasing­ly severe repression. The pas­toral, progressive programs that Romero inherited from his predecessor were more and more targeted by the govern­ment as dangerous centers for peasant mobilization. 
Romero continued to decry human rights abuses and speak in support of pastoral reform, thereby engendering the ire of both religious and political leaders. "These con­flicts sapped Romero's energy, isolated the archdiocese, and helped create a climate toler­ant of repression against its representatives," noted Peterson. This climate of repression culminated in the 


One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the 198,'99 School Year and January 198. Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
JOB HUNTING? 
ALL INTERVIEWS TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK ARE POSTED 
TODAY IN THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
OFFICE. CHECK NOW TO SEE IF YOU ARE SCHEDULED. 
IF YOU ARE NO LONGER INTERESTED, CROSS YOUR NAME OFF THE SCHEDULE. DO NOT TAKE AN INTERVIEW AWAY FROM ANOTHER STUDENT. 
NO-SHOWS HURT EVERYONE. 
IF YOU SIGN UP, SHOW UP. 

archbishop's assassination as he celebrated mass in 1980. 
After Ftomero's death, the progressive groups moved underground, to the "cata­combs," as Peterson put it. There they waited out the civil war, whi,ch came to an end in 1992. 
But the El Salvador of today is not altogether conducive to the furtherance of progressive Catholicism in its original form. The current bishop is a staunch conservative, concen­trating on the immaterial rather than the corporeal. "A bishop doesn't speak of poli­tics; he speaks of religion," is the mantra of the new Archbishop Saenz. 
Further, the former mem­bers of the progressive move­ment are wearied by the years of conflict, and are eager to go back to a normal life. "Many activists," explained Peterson, "were exhausted by years of crisis and repression, and needed a time to take a breath, to pay attention to family, or go back to school." He added that they did not re-establish themselves in social action groups. 
As a result, the remnant of Romero's social vision exists amongst secular leftists. "It has had its strongest impact outside of the church" said Peterson. "The ethos of pro­gressive Catholicism now per­meates the political left of El Salvador." 
In closing Peterson pointed out that Romero, despite being up for canonization as a part of the "institutional church," had his greatest impact outside of that hierarchy, among the peasants of El Salvador. 

Religious Relations with the of words to convey." ments of mistrust and hostility The final section, entitled Jews! will continue to make It also notes that the that we call anti-Judaism, of "Looking Together to a

Vatican 

statements. I also think that we Holocaust occurred in Europe which unfortunately, Christians Common Future," calls for· a will probably hear from the "in countries of long-standing also have been guilty." renewal of "the awareness of
continued from page I 

Pope himself in the year 2000. Christian civilization" which It also makes note of the fact the Hebrew roots of (Catholic! Project's international confer­And I think that may be a very "raises the question of the rela­that "governments of some faith." ence called "Humanity at the different kind of statement," tions between the Nazi persecu­Western countries of Christian "At the end of this millennium Limit: The Impact of the Signer said. tion and the attitudes down the tradition, including some in the Catholic Church desires to Holocaust Experience on Both McBrien and Signer centuries of Christians toward North and South America, were express her deep sorrow for the Christians and Jews." The con­expressed reservations with the the Jews." more than hesitant to open failures of her sons and daugh­ference, open to all students, statement's treatment of Pius In the third section, their borders to the persecuted ters in every age. This is an act will be held in April. XII. "Relations between Jews and Jews." of repentance," tlw document 
"I think a lot of people had "I think it evades a much Christians," the statement "Did Christians give every states. 'The Church approaches very ditl'erent expectations than sharper inquiry of Pius XII," acknowledges that the "history possible assistance to those with deep respect and great I did," Signer said, rellecting on Signer said. of relations between Jews and being persecuted, and in partic­compassion the experim1ee of 
tho fact that many people "They let Pius XII off a little Christians is a tormented one," ular the persecuted Jews'?" the extermination, the Shoah, suf­expressed tht~ir disappointment too lightly. The document slides and that "the balance of these document asks. "Many did, but fered by the Jewish people dur­in tho document. "I think one over the controversy," McBrien relations over 2,000 years has others did not." ing World War II. It is not a rweds to put this statf~ment into said. "I think that was a mis­been quite negative." The document then makes matter of mere words, but context. This is a statnrnnnt for take." The third section briefly cov­note of Pope Pius XII's efforts to indeed of burning commit­the whole Church, and that "This document is too subtle, ers the history of relations save Jews. ment." includns Asia and Africa. places too restrained in its language, between Christians and Jews, "[T)he spiritual resistance "To remember this terriblt~ the .lt~ws and the Holocaust too careful," said McBrien. noting that "the Jewish minori­and concrete action of ... experience," the doeumnnt have not been at tho center of "There should be a little bit ty was sometimes taken as a Christians was not that which concludes, "is to become fully instruction." more 'mea culpa' in it. I don't scapegoat" and that some might have been expected from conscious of thl) salutary 
Many Vatican observers spec­mean we should be groveling, "unjust and erroneous" inter­Christ's followers," the docu­warning it entails: the spoiled 
ulate that the Pope may make a but there was a lot of evil and a pretations of the New ment states. "We deeply regret seeds of anti-Judaism and more forceful statement in lot of silence and complicity." Testament have encouraged the errors and failures of those anti-Semitism must never 2000, according to the New "It goes too far in separating anti-Jewish feeling in the sons and daughters of the again be allowed to take root York Times. Catholic anti-Judaism from Catholic Church. Church." in any human heart." 
"FortunatP-ly, it's not a state­modern anti-Semitism," Signer The fourth section, "Nazi "The Catholic Church ... repu­ment of tlw Pope, it's the state­said. Anti-Semitism and the Shoah," diates every persecution The Notre /Jarne 1/olocaust ment of a commission," said The statement contains five states that "we cannot ignore against a people or human Project's web site is at McBrien. "After the Vatican sections. The first section the difference which exists group anywhere, at any time," http://www. ndholocproj. com/ assess the reaction, the Pope serves as an introduction to the between anti-Semitism based the document continues. "She The full text, of the statement can issue a statement of his document as a whole and the on theories contrary to the con­absolutely condemns all forms can be found on the New York own. Given the Pope's back­duty of remembrance. It states stant teaching of the Church on of genocide, as well as the Times web site under World ground. he can really write a that "no one can remain indif­the unity of the human race ... racist ideologies that give rise News. The site is at personal statement that would ferent (to the llolocaustl. least and the long-standing senti-to them." h ltp:llwww. nytimes. com/ be powerful." of all the Church, by reason of 
"I hope (there will be a state­her very close bonds of spiritual ment by the Popel. but that's kinship with the Jewish peo­not the same thing as saying I ple." It also asks "our (the think there will be," McBrien Church's! Jewish friends, 
continued. "John Paul II is in 'whose terrible fate has become the final stages of his a symbol of the aberrations of Pontificate. Could he write one'? which man is capable when he Sure. It is likely'? I don't know if turns against God' to hear us it's likely. Do I think he should'? with open hearts." 
Emphatically, yes." The second section, "What Signer expressed more opti­We Must Remember," empha­mism about a possible state­sizes the magnitude of the 
ment from the Pope. Holocaust, stating that the 
"I think in the years ahead "inhumanity with which the that the Commission [the Jews were persecuted and mas­Vatican Commission on sacred ... is beyond the capacity 


Please recycle The Observer. 

Pick Up These Hot Hits On.Sala'
. . . '', ~ 



At Meijer Music 
MEl ER Your 24-Hour Mus'ic Connection 

® 
Sale prices good 3/16-21 

~-----~-~----~-------------­

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
TVA hopes to produce nuclear weapons material 
WASliiNGTON 

The Tennessee Valley Authority is vying for a contract that would make its facilities in Alabama and Tennessee the first civilian reactors in the United States to produce weapons material. Officials said Tuesday that if the authority wins an Energy Department technology competition, it will begin producing tritium. a key ingredient in nuclear bombs, at its reactors in the two states. The Tennessee Valley Authority will have to reenivn approval from the regulatory commission to manufacture tritium at Watts Bar and to complete construction of Bellnfont1~. The authority is trying to con­vincn the Energy Department to choose its rnaetors instead of building a new, more expensive lirwar accelerator at Savannah Hiver. 
Feds merge clinic, Olympic bomb investigatons 
WASHINGTON 

Fed!)ral officials announced the merger Tuesday of their investigations into three Atlanta bombings with the probe of a blast at a Birmingham, Ala., abortion clinic. The announcement made no mention of Eric Hobert Hudolph, who is charged with bomb­ing the Birmingham clinic, but the now­superseded Atlanta Bomb Task Force had been looking into whether he might also be responsible for the Atlanta attacks, which began with a blast in Centennial Olympic Park in July 1996. Officials say they have found some tenuous links between Rudolph and some of the Atlanta bombs, but not enough to charge him in those blasts. 
Mississipi archive unseals commission files 
JACKSON, Miss. 

The secrets of Mississippi's segregation enforcement agency spilled from computer screens Tuesday. painting a picture of petty. small-town espionage and alarming invasions of individual privacy. The Mississippi Sovrm~ignty Commission, crnated by a nervous LPgislature in 1<J!i6, two years after federally orden~d school integration, employed dozens of agents and informants to ferret out gossip, tall tales and. sometimns. facts about those involvnd in civil rights and voter registration drives in the state. Twenty-one years later, lawmakers tried to bury the commission's transgressions by sealing its Iiles for 50 years. But civil rights activists and the American Civil Libnrties Union sued to make them public. It took 21 years more. but on Tuesday, anyone who carmi to stand in line at the Archives & llistory Departnwnt could search the records. 
Dow 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1779.30

8749.99 
-8.88 
NYSE: 563.09 +1.15 
S&P 500: Composite 
I 080.45 Volume: 

+31.14 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

+ 1.18 674,021,251

CUMJ!Af!il:  IICKEB  1 ti1CU~t:U.IE  S GAl~  I!BICf  
INTL ISOTOPS  ITI.  105.08  12.9.-\7  25.25  
INTl.IVE COMM  NETL  80.00  1.000  2.2S  
ROCKY MTN INT·UT  RMIIU  73.33  2.062  4.87  
ROCKY MTN INTERN  RMI  69.91  1.625  4.2S  
BITS TRETM INC  BITS  SB.82  1.250  3.37  
BIGGEST PERC ENTAGE LOSERS  
DAOU SYSTEMS INC  DAOU  33.33  8.12S  16.2S  
NYMOX PIIARMACEUT  NYMXP  27.45  3.500  9.2S  
ANCOR COMM  ANCR  2S.S3  2.2SO  6..S6  
01.5 ASIA IIL!l · ADR  OLSAY  23.87  0.6S6  2.09  
MENOOC IND BREWING  MBR  23.80  0.62S  2.00  


Israelis, Palestenians plan to meet 
ASSOCIA TED PRESS 
UNITED NATIONS 
In a move that could rekindle Mideast peace talks, Israel and the Palestinians have tentatively agreed to meet under Swiss auspices to discuss Israeli settlements in the West Bank, ollicials said Tuesday. 
European and Arab U.N. delegates downplayed that initiative and passed a General Assembly resolution calling for a meeting with wider international representation -a move immediately attacked by the United States, which backs the Swiss proposal. 
Israeli U.N. Ambassador Dore Gold told The Associated Press that Israel considered the Swiss proposal prag­matic and was ready to go ahead. 
Palestinian observer Nasser al­Kidwa said his people were ready to cooperate with Switzerland, but pre­ferred a U.N. General Assembly reso­lution that called for a meeting of all signatory nations to the Geneva Convention, which bans the usurpa­tion of land by an occupying power. 
Israel does not recognize the Convention's application in the terri­tory it captured in the 1967 Mideast War, which it does not regard as occupied. 
The Palestinians and the European Union say the Convention would ban settlement building in occupied areas. 
The Swiss meeting, which has yet to be scheduled, would revive talks on a substantive issue for the first time since Israeli settlement building chilled negotiations a year ago, olli­cials said. 
Israel staunchly opposes a full meet­ing of the Geneva Convention signato­ries, eager to keep away parties it sees as pro-Palestinian, especially the 15-member European Union. 
The General Assembly resolution, a reiteration of a November resolution, was approved by a vote of 120-3. 
come of discussions that have not yet Meanwhile. United Nations
Israel, the United States and 
taken place." Secretary-General Kofi Annan said atMicronesia voted against it. General British Ambassador John Weston, the world body's headquarters inAssembly resolutions are not binding. 
speaking on behalf of the European Geneva on Tuesday that he expects
U.S. Ambassador Bill Richardson 
Union, pressed for a full convention of the United States soon will announcesaid the resolution "prejudges the out-the Geneva signatories. new ideas to restart the talks. 

Trade groups fight cloning legislation 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 

NEW YORK 
Drug makers; having blocked anti.,cloning legisla­tion in Congress, are now scrambling to do the same with bills that would make human cloning illegal in 24 states, 
Two trade groups have launched a state-by~state campaign to combat 50 anti bills,, being 
· y~ar in legi~~ .....,,_.,_,'"....~,....-California to Connecticut The state bills, which emerged after Chicago physicist Richard Seed pledged in January to clone a human, ended drug mak· ers' tion over tM 
ing human guinea Wars,' " he said. "This is they argue the ,............u~· biomedical bills are so .un•auu th!ilY coul researchers tine tec:hniquJls 
will hit all the states that 
have taken up anti-cloning 
bills this year: Alabama, 
Connecticut. Delaware; 
Florida, Georgia, Hawaii 
Illin,ois, Indiana, Kansas, 
Maryland, Michigan, 
Minnesota; Mississippi, New 
Hampshire, New Jersey, 
NewYork, North Carolina, 
Ohio. Pennsylvania. Rhode 
Island, South Carolina, 

TennesseetVfrginia and . Wisconsin. ~-· "l've g()~i~ __ , lking on;·~ Trewhitrsaid. 
stakes are high. Drug 
makers are expected to 
spend an estimated $20.6 
billion on research in the 
United States and Europe 
tbisyear. · 

---~-----------~~~------~-----~--------~­
Wednesday, March 18, 1998

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
1955 grad Huether gives major gift to ND 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a major gift from Hichard Huether of Schenectady. N.Y., to support the renovation of the Main Building. 
"The history of the Huether family is tightly woven through the history of Notre Dame." said Notre Dame president Father Edward Malloy. "This most recent instance of the Huethers' ongoing generosity to the University honors that rela­tionship in a particularly fit­ting and splendid way." 
John Huether of Sharon, Pa .. enroll<>d at Notre Dame in 191 8, majored in electrical engineering and was graduat­ed in 1922. Ted Huether was a 1924 business graduate. Hobert Huether was a 1939 aeronautical engineering graduate. Their cousin, Charles Huether, enrolled in Notre Dame's class of 1922, but died of scarlet fever in the 
Art 
continued from page I 
bnst, and those two will rncnive the honorable awards," Crunk stated. 
The Avenue is a journal fea­turing works of writing by students, faeulty members, alumnae and neighboring citi­zens. It also publishes non-fic­tion prose. The Avenue fea­tures a more opinionated, personal. and argumentative point of view. 
"The Avenue presents a more creative dialogue in which the readers are able to interact and relate to each other through the various forms of writing," Crunk said. "There are so many talented student writers in all majors, and through providing an opportunity such as this allows everyone to shine." 
"The Avenue was started by stu(l!mts with faculty input, which was an opportunity for the students to voice their opinions," Billy stated. 
Submissions are due tomor­row at the latest. The theme for this magazine will be "l.1~t's Talk: Women at Saint Mary's College and in the 21st Century." Submissions related to this subject will be placed in a special section in this magazine which has been specially designed for that subject. 
Works on other topics are still encouraged and will be aeeepted for submission as well. 
"With more effort, we arc trying to become more visible to the students so that their involvement will help to attain our goal of having this maga­zine published twice each year," Billy stated. 
Writing submissions for the two publications should be submitted to room 310 Madcleva. while art can be turned into the Gallery office located in Moreau. All sub­missions for Chimes arc due by March 25. 
"We are really excited about both publications this year," Crunk stated. "With further student interest and excite­ment, the dialogue between the students and faculty mem­bers can only become more effieient," she concluded. 
University's infirmary in 1920. 
Richard Huether is a 1955 Notre Dame marketing gradu­ate. Fourteen years ago, fol­lowing a long career as a marketing executive at General Electric, he began a new association with the University as a lecturer and popular mentor in Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. His lectures in marketing and manage­ment have been attended by mom that 6,000 graduate and undergraduate business stu­dents. 
He developed and now facil­itates the "Life After Notre Dame Athletics" program for the Notre Dame athletic department and is a member of the University's Sorin Societv. the Badin Guild, the board of Adworks and the Friends ofthe Snite Museum. 
llenovation of the University's Main Building is expected to be complete by July of next year. 

Film 
continued from page I 
high school and junior high teachers could use some help sorting out issues with I Iolocaust education." 
Welle hopes that the week­end's events will allow the University to become more accessible to the local communi­ty. 
''I've always thought Notre Dame could do more to be involved in the local community. It's an important part of the eommunity; it should be an edu­cational leader. [Notre Dame] can use its considerable resources in ways to involve local teachers. It's important that local teachers think Notre Dame has something to offer them," Welle said. 
After previewing numerous lilms dealing with the lloloeaust, Welle selected four that he believes provide a variety of per­spectives. The first, "The Nasty Girl," runs Thursday and Friday at 7:15 p.m. It is a 1990 fiction lilm from Germany about a high school studeot who writes a paper on her hometown during the Third Reich. According to Welle, this film addresses the issues of how to deal with the Holocaust and what lessons to 
remember from it. 

The second film, "Dark Lullabies," runs Thursday and Friday at 9:15 p.m. It is a docu­mentary by Irene Lilienheim Angelico, a Canadian who is the daughter of I Iolocaust survivors. The film addresses the issues of a child trying to come to terms with her parents' experience. 
Angelico will  speak  at  the  
teacher's  workshop  on  
Saturday.  

"Yiddlc with His Fiddle" and "Garden of Finzi-Continis" will run Saturday night. "Yiddlc with llis Fiddle" is a Yiddish lietion film. Yiddish, along with Hebrew, is the most common language~ for Jews, aeeording to Welle. 
"[This lilm] gives somewhat of a flavor of Eastern European Jewish life between the World Wars. It's important that people learn something about Jllwish life and culturn so that Jews aren't just victims or the Holocaust and pcopln know that they have rich cultural tradi­tions," Welle said. 
"Garden of Finzi-Continis" is a film about an Italian Jnwish community on the eve of the Holocaust. According to Welle, this lilm also provides insight on life in a Jewish community. 
"There are great dill'erences in Jewish communities in Europe. They are very heterogeneous. 
It's important in Holocaust edu­cation that some attention be given to who these people were. It's also important that this be done at a Catholie university because it's something Catholics and the Catholie Church have to eome to terms with," Welle said. 
The film symposium and workshop arn only the beginning of the events that the I lolocaust Project has planned l'or this semester. On Sunday, April 19 at 2:30 p.m., the Project will host the Holocaust Memorial Chamber Music Concert in the AnnPnberg Auditorium. Selections or music for the con­cert were written in a concen­tration camp and only rncently rndiseoverml. 
"Writt1m in Memory: Portraits of the I lolor:aust," an art exhibit by Jell'rey Wolin, opens at 3:4!i that afternoon in the Snite Mus1~um. Wolin's 1~xhibit is sponsored by the Kurt and Tessy1~ Simon Fund l'or I Ioloeaust Hmnembrancn. 
On thn following Sunday, the Holocaust Project kieks off its larg1~st evnnt, an international conf'erencn nntitlml "Humanity at the Limit: The Impact of the Iloloeaust Expnrinnce on Jnws and Christians." This interdisci­plinary conference inelud1~s scholars from around the world addressing numerous lloloeaust issues. 


-Mornmgstar rating for the CREF Stock Account, CREF Global Equities Account. CREF Equity Index Account, and CREF Growth Account* 
***** 
" A .
... mencas 
Top Pension Fund." 
-MoneyMagazme, January 1998 

IDGH MARI(S FROM MORNINGSTAR, S&P, MOODY'S, MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL. 
"'l"l Je take a lot of pride in gaining high marks 
V V from the major rating services. But the fact 
is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every 
day from our participants. 13ecause at TIAA-CREF, 
ensuring the financial futures of the education and 
research community is something that goes beyond 
stars and numbers. 
We became the world's largest retirement orga­
nization· by ofl'ering people a wide range ofsound 
investments, a commitment to superior service, and 


Ensuringthefutu.re for those who shape it."' 
operating expenses that are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries!' 
With TIAA-CREI·~ you 'II get the right choi<'es­and the dedication -to help you achieve a lifetime offinancial goals. The leading experts agn•e. So does Bill. 
Find out how TIAA-CREF can help you build a comfortable, financially secure tomorrow. Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call us at 1800 842-2776. 
• _.,our~:c ..Murnm!N.It, 1!11:., JJilUJI"\" .~1.1WM Murnm~_t\IJri~JnmdcrcnJcm M:ni~·c lltJI rJtc' mutual fund.• Jnd \'J.nJb1c .:mnUIUt'~. The top Jf»%ut fun~.h m Jn im·c\IIIICilllolh'l!-111"\' rcu.'I\"C li\l' 'lolt,JIId th~: IW\1 22 5~ rcu:l\"e luur ''·11:". ,\lunun~~~.ar prupnetJt\' r.1nn~' rclleltlmtuneal mk-.:adJU~ted )lCrfi•nnanc~ ;and arc \uhjc..:r tn t·hange C\'en· mumh. The\' an: cakul.ne&J lf"um the J\·c~mm·, thn.·~· , th·e , Jnd h'll \\'Jr .t\~'1.1~\' .tnnuJI rt'IUfll\ Ill C\Cc" til 'lll do1\· Irc;a,un h1ll rcrurn' wrth appn•pn:uc fcc adtu\tmcnt~. and a ri~ tJcn1r that rcllech JlCrfi•rmann· bclrl\\" YO·dJ\' T·b1ll return' The ri\WJJI \tJr rJtlllg' rdCrred ''' Jh!l\t' Jn· Mr 1rn111g,IJI'' pul'lh,hcd rJtin~'· \\h1d1.tn: \\crtthtcd J\"''l<llf;C\IIIIt' three , Ike·, .mJ tciH'C;tr ntmg~ tix pcriu~.h ending Januar~· 31, IYYM. l11e !>t!par.uc (llllJ'UhhoJicd) rJtln~' ti•rcadlufthL')X'nlkl" Jl"l.': 
CIJ!F Stod< .._.,. 

CJ.BF Global 1Wpk1es Account CREF Bqul1y lnda A=ont CI.BF Growth Aa:out CI.EF load Markd A«ouat CI.EF Social C1tob Attount S!JrR.iung/ Sur R.mng;· SurR;lllng/ StMilmnl'/ Sl.lrR.iunRf \1JJ kJnnlt-· 
Number ol llomc"'11. l:.qum Sumhcrjlt'lnrenutKmall-.qully Xumhcr•1fDomc-.tK 1-.qull}· Number nlllt•mc\Uc 1-.q'Jit) ~uml'll:r ul ~1\tJ )nC:tllllf: t\iXIIUIIt\ :\umbn,ttl"'h.lllk'\IR"h)llll\ r.riod Au:uunt,R.Jtnl A~..:uunl\ R..itl"ll 
!u:cuunn R.ltct.l Accuunh R.atl:\1 lt..itl'll Aun\.1111\ lllll·J 3·Ycu 4/I,H!\6 4j3YI !\/1,851"1 5/1,856 4/675 of/1.K!\to 5-\'cu 4/l,l1K 5(207 N/A N/A 4/+43 4/1,218 111-Y~:u 5/612 ~/A 
N/A N/A N/A "lA 
••The~ rup rarmtt' J~e ho.-:cd '.'"TIM·, cxcepuunal_ tinandJI \lrcngt_h, chum~·ra~·mg di'tih~· .md <1\-erall Upcn!ti_ng pcrfi,mum:c. 1lbM:d un nsc:t' under m.lllJBcnX'III. nsuwdnrd C" l'm1rj Jmurt~nrr R.tllllf,ll AnRI.vm, 1997; L1ppcr AnJI\'trc.:al Scn·~ee~. Inc., L•pp~r-l>~rrct(II·'J Ana(vma/ /)ara. IYY7 (Quarn:rl~·). CREfc.:enltic.:atc:. and mtc:n:sts m the TIM RcJI E\Utc Ac..:ount .m: dl\~t~hutcd h\" TIM·l'RI-.1-fmJ1,·1duJI .:and hNI!UIIonal Scn·i..:c\. N1r mun: eumpktc inli1rmJt1nn, mduding chuge' Jnd cll:pcrN.:", nil I MIMI N4l-l733, cxtcn~iun 550Y, fur the CREI-.1nd TIAA Rc.1l btJte AL'\'1111111 I'I'U~JX'O.:III'>l''· Re.td thl'lll CJrdi.lll~· tx·lnn.: 
\'UU 111\'C~I lit \CIId IIIUil(\". 
2:!'111 

Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

Arcos: U.S. foreign policy built Latin American. armies 
By SHANNON GRADY 
News Writer 
As part of the 1998 Human Rights and Cultural Diversity Week. a lecture entitled "U.S. Foreign Policy in the Past and Present: Implications for the People of Latin America" w~s given yesterday by Cresencw Arcos Jr. and Ivan Jaksic. 
Arcos. a former U.S. Ambassador to Honduras, spent 25 years in the State Department. Jaksic is a profes­sor of history at the University. 
Arcos focused on the past 25 years of U.S. Latin America!l policy, which is concerned pn­marily with the Cold War and its aftermath. 
He stated that policy was dri­ven primarily by Soviet Communism because only the USSR had the threat of nuclear incineration. When the U.S. began working with Latin America, it wanted to create policy that would be advanta­geous to them in the case of war, Arcos said. 

He added that the U.S. decid­ed to use the Latin American resource that would be most beneficial to it: the military. 
According to Jaksic, the U.S. trained the military and armed them, but the local population had to deal with them. Murder, rape, and injustices of every kind imaginable plagued Latin Americans. Unfortunately they had no recourse of action because the military was the only institution in Latin America. 
The problems of Latin America are vast and difficult, Arcos continued. But their most devastating problem is a lack of the rule of law. A cor­rupt police and judiciary and a lack of law and administration make crimes difficult to prove and even more difficult to pun­ish. 
Jaksic added that for Latin America to overcome its prob­lems today, democracy must be ~trengthened in the region so that more chances to cut these problems can arise. Also, the U.S. must make efforts to cooperate economically with Latin America and increase trade. 

Another problem that Latin America faces, according to Arcos, is the degradation of its environment. The destruction of the South American rain for­est, increasing at a steady rate for the last 40 years, endan­gers those who live there as well as everyone on the planet. 

Fred Drasner 
Chief Executive Officer 









An Open Letter to Students Planning to Attend Law School from 
U.S. News & World Report 
____, 
Dear Student: 
DON'T YOU JUST HATE TO BE GRADED? Well, by their shrill protests about U.S.News & World Report law school rankings, so do most of the deans of the law schools you are considering. However, as a law school graduate with both a 
J.D. and a LLM. degree, I can tell you that these same deans will subject you to rigorous grading. You will be required to endure lectures from tenured professors who have not changed their class notes since the Battle of Hastings. Then, after attending class for a full semester, you will be given one exam to determine .your grade. One exam, one semester, 
one grade. One roll of the dice to measure your performance. 
At U.S.News & World Report we are far more equitable (to use a legal term). We have a multi/faceted, mult:L/ dimensional, sophisticated ranking system developed and evolved over many years to give you guidance on what may be one of your largest financial investments and certainly one of the most important choices for your career in law and perhaps beyond. While our law school rankings should not be the only criteria in your choice of a law school, they should certainly be an important part of the analysis. 
Get your copy of U.S.News & World Report's Best Graduate Schools guide on newsstands now. Or, to make it easier for you to see the book that 164law school deans would prefer you not see (notwithstanding their commitment to the First Amendment), call1/800-836-6397 (ask for extension 5105) and I will arrange for a copy of the book to qe sent directly to you at $1 off the newsstand price.* This will also ensure that you have a copy of these important rankings because, as a result of publicity surrounding the cleans' determination to have you ignore the rankings, they are a very hot item. 
These law school rankings are a small part of our philosophy of News You Can Use": information we bring you in each issue of the magazine to help you manage your life. 
Good luck1n law school and good luck on making the right choice. 
Kindest Regards. 
Sincerely, 

• Shipping and handling charge., additwnal. 
1290 Avenue of the Americas, Suite 600, New York, NY 10104 
www.usnews.com 
Wednesday, March 18, 1998

The Office of Campus Ministry, Golden Dome Productions, The Catholic Communication Campaign, and NBC cordially invite you to be part of 



"Easter at Notre Dame: A Celebration ofHope" 
Two filming sessions will take place this Saturday, March 21st in the Basilica, from 9:30am until 12noon, a11d again 
....... from l:~Q12m untilJ:QOpm. m 
·;i;~ :;;r::·· \·. ·......... . ·W
'.. .......... ,.. ...................................... ,,.· ; ;t . 
\ .·:· ..""'"" .·;·""::....... . ........ ::::::........ . . . . . . Aii~:·;,:... . ,~!:: 
T';~~ets ··are nece~.~~IY;:.!2-~; ~dmissiol} t6",the taping ~.essioriS; these are aya.ilaQl~.. at LaFortune Box Office and Badin Hall's
:::=!·:· 

' ~.ampu~. MlnlStzy,Office. ' 
:•· . . . 'fil: '~i!li... . :.i . 



Please remember to'""wear your Sunday best, and come ready to sing with the members of the Notre Dame Folk Choir! 
---------------------------------------------------~--­
Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 


Jean l~enz to receivre degree from ]~ortland 
Special to The Observer 
Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice presi­dent for student affairs at the University of Notre Dame, will receive an honorary doctoral degree from the University of Portland at that institu­tion's commencement ceremony on May 3. 
According to Portland's president, Father David Tyson, Sister Lenz has "been a truly remarkable mentor and example to students of how one might live a life in pragmatic, patient, humorous and prayerful service to oth­ers." 
Father Tyson and Sister Lenz were colleagues in Notre Dame's office of student affairs, where Father Tyson served as vice president before being elected Portland's president in 1990. 
Sister Lenz, who received a master's degree in theology from Notre Dame in 196 7, has served in her present posi­tion since 1984. She was rector of Farley Hall from 1973 to 1983. She left that position to serve as rector and chaplain for Notre Dame's undergrad­uate program in London in 1983-84. She also served in the University's the­ology department faculty as adjunct instructor from 1973 to 1986. 
A member of the Sisters of St. Francis of Mary Immaculate, she served the College of Saint Francis in Joliet as an instructor in theology and director of campus ministry program before coming to Notre Dame. She con­tinues to reside in Farley Hall on cam­pus. 
page l_O________________:T_::h::..._eO~bs~erv'..:.e~r-·~P.:_:'A~I~D:....:A~D~VE~R~T~IS~E~M~E~N~T~---------~~e~d~n~es~da~y,~M~a~r~ch~l~8~,~19~9K 


RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sporits. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
.. Jerry Barca, a junior Arts & Letters major residing in O'Neill hall, hails from West Orange, New Jersey. Notre Dame and RecSports have been an avenue for him to gain a wide variety of experiences involving sports. Jerry has volunteered as the .. Voice.. of Late Night Olympics, and for the last two years he has served as the Ring Announcer for the Bengal Bouts. Barca's aspiration is to land a front office job with a professional sports organization which believes in the integrity of its players and the game itself. 
Recipients receive <£~· merchandise from the 
Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 11 


Trial from Montana Freemen standoff begins 
Associated Press 
BILLINGS, Mont. 

Six Montana Freemen were ready to use violence to protect their comrades from arrest during the 81-day standoff with the FBI on the plains of eastern Montana. a federal prosecutor said Tuesday. 
But two defense attorneys insisted their dients were sim­ply followers swept up in events. 
The conflicting versions came in op1ming arguments during the trial of six Freemen, the !irst criminal trial in connection with the standoff. Four of the defendants continued to watch the proceedings on closed-cir­cuit television Tuesday from a holding cell. U.S. District Judge John C. Coughenour banished them from the courtroom Monday after they disrupted the trial opening with shouting and cursing. 
Court-appointed lawyers stepped in to represent them, but the attorneys said they had received no cooperation from their clients. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jim Seykora said in his opening statement that the jury would see videotapes showing violent acts the six defendants carrying weapons and robberies of two TV news crews. 
"The evidence will make it clear they were ready, willing and able to shoot FBI agents and other law enforcement offi­cers to prevent them from arresting their friends," Seykora said. 
Joseph Massman, who is rep­resenting Steven C. Hance, 48, said his client was merely a fol­lower and "not acting with knowledge or purpose." 
Lisa Swanson, who is repre­senting 25-year-old James E. Hance, said Hance was simply following his father's lead. 
Testimony got underway with Tommie Canady, a former FBI agent who now teaches crimi­nal justice at the University of Arkansas. Canady testified that diet. the FBI penetrated the Montana Two Freemen sat at the Freemen compound with wire­defense table -Elwin Ward, taps, hidden microphones and 57, and Edwin Clark, 47 N but undercover agents for 18 they also refused to participate months when agents decided to in the trial. They remain seated trap two of the men. when Coughenour enters and 
The March 1996 arrest of the leaves the courtroom, a bit of two Freemen, who were contempt he ignores. grabbed when they emerged The six men are charged with from the compound to check being accessories by aiding fed­out a communications tower, is eral fugitives -the other what led to the 81-day standoff. Freemen in the stronghold 
Canady said their surveillance dubbed "Justus Township" ­convinced them that the to avoid arrest during the Freemen were heavily armed standoff.. which ended June 13, and serious in their vow to kill 1996. officers who tried to arrest The Freemen's leaders are them, which is why agents scheduled for trial in May on waited them out until their sur­charges including bank fraud render. and threatening to kidnap and 
The two Hances, along with kill a fedleral judge. another son, John, 21, all of Two dozen people are Charlotte, N.C., and Jon Barry charged in connection with the Nelson, 42, of Marion, Kan., Freemen's two-year operation were the Freemen ejected from from their isolated compound. the courtroom. The FBI says 800 people from 
The judge and lawyers around the country took lessons already have agreed to instruct at the rural stronghold in how the jury not to co.nsider the to issue worthless liens and absence of the four from the "warraillts" the Freemen claim courtroom in reaching a ver-are legal tender. 

Study: drugs fi4) longer or"'blood J)ressure 
uarwcmants -or percent ofthe total­(lted their blood p '"''"'''" , . ., enough through sodium tion and weight lQss tQ be off 
.blood-pr~ssure medication without being hypertensive. 'f}le spetially counseled .sub­
•· jec.ts a4~}\leved the·· gte:tttest reductions in sodium intake and· weig}lt N averaging about ? ~5 percent sod~um reduction and 10-Jpound weight loss~ 
"These are modest changes." sa.icl Dr, PaulK. \"Vbelton, lead author and. dean of preventive medicine at Tulane University S£hool (}f Public Health and Ttopici'.l.l ·Medicine in New Orleans. "Ten pounds is not a huge arn(mnt. A 25 pe.rcent reduction in sodium is a<;.hiev­able. I'm not saying it's easy. But it is achievable." 
Two Ofevery three older Americans have high blood pressure; according to the NationaL Heart, Lung and 

was Blood Institute. · 
already under control ~ith Many of the partiCipants who drugs, but they were. !Jlterest­r~mainedon medication took ed in getting offmet:Jication' less than before, and they typi­The partiCipants 'Vere ran· cally felt better, Whelton said. domly as~~~l}ed to vari{)us . "This is good hews for older grqups of equal s~ie. Some Americ::tns with hypertension
continued simply to see their who may be unaware of the doctors and. follow th(:lir il1lpact of modest lifestyle
advice. .;..,.... · 
changes,'' said Dr. Claude 

Others also received special Lt~hfant, director of the counseling Jrom. nutritionists National, Heart, Lung and aJ1d e~ercistr counselors in los-Blood Institute. 
SHE'S BACK 

atnd now 

E;he's 21 
JB[AJPJPY 
Bli~~THDA~ 

§JHIANN(ON AMES 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, KELLY, & BILL 







VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Wednesday, March 18, 1998 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME O~FICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's O~FJCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EIJITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Heather Cocks 
MANAGING EI>ITOI! BUSINESS MANAGER 
Brian Rcinthalcr Kyle Carlin 
A'iSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

1-le.uher MacKenzie NEWS Em roR . . ........ Manhew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ................... Kris Klein Vn:WI'OINT ElliTOR ..................... Eddie Llull All DESIGN MANAGER ....................Brett Hudar SPORTS EDITOR... ............... Kathleen lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ... Michad Brouillet ACCENT ElliTORS.. ... ...... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .. . ...... Jennifer [lrcslow 
Kristi K1irsch CONTROLLER ................................... Dave Rogcro SAINT MARY's EDITOR ••••••••.....Shannon Ryan PttOTO EDifOR . .................Kevin Dalum 
l'he ( )hM"rvcr l!o chc independent ncw!lp;,pcr publa~hc:J by ahe studcnrs of rhc Univcrsi1y of Nmrc [)arne du l.ac and S.tinr M.uy·~ Collq;c. l1 dues nul ne~e.?.~arily reflect the policie~ uf the adminiura1ion of ei1hcr insri1udon. 'l'hc news is rcp<lrlcd .l.~ .acwr.1rdy .tnd ohjcctivcly a.. pos~iblc, Um.igned cdituri.tl!> rcpn:scnt the opinion of rhe majority of rhe E.dunr-in-Chicf, M.m.:~ging Edirnr, Ani!>tant Man.Jging Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Sporrs Editor, Acccm F.ditors, S.1inr Mary's Editor ;md Pho10 Eduor. Cnmmcnrarics, lcnc=rs and t:nlumm prcscnc the views of the o~uclum, .and nul Ot"(~rily 1hn.~ ufThc Ob!tC'rvcr. Viewpoint sp.ace is available to .til members of rhc Notre 1>arne/S.;~int M.ary'.!t community .;~nd lo all readers. The free' expre~ion of varying opinions. rhrough leners is encour­.J~ed. The Ob!o.('rvcr reserves 1hc right lo edit o~ll submissions ba..~ed on conrem or space rcstriCiions. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 6jl-4542 llusiness Office 6.~1-5313 Mamtging Ediror/Assiscam ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/l'lwro 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4'i43 Fax 631-6927 Accent/Saonr Mary's 631-4'i40 Vicwpoinr E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day EdimrNiewpoim 631-)303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Man.tger/Gcncrallnformarion 631-7471 Ncw5 E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.cdu 
• fROM THE lEFT 

ROTC on Notre Dame's Campus: 
Thorn comes a time to re-examine our values as a school. And we must ask ourselves what is missing here in the Notre Dame legacy, what is it that keeps tlw school from being a progres­sive rather than regressive learning institution? Many problems surface when the question is asked, from the abysmal state of women's rights at Notre Dame to tho ongoing oppression of our gay. lesbian and bi-sexual mem­bers. But the most glaring nxampln of hypocritical contradi<:tion has to bn the prtlsenee of one of the United Statns' largest HOH: programs. Here, at a school who pastes the image of tho world's most famous pacifist everywhere, horn, whore the eyes of tlw world often focus for guidance in moral issues, here at Notre Damn our 
studnnts are trained in the art of mur­dering others-the most heinous and 
pneuliar set of circumstances. 
I spoak from exporiencc, as a person who was manipulated into believing somehow that the United States stands on the moral highor ground in foreign affairs. that our grotesquely large bud­get for the military and a defunct nudear arsenal is acceptable, that the Unitod States is the moral protectorate of peoples' interests the world over. I eagerly signed on to Navy ROTC as a naive midshipman, thinking that here is tlw chancn to do something in which I belinvo. In the hack of my head though. was a tiny moral voice. The voice was an irritant, I attempted to bury it amidst all the marching and classroom instruction, and crisp tan uniforms. The voice grew stronger. In it wnre layers of deep disbelief at my own actions. My uncle's voice as he successfully steered me away from applying to the academics, the strong familial support, rooted in the Catholic traditions. for pnacc instead of war. 
And there was the formation of my own conscience. querying how I could participate in such smiling-faced evil when I had read Catch-22, All Quiet on the Western Front, The Rise and Fall of Third Reich, Killer Angels, and other books which tell of the horror of war. the most abominable pursuit-a pursuit in which no honor can or ever will exist. A pursuit which stands against all that is American. 
The recent weak-kneed American 
David McMahon 
attempt at strong-arming yet another country again (lriquois League, Sioux nation, Mexico, Cuba, Dominican Hepublie, the Philippines. Haiti, Panama, Vietnam, Thailand, and Cambodia, South Korea, Iraq, Iran, Libya, the Navajo and Hopi nations, etc., etc.) is simply about conquest. We do not have the moral imperative to play world policeman. nor did we ever. Our military has played such an egre­gious role in genocide, the develop­ment of weapons of mass destruction, and the sole deployment of such weapons. that it is astonishing to believe that we can claim moral higher ground in the conflict with Iraq and our continued role in devastating their economy and people for living under a dictatorship. The seeds of democracy never take root in the field of violence. If anything, Saddam Hussein has become more entrenched and popular than ever! Meanwhile, to the North. the US, backed by multi-million dollar corporations such as Lock-Heed Martin, force open new arms markets through the expansion of NATO, thus alienating the other superpower who has weapons of mass destruction. 
Ilypocrisy? 
At Wounded Knee in South Dakota, the US military, recording the events as a battle, slaughtered hundreds of unarmed American Indians with Howitzers, rilles, and bayonets. At Sandy Creek, the field commander paraded around the field of massacre with his men, many of them wearing the genitalia of their victims as trophy head-dress. This is the history of our most noble institution of the armed forces -the slaughter of the inno­cents coupled with the manifest of empire. Not democracy. but empire. Do we trust these people to give us accurate information? In the Gulf War, we were presented with dean images of precise bombs and laser-guided sys· terns. The message seemed to be that because we had such technology of war, we had the moral imperative to use it. The actuality of what was hap­pening on the ground is the reverse of the sparse yes sir media coverage we saw. The US bombed an air raid shel­ter. Need I say more than that? The US bombed an air raid shelter. 
Notre Dame harbors international law breakers and vicious aggressors by its continued support of the ROTC programs. The US has violated every treaty with American Indian tribes, broken the Geneva convention by bombing civilian populations. and more than likely employed biological and chemical weapons in the Gulf War which have caused the Gulf War syn­drome. Notre Dame harbors a group who has dumped bombs on an air raid shelter filled with innocents. Notre Dame has this blood on its hands by continuing to train these people to keep the processes of empire intact. Notre Dame claims to follow the dic­tates of Jesus Christ, first and fore· most, as even the most ill-informed student of theology knows, a peace­maker. Notre Dame, it appears, has 


A Blemish 
given up their right to such claims by not only continuing HOTC, hut by har­boring the largest band of these international brigands. 
There is an America separatn from the false image presented by Marlboro man, by the dean ads for the Marines in the streets of the ghetto, or in the goose-stepping march of killing machines around college !:ampuses. It is the America of the folk, who ding to the precious institutions of democracy as handed down from our American Indian forebearers. Tlw ptloplP, as shown again and again in history, resist American involvement in war. Even in the Hevolutionary War, so transformed from its reality by a few poorly done paintings, the pnople resisted, descrt!~d. dodged, fought against, mutinied. or disob!~yed the dictates of the military syst!~m. In the Gulf War. a peace resistanee was beginning to groundswell before the war's end. Tlw people of the United States am a law abiding, peaceful and just folk, for the most part. They want simple justice and diplomacy. Thoy want peaee and a chango of loadorship from the war hawks who arc greedily devouring the planet. We should all lly our flags at half mast or upside-down at the plight wn have caused in Iraq, and throughout our history as con­querors and barbarians. And Notre Dame should vanquish from its midst the Homan soldiers who gamble for Christ's clothes. 
David McMahon is a recent Notre Dame graduate who has settled in Central Massachusetts and can be reached at dmcmahon32@hot mail. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 18, 1998 page 13 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR
• PERSPECTIVES Of NO 
Honor Professor's 
Memory: Improve 
Academic 
Diversity 

One of the first people I met when I returned to Notre Dame for graduate school was Dr. Erskine Peters. Barely settled in at ND himself, Peters invited me over to his house for dinner, along with several other African American graduate students. He did this because he knew we were so few and scattered that someone had to offer an opportunity for us to 
===============================meet each other. I grew to enjoy theMel company of the soft-spo­ken profes­
Tardy 
sor. I admired his Southern 

-----========-----charm and 
hospitality, but more than that, I respected his insight, wisdom and strength. lie understood Notre Damr., and the needs of the African American com­munity. 
A few years after we arrived, he secured a grant from the Ford Foundation to conduct a seminar on tho implementation of diversity into the curriculum. I recall his calm lr.adnrship and quiet strength, elo­quently responding to those who questioned the need for such discussions. In my memory, it remains the most significant effort Notre Dame has ever made towards implementing diversity into the academic arena. 
While I never was fortunate enough to take a class from Peters. I knew what kind of teacher he was. lie challenged you, because he expected excellence -no matter who you were. 
This was a tough lesson for a few African American students who carne to me and said they were sur­prisnd how much red ink he put on their papers. They thought he was singling them out. I told them they were probably right; perhaps he knew he was the last professor they'd ever have where they could be fairly sure that they were being graded poorly because of their work. not their race. 
They didn't like that at first, but they learned to respect him for it and they became better writers too. lie was all about quality. 
You can't understand what a professor like Erskine Peters meant to a small community like ours. When you lose someone like that, you can't replace them­you just miss them. You feel the loss in your soul, becausr. you know then~ was value in him being here. In fact, there was value in him just plain being. 
Perhaps the best way Notre Dame can serve the memory of Peters is to continue his ground breaking efforts to implement diversity into the academic life here: both into the curriculum and faculty. Currently, the number of tenured faculty of color is abysmal. I am so tired of seeing good faculty of color ushered in only to leave shortly thereafter because ND has little commitment to keeping them here via tenure. P1~rhaps that is oversimplifying things. Certainly there arn challenges to increasing the number of faculty here, but Notre Dame is all about meeting challenges. 
In the U.S., we go through 16 or more years of edu­cation (1 0 or more courses per year) without ever having a teacher of African, Asian, Hispanic or Native American descent. It perpetuates the peripheral sta­tus of diversity education when very few exist in academia to nurture its fruits. I had one African Amnrican profnssor at Notre Dame. Prior to ND, the only two African American male teachers I ever had taught gym. Given faculty are part of the life-blood here. There has to be better representation. Bneruitment shouldn't be limited to just students. 
For ND to improve, we can't sit and wait for solu­tions to come. We must seek them, with the same dedicated spirit that Peters demonstrated with the Ford Foundation program. I challenge all of us-but in particular, those deans, department heads and oth­ers with authority over faculty hiring-to simply put a plan of action together and try to make a difference. Let's honor Dr. Peters by picking up his torch, and marching on. 
Mel Tardy. NIJ '86. is a First Year Advisor. He can be reached by e-mail at melvin. r. tardy.J @nd. edu. The l'iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



McKinney Verdict Se"lds Disheartening Messagte to Women in the Workpl~ace 
The acquittal of Army Sgt. Maj. offense accusations against pow­Gene McKinney on 17 counts of erful men? Consider the cases of sexual misconduct at a military two former U.S. senators. Brock court-martial last week served to Adams and Bob Packwood were further confirm the implicit mes­both removed from office under sage being sent to women across particularly odious circum­the nation. If you are sexually stances. Eight women made alle­harassed or assaulted by a man gations of sexual assault against having some amount of political, Adams; most of which had a economic, or organizational common theme. They said that power in this country; keep it to they had been drugged by a red yourself. No one seems to care. substance placed into their wine Time and again we see powerful or champagne by him, then sexu­men accused of sexual impropri­ally molested and in one case ety, and time and again their vic­raped. Adams quickly agreed not tims find that they, instead, are to seek re-election, but there was the ones who are put on ­trial. McKinney was F.~ A.­
accused of offenses rang-h VV ing from sexual assault to ( pressuring a seven month pre?nant subordinate into\ havmg sex. 
The "not guilty" verdict \,C means all that the six women that accusers received for their courage in coming forward was the opinion of the jury that they are liars and even racists. That's right, racists. Taking a page from the O.J. Simpson playbook McKinney con­tends that he is being sin­gled out for prosecution on the basis of his race. Add to all this the typical defense tactic of putting the victim on trial, and you have a group of vic­tims that get to be victim­ized again. The personal lives of the six accusers were scoured by the defense for embarrassing details such as illegitimate chil­dren and previous complaints of sexual harassment. 
Considering the treatment of the six accusers in this case, and comparing them with other simi­lar instances of sexual harass­ment allegation, one has to won­der how many instances of sexu­al assault go unreported for fear of retaliation. 
Retaliation and the pathetic track record of sexual harass­ment cases serve to drive many victims of sexual offenses under­ground. It is estimated by some studies that the majority of rapes in this country go unreported, to say nothing of how many are actually prosecuted. There is a disturbing trend of backlash against any woman who dares stand up and say: "He hurt me." About Paula Jones, Clinton strategist James Carville says: "Drag a dollar bill through a trailer park and you never know what will turn up." 
President Clinton categorically denied any sexual relationship with Gennifer Flowers (thus, she is a liar,) only to admit later to having sex with her "just once, in 1977." Desiree Washington (Mike Tyson accuser) and Anita Hill (Clarence Thomas accuser) were both branded as unwitting dupes of a racist white establishment. Defense teams will try to 
brand an accuser as mentally unbalanced attention seekers, but history has shown that the attention that they gain is usually of the worst kind. 
So just how bad is the track record of sexual 
~ ~ 
no further inquiry; no criminal case. For all the repugnance of Adams' alleged crimes, his pun­ishment was a fat government pension. 
Packwood, on the other hand, made things particularly hard on himself by keeping a diary chron­icling his life for posterity. He was hit with 18 complaints of sexual assault, which he later attributed to his binge drinking habits. While the most severe of his complaints was the compara­tively less damaging offense of the groping of subordinates, a Senate Ethics Committee justly forced him to resign. He got a fat government pension, too. 
Key to the cases of McKinney, Clinton, Packwood, and Adams is a definite theme in their pattern of sexual assault. The allegations against McKinney are character­ized by pressures for sex to pre­vent him from damaging their careers. Against Clinton it seems to be his penchant for getting women all alone with him in a room, then making his move. With Packwood it is getting drunk and becoming a sexual predator. With Adams it is his use of drugs to incapacitate his victims. The common thread among complaints about a per­son's sexual offenses lends credi­bility to the independent testimo­ny that is being offered by each woman. It is this nattern of abuse, ofllen over.periods of many years, that shows just how intimidatiing and humiliating are the tactics of a sexual harasser. People wonder why victims don't just come forward when the actual offenses occur. Embarrassed by their perceived lack of strength in handling the abhorrent situation, many seem 

to hope that the problem will go away on its own. It goes away all right, right on to the next victim. 
The McKinney defense liked to 
assert that his accusers were out to destroy his career for personal reasons. Remember however, that only Sgt. Maj. Brenda Hoster came 
then only in indigna­tion because McKinney was named to an army wide blue-ribbon panel to investigate sexual harassment. The others did so reluctantly, and one was even under orders to cooperate. These women really have little incentive to come forward. In fact, the perception of many women in the military on the subject of sexual harassment can be summed up in the 
wordsofMcKinney 

accuser Michelle Gunzelman: "Any time you report something-I have seen this in the military-any time a woman raises a red flag, it sticks with her the rest of her career." Factual or not, perception is important in determining a per­son's behavior. Fear of career impairment due to the reporting of sexual impropriety on the part 
-

of a female superior is something that few men would ever bother to think about. 
An unfortunate aspect about sexual harassment claims is that the evidence is typically circum­stantial. So the academic ques­tion becomes: Just how many women do have to come forward with claims of sexual wrongdoing for a powerful man to be pun­ished by our legal system? Six wasn't enough for McKinney. Eight wasn't enough for Adams. 18 wasn't enough for Packwood. Two have shown to be not enough thus far for Clinton. A headline on the ABC News.com website is entitled Verdict Angers Women. Why should it anger only them? 
Bronson Neal 2nd Year MBA Candidate March 16, 1998 
-

-

•NHL 


Canucks tame Panthers; Blackhawks down Sabres 
Associa[ed Press 
MIAMI 
In a matehup of two teams going nowhere, Brad May's goal with I :29 remaining lifted the Vancouver Canucks to a 4­2 victory over the Panthers, extending Florida's franchise­worst losing streak to 10. 
Peter Zezel scored two first­period goals and Donald Brashear added an open-net goal with 32.S left to ice the victory. Bryan McCabe had two assists. 
Garth Snow recorded 41 saves, ineluding several ster­ling ones, for his second win in three decisions since being acquired by Vancouver from Philadelphia on March 4. Florida. now winless in its last 12 games (0-11-1), matched a season-high with 43 shots. 
The Panthers had 41 shots against Snow when Dave Gagner, set up perfectly by Hay Sheppard's pass from bnhind the net, swatted it into a wide-open eage for a 2-2 tic with 3:51 remaining in the third period. It was Gagner's 17th goal. 
But with 1:29 left, May's soft backhander from the left face­off circle squibbed through the pads of Panthers rookie goal­tender Kevin Weekes, who is still seeking his first NIIL win (0-4-1 ). Adrian Aucoin and Bret llediean had assists on the game-winner. 
Skating with a man advan­tage against the league's worst-ranked penalty-killing unit, Zezel broke a 1-1 tie in the first period when he redi­rected Pave Bure's slap shot. 
Zezel. who entered the game with two goals i'n 17 games, doubled his season output. Bure, the fifth leading scorer in the NIIL, got his 33rd assist to go with his 40 goals. He has seven goals and seven assists in his last 12 games. 

The Panthers took a 1-0 lead when Viktor Kozlov took a drop pass from Dino Ciccarelli and rifled it past Snow at IS:37 of the first period. 
Florida outshot Vancouver 22-4 in the scoreless second period as Snow made several sensational saves. including back-to-back stops on point­blank shots by Hay Whitney and Hob Niedermayer. The 22 shots established a franchise high for any one period, eclipsing the 21 Florida fired on the Islanders on April 12, 1996. 
.Just four snconds after a Canucks' power play expired. Zezel l'lipped a loose puck from in front over Weekes. Todd Bertuzzi and McCabe assisted; all three Canucks were acquired in trades since Feb 6. 
Florida finished with an 0-8­6 record against Pacific Division team and 1-16-7 against the Western Conference. The Panthers dropped to 1-27-2 when trail­ing after two periods and are 0-9 since the Olympic break. 
Vancouver won its first game in Miami and is 1-2-1 here. 
Blackhawks 5 Sabres 3 
Alexei Zhamnov scored one goal and set up two others, and the Chicago Blackhawks 

held off a third-period rally in a 5-3 victory over the Buffalo Sabres on Tuesday night. 
Zhamnov gave the Blackhawks a 3-1 lead in the third when he poked in Tony Amonte's rebound, then he set up Greg Johnson's game-win­ner with a perfect cross-ice pass 9:05 into the final period. 
Chicago had a 4-1 lead before Miroslav Satan and Jason Dawe scored 1:13 apart in the third period. But the Blackhawks held onto the lead and closed a four-game road trip with victories over Buffalo and Florida. 
It was the first time this sea­son the Sabres scored three goals in a game and lost. Usually, that many goals are plenty for goalie Dominik Hasek . 
Ethan Moreau and Eric Daze scored the other goals for the Blackhawks, who have 13 goals in their last two games. Daze's goal went into an empty net with 13 seconds left. Wayne Primeau scored the other goal for Buffalo. 
Johnson's goal made the dif­ference. Zhamnov was skating along the right wing when he sent a pass to Johnson in front of the net. Johnson redirected the puck into the open side past Hasek. 
Coming off an 8-4 victory in Florida in their best offensive game of the season, the Blackhawks outplayed the Sabres. Yet they had problems holding leads after the first period and midway through the third. 
Satan cut the margin to 4-2 when he sent the puck to Hob Hay near the goal creaso and circled around the net before 
NHL Team Standings 
GP NORTHEAST DIVISION 
PITISBURG  67  
MONTREAL  66  
BOSTON  66  
BUFFALO  65  
OTIAWA  66  
CAROLINA  65  


ATLANTIC DIVISION 
NEW JERSEY 66 PHILADELPHIA 65 WASHINGTON 66 NY RANGERS 67 NY ISLANDERS 65 FLORIDA 65 TAMPA BAY 66 

CENTRAL DIVISION 
DALLAS 65 DETROIT 67 STLOUIS 68 PHOENIX 67 CHICAGO 66 TORONTO 66 


PACIFIC DIVISION 
COLORADO 69 LOS ANGELES 66 EDMONTON 67 SAN JOSE 66 CALGARY 67 ANAHEIM 66 VANCOUVER 67 

w L T PTS GF GA HOME ROAD 
34 32 29 27 27 26 
40 35 30 21 22 18 14 
39 35 36 26 25 24 
34 31 26 27 20 21 20 
19  14  82  188  156  17·8·7  15-8-2  
25  9  73  193  167  14-14-7  14-8-4  
24  13  71  174  160  14-13-6  12·8·4  
23  15  69  163  151  14-9-8  9-10-6  
29  10  64  156  164  17-13-3  7-12·5  
32  7  59  160  177  14-14-6  4-14-1  
17  9  89  188  131  24-7-1  10-8-3  
20  10  80  193  148  20-8·5  12·5·5  
25  11  71  178  172  16-12-5  11·10-4  
29  17  59  167  187  12-13-9  6-10-6  
34  9  53  167  184  12-19·4  10-10-5  
35  12  48  155  199  8-18·6  8·12·4  
43  9  37  125  212  9-17·6  2-18-2  
16  10  88  197  132  19-6-6  17-6-3  
19  13  83  198  158  19-8·6  12·5-6  
24  8  80  202  161  21-9·5  11·9·2  
29  12  64  181  189  14·13-6  9·12-3  
30  11  61  162  162  10-14·7  10-9·3  
34  8  56  155  188  13-16-4  7-12-3  
19  16  84  203  172  18-8-10  12·6·6  
24  11  73  191  173  19-11·3  8·11·6  
31  10  62  171  188  13-14-5  8·11·5  
32  7  61  163  176  14·16-4  10·11·3  
34  13  53  176  205  13-14·5  8-11-5  
36  9  51  158  205  11·21·4  4-13-7  
36  11  51  187  234  12·17-4  6-15·4  

beating Chicago goalie Jeff b!)fore the March 25 deadline, Hackett with a backhander. a team source told The Dawe made it 4-3 when he lift-Associated Press on Tuosday. ed a wrist shot into the top Sabres general manager corner for his first goal since Darcy Hegier would not eon-Feb. 2. firm or deny the request was 
Buffalo forward Matthew made, saying all nHwtings with Barnaby, unhappy since the players are confidential. Thl) departure of former coach Ted source said Barnaby <~sked for Nolan, has asked he be traded the trade earlier in the week. 
The Observer accep[s classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. a[ [he No[re Dame oHice. 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. w 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for ncx[-day clas­
Classifieds silleds is 3p.m. All classitleds mus[ be-prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per charaC[er per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves [he right w edit all classitleds for content wi[hou[ issuing refunds. 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies  I hate her.  
L....____N_or_I_cE_s____JI  .__I_w;_J\N_T_E_o__.l  .__I_F_o_R_RE_N_T_____,II  TICKETS  and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits  I miss the Pretty Family.  
Advertising Sales  APT.  New Buffalo, MI.  For Sale  and a toasty fireplace in  
••• Attention Sophomore  Internships  Prof or Grad Student who  Clint Black Fort Wayne 3/14  winter. Love and joy for  You want to go on Boose  
Accounting Majors•••  University Directories is hir­ commutes between  Brooks & Dunn 1st three  your baby all year long.  Croose?  
Looking for a job for  ing students to sell yellow  Chicago & NO Non-smoker  rows  Happy, caring professional  
next school year?  page advertising for the offi­ pref. No pets.  1-800-265­ 272-7233  couple would love to pro­ "Hello, I am a priest. Who  
Position available at the Morrissey Loan Fund.  cial campus telephone directory this summer.  1682.  PERSONAL  vide a new born with love, . joy and security. Call Ed  wants to get married?"  
Call Deb at 1-6616 for  Commission based pay  3 bdr home,2blks from  and Ellen at 1-800-484­ 18 people in a double.  
- information.  structure. Training program. Excellent sales & marketing  campus 273-1566  NEED A JOB NEXT  7011 Pin #4523  It doesn't get any better than that.  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY,  experience. Call 1-800-7 43­ YEAR??  ******************  
LATE,  5556 Ext. 143 or visit  1-BEDRM APT 4 SPRG'99  Student Activities is now  SABOR  LATINO  KTBR­ 
AND WEEKENDS!!!  www.universitydirectories.c  SEM  accepting applications for:  We wouldn't want to hurt  
Mon -Thur  7:30am ­ om  Looking for someone to  Thursday Mar.  19  his little bunny feelings,  
Midnight  cont.  2nd-half of lease.  LaFortune Building  9pm-1am  would we?  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  $7 -$8/hr.  Childcare needed  $200/mnth, turn, uti!. incld.  Managers  -me  
Sat  Noon -6:00pm  for Spring (4/5-6/15): T,W,  Call Binh 4-1515  Stepan Center Managers  Salsa I Merengue all  
Sun  Noon -Midnight  Th,  Ballroom Monitors  night!  "It's one of THOSE rooms."  
CALL 631-COPY  3:30-5:30 & summer (6/98­ ALL SIZE HOMES  Sound Techs  
8/8/98: T, W,Th, F 9-2) for  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Office Assistants  Club Landing  Isn't it a shame that we  
6 & 8 yr-old boys. Looking  232-2595  Information Desk  didn't make it to another  
I LOST & FOUND I  for creative, energetic, and  Attendants  (on Lincolway,  between  hockey game?  
experienced individuals.  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM  Games Room  Ironwood and  
Responsibilitiies include  HOMES NORTH OF NO  Attendants  Twyckenham)  The Grasshopper needs to  
LOST:  keys, on a joey joe  organizing and implement­ GOOD AREA 2773097  Cake Service  break his silence!  
key chain, call273-9942  ing educational activities,  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  (coming soon: CD release  
light housekeeping and  8 BEDROOM HOME  Building Set Up Crew  party!)  Please, just stop the mad­ 
LOST:  one gold card-can­ meal prep.  References  2773097  ness!  
not party without it!  if  required.  Contact Karen or  Applications at 315  SABOR  LATINO  
found, please call 241­ Gregg at Baer-Barkley &  FOR RENT: 2 BR/2 BATH  LaFortune. Deadline for  Jaime, you know you wish  
rumm  Co. 273-9000 between 8-5,  OAKHILL CONDO, AVAIL­ applying is Apr. 9.  you were a cheesehead.  
monday-friday  ABLE AUG. 1ST. CALL OR  Does it really matter which  
LOST -CAMERA IN A  LEAVE A MESSAGE  article  "I'm flying! Jack!"  
GRAY SUEDE CASE­ *** SQ./FR.  BASSIST***  (219)272-291 0.  is on the front page?  
- PENTEX SUPER PRO­GRAM PLUS -35MM W/  needed to complete ORIGINAL POP/ROCK  I  FORSALE  Hey-did you know...  Look, it's not that I liked the  "Let's take her to sea, Mr. Murdock."  
FLASH -PLEASE CALL  band.  Call Dan  x 0817.  We're open early, late, and  pink and purple silks .... I  
289-1324  weekends for your conve­ thought they looked STU­ "Ryan, be careful. Some  
NO students to participate  1989 2 door Nissan Sentra  nience!  PID so I bet on the horse!  things in here don't react  
LOST: Texas baseball cap  in 15 min. visual experiment  CD player, AIC, Excellent  "-THE COPY SHOP - Stop harrassing me!!  well to bullets."  
- in Hesburgh center Feb. 26.  for$.  No current Psych  condition, runs great.  LaFortune Student Center  
Sentimental value.  Jim @  lntro students please.  Call  $ 1800 o.b.o.  Phone 631-COPY  Celine Dion is really awful.  Thank you for flying United.  
4-0608  Prof. Gibson 7138.  273-6334  Really.  


Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
...

•NBA 
Jordan recovers to lead Chicago past Indiana, 90-84 
dn__ THE CUSHWA CENTER 
FOR THE STUDY OF --,I FAMERICAN C:ATHOLICISM
U presents 
"The Technopolitan Catholic: Michael Novak, Catholic Social Thought, and Post-Jlndustrial Liberalism, 1960··1975" 
Eugene B. McCarraher 
University of Delaware Thursday, March 19, 1998 
4:15p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Associated Press Pacers 90-84 Tuesday night. to Rik Smits for a tying basket. The Bulls, who increased their Miller then fouled .Jordan -a !NOIANAPOLIS lead over the Pacers to 3 1/2 non-shooting foul -and the 
Michael Jordan rebounded games in the NBA Central Bulls took the ball out of from a rare off night with a Division, won even though bounds. Jordan drove to the great performance against the Indiana's reserves outscored the basket, was fouled by Derrick Indiana Pacers. Chicago bench 32-0. McKey and hit two free throws 
Ileld to 17 points a night earli­Trailing 86-84, the Pacers got for an 88-84 lead. er, Jordan scored 35 points, the ball back after Jordan Smits then missed a 3-point madf) a big steal with 29 sec­launched an airball as the 24-attempt and Ron Harper was onds to go and hit two clinching second clock expired. But fouled on the rebound, scoring free throws with 11 seconds left .Jordan then deflected a pass as the final free throws with two as the Chicago Bulls beat the Reggie Miller tried to go inside seconds to go. 
Get ready to step out of line and donee Salsa, Cumbio & Merengue with: 









@"'\. 

~;tJ •M•i•c•h•io•n•a•'s•H•o•t•te•s•t•S•o•ls·~·B•a•n-d 
/~~ '( :·.;.,~ ' ·~­afJa LMJPINt; 




,.,r 

' • ~ 7Hfle~~ ~4e l'ttA, '1-1
(.-I ~ 

LATI~ DA~c.t usso~s BEGI~ AT a. 
4 

Cover charge. Must be 2i to enter. 
4 ~ 


' '" 


l':""'""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""'""""""""""""""""'""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""'i'' 
Day After St. Patridc's Day Party! 

Give..a..ways 

The Pacers, who trailed by seven points in the third quar­ter, rallied behind Chris Mullin, who scored 15 of his 18 points in the third period. Two straight 3-pointers by Mullin put Indiana ahead 65-62, its first lead since the opening minutes of the game. But Jordan had seven points in the next three minutes, and two free throws by Scottie Pippen tied the game 73-73 going into the fourth quarter. 
Indiana's last lead was 81-80 before a basket by Pippen and two free throws and a basket by Toni Kukoc put Chicago ahead for good. 
Kukoc and Harper finished with 17 points apiece, while Pippen added 15 points and Dennis Rodman had 19 rebounds. Mullin's 18 points topped Indiana, while Smits and Antonio Davis each had 14. 
'Jordan scored only 17 points Monday night in a victory over New Jersey -11 below his league-leading average. But he matched that in the first half against the Pacers, who used four different players trying to guard him. 
Knicks 100 76ers 96 
Allan Houston scored 31 points, Larry Johnson had 26 and the New York Knicks, after leading by as many as 22, hung on to defeat the Philadelphia 76ers 100-96 Tuesday night. 
The Knicks snapped a three­game losing streak and won for only the second time in their last eight games. They also snapped Philadelphia's three­game winning streak and pre­vented the 76ers from matching their longest victory streak of the season. 
What seemed like a runaway victory turned frantic for the Knicks in the fourth quarter as Philadelphia nearly caught up. 
A steal and fast-break layup by 
Allen Iverson, who scored 29 points, pulled the Sixers to 88­86 with 2:09 left. 
But Houston hit a jumper with a defender in his face and then made a pair of foul shots with 
1:25 left after Philadelphia had again pulled with two. 
A 3-pointer by John Starks made it 95-88 with 28.1 seconds left, and New York went 5-for-6 from the line the rest of the way to wrap up the victory and gain a split of the four-game season series. 
Terry Cummings added 12 points and 10 rebounds, Starks scored 11 and Charles Oakley had 10. Anthony Bowie, making his first start of the season in place of the injured Chris Mills, also scored 10. 

The Knicks, severely depleted by injuries, used only seven of their nine .available players. 
Iverson, after going 1-for-11 from the field and 1-for-5 from the line in the early going, fin­ished 9-for-27 from the field and 10-for-16 from the line. Tim Thomas added 22 points. 
The Knieks took control from the outset and raced to a 25-16 lead after one quarter. A 1 7-3 run made the score 42-24, and the Knicks took their biggest lead of the night when Houston scored on a layup with 2:25 left in the second quarter to make it 48-26. 
Iverson scored 13 points in the third quarter as the Sixers pulled within 11, and he had nine more in the fourth as Philadelphia made its final push. 
Nuggets 90 Wizards 89 

Anthony Goldwire sank a 3­pointer with 7.2 seconds left as the Denver Nuggets rallied to beat Washington 90-89 Tuesday night for their third victory in four games. 
Goldwire's basket capped a 10-2 Denver run over the final 75 seconds. 
The Wilzards had a final chance to win, but Chris Webber's fadeaway shot with three seconds left hit the side of the backboard and Johnny Newman blocked Tracy Murray's 15-footer as time expired. •. 
Denver (8-59) needs to win two games to avoid finishing with the worst record in NBA history, the 9-73 mark set 25 years ago by the Philadelphia 76ers. 
LaPhonso Ellis scored 18 points for the Nuggets. Newman finished with 16 points, while Goldwire and Cory Alexander each had 14. 
Chris Webber had 26 points and 10 rebounds for the Wizards, who lost for the sec­ond time in three games. Rod Strickland added 20 points and Juwan Howard had eight points in 32 minutes in his return after missing 16 games with a sprained ankle. 
Trailing 8 7-80 with 1:40 left, Denver went on a 7-1 run to pull within a point with 35 sec­onds to pl.ay. The spurt included 
-

a 3-pointer from Ellis and 
layups by Danny Fortson and 
Bobby .Jackson 
The Nuggets were helped by Washington's troubles at the foul line, where the Wizards missed five of their last eight shots. 
-
-

.. 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Tarkanian dismisses two Fresno players following arrests 
A.socia[ed Press 
FHESNO, Calif. 

Fresno State center Avondre Jones was kkkcd o!T the team Tuesday after he and a lop recruit were arrested and accused of pointing handguns at a man and poking him with samurai swords. 
Tlw arrPst of .Iones and Kenny Brumwr came hours after the Bulldogs lwat Memphis in the NIT and a day after Fresno Stal11 oflkials slamnwd CBS' "(J() Minutes" for focusing on the legal and drug troubles of tho school's athletes. 
"l was d1wastated to hear this," coach .Jerry Tarkanian said in a statPmnnt. "I couldn't «wen Pnjoy om1 night after a big victory." 
BesidPs kicking .lonns niT tho tnam. Tarkanian suspended Brumwr indefinitely. 
.Jones and Brunner wnre booked for investigation of assault with a deadly wPapon and grand theft. 
Police said the players and Colin DeForrest were drinking at Jones' apartment wlwn an argument broke out over a TV program. 
"Jones allegedly produced two handguns and poinlml thPm at the vietim," Chief Ed Winchester said. "Jones and Brunner then picked up two large swords and began beating and poking the victim." 
DeForrest, 23, initially thought the players were joking, but he quickly becamfl con­cerned when they pulled out "what were deseribed as samu­rai swords," Lt. Jerry Davis said. 
When DeForrest tried to leave th11 apartment, Jones grabbed his backpack and stole $230 in cash and a $500 camera, Winchester said. 
D11Forrest lllf'l and later called police. Davis said. DeForrest, deseriblld as an aequaintanc11, suffered minor abrasions and scratchns but didn't need med­ical attention. 
On Monday night, Jones played in the Bulldogs' last-sec­ond H3-HO victory over Memphis. Fresno Stale's next game is Thursday night against llawaii. 
Brunner recently was rHeruit­ed after leaving Georgetown and was eligible to play in the middln of next season. 
Jones was suspendnd narli«)r this sllason for violating school rules. lie was among eight sdwlarship players who missed games becausn lhBy worn sus­pended. ineligible, in rehab or quit the team -ineidents that "(>0 Minutes" focused on Sunday night. 
Only two scholarship players -Larry Abney and Demetrius PortPr -have been eligible for every gamn. 
"Avondre was playing under strict conditions, required by a Code of Conduct panel." Tarkanian said. "There is no excuse for behavior like this, and I wiii not tolerate a few individuals continuing to give black eyes to our program and our university." 
Tarkanian felt the "60 Minutes" report Sunday night was unfair, and University President John Welty was angry because it didn't say that Fresno State has one of the nation's 
The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism 
$500 in prizes 

The Department of Art, Art History, and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for consideration in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. 
Rules governing the competition are available in the Art Department Office. A total of $500 in prizes will be awarded. 
Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art Department 
-
Office. 132 O'Shaughnessy Hall, by 3:00PM, Monday, March 30, to he 
eligible. A student may only submit ONE entry. 
-

SUNDAY. MARCH 22 1:00-5:00 PM A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: Stages of relationship Steps in making healthy decisions Long-distance relationships 

... 
THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED ... BY FRIDAY, MARCH 20 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
uestlons? Call631-5242 Ask for John S lvia or Chris 

strictest student conduct codes. 
But The Fresno Bee said in an editorial Tuesday that "it is time to stop making llxcuses for these players and demand that they be held accountable for their behavior." 
"The worst of it all, perhaps, is that the b11havior of the lnam members and the coach gives 
subtle sanction to poor charac­ter, poor sell'-diseipline and criminal bnhavior in the minds of our community's children," tlw nnwspaper said. 

222.S. Michigan ·.SouthBend • ("219.} 2-~4-5200 
Declare a major or concentration in 
~s~ 7k~'7~~ ~m<:tpu eued ~­

Medieval Studies offers an exciting interdisciplinary program for under­graduates. The second major and concentration complement majors in fields such as history, English, and philosophy, while the full major allows more specialized study of the Middle Ages. You choose from courses based in the Medieval Institute and in these departments: 
Anthropology Art History Latin English German History Music Philosophy Theofbgy Romance Languages 
Other benfits of the Medieval Studies program include individual advising by the Director of Undergraduate Studies and a special graduation cere­mony. Graduates of the program go on to a variety of careers and to graduate programs in law, medicine, and the humanities. 
Visit our table at the Arts and Letters Program Fair Wednesday, March 18 from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. Monogram Room (Joyce Center) and our follow-up session Monday, March 23 at 7 p.m. Medieval Institute Reading Room, 715 Hesburgh Library or contact Prof. Discenza, Director of Undergraduate Studies 715A Hesburgh Library, 1-8304, discenza.1 @ nd.edu 



----~-~---------------------~---------------­
-------~-----­
page 17

Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
GROWTH OPPORTUNITY! 
Big Sacrifices, Bigger Payoffs 
Expanding international organization in business 2000 years, 900 million + members, seeks a few highly motivated college graduates with outstanding character and serious interest in salvation to preach Gospel and help build Kingdom of God. Must love a challenge. Will train right candidate to be priest or brother. Contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. Holy Cross Vocation Directors Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)631-6385 vocation.1 @nd.edu 
ANSWER THE CALL! 
AB, L.LC. 
;tetl tabrlcollon ,edlate C~~>eniii9S llowlng areas: 
Assembly lig Welder rake Press 
,ce preferred 1n
11s but may tra n 
person.
L.L.C. offers ive wages and ackove. We offer 
ppartunlty and a 
•vlronment that 
afetv and team­
YOU ore Interest· 
e aPPlY In person
esumeto: 
FAB, Llt 
I Leer Drive 
'~Zl~.~~: 
·nfo~6l 
~ire Mcxhine 
·lng mill operators.
'S, fixture builders 
l'::lv m;rr~~"~ci 
II. 
lUP LEADER 
MACK TOOL &ENGINEERING CNC LATHE PROGRAM& SET UP PERSONS 
Expertenc:i r.qvlred 

a~~~ ~~iiiifll:.. 
dian Dr., South~ rN. 
The South Ber 
Technician to wo 
You may particip1 
lty. We offer corr 
ance, holiday an o compensation, 8l 
Your responsibi 0 Pressroom, Can Your scheduled ,
0 
hour on-call rote 0 must have an el 
o ates degree. PC cation, organizat controlled manu and ability to wo training and or experience woulc 
'Nj!w Ytor Resolution' GET ORGAN IZEDI Does YOUr busY schedule stand In the way? You can ~nf on customized ~r­
~t~ !!af~r;t.~t, ~~~<t
ratln9'.'carl2'f9.f22-7354. 
Window & Screen Repair Howard Pork Hardware 
Now 
Online Michiana 
SIGN UP TODAY, JUST CALL 

CONGREGATION OF HoLY CRoss 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL\(!)/ 
411 J: lllffttrtnn ')AA-"11!'n ,......... -u... J.. , .... ,. .. _ .... ,.. ...+-' ------­
1DMn1-1738 REMODELING/
-viiV" HOME IMPROVEMENT M~=k~,EI A·Z Improvement
~.·J'J!~n HOME 1 Servl~mnaati too big or
and many surround nv tawns small, price guor­-------anteed 7· . 
PLOWING· commere 
We're  ttjjl  takln  
caunts.Ca  naw232  • 1  
STORAGE  "•  

--:-~-=---:--~~­
-:-. ·-"' -. 

'fi~. :~ ~~~~ LP.!...!m,ses.•Mtc~t. 
t. N!ust be 21. 
calls. .ELIV.fif.Y.PRIVER:S ~ · Emtt'CO't ~~~·· 
'· w:lm ar:i4'1i9l _
·ecleanl!llll ~~~ 
·~ ~Inn In
1 & Mlsnawaka. 
·~ ~ 
I Its. 74-6541. EOE. >FULL time & P0rt ttme m·
• PGrtun !Y oval1lob18 ,, : =r.ln&t,car =In­
•re~rnv & ~w~~~~ 'm 
~ ca~)~'lltr ,tt_';lnv ~~~~:\: ~ cklslreable. lfOil,riY
IY at National 
al, Mlchlanc:t Re-
m~lll'Ort. No pnone
11 0110 

. g~lls please. 
WORERS WORK TODAY PAID TODAY P~R 
New positions open dai~l ~ 
·&....L. at: end
"''''•r 2t: 
WOR READY fifi 436 Uncoln Way West 
ITI8I 
Or mil: 7g 239 1)162 
Ope
-.J mil!
Mlc LIJI.!l!Y owens Fo\11 {fl -P~ ~{e~~~M~~ 2 & -Elk 
G~l~xYbfeO,.WORK? I, P~ proylde !f!O"~u-RO! lan.APPIYMan-Frl,'i-liam Poii 

NEEDED: Sales R81)S1Cor· mnv· ­
~Cleaners, earn uP to lm ~ to start. 'It
n
Oll'lmlsslan. all far In-kno
tervlew 288-: co11 


~~~~ 

-.. 

.. • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 



Vaughn, Red Sox deny 1~eported contract offer 
Associated Press 
FOHT MYEHS, Fla. 
The Boston li:ed Sox denied they are on the verge olf offer­ing Mo Vaughn a four-year contract worth approximately $50 million. 
"We don't have any plans," chief executive office John Harrington said Tuesday at the owners' mfletings in St. Petersburg. "11. was an erro­neous report." 
Earlier in thn day, Vaughn dismissed The Boston Globp, story as "speculation," saying he could not be sure of any­thing until he and his agp,nt, Tom Reich, had an offer in hand. 
Harrington said the door 
'I remains open for Vaughn and the Red Sox to complete a deal before the end of spring training but added, "It takes two to tango." 

"We haven't talked to any­body, to my knowledge, about this situation yet." said Vaughn, in the tina! year of a three-year, $18.6 million eon­tract. "We have to see what happens. You can speculate what you want. but you've got to wait and see what the situ­ation comes down and then evaluate it." 
Vaughn, 30, hit his sevp,nth homer of the spring in Boston's 7-4 loss to the Texas Hangers on Tuesday. 
A $50 million contract. for four years would average $12.5 million per year. tlw same as pitcher Pedro Martinez will averagn during the course of the record, six­year, $75 million deal he signed with Boston this win­ter. 
Vaughn, acquitted of drunk­en driving charges two weeks ago, said last week that he 
~ .Christmas in April B~enefit Run 
~ ~~a~ ~m 

~aturdai, Mare,h ~S, 
~tepan C..enter 
T-Wirt~ to a\\ \Z.egi~rrant~ F-e.gi~ter in Mvante 
at {Zu'5port~ $(,.oo In Mvanc.e or $1.oo D~ of tz.ac.e ~· '5tudent and '5taff Divi~ion~ 

A\\ 'Proc.ud~ to ~enefit 1'rr~r~trt1il9 ri'fl ~~p~i:·\ 
.r 
would refuse a team demand that he undergo alcohol evalu­ation as part of a contract agreement. lie continued to maintain that stance. 
"That's the issue," Vaughn said. "Apparently, they've got­ten past that to make an offer, because we wcren 't going to talk if that was the ease." 
General  manager  Dan  
Duquette  has  at  times  
expressnd  concern  about  

Vaughn's weight as wnll as lifestyle issues. Vaughn has countered the team's rritieism with his own verbal jabs since his acquittal. 
A .29S can~er hittPr who batted .315 with :15 hom1~rs and 96 HBI in 141 games last season, Vaughn is hitting .457 this spring. lie wnnt into Tuesday's action lnading American League hitters in home runs and slugging per­centage this spring. 


Sponsored By 



...--~~--~~~-~----­
Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 


Vanderbilt ousts Wake fro01 NIT 
A'sociated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
Dan Langhi scored a career­high 19 points off the bench as Vanderbilt notched its first 20­win season in four years with a 72-68 victory over Wake Forest in the sneond round of the NIT on Tuesday night. 
Langhi. who had 16 points in Vanderbilt's first-round win last week against St. Bonaventure, rallied the Commodores (20-12) !"rom an night-point second half deficit with 11 points in the final 5:35. 
Wake Forest (16-14) lost for only tho l"ourth time in thn last (>4 non-conference games at Joel Coliseum. 
Vanderbilt, a team with sever­al key injuries, was able to pull out the win despite All-SEC guard Drew Maddux going 0­for-6 from the field in the sec­ond half. 
Maddux finished with 17 points in 40 minutes. 
Tony Rutland led Wake Forest with 15 points, but he missed two crucial 3-pointers down the stretch. 
Vanderbilt trailed by as many as eight points midway through the second half before rallying behind Langhi, whose layup and 3-pointer with 4:41 remaining tied the score at 59-59. 
Robert O'Kelley countered 
Fast. That's the kind of service you can expect from Fazoli's. 

9?resto. 
Whether you dine in, carry out or drive through, you'll get a real Italian meal in a matter of minutes. All for the price of a song. 

with a 3-pointer 28 seconds later and the lead changed hands twice before a pair of free throws by James Strong with 1:33 left gave the Commodores the lead for good at67-66. 
Austin Bates' layup from Maddux with 47 seconds left and a pair of free throws by Langhi sealed the win. 
A key defensive play was turned in by Vince Ford, who blocked a driving shot by O'Kelley with 1:07 left and Vanderbilt clinging to a one­point lead. 
Langhi's previous career best was 18 points earlier this sea­son against Furman. 
Rea] lfali ® an. Rea]Fast"' 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, Smtih Bend 317 W McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 

Wednesday, March 18, 1998 
page 19 

KAT 

Mookie Blaylock scored 10 points, dished 12 assists and grabbed 11 rebounds in Atlanta's 117-105 victory in Toronto. 
Blaylock's triple-dlouble leads Hawks past Raptors 

Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Mookie Blaylock had a triple­double and Tyrone Corbin led a devastating 3-point attack with 20 points Tuesday night as the Atlanta Hawks beat the Toronto Raptors 117-105. 
The Hawks hit 13 of 27 from 3-point range to hand the Raptors its seventh defeat in its last eight games. 
Leading by just one at the half, the Hawks took control in the third quarter, keyed by four 3-pointers from Corbin that led a15-5 run and built a margin the Raptors could not close. 
Atlanta's Christian Laettner got hot in the fourth quarter, 

scoring 10 of his 18 points. Blaylock finished with 11 rebounds, 12 assists and 10 points, while Steve Smith had 21 points. 
Doug Christie paced Toronto with 30 points. 
Neither team could buy a bas­ket in the first three minutes, shooting a combined 0-for-11 before Henderson finally opened the scoring. With Henderson's six points and strong rebound­ing leading the way, Atlanta built an 18-5 lead halfway through the first period. 
The Raptors then outscored Atlanta ~:9-13 over the next eight minutes, going into the dressing room at halftime trail­ing just 47-46. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March I 8, I 998 
•NBA 





Ewing talks about possibility of returning this season 

Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Patrick Ew. ng broke his three­month silence Tuesday to reiter­ate his intention to return to the New York Knicks in time for the playo!Ts. 
''I'm not going to risk any­thing. If that's the case, the doc­tors will tell me to come baek next year," I;wing said. "But if I prove I'm well enough to do it, why not do it this year? Why wait until next year?" 
Ewing made his comments to about 100 lll!!dia members prior to the Knicks' game against the Philadelphia 76ers. They were his first formal public comments since shortly .1fter he underwent surgery on his right wrist in the pre-dawn hours of DP.c. 21. 
Ewing fractured the lunate bone in his wrist and tore sp,ver­al ligaments when he landed awkwardly dter being fouled during a game Dec. 20 at Milwaukee. 
Doctors originally said it was a season-nnding and career­threatening injury, but Ewing has progressed so well that the team has since acknowledged it will consider placing Ewing on the playoff roster April 20 if the team qualifies for the postsea­son. 
Going into Tuesday night's games, the Knicks were in sixth plaee in thn Eastern Conference but only 1 1/2 games ahead of eighth-place Washington. 
New York also was in the midst of its worst slump of the season, having lost six of seven, and went into the game against the Sixers with only nine healthy players because of other injury problems. 
Aside from Ewing, two other centers are hurt. And eoach Jell' Van Gundy said for the first time Tuesday that he doesn't expect Chris Dudley or Buck Williams to return this season. 
As for the team's franchise player, Van Gundy said the "best-case seenar io" would involve having Ewing bae.k for the final three regular-season games as well as the postS!)ason. 
But the coach also warned that making the playofl's is any­thing but a certainty, ospecially with the Knicks having, in Van Gundy's opinion, tho toughest remaining schedule of' any of the Eastern Conference teams fight­ing to make the playofl's. 
"If anybody in tlw locker room believes that Patrick Ewing com­ing back for the last two or three games is going to have an impact on whetlwr we mak!) the playoffs or not, they're just wrong," Van Gundy said. 
With tlu~ injuries to the three centers, the Knieks have been vulnerable against low-post scorers. Charles Oakley and Terry Cummings have be1~n matehod up against opposing cenl!1rs, oftm1 giving up s1wnral inches in height, and hav11 had troublo keeping their own shots from being rejected. 
The n~turn of Ewing would I'!)Store a def<msive presencn in the low post, but his offensiv!) capabilities would bn diminished because of the injury. 
Ewing said he has not y1)t begun shooting tl111 ball. although he hopes doctors will giV!) him clearance to begin doing so this we11k. 
"I know I'm not going to bn abln to shoot from as de<1p as I usually do, but {I'll wmn back) as long as I can score in tlw post," Ewing said. "I won't bn full strength. but I'm nwntally tough enough to cop!) with that." 
TV station reports Drexler V\rill retire to coach alma mater 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Clyde Drexler, who starred on University of Houston's Final Four teams of the 1980s, will retire from the NBA at tho end of the soason to coach his alma mater, a Houston TV station reported Tuosday. 
Quoting sources, the station said the Houston Bockets' guard would receive a three-to four-year contract at between $300,000 and $400,000. Also. Reid Gettys, a former college teammate and 
Appl ..... ,.. "'. for'1 

OrlentitiOn · 

now a lawyer, would become an assis­tant coach. 
Tho TV station, KHOU, said the announcement to replace Alvin Bt·ook:;; would be made Wednesday at a 5 p.m. news conference. 
Cougars spokeswoman Donna Turner said as of Tuesday evening a news con­ference had not been scheduled, but "when we are ready to announce some· thing we will shout it out. We are not ready yet." 
Before the Hockets game against the Milwaukee Bucks on Tuesday night, 

One Day Table Tennis Tournament 
Saturday. March 2l. l998 ll :OOam-6:00pm Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 

Register in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline lor Registering is Thursday, March J9, at 6:00pm 


Drexler walked past reportors, smiled, and said: "The Milwaukee Bucks. It's gonna be a good game." 
Last week, Drexler spoke about the Cougars job. 
"I've heard the rumors," Drexler told the Houston Chronicle. "My first job is with the Houston Rockets, and until that's over, it's really hard to comment on anything else. Right now, I'm a play1)r for the Houston Rockets. The only thing I can really think about is playing." 
Drexler, who has indicated he will retire when his contract is up at the end of the S!)ason, said lw'd be interested in helping the Cougars' program. 
"''m a Cougar," Drexler said. "I bleed Cougar rPd. I low1 the Cougars. I'm going to try to do anything possible to hnlp them with the program. I've always don<) that. I'm looking forward to being a part of it in the future." 
Drexler played three seasons for the Cougars during the Phi Slama .lama era along with Hockets teammate Hak<wm Olajuwon. Droxlnr playnd on the Cougars' Final Four teams of 1982 and 1983. 
----~-------------~-----­
Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Dasso recorded the biggest win had a close match with NO's of her young career beating Hall and Gates, 8-5.



Tennis 
Florida's M.C. White 2-6, 7-6, Louderback was impressed 
6-3. Dasso is currently 23rd in with his team's performance.
continued from page 24 
the latest collegiate rankings. "We had good opportunities in The Irish faced their tough­
White was the runner-up in mostly all the matches," com­est test of the year on 
the NCAA championships last mented Louderback. "Michelle Wednesday against the top­
year as a freshman. Marisa and Marisa played great, beat­ranked Florida Gators in Vegas 
Velasco also had an impressive ing two of the most highly in the first round of the victory at third singles handing regarded players in the nation. Excalibur Challenge. Florida 
freshman Whitney Laiho her Both of them were undefeated boasts the deepest lineup in first loss as a collegian 6-3, 1-during the week. Florida is a the country and has won 78 
6, 6-2. Laiho was the number very good team and along with consecutive regular season one junior player in the United Stanford are the top two teams dual matches. The Irish lost 7­
States last year. in women's tennis, but we have 2 but had some impressive Florida's first doubles team proved that we can play with results. 
of Dawn Buth and Stephanie anyone also -including I;reshman sensation Michelle Nickitas, the two-time defend­Florida." ing NCAA doubles champions, After their trip to Las Vegas, 

At Northwestern College of Chiropractic, we feel strongly about the quality of education we provide to our 650 
students and their preparedness for satisfying careers. As our 3,000 alumni know, we can provide you with an 
unmatched educational experience featuring: 
• 
Awell-rounded, rigorous educational program; 

• 
Emphasis on clinical, hands-on education and experience; 

• 
11:1 student-to-faculty ratio, individual faculty attention; 

• 
Clinical internships in 100+ community and four College clinics; 

• 
Extensive interdisciplinary clinical learning opportunities; 

• 
An internationally-known research center; 

• 
Final term full-time private practice internships globally; 

• 
A beautiful 23-acre campus featuring superior facilities; 

• 
ACareer Services Office to assist graduates in job placement; 

• 
New state-of-the-art library to support education and research. 


For a personal visit or more detailed information, call a Northwestern Admissions counselor at 
1-800-888-47 7 7 
Committed to Clinical Excellence and Preparedness for Professional Success 
NORTHWESTERN COLLEGE OF CHIROPRACTIC 2501 W. 84th St. • Minneapolis, Minnesota 5.,5431 

SOUTH BEND. IN A representative will be at University of Notre Dame on Wednesday, March 25th from 10a.m. to 2p.m. in the Hesburgh Library -Information Booth. You are invited to stop by. 


271-1177 Notre Dame 1827 South Bend Avenue 
271-PAPA Saint Mary's North Village Mall 52568 U.S. 31 North 

r -----,
LMt
_·',e

I ._~---.· ~ _l I 
IOn.e~-.. . ·-. ·_16ppingl
I ~~--99 I 
I ·~'-. I
"~ /,,
<~xpires 3/31
L 





-----.J 



il(voted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1997, '96, '95, '94, & '93 Best of Michiana 
the Irish were on the road again to take on the University of Texas. Notre Dame split the singles matches but lost the two doubles matches for a 5-3 loss to the 7th-ranked Longhorns. The Irish recorded victories at second, third and fourth singles. 
Dasso improved her dual match record to a perfect 15-0 with a win over Christina Moros 6-4, 6-2. Velasco made it 4-0 on the week in her 6-3, 6-4 victory against Laurie Berendt. Gates lost her first set 6-2 to Michelle Feucher before coming back to take the next two sets by identical 6-3 scores. Hall again proved she can play with the best players in the nation. She took the country's third-ranked player, Sandy Sureephong, to three sets before losing a tight 6-7, 6-3, 6-4 decision. 

"Hall has had close matches all season long against the toughest competition possible in the country," said Louderback. "Playing well against the top players will only help her as the season progresses." 
The 24th-ranked Irish stand at 11-5 on the season with their five losses coming to the current 1st, 6th, 7th, 15th, and 17th-ranked teams in the country Notre Dame has a week off before traveling to Michigan on March 25 to take on the Wolverines. 
"We've played a lot of' match­es lately so we haven't had much time to practice," said Louderback. "It will be nice to get some quality practice time in order to get ready for the stretch run of the season." 




The ObseJrver wants Y()U! (fo recycle this newspaper.) 

Courses, Workshops, Seminars, Study Abroad 
Transferable Credits 
Accelerated Sessions 
Start Dates: May through July 
Register by fax, phone, mail or .. tn person 
Call1.800.283.3853 for our complete Summer 1998 Information/Application Package 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15282 www.duq.edu 
• COLlEGE BASKETBAll 
Georgia defeats N.C. State to earn quarterfinal matchup with Vandy 
Associared Press 
HALEIGII. N.C. 

Jumairw .JorHlS hit a rally­killing 3-pointer with 5:27 remaining to help (;eorgia hold ofT North Carolina State for a (, 1-55 victory in the second round of the National Invitation Tournament Tuesday night. 
Thn Bulldogs (18-14) moved into a quarterfinal matchup with Southeastern Conference rival Vanderbilt, which defeat­ed Wake Forest 72-68. 
Mired in 20 percent field goal shooting in the first half, the Wolfpack (17 -15) looked to be out of it when .:t :~-pointer from the top of the key by Jones gave Georgia a 43-26 lead with 

12:30 to go. 
But just like the Wolfpack before them in the first half, the Bulldog offense iced over. A 
lnge had two more foul shots to bring the Wolfpaek to 45-41 at 5:48, but the rally suffered when Jones hit his decisive 3­pointer for a 48-41 lead and 
C.C. Harrison was involved in a crucial call moments later. 
Following two free throws by lnge to bring N.C. State to 48­4:15 left. N.C. Statt) got no clos­er than live points from there. 
N.C. Statn's early dnfensive pressure forced six Georgia turnovers in thn first nine min­utns and kept the gamfl dose. After the second of successive baskets by Hon Kelley, tlw Wolfpack offense virtually shut 











live-minute drought opened the 43, llarrison was whistlfld for down . 
way for an N.C. State comeback an intentional foul. Phenizec A 1-for-11 drought would fol­
that cut a 17 -point gap to 43-39 Ransom hit a free throw and low, and thn 6-foot-1 0 Kellny 
ND-SMC Gymnastics Club -The Clover Classic Home Meet is 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

after two free throws by Kenny Larry Brown added a jumper to would draw his third personal on Saturday. March 2l. at 4 p.m. It will take place at 
lnge with 7:26 left. give Georgia a 51-43 lead with foul at the 8:1 :~ mark. Gymnasties Michiana. on Home Street across froJ:U the United Limo Ollief'. 
ND Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club -meets every Sunday at the HocknP Memorial. 10 a.m. to noon in room 219. The club teaches southern Shaolin internal martfal arts. which include Tang-style Tai Chi Chunn and "Five familil~s Five Animals" internal Kung Fu. Classes are non-competitive, and all are wel­come to attend regardless of prior training. If the above time is ineonvtmitmt or if you want more information. please call Teo at 

Consider the4-30 13 or e-mail cteodoro@nd.edu. 
Drop-In Volleyball -HecSports will be sponsoring Drop-In Volleyball every Wednesday night for the rest of the semester. Play will be from 8 to 11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Come by yourself or bring a friend. Open to all Notre Dame students. faculty and staff. 
Modern Dance -RecSports will be sponsoring a Modern Dance elass that will meet Sundays from 3 to 4:30 p.m. and 

alternativeWednesdays from 8 to 9 p.m. in Activity Room 2 of the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. There will be an information meeting on Wednesday. March 18 at 8 p.m. at the RSHC. You must regis-j' 
type of music. 
ter in advance for the class and sign-ups begin Thursday, March 
19. at 8 p.m. at HllcSports. The fee is $20 and no experience is necessary. Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. 
Christmas in April Benefit Run -March 28 is the date for this 5K or 1OK run and 2 mile walk. The run begins at l1 a.m. with the start/finish being at Stepan Center. There will be six divisions for each run with trophies being awarded to the top finisher in each division. All registrants will be awarded a t­shirt. Ttw cost of the run is $6 in advancn and $7 the day of the event. All proeeeds from the event will be donated to Christmas in April. Family members of all staff and faculty will be allowed to participate. All family members over the age or 18 need to complete the standard registration and insurance waiver for them. All r£'gistration/waiver forms can be obtained in the HecSports office and both will also be available at the event. 
Happy 



21st 

Birthday 
Love. 



Mom. Dad. 
1 Phoebe. Ralph. 
J Family & Friends 
~ 
What are your plans after graduation? 
~""""""'""""""'=~ 
Ever consider a year of 





SERVICE? 
Organization:The Good Shepherd Volunteers Opportunities: neighborhood centers, resi­dences for at-risk inner-city youth, alternative schools, alternative schools, assistance programs for homeless and/or undocumented women and families. The Focus: Community, sprituality, social justice, and simple living. Interested? Interviews available March 19th and 20th_ Contact Cara Happel at 1-888-668-6GSV, x717. or email Goodshepvol@aol.com to set up a time. 
Good Shepherd Volunteers-337 E.17th St.-New York, NY 10003 


.· 
Wednesday, March 18, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 

ALICE I ONE DAY I HOPE WE CAN BE .JUDGED BY OUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND NOT OUR GENDER. 
,. 
0 
0 
.... 
0 
<( 
® 
<n
,. 
<( 
c 
<(
...
... 
0 0 
<n 
I GOT MY FOURTEENTH 
PA.TENT TOOA.Y. 1'1"\ ON 1"\Y WAY TO A. LUNCH C>ANQUET lN 
1"\Y HONOR. 
48 Basque's kmgdom 
50 Blue Jay's song? 
52 Oppos1ng forces 53 Harder on the ears 54 "Archie" and "Cathy" 
55 Gowell together 
DOWN 
1 1945 Pulitzer poet 2Case 3 Molar maladies 
4 Is on the run 
\ 


36 Prepare to 46 Boring one change careers 47 Aspen 37 Came across as alternative 38 Win over 49 Horner's last 
40 Pikas' kin words 43 Signs up 51 Part of the ear 
Answers to any three clues in th1s puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420·5656 (75¢ per m1nute). 
Annual subscnpt1ons are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Listening to advice gets your further today than following your headstrong ways. Others are capable of coming up with good ideas, too. 
Taurus: You may be faced with disillusion or disap­pointment today. Even though you have been work­ing hard, it is still insuffi­cient. 
Gemini: Motivational speakers and surrealists alike can expect a wonderful day. Plans and visions fill your head, some of them strange, all of them possible. 
Cancer: You can only hide for so long before you have to come out and face the music. Something you have been dreading may not be so bad after all. Ignore your feelings and lead with your thoughts. 
Leo: Your chances for suc­cess are excellent, but so is the possibility of sabotaging your own efforts. Competition may lead to your downfall. Be satisfied with what you get today. 
Virgo: If you are stuck today, this may be a good time to help others. A change in the weather finds you improperly dressed. 
Libra: You know what you want as soon as you see it. If you are smart and brave, you wilL go forward and claim what you discover. 
Scorpio: The environment around you is a single living organism that does not appreciate your interfer­ence. Try not to make any ripples today, much less waves. 
Sagittarius: Once you get started on a topic close to your heart, you have a lot more to say than you real­ize. Your sudden expertise makes a positive impression on others. 
Caprkorn: Not everyone shares your sense of respon­sibility. This may be because not everyone is as invested as you a.re. You may have to change your expectations o others if you wish to work with them. 
Aquarius: Whether or not you started it, you are at the center of all the action today. IF you want attention, that's just what you will get. Your exploits take on a mythicllLl quality at this time. 
Pisces: You seek tranquili­ty in a world that is anything but tranquil. Unplug your­self from the system and find a place to meditate. Doing nothing for awhile is just what the doctor ordered . 

Wanted: ReJ?Otters, photographf~rs and editors. Join us. Be 011e of us. 
• 
-

ACROSS 1 Partner of burn &"Enough already I" 12 Garden tool 14 Fam1ly need 15 1959 h1t TV theme song 16 ConnectiOns 17 Semicircular recesses 18 Some trumpeters 20 No-goodnik 21 Last Pope to be sa1nted 22 Task 23 Objectionable 24 Switzerland's Bayof-­2& Lost cause 27 01g discovery 
Var. 29 As much 30 NBC slogan 32 "On the Sunny 
S1de of the Street" songwnter 
35 Charger 39 Hentage 40 Range rovers 41 Age 42 Accepts defeat 43 By accident, 
old-style 44 Formal 
accessory 45--Miss 46 Kind of pool 47 "Michel 

25 Vocal effect Strogoff" author 5Common contraction 
& Essential ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE beginning? 

1 Coffeehouse equ1pment 
8 It looks good on paper 
9 Bullish 
10 Gets rid of Dracula 
11 Product · checkers 
12 Put the finishing touches on 13 Turn over a new leaf 
19 Blown about 22 Swagger 23 850 Turbo, e.g. 25 Gorillas 26 Third-century 
invaders 28 1940's South 
African P.M. 29 Like Oil bert 31 Near the 
beginning 32 Minstrel troupe member 33 Core fluid 


THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION IS LOOKING FOFl PEER EDUCATORS FOR THE 1998-99 A.CADEMIC YEAR. 
PEER EDUCATORS ARE STUDENTS FROM A WIDE RANGE OF PERSPECTIVES, WHO VOLUNTEER THEIR TIME TO HELP SHAPE POSITIVE NORMS REGARDING ALCOHOUOTHER DRUGS AND RELATED ISSUES. 
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE .... PLEASE PICK UP AN APPLICATION AT THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION 1 MEZZANINE LEVEL LAFORTUNE OR CALL X7970 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
·­





SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, March 18, 1998 
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Notre Dame set to begin hom~e season today against Colgate 
-
Irish led by freshmen, veterans in three road victories to open second season 
Speci.tl to The ()bserver 
The women's lacrosse tnarn is following in the fool'>teps of its predecessors. It is trying to establish its dominance the lacrosse world, despite the fact that the program is only in its 
second year of existence. 
Freshman Maura Doyle also chipped in for 
Today, the Irish open three goals as well to improve Notre Dame's tlwir home season against record to 2-0. Colgate. aftpr an impressive The Irish finished their unbeatrn streak trip during which they post­against the University of Denver. Strong per.. ed thrnn straight wins. The formances from Callahan and the l'reshmen frnshnHm on the team havn allowed Notre Dame to manhandle DU, 19-5. Pstablislwd their presence The Irish led 9-3 at halftime and nevBr looked on tlw tPam by giving huge back, outscoring the Pioneers 10-2 in the sec­team. the freshmen destroyed the Aggies' defense. Courtney Calabrese scored three times and fellow freshma.n Lael O'Shaughnessy contributed two goals and an assist. Frr.shman Kathryn Perella donated three goals as well. 
Notrr. Dame followed up its UC Davis win by defeating Stanford, 16-13. Following up on her impressive outing against the Ca~:dinallast year, junior attack Kerry Callahan pounded in five goals to lead the team. In last yt•ar's win , Callahan accounted for six goals. This perfor­mance was her second highest scoring. 
Callahan's performance accentuated that of the freshman. Yet again, Pemlla and O'Shaughnessy combined for five goals. 
performanct~s this past Callahan WI'Pk. 
NotrP Danw kicked oil' the regular season ­expandPd to 15 games this year from the nine playPd last season -with a huge win owr UC Davis. 12-4. Tlw Irish mounted a potent oll'en­sive attack in the second half as they buried tlw Aggies with eight goals. Senior captain Mara GracP IPCl tlw Irish with three goals and two assists. 
While Grace's performance did lead the 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
ond half. 

Callahan led the team with three goals and two assists. Perella chalked up two goals and an assist. Senior Holly Micheal and Doyle each had a pair of goals. 
Colgate kicks off a three-gamr. homestand for Notre Dame which lasts into next week. The Irish are looking to ride their success coming oil the successful road trip. Already, Notre Damn is oil' to a better start than last year. 


Irish split spring break matches 
By TIM CASEY Spons Writer 
The wom1~n's tennis team had a busy spring break, n~cording a 2-2 reeord while traveling to Las Vegas and Texas to compete against SOmP of the nation's elite teams. lnrluded in the record were victorins over Northwestern and UNLV and losses to top-ranked Florida and the 7th-ranked Texas I,onghorns. 
The Irish wern very impres­sive in tlwir match with mid­WPStPrn rival NorthwPstern. Fiw of tlw six singlt~s players nwordPd virtories, as did all thri'P doubles tl~ams. Tlw dos­est match of tlw day was at first singles where Notre 
I> amP's .I Pn nife r II all pul11~d out a thrPe-snt marathon win against KatlH~rinP Nasser 2-6, (J-4, 7-5. Michelli~ Dasso, Marisa Velasco, Tiffany (;ates, and KPlly Zalinski all won tlwir singles matches in straight sets, propelling ND to an H-1 victory. 
On Tuesday, the Irish trav­

The Observer/John Daily 
eled to Las Vegas to take on 

Strong singles play carried the Irish to victories over Northwestern and UNLV during the break, but No. 1 

UNLV, and came away with a 

Florida and seventh-ranked Texas got the better of the Irish. 
7-2 victory over the 36th­ranked team in the country. Goude. llall again provided a long Dasso and Gates won their match before defeating Susie matches in straight sets, with 
Kocsis h-7, 6-2, 6-3. Third sin­Dasso defeating Gee Gee gles player Marisa Velasco 
Garvin 6-2, 6-2 and Gates also lost the first set of her 
beating Lisa Annebro 6-1, 6-4. match before senring a 4-6, 7­
The first doubles team of 5, 7-5 win against Veronica 
Gates and Hall recorded their 


®w 
vs. Purdue Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
~ 
vs. Rutgers Saturday, I p.m. 
at Toledo 
~w 
Saturday, 12 p.m. 
at Providence~: Satuday, 12 p.m. 

most impressive victory of the year, defeating the top team from UNLV, who are ranked 13th in the coumry by an 8-3 margin. 
Notre Dame swept all the doubles matches in their wins over Northwestern and UNLV. 
Fencing 


Observer F1le Photo Having scored five goals against Stanford and three against Denver, junior Kerry Callahan (center) will lead the Irish against Colgate this afternoon. 
NCAA Championships • at Angela Athletic Facility Thursday though Saturday 
Track at Wabash College 

s~ 
···~ Saturday, TBA "Our doubles are getting bet­ter. We swept Northwestern and UNLV and even in our two losses, the doubles match­es were close," said head coach Jay Louderback. 
see TENNIS/ page 21 
a) 
• BASEBAll 

Brock, Lidge receive Big East honors 
Special to the Observer 

The  Notre  Damn  basdJall  
team has  produced  two  hon­ 
orees  in  the  first  Big  East  

Conference WIH~kly awards, as senior shortstop .1 ..1. Brock has been named Big East player of tlw week while junior righthahder Brad Lidge was nanwd tlw Big East pitdwr of tlw w1~ek. 
Brock lml tlw Irish last W('Pk to a 3-I rncord in games played in tiH~ Irish Spring Bast~ball Classic at Wolff Stadium in San Antonio, Texas. lin paced tlw Irish during tlw w1~ek with a .500 batting av1~ragn (1-l-for-1(,), two honw runs, six IWI and six runs scowd. lin also had a dou­bll~. thrnn walks. a stolen base and just orw striktHJUl. 
Brock hit 5-l'or-'J with two outs while collocting l'ivn of his six HBI with two outs. lie went 2­for-5 with four HBI. three runs, a walk and a two-run honw run in 15:4 win over BYU and 2-for­3 with a walk, solo home run and two runs in the 4-3 win over Southern Illinois. 
Lidgn tossed snven shutout innings in the H-0 win over Southwest Texas State, with sevon strikeouts, five hits allowed and no walks. lie faced just five batters over the seven­inning minimum while retiring the leadoff' batter in each inning. 
• Vanderbilt knocks Wake from NIT 
~ 

see page 19
••riJ • Jordan leads Bulls to victory in Indy 
see page 15 
~ 







