
; £U 
• Attorney General Janet Reno ordered a 
• U.S. officials may have been mistaken when they 
Thursday

preliminary investigation into whether or not 
thought they discovered compounds revealing the 
Vice President Gore lied to investigators 
production of chemical weapons in Sudan. 
AUGUST 27,
about contributions. 

News • 3 
News • 6 
1998 


THE 

VOL XXXII NO.4 

Cavanaugh fall victim is 'optimistic' 
By TOM ENRIGHT News Writer 
Pormer Cavanaugh Hall resident and 19!JH alumna Katie McCoyd, who fpll down an elevator shaft shortly before graduation last spring, has recovered and begun her career at DC systems. 
McCoyd fell about 30 feet down the shaft aftnr trying to jump out of tlw elevator. which stopped five l'o0t abovr th('1 second t1oor. As she tried to climb out backwards, she swung undN the car into the shaft. Al'ttll' landing in the basement, McCoyd was transported to St. Joseph llospital and later to Loyola University Medieal Center in Chieago for more care. She suf­fered ll broken pelvis and under­went surgery. 
The story, which was first pub­lished in the senior issue of The Observer last May. reported that NotrH Dame ollidals were unsure whether she would be able to attend graduation. McCoyd recov­fll'tld enough to attend the ceremo­ny but had to walk with crutches for the next lO weeks. She must still attend physical therapy three times a week. 
"Things are going well," she said. ''I'm optimistic." 
Caught on tape ... 
peace.

Television crews from WXYZ Detroit filmed Notre Dame juniors as "Maybe the Omagh bomb will
they waited in line to buy football tickets. The footage will be aired in Detroit to preview the Notre Dame v. Michigan season opener. be the last kind of that traves-
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

• STUDENT SENATE 

Kirk addresses summer improvements 
By TIM LOGAN 
Assistant News Editor 

Topics ranged from the statue of St. Ed to commencement speakers as Vice President for Student Affairs Bill Kirk addressed the Student Senate last night. 
Kirk focused primarily on residence hall renovations, Saferide expansion and cable access in dorm rooms. 
"I don't know of any halls scheduled !for wnovationl in the next year," said Kirk. who noted that the two-summer restoration of Morrissey Hall was more extensive and more costly than had been anticipated. The project used up a large portion or the money whkh is allocated each year for major residence hall reno­vations. 
While Kirk was unable to specify which dorm would be renovated next, he did point out that all are continuously main­tained. 
"A lot of renovation in residence halls we don't see. Other than things working the way they should be, you wouldn't know about them," he said. 
Kirk also told the Senate that laundry machines were installed in Keenan and Stanford halls over the summer, and that he expected machines would be installed during Christmas break in one of the four men's dorms that still lack service. 
Kirk thanked student leaders for their work on expanding Saferide service to Thursday nights, and pointed out that the waiver which students signed at enroll­ment is primarily intended to give warn­ing and inform them of what responsibili­ties they bear in using the service. 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Cease-fire halts Irish violence 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Associate News Editor 
In response to the tragic ear bombing in llmagh, Northern Ireland which killed 28 people, the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) announced a cease-tire. That announcement came just minutes before a 
national. inter-denom­inational moment of silence was planned in memory of the vietims. 
Another group, the Heal I.H.A., claimed responsibility for the attack. but joined the INLA in the decision to stop the violence. 
"In the aftermath of the Omagh bombing, there were two ways 
to go," said Professor Seamus Deane. the Keough Chair in Irish Studies. He explained that the loyalists eould either decide to kill in revenge and perpetuate the violence or that the groups could decide to call a cease fire and work for 
"It lets people know that t h e y assume certain risks in certain activities. Transpor­tation is inherently risky." said Kirk. II e acknowl­edged that the waiver would not hold up in a court of law if the University was at fault in an accident. 
With the recent installation of cable television in dorm rooms at S a i n t Mary's, several senators questioned whether similar service would come to Notre Dame. 
"If they have it, why can't we? We have a lot more money than they do," asked Morrissey senator Ryan Constantini. 

'IN THE AFTERMATH OF THE OMAGH felt that the bombings did nothing to weaken
BOMBING THERE WERE TWO WAYS TO GO 
the treaty, as it was ••• MAYBE (IT] WILL BE THE LAST OF THAT 
lacking real strength TRAVESTY.' from the start. 
ty," said Deane, who pointed out that car bombing violence is not only atrocious but arbi­trary. 
The Continuity l.ltA. is now the only order which has yet to call for a cease-fire. 
Deane did not think the fail­ure of the Continuity l.ll.A. to join the other groups would 
"Hight now there is such a disgust at the SEAMUS DEANE carnage at Omagh," he KJiUIIG/1 Cll!t/11 JN /1!1.'>"11 Snmws noted. This disgust 
detract from the impact of their movement. 
"I think the Continuity l.ltA. has probably lost so mueh political power and has become so isolated that they are politi­cally weakened to the point of perdition," he explained. 
The bombing, which was the deadliest single sectarian assault in 29 years of violence, 
Several years ago, University adminis­trators considered the addition of cable, but decided against it because of the cost. 
"It was clearly an expensive proposi­
see SENATE I page 4 
occurred on the heels of the Northern Ireland Peace Agreement which was signed this spring. The historic agree­ment was approved by the majority of voters in both British Northern Ireland and the Irish Hepublic but left many wondering what effect it could really have. 
"The treaty was 
always a pretty frail 
affair," said Deane. lie 
has led to a mandate to get a resolution to the three decades of violence. Deane felt that the bomb served to strengthen Gerry Adams and the Sinn Fein political party, as they are now mueh more securely embedded in the Northern Irish scene. This strength has put David Trimble 
see IRELAND I page 4 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



The Rush 
The starved and exhausted crowd pulsed like a single being; eyes weary and hands outstretched they called to the guards for mercy. Distraught voices hovered above the 
filthy crush of bodies, words of anguish rising at each passing hour: "Let us in! Please, let us 
. ,,
m. 
A scene from revolu­tionary France or cold­war Russia, perhaps? 
Try the student foot­

ball season ticket line.  Heather MacKenzie  
Yesterday.  Assisram Managing Ediror  
If you have been  a  

slacker like me for the past couple of years and haven't experienced the joy of buying football tickets for yourself and about 4 7 of your closest friends, let me summarize. You find the people in your group whom you like the least and get them to start camping out in front of the JACC at noon the day before you need to buy tickets. You leave them to suffer there as long as possible, preferably all night, so they can establish a place in line when the rush begins on the doors at about 5 
a.m. At this point, you replace their sloppy­drunk selves with fresh replacements to guarantee you have someone coherent enough to handle the 4 7 applications, IDs and wads of cash needed to actually get your tickets. You also pick people who are cun­ning enough to schmooze with the guards, upping the chances of sneaking inside earlier than the people who refer to security officers as "Those fat guys in the front of the line." 
Then the waiting begins. 
I can't think of anything that students here get more worked up about than getting their football tickets. It was a mob scene, with people ready to attack their brethren just to keep place in line. People came home with bruises and smashed toes, war wounds for the fight to be in Section 28 instead of Section 29. There was this one kid, hereafter known as "Green Shirt," who had the unfor­tunate luck to get inside the doors before a large, loud group ahead of him. He fled with cries of, "Green shirt, you're going down!" and ''I'm going to search every Dog Book until I find out who you are! I never forget a face!" If I were him, I'd be scared. These guys looked like they meant it. 
I do realize we all attend the University of Notre Dame, where football is about as close to Godliness as being clean is. Even when we just about missed a spot in the AP Top 25. But yesterday, in the middle of the mess of camping out and waiting in an impossibly slow and tedious line so I could plunk down 100 bucks for a few bits of colored paper, I discovered a few things about what really matters to the students at Notre Dame. 
My theology professor was greeted with apathetic, non-committal answers when he asked whether or not the US should have dropped bombs in the Middle East, but ask anyone about their tickets and they'll tell you how they suffered for their seats. About 30 token people are usually around to rally for homosexual rights or environmental con­sciousness, but they'll sleep on concrete all night with their hair in old pizza and beer, just to watch a game that some would say this University isn't even very good at. 
I was there, too. Maybe we should all start to think about what really matters. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author ..md not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Too;w's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Rebecca Ovel  
Tom Enright  Production  
Sports  Kathleen Lopez  
Joe Cavato  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Liz Lang  
Eddie Llull  
Scene  
Emmett Malloy  
Dominic Caruso  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

------------~---------~------­

The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, August 27, 1998 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
State attorney general combats use of 'date rape' drug 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Because of the growing popularity of GHB as both a recreational and "date rape" drug, the state attorney general is taking action. 
Attorney General Mike Fisher has petitioned to make Gl-IB illegal in Pennsylvania after two Penn State stu­dents were admitted to the hospital with life-threatening symptoms in July. 
Gl-IB, which can be made at home and stands for Gamma-1-Iydroxybut yric Acid, is often used recreationally because it can cause euphoria. But the exact dosage to reach euphoria with­out risking death is unclear, said Barbara Petito, deputy press secretary for Fisher. 
"The threshold between getting high and overdosing is very thin," Petito said. 
The Penn State students took overly large doses of GHB in hopes of getting "high," said Lt. Diane Conrad of the State College Police Department. Both were on respirators for several days and were in near-death condition, Conrad added. 
"The incidents at Penn State were two of the more serious ones," Fisher said. 
'ITIS A DRUG THAT HAS BEEN ABUSED AND CAN HAVE DAN­GEROUS CONSEQUENCES. WE NEED TO TAKE STEPS TO MAKE SURE IT'S 
MADE ILLEGAL.' 
MIKE FISHER AITORNEY GENERAL 
This instance of GHB abuse had a major impact on Fisher's decision to petition the state Department of Health to make it illegal, he added. 

Current state law does not prohibit the possession, manufacture or distrib­ution of Gl-IB. If the petition is approved, GHB would be classified as a Schedule I controlled substance, along with heroin and several other­drugs, Petito said. 
"It is a drug that has been abused and can have dangerous conse­quences. We need to take steps to make sure it's made illegal," Fisher said. 
Gl-IB was banned by the Food and Drug Administration in 1990 after a determination that the drug had no medicinal uses, Petito said. 
So far this year, there have been 17 reported cases of GHB use in Pennsylvania alone, Fisher said. There were more than 600 reported cases in 1996, he added. 
No cases of Gl-IB use have been reported to University Health Services, director Margaret Spear said last month. 
• UNIVERSITY OF IOWA 
Fraternities ban alcohol at parties 
AMES, Iowa 

University of Iowa fraternities have decided to go dry this year, but Iowa State officials say a switch to sub­stance-free Greek housing is not in the plans for this year. U of I's Inter-Fraternity Council voted unanimously to ban the serving of alcoholic beverages at fraternity-sponsored parties held at chapter housing facilities. Effective Aug. 1, the U of I dry policy allows members who are over 21 years of age to possess and consume alcohol in their rooms if minors are not present. "[Members] need to be in their rooms, door closed, not in any common areas [if con­suming alcohol]," said Mary Ellen Gillespie, assistant director of student life at the U of I. The policy also allows the chapters to sponsor parties with alcohol at off-campus locations, such as restaurants or bars. The decision to go dry was made voluntarily by stud ent members of the Inter-Fraternity Council at U of I, Gillespie said. 
• WESTERN I{ENTUCKY UNIVERSITY Bookstore wars heat up online 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. 

With the installation of new electric scanners, book buying at the Western Kentucky University Bookstore has never been so fast. Lines snaking around the third floor of the Downing University Center are moving con­siderably faster. And with today's World Wide Web wiz­ards, there may soon be no wait at all. The advent of online booksellers like Amazon.com are radically changing the way students -and the world -buy books. "The online discounts are much greater," said Ben Boyd, a spokesman for Barnes & Noble's Web site, barnesandnoble.com. Paul McDougal, director of the College Heights Bookstore, said he isn't sitting idly by while a chunk of the bookstore market goes online. By this time in January, he hopes to have all the book­store's wares available on the Web. Armed with credit cards, students could complete their book shopping at 3 
a.m. if they like. 
• INDIANA UNIVERSITY 

University battles computer spam 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
IU stepped up its war against spam during the summer. The Office of the Vice President for Information Technology isn't battling the well-known processed meat, but rather e-mail spam. Spam is defined as commercial or bulk e-mail sent unsolicited. "It's the bulk mailers we're really going after," said Scott Hutton, lead security engi­neer for the Information Technology Security Office. In June and July, IU's e-mail accounts were inundated with spam mailings, said Mark Bruhn, the office's technology policy officer. One company in particular, WorldNet Marketing, sent a large amount of e-mail, Bruhn said. "It was kind of ironic, actually," he said. "We were getting unsolicited mail about a product about unsolicited mail." University Information Technology Services was receiving about 15 complaints per day, and the extra mail was putting a strain on the network's resources. 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 

Court rules on illegal club funding 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
A federal court ruled earlier this month that a 
Wisconsin state university violated the U.S. Constitution 
by forcing its students to help Iinance on-campus clubs 
that have political, religious or ideological agendas. But 
because University of Arizona student groups are funded 
differently than those at most state schools, any similar 
cases might not stand in Arizona courts. The Seventh 
District Appeals Court affirmed a lower court decision 
Aug. 10 that the University of Wisconsin-Madison could 
not require students to pay the activity fees. "The univer­
sity was forcing students to financially support private 
organizations that they did not agree with," said Jordan 
Lorence, a lawyer who argued the case before the court. 
While the Associated Students of the UA does give money 
to political and religious organizations, about $265,000 of 
its nearly $800,000 1997-98 budget came from mandato­
ry student fees. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 

Thursday (f 83 65 Friday ~82 64 
Saturday Sunday 
:.{ 

Baltimore 92 74 Denver 54 NewYor1< 89 72 Boise 86 55 Honolulu 86 77 Phoenix 103 87
4,~,~8~8 i) ~ u 
Chicago 85 61 Juneau 53 51 St. Louis 88 67
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 84 66 Los Angeles75 70 Trenton 86 71
Via Associated Press GraphicsNat 


-----------------~--­

--·-~-------~-----------~ 
Thursday, August 27, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 3 


Reno extends inquiry to Gore and fund-raising 
By DAVID JOHNSTON 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Attorney General Janet Heno advanced a significant step closnr on toward dneiding whethnr to ask for an indnpen­drmt prosecutor to invJ'itigate Vice l'rnsidnnt AI Gore's roln in f'und raising for the 1<JIJ(J cam­paign. government officials said. 
Hnno ordernd a 90-day pre­liminary inquiry into whether Gore lied to investigators last year when he was initially interviewed about his tele­phone solicitations to donors from the White llouse, the of!i­cials said. 
The investigation into Gore's f'und-raising calls was re­operwd af'ter the White llouse produced a 1995 memo last month that suggnsted Goro and other Dnmocratic campaign officials discussed how the money he solicited would be used. 
In addition. investigators in rncnnt days have interviewed several of the meeting's partic­ipants. who have indicated that (;ore could have known that some of his fund raising would lw funneled into direct re-election efforts -which could bn illegal, the officials said. 
If Heno determines at the end of' the three-month investi­gation that there is evidence that Gore misled investigators, sh11 will br, obligated under the independent counsel law to refer the case to an outside prosecutor. 
Gore's lawyer said on Wednesday that Gore had done nothing wrong. 
"The vice president volun­late judges who actually select tered by an inquiry by another absolved Gore of wrongdoing 
teered to be interviewed. and independent counsels. But the independent counsel, Kenneth in connection with the calls. At 
he has been interviewed Justice Department did not Starr, into Clinton's relation­the time, she based her deci­
twice," said the lawyer, James announce its action on ship with Monica Lewinsky, a sion on what she said was the 
Neal. "I am totally satisfied Wednesday, awaiting an former White House intern. lack of any suggesting that the 
that Vice President Gore has authorization from the judges. But unlike the inquiry into vice president knew his solici­
fully, completely and honestly Nevertheless, Republicans Clinton's conduct, an indepen­tations raised "hard money." 
answered every question asked attacked Reno for focusing on dent prosecutor investigating Justice Department investi­
of him, and I am confident that only one of the numerous alle­even a seemingly narrow issue gators have rajsed additional 
when this investigation is com­gations of wrongdoing and for like the vice president's phone questions about Gore's state­
pleted. the Department of setting up a timetable that will calls could lead to a wider ments in part because of newly 
Justice will reach the same delay a decision until examination of alleged cam­discovered handwritten nota­
conclusion." November, after this year's paign finance abuses. Such an tions on a Nov. 21, 1995, 
Reno has n~ached this stage congressional elections. inquiry could take years, White llouse memorandum 
before in deliberating whether "An independent counsel is a exacting a political and legal that suggests ore may not have 
to seek an inde-toll in an embar­been candid about the phone 
pendent prosecu­rassing, costly calls. 
tor to examine 'lAM TOTALLY SATISFIED THAT VICE PRFSIDENT GORE and disruptive Several copies of the under­Gore's fund rais­process . that lying campaign budget Jllemo
HAS FULLY, COMPLETELY, AND HONESTLY ANSWERED
ing. Some offi­could distract the had been provided to prosecu­cials doubted that EVERY QUESTION ASKED OF HIM, AND J AM CONFIDENT Democratic Party tors. But the copy with an her decision on through the 2000 aide's handwritten notations
THAT WHEN THIS INVESTIGATION IS COMPLETED, THE
Wednesday indi­presidential was not turned over by the 
cated that she DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE WILL REACH THE SAME CON-campaign. White House until last month, 
would ultimately CLUSION.' At issue is nearly 18 months after the 
seek an indepen-whether Gore Justice Department first sub­
dent prosecutor knew that any of poenaed campaign-related 
into campaign JAMES NEAL the 46 fund-rais­material. 
finance abuses -Ano/INEY FOR THE VICE PRHSDIENT ing calls he made The notations, written during 
suggesting that from the vice a White House meeting, also 
the evidence against Gore is must for the entire campaign president's office raised money held on Nov. 21, indicate that 
insubstantial. Others said that fund-raising investigation," that in part was diverted to participants, who included 
Reno was unpredictable on said Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., "hard money" accounts at the Gore, discussed diverting part 
such issues and could go for­who is chairman of the Democratic National of the contributions into hard 
ward with the appointment. Government Reform and Committee, which are subject money accounts. The notes 
The issue has been a con­Oversight Committee. to federal election law and can were written by David Strauss, 
tentious one. For more than 18 Earlier this month, the panel be used to directly support the vice president's deputy 
months, the attorney general voted to cite Reno with con­candidates like Clinton and chief of staff, and were 
has refused to request that an tempt for refusing to provide Gore. released publicly last week. 
independent counsel look into lawmakers with a memo from Last year, Reno said that if Among the participants at 
campaign finance irregulari­Charles La Bella, the former Gore had used his White House the meeting were Clinton; 
ties in the face of angry head of her campaign finance office to raise hard money, the Donald Fowler, the former 
Republican denunciations that unit, recommending the telephone calls could be con­Democratic National 
she has covered up for the appointment of an independent sidered a violation of a federal Committee chairman, and 
White House and has shielded prosecutor. law barring government offi­Marvin. Rosen, the former 
President Clinton and Gore But to Democrats her action cials from raising political Democratic Committee finance 
from possible prosecution. once again raised the specter funds on federal property. chairman. Gore appeared to be 
Reno's decision on of yet another independent But last December, when an enthusiastic participant, 
Wednesday was contained in a prosecutor who could be Reno formally rejected refer­and was quoted by his aide as 
formal notification to the appointed to investigate an ring the phone call issue to an saying "count me in on the · three-member panel of appel-administration already bat-independent prosecutor, she calls." 
Class of 1999... 
·THURSDAY • AUGUST 27 
~ • Jom us tor!cdolmus:ic; dancing and ­·• ·~ back to school prices! c;t, • • • f!J • +~ ~· 990 Specials f:J _ • • 
• 99¢ Cover with Student ID ($5 without) 
• 
••.. 
www.Meplaces.co~/h~lant222 S.IVIICmGAliST.• SOUTH BEND. (219) 234-52 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 27, 1998 
are they not obligated to attend by a public backlash should was much of a parallel to be [the] retreats and workshops?" they feel that Unionists were drawn between the type of ter­
Senate Ireland 
continued from page 1 
tion," said Kirk. "The wisdom of that decision is debatable ... and I wish we'd come up with a dif­ferent decision." 
However. he pointed to a sur­vey of students at the time of the previous proposal which indicated a lack of support for cable installation if it came at a significant cost. 
Installing cable today would cost "millions," Kirk estimated, and the money would likely come in the form of a small increase in room and board costs rather than a pay-by-use system which is "something the University is not interested in doing," Kirk continued. 
Senators thanked Kirk as well as the department of Facilities Operations for the work on campus improvements over the summer. 
'The campus looks great, a lot of good things were done over the summer," said Matt Mamak. chair of the Residence Life com­mittee. 
In other Senate news: 
• The body brought up their resolution to increase student involvement in the commence­ment speaker process, but chose to send it back to the Academic Affairs committee for further adjustment. 
The resolution. which was proposed last spring during the controversy over the selection of Indiana Lt. Governor Joe Kernan, calls for better execu­tion of the selection process as it is currently designed. 
"This resolution says that we support the current mGchanism and we expect the [junior] class officers to do their part and the administration to do their part," said senator Constantini. The present system calls on the junior class presidents to make recommendations to University officials, who then select and invite a speaker. 
During the debate, the Senate agreed to strike ·a statement in the resolution which called for a speaker "with a national repu­tation." 
The motion was sent back to the Academic Affairs committee for some flnal adjustment. and will likely come up for a final vote at next week's meeting. 
• Pasquerilla East senator Stephany Foster, who chairs the Multicultural Affairs committee, voiced concern about the lack of representation by The Observer at recent prejudice reduction workshops held for campus media and student leaders. 
"In the last year there has been a series of complaints about prejudice within The Observer." said Foster. "Why 
MATUBA ~ Japanese Restaurant ~ 
Authentic, Healthy Delic1ous, The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You're very special to Matuba. We would like to Invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din­ing room and sushi bar-taste our shrimp tam­pur, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon, teriyaki chicken, sushi, sashimi and vegetable sushi or man other traditional Ja anese dishes. 
Ll.n:hSpecial-$5.95 liTB'SpaH14!E 
1 -Beef Negimaki 1 -Teriyaki Chicken 2 -Egg Rolls 1 -Tuna Sushi 2 -Fried Rice 1 -White Fish Sushi 4 pc -California Rolls 1 -Salmon Sushi 4 pc-Cucumber Rolls 4 pc-Cal~omia Rolls 1 -Miso Soup 8 pc -Tuna Rolls 1 -Salad 1 -Steam Rice plus Japanese 1 -Miso Soup Green Tea 1 -Salad May change weekly plus Japarese 
Green Tea Lunch Dinner Sushi(13 pieces) $6.95 $8.95 Sushi (14 pioces $7.95 $11.95 Sushi vag. chicken (12 pc) $6.95 $6.95 Sushi no raw fish (13 pc) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi (16 pioces) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi Deluxe (21 pioces) $16.95 $16.95 Sushi & Sasllimi combo $18.95 $18.95 plus MisO Soup Lunch:11-2 Mon-Fri Dinner: 5-9 Mon-Thurs,S-10 Fri-Sat 251-0674 Fish-Beef-Chicken 2930 E. McKinle Ave. South Bend IN 
Kirk explained that The Observer is not funded by Student Activities, but rather through the $6 fee assessed to each student by the Office of Student Affairs. Therefore, the paper is independent. and not accountable to the Office of Student Activities. 
Kirk suggested the Senate take it upon themselves to address the issue with The Observer if they thought it war­ranted further attention. 
• Student body vice president Andrea Selak announced the Office of the President's plans for the coming semester, which include expanding Saferide, improving student-faculty rela­tions and working with the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs to host multicultural/diversity aware­ness workshops in residence halls. 
Student Government plans to create a lunch program in which students and professors within departments and col­leges can meet and get to know each other. They also hope to revive the Hall Fellows pro­gram, which pairs each resi­dence hall with a certain profes­sor in an effort to improve stu­dent-faculty relations. 
continued from page 1 
and the Loyalists into an awk­ward position as they are now forced to respond to Sinn Fein. 
"Unionists cannot refuse to talk to Sinn Fein because when they weaken .the political process they strengthen the cause of the militant." he said. If leaders do not do everything in their power to promote polit­ical structures which will facili­tate a true solution to the trou­bles, a return to violence would be imminent. 
According to Deane, Loyalists must now either get the politi­cal process moving and deal with issues that arise with Sinn Fein or suffer a continuing decline in strength. That decline would be brought about detracting from the political peace process. 
As to whether the existence of the various groups on each side helps or hinders the process. Deane suggested that it was not the existence of the separate groups but the hostili­ty of the militant groups that sets the process back. 
"I think their hostility has to some degree weakened the political process," said Deane. He explained that while the degree of support that the more extreme groups receive is diffi­cult to determine, the support stems from areas like South Armagh and Fermanagh where there has been steady belief in the sentiment that the peace process represents a surren­der. 
Deane did not feel that there rorist violence that has become synonymous with Northern Ireland and that to which the United States has recently been exposed. 


He did note, however, that what can be taken from the Northern Irish experience is that it is "far better to address the root of the problem than to combat it with increased resis­tance."·. 
This sentiment seems to agree with the Sinn Pein posi­tion which opposes the recent impetus in both the Dail in the Republic of Ireland and the House of Commons in Britain to enact measures to crack down on paramilitaries on both sides of the border. 
The Irish Times contributed to this report. 

Got News? l-5323 

IN CONCERT BLESSID UNION OF SOULS 

SATURDAY· SEPTEMBER12 • 8 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM· SAINTMARY'S COLLEGE
. 

TICKffi ON SALE ATTHE SAINT MARYS COLLEGE BOX OFFICE IN OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, OPEN 9 AM-5 PM, MONDAY-FRIDAY. CREDITCARD ORDERS BY PHONE: 
219/284-4626 

ADULTTICKffi ALSO AVAILABLE ATALL~~~. TICKET CENTERS INCLUDING ORBITAND L.S. AYRES. TO CHARGE TICKffi BY PHONE, CALL 
2191272-7979 
Saini Ma•r'• Colle~e~

To purchase online: http://www.ticketmaster.com 

MOf#t,f'R_/ 
THE ARTS NOTRE DAME, IN 


Thursday, August 27, 1998 
•· 
Chinese take blame for floods 
BEIJING 

Chargns are mounting that bad policios and oflidal nngleet have worsenod this sum­nwr's disastrous llooding in China. and the governnwnt has mad!' tlw unusual admis­sion that its land use mistakns are partly to blamP and announct'd swneping policy changes. Of'licials havo d(~arly been shocked by tlw vast srale of damage in sou thorn and nortlwastern China, wlwrn snven~ llooding JWrsists. This year's rains havn been torren­tial. hut not. as gmat as in sonw years when tlu• extent of flooding and tho damagos wero less. In tlw last ('(~W wm~ks, tlw of'licial press has carried increasingly sharp articles and editorials on tlw harmful niTnets of clnar­rutting timlH'r along llw upp(•r rnachns of thP YangtzP Hiver. for example, and the human invasion of vital wntlands along tlw rivPr's roursn. 
Diplomats claim Sudan helped Iraq after Gulf war 
Kl lAHTOUM. Sudan 

;\t tlw end of the Persian Gull' war in 1991, wlwn Sudan was one of Iraq's fnw remaining friends in tlw world, the governmnnt hero strurk a bargain with Baghdad. ((n·eign diplo­mats and Sudanese said Tuesday. In return for Iraqi financial lwlp and assistanc(~ by mili­tary and ('ivilian nxpPrts. Sudan agrnPd to allow its installations to lw US(~d by Iraqi tPch­nirians l'or st«~ps in the produr.tion of rlwmical weapons. tlwy said. Tlw d(~al was bnnnlieial to both countri(~S. Struggling Sudan got eeonom­ir lwlp. and Iraq was able to move ahead with rlwmiral wPapons litr away !hun the gaw of 
U.N. WPapons inspectors. "Sudan is a wondnr­ful placn Lo do socrntivn things," a former Sudmwso govmnmonl ollkial said. J\ diplomat lwn~ said tho Clinton administration had known about tho Iraqi dwmical wnapons artivities lwrn for sonw limn. 
Subway mosquitoes evolve 
LONDON, England 

Mosquitoes that used to feed· on birds havn acquired a taste for human blood after decades of living in the London sub­way system, scientists say. The mosquito population that moved into the London Undm·ground tunnels when they were dug I 00 years ago have slowly evolved, said Kate Byrne, a population gfmeticist at London University's Queen Mary and w(~Stliold Colloge. Unable to lind birds, the mosquitoes began prnying on rats, mice and humans. Now they prefer the blood of mammals, Ms. Byrne said Wednesday. Sdnntists say the underground mosquitoes bnhave so differently from their above­ground relatives that attempts to mate the two failed. "They look to be completely dis­tinet from each othnr," Ms. Byrne said. 
S&P 500: 
Composite 


1084.19 Volume:

8523.35 -H.67 682,500,000 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
C()M!JANY I"ICKf!J '11! t IL\:Std S CjA(N I'JIII"J. 
t .AI'~li.Ail MllH.J'liAloE O~oHl +il.71 +.HI2~ .Li750 INI'UT/OUTI'l! r INC 1\l -t-22.67 +2.1250 I 1.50011 JIJHJOJ\E tiHOUI' J\(jl. •IS.ho +.HI25 b.OOOO ~All \1EDIA liROUI' NM +14.09 +.h250 S.Oo2S Ill IUtill'\1';\-,\DR. DER +9.52 +.J750 UI2S 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

\ r IOliN ~NITS SIK . iO.\ll -H.OOOO 1H.5000 Slli'HlMIR U:<OIMARI LINR ·2K iJ -1.12.111 l.R7SO 'i.\ff.J)(IN\JlRA SMV/A -25 00 ·2.KI2.S K.4.!7$ VIMI'UA:<1MM-Al>R VII' ·22.KI -4.5625 I.S.~.I7S VAl Uf CITY STOR! V<:ll -\ILS-1 -l.lK75 1.1.\250 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Hurricane Bonnie strikes Carolinas 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 

WILMINGTON, N.C. 
Taking one of history's busiest storm routes, Hurricane Bonnie blew into the Carolinas with stinging rain and howl­ing, 115 mph winds Wednesday, then slowed to a crawl that could mean a prolonged drenching. 
Arriving hours after a half-million people had fled inland, the storm swamped roads, knocked out power to at least 240,000 and peeled a roof from a hospital. There were no immediate reports of deaths or serious injuries. 
There also wnre preliminary reports that the storm crnated new inlets that cut two small barrinr islands in half. authorilins said. 
Andrew Tawes was among the few who remained on North Carolina's Outer Banks as the storm hit, staying to look after his house and cabinet shop. His wife and two children fled the island to stay with relatives. 
''I've got thousands of dollars in wood and matm·ials in my shop right now," he said. ''I'm scared to death." 
The storm reached land early in the afternoon at Cape Fear, near the South Carolina state line. It slowed from 16 mph to 8 mph as it eased ashore, and fot'!H'astnt·s said it could linger over North Carolina lilr as much a day and bring 15 to 20 inches of rain. 
As of 7::30 p.m.. Bonnie was centered near Wrightsville Beach. about 20 miles north of Cape Fear. Four to five inches of rain already had fallen in the Wilmington area by midal'tnrnoon. 
"I suspect it's going to be raining very heavy for a long period of time and as it winds down," said Jerry Jarrell, director of tho National Hurricane Center in Miami. 
The storm was expected eventually to veer to the northeast and move out to sea near the NorthCarolina-Virginia line. 
Officials said Bonnie could raise water levels in some areas by 9 to 11 feet. Tide levels 9 feet above normal were reported in some areas Wednesday afternoon. 
"We're not talking about one burst of water, like a tidal wave," said state Public Safety Secretary Hichard Moore said. "We're talking about the water being backed up in our sounds by the winds for as long as the hurricane lingers." 
Owners of a North Carolina business board up windows in preparation for the brutal winds and rain brought on by Hurricane Bonnie. 
The Carolina coast has had countless lowed by storms. With its paee and hurricanes, including three in 1955 vast, 400-mile breadth, Bonnie could alone that killed more than 200 people, inllict more damage than Fran. the last because it juts out into the Atlantic major hurricane to hit the North near the Gulf Stream, a route often fol-Carolina coast. 

• SERBIA 





Cannon fire kills relief workers 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 

IJEVO 
Three people bringing supplies to refugees have been killed by cannon fire from a police vehicle in what appears to be the most serious govern· ment effort yet to harass aid workers. 
The three, all ethnic Albanians working for the Mother Teresa relief org<mization, were killed on Monday as they rode on tractors pulling wagons loaded with supplies for some of the ethnic refugees who have fled a gov~ ernment military offensive in the province of Kosovo. The number of refugees has grown to upwards of 300,000. 
The wagons were piled with food and white boxes with large blue circles bearing the name of tho donor, Doctors of the World. Still, a government state­ment explained the shooting by saying the police in an armored personnel car­rier could not see what was in the wag· ons and became suspicious and opened frre. 
The attaek occurred in an open field at mid afternoon in the village of Vlaskl Drcnovac, about two miles from here. The three slain aid workers were local representatives of the Mother Teresa group, which handles distribution of most international refugee supplies. 
The attack seems to confirm the sus­picions of many relief' workers that the government has decided tomake dis­tributing supplies more dangerous, both for the aid worket·s and the refugees. 
The Yugoslav government's military o!l'ensive, which began five weeks ago, has hurt the rebols, buthrought disas~ ter to civilians. International relief workers estimate as many as 20,000 homes have beendamaged or destroyed by government forces. 
With troops continuing to shell and burn villages, most ref\tgees are at'raid to roturn home, or have no homes left. 
Getting adequate supplies to many of the civilians has been impossible because they have scattered Into small groups in remote areas to avoid gov­ernment attacks. 
The killings on Monday seem to fol­low a pattern established as soon as the military offensive began. In the eal'ly stages, the government refused to allow relief convoys to go to many areas where civilians were fleeing. 
Now, under Western pressure. the govemment has relented sonH~what on restricting acccss, while tightening con­tt·ol in other ways. It has bloeked imports of some humanitarian supplies, and dHlayed by weeks the entry visas for additional staff members that international agencies say they need. 
The police are also harassing loeal employees of the agencies, foreign offi­cials say. 

r 
-------------------~-----------------.-.--------------~r-----------------­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 27, 1998 
• SUDAN 
Benign use seen for chemicals in Sudan factory 
By STEVEN LEE MYERS and In the chemical industry, intelligence official hours after circumstances, by somebody making prohibited agents. TIM WEINER experts said they were not the bombing that the plant in placing it in a cooler and imme­The group searched known Associated Press aware of any commercial uses Khartoum was heavily guarded diately sending it to a lab," he scientific literature in respone to 
for EMPTA, nor could they fore­and produced no commercial said. "And quality control for press inquiries on EMPTA. 
WASHINGTON see any practical uses based on products. the storage and manufacture of The Sudan has not signed the 
The chemical that the United what is known about the chemi­Administration officials pesticides and insecticides is not treaty, so factories like Shifa States cited to justify its bombing cal. Aldrich Chemical Co. in declined on Wednesday to dis­the highest in the world, so that Pharmaceuticals are not sub­of a Sudanese factory last week Milwaukee makes the chemical cuss the evidence or the caveats could increase the possibility of ject to its inspectors, unlike could be used for commercial and sells it at $45 a gram to lab­raised by the Organization for seeing similarities in the chemi­companies in the United States products, the agency overseeing oratories for research. But a the Prohibition of Chemical cal structure." and other nations that have the treaty barring chemical spokesman said the company Weapons. However, defense and The defense and intelligence approved the accord. weapons said on Wednesday. was not aware of its use in any intelligence officials, speaking on officials dismissed the possibility While the organization did 
The United States has insisted commercial products. condition of anonymity, said they that the United States could have not identify any products using that the chemical found outside The Clinton administration lev­still believed there could be no misinterpreted the soil sample. EMPT A, officials said they the plant could only mean that eled the Shifa Pharmaceutical other explanation for the pres­In the Hague, an official with could not rule out the possibili­the plant was intended to make Industries Co. plant in Khartoum ence of EMPTA in a soil sample the chemical weapons organiza­ty as strongly as the adminis­the nerve agent VX. Sudan con­with a volley of cruise missiles secretly collected outside the tion, who spoke on condition of tration has. tends the plant made medicines last Thursday, saying it had evi­facility several months ago. anonymity, said scientific The official at the organiza­and veterinary products. dence linking the factory to the On Wednesday, several research also suggested that tion, speaking on condition of 
The international treaty group, manufacturing of VX and to a American experts in chemical EMPTA could be the byproduct anonymity, said the scientific the Organization for the shadowy network of terrorists. warfare and analysis offered of the breakdown of other pesti­research showed companies Prohibition of Chemical Facing questions about the another possible explanation. cides. including the Mobil Corp. and Weapons, conceded that it was decision to bomb the factory, They said the chemical's struc­The international treaty, which International Chemical not aware of any commercial senior administration officials ture resembled that of an agri­the United States Senate ratified Industries of America had con­product on the market that con­said on Monday that a soil sam­cultural insecticide, known as last year despite the reservations ducted research into commer­tained the chemical, nor ple collected nearby provided FONOFOS, which is commercial­of many conservative cial applications that used of another chemical compound irrefutable evidence of the pres­ly available in Africa. Republicans who said the orga­EMPTA. made with it. ence of VX at the plant. While the two are not identi­nization would never be effective The Sudan has called for an 
But its spokesman, Donato Kinigier-Passigli emphasized cal, they have molecular similar­does not identify EMPTA by international investigation of Kinigier-Passigli, said in a tele­that the organization had come ities and could be confused in a name. the missile strike, which killed phone interview on Wednesday to no conclusions about the laboratory test performed under But the treaty covers it under one person and wounded seven that a search of scientific papers administration's charges or the less-than-ideal conditions, said the "Schedule 2" list of chemi­others, according to the gov­showed the chemical. known as Sudan's counter-charges. The Hank Ellison, a counterterrorism cals that are subject to scrutiny ernment in Khartoum. EMPTA, could be used "in .limit­independent organization expert who ran the Army's by the organization's inspectors. Thomas Carnaffin, a British ed quantities for legitimate com­administers the chemical chemical and biological warfare By definition, chemicals included engineer who worked as a mercial purposes." The uses, he weapons treaty, signed by more programs at Fort Campbell, Ky., on Schedule 2 can have legiti­technical manager during the said, included fungicides and than 160 nations and ratified by in the 1980s. mate commercial purposes. That factory's construction from anti-microbial agents, and not the U.S. Senate last year. · Ellison, now the president of is unlike chemicals on Schedule 1992 to 1996, said he never just the production ofVX. Still, the organization's disclo­Cerberus & Associates, Inc., a 1, which are deemed to have no saw any evidence of EMPTA or 
One Pentagon official said that sure raised questions about the security consulting firm in other use than to kill people and other materials involved in the the treaty organization had sim­administration's categorical Michigan, said that while the are strictly prohibited. production of VX. ply uncovered academic exam­assertions that there could be no chemical characteristics of The Organization for the "I suppose I went into every ples of possible use with no real other possible explanation for FONOFOS and EMPTA were not Prohibition of Chemical corner of the plant," he said in evidence that any commercial the presence of EMPTA, or ethyl identical, they were "very simi­Weapons is the international a telephone interview from his products are made from EMPTA. m ethylphosph onothion ate. lar" and those similarities "could agency whose more than 400 home in England. "It was never 
"Just because you identify a Wednesday's disclosure added to be misinterpreted in a lab analy­enginers and diplomats oversee a plant of high security. You chemical agent for commercial a number of inconsistencies in sis." the inspections of governments could walk around anywhere uses. that does not mean anyone the administration's accusations, "I imagine this soil sample and chemical companies around you liked, and no one tried to makes it," the official said. including statements by a senior wasn't taken under the best of the world to assure they are not stop you." 


Extra! Extra! 
The Power Macintosh G3 is the fastest comp:Jter w-;:,'ve ever built. With the brutish PowerPC'" G3 processor at its heart, the G3 connects quicki·; to the Internet, opens PC files with ease; mcrease~ personal productivity, and unlocks creativity-­at asurprisingly affordable price. 
But wait, it gets better. If you purchase a PowerMac'" G3 desktop or mLnitower or a PowerBook" G3 between July 11 (l.nd October 24, you can also choose one of these three powerful add-ons at no additional cost. 


Think different. 


32MB of Additional Memory 
Add this, and you have the capability to access the Internet 
while running multiple software applications. It also lets you 
work with high-end multimedia/publishing applications and squeeze every ounce of performance out of feature­rich word processing and spreadsheet software or DVD­ROMs. Virtual PC 2.0 with Windows 95 
Just add Virtual PC and it's no problem to run popular PC programs on your Mac. $100 Display Rebate Add an Apple 17" or Apple 20" display (16.1 and 19.02 inch diagonal viewable image size) to your Power Macintosh G3 desktop, minitower, or PowerBook computer and you have the option of receiving a$100 rebate. Free Bonus Offer for Higher Ed ONLY! One Year Applecare· Service Plan Receive aFREE year of AppleCare' service coverage as abonus. This is in addition to the original one year-limited warranty for atotal of two years of service coverage. 
©19'JH A[l[)le Computer. Inc. All ri~hb rc~er\'1.!\L Apple, the Apple lo~o. ~lacinto~h. 1~1\\'Cr Macinto~h. Po\l.'crBook. i~lac. and "Think di!Tercnt" are tradcmarb ol Apple Cmut~utcr.lnc., rcgbll'rt•d in tl1c ti.S.A. ami otlwrcmmtrb.\"irtual Pt: i~ ;t tr:ttlcmark nf 
Conncct1:... A[lplcCarc h a rc~stcrcd ~cr\'icc mark of Apple Computer, Inc. PnwcrPC i~ atrademark of lntcrnatum:U liusmc~~ ~lachine~ Corporation. u~cd tmder hcen~c therc1rom. tHiwr product :unl compan~ narm•., melllioncil hcnommay he tr:ulcmark.' ol 
their rbpecti\'l' companic~. ~ter1tion of non-Applcprmlucl~ i~ for inlill'lnational purpo.,c~ orll)' and corl~t!tutc~ neither an cndoN'lllcllt nor a rccmllllll'mlatrun. Apple :L\'IlUllc~ no rc~pun~ihilit) with n~wmlto tlw 'l'k'Ction. Jll'rl'ormance, 11r lL"l.' of thl'M" 
pnxlucb. Pcrtormancc comparisom arc h:L"~Cti un 1\YTEmark mtc~cr imh 
www.a le.com/education or 1-800 877-4433 
Thursday, August 27, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page7 


Iraq inspector quits, accuses officials of cave-in 
By JUDITH MILLER 
Associated Press 
The longest-serving U.S. weapons inspector in Iraq resigned Wednesday. charging that the U.N. secretary-general, the Security Council and the Clinton administration had stymiP.d the inspectors on "the doorstep" of uncovering Iraq's hidden weapons programs. 
The inspector, Scott Hitler, said in his resignation letter that thn failure to push aggres­sivnly ahead with the inspec­tions was "a surrender to Iraqi lt~adership" that madn a "farce" of the commission's efforts to provn that Iraq was concealing rhnmiral. biological and nudear weapons programs. 
Hitt11r assnrt11d that the lack of will stnmmed from a pofiey shift by th11 U.N. Security Counc:il and the secretary-gen­oral that was backed "at least implicitly by the United States." lin mad11 his resignation letter public in an effort to force the United States and the United Nations to rr.turn to a tougher stanc11. 
Thn administration heatedly dnnind Hitter's conclusions, saying it had faithfully backed th11 inspections in Iraq. 
An administration official insistnd that the Unitr.d States was "k11cping up llHl prossure on Iraq in ways that really al'f'net him." Within the last wonk. for instance, the United Statns and its allies have quiet­ly rnovnd ships into wators near Iraq to k1~11p Pn~sident Saddam llussoin from smuggling out oil by sea. 
A spokesman for th11 secrP­tary-gencral. Kofi Annan, said he "does nothing at the behest 
of Iraq." Richard Butler, chair­arms control at all," Hitter region" to provoke a confronta­man of the inspection team, wrote Wednesday. "What is tion with Iraq, even though the declined to comment. being propagated by the inspectors had "indisputable 
In an interview, Ritter assert­Security Council today is such proof" that the effort to hide ed that the administration had an illusion, one which in all information relating to Iraq's been secretly trying since late good faith I cannot, and will weapons programs was "run by last year to find a diplomatic not. be a party to." the presidency of Iraq and pro­solution for its confrontation Hitter. a former Marine intel­tected by the presidential secu­with Saddam and in doing so ligence officer, joined the com­rity forces." had abandoned a policy -in mission in September 1991, The administration repeated effect since the end of the soon after its creation, and was its assessment in late Persian Gulf war in 1991 -to assigned to help the inspectors November, he said, warning use sanctions and the threat of ferret out whether Iraq was the inspectors again not to con­military force to compel the hiding information and materi­duct more inspections aimed at Iraqi leader's cooperation. al relating to its programs to revealing how Iraq was con­
The administration has pub­build weapons of mass destruc-cealing the information -what licly backed Ritter called the inspec­"concealment tors. who inspections."
'THE ILLUSION OF ARMS CONTROL IS MORE DANGEROUShave insist­In addition, 
THAN NO ARMS CONTROL AT ALL. WHAT IS BEING PRG-
ed on full Ritter said, 
and unf'et­POGATED BY THE SECURITY COUNCIL TODAY IS SUCH AN ILLU-administration t e r e d officials told 
access to SION, ONE WHICH IN ALL GOOD FAITH I CANNOT, AND WILL NOT, 
the inspectors blocked the inspectors -lan­guage that suggested the United States might carry out military strikes on Iraq if Baghdad reneged on its word. 

sites in BE PARTY TO.'  that military  
Iraqi sus­ action over the  
pected of'  Christmas holi­ 
being used  Scorr RIITER days was  
to concr.al  FIIIIM/i/1 U.S. W/:1\I'!JNS [NSI'IiCT0/1 "domestically  
weapons or  unsustain­ 
the expertise needed to make  tion, and ifso, how.  able," meaning it would be  
them. Twice in the last year the  The Iraqis moved to block  politically unpopular.  
United States has threatened  many of the inspections led by  Ritter declined to discuss  
military action against Iraq for  him and accused Ritter of being  which administration officials  
obstructing the inspections,  a U.S. intelligence officer, a  gave him and the other inspec­ 
and in February, U.S. warships  charge Washington emphatical­ tors this advice.  
were moved within striking dis­ ly denied.  Seeking to defuse the crisis in  
tance.  Ritter said that the "begin­ February, Annan and Saddam  
But last week, U.S. officials  ning of a slow death" for the  signed an agreement establish­ 
ac:knowledged that the United  inspection team began in  ing new rules for the inspec­ 
States and Britain had privately  earnest last October after Iraq  tions. Ritter said that while he  
urged Butler to stop trying to  blocked inspectors and pro­ and other inspection officials  
hold surprise inspections of  voked a crisis that led Clinton  were deeply worried about the  
sites in Baghdad. The officials  administration officials to pre­ agreement's impact. he decided  
said they wanted to avoid an  dict that military action would  not to resign, but rather to test  
open confrontation with Iraq  be necessary if Iraq did not  Iraq's willingness to comply  
after Hussein said he would no  back down.  with the agreement.  
longer cooperate with the  Bitter said administration  He was encouraged. he  
inspections.  officials told the inspectors  added, by the fact that the  
"The illusion of' arms control  then that "there was not  Security Council warned Iraq of'  
is more dangerous than no  enough military power in the  "severest consequences" if it  

Ritter, in fact, returned to lead a controversial inspection in early March. 
But in June, Ritter said, the Clinton administration decided that it would no longer support intrusive inspections solely for the purpose of gaining access to sensitive sites, inspections that Ritter characterized as crucial to the inspectors' mis­sion. 
In meetings at the State Department and the Pentagon, he said. he sensed a lack of support for what he called "concealment inspections," and felt that such inspections were becoming a "politieal liability" in the administration view. 
In July the inspectors received what Ritter called "two of the best pieces of intel­ligence information we've had in a long time" about Iraqi weapons activities. Ritter declined to disclose the nature of the information. But he said he advised Butler, the chair­man of the inspection team, that the time had come to act, and that Butler agreed. 
While Ritter refused to dis­cuss the nature or target of the inspections that he claimed the administration helped stop, he said they were aimed at one of Saddam Hussein's principal secretaries, Abed Hamid Mahmud, who he said is responsible for orchestrating Iraq's effort to conceal infor­mation and material, and at the Special Security Organization, which carries out Mahmud's orders. 

Student Government Board of Trustees Reports 
Let your voice be heard! Assist with the Student Reports to the Board of Trustees! 
These reports are the only direct contact that students have with the Board of Trustees. Through these reports, students make recommendations to the Board for further action. Previous reports have ranged in topic from social space to multicultural issues. 
If you have either ideas or the drive to assist in the rapidly approaching Board of Trustees Report, please leave a message on the Student Government Administrative Relations mailbox at 1-1364. For more information, feel free to contact Mark Massoud at 243-5567, Matt Tomko at 243-9442, or Andrea Kavoosi at 4-1364. 
Student Government: Putting Students First 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 27, 1998 
• RUSSIA 

Banks invest in dollars as ruble value declines 
By CELESTINE BOHLEN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

As Russia searches for a new government and a program to pull the nation out of a tailspin, fresh panic swept through its financial institutions Tuesday as the currency plunged about nine percent, three banks announced a merger to shore up their stability and the gov­ernment unveiled a plan to stretch out the repayment of its debt. 
Coming at a moment when Prime · Minister-designate Viktor Chernomyrdin is still negotiating with the Parliament over the makeup of his new government, the ruble's abrupt drop stoked new fears of inflation similar to the spiraling rates that plunged Russia into a depression in the early 1990s. 
"The situation is worse today because then, the country was dependent on domestic produc­tion, however bad it may have been," said Mikhail Berger, editor of the newspaper Segodnya. "Now, big cities are 
RSRC Activity Room I 
mostly dependent on imports, and traders can no longer get credits, not from banks, not from abroad. So there is a dan­ger that supplies to the cities will fall short." 
The drop in the value of the currency was the deepest in 
four years, and it was stopped only when the Central Bank intervened to hold its value at 7.8 to the dollar, after trading was twice suspended. In 
the 10 days since the ruble's value was weak­ened from its previous level of 6.2, the bank has 
spent an estimated $1 bil­lion to buy rubles in cur­rency markets to keep it from falling too far, too fast. 
The lunge for doliars was driven mostly by Russian banks that scrambled to trade rubles for dollars and other foreign currencies. The moves reflect­ed a pessimism by bankers and investors about the outlook for the ruble as well as the uncer­tainty over whether Chernomyrdin can halt the cri­
sis. 

1 11 :00-11 :45am Cardia Combo 
2  11:50-12:10  Flex&Tone  
3  12:15-12:45  Step I  
4  3:15-4:15  Step II  
5  4:20-5:20  AeroStep  

RSRC Activity Room 2 
11  4:20-5:20  Hi Intensity  
12  4:20-5:20  Athletic Cond  
13  5:25-6:10  Lo Impact  

14 1 0:15-11: 15am Step II 15 12:15-12:45 New Beginnings 
ROCKNE CLASSES 
20 6:30-7:15am Step II 
21 4:20-5:20 Step II 
22 5:30-6:15 Step II 
AQUADIC CLASSES 25 12:15-12:45 Aquacise 
KNOCKOUT WORKOUT 27 6:45-S:OOpm Boxing Room 
FUNK AEROBICS 
28 6:45-8:15pm Activity Room I M/W/F $35 M/W/F $20 M/W/F $27 M/W/F $35 M/W/F $35 
M/F $22 W/Su $27 M/W $22 T/Th $27 T/Th $22 
M/W/F $35 M/W/F $35 M/W $27 
M/W/F $22 
T/Th $25 9/1-10/15 
M $20 8/31-10/12 
Chernomyrdin, in meetings Tuesday with parliamentary leaders, said he was open to a coalition government that would necessarily include members of a Communist opposition that has been a res­olute foe of Hussia's now-sput-
With Yeltsin now acting increasingly like a lame duck, space has opened up on the political spectrum for new forces. Chernomyrdin, whom Yeltsin all but anointed as his political heir in an address to the nation Monday, is one ben­eficiary, but others include members of Russia's pow­erful financial elite, many 

'IF THE QUFSTION IS WHETHER THIS of whom support the new prime minister, and the
PACKAGE WILL SECURE RUSSIAN 
legislature itself. ACCFSS TO CAPITAL MARKETS IN THE 
"I cannot rule out the 

FUTURE, THEN THE ANSWER IS NO. THIS possibility that the presi­
dent might step downIS SORT OF THE 'SLASH AND BURN' 
before his term is over, APPROACH TO RFSTRUCTURING.' leaving the country in the 
hands of a more pre­dictable prime minister," ANONYMOUS AMERICAN INVESTOR Seleznyov said. 
tering economic reform pro­gram. 
Putting forward the Parliament's demands in unusually blunt and bold terms, Speaker Gennady Seleznyov, a Communist, pressed for a greater role for the legislature in a system that until now has been dominated by President Boris Yeltsin. 
6 5:30-6:30 Step I 
At his press conference Tuesday, Seleznyov struck a defiant note, warning Yeltsin to keep his hands off the new gov­ernment and saying the parlia­ment will insist that Chernomyrdin follow the legis­lature's own anti-crisis pack­age -now in preparation ­before confirming him. 
Russia's deepening troubles came on a day when major investors anxiously awaited 
M/W $27 


Fitness Schedule Fa/11998 
7 4:30-5:30 Cardia Combo T/Th $22 8 5:35-6:30 Step T/Th $27 9 12:30-1:30 Muscle Step Su $12 10 3:15-4:15 Cardia Combo Su $12 
16 4:00-5:00 Step I T/Th $27 17 5:25-6:10 Flex & Tone T/Th $22 18 4:15-5:00 Step II Su $12 19 5:10-5:30 All Abs Su $10 
23 12:15-12:45 Flex & Tone T/Th $27 24 3:45-4:45 Step II 301 T/Th $27 
26 6:45-7:45pm Aquacise T/Th $22 
Registration begins Thursday, August 27, 7:30am RSRC 
States. 

"If the question is whether 
this package will secure 
Russian access to capital mar­
kets in the future, then the 
answer is no, it doesn't," said 
an American investor who 
spoke on the condition of 
anonymity. "This is sort of the 
'slash and burn' approach to 
restructuring." 

Nonetheless, some analysts 
said the repackaging is a need­
ed step forward. 

"No one would buy or sell 
Russian debt because no one 
knew what price to put on it," 
said Charles Peabody, an ana­
lyst with Mitchell Securities 
Inc. in New York. "This is an 
attempt to get the markets 
working again by establishing 
some price for the debt, but 
obviously fiscal reforms are 
going to be equally important." 
Even so, some foreign ana­
lysts were already expecting 
losses as high as 30 percent on 
treasury bills, or GKOs, given 
the loss of faith in the Russian 
market after the tumultuous 
events of the previous 10 days. 

Much of the turmoil has 
involved Russia's banking sys­
tem, which has faced a double­
sided problem of a cash short­
age and debts they cannot fully 
repay. A 90-day moratorium 
has been imposed on bank debt 
owed abroad, and three major 
Russian banks on Tuesday 
announced a proposal to form 
a new banking company in a 
bid to bolster their capital 
base. Some analysts saw the 
merger plan, involving 
Uneximbank, Menatep and 
Most-Bank, as an attempt to 
circle the wagons against the 
growing storm. 

In a statement Tuesday night, 
Menatep chairman Alexander 
Zurabov suggested the new 
consolidated banking group 
would join forces to press the 
Central Bank to loosen its con­
trol on Russia's money supply 
to pump more money into the 
banking system. 

"The softening of the tough 
monetaristic policy is an 
absolute necessity understood 
by everybody," he said. 

Two days after Yeltsin 
replaced Kiriyenko with 
Chernomyrdin -five months 
after he replaced 
Chernomyrdin with Kiriyenko 
-Russians and foreigners 
alike were left waiting for a 
clear signal of how the new 
government plans to pull the 
country out of its crisis. 

In an interview published Tuesday in the newspaper Komsornolskaya Pravda, Chernomyrdin said his first pri­orities would be "the protection of the population's social inter­' est, the payment of wages and pensions." Next on his list would be an industrial policy because, he said, "Hussia can­not be pulled out of the crisis 
by purely monetary steps." 

Chernomyrdin's choice of 
words, harking back to Soviet 
terminology, suggested more 
government support for 
Hussia's flailing industries, and 
not the kind of tough measures 
proposed in recent weeks by 
Kiriyenko. 

"To predict . what 
Chernomyrdin will do is very 
difficult," said Boris Nemtsov, 
an outgoing member of the 
Kiriyenko government, in an 
interview Tuesday. "During his 
live years in government, there 
have been seven governments. 
This time, in a best case sce­
nario, inflation will not be so 
big, 15 to 20 percent next year. 
In the worst case, there might 
be hyper-inflation, 100, 200 or 
even 1,000 percent." 

Thursday, August 27, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
Calendar of Events 
Afrlcentrlc Spirituality: Freshmen Jntro Retreat, "The Plunge" 
Friday & Saturday, August 28-29, 3:00-7:00 pm Fatima Retreat Center 
NDE #52 (October 9·1.1) Sign Up 
Monday-Friday, August 31-September 4 103 Hesburgh Library 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September 1, 7:00-8:00pm Bond Hall, Room 114 
Catechist Information Session 
Wednesday, September 2, 4:30 pm Montgomery Theatre/LaFortune 
Latino Students at Notre Dame: Pachanga '98 Dinner and Dance 
Wednesday, September 2, 5:00-B:OOpm LaFortune Ballroom 
Africentric Spirituality: Freshman lntro First Year Partner Reception 
Wednesday, September 21 7:00 Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Sunday, September 6, 4:00 pm Sorin Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass 
Sunday, September 6, 1:30pm Keough Hall Chapel 
Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults (RCIA­becomlng Catholic) Information Session for Candidates and Sponsors 
Sunday, September 6, 1~:30 pm Notre Dame Room/LaFortune 
Conformation 
Tuesday, September 8 Siegfried Hall 
7:00 pm for Candidates 
8:00 for Sponsors 
Emmaus 
Information: Tami Schmitz at 631·5242 Small faith sharing community 
SECOND SUNDAY OF EASTER LAETARE SUNDAY 
Weekend Presiders 
at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, August 29 
5:00p.m. Rev. Brian E. Daley, S.J. 
Sunday, August 30 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Brian E. Daley, S.J. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Vespers 

Sunday, August 30 
7:15p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 

Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Sirach 3:17-18,20,28,29  
2nd Reading  Hebrews 12:1&19,22-24  
Gospel  Luke 14:1, 7-14  


WELCOME... BACK! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
This is "Considerations," Campus Ministry's weekly contri­bution to your required reading. We consider it an important oppor­tunity for us to inform, engage, and even mildly entertain the wider university community. In addition to this weekly column, you will find on this page everything there is to know about the current events sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry. 
We are located in several areas on the campus and would encourage any or all of you to visit our offices any time, if for noth­ing else than an M&M fix now and then. We have offices in the Concourse of the Hesburgh Library, in the North end (entrance) of Badin Hall, in the LaFortune Student Center, and at the Fischer Graduate Residences Community Center. Stop by any time if you have any questions at all regarding our programs or services. Any of the offices will be happy to direct you to whomever may know most about that in which you're interested. If nothing else, stop by and pick through our voluminous literature on the many programs which we offer and to which you are welcome. 
With this column we welcome to this community all new stu­dents and we welcome back our returning members as well. Notre Dame is only all that it can be when we are all here together. Those of us who live on campus year round welcome the return of all of you. There is an appropriateness to the hustle and bustle which happens when we are all gathered in this place. Oh, we might have appreciated the solitude for a while but it doesn't take long for one to realize that this university was built for a purpose (other than construction!). It is a gathering place for intellectual conversation, inquiry and discovery; for spiritual challenge, growth and develop­ment; and for service to the larger community for the building of the kingdom of God. Along with the academic component, we believe that Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns and the resi­dential nature of this university play an integral role in the Catholic education of the men and women of Notre Dame. They are all pieces in the larger puzzle which is Notre Dame, and which makes us unique among universities in this country. 
The team in Campus Ministry would urge you to join with us, and with our colleagues at the Center for Social Concerns and with the Rectors and residence hall staffs, in our collective journey of faith. The opportunities for involvement are many. Campus Ministry programs are intended to engage all members of this com­munity and it is our hope that all would feel welcome joining us. We have become convinced over time that the fullness of one's Notre Dame experience depends on one's willingness to enter into dia­logue with the larger questions of faith and to give oneself in service to the larger community. We are here to help you do just that. 
Know, again, of our welcome. If there is anything that we in Campus Ministry can do for you, please call us. And join us, if you will, in the building of the kingdom of God right here at Notre Dame. 
CJ 
a 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
a 
~ 
~ 
• • • 

0MPUS 


MINISTRY 
---'-"'---­


~~------------------------~------~----------~------~ 







IEWPOINT 
page 10 os~ERVER -----------------Thursday, August 27, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cock. MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hcarher MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .............. Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ..............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Karhleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS... . ...... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ................. jennifer Breslow 
Kristi KJirsch CONTROLLER .................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ......M. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR . ............. Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhe indc:pendem nc:w~paper published by rhc .students of the Universiry of Nacre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does nor necessarily rdlecr rhc policies of rhc adminisrrarion of either insci(Urion. The news is reported as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of tht: majoriry of rhe Ediror,in-Chief. Managing Editor. Assistant Man~.tging Editor and deparrmenr editors. Comlllenraries, letters and columns present rhe vi~:WS of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Vir:wpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's comrnuniry and to all readers. The free.• cxpr~ion of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 63 I -5323 Systems 631-8839 Sporrs 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.\ @nd.cdu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Managcr/Gencrallnformarion 631-7471 News E-Mail observcr.obsncws. I @nd.cdu 


• THE BEAT 

Summertime at Notre Dame a well kept secret 
As The Observer humorously pointed out in the Campus Scene section of Tuesday, August 25, 1998 edition, the most popular and "universal Notre Dame question" is the very imagina­tive question: "How Was Your Summer?" I would have to agree with that one. 


Brittany Morehouse 
The Observer also suggested that there are "four stereotypical respons­es" to this question. They can be cate­gorized under one of the four: The Europe Traveler, The Intern, The Beach Bum and The Summer School Student. Right again. 
Finally, The Observer went so far as to spell out the most probable, comedic answers for each of these four students. It is here that I beg to differ. My opinion comes from recent experience as a summer school stu­dent. Notre Dame in the warm sum­mer months is magical. 
My motivation was not to "get those · tougher classes out of the way" as Tuesday's piece assumed. Nor was I able to slack off with the workload because it was easier-it wasn't. It was just more manageable. 
Summer school is the most wonder­ful opportunity to take in all of the magic that is Notre Dame. Although many people immediately grimace when they hear the words "summer school" because of what they think the words imply, in fact, these misgivings are unfounded. 

lndeed, the summer campus is a lot more quiet and relaxed. This atmos­phere adds to the comfort and flexibili­ty that surround the student. Professors are even more available and accessible. The small classes are inviting and rewarding because the opportunity inherent in the intimate setting of small groups. It's really not that bad-I promise. 
Tuesday's piece 
\'11

claimed that job posi­tions had been "filled by the overly ambi­tious people who had secured employ­ment before they left cam­pus in the spring." However, I discovered it was rather easy to find jobs. Indeed, I fell into one myself accidental­\), ly, without even seeking it. 
As for weekends and the Fourth of July, there is plenty to do within driving distance of South Bend. For example, Cedar Point is only three-hours away, and the many plea­sures of Jacobs Field, The Flats, and other Cleveland hot-spots are a mere four hours drive. Most classes ended early afternoon, allowing for two and a half days of mini-vacation at the end of each workweek. I went to Chicago for the Fourth, "just like every other sum­mer school student," but I didn't go to the Taste (didn't need to; and I had a great time even so). 
Attending Summer School is like being adopted into a warm, accepting second family. I have always felt that perhaps the best explanation for why ND is so special is that the university is like one gigantic family. This sensation of being embraced in the welcoming arms of Irish hospitality emanated 
even more strongly during the summer; it was very easy to fall into those wide­spread "anus. During the summer, students stay in 
differ­ent dorms than those of the 
regu­lar school year. As a result, they feel more com­fortable in making them­selves at home, and 
more able to befriend those who Jive in other dorms during the school year. What is remarkable is that just when you decide you have already met the most fabulous people and you have the most fantastic friends, you meet even more under these ideal circumstances, and the magic of great friendships blossoms. 
Early August, right before classes concluded, I was having a conversa­tion with a gentleman who had been coming to stay at Notre Dame in the summer for the past 10 years with an 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

organization to which he belonged. As we talked about majors and long term goals. he interrupted me to comment on my enthusiasm: he said that he had never met a student from any other university that was quite so effusive about his or her school. 
Then, he paused, reconsidering and ref1ecting on what he had just told me. He added, impressed with the import of this new realization, that in fact, every student here seems to enjoy and appreciate Notre Dame as I do. I could only smile. 
Being on campus during the summer session makes you feel that you are a member of a very special, close-knit, companionable family. It is not sur­prising, then that some people resent a little bit that now that everyone is back, I feel like people are invading my space. I think, however, that it isn't so much the invasion that is creating this vague sense of discontent. Rather, it is the sense of loss that comes with the closing of a very special, serene time of year spent with similar-minded people who have come together in a remarkable place. 
The serenity of summer is gone, that is true. But we must remember that the energy and verve of autumn has its own allure. Let the warm memories fade even while we enjoy the ram­bunctious antics of Notre Dame in all its autumnal glory. 
Brittany Morehouse is a sophomore English and American studies major living in 1/oward Hall. She works in the Sports Information Department as a Student Assistant. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• Ouon: Of THE DAY 
'Tomorrow is often the busiest day of the year.' 
-Spanish proverb 

-

Photo courtsey of Mr. Joesph Milford 
Pearl Jam pulls all the stops (and yields) 
Ending their Ticketmaster boycott, the band returns to the road for their longest tour in 5 years 
Ll
ke many great bands, Pearl Jam has musically and personally changed. >uring the time of their first album,Ten, Eddie Vedder would climb the scaf­olds and crash into the crowds. The songs were very riff-heavy, and guitar ulos were ubiquitous. However, the performances surrounding the release of Vitalogy, however, re!lect!~d a far darker side of the band, much brought on by the death of Kurt Cobain. The band members just weren't as "on fire" as they were in tho past and hardly interacted with the crowd. much less with each other. Though tho reloase of No Code showed signs of the band lightening up, the band still had their faces carved in granite. 
Even this fanatic was a little worried about the band's upcoming summer tour; on their L(~tterman appearance last April. they seemed as if they were fullilling an unphmsnt ponnance. When recording the newest album, Yield, the band returned to tlwir roots. and not only does the band sound like it did years ago, but they also play with the same amount of energy and charmism a. 
Having caught a couple shows on the first leg of the North Ameriean tour, I was amawd at the band's good humor. Fans have grown tired of seeing the band in such a sullen mood in thn past. so it was great to see Pearl Jam having a blast again. Bassist Jpf"f' Ament's feet literally never touched the ground, while lead gui­tarist Mike McCready amazed the crowds with his incredible l'ingerwork. Stone (;ossard. who has built of a reputation of completely ignoring the crowd, was much mon~ int(~radive with people in the audience. 
For tlw tour, ex-Soundgarden drummer Matt Cameron has been filling in for Jack Irons (due to health reasons), and the intensity at which Cameron plays is unbelie­veable. No offense to Mr. Irons, but Pearl Jam cannot let him be simply their tour drummer. He brings a musical edge to Pearl Jam that hasn't been heard in years. 
Even though Vedder hasn't done any crowdsurfing on this tour, his behavior on stage is just as wild as it was during the Ten days. He dances with stagedivers, shares his bottle of wine with members of the audience, and has stopped hiding behind that huge mass of curly hair {which has been cut substantially). 
As far as setlists go, the band pulls all the stops. The bands plays an equal num­ber of songs from its five albums, although they usually play a few more from Yield. At least two of the Big MTV Three ("Alive," "Evenl1ow" and "Jeremy") make the list plus favorites like "Daughter," "Betterman" and "Corduroy." The band sometimes treats the crowd to a rarity, which are usually songs the band covered years ago that are now popping up again. Among these are The Who's "Baba O'Hiley" and "My Generation" and Neil Young's "F--n' Up." 
Contrast to the last time I saw Pearl Jam in '95, I was extremely impressed how well they have matured musically without forgetting about their pasL They have overcome the burden of success and have actually begun to accept. The band is no longer focused on bucking Ticketmaster and the music industry, and they are once again doing what they do best: playing music. 
Emmett Malloy 

T
hrno fri(mds and I embarkod on a voyage to the New World Ampitheatre in Tinh~y Park, Illinois. Wo had all como to see one of the biggest rock groups of 
our tinw: the Dave Matthews Band. The crowd of probably 17,000 was get­
ting ovor-anxious as tho opening act Poi Dog Pondering ran through a mod­est sot of funk and H&B tunes. When Cartor Beauford. Stefan Lessard. Dave Mattlwws, Loroi Moore and Boyd Tinsley finally came out the crowd went nuts. 
Matthows greeted the crowd with his trademark, "How's everyone doing this (~voning'!" and b(~gan to noodle around on his guitar. The noodling then turned into a song with the whole band coming in to play "Don't Drink the Water." Although this song is rather slow for an opener, the band played with an ultra-high level of intnnsity. 
The next song, "The Last Stop," drove the audience wild with Dave's screaming vocals and Boyd's Middle Eastern-influenced violin lines. "One Sweet World" came next, and ovnn though it's one of the group's better songs, the. £:rowd hardly reacted. most likely because the song was only released on an independent recording. 
Tlw groat(~St aspect of the Dave Matthews Band is their ability to jam with one anothnr. Thoy arn ono of the fnw bands that can turn 4-minute radio singles into 15-minuto opies. Ono of tho great oxamplos of this ability shined through on "Jimi Thing" which was played ncar tho ond of the set. Each member got a chance to play solos culminating in evoryonn playing tognther. 
Each member of the DMB usually has their own moment in the spotlight. Dave is best known for his boyish charm and funny comments during the set. lie acted hurt and dejected after a fan accidently threw a frisbee at his head after "The Dreaming Tree." He said he didn't know what his name was. Then Dave jokingly said, "My name is Jimi." After that, he began the chords to "Jimi Thing." Boyd Tinsley played with such great passion on "Lie In Our Graves," taking a solo during the middle sec­tion. Leroi Moore impressed the crowd with his musical talents, playing both !lute and saxophone during the ending jam of "#41." Stefan Lessard opened up the sen­sational "Crush" with a sweet bass solo. "Hapunzel" was highlighted by the expert drumming of Carter Beauford. 
The worst part of the show were the inconsiderate concert goers. During "Crush," my one friend thought it was raining. I told him "How could it be raining? We're in the pavilion." I was right, it wasn't raining; some drunk guy was relieving himself on my friend. That unpleasant experience could not ruin one of the most impressive displays of music today, though. It is hard to lind a contemporary band that blends showmanship and musicianship. The Dave Matthews Band is succesfull in blending 
these two arts. 
GeoffRahie 


Reasons to became a Scene music reviewer 
Free COs (it's especially cool to get advance copies and brag about it) Free Tickets (even after the show has sold out) Opportunites to go backstage ("So, how's it going, Mr. Matthews?") Excellent contacts to the music industry Interested? Simply email ndmusic hotmail.com 
---~· ~----­
[--page 12 The Observer • SPORTS -·-----Thuc.day, Augwt 27, 1998 
~~--------------------------------------------------~--------~~--~--~----------------------------------------~--~--------­
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

The home run chase continues for Mac and Sosa 
Fish get the best ofBirds in extra innings 
Associated Press  Antonio Alfonseca (3-6) worked two  
ST. LOUIS  scoreless innings. Fernando Tatis tripled to lead off  
Mark McGwire had a 509-foot  the eighth and McGwire drove an 0-1  
answer for Sammy Sosa.  fastball from rookie Justin Speier for  
After Sosa hit his 52nd home run  the shortest of his four 500-foot-plus  
earlier in the day, McGwire  homers this year at Busch Stadium.  
responded with No. 54 Wednesday  Center fielder Todd Dunwoody never  
night, a two-run shot that  moved as the ball soared over his head  
moved him closer to Roger Maris'  and landed just above the wall used for  
hallowed record in the St. Louis  background beyond center field.  
Cardinals' 7-6, 10-inning loss to the  McGwire hit 58 homers last year, 34  
Florida Marlins.  with Oakland and 24 with the  
McGwire, now within eight homers of  Cardinals after joining St. Louis on July  
breaking Maris' record of 61 homers in  31.  
a season, is only the third player in NL  He warmed up for the effort with  
history to hit  eight homers in 15 batting-practice  
54 homers and the first in 49 years.  swings, including one that banged off  
Ralph Kiner hit 54 homers in 1949 and  the scoreboard beyond the left-field  
Hack Wilson hit a league record 56 in  wall. But before ~ending a seven at-bat  
1930. McGwire's homer was one of six  homer drought -roughly his season  
in a two-inning burst after the game  ratio -his power had been straight  
had been scoreless through six. John  up.  
Mabry also had a two-run homer in the  McGwire hit towering popups in the  
Cardinals' five-run eighth before the  first and sixth off Marlins starter Kirt  
Marlins hit four home runs in the  Ojala and took a called strike in the  
ninth, including three on consecutive  fourth, neve.r taking the bat off his  
at-bats by Derrek Lee. Cliff Floyd and  shoulder.  
Kevin Orie, in an eight-pitch sequence  He has 30 games to reach Maris'  
off reliever John Frascatore.  mark with 19 of those at home, where  
Mark Kotsay's three-tun pinch-hit  McGwire has obliterated the stadium  
homer off Jeff Brantley tied it 6-6. Both  record with 28 this season. The previ­ 
Florida's home-run barrage was only  ous mark was 18.  
witnessed by about half of the crowd of  Mabry also had a two-run homer off  
30,004, having been satisfied by  Speier, who has allowed four homers  
McGwire's latest shot that helped the  in 11 2-3 innings, in a five-run eighth.  
Cardinals take a 6-0 lead.  Ron Gant added a run-scoring double.  
After the St. Louis bullpen blew its 29th save, Randy Knorr's RBI double  Speier knocked down Brian Jordan with his first pitch after giving up  
in the 1Oth off Juan Acevedo (6-3) sent  McGwire's homer.  
the Cardinals to their fifth straight  Marlins manager Jim Leyland was  
loss. The Cardinals have lost eight games when leading after eight  ejected after home-plate umpire Harry Wendlestedt warned both benches.  
innings.  

Wood's 16 strikeouts pace Cubs to win 
Associated Press of the tired arm, Wood has struck 
out 8, 11,3 and 16. 

CINCINNATI He has struck out 10 or more in 
Sammy Sosa finally made contact eight starts this season, including his against Brett Tomko, hitting a tower­record-tying 20-strikeout perfor­ing shot for his 52nd homer mance against Houston on May 6. Wednesday as the Chicago Cubs beat Wood has struck out 223, two shy the Cincinnati Reds 9-2 to end a of the club's rookie mark this four-game losing streak. century. Tom Hughes struck out 225 
Kerry Wood (12-6) struck out 16 in in 190L eight innings, the second-highest The Cubsgained a split of the two­
total of his rookie season, as he won game series by piling up three runs for the first time since July 31. in the second off Tomko, a second­Wood, bothered by a ~'dead arm" in year pit~he-r whq_js fading as the early August, has double-digit strike­season winds down. Gaetti doubled out totals in two of his last three home two runs and eventually scored gal1).es. on Manny Alexander's suicide 
Sosa, who had struck out in his six squeeze bunt. 
career at-bats against Tomko (11-Sosa, who struck out in his first at­10), hit a solo homer in the third bat, came up with two outs in the inning that smacked an advertising third and took a ball. panel on the facing of the third deck After a mighty swing-and-miss on in left-center field. the next pitch, he backed out, shook 
The homer, estimated at 438 feet, his head, adjusted his batting gloves drew a standing ovation from a large and composed himself. He homered part of the crowd of 20,315 and on the next pitch. moved Sosa to within one of Mark The 52 homers are the second: 
McGwire as they close in on Roger highest total for a Cub, trailing only Maris' record of 61. Wilson's 56 homers in 1930. The 
Sosa has homered in each of the solo shot gave Sosa a career-highCubs' last 13 series. His 23rd homer 130 RBis this season, fifth-best in on the road this season matched the franchise history. club record shared by Hack Wilson The homer was Sosa's only hit in (1930). Ernie Banks (1960) and Dave five at-bats. He also struck out three Kingman (1979). times. 
Fifteen of Sosa's homers have Gaetti added a sacrifice fly in the come in Wood's starts. sixth and an infield RBI single in a 
Gary Gaetti drove in four runs to four-run ninth. help Wood become the first Cubs Aaron Boone hit his first major­rookie to win 12 since Mike Harkey league homer, a solo shot, and cen­in 1990. He allowed three hits and ter fielder Lance Johnson threw into walked three before yielding to Rod the Cubs' dugout to let in the Reds' Beck. other run in the fifth. 
In his four starts since complaining 
Need to advertise. Use Observer classfieds. 
The Observer acceprs claSSifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for nexr-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classifieds for conrenr wirhout issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
WANTED 
After school child care needed. Mon thru Fri. 3-5 pm, all or any days. Must be good with children. Car & references a must. Day -234-2211 (Angela) Eve. · 271-8224 
Sports Officials Wanted tor Flag Football, Baseball, and Soccer. Good pay,Fiexible hours and we will train for each sport. Apply in person at Rolfs Sports Activity Center or call 631-5100. 
Ask for DeMond Thomas or Jeff Walker. 
ND profs seek mature, loving babysitter for great 15 month old girl. Flexible hrs, great pay. 234­2241,631-7762,631-7138. 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTER­NOTRE DAME 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Noter Dame,located at 18680 Bulla Road,is currently accepting applications from college students for part time positions. The hours are 11:30 a.m.-1:05 p.m. MWF and/or TTH. If you are inter­ested in applying, please contact Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 for more information and an applica­tion. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame,is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks,and singing songs with children,please call Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND).Piease join our fun filled days. 
HTML EXPERT WANTED Fast-paced Internet design and management team needs a person skilled in HTML.Candidates must have an advanced knowledge of HTML 3.2,including (but not limited to) tables,form design, server-side includes,style sheets and browser­specific differences in HTML imple­mentation.Strong preference will be given to candidates who are not dependent on HTML generation tools and are able to produce com­plex HTML by hand. Skills in inter­face design, image design and com­pression for Web use, and JavaScript are valuable.Salary plus benefits. Contact Coy Jankowski at JGSulliven,219.234.2211 ,or submit a resume to Resumes@JGSullivan.com 
FOR RENT 
Off Campus Rentals Very, very reasonable rent 
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY (1998-99) 2-bedroom apartments 1 large house (2 students minimum) Clean, washers/Dryers Security Systems Plenty of Parking Call Dave or Carolyn] 291-2209 
1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW 
GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
6 SDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 
FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272· 
6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.S Rooms with private baths, $80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road,Exit #1 07, 1·800· 
418-9487. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY fine home within 10 miles of ND/SMC 219-291-7153 
Furnished room, air, kitchen, laun­dry lac., 3 min. N. of campus.272­0615 
Close to campus. Clean, 2 bdrm. Stove,refrigerator,security system. $450/month.$300 deposit.1 yr lease.801 Corby.Pager 679­8748.Piease leave#. 
Bed and Breakfast tor Notre Dame games and events. Private home 2 
miles form campus. Private baths. 
FTBL WKNDS-Charming Cape Cod 2 Bdrm/1 Bth,Sieeps 4-6,7 min drv,lncludes brkfst.For more info call 232-4835 
FTBL WKNDS-Cute 
3bed/2bath,sleeps 4-6, 7min dr,lnclds brkfst.For more info call 
233-3410 

FOR SALE 
Two lofts for sale ! Best offers ­
must go! Call4-1439 
1010 Oak Ridge,5 bedroom,3 bath 
house.$109,000.Walk to ND.Well­
maintained,adapted for wheelchair 
user.2 car garage,wooded lot,cen­
tral air, fireplace. Call Jane at 277­
2755 

91 TEMPO, Auto, 4dr, Good Body, Runs Great, $1800/BEST. 257­1708 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 MICH TIX! 
$$ and/or trade for LSU tix. Call Andrew at 904-947-6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS VERY GOOD PRICES 2 MICH -1 PURDUE 
1 BAYL ·1 LSU HONEST/FAST DELIVERY 
404 784 1128 
FOR SALE 

FOOTBALL TICKETS 
271-9412 
WANTED 

ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
271-1526 
ND Ftbl. tix 
BUY-SELL 674-7645 

ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 
674-7645 

ND Football Tickets Needed. 
AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
2 Student Football applications for sale. 4-2795 
Buying Michigan vs Notre Dame 
Football Tickets. 277-1659 
For Sale Football Tickets 
All Games 272-7233 
FOR SALE. 2 Michigan GA's.Best 
Offer. 634-3193. Ask for Kim 
PERSONAL 
For your FREE W.W.J.D. bracelet, call 631-6385. 
Relive the memories!! Classic Irish Games from 1970s and 80s on VHS Video. Complete network broadcasts, most of excellent quali­ty. Call Tom 410-309-0395; Email:danyluk@erols.com 
Volunteer in Africa or Mexico. One year placements in various sectors: human rights, community develop­ment, youth, journalism. microenter­prise, health, refugee relief, more. Internships in our washington, DC office. Visions in Action. (202) 625-7 403. Visions@igc.org Web: www.visionsinaction.org 
UMPHREY's McGEE has returned from their sabbatical to perform two very unique concerts this weekend: 
HEARTLAND-10:00 pm TONIGHT! $.99 cover w/student ID 
MICKEY'S PUB -10:00 pm SATURDAY $3 cover 
Check out their web site at: www.nd.edu/-jroach/mcgee 
VITO's Barbershop. Closed All Day Sun and Wed.Open Daily 8-4,Sat 8-3. 233-4767 
I've only been to two classes and I'm already tired. 
but at least Mark DeBoy is back ­does anyone here think he's the cutest thing production has ever produced? I was SURE someone 
said that... 
hey spencer, you're fired. 

Chucky D-I love you. Even in flip­flops (and that's really saying some­thing). 
Hey BRAD. Hellooo ... has your lite­time subscription kicked in yet? There's nothing like it, it's quite breathtaking. not at all 'pretty stan­dard,' but then, you did always accuse chestnuts of being lazy. 
But you and I BOTH KNOW your father didn't invent the question mark. no ... shush .... that was a pre­emptive shush. I have a whole bag of shush. 
Jenny let's go swimming in the cess pool. 
I love the new office. 
I am to old to copy edit. 
I hate Campus View security. 
Frosty and his evil sidekick 
Yo quiero Taco Bell 
I hope Mrs. Arnold T. Pants didn't get locked out tonight 
Who's Freda? My secretary. Who are you? Freda's boss? 

Every since I could rember I always wanted to be a gangster 
ohhh it's not even late and it's all 
started already. 

Thursday, Augusr 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Bears will cut ex-Irish star this weekend 

Associated Press 
lAKE FOREST, Ill. 

The No. 2 pick in the 1993 draft will be cut if the Chicago Bears can't trade him by Sunday. Mark Hatley, the Bears' vice president of player person­nel, said Wednesday. The announcement came after the Bears and Mirer failed to reach an agreement to cut Mirer's $10 million contract. 
"I wish it would have worked a different way," Hatley said. "We just decided we needed to go in another direction." 
Mirer, who never threw a touchdown pass in a Bears uni­form, had already left the Bears' practice facility when the announcement was made and couldn't be reached for com­ment. When he left the field after spending another practice on the sidelines. though, he talked as if he knew his career in Chicago was over. 
"I made it clear that if they choose to keep me on this team, I'm willing to help them if they want to get guys in here and they need cap money," he said. "I wasn't going to go down a drastic amount to make the team unless they were going to make a commitment and I would have the chance to be here more than just four months. 
"If they want to show me I'll be here. I'll be here. If not, I'll go somewhere else." Mirer's salary would have cost the Bears $3.2 million against the cap this year, and they'll save $2.3 million by cutting or trad­ing him. 
He turned down two offers that would have paid him approximately $1.5 million, Hatley said. Mirer wanted long­term security, something the Bears couldn't give him. 
The Bears have already called other NFL teams, and Hatley said two or three have expressed interest in Mirer -if he's willing to take a pay cut. Mirer's agent. Marvin Demoff. did not return repeated phone calls Tuesday and Wednesday from The Associated Press. 
Chicago started preparing for life after Mirer on Tuesday, let­ting Steve Stenstrom run the No. 2 offense. Mirer spent prac­tices on the sidelines. a baseball cap on his head. and coach Dave Wannstedt said he wouldn't play in Friday's exhibi­tion game against the New York Jets. 
''I'm not going to take a chance on wasting a game and then him not being here," Wannstedt said. 
This was hardly what anyone expected when the Seattle Seahawks drafted Mirer behind Drew Bledsoe in 1993. He'd rewritten the record book at Notre Dame. and with his strong arm and quick­ness, many thought he'd be the next great NFL quarterback. 
He was well on his way after his first season, when he set NFL rookie records for attempts (486). completions (274) and yardage (2,833). But he faltered his second year and got pro­gressively worse with each sea­son. By 1996, he was the low­est-rated quarterback in the NFL. 
But when veteran Erik Kramer broke his neck, the Bears still thought enough of Mirer to give the Seahawks a first-round draft pick for his rights and signed him to a three-year, $10 million contract in February 1997. 
It seemed a perfect fit. Chicago ran a version of the West Coast offense, and Mirer looked forward to starting over just 100 miles from his home­town. 
But he faltered almost imme­diately. He had trouble picking up Chicago's system and by the end of training camp, Kramer had regained the starting job. 
Mirer finally got his chance after the Bears lost their first three games. He threw for just 27 4 total yards, no touchdowns and three interceptions as Chicago lost all three games he started. 
He was demoted again -this time behind Kramer and Stenstrom -and he didn't play for two months. 


Packers expect Levens to report to camp soon 
Associated Press were last year," coach Mike end of the week," Favre said. million. according to said. Holmgren said Wednesday as The Packers fly to Miami on Engelhard. Neither Engelhard The Packers, who probably<;HEEN BAY. Wis. ncgotiationscontinued on a Thursday afternoon. so he nor Reinfeldt returned phone will start Travis Jervey at half­
l'ro Bowl halfback Dorsey long-term eontract that will could join the team there from messages Wednesday. back in the season opener. also I.Pvens is apparPntly dose to pay Levens about $5 million a his home in Atlanta. But general manager Hon are concerned about Levens ending his holdout, and the year. Levens isn't the cure-all to Wolf said even if Levens getting hurt. bungling <;reen Bay Packers· In discussing his team's abili­what troubles the Pack, how­arrives this week. his long Engelhard has maintained r.ould sure usn his help. ty to work out the kinks before ever. holdout could render him sub­that Levens has stayed in top
IL's just too bad lw can't play the season opener against With three new starters on par for the first month of the condition, working out in d<lf'tmSil, too. Detroit on Sept. 6. llolmgren defense. Green Bay has sput­season. Atlanta with a track coach and 
With one exhibition gam<~ said: "We have infused some tered, applying poor pressure The Packers practiee only personal trainer and going rt•maining. at Miami on Friday. new play<lrs into the starting on the quarterback and getting three times in pads nflXt week. through the same regimen he tlw orror-prorw Packers have lineup. particularly on defense. burned by the deep pass. although Levens would be able used last year in preparing for yet to show they'rn rtlady to We haven't had all our guys on Flanker Robert Brooks. who to take part in individual work. an increased role. dnfe nd their NFC ti tie. They offense. Brooks will be back. underwent back surgery last "It's tough for us because we "Dorsey's in the best shapehave rough mlgos to smooth on Levens will be in, I'm sure." month, is sorely missed. Fellow don't do a lot of hitting in prac­of his life," Engelhard said ear­both offllnse and def'llnse. Quarterback Brett Favre said 1,000-yard receiver Antonio tice," offensive coordinator lier this month. "And he was in although special teams looks it was his understanding that Freeman has as many drops as Sherm Lewis said. "Our hitting great condition last year."lin<l. the Pro Bowl halfback would catches. is basically over. you know'? Levens rushed for 1,435 
"I thought wo were primed mport by week's end. Holmgren's biggest beef? Maybe we'll have to put some yards and seven touchdowns and ready last year at this "I think ho will be in. I don't Penalties, 42 of them for 379 pads on him and just hit him a last season and also caught 53 point in training r.amp. Hight know the details of it. but it yards. little." passes for 370 yards and five now wP'I'Il not quitP wlwre Wfl sounds like he'll be in by the "We're a sloppy football Favre said the halfback will touchdowns, numbers he said 
team right now," he said. have his work cut out for him. proved he was worth $5 mil­And one without its best "Well. I know he won't be lion a year even though he had rusher. Levens' agent. lladley ready. I mean, we have to be onlf one season as a starter
Back-to·School 
Engelhard. and Packers chief realistic," Favre said. "We've under his belt. negotiator Mike Reinfeldt have been going at this for about The Packers made him their made significant progress in five weeks now." Amen. said franchise player. guaranteeing
Saving 

t h e i r con tract t a 1 k s after Holmgren. him $2.742 million this season. LOOKING FOR INEXPENSIVE breaking through a stalemate "I think any time a player, the average of the live highest­late last week. regardless of how much he's paid rushers last year.
FURNITURE FOR YOUR 
Engelhard lowered his played. sits out the entire But that amount becanwDORM ROOM? demands on a signing bonus training camp? Yeah. I think moot when running backs Visit our and Green Bay increased its it's diflicult for him to start the cashed in on the NFL's infusion 
otTer to a yearly average of $5 season properly," Holmgren of TV revenue this offseason. 
Western Avenue store for bargains galore. 

WARDROBE? 

ego\IVSKI will have afinal meeting to inform you of deadline
Stop by our NEW 9,000 sq. ft. store on dates and the application process on Cleveland Road West 
near Meijer_ We'll help Tuesday, September I, 1998 
you stretch your 

7:00p.m.
back-to-school e 

**l2.tt DeBartolo**
dollar! 

to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may b~ obtained in 102~8 ,,.,,...,,.a"'~" Halla~er the rryeeting date. 
i 
• I 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, August 27, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Mets retain lead in National League wild-card chase 
The Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Hideo Nomo pitched a three­hitter and struck out 10 as the New York MPts retained their lead in the NL wild-card chase with a 4-1 win Wednesday over the San Francisco Giants. 
Nomo. returning to the pat·k where he made his major leaguP debut in 1995 and in which he came within five outs of a perfect game later that season. had the Giants swing­ing wildly throughout the game. 

Nomo (6-11 l did not allow a runner until Jeff Kent led olT the fifth with a soft single to left. He struck out Barry Bonds three times. whiffed the side in the third inning. and walked only two. 
Nomo. who had lost his pre­vious three starts and failed to last more than live innings in any of them, got his third com­plete game of the year. The other two came for the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Lenny Harris led off the 
game with  a  homer off Orcl  
Hershiser  (9-9)  and  Brian  
MeHae had  a pair of HBI sin­ 

gles for the Mets. who broke a three-game losing streak. The other New York run scored on a wild pitch. McHae 
went 3-for-4, with three sin-['Nti.i(\iji. 
gles. .. · ..,.. ,.. Harris has hit all three of his homers this season in the past 
Mets 

nine days. He was obtained by 
Cubs

the Mets from Cincinnati on 
Giants 71 62 2
July 3. 

The victory allowed the Mets to stay a game ahead of the Chicago Cubs, who won 9-2 at 
~·~···1~,~·9!f«Pl 
Cincinnati. in the wild-card standings. The Giants fell two Red Sox 77 52 games behind the Mets. Rangers 69 62 9 

.. -~~ 

--·~-----w--~ 
Thursday, August 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN's GoLF 
Connell just misses Amateur cut 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame junior Jeff Connell (Madison. Wis.) came up onr, shot shy ofadvancing to mateh play at thr, United States Amateur Championship, after the rain-delayed second round was eoneluded Wednesday morning. 
Ten players finished tied for the nnal nine spots in the 64­player mateh-play field while Connell's 14(J total left him in a 20-way tic for 66th among the initial :~12-player !'ield. If two or the players that totaled 145 had instead shot 146. there would have been 30 players in the playoff l'or the final nine spots. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Connell posted an even-par 70 in his second round on Tuesday morning at the 6,908­yard. par-70 Oak Hill Country Club. Tuesday's play was sus­pended at 4:29 p.m. due to rain and resumed at 6:33 before another delay halted play shortly after 7:00p.m. 
The second round resumed Wednesday morning. with Connell owning a share of 47th place and 94 golfers still yet to finish. Joel Kribel (Pleasanton, Calif'.) earned the stroke-play medalist honors with his two­round total of 3-under 136. 
1\t the conclusion of the sec­ond round of stroke play, 10 players competed in the playoff for the final nine places in the match-play field. Seven players advanced to match play after making par on the first hole of sudden death. The final match play qualifier was determined on the fourth playoff hole. 

Connell shot a six-over 76 in Monday's first round before carding an even 70 on Tuesday, which tied for the 21st-best score in the second round and the 45th-best round of the 36-hole tournament. 
Connell stood tied for 164th after Monday's action but moved ahead of 78 golfers in his push for the match-play round. Only one golfer, Brad Hyler (77-65), jumped ahead of Connell from the first to second round. 
Yankees end losing skid with late inning heroic-s 
Associated Press skid with a run-sr-oring single in hit a go-ahead, two-run homer the ninth inning that led New as Anaheim won 6-4, sending NEW YOHK York over theAnaheim Angels 7-New York to its fourth straight 
With the Yankees on their 6 Wednesday in the second game loss. worst losing streak in nearly a of a day-night doubleheader. "We re still human; there's no year. Derek Jeter stopped the In the opener. Heggie Williams doubt about that," Yankees 
HEAD COACH BOB DAVIE 
WELCOMES YOU BACK TO SCHOOL 
KICKOFF THE 1998 SEASON WITH COACH DAVIE'S QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION FOR STUDENTS ONLY (student ID required to enter) 
MONDAY, AUGUST 31st 
7:00 -8:00 pm (EST) 

JOYCE CENTER (enter through gates 1 and 2) 
\''VI' 
~ 
it
-

l'd 
~ 
)A 
]11{ 
u 
TUESDAY & SATURDAY DJ DANCE PARTY 2 DJ'S 
' 

L•~~inG-f®.r .Jincls. eil11 f®.r ];®®1inG-in:f® 
This Thursday 1/2 Price! No Co"er! DJ! 

283.0653 -1150 Mishawaka Ave. 
Take Eddie Street to the Mishawaka Ave. Exit At the First Light. For more info on these nights 
reliever Mike Stanton said between games. 
New York then wasted a 5-1 lead built largely by Homer Bush's first major league homer, a three-run shot in the 11fth of1' Steve Sparks. 
Jim Edmonds' second homer of the game, a two-run shot. pulled Anaheim to 5-3 in the seventh. Tim Salmon's HB! single made it 6-4 with no outs in the eighth and chased David Wells. 
Mariano Rivera (3-0). who has never gotten six outs for a save, gave up an HBI grounder to Garret Anderson later in the inning, then allowed an RBI sin­gle to Darin Erstad that seored Norberto Martin from first with two outs in the ninth. 
But Mike Fetters (2-7) walked Jorge Posada leading off the bot­tom half, Scott Brosius sacrificed against Shigetoshi Hasegawa and Bush advanced the runner with a groundout. Jeter then sin­gled to right. 
New York. which wasted a 2-0 lead in the opener, has allowed 47 runs in its last six games and looks nothing like the power­house that raced to a 94-32 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
record before the skid. The los­ing streak was the Yankees' longest since a six-game last Sept. 1-6. 
"Now, all of a sudden, the question isn't who we're going to play in the World Series, it's how we're going to get there," Yankees manager Jqe Torre said. ',',Funny what happens in a week. 
The Angels, who began the day with a 3 1/2-game lead over Texas in the /\L West, are 6-4 against the Yankees this season -the only team to lead New York in the season series-and could open the playoffs at Yankee Stadium. 
"Nothing means anything until you get to the postseason. In 1988, we beat them 11 out of 12 and lost to them in the playoffs," said David Cone, remembering how the Mets dominated the Dodgers during the regular sea­son 10 years ago. 
In the opener, Jefl' Juden (1­

2) won for the first time in 11 starts since June 26 and for the first time in four starts since the Angels aequired him from Milwaukee on /\ug. 7 . 
Women's Tennis -Tryouts will be held on Sept. 9 for all interested players. Call Liz Barker at 1-3730 for more infor­mation. 
Sports Officials -RecSports is looking for flag football, fastpitch softball, baseball and soccer officials for the fall interhall season. Good pay and flexible hours. Call DeMond Thomas or Jeff Walker at 1-3536 or 1-4437 for more informa­tion. 
Sports Info -Get involved in the excitement of Notre Dame Athletics. The Sports Information Department always is look­ing for student assistants. For more information call 631­7516 or come to theinformational meeting on Wed., Aug. 26 at 8:00 p.m. in the Sports Information 'Office on the seeond floor of the Joyce Center above Gate 2. 
• 

• ~\' \.'-?-' 
• 
');,>',-""::;:~~~~ •
: • BIAJHlON • •• ··r:...~ ;··.,~:~ ~~· ~----~ SATURDAY. AUGUST 29 
10:30 AM AT ST. JOE BEACH 
(RAIN DATE IS SUNDAY. AUGUST 30) 1/2 MILE SWIM 
& 
2MILERUN REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
ARSIIY •
•

TEAM & INDIVIDUAL • NON· ARSITY •
•

TEAM & INDIVIDUAL •
•
•

R--~ :
1\IIGHL-'Ji-l:_I:_U_B_______,email us at XTREAMZCLB@aol.com 
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports lnlormation Irish junior Jeff Connell came up shy in his quest to advance to match play at the Unites States Amateur Championship . 
www.nd.edu/-recsport • 
r,...-----------~---~--~~---~---~-----~~-----....-..-~ ~~-~--------~ -...---~--­
page IG The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 27, 1998 
student union 
HAPPENINii!fi 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Welcome Week. 08/27. Carnival Thursday. Fieldhouse Mall. 0400PM-0700PM. *All Rain Locations in 08/28. Aloha Friday. Fieldhouse Mall. 0800PM-11 OOPM. LaFortune Ballroom. 08/29. Cinema Saturday. Fieldhouse Mall. · Swingers at dusk. 
Scream to follow. 
Acousticafe. 08/27. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM 
DM§A 
OMSA Coalition Meeting. 08/27. Thursday. 

OMSA Welcome Back Picnic. 08/28. Friday. Fieldhouse Mall. 
CLA!!i§ OF i!OOO 

Sleepover Snacks. 08/27. Thursday. JACC. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Activities Night. 09/01. Tuesday. JACC. 0700PM-0900PM. 
Beat Blue BBQ. 09/02. Wednesday. Fieldhouse Mall. 0500PM-0800PM. 
Saferide. 631-9888. 08/27. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0200AM. 08/28. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0300AM. 08/29. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0300AM. 




Not intended for use as stickers. Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. 
I 
980000000098000000009800000000980000000098000000009800000000E I 
---·--·-------·----· 
Thursday, August 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

Emily Tarpoff' will offer addi­Dame. 
tional outside hitter options The Irish have never lost a
1998 NOTRE DAME 

V-Ball 
for the Irish. match in the Big East. with 76 
The talent is there for the straight wins. They will look to
VOLLEYBALL SCHEDULE 
continued from page 20 
Irish; the only question is extend that streak this season, a national championship," said whether they can overcome although the conference is 
at Valparaiso· 

Boylan. their inexperience. Seven steadily improving. They will Notre Dame vs, Georgia i:Yl!!&c;::":';;·:,;;;:ii;HI Sophomore transfer Michelle members of the Irish volley­also be seeking to advance 
Colorado vs. Georgia 

Graham and Lauren Stettin ball team this year were beyond the round of 16, where
Notre Dame vs. Colorado 

will back up Boylan at setter. named to the national "Fab-they have bowed out for the at Wlscon$1il Veteran defensive specialist 50" list in high school. fourth time in the past five 
vs.lndiana 

Audra Duda will be an impor· "We're a young team but we years. 
tant server and leader for the have very good athletes with Villanova. the only other Big 
Irish in the back row. good skills -the only thing East team in the NCAA 
The biggest void for Notre we lack is experience," said Tournament last season. may Dame to fill will be among out­Brown. "The team could just pose the biggest challenge side hitters, which both Harris keep getting better and will within the Big East for Notre 
2 Fri. Seton Hall and Lee played last year. begin to gel as we get experi­Dame. 
4 Sun. Rutg11rs 
The duo handled about 90 ence. And Treadwell's leader­"I think Notre Dame's 
6 Tue. at Illinois State 
9 Fri. at Connecticut percent of Irish passing last ship will be a real key ingredi­always a strong program. but 10 Sat. at Fairfield year. and one of the two led ent. This season should be they did lose a couple of very 
11 Sun. atSL John's 
!7 Sat. at Duke the team in kills in all but two very interesting, because so talented young ladies," said . 18 Sun. at North Carolina matches. Lee is the only per­many things are up in the air." Villanova head coach Heather 
21 Wed. at Florida son on the top 10 career list One of the biggest assets for Hoehn. "I think in the Big
23 Fri. Providence 
25 Sun. Boston College for kills, hitting percentage, the team is Brown. who has a East. we're going to have 29 Thu. 0 r11l Robllrts digs, aces, assists and blocks. career winning percentage of some surprising showings and 
31 Sat. Syracuse 

They shared Team MVP in .681 in 12 years as a Division I be a little bit stronger confer­1997, and Lee won Big East coach. ence than we have been in the Player of the Year each of the While at Notre Dame, the past." 
3·6 Wed.·Sat. NCAA first and second rounds 
last two seasons. Irish squad has grown better The first match for the net­
10·13 Wed.·Sat. NCAA reglonals 
Girton will be heavily relied year by year, with six straight ters will be Tuesday at
17 Wed. NCAA semifinals 19 Fri. NCAA championship on for blocking and hitting, NCAA Tournament bids. Valparaiso. Brown said, "We and junior Mandi Powell for Brown, a former All-American will just be looking to kind of passing. Beyond them, and Olympian, has been establish a line-up and get our Jameyson, sophomore named Big East Coach of the team used to playing. We need Adrienne Shimmel and new­Year, as well as District Coach to play at a high level." comers Marcie Bomhack and of the year while at Notre 
Free 



Thursday, August 27 6:30P.M. 118 Niewland 
Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
(sponsored by KAPLAN and the N.D. Prelaw Society) 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1999-2000 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 

If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting THURSDAY, AUGUST 27 -6:00p.m. 
126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
otre Dame Football Schedule 
~-<'"'  
Michigan  
t Michigan $tate Purdue  Oct.24  Army  
, ..........>Stal'lford '!K at Arizona State  Oct.31 Nov.?  Baylor at Boston College  
Nov.14  at Navy  
Nov.21  LSU  
Nov.28  at USC  

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Freshmen Terrance Howard (32) and Tony Fisher (12) hope that they can make an impact in the Irish backfield. 
player nationally by the Chicago Sun-Times. 

Football 
"Every young running back we have is good," said Denson.

continued from page 20 
"Sometimes out of a group of 14 touchdowns in 1997. The 6-running back recruits, you'll foot. 186 pound tailback gar­get one really good one. But nered New Jersey Player of the with these three, there's no Year accolades from the drop off. Philidelphia Inquirer and was a "They all have certain tools Parade prep all-American. that make them unique. 
McNair, who appeared to There's going to be some tough have fullback size in high competition around here for a school, has trimmed down to while." 221 pounds in anticipation of But talk of competition can earning the No. 3 tailback posi­only go so far. Especially when tion. McNair. a Mater Dei High the defending national champi­School graduate, rushed for a ons are coming to town. school-record 2,671 yards in "We'll just have to wait and 1997 en route to USA Today see," said Robinson. "It's good first-team prep all-America to have a lot of quality players, honors. The native Californian but the bottom line is what they was also rated the 20th best show on the field." 

-~-----­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, August 27, 1998
.. 
• WoMEN's SoccER 

Irish begin season with same goal: the title 
By BRIAN KESSLER country. In addition, they returns in goal for the Irish. Assistant Sports Editor return nine starters. including Beene played every minute of four all-Americans and three every game for the Irish in 
The Notre Dame's women's starters from the U.S. under-1997, giving up just nine goals soccer team will get its first 20 national team. Despite the all season. She shut out 18 of taste of competitive action this loss of Kate Sobrero and Holly her 25 opponents and boasted season as they take the field Manthei, Notre Dame still a 0.36 goals against average. tonight at 7:30p.m. in an exhi­maintains a powerful attack. Ohio State is coming off a bition game against Ohio State. The Irish should be solid at rather disappointing season in 
The Irish hope to continue every position. whicti they finished seventh in the dominance they have "We are going to put quality the Big Ten with 3-5 record in enjoyed over the Buckeyes. players on the field at every the conference and a 9-9-1 Notre Dame has won all four position, which is one of the overall mark. contests against OSU, outscor­reasons we have had success The team also lost three of ing their opponent 18-1. in recent years," said head its best offense players in 
Once again. the Irish will be coach Chris Petrucelli, who Tiffany Tisdale (9 goals. 3 a formidable opponent for the returns for his ninth season at assists in 1997). all-American Buckeyes. The Irish enter the the helm. Jodie Stranges (9 goals. 2 season ranked second in the Junior LaKeysha Beene assists) and Lisa Su ttmiller, 
who holds 11 OSU records. Katy Traeger is the only returning striker for the Buckeyes. 
The Irish open the regular season at Michigan on Sept. 1 and the outlook is very posi­tive. 
"We are going to be a very good team, one of the best teams in the country, and should have a chance to win the NCAA championship," said Petrucelli. 
That championship run begins tonight on Alumni Field at 7:30 p.m. when the Irish take on the Buckeyes. 
The Observer Sports Department is currently accepting applications for copy editors, sports production and beat writers. If interested stop by the office or call 1-4543. 
"Christ expects GREAT things from YOUNG PEOPLE" 
--Pope John Paul II 
With joy and thanksgiving The Congregation of Holy Cross announces and celebrates the perpetual profession of vows by our brothers 
Christopher W. Cox, C.S.C., ND '92 
and 

Michael C. Mathews, C.S.C., ND '94 
Join us as they consecrate themselves to Christ forever. Saturday, August 29, 1998 at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rev. Michael C. Mathews, CSC
1:30 p.m. 

"We accept the Lord's call to pledge ourselves publicly and perpetually as members of the Congregation of Holy Cross by the vows of consecrated chastity, poverty and obedience. Great is the mystery and meaning within these vows. And yet their point is simple. They are an act of love for the God who first loved us." 
Constitutions of the Congregation ofHoly Cross, V.43 
ANSWER ~ 
THE CALL \(!)) 
~ 
I ' 






Thursday, August 27, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WiZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN 
... \nd 'o a ~n·at n·h·hration t'll"'-llt'CI. Tlu· rua.'or t'\t'll t'f.IIIH' lo 
BE 

thaul~ /.w:o l"or \\lu·n lht• ''nail ht•m·h 'ilia loudu·cl don in llll' laud" ith tlu· 1\l'allh of ~1'1'1'11. it hacl arritkutil dt'llloli,lu·cl thr 1lotJII'I'' · olcl ~o111h lliuill).: II:til. \ Builclitt).: "hid1 hacl rau."· 

FOXTROT 
DILBERT 
OUR NEW E-MAIL 
~~--~~--~--~---~~L--------~~~-~~~~ 
CROSSWORD 
competitor extension 1 World War II 
30 Lord's Prayer ill Kind of wrestlingdanger 31 Part of a boa 51 Cut off 
9 Stings 

34 Good bridge 54 Tracks. of a sort 14I.R.S. worker locale 
ss Expert 15 Phantoms 36 Composer 
56 Bulrush
Bruckner16 Certain craving 

57 Old-fashioned
37 Kind of eraser 

17 Bottom of the adventurism 
39 One of the Near crankcase 

Islands 18 Sarah, Duchess 
40 Some football DOWN 
of-
teams 
1 Great Rift Valley 

19 Ma1or birth news 43 Half a cartoon 
locale 21 Part of a Lattn 
couple 
2 Geometrician's 
trio 44 #1 foreign-
study
language song 22 Woman with a 

3 Diacritical mark 
of1958cause 
.cWordsof
45 Simple

24 Prof. helpers reassurance
signatures 25 Flip, as a top s Nurse's aid 
47 Cuisinart 27 Food for Fido precursor 
&"Wheel of Fortune" request 1-:-:--+-+-+-+~f-­

7 Famous
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
mathematical curiosity &Made 9Send 23 Captive of 42 Volleyball 10 Invigorating 
Hercules player words 26 Hard to believe 
44 Cotes du Rhone 11 Be seen by, in a 28 A.A.R.P. and others vision members 
4&Wretched 12 Hearty entree 
30Trim 31 J.F.K. watchdog 47 Vent sound 

13 Nine-digit I D's 32Charm
15 Down (on) 
BILL AMEND 
SCOTT ADAMS 
COlNCIDENiALL'(, 
THE NEW ALICE. MONITORING 5'fSTEM DETECTS TWENT'( 1-\0URC:, OF UNPAID OVERTTT"\E. 
BEEP ... BEEP... 
BOOP... NOW 
DETECTING 
CLUELESSNES~ 
IN TI-\E. 
\IKINIT'C 
( 
48 Buddy 
49 Noted town in Buckingham­
shtre 52 Hole number 53 1994 World Cup 
host 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Taurus-You might like to ignore responsibilities and do some socializing, but your schedule demand that you tend to business for now. 
Aries-Go for it! Do it now and ask questions later-you are a born leader-always first and never afraid to go it alone. 
Scorpio-You are at your mental best with sharp ideas and clear thoughts. This is an excellent time to make decisions and take care of mental work. 
Gemini-You may find yourself leading a group today. This could mean a tour, instructing others in safety, etc. Group or com­munity work-anything that is altruistic or serves the common good-is where you can be found today. 
Cancer-You have a sense of justice and an innate ability to under­stand the law. whether natural or man made. You could find yourself correcting a situation at work that would cause a great loss if you did not call attention to it. 
• OF INTEREST 

Opening Mass -Participants for the Opening Mass 
may rent their caps and gowns at the Notre Dame {lookstore today from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. See Lori Moser or calll-8495. 
Folk Dance -On Wednesday at 7:30p.m.• the 
women from Saint Mary's College will be hosting a Folk Dance in the Clubhouse. There is a fee for admis­sion. 
The Big Lebowski -The fllm "The Big Lebowski" 
will be showing at the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art on Saturday. There is a small price for admission. 
Drive-in on the Quad -The movies "Scream" and 
"Swingers" will be playing outside on the big screen on North Quad Saturday at dusk. Free popcorn and sodas to the early birds. Admission only to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with stu­dent ID. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
EUGENIA LAST 
Leo-You have an incredible drive to accomplish and achieve in life. Your ambitions are backed up by your willingness. 
Sagittarius-A co­worker seems quite insis­tent on getting in your space. Look again, they may just be looking for a more light-hearted atti­tude than their own. 
Capricorn-If it makes sense. you love it-if it does not. you feel guilty about it: that's what life feels like now. There is a loving attention to details and a sense of satisfac­tion in doing what is right. 
Aquarius-There are clear-minded insights into your own plans and methods now and this is a very good time to com­municate your goals and put them into words. 
Pisces-Ideas regard­ing new business or pri­vate inventions should be put in writing with your name and date included. Mail one copy to yourself (without opening), and one copy to your manag­er, director, etc. 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D  Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City ---------------State ____Zip___________ 
33 Waited upon 

zo Struggling rural Answers to any three clues in this puzzle worker are available by touch-tone phone: 
35 Worry, perhaps 

38 Permission 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). southpaw in paper Annual subscriptions are available for the major-league 41 Not lost or best of Sunday crosswords from the last history destroyed 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
22 Winningest 





By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Spores Writer 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team will be aiming to move higher into the group of elite programs in the nation this season. 
The biggest challenges for the Irish will be making up for the loss of top duo Angie Harris and Jaimie Lee to graduation, and remaining consistent and confident despite the team's youth. 
"Because of our youth, one of the things we're going to be working to maintain is consis­tency," said Debbie Brown, in her eighth year as the Fighting Irish head coach. "As in years past, we play a lot of nationally ranked teams, so that will be tough for us. Another challenge will be to defend our Big East title." 
Notre Dame will be battle-tested early, with many of its toughest matches coming in September. 
In its first four matches, the team takes on seventh-ranked Wisconsin, 12th-ranked Colorado, and Georgia, which was 30th in the number of points received in the USA TODAY I AVCA Coaches Top 25 Preseason Poll. 
A win against one of these teams would boost the team's confidence, especially since the team lost to Colorado last season, and was knocked out of the NCAA Tournament by Wisconsin. 
"I think they're going to be tough. They're always tough," said Colorado Buffaloes head coach Pi'i Aiu about his team's upcoming match with the Irish. "I think Debbie Brown is one of the best coaches in the nation. I don't think pre-season rankings mean a whole lot. We're two pretty similar teams playing each other that finished in exactly the same place last year." 

Top players for the Irish this year will be senior cap­tain and middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell, sopho­more setter Denise Boylan, and sophomore left frontline player Christi Gerton. All three are returning starters. Brown hopes that junior mid­dle blocker Mary Leffers will soon return to the court after rehabilitation from anterior cruciate ligament injury to her right knee late last spring. 
Treadwell, besides being the team's only senior, is a candidate for Big East player of the year and Academic All­America. She has Notre Dame's best career hitting percentage (.298), has only missed one match in three seasons and is the team's top all-around player. 
"Throughout her career, Lindsay has been very reli­able because she does so many things well," said Brown. "She always seems to come up with big kills in 


are very realistic; volleyball Goralski.
tough matches, is a great 

just kind of depends on who's Boylan trained with the USA
blocker, serves very tough 

playing well on what day. national program this sum­
and has developed into a pri­

Right now, we have a lot of mer under Coach Toshi
mary passer for us. She also 

skill, but need to fine-tune." Yoshita, who she referred to
gets the job done when she 

If Leffers is healthy, she will as one of the top defensive
has to set the ball and now is 

be a top middle blocker for coaches in the world. She is
becoming a great leader for 

the Irish. At 6'4", she aver­considered one of the nation's
us." 

aged 1.26 blocks per game top young setters, and will be
Treadwell talked about the 

last season, has the fifth-high­looked to to play a greater
goals for this season. 

est hitting percentage in Irish leadership role this season.
"As a team, our goals are to 

history and earned All­"As a team, last year we
get past the round of 16, stay 

District honors last season. made it to the sweet 16, so
undefeated in the Big East, 

Without her, the team will this year we want to make it
and keep improving," she 

have to rely more heavily on further, and ultimately to win
said. "The team goals are my 

younger players such as Jo
goals. I think that our goals 

Jameyson and Malinda see V-BALLI page 17 
• fOOTBAll 

Denson eyes stellar conclusion 
By ALLISON KRILLA Associate Sports Editor 
Autry Denson likes to think he's the kind of person who thrives on pressure. 
Heading into the 1998 sea­son, the senior tailback needs 990 rushing yards to become Notre Dame's all-time leader. Denson also has sophomore Darcey Levy nipping at his heels. and the talented fresh­man trio of Tony Fisher, Terrance Howard and Mike 

... McNair breathing down his neck. Denson is thriving. "Coming in I knew it would be this way," said Denson. "But I put more pressure on myself than anyone else. It's my senior year, and it's not supposed to get any easier." According to running backs coach Desmond Robinson, the 
competition may be stiff, but Denson has secured the start­ing role. 
"Autry Denson is set as the starter," he said. "He's been in that position for two years, and he's played well this fall." 
As for Levy, solid spring and fall camps plus the departure of Clement Stokes and Tony Driver's move to safety have paved the way to the No. 2 spot on the depth chart. 
"Darcey is going to play," said Robinson. "He's come out and had a good fall. He's done some positive things during camp." 
Although Levy did not see any varsity action in 1997, the 6­foot-2, 208 pound tailback adds another dimension of athleti­cism to the Irish rushing attack. 
While Denson and Levy pro­vide a solid base at tailback, the first-year triple threat of Fisher, Howard and McNair have provided the drama dur­ing this year's preseason camp. 
"We're pleased with all the freshmen right now, but the problem is you can only start one guy," said Robinson. "The names you hear in that fresh­man class, you'll be hearing in years to come." 
Names like Fisher, Howard and McNair. 
Fisher, a 6-foot-1, 205 pound back from Euclid, Ohio, carried the ball 189 times for 2,143 yards and 40 touchdowns dur­ing his senior year at Euclid High School. Fisher earned USA Today Player of the Year hon­ors in Ohio, and was rated the 69th best player nationally by the Chicago Sun-Times. 
Howard, a Rancocas Valley High School product, rushed 231 times for 1,450 yards and 
see FOOTBALL/ page l 7 


Senior tailback Autry Denson has a firm hold on the starting tailback slot but the question of who his backup is still needs to be answered. 
1&'" .;.;:%:

vs Michigan vs Valparaiso 
September 5, 2:30p.m. i!'fin" September l, 7:30p.m. Cross Counrry 
SPORTS 
vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler 

• .,
ATA 
September 12, ll a.m.
1flt,. 

at Michigan State at Valparaiso ':!r/ September I, 4 p.m. @ September I, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 






