-~-~--~·-~--~--....... _,__________~---------~-------------------------~ --~ 
A ro<lm • Bob Kerr makes his case for alco­
Bookstore Action 
with a
• The wild and wacky teams of the first 
holic social space. round have given way to more serious play, 
brew? p. 10 
· · toni p. 17 

__,.~.,...........,.......---...,........--­
"' 
' -'! i
j ,y I
Friday, April 17, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No . .H6 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Notre Dame students report on CDF conference 
By MICHELLE BARTON from juvenile and justice issues adult prisons, "make a pro­News Wrirer to child care. Poet Maya found statement on us as a Angelou opened the confer­nation and how we value our 
In an effort to share ideas ence, which was attended by children." and provide a forum for discus­approximately 3,000 students She opposes current senate sion on problems facing today's and community representa­legislation proposing placement children, six Notre Dame stu­tives. of juveniles in adult jails. Carr dents who attended the The purpose of the forum was believes this will result in more Children's Defense Fund (CDF) to explain projects, organiza­children in adult jails, higher conference in Los Angeles held tions and ideas which are being rates of rape, sexual abuse and a forum in llesburgh Library developed in other areas of the suicide of jailed youths. At the lounge last night nation in hopes of spurring same time, she thinks this will 
The CDF is a non-profit orga­implementation of local pro­do nothing to prevent children nization which attempts to aid grams. Each Notre Dame stu­from committing crimes. Carr all children and focuses on dent spoke on the issues she stressed that the media perpet­helping poor. minority and dis­focused on while at the confer­uates the myths that juvenile abled youth. The primary slo­ence. crime is increasing and that gan of the CDF is "Leave no Senior Bridget Carr spoke youths are guilty of many mur­Child Behind." about juvenile and justice ders. 
At the national conference, issues. She believes that cur­Addressing violence· and vio­the students attended a series rent polieies, which allow run­of workshops on topics ranging aways and truants to be held in see CDF/ page 6 



"Amazing Grace" 
Kathleen Norris, best-selling author of "The Cloister Walk" and "Amazing Grace," spoke to Saint Mary's last night. See page 4. 
ND celebrates 
freedom of 

African nations 
By JESSICA LOGAN News Wrirer 
People around the world celebrated African Freedom Day on April 15. and Notre Dame will join the celebration with several events this weekend. 
·"The theme of this year's African Freedom Day is 'From Political to Economic Independence: Africa Charting Her Own Destiny,' which is the main concern of Africa in the 1990s," said Christophe Knugriiazonde, founder and president of the Pan-African Cultural Center. 
Festivities celebrating the continued eco­nomic and political advancement of the African nations will begin this afternoon with a presentation by three guest speak­ers: Fassassi Yacoubou; Mohamed Aly Thiam; and Dieudonne Antoine Ganga, ambassadors to Benin, the Hepublic of Guinea, and the Republic of Congo, respec­tively. 
On Saturday at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center, keynote speaker Omotayo Olaniyan, an expert in international economic relations, will elaborate on this year's theme. 
The weekend events will conclude with a. unique performance featuring music and 
see FREEDOM/ page 6 



NO environmental groups prepare for Earth Day 
~ 
By SARAH]. HILTZ Gretchen Hasselbring explained Amish lifestyle. also be in charge of Grab 'n' Go 'r Associate News Ediror the motivations behind the A Native American dancer bag and mug sales. events. will perform an ethnic dance, "I guess this is the second 
Notre Dame environmental "The main point of the events followed by a short talk about time the creek is being rerouted groups will be celebrating of the week is caretaking and the environmentally sound and by the time it's done, it will Earth Day two days early this stewardship of the Earth, in practices of her culture. be closer to where it originally year with tomorrow's keeping with the Catholic tradi­One of the issues which the was," Steiner explained. GreenFest at Fieldhouse Mall. tion," she said. events will address is the recent Members of Recyclin' Irish 
The festival, sponsored by "There is some Amish and decision to reroute Juday anticipate that those who Heeyclin' Irish, will feature tie­Native American influence as Creek, which runs near the golf attend the day's festivities will dying, flower planting, perfor­well," continued Hasselbring, course, in order to accommo­consider the day fun and well­
I 
lj. 
mances by the Skalcoholics and referring to two cultures gener­date the new development. spent. 
I ,. 
! 
(. Hotel Pradi, a presentation ally known for conscientious "There have been a lot of "I think it will be fun because about environmental ethics, a environmental policies. environmental people involved they're pulling together a lot of Native American dance and dis­Menno-hof. a Mennonite­to make sure the fish can still different aspects of environ­plays by area environmental Amish center in Goshen, will spawn. There will be a display mentalism, from the creek to groups. Reusable Grab 'n' Go offer a display presenting showing pictures of the creek the lifestyle of Native bags and mugs will be on sale aspects of their lifestyle that and how they're moving it." Americans to flower planting. 
during the events. help to preserve the earth. This said Mary Beth Steiner, a mem­It's all encompassing," said l Hecyclin' Irish co-president exhibit may include the pres-ber of Recyclin' Irish who will Steiner. t
\ . 
! 
'I 
1\ 
~ . 

NOTRE DAlE 
RECYCLIII'IRISN 
ence of a former member of the Amish community, who would answer any questions relating to environmental issues or the 

-------------------------------------------------------------------..~------------------~-------------------r 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Being Normal 
OK, before you read 

Anne Hosinski
this, take a nice deep 

Wire Editor 
breath. Don't be 
ashamed. Just do it, it 

will make you feel a lot less stressed out. 
There, now don't you feel better? 

Anyway, have you ever thought about 
what it means to be normal? I have always 
considered myself a pretty normal person. I 
am a 20 year old, reasonably intelligent 
woman who grew up in a small midwestern 
town. I have six brothers and sisters, nine 
nieces and nephews and too many cousins 
to count. I'm an English major, w·hich 

means that I have some kind of employment 
in store for me in my future. Well, maybe. 
I'm pretty normal ... right? 

Well sure, all of those outward attributes 
I possess make my exterior seem quite nor­
mal. But when you get to know me and dis­
cover the little quirks of my personality. you 
can safely determine that I am quite abnor­
mal. I sing in a classical choir. I prefer 
music written centuries ago to more mod­
ern stuff. I write poetry. I know every line 
from the Blues Brothers. I play the piano. I 
sing in my sleep. I can't tell a good joke to 
save my life. Lets face it, I'm strange. 

But here's the problem. If you look at my 
outward qualities and see my social status 
and family background and assume that I'm 
a normal person, then I've just proven you 
wrong. Think about it for a minute. When 
you know of a stranger's strange and inter­
esting trait, do you automatically assume 
that person is abnormal without getting to 
know them? 

We all are guilty of this to some extent. 
When was the last time you picked a desk 
in class away from someone who is differ­
ent than you? When was the last time you 
stared at your feet when passing someone 
with differences in the hallway? When was 
the last time you retreated to the corner of 
the dining hall to avoid someone different? I 
know that I do this, rather subconsciously, 
everyday. 
If we want Notre Dame to be a place 

where we can celebrate the differences we 
share, we have to get past our clouded 
ideas that physical differences (whether of 
color, race or sexual orientation) are bad. 
We have to celebrate our differences rather 
than suppress them in order to get beyond 
the stereotype that "different" is inherently 
bad. We need to stop seeing people like me, 
a white, middle-class woman, as the only 
'normal' people that live on this campus. 
We need to see that we truly are one body, 
one spirit, one community-not a divided 
community of abnormal races and ideas. 
I suggest that instead of a few students · 
rallying against University policies, we take 
a step forward and sit down next to some­
one who you don't know in the dining hall 
or LaFortune and start up a conversation. 
Everyone has a story to tell, so why don't 
we just listen. 

Then maybe we can all realize that the 
strange traits of others, really are normal 
after all. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Laura Petelle  Sarah Dylag  
Tim Logan  Krisri Klitsch  
Erica Thesing  Graphics  
Sports  Mark Higgins  
Anthony Bianco  Production  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Colleen Gaughen  Lab Tech  
John Daily  

Th~ Obs"rv"r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish.,d Monday through Friday "xc.,pt during "xam and vacation periods. Th" Observ"r is a member of rhc Associated Pr.,ss. All r"production rights arc reserved. 
Friday, April 17, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 


Tired Minnesota students call an end to hunger strike 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
Hunger strikers conveniently ended their eight-day protest Wednesday in time for a Northrop Mall luncheon held by the YMCA. 
While none of the strikers accepted the sandwiches and soda, they announced an end to their fast at a campus rally attended by more than 100 people. 
"We're calling an end to the strike to maintain our mental strength to pursue our educations," said Chinese program graduate student Ben Ridgway. 
Protesters said they stopped the fast to get their strength back so they would be better able to negotiate with administrators for a fourth full-time professor in the Chinese program. 
During their eight-day fast some protesters shed up to 13 pounds and noticed a loss of concentration and fatigue. 
• YALE UNIVERSITY 
Professor shot near campus 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Yale School of Medicine professor Eiji Yanagisawa is in fair condition after suffering two gunshot wounds around midnight Monday night in his office's York St. parking lot. A clinical professor of surgery in the oto­laryngology department, Yanagisawa had returned to the office of his private practice to retrieve some charts, and he was leaving with his wife June when confronted by two people demanding money. During the confrontation, one man shot Yanagisawa twice in the collarbone, and the subjects then fled the scene with Mrs. Yanagisawa's purse. Yanagisawa entered St. Raphael's Hospital around 11 :45 p.m., his son Ken said. The New Haven Police Department did not say if they had apprehended any suspects yet. Police are still looking into the shooting. "The investigation is still continuing," Sgt. Direk Rodgers said. "We're pursu­ing a lot of areas." 
• UNIVERSITY OF FlORIDA Students call accusation racist 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

Junior Marc Poe believes Manoucheka Thermitus was the target of racism when she was accused of intimidating a group of her dormitory hallmates. "This is a good example of the institutionalized racism that still exists in this country," Poe said as he stood among a group of protesters picketing the University of Florida Division of Housing Wednesday afternoon. Protesters picketed to show support for the Haitian sophomore, who had been charged with intimidating a group of white women but not threat­ening or assaulting them. These charges were dropped Wednesday at a meeting. between Thermitus and the Division of Housing. Other com­plaints from the Buckman residents were that she let her phone ring too loud and that Thermitus would not clean the kitchen, one of her assigned chores in the cooperative dormitory. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
' 
r,,....:.-·/' ························· 
H L 
, j 
j
Friday l ~ 50 40 Saturday ~ 63 36 Sunday ,,,,, 56 40
CA Monday CAr· 56 39
'''' \ 
Tuesday , .~ 58 37 
-~~-.>-··./ :__;....-~ ....._.,_./~· '"t..i'> 

4,Q,~8Q.Q (f  ~ ~  
Showers  T·storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
v,.. Assocl8ted Press GraphicsNet  

• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNiA -SAN DIEGO 
Campus TV punished for airing porn 
LA JOLLA, Calif. 
The members of Koala TV, one of UCSD's student-run televi­
sion shows, have learned the hard way that there are limits to 
what can be shown on television, and that the First 
Amendment is not all-inclusive. Last Tuesday, Koala TV aired 
a copyrighted pornographic program which its members had 
not received permission to air. The program ran for approxi­
mately one hour. While the program was running, station 
members allegedly used obscene language to refer to the 
woman. Several Warren TV members viewed the show and 
reported the incident to Student Cable Works (SCW), the orga­
nization that regulates student-run television on campus. On 
Wednesday, SCW rescinded Koala TV's broadcasting rights as 
a result of the incident. Koala TV President Chris Lightbody 
officially withdrew the show's membership as a student orga­
nization. "We met with [Koala TV] and explained that the inci­
dent was totally inappropriate," Student Organizations and 
Leadership Office Media Advisor Randy Woodard said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY Professor files suit to gain tenure 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
A professor has filed a lawsuit against Kentucky, accusing the university of violating its contract when denying him tenure. Roger Horne, a history professor at Prestonsburg Community College, alleged last week in a lawsuit that the university violated its written contract with him when he went up for tenure because, Horne said, they allowed him more time than he should have been given. "The basic claim that was sent was I was supposed to have a six-year probationary period. It indicated that I could apply some of the time I had teaching before I came to UK, and so I was very eager to try to get through the tenure process," said Horne, who originally taught at community colleges in Oklahoma. "I had been teach­ing for about 10 years; everything seemed to be in order." When Horne went up for tenure in 1995, he said he figured "everything was being done in good faith." The following year he turned in his portfolio and waited for the committee to make its decision. 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 

Albany  69  42  Grand Forks  51  32  Reno  62  34  
Billings  48  34  Houston  70  61  St. Louis  58  42  
Boston  70  49  Miami  84  72  San Diego 68  52  
Charlotte  78  61  Nashville  63  50  Seattle  62  42  
Detroit  56  36  Omaha  61  35  Tucson  74  41  


Chinese program, which now has two tenured professors and two tempo­rary professors. In February, Rosenstone approved a third tenured faculty position for fall quarter. 
After writing letters, signing peti­tions and attending meetings for three years, Chinese program stu­dents saw the hunger strike as their last recourse. 
The fast got underway last Wednesday when 27 hunger strikers demanded university president Mark Yudof grant them a fourth tenured professor and an equal, independent department of East Asian languages and literatures.

Liberal Arts Dean Steven 
Only 11 stuck it out until the end.

Rosenstone said he is pleased the stu­
Many who dropped out cited health,dents decided to end their strike and 

school and work as reasons they

he will continue to welcome dialogue could not continue. At the request ofwith the students. 
university officials, Boynton Health

Throughout their mostly peaceful 
Service nutritionists periodically

demonstration, protesters alleged 
checked on the starving students. 

four years of understaffing in the 
·-w 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICE~ page 3 
• WORLD NEWS BRiEFS 
Paula Jones plans to appeal lawsuit dismissal 
DALLAS 
Breaking her silence, a tearful Paula Jones said today she will ask an appeals court to reverse a judge's dismissal of her lawsuit and force President Clinton to stand trial for sexual harassment. "I believe what Mr. Clinton did to me was wrong and the law protects women who are subjected to that kind of abusive power," Mrs. Jones said, her husband at her side. ller decision to appeal a federal judge's decision to throw out her lawsuit against the president sets the stage for a lengthy extension of her legal battle over an alleged hotel room advance in 1991. 
Militant Palestinians pledge more suicide bombs 
DAMASCUS, Syria 
Suicide bombs will continue to explode in Israel no matter what the Palestinian Authority and Israel do to stop them, a mili­tant Palestinian leader said Thursday. "There will be new suicide attacks and they will not stop -no matter how much Israel and the (Palestinian) self-rule authority try," Ahmed Jibril told The Associated Press. In an interview on the 33rd anniversary of the founding of his group, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, Jibril said the future belonged to the Arabs. "The Israeli state will be eliminat­ed from the earth because the United States and Europe will abandon Israel and will find their interests lie with us, when we are strong." He was dismissive of Israel's upeom­ing eel•~bration of its 50th anniversary. "History cannot be measured by two years or 10 yPars. The future will be for this nation." 
New plan emerges for Indonesian bank recovery 
NEW YORK 
Moving doser toward resolving a major obstade to economic recovery in Indonr.sia, bankers and government officials said Thursday they have made progress on easing repayment terms for Indonesian bu~inesses owing nearly $RO billion to foreign lenders. In a joint statement issued after two days of talks, negotiators said they have formed sub­committees to hammer out details of a debt repayment plan. The smaller groups will begin meeting immediately, and the full com­mittee will reconvene for more talks next month. Th(~ meetings were marked by "con­structive and positive discussions" between Indonesia and its lenders, the offieials said in the statement. The new repayment plan would be voluntary and require the consent in each case of both the debtor and its credi­tors. 


S&P 500: 
Composite1108.17 Volume:
9076.57 
-11.15 699,570,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
10!111'·\:S) TICKER 'lil CHANGE $ CiA!N PR!rE 
:SEOI'IlAR:-..1 INC·WTS :SI'R'-fW KR.t\9 1.000 2.12'; \H:S!l..\TI·\:S RAtiEL Blil_\t~ K2 ..i5 0.1175 1.9.1!! SI'Hi LASS I:SC srn; 70.50 6.125 14.!1 t:l CONS ECT I:SC csKr 69.65 1.219 2.969 STROUDS l:SC STRO ~5.16 0.!!75 2.!! l.l 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
lT'iO,\:ST CORI' en ~b ~9 16.St>3 19.063 .·\:1.1ER IVfl. l'f.TE All':S 2S.!IS 0.71!! 2.06.1 SU:S!M:SU. I!OMF.S SU:Sil 22.7.1 0.625 2.125 OIDAX I:SC A"'!E:S 21.88 I 09~ .l.906 I'CL ld{llll!' INC PCCll 20.00 !.SilO 6.00() 



Juries convict three in Ngor's death 
Three juries find gang members guilty of actor's murder 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
LOS ANGELES 
In an extraordinary case involving three juries in one courtroom, three gang members were convicted Thursday of murdering Haing Ngor, the Oscar-winning actor who survived the killing fields of Cambodia only to fall prey to street crime on the streets of Los Angeles. 
The verdicts, reached coincidentally the day after Pol Pot's death, should end speculation that Ngor was the victim of a political assassination, said a spokesman for the Dr. Haing S. Ngor Foundation. 
"Despite all the early rumors and speculation, this was another example of crime in the streets," said Jack Ong, executive director of the foundation that campaigns against gangs and drugs. 
Three juries who deliberated separately on ea·ch defendant's case returned guilty verdicts on first­degree murder and second-degree robbery against Tak Sun Tan, 21, Jason Chan, 20, and Indra Lim, 20. 
Separate juries were chosen for the nearly two­month trial because one defendant made statements implicating the others. 
None of the panels determined who actually pulled thB trigger, but they ruled that one of the men had a gun the night the "Killing Fields" star was shot to death in a holdup behind his ChinatowQ-area apart­ment on Feb. 25, 1996. 
Ngor's niece, Sophia Ngor, left the courtroom in tears after the vr.rdicts were read. The defendants' families were quietly tearful but the three men showed no emotion. They admitted to being members of the Oriental LazyBoyz street gang but maintained they didn't kill the 55-year-old Ngor. 
Chan faces up to life in prison without parole. Tan and Lim each faee 25 years to life. 
Ngor, a doctor who escaped from Cambodia in 1980, won an Academy Award for the 1984 movie "The Killing Fields," in whieh he portrayed Dith Pran, the Cambodian assistant to a New York Times reporter. 




TOrnado rips through Nashville 
ASSOCIATED PRESS injured. 3 or 4 miles. 
An hour later, a. tornado Gov. Don Sundquist 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. spawned by the same declared Nashville a disas­
Tornadoes tore through storm killed Paul and ter area: Several state Tennessee and Arkansas Peggy Kolwyck in Roellen. buildings were damaged, Thursday, blowing out Tenn., about 50 miles east including the Capitol and windows and ripping off of Manila. the James roofs in downtown T h e i r K. Polk Nashville and splintering b 0 office
d i e s 'pARTS OF THE STADIUM
mobile homes in rural w e r e building. areas earlier in the day. found 200 WERE BEING TOSSED T h e Four people, including Tennessee
to 250 AROUND LIKE POPSICLE a little brother and sister, feet from , Oilers' foot­were killed in rural parts their trail-STICKS. I VE NEVER SEEN ball stadi­
of Arkansas and er home, ANYTHING UKE IT.' um. which Tennessee. which was is about 
.. People heard it but t o r n one-third couldn· t see it," Manila, apart. RODNEY STANFORD complete, 
Ark., firefighter Michael White said of the early­morning twister that was cloaked by darkness and sheets of rain. 
"It passed probably 400 yards from my house. There was so much light­ning and rain I didn't see anything." 
The earlier storm hit Manila, in northeastern Arkansas about 230 miles west of Nashville, about 3 a.m., killing Casey Lomax, 3, and Brittany Lomax, 5. Their parents were 
Thursday afternoon another tornado struck Nashville. 
About 100 people were injured. Cecil Whaley of the Tennessee Emergency Management Agency said most of the injuries were from flying glass and none was believed life-threaten­ing. 
Whaley said it appeared a single tornado touched down east of downtown at about 3:45 p.m. and then skipped aeross the. city for 
also was damaged. 
"Parts of the stadium were being tossed around like Popsicle sticks. I've never seen anything like it," said Rodney Stanford, who was at a nearby restaurant. 
The twisters were part of a series of storms that hit Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky and Tennessee late Wednesday and Thursday. More than two dozen people were injured in the earlier storms, and 
65 rallroad cars were knocked ofT the track near Flora, Ill. 
At the Lomax family's trailer home, the twister left little more than rows 
· of cinder blocks that had supported the home. splin• tered wood and a child's scooter on a pile of rubble. The children were thrown from the trailer and were 
· found near each other. 
Manila is a half-hour east of Jonesboro, where four students and a teacher were killed in a schoolyard ambush last month. 
''If there was any area of our state that did not need to experience this, it would be northeast 
Arkansas,"  Gov.  Mike  
Huckabee said.  
In  Tennessee,  Dyer  

County Executive James McCord said seven houses and four mobile homes were damaged in his county, but only one other person suffered serious injuries there. A woman and her daughter escaped injury. 

Friday, April 17, 1 998 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Norris: One cannot escape daily routine 
By JACKIE HENSLER 
News Wrirer 

Kathleen Norris, a poet and award-winning author, addressed the "dailyness" of life's routine, the role of moth­erhood, and the difficulty of overcoming the stereotypes of "woman's work" last evening for her 14th annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality at Saint Mary's College. 
Norris, author of "Dakota," "The Cloister Walk" and the forthcoming "Amazing Grace," based much of her talk on per­sonal narrative. 
"Stories can express what is really going on and identify the deeper meaning," Norris said. "I am really here to tell stories, to discuss weaknesses and fail­ures that have taught me more than any success can." 
"Education ~ meant to free women from oppression, but our daily work of cooking, laundry and dusting is always with us. None of us can escape the ... these menial jobs," she said. 
Adding a hint of light humor, Norris continued with a discus­sion of God's plan in connecting the ordinary activities with the act of play and fun. 
"As I approach a sink of' dirty dishes, I lose sight of the fact that God is inviting me to play," she said. "Hepetition is both ordinary and necessary." 
Norris relayed a portion of Sylvia Plath's "The Bell Jar" as an example for the necessity of menial jobs. 
"The main character, Esther, did not wash her hair for three weeks, claiming that it was an unnecessary, tireless job," Norris said. 
"In light of spirituality, we realize that caring and washing hair is necessary ror self­preservation. Lack of care reveals depression and indiffer­ence," she said. 
Norris' award winning book "Dakota" reveals the author's personal narrative regarding her family. It is a book about Norris' faith unfolding with the unveiling of ordinary stories. 
In her latest book, "Amazing Grace," Norris continued her examination of a spiritual world rooted firmly in the chaos of daily life, which chal­lenges people's fears of difficult theological concepts. 

OREAr WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant &Lounge Open 7 Days 

Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 {219) 272-7376 • 130 Dixieway South 
(U.S. 31 in Roseland) at Howard Johnson's, South Bend, IN 
THE.WEEKEND TO END ALL WEEKENDS 
BOIAPAILOO!A '98 I 

,,~.;,~~Dd 
. ' & ... -.VIALK-MAMA 
The essence o~ pimp 
Skaturday, April 18 South Bend ( 

kaba
Ska champs~ 

1\i 
~;
Introducing. . . ~ 
~.:.•···ff!.· i
·.· , .. ··.1·.
..~.a-:·.~

~-1\a ~>
'{!~

. . ""'\ ·~ 
.. 
~ 

. tl•, 
. 

.-........ 
U. of illinois' Best Bana 
Dii 

All shows start 10_·30 
$1 off all covers before 11 :30 with this ad 
Fisher hosts Regatta tomorrow 
By ANNE HOSINSKI 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's lake will be the location for this Saturday's 12th annual Fisher Hegatta. 
Race organizers expect fif­teen boats from various resi­dence halls to compete in the event which will feature both a men's and women's race, as well as a possible club race if there is enough interest. The winner of each race will receive. a pizza party for their dorm and free T-shirts for members 
c2r1LiiSE rEcyclE 
1!b£ ~:JSE:fVE:f 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• UlErl l:xx>ks ro..ght arrl sold 
• 25 cate:;~ories of Books 
• 25,000 Hardback ar.d Paperback i:ooks in stock 
• CUt~f-Print Sfftrch Service: $2.00 
• Jlfpraisals large arrl mall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232.-8444 
of the boat crews. 
The Regatta was started by Fisher Hall to "promote healthy interdorm competition and give everyone a chance to get out­side and celebrate the warm weather and the coming of summer," said Hegatta Commissioner Steve Miller. "The race itself is a homemade boat race and really is a great celebration of spring." 
In addition to the race, there are several other activities planned for the Hegatta. 

Spectators will have chances to win gift certificates for Macri's Deli and Papa John's. The Regatta will also feature a free dunk tank to take shots at ~->uch campus personalities as dwm­istry professor Xavier Creary and Jeff Shoup, acting director of Hesidence Life. 
The Regatta, sponsored by Fisher llall, tho Notrn Dame Alumni Association, Coea-Cola, Subway Sandwiches & Salads and Papa John's Pizza, will begin at 1 p.m. 

RYan. HaPPY 21st BirthdaY! 

KeeP tradition alive: PartY hardY with your friends. 
•REMINDER• 

-National Youth Sports Program Students­
-Summer Service Project Students­
-Leadership Interns­
esc 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Summer Service Program ORIENTATION 
APRIL 19th (Sunday) 
9:00-NOON 

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
SSP Students PLEASE BRING:­
•Your completed Information Sheet and a • Personal Statement 
See you Sunday! 

... . .. . . . . . . . ....-. . --.. . . . . . . 

~-


Merllorial Service iri Celebration of the Life of Dr.-· rs ine A. Peters 



Wednesday April 22, 1998 3:00 p..m. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart University of Notre Dame 
• 

' . 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 17, 1998 
independence from Great efforts of African nations to gain Britain after a lengthy struggle political autonomy. 
Freedom 
to obtain political freedom. "[African Freedom Day] is a One year later, Ghana and way of reflecting on past
continued from page 1 
seven other newly recognized achievement, but more impor­African nations met to discuss tantly on tasks which lie ahead
dance from Africa, the 
how they could collaborate as in the struggle for building aCaribbean, and the Americas. 
independent countries. At this political unity ... [The celebra­
The history of African 
meeting, leaders declared April tion at Notre Dame] is an effort
Freedom Day dates back to 
15 African Freedom Day, a day to connect with that tradition,"
1957 when Ghana, led by 
to commemorate the successful explained Kougniazonde.
Kwame Nkrumah, gained its 




PI~ IME~ 
SPACE FOR YOUR GRADUXI1JOND 
check out the 




ivina oowt.Bii~ 
-dLC)UNGE .~~~ 
WITH RETRO FURNISHINGS" 
OPEN GRADUATION \VEEI~END 
FRIDAY, l\IAY 15, 5-11Pl\1 SATlJRDAY l\1A1~ 16, 5-11Pl\1 SUNDAY ~fA.Y 17 8-8Pl\I 

3 Newly Acquired Properties Available for Fall Semester (1998): 
Property-1 t •••4-5 students Property-2 .... 6-8 students Property-3 .... 2 students 
Properties Are All Contiguous 

Plenty of Parking and Common Space 
Security Systems Stove and Refrigerators­Free Use of Washer and Dryer Nice Condition 

CALL DAVE OR CARO.LYN FOR DETAILS 291-2209 
CDF 
continued from page 1 

lence prevention, Junior Marjorie Hill explained the program of "resolving conflict creatively." This program trains children and their teachers in mediation so that if a conflict does arise, some­one can step in and work to resolve it in a peaceful way. 
The "aim of the program is not only to reduce violence but to increase care and civility," according to Hill 
One idea stressed through­out the evening was the need to fill children's time with pro­ductive activity. 
Senior Sarah Johnson point­ed out the need for children to I-participate in after school 
activities. 

"I don't think I can empha­size enough how important after school activities are ... they help foster a child's sense of self," she said. 
Johnson explained how con­sistent and constructive after school activities can combat academic, self-esteem and crime problems. 
Junior Molly McLeod shared ideas on mentoring which she 
:"''i~~l )! r:v!'l"'u n i c a ti o n a n d T h e a tr e 
\ . presents 
WilHam 
Shakespeare's 
~--$-.; . 
• 


had gained from the confer­ence. She explained that. in effective mentoring, the "role goes beyond being just a friend·," and the goals, man­agement and implementation are consistent. 
The CDF conference was attended by people represent­ing diverse faith backgrounds. 
"I was amazed at the spiritu­al overtones and foundation on which the CDF is established," said senior Andrea Ray, who attended a series of workshops on faith-based advocacy. 
In her presentation last night, Hay explained that one issue which many churches must deal with is establishing relationships with child care agencies run in the church. She suggested that churches need guidelines similar to those of government affiliated organizations to ensure that the children are receiving the best possible care. 
H.epresentatives from HeadStart, the South Bend 
Boys  and  Girls  Club  and  
Broadway  Christian  
Parish-United  Methodist  

Church were in attendance for the presentation, along with residence hall service commis­sioners and interested stu­dents and faculty. 
Attention ND/SMC/HCC Freshmen!! You are invited to celebrate the end of your first year of college on Friday, April 17 from 7-9 pm at Saint Mary's College Haggar student center! 
Featuring Music By The Dunn Brothers & Letter 8! Free Food, Fun, Good Music! 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wednesday, April 22 -7:30p.m. Thursday, April 23 -7:30p.m. Friday, April 24-7:30p.m. Saturday, April 25-"Z.i30 p.m. Sunday, April 26-2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Y{ashington Hall 
Reserved Seats -$8 Senior Citizens-$7 Students-$6 
Tickets •t a·1aiia:•. ,af,->~lt.r:r .)·.,,~.-,.t Cer:·,, Tic-:: Or•,-. MasterCard and VISA ord"" cal S3h:128 
Friday, April 17, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Holocaust art exhibit to open 

By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
Having already explored liter­ature and lilm, the Notre Dame Holocaust Project will turn its attention this weekend to the role of art in Holocaust studies. 
On Sunday, five musicians will present thn Holocaust Memorial Chamber Music Concnrt, fol­lowed by the opening of a pho­tography exhibit by Jeffrey Wolin entitled "Written in Memory: Portraits of the Ilolocaust." 
The concert will feature music written in a eoncPntration camp that was only recently rediscov­ered. The composer, Viktor. Ullmann, wrote more than 20 pip,ces during his time in the Theresienstadt camp. Ullmann wrote his String Quartet Number Three, which will be performed at the concert, one year befor:e being sent to Auschwitz. where he died in the gas chamber on October 17. 1994. 
Ullmann's legacy of musical and literary works document cultural life in Thcrcsienstadt, according to associate music professor Carolyn Plummer, who will play the first violin in Sunday's concert. 
Following the concert, the Snite will officially open the Wolin photography exhibit. Wolin, currently a professor at Indiana University, began pho­tographing Holocaust survivors in 1988. Before taking the still photographs. Wolin videotaped each survivor telling his or her story of life during the Holocaust. lie later chose verba­tim portions from their tale and wrote the words directly on the photograph. 
This unique method helps per­sonalize the event, according to Chuck Loving. associate director of the Snite Museum. 
"He's giving the individuals who survived the Holocaust their own voice." Loving said. "He becomes a vehicle or a tool for the individual to express themselves." 
The Snite exhibit, which will be open through May 10, fea­tures 12 of these photographs. 
Student Body President Student Body Vice-President SAB Coordinator RHA President Executive Treasurer Executive Secretary 
Senior Class President 

Board of Governance 1998-1999 
Sarah Siefert Nancy Midden Janel Horvath Gina Guerreso Ann Marie Roche Colleen Thomas 
Madeline Carp~~!lli 


• • Loving thinks that it is important Junior Class President . Angie.little . 
to see these perspectives. 
Sophomore Class PresidB:!!t

"You get the point of view of
Where Are you Living This Fall? 
12 different people who shared 
a common experience. I think
1\;r'\_ 
Admissions· Commissioner

that makes it real," he said. 
"There are some people who
~ ) NOTRE DAME 
Alumnae Commissioner 

assert that the Holocaust never 
Athletic Commissioner

happened. What's even more 
frightening is that there arc chil­
~APARTMENTS 
Campus Clubs·Gommr~ssl~

dren who arp, not learning about
•Conveniently located 4blocks from 
Elections (onr~mi!ssloner.

it in school. The fear and the 
danger that [people think] it
Campus 

never happened makes it possi­ble to happen again." The coneert will begins at 2:30
•Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and 
p.m. Sunday in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite and will

Duplexes Available 

be followed at 3:45 p.m. by the 
official opening of the photo
•August-May Lease or 1Year Lease 
exhibit. 
with a"free" months rent 
•NO WAITING LIST 

Managed By Real Estate Management Corportation 
234-9923 





ProFessors Take Piat 1es. 
Need a little separation from the establishment? How does 30,000 feet sound? Well, thanks to our special Amtrak® student discounts, there's never been a better time to choose the cool, casual comfort ofan Amtrak train. 
A5 a special offer, show us your face, a student ID to match, and give them the code "Y814" and you get 10% off. Better .yet, if you have a Student Advantage Card stuffed away in your book bag, you get 25%. 
Go home. Visit friends. Even go back for summer classes if you have to? All at up to 25% off regular fares. You do the math. Good for travel between April 13 and June 20, and includes any of the over 500 destinations Amtrak serves. 
Hurry. Seats are limited {this isn't a term paper you can blow off to the last minute). For more information on fares & reservations, call your travel agent or Amtrak at 1-800-USA-RAIL. Trains depart from the Amtrak station at 2702 W. Washington Ave. in South Bend. 

Offer shown is for coach class travel only and is subject to availability. Reservations are required. No multiple 
discounts. Fares, schedules and restrictions are subject to change without notice. Blackout dates may apply. 
Not valid for Autotrain, peak Metroliner, or Canadian portion of ViaRail. 
-
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 17, 1998 
Poorman: Sexual love requires full commitment 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Sainr Mary's News Ediror 

Contemporary perspectives on the role of sexual inter­course in relationships were the main focus of a lecture by Father Mark Poorman, associ­ate professor of theology. 
Healthy orgasm, mutual con­sent, love and marriage were among the topics covered in the talk. given Wednesday night at Saint Mary's. 
Poorman observed that opin­ions involving sexuality and the Catholic Church have changed over the years. The Bible and the word of the Lord remain the same, however. 
"We need to provide talk about Catholic ethics," Poorman said. "By doing so, we can then put Catholic sexu-. al teaching into a context depending on that of the cul­ture we come from." 
He continued, saying that our culture finds this teaching "hard to swallow." 
Healthy orgasm does not take into account the feelings of others, according to the professor. It is in this category that one's urges need to be satisfied physically, and the context in which it is done is not of importance to those people. 
"Hooking up and looking at soft porn magazines are ways of satisfying one's needs," he stated. "They are ways that one can take care of sexual 
... EARN CASH BY . ', DONATING 
You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$ I 500 if you donate alone (first visit) +$ 500 if you show college I. D. (first visit) 
$20oo TOTAL! 

+$1 Qoo per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice 

HELP US SAVE LIVES 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.J). 
Come to:  Hours:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  Tu-F: 9:00-6:00  
515 Lincolnway West  Sat:  8:00-5:00  
South Bend, IN 46601-1117  234-6010  

TITANIC (PG-13) DTS 12:00 4:00 8:15 OBJECT OF MY AFF. (ffi13) 1 :30 4:20 7:00 9:40 
L.OSTNSPACE(PG-13) DTS 1:15 4:15 7:10 10:00 CITY 0 F ANGELS (FG-13) 11:45 2:15 4:40 7:20 9:50 SPECES(PG) 12:30 2:45 5:00 7:30 9:45 ODD COUPlE ( PG-1 3) 
12:15 2:30 4:45 7:15 9:30 

Sat/Sun Mat. in [brackets] THE NEWTON BOYS (R) [1 :15] 4:30 7:30 10:00 
p A uLl E (PG)I1 2 : 3 0 I 
(2:45]5:00 7:15 9:15 AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) [1 :00)4:00 7:00 9:50 

urges without having any con­sequences." 
The second perspective Poorman presented was in the range of what most individuals can familiarize themselves with as the "moral ballpark area." From a mutual consent point of view, abstinence becomes a personal choice. 
"It is a common position in our culture to have mutual consent in any relationship," Poorman stated. "We must keep in mind that it is very important to make sure the other person is also signing on in agreement." 
Mutual consent is and has to be the bottom line of any rela­tionship, according to Poorman. When two individu­als enter into any relationship, it is important to stress the importance of communication. Antioch College, located in Ohio, has formed a policy that suggests students ask for the other's permission step by step during a romantic encounter. The school hopes that cases of rape and instances where students are taken advantage of can b_e eliminated through this policy. 
Th~ major argument against this perspective, according to Poorman. is that human digni­ty then enters into the picture and that sex should not be captured by contracts. 
The third perspective he addressed was love, which consists of mutual affection, 
sharing of the self, openness, and emotion, he said, all of which arc necessary for inti­macy to occur. 
"Is it right to have sex with someone you are friends with, or should it be viewed on a deeper level?" asked Poorman. "When you are in love, you need to make sure that that is the situation. Love involves commitment, a future, and a goal of having children with the other indi­vidual." 
Attraction and romance are wonderful things to possess, he explained, but he also encouraged the students to make sure that the one they truly love is the individual with whom permanence is an intended goal. 
The final aspect Poorman discussed was marriage. According to Catholic teach­ing, it is only acceptable for married individuals to have intercourse. 
Noting that in modern soci­ety, love and marriage do not always go hand in hand, Poorman acknowledged that it is sometimes hard to say that marriage is the ultimate bond holding two individuals togeth­er. 
"Marriage is the bottom line in the Roman Catholic teach­ing," Poorman said. "It is a closed question on what kind of love needs to be present in a relationship. Having public witnesses and raising children have been major components for marriages." 
The core of Catholic teach­ing is that of the future and fact of commitments, he urged. "Marriage is a fruitful commitment, and with love being a very difficult concept to understand, it helps to have a background of a few broken relationships to fully under­stand what it means to love another individual," Poorman said. "We need to be careful when saying 'I love you' to another, because one day you may find that statement to not be true." 

The four pillars of the Catholic Church are hetero­sexual. procreative. perma­nent and monogamous rela­tionships, Poorman said. 
"Love is a growing process, and to love someone and to be in love are two completely dif­ferent things," Poorman stat­ed. 
"Through his love, God offers us life, and through his love, males and females are able to come together and unite in the process of love," the lecturer concluded. 
Poorman, a former rector of Dillon Hall. is currently the chaplain-in-residence at 
Keough  Hall.  He  regularly  
gives lectures on  Christian  
ethics.  


starting at 1 :00 pm on St. Mary's Lake 
Featuring a Dunk Tank 
Regatta Website: http:/ /www.nd.edu/-­fisher/regatta/ 
Sponsors: Coca Cola Macri's Deli Notre Dame Food Services Notre Dame Alumni Association Papa John's Pizza Subway Sandwiches and Salads 
I I I 




SUPIII

I I I I ! I I ® 
MaTEL 

is tomorrow §cal~9 AJPIRTIIL li§ 




:NOTR!ail!l~o~l~ud~.!~~~~~.!~is!~~-OFF! M@bil : 
1 (no ID required) 1
I QUAUTY RATED I 
L----------------~~~~~:~~~2~~~!~~~-~ 
•PRIVATE IN ROOM  I  
JACUZZI SPAS (FOR 2)  I I  
•FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST  I  
I  
•FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN  I  
~  
•FREE LOCAL CALLS, FAX  
~  
•KITCHENETTES  ~  

lz72..9ooo I! 
Friday, April 17, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Down in front ... 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu Bundled up against the afternoon chill, Bookstore Basketball com­missioner Ben Troy watches a game yesterday. 
Gtravelmore 
Carlson 

Wagonlit

Traver 
PV
~-­
1723 S. BEND AVE. PH 219-271-4880 :FAX 219-271-4879 
NEXT TO THE ND CAMPUS 

AT TRAVELMORE/CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL WE HAVE BEEN SENDING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS AND I<'ACULTY TO EUROP:E FOR OVER 25 YEA,RS. LET OUR EXPERIENCED EUROPEAN SPECIALISTS 
PLAN  YOUR NEXT  TRIP TO  EUROPE.  OUR AGENCY  
OFFERS;  
STUDENT & FACULTY RATES  

-LOW AIRFARES TO EUROPE ­
RAIL PASSES ISSUED IN OUR OFFICE 
-WITHNOSERYICEFEE· 
DISCOUNnD EUROPEAN CAR RENTALS 
Yllll can 111/IIICIIhll wtJrldIIIIlS! 



Computer contest occurs Sunday 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Editor 
Notre Dame's computer pro­gramming contest will take place on Sunday from noon until 3 p.m. in 177 Fitzpatrick I I all of Engineering. 
Organizers plan for the com­petition to inc!ude 10 to 15 teams of up to two students each. The teams will work on seven problems developed by organizers of the project. 
"Basically it consists of six or seven problems in [the computer languages of] C or C++." said senior Mike Gillispie, one of the students involved in planning the con test. "The team that solves the most problems will win and, in the event of a tie, it will be left up to who solves them in the shortest amount of time." 
Winning students will receive $1 00 as the first prize. Second and third places will be awarded $50 and $25 respectively. Free food and drink will be offered to participants after the contest. 
Earlier this year, Notre Dame hosted a national computer pro­gramming contest, in which Gillispie participated. 

"[This weekend's contest] is only local," he said. "It is n way of getting people to practice. 
"The problems will be basic computer science problems," he added. "They are things that you would come across in a basic study of computer science, just in a fast-paced, timed environ­ment. They are not terribly difTI­cult, but they will take the entire time." · 
Anyone interested in partic­ipating can contact Gillispie by e-mail today or tomorrow at mgillisp@darwin. cc. nd. edu. 
SMC nursing students win honors 
Special to The Observer Leigh Skiles, Audrey Miller, Lori Neff, Kathryn Newton, Margaret Couturier, Samantha Sheets 
Nine Saint Mary's College nursing students will and Jennifer Groszek. be inducted into Sigma Theta Tau, the internation-Sigma Theta Tau recognizes outstanding schol­al honor society of nursing. on Friday, April 24 at arship and leadership in nursing and membership Goshen College. The Saint Mary's students hon-is selectively based on both academic achievement ored are Bridget Thomas, Molly Furey, Tamra and professional leadership potential. 
r-~--------------------------------------~
Think beyond your boundaries 
Graduating Seniors• .;. 
Travel is a very competitive and fast-moving business. We are looking for candidates, with a Bachelor's degree, for our fast-track, high­level management training program. If you are a dynamic individual looking for the opportunity of a lifetime to work for a global company, check out our college recruitment website. 
We have extended our application deadline! Apply online before April 21st www.careermosaic-uk.co.uk/bagrads/ 
BRITISH AIRWAYS:IIJ 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 


:~+++~++++++++++++•++++++++++++++++~ 
Introducing... : ! "CASTLE POINT SELECT" ! 

Desigrredfor tile Ultimate Conifort at Surprisingly Low + ~lo11tltly Rates -.Just ConJpare! 
+ Student Discount Available for 
&~~~!IIIIIiillii~­
+ Four-Month Rentals +
* UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED Corner of Mayflower
+ & Edison Roads
Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
+ +
+ 27.. Stereo Television 
+ +

+ Cherry Finished Furnishings 
+

+ Microwave. Toaster. Coffee Maker 
+

+ AJI Dishes, Cookware. Linens & New Bedding 
+

+ Plus tHllch Morel 
+ 

MilliON DOllAR RENOVATION + 
+ 

-/1( LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft) Starting at $494.00 
+

+ 
+ + 

*: LARGE Two Bedrooms (1,025 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 + aB. $149.00 per Person with Four Occupants + 
+ Jnclucled witlt rentals for a LIMITED time-FREE full privilege + membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including: + 
+

~ Ntw Fitness Center +Outdoor Pool +Beach Volleyball + Sauna;& Whirlpool + 3 Racquetball Courts ~ Indoor/Outdoor + 
+

+ Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts Basketball 
+

Hurry in for a Tour ofour Most Popular Apartme11ts While They Last! 
+ + Qtustl.e fniut Apartm.euts 
+ 
+ ClsHIIM,d@ I~R«UU + 272-8110 : 
+ + 
A A 

~++++++=~~!~~~~=++++++++~ 











OINT 
page 10 Friday, April 17, 1998 

~} 
·r 
( 
'[ 
;j 
i! 
' 
f 
: 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks 
MANAGING EDITOR Brian Rcinthaler 

AsSISTANT MANAGING EUITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .................. Matthew Loughran VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez ScENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag 
Kristi Kli tsch SAINT MARY's EI>ITOR ............. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
BUSINESS MANAGER Kyle Carlin 

AoVERTlSING MANAGER ......................... Kris Klein AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Hudat SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet Wt:B ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow CoNTROI.U:R ..................................... Dave Rogero 
The Observer is.thc independent newspaper published by the srudcms of the Universiry of Nom Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collrge. Ir docs nor necessarily reflect rhe policies ofrhc adminisrrarion ofcirher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily tho!><: ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available 10 all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 63 I -4542 Business Office 631-53U Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Sysrems 631-8839 Spons 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Sccne//Satnr Mary"s 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.] @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• THAT GUY IN THE HAllWAY 
Administration Allows Drinking But No Space 
Yes, we have Notre Dame Football, we have the Golden Dome, and we have the Notre Dame family. Ten years from now with a big fat ring and an even bigger, fatter pay check we will all smile when we.think of our Alma Mater. 
Don't get me wrong, and don't inter-
Bob Kerr 
pret this an "immatlt'!'e whim," but do 
you ever envy your friends at other 
schools? Do you ever get tired looking 
ten years into the future imagining life 
after Notre Dame? Do you ever get off 
the phone with a friend at another 
school, take a breath of "not-so-fresh" 
air, look at your schedule and say, 
"This sucks!"? 

We have Saint Mary's forest preserve and Colorado at Boulder has the Hocky Mountains. We have St. Joe's swamp, and Santa Cruz has the Pacific Ocean. We have Grape Road, and Tulane has Bourbon Street. We have South Bend, and Northwestern has a town known as Chicago. Auburn, well, it has south­ern girls, and the way they talk, "IIUAHI" 
. . I 
But that's the difference between them and us, right? After all, we are NO, and we have an academic reputa­tion to uphold. 
Right and wrong. Right because the difference between them and us is our geographical location, wrong because our recreational activity is no more righteous than theirs is. They surf and ski, and we drink. 
Other schools are known for their Greek systems, sunshine, drugs or big cities. We have none of that, but we do have our drinking. 
• DQONESBURY 

t!TTte ROCK,~ -7liN PAYS A~, 7Hc !JIJSlliNG aN­lliR Of=A MWIA CIRGJS, TOOAY 
A HO~-OUT7WNtu/7H 
7C:V £WI07Y HOll:i-~5/ 
Whether or not you admit it, drink­ing is the number one extracurricular activity on this campus, with exercise and volunteer activities coming in a distant second and third. University Park Mall or Frank's Red Hots? Frank's Hed Hots. Putt-Putt or Campus View? Cam'pus View. A petting zoo, or Finnigan's? Finnigan's. A case of Natty Light or a cup of coffee'! You get the point: there is nothing else to do in South Bend, unless, of course, you get creative and combine the case of beer with the Mall, Putt-Putt, or the barn­yard. 
As it always has been, drinking is an inevitable consequence of our environ­ment. We have all heard stories from the alumni; we have all heard stories from the "golden years." Football games, climbing the Dome and panty raids. Drunken nudity, defecation and athletics (sometimes all at once). I even heard stories of people getting kicked in the hallway. Open containers were a common sight for the rector. Back then, with the exception of a few current Zahmbies, they were bigger and "badder." They were crazier, but they held no less of a reputation. 
The point is that Notre Dame has always enjoyed the highest respect as an excellent institution, and it always wilL At the same time, Notre Dame's social life has always involved alcohol, and it always wilL Our consumption 
_ has also always been abusive. We may as well turn an abusive environment into a healthy environment, and add mature, social consumption to our stu­dent's resume. I am not promoting abusive con­sumption; in fact, this is what I see as the problem. And the problem with this problem is that we cannot elimi­nate consumption. Whether or not we are of legal age. we are going to drink, so we may as well drink with some class. We are known for our drinking, and despite Patty O'Hara's valiant efforts, there is no way around it. Drinking is our pastime, and if we 
/lJ/IefV Jll~ ...,,P.,ntu £UF<.'/&H 7HRIW CKJT 7!-{£: PAUlA JOI-.I&S CAse=, 5116l71P~71-IAN Ff?IJS77?All3 7H6 PLAINTiff. aoR!ft5, 5H& t.EFTHUN~ 
ey;JaJ/?.NAL./9751171£/ 

learn to accept it as an inescapable part of our identity, with the help of the University, or without its interfer­ence, we can enhance the drinking environment. We will be able to take pride in our pastime. 
I'm not saying the administration should be more lenient, because it really can't. It seems that every dorm has its own rules, but when I talk to friends at other schools, they are amazed we can "freely" drink in our rooms, and they are surprised Senior Bar is practically on campus. 
However, these same friends arc equally surprised when they hear about the Mad Dog, fights, and vandal­ism. 
What is the solution to this problem? 
'Every other school caters 
to its student's interests and needs, whether it is trav­eling, skiing, surfing, shop­ping, biking, hiking, etc. We are interested in socially consuming alcohol and we need space to do this. It might be unorthodox, but it's the truth. It always has been, and as long as Notre Dame is in South Bend, it always will be.' 
It's not tighter drinking regulations. If the University "cracks down" on cam­pus drinking, the only results will be an overwhelmed Office of Student Affairs, an increase in off-campus stu­dents, and an anti-social atmosphere. 
If we had another outlet, if we had the typieal college town or a recre­ational outlet, the University might be able to pull-off a dry campus. But not in this town, and not with these stu-
GARRY TRLTDEAU 
dents. We arc recreational drinkers, 
and recreational activities require 
recreational resources and facilities. 
Our Administration is spending 11 million dollars to renovate South Dining Hall, but the plans do not include a campus bar, liquor store or brewery. That's a shame, and consid­ering our interests, a misappropriation of funds. The older dorms have bars in the basements, but nothing behind them. In the eyes of an administration concerned with social space and increasing costs, those bars are a waste of space and economically dor­mant. I do not have an inside track with the administration, but it certain­ly did not lose any sleep over the clos­ing of Bridget's, and rumor has it that Pig Tostal might be history, thanks again to our considerate administra­tion 
We have a problem: Our administra­tion allows drinking, but it prevents, or eliminates, the safest, healthiest opportunities for us to socialize with alcohol. Instead, we have guys going off-campus, bringing sheep back to the dorm, and passing out in the hallway. 
Every other school eaters to its stu­dent's interests and needs, whether it is traveling, skiing, surfing, shopping, biking, hiking, etc. We arc interested in socially consuming alcohol and we need space to do this. It might be unorthodox, but it's the tq.1th. It always has been, and as long as Notre Dame is in South Bend, it always will be. 
As much as and in conjunction with football, drinking at Notre Dame is a tradition -a tradition that would ben­efit from a "Notre Dame facelift." 
Bob Kerr is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. His column appears every oth"er Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
' Every story has three sides to it-yours, mine, and the facts.' 
-Foster Meharny Russell 




VIEWPOINT
Friday, April 17, 1998 page 11 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Our Little Sermons 
Traditio~ally, we think of sermons being given exclusively in a church or m a synagogue, but there is an additional way in which sermons, can be given. Let me explain. 
We people give millions of little sermons each day in how we react. do, or say to each other wherever we chance to meet and perhaps with better results because of their intimacy, remem­brance and one on one. 
~orne examples: a smile. (It opens people up). Saying thank you. b~mg co~~teous and gracious. Wishing each other a good day. A fnendly dtalogue. Complimenting a woman (wife or girlfriend, sis­ter mother, grandmother), on her pretty hairdo, dress or ensem­ble, or cute shoes. The same goes for a husband, boy friend, father, son or brother. Compliments add so much to one's self­este~m because one notices, cares and appreciates beauty. 
It IS understandable that there will be days when we aren't up to par and can't respond in kind. That's O.K. and we pray to the Lord !hat we'll feel better tomorrow. Having an uncomfortable day glVes us an opportunity to appraise our attitudes. strengths and weaknesses. · .. 
Miss Helen Adams Keller (1880-1968), was an American author (11 books), and lecturer who was deprived of her sight, hearing and speech (she was taught to communicate by touch), because of a severe illness at 19 months of age. Her education began at the age of seven, and she was placed in the hands ofAnna Mansfield Sullivan (Mrs. John A. Macy), who came to live with her. 
Miss Keller learned the deaf and dumb language by touch and learned to read by the Braille system and to write by using a speM cial typewriter. Her life was a world wide sermon, an inspiration and motivation to thousands of the afflicted and non-afflicted alike. She once remarked: "How many husbands know the color of your wife's eyes?" May I suggest a visit to your local library to sign out a biography, autobiography or her books for the divine and human influence they surely will provide. This remarkable, courageous and indomitable woman rests in her tomb in the Washington, D.C.• Cathedral (Anglican), awaiting the Resurrection. 
To emphasize my little way of giving sermons, allow me to share a true story that took place in the Middle Ages in Sienna; Italy. One day St. Francis ofAssisi (1182-1226), the founder of the Franciscan Order, invited Brother Elias to accompany him to Siennas town square to give a sermon. He accepted the invitation. 
After their arrival in Siennas town square, Francis commenced by wishing the people a good day, inquiring about their health, their employment and the students' studies, among other pleas­antries, then they started on their way home. Suddenly, Brother Elias asked Francis, "When are you going to give the sermon?" 
Francis replied, "Brother Elias. we just did." 
Brother Edward V. Courtney, C.S.C. Columba Hall April9, 1998 
In Defense of SOH 

Hegarding Gene Brtalik's letter to The Observer (actually an editorial) in a recent Observer: 
I am sorry he found the food so tasteless in South Dining Hall. I've eaten in SOli once or twice a week in the evening for many years and have found it to be very excellent food. In faet, when I have an out-of­town guest 1make it a point to cat one meal in SDH. 
Apparently Mr. Brtalik has not traveled much nor eaten at many restaurants. I have driven to 48 states and SOil food is tops! 
And griping about eating ofT of Styrofoam. Surely NOH students haven't regressed to such a point that they must be ofT on chins-if so, please bring a few pieces of your mother's imported European china and use that each time you eat in SOH. 
Notre Dame is a great place! Twenty years from now you won't look back on campus and remember the "Styrofoam episode," which is only temporarily! 
After all, we are "big boys" now. Let's stop complaining and get back to the books! Thanks for listening. 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A Different Cross to Bear
...,. 
There is a certain segment of the Notre Dame community that does not accept me for who I am. This intolerance and bigotry have been evident at speak outs, at lectures, in let­ters to the Observer, and in conversations with Notre Dame students and faculty. There are people in this community who want to make me feel that there is something wrong or sin­ful about who I am. The basis for the bigotry and intolerance that I have experienced is my belief that homosexual behavior is immoral. 
Just as it may be the case that homosexuals do not choose their sexual orientation, I did not choose to believe that homosexual behav­ior is sinful. Rather, the belief forced itself on me after I took the time to look into the issue and read what the Bible has to say about the matter. Just as I am unable to simply decide to believe that 2 + 2 = 17, I am unable to simply decide to believe that homosexual behavior is morally okay. 
Nevertheless, I am being pronounced a bigot. I am being labeled homophobic. I am being told, ironically, that I do not exemplify the virtue of acceptance. Maria Alevras' letter to the editor on April 16 suggested that people like me led a homo~exual friend of hers to commit suicide. In short, I am being con­demned as immoral for something it is not only impossible for me to change, but some­thing I think it would be wrong for me to change if I could. 
But my belief that homosexual behavior is immoral does not make me a bigot. It does not make me homophobic. It does not mean I do not accept homosexuals. And it is certainly not because of people like me that Maria's friend killed himself. I am a loving, caring, accepting, nurturing person. I accept my homosexual friends for who they are, and I put great effort 


Sophomore Sibs Weekend Pure Discrimination 
For almost two decades I lived my life free 
of discrimination, but last week I got my 
first taste of how it feels. I have never felt 
more excluded in my life than I did this past 
weekend as an only child during Notre 
Dame's annual Sophomore Siblings 
Weekend. 
As I tried to cope with my feelings of lone­
liness and inferiority, my fellow students, 
casually remarking that I should simply 
"invite a cousin or a friend," remained 
oblivious to the hurt they caused inside me. 
I have no control over how many brothers 
and sisters I have-I was simply born this 
way, and it's something I've had to live with 
my entire life. 
As early as grade school, I felt different 
from the other children who had brothers 
and sisters; I felt lost and alone in a world 
full of siblings. I had no brother to protect . 
me on the playground, no sister who could 
drive me to my friends' houses. I finally 
arrived at Notre Dame with the idea that I 
could forget my emotional void for four 
years, that the problem would disappear by 
itself. But how quickly I learned that I could ·not run away from my situation. I was 
forced to watch hundreds of my dassmates 
frolic about the campus with their brothers 
and sisters for a weekend, leaving me to 
wonder what to do with myself. 
But soon enough I realized that there are others who struggle with the same things I do, and I began to accept being an only child. And only now have I gained the courage to speak out against this blatant form of discrimination and be a voice for those who struggle in silence. 
We are not monsters, lonely and malad­into following Jesus' example of loving all peo­ple unconditionally. 
When people like Maria Alevras end their letters to the editor with a plea for "ACCEP­TANCE" in capital letters, they seem to be using the word in a sense that no one else uses the word. They seem to be using the word "acceptance" to mean "endorsement," since it is evident that they would not consider anything short of the belief that homosexual behavior is morally okay to be an acceptance of homosexuals. This is not only misleading, it also displays an ignorance of the greatest example of acceptance and love the world has ever seen, Jesus Christ. His unconditional acceptance and love for all people caused Him to overturn the tables of the money changers, and led him to condemn the behavior and teaching of the Pharisees. A theologian is not required to discern that Christ would not have endorsed homosexual behavior either. 
To close, I would like to point out that I draw a distinction between homosexual behavior and homosexual orientation. It is my convic­tion that a homosexual orientation is not wrong or immoral in any sense. This would be especially true if homosexuals have no choice about their sexual orientation, which I suspect is the case. I do believe, however, that homo­sexual behavior is immoral, and I will never endorse a lifestyle that involves behavior I believe to be immoral. So, I accept and love all people, but I do not endorse all lifestyles. In this attitude I imitate Christ. 
Please accept me in spite of it. 
Jonathan Crowell First Year Graduate Student April 16, 1998 

plan. This lone-ophobia must stop! We are 
real people with real feelings that can be seriously hurt by things that to you seem to 
be trivial. (Why, even as I composed this let­
ter, a "friend" of mine packed his things and said, "Well, I hate to leave you here in the lab alone like this, but then, I guess you're 
used to it by now," tJnaware of the scars his seemingly meaningless comment leave on 
my emotions.) 
Well, now is the time to send a powerful message to the administration, that we will not be suppressed, that we will stand for Sophomore Siblings Weekend no longer. A university should be a place of compassion, acceptance and love for people with all numbers of siblings. Only children should be . treated with the same respect and dignity as those persons with siblings, and should be welcomed as members of the Notre Dame community. 
I call upon everyone to keep pressuring the University in its efforts to bring about a change. When you pass by me walking to class, see me for the person I am and not for the number of siblings I have. And to my fel­low Only Children of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (OCND/SMC), I say do not be afraid-be proud of who you are. You are not alone, and you are not unwelcome. And above all, know always that there are peo­ple here who share your feelings and sup­port you. 
Mark A. Luczak 
Sophomore O'Neill Hall April 13, 1998 

justed. but regular people just like you and
Albert Horengerner 
your siblings. We do not choose to be only
Grad Studem 
children, nor is it some sort of disease that
Summers of 1967-1974 
can be magically cured by some 12 step
April 12, 1998 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--~----------------~~~~---------------------­

c 
s 
page 12-------------------~0BSERVER -----------------Friday,April17, 1998 
~· ·;<ilt."';:~~~
..
..'···.-.· 
-:: --­
~ 
-...~--: < ­


e en s 0 £ 
! \ '' 
p l' 
l
,I 

\
'I 
'I 
,; 
i 
{ 
1 
i 
i 
" 
,i 
.. 
Fact and Fictio11: Football, 



By DAN CICHALSKI Senior Scene Writer 
As another school year winds down and we head off for home, for summer jobs or for real jobs, we're sure to run into someone impressed by where we attend college. 
And there will be the usual questions_ "Do you go to the football games?" "What are they like?" "Do you see Bob Davie?" "What the heck is the problem with that team?" They'll probably mention "Rudy," too_ But we might also come across somebody with an admi­
ration for Notre Dame that goes beyond the gridiron. There are a lot of people out there in America who are awed by tales of everything under the Dome, and what you say may raise you up in their eyes_ 
We approach the end of the year when freshmen will go home and be quizzed on Notre Dame legend and lore and seniors will go out into the working world to talk about the Irish around the water cooler. So here is a potpourri col­lection of mostly facts -and a few rumors -about our University's history_ · 
Footballlegends of the Rockne era 


When it comes to Notre Dame, football is as good a place as any to start. 
'J'VE GOT TO Go, RocK, rr's ALL RIGHT. I'M NOT AFRAID. SOME TIME, ROCK, WHEN THE TEAM IS 
UP AGAINST IT, WHEN THINGS ARE WRONG AND THE 
BREAKS ARE BEATING THE BOYS-TELL THEM TO 
GO IN THERE WITH ALL THEY'VE GOT AND WIN ONE JUST FOR THE GIPPER. JDON'T KNOW WHERE I'LL BE THEN, ROCK. BUT I'LL KNOW ABOUT IT AND I'LL BE HAPPY.' 
GEORGE G!PP 

1op • The Four Horsemen -Notre Dame back­fielders Don Miller, Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley and Harry Stuhldreher-ride onward to victory during the 1924 Irish football season_ 
Aoovt_; :r.;n: Knute Rockne led the Irish to three National Football Championships during his 13­year career as head coach of the Irish. 
:1ig~n · George Gipp, Notre Dame all-star player from 1916-1 920, is shown drop-kicking a foot­ball. Gipp, aka The Gipper, died at the age of 25 after suffering a streptococcic throat infec­tion. 

Photos courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 



Friday,April17, 1998 ---------------~OBSERVER ---------------------------------------------page13 
0 
en 
0 
e 
•

xsehall and the Secret Servtce 

Before "Rudy," there was "Knute Rockne, All American," starring Ronald Reagan as George Gipp and Pat O'Brien as Rockne. Until recently, this movie was still shown to the incoming freshmen during the orientation weekend. 
Rockne had many famous friends in the sporting world who would come to visit him on campus. One who the players enjoyed seeing would often stand with the Irish coach, one stout, pudgy man with his arm around the other-the Rock and the Babe. 
Babe Ruth made several trips to see Rockne in South Bend, and one afternoon he even suited up and joined the team in blocking drills in practice on Cartier Field. 
When Rockne died in a plane crash in Kansas during Holy Week in 1931, his Holy Saturday funeral was broad­cast by CBS. President Herbert Hoover and the King of Norway expressed their regret on behalf of their coun­tries. and the Alma Mater was played for the first time. R(}ckne, with six playf~rs as his pallbean~rs, was then buried in South Bend's Highland Cemetery. 
.Just exaetly how Notre Dame athl•~tie teams adopted the name "Fighting Irish" is still disputed. While you may have heard four reasons already, here's just one example to give to the nr~xt person who asks why a university founded b~a Frcneh priest honors natives of tlw Enlf~rald Isle. 
In a 1909 football game against Michigan -who else? -when the "good guys" were losing and not playing par­ticularly well, Pete Vaughn shouted, "What's the matter 
with you guys -you're all 

Irish and you're not fight­ing." It may have developed from there. especially if tho press got a hold of it, since sports writers love nick­names. 
Of course, it was <dso a sports writer who dubbed Notre Danw's 1924 back­field "The Four llot·semen." In an article in the New York Herald Tribune on Oct. 19, 1924, Grantland THee opened his Notre Dame­Army game story with, "Outlined against a blue­gray October sky the Four llorsenwn rode again." The Irish won tlw game at Nt~w York's Polo (;rounds D-7 behind the. running of ­quick, try to namt~ tlwm before finishing this sen­tenee -Don Miller, Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley and Ilarry Stuhldreher. 
T ' to. l ' ' 1H : : iu I W iL:.J .I ("\~ii 
BeliPve it or not, there was a time when football was not the most popular sport on campus. When the University decided to make baseball a varsity sport in 1 S 9 1 -9 2 an d defeated Michigan 6-4 in the school's first game, our national pas­
b##t Former Notre Dame athlete John· p Henry Shillington lost his life during the 
execu­
Spanish-American War when the USS 
tives in
Maine was blown up. This statue, located 
attendance.
behind Gate 8 of the Joyce Center, hon­ors Shillington. The perfor­
The Observer/ Patrick Quigley 

mance led to tryout with
ttJp fff~ht! Adrian Anson introduced 
Cleveland Spiders and
Notre Dame to the sport of baseball in 
Sockalexis won a spot on the
1866. After graduating in 1871, Anson 
team. lie continued his outstanding
went on to play in the national associa­tion and became manager of the national hitting and the Cleveland fans began talking league Chicago White Stockings, now about the Spiders and their outstanding Indian, 
called the Chicago Cubs. He was induct­which soon became the nickname for the entire ed into the Baseball Hall of Fame in team. Ilis enjoyment of alr.ohol hurt his play,1939. 
though, and Sockalexis faded from baseball to
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
die a beggar at the age of 40. 
~f:Yff6m fif~fit The infamous baseball legend. Babe Ruth, was often seen at Knute Rockne's side during football prac­

tice. Athletics certainly serve an important role in
Photo courtesy of The Conlon Collection Online 
history and society, especially at Notre Dame. 
time found a permanent spot in the Notre Dame recre­
ational realm. One of the men who introduced baseball to the campus in 1866 went on to become the most illustrious 19th Century major leaguer. Adrian "Cap" Anson played for and managed the National League's Chicago White Stockings ­who are now the Cubs -and became the first player to collect 3,000 hits in his career. 
While 
Anson and his brother, Sturgis, a r e responsi­ble for bringing baseball to N o t r e Dame. there are a few 

other notable players who barely buttoned up an Irish uniform but still have left a lasting impact on the 
game. Carl Yastrzemski, the Major Leagues' last Triple Crown winner, played briefly at a time when freshmen were not eligible for the varsity team. Then there is Louis Sockalexis, a 
Penobscot Indian from Oldtown, 
Maine. The tall, dark-haired, 
handsome outfielder spoke 
with Maine's characteris­
tic "Down East" accent, 
and sure liked to 
drink. After playing 
for a year at lloly 
Cross, Sockalexis 
transferred to 
Notre Dame in 
1896. In a 
summer exhi­
bition game 
against the 
New York 
Giants at the 
Polo Grounds 
in 1897, 
Sockalexis 
homered off 
Amos Husie, a 
hustling hit 
that opened 

the eyes of the pro­f s ­But there are some interesting aspects of the past not associated with a ball or bat or playing field -well, at least not totally connected. 
A shortstop for three years and captain of the first varsity basketball team in 1897, John Henry Shillington spent five years in and out of the University. In 1897 he was expelled for good after meeting up with friends in Chicago following a basketball game. He missed the team bus back to South Bend and was dismissed 
from Notre Dame. 
Out of college, Shillington joined the Navy and was assigned to the USS Maine, which would soon be sent to Havana, Cuba, to protect Americans against the 
Spanish as hostilities betvveen the United States and Spain increased and war seemed imminent. 

In February 1898, the 1 ship exploded and sunk, which served as a eatalyst for the Spanish-American War in the Caribbean. Shillington was among those 

who died on the Maine. 

On Memorial Day 1915, Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels joined Notre Dame fac­ulty and students in dedicating a campus monument to Shillington. A mortar shell from the ship mounted on a five-foot pedestal with a plaque commemorating Shillington was dedicat­ed just north of where LaFortune Student Center sits today. It was eventually moved to a 
spot behind the main steps of the Adminstration Building and then, in 1990, to its current location outside Gate 8 of the Joyec Center. 
. t;IJ ' .\,'\f) PIFf L·.S 

Most of us are familiar ·with Corby Hall and the "Fair Catch" statue -it seems every one has to hav(~ a 
football reference, doesn't it'? ­
but just who the man \Vas is not as familiar. A chaplain with the "Irish Brigade" in the Civil War, Corby trav­eled America's battlefields before they were tourist attractions. A statue identical to the one fac­
ing the Basilica stands in Gettysburg, Penn., as well. 
The Civil War had quite an impact on Notre Dame, which nearly closed several 

times. After the war it was plagw\ and then the fire. You knovv, the big fire after which Fatlwr Edward Sorin said he. would rebuild the University even if it were all gone. It was then that Sorin decided to build a bigger main building with a golden dome atop it. Some told him it would be too expensive and maybe even too frivolous, so he went into isolation -refusing even food 
and drink -until he was satisfied. One final anecdote involves a president and those infamous tunnels beneath the campus. 
In March 1975, Gerald Ford came to Notre Dame to speak at the Joyee Center. The Secret Service naturally spent days inspeeting and securing the arena and the campus. Just before Ford's arrival, the agents thought they ha~ everything secure -unttl someone n•minded them of four miles of tunnels benrath the ground. Thr SeerPt Service had to call in more agents to inspect and secure the under-grounds. 
Now when the topic of Notre Dame arist>s, you'll haw something other than football to talk about. At least until August. 
. --------------..--~--~--~---~­
---·------~-----~---~~~~-~ 
-------·-­
Friday, April '17, 1998

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
2:!.­
! t 
\\ 
(~ 
<l
:i· 
i/ 
·'•' ., 
.J 'it! 
it 
;t 
:t 
'I,l,I 
I 
n 
:I 
' 
( 
By VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Spons Writer 

Despite their recent slump, the Belles are not singing a sad tune. Over Easter break. the Saint Mary's 
· tennis team (5-9) faced tough competi­tion and unfortunately did not add any wins to their record. 
Injury is top on the li'it of reasons why the Belles have been short on success. Sophomore Mary Woodka. who suffered a knee injury going into the match against Depauw last Thursday, has been an essential piece missing in the puzzle that the Belles are anxious to complete. Being such a small team, the loss of one of player has had a major impact. 
The recent chaos in the Belles' lineup comes at a very inopportune tim~ •. as the Belles have faced some of their toughest competition. Los1ng to Depauw 0-9 was a big setback for the team, as their hopes for a spot in the Midwest Invitational diminished vvith the loss. 
Corning back from a complete shut out, the team faced Alma College on Saturday afternoon. Although the team put up a good fight. they could not. pull off a·win and··lost,4~5. · 
The four~hour lllatch was not a .com* plete loss for the Belles, however. Many of the players came ttP as winners, despite the shufilingof positions to com• pensate for the loss of Woodka. 
Sophomore co;captain Katie Val~s t\.~I1d ··junior ~o-?~J>t,ai.rl 13etsy. Ge~et)l.t 

·. N().l.. doubles ~dl:titrthree setg,>7..(; ft" 2)~. z..6; 6-2••No. 2 doubles also felt the gratification ofsuccess. as sophomore Becky Kremer and sophomore Krista Eru;tburn defeattheir opponents,. 6-0. 7~ 
6 (7-3). . Vales, who haslwen on top of ber game, came clo~ toac()mplete shutout of her opponent, 6~1. 6..0. Gemmer also controlled her opponent at No. 2 singles 
• SMCTENNIS 



Peaking through losses 
Classifieds 
winning by scores of 6-1. 6.:.1. 
"We've been playing well against strong competition," said coach Robin Hyrcko. "Our inexperience is showing through as we're trying to shuffie posi­tions to deal with the injury of a key player on our team, Mary Woodka. Our lineup has been completely rearranged but we're dealing with the situation the best we can." 
Last night. the Belles traveled to Calvin College for another long match. After more than five hours and a bout of rain, the BelJes gave one more win to Calvin, with a final score of 3-6. Although Clavin's record of 11-1 was intimidating, the mental focus of the team was more on track than ever. 
"Althougbwe didn't win, it was the best we've played all season," said Hyrcko. ''My girl~ were really focused and more mentally tough than the flashy·Calvin·team. We really stepped it up and I think with rnore experience, we would've done better." 
As always,No.<l doubles players Vales and Gemmer displayed their mental thoughness with 6~1 and 6~4 victories~ The outstanding performa,nce ofthe No. 1 doubles team throughout the season gives them a possible No.2 seed position at theupcoming MIAATournamertL . 
Playing well against Calvin in the sin­gles position was Vales at No. 1 singles. with a score of6~2. 6-4. At No. 3singles, sophomo~~ .Becky Kremer. brougtrt :homeawill..~~~-6-?.Sophomore.Krista E~sthurnt ~~o VI(~~ bumped· up t9 tl)e No.. 4 spot due tp the.. injury of Woo4ka, 
. put up a·good fight but fell short in three sets, 2:-6. 7*5,6-2. 
Valeshas high hopes that the team will getoutoftheir slump. She said she is sure that with better practices and more focus, the team has a prettygood shot for the r~st ofthe season and i~lhe upcoming MlAAtournament 
L...-.-_N_o_T_Ic_E_s_ __,l 
Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/t. Europe $290 o/w. Other worldwide destinations cheap. ONLY TER­RORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Air-Tech (212)219-7000. (800)575-TECH. www.airtech.com 
Apply Now!!! 
IRISH GARDENS 
Flower Shop Basement of LaFortune Apps Due Fri April 29 
??s-Call 1-4004 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Man's silver bracelet somewhere on campus. Great sentimental value. Please call Danny at 273-0147. Reward offered. THANX 
WANTED 

CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR JOBS -Excellent benefits. World Travel. Ask us how! 517-324-3090 ext. C55841 
Sales/Marketing Internships University Directories is hiring stu· dents to sell yellow page advertis· ing for the official campus tele­phone directory this summer. Paid internship. Training program. Excellent sales/marketing & man­agement experience. Call 
1-800-7 43-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.universitydirectories.com 
Rec Sports is hiring student supervisors for next academic year. Freshmen and sophomores preferred. Must qualify for work/ study. Sports interest and/or background helpful. Apply by April 23, Rec Sports office. 
MODELS NEEDED! Female and Male Models for an upcoming A VEDA production. Model calls are being held now. Have fun and get a great new look. Please call 1-800­356-5533 ext1209 for information. 
IL..-_F_o_R_RE_N_T_ __, 
Now Renting Campus View 1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks from campus 272-1441 
SUMMER SUBLET Spacious furnished 1 bdrm (big enough for 2). $480/mo + utilities. Call 243-2621 
Nice 5 bdrm. 2 bath full basement. Walking distance to campus. 350/rm. utilities & appl., W/D incl. Taking deposits for 
98-99 sci. yr. 277-5483. 
Summer and or Fall 3 bdr home. 2 blks from campus 273-1566 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
Furn. room. air. kitchen. private entrance, phone, laundry facilities. utilities included. $200/mo. 
272-0615. 
1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR. WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE. 234-3831/ 273-0482 
College Park Apartment for SUBLET for 2 month minimum. Maximum of 4 people to rent. $175 per person. Willing to negotiate. CALL 273-9235 
Interested in subletting a 2 Bdrm College Park Apartment for the Summer? Call 4-3857 Best Offer. 
4BR house close to NO. grad students only unfurnished. 233-1727 1.300 
' 
ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA­TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM­PUS, CONT. BRKFST INCL. CALL 277-8340 We need two people or one female roommate to sublet our nice house: near campus, furnished. Call Peter 251-0815. 

Tri-level 3 bedroom house, 1.5 miles from campus across from park, with 1.5 bath, family room with fire place. 2 car garage & fenced in backyard. Has ale, stove, trig., dlw, g/d, & w/d. 960 per mo. 289-5057 or 232-4527 
Bed & Breakfast for NO graduation & Football. 3 miles from ND. 287­4545 
Rooms in private house. 1 mile from NO. Summer rental. Greg 634-0766 
HOUSELEASE4BR2BAPT FURN W/D/ 0/W WALK-NO AVAIL 6/1 GRAD PREF (773)288-8822 
5 bedroom house for rent for 98-99, 1 05 Marquet1e 232-6964 
FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still plastic. $225 219-862-2082 
84 Nissan Sentra 4dr.Greg 288-3408 
1575 OAKHILL 2 BDRM 2 BATH CONDO VAULTED GREAT ROOM W/ FRPL FOR SALE. TO SEE CALL JONI/REMAX 235-.3145. OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 4/26 1-3 PM 
PERSONAL. 
Hey· dirj you know... We're open early, late, and week­ends for your convenience! -THE COPY SHOP -
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
LQQKING FOR A JOB FOR THE '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR? THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is now accepting applications for next fall. Student positions are limited so apply early. 
• TRACK AND fiElD 


Irish prepare for NCAAs 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
At this point in the track and field sea­son, Notre Dame is seeking top-notch p!)rformances which will indicate a readiness for the Big East Championships and qualify individuals for the NCAA Championships. 
The Fighting Irish are hoping for good weather conditions this weekend to help them in their quest for personal records. The team is divided up into those competing at Michigan State tomorrow and those taking part in a series of meets in California today through Sunday. The featured meet in California is the weekend long Mt. Sac Invitational, which draws athletes from across the nation. Some members of the Irish will also compete in a meet at Pomona College today and/or one at Long Beach State University tomorrow. 
Distance coach Tim Connelly said that probably all of the athletes competing in California will compete in more than one meet, with the exception of 5,000 meter runner Jason Hexing. Other run­ners representing Notre Dame include middle distance runners Mike Conway, Phil Mishka and Tim Kober, pole vaulter Mike Brown, sprinters/hurdlers Nadia Schmiedt, Berit Junker and Errol Williams, high jumper Jennifer Engelhardt, and sprinters Danny Payton and Marshaun West. 
"Basically, we want to run faster and sharper and be ready to run well at the Big East meet in a couple weeks," said Connelly. 
The meet at Michigan State is an open invitational, with most members of the Notre Dame track and field team who are not going to California competing at it instead. This is where many of the distance athletes will complete, includ­ing sophomore all-American JoAnna 

With the Big East Championships just around the corner for the Irish, this is one of their opportunites to tune-up. 
Deeter in her first outdoor race of the season. 
"We've got a couple kids in the 1,500 that we'd like to see race a little faster," said Connelly. 
This weekend is one of the final chances for improvement before the Big East meet, with only next week's meets at the Drake Relays and Purdue Helays remaining before the conference cham­pionships. 

The Observer acce~ts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves 'the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ADOPTION Mugs, daisies and  16m not silly  And all of the sudden. I have hous­ 
babbling brooks in summer.  ing. stilts. and furniture! Just like  
Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire- uh oh, we better switch to normal  that!  
place in winter. Love and joy for  view.  
your baby all year long. Happy, car- I'm so sick of being fired around  
ing professional couple would love  Welcome to my nightmare. 1011 be  here. In fact. I quit  
to provide a newborn with love, joy  your host.  
and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1·  HMac -We need a girls night out  
800-484-7011 Pin #4523  so mark. how you like graphics?  soon. I'm craving breadsticks.  

have an apartment!!!!!!! ADOPTION IS LOVE to the No. 1 sunny delight thief on Happily married NO Alumni couple, its on beacon street this campus ... with adopted 3 year old daughter, HIGH FIVE! wants to shower a new baby with kristi, i can't wait to share a bed i will never ever ever forget that love. Artistic full-time mom. athletic with you! fateful day when you not onyl stole lawyer dad, and a sister to play love, mac and opened my sunnyd, but you with. Friends on the swingset, trips took the first sip. to the zoo, grandma, play groups, lullabies, too. This is a home where Need an apartment this summer? forgiveness is another issue. wishes come true. We'd like to get How about College Park? Call to know you. Call Shawn & Meg Rosanna at x4297 or Erin. Maureen good times. noodle pasta 800-767-4257. or Nikki at x3857. Looking for best Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. offer!! buena suerte a todas mis amigas 
...............* **" **1> ************* 
BOBAPALOOZA '98 ••••••••••• ** ••••••* * *********** 
Tonight marks the final appearance of STOMPER BOB at the IRISH CONNECTION. Come out and cheer NOs hardest-working band for the past 3 years. In their first full length show in over two months, STOMPER BOB wants to thank all of its fans for their support over the years and for this year especially, and thus have prepared a fabulous lineup. STOMPER BOB will play all night downstairs, while 
U. of Illinois' best band and Hammerhead recording artists KAI MERA will perform their unique rock/pop blend in the pimp lounge. OJ FOnz and WALKmama will keep you dancing all night long. Doors at 8, show at 10:30. 
BOBAPALOOZA '98 ••••••••• *•••***********•••••••• 
Los Angeles, I was in the office that night but not long enough to see you. Alas! You know, it's just not the same without you here with me, I could bear it no longer. Forsooth! And soon I will no longer be here regularly and we must part. 0, Woeful me! It will be hard to leave you. Love, San Antonio 
Silly unsavory person 
manana. Sturdiest lofts on campus for sale. Designed and built by architect. Mark DeBoy has problems Complete with hardware and explic­it directions for assembly. Call You bet I do but Brian has girl hair. Sarah at x4297. He's a big wuss. 
Hi Jason. I hope you did well on  A REAL BIG wuss.  
your test this morning. If you  
passed, you can come over today.  With girl hair.  
If you got a B, I'll buy you dinner. If  
you got an A ...  Kessler. Brian Kessler.  

... The sky's the limit. baby. He's the wuss. 
If you got an A, I'll buy you break-Gigi and Lulu are the greatest. 
fast. ;) 
Hac, 

I can't wait to hold your hair But no icicles, thank you. I like my back this weekend while you enjoy meals nice and hot. your first experience with a frosty 
beverage. 

Love, RoRo: Have fun in Bayonne. If KAK, MAC, and SAD Joanne calls. I'll tell her, uh, I'll tell her you're up to your elbows in I've got a new hat. 
applesauce and dirty laundry. It's good to wear in the rain. 
The star-crossed Napalm .... Boy do I hope it rains. 
Finn N I didn't mean to hurt your feelings It's blue and floppy. The hat, not the by saying you're shorter than my rain. brothers. You're only shorter than one of them. Smurfette for Mr. Bookstore 
NLaura ;) 
Her Barbies always did it on the first Jeff N date. Now she's with me, there's Don't forget to call! never any need for them to demon-
NLaura strate. 
~.\ 
·-= wz
--~-----------~·--------~----~~-A&--~P----~---~--~~~---~~---------­
Friday, April 17, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-----------~ ~--~-----·----·----~~--~-----····---------------­
-··----------­

----~-~~~-~~-~---·-~---~ 
• BASEBALL 
Streaking Irish have Pitt next on the hit list 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
In its last 19 games, the Notre Damn baseball team has collect­ed 34 home runs. 
Just 37 games into the season. the team has 52 four-baggers, only 14 shy of last season's total in 60 games. 
With power numbers like that, the Irish arc hoping to flex their muscles in a larger venue this weekend: Thren Hivers Stadium, home of Major League Baseball's Pittsburgh Pirates. 
"[Playing at Three Rivers] is going to be a big thrill fur us." sai d soph o m o r e J e f'f FeI k e r . "We've bnen looking forward to it; it's one of the highlights on our schedule. Plus, it's better than playing at thetr home field." 
Notre Dame (8-0 Big East) travels east for a three-game series with Pittsburgh (2-12 Big East), riding a seven-game win streak. 
"We just try to go out there and play. and not talk about the streak," said felker. "There's an unwritten rule in baseball that you don't talk about things like ]streaks]. But it's in the back (~f everyone's mind." 
Wednesday night the Irish defeated interstate rival Purdue 7-1. as junior Allen Greene, and sophomores Jeff felker and Brant Ust went yard. 
Saint Mary's College presents the Second Annual Shaheen Presidential Lecture 

Bettina Gregory 
<4  ABC News Correspondent  
<4  Reporter for World News Tonight, Good Morning America, and Nightline  
<4  Chief anchor for ABC Radio's live coverage of special events  
<4  Won the Ace Cable Award for her biography  

of Hillary Rodham Clinton 


SliCCI!.t:S 


Monday, April20, 1998 at 7:30p.m. 
JM/1.~£~

Moreau Center • O'Laughlin Auditorium~ NoTRE DAME, IN Admission is FREE. For further information, call 219/284-4626. 
Righthanded starter 
Alex Shilliday (7 -2) 
tossed two shutout 
innings, allowing three 
hits and one walk to 
earn the win in the 
planned rotation. 
Brad Lidge. Mike Naumann. Tum O'Hagan and Aaron lleilman saw action out of the bullpen, while the Irish staff lowered its team EHA to 4.42, giving up two earned runs in the last 30 innings. 
Heilman increased his shutout streak to· 21 innings in his last 14 appearances with a scoreless ninth against the Boilers. 
The Irish pitching staff faces a Panthers lineup paced by utility player Charles Stafford, batting .314 on the year to lead the team. JuniiJr shortstop Lou Melucci anchors the squad, having started every game for Pittsburgh and hitting .308 with a team-leading three home runs. The ·speedy Melucci is also eight-for-1 0 in stolen bases. 
As a team. the Panthers are hitting .251 with a mere 11 homers in 28 games. 
"You can't overlook any team in the Big East," said Felker. "Last year we split with them. so this time we're hoping for a little bit of revenge. 
"We haven't even peaked yet. We've been playing well, but when everything falls into place, we'll be tough to beat when the tournament comes," he said 
COLL 

SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
TEACHING SCIENCE, MATHEMATICS AND ENGINEERING IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 
Course Number: GRED 601 Monday-Thursday June 8, 9, 10 & 11, 1998 9:00 AM~Noon 
One CreditHour · Call Number 5051· 

Instructors: *Jay Brockman, Assistant Professor Computer Science & Engineering 
* Barbara E. Walvoord, Director, The Kaneb Center 
TO REGISTER: CONTINUING GRADUATE STUDENTS SHOULD USE THEIR DART PIN. FOR SUMMER 1998 


BIG EAST Pet. Overall Pet. Streak 
. 8-0-0  1.000  27-10-0  .730  Won 7  
8-1-0  .889  16-11-0  .593  Won 4  
7-3-0  .700  . 16-9-1  .635  Won 3  
6-3-0  .667  26-8-1  .757  Won 5  
8-4-1  .654  23-12-1  .653  Won1  
.636  17·13..0  ~567  lost 1  
, · :soo· .· 14~12·0  .538  lost 1  

.'i~ 4~t-!~~lf 
NOTRE DAME Rutgers St. John1S West Virginia Providence Seton Hall·. Conneticut Villanova 

Tuesday & Wednesday August18 &19, 1998 9:00:AM~4:0p PM · Orie Credit Hour Call Number 5050 

Instructors: *Michelle Murphy, Assistant Professional Specialist, Biological Sciences 
* Barbara E. Walvoord, Director_, The Kaneb Center 
TO REGISTER: CONTINUING .GRADUATE STUDENTS SHOULD USE THEIR DART PIN FOR SUMMER 1998, UNTIL JUNE 26_, 1998 


··.: 
TEACHING IN A LABORATORY IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
Course Number: GRED 501 


--~----------------~-------·-~------------~.-------------~·----•~=~=--=--~-~~e•»»-~t•~---.-w=--$=---·----~-~•••-=o~~~~·-=-E~~~-.~~-.-·-~--~ARPsuP"~~ 
Friday, April 17, 1998

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• GOlF 
Tourney chance to up Irish 
By GENE BRTALIK competition with matching score. Sports Writer rounds of 292 and a 27-stroke At Ohio State this weekend 
victory. At the Johnny Owens Notre Dame will play one of the This weekend five members of Invitational the team once again strongest fields they have faced played better than what was all season. In addition to Notre
the Notre Dame golf team travel to Columbus, Ohio to play in expected and came away with a Dame and host OS U, the 16­what could be the most impor­second place finish. Then last team field will include nine Big 
tant tournament in their careers. weekend at Marshall after the 10 teams-Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, 
Currently sitting as the eight team struggled on day one. they Michigan, Michigan State, ranked team in the district, the came back and fired a 1 under Minnesota, Northwestern, Irish look to move up in the 283. Purdue and Wisconsin -plus rankings to further their chance The reason behind the team's five Mid-American Conference of obtaining an invitation to the success comes from the fact that teams: Ball State, Kent, 
NCAA Hcgional at the Oak Hills everyone has contributed to the Marshall, Miami (Ohio) and Country Club in San Antonio. victories. Whether it be senior Toledo. Texas. Bryan Weeks winning the Butler Notre Dame will have Willie
I' "It's do or die time for us this Invitational. Todd Vernon win­Kent back at full strength this weekend," captain Bryan Weeks ning the Big East Championship week, as he battled tonsillitis last said. "We have to prove our­last fall, Jeff Connell's runner-up week leading to the Marshall selves against a strong field in finish last weekend with a school tournament, but will be without order to get that coveted NCAA record 4 under 209 or junior the services of Hardin who will invite." transfer Willie Kent's two top be taking the MCATS and is 
The district committee will five finishes the everyone on the replaced by senior Brad Stanis. select either six teams and· one team as helped one way or the "Brad has a lot of experience, individual or five teams and six other. When the members nf the and has played here before," 
individuals to represent the team are struggling someone stated Weeks, "I have confidence \1idwest at the NCAA Centrar else is there to pick up the pace in him and I know he is geared Regional. Selection is based on and contribute to overall team up about playing." several criteria in addition to district ranking, including head­to-head results, stroke difTenm­tial, won-loss record, strength of schedule, common opponents, stroke average, tournament place finishes, and spring results as eompared to fall. This year Notre Dame has faced 39 of their 42 district opponents and owns a head to head advantage over 29 of them. 

Notre Dame has been one of the hottest teams in the district this season. A fifth place (3rd in the district) finish at the Golden Ocala Intercollegiate Invitational 
,-ignited the fire early in March. 
-":.­
Two weeks later, the Irish trav­
Cinema at the Snite eled to Butler as the defending 
Fri. & Sat. 7:15 and 9:45pm 
champions of the Butler Spring Presented by ND Communications and Theatre Invitational and blew away the 



Friday, A.pril17, 1998 
3:00 p ..u. 136 DeBartolo 
66ll'\ §EA]~·C~I ·OF H·01\IE G:RCY\Vl'\' AlJ~["{):'\'OYfYg AFJ([C.Al"J ~fi~.t\K§][~['1 10N ~L'O DE)l()CR.t\C~Y9 [~§IlDE:R A-CCC}Lv:'\~['9? 
..

Honor Guest Spea~ers: 
H.E. Fassassi J\. Yac::ouLou, Former ~linisterofCommerce, Ambassador of Benin to the UN, NY 
H.E. Molaa.n011ed J\ly Titian., Ambassador ofof the Republic ofGuinea, Washington, DC 
H.E. Dieudonne A.ntoine Ganga, Ambassador of the Republic of Congo, Washington, DC 
Ad.uission is free. General puLiic: ~el«:oiDe. 
Saturday, April 18, 1998 
7:00 p ..u. Stepan Center 
Keynote Spea~er: Dr. Ornolayo Olaniyan. 
Professor, International Economic Relations, Senior Economic Advisor, Organization ofAfrican Unity 
Producer: THE PAN-AFRICAN CULTURAL CENTER & THE SALON OF :FRIENDSHIP the Support of: The Kellogg Institute ror International Studies, COBA, NDCIHD, CSl1, Student Activities, Student Government, Office of International Student Affairs, ND Hlatk Alumni AASA, NAACP, HCAF, SUB, Anthony Travel, Inc . 
.. 
Friday, April I?, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 
Wackiness gives way to intensity in round of 256 
By BRIAN KESSLER and-45 minute maranthon to Assistant Sports Editor Caucasian Sensation, 21-18. 
"It was a little chilly playing La Ia lalalala Ia lala Ia Ia, Ia out there for so long without Ia Ia lalala Ia Ia !ala Ia. our shirts on, but we had a lot 
That's right, even the smurfs of fun and the other guys were fought the cold and wind yes­really good sports," said Papa terday to make an appearance Smurf Davis Leung. at Bookstore Basketball. Smurfette (Matt Hershey) was 
Team Smurf, coated in blue a force taking it to the whole, paint, took the court with their but Gargamel (Phil Erskine), theme song playing in the back­Handy (Tim Reinbold), and ground. but they lost the hour-Hefty (Joe Cavato) smurf 
BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL XXVII 
low me the Hey Guys, B~ Gulps huh, Alright f, ~ Mexican Yams Tres del Team 297 r+'Good Unda Margret lhmtlng del Faber Does Not Uke You 
r.tke Tyson, Mom Albert, and ThPee Other Guys who Bite del Howls the Dish Squash ft def Team 563 Buddah del Fortv·OUnce Pretrial Diversion del The Tourneyls Named Alter Us, So we Might As Well Play Sponge Northy Guys del We Learned Everything we Know from Neil Gary and the Reds del GLazy Guys \lo waited 1til the Last Day to Sign Up 2Hard 2Handle del Scandal, Inc. Marv Alber~ Mike Tyson~ and 3Other Guys Who Will Eat Ya Alive lief ~Benes 
The Aero-Haus del Team 47 .·*!i ,;."'' · Punching Clown del WP03: Patsy PoohWatep · we Couldn't be any worse even nwe had Jelmy Mac def Mrs.t•s House ~pain Team 295 del Malibu Barbie &The sunset GirlS.·}( ,,, $15 Down the Drain del 5Girls Wllo know how to Put hin Tribu de JeHs del The Rockpiles ·;·}·¥ 


Chilly-Whippers del Smokey I The BanditS Caucasian SensatiORS del Team Smurf Boys or Winter del Satan and His Millions 

couldn't lead a comeback after 
facing an 11-10 defecit at the 
half. 
In other action. lop-sided games continued to dominate at Bookstore yesterday, as the first round finally drew to a close. 
"So far I think the tourna­ment is going really well," said head commissioner Dan Delaney. "All of the seeded teams have advanced and we're looking forward to the weekend when we'll start to see some better matchups." 
Show Me the Money, the 20th seed in the tournament, will advance to play over the week­end, as they rolled to a 21-5 victory over Hey Guys, Big Gulps huh, Alright. No. 3 seed, Off Shore Drilling. featuring Tim Ridder and Mike Hosenthal, advanced, as did Antwon Jones' No. 13 Next, who defeated M.F. Souljas 21­2. 
Another blowout saw Mike Tyson, Marv Albert, and Three Othf~r Guys Who Bite take it to How's the Dish. 
"We were happy with our play and surprised to have hit so many outside shots [because of the wind I." said Tim Hemler, whose team won its second straight game by a score of 21­
3. "We have a pretty good team and it's a joint effort, but basi­cally we're not expecting too much. We're just out to have a good time." 
In two of the closer games of the afternoon, Chris McGough scored eight points for Mexican Yams Tres who defeated Team 
297. 21-15, and Matt Tomko added eight, as Good Linda Margaret Hunting topped 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Ben Troy of Mike Tyson, Marv Albert and 3 Other Guys Who Bite 
takes it to the hoop for one of the team's 21 points on the day. 
Faber Does Not Like You, 21-will start to pick up as the 
16. round of 256 gets underway The competition and intensity today. 
, 

~ • MEN's TENNIS 

Wins at Michigan quickly end a short Irish slump 
----·~-~ 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 17, 1998 

By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Ediror 

There was no need to panic after all. 
After suffering through a 1-3 stretch, their worst this season, the No. 14 men's tennis team breathed a sigh of relief yester­day after defeating Michigan on the road, 5-2. 
"The matches have been tough," said senior Eric Enloe. "This win definitely helped. We've lost dose ones lately, so it was nice to beat a good team." 
The Wolverines' statistics, 6-0 in their conference and tied for first in the Big Ten, posed a threat, but the players were unable to add up the higher numbers against the Irish. 
"It was touch and go for a while, but when it came to crunch time, our guys were able to pull it through," coach Bob Bayliss said. 
With a slight disadvantage (playing indoors because of fore­casted rain), the Irish began the match like they were under water. · 
At first, it seemed like Notre Dame (15-6) was bound to repeat their recent match's mis­take of losing doubles. In their last three matches. when Irish pairs collapsed, the singles fol­lowed suit. 
Against Michigan, the No. 1 and 2 combinations lost close matches, 9-7 and 9-8. Only Ryan Sachire and Matt Horsley at No. 3 pulled through for a 9-7 win. but Michigan still took the 1-0 lead after pairs. 
"Losing doubles lately has been a real concern," Bayliss said. "Michigan has good doubles, but we were sloppy and had some fundamental breakdowns." 
But even though the Wolverines snapped their jaws on the duos, the Irish were able to take the bite out of their sin­gles opponents, dropping only one match. 
"We went out and weren't too aggressive in doubles," said Sachire. "But in singles we really turned it around. To take five out of six singles was great. I think we played with a lot of heart and character." 
Sachire, the No. 20 player in the nation, pounded his oppo­nent to reel in his fifth straight win, with a two-set victory over 

* The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One & Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98..'99 School Year Summer Rentals June..August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
•'
"· 
11 
I ! ( '· ~The Shops at River Crossing.
'U8675 River Crossing Blvd. a 
Indianapolis, IN 46240 
~w Yorf( crimes 13estse{{er %e5'1Pteboo~ 
... 
' I 
i 
ll ~ ~ :I
,· 

BORDERs· 
BOOKS· MUSIC ·CAFE 

. l, 
~ 

317.574.1775 
·,\, Meet 
!l\[jcfio{as Spark§, 
9{ptre tDame yrad and autlior oftfie 
David Pardzik. 
"Sachire was his normal pro­ductive self," Bayliss said. "He was up 3-0 in the first set before Pardzik even had a chance to blink." 
Sachire put up eye-popping numbers, steamrolling Pardzik, 6-2, 6-2. The sophomore contin­ued to keep his name in the lime­light with the win, bringing his individual record to 18-3. 
Although Jakub Pietrowski and Brian Patterson were shot down together in doubles, on their own they were the ones firing. Pietrowski, a senior, rallied to rip bullet holes through Michigan's No. 2 talent, Matt Wright. After losing his first set 5-7, Pietrowski battled back in the last sets, 6-4. 6-4. 
Junior Patterson did not play his best game but still managed to bring home his fifth straight win in singles. 
"Patterson deserves a tremen­dous amount of credit," Bayliss said. "lie was down early and often in the first set, but he was able to fight back and win with his B-game." 
Although Michigan's Arvid Swan has passed all but two 


D-line 
continued from page 24 
just trying to get them better." 
Also competing at the end position are Jason Ching, B .J. Scott, Kurt Vollers and Andy Wisne, while the nose guard position is a battle between Lance Legree and Antwon Jones. 
"At nose guard Lance Legree started some last year and played a lot and Antwon Jones has been around a long time," head coach Bob Davie said. "So we've got two guys there with potential, we've just got to devel­op them." 
opponents' tests this season he flunked against Patterson's quizzing, 7-6, 6-3. 
After a 1-4 drought, victory poured on cap­tain Danny Rothschild at No. 4 after his 6-4, 6-4 win. Despite play­ing with a bruised foot, Hothschild was able to boot Will Farah out of the match by going to the net and volleying with authority. 
With Notre Dame holding the match 3-2, Enloe executed the game clincher with his 6-3, 1-6, 6-3 defeat of John Long. 
Enloe battled back from his second set lapse by subtracting Long's fore­hand out of the equation with some gutsy shots. 
"He was serving better [in the second set]," Enloe said. "So I kicked into a higher level." 
By wrapping up another victo­ry, the Irish have their eyes set on the site of Indianapolis. Their last regular season match \Viii take place on Sunday before the 


Legree weighs in as the biggest of the Irish up front, up to 290, but the rest of the line­men also benefited from the rig­orous off-season weight pro­gram. 
"Wh~t has happened with the off-season weight program is guys have gotten a lot stronger and a lot bigger," Strong said. "They got weight which we needed and any time you get bigger and stronger it's only going to help you with things you need to do. Being strongPr allows us to bo more aggressive which is one of our goals." 
One of those players who put in overtime in the weight room was Grant Irons, who now weighs in at 247 after being around 220 last yr~ar. Irons also Big East championship matches. 
With the confidence-booster at Ann Arbor, the Irish have a clear plan in mind for the rest of the season. 
"Straight down the lineup, we looked in the mirror and decided it was time to play," Enloe said. "It's been tough; we've had our backs up against a wall, but everybody comes out ready to play." 
made the. switeh from inside linebacker to the df~ff~nsive front. 
"lie's adjusting pn~tty good just because of his size and he's a good athlete," Strong said. "lie's just a big old body, he gained a bunch of weight and he can do what \Ve ask him to do." 
Another player who took advantage of the ofT season was junior Jason Ching. 
"Now it's better because I've gained some weight. I'm about 270 now," Ching said. "Last year at this time I was about 240 and was just getting pushed around a lot so." 
The focus of the Irish this spring remains the same as they prepare for Michigan on September 5. 

Today at Stoneh~n Campus bands, poetry,-~,.. 
More FREE Film. 
.. ·······.·.·· .. ! ·.··i . . · ·•·•••·• Ii... 
7:30 In and Ou 
<} 

10:00 Love, Valour and Coin 
Friday, April 17, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 


Softball 
continued from page 24 
there's so many things that have happened within the league, as well as across the nation. Anything can happen at any given day. The game has really opened up from what it used to be." 
At the start of the afternoon's action, it looked as if the Bulldogs were ready to put that theory to the test. It only took seven pitches for the visi­tors to score; they took advan­tage of a throwing error to take a quick 1-0 lead. The team still threatened with a runner in scoring position, but pitcher Jennifer Sharron was able to strike out a batter and end the bleeding. 
The Irish came back in the bottom of the inning, led by back-to-back doubles by senior Jenn Giampaolo and junior Amy Laboe. After Laboe advanced to third on a passed ball, sophomore Sarah Mathison singled to the infield to drive the second run home. The Bulldogs tied the· game in the second, but the Irish scored the next three runs in the third to rally back and clinch the win. Sophomore Sarah Mathison singled to left field to score Giampaolo, who had doubled again to start the inning. A fielding error then turned up another run in the form of Laboe. Finally, fresh­man Lizzy Lemire sh~ppcd up to hit a double and drive in senior Korrie Allen. The Bulldogs tried to rally, scoring one run with one out in the seventh to make it a two-run deficit. Sharron caused the next two batters to foul out, holding on for the 5-3 victory, 
however. 
The Irish were led off the plate by Giampaolo, who went 2-for-3 with two doubles and two runs scored. Mathison also went 2-for-3 from the plate with two RBis, while freshman Danielle Klayman tore up the basepaths with two stolen bases. Despite giving up two runs early, Sharron kept her composure and pitched the whole seven innings to earn 


NDvs. Butler
1 
1 

Game 1: 5·3 Game 2: 7·0 
the win. 
"One of the things we've been struggling with this year has been our offense," Miller said. "One day our bats are hot like nothing else and the next they just go completely dead. So the big key for us has been to be more consistent with our bats and that's what we've been doing now." 
Even though the tempera­tures dropped, the home team seemed to get hotter as the night went on. Led by an stel­lar combined pitching perfor­mance, the Irish took the sec­ond game to preserve the sweep. 
After a scoreless first inning for both sides, the Irish took advantage of errors caused by the freezing Bulldog hands. Lemire singled to start the inning, went to third on a passed ball and a sacrifice, and scored on an RBI single by Klayman. Dawn Cunningham then walked to set up a single by Giampaolo to score Klayman. Cunningham then scored off a wild pitch for the third and final run of the inning. The home team hit one run each in the next two innings and two in the fifth to stretch the lead to the final score of 7-0. 
Notre Dame was led by Lemire who went 3-for-4 in the nightcap with one stolen base. Giampaolo went 2-for-3 from 
the plate, with two RBis. The real story, however, was the pitching combina­tion of Kelly Nichols and Angela Bessolo. The two Irish aces allowed only one hit in seven innings of play, with a single in the third being the only mark against an otherwise flawless game. For Bessolo, normally a starter, it was her first save 
of the season. 
"It was kind of a reverse role 
for us," Miller said. "Kelly gets 
the win and Angela gets the 
save." 
With the series, the Bulldogs fall to 17-20-1 on the season. On the other end of the field, the Irish improve to 23-18 on the year, with their third straight series sweep and their sixth win in a row. 
It won't be long, however, before another opponent comes into town. On Saturday, the Irish will face off against Big East rival Connecticut, with another doubleheader against St. John's scheduled for the next day. 
"Right now. I'm just looking at UConn," Miller remarked. "As far as I'm concerned, my goal is to win the first game, and then we'll worry about the second game, and then we'll just go from there. We've just got to take it one game at a time." 


John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist
-

Diamonds 

Engagement Rings &  Wedding Bands  
18karat Yell ow Gold  or  Platinum.  
- 

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
-


John l\1L Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
A 
SPECIAL 
INVITATION 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r--------, :--$2_3__: :--$4_9__: :--$3!5--: r--------, 
I 10%off I : $60 :
I I 
I I 
1 Aveda l Cut & l l Color. Cut & : l Full Set of l
I I 1 1 : Hilites & : 
I I 1 1 I St)'Je I 1 
I I . I I N "I I
l Retail : l Style 1 1 One Process 1 1 at S 1 l Cut & Style l 
L--------~ L--------~ L--------~ L--------~ L--------~ 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
This offer good with the following stylists onl~·:Roxann. Tcrina. Janelle. Stephanie r----;•N:-;;:E:;W:-;-::C~L::-;-;IE~N~T~S;-O~N-;-;L~Yv-•---, Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. 
Ad mustbe presented to receptionist 
You·ll be pleased with the 4uality and service we provide. and we 
before. services are performed 
will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
(certain restrictions apply) 
We lwpt' to see you soo11. 
Not valid tor spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the nght to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires May 31. 1998 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N. Ironwood Drive •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel. 219-289-5080 
• JOCK STRIP 
Irish sports level .the playing field 
JOHN COPPOLELIA SportS Writer 
Bookstore Basketball is a prime example of an event that brings student-athletes and students together on a level playing field, if you will. On any given night at the Stepan Center courts, you will see members of the football team, the Finance club, the graduate school and even the engine.Dr­ing college throwing elbows and calling unnecessary fouls in the name ofadvancing in the tournament. Some teams make a joke of their game in the tournament and some take 
, it too seriously, but that's part of the legend that is Bookstore Basketball. Yes, I played in the tourna­ment this year (note the past tense). While 1believ~ that my 3-0f*2Q shooting· perf(}fnl3rDCe overshadowed a good effort by the resfof our team and ulti­mately Jed to our downfall, I would definitely do it a.ll over again. The fee}Wg that.you get when you are playing and when there is a crowd cheer.­ing for you (or aga,Wst you) is one .ttiari~ inc(}Ifi~.~r~ble to 
. four players. In the spirit of "Hoosiers,.. the team rallied back and defeated their oppo­nents despite being down one player. ·This type of resilience (and the occasional spree of violence) embody the spirit of Bookstore Basketball. 
Now I am going to change gears somewhat and discuss another activity that brings stu­dents and student-athletes together that is also approach­ing its climax -the Student Manager organization•. This. organization ha8 rcceivedcov­erage before ln The Observer. but never by anyone who has been involved in the program first-hand as I have. Having peen involved in the program, I have seen how much time and work it takes on the part of athletes, coaches and man­
. agers to prepare for a game. I have a new..found respect for how difficult itis to come home after foirr Qt five hours at a sport and sit down and do homework. Most importantly, I have maden:mny newfriends b9th on and offthe playing field. In about two weeks the pro­gram will announce.Jts. 21 sophomor~ managers, as 

'itordinaryph~k~up garn~s ~);'·· ~I:!Ci~ed mJiyote by:tqe>rnan-... merely shooting arQund..It ~gers thepts~Jves.Ther~ are . .brings you back ta; that high . . some managers who will not . school playoff game you never IJlake.the pr9~am andl\Vant­won or may~?e' never even. ;~.g.t9 r~epgn~~i3 th~ ~Rilb.o~ 

ID:Ji~~~,~~~*fu~;~r~:!:~·:i'i~ m~r:~:6~l~~~·*6~~~~~~ 
4evenbetter,but regtutdlessitis ·w~ecau~e in two .weeks·there 
aworthwhile ~xperience. . The tournamentit:Self is like 

..> a mini-NCAA tournalJ1ent. but bigger~ ifthat makes any !;ense, You've got your high·seeded teams (like. Kansas}. your teams with the really funny mascots (like the Billikens ofSt. LouisU.), and your dark-horse teams {like Rhode Island). It is these dark-horse teams that are the most fun to watch, Although the defeat of The Rockpiles yesterday took out one of my dark-horse teams. a few still remain. One of my dark~horse teams, Candice and The Firefighters, always finds a way to beat the other team -one way or the other. Take for example a game they were involved in earlier in the week. After a brawl ensued and a player from the opposing team was thrown about ten feet, one of the players from Candice and The Firefighters was ejected. Down two points, 17...15, they were relegated to playing with 
. Will be some managers who 
will go unreeognized;.Audra · ;,t;\~ey. Brian Belcten, Chris . . Biasotti, John Borrego, Gordon ... Butler, Jaci Carfagno, Sara Clark, Heather Cole, Jay 
. Collins. Dan Cooley. Ryan Davis, Jon French, Bob Germaine, Kara Hoadley, Sam Johnson, Diana Julian. Laura Koserowski, Nicole Longar, Molly McHugh, Spencer McKee, Nate Medland. Kara Miller, Sean O'Donnell, Shelley Raley, Jaime Samar, Cathy Scroope, Maggie Sinclair. Nina Stephan, Brendan Walsh, Kathryn Whittington, Aaron Yoder and Jim Zaleta. 
Bookstore Basketball and the Student Manager organization are two examples of how spa­cial the relationship between student-athletes and students are here at Notre Dame. It is this special relationship that is such an integral part of the academic and athletic excel­lence that we are so proud of here at Notre Dame. 


.., 

_________....____ ,_.,,.... _....__ 
page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 17, 1998 
I, 
r I
I ~ 
NO_....
DAME _., 
SP 
A 

I 
I ! 
( 
FRIDAY APRIL 1 7, 1998 
COBA 

9:00 RM  5:30 PM  
•  
sponsored by the  



K 

UNDER6RRDURTE MRRKETI N6 CLUB 
R+S 
E 
T 
9:00-10:15 

GETTING STARTED IN SPORTS MARKETING Theresa Kelly, ND '90, Assistant Sports Information Director at Lehigh, Georgia Scott Paddock, Account Supervisor, Sports Partners, Chicago Bob Crable, ND '82, all-time leading tackler for NO, 1st round draft for NY Jets, Founder Crable Sportswear 
10:30-11 :45 MARKETING A SPORTS TEAM, LEAGUE OR PERSONALITY Gary Jacobus, Senior Vice President, Corporate Sports Consulting, International Management Group (IMG) Steve Schanwald, Executive Vice President Marketing and Broadcasting of the Chicago Bulls 
12:00-1:15 Lunch and Keynote Address Doug Logan, Commissioner, Major League Soccer Reservations must be made by April 14 at 631-9330 
1:30-2:45 WOMEN IN SPORTS Judy Shoemaker, former Vice President, N BA Properties Sue Levin, Director of Women's Sports Marketing, Nike (will present "play like a girl" campaign) 
3:00-4:15 CORPORATE SPORTS MARKETING Bill Bund, ABC Sports Greg Via, Vice President, Gatorade 
4:30-5:30 Roundtable discussions with speakers in the Atrium 
G 
~
,....... 
... 
p IU~ 
..
... 

Friday, April 17, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Lax 
continued from page 24 
giving up. 
"This gives us a new type of challenge," said senior captain Alex Cade. "Everyone wants to go out on top, especially us seniors. Our priority is and always was winning. and noth­ing else." 
Not having to fight for a play­off berth, the team, in an attempt to conquer this nnw (:hallenge, has bf~en trying new things and utilizing fresh play­ers. 

&GLOBAL 
SECURITY 

Religious Dimensions of Violence, Peace and Security 
An Jnternational Symposium 
April16-18, 1998 
Center for Continuino Education University of Notre Dame 
The Jm B. Kroc Institute for lnternatioul Peace Studies 
Tbe Office of the Proust The Cushn Centtr for the St1dy of ~merican Catholicism 

The focus has long been on getting the offense to control t h e b a II and sp, ttI(l i n to an attack that naturally finds the back of the net. The lack of control has kept the Irish from working plays that end up in the net. This new situation allows them to experiment more. 
"\Ve're switching our of'ffmse up and shuffling people around. We're finding roles for some of our younger player too," junior Chris Dusseau said. 
Underclassmen have been key to the team for a while, as the Irish started to try working different elements to fill the 
In Wednesday's Observer two presentations were reversed. The correct times and dates are: 
Friday, April 17 

8:15 p.m.  Religious Activism in South Africa: Apartheid and its Aftermath  
Chair:  Garth Meintjes University of Notre Dame  

Presentation: Tristan Borer Connecticut College 
Presentation: Peter Walshe University of Notre Dame 
Presentation: Rev. Buti Tlhagali South African Catholic Bishops Conference 
Saturday, April 18 

9 a.m. Religion as a Transnational Social Actor 
Chair: Fred Oallmayr University of Notre Dame 

Presentation: Susanne Hoe~er Rudolph University of Ghicago 
Response: Cynthia Sampson Eastern Mennonite University 
gaps created by injuries. 
The results on the practice 
fields have been successful. 
"Offensively," said Dusseau, 
"we've had some of our best 
practices." 
Controlling the ball more on offense will also m can a defense that ·is not always on the defensive. 
"Changing the offense around will help keep the pressure off the defense and the ball in their zone, not ours," Cade said. 
Normally under these condi­tions, a team would fear facing a 1Otl1-ranked squad. But this Fighting Irish team is taking this as their new challenge. 
"Our focus now is playing for pride, and UMass is first up," Dusseau said. 
Despite the recent outcomes, the Irish are not throwing in the towel. 
"At first, [the loss to Georgetown] really got us down," said Cade. "But it soon kicks in that you still have three games left to give 100 percent. Us seniors have been doing it all four years, and now's not 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

the time to stop." 
Key for the Irish to regain momentum is controlling the ball at midfield. 
Own Your Own Home For As Little As... 
$49 9 ~zrrn·"·· 5 25 ~erest 
• Rate$4 750Down 
' Payment 
In 30 days, you can own the waterfront condominium or townhome vou've dreamed of, located (n a park like setting just minutes from downtown South Bend and shopping 
For information about this Iiinited offer, call 
232-2002 
'Mollthflll'fiiiCI/'k ''"d int~rcst bi!St'd 011" 2 bedroom ri1•a W11domi11ium primf at 594,990 with" 2-1-0 buvdolt>ll 30 vr. fixt•d rate Rlltl's ar~ subJect to Program IS m on select 111l't'lllory · l~eunes · . . . .. .. ·· . .. ·. ··... 
Students and Faculty Welcome Free of Charge 

Q., Where can I get an application? 8.., Outside the SUB office. 
Q., Where do I turn in the application? 8.., (you guessed it) outside the SUB office. For 1nore i11fo; f;all Jitn Bile~ at 4-1744 


I t 

1: 
I 

(! ( 
I 
I 
l 
1 

A 
s you no doubt are aware, a high-profile merger that will have substantial impact on the Big Six world and the business community is moving 
·towards final approval. When Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand combine their worldwide practices, they will create the pre-eminent global professional services organization and offer significant benefit to members of both teams as well as to clients. 
The next step? To Celebrate the impending creation of this powerful partnership with those of you on campus who have committed to -and those of you who might have an interest in -sharing our exciting future. 
The power event of the season 
Date: Wednesday, April 22, 1998 Time: 4pm-7pm Place: College Football Hall of Fame 
(111 South Saint Joseph Street) RSVP: 1-877-225-3634 (by April 20) Note: Casual Attire 


Be a part -from the start 
• 
We invite you to visit our as yet uncombined Web sites. 
http://www.us.coopers.com http://www.pw.com 
Price Waterhouse LLP and Coopers §I Lybrand LLP are equal opportunity/ affirmative action employers. 


Coopers&Lybrand Price Waterhouse 
• 

·, 




MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
57 Withdraw by degrees 59 Levi's "Christ Stopped at " 
63 Movie short about Capone in court? 
66 Sub detector &7 Small songster 68 Astronaut 
Armstrong 69 Jumbo shrimp 70--buco 71 Small boat 
DOWN 
1 Opinion of others? 2 In times past 3 Blockhead 4 "Stop already!" 5 Two-by-two craft &Emergency hauler 7 "Typee" sequel 8 Repeat without thinking 9 Ring result 10 Official class member 11 Kind of guard or end 12 Trilled 
needles 
181.R.S. employee 
19 French military caps 
27 Sin city 

.·..::::. 

gradua~• tst:~~"t f!rln Krt~•m•~· ~gprano, ~-•... "',,.,, 
· · . a voice· recital Saturd~t ·evening, . 
.m. inthellesburgh Ubrary Auditorium .• Works acb.•·.. flln~e.rpitb •.·• .llie;hard..•..·S.~r~uss ..yiyal~h ,..,. -~ ...J'····, and Q);.)rad~rs.·.Gradtiatetstt.tdent ••Shere~ Wi~se:n..bel . will.,accompany on piant>. .The re(;ital is 
e andopen to. t)le pu~lic; 
.: ' . 
The Dunn ai:,thers will play at: Danoway's Cofleebouse at Saint Mary's on Saturday. The show beginSc at9 p.m. 
•MENU 
South 
North Turkey Rice Soup Turkey Rice Soup
28 Free bakery 49 Boxer's combo 56 Author Ferber "promotion" 
Shrimp Poppers . . . Chi~ken Stew over
50 007, to sa Tunes 29 Matzoh time Goldfinger 60 It's a cookie 31 Back of a 53 W.W.I army: &1 Beastly boat Abbr. home 
Linguine with Vegetables 32 Over 21 54 Stinger 62 In a sick way 33 Half-seas over 55 --about 64 Vase 34 Fashion 
(approximately) 65 Musician Brian 36 P.G.A. 's Calvin 39 Vulnerable 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle boxer's point are available by touch-tone phone: 41 Woos 
1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 44 Warms up 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
"More fun with text than you can sha,ke a stick at." 
46 British rule in best of Sunday crosswords from the last India 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries:PayofT time gets closer today. Staying on course is easy when the end is in sight. The more you lose focus, the longer you will delay your richly deserved reward. 
Taurus:You shine with intense energy today. Everyone is-aware of your beauty and how fantastic you feel. Venus gives you a wink and a nudge in the direction of romance. Let the excitement begin. 
Gemini:Use patience and focus to your advantage when dealing with others. You draw
MIKE PETERS 
out someone's secret today. This is a time to gather and hold information rather than spend it. 
Cancer:Unique ideas are well received today. The Taurus Moon gives you enough charm to make you a credible leader. Your talents might be wasted if your schedule does not include at least some social activity. 
Leo:A sudden rebellious streak may get the better of you today. Do not sabotage 
• your career over a whim of instant gratification. Your intentions and goals might not have room for an irrational
SCOTT ADAMS 

mood. 
0 
c: Virgo:You are the master of 
l'LL WA.!T UNTIL 
finding practical solutions.
!
• 
Problems seem obvious to you
~ 
.., TOMO R.ROW 'TO 
even though they may have
,..
c: TELL HIM. HE'S 
others completely stumped.
"' 
~ .. ~ CHAIRMI\N OF THE 
Reward yourself with some­
... 
thing really unusual for dinner. 
.., " "QUALLTY FESTIVAL.'' 
! 
00 
(!""" 
,.... 
page 23 
Ubra:The presence of beauty 
and luxury makes you a little 
greedy today. The lure of the 
physical world is extremely 
strong. Get over your issues 
about sharing, or tempers may 
flare. 
Scorpio:Power and intensity make this an exhausting, but hopefully fulfilling, day. Remain flexible within a relationship. Possessions or ownership issues are your biggest obsta­cles at the moment. Sagittarius: 
You are obliged to help someone whose problem nor­mally would not concern you. Learn a basic lesson from the details of another person's mis­takes. Your own situation might not be as perfect as you think. 
Capricorn:This is a day to give your emotions full and free range. Shout out your feelings. Both work and play yield excel­lent results. Relaxation hap­pens easily in natural settings. 
Aquarius:Old magic stirs you in ways you might never have guessed. Reconnect with your past instead of separating your­self from it. Spend time around your home and look at it as a stranger would see it. 
Pisces:Your bag of tricks is filled with poetic language and hypnotic imagery. You capti­vate an audience of potential lovers with that ineffable Pisces mystery. Writers and musicians will remember this day forever. 

ACROSS 1 Portend 50ver 9 Short and maybe sweet 14 A party to 15 Where the Villa Borghese is 16 Massage 17 Movie short about a perfectly timed ape? 20 Frame 21 Sped 22 Wild party 23 Teri of "Tootsie" 25 Auto import from Europe 27 Cummerbund 30 Movie short about arrestin' writer Anita? 
35 It's unsmelted 36 Early Brit 37 Deem 
appropriate 38 City for Miss Kitty 40 Plop or plunk 
starter 42 ---mouthed 43 Brunch fare 45 Actor Calhoun 47 Set 48 Movie short 
about a tireless parent? 
so "One man's --is another man's Persian" 
51 O'Casey or Penn 52 Slightly open 54 Maladies, worries, etc. 



.. ,. • .. • ... • ... ' ... .: .J z. -.,. .... .; •• -, • :,.. ... ~ ..... -,· "' • 6 .. ,. .. l 
__
..........,. .-4-<W 
-------~-~~ 
--~-----·-----~ 
• 
SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, April 17, 1998 
• FOOTBALl • SoFTBALL 
Notre Dame defense on-line Irish up win streak 

t.L
-
I 
I i
I 
! 
I 
' l
'I 
I \: 
' \ 
:~~ i~ 
'I 
:I Spring practices give Irish chance 
'I' 
, I ' 
'\ to build on strong defensive line , I 
By JOE CAVATO

:) ' ( Associate Sports Editor 
I 
I 
As the formation of the 1998 Notre Dame foot­ball team continues this spring, one of the main 
' •1: 
concerns is the development of the defensive line. With the graduation of Melvin "The Beast" 
l 
Dansby and his 100-plus tackles, as well as nose II ~ guard Corey Bennett, the Irish coaching staff looks for new bodies to step up into those gaps. . i "Even though we lost Melvin and Corey we just 
:I i\ l'!i ~ 
I':·' 
( " 
La Ia lalalala. • •
1/\ II 
'I' 
~~ 
I' 
,, 
~~.' 
. 
I(( 
'i'• 
'd 
'I I'
I 
'I 
'I 
. . 

\ l J 
\;. 

;'.; 
The ObserveriJeH Hsu 
Team Smurf took to the court yesterday in the final day of first round play. Continued Bookstore Basketball coverage is on page 17. 

with sweep of Butler 
By BILL HART _ Assistant Sporrs Editor 
Historically, April has been a very kind month for the Notre Dame softball team. 
Last season, the team won 16 of their last n19 games of the month to capture the Big East North Division crown. So, when the Irish began their longest 
have to get those other guys ready to play," defen­sive line coach Charlie Strong said. "That's what spring is all about and getting them prepared to play." 
The lone returning starter on the defensive front, Brad Williams, broke his ankle last week in practice which gives others the opportunity to per-' form and make an impression. Senior Lamont Bryant, who played outside linebacker last season, switched to defensive end, but is sidelined this spring due to injury. 
"You just plug the next guy in and keep work­ing," Strong said. "They all need work so we're homestand of the season riding a four-game winning streak, it seemed as if a psychic wouldn't be needed to predict the out­come. Head coach Liz Miller knew that the Butler Bulldogs would be ready to put up a fight, however 
"The way this season's been, 
see SOFTBALL/ page 19 

see D-UNE I page 18 •LACROSSE 
UMass a chance to rebound 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Sports Writer 
The men's lacrosse team suf­
fered the setback of a season 
last Saturday with its 13-7 loss ·at No. 12 Georgetown. 
For many of the Irish. it was 
the setback of their collegiate 
careers; as the team, falling to 
4-5 on the season, they will 
more than likely miss making a 
17th-consecutive trip to the 
NCAA Championships. 
"Of course we're disappoint­
ed," said senior midfielder Dan 
Butler. "But we still have three 
good teams to play, and we still 
want to win." 
In the loss to the Hoyas, 
Butler fed attackman Ben 
Savage on a man-up play in the 
second quarter, stopping a 
Georgetown five-goal run. But 
the damage was already done 
in the first quarter. 
Even though Irish captain 
Jimmy Keenan was the first to 
get one past the keeper at less 
than a minute into the game, 
the Hoyas answered and 
answered often, building a 6-3 
lead by halftime. Revere La 
Noue ended the first-half scor­
ing with the Irish's third. 
Keenan added his second of 
the game in the third. Chris 
Dusseau, Dave Ulrich and 
Burke Hayes finished out the Irish's scoring for the game. 

The loss, their second in a row, has put the Irish outside of the top 20 for the first time this season. 
Thought the fight to make the postseason has been eliminated for the Irish, they are far from 
see LAX I page 21 


at Pittsburgh (DH) Men's Golf~: Saturday, 6:30 p.m. 
Q)
• at Ohio State Championships •Irish netters break slump at Michigan Saturday-Sundayvs. Connecticut (DH)
'!w 

~ 
see page 18Saturday, 12 p.m. 
1; 
Women's Golf vs. Massachusetts 
at Illinois Invitational 
•Five men golfers travel to OSU·­~ 
Saturday-SundaySunday, 1 p.m. 
• 
Championships

vs. Gannon at Indiana see page 16y Sunday, 11 a.m. ,-;~ Sunday, 2 p.m. 
~ 







