
Efil Autry Denson goes over the top for a 
l'm "Pleasanrvill~" and Steven King's "Apt Pupil" won 
Monday
touchdown this weekend. The Irish beat 
good reviews as did video pick "Psycho." 
Baylor 27-3. 
NOVEMBER 
Irish Insider 



2, 1998

Seem.~ o 10-11 
THE 




The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
A student whirls an octopus during halftime of Saturday's game. Fish and frogs also sailed through the air as the halftime tradi­tion of throwing marshmellows has grown, causing security concerns for the University. · 


I LY 

Unusual flying objects cause halftime injuries in student section 

By MICHELLE KRUPA very serious safety .hazard." there was an appare.nt lack of con­News Editor While more first-aid reports will be cern for that among these students," 
filed today, an unknown number of said Phil Johnson, assistant director 
It's a bird ... it's a plane ... it's ... an students were escorted out of the sta­of Security/Police. · octopus and its hurdling through the dium for throwing objects in the Some students think that the half­air above the senior sections of Notre stands. Two public announcements time tradition has gotten out of hand. 
Dame Stadium. The giant squid flew warned against the practice. "I think the first time it basically among marshmallows weighted with "There was an announcement started with a fish. It's starting to get pennies and golf tees, peanuts, a fish before the game and before half-time a little out of control," said Notre and a frog during half-time of that objects could not be thrown," Dame senior Kevin Kaufman, who Saturday's game causing injuries and Hurley said. "The ushers also stepped sits in section 29. "Marshmallows are security problems. up their searches at the gates, and a fine, but people need to be a little "A 10-year-old girl had a laceration number of bags of marshmallows intelligent not to put things in them to 
on her face from the frog, and anoth­were confiscated." make them fly faster or go further." er non-student had a contusion on Any student ejected from the game Saint Mary's junior Colleen Killian her Jace," said Chuck Hruley, assis­faces the possibility of losing his or said that her section 30 seat serves as 
tant director of Notre Dame her football ticket privileges. a safe vantage point at half-time. 
Security/Police. "With the squid and "It's nothing about decorum and "It's very entertaining. I feel sorry the frog, people were just jumping off everything about safety. Throwing the stands out of the way, which is a things did in fact injure people, and 
see SQUID I page 4 

SMC changes marketing plan to focus on women 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY encouraging the public and 
tion," Briggs said. promoting women's colleges such Saint Maiy's News Editor prospective students to think of But she knows that the rela­as the Women's College Coalition Saint Mary's as a women's col­tionship with Notre Dame, which (WCC). 
Imagine a world where the lege, and particularly as the has existed for over 150 years, The admissions office at the University of Notre Dame doesn't College is choosing to identify will continue to exist and the College has integrated. brochures exist. itself, "the nation's premier admissions office still talks about provided by the wee into its 
For Joyce Briggs, associate Catholic women's college," said the academic co-exchange pro­offering of materials to prospec­director of admissions at Saint Briggs, "In the past, we haven't gram with Notre Dame as well as tive students. Mary's College, it isn't a challenge emphasized the fact we are a Briggs said. "Now, we are chang­the social interactions provided Brochures include statistics for her to imagine this world women's college. It just wasn't ing ow· emphasis and trying to hit by clubs and organizations run about graduates of women's col­where Notre Dame does not sell something we broadcasted." on those benefits more strongly." jointly by the schools. leges that many prospective stu­Saint Mary's. The way the College markets Many times in the past, Saint "We do still talk about the acad­dents could find persuasive. A 
"Saint Mary's has many, many itself is taking on a new shape Mary's used its relationship with emic co-exchange program with recent study conducted by the reasons to be proud of what it is," after hiring a Boston firm, Notre Dame as a selling point, she Notre Dame," Briggs said. wee showed that although Briggs said. "I believe that even if Maguire and As'sociates, to con­said. That is changing after see­These benefits include making women's college graduates the College was isolated -on a duct market research. The results ing results of the research. prospective students aware or the account for only four percent of hill by itself -it could still offer of the research showed that being "Instead of talking about Notre environment a women's college the female college-educated pop­students what they need without a women's college is what makes Dame being across the street and provides such as the non-compet­ulation, tliese women make up 24 Notre Dame." Saint Mary's marketable through­telling prospective student<> about itive classroom nature, the feeling percent of the women in Congress 
This kind of thinking is evident out the U.S. the opportunity to have a coed of community and opportunities and 33 percent of the female of a new direction the College is "When I came on board last environment or the best of both for leadership, said Briggs. board members of 1992 Fortune taking in marketing itself. More year, the entire staff knew the worlds, we are emphasizing the Saint Mary's is also making use 1000 companies. emphasis is being placed on benefits of women's colleges," benefits of single gender educa-or its affiliation with organizations 
see SMC I page 4 

Monday, November 2, 1998
page 2 The Observer. INSIDE 





Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Chinese missilie expert arrested in Bejing 


Push-ups 
Prohibited­
From the smell of the infamous steak sand­wiches that pervades the campus on game­day to the somber atmosphere of a candle­light dinner in the South Dining Hall, attend­
ing a Notre Dame foot­ 
ball game in person  Scott Hardy  
always provides a  Graphics Designer  
unique experience that  

simply cannot be duplicated by watching at 
home. 
I was especially entreated this weekend, having attended the Notre Dame versus Baylor game. From my vantage point, I was in for a show. I refer to the curious behavior of students and ushers, as they battled for expression and order, respectively. 
I was not sitting in the student section. I was in the first row of section 108 (upper sec­tion, 35-yard-line), and, as always, those around me were engaging in push-ups to cel­ebrate each of Notre Dame's points whenever the Irish added to their total. Apparently, an usher had asked us to stop, but only a couple of us heard her, and we "forgot" to tell the others. ­
During the second half, when Notre Dame totaled its score to 27, the urge to have one of us undertake this many push-ups was too much to resist. The urge, coupled with the effective pleading of an elementary school student standing behind us "Can I please do push-ups next?" easily overturned the usher's earlier ruling, which was n·ot even heard by those who were to engage in the push-up assistance for this young man. Having begun the push-ups, the usher who had told us to stop came running from two sections down to put an end to our celebra­tion. 
We watched in amazement as the usher did this; for we could see our mostly undergradu­ate_ counterparts across the stadium finishing their 27 push-ups. Next, we watched as the leprechaun completed his push-ups, with the assistance of the cheerleaders. Someone from high above cried out "Go yell at the lep­rechaun!" Laughter ensued. 
Why, when there were hundreds of stu­dents similarly engaged across the stadium, and when we have ocupied ourselves with these post-scoring push-ups unthwarted in all home games past, did this usher feel the need to impede our fun, when nobody was in danger, and no harm was being done? I am not sure. Probably for the same unknown reason which caused many ushers to line up in a human chain across the bottom of the student section at game's end, preventing an inevitable rush of the field by a majority of the student body. 
I cannot fathom a reason for these restric­tions, and they do not seem justified, as they hinder the students' ability to express fully their deep love and support of the Notre Dame football team, along with their joy resulting from a Notre Dame victory. To be sure, these actions are not without any safety hazard. However, one must consider that every time you cross the street, you are tak­ing your life in your hands. The actions of the ushers in games past were far more reason­able, when the ushers assisted those who decided.to rush the field as they descended from the stands. When the authority acts unserisibly, as I feel the ushers did in this instaI)ce, they can expect their actions to be requited only with disobedience. Therefore, I suggestyou stop, look, and listen. Then rush the field. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Ill Too.1w's STAFF 
News Scene Bill Uniowski 
Mike Vanegas Noreen Gillespie 
Graphics Finn Pressly 
Scarr Hardy Sports 
Production Bill Hart 
Shannon Ryan Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Eddie Llull 
John Daily 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The: Observer is a member of the Associarcd Press. All rcproducrion rights arc reserved. 
STANFORD, Calif. 
On Jan. 6, Hua Di, a Chinese mis­sile expert and senior research asso­ciate at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford, was arrested in Beijing for allegedly revealing state secrets. 
Information on the arrest was not made public until this week. 
A permanent resident of the United States, Hua went to Beijing to attend memorial services for his mother, father, and brother-in-law, all of whom died during Hua's nine-year stay in the United States. 
Hua had been at Stanford working with the center since 1989. The cen­ter is a consortium of scholars and former policy makers from the United States and many foreign countries who conduct unclassified research on current global security problems. 
Emeritus Professor John Lewis of the Institute for International Studies said in a statement that Hua "went to China with full assurances from the Ministry of State Security that he would be OK. He was well aware of the possibility of charges being lev­eled against him while he was in the United States, so he went to Hong Kong in September last year and was given a thorough clearance by the Ministry of State Security." 

Hua has authored several articles on Chinese security policy regarding such topics as-China's ballistic mis­sile program. He also worked with Lewis, head of the center's Project on Peace and Cooperation in the Asian­Pacific Region, on a history of China's missile program, which was pub­lished in1992. 
Many of Hua's colleagues have written the Chinese government requesting his immediate release and arguing Hua's innocence. 
According to a statement released by Provost Condoleezza Rice, "Professor Lewis has provided evi­dence of the fact that the source materials for publications written by him and Mr. Hua all either were pro­vided by approved Chinese authori­ties or already were available through the Stanford University library." 
Scott Sagan, the co-director of the center, expressed his view that Hua's research has, in fact, increased international security and coopera­tion. 

Ill HARVARD UN!VERST!Y Computerized GMAT produces error 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Upon finishing the computerized version of the Graduate Management Assessment Test (GMAT) between October 12 and 21, 400 test takers received an unexpected error message instead of their scores. Despite the surprising message, the tests were not affected. "This turned out to be a display error, not a data collection error," said Educational Testing Service (ETS) spokesperson Kevin Gonzalez. A total of 10,000 peqple took the computer adaptive test (CAT) version of the GMAT, which is taken by business school applicants, during the two-week peri­od. Gonzalez said scores were not affected by the error, and test-takers had the option of manually canceling their scores. The test takers received a hard copy" of their scores_ within 10 days. Previously, a software glitch occurred with the GMAT on a December 1997 test. "A small percentage of test takers [were affected]," Gonzalez said. 
~ Ufll!VERST!Y OF t\~!i\ll\!ESOTA Student groups join in fees lawsuit 
__ MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
Three student services fees.'."funded groups will attempt for a third time to join the University's side in a fawsuit against the fees system in a hearing before a U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals three-.iudge panel. Lawyers on both sides say the outcome of the Nov. 20 hearing could have a significant impact on the case. In February, five students filed suit against the University, claiming their First Amendment rights are violated ·because student services fees funct groups who engage in political and ideological activities. The La Raza Student Cultural Center, the Queer Student Cultural Center and University YW student groups were specifically named in the law­suit. The groups have since tried to join the University's side of the suit to protect what they say are their First Amendment rights to free speech. Jordan Lorence, the plaintiffs' attorney, said the student groups have a signif­icant free speech argument. 
ti MICHIGAN STATE UN!VERS!TY Fraternities investigate Rohypnol use 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

As two MSU fraternities are conducting internal investi­
gations for alleged use of the so-called "date-rape drug" 
Rohypnol, the MSU and greek communities are on guard 
against further incidents. East Lansing police are investi­
gating at least one case of a woman being slipped some 
kind of a sedating drug, East Lansing police Officer Dan 
DeKorte said. One case may have involved sexual assault, 
WXYZ (Channel 7) in Detroit reported Thursday on its 11 
p.m. broadcast. Rohypnol, also known as "roofies," has a sedating effect, and people who take it do n61 remember what they did under its influence. "With the information we have now, I don't want to name any chapters," said Kelli Milliken, president of the Panhellenic Council. "If 
·these allegations are found to be true, the police will intervene and the individuals will be sent through the judicial process." Both fraternities are conducting their own investigations. 
l\i AMERlCAN U!\HVEHSITY ACLU recognized as a student club 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

The AU chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union 
experienced some problems with registering as an official 
club recently because of university regulations regarding 
lobbying, said Jarrett Perlow, the president of the AU 
ACLU. On Oct. 8, after a month of delay and a modifica­
tion of its charter, the organization was finally recognized 
as an AU student club, said Perlow, a junior in the College 
of Arts and Sciences. The delay was caused when the 
Office of Student Activities' Recognition Committee, which 
is in charge of reviewing club charters, questioned a 
clause in the group's original charter. As a result of that 
inspection, the AU ACLU found out that it cannot lobby, he 
said. Perlow said he was contacted by Johnette Ruffner, 
coordinator for student clubs and organizations, and 
asked to clarify a certain phrase in their charter. The 
dubious sentence was included in the "purpose" section of 
the· charter. 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather0 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
National weather The AccuWeather<"' forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 2. 
............... .......____ ....,.......... 
~ 1998 AccuWcothor, Inc. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

@"""'© D E3 ~ l·:::::·.I l·:::·::-:1 t:::::::I 
High Low Showoro Rain T-atormo. Flurrloa Snow lco Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assocfatad Pross 

NATIONAL SUMMARY: Steady rain will soak an ai-ea. from Missouri to soulhern Indiana today, and showers will stretch to West Virginia. Clouds and showers wlll llngar in Kansas and Nebraska, and a few showers and thunderstorms '.'"'ill march across Mississippi and Louisiana. Tho Great Lakes states will be chilly. A few flurrlcs will fly rn northern Michigan. Snow showers wlll occur in the Rockies. 
Atlanta 58 77 Cleveland 43 51 Miami 69 85 

-

i:)-~ , & Baltimore 33 59 Dallas 51 70 Minneapolis 35 45
~,~,~~~ a 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Boston 43 55 Denver 29 42 San Antonio 54 72 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNot Chicago 45 54 Madison 42 48 Santa Fe 32 57 
Monday, November 2, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Halloween Spirit took many forms this weekend at Notre Dame. Army ROTC decorat­ed vans to deliver Halloween baskets to area hospitals (left). Students view jack-o-lanterns at Keenan Hall's Great Pumpkin Contest. (below) John Steffan and Amy Sellers mal(e an odd couple as Elvis and Cleopatra (right). 


All photos by The Observer/Dave LaHeist 
@ @

d d
annon appo1nte-associate 
Special to The Observer 
Dominican Sister Kathleen Cannon has been appointed associate dean of the College of Science at the University of Notre Dame, according to Francis Castellino, dean of the college and Kleiderer­Pezold professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 
As associate dean, Cannon will have various responsibili­ties in the administration of the college, including work on college and university com­mittees. Her duties also will include advising associated with the collegiate sequence and international programs of the college as well as with the joint honors program of the Colleges of Science and Arts and Letters. 
She also will continue to teach part time in theology. 
Cannon served Notre Dame as associate provost and a faculty member in the theolo­gy department from 1990­
. Looking for a Well Paying Campus job? 

The Observer Advertising Department is currently hiring for Advertising Account Executives. Great RESUME BUILDER for all majors. FUN AND EXCITING WORK, opportunity to make GREAT MONEY. Sophomores and Freshmen in Business school are strongly encouraged to apply, but the position is open to all job seekers at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Stop by our office in 024 South Dining Hall with a resume, or call 1-6900 and ask for Bryan. 
1997. During her tenure in the provost's office, she designed and implemented the Distinguished Women Visitors Series, a program that has brought more than 40 senior women scholars to campus for extended visits. 
She also initiated the Women's Award of Achievement which over a three-year period recognized the achievements and contri­butions of 18 Notre Dame alumnae from all the colleges, the Law School and Graduate school. She also pursued and articulated the need for on­campus child care, an initia­tive that resulted in the Notre Dame Early Childhood Development Center­




;ean o 

Cannon's duties also includ­ed advising the provost on a range of academic matters including women's concerns, the coordination of personnel matters for regular faculty and academic liaison with Saint Mary's College. She chaired both the Commencement Committee and the Faculty/Student Committee on· Women. 
Cannon earned her B.A. in mathematics from Ohio Dominican College, an M.A. in religious studies from Providence College and was awarded a doctorate in min­istry from the Catholic University of America. Prior to coming to Notre Dame in 1990, she was on the faculty 
University of Notre Dame 

International Study Program 
at 



NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
Informational Meeting With Professor Greg Gundlash Fr. Bill Miscamble, C.S.C 

WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 4, 1998 
4:45 PM 126 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE 1999-00 APPLICATION DEADLINE DEC 1 
f ©


science 

of Chicago's Catholic Theological Union. She also taught at Albertus Magnus College in New Haven, where she was chair of the religious studies department, and she has held visiting positions at American University, Princeton Theological Seminary and Notre Dame. 
A specialist in homilectics, Cannon has published in the New Dictionary of Sacramental Theology, The Encyclopedia of Catholicism, Liturgy, Homily Service and Markings, as well as The Bible Today and New Theology Review. She has served as a member of the General Council of the Dominican Sisters of Columbus, Ohio, and on the boards of Albertus Magnus College and Ohio Dominican College. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 2, 1998 

The Obseiver/Dave LaHeist 
Father Austin Collins, art department chair, presents Edna and Leo Riley with a bronze sculpture of Cardinal Newman in gratitude for their donation to renovate the Riley Hall of Art and Design. The build­ing was rededicated Friday. 
WHEN: 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 

FREE ­
WHERE: 
La Fortune Hesburgh Library 

BRING STUDENT l.D. 

continued from page 1 

for the people that are involved because it's going to be me next year. It's just innocent fun that gets taken out of hand," she said. "People are still going to do it no matter what [the pun­ishment]." 
Hurley anticipates continued public announcements warning 

continued from page 1 

Additionally, graduates of women's colleges are twice as likely to earn their doctoral degrees or enter medical school. Another draw for prospective students considering a women's college is that women who gradu­ate from all-female colleges earn median salaries $8,000 higher than those earned by women who graduate from coed institu­tions. 
The challenge for the College now is seeking out the two per­cent of high school students who are initially interested in attend­ing a women's college, Briggs said. · 
Tom Zoss, director of market­ing and public relations at Saint Mary's, a newly created position, said the College has what is ca.lied a "niche market." 
"People may not realize what an advantage it is to be a women's college until you play it out," Zoss said. 
Another challenge Briggs faces is convincing women who have attended all-girls' high schools and think they might want to 


ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Presentation and Information Session 
Monday, November 2, 1998 6:00 -8:00 pm Room 112 Center for Continuing Education 
All students interested in learning more about 


the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 
Interviews -Full Time 
II

Tuesday, November 3, 1998 

You're in good hands. 

Check with Career & Placement to schedule an interview time. 
~gainst the thro~in~ of objects m the stands. EJect10n of stu­dents and confiscation of pro­jectile-like objects will also con­tinue. 

"This is really out of charac­ter for Notre Dame. I don't think that our students inten­tionally want to injure anyone and it's unfortunate that thi~ had to happen," he said. "Fun, is fun, but when fun is getting people hurt, we have to reeval­uate our definition of fun." 
experience a coed environment for their college education, that a women's college is a different experience than they had in high school. 
"vVhen I talk to these students r emphasize the independence ~ women's college offers versus the all-girls' high school environ­ment," Briggs said. "I tell them about the opportunities for lead­ership and chances to grow. 
"They won't find the same chances for leadership at a coed school. Hero, all the officers of every club on campus are women." 
Other students worry about the social opportunities a women's college can offer them, Briggs said. 
In the end, a women's college is not for everyone, regardless of how many statistics a.re present­ed and testimonials from stu­dents, Briggs said. 
"Choosing a college is defmitely a personal choice," she said. "We talk a.bout finding a good match. For some students, they will never feel comfortable in a single gender environment. 
"It's too bad we can't hand them a crystal ball to allow them to be able to see the benefits a single gender education will bring them in the future." 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
RECRUITMENT MEETING FOR 1998-99 
WITH 

PROFESSOR OLIVIA R. CONSTABLE 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1998 
4:30 PM 126 DEBARTOLO 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
' ' 
!:~t 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1999 • 00 Academic Ycar 
"When~ Do We Go From Here?" With Professor Paul McDowell 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 3, 1998 
7:00 P.M. 
ROOM 217 DEBARTOL0 
Returning stuclcnl~ will be on hancl lo answer questions 
Monday, 
November 2, 1998 
Ads anger hog farmers 
RALEIGH, N.C. 
The state Democratic Party pulled a televi­
sion adcritical of Republican Sen. Lauch 
Faircloth after hog farmers complained that 
it sullied their reputation. The ad reminded 
voters of a 1996 liquid sweet potato spill at 
Faircloth's cattle farm in which thousands of 
fish died. Said the announcer: "Lauch 
Faircloth ... polluting our rivers ... voting to 
protect the polluters." Although the spill 
involved Faircloth's cattle operation, the ad 
featured pictures of pigs. Barbara Allen, the 
state Democratic chairwoman, confirmed 
Saturday that the party had pulled the ad 
after being contacted by several hog produc­
ers who were also Democratic Party contrib­
utors. "We have such loyal supporters who 
arc farmers who are doing the right thing in 
protecting the environment," Allen said. "So 
we pulled it." 
Glenn feeling "comfortable" 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
John Glenn is amazing not only his doctors 
but himself: He's suffering no queasiness 
whatsoever or any other discomforts in 
space and feeling so energetic that he's tried 
out the shuttle commander's seat. "I've 
snuck up there and sat down a couple of 
times to see what it feels like, I must admit," 
the 77 -year-old former test pilot said with a 
laugh. In his first news conference since 
rocketing into orbit last week aboard 
Discovery, the world's oldest space traveler 
said Sunday that he expected to be nauseous 
the first day or two considering that two­
thirds of all astronauts wind up with "stom­
ach awareness ... or worse. I haven't had 
any of that so far. It's been great and I've 
been quite comfortable," he said. 
Wales welcomes maggots 
SWANSEA 
Amid the gentle, green hills of south Wales, 
maggots and bloodsucking leeches are 
breeding at a shocking rate, multiplying by 
the thousands. And that -believe it or not 
-is a good thing. The squiggly creatures, 
being bred in labs here, not only are helping 
doctors save lives and limbs worldwide, 
they're drawing attention to a region quietly 
developing in to one of Britain's leading 
biotechnology centers. Once doctors and 
their patients overcome the squeamishness 
of using fly larvae and bloodsucking worms 
to treat serious wounds, they find maggots 
and leeches contribute to cleaning and heal­
ing better than anything produced by man, 
distributors say. "More and 'more people are 
coming around," said Dr. Stephen Thomas, a 
wound-therapy expert who heads the mag­
got-producing Biosurgical Research Unit at 
the Princess of Wales Hospital in Bridgend. 
fldh'Wt!JjH1tlllWlllJU1• 

Dow AMEX: 
645.41

]ONES +7.93 Nasdaq:
8592010 
1771.39 


+14.20 
NYSE: 
543.35 
+7.04 
S&P 500: 
1098.67 

Composite Volume:
+12.74

+97.07 699,100,000 

COMPAQ COMPUTER ADV MICRO DEVICE  CPQ AMD  +6.07 +12.81  +1.8125 +2.5625  31.65 22.5625  
CITIGROUP  CCI  +4.01  +l.8125  '17,0625  
COLUMBIA I ICA  COL  -2.89  ·0.6250  21.00  
WENDY'S INTL TELEP-PERU  WEN rnr  -14.29 +0.48  ·3.5000 +0.0625  21.00 13.00  
MICRONTECll  MU  ·4.8S  -1.9375  :rn.oo  
MERRILL 1.YNCI I  Ml:H  +4.75  +2.6875  59.25  
AMERICA ONLINE  AOL  -1.07  -1.3750  127.0625  
llANKAMERICA  BAC  +0.55  +J.3125  57.4375  

Study: Jefferson fathered slave's baby 
ASSOCIATED PRESS phone interview Saturday at Monticello. "We will fol­descendent of Madison, said 
from her New York City low the truth where it she hopes the study will act 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. home. "lt is really great leads," he said. as a catalyst for discussions 
Descendants of one of news." Elizabeth Dowling Taylor, on race. Thomas Jefferson's slaves, Jefferson, who became head guide and a tour "It shows more of us are Sally Hemings, say they feel president in 1801, was developer at Monticello, said related than many of us vindicated by the results of accused publicly a year later the new information will be believe," said Banks-Young, a genetic study that offers of being the father of sever­mentioned to visitors begin­who lives in Columbus, strong evidence that al of Hemings' children. ning immediately. Ohio. "Just accept it ­Jefferson fathered at least Hemings was a slave at Before the genetic study, Jefferson fathered black one of her children. Jefferson's Monticello estate the case for Jefferson's children." 
The study, which will be in Virginia. paternity rested on evidence The DNA study was orga­published Thursday in the Scholars have been divid­of physical resemblances nized by retired medical journal Nature, links ed about whether to believe between Jefferson and sev­professor Dr. Eugene Jefferson to the last of it. eral of Hemings' children, Foster, who cautioned that Hemings' children, Eston. Daniel Jordan, president and the statement of one his study doesn't prove 
"You can talk about it as of the Thomas Jefferson son, Madison, that his moth­paternity. much as you want, but sci­Memorial Committee, said er named Jefferson as the "l can't say it seals it. But entific validity proves it," at a news conference father of all her children. it is very, very, very likely" Eston descendent Julie Sunday that the findings will She had at least five. that Jefferson was Eston's Westerinen said in a tele-be evaluated by historians Shay Banks-Young, a father, Foster said Sunday. 
Monday, November 2, 1998

page 6 The Observer 0 NEWS 


Cohen: UoSo to work 
Associated Press turbed the somber ceremony. Nctanyalrn, leader of the



with allies against Iraq 
Police spokeswoman Linda opposition when Rabin was JEH.USALEM Menuhin said five people were prime minister, was blamed by Prime Minister Benjamin arrested. both Habin's family and mem­
Associated Press issue until Monday, a NationoJ 
Netanyahu laid a wreath at a On November 4, 1995, as he bers of the left-wing Labor party 
Security Council spokesman 
graveside tribute Sunday to was leaving the rally in Tel for contributing to the poisonous 
WASHINGTON. 

said. 
Yitzhak Habin, three :iears after Aviv, Rabin was shot and killed political atmosphere leading up
Defense Secretary William No additional U.S. forces were 
tlrn Israeli leader was to the assassination. 
Cohen said Sunday that the being moved to the Persian Gulf 
shot and killed by a President Clinton said
United States prefers to act vvith region, and U.S. forces had not 
Jewish ultranationalist 
in an interview with
its allies to resolve the United been placed on alert, said 61;fTH1NK ALWAYS WHEN
followfog a peace rally. Israel's Channel 2 TV
Nations' latest standoff withIraq Pentagon spokesman Lt. Cmdr. 
Several demonstra­JllI'M PUSHING THE. PEACE that it was still difficult
but holds out the option of uni­Anthony Cooper. 
tors at Jerusalem's for him to talk about
PROCESS FORWARD THAT I'M
lateral military action. Cohen said unilateral U.S. mil­
Mount Herzl cemetery Habin's death. 
Cohen, breaking off a planned itary action against Iraq has heckled Netanyahu DOING IT NOT JUST FOR "I must say for mutour of Asia, met for two hours "always been an option we could 
and shouted, that was more than a
MYSELF BUT ALSO A LITTLE
at the White House with pursue, ... but we prefer to act 
"Murderer! political loss: I felt very
Secretary of State Madeleine through our allies and with our FOR (RABIN.]'
Murderer!" during the close to the prime minis­
Albright and other top U.S. allies if we have to take any 
ceremony, attended by ter, to Mrs. Rabin. I got 
national security officials to action at all." 
politicians, Rabin's 

BILL CLINTON to know their children,
work out a response to Iraq's "The preference is to keep it 
family and dignitaries. grandchildren," Clinton
latest defiance of U.N.-mandated exactly where it is today, a con­
Those in attendance said.
inspections test between 
laid flowers and stones "I think always when
for weapons Iraq and the 
at the grave, a Jewish tradition. by 25-year-old Yigal Amir, who I'm pushing the peace process
of mass United 
None of the unarmed heck­said he wanted to stop Habin's forward that I'm doing it not just
destruction. 'T;.HE PREFERENCE IS TO Nations," 
lers approached Netanyahu, land-for-peace policies with the for myself but also a little for
Iraq banned Cohen told
KEEP IT EXACTLY but their shouts clearly .dis-Palestinians. him," he said. 
U.N. inspec-reporters at 
tion teams WHERE IT IS TODAY, A CON-
Andrews Air 

from working TEST BETWEEN IRAQ AND Force Base just outside
in the country THE UNITED NATIONS.'
Saturday after Washington the· U.N. WILLIAM COHEN after he Security DEFENSE SECRETARY returned from 
Council renewed its refusal to lift economic sanctions against Iraq. The Security Council then demanded unani­mously that Iraq reverse the ban. 
The Clinton administration appeared ready to let the Security Council take the lead, and there seemed little chance of an immediate military response. France and Russia, council members that have taken more lenient positions on relaxing the sanctions in the past, firmly rebuked Iraq and called for compliance with the 
U.N. Special Commission, known as UNSCOM. 
"I personally am very pleased that the U.N. Security Council, including some people I thought had been a little tolerant with him in the past, strongly con­demned what he did," President Clinton said in an interview with American Urban Radio Network. 
Clinton, out campaigning for Tuesday's midterm elections, was briefed about the situation but did not plan to convene his foreign policy advisers on the 
the aborted 
Asia trip. 
"The best 
thing is for 

Saddam (Hussein, the Iraqi president) to comply with these agreements." 
Cohen, Albright, George Tenet, director of the CIA, and the president's national security adviser, Sandy Berger, were meeting late Sunday at the White House "to review the situ­ation and appropriate action," spokesman David Leavy said. 
The United States was con­sulting with its allies through the United Nations, he said. 
"The Security Council made clear last night that the latest actions by Baghdad. ai·e an affront to the Security Council and the international communi­ty," Leavy said. "That kind of behavior cannot be tolerated.... UNSCOM must have (unblocked) access to the sites." 
Under an agreement reached with Iraq at the end of the 1991 Gulf War, the UNSCOM teams must certify that Baghdad has destroyed all its weapons of mass destruction before the Security Council can lift econom­ic sanctions. 




©I 
© 
WEDNESDAY,. N VEMBER 4, 1998 CENTER FOR SOCIAL C NCERNS 5:lOP 


PLEASE CALL OHSA TO R.S.V.P. 
631-6841 
page 7 Monday, November 2, 1998 The Observer 0 NATIONAL NEWS 


Clinton encourages blacks to vote 
Associated Press stituency, Clinton cited reports of for voter intimidation in an effort 
voter intimidation in Maryland to keep black Americans from 
BALTIMORE and other states and said black voting," 
With a slew of Democratic can­Americans in particular have a Nicholson said. "I renounce any didates alongside him, President responsibility to beli'e expecta­effort by either party to engage in Clinton urged members of a black tions of low turnout in their com­activities that prevent or discour­church congregation Sunday to munities. age any lawfully registered voter turn out in large numbers and "Your vote counts just as much from exercising the franchise and support his party's candidates on as mine, just as much as Speaker call on the president to apologize Election Day. Gingrich's," Clinton said as some for his comments immediately." 
"On Tuesday, you control the congregation members hooted at The committee, which has arithmetic," he said. the mention of the Georgia warned its state parties to guard Clinton told about 3,000 wor­Republican. against tactics that could be con­shippers at the New Psalmist In the radio interview, Clinton strued as voter intimidation, also Baptist Church that. voting is said the alleged intimidation was said Clinton was taking an unfair "part of your walk to dignity," a reported in Maryland, Michigan, shot at a time when the simple action that he said con­Kentucky, Georgia and North Democratic Party was running 
tributed to his administration's Carolina. He said it involved ads that seek to cast Republicans successes and every government plans for extra police officers to as hatemongers. decision that has benefited watch some heavily black "I call upon the president to Americans. precincts as voters come and go. direct the Missouri Democrat 
Later Sunday, Clinton said in an "We asked the Republicans to party to withdraw and apologize interview that he believes partic­renounce it," Clinton said. "They for radio commercials suggesting ipation by black voters could be can easily show they're all wrong that a vote for Republicans would the deciding factor in several factually.... Nothing would please lead to chur.ch bombings and races. me more than to say this is some­cross burnings, to renounce the 
"I think in many districts it will thing the Republicans have commercials airing in Texas that 
be, and perhaps in some of these renounced." 'take away' the dream of Dr. 
close Senate seats," Clinton told Republican National Committee Martin Luther King Jr. and com­
American Urban Radio Networks. Chairman Jim Nicholson mercials in Maryland which 
"I just want to make sure we light denounced Clinton's remarks as falsely suggest that the 
a fire under our voters and that "low and divisive rhetoric" and Republican candidate for gover­
they know what's at stake. I think asked for an apology. nor is a racist," Nicholson said. 
we're going to do pretty well on "The president of the United At the church, the president 
Tuesday.'' States today falsely and improp­sprinkled his message with bibli­
Trying to boost turnout among erly suggested that the cal references and quotations 
blacks, a loyal Democratic con-Republican party is responsible from Martin Luther King, Jr. 




;\II financial companies charge operating fees [variable annuity] policy, and is even compet­.fiand expenses-some more than others. Of itive with the cheapest mutual fund complexes, course, the lower the expenses you pay, the better. though it offers far more benefits."' That way, more ofyour money goes where it 
"TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the 
should-towards building a comfortable future. 
f"mancial services industry." We make low expenses a top priority. 
Of course, expenses are only one factor to 
As the largest retirement system in the consider when you make an investment decision. world' -a nonprofit company focused exclu­1\tlorningstar also noted our commitment to sively on the financial needs of the educational "consumer education, service" and "solid and research communities -our expenses are investment performance." Because that can among the lowest in the insurance and mutual make a difference in the long run, too. fund industries.' At TIAA-CREF, we believe people would 
In fact, TIAA-CREF's 0.31 % average fund like to spend more in retirement, not on their expenses are less than h;:i.lf of the expense charges retirement company. Today, over two million of comparable funds:' It's why Morningstar­people count on that approach to help them one of the nation's leading sources of annuity and build a comfortable and secure future. So mutual fund information -says, "At that level can you. To Find out more, call us at [TIAA-CREF] is cheaper than any other 1 800 842-2776. \Ve'd consider it a compliment. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.s.-.• 
I. Based on $236 billion in ;:isscts under management. 2. Standard c_"l' Po,1r.'1 /11,111J~11tct• R,1/1i1_q dnir~V·'l;,, 1998: Lipper Analytical Scn·ices, Inc., 
Lrj1p,·r-JJir1·do1\1°A11r1~11tical Data 1998 (Quc1rtcrly). 3. OF the 4.829 variable annuities tr<Lckcd by j\\orningstat', 1hc iLvcragc fund had total fees combining annual expenses of0.82% plus an insurance expense oF l.27%. Source: 1\·\orningstar, Inc., for periods ending 7/31/98. 4. Source: J\'\ol'ningstar Principia l{wiaMc· ~111111il1'c,1/L~·1~ 4/30/98. 
TIAA~CREF. expenses .:ire subject to change and arc not guaranteed l'or the l'utun:. P<tst performance is no gual'antcc of future results. Tlt\J\-CRE.F Individual and Institutional Services distr·ibutcs CRI~F certificates .:ind interests in the TI:\A Real Estate Account. For more complete inf'orm;ition, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2776, extension 5509, for the prospectuses. 
· Read them carC'f'ully before you invest or send money. 
College campus evacuated 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. 
Part of a college campus was· evacuated Sunday because of a bomb threat, the latest in a series of incidents that started with two fire bombs placed in Concord libraries last week. 
An a.nonymous call Sunday morning warned that three bombs had been placed on the campus of the New Hampshire Technical Institute, said Mike Moffett, the school's public information officer. 
About a dozen buildings were evacuated, including a state police training building and the Christa McAuliffe Planetarium. A police bomb squad gave the all-clear after about 2 1/2 hours of searching turned up no evidence of a bomb. 
"You'd have to antic.ipate things like this," state police Lt. John Stevens said. "You have to take it seriously. It's very disruptive to the operation of these places, but you can't just dismiss them." 
Two children's shows had been scheduled during the morning at the planetarium. The college also had planned an open house Sunday, but Moffett said it was canceled. 
Two pipes bombs were found Tuesday at the city and state libraries. One bomb started a fire on a bookshelf at the city library, but no one was injured. 
FBI agents have said the bomber threatened to place two more bombs at undisclosed locations Saturday. 



page 8 OE~ERVER -----------------Monday, November 2, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSJSTANT MA.1'\'AGING EDITOR Hc:uhcr MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MA.1.~AGER ............... Kerry McPardin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Lluil An DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Ilrett Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kachlecn Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Ilrouiilct SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Oybg CONTROLLER ...•........................•.....•..Davc Rogcro 
Krisri Klirsch WEn ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cildb PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Oalum 
The Observer is the indC"pcndcnt ni.."wsp;ipcr published bf rhe students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame.du L1c and S.:iim Mary's College. Ir does nm nccess<1rily reOcct the policic." of the ;1dminisrr.1cion orcirher insrirucion. 111c news is reported as accuratdy ~md objccrivdy as possible. Unsigned c<litorials rc:presenc chc opinion of the majority of the 
Edimr-in-Chief, !>.fanJging Editor, A"sistant Managing Editor ;me! deparrmem cdirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors, and nor necessarily rhosc ofThe Observer. Viewpoint sp:.icc is avaibble w ;111 members or the Nom• Dame/SJ.int MJ.ry's communiry :md w :J.JI reJ.dc:rs. The free expression ofv;irying opinions through lcuers is encour.igcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
Edicor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 M:m:i.ging Ediror/Assisr::mr Lv1E 631-4541 AdYcrtising 6.'l 1-6900/884 0 News/Photo 631-5323 Svsrcms 631-8839 Spom 631-454 3 F~x 631-6927 Scene/Saint ~bry's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Yic:wpoint. J@nd.edu Doy Editor/Viewpoinr .631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnc:ws. l@nd.edu 




Big Ten, Big Name, 
Why not join the Big Ten? You proba­bly didn't see the front page article on last Sunday's South Bend Tribune_ It was all about Notre Dame joining the Big Ten. How convenient for the powers that be that such articles come out when most students are away. It's a nice way of making things public without making them known. But there's no need to sneak us into the Big Ten. There's no need to be hush hush about this deci­sion. It's a big issue. (By the way, where are the crack reporters at The Observer, eager to get the scoop on a big story? Or has the Observer become a one-story paper?). 
Needless to say, there should be a big debate about it. But people around here are strangely silent. Nobody on the administration wants to talk about it. They don't return reporters' phone calls. They cancel interviews. The public rela­tions office has no comment. Why the secrecy? Or has the decision already been made, and some people are fretting over how to break the news to a recalci­trant student body and angry alumni. Or are they quietly approaching alumni to ensure their continued support? 
But there's nothing to hide. When the dust clears, the administration can be sure, if.it has not already been decided, that joining the Big Ten, is not a Big Mistake. This move can only be a big help for those who are here for reputa­tion, research and money. For example, it will probably make it easier for me to find a job when I graduate. But that's not all. 
Just look at the advantages. The Big Ten offers opportunities for student exchanges. Students could go to Northwestern to learn Swahili, or Wisconsin to learn Polish. They could take classes on Beatleology (history of the Beatles, no joke) offered by profes­sors of Beatleology. Of course, Notre Dame does not have the resources to hire a professor who studies the Beatles and only the Beatles. 
The article from last Sunday's South Bene! Tribune claims joining the Big Ten will increase our purchasing power, introduce us to new technology, give us access to high performance computers, allow us to buy in bulk (kind of like Sam's Warehouse). It even says that once we join the Big Ten we will be able to compare our­selves with Big Ten schools. An administra­tor at Penn State said 
before Penn State joined the Big Ten, he was never able to com­pare his school with Big Ten schools, but now he does it all the time. According to another Big Ten official, joining the Big Ten will allow us to "be part of something larger," so that we can "be larger" ourselves. These are terrific goals, become a big consumer that can lise a lot of money to buy a lot of stuff. Who could argue with that? 
·BigTen schools also offer Big Classes. Big Ten professors getBig research grarits, so they don't usually teach these classes. Instead, foreign graduate stu­

ig Bucks 
v .... , 
-:.,..-.~ exam­,. 7 ple, " have you ever asked yourself how many schools are 
in the Big Ten? To 

save you some time, the 
answer is ELEVEN. What do the high 
performance computers have to say 
about that? Have the officials of the Big 
Ten figured this out yet? What does that 
say about the quality of a Big Ten educa­
tion? If Notre Dame joins, that will make 
twelve. But the Big Twelve has already 
been taken, so we might have to move 
away from the numbers game and come 
up with a more.creative title for the con­·ference. On that score, there is nothing like 
calling a spade a spade. We could steal an acronym from a notorious group and call ourselves the NRA for short, National Research Academies. Looking at the information of these other univer­sities, however, this would be a problem. Now, several of the other universities are calling themselves World Class Universities. And I thought the debate was just about being national or region­al. 
Besides the problem of naming the conference, there will also be the prob­lem of what adjectives to put before our own name. In the Article in the South Bend Tribune, a theology professor says that Notre Dame is an "Independent National University." A philosophy pro­fessor questions, "Do we want to be a regional University?" It took an econom­ics professor to ask the question "What about our status as a Catholic University?" One Big Ten ofiicial admit­ted that joining the Big Ten might involve the loss of some autonomy. 
Finally, will it enable us to remain true to our founding principles? Will it allow this University to remain committed to the goals Father Sorin sought? Next to the architecture building you can find a reproduction of a letter that Father Sorin wrote to Father Moreau back in the 1850's. It's worth reading. It con­tains Fr. Sorin's hopes that this universi­ty would one day be of great service both to the Catholic Church and to this country. By adopting the goal of becom­ing "larger," of becoming a "national" university, or of becoming a "research" university, do we run the risk of serving neither the Church nor this country? Or has this institution already lost those concerns? 
JeffLangan is a graduate student in the Government Department .. His column usually appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in thi.'{ column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


GARRY TRUDEAU 


'Education is an·admirable 
thing, but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing worth knowing can be taught.' 
-Oscar Wilde 


Monday, November 2, 1998 OB~ERVER 


Ahmad Off the Mark in Affirmative Action Dialogue 
Nakasha Ahmad's Thursday editorial is awash in weak reason. Too many people willingly reduce the issue of repealing affirmative action to liberal vs. conservative, bad vs. good, sensitive vs. insensi­tive, Republican vs. Democrat, etc., etc., ad nause­um. Too many seem content with "My side no mat­ter what" -without listening, without considering, without reason, 'by whatever means necessary.' Among acceptable means, apparently, are mis­leading logic and sensational accusations. 
The purpose of affirmative action is NOT to guarantee equal opportunity. Equal opportunity is already guaranteed under the law. Affirmative action is intentional unequal, preferential treat­ment extended to 'historically-disadvantaged' groups in an attempt to 'right past wrongs' and, m.ore importantly, to try to break the cycle of inequality (the so-called 'good old boy network'). This is a laudable aim (that means GOOD). This is an attempt to 'broaden the economic franchise.' This is also a finite program. 
Affirmative action, by its very nature, is designed to phase itself out, to make itself obsolete. The question is not "Should affirmative action be repealed?"but "When should affirmative action be repealed?". In other words, when has this pro­gram helped achieve as much parity as can be reasonably expected? That, obviously, is not an easy diagnosis to make. That is up to scholars and politicians to debate and local voters to decide. 
Ahmad bemoans the fact that UC Berkeley turned away 800 black and latino applicants with exceptional credentials as if they were not treated fairly. The simple fact is that they did not make the cut oIT -their race had nothing to do with it, and yet she responds as ifit did. I'm sure UC Berkeley turned away thousands of identically-qualified whites. That's life. California's repeal of affirma­tive action simply stated that race could no longer be considered a criterion for acceptance -a poor­er-performing black could not be favored over a white, a poorer-performing white could not be favored over a latino. That is equal opportunity. Ahmad states that "qualified minorities are being turned away.'' Nothing could be further from the truth. While highly-qualified, these 800 students were obviously UNDER-qualified for admission to UC Berkeley. Ifthat is not true, then UC Berkeley 

Coppolella 
I have a great deal of respect for the hard work all of you put into our school's daily publication, but I have become a bit frustrated with the extreme lack of writing skill displayed by your sports columnist, John Coppolella. 
In the past I have been very dismayed with the with foundationless argument of sports that Coppolella proposes. For instance in one of his past columns he was all but sure Florence Griffith­Joyner used performance-enhancing drugs -there is no factual base behind this statement. It is the equivalent to me writing that Joyner died as a result of heart failure she suffered while having a nightmare about incompetent writers covering her personal life. In the same, weak writing style, bul­let form article, Coppolella states that Cal Ripken Jr.'s consecutive games played streak should have ended long ago. It seems as though Coppolella is abusing his privilege of having a colurrin by simply ranting against the norm. He does this without any true knowledge of sports and he never supports his points with any facts. 
This now brings us to the most recent abuse of the God-given ability to communicate through writing. Last Wednesday, Coppolella wrote about the New York Yankees, obviously his favorite team. The main source of his rant concerns a poll by the ESPN SportsZone -an opinion poll, is pret­ty much the bastion of sports facts and history. The truth is Coppolella wanted to venerate his Yankees, but could not take the time to research his own set of historically dominant baseball teams. His pot shots at Red Sox fans are complete­ly unnecessary. The Observer is not a New York paper and Mr. Coppolella is certainly not Mike Lupica (somebody needs to let him know his "shots from the lip" are far om. 
Coppolella then defines the modern era by stat­ing that it is after World War II, after the first $100,000 contract, etc. He never clearly explains his idea of baseball as business and how it was not as much of a business before World War II. The glaring mistake in his definition of the modern era is the failure to recognize the fact that the color has broken the law. Affirmative action doesn't enter into it. Ahmad goes on to argue that, since the college-educated are less likely to be on wel­fare (only four percent), the rejecting of these 800 students amounts to increasing welfare rolls. Wow, that's some twisted logic! I'm sure a good number of those 4.0 GPA, 1200-or-more-on-their­SAT college applicants, when turned down by UC Berkeley, immediately gave up on life and enrolled on welfare. 
I have a great idea: let's grant college degrees to everyone on welfare. Apparently it will make 96 percent of them self-sufficient! (notice the water­tight logic). The truth is, UC Berkeley is the most competitive school in the University of California system. Most people do not meet the school's stan­dards. If they don't meet those standards and they're not admitted, it's no great travesty of jus­tice. 
Ahmad goes on to say that "it would be nice if there was [sic] no need for affirmative action -if we lived in a colorblind society, where everyone was treated fairly." They ARE being treated fairly! Their rejection by UC Berkeley was not an injus­tice. Affirmative action does not treat them 'fairly,' it treats them specially; it does not seek equal opportunity, but extra opportunity. Ahmad cries out that "women and minorities still need equal opportunity, equal education, equal pay.'' Amen. That's guaranteed under the law. But that has lit­tle to do with affirmative action. One must not defend the 'cruel' repealing of affirmative action, one must prove that it continues to be necessary. The onus, the burden of proof, is upon those advo­cating affirmative action. 
This is not to say that affirmative action should be struck dowrl. But while we debate its continu­ance we need to keep in mind exactly what it real­ly is, Affirmative action has done great good. It has enabled thousands (if not millions) to achieve what they would not have done otherwise. At what point does its continuance propagate more inequality than it remedies? I don't know. I surely don't know for California. 
Michael Newhouse 
MDiv, Fischer Graduate Residences 
October 30, 1998 


eeds Help 
barriers were broken in 1947.by Jackie Robinson. I guess that is a too obscure fact to research for this gifted columnist. Furthermore, what do luxury boxes have to do with ~he 1998 Yankees being the best ever? 
Coppolella does use statistics in this article, but they are as weak as his writing. Paul O'Neill, a member of the 20-20 club -that must be the first time a baseball player has ever hit 20 HRs and had 20 SBs in a season, right John? The left fielders of the Yankees put up some of the best numbers in baseball. What were they? Compared to who? The ludicrous idea that Shane Spencer would have been a competitor in this year's home run race is both an insult to Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa and anyone who writes a column. 
I was not going to write this letter, but Coppolella's statements about Cincinnati Reds Hall of Famers Johnny Bench, Joe Morgan· and Pete Rose are an outrage. He writes about Morgan being more known as a sportscaster; that is a real­ly good point. The fact is, young John does not know about Morgan because he does not know about sports. Morgan is second to Ryne Sandberg for most home runs by a second baseman. His comments about Bench and Rose are equally dis­respectful and unwarranted to the handling of the issue he claims to be addressing. Whatever these baseball greats do now has nothing to do with the Yankee team of1998. Let's be honest, Coppolella's writing prowess could not do a story about the athletic supporters of Bench or Rose. Simply put, this kid does not deserve to have a col­umn. 
The Observer has good writers. Somebody ­Heather Cocks, Brian Reinthaler, Kathleen Lopez, Derek Betcher, Allison Krilla -help this kid or stop letting him print a column. 
Jerry Barca 
Senior, O'Neill Family Hall 
October 28, 1998 

Gavin de Becker and 
The Gift ofFear 

On Wednesday, Gavin de Becker will present a 7 p.m. talk, "The Gift of Fear -Survival Signals," in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. 
Cappy 






Gagnon 
Members of the Notre Dame 

community who watch the Larry 
King and Oprah Winfrey shows 
will be quite familiar with de 
Becker, who is widely considered 
to be the country's leading 
authority on stalking and predict­
ing violent behavior. He is a fre­
quent talk show guest on the top­
ics of stalking and dom.estic and 
workplace violence. 
Oprah began her June 17, 1997, show by advising her audi­ence, "I don't say this very often, but this show could save your life. If you are a woman, or you know a woman, or if you have a daugh­ter, nieces, cousins, aunts -this book could save their life.'' She devoted the entire show to an interview with de Becker and a discussion about his work in threat assessment, stalking and domestic violence. 
In the past year, The Gift of Fear rose to The New York Times bestseller list, where it remained for four months. The recently­released paperback edition became a national bestseller in its first week. 
Gavin de Becker was used as a consultant in both the criminal and civil cases against 0.J. Simpson. He is a three-time Presidential Appointee. He has designed artificial intuition sys­tems for predicting violence that are currently in use by the United State Supreme Court, the Central Intelligence Agency, the U.S. Capitol Police and the United States Marshal's Service. 
Although de Becker states, "There is more fear in the United States than there is risk," this presentation could have a great impact on students who attend. According to recent studies, one woman in twenty will be stalked. De Becker will present case stud­ies in stalking and domestic vio­lence and advise persons on steps to take to prevent and respond to problems with unwanted pur­suers. The program will feature interviews with stalkers who car­ried out their threats. 
One of the most useful parts of de Becker's talk will be a list of behaviors used by persons up to no good. Students will learn quickly to recognize "forced teaming," "typecasting," "loan 
sharking" and other strategies. 
For more than two decades, 
Gavin de Becker, Inc. has provid­
ed life safety services to celebri­
ties, CEO's, and the enteiiain­
ment industry. The Los Angeles 
Times called Gavin's company 
"The Hollywood Secret Service." 
The New York Times wrote, "If 
James Bond needed a bodyguard, 
he would hire Gavin de Becker." 
Because of his work protecting media figures, de Becker recog­nized some common threads and patterns which linked obsessive fans with other unwanted pur­suers. He created a "Threat Management Division" within his company and invested large amounts of time and money to the study of Threat Assessment and Management. He convened a Threat Assessment and Management Meeting (TAi\1M), in Honolulu in 1983, bringing together a small group of multi­disciplinary experts to explore ways to provide better services in stalking-type cases. 
Gavin de Becker, Inc., now 
houses the second largest collec­
tion of threat materials (the 
Secret Service has the largest). De 
Becker created a computer soft­
ware program (MOSAIC) for 
assessing this material. Several 
later refinements of this software 
have been tailored to domestic 
violence, threats against judges, 
threats against corporate entities, 
etc. His company has provided 
threat management services on 
more than 18,000 cases. 
Gavin de Becker wrote the California Stalking Law. When asked what legislation or societal change he would favor, he unequivocally answers that he would like to see a required class to teach young women how to recognize and avoid threats. Gavin is the founder and co-chair (With actress Victoria Principal) of "Victory Over Violence." His firm is the principal funding source for the Los Angeles County Domestic Violence Hotline. 
All members of the Notre Dame Community can be justifiably proud of the environment in which we live and work, but that should not be cause for relaxing our guard or failing to prepare for the worst which could befall us. Gavin's talk vvill be entertain­ing and thought provoking. 
It may even be life-saving. 
Cappy Gagnon, '66, is the Coordinator ofStadium Personnel for Notre Dame. He workedfor Gavin de Becker for 11 years and was one ofeight participants at de Becker's 1983 TAMM Conference. E-mail him at gagnon.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this col~ umn are those ofthe author and. not necessarily those ofThe ·· Observer. 


OTHE ----------------Monday, November 2, 1998 
page 10----------------------------~ BSERVER 



pot of the actual world.
swish into the net and firefighters are

a teacher ominously warns her students 
Ross's script succeeds as a
needed only to rescue cats from treetops. 

that in the coming years more people will 
critical commentary on the
His exhaustive knowledge of

die from AIDS than from car accidents, 
misguided yearning for a
"Pleasantville" trivia makes him a shoe­

there will be more people competing for 
glorified past that never
in for the $1,000 cash prize being oITered 

fewer jobs and the depletion of the ozone 
existed, except on televi­
to the winner of' a "Pleasantville" trivia

and subsequent global warming will lead 
sion.

to worldwide flooding and famine. contest. 
After a questionable
On the fateful weekend that opens the

Faced with such gloomy prospects, 
choice of roles in twilight,
film, a 24-hour marathon session of

who wouldn't want to return to 
Reese Witherspoon delivers
"Pleasantville" reruns are shovm to pre­

America's glorious Golden Age in the 
her most memorable per­
pare the contestants. Unfortunately, the

1950s, when divorce \Vas low, teenagers 
formance since her first
timing of the marathon coincides with a

abstained from sex and "Gee Whiz" was 
film, "The Man in the
television rock concert to which Jennifer 

a vulgarity? At least that is how the pris­
Moon." Although the trans­
has invited her dream date.

tine "Father Knows Best" era of 
formation her character
An argument breaks out between the

Hollywood prefers us to believe things 
undergoes is a bit incredu­
two over who has viewing rights to the

11vere. 
lous, Witherspoon remains 



ing's hort story becomes apt film 
The film begins in the"Pleasantville" 1990s with two high­school twins, David and Jennifer, demonstrating Director: Gary Ross contrasting degrees of social success. Jennifer
Starring: Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, 
(Reese Witherspoon) is William Macy, Joan Allen andJeff beautiful and promiscu­ously popular; David
Daniels 


(Tobey .Maguire) is nerdy and socially eITete. 
David's favorite pastime is watching episodes of "Pleasantville," a black­

(Out of five shamrocks) and-white television pro­gram centering around an eponymous idyllic town in the 1950s, where
By RICHARD CRIBB 
everything and everyone is perfect. The

Scene Movie Criric 
climate and the citizens are always warm, the nuclear family is in tact, thereAt the beginning of Gary Ross' ("Big," is no sex or violence, basketballs always"Dave") imaginative and witty new film, 

Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema 
Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon in "Pleasantville." convincing both as vixen 
and as a book-worm. Tobey Maguire's appear­society. ance and demeanor convey an informed 
The transformation from virtue to vice innocence that generates a sympathetic and perfection to imperfection is repre­identification with his character. sented onscreen by the gradual transi-Don Knotts reprises the manic role he tion from black-and-white to has played so well throughout his career. Technicolor. ' It would not be surprising if he receives a 
After a protracted stare between Bud's nomination for Best Supporting Actor. 
"Apt Pupi.l'' 
Director: Bryan Singer 
Starring: Ian McKellan, Brad Renfro, Bruce Davidson andJoshua Jackson 

(Out of five shamrocks) 
By JENELLE WILLIAMS 
Scene Movie Criric 
Why do people do what they do? How 
much is genetic and how much is depen­
dent on environment? How often must a 
person perform an act before it becomes a 
habit which cannot be erased; an instinct, 
realized or unrealized, that cannot be ·controlled? 
Detached from the mundane melodra­
ma typical of teenage life, Todd Bowden, 
the central character of "Apt Pupil," dares 
to ask these questions. 
The answers he receives forever alter 
his view of the surrounding world and 
even his own personality. 
Adopted from a short story by Steven 
King and produced by the director of "The 
Usual Suspects," "Apt Pupil" is the tale of 
Todd (Brad Renfro,) a high school student 
possessing a morbid fascination with the 
Holocaust. 
Unsatisfied by the information taught in 
his history class, Todd frequents the 
library every day after the 3 o'clock bell 
and delves into the past, seeking an 
of blackmail unfolds. 
After extensive stalking and data col­lecting, Todd convinces Dussander that the power to turn the criminal into the Israeli police lies only a phone call away. 
But Todd agrees to keep silent in exchange for an unorthodox history les­son. Todd wants to know everything. He wants to know all the grisly details of the atrocities Dussander committed during the war. He wants to know "everything they're afraid to show [him] in school." 
Of course, true to Steven King, this rela­tionship between Todd and Dussander produces terrifying consequences. But this film is not as far-fetched as "The Shining," "The Stand" or "Tommy Knockers." Instead of showcasing supernatural phe­nomenon, "Apt Pupil" deJves into the human psyche by addressing the reality of brainwashing and exploring subconscious motivations and murderous instincts. 
In nearly all of Steven King's works lies the tried and .true, yet ever-present battle of good and evil, usually depicted by two distinct characters or two groups· of' char­acters. 

answer to the pressing The "good" person is typically lured to ago, serial killing continues. and haunting question,,, the dark side, into the clutches of the evil The motivations of such actions are still 

"Why do people do what they do?" 
In the midst of his research, Todd uncovers a deadly sErcret. Kurt Dussander (Ian McKellan), a Nazi war criminal, had been living incognito in Todd's town for over 20 years. Sometime after this discovery, specified by a title card as "One month later," Todd summons his courage and confronts Dussander. 
Thus, the wholesome, loving valedictorian's plan character, by a single, overpowering, and unknown. Are they instinctual? Do they fatal flaw-greed, result from a sense love or .in this of duty, or just instance, curiosity. pure, twisted 

The plot then fol­sadism? lows the persecu­Although not for tion of the person those with truly representing all weak stomachs, that is good and this movie features wholesome, until very little gore and the final confronta­blood. Much like tion which the style of' Alfred undoubtedly leaves Hitchcock, the a permanent mark unnerving scenes on the victim is leave much to the had. imagination. The 
Although they do scenes are quick not wear white and and the camera black or explicit blacks out at all of signs around their the key points. necks, Todd Animal lovers, be Bowden and Kurt warned, there are Dussander follow some sketchy carefully orches­scenes involving the trated roles. death of little crea­
Todd is clearly tures that may be 
good, while quite disturbing. 
Dussander is the For those that 
epitome of evil. enjoy a good psy­
But perhaps the chological thriller, 
most frightening Photo courtesy of TriStar this film is perfect. 
aspect of this most Ian McKellan stars as a Nazi war criminal in It possesses all the 
recent King film is the film "Apt Pupil." the reality-based background. An usual integral aspect of Steven King's twisted tales is one haunting question that usually remains unan­swered. Could this really happen? 
This time, in this story, the answer is yes. The Holocaust really occurred. Thousands upon thousands of people were executed at the hands of such men as represented by Dussander. And while World War II ended more than 50 years key elements which 
push viewers to the ends of their seats, biting their nails expectantly. 
The purely instrumental soundtrack heightens the drama and propels the film to a level above tlrn typical horror ilick. 
The suspense is spread out beautifully and the end is well-crafted. It ha<; intellec­tual depth and historical foundations. But most importantly, it can definitely cause a few sleepless nights. 
"Pleasantville" is Gary Ross' inspired attack on the phenomenon of gilded nos­talgia in which the reality of the past is seen through a sugar-coated lens. 
Ross, in a recent interview, stated that "people are nostalgic for something I didn't feel was real. They sanitized this memory. They created a kind of perfec­tion out of the past." 
Ross' film attempt to draw out the con­sequences of such a sanitation. 
living room television that night. In the tug-of-war that ensues, the remote con­trol is irreparably damaged, rendering the knobless television useless. 
Not to worry, though, bflcause a myste­rious TV repairman, played by Don Knotts at his quirky best, arrives at the doorstep with a high-octane remote con-· trol. 
"You want something that'll put you right in the show," he prophesies. 


I t bl t f' th'' t
pea an\ ;:·a 1 ~rom {Le pas 1 
A skirmish over the magical remote propels Dave and Jen directly into the cast of the "Pleasantville" program as Bud and Mary Sue Parker, the children of George (William Macy) and Betty (Joan Allen). They sport 50s style clothing and haircuts and appear in black-and-white as everything else in the town. · 
While David is content to role-play the character he already knows so well, Jennifer is livid about being deprived of the glamorous popularity she enjoyed back in the real world. 
Soon, Pleasantville's firemen are going to be required for more than just rescu­ing cats from trees, as Jennifer's incendi­ary intentions begin to inflame this wholesome town. Her seduction of the basketball team captain leads to the dis­covery of hidden passions that gradually unweave the moral fabric of this perfect boss, Bill (Jeff Daniels), and his mother, Betty, a rose appears in bright red. Reality is indeed blooming in Pleasantville. 
Soon, the majority of the town's citi­zens are "colored," as passions for romance, beauty and knowledge take possession of their souls. This prepares the stage for a final showdown between the "coloreds" and those in the town who resist change, remaining black-and­white. 
"Pleasantville" is entertaining and sat­isfying movie-going fare. It transports the moviegoer into a nostalgic utopia and then shows why such a utopia is illusory. 
As the town is painted in a variety of shades of color, it becomes more nuanced. Moral ambiguity and uncer­tainty arise, and the tranquil paradise. of a cut-and-dried world is replaced with 
the more miscible melting 


Monday, November 2, 1998 


.·~.·-...•.. ·_ .••'.:••.•. 1.0.,.••.··_,,_._:.·.;.•.•'····.•_ _\_'...:.\,,_:t.·.·...1.·.~.•:.._·.·.·.·.·.·.·..•.•_< ..•:.h.e. ·s .. .••. ·•·.·.u.:n fofofosted:1n hfsti:ibcal
•.11.·.1..··'.'..t.:r.·.·.•.;.:.·.·.·.:..•:.1..:.·;.·,$,:_•·.•·.•.·.:.:_': •.. .··.··.:······.···.·.·.·.•.1.· ·. .....i.eg~··.:.·.·.··.•.:.wi .....•. ·.·.o.t.·. :l)~····..~.).
• .,.. · ·· ·· ' ··· ".~ ..• :PPP1ll~f,Jiln1ph.gic;i;i: B~tit <lfiii#a.. aI1~i.liti~~;;.W~9 
••1t·~1~&-\\'~~c1•aiY:¢r:~.··• •.··•·•:Mr~l11!-~·r~iig:1i.~E:f~~~ .. ·•·rm~~tJ~~·~t~g~rn~'1~~·m~t
~~ty fl()6(1$ ·th~< ··· · • • ;:''.J?rn~aty qc;lqt?.f: :fu<l ;;t~r~ , ()sclif witIIoye. .•·• :····• •· <•·· ·.··..-··· 
a:ters •rtext •week • ···•····· .piick.~d and high>~ut}get .. •• •• ~itj~~y; iiTli~ ~if<i:i:ci <~~ 
·· ········· ···· ······ ·· 'rn:6Vi~fth'.af1ailed'fq;ina~e:•· Oz':•is•!)crre(:).uleclto he:.·•··· ·F'iJl~~-0p~ilW1t.tiiis•·~~e¥-•<? cforit i,i1•.tliebox: ciffice-.>·:::·, · •Fe!'e~~~s~q.;ron6wiiig~t~e·· 
. . . ·..en.d:.1.·n.. ..l:u .. •.·.·h.•.i... ...gh.... '• ... d.. r.am.·.a.; · :··:••«r"•...·h• ··w•·•t'·"·''B··:a·.er•. oy,<011.1e... :,;::-:·•·•·u·.. :.. ..t.•·s·.· ..··..·.· ..··.e·.·.:.·•.•.· ..'.'..·.·S..t.·a·.·.r·
...·.c.; .. a..e . ...... · .... e.,• ·.·f·Q···.o·.·. ..·•te"..p·.·.··s·..•.·_··....·o··r ...·.·t·h ...· s~~p!>.tic~ copie.dy;o.typiqa,I : 9 t1v~.r:.l'lri.!1tl·'s.tiirripg.Adci'aj. :VV:,t1~s''·;tr.ilq~y. ::.21'.ii!3t 0spar-fa~~ ~fnhtj,i_itj:-aqi~o1:-·. ::.SaJi,dle1\;look.s.to:buH:d .. ;Godfat~~(' .:and: ''GQl}B ·
11 1
a,. •c.: a,$sm;•·•.·< Js:Jstypu;a, .•·•· : :@@m.e ;¢9!il~cii~n:.~i$U.~;: :Witti :'IJ1-e Win<l:"'.fhis \yillp()st7I:Itill0Yy~<:li1JI<)l1Y:911<1pd; . cess with ";nie. Wedding he m~1a1y 'Siic es'f' rco ··· llS i~·.p1:epar()S 'foi· ;th() 11\jli;" Singer." . ..... J~Jtlp!;1iiJJ~,ltJi¢lf~~~~r;;thday••seasori'·· an&tlie· · · Th······· ..•.. · w·: c1·····1· ·· · :km~·who:have'-Chefl$liea: 
·.As····.··.·····t····c.·.·.a····.•.~.•·.T.· ..··e·1· •. ..•··.·.·.•.•.1_..~:·.•.·.· ... •.·.·.· ·.•.•.1.·•.. ...·.······:._•··.s··········a·.···.·.•.•... •.t.D···.·.1···1··.·.·.e·•.r.·.·.• .. ••.~.· ..•.e..·.··..r······1·.·.•. ... ••. ·.•.1Yn·.1·;·h··.•.•.-.•.• .•.~.·-• ..·.·.:_·.·.·a·.·.~.· ...•_$Pr.·.·.. a.•·y·e .•.... ..dG.·.1········.·.~1·.·.e.1·_•·.:rn· ...!.-.s.·.P._•.•.P,•.h.a•.·.· ...·:'····.··.: 0
.. Yg··S·.·· · ..·.···e·a·.·.·.· ·.·.·.•.· ... ... ·.z1.•.•.e ....·.·.•· .. ·~ .•a·a······-·d~
...r·.d·'·.·.·.lr:•.••..·.1·.··m·e····n.•·.······· ••e... ·.w·.··g· .. ..·.·.d.. •. ...·.· -_••..•.·.•· •.•.n1.· :··.•.-_••.•.•_: ..a.·H·.· ..PP ·.• .. ·.··•.·.·1'.s·.··_·•.o·.w··-·····-r·.;.1c•.·.1.1_• ....•·n•.• :themovle\:>'1it~ltivllii'Ofratict'1 0 011 1 
.•''Billy:Ma~isoit'.l:is:so1ne~ -.·· :_..•...."e· e·····.-·r·.?.·.·.1·.•.e·i..•_bc·.·.-.·.•.·.·e•.u_••......d··.t··.· .......e•.. ·.a········-· ·.·v ·.·.·.1:·.-z· .....•... •.·."d·.·. r·.·.·
.. ·.•x .. 'n_ ...:.··t·.··.h.n ...._·.·v·.·. .•.•.,·.:.e:.~ ..•P·.·. .. •.·

.·.·.·.·.q.P·.·. ..~.·.·• VV'.asfiipgtpn <iriti)A.n 1wtt~ ···•••t·h"m"'g· ·t·h·"a·t''s··1·1·o":'"d.. b"e· .h...1·g..hl"y· ". •.O·.z··.'.'•.·.··<''.t". fl..... e..·.·m·..·l·.i.VI·.e·..·..·.·t1.1.·e·.·at.·.e. r.........·.·.·.•.·.•..
I~ehili ·,.. seeril.s tO.comc•&ra ......·. ·. :.. ( : .lli : : : . ·... ·' LU 
· . ·.··· $ .... ·····.·····....... ·.. ·· .....····· ·.. ..· . :.desrr()Cl ar'Q!J1igtqi$ '.fifuli of ·..·::·.· yvhet1')ibu:.decfde:Vi/hieli. tim.e ·Vl'.!1e11 tJ:ip;t~1p11,tei:s;are year. . ....... ··: ..·.. > < :inoVie' to se'e· t.l:\l$ Weekei1'ci • filled >vvith highlya.n\iGipaF.: ··.:ajso:open:ing :this~eek~ · • yol! .c[ezj.rly •Jla';e ~~veJ:ai..•' 
e.d.. •.filn1.s,. s.it.... c.J·1·ru·s.'.·.·.~.o.kJ\.~ca. " ........•.. ·.e·.n.d :·.1·...s·.• '. '.E11·.z.a·.·.be.·,t.. h... ··,·.~.'.··. :..a·..·· •... ·.1·11m··.". •.· .. ·1 .. .. ..If ·.. --1 · th .. · .. · ... · · 
. (f . ... · . ··· ' , ·· ·· C lOICCS. ,OD y e,re was (l'. ~.·.r._•·.·....h.·.·.·,i_M,s.·...• •...._.e••·.: ...••._i.J.1.....~.·.·e.t.·....•.'_·.B.t•..·.·.·.o.1 •.·.• ·.c.s.·.k.a.·.·.,·.'y'.·.·.·......•.t._.·.•.h.,· .. · • @011~. J31·Hish::r{)yatty. '11iis hiovie: C1vllh: alie~sz ~st er""
·•.·.i_· ......... t.• .. .• _a_.. ...·.·.a..t.· 
. ·t;is f11.ot~for'w9:Yi~gtjhrs .m#Iif¢1Y<Jtii~~()-peif13c1:> 
Movie Title/Gross Sales 
1. 
John Carpenter's Vampires ($9.2 million) 

2. 
Pleasantville ($6.6 million) 

3. Practical Magic ($5. 1 million) 
4. 
Antz ($4.1 milllion) 

5. 
Bride of Chucky ($4.0 million) 

6. 
Rush Hour ($3.4 million) 

7. 
Beloved ($2.6 million) 

8. 
Soldier ($2.58 million) 

9. 
What Dreams May Come ($2.4 million) 

10. 
Apt Pupil ($1. 7 million) 


Source: Associated Press 

Video Title  
1 .  City of Angels  
2..  Mercury Rising  
3.  Wild Things  
4.  A Perfect Murder  
5.  Lost in Space  
6.  Primary Colors  
7.  The X-Files  
8.  The Wedding Singer  
9.  The Object of My Affection  
10.  The Big Lebowski  

Source: Billboard Online 


Video Title 

1 .  Titanic  
2.  Lady and the Tramp  
3.  Lost in Space  
4.  The X-Files  
5.  The Evil Dead  
6.  Paulie  
7.  Austin Powers  
8.  Starship Troopers  
9.  Quest For Camelot  
10 .  Backstreet Boys: The Video  

Source: Billboard Online 


At the video store 
Deep Impact (available) Godzilla (Nov. 3) Les Miserables (Nov. 3) Small Soldiers (Nov. 10) 
Source: Hollywood.com 
Are you an avid fan of video games? Are your bad grades due to Nintendo 64, Sony Playstation or your PC? If so, you might want to write video game reviews. Call Scene at 1-4540. 
By JOEY LENISKI 
Scene Movie Cri ric 
This past Halloween, many students at midwestern colleges feared for their lives in some recess of their minds. Rather than wrapping themselves in some plastic or rubber concoction and following their friends out, they succumbed to adolescent paranoia and stayed indoors, wary of the tale that had spread across the region. 
Humor had it that a psychic, possibly from tlrn "Oprah V\linf'rey Show," predict­ed that the slaying of 10 to 20 female stu­dents habitating a dorm shaped like an eight or an "!-!" at a midwestern college, would take place at the hands of a slasher dressed as Little Bo Peep. 
I am not female. nor do I live in a !ig­ure-eight shaped building, but for some sick reason I find the Little Bo Peep char­acter absolutely horrifying. So instead of engaging in "drink-or­
town with $40,000 worth "Psycho." of stolen money and one hell of a guilty conscience. She stops for the night at the Bates Motel, where soft-spoken proprietor Norman (Anthony Perkins) befriends Ms. Crane and engages in small talk about life, love and taxidermy. 
This upsets Mother Bates, who comes down from the towering black house behind the motel and introduces Marion to her 12-inch kitchen blade in the now famous shower scene. Poor Marion never even gets a whiff of her complimentary continental breakfast. 
Norman discovers how mommy made a new li"iend and, like any good son would do, carefully discards the body at the bot­tom of a muddy reservoir. Enter Marion's lover and sister, who retrace her steps after she comes up missing. They ulti­mately end up back at the Bates Motel. 
A few stuffed animals and bloody mur­ders later, the film reveals the truth about the brutal slayings and the Bates family, a psychotic oedipal-twisted tale which makes the Hamlet story look like "The Donna Reed Show." 
No'body' is better at combining visual and thematic elements of horror than Alfred Hitchcock. He is able to establish the perf'ect backdrop for this movie through expert use of high-contrast light­ing, staccato editing and a camera-style which is careful not to reveal the whole story but gives you enough to keep your hands bloody. 
Unlike contemporary thrillers like "Urban Legend" or "I Know What You Did Last Summer," which 
treating," I locked the 
rely on a technique known door to my room and rent­in the cinematic world as ed Alfred Hitchcock's 'Things Jumping Out From masterpiece "Psycho." Behind You,' this film cre­
This touching film for­ates a genuine sustained ever changes the way we feeling of dread and fright, view pleasant, relaxing which is twice as horrifying showers and roadside as simply being surprised. motels shrouded in rain­In the world of scary filled darkness. What bet­movies, "Psycho" set the ter way to celebrate a original standard and potentially deadly night helped establish the mod­alone! ern psychological thriller. It 
The story is typical fare is also the one horror coming from the film's movie with brains (not seen genre -panic-stricken on screen, of course). vixen Marion Crane (Janet Later this winter, Gus
Photo courtesy of Universal 
Leigh) drives away from Anthony Perkins stars in Van Sant ("Good Will 
Hunting") will attempt to 
remake this legendary flick 

when a contemporary "Psycho" is released, starring Vince Vaughn and Anne Heche. While this may be regarded as a sad attempt to corner the youth market vvith a staple of '60s cel­luloid, it will be interesting to see how modern filmmakers interpret the Hitchcock style. 
But I recommend seeing the black and white original before viewing the updated version, simply because remakes never live up to their forerunners. And please tell me how it is, because I am not leaving my dorm room until Little Bo Peep is cap­tured and shot dead. Nwnerous times. 
Vikings see unbeaten streak crumble against Bucs 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

So much for Tampa Bay's shaky offense being a liability against the explosive Minnesota Vikings. When the Buccaneers are at home, they're on solid ground. 
Moving the ball and scoring almost at will, the Bucs broke out of an offensive funk with a team-record 246 yards rushing Sunday and beat the NFC's last unbeaten team 27-24 on Mike Alstott's 6-yard touchdown run with 5:48 to go. 
Alstott ran for a career-high 128 yards on 19 carries and Warrick Dunn gained 115 on 18 attempts, giving Tampa Bay (4-4) a pair of 100-yard run­ners in a game for the first time in franchise history. 
"I couldn't feel any better than I feel right now," Alstott said. "We knew what we could do. It was frustrating those first seven weeks, because we kept hurting ourselves through penalties and missed opportu­nities. 
"A lot of people were saying we needed a new quarterback or we needed some offensive linemen. All we had to do was go out there and execute." 
Randall Cunningham was outstanding for Minnesota (7­1), completing 21 of 25 passes for 291 yards and two touch­downs. But his only intercep­tion led to a second-half field goal, and the Vikings' last three possessions didn't produce points. 
Meanwhile, the Bucs rolled 
up a season-high 378 yards 
total offense to remain unbeat­
en (4-0) at Raymond James 
Stadium, their new $168 mil­
lion home. 
In its four victories, Tampa 
Bay averaged 194 yards per 
game rushing. In four road 
losses, the Bucs averaged just 
under 58 yards on the ground. 
"In this league, you have to 
be able to stop the run first. 
And, you have to be able to run the ball yourself. That's really the only way you get your rhythm," Vikings coach Dennis Green said. 
"Even though we had 24 points, it was clear we didn't have the rhythm. We made some big plays, but we didn't have the rhythm." 
Trent Dilfer had one of the best days of his five-year career for Tampa Bay. Although his passing numbers -11-of-22 for 132 yards and one TD ­paled in comparison to Cunnigham's, he avoided costly mistakes and delivered his share of key plays. 
Dunn scored on a 10-yard run, Dilfer threw a 12-yard TD pass to Reidel Anthony and Michael Husted kicked a 29­yard field goal on Tampa Bay's three first-half possessions. The TDs were the first scored by the Bucs offense in the opening half this season. 
"I made enough plays to help us win, but I really felt like our offense came out with an atti­tude to dominate the game," Dilfer said. "We didn't make many mistakes ... and when we did make one, no one pan­icked." 
Cunningham threw TD passes of 44 and 1 yards to Jake Reed, while Robert Smith scored on a 9-yard run and Gary Anderson kicked a 44-yard field goal for Minnesota that made it 17-17 at the half. 
"It was one of those games where you have a shootout and whoever has the ball at the end of the game wins," Cunningham said. "They got the best of us today, but we humbly accept this loss and we'll just keep on going. It's not going to knock us down. It's not going to knock us out." 
Dilfer and offensive coordina­
tor Mike Shula have been 
under fire because of Tampa 
Bay's lack of production, par­
ticularly during last week's 9-3 
loss to New Orleans. 
After gaining just 236 yards against the Saints, the Bucs controlled the ball for more than 18 minutes of the first half and scored on all three of their possessions. 
However, Cunningham kept pace by making the most of the limited time the Vikings offense was on the field. He was 4-of-4 for 52 yards on the drive that produced Smith's touchdown, then threw his 44-yarder to Reed and set up Anderson's field goal with a 41-yard com­pletion to Randy Moss. 
In the second half, it was Tampa Bay's turn to keep up. 
The Vikings scored on their fourth straight possession, tak­ing a 24-17 lead on Cunningham's second TD pass to Reed just over five minutes into the third quarter. 
Dilfer moved his team from its 32 to the Minnesota 5 before the Bucs were stopped on downs, eschewing a short field goal. The gamble wasn't as costly as it appeared at the time. 
Derrick Brooks intercepted Cunningham's pass on Minnesota's next possession to set up Husted's 38-yard field goal, which trimmed the Vikings' lead to 24-20. 
The Bucs forced the first punt of the game with 10 minutes remaining and marched 43 yards to go ahead for good on Alstott's TD run. 
The Vikings, off to their best start in 23 years, tried to keep the loss in perspective. 
"I think we'll take it just like anyone else -be disappoint­ed," Green said. "After 24 hours, we'll say: 'It happened yesterday,' and look forward to the next ball game." 
Green Bay 36, San Francisco 22 

Brett Favre and Antonio Freeman overshadowed the top scoring duo in NFL history and saved the Green Bay Packers' season on Sunday. 
The two connected for touch­down pass plays of 80 and 62 yards as the blitz-happy Packers beat the San Francisco 49ers 36-22 at frenzied Lambeau Field. 
The Packers' nine sacks of Steve Young were the team's most since Oct. 24, 1965, against Dallas. 
Freeman caught seven passes for a career-best 193 yards as the Packers and 49ers both went home 6-2, one game behind Minnesota for the NFC's best mark. 
Young set two more NFL records: most TD runs by a quarterback and most TD toss­es to one receiver -Jerry Rice. But in the end, Young was bat­tered and beaten -and win­less in eight career starts against his No. 1 nemesis, the Packers. 
After blowing a 16-0 lead, Green Bay regrouped in the second half by blitzing Young and returning to the quick­strike offense that sent them to the last two Super Bowls. 
With the score tied at 22, Favre hit Freeman for a 62­yard TD toss with 11 minutes left in the game. Freeman beat Marquez Pope and Merton Hanks, the same two he burned on the first play from scrim­mage for an 80-yard score. 
Reggie White had three sacks, giving him 11 for the season, the12th time he's reached double digits. 
Five of Green Bay's sacks came in the first six minutes of the fourth quarter after Favre's three-interception performance was threatening to send them to 5-3 with a three-game road trip coming up. 
Sack No. 7 resulted in a fum­ble at the San Francisco 11 that Santana Dotson recovered for Green Bay. 
Travis Jervey rumbled in from there for his first NFL touchdown, bouncing off R.W. McQuarters at the 5 and plow­ing into the end zone for a 36­22 lead with 9:30 left. 
The 49ers, who lost to the Packers in the NFC champi­onship last season, extended their losing skid to Green Bay to five, including playoff losses the last three seasons. 
San Francisco overcame an early 16-0 hole and trailed 19­13 at halftime after linebacker Lee Woodall intercepted Favre in the end zone with 28 seconds left, beginning a string in which three of six passes would be picked off. 
Safety Zach Bronson's inter­ception on Green Bay's first possession of the second half set up Garrison Hearst's 30­yard TD romp that tied it at 19. 
Holder Ty Detmer dropped the snap on the extra point, continuing a long day by the kicking team. In the first half, Keith McKenzie blocked Wade Richey's extra point, and punter Reggie Roby let a snap go through his hands for a safe­ty. 
Safety Tim McDonald's inter­ception at the Green Bay 48 set up Richey's 20-yard field goal that gave San Francisco its only lead, 22-19 with 4:45 left in the third quarter. 
After Richey's 47-yarder hit an upright, Ryan Longwell tied it at 22 with a 45-yarder at 
13:14 of the fourth quarter. 
Young turned to an old favorite to get the 49ers back into it after Robert Brooks' 30­yard TD catch made it 16-0 in the first quarter. 
Young and Rice became the NFL's top quarterback-wide receiver duo when they con­nected for a 12-yard scoring toss in the first quarter, break­ing Dan Marino and Mark Clayton's record of 79 TDs. That made it 16-6. 
Young's 1-yard touchdown run in the second quarter was his4lst TD rushing, surpassing the NFL mark for quarterbacks held by Jack Kemp, and pulling San Francisco to 19-13. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edi, all classifieds for content wi,hour issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30 am -Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies, we're open! 
Early Spring Break Specia\s!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!\ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotel,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
l1osT & FOUND I 
LOST: 
Pair of black leather gloves 
before break. Please help me 
find them my hands are 
freezing. If found please call 
Danny at 287-2557. Thanx 

WANTED 
SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun·Nassau· Jamaica'Mazat\an 
•Acapulco'Bahamas Cruise'Florida'South Padre Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs.Lowest price Guaranteed.Call now for details! www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411 
CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED 
EARN UP TO $11.00 Part-time work around class. No telemarketing. Car needed Scholarships available, call 2:30 until 5:30 mon-wed. 282-2357. 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.14 Free Meals + 34 hrs. Free Parties.America's best prices & packages.Campus sales reps wanted Earn free trips +cash 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 

FOR RENT 
1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR 
CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW 
GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road,Exit #107 1-800-418-9487 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.LOVELY HISTORIC JNN,FULL ELEGANT BREAK­FASTS.4 GUEST ROOMS,A/C,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.$99.00 Call 616-695­6321 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­
rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153. 
HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES 
614 S. ST JOE; 9 BED/4 BATH 518 S. ST JOE; 8 BED/2 BATH 532, 534 S. CARROLL; 7 BED 1016 S. BEND AVE; 7 BED 820 S. BEND AVE; 5 BED 630 ST. PETER; 5 BED 606 ST. PETER; 5 BED 610 ST. PETER; 5 BED 1718 E. WASHINGTON;2 BED 602 ND A VE; 5 BED 1082 WOODWARD; 2 BED ADDITIONAL HOMES AVAILABLE; ADDRESSES GIVEN UPON REQUEST 
THESE HOMES ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE 1999-2000 SCHOOL YEAR 
CALL KRAMER @ 674-2571; 2-33­4509;0R CELL 276-7020 
1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272­6306 
Roomate Needed,College Park, Second Semester Call 243-1115 
4,5,or 6 in your group?\ have the houses for you-call Greg 233-9947 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM 232-2595 


FOR SALE 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 

FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! Bed box set. not available in 
U.S. call pete at 251-0178. 
93 Toyota Tercel, 4 spd, 60K mi, AC/Radio/Tape. 273-8459 alter 6pm. 
1 BLK. So. of N.D. ALL BRICK RANCH 728 PEASHWAY 3 BED ROOMS-2 FULL BATHS 2 FIREPLACES-2 CAR GARAGE FINISHED BASEMENT PHONE 272-2252 
.____T_I_c_KET_s
__ ____.I 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETiv1ART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 

ND Football-Buy-Sell.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 

2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. 
2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. 
2 LSU TJX!Call Andrew at 904-947­6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. 
2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by 11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323 x4709 Iv msg 
Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048 



I"''"~~,:~,~:~ 
$3/hr. Own car, refs. 289-0332. 

"Don't Get Burned on Spring 
Break" 

Spring Break Packages are going 
fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica 
Packages for the Class of '99!Stop 
in at Anthony Travel in the 
LaFortune Student Center and 
check outthe best Spring Break 
vacations around.Get your deposit 
in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a 
chance with an unknown agency or 
some 1-800 number.Limited space 
available,so book now! 

Anthony Travel,lnc. 
LaFortune Student Center 
631-7080 

Looking for a unique gilt? 
Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures and we'll create a custom color cal­endar. 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
RIGHT TO LIFE CLUB GENERAL 
MEETING Find out about the trip to D.C. in January and other events 
TODAY @ 9:30 P.M., 123 NJEUW­LAND 
All are welcome 
Gavin deBecker and "THE GIFT OF FEAR" 
I love Gilad. I mean, he's mar­velous! 
Shannon, why was there pi in the sports section? 
I mean it from the bottom of my Hart. 
I like pumpkin pi. 
But I had apple pi instead on Friday night. Yesterday's makes good pi. 
3.14159265853 ..... 
2217 
To Reintha\er: Don't forget that scary tripods await custommade saws in Wal-mart fields of wild 
green ketchup stains. 
hey smc girls, thanks for a fun hal­
loween weekend. 
Julie, thanks for not letting me dance with the cops. 
Gina, will u marry me? luv, usher. 
Ali: "\ believe" that I'm going to wooster school. 
to whom it may concern in section 30 of the stadium: having a hot dog pelted against your skin at 90 mph is not a fun way to start a football game. In fact, it was rather painful. Don't do it again or the squid is coming your way, pall 
marie, we don't need the stress hot line. we are 2 tufl. oh, yeah sucker. 

Monday, November 2, 1998 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

--...::_ 
fl NEW YORK CITY MARATHON 
Kagwe repeats as champion 
Associated Press thought of withdrawing. 
"At five kilometers I started NEW YORK to feel my stomach," she said. John Kagwe did not have to "At 20K I wanted to pull out. worry about loose shoelaces ·Then I decided to slow it 
this time. 
Instead, he had to contend with Kenyan countryman Joseph Chebet and Tanzania's Zebedayo Bayo. 
For the second straight year, Kagwe proved the best, win­ning the New York City Marathon on Sunday in 2 hours, 8 minutes, 45 seconds -three seconds ahead of Chebet in the second-closest finish in the race's 29-year history. 
"Last year, I felt it was my race to win," Kagwe said. "This year, I was not that sure. Chebet was tough." 
Kagwe disproved the theory that a runner had to perform well in shorter races leading to the marathon. 
Last year, he finished second in the Philadelphia Distance Run Half-Marathon in his final preparation for New York. This year, he was eighth. 
While Kagwe was pressed by Chebet and Bayo, who was third at 2:08:51, the women's race turned into a runaway for Franca Fiacconi. 
She became the first Italian 
to win the women's division, 
setting a personal best by 
nearly three minutes. 
She was timed in 2:25:17, 
beating runner-up Adriana 
Fernandez of Mexico (a 
national record of 2:26:33) by 
more than a minute and world 
record-holder Tegla Loroupe 
of Kenya by more than five 
minutes. 
This was the second-fastest 
NYC Marathon by a woman, 
behind only Australia's Lisa 
Ondieki, who ran 2:24:40 in 
1992. 
Loroupe, who set the world 
record of 2:20:47 at 
Rotterdam in April and won 
the New York City Marathon 
in 1994 and 1995, couldn't 
overcome severe stomach 
cramps and finished third at 
2:30:28. • 
"I wanted to break 2:28," 
said Fiacconi, who had fin­
ished second at New York in, 
1996 and third last year. 
"That was my goal. If I did, I 
thought I would win. 
"I was not afraid of Tegla. I 
was not intimidated by her or 
anyone else." 
At one point, Loroupe 

The Observer is lool~ing for some­one who .is sl~illed at programming and scripting for the Mac to assist in the development of the Observer's website. This is a paid position. 
If interested please contact Jenn at 271-9145, or leave a note in the Web Administrator mailbox at the Observer Offices (basement of South Dining Hall) 
down." 
Defending champion Franziska Moser-Rochat of Switzerland, who has been hampered by two stress frac­tures this year, finished fifth at 2:32:37. 
Perhaps the most heart­warming story was that of Joan Benoit Samuelson. 
Winner of the first women's Olympic marathon in 1984, the 4·1-year-old was attempt­ing to qualify for the 2000 U.S. Olympic trials. 
Samuelson reached her goal, breaking 2:50. Her time of 
2:41:06 made her the second American finisher -12th overall -behind Libbie Hickman of Fort Collins, Colo., who was sixth aT 2:33:06, a career best. 
The leading American man 
was  Alfredo  Vigueras  of  
Woodland,  Calif.,  18th  at  
2:16:14.  

Last year, Kagwe, wearing new running shoes, had to stop twice to tie his laces and ran the final three miles with loose laces flapping against his legs. 
But he had a huge lead over Chebet and the shoelaces made no difference in the out­come, only that he possibly could have broken the course record. 
His time in 1997 was 
2:08:12 -11 seconds off the course mark of 2:08:01 by Tanzania's Juma Ikangaa in 1989. 
On Sunday, he dueled with Chebet and Bayo. Bayo dropped out of contention shortly after they entered Central Park for the final stretch, leaving the two Kenyans to duel. 
The closest finish in the his­tory of the race was two sec­onds, in 1994 when Mexico's German Silva rallied after making a wrong turn and beat countryman Benjamin Paredes. 
"I decided to push the pace, especially in the last 400 meters," Kagwe said. "I decid­ed to go and see if Chebet would stay with me." 
It was another frustrating second-place finish for Chebet, who also was the Boston Marathon runner-up in April. 
"I may have to change my tactics and train differently for a close, tough finish," Chebet said. 
"I lost in the last 100 meters. I'll sit down with my ·coach and plan something. It's hard to take second-place fin­
ishes so often," he said. 

The jubilant Fiacconi, whose 
time was an Italian record, 
gave the thumbs-up sign twice 
shortly before the end. She 
then bent and kissed the 
ground after crossing the fin­
ish line. 

Before her last two New 
York races, Fiacconi had run 
marathons within close prox­
imity. 

This time, she refrained, and 
was much fresher. 

"I understood at 30 kilome­
ters [18.6 miles] that I could 
win," Fiacconi said after win­
ning her eighth marathon in 
20 tries. "I decided to pull 
away then." 

Two of the biggest names 
failed to finish. 

Spain's Abel Anton, the 1997 
world champion, dropped out 
before 17 miles. 

And South African Josia 
Thugwane, the 1996 Olympic 
gold medalist, quit before mile 
19. 

It was the second time 
Thugwane had dropped out of 
New York. 

In 1995, he went out after 
22 miles with leg injuries. , 
The weather at the start of 
the 26.2-mile race was perfect 
for marathoners 50 
degrees, 61 percent humidity, 
6 mph wind -as well as spec­
tators, with an estimated 2 
million lining the streets of the 
city's five boroughs. 

Kagwe and Fiacconi each 
collected $50,000 plus bonus 
money for their winning fin­
ishing times. 


~NBA 

Drexler set for work as Cougars coach 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
While NBA players are sidelined by a messy labor dispute, Clyde Drexler is happily at work. 
"I've been informed on everything that has occurred, and I wish them well. I certainly picked a good year in terms of tim­ing," Drexler said Sunday at a preseason Conference USA gathering of coaches and players. 
Drexler said he decided two years ago when he would retire. Then last March, before his NBA sea­son with the Houston Rockets was over, he made a surprise announcement ­he was leaving as a player to coach the University of Houston, his alma mater. 
"I think you have to make decisions and make them quick. I don't think· you nec­essarily wait until the time comes. I think they should be made at least a year ahead of time so you can make the transition and be mentally prepared," Drexler said. 
''I've actually been thinking about what I would do the last 15 years. So it's been an easy transition." 
Of course, Drexler hasn't coached a game yet. And the Cougars were picked for sixth and last place in the National Division of the con­ference in a preseason poll, even if their rookie coach was chosen one of the NBA's 50 greatest players. 
'Tm trying it because it's something I want to do, and so far it's been great," said Drexler, whose roster includes the sons of former NBA stars Moses Malone and George Gervin. 
"It's like you want to give something back and experi­ence the game from all angles, and coaching is the last hurdle for me." 

THANKSGIVING BUS 
to Cleveland area 
I 

Tomorrow, November 3, 1998 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
A11 Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
Monday, November 2, 1998 The Observer~ SPORTS page 15 



WoSoccer 
continued from page 20 
ball and lofted a shot over the head of Wisconsin goalkeeper Briget Schwarting. 
Senior Monica Gerardo struck next when she volleyed in a cross from Anne Makinen for the game-winner at 14:16. 
The Badgers closed the gap when Jennifer Wright scored off her own rebound at 49:56, but Jenny Streiffer and Heft both scored in a 20-second span and the Irish pulled away. Streiffer's left-footed shot deflected in off the crossbar at 65:07 and Heft beat the goalkeeper to through ball and scored at 65:27. 
Heft completed her hat trick at 
80:04 when she scored off a cross from Lindsey Jones and Iris Laneaster closed out the Irish scoring with her first goal of the season just 45 seconds later. 
Shannon Boxx, Jones and Makinen each had two assists in the win.On Sunday, Makinen stole the show, adding a hat trick of her own. 
"Anne proved again that she is as good as anybody," Petrucelli said. "She played a great game. We've asked her recently to step up and take over and I think she's done that." 
She scored on a free kick from 30 yards out at 27:55 and then had another first half goal when she headed in a Jen Grubb cor­ner kick at 37:03. 
She scored her third goal just 40 seconds into the second half when she sprinted down the right sideline, dribbled toward the goal and scored into the upper left corner of the net. 
Heft scored her 25th goal of the season, tying Cindy Daws' single-season record. 
"I didn't even really think about it until everyone started talking about it," Heft said. "It's a great accomplishment to be with Cindy Daws." 
Heft volleyed in a cross from Kara Brown at 87:08. 
"She's had a great season," Petrucelli said. "Everything she has touched has been gold. It's been that kind of season for her. She deserves it. She's done everything right." 
Gerardo scored the game-win­ner less than four minutes into the contest when she headed in a Makinen cross. 
Meotis Erikson had two goals for the Irish, including a blast into the upper left part of the net. 
Practice seems to have paid off for the Irish. 
"We worked a lot individually this week at practice," Heft said. "We did a lot of work on shoot­ing and finishing and I think that got our confidence up in practice and then it was there for the game." 


The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urbn setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have 
participated in the urban plunge. ·· As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past 
have included: 
Albany  New Orleans  Baltimore  Phoenix  
Atlanta  Memphis  Washington  Honolulu  
Brooklyn  Nashville  Los Angelos  Harlem  
Seattle  and many more sites  

As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. There will be THE LAST information session TONIGHT at 9:00 at the CSC 
Not I but the city teaches. -Socrates 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, Contact the Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu/-ck/urbanplunge 
APPLICATION DEADLINE--FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 
Belles~ frosh provide promise in first loss 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The Belles learned Saturday that Danielle Clayton may be a freshman, but she's ready to put on a show. 
In Saint Mary's 147-78 loss to NAIA Division I power­house Transylvania University in its first match of the sea­son, Clayton led the Belles. 
In the 400-meter medley relay, Clayton anchored the crew including Wendy Neumann, Alicia Lesnewskie and Olivia Smith in the come-from-behind win. 
"The last relay was the best race," she said. "I could see ber ahead of me and just pushed ahead." 
Clayton surged ahead in other races as well. She post­ed wins in the 100-meter freestyle and finished second in the 50-meter race, just missing the school record. 
"It was amazing," said Clayton, who hails from Michigan. "It was probably the best meet I've had in a long time." 
Gillespie. 
"It was a strong start for the meet. It provided a lot of momentum for the team. One of the main goals we were trying to work on was team spirit, and there was deiinite­ly a lot of that in the relay ­for the people in the water and out." 
"I was very pleased with the intensity and heart with which we swam," head coach Jini Cook said. 
The intensity and heart may be there, but inexperience may be a problem for the Belles this season. 
Saint Mary's has only one diver, who has not yet com­~-­peted for Saint Mary's. Against Transylvania the absence cost the Belles an automatic 40-point deduction. 
The butterfly position is also one which needs fine-tuning because of swimmers who lack experience. 
"A lot of freshmen are still trying to figure out what's going on, but if you look at the meet, it was not a prob­lem. Some of our key swims 
Clayton was not the only·. came from freshmen," first young one who fared well for the team. 
Alicia Lesneskie, also a member of the 400-meter relay winning team, finished first in the 500-meter freestyle and second in the 1,000-meter freestyle. 
Still, Lesneskie is driven to improve as the season pro­gresses. 
"For this point in time, my times are not bad," she said. ''I'd like to improve." 
Junior co-captain Michelle Samreta chipped in by taking the 200-meter breaststroke. 
The 400-meter medley relay of Samreta, Noreen Gillespie, Ann Yanda and Wendy Neumann finished second behind their teammates. 
"Our relay was a good way to start off the meet," said 
See tomorrow's Obseruer for eHtensiue cross­country couerage. 
year student Gillespie said. 
The Belles' hopes are not dashed, however, as they realize the team is in its early stages. 
"Everyone is becoming more comfortable with com­peting," Lesneskie said. 
Depth has improved as the Belles team has almost dou­bled from the eight who com­posed the team last year. This may be the key to improve last season's losing record. 
"One of the things Jini emphasized a lot [Saturday] was that we were setting the foundation for the rest of the season," Gillespie said. 
"We weren't looking for best times or record-setting swims. We were looking for 100 percent effort. We have until February to produce those record-setting swims." 
Head coach Jini Cook said she foresees a good showing against the tri-meet against the University of Chicago and Lake Forest this weekend and for the rest of the season. 
"We are setting ourselves up for a very fast, record­breaking season," she said. 

8 · 10 pm tickets:$3 this wednesday available now Lafortune Ballroom Lafortune Info Desk 
Monday, November 2, 1998
page 16 The Observer 0 PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Club Presidents' Roundtable Need ideas on how to motivate your club? Want to be a more effective president? Feel the need to network with fellow presidents? Have questions about how University policies affect your club? Join in this roundtable dis­cussion led by the CCC. Refreshments to be provided. 
Monday 0 Notre Dame Room 0 9:00 p.m. 
Prospective Club Meeting 
Club Advisors' Reception 
Advisors of Notre Dame clubs and organiza­tions are invited to attend one of two recep­tions. Information regarding new services and programs will be distributed. Hors d'oeuvres will be served. 
Wed. 11 :30 a.m. e Foster Room 0 Thurs. 5:00 p.m. 
How To Run an Effective Meeting Are your meetings running too long? Do your members do homework instead of pay atten­tion? Need a refresher on Parliamentary Procedure? Come to this presentation to learn how to chair meetings more effectively. 
Wednesday 0 Montgomery Theater 0 10:00 p.m. 

Secretaries' Roundtable 
Have you ever wanted to start your own Notre Dame club? Have an idea for a club but don't know how to go about getting it off the ground? If you answered "yes" to either of these questions, come and join members of the Student Activities Office staff and CCC to learn how to start a new club. 
Tuesday e Montgomery Theater 0 6:00 p.m. 

Treasurer's Roundtable 

Public relations, writing press releases, taking meeting minutes., creating member databas­es, distributing information. These will be some of the topics covered during this open dialogue session which focuses on improving the role of club secretaries. Refreshments will be provided. 
Thursday 0 Notre Dame Room 0 10:15 p.m. 

Computers & Clubs 
Want to know more effective ways to collect dues? Need a new system of handling all the University financial paperwork? Hang out with your fellow treasurers and bookkeepers to learn how to become a more effective treasurer. Bring you questions and an appetite for cookies? 
Tuesday 0 Montgomery Theater 0 10:00 p.m. Have a web page? Want to create mailing lists? Know what a list serv can do for your club? Need a new program for club files? This presentation will provide you with the tools necessary to publicize your club on the web and use a computer more effectively. 
Friday 0 Montgomery Theater 0 5:00 p.m. 


r 
1
I 

Sponsored by the Student Activities Office & the Club Coordination Council 
page 17 

~MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Murphy shines in Blue=Gold scrimmage 


By BILL HART Assistam Sports Editor 
Fighting Irish basketball fans have been waiting since February to find out how the team will carry on without for­ward Pat Garrity, and Friday night those fans got their chance. 
In its first official appearance of the season, shortly after the football team's pep rally, the Notre Dame men's basketball team started off the year with the annual Blue-Gold scrim­mage in the Joyce Center. 
"We've had some break­downs, but they've been decreasing," head coach John MacLeod said about the scrim­mage. "We're making progress. We're moving in the right direction." 
Although the game was limit­ed to two 15-minute halves with no stopping the clock, this year's scrimmage gave the crowd a glimpse of what the upcoming basketball season will hold. The evenness in the two squads was evident by the final score: a 35-35 tie. 
Despite the "oohs" and "aahs" coming from the crowd, coach MacLeod said he thought there were some negatives in the scrimmage. 
"There were a lot of break­downs on offense," he said. "We were real aggressive in the pit and going after one another in the workouts and then we came upstairs and [to the court] and we stopped working so much. We weren't nearly as aggressive, but we did do some good things." 
As in previous years, all eyes were on the new recruits mak­ing their first public appear­ance on the squad. As it turned out, they did not disappoint. 
The scoring leader for both squads this year was highly 
touted freshman recruit Troy Murphy. The 6-foot-10 forward from Morristown, N.J., had 10 points and eight rebounds for the game, leading both teams in the two categories. 
"I think we played pretty well," Murphy said. "We were really taking to it on defense, doing what we could to get open and work together as a team." 
Overall, MacLeod was pleased with the performance of the incoming players. 
"Troy showed some flashes, Harold [Swanagan] and David [Graves] were real aggressive. That's a good sign," he said. 
A pair of returning members rounded out the top scorers for both sides. Senior center Phil Hickey contributed six points and two rebounds while junior forward Todd Palmer scored six points. 
Still, the team was unable to complete the game unscathed. Guards Martin Ingelsby and Jimmy Dillon each went down with leg injuries shortly before the end of the game. 
Ingelsby suffered a bruised knee while Dillon had a sprained ankle. 
"[Inglesby] banged his knee with about three minutes to go in practice," MacLeod said. "It's not a structural thing like a cartilage or ligament tear ... it's just a real sore knee situa­tion." 
Despite the injuries, both players should be healed in time for the start of the team's official preseason, which begins tonight at the Joyce Center. 
"It really felt good to go out there [and] to play in front of the people and get out on the floor," Murphy said. "We've been practicing so long, though, that I think we're real­ly ready to go with the start of the season. " 
You are invited to attend 
A Lecture by 
Interested in writing sports?
Professor Remi Brague 


Contact Kathleen Lopez 
University of Paris 

att-4543 
=<..-_ 
At 4:30 p.m. 
Monday, November 2, 1998 
in the Jacques Maritain Center 
714 Hesburgh Library 
on 

Classes are starting now! 
Worldly Wisdom: Can Nature Still Teach Us Anything? 
Call today to reserve your seat. 
Remi Brague, a former student of the Ecole Normale Superieure, was a research fellow at the CNRS (French national endowment for humanities) from 1976 to 1988. He had a Humboldt fel­lowship for study in Cologne (Germany) in 1987-1988, taught philosophy at the University of 
The next class starts 11/9!
Burgundy (Dijon) from 1988 to 1990, and got a position at the University Paris 1 in 1990. He 
was a visiting professor at Penn State (1979-1980) and at Boston University (1995). He pub­
lished three books on Plato and Aristotle and later enlarged his field of interest to Hebrew and 
Arabic. At present he teaches medieval, and mainly Arabic philosophy, at the University Paris I. 
He is interested in a philosophical reflection on Western cultural tradition (see Europe, la voie 
romaine, 1992, 1993, 1999) and in the history of man's experience of his presence in the world 
(see La sagesse du monde, 1999 [forthcoming]). He is currently translating philosophical works 
from the Arabic and preparing a book on the theologico-political problem in medieval thought. 
~ 
Int eacter 

1·SOO·KAP·TEST ~ 
Sponsored by the Jacques Maritain Center Mvw.kaplan.com 
'GMAT Is a registered trademark of the Graduate Management Admission Council. 


The Observer/ Kevin Da!um 
Junior forward Andrew Aris speeds by two Mountaineers in Notre Dame's 2-0 shut out Friday. 

continued from page 20 
half we were in the game and had plenty of opportunities." 
The second half began as a dense fog set upon Alumni Field and the Irish attack covered the Mountaineer goal. A change in game plan at the half put the Irish back on track and on the board. Pridmore scored less than 10 minutes into the half on a play that coach Berticelli could not have scripted bet­ter. 
Senior co-captain Matt Johnson set a pass out to the right side for a breaking Pridmore who dribbled to the net and crossed one to the left for the first goal at 36:21 in the second. 
"The first half we knew we were in the middle too much, and we knew we needed to spread the ball out \·vide. We focused on that in the second half. Pridmore gets the ball out wide, shoots and scores in the first ten minutes -it could not have been better," said Johnson. 
The second-half surge also 
particular certainly made a difference in the game." 
Aris followed suit just 15 minutes later when he also sent a ball wide right, this 
time  to  forward  Shane  
Walton.  
Walton  outdribbled  the  

Mountaineer defense en route to the box where he sent one to Ryan Cox who planted one left of Iga for the 2-0 score. 
Though the offense needed a half to work into its game-plan, the defense was on tar­get all night. 
Senior Greg Velho left Alumni Field for the last time with his 26th career shutout on five saves. 
The difference in halves was the Irish came out with a tighter press on the Mountaineers, allowing just three shots and guaranteeing the shutout. 
"The team splayed a great defensive role and we were able to capitalize on a few of our chances," said Velho. 
"There was a good combi~ nation between defense and offense. Our defense had to step up, which we did, and just give our offense enough time to put a few goals on the board," she said. 
For a team that's strength lied in its defense, allowing an average of less than a goal a game, stopping the attack posed less of a problem, especially when the Irish controlled most of the mid­field play throughout the game. 
"The only real attack they had was a counterattack where we would give the ball away in the middle and they'd get a quick counterat­tack," said co-captain Phil Murphy. · 
With thoughts of going out with a bang and what West Virginia attacked with, the Irish wanted nothing more than a shutout. 
"We have three seniors back there [Velho, Murphy and David Cutler]," said Murphy. 
"Before the game we were talking about how nice it 
·would be to go out on a shutout in our last game at home. Everyone stepped it up tonight, we wanted this game badly," he said. 





Big East 
Championship Quarterfinal Nov. 3 7:30pm Alumni Field 
Monday, November 2, 1998 


ly expected after injuring lig­
aments in her right elbow 
Oct. 24. 
The star setter had an MRI 

_c_o_n_t_in_u_e_d_fr_o_m_p_a_g_e_2_0____ done, and it turns out that the and Orangewomen tallied ligaments are torn, not similar numbers of assists, strained. digs and blocks in the match. She will be unable to play "We needed to come back until they grow back, and is after Oral Roberts and get lucky that none of the bone serious about conrerence, so was torn out. Boylan will likc­Syracuse was our first oppor-ly not return until at least the tunity," said Jameyson. "It Big East Championships, to be was a whole team effort." held in Pittsburgh Nov. 21-22, In bad news for the Irish, and may be out until the Boylan will be out longer than NCAA tournament in the seven to 10 clays original-December. 

The Observer/ Jett Hsu 

S_ophomore Jo Jameyson stretches above the net Saturday. Her 20 d1as helped earn coach Debbie Browin her 200th win at Notre Dame. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 


DUBLIN, IRELAND 1999-2000 
INFORMATION MEETING 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 4, 1998 4:45 -5:45 P.M. 102 DEBARTOLO 
Applications Available Application Deadline: December 1, 1998 


Wo:men's Basketball 
Wednesday, Nov. 4th 7:00pm vs. Sweden National Team 



Monday, November 2, 1998 
The Observer 0 TODAY page 19 
.LOOKING THROUGH THE W1ZARD OF ND 
HALLOWEEN'S OVER. WELL, !f's VERY 'WHY ARE you STILL co11f0ll.TA'BLE ANP 11-IA"f L/O/J 1 IHWk IT rlAKES
cos-rvAE: A STAIE/VIE/Ill Aao 
~y trJDIVJ!>IJAuTY. 
WEARING 
FOXTROT 

DILBERT 
I MUST WARN '<OU, I'M ONE OF TH05E WOl"\EN WHO LIKE. 
TO CUR.SE. A.T WORK.. 

o/o. # * 
1H£ z1PPeR 1s HELP !'\E' ~ :r HffvEN'f 5/u~k J /SN I r (:;ON€ fa 1H£ BAfH­
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1998 

IT? ROOM IN 1WO DAYS~ 
.,, 
c 
>­


02qq "'0 
II/ 
49Site of Tiberius's villa 50 Obscure stuff 52Release 54Counter­manded 55 Western ravines 56Daggers 57 Overseas assembly 
DOWN 
1 Preserves 2 It's way out of 
town 3 Wrestling duo 4 Scope 5 Jamaica's Ocha 
6 Genes material 7 Isolate 8 Recant officially 
9 So 1 o Give a little 
push 11 Ticker tale? 12 Vital engine 
conduit 13 Left over 14 Steps fancily 21 "Huh?" 24 VJ.P. from 
Araby 25 Wrecks 21 Theatrical 28 Points at the 
dinner table 30 "Heavens to Betsy!" 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
,; 
c 

-~ A.. 
, 
u. ~ 
~ 
c 
"' 
O> 
"' 
~ 
Q 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: k.d. lang, Stefanie Powers, Burt Lancaster, Ann Rutherford 
Happy Birthday: You will continue to experience great changes in your life and should prepare yourself to accept all that is going on around you. Although you may feel somewhat uneasy al first, rcan assure you that the end result wi II be to your benefit. Learn to accept the inevitable and you will find it so much easier to master and conquer all that you set out to do. Your numbers: 9, 15, 24, 27, 33, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your intentions will turn toward money­
making ventures. Your ability to deal with business associates will enhance your reputation. Take care of the problems older members of your family lace. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Combine business and pleasure while traveling. Communicate with both business and emotional partners. Make sure that they understand your intentions. You can easily acquire additional knowledge. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can m.oke financial gains. Deal with institutional environments, govern­ment agencies or employers today. Be sccrctin:' about your intentions. Trav­el as little as possible. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will find that romance will surround you today. Opportunities for nc\.v and exciting co1mections will take place ii you get involved in an interesting 
BILL AMEND 
SCOTT ADAMS 
organization. 00 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stick to creative endeavors for best results today. Be careful not to reveal any secret information. Your emotions
M'( t.AR5 

may be unstable due to uncertainties. Concentrate on doing a good job.
rE.LL OFF!! 
00000 
\!/ 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Busi­
ness or pleasure trips will be success­
ful for you. You will meet a new client 
that could turn into a potential lover. 
You can gain a lot of knowledge just 
by observing. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a 
long, hard look at your financial situ­
ation. Make plans to budget. Legal 
matters may be resolved; however, 
you may have to compromise. Don't 
spend money that you don't have. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Social events will be conducive to 
heightening relationships. You will be 
entertaining and will attract potential 
partners. Choose carefully, as some­
one may be viewing you from afar. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Matters relating to work may be con­
fusing at first. Sit back and evaluate 
your situation and discuss your con­
cerns with superiors. Be careful not to 
get a chill, as your resistance will be 
low.00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can help children with projects that are giving them difficulties. Take some time to do the hobbies you enjoy in order to relax. Sports and physical fitness will be beneficial. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Financial gains can be made through property investments, insurance sur­renders and tax rebates. Your home environment will be active and unex­pected guests will gi,•e you good ideas for redecorating. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your ability to deal with the public will help you in achieving your profes­sional goals. Pleasure trips or getting together with friends will initiate pas­sionate encounters. 000 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Holds back 
8Watery 15 Do tests on 16 Africa's --
Faso 17 Port sight 18 They're not as 
big as jars 19 Gilmore of 
basketball 20 Grave 22 ---di-dah 23 Cynic's retort 24 Reproductive 
body 25 She played Gilda in "Gilda" 26 Peeples of "Fame" 27 It may be dirty 
28 Chief Justice after Marshall 29 "Ditto" 31 Dries up 32 Refuse help 34 Kvetch a lot 37 Daytime TV offering 41 Like Miss Muffet's fare 
42 Saavedra -­(1936 Peace Nobelist) 
43 In vitro items 44 Pouch holders, 
for short 45 "V" villain 46 No 
stay-at-home 47 Certain photo order: Abbr. 48 Palm leaf 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
,__,__~~._,-.,--.,--,.,.-r-=-i '-'-'-1-'-'-!-'.-J-::--l'>~t-=-+'-'-+'-'-+"'"+Ec:.... 
f..::'..~FF~!-..::'...FF+=-P"'l-::-t=c+.::-F.+.=-L 
i--;i--;i--;1--1 

t-:-t=t-:-t:-:-t:-:-;.,,.r=:--1=+=-+L=-E T f-'.=-~~E;+:R=--T A L E L..::c.J..::...i-"'R'-'-'-S S T E R 

Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
31 "--of the Year" 
33 One losing power, perhaps 
34 Puts on for a certain audience 
35 Hut style 36 Surgical specialty 38 Notoriously malodorous birds 39 Manage 
40 Least confident 42 Big name in insurance 45 French traffic order 46 British pens 
48 Big bash 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75C per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 



Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
49 Shoe impression. 
maybe 

51 Former world chess champion from Russia 
53 "Smoking or 
--?" 

COME JJ~l\JD E LUNCH WITl-1 MENIBERS F' ,YOUR COLLE E 
J\cademic Pride Week will be held November 3-6 from 12 p.m. to I p.m. each day in the I lospitality room next to Reckers. Each session will be an informal one so reel free to come and ask the Deans and Assistant Deans any questions you may have. All arc \Velcome so we hope to see you there!! Sponsored by your Student Government. 
November 3 College or Arts and Letters November 4 College of Business AdministraliLlll November 5 First Year of Studies November 6 College of Science, Engineering, and Architecture 
-..... ...
*'JI.·.­
-·-.. 

f!a Men's basketball 
IBl Minnesota drops its

~Saint Mary's fresh­
gears up for the 1998 
first game of the sea­

men swimmers provid­
season at the Blue­
son, losing 27-24 to

ed leadership despite 
Gold scrimmage. 
Tampa Bay.

the team's weekend 
loss. 
p.17 
p.15 
THE 

·page 20 0 BSERVER Monday, November 2, 1998 
!i1 WOMEN'S SOCCER 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
A<sisrant Sports Editor 
The fifth-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team closed out the regular season with a four­game winning streak. defeating Wisconsin and conference oppo­nent Svracuse this 'veekend. 
"\l\'e. played very well," said head coach Chris Petrucelli, whose team finished with a 16­2-1 overall record and a 9-1-1 conference mark. "We played as well as we have all year long." 
The Irish posted an impres­sive 6-1 victory over the Badgers on Friday and followed it up with a 7-0 shutout of the Orangewomen on Sunday. 
"It's not just winning the games, it's the way we won," Petrucelli said. "It was huge for our confidence. There have been times over the last few weeks when vve have ques­tioned ourselves a little bit and I think we feel a lot better about ourselves right now, even more than we did heading into the game on Friday." 
Scoring was at a premium for 
~ VOLLEYBALL 
Netters earn Brown 200th ND win 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sporrs W rirer 
The Irish volleyball team 
beat the Syracuse 
Orangewomen Saturday in 
four games to give coach 
Debbie Brown her 200th win 
at Notre Dame. 
"It's really not significant to me," said Brown of the mile­stone victory. "It's significant for me for this team that we won that match tonight." 
Sophomore Jo Jameyson had 20 digs playing outside hitter in place of Marcie Bomhack to lead the Irish (10-11, 6-1 in the Big East) to the win. 
"! think they [Jameyson and Bomhack] continue to push each other and are competi­tive on a daily basis," said Brown. 
Sophomore Christi Girton had 15 digs in addition to her team-high 15 kills, while freshman Kristy Kreher had the best hitting percentage of the match at .389. 
Sophomore setter Michelle Graham had 44 assists as she continued to replace Denise Boylan. 
The Irish looked solid in game one, as the·y hit .385 with only three errors to win 15-8. 
Although Notre Dame domi­nated game two 15-4, they did so on only .114 hitting due to only nine kills. Syracuse helped the Irish out by record­ing eight errors in the game. 
"I think that we definitely lacked in intensity," said Brown. "Even game two, we won really easily, but there were a lot of errors and I 

. • . · • The Observer/ John Daily 
~hnst1 Girton attempts to spike over a competitor. Girton producea 15 digs along with a team-high 15 kills against Syracuse on Saturday. 
~hink we were kind of lulled Orangewomen, with the Irish mto a false sense of security." coming from behind to. edge 
Syracuse came back in game Syracuse 16-14. Girton served three to put clown the Irish up the final points for the 15-7. Junior ~achel Watson Irish, with Kreher scoring the had 23 digs for the match-winner. Ora.ngewomen, while. senior Both teams had high num­Ken Potts added 16 digs and hers of errors to lower their 12 kills. hitting percentages. The Irish 
Game four went back and forth between the Irish and see V-BALL I page 18 
ll MEN's Soccrn 

Notre Dame claims weekend victories 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The seventh-place Irish ended their regular season :ijlatched up against a West Virginia squad that is just one place below them in the Big East. 
But coach Mike Berticelli's team convinced them all that it is playing at a much higher level. 
"We know that we can come out here and play calmly, play simply, and play our game and win," said sophomore Dustin Pridmore after the 2-0 shutout against the Mountaineers. "When we come out and play our game, we're -doing to dominate everyone." 
Pridmore, starting the last 10 games this season, picked up his first collegiate goal in the win as the Irish ended the season at 9-5-3 and 5-4-2 in the Big East. 
The Irish could not have climbed the mountain and peaked at a better time. Last Saturday's 3-0 win at Boston College and this win against the Mountaineers guarantees Notre Dame's seventh place finish in the conference and a quarterfinal pairing with No. 2 St. John's. 
"You always want to go into the Big East tournament coming off of a win," said Berticelli. "Certainly you don't tjoubt yourself then, you go in with confidence as we should. We've been play­
ing pretty well the last cou­
ple of weeks of the season." 
For a team that's just hit­
ting its stride, the Irish start­
ed Friday night's contest at 
less than full speed. They 
recorded just six scoring 
attempts to West Virginia's 
eight in the first half in what 
was clearly a defensive bat­
tle. 
Carlos Iga didn't face much pressure in goal from the Irish attack in that half as West Virginia stopped much of the Irish play that pene­trated the front-line. Few of the chances that Notre Dame did manage in the first stan­za were on quality passing drives. ­
"I think in the first half we played very very well, we just didn't create real good quali­ty scoring chances and I think we were a little impa­tient," said Berticelli. 
Much of the Irish play in that half relied on working the ball quickly up the mid­dle to the net, a tactic the Mountaineer defense responded to with ease. The half ended with the Irish unsuccessful at forcing quick goals. 
"We were just trying to play a little too direct," said Pridmore. "We weren't play­ing simple. Then in the sec­ond half we calmed down and started playing more to our game and it showed. For the majority of the second 
see M. SOCCER I page 18 


the Irish and the two wins serve as a confidence boost heading into tomorrow night's Big East championship quarterfinal game with West Virginia. 
"We played really well as a team and I think these games were really big for our confi­dence," junior forward Jenny Heft said. "We haven't been scoring goals and we had a lot of goals this weekend. We had a great week of practice and this weekend, I think we really peaked. It's a good time for it with the tournament starting this week." 
Heft was spectacular this weekend, as she has been all season for the Irish.Against "Wisconsin, Heft recorded her fifth career hat trick, tying for­mer Irish forward Rosella Gurerro's record. She also matched Cindy Daws' mark of three hat tricks in a single sea­son. 
She opened the scoring for the Irish at 8:23 when she beat a VVisconsin defender to a through 
see W. SOCCER I page 15 


·-, at Boston College, at Boston College, 
~· 
Saturday, 2 p.m. ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 
·-·---~ 
~I 
SMC Swimming at University of Chicago, 
Saturday, TBA 

at Big East Quarterfinals, vs. Georgetown Tomorrow, TBA Friday, 7 p.m. 

O THE 
page 1 

Monday, November 2, 1998 BSERVER 

The Obseiver/Jett Hsu 

Tailback Autry Denson sails over Baylor's defensive unit giving Notre Dame its first score of the game. He went on to set a personal best of 189 yards on 24 carries. 

~ 

ID 
th 


By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Editor 
For Baylor head coach Dave Roberts, Saturday's game was a measuring stick. 
It was a chance to see his accomplish­ments from the past and his current project go head-to-head. 
Unfortunately, he didn't like the results he saw. 
All"Roberts could do was watch his former offense dominate Baylor, 27-3. The Irish gained 462 yards on offense compared to a measly 172 for the Bears. 
"We had very few opportunities," Roberts said. "We didn't run the ball well and when you can't run, you are not going to win." 
Notre Dame had no problems with its ground attack, amassing 329 yards on 50 carries. Baylor gained 33 yards rush­ing for the entire contest on 38 carries. 
Autry Denson, who Roberts enticed to come here, ran away with a new per­sonal best. His 189 yards bettered his mark of 162 which he set against Michigan in the season opener. By the end of the first quarter alone, he had already chalked up 7 4 yards on seven carries. 
''I'm happy for them," Roberts said. "You want guys to do well. You just want your guys to do better. It was just a matter of being able to execute, and we weren't able to do that today." 
The first quarter remained rather quiet for the Irish with kicker Jim Sanson nailing a 32-yard field goal to give Notre Dame its first points of the game. 
The secoi:id quarter provided a whole different story as Denson capped a drive with a two-yard dive for the end zone. 
Not to be outdone by Denson and the ground attack, Jarious Jackson got heat­ed up in the second. He capped a drive by lofting a high pass in the right corner of the endzone to wide receiver Malcolm Johnson. The 6-foot-5 Johnson used his height and reach advantage to give Notre Dame its second touchdown of the quarter, boosting the lead to 14. 
"I thought that might have been the drive of the game," Davie said of the drive ieading to Johnson's touchdown. "We had squandered way some o'ppor­tunities in the first half, yet we came back at the end of the first half and got that big score. And so we were able to stay on rythmn at halftime and that was critical." 
Bobby Brown's 66-yard touchdown reception added an exclamation mark to Notre Dame's lead. 
"I think this was a good win for us," Davie said. "I think we all agree that we didn't play as well as we could but we played well enough to win which seems to be a trademark of this team." 
Davie and his coaching staff get kudos for the game. At the midpoint in the sea­son, they could have fallen into a mid­season slump and stayed with the same calls. Instead the Irish came out with new formations and showed they aren't going to rely on the same calls game­after-game. Lining up Mike Gandy at fullback and bringing in Tony Fisher early in the game show that Davie and Co. are trying their best to find the win­ning combination. 
The Irish only registered a fevv mis­takes in Saturday's win. Denson's fum­ble of the option pitch on the opening 
drive was the third fumble of his career on 738 carries. 
Denson's interception on a botched play call perhaps could be considered a key play of the game. In the second quarter, Denson took the pitch from Jackson and turned to throw back to him. Baylor's Baxter intercepted and returned it 59 yards before Denson made the touchdown saving tackle. The defense went on to hold the Bears to a field goal. 
Another concern for the Irish is spe­cial teams could not get anything start­ed. The longest return of the day was Tony Driver's kickoff returri in the sec­ond quarter for 16 yards. 
"At some point, we need a big return from our special teams," Davie said. "We can't keep asking our offense to score on long drives. For the amount of time we spend on the return.game, vve are not getting the productivity we expect." 
The greatest concern for the Irish right now rests with the status of back­up quarterback Arnez Battle. Battle 
see GAME I page 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME  Q!JOTE OF THE GAME  STAT OF THE GAME  
Autry Denson once again takes the prize with his 189-yard career best perfor­mance against the Bears. Not to mention he cleans up his own mess by chasing  "Those wristbands drive me nuts because I can't figure out what number it is.. We've never had that many numbers and I don't see very well." [On the ill-advised halfback pass.]  The Irish offensive line held a Baylor defense with 18 sacks in the previous seven games sackless, and allowed only two tack­les· for losses.  
down Baylor's Gary Baxter and saving the touchdown.  -Offensive coordinator Jim Colletto  

page 2 The Observer. IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 2, 1998 

By ALLISON KRILLA Associate Sports Editor 

It 'vVas the stuff of whicli. leg­ends are made -a blue, gray October sky and the echoes of the great Knute Rockne filling the Halloween night air. As they had 73 years ago, the Bears and their raucous Waco following stormed into South Bend. 
The hungry Bears, driven to the brink of despair by the recent poundings from Longhorns and Aggies, sought redemption. 
And they managed to stay with the Fighting Irish through the first 20 minutes of play, scratching and cla\ving on offense behind Derek Lagway, Jermaine Alfred and Odell James, ;vhile relying heavily on the strength of punter Mike Atteberry to pin Notre Dame deep in its own territory. 
But what these Bears forgot was that the entire Stadium is Notre Dame territory. 
Maybe they saw the innocent­looking schoolgirls, the Sesame Street characters or the life­sized pieces of fruit and chuck­led to themselves while the 

Green and Gold crowd erupted. The Observer/Bret Hogan 
Receiver Malcolm Johnson beats the Baylor coverage, giving the Irish their second touchdown of the game.
Or perhaps they just smiled at the marshmallows and the tenacled frisbee, thinking about fans all year for standing brick by brick, game by game. turns to reveal November, the what a treat it would be to cele­
behind a group famous for don­After all, the team has done road becomes more treacher­brate victory No. 3 in the glow ning a magician's cape and hat, what it takes to win six of seven ous, and the fair-weather fans of the stadium lights. and performing seemingly games this year. are unmasked. 
But this eve of all hallows impossible feats of victory. Some people call it luck, some This November brings three turned out to be quite a trick Saturday was no exception, call it skill and some still of four games away from the instead, as the Bears failed to as Autry Denson took his turn believe another team is mas­familiarity of Notre Dame notice the superheroes, "cere­wielding the magic wand. querading as the Notre Dame Stadium, where even the new al" killers and big, blue mon­Involved with every Irish football team, but nonetheless, seats ring of legends past. This sters cheering the Irish, too. turnover, the tc;i,ilback also pro­the Irish simply keep on win­can mean only one thing for the 
It was precisely this spirit ceeded to rush for a career­ning. And a wjnning college fans -it's time to shake off the that drove the Bears deeper high 189 yards, with only 21 football team relies heavily on cobwebs of October evenings into the woods and carried the yards in the second half. supportive fans, especially its .and prevent another sort of dis­Irish to their eighth-consecutive And the costumed revelers peers -the people with whom appearing act from occurring. win beneath the Golden Dome. stood by with patience and the players live and work and This is the stuff from which 
Bob Davie has praised the pride, continuing to bu,.ild the study. " legends are made -keep the 
trademark Notre Dame spirit Now as the calendar-page spirits of 1998 alive. 

· Davie said. "Realistically, this is about as good as_ we could have expected
Game 
going into the season. November is a critical month in the college football.

continued from page 1 
After the game, we told the team to remember what you do in November.

came out in the fourth quarter with 
We have four games left -three on thesprained right shoulder and is expected road -so we are going to have to countto be out for two to four weeks. Junior on everybody."

Eric Chappell will assume the backup "We need productivity on both sides of duties with Hunter Smith stepping into the ball. In November, I want a rested,the third string role. 
confident team that keeps improving.

Davie reiterated the fact that the team 
The reason we lifted and trained so

plays good enough to win but it still has 
hard during the of'fseason was for

not shown its full capability. To him and November."
his squad, the month of November is The games which lie on the horizon
key. Last year, they turned around its for Notre Dame are not easy. Threeseason winning all its matchups in the road games against bitter rivals can tiremonth. He hopes to keep that tradition a team quickly but Davie and Co. believealive. 
their off-season training has been for"Being 6-1 going into November is this exact reason, November.

something that we are pleased with," 
Monday, November 2, 1998 The Observer 0 IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Denson sends Bears into hibernation, fans to jubliation 
ByJOEY CAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
Autry Denson 's best maneu­vering came after the game as he danced around the horde of television cameras, bright lights and reporters that surrounded him. 
After Notre Dame's destruc­tion of Baylor, 27-3, Denson found his way through the post­game celebration and media cir­cus until he reached the Notre Dame student section, where fans chanted his name. Denson poised for a picture in the first row of the student section with a friend who was celebrating her birthday. 
"Because I'm a senior, every game is meaningful," Denson said downplaying the signifi­cance of his 189 yards on the ground. "It's just a matter of going out and savoring every­thing that I have." 
The student section seemed to be savoring every Denson moment as well, as the cheers grew louder until he scrambled into the locker room to join his teammates, who are now 6-1. 
"It makes you l'eel good," Denson said in the post-game press conference. "But people love you when you're doing well and they don't when you're not. You try to keep it all in perspec­tive." 
Defenses have placed a target on No. 23 in recent weeks as he had to earn every one of his yards in wins over Stanford, Arizona State, and Army. But Denson exploded behind great offensive line play Saturday and averaged nearly eight yards a carry. 
"I think the credit should go to the offensive line and my full­backs," Denson said. "They did a great job all day. My job was easy I just had to run." 
"Everybody knows Autry is a great running back," Jarious Jackson said. "He is a big part of the offense and makes the offense go." 
The Baylor defense must have 
thought they were in the Old 
West as the draw killed them all 
afternoon. The Irish took advan­
tage of the Bears attacking 
defense by running draws to 
Denson, his specialty. 
"Autry Denson is really a good 
draw runner," head coach Bob 
Davie said. "That's really 
Autry's game." 
After Denson tromped all over 
the Bears in the first half with 
168 yards, Baylor head coach 
Dave Roberts probably wished 
he could have suited up NFL 
Hall of Fame linebacker and 
Baylor alum Mike Singletary to 
Mark Denson. 
But Baylor safeties Nikia Codie 
and Rodney Smith had to do the 
unenviable job of tracking down 
and tackling the elusive Denson. 
"I-le picks his holes and uses 
his blocks from his line," Codie 
said. "Once in the open field he's 
hard to tackle." 
Roberts also probably wished 
he hadn't recruited Denson to 
come to Notre Dame as Roberts 
saw Denson streak into the Bear 
secondary and he saw his team 
fall to 2-6. 
"You always want to see peo­
ple you recruited do well," 
Roberts said. "You just want to 
see your team do better." 
On Saturday no one was better 
than Denson, as he came within 
17 4 yards of Allen Pinke ti's all­
time Irish mark of4,131. But 
don't tell Denson that. 
"If I let things like that enter into my focus right now it will affect my game," Denson said. "I don't go out and run against numbers I have a hard time competing against numbers. I just wanted to go out and do whatever I could do to help the team." 
Although Denson appeared to 
be Superman shrugging off tack­
lers and always striving to gain 
that extra inch, he proved that 
he was human as he had two 
fumbles and even threw an 
interception. · 
Denson 'also flashed his grit as . he tracked down Baylor's Gary Baxter inside the 10-yard line 

. . . 
Tailback Autry Denson rushed for 189 yards, beating his personal best set earlier against Michigan. 
giving his defense a chance to hold the Bears to a field goal. 
"Anytime you can make them put the ball down again there'.s a chance you can play sudden change defense," Davie said. "That's why I wanted to keep him on defense four years ago." 
'Tm sure he knew he would have gotten chewed out if he wouldn't have made that tack­le," Jackson said. "But you can't blame Autry. I take all the blame for that because I called the wrong play." 
"I think our team is happy I'm not a quarterback," Denson said, referring to his ill-advised throw on a halfback pass in the second quarter. 'Tm glad they switched me when I was in high 
Scoring  1st  
Notre Dame  3  
Baylor  0  
Team Statistics  ND  
First Downs  21  
Rushed-Yards  329  
Passing-Yards  133  
Sacked-Yard Lost  5-41  
Passes  11-5-1  
Punts  3-151  
Fumbles-Lost  2-1  
Penalties-Yards  6-76  
Time of Possession  29:38  

Individual Statistics Rushing 

school. I don't think quarter­backingwas my calling." 
Irish fans are certainly pleased they switched Denson to tailback and there isn't much doubt about what his calling is. 
"I think he'll have a great career after Notre Dame and I'm happy for him," Roberts said. 
Said Codie, "He is going to make it a long way." 
But just like Allen Pinkett and 4,132, Denson isn't thinking about anything except what's directly ahead of him and his team. 
"Right now we have four more games and I'm trying to win those games first," Denson said. "A lot of making it is a lot of luck. You have to stay healthy and get picked up by someone. I'm a senior and I'm just enjoy­ing every bit of this." 
Denson seemed to be more concerned with his fumbles. 
"I was always taught that it's a lack of courage the reason you fumble so I guess it was a lack of courage that I let the ball go," Denson said. 
But perhaps Sergeant Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State police said it best. with his Halloween message warning about the dangers of drunk dri­ving. 
"You don't have a ghost of a chance if you don't have the right spirit," he said . 
The right spirit is certainly instilled in No. 23. 

2nd 3rd 4th Final 14 7 3 27 3 0 0 3 
BU 16 33 139 0-0 30-18-0 7-299 

0-0 v
9-84 30:22 
s 


ND-Denson 24-189, Jackson 6-66, Spencer 5-28, Goodspeed 4-13, Battle 2-6, Givens 1-6, Driver 1-2 BU-Bree.s 11-59, Crabtree 16-51, Johnson 6-36 
Passing ND-Jackson 9-5-0-133 BU-Alfred 19-10-0-81, Odell 6-5-0-27, Odum 5-3-0-31 
·Receiving ND-Brown 2-73, Johnson M. 2-31, Johnson J. 1-29 BU-Lagway 8-44, Simpkins 2-38, Thompson 2-26, Obriotti 1-11, 
Fuller 1-8, Bush 1-5, Anderson 1-3, Barnett 1-2, Burkins 1-2 

Monday, November 2, 1998

The Observer 0 IRISH INSIDER 

NOTRE DAME 27 
BAYLOR 
3 

NOTRE DAME STADIUM OCTOBER 31, 1998 
Photos by John Daily, Bret Hogan and Jeff Hsu 















