• The Campus Life Council votes to investigate cam­• Student loan default rates drop to an all-time low. 
Tuesday

pus opportunities to earn credit for extracurricular activities. 
OCTOBER27,

News • 3 
World & Nation • 5 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 41 
Students help Kids Corp. spread hope 
Recruiters visit ND, SMC campuses 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
StudPnts struggling within tlw h!Pak NPwark. N.J.. school sysll'lll may now lind a glim­rnPr ol' hope~ with an organiza­tion calll'd Kids Corporation and tlH• hPlp ol' sonw Notrn llanw and Saint Mary's stu­dPnts. 
llall' ol' Nnwark ninth­gradnrs drop out bnforn com­plt~ting high school, and, in I1J1J4, 20 of :~X schools tostnd Nnwark children, is trying to had no stuc!Pnts that could change all that. pass basie proficiency tests. "The1y're not given a fair But Kids Corporation. a non­chance from the start," said prol'il group that provides Kids Corporation recruiting c~ducational opportunities for director Brian Klausner of the 


THERE CAN BE ONLY ONE 
Fall break capital visit enthuses SMC students 
By RUT! I SNELL 
News Writer 
llPmocrals. rnpublicans, and impnac.hnwnt. oh my! 
On tlw first Monday of fall brt•ak, a group of Saint Mary's studPnts Pmbarknd on a uniquP nducational tour of the nation's capital. Tho l'ivP-day visit to Washington D.C., coor­dinated by ClaudP HPnshaw, a Saint Mary's businnss profes­sor, was an opportunity many studemts c:hosn not to pass up. 
" I had n n v n r IH~ e n to Washington and always want­ed to go," said .lannt Horvath, a junior businnss major. "Aftnr my first trip, I can't imagine seeing the city any other way." 
Students on the trip visited 
program's participants. "We provide resources to the kids to get them an equal opportu­nity. If they had the proper education, they could be as successful as anyone, but our society lets them fall by the wayside." 
The program consists of a combination of a five-subject curriculum in the classrooms of 10 local schools and field trip or camp activities, according to Gwenyth Murray-Nolan, a four year volunteer and last summer's camp director. The program is run by college students who live at the camp as well as teachers, she said. 
Klausner pointed out that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are the educational institu­tions with the greatest repre­sentation among participants, numbering 14 of 120 total stu­dents last year. 
"The majority of the stafl' is from Newark. and they com­mute, but the college kids live at camp. Each classroom has a certified teacher, mostly from the local Catholic schools, and two college stu­dents," she said, noting that staff members who work in the schools are provided with daily transportation to Newark, a little more than an hour away. 
Jennifer Wejman, a Saint Mary's senior who worked in one of the schools during last summer's program, taught math to first through fifth graders. 
"We were divided into dif­ferent academic areas, includ­ing math, social studies, sci­ence, reading and Newark history," she explained. "The goal [of the program] is not for them to be way ahead. but just to maintain their skills ... It was so they would be up to par for the next grade." 
see KIDS I page 4 

WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

New D-6 
will open very soon 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editar 
A new parking lot adjaePnt to tlw D-6 lot on tlw south end of eampus will open for student usn as soon as next wonk, aeeording to Notre Dame's fa e i I itins enginn~~ ring department. 
All students registered to park in the existing D-2 and D-6 lots will be•. allowml to park in the new area. 
The lot will be open for use as soon as contractors apply a final surface layer of asphalt and paint parking stripes. Once weathnr pnr­mits these tasks' completion, the I>­6 extension will open. adding 4HO parking spaces on the south end of campus to supplement the HOO exist­ing spots. 
South Quad juniors and sopho­mores who were forced to park in the D-2 lot on the northeast end of campus will be allowed to park in the new area, and no new parking stickers will be required, according to assistant director of Security/Police Phil Johnson. Studenti displaying D-2 stickers on their automobiles will bn allowed to park in the D-6 extension for the remainder of this academic year. 
"We don't want to have to rnquirn several hundred students to come back to the security building and re­register thnir cars," Johnson said. "It's going to be easinr for students to do it this way." 
The nnw arrangement will restore D-6 parking privilngns to South Quad sophornorns and juniors who have been forced to park in tlw 
see PARKING I page() 
several popular landmarks, including the Holocaust Museum. Ford Theater and the Arlington National Cnnwtnry. Because of contacts HPnshaw has in D.C., many through Saint Mary's College graduates, the group was able to tour areas of many govern­ment buildings which are oth­nrwisn inaccnssibln to the gen­eral public. 
In addition to the usual tourist stops, the group was able to vinw wings of the F131 building which are usually designated "ofT-limits" to visi­tors, and a member of Indiana Senator Ben Coates' staff per­sonally guided the students through the Capitol Building 
see CAPITAL I page 6 

page 2 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Riddle Me This 
Scenario: I was in NOH last night, contem­plating my food choice as usual, when it struck me. I was pacing by the first little food vestibule-you know, the one with the burg­ers, fries, and assorted heart-attacks drowned in grease. I didn't find anything there that I wanted to eat, so I moved on. I had just entered the 
Robert Pazornik second food sanctum, 
Copy Editor 
bypassing the lunch meats and pretty lady with the hairnet, and I stepped up to the plate; I reviewed my choices: some kind of strange beef, some kind of strange starch-by­product and the token fish du jour. 
So I'm looking at the fish, and I'm thinking to myself, where have I seen this before? And that, my friends, is when it actually struck me: This fish-and every other fish from days and weeks and months before -is actually (get this) THE SAME FISH ! 
Think about it. When have you ever seen anybody eating fish in the dining hall? Never. No one trusts the dining hall to cook cold cereal, let alone a fish. And what does the fish look like every single night? That's right -it's always that taupe, off-white shade with the flaky yet steak-like consistency. And nearly every night, the fish of the day is a saltwater fish. Now that's odd, because, we're in freakin' South Bend, Ind. The closest body of saltwater is exactly seven jillion miles away. You're telling me that the administra­tion is willing to fork out thousands of dollars to ship gourmet seafood from the beautiful coast of California so I can enjoy a smorgas­bord more completely representative of the American cuisine? Is this the same adminis­tration that's trying to trick me into the shady three-card-monty exchange of two flex-dol­lars a day for seven of my weekly all-you­can-eat meals? I don't think so. 
And, furthermore, how do the dining Nazis come up with these appetizing names? Have you ever noticed that the name of the fish is usually composed of three parts? For exam­ple: Grilled Atlantic Cod, Sauteed White Grouper, etc. My theory here is that our friends in food services get together every night and spin the old "wheel o' fish." They're hiding it in the back room, some­where bewteen the loading dock and the grain elevator, my sources confirm. They spin the wheel in three parts: 1) to see how the fish will be supposedly prepared, 2) to see where the fish is supposedly from and/or a descriptive adjective of the supposed fish and 
3) to determine the supposed species of the supposed fish that doesn't even exist in the first damn place. 
So riddle me this: for how much longer will we the students stand for this? As we speak, dedicated members of PSA are covering our campus with sidewalk chalk to organize a "Save the Fish" rally, and Right Reason edi­tors are busy preparing lengthy diatribes condemning the fish to hell for its sexual preference. But I will stand for this outra­geous beguiling no more. 
Tomorrow, after the attractive women swipe my card, and after I pass the nice lady with the hairnet and the lunch meats, I'm going to march right up to the dining hall director with the obnoxious Radio Shack headset, look him right in his cold, black eyes and ... do absolutely nothing ... because there's no line for the stir fry, and they finally have that mandarin sauce I like so much, and because I don't even really like fish anyway. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TooAv's STAFF 
News Graphics 
Derek Betcher Scott Hardy Roberr Pazornik Production Spons Kerry Smith 
Kathleen O'Brien Lab Tech Viewpoint Brett Hogan Eduardo Llull 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcep{ during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associared Press. All rcproducrion righrs are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 27, 1998 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Food Services employee molests sleeping students 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 

Syracuse Police on Saturday charged a Syracuse University Food Services employee with sexually assaulting female students while they slept in their rooms. 
Cedric Holmes, 27, used his employ­ee I.D. card early Saturday morning to access the Brewster/Boland com­plex through the Brockway 
Dining Center loading dock, SU spokesperson Kevin Morrow said. 
"He climbed into bed with several young women and reportedly molest­ed some young women," SU spokesman Kevin Morrow said. "He had a knowledge of the residence hall and knew that some young women left their doors unlocked." 
Holmes is charged with nine counts of second-degree burglary, four counts of first-degree sexual abuse and five counts of first-degree attempted sexual abuse, Syracuse 

"The intruder has a past of entering the dorm, specifically unlocked 
doors," Galvagno said. 
Holmes allegedly entered the com­plex at about 5 a.m. with the inten­tion of locating a female friend, Morrow said. His attempts to locate the friend were unsuccessful and Holmes proceeded to walk throughout Boland Hall breaking into unlocked dorm rooms, Morrow said. Holmes was intoxicated at the time of his alleged entries, Morrow added. 
Karen Chesley, an undecided fresh­man in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications and The College of Arts and Sciences, said Holmes broke into her room and attempted to get into her bed. 
"I woke up when I felt someone starting to get on my bed," said Chesley, a Daily Orange contributing writer. "I looked up and saw someone looming over me." 
Chesley said she "ran to turn on the lights," and asked the man why he was in her room. The man said, "sorry, wrong room," and ran out, she said. 
Following Public Safety's arrival, the Brewster/Boland complex was closed and a room-by-room search was conducted, he said. 
Police later spotted Holmes in a parking lot east of the Carrier Dome and approached him because he matched the suspect's description. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Crawling, drinking don't mix 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
A fourth-year University student underwent hospital­ization Thursday night after binge drinking to celebrate his 21st birthday. The "Corner Crawl," a night of visiting Corner bars and attempting to consume 21 shots of alco­hol, is popular among University students to commemo­rate their 21st birthdays. Assistant dean of students Aaron Laushway said the student consumed about 18 to 19 shots of alcohol and then passed out at the Biltmore Bar and Grill, located on Elliewood Avenue. A rescue squad responded to the incident and pumped the stu­dent's stomach. University Hospital has since released the student in good condition, said WINA news reporter Rob Graham. The WINA news service reported the inci­dent in a Friday morning broadcast based on information from "an anonymous source at the scene," WINA news director Susan McConnell said. 
• UNIVERSITY SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA Hate crimes continue at USC 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
Two incidents of anti-gay vandalism occurred on cam­pus last week, bringing the total number of 1998 hate crimes at USC up to six, Department of Public Safety offi­cials said. Adam Law, an undeclared sophomore, discov­ered the word "gay" written in four-inch letters with blue marker on the wall outside his single apartment in Fluor Tower Friday morning. Law, an openly gay student, said he discovered the marking when he left his apartment at 9 
a.m. Friday. Law said he did not notice the graffiti when he came home at 3 a.m. Friday. Authorities said the van­dalism occurred during the night. Law reported the crime to DPS, which is now conducting an investigation of the incident. Three days earlier on October 20th, DPS received a report that news articles pertaining to gay and lesbian issues were removed from an office door in the Social Science Building between Oct. 15 and 19, said Bob Taylor, deputy chief of DPS. 
• NORTWESTERN UNIVERSITY Women reinforce the glass ceiling 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
In the battle for equal pay for equal work, women may 
be their own worst enemies. According to a study con­
ducted by John Jost, an assistant professor of organiza­
tional behavior at Stanford University, women would pay 
themselves 18 percent less than men for the same amount 
of work. The results of the 1997 study were not signifi­
cantly different from those obtained from similar studies 
done in the 1960s and '70s. The study was conducted at 
Yale University as part of Jost's doctoral dissertation in 
psychology. Jost asked 132 undergraduates to write an 
essay on shopping by computer. An independent panel 
then read the essays and could not differentiate the essays 
by gender. Jost then asked the writers how much they 
would pay themselves for writing the essay. On average, 
the women cited figures 18 percent lower than those by 
the men. Jost refers to this as "depressed entitlement 
effect." 
• LOUISIAI\IA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Employee drinks, drives, maims 
BATON ROUGE, La. 
A University traffic control officer was sent to the hospi­
tal after being hit by an intoxicated University stall' mem­
ber. Ezell Wright was charged with OWl, first-degree 
vehicular negligent injury and careless operation, accord­
ing to LSUPD Captain Ricky Adams. Wright's vehicle was 
following another on a road adjacent to the football prac­
tice field, he said. ·:rolice determined Wright made an 
attempt to pass the slower-moving vehicle in a curve in 
the road," he said. Wright's vehicle strayed off the road 
and struck the officer, who was standing near the road 
preparing for the football game traflic, Adams said. The 
traffic controller was immediately transported to the hos­
pital, where she was treated for moderate injuries, includ­
ing damaged ribs, he said. Officers met with Wright and 
smelled an unknown alcoholic beverage on him. "lie was 
unable to perform a field sobriety test satisfactorily and 
was placed under arrest," Adams said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Thursday Friday ~;65 
; 


Satqrday. .~57 
~'}"--/-:...~··--..., ..,_,-· ". 


~ 
@ 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Atlanta 79 58 Dallas 73 54 Long Beach 76 56 Baltimore 78 55 Guam 86 67 Los Angeles 77 59
Q,~,~q~Q ~~a 
Baton Rouge 84 64 Huntingn.Bch.46 34 Nantucket?! 85 77
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Compton 68 59 Kaanapali 90 75 Vacaville 70 60
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

----------------------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, October 27, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
fiUSBEE-fl..IPPIN' FALL FUN 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Breen-Phillips sophomore Marita Keane didn't let a broken right arm keep her from tossing a frisbee Monday afternoon with friends. 
A Free National Satellite Teleconference Hosted By The University of Notre Dame For Faculty and Staff 
REACHING YOUR 


FINANCIAL GOALS 
TIPS FROM.AMERICA'S EXPERTS 
With the growing array of investment options and the recent changes in the tax laws, we can all use an update on personal finances. 
Join best-selling author Jane Bryant Quinn, economist Peter Bernstein, and other top experts for a look at state­
of-the-art investment products and strategies. 
Whether you're concerned about saving for retirement, your 
children's college education or a new home, this program will make 
financial decision-making easier. 
Date:  October 28, 1998  
Location:  Center for Continuing Education, Room 100  
(Across the street from the Morris Inn)  
Time:  1:45 pm-3:30 pm  

A TIAA-CREF representative will be available to answer questions following the broadcast. Space is available on a first come basis. 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
CLC considers expanding credit chances 
By FINN PRESSLY News Writer 
The Campus Life Couneil passed a rnsolu­tion last night addn1ssing tlw issuo or grant­ing eollege r.rodit to those who partieipat11 in 11xtracurrir.ular activities that cuJ-rnntly rocoive no credit. 
The •·esolution calls l"m Patrieia O'Hara, Vice President of Student Affairs, to incor­porate the issue of' nxtracurricular accredi­tation into the agenda for the Academie Council. 
"!The Academic Council] would be abln to re-evaluate some of' the extraeurrieular activities that are the perfect setting for tak­ing knowledge we've leamed in class and putting into a 'real world' expericneo," said Tim FitzSimons, chairman of tlw A1:ademic Committee. 
Among the groups currnntly n~ceiving credit are the marehing band, liturgical and folk choirs, chorale, glen elub and those undergraduates who serve as teaching assistants. Meanwhile, students involved in many other activities, such as campus pub­lications, receive no academic credit. 
"There's an inconsistency there that WB're looking at for moro investigation," said par­liamentarian Tim Keller. 
Accrediting those organizations would require an academic advisor to ensure that the groups are mooting the goals necessary for eredit. Keller stressml. however, that the presenee of a supervisor would not under­mine the independent nature or organiza­tions sueh as The Observer. 
"There would be no infringement at all on the independence of these organizations." said Keller. 
The idna of a faculty advisor present on publication boards also raised the question of possible censorship by the University. Keller explained that advisors would be making progress reports, as opposed to con­tent reports. These reports would simply attest to the fact that the publications were, in fact. meeting the goals necessary for credit. 
.Judicial Council President Kelly Folks sug­gested that those seeking credit for campus publications maintain a portfolio for credit. 
"If this resolution were implementiHI, I think it should be a requinmwnt to kncp a portfolio that advisors, whoever they would be. would bn able to see the basis of crmlit," said Folks. 
Ava Preacher, assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. called the f!1so­lution into question. 
"You are asking for oversight, whether you want to or not. We call them extracllr­ricular aetivities. and what you'rn asking is for them to become curricular. That's a heavy duty change," said Preacher. 
"I think it depends on what kind of learn­ing is taking place. If they're learning, I have no problem with granting crndit," said Sr. Carrino Etheridge, metor of' Farley Hall. 
Susan Bobcrts, chairman of the Bylaw Reviews Committee, also qunstioned the resolution. 
"My question is what is the direct positive bmwfit of granting college crndit'? Will it get people more people involved? Would it look better on a college resume? Will it help with getting jobs in the future?" asked Hoberts. "Would it just be easier, then, to grant a special notation on the eollege transcript as opposed to a college credit?" 
"Those arc specifics this resolution isn't calling for. These are specifies that an investigation would clarify," said Father David Sheidlcr, reetor of St. Edward's llall. 
The CLC ultimately voted in favor of' pass­ing the resolution, to whieh Professor O'Hara must respond within the next two weeks. The council also passnd a resolution on social spaee that had been amended at the previous meeting. 



THANK YOU FOR READING THE OBSERVER 
~~-~-~­

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 27, 1998 




Kids 
continued from page 1 
Wejman explained that the students took tests provided by the Newark school system and those provided by Kids Corporation to ensure that the objectives of the program were being met, and noted that all of the children in her school showed improvement on the program tests by the end of the summer. 
"Some people get frustrated, because there's only so much you can do," said Wejman. "You only have the kids from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., and they're in another world from 3 p.m. until 8 a.m. the next day and on weekends." 
But Kids Corporation adminis­trators strive to make the most of the time they share with the children, placing emphasis on out-of-classroom activities, as well as on making learning fun. Field trips to the nature camp, which Murray-Nolan likens to "a huge outdoor classroom." are rewards for attendance in school. 
"If the kids attend school all nine days, on the lOth they go to camp," she explained. 
Nature camp activities, includ­ing physical challenges and a 35-station obstacle course, focus on building self-esteem, said Murray-Nolan. 
"We have a 'you can do it' atti­tude," she said. 
The camp also includes a pet­ting zoo with cows, horses, sheep and goats, as well as a swimming pool. 
Klausner noted that the kids 
reaction to the camp is unique. 
"[They] get so engrossed in the 
littlest things because they have 
never been out of the city," he 
said. 

Notre Dame senior Bridget McMahon, who worked as a camp counselor this past sum­mer, expressed similar feelings. 
"[The kids get excited about] the little things we take for granted. You can spend 15 min­utes watching the ducks," she said. "My group found a turtle, and we spent all day making a terrarium for it and learning about [turtles]." 
While Klausner estimates that 25 to 30 percent of the college workers are education majors, Wejman points out that anyone willing to work with the kids can be a teaching assistant. 

"A lot of people in the program are interested in education, but a lot just wanted to help people,;, she said. 
McMahon believes that the program is very valuable, and a great opportunity for college stu­dents. 
"It's such an awesome pro­gram. I would recommend it to anyone. Each day you help one person, and it makes you feel so good," she said. "When the kids come up to you and hug you and won't let go, you know they need your love and attention. They give you a different approach to life." 

Murray-Nolan also holds the program in high esteem. 
"The community living is the best and worst aspect of it. It's fun -you're with a new group and you make friends, but there's a huge focus on multicul­turalism. It's like Noah's Ark ­there are all kinds of people. To succeed, you've got to leave your stereotypes at the door," she said. "If you go with an open mind, it's terrific." 
College students that hope to work with the program must fill out an application, provide ref­erences and be interviewed over the phone, explained Klausner. 
Although the program has about a 50 percent acceptance rate overall, he noted that almost all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's applicants are accepted. Participants receive $125 per month and earn three credit hours in urban education at St. Vincent 's College, which trans­fer as education or elective cred­its to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
An informational session will be helc\ at 5 p.m. tonight at the esc for students interested in participating. Those who cannot attend may contact Kids Corporation at (973) 481-8805. 

9
T 
THE RULES: 
1. 
Thursday (first day of sale) for ND/SMC/HC only. 

2. 
Tickets are $18 with avalid student 10. 

3. 
Two tickets may be purchased per 10; two IDs per person. 

4. 
Tickets go on sale at 9AM at LaFortune Info Desk. 


5. Tickets, if any remain, for the general public go on sale with special guest Friday, October 30 at LaFortune Info Desk for $23. 
6. The concert is Wednesday, November 11 at Stepan Center.



ev96 
another concert event brought to you by 
TICKETS ON SALE] ~ 

questions, call 1-7757. 
ALL RIGHT EVERYBODY, PAY ATTENTION! 1•M ONLY GOING TO SAY THIS ONCE! 
wednesday,october 2s Pumpkin Painting Party 
4:00-7:00 Fieldhouse Maii/LaFun Ballroom if rain Come paint a free pumpkin for you mom/hall... Food, drink, and bands for your entertainment 
.thursday, october 29 Acoustic Cafe 
Can•t Hardly Wait 
8:00/10:30 Cushing Auditorium $2 

r 
friday, october 30 AfterHours 

Acoustic Cafe--Reekers 
Can•t Hardly Wait 
8:00/10:30 Cushing Auditorium $2 
r 

saturday, october 31 
Can•t Hardly Wait 
8:00/10:30 Cushing Auditorium $2 

Happy Halloween!! 



·llresday, Ocrober 27, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS Drug dealers charge agents 
1./\YTON, UT/\11 
Whill' digging for nvid1•nco in the home of' two brotlwrs aJTPStPd on drug chargns, nar­rotics agPnls arP aeeusnd of' taking a broak hy ordPring thrl'l~ pay-pnr-vinw adult movies. TIH• hom1•owrwr is thn~atPning to suo and both thP stall' and Davis County arn investi­gating. "I•:Vf'rybody is passing tlw bud at this point," said Capt. /\1 i\1:osta of' tho Utah Criminal lnvnstigations Burnau, whieh had agPnts on thn bust. ''I'm not going to place hlanH•.... In my opinion, no onn is bnyond suspirion at this point." i\gnnts of' tho state agt-rwy and tlw Davis Mntro Narcotics Striko Fon·p raidPd .Jim Passarnlli's honw on .June 24 and ar'I'I'Stl'd Passan~lli and his brothor Anthony. 
Alaska to ban billboards 
i\NCIIOR/\C;E 
Frorn /\Iaska 's highways, drivors can gaze at soaring lll'aks, massiVf' gladnrs. ambling moosP -and no billboards whatso1wm·. Orw of' just four statos to ban tlw hugo signs, /\Iaska has long allownd I 1/2-l'oet-by-7 1/2­f'ppt din~rtional signs on public land ·next to 
• BRAZil 

roads. i\f'tPr murh lobbying. businoss groups last ynar managod to gl't a law pass1~d that allmwd t.lw din~rtional signs to bn plac1~d on pl'ivatP land as Wf'll. But anti-billboard f'orcns say t.lw rww law could lw a foot in tlw door to tlw rPally big signs, and tlwy'v1~ put a mPasurP on rwxt wnnk 's ballot to repnal it. ThP nwasur1~ would also affirm that bill­hoards arP l'orPvPr bannPd in /\Iaska. 
Tremors threaten Dominica 
Si\N JU/\N 
Worrind that a spatP of' tiny earthquakes may indil:atl' volcanic aetivity, tho Caribbean na lion of' Dominica is d11voloping an nmnr­gPIH'Y managPment plan, an of'l'ieial said Monday. TrPmors haw occurn~d daily since latP S1~ptnmlwr, most of' them. too small to bf~ !'Pit. But on Friday, there were about 200, inrluding a r.lustor that caused small land­slidns, said Cncil Shillingford, assistant national disastrr coordinator.Tlw tremors' rPlat.ivl~ shallowness -I to 3 miles below the 1-:arth's surface -havn seientists eon­CI'rrwd tlwy might signal an eruption of one ol' Dominica's dormant volcanoes. Lawmakers were to consider Tunsday a dis­astl'r plan for an eruption, Shillingford said. <:ahi rH~l rnmnbers ordPred tlw plan bn draft­Pd during an emnrgeney meeting Fi·iday. "'WI' an• doing it as a pn~caution," he said. "W" don't know what this means yd. It has happPned in tlw past and nothing has hap­pPtlf'll." Tlw clustPr that hit shortly af'ter :{ 
a.m. Jo"r·iday sent bould1~rs and dirt tumbling onto roads leading to Pointe Miehel, Soul'rierP and Seott's llead on the southwest coast. 
I~PM§Mitt&iNt•JIMI 

AMEX:
Dow 6.14.55 
•6 34
}ONES . 
Nasc.laq:-20.0H 1724.98 
+.'11.12 
¥ 
NYSE: 
530.01 
+0. 19 
S&P 500: 
Composite 
1072..12 Volume: 
+ (.(,') 7j9,168,0!10
8,432.21 
AFP Photo 
South American leaders pose after witnessing the signing of a treaty that ended a 50-year-long series of conflicts between Peru and Ecuador. The treaty negotiated a piece of Amazon jungle over which the nations have gone to war twice. 


Treaty declares South American peace 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BRASILIA 
Peru and Ecuador ended a half­century dispute Monday by signing a peace treaty that settles ownership of a slice of' /\mazon jungle the neighboring countries fought two wars to control. 
The presidents and foreign minis­ters of both countries signed the accord at a ceremony in Brazil's cap­ital, wherr most of the peace talks took place. 
The United States, Brazil, i\rgentina and Chile brokcred the treaty, which delineates the border in a 48-mile section of the Andean foothills. Peru and Ecuador both claimed the area, which was left undefined after a 1941 border war. The two countries fought over the strip of land in 1981 and 1995. 
Monday's agreement lays "the cemrnt of peacr," said Peruvian President i\lberto Fujimori. 
"Now we should start to build the building, beautiful and inhabitable," he said at the signing ceremony. 
In a gesture of' reconciliation, Ecuadoran President Jamil Mahuad gave Fujimori a canteen used by Ecuadoran soldiers during the 1941 war. 
"The /\mazon could have been destroyed by a war. Now we pre­serve it with a peace accord," Mahuad said. 
In Washington, President Clinton, who had met with the Ecuadoran and Peruvian presidents at the White House on Oct. 9, offered his congrat­ulations. 
"This signing marks the end of the longest-running source of armed international conflict in the Western Hemisphere," Clinton said in a writ­ten statement. 
Mahuad and Fujimori also signed a separate agreement dealing with cooprration on seeurity, energy, tourism and trade. 
The peace treaty draws the hordrr 
along the heights of the CordillHra 
del Condor mountain range, as Peru 
wanted. 
But it grants a hill within Peruvian 
territory to Ecuador's gov1~rnnwnt. 
The 250-acre hill area, known as 
Tiwintza, is of great symbolie impor­
tance to Ecuador because its soldiers 
successfully defended it against 
Peruvian forces during the 1995 
war. 
In northern Peru on Saturday, 
protesters angry about losing possns­
sion of the hill set fire to government 
trucks and offices. 
Three peopln werr trampled to 
death when police dispersed tho 
crowd of 5,000 with tear gas bombs 
in the jungle city of Iquitos, (,()() 
miles northeast of' Lima. 
Ecuador and Peru began peacn 
talks in 1995. i\l'ter years of slow 
progress, the presidents of the two 
nations mnt in August to work out ·the final details. 

Student loan default rate drops 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
WA-,HINGTON 
The default rate on student loans fell into single digits for the first time. the Education Department repo.rted Monday, citing an agency and congres­sional crackdown as well as an improved economy. 
The drop to a 9.6 percent default rate for fiscal year 1996 was the sixth annual decline since rates peaked at 
22.4 percent in 1990. 
Congress passed legislation in 1990 and 1992 to crack down on borrowers and tt·ade sdwols sueh as beauty col· 
Stricter government co,ntrols have eliminated more than 1,000 schools from the program, while a better econ· omy means "there are jobs for those who fmish college, so they can pay ofT their loans," Clinton said. 
The department noted that the default rate has declined even though the volume of loans has risen dramati­cally. from about $14 billion in 1992 to $38 billion in the 1998 fiscal year. Because of the volume, actual dollar savings aren't as dramatic as they could have been. 
In 1991, for example, the depart­ment had to repay $3.6 billion in default claims to lenders. ln fiseal year. 
A new higher education bill upproved by Congress will further str1:1amlirH~ the program and make it more accountable, said Hep. Bill Goodling, H-Pa.. chairman of thn Edueation and Workforce Committoo. 
"Less timo and money spent on delinquent loans means more time and money to help needy students receive financial assistance," Goodling said. 
Education Secretary Hichard Hiley sttid current borrowers can lessen the chanco of dofault by consolidating loans under a new rate of 7.46 per­cent, made possible under the newly enactNi Higher Education 
leges and truck-driving schools that 1998, the department had to repay Amendments of 1998. Tho deadlino for promised more job training than they $2.8 billion. doing so is Jan. 31, 1999. 
VOLUME LEADERS 
! I !~II'~~~ IU hill 'H I 11-~:S!d :lrliAt:Hil I'IU~ I 
111.1 I. l l 1\.lf'll I~ H !Jt.U. +7. 40 +4.2$ h2.SO delivered. And the country began to The department was still compiling In its report Monday, the department 
\Vl}liL\1 IIC'II w<rl +l7.hh +-0.()tl4 .b2.\ 1 1\lli\Y\'It.M\ t:st:tl +-I.SH +2.bll 61..18 
pull out of a recession in early 1991. information on how much money it said 197,000 borrowers at 7,500 
\IU fHl\PFI ~1\FT +ll.h!i +IJ.()l} IU7.06 
INlll.nlRI' INH' 'f"I.IJ.\ + ].h9 H~\.lH "The student loan program is now a was able to collect from students who schools had defaulted on their loans. I tlMI'.-\I}I'll.\fl'ltltR crQ +2.17 +II. h., 2'l.5() 
H:OM CORP COM~ ... ~.52 +I HI .14.63 shining example of government provid­had defaulted, but preliminary esti­The highest default rates were at the 
I rJJl,IHllJIIINt: CCI .(),67 ·0..11 46..ll 
PARAMf.TRlt. n.nt PMTC +I-lU-I +1.75 14.19 ing opportunity with accountability," mates show an increase from $900 trade schools, with an average of 18.2 AMI RU :A ONI.INF. AOl. +5.2H +6.06 121.00 
President Clinton said in a statement. million last year to $980 million this percent. · 
page 6 
Capital 
continued from page 1 
where they were privileged to a special peek into Vice President AI Gore's office. 
"1 learned more there than in all of my history classes combined," said Dana Fennewald, a sophomore communications major. "It helped to see everything as it really happens, not just out of a textbook." 
The trip also included a night at the theater where students saw the comedy "Shear Madness." When the cast of the play learned that Saint Mary's students would be ih the audience, they changed the script to include references to the college, and one actor even wore a Saint Mary's t-shirt. 
Renshaw started planning visits to D.C. when he served as the coordinator of the Saint Mary's Republican Club. He has led the tour for four out of the six years it has been offered. 
"I decided it would be more fun to take away the politics of the trip and instead visit only the monuments," Renshaw said. 
Renshaw stresses that there's a lot of walking on the trip, and those planning on traveling with him should con­sider a steady conditioning regimen. 
"He moves even faster than most of the politicians' mouths and that's not easy," Horvath said. 

Parking 
continued from page 1 
more distant D-2 lot on the campus' northeast side. Following the 1996-97 con­struction of Keough, O'Neill, Welsh Family and McGlinn Halls, the D-6 lot became overcrowded and its usage had to be rationed. 
'IT'S GOING TO BE EASIER 
FOR STUDENTS TO DO IT THIS WAY.' 
PHIL JOHNSON ASSISTANT DIRECTOR NOTRE DAME SECURITY/POLICE 
Late this summer, contrac­tors shortened and relocated the third hole of the Notre Dame golf course to create room for the extension. Earth movers leveled the area, and then contractors laid an aggregate base and covered it with several layers of asphalt. Lighting and concrete curbing were also added as part of the undertaking. It was a sim­ple, straightforward project, according to facilities engi­neering. 
The contractor Walsh & Kelly, completed its work one full month ahead of schedule; original projections had called for the new lot to open near the Thanksgiving holi­day. 
Help a friend celebrate their birthday by putting an ad in The Observer. Call 1-6900 for rates. 
'ER 2,000 ROSS ALUMNI ARE CURRENTLY
ROSS 
NRESIDENCIES OR PRIVATE PRACTICEUNIVERSITY IN THE UNITED STATES 
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
Graduates licensed and practicing In t~e U.S. Clinical affiliations with hospitals In the U.S. 
US Med Llcens'g Exam (USMLE) pass rate for 10197 exam approx 92% for 1st time test takers. 
Approved to Conduct Clinical Clerkships In NY & NJ. Medical Ed Program Approved By CA 
Financial Aid Available For Those Who Qualify 
WEB SITE: www.rossmed.edu Email: admlsslons@rossmed.edu 
WYOMING CAMPUS MASTER'S OF PHYSICAL THERAPY 
PIOPOSED IUIICR CAMI'US Six semester, entry level, post-baccalaureate 
FOI SCHOOL OF MEDIOIII professional program 
PLARIIID TO Designed to meet CAPTE accreditation criteria 
OPEIIIIII"' Clinical affiliations with hospitals in the U.S. 
Financial Aid EliglbiliNot Determined For P.T. or WyomlnJ Prorams
.13:t·X·1 !·1 '4 i H;J IU\t'IM ·1 31:I. 
Traditional United States Veterinary school curriculum 
Ross University Veterinary School faculty have DVM or Ph.D 
Clinical affiliations with U.S. Veterinary Schools Low student-faculty ratio 
Financial Aid Available For Those Who Qualify WEB SITE: www.rossvet.edu Email: admlsslons@rossvet.edu 
.. ROSS UNIVERSITY .. 
' 460 West 34th Street, New York, NY 1 0001 ' Phone 212 279-5500 . Fax 212 629-3147 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Great Books, Great Deals! 
20% OFF EVERY TITLE OCTOBER 26-30. 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown S.B. Open 10-5, Mon -Fri., lasalle@michiana.org 
Always discounts for ND/SMC faculty & students! 
Tuesday, October 27, 1998
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

mnrk or muaf fuif4 .;ac~ I:i>J ftte WOAid8 evans ;c6llJJ~1 

at the official 




ancJ aeuue 
Alumni Senior Club 
,~allnfutt 

Jartu! 
$3 wlng1t fib.-<. 9>,.~ 
~e ~~ ~·· 
e~ ~~ ~ ~~ 
o~~ o-v 
e~ co 
v.,,••• 
Wednesday, Oct 28. 10:30. '""' 
Oet'u-er-tirj Tk [k:f~t Pizza.! C3®Gl~ ~[})@ ®'D®®~ IJ[]]@~(j]G)~gg  
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 6:00 & 7:30, 11:00-12:30 the price of your the price of your 21arge 1large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. *Plus tax*Plus tax  
ND store Saint Mary's/ 271-1.177 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPAVisa/Mastercard Accepted­ 

Tuesday, October 27, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Student Affairs announces new appointments 
Special to The Observer 
Thn)e new appointments have bnen madn to the office of Studnnt Affairs, according to Patrieia O'Hara, viee presi· dnnt for tho ,.-------., 
of'fk(~. 
S i s t n r Mary I.ouisn Cude has bnen named assistant vice prnsi­d(~nt for 

S t u d e n t Gude Affairs. In hnr nnw position, she will supnrvise the University Counseling C(mter, University 
JI(Htlth Snrvices and the ofl'ico of .Career and Placement Services.· 
Gude also will serve as the principal liaison on projects designed to better integrate the academic and residen-
.--------, tial mission of the University. A member of the Notre Dame com­munity since 1987, Gude has served Rentner as rector of Farley Hall. assistant to the chair of the department of romance languages and litera­tures and advisor to Notre 
Have you ever been affected by breast cancer? Would you like to share your story? 
Dame's standing committee on lesbian and gay student needs. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Gude spent 11 years at Saint Mary's College in a num­'ber of faculty and adminis-.---------, trative posi­tions. She received her bachelor's degree from Saint Mary's in 1963. She earned a '--------'----' Licence cs Moss Lettres from the University of Montreal in 1968 and a doctoral degree in French literature from the University of Pennsylvania in 
1976. 
Father Randall Rentner has been appointed assistant to the vice president for Student Affairs and also will serve as director of the candidate pro­gram at Moreau Seminary. In student affairs, Father Rentner will co-supervise the office of Student Activities with Sister Jean Lenz and the office of Alcohol and Drug Education with Ann Firth. 
Father Rentner received a bachelor's degree in English from Notre Dame in 1984 and earned a master's in educa­tion from Loyola University of Chicago. He previously served at Notre Dame as assistant rector of Zahm Hall. 
G. David Moss has been named special assistant to the vice president for Student Affairs and will work on a variety of projects in the areas of diversity, alcohol and drug edueation and community out­reach. 
Moss, a doctoral studies stu­dent in counseling psychology at Notre Dame since 1994, has served as an intern at the University Counseling Center where he developed and facili­tated the African-American students' support group, and as a course instruetor in the psyehology department. Last spring, Moss received the Distinguished Graduatn Student Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Moss served as rnusie directcr at John Carroll High School in Fort Pierce, Fla., where he was honored as Teacher of the Year in 1986. Although he was not a father at the time, Moss was honored as Father of the Year in 1992 by Mount Zion AME for his outstanding work with young people in the Church. He also served as an admissions coor­dinator at Florida State University. 
Moss received both his bach­elor's degree in music educa­tion .in 1983 and his master's degree in counseling and human systems in 1989 from Florida State. 
St. Mary's RHA is 
planning a breast 
cancer event on 
Wednesday, October 
28th, and we need 
your help. 
Please contact Mary Ellen at 284-4381. 

The Diversity Program of the College of Business Administration Presents a Panel Discussion 
Women in Law: A Unique Perspective on the Justice System 
Panelists 
•Kathleen Brickley, Barnes & Thornburg · •Aladean Derose, Deputy City Attorney 
•
Patricia Hackett, Barnes & Thornburg 

•Greta 
Roemer Lewis, Roemer.& Mintz 


Facilitator: Margot O'Brien, Instructor ofBusiness Law 
Specialty Areas 
•Family Law 
•Sexual/Unlawful 
Harassment 

•
Employment .Discrimination 


•Healthcare Law. 
•Medical 
Malpractice 

•Tax 
& Estate Planning 



•Product Liability 
Date: Wednesday, October 28, 1998 Time: 4:00 to 5:30 p.m. Place: jordan Auditorium, COBA 
-;Astronaut Glenn prepares for liftoff 
The Aswciated PreS$ 
. CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
With John Glenn and his crewmates on hand and, the copp~qown going smoothly, Florida's unpredictable weather is NASA's chief con· 
.. cern as it prepares to launch Wthe shuttle piscovery. Forecasters said· there was only a 60 percent chance of favorable weather for Thursday's launc}l, and they .. vv~rii! keeping aclose eye on 
•· Hurricane MI~c;h churning 
throu h the Caribbean. tor)"h posed· no threat 
··········.····· *ritla, hut forecasters
'$~d ~hat ev(ln from a distance it could generate high winds atthe ocean,..·. 
.e,:ivlailnch
d.\Vipds of.&l 
· By launch day, the high­ways are expeeted to be lined with cars and recreational vehicles filled with spectators awaiting the show. About 3,500 journalists have re$iS· tered to cover tho missiOn. More than two dozen televi· sion trucks jammed the media complex. 
President Clinton and a large congressional delegation are scheduled to attend, along with sports and show busi­ness celebrities. 
The crew was about an hour late arriving at tho space center Monday. One of the five T-38 jets carrying the crew members developed a battery problem when the astronauts stopped !'or refueling at 
Tyndall Air
~2.illl.P··.h·······..·.. a... ·.·.t..••. '.·.. I···.T.'S REALLY GRATIFYING
time . Force Base 
~.c~·a ··..... TO SEE PEOPLE GET SO 
in the .. .. . ertt, FIRED UP ABOUT THE SPACE Florida .· .· ni,::,,;apd Panhandle. s c 0 t t
is stx.::~.~erd 
Parazynski JOHN GLBNN Waited at LEGENDARYASTRONAUT Tyndall for 
a ride in 
another 
plane while 
the others 
flew on to 
the Cape . 
In brief remarks after arriv­ing, Glenn introduced himself as "PS2 on this flight." Payload specialist number 2 is the lowest rank on the crew. 
"I am very glad to be here," Glenn said. "I have been pleasantly surprised at the outpouring of interest in this,_ flight, and it's really gratifying to see people get so fired up about the space program again." 
Glenn walked qukkly to his waiting family, hugging his, wife, Annie, and his children, daughter Lyn and son David. Lyn held her father for a long moment, apparently whisper­ing in his ear. 
In an interview earlier in the day, the astronaut's son, said he at first was apprehen· sive about his father return· ing to space 36 years after becoming the first American in orbit. 

page 8 
Barefooting 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Notre Dame students, like these women on North Quad, took advantage of Monday's unseasonably warm weather to kick off their shoes and enjoy an afternoon outdoors. Today's expected rain should have students back in their loafers. 

HELP STAMP OUT • 
. women's rztes. 
The lesson starts at 8:30 in 301 Rockne and costs $3 for non-members. Not only will Tuesday's lesson be tons of 
fun, but we have a social event planned . for Thursday-a movie and snacks. 
Look for further details in You can join the 
---~ ~----~--------------------------­
Tuesday, October 27, 1998
The Observer • NEWS 
GM recalls cars for emissions 
The Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
General Motors is recalling about 400,000 cars that exceed federal health stan­dards for emissions of carbon monoxide exhaust, the govern­ment said Monday. 
The affected cars are 1993 Chevrolet Luminas, Oldsmobile Cutlass Supremos, Cutlass Supreme convertibles, Pontiac Grand Prixs and Buick Regals -all with six-cylinder, 3.1-liter engines. 
The Environmental Protection Agency, announc­ing the recall, said routine emissions tests identified the higher levels of carbon monoxide and GM agreed to 
notify owners by mail and fix the problem for free. 
GM will replace a defective part of the emissions control system called the evaporative purge solenoid. In addition, the automaker will reprogram a computer memory chip in the Cutlass Supreme convert­ibles to bring down emissions further. 
The convertible had higher emissions than other models in the recall, due to its greater weight. 
Carbon monoxide is a highly poisonous and odorless gas that inhibits the blood's ability to carry oxygen to vital organs and tissue. Infants and people with heart disease or respira­tory problems are especially 
Buick Regals 
All with six-cylinder, 
3. J.liter engines 

sensitive to excessive levels. 
The EPA advised owners to schedule appointments with their dealers when they get tho recall notices. 
tuD5 CORPORAIION ;>_~t11"1ER PROGRAM 
Each year Kids Corporation. a nonprotit organization which operates educational programs for the children ofNewark. NJ. recruits students from all across the nation to help run its summer program. Last summer 120 students fi'Om 53 different college~ worked in our program, with 15 coming from N.D.ISMC. Students are needed as teacher assistan1s <md camp counselors. 

The program runs k1r 8 weeks beginning in late June. Students ~:;.'Toss $125 per week, room and board, and 3 college credits in Llrban Education from St. Vincent's College. THIS IS NOT;\ JOB. ITS AN EXPERIENCE. The work is hard but the children are incredible. For more information please see Colleen and Brian at the student center 
Tues. the 27th at the CSC at 5 PM. or 
And steer yourself toward success. Navistar operates one of the world's largest facilities dedicated to the design, development and testing of trucks and truck components. And we can provide you with the challenges you're looking for in a post-graduate career. If you'll be receiving a BSME, MSME, BSEE or MSEE degree, meet us on campus at the: 
Na~istar lnfor.uation Session Center For Continuing Edu«:ation Roo:rn #112 Wednesday, O«:toLer 28 6:00p:rn 
On-campus representatives will be there to tell you all about the 200 Design Engineering positions avail­able at our leading-edge company. Along with the opportunity to apply the very latest technologies, we offer attractive starting salaries, comprehensive benefit plans and outstanding advancement potential. Come for the information and stay for the refreshments. 
Can't attend? Send your resume or letter of interest to: Navistar International Transportation Corp., Attn: Human Resources, Dept. DNFP-1004, P.O. Box 1109, Ft. Wayne, IN 46801, Fax: (219) 461-1453. Email: ata@navistar.com. Visit our web site at: www.mixi.net/-ntc2. An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer m/f/d/v. 
Questions Or More Information Calll-888-347-3647 or (219) 461-7520. 
JUVISTNl 
Tuesday, October 27, 1998 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

• HONDURAS 
Palestinians shoot Israeli guard Residents flee as 
rlu: A.\.\ot.:iatcd Press militants hoping to wreck the downtown Shaaba neigh­Mideast pmu:omaking. The most borhood, an area under Israeli JJHBHON rncent such killing was in control about 400 yards from 
Mitch approaches 
i\n Jsnwli security guard. was August, when a rabbi was slain the Jewish settlement of Kiryat 
shot tlm~e times and his body  by a mmnbnr of the Islamic mil­ Arba.  
dumpml in downtown Jlebron  itant group llamas.  Sfweral Palestinian journalists  
today in an apparent attack by  Israeli radio reportnrs citnd  said they were driving down a  
Palestinian militants.  Israeli security of'licials as say­ street when a car whizzed by at  
Tlwrn was no immndiatc  ing the assailants apparently  high speed. After driving for  
rlaim of responsibility for the·  wm·e Palestinian militants.  several yards, they saw the vic­ 
slaying. Tlw dead man was  Israel has been bracing for  tim's body lying on the pave­ 
found sprawlml facn down on  terror attacks in recent weeks,  ment and assumed it had been  
the pavnment, a pool of blood  and especially since tho signing  dumped there by the car.  
flowing from his lwad.  of the new pnace agreement  Initially, the witnesses had said  
I lours later, poli(:(~ found the  between Israel and the  they actually saw the body  
body of a Palestinian man near  Palestinians in Washington last  being thrown from the ear.  
tlw .Jewish settlnment of ]tamar  week.  The victim, dressed in white  
in tlH1 West Bank. The body was  Israel TV idcntifed the dead  shorts and a blue T-shirt, wore  
found after police rncnivnd an  Palestinian as Mohammed  a wedding band and sunglasses  
anonymous phone call from a  Zalmouk, a 65-ycar-old from a  with Hebrew writing on the  
man spnaking in llnbrew who  neighboring Palestinian village  strap. He wore only one tennis  
said a Palnstinian had been  who worked in the olive groves  shoe.  
kill(~d and his body loft ncar  outside Itamar. The dead Israeli  The journalists said they noti­ 
!tamar to avenge the Jlobron  was identified as 29-year-old  fied Israeli and Palestinian  
slaying.  Daniel Vargas.  police forces. Palestinian para­ 
Snvnral Israelis have been  The killing in Hebron  medics tried to revive the victim  
kilbl in !Iebron in tho past by  occurred shortly after 2 p.m. in  and then pronounced him dead.  

• KOREA 
Cows run for peace 
convoy of 51 trucks carrying at $1.5 million.
S. Korean man "This time, Mr. Chung will ·
tHe cattle moved into North 
Korea. finalize atourism project being 
Wearing a hat and a trench pushed by Hyundai, which will 
coat, the 84-year-old Chung certainly have a positive effect 
smiled and waved as he on the overall inter-Korea 
shows goodwill 
to North Korea 
walked into the North, accom· relations,'' said Lee 1-Io, tho The Associated Press panied by four'family members chief analyst at the Seoul gov­and Hyundai executives. It was ernment'~ Unification Ministry. 
PANMUN.JOM 
Chung's second trip bearing Relations between the rival Forsaking morll traditional 
cattle to his native North Korea Koreas are icy because of con· tools of diplomacy, the founder in four months. tinuing military and politicalof South Korea's largest con­"It's the groahlst pleasure in tensions. The two Koreas are glol)wrate drove 501 more eat· my life that I can do something technically at war, with no tie across the world's most that will help all of our people peace treaty signed at the end 
heavily armed border Tuesday 
live together in prosperity," of 1950-53 Korean War. in a move hoped to thaw rela· 
Chung said in a statement read South Korea's new govern­lions with North Korea. 
before crossing the border. ment of President Kim Dae· Chung Ju-yung, honorary 
Chung visited the reclusive jung is actively pushing non· chairman of the llyundai 
North in June, bringing with governmental exchanges with group, walked across tho bor· him 500 cattle. Chung's gift North Korea under its "sun· dor at the neutral truce village 
Tuesday included 20 Hyundai shine policy" aimed at openingof Panrnunjom shortly after a 
passenger ears and was valued up the North's closed society. 
The Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA Check Card 
A Smart way to keep your Christmas spending in Check this Holiday Season! 

FASTER 
No checkbook to carry. No check to write. No waiting for check approval. 
EASIER 
Just present your card at the time of purchase, and sign your name. The amount will automatically be d~ductcd from your checking account and you'll get a receipt. Then. on your monthly checking account statement, every pun:hasu will be detailed-with the amount, merchant's name. and location. 
MORE CONVENIENT 
Your :"~Jotrc Dame Federal Credit Union VISA Check Card is accepted everywhere VISA is accepted. It's the smart way to keep your Christmas spending in Check this Holiday Season. 
~NOTRE DAME
v•FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
!NcWiJ
For People. Not For Profit. 
!ndt~penJc:nl \lf lh~ ufim:m:uy 
The Associated Press 
in thn city of San Pedro Sula, 100 miles north of thn LA CEIBA llonduran capital Tegucigalpa. People fled their coastal 
Authorities in San Pedro Sula homes and the Honduran gov­
said they might set up shelt<~rs ernment sent air force planes 
in public schools. to pluck residents ofT remote In La Ceiba, on Honduras' 
Caribbean islands Monday in western coast, people stood in the face of the most powerful long lines at filling stations to hurricane in a decade to buy gasoline under a steady threaten Central America. 
rain. 
Hurricane Mitch became a Maria Gonzalez said slw Category 5 hurricane -the needed the gas to cook with in strongest category there is -case her firewood gets wet. 
on Monday with winds of 180 "I have six children, and we mph. At 10 p.m. EST, Mitch's live in a riverbed," she said. "If center was just west of it gets real bad, we'll go to the Honduras' Swan Island and church and see what the archi­was moving northwest at 8 tect of the world has in store 
mph. 
'IHAVE SIX CHILDREN, AND WE LIVE IN A RIVERBED. IF IT 
GETS REAL BAD, WE'LL GO TO THE CHURCH AND SEE 
WHAT THE ARCHITECT OF THE WORLD HAS IN STORE FOR 
us.' 
MARIA GONZALEZ 
'MITCH IS CLOSING IN, AND Goo HELP us IN THE coM­ING HOURS.' 
MONTERREY CAIIDHNAS, Um.A MAYOR 
J!ONDUI/AN CITIZENS A WAI71NG /IUI/1/ICANE MITCII 
"Mitch is expected to remain for us." 
a very dangerous hurricane The president ordernd all air capable of causing catastrophic force planes and helieoptnrs to damage," the U.S. National evacuate people from the Bay Weather Service said in a islands, a string of small statement from its National islands ofT the central coast. 
Hurricane Center in Miami. Swinwiek Jackson, a fisher­Hurricane Mitch posed no man on one of' the islands, said immediate thn~at to the United he had tied up his boats and States. The storm was exp1~eted was planning to tak1~ his family to remain in the northwest to stay with a relative on high­Caribbean for the next five er ground. Speaking by tele­days, the center said. phone from Utila. 20 miles Jerry Jarrell, the'center's north of La Ceiha, he said most director. said Mitch was the tourists had ldt the island strongest hurricane to strike Sunday but that some wore the Caribbean since Gilbert in stranded and that hotels worn 1988. Gilbert killed more than moving them to houses in tho 
300 people and ravaged mountains. Mexico, Jamaica. Haiti and the "Mitch is dosing in, and (iod Dominican Republic when it help us in the coming hours," 
blasted across the wnstern said Utila Mayor Monterrey Caribbean and part of the Gulf Cardenas. of Mexico, including the Florida Poli(;o spoknsrnan Ivan Mejia Keys, the Florida Straits and said throe rivers -the Coco, Cuba. Segovia and Cruta -all ovnr­
The government of Belizn flownd their banks Monday closed schools Monday and along the eastern Honduran sent its employe(~S who work· coast. along the coast home early to In El Progreso, I 00 miles prepare for the storm. Mnxieo north of' Tngueigalpa. the army 
mobilized troops and emnr­evacuated more than 5,000 gency workers on the people from low-lying banana Caribbean coast of tho Yucatan plantations along the Ulua peninsula. Hiver, said residnnt Nolly 
Honduran President Carlos Soliman. Flores Facusse dedarcd a state Bnforo bnaring down on of alert and told coastal resi­Honduras, Mitch swept past dents to leave their homes for Jamaica and the Cayman 
safer ground farther inland. Islands. Hain squalls flooded 
"Where can I go if I leave my strents in the Jamaican capital, house? The government hasn't Kingston, and govnrnment opened a single shelter," asked offices and schools clos(HI in Pedro Martinez. an electrician thn Caymans, a British colony 

of 28,000 people. 
Heavy rains bngan to fall along the Honduran coast Sunday night, and the hurri­cane's outer winds were expected to lash tho area on Monday and Tuesday. 
Forecasters said they don't expeet Mitch to bn a Category 5 hurricane by the time it makes landfall. 
"We do forecast it to decrnase in strength ovnl' the next 7 2 hours." said Jen~my Pennington a mnteorologist at the National llurricann Center. 
That. didn't stop Flores Facusso from ordering tlw do­sure of all puhlh: ol'fie(1S on the Caribbean coast by noon Monday. 
VIEWPOINT 
pagelO------------------------
-------------------Tuesday, October 27, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. BoxQ, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BusiNEss MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EmTOR Heather MacKenzie 
N£WS EDITOR.. . ......... --Michdle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPanlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR.. .. ...... Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER.. .. ....,_., ..... Brett Huelar SPORTS EDITOR .. -................. -Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS... .. ............. Sarah Dytag CONTROLLER... ............. Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ................jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ......... -....., .............. Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR . . ............. Kevin Dalum 
The Observc=r is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudt:nrs of rhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and 
Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of{hc administration of either institution. The news is 
reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the f..diror·in·Chief, M:maging Editor, Assisram Managing Editor and department ediwrs. Commemaries, letters and 
columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is ,available t<~ all 
members of lhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
rhrough Jcrrers is encouraged. · 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63!-53I3 Managing Ediror/Assisranr ME 631-4541 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 63I-5323 Systems 63I-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax -63 J-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 63I-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 


Houston, You are a Problem 
There has been a great deal of jumping up and down concerning Senator John Glenn's return to space, and I for one would like to go on record as awarding 
Mary Beth Ellis 
the entire. concept a hearty "A-OK." The more members of Congress exposed to harmful solar radiation, the better. 
This is not a slam on John Glenn, Mercury Astronaut, you understand; this is a man whom I have regarded as a high hero since the days when I used to deco­rate empty refrigerator cartons with somewhat recognizable spacecraft mark­ings, scramble inside, count down and conduct an exceptionally technologically advanced liftoff that consisted of leaping to my feet and spinning in very fast cir­cles. The mission ended when I either fell over, threw up or banged into the side of the house. 
But that was last Friday; this is now. And now involves some serious concerns: Last week I had the opportunity to visit the Johnson Space Center, which is a mecca to NASA dorks such as myself who enjoy watching the cinematic masterpiece "Space Camp" for the sole purpose of call­ing attention to not the sublime acting of the one and only Leaf Phoenix, but the innumerable technical errors in the plot. (Case in point: The movie ends with the accidentally launched and teenage-piloted space shuttle landing safely, with absolutely no reference to the humongous lawsuit that these kids' parents must have slapped on the federal government for seating their children atop of several hun­dred pounds of pressurized oxygen. I ask you: ls this realistic?) 
The problem with the Johnson Space Center is that it is located in Houston. Now, I spend nine months out of the year attending college in South Bend, Ind., cul­tural toilet of the Corn Belt, where, as previously discussed in this space, live professional wrestling matches are the primary form of intellectually enriching entertainment. 

And I grew up in Cincinnati, the city that spawned not only Marge Schott, but also Jerry Springer. Therefore, I have developed a certain immunity to munici­pal tackiness. 
Yet I was wholly unprepared for Houston, where billboards advertise not car dealerships and restaurants, but such establishments as "The Hot House: A Store for Lovers" and "The Caddy Shack­Up" ("Fine Entertainment for Gentlemen; Reservations Not Required.") The first car I encountered after broaching the. Houston city limits boasted a plastic license plate border that read, "Happiness is Biting My Parrot Back." In short, this is a city that, on it's way to building a per­fectly fine domed stadium, apparently decided at the last minute that a small, pointless hole left in the center of the roof was far more useful. "Who needs air con­ditioning in Texas?" was probably the prevailing form of logic Houston turned to while building the Astrodome. 
If you're like me-a college student on Fall Break with zero money and zero job prospects and a general sense of academ­ic malaise -if your brains fall out and you decide to voluntarily visit Houston, you should definitely stay with '97 Notre Dame graduates Ben and Tina Peterson. (Two great kids. If you need their address, give me a call. They would just love to extend their hospitality to each and every one ofyou.) 
Ben and Tina, who in spite of being engineering majors somehow managed to retain actual personalities, are newly­weds, so newlywed that they can actually still stand the sight of one another. I expect, however, that their Wedding Aura is well on its way to complete deteriora­tion. At one point in the visit, as the Petersons sat at the kitchen table dis­cussing grown-up married things like mortgage payments and 401K plans, the bride made unto me the following announcement: "One point about being married," said Tina, watching Ben methodically fold paper napkins in half for precise insertion into a napkin holder, "is that you have to be prepared to realize that sometimes your spouse does things that make absolutely no sense." 
Thus advised, I headed for the Johnson Space Center, where a tram tour crammed with people whose average age was at least my years on Earth cubed took us on an exciting tour of the various parking lots surrounding Mission Control. A major nerve center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ­this is one area of the nation where one might expect the cars parked in the "Reserved for Government Employee" spaces to command respect. But this was Houston, and the tram instead crawled past a Cadillac with a SWIM NAKED bumper sticker. 
That rumbling sound you just heard was Khrushchev demanding of God how the United States ever won the space race. 
The gift shop of the Johnson Space Center was one of the greatest things I have ever seen, and I include in this state­ment the time in third grade when Certified Idiot and personal tormentor Bryan Connley fell off his chair in the mid­dle of Reading Hour. The gift shop is a place where NASA sells, for $9.99, the Hot Wheels John Glenn Action Pack. In addition to a teeny tiny "Friendship 7" Project Mercury capsule and a teeny tiny space shuttle Discovery, the Action Pack included two teeny tiny Astronaut Glenns in both early '60s and late 90's space suits. But Wait, There's More-for the delight and wonder of a child near you, the Hot Wheels John Glenn Action Pack also features a teeny tiny "Senator Glenn," complete with briefcase. 
"Senator Glenn" is a truly awe-inspiring duplication of the actual Senator Glenn, if 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

in fact the actual Senator Glenn has no faco. "Senator Glenn's" head resembles a sawed-ofl' Q-Tip which has been painted a pale shade of Average Caucasian on one side. Yet "Senator Glenn," with his brief­case and all, cuts a powerful figure as he pretends to stride across his teeny tiny plastic grey base. You can just imagine him at the ready to attend teeny tiny fundraisers and filibuster teeny tiny omnibus bills. It saddens me, however, that "Senator (~lenn," unlike his fellow "Astronaut Glenn," comes with no mode of transportation, intergalactic or other­wise. My guess is that his limousine is sold separately. 
I'd really like to see an entire line of Action Figures featuring various politi­cians. There is tremendous marketing potential in a President Clinton Action Figum (consdence not included), com­plete with removable boxers. And imagino a child's eyes lighting up on Christmas morning after unwrapping a Ted Kennedy Action Figure packaged with his own wet bar and SWIM NAKED bumper sticker; a deluxe voice-chip version would hit on teeny-tiny Congressional pages. Or imag­ine· the Ken Starr Action Figure: "Now with unilateral SUBPOENA POWER!" 
The plastic AI Gore, of course, by virtue of its inanimate state, will be patently indistinguishable from the actual AI Gore. 
Mary Beth Ellis, a constituent ofJohn Glenn's, is a senior at Saint Mary's College majoring in English writing and political science with a minor in U.S. his­tory. Her action figure, to be made avail­able from Matte! in time for the holiday season, will come complete with stagger­ing student-loan debt. She will award a Mary Beth Ellis Student Debt Action Figure TM to the first non-political science or government major who can define the word "constituent" unassisted. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• UUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The truly important 
things in life -love, 
beauty and one's own 
uniqueness -are constant­
ly being overlooked.' 
-Pau Casals 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 27, 1998------------------os~ERVER ----------------------page II 
• PROGRESSIVE STUDENT AlliANCE 
Genocide in Rwanda What are You Doing About it? 
I will never l'orget discussing "Night" in Core lions, beatings and unfair trials. In April, the gov­dass sophomore y1~ar. In it. Elie Wiesel presents a ernmenl carried out the first executions against graphic account of lil'1~ within Nazi coneentration those convicted of genocide. Amnesty camps. Yet. what disturhml m1~ most is that, while International believes these executions and any many wern aware ol' the llolocaust, few did any-further exee.utions constitute another major step thing to stop it. Other European countries knew backwards for human rights and will seriously and supported Cnrmany's attempt to eradicate harm the prospects of reconciliation and respect the .l11ws. As the rwws ================ for human life in Rwanda. 
rnadwd Amnrira. The New Mass murder on such a scale York Times n~legatl'd it to its has a numbing effect. Joseph hack pages. Even the .Jews of Stalin once said that a single
Brian
Wies1d's own town would not death is a tragedy, but a mil­lwlinve others that tlwy were lion deaths is a statistic. !wing s11nt to din. I kept ask­The initial response, especial­ing mysPif: flow could they ly in the comfortable bubble of
Monberg
possibly ld this happen? Why our campus, is to ignore that 
-----========---­
didn't anyorw do anything? 
While it is easy to criticize previous generations for their failure to act, it is much harder to 1u:ccpt that similar tragedies occur right now in our own time. 
In the spring ol' 1994 more than one million Hwandans were murdered in the first genocide ol'lieially recognized by the United Nations since the llolocaust. Nearly 2 million others were forcml to flee to otlwr African countries. This mass slaughtnr has contin­twd to affect the people of Hwanda, most noticiHthly through tlw govnrnment's mistaken attempts to control the rag­ing eivil war. 
Sin en l>ncmn bnr 1997. hundrnds and possibly thou­sands of pen­pin have "dis­appnared" throughout Hwanda. Thousands of othnrs have been killed by nwmbers of the Hwandnsc l'atriotie Army and by armed opposition groups. Many of these groups deliberately targnt unarmed civil­ians, oftnn without dis­crimination. These "dis­appParancl~s" havn bneomc so common that family mem­hnrs no longnr make an effort to notify authorities, either out of fear for their own lives or the knowledge that lit­tle will hn donn. 
The Hwandcse government targets these civil­ians in an attempt to control the armed conflict in thn country. While the government has the right to protect itself against armed groups, it does not havn the right to deliberately kill unarmed civil­ians. Sueh aetions will never lead to peace. In addition, the government has committed numer­ous human rights violations in the al'termath of thn gnnocidc, including arbitrary arrests, pro­longiHI detention without trial in horrible condi­
such things happen and feel 
powerless to stop them. Yet 
those arc the feelings we must resist. We are 
obligated to work for change of such situations. 
Learn about the events in our world. Amnesty 
International has a great web site 
(www.amnesty.org) loaded with research of Rwanda and other global happenings. Educate others. Discuss the events and possible solutions. Finally, write to the government of Hwanda, let­ting them know you are aware and want change. One person and one let­ter does make a differ­ence, and you will join millions of others who are doing the 
Embassy ofThe 
Republic of Rwanda 1714 New 
Hampshire Avenue, NW 
Washington D.C. 20009 United States 
It must never 
happen again. We are the lead­ers of tomorrow; 
let's act. 
Brian Monberg is the President of Amnesty International Notre Dame. Amnesty International is sponsoring an Awareness Night at Recker's coffee house this Wednesdayfrom 9-11 p.m. We plan on having about three acoustic 
sets play. In addition. Father Patrick Gaffney. chair of the Anthropology Department. and Garth Meintjies. Associate Director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights, will speak. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the PSA or The Observer. 
• lETIER TO THE EOITOR 
Right Reason not Right Jp Treatment of Homose~iialH'iS~sue 
Until the two spiritut~l aspirants who author Ilight Reason either turnfrom the penfuptayer • begin to attack with equal alacrity all those who transgress any of the Church'stea.chings on :; they will persuade no one that they are motivated by love of Scripture and Truth, and not by a particu~ lar animus toward homosexuals. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-life Argument Misunderstood 
This letter is in response to Steve Gnhrmann's letter of 
September 26th, printed on the 30th. In it he eritieiwd 
my letter of the 24th. First, I never used the word "Iogie" 
once in my article. I presentnd my argumnnts in a thesis­
argument styln which is the standard for a communica­
tion of this sort. I was somewhat disappointed in that in 
attacking my arguments, he gave rather unconvincing 
reasons why they were wrong, and they shall be 
addressed below. I would like to point out as a word of 
caution to him that indeed people do argun that killing 
an innocent human being is morally wrong. That is the 
point of this and the other article of mine, for that is 
exactly what I am doing. 
As for his examples of actions, they are to be divided into two categories, and judged objectively from them: what is natural, i.e. according to the designed funetion, for the human body is not sinful. Thus menstruation is a good, while the others mentionnd arc not according to the function of the parts and thus morally wrong. I would ask if Mr. Gehrmann would use a spatula to dig a hole. Anything but a shovel would be a false usn. Robbing parts of the human anatomy of their purpose is similarly false. Although one could, theoretically, dig a hole with a spatula, it would be quite absurd. 
The first good argument is simply that a fntus is not a living thing. An unborn fetus is no more a person than an unhatched egg is a chicken. One should have no more problems with aborting a fetus than with scrambling an egg for breakfast. 
The difficulty with this is two-fold. Firstly, the human nature is not only that of the animal nature but with something added called a human soul. Secondly, the fetus is biologically alive. I shall address the latter first. 
From a biological point of view. the cells making up a fetus meet all of the requirements of life: they respire, grow, and all others. The fetus as a whole is also appar­ently alive; blood circulates, it develops and grows as time goes on. Cells go through their full cycle in a fntus just as they do in an older creature. Simply from a biolo­gist's perspective, the fetus then seems to be alive. Although I have not addressed all of them specifically in the interests of space, a fetus fits the requirements of a living thing. 
The second element of this argument involves the soul of the fetus. Certainly it can be said that if the fetus is a human, and if humans have souls, then the fetus has a soul (by Aristotelian allegory, if all x's have z's, andy is an x, then y has a z). The only way that a fetus would not have its own soul is if it was only a part of its mother and not its own separate creature in itself. I would refer to my argument of the last lntter to illustrate that fetuses are indeed separate from their mothers in substance, an independently endowed identity from its mother, even with its dependence for survival upon her. As the fntus must be in substance a human-they are certainly not automobiles, hippopotamuses, or potatoes, as their genetic code is human -and the fetus is separate from its mother, being a definite developing individual crea­ture, then the fetus fits all of the requirements to have a soul. Even in its embryonic stages this argument holds, simply because of its distinctive genetic structure as an individual creature. 
There are serious problems with limiting human life to the two criteria that Mr. Gehrmann does. If sentience is a necessary quality of human life. then according to Mr. Gehrman's definition of it, I would wonder if I am human if I have been knocked unconscious. I am not aware of my surroundings at all, and at least for a time, incapable of it. Does that mean that I am tlwn not human? Can we then morally commit murder if we knock the victim unconscious first? Are the severely mentally retarded not human? In regards to the other human matter argu­ments: first, human flesh is not a human person without a soul attached to it. Thus the lab scientists arc quite readily excused. Second, the viability of a fetus, if a per­son, as discussed above, would be quite like the viability of any other human person. If we are to judge morality of killing by whether something will live or not, then is it just to shoot terminal cancer patients? Viability does not then seem a valid method of judgement. 
There are other arguments which have little to do with a theocentric morality but with a social contract theory for any atheists who are still not convinced. If anyonn would like to read them, they are welcome to e-mail me and I shall send them. I hope that these reflections have been enlightening. I thank The Observer for their kind­ness. 
Nathaniel Hannan Freshman, Dillon Hall Theology/Philosophy and Chemistry Major October 6, 1998 

OTHE 
page 12--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Tuesday, October 27, 1998 ­
BSERVER 


Right: Big Bad Voodoo Daddy enjoy popularity in today's swing-friendly atmosphere. 
Left photo courtesy of www.totalswing.com 
Right photo courtesy of www.totallyfa.com 
Swino dancino is eryoyedfir a new oeneration 
By JENELLE WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 
Jivein' music with a snappy tune and a quick beat. Zoot suits and two-toned, wing tip shoes. Twirls and aerials. Oh yes, Swing is back. This reborn fad has infiltrated American culture. The craze that swept the nation and invigorated young people in the 1930s and 40s is making a comeback ... in some form. 
But, how did it all begin? 
Long ago. before the Cherry Poppin' Daddies, before Disco or the Beatles, even before World War II, a new style of music was growing in popularity. Originating from Irish and African­American music forms, early jazz sounds served as a major influ­ence to social dance. In 1912, Harry Fox fashioned the fox trot which lead to the development of the Charleston during the roar­ing 20s. 
But these early dances were not usually accepted by white society due to their black origins and influences. In 1927, howev­er, Charles "Lindy" Lindbergh's historic solo flight to Paris marked a difference in this segregationist and racist ritual. Supposedly, a young man at the Savoy Ballroom in Harlem, over­come with the thrill of the flight and joy of dancing, described his movements by stating, ''I'm flying like Lindy." The dance became known as the Lindy-Hop. When white society discovered the Lindy Hop, the name Jitterbug was often used to describe the dance. 
Perhaps the most influential dancers were those that composed a professional troupe from the Savoy known as Whitey's Lindy­Hoppers, after Herbert "Whitey" White. It was a member of this famous group, Frankie Manning, who took the Lindy to the next level. 
In 1935, this lead dancer and choreographer for the troupe astounded audiences with the invention of the aerial lift. That same year, Benny Goodman, a member of a jazz ensemble, also made a bold move. During a dance at Los Angeles' Palomar Ballroom, he became fed up with the "sweet" music typically played by white bands at the time and insisted on playing a big­band arrangement. The crowd was wildly enthusiastic. That same year Goodman's band made a triumphant tour cross-coun­try, taking the nation by storm. 
The Swing Era had begun. No longer was the dance, whether called the Lindy or the Jitterbug, limited to one racial group or another. It became a craze which permanently altered American dance. 
Swing was more than just big bands and large dance halls. It added new twists to the exultation in human physicality/sexuality which began in the 1920s. Such moves as the man pulling the woman through his legs or spinning her around and causing her skirt to fly up were considered transgressions against morality. Swing dancing became a way for kids to cut loose and rebel against convention. 
Most likely, participants in the new generation swing don't represent such a noble cause. Perhaps they're simply rebelling against the grunge-alternative rock chaos of the 90s. Or maybe they're finding new methods of socializing through the latest (or oldest) trend. 
The rebirth of Swing originated with the movie "Swing Kids". A film centered around a group of anti-Nazi hepcats in Germany during World War II, it features scenes pumping with emotionally charged swing dancing. Other cinematic influences include "Malcolm X," featuring dance scenes choreographed by Frankie Manning, "The Mask" and "Swingers." 
The music industry has also played a key role in the rebirth of Swing. Groups such as Cherry Poppin' Daddies, Big Bad Voodoo Daddy and the Squirrel Nut Zippers helped to bring the genre into the mainstream. Amongst the groups, however, there are discrepancies and debate over the exact definition of Swing. 
This leads some to feel that when bands who grew up on rock music attempt the smooth and assured rhythm of early groups, the result feels forced. And in Swing, the feel is everything. It's a music of implication -what's left out is as important as what's put in and patience is crucial. 
But all technicality aside, the dance itself is loads of fun and easy enough to learn. Perhaps this is the greatest allure to learn the sixty year old moves. Those interested in learning can find dance studios and seminars nation-wide or here at the Hock and/or Stepan Center on Wednesday nights. 
The Internet also possesses a vast assortment of information for those wanting to walk the walk and talk the talk of Swing. But knowing·the lingo is not necessary for having fun. And since zoot suits are pretty hard to come by, proper attire might just be a nice pair of khakis from the Gap. 

Tuesday, October 27, 1998---------------O THE
BSERVER -----------------page 13 

6JI1e roots ofs'lVinB··· 

.... 

.. 
Swing Dancing at ND 


What: Beginning, intermediate and advanced classes 
in swing dancing When: Wednesday nights Where: Rockne Memorial Cost: $2 per lesson 
Classes are taught by students with swing experience and are open to all. Call Gregg Barlin at 634-4110 if you have any questions. 
Wednesday, October 28th 8:30-t 1 p.m. Stepan Center Open to all $1 
There will be intennediate lessons in Swing for the first 45 minutes. 
Open dance for the rest of the night~ 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 27, 1998 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Sachire falls in finals at ITA grand slam 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame junior All­American men's tennis player Ryan Sachire advanced to the final of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association' All­American Championships, the seeond of the four ITA colle­giate grand slam events, before losing 6-3, 7-6 (7-2) to Harvard's second-seeded and fourth-ranked James Blake October 19. 
Saehire became just the seeond Notre Dame men's tennis player to reach the final of a collegiate grand slam, joining David DiLucia in 1992. 
Sachire, ranked eighth in the ITA rankings, reached the final by rallying for a 6-7 (6­8), 6-3, 6-4 semifinal win over Washington's unseeded and 21st-ranked Robert Kendrick in his first match on October 19. 
"To get to the final of a col­legiate grand slam is pretty special." said Sachire, who earned All-America honors as sophomore with his third­round performance at the NCAA championships. "It was a lot of fun out there. 
"In the semifinal mateh, 
both of us were playing well, and it came down to who fought harder and won the big points. Fortunately, I won most of those points down the stretch. Against Blake, I wasn't totally disappointed to lose. He is the second seed and a great player. It came down to a point here and a point there, and he won them. I was pleased with my performance, and I'm really excited about the rest of the upcoming year and helping the team as much as possi­ble." 
The Canfield, Ohio, native and former Canfield High School standout was one of eight seeds in the 64-player draw at the ITA All-American Championships. He reached the quarterfinals of the tour­nament last year as a sopho­more. 
Sachire finished with a 5-1 record in the tournament and posted straight-set wins over Texas A&M's Shuon Madden, Northwestern's 64th-ranked Doug Bohaboy, Miami's 46th­ranked Ivan Rodrigo and Stanford's 30th-ranked Alex Kim to reach the semifinals. 
He is now 7-2 in singles this season. 
• NATIONAL BASKETBALL issOCIAnO' 
League aiii;Union make progress 

Atlanta 
The common somewhat on hard salary was asking to sides have to a luxury tax least in principle; the next three sea-to an agreement on a fallback system economic issues. salary cap for the 

"We need a system •• · three years. eventually get$ to w The union was asking for a there's a set percentagefor .tax system lasting two years, the players and a set percent• with the fallback system last­age for the owners;'' deputy ing another two years, commissioner Russ Granik Schayes said. said. "I don't think it has to Still, the sides had not made be a hard cap, and in faef any movement on whose con­some of the things we're talk" ..... tracts would be taxable and ing about now are not bar~,):; how high the tax would be. caps." . . ;:·;~··· . In earlier bargaining ses-
About 20 people frqm th~ sion$,)We union proposed a union and 10 from the leag~~2{J!H90 pe~cent tax on the amount worked through the afte ··· " ' any 9rmual salary exceed-and into the night at a $Htniillion, and the own-Manhattan hotel.. .·· · · ;r§posed a tax of any-
The ·s.ite was kept·.· a e rtorn.50 to 200 percent to avoid the circus. ... . y ~ontract signed under phere that .~as surro·.u:n Bird exception for more than $2.6 million annu­ally. 
The sides have agreed to meet again Tuesday and Wednesday. Tuesday's ses­sion will focus on non-eco­nomic issues, and Wednesday's meeting will cover many of the topics dis­cussed Monday. 
Stern, Granik, Hunter and union president Patrick Ewing met for about three hours Saturday to conclude a contentious week that includ­ed arbitrator John Feerick's decision on owners' liability for guaranteed contracts and the union's militant meeting in Las Vegas. 
•The tone has changed coming out of Vegas," said Jim Mcilvaine of Seattle, another member of the union's executive committee. "Every day we don't reach a deal is another bad day, and all we've agreed upon is that we'll continue to meet." 
Monday's talks came in advance of a two-day meeting of the league's Board of Governors. 
It was Stern's best chance to make a bold move toward settling a dispute that has lasted nearly four months and has forced the league to can­cel games for the first time in its history. 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
tied the game at 29:52 with a blast into the lower right corner of the net. 
"I think we pretty much domi­nated that game," Makinen said. "We missed a lot of chances, but that has been a problem for us all season." 
The problem of missed chances came to the forefront when Seton Hall shocked Notre Dame, 3-2, just two days after the Irish tied the Huskies. 
"We had a lot of chances," said Brown. "I think we got unlucky on a lot of them, but we need to be more efficient and effective up front." 
Notre Dame held a clear-cut advantage in every statistic except goals. The Irish had a 29-5 edge in shots, a 7-1 advan­tage in corner kicks, and had just six fouls to Seton Hall's 13. 
Heft put Notre Dame ahead when she volleyed in a Jen Grubb corner kick at 7:18. The Irish couldn't convert any of their other 13 shots in the first half and led 1-0 at halftime. 
Seton Hall scored on its final three shots and Heft's tying goal at 77:45 wasn't enough to lift the Irish past the Pirates. Kelly Smith and Courtney Wood each added a goal in the second half to force the overtime. Wood scored again just over a minute into the overtime to give unranked Seton Hall the upset victory. 
"I don't know what went wrong," Makinen said. "I think we were the better team; we just didn't play like we know we can." 
"It was definitely unexpect­ed," Brown added. "We need to come together and work togeth­er and find unity within the team." 
The 3-2 loss marked the Irish's first defeat to an unranked opponent since 1990, a span of 183 games. 
It didn't get much easier against No. 21 Michigan, but the Irish did rebound with wins over the Wolverines and St. John's. 
Last Friday, Notre Dame and Michigan found themselves deadlocked at zero at the end of regulation, but Heft came up big again and scored the game winner at 112:58. 
"Jenny has been doing awe­some this season," Brown said. "She really comes through when the team needs it. It's good to have her." 
"She's the only one that's scored goals for us," Makinen added. "She kept us in the games." 
Jenny Streiffer intercepted a muffed punt by the Wolverine goalkeeper and slipped a pass through the back line to Heft, who punched the ball into the net to give the Irish a hard­fought 1-0 win. 
Once again, the Irish outshot their opponent, but could only manage one goal, Notre Dame had 23 shots to Michigan's five. 
The Irish closed out the six­game road trip with a trip to Jamaica, New York, to take on St. John's, which stands at the bottom of the conference stand­ings. 
The Irish got off to a slow start, but scored two goals in under a two-minute span to take the lead. 
Makinen scored her 1Oth goal of the season when she volleyed in a Jenny Streiffer cross at 
25:03 and Brown was the bene­ficiary of a high bounce ofT the artificial turf that went over the head of Red Storm goalkeeper Jen Hall and into the net at 26:16. 
Heft scored her team-leading 22nd goal of the season when she volleyed in Grubb's free kick from two yards out at 70:26. 
LaKeysia Beene recorded her second straight shutout. 
The Irish now stand at 14-2-1 (8-1-1 in the conference) on the season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
., ......... Losr········ SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! PHONECARDS!$20 BUYS MINS. FOR SALE Baylor Tix For Sale 3 COM PALM Ill electronic Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,& USA282, FOOTBALL TICKETS Call Shannon 4-3945 
NOTICES 
organizer. Lost on Friday October S.Padre. CANADA 237, 271-9412 
9, at aprox. 7:00pm If found please 14 Free Meals+ 34 hrs. Free HONG KONG 100, 2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­THE COPY SHOP call Carl @273-2530 (no ?'s asked) Parties.America's best prices & IRELAND 155, WANTED 67 46 daze or 672-7284 eves. LaFortune Student Center ........REWARD"*"* packages.Campus sales reps want­FRANCE 135, NO FOOTBALL TICKETS We're Open A Lot!!! ed Earn free trips + cash GERMANY 135, 271-1526 2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight WANTED 1.800.SURFS.UP MEXICO 94, 6746 daze or 672·7284 eves.
I 
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm 
PUERTO RICO 237, NO Ftbl. tix Sat: Noon -6:00 pm SPRING BREAK '99! UNITED KINGDOM 315. BUY-SELL 2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­Sun: Noon -Midnight Cancun*Nassau• Jamaica*Mazatlan For orders/ info, call 674-7645 6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. When you need copies, • Acapulco*Bahamas 616-684·3339 we're open! Cruise'Fiorida*South Padre 1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and 2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by 
Travel Free and make lots of NEAR CAMPUS. IN LINE SKATES Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323 Early Spring Break Cash!Top reps are offered full-time AVAIL. NOW Ultra Wheels Kriptonics 674-7645 x4709 lv msg Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 staff jobs.Lowest price GILLIS PROPERTIES.272·6551 Men's 13 New $285 Sale $75 Days $27911ncludes most meals! Guaranteed.Call now for details! CROSS COUNTRY BICYCLE NO Football Tickets Needed. THREE BAYLOR GA TIX FOR Awesome Beaches. Nightlife! www.classtravel.com ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR Univega Activa for tall men AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 SALE.Mark 404/875-1171. Departs From Florida!Cancun & 800/838-6411 ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE New $450 Sale $125 Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. Both Used Once Call1-4001 NO FOOTBALL TIX Need 1 Baylor !!!! $339!Panama City Room With FREE SPRING BREAK '99 FOR SALE Call Erin x4286 Kitchen,? Free Parties With COLLEGE TOURS THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with AM 232-2378 $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen Organize 20 travelers,earn 2 FREE Breakfast Inn has space available orthopedic mattress set and deluxe PM 288-2726 Always buying and selling N D 
~· $149!springbreaktravel.com trips. Call FREE (800)395-4896 for football/parent wknds. frame.New,never used,still in plas­football tickets. 289-8048 1 -800-678-6386 5 Rooms with private baths tic.$225 Need LSU tix Looking for attractive women w/ $80-$115 219·862-2082 289-2918 
I PERSONAL 
OUR B&B has rooms for Baylor and good promotional skills to promote Middlebury LSU due to last minute cancellation. Jagermeister. Must be 21 & have 30 miles from campus. Need 2 Baylor GAs. FAX IT FAST!!! 
I TICKETS 
1.5 mls from ND/SMC. transportation. Caii1-800-TO­Toll Road, Exit #107 Please call212-636-7472. Sending & Receiving Great rates, super place for par­JAGER. 1-800-418-9487 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME at ents! Call277-2388 GAMES.272-6306 1 Baylor GA for sale THE COPY SHOP 
FEMALE MODELS Wanted for BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY-leave offer 4x1 067 LaFortune Student Center undergrad photo project. Diverse TICKETMART Inc Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 ILOST & FOUND I ages and races wanted. If interest­,-•-F;~;G~~;103 BUY-SELL-TRADE NEED LSU TIX FAX IT FAST!!! 
ed contact Amanda @x3199. Notre Dame Football Tickets Call Matt 287-5179 Lost-Brown, leather. Wilson 258-1111 Amy and Zoo we made it! football w/ Alabama High School CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED PREPAID PHONE CARDS No student tickets please Baylor GA 4sale x1067 Heartland on Thursday? insignia on the side-EARN UP TO $11.00 198 MIN. $20 xoxo last seen friday 8/9 on or near Part-time work around class. CALL 258·4805 4 Baylor GAs for Sale. OJ McGlinn fields-has special No telemarketing. Car needed DO YOU Have Friends coming in Call Jeff @ x3592 sentimental value· Scholarships available. FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! for Baylor that you want to sit with? Retired nurse will babysit. if found call 2:30 until 5:30 mon-wed. Bed box set. not available in I have 4 Baylor GA's in the student 2 Baylor tix for sale. 273-1510 $3/hr. Own car. refs. please call Chris at 4-1817 282-2357. U.S. call pete at 251-0178. section. Call me x2276. Leave offer. 289-0332. 
Tuesday, October 27, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

will lecture on 
---Meaning in American Politics----1 

Wednesday, October 28, 7 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Senator Bradley's address is the fourth of five public policy addresses he will deliver on campus this fall. Live on the web at: http://www.nd.edu/-webcast 

~~----­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 27, 1998 
Recycle the Observer 
Admissions Office now open 8:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. on Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. 
e new world opened up one Saturday morning." 
"That's when we visited the campus of Holy Cross College -and my daughter decided she had to go there." 
Good decision! No doubt it was aided by the fact that they could talk with someone 
. HOLY
from our Admissions Office. It's now open on all Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. So college-bound students and their families who are in town for a game can get the 
~M-,,•CROSS 
full scoop on what our college has to offer. Of course. you can talk with someone in 
'~JJ COLLEGE
the Admissions Office any weekday. And, if you can't visit us when you're in town for 
P.O. Box 308 
a game, you can learn more about us at the Holy Cross Hospitality Thble in Joyce 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 Center. We're a two-year. transfer-intent liberal arts college with a knack for nurturing 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
young minds and giving wings to young dreams. Stop by. And let us open up a whole 
Website: http://\\1\o\w.hcc-nd.edu new world for your son or daughter. E-Mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
0
R i g h t f o r -,,,, y o U • , ''/•-r i g h t /-· f r o m t h e s t a r t •
w 
• GOLF 
Klein leads Irish golfers in fall finale 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore Mary Klein (Kokomo, Ind.) used one of the best rounds of the 76­player tournament to finish tied for sixth with a 15l total, following the second and fimll round of action Saturday at the second annual Notre Dame Invitational, held at the par-72, 5,930-yard Bonita Springs Cypress Golf Course. 
Notre Dame entered the day tied with Minnesota and Illinois State for sixth place in the 13­team field but dropped to an eighth-place finish, just one shot behind Michigan, two back of Kent and Iowa and five behind Northwestern. The Irish concluded their fall sea­son by improving by four shots from the previous day (318­314). 
Irish junior captain Andrea Klee -who led the squad in the first three fall tournaments -faltered with a second­round 82 to finish tied for 28th. Freshman Kristin McMurtrie posted her best round with the Irish. carding a final-round 78 to finish tied for 20th at 158. 
Klein's final-round 74 is the 
best by an Irish women's golfer 
this fall and tied with three 
other golfers in the tournament 
field for the third-best round of 
the Invitational, trailing only 
the first-round 71 by medalist 
Patty Frohna of Wisconsin and 
the second-round 73 by run­
ner-up Jena Harris of 
Cincinnati. Iowa's M.C. Mullen 
and Michigan State's Emily Baste! both shot second-round 7 4s en route to tying for third at 151. 
Klein came up one shot shy of besting her career-high fin­ish. as she tied for fifth last spring at the 83-player Indiana Invitational (71-80-79). Wisconsin held on for the team title, edging Michigan State by four shots. Minnesota jumped 
from its share of sixth to  a  
third-place finish. thanks to  a  
strong final-round 306.  

Notre Dame junior Beth Cooper and Irish sophomore Becca Schloss . an individual entrant, each tied for 42nd while another Notre Dame sophomore individual entrant, sophomore Danielle Villarosa, tied for 48th. Sophomore Shane Smith and junior Brigid Fisher rounded out the Irish contingent. 
Klee's 160 lowered her team­best season stroke average to 80.50, followed by Klein (81.70). Klee counted to the team score in all 10 fall rounds, followed by Klein (9), Fisher (7) and Smith (5). McMurtire has counted to the team score in five of her seven rounds as a member of the starting six while Cooper has counted in four of seven rounds as a starter. 
Notre Dame concludes the fall with a 327.60 average for the count-four team score, nearly eight shots higher than the 1997-98 average of 319.88. The average score counted to the team total in the fall was 81.90. 

esday, October 27, 1998 page 21
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
+Campus Ministry This Week + 







OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: ' 631-7800 
112 Badin Hall: 
631-5242 
Basilica Offices: 
631-8463 
Web Page: 
http://www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Freshman Retreat #19 (November 13-14) Sign-Up Starts October 26 to November 9 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your Rector 
Target Dorms: Farley, Fisher, Howard, Keenan, Keough, O'Neill, Pasquerilla West, St. Edward's and Walsh 
Tuesday, October 27, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, October 28, 7:00 pm, Log Chapel Part 4 of a Seven-Part Series on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Fortitude by Fr~ Mike Baxter, CSC 
Thursday, October 29, 7:00-9:00 pm, LaFortune Ballroom Emmaus Kick-Off. All are Welcome. 
Thursday, October 29, 8:00pm, ND Room at LaFortune Africentric Spirituality: Freshmen Intro Reception 
Friday, October 30, 8:15pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Liturgical Choir Concert of Sacred Music 25th Year Reunion 
Saturday, October 31, 8:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Folk Choir Concert for Missions to benefit the Santiago Orphanges 
Saturday, October 31, 10:00 am-6:00pm, Lindenwood Afric_entric Spirituality: Sophomore Intro 
Sunday, November 1, 12:00 noon-8:00pm, St. Joe Hall Freshman Retreat #19 Team Retreat 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's ChapeL Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
NDE #53 (Dec. 4-6) Sign-up Monday-Friday, Nov. 2-6, 103 Hesburgh Library 
,---------~---~---­page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 27, 1998 
-Irish 
continued from page 22 
season, Notre Dame played a closely contested game against the undefeated Huskies. 
Connecticut took advantage of an 8-5 shot differential in the first half to get its first and game-winning goal. Samuel Forko came off the bench for the Huskies t~ put a shot past Irish goalkeeper Greg Velho in the left corner from six yards out at 36:14. The pass reached Forko on a Maurizio Hocha cross from wide right. 
Rocha finished off the scor­ing with 9:05 left to play on a Luis Arauz pass that he put away from just outside the penalty box. 
The key factor in the game was Connecticut's ability to shut down the Irish attack, which was held scoreless for just the second time in 13 games this season. 
Goalie Bryheem Hancock faced just four shots on goal in notching the shut-out, giv­ing him Big East co-goalkeep­er of the week honors. 
The Huskies also had the rookie of the week in defense­man Chris Gbandi for anchor­ing the Huskie defense to the shutout. 
Velho responded just two days later as Seton Hall came to Alumni Field to close the two-game homestand for Notre Dame. 
The senior picked up his 24th career shutout in the 2-0 victory. 
The win was the first for the Irish in league play since a September 20 overtime win at Villanova. 
Murphy and a defense that forced the Pirates to take five of their 13 shots from outside the 18-yard box complement­ed the five saves in goal by Velho. 
"The defense did a good job shutting down their big play­ers, like Peter Scavo," said co-captain Matt Johnson. 
Both Scavo, the Pirates leading scored from a year ago, and Jeff Rigby, the top returning defender, were held to three shots apiece. 
On the other side of the field, wide midfielder Andrew Aris returned to top form after an early-season injury. Aris netted the first two-goal game of his career. setting the tone early with his first just 1:34 into the game. He was assisted by Johnson and forward Scott Wells. 
"It's been about time that the midfielders scored a few," said Aris on the recent surge of the midfielders to the goal. 
Aris alone scored four of the five goals in the two wins, with the other credited to Johnson, a fellow midfielder. 
Another player to step up has been sophomore midfield­er Dustin Pridmore. A recent starter at that position, Pridmore has helped spark an attack that was solely reliant on its forwards in the past. 
"We're not relying on the forward as much," said Pridmore. "We've taken pres­sure off of them, and that makes us a better team with a larger scoring threat." 
Aris' second goal was on a penalty kick that blew by Seton Hall goalkeeper Derek Martin. 
Ryan Cox drew the foul inside the penalty box, setting up the goal. 
Notre Dame's victory against the 8-3-3 Pirates and their play against the best team in the-nation left the Irish confident halfway through the stretch and cer­
tain they would be tourna­out and told ourselves we clearly dominated the game Notre Dame hopes the ment bound. need to win this game and put both times," said Murphy. momentum of the past week 
But the confidence was the loss behind us," said "When your goalie is hot, it's will give them the necessary short-lived. Pridmore. always an asset, especially for push in the Big East show­
The Friars took Notre Dame They did just that, despite a a team in the playoffs." down. for a ride that cost them a slow start. The Eagles outshot 
loss and pushed them down in the Irish and dominated play the Big East standings. until the Irish rooted them­Providence scored a goal late selves in their game. 

Environmental Law 
in each period to upset the Steve Maio came off the 
Society
visiting Irish 2-1. bench for the Irish at midfield "We didn't play well as a to provide the spark that lit 
Notre Dame Law School 
team," commented Aris. "We the Irish flame. 
played as if we knew we were "Boston College was playing .going to win. By the time we a physical game," said Aris. 
The Environmental Law Society &the Federalist 
realized it and started to play "Steve's a _ 
Society are proud to welcome Gordon K. Durnil to
well. it was too late." physical player, and he Shane Walton scored the helped us to compete more." 
the Notre Dame Law School on Wednesday, 
first for the Irish a little over Aris' first goal came 35:25 
October 28, 1998, at 12:15 p.m. in the Courtroom. 
15 minutes into the game on into the game on assists from a crossing pass from Johnson and Ryan Cox on a 
Mr. Durnil served as United States Chairman of the 
Pridmore. But that was the header that sailed by Eagle 
International Joint Commission for four and one­
only time Notre Dame lit up goaltender Chris Hamblin. the scoreboard. Aris added his second in the 
half years. As Chairman, he achieved international 
Providence also struck in second half, this time off of a 
recognition for leadership in shared water 
the first half on a penalty Walton assist. 
resources. Mr. Durnil has also served as the
score by Michael Eisenhut Johnson scored his first with less than 10 minutes in goal of the season to wrap up 
Indiana Republican State Chairman, and on the 
the first half. the game's scoring just over a 
Executive Committee of the Republican National
The Friars put the game minute later at 77:32 on a away on a Andy Bussman pass from .Pridmore. 
Committee. Mr. Durnil is the author of The Making 
goal that resulted in a scram­Velho needed just two saves 
of a Conservative Environmentalist and Is America 
ble in front of Velho's goal. to record his fourth shutout of Velho stopped five shots in the season and the 25th of his 
Beyond Reform? The title of his presentation is 
the contest while Providence career. 
"Reflections of a Conservative Environmentalist."
dominated the entire game, The Irish relied on a strong outshooting the Irish 15-8. effort from him in both of the 
Mr. Durnil's books will be available for sale at the 
The Irish were unable to victories to stop formidable 
event and he will be happy to sign a copy. This 
defend the Providence style of attacking threats. 
presentation is also possible due to the support of 
play, which "Greg is always a major favors a long passing game part of our defense, and he 
the Law School. 
and a fight for 
the loose ball. "We like to 
The CANDAX McNair Program Announces the 1998-99
knock the ball arDund and 
FINAL RECRUITMENT MEETING cross once we 
WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI
reach the for­
ward third," , _________W;....e_a_d_lt_·n_e-'for Application: November 6)
11
said Johnson. "We let them 
FOR STUDENTS WHO ARE play their style 
INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES of knocking the 
AND WHO ARE EITHER
ball long." The rebound for the Irish 
FffiST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS
looped them back to their 
FROM LOW INCOME FAMILIES 
style of play in 
(ALL ETHNIC BACKGROUNDS)
a game that was extremely similar to the 
OR
win against Seton Hall. Aris scored two AFRICAN AMERICAN, HISPANIC more goals and 
NATIVE AMERICAN
Velho had another shutout as they 
ON WEDNESDAY, 0CTOBER281998
beat Boston College by a 3­
AT 6:00 PM (TO 7:00 PM) 0 score. 
IN ROOM 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY
"The added pressure was in the back of 
ALL ELIGIBLE STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 
people's minds, 
Refreshments after the Meeting
but we came 

It's Finally Here!!! 
Thursday, Have fun Oct. 29 while you7-9pm share your
Lafortune faith&make Ballroom new friends.
us 
Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study 

' • •t d• Come get your Emmaus small group started. Receive your small group candle & materials. 
•••and you re 1nv1 e • 
0MPUS 
IV11NI5TRY Enjoy an evening of FAITH, FUN, and FRIENDSHIP. 


It's a tough choice. But you can handle it. 
Commitment 
There's a tasty new way to "Have It Your Way""'at Burger King"' But which !<J choose? Our hot, crispy fries with your \hlue Meal? Or our tasty onion rings with your Value Meal? 

For nfore informtlfion on 
They both cost the same price and they're both unbelievably delicious. 
the Holy Cross one-year 
So maybe you should go for two Value Meals. Then you could get one ofeach. 
Candidate Program contact 
The Huddle-LaFortune Student Center 
Moreau Seminary Fr. Jim King. c.s< Notre Dame, IN 46556
~ 

(219) 631-6385 
BURGER 
http://www.nd.edu/-vocation
KING 
It just tastes better."' 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW
C 1998 Burger K1ng Corporalion. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Burger K1ng. 
Fr. Bill Wuck. C'.S.C'. 
Have II Your Way, II just tastes beller and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
Iuesday, October 27, 1998 
Dasso loses In·semis 
Special ro rhe Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore women's tennis player Michello Dasso lost her conso­lation semifinal match at tho Hiviem Women's All-American Championships at the Riviera Tennis Club, the second of four legs of the collegiate grand slam. 
The 17th-ranked Dasso lost 
3, 7-6 to Mississippi's 74th­rankc-d Celeste Frey on Saturday after· winning two matches in thtl consolation draw on Friday. 
Dasso lost to Duke's top­ser.ded Vanesstt Webb. tho 11)98 NCAA women's singles champion, in thP first round of thn main draw on Thursday. 
Use Observer Classifieds 
________J 

The Observer • SPORTS 
"Believe it or not," said Notre Dame failed to score on coach Poulin afterwards, "it's the power play was the sensa­
Hockey 
actually encouraging that we tional play of Ohio State goal didn't score on the power play tender Jeff Maund.
continued from page 24 tonight, because we have to As a freshman last season, 
of their five CCIIA games in learn to win without the Maund led his team to a 
which they did not score a power play goal.·· thrilling overtime win over 
goal on the power play. One of the reasons why top-ranked Michigan State in the NCAA Tournament, putting Ohio State in the Final Four. Maund ended up finish­ing a close sec­ond to Notre Dame's Mark Eaton for the CCHA's Rookie of the Year honors. 
On Friday, Maund proved to be his team's best penalty killer, especially in the third peri­od when he made a great save after the Irish had bro­ken in three-on­one into the offensive zone. 
The Irish out­shot the Buckeyes 33-16 The Observer/John Daily on the night. 
Following a successful road trip last week, the Irish skated their way to a 3-0 victory Maund only let in 
against ninth-ranked Ohio State on Friday night at the Joyce Center. two goals, howev­
er, and Ohio State was very much in the game until Ben Simon scored on the empty net with under a minute to play. 
The Irish had scored a power play goal in each of their first four CCI-lA games. Going into the game against Ohio State, the Irish had scored six power play goals in their last two games. 
They scored twice with the man advantage in a 5-3 win over Ferris State, and they scored an
Your Way Value Meal with crispy fries. 
OR 
amazing four power play goals against Lake 
Superior State the next night en route to a 4-3 win. 
Also of note last Weekend, fresh­men Sam Cornelius and Brett Henning each scored their 
HolyCross
Your Way Value Meal with tasty onion rings. 
Community Service 
page 19 
first career goals for the Irish in the third period against Ferris State. Cornelius's goal was the game winner, whiln Henning's goal 32 seconds later sealed the game for Notre Dame. 
The first disappointment, however, came on Saturday in the wake of their victory over Ohio State, when Notre Dame lost at Lawson Ice Arena to the Western Michigan Broncos by a score of 2-1. 
The Irish went scoreless on the power play again, going 0­for-4 with the man advantage. In their previous mneting this season, Notre Dame notched four power play goals in a 7-1 rout of the Broncos. 
After the loss Saturday, Urick said of the tnam 's power play unit, "Maybe we got a bit cocky. We stood around a bit, we weren't moving and get­ting open for each other. When we got opportunities. we didn't finish them. Not scoring on the power play cost us the game." 
An effeetivn power play is always an asset for a hockey team, but especially this sea­son, given the rash of penal­tics called in CCII;\ games thus far. 
In the game versus Ohio State alone, there were 14 power-play situations. Notre Dame went 0-for-8 and the Buckeyes went 0-for-6. 
"In this game, especially in this conference, there is going to be some physical play," said Poulin. 
"So much special teams takes the flow out of the game. Tonight there were constant penalties even though there was no real extracurricular activity [physi­cal play after the whistle! on either side." 
Another story for the Irish so far has been their depth. 
The Irish put four lines on the ice every night which arc capable of scoring. Coach Poulin has shown great confi­dence in his third and fourth units, giving them consider­able playing time, even on special teams. 
In the third period against the ninth-ranked Buckeyes, the Bagne-Dolder-Chipchase line played a large portion of the third period, including penalty-killing situations. 
"We have a very deep bench, they're killing penal­ties for us and everything," said Poulin. "They are certain­ly earning their ice time by playing very well right now." 
page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 27, 1998 
~ 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S 
BIOSPHERE 2 CENTER 
STUDY ABROAD . . . IN ARIZONA 

TucsJay, October 27, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• SWIMMING 
Swimmers improve their times 
By WES RICHARDSON Spom Wrircr 
Thn womnn's swim team improvnd its rnc:ord to 2-2 Friday with wins ovnr Army and Air Foren, following a loss to Miami I Fla) tlw wm1k bnfore. 
Tlw rnrm split tho wnnknnd by boating Army and falling to Air Forr.n. 
Frnshrnan KPlly llneking and junior r:o-eaptain Liz Barger captu rrHI tlw only individual wins for tlw Irish against Miami. I locking swam to a 5H. ') in llw I00-yard barkstrokn whilo Bargnr won llw I 00-yard buttnr.­flyin5lU2. 
Frnshrnan IIPathnr Mattingly kPpl a powPrful Miami diving squad from swnnping tlw thrnn­nwll~r ovnnt by placing third with IX7.35 points. 
A diflkult wnnk of mid-tm·ms· and narly-morning traveling wnrn factors that kept the womnn from swimming to their pot.nnlial against Miami. accord­ing to I locking. 
"Wr~ had to wake up at four in tlw morning thn day of tlw nwnt, so wn wnrn not as rnstml as wn could havn br~rm," said Ilncking. 
"Wo just wnrr~n't swimming up to our potrmtial at that nwnt, but it gavn us a good idm1 of what. to nxpnr:t from Miami at Big East IChampionshipsl," snnior Mnghan Ec:kstnin said. "We dnli­nitPiy could havn lwat thmn, and wr~ will at Big East." 
T lw worn n n r n mained in !;lorida during fall brnak, using tlw lntemalional Swimming Hall of hunn pool in Ft. LaudP.rdale as tlw vnnuo for a training r:amp. 
Upon rr~turning t.o Notrn 
Dame, thr~ Irish women easily dnfoated Army 144-44 and Air Foree 147-41. 
"After the Miami meet we wanted to rndeem ourselves, so we all turned in good times. It was especially good aftnr a hard wr~nk of training," Ileeking said. 
The men came out strong against Army, winning 136-101. They struggled late in the meet, hownvHr, and lost to Air Force ih a 139.5-97.5 decision. 
Lacking a divnr, thn Irish gave up :{2 points to both Air Foree and Army l'or the two diving nvnnts. 
"The l'irst four events were rock solid. We let them back into thn meet in the second hall', whieh is usually our strength." mrm's lwad coach Tim Welsh said. 
"We only have one chance to win a ment. and it depends on which team takes advantage ol' that chance, and we didn't do it." senior co-captain Chris Fugate said. 
Despite Uw loss, the Irish had many strong points, particularly in thn distance freestyle events. Sophomore .James Seott-Brownn scored wins in thn 200, 500, and I ,000 frnestyles. Freshman .Jonathan Pierce tied Scott­Browne for first in the 1,000, and thnn placed second in the 500. 
.Junior Scott Zumbaeh also turned in a first place finish with a season ·best 1:54.44 in the 200 individual mndley. 
Unlike the women, fall break did not see the men training togr~ther. Performances contin­ued to improve, however. as the Irish swam faster than they did three weeks ago against Stanford, according to Welsh. 
"There are a lot of bright spots, but also some areas that we neHd to improve on," Fugate said. "We have a little fine tun­ing to do and once we get that done, the team will be com­pletn." 
Welsh emphasizes that the weekend's focus was on defeat­ing Army, but also notices a rivalry forming betwr~en Notre Dame and Air Force. There were many elose races in both Friday's and last year's meet, whkh the Irish won. 
Boylan 
continued from page 24 
Senior captain Lindsay Troadwell playnd with Graham in high school in Austin, Texas. 
"One of her greatest attribut­es is that she always hustles," said Troadwoll. "What she doesn't have physically, she makr1s up for with hustle." 
Graham transferred to Notre Dame from the University of' Oregon, where she played in 21 matches last season. 
"Everything kind of' fell into place here, and it just seemed like the right place for me," said Graham. "Academically, it's a very strong school, and I liked Debbie IBrownJ a lot and trusted Lindsay Treadwell's opinion. 
The Irish arc lucky to have a back-up setter, as two years ago, they had only one setter and were forced to shift top player Jaimie Lee to the setter position when Carey May went down with an injury. 
~olleyball 
continued from page 24 
winning in three games with 
scores of 15-5, 15-2, and 15-6. 
"This game I thought was 
the< best for us over break," 
said head coach Debbie 
Brown. 
The Irish bested the Eagles 
in nearly every category, out­
hitting them by a huge margin 
of .395 to -.020, as well as 
coming out ahead in kills, 
assists, digs and blocks. 
Leading the attack for ND 
was Girton, who hit an out­
standing .526 in the match, 
recording a team-high 10 kills 
and 10 digs. 
"I think the weekend in 
Connecticut was a wake-up 
call, a reality check for me," 
said Girton. "I realized what ·a 
big role l need to play. l think 
the season's on an upswing. 
Everybody seems a lot happi­
er, and think there's more 
trust." 
Girton's play against the Eagles pushed her to become just the second Irish player this season, along with senior captain Lindsay Treadwell, to be named Big East Player of the Week. Girton shm·ed the honor with Georgetown's Kiran Gill. 
Also coming up big for the 
Irish were junior middle block­
er Mary Leffers, junior oppo­
site Emily Schiebout and fresh· 
man outside hitter Marcit) 
Bomhack. All three players hit 
over .400, played in each game 
of the match, and the three got 
eight, six and seven kills 
respectively. 
<Sophomore Michelle Graham 
filled in at setter for the 
injured Denise Boylan, and Graham put up 31 assists in the match. 
Notre Dame beat thH Providence Friars 14-16, 15-5, 15-9, and 17·15 on the strength of Boylan's assist....:; and career highs for Hornback in kills and hitting percentage, along with freshman Kristy Kreher's career highs in kills and digs. Girton and Treadwell also played tough matches. 
Bomhack had 22 kills and led the team in hitting at .435, with Kreher adding 14 kills and 15 digs. Treadwell led the team with 17 digs and 1 0 block assists. Girton imt up 22 kills for the Irish. 
Earlier in the break, the Irish were swept by the Florida Gators 15-2,15-9, and 15-5. The Gatm·s movnd to 18-2 on the season with the victory. 
Notre Dame was hurt by poor hitting (.089) and its inability to match Florida in kills and blocks. 
The Irish lost at North Carolina in four games despite career bests from Girton in kills with 19 and sophomore Adrienne Shimmel with 16 digs. Treadwell earned her eighth double-double of the season, with 15 kills and l4 digs. 
K«"'y factors for the Tar Heels were their <tdvantage in t(~atn hitting percentage and blocks over the Irish. With the win, they advanced to 19-4 on the season. 
The Irish beat a struggling Duke team in straight games 15-11, 15-12, and 15-12. 
Five Notre Dame players were in double digits for kills, putting the Irish ahead of the Blue Devils in kills overall. Tho Irish also held the edge in hit­ting pereentage and blocks. 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS E'THICS PROFESSOR JOSEPH MACIARIELLO HORTON PR9FESSOR OF MANAGEMENT AT THE DRUCKER CENTER, CLAREMONT GRADUATE SCHOOL Management SNstems at Lincoln Electuic:,.:. ,>:· ... ' ·. ·-: ACentuuN oJ·;:AlJflitN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27 AT 7:30PM JORDAN AUDITORIUM, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATJ,ON SPONSORED BY: Notre Dame Center for Ethics ami Religious SRB Values in Business Students for Responsible Businuss  

-
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 27, 1998 
• MEN's SOCCER 
Check tomorrow's Observe·r for coverage of 
-
Notre Dame men's and women's cross country
Soccer hits ups, downs 
Earn one credit while learning in a city ... continue the tradition 
The lJll"lb&n JPh.unge Semin&Jr 
,.. 
CENTER fOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
The Observer/Brett Hogan 
The men's soccer team went 2-2 over vacation, beating Seton Hall and Boston College but falling to Providence and No. 1 UConn. 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The mid-semester break was anything but relaxing for an Irish squad that faced four Big East teams in eight days, starting with the matchup against No. 1 Connecticut on October 16. 
The Irish set out on a roller coaster ride that saw them literally dip, then peak, and then dip and peak once again. 
A potential nightmare was avoided as coach Mike Berticelli's squad coasted to a finish that keeps them in the Big East playoff picture. 
Now at 4-4-2 with 10 points in the Big East, the seventh­place Irish are in position to make their third-straight conferenc;e tournament 
appearance. 
After a 2-0 loss to the 
Huskies, the Irish beat Seton 
Hall on the 18th, but fell on 
the road to Providence mid­
week before rebounding­
against the Eagles of Boston 
College on Sunday. 
"After the [first] weekend, 
we felt pretty good," said co­
captain Phil 
Murphy. "We knew that we 
could compete with anybody 
in the country. After this 
Sunday's win, we got back on 
track." 
The stretch began with the 
Irish at 2-2-2 in the confer­
ence and up against not only 
the best team in the Big East, 
but also the country. 
Despite being shut out for .the first time at home this 
see IRISH I page 18 
The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urbn setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past have included: 
Albany  New Orleans  Baltimore  Phoenix  
Atlanta  Memphis  Washington  Honolulu  
Brooklyn  Nashville  Los Angelos  Harlem  
Seattle  and many more sites  

As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. There will be an information session TONIGHT at 7:00 at the CSC and LeMans 
~Not I but the city teaches. -Socrates I 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, Contact the Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu/-ck/urbanplunge 
APPLICATION DEADLINE--FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 
OLIVIA GAN5 
Director: Tears to Triumph: American Victims Abortion Aftermath of Abortion in Women's Lives 
... .·A· 

Hesburgh Library Auditoriuin .. 
8:00pm, Tuesday, October 27, 1998 ND I SMC Right to l_jfe 


Tuesday, October 27, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 'Zl, 1998 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dylan Thomas, Jayne Kennedy, Simon LeBon, John Geese 
Happy Birthday: Get used to the constant changes going on around you and the rest of your life will be a piece of cake. You must take advan­tage of the opportunities surrounding you instead of dwelling oo the situa­tions that aren't quite as positive. You will only have yourself to blame if you don't put your creativity to good use this year. Your numbers: 4, 18, 22, 27, 31,49 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Your amiable attitude will enhance your reputation and bring you popularity 
BILL AMEND 
within the groups and organizations
FOXTROT 
you belong to. Use your intuitive 
You CAN'T BLoW AWA'(.' STUPID ENGLISH E.SSA'I' .' J '('ou CAN'T.' I ~ I 
CoME. BACI< HE.R£, "(oU 5 
I (/J DILBERT 
E 
THAT'S THE PLA.N. 
~ 
0
NOW I WILL PRETEND 
® 
TO LISTEN TO YOUR 
.. ~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 "Turandot" slave girl
1 Prop up 31 Moon-landing
6 Goddess 
vehicle
pictured in Egyptian tombs 32-de Triomphe
10 Fraud 14 Old aulas 
33 "1-Grow Up" ("Peler Pan"15 Short letter 
song) 16 Patriot Nathan 
34 Heads of state 11 Feeling really 
get-logethergood 
38 "It can't be!" 
20 Get-out-of-jail 39 Be in session 
money 40 Nothing
21 Hors d'oeuvre spread 41 Peas' holder 22 Song for Aida 42 Pennies: Abbr. 23 Chomped down 43 Creeks 24 ·--cost to 47 Slorm warnings you!" at sea 25 Novelist Waugh 49 Clinlon's #2 27 Batter's goal 50 Wrestler's place 29 Frigid 51 Site for a swing 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
34 Cable channel 49 Scottish Celts 56 Biblical priest 35 Support -=+=++'-l13Ciub-36"--lhe Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
season ..
_..=+:-'+::'-l 18 They expect the 
are available by touch-tone phone:
best 37 Radial, e.g. 
1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute).
19 Undulating 38Photo-­
Annual subscriplions are available for the
(media events) 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last me" 42 Musical sign 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
cyoq;I 
Jvlondays 11/2-12/7 5.·20-6:30 CRSCR.C Cfassroom $20 Sign ups are 7:45am, 10/29, (RS~ 
fitnef>f> t\af>f>ef> are t/2-prite after Ottober breaK. ~pate if> f>ti\\ avai\ab\e 
\A a\tiif  in man~  e,\a~~e.~.  \2-e.gi~te.r for the.f>e. e,\af>f>e.~ toda~!  For more Info. Contact: RecSports-1-6100  
www.nd.edurrecs ort  
'  

25 Like a three­
43 Bygone Russian 52 10 C-notes
7 --voce 
dollar-bill group 
53 Opposite of
(almost in a 
26 Cashew, e.g. 44 Electrical unit unter, in German
whisper) 
28 "Tickle me" doll 45 Female 
54 Can's 29 Anger attendant 
8 Spillane's "--­
composition 9 Visualize 32 Quantity: Abbr. 46 Cheap cigar 55 Notwithstanding BRATEA· 1o Beach 
Jury" 
33 Sly trick 48Sierra--that, briefly 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join the Observer staff. 
N liiRAIINIING 
IF II 11/6, 113, QO ·4:00"'5:00 C ClASSROOM\ $110 SIGN UPS ARE 7:45AM. I0/29. RSRC 
your energy into behind-the-scenes activity where you can accomplish the most. Don't allow your emotions to influence career decisions. Co­workers are likely to anger you with innuendoes or gossip. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Invest­ments can be lucrative. Business part­nerships will be to your advantage and your ideas will be original, allow­ing you to promote your intentions by talking to those in high positions. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can get a lot accomplished at home today. Concentrate on going through personal belongings that you no longer use. Family activities of an intellectual nature will benefit all involved. 0000 
SAGmARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pleasure trips will be enjoyable. VISit with distant friends or relatives. En­joy getting outdoors and being involved in sports activities. You can pick up sound advice from someone you respect. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your money into home improve­ment projects for best results. Be secretive about your finances today. Someone may try to talk you into a get-rich-quick scheme that will back­fire.OOO 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be in love with life today. Your attitude will be positive and your happiness obvious to others. Try not to jump to conclusions, however. Just take one step at a time. 000 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): Your intuition will lead you in the right direction. Take care of home-improve­ment projects and real estate matters. Your ideas will be well-planned and easily instigated. 0000 
.. 
• 
52 Rikki-tikki-­(Kipling mongoose) 
53 Capable of 
54 Little that's visible 
57 Poker call 
58 Mending site 
59 Louis XIV, 
1643-1715 60 Hawaii's state bird 61 Remove from office 62 Dunne of "I Remember Mama" 
DOWN 
1 Thick-trunked tropical tree 2 Italian soprano Scotto 3 Clarinetist Shaw and others 4 Refrigerate 5 One of Kreskin's claims &Wee one 
i 
~.. ~ 
Ul. 
. , 
... 
.., 
~ 
~ 
:::> 
~ 
0 0.
.,.. 
~ 
WILL '(oU SToP FLoPPINC:, ARoUND AND LISTEN To ME?! 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THIS 15 ANOTHER SITUATION WI-IERE. At"\5IGUITY WOULD 
senses when dealing with others. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Much can be accomplished if you work quietly behind tlie scenes. Don't get involved in idle chatler with co­workers. You can make financial gains if you are careful about what you say to whom. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Travel will be enticing you. New and excit­ing adventures will unfold if you take sudden trips. Mix business with plea­sure if possible. You can write beauti­ful love letters today. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make financial gains if you invest properly. Take care of legal documen­tation and personal paperwork. Don't let your emotions rule your decisions. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Relation­ships will develop on trips. Your emo­tional reaction will depend on your partner. You will be enticed by some­one who can provide both mental and physical stimulation. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Put 
... 

• Men's soccer team 
• NBA owners and 
goes 2-2 during break, 
players moved nearer 
aims for Big East 
to an agreement in dis­
Tournament. 
cussions Monday. 
PORTS 
p.22 
p.J4 
O THE 
page 24 Tuesday, October 27, I 998 
BSERVER 

• VOllEYBALL 
Netters win three over break but lose Boylan 
Girton named 
Boylan out up to three weeks 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Graham did well as Boylan's
co-Big East 
Sports Writer mplaeement in her first earner start at Notre Dame SundayPlayer of Week The Notre Dame volleyball against Boston College. The team will be without star setter Irish beat the Eagles in throe
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Denise Boylan this week. straight games, with Graham
Sports Writer 
Boylan. a sophomore, tore recording 31 assists. ligaments in her right elbow "She did awesome," said
The Irish volleyball team 
Saturday when she was hit with head coach Debbie Brown. "Itbrought home three victories from the ball in a blocking drill in just shows she has such poise.
-. 
their five matches over fall break, with the play of sophomore out­practice. She distributed the ball well, 
Trainers said Boylan will like­and the team got better as theside hitter Christi Girton earning ly be out seven to 10 days, but match Wf~nt on."
her co-Big East Player of the it may be up to three weeks "The team's been realWeek. 
with rehabilitation. When the responsive and real helpful,"During the time off from school, cast is removed in four to live said Graham. "They're someNotre Dame tallied Big East victo­days, they will be able to make pretty big shoes to fillries at home over Providence and a more accurate prediction [Boylan's]." but I think as aBoston College and a non-confer­about the length of recovery. team we'll be able to pullence road victory against the "I just hope that I can get together."
Duke Blue Devils. The Irish fell on 
back on the court soon and The ability of the Irish to
the road to eighth-ranked Florida help my team," said Boylan. adjust to playing with a difl'er­and the No. 24 North Carolina The loss of Boylan will be sig­ent setter is key, as Boylan hasTar heels. 
nificant for the Irish, as she is been the primary setter for theTheir record now stands within one of the top young setters in team the past two seasons.
shooting distance of .500 overall the country. She trained with Another factor in the team'sat 9-10, and a ncar-perfect 5-1 in the USA Volleyball Program success without Boylan is thethe Big East. 
this summer. As a freshman, height difTf)rential between theThe Irish dominated Sunday's Boylan was named first team two players, as Boylan is 6'1"match against Boston College, 
The Observer/John Daily 
Denise Boylan, shown here going up for a set, will miss up to three 
see VOLLEYBALL I page21 
weeks of playing time with torn ligaments in her elbow. 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
Soccer falls to Seton Hall in OT 
all-district and second team all­and Graham is only 5'8". Big East. Sophomore transfer Michelle see BOYLAN I page 21 
• HOCKEY 
leers fall to Western Michigan in first loss 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sports Editor 
Fifth-ranked Notre Dame knew it as going to play a lot of soccer over the break, but didn't expect to play as much as it did. 
The Irish endured three con­secutive overtime games, but emerged with a disappointing 2-1-1 record in their four games. 
"It was tough playing so many overtimes, but you can't blame 
• 
the loss on that," sophomore midfielder Anne Makinen said. 
On October 16, Notre Dame and Connecticut battled in the marquis matchup of the Big East. The two teams entered the game unbeaten in confer­ence play and the game lived up to all its expectations. 
After 120 minutes of play, the game ended in a 1-1 tie, snap­ping the Irish's 36-game confer­ence winning streak. 
Jenny Heft scored her 18th goal of the season just seven minutes into the contest when her shot ricocheted off the left post and into the right corner of the net. However, the Irish were held scoreless for the rest of the game, despite tallying 29 shots, including seven in the overtime period and three that hit the post. 
UConn had 18 shots on the afternoon. Freshman sensation Mary-Frances Monroe made one of those shots count, as she 
see SOCCER I page14 
By TED BASSANI Sports Writer 
Following up on two con­secutive road wins the week­end before, the Irish put their undefeated conference record on the line against the ninth­ranked Ohio State Buckeyes last Friday night at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame came away with a convincing 3-0 victory over a Buckeye team which played in the Final Four last March in Boston's Fleet Center. 
Notre Dame goal tender Forrest Karr notched his first career shutout against Ohio State by stopping all 16 Buckeye shots. 
"Steady is the best word to describe Forrest right now," said head coach Dave Poulin. "Sometimes it's hard to stay in the game when you only face sixteen shots like he did, but he stayed focused and came up with the big saves when he had to." 
Aside from his shutout of the Buckeyes on Friday night, Forrest Karr has been quite the story for this team so far this season. His teammates and coaches constantly use the word "steady" to describe his play. Karr is not flashy like Matt Eisler had been at times for the Irish in years past, but that is mostly a credit to how well he posi­tions himself; he is rarely if ever out of position, necessi­tating an acrobatic save. 
A question mark for the Irish entering this season was how Karr would handle the transition from being a back­up to being the starting goal tender. 
But, as team captain Brian Urick put it after the Ohio State win, "Forrest seems like a veteran in the starting role, the way he deals 
with the pressure. He never seems to get rattled, he's cool and calm back there. It's usu­ally not anything spectacular. but that's because he plays his angles so welL" 
The Irish got the jump on the Buckeyes quickly when freshman David Inman netted his third goal of this young season just after the game was a minute old, capitalizing on the great passes by line mates Dan Carlson and Joe Dusbabek. Inman's goal turned out to be the game­winner for the Irish. 
In the team's six wins this season, six different players have netted game-winning goals. 
Interestingly for the Irish, they did not score a power play goal against the Buckeyes. This was the first 
see HOCKEY I page 19 

The Observer/Brett Hogan 
Irish soccer player Shannon Boxx goes down to the ground after firing a shot on goal.
• 
-
vs Baylor vs. West Virginia Sarurday, 2:30 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Cross Counrry 
·~ 
at Big East Championship 
ATA 
in Boston 
vs. Wisconsin vs. Oral Roberts Friday, 10:30 a.m. 
~ Friday, 5 p.m. Thursday, 7 p.m. GLANCE 





