
Friday, March 20, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 110 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT RY'S 
'Collective' becomes part of Women's Month 
By ALLISON KOENIG Associate News Editor 
The Feminist Collective. the nflw Saint Mary's College stu­dent group founded by former members of The Alliance, held its first official meeting last night. 
The group met in the Women's Resource Center for a brief introductory session and then several members proceed­ed to participate in the "Take Baek the Night Walk," a Student Academic Council-sponsored activity to remem­ber rape victims as part of the Women's Month activities on campus. 
"We wanted to definitely hold a meeting this week," said Kelly Curtis, a member of the Feminist Collective. "We'll have longer and more formal ones in the future. It's kind of hectic right now with Women's Month activities going on." 
So far, College president Marilou Eldred has not released an official statement about the Board of Governance's approval of the Feminist Collective. 
According to student govern­ment constitution, Eldred is the only administrator with the power to deny a BOG approved club that official status. She exercised that power a few weeks ago when she denied The Alliance club status, which they had achieved one year ago. 
College president emeritus William Hickey had placed The Alliance' on official hiatus, citing the need for a more investiga-

FRIDAY FEATURE 
tive probe into campus climate, the group's constitution, and the implications of the Catholic Church in allowing a student group to independently explore issues of sexuality. 
Hickey passed the deferment, and the ultimate decision on the fate of The Alliance, to incoming the president, Eldred. She released her decision three weeks ago in a letter addressed to the entire Saint Mary's com­munity, which explained her decision to deny the club's exis­tence on campus. 
Curtis was pleased with the Feminist Collective's first meet­ing. "There was a good turnout. People seemed excited and enthused," she said. 
Curtis added that there were numerous new students present at the meeting, people who had not previously been active with The Alliance's plight to be rec­ognized. 
The Feminist Collective's sec­ond meeting will take place next Wednesday at 9:30 p.m. in the Women's Center. A stan­
see COLLECTIVE I page 4 


Observer photos by Dan Cichalski 
T
he facade of the Lorraine Motel remains mostly intact (above), with the entrance to the National Civil Rights Museum to the left. Below, a wreath marks the spot on the balcony where Martin Luther King was shot April 4, 1968, after leaving room 306 to head to dinner. 
•


survives In• 
Memphis 

By DAN CICHALSKI Senior Staff Writer 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
O
n his final day, just before an assassin's bullet 
struck Martin Luther King Jr. on the balcony of 
Memphis's Lorraine Motel, America's leading civil rights figure joined those staying with him in ... a pillow fight. 
While most people growing up in America have learned about the struggle King led for blacks in the 1950s and '60s. and of his speech in Washington and his march to Montgomery, the National Civil Rights Museum in this Tennessee Mississippi River city provides a comprehen­sive, somewhat interactive look at the entire movement, dating all the way back to Pilgrim days. 
On April 4, the museum will commemorate the 30th anniversary of King's assassination. A wreath hangs from the balcony outside room 306, near the spot where King fell after being hit by the bullet fired from a rooming house across the street. Two vintage cars sit beneath the rooms. and most of the motel's exerior has been pre­served -right down to the teal doors of each room. 
The 1 0,000-square-foot museum opened Sept. 28, 1991, in the building that was once the motel where King spent his last few days. The motel -originally the Windsor Hotel when it was built in 1925 -was scheduled for fore­closure in 1982, but a local nonprofit group saved the building for conversion into the museum. 

Varsity sports takin;g time in 'free-Illay' RSRC 
By DAVID FREDDOSO Senior Staff Write~ 
The staff of the new Rolfs Sports Recreation Center does reserve sections of its facilities for varsity practices, contrary to students' belief that the facility promised unrestricted 
student use. .._; =-·'llt-'i•JII University officials report­edly built the Rolfs Center in 
• "New center part to alleviate the problem 
yields more of "bumping" club teams 
hassle than rec-and students from the Joyce 
rearion" p.ll Center and Loftus so that ....._______, varsity sports ean practice there, according to an earlier article in The Observer. 
"Free-play in the Joyce Center is difficult because there is no regular schedule, and it is hard to know what is available when. The Rolfs Center will put an emphasis on free­play," said director of RecServices Sally Derengoski in the Feb. 13 issue of The Observer. 
Now, the women's volleyball team blocks off one basketball court for its practices in the Rolfs Center most afternoons since the facility opened. 
"The building is still 99.9 percent recre­ational," Derengoski said in response to the students' percE:ption that Rolfs should be campus's top-flite facility for students only. 
"[Space for varsity practice) was in fact part of the plan from the very beginning," Derengoski said, reporting that the volleyball team has space reserved for three hours in the afternoon. 
"The agreement was that they'd be done by 6:30p.m.," she said. 
The concession of some space to the volley­ball team made the athletic department more willing to give more money for the project, Derengoski said. 
"We have gotten another court which we might not have gotten," she said, adding that the court floors in the Rolfs Center are top-of­the-line, and that such floors might not have been affordable had it not been for the agree­ment. 
Regardless, the Rolfs Center has contin­ued to attract many students, faculty, and staff. 
"We've been averaging about 1,500 people per day," Derengoski reported. 
She added tha1t the center will try in future months to be very responsive to the particu­lar needs of its clientele. 
"We have a turnstile that ties into the 
see RSRC/ page 4 


• INSIDE COLUMN 

Oh, What a Sacrifice 
I am not going to cat 

meat today. 
This is an amazing state­

ment, I know. It is Friday, 
it is L1mt, and all we good 
Dorners shun the flesh of 
animals as representation 
of our holiness and sacri­
fice and utter smallness 
in the eyes of God. 
Plus, I really have no 

choice if I eat in the din­
ing hall. The ritual n~placmnent of the imitation 
bacon bits with half-baked cheese sticks makes 
the point abundantly dear: This is a Catholic 
University. There is no way Notre Dame will be 
a part of my heathen appetite for beef during 
the Lenten season. I'm surprised the adminis­
tration hasn't called Wollin's and ordered them 
to rmnove meat from the menu. 
We are good Catholics and we sacrifice eating 

meat on Fridays. But I wonder how many of us 
would even remember that it was Lent if we 
wen~ not l'acnd with endless rows of poached 
salmon each and every Friday. I wonder how 
many of us are eating those cheese sandwiches 
not because we see the beauty in the sacrifice 
of meat during Lfmt, but because there is no 
other choice ollered to us. 
I wonder where tho sacrifice is. 
Thnre is a big dillerence between giving up 

something beeause you want to and giving up 
something because you have to. Not eating 
nwat becausn there is no other alternative is 
really easy; you eomplain a little and then 
begrudgingly heap another potato wedge on 
your Styrofoam plate. You may even feel guilty 
that you did not remember it was Lent until 
lunchtime and bypass the pepperoni on you 
Papa John's later on in the day, thinking about 
what Sister Mary Katherine would have done to 
you in grade school if she had found out that 
you had gone against the rules of Lent (insert 
images of dark corners and wooden paddles 
hem). 
Notre Dame has subtlety forced Catholicism 

on all of us by not giving us tlw choice to eat 
meat on Fridays. To my knowledge, ours is the 
only major Catholic school that practices this; 
Boston College, Georgetown and even Saint 
Mary's oll'er at least a small amount of the evil 
flesh as a dining option during Lent. 
Thern is nothing wrong with the conscious 

dedsion to bypass the chicken nuggets because 
you truly believe in the sacrifice you are mak­
ing. But when there is no other choice, when 
tim only reason you are making this sacrifice is 
bm:ause you are being forced to do so, the 
essential purpose b1~hind the sacrifice is lost. 
College is a time in which we are supposed to 

figure out our own beliefs, to find what sort of 
spirituality is right for us. But every Friday, 
Notre Dame is treating us likn parochial school 
fourth-graders who might bn spanked if caught 
with a turkey sandwich. That fourth-grader 
might not bP mature enough to understand 
what his or her sacrifice is for. but college stu­
dcmts are capable of making that decision for 
themselves. 
Today when you am abstaining from meat, 

ask yourself why. Is it tradition? Guilt'? What 
you arn c~xpectl~d to do? Or is it a tnw s<u:rifiee, 
something that you have thought about and 
that has purpose and meaning to you as an 
individual and as a Christian. 
Telling someone you are making a sacrifice 

because you have to or because there is no 
other option is a weak answer. 
!\ strong sacrifice is one you make yourself. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TooAY's STAFF 
News Scene Laura Perelle Kristi Klirsch Tim Logan Sarah Dylag 
Tom Enright Graphics 
Sports Dave Piening Allison Krilla Production Viewpoint Mark DeBoy 
Colleen Gaughen Lab Tech 

U.S. denies visas to II Cubans for academic conference 
BERKELEY, Calif. D >,~,,,; .. ·••J Berkeley Mayor Shirlny Dean and 
~,£;~:~~~~r~~;~::~!!~nf~; D .'"rl! ey ~!~~~~:~Ir:;~~::~,~~~~:~~(::~~l:;l~r~d~
Department's refusal to grant visas University of Caltforttia speakers into the country. to 11 of the featured guests. Jeff Mackler, a conference orga-
The conference, scheduled to take convince Secretary of State Madeline nizer, said yestnrday that at lnast 11 plaee Wednesday through Saturday, Albright to make an exception in this Cubans are going to speak at the is designed to present academics and case. conference and six of tho pnoplo who professionals from both countries an "To selectively deny visas to some were denied entrancn into thn coun­opportunity to discuss issues that of the invited speakers on the basis try are expected to speak on video. Cuba currently faces, including race outlined above is to impose censor-"The conferPnce, of course, has relations, technology and the free-ship, inhibit free speech and free been dealt a blow, but not a fatal dom of politieal thought. flow of information and deter free one," he said. 
A 1985 policy imposed by then-educational exchange," stated a let-But Ling-Chi Wang, chair of thn President Ronald Heagan bans offi-ter sent to Albright and signed by ethnic studies departm1~nt and an cials in the Cuban government and U.S. Heprnsentative Esteban Torres organizer for the confernnc1~. said thn members of the Cuban National Party and 20 other members of Congress prnrecorded videotapns will take from entering the country. from California. away the main ingredinnt of thP 
When event organizers announced "Let us be an example to Cuba by "Dialogue with ·Cuba" confPrnncl~. that 11 Cubans could not enter the permitting a variety of opinions with-Now scholars will not be abln to havn country because of the 1985 travel in our borders. Let our actions a dialogue with some of the noted ban, several government officials embody the American belief in free-speakers. including Cuban Olympic became outraged and attempted to dom of speech," the letter said. gold medallist Alberto Juanlorena. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Students protest controversial speech 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

More than 500 students fought their way into the Michigan League last night to hear anti-affirmative action leader Ward Connerly speak. The crowd filled the ballroom to capacity, leaving another 100 students barricaded outside chanting, "Let us in." Although the speech was widely publi­cized as an opportunity for Connerly, who was instrumental in eliminating affirmative action in the state of California through Proposition 209, to state his position on affirmative action, the evening turned into a heated debate between Connerly and the audience. Connerly began by asking the audience to respect his viewpoint in order to allow for a con­structive dialogue. He spoke of the hardships he endured as a black man growing up in Mississippi and he described the path he took to become one of the main opponents of what he calls "racial preferences ... I ask myself three questions: How long should I be angry, at whom do I direct that anger and, most importantly, what good does that do me?" The majority of the crowd jeered Connerly during the speech, attacking him for his support of a movement they said will continue to resegregate the nation. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA ~ los ANGElES Dalai Lama's sister visits UCLA 
LOS ANGELES, Calif 

She is a soft-spoken woman with a slight British accent, who is called "Arna La" (mother) by thousands of Tibetan children. Jetsun Perna, a sister of the Dalai Lama, serves as a mother figure to the Tibetan people both in the country and in exile. Perna lectured at UCLA twice this week to raise funds for the education of Tibetan children in exile and for Tibetan rights. Hinchon Dharlo, president of the Tibet Fund, said the group wanted to promote awareness of Tibetan issues. "Mrs. Pema is known to six million Tibetan people, not because she is exalted as the Dalai Lama's sister but because of her work and dedication serving children for the last 35 years," Dharlo said. Pema's tirst lecture was held during a dinner Tuesday with a requested $100 minimum donation. Wednesday she delivered a free lecture to the public. 
• COlORADO UNIVERSITY 
Hoops manager arrested for theft 
BOULDEH, Colo. 
A Colorado University athletic official was arrested on theft charges Monday for reportedly turning in fraudulent receipts in exchange for cash. Michanl Sykes, the travel coordinator for the men's basketball team, admitted to CU police in both taped and written confessions that he had altered receipts to indicate more money than he actually spent and turned them into the athletic businnss ollice. In three transactions over a two-month pnriod, Sykes said lw gained $1,342.07, according to CU police. Sykes told polic1~ he did these things because he needed money. According to the police report, Sykes "freely admitted" that on Jan. 9 he submitted a voucher for a $200 tip to a charter bus driver that was never given lie also admittnd that on Fnb. 5 lw turned in a receipt for an excess-baggage eharg1~ that lw had changed to read $4:~0 instead of $130. CU polic1~ Sargeant Brett Brough said Sykes turned himsnlf in to the force. Sykes was not charged with fraud bncausn "it would be too hard to prove." Brough said there must bn proof that the pnrson committing the thnft intnntionally tried to hide it from ollicials to prove fraud. 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Ex-student sentenced in stabbing 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
A judge sentenced a former MSU student to a two-to 10­year prison term Wednesday for brutally stabbing com­munication graduate student Akiko Oyaizu during a domestic dispute at her Spartan Village apartmnnl .lirapat Praepetch, a former computer science freshman, also faces deportation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service back to his native Thailand after lw finishes his sentence. Oyaizu, who was hospitalized in critical condi­tion after the Oct. 27 stabbing but has sinen rm:overed, said she is satisfied with the sentence. "I don't eare how long he's going to be in prison," she said after thn hearing. "I care how he takes rnsponsibility for his actions." Praepetch apologized for the attack during his sontencing at Ingham County Circuit Court. Aceording to the MSU Hegistrar's Ollice, he is no longnr a student. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

L 
I 
/ / 
Tuesday . ~'-~ 35 24 
y-··l,.r··~ ..,;..... 'v 

Albany  40  32  Detroit  40  28  Richmond  67  47  
Billings  50  28  Fargo  38  18  St. Louis  40  31  
Boston  46  35  Memphis  48  38  St. Paul  39  18  
Charlotte  69  45  Miami  84  65  Santa Fe  56  26  
Dayton  47  34  Newark  51  38  Seattle  62  44  

Meg Kroener 

( 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
4,Q,~A.88 {) ~ u 
exccp1 during exam and vacation p~riods. Th~ Obs~rver is a m~mber of 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
rh~ AliJ.Ol.:io&tcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
VIB Assoc1at8d Prsss GraphicsNet 

Friday, March 20, 1998 

Pope plans to visit Nigeria 
VATICAN CITY 

Pop1~ .John Paul II will be tf~sting both his 
lwalth and his powers to persuade when he 
makP.s a three-day visit beginning Saturday to 
Nigeria, a country in the grip of military rule. 
Homan Catholic bishops in the West African 
country are hoping the pope will prod 
NigP.rian leadp,rs into rp,leasing political pris­
oni1rs -as Cuba did after his historic visit in 
January-and encourage reconciliation 
among opposing groups. Activists hope he will 
simply push for democracy and an end to mili­
tary rule. Johh Paul will touch on all those 
thnmes during the visit, which includes a 
meeting with General Sani Abacha, the presi­
dent who camp, to power in a 1993 military 
coup. The pope leaves Saturday and faces a 
busy sdwdule with stops in Ahuja, the capital. 
the eastern city of Enugu and the southern city 
of Onitsha, whp,rn he will beatify a Nigerian 
priest. 
Iraqi pilgrims cancel plans 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 

Thousands of Iraqis scrapped their plans for 
an Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca on Thursday, 
dismayed by news that Baghdad and the 
United Nations could not agree on funding for 
their journey. Zakia Noori. 55, broke into 
tears after hearing that money for the pilgrim­
age, or ha.ij. was not available. "I am an old 
woman and can never afford to make it to 
Mecca on my own," she said. The hajj is one of 
Islam's five main pillars of faith and every 
Muslim who is able to is expected to make the 
pilgrimage. This year, 22,000 Iraqis applied to 
their government to make the trip. Iraq had 
wanted $44 million from the sale of its oil 
under a tightly monitored oil-for-food deal 
transferred directly to its central bank to fund 
the pilgrimage. The U.N. sanctions committee 
refused. 
Rwanda to try war criminals 
BYUMBA. Hwanda 

Hwanda's justice system. burdened with 
125,000 suspects for more than 500,000 
killings. has begun mass trials to accelerate 
efTorlo; to punish those responsible for the 1994 
genocide. A trial of 51 suspects in the north­
eastern Byumba court is the first of its scale in 
Hwanda and, if successful. could change the 
pace for trying the former Hutu soldiers, militi­
amen and ordinary civilians awaiting trial in 
overcrowded prisons. The defendants are 
accused of participating in the three-month 
slaughter of more than 500,000 Tutsis and 
moderate llutus sponsored by the former Hutu 
government. The killings ended when Tutsi 
soldiers won power in Rwanda in July 1994. "I 
think it is a solution for justice in Rwanda 
b1~cause it's not possible with 125,000 people 
lin prison! to try each person separately," said 
Daniel Weber of Lawyers Without Borders, an 
international organization that provided nearly 
all the defendanl'i with lawyers. 
S&P 500: 

Composite 1089.74 Volume: +27.65 +4.22 591,000,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
nlMI!tliS): II!'KrB '.lhCHAI:Sl:ll; SGAII:S I!BICt; 
EXODUS COMM INC. EXOS 84.17 12.63 27.625 MEDI-IECT COR!' ME!lj 62.96 1.063 2.75 ROCKY MTN INF-WT RMIIW 62.17 0.712 1.875 SECTOR COMM INC. SH.."T 48.84 1.313 4.000 INTELLIGENT MEIJ IMil 47.22 1.063 3.3125 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
ALTEON INC. AI.TN 50.00 4.938 4.938 AMER FIRST !'REI' 2 I'F 22.2H 2.813 9.813 COMPLETE WEI.l.NESS CMWI. 20.00 o.soo 2.000 1!'-:NOPET BRANDS INBCC 19.44 0.438 1.81] MARGO NURSERY MRGO 17.50 0.438 2.063 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 3 




Serbia removes police from lKosovo 
AssOCIATED PRESS 
PRISTINA, Yugoslavia 
President Slobodan Milosevic made a last-minute bid Thursday to avoid new international sanctions, agreeing to pull back special police in Kosovo even as violence at rival ethnic rallies added to turbulence in the troubled province. 
Despite the potential breakthrough, prospects for stability in Kosovo seemed rockier than ever. Separate throngs of Albanians and Serbs demonstrated in the provincial capital, Pristina. An Albanian protest erupted in brawling between the two sides. 
"The situation is getting more tense and . . . is on the verge of escalation," warned Albin Kurti, an Albanian stu­dent leader and rally organizer. 
More than 80 people have died in the southern Serbian province this month in a Serb crackdown aimed at increasingly violent ethnic Albanian militants. Serbia is the larger of two republics that make up the remainder of Yugoslavia. 
Milosevic, who has been blamed by world powers for the unrest, made his concession on the day of a deadline established for Yugoslavia to with­draw forces from Kosovo's besieged Drenica region or face toughened sanctions. 
The United States and five European countries that issued the ultimatum ­the so-called Contact Group -are expected to meet Friday in Brussels, Belgium, to debate whether new penalties should be imposed. 
U.N. Security Council diplomats, AFP Photo speaking on condition of anonymity, 
A
n elderly Albanian demonstrator shouts as he joins a crowd estimated at more than 
said Thursday that the 15 council 
20,000 in the streets of Pristina, Kosovo, in Yugoslavia on Thursday to protest policiesmembers agreed to delay any decision of the Serbian government and its police action against the ethnic Albanian community. 
on sanctions until after the Contact Group meets. Vedrine, announced Milosevic's agree­Ethnic Albanian leaders, set on inde­
But U.S. Ambassador Bill Richardson ment after talks with him in Belgrade. pendence, greeted the development said council members are continuing to They portrayed the move as a strong cautiously, especially since Milosevic look for ways to pressure Belgrade if it step toward breaking the diplomatic acknowledged that not all special police fails to fulfill its promises. impasse -a position also taken by had been pulled back. 
"We believe an international arms Russia, a staunch Yugoslav ally. Fehmi Agani, an aide to ethnic embargo is the right way to go," But the top U.S. envoy for the Albanian leader Ibrahim Rugova, said Richardson said. "We believe the Balkans, Robert Gelbard, was unim­he was encouraged. But he said unre­Security Council should take strong pressed. Speaking in neighboring solved issues remain, including a con­action to put pressure on Belgrade." Macedonia, he said the agreement tinuing blockade on some Kosovo vil­
The German and French foreign min­"falls quite short of what we feel is nec­lages and whether international media­isters, Klaus Kinkel and Hubert essary" to start a serious dialogue. tors can attend the talks. 
Congress fails.tp s sp~,~ial tax cuts. 
AssOCIATED PRFss tion bill that{~b~ld numh~~f~f amen~ments, offer amendments. 
the interest rate. banks · some deiiling with education "It's really a sad day for 
WASHINGTON allowed to charge on tollege and $o:We with oth~r mat-education when we can't 
Senate Democrats blocked student loans. ters; . . e~r that h~ve a g?od debate about a Republican ~ffort The Ed on . e:fu9 , _ _.... have issues of greatimportance Thursday to give a tax hreak Workforce Co _._. _ttee" b blof;ked a debate. on the to this country and especial-to parents who send their the action, ifapproved bY measl.ll'e before, wantto use ly to the students of children to private or reli­the House and Senate; a string of amendments to America,'' the Democratic gious schools. would keep 1~11de~sf · bloc]\;finl);laction. , . leader, · Senator Tom 
. President Clinton had quitting the pr()gram, ~'F9r six days~~· said DaHchle ofS()uth Dakota, threatened to veto the GOP bill, which ··also covets · Majority Leader. Trent Lott, told: reporters. legislation, but backers had teacher training and other· "some members of this body Clinton has said he would hoped to win over college aid, was approved have been standing at the vet1) the Republican bilL It Democrats by adding.sweet­38..3. .__ .•. ____ .·. _._. .ir _schoo use door barring would expand savings eners, includlng · some Senate _ ftepublicaJ;l's . ·• thew _. t a quality educa-·· accounts created last year tO money for school construc­argued that their savhigs tion for the children who encourage savings for col­tion and benefits for state measure would spread ben~ quite often need it the leg'e so that parents could prepaid tuition plans and efits equally between pat~ most." ··· include private and religious employer-paid tuition. ents sending~j:leit thil · · elementary and high 
Still, no Pemocratsjoined to p\lhlie schl)ols ~n.:t schools. · in the 55~44 vote Thtirsday using the mon.ey·for private The maximum yearly sav­to end a Democratic fili­or :religious school tuition. · ings would grow from $500 buster. Sixty votes.were Opponents cmmtered t!Jat to $2,000, a,nd the monf;ly needed. The two pi).rties th~ bill wowd ~~nefit c~Uld be us~d ~or any ..sc}lool were. discussing ways th end average famU:Y. very expenses, starting With the impasse next week. · whlle keeping $1.6 billion kindergarten, including 
A House committee, lost federal taxes over computers, books, after-meanwhile, approved a years from public . .. school remedial instruction comproll1ise highf)r ~duca-Democra. and. tuitio& 
~=:=,:,: ·:·::

. . ·. %:=~::''" ..: ~·=·,~:=:·:# 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Collective 
continued from page I 
dard meeting time has not yet bem1 nstablished. 
ThP "Take Back the Night Walk," followPd by an informal eonePrt by campus band llotel l'rati in Dalloway's, was eoordi­natnd by the Student Aeademie Co u n ei I·s W o nw n ' s M o n t h Committ(~e. who is overseeing 
numProus  other  artivitiPs  
throughout  thP  month  of  
Mard1.  

"Tiw rommiltPn has workPd fPally hard to COV('I" a Variety or issups !during tiH• monlhf." 

said SAC representative and Women's Month committee member Cicely Campo. "From addressing health issues, to showcasing cultural and artis­tic talents, the month is really bringing women's talent to the forefront." 
Anne Werring, who is also on the SAC Women's Month com­mittee, cited the appropriate­ness of the establishment of the Feminist Collective during Womnn's Month. "It's a step forward in thn Saint Mary's Community," she said. "It's addml [to Women's Monthf and our efforts to app(Htl to all aspects or hning wonwn at a women's college." 
• CLARIFICATION 

In an artide about the resignation of Father David Garrick in WednPsdav's Observer, Father John Jenkins was dnscribed as rei"using to eomment on tlw issU(l. 
In t·cality, Jenkins wantml to comment but because of the lute hour and complexity of the issue, he asked that he be able to rP.spond in written format the following day. His statement will appear in an article on Monday. 
The Obsert,er regrets the error. 

RSRC 
continued from page 1 
University's database, "she said. The HeeSports staff is able to record when students. facul­ty, and staff are each using the facilities the most. "That will help us decide what kind of music (to play) and policies we should enact. 

"It's so much fun to see how the students have embraced this facility," she said. 
Working out ... 


I A Sorin College resident practices his ping-pong forehand yesterday. 

Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 


Ir--------, r------....,
One week of I Or 1 Ten Tanning • 1Unlimited Tanning 1 
: Bed Sessions ~ 
I only $15 I -*walk in only I I only $35 I
L ________.J 

L--------..1
University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near ~Uarl 
272-7653 256-9656 
.. 


'~y;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~ 
17th Annual Notre Dame MBA Case Competition 
Strategic Management/Business Policy Tuesday, March 24, 1998 




Teams Competing: 
Bri_gham Young UniversityDulCe UniverstfJ University of Karyland The Ohio State University University of Notre Dame 
10:00 a.m.· 5:00p.m. (Excluding Noontime) Jordan Auditorium -College of Business Administration 
Welcome to Participating Teams Open to Public 
Friday, March 20, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Davie discusses recruiting, last season, tht~ future 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
Keough Hall residents came out in droves last night to hear head football coach Bob Davie speak about recruiting, the future of Notre Dame football and the 1997 season. 
Davie began by discussing tlw ups and downs of last sea­son, in which the Fighting Irish ended up 7-6, a disappoint­ment by Notre Dame stan­dards. 
This came after a disheart­ening 1-4 start in Davie's first year as head coach. lie had previously served as defensive coordinator for three years. 
"At no time last year did I talk about losing six games as a goal of mine," Davie said. "It's obvious no one's satisfied with a 7-6 season, most of all, not me. The toughest part of moving to head coach wasn't 
the transition. The tough part is losing those games, seeing the light at the end of the tun­nel, and really focusing on . identifying what the team's 
true problems are." 
Despite the disappointing 
record, there were positive 
aspects to the 1997 season. 
Notre Dame achieved two 
goals it set after hitting rock 
bottom after dropping to 1-4 
with the loss at Stanford ­
ending up a better team than it 
started and receiving a bid to 
play in a bowl game. 
Off the field, Davie pointed to 
greater student involvement in 
the football program through 
changes in the format of pep 
rallies and T -shirts for all stu­
dents, as well as bringing for­
mer players such as Joe 
Theismann and Joe Montana 
back to speak to the team. 
'Tm the first one to admit we 
did have some problems," said 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year and January '98. Summer Rentals June~August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

The Observer/Joe Mikals·Adachi 
Davie. "I think the thing that was most disappointing to me, and the biggest problem, was that we were not an aggressive team. We were also not big enough or strong enough. We have to increase and improve our team speed. Without speed, you don't get big plays." 
This coming season, Davie's number one goal is to be more aggressive. In response to a 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
used J::xx>ks l:x:u;Jht ani sold 

• 
25 categories of Pocks 

• 
25,000 Hardback ar~ Paperback l:xx>ks in stock 

• 
wt-of-Print Srerdl Service: $2.00 


• .l>nJraisals laxge ani s:rall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232~8444 
lack of strength last year, a new weight coach has been hired and a new weight train­ing program implemented. 
One of the most difficult obstacles the team will face in 1998 is that its first four oppo­nents -Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue and Stanford ­all defeated the Irish last year. However, Davie is positive about next season's outlook because of the leadership and chemistry on the team, along with continuity on the coach­ing staff and the strength of the recruiting class. The group of 21 signees for the Class of 2002 was ranked third in a preliminary recruiting ranking of Division I-A schools. 
"We're really excited about this class," Davie said. "We addressed a lot of needs. We signed two corners and two wide receivers with good speed. I think every one of these kids are a good fit to Notre Dame." 
He said that Jarious Jackson, who will be in his third year of eligibility, is ahead in the bat­tle for quarterback due to his talent, experience and the respect that other players have for him. Returning players Eric Chappell or Zak Kustok, along with incoming freshman Arnez Battle, could make a run at the starting position. 
Another spot which will be hotly contested is the number two tailback, behind junior Autry Denson. Freshmen Tony Driver and Darcey Levy will be fighting it out for the position, whomever loses that contest may see playing time at anoth­er spot next year. 
Davie also fielded questions from the audience, comment­ing on their knowledge and perceptiveness. 
Davie defended the capabili­ties of much-maligned offen­sive coordinator Jim Colletta, saying that Colletta was not the problem with the offense. One change for 1998 will be the hiring of a new offensive line coach. This move will relieve Colletta of his responsi­bilities with the line, allowing him to focus on the whole offense. 
Recent allegations of illegal gifts to members of the football team were discussed briefly, and Davie expressed confi­dence that the situation will be resolved without severely affecting the team. Right now, it is in the hands of the NCAA. 
NFL draft prospects for seniors were also covered at the talk. Davie said cornerback Allen Rossum appeared to be in the strongest position to be drafted in the early rounds. 
"This team knows it's not what you say, it's what you do," said Davie. "I really believe that if we play with some fire and some spirit and have some success, we can get that place [Notre Dame Stadium] going. If there's any­thing we can do to raise it a level here, the enthusiasm or student involvement in the program, give us suggestions. We need everyone working tog;ether because we've got some challenges and we need your help. 
"It's still the best coaching job in the country, I promise you that," he concluded. 

--~~-----............._. ...... -,.....__._ _,. ....... -----~-~---­
the timeline -Brown vs. the up in room 307. Windows show Board of Education of Topeka rooms 308 and 306 set up to -the exhibits expand, with look the way they did on April continued from page 1 more comprehensive histories, 4, 1968. King usually stayed in photographs and interactive 307, but was in 306 on his last 
Me01phis 
95

music emanates from several aspects for some of the more trip to Memphis. 
speakers, melding together at notable events. The culmination of the exhibit diffenmt points throughout the A full-size bus from chronicles King's last two days THE LORRAINE MOTEL 
__,_
room. Montgomery, Ala., invites visi­in great detail, from his arrival 
A I0-minute video presenta­tion about standing up and fighting for rights then intro­ducns visitors to the museum. Tlw exhibit then begins, and an extensive tinwlinn of tlw move­ment wnaves through the muse­um to its dimax at King's death. 
In tlw op1m room of the nxhib­it, separatl~d by walls that do not rnach the ceiling, only cer­tain parts of the display are visi­ble at any time. But throughout the museum, visitors hear aspects of other portions of civil rights history -like the "I have a dream" sp1~nch echoing through the room to those rnad­ing about slavery and emanci­pation. 
Video vignettes at several of the k1~y points throughout black history provide a break from more reading and viewing pho­tographs. Beginning in 1954 on tors to board, joining a statue of the driver and a woman near the front, meant to be Rosa Parks. When someone sits in a scat, a recording is activated and the driver says, "Please move to the back of the bus," first politely, then growing more annoyed each time he has to ask. 

Moving through the museum, visitors go through Little Roek, the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the Battle for Ole Miss, Birmingham. the March on Washington, the March from Selma to Montgomnry, the Chicago Freedom Movement and King's last appearance in Memphis. 
At this point, visitors have reached the second floor of what was once the Lorraine Motel. An old neon sign points the way to the exhibit's end, set in Memphis to his final "Mountaintop" speech to his leaving to have dinner at the time he was shot. A photograph near the window looking out over the balcony to the parking lot shows the path of the bullet that came from the rooming house, still standing across the street. Upon hearing of the assassination, one of the motel's owners, Lome Bailey, suffered a stroke and died the next Tuesday, the clay of King's funeral. 
As visitors read about King's final moments, a black spiritual song plays continuously and a strong sense of what his life and death meant to blacks and all of America swells to the point where those reading the plac­ards might not want to read to the encl. 
Leaving room 307, the view 
Or!qlnally the Wlndaor ·Hotel lc. 192!5) and later one of only a few hotels for blacu. It ho5ted Hsuch enter1alnen as Cab Calloway, Aretha Frankl1n. ' Count Baste. B. B. Klnq. and Nat lmq Cole. Walter and Loree Bailey bou'ijht It In 1942. nmamlnq It .. the Lorraine. Dr. Martin Luther Ktnq. Jr~ w~~o~ , a&SU5lnated outside Room 306 on. AprU 4. 1968. 
•. maklnq It a $}1mbol for the clvU rl'ijh1s movement In 1982. a local nonprofit 9roup saved the site from rorecloaure for ~ u Amerlca'e flnt civil 
·,)~ffi· ~ 

The Observer/Dan Cichalski 
A sign posted by the Tennessee Historical Commission on the wall 
enclosing the National Civil Rights Museum commemmorates the site 
of the Lorraine Motel. 

from the second floor includes awn for the hlaek people's many of the titles of landmark struggle for equality in the events in black history and United States. For blacks, it King's life: "Brown vs. the may conjure up pride; for Board of Education," "Sit-Ins," whites, feelings of sharnn that "Freedom Summer," "Project this is an integral part of C," "Ole Miss" and others. American history. 
This culmination of the exhib­A history, though, that must it instills in visitors a sense of b1~ rememben~d and taught. 


a tJ Lacrosse 

~ Men's Lacrosse vs. Rutgers Saturday 1:00pm 
& 

Women's Lacrosse vs. Vanderbilt Sunday 1:00pm Weather Permitting -Moose Krause Rain -Loftus 
For March Madness, 





call your Papa 
Hours: 
Mon thru Thurs: 
1 1  a.m.  -1  a.m.  
F r i  thru  Sat:  
1 1  a.m.  -3  a.m.  

Sunday: 1 2 p.m. -1 a.m. 


Friday, March 20, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
NBC to tape Folk Choir today 
Special to the Observer for Easter is a project of the U.S. Mass during the school year. 
bishops' Catholic The Easter program will 
The University of Notre Dame Communication Campaign and include music written by the Folk Choir. assembled members will be produced by Golden Cistercian monks of Gethsemani of the Notre Dame student body Dome Productions. It will be Abbey in Kentucky, the Our and the Basilica of the Sacred taped today during morning and Father customarily sung by the Heart will be the features of a afternoon sessions in the Folk Choir as the Basilica's television program entitled Basilica. 11:45 a.m. Sunday Mass, a new "Easter at the University of The Notre Dame Folk Choir, setting, of "Jesus Christ is Risen 
Notre Dame: A Celebration of formed in 1980 and directed Today," by composer Steven Hope" to be aired on April 12, ever since by Steven Warner, Janco, a Celtic Alleluia, and a Eastr,r Sunday morning, on NBC associate director of campus variety of sacred songs from television afliliates nationwide. ministry, provides music for the churches in Africa and Latin The program of sacred music Basilica's 11:45 a.m. Sunday America. 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
lndependant of the University 

Still don't have a clue on which IRA to choose? Take a look at Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's 3 Month IRA CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT. At this rate it's a great way to buy time while you decide. Come on in to see hdw you qualify for membership. 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION For People, Not For Profit. 
239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 

World-Wide Web: www.ndfcu.org E-Mail: ndfcu@skynet.net 
Not valid woth any other offer. Rates subject lo change. Penally for early withdrawal. Annual Percentage Yield valod as of March 15, 1998. $500 minimum deposit. 


Is Your Spanish Good? Are You Interested in Latin America? 
If So, The Kellogg Institute has a competition for three summer internships for undergraduates in 
Washington, DC 
with t-wo groups that lobby and publicize latin American and Third World issues 

Minneapolis 
with a group of lawyers that works with legal and illegal aliens 
For more information contact 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1998 
'l!Jecome 



c«elelirate' 
where 
ent. 
"It {liturgicaJ memory] is not simply a~~tljl''!Jto the past IJ~t ~.returntqth.qfuture with o~TC eyes open;.'' he said. "While we wait for a new social vision, this community table helps to lead us to a new social vision. it calls us to sodal Chflr;tge'" 
· Sacrifice is connected to sodalj\l.Stice h~cause it is pari of one's relationship with God and creates a self-giving rela­tionship With God in memorial of Christ's sacrifice, Driscoll stated. 
\'The d~*~~r .today seems t6 . be how til understand the real potential of the Epiclesis for transformation." he said. It.is intended to do more than just transforming what is on the table. . 
"It sho\\]s thatwe are bread
to the world; we are wine to be poured out for others," Driscoll noted. "The transfor­mation that takes place in the E~tcharist also takes place in us." riscoU 
.....,.. ," ....,·~ the 
studies feels the idea of social justice in the Lenten season has always been present. 

"Social ju~tice in the earlyC.hurch was one of the most startling; d~scdveries l found. Even now, Liturgical week was always linked to social jm>tice," he said_ 


The Observer: for your mind. 

either  or  
Michael}. francis, Director  The Main Office  
Latin American Area Studies  Kellogg Institute  
110 Hurley  216 Hesburgh Center  
631-5203/6469  631-6580  

PUJe4 • &J·P~~ 4 .
..... ..... 

Ticket% ~va~able at L~ort&pe Boi?Ofirice 


-

The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 20, 1998 

S
tudents, faculty, and ~ staff peruse old library 
"·..,_.., books in the Hesburgh Library concourse yester­day. 
Above: Ron Newman examines a set of Encyclopaedia Britannica from 1960, on sale for $8. 
Left and Right: Students 
look for deals amid the 
dusty tomes. 
Photos by Kevin Dalum 

-c-~,e Gveek ClassiL­l-,y 6-uJr'ipec_-les 

pRESENTEd by 

THE FARlEY HAll PLAYERS 
SATURdAy 7:00 PM SuNdAy 7:00 PM 
LAfORTUNE BAllROOM 
TickETs $2.00, Box OfficE 
owoma~ was eve~ so loved or so hat 
Friday, March 20, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 


Asian Heritage week kicks off 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
Assistanr News Editor 
In an attempt to dispel stereotypes and pro­mote public knowledge of the achievements of Asian Americans in the media, the Asian American Association, in conjunction with the Filipino American Student Organization and the Korean Student Association, will sponsor a series of events focused on "Asian Americans in the Arts." 
The goal of the program is to increase awareness of the achievements Asian American citizens have made in acting. direct~ ing, music and art, according to Asian American Association president Alfred Vargas. 
"We wanted to broadcast to a wide base that Asian Americans are out there and that the stereotypes of the group -that they are always studying or interested onlyin math and science-aren't true," Vargas comment­ed. "A.:;ian Americans have had an impact on the media. and we want to give the Asian 
Americans on campus an image that they can relate to themselves." The program Will begin· otFSaturday Witb·an. Asian American Elvis impersonator. · ··· 
Asian American actress Lauren Tom, whQse performing credits include appearances on the weekly series KFriends" and a role in "The Joy Luck Club,'' will be performing th~ .QJ]e~ woman comedy "Twentycfive psychic~·; <'in· Sunday. · 
Other events planned for the week include movies. a photo exhibit, a roundtable discus~ sion with University President Father Edward Malloy, and a. meeting with Asian-Pacific alumni. 
This year's events will replace the annual Asian History Week, which suffered from fluc­tuating attendance levels, which Vargas attributed to t?e political focus of the events. 
The focus ofthis year's program Qn. the media, film. music and art, is more clear, he explained, and lacks the political aspects that he believes intimidated potential participants. 
Hindu part)r fights to build government 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, India 
After months of political instability, a new Indian prime minister was sworn in Thursday -but the clock is already ticking on his ability to put together a lasting gov­ernment. 
Atal Behari Vajpayee, 73, a moderate in the Hindu nation­alist Bharatiya Janata Party, is the man on the spot. 
His coalition government must win confirmation from parliament within 10 days, something two rival parties have enough seats to prevent, providing a number of their lawmakers don't abstain. 
The new Hindu nationalist 
government alarmed neigh­

SAVE THE WORLD. RECYCLE THE OBSERVER. boring Pakistan on 
Wednesday by saying it might 


develop nuclear weapons. Although India is believed toGot news? be capable of making nuclear weapons, previous govern­

HapPY Belated 21st Raam! 
ments have never publicly

Looks like those things were pointy, fella! 
Calll--5323 advocated doing so. 
On Thursday, Pakistan, also 

~·:.,, 
• GREAT WAL~_J
·-~ +v;
,., ··~ ·.·'#*· 
'(::; .·.:··." _.~-. 11 Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row

.J:. .. ;..' ) Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese • American · : .; · Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
~ 
.,f~ " Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
(219) 272·7375 • 130 Dixieway South 
believed to have nuclear capa­bility, accused its longtime rival of risking a deadly nuelear arms race on the Asian subcontinent and said it was willing to enter into an agreement with India not to build such weapons. 
Pakistan and India have fought three wars since the subcontinent gained its inde­pendence in 1947. 
Vajpayee sought to dispel tension, telling reporters in New Delhi, "We want friendly relations with Pakistan." 
But Pakistan may not have reason to worry. India's new government is a diverse alliance of 20 political parties, many of whom don't share the BJP's views on nuclear arma­
ment or much of anything else. 
Even assuming Vajpayee survives the vote of confi­dence, he will have to keep his allies happy, leaving him little room to pursue nationalist policies. 
It's not the first time Vajpayee has been in such a situation. In May 1996, he led a government that was top­pled in a parliamentary vote of confidence after only 13 days. 
He also is the fourth prime minister in two years. 
"I have a pledge to redeem, I have a promise to fulfill," Vajpayee said after being sv;orn in at the Presidential Palace in New Delhi. 
"I am grateful to the people of India who have given me an opportunit~· to serve." 


Friday, March 20, 1998

~---~---­

Tobacco industry wins death 1awsuit 
Associated l'ress 
MUNCIE, Ind. 

The tobacco industry is not liable in the cancer death of a nonsmoking nurse exposed to secondhand smoke at a veter­an's hospital. a jury decided Thursday. 
The jury of six nonsmokers said that cigarettfls were not a defective product and that their makers were not negligent for failing to tell people that sec­ondhand cigarette smoke was dangerous. 
Philip Wiley was senking at least $I :t3 million in compen­satory damages from six tobac­co companies and two industry groups for the 1991 death of his wife, Mildred. The jury also could have recommended mil­lions more in punitive damages. 
The lawsuit was believed to be the first blaming second­hand smoke in an individual's death to reach trial. About 100 simliar eases are pending in the nation's courts. 
Mrs. Wiley, 56, died a month after she was diagnosed with lung canenr. ller husband says she inhaled smoke constantly during her 17 years as a nurse in the psychiatric ward of the Veteran's Administration hospi­tal. 
The sequesternd jury dnliber­ated about 19 hours over two days. The trial entered its sixth week Monday in Muncie, about 60 miles northeast of Indianapolis. 
"I was so disappointed with the verdict but it will have to stand," Wiley said outside the courtroom. 
Joe Young, one of' Wiley's attorneys, said despite the ver­dict, the trial aecomplished some of what the plaintiff had wanted. 
"The cause does not end. We filed the lawsuit back in 1993 to let the public know the dan­gers of secondhand smoke," he said. 
Wiley's attorneys attempted to show that tobacco companies were aware of the danger of secondhand smoke for decades and tried to cover it up. 
Industry attorneys said there is no proven connection between secondhand smoke and eancer. They also said Mrs. Wiley's cancer may have had other causes and could have started in her pancreas, then spread to her lung. 
"The only explanation for this verdiet is that the jury found that environmental tobacco smoke is not a cause of lung cancer or cigarettes arc not a defective product," said Jeffrey Furr, one of the tobacco indus­try's attorneys. 
Mary Aronson, a tobacco poli­cy and litigation analyst in Washington, said the case could have had more impact than other tobacco liability cases because Indiana law is more conservative than other states. 
Congress is reviewing a pro­posed $368 billion national set­tlement between the industry and 40 states. 
Steve Berman, a Seattle­based attorney who serves as the lead private counsel for the attorneys general for 13 of the states suing the tobacco indus­try, said the verdict is a mixed blessing. 
While he's disappointed, Berman said the verdict demonstrates the proposed national settlement is a good idea. 
"Everyone says that by giving them (tobacco companies) lia­bility protection we are doing the public a big disservice. But the thing is, no one has ever won," Berman said. 


Check out The Observer Online 




d d I b 
www.n .e u "'0 server 
Be our guest for the premiere medical ethics lecture of the year. A time to share your questions and aspirations with alumni physicians. 
J. Philip Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics 
J a·hn T. Noonan Jr. 
Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth District and Robbins Professor Emeritus of Law at the University of California, Berkeley 
Friday, March 20, 1998 4:00p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Reception following the lecture 
Sponsored by: Notre Dame Alumni Association Alumni Continuing Education 

Game Watch 
Notre Dame Women's Basketball vs. Purdue Sweet Sixteen 
Saturday, March 21 2:30PM 
Shown only on ESPN2 
The gmne will be wired into 
LaFortune for your viewing 

Free Food and March Madness... Don't n1iss out!!! 

Sponsored h;. the Office of Student Activities 




VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 20, 1998 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcinthaler Kyle Carlin 
ASSISTANT MANAGING El>ITOR Heather MacKenzie 
Nt'WS EDITOR ..................Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ...................... Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR ....... Eddie Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ........ Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR...... .. ......... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER.. . ............. Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS ......................... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ................. Jennifer Breslow 
-Krisri Klirsch CONTROLLER... ....................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ............Shannon Ryan PIIOTO EDITOR .............. Kevin Dalum 
rhc Oh,crvcr is the indcpcndt·m ncw.<.papcr puhlishL't.l hr the !-.mdems of the University of NOtre Dame du Lac and S.unt M.1ry\ College. It tine.., nnt ncccs..~rily rdlt..-ct the policies of rhc administration ofeither institution. The news is n:portL·d .1.\ acmratdy ami ob1cctivcly a.'i pos!-.iblc. Unsigned L-ditorials represent the opinion ofthe majority ofthe b.li10r·m·< :hic:f. M.m:tgm~; Editor. A\!list.mt Managing Editor and department edirors. Commentaries, lcners and columm prc:sc:ru the vil'\v~ ,,f thL· .turhors, aml nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all member' of the Nouc lhmc/S.tint M:try'., community and to all rL-adcrs. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters i~ L'nwur.tgcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
EJiror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/A;;ist.u1t ME 6.11-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 6.11-5.123 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Acccnr/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.] @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 6.11-530.\ Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 6.11-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
New Center Yields More Hassle Than Recreation 
We would like to thank the Rolfs Sports Becreation Center staff for doing such a wonderful job at maintaining the brand new recreational facility. It is cer­tain that this attempt to conserve the new student sporting center will lead to a lower repair budget in the future. llowcvcr, the costs for merely keeping the center open on a daily basis is not cost effective if students arc not allowed to use it. 
Perhaps this is a localized problem that only affects us, but every time we have gone to the center, we have encountered opposition to making use of our new sporting complex. Whether we wen1 attempting to play floor hockey, roller hockey, or even just shoot some hoops, the HSHC staff has given us rea­son after reason. or rather excuse after f1Xeuse. why we cannot do so. 
When the center opened on Feb. 
14. it was hailed as being open for "full use" as of 4 p.m. We discovered quite quickly though, that the RSRC has a different definition of "full usage" than we do. The first time we hiked over there was with hockey sticks in hand to play floor hockey. We were told that Court 1 (the hockey rink) was not open for hockey play yet. No reason was given for this, but we were able to play indoor soccer. This struck us as odd because the court did not have out the soccer nets, but rather the hockey nets. 
On other occasions we were also turned away from playing hockey, but these times we received reasons. The reasons themselves differed each time. 
First, it was for insurance purposes. Next, it was because they needed to put netting up. Then, it was for insurance reasons and because there was no netting. 
Finally, we were told that a schedule needed to be set up for court supervi­sors. yet every time we got an estimate as to when this schedule would be com­pleted. the deadline came and went. 
This information was given to us by the H!1cSports staff' who appeared to have at least some idea of what was going on. Yet, the RSRC staff had no clue as their only response would be, "We don't know yet. You can only play soccer right now. Would you like to sign out a soccer ball?" 
Now, finally, we have the whole situa­tion. It appears that hockey is a high­risk sport and dictates that supervisors must be present at all times. This is the only 
sport where such precau­are even more likely to hurt ourselves without first aid facilities readily avail­able. But hey, at least they would not be held responsible if we were injured. 
The hockey court is the only truly unique aspect of the new facility. After all, there are weight and aerobic rooms in the Rockne Memorial, an indoor track 
at Loftus, and basketball court strewn all about campus. Although they 
might not otTer the 

tions are neces--:~~~~!!!!!!!~~~~~~~ same quality or 
sary, even though in all our years of playing floor, roller, and ice hockey we have never been injured, and that was when we played on poorly lit and surfaced tennis courts at 10 o'clock at night. 
On the other hand, players are injured on a regular basis playing basketball but no supervision is required. So now instead of playing at the Rolfs, we were told to play at either the Joyce Center or outside, unsupervised, and where we level of comfort, they 
seem to have sufficed. However, the hockey arena in the new RecSports Center is the only one on campus, and yet, is still not open for use. 
We were also given similar problems when we tried to play basketball. For example, one of our friends was told that he would have to play without shoes because they were considered marking soles (even though they were non-marking cross-trainers). The staff person then proeeeded to do the same at the court next to us where an intense five-on-five game had to be broken up. So much for recreating. 
First of all, what does it matter if the floor is marked? It is fairly easy to remove the marks, and this is a recre­ation center, not. a shrine. 1don't think they are as concerned about marking shoes at the Snit.e as they are at Rolfs. 
Secondly, if they are so concerned about safety, why would they rather have a person play without shoes, than with shoes that might leave black streaks on the floor? 
Now maybe we are overreacting. After all, we are very happy with the program RecSports runs and get our fill 
of floor hockey through the campus 
league. We are also very impressed 
with the facility itself, but we feel 
that the management is limiting its 
potential. 
The Bolfs Sports Recreation 
Center has yielded neither sporting 
nor recreation, but rather hassle 
and frustration from every visit. It 
would be nice if we could use the 
facility for the recreational purposes 
for which it was designed. 
If it is a supervisor that is required, 
why not send one of the four staff members from behind the desk down to the court where they can read in peace without the possibility of being distract­ed by someone ehecking out a soccer ball? 
Although we have been told that a schedule is now in place for Court 1, and the facility we be open for "full usage" as of March 21, it wouldn't be the first time we have heard this same old excuse. 
We cannot hellp but wonder if it will be yet another month before we can fully enjoy our new sports facility. 
Christopher W. Fanella Thomas R. Szarek Freshmen O'Neill Hall March 17, 1998 

• DOONESBURY 
RICK! llO YOU KNoaJ IUJ.IY YOU~ Bt:!Ne HAUl£!? /NlV THe 
5TARR CHAM&~<? 
~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

NO, /JUTrM V&-I<:Y PROUt? 70 HAV~ EJlZN C/-105eN. 8&/NG IA55iJ~ UH... NO. SU8R:JI3NAI31? 8YSTARR19 t./1<£ I'VeBt?&N
YOUGOT

MAKINGNIXON!3tWeMI£S ON7H!3
~7lXJ~

ITHA'3 A ca<TA!N ~//.{.(H)
I !iHOUtl?I 
CAU~ 
\ • QuoTE OF HIE DAY 
"While making a living, don't forget to make a life." 
-from the desk of Shirley Grauel 



VIEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, March 20, 1998 
• CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE OBSERVER 
Making the Journey Worthwhile 
I love airporL'i, I really do. You can learn so much about life and human behavior by just observing people in airports: travelers rushing to make their eonnecting flights, family members and friends waiting eagerly by the gates, scanning the crowds for the long-awaited arrivals of their loved ones. Each joyous reunion and tnarful good-bye has a story behind it, one that ean be glimpsed but never fully understood by those looking on. 
Jaclyn Villano 

Two weeks ago, my friends and I spent several hours in O'Hare airport, waiting for the plane that would bring us to our spring break haven. It was there, in the waiting area that was overflowing with students. business persons and families eager to reach their destinations that my attention was cap­tured by a man who had seemingly managed to separate himself from the flurry of activity that sur­rounded him. Dressed in business attire, the man seem1~d intently focused as he typed away on his laptop, completely oblivious to everyonn else in the room. I remember feP-ling impressed by his ability to concentrate on work while being in such a chaot­ic sntting. 
I didn't notice the man again until after boarding the plane. The flight had just begun. and I had been watching the sky chang!~ colors as the sun began its d1~scnnt in the sky. I turnnd to say something to one of my friends when I noticed the man sitting two seaL'> away. still working diligently, never once look­ing up from the eomputer and books that duttered his seat. I admired his unbending focus, as he turned a blind eye to the bnauty that surrounded us. 
Shortly thereafter, the sky grew dark and omi­nous. Suddenly, we were flying in the middle of a bad storm. The flight attendants were instructed to take tlwir seats. and some people around us began to panic. Again, I looked over at my friends to see how they were faring, and I saw that the man was still denply engrossed in his work. I lis faee regis­tered no coneern; in fact, it appean~d as though he was not even aware of the situation that was caus­ing otlwr white-knuekled passengers to worry. I marveled at his calmness as I grabbed my room­mate's hand for support. 
After a turbulent ride, we landed safely in Texas. My friends and I raend oil' the plane, and the smil­ing faces of my family wern among the first that I saw. I don't know why, but I turnnd thnn and notiend the man walking briskly to the baggage claim area, dodging the well-wishers that had come to grnet our plane's arrival. I realized then that the man had no one waiting at the gate to greet him, and for some reason, this thought lilh~d me with sadness. It was at this point when I understood how wrong I had been in admiring this man who had such an aura of command and suecess about him. Though I had been impressed earlier by his drive to sueeeed. I now felt sorry for this man who was so consumed by his work that he never even aeknowl­odgml the world around him. 
I think we are all like this man sometimes. Stopping to take notiee of the world around us is not always a top priority when there are morn imnwdiatn tasks at hand. But, in this lifetime, each orw of us has been given a non-refundable, one-way tickPt to do whatever we please with. Sonu~times, I think we gPt so wrapped up in rnaching our desti­nation that WP miss the ride. l.if'e is all about watch­ing suns1~ts. and grabbing the hand of a friend wlwn things gPt rough, and running into the arms of som!Hme you care about when it's all over. 
I do not know this man. II is is just orw of the many storins I have glimps1~d. but will nnver fully UJHim·stand. I havn no idea where he was going that night, but I hope he was \wading home to someone waiting with O(JPn arms, someone who is able to OJWn his eyes to sunsets and to take his hand when tlw rido gnts bumpy. 
That's what makns the journny worthwhile. 
.laclyn Villano is a sophomore Arts and Letters mqior. Iter column appears euery other Friday. 
Tlw l'iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe 0/Jsenwr. 
• WE lEARNED MORE fROM A3-MINUTE RECORO, BABY 


Say No To Styrofoam 
A low grumble moved through trips to get the same amount of an indestructible wedding dress, a South Dining Hall last Sunday food, our mac and cheese doesn't • smashing SYR ensembln, or a evening as hungry patrons liled in stay as warm. the eau d'dining hall waterproof sombrero out of your to see that, for a time at least, it has changed, and the ambiance is old dining hall trays. Save your would be our own Narnia-a ruined by the presence of dump-Styrofoam for packing boxes. For place where it is always winter and sters. budding anarchists, polystyrene, never Christmas. Even McDonald's, the great when melted and eombined with 
A blizzard of polystyrene cups, fortress of those true American val-gasoline and oil, can be used to trays and bowls and plastie forks, ues-beef, equal opportunity and make Napalm and Molotov eock­spoons and knives hit SOH while drive-thru windows-switched tails. Yikes. we were sleepy-eyed and vacation-from polystyrene to recycled paper Better yet, why not skip using ing. Upon swiping our IDs, the din-products in 1990. Shouldn't the chemical-ware altogether? Borrow ing hall workers tried to put a ==========;::::=:=:=:=:=:;:;= some silverware from North, dust cheery face on this sneaky off that coffee mug you use to hold
M 

Armaggedon. "It's like you're at a ary peneils, invest in a Snapple bottle picnic," they said with a smile. and a cheap bowl and plate. But there is no festivity to be Bringing your own gear to the din-
Margaretfound in waste and no Christmasy ing hall is a little like eamping. It spirit in decadence. By the end of forces you to be less wastnful in this semester the trash produced many ways. You will praetien what
Nussbaum by South Dining Hall could crowd Buddhists call "mindful eating." a small landfill. Polystyrene You will finish your plate and (Styrofoam is a brand drink the milk left in name) does just that: your cereal bowl crowd. It is bulky and because you can't does not degrade. Five throw it away. It will hundred years from remind you of that joy-now we will all be long ful truth: In your forgotten, but the half-insignificane!~ lies your filled cup of orange strength. juice that you chucked The cynieal may sigh into the trash this but thosf~ truths we eel-morning will remain. ebrated on Earth Day 
Polystyrene can be baek in sixth gradn still recyeled into plastics for hold. We are inextriea-CDs and hardwood bly bound to tiH~ land. replacements for homes Perhaps the tray you and furniture. But recy-throw away after read-cling (think baek to ele-ing this won't be tlw mentary school science one that nnds up lloat­now) after reducing and ing in the Padlic reusing should be treat-Ocean. P!H'haps, you ed as a last-diteh effort. think, our individual 
David Prentkowski, actions don't add up to the director of Food mueh. Then chango Services, said that Notre because you believe in Dame decided not to the power of symbol n~cycle the polystyrene and tlw gra1:1~ of gl~S­for economic reasons. It turn. Most of us wnn~ would eost an "extreme raised to bow our amount of money," he heads before a m1ml said, and would require and mturn thanks. the "reeonliguration of Learning to reuse eon-the trash compactors." tainers and reducP tlw 
This shouldn't eome amount of waste you as a big surprise. The produce is a way of' giv­administration screws ing thanks. up again. It could be epidemic. 
What is surprising is that a stu-Golden Dome signify greater Before you know it you will bn tak­dent body which is so abundantly restraint, respect and intelligenee ing shorter showers, turing ofT tlw blessed-with great talent, beau-than the Golden Arches? light and radio when you leave a ty, wisdom and wit, not to mention This is where the fun starts. You room, reusing your grab 'n go bags enough J. Crew and Jeep don't have to sheepishly step into and embracing your fellow man. Cherokees to make the most coun-that long line of throwaways. Get try-elubbed among us blush-ereative. Reuse your styrofoam Mary Margaret Cecilia Nussbaum would respond with such lazy indif-cup, fill it with soil and seeds and is a PL">' major liuing in 1/oward ference. tend to your new little window gar-Hall. 
The most common complaint in den. Remember those ''I'd rather The views expressed in this col­SDH these days isn't that we are go naked than wear fur" ads? With umn are those ofthe author and produeing a mini-Exxon Valdez, a little twine and some Martha not necessarily those ofThe but that we have to make extra Stewart ingenuity you can create Observer. 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
An Open Letter to Indiana State Representative Patrick Bauer 
rrecently read an article in the South Bond anything but exports. Tribune regarding the dosing of Bridget McGuire's Other local bars have never had the reputation that Filling Station. I was appalled to learn that the bar Bridget's did, and they don't have as much trouble was owned by an Indiana State Representative and a keeping minors out. Beeause you are a resident of Notre Dame graduate. South Bend yourself, I have to assume that you know 
As the 165 students begin to pay their fines and a sufficient number of people in this community. It is their eommunity service, I wonder if you fully com­unthinkable to me that you couldn't lind a competent prehend the significant role that you have played in seeurity and management team. the situation as owner of the bar. It is time for you to It seems that your political position is the primary take some personal responsibility instead of always reason that illegal activities continued at Bridget's shifting the blame. for so long. As far as I am concemed, making rnonny 
Over the past few years it has been common from an establishment like Bridget's is the epitome of knowledge here at t-Jotre Dame and in tl1e greater corruption and abuse of political power, not to men­South Bend community that Bridget McG\lire's was a tion your apparent lack of concern for the state place where underage drinking was allowed. Indeed, drinking laws. · as I am sure you well know, 165 underage drinkers It is time for leaders like yourself to start living were busted on the night ot' the raid. according to the values that you claim to uphold. 
In the articlfl, I was further disgusted by your quote, "We don't believe we can fight expert counter­Rich Janor feiters. and that is what we were faeing." KccnJn llall 
I have seen some of the identifications usAd, and it March IB, 1998 seems to me that underage patrons of Bridget's were 

Friday, March 20, 1998 ----------------------~OBSERVER ----------------------------------------------pagel3 
Pump Up The Volume 
Campus bands still playing .after 1 o years of N AZZ 
By SARAH DYLAG and KRISTI KUTSCH Scene Editors 
Over 10 years ago, campus bands approached the Student Union Board about getting more recognition on campus. The result was NAZZ, a eampus wide battle of the bands tra­ditionally held in Stepan Center. 
Tonight at Alumni Senior Club, the tradition eontinues as 11 bands com­pete for six different prizes. 
"NAZZ used to be held in Stepan Center. but unless it was a packed house, the noise was bad," explained Tina Potthoff, campus entertainment programmer for SUB. "We moved NAZZ into Alumni Senior Club two years ago." 
Tonight, the doors open at 7:30 
p.m. and the first band will perform at 8 p.m. 
Each band has 15 minutes to play and the last band will end at 1:30 a.m., with the awards ceremony immediately following. 
The top three bands will receive $300, $200 and $100 respectively. In addition, the Best New Band award will be given to the best band that has been playing together for six 
months or less, the Best Crowd Pleaser award will be given to the band that gets the biggest audience response, and the People's Choice award will be given to the band receiving the most audience votes. 
Between performances, spectators will be entertained by three female Master of Ceremonies and acoustic MC Chris Goddard, who is not eligi­ble for any of the prizes. 
"There will constantly be some­thing going on," Potthoff said. 
Audience members can also look forward to free food and a raffle of free CDs, free movie passes, free Ani DiFranco tickets and free T-shirts. Admission is $2 and tickets will be sold at the door. 
Potthoff expects at least 300 people to attend the show. 
"It's nice when people come and can see the band's satisfaction, " she explained. 
As for herself, she sees the show as a finale after working with the bands all semester. 
"When the bands get excited, it's like a pat on the back for all of our hard work," she said. 
The order of the bands will be released at the show. 


Skalcoholiks 

With a combination of jazz, funk, swing, metal and retro-pop, the Skalcoholiks will present their re­defined version of ska music at this weekend's NAZZ. 
In the Spring of 1995 after compiling a mix tape of songs they wanted to perform, the Skalcoholiks -bassist Joe Cruz, drummer Noah Gray, trom­bone players David Griffith and Tony Eltink. vocalist Tim Bowers, alto sax player Paula Conolly and electric gui­tarist Mike Bechtel -went home to memorize the parts over the summer. 
"Our bassist [Cruz] and drummer [Gray] wanted to form a band," explained Bowers. "They wanted to form a ska band." 
In the beginning, the Skalcoholiks played ska music they knew from pop­ular bands the Mighty Mighty Bosstones, Buck-o-Nine and Goldfinger. Now, they have progressed to writing their own originals. 
"Our songs are now a lot deeper," Bowers said. 
Most recently, the Skalcoholiks have played at various bars including Irish Connection, Xtreamz, Corby's and Club 
23. They practice once a week for two hours, except when working on their debut CD, "Look at All This Junk Food." 
They look forward to presenting their music to a wider audience at NAZZ. 
"It's an all ages show," Bowers said .. "It's an opportunity to play music for underage people. It's just something you do when you're a band at Notre Dame." 

Stomper Bob 
Originally named Bob Stomper and the 4 x 4's, this band has come to be known on campus as Stomper Bob. It was formed two years ago, when 1996 Notre Dame graduate Dave Daily -former drummer for the Big Earl Band -decided to start a band. 
The band has transformed over the years, said bass guitarist Matt Butte!, the only original band member still playing. This year it has evolved into more of a jazz emsemble. 
"Our music is a fusion of jump blues, jazz and funk," Butte! said. "We play both originals and jazz standards that we throw our own twist into." Stomper Bob also plays covers from newer bands and bands like Big Bad Voodoo Daddy. 
In addition to Butte!, the band contains members -Keith Syska on the alto saxophone, Andy Janisewski on the trombone, B Money as the lead guitarist, Meghan McCormack as lead vocals and Michael Hummer as percussionist. 
"This is the first show that Stomper Bob has played in a month, and it will be awesome," Butte! said. The band usually plays at the local bars, although they are working on campus promotions. 
They are excited about playing in NAZZ because this is their first appearance with Hummer. "We always thought NAZZ was cool, and it allows people to see a solid music scene," Butte! said. 





Stom 
March 20 
._____ doors open @7:30 p.m.l 
L Alumni Senior Club {all ages).
$2 at the door----. 

neD 
page 14 Friday, March 20, 1998 




Bob the Band 
Premiering tonight is Bob the Band, a quartet of disc jockeys who spin more than just CDs. 
Three of the members of the group were sitting in Alumni Senior Club the night before the deadline of NAZZ. when they decided to form a band. 
"I sing," said Nate Rackiewicz, "John Gavula plays the guitar. and Glen Pietrzk is a disc joekey, so we decided to combine all three ele­ments and form a band." 
Matt Loughran is also in the band, performing as bass guitarist. 
Tlw name of the band revolves around Bob Davie. "We were all talking about Bob Davie," Rackiewicz said. "He's now got a cheer and a band named after him." 
The band molds together the elements of hip-hop, trip-hop, rock n' roll and the spoken word. Most of the songs are originals, but some eombine cover songs with original music. 
Hackiewicz admitted that the band has only practiced twice, but he added that they have played before for other people in Glen's room. 
"We're just looking to have a good time," Rackiewicz said. "It's our senior year and we love music. We just want to show ND what they have never seen before." 


Butterfly Effect 
Last April, graduate student and bass player Hon Garcia decided to form a band. lie contacted vocalist and guitarist Doug McEachern and together they eonvinced drummer Vinnie Carraseo to move back to South Bend. The three eomposed songs over the summer and now perform together as Butterfly Effeet. 
"We play original music that's generally upbeat," said McEachern. "It's definitely punk-influenced." 
Although the band hasn't performed reeently since Garcia broke his wrist, they ean usually be seen playing at dilferent house par­ties and they practice together once or twice a week. On March 26 and March 28, they will open for lloobajoob. 
Thoy describe their performance in NAZZ as simply another chance to play together for an audience. Their performance indudes original songs, including "California in Three Days," "The Door Falling Shut" and "New Gods of the Underground." 
"It [NAZZI just gives us a chance to play," explained McEaehern. 
,..-------=::--------=::---1

Dunn Brc; 
I 
Aaron and .Justin Dunn are Dunn bl 
are Dunn Brothers by musical title. 
"Justin has been singing for a whil, 
last year. I had the originals, and I : 
part," said Aaron Dunn, acoustic guil.i' 
1
The brothors play mostly folk mus 
originals and eover albums such as 1l 
and Garfunkel. · 
They perform weekly at Acoustic I : 
at Farley's Coffee llousn. Dalloway' 
and they opened for the Floridl 
LaFortune earlier this year. 
Aaron said that they hold form 
whieh they write new songs and also 
They have recently released theiJ 
which contains 10 original songs. I 
for$10. 

"We just wanted to share our musi 
of fun, and when you get a lot of p• 
hear good music," Aaron said. 

Letter 8 
Most people use their frnshman year Dog Book to lind a date fi>r their SYH. Katie Hyan, vocalist for Letter 8, used it to recruit people to per­form in a band. 
"She sent a letter to everyone who listed music as their interest," explainP.d Jim Arkedis, drummer fi>r the group. "Four of us actually rnenivnd the letter. That's where the letter in our name comes from." 
Four other band mr,mbers answemd an ad Arkedis ran in the paper earlier this year, and Letter 8 was born. 
Although the group now has only sevnn members -guitarist Jon Ford, vocalist and trumpet player Darren Coady. bassist Aaron Pool, knyboard playnr Matt Crane, bongos player Donjuma Gaskin, Arkedis, and Hyan -they have maintained their original name. 
"It also has to do with Sesam1) Street," explained Arkedis. " At the end of the show. tlwy always said. sponsored by the number and letter. Wn'm Letter 8." 
!'laying a mix of rock. pop, and "fun" music, Letter 8 has -in less than onn year -daimcd a spot among 1:ampus bands. They've playr,d at Irish Connm:tion. Xtmamz. Alumni Senior Club, and various house partins, and they plan to perform at SMC Tostal and at an Amnesty International bnnelit at Saint Mary's as well as make repeat perfor­numccs at Irish Connm:tion and Xtmamz. 
For Letter H. NAZZ is anothnr opportunity to share their music with eampus. 
"It's grmtt publieity and a great way to lr,t pnoplc hear us and see what th1~y think," Arkedis said. 


Raven's Head 
"There is wisdom in the Raven's llead." 
Or so reads the Irish proverb that vocalist and guitarist Larry Broderick, vocalist Bill McDougall, voealist Mike Homen>. gui­tarist Chis O'Malley and percussionist Dan Br-rgen used to name their band. 
"We were looking though a book of Irish proverbs and the phrase just grabbed us," Broderick said. 
Although their performance in NAZZ probably won't test their wisdom, it will give the group a chance to showcase its variety of music. 
"We play a unique blend of traditional Irish music and early 60s rock," explained Broderick. "Our vocal styles range from the slow ballads of Ireland to the sounds to '60s rock. And fans of Hoy Orbison will definitely enjoy our first number." 
Raven's Head came together after Bergnn and Broderick con­templated forming a band. Bergen contacted O'Malley and thr, three met for a rehearsal at Farley, where they realized they needed more members. 
"We knew Bill and Mike from Glee Club and we all just start­ed playing together," Broderick said. 
Since then. the band has performed at Acoustie Cafe, Morrisey Unplugged and the Alumni Senior Club. They practice together once or twice a week. 
"Wr, really though it INAZZJ would be a really exciting thing to do," Broderick said. "We just wanted to give people a ehanee to hear a different style of music and a blend of music." 

Who's Yo' 
Geofl' Babic, vocalist, guitarist and at Acoustic Cafe by himself. Then, Zir-gler saw him p1~rform. 
"lie [Ziegler[ approadwd me and a band," Hahie said. Babic was interested and rncruitnd phone and perform bark-up femal1~ vr 
"The rest of the guys (.Joe Gunter bass guitarist) we knew from Dillo January." Bahie said. 
Since .January, the group has prae to perfnct their "goofy" sound. "We'll play anything,'' said Hahie. then Dave Matthews Bam!." 
The group also plays many origi ptwple laugh. They currently pr-rfon make an appearance at Dalloway'. NAZZ performanee will inelude orig "Phone Calls." 
"We just want to show our music tc Yo' Daddy exp1)rience to everyone on 



Friday, March 20, 1998 page 15 




thers 
rs by birth, but they also 
and he picked up the guitar wrote in a second guitar 
. including a combination of Naked Ladies and Simon 
and have also performed House. WSND radio, how Band and Revue at 
ractices twice a week, in old ones. CD entitled "Memory," ill be on sale during NAZZ 
'th everyone. NAZZ is a lot there, its a neat place to 

Glass Eye Merchants 
Glass Eye Merchants is composed of live Keenan guys who share a common friendship and a similiar taste in music. Their name evolved from a combination of Keenan Revue skits and their sense of humor. "We are just a bunch of wacky guys and the name sounded good," said Bill Briggs, acoustic guitarist for the band. 
They formed about six months ago, when they started playing at Acoustic Cafe. The band is composed of Briggs, Ben Stauffer on acoustic guitar and back-up vocals. Brent Moberg as lead vocals, Tim Rosa as second lead vocals and Joe llauser as bass guitarist. 
They play mostly cover songs right now, such as music from Ben Folds Five and Bare Naked Ladies, although they are working on some originals as well. 
They have performed at Acoustic Cafe and in Keenan's basement ,and are scheduled to play at Dalloway's Coffee House in a few weeks. 
They try to practice frequently, according to Briggs. "Once a day we all sit in my room and jam. We play for whoever is around. We are really a fun, happy band." 
Their goal for the weekend is quite simple. "If we can make two people smile. that's why we are playing," Briggs said. 
Chris Godda1~d 
Chris Goddard is a one-man band, and will be serving as the acoustic Master of Cermonies for the evening. He started playing the guitar when he was 12, and has per­formed in various choirs throughout his life. "My desire is individual expression, my own sole show," he said. 
He describes his music as folk, and he loves to play originals. He does play cover music as well, including a mix of James Taylor and Grateful Dead hits. "Far from my Mind" is the name of one of his songs, which combines his lyrics with music from Sesame Street. 
Goddard has performed weekly at Acoustic Cafe, and also at Morrissey Unplugged, Farley Coffee House and other random cam­pus events. . 
"I play all the time, every day," he said. "I am excited to play in NAZZ, in order to gain more exposure and let people know that I am around." 
Goddard's debut album, entitled "Fill the, Silence," will be released in April and will feature all original music. 
·iolin player, used to perform 1 November, ·drummer Sean kml me if I wanted to be in a ason Linster to play the saxa­guitarist and Pat Emmons, Hall. We were complete in at least two times a week We'll play Chumbawumba and is, and specializes in making 
at Acoustic Cafe and will also 
Coffee House in April. Their 
als "Captain of my Ship" and
t 
everyone and bring the Who's campus,"Hahie said. 


Umphrey's McGee 
In December, 1997, two former members of Stamper Bob and two former members of Tashi Station decided to collaborate and form a new band. The only thing they needed was a name. 
Sitting around at Mickey's Pub, the four band members were stumped until a stranger named Humphries McGee sat down to help them think. 
When the guy left, they had their name-Umphrey's McGee. 
Combining originals and covers in a jam-oriented style, Umphrey's McGee has practiced daily since then and has per­formed at Madison St. Oyster Bar and Mickey's Pub. They will also perform at the State Theater on March 28. 
The quartet consists of guitarist Brenden Bayliss, keyboardist Joel Cummins. percussionist Michael Mirra and bassist Ryan Stasik. Their performance at NAZZ will consist of original songs, showcasing their blend of jazz, Latino and traditional rock sounds. They try to always please their fans and audience members and look forward to performing for an underage audience tonight. 
"We want to let people see us who aren't 21," Stasik said. 

.... 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT
•NBA 


Miller sets the pace for Indiana 
Associat~d Pr~s -all but one in the first quar­New Jersey 93, Orlando 87 the right side. 
ter -and 12 assists for the Van Horn added two free
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
WASHINGTON Pacers. Rod Strickland had 24 throws after Anderson missed
Kendall Gill hit a go-ahead
Two nights after taking the points and 14 assists for the a baseline drive and Cassell
jumper with 1 :54 left and the
blame for a loss to the Chicago Wizards, who were hurt by 14 started his free throw run
New Jersey Nets went on to
Bulls, Heggie Miller was able turnovers and 12-for-22 free­after Anderson missed an
defeat the Orlando Magic 93­
to take some credit for a victo­throw shooting. open 3-pointer. 
87 Thursday night to bolster
ry. Washington, which lost to Horace Grant added 15
their playoff chances. 
Miller scored 20 points -Denver on Tuesday, fell to one points for the Magic and Derek
Coupled with Washington's
and blew the smoke o!T his fin­game above .500 in its battle Strong came off the bench
loss to Indiana, New Jersey
gers before putting them in his for the eighth playoff spot in with 13. 
{35-32) moved a game ahead
make-believe holsters after the Eastern Conference. Nets center Jayson Williams
of the the Wizards (34-3:~) for
sinking two free throws with After Webber missed two returned after missing six
the eighth and final playoff
13.4 seconds left-as the free throws with 1:42 to go, games with a pulled abdomi­
spot in the East. Orlando (33­
Indiana Pacers survived a Rik Smits made two with nal muscle. He played 31 min­
33) trails the Nets by 1 112
fourth-quarter rally to beat exactly one minute left to give utes and had six points and 1 0 
games with a month left in the 
the Washington Wizards 95-91 Indiana a 92-91 lead. Webber rebounds.
regular season.

Thursday night. took the ball into the lane to The game had a playofl' look Portland 82, New York 77Miller. who confessed to a try to put the Wizards back with lots of defense and half­
"horrible" gamA in Tuesday's ahead, but he-missed a layup NEWYOHK
court offensive sets. 
90-84 loss to the Bulls. scored in traffic and his two attempts Arvydas Sabonis and Brian
... 
Keith Van Horn, who missed
eight points in a thrne-minute for a tip-in failed before Grant scored 21 points each
the last three games with a
run that put Indiana up by 13 Jackson grabbed the rebound and the Portland Trail Blazers,
broken toe on his right foot,
late in the third quarter. with 35 seconds left. despite several late mistakes
led the Nets with 19 points.
But Chris Webber brought The Wizards then foreed a and almost no offense in the
Sam Cassell added 17 points,
the Wizards back. scoring 10 bad jumper by Smits, but final 4 minutes, beat the New
including six free throws in
of his 24 points in a 14-4 run Antonio Davis chased down York Knicks 82-77 Thursday
the final 41 seconds, while
to gave Washington a 91-90 the rebound. Miller was night.
Kerry Kittles had 15 points
lead with 2:07 to play. fouled, and made both free Portland did not score from
and 11 rebounds and Gill fin­
Washington never scored throws to put the lead at the field in the final 4:16 and
ished with 13 points. 
again, however, and Indiana three. Webber's 3-pointer for practically gave the game
Nick Anderson had a season­
made 5 of 6 free throws in the the tie bounded off the rim in away, but a 5-second violation
high 38 points for Orlando, but 
final minute to seal the victo­the final seconds, and Jackson on Charles Oakley with 7.4
he missed three straight shots
ry. made a free throw with 1.4 to seconds left -cost the Knicks
after Gill gave the Nets a 85­
Mark Jackson had 10 points go to eomplete the scoring. a chance for the win. 
83 lead with his jumper from 
• NCAA WRESTliNG 
Iowa leads Oklahoma State in championships 
Associated Pr~s NCAA Division I wrestling cham­"I don't think anybody's out in any of those teams ean win it." pionships. front, or that there's a clearcut The Hawkeyes, winners of the CLEVElAND The Hawkeyes lead with 34.5 favorite," Iowa coach Jim last three championships and six 
Unbeaten Joe Williams won points. with No. 1-ranked Zalesky said. "Oklahoma State, of the last seven, qualified 10 twice to stay on pace for his Oklahoma State second with Penn State, Minnesota and Iowa wrestlers to the tournament. third straight individual title as 32.5 points. Minnesota is third -those are the four front-run­Zalesky had figured the Iowa overcame first-round prob­with 32 points, followed by Penn ners. Each has live or six guys Hawkeyes would win seven or lems to take the lead through State with 25 and Oklahoma alive in the championship round. eight of those matches. They two rounds Thursday at the with 24. They keep those guys going, and won five. 

Arizona downs Terps 
Associated Preu 

ANAHEIM, Calif. There's no stopping Arizona's scoring spurts. 
Playing their elosest game yet in the NCAA tourna­ment, the top-seeded Wildcats turned their scor­ing on and off at will, get­ting a flurry of points when they needed them. 
And they did against Maryland. 
Mike Bibby scored 18 of his 26 points in the first half as defending champion Arizona defeated the fourth-seeded Terrapins 87-79 Thursday night to advance to the West Regional final. 
The Wildcats (30-4) will play No. 3 Utah on Saturday. The Utes were 65-62 winners over 10th­seeded West Virginia. 
The TerrapiJ'Is-.(21-11) were the only team in the field to beat two of the top seeds during the regular season, but victories over North Carolina and Kansas couldn't prepare them for Arizona's lethal transition game. 
After trailing by 14 early in the second half. Maryland closed within one with 10:32 remaining. Arizona simply kicked in its speedy offensive game, reeling off nine straight points· to put down the Terps' threat. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without is.uing refunds. 
NOTICES 
Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/t. 
Europe $290 o/w_ Other worldwide 
destinations cheap. ONLY TER­
RORISTS GET YOU THERE 
CHEAPER! Air-Tech 
(212)219-7000. (800)575-TECH. 
www .airtech.com 
"'Attention Sophomore 
Accounting Majors··· 
Looking for a job for 
next school year? 
Position available at the 
Morrissey Loan Fund. 
Call Deb at 1-6616 for 
information. 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDSIII 
Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight 
Fri 7:30am -7:00pm 
Sat Noon -6:00pm 
Sun Noon -Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: one gold card-cannot party without it! if found. please call 241­rumm 
LOST-CAMERA IN A GRAY SUEDE CASE -PENTEX SUPER PROGRAM PLUS -35MM W/ FLASH -PLEASE CALL 289-1324 

WANTED 
Advertising Sales Internships University Directories is hiring stu­dents to sell yellow page advertis­ing for the official campus tele­phone directory this summer. Commission based pay structure. Training program. Excellent sales & marketing experience. Callt-800­743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.universitydirectories.com 
$7-$8/hr. Childcare needed for Spring (4/5-6/15): T,W, Th. 
3:30-5:30 & summer (6/98-8/8/98: T, W,Th, F 9-2) for 6 & 8 yr-old boys. Looking for creative, ener­getic, and experienced individuals. Responsibilitiies include organizing and implementing educational activ­ities, light housekeeping and meal prep. References required. Contact Karen or Gregg at Baer­Barkley & Co. 273-9000 between 8­5, monday-friday 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT SNITE ART MUSEUM Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on museum objects and related hands­on activities. June 2nd to July 31st. 10-20 hours per week. Fine Arts major with exp. teaching and/or working with children preferred. (June 15 to July 31st. additional Work Study hours-if eligible-with National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours per week if desired, PLUS room and board included June 23 to Aug. 1) CALL education curator Sherrie Gauley, 631-4435, ASAP. App. deadline 4/06/98 
SMC student seeks tutor for Bus.Stats class. if interested call 284-5048 ASAP 
~-F_o_R__RE__N_T__~I 
APT. New Buffalo, MI. Prof or Grad Student who com­mutes between Chicago & NO Non-smoker pref. No pets. 1-800­265-1682. 
3 bdr home,2blks from campus 273-1566 
Very Reasonable Rent Looking for a mature female or graduate student to share brand new home (South Bend area, north, Clay Twnshp). Spacious upper-lave private bath, beautiful view over­
looking pond. Please send inquiries to: PJS 1705 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN. 46637 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
Furn. room, air, kitchen, private entrance, phone, laundry facilities. utilities included. $200/mo. 
272-0615. 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES NORTH OF NO GOOD AREA 2773097 
8 BEDROOM HOME 277-3097 
FOR RENT: 2 BR/2 BATH OAKHILL CONDO, AVAILABLE AUG. 1ST. CALL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE (219)272-2910. 


FOR SALE 
1989 2 door Nissan Sentra CD player, AJC, Excellent condition, runs great. $ 1800 o.b.o. 273-6334 
Twin size bed. Perfect condition. Only $45. Call 247-0668 or email smontufa@darwin.cc.nd.edu. 
~~___T_Ic_KET_s
__ __~ 
For Sale Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows Center State -$30 272-7233 



PERSONAL 
-Adorable Kittens­-9 week old kittens -Litterbox trained -Extremely playful -A good home is the only lee Call : Grant -287-9027 Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/Nd-SMC 10-1/2 price field fee. 291-2540. 

ARTS & LETTERS Majors & Programs Fair Follow-up Department Meetings: 
(Monday) MARCH 23 COMPUTER APPLICATIONS: Rm 216 DeBartolo at 6 PM. GOV'T & INTERNATIONAL STUD­IES: Rm 129 DeBartolo at 7 PM MEDIEVAL STUDIES: Am 715 Hesburgh Library at 7 PM ADVISORS WILL BE AVAILABLE 
ARTS & LETTERS Majors & Programs Fair Follow-up Department Meetings 
(Tuesday) MARCH 24 
ECONOMICS: AM 114 O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7 PM 
ENGLISH: AM 120 O'Shaughnessy Hall from 6:30-8:00 PM 
ADVISORS WILL BE AVAILABLE 
AUTHENTIC KOREAN DINNER 
DATE: Sunday, March 22 TIME: 5:30 p.m. LOCATION: Center for Social Concerns CHARGE: $4 
'Dinner includes Korean barbeque beef, noodle entree, kimchi, fried rice and dessert 'Tickets will be available at the LaFortune Info Desk beginning March 16th 'All are encouraged to attend the performance of actress Lauren Thorn (Joy Luck Club) at 8 p.m. fol­lowing the d1nner 
God, the accent writer with the red hair is cute! 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles. skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a newborn with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
hi mom! it's a little late, but SUR· PRISE! thanks for such a lovely week, and I'm sorry I almost got us killed in santa barbara. I love you! 
AJ, thanks again for the coffee and chat last february! -C's mom 
don antonio­you speaketh to me not, yet you wanteth my couch. what up man?l -colleen 
oh how I love a wafflehead·free life... 
mel and andrea­congratulations on getting into grad and law schools!! you really are true champs and i'll miss you both very much when you abandon me. love always, the wine-o 
V-

hey, who needs them. we've got each other for smokey-breaks. 
-C 

I quit mom, really!! 
say hi to mikey and yanory for me, k? thanks. 
JoeO­if we went, last night was a blast!! thanks for your, um, help. 
--{;011 

(p.s if we didn't go, call that girl and get my, um, help!) 
mark, you wanted me to say some­thing about your hair so ... 
what can I say? though the orangy-blonde hue does match your sweater 
which I like very very much you'll fit right in at casino nile lj rocks my world oh it's thursday nile and i ain't got 
no money well, i do have $3.33 congrats kristi and sarah!! scene 
looks awesome! love, mac Garry Singer 

DMB&B Ad Agency St. Louis Tues., Mar. 24th 4:30p.m. 129 DBRT "A passion for building leaders." Sponsored by Marketing Club. 
look at all this junk food ... lo sono Ia donna amara e abrasiva. Well, that's just the way it is. La barca d'amore. Can we rock? What's up Doc? Can we rock? Alabama and Alaska, Arizona. 
Arkansa. California, Colorado and Connecticul and more. Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho .. 
"Qwertyuiop." that's what the first line of the keyboard says_ The second line says, "asdfghjkl." And the third, "zxcvbnm." 
Friday, March 20, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
The Party~s Not Over. • • 


Open 7 days a we~ek Tues., Thurs., Fri., & Sat. 
DJ 

Daily Specials -call for information 

• 
-~ 




J The tradition contintles. • • 
"G 
4 
G 
" 
" 


s 
~ where South Bend & Notre Dame: meet!! Music • Bands • Pool• Darts • Hmrnmus Open until3 Mon-Sat 
u 

http://www..inimitech2.com/club23 




.. 
.. 


• NCAA TOURNAMENT SWEET 16 
Tar Heels e01ploy speed, skill to s01oke past Michigan 
Associated Press their superior speed and skill to love the big games. I love if you stakes get high that's when I Mateen Cleavns, the Big Ten toss aside Michigan State as the lose -everything is gone," sa1id really relax a lot more." player or the year, led the GHEENSBOHO. N.C. 
All-American forward had 20 Jamison. "This is when I really The top-seeded Tar Heels (3:~-Spartans (22-RI with 1 R points,
The higher the stakes. the bet­points and 14 rebounds in a 73­
have fun and my teammates olo 3) moved within one victory of but he was 7-for-21 and couldn't ter North Carolina and Antawn SR victory in the East Hegional the same thing. the single-season school n~cord solve North Carolina's switehing
.Jamison play. 
semifinals on Thursday night. "We play a lot of teams really for wins and a fifth Final Four defenses as Michigan State shot
The top-ranked Tar lleels used ''I'm one of those guys that gunning after 


llniwr..;il\' 
l~f ­
.\hHn· o,unt•

Graduation 
Announcements
• 
Add'/ packs ol 5 @ $5.90/pk. 
Custom Note cards, Thank you 
notes and Souvenir Covers also 
available. 
Phone, mail, fax orders: 
Balfour Co. 
2346 So. Lynhurst Dr. #500 
Indianapolis, IN 46241 
800/236-4639 
fax-317/241-0430 
Place orders in person on: 
Tues., Wed., March 24 & 25 LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room, 9:30 am -4:30 p1n 
The College of Business Administration Diversity Program 
Presents 
A Discussion Entitled 


Diversity: A Business Perspective 
Hear views from representatives from various businesses as they discuss: 
Diversity in Corporate America The Value of Diversity in· the Workplace Preparing for a Diverse Society 
.. 
Please join us in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium at 3:45p.m. Wednesday, March 25, 1998. 
Refreshments a·nd the opportunity for further conversation will immediately follow. 
us. When the trip this decade, beating the 31 pnn:ent. 
slower Spartans almost every "WI~ got what wn thought wn step of the way. would get, "Michigan State eoarh 
Vince Carter added 20 points Tom lzzo said. "I knew it was and 10 rebounds, while going to be a tough game (on the Shammond Williams had l R boards). Even though some of 
points and a career-tying nine our matchups seemed good they rebounds for the Tar Heels. weren't great." North Carolina will play tlw Playing in fhmt of a hugo par­Connecticut-Washington winner tisan crowd at tlw Gnwnsboro in Saturday's regional final. Coliseum less than otw hour 
One game after being outre­from campus, North Carolina bounded 43-34 in an overtime had too many ofl'lmsive weapons win against North Carolina­for fourth-slwded Michigan Charlotte in the second round, State, a program playing its the Tar Heels destroyed one of biggest tournament game sinc1~ the nation's best rebounding Magic Johnson bnat Larry Bird clubs 51-33 . and Indiana State for tlw 1971) 
"We knew deep. down inside national championship. Johnson we took UNC-Charlotte lightly was in the stands ciHH•ring for and we knew we couldn't do that his alma mater. at all against Michigan "Wp did havn a lot of p1~ople State,"said Jamison. "We were her~~. which rnaybn tlwy pur­kind of embarrassed about the chased (the tickets) at an exorbi­way things happened last week. tant price,"North Carolina c:oach We went back to the way we've Bill Guthridge said of the Tar rebounding all year after taking lleels fans, who took up about a break." three-fourths of the building. 
~eed aJob Next Yeat? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for the 1998-99 acade1nic year: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers LaFortune Information Desk Attendants Gorch Games Room Attendants Office Assistants Ballroom Monitors Sound Technicians 24 Hr. Lounge Monitors Cake Service Building Set Up Crew 
pplications are available at 315 LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 9. 


CarlsonWagonlitlt;j 
\I l'ran:lmun: <·arlsun \I a~unht Tra1 cl 11 c h<11 c ht'l'll 'l'll<h 11~ '-<>Ire I );um: a11d I .\ lar~ 's students aJld f;~cult) to I~uropc r..r (II l'r 25) l'<trs I,t:! uur C\llCrll'JllC( clll'<'!ll:all Spcct<llts!s pla11 \llllf nnt trtp Ill I :un,pt· ( lllt a~c11c~ ullcrs 
1723 South BcnJ .'\IL' 



Friday, March 20, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 



Buzzer-beater lifts UConn to Elite Eight 

Associated Press 
GREENSBORO, N.C. 
Richard Hamilton's rebound jumper in the lane at the buzzer, Connecticut's third shot in the 
-PLEASE JOIN US FOR A PRESENTATION 
DIVERSITY. ON COLLEGE C4MPLJSES: .4 PLUR.4L IS TIC .4PPR04CH 
NOTABLE AU TH 0~: ~ EDUCATOR~ AND DIVERSITY FACILITATOR ANDV EVANS TA~::ES A ,.,.REALISTIC~ ,.,.LIGHT-HEARTED}} LOOK AT THE ISSUES AND CHALLENGES OF PRACTICING INCLUSIVITV~ AND OFFERS DIVE RSI TV-RELATED BEST PR .o~::TICES AT OTHER COLLEGE CAMPUSES ACR OS3 AMERICA. 

WHERE: 

-REFRESHMENTS AND THE OPPORTUNITY FOR FURTHER CONVERSATION 'WILL I t...1 MEDIATELY FOLLO...V­
SPONSORED BV THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AD MINISTRATION DIVERSITY' PROGRAM 

A social comedy about a deep friendship that develops in contemporary Cuba between a straight political-science student and a repressed gay artist. Acclaimed at the Telluride, Toronto and New York FJm Festivals, STRAWBERRY & CHOCOlATE is a warm and funny look at the lives of two very different people with friendly simfurities. 
SUNDAY, MARCH 2 2, I 998 ADMISSION IS FREE CUSHING AUDITORIUM ~SHOW BEGINS AT 8:00PM 
final eight seconds, gave the sec­ond-seeded Huskies a 75-74 vic­tory over Washington in the East Regional semifinals. 
Connecticut (32-4) will play top-seeded and top-ranked North Carolina, which beat fourth-seeded Michigan State 73-58, in Saturday's regional final with a berth in the Final Four at stake. 
No. 11 seed Washington (20­10) took its first lead at 7 4-73 with 33 seconds left on a 3­pointer by Donald Watts. 

Connecticut called a timeout with 29 seconds left. Freshman point guard Khalid El-Amin dribbled the ball near midcourt until there were 10 seconds left. He drove toward the basket and passed the ball to center Jake Voskuhl, whose shot bounced off the rim and Hamilton got the rebound and shot, again with the ball coming off the rim. 
After it was tipped from the other side, Hamilton grabbed the loose ball and hit a fade­away jumper over 7 -foot Patrick Femerling, the ball falling through the basket as the buzzer sounded. The Connecticut players all fell to the floor in a huge pile as the Huskies advanced to the region­al finals for the third time in six round of 16 appearances in the '90s. 
Hamilton, the Big East player of the year as a sophomore, fin­ished with 22 points, 18 in the second half, while El-Amin had 19 on 7 -for-20 shooting. 
Watts led Washington, which beat sixth-seeded Xavier and 14th-seeded Richmond to reach the round of 16 for the first time since 1984, with 22 points, while 7 -footer Todd MacCullouch had 18 and Deon Luton added 17. 
Connecticut seemed to be in control in the matchup of teams named Huskies, leading 64-55 
The Observer/John Daily UConn prevailed in the battle between the Huskies yesterday. 
with 10:16 to play on a three­point play by Souleymane Wane. But Washington, the fourth­place team from the Pac-1 0 and the first of the four teams from that conference to lose in this tournament, went on an 8-0 run to get within 64-63 with 7:28 left. 
Washington's defense was impressive during the run as Connecticut missed five shots and committed three turnovers in the spurt. 



Attention SOPHOMOIRESIIIIII 
Want to plan one of the greatest events of your Notre Dame experience...... . 
Apply now to be 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON 
Applications available in 315 LaFortune 
Deadline: 5 p.m., March 24 

Christmc:.s in April 
Benefit Run 
Plus 'L Mile WalK~ 
'Z:>aturda~, Marc.h ~S, 11:00 f\M 'Z:>tepan Cente-r 
~ 

I 
f\\\ 'Proc.eeds to flenefit an~ in ~ 
Sponsored By 
R--~ 


.... 
.. 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 





Doleac free throws carry Utes into regional final 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM. Calif. 
.Jarrod West couldn't come up with another miracle for West Virginia. and this time, he even had three chances. 
Mir.hael Doleac made two free throws with 6.5 seconds remaining and West missed a 3-pointer as time expired as Utah held ofT the Mountaineers 65-62 in the West Hegional semifinals Thursday night. 
"I had good looks at them, thny just didn't fall down for me." said a tearful West, whose final 3-pointer would have forcml overtimn. 
"I thought he made it," l>olcac said. "It hit the front rim. Thank God the clock ran out, their pressure gets to you." 
Andn1 Miller. guarding West on the final play, said his main concern was to not commit a 
fin!I. 
" I f' lw m a ke s it, it 's 0 K , " Millnr said. "If' it did go into overtime, we probably would have won." 
Utah. se1~ded third. faces top­seeded Arizona on Saturday with a spot in the Final Four at stake. The Sun Devils beat Maryland '11.7-79 in the other regional semifinal. 
"I hope we've got a couple cards left in the deck to play," Utah coach Hick Majerus said. "We got a bounce here or there. 
"I can't tell you how happy I am. I'm emotionally drained. I told the kids to enjoy it." 
Even the presence of Jerry West. the most famous West Virginia alumnus of them all, couldn't help the 10th-seeded Mountaineers record another upset. 
.Jarrod West's 3-point bank shot in the final second last Saturday gave the Mountaineers a 75-74 victory over second-seeded Cincinnati. But West misfired three times in the last minute of this game. 
Doleac had 25 points and nine rebounds and Miller had 14 points and eight assists for the Utes (28-3), who won despite not scoring a field goal in the final 9:05. 
Brent Solheim led West Virginia (24-9) with 16 points and seven rebounds. Damian Owens had 12 points, nine rebounds and five assists and West added 11 points for the Mountaineers, who start five seniors. 
West Virginia hadn't won as many as two NCAA tournament games between 1959 and this year. 
"People told us and coach (Gale Catlett) told us we did something great when we made it past Cincinnati," Owens said. "We had bigger goals, that's all we can think about right now." 
Doleac made two free throws with 4:45 left to give Utah a 60­56 lead. and another pair with 
3:27 remaining to make it 63­
58. However, Solheim, a 58.3 percent foul shooter, made two free throws with 2:17 left and two more with 1:50 to go, drawing the Mountaineers within one point. 
Utah then turned the ball over. giving West Virginia a chance to take its first lead since the Mountaineers were up 17-15 midway through the first half. 
But West missed from 3-point range with a minute to play as the shot clock expired. 
Utah's Drew Ilansen missed two free throws three seconds later, but West couldn't connect on a 15-footjumper with 37 seconds t.o go. 
The Mountaineers elected not to foul, allowing the Utes to run the clock down before Doleac was finally fouled with 6.5 sec­onds left. He then hit both free throws, making him 13-of-14 in the game. 
"We still had enough time to tie or win the game," Catlett said. "We couldn't convert at the end. We wanted to foul (earlier), but we wanted to foul selected people. For some rea­son, we just didn't get to the right person. 
"We're trying to get the ball with the fullcourt press, we thought we could get the ball on a charge or a turnover. We almost did." 
Utah, which lost to Kentucky in the West Hegional final last year. made 22-of-27 free throws to 10-of-16 for West Virginia, which entered having made just 61.3 percent of its foul shots. 
"We missed our free throws and they made theirs, and that's unfortunate," Catlett said. "I think if we made our free throws, we would have won the game. 
"We outshot 'em from the field, we outreboundcd them, the press disrupted them. but we didn't make our free throws." 
The Utes didn't make a bas­ket after Miller's 3-pointer with 
9:05 remaining gave them a 53­48 lead. but they did enough at the foul line and on defense to prevail. 
A foul shot by Doleac with 
8:28 remaining gave Utah a 5'11.­50 lead -equaling its largest -but the Mountaineers scored the next six points to draw within two. 
Utah hasn't reached the 
Final Four since 1966. Sparked by Jerry West, the Mountaineers last got tlwre in 1959, reaching the champi­onship game before losing to California 71-70. 
Miller's three-point play with :{6 seconds left gave the Utes a 34-28 halftime lead. 
/-laue you 8cetie the Accent pages recently? 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~~·----~~----------------~------------------~ 
Friday, March 20, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN's lACROSSE 
Strong attack necessary to beat Knights 
By JOHN NEWMAN and JOE WOLF Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame m1m's lacrosse team is back in action this Saturday when they face the s(~arlet Knights from Hutgers. 
The Irish will be looking to rebound from a tough loss hand­ed to them by Loyola last week­end. 
Tlw Irish attack will look to senior captain .Jimmy Kennan to rontinue his strong play in hopes of putting it past sonior goalie Mike Zoanntti of Hutg11rs. Zoanetti is tlw heart and soul of tlw Scarlnt Knight toam. starting 1wnry gamf! in gila! for the past two years. He is always capable of the big saves in the big games, as evidenced in his 23 save upset win of Syracuse in 1996. 
Keenan, however, is also capa­ble of taking a game into his own hands. Just two weeks ago Keenan scored a carenr-high six goals against Air Force. The Irish offense also counts on his leadership on the field as they approach the middle of their season. 
The Irish also look to fresh­man David Ulrich to spark the Notre Dame attack. Ulrich has already n1corded two hat tricks this snason. and his teammatf!s will look for him to create good scoring chances against Zoanetti and the stingy Rutgers defense. 
Notre Dame's last line of defense is senior captain Alex Cade. He has played very solidly in net during the season, but this is nothing new for Cade. A two­time captain and one of the best goalies in Notre Dame history, Cade anchors a very strong defensive unit. 
They will be called on against an explosive Rutgers offense. Junior Brody Bush. the team co­MVP and assist leader, is an unselfish player with a knack for finding the open man. He can also take it to the cage and score when needed. 
Another Scarlet Knight primed for battle is senior Craig Buckley. Buckley has a great shot and is a strong finisher. The Irish will need to keep these two Knights in the dark if they hope to contain the Rutger's attack. 
The defense also hopes to regain some confidence it lost against Loyola. In the first half. the Irish defense allowed the Greyhound attack to score 12 times. 
Rutgers offers a perfect oppor­tunity to regain some of this lost momentum. They have a relent­less attaek and a stilling defense, but the Irish hope to find holes in the Knights' armor. The game will be played at Moose Krause Stadium at 1 p.m. Saturday. 


r----------------------------------,

QUAUTY RATED 
.J 

Friday, March 20, 1998 
~~e~etud" 
A cultural extravaganza of Notre Dame with food, performers, and fun. 8-10 pm in the Center for Social Concerns 
~~ s~ ~atU«J-" 

10:00 pm at the Center for Social Concerns 


Sunday, March 22, 1998 
Diversity Day Mass and Celebration 
4:00pm in Sepan Center 
(refreshments to follow) 

···i i········:···mt··· 
page 21 

••• WOIVIEN•s SWIMMING 
-~*:: 
·· Fr~~estyle 


svv'immer 

E~xcels 

Special to The Observer 
In her first appearance in the NCAA championships, Notre Dame senior Linda Gallo placed 14th in the 500· yard freestyle on the first of three days at the NCAA women's swimming and div· ing championships in MinneaJpolis, Minn., to earn all-America honors. 
Gallo placed 13th in the preliminaries with a time of 4:47.04, breaking her school record (Jf 4:48.02 which she swam en route to the Big East 500-yard freestyle title on Feb. 19. 
In the preliminaries on Thursday. afternoon, the Irish team .of Gallo, 'freshman Carrie Nixon, sophomore Shannon Suddarth and junior Brittany Kline placed 19th in the 200-yard medley relay with a time of 1:36.04. Nixon then placed 27th in the 50­yard freestyle preliminaries withan.14. 
Today Gallo swims in the 200-y<:~rd freestyle, while Suddarth and Kline swim in the 100-yard breaststroke. Nixon wilf swim in the 100­yard freestyle on Saturday, while Gallo will swim the 1650-yard freestyle and Suddarth the 200-yard breaststroke. Suddarth earned all-America honors with a 13th-place finish in the 
i~gf~~r~;::~~~:~i;s~he 
L-----·------------~--­
.. 
• 
~------------------~--.-~---------------------------~------~--------.---------------------------------------------------~-----------------------, 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 20, 1998 
• SOFTBAll 



Weekend doubleheader could build confidence 
By BRIAN KESSLER  with ranked teams (going a com­ Early last week,  the  Irish  but senior pitchHr Kelly Nichols  pleasant surprise for the Irish,  
A<sis[anr Spons Edimr  bined 1-8 against teams in the  snapped  a  six-game  losing  has been thH most consistent on  batting .297, while junior Amy  
top 25} so they will look to take  streak with a  7-0 shutout of  the mound for the Irish. She  Laboe is batting .296 and has  
AftPr a spring break road trip  advantage of these two non-con­ Western Illinois, their lone win in  boasts  a  3-3  record and  an  driven in seven runs.  
that saw the Notre Dame softball  ference games against unranked  four games at the Fresno State  impressive 1.18 EHA. Junior  This weekend provides a gold­ 
team (8-131 manag11 only four  Toledo, which is struggling this  Classic. They followed that up  Angela Bessolo is off to a slow  en opportunity for the Irish when  
wins in 10 games, the Irish will  year with a 1-10 record. The  with a loss to UCLA, but ended  start with a 1-6 record despite  they go up against Toledo, a  
look to gain some momentum  game is the home opener for the  the break on a bit of an upswing,  leading the team in wins in ead1  team that has struggled all sea­ 
heading into Big East conference  Hockets, who finished fifth in the  taking three of their last five  of the past two seasons and her  son.  
play when they play a double­ MAC last season.  including  wins  over  Loyola  2.06 EHA so  far this season.  "We're looking forward to the  
header at Toledo.  "We lost to them by one run in  Marymount, Chattanooga, and  I lead coach Liz Miller has yet to  games  this  weekend,"  said  
The game is scheduled for  the fall," commented infielder  Tulsa in the Bank of Hawaii  decide who will take the mound  Mathison. "So far we've had  
Saturday, but weather conditions  Sarah Mathison. "But we've  Invitational. The 9-1 victory over  for the Irish the weekend.  !lashes of brilliance but unfortu­ 
may  cause  the  game  to  be  learned a  lot since then and  Loyola Marymount gives the  The Irish will need production  nately it's b()(m one step forward  
pushed back to Sunday.  we're pretty confident heading  Irish the edge against common  at the plate from senior Jenn  and two steps backward."  
The Irish have had trouble  into this game."  opponents since Toledo was  Giampaolo if they are going to  The Irish have a chance to pick  
shutout by Loyola 12-0 earlier  beat Toledo. Giampaolo is bat­ up two key wins as well as build  
• SPORTS BRIEFS  this season. Freshman  Melanie  Alkire  ting a team best .306 and also leads the team in at-bats. hits.  confidence in what will bt~ one of their last games bnfom confer­ 
ND-SMC Gymnastics Club ­ The Clover Classic Home Meet is  pickHd up her first collegiate vie­ and  runs  scored.  Freshman  ence  play gets undnrway later  
on Saturday, March 21, at 4 p.m. [t will take place at  tory against Loyola Marvmount,  Danielle Klayman has been  a  this month.  

Gymnastics Michiana, on Home Street across from the United Limo Office. 
NO Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club -meets every Sunday at the Hockne Memorial, 10 a.m. to noon in room 219. The club teach­es southem Shaolin internal martial arts. which include Tang­style Tai Chi Chuon and "Five families Five Animals" internal Kung Fu. Classes w·e non-competitive, and all are welcome to attt-md regardless of prior training. If the above time is inconve­nient or if you want more information, please call Teo at 4-3013 or email cteodoro@nd.edu. 
Drop-In Volleyball -RecSports will be sponsoring Drop-In Volleyball every Wt}dnesday night for the rest of the semester. Play will be from 8 to 11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Come by yourself or bring a friend. Open to all Notre Dame student.<;, faculty and sta.fl.'. 
Modern Dance -RecSports will be sponsoring a Modern Dance class that will meet Sundays from 3 to 4:30 p.m. and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 p.m. in Activity Room 2 of the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. There will be an information meeting on Wednesday, March 18 at 8 p.m. at the RSRC. You must regis­ter in advance for the class and sign-ups begin Thursday, March 19, at 8 p.m. at RecSports. The fee is $20 and no experi­ence is necessary. Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. 
Christmas in April Btmefit Run -March 28 is the date for this 5K or lOK run and 2 mile walk. The run begins at 11 a.m. with the start/finish at Stepan Center. There will be six divisions for each run with trophies being awarded to the top finisher in each division. All registrants will be awarded a t-shirt. The cost of the run is $6 in advance and $7 the day of the event. 
John M.Marshall's, Inc. 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold or Platinum. Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
-

qJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 


A different world cannot be built by indifferent people. 
CENTER  FOR  
SOCIAL CONCERNS  -Horace Mann  
Mary Clare Hogan Cheryllgiri Tim johnson Colleen Quinlan jamiko Rose Adam Alessio John Paul Borrego Josie Coffey Krista McCarthy Erin Neil Andrea Ray Angela Anderson Kathleen Finn Sharon Houlahan Amoldo Lacayo Rene Levario Diane Leza Vanessa Norris Peter O'Donnell Lina Sidrys Timothy Slattery  Congratulations and thanks to the over 150 participants in The Appalachia Seminar The Haiti Seminar The L 'Arche Seminar The Migrant Seminar The Washington Seminar who represented The University of Notre  Karen Boselli Mark Brown Sara Doorley Cristina Grassi Marisa Higgins Mike Hutchinson Christine jacobs Jennifer Johnson Dennis jovellanos Kris Klein )aclyn Lievense Michael McMorrow Brian Meihaus Maureen Neville Andrew Olejnik Robert Peters Jr. Julie Poulos Kelly Wahlen Brendan Walsh Michelle Williams Pam Hunt Gaulrapp  
Dame and Saint Mary's College during  
Spring Break in service and experiential  
learning at 16 sites  across  the nation.  
Zenaida Alonzo Teresa Anderson Kelly Anoe Erin Atwell Leticia Balt<'S Kelly Basinger Amanda Bauer Kimberly llerg Paul Bishop Mary Boerner Nicole Borda Christine Brown Elizabeth Buescher Christopher Butera  Shana Cagney Roman Chaban Mary Clark Matthew Cooper Kathleen Crotty Molly Cullen john Daily Timothy DeFors Kerry Desmarais Rose Marie Domingo Jed Donahue Katie Donohoe Katherine Dom julie Duba  Audra Duda Katherine Duffy jennifer Ehren Kristin Engel jonathan Erpenbach Mary Finley john Fiorenza Camille Fitzpatrick Daniel Furfari Rachel Gallardo Goran Gavran Austin Gerig RimaGimius john Gordon  Catherine Goyette Sarah Greeman Mary Green Tim Greene Rebecca Hammel Carrie Hedin joseph Hemler Vanessa lndriolo Sarah Karr Daniel Kirzeder Iris Lancaster Todd Langager )akub Langer Catherine Layden  Kevin Leonard Sarah Lett Christopher Leyland john Linn Timothy Logan Charles Lovejoy Ruth Luckas Matthew McBurney Sheila McCarthy Molly McLeod Kevin McManus Biz McShane Teresa Middleton Colleen Milligan  Patricia Mitchell Rebecca Mitsch James Montoya Karin Moon Jim Moravek Brian Morten Lauren Murphy Courtenay Myers Jennifer Nash Holly Nelson Mary Nussbaum Colleen O'Keefe EllenOTool Joseph Olegario  justin Pauly Kevin Peth Kori Pienovi Caroline Polking Scott Potter Christopher Powers Catherine Poynter Laura Reding Emily Reimer Julie Reising Suzanne Richardson Christine Ridenour Emily Roebuck Kaileen Sanner  Richard Saxen Sallie Scherer Kristen Spellacy Courtney Wagner Andrew Wamement Margaret Watson Kelly Wherley Kathryn Wood Sharon Zielmanski  
..  



Friday, March 20, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 23 
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Focused Irish seeking U})Set win 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Junior Stephanie Fox surveys the field from her attack position. 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Editor 
All performers want their opening debut to be a huge success. After a winning sea­son debut at UC Davis, the women's lacrosse team want­ed nothing more than another win for their home debut. 
They didn't get one. 
Now the team has a chance to redeem itself on Sunday, taking on Vanderbilt in its sec­ond game of a three-game homestand this weekend. 
Last year, Vanderbilt proved to be too much for Notre Dame as they won, 20-13; Vandy's junior Kristin Ehst led her team with six goals and a sin-
GET RID OF YOUR OLD SHOES... 
'


'I 
I 
I 
~ 

student government 
The Problem;~ Old Shoes. 
The Solution;~ Turn 'em into something else. 
Student Government and Nike are collecting used or unwanted athletic shoes of any brand, and then we're going to grind them up and give them new !ife as athletic surfaces and Nike products 

The Goal. 
To collect 2000 pairs of shoes...the number needed to make an entire Reuse-A-Shoe basketball court. 

Collection Sites: 
• 
Residence Halls 

• 
Hesburgh Library 

• 
Loftus 

• 
Rockne 

• 
Decio 


" 
BROUGHT TO YOU THROUGH THE EFFORTS OF: 

student gove:1:7pment 
~. 
•
Turtle Creek(# 1638) •Campus View(#1828) 

• 
LaFayette (# 16) 

• 
Rolfs Rec Center 


• Stu. ~ovt.(-203 Lafun) 
gle assist. 
Notre Dame's Stephanie Fox maintains that the Irish might just surprise the Commodores. 
"They are going to be a good team," she said. "They beat us last year so we are out to redeem ourselves. We are going to surprise them this year because we have improved a lot." 
Vanderbilt lost a single starter to graduation and boasts a powerful lineup with Ehst and junior Susan Napolitano leading the team. Napolitano and Ehst chalked up the most goals for the Commodores, 40 and 35, respectively, in the 1997 cam­paign. Vanderbilt finished last year with a record of 10-6. 
Notre Dame lost four 
starters to graduation but 
boast a powerful pack of 
young talent. Leading the Irish 
this season are the three cap­
tains, seniors Mara Grace, 
Eileen Regan and junior Kerry 
Callahan. Regan accounted for 
20 of last year's goals, 
Callahan fQr 18 and Grace for 
14. These talented upperclass­men combined with the fresh­man should prove to strength­en the Irish attack. 
"Every goal we had on Wednesday, a freshman was involved in assisting or scor­ing," head coach Tracy Coyne said. "It is a good sign for the future of the program." 
Already into the season, the freshman grouping of Lael O'Shaughnessy, Maura Doyle, 
See what's new on the 8cene. 

Courtney Calabrese and Kathryn Perrella have accounted for 31 of Notre Dame's 53 goals thus far; Calabrese leads the freshman with nine goals. 
Sunday's focus will be on the attack. Both the coach and players know that scoring on the transition is crucial. 
"We need to focus on the transitional offense and give the defense a rest," said Fox. 
Coyne stated that in the first 42 minutes of the game only 10 shots were taken but in the last 22: minutes, 14 shots were taken. 
"You cannot beat a team like Colgate without taking more shots,·· Coyne said. "We need to challenge in the transition and score more." 
"We need to do on our setup offense," Calabrese said. "Transitional offense will be imponant and we need to take shots right away." 
One thing is certain that the Irish are hungry for a win. Coyne contends that her team is looking to revert to the ways that won them three over break 
"Every aspect of our game seemed to be clicking," Coyne said about the break. "We got a good number of shots off and got lots of positive turnovers." 
With their craving for an 
upset and thier focus on tran­
sitional offense, the Irish 
might surprise the 
Commodores in their second 
home game of the season. 

.... 

page 24 
Asian American Association -Office of Multicultural Affairs presents Lauren Tom of "Friends" & "Joy Luck Club" 25PSYCHICS A comedic one..woman's journey of self..discovery. "It's a work that one cannot easily forget." -Variety '"An affable, open, graceful actress, Tom is also a versatile performer with admirable comic timing." -Los Angeles Reader "As a chameleon, she makes Meryl Streep look like your aunt Bertha in a wig." -Huzz Magazine " Refreshingly devoid of new age sanctimony, Tom has a humorous self­awareness that contrasts compellingly with her experiences of genuine spiritual epiphany." -Los Angeles Times Sunday, March 22, 8:00pm Washington Hall Ticket: $5 General, $3 Students  


W. B-ball 
continued from page 28 
ing on Dee. I 0 in the Joyee 
Center. In that contest. Notre 
Dame rallied in the sm:ond half 
to a 77-71 victory, ending a 
thme-game losing streak. Aftm 
leading 34-33 at the half, the 
Irish extended their advantage 
to eight points, the largest 
advantage for both teams. 
Purdue rallied to take the lead 
with two free throws and 3:35 
left. The game went back and 
forth until the final minute, 
when the Irish built a four-point 
lead on a jumper and two free 
throws from sophomore Niele 
lvey. 
Oll'ensively. lvey led four play­
ers in double figures with 16 
points, tying a previous career 
high. As a team, the Irish shot 
35.7 percent for the game. Two freshmen, Katie Douglas and Camille Cooper, led the Boilermakers with 18 and 16 points, respectively. Before the win. Notre Dame had never beaten Purdue on the Joyce Center floor. 
The Irish enter this weekend's contest af'ter winning seven of their last nine games and advancing to the semifinals of the Big East Tournament. Notre Dame joins Connecticut, Rutgers and Miami as this year's Big East postseason contingent, the most teams to make the field in conference history. The Huskies and the Scarlet Knights have advanced with the Irish to the Sweet 16 in their respective regions, marking another Big East first. 
Notre Dame advanced to this weekend's regional by defeating Midwest region top-seed and national No. 5 Texas Tech 74-59 on Sunday in Lubbock. Despite playing on the Lady Raiders' home court and losing freshman Huth Riley for most of the first half due to foul trouble, the Irish trailed by only three points heading into the locker room. In the second half, Notre Dame took the lead for good when 
junior guard Sheila McMillen hit two free throws with 8:53 remaining to give the team a 45­44 lead. This sparked a 12-0 Irish run over the next 2:20 to pull away for the win. 
"It was really frustrating to sit on the bench," Riley remarked. "I felt bad to just sit there. I felt like I had to come out the second 
Last Day to get in Alumni -Senior Club Manager Applications 
Apply at the Student Activities Office for the best job on campus! 



half ~.nd do something for the team. 
Riley led the Irish offensive, scoring all 23 of her points in the second half to lead both teams. 
"They amazed me," head coach Muffet McGraw remarked on the win. ''I'm proud to see our team come out with such poise, to come out and beat a team like Texas Tech." 
The dash between the Irish and the Boilermakers is set to tip off tomorrow at 2:30 p.m., and will be broadcast nationally live on ESPN2, as well as region­
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
ally on WIIME-FM. 

Head coach Muffet McGraw talks strategy before the final home game. 

Last Day!!! 
Friday, March 20, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• BASEBALL 




Notre Dame opens conference season on tl1e road 
By ALLISON KRILLA ence. Instead of the previous ted .500 with six RBI and six Associate Sports Editor two-division format, all 11 runs scored last week. "Mr. teams compete for one regular­Clutch" managed to knock in The first 1(, regular-season season conference title with the five of those runs with two outs. games gave the Notre Dame top six teams advancing to the "Our team is pretty confident baseball team a chance to Big East tournament. right now," said Lidge. "We've brush tlw off-snason cobwebs Lidge threw seven shutout been playing well up to this away. innings with seven Ks and no point, and we have a great But now it's crunch timn. walks in an 8-0 win over pitching staff and explosive hit­
Notre Dame (9-7) travels· to Southwest Texas State. ters. l'rovidenen and Connecticut for ''I'm just going out there try­"Our losses have come to two Big East conference open­ing to give the team a chance to some of the best teams in the ing doublnhnadnrs this week­win," said Lidge, who will start country, and we've been com­end, boasting an impressive 7-1 Sunday's first game against petitive." mark since Feb. 25. UConn. "''ve turned the corner The Irish lead the Friars 4-2 
Bnhind Big East Player of thn with my pitching, going from lifetime, including a double­Wnnk. J . .J. Brock. and Big East decent outings to dominant out­header sweep at home in 1997. Pitcher of the Week, Brad ings." Providence (13-5) is led by Lidge, the Irish look to jump Brock and a solid lineup of first-team all-Big East utility out to an early lead in the veterans support the deep Irish player Angel Ciminiello, senior newly aligned 11-team confer-staff. The senior shortstop bat-catcher Scott Friedholm and 
senior shortstop Pat Carey. The 
Friars return 18 of 30 letter­
winners from last season's 26-.·
n~EBIG 1998 Preseason 
23 team. 

Against Providence, both 
catcher Jeff Wagner and third­
baseman Brant Ust have been 
explosive at the plate. In two 
games, Ust batted .714 with 
··· 1. Notre Dame 96 
two RBI and one home run, 
while Wagner's five career 

EAST Baseball Poll 
2. St. John's 82 games against the Friars have yielded five homers and a .631
· · .3!. Rutgers 81 
average. 

"We expect to win the Big
4. West Virginia 80 
East conference, but we won't 
. .. Hall 
58 take any team lightly," said 
Lidge.

56 Notre Dame holds a 3-2 life­While the team has come on back to bad weather." 
time advantage over the strong in recent games, poor If Notre Dame plans to defend
55 
Connecticut Huskies, including weather has kept them indoors its Big East regular-season title, a 7-2 win in 1997. The Huskies and forced the cancellation of a the team needs a strong show­
39 
finished third in the Big East handful of games. But the Irish ing against two of the weaker 23 American division with an 11-don't see the poor conditions as team:;; in the conference. 13 conference mark. UConn (4-too much of an obstacle. "In my opinion, the competi­
21 4) is led by seniors Billy Rich "Most Big East teams have it tion in the Big East is extremely and Jason Edgar, who com­just as bad as we have," said tough," said Lidge. "If you don't 
14 bined for 29 homers and 102 Lidge. 'They've all played on come out ready to play everyRBI in 1997. southern trips, and then come game, any team can beat you." 
The Admissions Office is looking for enthusiastic volunteers to help welcome potential members of the next Freshman Class to Notre Dame. By the end of the month, we will have mailed decision letters to thou.. sands of students who applied to Notre Dame. Hundreds of those admitted will want to visit the University, meet students, spend a night in a dorm, attend classes, and in general, get a se1lse of the Notre Dame community. We initially approached our Hospitality Program members to volunteer to host. Since we can never be certain what the demand for overnight visits will be, we are extending this invita .. tion to any enthusiastic member of Notre Dame. We will offer accomodations on all of the following nights. If you can host a student, please consider volunteering. 
Sunday, April 5 Thursday, April 16 Thursday, April23 
Monday, April 6 Friday, April 17 Friday, April 24 
Tuesday, April 7 Saturday, April18 Saturday, April 25 
Wednesday, April 8 Sunday, April 19 Sunday, April 26 
EASTER BREAK Monday, April 20 Monday, April 27 
Wednesday, April 15 Tuesday, April 21 Tuesday, April28 
Wednesday, April 22 Wednesday, April 29 
To respond, simply complete the bottom portion of this ad, check the day(s) that you would be available to host, clip this section from the paper and drop it off at the Admissions Office: 1 Grace Hall. If you would prefer, you may reply to Susan Joyce by e..mail: joyce.2@nd.edu or phone: 1..7505. Please respond by April3. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact Susan Joyce. On behalf of the newest members of Notre 
•
Dame, we thank you very much for your enthusiasm and generosity. 
NAME: HOME STATE: 
CAMPUS ADDRESS: MAJOR: 
CAMPUS PHONE: E...MAIL ADDRESS: 

--~-~----~-------­

Strip 
continued from page 28 
In the West. Arizona takes on Maryland while Utah matelws up against West Virginia. Arizona is the most talented team in the country, has killed its two opponents. and will do the same to Maryland. Mike Bibby is the best point guard in the coun­try and Miles Simon is last year's NCCA tournanwnt MVP. Utah and WPst Virginia will be a close rnatehup. but who really cares here'? This is going to be the most boring ganw in the Sweet 16 because Jwitlwr team is Fi.nal Four material (we even beat West Virginia in Morgantown). Although both teams are mnrely delaying the intwitable -an embarrassing loss to Arizona -I think that Utah 
·, will delay it longer than the 
Mountaint~ers. 
In the Midwest. Hhode Island nwPts Valparaiso in the most intriguing matchup of the Sweet 16 while Stanford goes at it with Purdue. Rhode Island vs. Valpo should be a great game because it's always exciting to see two underdogs do battle. Bryce Drew is the real deal, but Hhode Island has too many weapons and a coaeh in Jim llarriek who has experience in winning NCAA tournament games -he went all the way a few yt~ars ago with UCLA. 
Hhode Island is the pick here. Stanford won't give Purdue much trouble at all and the Boilermakers will roll over the Cardinal -this on11 could get dirty. When Purdue faces Hhode Island, look for the Boilermakers to roll over and ehokn and for Hhode 
TITANIC (PG-13) DTS 12:00 4:00 8:15 PRIMARY COLORS (R) 
DTS 12:30 3:50 6:50 9:50 Y.t..Dll-NQ(R313) DTS 
1:30 4:20 7:00 9:30 MAN IN IRON (PG13) DTS 1:15 4:15 7:15 10:00 
~SN:i.(PG13) DTS 12:15 2:30 4:40 7:30 9:45 US MAASI-W...S (PG 13) DIS 
1:00 4:10 7:10 9:55 
SaVSun Mat. in [brackets] TWILIGHT (R) [1 :30]4:15 7:30 10:00 THE BORROWERS (PG) [12:45] 
[2:45]5:00 7:15 9:15 AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) (1:00]4:00 7:00 9:50 
). 
Island to pull the upset and get into the Final Four (origi­nally, I had Kansas going to the Final Four and Valpo exit­ing in the first round). 
In the South. Duke and Syracuse square off while UCLA will go to war with Kentucky. I want to pick Syracuse to upset Duke because Duke is the most overrated team in college bas­ketball. Of course, I remember that we beat Syracuse by 20 points AFTEH starting the game out down 11-0. Duke wins here, by default. 
Kentucky-UCLA will be another dirty game. I love the Bruins. but without Baron Davis they will be fighting with an arm tied behind their back all night. They'll make a valiant effort and maybe even come close. but it also could get real ugly real fast. Kentucky-Duke will be a good game because it will expose how overrated the Blue Devils are and send Wojo and his Bobby Hurley-wannabe act home empty-handed as Kentucky heads to the Final Four. 
In the Final Four, Arizona will defeat North Carolina in a game no college basketball fan should miss. Kentucky will defeat Hhode Island in anoth­er good game, setting up a rematch of last year's final game. This year the ending will be the same: Arizona over Kentucky. Bibby and Simon are arguably the two best players in college basketball and will be too much for a very deep and talented Kentucky team-and it won't be as close as you think. 
It will be an exciting game 
and a fitting end to a tourna­
mt~nt that has become the 
most exciting playoff system 
in all of sports. 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Fencing 
continued from page 28 
coach Auriol. "She was on lire." 
"The biggest surprise today, and maybe of the tournament is Nicole's fencing. I'm proud of her." added epee teammate Magda Krol. Krol, last year's champion, began the tourna­ment 9-5. 
Her first appearance in the NCAA championship, Mustilli handled her weapon like a national champion. She domi­nated the fifth round, even while up against Alexandra Korfanty and Charlotte Walker of Penn State, the first and sec­ond-place holders, respectively. 
"The competition was tough, and I was excited. but I was ready for that intensity, and I'm planning on continuing it tomorrow," said Mustilli. 
The Irish will need to keep the fire strong today as they refocus their fencing to the sec­ond-place Stanford Cardinal. For Krol and Mustilli. the tour­nament will continue with them facing Stanford's Jessica Lisagor, who is currently ranked third. 
"Stanford is a new team, with a lot of young talent," Krol said. "We haven't seen them too much yet, but we're looking to have an easy way before the afternoon's finals." 
"We still haven't faced anum­ber of the top fencers," Walsh said. "We're going to have to concentrate on Stanford tomor­row in the optming rounds." 
Still on the schedule for Walsh 
and Brown in the opening 
rounds are the second, third, 
and fourth-ranked fencers in 
Felicia Zimmerman. Erinn 
Smart, and Monique de Bruin. 
In addition, Zimmerman and de 
Bruin, both on the Cardinal 
Friday, March 20, 1998 

squad, are looking to swap Andrzej Ikdnarski will keep the places with the Irish on the fire burning bright. leaderboard. "I expected our exeellnnt fin­
Today's tournament will eon­ish today," said coach Auriol of elude with the first rounds of the team's intense dueling. the men's sabre. The Irish are "And I expeet thn same to hap­confident Luke LaValle and prm tomorrow." 

ANOTHER GREAT GOLFSEASONIS HERE! SPRING PASSES 
Student Daily 9 Hole Rate $5.00 Student Club Rental $5.00 Pull Carts $2.00 
?:ftc .Nnllot,ic Jnstitutc for turopcn11 Studies' coufercJtcc.. 
EUROPE: THE NEW MELTING POT? 
Comparative approaches to migration and minorities of immigrant origin in contemporary Europe. March 23-24, 1998 
I. Overview: National and lnt.,rnational Frameworks: (Monday, March 23, 9:00-11:.10) 
Moderator: Robert Wegs Prof. Alec Hargreaves (Loughborough University) 
"Immigrant Minorities in Europe: A Melling Pot in the Making?" 
Cecile Riallant (ECOTEC Research & Consulting, Brussels) 
"Issues and Prosrec(s ofa Common European Immigration Policyt 
Prof. Bimal G~osn (frlternational Organization for Migration, Gi\o,eva) 
"East-West Migr}llion: Trenils and Policy Perspectives" 
II. 
Politics and Policy: 


A. 
Politics of Migration: (Monday, March 23, 1:00-3:30) Moderator: A:lan Dowty Prof. Gary P. Freeman (University of Texas at Austin) . 


"National Politics and International Migration in Wesl~rn Eurqpe" 
Prof. Sarah Collinson (University of Plymouth and tlie Univet\sity of Reading) 
"Coherent Interests? Coherent Polit:ies? T,he Development ofa Oommon Migration Policy in the 
European Union?" '.• Prof. Gil Loescher (Universitt, ~otr.e Dame) ~) /\,( .• ., "State Responses to Refugee aiid:AsyJ]J."l Flows in We~~pt'Erirope" 1 • 7 ··­
B. Cultural and Social Policy: (Mon#y, M~;~rch 23, 3:45-6:30) !JP~~ator: !:fs~h ~Uttigieg Dr. Rainer Baub0ck (lnstit!lte fjlr Ad'~: anced Studies, Vfenh<t) ·-·· I < "Cultural Minority Rights.JJ{i'Ub'tit:-Education? l..angudge .ii~!l"1leligion Instruction for Immigrant 
Communities" ..., Y J ' -.:... 
Prof. Mark J, Miller {Univer~ty~f'Delaware) 
"The Post War Evolution df"French ugalization P.olicy: Conlinuity;and Discontinuity" 
Ill. EconomidSocial Aspect!;: 

A. Economic Aspects: (Tuesday, March 24; 9:00-JJ:3Q) Moderator: Gil Loescher Prof. Malcolm Cross (UtrecbEUmversity) ·--• ., _ --.:. 
"Migrants and Mi~1o~es in European Labour Marke!!(· Theoryptt!Evide]!c_t," Dr. Jan Rath (Umvers~ty of Amst~rdam) .:;-'"'~ ---, 
"Immigrant Entrepreneurship: Social Capital, Ecol!om_ip.jJ~rtunjtier,Q~ th,e.lnsfitulional Framework" , ...., /' ~ · · ·_...._ Prof. David Cole~n-(Oxf~ Ul)i\.ersity) :·' _--~ ' \/0'{ ;/ -­"Europe's lmmi.J:'rllll!.s: l..abour'1fes_'!urce, De11!_0jJraphit Sal~atioii-qr Uini4._nted Forl!igners?" 
B. Social Aspects: (7;'uesday, March 24, l:00-3:3_Q) Modetator;-Rrumo Vayryn'eh·'-. ·: :-"· Dr. EI~in Kiil'$.at-A~Iers (University of 1;Iarinover) : : , · ~ ·. "Social, Eclf!!omi~-and Political Discrimination of Migro/tts in German Society: Tensions ofSelf­Definitions Betwet,n Multicultural pnd Homocullura/ Sqcifty" 
Prof. BarbataSchmitter Heisler (Gettysburg College) L-­
"Old and New lttimjgrant Min¢iies in Germany: Old Problems al)d !Vew·Challenges" 
Dr. Catherine WithOI de Wenden (Centre d'Ihudes et de Recherches lnternationales, Paris) 
"European Citizenship and Migration" 
IV. Cultural: (Tuesday, March 24, 3:45-6:30) Moderator: Dominic Thomas Prof. David Horrocks (Keele University) 
"'The Burden ofTwo Worlds': Images ofCui/ural Dislocation in the Work ofContemporary Turkish-German Writers" 
Prof. Graziella Parati (Dartmouth College) 
"Shooting a Changing Culture: Cinema and Immigration in Contemporary Italy" 
Prof. Mireitle Rosello (Northwestern University) 
"Immigration in France: Hospitality, Ethit:s or Politics" 
All sessions will be held in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. Faculty and students welcome. 
' 
-.. 
R. NICE GUY (PG-13)· DTS too. 3:15. s:w. 745. 1o:20 
•stadium seating •*No passes 
Friday, March 20, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT 
r::::=============::::l " 
I'LL NEED A. LETTER OF ~ R.ErERE.NC E TO A.PPLY ~ 
@> 
FOR. A. :1"05 IN ANOTHER ~ orvrsroN. ,----------1 ~ 
.... 
.... 
0 
NO (.) 
<J) 
PR05LE/"\. 
\_ 
CROSSWORD 
u 

... FOR A MAN OF 1-\IS • HYGIENE., HE. DOESN'T ~ 
STEAL AS MUCH AS l 
<J) 
YOU'D THINK.. I 
SUSPECT HE'S DRUGS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
You can achieve great things in a new field or by using a new idea. Your quick wit prevents your dynamic energy from lead· ing you astray on an impulse. The brass ring is within reach this time around. 
Taurus:The Aries Moon makes you feel impatient and vaguely persecuted. Today's problems are mostly imaginary. Once you manage to tune out the distractions. great creativity is possible. 

Gemini:You are the ultimate people person today. If your MIKE PETERS 
plans don't include high quality time with others, rearrange your schedule. Conversation is refreshing as well as instructive. 
Cancer: 

You will not change an old, entrenched system by shedding a few tears. Slow down and tune in today. Your best method for coping is to be in touch with your feelings but not to take anything too personally. 
.Leo:Your energy is warm and expansive today. This is the per­fect emotional climate for some kind of pleasure cruise. You can create your own vacation with­out even leaving the house. 
Virgo:You want to remake the
SCOTT ADAMS 
world in your image of utopia, but there is only so much you
t>.NO 11-\E.N HE SAYS 

can do. It is a little too easy to YOU'RE PRONE TO 
become overwhelmed and pas­sionate today. Do not go to work
ANGER AND DENIAL. 
without a plan.15 THAT TRUE.? 
Libra:Your inward focus draws you out of human society today. An unexpected event forces you into a soul-searching mood. With just a little extra thought, you could learn a lot about yourself and others. 
Scorpio:You may need to be forcefully expressive to get your point across today. Others can be annoying, whether or not they know it. For the sake of general harmony, try to be tol­erant. 
Sag:~ttarius:As the life of the party, you are in danger of spreading yourself too thin. The most serious thing that could happen today is that you might run out of steam and have to take a nap. Enjoy your lack of problems. 
Capricorn:Your personal and public lives tug at you relent­lessly today. Give yourself a lit­tle mental space that has noth­ing to do with chores and oblig­ations. Turn the clock face so that you can't see it accidental­ly. 
Aquarius:Get out of the house and leave the neighborhood. You need to stimulate your internal landscape with a change of external surround­ings. Good friends freely exchange an electric excite­ment. 
Pisces:This is the time to addr·ess an issue of conscience that has been quietly gnawing at you. The impulsive solution is the one that feels the best today. When giving, be sure to leave something for yourself . 


ACROSS 
1 Mad dog worry s Spy Han 9 Aware. w1th "m" 
14 Water color 1s Valentine's Day matchmaker 16 Hawaiian 
veranda 11 · Bnlilant 1deal" 20 Ice Follies 
venue 21 Ma1d's cloth 22 Veteran 26 Pennilessness 30 Strait 
(Russia-Alaska 
separator) 31 Confront 32 W1de shoe 
specification 33 Police operation 34 Knob 
35 Nos on a road map 36 Class1c Bill 
Clinton phrase 39 Giant Mel et al 40 .Jazzy F1tzgerald 41 Remove. as a 
knot 43 Award for a knight Abbr 44 Ne1ghbor of Vietnam 
45 Like some kisses and bases 
46 Novelist Hesse 48 Sentimentalists. 
maybe 49 Superlative ending 50 Subject of 
psychoanalysiS 
51 1962 Cary Grant1Dor1s Day movie 59 Actor Bruce of radio's "Sherlock Holmes" 
so Chess fimlle 61 "God s L1ttle 
62 Lachrymose 63 Hardly any 64 Rural carriage 
DOWN 
1 Sheep's sound 2 Slats for eggheads 3 Egyptian boy king 4 Barber's 
obstruction 5 Cooking up 6 Change, as a 
motion 7 Swiped a Comic dog's 
bark 9 Split asunder 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 JeSSICa of 

1976's "King Kong" 
11 Prefix with cycle ~"-+'-+=+'=-l 12 -----de v1e ..o.,j---'+'-+-+=-l 1Jinsult, in slang 
18 Pumpkin­
colored 19 Food seller 22 Out-of-date: 
Abbr. 23 Last Beatles ~~t+=--~..,_=+'-+:+.::'--i album 
1Enwm~~~-24 Gadabout 
.:, 25 Jazzman -=+-=-+-+-l "Fath a" 
-=+'--+'--+-4 26 "The Taming of the Shrew" locale 

27 Change names 28 Even smaller 29 "You betl" 31 April -Day 34 Parachute 
material 35 Babbled 37 Shanty 38 Delay 39 Aah's partner 42 U.S.N. officer 44 Summing-up 
word 45 Flew alone 47 Olympic race 
unit 
48 Conductor 55 Mothers Zubin 
56 .. ----bin ein 

50 "Get outta Berliner" 
here!" 


editors.
57 Gun

51 Explosive in its enthusiast's52 Hasten grp.
53--Khan 54 Thurman of 58 Codebreaker's 

Join The ()bserver
"Pulp Fiction" discovery 

Answers to any three clues in thiS puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 

staff. 
1-900-420-5656 (75~ per m1nute). Annual subscriptions are ava1lable for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS 

Wanted: R~~porters, photograpl1ers and 
The University of Notre Dame Student Union Board would like to inform you that 








AMISTAD 
Cushing Auditorium Friday S:OOPM/1 0:30PM • Saturday S:OOPM/1 0:30PM Two Dollar Admission 

will be playing in place of Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil due to Mr. Eastwood 1s reservations. 
.. 
SPORTS Weekend 
page 28 Friday, March 20, 1998 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
Playing spoiler against Boilers 
By BILL HART regional. Along with the beaten four top-! 0 teams this Assistant Sports Editor Hazorbacks, the Irish arc the low­season, including No. 3 Stanford. est seeded team to advance to the The Boilermakers are led by 
l.ik~> it's male counterpart, the field of 16 since 1996, when 11th­junior forward Stephanie White, wonwn's NCAA tournament has seeded Stephen F. Austin and who averages 20.1 points and 5.7 had its sharn of upsets. 12th seed San Francisco rebounds per game. Purdue also 
.Just ask ~eams like Stanford advanced past the second round. has one of the strongest back­and Memphis. Both had their However, tomorrow will pre­courts in the country, led by sights on a trip to tlw n•gional or sent a difl'erent challenge for the White and junior Ukari Figgs, even the Final Four. However, Irish, as they travel to Lubboek, who averages 14.8 points per both teams bowed out in the Tex. to face ofT against fourth­game. opening round due to improbable seed and Big Ten champion The main weakness for the upsets by lower-seeded teams. Purdue in the Midwest regional Boilermakers is a lack of size, 
But if one had to ehoose the semifinals. with only two players at 6-foot-2 most surprising team in this Entering tomorrow's contest, or above. This plagued them in year's tournament, they would be the No. 22 Boilermakers have the opening round against 13th hard-pressed not to pick the won their past seven games and seed Washington, although they Fighting Irish. received an automatic bid to the were able to pull away in the final 
As a ninth-seed, Notre Dame is field of 64 by capturing the Big minutes to secure a 88-71 victory. 
tied with Arkansas in the West Ten tournament title. Despite The two teams had only one region as the lowest seeded team being led by their third coach in prior meeting this season, clash-The Observer/Kev1n Dalum to advance in this year's NCAA as many seasons, Purdue has Danielle Greene and the Irish hope to pull off another NCAA upset. 
see W B-BALL I page 24 


-
j 

• fENCING 


Irish lead talented NCAA field 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
SportS Writer 
Tlw first day of fencing competition brought no surprises for the Irish. who went into tlw NCAA champi­onships burning to dominate the strip. 
The intensity the team practiced to master has begun to materializ1~. as tlw Irish fired thHir way to the top of tlw standings. 
Aftnr tlw first fivn rounds of both wornpn's npnP and foil, Notrn Dame stands atop the rankings with 44 wins on the day. 
Pnnn Stat1~. the team the Irish are looking to upset for the national championship, placNI a distant third with 34 wins. Hight on Notre Dame's hnPls is second-place Stanford, trail­ing by only two wins. 
"Wn have to maintain our intensity and stay on track. We ean't count out Penn Statn nither," said lwad roach Yves Auriol. "Tlwy'rn still in there." 
Thn women's foil squad made quick work of Penn Stall~. ineluding against Mid-Atlantic/South HPgional Champion Carla Esteva. Both Sara Walsh and Myriah Brown postnd 5-3 virtorins against the Penn State 
S(lph(llllOr!~. 
Tlw biggest wins for Walsh and Brown camn in the fourth round against Ohio Statn. Brown set the pacn, bnginning thn round with a 5-4 virtory ovN Yelena Kalkina. Kalkina, the dnf'ending duunpion, did manage to defeat Walsh latnr in the round. Behind 4-2. Walsh Lind the match at 4-4 bl'fore a judge's ruling took away the tying touch. 
"I receiv~>d a warning in the earlier round because I used my arm to block an attack, but he didn't take away my touch," Walsh said. "But 
The Observer/Patrick Quigley 
Notre Dame burned up the strip, taking an early lead in the NCAA championships. 
then this one did." 
Behind again. this time 4-3, Walsh Their 24 wins ties them with The dominance over Penn State was unable to fight back. Stanford for the lead. carried over to the women's epee 
"After [the ruling! I just lost focus," "Our goal was to get the lead as big squad, as they tabulated only one she stated. as possible as early as possible," Joss to the Nittany Lions. Leading the 
It would be her only loss on the Brown said. way was Nicole Mustilli, whose inten­day. as she tallied a 13-1 mark and is lndividually, she completed the first sity burned her an 11-3 record. in the lead after round five. five rounds with an 11-3 record, good "Nicole fenced excellently," said 
Both Irish foilists were able to duel enough to place her sixth so far in for top finishes on the afternoon. the tournament. see FENCING I page 26 
• JOCK STRIP 

Upsets pave 

road to Final Four 
JOHN COPPOLELLA Spom Wrirer 
With the NBA and NIIL in the stretch drives of' their seasons and spring training beginning in Florida and Arizona, what's the most exciting thing going on in sports? 
Without a doubt it's the men's NCAA basketball tournament. Not to take anything away from the women's NCAA tournament, especially with Notre Dame's drive to the Sweet 16, but there is no event as exciting as the drive to the Final Four. 
So, you ask, who's going to be in the Final Four? Well, for those of you who have read my predictions in past columns, you know that you'll be get­ting a pretty accurate analysis ­after all, it was me who predicted a near national championship for foot­ball this year. Anyway, my picks here may also surprise some of' you, but anyone who has followed this tcmrna­ment knows that the best thing about it is its surprises -when a team like Valparaiso or Rhode Island dethrones a team like Kansas. (Note: these pre­dictions were made before yesterday's contests.) 
In the East, North Carolina will bat­tle Michigan State while Washington will face Connecticut. Here North Carolina will survive Michigan State's Mateen Cleaves, one of the best play­ers you've probably heard the least about. Washington will upset an over­rated Connecticut team. True, UConn has talent-Khalid El-Amin and Richie Hamilton will both play in the NBA -but they never seem to play up to their ability, and that will cost them here. Plus. their center (the Vanilla Ice look-alike) will be deci­mated by Washington's front line. If. by some chance, UConn survives, they will surely lose to North Carolina in the Elite Eight; if not, Washington will lose to North Carolina. 

see STRIP I page 26 

®w 
vs. Purdue, Fencing,

• 
Q) • •
NCAA Championships at 
Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 

Baseball opens Big East season
Angela Athletic Faciliry, 
vs. Rutgers, 
Saint Mary's College, ~ 
see page 25
~ 
Saturday, I p.m. 
Thursday through Saturday ..... 
at Providence, 

CIJ Women's Lacrosse seeks upset win
~: Saturday, noon 
Track,

S¢ 
see page 23
at Wabash College, 
at Toledo, 
'flw 
Saturday, noon Saturday, TBA 
~ 






