s ~ 
• Cubs win. The Chicago Cubs made it into 
• Looking for a good book? How about a classic 
Tuesday

the playofts with a 5-3 victory over the San 
movie? Check out Scene for the top I00 books in the 
Francisco Giants in a one-game playoff 
~nglish language and the I00 greatest movies ofall
~ UBB I 
SEPTEMBER
ttme. 

~ ~ 
Sports· 12 
Scene ·10 -11 
29, 1998

-

" 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO 27 
Kramer's neighborhood 
Developer plans to buy up blocks ofhouses 

Off-campus houses like these are being bought en masse by landlords and rented to students 
By MAUREEN SMITHE News Writer 
/\s senior yPar approadws, many sludPnts anxiously await tlw oppot·tunitv to omliran~ a gn1atnr sPnse <;I' ind<1(Wmlnnco and n~sponsibility -tHtmely, moving orr ram pus. 
l.ots ol' tlwm l'lock to tlw familiar. !oral places lik<1 Turtle CrnPk, Campus ViPw, CollegP Park and Lafayette Square. to nanw a few. But Mark Kt·anwr's surr<1ss is proof that tlw lure ol' leaving 
tlw  dorm  <~xtends  lwyond  
apartnwnt complexes.  
K ranw r  owns  Do m u I'  

f'roJH'rtins, a rom pany that rPnts out houses to students. Two and a hall' years ago, his 

Dunbar gets four year sentence 
As.mt.:iatcd l,rc~~r~ 
SOUTII BI·:NIJ 
A judgP sonlnnrnd fornwr NotrP llatJH' boostPr Kimlwrly Dunbar on Monday to four yPars in prison for Pmlwzzling $1.2 million from IH•r l'ornwr Plllploynr, lora! linn J>ominiark Mnrhanintl. Inc. 
llunbar. 2'J. allegndly used the rash to buy girts for ntrrent and f'ormPr Notn~ l>anw football playPrs. TIH~ judge ordet'tHI Dunbar to pay bark all of what shn stoln, citing his disgust at lwr "unwavering determination to financially rapt~ this compa­ny." 
Dunbar clutched a tissue in lwr hand and dabbml lu1r eyes repeatedly as St. .Joseph 
see DUNBAR I page 4 
company owned ono house to n~nt to Notre Damn students; sincn tlwn. he addod 2R more. and he nxpeets that number to keep rising in coming years. 
StudonL-; currently rent hous­es owned by Domul' on Washington. St. Louis. St. Josoph, Carroll and St. l'etnr's streets, as wnll as South Bend Avenun. Domul' Property's goal is to havn sixty to 7 5 hous­os availablo to rent within the next five ymtrs. 
"We buy a few houses on a bloek and eventually add oth­<1rs to nil in tlw gaps," said Kramer. "For example, we started with just four houses on Washington Street, and we havo gr.~>wn to nine contiguous housos. 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil
. 
By FINN PRESSLY News Writer 

i\ nn<HI for more 24-hour space in dormitories dominat­ed the agenda ol' Monday's Campus Lifo Council mooting, drawing from a report pre­sPntnd by the Community Life Committee. 
Committoo chair Matt Mamak dividnd tlw issue into two parts -improving 24­hour space within the resi­dence halls, and on the cam­pus as a whole. Mamak first addressed the committee's progress with residence hall space. 
"We're going to idon ti l'y dorms that need better 24­hour space," he nxplained. "Once we identify the dorms, we'ro going to meet with the hall leaders, the rectors and see what changes can be 
Senior Emily Edwards cur­rently rents out a Domur Properties home with six other students. 
"I definitely prefer living off campus, and I think everyone should live oil' senior year," sho said. "There haven't br~en any problems so l'ar this year with the house. I suppose it will be tough getting to school once the· snow comes." 
Kramor fnels similarly about oll'-campus living. 
"All students should experi­ence it." he said. "It really is an education in itself. It teaches the need to pay rent, bills and utilities." 
Although the move oil' cam-
see KRAMER I page 4 
The committee sent surveys to each hall, asking leaders to report on the condition ol' the 24-hour space in that dorm. While he rncnived few corn­plaints from the newer dorms. Mamak said that many of the oldnr halls are in desperate need ol' better 24-hour facili­ties. 
"Wn want to look at more temporary space -what we can do with what we have now," said Matt Mamak, not­ing the success ol' Heckers, the new 24-hour establishment in South Dining llall. llis commit­tee has concentrated on the library and LaFortune Student Center for improvement. 
"I think it would be helpful to study Rockers now that it's open 24-hours, and evaluate its usage," said Father David Scheidler, rector of St. 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Clause will be taken up by Academic Council 
By TIM LOGAN Assistant News Editor 
More than one year after the University issued its Spirit of Inclusion statement, the spot­light is once again shining on Notre Dame's legal non-dis­crimination clause. 
The Executivn Committee of the Academic Council voted Monday to consider a resolu­tion calling for an amendmnnt to the clause -one which would add sexual orientation. The Council will discuss the issue at its Oct. 
tion in the non-discrimination policy of our Univorsity would be an integral step toward making tlw Spirit of Inclusion a reality," she said in a state­ment on Sunday. 
Other activist leaders echoed llnllrung's sentiments. 
''I'm delighted and I just hope that it aetually passes," said Aaron Kreider, eo-presi­dent ol' the Progressive Students Alliance. The PSA is one of sevnral student groups which has been lobbying the University to chang<~ the non­
discrimina­
8 meeting. lion clause. 
In its closed T h e meeting, the 'IHOPE THAT THE ISSUE Studont 
Exeeutiv<~ WILL BE FlJLLY Dis-Senate Commitl<~n did voted 22-2­not make a rec-CUSSED AND I'M OPTIMISTIC 
4 on Sept. ommendation as THAT IT WILL BE.' 16 to pass a to whether or resolution not the Council calling for 
should pass the SON/IE FOR'l1N t h e resolution; LEWIS HALL. SENATOR A cad em i e 
rather, its deci­sion will enable continued debate on the issue. 
Committee members stressed that it is still uncer­tain as to whether the Academic Council will support the amendment. 
"I really have no idea Iii' it will be passed I." said vice president and senior associate provost Tim Scully, who sits on the committee. 
Members of the Executive Committee contacted were unwilling to discuss specil'ics of the meeting. 
Alyssa Hellrung, eo-presi­dent of Outreach ND -the group formerly known as GLND/SMC -hoped the mea­sure would pass. 
"Inclusion of sexual orienta-
Council to take up the issue. One ol' the two senators who opposed the resolution was Hyan Costantini, from Morrissey IIall. 
"I disagreed with it then, and I do now," he said, point­ing out that the University would be more vulnerable to discrimination lawsuits if it had such a clause. "To opr.n ourselves up to potential law­suits, that ... does not serve the interests of the school and does not serve the interests of the students." 
Lewis representative Sophie Fortin was one of the leading advocates of the Senato's rnso­lution. 
''I'm glad they've been 
see COUNCIL! page 6 
Me01bers debate 24-hour space availability 

Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life discussed the need 
made." see CLC I page 6 
for more 24-hour social space at Monday's CLC meeting. 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Why can I complain? 
I'm not going to be subtle about this. Sometimes, 1think life just sucks. Things always go wrong. The lines arc too long, the food's not that great, even now I'm complain­
ing over my work. C.R. "Teo" Teodoro 
However, I am con-Illustrations Editor stantly reminded of this. What is good? What is bad? Who is to say what is good and what is bad? And speaking of which, what do I have to complain about? 
It seems that I'm stuck in neutral at times. that I'm not going anywhere. Still, there are things going for me. I have my health. I may not be a world-class athlete, but I'm in good enough condition to exercise and climb trees. 
I am attending a good school. Despite the fact that it is pretty homogenous here, the educa­tion is excellent. I've been in worse places any­way. Even though the tuition is high and I have to work to cover some of my expenses, I was able to get financial aid, so I can't complain. 
I know some pretty good people, and some pretty good people know me. Even though I don't have so many friends, I do have a few very good friends. 
I am not starving or dying. I have a clean dry place to sleep and rest. I have clothes to keep me warm when it gets cold, and a place to wash up when I get dirty. Even the running water and electricity are things that I can't take for granted. 
My relationship with my family is good, pos­sibly exceptional compared to what I have heard from some of my peers. I respect my mother, and she has taken good care of me. I have a brother and a sister, and we three would help each other if we needed to. I even know my Lolo and Lola (grandparents), who are quite healthy and active. Even my grand­father is in pretty good shape. Aunts, uncles, cousins -we all know each other and live with each other. It was hard leaving home. 
My material possessions are numerous and costly. Just in my room alone, I have a cordless phone, a computer with a 36-bit scanner and HP 890 Color.Jet, a portable radio, and refrig­erator. 1have 40 or 50 COs, and I'm not going to count the number of books I have on RPGs. 
I am even self-confident in my abilities and talents. I am a proficient illustrator, and have decent art skills. 1may not be the best, but I can still draw. I can analyze and think like an engineer better than most Arts and Letters majors. I can find my way around a computer. Even my Kung Fu is looking better than before. 
What do I have to be dissatisfied about? I don't want to sound rude like some other peo­ple, who definitely have as much as, if not more than, I do. I keep trying to remernber that there are people much more unfortunate than I am. These people would probably be eternally grateful just to be able to experience and partake in what happens in my life. 
I don't want to be ungrateful for what I have. I have to remember what I have and not com­plain so much about the bad things in life, because life can be so much worse. I some­times act cynical and criticize much around me, but I want to be keenly aware of my posi­tion and the position of others. Sometimes I have to learn to shut up and enjoy the so many blessings I have and forget the few curses upon me. In fact, I bet most of these curses are ones that I really deserve. 
In spite of what I have, I should also be thoughtful of others as well. I can't neglect other people who share the same world that I live in. 
So what can I complain about? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Tim Logan  Sarah Dylag  
Finn Pressly  Graphics  
Molly Nikolas  Ken Kearney  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen Lopez  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Dan McDonough  Meg Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough hiday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a memb<:"r of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 29, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


University of Utah frat under fire following alleged rapes 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Another 18-year old woman has accused a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity of raping her. 
Detective Heidi Stringfellow of the Salt Lake City Police Department said this case will probably not be criminal­ly pursued. However, the alleged victim may be called as a witness in the sexu­al assault case Stringfellow is currently investigating, which allegedly occurred at the Kappa Sigma fraternity house on the night of Sept. 4. 
The woman said she will cooperate fully and hopes to testify. 
"I just want a little closure to this," she said. "1 know it's too late for me to press charges, but these guys need to know that they can't get away this. I'll help bring about justice in any way I can." 
The alleged incident occurred Feb. 
20. The woman lilcd a complaint with the SLCPD July 9. 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA Tribes protest handling of remains 
LINCOLN 

Tribal representatives discussed Friday their request for a federal investigation into whether UNL researchers violated an act protecting American Indian remains. The group fin­ished its two-day meeting at the University of Nebraska­Lincoln by discussing investigations and reburial procedures and planning a training session on the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990. The group was formed at the request of UNL to discuss details of the repatriation of about 1,700 remains. Chancellor James Moeser signed an agreement Sept. 1 stating the university would return affiliated and unaffiliated remains. The State Patrol and a university-hired attorney have separate investi­gations under way to determine whether the university vio­lated NAGPRA. Randy Thomas, co-founder of Grassroots NAGPRA. in Lincoln, expressed doubt about the validity of a Nebraska State Patrol investigation, citing state connections to people within the university system. 
• OHIO STATE UN!VEHS!TY 
Staff members killed in accident 
COLUMBUS 

An Ohio State staff member died and another is in fair condition after being hit by a car that went out of control in the parking lot behind Lazenby Hall shortly before 8 
a.m. Friday. Floyd Meadows, 55, of Lancaster, who suf­fered chest and other injuries, died during surgery at 
12:16 p.m., a hospital spokesman said. Meadows had worked for OSU since 1991 and was assistant superinten­dent of buildings for the south district. Eugene Johnson, 37, of Columbus, is listed in fair condition and has a bro­ken leg, a hospital spokesman said. Johnson is a custodial worker in Lazenby Hall, located on Neil Avenue, and has worked with Building Services since July. The driver of the car, Estelle Silbermann, 60, of Columbus, had a fractured wrist and other injuries, the hospital spokesman said. She was released Saturday. Police were unavailable to com­ment on whether she would be charged with anything. All three were taken to Ohio State University Hospitals. 
• StHffH BEND WEATHEf! • NATIONAL VVEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions ami high temperatures 

Taesdars temperatures H L 
Tuesday 79 53 Wednesday~, 75 55 Thursday ro 65 4~ Friday ~ 59 3;6 
Sat~r~ay, \,'t.~ 65 45 
~ .. S'..r;y·~ ............./ '":..r 

66 47 Columbus 78 59 Miami 91 77 80 64 Dallas 96 69 Minneapolis 71 49 74 56 Denver 85 46 Nashville 85 62
Q,Q,QQ8Q(f~u 
70 55 Hartford 71 51 Sacramento 85 55 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
82 60 Louisville 82 59 santa Fe 82 55 
Via Associated Press Graph1csNet 
Albany Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago 

The alleged victim said she was sexu­ally assaulted first in the Kappa Sigma fraternity house and later in the alleged assailant's home. 
"We had gone to a party in the Avenues," she said. "[He] was there and we had met about two weeks earli­er." 

• UNiVERSITY Of SOUTH FLORIDA 
Hurricane misses USF campus 
TAMPA 

Hurricane Georges moved farther out into the Gulf of Mexico, taking its heavy rains and high winds with it, and leaving the Tampa Bay area unscathed. USF, which spent most of last week preparing for Georges, sustained no damage during the weekend, according to Rick Fender, associate vice president for Administrative Services. School closed Friday to allow students and staff to prepare for the hurricane. Low-lying areas were evacuated in anticipation of flooding from the rains. Area residents taped their win­dows or stood in line for sandbags. But it was all for naught. ''I'm relieved, though I think some people were disappointed there wasn't more action," said Bill Heller, dean of USF-St. Petersburg. "We're glad it missed us." Even though campus was closed and all events were can­celed or postponed, USF was not empty. Two shelters, including one designated for people requiring speeial needs, opened Friday morning to house evacuees. 
• M!CH!GAN STATE UNIVERSITY Fourteen vandals arrested at MSU 
EAST LANSING 

Casey Shuck woke Friday morning to the sound of water balloons and paint balls hurling at the Sparty statue. But despite the attack, damage was minimal. The physical sci­ence junior was staked out by Sparty with fellow Spartan Marching Band members, poised to protect the statue from vandalism by University of Michigan students, when about 30 people attacked the area. Shuck, an alto saxophone player. said that at about 4:30 a.m., some people drove by and fired paint guns and balloons at the statue. Shortly after, more people came out of the bushes toting gallon buckets of yellow paint. MSU police Lt. Mary Johnson said the department received a call about the incident at about 5 a.m. Fourter,n people were arrested in the incident. She said warrants are being sought for the students through the Ingham County Prosecutor's Office. Shuck said he and other band members managed to clean most of the paint off the statue, but many sleeping bags and other personal belongings were damaged. 
"The police broke up the party and we had to move it back to the house," she said. "I remember him approach­ing me and we went into another room, the library. We were kissing and a lot of heavy petting was going on. 
"He started undressing me and I didn't want him to. I felt really uncom­fortable and told him not to, but I was heavily intoxicated and I could hardly move. I was about to pass out. I repeat­edly told him no." 
"And that's when it happened," she said. "That's when he raped me." 
The alleged attacker denies all alle­gations. "All of these complaints are untrue," he said. 
The alleged incident occurred in the library of the Kappa Sigma house. 
"There's a huge window looking into the library and all of his fraternity brothers were there at the window watching the whole time it happened," she said. 

Tuesday, September 29, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
--~­


Panel: Current Russian economic crisis is nothing new 
BY MOLLY NIKOLAS 
News Wrirer 
Frustration with tlw mnclia for the misr.ovnrage of tho recent crisis in Hussia fuelod a discus­sion Monday at tlw llesburgh Center for International Studies. wlwre threr~ pannlists spoke about tlw nation's complicated financial problems. 
Tlw lecture, entitlml "Crisis in Hussi a: Tlw Political and Intnrnalional Dimonsions." prn­r:ndPd a quostion-and-abswor sPssion with the pannlists, all l'el­lows of thn Kr11logg lnstitutn fol­lows. Tlw trio mnphasized that tlw crisis has bnrm highly ovor­d ram atized by tlw Anw rican modia. 
l'annlist Arrhin Brown, a pro­fr1SSor of politics at Oxford University, called suggnstions by tho nwd ia that nco nomic wnditions havn suddrmly gottrm worsP in Hussia and that the JWopln may return to commu­nism "nonsense." 
Brown notnd that Hussia has bnPn in a sPrios ol' economic crisns since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 199 I. with this latr~st ordoal 1"11Cr1iving more atlPntion dun to tho dPvaluation of tlw rubin. 
"Economic stability in Hussia has lwconw a l'airv tale without a happy nnding," lin statnd. 
Brown com parnd Hussia's m:onornk productivity now with what it was prior to thn revolu­tion in IIJIJ I. Industrial output 
• SECURITY BEAT 

MON, SEPT. 21 
10:15 a.m. Security responded to a 
two-car accident In the power plant parking lot. There were no injuries reported. 
7:27 p.m. An O'Hara Grace resident 
reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 9:15p.m. Security transported a Badin Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center 
lor treatment of a sports injury. 
10:15 p.m. A Badin Hall resident was 
transported to St. Joseph Medical Center by Security for treatment of a sports Injury. 

today is hall' ol' what it was and agricultural production has dedinml 3(J perc:cnt, with this year's harvnst expected to be the worst,:~~e in years, he said. 
Brown also attributed the lack or investments in manurac­turing to thn poor economic state in Hussia today. On a soci­etal nolo, homicide has doubled in Hussia since 1991. and the murder rate has surpassed that of the United States. which held the highest in the Western world. 
Brown also addressnd the wide correlation between eco­nomic and political policies. According to him, the recent political ordeal has been the culmination of years or strife between the legislative and the 

TUES., SEPT. 22 
3:00 a.m. A University employee report· ed the theft of her vehicle from the C2 north parking lot. The car was later recov· 
ered In South Bend. Security is investigat­Ing the case. 
6:40a.m. Security transported a 
Keough Hall resident to the University 
Health Center tor treatment of a laceration. 
3:50p.m. Security apprehended a sus· picious person Inside the Joyce Center. He was issued a no trespass letter and escort-

exeeutive branches of the 
Hussian government. 
Martha Merritt, an assistant professor of government and international studies at Notre Dame, was another member of the three-scat panel. She com­mented on the insubordination or politicians by explaining the relationship between the loeal regents and the central author­it. 
Merritt detailed the lack of adherence of the local regents to central authority decrees, offering the cause of this the strong ethnic and cultural ties each local regent has to a respective area. 
She eonceded that the moti­vation behind the local regents to act in the best interest of 
ed off campus. 
4:39 p.m. An off-campus student. ri!port'": ed the theft of.hls bike from a bike rack at ···.. DeBartolo Hall. His bike was locked at the 
time of the theft. 
'.,, 


WED., SEPT. 23 
1:55 a.m. A Walsh Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 
2:46 a.m. A Stanford Hall resident ,. 
reported vandalism to his vehicle while parked in the D:?. Mrth parking lot. 
their people was sound. although it often conl1icts with the agenda of central authori­ties, who are trying to act in the best interests of the nation. 
Gabor Toka. the third pan­elist, also attributed the large amount of back wages owed to such people as teachers, doc­tors and military persons to the poor Jiving standards in Hussia. 
Merritt also expressed frus­tration with a Wall Street Journal report on the expand­ing barter system in Hussia, which she contended is false. 
"People have been bartering for things instead of using cash since the days of the Soviet Union," she said. 
All three panelists stated that the recent crisis is only the out­come of several years of insta­bility. They see the lack of con­l"idencc in leadership by the Hussian people as a large fac­tor in the instability along with the poor standards of living outside the big cities. 
Alcoholism is constantly ris­ing, and with local regents con­trolling the imports and exports of speeifie regions, it has been very diflieult to estab­lish common neonomic space in Hussia. 
All thren panelists hope that Hussia can slow down its cur­rent economic tailspin, and they sne printing more money as a way to ease the crisis tremendously. Brown, Merritt and Toka. a professor of poli­tics at Central European University in Budapest, all believe that the political prob­lems can be best helped by bridging the gap between the central authority and the local regents. 
Merritt also noted that thn Hussians have lived under two very different types of rule: one in which they had nearly no freedom and one in which they enjoy a great deal of freedom. 
Merritt spoke of her experi­ence talking with the Hussian people. She told of one Hussian man who told her: "Stalin tried to reconstruct us, Breshncv tried to reconstruct us, every­one's tried to reconstruct us. Maybe we just don't want to be reconstructod." 

Stock contest 'challenges' students with simulation 

By CHRISTINE KRALY 
NewsWrirer 
Participants in the Portfolio Management Challenge embarked on a high-stakes financial adventure yesterday ­they started to play the stock market, with $100.000 to burn. 
A virtual $100,000, that is. 
"[It's] about as real world as it gets." said Brad Gurasich. the financial division director of the 
Notre  Dame  Council  on  
International  Business  
Development.  

The contest, which the Council is sponsoring for its fourth year, is a stock market simulation that began yesterday and will contin­ue until mid-April. Individuals and teams who paid a $20 regis­tration fee for a portfolio receive $100,000 of fictitious money with which to play the market. 
Students design and monitor the portfolios themselves based on 20-minute delayed figures. This allows the students to essentially do real-time trading with the market. 
All the trading is web-based on a site called StoekTrak and is carried out by aetual brokers. 
"Essentially, if you know noth­ing about the stock market, you can learn," said Carin Pankros, director of the Couneil's market­ing division. 
"It [the contest] brings together what you learn in the dassroom to rna! life experience," said Den Henn, PMC co-chair. 
The contest involves students of all majors and all levels of stock market experience, regardless of involvement in the Council. 
"We wanted to host a contest for the students to learn about the stoek market," said Gurasich. 
The contest is split into two categories: freshman/sophomore and juniors/seniors/graduates. When the contest ends in mid­April, the top three portfolio managers in each category will be awarded cash prizes. 






,,,,,,,, 
A Benefit for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK 
AND ~ 


PANCAKE BREAKFAST / ~­tl SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10 . ~ 11:00-STEPAN CENTER 
T -SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 




Oet'u-el'tirj Tk fki~t Rzza/ C3C3fil~ ~[))@ ~QCD~~ l1rnC3~c!.lGlWgg  
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 11:00-12:306:00 & 7:30, the price of yourthe price of your 21arge 1large 1 topping topping pizzaspizza is the time you call.is the time you call. *Plus tax*Plus tax  
Saint Mary's/NO store North Village Mall271-1177 Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPA Visa/Mastercard Accepted  

Tuesday, September 29, 1998
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
players to whom she allegedly gave gifts as a representative of the school while a using the money she stole. member of the now-disbanded Quarterback
Kra01er Dunbar 
continued from page 1 
pus is voluntary, there is only enough on-campus housing for 84 percent of Notre Dame undergraduates. Bill Kirk, assis­tant vice president for Residence Life, supports the idea of off­
campus housing. 
"The University fully sub­scribes to off-campus housing; we need it," he said. 
One of the biggest draws to off-campus housing is the lack of parietals. "Parietals are in place here because of the nature of our housing," Kirk said. "Typically, apartments are set up much differently than the dorms. OfT-campus apartments and houses are not University facilities. so the University can not enforce anything. However, University rules and regulations still apply on and on· campus." 
Edwards likes the more inde­pendent living situation. 
"The advantages definitely outweigh the disadvantages, especially not having to deal with parietals," she said. 
With the growing popularity of living off campus, the onus falls on the South Bend Police Department-not Notre Dame Security/Police -to educate students on the risks and safe­ty precautions. That task has increased with the higher number of off-campus housing options. 
Police Captain Wanda Shock stressed the department's emphasis on safety. 
"We do not expand police controls just because more stu­dents are in a particular area," she said. "The tenants. being students, are different than the permanent residents, and that is our main consideration. They are not from this town and they don't know the area. We do try and make education, help and guidance available." 
Additionally, Shock encour­ages off-campus students to attend police department pre­sentations regarding residen­tial security, finding housing and personal safety. 
"Give me a group of three or more students, and we will give a presentation on any topic of concern," Shock said. 
Occasionally, problems do arise with off-campus students, especially on football week­ends. 
"When neighbors call to com­plain, that constitutes the foun­dation for a warning letter to the students and to the land­lord," said Shock. "If problems continue, an abatement notice follows, with which a possible suit could result. 
"A copy of the abatement let­
ter would be forwarded to the 
University," Shock added. 
"Additionally, if a felony is 
committed, such as drug use or 
burglary, the University will 
hear about it." 
Proof of off-campus populari­
ty is evident from the speed 
with which available Domuf 
Property homes rent out. 
"All but 14 of our houses are 
rented out for next year. and 
most of those remaining have 
tentative agreements already 
in the works," Kramer said. 
Are you willing to speak out about sexual assault or rape? 
Do you have a story to share? Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination would like your help at the Take Back the Night March. Please call Lori at 284-5187. Thank you. 

continued from page 1 
Superior Court Judge Jerome Frese suspend­ed 12 of the 16 years in prison she faced on two Class C felonies and ordered her to pay restitution of $1.2 million to her former employer, Jerry Dominiack. 
Given a chance to address the court, Dunbar told Frese she was sorry for stealing the money from Dominiack Mechanical. She then turned to face Dominiack and his wife in the front row of the courtroom and tearfully told them, ''I'm sorry, Jerry and Connie, for what I've done to you," as the couple held hands solemnly. 
Despite Dunbar's please for leniency, St. Joseph County prosecutor Michael Barnes insisted that she spend time in prison so that "she simply can't walk away from this thing. 
"The fact is, Miss Dunbar was in a position of trust. She capitalized on that position of trust, and she capitalized on it to the tune of $1.2 million," Barnes said. 
Dunbar, who will be eligible for release after serving two years of her prison term, also was sentenced to probation from her release date until Sept. 28, 2014. 
As part of her probation, she must continue making restitution payments to Dominiack and cannot have any contact with the 12 
In addition, Dunbar requires court approval to see former Irish player Jarvis Edison, with whom she has a child. 
She also must cooperate with any civil action Dominiack brings against players to whom she gave jewelry, clothing and trips, including an outing to a Chicago Bulls game that involved Club. The NCAA informed Notre Dame that it could face sanctions for two rules viola­tions. 
Notre Dame athletic director Mike Wadsworth said Monday that the NCAA is still considering whether to penalize the 
'THE FACT IS MISS DUNBAR WAS IN

five current Notre Dame players. A POSITION OF TRUST. SHE CAPI-Dominiaek has 
TALIZED ••• ON IT TO THE TUNE OF

filed a civil suit seeking $1.4 million $1.2 MILLION.' in damages from Dunbar, her moth­er and sister, and MICHAH BARNES five former Notre Sr. JOSEPH CouNTY PROSECUTOR 
Dame players ­Edison, Lee Becton, Ray Zellars, Derrick Mayes and Kinnon Tatum. Because Dumbar was ordered to pay restitution to Dominiack, she will likely be dropped from the civil suit, according to William Stanley, her attorney. 
The gifts became the center of a school investigation that startod "'in February, a_ process intended to probe Dunbar's rela­tionship with Notre Dame players and look for any potential violations of NCAA rules. 
Notre Dame forwarded its findings to the NCAA, which ruled that Dunbar was acting football program. The five current players involved in the trip to a Bulls game were cleared of any wrong­doing by the NCAA in August after the University made them pay back the cost of the trip by making a donation to a charity. 
Wadsworth said school attorneys inter­
viewed Dunbar twice this month to complete their investigation and have forwarded their findings to the NCAA, which has not made any indication when it might issue a ruling. 
"We had notilied them of our intention to interview Miss Dunbar in order to cover every possible avenue we could with respect to our investigation," Wadsworth said. "There isn't any new information with respect to activities by any member of the team or anyone associated with the team or the athletic department." 


--------~--"-~'}.~-~-:~~'"'---\,-.. ,_-":"-~_-.-~-----------_-_------1 
_..~ .. ­

Tuesday, September 29, 1998 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS • MALAYSIA 
Man's 3 1/2 year coma ends 
SI'HIN<;Fti<:IJ>. Mass 

HPiativns of a romatose man said Monday tlwy an~ dropping tlwir bittnr fight to stop his wife from n~moving t.lw fnnding tube that has sustairwd hinr for :{ 1/2 years. Unl(•ss tlw statf' intervnrws. tlw dnrision leaves Miclwle hnn frPe to have llugh Finn's fending tube rPmovl'd aftPr Wedrwsday, when an appeal dPadlirw nxpirt~s. Doctors say Finn is in a ' pPrsistnnt VPgt•tatiV(' state. Finn's brotlwr, .John Finn. issued a statnrnPnt saying he was­dropping his plan to appeal a court ruling that allowPd his brotlwr's wife to withhold food and watPr. "This past wenkend my fam­ily, inl'luding 1\lil'lwlf', had thf' opportunity to disruss amongst otrr·snlves tlw question whirh has lwnn rnntral to our lives tlw past two months. 
Alternative Viagra cream 
W i\Sll INCTON 

!{(~snare hi' rs are turning an t.i-i m pole nee pills and inj(~c.tnd rnedirirws into rub-on ('J'f'arns and gP!s-part of a broad()!" eiTort to make many drugs safl'r and easier to use by litPrally dissolving tiH•m through the skin. l·:arly tPsling shows tlw impotonce eream Topiglan is a !l•ading candidate in this effort to giw patients tar-g~•tt•d rPlief for many ail­nwnts. with fPWPr side pf'f'ects. "It's a no­brain(~ r," said () r. I r win Go Ids t n in oI' BostonUniwrsity, a urologist loading studies of tlw irnpotencn croam who expn<:ts many of today's medicinns eventually to be appliodto tlw skin. "It has a lot of US(~ in lots of drugs." Topiglan nnPds mort• studios, Goldstein cau­tions, and is not for sale. 
Transplant first in France 
LYON 

!\ 4S-ynar-old man who got a now right­Among them was Tien house, earrying banners that Anwar has been accused of hand and fornarm is nating and drinking AsSOCIATED PRESS Chua, the chairman of the said, "Free Anwar." erimes that include unlawful normally four days after the 13-hour newly formed Coalition for A phalanx of riot police­homosexual acts and leaking 
surgery. the hospital roported Monday. The KUAL!\ LUMPUR People's Democracy, an men, drumming their state secrets. IIe has denied grafted right hand, the hospital said, was Hiot police ehased a few umbrella group of organiza­shields, advanced on the slo­the charges, saying they "wnll colornd"-an apparnnt sign of satis­thousand pro-reform tions that back ousted gan-shouting activists and were politieally motivated. factory blood circulation. The five-line hos­aetivists Monday through the Deputy Prime Minister then began to chase them Protests, unheard of for pital statement idnntifi(1(1 the patient for neon-lit streets of downtown i\nwar Ibrahim, SUARAM through the lanes and into nearly a decade, arc becom­the l'i r s t time by rw nw: C I in t II a II am. Kuala Lumpur as protesters spokeswoman Elizabeth the main shopping distriet ing a regular feature in Hospital personnel said llallam is from defied warnings to gather for Wong said. where startled holiday shop­Kuala Lumpur. Nnw Zealand but lives in Perth. 1\ustralia. a second conseeutive week. Prime Minister Mahathir pers quickly huddled into On Sunday, more than "Clint llallarn ... had a vnry good wm~kend," Witnesses saw dozens of Mohamad's decision to fire corners. 10,000 supporters trudged tlw statmnent said. It added that the dress­protesters being grabbed, and arrest Anwar, his former Police also turned their for several miles to attend a ing was <:hanged and"the will be able to get handcuffe and pushed into heir apparent, has stirred wrath on reporters and pho­gathering organized by up today." Neithnr thn press servicn for the red police buses. Police did anger in Kuala Lumpur, the tographers, shouting "Go, go, Malaysia's opposition Islamic 
Lyon public hospital system nor doctors at not say how man were capital. go!" party. Edouard Herriot Hospital could confirm detained. There were no Undaunted by police Anwar and 16 of his asso­Poliee had blocked cars whether Hallam did, indned, leave his bed immediate reports of batons, tear gas and nearly ciates have been held under from entering a village road Monday. The hospital described his condi­injuries. 150 arrests, several thou­a harsh security law that leading to the rally. tion simply as "satisfactory." Dr. Jean­!\ loeal human rights sand supporters of Anwar allows indefinite imprison­The day before, poliee beat Michel Dubernard. co-leader of the trans­group, SUAHAM, said 60 continued protests on ment without trial. Neither demonstrators and used a plant u~am. was not irnnwdiately available people had been taken into Monday, a national holiday. Anwar, arrested eight days water cannon to disperse a l'or comment. custody in the protest that Chanting "Heformasi" or ago, nor any of his detained rally of more than 3,000 peo­lasted for more than an "Heforms," the demonstra­allies have been arraigned in ple. Twenty-nine Malaysians hour. tors marched from a court-a court. were arrested. 

House passes bill to lower loan rates 
ASSOCIATE.D ·PRESS of poor children. And he passingin ibis Congress," guaranteed loans.
Nasdaq: 

teacher-preparation col~ said Rep. Marge Roukema. The new formula, basEld
+80.07 1739.22 

WASHINGTON leges would have to provide· R-N;J. "I say so because on Treasury bill interest
-4.37 A bill that would hold information to would·be these are the issues that rates and added points, 
NYSE: down the college student studonts about what per­count to the Amerkan peo­would hold down what stu­
u 
518.03 loan interest rate for all centage of graduates pass ple." dents pay by giving a sub­
+2..'15 

borrowers and raise the teacher examinations. "This is what should be sidy to lenders. As a result, maximum grant amount for The measure, which getting through to the the rate for students would
S&l' 500: 
Composite 

needy students passed the would renew federal pro­American people, that we be 7.46 pcrcen t for now
104H.6'J Volume:8,108.4 +J.<J4 681,715,389 House on Monday. grams such as student aid, are doing our work," said loans -the lowest rate in 
The Senate could consider is one of the few education Rep. Carolyn McCarthy, 0-17 years -down from 8.23
VOLUME LEADERS 

an identical measure as bills to lind bipartisan sup­N.Y. percent last year, sponsors
rpM!'ANY nrKtH •n,rtlt\N(iJ: S <jA!N I'Rirl· 

early as Tuesday. port this election year. It is A key provision would say.
PHI. LOMJ'll JI.H IJEI.I. ~J.IH •2.1XJ bH.Ub 

·-lH.OH I.S.IIJ IN'IF.J.ct,RP rJ<.:rc -1-llJ -1..11 87.00 l/NICOM CONI' llCM li!'IUI UNCII .ltdiH vote, also includes incen­those dealing with the larg· rates are determined l'or raise the maximum autho­'HI ,,Hour <IITSV -1-I.Ull The bill, passed by voice less politically eharged than change the way interest The measure would also 
US( 0 S\'SH.\.1\ t:~co -.2K .\1) 6b.2~ YMHlt ll:"'lf" YIIOO .s.7.i +b.iJ.I 127.94 

tives for people to become er numbers of children in student loans. A previously rized amount for Poll Grants 
<'<lMJW: c·<>MJIU'IU~ Cl'll .z.ns • oo J2.KI Ml<'lll>~<lfl M\FI -1.5.1 -1.75 Ill..!I 

kindergarten through the to $4.500 a year in 1999­
-IIJ.H6

\iUWORI.D l OMI~Hi W<:OM ·.SU -.25 teachers by offering to for­enacted change had threat· 
AFP Photo 
Two plain-clothes policemen arrest a protester in the midst of a demonstration in downtown Kuala Lumpur. 

Riots for reform go into week two 




LXCIH INL  XCII  +2.7!i  +I.U  42.00  give their student loans if  12th grade.  ened to drive away many  2000, up from $3,000. The  
they teach in urban or rural  ''This is one of the most  lenders because of the low  amount would gradually  
districts with large numbers  significant bills that we will  return on their government- rise to $5,800 in 2003-2004.  

Tuesday, September 29, 1998
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Council 
continued from page 6 
responsive to both the student and faculty senate," she said. "I hope that the issue is fully discussed and I'm optimistic that it will be. The Academic Council is a forum where this can be discussed a greater length than it has been before at Notre Dame." 
The amendment issue has been the subject of significant debate since last August, when the University adopted the Spirit of Inclusion statement. The Spirit of Inclusion calls on members of the community to aecept homosexuals and con­demn harassment. 
This statement was made in lieu of an addition to the non­discrimination clause, and is thus not legally binding -but an amendment to the actual elause would be. 
Debate on the topic reached a high point last March when Father David Garrick, a com­munications and theater pro­fessor, resigned in protest of the administration's policy towards homosexuals. In the wake of that debate, the Faculty Senate passed a reso­lution calling on the University to include sexual orientation in the clause. 
That Faculty Senate resolu­tion is currently being taken up by the Academic Council. 
The Executive Committee is 
composed of 11 administra­
tors and faculty members. It 
sets the agenda for meetings 
of the Academic Council, 
which is comprised of admin­
istrators, faculty members and 
students and which makes 
major decisions concerning 
academic policy. 

Guliano addresses El Salvador human rights 
By RUTH SNELL Nt:WsWrirer 
Discussing the political and economic future ofEl Salvador and touching on th(3 dangers of sweat shops, John Giuliano spoke Monday at Saint Mary's College about human tights in the country. 
The talk, titled "Keeping Hope Alive; HumanJUght!:; in El Salvador," was on a theme inspired by the ·50th anniver­sary of the United Nations Human Rights Declaration. 
"It:d be nice to say that there was great hope in the peace that the end of the Salvadoran war brought, but that's not true," he said. "There is no peace until justice. The great hope is in the faith of the peo· ple," 
Giuliano first began working in El Salvador during its dvi! war, and is now part of a com­munity in Guarjila, the site of the. College's Spring break pil• grimage. 
He spoke about the hope that the war's end brought, and how that hope will never be fulfilled as long as there is injustice in El Salvador. 
According to Giuliano, neo· liberalism is the current politi­cal movement in El Salvador, and is "the most powerful enemy or the poor in Latin America." 
But the prevalence of sweat shops is an even bigger prob­lem for the people there. Work in such "maquiladores," noted Giuliano, is taking the place of work on the farms. 
Companies such as Nike have taken over many agricultural areas, he said,· and· now people buy the food they once grew, Farming has become too ~){pensive, apd the $5-per~day wages paid in "maquiladores" are inUationary. 
However, Giuliano said he does find hope in the "group of young people trying to build something new in the shape of the. old;'' · 
.Comn:mnities of resistance durh1g ·the war were based on the tenet o(each according to. his needs. With the pilgrimage, Giuliano is trying to. restart and rel)uild this idea as central. · 
"It is risking your future to walk with the rest of us. It is a kind of discipleship," said · Guliano. ''I believe in people-to· people work. It seems the big­ger we get, the richer we get, the farther away we become from what we're supposed to be doing. 
"It is grt;lat hope to see a com­munity now close to 100 ... try" ing to live their life according to God," emphasized Giuliano. 
Many young people of Guarjila lived in refugee camps while they were school-aged. Now, when free school costs $300 a year, it is positive that some of the 19 and 20-year­olds are starting ninth grade. 
"Also, our first college stu­dent is studying agriculture," Giuliano said. "That's hopeful." 
The presentation was spon­sored by Campus Ministry, the Spes Unica Resource Center (SURV), and COLT, a group of students, staff and faculty that examines a particular issue throughout a semester or year. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
Edward's Hall. "What popula­tion is using it? Is it just resi­dents on South Quad, or is North Quad using it as well?" 
A.J. Boyd, student govern­ment's CLC bylaws reviewer, suggested that a key ingredi­ent in successful 24-hour space is to have an area con­ducive to conversation. 
"The quintessential college experience is the 4 a.m. phi­losophy discussion," he said. "And that needs to include both genders ... The Huddle just doesn't lend itself to that activity." 

The Community Life Committee is still in the process of collecting data on both issues. 
"What I see in the future is something in the next two weeks in regards to either the library or the Huddle," said Mamak, adding that organiz­ing information on residence hall space may take much longer. 
The meeting adjourned fol­lowing recognition of Kelly Folks as the new Judicial Council chair. 




Tuesday, September 29, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 ­

Sanchez discusses Latina future 


GOP rejects farm bill 

By JESSICA DELGADO 
Nt'W'i '&'ri1cr 
l~lisa Sanelwz, prnsidnnt and CI~O of MANA, a national Latina organization, outlined lwr ideas to rPbuild thn llispanit: r.ommu­nily in a IPrturn last night in tlw IIPshurgh Library auditorium. 
"Latinas havP llw pol.Pntial to Ill' th•~ IPadPrs of thP nnw mii­IPIJnium." said Sandu~z. 
"MAN;\ was rrPatPd ... to dPvPlop tlll' l(~adnship taiPnts and skills of Lalinas through forusnd community snrvicn and rhaiiPnging barrinrs to and ad van ring o p portu n i ti ~~ s f'o r Latinas," shn said. "WP arn able to r.onw tognthnr, share our idnas and problnms. and help otlwr l.atinas grow in a positive ••nvironnwnl. Wn want to show what womPn havn to otTer." 
MANA is a community of women building the futuro togntlwr, making a transition from loosn-knit volunteers to a fully staff'nd, pro-aetivist, Latina organization. 
"Women bring to the table a s•~nsn of fair play, great wis­dom, and look for thn win-win situations," said Sandwz. 
MANA has several national iniliativm;, including "Latina VotP 'CJ6," a women's vote pro­jnct. "llm·manitas," a mentor­ing stay-in-sr.hool projoet for middln school girls, and "Dia de los libros/clia de los nii'ios (Day of books/ Day of ehildron)," a eelnbration of bilingual literacy bnginning in infancy. 
Sanchnz was born in Silver City, N.M., where she grew up in a strong family. Shn says she is driven by the inspiration given to lwr by her mothnr, who lnd a local miners' union. 

and other Latinas of her com­munity. 
"My mother has always taught me to think outside the box, and never set limits for myself." she said. "1 was an 8 year-old standing in a picket line for nine months helping my mother and other women in our community stand up for what we believed was right." 
She was at her mother's side in the Empire Zinc Strike in Hanover, N.M., which has been made famous by the movie "Salt of the Earth." 
From that background, Sanchez has complete faith in the who!•~ Latina population. 
"We need to grow from a point of' strength, not a point of weakness," she said. "Our com­munity needs our Latinas to be visionary leaders, open minded risk takers that aren't afraid to speak up l'or themselves or speak their minds." 
The theme of all the pro­
grams and activities sponsored by MANA is "Hebuilding Latino Communities for the 21st Century." 
"We march to our own tune, and we need to make sure we have a betterment of our com­munities as a whole," she said. "According to the small busi­ness sector, Latina owned com­panies are the fastest growing companies in the country. Growing by an amazing 436 percent." 
Sanchez concluded her lec­ture by stressing the need for public involvement, in order for MANA's goals to be accom­plished. 
"You need to find a mission that matters to you. We are about setting examples, and not forgetting who we are or where we came from," she said. "We need to remember one thing, Our country will have a woman president in 20 years and she will probably be Latina." 


Got News? Share it with us at 1-5323 

• 
CORRECTION 

• 
An article in yesterday's Observer incorrectly reported the makeup of the Academic CoUl'lcil. The body has four student representatives, not one, and. contains 2o elected faeulty members in addition to administrators and the four students. Additionally. provost Nathan Hateh, not University President Father Edward Malloy, chah·s the Exe{~utiv{~ Committee. Malloy approves any resolutions passed by the Council before sending them on to the Board of Trustees. 

• 
In another artiele, professor Gail Mandell's name was spelled incorrectly. 


The Observer regrets the errors. 



Please recycle me 
University of Notre Dame Intcrm}tional Study Program in 


ANGERS, FRANCE 
1999 -00 Acaclemic Ycar 
"LeaYing Friends & Family • Making Friends & Family" 
With l'l'Ofessor Paul McDowell 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 30, 1998 
7:00 P.M. . ROOM 117 DEBARTOLO 
Retuming studNits will be on hand w answer IJUCslions 


Today~ September 29, 1998 For titne an<lloeation of n1eeting, eall: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Ton1 Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Hepublieans on Monday n~jeeted a Demoeratie proposal to give $7.3 billion in aid to America's farmers, opting to stay with their own plan despite the threat of a presidential veto. 
The Democratic aid plan was narrowly defeated by a 7-6 vote among Senate agricultural bud­get writers when offered by Sen. Tom !larkin, D-lowa dur­ing a seven-hour long confer­ence hearing. Instead. tho Republican plan, worth about $4 billion, is included in the $61.3 billion agricultural spending bill that will be pre­sented to the full Congress for approval. 
"I don't see this as a partisan issue," Harkin said in pushing for passage of his plan. "We have a terrible emergency out there and we've got to address it." 
Democrats touted their plan as better and cited Congressional Budget Office estimates of the increased money to states under their proposal. Iowa for instance would get $600 million under the Democratic plan but $235 million under the GOP proposal. 

Similarly, Minnesota would get $483 million under the Democratic plan but $227 mil­lion under the GOP proposal. 
The government predicts farm income will drop nearly 16 percent this year to $42 bil­lion as the agricultural econo­my suffers through its worst downturn in more than a decade. A worldwide grain glut has pushed commodity prices to their lowest levels in memory. 
President Clinton last week urged Republicans to increase their proposed $3.9 billion farm bailout plan. 
In a letter to congressional leaders, the White House bud­get office did not mention the GOP plan but said Congress 
must provide "income-based assistance consistent" with the president's 
proposal, including the increase in prien supports. Clinton's senior advisers will urgn the president to veto any lngislation that falls short, the letter said. 
Both sides agren they want to 
help farmers but have boon 
unable to agrne on how to do it. 
Democrats want to givn farm­ers an extra $5 billion through a program that subsidizns growers when commodity pricos fall bnlow sot l!~vnls. Wheat growers would got 57 cents a bushel more, corn pro­ducers 28 cents. 
Hepublicans contend that idea is a throwback to the days before the 1996 farm law when subsidies were tied to crop pro­duction. 
Some economists fear such a program could lead to excess production and depress prices. 
The GOP plan includes $1.7 billion in direct payments to all growers; $1.5 billion in disaster relief for this year's crop losses; and $675 million that would mostly go to growers in the upper Midwest who have suf­fered a series of crop failures over the past five years. 
Lawmakers also rejected con­troversial plans that would have labeled imported meat and ordered mandatory livestock price reporting. Instead, budget writers decided to study the issues before taking final action. 
The overall bill far exceeded its original $56 billion price tag. 
Some of the amendments added include a $27 million package of pet projects that included money for ailing Georgia cotton growers and money help install irrigation systems in drought-stricken areas. Lawmakers also agreed to add $50 million to help Alaskan salmon fisherman hurt by years of disease. 






VIEWPOINT 
Year of the Woman: The Further Erosion of American Culture 

page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE; P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR.  ...Michelle Krupa  ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPartlin  
VIEWPOINT EDITOR  .... Eduardo LJull  AD DESIGN MANAGf.R ....................... Brett Huelat  
SPORTS EDITOR.....  . .... Kathleen Lopez  SYSTEMS MANAGER............  . ... Michael Brouillet  
SCENE EDITORS...  . ............ Sarah Dylag  CONTROlLER..  ............... Dave Rogero  
Krisri Klirsch  WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................jennifC:r Breslow  
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR  ...... M. Shannon Ryan  GRAP111CS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella  
PHOTO EDITOR  ..................Kevin Dalum  

The Observer is tht: independcm newspaper published by the students of the Univcrsiry ofNouc Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe adminisuation ofeither institution. The nt:Ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as possiblt:. Unsigned cdirorials represent t~e opinion of the majority of the Editm-in-Chief. M.maging Edi(Qr, Assistant Managing Editor and dcpanmcm t-diwrs. Commemarics, letters and columns prcscm rhc views of the authors; and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all re-J.ders. The fft"e ex.prc~~ion of' varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63I-53U Managing Editor/As...istant ME 63 I -4541 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 63 I-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sporrs 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Marr's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.c,.nd.edu Office Manager/Generallnformarion 63 I -7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• Nor 
BUT THE Sworm 
In 1992, there was a trendy new concept in America over the so-called "Year of the Woman." The whole movement was spurred on by the con­troversy over the Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings. Due to the way 



Sean 

Vinck 
in which the Senate handled the mat­ter, many Democratic women were prompted to run for Congress in order to "change the patriarchal system." The most visible examples of these women were the Democratic U.S. Senate candidates in California, Illinois, and Washington states. 
Patty Murray, Dianne Feinstein, Barbara Boxer, and Carol Moseley­Braun were elected to the most famous deliberative body in the world, the United States Senate. 
Three of these women are up for reelection in 1998 (Dianne Feinstein was elected to fill an unexpired term in 1992. and was reelected in 1994). All three up for reelection this year­Boxer, Murray, and Moseley-Braun are in very close races. 
It appears that all three may go down to defeat in November. Moseley­Braun has been trailing in her bid for reelection for nearly a month. Her opponent, state senator Peter Fitzgerald is a millionaire and has the resources to significantly outspend the incumbent. In California, Boxer is either tied with or trailing her Republican opponent, depending upon which poll you believe. Boxer's chal­lenger is the state Treasurer of California, Matt Fong, who has signifi­cant appeal in the Asian-American community. Murray faces a staunch conservative, U.S. Rep. Linda Smith, in her reelection bid. This race has the distinction of being the only senate matchup in the country in which two women are the major contenders. 
All three Senators were elected on platforms of dogma tie left-wing femi­nism. All are vehemently pro-abor­tion, having even voted to keep legal the now infamous partial birth abor­tion. The three senators have also 

supported so-called "disap­family pointed" planning with programs. President All are Clinton staunch after defenders months of of the silence on Clinton the Monica adminis­Lewinsky tration, issue. 
·having Boxer, you even might appeared recall, with the bludgeoned discredited both Sen. president Bob at Packwood fundrais­and Justice ers after Clarence the release Thomas on of the their treat­Starr ment of 
report. women. Boxer, Murray, Murray, who 
and Moseley-Braun are categorical politi­cians-nothing really distinguishes them besides the fact that they were women elected all in the same year. They have, in the words of Linda Smith, become "hush puppies" of the Democratic party. 
The three have claimed to be leaders of women. It is a lie. They represent a very narrow group of women-those dedicated to a culture of death. In a way, they are representative of the left-wing, feminist movement as a 

----------------Tuesday, September 29, 1998 
whole in this country. They make loud claims to self-righteousness on the issues like abortion, and brand anyone who disagrees with their dogmatism "anti-woman." 
The three seem to be frustrated over their increasingly uphill campaign. Moseley-Braun, plagued by years of scandal, resorted to using racial epi­thets to respond to criticism from columnist George Will. Boxer claims 
that she is 

intended to call Jor Clinton's. resignation, instead reversed herself and is silent on the matter. 
The experience of electing politicians solely on the basis of gender is a fail­ure. The example of Boxer, Murray, and Moseley-Braun show how politi­cians who claim to be prototypical of a demographic group, i.e.women, really aren't representative of those groups at all . .Moseley-Braun is among the more corrupt politicians in Washington today, with investigations swirling about her like bacteria in a toilet. Boxer is notoriously unpopular with voters and fellow senators for her unpleasant demeanor. Murray, having a poor legislative record, is not distin­guishable for anything. Women do not deserve such representation. 
Moseley-Braun, Murray, and Boxer are not leaders. They are merely advocates of an extreme form of femi­nism. It's time to remember that lead­ership in our form of democracy involves speaking to a variety of con­stituencies and entertaining a number of differing view points. The experi­ence of the "Year of the Woman" has proven only that the three senators have eschewed statesmanship for shameless political advocacy under the guise of being women's. leaders. 
It is my hope that in the future we can elect senators who function pro­actively in a deliberative body, sena­tors who have less of an interest in their political future than in the wel­fare of the American people. It is a cliche, to be sure, but all cliches hold an element of the truth. 
Moseley-Braun, Boxer, and Murray have not lived up to this standard. With their willing accomplices in the press, they have sought to distinguish themselves simply by their gender. The American people have an innate wisdom that recognizes that leadership consists of more than being a member of a demographic group. As Arianna Buffington put it, "women can be lousy politicians as well." 
Americans must recognize these three senators, and others like them, for what they are -hacks for a partic­ularly insidious political movement that can only result in the further ero­sion of American culture. 
Sean Vinck is a sophomore PLS major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 

'show me a good and gracious loser and I'll show you a failure.' 
-Knute Rockne 

•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
CHAIRMAN HYO&, Mi-l­YOU 8C APOWGIZ./N6 ANYMOR/3 FOR YOUR. )'' F!V5-Yt;4R &XTRA­MARITA/...AF~!R  NO, I THINK fTaaJW 8t3 UNrAIR 7V THe PR£51­/?t3NT 7lJ 1M OUT 7H!3R& ON THe APOta7YC/RCIJIT t</Hitb H/3G 577U... / lOt/RING,.  

-~------­



VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, Seprembcr 29, 1998 ------------------os~ERVER -----------------------------------------------page9 
• THE BEllE OF SAINT MARY'S • PFWGRESSIVE SnmENT ALWU\!CE 

Pro-Wrestling Gets a Tongue Lashing 
Tlw following, I'm afraid, must be brought to your attl'ntion: 
-Unl'ortunatt~ SnntPnen Utterml by a Saint Mary's l'oli!ical ScinncP l'rol'nssor of thn Wonk: "Whnn he didn't fullill his promisns artnr the elnction, liberal 

================ interest
groups 
gaVIl 

President 
Clinton a


Mary Beth 
tOQMiU.(l­

lashing."
Ellis 

Animated 
Movie 

Preview 
Appearing in Disnny's "Tiw Black Cauldron" That Sounds l!istl~rh!.ngly Likt~ a Porn Film: "Kiki's Delivery Sorvu:o . 
-Most I !oartrtlnding Moment of the President's Vidnotapnd Tnstimony: When hn requested pnrmis­sion to takn a brPak in ordnr to reliovn tlw First Bladder. 
Thatlming said, wn may now turn our altonlion to morn important mattnrs, namely: Prol'ossiona! wrnstling. 
This is a finn sport, orw consisting primarily of largn, nasily of'f'nndt•d mnn stomping about a canvas ring whiln occasionally throwing punr.hns that. miss tho opporwnt by snvnral inchns, if' not soveral feet, ynt still sornolww caust~ tho rneipinnt's head to snap back in drarnatie fashion. I once had the delightful oppor­tunity, undnr boyl'rinnd duress (this is a pnrson, I must warn you, who in all snriousnnss onco announced, "You know, Ijust don't understand why mort~ pnopln don't likn pro wrestling") to attend a World Wmstling Federation matr.h. Notro Dame, in its tWV(W mrding quest to improve tho cultural welfare of' thn South Bnnd area, booknd tho WWF at the Joyce Athlntic and Convocation C1mtor horn on campus, pos­sibly lwcausn tlw administration was unable to land tlw Michiana Truck Cap Expo. Thero was scarcely an occupind trailnr on that magical !\V111ling when I bolwld with my own oyes ... St<mo Cold Steve Austin. 
Mr. Austin, for thosn of you with lives, is thn curnmt WWF champion of--what is it now?--I believe the wholn nnlirn universe, or at least all homes partic­ipating in WWF pay-per-view program events. Mr. Austin rises above the rolo of nwre athlete to that of soda! commentator with deeply held philosophic idnals-ones that lw poignantly expresses by giving ovnryonn tlw linger a lot. Some wrestlers are even morn con~hral than Mr. Austin, such as a person by l.lw namo of'" Billy Cunn," who attnnds rnatehns in rwon grnen tights mnblazorwd "Mr. A_s." We also hav1~ a modnl of intolleetual activity in a gentleman nanwd AI Snow who, at the match I was !i>rtwwte nnough to attnnd, appnared before the crowd bearing tho docapitatod !wad of a mannequin and suspended it high in the air, yelling, 
"What does everybody like'?" 
"IIEAD!" the spectators not sitting fifty feet from thn llousn of' Hockne bollowed. 
"What dons everybody LOVE?" 
"!!HAD!!" 
"And what dons nverybody NEEJ)'!!!" 
"I lEAD!!!!" 
Tlw rnonHmt as a whole was, quito possibly, the apex of Western civilization. 

You willlw rolived. I'm sure, to learn that the WWF, always with the greater good of the community in mind, deigns to make available a wide variety of Ol'!kially Licensnd Products for you, the people, to purchaso. One may, for a mere $52, acquire a Stone Cold Stove Austin Skull Ring ("Just like the kind Stone Cold wears!"), or an AI Snow "Got Ileac!?" t-shirt, or oven-and I hope and pray that someday I will be abl1~ to afford this-a Steve Austin pool cue. May we all be so fortunate. 
HEYEIW QUESTION: If Middle America is so focused on being-well, middle of the road-why, having seen the astounding (one might even say, SUS­PICIOUSLY astounding) success of' Stone Cold Steve Austin, have we not seen wrestlers calling themselves "Stone Tepid," "Stone Lukewarm," or perhaps "Stone Hoom Temperature?" Must we always be so extrem­ist? 
Mary !Jeth Ellis is a senior at Saint Mary's College majoring in English writing and political science with a minor in US history. If she were a professional wrestler, she would like to be referred to as ''The Under Writer." 
The uiews expressed in this column are the uiews of the author and not necessarily The Obseruer. 


Administrative Barriers to the Prevention of Discrimination 
I want to believe that Administration of Notre "equal treatment for all our Notre Dame and St. Dame does not discriminate against gays, lesbians, Mary's sisters and brothers," and the Faculty and bisexuals. I want t.o ================ Senate voted unanimously in 
believe that we are following favor of' rea!'!1rming its support Christ's greatest command-and placed the issue on Academic
A 

mont to love our neighbor, and Council's agenda. Most recently

aron 

that when God comes to us as a on Sept. 16, Student Senate voted gay, lesbian, or bisexual per-22-2-4 in favor. son we do not turn him or her But why raise this issue now?

Krel·der 
away. 

But then I remind myself that the University refuses to include sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause. That the officers would fail to do so is very disturb­ing. For over eight years students and/or faculty have been passing resolutions, petitioning, and rallying for inclu­sion. But still the administra­tion effectively reserves the 'right' to discriminate. Why'? Why do they do this unless they intend to discriminate'? It scares me. 
The history of modifying the non­discrimination clause is long and frustrating. It's the all too com­mon story of students advo­cating justice and adminis­trative barri­ers being nreeted in their path. As fat· back as the fall of 1990, the Student Heport to the 

Board of Trustees called for including sex­ual orienta­tion in the nondiserimina­tion clause. More recently, since GLND/SMC was kicked out of the counseling center after meet­ing there for nine years, on Feb. 20, 1995, the Campus Life Council recommended recognition. Patty O'Hara refused and as a response created the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. In the commit­tee's final Feb. 29, 1996 report it argued, "That the Vice President for Student Affairs should raise to the University officers the issue of modifying the nondiscrimina­tion clause which appears in University publications to include sexual orientation." O'Hara agreed. Also in May 1996, Faculty Senate added their sup­port to including sexual orientation. 
But O'Hara stonewalled. She didn't raise the issue. A year later the issue remained un­addressed, so the College Democrats organized stu­dents with a large rally and petition campaign in the spring of 1997. In response, that fall we were 'blessed' with the Statement of Inclusion that says a lot of good things, but fails to hold the University legally accountable for its actions and allows dis­crimination to continue unsanctioned. Its hypocrisy and utter lack of value was demonstrated when an 'out' priest and theater professor, Fr. David Garrick C.S.C., resigned, writing in his March 17, 1998 let­ter, "It is my intention that this resignation shall serve as a heart-felt protest against the refusal of the officers of the University to make a legal provi­sion for the equal rights of gay persons at Notre Dame." Fr. David Garrick believed that if sexual orientation was included, he would not have been suspended from the Basilica and would not have resigned. Over 1,300 students, faculty, alumni signed a petition in support of Fr. Garrick and 
Why after eight years of countless resolutions and Administrative stonewalling should students light the good fight? Simply put: because we can win! 
Unlike previous attempts, this time the decision cannot be merely vetoed by O'Hara or the 

Officers. For the first time ever, it will go before the Academic Council (hopefully on Oct. 8). If the 
Academic Council passflS it, then it will either be enacted or sent to the Board of' Trustees for !'inal approval. A win in the Academic Council would be an unprece­dented victory. Student support will inlluenee tho Academic Council's ded­~..-...._....,,, sion. 
This issue is 

effectively a 'no-braincr'. It is separate 
from the issue of GLND/SMC recognilion and is in com­plete accor­dance with Catholic moral teach­ings. Do I really need to 
present argu­ments that people should 
not be discrimi­nated against based on their 
sexual orienta­tion? Hopefully everyone on cam­pus recognizes that 
discrimination is unjust and that the University should be held legally aecount­able. Conservatives, lib­erals, moderates, Catholics, atheists, and radi­cals should all find common ground here. Last spring, I was deeply heartened to read a letter from four College Republicans voicing their support. PSA wants to cooperate with everyone willing to work for this eommon cause. 
Discrimination is stupid. Denying a student or faculty member a promotion, a job, a scholarship, a place on a sports team, a committee position, or a speaking engagement at the Basilica because of their sexual orientation is unjust. But the Administration can do all of those, and it has not shown willingness to stop. Students need to raise their voices and push this issue through Academic Council. Sign the petition, help collect signatures, talk to your friends, and I'll sec you at the next rally! We plan to win. May love vanquish hateful discrimination and let's treat everyone as neigh­bors, as Christ would have us do. Don't you wish that Fr. David Garrick was still here'? 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate student in the sociol­ogy department. This column appears every Tuesday written by a different member of the Progressive Student Alliance. His views do not nec­essarily reflect the views of the Progressive Student Alliance. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Progressive Student Alliance or The Observer. 





rocras 
ina 

100 books to read (instead of doing Your homeworkJ The 100 best Eni!lish-lani!uai!e novels of the 20th century as drawn uP by the editorial board of the Modern library: 
I . "Ulysses," ] ames ]oyce 

2. 
"The Great Gatsby," F. Scott Fitzgerald 

3. 
"A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man," ]ames Joyce 

4. 
"Lolita," Vladimir Nabokov 

5. 
"Brave New World," Aldous Huxley 

6. 
"The Sound and the Fury," William Faulkner 

7. 
"Catch-22," Joseph Heller 


8. 
"Darkness at Noon," Arthur Koestler 

9. 
"Sons and Lovers, " D. H. Lawrence ro. "The Grapes of Wrath," John Steinbeck 


I I. "Under the Volcano," Malcolm Lowry I 2. "The Way of All Flesh," Samuel Butler I 3. "I 984," George Orwell I 4. "I, Claudius," Robert Graves I 5. "To the Lighthouse," Virginia Woolf I 6. ''An American Tragedy," Theodore Dreiser r 7. "The Heart is a Lonely Hunter," Carson McCullers I8. "Slaughterhouse Five," Kurt Vonnegut I 9. "Invisible Man," Ralph Ellison 
20. "Native Son," Richard Wright 2 I. "Henderson the Rain King," Saul Bellow 
22. 
"Appointment in Samarra," John O'Hara 

23. 
"U.S.A." (triology),]ohnDos Passos 

24. 
"Winesburg, Ohio,;, Sherwood Anderson 

25. 
"A Passage to India," E.M. Forster 

2
6. "The Wings of the Dove, " Henry ]ames 

2
7. "The Ambassadors," Henry ]ames 

28. 
"Tender is the Night," F. Scott Fitzgerald 

29. 
"The Studs Lanigan Trilogy," ]ames T. Farrell 

30. 
"The Good Soldier," Ford Massox Ford 3 I. "Animal Farm," George Orwell 


32. 
"The Golden Bowl," Henry ]ames 

33. 
"Sister Carrie," Theodore Dreiser 34· "A Handful of Dust," Evelyn Waugh 


35. 
"As I Lay Dying," William Faulkner 

36. 
"All the King's Men," Robert Penn Warren 

3
7. "The Bridge of San Luis Rey," Thornton Wilder 


38. "Howard's End," E.M. Forster 39· "Go Tell it on the Mountain," ]ames Baldwin 
40. "The Heart of the Matter," Graham Greene 4 I ."Lord of the Flies," William Golding 
42. 
"Deliverance," ]ames Dickey 

43. 
"A Dance to the Music of Time," Anthony Powell 44· "Point Counter Point," Aldous Huxley 


45. 
"The Sun Also Rises," Ernest Hemingway 

46. 
"The Secret Agent," ] oseph Conrad 

47. 
"Nostromo," Joseph Conrad 

48. 
"The Rainbow," D. H. Lawrence 

49. 
"Women in Love," D. H. Lawrence so. "Tropic of Cancer," Henry Miller 5 I . "The Naked and the Dead," Norman Mailer 


52. 
"Portnoy's Complaint," Philip Roth 

53. 
"Pale's Fire," Vladimir Nabokov 54· "Light in August," William Faulkner 


55. 
"On the Road," Jack Kerouac 

56. 
"The Maltese Falcon," Dashiell Hammett 

57. 
"Parade's End," Ford Maddox Ford 

58. 
"The Age of Innocence," Edith Wharton 

59. 
"Zuleika Dobson," Max Beerbohm 6o. "The Moviegoer," Walker Percy 6I. "Death Comes to the Archbishop," Willa Cather 


62. 
"From Here to Eternity," ]ames ]ones 

63. 
"The Wapshot Chronicles," John Cheever 

64. 
"The Catcher in the Rye,"].D. Salinger 

65. 
"A Clockwork Orange," Anthony Burgess 

66. 
"Of Human Bondage," W. Somerset Maugham 

67. 
"Heart of Darkness," Joseph Conrad 

68. 
"Main Street," Sinclair Lewis 

69. 
"The House of Mirth," Edith Wharton 

70. 
"The Alexandria Quartet," Lawrence Durrell 7 I. "A High Wind in Jamaica," Richard Hughes 


72. 
"A House forMs. Biswas," V.S. Naipaul 

73. 
"The Day of the Locust," Nathanial West 

7
4. "A Farewell to Arms," Ernest Hemingway 

75. 
"Scoop," Evelyn Waugh 

76. 
"The Prime ofMiss]ean Brodie," Muriel Spark 

7
7. "Finnegans Wake," ] ames ]oyce 

78. 
"Kim," Rudyard Kipling 79· "A Room with a View," E.M. Forster 8o. "Brideshead Revisited," Evelyn Waugh 8 I . "The Adventures of Augie March, " Saul Bellow 


82. 
"Angle of Respose," Wallace Stegner 

83. 
"A Bend in the River," V.S. Naipaul 

84. 
"The Death of the Heart," Elizabeth Bowen 

85. 
"Lord ]im," Joseph Conrad 

86. 
"Ragtime," E .L. Doctorow 

87. 
"The Old Wive's Tale," Arnold Bennett 

88. 
"The Call of the Wild," jack London 

89. 
"Loving," Henry Green 

90. 
"Midnight's Children," Salman Rushdie 9I. "Tobacco Road," Erskine Caldwell 


92. 
"Ironweed," William Kennedy 

93. 
"The Magus," John Fowles 94-"Wide Sargasso Sea," jean Rhys 


95. 
"Under the Net," Iris Murdoch 

96. 
"Sophie's Choice," William Styron 

97. 
"The Sheltering Sky," Paul Bowles 

98. 
"The Postman Always Rings .Twice," ]ames M. Cain 

99. 
"The Ginger Man, " ].P. Donleavy Ioo. "The Magnificent Ambersons," Booth Tarkington 





OTHE

Tuesday, September 29, 1998 -----------------------------page ll
BSERVER 



I On I On 
The 100 best movie distractions 
The American Film Institute ranks the ToP 100 Movies of the Past 100 years: 

I . "Citizen Kane," I 94 I 
2. "Casablanca, " r 942 
3. "The Godfather," I 972 
+ "Gone With the Wind," I 939 
5. 
"Lawrence of Arabia," I 962 

6. 
"The Wizard ofOz," I939 

7. 
"The Graduate," I 967 

8. 
"On the Waterfront," I954 9· "Schindler's List," I993 ro. "SinRin' in the Rain," I952 


I I . "It's a Wondnful Life," I 946 I 2. "Sunset BoulevarJ," I 950 I 3 . "The Bridge on the River K wai," I 957 I4. "SumeLikeitHot," I959 
"S "
\VI

I 5 . tar wars, I 97 7 r6. "All About Eve," r950 r7. "The African Queen," I 95 I r8. "Psycho," I 960 19. "Chinatown," 1974 
20. 
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," I 975 

21. 
"The Grapes of Wrath," I 940 

22. 
"2oor: A SfJace Odyssey," I968 

23. 
"The Maltese Falcon," I94I 2 + "RaRing Bull," I 980 


2
5. "E.T. The Extra,Terrestrial," I 982 

26. 
"Dr. Strangelove," I964 


27. "Bonnie and Clyde," I967 
28. 
"AfJocalypse Now," I 979 

29. 
"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington," I 939 3o. "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre," I 948 3 r. "Annie Hall," I 977 


32. "The Godfather Part II," I 974 33· "High Noon," I952 
34. "To Kill a Mockingbird," I 962 35· "It Happened One Night," I934 
3
6. "Midnight Cowboy," I 969 

37. 
"The Best Years of Our Lives," I 946 

38. 
"Double Indemnity," 1944 39· "DoctorZhivago," 1965 


40. "North by Northwest," I959 41. "WestSideStory," I961 
42. "Rear Window," I 954 43· "King Kong," I933 44· "The Birth of a Nation," I9I5 
45. "AS~tree tear Name . r 95 I
d Deszre, " 

46. 
"A Clockwork Orange," I97 I 

47. 
"Taxi Driver," I 976 

4
8. "]aws, " 1975 49· "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs," I937 so. "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," I969 


5 I . "The Philadelphia Story," I 940 
52. "From Here to Eternity," I953 
53· "Amadeus, " I984 54-"All Quiet on the Western Front," I 930 
55. "The Sound of Music," I 965 
56. "MASH," I 97o 
57. 
"The Third Man," I 949 

58. 
"Fantasia," I 940 59· "Rebel Without a Cause," I955 6o. "Raiders of the Lost Ark," I 98 I 6I. "Vertigo," I958 


62 . "Tootsie," I 982 
63. 
''Stagecoach," I 939 

64. 
"Close Encounters of the Third Kind," I 977 

65. 
"The Silence of the Lambs," I 99 I 66. "Network," I976 


67. 
"The Manchurian Candidate," I 962 

68. 
"An American in Paris," I95I 69. "Shane," I953 


70. "The French Connection," I 97 I 7I. "Forrest Gump," I994 
72. "Ben,Hur, " I959 73· "Wuthering Heights," I939 74· "The Gold Rush," I925 
7
5. "Dances with Wolves," I 990 

76. 
"City Lights," I 93 I 77· "AmericanGraffiti," I973 78. "Rocky," I976 


79. "The Deer Hunter," I 978 ­8o. "The Wild Bunch," I 969 8 I . "Modern Times," I 936 82. "Giant," I956 83. "Platoon," I 986 84· "Fargo, " I996 85." Duck Soup," I 933 
86. 
"Mutiny on the Bounty," I935 

87. 
"Frankenstein," I 93 I 

88. 
"Easy Rider," I 969 89· "Patton, " I97o 90. "The]azzSinger," I927 9 I. "My Fair Lady," I 964 


92. "A Place in the Sun," I 95 I 
9
3. "The Apartment," I 960 

94. 
"Goodfellas," I 990 95· "PulpFiction," I994 


96. 
"The Searchers," I 956 

9
7. "Bringing up Baby, " I 93 8 

98. 
"Unforgiven," I 992 

99. 
"Guess Who's Coming to Dinner," I 967 I oo. "Yankee Doodle Dandy," I 942 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 29, 1998 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Sosa singles Cubs into first playoff since 1989 
AssociJted Press 
CHICAGO 

Now, Steve Trachsel will be remembered for more than giving up a historic home run. He's pitched those lovable losers, the Chicago Cubs, into the play­offs. 
With a home run boost from castoff Gary Gaetti and two key singles by Sammy Sosa, the Cubs beat the San Francisco Giants 5-3 Monday night to win the frenetic one-game playoff for the NL wild-card spot. 
They survived despite a three-run rally in the ninth by the Giants. Barry Bonds, who grounded out with the bases loaded to end the seventh, came up again with the bases loaded but managed only a sacrifice fly. 
The Cubs haven't been to a World Series since 1945 and haven't won one in 90 years, yet they're going to the postseason for the first time since 1989. 
And now it's on to Atlanta, an extension of one of the most exciting seasons in their storied, sometimes laughable, always eventful, history. The Cubs,"'who won six of nine from the Braves, play Game 1 Wednesday. 
Trachsel (15-8), who surrendered Mark McGwire's 62nd home run, didn't give up a hit until pinch-hitter Brent Mayne singled with one out in the seventh. 
Trailing 4-0, the Giants went on to load the bases with two outs and brought Bonds to the plate. But the three-time MVP, who has struggled in the postseason, grounded out against reliever Felix Heredia and slammed his helmet to the ground. 
In the ninth, reliever Kevin Tapani gave up a pair of leadoff singles. That brought on Terry Mulholland, who went eight innings and thre~ 121 pitches Sunday. 
Stan .Javier hit an RBI single and pinch-hitter Ellis Burks walked, loaded the bases with no outs and the score 5-1. But Bonds flied out, and then Rod Beck earned his 51st save, getting .Jeff Kent on an RBI forceout and retiring .Joe Carter on a popup. 
It was Carter's final at-bat in the majors. At 38, the hero of the 1993 World Series is retiring. 
The Cubs nearly did not get this far, losing six of their previous eight games, including Sunday's finale in Houston. But they were saved when Colorado raJ­
lied from a 7-0 deficit to beat the Giants 9-8, forcing the first one-game playoff in the NL since 1980. Trachsel and Giants starter Mark Gardner kept it scoreless until the fifth inning. 
Henry Rodriguez singled and then the balding Gaetti lifted a two-run homer to left, his 19th of the season and eighth since joining the Cubs on Aug. 19 -his 40th birthday-after his release by St. Louis. 
Gaetti raised his arms in triumph as the ball landed in the left-field seats and after a delay as fans littered the field, he emerged from the dugout for a Sosa-like curtain call. 
Singles by Lance .Johnson and Sosa drove out Gardner (13-6) in the sixth. Rich Rodriguez relieved and after Grace walked to load the bases, Matt Mieske, called up from the minors earlier this month, lined a two-run single to right for a 4-0 lead. 
Sosa went 2-for-4 with a pair of singles, scoring in the eighth on .Jose Mesa's wild pitch. 
Sosa finished the regular season, because this game's numbers counted, with 66 home runs, trailing McGwire's 70. But Sosa gets something McGwire doesn't -a chance to play into October. 
• ~NTf:HHAU. Fmns;u.t Walsh defeats Badin,continues on warpath By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA Walsh's scoring, amounting to spark for the offense by Howard's offense and pre­ed an interception that proved Sports Writer a 25-7 halftime lead. Badin returning an interception for a served the vietory for Breen­to be a crucial turning point. answered with a touchdown in touchdown on the first play of Philips. The game remained score­orr to an exeellent start, the second half, but it proved the game. The 7-0 advantage "Overall the team finally less until late in the first half, Walsh looked to extend its two to be too little too late as the would last until late in the played together," eommented when Cavanaugh began a game winning streak when it Walsh defense held strong to first half when Jenny Choi Choi. "This win is a major threatening drive. Running faced Badin last Sunday. preserve the lead. connected with Natalie Kelley confidence booster than will back .Jodi Jones, the center of The game proved to be an "This game gave us a lot of for a 20 yard touchdown pass, help prepare us for the rest of the Cavanaugh offense, lead a offensive battle in which confidence," Parnell said. cutting the Howard lead to 7-6 the season." charge that placed Cavanaugh Walsh emerged victorious, 25­"Our offensive line played going into halftime. within striking distance. .Jones 13. Striking early and often, excellent and we proved to Despite several threats by Cavanaugh 6 and quarterback Allison Krilla Walsh set the tone for the ourselves that we could put Howard, the seeond half Lyons 0 earried Cavanaugh to a 6-0 entire game with four touch­points on the board." belonged to Breen-Philips. lead as time expired in the downs on 4 possessions in the Walsh faces Cavanaugh on The combination of Choi to Having scored 37 points in first half. first half. Wednesday, Badin takes on Kelley produced another the last two games, Lyons Both defensives held strong After foreing Badin to punt Howard. Breen-Philips touchdown and didn't figure to stage a defen­as Lyons and Cavanaugh of the first drive, Amy Krayer a 12-7 lead. Howard refused sive duel with Cavanaugh on exchanged possession for the returned the kick to the 3 yard Breen-Philips 12 to go down quietly, and Sunday. remainder of the game, result­line. Carolyn Parnell scored on Howard 7 threatened again with a see­However, a defensive duel is ing in a Cavanaugh victory. the next possession on a quar­ond-half drive. what they encountered, as "We are proud of our defen­terback bootleg play, and With Breen-Philips and However, Katie Leieht eame Cavanaugh edged Lyons 6-0. sive performance," Sara Kelly Donally converted the Howard coming off loses in through with a erucial inter­The fist sign that the game Kaufman said. "We really extra point to give Walsh a 7­their previous games, both ception that swung the would be determined by needed this win to keep spirits 0 lead. teams looked to rebound in momentum, and the game, in defense occurred during up." A trio of touchdown passes the match-up on Sunday. favor of Breen-Philips. .Jenny Lyon's second drive. Lyons plays Pangborn on from Parnell to Kelly Perry Howard captain .Julie Wahoske lead a defensive Just as Lyons was threaten­Wednesday, Cavanaugh takes accounted for the rest of Wernick provided an instant attack that staved off ing to score, Kelly Orsi provid­on Walsh.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, in 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 

- NOTICES THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  LOST steel watch with blue crown. Blue and black face. Very senti­mental. $50 for return. X2254 WANTED I'------------1.  www.icpt.com I FORSALEI FOR RENT I PREPAID PHONE CARDS L-.------------1. 198 MIN. $20 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CALL 258-4805 CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  NO Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288·2726 NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  -not in student section­Call Stephanie @273-0893 ARMY GA's available Call Brian @ 243-2623 Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU tickets. Please call 908-722-7901.  
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm  ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK...  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with  Always buying and selling N D toot­ 
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm  "TAKE 2"  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  ball tickets. 289-8048  NEED 1 STANFORD TICKET  
Sun: Noon -Midnight  2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15  That Pretty Place, Bed and  frame.New, never used.still in plas­ PLEASE CALL x1613  
When you need copies.  SALES and ... EARN $$$$.  Breakfast Inn has space available  tic.$225 219-862-2082  
we're open!  Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, Padre!Lowest prices! Free Meals, Parties & Drinks.  tor football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from  TICKETS  I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Stanford (Oct. 2) tor my baby broth­er and his friend (a prospective). If  PERSONAL  
Early Spring Break  ..Limited Offer**. 1800-426­ campus. Toll Road,Exit #107, 1-800­ you can help me, please call 4­ FREE PHONECARD 1 per  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  418-9487.  Need 1 STANFORD TICKET for lit­ 0562. Ask tor Michelle.  home.$25 activation.Send  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  tle sister.  SASE: Brenda Horton,Dept.O,POB  
Awesome  I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort"!·  Please call Brian @ 243·2623  83461, LA,CA 90083  
Beaches.Nightlite!Departs From  shirts tor me and my dad. If you sell  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  BUYING N.D. TICKETS """""""  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  them or have a few extra, please  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  ALL GAMES... 277-1659  
Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties  help me out. Call Michelle at 4­ TO CAMPUS. 243·0658.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Need a babysitter during the  
$339!Panama City Room With  0562.  GAMES.272-6306  FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS  games? Call  
Kitchen, 7 Free Parties  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  ALL GAMES 272-7233 ....... .  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  SPRING BREAK '99!  info:  
$149!1998 BBB Award  Cancun*Nassau*Jamaica*Mazatlan  http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  TICKETMART Inc  HELP!! I need TWO tickets to the  SHANNON @ 284-4451  
Winner!springbreaktravel.com  * Acapulco*Bahamas  219-291-7153.  BUY-SELL-TRADE  STANFORD game. Call me (Amy)  
1-800-678-6386  Cruise*Fiorida*South Padre  Notre Dame Football Tickets  at 243-0247.  Are you hungry?  
Travel Free and make lots of  258-1111  Hungry for love?  
"OWN A BMW"  Cash!Top reps are offered full-time  THE PRIMROSE PATH  No student tickets please  No...Gardettos  
Earn $$While you Learn  staff jobs. Lowest price  BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED  Need 4 Stanford GAs  
247-0736  Guaranteed. Call now for details!  15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS  x350·1 Eric  Without Jeff Hsu the Observer  
ILOST & FOUND I  www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411  HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HISTORIC INN,FULL ELEGANT BREAK­ FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412  STANFORD 2GA"S 4 sale 243-1626 leave offer  would be lost. Last night Mark Deboy was  
NANNY FOR WEEKDAY AFTER­ FASTS.4 GUEST  attacked while walking home from  
Gitana antique gold & brown glass­ NOONS NEEDED TO WATCH  ROOMS,AIC,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS  WANTED  SOH. Witnesses say the attack  
es found in grass outside of  BOY & INFANT GIRL IN  REOUIRED.$99.00 Call 616-695­ NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  I NEED STANFORD TIX!!!!!  began after the assailant remarked  
O'Shag. Claim at Lost & Found in  GRANGER. 277-9969.  6321  271-1526  Friends coming tor the game.  about smoothie stains on his shirt.  
O'Shag.  Looking tor 2 tickets.  
SPRINGBREAK  NO Ftbl. tix  Call Brian at X 3546  Deboy has nice guns, squirt guns  
LOST-BEAR-SHAPED SILVER  Cancun,Fiorida,Etc.Best  Lg 2BR apt, 4 blks from NO. $475/  BUY-SELL  that is.  
PIN wfTURQUOISE. PLEASE  Hotels,Parties,Prices.Book Early  mo. 234-8017.  674-7645  Pretty Pretty Please-Need  
CALL 273-9695.  and Save!!Earn Money+ Free  2 GA's for Stanford  NO.  
Trips!Campus Reps/Organizations  Bed and breakfast Football  NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  Call Anne or Michelle  
Lost on 8/28.  Wanted.  weekends two miles from stadium  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  243-9371  SBL: You should have me over!  
Inter-Campus Programs  219-277=6832  674-7645  
1 -800-327-6013  Need Army G.A.s  


.. 
Tuesday, September 29, 1998 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL page 13 

Keough escapes with close win ­
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Writer 
It was far from a normal 
South Bnnd autumn aflprnoon 
last Sunday at Stepan Field. 
Football was tho oxcitPnumt of 
tlw aftemoon as tho Kangaroos 
of Knough ddnatnd tlw .Juggs of 
Knott, 7-0. 
Tlw tt~ams displayml imprns­
sivn skill on dt~li~nsn throughout 
tlw ganw. Punts canw down like 
bombs on a battlnlidd. 
l~arly in tlw lirst quarlt~r Knott 
thrnatnnnd to st·.orn as it exhibit­
ml an imprPssiw option oll'ense. 
Knough thwartnd tho attack 
with an early quartPrback sack 
that sPt tlw torw for tlw game. 
"Thl' dtd't'llsl' shut thnm dow11 
tlw whoiP ganw and that was 
lhP kPy to thn win." Knough 
dPI'PnsiVI' Pnd Chris <:raytor 
said. "If thny don't s1·or1', wn 
I'an 't losP." 
Tlw dl'fPnsP madP its biggPst 
play of tlw day laLP in IIH• third 
quart1~r as tlw KPough goal-lirw 
dPfPIISI' hlockPd a Knott field 
goal attPmpt. This play shiftnd 
t.iw momPnl.tlln of flw g-anw to 
tim Kangaroos. 
<)uartPrh;u·k Travis Alt~xandm· 
and rncoivPr Matt Canna had 
hi'PII connPding all day, hut so 
far had faiiPd to gt•l into tlw Pnd stnppnd it up on llw last drive." charge. On fourth and sixth, 

1.0111'. Alumni quarterback Alex Gese 
As thP fourth-quartnr dock Alumni 10 hit roceiver Mike Defonso, who 
ran down. Alnxandnr and Canna 

Stanford II ran the ball in from the !'ive­marrhnd Llw Knough ol'fnnse yard lin<' for the game's !'irst down tlw liPid. AIPxandnr lirst 
On tlw north side of the field a score. Moore put up tho extra hit Canna for a lirst down with a batt.ln betwenn tlw Dawgs and point kick and Alun1ni took a 7­
minulP n•maining. Studs took place. The canines 0 lead. ThPn, with 20 snconds 
won out in the end as Alumni's In tho fourth quarter, Gese rPmaining, thP two ronntH~tnd 
ddtmsivt~ ~~xeellencn proved too completed a long pass to receiv­again as Carum !'aught a fade on 
llltH'.h !'or the Stanford oll'tmse to er Cas Schneller, who caught tlrt• Knott l'ivn-yard lirw and hamlin. thn ball on the five-yard line. 
draggPd a dnl't~ndPr into tlw Both teams playnd inspired Al'ttH' two pass attempts came PltdzonP. KPtHtgh kil'kPd thn 
dnf'nnsn in tlw lirst half of' the up unsuecessful, Moore kicked a Pxtra poi11t and tlw rlol'k ran ganw. Tlw only time that either 20-yard field goal for the game's dow11 for tl11• victory. 
tnam was dosn to scoring was linal score. "Travis put it ,:ight on tlw 
in thr• sneond quartPr wlwn "Our defense played really monPy only whPI"I' I could catl'h Alumni kiekor Paul Moore's great," said Alumni coach Mike it." Canna said. "I just had to go 
linld goal attnmpt was blocked Aubry. "They caused a few up and gnt it a11d fall into tlw by a Stanford dnf'nndnr. turnovers in the second half' Pnd w11n. Tlw linP rnally gave 
In tl11• third quarter, the with a fumble recovery and him a fon of limP to do it, tlwy 
Alumni ol'l'ensn f'inally took interception that worn really 





MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER 
Cordially invites students of all majors to attend a presentation on the 
Investment Banking Financial Analyst Program 
Thursday, October 1st " 7:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education (lower level) 
Interviews: November 9th 
WWW.I11S. COn1 
Morg{ln St{/nley Dean Witter is {//1 Equal Opportunity Employer 
Notu 'Z)ame 'g-ilm, '7-elellislon, and '7-heatu pusents 

Wed., Oct. 7 7:30p.m. 
Thurs., Oct. 8 7:30p.m. 
Fri., Oct. 9 7:30p.m. 
Sat., Oct. 10 7:30p.m. 
Sun., Oct. 1 1 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington 
Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 
Seniors $8 

All Students $6 
Tickets are available allafortune Studenl Cenler Ticket Office. MasterCard and VIsa orders caii631·B12B 

-
-
Morgan Slanley Dean Willer is a service mark of Morgan Sianlcy Dean Wnter & Co. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 29, 1998 
Late in the third quarter, fol­back Zak Allen dislocated a fin­Dailey, Mike Haarlander and lowing a blocked Fisher field ger on his throwing hand dur­Robert Miyakawa stopped the · goal attempt, Smith carried the ing the Green Wave's first later Fisher rally, preserving ball on every down as Siegfried offensive series. the 6-0 victory moved the ball slowly down the It was not until late in the "We are a young team and I field against the stubborn fourth quarter that replacement think we played very competi­Fisher defense. Smith capped quarterback Mike Schultz and tive," Fisher captain Chris off the drive with a four-yard senior tailback Greg Regan Backus said after the game. "I plunge to give Siegfried a 6-0 moved the ball consistently am looking forward to next 
lead. down the field. week. With a little more 
Fisher's offense had trouble However, the stingy Siegfried improvement, we should givegetting on track after quarter-defense led by linebackers Ryan Zahm a tough game." 





treet Forum 
Your opportunity to learn more about: 
•Investment Banking •Asset Management 
•Commercial Banking •Insurance 
•Careers for Business and Non-Business Majors 
Wednesday, October 7th, 1998 College of Business Administration 3:00-10:00 pm 
Open to all Students 
Dinner Tickets $5 On Sale: September 28th­October 2nd COBA 102 and O'Shaughnessy 
Advance Purchase Necessary 
For n1ore information call: Professor John Affleck-Graves at 631-63 70 
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 


blah, FREE Checking, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah . 
. 0 




NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAl CREDIT UNION For People. Not For Profit. www.ndfcu. org 
(219) 239-66 I I or (800) 522-6611 
Independent of the University 

Football 
continued from page 20 
led an offense that featured the triple option and a quick pass­ing game. 
However, the Dillon defense grew stronger in the shadow of their own goal posts. Morrissey, never able to punch the ball into the end zone, was forced to settle for three long field goal attempts. Jon Sandowski missed a 56 yarder wide left, hit the upright on a 45 yarder and made a 36-yard attempt late in the third quarter to give the Manor a 3-0 lead. 
Special teams play and an 

excellent defensive stand late in the fourth quarter put Dillon in a position to win. Following a 65-yard punt that pinned Morrissey at its own five yard line, Dillon's defense stuffed the Morrissey offense on three straight plays. Morrissey's punt on fourth down traveled only 15 yards, giving Dillon excellent location for Crane's party. 
Siegfried 6 Fisher 0 
Following a half described by Siegfried coach Jamie Bordus as "a little flat," freshman tail­back Travis Smith carried the Siegfried offense past the inex­perienced Fisher Green Wave. 



Kent medals at 
' ~;. 


Iowa Intercollegiate 
Special to The Observer 

IOWA CITY, Iowa Notre Dame senior Willie Kent squandered his two-shot lead but still finished in a three-way tie for medalist honors. 
Meanwhile, the Irish men's golf team slipped to third place out of 12 teams, in final-round action Sunday at the Iowa Hawkeye Intercollegiate. 
Kent, who has led the Irish with an impressive 73.7 stroke aver­age over the last 20 rounds since transferring from Saint Louis University, fired rounds of 69 and 71 on Saturday before slipping to a 76 on Sunday at the par-71, 6,724-yard Finkbine Golf Course. 
Iowa's Chris Englund and Kentucky's Jeremy Langley finished in a three-way tie with Kent atop the leaderboard, with Englund awarded first place due to the better scores in reverse order -he and Langley shot matching 73s in the third round but Englund had the better second round. 
Kent's first-place finish is the ninth by an Irish golfer during the 1990s but only the fourth in an event that was not a conference championship. Other such recent winners include Bryan Weeks, who captured the 1997-98 Butler Invitational, Chris Dayton took the 1991-92 Indiana Intercollegiate and Brennan Murphy who won the 1990-91 Valparaiso Invitational. 
Notre Dame entered the day in second place, just three shots behind Wisconsin. But the Irish slipped behind Kentucky after shooting a final round 300, for an 886 total. Wisconsin edged Kentucky for the team title, with the Badgers' Todd Anderson fin­ishing fourth among the 66-player field. 
Kent's three-over 216 total equals the second-lowest 54-hole score by an Irish golfer since 1963, trailing Connell's four-under 209 at last spring's Marshall Invitational and tied with Brian Donohoe's even-par 216 at the 1996-97 Legends oflndiana. Notre Dame's 886 total ranks as the program's fifth-best 54-hole team score since 1966. 
Irish senior captain Brad Hardin continued his rejuvenated play by firing a 76 on Sunday to finish tied for 18th with a 224 total. Freshman Kyle Monfort also maintained his impressive rookie season by improving in each round to finish tied for 20th at 225. 
Junior co-captain Todd Vernon bounced back from uncharac­teristic opening rounds of 80 and 76 by posting a 74 on Sunday to finish at 230. His classmate Jeff Connell suffered his worst round of the fall. plummeting from 12th to 48th place after a final round 85 for a 232 total. 
..... 
-

The price of the #1 LSAT course is going up October 1st. 
Enroll now and save. 
Competition for law school is tougher than ever, and your LSAT score 
can make all the difference. Kaplan will help you get the high score you 
need. Enroll by October 1st and beat the price increase. Call today! 


CALL 1·800 t:f:iQUit 
www.kaplan.com
KAP·TEST 

*LSAT ls a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. 
WORLD LEADER IN TEST PREP 

Tuesday, September 29, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
our dnfense," with that unit claims in tact, rolling to an 18-able with what we't>C doing." and passes. The entire team on having allowed zero points in 0 victory and improving to 3-0. Hopefully for them, this com­both sides of the ball never
Game 
two games. This team has a lot Senior Lisa Hodriguez got PW fort level will continue to trans­looked back from this solid 
-
Admissions Office now open 8:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. on Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. 

e new world opened up one Saturday morning." 

"That's when we visited the campus of Holy Cross College -and my daughter decided she had to go there." 
Good decision! No doubt it was aided by the fact that they could talk with someone from our Admissions Office. It's now open on all Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. ~ OLY 
/

So college-bound students and their families who are in town for a game can get the 
CROSS
*H

full scoop on what our college has to offer. Of course, you can talk with someone in 
COLLEGE

the Admissions Office any weekday. And, if you can't visit us when you're in town for 
continued from page 20 
thn little momentum we had," as Lewis then rnov1~d on to seorn after the turnovnr. 
Fn~s h man Kn lly Kongan scored the lone Lewis touch­down in thn losing niTort on a 40-yard intnn:nption return. Coaeh Bouton said his team has till' "general idna of thn plays" hut lllll~d to f'XPcutn rnueh "crisper." 
As for Lewis, senior eaptain Hosnmary Sag" hnlit~vns hnr tnam's "strnrrgl.h is dnl'irritoly 
Take the less-traveled 



road 

Fr. Jim King, c.s.c 

Fr. Bill Wa~k. cs.c 

Give us one year. Give yourself the chance. 
For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Candidate Program contact 
Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 

http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 

of talent both from upper and lower dassmen and should fare well if it puts it all together as in its effort against Welsh. 
Pasquerilla West 18, Farley 0 
In the second contest, l'asquerilla West came into the action against Farley Hall sporting a defense which had given up no points and boasting an undefnated r·ecord thus far into the season. The team left the contest with these two going early on with an inter­ception that she returned for a touchdown. Junior captain Kathleen Warin said this was the boost her team's previously sluggish defense needed to get going and record its third shutout of the young season. 
PW went on to score twice more through the air, but these times the ball took flight from the arm of its own quarterback. First senior Mary Laflin and then freshman Amanda Gallen hauled in touchdown tosses as the lead dim bed to 18-0. This wound up being the final score. 
"The score does not reflect how wnll we played," said Farley's captain, junior Elizabeth Brown. 
Brown felt her team's atti­tude change after the first interception, one that ate at the team's confidence and seem­ingly set tho tone for the r·est of the game. With the loss, her team fell to 0-2. 
PW feels confident about its prospects for the remainder of the season. In the words of Warin, "We're pretty comfort-

Here is your chance to have your voice heard. 
The Observer Sports Department is seeking another sports columnist. If interested please call 1-4543. 
late into wins. 
Pasquerilla East 28, Off-Campus 0 
The third game pitted Pasquerilla East against the team from off campus. 
Not wanting to be outdone by the hall that shares its first name, PE also held the opposi­tion scoreless en route to a 28­0 rout that moved the team's record to 2-0. 
The center of attention for both teams was PE senior quarterback Elizabeth Plummer. While she keyed the PE passing and ground games, the off campus team was focused on trying to stop her. They met with minimal suc­cess, as the score suggests. 
Plummer did an excellent job distributing the ball to her ehtire receiving corps, high­lighted by touchdown passes to junior Melissa Gorman and junior Kerri llanley. This potent offensive attack struck on it first possession with a healthy combination of runs start. 
Leading the defense was the pass rushing attack of juniors Stephanie Foster and Stephanie Trautman. Forget the shoes. It must be the name. Or maybe the class. 
One bright spot for the off campus team was the play of senior fullback Christina Hascall who, among her other receptions, had a thirty yard catch. 
Off campus coach Chris Mignanelli said his team is "learning as we go along," the group only having had six or seven practices before this game. lie said he ean already see the growth in his 0-2 team as "the passing game is getting a lot better". 
Off' to a strong start, junior captain Alison Healy stated that her team is "gearing up for the second half of the season," one in which the sch1~dule promises to deliver some tough games. With Plummer at the helm. PE definitely looks to be a force to be reckoned with in the coming weeks. 
P.O. Box 308

a game, you can learn more about us at the Holy Cross Hospitality Table in Joyce 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 Center. We're a two-year, transfer-intent liberal arts college with a knack for nurturing 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
young minds and giving wings to young dreams. Stop by. And let us open up a whole 
Website: http:/ /www.hcc-nd.edu new world for your son or daughter. E-Mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
Right for you, right from the start . 
... .._.,.__ ... -_.,._ ..... ........~ .... .,."'­
~ 

. .. .. . .... 
~-._-~--~------~----------------~~-------~--·--~­
page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 29, 1998 
-

+Campus Ministry This Week+ 







._,.. 

OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-8242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-min­istry 

Tuesday, September 29, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, September 30, 7:00pm, Log Chapel 
-



Part 2 of a Seven-Part Series ~ on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: CQunsel by Holy Cross Seminarians 
Wednesday, September 30, 9:00pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Acolyte Workshop 

Mandatory if you plan on serving in the Basilica 
Thursday, October 1, 7:00-9:00 pm, Center for Social Concerns 

Career Planning and Preparation Seminar 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
Sunday, October 4, 10:00am-8:00 pm, St. .Joe Hall 

NDE #52 Team Retreat 
Sunday, October 4, 4:00 pm, Sorin Hall Chapel 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass Celebrant: Rev. Richard V. Warner, CSC 

Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Notre Dame Celebration Choir Rehearsals 
Wednesdays, 8:00-9:30 pm, Earth/Science, Rm. 102 
The newest choir on campus, offers a spiritual, diverse musical alternative to those who would like to participate in the music ministry at Notre Dame, drawing from a rich variety of contemporary, folk, gospel, Taize prayer and traditional sacred music. For details, contact Karen Schneider-Kirner, 631-9326 


Student Volunteers needed at University Villa~e Married Student Housin~: 
The Parents' Time-Out Cooperative is looking for a few students to assist with child care (ages 1-4) on Mondays between 9:00-11:30 a.m. In the Village Community Center. Duties will include organizing games, assisting with arts and crafts activities, and helping out during snack time. Please contact Alice at 273-1417 or Hae-Jeon at 634-4632. 
Tuesday, September 29, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 

-

Heft and Grubb earn Big East players of the week 


Special to The Observer 
PROVIDENCE, R1 
Notre Dame junior forward Jenny Ileft and junior defender Jen Grubb were named Big East players of the week on Monday. 
Heft was named offensive play­er for the second time this sea­son, while Grubb was named defensive player of the week for the third time in four weeks. 
Heft scored four of Notre Dame's six goals this weekend, ineluding a hat trick in the 3-0 win over 25th ranked Wake Forest on Sunday, the third hat trick of her career. Heft also scored the second goal of the game against Indiana on Friday. 
For the season, Heft has scored 12 goals in nine games in the 1998 season. Heft was named to the all-tournament team of the KeyBank Soccer Classic. 
Grubb upped her team-leading assist total to nine with three more assists this weekend to bring her average to one assist per game. She assisted on Notre Dame's game-winning goal against Indiana on Friday night and added another assist on the final goal of the game. 
Grubb added another assist against 25th ranked Wake Forest. Grubb also helped the Irish record their fourth straight shutout and seventh of the sea­son. For her performances this weekend, she was named defen­sive MVP of the KeyBank Soccer Classic. 



When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Breok new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 
-
.. . 
-

-
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 29, 1998 
w 
son, Walton is also credited
-Soccer with two game-winning goals. 
His goal against St. John's this 
weekend earned him his third
continued from page 20 

rookie of the week honor this season.
Shane Walton. Having scored Tallying seven of the team'sin all but one game this sea­

15 goals this season has led 
-

Out of the past four weeks, freshman Shane Walton has earned the title of Big East rookie of the week three times. 

Walton earns rookie honors 
Special to The Observer 

For the third time in four weeks, Notre Dame freshman for­ward Shane Walton has been honored as the Big East Rookie of the Week. 
Walton, the leading scorer for the Irish this season with seven goals and three assists, tallied the game-tying goal in Notre Dame's 1-1 deadlock with seventh-ranked St. John's on Saturday night. He has scored in all but one game for the 4-1-2 Irish this season with two game-winning scores. Walton tied the score against St. John's at the 17:43 mark off an assist from junior Ryan Cox. 
His game-winning goals have come in a 1-0 victory over Northwestern and in a 2-1 overtime decision at Villanova. Walton is the first Irish rookie to score six points in a colle­giate debut when he score six goals and dished off two assists in a 6-1 victory against Valparaiso. 
opposing defenses to keep on eye on No. 11. 
"Everyone knows who he is. He's a marked man and has to earn everything he gets," said Berticelli. 
The attention hasn't stopped Walton so far, especially with the strong play of fellow for­ward Ryan Cox, who assisted the freshman on the St. John's goal. As defenses try to keep Walton in check, it is Cox who has become more heroic in getting him the ball. 

"One player that deserves a lot of credit is Ryan Cox. He's the creative guy, the one that's making a lot of things hap­pen," said Berticelli. "The com­bination of Cox and Walton has amazed me in how well they've learned to play together so quickly." 
Associated Press 
DENVER 

The first casualty of the Rockies' losing season was Don Baylor -the only manager the team has had in its six seasons. 
"After a long, thorough and 
very difficult evaluation, we 
fe-el a change in chemistry is 
necessary on the field and in 
the clubhouse," Colorado 
owner Jerry McMorris said 
Monday after firing his manag­
er. 

Despite the high-priced addi­
tions of pitcher Darryl Kile and 
second baseman Mike Lansing, 
the Rockies finished 77-85 ­
their first losing season in four 
years. 

"Major league baseball has 
enjoyed a remarkable 1998 
season, but all of us at the 
Rockies have been very disap­
pointed in our own season," 
McMorris said. "We didn't play 
like we expected to play." 
Baylor, 49, led the Rockies to 
a 440-469 record. He was 
offered a position as vice presi­
dent, reporting directly to 
McMorris, but he did not imme­
diately accept it. 

McMorris said during spring 
training that the Rockies had 
assembled their best team. But 
the team's performance didn't 
measure up. 

Both Baylor and Bob 
Gebhard, the general manager 
since the Rockies inception in 
1993, were criticized all year 
following an eight-game losing streak in early April that dropped the team out of con­tention. 
While Baylor will not return to the dugout, Gebhard will be back in the front office. McMorris said the team also will create a vice president's position with broad player per­sonnel responsibilities. 
Keli McGregor, senior vice president of business opera­tions, has been promoted to executive vice president. His responsibilities will remain with the club's business opera­tions, but he also will have expanded duties within the baseball department. Assistant general manager Tony Siegle was made director of baseball administration. 
"We realized that we had lost some experienced baseball people from our front office over the past few years," McMorris said. "We need more baseball people upstairs." 
To that end, McMorris said he hoped Baylor would accept the new job offer. 
"We do not want to lose Don or his many talents in this organization," McMorris said. "I strongly encouraged Don to accept this role, and I made it very clear to him that it was not a short-term deal." 
Many of Baylor's new duties would involve shoring up the Rockies' minor-league system. 
"We have not asked any team for permission yet to talk to a manager," McMorris said, "but 

The recent string of four overtime matches leaves the Irish looking to jump out with a quick lead that it can hold on to. With a game away from the Big East and Aris, Wells and Bocklage on the rebound, the Irish hope to return to South Bend with a big win. 
"We can't be satisfied with a tie," said Walton. "For me, a tie is a loss." 

Rockies fire first manager 
GW STUDY ABROAD PROGRAM 
EXPERIENCE 





SPAIN 

Be a global citizen at GW's Madrid Study Center located at Spain's prestigious Universidad Aut6noma. Complement your classroom learning with field trips, excursions and other rich cultural experiences in one of Spain's most exciting cities-Madrid. 
FALL AND SPRING SEMESTERS. 1999 
COURSEWORK IN SPANISH: Language, Culture and Literature 
INTERNSHIPS 
COURSEWORK TAUGHT IN ENGLISH: 
• 
Europe in the 20th Century • Contemporary Sp~ 

• 
International Marketing • International Economics 


• European-Atlantic Relations 

I expect that process will begin this afternoon. We're looking for a person who has won and who has experience." 
Among those reportedly being considered to replace Baylor are Florida's Jim Leyland, Montreal's Felipe Alou and Milwaukee's Phil Garner. 
After the Rockies came from behind to defeat San Francisco 9-8 on Sunday, Baylor sounded as if he expected to be fired. "I think it's probably 50-50," he said. ''I've been around a long time, and I understand the indi­cators. I can live with what I've done here in six years." 
With Baylor as the manager, the Rockies won 67 games in 1993, the most ever for a first­year NL team. They earned the NL wild-card playoff berth in 1995, the quickest any expan­sion team has made it to the postseason. 
The Rockies went 83-79 in both 1996 and 1997 but slipped back this season. 
"Don Baylor is a great indi­vidual. He's made some mis­takes, but everybody sees how managers make mistakes," NL batting champion Larry Walker said. "I enjoy playing for him. I'd play for him any day." 
Shortstop Neifi Perez added, "I love Don Baylor. I don't know how it's all his fault." 
Looking to the future, McMorris said the Rockies "intend to bring in at least one impact free agent, and hopeful­ly two." 


-
THE 

OBSERVER 

Its a daily newspaper with a Daily photographer. Go figure. 

Monday, September 29, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

EUGENIA LAST 
Do '/OtJ EVER FEEL f"Hf{T 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS

~l!o~cHs-:V~~ :_Es:s_
\,../tTH ALL '1"H£ FtJoTBALf­H'Ifl A/'ID NA7ioNAL EXPoStJ!f.E, 

FOXTROT 
APPARENTL.'1' "DILSERT•s'' BIG LEAP FRoM o8SCURIT'Y To PRoMINENCE BEGAN SooN AfTER ScoTT ADAMS STARTED INCLUDJNC, HIS INTERNET ADDRESS 8ElWEEN THE PANELS oF HIS STRIP, 
DILBERT 

._ ......
___.....___ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Five-time Wimbledon

1 Second-string champplayer 
25 Expensive coat 6 Sharp breath 
26 Fountain treat 10 Baby skin 
29 Orderly lion's 

problem 
lair? 14 Billy Joel's 33---gardeinstrument 
35 Functions 15 Simba's cry 36 4:00 function 16 Light beige 37 Actor Chaney 11 Teacher's duty 38 Placate 
[the basis for five 41 Blow it anagrams in this 
42 So, in Latin 

puzzle] 
43 Sharp19 Gorge 
44 Kind of boom 20 "The Catcher in 
46 Beachgoer'sthe-" 
goal? 

21 Appearance 50 Western Indians determinant 
51 Macaulay 22 Parts of Culkin's home ecosystems status 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1-=-j..:::..l-!,-~fllll ~!j!j!j~ITj~··· 
~~-~~ 0:::.1-!-+-.:-~~ ~~~I!,Jj~fj~[j~-~~~ 
L!:....L::...L.:....L:~ 

~ut-1\\ r rnterlict Campus In-line Hockey 
~cu ff ctn(l, 
NoW ll-IAT E\IER'roNE IS Do1NG IT, I WONDER WllAT A CARTooNIST COULD Do To DISTINGUISH HIMSELF FRoM THE PACI<. 
\ 
52 Electrical unit 54 Verdigris 56 Scintilla 57 16th-century 
date 60 Ceremony 61 Actor Beatty 
fasts? 64 First garden 65 Arboretum item 
66 Fad 
67Wired 68 Bus rider's prize 69 Where to get 
down from? 
DOWN 
1 Practice boxing 2 Metro 3 Fare 4 Article in Le 
Figaro 5 Beatnik's drum 6 Football great 

Red 2460's slogan 40Tennis's 7 Top-flight 
"--the bomb" Sampras 25 Greek meeting 45 Not safe 

8 Pouch place 47 Grisham nail­
9 Introduces 28 Hot sauce biter, with "The" 

58 Almost knock 10 Denouement 27 Egg-shaped 48 Cousin of the out 11 Tepee with 28 Sock hop snipe 59 Roman road 
poles? 

notice? 49--chance 62 Byron's before 

]oin The Observer 

30007, e.g. 53 Kind of corporal 63 Chemistry prefix 12 Madrid miss: 
Abbr. 

31 Weird 13 Shades 
32 Undercover 

Get answers to any three clues 

staff.

18 "The 'Burbs" police 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
co-star 34 Hire 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

23 Humiliates 39 Some titles 
£~\_t.J o]{ec \¥:

~\~U aterP. 
1~\-\-a (( o10 
WE'LL GIVE. YOU THREE g 
DOLLARS APIECE TO 
FORG£.T TI-\E. WHOLE 
"THING. 
-
DAY: Wilt Chamberlain, Kenny 


www. !foxtrot com 


Rogers, Princess Margaret, Count Basic 
Happy Birthday: Minor setbacks should be expected. Nothing will go according to plan, so be prepared to think standing up. You'll have to watch out for indiJ!iduals who may want to hold you back. It's not be the year to cut corners. Your colorful nature may fool some of the people you meet, but it won't fool those who are perceptive and watching you from afar. Be honest and true to your­self if you warrt to prosper. Your num­bers: 8, 12, 17, 26, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21·April19): Don't rush. It's important to complete unfinished business. Take part in

BILL AMEND 
social activities and you'll meet intriguing mates. Travel opportunities will be present through work-related

I'M SuRE 

matters. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your household may be up in arms if you plan on making changes that others just can't relate to. Be careful not to offend individuals who are estab­hshed in your field. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have to speak your piece. Prob­lems with your partner will be due to untruthfulness. Travel will allow you to meet new lovers. Love triangles must be avoided. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your lover will upset the apple cart today. Be prepared to step back and watch for the time being. Things may not be a,. they appear. Get all the facts. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love con­

SCOTT ADAMS 
nections can be made. Your colorful way of entertaining everyone will attract all sorts of different mates. Use

1RONICALLY1 
MATH I~ M'( 
Birthday Baby: You'll be eager to entertain right from day one. Your family and friends will welcome your company and believe in all that you profess to

ONL'( TALENT. 
be able to do. You are a born actor and a colorful little character. You will always follow the most exciting pathway throughout your life. . . (Need advice? Call Eugenia at 900-484-7827. Your phone company Will bill you $1.99 per minute.) 
your discrimination, or you may pick the wrong person. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Decep­tion involving co-workers or employ­ers may put a dent in your plans. You should work on your own and avoid getting dragged into idle chatter that could be incriminating. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may want to consider making changes regarding your residence. You need to get involved in some form of physical activity. You will be in a key position to present creative projects. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make major advancements if you are willing to speak your mind. Career opportunities will unfold just by utilizing your widespread knnwl­edge.OO 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do some research regarding your future intentions. You may want to look into working in foreign COWl· tries or picking up additional knowl­edge about different governments. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will want to spend too much on frivolous items. This will be • good day to work at home. Look into ways of. improving your personal situation. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Passionale encounters can be yours if you are willing to make the firsl move. You will find a need to lravel and should be looking into different destinations. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will make headway at work if you are creative in your approach to business. Don't let others dramatize situations that may bring accusations. Look out forNo.I.OOO 

-
•.. 
.... 
.... 



Wanted: Reporters, photographers and
54 D.C. V.I.P. 55 Adjutant 56 Brainchild 

57 Fermented drink 

editors. 
For More Info. Contact:

\1 rctdlcfctcfSteJ CAMPUS ULTIMATE FRISBEE 
RecSports -1-61 00 





-
PORTS 
0 THE page 20 BSERVER 

Irish prepare to face Broncos 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Assisr.uu Sports Editor 

It's been quite a stretch for the Irish the past two weeks as they faced four straight foes from the Big East. 
Despite a loss to the Scarlet Knights at Hutgers, the Irish came away from the confer­ence games with four points to hold on to a top spot in the standings. 
But head coach Mike Berticelli's squad will take a breather this afternoon from Big East competition as the Irish trek over to Western Michigan for their third non-conference game of the season. Notre Dame, riding a seven-game win streak against the Broncos, hopes to improve on its unbeaten non-conference record of 2-0-0. 
The primary concern for Notre Dame lies not with the Broncos, but with getting key players healthy for the rest of the season. Forward Scott Wells and midfielders Andrew Aris and Ben Bocklage have all been out of lineups the past few weeks nursing injuries. Though all three 
• Notre Dame golfer Willie Kent places first at the Iowa Hawkeye Intercollegiate. 
p.14 

started in Saturday's contest against St. John's, they each saw limited playing time in the 1-1 tie. 
"Being able to put Andrew Aris, who's at about 60 percent of his usual sell', Scott W~lls, who's at about 70 percent, and Ben Bocklage, who's at about 80 percent on the field even for periods of time has been a plus for our team," said Berticelli. "It give us some confidence and allows us to get back to playing the way we were before those injuries." 
The injuries have given the Irish the chance to test out some of the newer talent on the roster, even in Saturday's all-important standoff with St. John's. Matt Russo, Dustin Pridmore, Antonio Bernal and Patrick Williams all entered the game for the Irish attack in the crucial over­time periods. 
"I like to put in younger players for short peri­ods of time to give them a little bit of experi­ence, and yet at the same time, they're capable of making a difference," commented Berticelli. 
The freshman who has made the biggest dif­ference on the Irish squad this year is forward see SOCCER I page 18 
• Zahm and Keenan easily advance over Carroll/St. Ed's and O'Neill. 
p.l3 

• Gaetti and Sosa secure Cubs' first spot in playoffs since 1989. 
p.l2 
.... 

Games intesify as squads hit their stride 
Dillon's offense too much for Morrissey 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Spores Writer 
In a game that was sup­posed to b1~. according to Dillon coach Omar Munoz a "coming out party for Chris Crane," the guest of honor arrived a little late. 
Facing double and triple coverage from the Morrissey defense all game, Crane was held to 1 7 yards on 1 catch. But that one catch could not have come at a more oppor­tune moment for the Dillon offense. 
Trailing 3-0 with 53 sec­onds remaining and facing a 4th and 11 from the Manor 17 yard line, freshman quarter­back Colin Conway, who com­pleted five of his 12 passes for 41 yards, hit Crane at the two yard line. Crane bounced off a would-be-tackler and lunged into the end zone giving Dillon its first lead of the game, 7-3. 
Dillon's offense struggled for most of the game. Joe Larson and the Morrissey defense registered five sacks and held Dillon tailback Durran Alexander to 18 yards on 7 carries. Conway rarely had enough time to throw as he was constantly harassed by the Manor pass-rush. 
The Morrissey offense moved the ball effectively against the Dillon defense most of the game. Quarterback Dan Sullivan, who chalked up 65 yards passing and 39 yards rushing, 


Lewis captures first win over 

Welsh, 19-6 
By TED FOX Spans Writer 

With the interhall football season now in full swing, each fall Sunday is filled with gridiron action. 
This Sunday was no differ­ent, as the warm weather and sunny skies set the stage for some intense action on West Quad in three women's inter­hall games in three hours. 
Game one saw Lewis Hall square off against Welsh Family Hall, a contest in which both teams were look­ing for their first wins. Unfortunately for Welsh, Lewis reached this goal first, winning the game 19-6, by bringing an attack that fea­tured veteran seniors and not-so-veteran freshmen. 
Leading the Lewis offensive onslaught was freshman run­ning back Virginia Brisley who rushed twice for touch­downs. 
Senior Leigh Ann West added the other touchdown in Jerry Rice-like fashion, catch­ing a pass and then sprinting the thirty-plus yards to the endzone. 
On the other side of the ball, freshman Alison Goodings picked up two key sacks while patroling the defensive line. Senior Maureen Neville intercepted two passes from her linebaek­ing position, one of which, in the words of Welsh coach Casey Bouton, "Kind of killed 
Halfback Tom Dietrich and the Alumni running game proved too much for the Stanford defense. The Dawgs see FOOTBALL/ page 14 handed the Studs a hard loss in Sunday's game, 10-0. see GAME I page 15 
vs Stanford Volleyball
vs. Seton Hall 

Saturday, I :30-p.m. @) October 2, 8 p.m. S~([ vs. Albion College 

SPORTS 

$'% Wednesday, 6 p.m. 
vs. Butler 

-Cross Country 
ATA 
%!1J October 2, 7:30 p.m . 
Notre Dame Invitational Soccer 
·:·:=:=·· .::::· 

at W. Michigan October 2, 3:30 p.m. vs. Manchester College 
S;:d; 

t; :·;)Vf Today, 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, 4 p.m. 

GLANCE 

• 







