A 
----~-----------~~ 

Monday, March 30, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No.) 15 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Semester in Washington, D.C. exceeds expectations 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Washington Correspondent 
Halfway through its inau­gural term, Notre Dame's new Sr,mester in Washington, D.C. program has successfully kept pace with its organizers' expectations, according to students, directors and semi­nar founder, professor of gov­ernment Peri Arnold. 
Last weekend, Arnold visit­ed Washington, D.C. to review students' sentiments about their housing, coursework and internships. He departed the nation's capital comfort­able with the fledgling pro­gram's direction. 
''I'm really satisfied with what I'm seeing," Arnold said. "The semester is matching our best hopes and plans." 
Those plans originally called for a one-semester academic program emphasizing experi­ential learning. Three-day­per-week internships have, in fact, proven to be the pro­gram's distinguishing charac­teristic. 
WHISTLE WHILE YOU WORK 

Prior to January, intern­
ships presented the most uncertainty to planners and enrolled students, most of whom independently located their employers late last fall. The Supreme Court, the Drug Enforcement Agency, Sierra Club and Gannett News line the spectrum of institutions hosting Notre Dame students for their commitments of 25 hours per week. 
With nearly 10 weeks of work gone by, many students have found themselves in unique pursuits, and many note that their work experi­ences could only be found in the nation's capital. 
''I'm interested in news and the news is happening here," said American studies major Devon Walsh. 
"Working at Nightline is the most exciting internship I've ever had. The interns get to see all of the decisions heing made. In any other part of the country you'd be removed," she said. 
Many internships have been especially helpful in allowing students to solidify their post­graduate plans. 
"It's great to talk to profes­sionals about their beliefs," said Erin Gallavan, an intern in the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering section of the U.S. Department of Justice. "This has helped me to know I don't want to be a bureaucrat. I know now I'll probably go into law." 

"This is excellent work experience," agreed Cynthia Caso, an accounting major interning at KPMG. "I could see myself here permanently. This job has helped me under­stand why some people rec­ommend public accounting out of college." 
While some plans are con­firmed, other internships reveal new paths. "It's helped me by challenging me to con­sider a number of issues," explained junior Tom Kilroy, an intern working for scholar Michael Novak at American Enterprise Institute. 
"I've seen that there are a lot of things worth spending a lifetime studying, a lot of fas­cinating topics," he said. 
The program's director was more than pleased with these evaluations. "I didn't expect to hear, unanimously, that the internships are the center­piece of this program. But that is, in effect, what I am hearing," Arnold said. 
'Always my mother, forever my friend' 
S
aint Mary's juniors and their 
mothers enjoyed Friday after­
noon's wine and cheese party as the kickoff event of the Junior Mom's Weekend. Campus band Hotel Prati provided background music for the gathering. Members of Saint Mary's faculty were also on hand to meet and greet stu­dents and their mothers. 
Other activities of the weekend included: a day of rejuvenation at Capello Hair Design, a shopping trip to Michigan City, a mass and a formal dinner on Saturday. The weekend was sponsored by the Junior Class Board. 
Photos lor The Observer by Kristy Sutorius 

dents doing important things with influential people, and doing well,"he added. 
Arnold returned to campus surprised with students' near­complete satisfaction with their internships. In addition, the core course, classes, pro­fessors and the host building were among other items· receiving expected praise from the students studying and working in Washington. 
BRING YOUR BOOKS 
The program's core seminar course in public policy can also be labeled a success, according to Arnold and semester executive director Tom Kellenberg, the class' instructor. Weekly field trips supplementing class discus­sions have taken students to 
see WASHINGTON/ page 4 


Mini-med class discusses genes and alcoholism 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writer 
Genes may influence alcoholism as much as environment, according to Dr. David Crabb, M.D., who addressed the possible connection during his lecture on the human liver and liver disease. 
His lecture last week, entitled 'The Uver Lets You Live," was the second in a six-ses­sion series of mini-medical school classes held at Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Indiana School of Medicine, Crabb opened his talk with an introduction on how to identify alcoholism, and then presented evidence of genetic connections to alco­holism. 
"There is a general misunderstanding about identifying alcoholism," Crabb said when referring to a list of alcohol-related symptoms. "A person has to have multiple features to have alcoholism." 
Crabb emphasized the use of a CAGE test to determine if someone may suffer from alcoholism. Among other questions, the test asks if an individual feels a need to cut down on drinking, feels annoyed by people asking questions about drinking and feels guilty when he or she drinks. 
The lecture, focusing in part on the genetic influences of alcoholism, drew from the results of a number of tests conducted in previous years. 
"The next step [to treating alcoholism] is to understand the genetic factors," Crabb said. 
Be also added that "gimes do not negate environmental effects," and cited several Islamic countries where cultural influences have kept alcohol consumption low. 
Using overhead projection graphs and slides, Crabb showed evidence that an indi­vidual's chance of developing alcoholism increases if they have relatives that were alcoholics. Citing studies where rats were selectively bred to prefer alcohol over water, Crabb said, "We're trying to figure 
see MEDICAL I page 4 


..r-w------------w·-----------~-~ __ ~-_ 
I 
I 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, March 30, 1998 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


Patty 0. 
Must Go 
Just trying to get you interested. Believe it or not, the administration actually does some 
things right. And for those of you abolitionists who don't agree, this is why the alcohol policy needs to stay as it is until something better eomes around. And why a dry campus is not the answer. 


From one standpoint Spencer Stefko 
we should all be thank-Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
ful. for rare is the stu­

dent who has not imbibed a bit before The 
Most Elusive Birthday. 

The alcohol rule is widely known on campus. 
It's kind of an unwritten rule, but everyone 
knows it. It used to be unwritten, before Bill 
Kirk put it in print a Scholastic article a few 
weeks baek. 

The ruin reads: we're not going to bust you 
in your room unless you're completely out of 
hand. 

You can put all the reasons you want behind 
this, but the rationale is obvious: try to keep 
the drinking on eampus, and try to keep drunk 
studenl'i from behind the wheeL 
But pkture this scenario. On my twentieth 
birthday, I have 20 shots, in my dorm room 
and I die. Sounds horrible, but it happens 
many times eaeh year in this country. 
The University will be held responsibln. 
Even though it was my personal choice, the 
person who bought the alcohol and, undoubt­
edly, The University, will be liable. But there's 
a rule in civil law: always sue someone with 
money. So my parents would surely go after 
the University. 

Don't you think that Bill Kirk article would 
be thrown at the jury numerous times during 
the trial'? Sure it would. The University will 
undoubtedly lose this case. 
(Don't think The University can lose a case 
in South Bend'? Maybe not. But a good prose­
cuting attorney would file for, and probably 
get-if not originally, on appeal -a change of 
venue. So throw that argument out.) 
The University would then need to pay my 
family for psychological duress, then reim­
burse them for funeral costs. They'd need to 
eome up with any and all future earnings I 
may have earned. Forget that I'm a 3.0 stu­
dent. A good attorney could have a jury believ­
ing I was a shoe-in to own the Pittsburgh 
Steclers, and Pirates, and Penguins. The 
University would pay, and pay, and pay. 
This is not even to mention the black eye the 
University would receive in the mndia. And we 
all know how image-eonsdous the administra­
tion is. 

But now picture a reversal of policy. A no­
tolerance. dry eampus policy. With this policy 
in plaen, I go ofT campus, use a fake I.D.. get 
sloshed and die. University escapes scott-free. 
They did what they could, and it was my fault. 
Morn people most definitely die from drink­
ing and driving than from simple overdrink­
ing. But what keeps the administration from 
watching their backs and changing the poli­
cy'? 

The desire to keep the number of dead as 
low as possible, no matter who is liable. 
This is not to suggest one needs to drink 
lwfore their twPnty-first birthday. But being 
pragmatists. as all legislators must, the 
administration realizes that students will. 
And they look out for us over the almighty 
dollar . 

.Just remember this next time you go to 
stick that pin in your Patty-0' Voodoo DolL 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Kristi Klitsch  Sarah Dylag  
Christopher Shipley  Mike Vanegas  
Finn Pressly  Graphics  
Sports  Tom Roland  
Bill Hart  Production  
Viewpoint  Laura Petelle  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
Joe Stark  

The Ob,ervcr (USI'S 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All r~producrion rights ar~ r~scrv~d. 
live by their rules." 
• SOUTH 8END WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

L 
Monday ~ 74 55 
i 


Tuesday ~' 62 40 Wednesday 8, 48 36 Thursday ~50 36 

·,.......,,~59 36 
q,~,~q~Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Associated Press Graph/CSNet 




~Outside the Dome 
~'"'\__ .,~..--'\\ . . 

\_(""" " Comptled from U-Wtre reports 
Microsoft strikes first collegiate deal with Indiana 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
spend during the next four years on 
In a ground-breaking deal with software. Little will change in the com­Microsoft, IU will pay $6 million to puting clusters because IU already obtain Microsoft software for students, owns most of the software. faculty and staff. IU announced the The agreement also allows IU users · agreement Thursday at Indiana to receive upgrades for Windows 95 University-Purdue at Indianapolis. and Windows NT and for the limited 
IU will distribute .the software free of distribution of NT/Server and SQL charge to the IU community. This is Server. After graduation, IU students the first time Microsoft has made a will be able to keep any of th{~ deal of this kind with a college or uni­Microsoft software they have acquired. versity. have to pay a $5 charge for the CD IU computers will still have other 
Beginning Tuesday, students will be itself. popular software packagns. 
able to get copies of Office for IU's vice president for information "We do not require people to use Windows (Word, Excel, PowerPoint technology Michael McHobbie said Microsoft. We will continue to support and Access), Office for Macintosh there will not be an increase in the IU other vendors," JU President Myles (Word, Excel and PowcrPoint), Internet student technology fee or other student · Brand said. 
Explorer, FrontPage and Visual Studio fees because of the Microsoft agree­The only major software change is at the Indiana Memorial Union's East ment. The money has already been fig­the university has not renewed its eon­Lobby. ured into the IU budget. Students now tract with Corel for its suite of products 
From 3 to 6 p.m., University pay a $100 technology fee per sem~s­ineluding WordPerfect. Information Technology Services will tcr. The copies of Corel products in the distribute CD-HOMs with the software Brian Voss, UITS director of teaching student technology centers will become on it. The CDs will be free Tuesday, and learning information said the $6 IU property and all other copies will but students picking them up later will million is about as much as IU would beeome illegal at the end of November. 
• NEW YORK UNIVERSITY  • TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY  
Students put university on mock trial  Grand jury indicts professor for theft  
NEW YORK  COLLEGE STATION, TX  
Approximately 150 students and pedestrians gathered  . A tenured Texas A&M University professor was indicted  
around a podium set up yesterday afternoon east of  Thursday by a grand jury for theft by a public servant of  
Washington Square Park in front of New York University's  property valued over $750 and under $20,000. Dhiraj  
Main Building to listen to a mock trial charging the NYU  Pradhan, formerly the highest-paid computer science pro­ 
administration of economic racism. The event was orga­ fessor at A&M, could face between two and 20 years in the  
nized by the Campaign for Economic Justice at NYU, which  state penitentiary, if convicted of the second-degree felony.  
advocates the employment of Chinese construction workers  Pradhan was indicted Feb. 26 on two felony eounts that  
without union membership at university-owned sites.  charge him with misappropriating state money for personal  
Recent refusals by NYU to hire non-union Chinese construc­ profit. Those counts could earn punishment of up to five  
tion workers for university projects sparked much of the  years probation. In a fax to the student newspaper at Texas  
current controversy several months ago. The speak-out was  A&M University, Pradhan said the law under which he has  
a part of the campaign group's ongoing efforts to increase  been indicted is continuously altered and could be chal­ 
public awareness of economic inequalities and racial dis­ lenged. "The law under which I have been indieted belies  
crimination resulting from hiring policies throughout the  an ever-changing dimate, born out in the DA's ofliec, one  
city. The campaign has extended its agenda to a citywide  which not only is very vague but is a convenient catch-all,"  
effort to end economic inequality and racial discrimination,  Pradhan said. "This very recent law obviously could bmwlit  
according to Steering Committee member David Eng.  from a court challenge to better define its parameters."  
• BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY  • UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS  
Basketball star faces drug charges  Hazing incident sparks investigation  
PROVO, Utah  AUSTIN, TX  
BYU basketball star Ron Selleazc was charged  UT oflicials arc investigating hazing allegations against  
Wednesday with possession of marijuana by the Provo City  the Kappa Alpha fraternity after a UT freshman alleged he  
Attorney's office. Provo Police cited Selleazc, future team­ was spat upon, urinated on and thrown against a wall by  
mate Michael Garrett and two others March 16 for marijua­ members of the group. Tim Hesselsweet said he suffered  
na possession. All but Garrett were charged Wednesday  bruises and a concussion after fraternity members grabbed  
with the class A misdemeanor. Basketball Coach Steve  him by the shoulders and threw him against a wall during a  
Cleveland indefinitely suspended Selleazc and Garrett from  pledge meeting Feb. 15. According to llcsselswnet and his  
the team. Both have been referred to the BYU Honor Code  attorney, Bill Whitehurst. llessclsweet was hospitalized for  
Office. Cleveland told KBYU reporters he was surprised and  at least three days in Brackenridge Hospital following the  
disappointed by the news. "It really surprises me, because  incident. Hesselsweet said the alleged hazing occurred at  
we've had a lot of talks about this and they know how I feel  the Kappa Alpha house at 2515 Leon St. and that about six  
personally," he said. Though in the midst of rebuilding the  students were present, most of them fellow pledge brothers.  
team, Cleveland said he's not willing to compromise the  "lie was taken into the basement of the fraternity house  
team by letting the incident slip by. In a Jan. 29 interview  and beat upon and spat on and urinated on and pushed up  
after the New Mexico game, Sclleazfl said the Honor Code  against a wall with sueh force that it cracked his skull."  
would not be an issue for him. "Rules is rules. They let me  Whitehurst said. "lie had intereranial hemorrhaging."  
come here to play ball and have an education. I'm going to  Whitehurst said no criminal charges will be filed against  

members of the group. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, March 30. 

50s
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1998 AccuWealher, Inc 
Pressure 

H L 8 &'SJ [Til 0 !3j 8-oe:J.u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Associated Pff!SS  
Atlanta  85  56  Dallas  75  64  Miami  84  74  
Baltimore  83  55  Denver  37  26  New York 76  54  
Boston  73  51  Honolulu  82  72  Phoenix  55  42  
Chicago  73  63  Houston  83  69  Scranton  82  51  
Columbus 83  56  Los Angeles 57  42  St. Louis  75  64  


--__...._.._........------~~----~-~--------~-------~---~----------... 
-.• r 
'' 

Monda;, March 30, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

ASA turns over series of African films 
271-1177 Notre Dame 

:un>pcan Specralrsts plan '"llf nc~t lnp lt>l.un•pt· ( ltn a~enn ollt:rs 


1827 South Bend Avenue 
271-PAPA Saint Mary's North Village Mall 52568 U.S. 31 North 



ByMATTHPWLOUGHRAN 
News Editor 
The African Students' Associa­tion turned over the 1998 African Film Series to the Office of Educational Media in a ceremony held in DeBartolo Hall on 

r-:-----:-1
Game .·· .. ·...
1 1 
· ·ng I 
I I 

__ .J 
Thursday. 

"Every year the African Students' Association gets money from departments that have an interest in the African Film Series," said Guillaume Zoun­lome, president of the ASA. "We use that money to buy 10 ftlms rei­
\tar\\ sludcnts and ranlll\ Ill Luropt• r ... "' n :!5 \t:ar' l.<:l<>llf n;p<:fll'llLL'I 
evant to situations in African poli­tics, economics, society and cul­ture." 
The films show both documen­tary and fictional approaches to the situations in Africa. The ASA shows the films every Wednesday in 141 DeBartolo at 7 p.m. 




Student Union Team holds retreat to discuss goals 
By KRISTI KUTSCH 
Assistant News Editor 
Over 55 members of the new Student Union Team met Saturday to develop mission statements and discuss student government goals. 
The retreat was held in the Walsh Hall basement and lasted three hours. 
Peter Cesaro, student body president elect, described the energy of the team. 
"Everyone had a student union strategy and had a passion for involvement and improving stu­dent life," he said. 


CarlsonWagonlit l~ 
\1 I ra1 clmort· ( ·arl~un \\·a~<lllill Tran:l lit· h;tlc htTll 'l'lldlll~ '-<>Ire I laure·and 

Fa\: ::lt,::7t-J.x7t, 
1723 South BcnJ A', 
(Nc\lt" :\<•Ire D;tnK· 
Ph ~ru:71.--ll-<Xt• 
"We have a mission state­ment," he continued, "but our goal was to bring everyone together to develop their own mission statements and direc­tion." 
The Student Union Team was chosen through an application and interview process a few weeks ago. The team was select­ed by Cesaro, student vice-presi­dent elect Andrea Selak and chief of staff Deanette Weiss. 
"The retreat was very produc­tive, and it flowed very well. Everyone participated and we really set a direction for next year," Cesaro said. 
Happy 22ndl 1BD9 
Jeni~ 
We Love You, 
Mom, Dad, 


and Blitzen 

[l(voted "Best Delivered Pizza" 
•·clrm>rt: u>lll kl'llft:!!f"lll' htm~."~'!b. IIi/~-~ .... ~~

The 1997, '96, '95, '94, & '93 Best of Michiana 
*Trarclmor(J doe,·, hur'.!c' ,, Sin \'t•rnr l' l<'<' /i1r .11rlu~t u.·h•r, undt•r S50n 

-------------~-------------------------------------------~~------~------------­
page 4  The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS  Monday, March 30, I998  
Washington  different backgrounds and roles," Arnold said. A professional lobbyist, a sociologist and a Brookings Institute  blocks from the area's public trans­portation system. A handful of suggested improve­ Twenty-five students have been selected to participate in next spring's program, but only 12 have enrolled for  
continued from page I  scholar combine to offer students a well-connected faculty of a different  ments for future semesters surfaced at last week's review. Currently students  the upcoming 1998 fall semester. The challenge of luring students away from  
the  noor of the House Chamber, the  composition than that traditionally  receive  a  $40 weekly remittance for  South Bend during the autumn football  
office of Senate majority leader Trent  found on Notre Dame's campus.  buying groceries, an  amount students  season  has proven  an early obstaele  
Lott and to other sites.  For  example,  professor  Rose  labeled inadequate.  for many of Notre Dame's off-campus 
Coincidentally. the group toured the  DiNapoli,  a  "Washing­ academic programs. 
White !louse only 12 hours after news  lobbyist  for  ton's  a  great  Arnold, for one, is not daunted, and  
of the Lewinsky scandal was first pub­ Sallie  Mae,  city, but you'd  sees similarities between the London  
licized. Exposure to top policy-making individuals and institutions has been one of the goals the core course seems  took a small group of her students to the  'WHAT WE HAVE ARE 19 STU- better bring your check­book," junior  Program and the Semester in Washington, D.C. Ile hopes his cre­ation can one day match the success of  
to be meeting.  $650-a-plate  DENTS DOING IMPOR- Tim  Barnes  the London offering that now  draws  
"Hight now we have good students, good planning and good luck. I think  A m e r i c a n Ireland Fund  TANT THINGS WTH  cautioned. "We'd like to  120 students a semester. In his five­year "ambitious outlook" for the  
this semester has exceeded our expec­ dinner  two  INFLUENTIAL PEOPLE,  add  more  Washington program, Arnold envisions  
tations." Kellenberg said. The program's elective elasses also  weeks ago. Senator  AND DOING WELL.'  money for f 0 0  our d  an offering with roughly 40 students and eight different course offerings. 
received commendations following last  Edward  PER! ARNOLD allowance. We  "It is one  of my very strong hopes 
weekend's informal review. The elass­ Kennedy. Sinn  FOUNDER OF THE SEMESTER IN  want to create  that this program will be as intensely  
es, taught by Notre Dame adjunct pro­fessors, range from a course in  Fein president Gerry Adams  WASHINGTON, D.C. PROGRAM  a schedule that gives  attractive as the London Program is to its students," Arnold said.  
Washington sociology  to  another  and  Notre  /'  maximum nex- The students inaugurating the pro­ 
examining the political party system in  Dame Award-winner John Hume were  ibility  for  the  student,"  Arnold  gram may play an  important role in  
the U.S.  among those in attendance.  responded.  bringing that success.  Kellenberg, for  
Classes for this semester and future  "We  were  introduced  to  Gerry  one, notes the likelihood of students  
semesters generally address policy  Adams," recalled junior Brendan  ATTRACTING PARTICIPATION  returning to live and work in the capi­ 
and government issues, but the pro­ Boyle. "I asked him when he  was  tal, a move that will eventually create  
gram is open to all majors. In fact, the  going to visit Notre Dame. He said  The new program's most immediate  a  strong supporting network of con­ 
College of Business Administration is  hopefully very soon, but he said it's  challenge  concerns attracting able  nected supporters. In such an eventu­ 
as well-represented in Washington  as  tough to make plans in the middle of  participants year-round, according to  ality, seminar sites and internship  
many of the individual majors in the  the ongoing peace process."  Arnold and Kellenberg. Students inter­ opportunities  can't  help  but  be  
College of Arts and Letters.  Although comparatively mundane,  ested in public affairs and internship  expanded. 
Students  are  not the only diverse  the Boston University-owned apart­ work experience are  the program's  "Serving the government in public  
group associated with the Semester in  ment building which houses the 19  most likely enrollees.  work is a good way of life. Current stu­ 
Washington,  D.C. program.  students, also received high marks.  "Our number one goal for next fall is  dents  may  well  make  it  back  to  
''I'm very pleased with the mix of  One asset is its location  on  the city's  attracting  quality  students,"  Washington," Kellenberg explained. 
faculty  we  have right now, with their  northwest side, conveniently two  Kellenberg stated.  
Medical  

continued from page I 
out the genes that cause this and then sec how this might apply to humans." 
According to Crabb, previous research has indicated that the drinking behavior of a same-sex parent most directly affects a d1ild's later drinking habits. ­
During his lecture, Crabb showed his audience liver biopsy needles used to extract liver tis­sue and explained the anatomy of a liver. lie also explained that viral hepatitis. as well as inherited diseases and alcoholism, can lead to liver disease. 
Crabb currently serves as a pro­fessor of medicine, biochemistry and molecular biology at Indiana University School of Medicine. A'i the vice-chair for research in the department of medicine, his dini­cal research has focused on acute and chronic liver disease. 
The mini-medieal school lecture series is open free to the public each Tuesday evening in DeBartolo Hall. Students who attend four or more sessions will receive a mini-medical school cer­tificate. 
251-0674 
MATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Hcalthy•Delicious 
Robert Is the BEST Chef In Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
I.Unf•h II ..Hv1un-Hun•l 11111\t'tr\ UMon-Sat/5·10 Jo'l 1& Sut 
Dr. Kurt Spellmeyer 
of 
The Rutgers University Writing Program 
The Return of the Sacred: Religious Discourses in Popular Culture 
Monday, March 30 7:00P.M. Center for Continuing Education room. 210-214 West Lounge 
FOR tb•· EDUCATION""" RESEARCH COMMUNITY 
OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM. 





TIAA-CREF. 
W 
hen it comes to planning a comfort­Today, TIAA-CREF can help you able future, America's best and achieve even more of'your financial goals. brightest turn to the expert: TIAA-CREF. From tax-deferred annuities and IRAs With over $200 billion in assets under to mutual funds, you 'II find the flexibility management, we're the world's largest and choice you need, backed by a proven retirement system, the nation's leader in history of' performance, remarkably low customer satisfaction~ and the overwhelm­expenses, and peerless commitment to ing choice of people in education, research, personal service. and related fields. 
Find Out For Yourself Expertise You Can Count On 
To learn more about the world's 
For 80 years, TIAA-CREF has introduced premier retirement organization, talk to intelligent solutions to America's long-term one of our retirement planning experts planning needs. We pioneered the portable at I 800 842-2776 (8 a.m.-II p.m. ET). pension, invented the variable annui~y. and Or better still. speak to one of'your popularized the very concept of stock investing colleagues. Find out why. when it comes for retirement. In fact, we manage the largest to planning for tomorrow, great minds stock account in the world. think alike. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 
0 1997 J)ALBAR [)cfincd Contribution Excellence Rating!>. Past pcrf'or·mann: i:-. no guamntcc of luturt• rc!->llh~. CREF l'crtilieatcs and intcrcsb in the TIAA Real Estate Acl'Ount are distributed by TIAA-CREF lndividu.:tl and Institutional St•r·vin·:.. Fur rnnrc mmplt:tt· inlill'lnatinn, induding l'harges and expenses, t·all I 800 H42-27.')3, extension !)[,()9, f'ur the prnspcL•tuses. Rcml IIH'm e;an·l'ully l)l'l'on.• ynu invt'sl or st'nd mnncy. 2j9H 


Monday, March 30, 1998 
• VVmRD NEWS BRIEFS 
Florida to execute Buenoano 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

Judy Buenoano perfected the art of murder by poison when she killed her husband and boyfriend, but she failed when she switched to dynamite and tried to kill her fiance. Buenoano, the 54-year-old inmate known as the "black widow." is scheduled to die at 7 
a.m. Monday in Florida's electric chair for the 1971 arsenic poisoning of Air Force Sgt. James Goodyear. Barring a last-minute stay, Buflnoano would be the first woman to die in Florida's electric chair. and the 42nd inmate to die since the state resumed the death penalty in 1979. She would also be the first woman to be executed in Florida since 1848 when a freed slave was hanged in Jacksonville for killing her master. 

Peruvian plane crash kills 28 
LIMA. Peru 

A I'Pruvian air force plane carrying vil­lagPrs stranded by flooding crashed into a shantytown in the northern city of Piura on Sunday, killing 28 people, President Alberto Fujimori said. Fujimori told reporters that 28 passengers died, 15 survived and seven were unaccounted for. SomP passengers walked from the wrflr.kage with minor injuries, he said. The Russian-made Antonov military transport plane was carrying people strand­ed by El Nino-driven flooding from the city of Tumbes near the Ecuadorean border to Piura. 530 miles northwest of Lima. when it fell to earth 6 miles from Piura airport. The pilot had radioed the control tower prior to the crash to report that one engine had failed, Fujimori said. The plane crashed nose first into a drainage channel in the shanty­town, splitting into two pieces, he said. There were no reports of deaths on the ground. 

Taliban jets bomb city center 
KABUL, Afghanistan 

Taliban jets pounded the northern city of Pul-e-Kumri on Sunday, killing five_ people and wounding dozens more, said a spokesman for the anti-Tali ban opposition that controls the area. Jets roared in low, dropping three bombs in the city center, said Mohammed Shahabuddin. Three women and two children were killed when a bomb landed near a veg­etable market, he said. Another bomb landed near a power station, and the city's power was interrupted briefly, Shahabuddin said. Taliban fighters have bombed the city for the past sev­eral days, while outside the city both sides are locked in a ferocious battle. The anti-Taliban alliance. led by ousted President Burhanuddin Rabbani and his defeated military chief Ahmed Shah Massood, controls about 15 per­cent of Afghanistan. 
NYSE: 569.80 -2.41 

S&P 500: I 095.44 Composite -5.36 Volume:8796.08 692,932,120 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

ruMrars:r: IICta;B 11it CH4IS~E I !:i611S ~BICE 
ECOMAT INC  ECMT  51.72  0.938  
ATRIX INTL  ATXI  50.00  1.125  
CONOLOG CORr  CNLG  50.00  1.000  
ACCENT COLOR 5C  ACLR  40.28  0.906  
MANUGISTICS GRr  MANJ  39.97  15.188  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

ONCOR INC ONC 55.17 2.000 TRANSC RYrT INTL TRII 39.70 6.500 INFOCUS SYSTEMS INFS 33.41 4.719 INSTRUMENT L-ADR ILABY 27.03 0.625 ONCORMED INC ONM 24.00 1.500 
2.750 3.375 3.000 3.156 53.188 
1.625 9.875 9.406 1.688 4.750 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 


Clinton's Africa tour stops in Botswana 

AssociATED PRESS 
GABORONE, Botswana 

U.S. President Bill Clinton arrived Sunday in Botswana to begin the sec­ond week of his six-nation tour of Africa with a safari through a park with 45,000 elephants. 
The White House described the president's planned adventure as a "photo safari," with no plans for hunting any of the Chobe National Park's elephants, hippos, crocodiles, baboons, impalas or birds. 
Outgoing President Ketumile Masire met Clinton and his large entourage of officials and American business people at the Gaborone air­port. The American president arrived two days before Masire's departure from office. He hands power over to 
. ,I\$S. 
GAZA CITY, GazaStrip 
Israel c 
talks, With 
su~i:lay ... < g n9 n,ew troop pullbacks frm;uthe West Ban an prq~e~d without ty plt;J"~ges fron}the . a estlnians.. 
Graphically under~cor· ing Israel's s~curity, fe<.\rs, a P(JWerful !:itF ex.pl()$ion killed at least one person Sunday nightin the West Bank town of Ramallah. lsraeli rAlr'lm't.ii::said ·"'"'""'"­iti 
his vice president, Festus Mogae, on Monday. 
Clinton, accompanied by his wife, Hillary, and by U.S. black leader Jesse Jackson, attended church in Soweto Sunday before flying to Botswana. He urged South Africans to keep faith as they mend their nations from the scars of apartheid. 
"It takes a long time to run a marathon," Clinton said, adding that the United States will "run that race with you." 
The organist played "America the Beautiful" and the crowd of worship­pers cheered as Clinton and his group arrived. 
"For you to come here, you bring us joy and happiness and peace," a church leader told Clinton and his party. 
On Saturday, Clinton honored S9uth Africans "who answered the call of conscience" and defeated their coun­try's system of white supremacy. 
Throughout the six-nation trip, Clinton has been stressing the U.S. stake in Africa, pledging to battle for more aid and debt relief as well as investment. 
"This is not charity. This is enlight­ened self interest," Clinton said in Soweto, adding that aid and trade go hand in hand. 
American businesses are getting an average return of 30 percent on investments in Africa, the president said. "This is a good deal, folks." 
Clinton said he would urge the U.S. Congress to restore African aid to its historic high level -$830 million a year. Currently it is $700 million, and Clinton has requested a $30 million increase this year. 
~id )l(Jt~peakto te'potters~ 
·· Ross, who arrived in the 
region Thursday, has bee!l 
· £)huttling b~tweep the two 
, ,~1.lo;;u•I ..•. sides 8,ll. effort to br~a,k 
, y Jong impasse in 
the pea(j() talks. 
Ear. .Sunday, Arafat 
welt:() ...... tl what he said 
·· was an American proposal 
for an international sum­
mit in Washington, a 
meethl.gthat could give 
him the politicaFjustifica­
tion to continue the peace 
fails 
wtn t:toncel;sl~)l1s'· from 






VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Monday, March 30, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcinthalc:r Kyle Carlin 
A.'i.,ISTANT MANAGING EDnoR Hc:arhc:r MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ......................... Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull Ao DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huda< SPORTS EDITOR .....................Ka<hleen lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS. .. ...... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow 
Kris<i Klirsch CONTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ............. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
"lbc: ()bscrvc:r is the indepc::ndcnl newspaper publi!!.hed by the !>tudcnts of the: University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mouy's College. h docs no1 necessarily reflect the: policies of rhe administration ofeither insrinnion. The news is reponed ~accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority of the F.ditor·in·Chief, M.maging Editor, Assi!otam Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vi~ of the aU[hors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer, Viewpoint space is available to all mcmbcn uf the Nnue Dame/Saint Mary's community and m all readers. The free expr~ion of varying opmions through letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assisram ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phoro 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Sa1111 Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim. I @nd.edu Day Ediror/Viewpoim 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observcr@daJWin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Informacion 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• DIGGING DEEPER 

Catholic Repentance and Pope Pius XII 
The Observer recently printed a Vatican news story worthy of their front page. The article was an analysis of the recent document entitled, "We Hemember: A Hefleetion of the Shoa [IIolocaust]," issued by the Vatican Commission on Helations with the Jews. The Obs"erver article states: "The document, which calls it<>elf 'an aet of repentance,' nevertheless skirts the painful issue of the Vatican's silence about Nazi atrocities during World War 
II. It also ignores the accusations leveled against Pope Pius XII, choosing to focus on his role in rescuing the Jews instead." It goes on to quote Father Hichard 

Aaron Kheriaty 
McBrien of the Notre Dame theology department: "They let Pius XII oil' a little too lightly. The document slides over the controversy. I think that was a mistake ... There was a lot of evil and a lot of silence and eomplicity." 
McBrien's position ought not to bn taken lightly. I agree that a "sharpnr inquiry" into actual history of the event is nocessary, espm~ially eonsidering that Pius XIJ's cause for eanonization is in progress. Two recent books. Margherita Marchione's "Your's is a precious Witness,'' and Michael O'Carroll's "Pius 
XII. Gn~atness Dishonored: A Documented Study" seck to do just that. 
Chin!' Habbi of Homn during the war, lsnwl Zolli. publidy expnlSSild the grati­tude of the Jews to the Pope when he vis­ited Pius XII in July of 1944 "to oflicially thank him for all he, personally and through the Catholics in Home, had done in favor of the Jews, opening convents and monasteries, dispensing with papal cloister as statP.d in canon law, so that Jews could be received even in female monastnries and protected from the fury 

of the Nazis." Chief Habbi Zolli converted 
to Catholicism after the war ended. 
Marchione writes, "While conducting ser­
vices in the fall of 1944, he had a vision of 
Christ in a white cape that irradiated an 
inexpressible peace, while a voice 
resounded in his heart: 'you are here for 
the last time.' On Feb. 13, 1945, Habbi 
Zolli was baptized a Christian and took 
the name of Eugenio [Pius XII's given 
name] to express his gratitude for what 
Pius XII had done for the Jews." 
Other Jewish testimonies of those saved by the Holy Father during the Holocaust abound. Representing the Hebrew Commission after the war, Dr. Joseph Nathan addressed the Jewish Community with this statement, reprinted in L'Osservatore Romano: "We express our heartfelt gratitude to those who protected and saved us during the Nazi-Fascist )Jer­secutions. Above all, we acknowledge the supreme Pontifl' and the religious men and women who, executing the directives of the Holy Father, recognized the perse­cuted as their brothers and, with great abnegation, hastened to help them, disre­garding the terrible dangers to which they were exposed." In a sermon at the Temple Israel in New York City, 1958, Dr. William Rosenblum spoke of Pius XII, who made it possible for "thousands of Jewish victims of Nazism and Fascism to be hidden away in monasteries and con­vent<> of the various Catholic orders and for Jewish children to be taken into Catholic orphanages." lie called the Pope a "great religious leader whose works for brotherliness and peace in a time of erisis in our history should remain as an exam­ple to emulate." The senior Rabbi, Dr. Julius Mark. spoke thus at Pius' death: "We mourn the passing of a great reli­gious statesman and spiritual leader. Pope Pius XII. Possessed of a brilliant mind, a compassionate heart and a dedi­cated spirit, II is Holiness gave of himself generously and self-sacrilicingly to the sacred task of world peace founded on justice. May his soul be bound up in the bond of everlasting life." At the suggestion that he publicize the charitable works of the Church after the war. Pius XII 
responded, "Only God must be testimony 
to what one does for his neighbor." 
Despite contrary evidence, accusations of 'silence' still haunt this Pope. In 1995, the diseovery of a so-called "lost encycli­cal" (which attacked totalitarian and anti­Semitic and racist systems) threatened to cause a Vatican scandal, since this "encyclical" was never released. The doc­ument was written by the American Jesuit Father John LaFarge, who was summoned ·to the Vatican by Pius XII's predecessor, Pius XI. The final draft of the document, entitled Hwnani Generis Unitas, arrived too late; Pius XI had already fallen ill and died. The "encycli­cal" was never a papal document; it con­tained no annotations by Pius XI or his successor. Jesuit historian Robert 
'QNLY Gon MUST BE 
TESTIMONY TO WHAT 
ONE DOES FOR HIS NEIGH­
BOR.' 
POPE PIUS XII 
Graham Green criticized the text for it<> tone and faulty theological concepts, say­ing "thank God it was never published." 
However, Pius XII did publish a differ­ent encyclical which condemned Nazi practices. Marchione notes that "as his predecessor's Secretary of State, Pius XII had played a vital part in framing the encyclical Mit Brennender Sorge, which was direeted at Hitler's Germany, and condemned, among other things, the 'myth of blood and raee. "' 
Pius XII's first encyclieal, Summi Pontilicatus dearly, if implicitly, denounced Nazi totalitarian policies. The French were so pleased that they dropped, by air over Germany, thousands of copies in miniature. The eneydical was so anti-Nazi that Nazi authorities restrict­ed its publication in Germany. 
For those who still think Pius XII was not outspoken enough, consider the 
•DOONESBURV 
TH/9 /9 !<OLANOHea.&Y 
CW CAPI77Jt... H/U. AS 
P~Re FOR A caH­
P/?&::H/iNS/11!3 i'll:C4QZ~F 
Tkl-"'tWI-Ct:WT/N/$5 70 
M()(JNT,.. 
I 

,.W.£ 708ACCO !NPIJ977<YIS 
5CI?AM8t!M'31NMIAT rr 
VltWS~A r16HTFa'? 175 vei?Y13XISJeNC&/ 
I 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

~&NASI SPeA/<, fJOZENS OP NW 7lJ8ACCO to88YIG7!3 ARl3 !Je/N6 TRAIN&!? FOR 
THE COMI/Ik3 5HOIUI?OJUN/ 
I 

words of Cardinal Paolo Dezza. who worked closely with the Popn: "Pius XII did a great deal to help the Jews perse­cuted by the Nazis and Fascists. He abstained from making public declara­tions in favor of both Catholics and Jews who were being persecuted by Ilitler because, whenever he did spnak, Hitler had his revenge by committing worse acts of violence against thnm. The clergy and bishops in Germany [not to mention the German Jews) begged him to keep silence." As James Aiken said, "While the armchair quarterbacks of anti-Catholic cirdes may have wished the Pope to issue, in Axis territory and during wartime, ringing, propagandistic state­ments against the Nazis, the Pope real­ized that sueh was not an option if he were actually to save Jewish lives rathnr than simply mug for the cameras." 
And so the truth unfolds. Ilistory con­tradicts a position largely taken by thosn for whom the Chair of Peter is a stum­bling block. With the current evidence, only a half-baked historical analysis allo"Ys one to condemn the action taken by Pius XII during World War II. Catholic contrition is appropriate fbr "the errors and failures of thosn sons and daughtnrs of the Church" who complied in the hor­rors of the llolocausL But history testifies that Pope Pius XII, who according to his­tm·ian Pinellas Lapidn saved an estimated 860,000 Jewish lives. was cnrtainly not among those who turned a blind nyc. I quote Jewish physicist Albert Einstein: "Only the Catholic Church protested against the llitlerian onslaught on libnrty. Up till then I had not been interested in the Church, but today I feel a gmat admi­ration for the Church, which alone has had the courage to struggle fi1r spiritual truth and moral liberty." 
Aaron Kheriaty is ajwzior pre-pro.Ji's­sional and philosophy major. !lis column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol necessari­ly those ofThe Obseruer. 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The whole world is my spittoon.' 
-Lee Walker 


VIEWPOINT
Monday, March 30, 1998 page 7 
• JED! M!NO TRICKS 
Insanity Abounds on Campus 
Insane. That is the word I use to tor decrying the lack of sincerity of describe most of the people I come Bengal Bouts. Like sheep, the box­across these days. It may be some­ers wrote and wrote and wrote let­one I have just met or someone I ters to the editor defending some­have known for quite a long time. thing that needs no defending. But But no matter where I look, the bot­they were just following"the tradi­tom line is they are insane. tion where some insane person 
Take last Friday's Observer for calls a college "parasites" or a example. First 
===============-group "aliens" and 
you have Gary because Notre Caruso who, 25 Dame has fostered years removed such a utopian from Notre existence for its 
Kevin Dame, still feels pampered masses, the need to tell everyone goes Notre Dame insane, protests


Patrick

students what and screams, and they should then fades back to think. Besides their comfortable 
the fact that his ideology completely blinds him from writing anything objective or insightful, this is supposed to be Notre Dame's student newspaper­let it go already. 
You have to realize, I feel bad that I am a grad student writing for what I think should be an under­graduate newspaper. But when you actually read this paper, only one word comes to mind: insane. In the same Friday paper, there was a sophomore who is supposedto be a regular contributor (i.e. have some­thing that amounts to more than just his immature whims). His pseu­do-column rambled on about how Resident Assistant (he even had the title wrong} selections consisted of turning away any candidate with individual thought and accepting any candidate who was a "yes man." 
Despite the fact that this column was woefully inadequate in length, any one can read between the lines and see that his column was a trib­ute to a probable drinking buddy who, despite a rap sheet as long as Charles Manson's, didn't get select­ed to be an RA. What a waste of space. FYI: Reactions to lack of selection like the one in Friday's paper are simply confirmations that the right decision was made. At least Gary Caruso's column was some real world application. 
Of course, we had more letters to the editor about Father David Garrick's excommunication from the Church. Of course that's not true, but then again, neither are any of the allegations being levied against the University in every edi­tion of The Observer. But why let truth get in the way of wasting energy on some trumped up protest of some debilitating travesty thrust upon those oh-so oppressed Domers. I spoke with multiple Priests who haven't been afforded the luxury and privilege to say mass in the Basilica in over five years. 
Also, Garrick's "suspension" claims are disingenuous at best. Mainly because he's not suspended. The only one who can suspend him is Bishop Darcy and that hasn't happened. But, why let the truth get in the way of unbridled insanity. Life at Notre Dame is so comfort­able that if you don't get your way no matter how insane, you scream and protest. Insane. 
This is not to say that being gay at Notre Dame is comfortable. Far from it. I don't wish their suffering on anyone. But I don't think a pro­tester at Malcolm X University could get the same sympathy from these individuals if this protester wanted to have that University fund a KKK student organization. Something about the KKK being antithetical to what the Malcolm X University stands for might hold that approval up. 
In previous weeks, we read about a guy whose girlfriend dumped him and started dating a boxer, so of course he wrote a letter to the edi­existence. 
We also see that South Bend weather has gone insane. Everyone in shorts and t-shirts this weekend: Get those parkas ready, because it will be 15 degrees with a hail storm in the near future. But this is spring in South Bend which means it's time for new loves or to abandon old ones. 
If you talk to any male or female about how they are behaving with their new mate, you cringe at their insanity. And how about those get­ting out of a relationship? How insane are these people who put up with all the disrespect their insane lesser half puts them through because they don't have the sanity to just end it! Some people think it is Spring Fever; I think it is insani­ty. 
Of course this time of year at Notre Dame brings out people who will duct tape their entire body, publicly wear nothing but jock straps, flash their opposition, dress up as the Smurfs, or just make complete fools of themselves watch­ing a pick-up basketball game. Of course, Notre Dame calls this Bookstore Basketball. I call it insane. 
Think about it. Every Saturday in the fall, students brave the cold and rain and scream their heads off for the exact same people they will mercilessly heckle in the spring. And what about the changing alle­giances of the Bookstore crowd. For the first half, hundreds attack one team, but when that same team loses a player due to injury or whatever, those same hundreds rally behind the very players they were attacking minutes before. Insane. 
Now of course some of the Bookstore antics are fun. Some are not. Some of the quirks of entering into and exiting from relationships are fun. Some are not. Some of the rivalry between ideological adver­saries in columns is fun. Some of the mean spirited poorly thought out, immature ramblings are not. 
Now some things have been said in this column that were a bit direct and might touch a sensitive nerve with different segments of the pop­ulation. This of course could set off a wave of letters complaining of its content. If we are really lucky there may even be a protest or rally. This all would lead me to conclude either the masses are too caught up with themselves to see the forest from the trees or maybe I'm the one who is insane. 
Kevin Patrick is a third-year JD/MBA student. He generally thinks most ofthese problems could be solved ifthese students were simply forced to grow up. He can be reached at kevin. d.patrick.16@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this col­
umn are those ofthe author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

South Quad: The Great North Quad Parasite 

We are writing in response to the recent influx of South Quad students into the North Dining Hall. We want to explain what is really the matter here. We under­stand that the food and conditions at the South Dining Hall may not be "up to par" these days; however, we would like to remind South Quad residents that you do not live in North Quad. Our parents shell out about $25,000 a year so that we can live on North Quad, well distanced from buildings such as Dillon Hall. 
We are tired of hearing about the "Notre Dame community." South Quad is like the Great North Quad Parasite. They use our parking lots, our science building and even our library. Now, in the travesty for all times, South Quad students are con­stantly eating at the North Dining Hall, and we are extremely disturbed by this. Since Monday, it has become much more difficult for the rightful patrons of the din­ing hall to enjoy a tranquil, uncrowded, dining environment. As North Quad resi­dents who worked hard to get into this school, we are tired of South Quad people infringing on our quad. It is time to take back our quad! We hope that South Quad residents have this letter to chew on for a while, while we "suffer" through another crowded NOH meal. 
Joe Hauser and John Broussard Concerned North Quad Residents March 23, 1998 
RAs Not Just 'Warden Puppets' 
As present Resident Assistants, we found Mr. Kerr's article entitled, "RA's Just Warden Puppets" (March 27) to be highly insulting, ignorant and bitter. As a sophomore with a mere year and a half of residence hall living, we feel that Mr. Kerr lacks the experience and accurate knowledge to comment on the selection process and the complete duties of an RA, Rector and hall staff. 
During the last year, we have learned that being an RA involves a great deal more than enforcing the rules and sim­ply serving as a "puppet" wrapped "around" the rector's finger as Mr. Kerr so wrongly suggests. We do appreciate that Mr. Kerr recognizes that the "responsibility" of a hall staff is "huge" and that our main purpose is to "foster the growth of the residents and promote the family tradition." However, Mr. Kerr fails to recognize the enormous amount of time, effort and dedication demanded of all members of a hall staff to achieve such a goal. Residence life is an integral part of the Notre Dame experience, for it is in the residence halls that friendships are formed, joys are shared and cele­brated, and obstacles are overcome. 
Having recently selected the Welsh Family Hall Staff for the 1998-99 acade­mic year, we would like to share the actual criteria that we used to make our very difficult decision. No, Mr. Kerr, we did not seek "dorks ... familiar with the words 'yes' and 'master'." In fact, there is no one "ideal" candidate for the posi­tion of RA. We guarantee that every RA on this campus has "taken the time to lift [his/her] nose from the books and take the brave step outside [his/her] own room." In addition to looking at each candidate individually, we tried to create a team composed of diverse women with strengths and weaknesses that compli­ment each other, such that they will be of greatest service to the women of our hall. 
As a staff this year, we handled many challenging situations, the least of which is rule enforcement. Our primary goal throughout the year has been and con­tinues to be a fostering of the academic, spiritual, and emotional growth of our residents. Our position is both time-con­suming and emotionally demanding and requires individuals who are confident enough to independently handle difficult situations. If RAs were spineless "war­den puppets" who only know "when to keep [their mouths] shut," as you sug­gest, no residence hall would function. 

Mr. Kerr, it is unfortunate that you have such a skewed perspective of hall staffs; for, it is individuals like yourself who taint the uniqueness of residence hall life at the University of Notre Dame. As RAs, we know that we are not alone when we say that we have enjoyed our opportunity to give back to the institu­tion that has given us so much. Even though this experience has been difficult and challenging at times, the rewards from our role greatly outweigh the sacri­fices we have made. 
Furthermore, Mr. Kerr, as Notre Dame students, we are unbelievably blessed to be served by such capable, dedicated and talented leaders as each of our rec­tors continuously prove to be. Despite your ignorance, we assure you that the goal of the rector is NOT to obtain a higher office, but to encourage, support and participate in the endeavors and lives of the hall staff and the residents. Mr. Kerr, we hope that you now realize that it is the hall staff, including the Rector, Assistant Rector(s) and Resident Assistants, who strive every day to keep the "family" in Notre Dame. 
Danielle Gray and Melinda Sinclair 4th floor RAs Welsh Family Hall March 28, 1998 



0 ,.,.:



···t/1 E 
v, •...,, 

page 8 --------------------------------~OBSERVER -----------------Monday, March 30, 1998 



A salute to the red, white and blue 
conseience and sense of morality become as much a part of her "profession" as the tapes whieh she might

Director: Mike Nichols 

create to bloteh the opponents image.
Starring: john Travolta, Emma Thompson, Billy 
Bob Thornton and Kathy Bates 
• 
~l) ...J's.) J'S.) ...J'i) 
(Out offive shamrocks) 
By MIKE McMORROW Scene Movie Critic 
People have said that the timing of "Wag the Dog" was next to perfect, but I'd be more inclined to say that the timing of "Primar:,-Colors" eap­tures the political mood of the coun­try more successfully. 
"Wag the Dog" focused on the way our political system is so easily prone to farce. And while "Primary Colors" can certainly be read to portray a similar stance, it also gets at the complexities that the media ignores when attacking political issues, per­sonalities, and scandals and the way in which those highly involved fig­ures al'fnct eaeh other's own morali­ties and capaeitios for amorality. 
One key character in the film is ini­tially portrayed as a political shark -like the Hobert DeNiro character in "Wag the Dog" -with a very abrasive edge. And while this image does not become lot<dly inaccurate as her character, played by Kathy Bates, becomes more developed, her 


Where the 'Wild Things' Are 


Direcror: john McNaughton Starring: Neve Campbell, Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, Bill Murray and Denise Richards 
. . ) .. ' ) 
~i) ...Jl) :.J'i) 
(Out offive shamrocks) 
By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE Scene Movie Critic 
Are you good at keeping secrets? 
Beeently a trend has begun in llollywood in which directors attempt to shock their viewers with a surprise 1mding-notable examples include "The Crying Game" and "The Usual Suspects." The newest project from dirnctor John McNaughton, "Wild Things," seems another installment in this chapter of' Hollywood. The studio actually attempted to prevent rnview­ers from revealing the ending by hand­ing out a formal plea at the premiere. 
Previews for this film made the pro­ject appear to be another movie with graphic nudity and tasteless sex. The film does contain some gratuitous sex, but my main eoneern with "Wild T~1ings" actually involves the story and lines of dialogue. 
Throughout the 111m I found myself continually wondering how serious a project this film truly was. Did this film want to be seen as a parody of the sur­prise ending and the recent Florida Noir films like "Palmetto?" 

The film stars John Travolta as Jack Stanton, a progressive Southern Demoeratic governor who is in the primary for the Democratic Presidential nomina­tion. It's no secret that this character is unabashedly based on 
Bill Clinton, just as his wife (Emma Thompson) is based on Hillary. 
Billy Bob Thornton plays Richard, a key campaign manager, and Bates is Lilly, the "Robert DeNiro eharac­ter." 
The film uses the character of Henry Burton, played by Adrian Lester, as it's focal point for narra­tive. Burton had worked in govern­ment before, but this is the first time that he entered into campaign orga­nizing. 
Burton's jQurney throughout the campaign provides the framework for the film. His internal struggles represent an idealistic outlook on the prospects for a decrease on political mudslinging while most of the other eharacters seem to have accepted the necessary cynicism that one must obtain in order to play the game of politics successfully. 
Travolta's portrayal of Clinton, ahem, Stanton, is a delicate balance between portraying genuine concern for the people and a necessary cyni-
The film includes numerous moments which many audience members found rather humorous. Therefore, director John McNaughton is either a master of camp or mere­ly a dreadful film maker. 
"Wild Things" includes an all-star cast that skill­fully develops a sultry look at crime and money in the Everglades region of Florida. The film is set in Blue Bay, an area which seems gilded in gold leaf, but under the 
surface lies a layer of pure scum. 
The film stars Matt Dillon as Sam Lombardo, a high school guidance counselor with a jack rabbit's libido. lie appears to have chosen an excel­lent location t.o call home as every women in the film seems hypnotized by his charm and handsome figure. 
This charm eventually becomes a handicap as Kelly Van Ryan (played by Denise Richards), a beautiful high school student from a wealthy back­ground, aggressively pursues the attention of this leading man in a scene that eould belong in most any soft-core pornography. Kelly offers to wash Mr. Lombardo's Jeep as part of a class fund-raiser, but not as a selfless act of charity. With a friend she goes to his house, slips in a few sexual innuendoes such as "Where's your hose?" and then proceeds to wash the truck. 
Without thinking too hard, what eolor. clothes do you think the shapely young actress wears for this secne? If you guessed white you are correct. In fact costuming takes this one stop fur­cism. If there is a weakness in his performance, it is that the viewer cannot tell the degree to which this genuine concern is a front. Oftentimes Travolta doesn't seem to decide whether he wants to put on a 

Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 
John Travolta, Emma Thompson and Adrian Lester star in the 
new political satiire "Primary Colors." 
front or show his real altruistic side. 
Emma Thompson, however, plays her role as the wife beautifully. Watching her character possess the necessary two-faced side (her private life versus her public life) that is inherent to being a politician is a joy. 
But the real focus of "Primary 
ther by having her wear a white T­shirt, a white bra, white shorts, and white underwear which she gets absolutely soaked. Could this ploy be any more obvious? This constructs her as a highly sexualized character and an incredible temptation for all men in the film, leading any viewer to wonder if Sam can be trusted to keep a respectable student-faculty relation­ship. 
Here it appears the sex drive of the 
young faculty mem­ber takes control as Kelly later accuses Mr. Lombardo of rape. The allega­tions build as anoth­er student steps for­ward with an identi­cal claim. 
The other student is Suzie· Toller, a troubled youth and drug addict, played by Neve Campbell. The allegations incite a poliee inves­tigation led by detec­tives Ray Duquette (Kevin Bacon) and Gloria Perez 
in "Wild Things." 
(Daphne Rubin-Vega). 
Pressure to solve this case comes from the wealthy members of Blue Bay society, personified by Kelly's mother Sandra Van Ryan (Theresa Russell). The mother seems out for revenge, as she was once Sam's lover and finds this violation of her daughter a person­al insult. The case eventually goes to court forcing Sam to seek representa­tion from an ambulance chasing lawyer, Ken Bowden, played by Bill Murray. 
You might wonder what Bill Murray Colors" is the cynicism that Americans who earn and are involved in the progrnssivo must face. Some play along and say that they love it. while som1~ try to bring an idealistic front to it. 

Tlw reality that the film realizes and illustrates to the audience is that one must acknowledge and participate in this cynical atmos­phere in order to be a pa.rt of' the system. Tho real horror of the film is that people who participate in the game may fnel that they are above the mudslinging atmos­phere and are playing along simply to enjoy thn ridiculousness of the system. but tt1ese peop)l) really end· up getting laughed at by the system itself. Nobody really wins although everyone wants to and some think they actually do. 
The eharaeter in 
the f'ilm who realizes 
this was mentioned 
in the first para­

graph, and if you see the film, you'll see what kind of effect that has. Or perhaps everybody recogniznd just what has been said here, and only that one charactnr had the courage to come to the self-realization that she was part of it. 
is doing in a sexy crime thriller, but he actually puts forth a great perfor­mance by clinging to the humor that established his eareer. IIis one liners become one of the strongest elements of the film, and the neck brace he wears as part of an insurance seam is simply hilarious. 
To reveal any morn of the plot would be a crime so the ending will remain a secret. The film leaves the viewer guessing and I enjoyed trying to caku­
latn where 


the story was going next. I do suggest you watch the film closely and be sus­picious of' everyone's motives. 

Tho east puts togeth­er a fasci­nating per­formance­Photo Courtesy of Columbia Pictures both serious 
Neve Campbell and Denise Richards get wild 
and humor­
ous at the 

same time. To understand the intended objective of' the film one would have to ask director John McNaughton, but the faet that it seems so ambiguous makes for an enjoyable film. 
My one real qualm arrives with the "credit cookies" scene intercut with the final credits. I felt this an unneces­sary way of explaining every charac­ters motives, an insult to an attentive viewer. Otherwise, I recommend this wild look at life in steamy Florida and hope you appreciate McNaughton's love of surprises. 

0 

Monday, March 30, 1998 --------------~OBSERVER ------------------------------------------------page9 
• VIDEO PtCKS OF THE WEEK 
Foster makes 'Contact' in science--fiction flick 

As the movie would not be interesting or complete without the star making the trip to outer space, private contractors choose Ellie as the passenger on a
Director: Robert Zemeckis 
secretly built second machine in Japan. What follows is an awesome sequence of space travel, controversy over the
Starring: jodie Foster, Matthew 
authenticity of that space travel, and the 
McConaughey and Tom Skerritt 
inevitable end of the film. 
As a science-fiction flick, "Contact" is undoubtedly one of the best of the past few years, blending typically modern By MICHAEL VANEGAS 
special effects with thought provoking Assistant Scene Editor 
dialogue and excellent acting. But one must watch this movie on a higher level Emerging from the summer of 1997's to understand the age old conflict that the crop of big-budget, empty cinematic relationship between Ellie and love inter­
entertainment was "Contact," a film 
estJtheologian Palmer Joss (Matthewbased on Carl Sagan's novel of the same McConaughey} presents -the reconcilia­name. The movie concerns the discovery tion of science with religion. Truly, this of a message emanating from outer space movie is this conflict and it attempts to -the dis-find a reason­able way to pro­duce an answer for us viewers. 
To put it sim­ply, an atheistic scientist (Ellie} struggles with a world insistent on the existence of God. After taking the trip through outer space, she encounters the aliens that con­tacted our world, in an almost heavenly setting. Unexpectedly, the aliens show themselves in the form of Ellie's dead
tent signifi-astronomer on a quest to find l1fe 1n outer space, 1n father.
· "Contact." 
cance and . 
Upon her implications instantaneous return to earth, she con­of the outer space message. 
fronts a flurry of speculation concerning After the United States government the reality of her space travel. At an takes over Ellie's project to decode the 
inquiry concerning her journey, she 
message, the meaning of the message is reveals that she has a greater sense of the uncovered as a blueprint for a trans­nature of humanity and the nature of portation machine. Contributor's from God, thus expressing her belief in that 
around the world move to build the 
God. Viewers come away from this movie machine, and a committee gathers to with that reconciliation between science 
decide the passenger who would be the 
and religion. Supremely scientific 
first representative of earth in the 
Arroway proves to believe in the supreme encounter of another world with Ellie 
God. 

being one of the top contenders. She 
"Contact" is a conglomeration of many eventually loses to colleague and arrogant cinematic genres. It is a love story, a sci­nemesis, David Drumlin (Tom Skerritt} ence-fiction tale and a suspenseful drama 
and must watch as an unfortunate 
with moments of comic relief. Above all, it 
mishap kills both Drumlin and the 
is a struggle to understand humanity in machine. 
the midst of an impenetrable universe. 


'Stagecoach' sets stage for modern Western cinema 


films, rarely was Wayne ever the holder of a cameo or bit part. 
The abscence of Wayne's dominating presence in the film accomplishes two things. First, it allows the other characters to shine in their particular roles­Thomas Mitchell won an Academy Award for his portrayal of the drunken doctor, a staple of most Westerns to follow. Surprisingly, because of the lack of Wayne's domineering presence, his acting 
ByJOS}-IBECK also comes through beautifully, and we Scene Movie Critic get a rare look at a young John Wayne 
worthy of an Oscar (although the only one 
Not only is the film "Stagecoach" a he received was for his 1969 film "True tragemark of classic American film, it is Grit"}. also responsible for thrusting John Wayne Critics agree that the story of into the spotlight and for the maturation "Stagecoach" did indeed mature the con­of the great genre of the Western. cept of the Western and was the catalyst 
Released in 1939 and directed by John for an era that would last through the Ford, this ftlm was well ahead years. The rustic yet exotic life of the of its time in many ways. cowboy was too much for audi­However, the thing ences to resist, and the that hits tpe view­story of a bevy of inter­er with the esting characters trav­most force is eling across Arizona not the was one of the dominat­main ·reasons. ing pres­For those who ence of may think that t h e this film is too Duke or dated for your t h e taste, you are beauty sadly mistak­of the en. This film cine­has action, matog­romance, plot, raphy­character devel­it is the opment and acting. incredible acting. Since most And perhaps acting from moviegoers of our the early twen­generation need early tieth century can films like this to remind be considered too us that the great films of blatant and straightfor­today were based on something ward much earlier in 
Photo Courtesy of United Artists 
with-time.
John Wayne and Claire Trevor star in "Stagecoach," the 
0 u t Watching
1939 film that set the precedent for the modern Western. 
much "Stagecoach" is dimen-like watching a sion, it is pleasing to see a movie from history of American film. Ford, who dur­such an early period with characters pos­ing his career directed too many Westerns sessing so much dimension that they to count, created a film whose cinematog­make some modern-day actors pale by raphy is a great example of where mod­comparison. ern filmmaking draws its roots. 
The other extremely pleasing aspect of For those of you whose grandparents the film is the fact that it does not let love a good film, remember that Wayne steal the spotlight from everyone "Stagecoach" was from their generation else (although his famous introductory and just as we love our movies today for scene speaks for itself), and this is incredi­many different reasons, they too also bly uncharacteristic of his films. Granted, loved the ftlms which graced the screen "Stagecoach" was only his sixth film at during their childhood. that point, but Duke-watchers will agree It is also true these movies are not made that during a career which spanned anymore, and the vault which the video almost 50 years and included close to 100 store holds is more valuable all the time. 



Video Title
Movie Title/(Gross Sales) 
1 ' The Devil's Advocate 

1. Titanic ($16 million) 
2. G. l. jane

2. Grease ($13 million) 
3. The Game

3. Primary Colors ($7.3 million) 
4. Air Force One

4. The Man .in the Iron Mask ($6.6 million) 
5. The Edge

5. Wild Things ($5.8 million) 
6. Mad City

6. As Good as it Gets ($4.3 million) 
7. Conspiracy Theory 
Good Will Hunting ($4.3 million) 
8. Eve's Bayou

8. U.S. Marshals ($4.2 million) 
9. In & Out

9. The Newton Boys ($4 million) 
10. The Peacemaker

10. Ride ($2.6 million) 
Source: VSDA online

Source: NY Times AP online 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 30, 1998 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all ~paces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 

000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon · Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Sal Noon · 6:00pm Sun Noon · Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 

ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: Beaded necklace with little stones, at the Mestrovic Memorial on Friday. 
Call Laura at x4414 

WANTED 

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT SNITE ART MUSEUM Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on museum objects and related hands· on activities. June 2nd to July 31st, 10-20 hours per week. Fine Arts major with exp. teaching and/or working with children preferred. (June 15 to July 31st, additional Work Study hours -if eligible-with National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours per week if desired, PLUS room and board included June 23 to Aug. 1) CALL education curator Sherrie Gauley, 631·4435, ASAP. App. deadline 4/06/98 
Students! Looking for flexible hours? In!' I Health & Nutrient Co. offering competitive wages to moti­vated individuals. 243·8009 
TAIWAN 
lnt'l Health Co. expanding into Taiwan in May. Looking for 5 peo­ple interested In this int'l expansion. 
271-0912 
Marketing/Promotions-Aggressive, dependable, enthusiastic students and/or non-students needed for Silverhawks promotional work at each home game. Excellent PIT opportunity for the right individuals. $10-$15 per hour. Call Mr. Becker at 1-800-334-4897. 
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY· MENT -Discover how to teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest & Krakow. Competitive wages +benefits. Seasonal/year-round positions. For more information: (517)336-0640 ext. K55841 
Babysitter needed for delightful 2-year-old boy this summer: M-F days, 20 or more hours per week, flexible hours. Transportation provided if needed. Experience/ references preferred. $6/hr. Call Jan 243·1 058. 

FOR RENT 
Now Renting 
Campus View 1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks from campus 272-1441 

Second round of leasing at College Park Condominiums, few units still available. Please contact office for appointment 272-0691. 
4 or 5 Bdrm furnished house, w/d, sand volleyball, 119 N. St. Peter, 233-9947 
NICE 3 bdr home 2 blks from cam­pus 273-1566 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
8 BEDROOM HOME 277-3097 
FOR RENT: 2 BR/2 BATH OAKHILL CONDO, AVAILABLE AUG. 1ST. CALL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE (219)272·2910. 
Nice 3-4 bdrm, bath & 1/2 house. Unfurnished, 2-car garage, gas 
heat, WID. 10-mo lease. 
$1,050/mo. Across from park, safe area. 289­5057. 
2 College Park Apts avail for sum­mer. 243-5668 
FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM­PUS.WASHER/DRYER. FALUSUMMER.272-6551 
1 ,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272·6551 
CLLGE PARK APT FOR SUMMER ·BEST OFFER 243-9309 

FOR SALE 
SPACIOUS 1BR CONDO walk to campus Call Dianne Killelea 
•

272-5444 
1984 Volkswagen Cabaret convert. 5-speed, 50,000 mi. Stored winters. $2,995. 674-5104 Bob Hull 
For Sale: Convenient condo living just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Recently remodeled including bath· room fixtures. 3 bedrooms, 2 full baths & access to clubhouse with pool & work out room. Call Trace Cole at 243-9565 for more informa­tion. 
89 PROBE GT, 112K, $3000 060. 4-4303 

TICKETS 
For Sale 
Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows Center Stage • $30 272-7233 
GRADUATION TICKETS WANTED 
Call Dennis @ 288-2423 or 800-915-6293 


PERSONAL 
look at all this junk food . Coming April 1 and 2 
SKALCOHOLIKS 
CD Release parties: April! -Alumni-Senior Club (21 and over) April 2 • Fieldhouse Mall 
Skalcoholiks' debut CD "look at all this junk food ..."will be available for$12 
Hey -did you know.. 
We're open early, late, and week­ends for your convenience! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a newborn with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800·484-7011 Pin #4523 
Happy, Happy 21st Birthday Jennifer Hildreth. Here's hoping you have a great day and an even better year. Love, Everyone. 
ummm ....... Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough ... . 
mmmm... unprocessed fish sticks .... . 
Only five more days 'til Friday, then CJF is done, rehearsal is done, "Scene" is done, the Friday paper is done, and I can have my life back. 
... assuming, of course, I finish my papers. 

And then there were seven ... 
"Hey, buddy, how late does the band play?" "Oh, about half a beat behind the drummer... ." 
How many jazz musicians does it take to change a light bulb? "Don't worry about the changes. We'll fake it." 
No, really, how many? None.. Jazz musicians can't afford light bulbs. 
How many sound engineers does it take to screw in a light bulb? "Light bulbs? You still use those?" 
What's the difference between Kenny G and an Uzi? The Uzi only repeats itself a thou· sand times. 
What would Mozart be doing if he were alive today? Scratching desperately at the lid of his coffin. 
When asked by the Pope what the Catholic Church could do for music, Igor Stavinsky is reported to have replied without hesitation: "Give us back castrati!" 
How can you tell which kid on the playground is the child of a trom­bonist? He doesn't know how to use the slide, and he can't swing. 
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly. 
What's the difference between trumpet players and government bonds? Bonds mature. 
What's the difference between a saxophone and a chainsaw? The grip. 
Why is the french horn a divine instrument? Because a man blows into it, but God only knows what comes out of it. 
Why God was never able to receive his tenure at any University. 
1.He had only one major publica­lion. 
2.11 
was in Hebrew. 

3.11 
had no references. 

4.11 
wasn't published in a refereed journal. 5.Some even doubt he wrote it him­self. 6.1t may be true that he created the world, but what has he done since then? 7.His cooperative efforts have been quite limited. 8.The scientific community has had a hard time replicating his results. 9.He never applied to the Ethics Board for permission to use human subjects. 10.When one experiment went awry he tried to cover it up by drowning the subjects. 11.When subjects didn't behave as predicted, he deleted them from the sample. 12.He rarely came to class, just told his students to read the Book. 13.Some say he had his son teach the class. 14.He expelled his first two stu­dents tor learning. 15.Although there were only ten requirements, most students failed his tests. 16.His office hours were infrequent and usually held on a mountaintop. 


Sarah Dylag: Watch out because I'm going to throw my top at you. 
Ain't nothin' like lickin' a potato. 
You know that's what happens when you're from Alabama. 
CJ -there better be toilet paper or you're in trouble. 
Oh God! I'm having a Bill Hart­attack! 
Joe Stark =Dr. Love 
In his dreams ... I 
1,1,1,1, I, I'm hooked on a feeling. 



= C.
. .. . 
a ­

Monday, March 30, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
The final game in the out slowly, especially when tinued. But it's the entire team's Georgetown series proved the they're playing on the week­Felker raised his average recent play that has everyone
Baseball 
Irish have turned a corner on ends only," said Brock, who again with a two-for-two effort at Frank Eck Stadium smiling. continued from page 16 the season. batted .643 in the Georgetown at the plate, adding three RBis. "The game of baseball is not 
Brock again blasted four series. Sophomore righty Brad Lidge a sprint; it's a long race," said Irish handed Georgetown ace hits, smacking his sixth and "We've had this string of had the scouts drooling with Mainieri following the team's Randy Erwin his first loss of seventh home runs of the year, eight games in six days and nine strikeouts over seven fifth consecutive win. "You just the year, as the freshman last­nearly equaling his career that's really helped just getting innings, and two earned runs can't get down on your team ed only one and two-thirds total of eight. your timing, and facing live on five hits. Lidge has 47 Ks in because they have a bad game, innings. "I think a lot of hitters start pitching everyday," Brock con-41 innings this season. or couple of games." 
The College of Arts and Letters is seeking nominations for the Father Sheedy Award. 
The Sheedy award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, is presented annually to a· member of the Arts and Letters faculty for excellence i"n teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations and should do so in writing: Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
by Thursday, April 9, 1998 



SLeedy J\~ard 
CELEBRATING.®® YEARS 
OF 


INDIA'S .INDEPENDENCE 
A symposium held at the University of Notre Dame Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium Tuesday, March 31, 1998 
2:00 Greetings-Nathan 0. Hatch Professor of History & Provost 
Why India Works: Some Unconventional Thoughts 
2:15 

Susanne H. Rudolph, William Benton Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science, University of Chicago 
Centers of Piety, Centers of Power: Hindu Temples in

3:15 

India and the United States 
Vasudha Narayanan, Professor of Religion, U. of Florida 
India: Reflections from my Travels
4:15 Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President Emeritus, University of Notre Dame 
Closing Remarks -Arvind Varma 
4:40 Arthur J. Schmitt Professor of Chemical Engineering 
Murphy selected for leadership conference 
Special to the Observer those that participate in the CHAMPS/Life Skills program. . Philip Murphy, a junior mem­Murphy, a three-year member 
ber of the.Notre Dame men's of the Irish men's soccer team, soccer team, has been selected was selected from more than to participate in the second 850 nominations. A Dean's List annual NCAA 
student enrolled in the College of Foundation Business Administration, he has Leadership been named a co-captain for the Conference, upcoming 1998 campaign. presented by The 1998 NCAA Foundation Entergy Leadership Conference will focus Corporation, on topics recommended by last which will be year's participants, as well as byheld May 25-recommendations of the 28 at Disney's Murphy Divisions I, II and III NCAA Coronado Student-Athlete AdvisorySprings Resort in Lake Buena, Committees. Some of these topics Florida. include coaching roles in inter­
This forum will provide the collegiate athletics and the per­opportunity for NCAA student­ception and portrayal of student­athletes to discuss and explore athletes related to their sports, critical issues facing their peers campuses and communities. around the country, to enhance This year's list of conference their leadership skills, and to speakers includes: Robin promote better communication Roberts, anchor and sports com­
among student-athletes, coach­mentator for ABC and ESPN; 
es, administrators, faculty and Tom Curley, publisher of USA communities. Today; Cedric Dempsey, execu­· More than 370 student-ath­tive director of the NCAA; and letes will attend the 1998 NCAA Quinn Buckner, ESPN sportsFoundation Leadership commentator/color analyst and Conference. Student-athletes member of the 1976 Indiana were nominated from NCAA men's national championshipmember institutions, including basketball team. 
*The Most Mfordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year Summer Rentals June~August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
Notre Dame Security Police Job Openings, 1998-1999 Year 
We are anticipating several openings in our SafeWalk Program for next year, including 15 SafeWalkers as well as seven Shift Captains. SafeWalk provides informal escorts for students, seven days a week, from 8 p.m. through 2:30a.m. 
SafeWalk is an excellent way to enjoy the balmy fresh air and scenic beauty of campus, while getting exercise and making new friends. SafeWalk shifts range from three to six hours. SafeWalkers will also perform other crime prevention functions while making their campus rounds. 
Persons wishing to be considered for one of these positions should send a letter of interest to Cappy Gagnon (e-mail: russell.t.gagnon.2®nd.edu). The letter should describe what strengths and experience the applicant would bring to the program and how the applicant would envision performing the task. All letters must be received by April 6. 
Shift Captain is a new leadership position, responsible for the supervision of the SafeWalkers and liason with the Coordinator of the Student Employees. Shift Captain appli­cants who have not previously served as SafeWalkers will be required to observe current SafeWalk teams during April. 

Monday, March 30, 1998

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS 
..... • SOFTBAll 

Softball splits against Rutgers in conference opener 
By BILL HART 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Last S('ason. Notre Dame's softball tParn had an outstanding op(~ning Big East series, sweep­ing conference rival Seton llall 

to begin their run for the South Division title. 
Entering anotlwr con­fen~nre sea­son this week­
end. the Irish Nichols were looking 
to repeat their memorable sue­cess against the Scarlet Knights. The team will probably want to forget their last roadtrip, howev­er. as they went 1-2 over at 
Hutgers this weekfmd. 
On Saturday. the Scarlet Knights got the ball rolling early, scoring two runs each in the first two innings, taking a quick 4-0 lead. Aft(~r a lull in the hit­ting for both u~ams, the Irish scored five unanswered runs in the last two innings to give tlwm the 5-4 victory. Sarah Mathison led oiT tlw sixth with a single and scornd later on a single by Tara King. 
In tlw seventh. senior Jenn 

Giampaolo doubled to start off 
the conwback and later scon~d 
oil' of two singles by Amy Laboe 
and Melanie AlkinL Mathison 
then singled again, followed by a 
Hutgers error which allowed 
l.abon to sror(~. A hit by King 
drove in another run. and junior 
Kris McCleary completed the 
rally by driving in Mathison to scorn the winning run. 
Senior Kelly Nichols pitched the seventh inning to record her 20th career save and become the all-time NCAA career saves leader. Nichols allowed two hits to open the seventh before a strikeout, fly ball and a ground ball in the next three Hutgers at­bats ended the game. 
The previous record of 19 was held by Cal Poly Pomona's Lori Thompson from 1987-89. Jennifer Sharron improved her record to 5-4, while the Knights' Juliette Brooks took the loss. 
Hutgers rebounded in the sec­ond game, scoring during every inning but the first to take a 9-2 win and split the first day's activities. The Scarlet Knights scored in every inning but the first. The Irish kept up early in the game, scoring one run apiece in the second and third innings, but were unable to rally twice in one day. McCleary and freshman Lizzy Lemire each had an HBI, and Giampaolo and McCleary scored for the Irish. 
Hutgers pitcher Lisa Bosso 
improved her record to 2-0 on 
the season. while Alkire received 
her lirst loss of the season. The 
defeat ended a three-game win­
ning streak for the Irish. · 
On Sunday. the two teams 
completed their three-game 
series with a perfect game. 
UnfortunatPly, the Irish were on 
tho losing side. as they fell 5-0. 
The Knights scored two runs in 
tho first and throe in the second 
ofl' Sharron, who fell to S-5 with 
the loss. 

With the weekend losses, the 
Irish fall to 12-16 on thn season. 

Moreau Center­Little Theatre Thursday-Saturday, 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
Mf~ 
' 

c~THEARTS 
~NOTR2 DAilE, IN 

----~. 

TASKFORCE 
The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking three members to join the Appalachia Task Force for the 1998­99 school year. This is a two semester commitment The task force consists of of eight undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and maintaining the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experimental learning as a means to enhance higher education; therefore, we are in need of an interested, enthusiastic, and committed person to join us. 
If you have participated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applying to the Appalachia Task Force. 
APPLICATIONS: Now available in the CSC Applications are due Wed, April 1, 1998 
for further information: 
Ryan Murphy 4-1980 or Sean Frey 4-4911 Rachel Tomas-Morgan, 282-2209 

while the Knights improve to 4-2 games against Western in Big East play and 9-5 overall. Michigan tomorrow at 3 p.m., Notre Dame will finish up their before heading home for anoth­eastern road trip with two er doubleh!~ader against 
Valparaiso at Ivy Fiold. Tho clash between the Irish and the Crusaders is set for Thursday at 6:30p.m. 



Tuesday, March 31, 1998 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 

Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
Monday, March 30, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

M. Lax 
continued from page 16 
American Todd Rassas. "Starting with us [the defense] we had a lack of good ball clearing." 
"When we got the ball in the zone, we didn't control it well enough to finish the play," Dusseau said. As a result, the Irish's leading scorer, freshman attacker Dave Ulrich, who aver­aged more than four goals a game, was held scoreless, also another first on the season. 
Senior All-American Jimmy Keenan finished the scoring in the first with his first of two goals on the day. 
Notre Dame's lack of oppor­tunities held them scoreless in the second quarter, as the Statesmen netted another goal, giving them a 5-2 halftime lead. They continued to build on the lead in the third with goals from the sticks of All-American senior Nathan Roost, who scored a game-high four goals, and sophomore Jared Bebee, both attackmen. Ben Savage's goal at the 6:52 mark was answered by Schwanke's third of the day to end the third quarter with an 8-3 score. 
Roost's goal to start the fourth gave Hobart their biggest lead of the day, 9-3. The Irish, responded with a pair by midfielder Dan Butler and attacker Stedman Oakey nine 
Recycle me. Please. 

seconds apart. But the team came no closer, as Hobart junior Alex Mitchell and Roost returned the score to a six-goal Statesmen advantage. 
Despite a strong effort by All­American goalie Alex Cade, whose 20 saves are a season high, the Irish left Hobart with­out a win, lowering the team to a .500 record. 
The day of firsts for the Irish was also due to a lack of con­centration on the fundamen­tals, something the team will need to work on if they wish to return to the winning track. 
"Everything starts off with the little things," said Butler. "If you don't have that in control, you've beat yourself, and that's what we did Saturday." 
•


Notre Dame stands at lOth in Directors' Cup 
Special to the Observer 1997-98 NCAA titles in women's volleyball, men's fhe University of Notre cross country and women's 
Dame stands lOth in the latest swimming, while North standings featuring most win­Carolina (370 points) is sec­ter sports championships in ond after winning the NCAA the Sears Directors' Cup all­women's soccer and field sports competition. hockey titles. 
During the winter season The current standingsthe Irish produced a runnerup include results from NCAA fall finish in men's and women's competition in women's vol­fencing (a combined champi­leyball, men's water polo,onship held last weekend at field hockey, I-A and 1-AA Saint Mary's College). a 23rd football, men's and women's place finish in women's swim­cross country and women's ming, and a 60th place finish soccer. The winter results to in men's indoor track, giving date include fencing, rifle, ski­Notre Dame 220 points. ing, women's swimming,
During the fall season the women's track and field, Irish women's soccer team men's track and field and reached the national semifi­men's wrestling.nals, the men's cross country In the four previous years in team finished 12th at the which the Sears Directors' 
NCAA championship and the Cup competition has been volleyball team reached the held, Notre Dame has finished NCAA regional semifinals. 11th in 1993-94, 30th in Stanford (560 points) leads 1994-95, 11th in 1995-96 and the competition, thanks to 14th in 1996-97. 

:New (}3eginnings 
}lfitness cfass designed especia[[y for incfividuafs new to group e.zyrcise or wfio fiave 6een sedentaryfor 
1\f':t\IVI ..... "' .i-1 If'.i"i some time.
'''" \" \'•~

~~'$ -strength -j[exj6iUty 'ciG~$.~ --[o impact clioreograpliy !i Tue~day~/Thur~day~ 
3/31-5/14 12:15-12:45 
~15 R~RC Regi~ter @ Rec~port~ today! 



CITY STAFFING 
Temporary and Permanent Placemellf 
312-346-3400 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 630, Ch IL 60602 

page 14 

Monday, March 30, 1998 
• SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 





Saint Mary's dominates Adrian's weak points 

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1998 7 PM, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM !=. 
FEATURING: 
Coach David Poulin  Prof. Margot O'Brien  Prof. Bonnie Fremgen  Fr. Richard Warner  
Coach Debra Brown  Prof. Micheal Chetcuti  Prof. Carolyn Woo  Fr. Theodore Hesburgh  
Coach Bob Davie  Prof. Patricia O'Hara  Prof. Edward Hums  Fr. Timothy Scully  
Mr. William Kirk  Prof. Ramzi Bualuan  Prof. Jennifer Warlick  Fr. William Seetch  
Mr. Rex Rakow  Prof. Richard Taylor  Prof. John Cavadini  Fr. Wilson Miscamble  
Prof. John Thurin  Prof. Thomas Werge  Prof. Lawrence Cunningham  Sr. Patricia Riley  
Prof. Alex Himonas  Fr. William Beauchamp  

Participate in a live auction to purchase a meal with 
your favorite ND Friends *can bid for a meal with professors, administrators, and other big ND names 
By VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Spons Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team experienced more difficulty Saturday dealing with the windy afternoon conditions than with Adrian's competition, shutting them out 9-0. · 
The Belles (4-4) once again dominated the courts. display­ing veteran skills uncharaeter­istic of a young team. 
Tlw No. I doubles team of sophomore eo-captain Katie Vales and junior eo-captain Betsy Gemmer slammed over­head-after-overhead in response to the lobs made by Adrian opponents Lori Dusel and Christy Coli, who couldn't handle the strong serves of Vales and Gemmer.· 
Vales and Gemmer took the match in two sets with scores of 6-2, 6-0. 
"Adrian really wasn't much competition," said Vales, "but the wind definitely made it hard. [Adrianl would throw up a lob and the wind would just take it. This match was a good warm up for our team to get things moving for the rest of the season." 
The second doubles team of Becky Kremer and Mary Woodka stepped on the eourt ready for action, and proceeded to defeat Linda llachted and Stephanie Vanlleest of Adrian, 6-1,6-3. 
Woodka and Kremer found 

the corners of the court with 
ease and showed no mercy with 
their net play, aggression and 
teamwork. 

The third doubles team, sophomores Krista Eastburn and Leslie Ortiz, were ready for every shot dished out by oppo­nents Blonde and Nachteqall of Adrian. Eastburn and Ortiz volleyed and served it up to win their match 6-1, 6-3. 
"Everyone was determined to win and the determination paid off," Ortiz said. "Hopefully we'll be able to continue in the same manner." 
Freshman Lori Schulte played the mose geuling match of the say at No. 7 singles. Schulte came out full force in her first set, taking it 6-0. The tables quickly turned in the second set as Schulte fell short 5-7. Facing a third set, Schulte didn't allow fatigue and the hot sun to inter­fere with her determination to win. Schulte pulled her game together and won the set 6-2, taking the match. 
The singles players let the doubles teams' success over­flow into their individual matches against Adrian. No. 1 singles player Katie Vales won 6-0, 6~ 1, and Betsy Gemmer, holding the No. 2 singles spot, won 6-1, 6-0. 
"Wind was a definite hin­drance," said Gemmer. "Overall, I think the team's good communication and adap­tation to the wind is what got us a win. I think our team is ing, but we just have to work No. 6 singles, defeating oppo­really coming together. We've together as a team." nent Karen Fuller 6-1, 6-0. improved a lot and I think Becky Kremer and Mary Saint Mary's tennis coach we're going to surprise a lot of Woodka, at third and fourth Robin Hrycko cheered on her people." singles played solid sets against team throughout the match. 
Looking ahead to Thursday's Adrian with scores of 6-1, 6-4 "It's nice to see them doing so 
match at Hope College, at third singles and 6-0, 6-2 at well," said llyrcko. "We're a Gemmer said, "We really need fourth singles. Sophomore young team and the girls have to stay focused this week at Leslie Ortiz at No. 5 singles, improved tremendously. The practice to prepare for Hope. shut out Adrian opponent, Kelly wind was crazy today but the Hope will have a lot of answers Johncox, 6-0, 6-0 and Krista girls are handling it really to our shots. It'll be challeng-Eastburn showed no mercy at well." 
LASS of 1998 
ENIOR FELLOW AWAR 


prof or faculty member who has 
made a contribution to our class 
~®~O~l10®~S3 ~®W lBrnO~~ £~~rnlPITrn® 
DUE FRIDAY APRIL lrd 
mail: class.of.1998@nd.edu Campus Mail: 213 LaF 

Monday, March 30, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN · YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Narrow 53 Fish that swims waterway: Abbr. upright
1 Preferred group 26 Cosmetician 58 End of the lyric of invitees Lauder 61 One of the6 Normandy 30 "I smell-!" O'Neills
campaign town, 1944 3t.Capitol topper 
62 Canal to Buffalo 63 Meal from the 
32 Explain once

10 Speaker's garden
more 64 Study, as text platform 

34 Deposited 65 "Lights out"14 New Zealand 

native 37 Part 2 of the lyric music 15 Watered-down 40 Light brown 
&&Arduous 16 Teen woe 
41 93, e.g., at the 
journeys 
pump

17 Start of an old romantic song 
42 Curved molding lyric 43 Wine sediment 
DOWN 20 Take up again, 44 Dictatorial 1 Mideast leader as a claim 450ne-time 2 Not on time 21 First month of 48 Netanyahu's 3 Where Ames is the aiio land: Abbr. 4 Spanish ladies: 22 Vase 49 Before: Prefix 
Abbr. 5 Kleenex 23 Midwest clock 51 Diamond 6 Stem's opposite

setting: Abbr. measure 7 "Anything but -!" a Actress' Ullmann 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Quarter of four 10 Start of a new 
day 11 Pains 12 Motionless 13 "Sf, sf!" man 
-::+o:++:-1 18 Any ship g.;..+.:::.+:-=-+=-+=-1 19 Tiny sting 7'+=+::+.=::+:::++:-EB 23 Uncle of Antigone ~~~~ 24 Unguentine, e.g. 
26 Cut and paste -7+:::+:£-F.-i 27 Divan 4=+-:...j.:,:+=-l 28 Fed. tax agents 
-=+±~+=+-=-< 29 Wriggly fish -=+=+:±:-! 30 Book of maps .:::...j.'-4,.,.+:,-i 32 Reduces to tiny 
bits 50 Gridiron cheer 56 Clean, as 52 "Diary of­dentures 


Housewife" 57 Pass receivers 53 Barber's motion 59 Tennis judge's 54 Bridge expert position 
Sharif 60 Lyricist 55 Part to play Gershwin 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
33 "Come in!" 34 Sty inhabitants 35 Colorado 
Indians 36 Unnamed ones 38 Underage 
heartbreaker 39 Go a-courting 44 Directive 45 Hollywood type 46 Nevada resort 47 Sports spot 49"0h,for­
sake!" 
Aries: This a construc­
tive time for finances and possessions. Your hard work begins to bear fruit. -It is easy to focus when a positive outcome is so 
very obvious. 
Taurus: The Taurus 
Moon beckons you toward 
drastic and indulgent 
behavior. This is one of 
those times when you are 
free to be excessive. The 
consequences of your 
actions are a million miles 
away. 
Gemini: Your normally 
upbeat mood may be visit­
ed by a slow sadness. 
Whether set off by a cur­
rent issue or an unre­
solved memory, you are 
unusually pensive. Be 
patient with yourself and 
maybe you will learn 
something. 
. Cancer: Social activities 
are· suddenly attractive to 
you. Be yourself in a 
group of friends or friend­
ly strangers. Your mind is 
filled with wonderful 
things that others are only 
too happy to discuss with 
you. 
Leo: You radiate mas­
sive charm when you are 
competent in your work. 
Drop the facade and be 
yourself without fear of 
ridicule. Today's plan has 
more to do with teamwork 
than with ego. 
Virgo: Decisions made 
today move you efficiently 
onward to the next step. 
The Taurus Moon 
enhances your practical 
nature. A social event 
leaves you feeling proud 
of yourself in a comfort­
able way. 

Libra: Your challenge is to determine which of your business associates can be trusted. Today's stakes may not be high, but you would do well to test the system for flaws. Appearances can be deceiving. 
Scorpio: Use your con­siderable power of rea­soning to find your way through a time of chaos. You are the moment of calm in the eye of a storm. Stay in control of yourself to avoid getting mixed up in someone else's mess. 
Sagittarius: It may be easy to speJik in generali­ties, but they will only cloud the issue. This is no time to gloss over the details. Your luck will hold out if you remain responsible in other areas of your life . 
Capricorn: This is your day to shine in a profes­sional situation. Your tire­less efforts are a source of awe and envy. The Taurus Moon helps you turn even the dirtiest job into some­thing glamorous. 
Aquarius: Be patient 
with people you'd rather 
not be seeing. A surprise 
visit doesn't have to be 
unpleasant or an inconve­
nience. You may politely 
refuse an invitation to join 
an excessive activity. 
Pisces: Art proves to be 

a good complement for 
language today, if not an 
outright substitute. Your 
imagination gives you the 
outlet for which you have 
so desperately searched. 
Strange and wonderful 
things may happen. 




The Observer wants YOU. 
Call1~5323. 
• 

The Observer  Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on 'people and  0  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community.  0  Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address _______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City--------State _____ Zip_______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
• 






SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, March 30, 1998 
• BASEBAll 

By ALLISON KRILLA In Saturday's doubleheader against Associate Sports Editor Georgetown, the Irish fell behind early, but clawed back for a 7-6 win . 
It was spring cleaning time at Frank .Junior Allen Greene lifted his third Eck Stadium this weekend as the Notre dinger of the year, a two-out blast over Dame baseball tPam disposed of Indiana the center field fence, to knot the score Tech I !i-3 on Friday and posted a three­at five apiece in the fourth. Jeff Perconte ganw sweep" of Big East rival plated a run with a two-out double in Georgotown on Saturday and Sunday. the fifth, and Brock drove in the winning 
"I told the guys right from the get-go run in the sixth with a double beyond that once we get a chance to start play­the reach of Georgetown center fielder ing a lot of games in a row," said head Sean Mignogna. Brock, Wagner, Ust, coach Paul Mainieri, "they're going to Perconte and Todd Frye each had two start seeing the ball better in the bat­hits for the Irish. ter's box; their instincts are going to be Junior righty Alex Shilliday emerged
• better; their reactions are going to be from a rocky start to earn the complete better. That's just the nature of the game victory, allowing five earned runs sport of baseball. you have to play the on eight hits while fanning seven. game to be at your best." "Even though he struggled, [Shilliday's With wins of 7-6, 19-7 and 10-2 in its outing) was the highlight of the weekend opening conference series, the team was for me," said Mainieri. "So many times at its best. scoring 51 runs on 6 7 hits when a kid struggles like that in the over four games. beginning, you see him kind of give up; On Friday, the Irish avenged a five­Shilliday didn't give up. He kept his run loss to Indiana Tech behind the team in the game." heavy hitting of .Jeff Wagner. Brant Ust Notre Dame exploded in the nightcap and a surging Jeff Felker. with four-hit performances by Felker Arter taking a 2-0 lead in the third, and Ust, and three-hit performances by Notre Dame pulled farther ahead with a Greene, Brock, Mike Knecht and Dan three-run third highlighted by Felker's Leatherman. first homer of the year and Ust's third Brock, Wagner, Felker and Ust went blast in as many games, just two batters yard for the Irish. Wagner and Ust's later. .1 ..1. Brock continued his torrid back-to-hack homers in the six-run play at the plate, going 4-for-4 with two Notre Dame sixth were each player's doubles. two HBI and three runs. team-leading seventh of the year, while Pitcher .John Corbin made his first Felker's poke marked his second in as career start just two days before, turn­many days. ing in six strong innings despite making .Junior lefty Chris McKeown picked up his first appearance in over a year. the win after relieving starter Tim Corbin held the Warriors to three runs Kalita with two outs in the fifth. The The Observer/John Daily on five hits with one walk and two Notre Dame's baseball team had an outstanding weekend, defeating Indiana Tech on 
strikeouts. see BASEBALL I page 11 Friday and sweeping Georgetown 3-0 on Saturday and Sunday. 
• MEN's lAcRossE 


Track races towards NCAAs
Irish lose third 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN the third collegiate runner to The. Irish were led on the Sports Writer finish. This was her first ever women's side by their high

straight to Statesmen 
10,000-meter race. JUmpers and hurdlers. In the opening weekend of the "Generally, that time will get Sophomore Jennifer EngelhardtBy ANTHONY BIANCO by freshmen attackman Jason 
outdoor track and field season, in the meet [NCAAsl." said took seeoi1d among collegians in 
Sports Writer Ouellet and senior midfielder 
several distance runners in the women's distance coach Tim the high jump with her perfor­
Hich Schwanke. After junior 
Stanford Invitational met provi­Connelly. "That was the first mance of 5'7", and junior tnam­
This weekend's contest midfielder Stephen Taylor 
s io nal NCAA 
,-----:-:-------. 10,000 that she's ever run in mate Kelle Saxon's jump of 5'5" 
against Hobart brou t the gave the Irish their first, 
qua I i fyi n g her life. I think that with experi­was good for fifth place. 
Irish a cou­llobart continued its domina­
times. Errol ence, she'll run even better." Junior Nadia Schmiedt scored 
pl11 of firsts tion, scoring two with 6:13 
Williams led Hexing, a senior all-American in multiple events for the team.
that the left in ttie first quarter. 
the field at who made it to the finals of the She ran 14:35 in tho 100-meter 
tnam could "They weren't anything 
the Alabama NCAA Championships in the hurdles to placn third, and 
most likely special from the start," said 
Relays, but 10,000 meter run last year. ran placed ninth in the 400-nwtcr
do without. junior attacker Chris 
athletes par­a personal best time of 29:10 in hurdles with a time of 1 :00.1JR.
Tlw 11-7 Dusseau. "We just weren't 
ticipating in the event. Arce will probably The majority of the team took
loss against rnady, and they took advan­
the Purdue Klemmer need to improve upon his time part in the Purdue Open in West 
t h e tage of it." 

Open were of 29:47 to make it to nationals. Lafayette. On the men's side,
Statnsmen The opportunities for 
slowed by extremely windy con­Notre Dame athletes showed junior Mike Brown's 16'2 :~/4"
marknd Dusseau and the Irish attack­
ditions. strong performances at the pole vault gave him the victory.
thnir lirst win against Notrn men did not materialize on 
Head Notre Dame track and Alabama Relays in Tuscaloosa, Tim Kober took second in the
Damn in thnir six meetings, Saturday. The focus for the 
field coach Joe Piane accompa­Ala. Williams, an indoor all­800-meter run in 1:56.71. In the
and is tlw first time Hobart Irish against Hobart was the 
nied some of the top distance American last month, beat all 3,000-meter run, the Irish were
has jumpnd out to :~-0 reeord midfield. 

runners to the Stanford other collegiate runners with a led by Ryan Blaney's third-place 
to start tlw season since they "The midfield is going to be 
Invitational in Palo Alto, Calif., time of 14.01 in the 110-meter time of 9:34.2. Gabe Seaman's
nntnrml Division I play. on the ball a lot." said head 
but had not returned to campus hurdles, Senior Kevin Reher time of 55.25 in the 400-meter
Pnrhaps thn biggest and coach Kevin Corrigan before 
last night. The Irish were· led by took third in the event. hurdles was good enough for 
hard1~st l'irst to swallow for the contest. 

NCAA provisional qualifying Other top finishes on the third place. 
the Irish is Saturday's loss The Irish's lack of offensive 
performances by sophomore men's side came in the 200-For the women, the top finish­
plaens thnm at 3-3 on the opportunities was due in 
Alison Klemmer, senior Jason meter dash, with Chris Cochran ers were Cara Motter's fourth 
snason; this is th1~ first time large part to a lackluster 
Hexing and junior Antonio Arce. taking third in 21.5 9 and place in the 800-meter run, and 
sine1~ 1992 that they have lost effort in clearing the ball 
Klemmer, who did not com­Marshaun West placing eighth. Erin Luby's fifth place in the
thr<HJ straight. uplield. 

pete in track last year due to an Mike Conway ran to sixth place 1,500-meter run.
Hobart eamn out on the "The midfield was a big 
injury, ran 35:01 in the 10,000 in the 1,500 meter run in "I thought we had some really
board first. cranking two part," said defensive All-
meters, breaking the school 3:51.85 and Phil Mishka's 800-good performances," said
goals in thn first two minutes 

record by 16 seconds. She meter time of 1:53.56 was good Connelly. "Our kids raced really
see M. LAX I page 13 
placed fourth overall, and was for sixth among collegians. well." 



ar Wesrern Michigan, 

vs. Ohio Srare, 

• Softball splits in conference play 
Tomorrow, 3 p.m. 
Wednesday, 3 p.m. 

vs. Illinois-Chicago, 
Sofrball ar Hope College, 
see page 12 

Tomorrow, 5:05p.m. 
Wednesday, 3 p.m. 

• SMC Tennis wins again 
Men's Golf ar Buder 
Tennis ar Hope College, 

Spring lnvirarional, 
Wednesday, 3 p.m. 
see page 14 
Today, All Day 






