
Tuesday, February 10, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 88 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• ELECTION '98 
Cesaro/Selak, Williams/Reising advance to run-off 
By DAVID FREDDOSO Senior Staff Writer 
The tickets led by Peter Cesaro and Brandon Williams will face off Thursday in the run-off election for student body president, the student government elec­tion committee announced last night. 
The Cesaro/Selak ticket finished far ahead with almost 33 percent of the vote, while the Brandon Williams/Julie Reising came in second with more than 17 per­cent. These two tickets will go head to head on Thursday, since student govern­ment bylaws dictate that a ticket must have at least 50 percent of the vote to win. 
Despite a seemingly comfortable lead, Cesaro seemed well aware that he still had to win over many voters in order to obtain the needed 50 percent. 
"We're going to keep working," he said. "The race is just beginning." 
"We are both very excited, and we're looking forward to serving the student body of Notre Dame," added Andrea Selak, Cesaro's running mate. "We've been researching and brainstorming, and we love getting input from all the stu­dfmts." 
Williams and Reising, meanwhile, remained similarly optimistic. 
"I feel a sense of relief just knowing [the results]," said Williams, "but I also sense a great opportunity. Hopefully, we'll get elected and get a chance to do something good for the students. We're definitely excited." 
Williams and Reising have had to cope with unexpected circumstances thus far 

• BLACK HISTORY MONTH 

Reising 
Some votes were invalid or write-ins. Based on 55.57% voter turnout 
Run..off Ticket 
PRESIDENT 


Selak 

Student officer hopefuls Cesaro/Selak captured approximately 33 percent of the vote. Williams/Reising garnered approximate­ly 17.5 percent. A run-off election between the two tickets will be held this Thursday. 
in the race. While all of the candidates were subject to the extraordinarily short period of time allowed for campaigning this year -only five days -this ticket faced the challenge of both personal and family illness during the campaign period. 
Williams became sick over the weekend, and it happened that at the same time Reising's grandfather became ill and she took personal time to visit her family. These illnesses took an entire day out of their campaign. 

It wasn't easy to make up for this, Reising said, but their focused effort paid off. "On Sunday, we tried to do the best we could," Reising said. 
see ELECTIONS I page 4 

Director promotes race reflection 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
"It's visual poetry, brother," said Benjamin Bratt, star of NBC's crime and punishment drama "Law & Order," to audi­ence members following the 
screening of 11-:l=l::W~,~ •11 his brother !'Pier's first • "Bransdls· 
motion pic-cuss film's turn, "Follow goals" Me Home," pA 
SaturdayL......-~----' 
night in the I lesburgh library auditorium. 
Peter Bratt, who wrote the script for the movie in addition to directing it, shared with the audience his desire to create a contemporary urban drama which would help motivate the audience to discuss social issues that touched campus and national life. 
Younger brother Benjamin expressed the same desire to the audience. 
"Our number one hope is that the film sparks the audience to dialogue," he said. "Essentially, we want everyone to come out of the theater thinking about the issues we don't normally look at intensely." 
"Follow Me Home" is the story of four East Los Angeles artists of different races who set off on a cross country trip to Washington, D.C., where they ultimately plan to paint a large mural on the White House. 

Photo Courtesy of Victor Scott 

Alfre Woodard, right, who plays Evey in Peter Bratt's "Follow Me Home," receives the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry's award for out­standing recognition in film from Chicago Sun Times critic Roger Ebert. 
Benjamin Bratt plays the role of Abel, one of the four artists. 
The movie explores the inter­actions between the characters who all have a hidden story. The movie takes the men along the highways and back roads of middle America. 
"This is an allegory tale. Just the idea of painting the White House, this structure we hold so high, is a way for these char­acters to be included," the director said. 
Peter Bratt explained that each character must overcome a "soul-wound," or internalized oppression. The film serves to heal today's problems by remaining true to traditional 
teachings and respect for the 
past, Bratt claimed. 
"Every character has an aspect of that soul-wound, and each character gets wrapped up in their own thoughts," the director explained. 
"Follow Me Home" has yet to be picked up by a major distrib­ution company, despite being one of 18 films chosen to be viewed at the 1996 Sundance Film Festival. Sundance is the largest independent film festi­val in the world, and chose Bratt's film from over 1,500 possible candidates. 
It was not until Henri Norris, a Chicago lawyer, mortgaged her home to begin New Millenia 
see MOVIE 1page 4 


_j 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Zahtn Sucks 

Well, we've heard it so Spencer Stefko much it must be true. 
Assistant Viewpoint 

Like black quarterbacks 
Editor 

not having "what it 
takes" and the 
Constitution granting the right to kill babies, 
it must be true. 
So as a public service to all readers con­
cerned about the future of Notre Dame as 
long as Zahm is allowed to stand, I figure I'll 
break down the ways Zahm sucks so you can 
take this list straight to Monk and have Ted 
Kaczynski installed as Zahm's paperboy. 
Ask mostly anyone and you'll get a list of 
grievances rivaling the Declaration of 
Independence. 
"There must be some reason," you say. "I 
mean, why else would these idiots stand in 
front of their dorm, in sub-freezing tempera­
tures, a few without shirts for God's sake, 
and get pelted with snowballs each year, out­
numbered at least four or five to one? Or run 
around in the rain dressed like William 
Wallaee and sing Zahm spirituals before the 
first pep rally eaeh year? What makes them 
drive golf carts through innocent Alumni's 
Wake?" 
"How about running through LaFortune 
every first study week dressed like William 
Wallace, sans kilt? Why don't they let guys 
from other dorms into their parties? And 
why do they sit together at dinner every 
night, up in that God-forsaken section of 
theirs?" 
Before I can even get the word "traditi..." 
out of my mouth, you rudely interrupt. 
"But that's all in the past," you say. 
"You're starting to sound like a history 
major. How about something more real and 
immediate? That hellhole is the suckiest 
dorm on campus, and we want to know why." 
OK. Early in the year, a great tragedy 
befell a freshman. A mass was offered for 
this tragedy, and the whole dorm, on a 
Monday night, showed up. People who did 
not know this student and people who aren't 
Catholic showed up for mass en masse. The 
chapel literally overflowed, and no one pre­
sent could help but feel that in times of need 
they arc not alone. 
My uncle is terminally ill and will die soon. 
After rallying around the family for awhile, it 
will be time for me to get back to the "real 
world." To know one will be supported in 
this manner, or in the manner the gentlemen 
of Knott recently displayed, is a good, safe, 
secure feeling. 
"Well, that doesn't seem to suck much at 
all," you say. "But aren't they a crude, igno­
rant, uncouth, savage, rude, coarse, uncivi­
lized people? Don't they just drink, break 
stun·. and eat babies? I hear they don't even 
have opposing thumbs." 
No. that was the early Christians who were 
accused of eating babies. And how do you 
hold beer without opposable thumbs? But as 
for the other allegations, the answer is, "No." 
I live in Zahm, yet when I went on heart med­
ication to train for Bengal Bouts and couldn't 
drink, you would no doubt be surprised that 
all were behind me. I never once heard a 
comment about being a pansy. 
"Well, that's cool, I guess, but, hey, Zahm 
sueks." 
My friend, if what I just described "sucks," I 
am sure glad that Zahm sucks. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF 
News Accent Anne Hosinski Andrea Jordan Anne Marie Mattingly Joel Cummins Colleen McCarthy Graphics Sports Melissa Weber 
Betsy Baker Production Viewpoint Kathleen Lopez Eddie Llull Andrea Jordan 
Tuesday, February 10, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Columbia student faces charges for gambling involvement 
NEW YORK tigation until Friday morning, when 
A Columbia College junior was they received a press release from the among 16 people in New York and on DA's office. Long Island who were arrested Della Pietra is alleged to have acted Thursday for their alleged involve­as a runner for approximately 25 ment in an illegal gambling ring that Columbia students, collecting 40 to 50 investigators say netted 10 million dollar bets on college and profession­dollars a year. al sporting events, the District 
Joseph Della Pietra, a member of Attorney reported in a press release the Zeta Beta Tau (ZBT) fraternity, distributed Friday. was arrested outside the fraternity Bettors participating in the gam­house after a five-month investigation bling ring came primarily from the by the New York Police Department tri-state area. Others were from San 
and the Queens District Attorney's Queens District Attorney Richard A. Francisco, Boston, Las· Vegas, office indicated that he was acting as Brown began investigating the gam­Nevada, Arlington, Va, Charlotte. 
a runner for the ring. bling ring last October. Brown started N.C., and Harrisburg, Pa., Brown's looking into Della Pietra's involve­
The arrest has sent shock waves office reported. through the university community, ment when he discovered records of Della Pietra's ZBT fraternity broth­leaving administrators surprised and phone calls Della Pietra made to ers assembled last week and agreed Della Pietra's fraternity brothers other alleged members of the gam­not to discuss Della Pietra's case with scrambling to evade the scrutiny of bling ring. the media, a member of ZBT said. 
the press. According to Columbia College Dean No member of the fraternity would The Queens-based ring took bets of Students Roger Lehecka, University comment on the allegations against from gamblers across the U.S., and Della Piatra. 
officials were not aware of the inves­

• GEORGIA TECH 

Changes suggested for school song 
ATLANTA, Ga. 
The Diversity Task Force recommended that changes be made to "The Ramblin' Wreck," the school song of Georgia Tech. The recommendation is contained in the task force's report to the Diversity Forum. According to Stephanie Ray, associate dean of students, director of diversity issues, and chair of the diversity task force, the 19 members of the task force agreed that the school song should be changed. "I think the task force felt that the song was not reflective of Georgia Tech in current times," Ray explained. While con­cerned with the allusions to alcohol in the song, the primary issue for the task force was the way the song portrays women. "Women have been at Tech for 45 years and so the task force wanted to imply that [a woman] can be a hell of an engineer too," Ray said. Dean Gail DiSabatino echoed the concerns of the task force. "(The school song] portrays women and men in stereotypical ways," DiSabatino explained. 
• DARTMOUTH COllEGE Dean looks into student's assault claim 
HANOVER, N.H. 
Dean of the college Lee Pelton called Thursday for a panel to investigate sophomore Brian de Moya's allega­tions that he was threatened and mistreated by Safety and Security officers Saturday night. De Moya said he was later assaulted by a Hanover Policeman called to the scene by the safety and security officers. He told The Dartmouth Wednesday he had a bruise on his upper right eye socket from being thrown into a concrete wall by the police officer, as well as cuts and other bruises. In a letter Pelton published in The Dartmouth today, Pelton said he requested that senior associate dean of the college Dan Nelson appoint a panel from the college community to investigate the allegations "in order to determine what actually occurred." Nelson appointed Ozzie Harris, associ­ate director of affirmative action and equal opportunity, to chair the panel. 
• UNIVERSITY OF flORIDA 
Student takes appeal to courts 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

University of Florida graduate student Carlos Cruz was arrested and charged in November with stalking his ex-girlfriend by accessing her e-mail account, down­loading and reading her messages. And now, after exhausting his appeals last week on the ur Judicial Affairs level, Cruz still maintains his innocence and is taking a route rarely traveled by those tried by the UF version of a court system. Cruz, who has been suspend­ed from UP until at least Spring 1999, said he is going to file an appeal in the District Court of Appeals on the state level, an option allotted to students who wish to appeal the final decision handed down at the university level. "I still feel that they did not show that I did any­thing illegal," said Cruz, who was working on a master's degree in anthropology. "I proved point by point that it was a lie, and they didn't tell me what they were basing their decision on." 
• BROWN UNIVERSITY 
Women look at stereotypes in science 
PHOVIDENCE, IU. 

Keynote speakers address challenges and stereotypes that have made it difficult for women to sueceed in sci­ence. Stereotyping was the buzz word of the morning as members of Brown's Women in Science and Engineering [WiSE] program gathered in Salomon on Saturday for WiSE Day, a forum of lectures, panel discussions and workshops focusing on different challenges faced by women in science and engineering. The day's keynote speaker, associate provost at Carnegie Mellon University Barbara Lazarus, addressed the many barriers that stereotypes create for girls and women. "When I was at a school talking to a group of parents about why there were not more women in the sciences, one of the answers given to me was: "Everybody knows girls can't do math," she said. "There's a lot of gender role stereotyping that exists, both internal and external." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for ime conditions and 

The AccuWeather<ll>forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 10. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 20s 
FRONTS: 

~  ......._._  ~  
COLO  WARM  STATIONARY  !Cl 1998 AccuWealher, Inc.  
Pressure  
H  L  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
V1a Associat6d Prttss  

l''-_/.::............................... 
I 

Tuesday Wednesday 4 .. 
Spencer Stefko Lab Tech Anthony Shaker 
-!) 

~ c::3
Tho Obsorvor (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mcmbN of 

Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
thr Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 


Anchorage  25  19  Fresno  55  40  Philadelphia 48  31  
Atlanta  50  38  Honolulu  79  62  Reno  42  25  
Baltimore  45  29  Las Vegas  58  40  St.Louis  50  40  
Boston  38  29  Milwaukee  41  32  Seattle  51  40  
Dallas  68  44  Orlando  63  42  Wichita  52  34  

Tuesday, February 10, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Bratts discuss film's goals Committee reevaluates, 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY the group." the country. 

plans to revamp du Lac 
News Writer Benjamin discussed his deci­"I think that when we talk 
sion to play the role as well as about race, the things we need By TIM LOGAN at the meeting was including 
Following the presentation of the danger of choosing such a to talk about have nothing to do News Writer more detailed information on "Follow Me Home," this reporter controversial character. The with major issues, like affirma­student activities, leadership had the opportunity to sit down quick tempered Abel gets him­tive action," Peter said. "Why Revisions to du Lac were the opportunities and academic and talk with Peter and self into trouble throughout the are people threatened about focus of last night's meeting of resources in the handbook. Benjamin Bratt in a revealing movie through drug use, abusive having a Latino studies pro­the Ad Hoc Committee for Other proposed additions conversation about the movie verbal behavior and gun posses­gram? The times when a majori­Student Rights and include Notre Dame's mission and the duo's hopes for its sion. ty becomes aware of tension are Responsibilities. statement, flow charts detailing impact on this and other institu­"It was a dangerous choice to the times when a hyper-sensitiv­The discussion focused on university administration and tions. make as an actor, because ity arises from receiving criti­making the student handbook student union offices, and lists of 
"It [the movie] goes beyond the there's no way to play the role cism." into a tool which would help stu­publications available to stu­campus," said Peter Bratt, who half-way," the film and televi­Benjamin, who plays Detective dents to participate in the Notre dents. wrote the screenplay and direct­sion star said. "But I'm glad I Ray Curtis on the T.V. show Dame community and provide The committee also consid­ed the film. "You find in institu­did it because it is, in the body of "Law & Order," shared his love them with more knowledge of ered the benefits of changing the tions and governments that peo­my work, the one I'm most of acting as well as some of his the resources available to them. order of the topics covered in du ple don't take multicultural edu­proud of." brother's future plans. "Students feel du Lac is what Lac. The new version would cation seriously, much like Both men talked about the "I feel blessed to be able to do gets thrown at them when they focus first on University institu­minority education has been dis­emotional response most audi­something I love, something that screw up. We don't want that, I tions and progress down to the missed." ences have to Abel. Abel, I would pay to do. Since I was don't feel the administration level of individual students and 
"I feel like my brother [Peter] Benjamin said, is a character young I wanted to be an actor, wants that," said Brendan Kelly, disciplinary regulations. is a possessor of a unique and whom people either love or and it's something that I've student delegate to the "We've tried to arrange it in a original voice," said "Follow Me hate. Many audience members worked hard to attain success Academic Council. He hopes to way that makes more sense," Home" star Benjamin. "I think approached the pair after the in," the younger brother said. de-emphasize the disciplinary said Kelly. he's quite visionary, and not just film's end to discuss A-bel's Of his experience on NBC's aspect of du Lac by adding to "This changes the whole focus to give my brother a slap on the epiphany and relate their own "Law & Order," Benjamin simply and restructuring the document. of it," observed committee mem­back. I truly feel his perspective urban stories to the two. said, "It's changed my life." "We have to change the whole ber Matt Mamak. "Over time will bring exciting new story­"Follow Me Home" is Peter's The brothers plan on collabo­focus of du Lac. We should put people will realize that it can be telling to cinema." first motion picture. The film's rating this summer on another more academic information in useful to students." 
In "Follow Me Home," contemporary urban style has project for New Millenia Films. it," said Kelly. "Currently there With a focus more on informa­Benjamin Bratt plays Abel, a made it easier for the director to Peter will direct and Benjamin is very little about the student's tion than on regulation, du Lac character prone to violent discuss racial and ethnic issues plans on once again carrying role in the mission of the should be "more like a dictio­
behavior who is described by while independently promoting double duty as an actor and a University and very little in nary than a rule book," suggest­Peter, as "the most disturbed of the film at universities across producer. terms of academic resources." ed Ross Kerr, another member One of the changes discussed ofthe committee. 
New staff member joins SMC Counseling·, Career Center 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT fessional counselor in the inars focus on the needs of resource network. According Despite its convenient loca­Associate Saint Mary's New~ Editor state of Georgia. the underclass students. to Nairn, students are able to tion in LeMans Hall, many "Students of all years should Nairn received her bachelor look at the different job students do not take advan­
Saint Mary's has added a feel free to come and talk of arts degree in psychology opportunities available based tage of the resources of the new member to the staff of about their career options," from Taylor University. She on a geographical setting, Counseling and Career the College Counseling and Nairn said. "Internships, earned a master's degree in various job titles, or through Center. Career Center. Heather R. resume set-ups, cover letters, counseling at Georgia State one's major. For example, a "Not too many people know Nairn will be working as a and summer jobs are issues University. student could learn what about the res.ource center," career counselor to all Saint that this department is able to "This has been a very nice careers have been pursued by Nairn stated. Mary's students. help the students with," she change from the clinical set­alumnae with degrees in The career resource center 
A former case manager and continued. ting I was used to," Nairn English. is open during Mondays, counselor at New Life Clinics Counseling in the Career stated. "I have discovered that "It is good to see what we Tuesdays, and Wednesdays in Smyrna, Ga. Narin is also Department at Saint Mary's the people here generally care have here, even if you don't from 8 a.m. until 8:30 p.m. certified by the National can be done on an individual about students." have a clue about what this For further information, call Board of Certified Counselors. basis or through workshops A valuable asset to this center has to offer you," the Career and Counseling There she is a licensed pro-or group services. These sem" department is the alumni Nairn said. Offices at 294-4565. 

Cam_;pus Ministryr Events 






oFFICE oF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesbur~h Library 631-7800 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 Basilica Offices 631·8463 Web site: www.nd.edu./-ministryI 
I
Tuesday, February 10, 4:00 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
JPW Lectors Auditions 
Tuesday, February 10, 7:00pm Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 

Campus Bible Study 
Continuing the study of Paul's Letter to the Ephesians. 
Wednesday, February 11, 7:00-8:00 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 

Contemporary Choir Rehearsal 
All are welcome to join in this new choir! 
Of special interest: Sophomore Class Retreat, Feb. 20-21 Hispanic First Year Students Retreat, Feb. 21-22 


C\ot somethiVlg to 
say? LAse Obse~ve~ 

classifieds. 

. --~ :::. ~~---.· 

--~~~---------­
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 10, 1998 
Blood Out," "Clear and Present Bratt's picture. Danger" and "Demolition Man." In addition to members of the 


Movie 
Bratt currently plays Notre Dame community who continued from page 1 Detective Ray Curtis on NBC's attended the screening 'were 
"Law & Order." The show was several groups from the Family Films, that the motion picture recently nominated for a Screen and Children Center. found limited release. Actor's Guild Award. The brothers will begin shoot­
"When I saw the film in Alfre Woodard, who stars in ing their next project this sum­March 1996 it felt like the cre­the film as Evey, was unable to mer. The script is an urban ator tapped me on the retelling of the story of shoulder and said it's the passion of Jesus 
Christ. Benjamin has

time to work with people 'OUR NUMBER ONE HOPE IS THAT THE 
to heal the pain," Norris already signed on for the said. FlLM SPARKS THE AUDIENCE TO DIA-project, and several other 
Iris Outlaw, the director LOGUE. EssENTIALLY, WE WANT EVERYONE actors, including Edward of the Office of James Olmos and MorganMulticultural Student TO COME OUT OF THE THEATER THINKING Freeman, have expressed 
Affairs, reiterated the ABOUT ISSUES WE DON'T NORMALLY LOOK interest in working with sentiments of the Bratt Peter on the new movie. brothers at the reception AT INTENSELY ...' "Follow Me Home" was 
following the screening. BENJAMIN BRAIT part of the celebration of 
"It's exciting to provide ALTOR, "FoLww ME HoME" Black History Month on another opportunity for campus. Student people to dialogue about issues attend to Saturday night's Activities, Student Union Board, we have found to be difficult," screening due to the Chicago Office of Multicultural Student Outlaw said. "This movie pro­Museum of Science and Affairs, the department of com­vides a good foundation to start Industry Awards Ceremony. munication and theater, La those initiatives." Woodard, who has acted in Alianza, the African-American 
Benjamin Bratt received his "Primal Fear" and "How to Student Alliance and the acting education at the Make an American Quilt," National Association for the American Conservatory Theater received the award for out­Advancement of Colored People in San Francisco and has gone standing recognition in film also helped sponsor Saturday on to play parts in "Blood In, based on her performance in night's event. 

Council 
continued from page 1 
Sullivan, is the establishment of a web page that will give stu­dents access to general infor­mation about study abroad pro­grams, scholarships and grants. 
"There's not one single place where students can find out about [these opportunities]." Sullivan said. 
The council also hopes to start a booklet with answers to commonly asked questions regarding majors and policies within the college. If the plan runs smoothly, each student will receive the booklet next fall. 
A more complex and involved goal is to make improvements within the office of Career and Placement Services. 
"The goal is to make [Career and Placement Services] more conducive to Arts and Letters students. For those who are not interested in business school, there's nowhere else to go," 


Elections 
continued from page 1 
Closely following the Williams/Reising ticket, the FitzSimons/ Murphy ticket came in with just under 15 percent­only about 100 votes shy of the Williams ticket. 
"It hurts to be third," said FitzSimons, "because you're so close to making the run-off." 
lie had no regrets about his ticket's effort, however. "We think we put forth a good cam­paign that focus«)d on the issues and was full of integrity," he said. 
Sullivan said. 
Olivia Williams, assistant director of Career and Placement Services, will attend ALSAC meetings to hear the council's input. 
Among the less administra­tive goals, the council's agenda will include making replace­ments within O'Shaughnessy Hall. Presently, the building's classrooms have neither clocks on the walls nor numbers crn the doors, and the rooms are often crowded beyond comfort­able capacity. With a little help from college dean Mark Roche, Sullivan plans to make these changes. 
"We have the advantage of meeting with [Dean Roche]. and he was very receptive to these changes. There's sup­posed to be a faculty commit­tee, and we're going to give a list of changes to that commit­tee," he said. 
The council is presently made up of 20 students, chosen by Roche. The council has met four times so far, and Sullivan meets with Roche a few times each month. 
"It takes not only guts to run ... but it also means giving up all your time. No one here has done any homework since the cam­paign began," he said, pointing to the other candidates around him. 
Michele Costello will not become the• first female student body president at Notre Dame. Running with A.J. Boyd, she fin­ished fourth with slightly more than 10 percent. Still, she seemed very eager to continue serving the student body in stu­dent government next year. ''I'm looking forward to working with whichever of the two tickets wins," said Costello. 
Matt Tomko and Ross Kerr picked up 9.63 percent, while Kevin Corrigan and Brian Doherty finished with nine per­cent. Mark Leen and Sarah Grunow got 2.49 percent, while Walter Poirer and Gregory Smith got 1.63 percent. Several other votes were either for write-in candidates or were deemed invalid by the election board. 

The most successful tickets were the ones whose candidates managed to get significant sup­port from their own dorms. For example, Sorin College had the highest turnout -about 84 per­cent -with nearly every resi­dent voting for their fellow Otter FitzSimons. Cesaro, a Knott Hall resident, and Selak, from Welsh, each obtained over two-thirds of the vote in their own dorms, while Williams, of Zahm, and Reising, from Pasquerilla East, scored similarly. 
Almost every dorm had a high turnout, and 67 percent of on campus students voted. With the sole exception of Fisher Hall, each dorm's turnout was over 50 percent. 
Overall voter turnout for this year's primary was up to more than 55 percent, an increase of over 14 percent over last year's primary election. 
Lori Mrowka, a member of the Student Judicial Board, attrib­uted this high turnout to the effort of the student election offi­cials. She added, however, that "the incentives we provided encouraged voter turnout," referring to the free fountain drink offered to each student who voted. 
Mrowka was particularly happy about the increase in off­campus voters. Only 16 percent showed up to vote, but this was far more than last year, when only 26 of 1650 ofl'-campus stu­dents voted in the primary elec­tion. 
"We improved the accessibility of the voting places for them," she said. 


7~, 7u, S4t. @ 10:30 /UH ra~, mfl~.·.'\;.~_· Cl, fa
... 
@ e~ r~~ \;\l.l"-'~ tl~ iii\; 
$2.00 

1fJUtWt tJ~ IJ~ P4Wf ~ad Celebrate the Winter Olympics anlwin frdthats,~shirts, skiwear, and other olympic stuff. Watch the ·olympi~_s_ aud have free food arid drinks all.Jljght long!!! 
Tomorrow Night 1SWINGERS 5ophonla_,.~_:e Lit~rary Festival 
~­
Free admission 
·8 \&; 10:30 prn · · A . , -to
Cush 1ng ud1 t O.;t:'~ ti!R--:-~ 
•Directed b~!.P,oug ,'L~• ~-""'­
_ 

.. 0~/JC?.,C~~ McGn:1th 
!2t,lfl AmYl,~ HempeI Da ,~ ~itn{;~ .--·· 
~ -···~~~­
2116 George Elliott Clarke 2
~ /17 S~udent Readers 
7u, S4t. @ E!:OO fuH 
@ e~ r~~ 
$2.00 


latinLovin' Nio~t 
Februa 12 e 
~ 

LaFun B m ],8:30pm
Learn 11 dS~ 
to angoan a a For FREE!!! 


Tuesday, February 10, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Northern Ireland looks to reform police 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 

Britain's governor for Northern freland launched a bid today to reform the province's largely Protestant police, a force that Roman Catholic militants despise. While Belfast peace talks resumed, Mo Mowlam announced a review of the Police Authority, a civilian bureaucracy that is supposed to ensure community-wide oversight of police -but is in fact boycotted by most Catholic representatives. Mowlam urged Protestant and Catholic negotiators to make the author­ity "a robust, independent body, capable of representing the views, wishes and concerns of the community." Reform of the 12,000­strong police force, the Royal Ulster Constabulary. is part of the wider search for a peace settlement in Northern Ireland. Militant Catholics want to abolish the state, which has a dwindling pro-British Protestant majority. Tho force, often working in flak jackets and armored cars after three decades of anti-terrorist duties, is 93 percent Protestant. Despite the high salaries police jobs offer. many Catholics would never con­sider joining what they consider an alien and overtly British institution. Others fear the Irish Republican Army, which has killed about 300 police officers and imposes a heavy social penalty on Catholics who join the force. The IRA is now six months into an open-ended truce. Policemen from Catholic neighborhoods must keep their occupation as confidential as possible and often live as exiles from family and friends. 
American Airlines jet misses runway in Chicago 
CHICAGO 

An American Airlines jet carrying 121 peo­ple missed a runway when it landed at 0' II are International Airport on Monday, heavily damaging the plane and leaving frantic passengers screaming. No one was hurt on Flight 1340, although a firefighter helping evacuate passengers from the Boeing 727 cut his head. The flight originat­ed in Kansas City, Mo. "It was pretty chaotic. Everybody was screaming," an unidentified passenger told WGN-TV. A passenger on the plane told WBBM-AM radio that the plane bounced a couple of times, tearing his seat belt and causing the seat in front of him to come loose from its floor mount. "I think we all feel pretty fortunate," he said. Fog was dense and visibility was a quarter-mile at 
9:57 a.m. when the plane landed, although authorities could not say if weather was a factor. American spokesman AI Comeaux said the airline would not discuss damage to the aircraft. But television footage showed the plane resting on its belly in a muddy field with an engine broken off and a piece of lan.ding gear lying several yards away. 
Nasdaq:
-8.97 1690.43 


-3.92 
NYSE: 5.25 -0.34 
S&P 500: 
1010.74 
-\.72

8180.52 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

< OMP·\:SY  !ICKrH  % CHANGF  S GAIN  PRICE  
IIEALTIICARE TECH  HCTFD  333.33  1.25  1.625  
AMF.R WASTE  AW  81.25  1.62  .1.625  
GEOTF.K COMM  GOTK  76.67  0.718  1.66  
SI/ERI()EN ENERGY PREMIER RESEARCII  511DN PRW  72.41 33.0  2.63 1.75  6.25 7.00  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

LAMINATING T·UTS LAMTU 21.74 0.625 2.25 RECOVERY NETWORK RNET 21.31 0.8125 3.00 RCA LAX RLAXY 21.25 2.12 7.875 CROWLEY MJENER COM 20.24 1.0625 4.19 CARDEMA INC CRDM 18.61 1.000 4.38 

Clinton eyes Social Security fix 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton told a student audience yesterday" we have to start now" to overhaul Social Security. Then he and other adminis­tration officials signaled caution over plunging in too quickly. 
in kicking off his cam­paign to "save" the nation's retirement program, Clinton told a Georgetown University audience: "You don't wait for a rainy day to fix the roof ... It's very sunny outside. And on this sunny day, we should deal with Social Security." 

It was Clinton's first extended remarks on Social Security s~nce he suggested in his State of the Union address that Congress reserve any budget surplus to help shore up the nation's retirement program. Monday he said that, after a year of study, he will confer with House and Senate con­gressional leaders and begin to write actual legislation. 
Gene Sperling, director of Clinton's National Economic Council, said in a White House briefing that no specifics will be advanced by the administration at least until after November's mid­term elections. 
Releasing details now, he suggested, could turn Social Security into a partisan bat­tleground, and jeopardize chances for true reform. 
He also commented on Clinton's appeal to Congress to "save Social Security first" instead of using any budget surpluses to finance tax cuts. 
Using a surplus to help pay down the national debt for the next year or two, while Social Security over­haul legislation is being developed, would be accept­able to the administration, Sperling said. He said the administration will not pro­pose that the surplus actual­ly be held in reserve while the search for a Social Security fix is underway. 
In his speech Clinton announced that the first of four regional forums on overhauling Social Security will be held April 7 in Kansas City, Mo. 
Social Security currently 

. takes in more payroll taxes from working Americans than it pays out in benefits to retirees. But after baby boomers start to retire around 2010, that situation will be reversed. 
Without changes, Social Security by 2029 will be unable to pay due retire­ment benefits. 


page 6 

The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February I 0, 1998 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associa1e News Ediwr 
More than 50 students gath­ered together in the Center for Social Concerns last night at the organizational meeting for the Progressive Student Alliance. 
The group, which has not yet been officially recognized by the University says that its purpose is to, "oppose all forms of oppression -sexism, racism, heterosexism, and elassism -by creating aware­ness on social issues, cooper­ating with existing student groups, empowering students and encouraging action." 
The informal meeting focused on the goals for the group and the process that it will have to undergo in order to be recognized by Student Activities. 
Aaron Kreider, the organiz­er of the group. began the meeting by introducing him­self and claiming that, "Activism has become my life." lie was impressed with the number of peopln that showed up for the meeting and expressed optimism at the ability of the group to accom-

ATTENTION SENIORS What Are You D([))ing After GraJ.uati([))illl???? Tlhinlli: a1bo1ud vohJJ.nteering with the MARKST VOLUNTEER PROGRAM 
Marist Volunteers Serve As: Teachers Coaches Counselors Shelter Managers 
plish its goals. 
"I was involved in a peace group when I studied at Goshen College. In research­ing this topic at Notre Dame I found that there were amaz­ing things being done on this campus in the 1980s about apartheid and divestment movements," he said. "Since the Students for a Democratic Society, there hasn't been a big, national student move­ment anywhere. Ilopefully, people will set up a national conference to bring together like-minded groups." 
Although Kreider is the main organizer, there is no estab­lished power structure in the organization and only general committees to debate topics. 
"With the diversity of ideas that we have as goals, I think that certain things will emerge that we wish to focus on," said Kreider. "Currently, because of the U.S. threats, we are stressing Iraq. It is also impor­tant for us to try and get our­selves recognized by the University." 
The group will meet again on Monday, Feb. 16, at 7 p.m. in the classroom of the Center for Social Concerns. 

Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte, N.C., report that a pre­liminary study using 87 volun­teers showed that the vaccine causes an immune reaction that could protect against infection by E. coli 0157. 
'This is still very early in the research," said Dr. Dwayne F. Alexander, director of the insti­tute on child health and human development, one of the National Institutes of Health. "This is the first human study of this pro­posed vaccine." 
He said the important finding is that the vaccine produced a level of antibody in the volun­teers that could kill E. coli 0157 in the test tube. 
"We don't know yet if it will kill the bacteria in the body," he said. 
Alexander said the next step is tests to determine if the vaccine will prevent E. coli 0157 infec­tion in cattle, which are thought to be the most common source of the infection. 
Results of the preliminary study are published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases. E. coli 0157 is a deadly, new strain of bacteria that can contaminate beef, fruit juice and other foods, causing severe food poisoning symptoms, including bloody diar­rhea and damaged kidneys. People can also become infected by swimming in lakes or rivers contaminated with the organism. 
Children are most seriously affected by the infection. An esti­mated 20,000 Americans are poisoned by E. coli 0157 annual­ly and about 250 die, according to the Centers for Disease ly from cattle manure that can get into meat during butchering or onto fruits or vegetables in the field. Water runoff from pastures with are infected cattle can cont­aminate rivers and lakes. 
E. coli is formally known as Escherichia coli, named for Theodor Escherich, a German bacteriologist who first isolated it 111 years ago. A benign form of the organism lives in the human gut, where it is essential for proper digestion. 
Researchers believe that some genes of a dangerous virus, called shigella, were transferred into E. coli during a shigella epi­demic in Central America in the 1970s. This transformed one strain of a usually harmless germ into a pathogen that does not respond well to antibiotics and can cause severe food poi­soning. 
ful in quickly controlling an out­
break, said Alexander. 
At the end of 26 weeks, 97 per­
cent of the test subjects had anti­
body levels 10 times higher than 
pretest levels. Antibody pro­
duced in the blood of the volun­
teers was able to kill the E. coli 
0157 bacterium in laboratory ·cultures. 
Volunteers experienced no 
serious side effects from the vac­
cine, with irritation at the injec­
tion site being the most eommon 
complaint. 
Alexander said a Minnesota 
firm is now testing the vaccine in 
cattle. He said it may be possible 
to prevent infection by E. coli 
0157 "if we can control it at the 
source." 
A test on children would be 
next, but Alexander said that 
there are no immediate plans to 
conduct further human testing. 


Pizza will be serveJ following program. 'For more information contact: Sister Mary Catherine Nolan 631-5490 
Elections open to all students in good academic & social standing 
You must attend one of the following informational meetings: 
Monday, February 9 or Tuesday, February 10 at 7:00 in Haggar Game Room 
Tuesday, February 10, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
• CANADA 
Chretien: Canada will lend military support 
Associated Press Chretien said. "Canada is not a 
nation that rushes to embrace 
OTTAWA the use of force. We do not 

Canada supports the use of lightly endorse military action. military force against Iraq if For us it is always the last diplomatic efforts fail to end resort." an impasse over U.N. weapons Chretien spoke to President inspections Prime Minister Bill Clinton on Sunday and Jean Chretien said Monday. British Prime Minister Tony 
Chretien spoke at the start of Blair on Monday about a special session Canada's possi­ol' the !louse of ble involve-Commons called ment in an to discuss 'THIS GIVES US NO operation Canada's possi-PLEASURE. CANADA against Iraq.
ble participation During the in aU.S.-led mili-IS NOT A NATION THAT Gulf War in tary operation RUSHES TO EMBRACE THE 1991, Canada 
against Iraq. provided about 
Canada has USE OF FORCE' 1,800 troops in indicated it a back-up role, would agree to in addition to provide troops JEAN CHRETIEN fighter planes and equipment PRIME MINISTER OF CANADA to escort bomb-for non-combat ing missions. support roles, Chretien con­but Chretien wanted to delay a tinued to hold out hopes of a decision about the scope of a diplomatic end to the impasse, possible deployment until after but said for the first time that a parliamentary debate. Canada must support military 
That decision is not expected intervention if diplomacy fails. until after a Cabinet meeting "A military intervention is planned for Tuesday. not imminent, but don't be But Chretien made it clear mistaken," Chretien said. 
Monday that at least in princi­"Saddam has shown very ple, he backs the use of force clearly that he will not respect against Iraq. diplomatic solutions, unless of 
"Tonight I want to lay out course, they are accompanied clearly before the people of by a threat of intervention or Canada why we believe their an intervention." government should support Chretien said Canada will military action if he [Saddam lend military support -"not llusseinl does not comply," combat troops, but it will Chretien told the House of mean a Canadian presence in Commons. the action against Saddam 
"This gives us no pleasure," Hussein." 
.. day appearance. Such filing would have. to be kept confi· 
"c"c-·"cc•·····...ge~tial U:(l~i;lr grand jury . secrecy rules~ Girisburg declined to discuss the content of his motion, but told The As.~pciated ..Press of "how damaging these leaks hav~ be(ln to Monica get-.. 
Storms hit California hard 
Associated Press "My thoughts and prayers are with those affect­ed by the floods and mudslides," the presidentTIJUANA, Mexico said in a statement. 
Soldiers and rescue workers scraped away mud Californians took advantage of a break from the and debris Monday after El Nifio-fed floodwaters storms that have battered the West Coast for a roared through a border shantytown, killing 13 week. They cleared roads, cleaned catch basins people and forcing hundreds to flee their homes. and drains and rebuilt sandbag barricades. 
Three teen-age girls were killed after fast-flow­Sunshine bathed Southern California, which has ing mud swallowed their family's car at the foot seen up to two feet of rain in some areas this of the eastern shantytown of Mexico Lindo, or month. Beautiful Mexico. Swirling floodwaters dragged Forecasters said the next storm was expectedan18-year-old girl from her house to her death. to blow ashore farther north Monday night, with Some 500 people took refuge at shelters because the brunt of the bad weather hitting Oregon and their neighborhoods were buried in mud, water Washington state. 
and debris. But California was still far from drying up.
"The hill was falling down. All the water was Seven-foot waves coupled with a 6-foot-high tide running through the house," said Hermillinda pounded San Clemente beach homes and ate Garcia, 36, who brought her five children to a away 100 feet of sand at Malibu's Broad Beach, shelter. 
80 miles south. 

North of the border, a preliminary tally of The Malibu beach retreats of Steven Spielberg, storm damage throughout California ranged up to Danny DeVito, Frank Sinatra, Goldie Hawn, Jack $300 million, and President Clinton issued a dis­Lemmon and Dustin Hoffman weren't threatened, aster declaration for the state, ordering federal but one home was destroyed and four others aid for a 27 -county area north of Ventura County. were seriously damaged. 
Take the less-traveled 

road 
Fr. Jim King, cs.c 
Fr. Bill Wack. c.s.c. 
Give us one year. Give yourself the <;hance. 
For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Candidate Program contact 
Moreau Seminary Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 


'l Ill I I 
~ 
• 

IT'S THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN! 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION IS LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO MAKE SOME SSSS DURING THE ALUMNI REUNION JUNE 4-7 1998 
ALUMNI FAMILY HALL -AUGUST 2 1998 
INTERESTED? 
APPLY AT STUDENT EMPLOYMENT 336 GRACE HALL OR AT THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
() 

202 BROWNSON HALL 
I 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February I 0, I 998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 631-7471 



SAINT MARY's OFFICE: .~09 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor............................ Hcather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jcd Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ..............................Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller.. .............................. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Karic Kroener 
The Observer is the independcm newspaper published by the students ofrhe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr M.uy'!> College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The new'i is reported as accurately and objcclivdy a.-. possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Sporn. Editor, Accent Ediror, Saint Mary's Ediwr, Photo Editor, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obsorver. Viewpoint space is availahle to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all readers. The frtt expression ofvarying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 6.11-4542 Business Office 6.11-5313 Managing Editor 6J 1-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spor!S 631-45H Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Marv's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Gcnemllnformarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obsC"rvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• So, WHAT's Mv PoiNT? 
Ilmmm. Last week was chock Neither the gender of a victim. full of news-news that did NOT nor their race or religion should relate to Clinton, or Monica predispose them for the death Lewinsky, or the Olympics. penalty more than others. While Some of the news was actually I agree that the death penalty intnresting. Let's take a look at should be meted out for those some of the headlines: who have committed heinous 
The Texas parole board made crimes, I also believe that the 
the right decision last week. death penalty itself should be administered fairly. It is not fair to sentence one person to life in prison and another to death merely because one happens to be a man and the other a
Nakasha 
woman. Moreover, the point of "religious conversion" seems a bit iffy. The law requires that
Ahmad 
people who have committed crimes be punished for those crimes, not for the reli-gious "state" they were in when they committed that crime. Religious 
The board decided not to give conversion or no, the fact Carla Faye Tucker a reprieve remains that she killed two peo­from the death penalty for the ple, and that she was sentenced pickaxe murders of two people in to death for it. 1983. Not to mention the fact that 
Whether you agree with the "religious conversion" itself is a merits of the death penalty or questionable reason for being not (and I happen to), it is doubt­lenient. After all, who decides less that the death penalty is which "religion" is legitimate, used with discrimination. and even which "conversion" is Disproportionately morn blacks legitimate? and men are assigned to death row than are whites and women. Unconstitutional or Common In fact, Tucker was only the sec­Sense? ond woman to be executed in Recently, a judge in this country since the death Massachusetts ruled that penalty was allowed to be rein­women-only gyms and health stated by the Supreme Court in clubs were legal after all. 197(), Thank God. 
The cries of some of Tucker's Now, however, the National advocates last week indicated Organization of Women is chal­that they expected-or at least lenging this ruling, saying that it hoped for-leniency because she promotes and "legalizes" dis­was a woman-a woman, more­crimination based on gender. over, who had experienced a That by saying that men are not "religious conversion" and allowed to join women's health should therefore be given a clubs (and vice versa), we are reprieve and sentenced to life in turning back the clock and going prison instead of death. back to the era where women were not allowed to join any men's organizations. 

This is ridiculous. A health club, or gym, is a different type of facility. While I agree with equal opportunity, I think there is a point where it can be taken too far. 
A health club or a gym is a place where people come to exercise. As the judge pointed out in his ruling, the gym is a semi-private type of setting, where people of both genders are "vulnerable." The position of NOW, in this case, seems to be ridiculous. By simply allowing women, (and men, by the way) the privacy of exercising in a gym without members of the opposite sex looking on does not seem to be turning back the clock at all. Rather, it seems to be a thoughtful consideration of equality and the needed privacy of individuals who feel that they need a women's gym to cater fully to their needs. Certain places should be allowed to stay private (provided, of course, that this is what the majority wants.) 
What's next on NOW's agenda -unisex bathrooms? 
Nakasha Ahmad is a sopho­more English major at Saint Mary's. Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
Upside Down 
Rene Mulligan's Letter to tho Editor regarding the supposedly offensive Keenan Hevue only exemplifies a common and pervasive attitude in our community: we take ourselves way too seriously. The Revue pro­vides us with a forum to see an exaggerated portray­al of various aspects of the University. Ms. Mulligan and others fail to separate the jokes, innuendoos, and unique stereotypes of different groups from the 
·•. feelings and views of those making the jokes. Nobody really thinks that Zahm is Notre Dame's bastion of homosexuality. And I know 
·i!iJBreen-Phillips is not stockpiling vats of Yo-Cream in 
% their basement. 

This intra-campus humor adds a personality to the University community that allows us to break up the 
homogeneity of the student population. 
Rarely are these comments intended to ridicule or debase anything; Hevue-type comments are meant only to poke fun. Not coincidentally, the Revue is schedulod for the 
' nd of January in an attempt to ease the monotony and disinterest so easily created by a South Bend winter. ;.~elax, laugh at yourself. Notre Dame. 
......... The view presented by Ms. Mulligan strikingly · ·.. ·· the attitude prevalent in the Saint Mary's '?College uproar brought about by the Jetter written by Ms. Syner and Ms. Fuller. Why must we concern 
· courselves with every little comment or personal view? . Recently, a professor indicated that she did not like or appreciate Dilbert (yes, the comic strip) because it made light of her profession. And yes, Notre Dame, the Stanford Band's off-color halftime presentation at the football game should not have created as much attention as it did. 
Maybe it's due to insecurity, an innate desire for 
. or the political correctness of today. I
The views expressed in this 
know. But next time someone makes fun of
column are those of the author 

me, I'll be laughing. 
and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Sean P. Smith Sophomore, O'Neill Hall February 7, 1998 
•  000NESBURV  
6001?MOI?NIN6, IJO>SANl? MYNAMe5 /?R.WW lt/HITA~. ~  I'M HERE 70HEL.P Ya-1 MAKE S5/115e a=.%>MS" or 7H6tJNser­Tt!NG THIN$ W'~8fieN He.ARJN6 ON 'THl3 N/31US A8CVT'YWR PRI!SII:tfN7l ~  

GARRY TRUDEAU 

THeRe MAYeVeNl?t3 t:E/i!J'AIN lfiOI?[:5tRPHRASES 71iATRJZ­Z/.13 Yah IAIORPSt/K/3... t!M... 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Myfavorite animal is 
meat." 
-James Bockstoce 

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 10, 1998 page 9 
• TABLE TALK • lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Eschatology Let Boys be Boys, Part I 
I am angered and offended by the Observer's I would like to congratulate Ms. Petelle on her Inside Column last Friday, Feb. 6, 1998, in emotional stability and academic success, but
and the which Laura Petelle registered her disapproval also inform her that it is indeed possible to 
of Notre Dame men, and I would like to address achieve those things and more without cutting 
Olympic Games 
Eschatological. Now there's a word you won't often see in the newspaper. Literally, it means "concerning the last things." Biblically, "eschatological visions" are those passages that try to describe the world in its 
=========~~~~~~~ final state, as
brought to 
fulfillment by 
God. 
Isaiah 
(11 :6, 9), for 
instance, por­
trays preda­

David 
Weiss 
tor-prey rela­tionships giv­

-----========----
ing way to
"the peace­

able kingdom," envisioning a time when "the wolf 
shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lay 
down with the kid, and the calf and the lion and the 
fatling together, and a little child shall lead them ... 
They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy moun­
tain." 
Micah (4:3) foresees the clashes of clan and culture 

overcome as implements of force become implements 
of food when at last "nations shall beat their swords 
into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; 
nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither 
shall they learn war anymore." 
Without making the very dangerous claim that we 

can achieve such visions by simple human will, l do 
think that both prophets intended them to play a vital 
role in shaping our admittedly more mundane aspira­
tions and choices. Eschatological visions serve as 
something of a moral compass. And we forfeit them 
at great peril. The King James Version of Proverbs 
29:18 is both eloquent and ominous: "Where there is no vision. the people perish." 
On some level the Olympic games are an eschatolog­

ical vision. The five-colored interlocking rings on the 
Olympic flag promise the possibility of unity across 
boundaries of continent and country. The ceremonial 
pageantry affirms diversity within a global communi­
ty. And the competitions themselves offer the ideal of 
celebrating the human spirit and the pursuit of 
human excellence. (Though I will readily grant that 
our media coverage and our medal counts often fall 
far short of this ideal.) 
Still, I draw this parallel because I think that to 

empty the Olympics of their value as vision, to reduce 
them to matters of inconsequence beside such 
"sacred" notions as the national interest, is a perilous 
path -and it is the path onto which we as a nation 
have turned. 
Last week, as the intensity of the Iraq crisis grew, 

the International Olympic Committee asked the United 
States to forestall any military attack until after the 
games had ended. Defense Secretary William Cohen 
replied that "external events" like the Olympics would 
play no role in any military timetable, suggesting it 
would be irresponsible to hold back a possible U.S. 
attack on account of the games. White House 
spokesperson Mike McCurry further explained, the 
president's foremost obligation is simply to protect 
national interests. 
I do not dismiss the seriousness of the Iraq crisis, 

although the absence of any clear international con­
sensus that military action is the appropriate 
response at this time might at least give us pause to 
question the confidence with which we approach 
another conflagration. My concern, however, is that, 
as a people who take pride in ideals of freedom and 
democracy which ultimately know no national bound­
aries, we at least ask ourselves: What does it mean to 
decide that a plea for peace during the Olympics, the 
most powerful eschatological symbol of world commu­
nity today, is antithetical to our national interests? 
If war comes again to the Gulf after the Olympics, 

those 16 days of peace will no doubt be quite insignif­
icant, especially to those who will inevitably suffer 
and die despite the short reprieve. I cannot deny 
that. 
But I will say this. If we choose to bomb Iraq during the Olympic games -and especially if we do so on the already stated pretense that the games them­selves make no difference -then in addition to the loss of human life we will need as well to mark a very real loss of human vision. And if the author of Proverbs is right, such a loss isn't in anybody's national interest. 
David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian ethics. !lis column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
some of her opinions. 

First, Ms. Petelle made an outrageous general­ization, dividing all NO men into two types, nei­ther particularly favorable in her opinion. Rather than being open-minded to what any individual might have to offer, she blindly dis­missed the entire gender as being unacceptable before she even gave us a chance. It's that kind of blatant stereotyping that lies at the root of ALL forms of discrimination, be it sexual, racial, or whatever. 
"And people wonder why gender relations are abysmal at Notre Dame," she emphatically stat­ed, as if she'd found the root of the problem, while hypocrites like herself truly make it worse with their narrow-minded opinions. 
Now, I enjoy the relaxation of video games and the company of my roommates, but I am hardly one of her "type A" guys. I also enjoy sponta­neously delivering a flower once in a while and spending time with someone of the opposite sex of whom I am genuinely fond, but I don't seem to fit the "type B" mold, either. And just because I'm not "scared to death of being alone" doesn't mean I want to force myself to be. I don't claim to be a "gender relations poster­boy," but I do know that gender relations is about learning from experience, which she intentionally shuns (though with attitudes like hers, I seriously question whether her "boy hia­tus" is as self-inflicted as she claims). 
I read Laura Petelle's "Inside Column" that ran last Friday, and it does not surprise me that the last line of her article reveals that she will be going to her SYR this weekend by herself. She tries to point out two different types of men that exist here at Notre Dame, and it is obvious that she is doing nothing to help out the gender relations problems that exist here. Her type A men love Nintendo, their roommates, and live in pigsties. This is an interesting assessment. In fact, I think that she accurately described any male college student. It is obvious that Miss Petelle has not observed males. at other colleges, or she would notice that, in this respect, they are EXACTLY like those here at Notre Dame. I think that a reason for this can be extrapolated from Miss Petelle's article. She states that she has, on her seven-month "boy hiatus, ... had lots of quality bonding time with my couch and my chick flicks." She then goes on to say that she has watched "'Little Women' more times than [she] can count." Is this how she expects the "rare, normal guys" to spend their Friday evenings? Watching "Little Women" and telling sob stories? I think that if they did, Ms. Petelle would pigeonhole them into her type B category. How does a guy win? I have been here three years, and it is obvious that there are many problems with gender relations. 
However, I hang out with many "normal oneself off from half the university's population, a lifestyle she naively considers "extremely healthy." I am living proof that nothing is healthier than being open to allowing someone to inspire you to want to become a better per­son. Each person I meet helps me grow and learn; I take every experience, good or bad, with me on my journey toward finding my future life­time partner. At our 10 or 20 year class reunion, my wife and I will be sure to take a moment to look up Ms. Petelle and she'll still be easy to find. 
I'm all for freedom of speech, but I asked The Observer to please look more carefully at the content of articles by "journalists" like Ms. Petelle before allowing such garbage to pollute its publication. 
I ask the students of Notre Dame to reject the childish views of their fellow student, and to take advantage of this great place and the plethora of wonderful and interesting people it has to offer. 
And finally, I suggest to Laura Petelle that she turn down the estrogen a little and get out of her room a little more. Laura, get off your couch, wake up, and take a whiff of reality. 
Mark Luczak 
Sophomore, O'Neill Hall 
February 8, 1998 

girls," and we do normal things. They do not ask me to watch "Little Women," and I do not ask them to play Nintendo. Granted, my female­friends occasionally have to step over an old pizza box, but when I go to their place, I have to put up with all of their goofy picture collages and the Indigo Girls. The point is, we are differ­ent. There are things that we do that women may not like, but there are also things that women do that men can't stand (such as chick flicks). But we need these things. That's what makes us male and you female. Let us have our space, and you can have yours. When was the last time that a male wrote an article in this paper putting down females for sitting around and watching chick flicks? Not in a while, and it is because the majority of us really do not care what you do in your free time, so long as you do not expect us to take part. We do not want you to take part in our "male bonding" time, so just leave it to us. If yuu and the men that you know cannot find a middle ground, then it is your own problem. Just don't try to put ALL of us into a negative category because you cannot seem to find a group of guys that will watch "Little Women" with you. 
Gabe Bosslet 
Junior, Zahm Hall 
February 7, 1998 



~------------------­
Tuesday, February 10, 1998

;ACCENT
page 10 



e 
e

wea 
1n 
I 
• AccENT AsKs •.• When have you been really stressed? 

"During the time when I wrote my college applications. I finished 
them as quickly as I could, then it 
was out my hands and I could 
relax." 
Patrick Lach Freshman, Dillon 
"I had a big anatomy test so I 
played with cat bones." 
Sara Levandusky Junior, LeMans 


"Waiting to hear back from an interview was stressful. slept off the stress." 
Saul Mancilla Senior, Sarin 
"It was during finals. I had a ton of work 
to do, so I spent ten hours in SOH 
studying. Then before my physics test, 
I went to the lake for a change in 
scenery, and watched the birds fall 
through the melting ice; it was amus­
ing." 
Elizabeth Kerbleski Sophomore, Lyons 


"I was under a lot of stress my first three semesters here. Then I switched from engineering to business." 
Joe Reed Sophomore, Knott 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
Feeling blue in F 


By BRIDGET RZEZUTKO 
Accent Writer 

It's second semester, it's February and everyone is Midterms are approaching and summer is too far a begin to anticipate. There are so many important things; whether or not you'll get that internship this summer, grad1 you'll get into the medical school or law school of your choice.' This is not even mentioning the little, everyday grievances thai those days that from the moment you wake up, things just go \\j slept and missed your first class, or are completely irritated by yo what the situation. outside forces can trigger feelings of anxiety, stre! Even the weather can have an impact on mental outlooks. Let's fac 
in South Bend are anything but cheery. If it isn't snowing, it's raining. Consequently, most of our time is spent indoors. This kind of weather' 
people to feel down in the dumps, trapped and restless. In winter month However, there is a point when the winter blues and stress can turn into 
chiatric disorder characterized by feelings of worthlessness, guilt, sadnes Although everyone may experience feelings of sadness from the loss of a lo or being homesick, clinical depression is much more severe. It is accompa 
loss of initiative, self-punishment, withdrawal and inactivity, and changes in interest in activities one once found enjoyable, not wanting to do anything. common symptoms. 
Many people make comments about feeling depressed. It is important to r feeling sad and being clinically depressed. Clinical depression tends to run in predisposition to mental illness is genetically transmitted. Thus, the risk of a families of depressive patients than the population as a whole. Statistics tend ed than men, but psychologists feel this may be because women are more lik 
there is an under-diagnosis of depression in the male population. Surveys sht suffer from significant depressive symptoms at any one time, striking people of 

If you are experiencing these symptoms of depression, or know someone Hemember, a friend may provide a good ear for venting your l'rustra the best answer to finding a solution. There are places to go on campus for help. On Saint Mary's campus thert where sessions are free and confidential. Hours are Monday through Frid more information and to be scheduled with a counselor. At Notre Dame, call the University Counsnling Center at 631-7336. H ,9a.m.-5p.m. Individual sessions are $4 but the fee can be waived Counselors are available 24 hours a day in case of an emergency at that Don't be afraid to seek help, but if all you are looking for is to relie1 hectic time, here are some suggestions. 
1) Take a nap. Sleep is crucial to our bodies. Without it or from 
begin to feel crabby, jumpy and not energized. Try to get between, order to feel more alert and in good spirits. 
2) Exercise daily. Doing this will increase not only your 
en energy level. 
3) Most importantly, relax. Get your mind off of th awhile. Call an old friend. Write a letter. Do whatever it is that makes you feel the most pea 
ease. Don't worry, the blues won't last forever; 


ACCENt
Tuesday, February 10, 1998 page 11 
• 

s ress 1n co 


occur. Everyone has . Maybe you over­
roommate. No matter and depression. it: the winter months here 
If it isn't stormy, it's cloudy. and lack of activity can cause these feelings are natural. ll<>r•r<>•ocion. Depression is a psy­lplessness and hopelessness. one, the end of a relationship, ied by other disturbances such as leeping and eating habits. Losing and pushing others away are also 
there is a difference between lies. It is almost certain that the 1ri.,,,r.,,,,.,ive disorder is greater in the show that more women are afflict­to seek help than men. Therefore 
that as many as 20 in 100 people all age groups. 
o is, neither of you is abnormal or but sometimes a counselor is 

is a Career and Counseling Office , 8a.m.-5p.m.. Call 284-4565 for 
are Monday through Friday a student is unable to pay. same number. some pressure during this 
significant lack of it, we to 9 hours per night in 
stuff for 
COLLEGE STRESS 
STRESS. It's that collection of mounting pressures and creeping anxieties, all-night panics and heart-pounding emo­tions. It's the agony of making big decisions, or coping with a maze of small problems. Each of us perceives stress and copes with it in a different way. A situation that is comfortable -even energizing-for one person may drive another up the wall. So each of us has a "stress threshold" and when that personal limit is crossed, we can experience some very negative effects, emotionally and physically. 
THE BIG FIVE 

Five types of pressures seem to cause students the most trouble during college: 
Separation from family. 
Freedom. 
Competition. 
Peer pressure 
Choosing a career. 

It's nearly impossible to make it through college without experiencing at least one of the Big Five, and sometimes it's hard to know whether the pressures are spurring you on or dragging you down. Yet making that distinction is essen­tial to your own health and success. What to do? Read on .... 
SUCCESS WITH STRESS 

How can you know when you're slipping from a healthy, motivating level of stress into harmful "distress"? Here are some of the telltale symptoms: General irritability, hyper-excitedness, or depression. Pounding of the heart. An overpowering urge to cry or run and hide. Inability to concentrate. Feelings of unreality, weakness, and dizziness. Frequent fatigue. Floating anxiety (being afraid, but not knowing what you're afraid of). Migraine headaches. Emotional tension and alertness (being "keyed up"). Trembling; nervous tics. Tendency to be easily startled by small sounds. High-pitched, nervous laughter. Stuttering and other speech difficulties. Grinding of the teeth. Insomnia. Sweating. Pain in the neck or lower back. Frequent urination, diarrhea, indigestion, queasiness, and sometimes even vomiting. Missed menstrual periods. Loss of or excessive appetite. Increased smoking. Increased use of prescription drugs. Nightmares. Accident-proneness. If you recognize some of these symptoms in yourself and feel they are the result of too much stress, here are some 
techniques to help you find relief. Consider these a "menu" of options and choose those that sound good to you and are practical for your situation. 
1. 
WORK OFF STRESS. 

2. 
TALK OUT YOUR WORRIES. 

3. 
SAY "NO" MORE OFTEN. 

4. 
LEARN TO ACCEPT WHAT YOU CANNOT CHANGE. 

5. 
RELAX YOUR STANDARDS. 

6. 
FIND THE HUMOR IN IT. 

7. 
CHANGE YOUR PERSPECTIVE. 

8. 
AVOID SELF-MEDICATION. 

9. 
GET ENOUGH SLEEP & REST. 

10. 
GET HELP WITH THE JOBS YOU HATE. 

11. 
ESTABLISH A SERENE PLACE OF YOUR OWN. 

12. 
COUNT YOUR BLESSINGS. 

13. 
BALANCE WORK & RECREATION. 

14. 
TAKE TIME OUT. 

15. 
DO SOMETHING FOR OTHERS. 

16. 
TAKE ONE THING AT A TIME. 

17. 
UNCLUTTER YOUR LIFE. 

18. 
GIVE IN ONCE IN AWHILE. 


19. 
REWARD YOURSELF AFTER STRESSFUL ACTIVITIES. 

20. 
MAKE YOURSELF AVAILABLE. 



The article in its entirety can be found on http://www.safuwplatt.edu/counsel/stress/stress.htm 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 10, 1998 
•NBA 


Players. differ in opinions on Jordan's departure 
Associated Prus he will retire. needs so much drama in his for-18 with eight assists, six "No. That was just an appe­Neither side figures to blink life." rebounds and three steals. tizer thrown out by Phil," NEWYOHK until the playoffs are over and "I think this was his last (All­"If that was his last, it was a Jordan said. 
This might have been it's clear whether the Bulls Star) game," Penny Hardaway great way to go out," Jason Would he play elsewhere Michael Jordan's final All-Star have added to their dynasty said. Kidd said. "lf he does decide to next season if Jackson gets a game, and it will be followed with a sixth title in eight years. "We hope be won't retire," retire, he's going out at the job coaching another team? by what might be a farewell If they win, the pressure to Gary Payton said. ''We hope be right time -out on top." "Nowhere else,"Jordan said. tour and what might be a last capitulate will be on owner comes back because he makes There is skepticism regard­Would he play for the Knicks? championship push. Jerry Reinsdorf and general it more competitive." ing Jordan's pronouncements "No. I said I'd only do that if I 
Through it all. there will be manager Jerry Krause. If Added West coach George because he bas gone back on was single. I'm not single,~ believers and nonbelievers. someone knocks the Bulls off, Karl: ''The h~ague will learn his word before. Jordan said. Why don't people Some think it's the end of the management will haye an how to function without When he retir13d in 1993 to believe him? Jordan Era, some think it's all excuse to rebuild the team. Michael. but I'll go on record become· a ha.s~hall player, he "I don't know," he said. "I a big charade. "He's such a great person, a right now that I personally said he was finished playing guess you'll have to wait and 
"How many times do you great player, that it will really think Michael should continue basketball. see. want me to say it?" Jordan hurt if we lose him," Eastern to play. When he returned in 1995, People don't want to see it or asked Sunday after winning Conference. All-Star coach "I think we all want to try to he wore uniform No. 45 and people just don't want it to his third All-Star MVP award. Larry Bird said. Bird, like beat him. He has set the stan­said he would never wear No. happen. ''I'll say it once more. If Phil nearly everyone at All~Star dard at such a height that any· 23 again. But this day was going to (Jackson) is not in Chicago, I'm weekend, heard the Jordan body who has the opportunity In both cases, Jordan flip­happen sooner or later. not playing." question over and over. And wants to go after the best. And flopped. Now, people are look­''I've always said I would not 
Jordan did not change his like everyone, he didn't know he has proven to be the best ing forany sliver of hedging on walk out of the game limping. stance during All-Star week· whether to believe it. many, many times." his part. If I walk out of the game, I end. He simply reiterated what "Michael will be here again Jordan won the MVP award If he won't play or any coach want to walk out knowing I he has been saying for weeks: next year and will win the after leading all scorers with other than Jackson, would can still play. People have to If the Bulls change coaches. as MVP again," Jayson Williams 23 points as the East beat the heconsider being a player­believe that." management maintains it will, said. "I don't know why Mike West 135-114. Jordan shot 10-coach? 
•NBA 

Mason faces assault charges 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Anthony Mason is about to lind out if his latest brush with trou­ble has soured New York's opin­ion of him. 
During his time with the New York Knieks. Mason's hard play endeared him to fans at Madison Square Garden. They loved his ruggedness under the boards and his amazing ballhandling skills for such a strong man. Knicks fans even continued to cheer for Mason when he returned with the Charlotte llornets. 
Tonight, he might not be wel­comed back quite so warmly when the Knieks and Hornets play. 
Mason will be playing for the first time since he was arrested last weekend for allngedly hav­ing sex with 14-and 15-year-old sisters. 
On Monday, an embarrassed 
Mason spoke publiely for the first time since his arrest, apolo­gizing to his family and team­mates. 
"Did I do this? No, definitely not," he said following the team's practice at an Upper West Side fitness club. ''I'm inno­cent." 
Mason was charged Sunday with statutory rape, sexual abuse and endangering the wel­fare of a child following accusa­tions by the girls that he and a cousin had sex with them. Mason, who was released on $20,000 bail, faces up to four years in prison if convieted. 
''I'd like to say I'm sorry to my family and for the embarrass­ment of this situation,"Mason said. "Once again, it's a silly situ­ati<m. I'd like to say sorry for the embarrassment to the team." 
After making his short state­ment. Mason hurried out of the Heebok Sports Club and boarded a chartered bus with his team­mates for the short trip back to the Plaza HoteL 

Before joining Mason on the bus, his agent, Don Cronson, reiterated his client's stance. 
"He did nothing wrong, noth­ing illegal." Cronson said. "Nothing, nothing, nothing." 
In their complaint, the girls said Mason and his cousin, William Duggins, an unemployed construction worker who was also charged, met them during a benefit basketball game, then drove to Duggins' home. 
Mason, who was in town visit­ing family over the weekend during the All-Star break, is accused of having sex with the girls in a basement bedroom at the house. The sexual abuse charge stemmed from events in a limousine on the way there, aeeording to the complaint. 
Cronson said Mason was in the ear with the girls, but that all they were doing was "driving around." 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Walker steps up to lead Virginia over Maryland 
Associated Press No. 3 Old Dominion last month. Virginia now has won 14 con­COLLEGE PARK, Md. secutive games against 
DeMya Walker had a basket Maryland (13-9, 6-6). and a key steal in the final 20 Both teams had their lowest seconds and Mimi McKinney point total of the season. scored 11 of her 15 points in Stephanie Cross scored nine of the second half to help No. 12 her game-high 21 points for Virginia hold off Maryland 47-Maryland in final nine minutes, 45 Monday night. including a jumper that gave the 
Trailing 45-44 with 35 seconds Terrapins their 45-44 lead. left, Walker followed up a Both teams struggled in the McKinney miss with 19.7 sec­first half. when Virginia had 17 
onds left, then stole the ball on of its turnovers while the an inbounds pass and was Terrapins had 13. Maryland fouled. shot 25 percent (6 of 24) in the 
Walker missed both free first 20 minutes. throws but Maryland turned the The Cavaliers took a 13-2 lead ball over again with 3.3 seconds as Maryland missed 13 of its left, and McKinney added a free first 14 shots and scored onlythrow with 2.4 seconds left. two points in the first 10 min­
Walker finished with 15 points utes, 52 seconds. But the and 12 rebounds as Virginia (17-Terrapins managed to cut the 5, 8-4 ACC) overcame a season­lead to 23-1 R at halftime and high 29 turnovers in winning its later climbnd back from a 33-22 fourth straight since losing to deficit. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day !rom 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexr-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  Tutor needed to work with high school student preparing forGED.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  price field fee. 291·2540.  beware of mistreated waitresses.  Andrea- 
Areas to review are govt, algebra,  We are sad to hear that tonight was  
HEY!! It's not too early to place a  geometry, & writing. Prefer tutor to come to house. but student can  TICKETS  yes, a sink. the only safegueard against the idiocrosy of parietals.  don-Adonde esta el espa-ol? este es el  your so-called last night up here. We will miss you terribly.  
VALENTINE in the classified ads for your sweetie and/or a friend! ARE YOU A SURVIVOR OF RAPE? Sex Offense Services is offering a free, confidential rape  drive to tutor. Call 272-8235. I WANTED: 2 Allen Jackson tickets 247·0737FOR RENT L-H-ou-se_F_o_rR-e-nt______. I PERSONAL  hey, I have nothing to hide!! kevin n. canOt even win the atari games loser  malvado en mi mundo. -chica This is the commander: These classifieds have been  Mark Deboy could be the best guy I have ever seen where a bra.  
support group for undergraduate  Two Blocks From Campus  ·  checked and approved by the  I am sorry to inform you that we will  
and graduate women at Notre  4-5 Bedroom. Dishwasher,  ADOPTION IS LOVE  andrea- Minister of Piety.  not let you use Kumbaya as an  
Dame. Saint Mary's. IUSB, and  Washer/Dryer. Large Backyard and  Happily married NO Alumni couple,  wanna chocolate muffin?l  The Minister of Intelligence, howev­ adjective.  
Holy Cross. Please call 283-1308  Off Street Parking.  with adopted 3 year old daughter,  er, has declined to submit his seal  
for more information.  June 98 for Summer, August for  wants to shower new baby with  you donOt understand do you? a  of approval, especially for the ranti­ YEAH, Happy Birthday to  
ILOST & FOUND I  Fall. FREE MONITORED SEGUR/­TV SYSTEM! Call289-4712  love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset, trips  deathly silence falls upon the class...  ngs of Mark DeBoy, which may fol· low this statement on any given day.  Scholastic's next EIC. Way to ride your endorsement, there, pal.  
to the zoo, grandma, play groups,  why do kids here have the worst  Copyright 1492. All lefts reserved.  Pat, leave the Dark Side. Join the  
Lost Tl-85 calculator in Fitz Comp  ROOM $128+util Share house w/  lullabies, too. This is a home where  personal hygiene habits?  Good Side of the Force.  
Lab. PLEASE call4x1067.  grad stu Good neighborhd 280·  wishes come true. We'd like to get  Obsever cpoy editers grasheously  
5274  to know you. Call Shawn & Meg  colleen,  akcept tipss.  Because let's face it, it'll be worth it  
'REWARD' for return of thin gold  800·767·4257.  a cruel trick you play on me, to build  because we're instituting a 24-hour  
wedding ring lost in Rockne weight  Studio for Rent: 1st floor furnished.  Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid.  me up and then let me fall. what  Stop the penny madness!! I  buffet policy. That's the FIRST  
room. Please call Peter @282·  Modern studio-Auten Rd.  evil has been done to you that  order of business.  
2449.  425/mo., util. included. Close to  BRING YOUR PENNIES TO THE  makes you act so?  I am job!  
right tenant, options negotiable, Call  IRISH CONNECTION TONIGHT.  -don antonio  B2 -for allthe breezes, late-night  
WANTED  277·2211 during the day. Deposit and refer.  Attention All Off-Campus JtJniors  Hey rumor has it that somebody's birthday is Monday. Whose could it  insanity, random car switches, late fees, DC's and countless skies  
and Seniors Attending JPW '98  HEY BIG KIDS BARS LOOK OUT,  be?  of brue. know that I think the world  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  You are invited to a luncheon at  SUZY TOMPKINS TURNS THE  of you. You da bomb.  
· Fishing industry. Excellent earn·  JPW AND OTHER ND-SMC  Alumni Senior Club on Sa~Jrday,  BIG BAD 21 TODAY. DON'T GET  Hutch- Love, your "Joe lies" sidekick  
ings & benefits potential.  EVENTS.  February 21, 1998 from 12:30 to  HER TOO DRUNK BECAUSE AMY  Times sure are a changing. It  
Male/Female. No experience nee· essary. Ask us how! 517·324-3116 ext. A55841  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  2:00pm. Bring your parents and enjoy lunch with your friends!  IS SCARED!  seems like just yesterday that we worked together and struggle through the long nights. Now, I  Hey, who was the editor of the recruiting insert?  
Pass counterfeit $ = YOU break the  Looking for a unique gift for your  must handle them all on my own.  Gee, you'd never know...  
ALL SIZE HOMES  law.  valentine?  hope that you have not forgotten  
NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT· Discover how to work in America's Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Competitive wages + bonuses/  CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 98'·99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar.  Forge a check = YOU break the law. Use a fake drivers license =BAR breaks the law?  Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a custom color calendar for your sweetie. Same day turn­around. Any twelve month combi­ your favorite person in the sports department. I miss you so much and hope that I will get to see your face soon.  Hey, Mr. Studious-man. Hope you did well on your test... Actually, I justhope you woke up in time for it.  
Seasonal/year-round. For informa·  sand V·ball ct. washer/dryer.  Go Figure!  nation.  
tion, call: 517-324-3111 Ext. N55842  1628 Portage Av. 234-3831 273-0482  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  -THE COPY SHOP -LaFortune Student Center  Yeah, you need as many tips as you can get.  Sometimes 1 feel like Monica Lewinsky writing secret classifieds  
Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor  to thepresident.  
play. Students w/Nd-SMC 10 ­112  Just call me the big boss man.  

page 13

Tuesday, February 10, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NBA 
Jackson will leave, Jordan Inight follow 

Associated Press 
DEERFIELD. Ill. 

Phil Jackson's coaching career with the Chicago Bulls -one that includes five championships -is nearing an end. It's probably down to mere months. 
"At the end of the year, it's going to be hard to say good­bye. It's going to be really tough," Jackson said Monday. 
After he signed a new one­year contract last summer, management said it would be .Jackson's last as the team looks to rebuild for the future. 
But hold on. There's another 

consideration: the Michael fac­
tor. 
Michael Jordan said for 

about the one millionth time 
during All-Star weekend, 
where he won the game's MVP 
Award, that if Jackson doesn't 
return. he won't either. 
His reaffirmation came after 

general manager Jerry Krause 
said he wants Jordan back 
next season but he'll have to 
play for a new coach, sound­
ing again like the Bulls can't 
wait to usher Jackson out the 
door. 
"There is no other option. 

We've made an agreement 
that that's what is going on 
and that is the direction we 
are going as a basketball 
team," said Jackson, who's 
had his differences with 
Krause. 
''I'm not saying our beds are 

made but they are laid out and 
ready to go. Early in training 
camp I sat down with .Jerry 
Krause and Jerry Heinsdorf 
and we expressly went over 
this again and said this is our 
swan song as a team." 
But Jackson then added: 

"Michael has a tremendous 
sway in this game as we all see from the effect he had in the All-Star game. Michael is the only one who could change it." 
Make management change their minds and bring Jackson back, maybe to guarantee Jordan's return as well? 
"That's not going to hap­pen," Jackson said. "I think the amount of intensity we've had over the last two seasons, the directionswe've changed and the divergent paths that both Jerry and I have gone on just spelled the fact that the relationship had reached its course. 
"It's time for him to do what 
he wants to do in his manage­
ment of this organization and 
it's time for me to move on 
wherever !have to go. 
"~1ichael can throw a mon­
key wrench into things but 
that's their decision and that's 
the way we have to look at it. 
... We can talk about it here in 
February but that's a different 
story in June and .July when 
things come out." 
Jackson said Jordan's strong 
backing of him as the only 
coach he will play for has been 
uncomfortable at times. 
"It makes me feel like I am 
standing in the way of him 
continuing his career. Some of 
it does. The other thing is that 
the organization is a bit to 
fault in it, too,' Jackson said. 
Jordan reiterated his stance 
Sunday and said he perceives 
Jackson's status to be based 
on his problems with Krause. 
"l think it's more of a per­
sonality conflict," Jordan said. 
"His success as a coach is 
impeccable and I don't think 
that can be questioned, but I 
think it's more personal than 
anything." 
• ESPY AWARDS 

Tiger cleans up at awards show 
Associated Press 

NEWYOHK It was another night of hon­ors for Tiger Woods. 
Woods was the top winner at the sixth annual ESPY Awards show Monday night, taking home three ESPYs for excel­lence in sports performance, including the co-Male Athlete of the Year with Ken Griffey Jr. 
Woods, the PGA Tour 1997 player of the year, also won the Performer of the Year and the Showstopper of the Year for his victory at the Masters. 
"Last year was pretty amaz­ing. I could have been study­ing for finals and midterms, but I got my Masters instead,'' Woods said. Michael Jordan, who did not attend the show, was the .only other multiple winner, taking honors as top performer in the professional basketball and Dramatic Individual Performance for his 38-point, flu-ridden perfor­mance in Game 5 of the Finals against Utah. 
Jordan's college coach, Dean 
Smith, was honored with the 
Arthur Ashe Award for 
Courage. Smith, who became 
the winningest coach in col­
lege basketball history in 
March before retiring in 
October, received the award 
with six of his former players 
-Billy Cunningham, Doug 
Moe, Charlie Scott, Walter 
Davis, Brad Daugherty and 
James Worthy. 

Smith, visibly emotional at 
the sight of his former players 
on the stage and a tribute to 
his career on the screen, ini­
tially turned down the award 
because he said he wasn't as 
worthy as past winners. 

"I watched Jim Valvano 
fighting for his life when he 
got the award and he was still 
fighting to find a cure for his 
disease," Smith said. "I r.aw 

Tomorrow, Tuesday, February 10, 1998 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDGLS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are prhtate and confidential. 


KAT Photo 

Golfer Tiger Woods won three awards at last night's ESPY awards, including co-Male Athlete of the Year with Ken Griffey Jr. 
Muhammad Ali up here help­ing kids while he was fighting his disease." 
Smith agreed to accept the award after Ashe's widow, Jeannie, called and told him that her husband would be pleased with the committee's choice. Smith, a long-time supporter of the civil rights movement, helped integrate North Carolina during the1960s. 
"I want to thank people for pushing me to do what was right," 
Smith said. "Forty years ago, that was racial reconciliation. But there is still more work to be done." 
One of the more emotional 
moments of the show came when former Detroit Lions linebacker Reggie Brown accepted the award for best pro football player on behalf of Barry Sanders. 
Brown, who sustained a career-ending spinal cord injury the same day Sanders eclipsed the 2,000-yard rush­ing mark, walked on stage with a metal "halo" to a stand­ing ovation from the crowd at Radio City Music Hall. 
Other top awards went to Mia Hamm (Female Athlete of the Year), the Denver Broncos (Team of the Year), and Jim Leyland, manager of the· Florida Marlins (Coach/Manager of the Year). 


T 


Tuesday, February 24 • 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
nckets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. 
Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
Adult tickets also available at all -~ ticket centers including Orbit Music &L.S. Ayres. 
To charge tickets by phone, call 
219/272-7979 
To purchase online: http://www.ticketmaster.com 

M~f)
c._~ THE ARTS 

This program is supported by Arts Midwest, a regional 
partn~~h~~g=~~~~~~~~~~~~ :~~~c~;n~~~~~~it~~ 

· h f · · · The Observer/Jeff Tsu The Ins anced well agarnst the defendrng national champion Nittany Lions despite the eventual loss. 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 
said senior epeeist Carl Jackson. "But we weren't going to let the other teams take us down." 
The men's epee and foil squads were handed losses by Penn State only by 5-4 mar­gins. Carl Jackson's 3-0 mark against them was not enough to lead the Irish to victory, as Brian Stone and Dominic Guarnaschelli fenced well, but finished with 1-2 and 0-3 records against the Nittany Lions, respectively. 
Said Jackson, "We fenced strong against them and the losses were all about the pres­sure that Penn brought. We know we're good enough to be consistnnt, as long as we learn to take the pressure competi­tion like Penn brings." 
Stone came through on the second day of competition, amassing an 7-1 record against regional opponents Michigan, Michigan State, Air Foree, Wayne State, and Ohio State. 
A similar account of depth came from the men's foil team. Prior to the tournament, head coach Stephan Auriol commnnted, "[Sophomore] Chaz Hayes has been fencing consistent for us. But the key now is depth. We need to have three guys fencing at that level." 
Senior leader John Tejada answered that call this week­end, accounting for this team's only two wins against Penn, defeating Penn All-Americans Davi~ Lidow and Gang Lu. 
_TeJada and _squad captain Stephane Aunol stepped up ~he attack on Sunday, combin­111? for o?IY one l?ss. 
fhe NJttany Lwns held the sabre squad to a similar finish. Despite captain Luke LaValle's two wins against them, the l~ish still could not cage the Lwns. as th_ey swept the squad and the entire team. 
An All-American, LaValle continued to fence up to his title, turning in an 11-0 score the second day. Freshman Andrzej Bednarski dueled in similar fashion, going 10-1 on Sunday. 
The women foilists had a dif­ferent story against Penn State, but much like the men's squads, finished with a loss to them. With eight wins on the board against them, and four by an undefeated Sara Walsh, the Iris~ were onl~ able to tie the N1ttany LIOns. The tiebreaker, which tallied the amount of hits by each team, was won by Penn by five touches. 
This did not slow down the 

All-American as she went undefeated on' the weekend with four wins against th~ fifth-ranked women of Ohio State. 
Sophomore Magda Krol and the rest of the women's epeeists registered a similar fate to Penn. Krol who fin­ished Saturday u~defeated, tallied four wins against them. But once again, they failed to top the Lions. 
Third-man on the squad Nicole Mustilli went 2-2 against Penn and 7-9 on the day. "We knew it would be hard. but we gave [Penn State] a light." 
The tournament gives the Irish a finish of 25-1 for the men and 24-1 for the women with both squad's losses com~ ing to Penn. Despite the losses to Penn, the team was resilient against the rest of the teams. 
Pointed out Mustilli, "We all knew there were six other teams, and that Penn was not a pivotal battle for us. 
"Instead, we learned that they really aren't better than us, and that we can beat them." 
The individual tournaments ~ill give the Irish an opportu­mty to reduel with the Lions as they make a bid for th~ NCAA Championships. 
Said Jackson, "We know now that we can beat anyone who comes down that strip." 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Absent Leaf might be a loser with Mora, Colts 
Associated Press The Colts hold the first piek 
NEW YOHK 
Hyan Leaf wants the Indianapolis Colts to know he was having tests on his shoul­der when he failed to meet with the team during last weekend's NFL scouting combine in Indianapolis. 
"He'd have rather been meet­ing with the Colts than doing what he was doing," Leaf's agent, Leigh Steinberg, said Monday from New York, where he and Leaf were attending the ESPY Awards. 
Steinberg said Leaf spent three hours having an MHI on his right shoulder, a test requested by the Chicago Bears. Steinberg said that when Leaf told combine offi­cials he was supposed to meet with the Colts, he was told "physicals take precedence overmeetings." 
in April's NFL draft. They had met earlier with quarterback Peyton Manning of T<mnessee. "Sometimes the agent is involved in that kind of deci­sion," Colts coach Jim Mora said when Leaf failed to appoar. "Perhaps he had some­thing to do that extended into our meeting limo. 
"When you sot up an appoint­ment with him, and he's got a chance to be tlw No. 1 piek, and he just doesn't show, it's a little disappointing. More than a little disappointing, to be hon­est with you." 
Steinberg said Leaf was both­ered about the missed meeting but there was nothing he could do. 
"Jim Mora owes Hyan leaf a public apology," Steinberg said. 
"Hyan went to the combine looking forward to meeting with the Colts." 

Manning rumored to be a winner of award 
Associaced Press 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Tennessee quarterback Peyton Manning, who finished second in the lleisman Trophy voting,will be honored as the nation's outstanding amateur athlete of 1997, the Nashville Banner reported Monday. 
Manning will receive the Sullivan Award from the Amateur Athletic Union on Fob. 25 during the Tennessee­Florida basketball game in Knoxville, the newspaper reported, citing unidentified sources close to Manning. 
Dixie Keller, a spokeswoman for the AAU in Orlando, Fla.. would not confirm the report. Manning is a Sullivan finalist and the winner is to be announced next week. 
Bud Ford, Tennessee's sports information director, said ho didn't have any information about Manning winning the award. But he said Manning will be in Knoxville on Feb. 25 to receive the Banner's award as its Southeastern Conferene() player of the year. 
The Sullivan Award was established in 1930. It is named for James E. Sullivan, a founder and past president of the AAU. Athletes arc nominat­ed based on their athletie accomplishments, leadership and charaetor. 
Other finalists inelude Tennessee women's basketball star Charnique lloldsclaw, swimmer Chad Carvin, former Florida State baseball player 
J.D. Drew, former Wakf) Forest basketball player Tim Duncan. wrestler Les Gulches, South Carolina softball player Trinity .Johnson, disability sports par­ticipant Linda Mastandrea, swimmer Jenny Thompson and gymnast Blaine Wilson. 
Show that you care about the earth's future. Please recycle The Observer. 

~\\OR(/irf 

Bench PreM Comoetition 
~aturday, february 14, 1998 
10:00 AH 
Joyce Center fieldhou~e A Benefit for the ~outh Bend Center for the HomeleM 
Individual -.$6 fee* 
(Weight classes: under140, 141-150, 151-160, 161-170, 171­
185, 186-200, 201-215, 216 & over) 
lnterhall T earn~ -.$15 fee Women·~: lnterhall Team~-.$30 fee* 
* fee Include~ 1-~hlrt. Weigh-In~ for all men will be between 1:00pm-6:00pm, on friday, february 13, 1998, In the Rockne ~emorial men·~ locker room. 

African American & Hispanic Students 
Summer Leadership Internships available: 
Stop by the Office for Multicultural Student Affairs or the Center for Social Concerns for an application. 
Application Deadline: February 13th (Friday) 
Opportunities available in: South Bend (both) Chicago (both) (Detroit) (African American) San Diego (Hispanic) Lexington (Hispanic) 
• 
Ten weeks of leadership and service work sponsored by the Black Alumni and Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame. 

• 
Academic work and experience earning 3 elective credits in Theology. 


ti:ti 
C IE If T l.. '0 • 
SOCIAL

• $2300.00 Tuition Scholarship CONCERNS 
----~~------------------_j 
Tuesday, February 10, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll •NFl 
Carolina, Duke remain at No. I VVoodson,Greenetoo 
Associated Press 
North Carolina and Duke, which share one of college basketball's greatest rivalries, continued sharing the No. 1 spot in the AP poll. 
They met last week in a 1­vs.-2 showdown and North Carolina's 97-73 victory moved the Tar Heels back into the top spot Monday. 
Duke was No. 1 for two weeks before its loss to Michigan opened the way for North Carolina to take the top spot for five weeks. When the Tar Heels lost to Maryland, Duke moved back into No. 1 for three weeks, until this lat­est switch. 
North Carolina (24-1), which followed the win over Duke with a 107-100 double-over­time victory over Georgia Tech, received 68 of 70 first­place votes and 1, 7 48 points from the national media panel. 
Duke (21-2), which rebound­ed from the loss with a 65-49 victory over North Carolina State on Sunday, had 1,624 paints, 16 more than Arizona (21-3), which had the other first-place votes. 
The defending national champion Wildcats are the 
only other No. 1 team this sea­son. Arizona, which held the spot in the preseason poll and the first two of the regular season, switched places with Kansas this week. Arizona has the nation's longest current winning streak, 14 games. 
Utah held fifth, while Connecticut moved up one spot to sixth, its highest rank­ing of the season. Kentucky moved up one place to seventh and Purdue jumped two spots to No. 8. UCLA, which was sixth last week, dropped to nimh following its loss to Oregon. 
Princeton was 10th, its first Top Ten ranking in over 30 years. The Tigers held the same spot in the poll released Dec. 12, 1967. 
New Mexico led the Second Ten and was followed by Arkansas, Michigan State, Stanford; South Carolina, West Virginia, George Washington, Mississippi, Cincinnati and Massachusetts. 
The last five teams were Michigan, Texas Christian, Syracuse, Maryland and Rhode Island. 
George Washington, which won two games last week to reach the 20-win mark, made the week's biggest jump, from 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
IF YOU THINK YOU MAY BE INSANE, THE FIRST 
STEP IS ADMITTING THE PROBLEM. THE SECOND STEP IS TO 
JOIN SUB. 
SO•••FOLLOW THESE SIMPLE INSTRUCTIONS: 
1. YODEL LIKE ASWEDISH ZYGOTE 2.PICK UP AN APPLICATION IN THE SUB 
OFFICE (201 LAFUN)

3. FILL IT OUT (DUH) 4.GO TO BRIDGET'S (OOPS! NEVERMIND!) 
5. RETURN APPLICATION TO SUB BY FEB 20 
WHY SUB? 
1. HEY, BRIDGET'S IS CLOSED -WHAT ELSE CAN YOU DO TO ENTERTAIN YOURSELF? 2.WE DON'T MAKE YOU SlEEP WITH INTERNS 3.HOT CHICKS ABOUND 4.SPICE 
22nd to No. 17. 

Stanford, which lost three of four after opening the season 18-0, had the week's biggest fall, from No. 9 to 14th. The Cardinal, who lost 76-56 at Connecticut on Saturday, had been ranked in the Top Ten for the past eight weeks, including a school-record rise to No.4. 
Iowa and Xavier dropped from the poll, replaced by Texas Christian and Rhode Island, both of which had been ranked earlier in the season. 
Iowa (16-7) split its two games last week, but has lost five of six, dropping from 10th to 16th to 24th and then out of the poll. 
Xavier (15-6), which split its two games last week and was 21st last week, is out of the rankings for the first time this season. The Musketeers were 1Oth in the preseason poll and got as high as No.7. 
TCU (20-4), which has won nine straight games, was ranked for two weeks before falling out six weeks ago. 
Rhode Island i17-5), which has won four in a row after dropping three of four, is in the poll for the 1Oth time this season, never getting higher than No. 20. 

FOR MORE DIRT,
CALL 1-7757 
e 
SUB: 

expensive for 49ers 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA 

Rod Woodson and Kevin Greene, former Pro Bowlers who helped the San Francisco 49ers defense attain a No. 1 ranking last season, were waived Monday in a dramatic cost-cutting move. 
The 49ers gained $5.9 million in salary cap space by releasing the two, both of whom starred elsewhere and had productive campaigns for San Francisco in their only season with the team. 
"Even though we anticipate an increase to the salary cap, it won't be enough to allow us to keep Rod and Kevin at their cur­rent salaries," general manager Dwight Clark said in a state­ment. 
Clark left the door open for the possible return of the play­ers, though it would be at lower pay. 
"We would like to have both players back and will continue to work with their agents, Eugene Parker and David Dunn, respectively, to see if we can agree on something down the line," Clark said. 
Parker and Dunn did not immediately return phone calls seeking comment on the play­ers' release or their future plans. 
Woodson, a seven-time Pro Bowler in 10 seasons with Pittsburgh and a member of the NFL's 75th anniversary team, joined San Francisco prior to last season as a free agent. Greene also joined the 49ers as a free agent after being released by Carolina at the end of a bitter contract dispute. 
Greene finished with 10.5 sacks as a situational pass-rush­er after leading the league with 14 1/2 sacks while with the Panthers in 1996. 
Woodson had three intercep­tions as a starting cornerback for the 49ers but struggled in his last game for San Francisco, a loss to the Green Bay Packers in the NFC championship game. The 
Packers successfully attacked San Francisco's secondary, using quick slants and turning them into big plays by breaking tackles. 
The 49ers have been in administrative disarray as team owners 
Eddie DeBartolo and his sister, Denise Debartolo York, struggle over control of the franchise. The feud has thrown the team's plans for a new $525 million stadium-mall project into doubt. 
But the releases of Woodson and Greene were not entirely unexpected. San Francisco is anxious to gain cap room so they can try to re-sign defensive tackle Dana Stubblefield, the defensive player of the year who becomes eligible for free agency later this week. 
The 49ers also hope to retain fullback William Floyd, who like Stubblefield is eligible for free agency. At the same time, the 49ers gained flexibility in the free agent market and may go shopping for offensive line help and more overall team speed. 

FREAK POSITIONS: 
EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS: 
BOARD MANAGER DIRECTOR OF PROGRAMMING 
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS& RELATIONS DIRECTOR OF CREATIVITY &ADVERTISING CHIEF CONTROLLER 
PROGRAMMERS FOR: ANTOSTAL CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT 
CONCERTS COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL CULTURAL ARTS IDEAS &ISSUES MOVIES SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAl SERVICES SPECIAL EVENTS 
ASSISTANT CONTROLLERS GRAPHIC DESIGNERS 
WHAT YOUR MAMA WARNED YOU ABOUT COMMUNICATIONS AND RELATIONS ASSISTANTS 
-. 
• MEN's SWIMMING 


MATT YUNG tively, gave the ball a mighty shove. Sophomore SportS Writer Ray Fitzpatrick turned on the juice and won two events, 100-freestyle (47.42) and the 200­
The St. Bonaventure Bonnies strolled into freestyle (1:43.22) against Bonaventure's Notre Dame on Friday afternoon and enjoyed speedy Kelly. the sights of campus. As they crept about cam­It is said to be lonely at the top, and Irish pus, their mouths gaped at the beauty of our diver Herb Huesman surely felt that way as he school. competed against himself and shot for perfec­
The next day, their jaws gaped at the beauty tion in his one-and three-meter diving wins. and speed of our swimmers and divers. Other Irish winners were Steele Whowell in the 
Saturday, the Irish tallied the lucky seventh 1DO-breaststroke, Scott Zumbach in the 200­on their wonderful win streak and improved butterfly, Rob Fetter in the 50-freestyle, Dan their season record to 10-1. Szilier in the 200-breaststroke, and John 
The win over the Bonnies gave Notre Dame its Lubker in the 50-freestyle. first I 0-win season since 1993, and a win over After the meet, freshman butterflyer and Wisconsin-Milwaukee this Saturday would give freestyler Scott Koziar said, "We beat them the team its best finish since going 12-1 in pretty badly, we've done well all season and I 1990. think we'll do well at the Big East too." 
Notre Dame got out to a quick lead, winning Koziar, a Wisconsin native, is hungry for eight of the first nine events. The 400-medley another win at Wisconsin-Milwaukee this relay started the proverbial ball in motion, and Saturday, in the team's final dual before the first, second, and third place finishes by James ever important Big East Championships in Scott-Browne, Hyan Verlin, Sean Casey, respec-Pittsburgh. 
GW Semester ~n Washington 
An llndergrilduate Progrilm in Political Milnilgement 
Spring, Sutntncr, and Fall Sessions 
Make Connections to Launch YOUR CAREER 
• 
Learn From and Network Among "Washington Insiders" 

• 
Produce Radio and TV Advertisements in Campaign Simulations 

• 
Compete as Consultina Groups on Strategic Lobbying Plans 

• 
Live 3 blocks from the White House and Monuments 

• 
GW's central location can put you on Capital Hill or the K Street corridor of lobbyists & Interest groups in minutes. 



The GraJuate Sd10ol of Political Management 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 10, 1998 
She will definitely improve her national ranking with this
Netters 
showing." 
continued from page 20 

terfinals before losing to the University of San Diego's Zuzana Lesenarova 6-2, 4-6, 6­
0. Lesenarova is currently the 11th-ranked player in the country. Hall had an impres­sive second round victory against the nation's third ranked player Agnes Muzamel from Mississippi. 
Hall was ranked 25th in the country prior to this tourna­ment and has a 14-6 record so far this year. She received an at-large berth in the tourna­ment based on her strong sea­son and national reputation. 
Coach Jay Louderback was pleased with Hall's perfor­mance. "Jennifer had a very good tournament. She has proven early in the season that she is one of the country's best. 
Dasso had previously won the Midwest regionals, bnating II all in throe sets in order to advance to the nationals. She lost a hard fought thren set battle in the first round this past weekend to eventual final­ist Lauren Nikolaus from William and Mary 6-4, l-6, 6­
3. Nikolaus lost in the finals to Stanford's Julie Scott 6-l, 7-6. 
"Michelle played very well especially considering it was her first national competition as a collegian. She's a great competitor and I expect her to continue to improve through­out the spring," stated Loudorback. 
The 15th ranked Irish resume play this wHnkend when they host 12th-ranked Tennessee along with Boston College and Ohio State at the Eck tennis pavilion. 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

need to stay disciplined and keep the ball away from his forehand." 
If Kauffman doesn't cast a shadow on the Irish, Marcus Flaitt may be the one who docs. 
Described by Bayliss as tall and athletic, the Kentucky power house boasts a serve of around 125 mph. 
But the Irish know exactly what is at stake-tradition. 
"They're going to be fired up to play," Pietrowski said. "But so are we. We don't want to be the fir;?t to lose to Kentucky at home. 


Most Affordable Student Housina 
Taking Applications for the '98,'99 School Year and May,August Summer Rentals. 
Plantyourself somewhere 
new next summer! 
Study Abroad Everywhere under the Sun 

INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS 
232 Ha~· State Rd., 5th Floor Boston, MA, 02215 617/353-9888 E-Mail • ahro:ad@hu.cdu Visit our web pa~e! • http://www.hu.edu/:ahro:ad 


WEDNESDAY FEB 11TH 
LAFORT. BALLROOM SPM 
BID FOR A DATE WITH A BOXER 
renamed the BU Invitational. 

STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS IB -R-lJ N ·a ,-s 

Attention All Students 


PIZZA NORTH 
FREE PLAY STATION 

US 31 NORTH 273-3890 
RUN-OFF ELECTION: 
Hours: 
Grand Prize Raffle!!! 

Delivery 
'Till1 AM Sun-Thurs
273-3890 
'Till 2 AM Fri

Lunch and 
and SatRegular Hours Lunch 11-2 

On Tuesdays and Thursdays 
A $12.00Piz.m With Any Toppings For Only $7.00 
1273-3890 
IL IISTILL THE BEST" 
------------------.. ---------·-= ---=~--------~7-, ----·= ---­
---~---­
-----~-----­

Tuesday, February 10, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 
Dhadphale awarded by CCHA 
Special to The Observer 
NOTRE DAME, Ind. 

University of Notre Dame junior left wing Aniket Dhadphale {Marquette, Mich.) has been named the Central Collegiate Hockey Association offensive player of the week, as announced today by the CCHA office. 
Dhadphale is coming off a five-point weekend that included three goals and two assists. He scored the first goal of the game in Friday's 1­1 home tie with Bowling Green before scoring twice, once on the power play, and adding two assists for a career-best four points in Saturday's 7-1 home win over Ferris State. 
Three Notre Dame players have been honored by the CCHA this season. Senior goal­tender Matt Eisler was the CCIIA defensive player of the week (Oct. 19), after totaling 63 saves and allowing just four goals in the sweep at St. 
Cloud State (4-3, 4-1). 
Senior center Steve Noble was named the CCHA offensive player of the week (Dec. 29) after scoring the first goal and assisting on three others in a 5-1 win over Brown at the University of Minnesota Mariucci Classic. Dhadphale is Notre Dame's second-leading scorer with 27 points and leads the team in goals (20) power-play goals (9) and shooting percentage (20.6 per­cent). 
His 20 goals rank fourth in the CCHA, behind Michigan senior Bill Muckalt (26). Michigan State senior Sean Berens (23) and MSU junior Mike York (21). Muckalt leads the CCHA with 11 power-play goals, followed by Dhadphale, York and Berens with nine each. 
Dhadphale has scored the first goal of six games this sea­son, tied with Michigan's Bobby Hayes and Ohio State's Eric Meloche for second in the CCHA behind York's seven. 

After enduring a sophomore 
slump that saw him score just 
five goals on 109 shots (4.6 
percent}, Dhadphale has 
racked up four times the num­
ber of goals he scored last sea­
son. He is averaging one goal 
per every 4.9 shots this sea­
son, compared to one goal per 
every 21.8 shots in 1996-97. 

sent the second-highest season 
total by a Notre Dame player 
in the last six seasons, trailing 
only Tim Harberts' 21 scores 
in 1994-95. Lou Zadra lit the 
lamp 24 times in both 1990-91 
and '91-'92. Dhadphale's nine 
power-play goals equal the 
third-most by an Irish player 
in the 1990s, trailing only 
Harberts (13, 1994-95) and 
Zadra (11, 1991-92). 

Should Dhadphale score 
another power-play goal this 
season, he would move into a 
tie with current Irish coach 
Dave Poulin for ninth on the 
Irish single season PPG list. 
FOR 

A 

-~---~---~--­
page 17 
.. 
• CoLLEGE HocKEY 
BU captures Beanpot 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
For the fourth consecutive season, Boston University showed it has the city's best col­lege hockey team. 
The Terriers could achieve that on April 2 and 4 when the NCM Final Four will be played at the same FleetCenter rink where, on Monday night, they wrapped up another Beanpot title. 
They beat Harvard 2-1 on Nick Gillis' power-play goal at 
5:51 of overtime, making the six seniors on the team the first group to win the tournament in all four of their seasons. 
But the last time BU (20-4-2) won the national title, those six were freshmen. 
"It's a big win," senior Peter Donatelli said, "But nothing is more important to this team than winning the NCM." 
Now, though, the Terriers are enjoying their latest win in the tournament featuring the city's four top hockey colleges -a tournament that could be 

• 
•
~~ Winte 
NAGANO 
COVERING THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN
1 9 9 8 


ICS
Q~O NAGANO, jAPAN 

Tuesday, February I 0, 1998 page 18 
• OlYMPIC UPDATES 
U.S. men's curling falls to 0-2 in round-robin 
Associated Press 
•LUGE 

Hackl captures third straight gold 

KAHUIZAWA, Japan 
The U.S. men's curling team, which talked confidently of a medal before the Olympics began. lost 11-3 to Canada and fell to 0-2 in round-robin play. 
The six teams will play each other once, with the top four qualifying for the finals as curling made its debut as an Olympic medal sport. It was a demonstration sport six times previously. 
The U.S. team, composed mostly of members of captain Tim Somerville's team from Superior, Wis., fell behind 3-0 in the first end-or inning-on Tuesday (Monday night EST) and trailed the 24­time Canadian world champions 5-1 in the third end. Most matches run 10 ends. 
The Americans opened with a 6-2 loss to defending world champion Sweden on Monday, despite leading 2-1 late in the match. 
In other men's matches Tuesday, Switzerland improved to 2-0 by defeating Britain 10-4, Norway beat Germany 7-5, and Japan beat Sweden, 6-5, in overtime. 
The U.S. women, who went 0-2 on Monday, were scheduled to play twice on Tuesday. 
Canada has won 24 of the 39 men's world championships, including 11 of the last 16. although Sweden won last year. Canada also has won four of the last five women's titles. 
Snow forces delay of women's super-G 
Associated Press 
IIAKUBA. Japan 
Two days and at least two feet of snow later, Alpine racing finally began at the Olympics, with the first run in the slalom portion of the men's combined event. 
But about 8 inches of fresh snow overnight forced postponement of the women's super-G. meaning no Alpine medal will be awarded until at least Wednesday (Tuesday night EST). 
There was no immediate word on rescheduling the super-G. in which Picabo Street will make her Nagano Olympic debut. 
"You want snow because it's a winter event, but it's like, 'WE'VE GOT ENOUGH NOW, THANK YOU,"' Street said, cupping her hands around her mouth and shout­ing into the driving snow. 
''I'm just waiting anxiously out here, like everybody else," Street said. "It's hard, .rou know. It's a double-edged sword. 
The snow has caused havoc for the Alpine schedule. which was supposed to begin Sunday with the men's downhill. That race has been reset for Wednesday (Tuesday night EST). 
Associated Press 
NAGANO, Japan Have patience, Armin. Your time is coming. 
When Armin Zoeggeler sat down in the middle seat to answer questions about his silver-medal performance in men's luge Monday, the 24-year-old Italian was told that he was in the seat reserved for the Olympic champion. 
The red-faced Zo~ggeler, the reigning World Cup champion and a rising star in the sport, quickly moved over and made way for Georg Hackl of Germany, who had just won gold for the third straight time. 
"This is awesome!" said Hackl, who phoned his home in the Bavarian Alps after his final run to share the good news with his family and girlfriend. 
The Olympics have become Hackl's winter playground over the last decade. Since he madehis mark in singles at Calgary in 1988 with a silver, the beer­drinking, fun-loving soldier has been unbeatable. 
The 5-8, 180-pound Hackl. who loves to play mind games with his rivals about as much as he loves his sausage, left the rest of the field of 32 sliders in his icy wake from start to finish. He won by a daunting half-second, which means Zoeggeler and everybody else hoping to replace Hackl at the top of the Olympic podium will have to hope that his health forces him to retire before the Salt Lake City Games in 2002. 
Hackl, who has had back problems in recent years, indicated that was very possible. 
Maybe. 
''I'm not sick or ill, but I'm 31 years old. This was different when I was 20. We all grow older. Look at yourself," Hackl said with a laugh. "This is the denied. Although he was only fourth on thethird gold medal, and that is something 

Hackl said his neon feet had nothing World Cup circuit this year, there wasunique in luge." to do with his fantastic finish. an easy explanation for his stunning
Hackl became just the sixth Winter "The secret this week was to drive Olympic performances. 

Olympian to win the same event three well, lie flat on my sled, to have a fast ''I'm preparing years and years forconsecutive times, but this triumph was sled and fast wax -secret wax," said one big event," said Hackl, who could not without controversy. 

Hackl, who plans to be around next be seen moments later rushing to a busAfter he broke the track record on his year when the World Championships with a sausage sandwich clenched infirst run of the competition while wear­come to his home track in Konigssee. his teeth. 
ing a brand new pair of special, aero­Hackl was fastest on each of the four Only one man has beaten Hackl in thedynamic yellow booties, the United runs and was the model of consistency: Winter Olympics, and he finished withStates and Canada had protested, say­49.619 seconds, 49.473, 49.614, and bronze this time. to medal when youing the gear wasn't made available to 49.630 for an aggregate of 3 minutes, come to the Olympics," Suckow said. 

the rest of the field. The protest was 18.436 seconds. 

• SNOWBOARDING 

U.S. snowboarders crash and burn 
Associated Press 
YAMANOUCI-11, Japan 
One by one, U.S. snowboarders picked themselves up off the eourse, their high hopes for medals wiped out. Blame it on the "death cookies." 
The quest for America's first medal of the Nagano Olympics collapsed when all four U.S. women crashed during the first run of the giant slalom Tuesday (Monday night EST). The only one who qualified for the second run finished 12th. 
While thH Americans faltered, French favorite Karine Ruby mas~ tered both runs through steady snow· fall to win the first Olympic gold medal in women's snowboarding in a combined time of 2 minutes, 17.34 seconds. 
Germany's Heidi Renoth took the sil~ ver in 2:19.17 and Austria's Brigitte Koeck got the bronze in 2:19.42. 
The Americans couldn't cope with the difficult weather and snow condi­tions and questioned whether the race should have been run at all. "It's a race of survival," said Rosey Fletcher, 
_,.MEDALS 
~TABLE 
1998 Nagano Winter Olympics 
Through Monday, Feb. 9 Through Four Medals 
Country  G  s  B Total  
Germany  1  1  2  4  
Russia  2  1  0  3  
Italy  0  2  1  3  
Norway  0  1  2  3  
Netherlands  1  1  0  2  
Bulgaria  1  0  0  1  
Switzerland  0  0  1  1  

G-Gold, S-Silver, 8-Bronze 

the first of the Americans to wipe out 
on the Mount Yakebitai course. 
"There's like really hard death cook­
ies ....;.. ice chunks. It's really inconsis­
tent. They'Jl be powder, ice and death 
cookies. Its really difficult." 
Asked if the race should have been 
run, Fletcher said: "I'mnot sure. Ijust 
think for a high-caliber race like this, 
the snow conditions should be top." 
Fletcher's fall set the tone as Betsy 
Shaw, Lisa Kosglow and Sondra Van 
Ert all failed to stay upright. 
Fletcher and Kosglow didn't finish, 
and Shaw was disqualified for missing 
a gate. Van Ert recovered after her 
fall and completed the race but was in 
16th place, 8.56 seconds behind Ruby. 
Van Ert finished 12th in 2:26.56. 
"It's not a stellar day for us," Kosglow said. "We all had high hopes. ·All four of us could have been on the 
podium." 
It's a terrible showcase for the 
sport," she said. ''The women are not 
this bad." Ruby, winner of seven of 
eight World Cup races this season, led 
by almost two seconds after the first 
run. Visibility deteriorated on the sec­
ond run as the snowfall increased, but Ruby rode a clean, conservative run to hold onto the lead. 
The race had been postponed Monday (Sunday night EST) for 24 hours due to heavy snow and fog. The conditions improved slightly but the race was still affected by steady snow­fall and limited visibility. 
The Americans said they were not prepared for the fast, hard-packed snow. 
"They watered down the course a couple of days ago," Kosglow said. "That's the way to treat the course, but none of us have ever been on con­ditions like this before. Usually when the weather's like this, we race in powder. 
"When I came out of the gate, I went, 'Oh, my God.' It felt like my feet weren't connected to the board." 
Shaw said she, too, "was completely taken by surprise at what was under my feet. Everywhere else, it's ego snow, perfectly packed powder. I did­n't feel like my feet were underneath me. I just felt like I was hanging on for dear life the whole way down." 
------~----~-~ 

Tuesday, February 10, 1998 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer • TODAY 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries-It's a fabulous time to get out and shake your thing. You're feeling extra bubbly today, so get your gre­garious self out on the dance floor. You will entice a host of dazzling partners. 
Taurus -What more could you ask in life but time to do whatever you please? Make that dream a reality today and please yourself. You'll be glad you did, and you might even meet a special someone. 

Gemini -Indulge your airyMIKE PETERS 
nature today by perusing for­
page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
Libra -Feeling a little 
weary Libra? You don't have 
to run around like a chicken 
without a head to get things 
done you know. Take time to 
breathe, and smile, and oth­
ers will respond much more ·positively to you. 
Scorpio -There's nothing 
wrong with you that an over­
sized lollipop and some good 
tunes wouldn't fix. It's not the 
best time to go out, so make 
the most of your misery and 
stay home with videos. 
Sagittarius -Got a case of 
the Monday blues Sag? Try 
not to freak out: remember 
that friends are there to lend 
a hand. Believe it or not, 
you'll achieve more than you 
ever thought possible today. 
Capricorn -Why not spoil 
yourself today Capricorn? 
After all, it's been a long, 
hard haul lately. Take your 
sweetie out for a night on the 
town. Remember, a little 
romance can go a long, long 
way. 
Aquarius-There's no one 
but you to hold you back 
today Aquarius. So take on 
the world, and the world will 
laugh with you. A great time 
for meeting cool friends and 
influencing famous people. 
Pisces -After a hard day of 
work, make yourself a marti­
ni and prepare for an adven­
turous evening. Be sure to 
dress up especially sharp: an 
unexpected turn of events will 
take you on an exciting jour­
ney. 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
t!ROCOt>tt.ES OF "THE: AMAZON BASIN AR.6 V\RTU~~t..~ lNVIS\~lE ~~ ~ATE:R I 
DILBERT 
'Tl15t,J FC.OAT Sl£.SAli'-~ (f.-1 TI-l6 BASIN C<JAIT'IN<at FOR SOMi t.JNSLlSP6CitNC;, VICTIM To COME NEAR ,  eign arts. Take your pick: from belly dancing to expres­sionist paintings, a world of sheer delights awaits you. Be  
wary of conflict with family  
members this evening.  
Cancer - Make way for  
Cancer, you are ready to roll  
with the punches. You will  
overcome adversaries and  
have a terrific time doing it.  
Just try not to step on too  
many toes along the way.  
Leo ­ What have you been  
up to lately naughty Leo?  
Looks like you've been stick­ 
SCOTT ADAMS  ing your fingers in the cookie  


jar again; fortunately for you it's nothing too serious. Just stop cheating at card games will you? 
Virgo -Take a break from work Virgo, and think about the more fun side of your future. You've been neglect­ing your beloveds lately, so make time for some extra communication. All will work out well in the end. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Unposed photo 7 Streisand, in 
fanzines 11 Cpl.'s superior 14 Tom, Dick or 
Harry 15 Year in Henry l's 
reign 16 Court 17 Military meal 
manager 19 Set off 20 Used a sauna 21 What "bathy-" 
means 23 Homeboys' 
"fraternity" 24 Consulate's kin 25 Somewhat firm 28 Track 
tournaments 
29 Woolen cloth 30 Homes of the rich and famous 33 Beauty 
preceder? 34 Epoch 35 Hieroglyphic 
stone locale 40 Musical counterpoint 44 Prison guard, in slang 45 Air shafts for 
mines 
46 Lewd 
48 Sweep with 
binoculars 
49 Decapitates 
50 Hearty? 
54 Clockmaker 
Terry 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
55 Embroidery style 57 Kind of camera: Abbr. 58 Margarita garnish 59 Author Welty &O Grab a bite &1 "Waiting for the Robert-" 62 Let live 
DOWN 
1 Rotating engine parts 2 Over 3Amex alternative 4 Pharmacist's concerns 5 Coffee choice 6 Diplomat's quest 7 Mercedes competitor a University environment 
31 River to 
9 Ancient galleys 
Donegal Bay 
10 Auxiliary wager 
32 Hurdles for srs. 
47 Italian's word of
11 Diner entree 
36 Behold, to Pilate approval
12Aietal. 
37 Something 51 "Ripley's
13 Hungarian wine 
cloying Believe­
18 Nosed (out) 
Not!"
38 Plant runner (baby's game) 
22 --cake 
39 Absolutely 


• 

52 4,047 square meters 
53 Neighbor of Nigeria 
56 Bishop's jurisdiction

fabulous25"Supposethey Answers to any three clues in this puzzle gave~-..." 40 Platters 

are available by touch-tone phone: 26 Sign of The 41 Covers 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Times? completely Annual subscriptions are available for the 

42 Nascent best of Sunday crosswords from the last accompaniment company 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
RoLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER 
GRAND OPENING & DEDICATION 


THE OFFICE OF RECREATIONAL SPORTS INVITES You To VlSlJ THE RoLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER 
.....  ...:X~~~{:·,,.,.,.,.,  
NEw HoME FoR REcSPoRTS! •  RoLLER IYot:'i<Ev'  ....  
SusPENDED JoGGINS I WALKING TRACK •  5,000 so. FT. oF FITNEsS  

BASKETBALL, VoLLEYBALL & BADMINTON • IRISHEALTH REsouRcE CENTER DANCE, AEROBICS & MARTIAL ARTS • INDOOR SoccER 
THE RSRC WILL OPEN FOR RECREATIONAL UsE AT 4:00PM 

BuiLDING HouRs: MoNDAY-fRIDAY 6:30AM -11 :00PM, SATURDAY 9:00AM -11 :00PM, SuNDAY 12:00PM -11 :00PM 
. 
:;. . 

-j 

SPORTS 
page 20 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Irish shine in showcase of top tennis players in nation 
By SHANNON RYAN Pietrowski said. "This time we Now that the duo Sports Writer wanted revenge." is beginning to pick Patterson and Pietrowski lost up momentum, opti­
Don't let the word consolation a tough match in Thursday's mism is plentiful. fool you. Three select men's first round to sixth-ranked "This is a ray of tennis players were in no need Pepperdine's Kelly Gullet and hope that they're of comforting over the weekend Robert Lindstedt, 6-7, 7-6. 6-3. coming back as a as llwy proved themselves wor­Although Pietrowski played a dominant college thy among the best in the con­fairly solid game, Patterson's doubles team," solation rounds of the H.olex serve suffered in the difficult Bayliss said. National Championships. draw. Clear skies were 
The fourth-seeded duo of In play on Friday, the pair ral­also shining above 

... Brian Patterson and Jakub lied with vengeance to gain a Irish sophomore Pietrowski won the doubles pair of wins. Patterson picked Sachire in Dallas. Consolation Championship up his game while Pietrowski The 6-foot-6 power match hosted by SMU, while continued his dominating play. server had a solid Hyan Sachire advanced to the They defeated Lander's Frank S h0 Wing • S pJi tting semi-finals in the singles brack­Potthoff and Laio Teixeira 6-3, his matches and et of the consolations. 7-6 and San Diego State's advancing to the 
"It was a tough tournament," Alexander Waske and Frank semi-finals. It was very impressive." loss," Bayliss said. "not in the said coach Bob Bayliss. "But we Morgan 6-2, 7-5. "I was happy to play well," In the semi-finals, Sachire way we played. I think we left put on a good showing." "I was excited to see Jakub Sachire said. "It was a great faced VCU's Daniel Anderson, Dallas on an upbeat note." 
The Holex games consisted of and Brian playing back at this experience. All the top players last year's NCAA and ITA All­The Irish will try to continue the top 32 singles players and level," Bayliss said of the Irish in the country were there." American champ, whom he this tune as they host rival Top top 16 doubles players in the pair ranked fifth nationally. Sachire proved he too was the defeated twice before. 10 Kentucky Wednesday at 3:30 nation. "They were sharp in all areas cream of the crop, especially in However, Sachire, slow on his p.m. 
"Every match is at an All­[against Duke]. It was some of Friday's consolation rounds. feet due to six blisters, was "It's going to be war," Saehire American level." Bayliss said. the best tennis I've seen them After losing to the fourth­pushed around the court by said. "Kentucky has never beat­
"It's like an all-star basketball play in doubles." seeded, fourth-nationally Anderson, falling 4-6, 7-6, 6-1. en Notre Dame at home. We game." Besting the powerful serve of ranked Vince Allegre of UCLA, But Sachire did not offer excus-know it and they know it." The dynamic duo which lately Duke's Root and stifling Wile's 6-4, 4-6, 6-4, Sachire powered However, this may be the year
es. has been fizzling seemed to gain all-court game was not only a past his competitors the follow­" [The feet problems! didn't for Kentucky to win the battle. 
baek its po.p in Dalias. definite confidence-builder, but ing day. He easily defeated determine the match," Sachire Cedric Kauffman. their No. 1 Patterson and Pietrowski it also provided them with con­Tulsa's Nenad Toroman, the said. "He raised his level, and I player, is ranked fifth in the defeated Top 10 Duke pair Doug viction in their ability. WAC Holex Champion, 6-2, 6-1, give him credit. I lost and I nation for singles. 
Hoot and Jordan Wile, 6-1. 6-2. "I think we're finally starting then breezed by Auburn's Lee should have won." "lie's a real spectator's to beeome the Consolation to click again." Pietrowski said. Pearson, 6-2. 6-3. However, not one of the Irish delight," Bayliss said of the Champions. "We're getting back to the qual­"That was about as well as is sulking after the rigorous threatening Kauffman. "We "They beat us at the Clay ity of play we had in the fall and I've ever seen him play," Bayliss four-day tournament. Courts tournament in the fall," last year." said. "He simply overpowered. "I was disappointed in our see TENNIS I page 16 
• fENCING
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Fencers edged out by Lions 
see NETTEitS J page 16 

By ANTHONY BIANCO  posted a 17-0 and 19-1 mark,  picked up right where they  
Sports Writer  respectively, against the num­ had left off in competitions  
ber one Lions.  past, easily defeating the other  
The  Notre  Dame  fencing  Despite the close losses to  nine teams in the home tour- 
team finished the dual  meet  Penn State, the Irish were any­ nament,  including  
season  this  past  weekend  thing but heartbroken, even  Northwestern,  Detroit,  
exactly as it entered it ­ right  with a tiebreaker in women's  Cleveland State, and Lawrence  
behind the first-ranked Penn  foil going to the Nittany Lions  on Saturday.  
State Nittany Lions.  after the Irish battled strong to  "After the losses to  Penn.  
Facing them  on  Saturday,  tie them at 8-8.  our intensity was a bit down."  
the  men  and  women  Irish  Instead,  the  entire  team  see FENCING I page 14  
•  
The ObseNer/Brandon Candura  
Kelly Olsen hopes to build on the success that teammates Jennifer Hall and Michelle Dasso had last weekend.  
Hall, Dasso continue to  
•  succeed at Rolex Invite  
By TIM CASEY  Michelle Dasso showed that  
Sptms Writer  they  belong  among  the  
nation's elite.  
It may be early in the sea­ The draw included the top  
son, but two members of the  32 players in the country. with  
wonwn's tennis team have  16 receiving automatic berths  
proven they are able to com­ by winning their regionals and  
pete with the best players in  16 at-large bids going to the  
tho country.  remaining top players in the  
This past weekend in the  country.  
prestigious Rolex national  Hall advanced to the quar­ 
indoors, junior  
Jennifer Hall and freshman  

The Notre Dame fencing squad was handed its first loss of the season against Penn State last weekend. 


Men's Basketball Track and Field vs. Boston College 
at Butler Invitational aJ •Dhadphale receives CCHA honors February II, 7:30p.m. 
February 12, 7 p.m. 
~ 
see page 17
• ..... 
CIJ •49ers can't afford Woodson, Greene
Women's Basketball 

Women's Tennis vs. St. John's 
atUNLV see page 15 
February 12, 7 p.m. 

Today, 1:30 p.m. 
~ 





