
-----------------......, 
Iraq
Reviewing the Revue 
• Saddam states that he is 
Rebound? 
prepared ~o fight if the U.S.
bites
• A look at the good, the bad, and the ugly in 
• The Irish seek to rebound this weekend as
attacks. 
this year's Keenan Revue. p. 12 
they face red-hot St. John's. back page 
back p.5 

Friday, January 30, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 81 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SAINT MARY'S ELECTIONS 

Close race produces no results 
Saint Mary's Student Government 
Run.Qff:
Results 
Monday, Feb. 2 in the dining hall 
46.9% litftrt/Middtn 

Run-off election Monday could break the tie 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY News Writer 
In yesterday's election for student body president and vir.e pn~sident at Saint Mary's College, student votes split almost evenly brtween the two tir.kets. 
Sarah Siefert and Nanr.y Midden earned 46.9 pcrr.ent of thP vote while the Katie Wehby and Kelly Madden ticket earned 
46.8 percent of the vote. This narrow margin means a run-ofT elertion will be held on Monday. In the first election. 
49.1 percent of Saint Mary's students cast ballots. 
"I think everybody thought the eler.tion would be close," Horvath said. "It is unr.ommon for there to be a run-off with two tickets running, but we do have two exceptional tickets." 
"Honestly, I knew it would be a close race. I think there will be a clear choice on Monday," 
see ELECTI 0 N I page 4 



As it travels across the country, the AIDS Memorial Quilt keeps alive the memories ofthose who lost the battle with AIDS. More than just pieces ofcloth, these are ... 

PATCHES OF LIFE 
By ERICA THESING News Writer 
A portion of the AIDS Memorial Quilt will visit Notre Dame next weekend. 
The quilt, begun in 1987 as a protest against the AIDS epidemic, will be on display Friday, Feb. 6, through Sunday, Feb. 8, in Stepan Center for public viewing. 
Headed by the Student Union Board, organizers hope that the educational activities and the quilt dis­play will help dispel myths surrounding the AIDS epi­demic. 
"J hope it will open peo­ple's minds," said Notre Dame junior Tina Potthoff, who helped organize the quilt's visit. "At our age, you can get [AIDS]. This isn't just a homosexual dis­ease; other people have died of it," said Notre Dame junior Tina Potthoff, who helped organize the quilt's visit. 
Erin Emmons, who serves as chair of the SUB r.ommittee responsible for this week's activities, also hopes that the quilt will have a lasting impact on those who view it. 
"I hope it will raise awareness, not only in the respect of our age [group's] vulnerability to this disease, but also to put 
-a face to a name, to per­sonalize the issue," she said.. 
The quilt began in San Francisco in 1987 after a man named Cleve Jones 
see QUILT I page 4 

Gumbleton: Social injustice is everyone's problem 

By KRISTINA ZURCHER preaches." Currently, Gumbleton is ferent level. This form of injustice News Writer on a 1 0-day fast from solid food to could occur in many types of soci­protest the economic sanctions eties: cities, nations or the world. 
The tendency of Christians to against Iraq. Structured social injustir.e is consider only personal sins as true The bishop began by referring to prevalent because people do not sins has led to a neglect of inher­the document entitled "Justice in see it as a sin for which they are ently unjust situations, according to the World." This document resulted personally responsible, according Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, in his from the synod of 1971, which was to Gumbleton, and so they ignore it. speech last night on structured called by Pope ·raul VI to confront "[This problem occurs because) social injustice. the problem of injustice in the we have learned to examine our 
Gumbleton, the auxiliary bishop world. consciences in terms of purely per­of Detroit and pastor of St. Leo's This synod defined structured sonal sins," Gumbleton said. Parish, was described by introduc­social injustice as a situation in He supported the idea that indi-The Observer/Patrick Quigley tory speaker Frances O'Connor as a which a society is organized so that 
Bishop Thomas Gumbleton spoke last night, addressing man who "practices what he one level of the society harms a dif­
issues of structured social injustice. see INJUSTICE/ page 6 

Friday, January 30, 1998
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
Clinton and Gore address rally at University of Illinois 
We just spent an Mary Beth EUisentire week in one of my 

Accent Copy Editor
writing classes on Crafting The Personal Statement for job applications, which has the outward appearance of usefulness, but was actually a colossal waste of time. A huge ehunk of the people in that classroom were upperdass English majors, and as upperclass English majors, we all knew darn well and good that none of us are ever going to find employment not involving the phrase "Fries 
I"

are up. 
The amazing thing is, my Personal Statement training might actually come in handy. I am eurrently in the proeess of apply­ing for a summer job, as I can't seem to shake this feeling that I should be doing somnthing constructive in between football seasons. I think I might like to be construc­tive in Colorado. I hear they have actual mountains out there, as opposed to the strategically placed decorative piles of dirt we eurrnntly enjoy here on campus. The road to the mountains, however, is paved with The PPrsonal Statement, and the better the job, the harder the stating. 
Guest ranches, for instance, where the good money and the good living conditions may be found-my family used to vacation at one that located the male employee quarters approximately ten feet away from the horse manure compost pile, not that one smelled essentially better than the other -care deeply about The Personal Statement. Most ranehns provide intensive, staff-run pro­grams for the guests, and for some reason wish to avoid hiring employees with minor yet noticeable charaeter flaws, such as a propnnsity to moon federal law enforcement oflieers. So the stack of ranch applications on my desk feature Personal Statement guide­lines with sueh hard-hitting character ques­tions as: 
•"Do 
you enjoy hard work?" (Possible topic sentence: "Absolutely not. I would, if possi­ble, like to be hired for a position requiring no actual physical movnment beyond what is required for ingesting a standard Cheez-It.") 

•"Do 
you eonsider yourself a 'people per­son?'" (J>ossibln topic sentence: "YES, all right? LEAVE ME ALONE!!") 

•"Do 
you havn a propensity to moon federal law cnforcemnnt oflicers?" (Possible topic sentnnee: "Absolutely not. Priests, on the other hand ... ") 


One ranch demanded not only a five-part Personal Statement, a recent photograph, work references, and a copy of my current transcript, but also three different fully docu­mented character reference forms. This posnd a major problem, as I know exactly four people who even approach the category of responsible adult. Of those, only two were willing to lie on my behalf in writing. 
I wound up handing one of the forms to my boyfriend, which turned out to be a huge error. This man is math major who, although lovable, actually possesses marketable skills and thus has absolut11ly no concept of job insecurity. I really shouldn't have been sur­prisnd when he gave the form back to me with the RELATIONSIIIP TO APPLICANT 
blank Iiiled out "Pimp." 
I don't know what I'll do if I find myself turned down by all 872 ranches I've applied to. I'll probably settle for a summer job involving less prestige, less pay, and less opportunity for advancement, but more horse crap, namely-White I louse Intern. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Accent Laura Perelle Joe Weiler Tim Logan Joey Crawford Kathleen O'Brien Graphics Sports 
Dave Piening Sarah Dylag 
Production 
Joe Cavaro 

Matt Loughran
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Kelly Brooks 

Kevin Dalum 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and VJcation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reprodu,tion righrs arc reserved. 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

President Clinton had few surprises for the crowd at the University of Illinois· on Wednesday, though a fiery Vice President AI Gore stole the spot­light, dressed as a pr~siden­tial candidate. 
a passionate plr~a. asking
Telling the audience 
"Keep your eyes on the future," Clinton echoed many of his themes from Tuesday's State of the Union address. 
Of those themes, Clinton stressed education, the Internet, the environment and Social Security in his 25-minute address. 
While introducing Clinton, Gore surprised many in the audience with his spirited rhetoric. Gore called on America to support its president, the closest either Gore or Clinton came to addressing the allegations Clinton had an affair with 24-year-old 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Friday  ~  38 27  
Saturday  ~  39 31  
Sunday  ~  38 29  
Monday Tuesday5..5'.....\r"· ·. ···­'  "'/  ~ ; ,~  ..  35 29 39 32  

4,~,~9-~Q~~u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Preas GraphicsNel 
Monica Lewinsky. Clinton didn't even while at the same time boosting the hint at the allegations. economy and social programs. And judging from the enthusiasm of ''I'm telling you," Gore said, a fin­the audience, he didn't need to. ger pointed at the audience, "We're 
"Any mention of it would've been moving in the right direction." With his voice rising and his eyes bright, Gore then launched into 

out of place," said Haque! Pina, sophomore in communications, as she stood outside Assembly Hall while the president's motorcade left the lot. "It's not part of the issues." 
Gore, also Clinton received a stand­ing ovation, praised the Clinton administration for its effort to curb government scope and spending 
• SAINT MARY's COLLEGE (MD) 
Original artifacts stolen from art dept. 
ST. MARY'S CITY, MD. 
As the majority of the college community enjoyed the first weekend of winter break, St. Mary's College experi­enced its most serious theft in recent history. On Sunday, December 21, 1997, 65 ancient artifacts were stolen out of a glass case in a campus building. That afternoon, Public Safety Officer Francis Webb noticed that the ventilation duct screen located at a building loading dock had been removed. Officer Webb saw three juveniles in the area, and approached them for questioning, but the three youngsters are not suspects in the theft. According to Professor Sandra Underwood, head of the Division of Arts and Letters, these 65 artifacts were a gift to the College ten years ago. The artifacts are real, not reproductions, and are of Pre-Colombian [Latin American], Mesopotamian, Greek, and Roman origin. Each piece is labeled with a hand-drawn inventory number. They were valued at $10,000 ten years ago, and would do not depre­ciate in value. Despite their worth, Underwood noted that they would have little resale value, if they could be sold at all. 
• STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Bookstore suit will not see trial 
STANFOHD, Calif. 
Nearly six years after alleged wrongdoings by high­level Stanford Bookstore managers surfaced, a Santa Clara County Municipal Court judge has declined to send the case to trial. The December decision by Justice Thomas Cain ends more than two years of preliminary hearings on the charges brought against three Bookstore executives by the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office. Cain found that "there was no evidence -there wasn't even a strong suspidon -that either of the defendents, Mr. Speed or Mr. Chiaramonte, committed any crime, defrauded anyon•~ or was dishonest in any shape or form," said Chiaramonte's attorney, Kenneth Robinson. Chiaramonte is "very happy that this matter has finally been put to rest," he added. 
Americans to rally around "the 
man who has brought us this 
f. " 
ar. 

"Join me in supporting him 
and standing by his side," Gore 
said. In the context of his 
speech, Gore was talking about supporting Clinton's new initiatives, but in light of the recent storms of scandal. his meaning was dear. 
brief speech, Clinton callf~d upon students to take a lead in mov­ing America into the 21st century. "You represent what we're trying to build for the future of America," Clinton said. 
• COLORADO UNIVERSITY 
Student union supports gay rights 
BOULDEH, Colo. 
CU Student Union leaders unanimously passed a resolu­tion last week supporting the current national effort to legalize same-sex marriages. Executives say they hope the measure will send a clear message to lawmakers that young people support gay rights issues. With a budget of $23 million, CUSU is the largest student government in the nation, a fact that strengthens the importance of the mar­riage resolution, according to Executive Jon Cooper. "When a student government as large and all-1mcompassing as ours takes a stand on an issue such as same-sex marriage, it is a powerful message to everyone that young people believe strongly in equity for all people, regardless of sexu­al orientation," Cooper said. The resolution states that the CUSU "supports the basic human right to marriage and the belief that the state should not interfere with same-sex cou­ples who choose to marry and share fully in the right. responsibilities and commitment of civil marriage." Espinoza said he did not sec this legislation as a gay-rights issue as much as it was a civil-rights issue. "We an~ show­ing support for equality for all_people," he said. 
• JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY 
Student murder trial begins 
HAHHISONBUHG. VA. 
The prosecution in the Brent Simmons murder trial began stating its case this week. Simmons, a recent .JMU grad, is charged with the October, 1996 shootings of for­mer .JMU students Ann Olson, 25, and Keith O'Connell, 
23. Prosecuting Attorney Douglas Stark first presented the jurors with witnesses who testified about Simmons and Olson's troubled relationship after the two stopped dating. "The phone calls were incessant to Ann Olson's apartment -one o'clock in the morning ... six o'clock in the morning -Where's Ann?" Stark said of Simmons"alleged calls. But Simmons' attorm~ys said the prosecution has little physical cvidencn that their client committed the double-homicide. "This case should not be tried on emotion," said defense attorney David Walsh. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 30. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc 

Hessu'i_ RTI &'SJ ~ 0 [3] G ¢-eJ. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vm AssocUillsd Prsss 
Anchorage 28 24 Detroit 36 28 Philadelphia 48 32 Boston 40 31 Houston 70 54 Richmond 53 27 Buffalo 32 25 Miami 72 54 San Francisco 60 52 Cleveland 36 28 New York 44 32 Seattle 54 40 Denver 44 24 Omaha 53 30 St. Louis 48 38 


-----------------------. 
Friday, January 30, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Burke wins Dooley Award for tax assistance to poor 
By JESSICA LOGAN 
News Writer 
Four years ago, 1994 Notre Dame graduate Robert Burke formulated a plan to help low­income families take advantage of the tax credit available to them. 
Today, his City-Wide Tax Assistance Program is the largest organization of its kind, with more volunteers, more families assisted and more dol­lars returned than any other program in the country. 
At a dinnr.r in the Centr.r for Continuing Education tonight, the Univr.rsity of Notre Dame Alumni Association will present Burke with the Doctor Thomas 
A. Doolny Award for his out­standing service to humankind. 
After graduating from Notre Damn with a degree in accounting, Burke began work­ing as a corporate tax consul­tant at the Chicago-based firm Arthur Andersen. where he quickly became a senior con­sultant. 
Burke spent his free time vol­unteering as a basketball coach at a nl'arhy Catholic school, 

r------------------------, 
A Single Night Stay. 
This Certificate is Redeemable ~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!for $5.00 Off a Single Night 
Knights  Stay at Knights Inn.  
Inn  Redeemable for $5 off the standard room rate at Knights Inn. Not valid on Football Weekends. Cannot be com­ 
bined with any other discounts or special offers. Voucher  

is not redeemable for cash. One voucher per stay. No photocopies accepted. Voucher must be presented at time of check-in. Offer expires June 30, 1999. 
L------------------------~ 
where he observed low-income families struggling to provide their children with private edu­cations. 
Inspired by Notre Dame accountancy professor Ken Mil!lni, who encouraged stu­dents to use their knowledge and skills to assist others, Burke approached Arthur Andersen CEO James Kackley with a business proposal describing his 
'WEARE IN THE BUSINESS OF HELP­
plan to offer fre.e tax volunteers assisted the 
ING PEOPLE. THESE PEOPLE ARE
consultation to low­people of Chicago on six income families. consecutive Saturdays,
NOT ON WELFARE. THEY ARE THE WORK-
With Kackley's sup­helping 1,850 families port: Burke immediately lNG POOR.' earn over $2 million in 
began recruiting and educating volunteers from Arthur Andersen. He put together a pro­gram to assist the work­ing poor on Chicago's West Side and distributed fliers detailing the program at neigh­borhood Catholic schools. 
During its first year of opera­tion, Burke's program assisted 120 families and ultimately returned $150,000 in refunds to poor working families during the 1995 tax season. The aver­age income of assisted families was approximately $11,000. 
"The first year was a real learning experience," said Tony Schiappa, co-president of the City-Wide Tax Assistance Program. "We were learning how to run a business." 
Encouraged by the program's success and the gratitude of the people he had assisted, tax credit. 
ROBERT BURKE, "One of the challengesthat we faced was that 
DOOLEY AWARD WINNER 

Burke immediately began preparing for the 1996 tax sea­son. 
The second year that the program operated, Burke and his staff managed to recruit 426 volunteers to consult throughout the entire eity of Chicago. The number of fami­lies assisted by the program increased tenfold, and $1 mil­lion in tax credit was returned to them. 
Burke and his staff decided that it was time to expand the program and incorporate a more diverse group of volun­teers after their success in 
The Observer: Read it. 




Cam_;pus Ministr}' Events 
Friday, January 30, 1998 Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library Last day to sign-up: . NDE #50 (Feb. 28-March 1) 
Friday-Sunday, January 30-Feb. 1 Fatima Retreat Center Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #49 
Friday-Saturday, January 30-31 Lindenwood Retreat Center Learning To Talk of Race Retreat 
Saturday, January 31 Lindenwood Retreat Center Retreat: African American Freshmen Intro'97 
Sunday, February 1, 4:00pm Sarin Hall Chapel Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
1996. The City-Wide Tax Assistance Program became a private corporation and began widely recruiting volunteers. 
"We wanted quality volun­teers to help people who quali­fied for assistance," Schiappa explained. "It's a great experi­ence for people to assist the working poor by talking about 
taxes and about life." 
During the 1997 tax 
season, Burke and his 
of getting the word out 
about the program," Schiappa said. "Volunteers spoke with city leaders, priests and congressmen, asking them to explain the program to their communities." 
Since its establishment in 1995, the program has received considerable media exposure. It has been featured on NBC, CBS, Fox and National Public Radio, as well as in Money Magazine, the Chicago Tribune and the Chicago Sun-Times. 
The program continues to grow rapidly and currently has sites in a number of major cities, including San Francisco, St. Louis, Dallas, Washington D.C., Philadelphia, Tampa, Grand Rapids and Atlanta. 
In addition to Arthur Andersen, the program has a number of corporate sponsors, including American National Bank, Ameritech, the New York Yankees and many mid­dle market businesses. 
"These companies are very important to the program," Burke said. 
As CEO of the City-Wide Tax Assistance Program, Burke plans to return over $3 million to 3,000 Chicago families. 
"We are in the business of helping people," Burke said. "These people are not on wel­fare. They are the working poor." 
"Bob is a very passionate person about his work and the people he has helped," Schiappa said. "He cares about them. His passion is just overwhelming." 
While continuing to lead the City-Wide Tax Assistance Program, Burke is currently studying finance at the Harvard School of Business Administration. 
Father Richard Warner will present Burke with the Doctor Thomas A. Dooley Award dur­ing the winter meeting of the Notre Dame Alumni Board of Directors. 


OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 

112 Badin Hall 
631-5242 Basilica Offices 
631·8463 Website: www.nd.edu./-ministryI 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 30, 1998 
' 

Off the wall? 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Students look through posters at the sale in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune yesterday. 

Injustice 
continued from page 1 
viduals are rnsponsible for structured social injustice with a biblical referencn to the rich man and the bnggar at his gate. Thn rich man merely ignored the bnggar. and he went to hell, and the beggar went to heaven. c;umblnton said that thosn suf­fering and those ignoring them arn separated by an eternal abyss. 
Gumbleton also gave current examples of structured social injustice. lie pointed out that in the United States, minimum wage is $5.25 an hour, or roughly $11,000 a year. One­fifth of the workforce earns minimum wage or less, and sonw of these arc part-time worknrs who have no pension or lwalth care. 
lie then pointnd to corporate t\merica as a perpetrator of sodal injustic1~ in some cases, noting that Michael Jordan earns more in a 20-second Nike commereial than the entire Indonesian workforcn for Nike narns in a ynar. 
t\nother institution (;umbleton described as eco­nomically unjust was the lntnrnational Monetary Fund. lie dtml I <JIJ7 figurns showing that rich nations receivml $1 billion mon~ from the bank than poor nations, and that poor countries pay hack far mon~ in interest each year 
than they ever received in loans. 
"We set up an international economic order to move wealth from the poor to the rich," Gumbleton said. 
lie also discussed the South African situation of apartheid, in which he believes a society was organized to destroy the black people by depriving them of economic, political and human rights. 
"Anyone who lives in and benefits from a society of that type is sinning ... what our leaders do, we are responsible for,"· Gumbleton said. 
At the end of his speech, Gumbleton reminded the audi­ence of their responsibility towards others and exhorted them to work against struc­tured social injustice. 
One of his suggestions for individual action was to sup­port bans on child labor, such as the proposed U.S. law to ban carpet made by children. lie also urged the audience to walk into a store carrying Disney products, say, "I refuse to buy your products," and walk out again. 
"My hope tonight is that all of us will be willing to take the time to see structured social injustice in our society and find out what we can do about 

it. But it will take courage," ll"~rr~~~OZ.~n~ I'RCIM Gumbleton said. Gumbleton is the founding lr::F,~#~==~~!';!~~~~~president of Pax Christi and a 
member of many peacemaking ~~~i!;;::;~~~:!:;:!~.~~~~
organizations. I 

Quilt 
continued from page 1 
became frustrated by the death and tragedy surrounding the AIDS epidemic. Jones wanted a way to express the loss he and his friends felt as their loved ones died of AIDS. 
In June 1987, Jones spray­painted the name of his friend, Marvin Feldman, onto a piece of doth approximately the size of a grave. From this small begin­ning, tho idea caught on and thousands of people began adding patches to the quilt. 
Today, the full AIDS Memorial Quilt is composed of over 43,000 panels, each measuring exactly 3 feet by 6 feet. The display at Stepan will feature 400 of these memorials. 
Panels ean be made by anyone to commemorate the life of a loved one lost to AIDS. Materials used for the panels include Barbie dolls, champagne glasses, photographs, teddy bears and wedding rings. 
The quilt display marks the culmination of AIDS Education Week on campus. The activities 

Election 
continued from page 1 
Siefert said when asked 
whether she thought the elec­
tion would be this close, 
"I believe we are the best can­didates for the job and I think that the students will make the best choice on Monday," she continued. 
The Webby/Madden ticket also expressed no surprise about the need for the run-off election. 
"Both tkkets have campaigned hard," Wehby said. "It doesn't surprise us. Now, we need to make sure that everyone gets out and votes on Monday because it is really important." 
With the gift of extra time to 

r-~~~---~~---­
Sat, Feb. 7 1'\~\'~'· 
<, 
;;:-x-.=:e~:.. ·· .. ··.~.>.=

12,5 P.M. Open VIewing ;;~; > 
:&u.n., Feb. 8 
12~.§ P.M. (;)pen Viewing a'P.M. Closipg Ceremonies 
begin tomorrow with a 2 p.m. screening of "And the Band Played On" in Montgomery Theater, followed by a Monday night panel discussion on the Catholic response to t\IDS at 7 
p.m. 
in 129 DeBartolo. "Philadelphia" will show at 7 


p.m. 
Wednesday in Montgomery Theater. 


Jeanne White-Cinder, mother of deceased AIDS activist Hyan White, will speak at 7 p.m. Thursday in the llesburgh Library auditorium. Opening ceremonies for the AIDS Memorial Quilt display begin at 7 p.m. Friday. 
Potthoff, who has viewed the AIDS Memorial Quilt once before, understands the power of the display. 
"It's an amazing feeling because it's something you've never experienced before. Each panel is someone's life," she said. "You learn a lot about the people who have died of t\IDS. It's pretty overwhelmin~." 
The NAMES Project Foundation, the non-profit orga­nization which stores and main­tains the quilt, estimates that more than 548,000 Americans have been diagnosed with AIDS 
campaign, both sets of candi­dates plan to make the most of the weekend before the vote on Monday. Both of the tickets also emphasize that they feel the issues presented in tlreir plat­forms are attainable. 
"We feel we need to get out there and tell students how much research we've done on our platform," Siefert said. She also brought up the issue of the exam study days which the Wehby/Madden ticket will try to re-instate if they are elected. 
"We researched study days and whether it was feasible to sinee 1981. Of thos11, morn than 3(>2,000 have died. Emmons feels that the quilt is an essnntial way to rememb!lr those lost to t\IDS. 

"Each panel stands for the relationship between people with AIDS and those who love them," she said. "The quilt really shows the compassion of the friends and family nwmbers of people who have died from t\IDS." 
Potthoff also feels that tlw quilt is important and she points to its inernasing sizn as testimony. 
"This is a n~presentation of the people, by tlw people," she said. "It's not government sponsored. It's something someone started years ago and it just keeps growing. If any­thing I'd like to see it not grow because maybe then we would have stopped the t\IDS epidem­ic." 
The AIDS Memorial Quilt has visited all 50 U.S. states and 35 foreign countries. More than 5 million people have viewed the quilt, and it was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize in 1989. This is the quilt's seeond visit to Notre Dame. 
get them re-instated, and felt that they were not feasibln," Siefert said. 
Webby and Madden also plan to hit the campaign trail on1:e again this weekend. 
"Both Kelly and I fed we need to get back out there and go door to door to show tlw stu­dents that our platforms am fea­sible in order to gnt them to vote for us," Wehby said. 
Voting for the run-oil' election will take placn Monday in the Saint Mary's dining hall from 7 to 9 a.m., 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., and 4:30 to 6:30p.m. 

One & Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98-'99 School Year. Summer Rentals June-August. 
•
Furnish/central air 


• 24 hour laundry
•
All utilities included 

•Flexible lease plans
• 
Indoor popl/spa 


•Shuttle to campus/city 
•Tennis, 
volleyball, & 

•More info: 272,1441
basketball. courts 


In conjunction with the University Club of Notre Dame, sail Celebrity's 
new magnificient, "Mercury", for her inaugural Alaskan cruise. 
June 12, 1998 7 NIGHT NORTHBOUND GLACIER 
Mercury joins Celebrity's Five-Star Fleet with award winning cuisine created by Master Chef Michel Roux. Discover stylish staterooms five-star service, gala stage productions and world class recreation~! amenities. It's all part of your Celebrity experience. Call NOW for this special group pricing, cabin categories and brochure. Deposit Deadline Feb. 04, 1998 
1518 Miami Street 234-6636 1-800-4 72-6714 



Friday, January 30, 1998 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Clinton seeks money to 
enforce child labor laws 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton will ask for $86 million in addition­al funding to help enforce child labor laws when he presents his budget to Congress next week, administration officials said Thursday. The money would fund a program aimed at strengthening the Clinton enforcement of child labor laws in the United States and overseas. The program calls for hiring additional investiga­tors, boosting educational funds for migrant children and increasing global support for an international foundation against forced child labor. 
Officials plan space city 
WASHINGTON 
Senior officials from 15 countries signed agreements Thursday formalizing coopera­tion for the planned construction a perma­nent international space station, beginning this summer. "We will change the course of human history," NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin told a State Department gathering that included Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, a space pioneer. He said the project entails nothing less than a "city in space." It is the largest international civil science and tech­nology project ever undertaken. Countries taking part in the project are Canada, Japan, Russia, the United States, Belgium, Denmark. France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. 

Newborn is snatched from mother's hospital room 
KANSAS CITY 
A couple suspected of taking a newborn 
girl from her sleeping mother in a maternity 
ward was videotaped hours earlier hanging 
around a different hospital. A security cam­
era at North Kansas City {Mo.) Hospital 
caught the couple around 7:30 p.m. 
Wednesday. Hours later, a young woman 
walked into a mother's room at the 
University of Kansas Medical Center and 
told her about a drawing for free baby 
clothes. After a brief r,onversation, the moth­
er -who had been sedated earlier -fell 
asleep. and the young woman abducted the 
hours-old newborn, identified only as Carlie. 
A man with the young woman had falsely 
told other visitors that he was hanging 
around thf~ maternity ward because his wife 
had had triplets, the FBI said. Around 11 
p.m., a camera recorded the couple leaving 
the hospital with a baby in an infant carrier. 

+8.03 749,519,491 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
ruM~~~}: UC~EB' 1MI CHMS{.iE S li:AIN £BI!:E 
TUBBYS INC  TUBY!l  611.13  1.718  2.00  
SCJ\NVEC CO LTD  SVECF  37.H4  0.875  3.188  
ECO~AT li\;C  ECMT  .H.7H  1.00  3.875  
'illM\.11T Df_'iJGN  'iMMT  30.95  3.25  13.75  
TOI'RO INC·WTS  TI'ROW  28.57  0.75  3.375  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
COR THERAPEUTICS CORR 52.81 10.562 9.4375 WARRANTECH CORP TWEC 42.86 4.125 5.500 VANS INC VANS :m.36 3.719 8.531 PROCOM TECH INC PRCM 29.78 3.313 7.812 PREMIER RESEARCH I'RWW 24.14 1.750 5.500 
_...... 
~-~ 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Saddam prepared to defend Iraq 

Dictator claims he does 
not want war but will 
fight back if attacked 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 
Iraqis will defend their country "with expertise, faith and perseverance" if the United States attacks, President Saddam Hussein declared Thursday ­adding that there was no reason for the United States to do so. 
With the Clinton administration lay­ing groundwork for possible U.S.-led airstrikes on Iraq, U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright described the current standoff as "very grave." 
"We have all but exhausted the real diplomatic options," she said in Paris after meeting with French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine. "The moment to make a decision is quickly approaching." 
Asked about a deadline, Albright demurred. "I am not in the ultimatum business at this moment," she said, but added that it was "important that Saddam Hussein listens to what was said tonight." 
In Baghdad, Saddam was quoted as saying his army will fight "in a manner that will be a subject of admiration." 
"They don't have any national inter­est or any justification to come thou­sands of miles to attack us," Saddam said. "[But] if the devil pushed these enemies to commit an evil act and an aggression on us, we will be forced to fight them with all our capabilities, expertise, faith and perseverance. ...Their aggression is against God." 
Iraq and the United Nations are in a standoff over U.N. inspections intended to ensure that Iraq has eliminated all long-range missiles and weapons of mass destruction. 
Baghdad was forced to accept the inspections at the end of .the 1991 Persian Gulf War, and tough U.N. sanc­tions imposed in 1990 are unlikely to be lifted until inspectors certify the 

AFP Photo An F/A-18C Hornet takes off from the deck of the aircraft carrier USS Nimitz. The carri­er is in the Gulf region in case of military conflict with Iraq. 
.banned weapons programs have been dismantled. 
Washington demands Baghdad pro­vide U.N. experts with unconditional access to any site they wish to inspect, including Saddam's palaces, or face air and missile attacks. 
Russia has had some success in mediating disputes involving Iraq and Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov said Thursday he is opti­mistic a peaceful solution will be found. He also said a military attack on Iraq would be "very serious and very negative." 
Primakov was to discuss the situation with Albright in Madrid on Friday. 
Trying to overcome French, as well as Russian, resistance to attacking Iraq as a last resort, Albright had dinner Thursday in Paris with Vedrine, the French foreign minister. Afterward, Vedrine appeared to close ranks with the United States, saying that diplo­matic efforts must be stepped up to resolve the crisis so the U.N. inspectors can work "without obstruction." But Vedrine also implied that the military option was still a possibility. 
In Washington, Defense Secretary William Cohen said the United States still was seeking a diplomatic solution to the impasse. On Capital Hill, howev­er, lawmakers were considering a res­olution to "take all necessary and appropriate actions to respond to the threat posed by Iraq's refusal to end its weapons of mass destruction pro­grams." 
Meanwhile, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz accused U.N. weapons inspectors of exaggerating the current crisis and insisted Iraq has not threatened any country. 
A spokesman for U.N. weapons inspectors in Baghdad said the United Nations had chosen its experts for Iraq's arms evaluation talks that begin Sunday. The talks will assess Iraq's progress in eliminating its weapons of mass destruction. 
U.N. inspectors say the biological program is the most problematic area in their efforts to disarm Iraq. They still suspect Baghdad may be hiding biological agents. 
-------------~---~­
Friday, January 30, 1998

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Notre Dame remembers
Why doesn't SUB have free popcorn at Cushing? 
John Yoder with prayers 
Special to The Observer Yoder was a specialist in Christian ethics and a member 
A memorial prayer service of the Notre Dame theology fac­for John Yoder, professor of ulty since 1977. lie had Cl~le­theology at Notre Dame, will be bratcd his 70th birthday with held today at 3:30 p.m. in the his family the day before his Basilica of the Sacred Heart. death. 
Yoder died Dee. 30, 1997, Yoder was a devout after suffering a heart attack in Mennonite and a propmwnt of his Decio Hall office. non-violenee . 
• CORRECTION 
In an article about registering for the Web printed in Thursday's edition of The Observer, Don Steinke should have been quoted as saying "This will be a secure system." 
The Observer regrets the error. 

The Observer/Kevin Oalum Adam Rieck builds a pyramid of popcorn as Ross Kerr looks on. SUB gave away popcorn yesterday in LaFortune. 
An Informal Discussion Presenlted By 




!.BT 
.Brown
~ 

For Juniors in all <--:alleges Interested in Learning More About Life As an Analyst in the Investment Banking Industry 
Notre Dame Room of the Morris Inn Sunday, February 1st 7:00pm Hors d'oeuvres and Beverages to be f•rovided 
In attendance from the ND Class of 1997: 
GR Nelson Kim Ryan Troy Phillips Luke Johnson 
r-----------·­
Friday, January 30, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Maitland: Modern novels lack spirituality, religion 
By JOHN FESKO 
News Writer 
Sarah Maitland. a British writer famous for her essays, anthologies and novels, spoke yesterday about the lack of religion and spirituality in modern fiction. 
"I want to address the reason there has been this breakdown br,tween rr,ligion and novel writing," said Maitland. "Something has gone awry in thfl way we talk about God in words." 
In her lecture. Maitland gave four main reasons why modern fiction is dr,void of religion and spirituality. She began by say­ing that "the novel is a mani­festation of society," and reflec­tive of our sr,cular culture. 
"Novels move towards clo­surr,, solutions and stopping points, which is precisely the opposite of the spiritual jour­ney," Maitland said. attributing the problem to the form of fic­tion writing. She also contrast­ed the closure in novels to the boundless possibility which is the nature of spirituality. 
"It's very hard to imagine an open-ending novel," she said. "Until we find a way to do that, I don't see how a novel can express serious religious con­cerns. 
"It's very hard for novels to address religion that makes any sort of truth claim," Maitland continued. Pointing out that there is a widespread belief in modern culture that there are no absolute truths, she said that "no truths are truer than other truths. 
"What people want now is a role model. What people used to want was a patron saint," Maitland stated, noting that the type of characters readers want today simply isn't com­patible with religious fiction. 
Today, she said, "people want someone who matches their aspirations. We have completely lost the idea of how myth works and replaced it with a simplistic Xerox machine role model." 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Son~s to'l Sop'ltt1to and CJulta'l 
CJeo'l~LJ-te 'ResLck, sop'zti.Jto ~t~itft 'Da.uid /!,ei.SJte'l, 'jUittl!list/ compose'l 
II 
y=~:::··"•''' 
7:30p.m., Monday, February 2 
···~· 
20th Century Gallery, Snite Museum Tickets $2 Tickets available at the LaFortune Box Office, or charge by phone 
(219) 631-8128. Limited seating; reserve your ticket in advance. Call l-6201 for more information. 

Tobacco lobby faces Congress 
Associated Press The face-off came as the settlement money would industry executives traveled to include payments to treat sick WASHINGTON the Capitol to argue on behalf smokers. In return, the indus­Tobacco executives acknowl­of the settlement they negotiat­try would get protection from edged to a congressional com­ed last June with 40 states -most future lawsuits. The deal mittee Thursday that nicotine and exhort lawmakers to must be ratified by Congress if 
is addictive and causes health include the provision limiting it is to become law. problems, even as they pleaded further lawsuits. · But the industry's case has anew for passage of a global "We cannot agree to any leg­been harmed by recentlyliability settlement that would islation that does not include released secret documents insulate them from some future the limited common sense civil showing that in the 1970s, lawsuits. liability protections," Brookes tobacco companies targeted
"Is nicotine addictive?" asked said. children with their marketing
Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colo., a But neither Democrats nor practices and conducted member of the House Republicans seem anxious to research to increase the nico­Commerce Committee. grant the request of an indus­tine levels in their products. 
"It would be," replied try that has produced docu­In testimony before the Laurence Tisch, co-chairman ments showing it targeted chil­Commerce Committee on and chief executive officer of dren in advertisements for Thursday, tobacco executives Loews Corp., which owns the tobacco products in the 1970s. . condemned those strategiesLorillard Tobacco Co. and pledged to make "Yes, under the terms public a cache of new that people use today, I documents on those sub­
would say it is," said 'OUR ONLY GOAL MUST BE TO PASS jects.
Steven Goldstone, chair­· LEGISLATION THAT PROTECTS OUR "It is immor.al, it is man and chief executive 
unethical as well as ille­

CHILDREN. WE DON'T NEED THE TOBACCO
officer of RJR Nabisco. gal to market to peopleSaid Vincent Grierer INDUSTRY'S BLESSING TO DO THIS.' underage," conceded Jr., chief executive offi-
Steven Goldstone, chair­cer of U.S. Tobacco Inc.: 

man and chief executive "That would be accu­HENRY WAXMAN officer of RJR Nabisco. rate." REPRESENTATIVE FROM CALIFORNIA Goldstone and four 
Some cigarette execu-other industry executives 
tives made similar acknowledg­"Our only goal must be to pledged to make public hun­ments in letters.to the Senate pass legislation that protects dreds of thousands of docu­Judiciary Committee last year. our children," said Rep. Henry ments sought by Minnesota 
But Nick Brookes, chairman Waxman, D-Cal., an anti-smok­prosecutors who are suing the and chief executive officer of ing activist. "We don't need the industry for consumer fraud Brown & Williamson Tobacco tobacco industry's blessing to and deception.Cos. demurred Thursday on do this. We don't even need Those documents, also dating addictiveness of tobacco. "I their agreement. All we need is back to the 1970s, contain the personally would not use that the political will to do what's industry's research into term," he said. right." whether nicotine is addictive 
Asked by Rep., Gene Green, The industry maintains that and its plans to market tobacco D-Texas, whether tobacco language affording it immunity products to children, said Scott products cause health prob­from future lawsuits is neces­Strand, deputy counsel in the lems, such as lung cancer, sary to protect it from bank­Minnesota attorney general's
Goldstone replied, "Yes, I think ruptcy. office. smoking plays a role in lung A deal struck in June "People had to understand cancer." between the industry and state that the industry position was 
Answered Tisch: "I think it attorneys general would end 40 made on good faith," said Scott plays a role." state lawsuits against the Williams of Bozell Sawyer
A number of cigarette com­industry if the companies pay Miller. "If for some reason the pany executives wrote to the $368 billion over 25 years and settlement didn't work out, Senate Judiciary Committee voluntarily change such prac­people should know that the last year conceding that tobac­tices as marketing. Part of the industry was sincere about it." co was addictive. 

uThe ability to communicate is everything. ,, 
-Lee Iacocca 
The NDCIBD and Deloitte & Touche present: 

TIM KOEGEL 
LEARN: 

•
How to captivate your audience 

•How 
to make an impact in job interviews 

•How 
to add excitement to a classroom presentation 

•How 
to portray professionalism in future job experiences 


Monday, Feb-. 2nd 4:30pm Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
Recent participants include: 
Merrill Lynch Stanford University Coca-Cola 
Tom Koegel is a 1982 ND graduate. He played quarterback and was a member of the 1977 National Championship team. 

January 31 -JJ:OO AM Deadline -January 29 February 7 -10:00 AM Deadline-February 5 February 7 -2:00 PM Deadline -February 5 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 
R~~ 
page 8 
The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Friday, January 30, 1998 
Trie served first indictment in fund-raising fiasco 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Democratic fund-raiser Yah Lin 
"Charlie" Trie and an associate ,have 
been charged with giving and arranging 
illegal political contributions to the 
Democratic National Committee to buy 
access to President Clinton and other 
top otlieials. 
The long-anticipated first indictment from the Justice Department's campaign finance task force also charged Trie, a former Little Hoek, Ark., restaurateur and longtime friend of Clinton, with obstructing justice by ordering an employee to destroy documenl'i subpoe­naed last year by a federal grand jury and the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. 
Meanwhile, individuals familiar with the investigation told The Associated Press that prosecutors have informed a Buddhist temple in California that it is a target likely to indicted in the fund-rais­ing case. 
The individuals, speaking on condition of anonymity, said lawyers for the Hsi Lai Temple were planning a weekend meeting in Washington with prosecutors to argue their case. 
The temple garnered national atten­tion last year when it was learned that donors were illegally reimbursed for donations they made at a Democratic fund-raiser attended by Vice President A1 Gore in April 1996. 
Gore originally said he thought the 
event was community outreach, but 
later acknowledged he knew it was 
donor-related. 

A few of the temple's Buddhist nuns were granted immunity and testified at nationally televised Senate hearings last summer about the donation scheme and later efforts to destroy documents about the event. 
Though the nuns were granted immu­nity, the temple could be subject to pros­ecution as an organization for federal eampaign finance violations. 
The office of attorney Brian Sun, who represents the temple, issued a state­ment Thursday saying he was "sur­prised and disappointed that this leak, if true, occurred while a sensitive grand jury proceeding was still ongoing." 
The 15-eount indictment against Tr-ie, 49, and his business associate, Yuan Pei "Antonio" Pan, 50, was released Thursday after otlicials mufTed an effort to keep it sealed late Wednesday and sketchy descriptions cropped up in news reports. The secrecy had been sought because both defendants are believed to be out of the country. ... 
"This is an important step forward in addressing campaign finance abuses 
associated with the 1996 election," 
Attorney General Janet Reno said. 
The FBI got arrest warrants for both men and hoped to apprehend them or have them extradited to the United States. Trie, born in Taiwan and a natu­ralized U.S. citizen, is thought to be in China. Reno has asked the Chinese jus­tice minister for cooperation in the cam­paign finance investigation, but np help has been forthcoming, Justice offieials said Thursday. 
The grand jury charged that Trie and Pan funneled money to the Democratie National Committee from people whom they secretly reimbursed in cash. 
In that conspiracy count, the indict­ment said that in an effort to promote their business interests here and abroad, Trie and Pan "purchased access to high-level government officials in the United States by contributing and solicit­ing contributions to the Democratic National Committee." 
The grand jury derailed the success of this plan: Between June 22, 1994 and Aug. 18, 1996, Trie attended 10 dinners, lunches or coffees with Clinton, includ­ing four inside the White House. He also attended four events with Gore, one of which was in the White House. And he arranged three White House tours with his business associates and a photo opportunity with Clinton. 
One of Trie's guests at a White House 
coflee with Clinton last year was Wang 
Jun. head of a Chinese government 
arms company ealled Poly Technologies, 
White House records have shown previ­
ously. 

Trie's attorney, Reid Weingarten, was out of his oflice and did not respond to requests for comment. Previously, he has said money disbursed from U.S. bank accounts of Trie's affiliated com­panies was for legitimate business expenses like travel, rent and staff salaries. Political donations that Trie made were legal beeause they were made with his own money, Weingarten said. 
Pan, a Taiwanese national who former­ly worked for the Indonesia-based Lippu group, was an executive of two TriP­owned enterprises. The grand jury charged that money was shipped to Trie in this eountry from Asian aecounts of one of these two companies and of San Kin Yip International Trading Co., owned by a Maeau real estate mogul and Trie's assoeiate, Np Lap Seng. 
Between his personal contributions and the money he solieited, Tric was erndited with bringing more than $600,000 to the DNC, the .Justice Department said. The grand jury said mueh of it eame from for­eign sources or was obtained through "straw" or "conduit" contributions. 
Celeb~ate a f~ielt\d 's bi~thday with a special Obse~ve~ ad. 


Noire Dame Communlcatron and Theatre prusent's 
Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies Up to $3,000 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, COME TO A MEETING ON 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1998 
5:00 P.M. 

DEBARTOLO I 20 A(~tors from th~ tondon Stag,., 
For further information, contact:
Biddy Wells will prr.sent Pater llndfnrd v.;ll prr.sent 
Beyond Ihe Grave· The Pootry of Ph1I1C Larkin ASclact:on o! Ghos:s mStones !he Pgems of a Professor Michael Francis Puems arc lMaph.; Very Pnvate Man 
TuRsday FebruMy 3 Wednesday. february 4 
1-5203 (Hurley I IO) 

WoOlen's Basketball Saturday Jan.· 31st 2:00pm vs. Seton Hall Free admission to all students 
Friday, January 30, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
• GREAT BRITAIN 
UK to investigate 'Bloody Sunday' 
England's top judge at the time, the Irish government described 
Government will 
Lord Widgery, say only foreign the Widgery report as "inher­judges would add credibility to ently flawed." It said the report

look into causes of 
the inquiry. ignored changes in the succes­Bloody Sunday-Jan. 30, sive statements of soldiers who 

'72 massacre, 
1972 -was the worst single opened fire. 
yielding to killing by British forces since White House spokesman Mike Northern Ireland's foundation McCurry welcomed Blair's Catholic demands in 1920 as a predominantly announcement, and said that pro-British Protestant territory. the British leader and President 
Associated Press 
On that afternoon, soldiers Clinton had spoken recently by opened fire after thousands of telephone about Northern 
LONDON 

Catholics marched in protest in Ireland. 
In a major concession after Londonderry against Britain's "This is an important and 
years of Catholic demands, 
policy then of imprisoning Irish timely initiative to come to 
Prime Minister Tony Blair 
Republican Army suspects terms with the past and to help
announced a judicial
new without trial. The IRA-allied the people of Northern Ireland inquiry into Bloody Sunday, the Sinn Fein party turns the annu­look to the future," McCurry1972 killing of 13 Catholic pro­
al commemoration of the said. 
testnrs by British soldiers in 
killings into a major rallying A spokeswoman for relatives Northern Ireland. 
point against British rule. of the Bloody Sunday dead said 
Thursday's move came as 
In Northern Ireland, Catholic "her heart lifted" at Blair's Blair seeks to bolster negotia­political and church leaders announcement. 
tions betwnen Protestants and welcomed the inquiry, and· "I thought at last a member 
Catholics on a new way to run some said "the healing process" of the British establishment, a 
the British province where could now begin. Protestant prime minister, understands 
about 3,000 people have been 
leaders, on the other hand, why Bloody Sunday is so impor­killed in three decades of vio­charged that old wounds will tant," Angela Heggarty said. 
lence. 
be reopened and said the Trying to reflect Protestant 
"Bloody Sunday was different 
inquiry could do more harm concerns, Blair made no apolo­because. where the state's own 
than good. gy and praised the conduct forces are concerned, we must "Why is Bloody Sunday differ­generally of British troops in 
be sure of the truth," Blair told or Northern Ireland. 
ent from Bloody Monday,
the !louse of Commons, citing 
Bloody Tuesday, or Blair's predecessor, John 
new evidence given to Brit<J:in Wednesday?" the Rev. Ian Major, announced in 1995 that from the Irish government. 
Paisley, leader of the hard-line the British government has 
Blair said a British judge, 
Democratic Unionist Party, accepted that those slain had 
Lord Saville, will head the new demanded in the House of not been armed. 
inquiry, sitting with two judges 
Commons. While Widgery concluded 
who are likely to be appointed 
In Dublin, Irish Prime that some of the soldiers' from the Commonwealth, the Minister Bertie Ahern said it shooting "bordered on the 
54-nation association of Britain 
was only right to hold a new reckless," he also said the IRA and its former colonies. 
inquiry. In its own investiga­shot at soldiers first and that Catholic nationalists, angered tion, the results of which were some of those slain may have 
by what they saw as a white­turned over to the British gov­been handling guns or explo­
wash report in 1972 by 
ernment several months ago, sives. 

Use Observer classifieds! 

Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. 

A man accused of stealing rare lithographs valued at up to $50,000 from Princeton University's art library eight years ago has been arrested after returning from New Mexico. 
Jordan Rodgers, 42, surren­dered to authorities Tuesday. He pleaded innocent at his arraignment. 
Authorities tracked Rodgers down by telephone in Albuquerque last week. He had been indicted in 1992 in absen­tia on charges of theft and criminal mischief. 
In March 1990, an art librari­an stopped a man after a metal security strip in one of the prints sounded the alarm. The man dropped a notebook and ran out. 

Saturday January 31 2PM Showing of Th·e Band Played On 
[Montgomery Theater-LaFortune] 
Monday February 2 
7PM Panel Discussion: The Catholic Response to AIDS [Debartolo 129] 
Wednesday February 4 Friday February 6 Sunday February 8 
7PM Showing of Philadelphia 7PM-9PM Open Viewing 12PM-5PM Open Viewing 
[Montgomery Theater-LaFortuneJ 7PM Open Ceremonies 4PM Closing Ceremonies (}ullt OiltJlttyecl ttf Thursday February 5 Sabarday February 7 5T£P..i.JV ("£JVTE/l 7PM Jeanne White-Ginder 12PM-SPM Open Viewing Mother of Ryan White 
[Library Auditorium! 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, January 30, I998 
THE OBSERVER 


NoTRE DAME O~HCE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's O~HCF.: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergasr Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Hei,(er Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichal>ki News Editor... . ..... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager. .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................ Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor .......................... Joey Gawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor .......................Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of the Universiry ofNmre Dame du Lac and Sa.inr Mary's College. 1r docs nm necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeirher msrirution. The nr:ws is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edicorials represenr rhc opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, Nr:ws Edi[()r, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saim Mary's Editor. Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lctrcr~ and Inside Columns prcscnr the views of rhc authors, and nm neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  63 I-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  63 I -53B  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
AccC'nt/Saim Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpomt  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.cdu  
t;cnerallnformarion  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Holistic prayer more mainstream than you think 
Q. Didyou do it? 

Homosexuality May Not Be About 'Choices' 
I always find the debate over homusex­u ality interesting. Why is it that people must dictate to each other how one should live? If what I am doing does not really hurt anyone and I am an adult, is it not my choice and right to do it? Now I am not gay, but most of the gay people I have talked to always said that there was a certain "wrongness" that they felt when they were leading a straight lifestyle, and this almost immediately went away when they adopted a gay lifestyle. "It just felt right" was the phrase I most often heard. 
Also, it is widely known that certain areas of the brain in homosexual men tend to be more like women's brains. This would lead me to believe that homosexu­ality is either a genetic phenomenon or something in early development. Neither of these arc choices. I will get back to why the "choices" word is important. 
becausn they arn diiTicult to unrawl.
I also like to listen to the "experts" on . Back to choke. Now if homosexuality isthis subject. Now I must confess I did not not a ehoice, for whawvnr rnason, tlwn go to Dr. Jeffrey Santinover's talk. Most of' you must rnalizn that the homosnxual isthem are the same; thny attempt to slam not rnally choosing in tlw s<unn way you current scientific evidenee without having did not choose blun nyns. Are wn going toany of their own. I don't know the profes­decide on1~ day that all blue-nyed or messysioilal background of Santinover, but he peopln are bad and rwnd eounsrding'?
does have a few puzzling ideas. He is quot­People, many times, seem strange to me.
ed on page 6 of The Observer saying, We would like evnryone to be similar to"Heritable does not mean genetie." 
ourselves. Difference upsets us. Wn getWell, actually it does mean genetic· in uncoml'ortabln with different rnligions, col­many cases. In quantitative genetic terms, ors, and sexual choices. But on the otherwhich is the branch of genetics that usual­hand, we love diversity-just considerly analyzes complex traits such as this, our food. Even the most outspoknn bigots heritability means that part of the genetic love pizza and Chinesn food. You ean'td·etermination of the phenotype can be piek and ehoose wlwre you havn diversitypassed on (i.e. heritable). Now I, as well as and where you don't. It's time to slop thisThe Observer, could be taking the good kind of thing and concentrate on moredoctor out of context, but something does meaningful issues like education, hunger, seem amiss if this kind of basie error is the environment, and just getting along. 
made. Now I do agree with Santinover ~hen he says that the genetic picture is not resolved for homosexuality, but this Ken Filchakdoes not mean that it is incorrect; it's just 
Graduate Srudcnr. Department of Biology
not certain yet. In reality, the genetics of 
January 2H, 1998
most complex traits are not well worked out. Not because they arc not genetic, but 
Julit-Ferraro gives us an impor­tant caution about the dangers of "feel good" spirituality in her Jan. 28 column, "A Holistic Approach to Pmyer?" but goes a little too far. I write not as an nxpert on tho sub­jeet, much less a person of deep prayer, but I 'Nfite anyway to briefly draw attPntion to that equally important "space" in this ca..'ie between "going just far enough" and "going a bit too far." 
I would be a fool to suggest that sf' If-sacrifice and love of GocVneigh­bor are not at the heart of Christianity, but a Cross-centered spirituality of Ferraro's particular kind that disparagns "balance" in life and the "clutter" of one's own personality is, I suggest, misguided for two reasons. First. it wrongly presupposes that orthodox Christianity -including orthodox Cntholicisrn -does not already have a pluralism of forms of spiritu­ality, prayer, and theology. (Ferraro does cite the example of several saint.<;, but she r(~fers to them as ossentially expressivo of one type, the normative or correct type in her view. over-against "holistic pro· grams.") Moreover, Ferraro's approach to the problem seems to prevent the possibility of new spiri­tualities arising in ow· day and into the future, an approach which seems to be inconsistent with the fact that various Christian spirituali­ties arrivC'd and developed at differ­ent times in history, and wore truly innovative in their own time. 
Second, and more to the point, the notion of holistic prayer Ferraro dis­misses out of hand is directly relat­ed to the simple, eminently healthy idea that God is not at war with the person and that God is very much interested in the subjedive dimen­sions of one's life-experience­indeed, what other experiences could one have?-and one's per­sonhood. Without denying the objec­tive dimension of one's salvation, one wonders, after all. what is left of us to commune with God and neigh­bor without such formative experi­ences. If prayer is dialogue, how is it possible that one of the partners is, in effect, if I can fairly insert . Ferraro's words here, "not the least bit dependent on how she 'feels'"? All of this is to suggest that what starts out a..<; a critique of "New Age" spirituality quickly becomes, inad­vertently or not, a critique of a very significant stream of Christian spiri­tuality, one that docs not ignore the complexity, ''clutter," and pain that goes into the making of a-life, but that aims for integral development and ~balance" to which God invites us. Moreover, this is not inconsistent with cultivating silence in prayer. 
If St. Ignatius is right about "imd­ing God in all things," perhaps we should be less quick to dismiss experiences of God we fmd quirky. True, Jesus probably did not "have a masseuse" (but how do I really know? The New Testament is not a history book), but he was a good Jew who engaged in prayer, prac­tices and rituals the typical Christian -like myself-would fmd odd at frrst look. My overall point, though, is that itls entirely legitimate to possess a holistic spiri­tuality, and understand and partic­ipate in prayer, properly under· stood, that is about "me." And it's sometimes pretty crowded in here. 
James BaJJ Graduate Srudenc January 28, 1998 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
U/Ut., 8R/3N~ A9 YOU CAN IMA61Ne, lflllHA 6fWI(Jf3tll<e Y()(J~ 7HATUIA9 f.KJ~ PeAt.. I HAP 70 CAU YaiR MOM TWIC8 7lJFINI?OiiTIAIII/3R& 
!filli.UlA9 FO~/N(3 }OU~ 51J8SCR/f7T!ON 7lJ "HU5TI£R'~I 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Life is a wave, which in 
no two consecutive moments of its existence is composed of the same parti­cles." 
-John Tyndall 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, January 30, 1998 page 11 
• CAPITOL CoMMENTS 
Clinton sLatest Woes Come From Right-Wing Critics 
Bombshell allegations of perjury and obstruc-Lewinsky came to Washington as a 21-year-old tion of justice against President Clinton and his like so many before her. I have seen many friends are rooted in subpoenas from the Paula interns come and go from our nation's capital. 
================
Jones suit. At the heart of 
the matter are two women -one, a former Bush White 
G 

House employee with an ax 
aryto grind against Clinton's attorney, and the other, a naive 24-year-old who is 
Caruso star-struck with the power of Washington. The two have met their fates as a result of the cash cow con­servative "non-profit" orga­nization that is providing Jones with money and support in her suit of Clinton. 
Both women testified last Saturday during the Jones suit against Clinton. Monica Lewinsky denied under oath that she ever had· any affair with Clinton, but Linda Tripp revealed that she had tapes of Lewinsky telling of an affair. The support of Jones by right-wing conservatives was finally paying off against the Clinton White House. 
Longtime UP! White House reporter Helen Thomas said it best when she recalled that unlike any other president she has covered over the decades, President Clinton has endured a constant barrage of attacks from those conserv­ative zealots who view Clinton as the symbol of everything they despise. "This is steady," said Thomas. "This president has never known a moment of peace." 
Daily public White House tours are the most recent examples of Ms. Thomas' observation. During the week of the 25th anniversary of Roe 
v. Wade, pro-life activists were lining up by the hundreds for a tour. Citing their constitutional freedom of speech, they walked through the White House dressed in t-shirts that portray graphic pictures of late-term abortion proce­dures. 
"We are going through the house of the most powerful man in the world who has a radical, pro-choice, pro-abortion position," said one spokesperson for the pro-life group in an inter­view outside the White House. Pro-choice groups lauded the president as taking "princi­pled, courageous positions." 
The feeding frenzy prevailing in Washington has come about from two specific incidents dur­ing the last quarter century. Watergate set the stage for the press to "dig" for the smallest fact and question the smallest detail in presidential administrations. House speaker Newt Gingrich's revolution for Republicans to take control of Congress featured a healthy dose of right wing politics which is "take no prisoners." His break from the congenial approach of his Republican predecessors created the current hostility between Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill. 
The press immediately scrutinized every word White House spokesmen and the president offered. When the president denied the allega­tions in his first of three interviews during the day the story broke by saying "there is no improper relationship," reporters asked why he did not say "was." Later, the president said the "relationship was not sexual" in his second interview and that "there wasn't improper rela­tions" during his third interview. 
Initially forgotten throughout efforts to find facts is an assessment of the characters involved and the motivations behind their actions. Paula Jones, with the backing of conservative money, is pursuing a $2 million suit. Jones is having her 15 minutes of fame while the conservatives are bashing Clinton with massive legal fees along with their fishing expedition. Their goal is to financially ruin Clinton, and they had initially hoped to at least cripple Clinton's ability and effectiveness in office. Now they are drooling at the possibility of impeachment. 
Linda Tripp, a former Bush employee, recently wore a recording device for the FBI. She previ­ously recorded her conversations with Lewinsky, and then approached independent prosecutor Ken Starr (Bush's former Solicitor General) this month with those tapes. She is upset with the president's attorney. Tripp had alleged last August that President Clinton made a pass at a White House aide. The attorney was quoted in Newsweek as saying that Tripp "is not to be believed." Tripp is determined to maintain her credibility by using Lewinsky to topple Clinton. 
The former White House intern Monica Some have grandiose plans
to.be congressional represen­
tatives by the age of 30 and 
president by 45. Most are 
mesmerized with the mys­
tique of power as well as 
betrayed by their naive per­
ceptions of power. Almost all 
of them have college social 
skills at best which are pul­
verized in Washington's 
sophisticated society. 
Nobody knows all of the facts yet. Lewinsky may have taken a flirtatious gesture and believed it to be an affair, or she may have had an affair with the president. One thing is cer­tain. People in their early twenties are not the social adults they think they may be, concen­trating on friendships and appearances. 
Lewinsky has admitted on one of the tapes that she has "lied throughout her entire life." Only time will tell if she told the truth, tried to impress her friends, or if she may have psycho­logical problems. It will not be the first nor the last time a young person embellished the truth. Tripp's manipulation of Lewinsky to attack Clinton is the classic example of how the power game is played in Washington. That too will not end with this case. 
So much is quickly and recklessly made about anyone involved that innocent people are need­lessly suffering. The president's longtime friend and confidant, Vernon Jordan, has been men­tioned in conjunction with this matter. Jordan, a respected attorney, referred Lewinsky to employers who might hire her after she left her Pentagon job and to lawyers once she was sub­poenaed in December. His networking with her is a customary practice throughout all of Washington's circles. 
U.N. ambassador Bill Richardson interviewed Lewinsky in October, well before any subpoena or taped conversation. He conducted himself in a proper and legal manner. Yet, his conduct is now being questioned as somehow "protecting" the president. 
Former White House advisors George Stephanopoulos and David Gergen agreed that the matter is either a vicious fabrication or a ridiculously stupid action by the president. Stephanopoulos, now with ABC News, said that he did not know if he should be sad or angry or both. "Either the president is a victim of one of the gravest injustices that any president has ever faced," he said, "or he has done something that is unforgivable that can cripple his presi­dency." 
Gergen, an editor with U.S. News and World Report, commented that "we are facing the worst act of self-destruction or the worst smear of any president in the 20th century." He is quick to add that if we study those involved in the matter, we find Clinton admitting to an affair with Gennifer Flowers in the 1970s under oath during the Paula Jones deposition. Knowing the law and telling the truth under oath is something the president will do when sworn in a court of law and something he would encourage to others. 
AI Hunt of the Wall Street Journal agrees with Gergen. Hunt believes that Jordan is too good of a lawyer to ever ask anyone to commit perjury as Lewinsky allegedly told Tripp on tape. Hunt believes that Clinton is also too well-versed in the law to ever ask Jordan to instruct Lewinsky to obstruct justice. 
It is now a waiting game in Washington with the press grasping at any detail that may shed more light on the matter. I do not believe that the president or Vernon Jordan are so naive that they would let a 24-year-old ruin their careers. Time will reveal the merits, if any, of this case. ABC's Sam Donaldson said it best when he commented, "The mills of the gods grind very slowly, but their grist is very fine." 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the 
U.S. House ofRepresentatives for 18 years and for the International Union ofElectronics Workers (!UE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is dchottline@hotmail. com. 
The view expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE OBSERVER 
A Little Laughter to Lighten the Load 
Semesters always begin with feelings of anticipation and excitement as we are faced with new classes, old friends, familiar faces and unfamiliar routines. However, the excitement has a way of quickly fading as we are once again saddled with the hassles of writing papers, taking exams, pulling all-nighters, fighting colds, and living on too little sleep and too much caffeine. Many of us quickly become impatient for the carefree days of spring break, which seem to be eons away. 
Jaclyn Villano 
It is far too easy to become discouraged and disillu­sioned. And it is at this time that we are in danger of for­getting how lucky we all are to be at this place called Notre Dame. 
I didn't realize that I had already begun to forget until I was sitting at Mass last weekend. Crammed between my friends ip the last pew in the Basilica, I admit that I was having trouble focusing on what was being said at the alter. I was lost in my own thoughts, as was each of my friends. Having just been through a rough couple of days together, we were all tense, weary and tired. 
I don't know what made me look over at the little boy sit­ting in the next pew, but when I saw him, I had to smile. He had the face of an angel, and the mischievous grin of a little devil, as he sat quietly with his parents. Suddenly, he turned to his father, looked up at him questioningly and said, "Butt?" 
His father didn't seem to understand what this comment meant, but he looked down· at his child and smiled. Apparently, this did not satisfy the child. Again, he looked at his father and said, "Butt?" When no reply came, the boy grew louder, and began repeating his statement over and over, 
"Butt? Butt? 
"BUTT? BUTT?" 
His father tried to admonish him, but the little boy took off, and ran behind the pews, shouting, "BUTT! BUTT! BUTT!" The people around us turned to look at him. Realizing that he had captured everyone's attention, the little boy's face broke into a grin. He pointed to his mother and loudly proclaimed, "Mama. MAMA! MAMA!" 
There was nothing especially amusing about the situa­tion, but watching this cheerful, lighthearted child some­how seemed to ease the stress we had all been feeling. At the other end of the pew, my friend began to laugh quietly. Before long, her chuckling exploded into full-fledged laughter, and our pew began to vibrate as she fought to regain her composure. The rest of my friends and I joined in, feeling such a wonderful release from the tension that had been weighing on all of us. Soon, four guys in the pew in front of us began to shake with laughter. 
Their snickering was contagious, as a family across the aisle took notice and themselves erupted into giggles, soon followed by the ushers who were standing behind us. Before I knew it, all within earshot of this little boy were trying desperately to stifle their laughter and hide their smiles. 
I realize that Mass is not an appropriate time or place for this type of occurrence. But I think God was telling each person who heard that happy, little child to lighten up, to find our smiles and, despite the tensions of day to day life that plague all of us, to never forget how lucky we are to have all that we do. 
It was at this point, as I sat in church surrounded by laughter and squished between my closest friends, that I remembered. And I wondered how I could have forgotten so easily. 
We all forget. Sometimes, buried beneath obligations and responsibilities, we even give in to frustration and disillu­sionment. This behavior is understandable and normal, but it is a waste. These are some of the best years of our lives, and they are passing far too quickly. We must do our best to remember that each day we have here is a gift. 
I do not want to look up at the Golden Dome 10 years from now and be hit with the realization of how good I had it while I was here. I want to live that realization now, to remember each day how fortunate I am to be in this envi­ronment. I want to spend my days here laughing, sur­rounded by friends, learning as much as I can and living as well as I can. 
It doesn't get much better than this. 
Jaclyn Villano is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. Her column appears every other Friday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
ACCENT 
page 12 Friday, January 30, 1998 
Campus shenanigans offers sociial commentary and lots of laughs 
The Keenar1 Revue ' 98 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Twin brothers Patrick and Timothy Mousaw awe the audience with their juggling talent in last night's Keenan Revue. 
By KRISTI KUTSCH 
The 22nd annual Keenan Revue had all 
the classic elements that keep students beg­
ging for tickets year after year. 
It had the Breen Phillips "fat" jokes, the "PW girls need to shave" C<lmments, the "Zahm's gay" quacks and the typical Saint Mary's slams. It had the Keenan Revue band and the Keenan News slide show, and it had the hilarity that makes it infamous. 
Last night's show was the first of a series of three shows to be held at the O'Laughlin Auditorium on Saint Mary's campus. 
The show opened with the Keenan Revue's rendition of the hit song "I Want to Rock and Roll All Night," featuring the vocals of Chris Burke and Aaron Oakland. The song "2 a.m." closed the first act, and the talent of the guitarists left spectators speechless. 
One omission in this year's program was the piano-playing abilities of Tim and Ryan O'Neill. The two brothers have been a con­stancy in the show for the past few years. Yet, in their place was the stunning perfor­mance of Keenan junior Josh Gerloff. Gerloff offered the audience his wit and talent by creating new lyrics to numerous Dave Matthews' songs. The subject matter of his songs varied from poking fun at the dining halls to girls and other Notre Dame griev­ances. 

In comparison to the past few years. the Hevup, fell short of its prndecessors. The first half was funny and amusing, but the second half lacked the originality and wit of previous years. 
Three skits that weren't worth the time were "How Was Your Break," "Soft and Wet" and "Tonight We Hide." 
The skits to watch for are: "Dormware," "COBA Cobana" and "An Inept Discourse on Women." These performances offer a new look on many aspects of Notre Dame academic and social life. 

By MATT BUTTEL 
alternative for the of-age crowd. Accent Irish Connection Correspondent "We're targeting legal drinkers, so that allp,vi­ates a lot of the problems. Juniors and seniors 
T
he Irish Connection is the culmina­have a new home. I'd love to welcome tlwm tion of many years of bar experi­with a great week full of drink specials and hos­lmce and patronage. An idea con­pitality." ceived by Chris Hottenberg and "This opening week should be a great time," .lames Granger. their establishment cap­adds the director of entertainment and spr.eial tures many elements of popular bar cui­events who happens to be a Stomper Bob vetm­turn and packages them with entertain­an. lie wants to make the Irish Connoction mont concepts not available in South Bend. Notre Dame's premier entertainment venue, 
"Our main goal is to provide the students combining talented deejays with exciting live of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­acts. "We've already booked local bands, and munity with a superior club where they I'm working on bringing the Mighty Mighty can relax or get crazy," states Hottenberg. Bosstones in March. I've got a lot regional and 
"Chris and I have worked student bars at national bands lined up, so look for some great ND for a few years, and we feel that now is shows." the right ljme to open. Students are tired The Irish Connectiun, locatP-d in the building of the samr. old scene and are looking for that formerly housed Jazzman's, is a bi-level something better," adds Granger. club with a dance club downstairs and game 
Both agree. "Our ideas looked terrific on room and lounge upstairs. Both levels have full paper. We just needed the right support bars and waitress service. It is located at 525 and staffing, and we think we've found it." North Hill St. in South Bend, about one and a 
"I've been hanging around bars all my half miles south of campus. Full security is pro-life, and the chanc.e to run a club of this vided, with a lighted parking lot one block west 
ealiber is a dream come true," claims bartending manager Paul Crowe. Crowe, a on the Niles Avenue entrance. The grand opening is scheduled for today at 8 p.m. senior at Notre Dame, feels that the Irish Connection will provide an exciting For more information please call (219) 233-8505. 
Friday, January 30, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
on St. John's. We know we "I don't know what it is," can't afford to have as bad a said shooting guard Keith
Men 
start we had on Wednesday." Friel. "We just come out in a 
continued from page 24 
among the nation's rebound­ers with 9. 9 per game and is beginning to lake on a larger role at the offensive end (15.1 ppg). 
"They are tough to beat, especially at home," comment­ed shooting guard Antoni Wyche. "We have to put Villanova behind us and move 
For that to happen, the Irish will have to step up their game at the defensive end. Against the Wildcats, Notre Dame (1 0-7, 4-5 in Big East) gave up an astonishing 33 points in just the first 12 min­utes. 
For the second consecutive game, MacLeod's squad fell behind 11-0 before the game was even three minutes old. 
funk sometimes. Sometimes we're able to dig ourselves out of the hole, but [this time] we couldn't." 
Van Gogh or just another starving artist? On Saturday, the picture may just get a little clearer. 
-
The Observer/John Daily St. John's senior guard is enjoying the best season of his college Derek Manner will have to play strong on the boards and control the career after being accused of not living up to his potential. He aver­ball inside the key to give the Irish a boost on offense. ages 18 points and 5 assists a game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES "Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's new location and check out the best Spring Break vacations around. Don't take a chance with an unkown agency or some 1-800 number. Limited space available, so book now! Anthony Travel, Inc. Lafortune Student Center 631-7080 ...ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR SPRING BREAK. GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE. LEISURE TOURS HAS PACKAGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. 1-800-838-8203. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon -Midnight CALL 631-COPY ILOST & FOUND I  IF YOU'RE THE BEST OJ AT NO THEN THE IRISH CON­NECTION WANTS YOU! SPIN AT NO'S BEST NEW NIGHT­CLUB. NEED NOT BE 21. CALL MATT @ 233-8505 FOR INFO. SUMMER CAMP EMPLOY­MENT Northern MN coed camp seeks enthusiastic, fun and dedicated counselors who enjoy working with kids in the outdoors. Instructors needed in Archery, Boardsailing, Camping Trips, Diving, Fencing, Riflery, Sailing, Swimming, Tennis, Waterskiing. Rep on UNO cam­pu~;> at LaFortune Feb 5 10-3 Camp Foley 218-543-6161 or staff@campfoley.com or www.campfoley .com COMPUTER HELP Set up IBM software. Knowledge of Filemaker 3.0, Lotus SmartSuite, Zip backup and scanning. Good pay. Call Ron 273-1717. FOR RENT WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 4 or 5 bedrm furnished house, w/d, sand volleyball, 119 N. St. Peter, 233-9947  2BEDRMHOUSEFORRENT GRANGER-WASHER, DRYER, REFRIG & STOVE. $695 MONTH PLUS SECURI­TY CALL BOB 232-6434 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAM­PUS. WASHER/DRYER SUM­MER OR FALL.272-6551 MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TOSHARE~BDRMHOME. INC. WASHER/DRYER, PHONE, SATELITE TV. 219-289-1357. CUTE 1-BDRM APT. $380 273-3996 NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097 POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 Bed 'N Breakfast Registry Try The Option A "Home Away From Home!" FB-Grad-Fr. Or.-JPW 219-291-7153 FOR SALE Beautiful Brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic Mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $225 219­862-2082  PERSONAL IRISH CONNECTION GRAND OPENING TONIGHT! SEE YOU AT 8 PM, 525 N. HILL ST! 233-8505 FOR INFO. HUGE OPEN PARTY! STOMPER BOB @ IRISH CONNECTION THIS SATUR­DAY NIGHT. BE THERE! I'm going to LONDON!!! SYR in a week and no, I don't plan on finding a date. But gosh do I have awesome shoes! ersucks MEL: Have the best 21st B-day ever! You finally caught up with me! luv erin Aikido -the gentle martial art Classes M 7-8:30, Rm 301 & F 7:30-9 Rm 219 in Rockne.Beginners class starts on Friday, Jan 30 7:30 after a demo of Dody Chang sensei from Chicago. Bring comfort­able clothes. Attention all Quad-Citians! The first ever Quad City party is tonight.  Hey G, Is Kino there? How fast can you two get to Santa Southa Bend. Oh and G, Bring your guitar. Logjam Rides again. From the ashes of every other band we have ever attempted, we shall rise like a Phoenix. Or at least like a really annoying piece of ash. Good times. Noodle salad. I think all the big women like me better than Bill. lo non ho problemi! Non me importa una fica secca. Abandon all hope, ye who enter here! If you're not naked, you're not news! "You must be hyper-fertile!" "I am NOT hyper-fertile." Wow, jeff, I haven't called you a tool in the classifieds lately. Just thought I'd tell you that I had corn for dinner the other night. The results were predi­catble. -Laura :D  Three meetings, that's talent. Student Senate doesn't like me. "That's should be a capital 'S."' I never claimed to be an editor. HAC, I can't wait to get physical with you today! Love, MAC I love Accent today! What a GREAT front page! I mean, beautiful design and all! I think all the big womenlike me better than Bill. What big women? Where's Dan when you really need him? I'm from the planet Sugar. It's only wonky when you hold it, KT! My favorite place is the 'ville. There will be no movie scripts in THESE classifieds! Why am I always the one asso­ciated with .... we can't print that word. Baby, it's 5 a.m., I must be crazy.  - 
If anyone at Thurs. Job Fair picked up a long black Evan Piccone woman's dress coat by mistake, call Mel issa at 4­0897. LOST: GOLD DOLFIN BRACELET if found plese call X 0649 WANTED Child care 1 to 3 afternoons per week. 12:30 to 5:30 for two girls ages 4 and 8 (8 year-old after 3:30). Transportation a big plus. Good pay. Call277­7071.  Furn. 1 bdrm apt., $400/mo, room, $200/mo. Private entrance, kitchen, utilities included, laundry, phone, 2 mn. N. of campus. Call 272­0615. ROOM4Rent $128+util Share house w/ grad stu Good neigh­borhd 280-5274 Need roommate. Close to cam­pus. $325/mo. 243-0491. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  Macintosh Classic w/ key­brd+Mouse+28.8 Modem. 634­2149 FOR SALE or TRADE: Honda CRX-HF '91. 85,500 miles. $6000. Call Eric: 234-2465. TICKETS WANTED-NO vs MIAMI B­Ball tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258-1111 I NEED UP TO 4 KEENAN REVIEW TIX FOR SAT.! WILL PAY$$$! JIM X1-5782  Look for a phone call letting you know the time and place. -A Tony Rossmiller and Bob Campeau Production Also known as ATRABCP Ever seen Mark in a bra? Check out pg. 12 -you won't forget it. The Grasshopper Lives ... We Know you Love the Grasshopper... John and kelly ­We don't get no love Love, CandC  Typecasting .... "Here on Gilligan's Island!" Haven't been to Siegfriend lately. Good thing. Mark-Congrats on London! Love, H Zurich, Milan .... Spring break, here I come!!!! These are GREAT shoes! Sparkly, silver, 3" heels .... Pop goes LaFortune! Wow, 4 a.m. and still fresh! Kicked out of THREE?  "Luke! Luke! Use the force, Luke!" Girl's Night Out is a blast! American Spaces. What the heck? But you HAVE to see these SHOES! Poor Cavato! I don't like when the news peo­ple take over and I don't get any! Two columns, fifteen minutes, five people ­we dit it! Almost  

~---~­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 30, 1998 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
A Tale of Two Recruits ••• 
Garrity and Lopez will face offthis weekend 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
Sports Wri1er 
During one late afternoon in March of 1994, St. John's fans were glued to the television set. reveling in the decision of the USA Today consensus high sehool player of the year's decision to attend their uni­versity. 
That same afternoon. a handful of Irish fans were contemplating if a little-known power forward from Colorado would be able to crack the starting line-up by his senior year. 
Nearly four years later,

-
Felipe Lopez and Pat Garrity will battle tomorrow at Madison Square Garden in New York City. Garrity's accomplishments have eclipsed Lopez' so far. Yet, their status before play­ing eollege ball speaks vol­umes about the right and wrong way for a college bas­ketball team to rebuild. St. John's and Notre Dame both have a history of excel­lence. St. John's appeared in the NCAA tournament every year from 1964-1993 exeept for one, 1990, when they won the post-season NIT. Tough times hit the Red Storm when they failed to sign stars from their traditional recruiting bases in inner-city New York and northern New Jersey. St. John's has not had a post-season beyond the Big East tournament since 1993. The replacement for hall of fame coach Lou Carnesecca, Brian Mahoney, was a failure. To resurrect their program, administrators bypassed big­name coaches in their search for a eoach, and hired Fran Fraschilla, the small-time coach of the suecessful Manhattan College Spartans. Fraschilla had two key pieces to work with: the celebrated Lopez and his fellow McDonald's All-American Zendon Hamilton. Both were recruits from the New York area, and both still had loads of unproven poten­tial. Building on their reputa­
-
tion, Fraschilla was able to recruit two of the best players in the New York area, Ron Artest and Heggie Jessie. At the same time, he instilled an intense work ethic on his underachieving stars. 
As a result, the Hed Storm stand at 16-6 overall and 8-3 in the Big East in Fraschilla's second season. 
Notre Dame, however, is another story. 
In 1991, eoach Digger Phelps left unceremoniously after a 12-20 finish. Like St. John's, Notre Dame had been extremely successful in the past, recording 17 seasons with at least twenty wins between 1968 and 1989. Also like the Heel Storm, the Irish had strayed from their tradi­tional recruiting base in Chicago and Washington, DC. 
The Irish hired John MaeLeod, who holds 707 NBA victories, to right the ship. Unfortunately, for their own reasons, Irish administrators refused to give MacLeod more than one-year contracts. Fraschilla was handed a multi-year deal without a proven track record at a big­time program. 
St. John's took a risk that has paid off so far. Recruits who like his system can be 
reassured that he will be around to employ it for years to come. Irish recruits face the prospect of a new coach com­ing in with an entirely new system which might not suit their talents. 
Further, the Irish have not returned to their traditional areas for recruiting. Old recruiting ties have probably frayed or even broken by now. 
Next year's class promises to be the best of the MacLeod tenure. 
But does anyone really believe that he will be able to secure blue chip recruits from Kentucky again in the future without coach Tubby Smith of Kentucky reeling them in? ­
These recruiting practices have left the Irish without a single player acknowledged as top 100 in the nation during their senior year in high school. 
Admittedly, MacLeod struck gold with Garrity in 1994, but I guarantee you that he would rather have the number one recruit in the nation for next season than an unknown not in the top 100. 
Like Fraschilla, his players are disciplined and intense on the court. Yet, they simply don't have the same talent level beyond Garrity. 
Thus, St. John's should score a victory in tomorrow's game. Their statistics indicate the depth on the squad. Four players are in double figures: Lopez at 18.6 ppg, Hamilton at 16.1, Artest at 11.2, and Postell at 9.6. 
The Irish have only two: Garrity at 23.3 and Hickey, who has struggled as of late, at 10.1. Keith Friel has excelled recently, averaging 
8.8 ppg. The Red Storm's depth 
allows different players to contribute throughout the game. 
The Irish often look helpless on the court with Garrity on the bench. 
Take the teams' first meet­ing at the Joyce Center on December 30. 
St. John's pulled away in the second half and won 79-69. Garrity hit for 27 points on 9­for-17 shooting. Antoni Wyche had a career night with 20 points. 
Yet, without Garrity around, he was unable to produce. The Irish bench provided little support, adding only four points in 25 minutes {three of which came on a three-pointer by Friel). 
St. John's, on the other hand, had four players in dou­ble figures, overcoming a bad night from Lopez {17 points on 6-for-15 shooting). 
To win tomorrow, the Irish must spread the ball around on offense and get at least two other players involved besides Garrity. 
On defense, MacLeod needs to break with tradition and test the Red Storm's outside shootin!: with a two-three zone. 
In March, both Garrity and Lopez will be preparing for NBA pre-draft camps. Unfortunately for the Irish, it looks like Lopez will be facing opponents in the round of 64 while Garrity hones his skills at the Rock. 
Recent losses to two sub­.500 teams, Seton Hall and Villanova, are crushing Garrity's chances. 
MacLeod faces the difficult task of making the less talent­ed Irish perform consistently to avoid that prospect from becoming a reality. 
Classical Announcer of the Month 

Abdul-Jabbar told to seek counseling 
Associa1ed Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Retired basketball star Kareem Abdui-Jabbar, accused of attacking a man during a traffic dispute, was ordered Thursday to obtain anger man­agement counseling so that a court may consider a civil com­promise of criminal charges, a city attorney's spokesman said. 
West Los Angeles Municipal Court Commissioner Gary L. Bindman ordered the NBA's alltime leading scorer to obtain 36 hours of counseling and pay $5,000 to Jeopardy, a Los Angeles Police Department program for at-risk youth, said spokesman Mike Qualls. 
Hobert Shapiro, Abdui­Jabbar's attorney, did not immediately return a phone call for comment. Abdui­Jabbar was not required to attend the hearing and wasn't in court. 
Abdul-Jabbar had been scheduled for arraignment on misdemeanor charges of bat­tery and false imprisonment, but that was postponed. 
Shapiro made the motion for civil compromise, a court­approved agreement between a defendant and a victim to settle a case. Deputy City Attorney Mitchell Fox objected, saying the count of false imprison­ment constitutes potentially felonious conduct which could make the case ineligible for a civil compromise, Qualls said. 
The commissioner agreed to reconsider the motion during arraignment rescheduled for March 19, after Abdul-.Jabbar complies with the court orders, Qualls said. 
Jerry Cohen, a Universal Studios music editor, accused Abdui-Jabbar of attacking him on April 20 after a traffic dis­pute. Last week, Cohen and Abdul-Jabbar settled a civil lawsuit. Terms of the settle­ment were not disclosed. 
According to prosecutors, the incident began when Cohen was waiting to turn his car into a driveway at a mini-mall and Abdui-Jabbar, behind Cohen. began honking. 
Abdui-Jabbar allegedly stopped, got out of his car and attacked Cohen, pushing his face against a plate glass win­dow, then shoving him to the ground. Cohen was taken to a hospital and treated for bruis­es. 
~OBSERVER 
IIIIMIJIMMIIMMIWIIJ1Uitl!ti!WQMIII91U\i1Cit.iii$1Miliii!\W 
is now accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encour­aged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding ofaccounting prin­ciples. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Heather Cocks by 5 p.m., Tuesday, February 3, 1998. For additional infor­mation about the position, contact Business Manager Tom Roland at 631­5313, Managing Editors Jamie Heisler and Dan Cichalski at 631-4541 or Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast at 631-4542. Applicants are also encour­aged to stop by the office at 314 LaFortune with any questions. 
r----------------------------------,
I ·~ •PRIVATE IN ROOM I
I ~ ~ I 
I JACUZZI SPAS (FOR 2) I 
I •FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST I 
I I 
1 •FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN I 
I I
I •FREE LOCAL CALLS, FAX I 
I •KITCHENETIES I 
: ® 
lz72..9ooo I! 
:NOTR~au!,~o~'~"d!,!~~!~~~!~,.!~~-OFF! M@ bil : 
I (no 10 required) QUAUTY RATED I 
I
L__________-·______!:8~a,!_E~ ~ .:_~8~ ~S23!! :_S~u~ '::n! ~ _ .J 

.-------------------­
---~­~ • ·-·-~ .--. • .. _ ... _._______ ,. • • o o • o-.. ~ r--• --------------•· 
-~-~ ~--~-~ ~-·· 
Friday, January 30, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Thank you, Notre Dame. 
Because of your generosity in 
And the Winners were . . . responding to this year's United Way campaign ... 
faculty and staff contributions totaled $259,331, a new record and a 37 percent increase over our 1996 total 
1,433 faculty and staff mem­bers made contributions, a 55 percent increase over 1996 
the Notre Dame community helped United Way of St. Joseph County raise a total of $3,763,410­99 p~rcent of which will stay in St. Joseph County providing help and support to our neighbors, our friends, and, perhaps, our own families. 




• ' ..... _ ...... < #_....,....._.. .. . LCI" ;: .,. ""~ ~ ,....~-.. 411 --~. i..--... .. 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, January 30, 1998 
& 
• HOCKEY 
ND captain finalist for award 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Uame senior center 

SttW(l Noble is among five col­
lt~ge hockey players who, 
because of 
their strong 
commitment 
to their 
communities 
and their 
teams. have 
been named 
finalists for 
tho t 998 Noble 
Hockey 
Humanitarilut Award. 
Tho award is presented 
annually to college hockey's 
finest citizen. 
The other finalists include: 
Casey Hankinson, a senior for­
ward and two-year captain at 
the University of Minnesota; 
Tyler Harlton, a senior defense­
man and captain of Michigan 
State; Erik Raygor, a senior for­
ward and two-year captain at 
the University of Wisconsin; 
and Eri.n Schmalz, a senior for· 
ward and two-t.ime captain of 
the Cornell University women's 
hockey team. 
The nnnounc:ement of this 
year's Hockey Humanitarian 
recipient will be made Friday, 
April 3 in Boston. Mass .• as part 
of the festivities surrounding 
the NCAA Finals, which will be 
held April 2-4 at the 
FleetCenter. 
Each of the finalists will receive a trophy prior to his final regular-season home game, with Noble scheduled to be honored prior to the March 7th game versus Michigan at tho Joyeo Center Fieldhouse. 
Noble. a Hhodes Scholar finalist. owns the highest grado-point average of all Nott·e Dam.e student-athletes, with a 3.958 cumulative GPA thl'Ough the 1997 spring somes­tor. Noble was voted a GTE sec­ond team Aeademic all­American in 1996-97. 
On the ice, Noble has missed just one game during his career (playing in 134 of 135) and is currently tied for second on tho Notre Dame team with 23 points (8 goals, 15 assists). He was voted Notre Dame's best defensive forward as a sopho­more and junior. 
Noble, who came back from back surgery prior to his fresh­man season, received the 1997 CCI-lA Terry Flanagan Award. 

TITANIC (PG-13)DIGITAL 12:00 4:00 8:15 DEEP RISING (R) DIGITAL 1:1S 4:15 700 9•40 FALLEN (R) 9:30 HARD RAIN (R) 
12:30 2:45 5.15 740 9:50 
GOOD Will ~IUNTING (R) 1:30 6:30 7:15 10:00 MOUSE HUNT (PG) 11:45 2:15 4:45 6:50 SPICE WORLD (PG) 12:15 2:30 5:00 7:30 9:45 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brackets] AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) 
[1 :001 4:00 7:00 9:50 GREAT EXPECTATIONS (R) [1:30} 4:30 7:15 9:45 
FULL MONTY (R) [2:00] 4:45 7:30 9:40 

• SPRING TRAINING UPDATE 
Twins shop KncJblauch, Pirates set sights high 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Cleveland Indians general manager John Hart said Thursday he has stopped talk­ing with Minnesota about a trade for Chuck Knoblauch, while Atlanta's John Sehuerholz called a deal for the All-Star second baseman "very unlikely." 
"We don't intend to make any more moves until we get to spring training and see what our team looks like," said Sehuerholz. the Braves' general manager. 
The Twins want to trade Knoblauch. a four-time All-Star and career .304 hitter, before spring training. The New York Yankees are still in the run­ning, with owner .George Steinbrenner, general manager Bob Watson and manager Joe Torre expressing interest. 
The Twins said general man­ager Terry Ryan was out of the office and unavailable to com­ment. 
Hart said his most recent con­versation with Ryan was early this week. The Twins reported­ly asked for two pitchers, including Chad Ogea. Cleveland was unwilling to part with pitching and take on Knoblauch's $6 million annual salary. 
"At some point, you have to realize that you can't have a rotisserie team and say, 'Here's a good name, let's put him here no matter how much he costs,' "Hart said. "He's a player we were certainly justified in going after. It just didn't make sense for this organization." 
Schuerholz said, "It's very unlikely in my mind" that the Braves would land Knoblauch. 

Tony l'ernandez and Bip Roberts, who played second base for Cleveland last season, both have signed with other teams. The Indians plan to go to spring training with Carlos Garcia, Enrique Wilson and Jeff Branson competing for the job. 
"We're going in without any preconceived notions at all," Hart said. 
Hart also said talks were dead with agent Scott Boras about free-agent pitcher Andy Benes. If Ogea had been traded to Minnesota, Benes was seen as a replacement -but one that would cost $6 million-to-$7 million a year for four years. 
"I don't think the deal we talked about with Andy Benes ever really had a chance to materialize,'' Hart said. 
As for Seattle's Randy Johnson, Hart said he hasn't talked to the Mariners about the left-hander since December. 
"My sense is, Seattle is going to hold Randy Johnson," hn said. 
PITTSBUHGII 
The Pittsburgh Pirates start spring training two weeks from Friday with far fewer players and much greater expectations. 
A year ago, they hauled a major league-record 70 players to camp -about the same as NFL teams -but there were only a few recognizable names to casual fans. After dumping a dozen veteran players and mil­lions in payroll, they were uni­versally picked to lose 100 games. . 
They didn't. They managed to stay in the NL Central race until the final weekend despitn a 78­84 record, getting excellent mileage from a mostly namn­less starting staff and career years from retreads such as Kevin Young, Turner Ward and Mark Smith. 

"Team sueeess took prece­dence over individual suecnss, and -that's why we wore suc­cessful,'' gennral manager Cam Bonifay said Thursday. "We wercn 't worried wlwn people went down, or if wn played a bad gamn." 
But as manager Gene Lamont and several players complete a three-week fan caravan this weekend. they arc beginning to realize the pessimism of 1997 has been displaced by the wild­ly enthusiastic optimism of 1998. 
The Pirates remain a work in progress, a youthful team with question marks at first base, third base, shortstop and center field, yet their fans arn telling them they expect morn -more progress and. especially. more wins. 
"We have a different stan­dard here than we had a year ago,'' Lamont said. 

A recent survey in Fortune~ magazine ranked Deloitte & Touche 14th on their inaugural list of 100 Best Companies to Work for in America. 
Growth, opportunity, and success in your career are bound to happen faster in a creative, energized environment that empowers you to reach your professional goals. As you compare the advantages offered by various companies, give some thought to the balanced focus and limitless possibilities that brought Deloitte &: Touche LLP to our status on this prestigious list. 
"Our goal is to create a workplace that provides superior client service through dedicated profession­als who are provided exciting challenges and the flexibility to balance those challenges with their personal lives."}. Michael Cook, CEO. 
At Deloitte &: Touche, we are as passionate about our people maintaining a satisfying work/life balance as we are about superior client service. We've proven it is not only possible, but profitable to do both. When you study the outstanding array of pro­gressive employee benefits and initiatives that can help you balance personal and professional priori­ties, you'll understand why we have one of the best retention rates among professional services firms. 
Our annual growth rate of over 23% creates tremendous advancement opportunities, while our 
7.4 billion dollar global organization provides the resources, choices and support you need for long term success. Extraordinary growth in our Chicago office demands that we attract and retain a cadre of promising financial professionals eager to build notable careers and play a role in our dynamic future. 
Explore the rewarding opportunities in Tax, Accounting & Audit and Enterprise Risk Services. 
Our National Deloitte & Touche Partners will be conducting summer intership interviews for students attending the University of Notre Dame on Feb. 5th & 6th, 1998. 
Why shouldn't you begin your career with a company that understands the value of working with you to attain your goals? Please visit the Career & Placement Office to schedule a time to interview with us. 
If unable to attend on-campus interviews, please sencllfax/e-mail your resume to: Deloitte &: Touche LLP, Attn: Molly Freeman, 180 N. Stetson, Chicago, IL 60601. FAX: 312/946-2778 E-mail: mfreeman@dttus.com 
Visit our website at www.dttus.com 
In addition to being named one of the 100 Best Companies to Work for in America by 

Fonune• magazine, we have been recognized by Workforce and Working Mother for our innovative work/life balance programs, and by Computerworld and Information Week for use of technology in the workplace. Deloitte & Touche is an equal opponunity employer. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and 


promote without regard to race, creed, color, 
national origin, age, gender, sexual 
orientation, marital status, veterans status 
or disabilities. ~~­
.,"..,.. 


------~---~~~-----­
Friday, January 30, 1998 page 17 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 
The 24th-ranked Notre Dame women's swim­ming and diving teams will be on the road this weekend to take on three opponents, in what will be their final preparation before the Big East Championships. 
The Irish are looking to improve on their unblem­ished 7-0 dual-meet record when they head to Ohio to face Bowling Green and Buffalo today, before traveling up to Michigan to take on the sixth-ranked Wolverines on Saturday. 
"We're just trying to work through these meets," commented freshman freestyler Kristen Van Saun. "It's a strange time in the sea­son. We're not really con­cerned with times right now, we're just looking to swim good races.~ 
The Irish are coming off two big wins against Illinois and conference-
Wednesday. Elsewhere in the country, jumper for Toronto, and junior Sheila McMillen and sophomore Boston College was defeated handily by the Nuggets missed five Nielc lvey added nine points to the Irish Syracuse 64-56. The loss drops the Eagles straight shots and com­effort. Notre Dame outrebounded to 7-4 on the season and keeps the Irish mitted a turnover down Villanova 48-27 but also committed 23 in a three-way tie with the Wildcats and the stretch. turnovers. For the Irish, it was their first the Eagles for second place. Meanwhile Stoudmire gave Toronto loss to Villanova since joining the Big East Connecticut, with a 10-0 record in confer­the lead for good with two in 1995-96. ence play, holds a firm grasp on first free throws with 2:18 
"I think ofl'ensively we weren't playing place in the Big East 6. remaining. together as a team," Hutchinson said The clash between the Irish and the The Raptors led 7 4-63 about the loss. "We weren't able to exe­Pirates begins tomorrow at 2 p.m. in the after three quarters but cute our plays as well. We're going to Joyce Center. had a meltdown during 
an 11-0 Denver run that tied the game 
3:07 into the fourth. Toronto had four turnovers in five pos-
Blaylock had 17 points and a season-high 13 A THANK YOU TO FACULTY AND STAFF 
assists. Dikembe FROM THE ... 
Mutombo added 14 points and 14 rebounds for the APPRECIATION COMMITTEE 
Hawks. Derrick Coleman led Philadelphia with 24
THE PLAQUE 

points and 11 rebounds. Tim Thomas scored 15 of his 19 points in the first half and Allen Iverson had 18 points along with seven turnovers. 
WAS PLACED IN THE GARDEN OF THE SACRED HEART ON WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1997,AT THE PRESENTATION TO 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate 
UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION. year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-A TOTAL OF$ 4,686 WAS talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool CONTRIBUTED TO THIS EFFORT, qualify, these merit-based ~EADERSHtp year the scholarship is in 
COVERING THE COST OF scholarships can help you ' effect. Find out today if pay tuition andeducational 
you qualify. 
Flowers, Shrubs and Plants: $3490.00 Printing & Framing: 1015.26 Plaque & Standard: 434.68 Misc. Supplies: 45.56
ARMY ROTC 
Total: $4985.50 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
If you would still like to be a part of this Garden, please send a check to: Appreciation
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 
Committee, University of Notre Dame, 1100
631-6986 
Grace before March I. 

• NBA BRIEFS

• WOMEN'S SWIMMING ,, 
Swimill.el;s 
Streaking Raptors slip 
past helpless Nuggets 
unbeaten in 
qpponent Miami'artiQ,Jo6k, ., 20 
to have no·01roblem Bowling Green Captain Linda Gallo isnot expeeted to swim at this meet so she can focus on Michigan and the Blg East Championships•..... ': 
Michigan will ptf¥~lit ~ .. serious challenge {o~ the Irish. The Wolv(l.rin~s placed first at both·.the Notre Dame and Rainbow Invitationals. The Irish placed third and sec(md. respectively, at thqse meets, finishing vyell 
b()hind Michigan. •• ·• .... 
''This will be the third time we swim against Michigan this season," commented Van Saun. «It's a lot different in a 
dual-meet situation, so we're just be trying to swim them closer:' < 7 ;; 
The Wolverines are stacked and look to be tough with swimmers like Linda Ricker in the 200­roeter backstoke, Talor Bendel in the 100-meter freestyle, Kasey HarriS in the .200~meter buttetf1y, and Rachel Gustin in. the 
WoiDen 
continued from page 24 
have to play better on both ends of the Nuggets. game." Denver led 80-78 with The Notre Dame-Villanova match was 2:53 remaining, but Walt not the only contest in the Big East on Williams hit a 16-foot 
are •vu·o.uJ•~<> formancB.'~ ·Irn1rn men free and Car 
strok~ 
br Sri 
Kline; 
Allison e terfly events, 

The [ri:sh .should be able to .co tt3 with 
some of n's top the what 
~ra1li~ 
advantage,. lt is fair to say that an Irish victory over Michigan would be the 
biggest in in the 
rank ··· . tionally," Suddarth explained. "I don't think· we're at Michigan~$ .Jevel yet. We're just looking to stick 
with t d possibly giveth '' 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Associated Press 

DENVER 
Damon Stoudamlre scored 22 points, includ­ing the final four of the game Thursday night, as the Toronto Raptors extended their winning streak to a franchise-best four games by beating the hapless Denver Nuggets 84-80. 
The loss extended Denver's home losing streak to a franchise­record 11 games and marked another step toward the wor~t single­season record in NBA his­tory. 
The Nuggets (3-40), who failed to score in the game's final 2:53, are on a pace to shatter the record for fewest wins in a season. The 1972-73 Philadelphia 76ers went 9-73. 
Marcus Camby had 16 points for the Raptors, who won despite scoring just 10 points in the fourth quarter. 
LaPhonso Ellis had 18 points to lead the sessions and the Nuggets got two dunks, a tip-in, a 16-foot jumper and a 34­foot bank shot from Joe Wolf as the shot clock expired. 
Play was sloppy throughout the first half as the teams combined for 26 fouls, 19 turnovers and 41 percent shooting. Fittingly, the game was tied 49-49 at halftime after Stoudamire drove the length of the court for a layup in 4.T seconds. 
Magic 95, Rockets 88 
Penny Hardaway had 11 points and five assists in his first game since Dec. 6 as the Orlando Magic snapped a seven­game losing streak with a 95-88 victory over the Houston Rockets on Thursday night. 
Hardaway, sidelined for eight weeks with a knee injury that required surgery, didn't start but played 31 minutes. The All-Star guard missed seven of eight shots from the field, but was 9-for-1 0 from the foul line and had two steals and two blocks. 
Darrell Armstrong scored 17 points for the Magic, who had seven players in double figures. 
Matt Bullard scored 20 points for the Rockets, who lost for the seventh time in nine games. 
Orlando outrebounded Houston 51-33, including 15 rebounds by Horace Grant. 
The Magic led by 17 points in the third period before the Rockets ral­lied. Houston closed to 86-85 with 2:28 left in the game after Charles Barkley's dunk capped a 10-2 run. 

But that's as close as the Rockets got. The Magic made 9 of 10 free throws down the stretch, including the last four by Derek Strong. 
Nick Anderson added 15 points for Orlando, Grant had 11 and Charles Outlaw and Brian Evans each had 10. 
Orlando used a 16-5 run early in the third period to take a 17 -point lead, but the Rockets closed the quarter with a 6-2 run and scored the first four points of the final quarter to pull with­in 78-70. 
The Rockets lost start­ing point guard Matt Maloney in the third peri­od with a neck sprain. 
Hawks 109, Sixers 99 

Steve Smith scored 33 points, including four in the final 31 seconds of regulation and six in overtime, as Atlanta beat Philadelphia 109-99 Thursday night. 
The Hawks, who are 5­1 in overtime this season, scored the first nine points of the extra period. Smith's shot from the cor­ner gave Atlanta its first lead of the game, and he added four more points and Mookie Blaylock made a three-point play as Atlanta raced to a 105­94lead. 
Atlanta ended a five­game losing streak and a three-game home losing streak. Philadelphia, 0-3 in overtime this year, lost its fourth game in a row and fifth straight on the road. 
Atlanta's Alan Henderson had 19 points and 12 rebounds, while 

~~-----~--~­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, January 30, 1998 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Irish look to best higher-ranked Northwestern 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
Ev11n though Notre Dame's men's tennis team has devoured all thre1~ of its opponents this season, it's still hungry. In faet, the team is starving for a little Wildeat llavor. The No. 23 Irish travel to Northwestern Sunday for tlwir toughest match yet this season, tlwy'rn hoping to get full ofl' of their Top 20 opponent. 
"We'n~ anxious to play," coach Bob Bayliss said. "We're exdtml for the challenge and ready to play our best." 
An Irish best may not be enough, however, to debunk the high level competition Northwestern will most likely serve. 
Although Notre Dame has only lost onee this deeade to Northwestern. the Wildcats are playing at what Bayliss believes is their "best in 20 or more years." Bayliss compared his opponr.nts to the erew they boasted when now-professional Todd Martin dominated the team. 
Notrn Dame also needs to find a strategy to squeak by power servers Mark Silva and Doug Bohaboy. Bohaboy barely defeated Brian Patterson last year in the Rolt~X Championship 7-6, 6-7, 7-5. Jakub Pietrowski lost twice to Silva last year, once forcing it to a 7-6 third set defeat. 
"Those were extremely close matehes last year," Bayliss said. "They eould really have gone either way." 
If the ball is going to bounce in the Irish's favor, No. 5 Eric Enloe will need to hold his own against Martin Bengtsson, one of Sweden's best in 18-and­under competition. 
"Erie's being a lot more deci­sive in his shot selection," Bayliss commented. "lie's start­ing to get back on track." 
Meanwhile, Andy Warford, who has successfully filled in for injured Matt Horsley, is starting to lind his way around the track as well. 
"It's kind of like on-the-job training for Warford," said Bayliss, who has led his team to seven consecutive NCAA appearances. "lie's been hitting really well in practices this week." 
The Irish will depend heavily upon Ryan Sachire at the No. 1 position and captain Danny Hothschild to pull off a win. Both eliminated their opponents in last weekend's doubleheader and hope to carry the streaks onto Northwestern's courts. 
Notre Dame Men•s TennisSchedule 
Jan. 31  at Northwestern  Noon  
Feb. 5-8  at Rolex National  
Feb. 11  KENTUCKY  3:30p.m.  
Feb. 13  OHIO STATE  3:30p.m.  
Feb. 15  MIAMI (Fla.)  1:00 p.m.  
Feb. 19-22  at National Team Indoors  
Feb. 28  WISCONSIN  1:00 p.m.  
March 4  MICHIGAN STATE  3:30p.m.  
March 6'-8  at Pacific Coast Doubles  
March 10  at Pennsylvania  1:00 p.m.  


The Observer/Dave Piening 

L-----------------------------------------~ 
Interested in Doing Research at a 
World-Class Research Institute? 
Undergraduate Summer lnsternships 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology will award up to three Summer i 998 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL-with a follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week program. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their junior Year by May 1998 and be registered to return in the Fall of 1998. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science &. Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Deadline is Fe~ruary 23, 1998 


FREE Dinner will he served! Everyone is welcomed! 
Please RSVP by February 2nd, 1998 at 1-6841 
1027 E. Wayne 

Brought to you by the Office of
South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Multicultural Student Affairs 

Attention!! 

Who: All students interested in running for Student Government President or Vice President What: Candidate information packets 
Where: Student Government Office 2nd Floor Lafortune Wh,f: If you were unable to attend the candidate information meeting on Wednesday. 
When: TODAY!f (Byfriday) 
All students interested in running must obtain an information packet by today! 
--~-----------~---~-----~---~----------­
Friday, January 30, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Not.re Dame prepares for start of season on Friday 
By TIM CASEY 
Sporrs Writer 
The outlook for this year's 
women's tennis team is very 
promising. 
The pre-season ranked team 
returns eight monogram win­
rwrs from last years NCAA 
tnam. Fivn of the top six singles 
players am in the top 110 in the 
country, the most ever in Notre 
Dame history. 
After two and a half weeks of 
practices they are eager to play 
against some opposing schools. 
"It's time to start playing 
matches. We have looked good 
hitting against ourselves in 
practices but nothing compares 
with getting some match experi­
ence under our belts," said 
coach Jay Louderback. 
Tlw team opens up its season 
this Friday at Drake and 
Saturday against Purdue. 
"Both teams are good. Drake 
is solid throughout their lineup 
and has some good players. 
Purduf1 is ranked in our region 
and has a good balance one . through six," said Louderback. 
The two time defending Big East champions are led by senior captain Kelly Olson who has been an integral part of the line-up for the past two seasons. She will play No. 6 singles this year after finishing strong last year with four straight wins. 
The top three positions are up for grabs between juniors Jennifer Hall and Marisa Velasco and freshman Michelle Dasso. 
Hall was No. 1 singles last year and qualified for the NCAA singles tournament before los­ing in the second round to the eventual finalist. She finished the year ranked No. 35 in the country. 
Velasco played No. 2 singles· last year and ended the year with a 10 match winning streak. She has a two year record of 48-18 in singles play. 
Dasso, from Long Grove. Ill., brings impressive credentials from her high-school career to the Irish. A three time all-State performer, she was ranked No. 18 in the country by the U.S. Tennis Association . 
In her first tournament as a collegian, she won the Rolex Midwest regionals and has advanced to the national indoors which will be held Feb. 5-8. 
Rounding out the top six are senior Tiffany Gates at No. 4 singles and sophomore Kelly Zalinski at No. 5. Gates is in her second year with the Irish after transferring from the University of Minnesota. 
Last year she finished the year ranked in singles in the country and combined with Hall to advance to the second round of the NCAA doubles tourna­ment. 
Zalinski was named the team's MVP last year after com­piling a 31-13 record at No. 4 singles. 
The mixture of experience along with talented newcomers makes Coach Louderback opti­mistic. 
"We hope to improve .on last year's record and we hope to qualify for the NCAAs which we are hosting this year," he said. 
Get out and support your favorite sport 
Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diainond Authority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

•Snoo((])m 21lmJlnmlrm (oYer tOOO§q.lFt.} 
• 4lbRocb ilim>m CMlrllJP>m (now )'Oliil nnn sllrej[) m~} 
• 
A~1flbnu.IVby ~Av~Re 

•
N((])w ~f((])r FJlll998 


Managf'{R lBy 

R<"a~ Estd<> l\1\.anag<-m{"ll! Cm'[JOI'Ilation 
• 


Sprewell asks for lesser punishment 
The Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

Latrell Sprewell took the wit­ness stand for more than six hours Thursday to try to per­suade an arbitrator to lessen the punishment he received for choking and threatening to kill his coach, P.J. Carlesimo. 
Carlesimo wasn't there to hear Sprewell's side of the story. After listening to three of his Golden State players and two of his assistant coaches testify in an 11 1/2-hour session Wednesday, Carlesimo flew out of Portland Wednesday night. 
Carlesimo was with the Warriors for Thursday night's game in Seattle. The NBA has added a third day to the con­cluding session of the hearing in New York to allow Carlesimo to testify next Thursday. 
With his agent, Arn Tellem, in attendance, Sprewell testified from 9 a.m. PST until the hear­ing broke for lunch at 12:30 

Le Cercle Frangais, with aid from the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, is participating in a film grant program made possible with the support of The Cultural Services of the French Embassy and Cultural Ministry of France. 
Film Dates and Titles 

"Gnelwaao·" Saturday, January 31, 1998 2:00pm (1992. St·ne!(al, directed hy Ousrnmw Semhene) A pnliti,.al activist in a Christian S .. m,galese community dies; factionalism cau.ses a struggle betw~en Christians and Mnslints at the gravesitt-. s~mbi-ne 1 s pioneer writing anti dirPC·ting have grantl'd him a distinguislwd thirty y•·ar caret•r in fimmaking. 
"Celestial Clockwork" Saturday, February 7, 1998 2:00pm ("Mecanit]II<'S Ci>l{>stes," 1995, Fmnce, directed by Fina Tones} 
"Le Colonel Chahert" Sunday, February 22, 1998 2:00pm (1994, F•·ance. dirt•eh•d hy Yves Angelo) 
"I Can't Sleep" Saturday, February 28, 1998 2:00pm ("J'ai pas snmnwil," 1995, France, directed by Claire Denis) 
All showings will take place at the Snite Annenberg Auditorium. Tickets are $3 each 
FILMS ARE SUBTITLED IN ENGLISH!!! 
p.m. After the break, team physician Dr. Robert Albo was on the stand for about an hour. Sprewell returned to the stand at 2:30 p.m. and wrapped up his testimony at 5:15p.m., the NBA said. 
Sprewell's testimony, like that of the others before him, was kept secret under a gag order sought by the NBA and issued by arbitrator John Feerick, dean of the Fordham Law School. 
Former Golden State player and coach AI Attles, executive vice president and general man­ager of the Warriors and a member of the franchise for 37 years, concluded the day's testi­mony Wednesday night. 
Sprewell has attended all three days of the hearing. On Tuesday, the first day of the hearing, he entered through the main lobby of the office building where the hearing is being held, telling reporters he has entered ami left the building through a back entrance, away from reporters and photographers . 
Sprewell and the players' union want Feerick to reduce the penalty meted out by the NBA and the Warriors. 

.· 

-------------~ ~--~~--~ 
-~--------~-~­
page 20 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 30, 1998 
.. 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
ND attends its first officLal meet today in Bloomington 
year. You may pick up applications at the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 27' 1998. 
ALUMNI
Ill 

SENIOR 
::1:

•. 
1­

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
The track and field team 

heads to Indiana University at 
Bloomington today for its first 
meet to be scored as a team 
this season. 
The men take on Indiana 

and Tennessee in head-to­
lwad competition and the 
womnn will face only Indiana. 
Th1~ team is hoping to come 
home with victories on both 
sides in the only indoor meet 
of the season besides the Big 
East Invitational which scores 
team results, thus focusing on 
t1~am competition rather than 
individual. 
"We want to beat Indiana 

and Tennessee. What we'll 
have to do is put people in 
events where they can score 
the most points," said sprints 
and hurdles coach John 
Millar. "For the men, probably 
it's going to be a very dose 
meet. It's just going to come 
down to who runs the best on 
that day. The women will have 
to make up points in the mid­
dle distancE~. It comes down to 
the whole team running their 
best on the same day." 
The Irish will hope to build on last wel'kend's success at the Hed Simmons Invitational. whl're four athletl's tied or set school records and junior pole vaulter Mike Brown was named co-athletn of th1~ week. 
"TI'nrH•ssec traditionally has a great track team, and Indiana has historically been very good," said head coach Joe Piane. 
Top performers on the men's side should eome from hurdler Errol Williams and sprinters Danny Payton, Terry Wray, and Chris Cochran. Brown may be unablf'l to compete as he strained a hamstring last weekend. 
Many of the men's distance runners will take on thl'ir first competition since nationals in cross country, so it is some­what of a question mark what to expect. 
But senior Jason Hl'xing is an all-American and Antonio Arce had a very strong cross country season. . 
"To win races at the Big East meet is my top priority this 
N o t r e D a m e C o m m u n i c a t i.o n a n d T h e a I r e P r e s e n I s 
C
ome join the tradition. Applications are now being accepted for manager positions at the Alumni ...Senior Club for the I 998-99 academic school 

year," said Hexing. ''I'd like to 
qualify for the NCAA outdoor 
meet and take a shot at out­
door r!'cords in the five-and 
ten-kilometer runs. Those are 
after-thoughts, though. It 
would be icing on the cake if 
that happens." 
"I want to run smart and to run hard at Indiana. Danny Payton and I help each other out and have someone to push us. It's kind of like healthy competition. 
"In high school, I was pretty much out there by myself," said Wray, a freshman. "My goals for this season have become more team-oriented since school began. Hight now, the goal I'm looking at is to win the Big East and for me to do my part." . 
On the women's side, the big points should come from high jumpers Jennifer Engelhardt and Kelle Saxen, sprinters Carri Lenz and Nadia Schmiedt, and distance run­
The Irish track and field team will leap into action today against Indiana and Tennessee. 
ners JoAnna Deeter and Erin 

numbered. 
"Indiana's had a long-last­ing tradition with both men and women. For us to go down 
there and compete with them, but our team is ready," Winsor said. 
Ill 

"We've had some great per­formances so far. We'll go down there and see what we can do. We need to stay healthy for the Big East." 
::1: 
1­
1:30 p.m. {Sat.) and 8-9 p.m. Cfues.) in Rockne Rm. 301. 
Downhill Ski Trip RecSports will be sponsoring a Downhill Ski trip to Swiss Valley on Friday, Jan. 30. The buses will leave the Library Circle at 5 p.m. and return to campus at approximately 11 
p.m. The fee for those needing to rent skis is $28, and for those who wlll bring their own skis, the cost is $19. Register in advance at RecSports on or before Wednesday, Jan. 28. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics -RecSports will be sponsoring three clinics this winter. The first clinic will be on Saturday, Jan. 31, at 11 a.m. and there will be two offered on Saturday, Feb. 7, one at 10 a.m. and the second one at 2 p.m. The fee for the clink is $5 with an addi­tional $4 rental foe if' you need to rent skis. Hegistration in advance is required for all three cross-eountry ski elinics. 

Aikido -Classes on Monday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in Hoom 301, and Fl'iday !'rom 7:30 to, 
9:30 p.m. in Hoom 219 in Rockne. Beginners' class starts on Friday, Jan. 30, at 7:30 after a demonstration with Dody Chang, sensei from Chicago. Bring comfortable clothes. 
Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club -Don Brasi, a 3rd degree black belt of Shaolin Do, will perform a demonstration this Sunday, Fob. 1, from 10 a.m. to noon in Hoom 219 Hockne. Private lessons are also available. 
Olson. 
"I want to run the mile as 
best as I can, maybe under 
5:00, and see what I can do in 
the 3000-meter run," said 
Deeter, a sophomore who set 
the school record last week in 
the 3000-meters. 
"Out of our group of distance runners, we just really have to dominate the mile and 3000­meter run, and try to get 1-2 in that," said women's dis­tance coach Tim Connelly. "We also want to try to break up Indiana's top 800-meter runners." 
This should be a tough meet for Notre Dame. It will be the first meet in which thl' whole team will be competing. 
"Indiana's going to be tough," said throwers and jumpers coach Scott Winsor. "Our women, we're just out­
The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 

• SPORT~ BRIEFS 

Shorin-Ryu Karate -This semester-long course meets in Rockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 29. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $18. A demonstration will be held at 6:30p.m. on Tuesday, Jan. 27, in Rockne Room 219. Call 1· 8237. 
Ballet -RecSports will be sponsoring Beginner and Advanced Ballet. Both classes are semester-long classes with a fee of $35. All classes will be held in Rockne Rm. 301. Classes will begin on Saturday, Jan. 31. 
Jazz nance-A Jazz Dance class will he offered Saturdays and Tuesdays from 12 p.m.­
--~-----~­
-

------------------------. 
Friday, January 30, 1998 · The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• 
• MEl\(s SWii\llMING ­
Irish to face former assistant coach in Ohio meets 

Feb. 18-21
Grad Students 
Feb. 28-31 
Mar. 13-14

Everybody wants something from you: Your Profs want all of your free time Your parents want you to phone or write 
Mar. 26-28 

Your boyfriend/girlfriend wants, well we won't get into that ... 
The Observer/Dave Premng 

What about you? What do you get? 

Well, at Williamsburg on the Lake Apartments you get a reduced security deposit of only $50 AND you get a $20 monthly discount off your rent AND you get space to stretch out and relax AND you get a nice quiet atmosphere 
BRIDGET'S
so you can study in peace AND every month we'll feed you at our Resident Parties (and we serve real food, not just Ramen noodles and mac and 
25th Anniversary Party
cheese) AND you'll be known by our staff by name, not just your student 10 
Jan. 30th and 31st
number. 
2:OOpm-3:OOam
Oh yeah, there is one tiling you won't get -a gas bill. That's because your gas for your heat is included in your rent. 
Friday: Open at 2:00 
And if t11at is not enough, we'll pay you $50 every time we make one of your 
DJ "Hitman'' 2:00-10:00 
friends your neighbor. 
DJ "Late 10:00-3:00 
@ 
so let's review: 
Sat. Open at 2:00
$50 security deposit ~ 
DJ at 2:00-10:30
$20 monthly discount ~­
EQUAL HOUSING 
Gravity Hill 10:30-3:00
OPPORTUNITY Space, quiet. food, identity 
What are you waiting for? Call or visit today! 
~.LL M1me~ l Q-tv~-a.-WI.y$ a.ll~
Williamsburg On the Lake 
•Bridget's is not affiliated with the old Jazzmans• 

Williamsburg 
302 Village Dr. 

•As always, 2 ID's required• 
eL 
Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
Phone# 256-0237 
ByMATTYUNG less deep than in the past but -Buffalo meet, had the Irish Sports Writer are not to be underestimated. trailing from the beginning, In last year's meet against but N-otre Dame pulled off the 
Today the Irish swimming 
.---~=--= Buffalo, the victory on the final relay. The and diving team will compete Irish started Irish are seasoned bus travel­in Ohio against both Bowling out behind ers, but will gladly finish their Green and Buffalo and tomor­but were last away meet against row they will race at able to get a Cleveland State. Clrweland State. victory on With Chinese New Year last 
Handy Julian, Bowling the final Wednesday and the year of Green's third-year head relay. Notre the tiger beginning, Coach coach, who served under Tim Dame is Welsh thinks the swim team Welsh as Notre Dame's assis­Welsh characteris-will also start a new trend and tant coach for five years, will tically a hal-race with the fierceness and face athletes he coached as anced, deep team that pro-eye of the tiger. freshmen in the Irish seniors. duces strong finishes. Welsh has an aggressive, A good rivalry has built up This year's team is also optimistic outlook about the between the teams and will 
extremely deep, but as the team's remaining meets. again be realized. seven new Notre Dame "We'll attack our prey and put 
The women's swimming records tell, this team has them away," he,said. team will join the men's team_ more speed than in the past, __.. Series records against this in Bowling Green in one of the which translates to winning weekend's opponents are first men's and women's more events. Bowling Green, 12-18, meets this season. Last year's meet with Buffalo, 2-1, and Cleveland 
Bowling Green's team is Cleveland State, as with the State, 13-10. 

Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
The Irish swimmers look forward to a strong finish to their season. 
r-------------------------, 
Notre Dame Men's Swimming Jan. 31 Schedule 
Feb. 7 
Feb. 14 



1998 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break February 20, 21, 22 
Sign ups are: Sat 1/31 9:30a.m.-5:00p.m. Sun 2/111:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • 108 LaFortune 
r
. 631-5449/8792 
-~---~-------~ 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, January 30, 1998 
• • JOCK STRIP 
Elway defies proverbial 'one-game hero' model 
He sfiould be recognized for his career 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sports Writer 
Just in case you missed it, John Elway and the Denver Broncos won tlw Super Bowl last Sunday. dethroning the Gnwn Bay Packers. 
While I was glad to see the Packers lose and somewhat amused by J<:Iway's ability to finally win a Super Bowl, the most interesting thing to me was the way the media treated Elway bncause he won the big gamn. Specifically, Elway was vinwed as a conquering hero instead or a pathetic loser because the Broncos were abln to dnl'eat the Packers. 
Elway played decently, but thn Broncos were fueled by thn bnst player on their team, running back Terrell Davis. While Elway's completion per­eentagn hovered around 50 perc1mt all day. Davis ran for thrt\1\ touehdowns. 
Elway was dearly outplayed by the Packers' Brett Favre, ynt he got all the credit when everything was said and done bneause his team won. Elway emerged as the winner and Favre as the loser. 
What if the result had been rcversnd and, God forbid, the Packnrs had won? The same people who sang his praises aftnr his win would have seen Elway as a loser, unable to win the big game and there­fore unsuccessful in his foot­ball career. 

So, what makes a winner? Is it the athlete whose team wins oven though he plays mediocre? Or is it the athlete who plays the best game of his career and comes up on the losing end? 
I think it's the latter. Elway was a winner because throughout his career he played his position superbly game-in and game-out, and made a name for himself as the most dangerous man in the game around the two­minute warning (ask Cleveland Browns fans about that). 
Elway was earried by Davis on Sunday, along with tight end Shannon Sharpe and a superb defense anchored by Neil Smith, Bill Romanowski, and Steve Atwater. 
In his three previous Super Bowl losses, he played on mediocre teams that he madn 
good. This year, he played  on  
an  excellent  team  that  he  
helped succeed.  

Elway played better in his three Super Bowl losses than he did on Sunday, but he will be recognized as a winner on that day and a loser on the three previous Sundays. Is this right? No. Is he the only win­ner to have been painted as a loser despite heroic perfor­mances? No. 
With apologies to the likes of Charles Barkley and Karl Malone in basketball, Dan Marino and .Jim Kelly in foot­ball, Hay Borque and Brett Hull in hockey, and Hoger Clemens in baseball, the best example of a winner incapabln of winning the ultimate prize is Don Mattingly. 
Mattingly was a winner in every possible way. Undersized and underapprcci­ated, he led the New York Yankees throughout the mid­1980s and early 1990s. 
Fighting through back prob­lems and enduring the media in the Big Apple, Mattingly lent credibility to some horri­ble Yankee teams. 
He never held out for the big contract. He began his earner as a Yankee and ended it the same way. After a litany of Gold Gloves and batting titles, 
his hack forced him into ~etirement after the 1995 sea­son. 
In 1996, the Yanknes won the World Series. But Mattingly was a winner, regardless of the performance of the Yankees. lie was a win­ner because he played the game well both on and orr tlw field. 
Unfortunatnly, in a fnw years, when Mattingly becomes eligible for the Baseball llall of Famn, he will most likely not be voted in because he never madt~ it to the World Series. 
Elway will undoubtedly make the Football llall of Fame. In all liknlihood, he would have made the llall regardless of whether or not the Broncos won this ganH~. but now he will go down in history as ·one of football's greatest stories. 
Elway, and others who have played like winners through­out their careers, should be reeognized as great storins regardless of how one game turns out. 
LI EN TO 

tiTHE NO WEEKLY" ON 
88.9~FM 
WSND TODAY AT 5:30P.M. 
I 

Are you interested in doing a year of service in Campus Ministry? 
Come work alongside Notre Dame's Campus Ministry Staff as an intern! 
The Campus Ministry Internship program provides an opportunity for a recent ND graduate to join the Campus Ministry team and be immersed in the experience of Campus Ministry apostolate. The internship is a 10 1/2­month commitment and includes a stipend, housing, and health insurance. 
Stop by the CM Badin Office for an application today. 
Please call John and Sylvia Dillon with any questions: 

(Z\MPUS

631-5242 
MINISTRY 




~~~~~~~~~­

Friday, January 30, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
the little engineering building on the prarie Thursday january 29 10:30 PM Friday january 30 a:oo PM and 10:30 PM 
Saturday january 31 a:oo PM and 10:30 PM 

And that's it ror this weekend. 
However, srAce yoursElf fOR aMonth fULL Of MAYham in February. 
• 
02.06-08 Names [AIOS1 Quilt Showing 02.21 Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats · . Dance o2.14-19 Sophomore Literary Festival e 
02.13 Forbidden workshop 02.28Free Laundry www.nd.edursub 
TM SoRRY, !T 
OESN/T LOOk' G I '1'1 AFRA 1 D You' AcloSE J;V[oLERAN 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Cushing Auditorium
SEVEN YEARS IN TIBET 
SCOTT ADAMS 


-==-1-:..!..+=:!..J!=-1 12 Legal memo 
~~~:;+:~ 25 Sports venues 
64 Actor Estrada  
65 Uses a  
Smith-Corona  
&&Competed  
67 There are 435 in  
Con g.  
68 Sesames, e.g.  
69 Makes mistakes  
DOWN  
1 Stern that works  
with a bow  
2 Kind of  
engineer or  
service  
3 Month after  
diciembre  
4 Feudal workers  
5 Layers  
6 Sir's  
counterpart  
7 Receded  
8 Arcing shot  
9 Perry White was  
her boss  
10 ~Y~:.:ny  
11 Prickly -­ 
starter  32Comedian Hartman  49 Difficulties to be worked out  55 Yorkshire city 56 "Deutschland  
13lt's made of  33 Volcano output  50 Run off to the  -Alles"  
plaster of paris  34United-­ chapel  57 Undiluted  
19 Selective  Emirates  52 Chutzpah  sa Scissors cut  
Service  35 Kind of Buddhist  53 Pan Am rival,  60 Mimicked  
registrant, agewise 21 Rost-op period  37 Not too intelligent 38 "Huckleberry  formerly 54 Daisylike bloom  62 Soapmaker's solution  
Finn" character  

27 Cosmopolitan 40 Bands t~ke them Answers to any three clues in this puzzle publisher 
41 Performing are available by touch-tone phone: 29 Broad 46 Annual 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 30 Like left-hand Memorial Day Annual subscriptions are available for the 
page numbers event best of Sunday crosswords from the last 31 Lipton products 48 Gentle stroke 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Aries: No matter how carefully you may have planned your day, something is likely to come along and change it all. Do not be sur­prised if you end up on a com­pletely different course. Hang onto your temper. 
Taurus: The voice of authority is friendly and wise today. Act for the common good rather than for your own personal needs. What makes no sense in closeup view will be obvious when seen from a distance. 
Gemini: Someone is prepared to think ill of you today. You may be judged on the basis of incorrect information. Stay alert to protect your reputation. 
Cancer: Your thoughts run even deeper than usual today. If you make yourself available, you could meet your intellectual equal. Detail oriented tasks are a com­plete waste of time. 
Leo: Overconfidence could lead to serious mismanagement of someone else's resources. Do not let optimism be a substitute for vigilance. Be the first to admit your mistakes today. 
Virgo: Why rage against incompetence when you have the ability to unite and focus the actions of others? Teamwork makes use of everyone's skills and helps absorb their faults. Results matter more than personalities. 
Libra: You spend your day hard 


-
at work on something, whether or I)Ot it is connected to your liveli­hood. The effort feels wonderful even if the results prove intangi­ble. Your karma shines from today's activities. 
Scorpio: This is a day for every­one to enjoy herself. Take time out to do what makes you happy. Your plans grow bigger and better with each loved one you include. 
Sagittarius: You have trouble getting your feet off the ground today. A high energy or high risk activity sounds like a good idea from the comfort of your chair. You may not accomplish much more than daydreaming. 
Capricorn: A discussion catch­es fire and becomes a dialogue. You find someone who is on your wavelength in areas that really matter to you. It is impossible to ignore an appeal to your compas­sionate side. 
Aquarius: Today is all about what you want and what you need. Your ambitions are large, but your strategy needs a bit of work. Dreams are cheap and plen­tiful, but the bank does not accept them as collateral. 
Pisces: Today finds you in a leadership role, or at least that of a problem solver. You appear to be in control of events only because you know control is impossible. Be sure to spend some quality time alone with yourself. 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Frosts, as a cake 5 Give off an odor 10 "Iliad" or "Aeneid," e.g. 14 Trig ratio 15 No-no 16 Warrior princess of TV 17 Declare with confidence 18 TV-top antenna 20 1996 Michael Crichton novel 22 Confidential matter 23 Skeleton's place? 24 Broad valleys 26 "So there!" 28 Sprinted 29 Dripping 32 Town square 
36 Genesis garden 38 Jazzy talk 39 Nutty thought 42 Tennis great 
LendI 
43 Humor columnist Bombeck 
44 Harbingers 45 Physicist's workplace 
46 Mensa members have high ones 
47 ---fi (book genre) 49 Rockne of Notre 
Dame 51 Once a year 56 Set of 
advantages 59 Generosity 61 Beginners' 
skiing area 63 Price 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

EIDb~arrassed Irish hope to recover against Red StoriD 
By MIKE DAY  sparkling 8-3 in Big East play.  
Sports Editor  After finishing a mediocre 13­ 
13 last season, the St. John's  
Arter two weeks of near per­ squad, along with  
fection, it's back to the draw­ Connecticut, has emerged as  
ing board for the Irish this  one of the most improved  
Saturday when they travel to  teams in the conference.  
St. John's.  "We'll have to prepare - 
Indeed, over the last two  this is a game Saturday  
weeks, Notre Dame confident­ against a team that has been  
ly produced a pair of master­ on a tear," said MacLeod.  
pieces that even Van Gogh  "We'll have our hands full,  
could take pride in. However,  and we'll have to bounce.  
the team's embarrassing per­ back."  
formance against Villanova  For that to happen, all­ 
Wednesday could be best  American candidate Pat  
likened to one of the art  Garrity must bounce back  
sculptures that line the South  from his worst game of the  
Quad of the Notre Dame cam­ season. Villanova limited the  
pus.  captain to just 14 points on an  
The Wildcats dominated the  "un-Garrity"-like 4-of-13  
lethargic Irish from start to  shooting.  
tlnish. transforming the Irish  On the defensive side of the  
from a skillful artist to a curb­ court, the Irish must stop one  
side fraud. Although "fraud"  of the toughest one-two  
may be inappropriate for a  punches in the nation - 
team that upset 15th-ranked  senior guard Felipe Lopez and  
Syracuse and No. 19 West  senior center Zendon  
Virginia in a span of tlve days,  Hamilton.  
there is no denying that Notre  Perhaps best described as  
Dame is in desperate search  the Ron Powlus of college bas­ 
of some kind of consistency.  ketball, Lopez has finally  
"What we did on last  started to tap into his unlimit­ 
Wednesday [an 83-63 victory  ed potential this year after  
over Syracuse] doesn't mean a  three disappointing seasons.  
lick," said head coach John  The 6-foot-6, 190-pound  
MacLeod following the  shooting guard enters  
Villanova contest. "We beat  Saturday's contest averaging  
two top 20 teams, but that's in  18.7 points per game to go  
the past. What we needed to  along with five assists per  
understand was what was  contest.  
coming and that was a very  "He is a talented player who  
hungry team."  has really come a long way,"  
Things won't get any easier  said MacLeod. "He is capable  
against St. John's. The Red  of taking over a game at any  
Storm is in the midst of a S(Wen-game winning streak that has boosted their overall  time, so that is something that we'll have to be aware of." Meanwhile, Hamilton ranks  The Observer/Brandon Candura Martin lngelsby and the Irish backcourt, which provided a boost against Syracuse but disappeared against Villanova, will have to produce points if the Irish wish to regain a .500 mark in the Big East Conference. They  
roeord to 16-6, including a  see MEN I page 13  will also be challenged on the defensive end by the Red Storm's Felipe Lopez.  

• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

ND women look to rebound against Seton Hall 
By BILL HART Tho Irish have won four straight ovnr Sports Writer the l'irat1~s. ineluding t.wo victories last smtson. Notrn Damn routnd Seton Ilall 
The Fighting Irish women's basketb.all 87-47 in South Orangn, N.J.· in the first squad hopes to rebound in conference game played betwenn the two teams last play this weekend when Seton Hall season and oanwd a 7 5-61 vietory at drops by the Joyce Center. At this stage the Joyce Center where tlw Pirates an~ of the season, each contest is crucial 1-1. with the Big East tournament only a Meanwhiln, the Fighting Irish havP month away. However, the Pirates' stumbled a little, having gone 2-2 over momentum will be a tough challenge for the past two weeks. On Saturday, Notre the Irish to contain. Dame routed Providence 109-W in the 
Seton Hall won its second in a row by second-highest scoring effort of head defeating West Virginia, 86-61, on coach Mullet McGraw's coaching era. In Wednesday. After a 37-23 halftime that contest, Daniello Green posted a lead, the Pirates shot-.576 (19-33) from career-high 22 points for the Irish while the field in the second half to put the freshman Huth Hiley posted 11 points game away. Seton Hall committed only and a game-high eight rebounds. 11 turnovers, but forced WVU into 23. On Wednesday, Notre Dame suffered Junior Danielle Golay posted her fifth a setback with a 70-54 loss at Villanova. double-double with a game-high 23 The Irish held the game close until mid­points and 13 rebounds. She shot 11-17 way through the second half when the from the field. Senior guard Sandy Wildcats exploded for a 22-2 run to put Mitchell finished with 15 points, while the game out of reach. VU outscored the freshman Starr Fuller made a big con­Irish 40-26 in the second half while th() tribution off the bench with 14 points. visitors went 7-32 from the field in the Even though the Pirates stand at 3-7 in final 20 minutes of play. the Big East 7, they have won three of Senior Kari Hutchinson came ofT the their last four games, including two bench to score 12 points along with 
PhotoCourtesyofRobFinch decisive wins over Providence and Junior guard Danielle Green should provide quickness and heavy defense against Seton Hall. Pittsburgh. 
see WOMEN I page 17 

-
SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, January 30, I 998 

.. Men's Basketball at St. John's, Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 

• 
Women's Basketball vs. Seton Hall, 
• Saturday, 2 p.m. 
• 
Hockey vs. Michigan, Friday, 7 p.m. 
• 
Swimming and Diving vs. Depauw, 
aJ 

• Women's tennis starts season 
• 
~¢ 
Friday, 7:30p.m. Women's Tennis ~ see page 19
......

at Northwestern, 
Today, 5 p.m. riJ •Track and Field go elsewhere 
Men's Tennis at Drake, see page 20 Today, 5 p.m. 
t~ ~ 






