
• joe Tiller leads the Purdue Boilermakers into 
• The Observer voices its delight over its recent 
Friday

No-tre I )arne Stadium tomorrow. Check out 
move to the basement of South Dining Hall. 
Scene to learn what, exactly, a Boilermaker is. 
SEPTEMBER 

Scene • 16-17 
Viewpoint ·14 
25, 1998 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 23 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Choice on joining Big Ten coming this winter 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
A.sisranr Nt·ws F.diror 
Humors that began last April about tlw possibility of Notre Dame joining the Big Ten confer­ence will likdy bt~ put to end by February. At that time, the Univnrsity plans to nmd1 a linal decision after measuring tlw ath­letic and academic ramilications of such a move. 
Talk bntween the Univnrsity and tlw eonfnnmce bt~gan throe ynars ago whtw Michael Wadsworth at:cepted the position as athletic director at Notre J>anw. Big Ten commissioner .lim J>nlanny approached Wadsworth at that timn, launch­ing a discussion that evolved into lUI ollieial t~xchangn of informa­tion in April. 
The Big Ten "had indicated they would like to make us aware of potentially intnrcsting opportunities the conference could oll"er us," Wadsworth said. "I told Jim that if they wanted to engage in an exehange of infor­mation, I didn't see any reason why we eouldn't do that." 
The "exchange of information" has benefited Notre Dame, Wadsworth said. 
"We learned a great deal from this exchange such as where the Big Ten is, where they are going and what they're doing," he said. "We also know what is going on with our major eompetition now." 
With the information exchange complete, University oflicials are discussing the possibilities and will make a decision by Feb., 1999. 
Although Wadsworth said he's reached a decision personally about whether the University should join the Big Ten, he couldn't reveal it, nor could he elaborate on selling points the Big Ten used during the process. 

In order to have a full and thorough exchange of informa­tion, the University and the Big Ten entered into a confidentiality agreement. Wadsworth said. 
The decision will be a difficult one. 
"We weren't shopping for a conference alliliation," said John Heisler, director of sports infor­mation. "We feel as comfortable as we've ever been." 
Some comforting factors for Notre Dame, whose football team remains independent but whose other sports have ties to the Big East conference, are a television contract with NBC through 2005 and no difliculty in filling its schedule or the stadi­um. 
"Hight now we have an awful lot of things in place as an inde­pendent football team," Heisler said. "What we have to assess is 
see BIG TEN I page 4 

fRIDAY fEATURE 
Expansion creates mild impact locally 
Not all businesses receive anticipated growth 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Associare News Editor 
The addition of 21,000 seats to Notre 
Dame Stadium has had a mixed impact 
on South Bend and the surrounding 
area in the 13 months since the renovat­. cd stadium opened. 
"We anticipated tax receipts to 
increase over the prior year," said David 
llarr, president of the Hotel/Motel Tax 
Board for St. Joseph County and general 
manager of the Morris Inn. The board 
oversees the collection and disburse­
ment of taxes levied on all hotel and 
motel guests in the county. 
Surprisingly, in the two fiscal quarters 
during which the football season occurs, 
the board reported a decrease in tax 
receipts from that received in the same 
period the previous year. As football 
weekends only account for four to six 
days per quarter, much of that decrease 
is attributed to lower demand during 
times other than football weekends. 
However. Harr explained, "We thought 
the football season would offset [those 
periods)." 
"I think the poor performance of the 
football team had more to do with it," 
said Mark McDonnell, vice president of 
the I Iotei!Motel Tax Board and owner of 
the LaSalle Grille. "More rides on the 
success of the team than the size of the 
stadium." 
He explained that when the team has 
a losing season receipts might decrease 
as much as 10 percent, but during a 
winning season, they may increase from 
normal levels as much as five percent. 
People are more inclined to stay the 
night after the game if the Irish win, 
according to McDonnell. 
"Expansion of the stadium has defi­
nitely increased our other activity," said 
see BUSINESS I page 6 

ND 01andates drug tests for new staffers 
By LAURA ROMPF News Writer 
The Office of Human Hesourccs impln­mented a pre-employment drug testing pro­cedure for prospective University staffnrs that started July 1. 
"Employment oilers am now contingent on individual passing a drug test," said Hoger Mullins, associate vice pmsidcnt for I Iuman Resources. "Prior to this new policy, we were one of the only major employers in the Mishawaka area who did not require a drug test before hiring. This created a concern that drug users could come and work horn. 
"The University of Notre Dame is a spe­cial environment and we have a obligation to make sure we are protecting the students from adverse exposure. It is our duty to give students a positive and healthy 1mvironment where they can grow and learn," Mullins added. 
The new test resulted from a variety of causes. The University has had a "for cause" drug testing policy for approximately four years. This means that if an accident occurred in which substance abuse could have been a factor, an employee would be tested. 
The new pre-employment test expands on that. Federal regulations also put in place by the U.S. Department of Transportation require drug tests on people who drive cer­tain vehides. In addition, employees in safe­ty-sensitive positions, such as workers at the Notre Dame Fire and Security/Police Departments and at the Human Resource center, have already undergone random drug tests. Pre-employment testing would supplement these tests. 
All of these factors led to start the pre­employment testing, according to Mullins and Richard Nugent, director of Employee Relations for the Employment, Training and Development department. 
see TESTING/ page 4 


21
,000 
MORE 
SEATS MEANS 
MORE GUESTS CHECKING IN AT AREA HOTELS... OR DOES IT? 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Second First 
Impressions 
We've all seen that old Head and Shoulders commercial where the guy brushes imagi­nary dandruff off his coat, looks directly at you, smiles, and says, "Because you never get a second chance to make a first impres­
Collen Gaughen Asst. Viewpoint Ediror 
sion." 

That catch phrase has become a reality, especially here at Notre Dame. We judge people on what our first impression of them is, and that judgement tends to stick, humorous or not. 
My brother Michael flew into town this morning from sunny southern California for the weekend. I wonder what his first impres­sion of Notre Dame will be. Maybe it will be the harsh difference in weather. Maybe it'll be all the football hype. Maybe his image of ND will be the autumn beauty of the campus. Or perhaps what will strike him the most will be the unbelievable illogic of having to crash in another dorm because he's not allowed in mine after midnight. 
Or maybe Mike's lasting impression of Notre Dame will be of its people ... the wide variety of friends I introduce him to, the masses of fans tailgating and milling about South Quad, the crazy partyers this weekend, my amazing professors when he comes to class with me, and the bountiful number of incredible priests. 
Within the student world of people, though, what I find most amusing is our habit of assigning very specific nicknames to people to identify them. We all have a Cute Philosophy Boy or Hot Dining Hall Girl we talk about, but it's those unique names we come up with that really make life interest­ing: Wafflehead, Crouton Boy, Banana Girl, Prep Kid, Fill-in-the-Blank-Nickname-From­Fill-in-the-Blank-Bar, Green Jacket Backpack Sideways Boy, and That Chick Who Looks Like Janet From Three's Company. We also label those unfortunates who have common names like Joe, Christy, Brian, and Kelly with nicknames such as The Mike I Don't Remember and Cracklin' Oat Bran Bob. 
And we never know what kind of nick­names have been bequeathed upon us with­out our knowledge. I just recently found out that I am known as Reserve Book Hoom Girl simply because I work there. I personally think it's hysterical and lots of fun, but really, is that the extent of my identity?! Isn't there more to the people we encounter than that nickname, that first impression? Of course there is. Then why don't we go find out? 
Maybe we could look beyond our first impressions of people and discover the trea­sures underneath our funny names for one another. Go ahead and ask Crouton Boy out. Get to know Hot Bio Girl instead of just lust­ing after her. Be friendly to Library Guy. 
Even if the first impression of Notre Dame made on my brother Mick is one of football fanaticism, he will soon diseover as the week­end unfolds that there is much more to this university. He will see the social side, the spiritual side, the academic side, and the people side, eomplete with all of our wonder­ful nicknames. 
And if my little brother develops one impression here this visit, he may develop another if he visits again someday. Just as if we actually, oh I don't know, eommunicate with each other here, we just may develop a very different sense of each other rather than the impression we originally had. 
Hey Head and Shoulders, guess what? You do get a second chance to make a first impression. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Tim Logan  Krisri Klirsch  
Erica Thesing  Sarah Dylag  
Brad Umiedr  Graphics  
Sports  Joe Mueller  
Allison Krilla  Production  
Viewpoint  Anthony Bianco  
Spencer Srefko  Lab Tech  
Kevin Dalum  

Tho Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and v=tcation periods. The Observer i!> a member of rhe A!!!lociared Pre!l!l. All reproduction right~ are reserved. 
Friday, September 25, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Fraternity sues former Western Kentucky chapter for hazing 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. 

The Kappa Sigma national fraterni­ty has filed suit against nine former Western Kappa Sigma members who allegedly hazed a student two years ago. 
The national organization said in a recently filed suit that it is not respon­sible for the alleged hazing of former Louisville student Eric Cecil, who sued the national organization after suffering a mental breakdown. 
Allegations of hazing surfaced in October 1996, when Cecil said he was hazed while pledging for the fraterni­ty in August 1996. The fraternity lost its charter at Western October 18, 1996, after the national organization received word of the alleged hazing. 
Cecil said members stripped him, made him bark while in a dog house, eat rotten food and drink excessive amounts of alcohol -all causing him to suffer an emotional breakdown. 
• PENN STATE 
............
·-----­

Cecil was hospitalized for mental problems for several weeks after the incident, according to David Gray, Cecil's attorney. 
Hudson senior Henry Pile, one of the nine defendants, refused to com­ment about either suit. Efforts to reach other members were unsuc­cessful. 
Cecil's case, which was opened in Warren County Circuit Court in August 1997, was expected to go to trial soon. But the national fraterni­ty's suit against the nine former members has delayed the proeeed­ings, since each of them must get his own lawyer. 

Kelly Thompson Jr.. an attorney for some of the former members, said it could be another year before the case is resolved. 
"It's hard to start a case when you can't get everybody together," Thompson said. "A lot of kids are movable, and not all have been served or at least they haven't got a lawyer. We're still at stage one." 
Gray said the national fraternity's deeision to file suit against the stu­dents is an attempt to delay the case, shift the blame and save money. 
"They're bringing in a bunch of young guys who have no assets," he said. "The national fraternity is turn­ing their backs on these guys and try­ing to place the blame elsewhere. 
"But the national fraternity will have to be ultimately responsible." 
Same-sex partners denied benefits 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
A gay or lesbian Penn State employee cannot receive 

health insurance benefits for his or her partner-regard­
less of how many years they've spent together or how 
intertwined their lives may be. But health benefits are 
extended to the partners of unmarried heterosexual 
employees due to a little-known Pennsylvania policy that 
recognizes "common-law" marriages. This contradiction 
shows Penn State's denial of same-sex domestie partner 
benefits (DPB) is indeed a case of discrimination, said 
Barbara Bullock, chair of Penn State's Employee Concerns 
Committee. Various committees and task forces at Penn 
State have tried to secure domestic partner medical bene­
fits andtuition reductions since 1992 -to no avail. At 
aFaculty Senate meeting Sept. 15, Penn State's Task Force 
on the Future of Benefits issued a report to the senate rec­
ommending DPB. 
• CALIFORNIA STATE UN!VERS!TY Sigma Pi shirt causes uproar 
SACRAMENTO. Calif. 

Under fire from feminist groups on campus, the CSUS chapter of Sigma Pi fraternity has been asked by their national office to stop using their rush slogan "We put the Pi back in Pimp." According to Mark Briscoe, executive director of Sigma Pi's international organization, the Eta Alpha chapter of Sigma Pi ereated the slogan on their own, without the support or participation of the national office. "It was absolutely a local decision. By no means was it a national or even regional slogan," Briscoe said. Chapter president Stephen Dean said the fraternity was told by Lou Camera, director of Student Activities, that there had been at least three complaints by students, who found the slogan offensive. Dean said the slogan, printed on flyers, posters and T -shirts, was a joke meant to grab attention. "It was a joke, an attention getter," Dean said. "It was in no way meant to offend or degrade." 
• COlUMBIA UNIVERSITY Senior dies in apparent suicide jump 
NEW YORK, N.Y 

Shirley Yoon, CC '99, was found dead yesterday on the 
roof above the stairwell to an East Campus townhouse, 
apparently having jumped from the roof of the adjacent 
20-story East Campus highrise, a police spokesperson 
said. Her body was discovered by a building resident at 
approximately noon yesterday. Director of Columbia 
Security George Smartt said. It is unclear how long her 
body had been there at the time of the discovery. Over a 
dozen police detectives and medical examiners swarmed 
the dormitory yesterday afternoon, closing off the 20th 
floor of the highrise, where Yoon lived, to non-residents. 
Columbia Security guards stood patrol in and around the 
building. Police left the body uncovered for nearly five 
hours atop the roof while detectives snapped polaroids 
and medical examiners in yellow gloves inspected the 
scene. 

• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Case opens confidentiality questions 
CHARLOTTESVILLE. Va. 
Honor Committee members voiced concerns about the 
state of the University's "community of trust" following an 
apparent breech of confidentiality by individuals dose to a 
recent case. Confidentiality questions first surfaced in 
response to last Thursday's edition of the Cavalier Daily, 
in which anonymous sources released details about the 
Investigation Panel dismissal of charges against Chris 
Butler, former Student Council chief financial officer. 
Committee bylaws promise students involved in an honor 
ease that all matters will remain confidential. All Honor 
Council members, including counsels, advisors and 
Committee members, are bound to maintain the privacy of 
those involved in the cases. According to the Committee 
handbook, confidentiality exists to spare the accused stu­
dent "worry or confusion that might result from hearing 
about an investigation seeond-hand." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Friday  ~'  76 64  
Saturday  ~'  84 6.4  
Sunday  r4;A  76 64  
Monday  ~  65 54  
Tuesday  ~  69 56  
r..,.  
/\  ..._;  


Q,Q,~q~Q {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraohicsNet 

V1a Assoc~ated Press  
Atlanta  84  64  Gary  81  65  Maui  84  66  
Boise  72  46  Fairbanks  54  41  Mobile  88  67  
Carmel  67  50  Fresno  84  55  Phoenix  94  66  
Chicago  82  64  Key West  87  78  Rochester 7 4  60  
Denver  82  48  Las Vegas 75  42  Tampa  89  72  


-·~----~----------------­
Friday, Seprember 25. 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

s z~ Parisi: 'We are ... in a pretty big mess' 
The Diversity Program of The College ofBusiness Administration presents a lecture by 
Assistant to the President & Assistant Director for Cross Cultural Ministry 
on 

Diversity at Notre Dan1e A CaiDpus Ministry Perspective 
Date:  Wednesday, September 30, 1998  
Time:  4:00 -5:00 pm  
Place:  COBA 161  
• Refreshments will be served  

Chandra johnson directs the African Spirituality Program, a cross cultural initiative for African-American students which she developed and implements on campus. 
Need Cash?? $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
.----....1----..K..----, 
11:30 am 3:00pm 6:30pm 7:30pm 
Saturday, September 26 
11:00 am Shenanigans & Glee Club North Dome JACC Band Concert Bond Hall NO vs, Purdue Go Irish! Men's SoccerdM vs. St.John's 
12:00 noon 
The Observer/Joe Mueller 


THE BElGER MANSION INN 
MICHIANA 'S BEST KEPT DINING SECRET! Voted best entree "Taste ofMichiana", 1998. 
Big city dining with small town atmosphere. Only 15 minutes from Notre Dame. Reservations accepted We also offer elegant overnight accommodations. 
317 LINCOLNWAY EAST* MISHAWAKA* INDIANA 255-3939 
Open House NO stadium ND Football Luncheon tickets required Historical Tour of meet at main circl\ Women's Soccer vs. Indiana Un Pep Rally JACC 
5'11 lTC { ( /k
lVJI pro a S 
abOUt the nature 0 f the s0 uI 
By RUTH SNELL News Writer 
Thomas Parisi put the rnlationship bntween the soul and the brain into a new context yesterday by drawing on scientific leaders like Froud to explore the biologieal and natural -rather than religious -history of the soul in his lecture at Saint Mary's. 
"When looking for the soul, I am reminded that we are evolved crea­tures," said Parisi, chair of the psy­chology department at thn College. "We are contingent creatures. The fact that we are here at all is because of nature." 
lie also !)mphasized that people's emotional lives are often morn impor­tant than their cognitive ones. 
Our cognitive abilitins and intelli­
gence enable us to communicate cortexes, but dolphins also havo neo­through language, but they also pm-cortexes: In fact, dolphin brains are sent us with the emotional problem of larger. expressing ourselves, according to "A dolphin brai!1 i~ to a human br:air~ Parisi. We can't perceive ourselves as as a human bram rs to a rat bram, 
ot~~~~!~· to me we arc Pa~~":, ~~li!.ill bl~ our creatures in a pretty larger noocortex big mess ... because of 'WHEN LOOKING FOR that leads to our the evolutionary niche inevitabln exline-
THE SOUL, I AM f" · •
we lind ourselves in," tion, or. Pansr Parisi noted. "We REMINDED THAT WE ARE noted, biologically experience an alien-EVOLVED CREATURES.' all species become 
ation which we always seek to remove, but that remains." 
This alienation leads to anxiety, and as far as we actually know, this problem is uniquely ours. Although the Lord's Prayer says "and protect us from all anxiety," it is this anxiety that makes us human. Without the anxiety we would be just like all other species, according to Parisi. 
But we may not be the only crea­lures in such a mess. Human brains are distinguished by very large neo-

OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 2-4 
60614 

Attention NO Fans-Own this WATERFRONT 3BR, 3 bath Ranch home. Approx. 12-15 min SW of campus. Separate heated office or guest bldg. Gorgeous gardens, 10.5 acres. Take Mayflower Rd. South of SR#23 to Sumption Tr. Come See!! $250,000 Donna Bachtel, Century 21 Jen Dunfee. 256-2825 

extinct. Nuclear 
power and envi-THOMAS PARISI ronnHmtal prob­
!ems, among nth­
ers, will lead to humanity's downfall. 
To relieve anxiety and "existential dread," humans turn to c;od and sci­ence. Parisi emphasized that humans are the only creatures who n1~nd God to do this. 
Parisi's lneture was part of "The Landseape of the Soul" series high­lighted by the Center for Spirituality this fall. 
•latest i11 cuts a11d styles •color, highlighti11g a11d pe17ns • styles a11d updo 's for special occnsiow • quality products i11cluding A veda, Nexxus, and Paul Mitchell 
277-1875 

convienentfy located at 1707 South Bend Ave. (in walking distance from ND) experience and quality guttmnteed1 
Call 234-60 1 0 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN . 

~~--~----------------------~---------------------7----~---.----------~----~---­
page 4 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 25, 1998 



The Ur1ban Pllillnge Seminar 
The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. As a participant. you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past 
have included:  
Albany  New Orleans  
Atlanta  Memphis  
Brooklyn  Nashville  
Harlem  Seattle  
Baltimore  Phoenix  
Washington  Honolulu  
Los Angeles  and many more sites  

As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. There will be an information session on September 28th at 8:30 at the CSC 
I Not I but the city teaches. -Socrates \ FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CONTACT the Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndcntrsc Application Deadline --Friday, November 6 
public too. They just have a Additionally, administrators

Big Ten 
much broader base of accep­will evaluate Notre Dame's posi­tance for admission than Notre tion not only in athletics but in continued from page 1 Dame or Northwestern." how it is perceived nationally
This is an advantage for the and internationally. where we will be 20 to 30 years University, according to Gregory "We have to look at what isfrom now. Sterling, chairman of the Faculty going to help us most in the
"We're trying to have foresight Senate's academic affairs com­future," Wadsworth said. "We'rebecause this is a decision with mittee and an associate profes­asking whether it is to ourlong-reaching ramifications," he sor of theology. 
advantage to continue marketing continued. "Joining the Big Ten "We are studying the advan­ourselves as being and indepen­is a major com-

dent institution and the

mitment that you premiere Catholic univer­can't walk away sity in the world or would
from after two 
'IT wouw BE A VERY EASY 
we be in a better position

years and go 
DECISION IF IT WAS JUST by joining the conferenceback in the other THE DOLLARS AND CENTS OF IT.' of the Big Ten and thedirection." 
recognition that would

Joining the Big bring.
Ten has more 
MICHEAL WADSWORTH "It would be a very easythan just athletic ATHLE7JC DIRECTOR decision if it was just the

implications. 
dollars and cents of it," heWith members including large, said. "It's more relative to

public state schools such as tages and disadvantages," 
the long-term positioning of the Michigan, Wisconsin and Penn Sterling said. "There are mostly University."State University, Notre Dame plusses." 

The Observer: We've got issues 
would be affiliating itself with some of the nation's top research universities. 
The University would not be the lone private school in the Big Ten, should it decide to join. It would also be able to maintain its admission and academic standards. 
"There are varying degrees of difference between the schools, but Northwestern is a member that would be most like us in terms of size, academic standing and being a private institution," Wadsworth said. 'There are sig­nificant pockets of excellence at the member schools which are 
Wadsworth agreed. 
''I've had discussions with fac­ulty members about it and there are some who see the Big Ten as a structure that goes beyond athletic competition," he said. "Other benefits would be oppor­tunities for research for faculty members." 
Various University officials will be involved in the final decision. 
"This is a decision by the University that will involve all aspects of the University putting forth pros and cons which join­ing or not joining the Big Ten may offer," Wadsworth said. "That's the way it should be." 
9:00-11:30 Keenan Basement 
Refreshments Provided 
Earn one credit while learning in a city ... continue the tradition 


Testing 
continued from page 1 
Nearly all employees who are not faculty members are sub­ject to the tests. "It does not effect student employees because that office is basically an extension of financial aid," Mullins said. 
"It also does not inelude 'on call' employees such as football ushers or football Friday lunch workers," added Nugent. 
The testing procedure will be funded for by the department of Hiring and conducted by tak­ing a hair sample. 
"This is a very accurate method and can precisely tell which drug was used. Unlike urine testing, it detects drug use from back in time," Mullins said. 
"Our particular sample will discover drug use from up to three months back," added Nugent. "To emphasize how accurate these test are, the Chicago Police Department uses the same tests from the same company." 

IFrrftrumv~ S5ceiJ)U®Illllbcerr ~~ 
Featuring the music of 
Chris Goddard Justin Dunn Josh Gerloff Hotel Prati 
R~~ 
• 

•
0 NOTRE DAME r;;;;:~ 
APARTMENTS \_J}!'J •ONLYAFEWLEFT!! 
•
Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus 

•
Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available 

•
September-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" month's rent 

•Pre-Leasing 
for Fall of'99 



66The Best 'V~lue nn OU~Campus Housnng 
Managed By Real Estate Management Corportatior 234-9923 
• 

~..------------------..~~~~--~--~---.------------------~----------------------------~ 



·· ··· ···· 
Friday. Scp[cmbcr 25, I 998 
• 
Women's group begins poll 
A !-(roup promotin!-( womPn in politics is ask­in!-( tlw country to dP!Prminl' which wonHlll would lw rapahll' of running for pn~sidnnt. Tht• Whitt• llous<' anJWlliH'Pd plans to mail I million ballots list­in!-( 20 prominPnt wonwn and asking pnopiP to pil'k liw tiH·y think an• capahll' of snnkin!-( thn Whilt• llousP. Thf' group also plans to placn~ ballots in maga;.inPs surh as l'aradn, Clamour . .laJH'. hsi'JH'C', and I'Popl<' and on its WdJ sitn: www.tlwwhitPiwusPprojl'l'l.or!-(. to gPt a f'onvPrsation goin!-( that changPs thn l'lima!l'," said MariP Wilson, lwad of tlw pro­jl'f't, a Nl'w York-basPd nonpartisan group. Ms. Wilson notl'd that whiln wonwn for .'12 Jlf'!'Cf'll! of tlw population, tlwy mako up lJ pl'rrl'nl of Llw Sl'nall', llous1• and(, IWI'I'I'nl of tlw nation's govnnwrs. 
Kabila announces elections 
l'rPsidPnl l.atJJ'Pnt Kahila plans to hold prPsidPnlial PIPrtions n«'xt ynar, statf~-con­lrollt•d radio rPporlf•d today. n•Vf'rsal of ParliPr dl'f'isions to postponl' thn volP. Kahila's rPn•nt surcPss in lighting a six­WI'I'k n~lwllion has hoostPd his popularity and may havn inlluPJH'nd his dP!'ision to allow t~h~ctions in April. liP has also bPPn unch~r international prPSSlii'P to hold a national voto sincP taking powt•r last Y"'"'· ousting longtimn dictator Mohutu SPSC' SPko. liP initially promisl'd Pine­lions in IlJfJlJ but lwdgPd SPVPral times, say­in!-( l'Onditions may not lw ronducivn to f'rnl' and fair voting. But today, tlw Voicn of llw I'PopiP Hadio quotPd Kabila as saying, "Tiw P!Pt'tion pnH'PSS will start with prnsidPntial f'IPf'tions." WhiiP many Congolnsn havn said Kahila has dmw liti!P to hnlp lhn nconomy or n~build tlw rounlry, a growing numlwr now say tlwy support llw prPsidPnt bnrausp of' his ability to put down tlw uprising. 
Rats invade White House 
WASIIINGTON 
"llirty rats" among llw Whiln llousn press !'orps'.' Nothing JWW: Kill 'pm anyway, ordPJ'Pd MikP Mf'Curry. WorkPrs from tlw (;Pnf•ral SPrVil'I'S Administration laid traps Thursday ai'!Pr CBS NPws corrnspondPnt !'1'!1'1' Maf'r-first through lhP Wnst Wing hriPI'ing room door at (,:I 0 a.m. -was grPPtl'd by what lw rallml an iS-to 10-inch­Pr, not rounting llw tail. "I know tlw f'enl­ing." rommisnratnd McCurry. tho White llousP pn•ss sPr.rPtary who confronts pnsky n•portPrs' qtwstions in thn same room just about nvPry day. lin opnnnd Thursday's briPfing, whirh was broarkast livn by CNN, with tlw annourH'Pnwnt that (;SA worknrs would "t~apturP and PxlPrminatc" thn crit­tPr. "It's a prohlPm thny arc very familiar with, apparPIILly, lwn~ in tlw prnss briefing room." MrCurry said. 
NPMMI\0f8U1WJW 

AMEX: 642.30 
-.\.71! Nasdaq: 1720..H ·.l'>.93 NYSE: )16.59 ·10.36 S&l' 500: 1042.72 

Composite
-2.\.37 

Volume:-I 52.42 799,690,694 
VOLUME LEADERS 

'U&ted:Sl:: nrb:ru '!ilnld:S,ir I 'iAI~ llHif~ 
IHII. t"P~IPUII n IIF. I. I. -I hS -1.0625 b.l..\125 f'\C Ill. IN<. xnr +.t.M •I ..H50 W.J25 ~\HI WPIU.IlUIM INC WC'()M -4.9-J -2.11000 4K.75 MU'IH)\tWI l'ORI' MWI' -J.OK ..1,;000 110.125 l:l)MPAll C'l1MI'U I U~ (:I'll Ulldl \Uii.:ll :\2.Mi75 1NHI< <>KI' INT<: ·2.01 -1.7500 K;.J 125 YAIIUO INt YIIOO ·2.2.1 -2.6250 11.1.25 I~AVI I.U:RS liiHIUP TRV ·7.72 ·.1.1325 .19.02.1 Cl~l"O \Y\ I~ M~ <~co .1.1)8 ·1..1125 04.9.175 \PDR !Ski' 500! SPY ·2.45 ·2.6250 104.375 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 25, 1998 
ND/SMC Students and faculty show ID at the door
Macri's 
and receive a 30% discount on tickets (or purchase tickets in advance at Parisi's Restaurant) 
Italian Bakery 
Apply at 214 N. Niles Ave. 
Business 
continued from page 1 
llarr, referring to increases in customers to restaurants and other businesses resulting from the addition. 
"The phone calls have increased but we can only accommodate so many each week­end," said McDonnell. He explained that since the LaSalle Grill seats by reservation only, the expansion hasn't impacted the vol­ume of clients they serve. lie has definitely noticed the impact of greater numbers of people, though. 
"It's a very busy time in the community, yet an exciting time to work," said Marijo Martinec, director of Public Helations and Communication for the Convention and Visitor's Bureau of the St. Joseph County Chamber of Commerce. Martinec agreed that the success of the football team had a signifi­cant impact on the economy. "If Notre Dame has a losing season, hotels call with rooms available." 
"Who the opponent is dictates how long the people stay," said llarr. who noted that the geographic location of the opponent affects the likelihood and duration of hotel stays. 
"The increase in the Notre Dame seating in the stadium doesn't really all'ect us because our hotels were full," said Martinec. The number of rooms in South Bend has not increasPd to the degree that seating in the stadium has. However. Martinec indicated 
SMC Class of '02 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE News Writer 
After a day of voting, two tick­ets remain in contention for the freshman class presidency/vice presidency at Saint Mary's College. The ticket of Katie O'Connell and Michelle Nagle 

24.87% 20.31% 14.92% 12.93% 12.43o/o 7.96% 3.38% 2.98% 
The Observer/Joe Mueller 
will face oil' against Callie Kuhen and Erin Weldon in Monday's run-ofl'. 
"The first time we were told on the phone we were ecstatic, but 

38 GH!lR'I' SL"''GJ..Eili 
3 GOJ..D !lbHUMS
now we realize how hard it will 

laptanDr Zl.­
be to run against our friends," said O'Connell. "We are grateful 

IIID'B 1m1 at 7:0!!pm r.lJVIa It7:mn 
Tlcl81S lnlm $10.00-$15.00
we got this far though." 

Tickets available at: 1111 IIIIa StrlltClfl %1..Z34-411ili Tile IIIIa 11111111'1 %1..!2!-1118 
Plrill's ~~s~~nm· ....._ 211-m.uu 
that no large-scale plans are underway to increase the number of hotels in the area. 
"I think right now [the increased seating] is certainly something that developers look at, but they also have to be aware of the 46 weeks per year that are not football week­ends," she said. In the mean time, Martinec said, outlying areas such as Elkhart, LaPorte and southwestern Michigan have experi­enced increases in hotel business. 
'THE INCREASE IN ••• SEATING ••• 
DOESN'T REALLY AFFECT US 
BECAUSE OUR HOTELS WERE FULL.' 
MARlO MARTINEC 
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 
Harr said that there have been a handful of new hotels and motels in the South Bend area. These have been confined to "limited service" hotels, which are hotels that offer rooms, but which do not provide restaurant or other hospitality options that full service hotels provide. He noted that there has not been one full service hotel built in the city since 1981. The limited service hotels are able to support lower revenue streams to make up for the non-football periods. 
"We need more demand factors in the community to support full service hotels," said Harr. 

Despite the somewhat mixed impact of the stadium expansion, there seems to be no doubt that the University in general has a significant annual direct economic impact on the community. That impact on the Michiana region was measured at one-half billion dol­lars in a 1991 survey completed by the Independent Colleges and Universities of Indiana, Inc. (!CUI). 
That figure was calculated without includ­ing major factors such as construction and tourism. Other factors that were not consid­ered, but which definitely impact the econo­my, are the housing and food costs of the more than 3,000 students who live off cam­pus and the expenditures of the thousands of' tourists who patronize area restaurants, ser­vice stations and hotels while in the area to visit campus for various reasons. 
Notwithstanding the significant impact of the University, there are no formal approval processes in place with the county, beyond that required for any other business or citi­zen, according to Dennis Brown, associate director of Public Helations and Information for the University. "There's no obligation because we're private property," he said. 
"We've got sueh a great relatitmship with the loeal government," said Brown. "We communicate with local government regard­ing many things that go on here." 
Till Still,118
tiU.IIIcallll SnlahU,.UIIl rlf.II!-Ult 
Presents 
If you see news happening, please let us know. Our number is 1-5323 

·us CANDLES" STEP 8Y STEP 
ANGElS lfSTENEO IN 
SIX NIGHTS A WEEK SWEETEST ONE 
JUAINTA 




SIIIIW ltlrtl at 9:I!O!In 


Wednesday, September 25, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Albright optimistic on world crises u.s. • •
Income rises 
Associoucd Press put the nuclear genie back in right direction," Albright said. the bottle. And she east devel­Applying traditional diplomatic UNITI\Il NATIONS opments in the Balkans in the caution, though, she reminded 
while poverty falls
l>ndaring lwrsnlf an "otnrnal samo favorable light. rnporters that there was a lot of 
optimist," Sncrntary of State "We kHep making progress" work to done across thH board. Mad 1d n i n n A I brigh L said in helping Israel and the "We are constantly working Thursday the Palostinians rnach a West Bank at them," Albright told administra­accord, slw added. reporters. "And as I have beon tion was tak­An administration official asked many times before, I am ing small said Thursday that Clinton an eternal optimist. which is stPps toward invit!1d Israeli Prime Minister what you need to be to keep rPsolving Bnnjamin Notanyahu and pushing this process forward." conl'licts in Palestinian leader Yasser India's pledge Thursday to thn Midnast, Ara/'at to snparate meetings at sign the nuclear test ban treaty tlw Balkans . tho White Ilouse next week in if negotiations arn coneluded India and hopns o/' hrnaking the Mideast succnssfully followed by a day a Pakistan. deadlock. pledge by Pakistan to sign next 
SpPaking Albright met with Netanyahu year. outside thn U.N. Security on Wndn11sday, and was Carefully, Albright described Coundl chamber wlwrn she sat expnctnd to see Arafat over the the twin steps as "some for four years as tlw U.S. reprn­weekend. progress." as she hailed the Simtativn, Albright hailed stnps "There are small steps in all two old antagonists' contested taken by India and Pakistan to these areas that lead in the territory of Kashmir. 



ofNotre Dame~ the Offictal CampLM Guide at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. .. Notre Dame, the O.ffi!:ia/ Campw Guu)e by Damaine Vonada is the first definitive guide­book ever written about the University of Notre Dame. Inside is a comprehensive, lively collection of facts and anecdotes, historical information, sketches, and color photographs, all organized in an easy to use format. It leads readers on exciting tours of every quad and major university building. It even provides 
tips on where to park, eat, and find lodging. 
This guidebook is an excellent introduction 
to the campus for new visitors and it will inform, entertain, challenge and surprise alumni and campus regulars. 
Highly readable and entertaining, 
Notre Dame, the Official Campu,t Gllli:)e 
will appeal to actual and "armchair" visi­tors alike. This instant classic makes an ideal gift and is the ultimate, one-size­
fits-all Notre Dame souvenir. 

Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
A continued decline in poverty ratns among blacks and Hispanics cheered minority nconomie experts, but they worried about what could happen if and when the nation's healthy economy catches a cold. 
"Any decline in poverty rates is good news. but what happens when things slow down?" said Robert B. Hill. director of the Institute of Urban Hesearch at Morgan State University. "Too many blacks are in poverty now in these good economic times, so it makes you wonder how 
bad things will get in  a  slow  
economy."  
Hill and other black  eco­ 

nomic experts fear minorities employment pool begins to dry. 
"We haven't done enough to raise people's skill level for the jobs that will be produced in the future," said Margaret Simms. an economist and vice president at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington. "Once the strong economy is gone. I don't see anything on the horizon that will prop up these positive changes in the poverty rate." 
Propelled by the seven-year economic surge, the poverty rate dipped from 13.7 percent to 13.3 percent last year, according to the Census Bureau annual income and poverty 
report. In 1997, the poverty rate meant an annual income of $16,400 for a family of four. 
But the real news came in the huge drops in minority poverty rates. 
The number of poor blacks dropped by 600,000 to 9.1 million as the poverty rate plunged from 28.4 percent to 
26.5 percent in the last year. In 1983, the black poverty rate was 35.7 per­cent. 
For Hispanics. who can be of any race, the number in poverty fell from 8. 7 million to 
8.3 million as the poverty rate tumbled from 29.4 percent to 
27.1 percent. While the brighter economic 

picture has extended to 
minorities. it wasn't always 
the case that minoritins 
shared in good fiscal times 
nationally. said William 
Spriggs, direetor of HnsHarch 
and Public Policy for tho 
National Urban League. 
When the economy grew 
from 1983 to 1988, minority 
poverty rates stayed flat or 
nudged slightly lower, he said. 
Spriggs credited an increas11 in the minimum wage, the earned ineome tax credit and better enforcement of federal laws barring discrimination in hiring as reasons 
why "the Clinton recovery has done more for minorities than the Hnagan recovt~ry." 
"Biaeks are now benefiting the way they should have but didn't in the mid 1980's," Spriggs said. "Under Heagan. the minimum wagn didn't keep paee with inflation 
and tax relief came for peo­ple at the top." 
"Tho tax erndit has brought some I'Ciief to peopln at tl11~ middln and the bottom." lw said. 
The lownr blat:k povnrty ratt~ is part of a package of positiVI! rceent indicators for blacks. said National Urban Leagun President llugh Price. 
Black men who work full time arn narrowing the gap between their incomes and those of white males. Black home ownership has been sharply increasing. And blaek 
high school graduation rates, which long lagged behind those of white stu­dents, arc now nearly equal to white rates. 
"We are seeing some wel­comed improvemnnt in areas," Price said. "But there are still some stubborn gaps in standardized test scores and black and white family assets and wealth that won't go away." 
Simms said the demand for higher job skills means educa­tional leaders and businnss 
lead11rs should do more to match the skills of nnweomers 
to the workforce with job providers. 

Benefits the Cycling Club! 
-....--~----~~--~ -~-­
--~--~--·----~ 
page 8 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 25, 1998 









Vince Bernardin Jeremy Burke Lou DelFra JeffDuba Sean Farnan Michael Griffin Evansville, IN Lansing, MI South Bend, IN Grand Rapids, MI Chicago, IL Alext~.ndria, VA ND 'OJ ND '98 ND'92 ND '99 ND '94 ND '93 
Michael Wurtz 
Pocahontas, AR ND '99 

Chuck Witschorik Naperville, IL ND '99 

Nate Wills 
Mendota Heights, MN ND '99 

Stephen Sanchez 
Alamogordo, NM ND 'OJ 

Brian Reinhart 
Columbus, OH Ohio State U '96 

Frank Quinn, Jr. 
Bridgewater, Nj ND '02 

"CHRIST expects GREAT things from YOUNG PEOPLE" 
--Pope john Paul II 
On August 14, eighteen men entered Old College and Moreau Seminary's Candidate Program 
The Congregation of Holy Cross thanks them for taking this year to consider a lifetime commitment of faith, service, and brotherhood in dedicated service to the Church. 
Pray for them. Pray for us. Pray that all ofus will have the strength to answer God's call--now and FOREVER. 
Say not, "! am too young. " You shall go to whom I send -jeremiah 1:7 
For more information on our program for undergraduates at Old College or for graduate students at Moreau Seminary, contact: Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 



Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 www.nd.edu/ -vocation vocation. I @nd.edu 
ANSWER ~ 
THE CALL '<!Y 

Ralph Haag 
Omaha, NE Creighton U '98 

Scott Hardy 
Grand Rapids, MI ND'02 

Mark Holloway 
Forest Hill, LA 
ND '98MBA 

Jon Lang 
Dubuque, !A Clarke College '96 

Cort Peters 
San Diego, CA ND '96 

Thomas Prall 
Danville, I L ND '02 


~----~~---~ ~ 

Friday, September 25, 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
NATO prepares for air strikes against Yugoslavia 

•

the a n s we \;,;~:[:,:::,::ii~'~);n!J 
l!i's 

Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, em~loy, tr~in, compensate, and p_romo~~ without regard to race, religion, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual or1entat1on, man tal status, d1sab1hty, or veteran status. 
©1998 Deloitte & Touche LLP. 

,_ 
American Heart a-A 
Association~V' 
F/ghtlnQ Hfl•rt D/6t1SM •ndSirok• 
,__ 
~Yii'""""
' ' 
SUPPORT MEDICAL RESEARCH. 
©1997. American Heart Association 
Armag•ddon  PG 13  
2;45. 7;20, 10;25  
Blad•  
2;40, 3;45, 5;20, 7;35, 8;00,  
10;20, 10;35  
Dead Man on Campus  
3;10, 5;40, 7;55, 10;10  
Fifty-Four  
1;55, 4;00, 7;00, 9;50  
Halloween H2  
2;20. 4;20, 7;00, 9;30  
How Stella Got Her Groove  
7;30,10;15  
Ron in  
2;00, 3;30, 4;40, 7;05, 7:30,  
9;45, 10;10  
Saving Private Ryan  
2;10. 3:00, 5:35, 7:15, 7:45, 9; 1 s  
Small Soldi•rs  PG 13  
2;05, 4;25  
Snak• Ey•s  
2;15. 4;30, 7;10, 9;40  
Th• Mask of Zorro  PG13  
1;55, 4;45, 7;35, 10;35  
Wrongfully Accus•d  PG 13  
2;30, 5;25  


10041"1 TIME! Ott! fOUR DA! AOV4NCI IICKIT lAlii HIINDIU.' ACCI.Ill8ll fNO IAS511 . NO !JI!tl4Vfll 

Associated Press 
Vll.AMOUBA. Portugal 
NATO instruetml its generals Thursday to begin preparing for air strikt~s on Yugoslavia unlPss l'rt~sidnnt Slobodan Milosnvir I'IHls his attacks on Pthnic Albanians in Kosovo. 
The big question now: Will the tough Yugoslav presidnnt bn intimidatml'? 
Tlw diiTnr·tnJcn between this artion and previous NATO tough talk is tlw lorw and the liming, NATO ol'lidals assnrted. A tough U.N. resolution WPdnnsday, rombinnd with NATO's "activation warning" Thursday of phasl'd air strikes and cruise missill' attarks takns llw I (HJation all ianen to the brink of shooting. 
"Today, NATO sent a rlear ml'ssagl'. to l'n~sidnnl. Milos(Wir that it is time to stop tlw killing and dt>strurtion in Kosovo." said U.S. lll'i'I'IISI' SnrrPtary William Cohen after a meeting of allied dnl'ensc ministers. "Our patitmen is running out." 
NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana said the activa­tion warning from the North Atlantic Counr.il. NATO's top policy-making body, takes NATO "to an inr.reased level of military preparedness." 
But he addod, "Lnt me stress that tho use of force will requiro furthor deeisions" by NATO govornments. 
Miloscvic's massive attacks on nthnic Albanian villages in Kosovo havo continund unabat­t~d since February, despite pre­vious NATO throats. llis seven­month crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists fighting for indeptHJdmJcn in Kosovo has claimed hundrnds of lives and forced as many as 275,000 peo­ple from tlit~r homos. 
Previous threats of military action havo failod to persuade Milosovic to nwnd his ways, and thn latnst sabor-rattling from the alliance did not appear to havo slowed his onslaught on Kosovo, a province of Sorbia where ethnic Albanians make up 90 percent of the population. 
If the political decision is made to launch a NATO mili­tary action against Yugoslavia, it would be a phased campaign, gradually increasing in intensi­ty. 
"The targets would be mili­tary targets," said Walter B. Slocombe, U.S. undersecretary of defense for policy. "Vnry, very nffective and very, very strong blows would be aimed at the very instruments that Milosevic is using to carry out this repression." 
Asked if he thought NATO could bomb Milosevic into sub­mission. Gen. Henry Slwlton, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chief's of Staff, said: "I believe that we have a wide range of options available to us, the end result ol' which will be that Milosevic will comply with tho demands made of him by NATO." 
"Certainly we will start with the lighter of the options to give him a chance to respond," he added. "But it might not end with the light option." 
Gen. Wesley Clark, the supreme allied commander in Europe, said it would take "just a very few days" to line up the necessary forces to begin a mil­itary operation. lie has already surveyed what he will need; now, under the "aetivation warning," he will be asking for specific commitments. 
A number of countries indi­cated at Thursday's ministerial meeting they would participate, according to Slocombe. None said they would not. 
Clark noted that Milosevic is moving fast to complete the destruction ol' ethnic Albanian villages before winter sets in. 
"Belgrade is clearly conduct­ing a war against its own pen-pie," said German Defense Minister Volker Huehc. "Pictures of people camping out in the open ... are in themselves an ultimatum" to Milosevie. 
The NATO defense ministers made clear their call for a ces­sation of hostilities goes out to both sides. "All of tho blame for this war does not entirely rest with the Serbian sidn," Slocombe said. 
NATO has no military assets of its own except for somn com­munications hardware and air­borne warning and eontrol air­craft. But it has aeeess to a wide array of equipmont from the national armies ol' all its members except lct~land, whit:h has no military force. The three candidate members, Poland, Hungary and thP Czech Bepublic, who will bn welcomed into the NATO fold next April, have also said they are pre­partld to participate in the Kosovo operation. 
Please recycle The Observer 

w·~-­

II 
1n 
II 
I 
protessiona~
oevelopmen 


"My three years at SCORE! provided me with the perfect training ground for business school. I couldn't have asked for a better opportunity." 





tion tor 

preparad SchOOlS 
toP Gra 
For more information contact SCORE!, 
Ben Besley, Harvard Business School '99 
a unit of the Washington Post Co.: www.scorejobs.com 
Think again. 
Apply to SCORE! It's a perfect fit. 
RESUME DROP on Monday, September 28 and Tuesday, September 29 Where: Career Placement Services 
Friday, September 25, I 998 The Observer· BUSINESS NEWS page 1 I 
• i: iARO 
• WORLD BANK 
U.S. job growth slowed, but not stopped in last quarter 
Fed chief hints 
at interest rate cut soon 
WASIIIN<;TON 

Th1• Am<·ril'an joh mark<•t is holding up l'airly Wl'll dPspill' \\'l'aknPss sloshing arross llll' hord<·rs l'rom ov<•rsPas. hut <'rorwmisls warn that may not n·main tnu~ murh longPr. 
In a l'n•sh Pstima!.<', tlw <:omm<'r<'P I>Ppart.m<•nt said Thursd<tY llw l't'ono­my gri'W at ;l larkluslnr 
I.X p<'ITI'nt annual rall' during th1• 1\pril-.lunl' quarll•r. 
l;lohal l'rorwmir tur­moil and olhl'r l'artors rl'durnd it to lPss than hall' llw vibrant. :i.:i lll'r­1'1'111 ral<' of' lhP Vl'ar's lirsl tim•<• months.' and analysts don't <'Xp<•rtmurh lwlll'r gro~lh IJI'(tll"f' ni'XI yPar. 
I>Pspil<· that, llrl'l'l' Sl'paratn rPporls showPd llw U.S. Pxpan­sion -at 7 1/<! Yl'ars till' SI'COIHI longl'sl in histor:y -has lili• Jpf'l yl'l. · First-limP rlaims for unPm­ploynwnl IH'nl'lit.s I'PII hy X,OOO to a sPasonally adjusted <! 1)2,000 last W<'l'k, t.lu~ lowest l<'V<'I in livP months, llw Labor I>Pparlml'nt. said. 
Thl' <:onl'<•rl'lll'l' Hoard, a pri­vati' lnrsirwss rPs<•arTh group in NPw York. said major nl'wspa­pPrs t•njoy<•d strong sail's of' lll'lp-wanll'd advPrtis<'llll'nls in August. Its rnonthly advPrtising irrd<·x rosl' to 1J<!, up on<' point l'rom July. 
And 111:dl'rs l'or hig-tirkl't far­lory goods jumpl'd I .ll pPIT<'nl in August. tlw third t'OIISPrutivP gain to follow a :L:! pPrrPnl plungl' in i\1ay. tlu• <:omllli'ITI' l>PpartmPnt said. 
All tlm•p rPports support tlw viP\\' th1• U.S. l't'orromy will \VI'alhl'r t.hl' Prorromit· storms that so l'ar havP triggnrnd slumps in 1\sia and Hussia and t.hrl'al<•npd Latin 1\mnrica. 
"l;rowth will contirHrn, only at a slowl'r pacn," said l'<:onomist .ll'rry .lasinowski, prnsidl'nt or tim National 1\ssoriation of Manul'ar.lun•rs. 
But lw and otlwr analysts not.Pd that both tl11~ urwrnploy­rnPnt claims and factory ordnrs rPports wPrl' wPaknr than tlwy lirsl apJH~arPd. Without a surge in aircrall ordnrs and a whound in auto nrar11rfart.uring rnlkc.t.ing t.hn nnd of' tlw Cnrwral Motors slrikPs, ord1•rs for durabll' goods, ill•ms PXjWI'.tnd to last tlrn•p or mon• ypars, would havn fa linn 2. I pnn:nnt in August. 
And continuing -as opposml to rww -urwmploynwnt claims rosn by 2,000 but remairwd Bngional Financial 1\ssor.iat<~s in W<~st Chnstnr. l'a., said busirwss­ns an~ filling positions that have bnnn opnn for some months ratlwr than creating nnw posi­tions. 

lin said by narly next year thn impal'i of tlw world slump will bn l'nlt more broadly in tlw U.S. nconomy than just in agricul­ture, nnergy and manufar.turing. Chances of a n~cession rwxt ynar havn ris1m to about onn in thn~n. hn said. 
FPdnral Beserve Chairman /\Jan Croenspan signaled in a 
Senat1~ eommittne 
appearance 
Wednesday that 
'THE RISK TO OUR ECONO­he and his r.ol­lcagues were
MY IS REAL, AND AS THE 

ready to supportCRISIS HAS GONE ON ••• THAT 
economic growth by eulling short­RISK HAS BECOME GREATER.' 
term interest rates as narly as RmumT RIIIJIN next wenk. IIis n~m arks
Sf:'CIWTAIIY OF Till:' TI!I:'IISUIIY 

basically urH'.hangnd at 2.2 million. 
That's a sign it's laking a long time for llw unmnployed to lind work. and many nconomisls bnlicwn owrsnas turmoil will fur­
tlwr  nrodl'  labor  marknt  
strPngth.  
Hconomist  Mark Zandi  of  

Gross domestic product 
1:·11~ (:.,(~·P n·.:;~;.,,rro;::; "' :tw: ~·.>:.tl1!; ·.ll(! SC'"•I'c.I'!S :11'-:J•juU:..,j tiY \...)(if:IS :rrd r:.·;.III;JIIr-.::armtmlf1ql. tn•r,!r: "113li!~. r-:·~aro:H·~~~ C•l o~.ni!rstir• 

sent tlw Dow 
Jones averago of industrial stocks soaring 257 points, but traders used that advance as an opportunity to rnalizn profits Thursday. Tlw indnx fell 152 points to dose at X,002. 
Trnasury Sncrotary Hobert Hubin, speaking to report!H'S a day al'tnr Greenspan's tnslimo­ny, said ho believes the U.S. economy remains on a good path. But he add!ld, "Hisk to our economy is real, and as thn cri­sis has gone on ... that risk has 
bcw.omt~ grnat1~r." 

Thursday's estimate of sec­
ond-quartor growth in tlw gross 
donwstk product, tlw value of 
all goods and services producod 
within U.S. borders, was a bit 
bnttnr than the J.(J pnrcent rate 
ostimatnd a month ago. 
Businessns sharply slowed 
production of goods lilr invento­
ry, and that alone su btractnd 
2.7 p<m~nntagn points from tho growth rate. Also, tho global slowdown showed up in a drop in export sales, at a 7.7 perc<mt annual ratn. and an increase in imports at a 9.3 percent ratn. 
After-tax corporatn profits managed a weak rebound in tho S<lcond quarter. rising 0.6 per­cent following back-to-hack drops during the two previous quarters. 
Officials confident, despite loan increase 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Increased lending by tho 
World Bank in response to 
Asia's financial erisis does not 
mean tho organization has 
become a eash m1tehine for 
global financial problems. 
bank ollicials say. 
They maintain tho increased 
risk these loans carry for the 
bank should not eause con­
cern in tho market because 
the bank has a reputation for 
prudent management and 
clear finaneial statements. 
The organization's annual 
report. released Thursday, 
said structural adjustment 
loans increased from $350 
million in 1996 to $8.2 billion 
in the liseal year that ended 
June 30. This represents 39 
percent of total bank loans 
compared with 9 percent for 
1997 and 2 pereont for 1996. 
Governments use structure 
loans to make changes in how 
they operato. The loans are 
different from ones f(Jr devel­
opment projects such as 
improving or building schools 
or roads. 
Mark Malloch Brown, the 
bank's vice president for 
• NEW ZEALAND 
extnrnal all'airs, said tho struc­tuntl adjustment loans com­plomont tho role of the bank's sister institution, the International Monetary Fund. The IMF has pr·ovided nmer­gcncy multi-billion dollar res­cue packagPs for troubled eeonomios in Asia and Hussia. 
"We do not see (a relation­ship) between structural lend­ing and an ATM." Mallorh Bl'own said. "We sec it as con­sistent with our mission" to allnviatP pov1wty. "Wn're rnorP liko an annuity or investment fund than a cash eard." 
He also pointed out that $5 b.illion of the $8.2 billion in structural loans went to South Korea as part ol' a record $58 billion IMF rAseue package. 
Malloch Bmwn said he did not expect credit agencies that rate banks' risks to lower their ranking of the World Bank because "we have a rep­utation for prudent finaneing and the transparnncy of our nnancial statements. TIH· markets have no cause for· alarm." 
Tho bank's annual report said lending increased 49.3 percent in fiscal 1998 to a record $28.59 billion. 

Another economy falls victim to Asian crisis 
Associated Press 
WELLINGTON 
New Zealand's economy slumped into reenssion as a result of drought and the pro­longed Asian crisis, according to data released Friday. 
Statistics Now Zealand said those industries with a strong export orientation to Asian mar­kets had been particularly hard hit over the last two quarters. 
Gross domnstic product decreased by 0.8 percent in the June quarter, following a revised contraction of 1.0 per­cent in the March quarter. It was originally reported as minus 0.9 percent. 
A recession is defined as two consecutive quarters of nega­tive growth. Friday's data bad 
b1~nn widely oxpoetod to confirm that drought and a woaknr in tern atio nal ~~co n<nny had tipped the New Zmdand orono­my into recession. 
Tlw neonomy grnw by 1.2 IWr­cent in the yoar to .Junn l <JIJS compared with tlw year .lurw J<J97. This compared with a revised 2.:! pnn:m1t growth in til<' year to Marrh 1998, originally reported at 2.2 percent and expectations of I .4 pnrcent annual growth. 
Gov<H·nnwnt statistician L<m Cook said tho economy was now growing at its slowest annual rate in livo years. 
"Thn fallout from the severe east coast drought and thn slump in /\sian nxport markets has been a downturn in business investment," he said. 

Some university endowments losing money 
Assoriated Press  its July peak of <J.:n7.97.  Coon.  Common Fund, a not-for"prof­ stoeks. Since the stock market  
'Til bet you' II  find  a lot of  Nor does Kansas University,  it investment eompany for  declined  lO pereent in August  
BOSTON  people down 10 percent," said  which had $816.7 million in  schools, colleges and universi­ and the bond market rose only  
The  11JlJOs won!  a  golden  Wayne Coon, chief investment  assets as of June 30, 1998.  ties.  ·  a percent or two, he said. a 10  
~~ra  for university <•ndowment  oFficer for Emory University in  "We tend to be not too awful  "The  nice  thing  is  the  percent decline is pretty stan­ 
l'unds, whic·h grnw to  more  Atlanta. "I don't think that's  eoncerned about short-term  trustees understand these are  dard.  
than $150 billion by tho end of  unusual."  changes in the market.'' said  perpetual investments and  He also noted that the 10  
IIJ<J7.  Emory's $5 billion endow­ John  t  h  e  y  percent drop in  many cases  
Unlil  n~cnnt  sto<~k  market  ment has 60 percHnt of its  shouldn't. be  follows thrtHl years of' eom­ 
gyrations.  that  is.  worried  pound annual returns of 20  
'I'LL BET YOU'LL AND A LOT OF  about short" term volatil­ percent. A study by  thtl  National  
PEOPLE DOWN 10 PERCENT.'  ity,"  said  Association of' CollegE~  and  
Petzel.  University Business Officers  
"They  are  released in February showed  
WAYJ'VB COON  not  getting  the average invnstmont return  
Cl/lEF INVESTMENT OFFICER  too  upset  rate for 498 collegns and uni­ 
Harvard. for exam­ EMORY UNIVBRS11Y  about the 10  versities was 20.4 percent for  
ple. has lost about 10  percent  the year starting July 1. 19%,  
pMeent  of its  $13  billion  assets in Coca-Cola Co. stock  drop."  an increase over the previous  
cndowrnnnt sincn .July 1. Even  - a  gift from the company,  Scarffe, spokesman for the  Endowments - the stocks,  year's return of 17.2 percent.  
for the country's richest uni­ whkh is also based in Atlanta.  Kansas University Endowment  c~tsh,  and real estate that col­ Larry Goldstein, senior vicfl  
vorsity tmdowtn(ll\t fund. $1.3  With tho drop in Coea-Cola  Association.  leges and universities receive  president for NACUBO, said  
billion is a lot to lose.  stock's price, the value of  Most universities and col­ as gifts ~ generate funds for  colleges and universities are  
But it's not surprising. given  Emory's endowment has also  leges, in fact, are not terribly  operating expenses and finan­ familiar with short-torm stock  
that tlw Dow Jones industrial  dedined by about 10 percent.  worried about a  tO percent  cial aid.  market volatility. The  l9R7  
avtll'age, which closed at 8.00l.<J1J Thursday. has fallen  Emory, however, has intention of changing  no its  drop, said Todd Petzel. chief investment officer of the  Petzel said most endowment funds invest between 60 and  drop, he said, was a dramatic hit when it happened.  
rnorP than 1.300 points below  inyostment  strategy.  said  Wostport,  Conn.  based  75 percent of their assets in  "But most schools didn't do  


~-----...~-,__.~----~~ 
The Observer· SPECIAL AD SECTION Friday, September 25, 1998 
--------'­

After the Game. • • 

McKinley Hwy. 
Jefferson Blvd. 
277-7400  
• Breakfast served all day •Lunch •Dinner •Ora snack ANYI1ME  Notre •Dame  
Just Minutes from Campus  

··,  
-~~i.!Jcs  ~.~  
·.;.  ·:·.:· ~~/ ~0' ·. {j ~ .J '[~\~ \·.}, ~ }Q.­ BW-3 Says GOOD-LUCK IRISH!  
L  \ ~  • ;l·];.·w .:.z.. /'~ -~  ~  
"'\ ~e Rea\~-~~~  
Sports Grill & Pub··~.,.,,_  .  
123 W.Washington St.  
Downtown South Bend  

l/2 Block West of College Football Hall of Fame 
Be sure to stop in and check out our crazier than ever 
Specials!! 

I I I I I I
I Bring a friend or a big I I I 1 J
It should be a crime to drink... all for 5 bucks!! appetite for this tough I give something this good I I "Whoa!!" • Joey Lawrence II to beat special I away for free! 
.._ ______...._ _____ ______....
~ 

IExpires 11/4/98 obsmap I 1Expires 11/4/98 obsmap I CExpires ll/4/98 obsmap I 

This display was made possible by the combined efforts of Observer Marketing Managers, Greg Szilier and Gomez, Ad Designers, Jenn Breslow, Brett Huelat, and Jon King, and the Advertising Department. Contact Greg or Steve at 631-6900 for more information. 


\ ..._ l'. t I • • t .. 1 
PRIME RIB • STEAKS 
--===::::::::::J:Qc=====---­
S&WOOD•COCKTMLLOUNGE 
I 6402 North Grape Road 
277-6368 ·.-'''' 

Friday, September 2'i, 199H The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Page 13 
Embassy bomb plot foiled 
A~sm:ioucd Pres~ 
KAMI'AIA Uganda 
Ugandan authoritins an· hold­ing 20 IH'opln in connection with a plot to blow up tlw U.S. l·:mhassy in Kampala, and tlw 1;111 was invitPd into thP J·:ast African nation to lwlp with tlw illVPS tiga ti on. a govP r nnw n t ministl'r said Thursday. 
HPgional roo1wration minister .\mama Mhabazi told a parlia­llll'lltary SI'Ssion that thf' 1:111 agPnts Wl'rP invitPd to Uganda following thP Aug. 7 bombings or tlu• u.s. diplomatic missions in nPighhoring Knnya and Tanzania in which 259 people, including 12 Americans. died. 
"It is truP that the Ugandan govnrnnwnt through S!H~u ri ty s1~rvices asked for and obtained serviens of tlw FBI for expertise on bomb attacks which are beyond our capadty to ha!Hlle," Mbabazi said. 
IIn said Ugandan intl~lligm1ce officials had teamed that the group that carried out the bombings in Nairobi and Dares Salaam also planned to att<u:k tlw U.S. limbassy in Uganda. 
Anwrican intdligenn~ oflieers also lwlped thwart tlw plot, The Washington Post reported in Friday's editions. Ugandan authorities W!~re aided by infor­mation from the CIA. 
Among those detained are the two alleged ringleaders, arrest­ed last week as they tried to enter the country from Kenya. The two men are bnlieved to be associates of Islamic extremist Osama bin Laden, the suspect­ed mastermind in the bombings of U.S. embassies last month, the Post said. 
Over the wnekend, sncurity ofl'ieials said 18 people had b11en arrested in connection with plans to hit American and Ugandan targets in the country. 
Win A Trip For 2 
to the 

ND vs. Arizona State Game 
Includes: Airfare, Hotel, Car Rental, and Game Tickets Sign up at the 
Logan Center 
1235 N. Eddy St., at the corner of Angela, Juniper, and Eddy­South of Stadium September 26th 8:00AM-I :30PM Special Bonus: 
The first I00 people to sign up can receive their choice of: 
Notrl' Dame Hat valued at $19.95 for only $7. 95 (or) ND Sweatshirt valued at $49.95 for only $19. 95 
(Limit one item per family) 

Iran backs off Rushdie reward 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Iran's government distanced itself Thursday from a $2.5 million reward for the death of Salman Hushdie, a movo interpreted by the author as meaning an end to 10 years of living in the shadows. 
The Iranian ''government disassociates itself from any reward whlch has been offered in this regard and does not support it,"' Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said after a meeting with his British counterpart, Robin Cook. 
While the religlotlS decree that called on Muslims to kill Rushdie was not lifted, Rushdie said Kharrazi's state· ment "means everything." 
"This looks like it's over," he said in London. 
"An extraordinary thing has been achieved," Rushdie said, speaking outside the Foreign Ofl1ce where he was briefed on the development that came out of British talks with Iran at the United Nations in New York. 
Rushdie was forced into hid­ing, spending much of his tim~~ under guard in Britain, after the death sentence was imposed. Western intellectu­als took up his cause as an important battle over freedom of expression. 
Cook said he was delighted with Iran's gesture, and said both nation's were ready to exchange ambassadors. 
Publication of Rushdie's 'The Satanic Verses'" in 1988 caused an uproar among many Muslims around the world, who contended that it insulted Islam. 
Months before he died of cancer. Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini issued a "fatwa," or Islamic edict, call­ing on Muslims to kill the Indian-born British writer. 
Shortly after, Iran's semi­official Khordad Foundation offered a large reward to any-· one who killed Hushdie. A f'ew years ago, it increased the bounty to $2.5 million. 
Kharrazi's comm(~nts stopped short of lifting Iran's death sentence on Hushdie, but was an important step in improving ties with tho West. 
The gesturo contains little that is· new, however. The l.ranian government has nover off1cially backed the reward, and in recent years has even given assurances that it would not actively seek Hushdie's death. 
The Hushdie affair has been the main hurdle in Iran's efforts to improve ties with the European Union. Britain has sought better ties in order to benefit from lucrative pro­jects in Iran, which have gone to France and other European countries that have better ties with Tehran. 
Iran has been trying to change its foreign policy over since Mohammad Khatami, a moderate cleric, took over as president in August 1997. Khatami has underscored the need to replace confrontation with dialogue in Iran's rela­tions with the West, including the United States. 
On Tuesday, Khatami told reporters that his govtmmwnt wanted to put the Rushdie affair behind it. 
But powerful hard-lintll'S inside tho Islamic government have always supported the death sentence and are likely to continue to do so. 
Seven months ago, the head of the foundation that is ofTer­ing the reward said lw was considering upping the boun­ty. especially if ltushdie were killed in the Unit(~d States. 
Iran's chief prosecutor, Morteza Moqtadaie, marked the last anniversary of the fatwa in February by saying: ''The shedding of this man's blood is obligato1·y." 
"The destruction of this man's worthless life could breathe new life into Islam," stahl-run Tnhran radio said at the time. 



! 
VIEWPOINT 
page 14 os~fRvER -----------------Friday, September 25, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAM I·. 0FI'ICE: 1'.0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 63 I-747I SAINT MARY's O!'FICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEf He:uher Cock~ 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGl-:R Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Headter MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR .... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Liull An DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Huei;H SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS...... .. ....... Sarah Dylag CONTROtU:R ... ............................... Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ...............Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... I'ete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR . . ................ Kevin Dalum 
The Dh!<.erver i~ the mdr.:pcndl'nl ncwspJper published by rhc :.tudcnts of rlu: Univr.:rsiry ofNmre DJmc du Lie Jnd Saint Mary's College:. It lloc1. nut nt'CC!.!.<trily rdlect the policil'S of clw aJministr:nion of eithl•r instiiUtion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively ;IS possible. Unsigned cditnriab reprc1oent the opinion of the majoriry of the F.Jiwr-in-Chicf. MJnag1ng Editor, A<>.<>istanc Managing Editor and departmcm editors. Commentaries, lcners and column.\ present rhc: vu:w~ of du: author~. and nor necessarily tho.'>c: ofThe: Observer. Vicwpoim space i~ available wall member~ of the Now: l )a me/Saint Mary's community JnJ ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lerrcrs 1s t'ncnur.Jgcd. 
Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chiet 631-4542 Busines. Office 63I-53U Managing Ediwr/Ao;~istam ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Sccne//Sa~nt Mary\ 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I@nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/Generallntormation 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l cmnd.edu 

• EDTIORIAL 

To the Administration: Thanks for Nothing! 
To the administrator credited with 6fclubs with only two members.) You really outdid yourself! Center" will be sure to give Notre moving the campus media to South Examining the facts and figures We also want to commend the way Dame a lift in the polls. Dining Hall: showcases your razor-sharp logic. in which the move progressed. It's It's a pleasure to know that your 
The Observer's 200 staff members great that the project somehow got department, which in theory furthers 
The Observer editorial board, on used 314 LaFortune to its fullest-at underway long before the student student needs, actually promotes behalf of its entire staff. wishes to least 20 of 24 hours per day, five days media staffs those of express its gratitude for your part in per week. On the other two days, we -those administra­relegating us, the only daily source of managed to spend a total of at least immediately tors instead. campus news at Notre Dame and 12 hours up there as well. But you're affected­So to you
N
OW THE ADMINISTRATION CAN PRE­
Saint Mary's, to a cellar office cut off right -it's definitely best that a cen­could even ' and those from half of the student body. trally located offiee be closed, locked raise an TEND THAT STUDENT MEDIA DON'T above you, You are a genius! and dark after 6 p.m. each week day, objection. By The Observer 
EXIST AT ALL, BUT WHEN IT'S TIME FOR
Thanks to your tireless efforts. The and it's better still the office is used the time we offers its Observer's relocation from LaFortune by fewer people. Even people who understood THE NATIONAL MAGAZINE RANKINGS, THE most glowing Student Center not only fails to meet inhabit the space admit it's used the urgency thanks. We
PHRASE "STUDENT MEDIA CENTER" WILL 
our needs. but ultimately advances sparsely, at best. of the situa­wish you the your personal "needs" further than Never mind that neither you nor tion and BE SURE TO GIVE NOTRE DAME A LIFf IN best of luck those of the students you purport to your cohorts offered one good reason spoke out, the THE POLIS. in your new, serve. why our departure from the center of proverbial larger per­
We appreciate your foresight in cre­campus is for the greater good of the ball was sonal oflico, ating an ol1ice that's totally out-of­student body. allegedly which clearly the-way for more than half of our Indeed, how outrageous for us to rolling too fast to stop it. meets students needs better than cen­readership. No longer are we plagued assume that you need legitimate Talk about efficiency! trally located media or social space with students and faculty stopping by motives at all! (Speaking of efficiency, we have so ever could. on a whim with questions, complaints It's a good thing that you did not much fun with our new ID-swipe Bravo! or story ideas decide to use access into South Dining Hall. Here to actually help our centrally we are six weeks into theyear, and it Sincerely, us serve them located former doesn't even work yetf And the better. office to create women's room is filthy and unfin­The Observer Editorial Board
T
HANKS TO YOUR TIRELESS EFFORTS,
We love 24-hour soeial ished, and although the chairs just those tiny club THE OBSERVER'S RELOCATION space-after arrived, our conference table is M.I.A. P.S. -What refreshing fun it was to cubicles that all. that would -but who's counting.) find a broken pipe unloading putrid, 
FROM THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT
replaced us on have been far But really, forcing a move upon the 200-degree waste water (from the the third floor CENTER NOT ONLY FAllS TO MEET OUR too convenient campus media without paying heed to stir-fry machine) onto our Sports desk of LaFortune. for students their concerns, or even giving them -twice!! Granted, the repairman
NEEDS, BUT ULTIMATELY ADVANCES
They will cer· from every input into where their new offices said moving the media to South tainly do won­YOUR PERSONAL NEEDS. corner of cam· might be, was a great idea. Hiding Dining Hall was "the stupidest thing ders for keep­pus. No, you these organizations in a basement they [the administration] have ever ing students thought ahead was another subtly brilliant touch. done," but we have to disagree.informed about and put Now the administration has the best It's a true stroke of genius to put an 
the issues being discussed by student Reekers in South Dining Hall also, of both worlds-for most of the year, office full of expensive, hi-tech com­government one floor below, especial­thereby eliminating the chance that it can pretend that student media puter equipment directly underneath ly those split-second decisions made those unimportant North and Mod don't exist at all, but when it's time a network of pipes just waiting to just before the paper goes to print. Quad residents would crowd the for the U.S. News & World Report burst! (And they'll be fantastic for meetings ~atery late at night. rankings, the phrase "Student Media 
• DOONL:.~)I RY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THi DAY 


VIEWPOINT 
THE friday, September 25, 1998 page 15
OBSERVER 

• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Women's News Needs to Educate and Inform 
Thn absurdity that grentod readors upon opnning their Obs1~rver on Wl)d., Snptnmber 16 should nnvor hn rnpt)ated. 
Tlwn~ is nothing quito so backwards and horrilic as a Wonwn 's Nnws snction of a newspaper choos­ing to featurn thren articles on beauty pagnants. II. nPWSJHqwr dassifiration intended for Women's Nmvs should want to n~port news that is promo­tional, informative and bonelkial to womnn, and not rwws that is inconsequential or detrinwntal. Tlw word "tiara" has no placn in thn Womnn's Nnws ol' any newspapor. I would think that, partic­ularly at Notro Damn. a Women's News depart­nwnt would want to lw vnr·y careful about the atti­tudPs and nwssages it r.hooses to convey. In far.t, it is difficult to ontirely justify having a Women's pagn bncause it implies that women's news is something snparate, sonwthing out of the ordinary, and to singlo out doi)S not nqualize. 
ll.t NotrP l>anw, wn have issues with gender rela­tions, so rn uch in pageants, or to critique the writers of the Women's News. The fact that the articles appeared, making a gross contradiction of Women's News, is a dis­turbing hint that students might be perfectly obliv­ious to the problems with the gender roles encour­aged by this society and on this campus. 
It may be tempting, but one can't place all the blanw on the University for separating us like chil­dren at a summer camp. If women and men at NO are allowed to coexist in outdated roles, it is pri­marily because we, the female students, are the quiet ones. We are the ones who would let beauty pageant artieles be published. We are the ones who seldom visit the Women's Resource Center. 
My main concern is the r.omplacency surround­ing the accepted unhealthy attitudes towards gen­ders at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. We are not questioning enough, we are not using our voices, we arc chanting in unison with the crowd. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, especial­
ly women, should not 
l'act, that the II PC let themselves be l'nP!s tlw rwnd to taken in by the gen­organizn a ((;nndnr) der dictation, the "lntPrar.tion Wnnk" accepted social whnn) studnnts can behavior or the cus­lu• rnwardnd l'or toms of Notre Dame showing an ability to campus life. Notre sodaliw with tho Dame and Saint opposiln sox. In a Mary's women, I sug­
prnvious artid1~. this gest we first try to 
sanw newspaper change the ways we rnporwd that women hinder ourselves, arn not yot in as and to illustrate how many promirwnt we hinder ourselves, hmdm·ship rolns on I'll have to general­
campus. II' anything, ize terribly. Womt)n's News This standpoint is 
should mlucate and not about thrusting inform in order to anger towards men rovnrsn thosn admit­or even taking up tndly maln-dominat­feminist beliefs. It is 
nd patlf)rns on cam­simply about being pus. more aware, three­
Tho frustrating dimensional people. part is that thorn are When Women's News numer·ous other cur­tries to pass off nmt topics and beauty pageants as nvents, on-campus credible news, there or lwyond, that needs to be an out­rould be reported if cry! We need to be onn insists on having louder about our a section of Women's opinions! We need to Nnws. II' our newspa­listen to less Celine pnr is not awarn of Dion, and more Ani liWSI) happnnings, DiFranco. We need an~ wn, tlw studPnts, to throw out our awan• of tlwm? "bar-pants." We 
II. rnporl could need to go to more havn covorml thn women's basketball (;PtHII'r Studins games. Saint Mary's Forum !wing pre­students need to say snntnd by Margaret so when they are l'orll~r at ll1~sburgh offended by the label l.ihrary on "SMC Chicks." We S1~ptnmbnr 17./\.n need to visit the intnrvinw could have Women's Hesource lwnn donn with Center, not because Marisa Marquez we are ultra-femi­about Hispanic nists or because we lll~ritagn Month, and have any particular lwr IIHtdnrship as thn problems, but simply 
pl'l~sidnnt of La ll.lianza. It would be interesting to have the per­spnctivn of fmnale members of HOTC. It might be appropriate to have been informed on what is new and changing about women's roles in the Catholic Church. 
1'1~rhaps, in national news, a story could be done on NOW's Initiative To Stop Sexual Harassment. No, instead, Womnn's News tells us that Miss ll.mnri1:a airs Saturday on ABC. Thnre should be no question that beauty pageants are a retrogressive isstw! If this socinty wants to get away from judg­ing women by their beauty, then it will stop having lwauty contests. ll.t most, these articles weakly attmnptnd to bn objective about beauty pageants. llowever, simply asking "ll.re pageants degrading to wornnn'?" in the same article that praises pageants as a platform for women's educational and professional opportunities, does not present a masonabln viewpoint! 
Whether the answer to that question is "yes" is not my main concern. Neither is it my intention to discredit women who have participated in 
to find out what is there. We need to recognize that the format of most Freshman Orientation Activities encourages college-age men and women to have junior high­level attitudes. We need to boycott SYRs on the grounds that they are detrimental to gender rela­tions. We need to show that we can stay in our physics classes and we need to speak up more ol'ten in Core discussions! The glass "girl box" needs to be shattered! We need to say that twenty­six years is an ample amount of time to be ready for a female president! 
Until we change ourselves, our own accepted behavior and attitudes, there will be no improve­ments in our newspapers, on our campus or in this society. Only then will the absurdity that greeted readers of The Observer on Wed., September 16 never be repeated. 
Rene Mulligan Sophomore Pasquerilla West .~cptell\b~r 18, 1998 
Pacifist Priests Wasting Their Own Time and Efforts 
I read The Observer column by a student praising the exploits of two priests who are urging a campus protest against HOTC. The author is clearly enamored by the pouring of blood, and hammering, on an air­plane in quest of peace on earth. 
The priests were also pictured in the South Bend Tribune laughing and holding a banner. They were obviously having a real hoot, enjoying the publicity and quite proud of breaking laws, wasting nine years in jail, and eagerly awaiting more time behind bars. 
Every Diocese in the world desperately needs Priests. The Vietnam War is over. Our world is at rela­tive peace. Wouldn't these priests be more productive seriously ministering to people in 1998 rather than romping around the nation and r.avorting back to 1968? 
Brian Regan 
Notre Dame '61 
September 18, 1998 

Abortion Should Be Discussed, Not Censured 
In recent weeks The Observer has reported that 
the Women's Resource Center was placed on proha· 
tion for providing information concorning "activities 
contrary to the moral teachings of the Catholic 
Church," i.e., they carried information about abor­
tion and birth control services in the area. In subso­
quent oditions, The Observer reported on the HOTC 
unit on campus. 

Now one can argue that a university is supposed to provide information on all of the many sides of human thinking and activities. From that standpoint, the censure of the Center is contrary to the purposes of a university. oven a Catholic one. 
It is true that the University Library, as well as the local phone books, contain some of the information under censure at the Center. The probation is absurd. 
But further. one would have to say that many of the activities of the military, for which ROTC is a feeder system, are "contrary to the moral teachings of the Catholic Church," i.e., ROTC does not train its students to avoid all but just wars. 
Abortion is women's "just war." The topic should be debated and discussed at an institution of higher learning, not censured. 

Ellyn Stecker 
Parent ofa Double Domer 
Stpte~nb(r 16, 1998 



-----~--~-----~~---·-___,.------­
w 
CCJl@ D 
O THE 
page 16 -------------BSERVER --------Friday, September 25, 1998 

Hail Purdue 
To your call once more we rally, Alma Mater, hear your praise; Where the Wabash spreads its valley, Filled with joy our voices raise. From the skies in swelling echoes Come the cheers that tell the tale Of your vic'tries and your heroes, 
. Hail Purdue! We sing all hail! 
Hail, Hail to Old Purdue! All hail to our old gold and black! Hail, Hail to Old Purdue! Our friendship may she never lack, Ever grateful, ever true, Thus we raise our song anew, Of the days we've spent with you All hail our own Purdue. 
A Quick Look at Purdue 
:Location: West Lafayette, Ind. :Founded: 1869 .Enrollment: 35,000 ;President: Dr. Steven C. Deering Athletic Director: Morgan J. ·Burke 
Nickname: Boilermakers :Colors: Old Gold and Black :_Song: ''Hail Purdue'' :Mascot: -Boilermaker Special rConference: Big '{~ll 
·-· --­

• ·~ _,_ h :·/j<lr,f.~ ,' ~,, . ·.· ..·,·,;;;:;i<;~.::··· "</" 


• j •. 


I 


rdue 1998 
Special to The Observer 
Local students from the World Academy of Irish Dancing, which offers classes in South Bend and Valparaiso, have hnen select­
•~d by the University of Notre Damn to perform during the half-time show of the Notre l>ame-l'urdue gamo on Saturday, Sept. 2C1. The Band of the J.'ighting Irish will pro­vidn thn half-time music whiln local World Academy dan('.ers will hn featured in a cnl<'hration of Irish dan('.P and culturn. 
Performing at half-timo of a football game is unique and unprecedented for an Irish-dancing school. The dancers will perform to a sdnction of music featuring highlights from the popular musical "Hiverdance". The 
w 
cell@ D 
OTHE

Friday, September 25, 1998 -------------------page 17
BSERVER 





performance will incorporate a variety of traditional Irish "ceili" dances, or dances that arc regarded as official dances of ln~land. Twenty­f'ivn students will take the field at the 50-yard line ranging in age from seven to 
17. Lead by artistic director and 1994 Saint Mary's Colloge graduate Julie Showaltor, the dancers will have an audience of more than 80,000 people in addi­tion to tho TV viewing audi­ence. 
Local students from South Bend pnrforming at half-time include: Mary Brigid llalloran, Meredith Nolan, Tara Ladewski, Mary I.adewski and Cathlin Brien. Notro Dame students include Caitlin Allen, Cathleen Jordan and lleathor Donovan. TIHl three Notre 

vs. 

UP 
IN THE PAST 

Series Record: 
Notre Dame leads 45 ...22... 2 
Games in West Lafayette: 
Notre Dame leads 22... 1o...2 
Games in South Bend: 
Notre Dame leads 19"'9 
Last Purdue win: 1997 (z8,.I7 at West Lafayette) 
Last Notre Dame win: 1996 (35"'0 at South Bend) 
The Fighting Irish and Boilermakers have met every year since I 946, with this weekend marking the 53rd consecutive season match up. 
Dame students will continuo to dance with their "home" schools, but will join World Academy on the field for the performance. Allen recently retired from the Riverdance troupe so that she may pur­
sue  her  studies  at  Notre  
Dame.  
Ilalloran,  10,  is  a  St.  

Joseph's Grade School stu­dent and has danced with World Academy for almost five years. 
"Irish dancing is interest­ing and unique. I like to dance and show people what Irish culture is about," she said. 
Halloran is especially excited to perform in Notre Dame stadium. "It's cool that we get to dance with tho Notre dame band," she said. "I'm looking forward to dancing in front of so many 
people." 
Her brother, Brendan Halloran, is a freshman trumpet player in the Notre Dame Marching Band this year. 
Showalter, tho school's founder, opened her first school in 1994. Since then the academy has grown to more than 350 students in five locations -South Bend, Valparaiso, Chicago, Western Springs and Lemont, Ill. 
Showalter, a world champi­on, believes strongly in per­sonal attention for each stu­dent in her school and trav­els to tho various locations for each class. 
Irish dancing students don't have recitals, but instead perform at various events for the public throughout the year. The World Academy of Irish 
Dancing has had the honor of performing at a Notre Dame women's basketball game, the University Coaches' Dinner, the South Bend Ethnic festival, Chicago's St. Patrick's Day parade and the South Side Irish parade. 
What began as an ethnic dance has evolved into a broader artistic-athletic dance form. Although rooted in the Irish-American com­munity, the sueeess of Hiverdancn has brought tho fancy footwork and porcus­sive hardshon danees into the mainstream. 
Por more information about tho World Academy of Irish Dancing, contact Julie Showalter at (630) 789-1128. 
Article courtesy of Colleen Hagen, GRPR Public Relations. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 25, 1998 

HR Ball: Keep it or throw it back? 

NOTICES 

THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midmght Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midmght When you need cop1es, we're open! 
Early Spring Break Spec1als!Bahamas Party CrUise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most mealsl Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Flonda!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Pa,rt1es $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen, 7 Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!1998 BBB Award Winner!springbreaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
"OWN A BMW" Earn $$ While you Learn 247-0736 
WANTED 

ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... 
"TAKE 2" 

2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 
SALES and ... EARN $$$$. 
Jamalca.Cancun.Bahamas,Fiorida, 
Padre!Lowest prices! Free 
Meals,Part1es & Drinks. 
··umited Offer-·. 1800-426­
771 0/www .sunsplashtours.com 
I'm looking for 2 "lnsh Comfort" t­shirts for me and my dad. If you sell them or have a few extra, please help me out. Call Michelle at 4­0562. 
MYSTERY SHOPPERS WANTED 
You Dine.. .We Pay Professional restaurant experience a must. Why not enjoy a meal out on us?Call PDB Management 1-888-7 43-7999 
NANNY FOR WEEKDAY AFTER­NOONS NEEDED TO WATCH BOY & INFANT GIRL IN GRANGER 277-9969. 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily marned ND Alumm cou­ple, with adopted 3 year old daugh­ter, wants to shower a new baby w1th love.Art1st1C full-t1me mom,ath­letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with Friends on the swingset, trips to the zoo,grandma, play groups,lulla­bles,too.This IS a home where wish­es come true.We'd like to call to get to know you.Call Shawn & Meg 800-767­4257 Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. 
Babys1tter for 6 mo. old boy, twice/wk. approx. 9-noon or 3-6 pm. Close to campus. Contact Prof. Rob Easley 1-6077, reasley@nd.edu 
MOLLY MCGUIRE'S COFFEE HOUSE is now hiring.Opens in 2 wks.Ask for Karen. 
P.S. The black goo is gone! 
FOR RENT I 

'--------------1. 
1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space ava1lable for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with pnvate baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800­418-9487. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 1nfo: http://Bus1ness.michiana.org/bnbreg 219-291-7153. 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HISTORIC INN,FULL ELEGANT BREAK­FASTS.4 GUEST ROOMS,A/C,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.$99.00 Call616-695­6321 
3,4,5 Bdrm Homes. 2 Blks From Campus. 240-0322 
RENT ROOMS 237-1919 
5 rooms for rent football 

weekends, located 2 miles off cam­
pus.277-8340 

Lg 2BR apt, 4 blks from ND. $475/ 
mo. 234-8017. 

I FORSALE 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS 
198 MIN. $20 
CALL 258-4805 

TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
FOOTBALL TICKETS 
271-9412 

TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Ftbl. !IX BUY-SELL 674-7645 
ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Need LSU tix 289-2918 
Always buying and selling N D foot­ball t1ckets. 289-8048 
I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby broth­er and his friend (a prospective). If you can help me, please call 4­0562. Ask for Michelle. 
I Need ASU TIX 
243-2934 
BUYING N.D. TICKETS """'""'" ALL GAMES... 277-1659 
FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS ALL GAMES 272-7233 .......... . 
WANTED! 
Purdue Ticket 
4-1067 
Need 1 Stanford tic. x0759 
Need 4 Stanford tix. call kev@ 4.0673 
Have 2 LSU hx,willtrade for 2 STANFORD.277-8340 
HELP!! I need TWO tickets to the STANFORD game. Call me (Amy) a\243-0247. 
Need 2 Purdue GA's. Call Pat @ 4­0680 
Need 1 or 2 Stanford tix! PLEASE! Call Bridget @ 634-0550 
I have 2 pair of purdue tickets. selling at $50/ticket. Need tickets? 4-4221; Peter 
Need 1 Purdue tic. 243-5386 
Do you have BC tix? Would you like to sell them? If so, call Tim at 634-4859. 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FASTI!! Sending & Receiving at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Happy Birthday Capt. Freeman! Here's your day to be all you can be (But lay off those wine coolers) Love Nic, Cass and the rest of the gang WELCOME FRESHMAN KATIE BARKLEY 
$6 Haircuts VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 Lincolnway West Closed Sun & Wed 
M-T-Th-Fr-8-4 Sat8-3 

Need fall break nde to RI/MA/CT-will spl1l $ & driving. Cam1lle x-2518 
Need a babysitter dunng the games? Call 
SHANNON @ 284-4451 

NOTRE DAME COLLECTIBLES 
Sale & Auction Oct. 23 -11 am -11 pm 
LOGAN CENTER 
1235 Eddy & Angela 
For Info, call257-0039 

So, does anyone else feel like ham and cheese? 
Hey, even though you are a pain ...... l still love ya B. Thanks for the lunch today ...... 
Geoff, I haven't forgotten you. I'm coming to South Bend and I will find you. B1lly Boilermaker 
I hate B1lly Boilermaker 
Hey Beeeeeeeeeeeeeerdak! 

Head for the mountains on your 
21st babe! 

Hey Kt Ryan, you better keep up 
with the Beerdak, or else! 

SBL is not very imaginative tonight so she will just have to deal with this classified. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 25, 1998 
~~----------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~--------------------------­

Tyson fighting to get back into ring after assault 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 

The two top members of the Nevada Athletic Commission said Thursday they will vote to reject Mike Tyson's request to return to the ring unless he can explain his alleged assault of two men following a traffic accident in Maryland last month. 
Claims by Tyson's lawyers that he is innocent of the charges simply aren't good enough if Tyson wants his license back, commission Chairman Dr. Elias Ghanem and Vice Chairman James Nave said. 
"I would vote no if I have to vote today," Ghanem said. 
Nave agreed, saying the posi­tion of Tyson's lawyers that he couldn't discuss the matter because of pending charges gave him little option in his vote. 
"It's not going to work for me," Nave said. "How can we license him without knowing about it?" 
The Maryland issue had seemed to fade into the back­ground at Saturday's marathon hearing that ended 
-
when the commission ordered Tyson to take a batter of psy­chological tests before return­ing Oct. 3 for a vote on whether to give him the license stripped when he bit Evander Holyfield's ears. 
Following the meeting, Ghanem said that if the psy­chological reports came back OK "then we have the respon­sibility to maybe, probably, license him to fight again." 
Tyson agreed to the psycho­logical tests and traveled to Boston to undergo them Thursday at Massachusetts General Hospital. But even as he was being examined by a team of three psychiatrists, his licensing was again thrown into question. 
Tyson's adviser, Shelly Finkel, said both he and Tyson's lawyers had thought that the psychological testing was the only issue still to be resolved. 
"It's pretty obvious to me that it's different than when we left (the commission hear­ing)," Finkel said. "It's differ­ent than what we were told." 
Nave, though, said the Maryland incident was still on the table, and that commis­sinners thought that it went to the heart of Tyson's problems with anger management. 
During Saturday's hearing, Tyson's attorney, Dale Kinsella, told commissioners that the former heavyweight champion would answer no questions about the Maryland incident because charges were still pending in the state. 
Tyson is charged by two men with attacking them following a minor traffic accident in the Washington, D.C., suburb of Gaithersburg, Md. A prelimi­nary hearing on the charges had been set for Oct. 2, a day before the commission hear­ing, but that has been scrapped and the case will head toward trial at a later date instead. 
"I can't vote to move this thing forward without knowing more about Maryland," Nave said. "They can get a report from Massachusetts saying he's OK, but we still have to know about Maryland." 
Finkel said he would have to discuss the latest development with Tyson's attorneys. He said Tyson should be judged inno­cent until proven guilty. 
"! think what the commission is asking for is illegal," Finkel said. "It seems to me as if someone is playing a game." 
Nave said the commission can't license Tyson without knowing whether he actually attacked the two men. Tyson's attorneys have said he is inno­cent. 
"At some point they're going to have to realize that they have to answer that situation," Nave said. "This commission is not going to be embarrassed and approV!~ him to f'ight and find out a month later hn hit and kicked somPbody." 
Nave said he felt Tyson's advisers did not adequately answer many of the commis­sion's concerns during Saturday's hearing and that he would have votnd against Tyson then if it had eome to a vot!·!. 
"If the votn eamn to yns or no last Saturday. I would have voted no," hP said. 


BIG WEEKEND FOR 
IRISH SOCCER 
16th MEN'S SOCCER
WOMEN'S SOCCER
-
vs.

The Keybank Classic 
11th St. John's Irish vs. Indiana Friday Sept. 25 7:30pm 

8 

Saturday Sept. 26 7:30pm
Irish vs. Wake Forest Sunday Sept. 27 1:OOpm 
~---~-­
r----------.--~~..------~-----------~--------~---------.-------~--------­
Friday, Seprember 25, 1998
-iiiiiiiiiiiiii­
~Trivia 

() 7 ft TV Screens () SeMinA for Over 300 
r:J Extra LarAC Booths 
o Mouth WatcrinA v~aricty of Sandwiches and Entrees 
fr~~~n t;l1-e 
•••j~Qutt;7 W1Yi1\'T(~ 
27-SPOR.T 
PIZZA, BURGERS, APPETIZERS & MORE! 
The Observer· SPECIAL AD SECTION 
Q Homemade SonJIH 
&nreads a Appetizers a Sah1ds Q Sandwiches 
and PASTA 
NFL 
nCKET 

FOB SUNDAY 
No matter where you're from, we'll be showing your team 
-
Bar Open for Lunch Friday, Saturday, & Sunday 11:30 "Walking Distance from Campus" 

Chinese -American Restaurant 
and Cocktail Loune:e 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin 
eLunches starting at ....$4.25 
•Dinners 
starting at ....$5.95 

•
Banquet rooms available up to 200 


Sunday Buffet-Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children Quick and Easy Set Menu for Football Weekends!! 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 11 :OOam -3:OOpm 
(219) 272-7376 •130 Dixie Way N., South Bend• FAX 272-7425 (next to Howard Johnson) • Call For Reservations 
GO NDI BEAT PURDUE 
Ask about our... 
(.· 

~FREE EXTRAS~ 
• 
Po!llnncsan Cheese Crust • Garilc Butter Crust 

• 
Extra Plna Sauce • Side Of Banana Peppers -JUit AUc-


I·FREE DRIVERY ON CAMPUS* I 
NOTRE DAME AREA 
243-1111 
S.R. 
23 (East of Ironwood) 


co..-Necesury PI• Dellftry & Tax Where Apphcable Not Vahd With Any Othltf Otter LIMITED TIME OFFER  
- 
ST. MARrS AREA 52750 U.S. 33 N. (BBIWBBD Clavaland &Dardan Rd.) 243-1122  ...  
...  

-
...plus our Daily lunch specials, 4 big TV screens, and multiple dart boards! 
I
I I I 
w 
~----~--------------------------~------------------------------------------------~--~~--~------------­
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 25, I 998 

Indianapolis pass rush hurting 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Tlw Indianapolis Colts. tlw only NFL team in the without a sal\, might face the New Orleans Saints without their top two pass-ruslwrs. 
Right defensivf~ end Dan Footman is out with a knee injury that might require arthroscopic surgery. And left end AI Fontenot is hobbled with a calf problem suffered in Indianapolis' 44-6 loss at the New York Jets. 
Fontenot is listed as ques­tionable for Sunday's game at the HCA Dome. But Colts coach Jim Mora downgraded Fontenot to doubtful Thursday. 
"We just have to adjust." Mora said. "We've got guys who can play end .... There are things we can do, and things we're going to have to do." 
The Colts will likely stat·t converted linebacker Bertran.\ Berry to replace Footman. who led the team in sacks a year ago with 10 112. 
If Berry gets the assignment, he will be matched against New Orleans' four-time Pro Bowl left tackle William Roaf. 
Six years ago, Mora, then the Saints' coach. drafted Roaf. 
"They've got a guy at left tackle that always has been a great football phyer," Mora said. "Willie Hoaf is playing as well now as I've ever seen an offensive lineman play. I mean 
-
that sincerely. 
"You don't see many people dominate people in this league, but he is. We might have to line up about five guys over there. I'm very concerned about it." 
Berry, a second-year player, started one game as a rookie. 
"It's going to lw a great chal­lenge," said Berry. who has five tackles this season. ''I'm definitely going to get a chance to see where I stand as far as some of the NFL's elite are concerned. This is what you play for." 
Footman, a former Florida State standout. has spent the last two days getting his knee examined by doctors in Tallahassee. Mora said arthro­scopic surgery is likely, which
-
could keep Footman out at least two weeks. With Fontenot ailing, the Colts are considering using either Van Tuinei or Kendel Shello at left end. Tuinei was signed a week ago, and Shello missed the opening three games with a sprained ankle. 
• Secure Access to Your• FREE Stock Quotes Accounts
Relive the 

• Compatible with Quicken or • First 3 months of Electronic Bill Microsoft Money Payment Service FREE
memories! 

Also, ask about our special CAT (Computer And Technology) loan. Full compatibility with the University
,. 
ofNotre Dame Network (Just plug in and go!)
Classic Irish Games from 1970's & 80's on VHS Video. 

Douglas Road Office Granger Express Office 
P~ NOTRE DAME
19033 Douglas Rd I 2980 State Road 23

P.O. BoK 7878 Suite F
Complete Network 

~.1 FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
Notre Dame, IN 46556 Granger, IN 46530

-
(219) 239-6611 
Broadcasts, Most of 

For People. Not For Profit. 
(219) 239-9351 (800) 522-66 I 1 

e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org
Excellent Quality. 

Edison Road Office Ireland Road Office Saint Joseph's Medical Center Mill Street Office Saint Mary's Campus I 11 West Edison Rd 2102 East Ireland Rd 801 East LaSalle St 125 Mill St The Center Building Mishawaka, IN 46545 South Bend, IN 46614 South Bend, IN 4661 7 Mishawaka, IN 46544 Notre Dame, IN 46556
Call Tom 

(219) 254-4400 (219) 299-2220 (219) 237-7288 (219) 256-236 I (219) 284-4614 
at 410-309-0395; 

Portage Road Office 3457 Portage Road South Bend, IN 46628 (219) 277-8959 
danyluk@erols.com 
Independent of the University 



~--~-------~-----­
~--------..----------~---------,.~------­page 24 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 25, 1998 
• COLLEGE fO(HBAU 
Hurricane Georges wreaks havoc on Florida sports teams 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Even before Hurricane Georges reached South Florida, the storm took a toll on the sports schedule, includ­ing Saturday's football game between third-ranked UCLA and the Miami Hurricanes. 
The schools decided Thursday to postpone the game. Miami officials initially said the game would not be 
rescheduled, but UCLA coach Bob Toledo said it might be played at the end of the sea­son. 
"That decision will be made in the next few days, I'm sure," Toledo said. "If we're in position to be a national championship contender, this game may have implications." 
Thursday night's baseball game between the Florida Marlins and Philadelphia Phillies was postponed and 


Nate Brooks and the Miami Hurricanes were forced to postpone this weekend's contest against UCLA because of Hurricane Georges. 
Smith, 'Cats 
knock off 
SDSU, 35-16 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

Just one Arizona quarterback would have been too much for San Diego State. 
Keith Smith, again getting the start in Arizona's two-quarter­back system, had touchdown scrambles of 20 and 30 yards and threw a 19-yard touchdown pass to Jeremy McDaniel as the No. 16 Wildcats beat the Aztecs 35-16 Thursday night. 
Ortege Jenkins, who played the second and third quarters, led the Wildcats on two scoring drives and threw a 1 0-yard TD pass to McDaniel. 
Smith was 10-of-16 for 121 yards, and Jenkins 6-of-9 for 75 yards. Smith also gained 41 yards on five rushes. 
San Diego State sophomore Brian Russell made his first Division I-A start and had three passes intercepted, two inside Aztecs territory by inside line­backer Scooter Sprotte. San Diego State had six turnovers, leading to three Arizona touch­downs. 
Running back Larry Ned car­ried 33 times for 144 yards and one score against a defense that had allowed only 181 rushing yards and no touchdowns to three previous opponents. 
Smith's 19-yard TD pass to McDaniel with 7:11 left in the first quarter came one play after Dennis Northcutt's 51­yard punt return. Chris McAlister's block took out two Aztecs to help spring Northcutt. 
Jenkins took over on Arizona's next possession and his scrambling ability made it look like the Wildcats were toy­ing with the Aztecs. 
ERASMUS BOOKS
.. •Used books bought and sold 
•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219} 232-8444 


rescheduled as part of a dou­got to remember this is a Hurricanes athletic director bleheader Saturday. Friday's game." Paul Dee said. program at Calder Race CBS, which had been sched­Miami president Edward Course was canceled, and uled to broadcast the game, Foote, UCLA chancellor AI many high school events were will fill the time with local pro­Carnesale and both athletic postponed. gramming. directors were involved in the 
The Miami Dolphins have no "While it is extremely disap­deeision. game this week. Coach Jimmy pointing that we will be unable "After a general discussion Johnson canceled Friday's to play this game, the impor­... regarding the safety of stu­practice, and many players tance of responding to the dents, fans and everyone con­made plans to spend the week­conditions raised by cerned, it was mutually decid­end out of town. Hurricanes Georges were pri­ed that it would be a mistake 
Georges was forecast to hit mary in our decision," to play the game," roote said. the Florida Keys on Priday, with the effects of the storm expected to felt in Miami and beyond. 
The cancellation of the UCLA-Miami game was announced hours before the Bruins were to leave Los Angeles for Miami. A crowd of about 42,000 had been expect­ed for the nationally televised game at the Orange Bowl. 
Toledo said the decision not to travel was a relief to his players. 
"If I was told to play the game, I'd play the game," the UCLA coach said. "But I'm kind of glad we're not. I'm responsible for those young men and I'd feel terrible if something happened. You've 

Erin Beanie Baby 

with purchase of 
MVP €~ Jacket 
specially priced at $129 99 
www.ndcatalog.com 
THE HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
On the Campus Phone: 631-6316 
fOOTBALL HOURS: 
Fri: 9am -Bpm • Sat: Bam -Bpm Sun: 9am -5pm 

The VarsityShop 

In the Joyce Center Phone: 631-8560 
fOOTBALL HOURS: 

Fri: 9am -8pm • Sat: Bam -6pm Sun: 1Oam -4pm 
While supplies last. Not to be combined with any offer or discount. Any returns of this MVP Jacket promotion must be accompanied by the sales receipt and Erin Beanie Baby. 

Friday, September 25, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 360o Stadium Theater • Training Center • Pigskin Pageantry • Hall of Champions 
• Strategy Clinic • Bowl Games & National Championships • Great Moments 
PREVIEW THE NOTRE DAME/PURDUE GAME AT THE HALL OF FAME! 
Sponsored by the Knights ofColumbus, Council 553 
Friday, September 25, 8:30P.M. at the College Football Hall of Fame Press Box 
Football history, trivia, door prizes and the latest information on Notre Dame ana1Purdue. 
The world's most exciting and interactive sports Hall ofFame is just a ­FREE SHUTTLE ride away! 
Shuttle Hours & Schedule: Shuttle will run from 12 noon -8:30 P.M. (Friday Only!) 
Bus will pick up and drop offat the Main Circle east ofAlumni Hall on Notre Dame Ave. 

NOTRE DAME 
to Hall of Fame 
12:00 NOON 
1:00 P.M. 2:00P.M. :3:00P.M. 4:00P.M. 5:00P.M. 6:00P.M. 7:00P.M. 
HALL OF FAME 
To Notre Dame 
12:30 P.M. 1::30 P.M. 2:30P.M. 3:30P.M. 4:30P.M. 5:30P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:30P.M. 

-
I .800.440.FAME 
( 1.800.440.3263) • http://collegejootball.org/ 
219.235.9999 
~~-----.... .... ~----~~-~----------­
~-··-~~--~· 
page 26 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 25, 1998 

Practice finally pays off for Belles in first win 
ALEXA HILAL Sports Writer 
Hard work and determination have finally paid oft' for the Saint Mary's soccer team this year. 
After a rocky start to the sea­son, the BeJles surpassed the competition as they shut out Franklin 4-0 Thursday after­noon, improving their record to 1-6. 
"Good teamwork and effective communication were key ele­ments in our victory," said head coach Robert Sharp. "We really dominated." 
Saint Mary's otl'ense came out strong with an incredible 31 shots on goal. Melissa Wychocki and Katie Barger lead the attack, while Laura Pullen con­trolled the defense and kept the back alive. 
The Belles dominated the field from the beginning. They took a 1-0 lead with a shot from senior Katie Wagner at 12:23. With good movement up the sides. Saint Marv's continued their attack o~ Franklin. Their attempts proved successful just before the 40-minute mark as 
K.S. Rives sent the ball sailing into the net with the help of Katie Barger. 
"Barger played a great game," said Cernanec. "She kept the midfield moving and was key in distributing the ball." 
Meanwhile the Belles defense stayed strong, only allowing one shot in the first half on goal­keeper and co-captain Jo Wagner. 
"At stopper Laura [Pullen} controlled the defense well," said Sharp. Our defenders played tough." 
The spark had been ignited in the first half. and in the follow­ing 45 minutes of play, the fire burned strong. At 65:01, Wychocki gained control of the ball and placed her first goal of the game. Keeping their compo­sure, Saint Mary's connected again in the 72nd minute of play to score their fourth and final goal with a successful second ball in the net for Wychocki. 
"It's good to finally have a win under our belt," said Sharp. "I immediately relished the victory, but am already looking ahead to our game against Wisconsin Whitewater this weekend. We still have a lot of work to do." 
"Coming off a win will help a lot," said Cernanec. "Losing six games in a row is rough on a team, but this win boosted our morale. We are very enthusias­tic." 


M.Soccer 
continued from page 32 
utive Big East shutout wins last week, over Boston College 3-0 and Providence 8­0. 
Hoping to continue their recent charge in their first road Big East game, St. John's will look for contribu­tions from a number of play­ers. Junior Pablo Budna net­ted two goals against Boston College, with Danny Parkin adding another. Dennis James led the way in the Providence blowout with a goal and two assists. • 
Of equal importance to the Irish this weekend will be a quick turn around on the defense to spark the attack, which has been less produc­tive than at the beginning of the season. 
The biggest concern has been the recent overtime games, where the Irish picked up a tie and a loss against Pittsburgh and Rutgers, both inferior teams. The opponent defense was able to shut down the Irish goal produc­tion, allowing them just 17 shots in the two games, including just four in the 102 minutes against Rutgers. 
A steady barrage of attacks from the legwork of goal scor­ers Shane Walton (six goals, four assists), Ryan Cox (two goals, five assists), and Ben Bocklage (two goals, two assists) will be the defining statistic of the game. 
Notre Dame will come out on top only if their defensive press catches the Red Storm off guard and behind up front. 
In a game of constantly changing predators and prey, a win against the top of the chain will move the Irish up more than a few links. 
"We need to take advantage of the homefield," said Murphy. "It'll be a big win for the program if we beat St. John's." 
PEACE CORPS 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, September 17 6:00 p.m. -7:30 p.m. 
.~ ~ (800) 424-8580 ~ www.peacecorps.gov 
-
;/i :::1 .·

v.tt\ ;11 18118 COMMICTIOM 
..,,~::.--.liiiV 525 N. HILL ST. 233-8505 ::1 a MULTI-LEVEL DANCE CLUB 


SWINGER AND USTENER PARTY 
Ifswing is your thing, this is your night. Iflistening is your thing, this is your 
DJ LEON spinning the best in big band swing music: Count Basie, Duke Ellington, Louie Prima, and many other great swing dance bands. 
For the listener and semi swingers, the best in jazz and blues, Miles Davis, Charlie Parker, Dizzy, Bruebeck, and many other great jazz artists, plus Blues Lovers Specials by B.B. King, Muddy Waters, Billie Holiday, Sinatra and many other greats. 
ALL HAPPENING AT THE IRISH CONNECTION EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT FOR THOSE WHO WANT A CHANGE FROM THE REGULAR BAR SCENE. 
DOORS OPEN 8 PM 

Welcome Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, 
Holy Cross, Faculty, Staffand Students Papa invites you to get a $5 Certificate for FREE* 
*Join us for Lunch or Dinner between now and September 30, Show your Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross ID and Get a $5 Certificate. 
Redeemable .u your next \'isir. One cerritic.ue per I.D. Cerritic.ue's may not be combined with .my other discount or otler. 
Located at: 5110 Edison Lakes Parkway (corner ofMain St. & Edison Lakes Parkway) Mishawaka, IN (219) 271-1692 RESERVATIONS ACCPTED OPEN: Sunday-Thursday: 11 am -l 0 pm Friday-Saturday: ll am -ll pm 
i""~~.~~ 
It's Fun, It's Fresh, It's Friendly ... It's the Italian You'll Fall In Love with. 

Friday, September 25. 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOfl lr:AGUf: BASEBALL 
Yanks hit 111 wins on Spencer HR 
Associated l'rcss ally is regarded as baseball's best team ever. 
The Yankees moved 63 games over .500 for the NEW YOHK lirst time since the end of the 1927 season and Otw of' llw twwnst Yanknes hnlped them tie one bnat the expansion Dnvil Hays l'or the eighth timn 
o(" !Jasn!Jall's bigg!~Sl n~cords. in nine games. 
Nnw York matl"!wd tlw i\nwriean Lnague mark Mike Buddie (4-1) got the win with two shutout of' Ill wins Thursday night as Shatw Spencm· hit innings in relief of David Wells, the Yankees' a go-ahead grand slam in tlw sixth inning f'or a probable startnr in their postseason opener nnxt 5-2 victory ovnr tlw Tampa Bay Dnvil Hays. week. 
Nnw York (II I-4R) nqualed tlw I954 Cleveland Wilson i\lvarez (6-14) took a no-hitter into the Indians ( 111-4:{) and trails only the I906 Chicago fifth and a 2-1 lead into the sixth before walking Culls (I HJ-36) in tlw win column. llowever, these Chuck Knoblauch on four pitches. Yank!H~s had a I (J2-game sdwdule while the Singles by Dernk Jeter and Bernie Williams Indians set tlw i\1. rn!~ord in a 154-game season. produced the Yankees' first run, Chili Davis 
SpntH:er, a 2(1-ynar-old rookie. is the hottest walked and Spencer followed with his eighth Yanket~ ol" latn. with II hits -five of them homer of the season. honwrs -and 15 HBis in his last 17 at-bats. lin W!~lls allowed both runs and five hits in five hit his first t:arner grand slam last Friday at innings and finished the regular season 18-4. llaltimore. Jnf'f Nelson got three outs f'or his third save. 
Nnw York. which has three ganws left, set a i\lvarez gave up all live runs and four hits in tPam rncord l'or wins, topping the 1927 Yanknns five-plus innings. lie has won just twice in 15 (I I0-44 ). tlw l'amnd Murdnrer's How that gnnnr-starts since coming ofT the disabled list July 6. 
1235 N. Eddy Street, (219) 289-4831 South of Stadium At the corner of Angela, Juniper, and Eddy 
September 26th, Before the Gatne, 8:00 am -1:30 pm 
Items signed hy: foe Montana, Lou Holtz, Bob Davie, Tony Rice, Paul Hornung, and many others 
Retail Game-Day Game Day Special Price Special 
DMZ Derrick Mayes Mini Replica Helmet $39.95 $19.95 
TMI'Ol ND Signature Hat $14.95 $ 7.95 
TM 1'02 Notre Dame Sweat Shirt $49.95 $19.95 
Introducing ... 


"CASTLE POINT SELECT'' 
Designedfor the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate --just Compare! 
* UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED Sp~ctacular Furnishings Available! 
• 
27" Stereo Television 

• 
Cherry Finished Furnishings 

• 
Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker 



• 
• AJI Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding 
• Plus Much More! 
• MILLION DOLLAR RENOVA11UN 
* 
LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft) Starting at $494.00 

* 
LARGE Two Bedrooms (I ,025 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 


OR $149.00 per Person with Four Occupants Inc/utkd with rmtals for a LIMITED tim~ -FREE full privilege membership to the Castk Point H~alth and Ra.cqtut Club including: 
* 
New Fimess Center * Outdoor Pool * Beach Volleyball 

* 
Sauna & Whirlpool * 3 Racquetball Courts * Indoor/Outdoor 

* 
Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts Basketball 


• 
Hurry in for a Tour ofthe Mo6t Porular Apartment6
• 
While The;t_~a6t.
Castle:Pointd\}Jartmmts CCeveCtloo @ Jronwooo J\oaas 
272~8110 
www.castfe--potnt.com Xon~-St~tur~ 8cun-6 pm Suna~ 11pm-5pn"Where-Ro~a( [ivmg is Re-asona6(e-" 



page 27 

...... 

.. 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRI. & SAT. 7:30 AND 9:30PM PRESENTED BY NO FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE WWW. ND. EDU/-COTHWEB 
-
~ ~lloeCJr Vllla~zes J 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 1181 South Bend Ave. 
-
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 271--7674 
r---------------, 
,... 
I ~~ fit;)/) I I ~e!j~ I I 
I 
: Haircuts : 
L---------------~ 
We carry Paul Mitchell) Matrix, Redken & Texture Line 
-----------------~ 


~~----~-------------~~~--~ 
page 28 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 25, 1998 

McGwire dry, stands at 65 in Cards final homestand 
-
.. 
--
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS Mark McGwire's cushion is going, going, gone. 
McGwire had two games to answer Sammy Sosa's two­homer salvo, but came up empty. So the home run derby remained tied at 65 Thursday night after McGwire went 1­for-3 with a walk in the St. Louis Cardinals' 6-3 victory over the Montreal Expos. 
McGwire. who last homered on Sunday, is 2-for-1 0 -both singles -in the first three games of the Cardinals' sea­son-ending, six-game homes­land. And now both he and Sosa, who had the day off, have three games to go to set­tle the race. 
Ray Lankford had four hits and four RB!s, including a three-run homer, as the Cardinals won for the seventh time in eight games. 
Before the game. Expos man­ager Felipe Alou promised that his pitchers would challenge McGwire, saying: "We're not going to walk him like cow­ards, but we're not going to put it on a tee for him." 
Rookie Javier Vazquez (5-15) looked a bit skittish in the first when he walked McGwire on four pitches to extend his NL record to 160. For that, Vazquez was booed when he came to the plate in the second inning. 
McGwire got at least a few pitches to swing at his last two at-bats against Vazquez, tak­ing a called third strike on a 2­2 breaking ball in the third and singling through short in the fifth. 
After Brian Jordan greeted Shayne Bennett with his 25th homer in the seventh, McGwire hit a comebacker to the mound on a checked swing. 
Vazquez made his first career start against the Cardinals. and the remainder of the Expos' starters have lit­tle or no history against McGwire. He's 0-for-3 with three walks and an RBI against Miguel Batista, who starts Friday. 

Donovan Osborrw (5-4) sur­vived a shaky start. allowing three runs in six innings. Juan Acedevo worked the ninth for his 13th save. 
The Expos scored two runs in the first on an HBI double by Vladimir Guerrero and a sacri­fice fly by Shane Andrews. Vazquez retired the first batter in the bottom half. then hit Jordan and walked McGwire before Lankford hit his 31st homer -matching his career high-for a 3-2 lead. 
Fernando Seguignol doubled and eventually scored on a sacrifice t1y by Vazquez to tie it in the fourth. The Cardinals broke the tie in the !ifth on an infield hit by Jordan, a single by McGwire and a single by Lankford. 
Pinch-hitter J.D. Drew made it 6-3 with an HBI single in the eighth. 
Giants 6, Pirates 2 
SAN FHANCISCO 
Barry Bonds and the San Francisco Giants set up a real­ly wild weekend in the wild­card race. 
The Giants pulled within one game of idle New York and Chicago for the NL's final play­off spot, beating the Pittsburgh Pirates 6-2 Thursday to com­plete a four-game sweep. 
San Francisco, the Mets and the Cubs all finish with three games on the road. The Giants visit Colorado (76-83) while the Mets play at East champion Atlanta (103-56) and the Cubs play at Central champion Houston (100-59) . 
Bonds hit his 37th homer 
and Joe Carter, Rich Aurilia 
and pitcher Russ Ortiz also 
connected for solo home runs. 
The Giants won for the sev­
enth time in eight games. They 
got their first four-game sweep 
of the season and their first at 
home against Pittsburgh since 
July 1985. 
Bonds homered in the first. 
Aurilia hit his ninth and Ortiz 
hit his first major league 
homer in the second. and 
Carter led off the sixth with his 
17th homer of the season. 
FREE REFILL 
on All Sizes of Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
S4.00 All Shows Before 6 pm 
Negotiators (R)  OS  
2:00 5:00 8:00  
Something About Mary (R)  Mono  
1:45 4:30 7:15 9:45  
Dr. Oolittle(pg-13)  OS  
2:15 4:45 7:30 9:30  

Ticket Available All Shows Before 6 pm 
Why do Fools Fall in Love (R) DTS 
2:00 4:45 7:20 9:55 
How Stella Got Her Groove Back (R) DTS 1:45 4:40 7:15 9:45 
Air Bud 2 (G) ULT 
2:20 4:30 6:50 9:00 
ParentTrap (PG) ULT 
1:30 4:20 7:10 9:50 Studio 54 (R) ULT 2:30 4:50 7:30 9:40 
MaskofZorro (PG-13) ULT 
1:15 4:10 7:00 10:00 

Carter had a sacri!ice f1y and 
J.T. Snow had an RBI single as the Giants added two runs in the sevpnth. 
Ortiz (4-4) allowed one run on four hits before leaving the game after five innings because of lower back tight­ness. 
Tony Womack had a sacrifice fly in the fifth and Doug Strange had a run-scoring groundout in the eighth for the Pirates. who have lost five straight and eight of nine. Pittsburgh has lost 22 of 27 games since a nine-game win­ning streak in late August. 
Elmer Dessens (2-6) allowed four runs on seven hits in 5 2-3 innings. He is 0-4 as a starter this season, and 0-6 in eight major league starts in the last three seasons. 
Pittsburgh lost its 90th game, the l'irst time the Pirates have lost that many since going 64­98 in 1986. 
Phillies vs. Marlins ppd 
MIAMI 
It took a hurricane to stop the losing for the Florida Marlins-at least temporarily. 
Thursday night's game against the Philadelphia Phillies was postponed because 
of Hurricane  Georges  and  
rescheduled  as part of a  dou­ 
bleheader Saturday.  

Florida and Philadelphia are to conclude the season with a four-game series. If the Phillies sweep, the Marlins would fin­ish with 111 losses, the most in the major leagues since the 1965 New York Mets. 
Georges was forecast to hit the Florida Keys on Friday. with the effects of the storm expected to felt in Miami and beyond. If Friday night's game is also postponed, the teams will try to play back-to-back doubleheaders Saturday and Sunday. 
Wolfie's 
SPECIAL OF THE WEEK! 
Halfoff any Pasta with each Sandwich Pl!~~Sh!!~~~~9.) 
Check us out at http://www. wolfie.net 
"Our plan is to play our remaining four games of the season, but with the safety of our fans and employees in mind," Florida president Don 
Smiley said. 

Philadelphia's Curt Schilling (15-14) is scheduled to pitch against Livan Hernandez (1 0­
12) Friday. 


! ........................Atlanta 105-56 2 ....................... ..-.NY Mets 88-71 3 ..............• ~,~~f~f1i13t!~lphia 74-84 


64-95 
The Observer/Joe Mueller 
Every Wednesday  8 to 10:45 pm  
Learn the latest da  the country.  
Dance Party, 8  
Di•D~  
Atf~Jis  
jx:  
Dan t(;~!'s  
First & Main,_:,·  

Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More! 
Location: -in the Campus Shoppes -1835 South Bend Ave. -Between Ironwood and Edison 
Hours: -Sunday to Thursday llam to lam -Friday and Saturday I lam to Jam 

FREE DELIVERY 
243-9911 
($5 ~!inimum -l.imiled !leliv<ry ~\rca-JJrivm !"any Le.s rhan $20) 
----~ --~-----­

~ ~~--~~--~~~~----·-~ ~~~~ ~
.. .. ..~....~~..................~~~........ .... ......~.................................... 
Friday, September 25, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 
• MAJOH LEAGUE BASH3ALL 
BoSox gain berth with win over wounded Orioles 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

l'ndro Martinnz strugglnd in a game that would givn Boston its first playoff bnrth in thrnn years. Nomar Garciaparra madn sum thn Hod Sox won it. 
Martinnz allowml three homers as his Snptnmber struggles continued, but Garciaparra homered twice and scored four runs as the Hod Sox clinched the AL wild-card berth with a !J-6 win over the slumping Baltirnrm~ Oriolos on Thursday night. 
The Hml Sox probably will begin post­srmson play in Clnvnland noxt Tuesday with Martinez (lY-7), winless in his pre­vious four starts, on the mound. They would fac1~ T1~xas if thn Hangers finish with a bntler record than tlw Indians, who bngan tho day two games ahead. 
Tom Gordon pitched a perfort ninth for his 42nd consecutivo savo, setting a major leaguo record. Gordon, who had sharnd the record of 41 straight with Hod Br~ek and Trovor lloffman, has 45 savns for tho snason. 
Whiln Martinez may bn a source of concern, the Hed Sox have rebounded from their recent problems, going 4-1 in their last live games to improve to 10-14 this month. 
Boston led 8-:~ aftnr scoring three runs in the fourth and four in the fifth. Martinez faltered in the seventh when he gave up a leadofl' homer to ILl. Surhofl', a double to Chris I Ioiles and an HBI sin­gle to Mike Bordick that made it 8-5. 
lie was relieved by Greg Swindell, who allowed a single to Hobbie Alomar before getting out of the jam. 
Dennis Eckersley tied lloyt Wilhelm for most earner appearances by a pitcher, 1 ,070, when he relieved Swindell with one out in the eighth. 
The first batter he faced was Cal Ripken, whose major-league record of 2,(J32 consecutive games ended last Sunday. Hipken popped out to second baseman Mike Benjamin. The next bat­ter, Surhof'f, cut the lead to 9-6 with his 20th homer of the year. 
Garciaparra, whose second-inning homer had cut Baltimore's lead to 2-1, led off the seventh with his 35th homer of the season. 

John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18lkarat Yellow Gold & Platinum~ 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
The Red Sox took control with three runs in the fourth against Sidney Ponson (8-9). They scored on a passed ball by Hoiles and HBI doubles by Troy O'Leary and Scott I latteberg. 
They built the lead to 8-3, pounding out six hits in a 27 -minute bottom of the fifth. 
Darren Lewis led o!l' with a single, took third on Mo Vaughn's single and scored on Gareiaparra's single. Mike Stanley's ground-rule double made it 6-3, O'Leary hit a sacrifice fly and Darnm Bragg sin­gled in the final run of the inning. 
Twins 2, Indians 0 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Brad Hadke pitched 7 1-3 shutout innings for his first home victory since June 9 and David Ortiz had a two-run double as Minnesota handed Cleveland its fourth straight loss. 2-0 Thursday night. 
Radke (12-14) gave up four hits, struck out seven and walked two for his first win at the Metrodome since pitching a four-hit shutout against the Chicago 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist Telephone: 287-1427 
Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m. 
SPECIAL 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 


• 
Facial Tanners 


• 
Luxurloua, Clean Private Rooma 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling with Every Lounge 


VVIN AN OFFICIAL 
Tan All You Can 
closedMond•v• Minute~ fro"' Campus 
State Roa<l 20/lronwood

for one month $35.00 
expires October '98 

272-0312 
Signed by Head Coach 
BOB DAVIE 
A \Ninner \/Viii be selected 
every Monday follotNing a home game!!! 
Entry fortns available at 
Harnrnes NO Bookstore & The Varsity Shop 
Cubs. Since then, he had been 0-5 with two no-decisions at home. 
Hadke, who had given up 13 earned runs in 10 2-3 innings in his two previ­ous starts, gave up only one hit over the first six innings -a single by Kenny Lofton in the third. 
Hick Aguilera pitched the ninth for his 38th save. The Twins broke up a scornless game in the sixth against Jaret Wright (12-10). 
Otis Nixon led ofT with his second sin­gle of the game, Denny lloeking ground­ed out and Matt Lawton walked. Ortiz, who is hitting .365 in his last 19 games, then doubled into the right-field corner for a 2-0 lead. 
Wright, who is expected to start the Indians' first playofT game, gave up two runs and five hits in seven innings. Ile struck out six and walked one. 
After giving up an infield single to Nixon to start the game, Wright retired 11 in a row before allowing singles to Ortiz and Todd Walker in the fourth. Terry Steinbach then hit a ball to deep left, but Brian Giles made an over-the­shoulder catch at the fence. 
········~~ ~­
The Observer/Joe Mueller 


'l,i~N ~...l!'~~ 
©The Castle &Co. 
• Wolf Tanning Bada 

.... 
-
-
-----------~-~--------~------~----------~ 
page 30 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 25, 1998 
Deeter 
continued from page 32 
NCAA District IV MePt titlP and set a school n~cord in tlw 5,000 meters with a time of 
16:50.84 at the Mevo Invitational that same vear. Even as years of s"i!ccess stared her in the ·race, Deeter knew something had to change. 
"My freshman year I ran for the wrong rea­sons. All I was concerned with was running and everything else came second," Deter said. 
In her sophomore season, Deeter won the National Catholic Invitational and finished 16th at the Big East championships. Though not as successful as the previous year. it represented Deeter's commitment to changing her priorities. 
"Last season was an adjustment period. I final­ly discowred how to balance soeial life. acade­mies. and athletics where I wanted them to be," Deter explained. 
Deeter docsn't even consider her high acco­lades of 1996 career highlights. The best is yet to come. 
"I want to make all-America the next two years," Deter stated. "If not this year. it will hap­pen before I leave Notn~ Dame." 
JoAnna, who hails from Glen Ellyn, Ill., looks to be back in prime form already this season. She has won both races she entered -the Wolf&. Kettle Invitational and last weekend's National Catholic. With the time of 17:25 last Friday, Deeter became the first female to ever win three consecutive National Catholic individual champi­onships. 
Next weekend, an opportunity for another !irst is available. Deeter could become the first female to ever win two Notre Dame Invitational titles. The outstanding runs Deeter has already dis­played in her career arc a credit to her attitude. 
"Every race you have to be prepared and go after it. No matter what the competition, run the best race you can," Deter said. Never one to brag. it had to be pointed out to her that she won three National Catholic championships. 1-Ier sights are set on the futun~. not the past. 
Deeter will be the anchor of the women's cross country team that is looking to make a statement this year. 
"We will be very disappointed if wo don't get to nationals this year," Deter commented. 
The women have won the first two meets of the year and are dedicatnd to making their presence felt at the NCAA championships. With JoAnna Deeter leading the way, don't be surprised to see the women achieve that lofty goal. 
Rank Pts 1997finish 
1. 395 1 2. 386 2 3. 366 3 4. 345 8 5. 330 4 6. 320 6 7. 787 14 
8. iSCOl q§jj~} (''.':''::,, •••,,.,:,o:o::o:::::o:oo:o,o,,,,,..• 241 5 
9. 7 
10. 11. 12 
12. 10 13. 9 14. 16 15. 13 16. 18
121 '· 
..,,,.,.,,,,:, \~\::. . . 11 7 "':"':"': ., .. ·.·
17. 

18...?,..,,:::~:'''''''':':~~C,H~}~~~.••a \107 19. 1Q2,, 15 
88 .
20. 
The Observer/Joe Mueller 

-
-
W.Soccer 
continued from page 32 
Wildcats. The senior now stands just four goals behind Cindy Daws. who holds the Irish reeord. 
Indiana comes to town ranked 25th by Soccer News and with an impressive 5-1 record. In their last outing, the Hoosiers beat Ohio State 2-1 in overtime. Notre Dame beat the Buckeyes 9-0 ear­lier this season in an exhibition game. 
Notre Dame will try to extend 

The Observer/Meg Kroener 

Defender Kelly Lindsey anchors a stingy Notre Dame backfield looking to pick up two more wins against Indiana and Wake Forest. 

their eight game winning streak over the Hoosiers. They won 8-0 last year in Bloomington and knocked IU out of the NCM's in 1996. when they also defeated them 8-0. 
"They're having a good season so far," said Gerardo. "They only have one loss and their confi­dence is up, so they are looking to have a good game." 
To put goals on the board. the Irish will have to get past Ashley Davis. who is first in the Big Ten with a 0.66 goals against aver­age. Junior forward Tracy {;rose will try to test the Irish defense. She has at least one point in all six of IU's games this season and already has six goals on the year. 
Thr, Irish will look to go to 2-1 on the season against ACC oppo­nents whnn they play Wake Forest on Sunday. The Deamon Deacons are led by senior mid­fielders Stdanie Mathews and Meghan Suddes. Suddes leads the team in scoring with four goals. while Mathews has netted three goals and dished out one assist. Junior Anne Shropshire has one goal and a team-high 
Universi!)' of Norre Dame 
five assists this season. 
Earlir,r this week, the Deacons defeated Florida State 3-1, but then fell to No. 18 Clemson, 2-1. Wake Forest's n~eord now stands at 4-2-1 overall, 1-1 in the ACC. 
Notre Dame will face two opponents who expect to chal­lenge the Irish. 
Notn~ Dame will be on a mis­sion to defend its homr, field and send the Hoosiers and Detu:ons packing. 
"We looking to come out this weekend and play how wn're capable ol' playing," said Gorardo. "We'rn trying to improve in every gamo and play better as the season progrcSS(~S." 


Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r-----------,

ione-Montlli 1oTanning 1
1 1 I I t 
: Unlimited : : Bed : 
I . I Qf I . I 
: Tannmg : : Sesstons : : only $40.00: : only $35.00 : 
~-----------~ ~-----------~ 
Tan the rest of '98 for $98 
University Commons hy UP Mall Grape & McKinley lll'ar KMart 
272-7653 256-9656 
The Helen Kellogg lnsutute for International Studies 216 Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
KELLOGG 

Norre Dame, Indiana USA 46556-5677 
INSTITUTE 

Cosponsored with The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 


Friday, September 25, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 31 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
thura t.Oaopln~ £ri ~; J.Oaopln~ aat ~; tOaopln cuahing $2 at door 
;..,.,. 


FOXTROT 
I, uM, WANTED STILL, I Do To &ET 'fov SoME· HAVE A LITTLE lliiNG REAU.'I' GIFT FoR You... SPEciAL, BUT I 
_)
CoULDN'T AFFoRD ANYTHING I LIKED. 

llll 1\FI{T 

~ 

57"That's-­blowl" sa Emulate Ryan 59 Spice route procession 61 Thai towers 63 Nickel, e.g. 64 Like an encyclopedist 65 Minds 66 Governing bodies 
DOWN 
1 Philippic 2 Ordinarily 3 Not fixed 4 Actors Hale Sr. 
and Jr. 5 Retardation 6 Ageless, in 
poesy 7 Dickens, 
notably 8 Ankle bones 9 Sex-changing 
suffix 30 Inedible orange 
10 Wire measures 31 Heine poem 
t1 Give off "--Troll" 
12 Greets from afar 33 Settings for 
13 Manet's idylls workplace 35 Faithful wives t4 Reserved 
37 Posthaste 

21 "Paradise Lost" 39 Lutheran hymncharacter 40 Calls it a career
25 Suffix with liquid 
28 One of "The 41 Ancient Greek Usual coin Suspects" of 43 Expression of film approval 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Valerie Harper, John Lee Hook­er, Ray Bradbury, Norman Schwar7kopf 
Happy Birlhday: This can be a greal }'ear if you take the time and make the efforl to follow through with plans. Don't just dream about what you want to accomplish; take action and turn your dreams into reality. You'll have all the right tools to get where you want to go, so don't waste this exciting time by sitting on the sidelines. Your numbers: 10, 13, 19, 32. 41,46 
ARIES (March 21·April 19): Put
BILL AMEND 
your cash into personal investments such as real estate or art. Listen to children. They will have an interest­ing perspective that may help you clear up your confusion. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can beautify your surroundings, but don't go over budget. Your career will be in a high cycle. Go after your goals and don't worry about making changes from one place to another. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your contributions to large organizations will pay off in the networking that the group will provide. You can make deals, but don't think you have to donate a lot just to impress others. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may want to make career changes that will lead rou in a direction that
SCOTT ADAM.<.; 
involves home.s, services or items for the home. Look into the possibility of starting your own business. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your good looks and charismatic nature will attract a lot of attention. Your intellec­tual conversation will entice those 
! you wish to interest in your future 
( 5HLL NOTHING? J 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 
44 Notched 53 70's TV spinoff 45 Shipping 
55 lndistinguish· 
Join The Observer
inquiry 

able 47 Meaning of 
56 What one isn't
"cave" 49 Ravel works 

60 Tiny toiler 
staff.
52 Carries on 62 Report maker 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
plans 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may divulge information that will cause rroblems for you later. Take care o any minor health problems that flare up. Your vitality may be lowered if you take on too much. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't offer to pay for others. Your good nature and desire to keep things har­monious will result in your being taken for granted. Empty promises are likely. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): jeal­ousy will cause major problems. You can expect your mate to retaliate in such a way that you'll be left all alone. Don't be too eager to seek revenge. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Group tours will interest you. Don't be afraid to join travel clubs that will give you a safe journey to distant lands and bring you into contact with new partners. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Read between the lines. Signing con­tracts or agreements will not be in your best interest. Emotional matters concerning elders in your family may be upsetting. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't expect your relationship to work if you don't listen to each other's complaints. Depression will set in if you don't start talking honest· ly about the existing problems. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Career changes are in order. You should get your resume updated and send it out to companies that can pro· vide you with the type of unique position you require. 000 

-
-
1 1~1 '""'"ORO 
ACROSS 1 South of the border order 8 "I remember 
when .. ." 15 Cut oH 16 Spark n Vandal 
18 Had flashbacks about 19 Flaherty's "Man of-" 20 Narrow inlets 22 Inscribed pillar 
23 Makes tracks? 24 First name in gymnastics 
26 Command to Rex 27Conduit fitting 
28 Karolyi who coached 24-Across 
29 Perfectly 32 Hard to grasp 34 Fake 36 History 
chapters 38Quod­faciendum 39 Suburb of 
Providence 42 Lacunae 45 Poseidon's 
domain 46 Neuwirth of "Chicago" 48 Third book of 
the Bible: Abbr. so Rubbish 51 Wage earner 53 --avis 54 Spring 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


--~-~-­


• Women's interhall 
midweek matchups. 
\;~;:+~?. r~~ n~p): '-·:;.;:;:~-~ ~ ~.hr:· 
lr~~h ~n d~;·~ {.":!J.f (.":..::~~.irt ::·h~;:[.':;~ pi~:~=. ~~;h~~~.-;:'
PORTS 
p.26
.t' 2 ..>. 


O THE 
page32-----------------------------­-----------------Friday, September 25, 1998
BSERVER 
f&\11CtttfSS tC.amrnrt 
Deeter balances life, running 
By ALAN P. WASIELEWSKI Sports Writer 
Distance running is one of the most distinct sports in the world. Particular attention is given to individual perfor­mance. Medals are awarded for each event at the Olympics to a single person, not the team. 
Aside from relay races, Olympic and professional run­ning competitions are focused on strictly personal perfor­mance. Collegiate running demands more symmetry between the team and an indi­vidual. Cross country, indoor, and outdoor participants run both for themselves and for the team. 
Junior JoAnna Deeter, the leader of the Notre Dame women's cross country team, is focused on perfecting the team­individual balance in 1998. 
Deeter has already estab­lished herself as one of the most dominant cross country runners in the nation. As a freshman in the 1996 cam­paign, she was named an all­American and finished third in the NCAA cross country cham­pionships. 
Deeter was also the first Notre Dame runner to win the 
see DEETER I page 30 


Weekend tourney brings talent to field 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

State rival Indiana travels north to take on the third­ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team tonight. 
Indiana and Notre Dame. 
however. are just two of the teams participating in this week­end's four­team Irish Key Bank Classic held 


at Alumni Gerardo Field. 
After battling the Hoosiers, Notre Dame will close out the tournament with an afternoon game against Wake Forest on Sunday. 
The Irish are off to a 6-1 start so far this season and are a perfect 4-0 in Big East play. Last weekend, the Irish record­ed a pair of shutouts. beating Big East opponents Rutgers and Villanova, 3-0 and 5-0 respectively. 
"I think we're coming along pretty well," said senior Monica Gerardo. 
"We've been working hard at practice and I think the games last w~ek gave us some confi­dence. 
Jenn Grubb earned Big East defensive player of the week honors for the second time this season and for the fourth time of her career. She scored her first goal of the season when she netted a corner kick against the Wildcats. She added an assist later in the game. 
Grubb and company played smothering defense. allowing a total of just four shots in last weekend's games. 
"I think they're doing really well back there," said Gerardo. "Kara Brown is new to her position and I think she's adjusting well. With more time. they will really start to gel and get better as a unit." 
Anne Makinen had two sec­ond-half goals against Villanova. while .Jenny Heft scored her team-leading eighth goal. Lindsey Jones recorded the first goal of her career in the win over Rutgers. 
Gerardo inched closer to the school's goal record when she scored the 57th of her career in the game against the 
see W.SOCCER I page 30 

Irish look to weather the Storm against St. John's 
--
.~ 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The theory of "survival of the fittest" poses just as great of a threat to those in the middle of the pack as to those on the bottom of the grouping. 
Before long, the hunters in the middle will become the hunted by not only the stronger above them, but also the weak and feeble that can capitalize on the attacked middle breed. 
With just one loss in their first six games, a feat last matched by the 1996 installment that went to the second round of the NCAA tournament, Notre Dame is the predator. 
Despite the 1-0 overtime loss last weekend at Rutgers. the Irish sit in fourth place in the Big East while holding on to a National Soccer Association of America ranking of No. 18. 
But it's a jungle out there, and the Red Storm of St. John's are looking to prove that to the Irish. Riding a five-game win streak, St. John's comes to South Bend this Saturday to face a Notre Dame squad in need of the two points a win would bring to stay atop the conference. In four previous meet­ings, the Storm have beaten the Irish three times and tied them once. 
The first thought on the team's mind playing seventh-ranked St. 
John's isn't upset. The Irish will go into this game with the same focus they took into their other Big East matches. 
"We're going into this game with the idea that every Big East game is worth the same. A win against any of them is two points." said senior co-captain Phil Murphy. "We try to approach all Big East games, including this one, with the same attitude." 
As a defender, Murphy and the rest of the backfield have approached every game thus far with an aggressive attitude. The stingy Notre Dame defense, anchored by senior goalie Greg Velho, has allowed just six goals in six contests. Velho, in goal for all 582 minutes this season, posts a 0.93 goals against average. 
"Greg is always solid," com­mented Murphy. "He keeps us in matches, and we can count on him to do that every game." 
With the equally aggressive Red Storm attack to complement the Irish defense, this weekend's match will be anything but just another Big East game. With St. John's averaging 4.5 goals a game in Big East matches, Murphy and company will have a lot to defend against. 
The red-hot Red Storm are com­ing to town not only on the win streak, but also off of two consec­
seeM.. SOCCER I page 26 quick defensive play to direct drives to the Irish front line. 


vs. Purdue vs. St. John's 
Saturday, I :30 p.m. Saturday, 7:30p.m. 
SPORTS 

Cross Country Notre Dame Invitational October 2, 3:30 p.m. 
ATA 

vs. Indiana vs. Seton Hall Friday, 7:30p.m. October 2, 8 p.m. 
GLANCE 

SH 

'88 CHAMPIONSHIP IRISH EXCHANGE ROSTERS IRISH INSIGHT THE NATION PAGE2 PAGE3 PAGES PAGE6 PAGE7 
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 25, 1998 
ROAD TO THE 
NOTRE DAME VS. PURDUE 
'88 CHAMPIONSHIP 
Rice's arm guides Irish in 52-7 Boilermaker burst 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Nobody was quite sure what to think about Tony Rice at the start of the cham­pionship season. 
Realizing that the junior quarterback would be up against Purdue's stealthy sec­ondary, a collective breath was held as the nation waited for something to go wrong. 
Even after standing at the helm in wins against Michigan and Michigan State, crit­ics attacked Rice's passing efficiency. 
He had connected on only five of 21 passes, tossing up three freebies to defen­sive opponents in the first two games. 
Now he was going head to head with the nation's top-ranked pass defense who had already picked off six interceptions in two previous games. 
All worries quelled, however, as the Irish pounded the Boilermakers 52-7 with Rice's arm doing most of the malleting. 
No. 9 hit the bullseye on more than 66 percent of his passes, completing four of six passes for 85 yards in limited playing time as the Irish utilized four quarterbacks that day. He put the ball in the air for two touchdowns and ran for one as well. 
"I thought Tony threw more in the game today like he has in practice," then coach Lou Holtz said after a third consecutive win over a Big Ten school. "For the first time, I felt he didn't overstride.'' 
They did strive, however, to prove the first two games were not flukes. 


"We had the talent; it was just so green," said Tony Brooks, a sophomore fullback with the Irish in 1988. "Purdue always had this aura about them. I think [Holtz] always kept it in our minds. They had a reputation for spoiling some of Notre Dame's better years. Purdue was a top­ranked team in our minds.'' 
At the start of Notre Dame's opening drive, an upset was not out of the question. Rice came out shaky with two incom­
plete passes. 
He quickly recovered, rolling right on third and five to hit freshman flanker Pat Eilers for a first down. On the next play, Rice sprinted for a 38-yard touchdown. 
After Michael Stonebreaker stuffed Purdue's running drive, Rice took com­mand again. 
In another air show, Rice executed a nine-play, 72-yard drive for six more points. Rice delivered an 8-yard toss to wide open freshman tight end Derek Brown for a 14-0 jump. 
In the second quarter, Rice was on tar­get again. He landed the ball in Raghib "Rocket" Ismail's hands for a 54-yard score. Ismail went on to register 80 yards against the Boilermakers. 
After Mark Green's touchdown run and Ricky Watters' second punt return touch­down of the season, this one for 66 yards, Rice led his team into the locker room with a 42-0 lead. 
After the half, the eighth-ranked Irish tested their reserves. 
Senior backup Steve Belles threw for the first touchdown of his college career, hit­ting Brooks over the middle. 
Despite a stress fracture in his foot, Brooks had no problem spinning his wheels. He finished with a career high 109 yards on 11 carries. 
"I would say definitely, if not a coming out for us, it was a reckoning for myself and especially a lot of our opponents who didn't realize I'd be able to play," said Brooks, who often had to come out of games early with pain. 
Sophomore Billy Hackett filled in for Reggie Ho, who nailed all five point-after attempts, and booted a 44-yard field goal to give the Irish a 45-0 third quarter advantage. 
In the final quarter, a young Rodney Culver raced 36 yards for his first touch­down. 
The Boilermakers managed to put seven points on the board on a 10-yard pass against Notre Dame's second and third­string defense. However, 52-7 did not look too much better for Purdue, especially when Greg Davis nabbed an interception later in the fourth on Purdue's fmal drive. 
Purdue head coach Fred Akers attrib­uted his team's inefficiency to Rice's deter­mination -to forget the critics and play. 
"We hoped to make them throw when we wanted them to, but we couldn't," Akers said. "We had no illusions. We knew Rice could throw the ball." 
Rice not only proved he had an arm, but showed again how well his feet worked. 
On five attempts, he carried the ball for 67 of Notre Dame's total321 yards rushing and 468 total yards. 
Combining an aerial attack to his already amazing mobility on the ground, Rice helped add a second dimension to Notre Dame's game plan. 
"I think the Purdue game is really where he took off," Brooks remembered about his former teammate. "He had taken a lot of media heat and been challenged by the media and by Purdue indirectly because they had the best secondary in the country. 
"Going into the game, Tony Rice could easily have said, 'Not a lot is expected of me right now against these guys.' But at the same time, he and the rest of the team went out and played like it was a champi­onship game.'' 

A.! 6;'tJf ~ .nort rJI.0 ;-';:,..~~~ .,} :·~ • ··(t_>v_' -' • •v,}';, ~· ' ? ' ' ' . ' . '1 '1,,~~) 0"' (Memorize this number~lts half Your 2radesJ Extra LarseLarse 1ToPPins 14~~ 1 TOPPinS 16~~ $7.45$6.45 only valid @ above location • across from Linebacker GO IRISH •• CRUSH THE BOILERMAKERS  


Friday, September 25, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM THE PURDUE EXPONENT
IRISH EXCHANGE THE INDEPENDENT DAILY OF PURDUE 
By BRIAN NEUBERT 
Sport< Editor, The Purdue Exponent 

I laving already braved the vaunted Los AngPins Coliseum this season, Purdue sophomom quarterback Drnw Broes is ready for his noxt test in a hostile envi­ronnwnt: Notrn Damo Stadium. 
Purdue will travd to South Bend this weekend for a matehup with the (.'ighting Irish. 
"That's going to be a dream," said Brons of playing in Notre Dame Stadium. "You always dream about playing in a stadium likl~ that with all the tradition." 
Notre I>anw has plenty of tradition, as it has won II national titles and pro­duced 171 !irst-tnam All-Americans and soven lleisman Trophy winners. Notm Dame has one of the largest fan follow­ings in tho nation, and has each of its homo garnns tnlevised nationally on NBC. 
"As a kid. I watdwd every one of their games on TV," said Brees. "Especially at their place." 
Purdue upset Notre Dame at Hoss-Ade Stadium in one of the most dramatic wins of the 1997 season. The win snapped an 11-game losing streak to the Irish. 
Saturday's game, though, will be played at Notrn Dame, where Purdue hasn't won in 24 years. To make matters worse, the Fighting Irish had a bye this weekend, giving them an extra week off to prepare for the Boilermakers, who are experiencing somewhat of an offensive expansion. 
The Purdue passing game -with Brees having thrown for 721 yards and six touchdowns in three games -has been successful this season. Now, though, the tight end is involved. Redshirt freshman Tim Stratton caught four passes for 65 yards Saturday against Central Florida, the most produc­tion Purdue has gotten from its tight end since Oct. 18, 1997, when Jon Blackman 



THE EDGE 
Quarterbacks -Even 
Irish fans are wondering which Jarious Jackson will show up this Saturday-the one that rushed for 62 yards on 16 carries and threw two touchdown passes against Michigan or the Jackson that had negative rushing yards and was picked off twice in a loss to Michigan State. Sophomore quarterback Drew Brees, on the other hand, has been Mr. Consistency for Purdue in his first three starts. He doesn't however, have the same rushing ability that Jackson possesses. 
Running Backs • NO 
Senior Autry Denson is averaging 112 yards per game (5. 7 yards per carry) for the Irish this season. He rushed for a 
career-high 162 yards against the defending champs, but 
gained only 64 yards in the loss to the Spartans. Fullbacks 
Jamie Spencer and Joey Goodspeed haven't been at the top 
of their game since being plagued by injuries in '97. Darcey 
Levy, Denson's backup, had a three-yard touchdown run 
against MSU. Junior J. Crabtree leads Purdue with 227 rush 
yards, but was inefficient against USC. 
Receivers .. Purdue 
When Notre Dame puts the ball in the air, Jackson usually looks for Malcolm Johnson (5 receptions, 89 yards). Raki Nelson has five catches and a team-leading 112 receiving yards. The Irish completed just four passes in the opener. ND has had little success passmg to tight ends Jabari Holloway and Dan O'Leary, each with just one catch on the season. Senior Isaac Jones is the Boilermakers leading receiver, with 17 receptions for 190 yards ( 11 .2 average) so 1ar this season. Randall Lane averages a team best 16.8 yards per reception (10 catches for 168 yards).
Offensive Line .. NO · · · 

The Irish line had a difficult time protecting Michigan State game. However, the group is experienced, 
returning three starters from last year's team. Tri-captain Mike 
Rosenthal anchors a line that has allowed just one sack and 
has opened holes for an Irish ground attack that is averaging 
199 yards per game. The men in the trenches for Purdue are 
young and only one of them weighs over 300 pounds. The 
Boilermakers start three sophomores and two juniors. 
Defensive Line -Purdue 
The D-line is still a big question mark for the Irish. They rotate eight players, including freshman Tony Weaver, who starts at 

caught three passes for 109 yards against Wisconsin. 
In addition to the tight end, Purdue's running game established itself. as junior .I. Crabtree and redshirt fresh­man Dondre Johnson com­bined to rush for 193 yards and two touchdowns in the 35-7 win against the Golden Knights. 
"The more they touched the ball," said Coaeh .Ioe TiJler, "the more comfort­able they got." 
Defensively, Purdue will have to prepare for a new-look Notre Dame oft'ense. 
After strug­gling last year with quarterback Ron Powlus and a drop-back­passing offense, the Fighting Irish now feature 
The Observer/Kevin Daium 
more option foot­Junior cornerback Michael Hawthorne (11) played a key role in last year's pass coverage as the Irish completed 31 ball, Jed by ath­passes. Purdue's defense will have to prepare for a new look Irish offense that runs the ball more than it throws it. 

letic quarterback Jarious Jackson and running back Autry Denson. Coach Bob Davie and his staff will use the extra week off to analyze films of Purdue's win over Rice Sept. 12. Rice runs a primarily option-based offense, and Davie will be very interested to see how Purdue defended it. 
Being that Purdue just faced an option team two weeks ago, the Boilermakers ~ RECORD: 2-1
.-:=

A.P. NATIONAL RANKING: UNRANKED 
Linetiacfers-No 

The Irish have two of the best in the country in captains Kory Minor and Bobbie Howard, but both have sustained injuries this season. Minor missed MSU with turf toe, but will be back in action for the Irish. Howard and Jimmy Friday are tied for 
second on the team with 16 tackles. Grant Irons played the best game of his career against Michigan. Purdue linebacker Willie Fells leads the team with 31 tackles. 
Secondary ... Purdue 
The Irish are without the services of injured strong safety Benny Guilbeaux, who led the team with four int•~rr<>nt·inr•c:: season. Last weekend, cornerback Mike Hawthorne '"''""'"nl·anl a Daunte Culpepper pass and returned it 65 yards before lateralling to free safety Billy Gustin who took it in for the 
....,..r.. touchdown. Hawthorne has two interceptions and 17 tackles 
'~1;:;11(111 on the season while Gustin has 15. Strong safety Adrian 
• Beasley leads the secondary with 18 tackles. 
Special Teams .. NO 

Hunter Smith is handling the punting duties for the fourth consecutive year and is averaging a shade under 45 yards per punt this season. Jim Sanson is also off to a great start, connecting on all four of his field goal attempts. Driver (23.5 average) and Levy (31.7) present a threat on kickoff returns. Purdue allowed a 98 yard touchdown return to USC and also had a field goal blocked in that same game. Danny Rogers is averaging an impressive 44.4 yards per punt, but kicker Travis Dorsch has made only one of his three field goal attempts. 
Coaching -Purdue 
Offensive coordinator Jim Colletto failed in last year's attempt 
to get a monkey off his back. The Irish looked anr.thing but 
impressive in last season's 28-17 loss to Colletto s former 
team. His replacement at Purdue, Joe Tiller, led the team to 
a 9-3 record. Tiller turned the Purdue program around after 
inheriting a team coached by Colletto that finished 3-8 just one 
season earlier. Bob Davie finished 7-6 in his first season at the 

WoiW....,.ft-l helm, but enjoyed his biggest win when Notre Dame knocked off Michigan. The Irish, however, suffered a let down and lost 
--r
to MSU the following week. 
Overaii•ND 
What all of these match ups "boil" down to is that Notre Dame has something to prove this weekend. They want to avenge 
may have an advantage when defending Notre Dame. 
"It's a step forward for us," said junior middle linebacker Willie Fells. "If we hadn't played Rice we'd still be here learning to play the option. It's a definite plus." 
Notre Dame is 1-1 so far, with a con­vincing home win over defending nation­al champion Michigan to open the sea­son, followed by a one-sided loss at Michigan State in its second game. 
Fells expects to see the Fighting Irish team that blew out the defending nation­al champs, rather than the one that was blown out by the Spartans. 
"They're going to be ready," he said. "I expect them to give us their best." 


defensive end. Brad Williams, Antwon Jones, and Lance Legree last year's embarrassing loss at Purdue and, even more so, have seen extended playing time for the Irish. Notre Dame get another W after getting thrown around in East Lansing. desperately needs a pass rush if they hope to contain Brees. Notre Dame had an extra week to prepare for the game and Defensive end Roosevelt Colvin tops the Boilermakers with four have most of their players back from injuries. Purdue's two tackles for a loss, three sacks, and two blocked field Two­have come over weak opponents -Rice and Central Florida. time Butkus Award nominee Chike Okeafor did not Look for the Irish to come out fired up and play smash-mouth but has returned to the lin recorded 1 
-~-~~-~--------~-----~---~----~....--~----~ 
page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 25, 1998 
I tla ·I 
t II I I Ill
·­



I ll t I I 
Senior captain Bobby Howard: the natural on-field leader 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Spores Editor 
Presence. It's a state of being that commands respect. Great leaders have it. George Washington did. Teddy Roosevelt did. And so does Bobbie Howard. 
If ever a football player spoke softly and carried a big hit, it's Howard, a senior tri-captain and hard-hitting inside linebacker for the Irish. 
"Bobbie's the type of player who plays so hard, and that brings out the best in everybody else that's on the field," said fellow senior linebacker Jimmy Friday. "He's a leader by example. He does all the right things and makes all the right checks." 
Just don't mistake Howard's quiet demeanor for a lack of effort. In two games this season, the 5-foot-10, 232-pound senior has recorded 22 tackles, 14 against the Michigan Wolverines. 
"Bobbie Howard's a good leader because he doesn't talk -he shows it on the field," said junior defensive back Deveron Harper. "He's a quiet type of guy, but when he needs to speak up, he'll say it." 
So when exactly does Howard feel the need to speak up? 
"When we first reported as freshmen, Bobbie didn't say anything to anyone," said Friday. "He was just a real quiet, laid-back person until he got locked out of his room. It was right after his shower, so all he had on was a towel, and he's been talking ever since." 
"At the beginning he was quiet, until we got on the video games," said senior linebacker Joe Thomas, "then he started being outspoken." 
But as a team captain and a standout student, Howard takes his job very seriously. "As a captain, it's up to you to get people around you to play better," said Howard. 
"Bobbie's the kind of guy who goes out and takes care of his business and stays focused," head coach Bob Davie said. "He doesn't put a whole lot of thought into outside things or outside scenarios. He's really a focused young man. He's that way academically, and he's that way football-wise." 
Howard's work ethic and subsequent academic and athletic success earned the linebacker the 1997 Rockne Student-Athlete Award from the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and the Poulan/Weed Eater Independence Bowl Scholarship Award. 
His sense of respon­sibility is a part of Howard's character most easily traced to his family's positive influence. 
"My family, and being around the peo­ple in my community influenced me growing up," said Howard. 
This influence also accounts for Howard's positive attitude on and off the field. Teammates are drawn to him because of his upbeat personality. 
"He's just fun to be around on and off the field," Friday said. 
"Bobbie is really a positive person," Davie said. "It's hard to get Bobbie to say anything bad about anyone. He's a positive person because of the way he's been raised. If you were around his mom and dad you'd see that." 

But how does being a solid citizen translate into lead­ership on the gridiron? 
"(Howard's) play, his attitude make him a good leader; he's always positive," commented junior line­backer Joe Ferrer. "He leads definitely by example. He won't say a lot of things, but when he does say some­thing you really listen. It's like, 'Bobbie said something, so let's do it guys."' 
"On the field (Howard's leadership) is how he plays, and how he gets people where they're supposed to be," explained inside linebackers coach Kirk Doll. "He has a good personality and a good sense of humor, and he's just a quiet person." 
Howard's positive attitude, focus and leadership by example contribute to his presence on the field, yet there's something else that makes the linebacker even more valuable -his intelligence. It's Howard's knack for knowing where to position himself and others to make a big play that sets him above the rest. 


''I'm an intelligent player," said Howard. "I think that's probably my best attribute on the field." 
"He's a smart guy, he knows everything on the field," said junior linebacker Ronnie Nicks. "He's like a coach on the field, everybody looks up to him." 
"The first thing he brings is stability. He's real foot­ball-smart," commented Doll. "Everybody else is more comfortable with him because he can make the checks. I guess it's kind a like having a father-figure out there." 
"On the field he has tremendous wisdom. From a younger player looking up to a veteran, he really is the leader out there," said sophomore rush linebacker 
Grant Irons. 
"He's the person that the whole defense looks to and learns from." 
And Howard is a willing teacher, taking younger players under his wing without hesita­tion. 
"(Howard) was my host on my (official) visit (as a high school senior)," recounted Harper. "He told me what to expect, and how to go about everything academically, how to prepare your­self, and on the field how to stay focused and carry out your assignments. I had a lot of fun, and since he was my host, he got me here, so it worked." 
But don't allow appearances to be deceiving. Howard has faced his share of adversity. 
At 5-foot-10, Howard must deal with an obvi­ous height disadvantage that he, of course, dis­counts as no big deal. 
"I don't think (my height) is a disadvantage because it allows me to play lower to the ground," said Howard. 
"Bobbie makes up for maybe some size limita­tions with his effort and his intelligence, and he is a pretty good athlete," commented Doll. 
Even more difficult was the left knee ligament injury Howard suffered during the opening game of the 1997 season that put him on the shelf for five games. Five games of which the Irish lost four. Howard returned for the final seven games to finish the season third on the team in tackles with 91, an average of13 tackles per game. This year, the knee is still a sore spot for the senior. 
"He's out there during the Michigan State game on a knee that a lot of guys wouldn't have played on," said Davie. "The only thing we did was take him off the punt team, where he was a starter. And it ended up hurting us in that game. But he's gone out and played and practiced everyday with that knee, and I think that says a lot about him." 
These days, it seems the only one who doesn't 
The Observer/Meg Kroener have a lot to say about Bobbie Howard is the Despite his small5-foot-10 frame, Bobby Howard looms large on the field, racking up eight tackles in each of the first two games. quiet leader himself. 
Friday, Seprember 25, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 5 
IN THE 

1998 PURDUE SCHEDULE
SPOTLIGHT 

Aug. 3D at USC L27 ·11
THE IRJSH RECEIVERS/SECONDARY 
Sept. 12 RICE w21-19 iSept•. 19 CENTRAL FLORIDA W35·7
! .I 
&pl. 26 at Notre Dame MINNESOTA .. :"': ~0 
at Wisconsin .17 at Penn State . 24 ILLINOIS •31 IOWA . 7 at Northwestern ;14 at Michigan State ,i.21 INDIANA 

The Observer/Patrick Quigley The Observer/John Daily 
Hitting receivers like Raki Nelson (9) should Deveron Harper and the Irish backfield will keep Purdue's offense guessing all day. be faced with stopping Purdue's passing. 
2ND 

Last year at Purdue, the Irish went to Joe Tiller and the Boilermakers will be 
SEASON AT
the air for 31 completions, the second running a similar plan, though they will most on the all-time list. But the longest rely on quarterback Drew Brees to toss 
PURDUE 

was only for 23 yards, as they only aver­out the big plays, keeping the Irish sec­aged a little over nine yards a reception. ondary spread. Jarious Jackson and the Irish certain­In just three games, Brees has thrown 
Joe TillerBob Davie 
ly will not be as airborne, but look for for 721 yards and six touchdown tosses. 
CAREER RECORD 50-34-1CAREER RECORD 8-7 
the Irish to establish a passing game to Not only will the Irish backfield need 
AT PURDUE 11-4AT NOTRE DAME 8-7 
keep Purdue's secondary spread out. to mind Brees, but more importantly 
AGAINST PURDUE 0-1 
This, coupled with the potentially the receivers. Tiller's attack often calls explosive option that Jackson can com­for a short reception of a couple of 
4STN;~;;~~
mand, and the Irish can keep Purdue yards that the receiver turns into big
ROSTER 

guessing all day long. gains with a strong carry. 
No. Name Pos. Ut. Wt. YRNo. Name Pos. Ill. Wt. YR 
I Donald Winston WR 5-7 152 JR 2 lll!nny Cuilbt.•aux s..c; 6-2 215 SR I Dckt• CouJ.JL'r FS 6-3 221 )R 
2 Chris Clopton RB 5-7 158 so ArnM ll.tttll' QB 6-1 195 FR 
2 Scott Kurz PK/P 6-1 183 FR Kory Minor OLB 6-1 245 SR 3 John Reeves LB l'l-4 228 SR
SPLIT END 
Mike Rose LB 6-1 220 JRA'fonl S,tndl'r> FS 5-11 141 SR 
&·Johnson 
Travis Dorsch I'I K 6-6 200 FR 9-NelsonMalcolm Johnson SE b-5 215 SR 
6 Isaac Jones WR 6..() 197 SR
fanous )clCk~m QB 6-0 2211 SR 
7 Adrian Bcaslcv 55 6-0 193 ]R 8 Gabc Cox . WI< 5-10 191 SR 
Eric Ch.tppdl QB 6-4 225 ]R Anthunv Br.mn.m OLB 5-11 203 ]R 9 Rakl Nl:lson FL 5-11 17!1 fR 
9 Robert Tolbert WR 6-1 20l IR 10 David Edgerton QB 6-2 200 so 10 Antoine Neal DB 5-Y ]9h so Ill Dcvt•ron tlctrpcr CB 5-11 187 )R 
11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 187 )R 
CORNERBACK 12 Tony Fisht•r RB 6-1 202 FR 
11 Michael Hawthorne CB 6-3 193 JR
33-Austln 
12 Mike Scgard QB 6-4 190 FR 14 !J,wid Givens WR 6-0 214 FR 
22·Conard
13 Jimmy l'rid.ty ILn 6-2 236 SR 
12 Sean Malone CB 5-9 170 so 1'l Clifford fcoffL•rsun DB 5-9 165 FR 13 Jim Mitchell QB 6-3 192 FR 


.. 
14 Vinny Sutherland WI< 5-I 0 186 so 16 john Shingler TE 6-1 250 SR 1~ Zdk Kustok QB 6-1 213 so 
15 Drew Brees QB 6-1 204 so 17 llunt<or Smith P 6-2 218 SR 
16 Eric Haddad RB 6-1 228 SR IK )<><'Y G,•th<•rall SE 5-7 172 so 17 Ben Smith 55 6-3 190 FR 
18 Ralph Turner Qn 6-2 IRS FR
19 Jim San~on K 5-9 189 )R 
18 Shane Ryan K S-9 175 }R 21 javin f lunter WR 5-11 172 FR 
20 C.1rlos Pit•rrt.•-Antoint.• LB 6-2 240 FR 
19 R'Kes Starling CB 5-8 172 FR 22 ).1y Vi<kNs Tn 6-0 215 }R 
20 Chris Danit•ls WR 6-3 200 JR 23 Autry Denson Ts 5-lll 202 SR 
21 George Sickels eB 5-10 190 so 24 Ty G<x>de CD 5-11 192 SR 
22 Lamar Conrad DB 5-10 196 )R 25 Tony Driver FS 6-2 214 so 
22 Alex Bunten K 5-9 180 so 2h Le<•l.afayt•tte 55 5-10 198 )R 
22 Alex Tone RB 5-11 205 FR 27 llobbi<• Howard ILB 5-10 :m SR 
RIGHT TACKLE 
79·Roaenlhal 

23 Willie Burough• Ln 5-11 212 SR 76-Teasdakl 
24 Dondre Johnson RB 6-0 207 FR28 Donald Dykeo DB 5-10 IH6 FR 25 Cllff)ackson WR 5-10 177 IR28 Mlkco Gr.1dy FS 5-11 200 )R 
TIGHT END 

26 Danny Rogers P 5--10 203 )R29 Justin Smith CD 6-2 188 so 
87-Hollowav 

27 Henry Bell CB 5-11 177 SR3(1 Rocky Boim,m DB 6-3 222 FR 
86·0'Leary 

28 james Dunnigan CB 5-9 180 FR31 Ericllim.m CB 5-11 179 SR 
29 Bryan jacquay DB 5-7 162 so 29 Montrell Lowe Rll 5-9 185 FR 
32 Tt•rrann• Jlow.ud RB 6-1 181 RB 32 Justin Ml•ko 55 5-11 209 SR 33 )ctmit• Spt.·n~t·r FB 6-l 245 SR 30 Billy Gustin FS 6-2 203 SR 
FLANKER 
31 Tarah Graham RB 5-8 1!!4 SR
33 Phil Sicuso CB 5-11 188 SR 
Ill-Brown 
32 Noble )ones LB 6-1 248 SR
34 Ronnit.• Nicks lLB 6-1 234 )R 
18-Gtrtherall 
33 Da'Shann Austin CB 5-10 175 ]R 35 Jasclnl Vukelich FIJ 6-0 224 so 
35 David Mill<•r K-P 5-11 177 FR 
34 ).Crabtrc>e Rll 5-9 203 }R 
35 Lee Johnson Lll 6-0 222 SR 3il 11m Lynch en 5-9 177 SR 
3h Tom Lopicnski FB 6-2 240 FR 36 Sedrick Brown Rll 6-2 220 FR 37 Todd Stcmla DB 5-11 189 SR37 Ron lsral'i en 6-0 !98 so 37 Kt.•vin Rice SS 6-0 212 SR 38 Brady Doc DB 6-1 177 so 
.. 

39 Cornell Middlcbmok Rn/Lll 6-2 215 FR
38 BrtK."k Willii.tms CU 5-10 189 so 
,i / 

40 Willie Fells LB t>-1 219 )R/~ ,'
J9 Anthony Dt•nmcln OLB 6-1 231 so 
41 Matt Ludwig TE 6-0 247 so 4(1 )cl~m Murr,ly FB 6-1 254 so 
39 Chris l.t>ck SS 5-10 195 JR 
42 Brent Botts DT 6-3 248 so 411 llrmdan l',m,,ll ll.B 5-10 220 }R 
43 Swve Ennis RB 6-11 200 FR 44 Doug Wither. LB 6-2 2411 SR
41 foe l'em·r OLB 6-2 2..11 )R 42 Antwuint• Wl'llington NG 6-0 261 )R 
45 Jeremy Thomas RB 6-0 200 FR 46 Tom Vaughan DB 6-0 1!!4 so4.1 llu~h llulm<os ILB 6-1 212 so 44 Gmnt Irons OLB 6-5 25b so 47 Chris Zurba DE 6-3 257 SR 4X Tim Upshur 1.13 6-2 200 FR
45 }l't.'Y GLUldspt'l'd Fl3 6-0 241 )R 49 Chukie Nwokoric.• DE 6-.3 277 SR
46 K<•vin Donsby Ol.B 6-1 228 so 50 Brian Dinkins DE 6-2 242 so
46 UL•njamin Robinson TE 6-2 241 Sf{ 47 Mikt• McN,,ir FB 6-0 221 FR 51 )oeOdom LIJ 6-1 210 FR 52 Max Miller LB 6-5 240 FR48 Jnhnath,m llt•bt•rt SE 5-11 202 )R 53 David Berch I.n 6-4 215 so49 I<><' Thuma' ILD 6-2 227 SR 55 Ian Allen OT 6-4 265 so'ill David Pavn< OG 6-1 287 SR 5o Chukky Okobi OG 6-2 315 so51 Tyreu !Iarrison LB 6-2 2..18 FR 57 Ray Lee LB 6-1 227 JR53 l.omunl Bryant DE 6-3 2..58 SR 58 Warren Moore DE 6-2 2..58 so
54 Lukt• Pt•tit~out OT 6-b 300 SR 
59 Rosevclt Colvin DE 6-3 239 SR
55 Jimfont.'!'l OG 6-J 295 )R 
60 Andy Standifer LS 6-1 205 so
58 Brt.•ndan O'Cnnnm OG 6-2 292 JR 
61 Steve Turpin C 6-3 279 FR62 Casey Robin OT 6-6 3011 so 63 Mik<• Tribe ILB 5-10 220 IR 
62 Mike Decker DE 6-3 220 FR 63 jim Niedrach C 6-3 273 )RM John Mer.mdl C 6-3 292 IR 64 Seth Morris OL 6-9 3011 FRbh IW lurdan C 6-11 289 so 65 Pete VanderWedt• OT 6-5 305 SR67 )uhn Wa)!ner OT 6-7 3(!0 Sf( 66 Brian Koppen OC 6-6 314 FR
68 M.1tt Br.mncm OT 6-7 295 JR 
67 Greg Dean OL 6-5 3211 JR
bY Mikt• Gandv OG 6-4 2% ]R 70 Tim Riddt.·r· OG 6-7 298 SR 
6/J Kelly Kitchel OL 6-6 290 FR 69 ColbY Rennick DT 6-2 260 FR
71 ft'rry Whmt• OG 6-7 298 SR 
71l Scan.Rufolo DT 6-3 25n FR72 Rv,m Scarnl.1 OL 6-4 Jill FR 73 ,,:n Roehl OL 6-1 287 FR 71 Ttm Schenkel OL 6-2 3(K) FR 72 josh Kirkpatrick C 6-1 274 FR74 RobMowl C 6-5 295 ]R 73 David Cohen OL h-4 24() )R
7h fohn Tt•ctsd,llt• OT 6-5 295 so 
74 Jason Neidigh OL 6-5 250 FR77 Br.td Willi,lms DE 6-5 28~ IR 
75 At1ron Starne~ ex:; fl-3 28h ]I<
78 jnrd.m lll.wk OL 6-5 310 FR 76 joe Webster OL h-6 31)1) FR79 Mik<• Ru!ienlhal OT b-7 300 SR 77 Brandon Gorin OT 6-6 27H so
HI I.t•wi~ I>.1wsnn FL 6-0 185 )R 83 p,,trkk Rt·vnolds WR 5-11 179 FR 
7X Matt Light or 6-4 277 so 79 Gene Muczkowski Ol h-3 290 FR
K4 Gt•r,,ld Mtlr~an TE 6-3 263 FR Ill! AT Simpson WR 6-5 200 FR
8'i Antwon ]ont~ NG 6-J 280 SR 8'i MMk l{ult• WR 6-2 218 SR 
81 Chris Randolph TE t>-5 247 FR 82 David Nugent DT 6-5 278 }RKn IJ.1n O'I<'M\ TE o-5 1.,n IR 83 Alan Ganawav WR 6-0 180 FR87 f<lb,tri llnlh;wav TE t>-3 254 so 
84 R.md.111 L.me · WR 6-1 20h JR
HI! Bobby Brown · Fl 6-3 194 SR 85 Doya I Bu tier TE 6-4 2211 FR89 John J),,y..(lwt•n!o TE 6-J 228 FR 8t> Cortez Milos Wr 5-10 180 FR4(1 l.anct• L<..·~rt•t· NG 6-l 292 IR 87 Rocco Foggio DE h-4 2XO so
91 Nut1h Vr~nllouk-DruckerDE 6-2 24'i IR 
RR jason Loerzcl LH 6-3 2116 FR92 Ad.tm ·nbbl<· K 5-11 183 FR 89 Ttm Stratton TF o-4 27 FR9) Ill Scott DE b-4 282 IR 911 Derrick Williams IJT b-4 297 Fl~94 Andy Wisn,• NG 6-3 285 so 91 Rob Turner DT h-4 21!11 Fl{
9'i Ry.m Rob<"rt> LB 6-1 235 FR 
9J Pete Lougheed TE 6-5 245 FR9h St•,m M.th.m DL b-3 262 FR 95 judy Goatley DF 6-4 252 5o
97 Kurt Vollt•r!t DT b-7 21!11 so 
97 )on Holloway DT 6-4 21!1! )R98 Anthony Weaver DL 6-3 244 m 98 Matt Mitrion<' DT 6-3 281 FR
9H Er~cGia;, DT 6-1 215 }R 
99 Kurt Davi"" DE 6-3 243 so'1'1 )a•on Ching DE 6-3 280 lR 
--~---~--·---­
page 6 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 25, 1998 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Beating Purdue only way Irish can regain tempo 
Irish must show that loss at State was not what this team has to offer 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The "World's Largest Drum" that the Purdue Band will wheel into the stadium may not be the only thing that gets pounded. 
Forget two weeks ago? The Irish were still buzzing after their upset of co­national champion Michigan in the sea­son opener, and the phrase "national champion" was being used to describe outlooks on Notre Dame's season. Michigan State played the spoilers, steal­ing not only the game, but also what the Irish hoped would be a streak that could very well land them at least somewhere atop the AP poll. 
But the beat goes on, and the Irish are now in the position of picking things up after the embarrassment that was Michigan State. If the Irish can't make the correction they so desperately need now, there is a good chance that they'll be off-beat for a great deal longer than just this one game. 
One doesn't have to go further than last year to see that. Ironically, it was the Boilermakers that first threw the Irish off the mark in their 28-17 victory at Ross­Ade Stadium. Despite getting back into the swing of things at the end of the sea­son, the Irish still finished the season off­tempo after a four-game slide that start­ed with Purdue. 
That shouldn't be the case this season. The Irish will host Purdue in Notre Dame Stadium, a playing field that has been more than unkind to the Boilermakers for years. Since 1976, the Irish have taken the steam out of the Boilermakers, beating them 10 consecutive times in South Bend. Joe Tiller and his team will have a lot to fight against if he hopes to be the first Purdue coach to beat Notre Dame twice in row since 1984-85. 
On the other hand, Bob Davie and crew also have a lot to work on if they want to get back in step with the nation­al scene. Despite the win against Michigan, there was plenty of room for improvement on both sides of the foot­ball. Put simply, this was not taken care of and a total lack of execution resulted in the embarrassment at State. 
But it seems too easy to just pass that game off on a lack of execution. A team that played its heart out the week before against Michigan doesn't step out onto the field just a few days later looking like they did. The problem was the Irish play­book looked more like it was scripted by Stephen King than by Bob Davie. 
The terror could continue this weekend 
_ via Tiller's own version of an option attack, especially if the Irish secondary that was, at best, overmatched in man­to-man coverage at State continues to get beaten. Quarterback Drew Brees runs basically the same game as Jarious Jackson has -except his big plays come on horizontal tosses that the backs turn into big yards. A healthy and disciplined secondary is the key to stopping an offense that will attempt to spread them out for gaps. The Irish have experience on their side 

IRISH INSIDER EDITOR: KATHLEEN LOPEZ ASSOCIATE EDITORS: JOEY CAVATO, ALLISON KRILLA ASSISTANT EDITORS: ANTHONY BIANCO, BRIAN KESSLER DESIGN: MARK DEBOY GRAPHICS: PETE CILELLA COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAILY 
when they have the ball. Purdue started the season at USC with seven players making their first starts. Brees is lethal only when the defense gives his receivers a lane from the backfield outwards. Against USC, Brees aver-

Come by our information session for a chance to 
•

w1n a new mountain bike 
AND A CHANCE TO BE THE NEXT STAR AT TRILOGY T E C H N I C A L A N D E N G 1 N E E R I N G Trilogy is building the next great software company. Our goal is to 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 become a $1 billion company before ZOOl. As a result of our growth 
7 P.M. • 9 P.M. objectives, the business opportunities for you are boundless. Depending on you1 interests, you can lead a business unit, pioneer a
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
vertical industry, spin off a subsidiary, ox launch a product line. At 
ROOM 230 
Trilogy, your options are unlimited. 
Bu s 1N E s s A N D 0 1 H E R M A J 0 Rs Come to Out' information session and drop off a resume to register to win a new mountain bike. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 
7 P.M... 9 P.M. 
TRILOGY 

CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 6034 W. Courtyard Dl. Austin, TX 78730 ROOM 206 t 512.425.3400 f 5U.794.8900 
www..trilogy.rom 

Trttotv lJ o eqtallipJiflrtrutity employ~!. 
aged only 4.8 yards per passing attempt. 
As for the Jackson-inspired option, the Irish must toss plays from a truly mixed bag in order to advance. But the Irish will certainly not be going to the air as often as they did last year. Yet with strength in their running game, the Irish must begin to take advantage of a spread defense to get the huge receptions that produce wins. 
Banging out a win and molding a new outlook is key for the Irish this weekend, especially after the morally defeating contest at Michigan State. Both Davie and Tiller are second-year coaches in very similar predicaments. From last year's finish, Tiller was able to take a team that hadn't won more than four games a season in the previous couple of years to a 9-3 Big Ten competitor. 
Now, Davie must do the same in a pro­gram with a rich tradition of winning. The Irish have the instruments to play; now they must get back into rhythm. 
...------------­
Friday, September 25, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 7 
THE IRISH INSIDER LOOKS AT
EYE ON 
THIS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
THE NATION 
FOOTBALL GAMES 
No. 2 Nebraska hosts Washington 
Huskies, Cornhuskers face off in battle to remain undefeated 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
Nnbraska welcomes tho return of running baek DeAngelo Evans and quarterback Bobby Newcombe as they take on ninth­ranknd Washington in a battle of undefeat­ml teams with national title aspirations. The Cornhuskers defeated the Huskies last year 27-14 and forced Washington quarter­back Brock Huard out of the game with a sprainnd ankle. 
Dnfnnding national co-champion Nnbraska brings a 17 -game overall and 44­game home winning streak into Saturday's contost. lronieally. Washington was the last tnam to defnat them at home in 1991. As usual, Uwy rely on a run-oriented offense which utilizes their mammoth otrensive line and spendy running backs to their full advantage. 
Evans rl!turns after missing all of last year with a recurring abdominal injury, while a knee injury sidelined him for the first throe games of this year. First-year starter Newcombe has missed the last two games with a slight tear in his left knee. The defense has improved as of late, after surrendering more than 500 yards in a sea­son-opnning win over Louisiana Tech. 
On the other end of the spectrum. Washington has a pass-oriented offense led by Huard. Huard struggled in his last outing against BYU, only completing 16 of 33 pass­es for 178 yards, but is still considered one of the nation's top signal callers. The Huskies running attack has been non-exis­tent thus far. averaging just over 100 yards a game. Washington bounced back defen­sively against BYU with six sacks and hold­ing running back Honney Jenkins to 32 yards, after allowing 38 points to Arizona State in the season opener. 
Unless Washington develops a running game against Nebraska, they could be in for a long afternoon. Huard is an exceptional passnr. but evidenced by last week, will have trouble putting up good numbers 
without a balanced offense. 
TEAM 

1. Ohio St. (64) 2. Nebraska (1) 3. UCLA (2) 4. Tennessee (2) 
5. 
Kansas St. (2) 

6. 
LSU 

7. 
Penn St. 

8. 
Florida 

9. 
Washington 

10. 
Florida St. 

11. 
Virginia 

12. 
Syracuse 

13. 
Georgia 

14. 
Wisconsin 

15. 
Colorado 

16. 
Arizona 

17. 
TexasA&M 

18. 
usc 

19. 
West Virginia 

20. 
Oregon 

21. 
Virginia 

22. 
Alabama 

23. 
Air Force 


23. Notre Dame 
25. Missouri Others Recieving Votes 
AP Photo 

After sitting out the past two games with a slight muscle tear in his left knee, first-year starter Bobbie Newcombe will call the signals for the Corn huskers against the Huskies Saturday. 
These two SEC rivals possess two of the top offensive-minded head coaches in all of college football in Hal Mumme and Steve Spurrier. Florida's "Fun-n-Gun" passing attack has been well-known throughout the '90's, while Mumme has taken the country by storm the last two years with his wide open offense. Junior quarterback Tim Couch has been the leader of the Kentucky offense and has re-energized Kentucky fans with his impressive credentials. 
Florida looks to rebound after losing to Tennessee last week in overtime. Their offense turned the ball over four times to increase their turnover ratio to -10, the worst in all of Division 1-A. Quarterback Jesse Palmer has 10 touchdown passes and four interceptions on the year and last week rotated with Doug Johnson on every play. 
Defensively, Florida possesses one of the 
quickest units in 
the country and 
played well in 
defeat last week. 
Kentucky's 3-0 shootout like last year, where Florida won 55-28. Florida .still possesses one of the most talented teams in the country and will look to get back into the title hunt with a good showing against Kentucky. 

This East Coast-West Coast matchup fea­tures two of the most tradition-laden teams in the country. USC is off to a 3-0 start under new head coach Paul Hackett while Florida State lost only their second ACC game in history two weeks ago to North Carolina State. Last year's game was the season opener for both teams, with the Seminoles winning 14-7 on a 4th-quarter touchdown. 
USC looks to break Florida State's string of 35 consecutive home victories on Saturday. This is the first road game of the year for the Trojans after home victories over Purdue, San Diego State and Oregon State. Wide receiver and kick returner H. Jay Soward has had a tremendous year thus far and is one of the most explosive players in the country, evidenced by his career average of a touchdown every six times he touches the ball. 
Mike Van Raaphorst has been solid this season at quarterback, with freshman Carson Palmer also seeing some action. Two pre-season All-Americans lead the charge on defense. Cornerback Daylon McCutcheon is a four-year starter and one of the best cover corners in the nation, while linebacker Chris Oaibome is the team leader in tackles and has had two interceptions on the season. 
Florida State's explosive offense returned last week against Duke after struggling mightily against North Carolina State. Junior Peter Warrick is widely considered to be one of the top three receivers in the country and has 16 catches and four touch­down receptions already this season. Tailback Travis Minor has averaged 107 yards per game and is the best FSU running back since Warrick Dunn. The big question mark is at quarterback, where Chris Weinke threw for six interceptions against North Carolina State, but bounced back last week with 241 yards passing and three touchdown passes. 
USC has their best start in years, but this week will be a good measuring stick to see how good they really are. Florida State looks to have rebounded from their crush­ing defeat to North Carolina State and a vic­tory over the Trojans will put them on track to once again be considered in the national title picture. 
IRISH 
EXPERTS 

Kathleen Lopez Sports Editor 
(3-5) NOTRE DAME WASHINGTON FLORIDA FLORIDA STATE 

Joey Cavato Associat(: Sports Editor 
(3-5) NOTRE DAME WASHINGTON FLORIDA FLORIDA STATE 

Allison Krilla 
Associate Sports Edicor 
(4-4) 
NOTRE DAME NEBRASKA KENTUCKY FLORIDA STATE 

Anthony Bianco Assistant Sports Editor 
(3-5) NOTRE DAME WASHINGTON FLORIDA SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Assistant Sports Editor 
(3-5) NOTRE DAME NEBRASKA FLORIDA FLORIDA STATE 

Brian Kessler Assistant Spans Editor 
(3-5) NOTRE DAME WASHINGTON FLORIDA FLORIDA STATE 


Kentucky 101, Michigan 38, North Carolina State 34, Boston College 31, 
and Arkansas in 

Arizona State 25, Brigham Young 25, Tulane 20, Utah 20, Oklahoma State 
the next three

9, Texas Tech 9, Purdue 7, Colorado State 6, Miami (OH) 6, Michigan State 4, Arkansas 3, Marshall 3, Minnesota 3, Washington State 3, Miami 
weeks. This 

(FL) 2, Mississippi State 2, Auburn 1, Baylor 1. 
should be a 

RECORD POINTS 
start is their best 

3-0 1,744 since 1984 and they lead the nation in total 
3-0 1,601 
2-0 1,562 
offense and pass­

2-0 1,542 
ing offense and

3-0 1,522 
are second in 

2-0 1,389 
scoring. Couch is 

3-0 1,255 
coming off a sub­

2-1 1,242 
par performance 
against Indiana,

2-0 1,217 but has put up huge numbers 
2-1 1,043 
3-0 1,011 
this year with

2-1 981 
1,171 yards pass­

3-0 930 
ing and 13 touch­

3-0 783 
downs in his first 

3-0 714 
three wins. The 

3-0 684 Wildcats have run the ball well this year, averaging 
2-1 613 
3-0 604 
4.1 yards a carry

1-1 538 
and helping take

3-0 22 
the pressure off of 

3-0 NR 
Couch. 

2-0 24 
This is the first 3-0 NR 
SEC game of the 
year for Kentucky, 

1-1 23 
and it doesn't get much easier as they travel to LSU 

2-1 21 
~--------­
page 8 The Observer ·IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 25, 1998 

The Observer/Meg Kroener 
THE FIGHTING IRISH 
OF NOTRE DAME 
VS,

-
THE BOILERMAKERS 
OF PURDUE 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER26, 1998 NOTRE DAME STADIUM NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
1:30 P.M. 

I 
I ! .. 
r 





