--~------~..~----~------~------------~------~------------~~------------~-­

Tuesday, February 17, 1998• Vol. XXVII No. 93 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY' 
Tailback Rego leaves ND after 'problem' 

By BRAD PRENDERGAST home in New York, Rego con­Editor-in-Chief firmed that he left the University "about a week ago." 
As the result of an unspeci­"I have had some personal fi e d " person a I prob I e m , " problems that I can't comment freshman tailback Cooper on," he said. Rego is no longer enrolled at Rego declined to offer any the University. other details surrounding his 
Reports in recent weeks had departure. indicated that Rego's status on University administrators the football team and at the declined to comment on the University was in question, nature of Rego's departure or because of an off-the-field on whether he had been asked incident. to leave the University by the 
Reached last night at his administration. 
"That's something that I can't talk about," said Dennis Moore, director of Notre Dame Public Relations, even whether or not it exists." 
Patricia O'Hara, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, cited a long-standing policy of her office in declining to comment. 
"The Office of Student Affairs has never acknowl­edged the existence of discipli­nary matters or the outcome of disciplinary matters," O'Hara said. 
Head coach Bob Davie and running backs coach Desmond Robinson could not be reached for comment last night. 
Rego was named to the Parade all-America team and the USA Today all-America second team during his senior year at St. Joseph High School in Montvale, N.J. He was also the Gatorade player of the year in New Jersey as a senior. 
He did not play a game at tailback last fall. 
Science Web site to feature ND research 
Special to The Observer 
Science and engineering research at the University of Notre Dame will be featured Feb. 12-22 on the World Wide Web site of The Science Coalition. 
Founded in 1995, The Science Coalition is an alliance of more than 400 organizations -. including Notre Dame and 73 other leading universities ­dedicated to sustaining the federal gov­ernment's historic commitment to U.S. leadership in science and engineering research. 
Notre Dame's highlights include four recent research breakthroughs -the discovery of the fossilized skeleton of what may be the largest Tyrannosaur on record, the first .evidence of a new sub-nuclear particle, the first demon­stration of a transistorless approach to computing, and the discovery of the physical phenomenon at work in the ability of granular particles to hold their shape. 
In addition, brief descriptions are pro­vided of five centers of research excel­lence -the Vector· Biology and Parasitology Program, the Center for Environmental Science and Technology, the Hadiation Laboratory, the Structure Dynamics and Control/Earthquake Engineering Laboratory, and the Hank University of Notre Dame Environmental Hesearch Center. 
Numerous links are provided on the Web site for access to more information on the individual projects as well as the highlighted centers and labs and the University's research office. 

By FINN PRESSLY News Writer 

Capt. James Wetherbee, space shuttle commander and Notre Dame graduate, returned to campus on Monday to meet with students, faculty, and administrators regarding his experiences with space exploration. 
In his most recent flight, his fourth space shuttle mission, Wetherbee commanded the Atlantis to a success­ful docking with the beleaguered Russian space station, Mir. 
In addition to his duties in space, Wetherbee is deputy director of the Johnson Space Center. 
He has also .addressed Congress in regards to the possible safety haz­ards that face American astronauts aboard Mir. 
Though Russian aero­nautic equipment is often criticized in the press, Wetherbee stated 
. ' 
the Russmns have plenty of experience in building spacecraft, and that the Mir space station is "well designed and sturdy." He pointed out that an infe­rior space station would have simply "come apart at the seams" following a collision such as the one that rocked Mir last June. 
Wetherbee also dis­cussed the progress of space exploration, and addressed two points that he felt would greatly help the space program. 
The first involves the upcoming construction of the International Space Station. With a permanent foothold in space, scientists would be able to conduct much longer experiments. In addition, the added room would allow more research projeets to be carried out simultane­ously. 
Second, Wetherbee expressed the need for a reduction in the cost of sending matter into space. At the present time, it costs approxi­mately $10,000 to send one pound of matter into low-level orbit. If the cost were lowered to $2,000 per pound, it would allow many more research institutions and universities to send their experiments into space. 
.When asked about the recent announcement that John Glenn will return to space, Wetherbee expressed his optimism that Glenn will be able to withstand the rigors of space travel. 
"He is in great shape for a 76-year-old man," he said, also adding that 
see SPACE I page 4 

One ticket to run for RHA Executive Board 
By ARIANN BUTLER News Writer 
Only one ticket has decided to run in the Saint Mary's Resident Hall Association elections on Wednesday_ 
The ticket consists of Gina Guerreso for president, Mary Blumreich for vice president, Kathy Hademacher for secre­tary, and Jennifer Appleton for treasurer. 
According to Barbara Nolan, who is in charge of the elec­tions. the Guerreso ticket will still need to attain 51 percent of the vote in order to be elected. If this is not achieved then a run-off election will be required. 
The tiekct has been running its campaign under the acronym, "GHAB." The plat­form for the ticket includes creating more social events in the residence halls. Events would include weekend aetivi­ties, sponsoring informal dances, investigating a change in weekend quiet hours and getting residence halls to work in conjunction with Dalloways. 
The ticket also hopes to increase hall spirit by estab­
see ELECTION I page 4 
Looking for a good few college students ... 

~---~----­


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 17, 1998 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Carpe Diem 

I remember freshman Sarah Dylag
year so clearly that I Wire Editor 
swear it happened yes­
terday. It was the time 
when everything stretched out in front of 
me -my whole life still waiting to happen. 
Or so I thought. 
It seemed, then, that each moment was 
not as significant as the whole picture of 
where I came from and where I might be 
headed. There were a million things that I 
wanted to do and a million years in which 
to do them all. College was going to last for­
ever and I could easily waste time being 
afraid. 
Then, I blinked. 
Now, I'm staring Junior Parent's Weekend 

right in the face. I'm on the verge of ending 
half of my college career and I've been on a 
wild, whirling ride since freshman year. 
Things have constantly been changing. 
Looking back now, I realize that things 

aren't as endless and everlasting as they 
sometimes seem. And fear is a stupid 
excuse we all use to avoid making the most 
of the present moment. 
But the present moment is all you have. 
The..truth is, everything you are and 

everything you are going to be converges in 
this moment because tomorrow, or even in 
the next second, everything is going to 
change. 
Life is not about waiting for things to hap­

pen. It's not something that happens to you. 
Ifthere's something you want and you have 
the means to achieve it right now, then you 
should chase it, setting all fears and reser­
vations aside. If you don't have the means, 
then you have to find them. 
Sure, chasing what you want means 

putting your heart and hopes at risk. Sure. 
you may find yourself plagued by nagging 
doubts and fears. But at least you tried. At 
least you aren't still waiting for things to 
happen. And if all else fails, at least you can 
look to the wonderful things going on right 
now, no matter how small, and be thankful 
for them. 
We are each active participants in this 

complicated thing called life. When the sun 
rises in a blur of orange and purple, we are 
the ones who open our eyes to see it. When 
we laugh with our friends and when we let 
them see us cry, we are the ones whu.drop 
our guard, open our hearts, and find some­
thing beautiful. That's why this moment­
this second -contains all of the possibili­
ties we can imagine, if we only summon up 
the courage within ourselves to act on 
them. 
Right now. 
I think Ernest Hemingway said it better 

than I ever could in his novel "For Whom 
the Bell Tolls." Hemingway wrote,"... but in 
the meantime, all the life you have is today, 
tonight, tomorrow, today, tonight, tomor­
row over and over again (I hope} ... and so 
you had better take what time there is and 
be very thankful for it." 
Life is about living right now. Whatever 

you're planning or thinking about-do it, 
say it, chase it and don't be afraid. Instead 
of worrying about what might happen or 
feeling sad about the things you can't do, 
live this moment for the happiness it can 
bring you. Right now, this moment is all 
that is real. And if you blink, you will cer­
tainly miss it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Production  
Anne Hosinski  Andrea Jordan  
Colleen McCarthy  Kathleen Lopez  
Sean Smith  Viewpoint  
Accent  Eddie Llull  
Andrea Jordan  Spencer Stefko  
Joel Cummins  Graphics  
Bridget Rzezutko  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Kathleen Lopez  Shannon Dunne  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday excepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associarcd Press. All rcproducrion rights arc reserved. 
come out of each department's budget. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather*torecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
';-.___..-_,.......................................... H L 
Tuesday 
44 37 Wednesday ~ 42 35 
' ' ' ' ' 

Thursday ~ 47 33 
''''' 

Friday) \ I ~--<46 33
,,,,~. 
s ' 

Satu~day "' />~ 44 34 
~...5'"\~···· '''''y/J "':._:.... 

4,Q,~cQQ.Qi1 ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl;rrles S~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraptucsNel 

Gun shots break up charity event at UVA 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Pleasants said. 
Two students were assaulted late Outside, shortly afterwards, shots Friday night when gun shots were were fired, though "no one knows heard outside of Beta Theta Pi frater­who fired the shots," he said. nity house on Maury Avenue. He added that the police arc sure 
The incident occurred during a the people who caused the problem party at the Beta house, which had were not University students. been rented for a charity event. But non-University students should Charlottesville police officials said not have been admitted in the first­they do not know why the shots were place, according to Inter-Fraternity fired or what prompted the incident. some perceived to be gun shots." Council president Chris Jeffries. 
According to the city police report, "There was some confusion and "The house has to follow IFC poli­"two shots from an undetermined some people were scared. [Inside the cies and regulations when renting out house] people were running around,"
direction," were heard when the their houses," he said. police officers arrived on the scene. she said. "Personally, I was under a Each group that wishes to rent out The report described the scene as table. I was trying to figure out what a house is required to sign a contract­chaos with people running from the to do. I just wanted to be able to get that states the standards of conducts, house. home in one piece." or general policies and regulations of 
Paris Smothers, a first-year college Charlottesville Police Sgt. Gary the University, Jeffries said. 
student who was in the house, said Pleasants said the police report stated Beta vice president Ryan Jacoby she was uncertain of what was hap­that the "OJ cut the music off," mak­said the event was not sponsored by pening. ing some people at the party angry. the fraternity and was for charity.Angry party attendees then pro­
"There was chaos," Smothers said. "If you didn't [have a student ID] it ceeded to break the DJ's records,
"People heard a loud noise, which was more expensive." 
• INDIANA UNIVERSITY  • UNiVERSITY OF SOUTH FlORHJA  
Resolution examines pro-life funding  USF to suspend two fraternities  
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.  TAMPA, Fla.  
An IU Student Association resolution to fund pro-choice  Two fraternities have been temporarily suspended from  
activities is the center of a controversy that might define  campus following a Feb. 1 altercation at the Campus  
IUSA's place in political expression on campus. The reso­ Recreation Center. The Lambda Chi Alpha and Sigma Chi  
lution calls for funding that would reimburse the Women's  fraternities were deactivated Wednesday following a deci­ 
Student Association for money it spent on Roe vs. Wade  sion by Neil Cohen, assistant director for student activities.  
anniversary events in January. IU Students for Life is  The organizations will lose the privileges granted to an orga­ 
opposing the resolution. In a letter encouraging IUSA rep­ nization registered with the Office of Student Activities until  
resentatives to vote against the resolution, IU Students for  Aug. 7, the final day of the summer semester. "This is the  
Life wrote, "We urge [IUSA] to remain neutral on abortion  university's way of saying we're not registering you anymore  
or begin allocating similar funds for pro-life activities."  and we're not working with you," Cohen said. The fraterni­ 
The funds would come from the Grass Roots Initiative  ties have until Wednesday to appeal the decision, but the  
Fund. IUSA Treasurer Jen Yocum, a senior, said GRIF is  presidents from both groups were noncommittal about their  
self-generated by IUSA through fundraising and is intend­ plans Thursday evening. "The university has handed down  
ed for activities, such as political rallies, that do not meet  the decision through Neil Cohen, and we're working through  
the guidelines for other funding. "People are debating  it," said Jeff Farrier, president for Lambda Chi Alpha. "''ll  
whether or not we should fund public debate, but that was  talk more on Sunday. I need to talk to everyone." Sigma Chi  
settled when GRIF was created," said senior Lucas  president Heath Golub said he is seeking the advice of all the  
McGregor, IUSA senator and WSA member.  people involved before taking further action.  
• COLORADO UNIVERSITY  • UNIVERSITY OF ILUI\WIS-CHAMPAIGN  
Toxins found on CU campus  Condom switch upsets student body  
BOULDER, Colo.  CHAMPAIGN, Ill.  
Discovering "unknowns" is the stuff of higher education.  Behind the clerk sitting at the desk at McKinley Health  
But "unknowns" on the CU campus has had another and  Center rests a brown box with gr.easy edges and several  
much more sinister meaning. It refers to drums, bottles  bags of defective condoms. Next to that box is another  
and other containers of suspected chemicals without  one, full of safe condoms which are offered to University  
labels identifying the contents. When CU's Environmental  students. Since McKinley made the brand switch from  
Health and Safety Division declared an amnesty on  Sheik to Premium Blue condoms, some students have dis­ 
unknowns, about 700 such containers were "discovered."  approved ­so much so that they are returning the packs  
A mobile laboratory was brought in, and the contents  along with complaint forms. According to a McKinley stu­ 
were identified and shipped to disposal sites. The tab for  dent worker, students who obtain condoms from McKinley  
the entire task came to about $25,000. Before the  often inspect a few for leaks before using them. If they  
amnesty, each of those containers would have had to have  find any problems they will elect not to use them rather  
been picked up and shipped to a laboratory, and the cost  than putting their lives at risk. This is where the "defec­ 
would have been as high as $1,500 per container-or as  tive" box comes in. All defective condoms must be placed  
much as a million dollars total. The money would have  in this box; later they are reported to McKinley's pharma­ 

cy. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 17. 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  49  45  Denver  37  26  Orlando  74  65  
Baltimore  40  34  Fargo  38  31  Phoenix  62  49  
Boston  35  24  Honolulu  81  68  Reno  44  27  
Columbus  45  40  Las Vegas 56  42  Seattle  52  38  
Dallas  53  42  Memphis  54  48  Syracuse  38  26  

_.,.. -_ ­
-......... ~...._......_.. ....... ................ :-.. . ..... ..
-....--~ _, 
Tuesday, February 17, 1998 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 

E
o·:tl(o N • -o::t"' 
l • ,. d ""% t ;;~:rt·.. •
0 0 0. 0:,..
1no con Innes evas a Ion 
Associated Press 

SACRAMENTO. Calif. After a weekend break that included a little sunshine. a 
0 
new El Niiio'"enhanced storm rol~!jd ashq(e M<>~d~y witll. ~a~~~tni~!i~J .. for .!t;$ooddoe~,, 
And as many as four more storll1S could strike Northern California this week. 
..This year is definitely making a run and is on pace to certainly catch up withthe 
0 
0

wettest year in history. •gz;. 83," said James Bailey, assis­tant chi~f of the state Flood 
00

Operations Center, ). 
..... 

"It would appear at this 
time, if all the quan.tity of around Cliristmas. precipitation that is forecast California measures annual comes: through Sun~l).Y, it:' .rainfallin a ·~water year" looks like i~ co~l4 b~ the sec~,·::'.'beginning Oct. lo and most of ond wettest week ~r the i the year's rain falls during year.0 Bailey ~~;!~d. . ••• the winterY 
00
6 

ln l982j..~~f! ~h~~)ll~ 00 o0 °El.:,,,."'Ba~J.~y> said eight.,~tat~Niiioc~~~n()Jli~:g~l) ~a~ first ;wa~"~·~.;.mea~P,..til}g ·o·st~tt9 n.s 
identified;!Gtihfornia had 
twic~,.~tso usual number of winterstorm~~o.o.o 
0 ·····0· . 0 0

During au El Nino.00 warm waternormally situated off Australia sloshes eastward to thf},,.west .co51st of South Am.erica. addiJ:}g heat energy to weather systems. It was named for the Spanish words for'b<J,bY J~~-p:s beq~q~~.Jl.o.. usually hits s.outh America>·' north of Sacramento are a1readyo.sbowingl85 percent of a normal y~,@:r and ~Y ...$he end of the week they¢ould 

''0
surpass200 percent. 0 
0 
This week's storms were predicted .to he cold ones, producing snow at low eleva~ tions in the mountains and producing relatively little runoff. n,::<
0 
ii\J'Wi+ki.'i.+i 


Today., Tuesday., February 17., 1998 
For time and location of meeting., call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan., C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude., C. S.C. 
All Meetings are private and. confidential. 

Students unhappy with spring break tour group 
The Daily Northwestern (Norrhwestern) 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
When Abby Roesch planned her Spring Break for last year, she said she never considered that she would be forced to rough it in Cancun, Mexico. 
"I ended up having to sleep on the beach for the first night and carry my luggage around with me," said Roesch, a junior. 
Roesch arranged the trip through Surf and Sun Travel, one of many companies that provide travel packages to pop­ular destinations. When Roesch arrived in Cancun, she found that she had been bumped from her hotel reservations and the company was unable to place her anywhere for the first night of her trip. 
Junior Courtney Relihan experienced similar difficulties with Surf and Sun Travel dur­ing last year's spring break. Relihan said the company was irresponsible and inaccurate from the start, confusing both billing and ticketing informa­tion. 
"They were an awful, awful company," she said. "I felt that the company from the begin­ning wasn't very up front about anything." . 
Relihan received her plane tickets the morning of her departure, and the plane arrived in Cancun four hours late. The company had over­booked the hotel and Relihan spent the first evening of her vacation traveling among hotels looking for vacancies. Finally, she and her 25 com­panions were given cots in the lobby of the hotel she had orig­inally booked. Surf and Sun Travel promised 0 them upgrades in compensation, but never followed through, she said. 
However, Shawn Andreas, president of Surf and Sun Travel, said that the company had no dishonest·intentions. He said that Surf and Sun is "the largest tour operator in Cancun," sending 20,000 stu­dents to the resort town this March. 
Andreas said that the prob­lems Northwestern students encountered last year were due in part to timing. NU's spring break fell on the busiest week of spring travel and coincided with the Roman Catholic reli­gion's Holy Week, which many Mexicans celebrate. The timing made making hotel reserva­tions difficult, but Andreas did not deny that the company was at fault. 
''I'm not trying to pass the blame to the hotels," he said. "It's our contract and our responsibility." 
Andreas added that the com­pany makes every"effort to compensate travelers whose plans are changed. Those stu­dents bumped from hotels are moved to properties of equal or greater value, he said, and Surf and Sun offers vouchers for free, additional travel. 
This year's official Associated Student Government spring break trip to the Bahamas was also scheduled by way of a company package deal, said Roxanne Ong, ASG vice presi­dent of student services. The package, which is being offered by Student Break Express for $499, includes round-trip air­fare, accommodations, and special discounts and offers on entertainment and dining. 
Ong said the committee involved in planning the trip has been thorough and cau­tious in dealing with the com­pany. Since fall quarter, the committee has researched all aspects of the package, double checking arrangements with contacts in the Bahamas and with the Better Business Bureau. Ong said that Student Break Express's enthusiasm in working with ASG has also assured her of the company's viability. 
"(Student Break Express) was extremely eager to work with us," she said. "It makes us more confident to work with someone who's constantly fol­lowing up." 
While Ong said she feels cer­tain of the company's reliabili­ty, she urged students to avoid package deals whenever possi­ble and to plan trips them­selves. 
"It really hones your survival skills," she said. "Going through a company is just a cheap luxury. And sometimes you get screwe~ over and that's not right." 

~inniQtn' s ............_ttr,<li G-ras ~LLt 
• 0
Warm up your body and fill up with "Antifreeze" Tuesday Night at Finnigans Events will begin at 7:OOpm 
~------------------------------------. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 1 7, 1998 
See news happening? Call The Observer at 1-5323 
New Year resolutions? #1 Get in shape. #2 Be healthy We've got the answer! 

HEALTH 
BAR 
Located at 23 & lr~wood. In ScblotDky's DelL Next to Blockbuster. Ph. 143-9272 (www.juiceojava.com) 
Associated Press Deborah Runkle •. a senior program associ:: ate who will run the project, said she expects PHilADELPHIA (AP) it will be used in 12 to 20 cases. · · · 
Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer is . "Judges will prabably use this in cases that cautiously endorsjng a movement among are oitt of the ordinary, where they don't judges to appoint neutral experts to help ·think the normal means of getting scientific them sort through contentious scientific evi-. expertise is helpful," she said. dence; but he advises against overdoing the Rtmkle said the program will find experts practice. · ·. · . . ·. · .·• ·.. ·.· .· · by contacting scientific organizations and uni-
A few judges( dl}.unted hy cases hinging on · versjties, ·searching computer databases and highly technical . scientific issu.es and. some~ . tapping into "the old-boy·network.~ times clouded by dubious expert testimony. ..We Will be flexible," she said. have named indepemlerit experts to help sep-Judges have struggled with decisions on 
·arate solid evidence from junk. what information to let into cases involving 
.Breyer on Monday told a meeting of the scientific disputes -and what to throw out ­American Association for the Advancement of since· the Supreme Court's so-'called Daubert · Science that he welcomes the organization's decision in 1993. · offer of a pilot program to help federal judges · That ruling gave judges wider latitude in find neutral experts. · sorting through evidence of varying scientific 
However. in a news conference after his validity. · speech, Breyt)r cauti(med against making too As Breyer put it Monday, judges have a much of his comments on outside scientific ·· legal responsibility to act as gatekeepers. "not help. .··. . · • . <.to resolve the ~cientifi~:; .matter but to keep 
..···.''That isn'ta cure~all, .andit can't be rised ·• ''Unsound, urinelpf'ul~ unreliable information .. widely,"ite said. · '~i· . . · .. >.. .. away from thejury)' The AAAS program Will begin as soon as . Breyer noted that the Supreme Court has •• the organization.tini~hes securing a founda:,;,Jong.t&Ued.on :arnicus ¢uria~" brief$, whiCh 


· ~i2~s~~~1}~·.. ~o.··pay_ for•.. !.~+;~~;-· ~i~lH~~,;.;!"e£tl0~ ;::;::;:tr:;'J:ti~:~stt1ri~o~;:t:;!~~~ ~nd others·to 
• SIERRA lEONE 

Fighting plagues African country 
Associated Press standing among a hundred or Freetown now faces roaming so other refugees in the crowd­vigilante gangs, widespreadCONAKRY, Guinea ed yard of Sierra Leone's hunger and the threat of dis­
There were six of them when embassy in Conakry, the capital ease spread by exposed and they forced their way through of neighboring Guinea. "I don't rotting corpses. terrified, jostling crowds know how I'll find her." Relief agencies said Monday toward a packed boat at Kamara is just one among the that the emphasis must shift Freetown's port. tens of thousands of Sierra toward helping residents get 
But as the small wooden craft Leoneans who have fled their food and medical help, while 
pulled away from the artillery homes since fighting broke out holding at bay angry crowds and gunfire tearing at Sierra on Feb. 5, when a Nigerian-led bent on settling scores with the Leone's capital, Adame Kamara West African intervention force junta. A mass effort is also looked at her children huddled attacked to drive out the coun­needed to clean up the city and around her and suddenly real­try's ruling junta. bury the war dead. 
ized one was missing. Within 10 days, the interven­The toll of the fighting is still 
Ten-year-old Fatima was tion force had largely succeed­being added up. At least 118 somewhere back on shore in ed. The city is under their con­people were killed, most of the crowd, lost in the chaotic trol and ousted President them civilians. At least 700 exodus. Ahmed Tejan Kabbah, forced more were injured and large
"I don't know where she is," from power in a bloody May parts of the city were left in Kamara said a few days later, coup, is preparing to return. ruins. 
Space 
continued from page 1 
Glenn's excellent physical con­dition will protect his body from the cardiovascular stress caused by space flight. 
Wetherbee received a bach­elor's degree in aerospace engineering from Notre Dame in 1974. He served as a naval aviator from 1975 until 1984, when he was selected for the 
Election 
continued from page 1 
lishing hall mascots and col­ors and hosting an inter-hall festival which would include a week-long competition between the five halls. In addition, the ticket hopes to increase attendance at sport­ing events with free food and raffles as well as having hall events during Saint Mary's pride day. 
Their platform also includes: establishing an RHA newslet­ter, a big sister program which would pair upper class women with first year stu­dents, and a first year survival session. The ticket hopes to implement these changes as astronaut candidate program. He expects his next mission will be in conjunction with the construction of the International Space Station. 
One of Wetherbee's goals in coming to Notre Dame was to emphasize to students the critical importance of the material that they will learn here. 
"The things that [students] are learning, they will use all throughout their future," said Wetherbee. 
well as keeping other tradi­tions such as the all school formal, little sibs weekend and involvement in residence hall conferences. 
"We have a lot of new ideas that we'd like to implement if elected as well as keeping up with the traditional ones. We invite the residents to come forward to us with positive and negative feedback because that's who we repre­sent," said Gina Guerreso, regarding the goal of the tick­et if elected to the RHA offices. 
The RHA elections with be held on Wednesday on the McCandless side of the dining hall. The reason for the change in location of voting is the dining hall-sponsored win­ter Olympics festivities. 

The perfect meal substitute! 

PEACE CORPS 
Information Session Tuesday, February 17 Center for Social Concerns 6:00p.m. 
Information Tables February 16-17 Hesburgh Library Lobby Interviews will be conducted at Career Planning and Placement. Call1-5200 . 
.~,~~ (~ (800) 424-8580 ~ www.peacecorps.gov 
Our campus is located in the heart of the nation's capital, just a few blocks from the White House and the World Bank. 
Summer Programs Offering over 500 courses hom May through August 
High School Programs Young Women's Leadership Program 
International Programs International Human Rights Law at Oxford Tropical Marine Ecology, Bahamas International Environmental Policy Management and Global Marketing, Australia International Business and Tourism Studies, Costa Rica Education and Culture, Vietnam Media and International Affairs, London and Belfast Paleo-anthropology Field Program, China International Relations. Budapest 
Special Progran•s in Washington, D.C. Women's Entrepreneurship Program Summer TESOL Institute Field Study in Historical Archaeology Museums and the Public: Exhibiting Culture Infant Intervention Summer Institute 
For more information: call 202.994.6360 • e-mail sumprogs@gwis2.circ.gwu.edu web www.gwu.edu/-specprog/ 
GW IS an aff1rmative action/equal opportunity institution. 


Tuesday, February 17, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Barge collision severely injures workers 
NEW ORLEANS 

A barge smashed into an offshore oil plat­form in stormy weather in the Gulf of Mexico Monday, starting fires on both and injuring five workers, the Coast Guard said. The blaze was quickly extinguished on the barge, but fire continued to burn on the platform. The injured workers were ferried to hospi­tals in Louisiana. The barge, being pushed by a tug, hit the platform about 1:45 p.m., 15 miles south of the mouth of the Mississippi River off Southwest Pass. The fire on the platform forced all six crewmen to evacuate -two on a commercial heli­copter that was on the platform and four in an escape capsule which they launched into the Gulf. The capsule was picked up quickly by a passing boat and a11 aboard were unin­jured. Nine workers were on the tug and barge; three suffered smoke inhalation in putting out the fire. The two other injuries were a broken hand and a broken leg. It was not immediately known whether those work­ers were on the barge or platform. 
Polish Gypsies seek WWII compensation 
WARSAW, Poland 

About 2,000 Gypsies who were persecuted by the Nazis during World War II will seek compensation from Germany, the leader of Poland's Gypsies said Monday. Roman Kwiatkowski said he gave a list with the first 137 names to the German ambassador in Warsaw, the PAP news agency reported. It was unclear when the rest of the names would be presented. Gypsy victims of the Holocaust around Europe are trying to obtain compensation from Germany. But it is proving difficult because many were unreg­istered in their native lands, or unregistered by the Nazis. There are some 30,000 Gypsies, who prefer to be called Roma, living in Poland. Like Jews, Gypsies were rounded up, brutalized, interned, deported, and killed by Nazi Germany. Between 200,000 and a half-million were killed. 
Sinn Fein to continue talks 
DUBLIN, Ireland 

British and Irish leaders anguished Monday over whether to eject the IRA-allied party from Northern Ireland's peace talks after two killings blamed on the Irish Republican Army. Britain's Northern Ireland secretary urged that Sinn Fein be barred from the talks as punishment. Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams appeared furious after a daylong debate with the two governments and the talks' chairman, former U.S. Sen. George Mitchell, behind closed doors at Dublin Castle. "We're trying to make this thing work," Adams told reporters. Britain's Northern Ireland secretary, Mo Mowlam, presented a one-page paper Monday calling for Sinn Fein to be expelled. The talks, which began in June 1996 and are supposed to con­clude by May, are seeking to find a way to govern Northern Ireland acceptable to both its pro-British Protestant majority and Catholic minority. 
U.S. markets were closed yesterday in celebration of Presidents Day. 
Jet crash leaves hundreds dead 
AssociATED PREss 
TAIPEI, Taiwan 

A China Airlines jet trying to land in fog crashed into a country neighbor­hood Monday, ripping the roofs off houses before skidding into a rice paddy and erupting in flames. Authorities said all 196 aboar9 and nine people on the ground were killed. 
Firefighters went house to house in the blackened neighborhood, putting out the flames licking doors and win­dows and searching for survivors. Searchlights illuminated a life raft from the Airbus A-300, wrapped around a broken tree stump. Seats from the plane were scattered in the dirt, one with a body trapped beneath it. 
China Airlines said the dead included the governor of Taiwan's Central Bank and other key financial officials; Taiwanese families returning from vacations in Bali; and four Americans. Victims on the ground included a 2­month-old baby. 
Witnesses said the airliner hit hun­dreds of yards short of the runway at Chiang Kai-shek airport, 25 miles west of Taipei. It tore through the second floors of homes strung along a highway before sliding to a stop in flames. 
"I heard a blast, and was scared to death. Parts of the house started to fall down," said Chen Al1-mei, who had to crawl out of the ruins of her home on her hands and knees. She and her hus­band were being treated at a hospital. 
"It happened so fast -noise and fire," said an elderly farmer who ran to the scene as soon as he saw the flames. He identified himself only as Chen. 
The fiery impact scattered charred bodies and body parts along the road they are all dead," said a woman while attempting to land on a second and throughout the sparsely populated whose four children were on the flight. approach at the airport's northern 
area, home to fish farms, small facto­Rescue workers on the scene said runway, the Taipei-based China ries and warehouses. The smell of jet they had given up looking for sur­Airlines reported. fuel and burning rubber lingered hours vivors, but the deputy director-general Heavy fog was reported around the after the crash. Only the tail of the bro­of Taiwan's Civil Aeronautics airport throughout the afternoon and ken, burned jet was recognizable. Administration, Chang Kuo-cheng, said evening, and a light rain was falling at Authorities sealed off the neighbor­he still hoped to find survivors among the time of the crash. 
hood, leaving families of passengers to the 182 passengers and 14 crew mem­The plane had been asked to make congregat~ at hospitals and the air­bers. the second approach due to poor visi­port. Relatives broke into tears and fell Airport officials said two flight data bility, said Hamilton Liu, a China into one another's arms as the extent recorders were recovered and were Airlines spokesman. Earlier, the Civil of the disaster hit them; one woman being analyzed to help determine the Aeronautics Administration had said collapsed to the floor. cause of the crash. the visibility was reported to be ade­
"They all went to Bali on a trip, and The twin-engine Airbus went down quate. 

AssOCIATED. PRESS.··. charg~ oftlle Pr~ tlX~-.tprofession to @.yone With a lowered. .. .·· .... . . 
. .. -. 

..•. <i WASH(Nt;l'ON .·~::a~~f~!r~1e~ilw~~¥:~~&;r~~~!i~;l~Trl1f!JJ~~~~···•···· ······p!~f11~~ii:lt~tu!gf~~:;J:~.··· 

V"trginia'~ govemo~. James companythats~pplies .tb#:'2..~:.~9v; Jeann~ ~p~een ve~q with I(J\1\f teSt soor~s goeson testS. to states~. ~It. begs the · 1~''Jegislation t}1.at would have to teach or even get an edu-. ques~ion · of whether it's :?required th~1tests forte?J,9h" cation degree. . . 
EJle: reportedthatasmany a.s · 
" one-thiJ-d o~would-be te1.1eh"' go~9ij~~"ff:~n€g~"~·······st~t~,~;~·~~§~:~~~.;~~.lr~.·· •···uJ;f·····!~~?:ls1v;:!6;~~~i:; 
·ers in ·the $tate nunked a education officia~·are .• ask.; J or more ad'\lancect tests. in. to raise·the bar for a· num.. · national test of basic read• ing whether tests. ofgeneral -~be Pr~xis $eries used to her of tests. Among those mg. writing and mathemat­know~edge a~f;l p(spe~ifi~ .@:;(~~rtify gradu~tes for gen~ral .being examinedIs a 120~ ..: ics. .· subj~cts•·• ··.· ~r~+ rig~rr.o~~ ~i ~~9wle<fg~;fprof~s~i~!;l~t ... qu~tion.· general.lcnowledge#t If.it \YRS pad news foj< e!l(J!lg}J.•.to·. ~nsllt'~i~b4lt''iL~l~ >)n~JCill&::~~fl ~HbJect:kllq~l+a!t test ~f).\": beginning teacher~ ...•.• Virginia,ilwas· worse for people·becf.}me ~~4~hers;;~iedge. Some states.have·their that #Qvers social studies. · the nation. Virginia has the The issue· has risen. in" owntests. · math, literature and the 
country's highest cutoff importance because of Explanations vary on why arts, and science. score for the Praxis I. used widespread efforts to raise seores are low. but poor pay *'We have a relatively high in 20 states to screen standards for what children .· tops the list. "(t clearly holds pass rate, but as we look at teacher college candidates should know and be able to back who it is that's enter-the exams and we look at and beginning teachers. do. ing," said Gordon Ambach. the cut stores, we're not Scarcely more than half the For some states, it means executive director of the convinced that it is a mean­students who took the test setting standards for the Council of Chief State School iugful exercise." said nationwide would have first time. Officers. Michael Poliakoff. a deputy made the Virginia cut. Last October in New Teaching has become less secretaryofeducation! 
"Virginia students would Hampshire, the board of attractive for women and Nearly 91 percent of be doing much better than education voted to adopt minorities since barriers to would~be teachers who took the national average," said Praxis I starting this fall other, more lucrative and the general knowledge test Charlotte Solomon, in after years of opening the prestigious jobs have been last fall passed it. 


.....
' 

Tuesday, February 17, 1998
page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 

Tuesday, February 17,7:00 pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Campus Bible Study 
Finishing the study of Paul's letter to the Ephesians. 
Wednesday, February 18, 7:30-8:00pm, Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Taize Prayer 
Friday, February 20, LaFortune Ballroom 
"A Glimpse Into the Soul": An Art Exhibit 
The artwork of Belinda Bryant and Alan Easter will be on exhibit at "Blak Kofee House." 
Friday-Saturday, February 20-21, St. Joe Hall 
Sophomore Class Retreat 
Saturday-Sunday, February 21-22, Five Pines 
Hispanic First Year Students Retreat 
. 

Sunday, February 22, 4:00-6:30 pm, Alumni Hall Social Room 
.LTR: Learning To Talk About Race 
(Feb. 27-28 Retreat Pre-Retreat Plunge) 
Monday, February 23, 5:05pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Memorial Mass -Justin Brumbaugh 
Monday-Friday, February 23-27, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Applications for NDE #51 (March27-29) 
Sign-up in progress: 
Freshmen Retreat #16 (Feb. 27-28) for residents of 
Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Keough, Keenan, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West and Sorin. Please see your rector or stop by Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library. 
Tuesday, February 17, 1998 
The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Trial of midshipman wraps-up 
Associated Press gest that Miss Jones was hit over seniors in high school at the the head with anything but the time. Both graduated with hon­FORT WORTH, Texas butt of a gun (that) we know was ors and earned prestigious spots 
Jurors began deliberating in the hands of David Graham, in military academies the next Monday whether former Naval not Diane Zamora," Linebarger year.Academy midshipman Diane said. "She didn't help. She didn't They were arrested in 
Zamora was a sociopath who 
September 1996 when Ms. 
killed a teen-age romantic rival 
Zamora's academy roommates or a helpless bystand~r manipu­'SHE DIDN'T HELP. SHE reported she had admitted to the 
lated into confessing. 
killing.
DIDN'T ASSIST. IT WAS

Defense attorney John If convicted of capital murder, 
Linebarger told jurors in his clos­DAVID GRAHAM. Ms. Zamora, 20, would automati­ing argument that Ms. Zamora's 
cally receive a life sentence
DEFENSE AITORNEY JOHN

then-fiance, David Graham, was 
because prosecutors opted not to 
LINEBARGER

responsible for the killing of 16­
seek the death penalty. She 
year-old Adrianne Jones. would be eligible for parole in 40 Linebarger described Graham, a assist. It was David Graham." years.former Air Force Academy cadet, Ms. Zamora and Graham are State District Judge Joe Drago as a "macho G.I. Joe" who domi­accused of killing Miss Jones, of sent jurors to a hotel after six nated Ms. Zamora and persuad­Mansfield, in December 1995, hours of deliberation and told ed her to take the blame. because the girl had a one-time them to return at 9 a.m. 
"There is no evidence to sug-fling with Graham. They were Tuesday. 
•INDIA 

Voters scarce because of riots 
Associated Press Monday. Elections officials estimated turnout at 50 percent.NEW DELHI, India After votes are counted in March, the party or 
Frustrated by a series of failed governments, coalition that wins a majority of seats nation­barely half the eligible voters turned out wide will designate a prime minister. Monday to choose a new Parliament in elections Nearly 5,000 candidates representing scores marred by at least 22 deaths. of parties are vying for 543 parliament seats, 
Another 70 people were injured by land with the other two filled by appointment. mines, in fights between rival political groups o:_ The Congress Party, which has governed India
"'•.•.,............ him t_?t:!~!~fl,~t,0j!!l!m'tj~·

opportunity yef.to ........;..,.£nii? in ambushes by rebels trying to disrupt the vote, for all but five years since independence, has held three years ahead of schedule. Still, been battered by accusations it is corrupt and
explain the objectives is?l!l()t.e:x:pe1~tc:II~~llli: 
Monday's violence was not unusual in a democ­out of touch.
risks of military acti,Q.;t:l· 
Advisers have privately com"' J'i racy that endures despite sharp differences The Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party amoiig its people. was expected to win the most seats -but not
plaihed. that the media ha~ 
Chief Election Commissioner M.S. Gill called the majority needed to govern alone, which
paid little attention to thtf 
the balloting "largely a peaceful exercise" given would leave India with another fragmented gov­
potential conflict. focusing 
its scale: 222 seats of the 545-member lower ernment.
instead on allegations that 
Clinton had an affair with a house of Parliament -the Lok Sabha-were The outgoing United Front, a coalition of 14 being decided in the first of six days of balloting parties that governed for 17 months until it
White House intern and tried 
to \ cover it up. staggered by region. resigned in December, was expected to fare About 250 million people were eligible to vote . badly after some of its parties splintered. 
/JeiJifel"tirj Tk!}#/1Zza./ Beat the clock Tuesday!! Anytime you call between 5:00 & 7:00, the price of your large 1 topping pizza is the time you call. * Plus tax ND store Open for lunch everyday 271-1177 Lunch Special Small 1 toppingSaint Mary's/ 2 cans of Coca-Cola productNorth Village Mall 5.99 271-PAPA  Anytime you call between 10:30 -12:59, the price of your 2 large 1 topping pizzas is the time you call. * Plus tax Drive-In and Delivery Visa/Mastercard Accepted  


OINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 1 7, 1 998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.. ................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Marv's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................Kyle Carlin Photo Edi.tor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Editor, 'viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4 543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• All ABOUT You 
Can We All Just Get Along? 
This is college, right? I have to ask because I really feel like we are all back in junior high again. Instead of complaining about the opposite sex at slumber parties or by passing notes, we are just using The Observer. 
Bridget Rzezutko 

Lately, reading this paper makes me feel like I am baby-sitting. I have to fight myself not to give time outs or threaten to take away dessert if everyone doesn't try to be nice. 
Why are people actually offended by ignorant stereotypes? Why are columnists male-bashing? And why is anyone actually taking the Keenan Hevue seriously? Obviously, all ofthese issues have already been brought up before. But since this is my column and I have space to fill up and childish behavior to reprimand, let's discuss our behavior. 
Even though I am not a male, I too was a little insulted by the Inside Column stereotyping Notre Dame males. I took the author's remarks as attacks on my guy friends, and by offending my friends, she offended me. But you know what? I read the column, was a little irritated, put it down and tried to forget about it. That wasn't possible, however, since every day there have been more attacks and counterattacks regarding the issue. The whole thing sounded more like a personal problem for the author than reality for anyone else here. Hey guys, does it really matter what this woman thinks? I am not asking anyone not to care, because of course any attack or labeling is going to sting a little bit. But it shouldn't make this much of an impact. The way I see it, if you aren't like her idea of a Notre Dame male, you have one of two options. One­prove her wrong. Call that girl in your psych dass that you stare at when you think she's not looking. Since you watch her more than the clock, you know it must be love. Or, second option-laugh it off. If you know yourself and you know you aren't like that, then that is all that really matters. If anything, feel sorry that she is so harsh on her fellow peers. I do. Granted, not everyone I have met in my years here has been perfect, but neither am I. I know lots of guys who do play video games all day; some that, in my opinion, really are too attached to their roommates, and those with rooms that could definitely use Molly Maid. But I also know that my room is messy-trashed, actually. I myself am a little obsessed with Frogger and NASCAR Racing, so much so that my male friends have to pry me away from the Play Station, not the other way around. 
I guess the actual question is: Why is anyone even bothered by this? All that matters is if someone is a good person or not, and how you feel when you arc with them. If someone thinks I am stupid because I go to Saint Mary's, or that a guy sucks because he lives in Zahm, or that that girl is fat so she must be from BP, then all these people are doing you a favor. You don't want to hang out with or date someone who is that closed-minded and judgmental. Not everyone fits the stereotype. The author of the Inside Column can sit and pout about how the males here are lacking depth. In her experience it may be true. But in mine, and most others, it isn't. 
If that guy won't pry himself away from Mario Go-Kart to talk to you, then either throw yourself in front of the TV until he realizes you even exist, or get over him. Find new friends. There are lots of great guys here who would meet you halfway. Girls, too. Get your own life and then what every­one else does won't matter to you. Stop judging everyone else and be a little more accepting of everyone'.s differences. 
Can't we all just get along? 

Bridget Rzezutko is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. ller column appears every other Tuesday. She can be found at The Observer. attached in parasitic fashion. to Notre Dame men. She also finds "Men About Campus" amus­ing. Readers can direct anti-Saint Mary's senti­ments. or anti-"Men About Campus" sentiments to her e-mail address at rzez 1904@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• tmER TO THE EDITOR 
Real Moral Solutions 
lnfrlday's Viewpoint, Laura Antkowiak and the College RepUblicans condemned Bill Clinton out of concern for the morality ofOur country. Let me say that l,like the majority·of this campus, al~\Vqrry about the morality of our society~ J think that this con­
<•.. tr~~ff~S~;?9uldbe an opportunity toopen dialogue and refocus our '¢A$~itJl)~ntt(;la.lllor~ nlora~society. L~trp~Qffer•a proposal to · ~J:i~g~·o~rq~untry~smort:tlframework: ·..····•··.· 
· ~·'i)Jt()rgetth{lidea of politicians as moralleaders. Yes, that's righ~,.dismissthis idea entirely as somethingthat simply isn't true an(torie we never believed anyway. Politicians have always been 
. mQt!lllycorrupt. .Thomas Jefferson, a father of our country, was ruri:iored to have slept with his slaves. Warren Harding was criti­d<G~~ for fathering an illegitimate child. Everyone knows about Kennedy's sexual escapades. Was our country really less moral whilethese men held office? I don't think our leaders have any bearing on how individuals conduct their private lives. Politicians' lack ofmorality spans across the political spectrum. Newt Gingrich 
· delivered divorce papers to his first wife's hospital bed while she was dying of cancer. Do any of us really look to politicians for role models? I don't think any of us turned to Reagan's sex life while developing our own. The way we develop our opinions on morality i~ 1.hroughthose. closest to us, like our peers.and parents, not the 
~y~ .!!1"\-\fashington. . . . .. . ~~ ~tt~ngtben our commitment to real role models. Thisis some*
tb_iiig easyto say but extremely hard to do, There are no concrete res11lt$:when discussing role models~ wecan'tsay that 'x' many role m~e}swill result in •x• number of good people. However, building 
str~~gthin our religious leaders and parentsis the only way to britlg about a moral society, If we really worry about the crumbling of9Urcountry's morality, let us start with the foundation. 
3. LOok to other countries as examples," Laura worries how other nations will look upon us. The truth is most of them just don't care. If you don't believe me, glance at the Feb. 9 issue of Time Magazine, page 21. The reason for the media circus is our general prudishness as a society. Most countries think it's ridiculous that we are so hung up on s~x. The way to improving moral conduct is not by fingering certain people and condemning them. Laura points out peoplelike the NewYork cabbie who don•t care about the issue. I ~i1tk f;hat is a sign of how strong our countryreally is. Other pl~esln the world, like Iraq. must live in fearof tyrants that kill 
,.,."Yit§9u~reason. While I can reject Clinton's.decision to sleep with ?,,ioth~r '\V'Omen on a personal level, I can also be relatively happy that · it isthe worst thing our nation has to worry about from fts leaders. 
Irisrelatively easy to pass judgement on other people. It is a much harder task to rmd real solutions to a problem. College Republicans, I agree that our country can use a "moral overhauL" Let us c<:)me together on our goal to see it becmne reality. 
-~·.f.:~ 
Brian Monberg junior, Carroll Hall February 13, 1998 


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
''yes, Ma'am, I am. And 
you are ugly. But in 

the morning, I will be sober. 
You, however, will still be 
ugly." 
-Winston Churchill, when told at a state dinner that he was intoxicated. 
-....-----~---~------..,......---------..--........-_.......~_.________________ 
VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 17, 1998 page 9 

• SHADES OF GRAY 
Bombing Saddam Will Not Work 
Once again, the United States is Sunday that the FBI recently conducted preparing for possible military action a secret investigation of CIA officials on in the Persian Gulf, and once again, the charges of attempting to murder question is what to do with Iraq and its Saddam Hussein. The Times said that weapons of mass destruction. As far as the Iraqi army crushed a covert action bad guys go, Saddam Hussein's creden­program in August 1996, and another tials are impecca­
================ program designed to
ble. Next to us, = attract and recruit he's the biggest 
Iraqi officers to plan bully in the Middle a military coup had East -a thorn in been destroyed two
Isaac 

the side of Kuwait, months earlier. the Kurds, and Thus far, Hussein 
U.N. weapons has executed at least
Ruiz

inspection teams. 100 military officers President who have cooperated Clinton has stated 
-----========----with American and 
our objective is to British intelligence "substantially agencies, and reduce or delay" intelligence Iraq's capacity to analysts doubt deliver weapons that a new plan of mass destruc­to oust Saddam tion. But even if Hussein would this were feasi­succeed. ble, it's hard to imagine that EASE SANC­Saddam's TIONS TO weapons pro­MAKE PEACE grams pose such Few people a threat that the think air strikes lives of Iraqi will make civilians are Saddam Hussein expendable. more willing to 
There's a Jot cooperate with our stealth United Nations bombers, fight­inspectors. ers, refuelers Brent and U.S. troops Scowcroft, the can do. U.S. National Unfortunately, Security one thing they Advisory during can't do is create the Gulf War, peace. warns in The 
Independent, BIG GUNS "We bombed WON'T WOHK him heavily in 
Curiously, the 1991, more United Nations, heavily than we for whom the can now; and he bombs would didn't change fall, is urging the his mind about 
U.S. to exercise anything." restraint and Even fewer seck a diplomatic people have solution. Saudi talked about Arabia, one of America's own our dosest weapons of Persian Gulf War mass destruc­allies, has said it tion-the eco­won't allow nomic sanctions attaeks to be in place against staged from its 
Iraq, which are soil, and support 
at the heart of from other U.N. 
this diplomatic nations is sparse. Encouragement has no incentive from Britain, to cooperate Canada, Australia and Poland is, as an with weapons inspectors unless there is editorial in the Seattle Times put it, a prospect that its economic isolation "hardly the cumulative wrath of an will end. outraged world." Air strikes will have limited strategic 
The only thing everyone can agree on utility. Sure, at stake in the short term is that bombing Iraq will be of little is the credibility of U.S. threats, but in use. A senior State Department official the long term, credibility can only come was quoted in the New York Times: "In through responsibility. That the United reality. I think the best we can do is States is determined not to lift the reduce [Saddam Hussein's} stock of sanctions as long as Saddam Hussein weapons, at least for a while, and give remains in power is a sign that we him some second thoughts about using haven't learned from history (think them against any of his neighbors." Cuba). Like Fidel Castro, Saddam 
Military officials are left wondering if Hussein isn't going anywhere. it's worth risking the lives of American I agree with Patrick Cockburn, who pilots (nut to mention innocent Iraqis) writes, "An end to the embargo and the for a "temporary annoyance to the isolation of Iraq should be discussed at Iraqi leader." the same time as a final accounting of 
Iraq's non-conventional weapons: in THE END GAME the same negotiations." Some Hepublicans, including Sen. 
John McCain of Arizona, have criticized Isaac Ruiz is a first-year law student. Clinton's policy toward Iraq as too lie can be reached at timid. They say that the administra­isaac.ruiz.13@nd. edu. His column tion's goals and means are inadequate appears el'ery other Tuesday. and arc calling for an "end game" strategy -a plan to remove Saddarn The L'iews expressed in this column Hussein from power. But the "end are those of the author and not neces­game" proposition is the worst of our sarily those of The Observer. alternatives. 
The Los Angeles Times reported 
• lmERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Liberal' Not Necessarily 'Pro-Choice' 
We Must Nota Defend Rights Choice, It's_ a 
·:~·· 

of Mother and Matter of 
Child ~~sponsibility 
As l read th~ recent l~tte~ to t~e editor [In 
r~,f~tence to a lettetifi th~ entitled "Calling all liberals to Show editoronFriday, Feb.13,]Mr. Hearts," I found that many ofthe ideas Glynn seems to be somewhat expressed by the author identified ignorant on the subject ofcon~ acceptable and even necessary respons­traception, A condom and the es ofChristians·to many ofthe social pill don't work quite the same problems occurJ:ing today. l agree with way. A condom merely pre-' the author that _Christians who recognize ventsfertilization, the pill,p Christ's presence in all members ofsoci· results in the destruction ofan 
. ety regardless ofsocioeconomic status·or already f~rtilized egg. There is race should, as the author stated, no moral difference between "believe in helping people." killing an embryo/fetus right 
However. I was profoundly discour· after fertilization or in the aged by the author's inclusion ofthe eighth month of pregnancy. acceptance of abortion as a criteria for The pill is just as morally those who want to live out the gospel of wrong as partial birth abor­Christ. The author, who rightfully tion. The issue is not the equates embracing Christianity with amount oftime since concep­helping others, contradicts his own tion, but whether a human life stance by advocating a ..choice" that in is beingtaken. fact hurts women .and their unborn chil~ Mr. Glynn believes that a dren. Christians ate called upon to help woman has the right to choose others because vve recognize the great what to do with her body•. gift oflife thatGod has given to each of That's true-up to a point, us and want to protect it at every stage. That point is the moment,when The author is inadvertently weakening another human life becomes his call to enhance the lives of some of present in that body. She then society's most vulnerable members has a responsibility to that life, {namely those on welfare, victims ofdis· just as parents do to post·birth crimination, andimmigrants) by ignor-· children and just as children ingthe plight oftwo other categories of dot<;) elderly parents. Does.Mr. vulnerable persons deserving ofrespect Glynn defend a pregnant ~the unborn child and the mother woman's right to use crack, or faced with a crisis pregnancy. a mother's right to use her 
As Christians, we are called upon to body to abfise her toddler? include these two categories ofindividu­If a woman believes so firmly als within the scope ofour concern. in her right to choose what she Advocating thatwomen should have the · does with her body, then she option to abort their unborn children ought to begin exercising that even when we are aware that this choice right by being extremely care· often subjects them to both short and ful about whom she chooses to long tenn health, emotional, psychologi· allow into that body. No one cal, and spiritual consequences is not an (except in the case of rape) act of concern. Christians are called forces a woman to become upon to reach out to women who, as the pregnant. No one even forces author states, "do not want, are not her to raise the baby. Adoption ready, or cannot afford to have a baby." has always been an option. Chances are that the attitude ofthe Pro-choice advocates should abortion-minded woman toward the abandon their right-to-choose child inside her stems from her convic­argument and tell it like it is. tion that she does not have the support Let's face it, this isn't really a she needs to give that child life. As question of choice. It's a ques­Christians, we need to give her that sup­tion of accepting responsibility port, not champion her "right" to abort and at least being willing to that child as a victory for liberal social carry the baby to term. thinking. It's time liberals realize that I don't know if you publish concern for humanity must include con­opinions from non-students, cern for the abortion-minded woman but I really felt the need to and her unborn child. write. I'm a Notre Dame parent 
who reads The Observer on­Samantha Snyder line. Junior, Howard Hall February 13, 1998 Helen Reilly February 13, 1998 



~ 

. J . •. . • • • '--... I 
-~ ~.............,. ~ 0:----"'·--------~· ..~J-.'1. 't~• ..-: ~ ~ -.~. ._.... _ .. F ' J'-':; ..
~~""-,s..;..~ ... -7. 

':­
ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, February 17, 1998 

• AccENT AsKs...... 
What was the best or worst Valentine~s Day gift you~ve ever received? 

"It was a tiny box I got from a guy in eighth grade. When I opened it my mom came in the room and to both our surprise it was lingerie. It was when he asked me to try it on when I got really offended." 
Carolyn Bush Freshman, Cavanaugh 
"I got a fish once. I had to take care of it the whole semester. It was terrible. I ended up giving it to a freshman girl." 

Joe Hand Junior, Dillon 



"The greatest gift was my Tufts hat. I'll never take it off." 
Jen Green Sophomore, Breen-Phillips 
"I got a vibrating Mr. Potato 
Head last week, and it was 
the best gift a guy could get." 
Mike Morales Sophomore, Knott 



"In the second grade Brent Zylka gave me gerbils for Valentine's Day. Their 
names were Salt and Pepper. I love the 
gerbils, but as for Brent, one day while 
climbing trees he saw my underwear 
and it was over." 
Amanda Kastner Senior, Lyons 


or

• 

By ROSS .RAMUNNO Accem Writer 


W
ell kids, you just experienced that hallowed day when you should h. ave demonstrated your true feelings for that special someone in your life. No, I'm not talking about when you get really drunk at Corby's and hit on that girl from your philosophy class. I'm talking about Valentine's Day. 
Ah. yes, Valentine's Day. This past weekend was a great source of anticipation, stress and dread for every male biped with the ability to use simple tools (including chimpanzees). I understand why this day 

worried many of you, but you shouldn't have had to worry any longer. If you followed the helpful tips and guidelines I am about to reveal, then you probably didn't screw it up. 
Why would you ever need this help? A few short years ago I might have asked the same question. You just get a few flowers, tell her she's great, and everything works out, right? No -listen to my cautionary tale of woe. 
For some reason, a completely rational, intelligent and sentient being can make some pretty stupid decisions. 
Three short years ago I was struck by one of those momentary lapses of reason that leaves you scratching your head and wondering how any­one would ever allow you to operate heavy machinery. I sometimes suspect that it was just my true bonehead nature shining through, but for the purposes of this story, let's just assume that I generally function in the manner of a normal human being. 
Let me start by saying, "You should have just gotten her flowers." know that this may seem a little mundane, but it is also safe. There is no possible \vay you can screw this gift up. I think this holiday might have been strtrted by some guy who had the vision to say, "Hey, we need a holiday that the ladies will love and that there's no chance for us to screw up." Unfortunately, what this man failed to realize is that, as a rule, we men don't even need an opportunity to screw something up ­we just find a way. 
For example, look at the guys on campus who sat around on the evening before Valentine's Day, beat their heads against their microbi­ology texts and tried (usually unsuccessfully) to come up with that nne gift that would really impress her. This is where things get dangerous. If you found yourself in this position, the only reasonable solution should have been to go to bed, get up early the next morning and buy her some flowers and candy. The worst possible solution would have been a midnight Meijer run. 
But, if you did go ahead and make that midnight trip to Meijer, I hope 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
... u .-..,.•54ii¥1+....
a a I 52 2. 
.&0 \;C ,W-..-At U & ·---= w""u _-Mapa
·• -·. ==· ,'-. ,·~.·1. ''~ ~····.!" ·. ·~"1:~. ·' 
.'),· -\'" .'···,::~.-':-.::~··· .: .... 
• .• , ~ • I' I' • • • • 
'• • ;; ). ' • t ) ) ' ? ~ 
~-' 
ACCEN't
Tuesday, February 17, 1998 page 11 
t. ' 
0 
a en tne s 
a 



10t to 
'• 
you didn't even think about turning your head in any other direction than the floral department. If you did, you probably walked out of there with a $5 gift from the automotive aisle. How do I know this? Because it happened to me. I am a victim of my own inability to finish a simple task without completely losing focus on what I originally set out to accomplish. 
1 know that right now a few of you are laughing and thinking that this was a ludicrous idea. It would be unusual and maybe even wacky to do something like this for Valentine's Day. Banish all such thought from your head immediately. As I, and surely some of you found this week­end, an ice scraper is not the way to a lady's heart. 
OncA you pull off something like this, you begin to believe purchasing 

car accessories for a romantic holiday is acceptable behavior. You may be able to pull off something like this once or twice, but if you continue to act this way you will become a member of what we veterans like to call "The Boys' Club." And if you become a member of this organization you will spend your next Valentine's Day exchanging gifts with your friend Steve who lives down the hall. 
For those of you who are unfamiliar with the concept of the Boys' Club, let me explain. It means that you spend your weekends, as well as your weekdays, with the boys. You eat with the boys, you drink with the boys, you possibly even go out to dinner and a movie with the boys. 
Does anyone see the pattern here? That's right, a distinct lack of activities with anyone who is not one of the boys. Not that there is any­thing wrong with spending some time with the boys, but once your name is mentioned with respect to possible canonization in "The Boys' Church," you begin to suspect that something is amiss. 
Thus, I hope all of you confused, frustrated souls out there have acted in accord with my words of wisdom. and if not, that you will take them to heart. All of them (well, most of them) are true. 
I also hope that you appreciate what I've done for you. because I feel that by helping a few guys out I might have just taken one for the team. In fact. at this very moment there are probably a large number of ladies on this campus who have just added this jerk who bought an ice scraper for Valentine's Day to their list of "guys who deserve lifetime achieve­ment awards for the Boys' Club." 
So keep in mind the dangers inherent in your own reasoning. Remember that if you waited until the last minute and grabbed a spur­of-the-moment gift, you have, without a doubt. screwed it up. Don't feel bad; there's nothing you can do about it. But don't lose all heart, there is hope for you if you descend to the depths of The Boys' Club. If you accept your flawed nature and make a conscious effort, you can turn yourself around. Believe me, this year I tried. I think Steve was pleas­antly surprised with his Valentine's Day high-speed modem upgrade. 
• AccENT SPEAKS 

The top 20 reasons why Valentine's Day is memorable at Notre Dame 

1. 
The realization that it was not a nightmare: you really were here in South Bend instead of on a deserted beach with sunshine. 

2. 
Roommates can provide an intimate setting of 3 or more. 

3. 
You could always save money by treating your date to slices of deli­cious pizza at The Huddle instead of a pricey meal at Tippecanoe. 

4. 
You could become the object of a squirrel's affection and drop out of school. 

5. 
You can pick your date up from Saint Mary's in the luxurious United Limo. 

6. 
South Dining Hall offers a great opportunity for romantic, candlelit, home-cooked dinners. 

7. 
You could receive gift certificates to the Beacon Bowl, enabling you to cross it off of your wish list. 

8. 
Parietals. They will either make your date nice and short, much to your relief, or make you cherish that short time together. But either way, by 2 a.m., it's over. 

9. 
Bridget's is closed, so your date can't splurge on a romantic penny pitcher. He or she will have to go all out and purchase Natty Light. 

10. 
Cold, rainy weather assures an evening stuck in the dorms, once again. 

11. 
You and your date can make a special trip to the Gorch Games Room for couples' night. 

12. 
You could get an ice scraper as a gift. 

13. 
Subscriptions to The Observer are readily available. 

14. 
You could send flowers to yourself and get away with it by telling everyone they are from someone from home. Just be sure to hide your credit card bill. 

15. 
A romantic workout at The Rock is always an option. 

16. 
All Valentine's candy is now on clearance. Go ahead, pig out. 

17. 
Meijer's is right down the road and open 24 hours, ready for your last minute purchase for that significant other. 

18. 
If Pam~la Anderson or Leonardo DiCaprio denies you, you can always flip through the dog book to find a new love interest. 

19. 
You can give your significant other some antibacterial soap to wash their hands after they use the restroom. 

20. 
Drunken hook-ups at SYR's. 


4 
ape; 42 ~i .
------------~------~--------•• 
Tuesday, February 17, 1998
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 


Sprewell's hearing draws to a close 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Latrell Sprewell's arbitration hearing concluded Monday with 7 1/2 hours of closing arguments, most of which focused on the player's griev­
ance against the NBA for suspending him for one year. 
Arbitrator J o h n Feerick can issue his 


decision at Sprewell any time within the next 30 days. Sprewell is hoping to be read­mitted to the NBA immediately. 
"On behalf on the players association and our 400 play­ers, I think everyone is pleased that the hearing is behind us and that Latrell has finally had an opportunity to a fair hearing before a neutral arbitrator," union director Billy Hunter said. "We look forward to receiving a decision and to Latrell resuming his career as soon as possible." 
Union attorney Jeffrey Kessler spent almost three hours making his closing argu­ment at the Manhattan law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. 
Attorney Frank Rothman, representing the NBA, took about two hours to state his case. Attorney Robert Shieblehut of the Golden State Warriors finished in about 20 minutes. 
The union and the league then gave rebuttal arguments for about 45 minutes apiece before the hearing adjourned. 
Sprewell was in attendance; as he has been for all nine days of the hearing, and more than a dozen attorneys were there. 
"We remain hopeful," said his agent, Arn Tellem. 
Feerick has given no indica­tion of how long he will take to issue a ruling. Before the hear­ing began, he turned down a 
., 
Classifieds 
motion for an expedited deci­sion. 
A total of 21 witnesses testi­fied over four days in Portland, Ore., during the final week of January and four more days in New York during the first week of February. 
The transcript from the hear­ing runs almost 3,000 pages. Given the time Feerick will need to review the it, no deci­sion is expected for at least a few days. 
Sprewell has already missed 35 games, making his suspen­sion the longest in NBA history. 
He has filed two grievances, one against the Warriors for terminating the remaining three years of his four-year, $32 million contract, the other against the league for imposing a one-year suspension after Sprewell attacked coach P .J. Carlesimo at practice Dec. 1. 
According to a person famil­iar with Sprewell's argument, his attorneys made a case that he was the first player to be penalized by both the league and the team for a serious transgression. His side also argued that the collective bar­gaining agreement clearly states that a penalty in a case like this may by issued by either a team or the league, but not both. 
Sprewell's side also argued that the one-year suspension was too harsh compared with previous penalties issued by the league. They also brought up cases of player-coach clash­es in other sports in which penalties were issued by either the team or the league, but not both. 
The NBA argued that the penalty was not excessive, given the nature of the attack. The le&gue's security depart­ment interviewed 23 witnesses in two days and determined that Sprewell got into a fight with Carlesimo at practice and choked the coach, then returned some 20 minutes later and punched him. 
• COLlEGE BASKETBAll 
Tar Heels still ranked at the top 
Associated Press 

North Carolina, Duke, Arizona and Kansas held the top four spots in the AP college bas­ketball poll Monday, continuing to separate themselves as the possible No. 1 seeds for the NCAA tournament. 
The Tar Heels (26-1) were again the run­away No. 1 choice with 68 first-place votes and 1, 7 48 points, 108 more than Duke (23­2). Arizona (22-3) had the other two No. 1 votes and 1,605 points, while Kansas (27 -3) had 1,587 points. 
This was the seventh poll this season, including the preseason rankings, where those four teams held the top four spots in some order. 
Purdue (22-4), which beat Indiana and Illinois last week, moved up three spots to fifth and had 1,379 points. 
Utah, Connecticut and Kentucky -all of whom lost one game last week -each dropped one spot to sixth, seventh and eighth, while Princeton moved up one place to ninth. 
Stanford, which rebounded from losing three of four games with road wins over UCLA and Southern California last week, moved up four places to round out the Top Ten, the biggest jump of the week in the 
rankings.

New Mexico again led the Second Ten and was followed by UCLA, South Carolina, Michigan State, Mississippi, Arkansas, Cincinnati, Massachusetts, Texas Christian and West Virginia. 
The last five were Syracuse, Michigan, Illinois, George Washington and Maryland. 
Illinois (18-8), the only newcomer to the rankings, entered following the loss to Purdue that snapped a seven-game winning streak. 
The Illini were ranked for seven weeks last season, including the last five in a row, reaching as high as No. 15. 
Illinois is the sixth Big Ten team to be ranked this season, a total second only to the Atlantic Coast Conference's seven. 
The ACC teams were North Carolina, Duke, Maryland, Florida State, Clemson, Wake Forest and Georgia Tech. The Big Ten teams were Purdue, Indiana, Michigan, Michigan State, Illinois and Iowa. 
Three leagues -the Southeastern Conference, the Atlantic 10 and the Western Athletic Conference -have each had five teams ranked. 
Rhode Island (18-6) fell out of the rankings from No. 25 following a split of last week's 
games, a win over George Washington and a loss to Temple. 
The Rams had been ranked for six straight weeks, fell out for one week, then re-entered last week. 
The biggest drop of the week was George Washington's fall from17th to No. 24 following 

TEAM  RECORD  POINTS PREVIOUS  
1. No Carolina (68) 24-1  1748  2  
2. Duke  21-2  1624  1  
3. Arizona (2)  21-3  1608  4  
4. Kansas  26-3  1589  3  
5. Utah  20-1  1437  5  
6. Connecticut  21-3  1368  7  
7. Kentucky  21-3  1300  8  
8. Purdue  20-4  1230  10  
9. UCLA  18-4  1147  6  
10. Princeton  18-1  1077  11  
11 . New Mexico  18-3  1024  12  
12. Arkansas  20-3  999  14  
13. Michigan State  17-4  907  16  
14. Stanford  19-3  894  9  
15. So Carolina  17-4  748  13  
16. West Virginia  19-4  572  15  
17. G Washington  20-3  519  22  
18. Mississippi  15-5  486  17  
19. Cincinnati  17-5  385  20  
20. Massachusetts  17-6  362  23  
21. Michigan  17-7  298  18  
22. Texas Christian  20-4  256  
23. Syracuse  17-5  245  19  
24. Maryland  14-7  239  25  
25. Rhode Island  17-5  176  

Others receiving votes: Xavier 128, Indiana 100, Illinois 63, St Johns 54, Iowa 20, St Louis 19, Murray St 18, Oklahoma St 16, Tennessee 16, Detroit 131 Oklahoma 11 I Florida St 101Coli of Charltn 91 Illinois St 91 temple 8, Miami 51 Colorado St 31 Utah St 31 Illinois-Chicago 21 Arizona St 1I Ball St 1, Hawaii 1 , NC-Charlotte 1I Santa Clara 1. 
losses to Rhode Island and Dayton. The Colonials (20-5) had won 15 of 16 before last week's losses. 
Arkansas (20-5), which dropped four spots from a season-high No. 12, also lost twice last week, dropping road games to Georgia and Tennessee. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, _including :1!1 spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classitleds for content without issuing refunds. 
~.
•· 

2·6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. Scottsdale Mall. Now open for NEAR CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW indoor/outdoor play. Students thanks for the cookies 
PERSONAL 
& FALL.272-6551 w/Nd-SMC ID-1/2 price field -math 262
'===N==o=T=Ic=E=s===-___.1 I=====~====~==N==T==E==o===-__, fee. 
NATIONAL PARK EMPLOY­ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME ADOPTION IS LOVE 291-2540. J & K­000 THE COPY SHOP 000 MENT -Discover how to work FOR JPW AND OTHER ND-Happily married NO Alumni Ya'll thought that Jose would LaFortune Student Center in America's Parks, Forests & SMC EVENTS. couple, with adopted 3 year old ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and be your only Valentine but look WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, Wildlife Preserves. Competitive VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS · daughter, wants to shower new babbling brooks in summer. there are others out there 
AND WEEKENDS!!! wages + bonuses! 5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. baby with love. Artistic full-time Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty beside him. Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Seasonal/year-round. For infor­WALK. mom, athletic lawyer dad, and fireplace in winter. Love and Fri 7:30am -7:00pm mation, call: 517·324-3111 Ext. 243-0658. a sister to play with. Friends on joy for your baby all year long. Here's to hiccups and snoring! Sat Noon -6:00pm N55842 the swingset, trips to the zoo, Happy, caring professional Sun Noon • Midnight ALL SIZE HOMES grandma, play groups, lulla· couple would love to provide a Oh what fun things can be 
CALL 631-COPY MODELS/DANCERS WANT· CLOSE TO CAMPUS bies, too. This is a home where new born with love, joy and done with a Dairy Queen cake. ED 232·2595 wishes come true. We'd like to security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­please call 219-271-0633 get to know you. Call Shawn & 800-484-7011 Pin #4523 Hsu has mad skills. 
98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar. Meg 800-767-4257. 
FOR RENT sand V-ball ct. washer/dryer. Legal/Medical/ Allowable exp. Russian, 7 yrs exp. Rus. Hsu looks hot in a scarf. 1628 Portage Av. 234·3831 paid. teacher 273·0482 for foreigners. Private & group That's Hsu not Tsu. 
I lost my day planner (of House For Rent The best part of the night, lessons all levels & translations province). If found, please call Two Blocks From Campus BED 'N BREAKFAST REG-Saturday, was when you laid in Yu1ia: 243-10791eave mes-A little tribute to the classics: Ann Goodwin @ 273·9942. 4-5 Bedroom. Dishwasher, ISTAY my arms-your head against my sage Caesar haircut on an odd­
Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard 219·291·7153 heart, where it always belongs. shaped head. and Off Street Parking. -Little Man Time I have lots of stuff to do tonight New guys and a new dorm. 

Found-Silver Ring in Hayes­Healy Restroom. Call631-8461 to identify. Debbie 
Lost­14K Gold pinkie ring. Call Debbie, 631·8461 June 98 for Summer, August for Fall. FREE MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM! Call 289·4712 
NEED AN APT FOR SUMMER SCHOOL? COLLEGE PARK-2 BDRM CALL KATE -243·9309 NICE 3·4 BEDROOM HOME FORNEXTSCHOOLYEAR GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097 
FOR SALE 
PC-CDROM games $1 0-25; Hohner Aco.GUITAR $175/best. 634·1926 LINCOLN'S 8-DAY PARTY 

Bring your pennies to the Irish Connection tonight. The upstairs lounge is open and ready. An old tradition lives again at ICON. 
IRISH CONNECTION 
Michiana Paintball at yes they are 
Scoobyislord. He is the second coming. 
All hail the holy Ab Roller. 
Hutch-Yet again I sit here with this empty chair next to me and think of you!! 
Egan get a haircut. 
But not as short as Toby's. 

Congrats Annabelle! You're taking one for the group. Fortunately, he's a good one. Love, Your Roommates 

Tuesday, February 17, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA 
Rodman benched and fined 
LET'S GET READY TO RUMBLE! 
The Debate to Decide the Ultimate Responsibilities of Business 
Defending the exclusive rights ofthe shareholder 
.. 

JOHN AFFLECK ''THE WACC'' GRAVES JIM ''FREIDMANOWSKI'' RAKOWSKI 
VERSUS 

Defending the rights ofsociety 
JIM ''SERENDIPITY'' DAVIS LEE ''FILL IN THE GAP'' TAVIS 
Refereed by 
FATHER OLIVER WILLIAMS Tuesday, February 17 5:15-6: 15pm Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
Brought to you by: 

Students for Responsible Business 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 

Dennis Bodman was a no­show for a second straight practice Monday, the third time in less than a month the rene­gade rebounder has missed a workout with the Chicago Bulls. 
The indiscretions have led to a spot on the bench for the start of Sunday's game and a fine. 
"We're not going to wrestle and tussle with this because it's not something major. It's not anything that's causing us to lose," Bulls coach Phil Jackson said Monday at the team's sub­urban Deerfield practice com­plex. 
"It's not something that is going to cause disruption. What we want is a team that goes into the playoffs in full health, and we can still accomplish that.'' 
w~· -:A: ·:w;:···::·~tt~~~;~;~~ 
Don't be another anonymous NO woman:· 
Join the 

women's Resource center 
and make your time here matter. come to our meeting 
Tonight at 8:00 PM 

in the elevator lounge on the 2nd floor of LaFortune to find out 


about the WRC. 

Jackson said Rodman was healthy, but the coach wouldn't reveal his latest excuse for missing practice. 
When Rodman didn't show Monday, the Bulls called and found him at home. Rodman's reasoning for being AWOL was not sufficient and he will be fined an undisclosed amount, Jackson said. 
The coach said he had not decided whether Rodman would play Tuesday night against the Indiana Pacers, a showdown for the best record in the East. 
"That depends on how Dennis responds," Jackson said. Rodman, recently sport­ing a leopard-spot hairdo to go with his various body piercings and tattoos, missed a Sunday morning shootaround and then didn't start as the Bulls beat the Detroit 
Pistons 99-90 later that after­noon. 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Kansas clinches tie for Big 12 title
Rodman told Jackson he lost the keys to his pickup truck and didn't have a way to get to Sunday's practice. 
Jackson sent Rodman home before a game in New Jersey on Jan. 23 when the six-time rebounding champion missed the morning shootaround after being out late the night before. 
Jackson said he didn't know if Rodman's absence Monday was related to Sunday's inci­dent. Rodman played just 21 minutes against the Pistons, going scoreless with eight rebounds. 
He had been averaging 15.2 rebounds a game in 35 min­utes. 
"I always say if you're not going to play, no sense me coming to the game," Rodman said as left the United Centeron Sunday. 
Rodman has been mostly on his best behavior this season with an incentive-laden con­tract heavy on number of games played. Last season he was suspended 14 games, 11 for kicking a courtside camera­man. 
Jackson said Bodman's latest troubles would not disrupt the Bulls, who have had a turmoil­filled season that may be their last together. 
Earlier, Scottie Pippen said he wanted to be traded and would never play for the Bulls again. He's since softened his stance, but last week said he didn't expect to be back in Chicago. 
There has also been a clamor over whether Jackson and Michael Jordan will be back next season. 
.A..ssociated Press 
BOULDER, Colo. 

Eric Chenowith had 15 points 
as No. 4 Kansas clinched a tie 
for the Big 12 title with an 81­
72 victory over Colorado on 
Monday night. 
Foul-plagued Raef LaFrentz 
finished with 13 points, and 
Billy Thomas had 16 for the 
Jayhawks (28-3, 12-1 Big 12), 
who beat Colorado for the 18th 
straight time and improved to 
7-0 since LaFrentz returned 
from a broken right hand. 
Kenny Price had 23 points 
and Charlie Melvin added 17 to 
lead Colorado (12-11, 6-7). The 
Buffaloes haven't beaten 
Kansas since Feb. 20. 1991. 
Kansas led by five points 
when LaFrentz committed his 
fourth foul and was forced to 
the bench with 16:38 remain­
ing. The Jayhawks built as 
much as a 13-point lead with­
out their star center before 
Colorado made a late run. 
Trailing 75-64 with 2:10 left, 
Colorado pulled within six on 
Price's fifth 3-pointer and two 
free throws by Marlon Hughes. 
But the Buffs missed three 
straight shots and Kansas hit 
six free throws to clinch the 
win. 
The Jayhawks clinched a 
share of their second straight 
conference title and their sev­
enth in eight years. 
After scoring 12 points in the first half, LaFrentz sat out for 13 minutes after committing his fourth foul with Kansas-leading 46-41 . 
Chenowith, a freshman who saw increased playing time in the nine games LaFrentz missed, scored nine points while LaFrentz was on the bench as Kansas outscored Colorado 28-23 without their star center. 
Colorado, beaten by 49 points 
at Kansas on Jan. 7, kept the 
game close in the first half 
behind 13 poin~s from Price, 
whose 3-pointer pulled the 
Buffs to 36-33 at halftime. 
Xavier 96 George Washington 86 
Gary Lumpkin scored a career-high 31 points as Xavier got the best of a physical game with No. 24 George Washington and rallied from a 10-point deficit to a 96-86 victory Monday night. 
Xavier (17 -6, 9-4 Atlantic 10) .steadied its wobbly season by 
hitting 45-of-63 from the foul 
line -the 45 free throws made 
tied the school record -and 
pulling it out in the second half 
with four players limited by 
fouls. 
Lumpkin hit 16 of Xavier's 
final 25 points to give George 
Washington (20-6, 9-4) its first 
three-game losing streak of the 
season. The Colonials fell into a 
second-place tie with Xavier in 
the Atlantic 10 West, a half­
game behind Dayton. The top 
two teams in each division get 
first-round tournament byes. 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 

r 
page 14 
J 
•NBA 
l Malone leads Jazz l to fifth straight win
t 
I 
Associated Press 
quarter. to take an 82-71 lead with 4:06 to play. 
Keefe had eight points and 10 rebounds in the first half as the Jazz took a 43-39 half­time lead. 
Wesley was a one-man show for the Hornets in the first half. 
He scored 18 of Charlotte's 39 points on 8-for-12 shoot­ing, while the rest of the Hornets were 8-for-22 from the field. 
The Hornets made a 7-0 run early in the third quarter to cut Utah's lead to 51-48. 
The Jazz made five turnovers in the final six min­utes of the third and entered the fourth quarter up just 65­59. 
With the win, the Jazz have beaten all eight Central Divisionteams at home this year. Utah is 16-4 overall against the Eastern Conference. 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 17, 1998 
.NBA 

Stoudamire becomes a Blazer 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND, Ore: 
It's official. Damon Stoudamire is a Portland Trail Blazer. 
The former Wilson High School star had to wait until just before a 2 p.m. PST dead­line Monday for the Toronto Raptors toconfirm the Friday deal that sent him, Walt Williams and Carlos Rogers to Portland in exchange for Kenny Anderson, Gary Trent and Alvin Williams. 
The deal was sweetened Monday when Portland added a second-round draft choice was thrown in. The Trail Blazers had already included first­round picks in both this year's and the 1999 drafts. 
Stoudamire, Toronto's star player and team captain, was greeted by a near-capacity crowd of 21,140 fans on Sunday, but many of them booed when it was announced before the game his hometown would have to wait to see him in action. 
{... 
! I I 
·' 

SALT LAKE CITY 

Karl Malone had 23 points and 11 rebounds as the Utah Jazz won their fifth straight game, 96-90 over the Charlotte Hornets Monday night. 
The Jazz announced during the second quarter that they had acquired center Rony Seikaly from the Orlando Magic for Greg Foster, Chris Morris and a 1998 first-round draft pick. 
Fans at the Delta Center roared with approval. 
Utah survived a big fourth quarter by Glen Rice, who scored 15 of his 30 points in the final 3:04. Rice hit three 3-pointers in less than two minutes and cut Utah's lead to 89-86 with 1:06 to play. 
Utah never gave up the lead, hitting seven free throws in the final minute to seal the win. 
Jeff Hornacek had 19 for Utah and Adam Keefe had 12 points and 12 rebounds. 
David Wesley scored 18 of his 24 in the first half, while Anthony Mason had 12 points and 10 rebounds. 
The trade left the Jazz with 10 players in uniform. 
Rookie William Cunningham, a 6-foot-11 cen­ter playing his first game in the Delta Center after signing a 10-day contract on Saturday, started in Foster's place. 
Even with its lack of depth, the Jazz bench outscored Charlotte's 31-7. Howard Eisley scored 11 points for Utah and Bryon Russell added 10. 
Utah made a 7-2 run in 1:15 midway through the fourth 
ieede ~ I t~t '?edt ztleal ~afiful 'Betau<:t 11-Steu.e! 



-
BID 


Don't forget 
Exercise your Right to Choose 
I Vote for Class Officers 8 I Vote for RRA Exec. Board 
Wednesday, February 18 in the dining Hall 
ON THE McCANDLESS SIDE 
8:00-10:00, 11:00-2:00, 4:30-6:30 
The trade was held up Sunday over results of the phys­ical exams taken by Williams and Trent. 
"There was a minor concern with Williams' right knee,'' said 
Toronto spokesman Matt Akler, referring to magnetic resonance imaging tests that Toronto had done on Alvin Williams and Trent. 
"The doctors think Williams may need arthroscopic surgery, so to give further insurance, Portland is adding a second­round draft pick this year." 
There was no word from the Blazers Monday on how the problem was resolved, but the team planned to have Stoudamire and its two new forwards in uniform Tuesday at home against the Golden State Warriors. 
While Stoudamire suits up for Portland, Toronto will be with­out Anderson, who said before the trade that he would not report if he were traded to the Raptors. Anderson has until Tuesday to report. 
"General manager Glen 


Grunwald is giving him another day," Akler said. "We'll decide then. He faces possible suspen­sion." 
Raptors general manager Glen Grunwald has not ruled out making another deal to move Anderson before Thursday's trade deadline. Anderson's agent, David Falk, is trying to broker deals with New York, Orlando and Boston, ESPN reported Sunday night. 
"We've looked at a lot of things, but I can't tell you if anything is going to happen," Grunwald said. 
The Raptors could fine or sus­pend Anderson for failing to report by the 48-hour post­trade deadline, but Grunwald did not indicate if he planned to do this. 
"I spoke to him (Saturday} and told him about the situation here and he had very little to say at that time," Grunwald said. 
"I explained to him how much we liked him as a player and how much we'd like him to be part of our future here. 
Attention!! Who:AU Freshman, .Sophomores &Juniors 
Why:If you are interested in running for C\ass Office OR Off-Campus 5enator 
What: Candidate Info. Meeting 
Where:  Student, Government  Office  
2nd Floor LaFlin  
When:•  Wednesday, February 9:30p.m.  18, 1998  

brot,ght to yot, by: 5 t~JdenMGovemment 


Tuesday, February 17, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS individual medley, James Scott­Browne 200-butterfly, John
Swim 
Steffan 100-freestyle, Scott continued from page 20 Zumbach 200-backstroke, Ryan 
Verlin 500-freestyle and Herb maybe even get second. The top Huesman one-meter dive. six teams will all be bunched Notre Dame dominated the together, but we can push past 200-freestyle, placing the top and do bf~tter than the other four finishers (Fetter, Ron teams. Some of the Notre Dame Royer. Scott Koziar and Steffan) records have been around nearly two seconds ahead of the entirely too long and I think the closest UWM swimmer. majority. if not all, of the This Wednesday through records arc going down; we've Saturday, the team will head to already broken quite a few and Pittsburgh to compete in the this will be our first 'shave and four-day Big East taper' meet." Championships. 
The Irish won 10 of 1 1 indi­The Irish have finished sev­vidual events, losing only the enth in the past two seasons, ZOO-breaststroke and the 400-but are confident that they will medley and 400-freestyle do better this year and hopeful­relays. ly finish among the top three. 
Notre Dame individual win­To do well, the Irish will relv ners were Wes Richardson heavily on seniors CardwelL 1000-freestyle, Hob Fetter 200-Brian Najarian, Royer, and freestyle. Russell Preston 50-Slade Stolz for leadership and freestyle, Ray Fitzpatrick 200-point scoring. 
You can be a part of an important clinical research study. 
Do You Have The Flu or Cold Symptoms? 
You may be eligible to participate in a medical research 
study which will provide: 
-STUDY RELATED CLINIC VISITS I PHYSICAL EXAMS 
-STUDY MEDICATION FOR THE FLU 
-LABORATORY TESTS 
-FINANCIAL COMPENSATION UP TO $150.00 
-KNOWLEDGE THAT YOUR PARTICIPATION COULD 
HELP OTHERS IN THE FUTURE 
To qualify to participate you must be between 18 and 65 
years of age. You must have a temperature of at least 100 
degrees Fahrenheit and have some symptoms such as sore 
throat, nasal symptoms, fatigue or aches and pains. Piease 
call us within 36 hours of the onset of these symptoms. 
For more information about this medical research study being conducted in South Bend call: 1-888-1-GOT-FLU 
Health Advance Institute Medical Research Centers 

Others on the Irish team who 
must perform are Herb 
Huesman, Ray Fitzpatrick, 
James Scott-Browne, and Scott 
Zumbach. 

When this year's seniors arrived as freshmen, they fin­ished 5-9 but have improved their record each year. 
"This year has really had a sense of closure, especially dur­ing the twilight of my career," Cardwell said. "We have a real­ly talented class of freshmen, and only four seniors, but I am looking forward to passing on the torch and seeing what the team can do with an entirely new class of freshmen." 
Notre Dame swimming has already recorded one of its best season's in history and the team now heads into Pittsburgh with a great opportunity to earn its best Big East finish and put an exclamation point on the end of 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

the season. Notre Dame heads into the Big East Championships with high hopes. 
THE PAN-AFRICAN CULTURAL CENTER 
Presents: 

FACING HISTORY AND OURSELVES: THE PROBLEMATIC OF SLAVERY AND REPARATIONS 
SPEAKING: 


DR. CLARENCE J. MUNFORD 
Professor of History University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada 
Author of: RACE JJND BEI'AIIAf'IDNS: A B£At:IC B£SI'£Cf'IJIE FOB f'BE 2r' C£Nf'UBY 
Friday, February 20, 1998 @ 12:00 Noon Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
In Celebration of Black History Month with Support of Student Activities, NDCIBD, Salon of Fiendship, Multi-Cultural Executive Council and ND Black Alumni Association. 
............................................................,
! WON"T FIT ON 22ND... i MEN'S 8ASKETBALL!V i VS. MIAMI i r-
JACC, NOON 
INDOOR TRACK/V 

AT BIG EAST INDOOR CHAMP.! SYRACUSE, NY ! 
MEN'S l.ACROSSEN l 
VS. BROWN i MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD ;

c_____c:.::_______; 
-·­
22 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 

AT NATIONAL TEAM INDOOR MADISON, WI 
..._ ..MEN'S TENNISN 
AT NATIONAL TEAM INDOOR'S LOUISVILLE, KY 
MEN'S l.ACROSSEN 
VS. BROWN MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD 
16 
23 

Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. Check out Sports1/2Page every two weeks for the latest ! vs. PENN STATE, 1:00 PM 
. MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD 
scoop on sports and NIKE events at Notre Dame. Are you or your team setting any records? Breaking any new 
. ICE HOCKEYN • i 
ground? If so, I want to hear from you-especially if you're a Club or Intramural athlete. Drop me an email at i VS. NORTHERN MICHIGAN 
; JACC, 7:00PM !
colleen.henshaw@nike.com. You just might end up featured in the next issue of Sports1/2Page. To reach 
; MEN'S 8ASKETBALL!V . 
NIKE HQ directly, try: sports.halfpage@nike.com ... 
AT PROVIDENCE, 3:00 PM 

; SOFTBALt!V 
i AT NFCA LEADO"F CLASSIC:
Come experience "maximum burn" at the Zahm Ab-a-Thon Tuesday, February 24th at 11:00 PM, in the 4th floor 
COLUMBUS, GA ' 

hallway of Zahm Hall. There'll be a great workout and contests for all, PLUS a bonus for the dorm with the best representation! ... Checking out towels at Rolfs Rec Center can be a drag. If I spot you working your hardest, you just might get a NIKE towel to keep for yourself. 
17 
MEN'S BASKETBALL!V 
VS. CONNECTICUT JACC, 7:30PM 
~----...·-····-·--··-·----···········---············1 
IPITTSBURGH, .fA, _10:00 A~! 
i  WON'T FIT ON 18TH...  •  
'  MEN'S SWIMMING &  
.  OIVINGN  
l  AT BIG EAST CHAMP.  •  

24 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL!V vs. RuTGERS , JACC, 7 00 PM 
ZAHM AB-A·THON 
ZAHM HALL, 4TH FL., 11 PM 
. ............ . ... 
WON'T FIT ON 20TH... M/W SWIMMING & DIVINGN 
AT BIG EAST CHAMP. P1n5BURGH, 10:00AM 
IN CREATING 5POR1S112PAGE, NIKE MAKES EVERY EFfORT TO BE ACCURATE. WE REGRET ANY ERRORS. IF YOUR TEAM WASN'T COVERED. LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW AND WE'LL TRY NEXT ISSUE 

19 20 21
18 
WOMEN'S OIVINGN 

WoMEN's TENNisN WoMEN's TENNisN WoMEN's TENNISN M/W SWIM & OIVINGN AT BIG EAST CHAMP. 
AT NATIONAL TEAM INDOOR AT NATIONAL TEAM INDOOR AT NAT. TEAM INDOOR AT BIG EAST CHAMP., PIITSBURGM PiTTSBURGH, PA 
MADisoN, WI MADISON, WI MEN's TENNISN M: 10 AM/W 6:30PM 
10:00 AM 

MEN'S TENNISN MEN'S TENNISN AT NATIONAL TEAM INDOORS ICE HOCKEYN WOMEN'S 8ASKETBALL./V 
AT NATIONAL TEAM INDOOR AT NATIONAL TEAM INDOORS WOMEN'S BASKETBALLIV AT LAKE SuPERIOR VS. GEORGETOWN 
LOUISVILLE, KY LOUISVILLE, KY AT UCONN, 2:00 PM INDOOR TRACK!V JACC, 7:00PM 
AT BIG EAST INDOOR CHAMP.
PITTSBURGH, PA SOFTBALL./V
_., 
SYRACUSE, NY

r--------------------_., AT TAMPA TOURNAMENT --------------------.. 
26 I 27 28
I
25 : I 
I 

I 
I WOMEN'S TENNISN WOMEN'S TENNISN WOMEN'S SWIMMING &MEN'S 8ASKETBALLfV: 
I 
I VS. SYRACUSE VS. MINNESOTAVS. GEORGETOWN 1 
DIVINGN

I 
I ECK TENNIS PAVILION, 4:00 PM EcK TENNIS PAVILION
JACC : 
SHAMROCK CLASSIC 

················-······················ ···········-·····--"! 
ICE HOCKEYN 9:00AM
9:00PM : 

, WON'T FIT ON 21ST... i RoLF's AouATIC CENTER 
I 

VS NORTHERN MICHIGAN
M/W SWIMMING & l MEN's TENNISN 11:00 AM 
.........-----....... I 

JACC, 7 00 PM 
VS. WISCONSIN 

WOMEN'S 8ASKETBAuN
IcE HocKEYN 

SOFTBALL./V 
ECK TENNIS PAVILION • AT BIG EAST TOURN.

AT NORTHERN MICHIGAN i 

! AT B~~~~~~~AMP. , 
AT NFCA LEADOFF CLASSIC 
1:00PM 
PISCATAWAY, NJ
7 00 PM ; 

t.............P.!.!.!_S_B_~-~g_H_,_f~.............i COLUMBUS, GA 1i
SOFTBALLIV 

...•..... 
AT TAMPA TOURNAMENT 
WON'T FIT ON 28TH... . 

WoMEN's LAcROssEN 
AT DUKE TOURN 

. MEN'S l.ACROSSEN ' 
n 
0 
II 
n 
0
.., 
ID 
n 
.. .., ID I» 0 
::;, I» 
-
< 
II 
< 
.."' I».., 
'<
-
n 
II 
n 
c C" 
~­
-
II
-
::;, 
r+
.., 
I» 
3 
c
.., 
I» 

THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTSl/2PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE' DOES NOT 'SPONSOR ANY VARSITY. INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THlS PAGE DOES. NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY .SUCH.SPONSORSHIP. ~ -_. _ 

~ ~----~------~--------­
page 16 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
West jumps to eighth best in nation 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame track and (ield team will carry strong momentum into the Big East Championships this coming weekend, following on the heels of strong performances at the Butler Invitational and Central Collegiate Championships. 
Many of the athletes did not compete at either of these two meets in an attempt to rest up for the strain of running multi­ple events against top competi­tion in the Big East meet, which has been the team's primary goal since day one of the 1998 season. Those who did com­pete, however, showed their true colors with some break­through performances. 
Sophomore Marshaun West jumped 25-1 1/4 in the Central Collegiate Championships in Ann Arbor, Mich., which is tied for the eighth-best jump in the country this year. This puts him in strong position to contend for one of 15 berths in the NCAA Indoor Championships in March. West's jump is the sec­ond-best indoor jump in school history, ranking just behind a 1985 jump by James Patterson. 
''I'm not the one who did it," said West. "God did it for me." Also in the CCC in Ann Arbor, Chris Cochran was timed at 
6.42 seconds in the 55-meter dash and Kevin Reher ran 7.66 in the 55-meter hurdles, both returning from slight injuries the week before. Junior Bobby Brown ran 48.6 in the 400­meter dash, followed by fresh­man Terry Wray in 49.5. Wray also ran 22.5 in the 200-meter dash. 
Notre Dame placed seventh out of 13 teams in the CCC, despite sending no distance runners to the meet, missing Mike Brown in the pole vault due to a hamstring injury, and with top sprinters Errol Williams and Danny Payton competing in the Butler Invitational instead. "These races were great preparation for the Big East, so I'm very excited," said head coach Joe Piane. "We actually had some kids perform very well at Ann Arbor, but there was no way we were going to do well as a team because of all the people that we didn't bring." 
Field events coach Scott Winsor was pleased with the meet as a whole, although he noted that the absences of Brown (ranked 12th in the nation in the pole vault) and triple jumper Adrian Erby were sorely felt. 
"The throwers didn't have the day that we wanted them to, but they traditionally come up very well at the Big East, so I'm not concerned," said Winsor. "We had some performances that we really needed -Marshaun West in the long jump. Brown will jump next week whether he's ready or not and hopefully, his hamstring will be okay. Knowing Mike Brown, he will be ready." 
Sprinters and hurdlers coach John Millar accompanied Williams, Payton, Berit Junker, and Carri Lenz to the Butler Invitational on Saturday in Indianapolis. Williams led the Fighting Irish with a time of 
7.83 in the 60-meter hurdles, which converts to being very close to his school record time of 7.29 in the 55-meter hurdles. He was thP No. 1 collegian and third overall. Payton won his heat of the 400-meter dash in 49.06. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Irish 

continued from page 20 
players wearing the Blue and Gold fouled out in less than 20 minutes of play. At the Hartford Civic Center, Garrity scored 15 points in just 19 minutes of play but the men in black and white whistled him for five fouls dur­ing that span. 
Notre Dame's other post play­ers did not have much more success as Phil Hickey fouled out in 17 minutes and Rasmussen in 20. Tonight, the already depleted Irish can hardly afford to lose anyone. 
"In the last game we went in there and started off kind of slow and not getting back on defense," Rasmussen said. "We were kind of playing soft and this time we just want to attack them right from the game." 
"They know that both Pat and Phil are very important to our scoring and they just wanted to go at them right away," Rasmussen continued. "They just attacked us right away so this game we just want to try to not push and foul as much." 
Despite the imposing num­bers put up by the Huskies and being forced to play without Friel, the team remains confi­dent. 
"Everybody has confidence that we can go into this stretch and win all the games," Rasmussen said. "We just have to play our game.'' 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class. will be offered Saturdays and Tuesdays from 12 p.m. to 
1:30 p.m. (Sat.) and 8 to 9 
p.m. (Tues.) in Rockne rm. 301. 
Aikido ~ Classes on Monday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in room 301, and Friday from 7:30 to 
9:30 p.m. in room 219 in Rockne. Bring comfortable clothes. 


Notre Dame Australia 
is offering, for the first time, an opportunity for SUMMER study at its Fremantle and Broome Campuses 
Program Dates: June 15, -August 7, 1998 
This program is designed to offer two courses in Arts and Letters or Business 
! 


FOR MORE INFORMATION, COME TO A MEETING ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19TH AT 5:00P.M. ROOM 120 DEBARTOLO 

Tuesday, February 17, 1998 
The Observer/John Daily 
Junior Phil Hickey must perform in the lane in order for Notre Dame to relieve some scoring pressure from senior Pat Garrity. 
National Touring Production 
PERFORMED BY THE MONTANA REPERTORY THEATRE 

Tuesday, February 24 • 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. 
Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
Adult tickets also available at all ~~......._, ticket centers including Orbit Music & L.S. Ayres. 
To charge tickets by phone, call 
219/272·7979 
To purchase online: http://www.ticketmaster.com 

MgJm()
' c~ THE ARTS
~NOTRE DAME, IN 

This program is supported by Arts Midwest. a regional 
With support from the Student Activities Board arts organization serving America's heartland. in 
and the Office of Multicultural Affairs. 

partnership with the NatiOnal Endowment of the Arts. 
B RUN 0 'S 
PIZZA NORTH US 31 NORTH 273-3890 
Hours: Delivery 
'Tilll AM 273-3890 
Sun-Thurs Lunch and 'Till 2 AM Fri 
Regular Hours and Sat Lunch ll-2 
On Tuesdaysand Thursdays A $12.00Pizm With Any Toppings For Only$7.00 
1273-3890: 
:i 
1 • 

USTILL~THE BEST" 
; • .....,_ ·---,·c.·-·-......;:..: --• --~--=:...-~-----­
Tuesday, February 1 7, 199 8 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN's TENNIS 
No. 15 Irish remain undefeated 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
The women's tennis team proved it deserves to be men­tioned as one of the best in the nation with an impressive 5-4 victory over No. 12 Tennessee. The 15th-ranked Irish improved their record to 5-0. 
The third doubles team, con­sisting of Kelly Olson and Kelly Zalinski, provided the victory margin with a 9-8 tiebreaker win over Tennessee's Whitney Dill and Erin Lowery. Zalinski also won at No. 5 singles with a con­vincing 6-0, 6-1 win over Megan Russell. Freshman Michelle Dasso also won twice, at No. 3 singles 6-3, 6-4 over Dill and at second doubles with Marisa Velasco. 
At the top spot. junior Jennifer llall scored an impressive victory over Manisha Malhotra, 7-6, 6-4. 
Notre Dame beat Ohio State on Friday 7-2. The Irish won No. 3 through No. 6 singles and swept all three doubles. 
Olson pulled out a tight three set victory at sixth singles, 6-2. 4­6, 6-4. Dasso, TifTany Gates and Zalinski all won in straight sets at third, fourth and fifth singles respectively. 
The closest matches of the day occurred at first and second sin­
gles. Hall suffered her first dual meet loss of the season with a 7­
6. 3-6, 7-5 defeat by OSU's Kristy Dascoli. Velasco lost a tight three setter to Briana Harris at second singles, 7-6, 0-6, 7-6. 
On Sunday, the Irish shut out Boston College 9-0. Senior reserve Darcie Sweet stepped into the lineup at sixth singles and scored a 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 victory over BC's Kara Swanson. 
Velasco, playing at the top spot, won 6-3, 6-2 over Cynthia Tow. In a freshman battle, Dasso proved superior with a straight set victory over Kiren Fernando 6-3, 6-4. Dasso had a perfect 6-0 record for the weekend. 
In IWe ory of 
JUSTIN BRUMBAUGH 
THE CLASS OF 1998 
WILL SEND CARDS TO HIS FAMILY THE HUDDLE TUES -THURS 11 · I WE WILL PROVIDE CARDS ALL ARE WELCOME 





A representative will be on campus: 
Wednesday, February 18th Information Session 2:00 -4:00 pm 117 DeBartolo 
1•111 
INTERNATIONAL PROGRA.\18 232 Bay State Road Boston, MA 02215 617/353-9888 E-Mail • abroad@bu.edu Visit our web page! • http://www.bu.edu/abroad 
An equal opportunity, qffinnatitJe action institution.
"""­

RECIPORTI & IRIIHEALTH THANK YOU FOR YOUR DONATION TO OUR THIRD ANNUAL VALENTINE AEROBICI CLAII! 
1\\Btmuortum II~a 
m. ND GolfShop, 
~[Joe ;pieflce g 
,_' 
• 
• 
-~ 




•
~--· 

~-­

• 
,J~ I e 
-----COVERING THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN 
1
~Af~NC? .NAGANO, jAPAN 

Tuesday, February 17, 1998 
• OLYMPIC UPDATE 
Seizinger leads German sweep of combined events 
Associated Press 
HAKUBA, Japan 
Katja Seizinger, racing through heavy snow, led a German sweep of the women's combined event Tuesday and won her second gold medal in two days. 


Seizinger, who won the downhill Monday, became only the second woman in Olympic history to win three Alpine gold medals, joining slalom skier Vreni Schneider of Switzerland. 
Seizinger, who also won the downhill at the 1994 Lillehammer Olympics, had two nearly flawless slalom runs Tuesday (Monday night, EST) to wrap up her combined event victory in an aggregate time of 2 minutes, 40.7 4 sec­onds. 
Martina Ertl won the silver medal in 
2:40.92 and Hilde Gerg gave Germany its first 1-2-3 finish in an Olympic Alpine event by finishing in 2:41.50. 
A potential star of the future, 18-year­old Caroline Lalive of Steamboat Springs, Colo., finished seventh -the 

'I 
best result by an American woman in 

I I 
h 
the combined event since Gretchen l Fraser's silver medal in 1948. 
The combined event was not held

1 i 
I 
il from 1952-84 at the Olympics, but was reinstated at the 1988 Calgary Games
II and has been contested ever since. 
Lalive was in 14th place after the_ combined downhill, but moved up to seventh place after the first combined slalom run. Her aggregate time was 2:44.76. 
"The hill was very much like Howelson Hill back in Steamboat Springs," Lalive said after the first slalom run, "and my coaches kept telling me to ski it just like I've skied that hill thousands of times." 
..MEDALS 
IYI TABLE 
1998 Nagano Winter Olympics 
Monday, Feb. 16 
(After 40 events)

I 
I 
Nation G S B Tot 
J 

Norway 5 7 4 16 flUssia ·''-S;t~:;,:~~ t
1 ••·•·•••••---·.~•·•·:;l~!·w·;•·1.. [:ii·i;:.,,~.·-·~

I 
ll 
Canada  4  4  1  
Austria  2 """3  6  
Japan  3  1  3  
Finland  2  3  2  
Netherlands  3  3  1  
United States  2  1  4  
Italy  1  3  2  
France  2  0  3  
Switzerland  2  1  1  
Czech Republic  0  1  1  
Bulgaria  1  0  0  
Denmark  0  1  0  
Ukraine  0  1  0  
Belarus  0  0  1  
Belgium  0  0  1  
Kazakstan  0  0  1  
Sweden  0  1  1  

G-Gold, S-Silver, B-Bronze 
AP 
9 
1l' 7 
7 
7 
7 
6 5 
4 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 2 

page 18 
• ICE DANCING 

Grishuk and Platov win gold again 

Associated Press 
NAGANO, Japan 
No sooner had blue-nailed, white­haired Pasha Grishuk dried the tears of joy streaming down her mascara­smudged face, when the sniping began. 

"I think we had a better program overall," ice dancing silver medalist Anjelika Krylova said. 
"I think there was some politics involved," added her partner, Oleg Ovsyannikov. 
"For me, they don't bring the sport up, 11 sniffed Natalia Dubova, who coaches the fourth-place finishers. 
"They" are Russians Pasha Grishuk and Yevgeny Platov. 
And together they soared above the carping a1•d complaints Monday night, becoming the first couple ever to repeat as Olympic ice dancing cham­pions. Their performance to "Memorial Requiem" earned two per­fect marks and left Grishuk, the plat­inum blonde with the purple skates and the colorful past, all choked up. 
"It was our dream to win this gold and, of course, to make history. So we made it and it is fabulous. I don't know what could be better," she said. 
Well, it probably would be nice if everyone agreed that their 22nd straight victory, an incredible streak even fot: this sport, was worthy of the gold. 
Fellow Russians Krylova and 
Ovsyannikov certainly didn't thinkso. . "I don't know what to say," said Krylova, who referred to Pasha by her old name, Oksana. "Oksana and Yevgeny were skating and we did not see them in action. The public liked us better. I think we had a better pro­gram overall." 
Added her partner, "We are on the ice to do our job, and this iswhat we do. We just skate. As for what is hap­pening outside the ice rink, we don't care." 
Ah. but they do, or else they would­n't challenge the placings. And they aren't even the biggest complainers. 
"I always thought Torvill and Dean, they did so much for our sport," said Dubova, who coaches Canada's Shae­Lynn Bourne and Victor Kraatz. "I always ask myself what Grishuk and Platov have done. For me, they don't 

• WOMEN's HOCKEY 
U.S. and Canada set for finals rematch 
Associated Press 
NAGANO, Japan 

This is a grudge match eight years in the making. Time hasn't dulled it. Familiarity hasn't softened it. 
If anything, the U.S. and Canadian women's hockey teams are more com­bative and competitive than ever as they play for the Olympic gold medal. 
"We don't want to hear the American anthem. We don't want to see them hootin', hollerin' and saluting their fans," Canadian forward Lori Dupuis said. "We want to win the final for those reasons and for the gold medal." 
"We've gone through a lot with this team," U.S. defenseman Tara Mounsey countered. "Of course that lingers in everybody's mind. You want a gold medal to erase that, leave it in history where it belongs." 
It will be the fifth time since 1990 that the teams have fought for the title of best in the world -but the first time with an Olympic medal at stake. ·­
In the previous meetings, Canada won cleanly until last April, when the fourth Women's World Championship ended with a fluke goal in a questionably ref­ereed overtime game. 
The stakes rose with the attention given the Olympics. Canada won seven . exhibition games leading up to the Winter Games and the United States won six. Each had 37 goals total in the series. 
Everything seemed ev~n until Saturday's ugly preliminary round game, the last chance the rivals had to size each other up -or perhaps cut each other down to size. 
The United States won it 7-4 with a six-goal comeback in the final period. The teams also generated 48 minutes in penalties and a controversy over whether a U.S. player had made a snide remark about a Canadian's recently deceased father. 
The United States, allowing that rude 
remarks  were  exchanged, denied  the  
story and tried to put it aside.  
"We're a  very focused  team and  we  

didn't let that bother us one bit," Mounsey said. "We know what hap­pened. It's their problem. Let them deal 
KRT Photo 
Russians Pasha Grishuk and Yevgeny Platov earned two perfect marks last night. 
bring the sport up." 
· Grishuk, who'd like to skate profes­sionally and attract some attention in Hollywood, thought Dubova was way off base. 
"My feelings are really hurt," she said. "I think some people are not nice to me, because they want to beat me." 
But nobody does. 
And on this night, no one else matched their speed, power or com­plex maneuvers. 
Third place went to France's Marina Anissina and Gwenda} Peizerat, ahead of Bourne and Kraatz, who were the bronze medalists in the last two world championships. The Canadians used their rollicking "Riverdance" routine to beat the French couple's passionate portrayal of "Romeo and Juliet" in the free dance, but they were too far behind to move up. 
So, naturally, they griped. 

"The Olympics is all about the sur­vival of the fittest," Bourne said. "It's about true games and sports. That's not what it is in ice dancing right now. It's about off the ice. 
with it. If they want to blow it out of' proportion, blow it out of proportion. They're only going to affect them­selves." 
In anticipation of another nasty fight, the U.S. team worked on power plays and penalty killing in Monday's last practice. 
"You've got to be prepared for a man­up or man-down situation. It seems like that's always been the way in the past world championships. It was who capi­talized on the power plays," U.S. cap­tain Cammi Granato said. 
"It's going to be just like any other hockey game between us in that you're going to see a huge battle back and forth." 
Once, the teams got along fairly well. Canada's Becky Kellar and Katie King of 
the United  States  were  teammates  in  
hockey  and  softball  at  Brown  
University.  Canada  defenseman  

Geraldine Heaney joined five U.S. play­ers on a promotional tour for women's hockey equipment last summer. 
But those days are gone. How far gone? 

. . . ~ . .· ~ . . : . -. / ' . . . -. . -.... . . . . . ·-. . 
Tuesday, February 17, 1998 page 19
The Observer • TODAY 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'VE. BEEN HI.REO TO I PLACE. TI\E ''CURSE OF ~ FIND T~E GULLIBLE OOGC>ERT" ON ALL P~5T ; FOOL WHO CONTINUES AND FUTUR.£ SENDERS ! <> TO 5ENO ~NON~MOU5 Of CI-\A1N LETTERS. <J) ~ 
I THINK. I 
5~W WALL'( 
fLINCH. 


; "
..
... 
... 
! 
c 
::1 
'f'-.,.......-M :;;: 
----~ 


27 Willow 28 Circus cries 29 Popular potato 
30 Modern "book" 31 Where an Edsel filled up, maybe 32 Wild West Show 
star 36 Despondency 37 --and Coke 38 Business­
related 40 Where Taipei is 41 One of the 
Baldwins 
,.............--­
25 "The Honey-moaners" catch phrase 
32Monte-­33 Filleted fish 34 One with filling 
work?: Abbr. 35Woodwind 36 Ground grain 38 Big elephant 
features 39 Announcer 
Pardo 40 Chimney duct 41 "God bless" 
preceder 42 "The Gold bergs" 
catch phrase 46 Spanish gold 47 Rebellious one, 
maybe 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Aries: Try to keep your conversation light and your hands to yourself today. You could offend someone who will turn out to be a formidable oppo­nent. 
Taurus: Circumstances force you into a community or sharing situation. Feelings of privacy and possessiveness will not be useful emotions today. 
Gemini: You look and act only as good as you feeL Be kind to your body, or it will begin to rebel. Relaxation is the first and best cure, but you may need to go deeper into the health care system to fix what is bothering you. 
Cancer: This is your day for fun, whatever that means to you. Play at love, play at art, or just play in the sandbox. 
Leo: Today you are run the risk of overdoing it. Put a lid on your bluster and use some of that ego ener­gy for a socially useful task. 
Virgo: This is your day of empowerment. Find your voice and begin a dialogue with those you hope to influence. Others will won­der why you have been silent for so long . 
Libra: The time has come to face financial issues. You might need to 
CHAIN LETTERS 
EVERYONE. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Struck, old-style s Uneven hairdo 9 Winery in 
Modesto, Calif. 14 Yesterday's 
dinner today 15 Smog 16 To no--­
(futilely) 17 Actor John. once married to Shirley Temple 18 Appliance on a board 19 Greene of "Bonanza" 20 "The Lone Ranger" catch 
phrase 23 Carryall 24 "Eureka!" 

Regent Street 22 Charged -=+-:-+::+:::-1 25 Pork, to a Jew, e.g. -=-+--+::+:::-1 26 Maine campus town 
=+:-+:::-! 11 Zhivago's love 12 Streaked 13 Matador's cheer 21 It borders 


l l l 
1 
I 
..... I 
I 
I 
-Wanted: Reporters and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
give a little now in order to get a lot later. Materialistic habits may be at the root ofyour problems. 
Scorpio: Your only limit today is the far edge of your imagination. The powerhouse duo of Pluto and Mars are both on your team. Think big, talk loud, and live large. 
Sagittarius: Your situa­tion becomes confused today. You feel out of step with others in a parade that goes nowhere. 
Capricorn: This is one day when the words "let's do lunch" are a promise instead of a kiss-off. You overflow with some intan­gible quality that everyone else wants. Even [air­weather friends are hard to despise today. 
Aquarius:This is not a good day to be caught in the glare of public atten­tion. Your basic needs are loud today, and you want to attend to them in pri­vate. Friends who can read your moods are happy to leave you alone. 
Pisces:Everything pleas­es you today. Simple tasks and ideas resonate with deep meaning and great importance. Imagine what will happen if you find an activity that you enjoy even under normal conditions. 
48 "Star Trek" catch phrase 55 In concealment 56 Report cards' stats 57 Pained look 58 Writer Nin 59 Needle case 60 College in New Rochelle 61 Whom Jason jilted 62 Part to play 63 Hatfields or McCoys, e.g. 
DOWN 
1--of Iran 2 Travelers to Bethlehem 3"--,old 
chap!" 4 Choke 5 Many an Iranian 6 Home of poet 
Langston Hughes 7 Asia's Sea of 
aTrait carrier 9 Lancelot's son 10 Promise 
43 Grinder 44 State capital on the 
Mississippi 45 Singer Smith 48 Rib, for one 49 "Heavens to 
Betsy!" 

so Elbe tributary 
51--no good 
52 Cat's-paw 
53 Cape Cod catch 
54 Bear young, as sheep 55 Beaver's work 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (751t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 vears: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ______________________________________________ Address City--------State ____Zip______ 
• 
4

.,.-­
'
' !' ..
1\c' 
I 
F 
jlj ''~ 
li' SPORTS 
I 
. 
page 20 Tuesday, February 17, 1998
l' 
i 
' 
l 

• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

may be a bit of an understate­
Upcoming UConn 
ment. 

After losing three of their last game crucial for four, the Irish head into the final four games of the regularpostseason hopes season knowing that if they will 
\ 
be doing any kind of dancing at
\ 
By JOE CAVATO

( 
all in March it will hinge on the
Assistant Sports Editor 

outcome of the next several 
1
, weeks.
To say it's crunch time for the 


"This is a very important
Notre Dame basketball team 

stretch for us," freshman center 
II 
.I i 

In tonight's contest against the Huskies, the Irish will have to rely on reserves like Leviticus Williamson. 
• MEN's SWIMMING 

Season ends with win streak intact 
ByMATTYUNG Sports Writer 

l 
/I The men's swimming and diving team fittingly concluded its reg­ular season on Valentine's Day, recording a 131-105 victory over Wisconsin-Milwaukee to finish 11-1. 
The win completed an eight meet win-streak with the team's last loss occurring over three months ago to Texas Christian. The win also gave the team the third most victories in school history and the most since the 1992-1993 season when they went 11-2. 
"We did really well," senior captain Steven Cardwell said about the season. 
"The neat thing was that we beat everyone soundly that beat us last year, none of our meets were really in question, we're doing the right things in and out of the pool ... from the beginning of the year our goal has been to finish third in the Big East Championships. First may be a little unrealistic, but we could 
see SWIM I page 15 




Hans Rasmussen said. "We feel that we arc an NCAA Tournament team; we've had our down times and had our up times but we can pull it out." 
The eighth -ranked Connecticut Huskies certainly provide Notre Dame an oppor­tunity to prove itself as they will visit the Joyce Center fresh off a 92-67 thumping of Pittsburgh. 
Tonight's contest starts a three game home-stand that head coach John MacLeod hopes will help reinvigorate his squad that currently stands at 12-10 overall and 6-8 in the Big East. 
"The fans at home are great," Rasmussen said. "They're loud and take the other team out of the game, so having these three right in a row at home is really going to help us and the crowd gets us going." 
The Irish will need a lot more than good crowd support if they hope to upset the Huskies who are 22-4 and 11-3 in the Big East. Connecticut has lost away games to St. John's, Miami and West Virginia. Conversely, Notre Dame defeated St. John's and West Virginia on the road but they will again be without the services of the most accu­rate three-point shooter in the conference in the person of Keith Friel. 
"We just need to play our game," Rasmussen said. "We need to worry about what we're going to do not what they are going to do to us." 
Huskies Richard Hamilton and Khalid El-Amin may give the Irish something to worry about. 
Hamilton will keep Notre Dame's defense busy as he did in his squad's 84-58 win over the Blue and Gold in early January. Hamilton poses one of the few threats to Pat Garrity's bid for back-to-hack Big East player of the year honors. 
The junior guard/forward's 
22.1 points per game ranks just behind Garrity's 22.8. Hamilton will extend the defense as his 45 percent shooting from behind the arc is just second in the conference to Friel's. 
Freshman sensation Khalid El-Amin averages 13.9 points and 4.3 assists per game as he controls the floor for the Huskies. Junior forward Kevin Freeman gets things done for his squad in the post as he chips in 11 points and 7.3 rebounds per outing. 
In the 26 point loss to the Huskies earlier this year, three 
see IRISH I page 16 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
The men's swimming and diving team defeated Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 131-105, to finish the season 11-1. 
Men's and Women's
Men's Basketball 


Swimming at 
vs. Connecticut 



• Track concludes its regular season 
Big East Championships 
Tonight at 7:30p.m. 
February 18-21 
see page 16 
Women's Tennis 
• Olympic Coverage
Women's Basketball 
at National Team Indoor 
vs. Georgetown 

see page 18
Championships
February 18 at 7 p.m. 
February 19-22 


