
• According to Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, 
H;h~}!!;~js~u~e~~~a~ home, others will 
Thursday

"We're down to basically wrapping up" the national 
spend fall break performing service. Check our 
budget.

where they'll be and what they'll be doing. 
OCTOBER 15,

Scene· 10-11 
World & Nation • 5 
1998 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 39 
• BUSINESS BEAT 

Woo advocates service learning 
Dean speaks to local business representatives 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assist.lllt Nrws Editor 
Blending academics and com­munity mindndness into service learning was tlw topic of College of Business Administration Dnan Carolyn Woo's address at a WndnPsday lunrlwon with local busirwss lnadnrs. 
Boughly 300 nwmlwrs of the local business community attPnded thn 11th annual l'n~sidnnt's Lunelwon for Michiana Business Lead<HS, hosted by Notn~ Damn pn~sidnnt Fatlwr l~dward Malloy. 
Tlw keynote addrnss for the afternoon event. Woo's speech advocated l"or-erndit service IParning 
"What we're looking at is a step in mlucational reform -to look at snrvicn not as extra-cur­ricular, but as a curricular activ­ity," Woo said. "This is not rn<m~ly a distinction in words but a st<1p forward for the American educational system." 
Service learning represents a junetion between credited classes and volunteerism. Woo explained. In her spench. she emphasized that service learning should be developed, implement­ed and regarded as a credit­earning, acadmnie service expe­rience. not merely as volun­tnerisrn. 
The University now offers 84 coursns that incorporate servien activities toward earning acade-

mic credit, such as the one-credit Appalachia seminar that will take place over fall break. 
"At Notre Dame we know that service is very much a part of our tradition -so is service learn­ing," Woo said. 
The address highlighted three little-known service learning ini­tiatives sponsored by the College of Business Administration. Marketing audit, external com­munications and database devel­
opment initiatives are each run to help local non-profit groups function more efficiently and effectively. 
After praising the general con­cept of service learning and advocating increased cooperation and support from local business­es, Woo introduced two Notre Dame students and let them explain their service learning 
see WOO I page 4 
WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Freddoso: Self-giving, sacrifice makes one holy 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writer 

Speaking yesterday about tlw eall to Catholic marriage, family and snxuality in thn mod<~rn world, philosophy professor Alfred Frnddoso outlined Pope John Paul II's position on thn family by drawing upon earlinr Church teach­ings. 
Drawing from the pontiff's 1981 apostoli<: e x h o r t a t i o n 'ALLOF US ARE CALLED " F a m i I i a r i s TO HOLINESS. BUT 
Consortio," , 

Freddoso talked WE OFfEN CAN T SEE IT FOR about the THE INSPIRING CHALLENGE Christian call to friendship with THAT IT IS.' 
God through the giving of self. 

AI.FilRD FllHDDOSO
"Marriage is a 

P/1/LUSOP//Y 1'1/0Fh'SSO/l 
form of self-giv­ing," said Freddoso. "It is only through sacrificial love that we can become holy." 

Freddoso explained that the Pope directed this exhortation specifically to Catholic elergy and laity. It assumed the a reader would have some understanding of Catholic theology and philoso­phy, Freddoso said. 
Freddoso laid the ground work for better understanding of the exhortation by reviewing the Catholic Church's call for individual respect and its universal call to holiness. 
"All of us are called to holiness," said Freddoso. "But we often can't see it for the inspiring challenge that it is." 
Freddoso explained that humanity's friendship with God can materialize through the sacrament of marriage and the complete giving of oneself to a spouse. He emphasized the Church's eall for Christians to give of themselves until they have nothing else. 
see CATHOLIC I page 4 
• STUDENT SENATE 

Folks updates group on revival of hall judicial boards 
ByTIM LOGAN 
Assistanr Nrws Editor 
Al'tnr snveral consecutivn s11ssions of lwated debatn on divisive campus issuPs, the Studnnt Snnatn last night addrnssml no nnw, old or con­troversial husirwss. Inst.r1ad thny lward an updatn on the nwival of hall judicial hoards from Judi<:ial Council prPsi­dnnl Knlly Jo'olks. 
Folks. who rnenntly took ovr~r tlw position from snnior .1.1'. Coonny, talk<Hl with thn snrHLtors about the progn1ss of t h11 II aII .lu di ei aI Co u n c i I Hnstoralion Committen. which is intnndnd to bring hack the hodins in an pf'f'ort to strnam­lirw tlw disciplinary process. 
Whnn a student is under suspicion of violating du Lae, his or lwr dorm rector may dndde tlw case independently 
or may refer it to either a hall judicial board or the office of Hesidence Life. Few dorms have acting judicial boards, however, and according to Folks, some rectors are unclnar on their options rngarding student discipline. 
"In a lot of halls there is no Judicial Board." Folks said. "Everything is sent to thn office of Hnsidnncn Life by dnl'ault, and Hesidence Lifn isn't real ph~ased with that." 
Each residence hall should have a judicial board to hnar disciplinary casns "which do not involve pastoral concerns," according to duLac. 
Thnre are also inconsisten­cies regarding hall disciplinary proeedurns, which contribute to the confusion about the process. 
"Some dorms don't send anything to Hesidence Life," Folks said. "It's discretionary according to the rector." 
One frustration expressed with the hall boards was the rather light nature of much of their cases. Examples of recent cases mentioned by senators ranged from open containers of alcohol in a hall­way to splashing water at an assistant rnetor. 
"In somn cases, it's so trivial that no one wants to go through the process lof being on a Judicial Board 1." said Morrissey senator Hyan Costantini. 
Hall Judicial Councils must be established in a hall's con­stitution. and therein lies another problem, according to Folks, who noted that many dorms lack a constitution, and only a few have recently 
see SENATE I page 4 

----------------·~------------------------~..~~.-------~~----~-------------------------~--------~-------------------------------~-~--~~--~ 
page 2 
Thursday, October 15, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 
• iNSIDE COLUMN 


Belle Boy 

I scrambled to get about 30 minutes of studying in for a quiz I had in a class at Saint Mary's. In that class, I am one of only two guys. I was running a bit late but made it safely through the rain and began the quiz. 
I didn't realize that that Tuesday, seemingly a carbon copy of every one of my Tuesdays and Thursdays this fall, meant something more to my classmates in the basement of Moreau Hall. 
It was Saint Mary's Pride Day. 

Our professor told us that once we finished the quiz, we could participate in the forming of the French Cross for a school picture. 
To me, this just meant I'd get out of class early and be able to snag a nap before din­ner. But then I had an experience that I'll remember for quite a while. 

One of my friendly Campus View neighbors, Andrea (a.k.a. Swoop of the Silverhawks), asked me if I was going to get in the picture. I chuckled and said, "I don't think I'm invited." 
She would have none of that as she pinned her Pride Day ribbon on my shirt, and we headed through the drizzle together to get into the picture. 
So there I was, the only male who wasn't a professor, among the women of Saint Mary's, showing my Saint Mary's pride. 
As we stood waiting for the camera man to do his thing, I was booed by a pack of Belles behind me. 
"I told you so," I said to Andrea. She told me to flash my ribbon. I did, and the jeers turned to cheers. 

I can understand why some people would be upset, thinking that I was making a farce of the event, but I certainly didn't mean any offense. In fact, I am a Saint Mary's student. I'm taking my second class at Saint Mary's, and I didn't take those classes to get dates. And if that were the case, I would have failed both. 
At class Thursday I shared my experience of being chastised and then accepted. I saw an evil look or two, but most of the class could have-cared less. One of my classmates even rea~.sured me, saying "Well, we love you, Joe. 
This experience has made me think about what Saint Mary's has provided me. My class last semester helped me get an internship with the South Bend Tribune and my current class is not available on the east side of US 31. 
Taking classes at a women's college has been a unique learning experience in itself. I've come to learn that Saint Mary's is a asset and shouldn't be taken for granted. 
While the people of Saint Mary's share many similarities with us Domers, there are subtle differences that make Saint Mary's valuable. 
I can't pinpoint what those differences are, but they r.xist and make Saint Mary's great. 
From the Saint Mary's staff of The Observer, both past and present, to my always-r.ntertaining and kindly neighbors, to seeing mr.mbcrs of my class on the dance floor at Heartland, I've always been greeted with a friendly face and a kind word. 
To make a long story short, I just wanted to say that it doesn't go unappreciated. 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Contract problem delays dog cloning project at Texas A&M 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas the project. 
Legal problems are slowing down Researchers arc planning to oper­efforts to clone the first dog at Texas ate with a 10-pcrson staff during the A&M University, the Missyplicity pro­project and are currently interviewing ject manager said Tuesday. Lou applicants for assistants. Hawthorne, project manager and the In a "super meeting" recently held president of the Bio Arts Research at Texas A&M, researchers and Corp., said he hopes to meet with Hawthorne met with consultants from Texas A&M officials within the next the University of Georgia. Cornell two weeks to resolve the dispute over University, the San Diego Zoo and the contract he signed with the Texas Texas A&M University. Agricultural Experiment Station. Kraemer said each of the four con­
"I am very optimistic that we can sultants working with the team has 
Missy's owners are funding the $2.3 
smooth things over," Hawthorne said. expertise in an area relating to the 
"We were called by a Texas A&M million cloning project, in hopes of cloning project. lawyer, who questioned the validity of Texas A&M scientists' specialties
producing another dog like her within the contract. The contracts were were chosen to complement work in
the next two years. The investors put signed in good faith. My job is to find the Missyplicity project. Texas A&M
$500,000 into the project during the out what party was not included and was selected to participate in the
first annual quarter. what party needs to be included." cloning among applicants across the
Mark Westhusin, lead scientist in The Texas Agricultural Experiment United States. Westhusin specializes
the Missyplicity project and a Texas Station, part of the Texas A&M in nuclear transfer, Kraemer in
A&M professor of veterinary medi­University system. signed an agree­cine, will work with colleagues Duane embryo transfer and Burghardt in tis­ment in July with the Bio Arts and Kraemer and Robert Burghardt on sue culturing and analysis. 
• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA • UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA Legislation addresses campus crime Bond may bring $2.5 billion to systems 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. LA JOLLA, Calif. 
Campus security legislation signed into law by President Proposition 1A, a $9.2 billion public-school bond that 
Clinton last week has UF officials questioning how their would be used for construction and modernization of edu­
own long-standing policies about student crime reporting cational facilities in California, will be on the ballot for 
will change. The new legislation, called the Foley November's elections. If approved, Proposition 1A would 
Amendment, is part of Congress' Higher Education Bill provide $2.5 billion over the next four years to the 
and requires all public and private colleges participating University of California, the California State University and 
in federal student aid programs to disclose to the public the California Community College systems. The funds 
detailed crime information about students. Under this new would go toward building renovation, modernization in 
law, colleges would no longer be able to hide students' the science programs and utility systems, and expansion 
violent criminal behavior in closed campus courts.. Dean of for enrollment growth. "It (Proposition lA) would target 
Students Julie Sina said she does not think UF is prepared enrollment programs in the engineering and sciences in 
to change its tradition of protecting students' privacy. "We order to help out the state work force," Brad Hayward, a 
definitely have some decisions to make," Sina said earlier spokesman from the UC Office of the President, said. The 
this week. "I certainly feel strongly about protecting stu­other $6.7 billion would go to California K-12 schools for 
dents' privacy." Congress' amendment gives colleges room construction, modernization and reduction of class sizes. 
to decide whether or not to make public the final outcome Hayward said 1A would provide the UC system with about 
of a student's trial, Sina said. $210 million a year over the next four years. 
• HARVARD lh\IIVERS!TY • OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY Urban Outfitters pulls racist costumes Community questions race intiatives 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. COLUMBUS, Ohio 
A boycott of Urban Outfitters by Asian-American student Some members of the Ohio State community are skepti­
groups around the country forced the chain to pull an cal about two initiatives President William "Brit" Kirwan 
offending "Chinese Man" Halloween costume from its announced last week to improve campus race rr,Jations. 
shelves. The costume includes a Fu-Manchu style mus­"These initiatives are excellent as long as they are fol­
tache, a pigtail, glasses and a cap. The boycott was orga­lowed up by work, sincerity, honesty and commitment," 
nized by Richard M. Lee, a professor of educational psy­said Love Ali, spokeswoman for the Afrikan Studr.nt 
chology at the University of Texas at Austin. Lee sent e-mail Union. Last spring, the union organizr.d the nine-day 
messages to Asian-American student groups across the occupation of Bricker llall, protesting tlw restructuring of 
country notifying student leaders of the costume. "It depicts the Office of Minority Affairs. Kirwan's first initiative 
a whole group (i.e. all Chinese men) as looking like this per­includes a diversity fair to takr. place Thursday, and town 
son and.. .it is based on a racist image of Asian Americans," meetings and educational !ir.ld trips throughout tlw year. 
Lee wrote in the messag1;1. Harvard's Asian American Under the second initiative, OSU will hire a r:onsultant to 
Association (AAA) joined the boycott after learning of it last analyze women and minority recruitment and ret<~ntion 
week through thr. organization's e-mail newsletter. Jay M. and make recommendations on potential policy changns. 
Hammer, director of stores and graduate of llarvard "These initiatives seem very circular in what's been going 
Business School, said yesterday that he decided to pull the on in the past," said Jeff Capell, president of tlw OSU 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• lOOAY's STAFF 
News Michelle Krupa Scene Erica Thesing 

Loubel Cruz 
Maggy Tinucci 
Graphics
Sports 

Cristin Manary 
Anthony Bianco 

Lab Tech 
Viewpoint Jeff Hsu 
Eddie Llull 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhC' Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


costumes last Thursday after Lee contacted him. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 

Thursday ~63 39 Friday. ~ 73 38 Satur~ay ~ 74 51 sunday ~' 64 54 Monday ~60 52 
~~ ~/';_~ .. 

9,Q,~A88 {) ~ u 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Associated Press GraphicsNef 

College Republicans. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
"T""T' 

<C> 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD 
P,..ssur•:
®©DDc::::::Jc:JuD r) ''¥:w-$.;@!~ 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow tee Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta  82  55  Fargo  59  53  Miami  88  76  
Boise  52  31  Juneau  46  41  Milwaukee  60  57  
Boston  52  31  Kansas City 80  64  New York  64  48  
Chicago  63  53  Lincoln  79  61  Orlando  86  68  
Denver  70  38  Los Angeles 72  60  St. Paul  59  50  


Thursday, October 15, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Fresh from the deep sea 

Commander talks to ROTC students 

C
ornrnandPr CPcil I lanny visitml Notm Damn yesterday in an nfl'ort to educate about and possi­bly meruit studPnt HOTC nwmlmrs for service in the navy's nudear pmgram. 
llarwy. a n~dpiont of this year's prestigious Vice Admiral Stockdale ;\ward for Inspirational Lnadorship, nott~d thrnn major racnts of the program. induding the prestige of the submarine force in the, nuclnar program, tlw sub's role in national security and tho responsibility of those serving on subs. 
"flo gavn nw a nnw perspective from a training oflicer's point of view," said junior Matt Ulman. midshipman second class. "I mean, he's the best. lie gave me the feel that a sub is really an elite class." 
While Ulman has ynt to deeidn wlwther he will serve on submarinns after graduation, he does have a rww resped and unch~rstanding for "driving a billion-dollar boat when you're 23 years old." -Michelle Krupa 

Pholos by Jeff Hsu 

ND business professor named chair of AIMR 
Your Way Value Meal with crispy fries. 
OR 
Your Way Value Meal with tasty onion rings. 
It's a tough choice. But you can handle it. 
There's a tasty new way to "Have It Your Way"'"at Burger King~ But which to choose? Our hot, crispy fries with your V.Uue Meal? Or our tasty onion rings with your value Meal? They both cost the same price and they're both unbelievably delicious. So maybe you should go for two V.Uue Meals. Then you could get one ofeach. 
The Huddle-LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better."' 
C 1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Burger King, 
Have It Your Way. It jusl lasles beller and Bun Halves logo lrademarks. 
Special to The Observer 
Frank Heilly, Bernard llank Professor of Business Administration at Notre Dame, has been elected chair of the board of governors of the Association for Investment Management and Hesearch (AIMR) for 1999. 
A leading scholar in the analysis of stock market behavior, Heilly is the author of three books and more than 100 articles in the field of finance. 
His textbook on money man­agement, "Investment Analysis and Portfolio Management," is in its fifth edition. 
It is used as a textbook in some 150 colleges and is the required text for the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) examination. He has 
• CORRECTION 
In Wednesday's Observer, a page one headline read. "Asia cri­sis may effect job market." The headline should have read. "Asia crisis may affect job market." 
The Observer regrets the error. 

long been active with the In s ti t u t e o f C h a r t n r (\ d Financial Analysts and has served as chair of the board of trustees. 
Graduated from Notre Dame in 1957, He illy earned his master's of business adminis­tration ~egree from Northwestern University and his doctoral degree from tiH\ University of Chicago. liP­came to Notre Dame as dean of the College of Business Administration in 1981 after previously teaching at the Universities of Kansas. Wyoming and Illinois, and held the deanship until 1987. 
;\IMH. is the leading non­profit professional association in the investment industry. serving investment analysts, portfolio managers and other investment decision maknrs. 

----=:---~--~---------~-­
Thursday, October 15, 1998 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate  create a resolution on the issue. "The main thing for this  
continued from page 1  committee to accomplish is to provide the Senate with infor­ 
updated ones. This is another issufl which is being addressed by the student gov­ernment Judicial Council.  mation about the clause and its ramifications," she said. The committee's research will focus on other Catholic  
Folks said that members of  universities which have ­and  
her committee are meeting with dorm rectors and mem­ have not -adopted sexual orientation in their nondis­ 
bers of hall governments to help them form constitutions. In other senate news:  crimination clauses, as well as the financial, legal and theo­logical implications of the  
-Student body vice presi­dent Andrea Selak discussed  statement. The Senate recently passed  
the formation of the Senate's  a resolution calling on the  
ad hoc committee to research  Academic Council to add sexu­ 
the addition of sexual orienta­ al orientation to the clause  
tion to the University's legal nondiscrimination clause.  and was criticized for making such a suggestion without  
The committee will  doing thorough research. The  
"research all aspects of the nondiscrimination clause in a  Council has since discussed the matter and voted to hold  
nonbiased way," Selak said. She also pointed out that the body is not solely intended to  off their decision until Nov. 17, in order to study the issue more closely.  
Woo  last year to work with microbusinesses in account­ing, marketing and opera­ 
continued from page 1  tions. "We learned from the work  
experiences. Amanda Deerhake, a senior chemical engineering major, spoke about her work with Engineering Projects in Community Service. EPICS groups work with community service agencies to develop projects that utilize students' technical skills.  what it is like to get started. what it is like to put all of your hopes in one business plan," Gregory said. "We're hoping to do more, to work with small businesses here." In her closing remarks, Woo reemphasized that service learning should not be regard­ed as volunteerism but rather  
"Students rnceive academic  as a credit-earning, academic  
credit and the personal satis­faction that comes from com­ service experience. "I want to extend thanks to  
munity service," Deerhake said.  all of you who are our friends and neighbors in this rflgion,"  
As an example of one such project, Deerhake spoke of developing a database to help Charles Martin Youth Center  Malloy said in welcoming the attendees. Malloy spoke briefly of strengthening Notre Dame's ties with South Bend's  
track appointments and space utilization. The City of Elkhart environmental center and the  business leaders before turn­ing to lunch and introducing Woo.  
South Bend Heritage Foundation· are other direct  Wednesday's event was sponsored by the corporate  
beneficiaries of the EPICS pro­gram.  relations department of Notre Dame's Development Office.  
"A great university stands  
apart from a good university beeause of a positive relation­ship with its community," Deerhake told the assembled  ADOPTION ABC'S, 1,2,3'S, AND  
audience of business people.  CLIMBING TREES.  
Valerifl Gregory. a second­ CARING COUPLE IS  
year MBA student, then spoke about servicfl learning in an international context. Gregory told of her work to pioneer  SEEKING A BABY TO LOVE & CHERISH. LET US HELP YOU  
entrepreneurialship in South  THROUGH THIS DIFFI­ 
Africa with campus volun­ CULT TIME. EXPENSES  
teers. Through her efforts, threfl students traveled to Capetown  PAID. Joan & Bill-1-800-311-1663  



HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES -CHILE 

Information Session Thursday, October 15th, 7: !5pm @ the Center for Social Concerns 
Learn more about the HCA Chile program. Bring your questions, pick up an application, and hear about the challenges and opportunities of spending two years of service in Chile! 
Holy Cross Associates PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 1-5521 Fax: 1-6813 E-mail: nd.hcassoc.l @nd.edu http://www.nd.edu:80/-hcassoc/ 


Catholic 
continued from page 1 
This idea of complete self­giving sgares many Christians, admitted Freddoso. Although hard to accept, the idea of gaining one's life by losing it can become possible through the sacraments, prayer and acts of self-denial. 
"The Pope realizes that there are many people that find the idea of sacrificial love undesirable," said Freddoso, who condemned modern atti­tudes toward sex and love as self-fulfilling rather than self­giving. 
Freddoso also criticized the women's liberation move­ment, saying that it defied Catholic teaching by making abortion, contraception and divorce more accepted among Americans. 
"Sexual expression has a 
certain language built into it," 
said Freddoso. 
He explained that the sex 
act between two married peo­
ple should communicate the 
ideas of giving of one's whole 
self, faithfulness and willing­
ness to bear children. 
Using contraception as an 
example, Freddoso asked, "Is 
that Christ on the cross? Is 
that generosity?" 
Freddoso challenged mem­
bers of his audience to con­
template and educate them­
selves about the nature of 
marriage as Christians. 


And steer yourself toward success. Navis tar operates one of the world's largest facilities dedicated to the design, development and testing of trucks and truck components. And we can provide you with the challenges you're looking for in a post-graduate career. If you'll be receiving a BSME, MSME, BSEE or MSEE degree, meet us on campus at the: 
No~islor lnfor~nolion Session 
l:enler For l:onlinuing Edu«:olion 
Roo~n #11~ 
Wednesday, O«:toLer !18 
6:00piD 
On-campus representatives will be there to tell you all about the 200 Design Engineering positions avail­able at our l.eading-~dge co~pany. Along with the opportunity to apply the very latest technologies, we offer attractive startmg salanes, comprehensive benefit plans and outstanding advancement potential. Come for the information and stay for the refreshments. 
Can't attend? Send your resume or letter of interest to: Navistar International Transportation Corp., Attn: Human Resources, Dept. DNFP-1004, P.O. Box 1109, Ft. Wayne, IN 46801, Fax: (219) 461-1453. Em.ail: ata@navistar.com. Visit our web site at: www.mixi.net/-ntc2. An equal opportunity/affirmative actiOn employer m/f/d/v. 
Questions Or More Information Calll-888-347-3647 or (219) 461-7520. 


JUV/ST~R. 

Thursday, October 15, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• VI/QiaD Nt:WS BRIErS 
Nuclear safeguards to be tackled in talks today 
ISLAI\1/\H/\D, Pakistan 
SPI'king to Pasl' !'Pars of' a nuclPar con­l'ronlation. lop ol'f'irials from India and I'a kista n. tlw world's ni'WI'Sl nuriPar statPs, will 1111'1'1 today lo discuss saf'pguards. At the !wart of tiw four-day talks will be the disput­Pd n•gion of Kashmir. the llashpoint of' two lli'I'Vious wars, which has sournd n!lations IH'lWI'Pn t111• two South Asian countriPs sincP indPpPru!PnrP from Britain !i I yPars ago. ~vlany f'par tiw protractl'd disputP could c:ausc~ a nuriPar l'onllagralion on tlw Asian subron­linPnl. honw to morl' than I billion pPoplP, or11•-l'ourlh of lhl' world's population. Thn big worry among nurl1•ar non-prolil'c~rationists is !hal lhl' talks will bc•roml' thl' first stPp Inward ralionalit.ing tlw dPploynH•nt of' rnll'll'<ll' \\'c•apons. "Tiwy rould lw taking a 'ill'p down tilt' road to dPploynwnt. minimum di'II'I'I'I'IH'I'," said Sami'Pna t\hnwd. a dl'fPnsP I'Xpl'rl with ll11• ,\sia Foundation. 
North American diamond mine to open 
TOHONTO 
Thl' l'irsl world-class diamond mirw in North t\nH·rira lwgan production WPdrwsday, SI'VI'Il yc•ars aftpr a gPologist diswvPn~d thP lrl'asurl' undl'r thl' tundra of' far-nortlwrn Canada. ,\ plarwload or dignitariPS, including two Cahinl't ministPrs. travPII~d close to i\rrtir cirr!P for l'l'l'l'llloniPs inaugurating tlw l·:kati mirw bl'sidl' a rPmoln lakP in thP :'1/orlhwi'St TPr'l'iloriPs. Ovl'r tlw rwxt 25 ~·pars. thl' mirw is I'Xpl'rll'd to prodtrcl' $7 bil­lion (U.S.I worth of high-quality diamonds, roughly !i pl'l'l'l'nt of total global sail's. The rPII'!mtlions haw hc•l'n tc•mJwred slightly by a worldwidl' slump in tlw diamond industry, Whirh is faring OIH' of' its tougJwst yuars in two dl'radl's IH•c·ausl' of' tlw Asian linanc:ial rrisis. 
Yeltsin defeats amendment to limit power 
MOSCOW 
l'arlianwnt failed yPstPrday to gathPr Pnough voll's for scwc•ral Communist-pro­posl'd ronstitutional anwndmPnts that would sharply limit l'r·psidPnt Boris YPltsin's pow­PI's. Tlw <lllll'lHinwnts would havn givPn llw lo\\'l'r housl' ol' parlianwnt, tlw Statn Duma, rontrol ovl'r llw appointmnnts and dismissals ol' kl'y minislnrs and sncurity o!Ti!'ials and sln·ngllwn llw parlianwnt's rontrol ovm· tlw usl' ol' arnwd l'orc1~s on Hussian territory. llnd1•r 1111' rurTPnt l'onstilution. tlw Duma has lhl' right to approvn a primn minister but dol'sn't havn any say ovnr other Cabinet appointnwnts. Parliamcmt also has l'nw lcwm·s to inflw~rwn tlw governnwnt's eourse. indud­illg polil'il's on tlw usr~ of military foree. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS reporters. "Pretty elose, elections for congressional of it. But now wn'vn lwPn 
we'll sen," said a eontrol. struggling and we'vn forced 
WASIIINGTON Clinton administration offi­After weeks of stories on tlwm to dnbate about Pdu­
Whit!~ Ilouse and congres­cial. President Clinton's possible cation." 
sional budget bargairwrs all Agreement would elear impeachment dominating J.ott said cornpromisP had 
but eornp!Bted agreement the way for Congress to vote the news -including last b11nn rc~achnd on the Pduca­
Wednesday on a $500 bil­on a giant measure financ­week's vote to launeh a tion issuP. but it was not 
lion package of spending !'or ing dozens of departments House imp11achment inquiry imnwdiatPly dnar what tlw 
Pdueation and other pro­and agencies for tho federal -Democrats tried to use middle ground was. 
grams, breaking an impassn fiseal year that began Oct. the budget light to turn the Hopublicans had bPPn 
that has delayed 1. lneludod are the depart­focus onto their fight for insisting that loeal ofTidals 
Congress' departure for the ments of Health and Human more education monny. eontrol how tlH' rnonPy
Composite

+ 
10.73 Volume: year. Serviens, Education, During tho talks, Clinton would be used and that the 

+30.64 732.700,000 "We're down to the basi­State, Commerce, Justice had demanded $1.1 billion money also be eligible for rally wrapping up," said and Interior, as well as the to hire 100,000 more teach­speeial education and for
VOLUME LEADERS 

Senate Majority Leader foreign aid program. ers. such items as computers
I UMI!6~};: IU bi'U 'tit ru~~:Uit s Gal~ I'Birr Ill II t"OMI'l!rl R IH.J.l -0.47 -.2500 S2.7.SOO 
Trent l.ott, H-Miss. The vote could come as "We've already won," and books. 
I:\ Ill. CliRl' INTt" ·I 27 -1.0000 fi2 ..Sb2.S 
~:tlMI't\ll t tl\1\'ll fElt !"I'Q +-UIH. +1.0000 2~~o.S()(KI Other participants said an early as today. Hep. Jim MeDermott, D­Lott said it was still possi­
27 .. 1750 1\,\SI\,\\ll Rlt :\CORI' IIAt: -liU\9 -.S.HHU -HUl62.S announeement of the agree­
.\1'1'1 ~ C(lMI'lllflt Ml'l -:\.55 -l.:i7.SO A deal would also mark Wash., said even before the ble that a modest paekage 
Mll:\\A:'\rtlt ll \fTC -H. II -3.00{)(1 H.OOOO t l~t tl~V~ti·M~ CSl'O +2.K4 +l.-1.\75 52.1250 
ment seemed imminent. the end of a week of politi­deal was eompletnd. "If of expiring tax breaks for 
\tiWIWSOHI'tlH.I' \ISH +'i,H'J +.i.7SOO IOO.IH75 
I ENilANT t 'Oitl' <ll ·H.27 -0.!\tJOt, "We're very close to a cal brinkmanship that the we'd have gone out with our business and others might M< I \VORl \l t ·o~t INI' +2 +1.0000 47.5000 last vote bning on impeach­
9.H75.0 

WCOM I~ deal," House Speaker Newt two political parties waged still bn included in thn mas­Gingrich, H-Ga., told leading up to the Nov. 3 ment, that would be the end sive spending measurn. 




r---~--.~..--------------------------------------.....----~---------------------.....~---~-----­
page 6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 15, 1998 
Israel wants proof of security 
Conference addresses West Bank terrorism 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration, responding to Israel's security concerns, is preparing to pre­sent Yasser Arafat with a docu­ment that ~-~~ calls for "very specif­ic" steps to counter ter­rorism on the West Bank. Israeli ambassador ~Llii-~UII Zalman Shoval said Wednesday. 
On the eve of the summit being convened by President Clinton, Shoval said Arafat runs a risk along with Israel if the militant l-lamas organization is not uprooted on the West Bank. 
"Without the security docu­ment in place we cannot sign an agreement," Shoval said at a news conference. 
Clinton is to open the summit at the White House today, greeting Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and then go to the site of the talks, on Maryland's eastern shore, for further meet­ings with them in the afternoon and evening. 
In a flurry of telephone calls Wednesday he spoke with Arafat, Netanyahu, British Prime Minister Tony Blair and King Hussein of Jordan, who is hospitalized at the Mayo Clinic 
Arafat 


Attention Freshmen! 
The Class of 2000 Council is hold­ing aT-shirt design contest. The ] > winning entry may be featured on 
~ s  this year's Class T-Shirt.  
~  
lL g  To enter, Pick up rules and an  
r.l..  entry form at the Student  
c  Government office in LaFortune.  
~  
n_  
t e s  Entries Due Oct. 2 8!  
t  

in Rochester, Minn., for cancer therapy. 
Clinton also met for two hours with Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Sandy Berger, his assistant for nation­al security. 
"He wants to be involved throughout," a White House official said at a briefing held under rules that shielded his identity. "I expect he will spend lots of time there." 
On the Palestinian side, Saeb Erekat, a senior negotiator, said the Israeli pullback under dis­cussion must be followed by a third one even if the two sides agree to move to negotiations on a final settlement. 
"Rest assured we have a poli­cy of zero-tolerance for terror­ism," Erekat said at a news conference. 
Erekat said if a final agree­ment and the withdrawals are not completed by May 4 -a deadline projected in interim accords between Israel and the Palestinians -Arafat simply will declare the establishment of a Palestinian state. 
Palestinian promises to con­strict l-lamas, which claims responsibility for several bloody attacks on Israeli civilians, will not suffice, Shoval said. "We have so many general promises we can paper the walls with them," he said. 
Spokesmen at the White House and State Department echoed Israel's concerns and condemned the latest incident, an attack that killed one Israeli and wounded another as they swam in a spring on a commu­nal farm outside Jerusalem. 
"We join him in condemning the violence that took place," Joe Lockhart, the president's spokesman, said of Netanyahu's denunciation of the attack. 
Netanyahu warned Tuesday that "without fulfillment of all Palestinian security commit­ments there will not be an agreement." 
Meanwhile, CIA director George Tenet has been in the region consulting with Israeli and Palestinian officials on tougher security measures. 
State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said l-lamas extremists "are a threat to everyone in the Middle East," including Arafat. "We have a common enemy and that is l-lamas," he said. 
Rubin confirmed, meanwhile, that the Clinton administration was "trying to stitch together a package of measures that will fight terrorism." 
The State Department official said breaking up the l-lamas infrastructure was one goal. Shoval, meanwhile, said Israel's demands that illegal weapons be confiscated, terrorist cells uprooted, and terrorist suspects not be released from prison. 
Shoval also reiterated Israel's demand that the Palestine Liberation Organization either scrap its covenant or cancel the 29 provisions he said call for Israel's destruction. 
Rubin indicated the adminis­tration would not press the point at the summit. He said the Palestinians had taken action on the charter and that any fur­ther changes should be taken up by Israel with the Palestinians. 
Shoval confirmed that Netanyahu had agreed to relin­quish 13 percent of the West Bank to the Palestinian Authority, with 3 percent turned into a nature preserve. He said. security issues would "make or break" the conference at the Wye River House in Maryland. 
A redeployment of Israeli forces on the West Bank and specific security measures by the Palestinians are the "two pillars" of any accord, Shoval said. 

umtaLf~a 
• PERU 
A01erican prisoner undergoes testing 
Associated Press Technology student, was con­victed in 1996 by a hooded LIMA. Peru military judge for helping left­Doctors may recommend ist rebels of the Tupac Amaru that an American woman Revolufio-nary Movement plan serving a life sentence for a thwarted assault on Peru's 
treason be allowed to remain Congress. at the less-harsh prison Her family says she is inno­where she was taken for cent and that her trial in a 
medical tests, prison officials secretive military court said Wednesday. denied her due process. ller 
New York native Lori parents last week petitionedBerenson, 28, was moved last the Organization of American week from the frigid States to review her case. 
Yanamayo prison 12,700 feet In Yanamayo, she sleptabove sea level in the Andes under eight blankets to pro­mountains to a lower-altitude tect her from the freezingclinic for medical tests. wind whipping through her 
But the length of her stay at cell window, whieh had no Socabaya prison, 465 miles glass. She bathed in eold southeast of Lima, would water. depend on the results of med­She has suffered from ical tests, prison officials said. laryngitis almost constantly,Socabaya is 7,600 feet above and her hands are cracked sea level. and swollen, her mother 
Berenson suffers from Hhoda Berenson has said. arthritis, chronic gastritis, a Prison of!icials have asked throat infection and circulato­Peru's National Penitentiary ry problems from the alti­Institute to transfer Berenson tude, doctors said. to a maximum security prison Prison officials said that while she undergoes treat­
there is no serious threat to ment because Socabaya was her health and that she was not intended to house prison­transferred because ers convicted of terrorism or Yanamayo lacked medical treason. 
facilities. In Socabaya, shn is not per­Berenson, a former mitted contact with other Massachusetts Institute of prisoners. 

"'""i'Y'iiifti?ijj()ltrihingofPeatlHarbor are 
entitled to $20,000, and anese Latin Americans 
were taken from South America and sent to intern­ment camps in Texas are each entitled to $5,000. 
The 1988 Civil Uberties Act provided'the money and mandated whatever remains 
:··after payments be placed in itan interest-bearing account. 
U.S. Justice Department spokeswoman Christine DiBartolo said the money was invested in an interest­
~y the ,bearing account, although 
t $200 ··-··-·-· the funds were not invested immediately because repara­tions were being dispersed too quickly. There are 47 cases await­ing immediate $20,000 pay­ment, an additional 427 _________ claims still under review, and 
· -· · 740 unresolved cases involv­ing Japanese Latin Americans, according to the plaintiffs. 


Thursday, October 15, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
House may narrow tnqutry 
{read between the lines} 

Use your AT&T Student Advantage Card 
so you won't get bl1nds1ded with hidden serv1ce charges-on every call1ng card call before you've even said hello. 

20¢ a minute. 24 hours a day. And no per call service charge. 
Why would you use anything else? 
Smart move. You got the new AT & T Student Advantage Card. But why aren't you using 1t as your calling card? It's just 20¢ a minute whenever, wherever you call in the U.S. With no per call service charge: No monthly fee. And no gimmicks. Don't have one yet? Call I 800 654-0471 or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
Use your AT&T Student Advantage Card as your AT&T Calling Card. 

AT&T 

It's all within your reach."' 
•Refers to the AT & T One Rate" College Plan. Plan ratE-S do not a~ply to tn~stdte calls m Alaska. Other tn-st,ltf' Cdlltng rJrd rates mc\y vary pending statt'" tanff effecttve dates. Applies to domesttc call1ng can:! wlls you d~al your>elf uSing 1-800 CALL ATI. Add1l1onal 30¢ sun:harge applies to call1ng card calls placed from pay phones. Call for deta~ls ©1998 AT&T 
Hyde might trim charges to expediate process 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Whitn llouse and House Judiciary Committee lawyers will mont next week for the first time to discuss the impeach­ment inquiry into President Clinton's conduct. The session next Ttwsday will be held as the committee's <'hairman considors trimming Dec. 31. 

Republicans postponed on Wednesday the only impeach­ment-related hearing scheduled prior to the election, an Oct. 22 subcommittee session at which scholars were to testify on his­torical standards for removal from office. Since the House has remained in session longer than expected this year. lawmakers did not want to interrupt their campaigns to return for thn hearing, oflicials said. 
Rep. Bobby Scott, D-Va., ranking Democrat on thn Constitution subrommitteo, said if llepublieans really want to streamline the inquiry. they would hold thn hearing on schedule. Then, he said, thn .Judiciary Committee could 
b;u:k the allegations. Paul McNulty, a 

'UNLIKE THE DEMOC­rize an investigation
spokesman for the com­
without limits on sub­

RATS, CHAIRMANmitten, said Wednesday 
ject matter or time.

tho panel's lawyers 
HYDE HAS REMAINED CON­llydn has often
would invite White 

SISTENT IN HIS VIEWS ON expressed his ynar1md
llouse counsel Charles goal, but only in tlw last

F.C. Huff' "to providn us THIS MATIER.' two days has hn talknd
with exculpatory infor­
of streamlining the alln­mation." 
The meeting also 
would cover how the 
House and the White 
House could "work 
together to expedite the 
process," McNulty said. 
Hep. Henry Hyde. ll-111.. the 
committee's chairman, said he 
may reduce the number of' alle­
gations against Clinton in order 
to finish the panel's \o\;ork by the 
end of' the year and recommend 
whether or whether not the 
House should begin impeach­
ment proceedings. Democrats 
suggested Hyde was reacting to 
public opinion polls. 
As Hyde was declaring his intention to "streamline" the inquiry, a new poll indicated a majority of Americans disap­prove of the way llepublicans ·are handling the impeachment 
investigation. 
In remarks that an aide insist­
ed were unrelated to poll num­
bers, Hyde. R-Ill., told a 
reporter, "We might have to 
reduce" allegations against 
Clinton if the inquiry is to meet 
Hyde's self-imposed deadline of 
Hyde 
PAUL McNUI.TY gations.The nnw poll released 

SPOKESMAN FOil TIIH }UDICIAIIY COMMI7THE W d 1 l CNN
n nesr ay, JY • 

determine standards for impeachment and decide whether the allegations meet those standards. 
In a written statement, llyde said the committee would "focus on the core charges against the president of lying under oath, obstruction of jus­tice and witness tampering." Chief committee investigator David Schippers has prepared 15 "substantial and credible" grounds for impeachment. four more than Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr presented. 
Asked whether he was giving lesser weight to Schippers' alle­gation that Clinton "may have been part of a conspiracy with Monica Lewinsky," Hyde said, "I couldn't make that judgment now." 
Hyde, who also mentioned in Wednesday's edition of The Washington Post the possibility of reducing the number of 

BRAff IAGLI FAit\ILli' BILLBOARDf 
Student SpaciaiJ~~ 1/2 price ($1.50/hr.) 3-6 pm Mon· fri. 
· :.==mw 

~. ~,~ (ft!-e ~I~ ~J 
::-<T· ··VU 

28 Tables rz. 8, 9,1 0, & 12 feetJ 
charges, emphasized his volun­tary deadline won't be met "without cooperation from the White House and committee Democrats." 
Paul McNulty, a spokflsman for Judiciary Committee Republicans, said: "Unlikfl the Democrats. chairman llyde has remained consistent in his views on this matter. lie promised to conduct a fair. focus<~d and expeditious inquiry, and he continues to dr~livnr on that promiso." 
llyde said lw hnlicvnd tlw public was tirml of tlw Clinton­Lcwinsky matter but insistnd, "I haven't looked at any particular polls. My sense is thorn's a burnout factor." 
Last Thursday. llydn led tlw 
dnbatn as Hepublieans 
won a bitterly partisan 
25R-17rl vote to autho­
USA Today and tlw 
Gallup organization. indicated that 55 percent of likely vot<~rs disapprovn of the way Hepublicans are handling the curmnt investigation, while 43 percent approve. 
That disapproval crossns party lines, however. because half the likely votnrs disapprove of the way Democrats are han­dling the investigation as well. 
A majority of Iik!~ly voters, 54 percent, favors impeachment hearings, although they opposn an impnachment trial or Clinton's ouster. 
The poll of 1,004 adults was last weekend and has a margin of error of plus or minus :3 per­centage points. The sampln of 461 likely voters has a margin of error of plus or minus 5 per­centage points. 
Some Democrats on the com­mittee said they believe Republicans have been affected by a backlash resulting from an unpopular investigation. 
Got news? Call 1-5323 

p~ sz~g A~ $344 H~ $341 
.,.. from Indian~ ... each way baNd on • RT purchua. Fern do nOC tndude ta.xel, which can 1otal betw.en SJ and $10. lnt1 Student ID m.,-tM F"equlr.d. F.,... .,.. Y&Ud for deJMirNrel 
In krw teuon and .,... subfect to chana•· 
Rutrkt~nt apply. Cal fOf' our tow domeftk: and fare1 to other worid wkfe deltlnatloi"'L Don't forpt to order your Eu,..llpa..l 
ltravel.com 


VIEWPOINT 
• FoR A MORE JUST AND HUMANE WORlD 
Food for All: Right or Goal? 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ...............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Uull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag CoNTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
The Obsc=rver is the: independent newspaper publisht"d by rhe students of the Universiry ofNO[re Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administration ofeither instillltion. The news is reported as accurardy and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represc:nr the opinion ofche m3:joricy of rhe 
Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assinam Managing Editor and departmt:n( editors. Commen(aries, leHers and columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Contaqing The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 63I-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 63I-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General1nformation 63I-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
----------------Thursday, October 15, 1998 
Katy Gallagher is a Senior American Studies major. Susie Grandin is a Senior Government major. Kathleen Maas Weigert is the Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research at the Center for Social Concerns. Senior Kris Bree and Junior Doug Jones, both Government majors. also helped prepare this column. 
The following is based on a conversa­tion at the Center for Social Concerns among three people interested in issues ofhunger ... 
KATHLEEI>l: Well, here it comes again! "World Food Day-Oct. 16." Hard to believe that there are 1.3 billion people living in absolute poverty with an income of less than a dollar a day. There must be something we can do to let peo­ple know about it. 
KATY: I first heard about it last sum­mer when I was in Washington, D.C., working with a group on international children's issues. They had information on topics that touched on the well-being of children, and food was one. It was in that material that I discovered there was such a thing as World Food Day. 
SUSIE: I did some work at a soup kitchen in San Francisco a few years back, and I also helped coordinate a meals-on-wheels program at Yuma Proving Grounds in Arizona. But World Food Day is new to me, and I would like to Jearn more about hunger issues on a global scale and share that with others on campus. How'? 
KATY: I wonder whether people are missing the point. All those TV images of starving people: those swollen stomachs on the kids, those sad eyes of the moth­ers, the listlessness of them all. I don't know, but I don't think we can just keep taking those kinds of pictures. They are depressing, and they don't seem to be getting the point across. We need a more substantive kind of awareness. 
SUSIE: Well, maybe we could give peo­ple facts but also some ways in which hunger is being addressed. Maybe if ference for you'? people saw a way to get involved with­SUSIE: I think dispelling myths about out a large commitment and without the hunger issues is important. Maybe we guilt, they would be willing to get can put up flyers that educate people involved. about the reality and true causes of 
KATY: Yeah, I agree. Maybe we could hunger in the world today. I bet most start by telling people that they could people think that there is not enough watch this year's World Food Day food to feed everyone in the world teleconference which has -"77':""""7'-·-today when, in fact, abun­
for its topic, "Food for All: Right or Goal'?" Even the name seems to pro­voke some thought about what people really believe. 
SUSIE: Yes, it does. But watching a telecon­ference'? Especially the Friday before fall break'? I think that might be asking too much for most people. Maybe we can come up with something a little more exciting or at least more person-al.than a group of "talking heads." 
KATHLEEN: For me, several things make a difference, like celebrating anniversaries. This year is the 50th anniversary of the signing of the U.N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 25 which says, "Everyone has the right to ... an adequate standard of living ... including food ... " Or data that help me frame the issue, like the fact that more than 800 million people worldwide-(out of a world population of almost 6 billion) -are chronically undernourished. Does that make a dif­
dance, not scarcity, best describes the world's 
food supply. KATY: Suzie, isn't there a stu­
dent group 
\
~~;;~ron 
issues'? 
SUSIE: That's right. There's the World Hunger Coalition­
they spon­sor that Wednesday Fast program and use the money for relief and development agencies. KATHLEEN: There's a comparable group for facul­
ty and administrators, too. It's called the Third World Relief Fund. The TWRF raises money, which is sent to groups that specialize in meeting imme­diate needs of people as well as in help­ing with long-term development work. 
SUSIE: There's also a group that helps take the extra food from the dining halls and distributes it to places like the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission. But how can we encour­age involvement on the part of students and faculty/administrators who aren't aware of the issues'? 
KATY: Well, we could put up posters with photos and facts to draw their attention. Why don't we have an infor­mation table at one of the dining halls, too'? We could have pictures and display foods from around the world. Perhaps people would find it moving to think about how the rest of the world is eat­ing. 
SUSIE: That's great. Maybe we could put out an information sheet for them, too, something that has "What You Can Do" ideas on it. 
KATHLEEN: Let's include some of those myths about hunger you men­tioned. For example, we tend to "blame nature for famine" when that's not where the blame belongs. 
KATY: Sure. And maybe some ideas on hunger and children. Unfortunately. Oct. 16 is the Friday before break-not the best timing! Why don't we have the table set up the day before? People will still be here, and maybe it will help them think about these issues on the actual World Food Day. 
SUSIE: I know everyone is busy. but I'm sure we can find a few people to help us staff the table and talk to people about hunger issues. Although I have to admit, I'm not sure that our efforts will have any direct effect on people suffer­ing from hunger. 
KATY: I know what you mean, but it feels like we must do something even if our effort won't single-handedly solve all world hunger. 
SUSIE: That's true. It's like Gandhi said: "We will do what we can do." This is something we can do, and if we raise awareness even for just a few it will be worth it. 
For A More Just And Humane World is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not neces­sarily those of the Center for Social Concerns or The Observer. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
G
ive an Irishman lager 
for a month, and he's 
a dead man. An Irishman is 
lined with copper, and the 
beer corrodes it. But 
whiskey polishes the cop­
per and is the saving of 
him. 
-Mark Twain 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 15, 1998 ------------------os~£RvER -------------------------page9 
• CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE OBSERVER
• UNClE HALLWAY 
Basketball Slumping with 
Beating the Midterms­
Baseball on the Rise 
Week Blues 
Tlw National Basketball Association nnglnctnd to eonsidnr thn nxampln base­
Call me crazy, but I've always pre­and managing my time so poorly. 
I'JHII'd its pPrfl'd rPt'ord Tunsday wlwn it ball's playnrs set four years ago. After the 
ferred finals week to midterms Several nights of sleep deprivation 
was "forcpd" to caJwPI tlw first two wonks strikn, Amnriea's pastime became 
week. At least we get the benefit of were beginning to catch up with nw. 
of tlw 1'JIJX-1 <J<J<J s1mson. A total of 51 sea­America's wast11 of time until Mark 
"study days" and freedom from and l promptly fell asleep as soon as 
soils had bni'JJ complPtnd without a can­Mr.Gwirn and Sammy Sosa combined for 
classes before we send our brains I returned to my dorm. I woke up 
rPllation duP to labor Iwgotiations. Unable one hundred and thirty-three home runs 
into overload at the end of the with bronchitis. 
in a single season. If Larry Bird and Magic 
semesttlr . And sol 
.Johnson can lace up the Chuck Taylor All 
Midterms week found myself 
Stars o1w last timn, this lockout might be 
always seems so home sick on 
aeeeptablc. But Michael .Jordan is on the 
much worse, a..c; Saturday
Bob 

Jaclyn
golf course, and a field of high school ath­
tests and projects night, whiltl 
letes is expected to fill his basketball 
are loaded on top my room­
shoos. 
of normal class­mates daneed 
Tho NBA cannot afford a strikn. In a
Kerr 

Villano
work, with Fall the night 
new. fast-paced, athletic gnneration of 
Break just out of away at 
athlntns and consumers. tlw NBA is on the 
reach. 

-----========----Finnigan's. I
v11rgn of gr11atness. But even during bnse­
I took most of bugan to feel 
to n•arh an agn'l'llll'nt with llw l'laynr's ball's dark ymtrs, basketball still couldn't 
my midterms last week. Determined sorry for myself as I sat on the couch 
Union. llw NBA rant'PlPd a total of 91) <·.laim to be Am<~riea's most popular spnc­
not to get caught in the web of all­with the remote control. cursing 
ganws IH'tWI'Pil Nov. :{ and Nov. I(J. tator sport, and it certainly did not risn to 
nighters and cramming, I tried to midterm week and counting the 
NBA IJnputy Commissio1wr Huss Granik thn status of "pastime." The NBA cannot 
budget my time and begin studying hours until Fall Break. And then the 
said, "This is a painful dedsion for us. but afl'ord to miss a season. 
early. My first exam was in statistics, phone rang.
Everyone

wP can not start 
a ela.c;s that I have been struggling When l picked up the r!lcoivtlr and 
wants money,

tlw sPason until 
with this semester. I was determined grumbled a greeting, I was surprised 
WP havP a fair 
and everyone 
to ace it. to hear the voice of a good friend of 
deserves

agn•Pmt•nt in 
I blew ofT my reading for other mine from home. 
plan•." money'as 
classes and concentrated all my "Just wanted to see how you're 
long as the

This is painful? 
efforts on understanding Z-scores doing," he said. ' 
fans are will­

Wait until tlw 
and the normal distribution eurve. I We chatted for awhile. and his call 
ing to sacri­

NBA rPturns to 
took notes on the chapters. made put me in bettor spirits. Thnn. at 
fice a limb to

•·mpty stadiums. 
llashcards and studied with friends. I some point during the conversation, 
see a game.

Tlw old fans an• 
was a statistics maniac. I mentioned the possibility that I 
The fans are

too stubborn to 
On the morning of the test. I might have an extra tieket for an 
willing and

support striking 
walked confidently into the class­upcoming home game. When I asked 
ready, but as

millionain•s, and 
room with my no. 2 pencils and cal­if he'd like to see the Fighting Irish 
tho owners

!Itt• kids an~ too 
culator. I looked over my notes in action, he grew quiet. • 
and players

pasily diVI'rtPd 
briefly and, satisfied with my prepa­"Hello?" 
argue over

towards otlwr 
ration, I began doodling in my blue ''I'm here ... arc you serious'?" 
percentages,

S(llll'ts,, 11::\P\WiqllY. 
book as I waited impatiently for the "About what?" 
the NBA as a

otlwr sports on 
test to begin. "Me coming for a gamH ... aro you 
sport is losing 

vidno ganws. Tlw 
When the clock signaled 9:30, my serious'?" 
any loyalty it 

primary con­
professor instructed the class to "Sure." 
gained during

sunwrs gn~w up 
begin. Finally, the moment of truth Suddenly he exploded, "Jac, am 
baseball's

with defki1mt 
had arrived. I turned over my exam you SERIOUS?! Me, at a Notre Dame 
strike. The

atllmtion spans in 
and began reading. Suddenly, fhad game! That's like a dream!" 
fans can

tlw goldPn years 
a sinking feeling in the pit of my Maybe it was lack of sleep. or thfl 
allord the

of Snsanw Strenl; 
stomach when I realized that I didn't effects of the medicine l was taking,
players. but

Lhny do not have 
know how to answer the first ques· or maybe I was just having an emo­
the players

tlw patit•nce to 
tion. I remembered studying the tional night, but when I heard those 
cannot afford

follow a sport 
material, I eould actually picture my words. I felt my P-yes fill up with 
a strike. If the

with no dP!inite 
notes, but any conceivable way to tears. The thing is, my friend meant 
National

sclJI'dult~. 
begin answering that question every word he said. Notre Dame has 
Basketball

Last yt•ar the 
escaped me. always been a dream of' his. He has 
Player's

playPrs and own­
I read the next question in hopes been following our football team for 
Association

Ns dividnd up 
that it would unlock the flood of as long as I can remember, and his 
strikes for

about $1.75 bil­
information that I knew was buried room is filled with as many navy nnd 
money, the

lion in baskPtball­
somewhere in the depths of my clut­gold souvenirs as mine. 
rdatP.d inr.onw. In fans will 
tered mind. Nothing. Panic began to I hung up the phone that night and 
I1) 1)5, tlw owners strike for 
set in. In a desperate attempt to silently thanked my friend for 
agrPed to pay tlw more base­
cling to my last shred of confidence, reminding me how ltteky I am to bll 
playPrs hi'LWI'f'n ball. 
4X and :ii.S pN­NBA season 
nmt of the total. ticket holders 
Last sPason tlw will receive 
recognition. Again, I drew a blank. dreams, people like my friend who 
playPrs took cash refunds 
lwnw $1 billion in for their tick­
salariPs and lll'n­ets and an 
l'fits, or 57 rwr­additional 6.0 
anyone else was in a frantic state able to attend this university. 1\s I 
I'Pnt of the total: percent inter­
tlw avPragP play­est. People 
t~r salary was holding indi­
away, deeply engrossed in their the best of me. 
$2.f> million. Tlw vidual game 
work. It's so easy to get swept up in thP 
OWIWrS IJaV<! tickets li>r all 
Somehow, l managed to regroup stresses of day to day living at ND. 
11XI'rt:iSI'd tlwir prnseason 
and get through the test. But as I Classes and lifo in general can be 
right to impost' a and regular 
turned in my paper at the end of the very challenging here. We put a lot 
lockout. Tlw play­season games 
hour, I felt shaken and disappointed. of' pressure on ourselvos to do it all, 
nrs want morP that arc can­
I'd never experienecd test anxiety and to do it all well, from playing 
JJJOJWy. celed are 
like that before, and I had no idea sports to partying to studying. 
Tlw l'laypr's entitled to a 
what had gone wrong. Sometimes it seems like our etTort.-; 
Union has propospd that tlw ow1wrs pay a cash refund of the face value of the tickets 
Midterms week didn't get much to achieve artln 't paying oil'. But thny 
luxury tax on cnrtain exorbitant contracts. or a "rain check" to be used at a later 
better from there. Within the com·se always do. 
Thn tax monPy would then bn rmlistrib­date. 
ot' the next two days, I did poorly on After all, not everyone gets to walk 
utnd to low-nwnnun teams as compensa­They just don't understand. The fans 
two more exams beeause I never the well-worn paths beneath the 
tion for tightPr salary caps. will pay the money. They have already 
caught up with the reading that l Dome, and call this place home. We 
Tlw owners rel'usnd. paid the money. The fans want games, but 
slacked on during those four days I are the lucky ones. Our efforts paid 
Tlw NBA has madl' proposals to raise that is what basketball has come to: "rain­
spent living and breathing stats. ofT. 
tlw playnr's share of the total by 20 pnr­checks" for your support. 
Disappointment gave way to frus­Maybe midterms week isn't so bad 
cPnl ovnr tlw next four years. This would Note to professional millionaires: 
tration by the end of the week when after all. 
rPsult in an awrage player salary of over Baseball is back. 
I picked up my stats midterm. The 
$:t I million and a minimum salary for 10­
result wasn't as disastrous a..c; I Jaclyn Villano is a junior Arts and 
ypar Vl'tPrans of $750,000. Bob Kerr is a junior English major. His 
feared, but it was definitely not Letters major. /ler column usually 
(;ranik said. ''UnfortunatPiy, the union column appears every other Thursday. 
reflective of the time l had spent appears every other Wednesday. 
lnadnrship has been unwilling to give any The views expressed in this column are 
studying. I walked home after class· The view expressed in this column 
st~rious eonsidnration to what we havn those ofthe author and not necessarily 
es on Thursday feeling angry at are those ofthe author and not nec­
ofl'ered." those of The Observer. 
myself for bombing my midterms essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Unfortunatnly, both parties have 

~---­


c 
s 
-page 10-------------------------OTHE --------------Thursday, October 15, 1998
BSERVER 

LLB 
' 

Students donate mid-semester breakfor service seminars 



By JULIA GILLESPIE Scene Copy Ediror 
Many students look forward to October break from the first day of class registration. Unfortunately, once it rolls around many students are posed with the dilema of what to do. Some students stay on campus, while others reluctantly return home. 
This year, over 230 students will embark on ser­vice projects sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. These opportunites enable students to do something worthwhile for those who are less fortunate while they form bonds of friendsdhip with students whom they share common values with and earn academic credits. 
Jay Brandenburger, the director of experiential learning and justice education at the Center for Social Concerns feels enthustiatic about this year's service projects. He feels the social con­cerns seminars "reinforce the university's mission statement, which advocates disciplined sensibility to poverty and justice, because it enables you to apply what you learn on campus in a larger, glob­al community." These s.ervice projects include sites in Appalachia, Boston, New York City and Chicago. 
The Appalachia Seminar was established in 1989. It consists of several project sites in the Appalachia region. Orientation classes provide members of the Notre Dame community with background information on the region. 
Students participating in this seminar actively work during October break as they engage with members of the community and learn and grow from them. Throughout the week, they share their experiences with their peers. 
"At the end of the week you really appreciate your experience, because the esc works so hard to make a strong program, which every seems to really enjoy and benefit from," said Julie Reising, who attended this project in the past. 
When participants return to campus, follow-up classes allow a forum for students to share their insights and analyze them accordingly. Presentations and readings also supplement dis­cussions. A reflection paper at the end of the week allows students to present their experience and examine the impact of it on their personal lives and values. 
The Social Concerns Seminar is a Children and Poverty Seminar of urban immersion in Boston or 

all photos courtesy ol esc Notre Dame students repair a house as part of the Applachia seminar. 
New York City. Orientation sessions prepare stu­
dents for their experience because they closely 
look at current legislation and reactions from chil­
dren's advocates and educators. 
Students learn from children in these communi­
ties, who face social issues, such as foster care, 
AIDS, teen pregnancy, child care, education and 
the juvenile justice system. Community leaders 
and program administrators work to inform Notre 
Dame students of these dire realities that some 
children must face. After students return to cam­pus they focus on local children's programs within the South Bend community. These students in turn may contribute their knowledge and aware­ness to others while they further facilitate service at Notre Dame. 
The Cultural Diversity Seminar in Chicago offers students one credit in either theology or sociology. It exposes students to Chicago's diverse cultural heritage and ethnic neighborhoods and customs as they explore problems that urban life and racism pose. Community groups work with partic­ipants in inner-city Chicago. Students also partic­ipate in unique ethnic activities while they re11eet on their surroundings. 
This service opportunity allows participants the opportunity to gain a greater appreciation or other cultures and an understanding of problems within diverse urban communities. Students ulti­mately examine how they may promote gn1ater awareness to improve unfavorable social condi­tions. 
The Washington D.C. seminar of Violence and Non-violence in American Life examines what causes violence in today's iiodety in o1-der to achieve a more peaceful national community. It also allows students the opportunity to acquire one credit that cross-lists with theology and gov­ernment. 
Four students will also give up fall bn~ak to assist residents of the Dominican Hcpublic recov­ering from Hurricane Georges. The group will depart Saturday to participate in hurricane relief activities in the Dominican Republic's capital or Santo Domingo under the auspices of a local health-care agency in town. 
"I am really excited and it will be a new expier­ence," said Matthew Brummer, one or the partici­pants. "More than 15,000 homes were destroyed so I expect a lot of confusion and I just want to help." 
They will be under the direction of Martin Murphy, associate professor of Anthropology, who spends part of the year in the Dominican Republic as director of Notre Dame's Caribbnan Studios Program. 
r--------------------------------·~~~--------------~-----------­

'hursday, October 15, 1998 -------------------OTHE ----------------------~ page 11
BSERVER 
e 
' 


From the beach to horne, students ready for break 

By JOELI.E FARMER 
~'HL'Ill" Wntl'l 
With a trParlwrous wnnk full of midterms undPrway, onP ran only think of tlw upcom­ing Fall Brt•ak for n·lit•f. 
Whiln plans of rl'lurning lwnw and going on road trips arP bning l'inalized. options for otlwr artivitiPs for tiH• hn~ak snem limitless. 
Many sludPnts dPt'idP lo go honw for Fall llrPak to snn family and friPnds. For otlwr sludPnts. howPvPr.' going honw allows stu­dt•nls (o SilVf' lllOIH'Y for 1111' Sl'l'lllillgly IWCPS­sary Spring BrPak PSrapP from tiH• iry tundra that Notn· !lamP will lw. 
BPing from a warm rlimalt~ makes lht• Fall BrPak rhoit'P t•asy for snnior Amanda Dodd, who will lwad ho1;w lo ClParwalPr, Florida. 
"Sun for fnH•," Dodd said. 
"Fall BrPak is a much IH'Pdnd rnsl for lhP rigors of adapting to coliPgn," said l'rnshman 1-:Pvin Conosrnnti. ''I'll hP abiP to SPP my friPnds, family, and gil'll'riPIHI." 
WhiiP !his fall brPak marks thP t'ompiPtion of half of l.lw l'irsl Sf'lllPSIPr of roiiPgn lil'n for frPshnwn. il is a linw for job pn~paration !'or !host• who will gradual(' this ynar. 
"For SPniors. l;all Brnak is a tinw to r.ontin-
LW interviewing and making office trips to potPntial employers," Andrea Hazzano said. ''I'm going honw with a friend and interview­ing with a eompany in D.C., but will be back for Uw ganw." 
Thnn, of coursn, thnrn are thn Center for Social Concerns sponsored serviee seminars to sitl~s sw·.h as Appalaehia. There, students escape from Notre Dame with other students and engagn tlwmsnlves in learning about part of the rountry they ordinarily would never SPP. 
'Tm not going to Appalaehia beeausn of the o1w cn~dit," said Colleen Kinnon. "I've just always wantl~d to go to Appalachia and this is my last opportunity sincn Spring Brnak will IH~ my last chancn to spend linn~ with my friends beforn graduating. Plus. I love thn mountains." 
With studnnts stretched from California to (;ermany this Fall Brr,ak, a quintness will pervadP the campus. leaving those who opt to stay lwre limn to regroup and rclleet. But, for now, chaos unful'ls itself each day and night in tlw library. 

lttt•AU,.:nt' n<>1.i<>1tA. • t am tired of formals and SYRs. I am 
ltU:eo,p:fuee.l:t':':a· resUrom Notre Dame, been here since Aug. 19. I was thrillod to t~omtl Notre Dame, I had a great summer at home, but thought of Notre Dame. I missed sitting at the gro ht and thinking about my day. I missed runn the lakes. I .missed seeing the dome every ""'"'"''" [ walked to class. I missed watching the squirrels fr 
ost of aU; though, I missed the people of Notre Damo. met' some amazing individuals at this university and are.what make me happy to be a student here. past two months have been gn~at, but they have been long. I have a new schedule with groat classes, a lotof work. I still don't have a major, but at least 
narrowed-4t down to two possibilitles. I httve a a.9d a groat room, but a dorm with rules t stricter this year. I have a new dining hall. 
same food and more traffic. 
Unfortunately, life here has beeome monotonous. I sleep r., learn, eat, run, and study, everyday. ( need to for awhile. It has been a long time since I've seen 
1• .,. ....H·Y· I miss them and I miss my house. I will get to 
'"'"""'~··'"'"!"-· My mom i~ already shopping for all of my fa I can't wait to sleep in my own bed in my own room able to watch cable television. I won't have t.o wait i 
take a shower and I won't even have to wHar ......n,..·•·• •the hathrooliv If I want, l can even have guys in · ? a.m. I am here it is so easy f'or me to get lost in my ·.. I walk blindly from class to class and take .....,,..,,,... beauty of this place and its inhabitants. I aPJ:>r!:lcla~tlo•nfor how special my college experience really to get away; hut then when I am gone I can't hel think about Notre Dame. It has been said that ab 
•nu<~>ll);"'l'>. 
the heart grow fonder. I think that this adage make 

a part of Notre Dame and it is a part of me now 

•nu·Av•~r. 
There will he times tht\t I hate it here and ·. ithere. There will be times that I can't wait ··· a:ng times .that I can't wait to get hack I know that excited to come back to Notre Dame on October 23 a little distanco to give me a fresh outlook and me that life is good here. 


,,...,... , 1,-vh,,"'"'"'~" lleave the Notre Dame campus to go to tho air watch the dome from the car window \llltil it d from view. On Friday evening when I can't see 
. anymore 1 will be excited to go home and will I · to corning back to Notre Dame. I won't bo sad , ............ because I know that it will bo waiting for me when 
The rriews expressed in Scene Through Ou.r Eyes are thos the author and not necessarily those of the Obserr,er. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 15, 1998 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 

Ray suspended for three Inore after talks with agent 
Associated Press 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Michigan safety Marcus Ray, suspended because of his contact with an agent, will miss three more games, bringing the total to six. 
Hay will not be eligible to play again until the Nov. 7 game against Penn State. Michigan had said last week that Ray 
would be eligible to play in the 
Wolverines' Oct. 31 game at Minnesota. Michigan athletic director Tom Goss said Wednesday the confusion arose from the school's conversation with the NCAA last week. "There was some confusion during the 
conversation on the telephone Thursday 
(Oct. 8) as to what we understood Ray's 
suspension to be," Goss said in a state­ment. "When we received the official letter late Friday, the NC:AA spelled out that Marcus would have to miss 50 percent of the season." The school said the con­fusion occurred because Michigan plays a 12-game schedule, instead of the usual 11-game schedule. Ray already has missed three games. Michigan said last week that Ray and his mother received tickets to a July jazz festival in Cincinnati from a bank and that Ray picked them up at agent James Gould's office. The skybox tickets entitled the holder to free food. The investigation .also found that Gould had helped Ray's friends with arrangements for hotel room payments. The total value of the tickets and rooms was $477.23. Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said this week that Ray no longer would be a captain and he was not guaranteed his starting job when he returns. Ray was an All-Big Ten first-team selection last year and a second-team All-American. He had made 26 consecutive starts before his suspension. 

Photo courtesy of Michigan Sports Information 
Michigan's Marcus Ray, who has been sidelined for three weeks for talking to an agent, will sit out three more. 

Classifieds 
In two games this sea­son, he had 14 tackles. 

• WOMEN'S COllEGE BASKETBALL 
Lady Vols shoot to improve on perfect season 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
Improving on perfection. 
"Many times when you win, I think it is easy to get complacent," Tennessee Lady Vols coach Pat Summitt said Monday. "It certainly has not been the case for our bas­ketball team." 
After a perfect 39-0 season brought an unprecedented third straight NCAA title, the Lady Vols are eager to set course for a fourth championship as practice opens with Midnight Madness on Friday. 
All of Tennessee's starters return from last season, led by All­America forward Chamique Holdsclaw and point guard Kellie Jolly, the team's only seniors. 
The Lady Vols' Fab Four fresh­men -Tamika Catchings, Kristen "Ace" Clement, Teresa Geter and Semeka Randall -are sophomores now, and juniors Niya Butts and Kyra Elzy are on the mend. 
And in the post -the Lady Vols' only perceived weakness last sea­son -6-foot-3 LaShonda Stephens has gotten stronger. And she could get some help from two freshmen -6-5 Michelle Snow, Florida's Miss Basketball 1998, and 6-3 Shalon Pillow. 
"I think everyone has worked hard (in the offseason) and we are ready to take the game to the next level;" Holdsclaw said. 
"Looking at our basketball team and staff, the thing that I am par­ticularly pleast)d with is that we have consistency again," Summitt said as she begiris her 25th season. 
"We return the nucleus of our basketball-team in terms of our players that understand how to start and our players that under­stand hpw .to )llake an impact off the bench." 
Summitt's also happy that her three top assistants, Mi~kie DeMoss, AI Brown and Holly Warlick, all return after being "courted more than our team this past offseason." 
If there is a difference from last year, it's the result of the time the Lady Vols spent in the weight room in the offseason. 
"I think you will see on the court that a number of (players) ... have committed to getting much stronger,'' Summitt said. "I know we learned last year from our clos­est competitors how physical the games can be." 
In character, the Lady Vols will face as many as 13 ranked teams in their 27-game regular schedule, including additions Purdue and UCLA. Tennessee will be on the road at perennial powers Louisiana Tech, Connecticut and Old Dominion. 
The Lady Vols enter the season with a 45-game winning streak ­only nine short of Louisiana Tech's 54 game record. They know every opponent will be gunning for them. 
"We are in the position where everyone is out for us," Jolly said. "They have been for the past few years now. We have to know that we can't have a bad game. We have to step up our game every single night because everybody is going to play their best game against us." 
Holdsclaw said the streak factor won't affect her. 
"I just know that when playing time comes that I want to go out there and win these games, and win another national champi­onship," she said. 
"We have to take it just one gllille at a time, and just get better as a team and mature together. We defi­nitely have the talent. It is going to be exciting." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame ~ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be p~epa~d. . The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe nght to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  I ILOST & FOUND I  Looking for attractive women w/ good promotional skills to promote Jagermeister.Must be 21 & have  FOR SALE. LIVE PH ISH CDS! Bed box set. not available in U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  ND MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S­PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568 x2242  4 Sale -1 Army GA. Best offer. Must sell by Friday. Chad -271-9341  
THE COPY SHOP  Lost last Spring:  transportation. Caii1-800-TO- 
LaFortune Student Center  Pentex Super Program 35mm  JAGER.  PHONECARDS!$20 BUYS MINS.  Need 2 Baylor GAs.  
We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Camera w/ Vivatar flash, gray case. Call Susan 255-2369  USA282, CANADA 237,  Please call212-636-7472.  PERSONAL  
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm  STUDEBAGELS hopes that you  HONG KONG 100,  THE OBSERVER will not be pub- 
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm  have a great fall break. We are  IRELAND 155,  lished during fall break so if you  ODYSSEY OF THE MIND  
.#  Sun: Noon · Midnight  looking for someone to work at our  FRANCE 135,  have Army tix to sell, put your clas- Interested? Call Aubree  
When you need copies,  Lost-Brown, leather, Wilson  Campus Shoppes location. Will  GERMANY 135,  sified ad in before Friday, Oct. 16.  @ 4-3873 before fall break  
we're open!  football w/ Alabama High School  work with your schedule. 1801  MEXIC094,  
insignia on the side- South Bend Ave -Please apply in  PUERTO RICO 237,  TURNER'S HOLIDAY BAZAAR  
Early Spring Break  last seen friday 8/9 on or near  person.  UNITED KINGDOM 315.  Need 2 Baylor GAs ASAP  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  McGlinn fields-has special  For orders/ info, call  SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  sentimental value-if found  FEMALE MODELS Wanted for  616-684-3339  Top Dollar  8:30-2:30  
Awesome Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  please call Chris at 4-1817  undergrad photo project. Diverse ages and races wanted. If interest­ed contact Amanda @x3199.  TICKETS  631 -6750  ..................................... Annie in Austria!!!!!!!!  
Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties  ·········Losr···..... 3 COM PALM Ill electronic organizer  FOR RENT  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  2 Baylor GA's for sale.  We miss you! Have fun!!!! ...................................  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  Lost on Friday October 9, at aprox.  call Henry at 634-3520.  Ah, That was fun  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  7:00pm  1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  TICKETMART Inc  Please leave message.  
1-800-678-6386  If found please call Carl  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  BUY-SELL·TRADE  ............... ****  
@273-2530 (no ?'s asked)  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  Notre Dame Football Tickets  1 ARMY GA for sale, best offer.  SABOR LATINO  
Welcome Freshman  ••••••••REWARD......  258-1111  Call Aimee 1825.  
Michael Edwards!  That Pretty Place, Bed and  No student tickets please  Thursday Oct. 15  
$6.00 Haircuts  WANTED  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  FOR SALE  1 Baylor GA for sale leave offer 4x 1 067  Club Landing 10 pm · 1am  
Vito's Barbershop  with private baths,$80­ FOOTBALL TICKETS  (dance lessons 8:30 pm)  
1523 Lincolnway West  ADOPTION IS LOVE  $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  271-9412  Salsa & Merengue all night!  
Closed Wed. & Sun.  Happily married ND Alumni cou­ campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,1-800­ Need 3 Aerosmith Tix  
233-4767  ple,with adopted 3 year old daugh­ter, wants to shower a new baby  418-9487.  WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  Call Pete @ 4-0973  SABOR LATINO ••••• * ••••••••••••  
PARENTS-STUDENTS-ALUMNI  with love.Artistic full-time mom,ath- ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  271-1526  
letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  For Sale: 1 GA Army. Call Jim  i don't make brownies.  
Own a piece of ND history  with.Friends on the swingset,trips to  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  ND Ftbl. tix  @4-1169.  
the zoo,grandma, play groups,lulla- BUY-SELL  i make pumpkin pie.  
Attend the LARGEST ND COL- bies.too.This is a home where wish- BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  674-7645  2 GAs to Army & Baylor  
LECTIBLE SALE & AUCTION  es come true.We'd like to call to get  info:  For Sale: 243-2770  i really don't want to be a Keough  
to know you.Call Shawn & Meg  http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  girl anyway.  
FRIDAY, OCT. 23, 1998  800-767­ 219-291-7153.  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  1 ARMY GA FOR SALE  
11 am to 11 pm  4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp.  674-7645  X 2093  my heart is in Sarin.  
paid.  BED & BREAKFAST: Home away  
LOGAN CENTER  from home! 2 miles from campus.  ND Football Tickets Needed.  diane-i never see you! and i live  
Eddy & Angela  Queen beds, 1 room w/ twins.  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  Need 4 Army GA's. Call Pat @ 4­ with you!  
Info call219-257-0039  SPRING BREAK '99  Private baths. 272-9471.  0680  
Sign up early and get the following  ND FOOTBALL TIX  Kevin is Nick's obsession  
1000 RARE ITEMS FROM ROCKNE, HUNK, LEAHY,  FREE:$30.00 off package,14 FREE Meals, and 20 Hours of FREE  FOR SALE  FOR SALE AM 232-2378  NEED ARMY TICKETS? I HAVE 6 TOGETHER!  Hey Shannon, there's always next  
PARSEGHIAN.etc.  Parties.Call College Tours FREE at  PM 288-2726  CALL NICK 4-2313  year for the Indians  
(800)395-4896 or surf the  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  
Portion of Proct~eds Benefit the  web:www.collegetours.com  198 MIN. $20  Always buying and selling N D foot- NEED LSU TIX  Where else but New York?  
Parseghian Medical Foundation  CALL 258-4805  ball tickets. 289-8048  Call Matt 287-5179  

Thursday, October 15, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Katy Fallon, 
Notre Dame 
junior 

and volunteer tutor for the 
Literacy Council, a United Way 
agency. 


With one look at Katy Fallon's resume, it's obvious she has a passion for serving others. Her lengthy list of social service experiences includes work with Habitat for Humanity, the Catholic Campaign for Human Development, the World Hunger Coalition, and the Bread and Roses Hospitality Center in Birmingham, Alabama. 
"Service seems so straightforward to me," she says. "I mean, I'm very lucky, and I just believe I should share what I have." 
Raised in South Bend, Katy has served in her hometown 
as a tutor for the Literacy Council of St. Joseph County. A United Way agency, the Literacy Council is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to improving the functional literacy and English-speaking capability of adults in our community. Katy first worked with the council last year as an English as a Second Language tutor for a woman from Rwanda and plans to continue serving in the years ahead. 
"Everywhere you look, there are people who aren't as lucky as you;' Katy says. "I couldn't imagine not knowing 
how to read. So many doors are closed when you can't read. It's only fair that we should help open them!' 
Katy Fallon is like thousands of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students who volunteer their time and talents to United Way agencies, helping make our community a little better -brick by brick. 

.J 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 
Pac-10 unbeatens prep for game 
Associated Press 
Oregon certainly won't be sneaking up on No.2 UCLA. 
"1 spent six years as offensive coordinator there and they're still using a lot of the same things," UCLA coach Bob Toledo says. "When I watch them now, it's likP looking in the mir­ror. 
\\'hirh means there should be plenty of points in Pasadena when the 11th-ranked Ducks waddle into the Rose Bowl to play the Bruins. It's conceivable the teams could com­bine for lO~points and 
1.000 yards. 
Oregon (5-0, 2-0 Pac­10) and UCLA (4-0, 2-0l rank 2-3 nationally in scoring. with the Ducks at 50.6 points per game, and the Bruins at 48 points. The Ducks, led by the passing of Akili Smith and running of Heuben Droughns, aver­age 554.3 yards per game. The Bruins, with Cade McNown at the controls, are at 485.3 yards. 
"UCLA has all the ingredients to be a great team," Oregon coach Mike Bellotti said. 
KAT Photo 

"And we have staked a Bruin signalcaller Cade McNown's pass completions have slipped in the past
claim to that, too. We'll three games despite UCLA's climb to No. 2. 
find out more about that this weekend." 
For the Bruins, tailback Jermaine Lewis returns after a one-game suspension for his involvement in an off-campus fight. But he won't start, as Keith Brown and freshman DeShaun Foster were more than capable replacements. They ran for two touchdowns apiece and combined for 209 yards on 29 carries in UCLA's 52-28 win at Arizona. 
McNown, who last week failed to reach 200 yards pass­ing for the first time in 19 games, is trying to correct a f1aw in his throwing motion. 
"He's a better thrower, but he's not throwing the ball bet­ter right now," Toledo said of his left-handed quarterback, who has hit on just 49.4 per­cent of his passes in the last three games after completing 
60.6 percent last season. 
Droughns is the Pac-10's leading rusher with 652 yards 
(7.5 per carry) and eight touch­downs. The 6-foot, 205-pound junior college transfer, ran for 217 yards and four TDs in 

Voted! Area·s Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r-----------,
1 One Month 1 
I I 
l Unlimited l 
I . I 
1 1 
I Tannmg I : only $40.00 : 
L------------' 
University Commomo; by UP Mall 
272-7653 

r-----------,
1 1 0 Tanning 1 
I I 
: Bed l 
or I I 
: Sessions : : only $35.00 :
L------------' 
Grape & McKinley Mar KMarr 
256-9656 
Thursday, October 15, 1998 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankees-Indians give NBC high ratings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

NBC's coverage of the AL Championship Series between Cleveland and New York was the highest for any league championship series since before the baseball strike. 
NBC averaged a 9.4 rating for the six games, 6 percent higher than the network's coverage of last year's NLCS in the same time slot. A rat­ings point represents 994,000 households. 
The rating was 13 percent higher than Fox's ALCS cover­age last year and 12 pm·cent higher than NBC's coverage in 1996. 
Tuesday night's decisive Game 6 posted a 12.9 national rating, down 1 percent from the Florida-Atlanta game last year. 
In 1995, the league champi­onship series were shown regionally as part of the failed baseball network involving ABC and NBC. The two series combined to average a 13.1 rating. 
CBS posted a 10.7 rating in 1993 for the Toronto-Chicago series, the last year before the 1994 strike. This year's rating was higher than the 8.7 and 
9.2 that CBS got in 1991 and 1992. 
Oregon's 51-29 rout Washington State last week. 

Smith, meanwhile, has joined the list of Heisman Trophy con­tenders with his play. The 6-3, 215-pound senior leads the nation in passing efficiency with a 196.3 rating. Smith has thrown for 1,418 yards and 15 TDs as the Ducks shoot for their first 6-0 starts since 1964. 
OUR GROWTH MEANS GREAT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS!! 
At America's Largest Dealership, the Jordan Automotive Group in Mishawaka. 
WE'RE CURRENTLY SEEKING EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONALS FOR AVARIETY OF DIFFERENT POSITIONS FOR OUR FACILITIES IN MISHAWAKA, INDIANA. 
MANY POSITIONS ARE FULL-TIME AND INCLUDE BENEFITS, FROM HEALTH AND HOSPITALIZATION, 401 K, TO VACATION AND HOLIDAYS, AND MUCH MORE. 
SEND YOUR RESUME OR APPLY IN PERSON NOW FOR: 
• 
USED VEHICLES ASSISTANT MGR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CALl EXT. 230 

•IMPORT 
SERVICE TECHNICIANS AND ADVISORS ..................... CALl EXT 542 

• 
BODY SHOP TECHNICIAN ........................................... CALL EXT. 278 


-NEW CAR PREP SECRETARY.........................................CALL EXT. 275 eCOMMERCIALJFLEET ASSISTANT.....................................CALl EXT. 327 

__j 

Thursday, October 15, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
.... . 

Calendar of Events 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat #19 (November 13-14) Sign-Up 
103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall or see your Rector Targeted Dorms: Farley, Fisher, Howard, Keenan, Keough, O'Neill, Pasquerilla West, St. Edward's and Walsh 
DON'T WAIT UNTIL THE DEADLINE-NOVEMBER 9! 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, October 27., 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Part 4 of a Seven-Part Series on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Fortitude by Fr. Mike Baxter, C.S.C. 
Wednesday, October 28, 7:00pm, Log Chapel 
Emmaus Kick-Off. All are Welcome 
Thursday, October 29, 7:00-9:00 pm, LaFortune Ballroom 
Africentric Spirituality: Freshmen lntro Reception 
Thursday, October 29, 8:00pm, ND Room at LaFortune Student Center 
NDE Retreat #53 
Monday-Friday, November 2-6, Sign-Up 103 Hesburgh Library 
TWENTY-NINTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
CJ 
a 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
a 
~ 
~ 
• • • 

Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, October 17 Mass 
5:00p.m Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 
Sunday,October 18 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. William Wack, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Exodus 17, 8-13 2nd Reading 2 Timothy 3, 14-4, 2 

0MPUS

Gospel Luke 18, 1-8 
MINISTRY 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, October 15, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Series set: Yankees, Padres to open in New York 
Yanks, with extra day off, head into
San Diego holds on to early-series lead to beat Braves 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA So much for all that talk about the San Diego Padres blowing it. 
The surprising Padres reached the World Series for the first time since 1984, shutting down the Atlanta Braves' comeback bid behind MVP Sterling llitchcock for a 5-0 victory Wednesday in Game 6 of the NL championship series. 
The Braves had won two in a row. fueling speculation they might become the first team in baseball history to overcome an 0-3 deficit in t11e postseason. But the Padres wrecked that plan,. winning thll se·vies 4-2 with a 
;· five-run sixth inning off Tom Glavine. October hero Jim Leyritz drove in the go-ahead run. "I felt this club was special," Padres outfielder Tony Gwynn said. "Even though we won the first three games of the series, then turned around and lost two. I still had a lot of faith in these guys. Coming here tonight, we were really confident. We really felt we could win this game tonight." Now it's the underdog Padres, given little chance at the start of the playoffs, who will travel to meet the New York Yankees in Game 1 of the World Series on Saturday night. At 38, Gwynn is the last 
series to cap near-perfect season 
these things, you're just not Up stepped Leyritz, whose 
going to win them. We don't three-run homer for the 
Associated Press have anything to be ashamed Yankees in Game 4 of the 1996 about." World Series at Atlanta sent 
NEW YORK Hitchcock, forced to move up them on to the title. He didn't hit 
Bad news for San Diego: The a day in the rotation because of the ball out of the park, though 
Yankees will be well-rested Kevin Brown's relief appearance his RBI groundout put the 
when the World Series starts in Game 5, came 
.--------------------------, Saturday night. through again. 
Not that New· Just 9-7 in the 
York needed regular season any morn
New York Yankees
and with a histo­
advantages, ry of pitching vs. 
what with an poorly on three AL-record 114 
days' rest, he San Diego Padres 
wins, the home­improved to 3-0 
field advantage with a 1.13 ERA 
and the rabid 
in postseason fans of thn wins over Bronx Zoo. Houston's Randy 1-San Diego at N.Y. Sat. Oct. 17 7:30 p.m. ET "llopefully we 
Johnson and 2-San Diego at N.Y. Sun. Oct. 18 7:30 p.m. ET can. wrap it upl
Atlanta's Greg in lour," Davie Maddux and 3-N.Y. at San Diego Tues. Oct 20 8:00 p.m. ET Wells said early Glavine. 4 Ny S D' W d 0 8 OO ET Wednesday in
21

"It doesn't -· · at an Jego e · ct. : p.m. the glow of the 
matter who 5*-N.Y. at San Diego Thurs. Oct. 22 8:00 p.m. ET Yankees' record we're playing," 35th American said Hitchcock, a 6*-San Diego at N.Y. Sat. Oct. 24 7:30 p.m. ET League pen-
former Yankees 7*-San Diego at N.Y. Sun. Oct 25 7:30 p.m. ET nant. "That pitcher. "It's would be the going to be the *·-if necessary Best out of Seven best thing to time of my life." L-------------------------...J do." 
Hitchcock allowed only two hits in five innings and struck out eight. Leading 5-0, he left after a pair of leadoff walks starting the sixth and then Brian Boehringer -also formerly of the Yankees -relieved and got three quick outs. 
With the game scoreless, 
Glavine 


and the Braves ruined them­selves in 

t  h  e  
sixth.  
T  h  e  

inning began i n n o ­cent I y enough w h e n Gwynn ground­ed out. G r e g Vaughn, back in t h e starting I in e up for the first time s i n c e I e a vi n g t h e opener because of a strained I e f t quadr i-

AP Photo 
c e p s , 

The Padres celebrate their defeat of Atlanta Wednesday 
singled

night for a trip to the World Series. 
and ran to third 

remaining member from the when Ken Caminiti grounded a Padres' only other trip to the broken-bat single through the Series, a five-game wipeout by vacant hole on the right side. 
Padres ahead. 
Wally Joyner followed with a single and Glavine pitched around No. 8 hitter Chris Gomez, loading the bases with a two-out walk. Hitchcock hit a low liner that seemed to confuse Danny Bautista, and the left fielder got a bad break in toward the ball. 

Bautista made a late dive and it was no good. The ball clanged ofT his glove and the Braves could only watch as two runners scored. That finished Glavine, and Quilvio Veras greeted John Rocker with an RBI single for a five-run lead. 
The big inning quieted the crowd of 50,988', which had come hoping the Braves could force a Game 7 showdown between Maddux and Brown, who instead will oppose David Wells in the Series opener. 
The Padres relied on their strong bullpen to close it out the combined two-hitter, with relief ace Trevor Hoffman getting the final three outs. 
Having already beaten Houston (102 wins) and Atlanta (1 06), the 98-win Padres will try to do it again against the Yankees, who set an AL record with 114 victories. 
"To go against two great baH­clubs like Ilouston and Atlanta, it doesn't get any greater than this," Padres manager Bruce Bochy said. 
"I never knew I'd like New York so much," he said. ''I'm looking forward to this." 
With a combined 212 wins, the Yankees and Padres have the most victories among World Series opponents. The previous mark was 210 by Baltimore (1 08) and Cincinnati (1 02) in 1970. 
Detroit. The eight-time batting champion contributed two hits in the clincher against Atlanta. 
Happy 22nd Birthday
"For me it's a big thrill. I've never been to Yankee Stadium," Amy E. Townleylhe said. ''I'm going to celebrate tonight." 
For the Braves, the loss meant the end to yet another disap­Hope yoo get pointing year. Despite having reached the postseason a record CJnlipped on yoor seven straight times, they have just one World Series champi­birthday/ onship to show for it. And with 
(it'5 your turn/) 

106 victories, they are the win­ningest team to fail to reach the Series. 
"This team is good. We don't 
Love. Ellen. Tracey. &

need to reevaluate much," Braves manager Bobby Cox 
Kelly

said. "If you don't get hot in 
..... -............ ., . ·••'-....._-~ .... 
As the autumn sun splashed down on Yankee Stadium, play­ers took a day off following the 9-5 victory over Cleveland that won the AL championship series 4-2. 
There was talk some players would go to Atlantic City, N.J., on Wednesday night, and who could blame them? The Yankees' number has comn up just about every timn this year. 
"To me, this is probably the tensest part, getting hero," manager Joe Torre said. "Th11 World Series, if we win thP World Series, it will be magnifi­cent and we will celebrate. But getting there is a such a tough mountain to climb. and to have been able to do that against a club like the Cleveland Indians, who have been there so often. it is just very satisfying." 
New York, second in the AL with a .288 batting average, won the pennant despite a .218 average in the six games against the Indians. After scor­ing five runs in the first inning of the opener, New York was just 6-for-39 (.154) with run­ners in scoring position through Game 5. The Yankees then went 4-for-12 in Game 6. 
"I felt the pressure leave us after Saturday, oncn we were even at two," Torre said. "Wn had a good batting practice Sunday. We left some runners. We could have seon~d morn." 
Pitching, as it has all year. earried the Yankees. Wells, who won two of the four ganws against Cleveland, was voted the ALCS MVP and is nxpectPd to start the World Series open­er. 
While most Yankees didn't care who won tlw N L title, Wells had a elear prefPrence. 
"Hopefully. San Diego," lw said. "That is whern I am from. That is where I grew up, and it would be exciting for me and a challenge as well." 
The Padres tlwn obliged him by beating Atlanta 5-0 to win the NL championship series 4­2. 
"I never knew I'd like Nt>w York so much," said Padres manager Bruce Bochy. 
After taking Wc~dnesday ofT. the Yankees will regroup Thursday for a practic:P. Torre must figure out how to orciPr David Cone, Andy Pettitte and Orlando "El Duque" Hernandez for Games 2-4. 
While nothing was set beyond the opener, the best guess Wednesday was that Hernandez would start Game 2, followed by Cone and Pettitte. 
II' they are to take their place with the great teams, alongside the 1927 Murderer's How, the I970s Big Hed Mac.hine and others, the Yankec-1s must vvin four more games and win the Series for the second time in three seasons. 
"People can argue where we fit," Cone said, "but we don't dwell on it." 

UNITED LIA10 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Mfctwsy, AllDay... Every Day 
CORRECTION 
Current Schedule  
Leave-Notre  Arrive O'Hare  Arrive Midway  
Dame  Domestic  Airport  
Main Gate  Terminals 1,2 & 3  Via Tri State  
Coach Transfer  

3:05AM  6:05AM  6:30AM  
4:05AM  7:20AM  7:30AM  
5:05AM  8:20AM  8:30AM  
7:05AM  10:05 AM  10:30 AM  
9:05AM  12:05 PM  12:30 PM  
10:05 AM  1:05PM  1:30PM  
11:05 AM  2:05PM  2:30PM  
1:05PM  4:05PM  4:30PM  
3:05PM  6:05PM  6:30PM  
5:05PM  8:05PM  8:30PM  

• Watch for a schedule change October 25th• 
Thursday, Octobe-r 15, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
CoiPy. Mary K. Hoffman, and Katie Wagner can step up and ol'l'!~r thPir nxperi1~nce. They havP the taltmt. but nnnd bnltnr communication and a boost in ronfidPnrn. 
Paulnn lwlievns Saint Mary's rwmls to make mom of a mnntal adjustment than anything. 
"Wn're just hoping to come 
• NFl 
coordinator Greg Mattison
Foley benched after 
said. "Our head football coach 
has had a plan." 
That plan started in 

Shreveport, Louisiana after
poor play at St. Louis 
Associated Press 
IIEMPSTEAD. N.Y. 
(;Jnnn FoJpy's poor outing in St. Louis last wnPknnd has. f(n· now. !'ost him his job as NPw York .Ids quartnrbac.k. 
Vinny Tnstavt~rde, 2-0 in FoJpy's injury-rPlatml absenrP Par]iPr this snason. will start Monday's critical game at Nnw England. 
"I don't fen) likP Clenn is back to t.lw way lw was lwforn," roach Bill Pan:ells said WPdnesday. "I told him hP will gPt an opportu­nity to try and sharpnn himsnlf up." 
FoiPy IH~gan t.lw snason with a 41 S-yard. thrnn-tout:hdown Pflill't in a :~fl-:~o ovnrtinw loss at San Francisco. But lw strugglml in tlw Sf'COIHI half of (;:unP 2. a loss to Halt imorP, and was awful -:i-f'or-1 S for 7(, yards, with two intPITPptions and a f'umhln -at St. Louis bd'on~ TPstaVPrdo !'anu• on !alP in llw third pnriod. 
l'arrPils ddilwratPiy lwld FolPy out of thf' pn~vious wonk's ganw with 1\liami. tWIHl though Folt~y l'!ainwd hP was fully rnrowrnd from t.lw rih prohlo.m. liP tlwn rPinstatnd FoiPy as tl11• startPr fill' t.lw Hams gamP. 
Now. it's TPslavnrdP's job, at !Past for this WP!'k. 
"I just look at tlw situation as <;IPnn just isn't quill' what hn was Parly in tiH· sPason right now and I !'an't pinpoint why," l'an·plls said. "\\'p'n~ at a point in tlwn· st•ason wlwn• WP havl' slllnt• tough ganws. and if WP out and play strong and smart. We know we have the potential; 
Irish 
we just need to use it," she said. "We t(md to come out defensive­
continued from page 20 
ly when we know we're up against a good team. We just 
to handle success yet or need to put it all together and 
maybe he just sees where his give it our best." 
team needs impmvement. Saint Mary's plays Alma 
The squad has the opportu­College on Saturday at home 
nity to have an outstanding and hopes to turn things 
season and while he might not around. This will be another 
like to admit it, a lot of it will eonfernnee game for the Belles 
have to do with the head and an important on!l for thllm, 
coach. mnntally. 
"All you have to do is watch this team and see where this team is going and what's hap­pnned and you know who deserves the credit," defensive 
tho Irish dosed their season with a loss to LSU. Dave saw
don't do something prntty soon, 
his team get out-muscled, so
we will not be a factor." 
he brought in strength andTnstaverde is looking at the conditioning coordinator
eurnmt QB order as temporary. 
Mickey Marotti to get his
The 12-year veteran, a starter troops bigger. stronger and
for most of his earner in Tampa 
better.
Bay, Clevnland and Baltimorn, The Irish have been theisn't looking beyond Foxboro 

Stadium. 

"I look at it as one game," said Testaverdn. "I haven't been around Coach Parcells enough to know what he's going to do. That doesn't concern mn. Playing good football is what concerns 
nw. 

"I don't expect all of this to bP on my shoulders. Wt~ have a very capahiP ollimse. I am morn con­eenwd about what the Patriots are doing. If wn do our jobs. we can win the game." 
Foley, in his lifth pro season, has had a rough career. lie was a third-stringer for the first thrnn years. hardy getting any action. Ih~'s also bPen injury-pronP, and 
·­

those injurins not only havn cost him playing time, but twice have contributed lo losing the startnr's job. 
lin spokn mysteriously on Wedrwsday about "otlwr factors" that contributed to his demotion. 
"You do what you're told and go about it that way," Foley said. "If you don't do well. you don't win. You look at the rireum­stancns and Pverything going on around you. I am one guy trying to win." 
But lw also admitted that aftnr his poor showing in St. Louis, lw desnrvmlto lw set down. 
"I was terrible and I cost tlw 

The Observer/Jeff Shu 

team big in that ganw," he said. 
The Irish defensive line credits the offseason training program for their ability to outmuscle opposing offien­
"I really dnsnrvnd to get 
sive units thus far this season.
bnnchnd. 'v\'hen you don't play W!'ll, you don't play and I'm not 
./ Used, rare and 
playing this week. That's just the 
• SPORTS BRIEFS

out-of-print books way it works." ln1tial cost of $2.0C· 
Challenge U Fitness -Fitness dasses are halt' price after break. Stop by the HecSports office in Nationally -circu!ated ad 
the RSHC to register. Look l'or the complete schedule on the ReeSports web page. 
Success rate of 5Cfi'o 
Yoga-A new yoga class will be held on Mondays, 10/26-12/7, from 7-8:15 p.m. in the RSHC. 
T1me required: 2 months 
Registration is at the RSRC. Space is limited. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Tai Chi -Hegistration is at the RSRC. Classes will take place on Wednesdays, 11/4-12/9. from 
Open noon to six 
5:30-6:20 p.m. in the HSHC.Spaee is limited. 

' Tuesday through Sunday 
-

Knockout Workout -Round 2 registration is at the HSHC. The elass ·will be held on Tfl'h,
1027 E. Wayne 
10/27-12/8, 6:45-8 p.m., in the Joyce Center boxing room. Space is limited. South Bend, IN 46617 Men's Basketball -Tryouts will be hold on Tunsday, October 27 at 7:30 a.m. Tryouts \'llill be
(219) 232-8444 
held in the main arena of the Joyce Center. 

Soccer Fest 
Friday@ 6pm 
followed by 
ND vs. Connecticut @7:30PM 
Yottth Weekend 


F.,.qEE cJi;'lic 
Sunday@ 1:00PM 
followed by 
ND vs. Seton Hall @1:00PM 
WIN GREAT PRIZES!! 
dominate team in the second half in every game this sea­son. Not even the sweltering desert heat could slow the 
Irish. 

Now Davie and a lot of hard work by his players and staff have the Irish sitting pretty with a 4-1 mark staring at cream puffs Army, Baylor, Navy and Boston College next on the slate. 
While Davie's and the team's favorite cliche remains, "take it one game at a time and our next game is our biggest," it works. If the Irish keep taking it game by game, thn reserva­tions to Pasadena and the top ten will take care of itself. 
Davie has also had his team adapt the phrase from former Irish coach Dan Devine, "a team that won't be beat, can't be beat." 
But Davie may be instilling more than catchy phrases in his team. 
"Hight now this team is tak­ing on his personality of aggressiveness, toughness, and doing things the right way," Mattison said. "That's 
why we're where we'n~ at." 
•
Before we start patting everyone on the back. the real­ity is a 4-I start does not make a season. Davie and the Irish still have a long way to go. But what is encouraging is what Davie and his team have already been through. 
"He stood like a rock when there was a lot of criticism and negative things throughout the summer and throughout last season," Mattison said. "lin's never wav!lred and that's a total credit to him and that shows." 
While there is quitn a difTnr­enee from the 1997 Irish and this year's version, aecording to coach Mattison, there is no difference in the leader. 
"lie has the same foeus," Mattison said. "lie has the same preparation and I think that thn kids are playing better and maybe we as assistants are doing a better job. The plan and his focus havnn't changed any." 
Ilopefully, the way the Irish are playing won't changn either. 
·­
'The DoL Dane SLo,..' 
t'e.JfAf$.il.'r 
@ Damon's 7:30PM 
Food & Drink Specials!! 



--------------------------~------~-------... 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
SOCIAL For a More Just and, Humane World' 
CONCERNS 

CALENDAR OF REGULAR ACTIVITIES 
Mondays: -Keenan Dismas House Evenings 
Tuesdays: Zahm There Are Children Here--Lyons YMCA 5-6 PM--Walsh Northeast Neighborhood Program Afternoons PE Monroe Elementary 4-6 PM--Dillon Center for the Homeless Evenings--Keenan La Casa de Amistad 3-5 PM Keough Center for the Homeless 6:15-8 PM 
Wednesdays: PE Lincoln Elementary 4-6PM--Cavanaugh There are Children Here 4-7 PM--Keenan Charles Martin Youth Center 3:15-5:15 PM Fisher St. Paul Bethel Baptist Church 5-BPM--Pangborn St. Joseph--Zahm There Are Children Here Afternoons 
Thursdays: Lyons YMCA 5-6 PM--PE Monroe Elementary 4-6 PM--Keenan St. Joseph Day (Adult) Care 3:30-5:30 PM Breen Phillips MLK Center 4-6 PM 
Fridays: Farley El Campito 3:15-5:15 PM--PE Logan Center 3:45 PM--Keenan Center For The Homeless Saturdays: PW Nursing Home 9-11 PM--Walsh Adopt-A-Grandparent 9:30 AM Sundays: PE Center for the Homeless 12:30-4:30 PM 
1998-99 Communit Service Commissioners 
Alumni Tom Anderson Alumni Morgan Farmer Badin Priscilla Clements Badin Katie Cooper Badin Jennie Tylec Breen Phillips Anne Moriarty Cavanaugh Katie Torrence Dillon Pat Emmons Dillon Doug Jones Dillon Benjamin Kutylo Farley Katie Flannagan Farley Liz Petruska Fisher Casey McKeon Howard Lindsay Frank Howard Rebecca Welch Keenan Colin Looney Keough Jordan Curnes Knott David Hartwig Lewis Hilary Baldwin Lewis Holly Skinner Lyons Maggie Meek Lyons Sarah Schneider McGlinn Leah Ashe McGlinn Kristin Brown McGlinn Sangeeta Kumar McGlinn Katie Phillips Morrissey Chad Silker O'Neill Chris Chambers Pangborn Jennifer McEntee Pangborn Erin O'Leary Pasquerilla East Laurie Friedman Pasquerilla East Theresa McHugh Pasquerilla West Lori M. Bettcher Pasquerilla West Nicole Carri Siegfried James Harris Sarin Xavier Manrique St. Edward's Joseph Shea St. Edward's Jeff Wincko Stanford Jim Kelly Stanford Mike Werner Walsh Rachel Gallardo Walsh Sheryl Overmyer Welsh Loren Masterson Welsh Maureen Rodgers Zahm Nathan Hudak Zahm Bob Steinmetz Zahm Michael Svarovsky 
4-0807 4-0807 4-3774 4-3741 4-3817 4-1675 4-1467 4-1867 4-0942 4-1608 4-3560 4-3560 4-3015 4-2585 4-2535 4-3073 4-3095 4-4780 4-3219 4-3541 4-2818 4-2780 4-3957 4-0565 4-3957 4-3740 4-0889 4-1917 4-2389 4-2385 4-2241 4-3876 4-3486 4-0761 4-0783 4-2266 4-3170 4-1676 4-2010 4-2010 4-4670 4-0849 4-1305 4-1141 4-1245 4-1019 4-1678 
ilibmmlk 1®Dll IEJmllll ~­,}]lilltru1 §~rrwf1~~ ~ ---<JI~'--,.11, 
.:'Han Staff and Community Service Commissionersa ''-'-· Residence -halls are a vital source of community service initiatives. Hall staff and Com(rljryity Service Commissioners play a key role in organizing service­learning opportunities that link students with community agencies in South Bend and beyond. For example, every Tuesday and Thursday residents of Pasquerilla East tutor at Monroe Elementary. During Fall Break, residents of Sorin Hall will travel to Chicago to rehabilitate three homes. The Center for Social Concerns would like to thank the Community Service Commissioners and Hall Staff for all their efforts to facilitate, promote, and organize hall-based community service. 
Ideas from Around Campus Residence Halls are involved in the following activities 
Dismas House There Are Children Here Taking kids to pep rallies Writing letters to nursing home residents El Buen Vecino Adopt-A-Grandparent Collecting magazines for hospital wait­ing rooms Logan Center Center for the Homeless Northeast Neighborhood Program Project Warmth El Campito Penny Wars Visits to a local nursing home Donating money from wrapping Christmas gifts Martin Luther King Center AIDS Walk 
Why Service? 

Service fits into the bigger picture and helps us expand our individuality of faith because we reach out in coopera­tion rather than in competition. Service expands the circle of our communal sense of church. It's not that we have so much to give, we are also learning. 
Br. Bonaventure Scully, 
St. Paul Bethel Baptist Church La Casa de Amistad St. Joseph Adult Day Care American Cancer Society Clothing drives Thtoring Organizing holiday parties for kids Food drives Collecting money for an orphanage in the Philippines Sponsoring a child from another country YMCA Charles Martin Youth Center St. Hedwig's Outreach Center 
Your efforts make a difference! Contact Kristie McCann at 1-5293 if you'd like more information about any of these activities. 
Keenan Hall Rector 

Service opportunities are great for community building in the hall. Service also makes the Sunday liturgy come alive for the students and gives them an anchor, something concrete to attach to the Gospel. 
Kathleen Beatty, SSJ, 



Thursday, October 15, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
GRRR. ll-IIS PAPERBoY IS 0RtVIN5 ME NUTS! 
DILBERT 
CA.If>E.R.T THE. H.R. DIRECTOR ~ 
t--::===========::::::1g 

@) 
,.. ~ 
.. 
g :il 
E 
0 
0 
t 
Q) 
:f! '0 

Dame Department of music. Please call 1-6201 for
46 One of the 

more information.
Sinatras 
47 Tees, e.g. 
48 Shalamar 

Gardens locale 50 Spiteful 52 Like 5's and 
10's, e.g. 53 Slowly disappear 54 R.E.M. vocalist Michael 55 Canola oil source 
Wanted: 
DOWN 
11959 Neil Sed aka hit 

Reporters and
2 With no exceptions 

3 Two of the Seven Wonders of the World 
photographers.
4 Jackson Hole backdrop 5 Rephrase &Ingrid's "Notorious" 

Join The 
co-star 7 Little white thing 27 How some 37 Leaves for 
49 It's a cinch, in 

fast-food lunch?
8 Noted 60's Japanchicken is sold 

activist 38 Two-timed 51 "Die 
Observer staff. 
28 Large server 9 "Love Is a 41 Smothers with Meistersinger"30 FomentBattlefield" muck heroine 
singer, 1983 31 Fishermen's profit?
10--Perot 32 Answer to the 
11 Further Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
riddle of the are available by touch-tone phone: 12 Na2C03 Sphinx 1-900-420-5656 (751t per minute). 
13 Orbital track 33 Ballyhoo 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 16 Reserved 34 Very attentive best of Sunday crosswords from the last 21 Modern cubist? 35 "Eh?" 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mario Puzo, Sarah Ferguson, Penny Marshall, Roscoe Tanner 
Happy Birthday: You've got what it takes to make things happen. Don't sell yourself short or let anyone else lead you to believe that you can't do something that you have your heart set on. Go for the gold and don't look back. You will find the year ahead exciting and full of opportunities that you just won't be able to ignore. Your numbers: 12, 21, 27, 30, 39, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Social events will lead to courtships. Your youthful approach to life will attract all sorts of admirers. Be a go-getter at work. Professional gains can be made. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone you live with may be stretching the truth a bit. Don't get angry unless you have all the facts. Your stubborn nature may be your downfall.OO 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be highly entertaining. Your ability to present your ideas with enthusiasm will ensure positive response. Make those changes around the house that you've been contemplating. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a look at your residential options. A move or changes to your existing home are definitely in order. Get friends and relatives to help you accomplish this. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make vital career changes if you con­nect with the right people. You will be
SCOTT ADAMS 

a little uptight if your mate tries to curtail your freedom. Don't let any-


Birthday Baby: You were born with spunk. You have a need to try new things and to take risks that could lead you into dangerous territory. You have the type of charm that will bring you great popularity. You're talented, loving and always eager to be in the limelight. 
(Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialaslcom.)
CAN '(OU LIC.K 
THtN YOU 

© 1998 Univt•rsal Press Syndicate 
THE. TOP OF YOUR 
CAN'T BE f:l.. OWN HE.AO? 
1"'\ANI\GER.. 

• OF INTEREST 
K¥ 
Joel Lester, Dean of the Mannes College of Musk, 
presents a lecture, "Bach and Mozart Teach Sophomore Theory," this afternoon at 4:45 p.m. in 
L___.CfiE~~~ room 124 Crowley Hall. The lecture is free and open to the public. The lecture is sponsored by the Notre 
one stand in your way. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take it easy. You have been pushing yourself too hard lately. Join a club that will offer physical as well as social activi­ties. You'll find new friends, new activities and new you. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't take on too much. You need to pam­per yourself, not others. Educational pursuits will be to your benefit. Go after your professional goals and put your personal life on the back burner for now. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Secret affairs may be alluring, but will not necessarily be lasting. Be sure that you aren't getting into something that will hurt your reputation and possi­bly break your heart. 00 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be drawn to exotic destinations. Try to book a trip that will fulfill your adventuresome nature. Family ...-.,m­bers may be upst't with your travel choices. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have to help a family mem­ber out today. Don't let him or her take you for granted. You need to take some time to do things that you enjoy. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 2()-Feb. 18): You can meet new lovefl!l if you get out with friends. Expect your mate to push you into an emotional dilemma. You need to learn how to say no. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make a difference at work if you present ideas that will improw effi­ciency. Your lover will be upset if you put in too many hours at work. 000 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
·­

Name ____________________________________________ _ Address ________________________________________ City __________ State ______ Zip________ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Kind of course 9 The terrible twos, for one 14 Poison pen letters 15 "Dover Beach" poet 17 Dents-ly populated? 18 Take baby steps 19 Shakespearean eulogist 20 Kids 22 Aspire 23 Approximate 24 Failings 25 "The Simpsons" storekeeper 26 Low notes 27 German spa city 28 Bear country? 
29 "--Girls" 
30 President who was a Princeton graduate 
32 Antiquated 
33Attempts 
36 Letters from mom? 
39 Wang Lung's patient wife 
40 Laurey's aunt 
41 Carson's Carnac, e.g. 
42 Pabst brew, familiarly 
43 "Inside the Third Reich" author 
44 "Beetle Bailey" character 
45 Seat on the aisle 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

~­

PORTS 
O THE

page20--------------------------------------------­
BSERVER 
• fOOTBALL 

Davie's second season a 180-degree turnaround 
By JOEY CAVATO Associate Sports Editor 
Due to the power failun\ during Notre Dame's thrash­ing of the Sun Dovils, hoad coach Bob Davie met the press on top of a golf cart with his baek against the wall of the hallway that leads from the loeker room to the field. 
Davie had just led his team to three consecutive wins that effectively put an ugly sum­mer and diffieult first year behind him and got his back anywhere from being up against the wall. 
While booking hotel reser­vations in Pasadena for tlw Hose Bowl is extremely pre­mature. Davie appears to have righted the ship, but don't tell him he's responsi­ble. 
After the Michigan State debacle, Davin said numerous times that the blame lied with the head coach and tlw head coach alom\. Not many of the Irish faithful disagreed, as the team was certainly unprepared for tho Spartans. 
Standing on top of that golf cart in Tempe, Davie began his press conference giving total credit for the current three game winning streak to the assistant coaches and the players. 
Davie uses more cliches than Crash Davis taught Nuc Lalush in the movie "Bull Durham," but this one isn't accurate. 
Maybe the second year coach isn't exaetly sure how 
see IRISH I page 17 

• No. 2 UCLA and 
No. 11 Oregon face off this weekend in a Pac­10 football showdown. 
p.J4 

After jumping to a 4-1 start this season, Bob Davie is quick to credit players, like Autry Denson {23), for putting the Irish on top . 
-------------------------------Thursday, October 15, 1998 
----~--~----­
• The Padres victory over the Braves earns them a spot in the series against the Yankees. 
p.16 

• SMC SOCCER 

Calvin puts Belles in two-game slump with 6-0 victory 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's soccer team dropped another one Wednesday to Calvin College by a score of 6-0. 
After a streak where the Belles went undefeated, winning three and tying two, Saint Mary's seems to be baek in a slump. They have lost two in a row and their record is now 3-8-2. The Belles have been out-seored 15-1 in these losses. 
Calvin dominated the game and proved yesterday that they deserved to be ranked sixth in the MIAA Conference. Calvin had a record of 10-5 and had scored 49 points going into the game, while Saint Mary's stood at 3-7-2 and had seored 17 goals. 
At Calvin. the Belles continued to have a lot of trouble getting the ball to their offen­sive players. Saint Mary's had only one shot on goal the entire game and seemed to be on defense constantly. 
"We seem to have a gap on the field," said defender and midfielder, Laura Paulen. "The defense can get it to the mid­dle, but we have a problem working it through to the offense." 
This is a problem that has been plaguing the Belles in all eight of their losses. Their defense has been tough, but has been called on to defend the entire game. Without an offensive attack, the defense has been tiring out in the down the stretch. 
Midfielder, Mary K. Hoffman noted, "We definitely didn't create enough-offense from the midfield." 
The Belles did come out strong in the first half and held Calvin to only one goal. But Calvin adjusted well at half time and threw everything they had at Saint Mary's in the second half. They used a lot of sub­stitution and varied their ofl"ense frequent­ly. Saint Mary's has been outscored 8-0 in the second half in their last two games. 
"They were very quick. They were switching players all over the field," said forward Katie Barger. "We really had a difficult time defending what they were throwing at us." 
The Belles continue to look for leader­ship. The seniors, Joanne Wagner, Liz 
see BELLES I page 17 


The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 

Saint Mary's 15-1 goal deficit in the past two games leaves the squad slumping. 
1-'i-:' vs Army, Women's Swimming 
at Duke 
t~ October 24, I :30 p.m. at Miami 
SPORTS 

Saturday, 7 p.m. 
~ Sf.:
at Connecticut Friday, 6 p.m. 
ATA 
Friday, 3 p.m. 

at Ferris State 
~ 
Cross Country 
·~ 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
vs. Connecticut at Central Collegiates 
=

GLANCE ~ 3t
Friday, 7:30p.m. Friday, 4:15 p.m. 
... 



