
--~ --~ -~----------~-----------­
• A Ph.D. candidate with a long list of acad­
• As their second season ends, players discuss what 
Wednesday

emic successes adds being an artist to her list 
it takes to make it in the Women's National 
of achievements and will display her work in 
Basketball Association. 
SEPTEMBER
Mishawaka. 

Scene • 13 
Women's News· 3 
2, 1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO.8 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
BOG discusses

WRC allowed to retain club status 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
A~~i\l.mr Nc.·\v~ hliwr 
On tlw condition that it rPmovo all informa­tion about abortion from its ol'l'irns. tlw \\'onwn's I!PsourrP Cnnt!'l' ran knt~p its dotH'S OJWil this yPar. 
l.ast spring. tlw CPni.Pr's fut.ur!' was in jl'opardy al'tPr an inwsligation by tlw Officn of' Studnnt :\rlivit.il's -and an artirll' in the publir.ation Hight I!Pason -rtwnalPd thn CPntPr displ<tyl'd pamph!Pts about abortion. 
Thosl' allt•gations lol't tlw Cnntm·'s o!'licors with a tough dt•rision t o mak!': oitlwr rloso Llw t'PillPr and losn status as a rocogniznd group. or abidl' by du l.ar and rPmovt1 any information about abortion. 
"Not I'VPrymw may agrno with tlw dnr.ision. htl1 WI' dl't'idl'd that kePping tlw eontt)r opnn without tlw pamphiPts would lwlt!•r St)rvn thn studPnts than dosing tlw t·nntnr in protnst." soplwmon• Marnie Brown. co-chairwoman of tlw \VI!C. "It's rnally a doubln-Pdgnd sword. but (;od knows this University nneds a womPn's n•soun·o cnntor." 
Tlw group dPcidPd to accopt provisions mado hy .loP Cassidy. dirnctor of Studnnt Act ivitiPs. and act'I'Jll a two yoar probation­ary poriod during which tlw cnntor will urHlPrgo JH'riodic inspections. Bowm1 said. 
By having in form a lion a hou t abortion availabll', tlw group violatPd a portion of du l.ac-Noln~ llanw's student handbook ­which prohibits studPnt organizations and tlwir mPmbors from Pnrouraging or partic­ipating in adivitiPs t:ontrary to tho moral tnarhings of t.lw Catholic Church. 
"As a studt•nt-run organization, we have to promot n tlw idPals and values or the llnivPrsitv." Bowen said. "Wt1 will not havo anv info1:mation on abortion or o!Ter rdPr­
raC.,." 
But BowPn said slw foels the information on abortions formerly prnstmt in tho WHC was not "blatantly promoting it." 
Tlw ct~ntl'r has always provided informa­tion on prognaney and rt)lattHI topies. she said. 
Bowen nxpn)ssml frustration with tlw lim­its placml by tlw UniVPrsit.y on student orga­nizations although slw arknowlt)dgPd that slw krww Cassidy was "just following the rules." 
"Young adults should lw able to t:onw to thn <"nntPr and got the information thny want," slw said. "The Officn of Student 1\r.tivities is the higlwr power though." 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Students visit the Women's Resource Center table at Activities Night, held Tuesday. The WRC had its club status renewed for this year. 

plans for year 
By ERIN GIBBONS News Writer 
More technology updatt~s. a Saint Mary's College pride day and a nnwslnttnr for par­ents topped tho agenda at the snmnstnr's first Board of Govomance monting. 
.Joel Cooper, diroctor of the Infor-mation Teeh-nology Depart-mont. told BOG thn departmont is in the oarly stag<1s of turning the eurrent 24-hour study loungo in tlw bas()­ment of the Cushwa-Loighton Library into a 24-hour eom­puter lab that would be for 
'ISEE THIS AS A DAY OFthe solo usc of 
the student body. The eom­
putcr lab in the basement of LeMans 
would still bn upon, but used more for toaching classes. With two big labs. studonts 
CELEBRATION FOR SAINT MARY'S WOMEN TO REFl.ECT ON THE QUALITY OF THEIR EDUCATION AND 
THE SPIRIT OF THE COL­LEGE. 
C\1/0LYN KELUiY SOPIIOMO/W C!.o~\SS Pw,:mJENT 
would have a space to work on papers. group projects or a quick e-mail hotweon class()S without the worry of disrupting a dass. 
In conjunction with the eonstruetion tho new all-hours studont computer lab, Information Teehnology is looking into pur­chasing new administrative software. Tho new software would allow students in the class of 2002 to registm for classes online or cheek on the status of a linaneial aid applica­tion. That technology would ideally bo ready by the time that dass is in its final year. 
"Since we are representatives of thn Collnge, we all neml to stay eurront on cam­pus issuos such as Information Technology changes," said studtmt body prnsident Sarah Siefert. 
Other aetivitins plannnd for the upcoming year include a Saint Mary's College Pride Day 
planned for Oct. 6, the anniversary of' the inauguration of' College president Marilou Eldred. 
see BOG I page 6 

More diversity creates and revives minority groups 
By 1\1. SHANNON RYAN s.,inl Mary's Ediwr 
Wlwtlwr llll'l'ting frinnds in tlw dining hall or a proft~ssor al'tt•r rlass, chancPs are that at Saint Mary's College you will be nwt hy a whitn J'ac:e. 
At an institution with less than livn Pthnic minority mombnrs on faculty and a student body that is almost 1)0 pnrctmt Caucasian, lack of div<)rsity has btHm a high­lightml c:onenrn of' the Collngn. 
This senwster. students have rmledi<:atnd thmnselvns to creat­ing a compassionate and sup­portivn atmosphere for students of a minority baekground. 
A Multicultural Student Union is in tho making. Meanwhile, La Ftwrza. an organization devoted to tlw concorns of Latin women, is n•juwnating itsnll' and Sisters of Nel'nrtiti. a group for African­Anwrican women, is continuing its mission. 
"I think that this is a group effort," said Maria Oropeza, director of' Multicultural All'airs. "It's part of the changing force on campus. There are also changt)S in the students them­solves and they want their voices to bt1 heard." 
Lately. improvements have been made concerning enroll­m~mt. Though overall enroll­mont has been dropping -with the exception of this fall ­minority enrollment has seen steady increases in the past four years, according to tho office of Multicultural AITairs. 

Also, students attending from a wider variety or states than in the past will add to the changing face of the College. 
With help from this year's boosted enrollment, a 25 per­cent increase from last year's freshman dass, leaders of the organizations said they plan on more easily executing their mis­sions and re-committing Saint Mary's as a caring environment for all women. 
Multicultural Student Union 
Although it is not yet in <~xis­tence, studonts initiated the idea of a Multicultural Student Union by creating a constitution and preparing to work through tlw proper channels to get club recognition by the end of the fall semester. 
As a senior, Melony Smith said she could have benefitnd from a program like this when she entered with the mostly homogenous Class of 1999. She has completed three years of the Saint Mary's experience, but she said that as an African­American student, her experi­ence was dill'erent than most. 
"When I came in, I felt pretty much overwhelmed," said Smith, who helped initiate the idea of MSU. "I didn't feel like I had a support systnm in plaen and I had to struggln with that." 
Part of the MSU's prdiminary mission is helping minority frnshmen J'()t:eive a holistic expn­rinnen and showing them that they do have an identity at Saint Mary's. 
Its primary goal is to establish itself as a governing, policy­making body, Smith said. Some tentative plans include building ties within the minority college community and the South Bend community. 
The group will also involve students in mentoring programs, internships, leadership confer­ences and professional work­shops. Another goal is to con-
see SMC I page 6 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 2, 1998 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Hoop Dreams 
Over the summer. I 
M. Shannon Ryansat within inches of 
Saint Mary's Ediror 
sweat and muscle, 
history and inspira­
tion. 
As a member of the press covering the WNBA's Cleveland Hockers, I had to remind myself to remain unbiased and to concen­trate on the execution of the plays and the stats. But not even the stodgiest sports ana­lyst could watch these athletes bleed, con­vert no-look. behind-the-back passes and perfect three-pointers, without feeling a tin­gle. 
Not only were the games electric. the fans l'r1mzied and the players intense, but I. along with at least 8,000 Cleveland fans each game, witnessed the history of sports evolving. 
A little over 100 years ago, the first women's intercollegiate basketball game ended with Stanford sneaking past Berkeley with a final score of 2-1. 
Despite success in later years at the Olympic and collegiate levels, the sports world still considered professional women's basketball a joke. 
However. the days of faltering women's athletics seem to be being buried with the denial to vote and work. 
Luckily for aspiring female athletes, sports fans and the whole world in general. the WNBA is successfully rooting itself in the field of athletics. 
Who knows how many ways Cynthia Cooper, Houston Cornet star and two-time MVP, would out-dribble, out-rebound and out-shoot those pioneers who scored a com­bined :1 points in 1896. 
Progn~ss can be seen on any game night in Gund Arena, where Rockers fans put Cavs fans to shame-maybe because the Hockers had the colle~ctive skill to win the eastern conference championship. 
Even the face of the fan is changing into a diverse crowd -no more images of a beer­bellied man clutching a remote control. 
I saw little girls wave signs and beg for Susie McConnell Serio's autograph and little boys scream for Janice Braxton. Teenage males rooted equally as loud as mothers for Eva Nemcova, while grandparents vehe­mently booed Rebecca Lobo and Lisa Leslie. 
My family is perfect proof of the fan diver­sity. 
My mom lost it when the Hockers lost in the semi-finals; my 6-year-old niece has a Michelle Edwards poster hanging on her bedroom wall; my sports-inept sister now keeps an eye on ESPN; and my 19-year-old football player brother watches the games -even when part-time model Lisa Leslie is not on the court. 
Women seem to be en route to conquering not only the fans. but the world of sports as well -one of the final frontiers for equali­ty. 
With the effort, stamina, talent and desire in which these women play, it only takes one game to become hooked. Many people have told me they'd never go "watch girls play." After I took some of these people to games, they now call me up just to chat about Cooper or Swoopes. 
Finally, the phrase "tom boy" is phasing 
itself out. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author a11d not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Colleen McCarthy  Mark Higgins  
Christine Kraly  Production  
Sarah Hiltz  Anthony Bianco  
Sports  Allison Krilla  
M. Shannon Ryan  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Kevin Dalum  
Eddie Llull  
Scene  
Kristi Klitsch  

The Ob>rrvcr (USI'<. )'J'J 2-4000) is publi>hcd Monday through Friday excepr during exnm :1nJ vncarion period1o. Th(' Ob1oerver is a member of rhe Al>sociarcd Pre''· All n.:proJucrion right ... arc: re!>erved. 



r~ t ·d th D
~,~,~~::~~ u st e e orne 
\/ \j Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Strike affects telephone, Internet communications 
AMES, Iowa 
For many Iowa State students, the strike between U.S. West and the Communication Workers of America lCWA] came at a very inopportune time. 
A customer service representative at 
U.S. West who asked that his name not be released said even if the technicians returned to work this week. it would be at least a month before they would be caught up to all the work that needs to be done. 
As of Aug. 16, 32,000 members of the CWA went on strike after not accepting a proposed contract from U.S. West. 
The strike is affecting telephone ser­vice in the 14 states that U.S. West rep­resents. And for many students in Ames, getting new service has come to an abrupt halt. 
Justin llofl'man. a junior in advertis­ing, said he called to have service m­established after he moved. However, 

"This is unbelievable that it will take just over a month to get someone from 
U.S. 
West to come out to my house and most likely just flick a switch," Hollman said. 

When lloffman was able to provide 

U.S. 
West with the old number and name of the person who used to pay for the service, he was informed that he would have his line activated on Monday. 


According to a press release from 
U.S. West, automat!)d installation that does not rcquim a field visit is occur­ring at a rate approaching pre-strike levels. The press release further states, however, that "delays are being expPri­enced largely whore the dispatch of technicians is required." 
For many ISU students, the impor­tance of telephone service is eom pounded by the~ need filr access to tlw Internet. 
Nick Healey, a sophomore in comput­er science, said he does not think that 
U.S. West is helping him get the service he ncnds to do well in his courses. 
"I read somewhere that Iowa Stat!~ is the eighth most-connected university in the nation," llealey said. "Hight now I am not connected, because I cannot get telephone service from U.S. West. I am a computer science major, and because of that the majority of the information I need filr my eoursns is on the Intnrnet." 
• SYRACUSE Ui\HVERS!TY 
Former athletes file harassment suit 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Two former Syracuse University tennis players have !iled a multi-million dollar sexual harassment suit against SU and its athletic department. Senior Dacia Kornechuk and 1998 graduate Kirsten Ericson maintain that SU women's varsity tennis coach Jesse Dwire sexually harassed them ­both physically and verbally -throughout their tennis careers at SU. The $754 million dollar lawsuit alleges that Dwire: gave team members inappropriate. full-body mas­sages; instigated sexual discussions with team members including an instructional conversation with Ericson about how to give "good oral sex;" made sexist eomments to team members on a regular basis; used stretching exercises that allowed him to press his genitals against Kornechuk's thighs and genitals to intimidate her. The suit states that Dwire, who has been the varsity tennis coach since 1978, has been sexually harassing SU tennis players for 19 years. 
• UNIVERSITY Of tUJR!OA 
Tuition not to increase with credit hours 
TAMPA, Fla. 
State university undergraduates can breathe a sigh of relief after temporarily dodging a punitive proviso that called for a 50 percent increase in student tuition for each credit exceeding a 138-credit limit. Typically, a bachelor's degree requires 120 credits for completion. But the penalty is not dead yet. Although the 1998-99 school year will pass without enactment of the penalty, it may return next year. The legislation was approved in 1996 but was omitted from the general appropriations act for the school year of 1998­99 due to a senate oversight. According to Debi Galley, director for policy analysis for the state university system, the proviso was not written into the appropriations act, and after its passage, the bill was unable to be amended. However, Galley is uncertain about the future status and implementation of the proviso. "It was a senate initiative, a senate appropriation. and not 1weryone agreed to it," she said. "The governor's office has appeared neutral on this issue. It has always been the senate's issue." 

• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 
Athlete arrested for speeding, drugs 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Donnell Harris, a senior center on the University of Arizona's men's basketball team. was arrestPd by university police early Sunday morning for two warrants -one stem­ming from a drug violation -after being stopped for a traf­fic offense. Police stopped Harris for "weaving" at 12:05 a.m., said Sgt. Gene Taitano, a univPrsity police spokesman. Taitano said Harris showed no signs of impairment and was cooperative during the traffic stop, but a check revealed warrants from the Casa Grande Department of Public Safety for speeding and possession of marijuana. Taitano did not know the details concerning the warrants and referred thosP questions to the Casa Grande DPS. llarris was taken to the Pima County Jail and later released by Pre-Trial Services, Taitano said. The 6-foot-11-inch, 203-pound Harris, who was a reserve center for the Wildcats. met with coaches and athletic department ollicials Monday to discuss the incident. 
• UNIVERSITY Of UTAH 
Utah president aims for funding, esteem 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 

When he was supposed to present the list of the University of Utah's requests for new funding next year, President J. Bernard Machen handed regents a blank sheet of paper. Machen said he did not agn~e with the sys­tem that allows people not involved in the University to decide where every dollar in new money goes. Machen asked the board to allocate funds without a particular list from the University of where the money would be spent. He is hoping that the University will be considered one of the "public ivies" which include schools like the) University of California-Berkeley and the University of Virginia. "I would like to see the University recognized in the nation for the level of education that is received. as a part of tho prestigious public educational institutions," he said. Normal procedure has been that lawmakers allocate~ funds based upon reports given eaeh year to the board from the school. Tlwn they decido ·what new programs should lw funded. 
• SOUTH BEND \'\lEATHER • ~JAT!ONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Ac~,;uWcather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather<~~>torecast for noon, Wednesday, September 2, 1998 lines separate high temperature zones 1or the day. 
H L 


Wednesday 4, 74 55 Thursday ~74 54 Friday -(f 76 52 Saturday -(f 83 60 
Pressure 
H L


Sunday ~79 62 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Assocta/ed Press 

Aspen 79 38 Detroit 78 54 Malibu 85 71 Bo1se 98 60 Hartford 79 57 Miami 93 77 Boston 76 62 Helena 94 54 New York 82 66
9,Q,Qq~Q -!) ~ ~ 

Concord 97 65 Las Vegas 100 78 Seattle 82 60
Showers T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 

Denver 85 58 Lmcoln 89 63 Topeka 88 64
V1a Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet 




' 




omens 
ews 
Wednesday, September 2, 1998 
WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION 

Pro women's success ends reign of an all boys club 
By USA MAXBAUER the game "to blend ... the best nlenwnts from college and professional" competi­Women\ News hlitor tion, said .one member of' the WNBA Board ol' Gov<wnors. Even the ball has changed to the cnmm-and-orange-striped design, which is supposedly easier to 
l'iclurp Madison Squarl1 (;arden swarming with adolnsc1~nt 
l'ollow on a television s<Teen. girls. Parh small l'ranw proudly WParing an oV<\rsiwd jersey ol' Two The WNBA runs a sumnwr sdwdule eornpnting t.lw oflicial Wonwn's National Basketball Association (WNBA) time with fewer professional sports. The games are cov­NPw York Lilll'rty team. WNBA ernd on three national nntwork tolnvision stations, 
In limn. thPS<' girls will grow to lit the shirt's dimensions, while MVP ESI'N, NBC Sports and Lil'etimn. tlw lwart thny wear on tlwir slmwn is alrnady largPr than life. Cynthia "By choosing to play in the summer months, we 
This is tlw farn of IIH~ nnxt gPrwration of' athletPs and dream­Cooper were able to avoid already crowded \vintnr tehwision PI'S. Sin("(~ llw hirt h of Llw WN BA in I t)t)7. nnw opportunities, launches lineups and secure unprecedented broadcasting r·oiP-modPis and lnwls of athlntidsm have bn1m introdueed to the a jump arrangements," WNBA president Val Ackerman said. nation's youth. And it has all bnPn accomplished with tho eom­shot. The WNBA also gains high profile <~xposun\ l'rom its flPiiliw pal'<' of a t.hirty-snrond shot clock. Cooper numerous advertising and mark1~ting supporters. 
•Although maintaining thn· surr<~ss ol' tlw lnaguP has be<m as leads the Lady Foot Locker, Coca-Cola. American Express and intPnsn as dPf<'rHiing a full rotll·t prnss, Llw WNBA tnams contin-league General Motors are just a fnw nwmlwrs ol' the 11<' to build a solid /\mnrican following. with 22.7 WNBA's sponsorship line-up. Thn h~ague is also com­
"Thny now haw tlw opportunity to play basketball at tho high­points a mittml to raising public awarnnnss about llrnast I'St lnvnl at honw," WNBA sp<~cial advisor Lynn Barry said in a game Cancer. WPhsill~ intnrviPw. "Tiwy are anxious to showcasn thnir talents to for the the AmPriran puhlir." Houston Drawing a Crowd 
Dnspitn lim growing popularity, qunstions regarding the valid­Comets. Aided by the teamwork of nunHwous sponsors, 
'ity of prof1~ssional fnmaln sports havn not <!ntirnly disappnared. enthusiasm for women's professional bask11tball Still. otiH•rs misund<'rstand tlw dis<:rPpancies bntwnnn tho WNBA spread rapidly, packing arenas nationwidn. Last year and its promotPr, tiH~ infamous NBA. Thorn arn kny difl()rences thn avnrage attendaneo for onn of' the WNBA's night that IHLV<' nHL<I<' tlw WNBA's popularity grow sincB its inaugural Phoeo couru~y team match-ups was 9,669. Twelve months. and two 
ofwnbtt.com 
Sl'ilSOn onn ynar ago. expansion teams later. the crowds are sw<~lling. This summer. the rookie Washington Mystics franchise (;aining Exposure slammed the existing attendance record of 13,795, held by the Now York Liberty, 
For tlw WN BA to win the approval of the American sports fan. it required the when 20.674 fans showed up to see some girls play ball. right Pxposurn, and lots of it. With tlw inllLwntial backing of the NBA, this sister Heasonable ticket prices allow herds of sumnwr eampBrs and families to witnnss IPagun <'lll<'rgPd with a strong voir.e, a voice which sounds likn none heard before the games in person. The WNBA is also where many junior high and high school in profPssional llaskPtball. 
With its uniquPrwss, it r.hosn to do things dil'f'ernntly. They rnwrotn the rules ol' sec WNBA I page 4 I 
How do you perceive the WNBA? 

"I've watched it. I think it is great for women, especially as role models for young female athletes showing that they could have a career in basketball, even to the Derek Van Daniker 
professional Sophomore, Knott Hall level." 
"I've seen games flipping through the channels. The one thing that sticks out in my mind is how different the ball is. What's up with the ball, it's all messed Ashley Uehellwr up." Sophomore, Lc Mans IIHII 
"It makes sense. A lot of the girls from my high school are good basket­ball players. Women should have the same opportunities as men." 
Mike Kronk Freshman, Alumni Hllll 
"It's a good thing women are finally playing pro ball. It won't be as big as NBA because there isn't as much hype. People think men's games are more exciting. It just hasn't caught on Yet." 
Abby Ross Freshman, l'astJuerilla East 


"I've never really watched a game. I'm not against it, I just haven't really paid attention." 
Chris Ortiz 
N.D. Graduate Student 
"I watch New York and Houston. It was really cool to see it in the summer because there weren't any other games on. There should be more fan 
support." James Montoya Sophomore, Stanford Hall 



Fast pace extends far beyond court 
Susie McConnell Serio rarnlycalls 
a timeout-even in the ofT season. 
Like most WNBA players. 
McConnell Serio won't be found 
putting on the green, lounging pool­
side or stumbling into scandals 
aftnr her outstanding season with 
tho eastem eonl'ereneo champion 
Cleveland Hoekers. Instead ·the 5­
foot-5 point guard and WNBA 
Neweorner of thn Year can bnst be 
tracked down busy with her chil­
dren on the playground or coaching . in a high school ~:,rymnasium. 
Arter taking ofT six years from her 
job on the professional eourts, in 
which time she had four ehildnm, 
McConnell Serio rallied back to her 
usual physical pnrfection. 
A smart, scrappy player, 
McConnell Serio somehow man­
aged to pack a 48-hour routine into 
just one day to achieve success. 
. "It was a long journey," said tho 
l9R8 Penn State grad in a website 
interview. "When I started training, 
my skills wero pretty rusty. I was 
out of' shape and I was slower. I 
lilught through nagging injuries and 
trying to 
lind time 
with four 
kids  to  'THE FANCY CARS, ALL  tho  even  more  dillkult  
work out."  THE MONEY, THAT'S  job of being a parent."  
Owner or  NOT WHAT IT'S LIKE HERE.'  Besides  a  three- 
a  n  month s<mson, many of  
Olympic  the pros hold down one  
B I' on z e  SusiE McCoNNELL Smuo  or  two  other jobs and  
and a Gold  WNBA PLAYHII  devote chunks of their  

modal for the U.S. team, she finished tlw season, which nnded in the semifinal playoff's, with 8.(J points per game and lied for second in the league with 6.4 assists per ganw. 
With her husband and her kids cheering her on, McConnell Serio 
time to volunteerism, such as the WNBA mis­
sion  of raising  aware­ 
ness about brnast cancer.  
Detroit  Shock  coach  Nancy  

I.ieberrnan-Cline is no excnption. She keeps up a pace that is just as fast as her team sprints up and down the court. 
Besides coaching the 1998 expan­defined her heetie sumnwr schnd­ule as a fantasy. 
"Pete !her husband! encouraged me, he supported me, and he's the one who has had the crazy sum­mer," she said. ''I've been able to ful!ill a dream." 
Awarded for her sportsmanship this season, this modern Renaissance woman is also a spokesperson for Blue Cross and Blue Shield and a moti­vational speaker for community service. 
"I have to say," said WNBA presi­dent Val Ackerman while presenting McConnell Serio with her award, "as a working mom myself ... how much I personally admir:n 

tho way that Susie Cleveland Rockers' star Susie the struggln in lws -so artfully McConnell Serio. wonwn 's ath­
and ell'ortlessly, and 
I know it's not effortless, but shn 
makes it look that way -been able to juggle tho rosponsi­bilitios or being a pro­fessional athlete with 
sion Shock. l.iebnrman-Ciine also 
serves as the team's gmwral man­
agPr, a sports marketing company 
owner, a color analyst for ESI'N and 
a full-time parent with lwr husband who eommutns to his job from Detroit. 
Lynette Woodard. the first remain Ilarlnm Globetrotter, Olympic gold medalist and now (J-I'oot center l'or the Shock. also works as a New York City stockbroker. 
Even though her daily plan­ner may be booked solid. Linbnrman­
Photo c'ourusy ofwuha.com Ciinn knows 
leties is fading out. 
From thn gloomy days of unsup­port<~d and subsPqwmtly buckling leagues to the popularity of tho WNBA, legendary I.iebnnnan-Clinn knows what the game ran be at its worst ltnd at its best for profnssion­al women. 
At tho ago of 18, shn beramn tho youngest basketball play1~r in histo­ry to win an Olympie medal ( 1976, Montreal). At age 38, slw playml in a Phoenix Mercury jersey fiw her final season -thn WNBA's inaugural season. 
Woodard has also bnen a nwolu­tionist in the liveliest y<Htrs of women's basketball. 
Coming out of the University of Kansas as a national plwnom. 
see ROLES I page 4 
t 
page 4 The Observer • WOMEN'S NEWS Wednesday, September 2, 1998 

WNBA 
continued from page 3 
level teams gather for inspiration in the oll'-season. A select few even earn the privilege of playing on the professional hardwood during WNBA half-times. 
The WNBA draws a varied crowd. but many famed celebri­ties have been spotted in the stands such as Donald Trump, Rosie O'Donnell, Tyra Banks, Gregory I lines, Gabriel Heece and Steven King. 
Talent Sells Tickets 
Advertising assists the success of the WNBA, but skill keeps the fans loyal during season number two. Tlw abilities of these female athletes sold and resold over one million tickets after the first year of play. 
The WNBA currently has ten competitive franchises, with an eleventh in the works. The Eastern Conference roster is made up of ti~Chilrlotte Sting, Cleveland H.oekers, New York Liberty and new-comers the Washington Mystics and Detroit Shock. An equally impressive lineup starts ofl' the West with the Houston Comets, Los Angeles Sparks, Phoenix Mercury, Saeramento Monarehs and Utah Starzz. 
The inaugural season champi­ons were the Houston Comets over New York with a score of 65-51. Last night culminated the second WNBA championship series. The three game series was tied at 1-1 when Houston stole a repeat defeat over Phoenix 80-71. The finals were broadcasted in 20 languages, by 
Roles 
continued from page 3 
Woodard's only career options were on the other side of the globe, where she played seven seasons between teams in Japan and Italy. 
"After finishing playing bas­ketball in college I realized the only options to play further were overseas," Woodard said. "That meant you had to leave your family and friends behind. expensive telephone bills and loneliness." 
33 international television sta­
Her official welcome back, tions in 148 counties. 
after a four-year hiatus, came 
when she played for the Rockers Leaders of the Pack 
in the first WNBA season. As in all competitive sports, the 
"It was awesome to finally play best of the best will emerge. By 
the game you love, with heart earning the WNBA's most valu­
and soul, at the WNBA level on able player award for the first 
national television all across two seasons, Houston's Cynthia 
America," she said. "It was real­Cooper has become the face of 
ly neat to take it all in last yearwomen's professional basketball. 
and I had a true appreciation,At the age of 35, hers is the face 
especially considering the earlyof experience as she leads the 
struggles that women's basket­league with an average of 22.7 
ball had to fight through." points a game. The fans love 
A boss of former court oppo­"Coop." 
nents and teammates,
The Sparks' Lisa Leslie is the leading rebounder for the WNBA Lieberman-Cline has applied her relentless work ethic on the hard floors to the sidelines and demands as much from her players. 
"I love playing the game of basketball and l hope that my desire, passion and commitment to the game shows because it's a lot simpler at 25 when you don't have a family and television deals and businesses," she said. "I love the professionalism of the women in this league. If you don't. want to play for me, it's your job, so leave. I'll give these women every opportunity to suc­ceed. If they don't want to be here, there are plenty of women who'd like to get their pay­check." 
Not so many male players would, though. 
Despite the players' balancing acts, their salaries are a fraction of those of NBA stars. 
If Michael Jordan were "Michelle," he would not be pon­dering a $33. million contract. Instead he'd be part of an entire league earning a combined salary one-eleventh of his actual going price. 
Even though the American 
F48' HEWLETT' 
II:~ PACKARD 
Where is it? LaFortune Ballroom 
TOSHIBA
Wednesday, September 2, 
.,UULICU meet @ 5:00pm Upperclassmen @ 5:45pm Ends @ 7:30 pm 
Join Campus Ministry in the new class of Latino fre 
Basketball League, the WNBA's competitor, pays better, the WNBA gives female players a name. Many stars like the New 
York  Liberty's  Teresa  
Weatherspoon  and  the  
Washington  Mystic's  Nikki  

McCray switch from the ABL. despite the smaller salary. 
"The fancy cars, all the money, that's not what it's like here," McConnell Serio said. "The sea­son is short, but that will grow and with that, so will tlw salaries." 
And with the growth of the league, it will b1~ a little easier for women to laugh at those who don't believe in tlw survival ol' the WN13A 
"They always told me I ean't," stated Woodard. "When you do something diff'erent and the rest of the world doesn't see it, and you're the only one in the world that can see it, you take a ,ot of heat," Woodard said. "They call you a fanatic, but you have to hold onto that and it's easy to do because it's coming from inside." 
Information .from www.wnba.com/rockers con­tributed to this report. 
pulling down over ten boards a game. Ticha P1micheiro averages 
7.5 assists each day she com1~s out to play aiding her team, the Monarchs. 
Teresa Weatherspoon's speed 
UA NT••D
earned her 1998 Defensive Player of the Year, inspiring New York fans to wear "T-Spoon" T­shirts. By The Comets' coach Van Chancellor, was honored 





Price$
with consecutive Coach of the Year recognition. And the Bookie of' the Year belonged to the String with the impressions made by Tracy Heid. 
On All Your School Needs At 
Weatherspoon, Leslie, Penicheiro. Coooper and Heid are a sampling of the many ath­letes and role models behind the recent success of women's pro­fessional basketball. As their skills continue to be showcased 
~f1ce DBP02! in cities around the nation, the next generation of ball players will not be limited to wondering "if I could be like Mike". but now also, "if I could be like Coop." 
Information from www.wnba.com contributed to this article. 

Incredible Values Every Day At Our Copy & Print Center! 
,-2--------~---------------­
. .., Se~SeNe · Black & White Copies 
Off; applits i;~~~ ,;,d while ro~es with B·ll' x II", 20 lb. bond pop~ only limi!IOO c~~es P! customer/company. Offer good on ropies from same original, one 1~ed, uned11ed B·~ x 1.1 Must present toupon at time of service. limit one coupon per custom.er/compony. V~hd on ~Jf.~erve.copymgonly. No subsU!ulions. NM-ne[Oiiable. Coupon< canool be combUied.. PhoiO<Ofll'l or reprodud10n< no! accejiled. OH01 ex~res12/ll/98. Good ol ony OffiCe 0'!101 (opy & Prml (enter. 
OrLJce.DJIIPOT. Coupon (ode 25'19 
-.~ (INDIANA TOLL AD.) 
Mishawaka
-~~~-' 
~[TQ,Sl ~~ 
Grape Rd.
Jv~cml 
The Crossings (219) 277-2009
...~----..
OPEN DAILY: 7:00am-9:00pm SAT.: 9:00am·9:00pm SUN.: 10:0Danr6:00pm WE ACCEPT: Discover. Visa, Mastercard, American Express & The Office Depot Credit Card & Technology Card 


Wednesday, September 2, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS Reno begins search for truth 
WASIIINCTON 
Alt.orrwy (;ennral JanPl 
HPno has begun an inVI~sti­
galion to determinn 
wlwtlwr llarold Ickes, a for­
nwr top White llousP aide, 
t~ommitted perjury bdore a 
Senate committen, it was 
disclosnd ynstnrday. Hnno 
notified a special fPdt~ral "'----­
parwl of judges that she had bngun a 90-day 
investigation of Ickes -an inquir:y that could 
lnad to tlrn appointnwnt of an independnnt 
rounsel to investigate alh~gations of campaign 
finance abuses in 199(>. Hepublicans have 
I>PPn demanding such a swneping probe. 
HPrH>'s annourH·Pmnnt r.anw on the nve of a 
bril'ling slw is sdwdulml to give leadnrs of the 
lloust• and Snnai.P Judiciary committet~s on 
WPdrwsday. 
Problems found at nuke plant 
LONDON 
A Scottish nudmtr plant found leaking two 
years ago and now shtted to close still has many chronic safdy problems, according to a report rP!nasnd yesterday. Investigators found no immediate public danger but argued that "considerabln eflhrt. limn and resources" were rwmlnd to make the Dounrnay plant on the sparsely inhabited northr.rn coast of Scotland safp. Tlw rnport listnd 143 recommnndations, including the need to improve handling of radioaetive waste. A three-month audit by Britain's llnalth and Safety Executive, which monitors rivilian nudear sitos, and the Scottish l<:rJVironmont l'rotnetion Agency began .Jurw 1 af'tpr an accident in which a power , eable was sliced by a digger, eutting olT power for 16 hours. In the report, investigators lwaped criticism on the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, which runs the 
plant. 
British, Irish plan crackdown 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
The British and Irish governments 
unveiled plans Tuesday for a joint crack­
down on a band of IHA dissidents who engi­
IIIH~red tlw deadliest bombing in three 
deeades in Northern Ireland. The plans are 
almost certain to be approved in emergency 
parliamentary sessions this week. Also, in a 
carefully worded statement tied to 
Thursday's visit by President Clinton, Sinn 
Fein party leadflr Gerry Adams proclaimed 
that "the violence we have seen must be t'or 
all of us now a thing of the past, over, done 
with and gone." The statement represented 
a significant rhetorical shift for his IHA­
allied party and was welcomed by the 
British and Irish prime ministers, Tony 
Blair and Bertie Ahern as well as by 
Clinton. 
• MARKET WATCH • CONGO 
Troops block rebel safe passage 
AFP Photo 
Congolese politicians and commanders arrived at the Mataldi airport last week. The port town was recaptured from rebels by Angolan forces during the struggle against a rebel challenge to Democratic Republic of Congo's President Laurent Kabila. 
AssociATED PREss Deputy South African President campaign in Congo's monthlong civil 
Thabo Mbeki told SABC radio he was war. Kabila's government, mean­
KINSHASA "confident" the parties would reach while, has received military help from 
Government-allied troops were an agreement on a cease-fire. Zimbabwe, Angola and Namibia. 
blocking rebel fighters yesterday from But peace talks, at least until now, Hwanda denies it has troops in 
seeking safe passage out of western have gone nowhere. Congo but says it may intervene to 
Congo, where a recent government The rebels still control several key protect its interests. Uganda says it 
offensive has largely purged insurgent cities in --eastern Congo and have has troops in Congo as part of a bor­
forces. vowed to press on with their fight to der defense agreement. 
In the eapital. Kinshasa, Congo's topple President Laurent Kabila. A Ugandan military spokesman said 
government put about 50 war prison­An unspecified number of rebels Tuesday his country's army will keep 
ers it says were from Uganda and trying to flee from near Songololo, a troops in eastern Congo to fight 
Rwanda on display before reporters town about 150 miles southwest of Ugandan rebels there. 
Tuesday in an effort to prove those Kinshasa, were denied passage. They "We cannot pull out of Congo now," 
countries arc masterminding the are "effectively considered prisoners said Capt. Shahan Bantariza. 
rebellion. of war," Deputy Interior Minister The war prisoners put on display 
ln South Africa, meanwhile, where Faustin Munene said on state radio. Tuesday wore plain khaki clothing 
heads of state were gathering for the "They will not be given safe passage provided by the Congolese govern­
Nonaligned Movement summit in the until all Rwanda and Uganda forces ment and showed no military or 
city of Durban, U.N. Secretary­withdraw from the east," he said. national markings. The government 
General Kofi Annan called for the Kabila accuses neighboring Rwanda said they were from Uganda and 
withdrawal of all foreign troops. and Uganda of orchestrating the rebel Rwanda. 
Dow rebounds, but experts warn that it isn't over yet 
ASSOCIATED PRESS St. Louis. "But we wore out the sell­totaled a reeord 1.204 billion shares ers and now the buyers are coming as of 4 p.m., up from 914.77 million NEW YORK back." in the previous session. Total U.S. 
Dow 
JONES 
Wall Street roared back Tuesday, The Dow rose 288.36 to 7,827.43 stock market volume was 2.756 bil­

AMEX: NYSE: 
with the. Dow Jones industrial aver­in its second-biggest point gain ever, lion, the second busiest day ever.
588.68 495.93 
age surging 288.36 points in a dra­cutting into Monday's 512-point Despite Tuesday's strong rally, matic turnaround that recouped loss. With Tuesday's gain, the Dow analysts warned that thn gains may
+23.61 +15.33 
more than half of Monday's losses. was just 81 points below the level at be temporary and predicted the Investors brushed oft' concerns the end of last year, 7,908.25. But it market will turn even lower in corn­that the booming times were over on still was 16.2 percent below its ing weeks before making a true 
00 
Wall Street, and threw money baek record of9,337.97 set on July 17. mcovery.
Nasdaq: S&P 500: 
00 
.~ into stocks, many enticed by the Broader indicators also rose Calling it a "bear trap," many said 
C"l 
1575.09 994.26 
.~cheap deals availablfl from the Tuesday, including the technology­it's likely that Tuesday's rebound 
~ recent sharp declines. heavy Nasdaq composite index, may only lead to bigger losses until
+ 
+75.84 +36.98 
~ "We saw major carnage in the which rallied a record 75.84 points the market hits a satisfactory low. ~market Monday," said Alfred following a record plunge of 140.43 "We have not hit the bottom yet," ~ Goldman, director of market analy­points on Monday. said Alan Ackerman, senior vice 
~ sis at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in New York Stock Exchange volume president at Fahnestock & Co.
7827.43 
~--------------------------------~F 
Wednesday, September 2, 1998
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Political variables impact Chile 
By MAGGY TINUCCI 
News Writer 
In post-authoritarian ruled Chile, social cleav· ages such as class, rcU~ gion and urban or rural residence have less impact on coalition and party identification than political variables, accord· ing to Scott Mainwaring of the department of Government and International Studies for the Kellogg Institute. 
Last night, Mainwaring highlighted five political variables that have had a 
significant impact on coalition identification in Chile since 1989. They include: the country's eco­nomic situation at the time of elections, the basis of government perfor­mance in the recent past, the opinion of the current Christian Democratic president, the opinion of conservative opposition, and the variance that exists between the center left and the conservative right. 
A deliberate downplay of class distinction on the part of party elites was necessary to be able to defeat the dictator in the early 1980's and has been successful in reshaping the political party system; he said. The current sys"" tem includes two liberal parties and two conserva­tive parties. 
With the governmental changes, the Socialist party underwent profound change from a party that emphasized class distinc­tion to an emphasis on accepting democracy and maintaining economic pol­icy -a decision on the part of party elites that Mainwaring said led to an avoidance of class dis­course, ..4r· 
This political crafting of the p.arties ha.s proved that only in so far as par­ties hi.ghlight the differ­ences of. class do they make a difference in party identification, he said. 
With the de-emphasis on class in post 1989 Chile, social cleavages have all but disappeared as a factor, Mainwaring said. 
The military regime has also helped to reshape the party system in Chile. 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
"I sen this as a day of celebration for Saint Mary's women to get together and reflect on the quality of their nducation and tho spirit of the College," sophomore elass president Carolyn Kelley said. 
The Student Activities Board has planned several multicultural events, including a showing of the movie "Selena" on Sept. 27 in Carrol Auditorium. 
Students should bring their SAB frequent attendance cards tcr SAB events throughout the semester, SAB coordinator .Janet I lorvath said. 
BOG also discussed tlw creation of a lettnr that would be written by BOG to the parents of Saint Mary's studcmts. 
"A lot of times there~ is confusion about breaks and different activities, such as Junior Moms Weekend. This letter might help clear some of those up," a BOG membPr said . 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
nect ethnic alumnae with current students for advice and job opportunities. 
"We'd like to strengthen our alumnae connections," Smith said. "We want to encourage them to come back to campus and speak about their lives as professionals, discuss issues they face at work, or help set up internships and other opportuni­ties." 
Smith said that she knows that changing the College face will not be an overnight job, but it is a realistic one. 
"I do not want anyone to be disillusioned," Smith said. "It's going to take more than my last year here, but maybe within the next few years, or next ten years at least, [the College] can really bare down." 
If that is a suecess, Smith said, other freshmen will not have to wonder where a Baptist church is or feel like they are alone at Saint Mary's, like she did. 
"Right now, the best route is to create environment where minorities can flourish," Smith said. "Even if they are more heavily recruited, it's not worth it if they don't feel nurtured and welcome here." 
La Fuerza 
Since 1991, La Fuerza has been 
listed as a elub. llowever, without 
ollicers or commitment. the orga­
nization faltered. 
With 21 Hispanic students in 
the freshman class -and with a 
llispanic community that makes 
"We want to let others know it's okay to be you," Rodriguez said. "Let others ask you ques­tions, without being offended. They'll learn their history th.~ough food, music, movies 
Sisters of Nefertiti 
Sisters of Nefertiti is described as an organization to support and learn about African-American women and culture -but its leaders stress that the group is open to all races in order to create a truly diverse community. 
"A number of student [mem­bers in the organization) are from outside the African­American race," said Tysus Jackson, president of Sisters of Nefertiti. "To be multicultural, we need everyone. 
"Besides promoting the cul­ture, we really work together," Jackson continued. "For 30 minutes, we might just talk about what's on our minds or what's been happening to us personally." 
Sisters of Nefertiti also dedi­
cates itscllf to bringing culture 
to the campus. Talent shows, 
poetry readings, lecturers, 
movies and essay contests have 
been sponsored by the organi­
zation. 
"It's really hard to not hear your music or to see a movie [about one's culture)." Jacksun said. "We're going to try to continue promoting the culture on campus. That way. it's a lot easier (for people on campus] to understand the plight of minorities." · 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
Notre Dame Football vs. 

• 
Michigan State University 


•
•
•
•
•


Bus Trip •• •
• •
•
• 
Saturday, September 12 •• 
• Bus leaves: 2:00 p.m. Stepan Center • 
(Bus leaves Michigan State Stadium 30 minutes •
•
•

following the end of the game) 
•
•
• Tickets on sale starting at I 0:00 a.m. on September 3 •• • •
at the LaFortune Info Desk 
•
•
•
•
• 

:$20 per bus ticket for round trip bus transportation to MSU:
• 2 tickets per student ID ••• • Brought to you by the Student Activities Office ••• 
•
•
• 
up the College's largest minority group -La Fuerza has a new initiative, a new dedication and planned meetings. 
Already this semester, the group -whose name means "force" or "strength" -held a fundraiser selling Spanish foods and drinks and 50/50 raffle tick­ets. 
La Fuerza president Rocio Rodriguez said that a goal of the club is to connect Saint Mary's students with South Bend's Hispanic community. 
"South Bend has one of the highest rates of Hispanics, but they are not targeted so much for help," said junior Rodriguez. "We want to be able to help them out. show young kids that there is a chance for them." 
La Fuerza is planning on work­ing through La Casa de Amistad and with one area high school. 
The group is also aiming at strengthening the bond of Latin women at Saint. Mary's. Included in this year's activities are camp­ing, dancing and a trip to Chicago. 
Through the multiple events, Hodriguez said. La Fuerza hopes to educate Saint Mary's students about the culture. 
Would you like to teach area high school students? Does Management Consulting interest you? Do you believe that business can improve the world? 
SR•  Students for Responsible Business New Leaders for Better Business  
First General Meeting  


Wednesday, September 2nd 5:00pm COBA room 160 
.Open to all majors 
Pizza and refreshments will be served. 
Please contact Christo Banick (273-24 I 3 or Banick. l@nd.edu) orJoson Moskowitz (273-9227 or 
Moskowitz.2@nd.edu), if you hove any questions. 

Wt:dncsday, September 2, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
MBA program expands beyond confines of South Bend 
By LOU BEL CRUZ 
News Wrir,·r 
Notrn Dame's Exeeuliv(~ MBA dislitnce learning program will nxpand to a sneond site in I nd ianapol is for thn 199S-99 
•u~admnic ynar using a statn-of­
thn-art vidnoconl'nrnncing sys­
tl~ Ill. 
Devdopnd in 1995, the dis­tanee lnarning program at Notre Dame is the first of its kind in higher edueation and was reeogniznd by the U.S. Distance Lnarning Association as thn country's best in l99CJ. 
"Thn information age is upon us, and business and tnehnolo­gy havn grown. We are serving those students who wish to narn an MBA from Notre Dame but eannot eome here," said Arnold Ludwig, assistant dean 



WfED~fE~D~ r9!2!98 
f5·g3(Q) TO 1 g(Q)(Q) 
•fREE 
FOOD 

•LIVE 
MUSIC 


•BANNER CONTEST 
COMIE TO ~TONIEHIENGIE AND HIElP THE ~TIUD/ENT GOV'T GHIE/E~ ON. TH/E I~I~Hi 
Dorm Banner Contest 
Sponsored by your Student Gov't and Classes of'99, '00, '01, and '02! 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies in conjunction with Gender Studies 
Collegn of Businnss Administration complex to spn­cially equipped rooms at the four sites. 
The two elassrooms in the Naimoli Building are equipped with a variety of tracking and documnnt cameras, video moni­tors. push-to-talk and wirnless microphones, VCHs and person­al computers networked to the Internet and World Wide W1~b. 
"Two key factors to our suc­cess are the nasn of use of the systf~m and feeling it imparts to our distance students; it mak(~S thnm feel like they arn right here on campus with us," said Ludwig. 
Ten to 12 students are at each site, and classes "mnet" every other Friday and Saturday, making it possible for both on and ofT-campus stu­dents to maintain full-time employment. Notre Dame busi­ness professors in the distance learning program arn Executivn MBA faculty who have be(m trained in the use of the video­eonfernncing system. 
A faeilitator represents Notrn Dame at the remote sites dur­ing all class sessions to handle all administrative issues and jobs. 
"Our goal is to serve both the educational and convenienc(~ needs of our students and cor­poral!~ partners," said Ludwig. "O!Tering the Executive MBA Program through distance learning allows the students and their employnrs aceepss to a high quality education while also saving tlwm the tinu~ and expense of trav(~l." 
for Exeeutive Education in the Collf~ge of Business Administration. "We are essen­tially taking thn distancf~ out of learning." 
The University's Exeeutive MBA Program and Ameriteeh have joined together, forming a 
I 
a 
partnership to expand the dis­tance learning program. This will give businnss professionals in Indianapolis the opportunity to earn a Notre Dame MBA at Ameritech's downtown ofl'ices without leaving their jobs or the city. 
Othnr program sites include the Carrier Corporation's offices in Indianapolis, Ameritech's corporate head­quarters in the Chicago suburb of Hoffman Estates, and Owens-Illinois Inc. in Toledo, Ohio. 
"The ongoing partnership with Notre Dame is one that Ameriteeh values immensely," said Hobert Koch. videoconfer­encing product specialist at Ameritech. "This particular project not only allows us to offer Indianapolis-area profes­sionals access to one of tho most sought after executive MBA programs in tho country, but also confirms our commit­ment to our customers and to our partners." 
The program operates on technology that allows for real­time interaction between stu­dents at the sites and on-earn­pus faculty and students. The system is based upon two-way audio and compressed digital video that links two elassrooms in the Naimoli Building of the 
Pieces of history on display in library 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY 
News Writer 
A quick jaunt through the lobby of the llesburgh Library reveals two new display eases full of yellow bricks, wooden planks and century-old window frames that flank tho entrancn to the bookshelves. 
The artifacts arc part of a dis­play about the history of tiH~ Main Building at Notre Dame. The display encompasses the entire history of tlw building, from the original designs of architect W . .J. Edbrooke to photographs of the current ren­ovation that has closed the building until next fall. 
In the spring, George Hugg, a curator at the library, approached Archives Curator of Exhibits Nancy llanson about ernating a display of artifacts and photographs. !Janson then began to eollect the display's artifacts and photographs with another library eurator. 
They spent two months look­ing at historic items from the Main Building. deciding which ones would not be used after the renovation was complete. They then coll(~cl(~d and cata­logued tlwm. By tlw middle of July, the display was put together. 
!Janson is also working with others to develop a Notre Dame exhibit for the Nortlwrn Indiana Cf\nter of llistory in South Bend. 
The exhibit, selwduled to open in .July 1999, will run for three years and focus on a dif­ferent aspect of Notre Damn life eaeh year. 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-

we can special order any book you need! 
Fall Semester Sale! 
20% OFF ALL BOOKS SEPTEMBER 1-4 ·' . 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE 234-0003 •lasalle@michiana.org 237 N. Michigan St., downtown So. Bend (at LaSalle) Open I 0-5, Monday -Friday, parking due south 
For further inlonnation call (2 19) 631-5610 or visit the Devers Web site at http://www.nd.cdw-dcvers 

Wednesday, September 2, 1998
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Traffic patterns will change for football game 

Bradley to deliVer first lecture tonight 

1st Prize Color TV 
Other Prizes Include: -2nd Place Team -3rd Place Team 
-Worst Team -Long Drive -Closest to the Pin $36 per 4 person team, call Erich or Mike @ 4 x 3546 
Sunday, September 20th at Notre Dame 
*one free sleeve of golf balls per entering player, anyone can enter Sponsored by: 

f'R/cEWAfERHousf(?DPERS I 
MEN'S WATER POLO INFORMATIONAL MEETING AND FIRST PRACTICE TONIGHT!! WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2 ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 8:30PM ALL SKILL LEVELS AND EXPERIENCE WELCOME 
Special to The Observer 
A one-way traflic pattern on streets approaching Notre Dame will begin at 11 a.m. Saturday, 30 minutes earlier than usual in anticipation of early traffic arriving for the season-opening football game against the University of Michigan. Local law enforce­ment officials are urging fans to allow extra time when trav­eling to the stadium. 
The game-day traffic pattern will make most streets sur­rounding the University one­way toward campus bnfore the game and one-way from cam­pus for about one hour after the game. 
By TOM ENRIGHT News Wrirer 
Former Senator Bill Bradley (D-N.J.) will deliver a public lec­t~re tomorrow at 7 p.m. in 
Washington Hall. 
The senator will deliver this lecture as the first installment of a six part series this fall 

entitled "Six Bill Bradley N e w American Healities." 
Bradley served in the U.S. Senate from 1979-1997 and was active in the areas of tax reform, international trade, pension n~form, and improved race rela­tions, according to a Notre Dame news release. Since leaving the Senate, Bradley has lectured at Stanford University and the University of Maryland, served as chair of the National Civic League and the Advertising Council's Advisory Committee on Public Issues. 
He has also acted as an essay­ist for the CBS Evening News and served as senior advisor and vice chair of the International Council at J.P. Morgan and Co. 
Having graduated with honors in American history in 1965 from Princeton University, Bradley received a Rhodes 
Notre Dame has added some 4,000 general admission park­ing spaces to the large Jot one­half mile north of campus at Juniper and Pendle Roads, according to Philip Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security/Police. With more than 10,000 new spaces now available at that location, parking areas at lloly Cross College no longer will be used. In another change, Green field, a grass lot at the corner of Notre Dame and Angela Blvd., has been designated as a reserved area. 
"Our plan to provide ade'­quate parking for the addition­al fans (brought on by stadium expansion) worked well last 
scholarship to Oxford University 
where he earned a graduate 
degree with his studies in poli­
tics, philosophy and economics. 
He then served 11 years in the 
Air Force Reserve from 1967 to 
1978. 
While at Princeton, Bradley 
was a three-time basketball All­
American. He was a member of 
the 1964 Olympic basketball 
team and won a gold medal at 
the Tokyo games. After return­
ing from Oxford in 1967, 
Bradley played for the New York 
Knicks for 10 years. 
Bradley has written about his 
experiences with the Knicks in 
his book "Life on the Run," 
which was published in 1976. He 
is also the author of "The Fair 
Tax," a 1982 book that helped 
popularize ideas which led to the 
Tax H.eform Act of 1986. "Time 
Present, Time· Past" is Bradley's 
most recent work. Published in 
1996, it is a memoir based upo'n 
his experiences as a senator. · This semester Bradley is also 
conducting a. one-credit course 
entitled "Problems, Policy and 
Leadership." Only 34 students 
chosen by lottery can attend the 
course, which is assisted by John 
Hoss, a professor of government 
and international studies. 
. Bradley's five other lectures at 
Notre Dame are scheduled for 
Sept. 14, Oct. 2, Oct. 27 or 28, 
Nov. 9 and Nov. 30. 
season, with more than enough parking spaces available," Johnson said. "After the first game, traffic flow improved considerably. We will continue to work with area law enforce­ment agencies and traffic offi­cials to continue the smooth flow of traffic on game day. Still, fans should plan to aJ]ow extra travel time to and from the stadium especially for the Michigan game." 
Since parking on the south side of campus is ·limited, Johnson said fans are urged to use the parking areas at Juniper and Pendle. 
"I can't stress enough that fans should plan to park north of campus, as there is very lim-
CLASS OF 2000 


GOLF SCRAMBLE!! 
ited public parking on the south end of campus," he said. 
TRANSPO will provide bus transportation to and from campus and the Pendle Road parking area. Transportation for people with disabilities will be available along the same route. Buses also will provide shuttle service from Saint Mary's, Town and Country Shopping Center and motels north of campus along State Road 933 (formerly U.S. 33). For more information on shut­tle service, call (219) 233-2131. 
General admission parking costs $7. including transporta­tion to and from the parking lots. 
Motorists are urged to use the following routes: 
• 
From the Indiana Toll Road. use exits 72, 77 or 83. From exit 72, follow signs north to Brick/Cleveland Road, then drive east to Juniper and south to general admission parking. 

• 
From exit 77. proceed north (left) on State Hoad 933 (for­merly U.S. 33) to Cleveland Hoad, then oast to Juniper and south to general admission parking. Do not turn south (right) on S.H. 933 from exit 77. 

• 
From exit 83, follow State Hoad 23 west to Cleveland Road, then west to Juniper and south to general admission parking. and south to general admission parking. 


QUESTIONS? CONTACT WILL MCCARTHY@ 271-1957 
Wednesday, September 2, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT rage C) 

MEET WITH ERNST & YOUNG ON CAMPUS 
University of Notre Dame 
Tailgate 9/5 • Presentation 9/15 Business Career Fair 9/17-9/18 Engineering Career Fair 9/23 Interview 10/7 Interview 10/8 
They're in touch, in transit and in demand . .. on-5ite, on-line and on-the-move ... improving businesses, envisioning future technologies and driving change ... think­ing outside the box, designing solutions and delivering value to customers. 
They're Ernst &Young management consul­tants, and they're going places-making a global impact in one of the most dynamic fields of the 90's and beyond. 
As an Ernst & Young management consul­
tant, you'll help companies from Fortune 1,000 giants to Silicon Valley start-ups explore new strate­gies, methods, markets and technologies -long before others are even aware they exist. 
Of equal importance, while you're learning and achieving, we'll put all the strength of our industry­leading organization behind your own career development. With 13,000 consultants delivering ideas and solutions from 89 offices worldwide, we provide an unparalleled world of resources and the opportunity to grow and learn with a proven leader in today's business. 
Please forward your resume to: EY Careers, Dept. 1 0018, 113 Terrace Hall Avenue, Burlington, MA 01803; Fax Toll Free to Dept. 1 0018: 1-877 -4EY-JOBS; or E-mail: dept.1 0018®eycareers.com. Please be sure to indicate the department number on your cover letter and resume for routing purposes. Please visit our web site at: http://www.ey.com. No phone calls please. 
EllERNST&YOUNG LLP 
Em1t & Young UP, an equal opponunny employc'T, values uw divc'Tsity of our work force and the knouilc£li:c of our /Jcopk. 
----·-------pi 








IEWPOINT 
OTHE 
page 10------------------------------------------------BSERVER -------------------------------Wednesday, September 2, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher MacKenzie 
NEWs EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llul! AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brm Huelat SPORTS EDITOR...... . ......... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klicsch CoNTROLLER .......................Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ......M. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR . . ................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of the Universicy ofNmre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colleg~. h does not necessarily reflect the polides of the administration of eirher institUiion. The news is reported a.c; accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's communicy and to all rc.-aders. The free expression of varying opinions 
rhrough lc:uers is encouraged. 
Conrac1ing The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/As;isrant ME 631-4541 Advenising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo · 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
• liKE ARROWS IN THE HAND Of A WARRIOR 
The May Crowning 


So it happened. With a little bit of effort, she was up. After the first words, the strange reminder of an instrument of tor­ture led the way. Chances are you saw her, if you were not studying for you finals as you should have been, but out on the Quad on that Friday of Study Days. 
Gabriel Martinez 
You do look a lot better with your mouth open in amazement, let me tell you. 
She didn't care that her children had forgotten their brains somewhere between DeBartolo and the Library. She smiled as she rocked back and forth, and sideways. Like a mom when you bring her the burned toast on her birthday, a friend said, she was happy that we cared enough to be there, to talk to her, to make our love for her public. 
"The First Joyous Mystery is the Annunciation ... " The day she became His mother. "The Fifth Sorrowful Mystery is the Death of our Lord Jesus ..." The day she became our mother, when lie was hanging from that instrument of torture that is ours to bear and ours to worship. "The Fifth Glorious Mystery is the Crowning of Our Lady ..."The day she became our Queen. 
That was the first day of the Month of May, the Month of Mary. Some of us, some of you, students like you, who party and laugh and tease and do all the good things people your age are supposed to do, decided that the First of May was a good day to speak their love. And they found a life-size statue of a 15 year old, pn~gnant virgin, took her on their shoul­ders, and prayed the full 15 mysteries of the Rosary. They were not ashamed, manly men and womanly women, of their love for a girl who said yes. 
This time they did not look for a quiet hour in a solitary chapel, as they usually do. She chose for them a gorgeous day. when everybody would be looking, and let them take her on a tour of the campus of her University. I think it was of them that someone said: "I have how to study for Bio or Econ or Philo, or how to meet payroll. Because it is then that we feel the need for God, when we feel vulnerable, powerless, and at the mercy of a professor who tnsts you on something you were not told you were supposed to know, and then gives a '13' as the highest grade in the class. 
Then we realize that "we are not as strong as we think we are," and that to live and breathe and pass Calculus we need the help of her who felt most help­
less, and through her, 
struck root among the of her Father, Son and 
'The strong-willed
glorious people, in the Spouse. The Litany portion of my God, His woman, who over found us between the heritage; and my abode famed Golden Dome 
the objections of her 
is in the full assembly of and the place where Saints." Son, made him make Someone calls all peo­
None of you joined in, the perfect party. The ples to Himself. Have 
but she could see you you noticed that Our 
sweet young lass of 48
wanted to. She could see Lady on the Dome is a you were fighting your who cried her eyes out perfect theological shame, your self-con­statement? She's up 
at the foot of the cross.'
sciousness, your what­will-they-think-of-me thoughts. What will they think of you? They'll think you are crazy, that you are a religious freak, certifiably mad. Isn't that great? Crazy for Christ. what a great thing to be! If madness is the way to happiness, go crazy! 
Then it was the time for the excuses. "I've got to study." I have said it befom, and I'll say it again: the most religious time of the year is not Easter, not Christmastime, not Lent. The most reli­gious time of the year is exam time. Just as a sailor facing a storm, or a quarter­back facing a thousand tons of raw meat coming at him, or a senior executive fac­ing a mob of demanding consumers, a student in times of tests is the most reli­gious of people. Why'! Not only because we turn to the Lady when things are going wrong. We turn to God and to Ilis mother when we haven't the faintest idea there, much higher 
than us human beings. 
But it is possible for us to get up there. To do it, you have to fol· low firm, inflexible, dogmatic, and absolute rules: the laws of physics. You can'tjust think happy thoughts, but there are thousands of ways to get up there. Take a helicopter or a ladder or a tram­poline, but keep in mind the intolerant laws of physics. Even if you do get up on the Dome, however, you will be way below the sun that gives you life. 
Our Lady in Heaven is much higher than us. She's spotless. To get up where she is. we have to follow firm, inflexible, dogmatic and absolute rules: th.e Law of God -and after our real life begins, undergo Purgatory. But there are thou­sands of ways to attain salvation. Live lit­tleness as a way to holiness; travel half the world to convert half a nation; write (almost) all there is to know about God; or listen to and forgive people's sins for 18 hours a day, every day, year after year. Or, if you wish, be a humble and obedient housewife of indomitable courage and endless forbearance. Live the Commandments of the One True God, and be holy. But even if you attain perfect holiness, even if, like the Lady, you are perfect, you are still a creature. So, just like the Lady on the Dome, you will be infinitely lower than her Creator. 
Ah, the Lady! That sweet young lass of 15 or so, who had decided that her body was not hers to give to another, but God's alone. 
The perfect beauty who bore humankind's greatest gill. The strong­willed woman who, over the objections of her Son, made I lim make a party perfect. The sweet young lass of 48 or so who cried her eyes out at the foot of the Cross. The reigning beauty of all Creation, with a heart bigger than our failings. 
She is the woman whose praises they sang, for whom they processed, and to whom they prayed. Somebody once asked a holy man why should we pray the Hosary. The holy man's answer was, "The Lady likes it when her children say nice things to her." I know my mom likes it when I say something nice to her. It is the surest way to get something out of my dad. 
But on that warm Friday afternoon I discovered another reason. We should pray the H.osary in public so that smartest bunch of people in the world, the students of the great University of Notre Dame, may find something that is truly exciting and truly amazing. 
Gabriel Martinez is a graduate student in the department ofeconomics. //is col­umn appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• Quon:: OF THE Dtw 
'IfPresidents don't do it to their wives, they do it to the country.' 
-Mel Brooks 
• 000NESBUHY GARRY TRUDEAU 



VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday. September I, 1998 OBSERVER page II 

• LEITER TO THE EDITOR 
Apathy at Notre Dame needs to end 
We spend more time grappling about the lac~ of soda! spaen, analyzing the architectural plannmg bnhind South Dining Hall, mourning the death of a South Bend bar than we spend empowering our­selves as studf:lnts to address issues or human con­cern. We tako pride in our commitment to comn~u­nity service, our strength as a spiritual coi:?mun~ty, yet we fail to take advantage of our collective vmce by advocating justice. We elose our eyt~S to the out­side world and self-absorb in this sick little micro­cosm of' self-promotion and superficiality that we eall Nott·n Damn. 
Notre Dame is in dire need of a political make­over. Civil Disobedience, are you kidding'! Isn't that crowd surfing at the football games even though wo arn warnod against it. College Democrats who are really Hepublicans. College Hepublicans.who arB really fascists. Diversity? You mean havmg the option or nnx 14 or the traditional 21 meal plan. Protests? Oh, like gee, Michigan sucks. 
Last night, as I humbly stood upon the stoop of North Dining Hall passing out leaflets in tho hopes of finding at least a hint of politieal empathy. I was nmbraeed by pure apathy and igno~an~e. Perhaps, sweatshops arA not the most engagmg tssue at Notre Dame. But when the most common response to my effort to garm•r a glimmer of social aware­IHlSS of a simple human rights issue was "Oh, sweatshops, yeah, well Guess jeans are too crotehy anyway," I became slightly disheartened. 
I am not pleading f'or your supp(~rt, your eo!npas­sion. ot· pity, only urging you to ratse your v01ce. Contest my effort, but don't ign?r~ it. As a ~em.ber or this Notre Dame community tt ts your obhgatwn to uphold a lnvel of soda! ~onscious.noss as you intoraet with this communtty and wtth the global community. As an educated Ameriean. you must implement tlw tools you have aequired to bet~e: our sodety. I am not asking you to push a pohtiCal agenda, join PETA, or support my cause. However, 1do implore you to be aware. Whether Guess Jeans am rrotehy or not, take three seconds to n~ad a 11inr and understand the issues facing our world. 
We are students. Why are we not then activists? Boycott. Rally. Sit-in. Speak-out. Organize. Protest. Collectively we have the power to change our cam­pus, our country, our world. Yet why do we find ourselves so eontent swooning over J. Crew cnta­logues and visiting the tanning salons while we . brag about our University's commitment to service. Perhaps it is self-service. 
We have disciplined our minds. Now we must search compassionately to find the words of our hearts. 
Julie Hodek Sophotnore, Farley Hall September 1, 1998 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Intellectual pursuits need not stand in the way of faith 
1shuddnnnl as I rnad Sean Vinek's "Catholics need to hold on to the corn of tlw faith." Mr. Vinck is upset by tlw modnrn Chureh's easualnes~ and suggests we . eountnr its wayward casualnnss wtth a sti'Ong dose ol "in tnlllletual dodlity." 
As a nnwcomer to ND, I'm floored that anyone at this linn Univnrsity could possibly encourage "intel­lnrtual docility." . . 
Doesn't that din~etly oppose everythtng about a um­vorsity ndw:alion'! If thn eorn of Cathi_Jiicism fo; Mr. Vinck involves such intellnctual sheeptshness, I m afraid I subscribe to a very diiTflrent religion. 
• GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 


Alcohol Abuse at George Washington U. 
WASIIINGTON, D.C. 
The University planned to hold a Welcome Wenk event Friday at the Zei Club -a downtown dance club that draws a signili­eant GW crowd most weekends. GW adver­tised shuttle service from campus to the club, which would have admitted all GW stu­dents ages 18 and older for free and served alcohol to those over 21. 
But something happened on the way to the Zei Club. 
Latn last week, GW administrators sent word that bncause several freshmen were sent to the hospital in their first days at GW to be treated for excessive alcohol use, it would be inappropriate for the University to sponsor a "club night." Welcome Week plan­ners put together a night at X and 0 coffee­house in Dupont Circle instead, and because GW bought out the cafe for the evening, aleohol was not served. 
By canceling "club night~" the Univ~r.sity protected itself from the kmd of pubhctty generated at several other colleges l~st year when a mix of alcohol, students and Irre­sponsible drinking ended in death and seri­ous injury. 
GW made the right decision when it pulled its sponsorship of Friday's Zei Clu? e~ent. After several freshmen were hospttaltzed for excessive drinking in the first three days of school, it would have been unwise for the University to put its name on an event at which freshmen and alcohol could have mixed. 
But students will drink themselves into a dangerous stupor even if the University does not sponsor alcohol-related events. Last week, frnshmen were reql,lired to attend a meeting on alcohol use, where administra· tors spoke about the dangers ol: binge ?rink­ing. Events like that are a step Ill the nght direetion. 
It is ridiculous to think GW students will not totich a drop of alcohol until they are 21. Alcohol is part of the eollege experience. But when it is handled irresponsibly, problems arise -assault, rape, hospitalization, encounters with law enforcement officers. 
Students often boast about the amount of alcohol they had the night before, or the wild time they had stumbling through the city on their way home. But few st~dents mention what it is like to wake up m a hos­pital with a tube down their throat. having their stomachs pumped. 
If GW is serious about changing students' attitudes toward reckless drinking, those are the types of lessons it must teach. Ca~celi~g an event at a club will protect the Umverstty legally, but administrators must now look for ways to teach students to drink responsi­bly. 
This ran as a staff editorial in the Aug. 31 edition of The Hatchet at George Washington University. It has been reprinted here cour­tesy of the lf·Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 
It's not just football anymore: Stadium advertising infiltrates gameday spirit 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Adidas, Coca-Cola and Fairbury hot dogs. 
Amigos, Valentinos and other cafes. 
Turkeys ride trophies on big screens called Huskervision. Unfinished skyboxes loom over the day. During the past few years. we haven't known 
whether we bought tickets to the football game or to its commercials. 
But we have known the NU Athletic Department is as much a national marketing powerhouse as it is a sports powerhouse. 
It's annoying at times, especially last fall when some fans cheered louder for the llot Dog Fan of the Game than a well-earned touchdown. 
Yet this solid marketing offense foots the bill for under-appreciated sports programs that can't sell high-end tickets like football does. 
It keeps extra eash floating around for the succe~s­ful start to teams like women's soceer-teams were not willing to see fall because we're unwilling to Sllll the rights to our stomachs during a four-hour stint on the weekends. 
But we miss the days before logos on jerseys. We miss the days where you saw the game up close 1_mly if you had a seat on the 50-yard line. (We also mt?s the days when students could sit on thn 50-yard lme, but that's another column.) 
Nationwide, commercialism at college sporting events bas skyrocketed to the point where we can hardly pretend they are college games anymore.. . 
On each gameday, we watch a pro-football trammg match wrapped in a bright and shining pack age, ready for mass consumption on a national level. 
We -a captive audience -watch a battle between corporate advertisers. We watch a monster 1-beam frame, soon to hold pricey skyboxes sold to corporate interests, go up at a near-mystical pace. 
The word of the gameday is "corporate." 
This high-dollar game isn't for tho workaday-Joe fans anymore -the type who attend football games the day their baby is due and who ask to wear a Huskers T-shirt at their child's wedding. 
And it's not for the elderly rain-or-snow-for-50­years fans, either. Saturday, we watched some eld_er­ly West Stadium fans struggle up steps to the stadwm because of construction there. 
Instead, it's played for the corporate dollars that finance the cushy level of pro-football training still ruled by tedious NCAA regulations. . . 
If the college tradition is importa_nt to t~e mtegn~y of football, then the sponsorship of collegtate sportmg events needs to be balanced with the intent of the game. That used to be sports~anship _and honor, and the inscriptions on our Memonal Stadtum prove that fact. 
Now the purpose of each ga~e see~s to be t<! build a larger pseudo-corporation ol a.thlettc ma~ketm.g. 
If the Athletic Department can t check thts destre for unlimited corporateties -a desire that soils the spirit of the game-another state entity should. 
This ran as a staff editorial in the Aug. 31 edition ofThe Daily Nebraskan at the University of Nebraska. It has been reprinted here courtesy ofthe U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


What's on your mind? E-mail us at 
Observer. Viewpoint. I @nd. edu. 
Tom Butler September !, 1998 
11 
pagel2----------------------------------------------
OTHE 
BSERVER -------------------------Wednesday, September 2, 1998 



ARTIST AN 
• 
For University ofWisconsin Ph.D. prosp 
'THE ABsTRACT FAcEs SERIEs' 
hunterism --postmodern art characterized by the use of a single line or shape to simul­taneously define the contours of more than one person and/or object; certain ele­ments in this style of art are abstract, figurative or both depending on the viewer's perspective. 
Above: "Family in the Moonlight" oil on canvas (30 x 40 inches) 
Left: "Sleepwalking Through Life" oil on canvas (40 x 30 inches) 
Below: "Deep Dark Secrets" oil on canvas (24 x 20 inches) 
• 


-----.-~--~~------~~---~----­
.
e 

Wednesday, September 2, 1998 ------------------
OTHE page 13
BSERVER 

GENTICIST: 
t Hunter O'Reilly, it's all in aday's work 

• 
Young artist to display work at Mishawaka bookst 
.-... 
By SARAH DYLAG us!l of a singlll linn or bord!lr and artistic processes are she does get very involved in Scone Editor to define more than one more closely related than the projects she works on. object in tho painting. most people might believe. "I probably don't get 
llunter O'Heilly graduated "Certain elements of this Science requires a scientist enough sleep as I should," cum laudn from the stylll of art are abstract, figu­to discover order in nature she joked. "But I just get so University of California at rative. or bo.th. dependi~g o~ instead of trying to impose it, into the art and have such a 
allow more time for my art."
Bnrkeley, holds a Masters of the vrewer s perspeetrve, according to O'Reilly. ller art passion for it. Once I get into Getting involved with someScience degrnP from the said O'Hnilly. it, I keep doing 
sort of public education about
University ol' Wisconsin at Tho young 
it for hours." 
genetics might allow her not
Madison and is eurn~ntly a artist's "Abstract Her newfound 
only to dispel common mis­
Ph.ll. candidatl~ in g11rwlics at Faces Snries," her passion for art 
conceptions about genetics,
tlw Univt~rsity of Wisconsin, i<u·gest series so has posed ques­
but to incorporate her artistic
Madison. far. clearly tions about skills in her study.
In addition to tlwsn acade­demonstratns this where she will "I've thought about doing a
mk SUCCI~SSI~S s)!f' is also an snll'-proelaimed dedicate her 
book of genetics for the lay­artist. whosP work will bn artistic stylr.. efforts in the men," she said. "Maybn Idisplayed in thP South Bend "It's abstract future. 
could make it artistic as
arPa !'or tlw nnxt month. The and colorful. but it "I am getting well."
BarnPs and NobiP Cafe in is l'igurative too," my Ph.D. 
No matter where she ends
Mishawaka, Indiana. will dis­O'Bnilly said. because I've put up. O'Heilly insists that slw
play six paintings from "Shapes make up so much time 
will always continuP painting.
O'Hnilly's "Abstract Faens both cellular and energy into 
''I've just devcdopnd sueh a
Series" from St>ptmnlwr 1-30. forms and bodies. it," she empha­
passion for it."
O'Hnilly has rwver formally You ean see things sized. "But I 
O'Heilly is currentlystudiPd art. hut became in it even though want to keep involved with a group of 
inspin~d to paint al'lnr a trip it is abstract." doing the art. In 
international artists called 
to Paris two years ago. Since O'Hnilly eitns the long run, Henaissanee 2001. More than
hPr trip, slw has filled six I' i !'. a s s o , I'm unsure 
300 different artists from 30
sketchbooks and displayed Kand insky and about what I'll 
different countries belong tolwr paintings in both group Miro as her main pursue. 
the group, which formed over
and solo shows. inf'lunnees and, Pursuing genet­
the Internet.
")In Paris) I got. to see the although shn has ics is definitely 
Membership into thisoriginal paintings that you nnvnr taken class­not a 9-5 job so group, which is free~. has 
norm a II y j us t see n~ pro­es on these artists, it might be diffi­allowed O'Heilly to begin dis­
duc11d." shP nxplaincd. "I she has read and cult to do both." 
playing her artwork not onlyalways did drawing, but Paris studil~d about She has, how­throughout the United States,inspin~d nw and I thought oil thnm on her own. ever, considered 
but also in other countries.
painting would h11 a good Shn also main­options that Beginning Sept. 8, other
nwdium for my idPas." tains that her might offer 
paintings from her "Abstract
Befort> hPr Pxpnritmct~s in work in seitlnc.e more time for 
Faces Series" will be on dis­
Paris. O'HPilly's artistic nxpe­has directly aiTect-her painting 
play at the Broadway Gallery
riPrH~n had been limitl~d to a 
and the Abraham Lubelski
l'nw sketches and doodles. 
Gallery in New York City, and"I always likml to draw and 
this past July she participat­
I always found myself doo­'AS AN ARTIST, EVERYTHING INFLUENCF5 YOUR ART, BUT FOR ME, A LOT OF THE THINGS 
ed in a group show in ;· 
dling," slw said. "But in tho 
AND SHAPF5 I SEE IN THE LAB UNDER A MICROSCOPE ARE REFLECTED IN MY ART.' Harrogate, England.
past couple of years I have 
"I think it's really cool and
donn it mon~ seriously. Now, I'd encourage young artists to
wlwn I look back at things ­
HUNTER O'REILLY look at their website," sheI did a covPr for a literary 
said. "It's a unique way to get
journ a I w lw n I was at t h n 
your artwork out there. ThisUniversity ol' Calil'ornia. nd her art. functions in a similar way, and that would allow her to is more than people putting
BPrhley .:.._ I n~alize that I "As an artist. everything forcing the viewer to find combine her interests in art art up on the Internet. It's
did somP ol' tlw sanw things inl'lunnces your art, but for order among the different and science. Teaching genet­
artists talking to each othertlwrn that I do in my paint­mn, a lot of thP things and shapes and forms. ics, for example, might pro­and influencing each other
ings now." shapes I sne in the lab under Despite the similarities she vide more flexibility in her from all over the world."
Today, along wilh her work a microscope are rnllected in sees between science and art, schedule. 
O'Heilly's artwork can also in till' Mci\rdl1~ Laboratory for my art." she said. "I see dif­O'Heilly admits that balanc­"I like teaching a lot and 
be seen on her own award­Cancer Hesnarch. O'Heilly l'l~rent patterns and shapes ing both her research and I've done it before, working 
winning website at
crPatPs oil paintings in a style and I l'ind thom interesting." her painting can sometimes as a TA or tutor," she 
http:!/members. spree. comllzu
slw describes as "huntt~rism," O'Hnilly said that she pose a challenge. Although explained. "Teaching might 
n ter/lz unter. h tnzl. 
which is charat~tl'rized by tlw hnlinvns that the scientific she does not paint everyday. be some direction that would 
About the artist: 
Education: Ph.D. wndidtlte tlt University of Wisconsin, Madision; M.S. in genetics from U ofW, 
Madison; B.S. from University of California, Berkeley 
Art Experience (Exhibitions): Studio Z (Madison, Wis.), CWWCA 11th Atmiversary (M,Jdison, Wis.), The Country Without Borders Renaissance 2001 Group Exhibition (New York, N.Y.), Post-Postcard III (San fr,mcisco, Calif.), Renaisstmce 2001 GrMIP ExhibitiotJ (Harrogate, England), Binary Code Re1wissance 2001 Group Exhibition (New York, N.Y.), CWWCA 10th Anniversary Exhibition (Madison, Wis.) 
Journal Covers: "The Embro]ournal" (August 3, 1998) and "The Dialogue: A Literary Jounw1" (Spring 1991) 

IF YOU GO! WHo: HuNTER O'REILLY 
WHAT! "THE ABSTRACT FAcEs SERIEs" 
WHERE! BARNES AND NoBLE CAFE, MisHAWAKA 
.­
WHEN! SEPTEMBER 1•30, 1998 
FoR MORE INFORMATION: CALL HuNTER O'REILLY AT: (6oS) .236-9533, E-MAIL AT: HuNTER@oNcoLO­GY,WISC.EDU, OR CHECK OUT HER WEBSITE AT: HTTP:/ /MEM• .8ER.S,SPREE.COM/HUNTER/HUNTER.HTML 
----~· 
~-------------.~-­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 2, 1998 
• NFl 

Mirer signs with Packers after release by Bears 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Quarterback Rick Mirnr agreed to contract terms with the Green Bay Packers on Tuesday evening and was due to join the team at practice Wednesday. 
The Packers said Mirer would be a backup to starter Brett Favre. The other backup is Doug Pederson. Mirer, the second overall pick out of Notre Dame in the 1993 draft. was released Sunday by the Chicago Bears. 
lie had signed a $10 million. three-year contract with Chicago in FPbruary 1997 but couldn't hold the starting job and wouldn't agree on a pay cut to stay with the Bears. 
The 6-foot-3. 215-pound Mirer starred with Seattle as a rook­iP before his career began a nosedive. By 1996. he was the league's lowest-rated passer. Then came the trade to the Bears. 
With Chicago last season, he started three games and played in four others. passing for 420 yards and running for 78 yards and a touchdown. 
ThP Packers also said center Mike Flanagan would be return­
ing because his trade to the Carolina Panthers was canceled Tuesday after he failed a team physical. 
Flanagan, 24. has had six operations since breaking his right leg in two places in his first exhibition game as a rookie in 1996. He was traded Monday to Carolina for a draft choice. 
The 6-foot-5. 290-pound Flanagan was Grren Bay's third­round draft pick out of UCLA in 1996. Flanagan spent the 1996 season on injured reserve and the 1997 season on the physical­ly unable to perform list. Flanagan played in all five of the PackPrs' exhibition games in 1998. 
...:s---. 

The Observer accepts classitleds every business day !rom 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oftlce, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexr-day clas­
Classifieds sitleds is 3p.m. All classitleds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
..... 
NOTICES 
GO IRISH!!! 
SPEND ALL THAT SUMMER CASH ALREADY?? South Dining Hall Food Market has employment opportunities. 
We offer competitive wages, pay increases for returning students. flexible schedules and work incentives. 
Stop by South Dining Hall or call1-6147 for more information. 

WANTED 
NO profs seek mature. loving babysitter for great 15 month old girl. Flexible hrs, great pay. 234-2241,631-7762,631-7138. 
Volunteer in Africa or Mexico.One year placements in various sectors:human rights,community development,youth,jour­nalism,microenterprise,health,refugee relief,more.lnternships in our Washington,DC office. Visions in Action.(202)625-7403. Visions@igc.org Web·.www.visionsinaction.org. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books,building with blocks,and singing songs with children,please call Cindy Hestad at 284­4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND).Piease join our fun filled days. 
HTML EXPERT WANTED Fast-paced Internet design and manage­ment team needs a person skilled in HTML.Candidates must have an advanced knowledge of HTML 3.2,including (but not limited to) tables.form design,server-side includes, style sheets and browser-specific differences in HTML implementation.Strong preference will be given to candidates who are not dependent on HTML generation tools and are able to produce complex HTML by hand.Skills in interface design,image design and com-pression for Web use. and JavaScript are valuable.Salary plus benefits. Contact Coy Jankowski at JGSulliven,219.234.2211 ,or submit a resume to Resumes@ JGSullivan .com 
The Office for Students with Disabilities is 
looking fqr male students interested in the 
following positions: 
STUDENT ASSISTANT:This person will help a Notre Dame student with a physical disability travel to events on campus. Evening hours,approximately 8-10 hours a week.$8.00 per hour. 
STUDENT AIDE:This aide will assist a Notre Dame student with a physical disabili­ty with dressing and moderate personal care. Morning and evening hours approxi­mately 8-10 hours a week.$10.00 per hour. 
Training will be provided.Piease call the Office for Students with Disabilities at 631­7157. 

FOR RENT 
1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272-6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road,Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY fine home within 10 miles of ND/SMC 219-291-7153 
Furnished room,air,kitchen,laundry fac.,3 min. N. of campus.272-0615 
Close to campus. Clean, 2 bdrm. Stove,refrigerator,security system. $450/month.$300 deposit.1 yr lease.801 Corby.Pager 679-8748.Piease leave#. 
Bed and Breakfast for Notre Dame games and events. Private home 2 miles form cam­pus. Private baths. 272-9471 
OFF CAMPUS RENTALS AVAILABLE FALL 1999 
Property 1 ....... .4-5 STUDENTS Property 2 ........ 6-8 STUDENTS (large common area) 
Clean,washers/dryers,appliances,security systems, plenty of parking, nice condition. Call Dave or Carolyn 291-2209 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
FLYNN ND/SMC B&B 
Private home, 10 mins from campus. 3 lovely rooms, one bath.Perfect for families or couples traveling together. Available foot­ball,grad. parents' wkends. $75-95/nt. Call Alice (219)282-2241. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL WEEKENDS, NEAR CAMPUS. 219-277-6832. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAMPUS. 219-277-6832. 
Furnished room. Very close to campus. Water incl. $200/month. Sept. paid. Must rent imm. 273-9795. Call Ron or Matt for appt. 

FOR SALE 
198 MINUTE PHONE CARDS-$20. CALL 243-0658. 
'94 Geo Prizm 4dr 5spd stereo 60k mi clean sharp & faithful $7200 237-0608 
'88 VW Jetta, black, 4-door, sunroof, cassette, 5-speed, 120K, $2,000. Call287-5084 
Macintosh Powerbook (laptop)-42 Meg RAM, 2 gig hard drive-two months old $1,750-OBO 234-6747 before 9:30p.m. 
94 VW Golf, runs great,4dr,auto,AIC, $7250obo. Frank@ 631-3250day/287­5259nite 

TICKETS 
NEED MICHIGAN TIX 289-7136 
I NEED MICH. TIX! will trade 2 Navy GA's Please call Gina x1825 
Need 2 MICH GA's Erin 634-1006 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272­6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
NO Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 
NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
NO Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
FOR SALE. 2 Michigan GA's.Best Offer. 634-3193. Ask for Kim 
WANTED: 1 Student Ticket for Notre Dame vs. Michigan. Call Michael at 4-3236. 
Need 4 tickets for ND/U-M game. Call 248­647-6657 anytime. 
2 Michigan GAs for sale Call Tom @271-2845 
Need 7 Ml Tix!! Call Michele@ x1553 
NO FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Need 2 Michigan GA's. Will pay top dollar. Call Matt x1-4378 
2 PURDUE GA'S 4 SALE. 908-537-4008. 
NO-MICHIGAN TIX 1 00 Level (2) Call 312-946-3723 Best offer Leave Message 
2 MICH GAs x1652 
NEED MICH TICKETS Looking to trade or buy Have LSU,Army,Stanford, and MSU call Andy @251-0001 
FOR SALE 1 Michigan GA. Best offer. 634­4106, Kristen. Leave Message. 
Alums Need Michigan Tix 773-529-8421 
MICHIGAN! 2 GAs 4 Sale! 248-1626 leave offer 
Always buying and selling NO football tick­ets.289-8048 

PERSONALS 
For your FREE W.W.J.D. bracelet, call631­6385. 
Relive the memories!! Classic Irish Games from 1970s and 80s on VHS Video. Complete network broadcasts, most of excellent quality. Call Tom 410-309-0395; Email:danyluk@erols.com 
VITO's Barbershop. Closed All Day Sun and Wed.Open Daily 8­4,Sat 8-3. 233-4767 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.Early bird savings until Oct. 31 st.America's best prices and packages. Campus sales reps wanted. Earn free trips+ cash. 1.800.SURFS.UP www .studentexpress.com 
SABOR LATINO 
CD release party! 
Thursday 9/3, 10:30 pm Club Landing (dance lessons at 8:30) 
SABOR LATINO 
If at first you do not succeed, then lower your standards so it is easier to. 
This classified is for all of you whO read Kevin's ad-you know who you are. 
That's one saucy guitar. Does it still play? 
Hey Sarah Julie. They have no frappuccino. i feel so used! 
The Walls of Jericho are falling. I say, Let 'em fall. Anyone got a trumpet? It could be ham sandwich time agam on 
Thursday night. Evacuation com pl.. campi.. com pl. .. 
evac.. evacuation comp .... Evacuation complete. I'm early in a way you'll never understand. -What's your least favorite emotion? 
-Itchy. hi marie, i'll be home soon. i just want to go home bill hart is ... too much man to be a copy editor thepresident of the yanni fan club secretary of the john tesh fan club, but next 
in line for a promotion an original roman foot soldier a shuttle bus driver mentos? tired, tired. tired, tired, tired Carolyn-I hope you recover from your bike 
rides OK, for ANYONE who wanted to know about the mysterious "N" in the paper: no,it's not some new convention of gram­mar (as a few English majors suggested). Really, it's a computer malfunction. The lay­out program can't always read long dashes, 
so it subs in "N" characters. And at 4:30 a.m., it's pretty hard to catch them all. So that's the big mystery. It's a phenome­
non known only within: The Observer Twilight Zone. 
Bianco--I'll give you Shannon's job if the girl's a PLS major. 
Is that OK, Shan? 
No frappuccino. You don't understand how this hurts. It hurts ina way you'll never understand. 
That means YOU, Bianco. 
Where's Mark DeBoy? He's the cutest thing production's ever produced. 
That's why Shannon does it 
We just don't understand the N 
How many roads must a man walk clown, before you can call him a man? 
Well, I would walk 500 miles, and I would walk 500 more, just to be the man that walked a thousand miles to fall down at your door ... 
Wc:Jnesday, September 2, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page IS 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Fox coverage set to McGwire breaks NL HR record 
Associated Press
follow the (HR) leader 
MIAMI 
With two mighty eracks, Big Alisoci;HL'd Press million). 
Mae passed llack. Mark "Wn are obviously disappoint­
Me:Gwirn homered twicn, rais­NHW YOHK ed with baseball's decision," 
ing his s1mson total to S7 and 
Fox Sports and its cable net­ESPN spokesman Mike Soltys 
breaking llack Wilson's 68­
works may wind up tlw biggnst said. 
year-old NL record with an 
winners in llw dispute between Basnball's dispute~ with ESPN 
electrifying pPrformance that 
major le~ague~ basnhall and over tlw placement of Sunday 
lnd tim St. Louis Cardinals over J·:SI'N. night games in Seplnmbnr may 
the Florida Marlins 7-1 
llasl'lmll and io'l1x announc:ml have playnd a role in the deci­
Tue~sday night.
Tuesday the rwtwork will tnle­sion to put the gamn on FX. 
MeGwire homered against
visn all ol' Mark Mr.Cwire's 1\SJ>N tried to move~ the last 
Livan llnrnandez leading ol'l' 
games I'rom SPJlL I I -13 if' lw three Sunday night gamns of' the 
the sewenth inning, sending a 
reaclws flO honw runs. FX and snason to ESJ>N2 to accommo­
1-1 pite:h an estimated 450 feet 
llw Fox Sports Nnt cabin rwt­date~ its nnw $4.8 billion dnal 
over tlw cnnter-field wall. 
work will broadr.ast two games with thn NFL. 
Two innings later, McGwire 
involving MeCwirn and Sammy Baseball balked at the move 
hit thn first pitch !'rom Donn 
Sosa ru•xt we)e)k. and gave the games back to the 
Pall to almost the same spot.
I·:SPN will televise next teams to sell locally. Both sides 
This time the estimated dis­Monday's opnner of the two­havn threatened to sun for 
tance was 472 feet. 
gamn Cubs at Cardinals sc-~rins breach ol' contract. 
It was McGwire's seventh 
rwxt Monday, and FX will show But baseball oflicials say they 
multihomer game this sea.son 
the Cardinals-Cubs game the madn th11 decision solely 
and the SOth of his career,
following day. Fox Sports Net bncause they moved the Sept. 
leaving him !'our short of Hoger
will broadcast split national cov­12 Cardinals-Astros games from 
Maris' record with 24 games 
nrage~ of thn Cardinals-Heds and FX to Fox and owe~d FX an acldi­
left. lie began the night tied 
l'irale~s-Cuhs gamns on Sept. 10. tional game. 
with Sammy Sosa at 55 homers 
Fox will tnlevise the "Then~ is always a eoneern 
in thei·r race to break Maris' 
C:ardinals-Astros game on Sept. about thn number of homes, but 
37-ycar-old record. 
12 as part of its Saturday pack­givnn the contraetual obliga­
No. 56 landed on a tarp
a).(!), and will show tlw St. Louis tions, we considered this thP 
beyond the wall, and several 
ganws on Snpt. II and Sept. 13 right thing to do," baseball 
boys scrambled for th11 sou­
il' Md;wirl' has(,() homo runs. spokesman Hieh Levin said. 
venir as the crowd of 37,014
Fox exeH·utive producPr Ed ESPN has agreed with baseball 
gave MeGwire a standing ova­
c;on~n is still talking with base­to show live cut-ins to any of 
tion. lie touched the plate with 
ball about showing Sosa''s Sosa's or McGwirn's at-bats 
a big grin and play!'ully 
ganws on SPpt. I I and Se~pt. 12 onen they tie the NI. rncord of 
punched leamrnatn Hon Gant 
iI' ill' has (,() homers. S6 homers. ESJ>N has the rights 
in tho stomach before return­"My lwad is about to nxplodn to cut-ins at any limn nxcepl 
ing to the dugout. 
as I ihink about all tlw sePnar­during a window for Fox or FX. 
Wlwn tho cheers continued. 
ios." (;orPn said. "W" will pull 
Tlw horne run chasP has MeGwirn rosponded with a RBis that season. still thn plato leading ofT the fifth. the 
t hi' t riggPr wlwn tlwy g«'t to flO. lwlpl'd drivn up basnball ratings 
curtain eall bnfore the next major league record. McGwire scoreboard brielly display11d an 
llut if' orlf' of' tlwm hits fivn honw 
this sl'ason. Sunday night's batter stepped to the plato. has driven in 121 runs. erroneous messagn saying Sosa runs in tiH• ni'Xt !'our days, Bravos-Cardinals game got a 5.0 With orw out and nono on in Before his latest homers. had hit his 5(,th horner. <'VI'rything is out tlw window." rating, tho highnst l\Vnr in 
tlw ninth. more than a down MeGwire was batting just .222 McGwire then grounded out to I·:SI'N \Viii liknly show tlw ESJ>N's night ynars of showing youngstnrs gathorod on tho this season against tho second. Card in a Is ga nw n n x t ganws on Sunday nights. The tarp in anticipation of a homer Marlins, who have the worst Malt Morris (5-4) allowed V\'l'dru~sday and had oiTnrml to prnvious high was a 4.5 for a 
-and that's where Md;wirn hit pitching staff in the league~. one run in seven innings. Gant lt•IPvisP TuPsday's garnl' at (;ianls-Dodg!)rS ganw on s~~pt. 
it. There was another l'rnnzied But McGwirn hit a 545-foot­hit his 22nd home~r and Hay
Busrh Stadium. But hasPball 21), 1991. 
ovation and another curtain er. his longest of' the season, Lankford hit his 2Sth for thn 
ol'lidals opted to put llw ganw Fox averaged a 4.4 rating for call. against Hernandez in St. Louis Cardinals. St. Louis went on FX. dnspill' tlw !'art that is its f'ivn Saturday aftnrnoon 
Wilson's NL roeord of S6 on May 16. Tlw Marlins' right­ahead in the second on a two­availahll' in about hall' as many game~s in August, its highest 
honwrs was snt in I(no for the hamler has allowed :n homnrs out: two-run single by Delino lwnws as I·:SI'N (:17 million to 7:1 month o!' ratings over. 
Chicago Cubs. lie also had 190 this season-third-most in the DnShields. Placido Polanco's 





Garden Party at the Cove 
Featuring 
P.S. Dump Your 


Boyfriend 
Coveleski Regional Stadium Budweiser Picnic Garden 
Friday, September 4th Gates open at 7:00pm 
$5.00 Admission $3.00 with a valid College I.D. 

Food &Drink Specials 
For ticket information, call the Silver Hawks at 

1-800-550-HAWK 
NL. two-out HBI single made the 
McGwire l'lied out to center score 3-0 in the third. and in the first, and the crowd Gant hornnred with the basns booed playfully when he sin­empty ,in the fifth. gled in the third. It was his llernandPz singled home tlw !>2nd single or the year. only run for the Marlins, who 
As MeGwire stepped to tho lost, their l'il'th game straight. 
•WNBA 

Comets blaze Phoenix for 2nd straight crown 
Associated Press Swoopns scored I I of her I(, points in the second half. IIOUSTON Mie he lie Griffiths led the Two-time WNBA MVI' Mercury with 24 points, whill' 
Cynthia Cooper scored 23 .Jennifer Gillorn had 20. points and Sheryl Swoopes led The Comnts nnvnr trailed in > a late second-hall' eiHtrge as the first hall' and withstood a the Houston Cornets beat thn mild Phoenix rally for a 32-2fl 
Phoenix Mercury 80-71 halftime load. Tuesday night to win their see­But thn Mercury knpt up thn ond league ehampionship. charge narly in thn second half 
Houston, which beat New when they tied the score twice York for the league's inaugural and took their only lead of the title last season, beat Phoenix game, 47-45, with 14:47 left in the best-ol'-3 series after on a basket by Gril'l1ths. dropping the opener on the Two frne throws and a :~­road. pointer by Kim l'nrot gavn tlw The Mercury led only once in Comets a 50-47 lnad and tlwy the final ganw, but they cut rHWI'r trailml again. Houston's lead to (,2-61 with Cooper scored 13 first-half 
7:40 to play. Swoopes made points, but she also pirknd up two fr1~e throws for a 64-61 thrne fouls, induding emn with lead and them she really put on 24 seconds lnft in the hall' that a late show. gavn Griffiths a tlHnn-poinl 
0 v e r a :1 2 -seeo n d s p a n , play. Swoopes fnd .!aneth Areain for The Comets took a 25-15 a layup then blocked a shot lead with (,:2(, Inn in tlw half. 
that led to he~r own basknt at aided by I 0 first-half the otlwr end. The lead (J8-h I t u r n o v e~ r s by t hI' Me r c ury . and the Mercury nevnr got Phcwnix outscori'CI the Conwts 
eloser than four points the rest 11-7 tlw rnst of the half as of' the way. Griffiths had five of hnr ninn Tina Thompson had 16 first-half points during that points for llouston and spurt. · 

r= 
f 
I 
I 
I ~ 
I I 
------------....------~-~ --­
Week in review from an obscured view 
Looking at the week in Chicago Cubs, is having a sports from an obscured view breakout season as his team in the cheap seats: fights for the National League 
• Mark McGwire has 57 wild card playoff spot. home runs and Sammy Sosa Makes you wonder why the has 55. as baseball watches Rangers traded him to the on in anticipation of the White Sox for Harold Baines downfall of Roger Maris' sin-and the White Sox traded gle-season home run record. him a few months later to the 
So what's -----------Cubs for Jorge 
w r o n g ? John Coppolella "Taco" Bell. McGwire uses SporrsColumnist If you're a androstene------------Red Sox fan. 
page 16 
• CHEAP SEATS 
dione la substance banned by the NFL. NCAA. and the Olympics). is the MVP of a team that rivals only the Seattle Mariners in terms of underachievement. and has become nothing more than a one-man circus. 
Sosa had long been recog­nized as the most selfish player in baseball, preferring a home run to a victory. and had never hit more than 40 home runs prior to this sea­son. 
Nevertheless, McGwire is the heart and soul of the rejuvenation of baseball. According to an article in this week's Sports Illustrated, McGwire and his home run chase have accounted for an estimated $25 million in excess revenue based on fan game attendance. 
Furthermore, in an age where the media itself even recognizes how out of control they are, McGwire has main­tained his composure throughout an ordeal that caused Maris to pull his hair out in clumps. Mention of Maris breaking Babe Ruth's record began in July of the year he broke the record; mention of McGwire breaking the record began the Novemberbefore the season began. 
McGwire is the sentimental favorite, too. lie hit 49 home runs his rookie year and skipped the last game (and a chance to become the first rookie ever to hit 50 homers) to watch the birth of his son. lie has hit 50 home runs the past two years. won a World Series, begun a child a~use prevention program, installed his son as the Cardinals' unofficial batboy, walked on water and ascended to heav­en. The only thing left for him to do is break Maris' record. 
The only person who could stop McGwire from breaking the record is Sosa. Sosa, the affable right fielder for every­one's favorite team, the further proof of the "Curse of the Bambino" is the fact that Sosa signed a three-year $15 million deal with the Red Sox during the winter of the strike-shortened season. The deal was later nullified, as were all deals made during the strike. and Sosa resigned with the Cubs. 
If there is any justice, Sosa or the Astros' Moises Alou will win the NL MVP award. Alou is an unsung hero about 15 home runs behind Sosa, and who has been the back­bone or an Astros team that was one of the best in the NL before acquiring Han-dy Johnson. 
McGwire and Sosa arc putting life back into base­ball, something the NBA needs desperately. 
• 
What caused Michael Jordan to quit baseball? While you might think it was lack of talent or longing to get back to the game of bas­ketball, it actually was the strike that ended the baseball season. 

Let's hope that basketball isn't foolish enough to drag this strike ·out and lose Jordan forever. 

• 
Notre Dame-Michigan football is a good game regardless of the score. This year it appears as it will be one of the best as the spread is under a touchdown. 

• 
A final note: The 2nd Annual ND Power Play takes place this Sunday at Notre Dame Stadium at 11:30 p.m. This event, whose funds help the fight against cancer, is a great opportunity to give back to the community and get some exercise. If this event runs half as smoothly as it did last year, you will kick yourself if you miss it. 


John Coppolella is a junior majoring in business man­agement from Laguna !lilts, California. His column appears every Wedensday in the sports section. 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 2, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 


Sosa's sights on Cubs not HRs 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Everywhere he goes, Sammy Sosa finds a crowd. By the batting cage, where his every swing is photographed. By his locker, where his every word is recorded. 
In right field, where adoring fans scrutinize his every move. lie is neither short tempered not stressed out in the midst of a historic home run race as lw nears one of baseball's most magical records. Hather he is dealing with it in much the same manner he has handled pitch­ing this season. With ease. 
Even his teammates can't believe what he's doing. 
"I have no words for Sammy. lie's taken them all away," first baseman Mark Grace said. 
"It's just a blast," rookie pitcher Kerry Wood said. "Being in a pennant race is No. I and you got a guy like Sammy Sosa on your team and he puts on a show every day." 
Sosa hit his 55th homer Monday night, tying Mark McGwire for the major league lead and leaving him one shy of Hack Wilson's elub and National Lf~ague records and six away from Hoger Maris' elusive 61. McGwire then hit Nos. 56 and 57 on Tuesday night at Florida. 
All this, yet Sosa irisists his biggest project is getting the Cubs to the playoffs. "Maybe after the year is over and we go to 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Tennis -Tryouts will be held on Sept. 9 for all interested players. Call Liz Barker at 1-3730 for J.llOre information. 
Sports Officials -RecSports is looking for flag football, fastpitch softball, baseball and soccer officials for the fall interhall season. Good pay and flexible hours. Call DeMond Thomas or Jeff Walker at 1-3536 or 1-4437 for more informa­tion. 
Men's Tennis Tryout Tournament-Sign-up at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. There will be a meeting at 3:30p.m. on Sept. 10 at Eck. Please contact Mike Morgan at 1-4841 or 1·6929 with any questions. 
Cycling -Anyone interested in joining the cycling club should stop by the table at Activities Night or should contact Sean Flynn, 1-0919. 

a Athletic F 
the playoffs I can say to myself. 'Wow it's unbelievable.' But right now I don't have that," Sosa said. · 
Sosa had the lead l'or a few innings last rrionth at 48-47 before McGwire drove two balls out ol' Wrigley Finld in a lwad-to-IH~ad meeting to go back in front. 
It seems every lime Sosa draws into a lin with McGwire the Cardinals' slugger responds. Sosa realizes his presence is pushing his l'riend and rival. 
"I think one of the reasons Mark is going to go out there and do what he's supposed to lw doing is because I'm right there with hin1." Sosa said. "And like he says, lw 's a v1~ry r.om­petitive guy." 
Sosa's sense of humor has never bc1~11 bettPr. When Wood didn't want to lake a curtain 1:all after hitting a homer Monday night, Sosa, enjoying the stage, took it for him. 
Told that a national newspaper poll show1~d 79 percent of those interviewed wanted McGwire to break tlw record to just 16 percent for him, Sosa replied: 
"There's nothing wrong with that. That's why I love /\mPrica. It's a bnautil'ul country," he said with another laugh. 
And just how often does lw think about thn home run race? 
"In my mind, about 16 pnrennt of tlw time," he said doubling over at his locker. "It's 79 pcrc1mt for Marko" 
Shorin-Ryu Karate -Students are instructed according to traditional Okinawan techniques. Semester long course that meets in Hockne 219 Tuesdays and Thursdays 6-7:30 p.m. -~'here will be a demonstration on Tues., Sept. 8 at 6:30 
p.m. in Hockne 219. For more information, con­tact RecSports at 1-6100. 
Women's Safety & Self-Defense-This course exposes women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Class meets for ten sessions on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6:30-7:45 p.m. For more information con­tact RecSports at 1-6100. 
Modern Dance -This class will be tailored for a range of abilities. Semester long course that will mee Mondays and Thursdays 6:15-7:30 
p.m. For more information contaet RecSports at 1-6100. 



Wednesday, September 2, 1998 
M.Soccer 
continued from pa~ 24 
Bodlago drilled home the first goal of tlw game at 11 :3H of tho first. Taking a pass from eo-eaptain Phil Murphy that was almost intnrcnptnd by a Crusader ddnnder, Bocklagn got orw past Valpo co-captain 
Would you like to sponsor someone 
who is? 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz or Frank Santoni 
@ 
631-5242 Badin hall 
Find out more .......a.... 
o BAPTISM: for 
person~ ;-~·~.nti.~g. to become a mem·b~f dj'·the: Catholic 
Church. 



oFUU COMMrJrJiof4:1 
bapt~ed:pe~~91!.~ wanting Full 
and goalie /\aron Hhame from 20 yards out. Boeklage starts thn season with two goals and an assist in his !irst game. 
McKnight added his first of tlw season less than four min­utes later on a play that devel­oped oiT a .Johnson possession at midfield. !\ dish-off and line maneuvering by Hyan Cox brought the drive to the penal­ty box, wlH~rn freshman Shane 
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
The Observer· SPORTS 
Walton was able to pass to Mr,Knight for the goal. 
Walton, making his first start at Notre Dame, has had a productive preseason, scoring the Irish's only goal in the pre­season game against Ohio State. lie finished with two goals and two assists in the game. 
"He's a very opportunistic player, a good goal seorer who 

Earn $25.00 Today with this. and a student I.D. 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 10 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 



Need Cash?? 
helped out our offense a lot," explained Johnson on the freshman phenom. 
Walton scored his lirst colle­giate goal with 49 seconds in the half. with an assist coming from Cox. The play gave the Irish a 3-0 halftime lead. 
The second half got under­way with the Crusaders hoping that backup goalie Mike Sernel would solidify their defense. But the Irish brought much of the same as Cox scored just six minutes into the hall'. Bocklage lofted a pass to Walton in the goal box, whose quick feed to the left setup Cox. 
Looking to control the balls in the air up front to finish plays, the Irish also mastered using their heads in the mid­field to start attacks. Senior defender Dave Cutler nailed a header in the midlield to redi­rect the ball Notre Dame's way. MeKnight, who tallied a goal and an assist on the day, hit a breaking Bocklage who fired a shot that rieoeheted off the inside of the right post for the team's fifth. 
Notre Dame got its last goal 
Starting in last night's contest, sophomore Conor LaRose (right) played a part in the powerful defense that shutdown Valparaiso. 
THE INCREDIBLE BACK-TO-SCHOOL ART PRINT & POSTER SALE!!! 
Monday-Friday August 31-September 4 Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center 8:30-5:30 pm 
page 17 
of the night with 24:47 left on a netter from Walton on a Cox assist, his second of the con­test. 
Velho's hid for a shutout was broken with just over 20 min­utes left on the penalty shot goal by Daly. Ironically, the penalty came on a stellar save by Velho that del'leeted a Valpo shot off the top bar of the goal. The ball stayed in play, and attempting to dear the ball, the Irish fouled Daly in the box, setting up the ensu­ing play. 
Despite the offensive head­liners, tho key to keeping tho 
Irish  on  thP.  attaek  was  a  
healthy defense.  
"We defended  as  a  team,"  

said Murphy. "Especially aftnr the !irst 20 minutes, we played much more compact and did a better job of covering each other. We didn't have to defend individually." 
The team hopes to use the excellent play defending and seoring to· springboard their season, especially as Big East play starts this Saturday at Syracuse. 
. The Observer/John Daily 


-------,---~---,_..--._­
~­
: ~p~ag~e__18____________________________________________~T~h~e~O~bs~e~rv~e~r_·~S~P~()~R~T~S~---------------------------~--e_d_n_es_d_a~~-S_e~p_re_m_b_e_r_2_,_1_9_9_8 
·-~-~-~--...---~--------~ ~-· -~-·-w-­


D.Back 
continued from page 24 
before pulling a hamstring during the regular season matchup against LSU. Guilbeaux still produced, but in a rndueed role: He played off the bench for the next two games before starting again in the Independence Bowl. 
"Benny is a willing, try-hard guy." McMahon said. "The only time he gets into problems is when he gets into situations he hasn't seen. but those are becoming fewer and fewer." 
At free safety, senior A'Jani Sanders will probably step into the starting position after hold­ing off converted tailback Tony Driver during most of the 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Team co-captain and linebacker Kory Minor (4) and safety Tony Driver 
(25) are keys to a monstrous Irish backfield. 
American Heart A 
Associarion~V 
F'91'111n9Hllll~Orsea.se .~~a Strolt.e 
ONE OF THESE CAN CHANGE A THOUSAND LIVES 
SUPPORT MEDICAL RESEARCH 
spring. 
Sanders played in a reserve role for most of the '97 season before starting the final two regular season games. He reeorded 58 tackles last season to push his career total up to 
76. In the opening scrimmage of the spring, Sanders had an impressive performance, prompting Davie to wonder whether competition was a factor. 
"No. 25 [Driver] lurking back there may have had something to do with it," Davie said. "When you have competition, you need to step up and com­pete. I thought A'Jani stepped up." 
Driver has definitely made an impression on the coaching staff, as he continues to improve after his conversion 
from tailback during the spring. 
"Close your eyes and draw up a kid," McMahon said. "Then write a paragraph describing what kind of atti­tude you would want if you were a c.oach. You open your eyes and there's Tony Driver standing right in front of you." 
Even if Driver doesn't get the chance to start, he will defi-



Wly£ ~£fn Jork Wim£s Students: get an edge! 
T
wo-Thirds of the "influential leaders" read The New York Times. It is the most widely read Sunday publication and the second most widely read weekday publication. The men and women who make up· the "influential leaders" are among the upper echelons of government, busines" ?..cademia, and science. 
Whether you want to keep up with 
save 
events, issues or trends that can help money you in class, help you plan your career or broaden your horizens, the nation's 

too! 
premier newspaper gives you an edge. 
To start receiving YOUR subscription to The New York Times at the special student rate, please calll-800-535-5031. 
Newspaper in EducationIExpect the World Iwww.nytimes.com 
nitely be on the field of play often during the season. 
Along with Driver, plenty of names and faces will vie for starting positions this season. Justin Smith, Lee Lafayette and Deke Cooper will struggle to fend off strong freshman recruits like Clifford Jefferson and Donald Dykes. 
Still, the competition for positions indicates the glut of 
talent in all four spots in the secondary. But Davie believes tho tough schedule early will offer little room for error. 
"We've g!'lt the safeties with experience, we've got some young corners, we do feel like we have some talent there. Y;Ju look at the schedule and you understand why they have to jump up and mature pretty quickly." 

~EJU 'I'lCl{R~I' ·r ,O'I"I'.EHY 


www.nd.edu/-sub 
Class of 2000 




Welcome Back Dinner 
The fun starts at 5:30 Wednesday, September 9th at Stonehenge 
Catered by Subway Cost: $2.00 
Wednesday, September 2, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


Former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey 
will lecture on 
------Six New American Realities-----­

Thursday, September 3, 7 p.m. Washington Hall 

Senator Bradley's address is the University's first Hanley Lecture on Values and Public Policy and the first of six public policy addresses to be delivered on campus this fall by the former Senator. 
--~~-­
page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 2, 1998 
I I 
f 
I I
I _c-_ I 
l ~ 


You've worked hard to get where you are. Isn't it time to start seeing 
the results? At PricewaterhouseCoopers, you will. 
ASSURANCE AND BUSINESS ADVISORY SERVICES 
To learn more about career opportunities at the world's premier professional 
services organization, join us for our: 
WELCOME BACK TO CAMPUS "Bring a Friend" Reception September 3, 1998, 7pm-9pm Main Lounge, University Club 
Casual Dress 
www.pwcglobal.com 
PricewaterhouseCoopers is an equal opportunity employer. 
© 1998 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. organization of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and other members of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organization. 
Wednesday, September 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• SAINT MARY'S VOllEYBAlL • Vou.EYBALL 



Belles serve up win in Treadwell tops Irish in victory 
first match of season 
By GRETCHEN TRYBUS 
Sport~ Wriler 
Thl' Belles vollnyball tnam looked quill' diff!'rn'nt Tuesday night against Manclwstnr Colll~gn than it did a ynar ago. 
Last year. tl11• BPII(~S strug­glnd with liH'ir opponents and ultimately lost a hard-fought matrh. 
llut this yPar. thf' tables tunwd. Tlw Belles' aggressivn lwhavior on t.lw court led to a l!'i-2, lh-14, <J-I!'i, l!'i-4 win ovnr Manrlwster. 
That sur(:nss can only build (:onf'idnrH:n for Saint Mary's, espncially considering tho l(HLm 's young ago. And Tunsday, evnrymw on the t(~am got to hit tiH~ (:ourts -oven tlw tim~~~ freshman rnnmbnrs. 
TIH• slrnngth of lhn team shorw through in its serving, and that was kny in last night's match. Mary Hodovich, Vietoria Butcko and Brianna Cantor all had two servir(• ar.ns and Angin Meyors topped i! all with a total of threo. 
Tlw agressive serves wore the main elnment that brought tho Bnlles to their victory. 
Agnes Bill led scoring with 17 points. Moyors and Jane Ozbolt also mado excellent contribu­tions wi.t.h 12 points nach. 
In addition to hnr high scor­ing, 21 digs from Bill, combinod with Suzanno Martin's huge lo!<tl of !'il assists, helped Saint Mary's come out on top. 
If tho team is able to keep up its aggrossion and energy, the possibilities are endless for a successful season. 
"This was a good game to see whore we arc and where we are going," said head coach Jennie Joyce. "It was a good strong start to use as a stepping stone for making a great sea­son." 
The Bellos are looking to build from their experience, starting this weekend at the Kalamazoo Invitational. 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
If only winning were always this easy. 
The Notre Damn volleyball team made victory look like a cinch last night in the opening match of the season, over­powering at Valparaiso in three consecutive gamt~s 15<L 1 !'i-4, and 15-5. 
"I thought that the team 
played really wnll. Ov~mtll, i.~ was a great opennr lor us, said eighth-year head coach Dobbin Brown. "I was really pleased, but not surprised, with the play of Lindsay Treadwell, who led the team in almost every category and really provided good leader­ship for us." 
Senior captain Treadwell played all three games, recording 11 kills, 10 digs and winding up with a hitting per­centage of .563. 
"Going into the match, the coaches told us to communi­cate and to have enthusiasm," said Treadwell. "We did both or those, so we fulfilled one of the steps toward becoming a bntter team. 
"This match will help us because we know now that we can play together, we know we can beat people badly and we know that we're good," she added. 
Two sophomores also played key roles in the victo­ry: setter Denisn Boylan and lnftside hitter Christi Girton. Boylan played in each game and had 30 assists, while Girton tallind nine kills and 18 total attacks. 
Although Notre Damn domi­nated all three games, per­haps the strongest game was the second. 
Thn Irish played it nearly l'lawlnssly, with only onn error. Junior outside hitter Mandi Powell served 10 
Agnes Bill led the team with 17 points and 21 digs against Manchester. 

Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate for textbooks and supplies.
year Army ROTC awards You can also receive an allow­
scholarships to hundreds of ance ofup to $1500 eachschool
talented students. If you year the scholarship is in 
qualify, these merit-based effect. Find out today if
scholarships can help you paytuitionandeducational you qualify. 
ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Room 217 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6265 

straight points to lead the attack on the Crusaders. 
In game one, sophomore Jo Jameyson keyed the attack, serving five consecutive points in the middle of the game. 
Critical factors in the Irish triumph wore the height of the Notre Dame team com­pared to Valparaiso's players, and the inability of Valpo to pass successfully. ND has eight players who are 6'1" or taller, while Valparaiso has just two. 
Another key element in thn win was that the Irish met their goal of hitting above .300 against all unranked opponents, hitting .352 last night. 
This was the first match between the two teams in four years, and the first since Nona Bichardson becamn the head coaeh for the Crusaders. Notre Dame posts a 13-3 all­time series lead against 
Valpo. 
Notre~ Dame got its first­game jitters out in this match, which should serve the team well as it moves into the sea­son at full-tilt. 
"I think tlw fact that every­body played is important because thorP may be timns this weekend wlwn we'll need everybody, and it's good to havn that match llXpnrienee under our belts," said Brown. 
Thn Irish, ranked 16th nationally in the pre-season poll, will look to build confi­dnncn from last night's suc­cess heading into this W(Wk­end's tournament. 
Notre Dame plays host to Georgia and 12th-ranked Colorado in the Shamrock Invitational at the .Joycn Center. Last season, the Irish fell to Colorado in thr·e() straight games, but pullnd out a victory over Georgia in four games. 
ATTENTION ALL • ND STUDENTS! 
The Music Section of The Observer is looking for new reviewers. The benefits are (seemingly) endless. 
-Free CDo -FREE e1o Loootin1 -FREE promotional material -FREE Lacluta1e opportunitieo -FREE concert tioketo -FREE diotilled water-all you can drinl 
*YOU CAN'T LOOSE!* 


.For more informationyfease contact: FmmdXaffoy•Xusic Fbttor-4-2127 or Jennifer Zatorski•hsistantXustc: Fbttore4-285t ndmusic@hotmai/. com 
--~ -~------­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 2, 1998 
• Gou: 



U.S. Amateurs show expertise on the Irish links 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dam·e Sports Information 
Junior Jeff Connell is coming off of an impressive showing at the U.S. Amateur to lead the field in Notre Dame's annual campus championship. 
(x+2) fx~.
.~.: 
St~Jtistics 
Klee and Connell lead field in Notre Dame tournament 
veteran, sophomore Daniello Villarosa, of Verona, N.J., fin­ished ninth at 177 (89-88). 
Six newcomers rounded out the 12-golfer women's field, led by freshmen Kristin McMurtrie (83-86/169; Calgary, Alberta) and Lauren Fuchs (86-901176; Louisville, Ky.) and sophomore Shane Smith (91-88/179), a transfer from SMU and a native of St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Senior co-captain Brad Hardin, of Martinsville, Ind.. ­who won the 1996 campus championship at Blackthorn ­stands just two shots behind Connell with a 147 total. after posting rounds of 78 and a tournament-best 69. 
Freshman Kyle Monfort, of Dublin, Ohio. whose summer highlights includ(~d shooting a nine-birdie, course-record round of 63 at his home course Muirfield Country Club, stands in third place (74-76/150) while fellow rook­ie Chris Whitten, of Rockford, Mich.. used an even-par first round and 80 on Sunday to earn a share of fourth. Junior co-captain Todd Vernon, of Englewood, Colo .. who won the 1997 Big East Conference tournament at Blackthorn 
"£Ut SOJne\)\_te inJ'our T\_..~~ 
~th the ~~2 PlUs Afodtn.e· 
Only the Tl-92 offers powerful 
functionality with features such as dropdown 

so appr·D><( menus, split
~IC<>RIJ~rl( 
a:~~~~·.k~ec( screen 
C"HTI"'i9 t­FHCor<P)9>< > lih Extract • mode, 
symbolic manipulation with pretty print, 31) graphing, and text editor. 
• f(x ln(x))dx x2 ·ln(x) x2 
2 -4 
ruNe 1/M 
Adding the Tl-92 Plus Module takes all that capability to a 
© 1998 Texas Instruments Incorporated 
with rounds of 70 and 
71. also is tied for fourth after matching rounds of 76. 
Other top performers through two rounds include: junior Bo Plummer (77 -761153; Louisville, Ky.), sopho­more Pat Schaffler (76-781154; Dallas, Texas), freshman Steve Ratay (78­801158; Arlington Heights, Ill.) and junior newcomer Mike Gehrke (81-77/158; Grosse Point, Mich.). 
H.eturning starter Willie Kent of Asuncion, Paraguay -a senior who transferred to Notre Dame from St. Louis University last spring-is onn of four golfers tied for 1Oth at 159, after rounds of 77 and 82. 
Others who totaled 159 include sophomore John Dunham (81-78; Indianapolis, Ind.), junior Dan Bumpus (76-83; Brighton, Mich.) and freshman Brian MeCabe (80-79; North Barrington, Ill.). 
whole new level. Plug it in to 3D graph rotations, more retailer. The Tl-92 Plus your Tl-92 and get: linear algebra, an interactive Module can be purchased numeric solver, constants, from our on-line accessol)'
•
Over SOOK more memo!)'. 


and unit conversions. store, or by calling
• 
Electronic upgradability. 


1-800-TI-CARES. 
•4.!) ~ t2 .. 4·~·-t.jt.»2 .~ 27.(,­
·Advanced Mathematics 
•21'.'6·-1<!· 
_fl.. . %.6--l'l 

•2-ei· 
-~: ..~1'1 


Software including 
differential equations solving, 
•de5olve(y  1 ' ::::y~x~y)  
11 = ~!·<> ·x + @Z· ,.x  
'  .  
,.  

You can buy the Tl-92 at your college bookstore or local 
~TEXAS 
IH161998 INSTRUMENTS 
Wednesday, September 2, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
DON'1 u:. H£R IAI<E 
Smldl"nl~ ...'l'ht·rT 11 as a rn,lring
1Hf DONI/(5. A L /1(L£ 
r~e~ist• a' natural ga' 11 a' n•lt•ast·d
KNOWN fAcf; /)INIIIG HALL 
into tht• air." 
fOOP POSSESSES JAICRCPIBLf 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS vttaltty, sorry lo slay healrhy 00 DAY: Jimmy Connors, Mark Harmlm, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sud· Terry Bradshaw, Keanu Reeve!. den changes n•garding your circle.• ol 
Happy Birlhday: Gel rt•.td)' IO lril·nds will bP both mtcr<'sting .1nd 
St. Mary's lake make' your mark. You •ue mnving into stimulating. You can make sunw a high cycle thai will lead you down physical changes rhal will enhance• 
I 
an important and successful parhway your o\'rrall appl•.uance. 00000 This is not tlll' time for you tr' louk LIBRA !Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Secret back or live in the pasl. You must con­affairs will only lead you In
1'':.·:.~. 
centrate on what you want out of life heartache. Sudd,•n changes could ......\ol, .. 11:. 
and how you can make it happen result in PstrangL'ml•nl. Try not to be The opportunities will be there this too harsh with lnwd ones. Rememb<•r 
~~----------~--~_J 
year if you take the time to lllok fur that thl•n.. an• .1lways two sides to an them. Your numbers: 6, II. 15, 24, 29, issue. 00 42 SCORPIO (Qct. 23-Nov. 21):
BILL AMEND 
ARIES (March 21·April 19): You Minor accidents will cause trauma may find that your boss is not com· and major setbacks. Proceed wilh pletely thrilled with your work lately. caution if you are operating any The personal problems that vou've equipment or vehicles. Don't be too been having are interfering wilh your eager to start debates. 0000 produchviry. Snap out of it. 00 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
TAURUS (April 20·May 20): This You should consider starting your is a great day for a family outing or own business. Don't go ovt."rbtiard, just a long. leisurely drive. You can though. You need tu start small dnd win points with children if you take work loward building it up very the time to show interest in their slowly.OOO accomplishments. 00000 CAPRICORI'I: (Dec. 22-jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-june 201: Minor Your determination may make you a health problems may flare up if you little ton forceful when dealing with have been abusive to your body or others. IJon't try to lwist rhings bW'Iling the candle al both ends. Take around so thai they sound more 
.... 
a break; if you do, you'll finally be enticing; you'll only look foolish in 
able to mend disputes on the home the end. 000 
front.OOO AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (june 21-july 22): One­Secret affairs will only caw.e compli­sided relationships are likeil'. Keep cations in rour life. Try not to gel your feelings to yourself if you wanl involved in other people's privale to avoid embarrassment. You must doings. You can make sound financtal question others' motives and honesty investments if you act fasl. 000 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS in all your personal encounters. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): You should need some rest You've really worn be able to work out of your home yourself oul and your nerves are just today. Sudden changes concerning frazzled. Take a trip or jusl spend 
c
WE CAN ONLY SUCCEED .; OR WA.S 
co·workers will surprise you. Minor some quality lime with your male. health problems may lower your 0000
IF EAC.\-\ OF YOU THAT WOR.I<.S NIGHTS f>..ND SUPPO.SEO WJ;:EI<.EN05 FOP-A. TO INSPI R.E. YEP..P..! US? 


Wanted: 
37 The end of one's &2 Humpbacked rope, maybe helper
1 Regal showing 
&3 Missile housing s Arp's art 
3&Joplin 

Reporters, pho,
64 Smart guys 9 Kind of gun 
composition 
65 ---war bird
39 Lloyd Webber's 14 Bahraini bigwig (predatory flier) 
"--of Love"
15 Long-legged 66 See 45-Across 41 Poisonous:wader &7 Not speaking to 

tographers and
Prefix16 Soft palate 
68 Bushel and a projection 
42 Give a 
peck 17 Crucifix 
shellacking &9 Undiluted 
inscription 44 Additionally 18 Grasslands 45 With 66-Across, 

editors, designers 
19 Quiche Lorraine "Romeo Is DOWN ingredient Bleeding" star 20 Like Richard I 
1 Gardener's 
46 Puffy people? 23 Place for powder 
equipment
48 Kind of voyage 
2 Former Atlanta 

for the news,
24 Tony-winning so Hoopster arenaactress Grimes Archibald 
3 Joan of art 51 Leaf's breathing 
25 Do 4 Pitch on paper27 Flamethrower orifice
fuel s Sophie's 53 Cockpit abbr. 

sports, Scene and
30 Dinghy or "choice" and wherry 55 Like some others 33 "Put--on it!" schemes & Perpendicular to 34Anent 60 Spacious the keel 7 Bedside book 

advertising
&Gal Fri. 9Steam bath
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
followers 

departments. Join The Observer staff. 




The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City-------------State ____Zip____________ 
.. j • 
J 
1 
1 
..,. 

• A pair of U.S. 
• The volleyball team Amateurs top the 
made winning look easy leaderboard in the 
yesterday with its first Notre Dame campus 
victory over Valparaiso. 





PORTS 
championship tourna­ment. 
Wednesday, September 2, 1998 



• r. ::-, ,, ;Ci; • \1\JOMEi\($ SOCCER 
Irish take win in first of season Second-ranked Irish 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Spons \XIriter 
You ean't losf' a game if you don't l!'t up tlH' goals. 
\\"ith this ganw plan in mind. tlH• Irish canw out on top early in last night's contest against Valparaiso. c.ruising over the Crusaders by a final scon~ of CJ-I . 
Valpo's only goal of the mateh-NotrP Dame's lirst of tlw rt)gular season -was the last one on tlw board. a Scott Daly penalty shot with 20:30 Idt that squeaked by Irish goaliE~ Greg VPlho. 
A team also cannot win a game without scoring the goals. and the Irish hit thP back of tlw Crusaders net often. Notre DamP scored six goals on 21 shots, securing tlwir season-opening win. 
The Irish start<~d out slow, often losing possessions before they could gnt past the mid­field or missing unnecessary long passes, giving Valpo some early opportunities. 
"We started out a bit ner­vous, knocking long balls," said senior co-captain Matt Johnson. "Our offensive and defensive shape were not as well as thr,y could have been early on." 
Tho tide turned with about 20 minutes left in the first half. as the Irish began hitting 
• fDOTBAH 
begin with MSU win 

By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sporrs Editor 
Thn second-ranked NotrP Dame wompn's soccer team opened the '9R campaign yes­terday with a victory, dd'eating Michigan State 4-0 at Old College Field in East Lansing. 
AftE~r practicing together as a unit since mid-August, tlw play­ers were eager to take the field in a regular season gamn and get that first "W" under their belts. 
Senior forward Monica Gerardo netted two goals for the Irish Em route to thn victory. 
She oppned the scoring with a goal at 13:23 and gave the Irish a 3-0 edgE~ with another goal at 58:49. 
Sophomore Meotis Erikson had the Irish's other first half goal when she put a Jenny Streil'l'er pass in the back of thE) net at 41:43. Erikson also had an assist on the night. 
Amy Abner and Kim Shepela The Observer/John Daily played well on the defensive 
Andrew Aris (back) recovered from a knee injury he suffered in end for MSU, but they couldn't 
Friday's exhibition match to start against Valparaiso. 
deter the Irish from putting the forwards in front of the Ben Bocklage. more on the board. goal and turning in quality Their early performances Anne Makinen. who assisted scoring opportunities. Leading were only a preview of what on Gerardo's first goal, put one the way early on with scoring was to come. past Spartan goalie Sara threats were sophomore ---------,------Kloosterman at 81:32 to seal Reggie McKnight and senior see M.SOCCER I page 17 the Irish's 4-0 win. Jen Grubb had tlw assist. 
Tlw Irish dnl"nnsn succnssfully held ofT MSl!'s point IPadPr. Gina Dawson. who talliPd 18 points a ynar ago. LaKeysia Beene only had to stop threl' shots to n~corcl the shutout. 
Convnrsely, Notre Damn got oiT :{0 shots and enjoyed a 6-0 advantagP in cornnr kicks. MSU's KloostPrman had I:~ saws on tlw night. 
Tlw Irish an• now 9-2 all timP against Michigan StaW. 
"This game is somf'lhing to build upon," said :vtsu head coach Tom Saxton. "Our playnrs were well awarn of the Notrt) Damn's level and I d!'l"initPiy believe that there was mort~ positive coming out of the ganw than negative. It is a good mna­suring stick for us." 
It will be hard for most or Notrn Damn's opponents to measure up to tlw talnnt level of the Irish. 
"Year in and vear out they am one of the prer~1inr prograrns in the nation and should be loaded once again this year," said Saxton. 
West Virginia and Pittsburgh invade Alumni Field this wenk­end, but the Irish are prepared to meet the challnnge and intend to send both their Big East opponents packing. 

Preseason roster changes to strengthen backfield 
By BILL HART Assistant Sports Editor 
Last season, the Irish rallf'd to turn around a 1-4 start ­one of the grnatest midseason comebacks in school history. 
A lion's share of the credit went to the secondary, which, along with the rest of the defense, kept the team in the games long enough for the offense to deal a knockout blow. 
But this year. the secondary will have to move on without Allen Rossum, whose exploits on the special teams squad often overshadowed his swift­ness on defense. 
The tandem of Rossum and Ivory Covington was fairly dependable last season, but their lack of stature did ham­per their performance some­what. But now, a more physi­cal starting duo takes the field -Ty Goode and Deveron Ilarper. 
Goodr,, a firth-year veteran, proved his ability last year when he substituted for an injured Covington against Pittsburgh. Hr, continued to be a valuable commodity for the rr,st of the season, highlighted by an interception during the West Virginia gamr, to pre­serve the Irish upset. 
"Ty Goode has become a bet­ter player," defensive back 
"Because it's his fifth year, we want to make sure Ty gets every opportunity." 
Harper, who was converted from free safety after last sea­son, also has the ability to make a name for himself on the other end of the secondary. The junior from Orangeburg, S.C., has already been ranked 1Oth nationally among corner­backs in Lindy's '98 preseason football guide. 
Harper moved into the start­ing lineup last season, starting eight of the last nine games. Despite the move to corner­back, he feels that he will still perform well against the run. 
"That's definitely going to be a strength of mine," Harper said. "At free safety, you're the last line of defense, so you have to come up and fill the alleys. At corner, you're com­ing from a different angle, but it's the same thing. Our cor­ners have to come up and hit people." 
Both players will have to fend off Brock Williams, who ranks as the top backup at cor­nerback behind Goode and Harper. A good mix between physical play and pass cover­age ability, the sophomore has considerable potential. 
And despite his relative lack of experience, Williams has left a good impression on head coach Bob Davie. 
real good athlete who can is the name of the game. rive change direction, and he's a of six players have at least one natural corner," Davie said. monogram letter, and threfl "He's got a long way to go, but have played at least two years. what he brings you is some The most experienced player spark and some personality." at the position is senior Benny 
Guilbeaux, who has left his 
SAFETY critics little doubt of his abili­
With the safeties, experience ties. Entering the '98 season, 
Guilbeaux leads the ttlam with eight intPrceptions, and is sec­ond in t<u:kles with I:~5 -just bd1ind team co-captain Kory Minor. 
Last season, hn started the first ten games of the season 
see D.BACKS I page 18 

coach Tom McMahon said. "First of all, [Williams is] a Safety A'Jani Sanders looks to take the Irish defense forward against Michigan this Saturday. 
vs Michigan Volleyball vs Georgia
September 5, 2:30p.m. at Kalamazoo Invitational 

SPORTS 
Stt
September 4, 8 p.m. 
~-~ September 4-5 
#1ft.
.. 
vs West Virginia 
ATA 
\~ September 4, 7:30 p.m. 
Cross Country Soccer $ 1\. at Syracuse vs Loyola, PU'fdue, Butler vs Illinois Wesleyan 
:,, M' sc
GLANCE 
September 5, 7 p.m. September 12, 11 a.m. September 2, 4:30 p.m. 
• 





