' 
' 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 53 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERYER 
Donahue calls for clause change at rally 
'We have a Catholic responsibility to get rid of [homophobia}' -Phil Donahue 
By BILL UNIOWSKI 
Assiswu News Editor 
Tlw mov1~ment to add sexual orientation to the University's non-discrimination clause won extra support Monday from a nationally w1dl-known sou reo -talk-show pioneer Phil Donalnw. Notre Darn!! Ciass of·:i7. 
Donahue was tlw keynote spoakor and l'mreo at a rally in Stepan Conter. Sponsored by Notre Dame's Progressive Student Alliance (PSA). the rally fpll on thn nvn of th1~ Academic 
the so-called straight community." 
The issue of academic equality was raised repeatedly. Speakers cited multiple instances where the University's unfriend­ly policies toward homosexuals resulted in the discouragement of award-winning profossors from applying to thP University. 
Glenn Ilcndler, assistant English profes­sor. spoke of his research findings about Charlos Warner Stoddard, a writer and openly gay professor at the University in the late 1800's who loft after less than two years as a faculty member. 
"There is an ongoing history 

Council's  pivotal  voto  on  ll-'!=l::W·1~  •JW"  of losing potential and actual  
wlwtlwr or not to recommend  faculty  members,"  Ilendler  
the  issue  to  tl11~  Board  of  • ''History professor  said.  
Trustees for furtlwr considnra­ declines otTer due to  Ironically, after leaving Notre  
Lion.  gay discrimination."  Dame, Stoddard began teaching  


The Observer/Dave LaHeist 

Talk show pioneer Phil Donahue, '57, spoke yesterday to support the addi­tion of sexual orientation to Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause. 
• ACADEMIC COUNCIL 


Chapge up for vote today 
Sevnral profnssors. studonts and rnprnsnntaliv1~s from earn-pus gay/lesbian groups joined Donahue at tlw microphone. 
Tiw University races "an historic moment to put its pownrrul and respocted signaturn on a document that essentially says 'wn are all God's children,"' Donahue said. 
Many or tlw S)Wakers 1~choed sentiments ronr.-rning tlw Christian teaching or love and acrPptanrl'. 
"It's not only consistent with Catholicism. it's n~quired," S<tid .lim SturlH'r, profnssor or philosophy. 
I>onahun spoke about the slow develop­nwnt or his views al'tl'r growing up during tlw 19!i0s, and how his lnlnvision career Iirst ~~xposNI him to homosexuals. 
"It was in thl' pursuit of ratings that I disrovPrl'd tlw gay world -hardly a noble motive," Donahue said. "The gay rommunily was as variml and dit'forent as 

:~:;f.:.;.:.;.:.;.:.;.:.;~;.:.;.:.;.:.;.:.;.:.;.:.;.:.;~ 
~ ~
6: Native American~: ~: Heritage Week '98 ~: 
r,:.· .:. :.;.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.:.,.::-(.::-(.:.,.:. 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,y:y. 
p.9 at Catholic University in Washington, D.C. 
The absence of sexual orion­tation in Notre Dame's legal non-discrimi­nation clause places the University in a minority among top Catholic universities in the country. Speakers cited schools such as St. Louis University, DePaul and San Francisco as Catholic schools who include sexual orientation. 
"Let's hear it for the Billikens, and let's imitate them," said philosophy professor Edward Manier after reading St. Louis University's non-discrimination statement. 
"Georgntown and Fordham do not ofli­cially recognize gay students, but they give them a place to meet," Donahue said, reret-ring to Notre Dame's rol'usal to allow unsanctionnd gay/lesbian groups to meet in rooms on campus. 
Although the University has approved groups with homosexuals, they do not 
see DONAHUE I page 4 
ByTIMLOGAN Assistant News Editor 

After more than a year of research, dobatos and demonstra­tions, the addition or sexual orien­tation to Notre Dame's legal non­discrimintion clause is expected to come up for a vote today in the University's Academic Council. 
If passed this afternoon, the amendment will go to University president Father Edward Malloy for approval. Malloy can either veto it or send it to the Board of Trustees, whieh next meets in February. for a tina! decision. 
This change to the clause eould grant students, faculty and staffers the same protection of sexual orientation that they eur­rently enjoy for race, gender and other qualities. 
The Academic Couneil first eon­sidored the issuH at Its Oct. 8 meeting, when the group decided to postpone its deeision in order to further research the amendment. Since then, members have heen compiling researc~h on how other universities, especially Catholic 
see COUNCIL I page 4 



Elizabeth Dole will speak at Commencement ceremony 
Special to The Observer 
Elizabeth Dole, president of the Hod Cross and one of the world's 10 most admired women, will be the principle speaker at Notre Dame's 154th Commencement on 

May 16. Dole 
"She is quite a dis­tinguished person," said Dennis Moore, director ol' Public Relations, who explained that Dole was chosen by a vote of University officers. 
President of the Hed Cross since 1991, Dole is credited with initiating a sweeping transformation of the organi­zation's biomedical services, including 
an improvement in its work as the nation's largest blood, plasma and tis­sue product supplier. 
She has also lod fundraising nfforts that have generated more than $5(>2 million to assist victims of natural dis­asters. 
Dole has served five U.S. presidnnts, most rocently as George Bush's secre­tary o!' labor, appointed in 1989. In this capacity, she worked to iner·ease safety and health in the workplace, advocated upgrading the skills of American work­ers and acted to improve labor-man­agement relations, most notably in helping to resolve the Pittston coal strike in Virginia. 
She previously had been a member of President Reagan's Cabinet from 1983­
see DOLE I page 6 
.' 

Tuesday, November 17, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Excited football fans revel in stunning victory 

page 2 
• I-NSIDE COLUMN 

Living Single 
I love my room. 

Nestled in a private nook on the first floor of Cavanaugh, it's my own space, my own world. Several dorms have only a few sin­gles available, and I feel lucky to live in a Colleen Gaughen hall with 45. No bed­Asst. Viewpoint Editor times to compromise, no messages to juggle, no worrying about finding time for myself. 
You can tell a lot about a person from their room. How tidy or messy it is, what decorations adorn the walls, and which, if any, pictures are displayed. Not an inch of my walls can be seen, and I am constantly rearranging my knick-knacks to make all my picture frames fit. I am an extrovert, and I have a compulsive condition to express myself. I find comfort in surround­ing myself with words and images that speak to me. 
Many of my friends don't have much dec­oration in their rooms. They are introverts and tend to keep their thoughts and emo­tions inside instead of on open display. Neither type of person is right or wrong, just different; we are individuals and need to learn to be so. 
Last year my roommate turned out to be an absolute blessing, and I would never trade her or the wonderful memories of our room for anything. But she's not here to look out for me anymore. I don't have any­one to call if I'm going to be home late, or not come home at all. There's no one wait­ing for me after a hard day whom I can tell my stories to, or who will talk with me late into the night. I don't have an automatic dinner buddy. 
Living single is about freedom and grow­ing up. It's about making your own deci­sions, broadening your horizons, and taking control of your life without depending on someone else. We all need friends, don't get me wrong, but being too attached to people can really stifle personal growth and fndi­viduality. 
It's the same thing with relationships. Who are we if we're only so-and-so's signif­icant other? Being such an integral part of a whole often discounts who we are on our own. That's what's so great about being single. Discovering and enjoying who we are as ourselves and not worrying about pleasing another. Freedom to meet people and develop friendships. Never knowing what's going to happen. 
We are all so young. And we change. There is plenty of time for seriously com­mitted relationships; it doesn't have to hap­pen now. If you are lucky enough to have found that special someone, more power to ya! But if you haven't, don't sweat it! Cherish this time on your own, because later in life you are going to wish for the kind of freedom you are now taking for granted. 
If you know who you are and what you stand for, all the pieces will fall into place. It's trite but true; it's when you stop looking that it happens. And I do believe it was Cher who once said, "While you're waiting for the right one to come along, that doesn't mean you can't have fun with all the wrong ones in the meantime." 
Especially in this microcosm of conformity we call Notre Dame, it's so important to develop your individuality, instead of adopt­ing someone else's. So try living in a single room if you can, stop listening to Celine Dion, and choose to be single. It's okay. 
And it can be marvelous. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Tim Logan  Michelle Barton  
Robert Pazornik  Graphics  
Matthew Turner  Scon Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen Lopez  Brian Kessler  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eduardo Llull  Meg Kroener  
Colleen Gaughen  
Wednesday~ 
S6 3'l" Thursday ~ S4 44f 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MANHATTAN, Kan. 
The plans were made months in advance: The fans were ready to complete "Operation goal posts." 
With Kansas State leading Nebraska 34-30 with just seconds remaining, thousands of Wildcat stu­dents began to straddle the railing between the stands and the field. 
"Fiesta, fiesta!" many fans chanted in reference to the Fiesta Bowl, which will crown this year's national champion Jan. 4. 

Other fans were jockeying for posi­"This is just nuts. We've waited 29 tion so they could be first to the goal years and now we can't wait three posts once the game ended. more seconds," a Wildcat fan said to 
Many fans couldn't even wait that himself as he scurried off the field. long. The game would later end after a 
KSU linebacker Jeff Kelly returned kickoff, and the fans could finally a fumble 23 yards for a touchdown take out 30 years of frustration on giving the Wildcats a 40-30 lead with the goal posts at the north end zone. three seconds to go, but that didn't Stadium security officers were con­stop a throng of thousands from tent to let the north goal post fall, storming the field. conceding it immediately after the 

• COI..UMB!A UNIVERSITY Administration restricts conference 
NEW YORK, N.Y 
In response to the large group of students protesting against University of California Regent Ward Connerly, the opening lecturer for a two-day conservative conference that began at Faculty House Friday evening, University administrators decided late Friday night to effectively ban the second day of the conference from campus by limiting entrance to Faculty House to Columbia students on Saturday. On Friday night, more than 250 students chant­ed, held up posters, and jeered at conference participants as they entered Faculty House, where Accuracy in Academia, a Washington-based conservative advocacy group concerned with topics in education, was holding a dinner for the organization's members and students it had invited from colleges around the northeast. The University cited security concerns as the prime reason for the deci­sion to deny access to Faculty House to conference partici­pants without Columbia identification. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Dean of theology stepping down 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
0' Brian Professor of Divinity Ronald Thiemann unex­pectedly announced Friday his decision to step down as dean of the Divinity School, a position he has held since 1986. According to a letter addressed to the Divinity School community, Thiemann plans to spend 1999 on a sabbatical, after which he will return to the faculty and continue teaching and researching but no longer serve as dean. President Neil Rudenstine will soon appoint an act­ing dean to assume Thiemann's duties at the Harvard Divinity School (HDS), according to a Friday press release. According to his secretary, Thiemann would not speak to The Crimson about his sudden departure. Associate deans and members of the press office also would not comment on his leave. All questions regarding his departure were referred to the press office, which offered only a page­long letter from Thiemann about his resignation. In the letter, he made no mention of his reason for leaving. 
game, protecting the south goal post. Better to lose one than two, they said. 

"They can have those," said securi­ty guard Steve Thomas, nodding his head toward the north goal post. "They're not going to get these," he said, gesturing toward the goal post behind him. 
Thomas and dozens of otlH)r securi­ty personnel and police officers locked their anns together. protect­ing the south end zone, as others ushered fans to the north end zone where the feast was under way. The north end zone also was the end zone that led to the players' locker rooms. Cornhusker players did their best to sift through the crowd, but were met by sympathetic Nebraska fans as well as many combative Wildcat fans. 
Some screamed, "You guys suck," and, oddly, "The wicked witch is dead!" 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH fLORIDA 
University settles gender lawsuit 
TAMPA, Fla. 
A gender discrimination lawsuit filed against the University of South Florida in February was settled out of court Thursday, but plaintiff Mary Ellen Kimmel said USF still has strides to make before the issues are resolved. As part of the settlement, USF will create two programs to help alleviate inequitable salary practices based on gen­der or other non-performance related factors and will also pay $144,000 to be split between Kimmel, four other plaintiffs and their attorney. According to Kimmel, the set­tlement is an admission that USF discriminated against senior women faculty members by paying them less than male counterparts. "I don't think anyone sat down and said, 'Let's sit down and discriminate against the women today,' " said Kimmel, a distinguished service professor in educational psychology. "I think it's more of a Chinese water-torture process. It's the accumulation of general bias over a long period of time." 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 
Infamous Texas Tower to reopen 
HOUSTON, Tex. 
The UT System Board of Regents unanimously embraced a recommendation by UT president Larry Faulkner to reopen the observation deck of the UT Tower Thursday. Donald Evans, chairman of the Board of Regents, said there is no longer a need to restrict UT stu­dents from visiting the observation deck, which was indef­initely closed more than two decades ago. "I think it's a wonderful statement," Evans said. "We're saying to the students of Texas ... we welcome you. It's time to open up the Tower." Past efforts to reopen the Tower were unsuc­cessful due to objections raised by UT officials who saw the Tower as a dangerous place without a plan to solve safety and security problems. The Tower was closed in 1966 after Charles Whitman barricaded himself on the · observation deck and shot and killed 16 people. It was reopened again in 1968, but suicides in the 1970s caused thents to close the deck indefinitely in 1975. 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Tuesl;' 
·;;;, 
Friday ~.. 39 39,;il
. . ···+§-­

CO 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pre11um:
Saturday P"liD 42 28 ® co 
bZl [ill 0 Q~iif ­
\ ....~".t<j'-~~, ..'./"'''·"./ ·... High Low Showers Rain T-slorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vsa Associated Press 
Anchorage 14 -10 Baltimore 37 21

4,~,~4-Q.Q 1:) ~ u Compton 83 67 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow tee Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Calabassas 69 57 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
Garden Grove 81 69 

Goshen  37  28  Nantucket  47  25  
Huntington Bch 80  69  Pacifica  65  52  
Ka'anapali  92  78  Pawtucket  83  68  
Long Beach  77  62  Vacaville  90  74  
Los Angeles  80  69  Watts  78  69  



Tuesday, November 17, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
I I 
Energy-saving tips 
• 
Turn ofi' all lights, televisions, stereos, etc., when leaving the room. 

• 
Turn on· all study lounge and bathroom lights when no one is there. 

• 
Open the eurtalns for light. 

• 
Turn down tho heat. 

• 
Limit hot water use by taking shorter showers. 


By LOUBEL CRUZ 
News Writer 
Saving the environment isn't easy, but Notre Dame's giving its best effort. 
With hopes of heightening the awareness of personal energy 

SEA sponsors energy contest 
NOTRE DAME GOES COLD TURKEY 
Join the Notre Dame Community for 
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 
Thursday, November 19, 1998 

Tum in your tobacco products and receive a coupon for a FREE turkey sandwich. 
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following locations and times: 
X  LaFortune  lOam to 3pm  
X  GAlee Hall  I 0:30am to 11: 15am  
X  North Dining Hall  I lam to 2pm  
X  South Dining Hall  11am to 2pm  
X  Joyce Center  I 1:30am to 12:15pm  
X  Library Concourse  1:30pm to 2:15pm  

X Mason Services Center 3:15pm to 4pm 
Coupons for a Free turkey sandwich redeemable at: Reekers * HuddleMart * Greenfields * Decio Commons Cafe Poche (Bond Hall) * Waddicks (O'Shaughnessy) Irish Cafe (Law School) * Common Stock Sandwich Co. (COBA) 
Tobacco Cessation Materials will be available. 
This program is sponsored by IRISHealth, Notre Dame Food Services, American Cancer Society, and Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education. 
consumption, the Notre Dame Students for Environmental Action (SEA) will be sponsoring a campus-wide dorm competition throughout the month of November. 
"This is an annual event, and we hope to create more con­sciousness of conserving energy around campus," said Shannon Glynn, co-president of SEA. 
The Dorm Energy Conservation Competition will measure which residence hall saves the most electricity per person. The winner will be named "Greenest Dorm" and will awarded a commemorative plaque and two acres of rain for­est. 
"A lot of people thought that the newer dorms would have a better chance of conserving energy, so it was very surpris­ing when one of the older dorms won," Glynn said. "It really depends on the dorm and if people want to participate." 
SEA hopes that the competi­tion will educate students about saving energy and end wasteful habits throughout the campus. 
"The competition is an incen­tive for dorms to be environ­mentally friendly," Glynn said. 
With the competition lasting only two more weeks, dorms have already started doing their part in saving electricity. In Pasquerilla East, the dorm's environmental commissioner posted signs in the bathrooms to remind residents to be a "WATT Watcher" and turn ofT the lights when not in use. 
"This (competition) is impor­tant so people arc more eau­tious about the different ways we can conserve energy and help the environment," said Julie Heising, president of Pasquerilla East. "You are more sensitive about the situa­tion when you are more aware." 
Morrissey has also started its effort in the Dorm Energy Competition. Hesidents posted signs in all the lounges remind­ing people to switch the televi­sion off when no one is in the room. 
"We basically do what we can in public places to cons11rve energy," said Morrissey presi­dent Sean Marlow. "We here at Morrissey have also encour­aged people to shut off all appliances when not in use. We are watchers of energy." 
Invite your Prokuor to Lunch in the Hot~tality Room oHOH! , ·. Hovembtr17: 6ov't lkpt. Hovembtn8: Ananee·Otpt TUei. &Wed. 12:00 to 1:00 
Relax, it's only your future we're talking about. 
With 60 years of proven success getting students into the schools of their choice, we're the chosen leader in test prep. Just ask anyone who's taken Kaplan. They can easily be found at a grad school near you. 

... 
1-800-KAP·TEST www.kaplan.com 
•rest names are registered trademarks of their respective owners 
The world leader in test prep 
Tuesday, November 17, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

page4 
Iutions and numerous recent

Academic Council after the 
campus demonstrations. 

Faculty Senate passed a resolu­

Council 
In May 1996, the Faculty

tion in May calling for the 
Senate passed a resolution ask­

change. That Senate action came
continued from page 1 
ing the officers of the University

about in the wake of Father 
to add sexual orientation to the

schools, have dealt with the David Garrick's resignation. 
non-discrimination clause. 

issue, according to Father Tim Garrick, formerly a professor 
After lengthy consideration,

Scully. vice president and senior in the then-Communications and 
associate provost, who serves as the council's sec­retary. 
'WE HOPE TO HAVEThe council will consider 

A GENERAL AND

this research, as well as the move's legal and theo­OPEN DISCUSSION ON ALL
logical implications, in its debate this afternoon. 
THE ISSUES.' "We hope to have a gen­eral and open discussion 
FATHER TIM ScuLLY

on all the issues," said 
VICE PRESIDENT AND SENIOR ASSOCIATE PROVOST 
Scully. . 
At last month's meeting, it was disclosed by Carolyn Woo, dean of the College of Business Administration, that a prospective faculty member who was the most qualified applicant for the position was not hired because the candidate admitted 
to being a practicing homosexu­al. Academic Council sources said in October. 
The issue was brought to the 
See tomorrow's Observer for the Council's decision 
SPRING BREAK'99 

Donahue 
continued from page 1 
meet the students' needs, according to senior Karen Uhlmeyher. They are mostly counseling groups that treat homosexuality as a "disease or a sin," and something to be "hidden or denied," she said. 
The clause is not only a provocative issue for students and faculty -alumni are highly sensitive as well. The Gay and Lesbian Alumni (GALA) group is comprised of 
about 700 Notre Dame alumni, 
according to Donahue. 
"They are out and proud and carrying the flag and leading the way," he said. 
Despite the legacy of not adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause, Donahue remained optimistic that progress has been made and predicted successful pas­sage of the clause. 
"There have been some won­
derful moments ... the Spirit of 
Inclusion is here," he said. "I 
think the University of Notre 
Dame gets it. They have to get 
it-it's right there." 


Lookrng f'or Barnstormers nnd Dreamers ... You have ambition ... A confidence in your expertise ... And, .•. a bit of the visionary lurking about the edges ... 
Dreaming possible dreams is our specialty, too. 
COME SEE US 
6:3opm -8:3opm Wednesday, NfiV. 18th Marris Inn -Alumni Room 
United Airlines, a world-class amployee-owned company with a wholistic approach to life. 
, 

Theatre department, resigned because, as a celibate homosex­ual priest, he felt discriminated against by the University. 
The May referendum marked the second time in recent years that the Faculty Senate has addressed the issue of homosex­ual equality at the university, a subject which has also been the hot topic of Student Senate reso­the officers rejected the proposal, instead opting to adopt the Spirit of Inclusion statement, a non-binding clause which welcomes "all people, regardless ofcolor, gen­der, religion ... sexual ori­entation ... precisely because of Christ's calling to treat others as we 
desire to be treated." 
This time, the Faculty 
Senate's resolution asked the Academic Council to provide a more legally binding form of pro­tection. 
The Academic Council is com­prised of administrators, a wide range of faculty members and four students and is responsible for making the major decisions regarding academic life at the University. · 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 


J\hen0-::MUSIQVE 
ORGANUM AND CHANT IN HoNoR oF SAINTS 

~cbola 
;§Nusteorum 
9:30p.m. Wed., Nov.18, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public. 


At SCIENT, we have the passion, the processes and the know-how to build eBusiness innovations that help companies create wealth and crush their competitors! 
Founded in December 1997, SCIENT is the systems innovator for the electronic age TM. A systems innovator is a new model services firm that specializes in the development, implementation, and extension of innovative business approaches and systems. Scient is the only systems innovator sole­ly focused on eBusiness. Scient has a 'Dream Team' comprised of seasoned executives, Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, and savvy consultants who deliver economic results for our clients. Scient is the team to play on! 
We want smart and savvy Internet consultants, engineers, and developers who have the passion and the motivation to build the future of electronic business. Candidates should posses excellent commu­nication skills and have experience with object oriented programming. We have openings on the team for developers skilled inC, C++, Java Software Developers, COM, DCOM, CORBA Architects, DBA's Smart, Fun, Result Producing People! 
Positions Available: software developers Wage/Salary: competitive salary and benefits 
INFORMATION SESSION-Thesday, Nov. 17th 
• Room 204, DeBartolo Hall, 6:30-8:30 pm ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING-Wednesday, Nov. 18th 
• Career & Placement Services, Flanner Hall, 8:30am-4:30pm 
Contact: Courtney Sarno: csarno@scient.com 
I I 


Tuesday, November 17, 1998 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• 


NATO to merge arms 
HOME 
NATO's l·:uropean allies agreed Monday to create an arms ageney that would end duplication in t.lwir woapons manufactu­ing. At an I~U foreign and defnnsr. mini­tPrs lllPPting, British Foreign Sncrntary Hobin Cooke formally said Britain no longPr objPctPd to tlw proposal. It had hunn worried a more indnpnndnnt l·:uropn within tlw alliance would erode Washington's rommilnwnt to EuropPan st•rurity. Arms duplication has long been rhaolit· at NATO. whPrt' military planners havn had to contend with a hodgepodgn of norms. standards and ammunition nt•Pds. Tlwrt~ arP at !Past four tank-build­ing pro-grams in Europe. compared to onP in thP UniLPd States. oiTirials said. For infantry combat vehicles, Eur(lpnans havP Ih diiTnrPnt programs, compared to thrPP in tlw United States. And whiln less than hall' a dozPn U.S. companiPs make hPiicopters and military plarws, l~urope has I 0. 
Netanyahu suspends West Bank troop pullback 
JERUSALEM 
In yet another blow to the Mideast peace accord. Prime Minister Benjamin Nntanyahu suspended a West Bank troop pullbaek Monday and demanded that Vasser Arafat retract threats to usn force to bring about a Palestinian state. l'alnstinian officials countnred that Israel was making just as many inflammatory remarks and aecus1~d Notanyahu of inventing •~xcuses to avoid carrying out thn agrnnmnnl. The esealating tensions canw on the day Israel had been sched­ul!~d to begin pulling its troops out of West Bank areas and crippled U.S. envoy Dennis Hoss' efforts to gel the Mideast peace aceord oiT the ground. 
Clinton wants new Iraqi 
government 

WASIIINGTON 
The Clinton administration pledged Monday to intensify its work with Iraqi opposition groups and also to explore other op~ions to accomplish President Clinton's goal of a new government in Baghdad. "We're not going to lose any slnnp if Saddam Hussein suddenly isn't their leader. from whatever reason," said Statn Department spokesman .James Hubin. "No tmtrs will be shod." 

Composite
+!0.14 

Volume: +91.66 616,000,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

fU~II!&fSl' IU'IH'H ~rll6~iit' lii&lfS I!Bitt· 
1)1·.1.1 ('(IMI'IITI;k I>HI -117 -11711iiMI f,\ 11175 !IIIII ~co IIIHK' '-"~ -11.111:!!' l~()b~ IYCO'iiNC I.COS +lf11JI +It (l~~~~ ~ 1 ).615 INTI I CORP INTC tJ.UI lllh.H7~
+'-'~~~~ 

IIMHIACORI) HIM i-."i!UI +fU7~11 7-.7~ AI'I'LII:Il MAHRIAI AMAT -~ 01 ·1.9.\7~ \('1..112~ Mlt'IUISOI I CORP MSI·T -1.!111 -IIKH IOK.HI2~ ('11,\IJ'ACJ ('ClMI'lfTI:K CP(J •IC,IC +fl.~t12~ 
-'"' 12~ 
('1~1'0 SYSTH•IS l'SCO +l -'H +L~~IMI M.IJ.l7~ 1'1111.11' MOKN.IS ('0 MO ·II.HUll ~.1..\1:!~
·I''' 


AssociATED PRESS 
NEW YOHK 
In a swirl of confetti and shredded paper, John Glenn made his second trip through New York's Canyon of Heroes in a parade Monday saluting his return to space 36 years after he became America's first man in orbit. · Dressed in a blue flight suit and perched in an open convertible beside his wife, Annie, the-77-year­old pioneering astronaut was applauded by a crowd of thousands who lined the 14-block route along the office towers of lower Broadway. 
"It truly rates the word awesome," Glenn said at a ceremony after the parade at City Hall, where he and other crew members of the shuttle Discovery were presented with keys to the city by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. 
Glenn's first ticker-tape parade on March 1, 1962 after his Mercury flight is considered the largest ever in New York. An estimated 3,474 tons of confetti and ticker-tape rained down along a seven-mile route. 

Even boosted by noontime crowds from Wall Street, the turnout Monday was sparse by New York standards and spectators along a route less than a mile long were sur­prisingly restrained. 
Police said Glenn's parade was attended by 500,000-a figure that appeared generously inflated. 
The 1962 celebration "was more enthusiastic-a lot more people," said Myrtemina Lasalle, 58, who as a young newlywed attended Glenn's first parade and came from her Brooklyn home for his repeat trip. 
Gretel Enck of Brooklyn, 30, said too many Americans take the achievements of the space program for granted. Glenn's Discovery trip restored some of the luster-even if temporarily, she said. 
"It's become so everyday, so ordi­nary, nobody cares," she said. 
At City Hall, where artwork by Peter Max adorned the portico and red, white and blue bunting flut­tered from the windows, former CBS anchorman Walter Cronkite said of Glenn, "He was a hero to us then, and he's a hero to us now." 
Glenn told the crowd, which included many schoolchildren, that he hoped the Discovery f'light would inspire another generation-as well as the elderly-to reach for tho stars. 
Holding his key to the city.. Glenn said the tribute "unlocked the hearts and souls of the people of New York toward us, and we appreciate that very, very much." 
Glenn began the day with Giuliani, unveiling a Moravian-style star for the Rockefoller Center Christmas tree. After that event, Glenn recalled the 1962 parade, saying, "It was just so enormous. I remember just a blizzard of paper. You could hardly even look up with­out getting something in your eye." 
Glenn, who retires from the U.S. Senate next month, joins a list of individuals and sports teams hcm­ored with more than one ticker­tape parade. Others given that trib­ute include the New York Mets and New York Yankees, former Ethiopian emperor Haile Selassie. Dwight Eisenhower and Amelia Earhart. 
U.N. workers set to return to Iraq 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BAGHDAD 
U.N. weapons inspectors are to return to Baghdad on Tuesday in the first test of Iraq's pledge to cooper­ate fully in eliminating its weapons of mass destrue­tion. 
The return of U.N. per­sonnel to Iraq began Monday, as 30 relief wor­ers who had pulled out in fear of a U.S. military striktl arriv<ld at a military air base outside the capi· tal, Baghdad, aboard a special U.N. plane from .Jordan. Another 120 workers were due overnight on a bus convoy through the Jordanian desert. 
Prakash Shah, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan's envoy to Baghdad, said In .an inter· view that Iraq was heing watched closely to mea­sure its cooperation with 
U.N. inspectors searehing for forbidden weapons. 
"Many members of the Seeurity Council want the question of Iraq's coopera­tion with the inspectors to be tested and proved on the ground,'' Shah said. 
At the United Nations, chief weapons inspector Richard Butler under· 

scored the warning, call­ing the latest crisis with Iraq the most serious since the 1991 Persian Gulf war. Butler said Iraq had one more chance to tell the truth about its weapons programs. 
''The material we need exists. It is in the posse­sion of the government of Iraq. They can choose to give it to us or not. It's their cnll-and it's the crucial call," he' said. "I hope they're listening because the consequences are very severe.'' 
The threat of military action was averted Sunday when President Clinton 
announced tho Unitnd States had accepted the Iraqi government's pledge to lift its three-month ban on U.N. weapons inspec­tions. 
The U.N. Seeurlty Council has said economic sanctions imposed after Iraq's 1990 invasion of Iraq will not b(l lifted until 
U.N. arms inspectors and the Vienna-headquartered lnternntlonalAtomic Energy Agency certify th1H Iraq has eliminated its lethal weapons. 
The U.S. remains poised to act if Iraq fails to comply with U.N. weapons inspectors. 


It 

page 6 
Dole 
continued from page 1 
1987 as secretary of trans­portation -the first woman to hold that position. During her four-and-a-half year tenure. she led the govern­ment in the initiation of ran­dom drug testing, spearhead­ed the national effort to raise the drinking age to 21 and directed the overhaul of the aviation safety inspection sys­tem. She also managed the sale of the government-owned freight railroad, CONRAIL, an 
--~-----r---·~ 

action that returned $2 billion to the U.S. Treasury. 
Earlier, Dole served six years as a member of the Federal Trade Commission and two years as President Reagan's assistant for public liaison. Her White House service began when she was-appointed deputy assistant to President Nixon for consumer affairs in 1971. 
A native of Salisbury, N.C., Dole was graduated with dis­tinction from Duke University in 1958 and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. She subse­quently earned both master's and law degrees from Harvard. 
Got News? 


Are you looking for a job that gives you valuable design experience 1Nhile offering 
reat a ? 
HolyFr. Jim King.c.s~· r:i~i ~~\?'~.,~ Fr. Bill Wack.c.s.c.  Cross Community Service Commitment For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Cwuiidare Program contact Moreau· Seminary Notre Dame, IN 46556 6~~~~:~~~~ ~:~du/-vocation ANSWER~ THECALLVJ.)/  Apply for Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design Office Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. Extensive application is not necessary. Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave your name and number or drop off a description of your design experience at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior preferred.  

Com 
Eva Sanchez · Healthy the Hispanic Amistad and 
PRESENTS A LECTURE 
ispanic and the Hoos1 lo k at the Mexi-can Am in Michiana with an 
BY 

VA SANCHEZ 
THURSDAY, 11119/98 COBA Room #161 3:45 to 5:00p.m. 
alum who serves as a member of the 
ve. She is also a member ofthe Hi 
ation ofNotre Dame. Currently s for Social Concerns at N 

n 
phasis 
rsfor Commerce and Casa de 
' 
I 'I 
I I 

Tuesday, November 17, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Koestner: Rape is a life-changing experience 
BySARAHJ. HILTZ all know what that is," Koestner quickly by the William Kennedy familiar to the victim, Koestner prevent it. A.~"'ciatt• Nt•ws Editor said to a leeturn audience last Smith and Mike Tyson trials, said. Her own attacker was a fel­"These arc questions that eut night. helped to bring debate over the low freshman who had taken her like knives," Koestnnr said. 
l.ikP many young adults, Katie Latnly, Koestnnr has bnen trav­issue into the national spotlight. out to dinner that night. She told a reporter onen that Konstrwr changed lwr mind sev­ding to various colleges and high "I only speak for one reason," She added that many women she did not scream b!leaUS() slw eral tirnns bdim1 choosing a pro­schools, telling the story of her explained Koestner in the feel safer with a man they had bit a hole through her cheek fpssion. eonsidnring everything rape and suggnsting ways in Hesburgh Auditorium. "There already know, although that is that eventually searrnd, and she from hallnt to dwrnistry. which students around the are a million other things I could when they are more likely to be did not kick because she was 
But hnf'ore her f'rnshrnan yPar nation can prevent rapn and be doing with my life. I want a raped. bracing her muscles in self­of rollngn, slw had no way of support its victims. She has also day with no more rape." Those misconceptions impelled defense, she said. knowing what shn would actual­given her tnstimony on The Koestner revealed the many Koestner to tell her story, hope­Koestner emphasized tho feel­ly (md up doing. Oprah Winfrey Show, NBC's difl"erent, and often ill-informed, fully educating college students ing of powerlessness that she 
Thnn. she was rapnd. Datnline and numerous other approaches to rape taken by dif­and faculty about what rape suffered, a common feeling 
"It's prntty dnar that some­forums of diseussion. thing changml my lil'e, and you Koestner's assault, followed 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
by Christina Gorman 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, November 18 7:30p.m. Thursday, November 19 7:30p.m. Friday, November 20 7:30p.m. Saturday, November 21 7:30p.m. Sunday, November 22 2:30p.m. 
Playing atWashington Hall
along 
Reserved Seats -$9flight home, Senior Citizens -$8 All Students -$6
the plane goeAdoWn, 
Tickets are available at the 
lmt her trip iA LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call631-8128. 
juAt beginning 
ferent people she has encoun­really is and what can be done to among victims of rape. tered in her travels. Male stu­prevent it and support its vic­"This is a feeling most men dents have cited biological des­tims. nover eneountm·," Koestnor said. tiny, hormones and even Another aspect of rape educa­adding that even in the ease of Darwinism as excuses for rape. tion that affected Koestner per­team wrestling tho opponents 
Even the then-dean of the sonally was the abuse she suf­arc in the same weight class. College of William and Mary, fered at the hands of other stu­Koestner estimated that her where Koestner and her attacker dents and even her family. She attacker was approximately 70 were students, encouraged the was called names, objects were pounds heavier than she. two to reconcile their differ­thrown at her dorm room win­Koestner also addressed tho ences. calling them "a cute cou­dow and 1,500 William and fact that thf) overwhelming ple," even though he had just Mary students signed a petition majority of her audience was found "Peter" guilty of rape. arguing that she was a liar. women. 
/\n astonishing 84 percent of Many of these people thought "The men who needed to be rapes are "date rapes," meaning that the rape was her fault, or here tonight, they eouldn't fit it they are committed by somebody that she did not do enough to into their schedule. They hardly 
ever do," said Koestner. "They think, That's not my issue. I am not a rapist. She probably just hates men."'
Jason 

Koestner countered this by saying that she is motivated when men are willing to pro­claim, "Rape is wrong," and sheCLASSICAL GUITARIST 
called it a miracle when, after one of her talks at a eollcge, allThesday, November 17,1998 of the men in the audience got up on stage and repeated the 
Vteaux 
7:30 p.m. • Moreau Center 

phrase.Little Theatre Koestner believes the rape For ticket information contact education message would be much stronger if it was promot­
the Saint Mary's Box Office 
ed by more men.
at 284-4626 

"I hate to admit defeat," she S•lntM.,y'ICollt~"r~ said. "But sometimes I think MOf;ff.'Jl~ / [men's] voices go farther than 
mine."
THE ARTS 
NOTR. DAME, IN 

The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
Is delighted to announce its courses for Spring 1999 
IRST 102:01  Beginning Irish II  MWF 9:30-10:25  Peter McQuillan  
IRST 301:01  The Irish in Their Own Words  MWF 11:45-12:35  Peter McQuillan  
IRST 320:01  Independent Ireland  TH 11:00-12:15  Margaret O'Callaghan  
IRST 343:01  European Politics & Institutions  TH 2:00-3:15  Andrew Gould  
IRST 409:01  Dublin: The Restoration City/Stage  MW 11:45-1:00  Patrick Tuite  
IRST 420:01  The Politics of Cultural Identities  TH 2:00-3:15  Margaret O'Callaghan  
IRST 470:01  Irish Lit. and Society 1889-1939  TH 12:30-1:45  John Kelly  
IRST 471D:01  Staging a Revolution  TH 2:00-3:15  Susan Harris  
IRST 502:01  Graduate Beginning Irish II  MWF 9:30-10:25  Peter McQuillan  
IRST 577:01  Yeats and His Contexts  H 6:30-9:00 p.m.  John Kelly  

For information about the Irish Area Studies Program please contact The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
or visit the Undergraduate Studies Office 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
I I

1 r 
VIEWPOINT 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
A~SISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER........................ Bryan Lutz VIEWPOINT EDITOR... ....Eduardo LluiJ AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Bren Huelat SPORTS EDITOR .................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS...... ................. Sarah Dylag CONTROl.LF.R ..................................... Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDJTOR ...............................Pcre Cilella PHOTO EDITOR . .. .........Kevin Dalum 
The Ob!ierver is the independent newspaper published by rhc srudcnrs of rhe University of Nom: Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It docs 001 necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. Tlu: m:ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rcpn:senr the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. A..~.oiistam Managing Editor and dcpartmenr cdirors. Commentaries, letrers and columns presen( the view!>. of the:: authors. and not necc:s.c.arily those: ofThe: Obse:rver. Viewpoint space: is available to all mc:mhc~ of rhc None Oame/Saim Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lertcrs is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Assisram ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Sysrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoim 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• THE PROGRESSIVE STUDENT AUJANCE 
Catholic Character from Orthodoxy or Justice, Compassion? 
Today the Academic Council will be considering a resolution calling for the amendment of all of the University's non-discrimination policies to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual 
Tim Byrne 

orientation. An identical resolution was passed by the faculty senate in May of 1996. In January of 1997 President Malloy appointed an ad hoc committee to "investigate" the resolu­tion. In spite of constant promises to report back to the faculty senate, Malloy's committee never did so. Instead, the administration stonewalled. During the Spring of 1997 and throughout the entire 1997-98 academic year, the administration merely ignored the Faculty Senate's resolution. Finally, at the beginning of this semester, the Faculty Senate passed a resolution reaffirming the resolution and committing it to the Academic Council for consideration. At the Oct. 8 meeting President Malloy introduced a motion calling for "post­ponement of action pending fuller dis­cussion of the issue." President Malloy is a mason by temperament, it seems. 
To understand the administration's resistance to this resolution, one only needs to read the minutes of the Faculty Senate from March 7, 1995 when Patricia O'Hara appeared before the Senate to explain her rejection of the Faculty Senate's resolution calling for immediate recognition of GLND/SMC. Iler claim is quite simple: recognition of an organization such as GLND/SMC (or OUTreach ND, its suc­cessor) is inconsistent with the Catholic character of Notre Dame. This University, she claimed cannot recog­nize an organization of gay and lesbian students that consistently refers to homosexuality and homosexual activity in "value neutral language" because the catechism teaehes that homosexu­ality is an intrinsically disordered ori­entation and that sodomy is a sin. Since an effect of the current resolu­tion would be to force the administra­tion to provide equal access to univer­sity facilities for gay and lesbian stu­dents, the grounds for the administra­tion's resistance are easy to divine. 
The line of argument which Ms. O'Hara deploys is too quick. She sup­presses a hot debate which needs to be brought into the open as part of any honest discussion regarding this issue: the question of exactly what sort of Catholic character this university is to have. 
On one hand, the administration acts on a vision of Catholicism that equates Catholic character with an unflinching commitment to all of the doctrinal mis­sives dispatched from Rome with the new catechism front and center. Strict orthodoxy is its touchstone for deter­mining the Catholic character of a community. 
On the other hand, the overwhelming support in the Senate for amending the non-discrimination clauses stems from a commitment to a divergent concep­tion of Catholic character, yet one shared by a large group of faculty and students. 
The sort of Catholic community I have in mind distinguishes between central and peripheral doctrines. The incarnation, the real presence of Christ's body in the Eucharist and the essential dignity of human individuals are central doctrines. The prohibition of sex outside of marriage, the pre­scription of confessing annually to a priest, and the proscription of sodomy are peripheral ones. 
The Catholic community I have in mind is willing to set aside peripheral doctrines when it finds that they run up against more central ones: concern for justice and the essential dignity of man always trump a commitment to strict orthodoxy in the sort of commu­nity I am describing. 

The community I have in mind lis­tens in a spirit of dialogue when its gay and lesbian members speak to them about the heavy burden that doctrine places on their lives, willing to set sueh doctrines aside in practice when it finds that acting on them means hurt­ing others. 
All persons are called to appropriate their capacities for love of others, to form affective unions with others, to mature from the gratification of desire to a loving concern of those upon whom one's desires converge. (My kinder gentler version of Freud's claim that to mature is to move from the pleasure principle to the reality princi­ple.) To do so is an essential moment in becoming the individual that one is. To respect this process as lived by oth­ers is part of what it means to respect human dignity. 
While heterosexuality or celibacy are possibilities for some persons, they are not possibilities for everyone. They are not possibilities for me, for example. I am a gay man, and I am a Catholic. My homoerotic friendships have been an essential part my emotional matura­tion, and sexual activity has been an integral part of many of these friend­ships. To realize this is to discern one's vocation in life. 
Gay and lesbian Catholics have been asserting this for some time now, and the sort of Catholic community I am describing takes this to heart, and informs its attitude toward official doc­trine by what it has heard through this dialogue. 
The Stonewall riots are 30 years behind us now. The sin that dare not speak its name has been out for a gen­eration. For a generation we gays and lesbians have been talking about our lives and loves and needs, and a respect for us as persons and for the exigencies of our individual vocations is finally beginning to take hold. 
The resolution before the Academic Council today speaks from out of a vision of Catholicism that is responsive to these changes, that recognizes the dignity of gay and lesbian persons and the private responsibility that each individual has to discern and to live out his or her individual vocation. 
The administration's stonewalling is understandable. O'Hara and Malloy find their fists jammed in the dike holding back a sea of opinion that would wash this University back toward a less legalistic vision of Catholicism. It is understandable. but still unpardonable. This is a difficult issue to debate, but it needs to be debated, not dictated from on high. 
The debate immediately concerns granting privileges tantamount to recognition to OUTreach and ending a policy of permissible discrimination against gay and lesbian faculty and applicants for faculty positions. 
Ultimately though, the debate comes down to this: Is strict orthodoxy more important than our respect for the dig­nity of other persons? Is the Catholic Character of this University to be gauged by its orthodoxy or by its jus­tice and its compassion? Do we take the Pharisees for our paradigm or do we emulate Christ? 
Tim Byrne is a graduate student in the Department ofPhilosophy. The Progressive Student Alliance runs a column every Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of the Progressive Student Alliance or The Observer. 

• DOONESBURY 
A?I TOW YCV, /(/{;'!<£ TH8 ONt-Y I?RY10:/Se ON CAMP/.El 
PI-ll PHAT~ KNOfAJHCW 7{)HAll& RJN t.VI7HOl.ITBIACKIN6 OUT/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU  
5ia/N/?56R£AT, /JAR.. I JlJGT /UI5HicaJW B&9.JR&.I  OF/A/HAT, ZtPr I  

• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Democracy is a device 
that ensures we shall 
be governed no better than 
we deserve.' 
-George Bernard Shaw 
'I 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 17,1998-----------------OB~ERVER -------------------------page9 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
"Lice Girls" Get Bad Rap 
In response to "The Lice the student government in Girls," an editorial by Heather order to inelude these people MacKenzie which appeared in into the Non-Discrimination Monday's issue of The Clause because who are we to Observer, we would like to say that people with lice don't express our full support of have valid opinions (unless, of those members of our Notre course, it is Senator Bill Dame community that have Bradley). been diagnosed with lice infec­Finally, with all the diseus­tions. When we read her arti­sion of animal rights concern­cle on the subject, our eyes ing the recent choice of were opened. We tore down objeets to be thrown at foot­our anti-McGlinn sign, and ball games, we are outraged 
embraced a  by the non- 
new era of  concern of  
sensitivity  campus for the  
because, at  'WE FIND IT RATHER  feelings of the  
this pivotal  HYPOCRITICAL  lien. Wn lind it  
point in our lives, we  THAT THROWING DEAD  rather hypo­critical that  
came to  OCTOPI IS CRITICIZED BY  throwing dead  
realize that unsanitary  THE SAME STUDENTS THAT  octopi is criti­cized by the  
people have  EMBRACE THE IDEA OF ANNI- same students  
feelings too. Who are we  HILATING AN ENTIRE POPU- that embrace the idea of  
to ignore  LATION OF LICE.'  annihilating an  
these people  entire popula­ 
just because  tion of lice. To  

of fear of getting lice our­uselessly inelude another selves? How selfish we have famous quote, "can't we all all become. just get along?" When will we 
Yet we warn Heather learn that we should not judge Mac.Kenzie, and to use a use­people by race, religion or less Bible quote because it content of their hair? makes us sound smarter, "Let So next time you see a he who is without sin, cast the McGlinn girl about campus, first stone." Heather you should go up, give her a MacKenzie refers to them as big hug,and ask her if you can "The Lice Girls." In a time of borrow her hat. Thank you political correctness; we and go Bulls. believe that it would be more appropriate to refer to them Todd Callais as "Uninhabited-Head John Schirano Challenged." We have also Class of 'OJ, St. Edward's Hall contacted several members of November \6, 1998 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
History Professor Declines Offer Due to Gay Discrimination 
Hm:ently, Professor Gregory Dowd invited tinguished university and can only harm me t.o apply for a vacant professorship in Notre Dame's efforts to recruit new faculty, Anwriean history at Notre Dame. Apparently, as it has in my case. 
my name eame up as an award-winning scholar and innovative teacher. Applying to join tlw emim\nt history faculty of an internationally renowned uni­versity like Notre Damn would have been a great opportunity, and I bnlieve I would havn IHlen a strong candidate. 
But I had to inform Professor Dowd that how­eve!' much I might want Notre Dame, Notre Dame would not want me beeauso I am openly guy. 
From t.he oducalional prnss and the acadmnic grapevine, I was well aware of reeent ind­dtlllts and policios aimed at lesbians. gays and other sexual minorities at Notre Dame. The conver­sion of GLND/SMC into tho administratively restricted group, NDLAGS-forbidden by chartnr to !lloct its own of11cers or invite speakers to campus ­assnults the eore of' the educational mis· 
sion: to foster· frnedom of' expression among articulate and well-trained young people. 
Last spring, a department in the College of Business Administration removed a top job candidate from its short list. simply because he info1·med the search chair that he was gtty. This suggests that the concepts ofmeri­tocracy and academic freedom are unknown or unprotected at Notre Dame. Such widely· known inddents mar the reputation of a dis· 
As a historian and educator, I believe that universities exist to lead the way into the __...........,-...._ future, not the past. I do not envi­
sion a gay future for America or 
for Notre Dame, but simply one with a uniform standard of equality. Ihave be(ln in a committed relationship 
with another man for 15 years, since I was 20 
years old. I could no more hide him, at uni· verslty functions orin 
any other area of my life, than could any other faculty member with a long~ term part­ner. 
I decided to write this letter to urge everyone 
at Notre Dame-stu~ ·. dents,.staff, faculty and ad,m1nistrators '--oo to sup­port the. current proposal to add sexual orientationto the 
university's nondiscrimirt.~.ttion .. clause. As I understand.it;the · Fighting Irish havtl alwa.ysheen thE). 
embodiment ofthe good guys, · Good guys don't discriminate} they tight for truth and justice -for everyone. 
Scott A Sandage Ass.istarit Professoroflilstory Carnegie Mellon University, Pitt5burgh, PA National Endowment fdnhe Humaniries F¢llow, 1998 · Nov~mbed2.1998 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Isolation and Mutation Rampant on Mod Quad 
lias anyonn lwnn to mod quad lately'? however, daims to have SfJen a similar is? Sadly, the answer is no. Though our joined the ranks of those that get a stilT Olhnr than those of LIS who arn Jueky crnature when she was running around hall has great spirit and I have had no neck every time they wash their hair nnough to livn out lwrn with a vinw of the lakes. This would lead me to problems with the dorm, I do have a because for some roason our showers .Junipt~r and tho lovely l.akn Pasqunrilla believe that it was not isolation but problem with it's location. In real were built for thn vertically challenged. (tlw vollnyball eourt that noods whnn it nnvironment that caused this creature estate it's loeation, location, location, I know, we have air conditioning, and drizzlns that is useful all of thren to mutate. Is it feeding out of the lovely right? Well, as Flanner and Grace were for the first week of school that made wnl'ks a ynar)'? If' anyorw has walknd North Dining Hall dumpster that we turned into offices half of the popula-me happy but now I want mon~. I don't lll'twnnn I'.W. and Singf'rind 
know what it is exactly, on tlwir way to Knott or I'.E. 
but somnthing. I want to tlwy might bn familiar with 
walk out thn door of my till' ernaturtL It is an argu­
~ dorm and run into somn­

nH~nt my roomrnatn and I 
one walking by that havn bnPn having for months. 
doesn't livn horn. I think and wn want to know what it 
• Lewis residents can sym­is. pathize with this. I want 
It is no morn than six inehes to be abln to sit through long and has grny fur. It's tail a whole day of studying is about throe inehes long. I in my room without say it is bushy likn a squirrel's hearing fire engines and tail. my roommatn says it police cars drive by a rnsnmhlns a pipn deannr. It dozon timos. has no stripe down its back I know I shouldn't and it runs up trnns. There is complain but it is my somnthing funny about it's specialty. I transfnrrnd ears though. Neithnr of us ean here this snmnstnr and dneidn whieh creature they was lucky to get a room earnn from. We havn come to in the first place. I was two di!Tnrnnt conclusions. I even luckier to have a sav it is a mutant. dwarf roommate that is also a sq'lrirrnl. She says it is a chip­transfer student. I am munk that sufl'nred from somn thankful to be at Notre mutation that causf1d it's tail Dame and am enjoying to grow vnry long. my stay. I just wish my 
Wn have not dnbated what stay were more cnntrally caused this mutation. though there are can walk by every day? Or is it our tion left Mod Quad. This place would located. Even if it did mean giving up a fnw J)ossibilitins. I think that it was close proximity to the power plant? be prime location if the university ever air-conditioning. somnthing similar to the Galapagos Maybe it was just a freak aceident and decided to return to the policy of segre­Island nfTnct wlwrn you take some­we are reading way too much into it. gating first year students into one cor­Emily Elizabeth Fleming thing, put it on a dnsnrt island (Mod Isn't there anything better to do out ncr of campus. Sophomore, Pasquerilla East Quad) and give it a few years to evolve here in the middle of nowhere than to The Knott and Siegfried men (as well November 16, 1998 into something nnw. My roommate, argue about what kind of creature this as any Pasquerilla girl over 5'5") have 
.. '\ .... ~' .. ' . ····1·1 ...·... "" .....·.. -..... -...... ' •.-.....\ ·' . • I\ 
;,s.~ ...~.,_oo:.a.::,...!:l,..=.,..~·w..... -: .. •-~-~!:.\J ~·-~-·-·· 
1 I 
1' 

I I I 
( 

page 10 
•

r1 


·Getting story of 
Atlantic and a woman who must. 
•

exam1ne her past for the first time 

s 
O THE BSERVER ---------------Tuesday, November 17, 1998 

•


t1n seaI 
• I 
er wa 
1n 



Wrecked• presents the 
• 

a plane crash 1n the 
By JULIA GILLESPIE 
Scene Copy Editor 

Siiri Scott, director of "Getting Wrecked," cites realism and relevance to the Notre Dame commu­nity as two strengths that will help make "Getting Wrecked" a success. 
"'Getting Wrecked' is an amazing performance because of the fact that it is so colloquial, vernac­ular and realistic," explained Scott. 
"The play deals with issues many members of the Notre Dame community have confronted in instances where they do not take the time to eval­uate the meaning of their life until someone pro­vokes them to learn about themselves," he added. 
"Getting Wrecked" debuts for the first time on stage on Nov. 18 at 7:30 p.m. Performances will continue through Nov. 22. 
Cristina Gorman, the writer of "Getting Wrecked," graduated from Saint Mary's College. The play is a product of the Notre Dame experi­ence that Scott and Gorman shared as undergrad­uates working together in the theater department. 
Gorman is Bnthusiastic about their work togeth­Br and the production. 
"We know each so well that we share the same understanding and appreciation of the play," she said. 
This is thfl first contemporary play Scott has 
directed at Notre Dame. The present-day setting of the play makes it easier for students to relate to. 
"Getting Wrecked" is also unique because the playwright has worked closely with the cast. 
"I allow the cast to add or change elements of the script based on feedback from the students," said Gorman. 
'THEPLAY DEALS WITH ISSUFS MANY MEM­
BERS OF THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY HAVE CONFRONTED.' 
SIIRJ Scorr DIRECTOR OF 'GETF!NG WRECKED' 
Louise Edwards, the leading actress, is grateful to the cast and for the opportunity to work with the playwright. 
"The play has been an incredible opportunity, especially because of the experience working with the playwright, which many undergraduates do 
not have," said Edwards. "The perspective of the person who completely created the play is amazing," she explained. 
Edwards plays the role of Alex Hansen. llansen, a successful and highly driven working woman, sacrifices her sense of self and the people she loves for the sake of her career until a plane crash changes everything by forcing her to strug­gle for her life amid the Atlantic Ocean. 
Hansen cannot exercise any control over this situation, which is unusual for her. Her memories haunt her as she journeys into the truths of her unconscious and she confront many different challenges. 
" [She] absurdly breaks in and out of the reality of her own mind of what is true and what is imag­inary," explained Scott. 
The fragments of the character's mind function as a puzzle of her life. The audience must piece this puzzle together. 
Kevin Dreyer, the scene designer, created a set for Edwards that looks like a plane scat suspend­ed over waves. This set attempts to create a mood for the audience and make them feel as if they overlook the ocean. The platform rocks like waves. 
As Edwards travels into different scenes from her character's past, other cast members support her, entering stage during various points of her emotional recollections. 
Gorman's play is not a costume drama. In "Getting Wrecked," all of the characters are prod­ucts of the imagination of Alex Hansen. The cos­tumes, selected by Jane Paunicka, do not provide information about the characters themselves, but reveal how Hansen feels about the characters. 
"[The costumes] demonstrate what Alex [Hansen] demands of the other characters and how they perceive themselves," said Scott. 
Scott cast a range of students from sophomores to juniors with a broad range of experience. Other cast members include Jeff Cloninger. Kathy Koch, Erin Lutterbach and Mick Swiney. 
"The diversity of the cast brings a lot to the stage so everyone learns something new," explained Scott. 
Edwards admits she has learned a great deal from the collaborative efforts of this performance. Scott has also been impressed by the level of energy exhibited by her hard working cast. "They all pushed themselves to their limit," she said. 

'
' 1 I ' \ • I '' 
' 
' ' '' 
c s 


OTHE

Tuesday, November 17, 1998 ----------BSERVER ------------page11 

• 
ne woman 
1n 


tin rec<e 


I 
Washington Hall turns into the Atlantic Ocean 
Ill 





. I 
1' 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Tar Heels advance in Preseason NIT with 65-44 win 

Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 

Ademola Okulaja scored 15 points and grabbed a career­high 17 rebounds as No. 10 North Carolina overcame a lackluster second half to down Florida International 65-44 Monday in the first round of the Preseason NIT. 
The Golden Panthers (2-1} were playing their third game in four days and wore down against the deep Tar Heels (2­0). who will now host Georgia on Wednesday night in the tournament's second round. 
Brendan Haywood added 12 points, 10 rebounds and five blocked shots for the Tar Jlee Is. 0 k ul aj a's previous rebound high was 12, which occurred twice during 1997. 
North Carolina has won 52 of its last 57 games spanning three seasons and 51 straight against non-conference teams. 
The Golden Panthers didn't fare any better in the final 20 minutes, shooting only 19 points in the second half and shooting 26.5 percent overall. 
Raja Bell, who scored 23 points in season-opening wins over Michigan and Northern Arizona, had an off night and was held to six points on 3­for-15 shooting as the Golden Panthers never recovered from a 28.6 percent first half. Carlos Arroyo led Florida International with 13. 
Meanwhile, North Carolina turned the ball over on five of its first six possessions of the second half as the Golden Panthers, who trailed by nine at halftime, closed to 36-30 with 16:10 left. 
But freshman Jason Capel keyed a second-half surge, scoring nine points over 5 1/2­minute span as North Carolina increased the lead to 54-37 with 8:03 remaining. 
Haywood, who didn't start because he was late to a team meeting, scored 11 of North Carolina's final 12 points of the first half as the Tar Heels led 34-25. 
No. 23 UMass 87, Niagra 73 

Monty Mack scored 24 points, including three 3­pointers, as No. 23 Massachusetts beat Niagara 87-73 Monday night in the opening round of the Preseason NIT. 
Lari Ketner added 16 points and nine rebounds for UMass (1-0). which will play St. John's in the second round Wednesday in New York. 
Charlton Clark(l hit a 3­pointer to trigger a 9-0 run that helped the Minutemen take command early in the second half. 
Ketner and Mack sank jumpers and Clarke added a pair of free throws during the spurt to put Massachusetts ahead 42-30 with 18:11 left to play. 
Niagara (1-1} was led by Alvin Young and Terry Edwards with 18 points each. 
Niagara pulled within 6 7-62 wlth 3:28 left, but couldn't get any closer. 
Neither team could solve the other's pressing man-to-man defense in a turnover-plagued first half. Niagara had 10 turnovers in the half and UMass had nine. 
Niagara led 26-25 with 3:59 left in the first half, but Ketner hit two quick jumpers to give Massachusetts a 33-30 half­time lead. 
No. 13 Oklahoma State 90, Nortwestern State 65 
No. 13 Oklahoma State had its balance on display Monday night, overcoming challenges in each half to beat Northwestern State of Louisiana 90-65 in a foul­plagued season opener. 
Joe Adkins scored 23 and Adrian Peterson, the coaches' choice to be player of the year in the Big 12, had 21 as Oklahoma State won its 24th straight home opener and 79th straight nonconference home game. 
Richard Taylor scored 25 for the Demons (0-2}, who were called for 37 fouls and had five of their 10 players foul out. They were outscored 3 7­12 from the free throw line, although Oklahoma State missed 15 of its chances. 
5 
6 
7 
8 
\F1Q ·­
11 
12 
18 
13 
14 
16 
17 15 9 19 
20 
22 
''·''··'''''""2'0 24 

Broncos defeat Chiefs, keep undefeated streak alive 
Associated Press Redskins, and put them on track had even a four-game losing of the field. But Jason Elam added 42 and for a Dec. 21 confrontation in streak in Marty The next score was even 46-yard field goals before the KANSAS CITY, Mo. Miami with the Dolphins. who in Schottenheimer's 10 seasons as quicker -a 79-yard drive that half and a 35-yarder in the third The Denver Broncos are mak­1972 were the last NFL team to coach, looked like a dispirited took only three plays and 1 :05 quarter. Things officially ended ing their quest for an unbeaten go unbeaten. bunch against the Broncos, who and was capped by the burst by with 7:36 left in the game when season seem easy -with and Brister finished 13-of-23 for now have outscored opponents Davis, who finished with 111 Gannon, who finished 26-of-39 without John Elway. 180 yards and Davis, who leads 114-13 in first quarters this sea­yards on 18 carries. He was for 224 yards, tripped and fell at 
Bubby Brister, Elway's back­the NFL in rushing, carried 18 son. tripped up 10 yards downfield, the 20 on a fourth down at the up, ran 38 yards for a touch­times for 111 yards. The Denver It took just 2:42 for Denver to regained his balance, and con­Denver 10. down on the first series, then defense held the Chiefs to 31 take a 7-0 lead, on the bootleg tinued on into the end zone. Derrick Loville added a final Terrell Davis went 41 yards for yards on the ground. around right end by the 36-That was the game. TD for the Broncos on a 1-yard a score as the Broncos jumped It was the fifth straight loss year-old Brister, who is now 4-0 The Chiefs cut it to 14-7 on an run. to a quick lead and went on to a the Kansas City, (4-6}. which as a starter in place of Elway, 87-yard drive that consumed The game had deteriorated by 30-7 win over Kansas City on looked before the season like who is nursing pulled rib mus­almost 8 minutes of the second then' -Kansas City had five Monday night. the most dangerous threat to cles. Brister was virtually quarter and was capped by a 3-personal fouls, three by Derrick 
The victory made the Broncos the Broncos in both the AFC untouched after his fake to yard TD pass to Kimble Anders Thomas, on the drive. The the first 10-0 team in the NFL West and AFC as a whole. Davis pulled the entire Kansas from Rich Gannon, filling in for Chiefs finished with 13 penalties since the 1991 Washington But the Chiefs, who had never City defense to the opposite side the benched Elvis Grbac. for 137 yards. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classitleds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES WANTED
I I 

THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am • 7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm 'ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES TO SOUTH PADRE (FREE MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­WEST, PANAMA CITY.REPS NEEDED/TRAVEL FREE,EARN THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80· $115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107 1-800-418-9487 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­

FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! Bed box set. not available in 
U.S. call pete at 251-0178. 
PHONE CARDS $20 buys 282 mins. Contact: 
Andrea -634·2584 Dori -684-3339 MiMi -634-0907 NO Football Tickets Needed. 2 USC TIX for sale AM 232-2378 .PM 288-2726 Call Dave (651) 486-7498 

NO FOOTBALL TIX i need lsu tix! call 634-3006 FOR SALE 
AM 232-2378 

PM 288-2726 I NEED LSU 
TICS Always buying and selling N D x3054 football tickets. 289-8048 Chris 
Sun: Noon -Midnight  CASH. GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR  rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  
When you need copies,  6+. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  1 ,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  Pckrd Bell 120Mhz BOM RAM 1.2 g HD  Parents coming to town and I need 2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4-4896.  PERSONAL  
we're open!  800-838-8203.  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­ CD, Mon., Spkrs.  
TIES.272-6551  ext. warranty  Need 4 LSU TIX Pat@ x0680  FAX IT FAST!!!  
Early Spring Break  $500firm  Sending & Receiving  
Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT·  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  246·0781  WANTED: 2 AEROSMITH  at  
6 Days $279! Includes most meals!  Workers earn up to $2000+/month  AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272·  TICKETS, NEED GOOD SEATS.  THE COPY SHOP  
Awesome beaches, Nightlife! Departs From Florida!Cancun &  (w/tips & benefits) .World Travei!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000­ 6306  TICKETS  271·9543  LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties  $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517­ WALK TO CAMPUS  SELLING: 4 LSU GA's!!!:  FAX IT FAST!!!  
$339!Panama City Room With  336-4235  2-5 BEDROOM  TICKETMART Inc  $70/each  Call Mike @1812  
Kitchen,? Free Parties  Ext.C55841  232·2595  BUY-SELL-TRADE  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  
Notre Dame Football Tickets  NEED 4 LSU TIX  Break"  
$129!Day1ona Room With Kitchen $149! springbreaktravel.com  FOR RENT  House for rent, 105 Marquette, 5 bedrooms, available now and for  258-1111 No student tickets please  Call312-951-5008-EVE.  Spring Break Packages are going fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica  
next fall, 232-6964  NEED 2 LSU GA'S. CALL  Packages for the Class of '99!Stop  
1·800-678-6386  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  FOR SALE  257-1141.  in at Anthony Travel in the  
ILOST & FOUND I ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  Room for Rent in Turtle Creek apartments. Call 273-2435.  FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412  I Need 2 LSU GAs Call Fred 289-7136  LaFortune Student Center and check out the best Spring Break vacations around.Get your deposit  
········••••FOUND.............  THE HOME BASED B&B has a few rooms left for Army, Baylor,  FOR SALE  WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Help my little brother see his first  in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a chance with an unknown agency or  
Big Set of keys @ Domino's on  and LSU. One nights are welcome.  271-1526  Notre Dame football game!!!! I need  some 1-800 number.Limited space  
Edison on 11/6.  Also needed, one ticket for the  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  two tickets (GA or student) for the  available,so book now!  
A.S.U. game.  198 MIN. $20  NO Ftbl. tix  LSU game. Good chance to make  Anthony Travel, Inc.  
Call271-0300.  271-0989 lv msg.  BUY-SELL  some CA$H! Call Tammy @ 284·  LaFortune Student Center  
CALL 258-4805  273·3911  5170 ASAP!!!!!!  631-7080  

'  
, ' •  '' 'r •  ' 'r  '.' 1  
Tuesday, November 17, 1998  The Ob!;erver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT  page 13  

+ Campus Ministry This Week + 








OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Wednesday', November 18, 7:00pm Log Chapel Part 7 of a Seven-Part Series on the 
Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Wisdom ·by Ms. Chandra Johnson 
Sunday, N c~vember 22 St. Joe Hall NDE #53 Tealll Retreat 
Sunday, Nc~vember 22, 1:30pm Stanford-Keenana Chapel Misa en ~Espanol (Spanish Mass) Celebrante: Padre John Herman, C.S.C. 
Thursday, ~~ovember 26, 11:30 am Basilica of the Sacred Heart Thanksgiving Day Mass 
Expositic>n of the Blessed Sacralllent Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's C:hapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Emmaus 
Looking for an exciting place to explore and share your faith with others? Look no further. Emmaus is here. For more information on joining a small faith sharing community in our Emmaus program contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016. 
• 
' 
. '., . '' 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 17, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Clemens wins fifth Cy Young 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Cy Young No. 5 filled Hoger Clemnns with thoughts of baseball immortality. 
"This," he said, "brings mn a step closer to the big house in Nnw York -the Hall of Fame." 
Clemens won the award for a record fifth time Monday, getting it for the second straight year. And he did it unanimously for the second time. 
"It's overwhelming," he said from his home in Houston. "For it to be unanimous kind of makes it bookends to the one I won in 1986." 
The 36-year-old right-han­der, who won his first three Cy Youngs with Boston in 1986, 1987 and 1991. went 20-6 with a 2.65 EHA for the Toronto Blue Jays, striking out 271 in 234 2-3 innings. He went unbeaten in his final 22 starts. winning 15 decisions after starting 5-6. 
Clemens. who gets a $250,000 bonus, is one of only three pitchers to win the AL award unanimously, joining Denny McLain (1968) and Hon Guidry ( 1978). 
He had been tied at four Cy Youngs with Steve Carlton and Greg Maddux, who has an out­side chance to win another when the NL voting is announced Tuesday. 
AL voters had no doubt about their selection when Clemens tied for the league lead in wins and was tops in EHA and strikeouts after fin­ishing first in all three cate­gories in 1997. He received all 28 first-place votes from the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Boston's Pedro Martinez was second with 20 seconds and five thirds for 65 points and got a $75,000 bonus. David Wells of the New York Yankees was next with 31 points and earned a $50,000 bonus, and Yankees teammate David Cone was fourth with 16 points. 
Clemens has been frustrated since the end of the season, angry Toronto hasn't re­signed Jose Canseco, wonder­ing if Blue Jays owner lnterbrew, a Belgian company, will spend enough money to field a competitive team. 
"My No. 1 goal is to win in Toronto," he said. "I want to win there and I don't think we're far away.... Maybe a couple of higher-end type quality players." 
Clemens, who is signed through 2000, posted a state­ment on his Web site last week in which he criticized the team and general manager Gord Ash for not re-signing Canseco. 
"I told Gord I hope it didn't stir anything up," Canseco said. "I apologized. He may be handcuffed, that he can't make any moves because he doesn't have a budget." 
See tommorrow's Observer for cross country results. 



Yet Clemens remains angry. 
"I don't hear anything from the offices that we're going to catch up with the Yankees, Baltimore, Cleveland," he said. "I don't hear that yet." 
The Yankees have been mentioned as a trade possibili­ty along with Boston, the team that drafted him in 1983 and let him become a free agent after the 1996 season. There's also been talk of Clemens going to the Astros, who play near his home, or to the Texas Rangers. 
"''ve heard the rumors like everybody else," he said. "Two years ago, when I was a free agent, there was no interest in Houston and Texas. Fifteen years ago, when I came out of the University of Texas, Houston picked before Boston. I guess there was no interest there, also." 
There still seems to be anger toward Red Sox general man-
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 1n 
ager Dan Duquette and chief executive officer John Harrington, both under renewed criticism in Boston after breaking off contract talks with Mo Vaughn. 
"They have their agenda. They know who they want there and I think it's obvious," Clemens said. "I just hope they don't try to make Mo look bad, like they tried to do to me." 
But while others wanted to look ahead, Clemens was happy just to celebrate. When he won last year, he joked that each of his children could have a Cy Young -Koby, Kory, Kasy and Kody (all named with the letter K in honor of his strikeouts). On Monday, the kids were all cel­ebrating, running around the house in Houston. 
"My boys' reactions," Clemens related, "were, 'Now dad, you've got one for you."' 


Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
were the most for the stum­bling Irish squad. 
On Saturday, the Irish went to the brink of defeat before clawing their way to a victory over the Pittsburgh Panthers. The match went the full five games, with the Irish winning 15-10, 15-11, 4-15, 9-15, and 21-19. It was a more favorable outcome for the Irish than several previous five-game matches, as Notre Dame was defeated by two points in game five of matches against Fairfield, Connecticut and Oral Roberts earlier in the season. 
"We were just tired of los­ing," senior middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell said. "We didn't play well, but when it came down to it, we just fought and scrapped and dug until we won." 
Treadwell had a season-high 19 digs against the Panthers, and added five blocks to lead the Irish defense. Emily Schiebout keyed the Irish offense with 16 kills. Bomhack added 14 and sophomore Christi Girton recorded 13 to aid in the attack. Sophomore setter Michelle Graham tallied 42 assists and 10 digs for Notre Dame as she played her sixth-straight match for the injured Denise Boylan. 
"We just played with a lot of heart," Brown said, lauding the team's perseverance in game five of that match. "Even though we hadn't been playing great, we came through in the clutch." 
For the Panthers, 17 kills and 16 digs from Melissa Alpers, 16 kills from Paula Zemrowski and Marcie Thiesen's contribution of 12 kills, 14 digs and six blocks kept the team competitive. 
Despite the loss, Pittsburgh's play helped earn the team a spot in this weekend's Big East tournament by giving it wins in two conference games. The Panthers tied Providence and St. John's with a 5-6 con­ference record, but secured the No. 6 seed and a rematch against the Irish by holding the advantage in the percent­age of wins in conference games this season. 
The Irish close out their reg­ular season tomorrow with a non-conference match against Toledo. 

College ofScience Student Council Presents the Uistinguished Sc11olar Lecture Serie> 
"Ion/Surface Reactions: From Microelectronics to the Space Shuttle" 
Protessor Dennis C. Jacob:> Department ofChemistry and Biochemistry 

MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR JUAN RIVERA 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 17, 1998 126 DEBARTOLO 5:00 P.M. 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE APPLICATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER l, 1998 

Tuesday, November 17, 1998 8:00pm 138 DeBartolo Hall 

.. I-
Tuesday, November 17, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

time and taken advantage of by ~lectra ~nd peopln he called leeches. 
"From what. I can determine, it's not legal. It sounds like lw was deeply intoxkatnd," Manley of Newport Beaeh, Calif., said. "Obviously anyone that would marry somebody that was intox­icated to the point that they couldn't speak or stand had ulterior motivns of some sort." 
Manley said several people who attended the wedding cere­mony called him Monday to toll him Rodman was intoxicated Saturday night. 
"We don't issue a license if they're intoxicated no matter who they are," said Cheryl Vernon, supervisor of the Clark County Marriage License Bureau. 
Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
ioiie-M"oni"lli 

I  I  
:  Unlimited  :  
I 1  . Tannmg_  I 1  

: only $40.00: 
L-.o.-----... ---.J 

University Commons by UP Mall 
272-7653 
iToT'a-ri"ni"n_g_i
I I 
: Bed : 

or I s .
1 esswns 1I 
l only $35.00 l
L-----------.J 
Grape & McKinley near KMarr 
256-9656 

HISTORIES OF TJriE 
ABORTION,ANTI-CATHOLICISM, AND CENSORSHIP IN 19TH CENTURY AMERICA 
NICOLA BEISEL 
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY, NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY FELLOW, NATIONAL HUMANITIES CENTER 
ABORTION DEBATE 
WHAT IS AT STAKE WHEN ABORTION BECOMES A TOPIC OF DEBATE?: PERSPECTIVES FROM 
THE 1830'S AND THE 1930'S GAIL BEDERMAN 
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WEDNESilAY NOVEMBER 18TH 7:00-8:30 HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM RECEI~TION TO FOLLOW HESBURGE[.CENTER GREAT HALL 
Abortion continues to be a highly contested topic both within and outsiqe of the University of Notre Dame. Discussions of abortion must take into consideration the complex nature of abortion's history in this culture, including the history of abortion de hates. This event is intended to provide a central part of that history and is offered in the spirit of advancing intellectual discussion and debate. 

~ r  ..  . '  '  
page 16  The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT  Tuesday, November 17, 1998  


Frustrated?? 
Don't let it get this bad. Express your views about the Arts & Letters College. 
Dean Mark Roche will speak at an Open Forum concerning the Arts & Letters College. Afterward, he wants your input.­
Wed. Nov. 18, 7:30 
Lafortune Ballroom. Refreshments will be served. 
Sponsored by the Arts & Letters Student Advisory Council 
I. 
I I 
Tuesday, November 17, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
score and he doesn't seem to ing." 
• COLLEGE fOOTBLL
mind it." During his freshman cam­
Murphy 
In fact, Murphy is loving it. paign there will be times when "That's one of the reasons I it'll seem like there's a lid on
continued from page 20 
came here," Murphy said. the basket or the referees 
Couch's best friend 
that include all-American hon­"I've been preparing myself aren't giving him any calls, 
ors from Street and Smith and for awhile to play in college but Murphy will try to adjust playnr of the year for his coun­and I've always wanted that and learn from those experi­ty. type of role. Notre Dame need­ences. 
dies in car accident 
Thn 6-foot-9 left-handed for­ward alrnady has an honor at the Division I level: Basketball News tabbed Murphy as the Big East newcomer of the year. 
Murphy has not only stepped into a starting role fl)r the Irish. he will be looked to pro­vide consistnnt scoring -a tall order for a freshman. 
"Wn think he's going to be a very good player for us," MacLeod said. "We have high hopns for him. We want him to ed some scorers. I think between David (Graves), Phil (llickey), and Antoni (Wyche). I think we can provide a lot of scoring." 
"They're not reluctant to shoot at all," MacLeod said of his freshman starters, Murphy and Graves. "Both Troy and David have a lot of confidence. II' you want to be a scorer and you miss three in a row you have to have the confidence to keep shooting it. They have the confidence to keep shoot­
"One of my goals this year was to start," Murphy said. "It's something that I guess is unusual. We'll probably strug­gle this year just growing into the different game and learn­ing how to play different defenses but it will help us in the long run because we'll be more accustomed to playing when we're upperclassmen." 
Coach MacLeod ho'pes the learning process will go quick­ly for Murphy and his fellow freshman. 

The Kellogg Institute Latin American Film Series 

This film combines a contemporary love story and an anthology oi tango, wjth dashes of politics and melodrama. Tango Bar is a spectacular musical. Flashbacks reveaJ. both the pohtical situation in Argentina coming und~r dictatorship and the history of tango, from its origins to its moot moden1 expressions. Incorporating clips of tango as seen in the hi~.tocy of cinema and featuring the best choreographers, dancers, and musicians of tango. The film is piicked with sizzling music and lxautifully executed prod111ction numbers. In Spanish with English subtitles. 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 

The excitement of a game Saturday against No. 1 Tennessee and a pending bowl invitation faded to gray Monday at Kentucky as the team mourned a truck crash that killed one player and injured another. 
Also killed was the best frfend of Kentucky quarter­back Tim Couch, who opted not to join the others on an ill­fated hunting trip Sunday. 
"Being a football player, you think you've been through a lot of tough things, losing games in the last seconds, tak­ing big hits," said Couch, who broke down in tears as he talked about the death of life­long friend Scott Brock. "You think you're a tough person until you have to deal with going in and seeing your best friend's parents after he's just passed away." 
Brock, a student at Eastern Kentucky University, was killed along with Kentucky defensive lineman Arthur "Artie" Steinmetz when start­ing center Jason Watts' pickup truck went out of control and flipped over on U.S. 27 near Somerset. 
Driver Watts was thrown from the vehicle with the other two. He severely cut his right arm. The three were headed to a farm near Somerset to go deer hunting when the acci­dent happened just before 7 
a.m. Sunday. None was wearing a seat­belt. 
The cause of the crash is being investigated, but Pulaski County Sheriff Sam Catron has said speed might have been a factor. Routine blood samples taken from Watts at the hospi­tal are being tested for aleohol by the state police. 
Watts was in fair condition Monday at Lexington's University of Kentucky Medical Center, where he underwent a preliminary operation to clean the wound, which stretched from his elbow to his wrist. The hospital said Dr. James 
Lovett, a plastic surgeon, 
removed glass, rocks, dirt and 
dead tissue from the lacera­
tion, repaired some tendons 
and closed the wound. 
The crash occurred hours 
after Kentucky (7 -3) celebrat­
ed Senior Day at 
Commonwealth Stadium with 
a 55-17 victory over 
Vanderbilt. Watts was among 
those honored in a pregame 
ceremony. 
Couch said he had visited 
Watts. 
"I just told him I'm not blam­
ing him," Couch said. "I think 
he listened to me." 
Coach Hal Mumme canceled 
practice Monday. He and Mike 
Breaux, a minister at 
Southland Christian Church, 
one of Lexington's largest con­
gregations, met with players in 
what they deseribed as an 
emotional meeting. 
"It was a preeious limn for the team," said punter Jimmy Carter. "Some of the guys were crying. We all got down as a team and prayed." 
Before the meeting, Mumme said he planned to tell the players "that God has a plan for everybody's life, and some plans are shorter than others." 
"1 think it only serves to point out for all of us that we're only one brief heartbeat away from eternity ourselves, and nobody really ean say when that time is." Mumme said. 
Safety Jeff Zurcher said players sat in total silence, waiting for the meeting to start. 
''I've never bnen in there with 100 other guys, especially football players, and had it be that quiet," he said. 
Brock's funeral was sched­uled for Wednesday. Services for Steinmetz will be Thursday. 
Mumme said some players would attend services for Brock, while plans were being made for the entire team to attend those for Steinmetz, a defensive lineman who trans­ferred from Michigan State in August and was practicing with the scout team while he sat out the season. 
Steinmetz had been was expected replace senior defen­sive tackle Mark Jacobs next season. 
"Artie was a guy who was just a delight," Mumme said. "He never failed to havn a humorous comment to me when I passed him in the hall." • 
Brock grew up with Couch in Hyden, and was a running back and receiver at Leslie County lligh School when his friend set national high school passing records tlwre. 



Tell a joke, sing a song, re;ad a poem, and karaoke. 
I=! J~ ~,,._; .. \\. ~ ~~-,_., ~ ~·:.:1 11 ~ :!1 ~ ~ 
w-~~'F{v-fi ,$ i4$ Sponsored b~." SAB =if8,...Z ("~· F hi ti.,,f:i­
~ ··~ • ~ r !::i --r 
'I 

, I 
'' 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 17, 1998 
high. He also managed 400 pounds on the squat rack as a

Hockey 
freshman. So far this season, Carlson 

USE OBSERVER 
continued from page 20 
has continued to lead. posting be difficult. The high school nine points (3 goals, 6 assists) game often rewards one­and a plus-5 rating in 11 
CLASSIFIEDS.
dimensional players simply games. because they possess offensive Last Friday night against skills so far superior to their Bowling Green, Carlson fin­opponents' skills that it allows ished off a two-on-one break them to dominate the game by with linemate David Inman for 
themselves, even without a one of the season.'s most pic­two-way game. turesque goals to date. 
"In high school, obviously The following night against the players weren't as good, Michigan, his tireless so my game was mostly forecheck consistently forced offense. and speed," Carlson Michigan's experienced said. "I think my defense [has defensemen into turnovers. improved the most)." one of which produced the 
But according to Poulin, first Irish goal. Carlson was never strictly Dan Carlson, like the rest of one-dimensional. his teammates, seems to be 
-.. l! ···,.· ;~~~" /,D:.~·­
"When he got here, he didn't enjoying the team's early suc­have a glaring deficiency in cess this season since he has ,,~ .. IJ· his game," Poulin said. "He played a significant role in 
a';~:?~ .~.
had to adapt to the new level that success. Entering last 
of play, but he was solid in all weekend's play, the -Irish held e'\~her dte'Holidays••• 
aspects of the game." the No. 6 ranking in the 
Carlson's on-and off-ice nation. Such a prestigious dis­Your '99 Christmas Oub Now! work ethic opened the door tinction makes playing hockey AVoid tin'iincial storms during the holidays byfor the seemingly undersized much more interesting, says 
;~)opening a Christma.-::Ciub Account today.
athlete to play an all-around Carlson. 
game, a game which is usually "It adds some pressure, but This aceount features: 
characteristic of bigger play­it's a lot more fun playing, 
I.COMPETtnVE DIVIDENDS 
ers. too," he stated. "In the past, 
• NOMONTHLY SERVICE CHARGES
Carlson is arguably one of we would just go out and play, the best-conditioned athletes but there was nothing on the 
:fSAVE THRU PAYROLL DEDUCTION 
on the ice every night. As pre­line. Now, everybody's gun­viously mentioned, he has the ning for us since we're first 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
durability to play in every place in the league." game. With the skills he possesses, 
hrtstmas qtub
But more important to men­along with his superb work tion is how much ice time he ethic, there is a future in this 
-~L...... 
actually gets. He plays on a game for Dan Carlson beyond line with freshman center the NCAA. The NHL game, David Inman and junior right says Poulin, is currently wing Joe Dusbabek, which undergoing major changes, 
2 Convenient 
stands as the team's second changes which can certainly 
Campus Locations-
scoring line. benefit a player like Carlson. 
DOUGLAS ROAD OFFICE
He also sees time on both "The NHL game is reverting the penalty kill and the power back where height isn't as 
SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS 
play, where he plays the point much of a factor because of 
(The Center Building) 
next to senior defenseman the way they are starting to 
Plus our ATM at the Campus Bookstore 
Benoit Cotnoir. call the game, the interference His coach has referred to penalties in particular," Poulin him as "an absolute horse," said. "Obviously, that will help 
~~~NOTRE DAME ,---,
• which means that he main­a player like Danny who ..,.. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION ~~ 
tains the energy level game in skates so well." 
For People. Not For Profit. Independent o1 the University and game out to keep up such 
a grueling chunk of ice time. 
..---------------.::==============================---,
His work ethic off the ice is 

probably the most astounding aspect of his Notre Dame career thus far. He is com­monly known by his team­mates and coaches as the hardest-working player on the team. 
"I've never seen a guy before who works as hard as Dan," said teammate Sam Cornelius, who also was a teammate of Carlson's on Edina's state championship team. 
In the team's fall condition­ing program in 1997, before his first season had even begun, the 5-foot-1 0, 190 lb. freshman bench-pressed 305 pounds, which was the team 
. . 



Save up to 75Dfo on many name brands! 

Nautica Adidas 
3 DAYS ONLY AT THE LOGAN CENTER November 19th 10-7 • 20th 9-8 • 21st 8-1 :30 
1235 N. Eddy St. • South Bend • 289-4831 Portions of the proceeds to benefit the Logan Center 

fac/ ~taf(/ family Tenni~ Clinic 



Wednesday, November 18 • 6:00 PM -7:30 PM • Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke Analysis & Playing Situations Presented By: Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams Free of Charge -Open to all Dependents 23 Years of Age or Younger
No Advance Registration NecessaryBring Your Own Racquet 
RecSports Office 
Tennis Shoes Required -No Running Shoes Allowed Rolfs Sports Recreation Center For More Info. Call RecSports at 1-6100 1-6100 • http://www.nd.edu/...recsport 
·­



•
Women's 

Volley:ball 
Wed., Nov. 18th 
vs.·Toledo 
7:00p.m. 


Watch Exciting Volleyball Action 
BILL AMEND 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-
-

FOXTROT 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Danny DeVito, Martin Scorsese, 
Lauren Hutton, Tom Sea\'er 

Happy Birthday: Uncertainties might cloud your vision this year, but if you take a few steps back and ,·iew the big picture, everything will become quite clear. You can make your mo\·es as long as youdlan can.•· fully and should be assure that you haw th~ wher~withal tn follow up on \\'hat~\'C'r pl.1n5 Y~'ll put intn motion Thi..; is a vc.u to 111tl\"L' t'f..lr\\·ard, Sl' don't fall· into the ··poor me" syn· drome that will lead vou nowhNe. Your numbers: 5, H. 22; 31, 40, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Romance is likely to flourish. Partner­ships will make you happy, provided that you don't overreact to the advances made. Your outgoing nature will bring you popularity. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Op­porhmities will be el'ident; howel'~r. co-workers will be jealous of your achievements. Don't jump to conclu­sions or be too quick to retaliate. Enlist the aid of tlwse vou trw:t. 000 
GEMII'\1 (:'\1.1)' 21~June 201: Sud· ~.h.·n r~,.,m.1:lti,· inl~lttutiPlb m.r; t.lk•· !"llll ,,,... "'lii'J"~IT•l', Y~lU ~··::1 lll•'•;! Ill'\'; m.·tt~.·~ ~nd L':tj.1;· trh.'l\!.tl !'-timui.ltiPn i! \'lli.l i1'in ::.nnw inkrl·~ti11;: .1nd \\'lll'th­\\'l,jj~,.• P'~'UP~ oo:.~ 
CANCER (June 21-July 221: )\•u will ha\'l?' mr,re peO}"~l0 on ~·our 
domestic scene. Intellectual stimula­tion should be your intent; therefor~. consider playing games of mental skill with your friends. 00000 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Communi­cation with friends and relatives will prol'e to be fruitful. Opportunities for expanding your knowledge through awareness courses ,,·ill be conduci\'e to meeting new people. 00 


u I LOVE WH~T
" 
YOU'~E. DOING
"' ~ 


TO TI-\E. NOC>EL PRIZ.E 
DON.\ KNOW 5\-\0RT­
Kf..ND 50 I U~EO 
PIG LI\TIN TO 'S~V£. TIME. 
Birthday Baby: You are a real littl<' doer. Your enthusiasm and insight Wtll earn you the respect that you require in order to feel satisfied. Your ability to l><• original and yet to the point will lead you down pathways that are sure to bring you the results that you're searching for. You are determined and earnest and you don't waste time 
• OF INTEREST 

Important Habitat General Meeting Tonight -NO 
Habitat for Humanity will have its la.<>t general meeting 
of the semester tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the esc multi­
purpose room. All members are strongly encouraged 
ttend this important meeting. 
Dame Sweatshop Policy -Organizational 
to. develop student action committee against 
ups and NO's adherence to licensing (~ode of . uct will take place tonight at 7 p.m. at the esc 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Dis· cuss your intentions with superior> You can make major gains by doini' ,, job well. Opportunities to chang,• your position will increase rour income and bring you greater sell· esteem. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Pleasurv 
trips should be on your agenda. Con 
sider getting together with newfound 
friends, and n,m.1nce is ~urc.' to h'lllt'l\\ y,,ur d\.•:;in• (nr <ld\"c.'nhll'l' .1nd ('\fit,· nwnl will b,• l·uhill,•d 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You1 ideas regarding mon~y will be prot­itable. You should help older famih· members with their personal finances. Visit those who have not been well. Work quietly and behind· the-scenes. 000 
SAGJITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be very intuitive about investments. Follow your gut feeling> when dealing with people you don't know \·ery well. Social events will prove to be enlightening. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 191: "''''!' Y••ur ideas to vour<l'JI D<• tl•· l'h'(('5~.1ry grtllllh.i\\'ork o111d pn.op.1to· L,• pn•:-t'lll ~·,,ur \\'Prk l'u• .IW.lfl' !h:· '1-·':l~··~'n'· J11,1\ :,,. ::·. i:w t·• un.i,·t;l' 
\\'U oc.-.oo · 
AQL' \HIL:S t/an. 2tl-1 cb. lSI:·, .. l.Jn gain \\llu~tbk; 1-..rhn,·k·dbt' thn.'u~h thl." (ompan~· yuu kL'c.'p. Your popul.l:-­ity will gnn\" and pt.•ople in a po.:.ttinr. of authority ,,•ill h~lp you get wh.11 you want. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your ideas concerning your career will b,• favorable. You can make profession,1l changes if you wish. Visit friends wh,, can't get out very often. Consid('r making alterations to your hnm<' 00(,)00 

Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
.... 
C0/"\1"\ITTEE. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 1984 sci-li film a Snafu 1s Catherine the Great was one 16 Where AI Capone went to prison 11 AppC:!IIatc Ct'Uit orders 18 Use as a base 19 Clique member 20 Covering ground 21 G.O.P. consultant Roger 22 Name in 1995 news 24 Word with time or life 25 Moon ove1 lv1imcl1cn 
2611 keeps Rover from roving 28 "Tootsie" co-star for Dustin 29 Sault--Marie 30 Neighborhood sign word 31 ··Bal!leship Fotemkin·· locale 33 Gunk 34 Is afflicted by 35 Freshen 38 Desert Storm terror 40 To be, in Buenos Aires 43 Bring (out) 44 K1nd of heat 46 Presage 
47 1988 skating gold medalist G11stafson 

~···-~---·----···-----··--···­
M-15\'.'U, lO PH[ViOUS PUZZL[ 
49 Headline with an exclamation point 50 Spot 51 Befuddled 53 "West Side Story" song 
55 Sea cow 
56 Get set 
57 Swell/wac 56 M1ckey Mouse Club name 59 Common speeding speed 60 Agrees 
DOWN 
1 Currents 2 "Murder in the Cathedral'' writer 3 "Enchanted Places·· mr:mo" ~ ut":·j• ;~~: 4 llh•.: i''·!:: 
F1Ct.ltll1 .. s Go·s at111o? 6 No its. 01 
buts 1 Unpleasant folk 8 Choir section 9 "Tell --the 
judge" 1 o Certain garden flowers, for short 
11 Requires 
12 Salad greens 
13 Some 
assailants 14 Drink in a pitcher 
i'~.::..::l•: t·~ t• ,-,r~ G:l!~r\t·V 
object 26 Sacks 27 Causing ennu1 30 Actor Jacobi 32Lead-in for gum 33 Prepared for the 
prom 35 Now and then 36 Archeologist's 
period 37 Bygone dynasty name 38 Overwhelming amount 
3~1 Sum)n Bolivill·~ hirt11place 40 Glitterati 4'1 School 4:! Some transactions 4!; Sylvester's would-be prey 
4b CC:!Iebratcd Argentine w1iter 46 Protested. 1960's-style 50 Comic Bruce 52 Animation 54 Novelist Simpson 

'' Monday, November 17, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420-5656 (751: per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the boest of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762·1665. 

~--------~----~ 
'I 


• Kentucky quarterback 
• Denver Broncos improve to 

loses best friend and a team­
10-0 with a win over Kansas 

mate in tragic accident. 
City last night. 

p.I7 
p.I2

PORTS 
THE

page20 --------------------------------------------~ Tuesday, November 17, 1998
0 BSERVER 

• VOllEYBAll 
• HOCKEY 

Irish finish third in Big East 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sporrs Writer 
The Irish volleyball team missed its opportunity to win its fourth-straight regular sea­son Big East title, finishing final series of regular season conference matches, Notre Dame was tied for first place in the conference with Georgetown and Connecticut. The Hoyas and Huskies, how­ever, won out over the week­end, finishing their conference schedules tied at 10-1. The Irish dropped to a 9-2 confer­ence finish and 13-11 overall with the loss to the Mountaineers. 
Georgetown and Connecticut will receive byes in the first round of this weekend's Big East tournament as the top two seeds. Notre Dame, mean­while, will face a rematch against Pittsburgh, a team which the Irish narrowly defeated on Saturday. 
The Irish were never close in the match against West Virginia. They lost in three straight games 15-3, 15-5, 15­
7. 
"It was a combination of two things," Brown said. "They played very, very well, proba­bly their best match of the season. On the other hand, we played our weakest match. We really didn't perform any skill well." 
Notre Dame was also short on firepower, hitting .035 to the Mountaineers' .333. West Virginia had 41 digs in the match, compared to Notre Dame's 25. 
Nikki Hardy and Megan Porter led the attack for West Virginia with 10 kills apiece, while freshman outside hitter Marcie Hornback's seven kills 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 14 

-
third in the conference after a loss to the West Virginia Mountaineers on Sunday. 
"It really wasn't a competitive match at all," 
.---~----, 

Girton 

Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown said. "They just came out and out-played us in every facet of the game." 
Heading into last weekend's 

• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Murphy makes early impact 
Freshman has begun to I i ve up to expectations 
By JOEY CAVA TO Associare Sporrs Ediror 
Notre Dame fans have heard the name Troy Murphy ever since he signed a letter of intent to play for John Macleod's Irish last fall. 
This past weekend they finally got a look at what one of MacLeod's most highly tout­ed recruits could do against Division I competition. 
Murphy's outside touch, some rim-rocking jams and 35 points in two games showed fans what all the talk was about. 
"We have high expectations for him." MacLeod said. 
-· "Based on these first couple of games, he's going to fulfill those expectations." 
A loss to Miami of Ohio and a last-minute victory over Yale was quite a first weekend for the Irish, and in that context, Murphy enjoyed his first taste of college basketball. 
"It was interesting," Murphy said. "The preparation that goes into the games, we go over scouting reports, it's totally different from high school when you just show up and play the game. It was a lot like I expected it to be. It was high intensity and it was a lot of fun." 
The Irish looked poised to upset Miami in the season opener Friday, but the Redhawks proved why they are knocking on the door of the top 25 as they pulled away from the Irish in the second half. 
Notre Dame got out to a big

-

By TED BASSANI Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's hockey team is among the nation's top 10 this season because of the depth of its roster. one that boasts versatile and talented players. 
Players like sophomore left wing Dan Carlson. 
Carlson's freshman season with Notre Dame was a rag­ing success. He was one of only three freshmen to play in a1141 games in 1997-98, and one of just eight players overall. 
By season's end, Carlson ranked fourth on the team with 11 goals, tied for fourth with 17 assists, and sixth in points with 28. 
Carlson also joined veteran teammates Benoit Cotnoir and Ben Simon as the three Irish players who tallied three shorthanded goals on the season -this in addition to Carlson's three power play goals. 
The mere fact that Carlson notched six special teams goals indicates that, even as a freshman, he earned his coach's confidence and saw plenty of playing time on the power play and the penalty kilL 
According to head coach Dave Poulin, Carlson is one of the team's bPst th rec or four penalty kiiJnrs, mostly thanks 
lead over Yale, but hung 64-62 crowd, it's totally different to his vision. 
after a Bulldog barrage of than anything I've ever experi­"Dan's strPngth that 
three-pointers. enced in my life." becomes obvious in penalty "It was like a roller coaster Murphy's mantle back in killing is his hockey sense, 
of emotions," Murphy said. Morristown, N.J., is packed his ability to see the ice," 
"You're up then you're down, with high school accolades Poulin said. 
you're tired, then you have a Cliches like fearlessness 
lot of energy. You play off the and relentlessness can be 
see MURPHY/ page 17 used to describe Carlson's overall game. But it is better said that he is a force on the ice because of his aggressive­ness, especially on the forecheck. 

Carlson's 5-foot-1 0 frame might not suggest to most that he play a blue-collar game in the corners and on the boards, giVfm that many CCHA defensemen are at least four to five inches taller than he. But, that's what makes his game valuable to his team -he creates of'fen­sive chances on the forecheck by. forcing turnovers in the offensive zone. 
"I like to go into the cor­ners, and even though most of the defenscmcn are bigger than I am, I like to go in and force the play," Carlson said. 
To say Carlson's playing career prior to Notn~ Dame was quite distinguished would be an understatement. Dan was a three-time letter­winner at Edina High School in Minnesota, where he cur­rently holds the school record with 191 career points. 
In his senior season, he was a finalist for the Mr. llockny award, and he led his tnam to a 1-0 victory in the statn final against Duluth l·:ast by scoring the game's only goaL 
"I watched him totally dominal!~ Minnesota high school hockey," said Poulin. "llis l!md!~rship was evident then in the way he played; he's a complete player." 
For some players, the adjustment from high school hockey to college hockey can 
see HOCKEY I page 18 

vs. LSU, vs. Western Michigan, at Vanderbilt, {~ November 21, 1:30 p.m. ·~ November 20, 7 p.m. November 21, 7:30p.m.
SPORTS 
ATA 

NCAA Second Round, at Butler,
vs. Toledo, 
-

vs. Nebraska, November 18, 7 p.m. 
November 18, 7 p.m. 
'..II

GLANCE November 21, TBA 




