
Wednesday, February 4, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 84 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Survey: Notre Dame freshmen more involved 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY high school, so ... they're more likely to First Year of Studies, also attributes this At other institutions of higher learn­Assistant News Editor be concerned about academics and phenomenon to the competitive admis­ing, this is not often the case. involvement in extracurricular activities sions process, commenting that those "In my Spanish and calculus classes, 
Despite the reported national trend [ i n students people don't apply themselves. Many that college freshmen are less interested college],"said who are are happy if they get a 'C'," said Ebony in schoolwork and involvement in col­K e v i n 
accepted are Smith, a freshman at Ohio State lege life in general, an American Council Rooney, for­among the University. "People don't show up for
'IFYOU CONSIDER NOTRE 

on Education survey shows that Notre mer director most stu-class and then they wonder why theyDAME STUDENTS AS A
Dame's first-year students are consis­of admis­dious of don't do well. For many people, being tently more active than their peers at sions. GROUP, THEIR ACADEMIC PER­applicants. just average is great." other institutions, both in academics Rooney also "If they're Notre Dame freshmen also pursue vol­FORMANCE IS WELL ABOVE 
and extracurriculars. noted that interested in unteering and extracurricular activities The survey found 74 percent of Notre admissions is THE NATIONAL AVERAGE IN doing well, more often than their counterparts, the Dame freshmen to be "interested in a somewhat [students) study reported. While 95 percent of ND
HIGH SCHOOL.'

their studies," a term applied to stu­"self-selective must be freshmen answered that they participat­dents who spent six or more hours per process KEVIN ROONEY attentive to ed in service activities in high school, week on homework in high school. Only because the DIRECTOR, FIRST YEAR OF STUDIES study habits only 73 percent of national applicants 34 percent of students nationally students that classes were involved. Of those, a projected 77 claimed the same. choose to here are dif­percent will continue volunteer work 
"If you consider Notre Dame students apply to ficult, so during their college years at Notre as a group. their academic performance Notre Dame tend to be of a high caliber. they must apply themselves from the is well above the national average in Louise Litzinger, assistant dean of the beginning." see FRESHMEN I page 7 
Takin' it to the streets ... 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
J
unior Tina Potthoff hands out red AIDS awareness ribbons to students at South Dining Hall yesterday. The Student Union Board was handing out the ribbons as a part of AIDS Week. The activities for the week include a presentation by Jeanne White-Ginder, mother of AIDS victim Ryan White, and a public display of a section of the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt. 

.,CAMPAIGN TRAIL This week. The Observer will print articles about all 9 tickets running for student body president and vice president.  
Peter Cesaro/Andrea Selak  
Kevin Corrigan/Brian Doherty  
Michele Costello/Adrian Cuellar  
.... Tim Fitt~imons/Brian Murphy  
Alfonso Kennard/Walker Candelario SEEP. 3 FOR STORIES ABOUT TODAY'S FEATURED CANDIDATES  

By MELANIE GARMAN Saint Mary's Assisrant News Editor 
The classrooms in Madeleva Hall on the Saint Mary's campus will be in use an extra day next week, filled with young, inquiring minds -not of college students, but of children between the ages of two and six. 
This Sunday marks the third bien­nial Storybook Festival sponsored by the College, in conjunction with the Early Childhood Development Center. The festival is designed for children and their families to cele­brate together the rewards of read­ing. 

"Books create worlds which we enter to learn. to feel, to grow, and, r---:----::::-::-----------------, simply to have fun," reads the festi-
Storybook Festival returns to SMC 
• IN MEMORIAM 
June Davie Dies 
Word has been received of the death of.June Davie, mother of Notre Dame head football coach Bob Davie. 
Mrs. Davie died on Monday of a sttoke in her home in Moon Township, Pa. 
She w rs 
old. 
val's mission statement. "Reading is 
valuable throughout a lifetime. But the impact of reading to children is lifelong and life altering." 
More than 2,000 area children and their families attended the first Storybook Festival, held four years ago during the Saint Mary's Sesquicentennial Celebration. In 1996, the Storybook Festival 
• SECURITY BEAT 


Local man arrested for three thefts 
By HEATHER COCKS News Editor 

A local resident faces a felony charge after Notre Dame Security/Police appre­hended him Saturday in con­nection with three campus thefts, according to assistant director Chuck Hurley. 
Christopher Fallon, 40, con­fessed to breaking into the poor boxes in the crypt of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart; he also admitted to attempt­ing the same crime earlier in January. 
"When our officer was investigating the poor-box theft, he spotted Fallon in LaFortune Student Center and recognized him," Hurley said. "Fallon is not allowed to set foot on campus because of a 
see SECURITY I page 7 

received national recognition when it was awarded a silver medal by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education. 
The afternoon features a celebrity reader room, 17 storybook rooms, storytelling, music and dance per­formances in Carroll Auditorium. Some of the guests include Marilou Eldred, president of Saint Mary's; Stephen Luecke, mayor of South Bend; Denise Keuhner, musician with the South Bend Symphony; Mike Hoffman, meteorologist for WNDU-16; and Todd Schurz, editor and publisher of the South Bend Tribune. 
"I have two young children that my wife and I read to frequently," Schurz said. "The festival is a shared experience which allows children to develop both academ­ically and intellectually." 
Along with nine student clubs and programs from Saint Mary's, spon­sors include the Early Childhood Development Center, the South Bend Tribune, United Limo, Inc., and Barnes & Noble Booksellers. 
As a special treat for the children to encourage continuous reading, Barnes & Noble will be giving away books throughout the day. 
"I attended the last festival as a parent with my children, and I was very impressed with the turnout and the events of the day," Keuhner said. "Children need to get as much exposure to the fun and fantasy of reading, as well as developing their imaginations." 
As a service to the community, the Storybook Festival is free of charge by ticket only. 
Members of the community may obtain tickets at Barnes & Noble,· Creative Teaching, Community Coordinated Child Care, Osco Drug Stores, Makielski's, Saint Mary's Box Office and United Health Services. 

,~~·~--~------~--~-~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 4, 1998 



(, 7.,:.~~.d."~ utside the Dome 
""\_ .. -"'ur'"\~

V ., Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Study reviews political opinions of black college alumni 
~ 
•f 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


R.I.P. Bridget 
McGuire's 
Bridget McGuire's Filling Station is no more. What is an underaged drinker to do? 
After this weekend's infamous raid, it is unlikely the bar will see the light of day again. What a shame. 
Afl'ectionately known Rachel Torres as "Bridget's," or "Club 
Saine Mary's Accenr 
Bridget" by those who 
Editor
frequented the tavern, it was a rite of passage. 

Sure, it was a hole in the wall, and it smelled kind of funky, and its floor glistened with a mysteriously sticky goo, and it could get more crowded than a Titanic screening, but we loved it just the same. Well, we loved to hate it, anyway. After all, it was BRIDGET'S. 
Where else could throngs of underaged drinkers flock to dance atop splintered picnic tables, spill liquids on classmates, and get stepped on? It was a haven on Thursday nights for stressed-out students to take time out and enjoy the company of friends. 


You know the drill-wait outside in hopes you'll get in with little hassle. You memorized the information on that ID so intensely that nobody could doubt that you really were 28 years old, and 6-feet tall with brown hair. Even though you were only 18 years old, and 5-foot-6 with glow-in-the-dark red hair, you were still in like flint. This may be an exagger­ation, but not much. You could step inside the sweaty, smoke-infested dungeon. You were in a bar. You could drink. 
Or not. Even without the liquor, Bridget's still had a draw. It was the place to see and be seen. All the "cool kids" were there. Why? Because Bridget's was a step away from the crowded dorm party and toward the experi­ence of a "real bar," where "Oh, What a Night" is the anthem. Well, this is South Bend, after all. 
Bridget's was like a middle school. I mean this as more than a joke about the age of the people who went there. I also imply that it was a step between childhood and adulthood. In this land or college, where students are encouraged to bridge gaps betWeen youth and maturity, Bridget's facilitated transition. 
Thihk of Bridget's as a mere appendage of the dorm party. It's not as though students at Notre Dame don't drink on campus. Who could raise a demeaning eyebrow when this consumption is taken a few yards beyond the actual campus? 
I guess plenty of people can. It's against the law. But, here's the rub: Bridget's is a tradi­tion. Student<> would like to see the 25 years of good times rise above the iron fist of the law. Sorry, folks. It doesn't look like it will happen. 
Now, to answer my earlier question. What is an underaged drinker to do? You could just wait until the actual weekend rolls around and drink in the dorms-that seems to work okay since you'll just drink in moderation anyway. I Let me give you the benefit of the doubt and think that nobody actually wants to drink until they are sloppy drunk.) Well, you could always wait until you turn 21 and go to the "big kid" bars like The Backer and Senior Bar. There's not a big difference, but there's a difference just the same. You could do a few more hours of studying, call your family, or take up that hobby you've been putting ofT for so long. Sure, you'll miss Bridget's, but take heart -I don't think you'll miss it much. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY's STAFF 
News Graphics Christine Kraly Jon King Allison Koenig Production Matt Loughran Betsy Baker 
Sports Lab Tech Anthony Bianco Mike Boland Viewpoint Tara Churik Accent Rachel Torres 
Tile Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 4. 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1998 AccuWealher, lnc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa AssociiiiBd PrtJSS 
4,~,~9.~@ {) ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Atlanta 51 29 Helena 39 20 Phoenix 58 46 Boise 45 30 Houston 65 41 Reno 43 24 Chicago 36 24 Las Vegas 53 39 San Diego 57 49 Dallas 60 38 Miami 70 48 Tampa 63 40 Denver 44 26 NewYork 38 32 Wash.D.C. 40 32 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Black graduates of presti­gious colleges are more politi­cally radical than blacks in 
general, a recent study has found. 
The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education, through a mail-in survey, found that among the seven highest­ranked U.S. colleges, black alumni had views that differed greatly from those of the general black popula­tion. The journal would not disclose which colleges they deemed to be "prestigious." 
The journal found that 77.1 per­cent of respondents held the belief that the white students they went to school with felt they were mentally inferior. One respondent, a black attorney, felt the white students' alleged view, when held after col­lege, is advantageous to the black student because the white adversary will drop his guard and provide him with an opportunity to "move in for the kill." 
At least 65 percent of the total respondents believe that their eco­nomic opportunities have been restricted due to the color of their skin. 
This survey contradicts the com­monly held belief that most young people tend to become more politi­cally conservative as they advance in age and move up the educational and economic ladder, according to the journal. 
UC Berkeley faculty and students said they were not surprised with the study's findings. 
Percy C. Hintzen, chair of the African American studies depart­ment, said that black students tend 
to become disenchanted. 
"African Americans and all 
persons who are black who 
have reached the level of sophistication of attending a univer­sity become disillusioned as they advance in their studies because the university setting, more than any­where else, replicates the idea of racial exclusion, racial privilege, racism and biased understanding of racial superiority," Ilintzen said. 
"The university continues to be pri­marily male, primarily white, so it continues to hold onto racial views of the nineteenth century, especially the ideas of scientific racism," Hintzen added. "Academia is an institution that reinforces notions of hierarchy and gives these notions hierarchy." 
Some students also felt that their experience at UC Berkeley has liber­alized their views. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Police charge student in crime 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
. A Kirkland House resident, Joshua Elster '00, was arrested Saturday on charges that he raped and battered an undergraduate woman. Elster, 19, was arraigned yes­terday morning on three counts of rape and two counts of assault and battery, according to Harvard University Police Department [HUPDJ spokesperson Peggy McNamara. "From the dean on down, the first thoughts are to do what's best for the victim," said Harvard spokesperson Joe Wrinn. A source close to the woman said she is recovering from physical injuries, but "emotional scars from this type of incident might never heal." The victim, whose name was not released, first reported the incident to HUPD on Thursday, McNamara said. The arrest took place at 4:15 
p.m. on Saturday, according to McNamara. Elster was taken from Kirkland House. McNamara said information about the case was reported in the HUPD blotter, a public record listing all incidents requiring police attention; each incident is assigned an index number. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
More students to receive tuition waiver 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
As federal courts chip away at race-based college pro­grams. university officials will consider broadening crite­ria this month for a tuition waiver that now targets non­resident minority students. While university officials have said they are not altering the policy because of any legal challenges, proposed changes would lessen the school's legal vulnerability. "We think we're doing this for the best of educational reasons," said Robert Bruininks, executive vice president and provost. He said the proposed changes will continue to use race, but it will not be the only factor in granting the waiver. Created in 1990 to support the school's goals of increasing racial diversity, the policy offers nonresident students of color in-state tuition rates. About 850 undergraduates and graduates receive the waiver at an annual cost of $4.3 million, about one-fourth of all the university's waiver programs. 

• COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Police arrest two for CSU vandalism 
FT. COLLINS, Colo. 

Two men were arrested over the past two days in con­junction with the Jan. 29 vandalism of the Islamic Center that left some local Muslims afraid for their families. Jed Schoedel, a 23-year-old Colorado State University stu­dent, was arrested at 7:15p.m. at his house on Sunday, said Rita Davis of the Fort Collins Police Department. David Schlueter, who turns 22 today, was arrested at around 1 p.m. yesterday at his place of employment, Davis said. A witness had observed the activity and con­tacted the Fort Collins Police Department on Saturday morning, which led to the arrests of the suspects. Investigating officers found that the suspects were drunk and shooting fireworks in the neighborhood when they saw the building, Davis said. They allegedly dragged a cement parking block 50 feet and rammed it through the glass front door of the Islamic Center, 900 Peterson St. It was the second time in two years that the Islamic Center has been vandalized. 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN fLORIDA 
Funding needed for minority programs 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Celebration of Black Emphasis Month begins Friday, but this month's events could be the last in USF's histo­ry. John Parks, chairman for the USF Black Emphasis Month Committee, said this may be the linal celebration of Black Emphasis Month. "Our funding for this month has been drastically curtailed," he said. "We get a real modest amount from the university -an amount just to say it has given us something." According to Parks, the committee received approximately $2,000 for program events for the month of February. He said the university says it supports minority programs, but it is not funding diversity groups. 'The university is not very sensitive to issues of minorities," he said. "It needs to really support it. It should not say it is for diversity and African Americans and not fund it. To me, that is just giving lip service." 
~ 
I 
I 
i 
i 


• TIM FITZSIMONS/BRIAN MURPHY 


D.C. roommates bring humor to campaign 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Associate News Editor 
Tim Fitzsimons and Brian Murphy may be run­
ning for student body president and vice president, 
but they still get the giggles when they talk about 
se·same Street. 
Combining "visionary" goals for the millennium 
with a passionate and fun approach to student 
government are the tactics Murphy and Fitzsimons 
plan to use in their quest for office. Both candi­
dates have been heavily involved in dorm p'olitics, 
and see this campaign as the next logical step 
toward implementing their goals. 
"We see both immediate needs and future 
needs," said Murphy, who is running for vice pres­
ident. "We want to think about what the student at 
Notre Dame will need into the 21st century." 
Some of the highlights of the Fitzsimons/Murphy 
platform include a wider spectrum for the 
Women's Resource Center that would include 
activities in men's dorms, a focus on Notre Dame's 
disabled students as part of minority functions, 
and a "Millennium Committee" that would focus 
on the long-term needs of the Notre Dame student. 
"If you think about this in simple terms, our time 
in office will be done in April of 1999," Murphy 
said, describing the committee. "Why should we 
wait until fall 1999 to start on these projects? We ,want to start this committee so we can be commit­ted to student needs on into the 21st century." Fitzsimons agreed, "This isn't about what we want, but what the students feel like they need." 
And both Fitzsimons and Murphy think they 
have the capacity to hear the voice of the students. 
The two candidates have been separately involved 

on dorm councils since freshman year, and this year Fitzsimons and Murphy serve as the presi­dents of their respective dorms, Sorin and Keenan. 
"As an impressionable freshman, I thought that the best way to really get involved was dorm coun­cil," Fitzsimons said. "It was the most immediate way to have an influence." 
Although the two were elected hall presidents last year, they did not really forge a friendship until they lived together while interning in Washington, D.C., this summer. 
"It is a really funny story, actually," Fitzsimons said. "We are both Hesburgh Program majors, and we had our intro class together." 
"But we sat on opposite sides of the room," Murphy interjected. "It was not until a mutual friend told us that we both had internships in Washington that we really spoke." 
Both Murphy and Fitzsimons emphasized how quickly their personalities seemed to click. 
"The real clincher was moving in together on June 1 after only speaking on the phone a few times," Fitzsimons said. "Something with Murph just seemed right. We got to be really good friends amazingly fast." 
The true test of their friendship, according to Fitzsimons, was living in Washington with only an unpaid internship. 
"That definitely taught me to be more frugal and independent," he said. "That was a zero-protein diet; we couldn't afford meat or anything like that. It was too expensive." 
"We couldn't even buy milk!" Murphy said. 
The two survived the summer and came back to 
see FITZSIMONS-MURPHY I page 6 
• BRANDON WIUJAMS/JUIJE REISING 
Left-handed, butin their 'right minds' 
By DAVID ZACHRY News Writer 
Brandon Williams and Julie Reising think they've found a good team. 
A good football team, that is. 
"If we're elected, the football team will win the national championship next year," Williams said. 
Williams, who confesses to being an adamant "Braveheart" fan, and Reising, who mixes at least four different cereals in the dining hall for break­fast, believe that the Williams/Reising ticket is unique because of a shared personal trait. 
Because they are both left-handed, they ;1.re con­vinced that their ticket is the one to choose because, as Reising states, "we are the only ones in our right minds." 
Williams, a junior, and his sophomore running mate. Reising, entered the race for student body president and vice president with the students' concerns in mind. Among the issues they plan on tackling are student communications and campus activities. 
"1 feel bad for the students who were busted in Bridget's," uttered presidential candidate, Student Senate and Campus Life Council member Brandon Williams. "The court and school should be lenient especially considering the fact that if there was 
more exciting nightly events on this campus, We genuinely care about this school and want to "Accessibility for everyone" is their motto and the maybe the underclassmen would not have to go off make sure it has the best leaders and student gov­Williams!Reising ticket is positive that this prospec­campus to bars for a fun time." ernment possible," Williams added. tive web page could only help alleviate some of the 
This issue and many others are constantly on the The Williams/Reising ticket adamantly supports communication problems that they say plague the mind of Williams and Reising, also a member of the and hopes to create an interactive student govern­current administration. Student Senate and former freshman class vice ment web page emphasizing communication Williams and Reising believe the most important
president. Yesterday, Williams and Reising made between the student body and their leaders. issue on campus is race and gender relations. their platform and opinions public when they dis­"I don't feel that the students are being heard," Williams cited last year's Bookstore Basketball cussed their upcoming candidacy. Reising said. tournament and the Men About Campus controver­Williams and Reising are quick to point out that The web page would include a plethora of infor­sies as prime examples of the problems that the their feelings about Notre Dame are sincere and mation detailing future and current events on the University has with race and gender relations. heartfelt. Notre Dame campus and in the surrounding areas, "We don't want people to think that we are fake. 
such as Chicago. see WILLIAMS-RIESING I page 6 


page 4 
' 




omens 
ews 
Wednesday, February 4, 1998 

THE IMAGES OF WOMEN IN POPULAR 
Profs discuss dilem01a of body images 
By ALLISON KOENIG on the body of a professional model, as protection for them from something Associate News Editor a widely-recognized example of the they feel." technique. She pointed out the weight changes 
By virtue of being white, female, "It's a perfect example of how they in some rape victims that occurs after between the ages of 18 and 22, mem­can chop women's bodies apart to con­the assault. "Many put on weight. They bers of the upper-middle class and struct the 'perfect body'," Alexander could be overeating, or it could be attendants of institutions with high said. more of a goal; 'if I'm heavy I'll never academic and personal expectations, Alexander attributes the use, or per­be raped again."' the women of Saint Mary's and Notre haps misuse, of computer technology Both Harmeyer and Alexander men­Dame are at an extremely high risk of to alter women's appearances to a tioned a change in the general public's developing eating disorders. capitalistic drive. awareness of the issues as a method to 
The aforementioned characteristics "It all feeds into the notion that we help prevent negative body imaging qualify the typical woman who suffers have to be or look perfect, and in order and related problems, such as eating from a negative body image, which can to be perfect we have to buy things," disorders. lead to a variety of eating disorders. she said. "Media imaging has a lot of power 
"It's as though we skimmed the While Harmeyer acknowledged over us. We must be media literate and entire United States population for the media and cultural influence on learn to deconstruct images so they women at highest risk for this disease women's perceptions of their bodies, don't overpower us," Alexander said. and had them come to school here," "This is not just a gender issue; it has said Ella Jlarmeyer, an assistant pro­to do with race, class and other issues fessor of nursing at Saint Mary's. as well. We need to break apart this
'WE BUY INTO A MEDIA
Harmeyer, who teaches a women's construction and see what is really health class to non-nursing majors, IDEAL THAT IS VERY going on." believes that a cause of eating disor­"The body has a different place to be
HARD TO ACHIEVE ••• TO A CER­
ders comes from a society-wide stan­for everyone," Harmeyer stated. "We dard of thin bodies. TAIN DEGREE IT'S IMPOSSIBLE.' all have differing physiological con­"Our culture has a thing about being struction, and there's no recognition of 
.

thinner," she said. "We buy into a that in the culture." 
ELLA HARMEYER,
media ideal that is very hard to "I don't mean to bash the media in achieve ... to a certain degree it's ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF NURSING this issue, because we are all impossible." involved," Alexander said. 
Harmeyer discussed an airbrushing she also brought up the personal side "The media is like a bookstore: if you technique applied to photos which is of body imaging. "Anorexics do not see randomly pull a book off the shelf, it used by most major magazine publica­themselves the way they actually are, could be a bad book. But there a lot of ticms, especially those of the women's much less in comparison to the ideal," good things in a bookstore, and like­beauty genre. she said. wise, there are a lot of ·good things in 
"Most people don't have a grip on the "An anorexic's perception of body the media," Alexander added. fact that this happens," she said. image is like battling with a fun-house "l think that, in general, we live in a 
Susan Alexander, an assistant pro­mirror; the image is not at all accu­culture that is not very accepting of fessor of sociology at Saint Mary's, rate. They see fat. We see starving," things that deviate from the estab­agreed with I I armeyer about many she added. lished norm," Harmeyer said. images of women in popular culture. Harmeyer also believes that some Elaborating on that point, Alexander 
"fThese photos) are not real, and women develop eating disorders as a pointed out that body imaging prob­most people don't know that," she subconscious means of avoiding lems do not occur exclusively within said. puberty and womanhood. When a the female population. 
Alexander, who has extensively stud­womC).n in those stages stops eating, "Eating disorders and plastic ied Jean Kilbourne's research on the she often loses not only weight, but her surgery are both increasing for men," media's construction of unattainable period, bodily hair, and the lack of food she said. "Rogaine commercials didn't images for women, also discussed the will also stunt the appearance of pop up until about three years ago ­practice of some graphics profession­breasts and hips. "It's as though some where did they come from?" als to actually splice women's body women don't want to enter into the "Make people feel uncomfortable parts and create entirely fabricated adult body image," she said. about their body or their personality, bodies. She cited the publicity shots for She also speculates that there is "an and they'll buy stuff. Capitalism is an the movie "Pretty Woman," in which aggregate of overeaters motivated by underlying force to the body imaging Julia Hoberts' head was superimposed something subconscious ... and fat is a problem," Alexander concluded. 
Advertising, models distort female psyche 
By ANNE SCHNEEMAN "I feel sick about myself after seeing these stick thin News Writer women. Most of the time I'm not even aware of why sud­denly I'm feeling rotten. It makes me unmotivated and even 
College women arc facing a problem. Three-fourths of all crabby." American college women believe they are overweight. But How many women can identify with this statement? by medical standards less than one-fourth actually are. Women have coined phrases like "fat days" and " skinny Apparently, how young women look has little to do with how clothes" versus "fat clothes." Saint Mary's senior Maureen they think they look. Kobza said her first goal isn't to be attractive, but "even 
A recent study done at Arizona State University looked at though all I want is someone to know me for me, I still am how "thin" imagery from TV and magazines affected very conscious of my body and how l look." women. The study found that the more exposure women What women don't seem to understand yet is that the had to "thin" imagery, the more likely they would believe bodies that are glorified in the theaters and on the maga­that women must be slim to be attractive, which led to zine pages aren't realistic reflections of what most women's stronger dissatisfaction with their own bodies. bodies naturally look like. 
What damage can a little advertising do? According to The fashionable body evolves as fast as fashion itself. recent statistics, plenty. The average American watches 30 What defines a beautiful body depends strongly on when hours of TV pnr week. The average American also spends one lives. 11 0 hours per year reading magazines. This adds up to The quintessential beauty of the 1880s was Lillian Russel, 1,500 exposures to various advertisements per day. The a tall actress who at the height of her fame weighed over modern idealized body is 5-foot-9 and 110 pounds. 200 pounds 
The problem is that the average woman is 5-foot-4 and By the 1920s the boyish Flapper dictated what defined an 142 pounds. The idealized body has been normalized, and attractive figure. now often women feel that anything different is unsatisfac­Marilyn Monroe, sex symbol of the 1950s, would easily be tory. Only 5 percent of college-age women actually measure deemed "fat" by today's Kate Moss culture. up. But by 1967 and the Twiggy craze, America was back to 
This leaves the majority of women striving for a body that frail, bony, unattainable bodies. is almost impossible to achieve. It also helps to explain why The 1980s were typified by the exercise craze and with it 20 percent of college-age women have eating disorders. the strong, lean body of Elle MacPherson. 
The problem comes from the fact that the ideal body isn't Not everyone loses when the trends demand skinny bod­defined individually; it's decided socially. An anonymous ies: the diet industry has tripled its income in the last 10 senior said that she actually felt better about herself after a years from a $10 billion industry to a $33.3 billion industry. week or so of not watching TV. In the next five years, it's expected to reach $50 billion. 
CULTURE 

This photo was originally printed as an adver­tisement for Calvin Klein underwear. 
The Truth About Popular Ideas of Size · 
• 
3/4 of college women believe that they are overweight, but by medical definition, less then 1/4 actually are. 

• 
The average women is 5'4" and 142 lbs. The "ideal" body generated by popular culture would be 5'9" and 11 0 lbs. 

• 
Only 5°/o of American women have the 5'9" and 11 0 lbs. "ideal" body. 

• 
Thinner is not necessarily healthier. A 5'4" women who weighs 150 lbs. and works out 3 times a week is healthier then. a 5'4" women who weighs 120 lbs. and is a couch potato, in terms of longevity, cardiovascular health, and strength. 

• 
62 million American women wear a size 12 and over. However these women's sizes and shapes are barely reflected in the media. 



• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Clinton announces program for nuclear improvements 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. 

In a high-tech lab, President Clinton watched a simulation of a nuclear warhead accident Tuesday and announced a $517 million drive to build faster supercomput­ers to ensure the reliability of America's nuclear weapons. "Of all the remarkable things these supercomputers will be able to accomplish," Clinton said, "none will be more important than helping to make sure the world is safe from the threat of nuclear weapons." A clay after unveiling his 1999 spending blueprint, Clinton came to Albuquerque for a campaign-style rally. Clinton spoke of presenting the first bal­anced budget in 30 years and challenging Congress to fix Social Security. He also stressed his budget's commitment to increasing sponding for scientific research and development. The $517 million pro­gram Clinton announced is intended to build computers that can perform 30 tril­lion caleulations per second by 2001 and 
I 00 trillion by 2004. Scientists told Clinton faster computers are needed to understand 
·~ the physics and chemistry governing the performance of nuelear weapons, allowing experts to predict changes in their safety and reliability. 
Egypt refuses to endorse 
U.S. military strike 
CAIRO, Egypt 

Egypt's foreign minister declared Tuesday that "all options are still on the table" for dealing with Iraq, but he declined to endorse a U.S. military strike. At a joint news confer­ence with Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said Egypt's diplomatic efforts would continue. Arab leaders who met with Albright strongly agreed with the United States that Iraq must comply with U.N. resolutions. But most cleelined to back U.S. military action. "We believe we have all the cooperation we need across the board," Albright said" after meet­ing with the emir, Sheik !sa bin Salman AI Khalifa. In Washington Tuesday, Defense Secretary William Cohen, Gen. Henry H. Shelton, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Sandy Berger, President Clinton's national security adviser, briefed senators privately on the Iraqi strike plans. After the briefing, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, said members were concerned whether U.S. forces could "achieve the results we are seeking." He said time is running out and Clinton would decide when diplomatic efforts should end. House Speaker Newt Gingrich's ollice issued a statement "obviously declin­ing" Iraq's invitation for a congressional del­egation to visit palaces so far denied to U.N. weapons inspectors. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1,666.34

8160.35 
+13.45 


NYSE: 523.00 
+ 13.45 
S&P 500: I 005.99 

+52.57 +4.72 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
q>MI'r)NY OrKER %CHANGE iGA!N PRICE 
BOREALIS TECH BRl5 40.00 1.00 3.50 EVF.RF5T MEDICAL EVMD 40.00 0.625 2.1875 CLEAN 111F.,EL CDTI 36.59 0.9375 3.50 MARGO NURSERY MRGO .U.33 0.625 2.50 STARCRAFf CORP STCR 25.00 0.50 2.50 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
SCICLONE PHARM SCLN 24.00 0.75 2.375 CTC COMMUNICATION CI'TL 23.86 1.9688 6.2815 COI'YTELE INC COPY 22.73 0.625 2.125 MER TELEMANAGMEMT MTSLF 22.58 0.875 3.00 PSW TECH PSWT 21.95 2.25 8.00 
page 5 

AFP Photo D escuers survey the wreckage ofa cable car gondola that fell after its cable was severed by a U.S. military aircraft at the Italian ~ki resort of Cavalese yesterday. 


20 die after plane slices cable 
AssociATED PRESs 

TRENTO, Italy 
A U.S. military plane on a low-level training flight over the snowy Alps sliced through a cable-car line, send­ing a gondola full of skiers crashing hundreds of feet to the ground. At least 20 people inside the car died. 
The car was flattened by the 240-to­300-foot drop. It "opened up like a cardboard box," one police official said. 
Officials at the U.S. air base in Aviano in northern Italy, where the Marine EA-6B Prowler was based, said all low-level missions by U.S. mil­itary aircraft in Italy have been sus­pended. 
President Clinton, on a visit to New Mexico, issued a statement saying he was "deeply saddened" by the acci­dent and that the United States will cooperate fully with the Italian gov­ernment to find out what happened. 
The pilot and his three-member crew returned safely to Aviano, 60 miles east of the resort, said Brig. Gen. Tim Peppe, commander of the base's resident 31st fighter wing. The plane sustained minor tail damage. 
Peppe, speaking at a news confer­ence at Aviano, did not speculate on a cause, though he discounted engine trouble. 
RAJ state television showed the crushed wreckage of the yellow cable car resting on the snow below its route. The cable trailed off like a twisted thread, but officials would not say how far from the car the cable had been cut. 
The line's other gondola was head­ing down at the time and the accident left it stuck and dangling. Rescuers pulled out its operator, the only per­son aboard. 
In Washington, U.S. Defense Secretary William Cohen told the Senate Armed Services Committee that the pilot "was apparently unaware that he had struck a cable or injured anyone." 
Base officials said American pilots fly dozens of training missions over Italy eyery day. The plane is a surveil­lance aircraft attached to the NATO force overseeing the Bosnian peace. 
The accident occurred at 3:15 p.m. local time under sunny skies at a ski resort in the Val di Fassa area of the Dolomite Mountains near Trento. The cable car was traveling from the town of Cavalese, 80 miles northeast of Trento, to the top of Cermis mountain, site of a popular local ski resort. 
The cabin had just begun its ascent from the base at Cavalese, at an alti­tude of about 3,000 feet, and was heading toward a mid-station when it fell, said Alessia Dezugliana, an employee of the Alpe Cermis ski area. 
"You couldn't guess the shape of the car anymore," said Andrea Russo, a police official who arrived at the scene an hour after the accident. 
"All the four walls of the car had opened up like a cardboard box. The bodies were all laying beneath the sheet metals. Most of them were torn apart," he said. 
The scene was near the spot where a 1976 accident on the same gondola lift killed 42 people. The accident was blamed on operator error. 
The accident drew an immediate political response in Italy. 
The Communist Refoundation party, which traditionally opposes the American military presence and sup­plies the government a majority in Parliament, renewed its call to close the Aviano base. 
----..-.........--...--~--...,-------------......,....,...~·..,---,----......., ----.-~....--.--~( -~~-­
0

~~~~----------·---··--...:uz~~---..-------......---.....,___.......,.____.....,.~-r 
page.6 The Observer· THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL Wednesday, February 4, 1998 
discover other cultures and feels the Williams/Reising societies. ticket can offer a more repre­
WilliaDis­
They believe these work­sentative administration. shops can help campus race "People sometimes forget relations dramatically. that this campus is almost 50

Reising 
Not all of Williams and percent women. Women need Reising's issues are political. to be better represented in the continued from page 3 They also want to see more leadership roles of this uni­
international and domestic versity," she said. 
Williams and Reising state dignitaries speaking and .lec­"I believe a guy/girl combi­

that this school, "must break turing around campus. nation as president and vice down the wall of racial ten­"President Clinton should be president is very important in 
sion that is threatening Notre speaking to Notre Dame stu­helping to eliminate the gen­Dame. dents instead of Illinois stu­der problems of this campus,"
"Notre Dame is the crown DameaJ)f.t
dents," Williams said. she added. ,;·%i$fj':·:jewel of Catholic universities "Notre Dame is a top 25 uni­"We want to practice what 
and must be free of race prob­versity and the most presti­we are preaching, unity above world. lems," they added. gious Catholic school in the all," she concluded. 



Williams and Heising pro­country," he continued. pose that the school should "Nobody should overlook the offer more workshop-type 
students on this eampus."
classes where students can 
Reising commented that she 

Fitzsi01ons-Murphy 
continued from page 3 
school with some ideas of running in this election. They agree that their strong friendship and ability to communicate are keys to being effective student leaders. 
"We can criticize each other in a humorous way," Murphy said. "I think that being able to have different ideas but respect one another's thoughts is crucial." 
Fitzsimons. a junior government major, is planning on pursu­ing a law career after Notre Dame, while Murphy, a junior majoring in American studies, said that he is "keeping my options open." For both of them, however, this election is about being representative of the students, not individual agendas. 
"We are not out for boosting our own resumes or out for our own potential," Fitzsimons said. 
Both agree that the idea of being submerged into student gov­ernment is appealing. Fitzsimons, who is a member of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's gymnastics club, said that he feels the most effective when he has a full schedule. 
"The more I have on my plate, the better," he said. "But at the same time, I am practical; if it looks like I might have too much going on. then I take off the things that are the least important. That may mean less sleep, a missed gymnastics practice ... " 
"A missed Sesame Street episode ... " Murphy added. "Just kid­ding. I really cannot think of anything else we would rather be doing right now." 



DAY 'TIL RADUATI N 
FRI. NIGHT AIS CLUB 
DOORS OPEN @ 9PM 
50/50 RAFFLE FREE FOOD GIVE-AWAYS TO FIRST 500 
GRAVITY Hftt 
STARTS PLAYING @ 10:30 JUST ANOTHER REASON WHY YOU LOVE ... 
THE CLASS OF 1998 

is now accepting applications for the 
1998-99 General Board 
Anyfull-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Heather Cocks by Monday, Feb. 9, at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
. SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accenr department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depurrments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements . 
DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design/layout and newspaper production experience. The Design Manager oversees a staff of illustrators and graphic designers and works closely with department staff on lay­our/design of special sections and training employees in Quark. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager mainrains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operat­ing budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 

Wednesday, February 4, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


I




0 &eefood 
toni~ht 
~otta B le~al 7p•na/s dub 


Forum. 
By MICHELLE S; 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College 
Sisters of Nefertiti b~g~J:l their Spirit of Blackness events with a race forum held last night in Stapleton Lounge. 
The discussion was. orga~ nized to help people identifY what they have done or seen others do to encourage diversity on campus. The format was an open· discus­sion of questions posed by facilitators Alia Hawkins and Tysus Jackson. The ques­tions were compiled from drop boxes placed in each residence hall. 
The first question con· cerned the Sisters of Nefertiti. "Why is it the only ethnic group on campus?'' Hawkins read. Jackson asked all the members of the group, which consisted 9J women of many races.. to stand to illustrate the sity of the group. 
"The purpose of the 
Why lS Mona smiling? 


Rumor has it, Mona Lisa had pasta on her mind. Kind of like the authentic Italian pasta you'll find at Fazoli's. Fettuccine Alfredo, Spaghetti with rich Marinara sauce. And hearty Lasagna, just to name a few. Come by soon for a real work of art. You 'II smile, too. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 W. McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 
Real Italian. R
ealFast ... 

RLUMNI SENIOR CLUB 

WEDNESDAY 
Dart League Starts Tonight at 10 pm Senior Class Free Food 7pm -9pm 

FRIDRY 
Senior Class: 98 Days Until Graduation Party 9pm 


FreshiDen 
continued from page 1 
Dame, but only 23 percent plan on continuing in service nation­ally. 
"This is a Catholic university, so there's a sense of responsi­bility for others," commented Litzinger. "Participation in the opportunities provided by the Center for Social Concerns has become more of a culture here -it's something students like to do, and they encourage each other in addition to [receiving] encouragement from the University." 
Smith reports that, in her estimation, about one-third of OSU students are involved in service and extracurricular activities. 
OSU freshman Anushka Perera attributes the falling levels of extracurricular involvement among freshmen to the increasing emphasis placed on their studies in com­parison to the expectations made of students of the past. 
"Our generation tends to be more studious than those before ... we neglect activities in the interest of classes. We are still adjusting to college life, and people aren't jumping in immediately to get involved with activities for that reason. I think our involvement will increase with time," she com­mented. 
Jason Barrera, a freshman at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, has an alternate theory. 
"I am doing what I want to do for myself, and that doesn't necessarily mean a large vol­ume of activities, but it means more quality in what I do ... Of course there's people who are just into their social lives ­they just want to try new things -but most people do want to do something." 
"People are here for their own individual reasons," Smith commented. "If they're going to graduate, they have to apply themselves. The people who are here to get an education are the ones you see at the library on Friday night -they will do the work." 

Security 
continued from page 1 
1993 theft." The box had been emptied at 
12:30 p.m. Saturday, just prior to the break-in, and the per­sonal effects Fallon carried supported his claim that he took nothing, Hurley said. 
Fallon also stole a purse in the Hesburgh Library in December 1997, Hurley added. 
Prior to his arrest, Fallon was on parole for an earlier theft unrelated to the University; he faces a $10,000 fine for the parole violation. 
St. Joseph County prosecutor Michael Barnes approved the felony theft charge, a Class D felony. The maximum penalty it carries is "imprisonment for a fixed term of one-and-a-half years, with not more than one­and-a-half years added for aggravated circumstances, or not more than one year sub­tracted for mitigating circum­stances," according to Title 35-50-2-7 of the Indiana State Penal Code. 
The charge also carries a maximum fine of $10,000, according to the code, which is listed at http://www.law.indi­ana.edu/codes/inlincode.html. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 4, 1998 

• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 
The South Dining Hall Adventure 
It was a brisk Friday evening as my fellow section mates and I walked to a certain construction site for yet another South Dining Ilall adventurn. After pieking up a wet tray that nearly slipped out of my hands, I proceeded to gather my eating tools in their proper order. Knife first, fork second, and then finally the often dillicult-to-eome-by spoon. After noticing sonw sort of black fungus living on my fork and some bizarm green drdes growing on my spoon, I put them aside out of common courtesy to my fellow Domnr adventurers. Aftnr closer inspeetion, I grabbed some eleaner utensils and made my way to the ultimatr. dining tnmt: the South Dining llall bull'et. 
I should say. makr. my way past tho bu(l'et. due to the fact that I havn actually stopped at the bufl'et a total of four timr.s this entire year. A dir.t consisting solely of grah-n­go's and hot poekets gets old after a while, so I decided to "tmat" myself to a plate of shrimp poppers for a ehange. Due to my unsueeessful search li>r the necessary supple­nwnt of cocktail sauce, I politely asked an employee whero I could lind such an item. She looked around for a second and then went to go gnt a new tray from the back. A lilw moments later she returned mnpty-hand1ld and replied, "It's coming on the next truck." 
Now I don't like to consider myself a picky person by any means, but the thought of our food bning "trucked" to us is not particu­larly appetizing. I roalize that the construetion is necessary to accom­modat!l the studenl'i in the new dorms, but something just does not snllm right. When I picturn our food sitting in the back of some van, the thought of a greaSIJ-submerged pizza from Papa .John's seems a lot morn appealing. And I wondered where the black fungus and green circles on my fork and spoon came from. 
I am tired of giving South Dining llall chance after chance. Another night I went straight to dinner at about a quarter to seven after working out at the Rock. I just had a great workout, I didn't have too much schoolwork to do that night; I was feeling pretty good about my day as I entered the dining hall. Now somehow I often forget about the South Dining Hall Adventure, but I was quickly reminded as the droggy smell entered my nostrils upon walking in the door. While walking past what was left of the buffet, considering most of the food was cleared away (I mean put back on the truck) 20 minutes before closing time, the buffalo wings caught my eye. A'i an avid buffalo wing lover, I decided to give the dining hall another chance by putting a few on my plate. After passing the God-only-knows­what's-in-the-pot-soup and the solid grease layer covering the cheese, I declined on the refried beans as well (for some reason there was a sign above it which read "taco meat." I still can't figure that part out.} Following my choice of Sprite in the two options of soft drinks given to us, I sat down to begin my meal. 
Two wings later, a little voice in my stomach asked me why I was trying to punish him. I quickly obliged and "started over" as it is oftentimes referred to, and made my first of three trips to the convey­er belt that night. Next I went to the toaster to heat a bagel, intending on ordering a pizza a few hours later. Once again I began my search for another n1~cessary component, this time the cream cheese. This prod­uct has a similar resemblance to many others. and I had no interest on spreading some other substance on my sole dinner product. I began my search to no avail, and just to be safe once again I decided on con­sulting an employee. When I asked where I could locate the cream cheese, this person gave me a look as if I was dinically insane. She pointed right next to me, but I still did not see the label that I was looking for. She exclaimed, "It's right there," pointing at the same location. I innocently asked, "You mean where it says margarine?" I thanked her and went to finish my dinner. 
We all love to please our grand­mas. They are very proud of us, our accomplishments and our futures ahead of us. Whenever I talk to my grandma, all she wants to know is if her boy is being fed properly. Usually, to please her and to not cause her any concern, I reply to her food questions, "It's fine grand­ma." Finally over Christmas break I had had enough; after enjoying fresh bacon and eggs at her house, she asked me how the food was. I could no longer lie to my grand­mother, the staunch Irish Catholic saint who attends mass every day. I replied, "Grandma, I'm sorry to say this, but if you tasted the food in the South Dining Hall, your perception of Notre Dame might drop a little." I have given South Dining Hall one too many chances, and the idea of living ofl' campus next year seems to increase every day in order to escape the South Dining Hall Adventure. So the big question remains: will we see improvement in the near future of will the moldy dining hall smell continue to affix itself onto our clothing? The answer might be coming on the next truck. 
James B. Ricker Junior, Fisher Hall February 3, I 998 
• LEITER TO THE EDITOR 

A 'Revue' of Our Shortcomings? 
It's nice to find that the student body has such a great sense of humor, which the Keenan Revue has recently exemplified. The audiences laughed, and it was given good reviews. Everyone agreed that it was funny. Just because the majority of the show consist· ed of jokes made at others' expense, we don't seem to mind. It was all in good fun. See? We're laughing. There were jokes about everyone, therefore no one has any reason to be offended. Saint Mary's students, the girls' lacrosse team, Notre Dame cheerleaders, Ron Powlus, and Zahm residents -they don't mind. Freshmen girls, Breen-Phillips residents, Farley resi­dents, Pasquerilla West residents, Welsh Family Hall residents, Lewis residents, and all women on campus agree -these were only jokes. PLS majors, business majors, bio majors, computing majors. campus social service groups, and Mexican people -all of these people have no problem with the sterAotyping. It was supposed to be funny-why be offended'? Aren't we all laughing? Aren't we? 
For the students who laughed only with their mouths or did not laugh at all, we do not have to agree that the Keenan Hevue is inoffensive or funny. Just because it is a tradition, or because many studHnts regard it as a success, does not mean that it is accept­able. We do not have to smile or have a good sense of humor about something that ridicules and d(~basHs sections of what we call our NO community. The Keenan Revue is supposed to be a comedy of exagger­ated, sarcastic nature. Understanding this, it is stiii impossible to call it harmless or good-natured. It is hoped that all students feel free to object to the derogatory nature of much ofthe content in this tradi­tion, despite its popularity. 
Perhaps just as distm·bing as the actual jokes was the fact that many students seemed unfazed or simply reluctant to voice any disapproval. Th(~ laughter was loud, the criticism silent. If objections are not made, there is a type of gagging going on in this eommunity. When we start stifling our own opinions, only more stereotypes and insults will result. 
Rene Mulligan Freshman, PMquerilla West February 2, I 998 


GARRY TRUDEAU 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY
• DooNESBURY 
"Man is sometimes 
extraordinarily, pas­

sionately, in love with suffer­
ing." 
-Fyodor Dostoevsky 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 4, 1998 page 9 
• AWAK~NINGS ABROAD 
• COLUMN OF REASON 
A Need For Reform? 
LONDON 

The Clinton scandal hit the front pages in London with the same clamor it did back in the States last week. The Pope's historic visit to Cuba, pending conflict in the Middle East, and even the heightened tension between nationalists and unionists in Northern Ireland were all set on the back 
J D burner as the • r. world's most 
powerful man c n e 
apparently got 0 0 Y 
caught with his pants down. 
Quite frankly, the Brits loved it -they were somewhat delighted to see our leader squirm and the office of the presidency, at least for the time b.eing, put to relative shame. Much like another columnist abroad who The Observer reported last week, Americans in London were thoroughly embarrassed as events unfolded. Oddly enough however, assuming all this is true, President Clinton is only partially to blame for the humiliation; we ean attribute much of the blame to ourselves and the insanity of our political and media institutions. 
Let's start with the media. The day Clinton first floated his presidential balloon some 10 years ago, the American media began digging; when he declared candidacy six years ago, they dug harder and successfully exposed th~ Gennifer Flowers affair. Finally, once elected, the medta began a feeding frenzy of unsubstantiated claims and launched their own investigations into the private life of the president. It is not the responsibility, nor should it be the prerogative of the mainstream press to investigate and report on matters unrelated to the specific duties of a pub­lic servant. 
Non-Americans can't help but mock such a system run amok. The Brits for instance have an active and overzeal­ous tabloid press, but for the most part stories of sleazy behavior remain there until that behavior damages the person's capacity as a leader. The current scandal involv­ing Great Britain's foreign secretary is a perfect example -news of his extramarital affairs did not hit the main­stream papers until it was alleged by a former secretary that he fired her in favor of a mistress and spent govern­ment funds to have her accompany him on official busi­ness. 
I'm not alleging that the British press is free of scandal­starved reporters, or that it was inappropriate to report the Clinton affair (as a matter of fact, Newsweek demon­strated some integrity by withholding the story until more credibility could be established). What I am saying though is that it is entirely inappropriate that our press vehement­ly pursues controversy that results in the defamation of our political, social, and economic leaders. 
Second, non-Americans can only laugh hysterically over the faet that American taxpayers funded a 30 million dollar investigation that exposed an affair completely unrelated to the potential criminal charges under investigation -a1_1d through a two-bit sting operation against our own presi­dent no less. You should hear the Brits revel over this one at the pubs-here we are, the self-proclaimed moral and intellectual superior of the world, who ate the Di and Charles scandal alive, pulling the mat out from underneath our own feet. 
Don't misconstrue this as a defense for someone who 
may have abused his power to seduce an impressionable 
21-year-old woman. Nor is it an outright dismissal of the 
Independent Council Act, a poorly designed law which, 
with improvements, has the potential to properly scrutinize 
the conduct of our leaders. My question is, why do we go 
to such great lengths to cripple ourselves and our polity? 
Americans have a right to set high standards of ethics and morality for our leaders. But the current state of affairs sheds light on why we settle for mediocrity in our leadership: no one in their right mind would ever submit themselves to the mercy of our reckless media and ruthless ethics process. Instead of America's best and brightest entering public life, only the attention-starved and power­craved who can endure the system are throwing their hats in the arena. 
It is this that non-Americans are giddy about. If the pat­tern continues, America may perpetuate as the only great power that has never experienced a home front invasion or suffered a critical military or economic defeat. 
Rather, we may be the only great power to beat our­selves through our insatiable craving for controversy and scandal. The burden falls on our leaders and the media to reform themselves, and on the American public to demand they do it. It's time we realize we're not as "big and bad" as we like to think, and start realizing the whole world is watching ... and enjoying every minute. 
J.P. Cooney is an economics and government major cur­rently attending the London Program. He ~an still be reached via e-mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. flzs column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

New Buildings Should 
Respect NO Tradition 
Editor's Note: This is an installment ofa series All students have experienced the bottleneck that written by students within the School of occurs at the north entrance to DeBartolo around Architecture. These columns, under the byline lunchtime. The space allowed for entering and Column ofReason, will deal exiting is extremely small for with the built environment of the amount of traffic that Notre Dame, focusing in par-moves through those doors. ticular on recent additions While, at the same time, one and changes to our campus. is lucky to watch one or two
Jeremy 

people move through the In the beginning of the more spacious entrance fac­semester, an editorial ing west out onto the quad. 

Welsh

appeared in The Observer Now the designers could have addressing the lack of thought been looking far ahead, to it seems the University puts when the quad is completed into renovation and new con-on the south end and more struction on campus. In the students are using it, but for first Column of Reason of the the past four years, and at least a semester, the arbitrariness of few more into the future, students building and planning exhibited on have to work their way through campus will be addressed. that one entrance to the north. 
But first, we should look at One other aspect which I feel is instances where the University has arbitrary is the architecture of the exhibited some thought and plan­recent buildings on campus. ning. Take the renovation of the Although words like "new" and architecture building, now known "different" and "progress" would as Bond Hall. The work done on probably be used in describing the building needed to stick to a this architecture, I feel it is an tight schedule, a schedule that incorrect choice to turn one's back began three years ago with the on the surrounding buildings and opening of the College of Business context. Notre Dame, a school Administration. With the opening that stresses tradition and looks to of COBA, the business school the past for guidance, has ignored moved out of Hayes-Healy Center its own architecture. Ellerbe and Hurley Hall into their new Becket, the campus architects for accommodations. This freed up the past 50 years, has designed the two buildings fer the School of both the new dormitories as well Architecture, which moved into as the addition to the Law the complex in the summer of Building. With the Law Building, 1995. Work was then able to Ellerbe responded to an architec­begin on the Architecture tural tradition, giving a "new" Building. look to the construction through 
While this was going on, the first the use of materials and detailiBg two dorms on West Quad were while retaining the collegiate being constructed, to hold students gothic character prevalent from Grace Hall. This step in this throughout the older buildings of schedule was to free up the tower campus. This is not done with any for various offices of administra­of the other new buildings. 

tion. Grace, along with Hayes­Healy Hurley, were to house the administration while the renovation to the Administration Building was being done. As we can see now, this tight series of events has seemed to move rather smoothly. Another area where some thought has been placed by designers is probably over-looked. The new entrance to campus from the south, off of Notre Dame Avenue, at first glance looks haphaz­ard and out of the way. But if one is to look close­ly, the road follows the large trees that lined the fairway on the old golf course. A small move, but one that took at least a little forethought. 
These two examples, though, are overshadowed by instances where decisions appear to be arbi­trary. Some examples have already been addressed in the editorial from a few weeks ago, such as the timing decision for the renovation of South Dining Hall. But there are more examples. Take, for example, the placement and architecture of the four new West Quad dorms. Many opinions were voiced concerning the area chosen for the new dorms here in The Observer two years ago, so I will not necessarily address that aspect. But look at the alignment of the dorms in relation to each other and the buildings on South Quad. It appears as though little thought was given to creating a new quad, or responding to the back of South Dining Hall. The residence halls could have been situated to create courtyards, such as Alumni and Dillon Halls, and helped to define this new quad; but they were aligned side by side, forming odd spaces with no coherency. 
An area where the designers seemed to look too far ahead is with the entrances to DeBartolo Hall. 
I do not want to be completely negative in my opinions, as positive decisions have been made. It is probably a good thing that a plan from 1967 was rejected, although it seems the University is in need of a master plan for growth and building. The plan called for three mor~ tow­ers in addition to Grace and Flanner, and they would help to surround a space-ship looking chapel taller than the library. Also, it was in very good judgment by the University to allow the . chairman of the School of Architecture, professor Thomas Gordon Smith, act as the design architect for the renovation of Bond Hall. Knowing the needs of the students, he has created a building with the best spaces on campus -just look at how full the library becomes every night. 
And finally, one should take a walk by the site of the new book store and visitors' center, buildings that are under construction right now. These buildings were designed by a firm from Connecticut, a new firm to this campus, and one can see their response to and respect for the buildings that exist already here at Notre Dame. They will be welcome additions. Let us hope this is a move by the administration towards more thoughtful and planned out decisions for the build­ings of this campus. 
Jeremy Welsh is a fifth-year architecture stu­dent. The Column ofReason appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Have something to say? E-mail Observer. Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 4, 1998 

Saim Mary's Accent Writer 
Endless rows of cots. A wooden crate with some belong­ings stuffed inside. Maybe a little styrofoam cup of hot chocolate on the floor next to the metal bed. Or perhaps a bottle of Jim Beam covered with a brown paper bag. And tissue-thin blankets that wouldn't keep anyone warm on a snowy night. 
Maybe I'm dramatizing a bit, but this is embarrassingly close to what I had expected to see when I visited the South Bend Center for the Homeless. As I walked through the doors, I felt ashamed. My expectations. or lack thereof, were ignorant. The media are partially to blame for this horribly constructed picture that was etched in my mind and probably in the minds of others as well. The cookie­cutter model of a homeless shelter in Hollywood conveys a dark. dismal place with a high concentration of metal and cement. The center in South Bend did not fit that descrip­tion at all. The main room was light. inviting, and full of average things. There was a front desk with smiling volun­teers welcoming me, card tables, and pictures on the wall. They even had the new People magazine that I had been wanting to read. 
The shelter is not just a bed for a person in need; it's more like a stepping stone -for those who want to use it. "There is no length of stay policy," said director of volun­teers Matt Towney, "if the person is involved in the pro­grams and attempting to improve his/her current situa­tion." However, those people using the shelter as simply a place to get warm are limited to 30 days. 
A problem is solved usually by finding the root and working from there. "The sad thing about it is that there isn't just one cause. If houses were the problem, we'd build more houses," Towney said. "There is a complex set 
By ERIKA WIITORF Saint Mary's Accent Writer 
One of the best stories of compassion is the history of the Center for the Homeless. David Link, dean of Notre Dame's law school, and Darcy Chism were volunteers at a local homeless shelter when they wore told that it would close. Link and Chism lookod for another building to house the people. 
They looked at available buildings around the area. A former Gilbert's dopartment store was chosen for the new shelter site. The cost of the building was too much and the building itself was too large to serve their needs. In spite of the obstacles, they put their persona.l funds together and placed a down payment on the building. In addition, they took a loan of $100,000. 
"People said we were crazy for contributing our pt~rsonal funds to the project," Link recalls. "Despite the personal risk, I couldn't let the opportunity to buy the building go." 
On Dt~c. 18. 1988, a fire at the Morningside Hotel, a housing facility for low-to-moderate income housing, left 100 people homeless on a frigid night. 
In response to the crisis, Mayor Joe Kernan called Link to coordinate volunteers to help set up the facility, "Dean Link orga· nized hundreds of volunteers to feed and sheltet· their community members. He is an incredibly compassionate man." 
That night, Link cancelled his plans for a Christmas party. Instead, he spent time working at the shelter. 
"Last-minute arrangements were made to get beds and lockers ready for residents," said Link. Hesources from the South Bend School Corporation and the University of Notre Dame, among others, were used in this time ot' need. 
Link also appeared on television to ask community members to donate clothing for the project. "We collected 16 busloads of cloth· ing and food." he recalls. 
Built on a firm foundation of compassion and love, the center grew from a one-level to a fully-functional two-level center. In 1994, the 
of reasons that people come to the center-poverty, sick­ness, and the list continues." 
The center is a booster seat for the people who want t(J reach the working world. Each person is eligible. if the need is there, but the internal drive needs to be present as well. In most aspects of life, people.-----­
can't be helped unless they want to 111111•..• be. And try to be. The center is no different. 
There are three divisions to the liv­ing quarters. Single men, single women, and family dorms. The peo­ple who come to the center alone live with about 15 others in a large, open room. Each person is given some individual space, along with a locker in which to keep their belongings and a nice bed with all the dressings. The shelter requires each person to show­er daily, since many people are living in close quarters. So, the truth is thE guests practice good hygiene. That'~ better than some college students. 
The other division is the famil) dorms. Each family is assigned to om room. Each person has a warm bee 
as well, but the families have a littlE lf==:zr:!!!!=~~r~SI'.~~~~~~~~~~ cooler in which to keep snacks. Currently, 15 mothers and 39 chil­
dren reside at the center. The older LT-h'--e'--S-o-u-th~B"""'e'"'n~d-C~e-n-te~r-fo-r-t-he_H_o_m_e_le-ss_w_e_lc-om-es-vi-si-to-rs-in-to-i-tsl children receive the help that they dignity and self-service to its members. need as well. 
The center is putting up a fight against the statistic that are also volunteers available to 1 70 percent of homeless children never graduate from high The center even has an on-site school. A school bus picks up the school-aged children children not ready for school yet. 
center provided for 2,454 people, including 190 mothers with 314 children. 15,500 hours of volunteer work were shared by 2,943 indi­
viduals. More than 64,000 meals were provided to residents and nou:resid~nts during 1 nter provided additional services t ·i,w gues~ such. as .m ... assistance, employment counsel-
mid education; Acti .···· .. tinvolve teaching involve a trusting human relationship, not a . .ed one. 
"Compassion sometimes necessitates tough love so that we can assist people in gaining control over their lives and establishing a sense .9f discipline and self·confidence," said University President Father Edward Malloy~ "When Chism and I originally planned the shelter, we intended it to serve for more than a handout. We wanted to help people to help them­
selves." · The ce11ter;s goal is to assist each family in achie'(ing self~sufficiency. This involves pos· 
sessing the knowledge arid skills to secure decent housing, sustain a healthy lifestyle, Fc0 0 C and establish the life-giving relationships necessary for personal stability and 
growth. · · 

The history of compassion continues at the shelter. Programs like "starting over" help guests set goals, resolve con­flicts, and manage stress. Another pro­gram focuses on job training and plaee­
tiient through the New Occupational Vocational Activities pro~am (NOVA). A partnership between the center and Workforce Development Services of Northern Indiana, NOVA trains people to work and places them according to their skills. In 1997, 63 percent of adults who par­ticipat.ed in the job training program found 
employment. Compassion is a necessary part of these programs 
that the shelter uses to help their residents. The shelter is not a detached institution tha11nerely hands out food and gives peo­ple a place to sleep. It is a home that loves and cares for its guests. 
"None of us can be sure that we will not have to deal with similar circumstance in our own lives," said Malloy. In the sense that any­body can fall prey to poverty, all individuals are alike. 
first in the morning and drops noon, to let the children feel nothing lo be ashamed of," said whole bus won't know where they can choose to tell their rrlo~>nrr" 
Accent Writer 
Many Notre Dame and Saint 1\ their work represents one of thei college education. Matt Towney, tor at the Center for the Hom11 their time and energy to hel homeless in the South Bend co would agree wholeheartedly. Towney describes service wor 
center as the bringing together (] ent groups of people who learn deal from each other. During th11 
volunteers come to realize "the worth, and God-given potential" individual. The experience tea volunteers that even those w most in need possess the al become self-sufficient and pr< members of society. 
Towney's job involves recruil orienting volunteers to the ce1 places, trains, and schedules for their responsibilities. lie als• that all volunteers receive rec for their work. Towney believe ing time at the center bnnefits t teer as well as the homeless. 
As a former Notre Dame stu unteer, Towney says the servir ence "rounds out and enha Notre Dame education." lie . dents often gain more from th on experience than expected learn about the eircumstanc encounter from living on the . addition. volunteers learn a about themselves. Students greater appreciation for the have, and become more willin those gifts with those less fort 
The center requires each vo session, during which they le 

1m off last in the after­Volunteers constitute much of the staff, but more are 
[e at ease. "They have needed. Mia is a single mother attending daily programs 
~ey, "but this way the and a part-time job as well. Her baby is taken to day-care 
~y were picked up and in the morning and brought back mid-afternoon. "We 
; if they want to." There need more volunteers throughout the day," she said. Although the day care is a blessing to her, some of the children don't attend. The colorful common room for the family dorm guests is filled with children and only a handful of mothers can watch the children while others attend classes or work. Mia's suggestion: "A day care center is really needed here." The guests are not permitted to have alcohol or drugs; in their pock­ets or in their bodies. This is penal­ized by an invitation back into the streets. They have a curfew of 9:30 
p.m. If they aren't back, they won't have a bed. 
The homeless center is so much more than I thought. The center takes 7 5 percent of the money the guests earn and keeps it safe until they are ready to check out. The rest can be used for things that the center doesn't provide, such as birthday gifts or other non-necessi­ties. 
The South Bend Center for the Homeless is not a place for people to in the afternoons. sit around and mope or hang out. It's a place to change. ontessori preschool for It's a place to learn life-altering skills. These homeless 
really are serious people trying to help themselves. 
sion of the center, as well as the specific programs designed to hP-Ip those without homes. Volunteers then talk with residents to gain a greate1 understanding of their situations, as well as the ary's student volunteers believe daily goings-on of the center. Towney places volunteers depend­most meaningful aspects of their ing on their schedule and preferences. Positions vary from serv­the volunteer services coordina­ing meals throughout the day, to tutoring children or adults, to 
' believes those who donate working at tlw front desk. 
the A typical day involves dis­tributing meals and partic­ipating and coordinating various activities for resi­dents. For example, the Center's staff serves break­fast at 6:30 a.m. and lunch at 11 a.m. At 3:30 p.m. vol­unteers coordinate tutoring and other activities for chil­dren returning from school. Volunteers take part in the chapel service at 7 p.m. Seminars on topics such as self-sufficiency are held throughout the week, in addition to special events and fundraising activities. 
Towney looks for individu­als who are flexible and able to adjust to a setting that can often become crowded and busy. Volunteers must also be willing to take the time necessary to become a mem­ber of the center's communi­ty. Working with the home­as they less requires an individual to people have an open mind, and ·ects. In realize that learning from 1at deal the residents is often as hieve a important as teaching them. fts they Through this experience, 
o share many who are fortunate .te. enough to receive a higher teer to partake in an orientation, education share their knowledge with those who are willing to 
about the history and the mis-learn. Volunteers receive a great deal of knowledge in return. 
cnnn·<>nn doa commercial. Julia Wb~n ytiffln suggests lml~tciat, Julia jumps on hlrn. to have a lot of fun .. ·.·their 
.(i pictQl'e,.·Julia to get 
lethat wnt· a r to herself and it a~ the assembly for c~.~lie and asks him 
tntnK anout tlie future;" Claudia 
pfo,bte·ms. Ba.iley and Elliott discuss that andthey couldn't per­~d Elliott. ar~ not 
. two· inale. barbies, ·· · of Elliott when that be is gay
hlin · heis 
"'A~ua.u..., that 



WVU scratches Panthers 
Wednesday, February 4, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Associated Press 
MOHGANTOWN, W.Va. 
J arrod West scored 18 points and Damian Owens added 16 Tuesday night, leading No. 15 West Virginia to a 90-72 win over Pittsburgh. 
West made three 3-point­ers as the Mountaineers (19­3, 9-3 Big East) handed the Panthers their fifth loss in a row. 
Pittsburgh (7-10, 2-8) closed within 57-52 at 11:14 on Stephen Flores' 3-pointer before West Virginia used an 11-2 run highlighted by West's third 3-~ointer to put the game away. 
Marcus Goree added 14 points and grabbed a career­high 15 rebounds for the Mountaineers. 
The Mountaineers shut down Pittsburgh's leading scorer, Vonteego Cummings, who finished with one field goal and four free throws. 
Facing a Pitt team ranked last in the conference in scoring defense, West Virginia, which leads the Big East in scoring, improved to 14-0 when scoring more than SO points. 
West Virginia frustrated the Panthers with 12 steals, including five by Owens five and four by Jones. The Mountaineers also outre­bounded Pitt 42-32. 
The Mountaineers, who hung on for a 76-72 win at Pittsburgh six days earlier, started the game with a 15-2 run that featured a pair of 3­pointers by West. 
Pittsburgh closed within 27-25 before Jones sparked a 14-2 run as West Virginia opened a 43-32 halftime lead. 
No. 24 Iowa 79 Wisconsin 76 

Ricky Davis poured in 25 points to power 24th­ranked Iowa to a 79-76 vic­tory over Wisconsin at the Kohl Center. The llawkeyes shot 51 percent to break their four-game losing streak and extend Wisconsin's losing streak to live games. 
The llawkeyes improved to 16-6 overall and 5-4 in the Big Ten, while the Badgers fell to 10-12 overall and 3-7 in the conference. 
Wisconsin built a 40-31 lead at the break, but Iowa started the second half with a 16-3 run to take a 47-43 advantage with 15 1/2 minutes left. Wisconsin came back to tie the game at 49-49, but Iowa used an 11-4 burst to grab a 60-53 lead with just over 10 min­utes to play. 
Wisconsin again pulled within four at 65-61, but Iowa scored seven of the next nine points for a 72-63 advantage with just under four minutes remaining. The Badgers twice got within three and even had one final chance to tie it in the closing seconds. 
llennssy Auriantal stole the long inbounds pass in the backcourt with six sec­onds left and fired it back to Sean Mason. Mason had trouble with the defense along the left wing and fired up a desperation three-pointer that fell short as time expired. 
Mason led the Badgers with 14 points. He made just 3-of-11 shots, including only 2-of-8 from three-point range. Sean Daugherty chipped in 13 points and 10 rebounds for Wisconsin, while Mike Kelley added 13 points. 
Davis was the only Hawkeye in double figures, as he hit 9-of-12 field goals and 5-of-7 free throws.·J.R. Koch and Kent McCausland each scored nine for the Haw keyes. 
No. 13 South Carolina 65 Vanderbilt 61 
B.J. McKie drained four free throws in the last 20 seconds to lift the 13th­ranked South Carolina Gamecocks to a 65-61 come from behind victory over the Vanderbilt Commodores. South Carolina has won seven straight and improved to 7-2 in the SEC. The Commodores have lost three of their last four, falling to 4­5 in the conference. 
The Gamecocks have won the last four in this series and are 17-3 on the year. Vanderbilt dropped to 15-7 overall. 
South Carolina opened· up its biggest lead of the game, 58-50, behind solid defense and the offensive rebounding of Melvin Watson. Vanderbilt went on a 7-3 spurt that closed the gap to four at 61-57. Drew Maddux capped the run with a three-pointer with 1 112 minutes to play. 
The Gamecocks had a chance to ice the game on the line, but missed three consecutive one-and-one opportunities. Austin Bates rebounded a Maddux miss and scored, putting Vanderbilt within two, 61­59, with just 20 seconds to play. 
...... 
Photo courtesy of West Virginia Sports Information 

West Viriginia guard Jarrod West sank three 3-pointers in the Mountaineer win. 
gling national championship like Michigan's, or a top-five finish from
Signing Day 
the Florida schools, he must be doing continued from page 20 something right in order to convince 
everyone that the Irish will n~turn to Bob Davie as the head coach of the the status they once boasted. Irish, it is those who will be playing Of course, there is a big difference for him. If he can lure a group of from having talent and maximizing it. blue-chip recruits away from a dan-But it's not a bad start. 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. a! the Noue Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. a! 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contem without issuing refunds.  
PNOTICES FOR RENT FII 27House For Rent THE COPY SHOP -Two Blocks From Campus 98LaFortune Student Center 4-5 Bedroom. Dishwasher, saWE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, Washer/Dryer. Large Backyard and 1AND WEEKENDS!!! Off Street Parking. 27Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight June 98 for Summer. August for Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Fall. FREE MONITORED SECURI­ASat Noon -6:00pm TYSYSTEMI 3­Sun Noon -Midnight Call289-4712 CALL 631-COPY AtVERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 HEYII It's not too early to place a MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. VALENTINE in the classified ads 243-0658. for your sweetie and/or a friend! ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS B232-2595 wiWANTED fraMALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO plSHARE 2-BDRM HOME. INC. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT WASHER/DRYER, PHONE, D-Fishing industry. Excellent earn-SATELITE TV. M OTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 73097 '-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar. nd V-ball ct. washer/dryer. 628 Portage Av. 234-3831 3-0482 vailable in Aug. 4 Bedroom 2 Baths Washer/Dryer, Furnished tached Garage 683-6591 FOR SALE eautiful Brass bed, queen size, th orthopedic Mattress set and me. New, never used, still in astic. $225 219-862-2082 ESKTOP INTEL 486, 66DX, 8 B, 5 MB HARD DRIVE, 3.5 INCH  WANTED-NO vs MIAMI B-Ball tix The grasshopper is making his Hey Tenille, on 2122. Lower arena. move. For.all you do, this classified's for 258-1111 I have a new respect for hockey. you. If you know what I mean. 4 tickets for sale 253 Morrissey suffers from "Packer now I have to think of what to get Beauty & the Beast in Chicago Envy" her! Sat, Feb. 7 -$70 each that is the part that is so hard ..... call 243-9025 Last Thursday night a sad, sad tale came to pass. Everyone's okay, I lied. it's not my FAVORITE Cheap Plane ticket for a woman favorite mob boss. FAT TONY, place. but it is the crossroads of anywhere in U.S. Perfect for Spring had one too many drafts of america. gotta love that. Break. Goose Island at Club 23, and Cynthia 1-7424 croaked on the spot. Many fear A.B. The dream begins ... Let's that Seth Kaufman may be write a movie, what do ya say? I Will trade 2 Sat. "Mid. Sum. Night's responsible for this, perhaps Dream" for 2 Fri. tix. Call Mike having poisoning that final, A little appreciation would be nice, @4328. fateful drink. No doubt there will Gilbert. be revenge taken, and who Will trade 2 Sat. "Mid. Sum. Night's better to do it than FAT TONY's But I still love you anyway. Dream" for 2 Fri. tix. Call Mike most faithful and feared son, the @4328. esteemed UMPHREY'S McGEE. K.K. Thursday night? Girls night Word has it that Kaufman may WANTED: see his last show this Saturday The nun is coming ... look out! 2 Allen Jackson tickets 24 7-0737 at BENCHWARMERS, where UMPHREY'S McGEE and his GRANTHAM!!  
ings & benefits potential. 219·289-1357. FMale/Female. No experience nee-Messary. Ask us howl 517-324-3116 NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR ext. A55841 NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD  LOPPY, CD 4-SPEED, 14.4 ODEM, AOL. PHONE:631-9341  friend All SABA'S TAHINI will PERSONAL join forces to avenge to boss's L-.Cour-"He's like Zeus ... and I death. Watch for more details kissed him freshman year! here tomorrow ....  

,.. 
AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097 
TICKETS 
Debit Hey Winkler ... think Ohio! 


I used to drink a lot and I wouldn't remember what I did. But then I tested HIV positive and it all came back to me. 
-Suzanne W. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
Wednesday, February 4, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• NFL 



Ex-UCLA coach Donahue keeps Dallas in the dark 
Associated Press 
IRVING. Texas 

Terry Donahue returned to California on Tuesday after another round of interviews and a night.----=:----, at owner Jerry Jones' mansion. c~reati ng an uncertain turn in the D a I I a s Cowboys' search for a Donahue new coach. 
The former UCLA coach had a third meeting with Jones before catching an early­morning flight home, height­ening speculation that things did not go well. 
"There is no timetable esti­mate for the near future. I'm not a liberty to say whether there will be more inter­views," team spokesman Rich Dalrymple said. 
Jones also claims to have a "mystery" candidate he can fall back on if all else fails. And he insists he will have a coach that will have the play­ers and fans "sitting up in their seats." 
Donahue was set to fly to Indianapolis on Thursday with the Cowboys for the NFL com­bine and it wasn't known if that trip was still planned. 
Green Bay offensive coordi-

Wednesday February 4 
7PM Showing of Philadelphia [Montgomery Theater-LaFortune] 
nator Sherman Lewis and for­mer San Francisco coach George Seifert have had two interviews each. 
Lewis got to spend two nights at the Jones palace while Seifert has yet to be summoned there. 
"I haven't talked to Jerry since last Friday," Lewis said. "It's frustrating waiting." 
Donahue had a 20-year career at UCLA but never won a national title as had Johnson and Switzer, who quit Jan. 9 after going 6-10 in his fourth and final season as the team's coach. 
Donahue, who coached Cowboys quarterback Troy Aikman in college, resigned 
•FRIDAYS & SATURDAYS • •10PM-3AM• STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS ALWAYS LOOKING FOR NEW VOLUNTEERS TO WORK SAFERIDE. CALL MARY AT 1-9888 FOR MORE INFO. 

NEED RESIDENCE LIFE COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS? SAFERIDE COUNTS! 
• 

from UCLA after the 1995 sea­son. He has been working as a college football analyst for CBS. 
Dallas also needs an offen­sive coordinator to replace Ernie Zampese, who has gone to New England. 
The team hired Clarence Shelmon of the Seattle Seahawks on Tuesday as run­ning backs coach to replace Joe Brodsky, who has gone to Chicago. 
The team also announced Tuesday it has extended the contracts of defensive coordi­nator Dave Campo, lineback­ers coach Jim Bates, kicking/offensive quality con­trol coach Steve Hoffman, offensive line coach Hudson Houck and secondary coach Mike Zimmer. 
Donahue, 53, took UCLA to 13 bowl games, with a record of 8-4-1 in the postseason games. However, his teams never won a national title, as Johnson did at Miami and Switzer did at Oklahoma. 
In 1987, Donahue turned down a $2.4 million, five-year offer from the Atlanta because of "deep family ties" in California. 
At the time, he also said the offer was a "chance to go to a neat city with a great job. I don't think an opportunity like that is going to be presented to me again." 
whether he would accept that ·.role. 
Clancy also .plans to ~eep coach Dennis Green, who nearly quit amid the sale ,s. uncer4J;inty before. announcing · last W(iek he. ld fultlll ~h~ finalyear of .. •contract in 1998. Green also declined a team offi~ 
Green's six seasons . ."W~{l .form:~r owners9ipdidri'f have any pash or rev­
enue to sign some big-name free agents," said Philip Maas, one of the 10 current owners. 
~The y~w group WilL" . · 
Clancy's role as the sole majority owner -each of the 10 current own s own equal sharef'l :--also make ded~ sions f)asier. 
"When you're an individual you don't have the same con~ straints as you do when you're 10 people," Gal)is said. 
Clancy will own the largest share of the Vikings, at least the 30 percent mandated by the NEL The ,league has been pressing the Vikings to meet that mandate for several years, and the team went on the mar~ 
summer '!~en none of 
i t!t;r.tbie' c~U:rret'J.t owners were able 
•''H(ladltHl'k•·•·•···· ·· such ii deal. · is the author of best­thrillers sljch 
d0ctobet;" and ''Cltliir 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 4, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Lack of offers keeps 'Big Unit' in Mariners uniform 
Associated Press 
SEATfLE 

Seattln hasn't heard an accept­able offer for Randy Johnson, so it appears he will stay with the Mariners until at least the July 31 tradn deadline. 
"If he's with us at the begin­ning and the end. that means we'rn right there fighting to get in postseason play," general manager Woody Woodward said Tunsday. 
Johnson is eligible for free agency after the season, and Seattle said Nov. 12 it wouldn't offer a contract extension. Johnson, who will make $6 mil­lion this season, asked to be traded. The Mariners said they were approached by six teams, including the New York Yankees, Cleveland, Toronto and Los Angeles. 
"I really thought there would be more clubs calling," Woodward said. "I didn't think 


JOB HUNTING? 
ALL INTERVIEWS TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK ARE POSTED TODAY IN THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE. CHECK NOW TO SEE IF YOU ARE SCHEDULED. 
IF YOU ARE NO LONGER INTERESTED, CROSS YOUR 
NAME OFF THE SCHEDULE. DO NOT TAKE AN 
INTERVIEW AWAY FROM ANOTHER STUDENT. 
NO-SHOWS HURT EVERYONE. 
IF YOU SIGN UP, SHOW UP. 

there would be so many clubs hesitating because of dollars and that's what I've seen over the last couple of months." 
"Our posture basically is to win," manager Lou Piniella said. "So we're pleased that Randy's still with us. I feel he'll be with us all year." 
Woodward said he expects Johnson to report when spring training opens. 
"I think it's important that he get there on time and get ready to pitch," Piniella said. 
Seattle said Johnson wanted "Greg Maddux money." Maddux, a four-time Cy Young Award winner. agreed last season to a $57.5 million. five-year contract extension. 
Johnson, who won the AL Cy Young Award in 1995, is 121-64 in nine seasons with the Mariners and was 20-4 last sea­son following back surgery. The Mariners don't expect Johnson to be a distraction in the club­house. 
"Would you like everybody to be h.~PPY and want to be them? Yes, 
Woodward said. "Is it absolutely necessary'! No." Piniella said Johnson's situa­tion was not unique. 
"It's happened with the Marlins all winter," he said. "I don't think we'll have -I won't say any problems -but I don't think we'll have many prob­lems." 




--·­

Wednesday, February 4, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• OlYMPIC TRACK ANO F!EUJ • OLYMPIC SKIING 
Street returns froiD





American sets pace in 60m 
" 
Associated Press 6.57. Gwen Torrance, of the 
injury, set for Japan 
American athletes took the United States, suffered a 
MADRID, Spain 

Maurice Greene, the world champion at 100 meters, set the world indoor 60-meter record Tuesday, docking 6.39 seconds. 
The record came two days after Greene equaled the pre­vious record of 6.41 seconds set by Andre Cason in 1992, also in Madrid. 
Greene finished 11 hun­dredths of a second ahead of fellow American Jon Drummond. Nigeria's Davidson Ezinwa finished in 

===­

~ 

ALL JTUDENTI ARE INVITED TO ATTEND THE JTUDENT ~OVERNMENT DEBATE WHICH WILL BE HELD ON /UNDAY FEBRUARY 8, 1998 AT 7:00 P.M. IN THE LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
FEATURIN~ ~UEJT M.C. NATHAN CARR 
(JOME OF YOU MAY REMEMBER HIM FOR Hl.f CHRI.f FARLEY ANTIU AT THE GEORGIA TECH PEP RALLY) 
top three positions in the 60­meter hurdle with Allen Johnson, the 100-meter hur­dle world champion, finishing at 7.44, the best time of the year. Duane Ross was second at 7 .49, followed by Tony Dees at 7.50. 
In the women's category, Jamaica's Michelle Freeman timed 7. 7 4, five hundredths of second off the world record, while Slovenia's Brigita Bokovec finished in 7. 96 ahead of Patricia Girard of France at 8.12. 
painful muscle strain in her right leg in the 60-meter semi­final and hobbled off the track after the race. 
The final was won by Nigerian Chioma Ajunwa in 7.10. 
Frenchman Alain Andji won the pole vault with a jump of 
5.70 followed by Okkert Brits of South Africa with 5.60 and Lawrence Johnson of the United States at 5.40. 
In the long jump, Jamaican James Beckford set a year's best with 8.21. 
Associated Press 
BEAVERTON, Ore. 

When skier Picabo Street wiped out while speeding down a Swedish course at 75 mph, her first thought was: "I want my mom." 
Speaking for the first time since the accident knocked her unconscious, Street said the only lingering effects are a stiff neck and some soft tissue dam­age. 
"It was a humbling experi­ence," she said Tuesday. "You really feel like you just want to go see your mom." 
But it made her realize she is over her knee injury and ready to compete for the gold medal in Nagano. 
"It's when you really know that you're back, 100 percent, and no matter what happens, you're going to be OK," said Street, who leaves for Japan on Thursday. ''I'm more confident in my body and in how it's going to hold up." 
Street, 26,-returned to com­petition last month after being sidelined more than a year fol­lowing knee surgery. From the world headquarters of Nike Inc., she briefed reporters about her training regimen ihat made it possible to recover so rapidly from the tear in her anterior cruciate ligament. 
"Right from the beginning, it was how can I go faster, how can I go faster," said Street, wearing braids, a backward Nike cap and a constant grin. 
Try Sacred Heart :S Parish Center 
(St. Joseph Hall on campus) We set a $50.00 per person donation for the weekend. Come Early (Thursday), Stay Late (Tuesday) Same low price. 
For reservations please call Mr. Paul Eddy at 631-7512 
"It's a way of life for me." 
Noticeably stiff but in good spirits, she laughed when train­er Matt James called her the "elder statesman" of the ski team. As he tried to explain the attributes of a new Nike train­ing shoe designed to reflect her personality, she played with the shoe prototype, moving it back and forth in front of him. 
Street said it's been awhile since she's crashed so hard ­an experience she likens to get­ting thumped hard by one of her brothers or getting whiplash in a car crash. 
"I knew exactly what had happened when I came to and felt that rush," she said. 
Returning to the Olympic course in Are, Sweden, where she won a World Cup race in 1995, Street fell on the fastest and most dangerous part after a ski binding pre-released. 
She lay on the snow uncon­scious for about two minutes but was able to walk away from the scene of the accident after a few minutes. 
"The worst part was the fact that I broke my favorite ski," she said. 
Street, who won a silver medal in the women's downhill in the 1994 Winter Olympics, will be back on skis again Feb. 7 in Nagano. She'll compete in the women's super giant slalom on Feb. 10. The downhill is Feb. 14. 
''I'm looking for a gold medal," she said. "That's my goal." 
.... 
:z: 
1­
C
ome join the 
Applications ay:~ being accept(!d}t£lir. .. 
positions atth:e Club for the 1998-99 year. You may pick up 
Student Activities, 315 La 


DEADLINE: FEBR 
ALUMNI
....


SENIOR
:z: 
1­

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
-

Actors frorn tl1e Lo11don Stage 

AMidsummer Night~s ream 
The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 
,..,.._,________________,..._-.!_________________________......,...____ -.._,.. 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February 4, 1998 
-
• NHl 



Ciccarelli scores 600th goal 
•NHL 

GMs (liscuss changes to speed up game
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Dino Ciccarelli scored his 600th eareer goal with 5:09 left in regulation as the Florida Panthers tied the Detroit Red Wings 1-1 Tuesday night. 
Ciccarelli became the ninth playtlr in NIIL history to reach the 600-goal plateau, and he did it against his former club. 
The goal was the third for 
Ciccarelli since joining the Panthers Jan. 16 in a trade with Tampa Bay. Ciccarelli spent four seasons in Detroit before moving to the Lightning. 
Ciccarelli's goal prevented what would have been an emo­tional win for the Red Wings, who were joined at the game by teammate Vladimir Konstantinov. 
Konstantinov attended his first game since an automobile accident last June. 

Konstantinov, who watched the game from a sky box, has been rehabilitating in West Palm Beach for head injuries sustained in a limousine acci­dent days after the Red Wings won the Stanley Cup. 
Ciccarelli's power-play goal was a result of a holding penal­ty against Igor Larionov. 
Florida's Ray Whitney began the play with a shot that was wide. Scott Mellanby rebounded the puck and 11ipped it across the slot to Ciccarelli, who wrist­edit past Chris Osgood. 
Red Wings defenseman Larry Murphy gave Detroit a 1-0 lead at 2:38 of the first period. That lead stood until Ciccarelli's goal tied the game. 
Murphy scored on a shot that was deflected by defenseman Ed Jovanovski. 
The play started when Florida defenseman Jell" Norton lost the puck to Tomas llolmstrom, who fired off a shot that Florida goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck stopped. 
Murphy rebounded the puck and let loose from the top of the cirele. The puck deflected ofT the leg of Jovanovski and then through the legs of Vanbiesbrouck. 
Detroit has the league's sec­ond-best road record at 13-7-7. 
The Panthers wrapped up their recent five-game homes­tand with a 3-1-1 record. 
The Panthers were without coach Bryan Murray, who was in Arizona for the general man­agers meetings. 
Chicago 2, Phoenix 2 

Tony Amonte scored twice and added an assist to lead the Chicago Blackhawks to a 4-2 victory over the Phoenix Coyotes. Chicago snapped a two-game skid and won for the first time in five tries against Phoenix this season (1-3-1 ). 
.!%!!!"'''·;>·· .• 

Nanovic Institute for European ·Studies 


The Nanovic Institute has announced its 1998.;99 grantprogram for faculty, graduate students, and qndergraduate stqq~pts. 
Faculty Grants: The Nanovic Institute will award three faculty grants of up to $4,000 each for projects that deal with f;uropean' issues. Preference will be given to those proposals tn~t require . travel to Europe. These grants can be used for Summer research or for research during the 1998-99 school year. Application deadline: March 31 t 1998. 


Graduate Students Grants: The Institute will awardthree graduate student grants of up to $3,000 each for proj tst~at deal with European issues. Preference will be given hose proposats that require travel to Europe. These grants can be used for Summer research or for research during the 1998-99 school.year. Application dead lin~: March 31,199~~11,1,> Un(!lergraduate Student Grants: The Institute will award three undergraduate student grants of up to $3,000 each forprojects that deal with European issues. Preference will be given to those proposals that require travel to Europe. It is expected that these grants will be used for Summer research. Application deadline: March 31, 1998. 
For more information, contact: Robert Wegs, Nanovic Institute, G22 Hesburgh Library, University of Notre Dame, Phone: 631·5253. · 

Assodated Pre,. 

SCOTTSDALE. Ariz. 
What was scheduled as a morning meeting stretched into a seven-hour session Tuesday as NHL general man~ agers grappled with ways to ma.~e hockey appeal to a wider audience. 
Proposed rule changes turned out to be the sticking point. Many GMs believe the game needs only fine-tuning, without adopting headline· grabbing departures such as dividing a game into quarters ala football and basketbalL 
That proposal was tabled in one of the day's few concrete developments. 
"It was never alive," com­missioner Gary Bettman. "The IHL is testing the idea, like it is testing a whole host of things. We're interested to sec all of their efforts to speed up the game, but nothing is needed that is too radical. This game doesn't need radical solu-. tions." 
The meeting will end Wednesday. Delegates cannot implement changes, but can 
The Blackhawks grabbed a 1­0 lead on .Jeff Shantz's short­handed goal just 1:57 into the game. Nikolai Khabibulin stopped Keith Carney's shot from the left side, but Shantz scored on the rebound in front for his ninth of the season. 
Amante's first goal of the game With 11:56 left in the first period gave Chicago a 2­0 advantage. He blasted a slap shot past Khabibulin from the top of the slot. Eric Weinrich assisted on both goals. 
Jay More put the Coyotes on the board at 12:57 of the second with a slap shot from the right circle, but Amonte restored the Blackhawk lead at 3-1 with a power-play goal with 30 sec­onds remaining in the period. Chicago was skating on a two­man advantage and Amonte scored on the rebound on an odd -man rush for his)9th· goal. 
Eric Daze scored his team­leading 21st goal just 53 sec­onds into the third period to give the Blackhawks a 4-1 advantage. Darryl Shannon scored for Phoenix in the final minute of play. 
Jeff Hackett stopped 23 shots for Chicago. 
Los Angeles 6, Calgary 3 
Jozef Stumpe! recorded his 
recommend them to the board of governors. 
Bettman said the GMs win­nowed out some issues to focus on others that appeared more workable. 
"Some we can do ourselves, some we will test in the American Hockey League or the International Hockey League, and one -the elimi­nation of the red line -we may test in the preseason next year," he said. 
He said the league would look into a better definition of goaltender equipment, em~our­age forcchecking and set up a clearer standard for calling obstruction and interference fouls. 
Suggestions like moving the goals eloser to center ice, not allowing goalies to handle thn puck behind the goal line and a hurry-up faceoll' rule similar to the system used in the IHL also were still open to debate. 
"None of these are carved in stone," he said. "We're going to sl~ep on theso, and tomor­row we'll hn in a better pnsi­tion to say this is what we tocus(ld on." 
seeond career hat trick to power the Los Angeles Kings to a 6-3 victory over the Calgary Flames at the Saddledome. Th«l Kings bounced back from Monday's 1-0 loss at Edmonton to win for the sev­enth time in their last nin11 games ( 7 -1-ll. The Flames an~ winless in their last three {0-2­
1) and have lost all four meet­ings with the Kings this season. 
Rob Blake and Russ Courtnall scored goals just 1:24 apart midway through the third, as the Kings snapped a 3-3 tie. Stumpe! had a goal in all three periods, including the final tally of the game. 
Blake snuck in from the right point on a power play and re-directed a left-point pass from Stumpe! for his 12th goal of the season, giving the Kings a 4-3 lead with 10:48 remaining. Courtnall netted his fifth goal of the season with 9:24 left to make it a 5-3 game, one-timing a shot from the slot. 
Stumpe! then completed the hattrickwith 3:16 to play. Garry Galley's shot from the point was stopped by [)wayne Roloson, but Stumpe! gathllnld the rebound at thn right side of the crease and flipped a shot from a tough angle ovtlr the fallen goaltender for his 17th goal of the season. 



~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Controller 
Ap}Jlicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is respon­sible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
Please submit a three-page personal statement to Heather Cocks, 314 La Fortune, by Monday, February 9. Contact Tom Roland at 634-5313 for more information. 
Wednesday, February 4, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 


Cam.;pus Ministr)' Events 



OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 
112 Badin Hall 
631-5242 
Basilica Officl>s 
631-8463 
Web site: 
www.nd.cdu./-ministryI 
Wednesday, February 4, 7:30-8:00pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel Contemporary Prayer· 
An Inter-denominational Prayer Service featuring the new Contemporary Choir. 
Of special interest: . NOW! Sign up for the February 6-7 Freshmen Retreat for residents of Badin, Dillon, Lewis, Morrissey, Pasquerilla East, St. Ed's, Walsh and Zahm. Please see your Rector or stop by Campus Ministry,l03 Hesburgh Library for application forms. 
. Welcome to our gay and lesbian students Campus Ministry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, odhose discerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett @ 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confidential. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Not r e Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
Actors from the London Stage 
Biddy Wells will present Beyond the Grave: ASelection of Ghosts in Stories, Poems, and Epitaphs 
Tuesday, February 3 
4:30 p.m., Washington Hall Free and open to the public 
Peter Lindford will present 
The Poetry of Philip Larkin: The Poems of a Very Private Man 
Wednesday, February 4 
4:30 p.m., Washington Hall Free and open to the public 
The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 
• 
•NBA 
Maxwell signs with Hornets, leads victory 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

Vernon Maxwell, signed by Charlotte to a 10-day contract earlier in the day, hit the go­ahead basket for the Hornets in a 93-89 victory over the Boston Celtics on Tuesday night. 
Maxwell scored 15 points on 5-for-12 shooting in 27 min­utes. He added five rebounds and three assists in his debut for his fifth team in his nine­year NBA career. 
Matt Geiger had 24 points, David Wesley added 15 and Anthony Mason had nine points, 11 rebounds and nine assists for the Hornets. Glen Rice had 14 points, but just two in the fourth quarter. 
Antoine Walker had 23 points, 16 rebounds and five assists for Boston, which forced 23 turnovers and con­verted them into 25 points. 
The Celtics fell to 4-17 on the road and were without second-leading scorer Ron Mercer, who did not make the trip because of a stomach virus. Mercer, who had aver­aged 23 points in two games against Charlotte this year, was replaced in the lineup by Dee Brown, who had 20 points. 
Brown hit a 3-pointer with 21 seconds left before Maxwell closed the scoring on a fus~break ~yup at the 11­second mark. 
Orlando 91 Atlanta 90 

Bo Outlaw's jumper in the lane capped a 23-point,17­rebound performance and gave the Orlando Magic a 91­90 victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday night. 
The game-winning shot, with 1.1 second remaining, came after Atlanta's Mookie Blaylock blocked Mark Price's off-balance jumper and Outlaw retrieved the ball just in front of the free-throw line. 
Price and Rony Seikaly each scored 12 points for Orlando, which won for only the second time in its last 10 games. 
Steve Smith led Atlanta with 

18, including a pair of free 
throws that trimmed the 
Magic's lead to 89-88. Blaylock had 15 points, nine assists and eight steals. 
The Hawks led 50-48 at halftime, wiping out most of a 12-point deficit with a 10-0 run led by Alan Henderson, who scored 11 in the period, and Blaylock, who had six of his steals in the first half. 
Tyrone Corbin, whose last basket gave Atlanta a 90-89 lead with 7. 7 seconds left, and Christian Laettner each scored 14 for the Hawks. 
Milwaukee 82 New York 78 

Tyrone Hill grabbed a cru­cial rebound and sank two -­free throws with 2.6 seconds left to seal Milwaukee's sixth straight victory, 82-78 over the New York Knicks on Tuesday night. 
Terrell Brandon had 20 points for the Bucks, who won their third straight over New York. 
Allan Houston led the Knicks with 20 points in their first game at the Bradley Center since center Patrick Ewing injured his right wrist and was lost for the season. 
Ray Allen had 17 points for Milwaukee and Glenn Robinson 15. Ervin Johnson had 14 rebounds. 
Larry Johnson's putback with 27 seconds left pulled New York to 80-78, and Chris Childs tipped Hill's inbounds pass to teammate Charles Oakley with 18 seconds left. 
But Houston's jumper was off the mark with three sec­onds remaining. Hill got the rebound and was immediately fouled by Oakley. 
Houston 110 Vancouver 97 

Charles Barkley led a thiro­quarter charge as the Houston Rockets celebrated the return of Hakeem Olajuwon with a 110-97 victory over the Vancouver Grizzlies last night. 
The Rockets led 57-50 at 
halftime before Barkley 
scored 15 of his 25 points in 
the third, keying a 15-6 run to 
start the period that helped 
the Rockets take an 84-71 
lead into the fourth quarter. ­
We will be 

Thursday, February 5 
7:00pm 
O'Shag Room 114 
I 
, I I I I I 


I
I 
I page 18 
I I 
I 

I W.Hoops
I 
continued from page 20 
shot off the glass. With 3:32 remaining, a layup by Riley gave the Irish a 67-65 lead and foreed another Miami timeout. 
After hitting their next two baskets, the Irish were plagued with numerous mis­takes for the rest of the game. With l :24 remaining. Hiley got her fifth foul and was forced to the bench. After taking a 74-71 lead. Notre Dame got the basketball back with 52.3 seconds Je ft. but Siemon ~urned the ball over when try­mg to pass to Green on the in­bound. Hope then used a bucket and a free-throw to tie the game with 38.5 seconds 
Notre Dame Women•s Basketball 
NDIVIDUAL STATS NO PLAYER FG 3P FT REB PTS MIN 
03 50 00 33 20  Peirick Siemon Riley lvey McMillen  4 7 5 2 0  3 0 0 0 0  
12 40 42 32 35 44 41  Green Braendly Hutchinson Henderson Leffers Leahy Dunbar  7 1 0 3 DNP­ONP­DNP­ 0 0 0 0  
Totals  29  3  
SCORE BY PERIODS  
Notre Dame  
Miami  
ATTENDANCE: 727  

SAINT MARY'S DANCE WORKSHOP CO. 
n, .·. r--r 
.­
-presents • ' 
. :·· --, .., -'' ~f(.'{' 
. . ' ~~'V ' 
~~Q' ' ~'t.G 

~¢'\ ., A ·~. r r.;,'Uf(.~ / J ~ c;,\~\. ...\Ge.,V~, •l .~ FR1. • FEB. 13 oi\8 P.M. 
~\\' '~ .
~f(.~~ . SAT. • FEB. 14 • 8 P.M. 
SUN.· FEB.15 • 2:30 I?.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 



~~=u~=~...~~.k~v.J~ 
~ORDERS BY PHONE: 2844626 ·J ·.·. F \.._;.?~nt· P.f.llilf!, IN 
oo~rp~oo
. ' . . 

~n@~~: orr11oocru~~Jg, 
From Your Dawgs 

left. Moments later, the Irish turned the ball over again, and Hope hit a jumper to give the 'Canes a 76-74 lead. 
With seven seconds in regula­tion, Green hit a driving five­foot layup to tie the game. However, on Miami's last pos­session, Blue was fouled by senior Kari Hutchinson on a questionable call with no time remaining. Blue then calmly hit the free throw to end the game in regulation. 
Notre Dame was led by Green, who, despite missing the previous contest against Seton llall. scored 18 points to go along with her three rebounds versus Miami. Peirick had an outstanding game, nearly miss­ing a triple-double with 11 points, eight rebounds and nine assists. Riley scored 16 points and blocked four shots in 22 
0  8  11  40  
0  5  14  25  
6  4  16  22  
2  6  6  35  
0  0  0  20  
6  3  18  15  
2  1  4  10  
2  1  1  23  
1  2  6  10  
19  30 76  200  
1  2  
34  42  
30  47  

The Observer· SPORTS minutes of playing time. Siemon finished with 14 points and five rebounds to round out most of the Irish cast. The Hurricanes had four players in double figures, led by Hope with 20 points and 11 rebounds. Blue finished with 14 points, while Drury and Jordan had 16 and 17 points respectively. The loss, Notre Dame's sec­ond straight loss on the road, dropped the Irish to 8-5 in 'the Big East and 14-7 overall. Meanwhile, the Hurricanes improved to 8-4 in the confer­ence and 13-7 overall. The Irish will have nine days to recover before they hit the court again, this time against St. John's. The tip off against the Red Storm is scheduled for Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Holy Cross Priests and Brothers are offering a "day-away" for men who are discerning a possible vocation in the Church. This will be an opportunity to take some time and quietly listen to the Lord. Hear some of the guys who have answered the call. Take the time for yourself. 
Where: Mary's Solitude (behind St. Mary's College) When: Fri., Feb. 13 (7pm)-Sat., Feb. 14. (8:30pm) Cost: $10 


For more information (and to sign up), please contact: Fr. Bill Wack, CSC 1-6385 email: Wack.2@nd.edu 

Answer the Call! 

?~o/1:$ r{f~~:g1fl7j~(j:$ y~~~~~ /$~@rH 7/~A? $FP~~o/JA~ ~@'tlft~@'ffJ~ 7J~¥fj7J 'flj@fit 

,~MM'fb ~,rJ~~/1 
~ 

OosERUER UnLENTINE Ros Now RuniLRBLE 
SAMPLE Ao: Please call 631-6900 Between lOam and Spm Monday thru Friday to reserve your Valentine ad. 
Wednesday, February 4, 1998 
,~.~sPoRts BRIEFs 
Shorin·Ryu Karate -This semester-tong course meets in Rockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6-7:30 p.m. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $18. Call1-8237. 

· Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance · class will be offered Saturdays and Tuesdays from 12 p.m.­
1:30 p.m. {Sat.) and 8-9 p.m. \(Tues.) in Rockne Rm. 301. ' Cross Country Ski Clinics -
RecSports will be sponsoring three clinics this winter. The clinic will be offered on Saturday, Feb. 7, .at 2 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $4 rental fee if you need to rent skis. Registration in advance is required for all three cross­country ski clinics. 

It's Time to Pray 
• 

Aikido -Classes on Monday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in Room 301, and Friday from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. in Room 219 in Hockne. Bring comfortable clothes. 
Female runners-For run­ning pari.ners, motivation, new routes, and friends, one can become part of the newly­formed Women's Running Club: Come for an int'orma­tional meeting on Thursday, Feb. 5 at 4:30 p.m. in LaFortune's Dool~y Room. If you'd like, come dressed to run afterwards. Also, look for sign-up sheets in dorms and around campus. If you have any questions or would like to help lead the club, Call Hene at 4·2849 or Ashley at 4·1211. 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Wednesday, February 4, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

Facts of Life" 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last -.-"-'-_...::...... 25 Clerical scarf 43 Merit 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
page 19 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: 
Today finds you fiscally conserva­
live. Others may be puzzled or annoyed 
by your sudden inflexibility. Relax after 
making your investment. After a cer­
tain point, it"s out of your hands. 
Taurus: 
Think big thoughts today, and then 
take that extra step of putting them 
into action. Look your best as you go 
for what you want The confidence you 
radiate all but guarantees your sue­
cess. 
Gemini: 
Be patient today and keep a tight 
rein on your energy. Squandering your 
resources in irritation might leave you 
short on something you'll need later. 
Unforeseen obstacles may actually 
work to your advantage. 
Cancer: 
Your outgoing mood is best 
expressed by hosting or planning a 
group activity. The Taurus Moon turns 
you into a fountain of good cheer and 
inspiration. This is a fertile time for 
you. 
Leo: 
You may think that a project has 
reached il• satisfactory conclusion, but 
not everyone agrees. This is a day on 
which money has the loudest voice. Try 
to keep smiling on your way back to the 
drawing board. 
Virgo: 
This is a great day for completing 
things. With your usual patience and a 
burst of good luck. a project turns out 
even better than expected. Your happi­
ness takes on a deeper, more spiritual 
quality today. 
EUGENIA LAST 

Ubra: 
It is time to stop admiring your accomplishments and start moving for­ward again. You may have some diffi­culty getting motivated. Begin with small bites instead of trying to consume the whole thing at once. 
Scorpio: 
Remember that opinions are no sub­stitute for facts. Certain realities exist even if other people have different ideas about what it all means. Compromise is crucial if you hope to get anywhere today. 
Sagittarius: 
Being stubborn and single-minded is great for your resolve. but causes you to lose some of the finer details. Nothing will stop you. not even the fragile feel­ings of others. You are prepared to pay any price for what you want 
Capricorn: 
Matters of the heart deserve to be at the top of today's list. Emotional com­mitment. or the promise of it. out­weighs all other obligations. Love will enrich your life more fully than any­thing else. 
Aquarius: 
Your family"s demands on your time may be irritating. but remember that these are the people you love the most. Time spent at home becomes a rich and satisfying experience. Be your best today. 
Pisces: 
This is a time to emote and shaw some compassion. Feelings are empha­sized over facts today. A facial expres­sion communicates more than words could say. 






Wanted: Reporters, and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
• 

51Wtd annual Vdenline ~, 
Sunday, Pe6ruary 15, 2-4 pm •• 
CJ?JJ(fs Sports 1?.§creation Center }l{{proceeds support }lmerican Jfeart .!Jvlontfi and tfie }lmerican Jfeart }lssociation. 
?rl..ak? your lieart fee{ good and someone efse's fee{ even 6etter! 

-

~pace~ are ~till available in 
,mf.IJJY·"~itne~~ .... Gias~e~. :ii;{ji!''Wi'· C~IIID6100 

for more information. 
For more Info. Contact: RecSports -1-6100 www.nd.edu/-re1csport 
.,. 

DILBERT 
TI·H!; 15 AN BABY, L£55 WEE\<.. OLD. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 A pm may go through 11 5 C1rrus cloud formation 9 Ankylosaur feature 14 Base 
15 Angelic symbol 16 Sabbatical. e.g. 11 One of TV's 
S1mpsons 18 One-named supermodel 19 It's spoken in Kuala Lumpur 20 Improvise, as a 
historian? 23 Deli buy 24Impatient 27 Pane frame 29Rat 
AUTHENTIC IH~N ONE 
31 Can. heads 
34 Ramsey Lewis Tno song about Taoists? 
36 Witness stand 
statement 38 Bear lair 39 Cinders in old 
strips 40 Film about burgling 
partners? 45 Count finish 46 What "nobody 
doesn't like" 47 Hankers 49 Old Renault so One-person 
boats 54 Baker's quote from "Romeo and Juliet'"? 

AS l FEED THIS AUTHENTIC BABY IN FRONT Or 'YOU, RECALL HOW BIG M.Y STOMI\CH 
58 N1cholas Gage best seller 61 Gardener"s role 621n-·-(as follnd) 63 Kind of mach1ne 64 Late Norwegian kmg 65 Set foot (on) 
66 Braves Hall-of-Famer Warren 
67 Townshend of the Who 68 Horned vipers 
DOWN 

1 Benefits 2 Spain's Saint 
Teresaof-­3 Rope fiber 4 Spanish 
beaches 5Milky 6 A foot in a line 7 Do in 
26 Caterwauls

a Small liqueur glass 2BWaffle 9 Fact-filled 29 Cheap-seeming reference 
30 Vitamin bottle 10 One of a bicycle info pair 
31 Florists' needs 11 Bad start? 
32Taj-­12 They're 
33 Cubic meter

fertilized 35 Verily
13 Juan Carlos, 
e.g. 37 Fragrant lily 
41 Jubilance my ropeI" 
21 "--the end of 42 Jewell of "The 
SCOTT ADAMS 

50, DO I STILL NEED A NOTE FROI"\ 1"\Y DOCTOR TO EXPLAIN 1"\Y I\65ENCE..? 
YE5J UNLESS YOU CAN PROVE WHERE MICKEY ROONE'< IS RIGHT 
NOW. 

44 Black 56 Lacquered 48 Rest alter 
metalware 

almuerzo 57 0lympics 51 Expositions preliminary 52 Camera setting sa Staff of Life: 
Abbr.

53 Supports for laths 59 Impudence 55 Kind of talk 60 Greek letter 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the 
~----------------~----~--~~~--~---------------------.~--------~-------~----­



SPORTS 
page 20 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 

'Canes swallow Irish 
By BILL HART Notre Dame took control at Sporrs Writer the start, using its tenacious defense to go on a 10-2 run in Last year at Miami, the the first eight minutes of play. Fighting Irish women's bas-Six of the first 10 points for ketball team pulled ofT a last the Irish were scored by minute drive to defeat Miami freshman Kelley Siemon. 71-70 on its r==============="' After calling
home court. Women's The win even­tually proved crucial in the Big East Tournament seedings two weeks later. 
This year, however. it was the llurrieanes who got their revenge. 
Following one of the most eontroversial offieiating calls in the Big East this season, Miami's Octavia Blue hit a free throw with no time remamtng to push the Hurricanes past the Irish by a score of 77-76. 
a 20-second timeout, the Hurricanes were finally able to end their drought with a bucket by Jennifer 

Jordan. When the lead was cut to 10-6, Notre Dame went on another 7-2 run to increase its advantage to nine points. 
However, the Irish were never able to pull away to double figures. The lead flue­tuated between six and 10 points for the rest of the half, as every basket was answered on the next posses­sion. After a pair of free throws by sophomore Niele lvey extended the lead to 23-16, Jordan stuffed a basket and drew a foul. After making the free throw with 


5:00 left in the half, the lead was cut to four. On the ensu­ing possession, freshman Ruth Riley lobbed in a pass from the paint to push the lead back up to six. 
With 1:25 remaining in the half, the Hurricanes had a ehance to make it a one-point game after Blue drew a foul, but she missed both free throws. Junior Julie Henderson then made a quick layup to give Irish a five-point lead. Miami then hit one 
The Observer/Kevin Dalurn 

free throw to eut 
Despite Notre Dame's lack of three-point attempts in the first half, Mollie Peirick
the visitors' lead to 
connected on three of five attempts in the second. 
34-30 going into the locker room. Diana Braendly. After Peirick The Hurricanes eontinued 
Perimeter shooting was hit another three-pointer, lvey to creep closer to the Irish, never a factor in the first half, passed the ball to Braendly, and another long-range shot as the 'Canes went 0-for-9 who promptly put in a layup from Drury cut the lead to 53­from beyond the arc. Notre to push the lead to 46-3 7. 52. After a 20-second Notre Dame's only attempt, from Dame timeout, Siemon, senior Mollie Peirick, .-----------------, nursing a strained muscle, bounced off the rim of the put up a layup to extend basket. the lead. Moments later, 
In the second half, Mt.ami· 7 7 Hiley was replaced in the 
Miami's Shannon Drury lineup, and promptly quickly made it a one-scored a layup to push the point game with the first Notre Dame 7 6 lead to 59-56. Miami 
three-pointer of the night. answered with a three-Moments later, however, pointer to tic the game. Jordan got her fourth foul After an Irish turnover, and was promptly placed Drury hit another shot on the bench. Riley gave from beyond the arc to Notre Dame its first points of The score promptly eaused give the llurricancs their first the half on an easy layup, the 'Canes to call a full time-lead of the game at the 5:45 while Peirick used a out to regroup. On the ensu-mark. Peiriek then responded Hurricane turnover to answer ing possession, Braendly was with a three of her own to tie Drury's three with a long-called for her fourth foul, the game again. After anoth­range shot of her own. forcing her to join Riley on er basket by the home team, 
With 16:36 left in the game, the bench. A three-pointer by Green tied it up again with a Riley drew her fourth foul and senior MeChelle Murray cut was substituted by junior the lead to 48-44. see W. HOOPS I page 18 
• fOOTBALL 
Signing Day equal to judgment day for Davie 
• By BETSY BAKER as last season's first game was. So far, the Irish have landed Today is as mueh a judgment By recruiting one of the top Ao;sociate Sports Editor Today, Davie will receive in ink 21 verbal recruits, and, as of last day for Davie as it is for the classes in the nation, Davie will what will be a major predictor of night, still had two hanging in whole Irish team. lie is not eom­have accomplished what he was Those who r-------, the future of Notre Dame foot­the balance. The projected ing ofT the heels of a controver­trying to accomplish all along in thought Notre ball. Notre Dame class of 2002 is sial coaching change, and he is '97 -to convince people to have Dame head Granted, last year's recruiting arguably one of the top three not trying to establish himself at a little faith in him and his football eoaeh class was Davie's first official classes in the nation, decorated Notre Dame. coaching staff. And while Bob Davie's class. However, this year, Davie with names like Arnaz Battle, Davie established himself as nobody will soon forget the roller \ dnbut was has climbed down from the Carlos-Pierre Antoine, and Javin the new coach of the Irish last coaster ride otherwise known as last Sept. 6 horse he rode in on and gotten Hunter. But what remains so season, and it is now time for last season, those who criticized against his hands dirty. lie has endured important about today is not only him to become a successful Davie and compared him to Gnorgia Tech the long walk of a 7-6 season, what the incoming talent will do coach of the Irish. Despite end­Gerry Faust might have to think were only and faced head on the challenge for the Irish, J:iut also what it will ing with a winning record, Bob twice about their decision. partially cor-of convincing the class of 2002 do for a coach who has endured Davie would probably be the first If there is anyone Irish fans rnet. that it will get better. as much of an extreme mixture person to tell you that he is far can trust about the potential of 
Today is as much of an indica­And it appears to have of criticism and support as has from satisfied with the 1997 sea­tor of the kind of coach Davie is worked. President Clinton. son. 
see SIGNING DAY I page 12 


... 
., 
Men's Basketball 
., 
at Rutgers, February 5, 7:30 p.m. Women's Basketball 
vs. St. Johns, February 12, 7 p.m. ., Hockey vs. Bowling Green, February 6, 7 p.m. 

., 
Tennis 
at Rolex National, 
aJ •NBA All-stars gather for NY showing 
February 5 Track and Field ~ 
see page 17

., ..... ~ 
Meyo Invitational, February 6 •Ciccarelli 9th to reach 600 goals Basketball 
see page 16 vs. Franklin College 

s~
.,\!., 

February 8, 2 p.m. ~ 








