
• Missed your first class this morning? 
• Football co-captain Kory Minor goes down with 
Tuesday

• Alarm clock flashing 12:00? 
ankle injury, expected back soon. 
AUGUST 25, 

News • p. 4 
1998
Sports • P. 24 

THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO.2 WWW.ND.EDU/ OBSERVER 
Saint Mary's wins top rank for fifth straight year 
By M. SHANNON RYAN the dodication and commit-ty resourees, financial ernie reputation, scoring a 3.6 These results, which 
Saim Mary's Editor ment of the many people who resources and alumni giving. on a 5.0 seale. accounted for 25 percent of 
comprise the Saint Mary's The College tied with three "This certainly adds another the score, were then combined 
Tho congratulatory banner family," said note oferedibility and with information provided by 
hanging in front of Saint school president ---------------------enhances the image the schools and data collected Mary's for tht~ past yoar was by other sources.
Marilou Eldred. 'THIS RANKING IS ANOTHER we have," said Patti just rt'plaeml by one serawled Besides the over-Valentine, director of Statistics measuring acade­with tho word "Bravo!". all top ranking, tho AffiRMATION OF THE QUAL-public relations. mic quality, student selectivi­For tho fifth eonsoeutivo magazine named ITY OF THIS INSTITUTION AND A U.S. News and ty, faculty resources, retention yPar, Saint Mary's Collt!ge has Saint Mary's num-World Report tabulat-rate and alumni giving were had rt)ason to take a bow after bcr one in the indi-TRIBUTE TO THE DEDICATION AND ed the rankings by included in reaching an over­
U.S. News and World Heport vidual category of COMMITMENT OF THE MANY PEo-conducting a reputa-all score. nanwd it·tlw numbor one Only Susquehanna 
Midwnst rngional liberal arts ~~~:~:.~1tioi~di~~~~~~ PLE WHO COMPRISE THE SAINT ~ita~~~ :~r~e1r~ft~1f!i~ University in Pennsylvania has school. whether a school 1£._--'----........J MARY'S FAMILY' 1,400 accredited received a number one rank­Saint Mary's has ranked in is retaining and four-year colleges ing for five straight years in tho top I 0 of its category, graduating those and universities. any of U.S. News' categories. which ineludes 1:~IJ institu­who enroll as MAR/LOU ELDRED College presidents, St. Mary's tied this record tions. evnry year of the 12-freshmen. SAINT MARY's PRESIDENT provosts and deans of with its position for 1997-98. yPar ranking systnrn. Saint Mary's also---------------------admission rated all U.S. News and World "This ranking is anothnr plar.ed in the top the schools in the Heport's annual survey ranks afl'irrnation of the quality of ten in three of the four other institutions for the high-same category as their own a wide range of U.S. eolleges this institution and a tribute to remaining categories of faeul-est rating in the area of acad-institutions. in several categories. 
Five players sanctioned by NCAA· 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Associate News Ediror 
Five currnnt Notre Dame football play­ers have be('n reinstated following a dec­laration of their ineligibility to the NCM. 
Fom of the playNs in question. accord­ing to Fox 28 News, junior .Jarious .Jackson and defensive lineman Lamont Bryant. running back Autry Denson and co-captain linebacker Bobbie Howard, all seniors. The identity of the fifth player is still unknown. 
Norw or tho playors named WOl'll imme· diatolv available for comment.· 
TIH; University deelared the players ineligibiP with a requnst for imnHldiatn reinstatement as part of the ongoing self­reporting process with the NCAA. That procHss is ttw J'HSttlt of allegations this past spring that current and former foot­ball players received inappropriate gifts, including trips. jewelry and dothing. from area rosidtmt Kimbedy Ann Dunbar. 
Although tlw NCAA has not handed down any formal decision or statement. thn rPinstatement devHIOpt~d through a series of conversations between it and the University in regards to their investiga­lion. 
Tho playnrs' reinstatement was satis· factory to the NCAA under the condition that the players make a contdbution to any charity that is equal to the overall cost of the benefit they received during a trip to see a Chic·ago Bulls game, said Dnnnis Moore, director of Public Hnlations and Information at Notre Dame. That f'igure would be derived from the cost of thn ticket and any souvenirs, meals or other gifts they received in con­nection with the outing. 
The players will be absolved f'rorn any furthl11' eolllHH:tion to the matter. 
Tlw NCM revealed in ongoing discus­sions thnt two violations occurred in con­unction with Dunbat·'s involvement with players. Tho NCAA ruled that, as a dues­paying member of Notre Dame's 





Judge considering increase in lawsuit awards for Moore 
By MICHELLE KRUPA He thinks he can still make football program and learned 
News Ediror some contributions as offen­of the incidents. he had no 
sive line coach." ehoice but to fire the assistant 
In July, former offensive line Those larger issues extend eoaeh. 
coach Joe Moore won his age­beyond Moore's claims of age "If there is ever an instance 
discrimination lawsuit against discrimination. In Davie's of physical abuse, sueh as 
Notre Dame, winning a settle­defense, the University said punching people in the face or 
ment of $86,000. that physical abuse of players anything that is akin to that, 
Now, the University must led to the termination of this department will not stand 
wait to sec if that amount gets Moore's contract with Notre for it, as was tho case with 
any higher -and it could, by Dame. Joe Moore," athletie director 
as mueh as seven times, Throughout the eourse of Mike Wadsworth said. 
aeeording to director of Public the five-day trial in Lafayette, "Head coaches need to ci·e­
Relations Dennis Moore, no Ind., three former players -atc a work environment 
relation to the former coach. joined by 1998 team captain where that !abuse! doesn't 
U.S. Judge Allen Sharp Mike Rosenthal -testified on happen," hr. continued. "In a could either decide to rein­videotape to being hit o1· situation like this one, a head state Moore, 65, or to award punched by Moore. coach is responsible for him court costs plus front pay "[Chris! Clevenger's testimo­reporting to the athletie direc­for the seven years he claims ny was especially tough," tor what happenod, but if he he would have worked had Dennis Moore said. "He testi­doesn't know, and most often Bob Davie not fired him in fied to incidents of being hit players are not going to come December 1996, when he [by Moore). But at the same forward, no one finds out and began as head eoach. time, the players testified in it keeps going on. Lots of 
"Mr. Moore's first hope is to support of Moore in terms of things you learn with hind­be reinstated in his former their relationship with him -sight." position," said Hiek that he'd taught them a lot." But as testimony mounted, Lieberman. Moore's attorney. Notre Dame claimed the other ugly claims surfaced "He loves Notre Dame, and he alleged abuse had been going that east further shadows on thinks the institution is much on for as long as three years Notre Dame football. larger than some of the issues without its knowledge, and that came out during the trial. that when Davie took over the see MOORE I page 4 
' ,,.~ 
History of Joe Moore at Notre Dame 
~~  ~~  
1988 ~~  joinslrish staff  April 1998 •• tries to settle out of cour1  
1989 --takes over as offensive line coach  ~­ University offers $130,00  
December 1996 --fired  --Moore wants $1.3 million  
February 1997 --filed lawsuit  July 1998 --case goes to trial  
March 1998 ,.-enters talks with university  --court awards Moore $86,000  



page 2 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Religious right may be right 
This past summer I was,-;.======~ able to spend some time in beautiful Spain (which makes me even more thrilled to be back in South Bend, Indiana). Having never really spent much time outside the country before, it was interesting to view the United States Eddie Llull through the eyes of anoth-Viewpoint Editor er culture. 
The Spanish impression of us, for the most part, did not surprise me. We all carry guns and we live on a steady diet of cheeseburgers and hot dogs. But the most frequent comment I heard about the States was a name. Yeah, you guessed it: that Lewinsky woman. 
At first I was surprised that the rest of the world was focusing on the affair as much as we were here in the US (of course they were doing more laughing than focusing). But then I realized that I should not be shocked; we were getting just what we deserved as a country. 
Like many other Americans, I voted for Clinton knowing all too well that he had a nasty habit of becoming friendly with women other than Hillary and then lying about it. Even now, judging by his approval rating, peo­ple just don't seem to care. The people who have made a big deal of the whole affair are just self-righteous hypocrites which may be true. 
Most Americans care more about our presi­dent's performance in his official activities than his extracurricular activities. This atti­tude reflects a general disregard for the importance of family which has grabbed hold of our culture. 
This isn't the first time in our history that our president has reflected the mood of the nation. There was Grant's corrupt administra­tion during the era following the Civil War and Eisenhower's laid-back eight years during a period when the country wanted nothing but to return to normalcy. There was youthful, energetic Kennedy when Americans were ready to look to the future, and of course that shaky administration in the late 1960s to early 1970s as the nation tried to recover from the shakiest decade in our history. The Clinton administration is no different. 
The strength of the family in the United States has been falling apart for years and we have become apathetic to itOs fall. No one wants to hear about family values. If you do then you must be a religious radical. 
So this summer I stopped being embar­rassed by man I voted for every time I heard Lewinsky's name said with a Spanish accent. Instead, I became a little more despondent about living in a society where adultery is accepted. Maybe the religious right has a point after all. Maybe we should talk more about the family and the sanctity of marriage. Maybe we should press a little harder to protect life and eliminate abortion so that it cannot be used as a means of avoiding a serious relationship or covering up an affair. 
For people who are concerned about this downward spiral in our culture, it is encourag­ing to know that the mood of our nation has always been in a state of flux and will once again change. The question is: In what direc­tion will we go? Hopefully we all can learn a lesson from our international humiliation and once again show concern for the family struc­ture in our country. 
As for now, I say let Clinton ride out his term. We're getting what we deserve. 
The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, August 25, 1998 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Oklahoma incident sparks concern over alcohol use 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer.  
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Tim Logan  Sarah Dylag  
Tom Enright  Kristi Klitsch  
Finn Pressly  Graphics  
Sports  Pete Cilella  
Brian Kessler  Production  
Viewpoint  Brian Kessler  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
JeffHsu  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
NORMAN, Okla. 

A fraternity is under investigation, sororities are warning pledges about underage drinking and University Housing will meet this morning to talk about alcohol issues. 
Whatever the action, university groups are making alcohol education a priority after a freshman LambdaChi Alpha pledge was rushed to the hospi­tal from his Couch Center room, fol­lowing heavy drinking at the fraternity house on Bid Day. 
Aaron Reddell, 19, was treated and released at Norman Regional Hospital on Thursday for an alcohol-related ill­ness. Lambda Chi Alpha President Craig Buchan acknowledged that Reddell had been drinking at the house, and said that fraternity mem­bers prayed for the freshman and accompanied him to the hospital. 
He added that a Bid Day party planned for that evening was canceled 
• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 
Students get probation for hate crime 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Raymond Long said he hoped to see justice served when he went to court Friday morning. Instead, two UF students who according to court records attacked him while calling him a 'faggot' got off with "not even a slap on the wrist," Long said. At an appearance in the Alachua County Courthouse, Ali Kakar, 21, and his brother Bismillah, 20, accepted the punishment of one-year pro­bation with 50 community service hours. They must pay $1,371 to cover Long's medical expenses. If the two men complete the probation and pay the restitution, the charges will be erased from their records, according to the plea bargain. The charge was reduced to misde­meanor battery from a felony, even though Florida's hate crime law states any misdemeanor crime committed based upon prejudice will be treated as a felony. "They admitted to the crime and entered a plea," said Assistant State Attorney Greg McMahon. 
• DEPAUW UNIVERSITY 
Fraternities closed for winter term 
GREENCASTLE, Ind. 
This Winter Term, DePauw fraternities will return from Christmas vacation to find Scrooge at their door with an eviction notice for the month of January. Director of Greek Affairs, Teresa Loser, said the university will be shutting down fraternity houses during Winter Term. "Bottoms said the fraternity houses will be closed beginning this Winter Term," Loser said. The announcement has been passed to all of the fraternity house corps presidents, who were in favor of the move. "They were very happy about it," Loser said. "I think most of them had thought about it, but they wanted the University to do something about it." Steve Ray, house corps president for Delta Chi, said the changes are positive. "I think from a health-liability point of view that it will be a positive move so long as the university will find housing for upperclassmen," Ray said. 
• OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Statistics may underestimate rape risk 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

There have been at least six reports of rape in Ohio State fraternity houses since January 1997, but the number of actual rapes may be higher. due to the unwillingness of some victims to file reports. Michael Scarce, who until June served as the coordinator of the Rape Education and Prevention Program at QSU, com­piled a file of reported rapes at OSU area fraternity houses. The file included seven reports of rape, not all occurring in fraternity houses, from the Columbus Division of Police from January 1997 to May 1998. A similar request for rape reports to the Columbus Division of Police came up with only two reports from the same time period. The difference could not be explained by police officials. Six rapes were reported to have occurred at OSU fraternity houses between 2 a.m. and 4 a.m. Two rape reports were made at one house, Beta Theta Pi. 
• GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
Increased security greets students 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

Most GW students are taking in stride the possibility of living blocks away from potential terrorist targets. While security has been stepped up at federal buildings and monuments in recent days, students continue to move into residence halls and attend orientation sessions with­out much thought to concrete blockades and Secret Service patrols nearby. "There are so many things on the horizon," said Elliott School of International Affairs undergraduate adviser Mary Delacluyse. "Security is just not an issue for students right now." The security alert came in response to President Clinton's decision to bomb suspected terrorist sites in Afghanistan and Sudan Thursday. Several GW students said they are confident in the security provided by University and D.C. law enforce­ment officers. 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Tlesdatstemperatures 
.......................................+0_ ('': 

"We're all in shock because this just doesn't happen in our house," Buchan said in an interview at the Lambda Chi house Sunday. "On Bid Day, it's hard to get control of 1 00-some-odd excited men. Something like this could have happened at every greek house in the OU community." 
The chapter is under investigation in accordance with the Student Code, said Beth Stathos, greek adviser in the Center for Student Life. That entails talking to all students involved in the incident, she said. Until the investiga­tion is concluded, Stathos cannot offer details. 
In another Bid Day incident, under­age drinking was reported at the Beta Theta Pi house, according to OU Department of Public Safety records. 
While responding to a parking com­plaint at the house, a police officer was verbally abused by Beta members, the report states. The officer wrote that fraternity officers curbed the underage drinking and no arrests were made. 
A Couch Center resident adviser said his floor will offer a counseling pro­gram Tuesday night that deals specifi­cally with alcohol-related issues. 
David Schrage, University Housing and Food Services director, met with residence hall staff members on Friday for a brainstorming session on how to educate and prevent incidents like the one that occurred Thursday night. 

Tuesday  84 72  
Wednesda~  81} 68  
Thursday~  79 62!  

=·.~:c.·:: 

Friday ~(<.;~.~·· 70. Satur~ay (~·-·· ··t7'7t 
;·~.;-f?'./~;····"". ...'.,../~ "1,:"'" 

4,~,~~~~~ ~ c£[1 
Showers T·slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Atlanta  91  85  Dallas  95  77  Miami  92  76  
Baltimore  95  84  Denver  93  63  New York  82  70  
Balon Rouge  95  89  Honolulu  87  76  Phoenix  109  90  
Chicago  84  71  Indianapolis  87  67  St. Louis  94  76  
Columbus  89  64  Los Angeles  83  68  Seattle  76  57  


~--~-----­
Tuesday, Augusr 25, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
More choices, new cafe come after renovation of South 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
A"mi<ltt' New' Editor 
l{p;tJ platPs, bPttl~r sPll't'tion of food. and a Starburks frappuri­IHI to wash down dinrwr. 
ThosP things had nothing in t'omnwn with South Dining llall last yPar. llut al'tPr a SWPPping r1•11 tlvati on of t lw build i11 g, Noll'!' Damt• studPnts havP IIIOl'l' mt~alt.imt• options, this lillll' without Styrofoam platPs, plaslir rutlPry and liHld import­Pd from tlw North Dining llall. 
On!' dramatir rhangP is with tlw original food st~rvin· an~a. I'I'IWIIII'd thP South IJining llall Food MarkPt to rPI'll'rt tlw arrangt'llll'lll of tlw dining hall farilitv. 
Dav·P l'n•ntkowski, Din·dor of u....o--~,.... 
hJOd SPrvicl's said thn dnsign-. . PI'S tril'd to n~rrnatn tlw look of Reekers hils up wrth patrons on a recent afternoon. a farmnr's market, modeling it 
from wood-!ired pizzas to veggie-wraps and f'romal'tm· tlw Marclwt rnst.aurant in Toronto and Food smoothies to made-to-order selections. 
Lift• rnstaurant in Chicago. Tlwsn two models inte­
"There's no other college campus that I'mgralt~d varinty and customization, which 
aware of that has a wood-fired pizza oven," saidl'rPntkowski said Wl'rn among the priorities in l'rentkowski. "That's a very unique feature. WerPvamping tlw dining hall. 
thought [it[ would be a unique focal point." 
In the IWW format, diners will be privy to much Named for Clement Reekers, the University'sof tiH~ preparation of their food, which will be first student, the restaurant was meant to meetdorw in tlw main service area. That area is divid­both the need for on-campus social space and toPd into twoJvn SI'CtiOnS according to type of' food. 
oll'er a departure from dining hall food.
Tlw structurn is similar in tlwory to the eatery Bishop Dan Jenky suggested the name, whichformat of North Dining llall, but all the sections Prentkowski said was selected because it's short,an~ ronsolidatt~d into one main location. Planners memorable, relevant and a unique designation.
also took care in naming and decorating the sec­Students submitted other suggestions, including 
tions to avoid limiting the possibilities lilr the f(wd snrvPd thnre. 
".Th~ M.~x," .'.'The B~ue ~yster," "Southern Comfort, and Notre Dmer. 
''WI' didn't want to til' any an~ a into a particular "In a lot of ways we wanted it to be the opposite Pt.hnir cuisi1w," said l'rnntkowski. Chefs are of The Huddle," said Prentkowski. That motivation al'l'orded morP flexibility in planning meals intra­led to a design plan that includes table and barduring exotic alttlrnatives. without sacrificing the stool eating areas as well as more relaxed socialsignilkance of the area design. . 
areas.
"01w can do a lot of things with stir-fry that are Reekers will also have board games and com­rlParly not Asian," l'rentkowski noted as an exam­puter HesNet hook-ups, aswell as a stage and the
ph•. 
capacity to host outdoor performances in its patioBut for a brPak from the dining hall routine, stu­
seating area. In the face of the South Quad
dPnts ran look to South Dining llall's othnr major changes, North Dining Hall remains mostly theaddition, HPckers, a 24-hour cafe loeatod behind same. But food options did increase -it nowtlw building. 
offers sandwich wraps in llavored tortilla shellsI!Pt:knrs boasts both a Starbueks and a Freshens and a refurbished stir-fry area.
Yogurt franchise, and students ean got anything 
Welcome Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, Faculty, Staff and Students Papa invites you to get a 
~·!<-:~ '"<?•• 
. I 


$5 Certificate 

for FREE* 
*Join us for Lunch or Dinner between now and September 4, Show your Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross ID and Get a $5 Certificate. 
Rcdccm<tbk at your next l'isit. One ccrtilicatc per I. D. Ccrtilicatc's may nor be combined with any other discount or otl'cr. 
Located at: 511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway (corner of Main St. & Edison Lakes Parkway) Mishawaka, IN (219) 271-1692 RESERVATIONS ACCPTED OPEN: Sunday-Thursday: 11 am -10 pm 
friday-Saturday: ll am -ll pm 


i~e.r.e.-: '~ 
It's Fun, It's Fresh, It's Friendly ... It's the Italian You'll Fall In Love with. 
Campus building goes on and on 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
Assistant News Editor 
After approximately 36,000 man-hours performed by 800 workers, the face of Notre Dame changed again this summP.r as construction crews finished or moved forward on several cam­pus construction projects. 
This summer's progress was typical in both the dollar amounts and time invested, and extended to nearly every cor­ner of the campus, aceording to Mike Smith, director of Facilities Engineering. 
Eek Center 

The nearly li.nished Eck Center will house a new bookstore, Alumni Association offices and a visitors' center. Scheduled for completion early this fall, the Alumni Association and visitors' center should move into the building over Christmas break, according to Smith. who anticipates the new bookstore's grand opening celebration for February's Junior Parents' Weekend. The $10 million project was funded by a donation from Frank Eck, a 1944 alumnus of' the University. 
Academic Additions 

The $5 million Hank Family Center for Environmental Sciences, an addition to the Galvin Life Science Center, has increased the size of that facility by 30,000 square feet, accord­ing to Smith. 
' The new areas include research labs and offices for fawlty and graduate students, said Jack Duman, chair of the depart­ment of Biological Sciences. Other areas include two confer· ence rooms. aquatic labs and storage areas for aquatic organ­isms, a solarium and greenhouses on the roof, according to Duman. 
"This.allows for an expansion, mostly for ecologieal research," Duman said. "Space in the greenhouse and wet Jabs was limited and in pretty poor shape. We needed new green­house research space." 
The project was a gift from Bernard "Jerry" Hank, Jr., an alumnus and trustee, and his wife Joyce McMahon Hank. 
Residence Halls 

The complete renovation of Morrissey Hall was yet another of the campus improvements completed during the summer months. The building was completely gutted and rebuilt, said hall rector Father William Seetch. 
"All interior walls were knocked out and new ones were built," he said. "[We have] new lights, plumbing, sinks, bath­rooms, furniture, stairs and carpet." 
The sidewalks between Lyons, Morrissey and Howard Halls were also landscaped, according to Seetch. "It's a very pretty plc~Cfl ... it looks very nice," he said. However; Seetch is unsure if aU residents will he satisfied. "Some students would be unhappy even in heaven," he said. 
Office Space The renovation of the Main Building is one project still in the works after summer progress. Smith explained. 
"The fifth floor is the most complettl N it's painted and has wood trim, but there's no carpet or antique fixtures !yet!," Smith explained. "The building is less complete as you go down [the floors]." 
The estimated date for completion is July 1, 1999, Smith said. 
Construction to convert Flanner Hall from a residence area to office space was completed this summer, according to Smith. The building now contains sovoral University offices, including Career and Placement Services, the Erasmus Institute and University Press. 


Back-to·Scbool 


Sa.... 
LOOKING FOR INEXPENSIVE 
FURNITURE FOR YOUR DORM ROOM? 
Visit our Western Avenue store for bargains galore. 
TIME TO UPDATE YOUR 
WARDROBE? Stop by our NEW 9~000 sq. ft. store on Cleveland Road West near Meijer. We'll help you stretch your back-to-school dollar! 



page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, August 25, 1998 
should be disband-ed," said has pleaded guilty to two counts Michael Enright, assistant direc­of theft by embezzling more than
Moore Dunbar 
tor of Sports Information. $250,000 from Dominiack 
continued from page 1 

The University counsel said Joe Moore punished sev­eral players with various exercise drills in a parking lot at 1 a.m. during the team's 1996 trip to Ireland. Later, Moore's attorney countered with details of Moore's finding the players watching two cheerleaders having sex in a hotel room, a statement which was never sub­stantiated by the University. 
Even former head coach Lou Holtz got burned in the crossfire. To question Davie's loyalty to Notre Dame football, Lieberman said Davie questioned Holtz's men­taJ stability at the start of the 1996 season. 
"We were trying to show that a reason to fire Mr. Moore could not have been disloyalty to the University in general because coach Davie showed that, through his plotting to get the position of head coach, he was not being loyal to the University either, and that he did­n't respect that notion," Lieberman said. 
"As for the abuse, Mr. Moore admitted to an inci­dent," he continued. "He apologized for it. It was really an aberration that it would never occur again, and in reality, it didn't ever occur again." 
According to Dennis Moore, "Neither of the incidents about Holtz's mental stability or the cheerleader inci­dent should even have been considered because they weren't germane to the case. We weren't doing any­thing to refute them because they were irrelevant. They're just trying to bring up some titillating details. Tlw bad stuff was that Joe Moore was beating up on players, and he admitted it." 
Wadsworth believes the defense was made in an attempt to tarnish the image of Notre Dame. 
"Those comments by Mr. Lieberman were made in an attempt to justify past incidents by his client in the interests of his elient. Obviously this was an effort cal­culated to embarrass the University," Wadsworth said. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Observer Staff Report 

This morning around aa.it);. the eh~tre MnlvE~rsity. campus lost power for approximately 10 t(! 15 min­utes, according to Notre Dame police officer Hick Lipinski. 
No injuries were reported. 

While generators and generated lights allowed for most normal activity to ~~sume within m~n:Utes, the power outage did have do1rtputer syste arm clocks out all over campus; · 
ENTERTAINMENT YOUR WAY! 
Wedding Receptions are
iRANJD§ 

Our Specialty
lJN'LITMIT1CIED • Over 20 Disk Jockeys including a BOOKING AGENCY wide variety of music 
• 
Live Bands 

• 
String Quartets 


• 
Pianists and Harpists 

• 
Vocalists 


• 
And Featuring Moonlight Oasis: 


A blend of OJ, MC,vocalist and219-243-9204 light show 

continued from page 1 
Quarterback Club, Dunbar acted as a representative of the University. Any gifts Dunbar may have given the play­ers prior to her join­ing the Club in 1995 are not under investi­gation by the NCAA. 
Though she was a member of the Quarterback Club, she was not a boost­er, said Moore. "Technically speak­ing, the NCAA decid­
ed that the dues made it a booster organization," although the club was a fan organization and open to any member of the public wishing to pay the $25 annual fee, he explained. 
In a statement released in Mareh, athletic director Mike Wadsworth pointed out that the only benefit of club membership is the right to purchase tickets to the Friday luncheons preceding home football games and that Dunbar had no other current or previous connection with the University or its athletic inter­ests. 
The University maintains that the basis for Dunbar's gifts was her personal relationship with the former players -a relation­ship that includes having a child with former free safety Jarvis Edison. 
Although Notre Dame con­tends that her membership in the club did not merit status as a representative of the University, they have decided to disband the Quarterback Club. 
"We just thought that since it was such a wide-open thing and so easy to join -if that made you a representative, that it 



Introducing ... 


''CASTLE POINT SELECT'' 
Designedfor the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate --just Compare! 
* UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
• 
27" Stereo Television 

• 
Cherry Finished Furnishings 

• 
Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker 

• 
All Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding 


• 

• Plus Much More! 
•
•
•

MILLION DOLLAR RENOVA1IUN •
• 

* LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft) Starting at $494.00 •
• 

* LARGE Two Bedrooms (1 ,025 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 •• 
• 

OR $149.00 per Person with Four Occupants •
• 

Included with rentals for a LIMITED time--FREE full privilege membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including:
* 
New Fitness Center * Outdoor Pool * Beach Volleyball *Sauna & Whirlpool * 3 Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor 

* 
Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts Basketball 


Hurry in for a Tour of the Mo5t Pofular Apartment5 While Thel La5t. 
Castfe :Pointd\}lartmrnts 
Cfevefa.W @ Jronwooo J\oaas 
272~8110 
www.castfe-_polnt.com JMn()ag -Stttur()~ 8 run -6ym Sun<l':lM_ 12pm -5.F" "When~ Ro~a( [ivmg is J\easona6fe" 



Said Moore, "We couldn't allow it to continue given the risk involved that anything that any member did could constitute a violation. It would be foolish of 
' ~ S FAR AS WE KNOW, (GIFTS 
filed a civil Lawsuit 

f"'l.MADE TO PLAYERS] AMOUNT-
seeking $1.4 million in ED TO ONLY A SMALL PERCENTAGE OF damages from Edison, Lee Becton, Ray
THE TOTAL.' 
Zellars, Derrick Mayes and Kinnon Tatum DENNIS MooRE who are listed as eo­defendants. Dunbar's 

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RBAT/ONS 
mother and sister are 

us to say that we eould monitor all of the actions of all of the members." 
Both Moore and Enright indi­cated that although the club was being disbanded, the luncheons would continue and tickets would be available through pub­lic sale, just as they would to any other event on campus. 
The University reported the situation to NCAA officials on March 6 after investigating gifts made by Dunbar to seven former football players between 1993 and 1998. 
The investigation also revealed the involvement of the five cur­rent players as guests of a for­mer teammate for a Chicago Bulls game which was paid for by Dunbar, but found that the players violated no NCAA rules when they accepted the gifts. 
"I think they became aware of [the situation] because she was arrested in St. Joseph County," said Enright, adding that when­ever a Notre Dame student is implicated in a criminal investi­gation it is reported to the University by county prosecutor Michael Barnes. 
Dunbar was charged with and Mechanical, Inc., a local South Bend firm, while she was employed as a bookkeeper there. These crimes carry a penalty of up to 20 years in jail and 
$20,000 in fines. 
Dominiack 
Mechanical has also 
also named in the suit. 
'"As far as we know, [gifts made to players] amounted to only a small percentage of that total," said Moore. "Any gifts that she may have given to our players don't add up to those amounts." 
Moore explained that players are "warned from day-one" about how to respond to poten­tially inappropriate situations, but that his matter is not as clear-cut as it may seem -as evidenced by the lengthy delib­eration processwhich the NCAA endured before making its deci­sion. 
After a 24-member NCAA com­mittee returned a split decision, the matter was then referred to a four member panel which was also divided. 
It was only when the chair of the committee was forced to cast the tie-breaking vote that a vio­lation was determined to have occurred. 
Moore asserted that confusion on the part of the involved play­ers was ·justified in light of the difficulty that a committee of professionals specializing in determining such infractions had in making the decision. 


Tuesday, August 25, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• 0 Flood swamps Texas town 

DEL HIO, T1~xas 

ThP rPmrwnts of Tropical Storm Charley rausPd llooding that waslwd away blocks of lwnws and kiiiPII I(, pnople in drought-strick­nn South Tnxas and Mexico. As many as 30 otlwrs Wl~rP n~portnd missing Monday in DPI Hio. l·:ntirt> rwighborhoods of this T1~xas border town of :l4,000 wPn~ subnwrged as thn llood­watm·s rollnd across tho parched land. Del ltio, whosn cnntnr is thr1~1~ miles from thn Hio c;randn, got nnarly I X inches of rain from Sunday morning to Monday morning. "Tlw llood waw is about a miln wide eoming down tl11• Hio c;randP." said Tom Millwne, statn coor­dinator for tlw Texas Division of Ernnrgency ManagPnwnl. l'olicn ollirnr .John Wilson said 20 to :{0 pnopiP WPrn unaeeountnd for. 
Castro addresses threats 
SANTO DOMINC;O, l}ominican Hepublic 

Dismissing plots and threats against his lifn. Fidnl Castro badn farnwPll to the Dominican HPpublir on Monday. insisting that his l:ommu­nist rPvolution will Pndure long aftnr lw is gorw. "Mpn din. I'Popl1~s are immortal," the 72­ynar-old Cuban lnadm· told a gathering of uni­VPrsity studnnts and lnftist activists in a speech that lastnd rnon~ than five hours. "llistory rnarclws on." To push his point, Castro n.fnrTnd to tlw nxtraordinarily !wavy security surTourHling his fivP-day visit to llw Dominican HPpublir -motivatnd by alleged threats in rPI'Pnt wPnks by Cuban exiles to assassinatn him lwrn. "Nl~rvous'! Maybe yes," he said or ollirial I'OlH'I'f'llS about the threats. But he said hP is not worrir·d about tlw future. ''I'm not wry worriPd about what will happen in Cuba," Castro told his don-nynd audinnce. "The rnal quPstion is 'What will happen in the world?'" 
Police thwart cyanide plot 
MAHINA DEL HEY, Calif. 

AuthoritiPs snarehPd the nation's mail for dPadly lntt.Prs Monday after a cancer patient who may havn a grudge against doctors and polirn was caught stu fling I00 envnlopes with ryan ide par.kaged to look like fren samples of a nutritional supplement. Kathryn Schoonovnr. 
50. was arrnsll~d outside the Marina del Hey post office Sunday. and sheriff's deputies seiwd a box eontaining the letters. They belif'VP slw already had snnt other p1~ople sim­ilar-looking lettnrs. "There's warnings aeross tlw rountry," Postal S1~r·vice lnspeetor George Marsh said. "Wp're not taking any dmnecs." Tlw FBI is also invnstigating. There have been no known deaths rnr.nntly from cyanide mail­ings. Cyanide powder swallowed in tiny amounts r.an kill a JWrson within minutes by r:ausing asphyxiation. 

S&P 500: 
Composite 1088.14 Volume: 
725.500,000

8566.61 +6.')6 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

I !!~II'\~}  lh hi u  'b1i IH~!d  :li il'~l~  I'BU I  
l'l:NNc "OIH' I IN!  1'1(,  b6.lJ7  1.12$  2.HI.I  
IMTNET·AI>I<  ,~.,  17.24  O,b2S  4.250  
H.0\1"1 Ut:OM-APH J.,\N CIIII.E·AI>II IHJ!U.INliH)N/M-WI  \tt)~ I fl. 1\NIW  l.t70 9,:H\ H.K7  O.b25 o . .ln vso  5.1H7 • U7S .IUS  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

R/1 DONNI.I LI.Y IUIIJ -K0.-17 ·1U.HI25 2.625 SIIAW <iROUI' IN( SliR ·.14.02 -S.JH7S 10.0625 CAU.illN t:AR8llN <:u. ·27.82 ·2.5625 6.6250 8llllf.N INC liWC ·25.64 ·6.3125 18.3125 BRUOKF. liROUI' B<.;L ·IB.81 ·1.1875 5.1250 



Tests link Sudanese soil with nerve gas 

ASSOCIATED PHESS 
WASHINGTON 

A soil sample obtained clandestine­ly by U.S. intelligenee led the Clinton administration to conelude that a Sudanesn plant purported to be mak­ing medieine was actually developing a key ingredient in deadly VX nerve gas, a U.S. intelligence official said Monday. 
The Shifa Pharmaceuticals plant in Khartoum, Sudan, was destroyed last Thursday in a U.S. cruise missile attack at the same time that Navy­launched missiles struck at a suspect­ed terrorist base in eastern Afghanistan. In an echo of the contro­versy over the bombing of a purport­ed baby milk factory during the Persian Gulf War, Sudanese officials have protested to the United Nations that the plant made medicine, not weapons. 
Under pressure to back up its claim, the Clinton administration let 
U.S. intelligence ofllcials Monday dis­. cuss some of the evidence that led to the decision to strike. 
One U.S. intelligenee official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the physical evidenee being eited repeatedly by Clinton administration of'fieials is a soil sampll~ "obtained by dandestine m1H1ns" from inside the Sudan plant. The sample showed traces of a substance called EMPTA, or 0-ethylmethylphosphonothioic acid -a material with no commercial uses that is a key ingredient of VX. 
"Once you have it, you're a long way toward the production of VX," said the intelligence official. The material apparently got into the soil immediately outside the plant "either through airborne flmissions or spillage from the manu'facturing process." The official did not describe how the soil sampln was obtained. "This is something we went out of our way to get." 
The administration also conceded for the first time, after eyewitness aecounts from the smoldering ruins of the Shifa plant, that the facility probably also manufactured medi­cines. 
"That facility very well may have been producing pharmaceuticals," State Department spokesman James Foley said. Among other things, the plant had been approved to produce medicine for shipment to Iraq under 
Sudanese women display a picture of Monica Lewinsky during a rally in Khartoum to 
protest the recent American strikes there. 
the humanitarian exception to the U.N.-imposed trade sanctions on that country. 
"But that in no way alters the fact that the factory also was producing precursor elements," Foley said. 
Last week, senior U.S. officials who briefed reporters following the attack said they knew of no commercial products made at the Shifa plant. Eyewitness accounts by Western jour­nalists who toured the wreckage, however, included descriptions of pills and medicine bottles strewn all ovflr the site. 
The U.S. official said American intelligence has been monitoring the 
• 
Shifa plant for more than a year, and developing inl~>rmaiion on its opera­tions and leadership. 
Intelligenee gathered during this effort showed ties between senior executives of the plant and known terrorist groups, ineluding the one headed by Osama bin Laden, the Saudi multimillionaire believed responsible for the Aug. 7 bombings ­of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, he said. Intelligence also linked these exeeutives with people involved in Iraq's weapons develop­ment, including Emad AI Ani, known as the father of Iraq's chemieal weapons program. 


Hurricane threatens U.S. coast 
AsSOCIA1'ED PRESS 
ATLANTIC OCEAN 

Hurricane Bonnie kicked up pound­ing surf and deadly rip tides along the East Coast on Monday as it churned out in the Atlantic with 115 mph wind, its course so erratic that forecasters could­n't say when or if it might bit land. 
"It's driving me bananas,'' said Jert•y Jarrell, director of the National Hurricane Center near Miami. "I've lost almost all my hair just this morning because of that." 
A hurricane watch was issued Monday afternoon for much of the Southeast coast. The National Weather Service said hurricane conditions were possible by Wednesday morning in an area between Savannah, Ga., and the North Carolina/Virginia state line. 
With the storm still far out at sea, many vacationers and surfers stayed put to enjoy the beach while they could, but experienced coastal residents stocked up on emergency supplies or got ready to head for higher ground. 
Emergencymanagement workers at Wilmington, N,.C., an area battered by Hurricane Fran in September 1996, tested their geQerators and stocked up on supplies, including bottles of Maalox and Turns. 
Ronna and David Lewis had already rented a trailer in case they need to move beldngings ·from their home 200 yards from the shore at North Topsail Beaeh, N.C. 
The Lewises stayed on·North Topsail Beach, on one of North Carolina's low­lying barrier islands, when Fran struck. "I really don't want that to happen again," Ms. Lewis said. "I saw too many people lose their homes." 
There were 15 portable generators in stock at A to Z Rentals in Wilmington, N.C., when Vernon Taft opened the business Monday morning, In 15 min­utes, they were.all gone. 
"Everything w~'ve got is committed," he said. "Some people are cutting trees down with chain saws, trees that might fall on their houses." 
By evening, Bonnie was skirting the northeastern side of the Bahamas. The 400-mile-wide storm was celltered about 615 milns southeast ofSavannah, its storm elouds not even reaching the mainland yet. The hurricane was wob· bling toward the northwest at about 6 mph. 
"We're very much concerned about the coast, primarily Goorgia and the Carolinas, but it could still be even as far west as northern Florida," Jarrell said. "It's erratic. It could do something weird." 
The state of Virginia and some coastal conununitil~s elsewhere banned swimming b(leause of rip tides, strong currents near the beaches that were blamed for two drownings over the weekend in South Carolina and Delaware. Hundreds of bathers had to be rescued at New Jersey beaches. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Burger King opens on campus 
rants on cam­
First major pus, but Prentkowski
franchise comes said he hopes the brand
to Notre Dame name will attract enough inter­
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 

est to cover
Assistant News Editor 

additional costs.
For the second year in a 

T h e
row, students returned to 

University
campus to find that The 

will set pricesHuddle got a face-lift, but this at the r:estau­time, the red and orange logo 
rant and
that greeted them was a famil­

plans to par­
iar one. 

ticipate inNotre Dame purchased a 
specials
Burger King franchise and is 

offered by
operating it from The Huddle 

local Burger
in LaFortune Student Center. 

King eateries.
Students with a Flex-14 meal 

Prentkowski
plan can use their points there 

said pricesif a flame-broiled· Whopper 
will be equal
sounds more appealing than 

to or less thanthe dining hall. 
the costs at
The University chose a burg­

other localer restaurant because ham­
franchises,
burgers are the "number one while employ­food concept" in America, said ees will beDave Prentkowski, Director of paid more.

Food Services. 

"We don't
"(This] doesn't have the 

anticipate
regional differences. It's not a 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum m a k i n g a
fad, and it's not going to go Students await their meals from the brand new Burger profit, andaway," he said. "We chose to King in LaFortune. The franchise opened this summer. an.y moneybring in a franchise because of will be usedstudent interest. We wanted a 

term commitment." 
to improve The Huddle," herecognizable franchise name." 
The short-term commitment said.
McDonald's, Wendy's, and 

option, which allows the 
No announcement was made
Hardees topped the list of 

University to buy the franchise about the purchase before the
chains Notre Dame consid­for five years at a cost of 

end of the 1997-98 school yearered, said Prentkowski, who $8000, is much cheaper than because the deal was uncer­
explained Burger King won 

the $30,000 and 30-year com­
tain, according to
out because of versatility and 

mitment usually required to 
Prentkowski.
cost. 

invest in a restaurant chain, 
"At the end of school, we
"They have the capability of 

Prentkowski said. 
didn't have all the contracts.
flexing to fit the space," he The franchise will be more We didn't want to publicizesaid. "Burger King has a spe­

expensive to operate than 
until we knew for a fact that
cial arrangement for a short-other, non-franchised restau­

we had it," he said. 
.. 

I. I 
I 
' 
Each dorm room will have one ''port per pillow," Cooper said. 
•.. For exarople, if a student 
.lives in a triple room, there Will .be three connections to the network. · Installation fairs will be held in residence halls begin. ning Sept. 14 to educate resi­dertts>abdtttusing and con­necting to Res Net. 
·. ''Students first need to ba~o a networkable comput­er," Cooper. said, "Then all Wy will .have to do is install t~e S.l)ftware to allOw them to ~qn~e.?t .to th!-l network." 
•.•S.?rne. .po!llput.e.rs ·may 
require an>Ethernet card, an · naJ co .· · cation 
, we, . .. compu ghout th¢ cam ··Cooper said. . .•.• 
The.. updated· technology may also change ¢lassroom . teac'll.ing techrtiques, accord:. 
ing to Cooper, 
"ResNetwill improve class­
room activities,'' .Cooper said. 
''The faculty now have access 
to the Internet al1d e~mail 
al1d may require studentS to 
use e-'tnail and the Internet 
more than in the past. 
Professors may start putting 
course work on.the Web. The 
networking changes the 
_whole equation." 
In addition to a networked 
campus, students will have 
cable television access in 
each dorm room. To have 
the cable TV activated, stu­
dents need to sign up at the 
front desk of their residence 
halls. · 
"Before we had cable 
ac.cess, there were students 
who couldn't get a basic TV 
station because they were on 
the wrong side-of the cement 
wall," Cooper said. 
Even the cable access has 
educational benefits, Cooper 
said. 
. "It will be ni~e to have stu· dents able to. access Scola or other foreign language chan­.nels," he saic.L "Maybe one day,_ Saint Mary's··Will have their own television station. That's where l would like. to 
see us go.'' ·· 


Main Office  Edison Lakes  Ireland Road  Mishawaka  Saint Joseph's Meet. Cntr.  
19033 Douglas Rd PO Box 7878  111 West Edison Rd Mishawaka. IN 46545  2102 E. Ireland Rd South Bend, IN46614  125 South Mill St Mishawaka. IN 46544  801 East LaSalle St South Bend, IN 46617  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 254-4400  (219) 299-2220  (219) 256-2361  (219) 237-7288  
(219) 239-6611  

Saint Mary's Campus Granger 
The Center Building 12980 State Rd 23 Notre Dame, IN 46556 Suite F (219) 284-4614 Granger, IN 46530 (219) 239-9351 
Portage Road 3457 Portage Road South Bend, IN 46628 (219) 277-8959 


w 

~ ~ ~ 
The Obse!Ver/John Daily 

Class of 1999... 
THURSDAY • AUGUST 27 join us for cool music, dancing and back to school prices! • 99Q Specials • 99Q Cover with Student ID ($5 without) 
Tuesday, August 25, 1998 
• CORRECTION 
In Saturday's Observer, the pictures of Saint Mary's student body president Sarah Siefnrt and student body vice president Nancy Midden wore reversed. The Observer regrets the error. The correct names and faees are as ff.lllows: 



Sarah Siefert Nancy Midden 
t \aste ... . ce Grea S rv\ce... 
E.~penen_ Great e 
t pnce...
Grea 

•Enjoy 
Unique Thai Cuisine that will excite all five taste senses: Sweef, Sour, SPICY, Slill~~if and Bland. 

•Always 
a minimum 25 items on the buffet. Dinner & Sunday include seafood and a lot more! 


TUESDAY-FRIDAY SATURDAY-SUNDAY 
Lunch $5.99 11 :D0-3:00pm $8.99 11 :3D-7:00pm Dinner $8.99 4:30-9:00pm Seafood Served All Day 
•These prices include soups, appetizers, 112 N. Center St. 
special noodles pan I ned bar, entrees, and seasonal fruit or desserts.  OO C t1 en er  
•Carry-out, catering, and vegetarian  Complex  
meals are available.  Mishawaka  
•Larger groups available up to 99 seats  (219) 258-0511  
and lots of parking.  


The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
ND gets Pew Grant for fellowships 
Special 10 The Observer 
The University has received a $2.1 million grant from the Pew Charitable Trusts to sup­port a residential fellows pro­gram of Christian scholarship in the Erasmus Institute. 
"The Erasmus Institute is a unique academic effort which promises to enrich the com­mon intellectual life of our culture as well as that of the Catholic Church," said Notre Dame president Edward 

'What are you lookin' at?' 
Malloy. "We are grateful to the Pew Charitable Trusts for their generosity and gratified by their endorsement of this exciting new program." 
Established last fall and named in honor of the 16th­century Catholic scholar and reformer, the Erasmus Institute hopes to reinvigorate the role of Catholic intellectu­al traditions in contemporary scholarship by offering the Pew residential fellowships, sponsoring a publishing pro­gram, originating cooperative faculty development pro­grams, organizing confer­ences and colloquia at col­leges and universities across the country and arranging summer seminars for gradu­ate students. 
Although the institute is pri­marily concerned with Catholic intellectual life, it also supports some research deriving from the intellectual traditions of other Christian churches, Judaism and Islam. 


Irish Guard members Ben Johnson, right, and Ben Wright, ceflter, make sure that Rick Saxon can keep a stra1ght face at tryouts over the weekend. Out of the 20 people trying out, four will be chosen to join the Guard. 












ousan 




e
1n syour roomma 
can 


um 
you. 
Hundreds of thousands of items 
for your dorm room under one 
u)
.. 
-~ 
'2 
.g ., roof, with all the brand names 
., .., .1: 
., like WamsuHa®, Fieldcrest®,
..c: 
'g 
0 
..>­
ID "' Black & Decker®, 
~ 
ID 
..,
.. Farberware, Krups and more. 
ID 
"' 
"' 
g"' 
And there's never a sale. Because everything is at or below sale prices, every day. We will not be undersold. Guaranteed! 
And if you find a lower price anywhere, we'll meet that price. ' .. 


\ftlL0WJ;
WE'RE THRILLED TO ACCEPT COMPETITORS' COUPONS. 
~;.--------;--,
I 5 OH Save $5 towards any 5 OH I purchase of $15 or more.
I 1
Present this certificate. 
,I
I BEDBATH& I 
I BEYON I 
Beyond any store of its kind".
1 1 
I I 
1 5 70100 00000 7 1 \ i / Coupon expires 10/31/98. Only one to a customer. Not valid with any other offer. Not
..... _________
, I valid lor purchase of gilt certificates, Calphalon', All-Clad, J.A. Henckels or Krups_produc:J.. 
\VfE5lYLf 
....._ rr -:.. 
MISHAWAKA: Princess City Plaza, 4430 North Grape Rd. 
iLIGHf/NG
(219)271-0709. Mon. thru Sat. 9 to 9:30, Sun. 10 to 7. Call 1-800-G() BEYOND" for locations Coast to Coast. 




.J 
Tuesday, August 25, 1998 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Malloy announces three top appointments 
Special to The Observer 
provost for academic out­University's Master of Divinity designed to identify outstand­care services.rnach. Program. In her continuing ing high school students. 
Poorman was graduated Phi
Fatl11•r 1\dwanl Malloy, prns­Father Hiehard Warner will 
role in Campus Ministry, Ordained a priest of the Beta Kappa from the
idnnt of tlw Univm·sity, ynstnr­
con ti n u e in 
~--------, Johnson will 
Congregation 
University of Illinois in 1976day announc<>d thrnn top his roles as 
direct the 
of Holy Cross and received his Master ofad 111 inistrati VI~ ap poi n tnwnts, counselor to 
Afrieentric 
in 1982, Divinity degree from Notre
l'fTnrtiv1~ imnwdial!dy. tlw president Spirituality Poorman had 
Dame in 1980. lie earned his
Father Mark Poorman, for­and director program, a 
been execu­doctorate in Christian ethies
mel'ly ~~xncutivn assistant to of Campus new cross­
tive assistant from the Graduate Theological
tlw Univnrsity's nxecutivo vieo 
Ministry. cultural ini­to the execu­Union at Berkeley in 1990.
prnsidnnt, now will be oxecu­
Poorman tiative for tive vice pres­Johnson, a native of Lostivn assistant to thP prosidnnt. and Johnson 
African­ident since Angeles, has been involved in
Chandra Johnson, while will assist 
Poorman American Johnson 1 9 9 6 . religious ed ueation for 23
retaining lwr rurrent role as Malloy with a Cullinan
students Formerly rec­years. An assistant director of
assistant dirnctor for cross­
variety of' executive office which she developed for intro­tor of Dillon Hall and associate Campus Ministry since 1996,
rultural programming in rosponsibilities while continu­duction this year. 
director of Campus Ministry, she has worked primarily with
Campus Ministry, will bnconw ing in several of thoit· current As assistant provost for aca­he teaches undergraduate and the black student eommunity,assistant to tlw pn~sident and activities, ospeeially with stu­demic outreach, Cullinan will 
graduate courses in Christian planning and coordinating
join tlw Univnrsity's of'ficnrs 
dents. Poorman, an associate direct the University's activi­ethics as well as pastoral skills retreats. workshops. Biblegroup; and Matllww Cullinan, professor of theology who lives ties in areas including dis­courses for students pursuing 
study, liturgies and various
formerly assistant to the presi­in Keough Hall, will continue 
tance learning, continuing ordained or professional lay other academic; and cultural
dl~nt. now will be assistant to teach and to direct the education and programs ministry. 
events. She also has conducted Author of the book, workshops and retreats 
"Interactional Ministry," pub­nationally on the spiritual lished in 1993, and editor of




r-------------------------,
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
needs of women, drawing par­

I 
"Labors of the Heart," pub­allels between women of theI lished in 1996, Poorman has first-century Palestine and lectured and written widely on those of contemporaryI Christian ethics and pastoral America. practice, including issues of Johnson was graduated cum
I 
sexuality, reproductive tech­laude from Notre Dame inW®rn~ll® I nologies, end-of-life decision 1996 with a degree in theology making and moral discern­and African-American studies.
I ment in pastoral practice. He She also is a graduate of the is a bioethics consultant for leadership program of the the St. Joseph Care Group, a Institute for Black Catholic
@3G)@~g I 
I consortium of hospitals, nurs­Studies at Xavier University in ing care facilities and home New Orleans and, whilo at
I


Macri's Deli 
I
University Drive 
277·7273 


WASHINGTON HALL--Donald Crafton, Chairman of This season, the Department of Film, Television and 
the Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT), Theatre will present a mainstage season consisting of has announced that the annual reception for students tour plays as well as many other acting and directing interested in film, television or theatre will be held projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 
Wednesday, August 26, at 6:00 pm in Washington Cat on a Hot Tin Roof Hall. Students interested in filmmaking, video/film pro­Getting Wrecked duction, broadcasting, stage management are encour­The Angels' Cradle performed by Theater Grottesco aged to attend. Following refreshments, there will be a The Schoof for Scandal brief informational meeting to discuss ways to become In addition, FTI will host a residency by THEATRE involved in departmental activities. GRoTTEsco, sponsored by the Henkels Visiting Lecture 
Theatre at Notre D/ame is open to all students-­Series. Acting and directing projects are showcased at majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. There the end of each semester. All of these projects will are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level need a great amount of student support. There are of talent. If you have a willingness to learn, you are positions for all who wish to participate. qualified. Auditions for the first two plays of the season will 
Becoming involve in theatre is an excellent way to be held Wednesday, August 26, Thursday August meet new people, make new friends, and have a great 27, at 7:00 pm. time while involving yourself in the creation of If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be something special on campus. involved or have questions about the program, please 
call Tom Barkes at (219) 631-5956. 
Notre Dame, studied at the 
University's Ecumenical 
Institute in Jerusalem. She 
serves on the administrative 
staff of the Institute for Black 
Catholic Studies for its sum­
mer programs. 
Cullinan, as assistant to the president since 1992, had served Malloy in a wide vari­ety of administrative eapaci­ties and had represented him to a number of University con­stituencies. Cullinan currently sits on tho board of the United Way of St. Joseph County and is a panel chair in its resouree allocation division. lie is a membet· of the Drug Couneil of the Healthy Communities Initiative of St. Joseph County. His is a past chair of the Loeal Coordinating Committee of the Governor's Commission for a Drug-Free Indiana. 
Cullinan has also served as a member of the community advisory board of WVPE public radio. 
Cullinan graduated from Notre Dame in 1985 with a bachelor's degree in history and government and earned a master's degree in American history from the University in 1988. lle earned a Master of Public Policy degree from Duke University in 1990 and currently is completing his doctorate in American history at Notre Dame. 
MATUBA 
~ Japanese Restaurant ~ Authentic, Healthy Delicious, The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You're very special to Matuba. We would like to invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din~ ing room and sushi bar-taste our shrimp tam­pur, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon, teriyakl chicken, sushi, sashimi and vegetable sushi or manv other traditional Jaoanese dishes. 
I.U1ch Spedal-$6.95 I:Jnr~-$14$ 
1 ·Beef Negimaki 1 • Teriyaki Chicken 2 • Egg Rolls 1 · Tuna Sushi 2 · Fried Rice 1 • White Fish Sushi 4 pc • California Rolls 1 • Salmon Sushi 4 pc ·Cucumber Rolls 4 pc • Cal~omia Rolls 1 • Mise Soup 8 pc • Tuna Rolls 1 • Salad 1 · Steam Rice plus Japanese 1 • Mise Soup Green Tea 1 ·Salad 
Maychange weekly plus Japanese Green Tea Lunch Dinner Sushi( 13 pieces) $6.95 $8.95 Sushi(14pieces $7.95 $11.95 Sushi veg. chicken (12pc) $6.95 $6.95 Sushinomwfish(13pc) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi (16 pieces) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi Deluxe (21 pieces) $16.95 $16.95 Sushi&Sashimicombo $18.95 $18.95 plus Miso Soup lunch:11·2 Mon·Frl Dinner: 5-9 Mon· Thurs,5-1 0 Fri·Sat 251-0674 Fish-Beef-Chicken 2930 E. McKinley Ave. South Bend IN 
---~ -· 
BEST WISHES FOR THE 1998-99 ACADEMIC YEAR 
FROM THE OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS Professor Patricia A. 0 'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs 202 Hurley Building 631-7394 
Mr. William Kirk  Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC  Ms. Ann Firth  
Assistant VP  Assistant VP  Assitant VP  Rev. Randy Rentner, CSC  
for Residence Life  for Student Affairs  for Student Affairs  Assistants to VP  
202 Hurley Building  202 Hurley Building  202 Hurley Building  202 Hurley Building  
631-6144  631-5550  631-5550  631-5550  

Ms. Cheryl Healy Mr. David Moss Special Assistants to Vice President 202 Hurley Building 631-5550 
I  
Alcohol & Drug Education  '  Campus Ministry  
Ms. Gina Poggione  Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C.  
Director  Driector  
311 LaFortune Student Center  103 Hesburgh Library Office  
631-7970  631-6536  

Career and Placement Services International Student Affairs 
Dr. Russell Kitchner Ms. Maureen Fitzgibbon Acting Director Director 242 Planner Hall 204 LaFortune Student Center 
631-5200 631-3824 
Multicultural Student Affairs Residence Life Ms. Iris Outlaw Mr. Jeffrey Shoup Driector Director 210 LaFortune Student Center 517 Grace Hall 631-6841 631-5551 
Security Student Activities Mr. Rex Rakow Mr. Joseph Cassidy Director Director 10 IE Security Building 315 LaFortune Student Center 631-5555 631-7308 
Student Health Services 
Student Residences Ms. Ann E. Thompson Mr. Scott Kachmarik Director 
Director 217 Student Health Center 
52 7 Grace Hall 631-7497 
631-5878 
Universit Counselin Center Dr. Patrick U tz Director 322 Student Health Center 631-7336 
-------------_.....-~--~--~----~----~-~--~-~-~· ----·-----~--­
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 






OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Tuesday, August 25, 10:00 am-12:00 pm, 1:00-3:00 pm Crowley Hall of Music, Room 124 Choral Auditions 
Chorale, Liturgical Choir, Glee Club, Women's Liturgical Choir, Basilica Schola Tuesday, August 25, 5:30-7:00 pm, Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Residences Welcome Picnic for all Graduate Students 
Co-sponsored with FOG staff and GSU Tuesday, August 25,8:30-10:00 pm, Earth Sciences, Room 102 Auditions for the Notre Dame Handbell Choir 
Wednesday, August 26, 8:00-9:30 pm, Earth Sciences, Room 102 Notre Dame Celebration Choir-First Rehearsal 
Friday & Saturday, August 28-29, 3:00pm-7:00pm 
Fatima Retreat Center Africentric Spirituality: Freshman Intro Retreat, "The Plunge" 
Tuesday, September 1, 7:00-8:30 pm, Bond Hall, Room 114 Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, September 2, 4:30pm, Montgomery Theatre/LaFortune Catechist Information Session 
Wednesday, September 2, 5:00-8:00 pm, LaFortune Ballroom Latino Students at Notre Dame: Pachanga '98 
Dinner and dance Wednesday, September 2, 7:00pm, Hesburgh Library Lounge Africentric Spirituality: 
Freshman lntro First Year Partner Reception Sunday, September 6, 4:00pm, Sorin Hall Chapel Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass Sunday, September 6,1:30 pm, Keough Hall Chapel Spanish Mass Sunday, September 6,12:30 pm-Notre Dame Room/LaFortune Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults 
(RCIA-becoming Catholic) Information Session for Candidates and Sponsors Tuesday, September 8, Siegfried Hall Chapel 
7:00 pm -Confirmation-Session for Candidates 
8:00 pm -Confirmation-Session for Sponsors 
Emmaus 
Looking for an exciting place to explore and share your faith with others? Look no further. Emmaus is here. For more information on joining a small faith sharing community in our Emmaus program contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016. 
~---·---·--~---·· ---~----------.. ----.__ ------------------------------------------------------------·-----------------~-----------~--------------------· 


IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, August 25, 1998 os~fRVER page 12 

• 000NESBURV  GARRY TRUDEAU  • fiUOTE OF THE DAY  
IN THe /N"Tl3/?NeT El.JGI~ PRCF­ITA!JIUTY15 fVR..IUIMPS. IT Me.AN.3 YaJI< /JlJ§!NliSS PLAN P!ASN'rAGGR£55/V/3a.t:XJGH. n-5 OKAYTO to!!ie A toTOFMON&Y, A5 toNGA5!T5CNPURPOSe.  'Agentleman need not know Latin, but he should at least have forgot­ten it.' • -Brander Matthews  

Welcome back Notre Dame 
Welcome back to all Notre 
Dame students for the 1998­
1999 school year! It is great 
returning to the Notre Dame 
community with friends each 
August. As your elected student 
government leaders, we Wish · 
you a great year and remind 
you that we will be putting stu· 

dents first! 
There are several new and 
improved services nowavail~ 
able to Notre Dame st"!ldents. 
Saferide, a safe transportation 
service for students back home, 
will be operational.on 
Thursday nights while continu­
ing its Friday and Saturday 
service. Also. please consult 
The Observer eve.ry ThutSday ···=·=:::~;:;:.:·,, for a listing of campus events during the following wee~. This listing is brought to you by the members of the Executive Cabinet. We hope you play a role b:( making Notre Dame a better community during this year. Good luck with elassesJGo Irish! 
Peter Cesaro 
Student Body President 
,.,;:-,:.::.:· 
Andrea Selak 
Student Body Vice President 
24 August 1998 
Kindness: a two way street 
Random acts of kindness. 
We've all seen the bumper stickers­even full-sized billboards -promoting this idea. Whenever there's a chance, we're reminded to do something nice · for someone. It's a good idea and con­tributes to making the world a better place. ' 
Julie A. Ferraro 
But what about when we're a victim of these random acts of kindness? Or deliberate acts of kindness, for that matter? Do we secretly resent the indi­vidual who has been kind to us without our permission? 
Example: While waiting for mom and dad to "send money," as is often the case with college students, the wallet runs dry and there's no money to go to The Huddle or over to McDonald's for a burger. Half the dorm is on their way out the door to do just that, though. A friend invites us along, but we know we can't pay. Without us having to admit to total poverty, this friend offers to buy the burger, and a drink, and even a cherry pie -not as a loan, but as a "treat." Suddenly, there is an uneasy feeling in the stomach, and it's not hunger. Accepting or rejecting this offer says a lot about how we handle kindness. 
This little gremlin that might urge us to reject such an offer of kindness is called "pride." It's very hard for anyone to admit that he or she isn't "in con­trol" or is vulnerable. The fact is, that we all need each other-for love, com­fort, support, kindness. That's why God put us all here together. We're sup­posed to learn from each other, to help each other, to make the world a good place to live. 
We don't just need to be kind, we need to lot others be kind to us. We don't just need to love oth­
ers, we need to let oth-~ 
they're all right. It all comes ers love us. And, in /~----down to kindness -to addition to these · ~ --;:: ~ ourselves, to others. A
~\ ~ 
,.._
ideas, we need ----..,... _ . . . """' ready ear when to be kind to f..{(M.~ vv-• _. ,...... someone needs to ourselves, e=7Q.___r v-. ·--.. .... ~~.. talk, the loan of
j
and love .s . . . _ ,f: ...... aCD,agameof ourselves. ~ . ·. -......, basketball or In the 
tennis for old days companion­-cen­
ship-all turies 
these are past­
kindnesses many 
that are "saints" 
within rea­were son. In those renowned times when for their we need an asceticism, ear to listen to their life of our troubles, or self-denial take a jog around lived for the St. Mary's Lake honor and glory with us to work off of God. They didn't some frustration (or "indulge" themselves. just for the exercise), we Yet there were men like must be open to others wanti-
Francis of Assisi, who danced in the fields when the moon struck him. St. Benedict wrote that "moderation" should be the rule. There's nothing wrong with a candy bar now and then, or a beer or two, a cool pair of jeans or a classy shirt ... as long as we don't go to excess. 
We need to care for our health, as long as that doesn't go to excess. How many times did our parents tell us, "Wear a hat or you'll catch cold." Well, we're old enough now to know that going hat-less doesn't automatically make us sick. But we shouldn't wear shorts ·when it's 20 below zero, either! If we eat in a relatively healthy way­a way that makes us comfortable ­we'll be all right. If we dress appropri­ately we'll be all right. 
And, if we're all right, then we can 
better look to others and be sure 
ng to be kind to us. Just a thought at the beginning of another school year. 
Julie A. Ferraro is the local sales rep­resentative for Faith wear, and is exec­utive director of The PIT Troupe theatre 
-company. Her column will appear, with 
the exception of today, every other 
Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 
'li.!csday, August 25, 1998 BSERVER ----------------------------------------------pagel3 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
No more excuses in U.S. News ranking 
It would seem that our lowest score, 56th among national univt)rsities, is again in the cat· cgory U.S. News & World Heport labels "finan­cialresources" and delines as educalional oxpenditurn per student. This !'actor accounts for 1 0 pPreen t of the total score. 
Given the morn than obvious wealth of Notre Dame and its very high costs for tuition and fees, this ranking is the hardest to understand. It is the one for which I suggest the Senate n~quest clal'ification and documentation ASAP. 
Notre Dame ranks just outside tho top 25 (26thl in "faculty resources" and ranks near the bottom or the top 25 or lower in percentage of dassns with less than 20 students, and in per­centage of full time faculty. 
Among top 25 schools, our reputation score of :~.9 (of a possible 5) is next to last. Tufts.is in last place among the top 25. It is likely that many schools in the second tier of the top 50 rank ahead of Notre Dame in reputation. It is possible that "reputation," as measured by U.S. News, is hPavily weighted by the national rank· ing of the graduate programs of all depart­moots of tho Univorsity. That interprntation of the "reputation" measure makes more sense than alternatives usually generated when the University chooses to downplay the signi!icance of the U.S. News rankings. 
The most heavily weighted factors in deter· mining ovt1rall score are reputation: 25 percent; faculty rosourees: 20 percent; retention rate: 20 prrcent; selectivity: 15 percent. 
Ed Manier Philosophy Department 24 August 1998 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Joe Moore 
fiasco 
appalling 
I have just finished reading in my hometown newspaper, The Washington Post. an account of tlw abusive bnhavior of Notrt~ Damn football coadws. specilkally. former line coach Joe Moort~. I rnad of his tiradns and punching 11pisodns, which seemed likn nothing other than tlw tmnpnr tantrums of a spoiled and self-indul­gmll child. 
I'Prhaps .Joe Moore missed his calling and should have been a .Jnsuit or Christian Brother who. for good or ill, havn a worldwide reputa­tion of tnaching by corporal punishment and otlwr l'orms of intimidation. 
To add to this liasco. WI~ have the University's dir1H:tor ol' puhlk relations, Dennis Moore, going on lhP n1cord with, "We regard this as a closed isstw. And wn have nothing else to say." Hello! A t:losnd issue'? I don't think so. If this is thn PH !lark's idna of putting a positive spin on an appalling event. lw needs to take Public H11lations I 0 I a sncond timn. 
Tlw npisodn involving Joe Moore's infantile lwhavior. according to thn Post article, is not tlw lirst time he is on record for stfch behavior -smacking ptHlpln in the facn as a high school wad1 and trashing a hotel room in Pittsburgh during a spat with anotlwr coach. 
Orw only hopes that .foe Moon1's wife and family hav1~ not be1~11 on the receiving end of his physical tantrums. If this is the approach to life tht~ Not.rn Damn varsity comns away with at graduation. God lwlp thnm and the luckless pnopln who have to deal with them. 
Pete Wilkin 
Rockville, Maryland 
S August 1998 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEB.RASKA 
"Wag the Dog" comes to a haunting reality 
(U-Wire) LINCOLN, Neb. 
When Ilirst sat down to write this column, America was a relatively peaceful place. Our biggest worry ~as whether or not the president lied about a sexual relationship with an intern. That's what this col­umn was supposed to be about. It was instant gratilication. This was supposed to be in support of our fearless leader. This was supposed to be a repri­mand handed down from a pressman to the press. 
This was supposed to be simple. 
Simple -like when a Tomahawk missile slams into the side of a pharma­ceutical plant and starts a chain reaction of lires and chaotic carnage. It lqoks good on paper. 
On Thursday, when the United States unleashed its new terrorism eradica­tion program in Afghanistan and the Sudan. suddenly everyone was back with President Clinton. 
The attack, in response to U.S. embassy bombings in Nairobi, Kenya and Dar es Salaam. Tanzania, started a new era of good feeling in Washington. Even Senator Orrin Hatch {R-Utah), critical of Clinton's apology address on Monday, was backing the president on Thursday . 
"I want to applaud the president," Hatch said. Call it a high rate of turnover on partisanship and congressional loyal­ties to the executive office. 
Senator Chuck Hagel (R­Neb.) said in a statement on Tuesday following President Clinton's Monday address, "This presidency is over." 
llagel then said on Thursday that he was standing behind the presi­dent and Clinton's deci­sion to attack. 
Not surprisingly, most Friday papers buried Monica Lewinsky's second testimonial in front of the grand jury below the front-page fold. 
I thought it ludicrous at lirst that this week, full of trivialities over the president's personal life. would turn out to be the most critical of his presidency. 
President Clinton has struck fear into the hearts of terrorists and Americans alike. All over the world retaliation is feared. In America, terrorist retribution is imminent. 
The Unitnd States has now embroiled itself in an unwinnable war of immeasurable bloodshed. In order for Clinton's re-ignited antipathy toward terrorists to be taken in fully by the American press and people, this attack will need to be followed up with additional adions. 
Otherwise, who is not to say that this move was only a diversionary tactic-that in theory it was really Monica Lewinsky who launched 100 Tomahawk cruise missih:Js. 
We have countered terrorism with terrorism. 
It is frightening to think ol'the numerous ways terrorist factions could, or already have, infiltrated America despite the nation's strong 
· intelligence capabilities. ll'this is now truly a war, America can expect heavy casualties and more hit-and-miss guerrilla war­fare, all adding up to an immense heap of political and social nothing­ness. As the glorified sportswriting adage goes, you can't stop it, you can only hope to contain it. Americans, military and civilian 
alike, are undeniably in harm's way. The targets of last Thursday's raid, Osama bin Laden and his mer­cenaries, have made it dear that they make no differentiation between those in uniform and those in plain clothes. 
Bin Laden once addressed an entire mosque full of terrorists, ask­ing how many were in favor of killing all Americans. Every hand in the building was raised. 
Maybe bin Laden does not have the capabilities to destroy 260 mil­lion American lives, but he certainly has the maniacal drive and suffi­cient support to attempt it. 
He or other breakaway fringe fanatics, including American citi­zens, as evidenced by Timothy McVeigh and Ted Kaczynski. could strike anywhere, at any time. 
People like bin Laden don't die. Every day, thousands of them are created. If one falls, another will assuredly take his place. Every ranting Libyan, Iraqi, Afghani, Bosnian and American shouting "down with the USA" has the poten­tial to spring up if given the oppor­tunity. 
The most striking images from last Thursday were not of the shat­tered military targets, but of Moammar Qada!Ti leading thou­sands through the streets chanting anti-American sentiments and burning American flags. 
Last Thursday's actions did not seem like a typical knee-jerk reac­tion to a categorical aet of war such as the bombing of an American embassy. Hather, President Clinton was said to have done a lot of ques­tioning and investigating into FBI 
intelligence and solid leads 
to bin Laden as the man 
responsible. 
Could no other action 
-
have been acceptable? 
In light of America's 
recent self-centered isola­
tionism, such a bold step 
forward would be sure to 
meet with criticism. 
Instead, it was met with 
praise by several allies, 
including Great Britain, 
France and Germany. 
Only Russian president 
Boris Yeltsin condemned 
the act as "outrageous" 
and "indecent." Yeltsin 
wondered if a better­
formed policy might have 
been a more suitable 
course of action. 
Sanetions perpetuated by 
the United States and the 
United Nations may lack 
the strength and savvy of 
military action, but they 
have been the weapon of 
choice in years past. 
Punish the country harbor­
ing the militants. and 
someone is sure to root 
them out from the inside. 
If America takes a stand, 
then our allies should fol­
low the lead. Trade should 
be suspended indefinitely 
and worldwide recognition 
of hostile countries also 
should take elTect. 
Military action in a war 
on terrorism should be a 
carefully designed plot, fil­
tering all available intelli­
gence resources and 
scouring the maps to lind 
exact locations of not just 
suspected terrorists, but 
known radicals. 

Last Thursday, stray missiles were reported to have fall­en short of the Afghanistan border into Pakistan. Though President Clinton conferred with Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on Friday. thousands of Pakistanis con· tinued to protest in the streets. 
With Pakistan's newly discovered nuclear capabilities. the United States may be entreating on a new, fragile doorstep of concern. Could this World War be the apocalyptic nuclear end-all'? 
This tight cannot be won. The United States' action can lead only to a seesaw battle between several lly-by-night warring parties, their only strategy being surprise. Terrorist attacks could hit any­where-government buildings, monuments. universities. 
We will have gone nowhere; countless hundreds of world citi· zens will continue to pay the dear­est price, while the instigators go unscathed. 
Adam Klinker is a columnist for The Daily Nebraskan at the Uniuersity ofNebraska. ll has been r~printed here courtesy ofthe U­Wire. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

·-~ 
.. . --~--­

s 
THE
Tuesday,August 25, 1998 --------------------page 14
OBSERVER 

our 
Summer?'' 
0 
THE FouR STEREOTYPICAL RESPONSES 




"The Europe Traveler" 
"I had the most incredible experience traveling around Europe all summer 
and living out of my backpack. I carried my Let's Go Europe book with me 
wherever 1 went and made sure not to miss any famous tourist traps. I even 
waited in line for two hours just to see the Mona Lisa. "I only lost my passport six times and the train conductor was highly under­standing when he caught me forging days on my train pass. He only made me pay him all of the money I had before he gave me back my pass. We got lost at least once in every city we went to because we tried to speak English to 
everyone and no one understood. 
"I took more than 10 rolls of film and 1 haven't got all of my pictures developed yet, but I saved a million souveniers to make a killer scrapbook and I bought enough posters to wallpaper my dorm room with exotic places. 
"We stayed at all of the cheapest hostels and ate only bread and red wine so I hardly spent any money at all -just my entire life savings. I only had to call home once to beg my par­ents for enough money to get home." 
"The Beach Bum" 
"My parents own a huge beach house in North Carolina and I spent all summer laying in the sun and working at the most expensive seafood restau­rant in town. Not only did I get a killer tan, but 1 made some killer tips as well. 
"It was hard to remember to apply enough sunscreen everyday, but after a few painful and blistering burns, I didn't forget anymore. It didn't rain once and it was never cloudy. I went sailing, jet skiing, kayaking and swimming. 
"I dyed my hair blonde with Sun-In, wore sandles everyday, drank iced-tea and ate more ice-cream than anyone could imagine. "I got to meet a million people my .age and I went out every night after work and stayed out all night long, but I caught up on sleep during the day r------------------:----, by taking naps in the sun. "I got tired of dealing

_with all of the tourists from up North, but I did have a romantic summer fling. I was only mildly heartbroken when he returned home to his girl­friend. 
After that I met a dreamy Baywatch-esque lifeguard after he recused me from the dangerous undertow. I hope he's still lifeguarding next summer. 
"I didn't make much money, but I had enough fun to last the whole year and I can't wait to go back next summer and have some more fun." 
"The Intern" 
"It was the best summer of my life. I worked in Chicago for the best accounting firm in the nation and they have alraady offered me a job after gradutation. They treated me like I was a full-time employee and I got to do so many more things than I thought that I would. 
"I made $600 a week, but I spent almost all of it on rent, food and entertaine­ment. You would not believe how many different things there are to do in Chicago. Every week my company treated the interns to dinner and we were able to take our clients out to din-....-------------------..,....., 
ner a lot, too. We had intern parties on Navy Pier and other bars downtown, all on the company's bill. 
"I met so many different people and contacts and really felt a part of the work­
"The best part is that I wasn't just a gopher in the office, rather I had my own 
office, e-mail account and ingworld. 
phone line. 
"I now know what I want to do with the rest of my life, ,~~~ and now that I am back, t1' school seems kind of silly. I am ready to tackle the busi­ness world." 
"The Summer School Student" 
"I stayed here in South Bend all summer to take a few extra classes and it was pretty fun because I didn't have to study as much as I did during the school year and I found out that it isn't always cloudy and rainy here. Sometimes the sun does shine. 
"I tried to get a job, but all the on-campus positions were filled by the overly ambitious people who had secured employment before they left campus in the Spring. Instead, I ended up spending every weekend at the Indiana Dunes and every evening enjoying South Bend's booming social scene. Even better, every time I went to the mall, I saw other summer school students who were working at The Gap or American Eagle. 
"I went to Chicago for the Fourth of July just like every other summer school 
student and we got caught in ..-------,..,...lr"T-:-r-,..-....,.----------, the worst rainstorm of the summer, but Taste of Chicago ended up being a 
good time. 
"Campus was much quieter than usual and everything seemed to move at a slower pace. Even the library closed at midnight. Now that every­one is back I feel like people are invading my space. 
"''m not ready for the real school year to start because I can't imagine having a full class load and everyone being back on campus again. I'm really glad I got those tougher classes out of the way so that I can concentrate on other interesting subjects this semester." 
Tuesday, August 25, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 

Griffey's 44th homer powers Seattle to victory 
Associated l'ress "lie's my doser," said Piniella said Hodriguez. "l-Ie's one of' my 
or the decision to stay with favorite pitehers because he 
SEATTI.E Timlin. "lie was just trying to gives you 100 percent day in 
KPn (;ril'fny Jr. has been make it interesting. and day out." unusually quint at tlw plate and "Today was a weird game in a Cloude didn't allow a hit until thP Snattln Marirwrs' bullpen lot of ways. But, look, we put up Frank Thomas's two-out triple has hnnn unusually ell'ective thn a lot of' runs and it was more in the fourth. Albert Belle fol­last fnw wnnks. Thny were in than we gave up. We came out lowed with another triple, tying thnir old form Monday. on top and that's all that mat­the score at 1. 
c;rim~y hit his Al.-lnading 44th tors." Magglio Ordonez connected 
honw run and thn Marinnrs sur­Griffey, who also had an HBI orr Claude in the seventh for a vivnd rocky rnlinf pitching to double, is showing signs of two-run homer, making it 9-3. comph~tn a four-ganw swnep of snapping out of his prolonged "The bullpen let us down a lit­tlw Chicago Whitn Sox with an power drought, which saw him tle bit, continuing to give up 
I 1-1 0 victory. hit only one home run in 87 at­runs instead of holding them 
"That was a wild onn, wasn't bats before Sunday. and giving us the opportunities," it?" said Seattln manager Lou Mark McGwire of St. Louis said Chicago manager Jerryl'inidla, who saw three reliev­leads the majors with 53 Manuel. 
ers give back sevnn runs over homers, eight short of Roger tlw last two innings. Maris' record. Sammy Sosa of Houston 12, Chicago 3 
Seattle starter Ken Cloude (8-the Chicago Cubs is second with IJ) left aftnr s<wen innings with a 51. Sammy Sosa didn't homer r 9-3 lead. But Bob Wells, Jose Despite the slump, Griffey still Monday. And the team he plays Paniagua and Mike Timlin con­has more homnrs at this point in for, the Chicago Cubs, didn't do spin~d to givn back three runs in the season than he did last year, much of anything for three tho nighth. when he had 40 on his way to a games against the Houston 
Tlw Marinnrs seemed to career-high 56. Astros. 
n~enivn two insurance runs in Griffey came up in the fourth Moises i\lou, Craig Biggio and the <~ighth whnn Chicago reliev­inning with two outs and run­Carl Everett homered for the er Jaime Navarro threw back­ners at !irst and third. He pulled Astros as they completed a 
to-hack run-scoring wild pitches the lirst pitch from Mike Sirotka three-game sweep Monday with to makP it 11-(J. (12-12) down the right-lield line a 12-3 victory. 
But Timlin loadnd tho bases to give the Mariners an 8-1 "The last thing you think on thrnn singlns -two that lead. about coming into Wrigley Field rwvnr IPI't the inlinld -with no Sirotka then walked Edgar is taking three games from outs. Hobin Vm1tura followed Martinez, who began the seven­these guys," said Biggio, who hit with his I lith t·an•nr grand slam run irining with a go-ahead solo four homers in the three-game to pull tlw Whiln Sox within one. homer, and was taken out. set. 
"You'v<~ got to knnp scrapping Sirotka gave up eight runs and "We just played well, did some and hopdully you get somn eight hits in 3 2-3 innings. things right that translated into brnaks," Vnntura said. "I don't Griffey added an HBl double runs." 
try and do that. It just happens. in the sixth and left in the sev­The Astros outscored the Cubs Roger Maris' record of' 61. With games. lie went 3-for-3 Monday That is what I call lur.k." enth. helpingsend Chicago to its 33-9 to build a 1 0 1/2-game lead the loss, the Cubs remained one and finished the series 8-for-13. 
Hottnn luck, if you ask sixth straight loss. All of the in the NL Central. game behind the Mets in the NL Biggio was 2-for-3 and went 7­Marirrors shortstop Alex Mariners' wins in the series "We're in good shape," wild-card race. l'or-14 in the series, while Hodriguez aflm· tlw inning was were by one run. Houston manager Larry Dierker "The only way we can make increasing his home run total to snt up hy two high turf-bounce "We're just trying to work on said. "II' we don't win the divi­the playoffs is if we play better," 17. Everett was 2-for-5 Monday singiPs. thesn one-run games, try to sion now, we'd have to play Sosa said. ''I'm not chasing any­and tied a career high with five 
"I didn't know what to makn improve the margin a little bit," really poorly or the Cubs would body, I'm in the middle of a pen­RBis. of it ltlw inning!." Hodriguflz said Piniella, whose club has have to be unbeatable." nant race. I'm not thinking "It's been a fun season," said. "It's not likn they hit any doubled its total of one-run wins Cubs first baseman Mark about going out there and hit­Biggio said. "If one guy isn't S<TPanwrs. It was just frustrat­from four to eight in four days. Grace described his team's play ting a home run all the time. We doing it, that's all right because ing." The 162-game record low for during the sweep as "thoroughly win together and we lose somebody else is stepping up 
Frustrating on tlw field, and onn-run wins is 11 by the 1985 embarrassing." together. I'm not an individual and doing the job. torturous for Cl o u de on the Hangnrs. "The Silver Bullets would have guy." "Houston has always been lwnt:h. "This is a year of firsts in a lot kicked our butts," he said. "This The only homer the Cubs basically pitching and dBf'ense 
"You tnll yourself not to think of' ways for us," Piniella said. was brutal. None of us did any­managed was from Mickey oriented and this is probably the that way !about blowing a It was a day of role-reversal thing for three days. Morandini, who hit a two.run second offensive team I've been garrwl. hut llw way thn season lew Sirotka and Ken Cloude, who "Everybody should be disap­drive in the eighth inning. a part or. You add Alou and has gonn it's not out of th<) opposed nach other August 14 pointed and embarrassed to be Houston (82-50) is 32 games Everfltt and you really couldn't r<•alm of possihilitins," said in Chkago. On that day, Cloude laughed at by the opposition for over .500 for the first time ever ask for a better offense." Cloud!'. "You don't like to sweat gave up eight runs in 5 1-3 three days. We would have been and just two wins short of its Shane Reynolds (16-8) retired it out likn that, but somntimes it innings in a 14-2 defeat. dominated by a single-A team." 1997 total. The Astros broke 12 straight after a nearly two­happPns." This time Cloude (8-9) allowed Sosa, who homered twice their team record for homers hour rain delay in the bottom of 
<;rng Norton then singlnd and three runs and four hils in Sunday, was 2-for-4 with a pair Saturday and now have 142 this the second. He gave up one run was sacrilknd to sneond before seven innings, striking out 10 of singles and remained at 51 season. unearned and four hits in six Timlin rnrordnd the last two and walking three. homers, two behind Mark Alou's homer was his 38th of innings, striking out seven and outs for his 12th savn. "Knnny was the real story," McGwire in the chase to catch the season and ninth in 18 walking none. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexr-day clas­
Classifieds sifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 ctms per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc righr ro cdir all classi!lcds lor content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES I 
Bed and Breakfast for Notre Dame games and events. Private home 2 miles from campus. Private baths. 272­9471 
Vito's Barbershop Closed Sun and Wed all day. 
WANTED 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTER­Notre Dame The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame, located at 18680 Bulla Road, is currently accept­Ing applications from college students for part time posi­tions. The hours are 11:30 a.m.·! :05 p.m. MWF and/or TTH. If you are interested in applying, please contact Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 for more information and an application. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood Development Center. located at Saint Mary's College and lhe University of Notre Dame, IS looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please call Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDS·SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND). Please join our fun·filled days. 
Volunteer in Africa or mexico. One year placements in varies sectors: human rights. community development, youth, journalism, microenterprise, health, refugee relief, more. Internships in our Washington, D.C. office. Visions in Action. (202) 625-7403. Visions@igc.org Web: www.visionsinaction.org. 
FOR RENT 
FTBL WKNDS -Charming cape cod 2 bdrm/1 bth; sleeps 4-6; 7 min dr.; inclds brkfst. For more info call 232-4835. 
FTBL WKNDS-cute 3 bed/2 bath; sleeps 4-6, 7 min dr., inclds brkfst, for more info call233-3410. 
OFF CAMPUS RENTALS very very reasonable rent AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY (1998-99) 2-bedroom apartments, 1 large house (2 students mini­mum) clean washers/dryers, security systems, plenty of park­ing. Call" Dave or Carolyn, 291-2209. 
Off Campus Rentals AVAILABLE FALL 1999 Property 1: 4-5 students. Property 2: 6-8 students (large common area). Clean washers/dryers, appliances, security systems, plenty of parking, nice condition. Call Dave or Carolyn, 291-2209. 
FLYNN ND/SMC B & B. Private home, 10 mins from campus. 31ovely rooms, one bath. Perfect for families or couples travelling together. Available football, grad, parents' wknds. $75­95/nt. Call Alice (219) 282-2241. 
6 bdrm home near campus. Furn. $175 mo. per person. 272-6551. 
For Rent: Furnished room, air, kitchen, laundry fac., 3 min. N. of campus. 272-0615. 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 
FOR SALE 
91 Tempo, auto, 4dr, good body, runs great, $1800/best. 257-1708. 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 MICH TIXI $$and/or trade for LSU tix. Call Andrew at 904-947-6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. 
Buying Michigan vs Notre Dame Football Tickets. 277­1659. 
For Sale: Football Tickets. All Games. 272-7233. 
Two ND vs Michigan tickets for sale. Cdall Carrie at (910) 343-1866. 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM: 232-2378 PM: 288-2726 
ND Football Tickets For Sale. AM: 232-2378 PM: 288-2726 
For Sale: Football Tickets. 271·9412 
Wanted: ND football tickets. 271-1526. 
ND football tix Buy-Sell 674-7645 
ND football buy-sell. Season and individual game tick­ets. GA only. 674-7645 
PERSONAL 
For your FREE W.W.J.D. bracelet, call631-6385. 
Wow. I don't havebooks, or notebooks, or pens, or sleep... heck, i haven't even unpacked. But i'm here at 2 
a.m .... priorities are everything. 
Hey Mark. Here'syour first classified of the year. 
"I have been here a week, and I have never been at a computer that has been able to do all of the following things allhe same time: Print, open Quark, or opeb Clueless." 
-------~­
.....--...---------------· 
Thursday, August 25, 1998
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 

Yankees looking to century mark before September 1st 
New York took a 2-0 lead in the fifth when Brosius hit an RBI double and scored on Joe Girardi's single. For most of the night, it appeared the lead would hold up. 
But Pettitte, who allowed just three hits until the seventh, got hit hard in that inning. He wound up allowing five runs and nine hits in eight innings, and has won just twice in his last seven starts. 

Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
While the Yankees beat up on most of the American League, the Anaheim Angels are the lone exception. 
Garrett Anderson tied the score with a two-run homer in the seventh and Gary DiSarcina hit a go-ahead, two-run double later in the inning to lead the Angels over New York 7-3 Monday night. 
"They have an aggressive ballclub," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "They're play­ing well now. They have some confidence. In fact, they're playing better on the road (35­
26) than they are at home (37­33)." 
Anaheim, which could play the Yankees in the first round of the playoffs, holds a 4-3 advantage over New York this year -thn only team the Yankees don't lead in the sea­son series. The Angels, who have won eight of 11, main­tained their 2 1/2-game lead over seeond-place Texas in the AL West. 
"This was a big game for us," Angels manager Terry Collins said. 
In the opener of a five-game series -the makeup of a game postponed last April when a 500-pound, steel-and-concrete joint crashed from Yankee Stadium's upper deck -the loudest noise came from Anderson. Ilis 13th homer tied it at 2 after Tim Salmon's lead­off double in the seventh against Andy Pettitte (14-8). 
"I don't think you can focus on one particular series when you have 27 games or so to go," Anderson said. "You can't say, 'If you don't do it here, it's all over.'" 
Troy Glaus then singled, Phil Nevin doubled off the glove of third baseman Scott Brosius and DiSarcina's double put Anaheim ahead 4-2. 
DiSarcina tagged on a deep f1yout, Randy Velarde walked and Darin Erstad beat out an infield hit with two outs for a 5­2 run lflad. Erstad and Orlando Palmeiro added HBI singles in the ninth off Mike Buddie. 
"They got one hook up and they got one cutter up, and they took advantage of it," Yankees catcher Joe Girardi said, refer­ring to Pettitte's pitches to Anderson and DiSarcina. 
New York (94-34), trying to become the first team to win 100 games before September, has lost consecutive games twice within six days after not losing back-to-back games for a month. 
It was just the 10th loss in 58 home games for the Yankees, who must go 23-11 or better to break the record of 116 wins set by the 1906 Chicago Cubs. 
New York, which has lost four of six, has allowed 28 runs in three games, including a 12­10 loss at Texas on Sunday night. 
"We don't l-ike to lose, whether it's one in a row or four out of six," Torre said. ''I'm not concerned, but you don't like to lose." 
Jack McDowell (3-2) won his second straight start since com­ing off the disabled list. McDowell. who had been side­lined by pain in his right elbow, allowed two runs and six hits in seven innings. He pitched seven shutout innings in a 2-0 win over Detroit last Wednesday. 
"I haven't been walking myself into trouble," McDowell said. "I used to try to throw every pitch as hard as I could, and sometimes you wind up putting men on base." 
Please Recycle the Observer 


• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Tennis Tryouts will be held on Sept. 9 for all interested players. Call Liz Barker at 1-3730 for more information. 
Sports Officials 
RecSports is looking for flag football, fastpitch soft­ball, baseball and soccer officials for the fall interhall season. Good pay and flexi­ble hours. Call DeMond Thomas or Jeff Walker at 1­3536 or 1-4437 for more information. 
Sports Info 
Get involved in the excite­ment of Notre Dame Athletics. The Sports Information Department always is looking for student assistants. For more infor­mation call 631-7516 or come to the informational meeting on Wed., Aug. 26 at 
8:00 p.m. in the Sports Information Office on the second floor of the J.9yce 
Activities Night ' 98 
Tuesday, Sept. 1 • 7-9 PM • Joyce ACC Fieldhouse 
Registered Tables 
Acconullng Club ,A.riican Americ•n Studenr Alliance 
3 Af1ican Srudcnls' Association 
4 Air Fnm: ROTC 
5 Alpha Ep~ilun Della Amalcur Rad1o Club Ann:nun Chcmiclll Soch:ry 
1\uu:r.lmuirurcofChemiclllf:nl:. ~ AIUCT Sucicly nf Mechanical EnK IU 1\mcr. Sucicry 11fCivil Enginecn~ II Aulhtnt>nh>~t)'C'Iub 12 AIIICullcclive I] 1\~11111 A1nerican A~lloeilllion tot 1\JIIIII lnlcmAiiomd St•ciely 15 lbgplpe 11111\d 
16 Hallet Fokloricn A7.ul y Oro 
17 HallmmnDanc.Uub Ill Raptis! S\Lu.lcnr Union 19 IJiology Club 20 Ulack Cultun,l At1s Fesliv;d 
21 ChildrenofM1ry 
22 Class of 1999 
2J Chm of :woo 
24 Clusuf2001 
2S College J>emncral~ 
lf• Cnllc~te Rc1111hl•c:ms 
21 CtN11JMIIcr AJtl•ln:alnm!lllunur Sue 
2R Jnj!a:hngClub 
29 Cow•cilrn• lni'l Rusmu!l Oev 
.lO llcbllc Team 
.ll l)!Mnc(ye~~rbook) 
l2 Eulreptenelll Club 
JJ F1rley 11•11 Playeu 
.l4 Filipino Americ1n Student Or~ 
H Fli1'Side 
)6 Gnitarl'l11yers 
31 111w1iiCinh .\H IhllJIIIUIC llusmeu StmkUI Auoc .l9 llumorAI1i~s 
40 lndi11 A1soc. of NOire Dame 41 hnemalional ~tutknl Ori!.. 42 Investment Uuh 
4) lri~&h lJ11ncintt Club 4<1 halinnCiuh H JapanCinb 4{, Join! Engineerirti!Cuuncil 41 Judicial Council 48 K01e11n Studeul Assoc. .49 LA Ali1nza SO I.e Cerde Franc11i1 
51 Lelll!Lie ofUiacl! nu~incu Student.~ S2 Nl>MIS B Markctini!Ciub H Metlievn1Cin1J S~ MAES/SIII'E .5(o Mintnityl're-Mct.!Suciety S1 MuckTri11IAssoc. 
Model United N11tit1nl"59 Mul\llll••·n,ctll 60 M•thic:ullurllll!lleculivcl:!;Mmcil (•I Mnllun S111dents' Auoc. 62 NAACP 
6) Nalional Sociely of D11ck En11ineen M N11tive Americ1n Student Assoc. 65 Nde~ign M Nnt·So·Ruyll Shakespeare Comp. fi7 Nuestra Vo:r: (,II 11•e0b,crver 69 Omicron Delta E11~rlou 70 l'•n·AfricnnCulturRICenler 71 l'll~flllelillll En! Mn,iCIII (0111flllllY 72 l'hy,rcsChrll 1l l're·l..1wSociety 74 f're-Physic•lllleriiJIYCiub 7~ l'rc-l'rofe.uinnlll Soctely 76 l're·VerCiull 77 l'sycholo5:yCiub 78 Scho1utieMaa;I7.UJe 79 Science fl•u•ineu Club HO SIICII/IIIIJ:IIIII Bl I he Si1cns 112 .'\ncictvnfWtMIIt'nr.nJ!meeu RJ SuunCatletllnb R4 Sr.anr~h Clnh 
11.5 St.Edwllrd'siiRIII1111yeu 86 Knights of the lnunaculat11 K7 Club Tone I)Ctennmcd Rl Sludcnt Almnni llelllllot!IGrtmp R'J Stullcnii1111)'CIS 'l!O Student llninn Unaul 
!117 Campm> Alliance fur Rape Ed. 562 Slutlenls Againsl Orun~ Driving 92 Tontm:ulc!slnlemalioual 
91 Club Tone Delenmned 
sl8 ND/SMC Camp!15 Girl Scouts S6] Slutlenl5 for Et!Viron, A lion 9) VielltnmeM:StutlentA550tilltiun 
sl9 TI•e Center for the Jlomclc.u S64 Stur.lcnts for Re!ponsiblo:: Ou~ 9S WSNO 
!110 Cntr. forllmncltli~ Children'• GnH1p S6~ Twenty-first Century Sthools % WVFI 
s21 Ch11rlu Martin Youth Cemer sM University Young Life 97 Snfc1lde 
S22 11•e Children'• Di!pcn~nry S67 Wotnen'slhsourc:e Center 1,111 Stmlent Uninn (fiovc:nnmnl) 
s2.l Cirde K lllltnlllliounl S611 Worltlllunwcr C.:o111ili1111 
.!'024 Cumm. Alliance 111 Scrvt lli~pnniu 100 Atlwmk~ 
9~ hi~h (innleu~ 
S2.5 l"mnmunilyH.cJiturccCenter ~~ Aikidul"luh 101 ND Vltleo 
.~2(, Couucrl fur r:un 11nd l.carnllll! ~2 lluwhna: Clnh 1112 1\.\~111.:. Of A1illi~1ury :itrultnl~ 
s27 lh~nu.,ufMichilluK ~l lh~Jdii!!Ciub 10.1 lli~pnnic l.11w S1ude111~ Auoc: 
s2R. EdnCIIIIOIInl Tlllcm Se/lrch ~4 Climbinlt Cluh Inot Chiuue Frieutl~hiJI Auuc 
s19 EllluenVednu ~.5 Crickc:tCiub IOl (ieLIIIIIIICinh 
~.\0 Ell['trieuti:~l l..e:~min~;Ctlllllcil ~6 Cydin11 Club 106 lnah Mar11uder Drill Team 
sJ I r:uotl•h~re ~7 E.questrianTollln 107 Tar• 1Jc111 Pi 
sJ2 Girl 1\cout~ of Sin11ing Sand~ ~~~ FieltiiiPCkey Club tOR Atlrmuion1 Office (II S Amhuudun) 
s.U ll•lirtal for llumanity A9 1:igure Sklltin11t'lub 109 CftiiiiMIJ Fellowship 
s.l_. llrrnsellltlld S11111 AIO Gymua~lits 110 CampuJ MiniJ>try 
sJ~ Hos11ice ofSI. Joseph County AII Judo Club Ill Lihrrgu;11l Omir 
536 Uugl! O'Brien Youlh Lcatleuhip All Maf1ia1Artalnslitule 112 Women's Lihrr.,:lclll Choir 
s37 lltlpful Umlcrgraduale Students All Men'sClub Volleyball In llandhell Ou1ir 
s.lR Junior Achievemeut Club of NO Al-4 Men's Water Polo 114 F.mm11us 
S.l9 Juvcuilc Justice Center AI~ PtMn·11on Squad 115 Corol'rirnaveu 
S-10 Km~hls of Columbus A16 RowUIG Club 116 Voice~ orF11ilh 
s-41 l.cl_!al Sc1viee~ l'rol_!rAm nf N IN Al7 S11ilinwCiuh 117 NIJChurale 
S42 l.ifcTrenlnu:ntCenler Alii SkiTenm/Ciuh IIR SMC·Nil CnllcJ:I;II~ l'hnu 
stl.\ J.ul(anCclllct Al9 Tai Cht/Krm11 Fn ("luh 119 Folk Ch01r 
S4.4 J..o~,:an Cemer (ND Clnb) A20 Ulti111ale Frislx:e Club 120 Club ToRe Dclennmetl 
S45 SurK:rSibs A21 Women's Doxin11 Club sl Cathulic:Chllriliu 
sot6 llniiJntldiu A22 \ Women'l W11cr Polo s2 lhumah'51lon.\C 
s-17 Mem llusjtilalMetliciiiE..'JIInrcrs AB Wtlfld lae Kwun Oo fedcr11110n 
Mil Mtnlalllcalth Assotiatrou S4 AIDS Assist/SWAT 
s.l Women·~ CAlC Center 
l{tcSitorls & FAST ss lli~n101herJIIIi~tS•5•ers 
S49 Ms Wi1.ard D11y ProJ!rllm 
s50 Nci~:hhurhood Study llclp Prog. RSI·RSS S(o M11n11nlial :~mii.JI l'111111 de Amist11d sj I Nl~ Neighhorhuod Co11ncil s7 esc Smnrllel SeminAl l'wjecr 
sH Rteydi,'hish Athlcllr Clubs sR ('S(' l'u.~l Ciud Se•vite 
s~' Nll/Sti.H'Uit:ht"lnl ire 
TuMI'$ A I -A l.f 
sH Sl Jt~~.:!•ht'hapi11SI.Ih:nlthc,arc S\0 Center ror Social Conc:e1111 
s1J l'SC llrlmn !'lunge: 
SH St VmcentiJel'llniSucicty 
Social Suvicc 
s56 Sell OO"euse Serv•ces Sl I Cenler for Social Conce•111 
Clubs & Organlzalionl
s57 Slieenfl.ifc Sll App.-lachi~ UrcRk Seminar 
sl2 WnJhin~:toni>CiheFIIr:Scmmar Tt~bfc.t S l ..J'66
sSII South Bend Comm SthQull'nJll 
5~9 SIJCSC Adult Etlucfllion !';!~ Amnes1y lnlenralional 
Sl4 Anteriun (IIIICCI Sociely 
MoO St. Advne~~le for lndusive Ministry CIIIIIJJUII Ministry 'ill• 1\ULilldAirSotiety 
SC•I SimlcntTuturird F.tl.l'rovram Tuldt"tl J10-/IR 

----~-----._,..-----------~------­

I 
Get 100 FREE minutes. 
Then call anywhere in the U.S. for only I0¢ a minute. 
Sign up for an AT&T One Rate® plan and your first 100 minutes are FREE.* Whatever your calling needs are AT&T has a One Rate plan that's right for you. 

AT&T One Rate® Plus: 10¢ a minute-one low rate all the time on state-to-state calls you dial from home. Whoever. Whenever. Wherever you call in the U.S. And just a $4.95 monthly fee. 
AT&T One Rate® Off Peak: I 0¢ a minute on your state-to-state, direct dialed calls from home from 7pm-7am and all weekend long; 25¢ a minute all other times. And there's no monthly fee.* 
Sign up with AT&T and get 100 minutes FREE. 
Call I 800 654-04 71 
and mention offer code 59917 or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
.... 

ATs.T
I t ' s a I I w i t h i n y o u r r e a c h ."' 
• Terms and condtt1ons apply. Free m1nutes promot1on applies to first full monthly b1ll. Unused mmutes cannot be earned over. Offer exp1res I 0/15/98. Offer based on choKe of AT&T One Rate Plus or AT&T One Rate Off Pedk Plan. Plans subject to billing availability. In-state rates vary. $3 monthly .mm1mum usdge appl1es to One Rate Off Peak Plan_ Call for deta1ls. © 1998 AT& 1 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 25, 1998 
• NFl PRESEASON 
Denver defeats Green Bay in Super Bowl rematch 
Associated Press 
ways to go." trying to establish the run. We yards to Bill Schroeder, and nerback Craig Newsome and The Packers continued to be want [Travis] Jervey to carry Raymont Harris scored from caught Elway's pass down theDENVER plagued by turnovers. They the ball." 
the 1. right side at the Green Bay 40. 
Denver coach Mike had 31 in their first three 
Jervey, subbin.g for the Rookie Brian Griese helped Late in the quarter, BroncosShanahan called it "more than games and another 11 Monday unsigned Dorsey Levens, had move the Broncos in position defensive end Marvin
just a normal preseason 
night. only 18 yards on 13 carries. for Elam's winning kick with a Washington stripped Travisgame," which is about what "It takes momentum away Elam's 35-yard field goal had 34-yard pass to tight end Jervey of the ball, and safety
you'd expect of a rematch from us," coach Mike 
given Denver a 31-24 lead Byron Chamberlain. Tyrone Braxton ran 7 yards
between last January's Super Holmgren said. "You don't with 11 :01 remaining, but the Denver led 21-17 at halftime. with the fumble for a 14-7Bowl teams. have a chance of winning Packers, behind backup quar­The Packers scored just 44 lead.With the Mile High Stadium against a good football team terback Doug Pederson, tied it seconds into the game when After a Green Bay field goal
crowd at mid-season volume like the Broncos with that 
with 6:53 left. safety LeRoy Butler intercept­early in the second quarter,
and both teams playing with many penalties. It's just too Pederson drove the Packers ed a tipped pass and returned Darrien Gordon camped underheightened intensity, the hard. to Denver's 37-yard line when it 30 yards for a touchdown. a punt and, sprung by blocksBroncos. who beat the Packers "I thought our first defensive the march stalled and Sean 
Denver tied it midway from Dwayne Carswell and
31-24 seven months ago, pre­team did a great job. They got Landeta punted. George through the first quarter when Detron Smith, dashed 65 yardsvailed again. 
long on us, but that was an Coghill fumbled the punt and Elway hit Rod Smith on an 80-down the left sideline for a 21­
Jason Elam 's 49-yard field excellent play by John and the Mike Prior recovered at the yard scoring pass. Smith 10 lead with 9:15 left in thegoal with 3:10 remaining lifted receiver. On offense, we were Denver 17. Pederson passed _16 
gained separation from eor-half.
Denver to a 34-3 1 victory 
32MB ofAdditional Memory Add this, and you have the capability to access the Internet
Extra! Extra! 
while running multiple software applications. It also lets you
The Power Macintosh G3 is the fastest 
work with high-end multimedia/publishing applications computerwe've ever built. With the brutish and squeeze every ounce of performance out of feature­PowerPC'" G3 processor at its heart, the G3 rich word processing and spreadsheet software or DVD­connects quickly to the Internet, opens PC files ROMs. 
Virtual PC 2.0 with Windows 95
with ease, increases personal Just add Virtual PC and it's no problem to run popular
productivity, and unlocks creativity-
PG programs on your Mac.
at asurprisingly affordable price. 
$100 Display Rebate 
Add an Apple 17" or Apple 20" display (16.1 and 19.02 Butwait, it gets better. If you purchase a 
inch diagonal viewable image size) to your Power PowerMac·· G3 desktop or minitower or a Macintosh G3 desktop, minitower, or PowerBook PowerBook' G3 betweenJuly 11 and October 24, computer and you have the option of receiving a$100 
you can also choose one of these three powerful rebate. Free Bonus Offer for Higher Ed ONLY! One Year Applecare· Service Plan
add-ons at no additional cost. Receive aFREE year of AppleCare~ service coverage as abonus. This is in addition to the original one year-limited warranty for atotal of two years of service coverage. 

©19lJXApplc Computer. Inc. All ri~ht-. rescn'Cd. Apple, the Apple~'~-''· ~lacmto$h, 1~!\\'CT ~l:tcintnsh. Puwcrllouk. i~~JC. and "Think different"' arc trademark.' tlf Apple CmllJilllcr. Inc., re~i.,tcrcd in the IJ.S.A. and 1!\hcrcuwllric~. \'irtuaii'C i' atrademark uf t~nmtoctLx. Appk't~tre b a rcf;istcrcd service mark of Apple Computer, Inc l~l'M!rPC is atrademark of International Uusincs.~ ~l:tchincs Corpomtion. used umk•r hcc1N' therefrom. Other pmduct and company namL~ mcnt~med herem mar he tr.ulcmark., ~~ their re~pecth·e companies. ~tcnlion of nun-Apple product'\ is for mformallonal purpo~s only and cmt~htlUes neither an endorsement nor arcconuncndation. Apple <1.\.,Ullle~ no rc~ponsihilii)'With n:~u·d to the ~l'lcction. pcrfunmmCl•, or u.;c of the~ product~. Performance Ctllllpari.•imL~ arc h<L'ICd on BYTEmark tntc.,ocr index.
Think different. 
www.a le.com/education or1-800 877-4433 

Monday night. 
The Broncos built leads of 21-10 and 28-17 in an other­wise evenly played game that saw each team's defense and special teams score touch­downs. 
Brett Favre and John Elway dueled to a near standoff. each throwing a touchdown pass in the first half. 
Elway, who played only the first half for the Broncos, com­pleted 13 of 22 passes for 179 yards. Favre, whose stint last­ed through the first series of the third quarter, was 13-of-23 for 155 yards. 
While Shanahan said he "saw great effort out there in all three phases of the game," Elway complained about the state of last season's top-rated offense after three preseason games. "We haven't put enough points on the board," Elway said. "We're not hitting on all cylinders. We've got a 

: Unlimited : Bed 
I I or 
: Tanning : Sessions iI only $40.00 iI only $35.00 
L--------------J • L-------------­
Starting Labor Day: Tan the rest of '98 for $98 
Grape & McKinley near KMartUniversity Commons by UP Mall 
272-7653 256-9656 

RECREATIONAL SPORTS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Welcome Studentsl lntramurals Fitness RecServices Club Sports 
Located in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 631-6100 www.nd.edu/-recsport 
RECSPORTS STAFF WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE RSRC TO ! ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT OUR PROGRAM I 
J Tuesday, August 25, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• NFL PRESEASON 
Bucs impressive in 41-7 victory over Raiders 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND 
Tampa Bay rookie Habih Abdullah sat quietly in the locknr room, emdling a football in his arms after running for two touchdowns against the Oakland Haiders. 
The future. not the game, was on his mind. 
"I don't have any control about my 1:hanens." said the undraf'ted free ag1~nt out ol' Lehigh. who faces cuts Tunsday. "I can only control my Pl'l'ort. That's all I can 
worry about." got to regroup." Gruden said. Abdullah scored on 1-and "We've got to get our players 
~ .........·a·.·I·A··~·.H....N..............LO 
:c;,.\ ·,,..,._ :-~···~·.>·-~~-'..~~.·,".~-~-·~.-. .
. -"---_:_~.11 
: ~-.. --. SATURDAY, AUGUST 29 • • I0:30 AM AT ST. JOE BEACH 
• 
• (RAIN DATE IS SUNDAY. AUGUST 30) • : • • • : • • • : • • 
•• p-.~ : ~/. . e WWW.nd.edu/-reCSpOft 
37 -yard runs as the Buccaneers beat the Raiders 41-7 on Monday night. Tho vic­tory evened the Bucs' presea­son record at 2-2. 
"We did need this one," coach Tony Dungy said. "We hadn't played well in the last two games. but we were rested up and it showed." 
The Raiders, who beat Dallas and Green Bay on the road, arrived in Oakland for their first exhibition horne game and earned rookie head coach Jon Gruden his first loss. 
"What this all means is wn've ready for next week and we've got to respond to adversity as a football team. And we will do that." 
Mike Alstott scored on an 8­yard run and quarterback Trent Dilfer hit Andrew Jordan with a fourth-down 1-yard pass to give the Bucs a 20-0 lead by halftime. Dilfer also found Karl Williams with a 25-yard touch­down pass. 
The Raiders (2-1) appeared confounded by the Bucs in the first half. unable to get close enough for a field goal attempt, let alone a touchdown. They opened the second half just as poorly: Quarterback Jeff 
~ Min°r 
: continued from page 21 
: "The seniors, overall, have
• 
done a great job," said sopho­: more outside linebacker Grant 

• 
Irons. "It's been great to have

• 
such strong senior leadership." 

• 
But from a defensive perspec­

• 
tive, Minor's presence is still 

• 
missed. : "Praetiee is going well, but it's 

• 
not the same without him," said 

• 
Irons of Minor's absence. "lie 

• 
brings sueh leadership and such : a positive influence that you can 

• 
tell there's a missing link right 

• 
now. You can really tell what he 

• 
brings to the team." : Right now, the entire team is 

• 
pulling for a speedy recovery for 

• 
their voealleader. 

• 
"Everything should work out : with [Minor's] treatment, and 

• 
he'll be back on the field with e plenty of time to prepare for 


• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Michigan," said Irons. 
George was sacked by Steve White. then intercepted by Donnie Abraham on Oakland's first series. 
The interception led to Dilfer's scoring pass to Williams. Dilfer was 8-of-16 for 
121 yards  and  two  touch­ 
downs.  
"We  did  the  little  things  

well," Dilfer said. "When you can control the clock like we did and the defense gives you good field position. it can't be anything but good." 
Heisman Trophy winner Charles Woodson intercepted Dill'er's pass to Williams to end the Buccaneers' first series of the game, but on the ensuing series George was sacked on third down by Warren Sapp. 
Tampa Bay came back on the next series and scored on Alstott's 8-yard run. Alstott, who signed a five-year contract extension worth up to $32 mil­lion last Monday, was sidelined for the first four weeks of training camp with a sprained left hip. 
Dilfer, a native Californian who went to Fresno State, hit Bert Emanuel with a 52-yard pass in the second quartiH, leading to Michael !lusted's 42­yard field goal that put the Bucs up 10-0. 

TheObserver/BrandonCandura 
Kory Minor led the Irish with 3 1/2 sacks last season. 


BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIAL 
Large Pepperoni Pizza, 20 oz. bottle of coke, breadstix or buffalo wings 
Welcome Back Students! 
Kick off the year right with a large 1 topping pizza for $5.99 If you think you can handle it -try our new 16'? pizza (extra-large) 
...
1 topping $7.99 
~({ijo@~®® 
----~---­
--------~~---____,..--~' -~~---~~------~----­

~l 
Tuesday, August 25, I 998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• U.S. AMATEUR 
Defending champion Kuchar just two back of lead 
Associated Press 
HOCHESTEH 
Mitch Voges tlw 1991 champion, was among seven golfers to shoot a 68 Monday in first-round qualifying for the 
U.S. Amateur Championship. 
I>nl'nnding champion Matt Kuchar of l.akn Mary, Florida; 1997 runner-up .Joel Krihnl of Pleasanton. California; and British Amatnur champion Sergio (;arcia of Spain, all opmwd with 70s. 
Voges opened with the 2-under 68 on Oak Hill's 6,908-yard East Course, the site of the match-play portion of the tournament. Scott McGihon of Bermuda Dunes, California, and Patrick Carter of Lesage, West Virginia, also shot 68s on the East Course. 
Jesse Hibler of Boise, Idaho; Hank Kuehne of McKinney, Texas; and Mark Northey of Boswell, Georgia, shotl­under 68s on the 6,574-yard West Course. 
Kuchar, Kribel and Garcia also played the West Course. 
"The wind was swirling," said Kuchar, the Georgia Tech star who tied for 21st in the Masters and tied for 14th in the U.S. Open. 
"I kept all my notes and yardages from my practice rounds, and it was all worthless today," he said. "It's days like today I wish I had an exemption straight into match play." 
Jackson took advantage of an early 
tee time. 
"I got lucky today, because I went off early," Jackson said. "The golf course was pretty soft, and I could pretty much pick a distance and hit it. The wind picked up about halfway through my round, and I just held on for the last 10 or 11 holes." 
Erik Compton, the 18-year-old from Miami who received a heart transplant six years ago, shot a 70 on the West Course. 



No coupon necessary 
additives! 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
The men's soccer team suffered a 2-1 loss to the Buckeyes yesterday. 
23rd & Iron wood. At Schlolzsky's Deli. ph.243-9273 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Fellow freshman Tim Storino started for the Irish on defense and played the whole game. 
Rounding out the fresh­men's presence on the field was the Irish's only goal scor­er, Shane Walton. 
Connecting on forward Andrew Aris' feed, Walton lit the Irish scoreboard for the first time this season in the 76th minute of play. 
"Despite the loss, the team is playing well together," Husso said. "lin the game! we started working on the things we have been doing in prac­tice." 
Senior goalie Grog Velho captured six saves in 90 min­utes of play on Ohio's 13 shots. 
Reggie McKnight, the team's fourth-leading goal scorer in his freshman year, was out of the lineup with an injury, but has returned and will be ready for this Friday's 
exhibition versus DePaul. 
• I • • ... • •
.-"" • -.\ •~ --• ­
~ 
~ . ' ' ~ • • ~ ... I
"' 
~ 
• ... 
...
I 
I ... 

I
-
, -'. 
... 
" •
• 
•... 
... ~ 
• 
•
THE CATERING OFFICE HAS .JOBS FOR YOU! 
·­
WE OFFER: *$5.95 HR PLUS GRATUITIES *FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES *BONUS FOR WORKING FOOTBALL LUNCHEONS 
CALL 631.-5449 CATERING OFFICE NDH/STREET ENTRANCE 
COME ON BY!! 
----~--~---------------_,.,~~~ 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 25, 1998 
throughout her career at Notre
Sobrero 
Dame and is now playing at the 
continued from page 24 
great." 
When Sobrcro joined the national team she had to go somewhere on the soccer field that she was not too familiar with at Notre Dame ~~ the bench. 
"Sitting on the bench is line because I don't think that I should be starting right now," Sobrero said. ''I'm sitting on the bench behind sueh great players so its not an insult to me." 
Sobrero has gotten ofT the pine and into plenty of action this summer as she played in nine games earning four starts. Her last two starts came in the Goodwill Games helping the U.S. captun~ the gold medal. 
"Winning the gold medal at the Goodwill games in front of 
12.000 people was one of the greatest experiences and thrills of my career, along with winning the national championship at Notre Dame," Sobrero said. 
Sobrero is back on campus as a volunteer assistant coach until she rejoins the national team September 7th before the U.S. Cup. Along with answering the phones for head coach Chris Petrucelli, Sobrero works with the defenders in building the 1998 Irish team. 
"She's a great example of someone who has worked 
highest level." Petrucelli said. "She's a great person for our players to look at. She brings a level of experience and competi­tive attitude that we want all of our players to have." 
While Sobrero is making the same kind of impact for team USA that she made for the Irish, she still pinches herself making sure that she is really teammates with Mia Hamm and Kristine Lilly. 
"It's pretty unbelievable because I went to their camps when I was a kid and now I'm like, 'Hey Mia,"' Sobrero said. 
Although she !'inds her self among some of the best players in the world becoming their teammates has hardly been a transition. 
"It's pretty cool because they're all down to earth," Sobrero said of her new team­mates. "I was really scared at the start because I thought they might be prima donnas, and they're not. They are so like everybody I've ever played with." 
Sobrero is taking advantage of having a roster spot on the national team as its perks include more than just travel. 
"I just got a contract from Adidas so I'm getting some money for what I'm doing,'' Sobrero said. 
"Right now I just want to do 

MEN IN BLACK 11J~a~re~? 11JWu~~? 

"Jrn f1Wte ~tm t4e ~<4~ <me-~~ '7'~ ~ 
~ s~ • ~ v-.e. 1~ 46556 
(219) 631-63F5 • Mt{t-:1/.__ . ..a.utu/-~ 
ANSWER""dP. 
THECALLW 
Sa[on%veau 
Welcome back to school Students and Faculty!
-· 
Our gift to you: $10 off first 1 hour massage or Aveda spa facial 
AVEBA· 
or $5 Ladies cut $3 Men's cut 
(With Lisa, Adrienne, or Jocelyn) Call now for your appointment and mention this ad for discounts! 
1733 N. Ironwood
277-6767 
South Bend, IN 46556 exp. 10/31/98 
this,'' she continued. "It's a dream and luckily my parents are going to support me finan­cially. I just don't want to regret later on that I didn't try this." 
The biggest thrill for Sobrero is simply putting on that jersey and playing in venues larger than Alumni Field. 
"It's awesome [playing for the home fans],'' Sobrero said. "It's so cool but it's so nerve-racking though because you don't want to let them down. Sometimes I just think 'I'm on the U.S. nation­al team· and everyone cheers you. Playing for your country is an amazing feeling." 
Sobrero and her teammates will try to recapture the World Cup this summer wlwn the tour­nament comes to tlw U.S. Along with trying to capture the title, the squad will also be trying to popularize the sport of soccer, and Sobrero is thrilled to be a part of it. 
"I think we're definitely one of the favorites to win and I think that's great because we'll get more of the American public to see soccer," Sobrero said. 
Since graduating in May, Sobrero has watched her friends settle down in the real world while her dream world has turned into reality. 
---------------------------------------, 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1999-2000 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27-6:00p.m. 
126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 

Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More 
Location: 
-in the Campus Shoppes -1835 South Bend Ave. -Between Ironwood and Edison 
Hours: 
-Sunday to Thursday 11 am to 1 am -Friday and Saturday 11 am to 3 am 
FREE DELIVERY 243-9911 


Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More!!! 
Now Hiring -Flexible Schedule, Insur~nce, Paid Vacations, Holiday Pay, Weekly Paychecks, Free Food & Discounts! FREE DELIVERY 243-9911 
(Limited Delivery Area-$5 Minimum-Drivers Carry Less Than $20 Check us out a http://www.wolfie.net/wolfies.htm 
Saturday, August 22, 1998 The Observer • TODAY 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-· 
.. 
... 
'nuu·ulwn· Ill l·l1t1'1tl;a, /.urn '"'· Jht· "'" 
'hittiiiC j.!l'llll\ II filii! him, {,;1/jf~. illi:.!OIII'Ift• cl;mt!h-' It Hill Itt' Itt•'· ;uuln ntnll~a·\t'IOI:.!I' n·'h llf1Uil ht"' ht•ll\ ;uul ~\\itu' 111 In' lu·;td h11· oJU.'l', hl' i~ happ'. 
1\u\\ ht· ''a' in a plan· lil\r 1111 olln·r. It "a~ a ... tr;tugt· Ill''' laucl.lilh.·tl \\ith lllu!\SIIIIlill;.! llo\\ l'~''· ).!ITt' II ~'"''"· aucl 
ITalh haul111udt•n• art. \ trul~ il\\t'­"'nt~· platT to "hidt /.tu:u ruuld mtl.\ 
BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 01<, Q\JtNC:Y, THE FtRST !LL LoBYooM 
Go BoNII:,GUII~C.Y! UM, THAT You 

SouNOED MoRE
lli•N& WE'LL NEED To Do BALL AND YoU Go BoNK! 
IS DEMoNSTRATE To HOU.Y­BoNk: IT oFF YoUR NoSE tNTo THAT
WOoDlltAT '­You CAN Do HooP uP THERE. 
ANYTHING lliAT 
'­
THIS MoVIE Do& CAN 00. 
DILBERT 
lN WEE!<. i\-\R£E, WE'RE OPTIMI5TlC A55U~P­1 \4AD TO f'I\AKE SOME 
VI5ITED BY AN ALIEN 
NAI"\EO D'UTOX lNAG R.EVE.NUE TAR.GE.T. 
TIONS TO 1"'\EET TI-lE 
WHO OFF(R5 iO 51-\ARE 1-\15 ADVANCED TECI-1­NOLOGY. 
_) 
ACROSS 26 Kind of pack 43 Seasoning for pommes frites
t "Dennis the 27 Decrease? 44 Took a stab at?
Menace" 29 "Gigi" star girl 46 List ender
30 Adapt, in a way 9 Word on a door st Another list
33 Pulsar studier ender
t3 Taskmaster 34 Every which 52 Put two and two
way together14 Bring about 35--d'Aosta
t7Goodbye 
(region of Italy) 53 Bereft
abroad 36 Stygian 54 Play to the
t8 Photographer's balcony
37 Up-to-the­minute chemical 
t9 Former Mideast in its. DOWN
38 Kindergarten learning20 Sidekick t Calendar divs.
39 --juris (legal22 Italian number 
term) 2 Actress 23 Econ. figure 40Pink lady Gardner 24 Nail site ingredient 3 Alfonso, e.g. 41 Jungle climber 4 Foundation
25 Goddess whose name means 42 24-Across·s timbers "chosen one" opposite 5 Child's play 
6 Bring up 7 Alway 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Semis 9 Excite 
to U.S. coin 

LtkE "SPLAT"' STiLL HAVE To ME. lliAT NERF 
' SET, WOULD 
YoU? 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ THEN 00 WE U5£. HIS TECHNOLOGY TO DE5IGN 
OUR 
NE.W PR.OOUCT? NO, WE. KILL HIM ~NO 5ELL THE. ~UTOPSY 
\/IDEO. 
) 
25 Onetime P.O.W. 39 City on the 45Day--­
word 
site, slangily Meuse 
47 Mark aimed at 
t t Much-debated 
26 Lament 40 Ninnies in curling
defense prog. 
48 Alfonso's queen
420nemaybe
27 "If --a nickel 
12 Late September 
apparent 49 Rosy 
50 Drink suffix 
43~f_?Ce 
.1 
Ar!§wers to any three clues in this puzzls> ar.e available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). .•,... 
Annual subscriptions are available for tile best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
TUESDAY, AUGUST 25,1998 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sean Connery, Elvis Costello, Tom Skerritt, Anne Archer 
Happy Birthday: Whal more could you want? You're charming, creative and full of great ideas. You have a practical outlook and you know instinctively what will and whal won'l work. Your only draw­back is being indecisive. Learn lo act on your gut feelings and you can accomplish whatever you set oul to do this year. Your numbers: 3, 9, 16, 27, 36,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will need patience when dealing with your emotional partner today. Addi­tional stress has strained the situation to a poinl that is hard to deal with. Calm communication will be neces­sary. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Overindulgence will cause you to feel sluggish and fatigued. It is besl to try lo get some rest today. Taking part in physical activities will only result in exhaustion or possible injury. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Prob­lems with skin, bones or teeth may cause setbacks. Don't neglect things that are likely to get worse. Your dietary habits may be the cause of your problems. 00000 
C~NCER (June 21-July 22): Your partner may not be honesl with you today. Don't make excuses for his or her poor behavior or lack of attention. You must face the situation in order lo make things better. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't make others aware of your secrets or your findings. It is best lo hold your cards close to the vest if you want to get to the bottom of an unsa­vory situation. 0000 
VIRGO {Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): ThiS IS a good day to do things with chil· dren You need to gel invotv... d in hobbies that will spark an interesl and stimulate your mind. 000 
LIBRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your suspiciuns may nol be unwarranled Don'l make your move loo quickly. Your lhinking is nol loo clear and you need to talk to someone you lrusl fnr some sound advice. Emotional stress may cause you lo make a mislake 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Hnl and spicy foods will contribute to stomach J'roblems. You can expect lo be limite by family members pulling demands on your time. Learn to say no if necessary. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your contribulions to a worthwhile group will leave you in good stand· ing with important individuals. Don't let your personal life inlerfere with your goals. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will attract dubious companions today. Don't be too eager to lend them money or possessions. Try lo be honest with yourself regarding your personal life 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Opportunities will lead to travel and adventure. You will meet new friends or lovers while en roule. Keep an open mind and you will acquire valu­able information. 00000 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): You won'l be too happy if others lean on you too much. Help those aboul whom you ieel the most obligation. You will overspend on children if you aren"l careful. 000 
!'~()~_l)a~c , 2'()~ W~d~esday at 7:30p.m., the w~-m-en:' from Sahit Mary's College will be hosting a Folk'Dance in the Clubhouse. There is a fee for admis­
sion. j .,,. •n 
Th~Big Lebowski-The film "The Big Lebowski" wUl be showing at the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art on Saturday. There is a small price for admission, 
-tkDriVe-in on the Quad-The movies "Scream" and "Swingers" wUl be playing outside on the big screen o:tl North Quad Saturday at dusk. Free popcorn and sodas to the early birds. 
Admission only to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and ijoly Cross students with student ID. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
or early October event 15 Caustic 16 Actress Parker and others 21 Respectful one 23 "--Diary" (1943 movie) 
28 Dregs 29 Oblique line 30 Working, as a 
car 31 Lacquered metalware 32 Pseudo 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
0  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
0  Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________ _ Address _________________________________________ City---------------------State ____ Zip________ 
~---~ --~­
.------------­-~­
~. 
t 

• Yankees seek to 
• Ken Griffey Jr. belted become first team ever­
his 44th homer of the to record 100 wins 
season as the Mariners before September. 
beat the White Sox ll-
PORTS 
10. 
p.J6 p.l5 
O THE 
Tuesday, August 25, 1998 BSERVER 
By JOE CAVATO 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
While her graduating class­mates began to search for their niche in the real world. Kate Sobrero is enjoying life in a dn•am world. 
That dream is doing something that she has been doing_ probably before she could read N the only difference now is the color of her jersey. The Bloomfield, Mich. native traded in the Blue and Gold of the Irish for the Red, White, and Blue of the U.S. national soccer team. 
Sobrero strapped on the spikes and hit the field for the first time in that Team USA uniform against Argentina in late April. Although she has spent countless hours on the soccer field, Sobrero said there is something different about international competition and feeding crosses 
• fOOTBALL 
to the best player in the world, Mia Hamm. 
''I'm still pretty nervous when I go in," Sobrero said after her squad battled Germany to a 1-1 tie June 25 in St. Louis. ''I'm thinking, 'Don't screw up, don't screw up.' I just don't want to let anyone down." 
While she may be feeling the butterflies, they have not affect­ed her play. 
"Kate is a great defender," 
U.S. head coach Tony DiCicco said. "You saw that every time she had a duel, she won it. That is what she brings to our team. She is a very confident defender and she thinks she can play defense against anybody. And I think she's right." 
Sobrero is still adjusting to international play as she and her squad prepare for the World Cup in 1999. 
"Everyone is so much better 
A Minor Setback 
Irish optimistic about captain's injury 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Edimr 
Senior outside linebacker Kory Minor has been a mainstay on the Irish defense for three years. 
As a junior, Minor started all 13 games for Notre Dame, lead­ing the team with 3 1/2 sacks and logging more minutes than any other defensive player. The 1998 second-team preseason all-American, according to Football News. had missed only one practice during his entire Notre Dame career. 
That was until Thursday, when the tri-captain left the team's first preseason scrim­mage early with a badly sprained ankle. 
With nagging injuries to nose guard Lance Legree and tackle Brad Williams. Minor's ankle sprain seemed to magnify the defensive unit's problems. 
But the prognosis is not all bad. 
"Jim Russ, one of our train­ers, told me Kory's a fast heal­er," said Davie following yester­day's practice. "Thankfully, it's just an ankle, but I'm sure [Minor] isn't really thinking that right now." 
The drop linebacker should 
be back on the practice field by 
Monday, and at full speed in 
time for Notre Dame's home 
[on the international Ievell." 
Sobrero said. "In college some of 
the teams we played weren't 
that great so you didn't have to 
do that much as a defender, but 
here everyone has the ability to 
beat you and I've never had that 
before. 
"Usually I'm pretty confident in knowing that I can handle people, but now it's different," .she continued. "They're not in my league yet, but I'm trying to 
get there." 
Coach DiCicco disagrees with 
the modest Sobrero, saying she 
has made the jump to interna­
tional competition smoothly. 
"I think she's making a state­
ment that she has to be on the 
roster when we travel," DiCicco 
said. "What she needs to do now 
is to get better on the attacking 
side of the game, but she's doing 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Kate Sobrero has rejoined the Irish as a volunteer assistant coach. 


• WoMEN's SoccER 
Sobrero helps Team USA to gold at Goodwill Games 
see SOBRERO I page 22 

training camp Kory had," said Minor's injury, coupled with The Irish will have to rely on 
• MEN's SoccER 
Irish lose to OSU in preseaon 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Sporrs Writer 
On the scoreboard, the men's soccer team started its season with a 2-1 exhibition loss to Ohio State, but with goals set for its September 1 opener against Valparaiso, the team gained a valuable opportunity to put its preparation to practice. 
The Buckeyes came out in charge, hitting nine shots on· goal to Notre Dame's three in the first half. 
Ohio State's Brian Feldhaus, a junior midfielder, netted his first of two with 10 minutes left in the first half. 
"We made a couple of changes in the sm:ond half,"said del"enscman Steve Maio. "We were able to put pressure on their side as we pushed for­ward." 
Before the Irish found the back of the net, Ohio State would capitalize on the pressing Irish line. 
Roger Roush found Feldhaus in the now open Irish backfield, allowing him to score his sec­ond goal 3:57 into the second half. 
"Although we started slow, we picked it up in the second half," said freshman Matt Russo, who came into the con­test midway through the first half in the midfield. "Our team's fitness allowed us to." 
opener, a Sept. 5 date with the defending national champion Michigan Wolverines. 
"As coaches we were just talking about what a great 
Davie. "He came in about 245 pounds, which is about 15 pounds more than he was last year, and his quickness was really what impressed me." 
an overall poor defensive per­formance and a recent case of "dead legs," gives Davie cause for concern as the Wolverines loom on the horizon. 
the leadership of their 17 Husso and the other freshmen seniors, who have racked up have brought an immediate quality minutes in the past few impact to the team. seasons. 
see MINOR I page 19 see SOCCER I page 21 
vs Michigan 1!lt vs Valparaiso September 5, 2:30 p.m. M September I, 7:30p.m.
SPORTS 
vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler 
-September 12, II a.m. at Michigan State at Valparaiso 
ATA 
-~ 
\~ September I, 4 p.m. @ September l, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 



