+ 
• Disaster relief efforts get underway after 
• How seriously do you take an SYR? Scene inves­
Tuesday

Hurricane Mitch, but Central American lead­
tigates some dance mentalities. 
ers plead for more aid. 
NOVEMBER 

World & Nation • 5 
Scene• 10-11 
10, 1998 


VOL XXXII NO. 49 
• fACULTY SENATE 
Malloy talks about range of issues 
By DEREK BETCHER A•~istanr Nc·ws Editor 
Possible Bi~ Ten ml'mbership, aleohol abusn, campus construction plans and finaneial issuns wnrn among the hy topics within Univnrsity president Father Edward Malloy's address to tho Faculty Sonate. 
Malloy used the event to address a 
widn n;ngn of fanllty questions and 
eont·erns that had b1~on p1·nparod 
and presented to him before Monday 
night's senalP mel'ling. 
IIPadlining llw evnning's news, the 
merits of Bi~ Tnn confernnr.n mPm­
bership an• still bl'ing weighed very 
sr>riously. Malloy told the f;u:ulty. A 
formal rnpol't and recommendation 
will b!\ ready for presentation to 
NotrP Danw's Board of Trustees in 
thren months. 
"I expect that the Board will rnrPivn a recommendation from our ollkers ttl our February m<\nting on whether to proeeed forward with a more formal discussion." 
Malloy oulli1wd sewn r.rilic:al ques­
tions relating to Big Tnn membership 
that Univr.rsity offic£'rs and r.on­
see MALLOY/ page 6 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCIL 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Bradley discusses childrens issues 
By ANNIE SPILLNER Ncw,Wrirc·r 
Our nation must rnvitalize nducation and n~focus the govornment's attention­on rhi.ldrnn's issues in order to solve probiPms such as drug abuse. poor par­nnting and wPifare roform, said former sPnalor Bill Bradley at a question-and­ansWI'r snssion with membnrs of tlH~ Notr1' Damn community yestnrday. 
"\Vp must take ovPrybody up if wo're going to fullill tlw promise of publir, edu­cation," Bradlny said at a town mooting in tho C1•nt1'r for So1:ial Concerns. "Wo havn to farililatn lifntinw education in this rounlry. Wn Iw.Pd to make a signifk.ant rontribulion to nducation in this country." 
Bradlny warned against dismissing chil­dn~n's dirlkultins as problems limitnd to tlw l'll"Pcts of poor pan~nting. 
"Saying 'It's tho parnnts' fault,' blocks our sPnsn of rompassion and empathy for childrnn,'' llradley said. Many paronts of troublnd rhildrnn arn simply normal pno­pl!~ ,·aught in diftkult situations. Bradlny said. rPporting that 25 pnrcnnt of' childrnn liw in singln-pan~nt honws and 40 per­r.Pnt liw in homns wlwrP. both parents worl\. 
"ll1dping out m1~ans helping parents with Uwir children," Bradley said. "The point is to knPp the bind between mother and rhild." 
As an nxample of one such mnasure, he t:itnd thn 1993 Family and Medical Leave Act which guarantees time oil' for workers with nnwborn children. Bradley advocated thn nxpansion of' family-friendly work­plari'S and mnntionod college scholarship rnwards for mothors who choose to stay homn lo earn for thnir children. 
Of paramount importancn for children. 

said Bradley. the U.S. must fully embra_ce a co~lmit-"Saying 'it's the parent's fault ' blocks 
mrmt to provide all ehildn~n • ' • , with a sound education. our sense of compassiOn ... for chtldren. 
Bradley stressed a need for national leadership to sot basic educational stan­dards at tho state level, strirter guidelines for grade promotion and groater incE~ntives to lure quality teachers into the systnm. 
"I think you should have federal standards and fed­eral commitments to indi­vidual children. Then you should encourage state expp,rimentation to deal with the fundamental problem -single-parent families." 
Good teachers are the best way to ensure a quali­ty r,d ucation. according to Bradley. who reported a tremendous demand for young people entering the field. 
Bradley rocommended the practice of weeding out bad teachers and being sure to reward successful 

ones. 

"Perl'ormance should be paid. II' you can't get rid of teachers who aren't doing the job. then it's not a healthy atmosphere for education," Bradley said. "We need to look <~.t teachers as an economic develop­ment. 
Possible solutions Bradley mentioned inducted exempting urban school teachers from income tax, raising teac:hcr salaries, and morP fully utilizing programs such ACE and Teach America. 
lie also raised tho possibility of appor­tioning some of last year's $70 billion fnd­eral budget surplus towards education. 
"In tlw long run. it will be bett1~r for 
see BRADLEY I page 4 
Committee proposes freeze on tuition hikes 

By FINN PRESSLY News Writer 
Following months of researc:h, tho CLC's Undergraduate Finanee CommitteE\ opened discussion on the possibility of a freeze in tuition inernases. 
"I One thing] WE~ 're consider­ing is the rocommPndation that the university frnPze all tuition increases for the next few years." said Brian ()'Donoghue. chair of thn committee. 
The committne presentnd evi­dnnce that is both theological and historieal in nature. 
"Vatil:an II and a recent Bishop's r.eumenical letter both spoke about the af1'ordability of ndur.ation and iL<> availability to all pnopln. Currnntly, the University of Notre Dam1~ does not mnet this standard,'' ()'Donoghue said. 
"The history has always been that we were founded as a blue collar working sehool." he con­tinued. "We arc not being true to our Catholic mission and his­torical mission." 
()'Donaghue noted that such a move would make Notre Dame the first school in U.S. News and World Heport's top­20 to take such a strong action against spiraling tuition, and that the impact on academic success would be palpablr.. 
"The students who work f10 hours a wcnk to maintain mem­bPrship in this university could spend more time studying and loss time being employees,'' said ()'Donoghue. 
"It would help to alleviatn problems on campus. but also problems off campus," he said. "People will start to see a school that cams about the ris­ing cost of tuition." 
()'Donoghue made rr.ferencP to the $3:~.9 million budget sur­plus reportod by the Univnrsity to the Board of Trustees, as well as the fact that the Generations campaign is run­ning well alwad of scheduh 
Parliamentarian Tim K<~ller was first to applaud thr. eon­cept. 
"I think it's a novel idea," he said. "Hathor than increasing the number of scholarships, dccreaso the overall cost. It accomplishes the same end, only for morn people." 
Following discussion. O'Donoghue acknowledged the long road ahead of his commit­tee. 
"Wo n~alizn there's lots of work to be done on this," he said. "I think that based on what we've heard ltodayl. we'll sit down with the Budget Oflico and look at the hard data." 
The Undergraduate Financn CommittPe also reported that tlwy had investigatnd thoso stu­dPnL<> who are financ:ially inde­pendP n t oJ' their pan~ n ts or guardians and thr. problems which sometimes present them­sr.lves wlwn they snnk financial aid. 
"When the students go into I'Pview, they do not havE~ the option of seeing their parents' records. whic:h are privatP," O'Donaghuo said. 
Ava Prnadwr, assistant dean of thn Colleg<~ of Arts and Lntters, added that tho same policy is implemnnted at thP graduate level with regard to institutional finandal aid. 
In other CLC nows: 

• Members discussed the recent controversy regarding student b11havior during foot­ball games. 
A.J. Boyd. Student Union Consultant for the Constitution, began discussion on the subject 
see CLC I page 4 

.----------­~ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Riddle Me That With a Vengeance 
Scenario: There is no scenario. Not today, at least. That is, not until we've got one thing straight. 
It's been exactly one week since the article that 'launched a thousand letters' was pub­lished. That column 
Robet Pazornik 
was 532 words long. I counted. Actually, the Copy Editor computer counted, but I hit the key that made it count. 
The responses which have been published in The Observer since then, both those expressing adulation or criticism of that article, have summed approximately 5,000 words. 
This has got to stop. 
As much as I would love to carry out a nine­month dialogue concerning the state of art and art-related crap on this campus, this must end somewhere. Because there are so many more things of note to complain about, and it's just time to move on. 
So let me end it here. 
Elder Barrett the third, if you will, and hey, even if you won't-thank you for pointing out my callow nature and for using several large words that we all had to look up in the dictio­nary. Your voluminous vocabulary voraciously vanquishes my vernacular. 
I appreciate your daily art lessons, elder Barrett, and you have lead me to reach the conclusion that even the most interesting aspects of the art world can be made mind­numbingly, incomprehensibly dull. 
As per your well-versed criticism, I've taken into consideration your claims regarding the misunderstanding and misrepresentation and such of campus art, so I decided to read a book about campus art over the weekend, theoreti­cally, at least. And I can't tell you how much my opinions have changed. 
Lordy, Lordy, I have seen the light. 
After much study and re-analysis of the art on our campus, I have come to the conclusion that my former conclusions were flawed. No, no. Campus art is not crap. Rather, it's post­modern. neo-classical, synthetic cubist crap. Wait, except for that 20-foot aluminum high­chair thing. That's still a lightning rod. 
Mr. Barrett III, regardless of your feelings toward me, I applaud your courage for stand­ing up to the neophytes and mindless drones who senselessly criticize the crap you have worked so assiduously to defend. I appreciate your many quotes of people I have never heard of, nor ever care to hear of again, in defense of your argument. You have proven once and for all that art majors know more about art than anybody else, mcluding, dare I say it, myself. 
I realize that there is more to art than "(put your favorite criticism here)," but frankly, I feel that the average Joes, even those idiots who haven't majored in art, are fully qualified to judge art based on their own values and inter­pretations. Because hey, if art majors are the only ones who can fully appreciate the essence of campus art in the true respect it was meant to be appreciated, then why don't we just throw all the art pieces in the basement of the art building so that they will never be unduly judged by an uneducated imbecile like myself ever a&am. 
That s not the way it should be. 
Mr. Barrett: my summation, if you will. Your argument is flawed, and I am not as old as you, so I guess it all evens out. I apologize for this gratuitous diatribe, but I will not apologize for my opinions. 
But I do regret one thing. I really wanted to end all of this with a touch of dignity by taking the high ground, you know, go out with some class. This campus, however, is no place for class (Right Reason, you've taught me well). 
Sometimes, in order to get a point across, Mr. Barrett, you must utilize another kind of art form, one which, despite your years of study far surpassing mine, I'm not sure you've ever heard of. 
Satire. 
Good day. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAv'S STAFF 
News Scene Tim Logan Michelle Barton Roberr Pazornik Graphics Man Turner 
Scott Hardy 
Sports 

Production 
Kathleen Lopez 

Kerry Smith 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Eduardo Llull 

JeffHsu 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
--------~---­
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 10,-1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Riots and rampage follow Ohio State football loss 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Arter the Buckeyes' loss on Saturday, some took out their frustra­tion by doing some heavy drinking. Some decided to cause a few fires. These behaviors helped contribute to a reported 48 arrests. 
Police could not confirm the num­ber of arrests, but ona whole, the weekend was not as bad as past home football weekends, said Sgt. Earl Smith, spokesmanfor the Columbus Division of Police. 
"Anytime there's a home football game, we have officers on standby," Smith said. He said there were sever­al fires set in trash dumpsters and a fight was broken up on East 9th Avenue and High Street. 
The increase in police presence on High Street was visible, with both police cars and bike officers constant­ly seen in both directions. 
More than one local news station 

• MICHIGAN STATE UI\!!VERSITY Alcohol to blame in student death 
EAST LANSING. Mich. 
Alcohol was deemed the cause of the death of MSU stu­dent Bradley McCue, leading local police and university officials to re-examine attitudes toward drinking at MSU. In a press conference Friday, Ingham County Medical Examiner Dean Sienko said an autopsy revealed McCue died from acute alcohol poisoning. McCue's blood alcohol level was .44 percent, which Sienko said is "a lethal dose" of alcohol. The report is consistent with witness state­ments that McCue drank 24 shots in less than two hours. Sienko said although he couldn't pinpoint an exact time of death, McCue was in "irreversible trouble if not dead," by sometime between 3 a.m. and 4 a.m. East Lansing police Capt. Louis Muhn, who was also at the press conference, said the drinking occurred sometime after midnight. McCue, a parks and recreation junior, was pronounced dead on arrival at Sparrow Hospital on Thursday, the morning of his 21st birthday. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Venerated visage visits Virginians 
CHARLOTTESVILLE. Va. 
After months of eager anticipation, His Holiness the Dalai Lama addressed a packed Old Cabell Hall Auditorium Friday in the last session of the Nobel Peace Laureates Conference, ciLlling for an end to violence and expressing hope for the future of Chinese-Tibetan rela­tions. The Dalai Lama, a living god to Tibetan Buddhists, stressed the importance of inner peace in his speech. He said people must find peace within themselves before they have the true ability to come to peace withothers. "I think it is very important to look inward," he added. "Caring for others brings inner strength." During the panel discussion portion of the session, the Dalai Lama said he is confident an end to Chineseoccupation of Tibet will come soon. Chinese officials have indicated the possibility that it will begin talks on Tibet's autonomy. "I think things are get­ting better and better," he said. "Human thinking is get­ting more open," he added. 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 10.
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high tern eratures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Tuesdc?-Y 
l 
Wednesday 
Thurshay 
Friday 
Satu.i:day 
<, ,.,.. ... 
Presrure:
}. ····.,; =.J'' 
® © 


High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Akron 42 35 Duluth 35 22 Los Angeles 82 65
4,~,~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 
Anaheim 79 68 Guam 92 83 Nantucket 43 37 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloud' Cloudy 
Anchorage 17 -2 Huntingtn.Bch. 80 69 Watts 78 68 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Compton 81 70 Jupiter 65 53 Xyzyxx 45 32 

......................... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 


Dumpsters, couches and other objects were set on fire in the campus area. Karolyn Ball, a senior majoring in social work, was on the phone jok­ing with a friendabout angry fans burning couches when neighbors set a couch on fire in front of her house on East 18th Avenue. 
The couch burned on the road for about ten minutes before the fire 
• UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA Band members maced, hospitalized 
MORGANTOWN, W.V. 

In the waning moments of the Syracuse-West Virginia 
University football game, the WVU Marching Band pre­
pared to do a post-game show. But a decision was made 
to protect band members from a potentially rambunctious 
crowd by keeping them in their seats. The decision back­
fired. Several band members and post-game celebrants 
were treated at the emergency room after a chemical 
sprayed by West Virginia State Troopers was blown into 
the band section by wind. Witnesses said the police used 
the spray as fans rushed the field and approached a goal 
post while celebrating West Virginia's 35-28 victory. State 
Police Sergeant Gary Gaskins, who coordinates on-field 
security, would not comment on the matter at press time. 
"The mace being used on the people on the field was 
moved into the band section by wind," said John 
Hendricks, director of the Mountaineer Marching Band. 
"Some of our people got it pretty bad." 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Fraternity exonerated in 'roofies' case 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

One fraternity has been vindicated and another is still 
under close scrutiny for allegations that some members 
used the "date-rape drug" Rohypnol. Billy Molasso, MSU 
coordinator for Greek Life. said a fact sheet that will be 
released today by MSU's Media Communications office 
states there was not sufficient information to continue 
investigating the unnamed fraternity. The investigation of 
Psi Upsilon will continue. "(Psi Upsilon) are done with the 
first half of the investigation," Molasso said. "They will 
take the information they've collected to their national 
board early this week." Hohypnol, or "roofies," has a 
sedating effect and causes temporary amnesia in people 
who take it, making it particularly dangerous to those who 
unknowingly swallow the drug. Mark A. Williams, execu­
tive director of Psi Upsilon's international office, said he is 
not sure when his organization will be able to reach any 
conclusions. 
department put it out. 
"I don't see the logic in it," she said. 
Six underage drinkers were arrest­ed following a raid at a party on 141 
E. 13th Ave. around 8:30 p.m. Saturday. The undercover liquor agents also confiscated a keg of beer. 
"Everyone who was arrested was really good," said Ian Coughlin, a senior majoring in management infor­mation systems, who was involved in organizing the party. "A little mad I'm sure." 
Three remaining kegs were moved over to Coughlin's apartment complex on 13th Avenue and Indianola Avenue after police left. 
State Liquor Agents were not avail­able for comment. 
On campus, Ohio State Police reported three arrests of disorderly conduct on Saturday. None of the three were OSU students and all were cited and released. 

~----------~-­
Tuesday, November I 0, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Please Recycle The Observer SMC will host health 
screenings at fair today 

Weather the Holidays •.• 
Start Your '99 Christmas Oub Now! 
Avoid financial storms during the holidays by 
opening a Christmas Club Account today. 
This account features: 
+ 
COMPETITIVE DIVIDENDS 

+ 
NO MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGES +SAVE THRU PAYROLL DEDUCTION 


NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

Ghristmas Glob 
I 2 Convenient Campus Locations-
DOUGLASROADOFACE SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS 
(The Center Building) 
Plus our ATM at the Campus Bookstore 
P~ NOTRE DAME ~-~.-c__u_A-1 
~· FEDERAL CREDIT UNION . .u--. 
For People. Not For Profit. Independent otthe University 
Special to The Observer 
The College will host "Ilr,alth Fair '98" today from 3 p.m. to 7 
p.m. in the Le Mans Hall lobby. Services offered will include blood pressure screr,ning, blood sugar level screr,ning and fat percentage analysis. 
Massage therapists, touch therapists, hair stylists. a nutri­tionist, an emergency room nurse and representatives from the League of Women Voters will be present. Other organizations at the fair will inelude the Women's Care Center. Saint Mary's Career and Counseling Department. Saint Mary's FirstSource Bank, Saint Mary's Travelmore ofl'ice, AIDS Ministries, the American lleart Association, the American Lung Association and the Ameriean Hed Cross. 
The event is open to all nwm­bers of the Saint Mary's commu­nity and is sponson)d by Saint Mary's Nursing Department and llealth Services. 
College of Engineering orientation to be held Thursday 
Special to The Observer 
The College of Engineering will host an orientation Stlssion in the Cushing Auditorium this Thursday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. for freshmen interested in learning more about the pursuit of study in engineering. 
The session is intended to introduce new studenL.:; to the wide range of careers offered by engineering and will give students an opportunity to learn more about the curriculum a.nd to ask any questions they may have. Frank lncropera, dean of the Collogo of Engineering, and several department heads will be present at the session to aid'students in their queries. 
A tour of the College. including several of the laboratories. is also planned. During that time, freshmen will be ablo to see examples of the latest computer-aided design and manufacturing systems. microelectronics, signal/image processing. roboties and other engineering devictlS and applications. They can also hear more about engineering student activities, such as Industry Day, the Mini·Baja and the annual Fisher Hegatta. Food and b<lverages will be served. 
Students who cannot attend but want more information about engineering and the opportunities offered at Notre Dame can visit the College's web site at www.nd.edu/-engineer/eng_home.hlml. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 10, 1998 


Bradley 
continued from page 1 
children as a whole," Bradley said, noting that in most munici­palities non-progressive proper­ty taxes fund education. Problem arise when some dis­tricts become richer than others and hoard excess funds while others are lacking, he said. Bradley went on to say that we must define the basic education program and guarantee that all schools enjoy the funding need­ed to attain that level. 
Bradley took on what he called the Republican Party's definition of family values by identifying a social obligation to provide struggling parents with a helping hand. 
"[The topic of] family values has been redefined to cover a broader area than the Republicans have already con­ceived of," Bradley said. 
Instead of being turned off by the problems of single-parent households, poverty, drug use and teenage pregnancy, we 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
by comparing the raucous, dis­repectful behavior of the Ohio State fans two years ago to the actions of certain sections of the student body. 
"I would beg the members of this council to consider an appeal to the higher nature of the students -especially the seniors -to refrain from what is certainly not a tradition in any sort at Notre Dame and has got­ten wildly out of hand," Boyd said. 
"I do believe, given our history with other university bands ... 

need to refocus our attention on the children, he emphasized. 
"A real problem is not enough. Parents make enough money to spend time with their children," he said. "And the fundamental problem is single parenthood." 
On this note, Bradley dispar­aged the welfare reform bill that requires mothers to return to work after two years. 
"It was a short-sighted effort for one main reason -it broke the bond between mother and child," said Bradley. 
As a possible solution, Bradley mentioned the idea of fifteen­month houses where single teenage mothers can live and learn how to take care of their children. Incentives for mar­riage and disincentives for hav­ing more children are also important, Bradley said. 
Also, Bradley emphasized the father's responsibility in parent­ing. One of his ideas is the use of DNA testing to officially identify birth fathers and force unwilling ones to make child support pay­ments either by placing leans on wages or by intercepting tax refunds. 
"We need to make sure that 
that our respect and support of our own student band has been less than perfect. The student body owes the band an apology," said Father David Scheidler, rec­tor of St. Edward's Hall. 
O'Donoghue asked whether the university was considering disciplinary action that would affect the entire student body, such as switching to a general admission format for students. 
"If students don't permit it to happen, there's no need for the university to respond ... I believe the students aren't going to let it continue. I have a lot of faith in our students," Kirk said, adding that should this sort of behavior continue, the university would swiftly fathers know it's not a one night or couple-of-months process. It's a commitment of at least 18 years," Bradley said. "[We should not] allow fathers to slip out of responsibility." 
Bradley stated that the media play an integral role in saving the children. Right now, he said, the media act irresponsibly by showing excess violence and fewer public service announce­ments on television. 
Drugs are a large problem facing our children today, he said, noting that we can't stop supply, but we can stop the demand through massive educa­tion. 
Bradley also mentioned the increased presence of gangs in America and the lure of mem­bership to the nation's youth. 
"Gangs are like teams," stated Bradley. Children long for an identity and when they do not have a strong family to turn to, they look elsewhere," he said, proposing that after-school and community activities provide more positive experiences. 
Derek Betcher contributed to this report. 
put an end to it. "It's easy to end." 
"The football ticket office has the power to blacklist you for life. They can remove you from the alumni [ticket] list," Scheidler said. 
• The council also discussed the reaction from Patricia O'Hara, assistant vice-presi­dent of student affairs, to the resolutions passed at the pre­vious meeting. 
"Social space on campus [is] an important priority, and Patty O'Hara, in this letter, is very positive behind this and will take great steps when nec­essary to include students' input," said Keenan senator Matt Mamak. 
Got News? Fill us in at 1-5323 

Now Open! 

Monday-Thursday 7am-11pm Friday-Saturday 7am-12 Sunday 9am-10pm 
1025 South Bend Avenue (Corner of Eddy & So. Bend Ave.) South Bend, Indiana 46617 (219)287-6966 
COLLEGE OF 8 INISTRATION 
SERIES 

. ·t"1dr\R;tu···.•••····M; ·;·C·O··• •·•~'E····G). E OF
UD uu .. ···· ... ' .·.·.·~·~; 

SPONSORED Bv: 
Notre Dame Center for Ethics tllld Religious 


SRB 
Values ill Business Students lor Responsible Business 



Tuesday, November 10, 1998, COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Clinton again faces scrutiny 
Wi\S111NC;T<)N 
In lngal wons on a nnw front, l'rl•sidPnt Clinton was quPstionnd by FBI agnnls and .luslicP ))ppartmPnt lawynrs Monday in an invnstigation of wlwtlwr lw lwnnlitl'(( ill!•gally from I>PIIliHTatir Party advPrt.isPmnnts during tlw I 1) 1)(, rampaign. Tlw qtwst.ioning l'.anu• in a 1)()-day in q u i r y lw gun in Snp t P m b n r to dPLPrmin<• if an indt•pPmiPnt. counsnl should lw appointl'd to ronduct a full inVPstigat.ion. ,\ttornny (;PnPral .huwt Beno has until llPI'. 7 to dPcidn whi'IIH•r to ask a spPc.ial thi'PI'-judgP pai!I'I to nanw a spnrial prosl't'Utor. If llnno pr<H'I'Pds, Clinton would bt~ tlw first prnsidnnt. 
t.o lw invnstigatPd by two indnpPndPnt. coun­SPls. Clinton has dnniPd any wrongdoing. 
Dalai Lama visits U.S. 

Wi\SIIINC;T<>N 
Tlw Dalai l.ama said Monday that. Tilwtans in his llimalayan honwland a.rl' "victims of human rights violations" as Chiili'SI' oiTI'ials jail monks and nuns for publicly snnking mon• frPPdom. Tlw Buddhist lnadPr. who llPd Tihnt in I <J51J to nsca1w C:hinnsn ruin, said human rights advocatPs must nnvnr givn up tlwir fight against abusn. "Thnrn's a Tibntan say­ing, 'Ni1w linws failurn, ninn tinu~s niTort,"' the Dalai l.ama said. spoaking at an awards enmmony for four Colombian human rights aetivists. The Buddhist lnadnr. who is sr.hml­uiPd to visit thn Wh ill~ llousn on TuPsday. dnlivnn~d tlw knynotP addross at t.hP 15th annual Holwrt F. K<•nnody !Iuman Hights /\ward 1:nrnmony at Gnorgntown Univnrsity. During his Washington stay. tlw Dalai l.ama is eontmnplating making some conciliatory remarks to satisfy an overturn by China's President .Jiang Zemin in hopes of rnopnning autonomy talks for Tibet with lkijing. 
U.S. signs nuclear accords 
GENEVA 
Nogotiators from tho United Stales and countries from the former Sovil't Union signed nnw accords Monday to nnsurn that medium-range nudnar weapons stay out of their arsnnals. Tl111 accords arn follow-ups to the Intermediate Hangtl Nuclear Forr.ns troaty that former President Heagan signnd with Mikhail Gorbachov at the Whito llousn in Docombor!IJX7. Sinen then the 2.700 modi­um-and short-range missiles covnn~d by the INF aecord havo been destroyed. Tho new agrnomnnts mak1~ amnndments to inspoction procoduros nnedod to ensure that all sides 
stick to tlw accord. Thn United States eontin­U<~s to inspect a Hussian plant in Votkinsk whoro modium-rango missilos usnd lo bn pro­ducml. Tlw plant is now usod to build longnr­rangn singln-warhnad missiles and commer­cial satollitn laundwrs. 
• CENTRAL AMERICA 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
SAN SALVADOH 
Ovnrwhelmed by disaster, grim­facnd Contra! American leaders gath­erml Monday to appeal for more aid in recovering from Hurricane Mitch even as a growing army of rescue workers struggled to holp hundreds of thousands of victims. 
llonduran President Carlos Flores Faeusse called his country's $4.2 bil­lion debt "unpayable" after one of the worst natural disasters of this century in the 1\moric.as. 
"In 72 hours, we lost what we had built, little by little, in 50 years," he told a news conference following the summit. 
Somo European leaders already were proposing to help, echoing a plan made last week by former President Jimmy Carter. French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin on Monday called for a moratorium on debt payments owed by countries hit by Mitch. 
llonduran ambassador to the United States Edgardo Dumas Hod riguez said the region "urgently nends a massive aid program" simi­

lar to the Marshall Plan that helped Europe recover from World War II. 
Hundreds of people swarmed around three U.S. Army Chinook helicopters that delivered 32,000 pounds of food and medicines Monday to a soccer field in Yoro, about 80 miles north of Tegucigalpa. 
Many areas were still receiving 
will need food for the next month, 
U.N. World Food Program represnn­tative Giuseppi Lubatti estimated. 
And in Washington, U.S. Army Secretary Louis Caldera said the army is considering altering the tasks of some 3,000 National Guard soldiers who had been scheduled to travel to Honduras between January 
'IN 72 HOURS, WE LOST WHAT WE HAD BUILT, UTILE BY UTILE, IN 50 YEARS.' 
CARLOS FWRES FACUSSE PRESIDENT OF HONDURAS 
and June. lie said the troops could be used to help rebuild infrastructure. 
President Flores Facusse of Honduras, Arnoldo Aleman of Nicaragua, Armando Calderon Sol of El Salvador and Miguel Angel Hodriguez of Costa Hica met at San Salvador's interna­tiona! airport for a quick sum­
mit. Guatemalan Foreign Minister Eduardo Stein also 

their first aid, more than a week after the storm disappeared. 
Former President George Bush, visiting the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa, said Sunday that aid might be needed for years to come. "The devastation is appalling," he said. 
In Honduras alone, 700,000 people attended the meeting. There was none of the jovial backslapping cus­tomary at regional summits as most of the leaders walked grimly past reporters into their session. 
The presidents were trying to coor­dinate often-chaotic relief efforts and to plan long-term priorities-such as restoring destroyed roads. 
CIA warns of Iraq danger 
ASSOCIATED PRESS ing Iraq, a U.S. intelligence developed options for him recent weeks is we've seen official said Monday that that include air strikes. the eoalescing and the WASHINGTON the assessment reflects the A concern that could rule clarity of the entire world 
Iraq could rebuild its agency's current thi.nJdng. out strikes is that Iraq that Iraq is in noncompli­chemical and biological Administration officials might respond by perma· ance, that this current arsenals if international are debating whether con· nently banning the Interna­problem is Iraq's fault," arms inspections ceased, tinued inspections or an tional search for illegal Rubin said. the CIA said Monday as the open-ended threat of mili­chemical and biological Saudi and Egyptian offi­
S&P 500: Composite Clinton administration pre­tary force can root out weapons. cials have urged the United 1130.20 Volume: pared options on the latest Iraq's suspected secret At the State Departnumt, States and the internation­-10.81 721,000,000
8897.96 standoff. weapons cache. Ten days spokesman James Rubin al community to pursue VOLUME LEADERS fmq has "thtl capability ago, Saddam Hussein sought to dispel sugges­diplomatic rather than mil­,,.,..,. to quickly resurrect declared a halt to coopera· tions that the United States itary solutions to the stand­
) CIA'"U5

T''''' • "1Wf9' puc• 
DELL COMPllTEfl DELL 1"5,04 +]. 1125 b9. 00 weapons of mass destruc· tion with the U.N, Special was alone in its effort to off. 
MICROSOFT CORP MSF'I' +1. 26 +1.3750 110.6P.75 IOMEGA CORP !OM 8.00
-1.91 -0. 6A75 lion production absent U~N. Commission that searches isolate and punish Iraq for Once again, it appeared 
EXCITE INC XC IT tlB, 75 t7. 5000 47 '5 CITIGROUP INC CCI 411. R75 .
-2.71 -1.2500 sanctions," the CIA report­for chemical and bi()logical· noncompliance with that only Britain was ready 
COMPAQ COMPUTER +1. 37 ... a.4375 1::!. 4315
CPO international arms inspec­to join the United States in
INTEL CORP INTC •0. 59 .. 0.5625 ed to lawmakers. Although weapons. ..·.·.
96' 00 ClSCO SYSTEMS csco -0.65 -0.4375 67.00 
NETSCAPE COMM +14 .lA t-3. 7500 29.125 the report predates the lat­President Clinton's tors. a threat of force against
NSCP ORACLE CORP +1. 19 +-0.3150 31. A125
ORCL est flurry of activity involv-
Iraq. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 10, 1998 
meet their financial needs from arts center "the last major con­In other Faculty Senate News: bationary status for providing inside the University," Malloy struction project that has been •Investigation of the Women's pro-choice abortion literature
Malloy 
said. He also admitted the hanging over the head of this Resource Center (WHC) proba­to inquiring students. 
continued from page 1 
cerned departments are exam­ining: 
1) What is the level of acade­mic aspiration at Notre Dame? 
2) What about the specific religious identity of Notre Dame? 
3) How can Notre Dame best identify its peer institutions? 
4) What kinds of models and affiliations can University offi­cers imag­ine? What are the aca­tradeoff between endowment appreciation and immediate spending, but cited the success of the Generations fundraising campaign as a cause for opti­mism. 
"Barring major catastrophe. we can go over the top ahead of time." Malloy reported. 
The persistent problem of alcohol abuse was another topic that drew Malloy's remarks. He cited several studies warning of' 
'WE HAVE
demic rami­
BEEN
fications of ath.letic 
LOSING TOO agree­
MANY STUDENTS. 
ments? 
5) What is 
••• BECAUSE the future 
WE'VE BEEN 
of intercol­legiate ath-UNABLE TO MEET letics? 
THIER FINANCIAL NEEDS FROM 
6) What is the role INSIDE THE UNIVERSITY.' 
television contracts 
new prob­lems, one identifying a violent new manifesta­tion of alco­hol abuse -campus riots to sup­p o r t increased alcohol privileges, seen recent­ly at Michigan S t a t e administration." 

Malloy also discussed plans for a $125 million project to develop a science teaching facility and retrofit Nieuwland Hall. 
"We have to wait until our intensive efforts at fundraising are successful," Malloy said. 

tion issue again dominated dis­cussion for the senate's Student Affairs Committee. 
The committee primarily dis­cussed the string of events that occurred in May 1998 which culminated with the Office of Student Activities' decision to place the WHC on two-year pro­

"There are huge issues of procedural fairness here," said committee chair Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. It's not at all clear in du Lac if clubs are to be handled differently in disci­plinary procedures than indi­viduals." 


PUBLIC LECTURE 
"CIVIC ENGAGEMENT IN AMERICAN DEMOCRACY'' 
THEDASKOCPOL 
Professor of Government and Sociology at Harvard University · 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1998 
7:30 PM 

HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENTS OF SOCIOLOGY AND GOVERNMENT AND THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE 
FATHEREDWARDMALLOY University
will play? 
7) What is UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT and Penn 
the percep­tion of our alumni and major benefactors of the move? 
Malloy noted that the Big Ten first approached Notre Dame with the possibility of member­ship, and had originally hoped for a private discussion. 
"The Big Ten made an over­ture to our Athletic Department and indicated they wanted to move forward with a 12th team," Malloy told the senate. "It was intended not to be a public discussion." 
The topic of financial issues was the first area Malloy chose to address in his remarks to the senate. The tie between finan­cial aid and budgetary elements such as tuition growth. endow­ment growth, spending and fundraising was examined by the speaker. 
"We have long been losing too many students, historically because we've been unable to 
S t a t e University. Another study that concerned Malloy linked exces­sive alcohol use with decreased academic performance. 
He listed improved alcohol education, increased alterna­tives to drinking and a change in student culture as the keys to higher education's ongoing struggle to address the dilemma of alcohol abuse. 
"I think we're doing here all of the things that I know of that universities are trying any­where to combat alcohol abuse," Malloy said. "We can point to some areas of progress, but it's not clear to me that there's any one thing we can do to turn this thing around overnight." 
Malloy also reported on the University's construction plans, which are nearing the end of a decade of heavy-activity. He called the planned performing 

Oel!iret£t/rj TkBtf~t Pizza.! 
~[})® ®0®®lk lJ[!]®~c!lGl~gg 
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 6:00 8c 7:30, 11:00-12:30 the price of your 
the price of your 
21arge 1

large 1 topping 
topping pizzas 
pizza 
is the time you call.

is the time you call. 
*Plus tax
*Plus tax 

ND store Saint Mary's/ 271-1177 North Village Mall 
Drive-In and Delivery 
271-PAPA

Visa/Mastercard Accepted 

_, ------_,_ -_.. _.__._.._ i. ...r -·---~-•-i.. Jl': _ ...... .z. -·-t.....!r .J:-_.:: ---~,.. _r _ __._._ ... -_,..._ J-*-'t---.I.. .if_.... _ 

HAIR MODELS NEEDED For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information. 289-5080 

Tuesday, November I 0, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Gingrich: I resigned to preserve party unity 
Sai:n1: 1\lla.ry's College N'ot:re I>a.:r:n.e 
26TH ANNUAL 
LONDON SUMMER 
PROGRAM 
New speaker knows the ropes 
Courses offered in History, Education, Biology, Philosophy and International Business. 
For further information contact: 
AssociJted Press 
WASIIINCTON 

1\dlnctivc~ and partisan by turns. llousn Spnaknr Nc~wt (;ingridl said Monday night he decided to rntinl ratlwr than light for a rww lc·rm last wenk bc~rauscl his contimwd presnncn would havP bnconw an "nxrusn f'or divisivnrwss and factional­ism" insidl' HPpubliran ranks. 
"As I lt>ave public ofl1cn and nljoifl tlw ranks of' active citi­zenship. tlw venue rhangns and tlw 1:ause lives on," said the man who ov1•r·saw a c;op majority dc•dirated to lnss gov­Prnnwnt and lowPr taxes. 
(;ingrirh's spet>rh bt>fOfll c;oi'AC. a I!Ppuhliran organiza­tion lw onrP hPadPd, markt>d 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and 

along flight home, the plane goeRdoWn, lmt her trip iR juRt beginning 
Theatre presents 

Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, November 18  7:30p.m.  
Thursday, November 19  7:30p.m.  
Friday, November 20  7:30p.m.  
Saturday, November 21  7:30p.m.  
Sunday, November 22  2:30p.m.  

Playing atWashington Hall 
Reserved Seats -$9 Senior Citizens -$8 All Students -$6 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student CenterTicket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
his first c~xtendnd public appnarancn since a stunning decision last Friday to give up his high ol'l'icn and leavn Congrnss aftnr 20 ynars. 
lin of'f'nred no hint of his futun~ political plans. 
Tlw Cnorgian was received warmly by the audiencr. of about 250. and got a rousing ovation when lw displayed his personal copy of thn "Contract With Anwrica." the campaign manifesto that Hnpublicans rodn to their landslidn elnr.tion victory in l lJlJ4. "Again and again. c~almly systnmatically, wn kc)pt our word." hn said of tlw nwolution hn onee led. 
(;ingrich also usnd his spench to tic.k oiT accomplishnwnts of tlw last four years-welfare legislation. overhaul of and within 72 hours. Gingrich Medicare, expanded medical had withdrawn, signaling the researc~h among them. end of a tumultuous reign as 
"Let me say, without apology. the first GOP spoaker or the that as speaker I sought to House in 40 years. aggressively lead toward our Ilis remarks had a nostalgic goals and our vision. We never tone at times. a big At other majority, points. but we 
though. stood for Gingrich'LET ME SAY,
big ideas." soundedWITHOUT
he said. very much "And that APOLOGY, THAT like a man is what preparingAS SPEAKER I
made us to lead the diiTnrent." SOUGHT TO Hepublican­Listening c:ontrolled
AGGRESSIVELY 
in the audi­Congress
LEAD TOWARD OUR GOALS AND 
ence was into yet Hep. Bob another
OUR VISION.' Livingston. struggle t h e w i t h Louisiana NEWT GtNG///C/1 Preside n t Hepublican FOIIM!i/1 SPEAKZ.:/1 OF 71/E /lOUSE Clinton. 
who ehal­1 e n g e d Gingrieh for the speakership on Friday, and then became the over­whelming favorite to succeed him after the Georgian decided to retire. 
"The next speaker of the House." Gingrich ealled Livingston. and urged all Hepublicans to work with him to prevent a political victory in 2000 by Vice President AI Gore and congressional Democrats. 
Gingrich deeidBd to give up his powerful post last week after his party suffered unex­peeted setbacks in the midterm elections. Only hours after he had assured the rank-and-file that Hepublicans would gain as many as 30 llouse seats, the voters decided otherwise. lnstoad. the GOP lost live seats. the first time since 1934 that the party in power in the White llouse has gained seats in the House at midterm. 
Stunned Hepublicans demanded a leadership change. and within 72 hours, Gingrich had withdrawn. signaling the 
lie called on the pres­ident to 

propose a tax cut, and to work with Republicans to preserve Social Security. "This is a great historic opportunity. I hope the president will not !linch from joining with Republicans," he said. 
He excoriated trial lawyers ­one of the leading villains in the GOP political firmament ­aceusing them without offering any specific evidence of prepar­ing to make life miserable for those attempting to solve the year 2000 computer problems. 
Gingrich. frequently men­tioned as a potential presiden­tial candidate in 2000, did not discuss his future plans at length in his remarks. "Public office is not the same as publie 
service.  There  are  many  
avenues  for publie lif e," he  
said.  

Earlier, Gingrich returned to the Capitol for the first time since last week's election. lie was greeted by a dutch of aides who cheered his entrance, and shook hands with well-wishers who cheornd his nntraneo. and shook hands with wrdl-wislwrs before nntnring the building and heading for his ofliee. 
Gingrich once headed c;opAC. which he usnd to train c;op candidatns for public: of'!iee. and few in thn audionce expressnd disappointnwnt with him. 
"It was what I expected or Newt Gingrich. bning the loader that he is. to know when it was time for him to go," said John Burke of Milwaukee. "I don't reel like tlwrn's any negativism toward him. It's healthy l'or a party to do what it has to do to maintain its majority." 
And keeping the majority ­as slim as it is -was the group's primary l'oeus. · Hnpublicans !'ailed to gain any Senato seats in last week's elec­tion and they lost five seats in the !louse, whittling thnir majority to 223-211. with onn indepondnnt who usually votns Dnmocratie. But c;oPAC mem­bers said Gingrich could be a key to inspiring Hepublicans to boost support in the next elec­tion. 
"This c~ould unleash him in that he might now be able to say more and do more." said 
0. E. Philpot of Nashville. Tenn. "Many of us feel that he may be more of a resource when you take him out of day-to-day micromana.gement and let him do some long-range planning." 
Alton O'Neil of Palm Beach, Fla.. said he doesn't expect changes in !louse leadership to affect GOPAC significantly. 
Despite the group's strong affiliation with the speaker, ho said, "This is not a Newt Gingrich organization." 
"The organization is dedicat­ed to the advancement of Hepublican politieal candidates at the grass-roots level, at state houses-and that's what we'ro going to do,'' O'Neil said. 
Associated Pre$5 
iii WASHINGTON 
His critics call him a master of pork-barrel spending who has shunned some of the con­servative causes at the heart of the Republican Party. His allies say he is a deal-maker who as chairman of the House Appropriations Committee has learned how to make laws. 
But both sides a.gree that Rep. Bob Livingston, who seems certain to beeome speaker of the House next .January, is a man who understands how Congress works and what makes law­makers tick, and is not bash­ful about using power. 
After a near-disastrous election campaign that saw Republicans nearly lose their House majority. a leader who can frame an agenda and transform bills into law is exactly what many Republicans say they want. And many of them think they have found just that in Livingston, the 55-year-old former New Orleans prosecu­tor who earlier this year was weary after his two decades in Congress and came within a hah: of beginning a lucra­tivecareer as a consultant. 
·"He has shown that under fire, he is able to broker deals. He can craft a bill that gets through the llouse, Senate and gets signed into law," said Rep. Mike Forbes, R-N.Y., a Livingston support­er. 
The gangly 6-foot-4-inch Livingston, known for an amiable manner but eruptive temper that can recede just as quiekly, was raised from obscurity four years ago by his friend Newt Gingrich. the Georgia Republican he will replace as speaker. 
After the GOP won House control in the 1994 eh~etions, Gingrich anointed Livingston chairman of the Appropriations panel because he considered him mot·e like­ly than more senior lawmak­ers to follow the Hepublican plan to eut federal spending. 
Waving a bowie knife at his first committee meeting as chairman to underline the slashes to eome, Livingston did lead the way to billions of dollars in savings in the llrst few months of' 1995. But his years heading the panel haven't always been easy. 
Later in 1995, he became enraged when freshman Rep. Mark Neumann, H-Wis., opposed the committee's mil­itary spending bill. With Gingrich's approval. he axed Neumann from the powerful national security subcommit­tee that had produced the bill. When Neumann's fellow freshmen rebelled, Gingrich intervened again. giving Neumann a seat on the Budget Committee. 
MAY 19TH -JUNE 18TH, 1999 
t>rofel!~nr llavirl Shlfancic Professor Tom Parisi :'\4 Madeleva llall, Room 347 37 Madeleva Hall, Room 152 Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 (219) 284-4529 dstefancla)saintmarys.edu tparisi(a)saintmarys.edu 
Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4716 

VIEWPOINT 

• THE BELLE OF SA!NT MARY's 

Do You Remember NKOTB? Then You Must Be Old 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'would it not be true 
to say that North 

Americans prefer to use 
reality rather than to know 
it?' 
-Octavio Paz 


page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ....................... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER...... . .... Bryan Lutz VIEWPOINT EDITOR ............. Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER.... ..Brett Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER ........................ Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHIC.S EDITOR .•............................. Pere Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published hy rhe srudents of rhe University ofNorrc Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It do~ not necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhc administration ofeither insrirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhc: Ediwr·in·Chicf. Managing E.diror, Assisram Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vic:ws of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and w all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rh rough lc:trcrs i~ encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Monaging Editor/Assistant ME 63I-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phoro 63I-5323 Systems 63 I-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 63 I -530.> Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/Generallnformation 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
JOUN,[{)YOUWAN[ C~OCOutrE OR C\NNAIWJN \~ 
'{OUR 
CAWUCC\NOf.. 

Last week in my "U.S. Presidency" course we watched a tape of Ronald Reagan's First Inaugural Address. Hon, the dear man. was having a good hair day. Nancy looked smashing. Bush's face was Pre-Quayle and thus comparatively wrinkle-free. And halfway through the speech it occurred to me that at the time it was delivered, the freshmen in the room WEREN'T EVEN EMBRYOS YET. 
Mary Beth Ellis 

And I laid my head upon my formerly jelly bracelet-covered arm and realized: arnold. 
The faet that I still contend with zits on a regular basis does not negate the reality that one of the children whom I used to baby-sit will begin Driver's Ed next month. I'm old. 
There are certain virtues, however, to being old. You acquire a particular kind of wisdom. You gaze back upon the vast expanse of your life and certain aspects of it drift into a unique perspective that leads you to discover that you acted, in your youth. like a complete and total dork. For instance, it has occurred to me that: 
-The New Kids on the Block were not, perhaps, the musical geniuses I once per­ceived them to be. 
Here wern five young men, two-fifths of whom had hair longer than mine, whose Christmas album (of COURSE they had a Christmas album) included the heart­warming holiday standard, "Have a Funky Funky X-Mas." Now currently employed at a Wai-Mart near you, the New Kids rocketed to stardom on the fol­lowing lyric: 
"Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh! Oh-oh-oh-oh! Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh! THE RIGHT STUFF!" 
This is not to say, however, that the New Kids did not devote themselves to artistic growth throughout their stellar three-year reign on the cover of that jour­nalistic masterpiece, "Bop." In the final months before they bowed off to that big Officially Liscenced Product in the Sky, the New Kids released the album "Step By Step," in which they participated in admirable conscious­ness-raising by demanding of the authoritar­ian class: 
"How could you play me like a champ, a tramp, a cramp 
Girl you did me worse than a food stamp." 
To the New Kid's credit, this courageous musi­cal stance has deeply affected the way I con­duct my adulthood interper­sonal relationships. 
"One of the things I love about Mary Beth," my friends are always saying, "is that she never does me worse than a food stamp." 
-Upon further review, poofing my bangs to heights where they required flashing airplane warning lights was not particularly flattering. 
Never was this more apparent to me than last month, when I helped OJ an 80's music event for a campus radio station. Spinning the greatest hits of Richard Marx, however -both of them -meant that I had to dress the part. This entailed entering into major curling iron negotia­tions with my hair, which, in a lit of self­defense, adamantly forbade me from poofingit. 

"You and I have already discussed this issue," said my bangs as they stubbornly refused to tease skyward. 
"We have BEEN through this. We agreed this is not a good thing. PUT DOWN THE PICK AND NO ONE WILL GET HURT." 
-In retrospect, smelling like Debbie Gibson was less than alluring. Once, long ago, I received for 
Christmas a tiny spray bottle. 
Inside this bottle was 
a neon pink fluid, and floating within this fluid 

was a plastic flu­orescent lightning bolt. This lluid was: Debbie Gibson's "Electric Youth" Perfume. Miss Gibson, for those of 
you who are currently $15 richer than the person who purchased this for me, was a musical entertainer whose work approached the stellar quality of, but was not quite as exquisite as, that of of the New Kids on the Block's. The Gibson scent "Electric Youth" was inspired by the Gibson song "Electric Youth," which announced that the teenagers of America were, quote, "Zappin' it to ya." 
If my rapidly aging olfactory senses serve me correctly, if both Miss Gibson's song and scent accurately reflected my generation, we zapped it to ya smelling like inexpensive whores. The overpower­ing odor of "Electric Youth" could bn detected from several miles away and is quite possibly responsible for the greatest bulk of expansion in the ozone layer. 
-It seems that arraying ourselves entirely in neon may not, stylistically, have been the best way to go. 
I am told that the top career route for the Class of '99 is geriatrics-training ourselves to care for the even-older-than­WE-are baby boomers. I predict that the big-money field for our children will be optometry, specifically, cornea replace­ment surgery. It will be a necessary part of life for our generation after so many years of exposure to fluorescent clothing. I myself at one time proudly owned a wardrobe that enabled me to impersonate the following: 
-The sun 
-Cyndi Lauper's hair 
-Chernobyl resident 

Our soul consolation in facing rapidly increasing oldness, my fellow aged break­dancers, is that with geezerdom comes the ability to legally purchase alcohol. We can drink ourselves into a state where we can forget that "Webster" ever existed. Come join me for a margarita and a syn­dicated rerun of "Saved By the Bell"­the episod!) in which the irrepressible Zach once again attempts to outwit Mr. Belding. You'll be glad we're nearer to natural death than we ever were bnliJre. 
Mary Beth Ellis is an old, decrepit senior at Saint Mary's College majoring in English writing and political science wilh a minor in U.S. history. She would like to hereby thank her parents for protecting her from her own questionable taste by denying her permission to attend any and all New Kids on the Block concerts. there­by preserving her from everlasting shame once she reached the relative reason of adulthood. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of71ze Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
"li.1esday, November 10, 1998 os~ERVER -----------------------------------------------page9 
• Nor PEACE, sur THE SwoRo • THE PROGRESSIVE STUDENT AlliANCE 
The ''Nasty Feminist Enclave'' Debate Continues 
The "Nasty l.ittl1~ Fnminist Enclave" in La Hesource Center) to publicize their disapproval by Fortunn was nxposml for its abortion/gay/contra-resigning immediately. In keeping with the exam­cnption advocacy last snmester and the "academic pic of Fr. David Garrick, this move will bring frnmlorn" crowd forcefully ================national attention to your
dnf'nndml tlwm. Tlwy claimed cause and might force the that thn Wonwn's Hnsource weak-willed administration to
s Cnntnr had nothing to do with ean wilt under pressure. If you abortion. eiting tlw center's really believe in the right-own statistics as proof. Whon eousness of your beliefs, this that claim was shown to bn a would be the perfect way to
y1•nCk lie. tlw WHC defnnders took up express it. tlw mantln of opposing what Second, I think that we tlwy tl~rrn "cnnsorship." should scrap the tenure sys-
Count nw among thn stu-tern as it currently exists. If a dents of the undnrgraduate population who sup-faculty member desorves to be employed here, port this "censorship." I am tired of hearing ideo-there should be no problem ill' his proving, on an logun profnssors pushing a radical agenda. I am annual basis, his teaching and research valuo to 
tirml of fnminists forcing their support of abortion. homosexual­ity and contraception on this Catholie University. I am tired of profnssors at a Catholic Univnrsity being morn loyal to sncular politkal movenHJnts than to the pastoral mission of the Catholic Church. I dissent from thn eommon orthodoxy that holds 
that all opinions are valid except those that opposn leftism. 
The sdwma for Catholic lligher l(ducation has been laid out in Ex Cordn Ecelnsian. Why hasn't it bn1m irnplenwntnd? God and the 
l'opn havn a plan for the roln of Catholic Universities. God and the Church want young Catholics to 
WE CAN GET WITH THE HOLY FATHER 
AND THE CHURCH OR REJECT THEM. CONTRARY TO THE CLAIMS OF SOME 
SCHOLARS, THERE IS NO "COMMON GROUND" ON THIS MATTER. EITHER WE 
the University and its students. This would have the effect of attracting professors dedicated to real Catholic education, as well as weeding out professors who don't support the Church's ideas on pedagogy. Of course, the downside is that there will be a loss of job security for the faculty who do stay. To compen­
sate, perhaps, we could increase salaries. Instead of wasting money on endless construction 
ACT AS CATHOLICS OR STOP and endowment reinvestment, we could redirect that money to 
CALLING OURSELVES A higher salaries, thereby making 
CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY. employment at Notre Dame more attractive. Over time, we would probably lose faculty both 
usn their mlucation to further the Kingdom of God. good and bad, but we would also keep a lot of ded-This means that universities must encourage stu-icatcd. pious faculty members. Also, there is the dents to have an openness to religious vocation, a hope that more religious vocations will result from willingness to livo in Christian fidelity, and docility this increase in orthodoxy. New priests, brothers 
to the moral teachings 
or the Catholic Church. 
The Catholic 
University's role is to 
preserve this idea of education, not to hindor it. Yes. it is true; my "cohorts" and I want to force this on the University or Notrn 
DaNme,. J) t 
o1re arne c1oes no live up to this vision. There was a student group hen~ handing out referrals to abortion clinics under the guise of a University spon­sornd group. There is anothnr student group namt~d tho "PSA" which is dedicated to turning Notrn Dame into a cesspool or secular Marxist depravity. We havn a corps of profes­
sors who moan endless­
ly about the neod for "opnn inquiry" on sub­jects such as "Gender Studies," never admit­ting the need for rcli­gion and faith in the lives of their students. lndeod many of the fac­ulty and student body are openly hostile to Church teaching. All of this adds up to a sorry state or affairs. We have a simple choice. We can get with the Holy Father and the Church or reject them. Contrary to the elaims of some scholars. there is no "common ground" on this matter. Either we 
0~> "/
:e:t 
r/)" 
~7 

aet as Catholics or stop calling ourselves a Catholic University. 
and nuns are always a J//"/ great source of 
•C(!,f..\PLA-I t.JT • 
I I• I:>tPA-~'TMei'fT 4 
f. 
/; '· . 
-----t 

-1 ~-;/'/ ; .:-~ , // 
e.oMPll\4~~1"6 
oF 

Therefore, I'd propose two things. First, I pub­licly challenge all members of the Notre Dame community (professors, administrators, students or staffi who have voiced anger over what they term "censorship" of the "Nasty Little Feminist Endave" (otherwise known as the Women's 
1l,
~/,~~~/·­
ELAI~E 
~ 
• A ~ 
~ 
was at least amusing. 
Professors. 

Of course, this plan is a bit radical; it might not work per­fectly, but it's got to work better than what we have now. It is 
clear that the present tenure syst~m hurts 
our universtty, as it allows Professors to push their secularism on students without fear of termination. 
The predicate to all of this, though, is a revitalization of faith. The reformation of Notre Dame can only be accomplished through Prayer. Only God can save his Mother's University from itself. So, a lot 
more faith, a lot more 
prayer and little perse­verance, and the Church will again reign proudly over Notre Dame, turning it into not only a great center of learning, but also of devotion to God. 
Congratulations to The Observer for the most idiotic in a series of insipid editorials on campus issues. Dean Woo did the right thing, and she should be credited for her courage. A note to the editorial board-stick to your moaning about the south dining hall, it 
Sean Vinck is a sophomore PLS major. His col­umn appears every other Tuesday. 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
It is Time to Make ND Safe for Gay Catholics 
The issue of gay rights is homosexual orientation. one which has torn the Should a Notre Dame stu­campus apart over the year dent who lives a life serving I have been here. In trying Christ ever be denied legal to advocate what the protection from discrimina­Catechism teaches (rein­tion? forced by several bishops), I I beliove that wo should have found direct opposi­all seek to know the truth. I 
tion 

================ 
from 
voices 

the L. Matthew
which I expect­ed in my 

Blancett 
assis­tance 

-----========---­
-the 

voices of devout Catholics. I know in my heart, as some­one who lives and breathes my faith daily, that the truth will be known, and that I have a personal responsibility to advocate 
that truth. 
That voice of truth is anything but a voice am not afraid to do what­ever it takos to search for the roal 
reasons of Father 
Garrick's
decline, 

N
OTRE DAME BELONGS
of oppres­seek that sion. It is a ON LISTS OF GREAT truth out 
to look through ND's bank­book to see where my $30,000 goes each year, nor to seck any other informa­tion that anyone says I can't have for any reason. As educated, growing peopl1~. the truth is always on our side. This love of truth and 
a willing­
ness to 
voice which UNIVERSITIES, NOT ON THE

stands for legal pro­LISTS OF OPPRESSIVE ENVI­tection for 
RONMENTS AS IT STANDS 
the Notre Dame fami­NOW IN GAY MAGAZINES. ly-all of it. It may is the very root of my personal faith as a Christian. Jesus said "You shall know the 
not be easy -it may cost Notre Dame money-but nothing worthwhile is easy. If this campus is not a place for someone who is African­American -it is not a place for Christ. If this campus is not a place for people of a homosexual orientation -it is not a place for Christ. Christ gave his life in serv­ing the oppressed and we are called to act as He did. I believe (as according to the Code of Canon Law) that it is my personal duty, as well as the duty of all Roman Catholics, to do just that­fight oppression. The Code calls us to not only be against oppression, but that "They [the Christian faith­full are also obliged to pro­mote social justice ... In exercising their rights ... must take take account of the common good of the Church and the rights of others as well as their own duties toward others." Without the aid of all of the Christian faithful, the homosexual community may never attain the legal protection that they deserve. 
I challenge every Roman Catholic on this campus to answer the call of Christ ­in this and every moral issue. This is not something to be handled by activists ­it is something which demands action for all who love Christ unconditionally. By not including legal pro­tection for those of a minor­ity homosexual orientation, we are not protecting mem­bers of our own Notre Dame family -those who are of a truth -and the truth will set you free." (John 8:32) The truth is on our side. In the words of Bishop Gumbleton of Detroit, "Absolutely, any Catholic institution or agency must have as its explicit policy a statement prohibiting dis­crimination of any kind." 
I believe that this is a wonderful opportunity for the Academic Council to take the initiative to make Notre Dame a friendly envi­ronment for gay Catholics. Last year's Spirit of Inclusion was the first step on the road to making this dream a reality. Notre Dame belongs on lists of great universities, not on the lists of oppressive envi­ronments as it stands now in gay magazines. 
Next Monday is our opportunity, as a student body, to show the Academic Council that we will not stand for oppression. This is our opportunity to take true action. Join the PSA on Monday as we take a stand to end discrimination. 
L. Matthew Blancett is a sophomore in Morrissey Manor. He is an Electrical Engineering and Music dual degree student. The Progressive Student Alliance run a column every Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Progressive Student Alliance or The Observer. 


--~------·­
page 10------------------OBSERVER ----------Tuesday,November 10, 1998­

students aet to 
A._ tPalt somewftat u,nt'lu,e to cr{9t 
ntt1 to enJol a. d'a.nce--fPtend'fl d' fonna!s e 

A Week Before: "I've got to find a date. I can ask J.Crew boy cause he really knows how to dance. That would be fun. Do I dare ask Chern. boy? I mean, I'd really love to go with him, but I don't even know if he remembers me from two weeks ago. Maybe I'll just have my roommate set me up." 
The Dav Before: "What do I wear? Do I follow the 'Peanuts' theme and dress up like Peppermint Patty, or do I stick with «fhe standard-a short black dress?" 
The Night Before: "All right, I suppose I should show my dorm spirit and help decorate my hall. Not that guys really care, but it beats studying for that Biology exam." 
Five Hours Before: (at Spencer's in the mall) "Hmmm ... Perhaps X-rated fortune cookies are a bit too suggestive. I really don't know this guy all THAT well. A gag gift can't fail, can it?" 
An Hour Before: "I look fat. My hose just ripped. My hair isn't curling the way it should. Maybe I can get my roommate to help me. Oh, yes, PDS (Pre-Dance Stress) is kicking in. At least I'm not wearing the Snoopy outfit. Yeah, I look good." 
15 Minutes Mter the Dance Has Begun: "well, it's about time he showed up. He got me flowers, how sweet! And, uh, a Hanson poster???" 
At the End of the Dance: "Wow! That was surprisingly fun. I never would have guessed he could swing like that. Now, how do I manage the goodnight part?" 
Compiled by Jenelle Williams 



--~---~---~-~~ 
c 
n 
s 
OTHE

Tuesday, November 10, 1998-----------------page 11
BSERVER 

ance tfte nisftt awa! 

'Da-me ts tt's st~d'ents oppoPt~-­
ftJe, wttft mufttpfe S muC semesteP 
CHis Stor!: 
The Week Before: "Isn't there a dance coming up? 
The Day Before: "Isn't there a dance coming up?" 
Five Hours Before: "I gotta find a date. Do I have clean boxers? Guess I should break out the dog book and start dialing." 
An Hour Before: "I sure hope she isn't that bad in person. He said she was kind of cute. Ok, I'll call her." 
4 5 Minutes Bef0 re: "I wonder if I need to tell her what time I'll pick her up. I'm sure she can figure it out. I mean, it'll be sometime between 7 and 10 p.m." 
40 Minutes Before: "Ok, I actually have a date. Now I need a ticket. Really should have bought that a week ago. Oh dang. A gift! What should I giver her? Flowers, the all occasion, all purpose gift. Now I just have to shower. /\nd where the heck is that ticket guy? 
20 Minutes Before: "Should I steal a flower? Where did that guy get his flower? Maybe she'll make me cookies." 
5 Minutes After the Dance Has Begun: "And I'm off to get my date. So I'm late. She probably won't be ready anyhow. Oh well." 
At the End of the Dance: "I knew social dance would come in handy. Where can I get some gum?" 
Compiled by Jenelle Williams 
t

ND dances\! 
By JENELLE WILLIAMS cheesy themes and the bofore there is with Notre Darpe campus students take part in bond with fellow hall residents. 
Seen~ Writ1'r 
dance parties are all traditions dances. For example!;;,at the dances Due to the quantity of dam·es. a ingrained in Notre Dame's Eastern Michigan, only.n\'6tit~i9 Othe ols often have sea­tremendous amount of pressure Why do Notre Dame students 
social life. Traditions whir.h just btws of certairi'"'sororities a.nd soual dahces, but at Notre is lifted. They become relatively oecasionally oxpose thomsolvos aren't present at a lot of other ,fraternities attend the sch~';;1. Dame student all 27 donns commonplace, allowing the to days, or at least hour, of con­
Universities. wide events. have four dances offered yearly. good points to be emphasized fusion and anxiousness in 
Many other schools only have At the University of Maryland, SYRs and formals are an and some of the burd~m to exchange for a couple tlMting 
only a fow dances a year. Even dances are • designed p~iniariiy "~ntt)gtal part of dorm life, thB evaporate. hoUJ'S of fun? with the scarcity. participation, for freshmen. In the eye's of,, ·suhstitute.or parallel, one might Unlike events at many other Porhnps beeauso thero is 
espedally among the freshmen many students, especially say, to the Greek System. Thus, universities, Notre Dame nothing else to do. Or maybe it's dass, is typically low at other uppet-classmen, they are usual-they provide not only a way to dances blend into everyday lite tho spirit of it all. The sugges­
schools. There is often not the ly somewh.~t pathetic. At Notre get to kno:a:. that special some­and almost guarantee a good tivP gifts. the dog books, tlH~ 

sense that "eyeryoM goes" M;.ntDame, ·.· to time. 
1Jt ··,:;;m,w&r;:;:. · :· 
The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 10, 1998 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu Junior defender Kara Brown helped shut out the explosive Connecticut Huskies' offense in Sunday's Big East Championship. 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 

age, the second best percentage among the 63 teams that have played in the NCAA women's soccer championship since its incep­tion in 1982. 
The Irish have been highly successful against this season's NCAA field posting a 7-1-1 record including wins over Connecticut. Wake Forest, Syracuse, Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin. The Irish also played to a 1-1 tie against Connecticut earlier this season. Notre Dame's only loss came at the hands of North Carolina, 5-1, in September at Chapel Hill, N.C. 
Notre Dame will host either Michigan, who the Irish defeated 1­0 in double overtime two weeks ago, or Xavier. Michigan finished the regular season with a 13-6-1 record advancing to the semifi­nals of the Big Ten Tournament, while Xavier was 11-6-2. The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Sophomore Monica Gonzalez and junior Annie Makinen {8) led the Irish to victory over Connecticut 1-0. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classitleds musr be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edir all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
NOTICES WANTED
II 

SPRING BREAK '99! THE COPY SHOP Cancun'Nassau· Jamaica'Mazatl LaFortune Student Center an• Acapulco'Bahamas We're Open A Lot!!! Cruise'Fiorida'South Padre Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Travel Free and make lots of Fri: 7:30 am • 7:00 pm Cash!Top reps are offered full-Sat: Noon-6:00pm time staff jobs.Lowest price Sun: Noon · Midnight Guaranteed.Call now for details! When you need copies, www.classtravel.com 
'Interested in Making Money .. Large Physical Therapy & Sports Rehab Center looking for students  FOR SALE  II  TICKETS  Need 4 LSU GA's call scott x3381  
to make Follow-up phone calls to see how our patients are doing.  PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272·6306  PERSONAL  
Filing and some coputer entry may  CALL 258-4805  
be required.  Flexible hours.  TICKETMART Inc  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  
..Call Gerard or Doug Now! ..  FOR SALE.  BUY -SELL· TRADE  Break"  
233-5754  LIVE PHISH CDS!  Notre Dame Football Tickets  Spring Break Packages are  
Bed box set.  258-1111  going fast. Check out our Hot  
FOR RENT  not available in U.S. call pete at  No student tickets please  Jamaica Packages for the Class of '99!Stop in at Anthony Travel in the  

we're open! 800/838-6411 251-0178. LaFortune Student Center and 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR SALE check out the best Spring Break Early Spring Break CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY Beautiful brass bed, queen FOOTBALL TICKETS vacations around.Get your deposit Specials!Bahamas Party EARN UP TO $11.00 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243·0658. size, with orthopedic mattress set 271-9412 in by Dec.18 and save. Don't take a 
Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes Part-time work around class. most meals! Awesome No telemarketing. Car needed Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Scholarships available. Florida!Cancun & Jamaica call 2:30 until 5:30 mon-wed. Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties 282-2357. $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties Driver Needed $129!Daytona Room With From ND to anywhere in Kitchen Oregon/Washington after finals. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space avail able for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road,Exit #107 1-800-418-9487 and deluxe frame. New,never used,still in plastic. $225 219-862-2082 

1 BLK. So. of N.D. ALL BRICK RANCH 728 PEASHWAY 
chance with an unknown agency or  
WANTED  some 1·800 number.Limited space  
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  available,so book now!  
271-1526  Anthony Travel, Inc.  
LaFortune Student Center  
ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL  631-7080  

273-3911 Looking for a unique gift? ND Football Tickets Needed. Bring in 12 of your favorite pic 
$149!springbreaktravel.com Snow tires and 4-wheel drive. 3 BED ROOMS-2 FULL BATHS AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 lures and we'll create a custom 1-800-678-6386 $200 plus gas Insurance BED 'N BREAKFAST REG 2 FIREPLACES-2 CAR color calendar. required. Shawn at 271-8250 ISTRY-rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD GARAGE ND FOOTBALL TIX THE COPY SHOP 
Four Flags Antique Mall Holiday 291-7153. FINISHED BASEMENT FOR SALE LaFortune Student Center Open House SPRINGBREAK PHONE 272·2252 AM 232-2378 Nov. 14th & 15th Florida,Texas,Cancun,Mexico,Ja 1 ,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. PM 288-2726 Where oh where is my favorite 
..............................
Prizes Refreshments maica,etc. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROP Stanford elf? Practicing for his 
Special Browse www.icpt.com and call ERTIES.272-6551 MICHIGAN-NEW BUFFALO Need LSU tix new job, maybe? Sales 800-327-6013. Best New Condos overlook the vast 289·2918 218 S. 2nd St. hotels,prices and parties. 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM wetlands. hi mark. thank you for being Downtown Niles Ml Reps,organizations, and promot PUS. AVAIL. NOW & FALL Walk to town/beach. 2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by there for me. i needed it. 
ers wanted. Inter-Campus 1999. 272-6306 Under $190k. 11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323 Our B&B has last minute space Programs Ruth Realtors x4709 lv msg happy birthday krupa! no longer for LSU due to cancellation. 4,5,or 6 in your group? I have the 1-888-225-RUTH a teenager.
...............................
1.5 miles from campus. CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT-houses for you-call Greg 233-Always buying and selling N D Great for parents & relatives. Workers earn up to $2000/month 9947 football tickets. 289-8048 
next time i am going to win the 277.2388. (w/tips & benefits).World PHONE CARDS thumb war. Travei!Land-Tour jobs up to WALK TO CAMPUS $20 buys 282 mins. Parents coming to town and I $5000-$7000/summer.Ask us 2-5 BEDROOM Contact: need 2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4-CKC strikes again! 
how! 517-336-4235 Ext.C55841 232-2595 Andrea -634·2584 4896.
ILOST & FOUND I 

LOST: GOLD RING BETWEEN Holiday Banquet servers needed SIEGFRIED AND BOND HALL please apply in person. BEFORE BREAK. MICHAEL @ 2225. 4-4862 Michigan street. 
234-5200 
Dori • 684-3339  10 days until 21. :)  
..Looking for a place off-cam  MiMi • 634-0907  NEED 4 LSU GA TIX.  
pus?.. Nice efficiency apart  CALL257·1141.  Ali do you see sparks?  
ment, 375/month, utilities includ  1 ND vs LSU ticket. Face value +  Who? What? I don't get it.  
ed, close to campus call NOW  postage.  ND vs. Navy Football Ticket!!  Guys -what's going on?  
283-0406  404-784-1128.  (219)634-1439MUST SELL!!  

Tuesday, November I 0, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Lund. Losing the first game 7-5, she regained her composer and
Tennis 
won the second set 7-5. 
Use Observer Classifieds 
Lund proved to be too much for

continued from page 20 
Varnum in the third set, howev­
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
Ll ANI> ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE PR•:s•:NT:
~ 
~ 

DEATH PENALTY FORUM 

t 
i 
<> 
.., 
i 
.., 
g 


p 
.., ~ 
c:l 
I c 
t y 1> 
1~,,_
? 

Fernandez of Marquette, 6-0, 6­1. 
In the second round Varnum turned in another straight set vic­tory over Michelle Matko of Ohio State, 6-2, 6-4. Varnum faced greater challenges when the tournament started up again on Friday morning. Facing 14th seeded Alice Hangsithienehai, Varnum took her game to a new level. After winning a close open­ing set 7-5, Varnum dominated in the second set winning 6-1 to take the match in straight sets. 
Varnum's third-round victory made her the only Irish player to advance to the quarterfinals in the single's bracket. The chal­lenges would only grow for Varnum in the quarterfinals when she faced 11th-seeded Jean Kansuthi of Eastern Michigan. Winning the first set in a convincing manner, 6-1, Varnum droppnd a dose second set 7-6. 
Losing her first set of the entire tournament didn't phase Varnum as she rallind back to dominate the final set 6-1, taking the match two sets to one. 
Varnum fought valiantly in the semifinals against 12th-ranked 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
er, winning a 7-5 and advancing to the finals, two game to one. Despite being only a frnshman, the Irish were not surprised by Varnum's strong showing. 
"She !Varnum! got a good draw," Velasco said. "Shn playnd really hard but came up just a lit­tle short." 
Velasco advanced to the sec­ond round by defnating Purdue's Lisa Walgnnbach, 4-6, (1-2, 6-0. Hownver in the sncond round, Velasco fell to eventual semi­linalist Kung, 6-7. 6-2. (1-4. 
"The girl I playod against just played really wnll," Velasco said. "She had a gnmt tournament." 
Junior Kelly Zalinski robound­od from a first round loss to Natalie Soetrisno of Miami to advance to the Consolation semi­finals. Zalinski defeated Carrie Townsend, Hoz Sweeney and Pamela Hodriguez in straight sots bd<>re falling to Jessica Anderson oflndiana, 6-1, 7-5. 
In doubles action, the Irish placed all three of thnir teams into the quarterfinals with the tnam of llall and Dasso advanc­ing to the semifinals beforn falling to seeond-snedod Kristy Dascoli and Brianna Ilarris of Ohio State 6-4, 6-3 . 
Women's Veteran Boxing Meeting-There will be a mandato­ry informational meeting on Tuesday, Nov. 10 at 7 p.m. in the boxing room, downstairs in the Joyce Center. We wil be preparing for the spring season and a fall 1\mdraiser. Any questions please call Meghan McCurday at 4-3769. 
Faculty/Staff/Family Tennis Clink -Bring your own raequet to the Eck Tennis Pavilion for this free clinic pmsonted by the Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis Teams. Stroke Analysis and Playing Situations hightlight this event from 6-7:30 p.m. on \Xednesday, Nov. 18. Don't forget your tennis shoes. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more information. 

I I
w1nn1ng is a habit 
any questions? 
rec ru iti n~J·l.Ydcsys. com 

Alliance for Catholic Education 
TIRED OF GE'TTING HOMEWORK? 
THEN GIVE SOME! 
Be ateacher and experience: 
· Master-level Teacher Preparation · Community Life · Spiritual Development 
Informational meetin[: 
Thursday, November 12th, 7:00 pm in the Hesbur[h Library Auditorium. Any Uuestions? Call the ACE Office at 631-7052. 
4mm.~ 
page 14 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Irish scored wins in all but three events against Pittsburgh, winning 194-106. They also gave up only two wins in defeating Purdue 195­106 and Miami 218-82. 
"I don't think we could have asked for anything better at this point in the season," women's coach Bailey Weathers said. "All in all, it was a really good meet, and a really good experience." 
Sophomore Carrie Nixon and freshman Kelly Hecking were double winners over all teams in the sprint freestyle and backstroke events. respective­ly. 
Freshman Allison Lloyd found herself defeating all but Miami's Amanda Furlano in the 100 and 200 breaststrokes. 
Also defeating all competi­tion were juniors Allison Newell and Liz Barger in the butterf1y events, and freshman Heather Mattingly in three-meter diving. 

With no meet the weekend prior, the Irish settled into a rigorous training schedule. This allowed for some doubt as to weather the Irish would see a three-way victory, according to Weathers. 
"We had a hard week of training, so we thought it would be a difficult situation," Weathers said. "It wouldn't have surprised us to be beat by one of the teams." 
"Purdue had some good swimmers, but we were much deeper than any of the other teams," Barger said, noting that Pittsburgh placed third behind Notre Dame and Miami (Fla.) at February's Big East Championships. 
The women now stand at 5-2 for the season and look to be a dominant force at the Minnesota Invitational, Nov. 20-22. 
The men's next meet is Saturday against Cleveland State. The Irish are counting on experience to guide them, as CSU has not had a dual meet yet this season. 
The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 10, 1998 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

The men's swim team placed second in its meet this weekend, beating Miami, but falling to Purdue and Iowa State. 
~ YOU'RE INVITED VETERANS' DAY JOINT MILITARY RETREAT CEREMONY 
Wednesday, November 11 
(ND's Army, Navy, & Air Force ROTC units pay tribute to America's militcuy veterans) 
Starts-4:30p.m. at the South Quad Flag Pole (weather permitting) or Fieldhouse Mall (inclement weather site) 
. ·\ 
~------------~----------------------------------------------------------~ 

. 

Tuesday, November 10, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 




November 10-11 
.99 WHOPPER® 
Sandwich 
cee1. •••s_.• a1•s® 
liml•~• 

Obligatory info. on Dave Rudolf you may or may not wish to know: 
Featured on Dr. Demento's radio show 
Appeared on HBO Comedy shorts and numerous cable television shows 
Headlined at comedy clubs, Ravinia, 
Summerfest, Taste of Chicago and 
hundreds of concert venues 
throughout the United States 
Performed at over 2,000 colleges 
12 nominations for NACA College Entertainer of the Year 
Dave Rudolf 
Appearing Tuesday, November 10 2 shows--9:30p.m. and 10:30 p.m. at Burger King® in LaFortune 


f-
page 16 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 10. 1998 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 







OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: 
http://www.nd.edu/~ministry 
Tuesday, NovemLber 10, 7:00-8:30 p.m., Badin Hall Chapel Campus Bil:•le Study 
Wednesday, November 11,7:00 pm. Log Chapel Part 6 of a Seven-Part Series on the Gifts of the 1-loly Spirit: Understanding by Professor John Cavadini 
Friday-Saturday;. November 13-14, 1:00pm-7:00pm, St. Joe Hall Freshman Retreat #19 · 
Friday-Saturday;. November 13-14,5:30pm-5:00pm,Lindenwood Learning To Talk About Race Retreat 
Friday-Saturday;. November 13-14, 6:30pm-5:00pm, Five Pines ROTC Fresltman Retreat 
Saturday, Noven:1ber 14, 11:00 am, Stonehenge (Field House Mall) Living Rosary, sponsored by North Quad Liturgical & Service Commissioners All are Welcome! Rain location: Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Sunday, November 15 Folk Choir Concert at the Michigan City State Prison 
Sunday, November 15, St Joe Hall RCIA Retreat 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 p1m until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's ChapeL Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until4:45 pm, Lady ChapeL Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Emmaus 

Looking for an exciting place to explore and share your faith with others? Look no further. Emmaus is here. For more information on joining a small faith sharing community in our Emmaus program contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016. 
--~-------------­
Tuesday, November 10, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
l 
I 
• fENCING 
Notre Dame posts strong finishes in Penn State Open 
Special to The Observer Magda Krol. Fellow women women's foil. 
epeeists Kiersten Ferguson and The 1998 NCAA sabre cham­
Individuals from the Notre captain Nicole Mustilli placed pion, Luke LaValle, finished Darn(l fencing team competed 22nd and 27th respectively. ahead of all the competition in the Max Garret P1mn State Irish women's foilists and placing first. Freshman Andre Open this past weekend. The three-time All-Americans Crompton placed fifth in sabre. Notre Dame team sent 21 Myriah Brown and Sara Walsh Veteran sabrists George feneers to University Park, both finished in the top ten. Viamontes and Brian Banas fin­Pennsylvania for a preseason Walsh placed fifth, while Brown ished 26th and 43rd respective­tune-ups. took the number seven spot. ly. 
Notre Damn's women's epee Aimee Kalogera (26th), Stacey In men's foil Charles Hayes squad was represented by a Noem (:H), Gina Couri (48th) was the top Irish competitor first place showing from 1997 and Liz Dailey (50) also repre­gaining a number 14 finish. NCAA women's npee champion SI~nted the Irish fencing team in Freshman Steve Mautone had a 
God's

people
need you. 

For more injf.1rmariof( utt 
tilt· Holy Cross one-\'Nll Cwuildate 1-'rof<ram c·mtwcr 
\-1 ore au S~:m ilta1_y 
rr. Jnn Kmg. <'\(' Notrt:' Dame, IN 46556 (2 ll)) 63 1-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocatiott 

ANSWER~ 
THE CALL '-<:f>/ 
strong showing finishing 22nd. Senior Mick Swiney, junior Chris Brough and senior, cap­tain Stephane Auriol placed 40th, 43rd and 52nd respec­tively. 
Freshman Brian Casas was the bright spot for the Irish competitors in men's epee. Casas had a 16th place showing while fellow epeeists Dominic Guarnaschelli, Scott Gabler and Nitin Chandra finished 45th, 51st and 55th respectively. 
The Observer/John Daily 

Defending 1998 NCAA sabre champion Luke LaValle finished first this 
weekend at the Penn State Open. 

A Hanley Lecture Series Program : Notre Dame Washington Semester and The Program in Journalism, Ethics & Democracy 


An Interactive Video Conference Discussion from Notre Dame's Washington D.C. Program 
The lessons of 
* E.J. Dionne, Jr., Washington Post columnist 

* Cokie Roberts, ABC Anchor & NPR Analyst 
~\~ 

~ * Mark Shields, columnist & PBS commentator 
Thursday * November 12th * 7:30 p.m. DeBartolo Room 141 

I' 

-
--~------~ 

----~~-~ 
Tuesday, November 10, 1998 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
The Office of the Provost Emeritus and the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
Present: 

''The Catholic Church in China" 
a discussion by 
The Most Rev~ Aloysius Jin, S.J. Bishop of Shanghai 
Tuesday, November 1 0 4:15p.m. ,'''t C-103 Hesburgh Center 
>•• ChaTr: Timothy O'Meara, Provost Emeritus 
The Most Reverend Aloysius Jin, S.J., Bishop of Shanghai, has been an important figure in the. deveiOPt!)ent.Qf the q~tholiq,,Q.hurc~.. ip China. A devout child whose attendance at daily Mass and participation in a serious prayer life was fostered by his motherJ themyoun~f'Jin maintained his teNor despite her death when he was nine years old. A Jesuit retreat when he was sixteen confirmed his desire to conse~ crate his life to Christ. He entered the Shanghai Seminary, studied literature, philosophy and .languages andJater taught at a. nearby boarding school. Believing that he was called to yet deeper seNice of God, he entered the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) in his early twen­ties. Ordained a priest in 1945, he seNed the Church in China until his superiors, fearing for his safety, sent him to France to complete his Jesuit training. Studies followed in France, Ireland and F~ome, where he received his doctorate in Theology and Dogmatics from Gregorian University. Despite efforts to keep him in Europe, Dr. Jin believed that his place was with his Chinese people and returned there in 1951. He seNed then as rector of the Shanghai Seminary and later as Superior of all Jesuits in (;hina. In 1953 he was arrest~d and incarcerated by the Chinese communist government. For the next 25 years he remained their prisOhe'r, finally freed in 1982. After his release he returned to Shanghai and has worked tirelessly since then tor the open church in China. Elected Bishop of Shanghai in 1984, he re-established the Shanghai Seminary with a serious curriculum of studies, founded a convent, developed a library containing 
.. 
religious books and classics in seven languages, and is working on the translation and publication of the Jerusalem Bible in Chinese. He has consistently striven to implement the spirit of Vatican II in the liturgy and life of his people. Even today in his eighties, he maintains the vigorous devotion to his Savior and his Church which deepened his life from boyhood to the ptesemt 

ALL ARE WELCOME! 
For More Information, contact the Office of the Provost Emeritus at 631-9500 

• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 

Belles improve times despite winless record 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saine Mary's Ediror 
The Saint Mary's swim team sank in its third straight meet over the weekend, falling 72-35 to Lake Forest and just missed catching the University of Chicago 53-48. 
The Belles' winless record may indicate that it is in hot water, but with swimmers steadily improving their times over the weekend, they will most likely be primed for con­ference meets. 
"We improved our times in almost every event," coach Jini Cook said. "They were aggres­sive in all of their races, from start to finish." 
Despite the loss, Saint Mary's is keeping its head up. 
"It's not disappointing 
because we swam so well indi­
vidually," said junior co-captain 
Michelle Samreta. "We've 
already improved so much 
since Transylvania [the previ­
ous weekend's loss] to 
Chicago." 
The 400-meter medley relay 
continued to paddle the Belles 
forward in their placing. 
The four-some of Noreen 
Gillespie, Ann Yanda, Wendy 
Neumann and Samreta shaved 
five seconds off of their winning 
time from their last meet to fin­
ish second against Chicago. 
Samreta attributed the 
speedy time to harder and 
longer practices. 
"I guess you can call them 
lactic acid sets," she said. "Our 
practices were a lot more 

intense and got us ready for the weekend." 
Sophomore Olivia Smith seemed to be motorized in the water. She clipped 21 seconds off of her time in the 1,000­meter freestyle to finish in sec­ond place. 
Smith also took second in the 500-meter freestyle, while her teammate Alica Lesneski touched the wall right before for the win. 
In addition, freshman Danielle Clayton remained a strong point for Saint Mary's. 
She earned three first-place finishes on the road against the host team. In the 50-meter freestyle, Clayton was just .12 seconds off of the school record. 
She also earned a blue-rib­
bon finish for the Belles in the 
100-meter freestyle. 
Along with freshman 
Lesneski, Smith and Tara 
Thomas, Clayton helped bring 
home a win in the 400-meter 
freestyle relay. 
"I think we have a strong 
group of freshman who came 
out this year," Samreta said. 
"What's so good about that is 
that they don't take over the 
team, but contribute to the 
already powerful force and tal­
ent that we have." 
Samreta proved she is a vital 
link in that powerful force, 
tying for first-place in the 100­
meter breaststroke. Her time of 
1:11:47 was just a half-second off of the school record which she already owns and hopes to break again. 
[Please Ft~c~cle The Observer\ 
-~------------------------------------, 
SOUTH BEND 
ZEN GROUP 
Meditation Schedule 

Weekly Every Tuesday even­ing from 7:00-8:30 at Unity Church of Peace, 905 E. Colfax A venue, South Bend, IN. The service con­sists of silent zazen and group chanting of precepts. Tea and dis­cussion afterward. 
Monlhly Day-long retreats the second Sat. of each month, 8AM-5PM at University Park Apartments in Misha­waka, IN. East of No­tre Dame campus on Douglas Rd. near Grape Rd. 

When and where to practice zazen with the South Bend Zen Group 
Retreats -October /0 -November f.J -December 12 -January 9 -February 13·14 -March 13 -April 10 -May8 
Instruction in zazen is pro­vided at weekly meetings and monthly retreats_ No dona­tion is required and no dona­tion is refused at weekly meetings and all are wel­come. Reservations and a $20 fee arc requested for re­treats. 
For information call Tom Brown at 219-288-0703. 

1 
I
Tuesday, November I 0, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 I 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 

FOXTROT HI, A~DY, IT'S ME. I'M ouT BACI< ON 1\iE MoBYTEL. I _..--s: RoGER, SPEAI< UP. I CAN'T :' HEAR YOU.  I SAID I'M OUT BACK ON 11-iE MoBYTEL.' 1 ~" I STILL CANi HEAR You.  
DILBERT  

~~==========~E~====~~====~ 
1 DON'T UN0£R5Tt>.NO '<OUR TE.C\-\NIC.f>..l  ~ 0®  
REC.Or-\I"\£ND f>..TION I  ~  
"0.. E II  

CROSSWORD I WILL RE.LY ON 1"\Y I<.EEN IN5IG\-ITS. 
Al30l.lT 'r'OU A'::J AN 
ENGIN£.ER. 
ACROSS 27 Part of a bridge 55 "The auction Godfather"
1 Actress Moore writer31 "I--a clue·5 Grade school 57 "Mazeppa"grade 35 Maidenform composerpurchase
9 More peculiar 
58 Singer Clapton 14 Attorney 
36 Hosiery shade 59 "The..Figure of 

Dershowitz 37 Tours school 1sChill 38 Carrier from Dickinson 16 "Superman" Stockholm 60 "Let's Make 
star 39 "Sweeney 
17 Elan Todd" prop 61 File's partner 18 High schooler 40Et--62 Exceptional 19 Trembling tree 63 Shouldered
41 90's 20 "South Pacific" convenience, 64 Do in CO·Star for short 
65--bien 22 NO> 42 Prove a failure 23 Bounced, as a 
43 Lastingbaby on the 
DOWN 
45 Part of a sharkknee 

sighting 1 In a fog 

24 "I. Claudius" 
46 Kind of nut 2 Professor 

attire Higgins's pupil 47 Luanda resident 26 Literary 
3"The-the
collection 52 Assail 
White Suit" (1951 film) 4 "--We Trust"
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Like Job 

6 To-do list 30 "--Mabie"
AEDIDIACMEIAWOL 
7---Canal (1918 best 
GOODFORNOTHI NGS 
ALONE COAX MILO 
-cS I R E .LIE.REGGAE 
CAME A R E N B E 
ONE.AE.A 
T A R P·~ T E I N -A A C H C A S AMULET.SAG. H-T 
DAN SULLIVAN 
BILL AMEND 
HoNE! YOU"LL HAVE To SPEAK uP. 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THt>.T TOO WOULD 
REQUIRE KNOWL£.0GE 
ON '{OUR Pto..RT. 

seller)

a Capitol Hill 45 Cooked cereal 53 Resort near gang Venice
31 Superintendent 

48 Modern 9 Lunchbox item museum 54 River to the 
32 Bill of Rights defender, for 

10 Bandleader/TV display North Sea 
short

star of old 49 Kind of module 56 Sea east of the 
33 ---dire (court

11--ofEduc. 50 Sky blue Caspian
procedure)
12 At any time 

34 "Gentleman's 13 America West 
Agreement"' Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

destination director 
are available by touch-tone phone: 21 DC·10 35 Ka-pow! 

1-900·420·5656 (751l per minute). BESTFOOTFIRWARD 25 Eggs 38 Clambake fare 
Annual subscriptions are available for the B I E AI A 0 u E c A I N E 28 Fly low over 39 Fab Four name 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last ANDY SONS ADDON 29 Golden calf 41 Part of A.P.B. 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665 




YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST .,. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): New DAY: Roy Scheider, Sinbad, Macken­romanlic encounters will develop zie Phillips, Donna Fargo through activities that include large 
Happy Birthday: Take good care groups and organizations. You can of yourself lhis year. You will be get a lot accomplishc'<l if you are will­inclined to run yourself ragged if you ing to communicate openly. 000 don't make special arrangements and LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can take time to sit back and relax. You make major financial gains by using will be alert and quick to make things your intuition. However, you should happen; however, if you take your talk to those with knowledge aboul time, you will build a solid base that the investments in which you wish to will be sure to bring you prosperity get involved. 0000 and respect. Your nwnbers: 5, 15, 24, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Trav­33, 37,42 el and open communication will 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your bring good results. You can make emotions will be unstable if you progress at work or while on business allow others to take you for granted. trips. Uncertainties in your home may Secret love affairs or infatuations will cause confrontations. 00 develop suddenly; however, they SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): may not be lasting. 00000 You may reflect on past experiences 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Talk with respect to old friends and lovers. over your current problems with Don't live in the past for too long. your lover. Friends and relatives will Relalionships will flourish if you are give good advice. Travel for pleasure active. 00000 or involvement with groups will pro­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): mote new relationships. 00 Have a positive attitude when deal­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Busi­ing witli your partner. Take time to ness and pleasure will be easily show affection and genuine love. If mixed if you travel today. Your ability you reassure him or her of your feel­to dazzle colleagues will enhance ings, you can safe yourself a lot of your reputation and ensure advance­grief.OOO ment. Social events will promote AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You romance. 0000 can make progress in business ven­
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Travel tures. Take time lo discuss your ideas will be your best objective today. You concerning a more efficient method of can gain knowledge by attending doing things. Romance will develop seminars. Romance will add excite­through work-related social activities. ment to your day. Don't overload 000 your plate or take too much for grant­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You ed.OOO will enjoy taking trips that will en­
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): You can be hance your knowledge. Visits with extremely popular if you socialize. friends or relatives will be enjoyable. Secret love affairs will be tempting. Romantic opportunities will develop Think twice before you get involved. through educational groups you Idle promises are likely with regards belong to. 000 to career advancement. 000 



"Talking With Parents About Post-Graduate Service " -Qtmnisand Doreen Moore, parents of Colleen Moore. liCArChUe, will meet with students who are considering post-graduate service programs today at 4:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Bring questions and con­cerns to discuss regarding parents' and family's perspec­tives on post-graduate service. 
Wanted: Reporters and Photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
.,. 
• 
• 

Sign Up Deadlines: Thursday, November 12th 
CampusSqu~ 
Campus Indoor Soccer (M & W) 
• 

Campus Table Tennis J 

R4~ 
. t.~/ ­
ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION (ENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 

ND seeded fourth in NCAA championships 

Special 10 The Observer 
OVERLAND PAHK. Kan. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team. semifinalists in each of the last four years and champions in 1995. has quali­fied for its sixth consecutive NCAA women's soccer champi­onship and is seeded fourth in the 48-team field. The Irish will play host to the winner of Wednesday night's matchup between Xavier and Michigan either Friday, Saturday or Sunday. Date and time for the match will be determined later this week. 
The Irish finished the season with a 19-2-1 record and defeated Connecticut, 1-0. in the BIG EAST championship match Sundav afternoon. It is the fourth c-onsecutive BIG EAST championship for the Irish. 
Ranked No. 4 in the nation. Notre Dame received the fourth 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 

• 
• 
I [ Hall falls in ITA tournament 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 

~ Ana Fernandez of Marquette, who also teamed with Elisa Penalvo to win the doubles crown. defeated Michelle Lund of Michigan 7-4, 6-4 to capture the singles title of the ITA Midwest Championships at the Eck Tennis Pavilion this weekend. Fernandez, seeded fifth, had earlier defeat number-one-seed­ed, Notre Dame sophomore· Michelle Dasso 7-6, 6-1 in the third round before downing Minnesota's Nora Sauska, 3-6, 6­
4. 6-0. and besting Simone Kung of Illinois in straight sets 6-3. 6-3. 
Lund's road to the champi­onship ran through two Irish players, senior All-American

.. 
Jennifer Hall and freshman Becky Varnum. 
Hall had been winning easily in the early rounds winning in straight sets both times. She defeated Ali Kail of Bradley 6-1, 6-0 and Emily Brampton of Iowa 6-3. 6-0. She looked to be rolling past Lund easily in the first set, winning 6-3 but Lund responded by winning the next two sets 7-6, 7-G to take the match. 
"Lund got lucky on all the big points," senior Marisa Velasco said. "She just played a great tournament. Shelllall] played well, but Lund won the big points." 
Freshman Becky Varnum proved why she had four state championships and compiled a 68-0 singles record in high school by playing an excellent tourna­ment. Varnum opened the tour­nament with an impressive straight set victory over Sara 
see TENNIS I page 13

• 

• Saint Mary's swim­
• Luke LaValle and his ming lost its third 
fellow fencers posted 
.. 
straight meet to Lake 
strong performances in Forest and the 
the Penn State Open. 
University ofChicago.
PORTS 
p.JS 
p.17 
O THE 

page 20 Tuesday, November 10, 1998
BSERVER 


seed in the 48-team field. Undefeated and defending national champion North Carolina (20-0) received the No. 1 seed. Florida. with a 20-1 record. is the No. 2 seed, fol­lowed by Santa Clara (19-0-1) at No. 3. Other seeded teams include Portland (No.5), Connecticut (No. G), Penn State. (No. 7) and Dartmouth (No. 8). 
Notre Dame is making its sixth consecutive appearance in the NCAA championships since 1993. The Irish advanced to three straight finals from 1994-96 and won the champi­onship in 1995 with a 1-0 win over No. 1 North Carolina in the semifinals and a 1-0 triple overtime win against undefeat­ed Portland in the champi­onship game. The Irish are 14­4-0 all-time in their five NCAA championship appearances with a .778 winning percent-
see SOCCER I page 12 

• SWIMMING 

Irish triumph in weekend meets 
By WES RICHARDSON 
Sports Writer 

The women's swim team won three dual meets in as many hours Saturday by beating Purdue, Pittsburgh and Miami of Ohio in a quad­rangular meet at Holt's Aquatic Center. 
The men followed with a four-way meet of their own. defeating Miami and falling to Purdue and Iowa State. 
The men's meet included representatives from the Big East, Big Twelve, Big Ten and Mid-American Conferences. 
"I thought our third place finish was the most ambitious one we eould reasonably expect to achieve." men's coach Tim Welsh said. "The guys did a very good job, and they did it coming ofT the ten hardest training days of the year." 
Notre Dame and Miami traded the third place spot twice before the Irish came up victorious 210-192. Purdue won the meet with 333 points, followed by Iowa State at 283. 
"What the guys did well was to keep the intensity and focus in the middle of the meet. That helped at the end when Miami had the lead with two events to go," Welsh said, noting that the Irish did not enter the diving events. 
Individual season best times continued to improve. Junior Bay Fitzpatrick swam his fastest 200-yard freestyle since the Shamrock Classic meet in March with a 1:42.57. 
Sophomore Dan Szilier scored a season best time, as well as third place, in the 200 breaststroke at 2:08.14. Senior Scott Zumbaeh also swam to a third plaee finish with a 1:54.93 in the 200 individual medley. 
Many swimmers experi­mented in events they do not normally swim. The most suc­cessful of these was sopho­more James Scott-Browne's third place in the 200 back­stroke. At 1:52.88, Scott­Browne swam exactly one second above the University record. set in 1992 by Tom Whowell. brother of captain Steele Whowell. 
Junior Sean Casey, also normally a distance swim­mer, found personal success with season best timns in 200 yards nach of freestyle, back­stroke, and individual med­ley. 
The meet was seored in championship format, with two heats per event. The goal was to have the feel of both a dual meet and a champi­onship meet. according to 
Welsh.  
"This is the first time  we  
tried that format, and  we  
liked it," Welsh said.  

In the women's meet, the 
see IRISH I page 14 

vs Navy vs. Bowling Green 
November 14, 3:30p.m. November I3, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Cross Country at NCAA District IV Meet,
ATA 
November 14, TBA 

NCAA First Round game at Pittsburgh November 14, TBA November 14, 1 p.m. 
GLANCE 






