
Conquering the Mountaineers 
'71i4eeaJ4 /lfllteaU#Uf
• Students have a new
Let's talk 
forum for discussing
• Last night, the Irish men slammed home 
• The Snite hosts a "Singular Impressions: 
homosexuality.
a thrilling win over a ranked opponent. 
the Monotype in America" 
about it .... 
p. 7
p.20 
p. 10 


Friday, January 16, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 71 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPERS ' I ' I" I 
• SECURITY BEAT 
ND police identify obscene prank phone caller 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
A local man will face five eounts of telephone harassment after Notre Dame Security/Police impli­catl~d him in a throe-year spree of m"1arly 40 calls, according to assis­tant dirr-ctor Chuck llurley. 
The 45-year-old South Bend resi­dent. who is not yet in police cus­tody, called the on-campus women from an off-campus location, llurley said. The man then alleged­ly engaged them in conversation under the guise of conducting a survey on family life. 
"He quickly turned to sexual questions or other highly personal ones," Hurley said. "We probably have between 30 and 40 reported cases, but I'm sure he called other females who just didn't report it." 
One Notre Dame junior said her interaction with the man was espe­cially unnerving. 
"lie called me early one morning and woke me up. I told him it was not a good time [to answer survey questions], so he actually called me back the next day," she said. "It scares me to think that he was not 
Clarissa Dalloway's 
opens Saturday after management change 
By JENNIFER D'ANASTASIO News Writer 
Starbucks it isn't. Rather. a student-run coffee house where what the students say, goes. The cot­tage-like Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse at Saint Mary's finally opens this Saturday with regular hours and yes, coffee. 
"Dalloway's will accommodate all students whether thny want to study, chat or relax." explained student manager Holly Arends. "It's an alternative to the other social scenes." 
Every Monday, Wednesday and Saturday, the cof­fee house will offer its services from 7 p.m. to mid­night. The three co-managers, Margaret Kensinger, Kant Markovich. and Holly Arends, will alternate nights. 
"With more funding and a very modest stipend for thn rmmagnrs." Holly stressed, "Dalloway's will be more accessible." 
Since thn coffee shop's unheralded birth in 1991, thn opnration has been run solely on a volunteer basis. This year the Board of Governance presented Oalloway's with a grant for renovations. However, the renovations startnd off on the wrong foot earli­nr this fall when two senior managers were re!nased from their positions. 
Formnr managers Mia Hinehold and Joya Mukerjee submitted a proposal to Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred outlining the results of student surveys that were conducted in the first few randomly calling everyone -that he took special notiee of my num­ber and dialed it again." 
Telephone harrassment is a Class B misdemeanor, the maximum penalty for which is imprisonment for a term of no more than 180 days, and a fine of up to $1,000. 
St. Joseph County prosecutor Mike Barnes, who could not be reached for comment, authorized the charges and requested the now­active warrant for the man's arrest. Hurley declined to release the man's name, but confirmed that he is not affiliated with the University. 
the mes­year-old Mishawaka sages to Carolyn Woo, dean the. culpritin.·. · 'th""''"t"'. ofthl;l College of Busilie!'!s phohed in to the . . Administration, and The campus during' winter break, according to Chuck see BOMB I page 6 



wenks of the smnester asking for suggestions for 
Notre Dame students h13aded back to the computer labs yesterday, beginning the semester's round of papers. 

see COFFEE I page 4 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Solomon: Cloning not a tl1reat to nation's moral fiber 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
Senior Sta!TWriter 
The plan recently announced by a Chicago area scientist to clone human beings is a dan­gerous abuse of technology that is likely to lead to serious ethi­cal problems in the near future, according to professor David Solomon of Notre Dame's phi­losophy department. 
Dr. Richard Seed, a physicist who 20 ynars ago turned to reproductive biology in his spare time, has created an uproar in the fields of medicine, politics and ethics by announc­ing last week that he plans to 
open a clinic to create clones ity. People, he said, tend not to want," he said. for infertile couples. question whether newly possi­"The only questions we can 
And what's more, Seed ble processes, such as cloning, really ask are questions about already has four couples who are right or wrong. whether it is an effective means want to try it. 
of satisfying people's 
Therefore, despite ' ~r-"t OD MADE MAN IN HIS OWN wants and whether it 
the ban on using fed­
•JIMAGE. HIS PIAN' FOR MAN causes anyone pain,

eral money for human IS THAT WE WILL BECOME ONE WITi1 Solomon added. 
cloning, Solomon Because cloning
GOD, AND TillS IS ASIGNIFICANT

believes that "cloning seems to give the right 
of human beings will STEP' IN THAT DIHECTION.' 
answers to these two surely come, and prob­questions, he said, it is ably sooner rather 
DR. RICHARD SEED probable that cloning
than later." 

Solomon explained that when it comes to technolo­gy, society today is usually only interested in judging it by its efficiency, and not for its moral-will quickly become commonplace. 
"Our cultme lacks the moral "It doesn't seem like we're resources to resist any piece of hurting anybody [by cloning new technology that promises humans)," he said, "so I don't 
to give people what they really think we can resist this techno!-see CLONE I page 6 
ogy." 
Meanwhile, lawmakers from the state level to the federal level have proposed new bans on human cloning. "I, for one, don't want to live in a 'Brave New World' of sidewalk cloning clinics," said U.S. House Majority Leader Dick Armey. "Congress should pass a human cloning ban quickly and stop this experimentation before it starts." 
Cloning is already illegal in 10 states, but Illinois and Indiana are not among these. 
And so, despite the fact that 

J 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Must be the n1oney 
Wnll. the Paekers have again proven them­selves by beating the 49ers in as Brett Favre put it, "the game everyone wanred to see." So, it seems as that most Ameriean of all holi­
days approaehes, the winner of the Super Bowl has again been deeided in the NFC Championship game. 
Does this mean that I'm discounting the Broneos entirely? Yes, it does. It 


gets easy diseounting  Eduardo Llull  
the AFC after watehing  Associate Viewpoint  
13 years of futile  Editor  
attempts on its part.  

While many Americans on Super Bowl Sunday will be rooting for John Elway to ride ofT into the sunset with a Super Bowl victory, we all know that's not going to happen. 
But. why has the NFC dominated the Super Bowl for so long? Ask 10 people and you'll get 10 different answers. IIere are a few common theories. 
Jt'sjust NFC smash-mouth football. Sure, the tough defenses and power running games of the lledskins. Bears and Giants of the past­were smash-mouth, but this style of football is not exclusive to the NFC, look at the Browns in the 1980s (they never could get passed Elway, however). Also. teams like the Niners. Cowboys. and Packers have won with diiTorent. more finesse styles of football. 
The NFC has better players. This is impos­sible to argue. How about better quarter­baeks'? No. We can't discount the efforts of the likes of Dan Marino. Elway. and Jim Kelly. All great quarterbacks, all winners in their own right. but none could put their teams on top of the football world. 
The NFC has better coaching. Marv Levy was a wizard to go to four straight Super Bowls. Just because he couldn't win one of them does not keep him from the greatness he deserves. Also, Super Bowl champion coaches such as Bill Parcells and Jimmy .Johnson have made the jump to the AFC from thn NFC and are yet to bring a Super Bowl ehampionship to their new league. Parcells carne dose, but he too became a victim of the NFC stronghold on the Super Bowl. 
I propose a dill'ernnt theory. Of the past 13 Super Bowls eight have been won by the 49ers and the Cowboys. Both are large mar­ket teams with owners like Eddie DeBartolo .Jr. and Jerry Jones who are willing to dig deep into their pockets and produce the cash to get the players they want. The other five Super Bowls in this period were won by teams in lucrative markets as well. 
Even the implementation of the salary cap in 1993 could not slow these teams down. A perfect example is the magic worked by team prnsident Carmen Policy in the Niners' 1994 Super Bowl season. Other teams with the money to do it have copied his example by using huge signing bonuses and voidable years to pay players the money they want. 
My advice to the AFC: You need money. Maybe use DnBartolo as an example and hit the easinos; just be more careful than he was. 
In the meantime, I look forward to Eddie D reaching into his pockets and bringing anoth­er Super Bowl to all of us in San Francisco. lley, just win at all costs, baby. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Laura Petelle  Ashleigh Thompson  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Heather Cocks  Dave Piening  
Sports  Production  
Sarah Dylag  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Joe Stark  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the AssodatcJ. Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, January 16, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 
(---7:~'~?)'7 'h •d h 




~~~::~utst e t e Dome 
\J • Compiled from U-Wire reports 
IU recognizes King's birthday for the first time 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
For the first time in IU history, the administration will recognize Monday's Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a university holiday. This acknowl­edgement comes 12 years after the 
U.S. made King's birthday into a national holiday. 
Classes will not meet, but the King Day Committee hopes to make its theme, "A Day On, Not a Day Off," a reality. Since May. the committee, comprised of about 30 students and faculty members, has been carefully planning the events. 
"It's good that we ean have the whole day to celebrate King Day, but the day off creates a three-day week­end. That gave the committee a chal­lenge of getting students to stay (on campus) and take part in the events," said dean of African-American Affairs Lawrence Hanks, who is co-chairing the committee along with IU Vice Chancellor Kenneth Gros Louis. 


The Student Coalition organized last year's King Day protest that ultimate­ly led to the IU Board of Trustees' recognition of the holiday. But Coalition members declined to com­ment on their plans for the day. 
Senior Joon Park, Coalition member and Asian American Assoeiation pres­ident, said the recognition of the holi­day allows students to concentrate on its meaning. 
"This year, we don't have to go through all the processes of a protest in order to have a proper celebra­tion," Park said. "The events bring attention to the purpose of this holi­day, which is a celebration of endeav­ors for civil liberties." 
The events began Thursday with a King Day Commemorative March, and other activities continue until Monday evening. llepresentatives from a vari­ety of campus organizations, such as the IU Student Association, the Black Student Union and the Gay. Lesbian & Bisexual Student Support Services Office comprise the committee. 
In the committee's quest for speak­ers, Hanks said it looked for promi­nent African-American leaders. 
• TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY 
Athlete pleads no contest to assault 

FORT WORTH, Texas 
Lee Nailon, a junior center for the TCU basketball team, 
pleaded no contest Wednesday to a class A misdemeanor 
charge of assault with bodily injury for allegedly beating 
his girlfriend over the Christmas break. Nailon now faces 
one year of probation. During that time, if he commits any 
offense more serious than a speeding ticket, it will be con­
sidered a violation of his probation. He must also attend 
an anger control counseling program. He was not 
assessed any fine. Nailon, who is currently the fourth 
leading scorer in NCAA basketball and first in the WAC, 
will be suspended from the Frogs' Saturday game at San 
Diego State University, but may return to action in the fol­
lowing game against Hawaii, said Billy Tubbs, men's bas­
ketball head coach. The charges stem from an incident 
that occurred Jan. 6 in Moncrief Hall. According to a 
police report, Marti Bell had moved into Nailon's dorm 
room over the Christmas break and was living with him at 
the time of the incident. 
• YALE UNIVERSITY 
School appeals $12 million liability 

NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Yale's School of Medicine is filing a motion to appeal 
today on the recent court case involving a female intern 
suing under the name of "Jane Doe" who was infected 
with the HIV virus, according to Yale legal counsel 
William Doyle. But Michael Koskoff, Doe's attorney, said 
he does not anticipate that the appellate court, consisting 
of a panel of judges, will overturn the decision. "I don't 
think they have very much of a chance of winning on 
appeal," Koskoll' said. "The appeal only can be granted if 
a mistake was made in the lower court. The appellate 
court cannot simply reverse a jury's decision." Doe con­
tracted the HIV virus in August of 1988 while performing 
an arterial line insertion on an AIDS patient at Yale-New 
Haven Hospital. On Dec. 18, 1997, a New Haven Superior 
Court jury awarded Doe $12.2 million. The case has the 
potential to impact residency programs across the nation. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 

Law to increase minority numbers 
AUSTIN, Texas 
The UT School of Law may follow the example of UT System medical schools in efforts to increase minority enrollment, law school officials said Wednesday. The law school will use many of the same criteria that have bol­stered the diversity of the medical schools' applicant pool, said Michael Sharlot, dean of the UT School of Law. "Like the medical schools, we are deeply committed to achieving diverse student bodies and are presented with difficulty in achieving this surrounding the Hopwood decision," Sharlot said. In a system-wide conference this week, of1i­cials from the UT System's four medical schools reported a significant increase in the number of llispanies and African-Americans offered admissions to UT medical schools. The increase was achieved by de-emphasizing test scores and grade point averages in favor of a moro balanced examination of applicants' background, said David Jones. chairman of the admissions committee for the UT Health Center at San Antonio. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 

Panel discusses Super Bowl's impact 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
Most people aren't thinking about social stratification when the Super Bowl comes on TV. But that's just what they should be doing, concluded a panel of local sports celebrities and University professors who spoke to about 30 people Wednesday afternoon at Coffman Memorial Union in Minneapolis. The discussion, hosted by the Minnesota Journalism Center, touched on topics sueh as the perception of the Super Bowl as an upper-class event and the exclusion of women from professional sports. Kellie Gallagher, a for­mer Minnesota Vikings cheerleader, said she has sometimes felt uncomfortable around some men in the crowds. "There are always times people will look through their binoculars (at you) or make comments, but you just ignore them or get someone to take care of them," she said. Dona Schwartz, a journalism school faculty member, said the tendency to objectify women goes along with professional football. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl.. WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 16. 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Atlanta  48  
Boise  49  
q,~,~q@Q i) Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny . Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  ~ u Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Boston 27 Chicago 28 Cincinnati 35  


37  Dallas  64  35  Las Vegas  64  41  
25  Denver  47  16  Los Angeles 63  48  
24  Fargo  19  14  New York  34  33  
16  Helena  34  21  Philadelphia 35  32  
34  Indianapolis 35  25  Seattle  45  36  




Friday, January 16, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• SECURITY BEAT 

Marshall grant goes
JAN. 12 injury. 

7:25 a.m. A Lewis Hall resident was trans-JAN. 13 ported by Security to the University Health 12:10 p.m. A University employee reported Center for treatment of injuries sustained the theft of hi$ decal from his unlocked vehi· 

to Notre Dan1e senior
during a fall. ere while parked in the B3 
5:00p.m. A Stanford Hall resident was JAN. 14 
transported by Security to St. Joseph 3:06 p.m. A Morrissey Hall rasldenl report-By PATRICK McGOVERN Queen's University in Belfast. 
Medical Center for treatment of a sports ed the theft of CDs from his vehicle which News Writer She will study political theory 
with a concentration in minori­

Notre Dame senior Katherine ty politics. Beirne will look at 
Beirne has been named one of the role of political identity in 
the 38 recipients of the Northern Ireland.
Our Sensational Marshall Scholarship for 1998. "In Belfast I can achieve a Beirne was chosen from more hands-on experience 
Coffee 
continued from page I 
improvement to Dalloway's. 
After gaining Eldred's approval but still lacking offi­cial approval from Student Activities, Hinehold and Mukerjee, along with several otlwr students, decided to undertake the cosmetic improvements for Dalloway's themselves. 
A meeting was scheduled to discuss the surrounding mis­communication which eventu­ally ended in the termination of the two managnrs by direc­tor of Student Activities Georgeanna Hosenbush. 
According to Hosenbush, the termination of the student 
managers was  a  personnel  
decision.  
Hinehold  and  Mukerjee  

refused to comment on their termination. 
But tomorrow Dalloway's will continue without its for­mer managers and open its new chapter. 
"Dalloway's is back on board again and we hope stu­dents will support their peers and their efforts," Rosen bush commented. 
At Dalloway's, the menu will feature gourmet coffee, cap­puccino, espresso, tea and hot chocolate. 
As for food, manager Margaret Kensinger laughing­ly explained, "We'll offer stu­dents stuff that's not fried, after 6 [p.m.]." 
Food and drink will not be the only things students can enjoy. A variety of entertain­ment is planned for each 

night. At tomorrow's opening 
two campus bands, the Dunn 
Brothers and Hotel Prati, are 
scheduled to perform. 
"We're excited about having 
a venue where local bands 
can play," Holly commented. 
"Also, we're hoping to offer an 
open jam session or theatrical 
talent every Saturday." 
On Wednesday nights, poet­
ry reading and questions with 
the artist of the month will be 
offered. Carolyn Lateulere's 
artistic work will be on dis­
play this month with her 
question/answer session next 
Wednesday. Quiet music night 
is scheduled for Mondays. 
Thanks to the cosmetic improvements by Hinehold and Mukerjee, Dalloway's offers students a comfortable, lively atmosphere with many more improvements on the way. Plans for more furniture and commercial machinery are in the budget. 
With the new opening, Dalloway's needs to elicit stu­dent volunteers. Those who work for free will receive such perks as discount cards and free t-shirts. At Saturday's opening more information will be available about volunteer­ing. 
Things will be taken in stride as the new Dalloway's becomes an official coffee­house. For now, it's bring your own mug and get a dis­count until all the supplies are in. 
"It will definitely be a suc­cess," Holly confidently stated. "because we are open to what the students want and we are going to make all decisions with those suggestions in mind." 
Footprints ... 


A picture worth a single word. 

Diamond PriceQuotations .246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 

The DiaiDond Authority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



is accepting applications for: 
1998-1999 

Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 23, 1998. For additional information about the position or application process, con­tact Brad Prendergast at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 

Friday, January 16, 1998 
• NATIONAL NEWS BRIEfS 
'LET'S SAY I COM­MITTED THIS CRIME. EVEN IF I DID 
DO THIS, IT WOULD 
HAVE TO HAVE BEEN 
BECAUSE I LOVED HER VERY MUCH, 
RIGHT?' 
0.1. SIMPSON, TO ESQUIRE MAGAZINE 

Simpson: Esquire quote. 'out of context' 
LOS ANGELES 

O.J. Simpson said Thursday he was merely speaking hypothetically -"as part of a sce­nario of things"-when he told Esquire maga­zine that if hn had killed his former wife, he would have done it out of love. Simpson, in a rare livn broadr.ast interview, also told ESPN that tlw quotn has been taken out of context. In a session featuring vigorous exchanges lwtwoon Simpson and host Chris Myers, Simpson denied he made what many construed as an obliqun r.onfession when he told Esquire: "Lt£s say I r:ommitted this crime. Even if I did do this. it would have to have been because I loved lwr very much, right" Soveral times he vnrbally sparrml with Myers, showing more «'motion than hn did in his testimony during the civil trial, when his answers were generally brinf and rostrained. Simpson insisted several timns that his Jifn isn't as miserable as the nwdia has portrayed it, r:ontending that the pPople lw mnets are supportive. I Ie said he had to slwd sonw angor aftl~r the trials, and now all lw worries about are his children, Sydney and Justin. and his golf handicap. As for his stated intention to find tho real killer or killers, Simpson said hn has limited resources. "I can only do what I ean do," he said. "It's not like I'm sitting on my butt doing nothing." 
Herman denies corruption charge 
WASIIINGTON 

Labor Secretary Alexis IIerman denied alle­gations she sold her innuence while working as a White I louse aide and said Thursday she "will not be distracted" from her work by a Justice Dopartment inquiry. President Clinton defended IIerman when asked about the aeeusations shortly before the two appeared in New York. "I don't believe that for a minute," he said. "I want you to know that these allegations aren't true," I·Ierman told reporters during a brief appearance on the Labor Department steps. "My attorney ... has contar:ted the Justice Department and has told them that I will cooperate fully." Herman is the sBcond member of Clinton's current Cabinet under scrutiny by the Justice Department's public intp,grity section and FBI agents assigned to a campaign finance task li>rr:P. There also is an ongoing inquiry involv­ing lntPrior Secretary Bruce Babbitt. 
· ll1PM§tli@fiUNrn 

AMEX:Dow 673.49 
]ONES + 3.22 
Nasdaq:-92.92 1547.06 -1.70 
NYSE:JJ 497.96 -.Ll9 
S&P 500: 

Composite1547.06 Volume:7691.77 -7.21 682,032,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

~ ~)~1n~r I U ~I·U "I' 111 ~~~~~ s~~-~~~ I'BH I 
HliSO~ RROI\1-WTS  UlRRW  5,625  +2.125  60.71  
l'llRRr.L flll:"/t\1.-W'I S  CSCQW  6.00  +1.875  45.46  
l>llilL\LI'llWJ:R-WT <:ONT'L C1\N CO. INC  lli'W/WS CAN  1.7.' 38.688  +.OS +10.75  40.00 38.48  
ADVI\NTIC A ltES  1111\EW  .l.R75  +1.0  .H.7R  
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS  
METRO lil.OI\AL Mt:ll  :VHIMt\  :U75  -1.656  .12.92  
ANDREA ~.LF.CTRON VIDEONICS INC.  A~D VIJNX  12.3U 2.75  -5.313 ·1.125  :{0.14 29.03  
IIELIAHILITY INC.  RF.Al.  10.75  ·4.375  28.93  
I'WF.RWARE TECII  PWAV  10.438  -3.563  25.45  


R E A 0 Y forT A K E 0 F F 
Sen. John Glenn, 76, prepares to return to space after 36 years 
WASHINGTON 
Thiry-six years after he made histo­ry as the first American to orbit the Earth, Sen. John Glenn is being grant­ed an aged astronaut's fondest wish: one more blastoff and fiery ride to where "the view is tremendous." 
In October he'll become the oldest man in space. 
NASA officials have decided to grant the 76-year-old Ohio senator and for­mer Marine pilot's longstanding request, convinced by his arguments that he's the right test subject for research into the aging process. NASA called a news conference for Friday to make it official. 
His flight aboard the shuttle Discovery in October will come more than 36 years after his three-orbit ride aboard the cramped Friendship 7 cap­sule on Feb. 20, 1962. 
The flight allowed the United States to instantly catch up to the Soviets in the space race and turned Glenn into a worldwide symbol of American know­how and courage. 
"It was extremely dangerous at that time," Chris Kraft, flight director for the early flights, recalled Thursday. And the world's reaction was amaz­ing. 
"People were standing on the streets in Tokyo, all over the world, awaiting his safe return and listening to the operation as it took place," Kraft said. 
Glenn himself talked about how "the view is tremendous" and exulted about the "beautiful blue" horizon during his ride. As his capsule sped back down into the Earth's atmos­phere in a cascade of sparks and fire, he remarked, "Boy, that was a real fireball of a ride." 
Friendship 7 was aloft for four hours, 56 minutes, which at the time seemed an extraordinarily long ride. In recent years, though, Glenn has joked about having such a short time in space and has pressed continually for another shot. 
''I'm ready when they say "'go,"' he said. 
A hero of the book and movie "The Right Stuff," Glenn was elected to the Senate in 197 4 after a successful busi­ness career, but is retiring from Congress at the end of 1998. 
As news of the NASA decision leaked out, Glenn wasn't confirming anything. But he smiled as he said, "I look for­ward to discussing this in the future." 
Glenn, who will turn 77 in July, has said he has no qualms about putting his body through stresses that might accelerate the aging process. He has stayed fit. 
He will ny on a 1 0-day research mis­sion aboard Discovery, tentatively scheduled to lift off Oct. 8. 
Scott Carpenter, 72, who did the famous "God speed, John Glenn" countdown in 1962, said he was thrilled for the man who preceded him in orbit by a mere three months. 
New Englanders.....!prf!ce Jor s.eq;pnd blast 
··}{'' 
Associated Press About 78,000 power customers in Maine and about 
BRUNSWICK~ Maine·· ~~u~~~a~~ ~ee:eryfu:n s:6bijX:~.~~tt~u~i~~~~~lrN~!
Military cargo jets carrying about 200 fresh utility workers and badly need€:d equipment sjreal'Jled into Maine on Thursday as a new storm headed for the already ice-covered region. 
Forecasters predicted a nor'easter will drop upto a foot of snow in southern New Hampshire; northern Massachusetts and northern New York, with 3 to 6inches in har~-hit central Maine by Friday, . . . . .•. . . ..··· 
Thousands of residents ]ln the storm's path have beeri> said; ·· 
without power since last week's heavy ice. · Shortly after Gore left from the Brunswick Naval Air "Tenan Lane has no power since 1-8·98," read a sign Station to begin his tour, Air Force jets from North nailed to a.vtility pole along a twisting, ic~"cover_~~ road Carolina cll;!'ryingJresh r~pair and tre~ crews started 
in Cherryfield; · < ·••· ··•·· landing at t11e base. 
· 

Hampshire along with 2,000 in Vermont. President Clinton declared New Hampshire and six 
·. Vermont counties disaster areas Thursday, making them eligible for federal aid. Maine and portions of New York had ~Iready been declared federaldisaster areas, 
Vil:le.President Al (lore took a helicopter tour of Maine's worst~hit areas around Augusta and Lewiston. "ltis extraordin·ary to see it, feel it. and hear it." he 
Friday, January 16, 1998

Clone 
continued from page 1 
hn has nnithcr money nor for­
mal training in reproductive 
biology, Seed plans to legally 
donn a human bning, for a siz­
abln fen, by tlw middle of 1999. 
Cloning is no new thing, according to Professor David Lodge of Notw Dame's biology departnwnt. Cloning has been donn for years by simply "tak­ing an narly stage embryo and splitting it in half." If b~lth halvns of the embryo survive, this simple pnu:ess rnsults in gmwtieally idnntieal organisms, or twins. 
But SePd plans to clone human IH~ings using a new method, the "Nudear Transfer T!~chniqiH'," which Scottish sci­entists usf~d last year to done Dolly thn sheep. This nnw tech­niqun, Lodge said, "allows the creation of a donn of an adult organism. 
"It involves removing the nueleus from a c1dl from a matur1~ animal and putting that nudnus into an ngg cell whose nudtnis has been previously rPmoved," hn 1~xplained. 
Tlw ethieal implications of S!HHI's plans to clone humans in this way are enormous, Solomon and Lodgn both 
agn~ed. 
"That opens up wholn nnw applications of cloning," Lodge said of tlw new process. "Now it is possible to survey adult organisms and say. 'I likn that one ... I want to make another ol' those."' 
Solomon was astonished by Send's desire to "play God." 
Send said, in fact, that "God made man in his own image. I lis plan for man is that we will beconw one with God, and this is a significant step in that direction." 
"One would think that our first obligation is not to usurp the placn of God," Solomon said. "Now we are trying to control not just tlw conditions undnr which WI~ rnproduee, but 

~~ $500 off ~~~· 
on pwcha•e ofllLTIMATE PARTY P..\1\. Based nn a d•«•>unt of$~,, per pe•~nn Example ..t pcr.mn hl''ltel worn $~flfl dts( nunt or 8/lfl person c<>ndo· SlfKJ. $51!\1 d1w>unt oOer ;, I muted-CALI..T.UDt\} -OFFER 11:!9 
also the product when we reproduce. Should we have complete freedom to determine what kind of children we have and all their properties'?" 
In addition, there are several other problems, both ethical and technical, which surround this issue. For example, the Scottish scientists who cloned Dolly failed 277 times before finally succeeding. Many doc­tors have scoffed at the idea that Seed can carry it through. 
Lodge observed that while the death of so many sheep embryos is not Iiknly to bother anyone, Seed's plans to clone humans will definitely raise moral objections. 
"The techniques," he said, "while worked out for sheep, arn still highly experimental in that the success rates are very low. The teehnological prob­lems arc not solved, and solv­ing them would mean that thousands of human embryos would die," he said. 
Meanwhile, despite his own opposition to the cloning of human beings, Solomon did not see human eloning as a new thrnat to our soeiety's moral fiber. 
The Chicago Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

ICLIP&SAVE X ADRUNS1 TIME ONLY I LATE NIGHT 
I OPRING BREAK'9 BEOTI O[VMPICS 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE , 
~~::::~: 

Showing Friday & Saturday: 7;30 and 9:30pm ~, Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and TI1eatre 
THE BEST REVIEWED MOVIE OF THE YEAR 
"'THE SUMMER'S BIGGEST BLAST1" 
_.......___,
MA GREAT RLM! UNFORGETTABLE!" MJWO THUMBS UP!"
-·­
"HIP••• CLEVER••• AND WILLFULLY OUTRAGEOUSI"
--.IM..WY,__. 


CANCUN -MAZATLAN : I SOUTH PADRE ISLAND I I 1-81111-711-26114 I SURF OUR AWARD WINNING WATERS AT 
• :::W~de~d~ c~ _j 

Bomb 
continued from page 1 
Observer's advertising depart­ment, Hurley said. The caller also' linked himself to the Nov. 29 paintball vandalism. 
"Hello ... I come from Japan and I get very mad at Notre D.ame because they rnjected my application for acceptance," the caller said in the Dec. 28, 12:25 
a.m. call to The Observer. "So, I go around and shoot paintballs at ears. 
"If you thought that was bad, I'm going to blow up Notre Dame ... I get someone to target you," the message continued. "Peace out from Japan. Bye­bye." 
It has not been established that the boy was actually involved in the vandalism. 
Woo did not relate the specific contents of her message, but said it was "fairly generic ... about wanting to send some­thing through the mail." 
She added that she has no idea why the caller chose COBA as the recipient of the second warning message. 
The ease cleared and is now in the hands of the juvenile jus­tice center, Hurley said. 

Happy Birth.day Precious!! 
Take a break from 
O.P.R. and play someJenga. 
Love, Erin, Keys.ia; Megan, & Jeanine 
I 
I 

Half Court 3 on 3 Basketball (M&W) Nerf Football Co-Ree Water Polo WiHie Ball Indoor Soccer (M&W} Target Golf Ultimate RecSports Challenge Table Top Pentathlon Broomball (M&W} Kickball Racquetball (M&W) Kayaking 
Monster Dodgeball 
T~e Deadline for Entering a Team is Monday, January 19 
Friday, January 23, 1998 • 7:00PM-4:00AM • Joyce Center • 631-6100 All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <I:~ 

Late N1g t 0 ymp1cs Team Events 
. 
Co-Ree Volleyball 

' .. Friday, January 16, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 



Committee initiates 'res]pectful' dialogue 
'NETWORK' to be a forum to discuss homosexual issues 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Edimr 
In an effort to further discus­sion or gay and lesbian issues, the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs sent a letter to all faculty and staff mnmbers on Jan. 4, soliciting interest in an initiative called "NETWOHK: i\ WPkoming Place for Hnspnetful Dialogue." 
The lettnr statnd that the pro­gram will "prepam and educate members of our Notre Dame community who will identify themselves as persons willing to offer a confidential and respect­ful place of dialogue regarding gay and lesbian issues." 
"I think it comes out of what we perceive our charge to be," committee chair Sister Susan Bruno said. "We're responsible for the education of the campus and for keeping the topic of gay and lesbian issues alive. 
"Our gay and lesbian students know what it's like to be homo­sexual. It's the heterosexual community who we would like to try to help understand what it's like for those folks on this cam­pus and in the world, and the daily struggles and the feelings 


A LITTLE EDGY 
they have to face," she contin­und. 
According to the letter, faculty and staff members interested in serving in the program will be required to participate in two 90-minute sessions, which will take place during the second week of February. The program will begin after the first session. 
"In the sessions, there will be theologians, human behavioral scientists and students giving their own testimony. It will be like an orientation for any kind of intervention group," said com­
mittee member  and  Brecn­ 
Phillips  sophomore  Alyssa  
Hellrung.  

After volunteers participate in the sessions, they will be given stickers to place on their office or dorm room doors, so students seeking respectful conversation will know where to find support. 
"People tend to find their own role models. Chances arc there will he someone in their dorm that has a sticker on their door that they can go and talk to. Hopefully peop1e will find help through a networking of friends," Hellrung said. 
Presently, only faculty and staff members are being invited to participate in the program, but Bruno said that she hopes the project will grow to encom­pass interested students as well. 
"We hope to broaden [NET­WORK]. We hope to move it to RAs and to the general student population. Right now, we couldn't tackle everything. We want to keep the program small so we can better suit the needs of the people who participate," she said. 
The Standing Committee was formed in 1996 as a resource to the vice president for Student Affairs, currently Patricia O'Hara, to identify the needs of gay and lesbian students and to aid in the installation of campus­wide educational programming. 
RECRUITING DATES: February 2, 3, 4, 1998 alt Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
l 
Coffee got you a little edgy? It might seem like a great way to get energy but it's packed with caffeine, sugar, and tons ofother stuff you probably don't want in your body. General Nutrition Center has herbal energy products like Optibolic® Energel with Siberia ginsing for a nan1ral way to get real energy you need without all the junk you don't. 
So next time you need a real pick-up, don't go for the joe. Try GNC's 
Optibolic® Energel instead and take the edge off. 
• 
: Coupon #2846. Offer expires March 31st, 1998 1....---­
L------------------------------------------~ 


GNC LiveWell. 
For the GNCnearest you, calll~800~477~4GNC 
Mars.. life maybe from Earth 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Organic chemicals found 
in a Martian rock may be 
contamination from Earth 
and not evidence of life on 
the Red Planet, new stud­
ies suggest. 
But NASA scientists say 
the reports "don't shake 
our belief one bit." 
Laboratory studies at the University of Arizona, Tucson, and the Scripps ·Institute of Oceanography conclude that amino acids and carbon found in a rock from Mars probably got there after the.rock landed on Earth and lay on Antarctic ice for thousands 
of years. 
This disputes a theory 
led by two NASA scientists 
that found evidence that 
Martian microbes once 
lived inside the rock and 
left behind fossil-like blobs 
and organic chemicals. 
"Neither paper changes 
our original hypothesis," 
said Everett Gibson, a 
NASA researcher. "They 
don't shake our belief one 
bit." 
Gibson and David McKav, 
both of the Johnson Space 
Center in Houston, 
announced in August 1996 . 
that they had found evi­
dence of life in a meteorite 
from Mars. 
The rock, called 
ALH84001, was found in 
an ice field in Antarctica 
and has been identified 
chemically as originating 
from Mars. 
The theory that the rock 
once contained Mars 
microbes has failed to win 
universal support among 
experts and the new stud­
ies, to be published Friday 
in the journal Science, are 
the latest to offer alternate 
explanations for the lifelike 
chemistry found inside the 
rock. 
Warren Beck of the 
University of Arizona, a co­
author of one study, said 
his group analyzed part of 
· ALH8400 1 for organic car­bon, an essential chemical for life. 
He said there were four types of carbon found and most of it originated on 
Earth, probably from cont­amination that got into the rock while it wason the ice. 
But Beck acknowledged that his team found "a mystery carbon compo­nent" that could be extraterrestrial. 
"What we found does weaken their case, but it does not rule out the possi­bility for life on Mars," said Beck. "We have left the door open to the.re being extraterrestrial organic carbon in this roCk:'' 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• USe:l l::coks l:x:u;jht arrl rold 
• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback l:xloks in stock 

• 
D.Jt·-of-Print s..m::n Ser:vire: $2.00 

• 
foWraisalS large arrl !3fBll 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, January 16, 1998 
• POSTCARD FROM MEXICO 

What Happened While You Were Studying 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNESBURY 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9} 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad PrcndergaSI Managing EtiilOr Business Manager Jami~ Hcisl.:r Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heacher Cocks Advertising Manager. . ....... .... ] cd Peters Viewpoint Editor ..................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager...................Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor...........................joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Conrrollcr............................................ Kylc Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhc independent newspaper published by the srudcms of the Univer~iry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's C...ollege. It docs nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrrarion ofeither institution. The: news is reported as accurately and objeccivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Assisranr Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Phow Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commc:maries, letter~ and Inside Columns prcsenr the views of the authors, and nm neces­sarily rhosc ofThe Observer. Vicwpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone I ines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Bmincss Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Sy"ems  631-8839  
Spons  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EdicorNiewpoinc  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.cdu  
Gcncrallnformation  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu  

macnelly.com 
In the video the mother is dnad and lying on the ground. and her daughter, who does not look more than two or three years old, is standing over her with her arm nearly shot ofT. 
Bernadette Pampuch 

This, of course, will probably not be broadcast anywhere in the United States. We are notoriously famous for being able to stomach make-believe vio­lence in our eop shows and our movies, but not in real life. 
The history of Chiapas does not makn for a very good orw-rninutn television bite on CNN. and it will probably not be mentioned morn than in passing on your local news. It cannot bn summed up nas­ily on the sixth or sevnnth page of The Observer. sandwiclwd bntween ads for .JC Penny's and Macri's Deli. You will probably not talk about it at the dining hall tonight. 
Fifteen children, one baby, most of which are haeked apart with madwtes, and 30 adults trying to cover their chil­dren with tlwir own bodies does not make for an appetizing thought over dinner. 
The state of Chiapas. Mexico is thou­sands of miles away from South Bend. It is about a 20-hour bus ride away from my apartment in Mexico City, and my father still felt compelled to call me three times this week and warn me to stay away from the Zapatistas. I asked him if he really knew what the Zapatistas are; he didn't really know. In 1994, a band of masked rebnls rose against the military in Chiapas, and 145 were killed. The government blames the Zapatistas, the Zapatistas blame the government. and the only thing anyone 
remembers for certain was that the 
EZLN movement was born in January. 
This Zapatista National Liberation Army has spent the last few years trans­forming itself from an armed resistance group in the highlands of Indian farming communities into a political presence felt in most every state in Mexico. The Zapatistas laid down their guns a long time ago. 
Lately, they have been dedicated to peace rallies, marches on the capital, long flowery speeches and a foray into the Internet. The message is clearly peace and justice for the oppressed in Chiapas. These oppressed are members of the Indian communities that farm the land and make their living off of what they grow. They are also subjected to countless acts of violence, abuse, neglect and threats, either amongst themselves or by the Mexican government, depend­ing upon whom you believe. 
Subeomandante Marcos, leader of the Zapatistas. had been transformed into a folk hero around the world. Europeans have a particular fascination with him, and if you walk to the plaza in the cen­ter of Mexico City you can buy a pirated T-shirt with his picture on it for $2 or $3. He wears a ski-mask and smokes a pipe; very few people outside of Mexico can explain him as much more than that. His group of rebels are the only real opposition to the local PHI political party, which has been in strict control of Mexico for as long as anyone can remcmlmr. 
On Dec. 22. 46 Tzotzillndians were massacred at a refugee camp in the vil­lage of Aetnal. "Massacre" is the only word that can be used; machetes and AK-47's wore involved and children were hacked apart. The Indians all hap­pened to be part of a group called "Las Albejas" which sympathizes with the Zapatista rebels instead of the PRl and which demands human respect and dig­nity above all else. 
The PHI admits no responsibility, and blames other paramilitary troops acting 
~~ 
in the area. The government claims no 
responsibility and blames forces not associated with it. Tho right-wing in the capital of Mexico City quietly blames the 
Indians for bringing it upon themselves. 
My father seems to think that the Zapatistas are behind it. The U.S. gov­ernment says that the Zapatistas are gun-toting drug traffickers who should be abolished at all costs. The Zapatistas, who have a staunch anti-drug policy, blame the PHI and the government. In the confusion, with all the different points of view and conflicting opinions, it is easy to blame the very people who are trying the hardest to protect the unpro­tected. 
Not that any of this makes much dif­ference at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's; life goes on. basketball season contin­ues, classes begin. 
Here, in Mexico, l have to help pro­duce television news that will probably never be seen in South Bend, where children lay bleeding and dying on the ground and everything I learned about 
liberation theology and the Catholic 
Church's stance against it seems to 
mean everything and nothing at the same time. 
Forty-six people were killed without a weapon in their hands. They who fol­lowed Christ's orders of poverty, humili­ty and non-violenee exaetly were mur­dered as they ran through the fields of a coffee plantation, streaming. 
Maybe raising your voice against oppression is not such a bad thing at all, if it is the only weapon you have Then again, given the results, maybe it is. 
God only knows. 
Bernadette Pampuch (!:;Me '97) is a television news intern in Mexico City. She can be reached at bpampuch@lwt­mail.com. ller column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"only time can heal a 
broken heart, just as only time can heal his bro­ken arms and legs." 
-Miss Piggy 




VIE~VPOINT

Friday, January 16, 1998 page 9 
• CHICKEN SOUP foR THE OBSERVER • lETTERS TO THE EmmR 

The Secret of A Memory of a Notre Dame Man 
I was a pallbearer for my friend's accepted he said, "If you didn't get ment of community. The Notre


Success 
funeral last night. in this time I was going to have to Dame family caring for all, working 
The only thing I can remember call my Uncle Jerry." This was the to assist each other with the strug­And so another semester has begun. Many of about Notre Dame when I was a boy only name I had and Karl's mom gles of life. The Golden Dome, the us returned to campus last weekend with high was sometimes watching "This told me "you call him when you get championships and the "Rudy's"hopes for the upcoming months, and with our Week in Notre Dame Football" on there." After a few days I called this are just physical results and out­own personal goals and expectations about Saturdays after the cartoons were man whom I never met. He invited comes of this caring community. Mywhat we hope to accomplish before leaving over. I grew up in a blue-collar me to.dinner and we became friendship with Father Jerryagain in May. Whatever these aspirations may home in Pittsburgh where my dad friends. became what it was I was lookingbe-reaching the dean's list, excelling at a worked, went on strike and got I had so many ideas of what I was for and through him I began tovarsity sport, finally choosing a major -to us, laid-off from the mill. No one in my going to do during my time at Notre understand, be enlightened and dis­they represent an ideal. They serve as our own family ever went to college before Dame, things I would study, people cover what was unknown to mepersonal definitions of success. 

and we knew nothing more of Notre I would meet, the experiences and before. There are many things in Dame than it was Catholic and the revelations I would have. I sat in on my life today that are only possible old movie about Knute Rockne. My undergraduate classes so I could because of the lessons I learned sister and I went to Catholic grade feel what it was like to come here from and through him. These school and high school as did all the as an 18 year-old. I got a job work­instrumental lessons began slowly children in our neighborhood. I fin­ing in the infirmary as a nurse. I and continue to this day.
Jaclyn 
ished my undergraduate degree at had read Father Hesburgh's book Last night I went to Father Jerry's Duquesne University and immedi­that said "the president's office is funeral Mass and helped his family ately began to work. always open" so, on my second members carry his casket out of the 


Villano 
My life emotionally, intellectually, night, I went over to Sorin and church to be flown back to be spiritually and philosophically was introduced myself to Father Malloy. buried in the cemetery above St. lacking; it wasn't balanced and I I joined discussion groups, made Mary's Lake. I will visit him there in yearned for more, for some type of friends, read new things and went the spring and everytime I go back understanding. I felt that I wasn't to every event I could including the to school. Hopefully, in time I will Recently, I had an encounter that changed mature enough to grasp or accept snowball fight just so I could expe­smile but right now I miss him. I am my understanding of the definition of success, my life as it was in relation to my rience everything about this place so very fortunate to have knownand what defines a successful person. Over friends and peers. I decided over a that I hoped would provide me with him, learned from him, heard himChristmas break, my family and I embarked on period of years to pursue a gradu­whatever it was I was looking for. laugh, receive letters from him, be a cross-country trek, spanning eight days and ate degree to allow me to study and All of this was eclipsed by one married by him and to have beenthree time zones. By the third day, we were all gain some of these things that were man. When I called Karl's "Uncle his friend ...

growing restless and a little irritable, and we missing. I felt that Notre Dame was Jerry" and he invited me to dinner Father Jerry explained to me onestill had another day of driving before reaching the place for me to have this experi­he told me to come over to Moreau time that the Mass was the one our destination. It was at this point that we ence. I felt comfortable in small Seminary and I told him I didn't thing that made him "truly happy" passed a tiny town in Arizona, and my mother Catholic settings. I was successful in know where that was. He said, "You and that winning the U.S. Open orsuggested that we stop for awhile and look in these environments before, and I don't know where Moreau is?" I the most beautiful woman in the some of the shops that were spread before us wanted to belong to something that responded that, "I didn't know world couldn't make him as happyin the Spanish-style market place at which we was more powerful and greater where anything was" on campus as he was when he said Mass. I told had arrived. 
than me. Around this time, I read but now I can see that was a him that I didn't have anything in · When I had had enough of the crowds of an obituary about a dynamic metaphor for me as a whole at that my life like that. He wrote me aboutpushy tourists who had come from all over the Pittsburgh man and I can't remem­time. it and told me that he was sad for country to "ooh" and "aah" over expensive ber who he was but the last line of Through many hours of discus­me but not to view it as shame andsculptures and other little treasures, I left the it said he was "a Notre Dame Man" sions, drives, walks, Masses and let­to "get those words out of my nog­shops and found a quiet bench in the courtyard and that is just what I wanted to be. ters with Father Jerry Wilson I gin." He went on to congratulate meoutside. It was there that I saw a man seated I wasn't sure what that was though began to get closer to why I came to on my graduation by writing, "You on a large rock, quietly strumming his guitar. 

at that time. Notre Dame. !learned that it was are now a Domer, a Real Notre lie was a friendly man, who greeted everyone Over a long period of time filled okay to think and feel like I did, Dame Man." 

that he encountered, and took a genuine inter­with letters, phone calls, meetings that many things I thought were so I have a son now; his name is est in the few people that stopped to ask him and two failed attempts for accep­important weren't and that simplic­Nicholas Gregory Wilson Locot. He,questions about his music. He made his living tance I finally came to Notre Dame. ity holds many answers. I learned my wife and my memory of my in this courtyard, by playing his guitar, and I had never been there before and I that men can be caring and insight­friendship with his namesake areselling tapes with hand-made jacket covers to knew not one person on campus or ful for each other. I saw how the things that make me "truly happy" the occasional tourists who wanted to bring a in South Bend. I was 26 years old, pursuit for happiness through God because he was named after mysmall piece of Arizona home with them. 
alone, in debt and clueless what I doesn't always need a church or friend, Father Jerry Wilson, C.S.C., 

Not that very many people did. Most people was looking for. I had a name from holy water to achieve or find it. I a true Notre Dame Man. 
walked right passed him, ignoring his greeting, 
my friend Karl in Pittsburgh who learned the history of Notre Dame, 

shying away from a conversation with a person helped me with meeting alumni the buildings, the sports and the James Lucot, Jr., M.S.A. 1994who, in tattered clothing, was obviously strug­when I was trying to get accepted. personalities but underlying all of Carnegie, Penn.
gling financially. Others rudely snickered at his When I told Karl that I finally got these things was the common ele-January 7, 1998mediocre talent. The man took notice of these people, too, and he simply ignored them and kept on playing. 
O'Shau!~hnessy Due for Renovation

I spoke with him for awhile that day, and this man. the stranger who loved making music and entertaining others, taught me an impor­The return to Notre Dame The heating in the building is tant lesson. He was not a successful man, by after a three week break unpredictable, the bathrooms society's standards. He had little education, causes a student to examine are few and far between, and and even less money. Many would say that he his or her surroundings a the dimly lit hallways and class-was not even particularly talented. But while little more carefully. rooms are a source of shame. the "successful" people of the world were Perhaps there has been Why has O'Shag been so 
inside the shops choosing between outrageous­some painting done in the neglected?ly overpriced paintings, this man was happy to dorm. Maybe some new ~==I We know that technology and sit in the sunshine outside and do what he doors have been added or a comfort in classrooms is feasi­
loved the most. His dream was to make beauti­leaky sink has been fixed. ble. DeBartolo is a prime exam­ful sounds, and to make the people who heard But then one is unfortunate pie of what this university can them happy. At this, he was a success. enough to go to a class in achieve if it so desires. Where 
Because of this man. my beliefs about success 
O'Shaughnessy Hall. That's ~~~~~~~ are the computers in the class-and the people I define as successful have right, that building at the .. rooms of O'Shag? Where is the changed. I now believe that people are success­
end of South Quad that Arts ~~~~~ presentation software resources ful because of what they put into their lives, not and Letters students most "' for professors to use so that we what they get out of them. Wealth and material likely visit at least once a ft':::::::~q;~ can read their notes without possessions are not indicative of a life well­day. With all of the con-squinting at chalk scribbles on a lived. Grade point averages do not always struction that is presently h~~i~ forsaken blackboard? reflect hard work, determination and pers6ver­going on, one would think \1 I know the Arts and Letters ance. Monogram jackets do not make the man that someone in the admin-students take a lot of abuse from (or woman). istration would suggest a their friends in other majors,
The musician in Arizona lived by simple stan­worthwhile project such as but is it possible that the admin­dards. Follow your dreams. Spend your life the renovation of O'Shag. istration is doing the same doing what you love. Do your best to make oth­Going from DeBartolo to thing? Do they feel that comput­ers smile. Pay little attention to things of little O'Shag is like taking a leap lo!-~t===:::;tl$=:::=!!!!11 ers are of no use to a history
importance. As for those who would try to limit backward in time. Here ---_J major or presentation graphics 
or discourage you, simply turn your head and there are no clocks in the ____., useless in giving a lecture on 
keep on playing. classrooms, so it is impossi-philosophy? When it comes time I wonder how many of us would be "success­ble to tell if time has really to evaluate what new construe­ful" if we judged ourselves by these standards. stood still in this sorry tion projects will be coming up, I 
excuse for a Notre Dame L,_-~~-------.~------------' suggest a complete renovation Jaclyn Villano is a sophomore Arts and building. The classrooms are claustrophobia-inducing, Qf the classrooms of O'Shaugnessy Hall. 
Letters major and can be reached by email at and prison-like. When is the last time that the walls jaclyn.r.villano.l@nd.edu.Her column appears even had a paint job? Cheryl Asci every other Friday. Not only are these rooms confining, but they also con-Sophomore 
The views expressed iri this column are those tain desks which are uncomfortable, graffiti-covered Walsh Hall oflhe author and not necessarily those ofThe anachronims that my parents could have used. I mean, January 14, 1998 Observer. ·~~.--• ..s.e_rjqg§ly1 _d.of.SAl!lY.!?.!l.!l 4~~; .d.e.s]<.s.I}~~ .t~.?!'!l.C:':¥1!1.0.~.$'}! 1 ~ _,___ .~. "'"'' ...... •u-.• • , '· ...~·-... • 






ACCENT
page I 0 Friday, January I 6, 1998 




Museum Resources Making an Imp 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON Accent Writer 
S:
udents scrambling across campus to computer clusters at DeBartolo and bookshelves at tlw library n an attempt to boost thPir GPAs ovPrlook one of the most valuable academic resources Notn) )arne has to offer: The Snite Museum of Art. While many may ent1~r the building only f'or dass tours or movies, others realize that the Snite contains works of some of' the world's most influential artists. This afternoon, visitors can even enjoy a free buffet dinner there. 
As the Snite kicks off the new temporary exhibit "Singular lmprossions: The Monotypn in America," it continues a long history of providing the Notre Dame community with a unique visual componm1t to tra­ditional education. Liberal art curricula of every major can benPfit from the wide rango of nwdia, cul­tures and epochs represented, as well as the well-informed staff and printed educational material. For those simply seeking a reprieve, strolling through the galleri1~s provides both peace and beauty. 
From January 18 through Mard1 29, a uniquP opportunity to view the first romproiHmsive survey of' the monotypP in America is available to all. "Singular Impressions" comes f'rom The National Museum of American Art, Smithsonian Institution, and includes 65 works from the last century, and aro taken from both public and private collections. Homare Bearden, Jasper Johns. William MPrritt Chase, Frank Duveneck, John Sloan and Mary Frank are some of tho prominent artists featured. 
Both the history and beauty of monotypes are highlighted, as the exhibit shows how different artists have approached monotype since the 1880s, all working with a dnsign drawn or paintnd on a flat matrix such as metal or glass then transferred to paper. Only one strong impn~ssion of' the image msull<>. thus
,iil;,iltu,.
the name. ·~...;; 
This history includes events such as the 1915 Panama-Pacilie Exposition in San Francisco, where many West Coast artists were first exposed to the medium, and embraced this new tedmiqun that oiTen~d a spontaneous alternative to conservative mainstream academic training. Early artists found inspiration in French lithographs and Japanese woodcuts, and experimented with flattened forms. The movement spread through the world's major art centers like Paris and Flomne1~. but flourished around tlH~ United States in arnas like Provincetown, Mass. and Taos, N.M. as well. Since little training or equipment were required, curious artists could discover monotypc through word of mouth and then practice on their own. 
Interest in monotype revived in the early 1970s as graphic art and experimentation mowd center stage. Hydraulic presses and professional printing have replaced the informal and spontaneous usc of' spoons or the wringers on old washing machines. New printmaking workshops provided artists with the opportunity to expand monotypes to new, mural-like dimensions, while retaining an intimacy that the printmaking industry lacked. 
Both the early and recent eras are represented in the exhibit, as small, intimate monotypns contrast with their large-scale contemporaries, created by artists like Michael Mazur and Erie Fischl. 
The National Museum of American Art asserts that the monotypes ability to break barriors of medium is an additional reason for its new-found popularity, as postmodernism continues to challenge traditional forms. Its simultaneous identity as drawing, painting and print is now an attribute instead of a barrier. Exhibit-goers can examine the varieties of color, texture, surface and seale that made monotypn appeal­ing to both American artists and audiences. 
Four sections serve to organize the works: "American Artists at Home and Abroad," "Color Prints and Printed Sketches," "The Emergence of the Monotype," and "The Contemporary Monotype Phenomenon." 
Made possible by the William R. and Nora II. Lichtenberg Foundation and the Smithsonian's Sp1~cial Exhibition Program, this exhibit was organized by the National Museum of American Art, Smithsonian Institution. The Notre Dame presentation is supported by The Walter R. Beardsley Endowmnnt l'or 20th century Art, The Ashbaugh Endowment and Mr. and Mrs. John C. Hudolf. 
For further information call Gina Costa, Snite Curator of Edueation, at 631-4720. 

The Snite invites you to today's exhibit opening from 5-7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy West Gallery. Admission is free and food will be provided. Professor of Art Doug Kinsey will present a gallery tour of the show on Fri., Feb, 13 at 12:15 p.m. 

Friday, January 16, 1998 
page 11 


Movies, movies, 
• 

eSSIOn 


and more movies 


Here is the Friday and Saturday mouie schedule for Cinema at the Snite this semester. For a com­plete listing ofMonday and TUesday mouies, pick 
up a schedule at the Snite front desk. 
Januaty 16 and 1 7 Trainspotting 
i 
Januaty 23 and 24 Notre Dame Student /. _Film Festival 
1
i 
January 30 and 31 The Full Monty 
February 6 arid 7 Year of the Horse 
February 13 and 1 4 Washington Square February 20 and 2 1 Eve's Bayou February 27 and 28 Shall We Dance? Friday., March 20 The Nasty Girl and_ 
Dark Lullabies Saturday, March 2 1 · Yiddle with a Fiddle and The Garden of· 
the Finzi-Continis March 27 and 28 The Ice Storm April 3 and. 4 Career Girls April 1 7 and 1 8 Kundun 
I 
I I 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 16, 1998 
•NBA 
Big Country's 41 not enough in loss to Celtics 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

The Boston Celtics finally took a lead and even won a game, snapping Thursday night despite a Grizzlies-record 41 points by Bryant Reeves. 
The Celtics had not led since thn first half against Chicago on Jan. 6 -a span of 4 1/2 games. Thny took thnir first lead, 55­54, with 7:35 left in the third quarter and led once more before holding on the third time to send thn Grizzlies to their 12th consecutive loss. 
Hnnves broke the club record of 40 points set by Anthony Peeler and a personal best of 39 points set last year. in the sec­ond season for both him and the team. Heevns also had 12 rebounds. 
Antoine Walker had 22 points and 10 rebounds for Boston, while Chauncey Billups scored 13 points, tied his career high with nine assists and set a carcnr high with seven rebounds. 
The Celtics made just 41 per­cent of their shots to Vancouver's 51 percent, but grabbed 25 oll'ensive rebounds. 
The Cnltics trailed 71-65 in thn final minute of the third quartnr before scoring the next seven points to take their sec­ond lead of the game. They fell 
• NFL 
behind 78-7 4 before tying it at 79 on Andrew DeClercq's free throws with 6:36 left. 
Walker hit a six-footer and Reeves answered with a dunk to tie it 81-81, then Billups made a driving layup to give the Celtics the lead for good. 
Walter McCarty made two free throws, Reeves did the same for Vancouver, and Billups hit a 3-pointer to give Boston its biggest lead, 92-87. 
The Grizzlies opened the game with a 6-0 run and increased their lead to 27-13 by the end of the first quarter. 
76ers 106, Bulls 96 
Allen Iverson scored 31 points and the Philadelphia 76ers overcame Scottie Pippen's most productive game since his return to snap their 16-game losing streak to Chicago as they stunned the Bulls 106-96 Thursday night. 
Pippen had 22 points, five assists and four rebounds, but he clearly ran out of steam after making six of his first eight shots and scoring 20 points in the first half. He missed eight straight shots at one point and committed two turnovers mid­way through the fourth quarter when Chicago was trying to rally. 
Derrick Coleman added 18 points for Philadelphia, which 

Broncos begin preparation 
Associated Press 
DENVEH 

Having put some of tht~ maddening Super Bowl distractions behind them, the Denver Broncos held their first pm-Super Bowl practice on Thursday, a 90-minute workout that coach Mike Shanahan callnd "great." 
The Broncos emerged injury-free from Sunday's 24-21 victory over Pittsburgh in the AFC title game. and all players were full-go for the Thursday workout. 
"We had a great prac­tice with great concentra­tion." Shanahan said. "The tnmpo was really good. Wn began putting our game plan in. Our players came in to work, they weren't there to just go through the motions. I was really pleased with today." 
Shanahan urged his players to spend the early part of the week firming up travel and accommo­dation plans for family and friends. 
"We got a lot of the dis­tractions out of the way in the last couple of days," he said. "I think our play­ers feel a lot more com­fortable than they did two days ago. By that I mean, usually after the champi­onship game there are so many questions from so many people about tick­ets, rooms, when families should arrive -that type of thing. 
"At least, we were able to answer some of those questions so they could concentrate on the job at hand today. That's part of Super Bowl week and the Super Bowl hype, how to handle those distractions." 
The euphoria of winning the AFC title seemed to have lifted. 
"I think that's really over with," Shanahan said. "It was nice to cele­brate for a couple of days. Right now, our focus is Green Bay." 
The Broncos will prac­tice again on Friday and Saturday, then depart Sunday afternoon for San Diego. 
hadn't beaten the Bulls since Dec. 8, 1993. Clarence Weatherspoon added 15 points, going 11-for-12 from the line, Jim Jackson had 14 and Theo Ratliff and Tim Thomas added 12 each. 
Michael Jordan scored 20 for Chicago, but he and Pippen were the only Bulls in double figures. Dennis Rodman grabbed 20 rebounds, although 19 came in the first three quar­ters. Iverson, who has played some of the best games of his career against Jordan, shot 10­for-15 from the field and 11-for­13 from the line with six assists and two turnovers. 
He punctuated his perfor­mance by bursting around Jud Buechler for a driving layup on an isolation play with 4 1/2 min­utes left, then doing the same against Pippen with 3:23 left and drawing a foul. His free throw made it 100-83, and Phil Jackson pulled his three stars from the game with just over two minutes left. 
It was the 11th loss in 18 road games for the Bulls, who had their three-game winning streak snapped. 
Philadelphia won for the third time in four games. Of the Sixers' 11 wins, six have come against teams that were in the playoffs last season. 
Coleman scored 10 points as the Sixers steadily pulled ahead in the third quarter, in part because Pippen missed all four of his shots. 
Jackson drew a technical foul from referee Hue Hollins late in the period for arguing a 3-sec­onds call, and the free throw and a subsequent jumper by Weatherspoon gave the Sixers a 77-64lead. 
The Bulls made up ground early in the fourth, scoring the first nine points of the quarter to close to 79-76. But Philadelphia came right back with a 6-0 run, starting an 18-4 spurt that clinched the victory. 
Clippers 119, Nets 116 
Rodney Rogers matched his season high with 29 points to lead the Los Angeles Clippers to only their fourth road win of the season, 119-116 over the New Jersey Nets on Thursday night. 
Lamond Murray had 24 points and 10 rebounds, Darrick Martin had a season-high 20 points and rookie center Maurice Taylor had 10 of his 12 points in the fourth quarter as the Clippers snapped a four­game losing streak and improved their road mark to 4­18. 
Keith Van Horn scored 26 points for the Nets, but the rookie only had six in the sec­ond half and was a liability on defense. Jayson Williams added 20 points and 18 rebounds for New Jersey, while Sherman Douglas had 18 points and a season-high 17 assists. 
The Clippers' 119 points and 
55.7 percent shooting from the field were season highs, even though the team was playing for the fourth time in five nights. 
Los Angeles never trailed after taking the lead late in the second quarter but had some anxious moments down the stretch, missing four free throws in the final 18.5 sec­onds. 
A jumper from the right wing by Taylor gave the Clippers a 117-111 lead with a minute to play. A 3-pointer by Van Horn and two free throws by Kerry Kittles after a bad foul by Brent Barry got the Nets to within 117-116 with 19.5 seconds left. 
James Robinson missed two free throws but the Nets lost the rebound. Martin was fouled and made one of two from the line to make it 118-116 with 11.5 seconds remaining. Kittles drove the lane and had an open layup, but it fell off the rim. 
Taylor was fouled and made one of two free throws with live seconds left. The Nets had no timeouts and Lueious Harris' off-balance 3-pointer at the buzzer hit off the front of the rim. 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

~Ubbies sign Beck 
NEW YORK 
.. On one o~ tlie <Jays ba~eball owners hate 1ll,OSt, A;tlanta's Ryan Klesko and Df)t~qrt:~ B~bbyHigginson got big­money fou:r•yf:laf contracts as 79 play· ers filed Thursday for salary arbitra­titm;< ... 
.....• Kle~~o,. all i;lutfielder eligible for fte!'l agency after the 1999 season, got 
·· a .$201.5 mH1id1l,f01lr-year contract that PllYS ~~-$3;5 million this year, . Smillion in 1999; $5.75million in 
2 . . and $6;5 million in 2001. Higginson, lj.11 outfielder eligible for 
.. arbitrationfor the first time, received a .$1 Qmillion; four·y!lar deal that gives him a $100,000 signing bonus, $2.4 million in 1998, $3,8 million in 
·1999. $4.4 milli?n in 2000 and $5.3 million in 2001. 'pi . Many oftlle t9P.Players who had 
been eligible for arbitration settled even before filing this offseason. Late Wednesday night, pitcher Pedro Astacio and Colorado agreed to a $23.3 million, four-year contract. 
Among free agents, the Chicago Cubs picked up a closer, agreeing to a $4 miHion, one-year contract with Rod Beck that includes a $5.5 million team option for 1999. 
Beck, a 29-year-old right-hander, had 37 saves in 45 chances for the San Francisco Giants last season. He had spent his entire major-league career with the Giants, going 21-28 with a 2.97 EHA and 199 saves. 
Players who filed for arbitration will exchange figures with their teams Tuesday along with two players who accepted arbitration offers from their former teams: Texas right-hander Bobby Witt and Colorado left-bander Mike Munoz. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­

Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 

"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's new location and check out the best Spring Break vacations around. Don't taKe a chance with an unkown agency or some 1-800 number. Limited space available, so book now! Anthony Travel. Inc. Lafortune Student Center 631-7080 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Missing: WRISTWATCH lost just before semester's end Fossil -leather band/white face 
Please call Nicole @ 0565 
WANTED 

Wanted: Serious Rock/ Pop Drummer for live shows. We are currently publishing a CD and intend to promote it in the Chicago area. Call Mike at 634·0789 VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood Development Center. located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with chlidren, please call Thayer Kramer at 631·3344 (ECDC-ND) or Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC). Please join our fun filled days. 
1998 STORYBOOK FESTIVAL VOLUNTEERS NEEDED Saint Mary's College and the Early Childhood Development Center are co-sponsoring a Storybook Festival for young children (ages 2.5-6) on Sunday, February 8, 1998. The Storybook Festival will celebrate books and the worlds they create by bringing children inside those worlds through a variety of art, music, movement and creative dra­matic activities. Volunteers are needed to assist on the afternoon of Saturday, February 7 with set-up and on Sunday, 'February 8 during the afternoon and evening as greeters, storyroom volunteers, and to help with event clean-up. There will be a meeting for everyone inter­ested in volunteering (faculty, staff, on Tuesday, January 20, 1998 from 5:30-6:30 at the Haggar College Center Parlor, Saint Mary's College. For more information, please call the Saint Mary's College Public Relations Office at 284-4595 or the Early Childhood Development Center at 631·3344 or 284-4693. Please join us for this wonderful, enriching event which promotes lit· eracy and the love of reading! 
ADVERSTISING SALES INTERN­SHIP University Directories is hiring stu· dents to sell yellow page advertis­ing for the official campus tele· phone directory this summer. Commission based pay structure. Training program. Excellent sales & marketing experience. Call 1·800· 743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.uni­versitydirilctories.com 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 
FURNITURE for rent I safe call Dave @ 4·3006 House for Rent 
Two Blocks from Campus 4-5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for Summer, August for Fall. Includes Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and off-street Parking. 
MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED!!! Call 289-4712 
1 Bed room furnished apt in a home in good residential area. 10 mins from NO. Share kitchen. Security system. No smoking,drinking or partying. Postgrad student or faculty only. $ 400 per month. Security deposit $250, References required. Call 277·0189 after 3.30 pm 
2 Bedroom 2nd Floor Apt. $450/ mth. Short term 6 mth. lease. View of St. Joe river from 2nd Fir. porch. 1906 historic home, security sys­tem, walk·in closets, storage, off-street parking. Gas, electric, phone, and cable by tenant. Call Greg @ 288-2654 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK. 243·0658. 
8 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR 
NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FOR SALE 
Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM, Color monitor includes carrying case, manual, etc. Call Greg @288·2654 
Brass bed, queen size with deluxe orthpedic Mattress set and Frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862-2082 
For Sale: Convenient Condo living just a few blocks from Notre Dame. 3 bdrms., 2 full baths and access to clubhouse with pool and work out room. Corner unit with Contemporary flair. Call Trace Cole at 243·9565 for more info. 
TICKETS 
WANTED-NO vs MIAMI B·Ball tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258-1111 
PERSONAL 
Student Activities is accepting applications for LaFortune Building Managers 
(evening & weekend shifts). 
Also accepting applications for Information Desk Attendants. (Must be able to work a 10·2pm shift on Thursdays.) 
If interested apply at 315 LaFortune. 
two hour labs stink. especially when they should be easy 
no scrips work 
AIDS MEMORIAL QUILT IS 
COMING TO CAMPUS Febr. 6-8, 1998 If interested in vol­unteering sign-up Mon. Jan 19 in NO room of LaFUN at 7 PM or call Erin at 4-3857 
Will Smith should never again be allowed to sample from songs, especially songs that weren't that great to begin with. 
"Honor not happiness" is still cooler than "Unearned unhappiness." 
students, and community members) 


Friday, January 16, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS page 13 

• MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish swi0101ers hope to continue success in Kentucky 
ByMATTYUNG Notre Dame Invitational, the Jan. 24. one week of their Christmas continue next week. Sports Writer Irish swimmers and divers will 
To maintain and improve break training at Auburn "I think we have a really good 
again hit the decks and speed upon their swimming ability University in Alabama. 
chance at beating them 

Aftr.r sr.vr.n wneks of training through the pool when they and early season success, the Auburn, last year's National [Western Kentucky]. even since their last competition, the travel to Western Kentucky on Notre Dame swimmers spent Champions and the host of this though the meet is away," he 
I



1the Huddle lS 
I 
I --..-C-0-N-N-E-c-rr-E-D 
I I I I I I the 
Res 
Unlike the campus clu you to eat and drink 
In fact -We'll help 


ANY SIZE Fountain drink i111 Huddle Mart 79<~ 
25¢ Breadsticks from Gpm -1am 
Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture 
You are invited to be part of Faith Sharing Groups in your Residence Halls. 


Information and applicatioJns are in your Halls and Campus Ministry (631-5242) 
Rally Day: Saturday, January 17 12 Noon-3:00P.M. LaFortune Ballroom 0MPUS 

MINISlRY 
year's NCAA Championships, provided the Irish with a gor­geous facility for training. 




r-------------------------, 
During their training, theI I Irish also got the chance to I swim an informal meet against the defending National
I Champions. Junior Scott Zumbach, who
I 
has been having an exceptionalI year in the individual medleys and 200-meter butterfly,I expects the team's success to 
I
I Please Recycle The Observer 
: Campus Bible Study Returns 
I 
All are invited to attend Second Semester Bible Study 
Tuesday, January 20, 7pm 
Badin Hall Campus Ministry Conference Room 
Questions? Contact Father Al D'Alonzo at 1-5242 
BRING YOUR OWN BIBLE OR ONE WILL BE AVAILABLE REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
7 oz. Top Sirloin 9 oz. New York Strip Pork Chops Steak & Eggs Steak & Eggs & Eggs 
$5.49 $7.49 $5.49 
They're available all day long! But hurry in now because this special is available only for a limited time. 
423 S. Dixie Way ~ Roseland '·· ' . 
For a hm1ted time only at pari!Cipalmg restaurants. C1998 Perluns Rastaurants OperaMg Company L P 
said. 
The team feels confident in its progress over the break and expects times to drop. The Big East Championship in late February is on the swimmers' minds, but they have five dual meets to finish beforehand. Zumbach will get the opportu­nity to test his assertion next Saturday, when the team gets its feet wet for the first time in 1998 at Western Kentucky. 

• WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
• fENCING 

Weekend presents 
Fencers open spring season 
By ANTHONY BIANCO (Stone) at the Penn State meet. Siek. Placing tlfth at the same


challenges for Irish 
Sports Writer The team will eount on meet. sophomore ChariHs 

BY BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 
The 24th-ranked women's swimming and diving teams rl'tum homo !"rom a 14-day trip to llawaii to take on confer­ence foe No. 25 Miami and No. 21 Illinois in dual-meet compe­tition. The Irish will !"ace Miami tonight at 4 p.m. and Illinois on Saturday afternoon at I p.m. in th1~ Holfs Aquatic Cm1ter. 
Tho Ir-ish start the winter season looking to r1~peat as Big East champions. This weekend will give tlw team a good idea wlwrn it stands when it goes up against two ranked opponents. 
So l"ar. tlw Irish have fairnd wnll, going 4-0 in dual-meet action with convincing wins over Southern Illinois on Oct. 
II. Pittsburgh on Nov. 7, and most n~cnntly. llawaii and Iowa. 
The Irish swam to seeond place finishes at the Notre l>anw Invitational (Dec. 4-h) and tlw Hainbow Invitational (.Jan. 2-:{), finishing only bnhind No. 5 Michigan at both. Back in November, the team also had a good showing at the Minnesota Invitational and fin­islwd third. 
llownver. tlw Irish still havn tl11~ir work cut out for tlwrn lwl"orn they try to repeat as Big East champs in late February. 
Miami. which has finished second in the Big East for six consecutive seasons, was Notre Dame's closest contender last year when the Irish claimed the title. Notre Dame had to rally from 103 points down, before pulling away from the Hurricanes 661-547.5. Miami, looking for revenge, is out to prove that it will be a legiti­mate contender once again -this year. 
Illinois comes to the Holfs Center with an unblemislwd 8­0 dual-meet record. The lllini an d tlw I r is h are b o t h 3 -0 against common opponents, but the Irish (168.5) finished ahead of the Illini ( 112.5) at the Hainbow Invitational. In that eompPtition, the Irish also 
defeated  18th-ranked  
Wisconsin.  
TlHl  team  is anchored by  

sr.nior captain and frr.estyle swimmer Linda Gallo, winner of seven dual-mcr.t r.vents and six invitational complltitions and sophomore all-Americans Shannon Suddarth (breast­stroke) and Allison Newell (but­tr.rfly), who have picked up where they left off freshman year -winning stroke events as well as medley relays. Frnshman Carrie Nixon, who snt a school record in hnr first collegiate event in the 50­mnter freestyle, has also been a key contributor for the Irish, going undefeated in five dual­nwet races. 

Read The Observer. 

"News is goodfor you. " 
,..
~ 
Mrican American (AA)

c 11: ,. r r " "o • 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
and Hispanic (H) 

•Leadership Intern Programs• (LIP) Summer of 1998 
$2300.00 for 10 week program 
Leam leadership and community building 

Three elective Theology credits 
H AA 

Chicago Chicago 
San Diego Detroit South Bend (other areas) 
(Lexington) 
(Dallas) ( ) possible areas for '98 
(San Antonio) 
Sponsored by: Black Alumni of ND Hispanic Alumni of ND Center for Social Concerns Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
Applications available at CSC and OMSA Deadline for applications: Feb. 13th 
There will be a information session on •Jan. 21st • at the Center for Social Concerns 6:00 -7:00 pm 
Jackson and Stone to spark the Hayes also took fifth place at 
Tho two fall meets gave the rest of the squad. "There is a this year's first tournament. Notre Dame fencing team a lot of potential in this epee Along with senior John Tejada, chance to work out and get team and once the individuals the foil squad went undnfoatl~d ready for the rest of the sea­get going, the group's success at tho NotrP Dame meet. 
son. The Irish did just that and will follow," commented Stone. "If Charles can step up and were able to show for it, Tho women's ope(~ squad, John fenees well, along with sweeping their competition at with returning national cham­Stephane, our foil team can be the Notre Dame meet and, a pion Krol. should also be able as successful as it has been in week later, racking up anum­todo the job. the past," said Auriol. ber of individual victories "It was great to win last year, The women's foil team is just against powerhouses Stanford, but now I am ready for this as n~ady for the spring season. Yale, Princeton, and St. John's year. My hope is that I can Captai111-ld by Brown, the team at the Penn State Open. As the keep tho same focus and con· raekr.d up a 89·7 record in the spring season begins, the team centration that I had all last first meet, with Brown posting is now ready to continue its year," she stated. a perfect 11-0 mark. winning ways. Also returning is captain 'Til be loading a groat squad The team's arsenal is led by Anne Boos who started the this year and that helps a lot. all-Americans Carl .Jackson year with a perfect 1 7-0 record The goal will be to improve by and Magda Krol in opec, at the home meet. the end of tho year, but it will Myriah Brown and Sara Walsh "I think we are at the point be ditlieult to do since they arc in foil, and Luke LaValle in where we are ready for a big all good fencers," said Brown. sabre. challenge." said Hoos. The strong(-lSt event for the The men's epee squad will be The loss of four-time all­Irish should be sabre, led by led by Jackson and senior cap­American Jeremy Siek leaves LaValle who ended the fall sea­tain Brian Stone. Representing junior captain StephanP Auriol son with a secnnd-plaen finish the team last year at the cham· with a large role to fill. at Penn State. pionships, Stone and Jackson However, if last season was "Luke shows a lot of team finished the year 13th and any indication, he is definitely leadership and there is no 19th, respectively. They began ready to lead the nwn's foil doubt he is tho best sabrn the season back to baek. plac­squad. In the Midwest region· fcneer we have," commented ing fifth (Jackson) and sixth als he finished second only to Auriol.  
Spring Break Setninars March 7-14, 1998 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR Service Learning at one of 12 sites in the Appalachian region An ND tradition of service-learning L' ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities Read the work of Jean Vanier MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants Live with migrant families WASHINGTON SEMINAR Theme: Environmental Issues Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) Applications Available Now at the CSC SOCIAL CONCERNSApplications Due: Jan. 28, 1998  

---------~------­

Friday, January 16, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 


Marlins' Bonilla will 

Special to The Observer · ipate in postseason 1lll~star -
Diiss spring training
fo.otball g~mf;}s JaJ~r,.,:·,~,~.:00;;;,:,;i•!P"~

Three Notre Dame football month. tr ' players -offensive tackle lf'k Both Doughty Mike Doughty, quarterback 'Ynlplay h:tt Ron Powlus and cornerback Jail. 18 ill Maui, Allen Rossum -will partie-contest willhe ~~-•--c'~'"'-·'"' 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  J..EADERSHIP  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN' TAKE 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Florida Marlins third base­
man Bobby Bonilla will miss 
the start of spring training 
while he recovers from wrist 
surgery, but he may be ready 
in time for opening day. 
Bonilla will keep a cast on his 
left arm until early or mid­
February. The Marlins report 
for spring training Feb. 15, and 
the season starts March 31. 
"From what we've heard 
from the doctors so far, he 
should be ready for opening 
day," general manager Dave 
Dombrowski said. Bonilla had surgery on his wrist Dec. 17 and on his left Achilles' tendon in November. He said he'll be ready. for the regular season. 
"Seven or eight games in spring training, that's all I need," he said from his home in Greenwich, Conn. 
As part of a cost-cutting cam­paign, the Marlins tried to trade Bonilla this offseason. But there wasn't much market for a 35-year-old third base­man recovering from two oper­ations with a $5.9 million annual salary in each of the next three seasons. 

Interested in Helping Make Junior Parents W...eekend '98 a Success? 
join the Sophomore ]PW Committee! 
Questions? Call Sarah,at 4-0830 
(ANCUM I BAHAIMJ 
l.4 HOURS OF 
FREE DRINKS! 
7 nights from $299! 
Includes RT a1r, hotel. 2~ hours of free drinks 01nd weekly piiiny schedule of spr1ng break events! Organize 15 
freinds and EARN A FREE TRIP! 






Last Chance 
to Prepare for ·the 



April MCAT! 
SPW Invitations will he sent out on Monday,]anuary 19for all 
sophomores. Ifyour address has been changed or you do not want 
Classes starting this week! 
1/13, 1/14, 1/15, 1/22, 2/1 
an invitation sent to your home, 
Enroll today to save your spo~t! 
please contact Elaine in Student Activities at x4562 or Erin at 
Call today to enroll in the #1 MCAT prep course. 

x5194ASAP. 
Thanks, 
1·800-KAP·TEST 
SPW Committee 
www.kaplan.com 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 16, 1998 
behind the play of the Hoss mares: The team averages 15 finished it." a very good win against twins and Monty Williams. It steals per game and forces 22 Point guard Martin Ingelsby Hutgers on Sunday and we
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Tho oxecution in the final minute was even more impres­sivn, considering the Irish were out of time outs. 
"Tlwy were on their own out there and thHy reacted real well," MacLeod remarked. "From the beginning to end I thought wn wore playing like a tnam that is really enjoying playing basketball. This is a very encouraging sign and hopnfully something that we can build on. 
"What the fans saw tonight hnre was one tromendous bas­kotball game," MacLeod contin­ued. "This was college basket­ball at its best." 
Tho two best players on the floor, (;arrity and West Virginia's Damien Owens, gave tho fans what tlwy wanted see and certainly proved that they are two of the best players in the Big East. 
Garrity finished with 27 points (! 6 in the second) on 11­for-17 shooting including 2-for­4 from three-point line. The senior also added 10 rebounds and thrno assists. Owens led tho home tnam with 22 points on C)-for-22 shooting and added night rebounds. 
"Pat had a big gamo Sunday and he came right back likn an MVI' and had another big, strong game," MacLeod com­mented. "lin had two fouls in the first four minutns but playod thn next 14 minutes without picking up his third which was gn~at." 
Tlw win was tho first Irish win ovnr a ranked opponent since Feb 17, 1994, wlwn they def'eatnd the 22nd-ranked Marquette in Milwauk<~e 
Dan R. Hill 
Attorney,,
-~.'~". ~. 
DUI, immigration, contracts South Bend 246-9999 

also marked their second con­ference road win of the year, something that has also been a rarity for the program. 
The Irish jumped out to an 11-4 lead before West Virginia battled back to take a 18-17 lead mainly behind its defense that forced 21 turnovers and had 12 steals. 
Turning in his most produc­tive game of the year was Derek Manner. The senior co­captain had nine of his 15 points in the first half, helping the Irish hold a 36-32 lead at the break. Manner was also affective on the glass hauling in 10 rebounds including three on the offensive end. 
"Derek stepped up and it was a gutsy performance," MacLeod said. 
Junior guard Antoni Wyche scored four of his eight points early in the second half as the Irish opened up a seven point lead. 
But the Mountaineers came roaring back with an 18-4 run. Greg Jones came ofT the bench and dialed long distance on consecutive trips during the run. 
Notre Dame also had trouble keeping West Virginia off the offensive boards, especially Brian Lewin. The center had nine offensive rebounds leading to most of his 14 points. As a team, the Mountaineers totaled an eye-popping 1 7 offensive rebounds. Its work on the boards and the tremendous team defense helped West Virginia overcome its 39 per­cent shooting compared to Notre Dame's 58.5 percent shooting. 
Turnovers are nothing new to West Virginia's opponents. Its defense can give guards night-turnovers per contest. But the Irish didn't fold, even when they found themselves down by seven. 
"The pressure was intense, particularly in the second half," MacLeod explained. "When they realized that we weren't going to go away, they really cranked it up. What we did was not an easy thing to do and we kept our wits and kept our composure and made the big plays." 
Garrity again displayed why he was selected pre-season Big East player of the year. The Colorado native scored 10 points in the last 10 minutes putting his team in position to win. 
"Pat was on fire and was rolling big time," MacLeod said. "He carried us and Keith was forced to deal with most of the pressure as he was given the responsibility to break the press, sometimes by himself. The freshman turned in a solid performance with five points and eight assists compared to just five turnovers in 35 min­utes of play. 
Friel did not only produce for MacLeod in the final seconds as an offensive spark off the bench, but also made the most of his 20 minutes, scoring 11 points on 4-for-6 shooting, including 2-for-4 from behind the arc. 
Notre Dame snapped its los­ing streak with a home win over Rutgers, and MacLeod was hoping to get things rolling. 
"This was a tremendous win in light of the fact that we had were able to back it up with a good road win," Mael.eod said. "We've struggled on the mad, and this ~as a real gutsy per­formance. 
The Irish will next travel to Seton llall for another confer­ence game on Saturday against the 8-7 (I -3 in the Big East) Pirates. The team will be try­ing for its third conference road win this season after totaling just two in the past two seasons. MacLeod hopes tho momentum gained last night will carry over to Saturday. 
"This was a tremendous boost for our team in light of the fact that we lost thren in a row and it appeared we were going sideways without a direc­tion," MacLeod commented. "I think right now we do have a direction." 


TITANIC (PG-13)DIGITAL 12:00 4:00 8:15 • FALLEN (R) DIGITAL 1:15 4:15 7:00 9:40 HARD RAIN (R) 
12:15 2:30 5.00 7.30 945 
GOOD WILL HUNTING (R) 1:30 4:30 7:15 10:00 FIRESTORM (R) 
12:30 2:45 5:15 7:40 9:50 MOUSEHUNT (PG) 11 :45 2:15 4:45 5:50 TOMMORROW NEVER DIES 
8:30 
SaVSun Mat. in [brackets] AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) 
[1 :OOJ  4:oo  ioo  9:50  
MR. MAGOO (PG)  
[2:45]  5:00  7:30  9:30  

FULL MONTY (A) [2:00] 

Summer Service Projects '98 
LAST Info Ni2ht: Weds. Jan. 21st 7pm at the CSC 
DEADLINE: January 23rd 
Applications are available at the CSC (Sign up for an interview, too!) 
-8 weeks ofservice-learning -$1700 Tuition Scholarship -3 elective Theology credits 
Questions??? 
Call Sue (1-7867) or Erika ( 4-1494) 

Friday, January 16, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• TRACK AND fiELD 


Weekend invitational will test runners' talent 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's track and field teams will use this weekend's meet at Purdue to test where they are in terms of talent and develop­ment. 
Purdue, Ball State and Indiana State are among the schools competing in the 
Purdue Invitational, Notre Dame's first meet of the indoor track and field season. The women compete today and the men will kick off their season tomorrow. 
"This meet will give the kids a chance to get started and see where they're at in terms of their conditioning," said head coach Joe Piane. 
Last year, the Irish showed improvement in their second 
year in the Big East. The men's team placed second in both the indoor and outdoor Big East championships after two third place finishes in 1996. The women improved to sixth place in the indoor and outdoor Big East meets. 
Notre Dame's track and cross country programs produced 12 all-Americans last year. "I don't think anyone else can boast that," said Piane. "Also, our men's distance medley team was one second off the American record. 

"Our first goal this year for both the men and women is to do well at the Big East meets in the indoor and outdoor season." 
Captains of the men's team for 1998 are seniors Errol Williams and Jason Hexing. Williams was a semi-finalist in the 110-meter hurdles at the NCAA outdoor championships last season and a top sprinter and hurdler in the Big East. Hexing, a long distance runner, is an academic, cross country, and indoor and outdoor track all-American. 
Women's captains are Berit Junker and Janel Kiley. Junker, who has two years of eligibility remaining, is a two-time all-Big East selection and has run the 800-meters at the NCAA out­door track and field champi­onships. Kiley, a senior, took 13th in the 5,000-meters at last year's Big East indoor champi­onships and 15th in the 10,000­meters. 
Distance coach Tim Connelly has two goals in mind this sea­son. "To do well in the Big East conference and see what we can do on a national level. The bulk of our athletes are fresh­men and sophomores, so there is a lot of inexperience." 
Top women's distance run­ners should be JoAnna Deeter, Alison Klemmer, Patti Rice, and Nicole LaSelle, some of whom are capable of qualifying for the NCAA championships. On the men's side, cross-country run­ners such as Rexing, Mike Conway, Scott Grace, Jim Pilla, and Antonio Arce should lead the team. Most cross-country runners will not race this week­end. 
"We just want to see where we're at," said Connelly. "You can really tell a whole lot more under competitive situations than in practice." 
In the sprints and hurdles, the men and women should be strong in the 400 and 500 meters, and the men also in the hurdles. Top expected contrib­utors are Junker and Nadia Schmiedt in the 400 to BOO­meters, Carrie Lenz, Chris Cochran, and all-American Danny Payton in the 200 to 400-meters, and Williams in the hurdles and sprints. 
"Our primary goal this season is to improve on last year and make the finals of the Big East championships," said John Millar, coach for sprints and hurdles. "This weekend, we're trying to let a lot of people get a chance to compete and get a handle of where we're at." 
The strengths among field events should be the pole vault because of two-time Big East champion Mike Brown, high jumpers Dan Frigo, Kelle Saxen, and all-American Jenny Engelhardt, and triple jumper Angela Patrizio. 
"Our main goal every year is the Big East. As a field event crew, we're pretty young, but we've got some good talent," said jumping and throwing coach Scott Winsor. "This meet at Purdue will be kind of a benchmark for us." 
Piane and the rest of the track and field program will have a better idea of what to expect this season after this weekend. 
Every Major Every Degree Every Graduation Date 

I 998 Summer/llilternship Job Fair 
Sponsored by Career & Placement Services Thursday January 22, 1998 I:JOprn -4:30pm Sports •ieritage Hall 
Joyce Center Concourse 2nd Floor 
Bring yc,ur resume! Meet with representatives from the following companies 
360 Communications AIG Life Companies Allegiance Healthcare Corporation Allstate American Express Financial Advisors Amoco Corporation Amway Corporation Andersen Consulting Anthony Travel, Incorporated Arthur Andersen Associates Information System Bane Once Consumer Financial Services Baxter Healthcare Corporation BOO Seidman, L.L.P. The Bradford Group Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway Camp Sweeney Cargill Compaq Computer Corporation CIGNA Corporation CNA Insurance Companies 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Corporate Staffing Resources 
Dana Corporation Spicer Axle Division 
Deloitte & Touche L.L.P. 
EDS 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car 
Ernst & Young L.L.P. 
First Source Bank 
Footlocker 
General Mills -Sales Division 
Hewitt Associates L.L.C. 
IKON Office Solutions 
International Foundation of Employment 
Bendit Plans 
J.C. Whitney John Hancock Financial Services Kemper Insurance Companies KPMG Peat Marwick L.L.P. Meridian Capital Advisors Mobil Oil Corporation 
Northwestern Mutual Life -The McTique 
Agency 
Norwest Financial 
Novus Services 

PNC Bank Price Waterhouse Sears, Roebuck and Company Software Architects, Incorporated State Farm Insurance Companies 
SYSCO Food Services 
Target Stores 

Technology Services Group 
Tellabs Operations, Incorporated 
TRW Space & Electronics Group United States Navy University Directories 
Walgreens Company 
• 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Irish-Gophers rivalry renelVed 
repHat their pnrfnet conference 
record last season, holds thn 
top spot with a perl'1~ct 7-0 in 

W. Hoops 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Spons \Vrircr 
Tlw Notrl' DamP nwn's tl'nnis 

!Pam is tirl'd of SPPing crisp 
whit!' shirts Pmblazonnd with 
Nl> on tlw otlwr sidn of tlw rwt. 
AftPr fall invitationals and 

months of rigorous two-a-day 
prartit'Ps. tlw Irish arP rPady to 
takl' on tlw gold and burgundy 
of MinnPsota in thPir sPason 
opPrH'r Saturday. 
"Tiwy'vp playPd Parh otlwr Prwugh," said II th-yPar roach Hob Hayliss. "\\'p'rp rnady to play a !Pam with a diiTnrPnt Pmb!Pm." 
Faring thl' (;oldPn Goplwrs, ('liiTPntly rankPd No. 36, will bn a giant first stl'p for tlw 2:kd­rankPd Irish. 
llownvPr. thPrn is much morn at stakn than adliPving a good start. AftPr losing two r.onsncu­tivn VPars to Minru•sota in tlw NCAA HPgion IV Championships and splitting tlw last four meet­ings, a fil'r!'l' rivalry has IHwn Pstablislwd. 
"It's a tough match to opPn with." sophomorp Hyan Sarhire said. "It's a big rivalry that's datl'd bark. ThPrl)'s some rPVPngt• tiH'rl'." 
To Parn bragging rights, Notrl' Danw is rt>lying on all asJwl'ts of tlw !Pam. 
"Wp'rp rPally WPII-balaneed," said Bayliss. ~vho has !Pd tlw Irish to SPVI'n straight NCAA tournamPnt appParancPs. "TIH•rp's not on!' part that's lwttPr than any other. WP'vn got a gn•at ro;npPtitivP linn­up." 
Although Pl)Ually balanrPd, tlw scalP tips towards SarhirP, last year's rPgional rookie of I lw ypar. 
S~rhirl' is nationally rankPd No. If> and will play tlw No. I position. Tlu· (>-foot-(> proud ownPr of a I I :i mph snrvP. will fan• additional attention and prPssun~ this yPar al'tl'r last Sl'aSon's SU!'!'I'SS. 
"It 'II lw a I i It IP touglw r for him this yPar," Hayliss said. "It's likP lw has a target on his bark whPn lw walks onto tlw rourt." 
Hut rwitlwr roach nor playPr haw worriPs that SachirP will lw unabiP to dodgP tlw bulll'ts. 
"Of all tlw guys I've eoadwd, lw wants it as much as any­ont>." Bayliss statPd. "I'm not afraid for him." 
"I was a surprisl' last yPar. Now pPopiP know my name," Sarhirn said. "I take it as a rhall1•ngP that will only lwrwfit 1111' on till' rmrrt." 
\Yith !\·latt llorsPIY sidn-lirwd aftPr wrist surgpry. thl' Irish will nPPd to bPrll'l'it from tlw No. 4-f> positions of Hrian I' at IPrson. l>aniPI Hotlrschild 
CREAM 2(R) 1:05, 3:40, 7:00, 7:55, 9:40, 10:35 HOME ALONE 3(PG) 12:40, 3:00, 5:25 
NAMERICAN WEREWOLF (R)12:55, 3:15, 5:35, :50, 10:10 
TAR KID (PG)1:1o. 3:30,5:45, s:oo, 1020 
AG THE DOG in DTS (R) uo. 3:2s. 5:5o. s:15. 10:35 MISTAD in DTS (R) 12:40,3:45,7:05, 10:15 
FOR RICHER OR POORER (PG-13)1:15, 4:00, :15, 10:00 
FIRESTORM (R) 12:50, 3:05, 5:15, 7:25, 9:35 HE POSTMAN (R) 12:45, 4:25, 8:05 *No passes 

and Erir Enloe. 
ThP Patterson-.lakub PiPtrowski combination, nation­ally ranked No. 5. are also a sizable threat whieh will most likely rattle the Golden Goplwrs. 
"Tiwy'vp worked hard over bn~ak and are technically imJHOVPd," Bayliss stated. "Tiwy're a lot sharper and bet­tPr." 
Again Ilorsley's absence will bP appar·Pnt in the doubles matrlws. With a probablP PiPtrowski-PattPrson victory, tlw Irish arl' dPpnnding on at IPast lllle of the other twH dou­bles teams to win. 
A Sachirn and Andy War·ford or Hothschild and Matt Daly win will bP important for thn Irish to split thn singles and win the match. 
Despite ranked 13 plaees highnr than Minnesota and fin­ishing last regular season 16th. the Irish may not have the apparPnt edge. 
"They're really a much better team than their ranking shows." Bayliss eornmentnd. 
Minrwsota lost three top play­ers to graduation hut received thrPP fornign players to com­
pensate. 
"It's a big threat because we really don't know a lot about 

the three  new guys,"  Sachire  
said.  
Jose  Duenas,  one  of  the  

strongest ·Golden Gophers isn't just an impaet in Minnesota. but in both North and South America. Duenas eame to Minnesota as onn of South America's top players. 
Fellow Gophers Tom Chicoine, who is onn of the top players in thn country, and Tyson Pen·y, with a 120 mph serve. also threaten the Irish. 
Perry's lightning serves may hurt the Irish, but the fast Minnesota courts ean now be factored out. 
Notre Dame has praetiend all week at the South Bend Racquet Club where the courts arc similar to those of Minnesota. 
Preparing in every way possi­ble, the Irish arc confident they'll out-compete their rivals. 
"As a whole we're a very competitive team," Sachirc said. "We get fired up and play with more desire than most teams. I like our chances." 
continued from page 20 
Aftnr losing to the 15th­ranked Badgers, the Irish hav1) come back just in time to take the brunt of the confnrene1~ schedule by storm, winning their next seven games by an average of 19.6 points. 
No one has been able to takn more advantage of the team's winning ways than freshman center Huth Hiley. Hiley, recently nar111~d Big East eo­rookie of the week, elinchnd her third consecutive double­double with 2lJ points and 12 rebounds in a 86-78 win ovnr West Virginia on Wednesday. Hiley leads the Irish in field goal percentage, blocked shots. and rebounding. 
"I can't remember the last time we started a freshman. and this year we're starting two," McGraw remarked. "I don't think sinee I've bnen horn that we've started a frnshman post player unless then~ was an injury or something. Huth is delinitely the first, and certain­ly the biggest contributor." 
Currently. tho Irish are in a three-way tie for second placn in the Big East Six, along with Boston College and Villanova. Connecticut, in an attempt to Big East play. In tho Big East SIWilll, Miami. Syracus1~ and Hutgnrs hold anotlwr threl~­way tin for the top spot in tlw division with rn1:ords of' 4-3. 
Last s1~ason, Notn~ DamP hnld ofT a second-half rally by BC to dofnat th1) Eagles at Clwstnut llill by a scorn of (>I­
57. Fornwr Irish playnr Beth Morgan wnnt 4-for-4 from b1)yond the are for most of Jwr game-high 20 points. whiln current junior guar·d Shnila M c M i II~~ n scornd 1 I points. Latnr on in tho s1mson, Morgan Jnd five playnrs in doubln fig­ures as tlw Irish dnfnat1~d tlw Eaglns at tlw Joycn CIHllnr by a Iopsidnd scorn of 91-(>4. 
Ilowevnr. McGraw 1:an SIH~ somn difTnrnnces betwnnn last season and this one. 
"The Wnst Virginia win was important for us because tlwy were right behind us in thn standings with thrne lossns. For us, we really n1~ed to take it orw game at a Limn b1~causn nvPry gamn's going to bn a struggln for us dnfensivPly. I think we hav1~ a lot to work on. and wn just want to go out to Boston Collegn and play well." 
The Irish and tlw I~agles tip 

of'f' Saturday at 7 p.m. in Boston College's Contn Forum. 
MANY ITEMS ON SALE TO WELCOME YOU BACK: 
NOTEBOOKS, DISKETTES, CALENDARS, CLOTHING, BACKPACKS AND MORE. 
AND DON'T FORGET YOUR TEXTBOOKS! 
YOU ALWAYS SAVE BIG WITH USED BOOKS! 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
-6316 
. 

Friday, January 16; l99Bi 
page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

DAN SULLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DEBUNK 11-\E. 50-CALLED 
HUe,5LE. 
TE.LESCOPE 
LATER TODAY. 
) 


DILBERT 
I'l"\ GLAD THE "SKEPTICS A550CIATION" SENT YOU TO DEBUNK ~y RAT'5 CLAII"\5 OF ESP. 

..0 
...
... 
0 
<J 
"' 

CROSSWORD 
THE OTHERS DON'T GO OUT MUCI-\ 5INCE. THEIR Bl\0 E'X.PERIENCE5 /l..'O ;JURORS ON TI-\E O.J". SIMPSON TRIAL . 
ACROSS 30 The skeptic 54 James Russell Lowell, for one
1 Kind of wrench 32 Hairy-chested 55 Freshens, in a
1 Venomous, as a 33 With the worst waysnake consequences 56 Bow out 13 Dowell 35 Convictions 57 Illegal race track14 Not real 
36 --Foods, Inc. workers 16 Reducer 
37 Frequent 58 Secret fraternity 17 Eavesdropped 24-Down subject 
19 With 49-Across, 38 Picture 
DOWN
underlying 
39 Public relations 

theme of 1 Put on
interpretations

24-Down 2 "Goody!" 
40 Undermine21 Prefix with stasis 3 Desire 41 Vituperates

22"--only" 
4 Wind-up toys? 
43Gift-­5lncessantly23 Appropriate, in a 
way 
47 Site of &Arctic-­
25 School subj. temptation 7Very much
26 Hall of fame 49 See 19-Across &Climb
28 Brine-cured 52 Nice work if you cheeses can get it 9Wallop 
10 Some investors' income: Abbr. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Pipe part 
12 Truthful qualities 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 

Aries:Today you may feel self­conscious about your importance in the lives of others. Be helpful and considerate. A small kindness makes a big difference to some­body else. 
Taurus:A hedonistic mood threatens to drag you away from your usual moderate behavior. Give in to the spirit, but try not to make it a habit. You might consid­er using this sudden energy to try a new sport. 
Gemini:Turn your focus inward to the issues and moods of your domestic life. Chores must be done, bills paid, personal space renegotiated. Consider how things will look if you rearrange the fur­niture. 
Cancer:This is a busy day for details. You are in your element fine-tuning a plan, or attending to the minutiae of a system already in motion. Time flies when you're having fun, but remember to stop for a rest at some point. 
Lco:Today your mind is occu­pied with thoughts of financial security. Tally up your assets and calculate how long they'd last if you retired tomorrow. You may still have a lot of work ahead of you to get where you want to go. 
Virgo:Expect to achieve great things today. Your best activity might be related more to fun than to work. Be careful not to overindulge in your pursuit of a full and perfect experience. 
Libra:The weight of your work­load paralyzes you into inaction. You may not get much done, but at least' you won't be making any mistakes. All you have to do now is live with the shrill voice of your conscience. 
Scorpio:You connect with others who share your interests or goals. Set the tone by being the generous friend or gracious host. There is room for all opinions today. 
Sagittarius:Your ability to per­suade people comes in handy today. By way of your reputation, status. or just plain charm, you may have to force a reluctant party into a state of agreement. Be gentle and civilized when pushing. Capricorn:You are the model employee today -organized, pro­ductive, cheerful. If self-employed, you are the model boss as well ­eager to reinforce positive behav· ior. Reward yourself with an effi­cient. economical treat. 
Aquarius:You enter a time of rebirth and regeneration. Change may hurt a little, but think of what you are gaining rather than what you are losing. When this is over, you may kick yourself for not doing it sooner. 
Pisces:Do not presume too much about others in personal relationships. There are things you have yet to learn, and things you will never know. Do not be the first to laugh -the joke may be on you . 
Wanted.· Reporters, pho­tographers and editaors. join The Observer sta 
.. 
15 h\ctress Laurie of "Roseanne" 18 Parts of meeting rooms 20 Hairy-chested 
24 Theme of this puzzle, with "The" 
26 The believer 
27 Spanish stew 
29 Object of March 
celebrations 
30 Made more precipitous 
31 "Double Indemnity" novelist 
32 Phlebotomy target 
33 Defensive ditches 
34 Land of peace and simplicity 
35 Heaven 
37 Relevance 
39 Bothersome bed mate 
42 Critical 46 Mourning sites 43 Fieri facias and 48 Student of 
others Seneca 44 Statistical bit 50 Give a wave? 45 It's put away for 51 Essay's basis 
winter 53 Kind of gun 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available t>y touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-56!i6 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 

r--------------------------~------~---~--­
-




SPORTS Weekend 
page 20 

Keith Friel hits 
a last-second jumper for win 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Ediwr 
After a thnw game losing stn~ak including two home confenmce losses, the men's basketball t~~arn needed sonwthing to get its season back on tlw right track. 
llead coach John Mad.eod could not have askml for a better win to do prerisely that. Behind another all-star perfor­mance by Pat (~arrity and tho last second heroies of Keith Friel. the Irish improved their record to 9­!i and 3-3 in the Big East with a thrilling 74-72 win over West Virginia. 


"This is a tremendous win for our program," MacLeod said. "Wf~ came on the road and beat a team that is ranked 20th in the country and had a tremendous record at home." 
The Mountaineers had possession of the ball with 4H seconds left and the game tied at 72. West Virginia took their time and ran the shot clock down only to have the Notre Damn defense deny them a decent shot. 
Then, after 39 minutes and 58 seconds of intense college baskntball, Friel endnd the battle as he took the ball from the top of the key, dribbled right and took it behind his baek to the free throw line where he drained his running jumper with just .4 seconds left on the dock. 
"We were able to get the ddensivn rebound. we kept our composure and didn't rush it," MacLeod nxplained. "Keith knew exactly what he was doing and he drilled that baby with not much time for them to do anything." 
see IRISH I page 16 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Battle in Beantown pivotal for women 
By BILL HARJ "I think West Virginia was one s r w ·r ;, of the best basklllball teams we've 
pnrs n er ~· .· 
played in the confernncn," Irish 
The Notre~D4m.,women's bas-head coach Muf'f'et McGraw ketball tearr\pop~!) tocontinue its remarked. "Miami was the most winning ~~ysfiYSa~urday in talented team, and Ceorgetown Chestnut lli1Lwhen"1t faces the was talented also, but Boston Boston College Eagles in a match-College may be the biggest game." up that could hav~.huge ramifica-The Eaglns arn led by lions for the Big East Tourn~ment Bouchard, who ranks fourth in seedings. · ,. ' the conference in scoring with 
Last week. the Eagles earned a 1(~.9 points per ganin. i\ threat 94-73 victory over Providence on defensively as well as on the Thursday, but lost at Miami on pnrimntnr. Bouchard also leads Saturday, 85-79. ._ the team in steals and three-point 
Against the Friars, BC shot .700 shooting percentagn whiln passing in the l'irst half, a Big East sea~'<,..out 3.5 assists a garnn. ·, _ son-high that ineluded a 5-8 mark ''. Another~hrnat from BC is juniot· from three-point range. cM1;ter Whitney Steele, a domi­Sophomore guard Cal Bouchard nanlrebounder and ef(celleilt led five Eagles in double figures shot biKeker. Steele,av'l''ll'trg~~s '15.3 for the game with 23 points. points per game·~a,;nd leads the 
At UM, the Ea~les on~e agai? team in reQ,g.Mpds. Ste~~.J:.\!so has came out shootmg, gomg .682 blocked 17 shots thrs-snason, from the field in the first half. In strong eno'trgh~o rank siiith in the the second half, BC lost its steam, conference '"---_. hitting only .387 field goals. Meanwh~~.fhe Irish have benn Bouchard turned in 23 points and on a roll O'F'their own over the five assists in 40 minutes. The past few weeks. In a quiet !'ash­Eagles lead the conference in ion. lbe)team has built up an t~r~e-po!nt field goal shooting, eight-ff;liDe_~Jnning streak dating h1ttmg .422 over the course of thn back to "''ee:?r. · 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 


season.
Freshman center Ruth Riley's fine play has earned her a role in the starting lineup. 
, 
Men's Basketball Hockey, at Seton Hall, 
at Bowling Green, Q) •Men's tennis opens seasonTomorrow, 12 p.m. 
January 24, 7 p.m. 
'C 
see page 18
......

Women's Basketball Swimming and Diving, 
Tracksters head to Purdue
CIJ

at Boston College, vs. DePauw
Stt • 
Tomorrow, 2 p.m. 
January 30, 7:30 p.m. see page 17
-e 






