
\ .., 
' 
Thursday, April9, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 1,.23 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Technology grant gives SMC cable, Internet 

STEP. WE HAVE COMPLET­ED THE WIRING IN A YEAR, AND WE'VE PONIED UP THE MONEY TO 
MAKE THESE IMPROVEMENTS.' 
}o/;'1. Coo/'E/1 IJ/1/J:C/Yi/1, /.\'Jo¥!11.11. I'110.\' T!:'(.'JJ.VOWGY 
By KATIE POYNTER 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's College will be able to establish two new posi­tions for its Information Technology staff as the recipient of a $200,000 grant from Lilly Endowment Incorporation received this week. 
The two positions, which are faculty and student support spe­cialists, were made possible by the grant and an~ intended to serve the student and faculty needs that have developed as a result of the continuing techno­logical advances at the College. 
"This is a very signigicant step," said Joel Cooper, director of Information Technology. "We have completed the wiring in a year, and we've ponied up the money to make these improve­ments." 
Saint Mary's has never had stall' positions that are specifical­ly geared toward helping the entire community maximize the potential bPnefits of the increas­ing presence of technology on campus. 
The Information Hesource and Technology Center was created a year ago in response to the need of the college community for a reliable place to take technology questions and concerns. Previously, the center has been run almost entirely by students. The added presence of the full­time specialists will benefit the community through their added degree of expertise. 
"We want to build on the model [of the student's initia­tive]," Cooper said. "Now they will be supported by a full-time faculty and stall'." 
One of the major duties of the faculty support specialist will be showing faculty concrete ways to utilize available technology as a teaching tool in the classroom. This person will collaborate with the student support specialist to make everyone more comfort­able with the technological updates. 
"Technology can now be us~d in intelligent ways in the class­room," Cooper said. "Network connections in the classroom can be used effectively for presenta­tions." 
The provision of the funding for these positions by the endow­ment indicates its approval of the direction technology expansion is taking at Saint Mary's. The tech­nological advances will become evident on campus in several ways in the fall. 
Besides being linked to the internet over the summer, every dorm room on campus will also be wired for cable television. Both of these improvements are expected to be accessible to stu­dents during the next academic year. Additionally, the dorm rooms will be wired for a new telephone system, although the new system is not expected to take effect for two more years. 
The library will also see tech­nological renovations during the 1998-99 school year. 
"We want a very nice; state-of­the-art computer facility [in the basement]," Cooper said. 
The Endowment grant was part of its Strengthening Institurions Program, which awarded $2.2 million to 12 Indiana private colleges . 

By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
A number of proposals dealing with pro­cedure and the role of committees were brought before the Student Senate last night in their sncond meeting of the '98-99 term. 
One of the meeting's most involved debates centered around a constitutional amendment limiting the number of com­mittees on which a senator can serve. Thn proposal stipulated that no member of the senate can join more than three of the six standing committees. 
The bill is designed to prevent senators from joining a committne simply to push the passagn of a certain bill or to help a certain senator get elected as committee chair. and thnn dropping the committee position. 
"It's a fail safn against fraud in the com­mittees." said Keough senator Brian ()'Donoghue, who wrote the amendment. 
Thnre are no senators currently sitting on more than three committees, nor is there a history of fraud of this nature in the senate. 
"There is no previous problem," O'Donoghue said. "This is to prevent future problems." 
Several senators objected to the bill because it limited the amount of work a member can do for the body. 
"I don't see the need to tell people they can't do something in the senate if they want to," declared Sorin senator P.J. DuWors. 
Others felt that the measure was ineffec­tive in preventing unethical activity, as it makes no provisions for switching commit­tees in mid-term. Currently, there is no wording in the constitution that specifically deals with the issue. 
"If we're worried about fraud, then we should prevent people from jumping from committee to committee," said Dillon sena­tor .Jason Linster. "However, I don't think fraud on committees is that big an issue." 
The measure was rejected by a 5-19 vote, with two abstentions. 
Two more bills dealing with committees were proposed in an effort to make the senate resolution process more efficient. One of these bylaws mandates that all leg­islation brought to the floor of the senate be referred to one of the committees for review and recommendation. 
"There's a lot of wisdom in this bill," said Keenan senator Matt Mamak, noting that proposals which have undergone commit­tee review prior to being presented to the full senate in the past have usually been passed more quickly than those that have not. 
There was some concern that bills could be sent for committee review and then sit in that status for the whole year, effectively killing the legislation. 
"We should set a realistic time limit for resolutions that are sent to the committees to be recommended," said Pasquerilla East senator Stephanie Foster. She proposed an addition to the amendment stipulating that 
see SENATE I page 4 
• fACULTY SENATE 
'Spirit' statement inadequate 
By JOHN RAJLICH 
News Writer 
Last night, the Faculty Senate approved a position statement reaffirming its belief that the KSpirit of Inclusion" as given by the University administration is inadequate and needs to be backed up by protection for homosexuals in the University's non-discrimina­tion clause. 
This statement comes after the recent resignation of Father David Garrick from the Notre Dame facul­ty and was released now as a direct response to his res­ignation, according to the document. 
"[The) recent resignation of Father David Garrick ... is an indication of inade· quacies in the administra• tionOs current 'Spirit of Inclusion' policy as a means of insuring protection against discrimination based on sexual orienta­tion," the statement said in reference to Garrick's all e .. gations that he was discrim" inated against due to his sexual orientation. 
In partkular, the docu­

i ment calls for the University "to revise its non-discrimi­nation document so as to include sexual orientation as a protected characteris~ tic." After debate as to the spe~ cific wording of the position statement and whether to mention Garrick's resigna­tion as a specific example, the original statement was put to a vote and was approved 32-3 by the sen· ate, with no members abstajning. The Senate also voted 31­
.· see FACUL1Y /pageS 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The Spirit of Sacrifice 
Do you know tlw histor-~""""""""""::;:~""""""""""~ 
ieal reason Catholics don't ~at meat on Fridays during LPnt? I don't nither. but during this Lm1t1m snason I have had two difT1~n~nt people give me two difTerent tales about how Catholics originatnd the tradition 


of abstirwnce from Viewpoint Editor 
meat on Fridays. 

The first story goes like this. Thn Pope was trying to persuade the l'ortuguesn to eonvnrt to Catholicism. so hn eut a deal with this nation of fishnrmnn -if they convnrted he would make sw·n that Catholics eat fish on Fridays. Vnry sly deal on both sides. 
The otlwr story is very similar. Apparently, towards the end of th~ Homan Empire. the fish market was so bad in Home that the Pope made sure people would bn eating fish on Friday-tlwl'!~by helping the Homan fisher­man. 
Both these amatnur historians gave me their historical accounts and cited them as reasons to do away with this tradition of abstinence on Fridays during Lent. They both denouncnd this tradition of any spiritual worth, since it had sur.h unspiritual origins. 
Whether or not either of these histories of the meatless Friday are indeed historical, to say it ruins the spirit of the Lenten sar.rifice is ludicrous. 
Our faith lies in our hearts, and if it is real it manifesL'i itself in our actions. Jesus showed his love for us by dying on the Cross for our sins; we show our love in return through an ad of bodily sacrifice. Sacrifice is also an act by which we better prepare ourselves spiritu­ally in approaching Easter. By denying our physical bodies, we become more in tuned with our spiritual side in this most spiritual season. 
Why th1m the specific sacrifice of abstaining from eating meat on Friday'! Well, the choice of the day is easy. Jesus died on Friday, mak­ing it an appropriate day for mourning (just as Sunday. the day of Jesus' resurrection, is an appropriate day to rejoice). It is, however. a little more dillicult to pinpoint a reason rngarding the choice of meat. 
The Church cites certain Biblical passages and traditions as explanations. It also explains that meat is such a big staple of the diet that it would consequently be an appro­priatn sacrifice. Or, perhaps the Portuguese and the l'opn did cut a shrewd business deal aft1~r all. 
What1wer thn l'!~ason. abstaining from meat on Fridays during Lent is an appropriate way to prPJJaf!~ us for this spm:ial time leading up to the eomnwmoration of our Lord's death and subsPquent resurrection. All of which lie did in atonement filr our sins. 
We have already surpassed all the regular Fridays or abstinence this Lenten season. Tomorrow is Good Friday, a day of absti­nence and fasting. So, as you are commemo­rating our Lord's death tomorrow with your one regular nwal and two small snacks (sans meat of course) try not to think or the Homan fish market or the Portuguese fishnrmen or even the Alaskan fishermen of today who are possibly still reaping thn rewards of our tradi­tion. 
Instead, think of it as a spndal, unified sign of our love for Jesus and I lis sacrifice on the Cross. 
llappy Easter everybody. 

The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Bill Uniowski Emmett Malloy Colleen McCarthy Jenn Zarorski Alex Orr Production 
Sports Camille Fitzpatrick Brian Kessler Brian Kessler Viewpoint Lab Tech 

Mary Margaret Nussbaum 
Kevin Dalum Graphics Melissa Weber 

The Ob,crvcr (USPS S99 l-4000) i., puhli>hcd Monday rhrough hiday except Juring cx.un .md vacttiun period~. The Oh~crvcr i!'t a mcmher of the A'!'>O(iated Pre""'· All rc::prodllt:[ion riglm. are re!'ocrvcd. 
~ •. \.,.... _.,_._~_.,-I ~.f I: 'II 
mz _;a 

The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April 9, 1998 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Students urge board of trustees to retire 'chief' mascot 
Friday Q, 54 36 Saturday ~58 37 Sunday C .. 60 43 
''''' 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CJ 1998 AccuWeather. Inc 

Pressure
Monday ,,~ / 62 45 
H L 6J ESl [}]] 0 fZJ G i.') ~ lrr) 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
.... )
(~,... \l"' ',... f VIa ASSOCIBIBd Press 
Atlanta 72 58 Honolulu 81 70 Orlando 87 69 Baltimore 63 58 Hutchinson 61 41 Phoenrx 78 51
y,Q,~q~Q -!) ~ u 
Boston 44 41 Las Vegas 71 46 Santa Ana 69 53 
Showers T-storms Rain Ffumes Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 48 43 Milwaukee 42 39 Seattle 56 41 
V1a Assoc1ated Press GraphtcsNet 
Dallas 75 50 Nashville 67 52 Tulsa 62 45 
.... ,.., ·._'!ll.rrtll 
CIIAMPAlGN, Ill. 
Six opponents of Chief Illiniwek will address the board or trusl!ws in the Pine Lounge of the lllini Union today to encourage the board to retin~ the mascot. The board will also discuss various proposals for campus renova­tions when it meets today and tomor­row. 
Hose Strmnlau, a member of People Against Hacism and the Progressive/Action Cooperative, said she will present to the board a copy of the nine resolutions that were made at the Conference on the Elimination of Hacist Maseots over the wceknnd. 
She said she will also urge the board to begin a dialogue with national Native American leadership. Stremlau referred to the absence of Chancellor Michael Aiken and other board of trustees members from the conference. 

She added that the board disap­pointed national Native American leadership by not attending the con­ference. 
"This would have been an unprece­dented opportunity for some heal­ing," Stremlau said. 
But she also said she hopes the board will "break its silence" and consider that it is not too late to start a dialogue with Native Americans. 
Stephen Kaufman, mnmber of the Urbana-Champaign s1mat1~ and pro­fessor of cell and structural biology, said he will also urgn the board to consider the senate faculty resolution to retire the chief. 
Hepresentatives from the Native American Students Organization and Alumni Against Haeist Mascots will also speak to tlw board. 
After comments from the anti-chief group, tlw board's agnnda said it will discuss University renovations and hear several reports. 
According to board of trust!H~S press matnrials, thn committee on buildings and grounds will offer an update on tlw status of several reno­vations occurring on t:ampus. 
The committen will ask the board to approve the contract for a $3()(,,700 roof rnplacenwnt of tlw Intramural Physical Education Building. 

• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS-AUSTIN 
Admissions law may not be effective 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Administrators from UT System colleges said Tuesday 
they are unsure of the effects of the state's new top 10 per­
cent admissions law. "There's a girl who we admitted 
under the new law who graduated in the top nine percent 
of her class but she only has a 650 SAT score. It's just not a 
good situation" said Franklyn Jenifer, president of UT­
Dallas, a campus of about 1,500 students. W.A. Baker, vice 
president of UT-Tyler, said the new law limits the admis­
sion decisions at UT-Tyler. lie said the 56 applieants who 
have applied to the school havn all benn admitted. From the 
56 applicants, less than 15 percent arc minorities. State 
lawmakers passed the top 10 percent law in 1997 to coUJl­
teract the efl'ects of the !lopwood vs. Texas court ruling that 
led to the end or allirmative aetion policies in Texas public 
universities. UT system chancellor William Cunningham 
said what's important is the component schools am comply­
ing with the new law. ''I'm very pleased with the progmss 
and what's going on at all the campuses," he said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA~los ANGELES 
Efforts to enroll minorities intensifies 
LOS ANGELES 
In an effort to encourage as many students to attend UCLA, the admissions office, the Academic Advancement Program (MP) and the Alumni Association have banded together and intensified their outreach efforts. Traditionally, the entire month of April is devoted complete­ly to attracting as many prospective students as possible. All admitted students arn requirnd to turn in their Statements of Intention to Register by May 1. With the decrease in the number of minorities admitted to this year's incoming frnshman elass, such outreach efforts have become extremely important in encouraging minority students to come, director of admissions Rae Lee Siporin said. Yield events, or activities specifically designed to increase thn amount of admitted freshmen, include congratulatory phone calls, special campus tours for top admits, and ovnrnight stays. 
• OHIO UNIVERSITY 
Video may incriminate more students 
ATIIENS, Ohio 

Students who broke the law but didn't got arrestnd while participating in Court Strnet disturbance Sunday morning still could be charged with 1:rimes. Police arrested 34 people, 30 of whom were OU studnnts, on the scene for their involvement in the disturbance, wlwn a crowd of 2,500 to :~.000 peopl1~. mostly students, took over Court Street. Law enforcement ofl'icials will charge people seen breaking the law on a videotape an oflienr made of the incident, Athens policn departnwnt chi1~1' Riek Mayer said yestnrday at a rwws conference. MaytH' will meet today with his supervisors and Mayor Hie Abel to discuss measurPs to prevent such inddtmts. Director of Judiciaries Hich Carpinelli said OU will review each or the 30 OU student arrests and take disciplinary action. Carpirwlli requnsted a .copy of' the vidnotapn in ordPr to press charges against students who might not have been arrested. but who were breaking tho OU Studnnt Conduct Code.. 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 
Senate declines 'brain gain' bill 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

An attempt to keep Nnbraska's bnst and brightnst stu­dents in the state met its !ina! opposition Tw~sday in tlw Nebraska Legislature. Senators voted down LB 1l7(J, known as the "brain gain" bill 19-1 (, on selt~ct l'ile, evnn al'ter Senator Jon Bruning or Omaha introduced an anwndment many senators supported. Bruning's amnndnwnt made cer­tain sections clnarer by stating tlw bill would givn loans first to students with !inaneial neml and tlwn to students who excelled in high school but did not have financial need. Also undnr Bruning's amendment, studnnts who l!d't tlw stat!~ would have to pay back loans annually rather than in a lump sum. Despite concerns, tlw bill, introducnd on bdutlf of thn governor, had advaneed to tlw sncond round of debate March 31 with a 27-(J vote. N1dson said lw had hopnd senators would see the importancn of tho bill and pass it. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeathcr*forccast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, April 9. 
H L
r~-·­
! 
i 

Thursday, April 9, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Fear, anger developed as chil€1 
Gender influences how children react to situatiorfs 
By TOM ENRIGHT forms of phobias. An overhead list of his News Writer included such real disorders as pediophobia, or fear ofdolls, and Chromatophobia, or fear 
Speaking on the primal emotions of !'ear of colors. and anger, doctors V. Thomas Mawhinney Cummings, a prol'essor of psychology at and E. Mark Cummings linked childhood Not're Dame, spoke on anger by focusing the experiences to later adult emotional reac-implications of conflict within a family. Lions in a lecture yesterday al'ternoon. "Kids are little emotional Geiger counters," 
Their joint talks made up the fourth install-said Cummings. "We know that children dis­ment of the mini medical school experiences tress when parents fight in a destructive hosted at Notre OamH. manner." 
Mawhinney, a faculty member at Indiana Cummings explained how <:hildren can University South Bend, explained that culture react differently to eonflict within their home. ean inlluenee what a person fears over a life-Some children may become aggressive, he time. said, while others may try to help out a p~u;­
"The media spreads with the speed of light ent by intervening in the conflict. frightening images," said Mawhinney. "We • He also said that conflict affects people of come genetically wired to look for events in all genders an_d age groups. the environment to be cautious or fearful Difl'erent genders tend to react in different about until we know more." ways, however. Girls tend to rcactin ways 
Mawhinney also explained the benefits of which are harder to S(le, such as depression, fear and pain and told how no clear line while boys act in more overt ways such as exists between fear and anxiety. Citing the aggression. role of cognitive development in a child, ''A child's sense of security ... derives fr{)m Mawhinney told of how a newborn's fears of the health and well-being of marital relation· immediate stimuli in the environment evolve ships as well as from the health and "Y~ll into social fears of acceptance by the age of being of their own relationships with their five or six. parents," Cummings said. 
Addressing anxiety problems, Mawhinney Cummings also noted. that children rep~~h said that about 24 percent of the population edly exposed to marital conflict and violence will have some type of anxiety disorder. do not get used to it,but x:ather become sen-Children of parents with an anxiety disorder sitized to.H. ·.. · .... .. are seven times more likely to inherit that He advocated that parents should rcsolye disorder than an average child. their differences and added that any progt(lss Mawhinney detailed how doctors can treat toward resolution can help a child's w~ll~ anxiety disorders and identified different being. · ·· 
Here it is Easter Week, and maybe you don't know yet what you're doing next year? 
Guess what! You're needed.! 
To teach: 
Religion Social Studies English Mathematics Physical Education Science Biology 
Or to build: 
As a carpenter. 

Krier challanges city architectual thought 
By COLLEEN GAUGHEN News Writer 
World renowned architecture theorist Leon Krier, in his lee: ture, asserted the need to bring architectural unity back to the separatism of the city yesterday afternoon. 
The movement toward mod­ernity in architecture is rooted in the nineteenth century, Krier explained, but became the stan­dard when most buildings con­structed after World War II were built in the modernist style, rejecting what had been deemed dassical or traditional 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

architecture. The advancement Architecture theorist Leon Krier of technology in the age of the spoke on the problems of city machine has been the driving planning, and how architecture force shaping architectural has moved toward separatism and away from integration. 
modernism, he continued, leav­ing no room for traditional clas­"Zoning is the single element sicism. that has destroyed this country," 
"One of the problems of today Krier said. is that there is no debate about The separatism in city land­architecture," Krier said. "When scapes, such as the clustering of you hear something, when you malls and housing, inhibits com­see something ... your body munity life and threatens civic teaches your mind." unity, according to traditional­
He explained that people react ists. 
profoundly to the situations "Architecture is the backdroparound them, establishing initial of our daily lives," said fourth­relationships to objects and year student Anthony Goldsby. environments. "This campus is the structure of 
"People judge the world with­our lives here. Imagine if the out a state of neutrality," he Dome, Debartalo and Grace 
No Summer Plans?? 
SuMMeR SeRviCe 
PRoJEcTS 
AV AJLABLE (ND students only) 
•$1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 
•8 Weeks volunteer work In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications available: at the Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available in: Charleston, SC education & community outreach (car) Charlotte refugee program, tutor, etc. Cincinnati local student Cleveland local student Columbus, OH local student Detroit Red Cross-Bone Marrow Drive 
La Sed -Hispanic Comm. Cntr Ft. Wayne Boys & Girls Club (car) Fort Lauderdale Covent House-teens (male-car) Idaho La Posada -migrant workers (spanish) Indianapolis St. Phillip Neri -kids program Kokomo, IN YWCA shelter for women and kids Michigan City,IN camp for devel. disabled adults Plymouth, IN Boys & Girls Club Dixon, IL Disabilities program and more 

SOCIAL CONCERNS Stop in for more information or call: Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer 4-1384 
said, "and it is important to understand why we like or dis­like." 
The initial break with tradi­tional architecture changed the way the world was perceived, resulting in confusion, Krier explained. 
"It is not a matter of talent, but of concept confusion," stated Krier. "It is not buildings that destroy landscapes, but form." 
According to Krier, the typo­logical complexity associated with design has eonfused form with function, resulting in incon­sistencies such as houses look­ing like churches. 
"Architecture is the language of construction," he said, "and clarity of language is fundamen­tal for any civilization to avoid confusion." 
The main theme reiterated throughout his lecture was the need to stop zoning the planning of cities and bring back tradi­tional architecture to integrate the parts into a functional, cohe­sive whole. 

were all in one place, the Basilica and all the chapels were in one place, and all the dorms were clumped together in one place. It sounds dumb because it is. Our cities should be as inte­grated as our campus." 
Contemporary civic laws sanc­tion where and where not new buildings may be constructed, which traditionalists believe tears cities apart. Krier explained that urban growth is encouraged, but not urban sprawl. 
"Improvements can be made and popularity can be gained with offering traditional design," Krier said. "We need to exercise our right to choose the way we live. Otherwise, it is left to fate. There is a lot of work to do." 
Krier is currently working on projects in Germany, the U.S., England Belgium, Spain and France, and he is the personal advisor to the Prince of Wales, for whom he drew up the mas­ter plan for the development of Poundberry in Dorset. 


Call Us. You Can Help! 
Cap Corps Midwest Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps 
301 Church Street Mt. Calvary WI 53057 888-375-3092 page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 9, 1998 
• Committee chairmanships were announced at last night's


Senate 
meeting. Keenan senator Matt 
continued from page 1 
t.he committee must reaeh a decision within two academic weeks of receiving the bill. 
That addition was accepted by ()'Donoghue, the amend­ment's author, and the proposal was approved 24-1. with one abstention. 
A related amendment was proposed allowing the eommit­tee to rewrit1~ a bill "in a man­ner in which the eornmittfH~ feels accurately reflects the intention of the resolution." 
The senator who originally proposed Llw hill has tlw option of presenting an unaltered ver­sion for a vote if he or she dis­agrees with the committee's adjustments. 
This amendment was approv1~d unanimously. In other senatP news: 
Mamak will head the Residence Life Committee. Academic Affairs will be led by Ryan Constantini of Morrissey and Knott senator Drew Olejnik. Lewis senator Sophie Fortin will be chair of the Gender Helations Committee. The Multieultural Affairs eommittee will be chaired by Walsh repre­sentative Karen Boselli and Pasquerilla East senator Stephany Foster. Dillon senator Jason Linster will lead the Ethics committee and Keough senator Brian O'Donoghue will be chair of the Oversight com­mittee. 
• The senate discussed a res­olution objecting to the University's choiee of Indiana Lt. Governor Joseph Kernan as Commencement Speaker. 
"This should in no way be looked on as a personal attaek against Kernan." said 
Constantini, who authored the rablc to Notre Dame; the Dalai progress. Tlw resolution states 
resolution. "But to choose Lama will speak at Emory that, "The Class of 1998 was 
someone obscure to everyone University and Pulitzer-Prize asked to recommend speakers 
outside Indiana goes against winning columnist George Will for its Commencement and was 
everything the University says it will give the address at then seemingly ignornd." 
is trying to do ... such as Washington University in St. The rnsolution was tabled for 
improving its national image." Louis. further debate until a time 
Constantini contrasted Constantini also objeeted to when more information about 
Kernan to commencement an apparent disregard for stu­the selection ]HOCI~ss can be 
speakers at universities compa-dent input in the selection gathered. 
Welfare reform changes attitudes 
By ERICA THESING program." 
News Writer Williams also expressed tlw irnportancn of 
changing the way taxpayors and casoworkers view 
The stereotypes associated with welfare need to welfarn rncipinnts. 
be changed in ordtw for welfare reform to work, "As wn raisn tiH~ bar of expnctations, peopln an~ 
according to Carlis Williams, executive assistant rising up. With welfare, we've got to n~think how 
for the Indiana governor. we look at people and what they bring to the table. 
The most important change, Williams said, is the We have to change tlHJSI) sternotypes," shn said. way the childron of welfare recipients view their In addition, Williams hopes that tho new pro­parents. She says it is essential for children to see gram can provide hope for those in poverty. their parents go to work everyday and earn an "Often folks who find themselvns in this situation income, rather than accepting government hand­lack hope," she said. "They don't see thnrnsdvns outs. ;ts having something inside themselvns that's 
"What we arc trying to do is impact the next strong enough to make the change. If they can't generation," she said. "At least that work ethic is believe they have something, it's going to be much being modeled for the children. Even if we are not more diflicult for us to h1~lp thmn." able to impact the adults so much, hopefully we Faith eommunities can often provide that extra ean ehange the mindsets of the children." support and hope, aecording to Williams. Thn 
Williams used the Indiana welfare reform pro­state of Indiana hopns to establish links with faith gram as an example. The Indiana program communities and other local agendos to provide emphasizes employment and personal responsibil­more personalized assistanCI) to peoplo who rwed ity by imposing strict time limits on benefits. it. 
"We're changing from a benefits delivery system "There is a recognition that no one entity can do to a 'Work First' system," she said. "We need to this alone. Hopefully families ean rceeivo the sup­break up this generational dependence on the sys­port through entities they are familiar with," tem, and that's what we're trying to do with our Williams said. 



Severe weather hits Alabama 
Associated Press were injured at Open Door standing, thank the I.ord," slw 
Church in Birmingport, where told WBMA-TV. 
BIHMINGHAM, Ala. church members sang hymns Most of tho damage was 
A line of fierce storms rolled and prayed as the storm pound­reported in communitins outsidn across Alabama Wednesday ed the structure, according to of Birmingham. Wendy Wilker­night, killing at least nine peo­witnesses. son, a spokeswoman for tlw ple and injuring dozens as a tor­Emergency officials said it Emergency Managem1~nt
nado reduced brick homes to appeared a tornado swept Agency in .Jefferson County, said rubble. across Jefferson County, includ­five people died in Hock CnH~k 
Some of the injured were in ing Birmingham, touching down and one in Sylvan Springs, com­church meetings that turned in spots where it left destruction munities west of Birmingham. into prayer vigils as violent and death in its wake. Another was killed in Pratt 
winds packing baseball-sized Kendra Vines was with four City, just north of those commu­hail roared past. Birmingham­relatives in her home in Sylvan nities. An EMA spokesman in St. area hospitals reported more Springs when strong winds Clair County, east of 
than 24 people being treated for struck the house as they hid in a B i r m in g ham , r o p or ll~ d two storm injuries. basement corner. more dead in the Wattsvilln More than a dozen people "That was the only corner lert area. 
You are invited to ... 
PLAN THE PERFECT PARTY!!! 

-..~~.,..__-M-<rrlll~ *The checklist fo~" Sl-\Ccess 
*OI"del"iV\g aV\d displayiV\g food 
*E.V\tel"taiV\meV\t aV\d decol"atioV\s 
AU Freshmen Orientation, SYR, and Formal Commissioners and Club Officers are encouraged to attend. 
Location: Montgomery Theater Date: Tuesday, April14 Time: 5:00 PM-6:30 PM 
Sponso>'ed by the Office of Stt.ident Activities, Cate>'in9 by Desi9n1 Risk Mana9ement, and the Office of Alcohol and D,.l19 Edt.ication 


MLB Commissioner Selig to speak on business of sports 
Special tu The Obsuver 
Allan "Bud" Selig. president and chief executive officer of the Milwaukee Brewers and the interim commissioner of Major League Baseball, will discuss the business of sports in a public lecture on Tuesday, April 14 at 12:30 p.m. in the College of Business Administration's .Jordan Auditorium. 
In addition to his speech, Selig will meet with Notre Dame's president, Father Edward Malloy, athletic department coaches and administrators and two campus groups involved in busi· ness-related aspects of sports. He also will throw out the first pitch of the Notre Dame-Manchester College baseball game at 4:45p.m. at Eck Stadium. 
Baseball's interim commissioner since 1992, Selig has served as president and CEO of the Brewers since bringing the franchise to Milwaukee in 1970. The team was moved this season from the American League to the National League. 
Selig is chair of baseball's player relations committee, a member of the ownership committee and a trustee of the Baseball Hall of Fame. He is a past recipient of the Major League Executive of the Year Award and in 1989 was honored with the August Busch .Jr. Award for "long and meritorious service" to the game. 
Among his many honors, he was the International B'nai B'rith Foundation Sportsman of tho Year in 1981 and was awarded the Ellis Island Congressional Medal of Honor in 1993. 
Selig was graduated from tho University of Wisconsin in 1956 with a bachelor's degree in American history and politi­cal science. After two years in the Army. he returned to his hometown of Milwaukee to work for his father in the automo­bile business. lie continues to serve as president of the Selig Executive Lease Company. · 

*The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year Summer Rentals }une,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
•itmishea!c.entmTalr--•JlOx 

•~tl utilities include? .. •Shuttle to. 
•
I\ldoor pool/spa •More 

•Tennis) 
volleyball, & . bask~tball courts • ~on.-:fn. 


•24 hour· 

.r------------~-----------------~----------~--~-------­
Thursday, April 9, 1998 
• :;"}f!RLO i\IEVVS 8R!HS 
Police battle peasants for cocaine 
L;\ 1';\Z, Bolivia 

llundrPds of polir.e and army troops took over Bolivia's coca leaf and cocaitw produc­ing region Wednesday and cleared away roadblocks after a wnPk of violence that left ­at lPast four dead. Soldiers encountered somn n~sistancP, but were able to clear the roads for hundreds of buses and trucks that had bnnn stranded for nearly a week in the Chapare, a lush tropical region in the heart of tlw country. Cora l!)af farmers had used rorks and fallnn tnws to block traffic on the main road linking tlw easl!)rn and western rngions of Bolivia. Tlwy are demanding an end to coca l1)af eradication and govnrnment plans to wipe out cocaine trafficking. ;\n esti­mated 99,000 acrns of coca are grown in the ChaparP, and at least 300,000 people in the region depend on coca leaf cultivation for tlwir livelihood. 
Squatter crucifies himself in 
protest 
MANILA, Philippines 
AFP Photo

;\ Philippine slum dweller had himself 
V
iolence marred yesterday's Cup Final in Milan, Italy as soccer enthusiasts and truncheon-wielding riot police came to blowsnailed to a cross for 20 minutes Wednesday over incidents of stick and flare throwing. 
to protest he said was the government's fail­
ure to resettln squattors evicted from public 
• fRANCE
land. Mario Galvez. 45, wearing a crown of barbed wire which cut his forehead, winced as four-inch rusty nails were pounded 





Nationalists ga!n~strengtlfat golls

through his palms and feet into a wooden 
--~--. . .... ·: .•:·, ·.:::·: .."-:--·' : ..• ;.,,,,... : :.: . .:::....,,,,.·::'.. . . . . . ··.·• . :<:"ii: 

cross near the presidential palace. "I want AssOCIATED P~ 
;i1{6fexample:\!t' dldri't'We:re ~xpelledfromtheir party;God to softon the hearts of govornment offi­frdtfisuch state· theUniorifor Frehch Democracy;cials," he said. lie said he was one of thou­
PARIS ments, \:!iit/:i@i!!<~tnx,?; ,,.,..,. Now, UDflleaders are discussing

sands of squatters evicted from government The far·right National Front has ''The Natioria firpntreje'ttsracism how'they should restructure in lightpropPrty in suburban Quezon City for a rail­always caused trouble for French and· anti-SemHlsm.~:,... he. said of the crisis. Megret, widf:lly believedway projoct. Cross nailings have been an conservatives.. Butnow, the p~tr~y's . We··... ....... ~~· . . ,:,'::;:< -.;[\"··...·..·· to be he!Jind the strategy,was happyannual Easter event in the Philippines for gains in regiopalelections ~e forcing rn{:l l()iltJ:ll~files hnrn1~rlints for to take credit. . ·<years, but most arn held on Good Friday and the traditional right to rethink its ul1ernP~?Yttle~t ang crime. and oper-"We are seeing the first effects ofuS!) stainless steol nails cleansed with alco­basic foundations~ A: ates llh.der the slogal"i. "france First:· maj0:V structural changes in Frenchhol. Thousands of visitors head to Central Bruno MegretJEthe Front's No. 2· It opposes mett~ure:s,t0 .un~fy ·Europe politics,'' he said, N9 longerare thereLuzon, north of Manila, each year to witness man, knows his plan to ~hake up ""'li¥e ~he pla~ed single currency.:.._ tw0.. poles "'"-right and left -butthe rituals, which have turned into a festivity French politics is working. "lam yery ar,.d preSf:lQ.ts it~tt~ft~:i:! f1le only party three; with. the National Front. he
with vendors s1dling commemorative T­
shirts. beer. liquor and snacks. 
'optimistic about the future., progress .· thatwUls~v(l,Frlll"i.~~·~)qentit)l.· .··•· said~ ··· ·· · , 
of the. National f'ront," he said · In,~lec~i?ns la,St Il1ont~ f(.lr regional The only .choic(J for the traditional
Wednesday. · · ·· ,,,,,. · councils/Jt scoredth~ same 15per-right, he said, is t() divide into two

Police nab George Michael in 
In a wide-ranging interview with cent it has polled in national elec-. sides, one that opposes the National foreign journalists, the measured, tions,:But H did. better In some Front and one that .makes alliances
act of lewdness 
thoughtful Megret provided a stark regions. giving it cloutin the election with it. Otherwise, he said, there will 
contrast to the more flamboyant of cognciL,pres~d~nts, who are cl10sen be further chaos. ,BEVERLY IIILLS, Calif. 
Jean~Marie L.e Pen, the party'1'l long-by t}ie ~ou~cil memhyrs, . ·. .• "That is the reason I am, for myPop star Gnorge Michael. the British-born time leader. · ·· ·When some centerli'ight candidates part. very optimistic," he said.

h1~artthrob whose hit songs include the too­made election deals with the Front --' . Megret also presented his view ofhot-for-radio "I Want Your Sex," was arrest­arid won .;;... there Wfl.S such an uproar . Europe under a National Front gov­oct on suspicion of committing a lewd act in a thatfour,ofthem :resigned,T}ipse that ernment.
park restroom. The 34-year-old singer was alone in a restroom in Will Hogers Park whon an undercover officer saw him commit the act Tuesday, police Lt. Edward Kreins said. Kreins would not identify the act and said only that Michael did not proposition the of'f"icer. The park, on Sunset Boulevard 
Bosnian Serbs arrested for atrocities 

across from the Beverly Hills Hotel, has a 
ASSOCIATED PRESS Former Serb leader and positions at the Omarska der immediately to the tri­No. 1 war crimes suspect, camp outside Prijedor, bunal. BANJA LUKA Radovan Karadzic, where scores of Muslim Tribunal spokesman
The NATO-led peace remains at large, although and Croat prisoners' were Christian Chartier said he force on Wednesday his whereabouts are killed and tortured in expected the suspects to arrested two Bosnian unknown. Karadzic, as 1992. be transferred to The Serbs suspected of prison leader of breakaway Serb Televised images of Hague late Wednesday or camp atrocities, and said forces in Bosnia, was skeletal inmates at early Thursday. No date the men would be sent to 
blamed for some of the Omarska and two other had been set for their the U.N. war crimes tri­worst atrocities of the 3 Serb-run camps helped arraignment. bunal. 1/2-year war. spur the creation of the Set up in 1993, the tri­
There were no Serb The captured suspects war crimes tribunal in bunal has indicted at least demonstrations or other wero identified as Miroslav 1993. 75 suspects, the majorityindications of tension in Kvocka and Mladen Radic, "This action ... is yet of them Serbs, and has 23 
the region after both indicted in February another warning to all in custody. Some of the
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
Wednesday's arrests, said 1995 by the U.N. war those indicted for war indictments have not been

( (l\11')'\ TICK! U ..,,( 11\'\'GI: \'1,\I'S I'IUCt 
CLEAN DIF~"iEL CDTI +71.4:1 +0.1UH 2.2.SO NATO spokesman Maj. crimes tribunal for the for­crimes who are still at made public.
TOUl:HSH>!':E SPT\VR TSSW +:'il.J5 +1.187 3.500 fHORi'O PI.C-,\[)H TIIHr"Y +Jh.7S +·LOOO Louis Garneau. The men mer Yugoslavia, set up in large that they, too, will be The head of the U.N.
14.R75 0\t~l USA ISC OUSA +35.00 +0.437 1.687 
SIMJOj\:E CESTRt\1. SCM! +3-l..'il +j.50() U.62S did not resist and no one The Hague, Netherlands. brought to justice." NATO mission in Bosnia, 


was hurt in the military Both men are charged Socretary General Javier Elisabeth Hehn, said BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS operation in the Serb-held with war crimes and Solana said in Brussels. 
Wednesday she thought

fUTUREilllHJ(:S VITK -2H.S7 .J,()()(J 2.500 
ll'l ISC II'EI -26.-t7 -1.125 3.125 town of Prijcdor in north­crimes against humanity He called on other war Karadzic could soon stand
<:<)MJ'UTI:::R LEAR!'JJS<l CI.CX -26.2-J. -4.625 13.Q(!O /'DKI.ASS..:...PJ:IJ A·-·l'llKLI'· -----~67 ·-u15(f 4.7SO west Bosnia. ­
while holding command crimes suspects to surren-trial.

E:'\HA~CEn SERVICE ESVS -2S.S.l -\.5{)0 ·LU.S 
page 6 Thursday, April 9, 1998 
TheObserv~r· ~~~ ~~~~~~JSE~~~E~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


TIDENT GO ERNMEN 1998-1999 


Congratulations 
Student Government 
Executive Officers 

President Peter Cesaro Vice President Andrea Selak Chief Of Staff Deanette Weiss 
Assistant Chief of Staff Gerry Olinger Senate & CLC Secretary Michael Palumbo Controller Dave Rogero Parliamentarian 
Tim Keller Constitution & CLC Bylaws Reform 
AJ Boyd 
RELATIONS Executive Coordinator Carrie Hedin Internal Relations Erin McGee 
~SMC Relations Michael Dickerson Beth Mayer 
Press Releases Kelly Waldron Casey Waldron 
External Relations Jenny Metzger Theresa Hoover 
Weekly Listings Noemi Rubio 
Image & Promotions Meg Samson Joe Mueller 
Archives Melissa Fruscione 
PUTTINGSTTTilENTS FIR§T! 
______________, 
Thursday, April 9, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
STUDENT RESOURCES Executive Coordinator Brett Smith 
Athletic Resources Nicola Borda Chris Muro 
Academic Resources Tim Newman Kathleen McCann Sarah Taylor 
Dining Hall/Food Service Erin Wysong Matt Alverson 
Financial Aid Council Jeff Harington Dan Flynn Christine Schneible 
STUDENT LIFE Executive Coordinators Alicia Coronas 
Social Concerns Maggie Wood Emily Schmidt 
Campqs Improvements Jared Birnbaum Joe Lake 
Campus Unity Jordan Curnes 
STUDENT COMPUTING Executive Coordinator Jackie Faherty 
Web Page Designers John Rajuch Joe Sheppard 
DIVERSITY Executive Coordinator Maria Alevras 
Assistants Marichris Trejo Quinn VandenBurg Kristen Quinn 
GENDER RELATIONS Executive Coordinator Kim Gibson 
Assistants Nina Stephan Susan Roberts 
TRANSPORTATION Executive Coordinator Todd Callais 
Safe Ride Mark Donahey Sarah Grunow 
Transportation 
Improvements Adam Penkhus Vijay Thangamani 
Parking Citations Brendan Burns 
ADMINISTRATIVE RELATIONS Executive Coordinator Andrea Kavoosi DuLac Revisions Michael Speaker Academic Delegate Frank Law Assistant Delegate Liam Brennan 
Board of Trustees Reporting Matt Tomko Mark Massoud 
Asst. to Board of Trustees Reporting Mark Donahey 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 9, 1998 
WE WElCOmE WlTl) JOY Tl)E ~OllOWlNG mEmBERS 0~ Tl)E NOTRE bA.mE ~A.mtly lNTO Tl)E CA.Tl)OllC Cl)RlSTlA.N commUNITY! 
COURTNEY BLAKE 
JODI COCKERILL JESSE DANG 
CHRISTY DUVAL ERIN FARRELL 
LIBBY GRAY MIKE HAWORTH 
CHRISTY HAYES SOPHIE JOHANNES 
KEITH KAWAMOTO VINCE Low 
ROB MERCER MATI MEYER 
·KRISTIN QUINN KARISSA RAUER 
KIM SCHROEDER JIM SHACKLETI 
HEATH WEAVER ALEXANDRA WEHNER EMILY WETMORE GARRE:TI ZOELLER 
PlEASE JOlN US AT T]JE EASTER VlGllAT 9:00p.m. SATURbAY lN T]JE BASlllCA OF T]JE SACREb lJEART. 
TlJANkS TO All T]JE SPONSORS ANb TEAOJ OJEOJBERS W]JO lJAV€ suppORT€() TlJES€ OJEN ANb WOOJEN T]JROUG]JOUT TlJElR PROCESS OF BECOOJlNG CAT]JOllC. 
CHAD GREEN 
SARAH GRANGER TOM BERNARDO MARTHA GIBNEY EMIL KIEHNE 
MATT CONNOR LORA BOWERS 
Too KELLER 
CHRIS RUNGE SEAN MAHONEY 
JASON GOLA 
KATIE RIZZI JEANNE HEFFERNAN 
JOE LOMANGINO 
AMY MciNTOSH MARISA FERNANDEZ 
KATHLEEN KENNEY CATHERINE GEHRED REX RALLANKA 
ERIN DEMING 
PATRICIA LOHMANN CHRIS HARTANDI 
JULIE VODICKA 
JANE PATER MELISSA WEBER 
STEVE BRADEN 
RONI DAVIDSON MOLLY DUNN 
SEAN McGRAW, esc DEIRDRE McQUADE EMA OSAKI 
ANDREA RAY 
KEVIN RUSSEAU, esc 
• INDIANA GENERAL ASSEMBLY 

Asse01bly announces internships 
By PATRICK McGOVERN 
News Wrirrer 
Each year a number of Notre Dame students spend the spring semester in Washington, D.C., getting hands-on knowledge of our national government. while a lesser known program allows students to view how the gov­Prnmr.nt works on the local and state levels. 
The Hepublican Cauc.us of the Indiana State Senate recently announced a legisla­tive internship program for the 1999 session of the Indiana General Assembly. About eighteen juniors and seniors from colleges and uni­versities in lndianu a1·e cho­sen for the program each year. Students work in the State Capital in Indianapolis. A small number of Notre Dame students have partic­
ipated  in  this  internship  
bel'orn.  
According  to  Jeff Papa,  

Se.J1ate Hepublican Intern Direetor, students participat-
Cigarette companies bail out of deal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The leading American cigarette manufactur­ers said on Wednesday that they would no longer work for comprehensive legislation to regulate tobacco bncause Congress was moving in such an unfavorable direction. 
Thn chairman of thn IUH Nabisco Holdings Corp., Steven Goldstone, announeed the new policy in a luncheon speech at the National Press Club. saying that his company would 
ing in this internship come from a variety of majors as well as academic back­grounds. 
"A student's GPA and the classes they have taken are not the only thing looked at in accepting students," said Papa. "We want to see dedica­tion and professionalism more than strictly a grade point average. Students need to be able to take direction but also be independent." 
Students do not take any courses during the internship; they aro treated as full time employees within the Senate. Each student works with two senators and is responsible for various tasks. Staffing committee meetings, researching bills and drafting response letters to con­stituents are some intern responsibilities. Interns work dosely with their senators as they must prepare a daily packet of the bills to be voted on each day. 
Special internships are also available to applicants. 
begin aggressively advertising eigarettes and lighting for their position in court. 
The three other big tobacco companies ­Philip Morris Cos., Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., a subsidiary of BAT Industries, and Lorillard Tobacco, a subsidiary of' the Loews Corp. -quickly issued statements sup­porting Goldstone's position. 
The industry asserts that legislation approved last week by the Senate Commerce Committee would drive companies into bank­ruptcy. 
Students with specific inter­ests may be given opportuni­ties to.~ork in certaiq areas, such as media, finance, eco­nomics and law. For instance, a student interested in the media is assigned to the pub~ lie relations department or interns may work with a Senator on a judkary commit­tee if interested in law. 
Interns gain valuable expe­rience from working in varied areas, according to Papa. 
"For many, this will be their first professional experience where they have responsibili­ties and actually do things that are critieal," said Papa. "The interns make contacts that will help them in the future. They meet a variety of professionals, such as mem­bers of the media and lobby­ists, not just politicans." 
Interns are paid a stipend of $225 a week. Many of the students who are not from the Indianapolis area live in apartments with other interns or may live with interning stu­dents from the area. 


Faculty 
continued from page I 
1 to pass the position state­ment on to the Academic Council and the Board of Trustees as a way to inform these bodies of the senate's stance on the current "Spirit of Inclusion." 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
• The senate unanimously approved a motion to begin investigating the possibility or creating a structure that could aid faculty response to federal legislation concerning higher education, such as the current debate on funding for the NEA. 
In its report on the topic, the Snlnct Committee on Political Action advocated cre­ating a structure that would notify faculty from both Notre Dame and other Indiana schools of higher education, and enable a rapid, effective response from these faculty members. 
• The senate unanimously 
Recycle The Observer 
(219) 272-7376 -130 Dlxleway South 
(U.S. 31 In Roseland) at Howard Johnson's, South Bend, IN 
passed a memorial resolution to commemorate the life and achievements of tlw late Nripen Biswas, a Notre Dame physics professor, who shared in the discovery of tlw top quark in 1995. 
• 
A proposal containing rec­ommendations to improve drug and alcohol abuse pre­vention at Notre Dame was unanimously approved. 

• 
In a d is1: u s s io n o I' t h e Faculty Aleohol Use policy, the committee voicnd its fenl­ing that certain inconsisten­cies in Notrn Damn alcohol policies needed to be resolved. 


An example of such incon­sistencies is the fact that Notre Dame seniors arn allowed to drink at Senior Bar but are unable to attnnd Notre Dame functions with faculty nH~mbm·s whnn alco­hol is available. 
The committnn advised a three-layered system, where­by alcohol use by students. alcohol use by faculty. and aleohol ai)US!~ by faculties are all addressed by Notre Dame poliey. 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 


0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
~!..----9.·~------~~-:--... --..... ----------------~-:~-.----~""!"...,.""':.--·~ .... .,..~--'lr' .......... -.-.--..... "t.,..,. ....... ,.. ........................-..... ~7-1" ...-t.·•;-:·-,~--'"'l\ ................ --------··--.--· _,...,.. ... ---------------------------­

v

?wr.:n~r.
SH>P r P li~nA v~:hnrtriT 
'" ·~ page 9 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 9, 1998 
Calendar of Events 
"El VIA CRUIS" -The Way of the Cross In Chicago's Pilsen Neighborhood­"The heart of Chicago's Latino Community 
Good Friday, April 10 ;r Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns will join in the c~lebration with over 2000 faithful the traditional Latino reenactment of our Lordi's Passion and Death in the streets of PJ!sen, followed by 
~,:=· .. 
reflection and a simple lunch; 
Easter Vigil Basilica Saturday, April 11 9:00pm RCIA: Baptism, First Communion and Confirmation of Elect and Candidates 

Taize Prayer Wednesday, April 15 7:30-8:00pm 
katharine.s h"'"""* Mark, 4-1933 mark.f.massoud.1@nd.edu Alyssa, 4--1884 alyssa.l.hellrung.5@nd.edu 

Easter Sunday 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, April 11 Holy Saturday Easter Vigil Mass: 
9:00p.m. 
Sunday, April 12 8:00a.m. 
.,... 
Rev. Paul F. Doyle, C.S. 
10:00 a.m. Most Rev. JosephR:!crowley, D.• 
• '':·~§\.. 
12:00 noon Rev. Richard v. Warnet:"c.s:c. Solemn Easter Vespers Sunday, April 12 7:15p.m. Sr. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Acts of the Apostles  
10:34, 37-43  
2nd Reading  Colossians 3:1-4  
Gospel  John 20:1-9  

The Triduum Begins... Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Even though we are baptized, what we constantly lose and betray is precisely that which we received at baptism. Therefore Easter is our return every year to our own baptism, whereas Lent is our preparation for that return -the slow and sustained effort to perform, at the end, our own "passage" or "pascha" into new life in Christ. .. Each year Lent and Easter are, once again, the rediscovery and the recovery by us of what we were made through our own baptismal death and resurrection. Alexander Schmemann 
I don't remember the day when I decided to be a Catholic... and I don't mean the day of my baptism in the first few weeks of my life. I didn't decide that... my parents did. I remember long ago envying those who converted to Catholicism because it ocurred to me that they had a choice, and I didn't feel like I did. Until I realized that the choice was mine, to claim it or not... to pro­fess and live my Catholic faith, or not. I don't remember a particular clay on which I said, as an adult, I want to be a Catholic, I want to follow Jesus. And yet I have, most assuredly... and do. Somewhere along the line, the renewal of my baptismal promise became my own. Somewhere along the line I realized that I do believe in the God ofJesus Christ and in the God in Jesus Christ... call it grace, or bum luck... all I know is that I believe. My faith in this God is so real that I want to celebrate it... even the worst of it... because the worst of it, the crucifixion and death ofJesus, is, paradoxically, the best of it. Our very salva­tion is tied up in it. We commemorate this great salvific event liturgically in the Triduum. 
Much can be said about the Tricluum, those clays which embrace the Paschal Mystery. "Triduum" in the Latin simply means "a space of three days," but as it is used in the Christian tradition it is meant to signify the three days prior to Easter Sunday: Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday. The words of the tradition and of the present liturgical books convey the intensity and unity of the hours around the Vigil. These clays call us to fast and pray, to keep watch, and to enter into the holy mysteries of Christ's passion, death and resurrection. We come face to face with the very reality of our own lives, our own dying and rising. Our oneness withJesus as members of his body, our oneness with each other, and our oneness in the death and resurrection of 
Jesus is ritualized in the liturgies of the Triduum and realized in our participa­tion in them, and in our very lives as Christians. 
It is during the Easter Vigil that we as a community initiate and welcome into full communion those who have, as adults, chosen to join the Catholic Church. They have been preparing for the past several months through the Rite of Christian Initiation ofAdults (RCIA). Ten will be baptized and eleven others will be received into full communion with the Catholic faith from other Christian traditions. I include their names here so that you might remember them in prayer in the days ahead: 
Courtney Blake Christy Duval Jodi Cockerill Erin Farrell Jesse Dang Mike Hayworth Libby Gray Keith Kawamoto Christy Hayes Vince Low SophieJohannes Rob Mercer Matt Meyer Kim Schroeder Karissa Rauer Heath Weaver Jim Shacklett Emily Wetmore Kristin Quinn Garrett Zoeller Alexandra Wehner 
These are important days for all of us. Days during which each of us stands alone before God to renew our commitment. It is an opportunity for us as adult Christians to say yet again, ''Yes, I believe!" It is an opportunity for us as a community as well to stand side by side in our shared commitment to live the call ofJesus, to rededicate ourselves to that call, and to build the Kingdom together. Pleasejoin with me in the days ahead in celebrating the glory and greatness of these clays, whether it be at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Church of Loretto, a residence hall chapel, or at your home parish. We join with the whole Church not only in remembering the events ofJesus's passion, death and resurrection, but, as the Body of Christ, we ourselves partake in (DMPUS them even now that they might transform our very lives. MINISTRY 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRF DAME OFfiCE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EI>ITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EI>ITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR He;uhcr MacKenzie 
Nf.WS EDITOR ... Manhew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ........................Kris Klein Vn:WrOINT EOITOR .. . ........ Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Hudat SroRTS ElliTOR.. .. ......... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER.. ....... Michael Brouillet ScENE EmTORS... . . ................ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..............Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klirsch CONTROLlER .................................Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EI>ITOR ............ Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR . .. ................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is dtc mdcpcndr:t\1 new~p.tpcl pub\i~hcJ by the Mudcnt~ of the University of None Dame Ju Lac and Saint M.try's College. It docs not net.:L"S.\olrily rdlcct the policies of rhe Jdminisrr.uion ufeirhcr institution. The news is rcpnrtc.."ti as accurately and ohj,cctivdy a.~ po.t~siblc. Unslt:,ncd t.-ditnri;ds rcpre.<.cm the opinion of the majority of the F.ditor·in·Chicf. MJ.n.Jging Editor. A1asistam M.uuaging F.ditor anJ JcpJ.nmenr cdirors. Commentaries, leners and t:olumn!a prc!lcnt thl· views of the .mthor~. and nm ncces!IJrify thmL" ufThc Observer. Vic:wpoim space is available ro all members of the None DJ.mc/Saint Mary'1a cnmmuniry and to all rcaller... The free t'xprc.:..<>ion of varying opinions thrnugh letters is encouraged. 
Conracting The Observer 
At tk.HaPP.)'TP~S Ac;sisted Living Factlity 
S0ME.TIME. IN THE YEAR ::2.02,:2.. 
Thursday, April 9, 1998 

YES,IGAVE 
MR.CUNTON 
ASFONGE PATH, AND NO,YoU CAN'T 
SUBFOENAME 
AGAIN. 

Ediror-in·Chief (>3I ·4142 Man;tging Ediror/Assi~ranr ME (,j 1-4541 News/l'holo 63 I ·'i.~B Sports (,j I ·454.l Scene//Saint Mm·', 63I-4540 Day Ediror/Viewpoinr 63 I -'i303 Office Manager/General Information 63I-747I 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Join Nader, Overthrow Capitalism 
Which univrirsity or college will be the first to organize and mobilize in order to set the anti-capitalist revolution in motion? 
All philosophical and tech­nological aspncts of tlw 1ww society an~ already in P,laee and waiting. All that is need­ed is a spark-plus tactics. 
Wt~ ean save the world! By simply making the United States the world's first politi­cal and economic demoeracy -A Double Democracy ­and the whole world will fol­low our lead! 
Go to these web sites for more information. 
The New Union Party ­http://wwwl.MINN.NET/-NU 
p 
Ralph Nader for President 
-www.ESSENTIAL. ORG 
Michael Parenti, Books and tapes­www. VIDA.COMIP ARENT! 
New Democracy ­http://USERS.AOL.COMINEW­DEM 
John Cassella 
Durango, Co. 
April2, 1998 
Business Office 63I-5313 Advcrti!<.ing 63 I -6900/8840 Systems 63 I ·88.19 Fax 631-6927 Viewpoint E-Mail Vic:wpc;>int. l @nd.edu Ad E·Mail observc:r@1darwin.cc.nd.edu News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @-nd.edu 
Nationalllniversity Should Have National"(y Recognized Speaker 
T
.he purpose or this letter is not to insult the character or abilities of Lt. Governor .Joe Kernan; he is nothing less that an upstanding citizen, Navy veteran, and political leader of Indiana. Hather, our purpose in writing this letter is to chastise the administration for its obvious ambivalence in procuring a nationally recognized commencement speaker. 
Throughout the last four years, the uni­versity has emphasizod the importance of being a top-ranked university composed of an international student body. With stu­dents hailing from fifty states and live con­tinents. it is difficult to see how a lieu­tenant governor of any state would be an appropriate speaker. As Senior Class President Beth Nolan noted, "it's not that the Lt. Governor is incapable of delivering an interesting and enjoyable speech; it's that as a nationally recognized university, we should have a nationally recognized speaker. 
The prominence of the speaker lends a definite prominence to the commencement ceremony. How would you feel if His Holiness, the Dalai Lama, were to be the eommencement speaker here? Proud? Honored? Excited? Well, that's how the students at Emory University feel since hearing that he will be the keynote speaker at their May commencement. University of Oklahoma students probably feel similarly since Margaret Thatcher will be their speaker. So, too, at Boston College, where Bill Richardson, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, will be speaking, and at Washington University (St. Louis, Mo.) where Pulitzer Prize-winner George Will is scheduled to speak. Certainly not .every stu­dent at these universities is pleased with the selection, but upon hearing the choice, their reaction, unlike students at Notre Dame, was probably not "Who?" 
Perhaps we would not be so disappointed in the choice of the speaker if our com­mencement exercise focused on the stu­dent. However, we cannot even take conso-

·Iation in this. We will not have our names read, we will not have our honors announced, we will not be able to invite more than four family members, but we have paid over $100,000 and worked for four years, and apparently this university feels as though all we deserve in return is to stand up and sit down when our col­lege's name is announced. 
Again, this is not the case at every uni­versity. Felicity Peck, Commencement Director at Vanderbilt University, described commencement exercises there. Rather than spending a great deal of time and effort in securing a prestigious speaker, "Vanderbilt prefers to focus on the stu­dent...spending a lot of time and a whole lot of money making this the best com­mencement they've ever been to." Vanderbilt has a two-hour ceremony dur­ing which each student's name is read, honors announced, and diploma individual­ly conferred. The only remarks are from the Chancellor because Vanderbilt believes the focus of commencement exercise should remain on the students and their accomplishments. 
The choice of our commencement speak­
.er in light of those names suggested over a year-and-a-half ago by senior class offi­cers, is a real reflection of how little stu­dents' wishes weigh in the mind of the Notre Dame administration. We do not believe thai, in the last year-and-a-half, this university was unable to secure any speaker of national repute. Why should we believe this when we attend classes in Edward DeBartolo's llall, live in the "Coca­Cola" quad, and attend football gam1~s in the company of Dick Vitale. Hegis Philbin. and author llarvey MacKay, to name a few? How can any of our wishes for gradu­ation be fulfilled when we are dehied the opportunity to have a student representa­tive on the commencement committee? Although it is obviously too late for our opinions and suggestions to be taken seri­ously, we urge members of other classes to demand changes in the commencement process. 
•  DOONESBURV  GARRY TRUDEAU  
THUUAYI 5&£/T,IH/t-, !JJING64YI5A PI<J­~n-MA77E/?, NOTA POtiTICAI.-!?AT!ONAL.e FOR. tYF~ PUD­t!C DEHAV!Of?.,..  INMY V//3/U, TH/3 FLAUNTlNGOf fk?MostX!JAL.ITY 15 AU PAJ<T OfA LARG&R.~Of ANOI?I?&RJ;t!iOCieT'I,CFCOM­MOV!leC£NC't OF CIVIC  

We look forward to attending the cere­mony because it will be our last opportuni­ty to gather as a class, but we will be won­dering what it could have been like had the suggestions of our class representatives been taken seriously. 
Kerry Ducey 
Jennifer Cobb 
Carrie Hellrung 
Allison Roberts 
April I, 1998 
• 0.UQTE OF THE 0AY 
'The universe is made up of stories, not of atoms.' 
-Muriel Rukeyser 
4·9 .. 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
a WMG a
a 
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, April 9, 1998 page 11 
• lETTERS TO THE EmTOR 
Who Will Be Courageous for Garrick, and for God? 
"Tiwre is nothing boring ~~~qi~i~ii~~~~~iil~ inequality.
about God." This seeming-Fr. Garrick drew analo­
ly simpln idea smHns to haw hmm l"orgotlfm at the University ol" Notre Damn. On Sunday. March 29. 1!JIJil. Fr. David Garrick said mass in Knott II all and used this phrase in his homily, and l'or the lirst tinw. I truly realized how much our university is going to lose as a result of' Fr. Garrick's r<)signa­tion. 
1:r. Garrirk. though I have only !ward him once, may be orw of' tlw finest preachers I have 1wer lis­t<)rJPd to. During the homi-I ly, l looked around the audience and saw not a single pair of' nyi)S closed. Fr. c;arrirk was able to make those pres1•nt l'or the mass laugh one minute, with his humor. and quietly rP!lnct the next as he authoritatively spoke about the importance of our Lord and Savior in tlw lives of all peopln. 
Using tlw Cospel rnading as a background, Fr. Garri!'k made several points for equality in our world. In John il: 1-11. the familiar story of the adulterous woman is told. Jesus responds to those who wish to stone her for this offense by saying, "Let anyone among you who is without sin throw the first stone." Fr. Garrick drew sev­eral powerful conclusions from this in his homi­ly, all of which pointed to one irrefutable fact: Jesus refuses to accept the existence of any 
Straight World a Lonely Fl{;lce for Gay~ 
Father Garrick has recently resigned his post at Notre Dame. citing a policy of unjust treatment of gays and lesbians at Notre Dame. This letter rep­resents an attempt to articulate the nature of this injustice, which I identify as a systematic undermining of the homosexu­al community at Notre Dame. 
I argue that this university should allow and even promote the existence of a gay and les­bian community within its walls. I argue that this implies that sexual orientation (and one's views concerning sexual orientation) should be a criteri­on neither in the university's hiring policy nor in the alloca­tion of support for student organizations. 
The need for a specifically homosexual community within the broader, campus communi­ty stems from the tremendous costs to gays and lesbians of living in a heterosexually struc­tured society without the bene­fit of a homosexual subculture or community. I will limit my discussion to three obvious costs. 
The social scene of young­adult America is not sexually neutral. It is saturated with the presumption or heterosexuality. Even soda! gatherings, which are not explicitly a forum for "hooking up" with members of the opposite sex, are driven by heterosexual banter. Just ask yourself' how many hours dur­ing an evening out with other guys or girls are spent dis­cussing (I am being charitable) the positive and negative attributes of members of the· opposite sex. For the closeted gay person, tho alternatives, in the absence of a flourishing and accessibly gay community. are to feign interested engage­gies between Jesus preaching against inequality, the work that Ghandi did in India, the abolition of slavery, the allowance of' unions, the equality of men and women, and the attempt to attain equal rights for all. I could not help but realize that throughout history, it is often a single person or a very small group of people who have instituted the greatest change for the benefit of 
1 humanity as a whole. i Thus, I turn to the : administration of this ' great university and ask, 1 how can you let such aIman slip away? If Ghandi, I Abraham Lincoln, Mother 1 Teresa, Thoreau, and 
Jesus Christ, whom you claim to be the models for your lives, had the courage to stand up for what they felt was right, what is taking you so long? This university needs a legally binding non-discrimination clause which includes all people. I refuse to call anyone who I have never met a coward, but I have yet to see any great amount of courage coming from the administration of this university. 
David "FD" Hartwig Freshman, Knott Hall April ], 1998 
ment in this banter (an ulti· mately unhealthy self-depre• eating project) or to isolate oneself from social force gays and make do with these tives by openly formation of a community is unjust. 
Consider also that the est joys and anxieties of most young adults stem from the successes and failures in their relationships with the persons with whom they are erotically involved. When a young man,· for example, is going through the ordeal of the failure of his relationship with a girlfriend; he can lind support among friends. This just is not true of the gay man having problems in a relationship with another man. This sort of support is lacking in the absence ofart .) •,. visible and accessiblegay.com-' 
munity. To deny gays and leth /f munity. Additionally, leaving 
bians these benefits which community affords is unjust. 
Finally, the project of inte­grating one's erotic life into ones own concept of one's per­son is perhaps the most import project one engages in as a young adult. For the heterosex­ual, there are a number of readily available paradigms that one can fall back on as part of one's reflection. A large part of one's university educa" . tion comprises tho discussion of· these paradigms as they occur in literature and in philosophi­cal works, in music and in fllm. Corresponding paradigms do exist of gays and lesbians. but in the absence of guidance · from a community of discus­sion, few will encounter them ·· until late in their personal development. Consequently •. homosexuals, in the absence of. 
a homosexual rmTin"\lm.itv 

<t:~: 
which includes gay and lesbia, 
professors who can provide t counsel and in tell enjoy only· a 
opportunityJo .. the project of self~ aided bythe 
the)iniver$i thErmost benefit ofthe l.miver.­
·.. is largely denied to gay and . students, and this too is unjust. 
This university's policies both not to recognize social-oriented gay and lesbian student groups, and not to place sexual orienta­tion out of play as a hiring cri• terion. have two coordinated effects. Non-recognition direc~-· ly frustrates effort'> to form a visible and accessible homosex­ual community on this campu$ bY denying access of common ..•. and accessible spaces tha(Jtr~ a requirement of such a com-' .•· 
the sexual orientation card in 
the hiring criterion deck; hence 
maintaining the threat of its 
being played, makes it less like~ 
ly that homosexual faculty 
members, especially younger 
ones that are likely to expend 
the effort to interact at a per­
sonallevel with students, will 
adopt the visible position they 
need if they are to function as 
role models, counselors, and 
critics in a campus gay and Jes· 
bian community. These two 
effects combine to undermine 
theability of a homosexual 
community to nourish at Notre --Dame. The homosexual men 
and women on this campus 
have done nothing to deserve 
this treatment. These policies 
are unjust. 
Timothy Byrne 
Depamnent ofPhilosophy·· 
April5, 1998 
Sisters Don't Need Habits 
While Julie Ferraro (no relation) is entitled to her opinion about the post-Vatican II renewal of religious life (The Observer, March 25}, she crosses the line when she suggests that women religious who are "inconspicuous" (not in habit) are in disobedience to the Church and to Christ, and have lost focus and lack faithfulness to their vows and the communal life. At best, her comments are mis­guided and insulting; at worst, mean-spirited and even slander­ous. 
I would behoove Ms. Ferraro to converse, pray and minister with some of the women religious she is so quick to condemn before she speaks in such authoritarian tones against the witness, quality and integrity of' their vowed life. 
Bettina Maria Ferraro, C.S.C Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross Notre Dame, Ind. March 31. 1998 


'Just War' Theory is Christian, too 
l
am writing·in response to David McMahon's "HOTC on Notre Dame's Campus: A Blemish." There are so many things that I want to say, but I think I can count on others to say them. I 
will limit my response to three points. But first, as this is Lent, I should agree with Mr. McMahon on one thing: our military has committed unspeakable atrocities in its history, and its members should be drilled in penance and humility, as well as in discipline and pride. 
As for the rest. First, supposing Mr. McMahon to be correct in his claim that the United States has violated every (every?) treaty with the American Indians, it just does not follow that blame should be laid at the military's doorstep. Our military is firmly under civilian control; its Commander-in Chief is an elected presi­dent and our military has been carried out under our democratic government. 
Second, the love of peace within the Church has taken many forms. Once such form is the just-war tradition, which recognizes that one can be a warrior without necessarily being a war crimi­nal. Like pacifist movements within the Church, this form can per­haps find its inspiration from moments of Christ's life as portrayed in the Gospels. For the suffering man who died for us is also the avenging God who violently drove the money-changers from the Temple. 
And third, Mr. McMahon's article displays the same atti­tude toward a large and diverse group of people (that composing our military) that the military, indeed that nation, has taken toward other groups (such as the Sioux or Vietnamese). The attitude I mean is one that gen­eralizes over a whole group, or even over a whole nation, and compresses them into that one demonic entity thereafter called "the enemy." It is, in large part, this dehumanizing attitude that leads to massacres. And in Mr. McMahon's article, it is this same attitude which has led to an attempted massacre of char­acter. I can promise that a close scrutiny of the records of Notre Dame's cadre, cadets, and mid­shipmen will not reveal a "band of international brigands" or "law breaders." And I lind offen­sive in the extreme his daim that "no honor can or ever will exist" in the pursuit of war. Tell that to the soldiers who stormed Omaha Beach in 1944, or to the heroes who fought under Hobert Gould Shaw in the Civil War. 
I close with a brief story. Years ago my father took part in a public debate with two paci­fists. He was, by his own admis­sion, badly out-maneuvered on that day. During the question­and-answer session, an old man stood up, and disclosed that he had spent most of the second World War in a Nazi concentra­tion camp. "I am a musician," he said, "and have been all my life. And the sweetest sound I have ever heard was the thun­der of Allied tanks rolling though the gate of that camp." That was all that he said. And I can say nothing better in defense of our military, in which I have both proudly and humbly served. 
Christopher Toner 
1==~'1TT 
Graduate Student, Philosophy 
April I. 1998 



*** (best out of five) 
P
hiladtdphia basnd DJ/producer King Britt. through Sylk 130, presents us with an album containing a mixture of rap. soul and retro funk which is laid back and rnlaxing, although perhaps, at times, it beconws a little too much so. !\ good value for Ow money, nightPon tracks constitute an album which has sonw enjoyable momtmts but is, on the whole, disappointing duo to its failed attempt to lw hipper than hip. Dnaling with this down­Si(it' lir!:>l, the prevalence of narration and eon­vorsation on various tracks is regrettable and bland. EVPn worse, "IULA." is what appears to llo an attempt at a poem read to fakn applause and distant drums. Nnndloss to say. this isn't VVordsworth. /\!though tht~ intontion is admirabiP. tlw banal senlinwnts expressed are tritr• and just a little hit annoying. A rncorded argunwnt on "(;t'ltin' Into It" goes tho same way and t•rH·ouragos tho listnrwr to question the point of !.lwst• non-music:al interludes. 
ThP album's gerwral problem is found in the fact that almost all of the tracks are indistin­guishable from one another; typically a spoken t~xchangt~ is followt~d by a familiar lmat and then 

albun-1 reviews 
A 
nyone who is a regular at "Acoustic Cafe," held every Thursday night at LaFortune will recognize at least the name of the Dunn Brothers, if not their familiar all-acoustic sound. .Justin and Aaron Dunn an~ a pair of talented acoustic guitarists from Kansas whoso very light and folksy sound has be"nn capturnd on their first studio effort together, enti1kd Mnmory. 
Tlw two Notre Danw students are regularly featured at "Acoustic Cafe" and by the sound of tlwir album, it's the type of playing atmosphere that suits their sound. All songs on the album arP originals, written either by Justin or Aaron. and each song exhibits much of the same sort of high-spirited lyrics one might find on a John Denver album. .Just ·looking at the album cover and inside inst~rt, the foeling one gets is orw of simplicity and lucidity. This simplicity carries through to the album where many of the sounds rel1eet inlluences of the Indigo Girls and other such folk groups. The first song on the album, "At the Edge of Time," seems to be their strongest and most catchy tunc. At first listen, the song conjures up resemblances to the Indigo Girls, but also Jackopierce. If you've never heard of .JackopiercP, they began as the same type of two-man, acoustic guitar duo who play mtich of 
either rap or soul vocals take over. While this policy is fine with works of brilliance, in this casr\ an unchanging and increasingly repetitive soundscape docs nothing to increase interest in tht~ message the album attempts to promote. 
However, there are one or two good moments which rescue the project from lolitl ruin. "The Htmson" is a mellow, well-written song with lush female vocals -a welcome change from other voices on the album. "Last Night a DJ Saved my Life" is a ludicrously kitsch echo of many 70s disco anthems, as groovy as anything and highly worthy of a dance remix or two. 
The final deennt track, "When the Funk Ilits the Fan," appears straight after this, and is simi­lar in many ways to its prndecessor and pos­sessed of tlw same funky beat. Overall this. is a mediocre album with more bad aspects than good, so try befort~ you buy. 
Julia,, Elliott 
the same style. While the rnsernblance was uncanny, many of tlw Dunn Brotlwrs' otlwr songs such as "Man with a Dream" and "Carpe Diem,'' exhibit the sanw gnnro of songwriting of eountlnss folk singnrs lwforn. 
The sound of two acoustic guitars can lw awP­sorne, espncially when tlw guitarists are skilled as the Dunn Brotlwrs an~. and tlwy rnatrh with good harmonization. llownvr~r. aftnr hearing thP tmtire album with nothing but guitar and vocals. the listmwr can be left looking for some kind of variation or added twist to tlw sound. perhaps a conga or harmonica or otlwr acoustic instru­ment to add dinwnsion to thP music. 
Tlw Dunn Brotlwrs' easy-listPning sound fits perfectly in tlw folk genm, and almost rr~arlws the point of contemporary Christian with somP of their lyrics. Tlw album as a whole is an imprns­sive work for a pair of Not.rr~ Danw studPnts to release and tlwir talonts should not go unnotit:Pd or without eonsidBration. Look out for tlwi r sounds filling tlw air at "Acoustic Cafn" and otlwr vnnue around campus soon. 
Dave Clark 

Sylk 130: When the Funk Hits the Fan Columbia Records
** (best out of five) 
D
epeclw Mode released a record last year which was received contrary to popular expectations. The album Ultra not only completely flew under the radar of traditional 'Mode stalwarts, but it also enjoyed accolades from the most unlikely of sources -iLlw British press. It's for this strange reaction that this record is worth taking note of again. 
Load singnr Dave Gahan always lamentnd, dn~nchml in self-pity, "In Britain, we're pretty much treated like part of the furniturn." That's true. Look at datt~s and locations ofpast DM tours. You 'Ill son an average of 10 to 15 shows per yBar in Germany and, in a good year. three in tlw United Kingdom. From Stockholm to Barcelona, many listt~rwrs felt Depoclw Mode (It-fined tlw elt'etronic musical age HI" the 80s, only to st~e the band catl'gorically rejeeted in its home country. That's why it was such a shock tn st~t~ DM's "It's No Good" singlt~ t~nwr tlw UK indie top live last yt~ar and be included on music magazirw's CD of nwmorabln hits from I !)!)7. 
Back i n t h is country, tlw Six too n Candlt~siBrDakfast Club crowd started to 1ake notien of tlwm around 1!)8(> and ask tiwrnselves, "IIny, who's this band with no drummer that stdls out ice hockey arenas in Munich'?" DM responded by t~nding the 80s with an all-out blitz on America. They succeednd splnndidly with such memorablt~ monHmts as riding horseback in thn Arizona dessert for thnir 1!)!)() Personal Jesus video and selling out Dodger Stadium. What made their approach to thn New World refreshing, comparnd to that of overly self-con­scious U2, was that they never tried to become American. Tht1y took, they gave, and despite 
It all eanw apart in 1!J!J:{. Dave Cahan had relocated to Southern California and dnveltipPd a misguided dnsin~ to play n~al rock n' roll. What resulted was Faith & Dnvotion, a disastPr that sounded like a cross bt~twnen Yaz and Tlw Black Crowes. Crnative tt~nsions within tlw band wt~rn so grnat that rt~cording had to bn moved from Spain to thn more familiar llarnburg. i\ftnr a heroin rnlapse, (;ahan latnr attnmpted suicidP and musical maestro Alan Wilder ldt tlw band. 
So it was 1 9!)7 and Cahan had suppos('(lly cleaned up and rept~nted. Obviously strurk by tlw public's rejection to Faith & f>pvotion, hP now rnalized that what was left of his band could not try to lw sornnthing it wasn't. With produwr Flood assuming much of Wildr~r·s lt~dl­nical musicianship, thny ol'l't~ red U I tra. This n~conl dons not mow DM rorward, but it rPr­tainly dons a lot to bring l.lwm back to wlwrt> they worn lwforP tlwir I()();{ tailspin. Tlw OIH'n­ing track, "Harrel of (;un." is quii.P a rocky song and not characteristir of tlH• album as a wlw!P. But after that, songs likt~ "l,.reestat!'" and "Insight" takn you to tlw familiar l>M domains of wtdl-timnd. syntlwsiznd highs and colorl"ul soundscapns. Tlw third track. "llomo." with songwriter Martin (;ore on vocals, givPs r•spP­cially good rnason for l>ept>rlw Modt> !o lour again. Wlwtlwr or not Gahan wants to onrP again expose himspJf to tlw addictive tt~mpta­tions of lift~ on the road is anotlwr story, but until tlwn, wn havn this-not a gn~at rnrord, but certainly a stop on tlw road to n~covnry. 
occasional self-deprecating attempts at eleetrie guitar, they always stayed true to their electron­
Sean King
ic, European roots. 

----------------------page 13 

I
t's lll'('ll four y('ars and a day since Nirva.na frontman Kurt Cobain was discovnred dnad in his Seattle. l'olic(~ quickly ruled Cobain's death the result of a snlf-inflictnd gunshot-wound to the head. Crities lalwled Cobain as yPt another victim of fame who just couldn't handle tlw pr(•ssun' and scrutiny. Stories of notorious drug abuse and prPvious altt'mf'lts at suici(k addnd furt!H'r credibility to tlw tlwory that C:obain simply gaw up on his music, his fans, and most importantly, his family. Ilownvnr, IWW startling nviden(:e has come to light that l.lw singer/guitarist did not takn his life. HPnowiwd invnsligatiw n'portt~rs Ian llalperin and Max Walla('!' prove with thPir IH'\\' book, "Who Killed Kurt Cobain." that tlw suiridP is not as opl'n-and-shut as it apJWars to lw. 
Consid(~red tlw spokPsman of a generation of dissatis­liPd youths, Cobain lwlpPd bring altt~rnative music into tlw mainstn•am. tlwrpforn bringing an end to the over­commPricializPd hPavy mntal and Michal'! Jacksonian pop of thP ~Os. Nirvana literally came out of nowhen~ to owrtakP tlw top spot on Billboard's Top Selling Albums. "Snwlls l.ikP Teen Spirit" was put on heavy rotation on radio and MTV. and rncorcl stores couldn't keep a copy of NPvermind on the slwlvPs. Nirvana was far !'rom being a mw-hit wonder. Other singles such as "Lithium" and "In Hloom" kPpt tlw album saiPs up. The followup album. In Utero. rPcPivPd critical and commercial acclaim. 
book review 
Yeah, a book! 
"Who Killod Kurt Cobain" l'irst examines the musi­cian's troubled upbringing and the pre-Nevermind days of Nirvana. However, soon the focus shifts over to Courtney Lovn, Cobain's wife and mother of his child, Frances Bean. A possible murder theory puts her at its cnnter. 
Love, whosn n~al nctme is Courtney Mirlwlle Ilarrison, was born into a marriage that lastnd less than two years. Shifted back and forth betwncn hnr parents and other rPlativns. Lovn fi~CfJuently ran into the law for shoplifting incidents, eventually landing herself in a reform school. Arter running away from home, Love tried to make it as an actress, but bning short on cash, she soon resorted to stripping. 
Coming !'rom a musical background (hrr l'athPr was once a mcmbnr of The Warlocks, which would later become known as the Grateful Jkad), she began playing in a series of bands. However. few lasted long because her bandmates wen~ quiting due to her prnsence. Some former membNs rmnembering her as being d()sperate for fame, vowing to do whatever was necessary to achieve her dream. · 
She reached stardom with tlw marriage to Cobain, one of rock's leading men. Cobain helped Love win a record­ing contract with Geffen Records, and he even helped lwr write material for her band Hole's major label debut (which ironically skyrocketed after Cobain's death). 
Many musie insiders knew that Cobain was to leave Nirvana because he was simply tired of the entire indus­try. Also, in narly 1994, Cobain and Love were in the early stages of a divorce, which Love had apparently hired the meanest lawyers to represent her. Cobain's departure from Nirvana and a divorce would mean a tremendous loss in fame and money for Love. She some­how needed to nnsure that neither event happened. Cobain's death was the only option. 
Much of tlw nvidence in the book comes from the work d01w by private investigator Tom Grant. Grant was originally hin'd by Love to look for Cobain after he clisap­peared from a drug rehab hospital, a week before his death. As Grant became more involved in the case, he undereovered crucial evidence proving that Cobain's death wa!' not a suicide. Now, biting the hand that once f<'d him, lw is on a mission to show that Love is behind lwr husband's d!'ath. 
Although most people will roll tlwir eyes at this book. tlw information presented in its pages is overwhelming and convincing. This is not another O.J. or JFK conspira­cy book. It slwds some light on the true nature of Courtney Love and her marriagn to Cobain. In "Come As You Are," Cobain swears that "I don't havf~ a gun." llopefully. if tlw case is opPned, we can see if someone else did. 
Emmett Malloy 
Murder or suicide? 
Some of the evidence presented In "Who Killed Kurt Cobain?" 
Credit card; A credit card which Cobain kept in his wallet was missing upon dis­covery of his body. Starting on the day of his death, someone else began using the card. The last attempt was made on April 8, the disyovery of his body. 
Heroin; Cobain was high on heroin when he was shot, but the dosage he took was 3 times the lethal leveL Upon injec· tion, Kurt would have become immediate­ly _incapacicated. This raises another pomt: why would he wantto die in such a 
.violen~ wa;t}Vhen he could peacefully pass away m hl:S sleep? 
"Suicide note": Two internationally renowned handwriting experts have agreed that there are two different sets of handwriting in the note: There is also a second nq.t~ whicl1 Love found hidden under the l:}ed a few months after Cobain's death. In this note, Cobain explicitly says he plans on leaving music~ :not life. · 
Fingerprints: There were no legible fin­gerpr.ints found on the shotgun, the box of cartndges. or the pen used to the write 
the "suieide}lote". · 
Liar: Love, whose own father has called a "compulsive liar," has repeatedly told top media publications that her husband had blown his head to pieces. However, Cobain's skull, with the exception of decay, suffered little dama~e. Why then would Love go a~ound makmg his death much more morbid and gruesome than it really was? 
Hitman?: A Los Angeles musician told Seattle police that Love had offered him $50,000 to kill Cobain. He passed a lie detector test by the world's top polygraph examiner, but was found dead, shot m the head execution style, a few days later. 
Fear of Courtney: Three weeks before his death, police were called to the· Cobain house· whet;e he. said he was "biding from Courtney.? Three days· before his death, Kurt told a friend that he "feared" for his life. 
O
ver tlw past fpw wnPks, two befud­dling, yet SP(TPtly linked plwnomena haw occUITPd on almost a daily basis. IhlP to somP act of (;od. El Niiio. or my mollwr. tiH' \\'('atlwr has bPcomP iiHTPasingly gloomy. :\t tlw sanw limP, evPrything from pallwtic Oscar picks to tlw omnipn~sence of tlw guru or all things ska, Matt Butte!, has regulatnd yours truly, tlw D.J Spak. to Tlw Obsnrwr sidn­linPs. llowPwr, as MikP Sh("(•kgast's car and the Nor! Dogg's lungs can cPrtainly atlt~st to, 199~ is tlw )'('ar of the DJ and nPillwr tlw man nor the plan \\"ill prPvent mP from dnlivnring OIW final, jolly ("(•\'ipw to tlw disgruntled massns and l'aith­ful I'Padnrs. · 
Anotlwr man who is bnginning to nnwrgo in I<J<JX is tlw onP and only Jrp CubP. Sonwtimns tlw angriPst man in rap ((•.g. -tlw f<J<J I album lkath CPrtilicatP) and occasionally tlw l)('st eom­pcfy 'ATitt•r on the plan('! (i.P. tho 199!i motion picturP '.'Friday"), tlw l'.ooh~sl Cube that's in the l'r(•nznr has combitwd both his cinematic and musical ambitions to bring The Player's Club to tlwalPrs and record sto("(~S nationwide. As is the (:asn with most H&B/rap soundtracks, Tlw Playnr's Club sports an all-star linn-up of artists including .Jay-Z, Kurupt, MasLPr P, and of murs(~, tlw indomitable lcP Cube. Unlike the norm of this gnnn\ how(wor, The Player's Club is not men~ly an ovnrhypPd mix tape dnsigned to increase the l'ilm's prol'itability. Instead. this 
album review 
soundtrack features a focused collection of up­tempo hip-hop and snxy H&l3 that S(~ems eom­patibl<' with a movie about a southern strip dub. In fact, Josh Nod a says, " ... as an expnrt in this field, I pPrsonally believe that this is thP best soundtrack album sinen 'Showgirls."' The high­lights rPrtainly shin<' brightnr than tlw lovvlights on The Players Club, with Changing Faces dnliv­Pring a lPrrific song and some femal(' perspec­tive, lc(' Cube and .Jay-Z making tlw dance hits, and Maslt~r P adding a littiP levity to tlw sound­track. 
But what makPs this album truly outstanding is its straight, in-your-far.<' attitude. k.P Cube has a real knack for making songs about club­hopping and his lov<'d ones seem like an apoca­lyptic batliP betwePn good and Pvil. As Mike "Pleas(' Don't Call Me Scraggly" Dwyer says, "Ice Cube's train's a-coming, and if you don't get on you'n~ gonna get run ovPr." Eloquent odes and ridiculous metaphors aside, The Players Club is a solid album that will knep you movin', groovin' and doing it all night long. Much likn Tavian Cain Bass. this album possesses attitude, aiTec­tion and gratitude-necessary ingredients in a 
truly flavorful record. The Players Club sdtk· Various Heavyweight Records 
*** 1/2 (best out of five)
DJSpak 

................_.............~....~................................~~..~....-....~-.ssc.r~.-..~~..........~....................~..j..~~~ 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursaday, April 9, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
"· 
Rogers hands Cleveland first loss of the season 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND. Calif. 
Kenny HogPrs pitclwd snven strong innings and A.J. llinrh singll'd honw the go-ahead run in thl' st>venth as tlw Oakland Athlt>tirs dl'featPd Cleveland 3­1 on Wt>dnesday. the Indians' first loss this sPason. 
HogPrs ( 1-0), obtained in a tradP from tlw New York Yankees last Nnvnmber. got his first win for Oakland just a few hours al't!'r tlw Indians eom­pletl'd a (,-!i vil'lory over the ;\· s i n a g a nw t h a t s t a r t e d Monday night. 
It took tlw Indians just 20 minutPs to romplntP tlwir win in tlw suspendPd ganw, a eon­test that was dPlayr>d hours by rain on Monday night and tlwn suspPndPd lwr.ausP of tlw AI. nu'fnw. 
In t lw s r hP d ul nd ga nw. Hogt~rs allowl'd orw run and four hits -only one after the first inning. Tlw ll'ft-handnr struck out fivl' and walkl'd four. Mikl' ~lohll'r pitched a perfect eighth for Oakland and Bill Taylor pitrlwd tlw ninth for his first saVP. 
Clevl'land startl'r Dave Burba ( 1-1) gave up two runs and five hits in seven innings. The Indians matched their best winning streak of last yt~ar by opening tlw season with six straight wins. Cleveland will play its homn opener Friday against ;\nalwim. 
Hinch's two-out single in the sev~mth scored Matt Stairs, who doubled leading off. The
-A's added a run in thn eighth on an infield single by Hickey Henderson. a stolen base and an RBI single by Stairs. Stairs had a sacrifice fly in the first. The Indians tied it on a sacrifice f'ly by Manny Hamirez in thn sixth. In the completion of the suspended 
game, Mike Jackson wrapped 
up the victory by getting Scott 
Spiezio to fly to center with 
two on and two out. Tlw game 
resumed-at the start of the 
ninth inning. 
The game ended at 12:35 
p.m. PDT Wednesday, exactly 41 1/2 hours after its selwd­uled starting time of 7:05 p.m. Monday. It was the first ganw in Oakland suspPnded because of nrrfew since Aug. 10, 1972. ThP game rt~sunwd under a partly doudy sky. a stark con­trast to the miserable weather that tormented the teams on Monday and forcml rain delays of 3 l/2 hours bnfore it was suspended after eight innings. 
Hiek Krivda ( 1-0). who 
pitr.lll'd 2 2-3 innings on 
Monday, got the win. Paul 
Assmunacher got tlw first two 
outs of the ninth inning 
Wednesday, and .Jackson got 
his ;\I.-leading fourth savn as 
thP Indians improved to 7-0. 
Tom Candiotti (0-2) allowed live runs -two Parned -and , four hits in four innings as the 
A's starter on Monday. 
David .Justice hit a solo homer and sacrifice f'ly for Clevt>land. Pat Bordprs had a two-run double and Kenny Lofton added an HBI single. .Jason Giambi hit a two-run homer for the Athletics off Krivda. Ben Grieve and Magadan added HBI doubles and Kevin Mitchell had an HBI single. 
Toronto 9, Minnesota 6 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Shawn Green homered for 
the third consecutive game and 
Jose Canseco had four hits to 
lead the Toronto Blue Jays to a 
9-6 victory over the Minnesota 
Twins on Wednesday night. 
Green and Canseco each 
drove in two runs, including 
one apiece in a four-run first inning, to help Pat llentgen survive the worst outing of his career against Minnesota. 
llentgen (1-0) g~ve up six runs in 5 2-3 innings. lie hadn't allowed an earned run against tlw Twins since a 2-1 loss May 15,1996. Hentgen, who is now 10-l for his career against Minnesota. had given 
up just 1<J  earned runs in 1!i  
earner  starts  before  
WPdnesday.  

Pat Mearns drove in three runs for Minnesota. all off llentgen. lie had been 1-for-19 vvith six strikeouts in his career against llnntgen. 
But it didn't matter as the Twins made two errors in the first inning. another in Toronto's two-run eighth and starter LaTroy llawkins (0-1) gave up five runs on five hits and four walks in three innings. 
The Twins rallied in the eighth. loading the bases with two outs. but Handy Myers came in to strike out Brent Gatos. Myers loaded the bases with two outs in the ninth but picked up his second save when shortstop Alex Gonzalez made a diving stop of a ground ball by Ron Coomer and got the force out al second. 
Toronto took advantage of llawkins' wildness and the Twins' sloppy defense to take a 5-0 lead after its half of the second inning. 
A throwing error by catcher Terry Steinbach and another error by Coomer at third base helped the first six Blue .Jays reach base. 
After Green's RBI single, Canseco hit a liner that right fielder Alex Ochoa was in posi­tion to catch. But Ochoa appar­ently lost the ball in the lights. turning away at the last instant to allow the ball to go to the wall for an HBI double. their 23-month drought 

Mike Stanley drove in the against llentgnn in the bottom third run on Coomer's error half. and Jose Cruz added a sacri­Todd Walker started the fice fly on a foul ball. rally with a long doublt~ to cen­
Canseco's run-scoring single ter. Steinbach walked and in the second made it 5-0 Meares lined a two-run double before the Twins finally ended down the left finld line. 
The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. <It the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at :'109 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day clas­
-Classifieds 
sifieds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classilleds lor content without i"uing rd[rnds. 
NOTICES 
Causes! Causes! Causes! We want exciting causesI Activists, activists. activists! We want pure unadulterated activists! Do you want to act up, never mind what exactly for or why!? We want you' We are here to promote activism ­in all generality and all beauty · Progressive as can be Student Activist Alliance People 
(P.a.c.b.S.A.A.P.) 
I LOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Man's silver braceletsome­
where on campus. Great senti­
mental value. Please call Danny at 
273-0147. Reward offered. 
THAN X 
L___w:_f\_N_T_E_D_ ___JI 
CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR JOBS -Excellent benefits. World TraveL Ask us how! 517-324-3090 ext. C55841 ---------Need a summer job? NO Alums looking for a warm. energetic student to care for our 3 children (ages 5, 3 & new­born). Daytime hours, no week­ends. June-mid·August. Live in or out (private bed/bath). Great loca­tion in Pasadena. CA. Will pay travel to/from CA. Negotiable wage. Call Mimi @ 626-794-5426 ore­mail MimiandPT@msn.com 
SUMMER AND FALL EMPLOY­MENT: DECISION SCIENCES JOURNAL Student who can work 8-12 hours per week. Must have an eye for detail, organized & able to work independently. For more informa­tion call Lori Butchko, 631-9084, MW 8-5 or Friday 8-noon. 
Need 1 roommate for summer. 
7 mins from campus. 
Pool, tennis courts,$230/month 
Call Jeremy 273-5463 
Sales/Marketing Internships University Directories is hiring stu­dents to sell yellow page advertis­ing for the official campus tele­phone directory this summer. Paid internship. Training program. Excellent sales/marketing & man­agement experience. Call 1-800-743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.universitydirectories.com 
IL.___F_O_R_RE_N_T_ _, 
Now Renting Campus View 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks from campus 272-1441 
Very Reasonable Rent Looking for mature adult, or grad student. 
Send inquiries to: 
PTS 
1705 South Bend Ave. 
So. Bend, IN 46637 1 bdrm apt 
for summer 
243-4920 
College Park Apartment 
For Rent During 
Summer Session 
Call4-4012 
Nice 5 bdrm. 2 bath full basement. Walking distance to campus. 350/rm. utilities & appL. W/D incL Taking deposits for 
98-99 scL yr. 277-5483. 
Furn. room, air, kitchen, private entrance, phone, laundry facilities, utilities included. $200/mo. 
272-0615. 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE 
'98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR. WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE. 234-3831/ 273-0482 
FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM­PUS.WASHER/DRYER FALUSUMMER.272-6551 
1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
College Park Apartment for SUBLET for 2 month minimum. Maximum of 4 people to rent. $175 per person. Willing to negotiate. CALL 273-9235 Rooms in private house. 
1 mi from NO, Summer rentaL 
Greg 634-0766. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES 
NOW LEASING 2 HOMES Capacity from 6 -9 students Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in student populated areas. Completely remodeled and ready for the 98/99 schoolyear. Call Kramer at 674-2571 or 289-5999. SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE Lease from June to Aug. 1, All houses are surrounded by other student rentals. Call Kramer at 674­2571 or 289-5999. 
1014 N. St. Louis St. 4 bdrms, 2 baths, all appliances, furnished. Walking distance to cam­pus. 234-1440. 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
Interested in subletting a 2 Bdrm College Park Apartment for the Summer? Call 4-3857 Best Offer. 
For rent: summer sublet at college park (2 bedroom, 2 bathroom) call Katie: 243·8503 
FOR SALE 
1984 Volkswagen Cabaret convert. 5-speed, 50,000 mi. Stored winters. $2,995. 674-5104 Bob Hull 
For Sale, 90' Honda Accord (Whk) 
$3,500 OBO. Email : vlow or call 
Vince @ 257 1734 
FURNITURE-All kinds. low prices. from a CP apt.-call271-7458 
PERSONAL 
Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale MaiL Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID -1/2 price field fee. 291-2540. 
Are you looking for something other than a furry white rabbit to cuddle up with this Easter? Why not try a hot Italian stud like me........... Just give me a call, and I will show you everything you desire, 4-4334 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuit,s and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a newborn with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
happy happy easter 
Mark-who else can i spend a whole hour contemplating the flavors of jelly bellies with? Ahd not even know the time has gone by? 
you like being parliamentarian. you know you do. 
episcopalian ... that's an interesting 
idea. Wanted: one mechanical bull and one leather-clad cowboy to ride it. call x1997 
Austin Power, he's our man 

Have a good break everyone. try not to miss the Observer too much I want to go home Let's go Mets How many days of school are left? Hey Tom!! 1 mississippi, 2 mississippi, 
3 mississippi ... Be sure to catch the Notre Dame 
Folk Choir on NBC on Easter Sunday. They're fantastic! Sean --you are just so cooL Primetime will win Bookstore XXVII 
without a doubt hey, why can't we do that? Happy easter boys and girls I think I saw a puty cat .... I did! I 
did! Oh Easter bunny! Someone please get me out of this 
place 

't  
Thursday, April 9, 1998  The Observer • SPORTS  page 15  
•NHL  

Oilers lose ground in playoff race with 4-2 loss 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 
Steve Rucchin scored midway through the third period as the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim defeated Edmonton 4-2 Wednesday night, slowing the Oilers' race for a playoff posi­tion. 
The loss denied the Oilers the chance to move into a tic for sixth place in the Western Conference. 
Rucchin skated around the net. fought off a check by for­mer Duck Bobby Dallas and put a shot from the edge of the right .circle past Edmonton goaltender Curtis Joseph at 
11 :01 of the third period for his 17th goal. 
Homan llamrlik's apparent game-tying goal with 40.6 sec­onds Inn was nullified when refcrep. Stephen Walkcllll ruled Hyan Smyth was in the crease. Tcemu Sclannc sealed the vic­tory with a shorthanded empty­rwt goal with (>.6 seconds left. Tlw goal was Selanne's 52nd, breaking his own franchise n~cord set last season. 
Goaltender Mikhail Shtalenkov stopped 30 shots while Tomas Sandstrom scored in the first period and Josef Marha in the second for Anaheim, which was math­ematically eliminated from playoff contention when Edmonton defeated Vancouver 3-2 Monday night. 
Smyth and Scott Fraser scored first-period power-play goals and Joseph made 20 saves for Edmonton in front of an announced capacity crowd of 17,154 at the Anaheim Arena. The Oilers remained tied with San Jose and Chicago for seventh with 72 points. 
Smyth pushed in a rebound of Bill Guerin's shot to open the scoring with a power-play goal 
2:18 into the first period. 10 seconds after Drew Bannister's cross-checking penalty. 
The Oilers increased their lead to 2-0 at 5:24 of the first when Fraser skated past Bannister to put a rebound of his own shot past Shtalenkov for his ninth. 
Sandstrom cut the deficit to 2­1 when he took David Karpa's pass just inside the red line, skated down the right wing two strides past the blue line and put a slap shot past Joseph for his ninth goal. 
Marha tied the score 2-2 with an unassisted goal at 14:21 of the second period, taking the puck off Joseph's stick as the Edmonton goaltender tried to clear the puck. 
Dallas 2, Washington 1 
Jamie Langenbrunner's goal with 1:32 left in overtime lifted the Dallas Stars to a 2-1 victory over Washington on Wednesday night, ending the Capitals' five­game unbeaten streak. 
The Capitals had tied it with 
5:54 left in regulation on Andrei Nikolishin's fourth goal. But Langenbrunner scored the game-winner on a wrist shot from the slot. 
The Stars, attempting to get back on track following a 2-5-1 slump, improved to 101 points, two better than the Detroit Red Wings in the race for the best record in the Western Conference. 
Washington is trying to hold on to the fourth seed and first­round home-ice advantage in the Eastern Conference play­offs. The Capitals maintained the position by one point over three teams, Montreal, Boston and Buffalo, a 3-1 winner Wednesday night over Carolina. 
Washington tied it 1-1 when Petr Bondra stole the puck from defenseman Darryl Sydor and passed to Nikolishin, who stuffed a shot between the post and goaltender Ed Belfour. 
But Dallas got its second straight victory when Jere Lehtinen caused a turnover in overtime behind the Washington net and' passed to Langenbrunner, who fired the puck past Olaf Kolzig for his 22nd. 
Dallas took the lead at 4:26 of the second on Brian Skrudland's first goal for the Stars. Skrudland, obtained on March 24 in a trade with the New York Rangers, notched his sixth on a slap shot from the top of the left circle that rolled into the net off the glove of Kolzig. 

'\'1 Tith 80 years of leadership experience in our 
VVfield, TIAA-CREF is eminently qualified to 
help you build a comfortable, worry-free retirement. 
Our references are equally impeccable-today, 
two miliion of the best minds in America trust us 
with their financial future. 
Allow us to review our qualifications. 
Superior strength 
With $200 billion in assets, TIAA-CREF is the 
world's largest retirement organization-and 
among the most solid. TIAA is one of only a 
handful of companies to have earned top ratings 
for financial strength, and CREF is one of Wall 
Street's largest investors.' 
Solid, long-tenn performance 
We seek out long-term opportunities that other 
companies, in pursuit of quick gains, often miss. 
Though past performance can't guarantee Future 
results, this patient philosophy has proven 
extremely rewarding. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.'" 
Surprisingly low expenses TIAA-CREF's operati~g costs are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries. Therefore, more ofyour money goes where it should -towards ensuring your future.' Easy diversification We offer a wide variety of expertly managed invest­ment options to help build your assets. With stock, bond, money market, and real estate accounts-as well as a guaranteed annuity to choose from­TIAA-CREF makes diversification easy. Unrivaled service We believe that our service distinguishes us from .every other retirement company. In a recent·hation­wide survey of retirement plans, TIAA-CREF was voted number one in customer satisfaction.3 If you work in education, research, or related fields~ why not put TIAA-CREF's experience to work For you? To find out more, visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call us at 1 800 842-2776. 

2/98 


some-
thi~g to say? 
LAse Obse!"'Vel"' classifieds 
251-0674 
MATUBA 

JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chefin Town! 

2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
!unthll \1r • '11rHr.-,'\1nrrf"rt~,\o\tr<'l.:f-;," 
BOOK SEARCH 

• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 ., • Nationall•,>-circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday thro~gh Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

\ r '1nr·n 16 ('."J }J( )lj? o '"'n•wU) r,r!l' 6\?~ 1 .r· lnqA .v· · 
page 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 9, I 998 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
_.. 
Upcoming matches will challenge Irish 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint M.~ry\ Editor 
!loping to construct a rPnewed win 
strPak, Notre l>anw will attpmpt to uti­
lizP tlwir nPxt thwe matdws as building 
blocks to surn~ss. 
Tlw IPVP] of intensity will rise with 
Parh rnatrh as tlw Irish visit Ball State 
today, No.7 Texas on Saturday, and No. 
h Illinois on r'>londay. 
"WI' havP a hard stn~trh of matches 
alwad of us." said coach Bob Bayliss. 
"We nPPd to play through in each onP of 
tlwm. WI' want to control our quality of 
play." 
So far this season. the Irish have basi­
cally bP!'n abiP to play dirtator over 
tlwir gnwling sdwdule. 
Although not including their loss to 
BoisP Statt>, Notre Dame has jumped 10 
spots in tlw ITA rankings to No. 14 and 
boasts a I:{-4 record. 
Tlw match will sel1lll morP likn a sci­
ence projnct than a sport wlwn thn Irish 
PXpl'rinwnt with tlwir linPup against the 
unrankPd, 4-10 Cm·dinals. 
.lakub PiPtrowski, who plays No. 2 sin­
gl11s and No. I doubles, will take the 
lwnrh due to a sore nlhow that has 
plaguPd him for two ynars. 
By placing Pietrowski on reserve and 
bumping up the linhup with Andy 
Warford filling it at No. (,, tlw Irish plan 
on utilizing the senior in tlw next two 
touglwr matches. 
"I Not playing PietrowskiI will be a big loss for us," Bayliss said. "lie's bPen one of our solid guys." 
Matt llalv will fill in for Pietrowski in 
doubles a·nd the duo will bP puslu~d 
down to No. ]. 
Tlw Cardinals, who werP picked to bt\Cilll1P rPpnat Mid -American Conference champions, will most likely suffer to a greater extreme with the loss of' Bryan Smith, who is rankPd in thn top 50. 
The Irish will most likely execute a bulldozing over Ball State before taking the next step against Texas. 
"It's really tough to play down there," said Hyan Sachire, ranked 20th in the nation. "We're not used to that heat, 
------RPORT
RAGE 
256·3044 
Student Discount Available for Four-Month Rentals 
" 
Comer of Mayflower & Edison Roads 
and they get lots of' peopiP out for their 
matclws." 
Sarhire will most likely face Paul 
Martin of' England. Martin is known for 
his hard serves and Pll'ective forehand. 
''I'll IWPd to be consistent," said 
Sachirn. 'Til have to try to put the pres­
surP on him." 
Besides the wnathnr. Notre Dame will 
also have to battle Texas' quick courts 
and tnndcncy to alternate tlw lineup. 
Martin, Nick Crowell, ILl. Sterns and 
a nnw French player· who is usually at 
No. 3 are all capable of changing posi­
tions. 
"Tiwy havn a pretty loaded lineup at 
any and every position," said Bayliss. 
"They'rn a tPam with enough talent to 
push the national championship." 
If Notre Danw can turn around their 
f'our-gamn losing pattern to Texas, they 
may accumulate enough momentum to 
make it to Illinois without a plane. 
A possible national championship pre­
view match will take place against 
Illinois as the Irish engage in thn pinna­
cle of' their regular season. 
Thn Fighting lllini and the Fighting 
Irish may !nave the courts bloodstained 
in the furious battle of the rivals. 
"It's the match we look forward to the 
most," said Sachire. whose team has 
won the last eight mHntings against 
Illinois. "It will be an intense match. A 
lot of it is basically for bragging I'ights." 
But this year Notre Dame may be humbled. 
Illinois is currently ranked first in region, holds a 10-5 overall record and are 3-0 in tlw Big Ten conferencf1. 
The players also threatrn an imposing challenge. Their top three are all over 6-f'oot-3 and deliver some of the biggest hits in all collegiate tennis. 
Oliver Freelove defeated Sachire in the fall in straight sets, and Galvin Sontag, whom the Irish heavily recruit­ed, boasts the team's strongest serves. 
Freelove and Sontag, along with Cary Freelove, are all ranked within the top 70. 
Although Illinois has recorded wins over top ranked teams like Northwestern, UCLA. Pepperdine, Mississippi State and UNLV, the lllini have crumbled against the talent of Southern Alabama, Boise State, Georgia, and Stanford. 
The match outcome may again depend on weather, however. 
"The key ingredient for us may be in it doesn't rain," Bayliss explained. 

"I Illinois lis] at their best indoors; so f'a1· they are ranked on outdoor success." But indoor or outdoor, thn Irish think that they are up to thn challeng1~. 
"We're two of the top teams in tlw region," said Sachire. "This is as big of' a rivalry as you get. Wn can gnt up on any day for this." 

invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the academy. 
If you are looking for: 
(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, 

(2) 
without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(3) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor David O'Connor, O'Connor.2@nd.edu. You may also pick up a paper application from Coleen Hoover in the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shaughnessy. The application deadline is April13. Acceptances will be announced April14. 
Thursday, April 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame began the scoring in that inning when a double by Alec Porzel and a single by Todd Frye scored Brant Ust and Dan Leatherman to tie the game. 
The hits by Porzel, who also scored twice, and Frye, who was 3-for-3 with a run scored, snemed to wake up the rest of the Irish bats. 
"Porzel and Frye seemed to get nveryone going," Mainieri said. "Once we got those clutch hits, it seemed as if everyone was ready to hit." 
During the inning, the Irish sent 12 players to the plate, and everyone either scored a run or drove one in. 
With catcher Mike Knecht 
batting and Porzel on third, the 
Irish took the lead on a bizarre 
play. Knecht tried to lay down a 
squeeze bunt with Porzel 
breaking for home, but Knecht 
fouled the pitch oiT. When 
Knecht tried to do it again, the 
Cougars were ready for it and 
called a pitchout. 
Porzel was caught between third base and home with nowhere to go. But when Cougar catcher Scott llordecki chased him back toward third, his throw to third baseman Craig Majdecki was muffed, and Porzel was able to scramble home with the run. 
Tho missed throw was one of 
two errors by Majdecki in the 
inning. which led to five 
• 
it wasn't a desperate situation for us, because we knew we were going to score runs at some point." 
Game notes: 
• 
Jeff Felker and Dan Leatherman both had eight­game hitting streaks snapped last night. Felker walked twice and Leatherman walked once. They were the only two starters • for the Irish not to get at least one hit. 

• 
Playing first base in the ninth inning, Felker leaped for a high throw from Ust and was knocked down by Majdecki, the base run­ner. Felker suffered a bruised hip and is questionable for to.day's doubleheader with Hutgers, Mainieri said. 


The doubleheader, which will be held at Frank Eck Stadium, begins at noon. 
• 
Brock's home run in the first inning extended the team's streak of consecutive games with at least one home run to 13. 

• 
A day after Jeff Wagner tied Notre Dame's record for most home runs in a career with his 37th, he went 2-for-5 with a run scornd, but had no homers. 


"fWagnerJ has got a year and a half to break the record," Mainieri said. "He's going to break it eventually, so there's no reason to even worry about it. I don't think he's putting any extra pressure on himself. He 

The Observer/Manuela Hernandez
just wants to win." 
Saint Mary's shutout Olivett in the first game 4-0, but fell7-6 in the second. 
Interested in being on the SLF committee next year? 
Pick up an application outside 
Due Friday,
the SUB office. 
April l7 
~ For information call jim Bilek at 4-1744 
unearned runs for the Irish. 
• SAINT MJ.uw's SOFTBAlL
When the inning was finally over, the Irish had a command­ing 11-5 lead. 
"We were down to our last 
Belles split doubleheader 
several outs," Mainieri said, "but 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Sporrs Writer 
The Belles nearly pulled it off, but simply ran out of hits before staging a comeback in the sec­ond game of a double header yesterday. 
Saint Mary's beat Olivett in the first game 4-0, and nearly won the second, but ended up drop­ping it 7-6 in extra innings. The Belles dominated the first victo­ry, led by the outstanding offense of Tricia Klockner and great defense of third basemen, 
L.P. Arena. 
"L.P. played great defense," said coach Bruce Huff. "That's why we call Arena 'The Wall.' She's like a vacuum cleaner out there." 
Again, Liz Shevik pitched very strongly in the first and second games. She started the first and came in late in the second. 
"I was happy with my perfor­mance because Olivett was sup­posed to be a great hitting team," said Shevik of her outing yesterday. 
The second game started out rough for the Belles. They led 6­1 in the top of the 5th. Anne Senger was the starting pitcher, but Ruff substituted Shevik in the 5th. 
"Anne did a good job," Huff said. "She just started to tire down. She held in there as long as she could." 
Saint Mary's did not let that faze them. They staged a gteat comeback in the 6th and 7th innings. Shevik held Olivett and some outstanding offense which scored five runs in two innings, making it 6-6 ih the 7th. 
Johna Indriolo was a key fac­tor in this game, hitting a 2-run homerun in the bottom of the 6th inning. In the extra innings, Olivett came back to score and the Belles were unable to answer and ended up losing 7 ­6 in the 8th inning. 
Olivett was an important con­ference match up, and the team was generally happy with its performance. 
"Both games really were a team effort," said Shevik. "We all played really well. We would have liked to have taken both, but, even though we lost the sec­ond game, we were glad to be able to come back." 
On Saturday, the Belles have an important game against Alma, the number one ranked team in the MIAA. 
"It is one of our biggest games because they are ranked num­ber one in the conference," said coach Ruff. "If we play solid ball, we will take two from them." 


Call your mom. Tell everyone you're calling your girl. 
1-800-COLLECT ® 

page 18 
• WOMEN's GOLF 

By GENE BRTALIK 
Spons Writer 
Throughout the rou1·se of an season. freshman members of a team are expeeled to develop and eventually aid the team wlwn various mmnbers aren't performing to their ability. 
Such was the case last week­end when tlw Notre Dame women's golf team traveled down to Indiana to take part in tlw Indiana Invitational. 
The team finished sixth in the 15 team tournament, post­ing scores of 314. :~22 and 316 for a combined total of 953. The women were only one stroke higher than Wisconsin's 952 and seven behind fourth place Minnesota. 
The Irish stood in fourth place after the first round due largely in part to an outstaning perlcll'lnnce turned in by fresh­man Mary Klein. Klein shot a 3 under 71 on 6.134 yard cours1~ and was in a three-way tie for first after the first round. The 71 ties the lowest round by a Notre Dame woman's golfPr in the history of the program. 
Klein played the second round later that day, linishing with an 80 which was good enough for a second place tie. In the final round, she shot a 79 and finished the tourna­ment with a 230 and a fifth place finish. the best of' her short career. ller 54-hole score was the fifth best score ever and was two strokes bet­ter than the 54 hole score of' 232 set by her sister Crissy Klein in the 1991-1992 OSU Invitational. 
The team dicin't seem to be rusty after having a three week absence from tournament play. Senior Katie King contin­ued her strong play with a total or 240 and a 23rd place finish. Following King on the leaderboard were sophomore Andrea Klee {245), senior Tracy Melby {249), and sopho­more Beth Cooper {256). 
King and Klee both remain on pace for the first and third best season stroke averages in Irish women's golf history with a 79.95 and 80.53, respective­ly. King also leads them in spring stroke average with a 77.00. 
The Irish stood 11th in the district before last weekend's play. Their next two tcmrna­ments at the University of Illinois and Ohio State will give an indication of whether or not the team will receive an invita­tion to participate in the NCM East regional this May. 
THE NOTRE DAME POMPON SQUAD 
will be holding TRYOUTS for the 1998-1999 Squad! 
April16-April20 
COME TO THE FIRST CLINIC 
Apri116; 6-9 pm 
JACC-Auxiliary Gym (Pit) 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 9, 1998 

Lakers roll to victory, 113-102 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD. Calif. 
If Vancouver is in town, chalk up another victory for the Los Angeles Lakers. Shaquille O'Neal scored 30 points and Eddie Jones added 26 as the Lakers stayed perfect against the Grizzlies with their 11th consecutive win in the tlm~e-year-old series, 11 :~-1 02 Wednesday night. 
The Lakers gained a half­game on idle Seattle for the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoff race with their sixth straight vietory. O'Neal and Eddie Jones eom­binrd for the Lakers' first 10 points of the fourth quartnr, pushing the lead to 97-RO with less thaneight minutes remain­ing. 
Jones had two of his five 3­pointers, matching a career high, in that span. Mario Bennett had 12 points and 13 rebounds starting in place of injured Lakers forward Hobert Horry. 
Shareef Abdur-Hahim led Vancouver with 26 points and Blue Edwards had 20. Grizzlies center Bryant Heeves sprained his right knee and did not return after halftime. lie had six points and seven rebounds in 21 minutes. 
Even when the Grizzlies thought they had a good look. the Lakers stopped them, blocking a season-high 15 shots. Los Angeles exceeded its scoring average of 111.4 points over the last live games, but for the first time in that stretch the Lakers failed to 
-shoot better than 51 percent, finishing at 48 percent. 
Holding a slim six-point half­time lead, the Lakers went to work in the third quarter. Getting points from six play­ers, they outscored the Grizzlies 23-13 ovnr tlu~ first nine minutes for an S1-65 lead. 
O'Neal even had a chance to rest near the end of tlw spurt before returning to score three points late in the period. The Grizzlies led by six in tlw first quarter when Abdur-Hahim had 11 points. But it was short-lived as tlw Laknrs outscored them 22-S at the beginning of the second pnriod to take a 47-36 lead. 
O'Neal had the crowd gasp­ing with a behind-the-back bounce pass along tlw baselin1~ to Corie Blount. who dunked. Reeves shook off an 0-for-5 start with six points and lvano Newbill hit a 3-pointPr at tlw halftime buzzer. 
Utah 9S, San Antonio SS 
With David Hobinson out with a concussion caus11d by Karl Malone's inadvertent elbow, Malone scored 32 points as the Utah Jazz b1~at the San Antonio Spurs 9S-SS Wednesday night to clinch the Midwest Division title for the second straight year. 
Hobinson was guarding Malone in the lane 2 1/2 min­utes into the game when the Utah star took a pass from John Stockton and turned to the basket. Malone's elbow caught Hobinson on the right side of the head and tlw San Antonio 7-footer dropped to the floor unconscious. 
lie regained consciousness about two minutes later and was helped off' the floor by trainers and doctors. lie dressed and was taken to LDS Hospital in Salt Lake City for observation and a CAT sean. 
The sean prov11d no further neurological damage beyond the concussion, but he was being kept ovnrnight at the 
hospital for obsnrvation. 

Malone, who scornd an NBA season-high 56 points tlw pn~­vious night against Colden State, was 10-for-21 from tlw f'inld and 12-for-1 (, from the foul li1w against the Spurs. liP also grablwd I 0 rn bounds l'or tlw Jazz. who mov1~d a ganw in front of idle SIHtttle for tlw best record in tlw Western 
C:onl'ernnc1~. 

Stockton scored 17 points and Jeff llornacek had 15 l'or Utah. 
Duncan had :H points for San Antonio, which is a half­game ahead of Phoenix for tlw fourth-best n~corrl in tlw West. 
Tlw .Jazz led by as many as nine points early in the third quart1•r but by only 7(,-7:~ with 
R:31 to play after a thrne-point play by Duncan. 
Utah rebuilt its lm1d to 1\3-76 after a 3-pointer by Chris Morris with (,:5S ldt. Jan~n Jackson's :~-point1~r cut it to 85-R1 but Malonn answered with a basket. Carl lln1Tera's jumper sliced Utah's lead to 1\7-8:{. but Bryon Bussell hit a basket and a :{-pointer for a 92-83 .Jazzlead with 2:14 to play. 
A 3-pointer by Jackson with 
1:28 left made it 92-88, but Malon1~ hit a jump1~r and Chris Morris bloeked a layup atll~ m p t by Du n can w i t h 3 0 s1~eonds n~maining. 
The Spurs led 35-29 with 
5:31 left in the first hall'. thanks in part to live straight points by Duncan midway through tlw second period. Tlwn, trailing 40-:H with :~: 13 left in the half. tlH' Jazz outscored the Spurs I 1-3 tho n~st of the period. 
MaloiH~ scored eight points in the run, lwlped by a flagrant l'oul against Will Perdue and an illegal defense t1H:hnieal against the Spurs. 
HOME OF THE READY-TO-WEAR MEAL 
:~~=~~--.~~:~-:~;~tt:~: ....,~....~ !fi.·:~_.._::. ~~l~y~~~-f ~-~ ~-~... t•':·\· .•_~.>~:··~ ~<-,' 
~a-(ote~:·:!~:lND -'A··IfALF WEST OF·,THE .. HA 
L_____ _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Thursday, April 9, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
Runners seek revenge at Miami Invitational 
Irish hope to iden­tify competitors for Big East meet 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Spons Writer 
On Saturday, the Notre Dame track and field team will have an opportunity to turn the tables on Miami (Ohio) in the Miami Invitational after losing to Miami in a home quadrangu­lar last weekend. 
Seven teams will participate in the Miami Invitational, inrluding Western Michigan (which also beat the Fighting Irish in the Notre Dame home meet), Central Michigan and Louisville. It is a scored meet, but according to distance coach Tim Connelly, the Irish will be concerned more with developing athletes to be able to better compete later in the snason than with scoring points. 
"As far as the field events, I'm going to start narrowing down," said field events coach Scott Winsor. "We need to come up with who's going to be competing at the Big East meet." 
Some likely contenders for points in the field events are 
r----------------------------------------------, 
CASTING & ANGLING 
CLINIC Three Sessions 6:00-7: 15 PM Open to ND Students & Employees $8.00 Class Fee 

L 
Classes Held in the joyce Center, 1 I Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
Marshaun West in the long jump, Mike Brown in the pole vault, and Jennifer Engelhardt and Kelle Saxen in the high jump. 
"Our main focus is the Big East meet, and has been all season," said 800-meter run­ner Phil Mishka, who took first in last Saturday's meet. "A few of us half-milers haven't run the times we would like at this point in the season, so this meet is another chance to do just that-run those times." 
Connelly will put some younger runners such as Bridget O'Brien and Erin Olson in the 5,000-meter run. O'Brien and Olson ran well in the 3,000 last week. 
For the 1,500 meter run. he will stick with the team of Erin Luby, Erin Newman, Cara Motter and Patti Rice. Nicole LaSelle will compete in the 3,000 meter run in her first race back after a cross coun­try injury. 
"I just want to get her com­peting and get her confident again," Connelly said. "This is asking a lot in a relatively short amount of time. but I'd like to sec her headed in the direction of scoring at the Big East, and potentially being an NCAA qualifier." 
. The sprinters will also look to improve upon their times as the season is progressing. The 4x100-meter relay squad of West, Errol Williams, Chris Cochran and Kevin Reher which won last weekend will compete with the goal of hav­ing smoother handoffs. 
Williams will aim for a per-

The Observer/Joe Stark 

Carrie Lenz and the Irish will compete in a quadrangular meet. 
sonal record and NCAA quali­200-meter dash and Nadie fying time in the 110-meter Schmiedt will participate in hurdles, West will run the both hurdles events. 

Palm/Passion Sunday, April 5, 1998 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Holy Week 
5:00pm (Saturday) 
10:00 am 12 noon 
Thesday. April 7 7:00pm 
9:30pm 
Holy Thursday, April 9 9:00am 5:00pm *6:30pm 11:00pm Vigil Mass Solemn Mass with procession outside Sunday Mass with procession outside 
Campus-wide Stations of the Cross (Procession departs from the Grotto.) Opportunity for individual confession follows 
Stations in the Basilica. 
Morning Prayer Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper Adoration in the Lady Chapel Tenebrae 
*Sacred Heart Basilica will remain open from 6:30pm until 12:30 am. 

Confessions durin~: Holy Week Monday Tuesday Wednesday 
Holy Thursday
0MPUS 
Good Friday 
Holy Saturday
t\111Nt5TRY 
Good Friday, April tO 9:00am Morning Prayer 
12:00 noon-3:00pm Silent Hours of Prayer 3:00pm Celebration of the Lord's Passion 7:15pm Stations of the Cross *Sacred Heart Basilica will be closed at 8:00 pm. 
... 

Holy Saturday, Aprilll 9:00am Morning Prayer 9:00pm The Paschal Vigil *Sacred Heart Basilica will be closed from 12:00 noon until 6:00 pm. 
Easter Sunday, April12 +8:00am Easter Sunday Mass 
·­

10:00 am Solemn Mass 
12:00 noon Easter Sunday Mass 7:15pm Solemn Easter Vespers +This is an additional Mass only for Easter Sunday. 
11:00 am, 5:00pm & 7:00pm 11 :on am, 5:00pm, 7:00pm & 9:30pm 11:00 am, 5:00pm & 7:00pm 
11:00 
am & 7:00pm 11:00 am-12:00 noon, 1:00pm & 7:00pm 

11:00 
am & 7:00pm 



Pulling Together 
Notre Dame's crew team f1as quickly become one of the largest and most popular club programs on campus 
By TIM CASEY Sporrs Writer 
As one of the most popular rlub teams on campus, the crew team epitomizes what is good about Notre Dame's club pro­grams. 
Dt)spite not being recognized as a varsity sport. the team's popularity and dedication can­not be questioned. The team consists of 96 men and women in both the novice and varsity divisions, which makes crew the biggnst dub sport here at Notre Dame. 
Crnw consists of two divisions, tlw lightweight and open divi­sion. The lightweight division for men is under 160 pounds, whiiP for the wonwn. it is under 
I :w pounds. There are four and night-pt~rson boats, with each boat also having a cox. The cox is instrumontal in the steering of the boat and is the only member of the team who faces the finish line. 
The fall season begins a week after school starts and continues until November. In the fall, the team competes in head races, which are usually three-mile­long races, and which test the team's endurance. 
The head races are contested with a staggered start, meaning that the teams compete against the dock instead of all racing at the same time. This year, the tnam traveled to Philadelphia to compete in the Head of the Schoykill. They raced against vnry tough competition. includ­ing many college and dub toams and against the United States national team. 
The team also traveled to Austin. Texas, during spring break to begin the spring sea­son. In the spring, the team 
.. 
Notre Dame &lew Sclledule 
April18 
Southern Intercollegiate Rowing Association 
Oak Ridge, TN 
April25 
Midwest Sprints Championships 
Madison, WI 
May 8-9 
Dad Vail Regatta 
Philadelphia, PA 
May 10 
Champion International Collegiate Regatta 
Wooster, MA 
May 29-30 
Intercollegiate Rowing Association 
Camden, NJ 
The Observer/Melissa Weber 
competes on shorter courses, usually 2000 meters in length. 
The team has been busy as of late, competing this past week­end in Chicago against Minnesota and Northwestern, and two weeks ago, hosting a race with the men taking on Michigan and the women com­peting against Grand Valley College from Michigan. 
And they looked very impres· sive this past weekend. In varsi­ty competition, the women's lightweight team came in sec­ond, while the men's lightweight team placed first. The novice rowers fared well also, with both women's open teams winning their heats as well as the men's open team winning their race. 
The team will continue its busy schedule in the upcoming weeks, as they travel to Oakridge, Tennessee, to com­pete in the Southern Intercollegiate Bowing champi­onships on the weekend of April 17th-19th. 
The next weekend. the team will compete in the Midwest rowing championships in Madison, Wisconsin. On May 8­
10. the team will send one boat each to Philadelphia for the Dad Vail regatta and to Worcester, Massachusetts. for the Champion Intercollegiate regat­ta. 
President Mike Kroeger is in charge of the team, while Rob Marock and Beth Wood serve as captains of the men's and women's teams. The women's coarh is Bing Cheng and the men's coach is Mark Mangnlsdorl". 
The women's team is looking forward to rwxt season. when they will beconw the hitest varsi­ty team on campus. The bene­fits of being rneognized as a var­sity team indudP better equip­nwnt, morn opportunities to race. and in general. much more 
-.. ~. .... -'.
~ ~ 
• tl' L,. _. .,. •• .J 
funding to help defray costs and help spur interest in crew. Women's crew is growing as a varsity sport around the country, as is evident by the newly sanc­tioned NCAA women's rowing championships. 
Notre Dame has hired a coach for their newest varsity team; all the women know him well. This year's novice coach, Martin Stone, will serve as the women's varsity coach and bring many years of experience to his newly appointed position. 
Junior Colleen Kraft is one of the women who is excited about the prospects of a varsity team -"We are all looking forward to next year. It will lwlp things tremendously and wtJ've b!Jen lucky to get to know and train with our coach before the sea­son begins." 

Top: Crew team members competed last weekend against Minnesota and Northwestern. Above: Rowers return the boat to storage after a practice on the St. Joseph's River. Photos by Jeff Hsu 
Thursday, April 9, 1998 
C t h J ff W · The Observer/John Daily a c er e agner 1s one home run shy of Notre D~e·s all-time career high mark. 
Wagner 
continued from page 24 
As much as hitters are praised for their successful at bats. they arc criticized more for the times they fail. His fresh­man season, Wagner struck out 43 times in 181 at bats, a strikeout 1wery 4.20 at bats. In 1996 he improved that number to 7.82 -28 whiffs in 219 at bats. This season. Wagner has drawn more walks (14) than strikeouts ( 12) and his at bats per strikeout has dropped to 9.75. 
Those an~ the numbers that the coaches -and the major league scouts -notice. They indicate a hitter, not just a power hitter. 
"!Wagner's] a legitimate power hitter at important times." Notre Dame head coach Paul Mainieri said. "A lot of his homn ~;uns have tied and won games. lie's a great hitter and a tough out. I11~'s been great his whole career." 
Whenever he hits that next home run to move him out of the th~ee-way tie with Jacobs a~d. Mike Amrhein -who hit his 37~h home run last May in a 4~3 wm over Seton Hall in the B1g East tournament-Wagner may not have too long to savor th~) spot at the top of the list. W1th Brant Ust sitting on 22 h?me runs just halfway through !~Is sophom?re s?ason, Wagner, h~e Amrhem, might be playing With the player who will one day break his record. 
"If anyone were to break the ~ecord," W_agner s~id, ''I'd want It to be him. We II see what happens. It's ~een exciting." 
lnsh bats m the last three seasons have exploded for three of th~ top five ?orne run sea­sons, m school h1~tory, with last years squad scttmg the record at 66. In 31 games so far in 1 ?98, Notre Dame has sent 45 pttches over the fences, so that rc~o~d may ~all, ~oo. . .. Its amazmg, Wagner sm~. 
A lot of us thought we wouldn t have this much power this year. It's been a pleasant surprise." 
Wagne_r. Ust (1 ~ home runs) a~d semor capt~m J.J. Brock (mne) have combmed for 30 of Notre Dame's long balls. Mee knows why. 
"These guys work hard," the hitting coach said. "They're very religious on their schedule. They work hard making them­selves better. There's no substi­tution to getting out into the batting cage and practicing. They want to be out here, they're asking to be out here, and they're here on their own. To see that, it makes it fun for me." 
The Irisah have won 11 out of 12 games since March 26, hit­ting at least one home run in each of the 12 games. Notre Dame takes that streak into two important Big East doublehead­ers against Rutgers today at high noon and against Villanova Saturday. 
With a .385 average in con­ference games this season-he began the year at .417, fifth best in Big East history ­Wagner has a pretty good chance to hit that record home run at Eck Stadium before Easter Sunday. 
Then he can go back to hitting singles and doubles to help the Irish win ballgames. 
und Results 
Team 196 def Julie's Angels Team 213 def Mind the Gap ...Mayonaisse Ska 'n Coal def Team Deuce Ball Team 541 def Team 30 Latrine II def Absolute Kurlies Team 508 def Grundle Pirates Team 333 def Nuns on the Run Team 90 def Red Stripers Toxic Shock def The 2 Pump and Dumpers Russell the Muscle def Yeah, Basketball is Neat and Fun to Play Velvet Jones def 4 Girls Who Can't Play Vatos Locos def Cinco Generales Woo's Warriors def Alotta Muffins The Grizzled 5 def The Fore Players and Donny P. Ben Hoosen and the Donkey Punches def Team 222 Amigo, Amigo def The Condiments RSVP def Lupe's Chihauhaus The Corrupters of Michael Hannigan def Team 426 Sexual Chocolate def Don't Fool Yourself Team 60 def Domebelles Fast Breaking High Men def Tell 'Em Willie Sent Ya Dark Sides def Team AOOC Team 256 def Cages Gause Still Muddy def tibby Tibby Day Day 
Haggus def the Brazilian Clayborns " 
F 

Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
all female team. This one appeared a little less intense, with the males walking away the winners. 
The Fighting Antelopes, com­posed of four sophmores and a freshman from Keenan, over­came a fiesty Give 'N Go team and cpasted to victory, 21-12. 
The Antelopes agression and rebounding wore down the all female team in the second half. Give N' Go trailed by four at the half but the Antelopes started the half with an 8-2 run. 
In the opeing round, appear­ances are made by everyone. Men's swimming head coach Tim Welsh joined four his swimmers to form The Brazilian Clay Bombs. 
"We needed a good shooter and we knew he had a good shot," junior Chris Fugate said, "so we asked him." 
A grueling battle went on next to the swim team match. Dark Sides and Team AOOC battled for the right to advance to the next round. Dark Sides ended up victorious after over an hour of basketball, 24-22. 
Few ranked teams saw action today, but fourth-ranked Still Muddy advanced over Tibby Tibby Day Day. 
The MBA Progran1 welcon1es: 


Tuesday, April 14, 1998 12:30 p.n1. Presentation followed by Q&A Jordan Auditoriun1 College of Business Adtninistration University of Notre Dan1e 
Like thousands of students before him. Jordan knows the value of an associate· s degree from Holy Cross College. It's a value measured in personal attention. Whether it's a little extra help with a history paper or guidance selecting the right courses for his plans to transfer to Notre Dame. 
.. 

With its challenging curriculum, new residential life program and low student-teacher ratio, Holy Cross provides a great start for college success. And when Jordan graduates with his associate's degree, he will have fulfilled many of the requirements for a Notre Dame degree. (As a Holy Cross student, he already takes advantage of many of Notre Dame's resources.) 
Holy Cross College. Small classes. A caring and 
" 

accessible faculty. The personal attention you need to be successful. 

-
HOLY (:ROSS COLLEGE 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 239-8400 • FAX (219) 233-7427 E-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu Web site: http://www.hcc-nd.edu 
Thursday, April 9, 1998
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~---------------­
.SOFTBAll 
... 
Irish shutout in doubleheader with Boilermakers 
By BILL HART 
Assisrant Sporrs Ediror 
Sonwtinws a team's hitting ean thrive against an oppo­nl'nl. In otlwr cases. it ran go compll'tl'ly stagnant. 
UnfortunatPly. tlw Fighting Irish softball team saw thl' later scPnario yesterday, as tlwy wl'rn swl'pt in an aftl'r­noon doubll'headcr by intra­stall' rival l'urduP at Ivy Field. 
In llw first game. iwitlwr team was able to establish any kind of offpnsivP momPnturil until tlw fourth inning, wlwn l'urduP's SkePter Nixon n•aehPd first base on a throw­ing Prror. 
AftPr advancing to third off a single and a llelder's dwien. a doublr by right fielder Mandy Smart seorPd her and team­mate Lynne Tortorelli. It turned out to be the only insuranee Boiler pitcher Slwryl Srhnvc needed, as the Irish bats were silent for most of the game. 
"I think that Purdue WOLS mueh more aggresive with tlwir bats today," head coach Liz Miller said about the visi­tor's pnrformanen. "They eame out swinging hard right from the first pitch. and they swung hard throughout both games." 
Despite a strong perfor­mance from pitcher Jennifer Sharron. whose record falls to 7-6 on the season, the Irish offense was unable to string enough hits together for the team to score. The only bright spot in the hitting lineup was leftfieldcr Daniello Klayman, who went 2-for-3 in the first game with a double in the fifth inning. 
Despite winning, Purdue actually had a worse hitting performance, going 4-for-26 for the game. 
In thP nightcap, the Boilers continued to dominate the Irish. taking a 4-0 win to swe e p t IH~ do u b I e he ad e r . UnIi k e tlw p r e v i o u s ga m e , Purdue used three runs in the first inning to take a com­manding lead. 
Samantha Mercier singled to start the inning. advanced to third off a single and a walk and scored on a fielder's c.hoice by Kristin Boland. Denise Szany, who advanced to third on <me of two throw­ing errors in the inning. scored ofT a two-out single by Mandy Smart. 
After pitcher Angela Bessolo was replaced by Kelly Nichols, Boland seorcd an unearned run off a single by Laura Bottino. The next batter then flied out. and stopped the bleeding for the Irish. 
The closest the Irish came to scoring was in the bottom of the inning. when Amy Laboe and Melanic Alkire were both hit by two consecutive pitches from Purdue's .Jenny Deno. 
Even with runners on first and second, the home team was unable to capitalize, as Deno regained control of the game and stranded them on base. At the top of the next 
inning,  the  Boilers  scored  
another  run  to put the game  
out of reach.  

The Purdue pitching staff 

shined once again, with Dono pitching a three-hit complete game for the Boilermakers. 
Nichols replaeed Bessolo in the bottom of the first and stayed in control from the sec­ond inning on, allowing only four hits over six innings. 
It was the poor hitting per­formance for the Irish, howev­Pr, that prevented them from scoring. Over the coursfl of the afternoon, the home team went 8-of-49 from the plate. Wlwn runners were in scoring position, Notn~ Dame went a dismal 0-for-16. 
"We got overanxious and we just didn't do a very good job in those situations with pitch selection," Miller said. "We were swinging at poor pitches in those situations. I think we swung at the first pitch almost every time that happened." 
With the afternoon, the Irish 
The Observe/Meg Kroener
fall to 17-18 on the season. 
Kelly Rowe completes the out in yesterday's game against Purdue. 
The sweep marked the first time Notre Dame was shut out of' a doubleheader since 1992. 
The Irish will have a chance to redeem themselves this afternoon when they host con­ference rival Seton Hall for a doubleheader today at 4 p.m. and another game on 
Saturday. The Pirates are ripe for the picking, with a 0-9 Big East record heading into Ivy Field. 
"They did the job offensively, and we didn't," Miller said. "That was the clearly the deciding factor in this game. We've just got to get the hits to win ballgamcs. There's nothing more to say than 
that." · 
4-16 :THURSDAY PEACEFEST SPRING CONaRT! 4-9pm 
Fieldhouse Mall: Hemp Jewelry, tie dye, soft drinks, and FOUR bands! 
The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
John and Anne Paulk 
Five years prior to meeting each other, John and Anne Paulk dramatically embarked upon leaving their respective gay life­styles. Their quest for answers led them to Exodus International, the nation's oldest organization aimed at helping men and women overcome their homosexual desires. It was there that they met, became friends, fell 
,., 
in love, and eventuillly married in 1992. 
Since then the Pilulks have shared their remarkilble story of transformation extensively in national and international media, including Oprah, Good Morning America, ABC's World News Tonight, ilnd most recently, in a segment that aired three weeks Z~go, 60-Minutes. 
John began a Christian ministry to help those who were searching for freedom from their homosexuality called the Portland Fellowship. Anne became president of the Oregon affiliate of Exodus International. Recently, John was hired by Dr. James Dobson, ilnd he now works for Focus on the Family. John ilnd Anne spend much of their time raising their son Timmy, who was born in December of 1996. 
John and Anne will be at Notre Dame to tell their own stories of love ilnd transformation. 
Wednesday, April15 
-
Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 8:00 p.m. 
c 




Thursday, April 9, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
GET A NEW COMPUTE.R UNTIL l GET RID OF THIS OLO ONE.  E 8 ~ i5 i  
VJ  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 City on the Clark Fork River
1 Wheedles 36 "Interview With 
8 Complete and the Vampire"orderly system actor
14 Kind of board 37 Laser element
15 Army threats? 16 Not shaded 
38 Ladies of the house
17 Heavy 39 Chemistry
18 Been angered Nobelist19 Loud Onsager20 Pottery 40 Lucrative 21 Homecoming? 
41 Actor Jannings
22 Labor Dept. section 44 Facing 
25Gium 48 37-Across. e.g. 26"--Boy" 
52 ---Romagna
("Tommy" (region of Italy)song) 53 Atlanta30 Noted corporate giantWashington 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
DAN SULLIVAN 
address 54 Turn in 

1  
UNION  RULES  WON'T  
LET  ME CARRY  IT TO  
STORAGE.  SO  t  BUILT  
THIS  CATP..PULT.  
55 Peg  
56 Existing  
57 Stops  
DOWN  
1 Retina part  
2 Amount to be  
raised?  
3 Sherlock  
Holmes's  
chronicler  
4 "Orfeo," e.g.  
5 Vanquished  
&Dodge  
7 Diet. listing  
8 Plan jointly, as a  
prank  
9 Great quantity  
10 Military award  
11 --operandi  
12 Sports event  
13 Produce strains  
14 Wrong  
beginning  
19 The Creator. in 49 -­alone (fly 
Hinduism solo)  
22 Ottoman 50 Swedish actor  
dynasty founder  45Augur Kjellin et al.  
creator R. L. 24 Must  33 Malt shop orders 34 Hamburger's connection  46 All-inclusive 47 Half pints. maybe  51 For example 53 11th-century hero  
25 Guesstimates  40 Hamburger  


A.LLOW IT IN i\1E iRf....SH' 
accompaniment Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
26 Brains 
41 Shorelines do 1t are available by touch-tone phone: 
27 Coronet 
42 Fends off, in a 1-900-420-5656 (751t per minute). 28 Sub standard? 
way, as a Annual subscriptions are available for the 29 Jawbone of mugger best of Sunday crosswords from the last 43 From Esfahan 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

SCOTT ADAMS LI K.E l ALWA.YS SA.Y, 
CELlllRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Slt•\·il' 1\:icks, Juhn \\',lynt·, Hank Williams lr .. Sail)' Ride · 
DEAR EUCENIA My horoscupe's financial outhHlk dllt..'sn't look th,1t great to me. \Viii lever he financi~1lh· stable? Also, would a man born Dl'c. 2, 1960, be comp.1tiblc \Vith me? If not, V·.rhat is the bt>st sign lu handll' m~· many personalitJCs? I am a Gl'mini. bom)une11,1%4,al9:30a.m. 
!labs 
DEAR BABS: Your comparison was not bad, but there were a couple of areas where I feel that you wouldn't be completely open and honest with one another. These appear to be where hOme and family are concerned. As far as making it work, absolutely-as long as you both pitch in and make the effort. I feel that this is a karmic connection for you, so regardless of wlrether or not you want to be togeth­e~ you both have something to learn by the experiences you share. Your ch.ut indicates that you are coming into a high cycle next year where investment opportunities are con~ cemed. In other words, you'll be com­ing into money that you don't work for-winnings, inheritance, rebates and so on. Your lucky numbers are 2, 6, ~. 28, 32 and 37. 
ARIES (March 21-April 201: Gmup associations will cost far 111llft..' than your budget can handle. Argu­nwnts with pet>rs art• likelv. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 211: Tra\·­el will promote new friendships and partllt'rships. Yl'll will be able to ex­pand ynur a"·,ut.'lll'S!-0 through phi­lns•._1phic courst.·~. 
GEMINI (M•y 22-)une 21): You can make financial gains through your uniqut: ideas. Talk to superior5 about impro\·inA work methods. Ad­\'am.::emt.•nl and re\vard will L-x~ yours. 
CANCER l]une 22-july 22): Get 
into Sl'il-impru\'t'lllL'lll prnf,r.un~. You 
will nwl'l Ill'\\' lrll•nds who could lx• 
COI11L' rl 111.1jor inflUt'I\Lt' in your llUI­
JooJ... tow.trd ~~our futurl' go.\b. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 2.3): Communi­l..':iltL' with vour partner htl.i.1\·. You can r_esoh•t• .ln v d ifferL'Ill'L'~ lhil t h,1\'L' LilUSt..'l..i knslon in the p<":-;1. 'lfavl'i ,,.ill be to )'Llllr ad\'iUlltlhl' it ·1 cotKL'rlb busint.'ss. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Social t•vents \\'ill result in rom.1ntic attrac­tions. Sl'lt-imprn\'t..'ment pmjects will be successfuL Ct1tch up on overdul' correspondPnt't..'. TravL'i for pleasurt• if possibk•. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Yuu can make 11L'tldwav if vnu takL• work home \"·:ith you. Yotir L.,est dforb will come throu~gh paying attention to detail. Don't make drastic changes in vour fi­nancial situation. ­
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Dras­tic alteriltions an.• likely if you get overly emotional discussing \'our feeling~ and complaints with Your mak. II ynu get angry Yllli'll accon1­plish \'ere little. 
. 
SAGilTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You will find that behind-the-scene' activitv will bt..• vour bt.>st bet. Talk to supcri"or~ about' your i·ntentions and your interest in doing mon.• traveling. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): ()ppnrtunities for romantic encoun­ll·r~ will dt..·,-d\lp through group en­dt..'.I\'or~ liT SllCializing with friends. You must not O\'erspend on enk•rtain­nwnt llr luxurv 1Lems. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 18): R"­rnantk opportunities \dilt.'\'o)\'t' thn1ugh work rdated acti\'ities. St.•cret affairs arL' e\·ident, hO\\'l'\'l'r, nDt to your benefit. Don't gt•t inn,Jved in gpssip. 
PISCES (feb. 19-M arch 201: Tr,l\'el and ach'enturt..• can be ~'our~. f-oreign nrltun.•s and customs will enlighten vou. You will need mental as well as ~"'h~·sicill slimulatiun within relati(m­
ships. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
• 
• 


SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, April 9.1998 

"Breaking" news at" Bookstore regarding Full House 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sporrs Ediror 
N urn lw r 1 h r I'" seed Full I louse, whirh has now assumed IIH~ llllllll' orr Shorl' Drilling, rf'!'l'iVI'd SOmP "brt•aking" IIPWS wh!'n llwy )ward that tlwy will IJ!' without Irish di'I'Pnsive end Brad Williams for tiH• rPmain­dPr of tlw tournanwnt; \Villiams sufi'Prt>d a broken anklt~ yPstPr­day at football practice. · 
t'>Pspitl' tlw loss of Williams, OfT Short! drilling rolled to vic­
• lory 21-5, with lrsh kicker Jim Sat.lSOn filling the void left by Williams. ThP lnam is now in sParch of a fil'lh. AsidP from till' day's big story, it was mainly a battle lwtWPI'n the SI'X!lS on Stnpan. 
C:ajns (;owse, composed of sophnwn~s from Welsh's intPr­
hall squad, faced Team 256 made up of Alumni sopho­mores. 
"They weren't ready for a game." sophomores Erica Sciola and Stephanie Eden said about thPir prPiinwnary round opponents. Team 256. "Not all girls comr out in costumes. Tlwy weren't ready for a battle against wonwn." 
Tlw game started off casually, but after the first couple of sequPnces Team 256 realized that this team meant business. 
As the game progmsscd. the crowd started to pull for Cajes Gowse and Team 256's frustra­tion became more evident. 
Eden and Seiola commanded tlwir tnam from the guard posi­tion. calling for pies and fakPs at random. Cajes Gowse real­ized that the height advantage of Team 256 was too much, so thny took their game to the out­side. 
Ednn and Sciota were joined by fellow sophomores April Olsen, .Jill Wcrmiek and Caroline Grady. Cajes Gowse's lenarily and sheer will kept tlwir game close. They relied heavily on the outside shot and it knpl the game closn. 
When the game started out, the crowd appeared sparse but by the end of the game there wasn't an empty spot on tlw perimeter of the court. 
I.aek of height down low ended up hurting the Welsh team in the end and Team 256 advanced, 21-16. 
Another battle at Stnpan took place between an all male and 
see BOOKSTORE I page 21 

The Observer/John Dally 
Bookstore Basketball action continued at Stepan yesterday . 
• BASEhAi 
Eight-run inning propels Irish-to victory Wagner on 
.. 
By BRA!! PRENDERGAST Senior Sratl'Wrirer 
ThrPI' Prrors. threl' wild pitrlws. lhrt•l' walks. onn sacri­l'il'l' l'ly, <llll' stolPn basi', a tln\'artl'd squPPZe play. four basP hits and <me doublP. 
And all of that in orw inning. 
Thanks to sonw gif'ls from the Chicago Stall' dl'f'pnse and sonw tir11!·ly hitting by Irish haltPrs. Notre l>ame (21-1 0) s<·orPd <~ight runs in a wild st•v­Pnth inning last night to dPfeat tlw Cougars 11-5. 
But if thP s<'V<'nth inning was a storm. tlwn tlw calm bdort'­hand lastPd for a full six innings. In those innings. thn Irish strandl'd nirw runrwrs on hasP. and in thrl'l' of the innings tlw Irish had runrwrs in St'oring position with less than two outs and W<~n~ unable to gPl tlw rumwrs honw. 
In tlw mPantinw. tlw Cougars WPl'l' abll' to SCOt'e fiVIl runs, making thP most of' sevnral inliPld hits. 
")Irish starting pitdwr .John Corbin! got hurt by a eoupl!\ of inl'ield tappl'rs," Notre Dame lwad coarh Paul Mainieri said. "But to Chicago Slate's <Tndit, they were gPtting the big hits wlwn those runnl'rs were in scoring position." 
The Cougars would have got­tl\n mon~ if not for Corbin's ability to get batters to hit the ball on the ground. An Irish doublP play in the second inning saved one run, and another ground ball out ended thn third inning with two run­ners aboard. 
Mainieri also cited thn pitch­ing of' Mike Naumann -who thn~w live innings in relief' and won his first game at llw colle­giate level -as a reason the Irish were abl<) to stay in the game until they could score enough runs. 
"Mike Naumann is fearless," 

Mike Carlin has helped the Irish to a 21-10 record, which includes a win over Chicago State yesterday. 
Neither Corbin nor Naumann walked anyone, in sharp con­trast to the Cougars' pitching staff. which walked seven Irish players, five of whom seornd. 
The Irish got a horne run from J.J. Brock in the first inning, but found themselves down 5-3 entering the seventh. 
see BASEBALL I page 24 
target for new record 
By DAN CICHALSKI Senior Sr.tiYWritl'r 

\\'ith his rwxt honw run . .11'1'1' Wagnl'r will lwconw Notre Damp's Pquivall'nl of llank Aaron. 
or course, lw'll lw 717 ding<' rs lw hind II amm "rin' II an k, but f'o r tlu~ Irish . :{ S homp runs will sPL tlw individ­ual earner mark. 
"I don't cla_ssif'y mysPif' as a pow!' r hitler." Wagrwr said Tuesday after hitting his lOth homn run of' thn ynar in thn 4-:{ loss to Ball Stale. "I take pridP in having a good eyP at tlw plate and swinging at good pildws." 
Wagrwr's numb<\rs ll'slif'y to all thosl' aspects of' his hitting gamn. llis frnshman year, llw (,-foot-:{ junior catclwr from Louisville, KY hit I0 honw runs and l'ollownd that with 17 the next y<\ar. The Irish record for one season is Frank .Jacobs' 20 in1991. 
While hitting the long ball, Wagner has maintained a respectable balling average, hilling .287 in 1996 and .374 last season. With a 2-for-5 day Wednesday in the 11-5 win against Chieago State, Wagner raised his '98 average to .342. 
"lie does a good job of' w~tling a good pitch to hit," Irish hitting instructor Corey Men said. "lie gets good cuts and is an aggres­sive hittnr. Being a good hitter. the pitdwr makes you get your­sell' out. lin triPs to get you to hit the pitcher's pitdws. Being disciplined, [Wagner! works the count like most good hitlnrs." 
see WAGNER I page 21 
Mainieri said of the walk-on freshman. "lie got a lot of ground ball outs, and that's key. When you're not a strike­out pitcher, you need to throw strikPs that are going to be hit, but not hit too hard. Mike did that, and we were able to play good defense behind him." 
Naumann varied the use of 
his fastball, change-up and slider to keep the Cougars from hitting him hard, and he went to the fastball in crucial situa­tions. 
"I was just trying to hit my spots, but I relied on my fast­ball the most because it tails away from righthanded hit­ters," Naumann said.j 
xw 
Seron Hall (2) Wake Forest 
Today, 4 p.m. 
Today, 4 p.m. 
,e aJ •Track prepares for Miami Invitational 
Georgetown ~ see page 19
Rutgers 
......
~ 
Saturday, I p.m.
'? 
~~ Today 12:0'5 p.m. 
, 
Softball team loses twice to Purdue
~ • 
y 
Syracuse see page 22 
at Ball State 
M Friday. TBA Saturday, noon 
~ 







