
• Columnist Brittany Morehouse analyzes 
• Want to get healthy? Check out these tips on 
Thursday

the true spririt of Notre Dame. 
nutrition, running, and cross-training. 
NOVEMBER 

Viewpoint • 11 
Scene ·12-13 
5, 1998 


THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
• STUDENT SENATE 

Process flaw stalls 'Shirt' decision 
By TIM LOGAN Assistant Nrws Edi<Or 
For the !irsl time in its two-year history, the Student Senate last night rejected a Student Union appointment. 
c;arretl Skiba, a sophomore on The Shirt committne, had been nominated to replace .John Maus as eoordinalor of The Shirt project. Amid eoneorns that the nomination process was not open enough, Skiba failed to garner tho two-thirds votn needed for approval. 
Tho Sonate must vote to approve many appoinlod Student Union oflieials and normally do~ so with unanimous consent. Last night, however, there worn concerns that other can­didates were not fully eonsidered. 
All this came about after junior Michael Senlny addmssed tho senate to complain that his interest in applying for the coordinator position was ignored and that he was given eonnicting information by different people involvnd in the process. 
"l came to student government looking to get involved," Seeley said. ''In this case f was 
see SENATE I page 4 


The Observer/Mike Harris Visitors to last night's Student Senate meeting observed the senate's proce­dures and took notes. 
Group talks on flying objects in stadium 
By TIM LOGAN 
Assistant Nc'W.~ Ediror 
Senators considered responses to the behavior of students at half-time of Saturday's football game at their meet­ing last night. 
Actions which members suggested ranged from notifying students of potential consequences to drafting a letter asking their classmates to stop throwing inappropriate and dangerous objects. While senators disagreed on what specifically to do, it was generally agreed that some action had to be taken. 
"I think a lot of students are upset and we have to do something about it," said Dillon senator Jason Linst.er. 
see PROJECTILE I page 4 


Saint Mary's senior crowned Miss Indiana 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE Yarlagadda looks back on News Writer how it all started and recalled her early days as a child want­
Once a young dmamer prac­ing to be in a pageant. tieing how to walk in her "I didn't think my parents rnothnr's high heels, Pratima would let me ever try, but once Yarlagadda is now a woman they understood it was my with a Miss 
r-----=:----, dream they were wonderful," Indiana USA said Yarlagadda. title. At every competition, her 
Yarlagadda mother, younger sister and nnvnr thought boyfriend are with her. she would see "My dad gets too nervous for thn day when me to come with us. Still he's hnr family, with me in spirit," she said. friends and Yarlagadda said she could fans flashed Yarlagadda not believe she won when her smilns as well name was announced. as camnras in honor of her "It was an unexplainable ace om plish ments. moment. but il was one that 
But aflnr long hours of train­my family relishnd with me," ing and dndieation, shn said. Yarlagadda knew she was Despite all this fame, understood whnn she was Yarlagadda still has her head crowned Miss Indiana at last on straight and is concentrat­wm~kend's pageant. ing on the next goal. In 
Win or losn, she wants the February, she leaves for the pnople to see more than just a Miss USA pageant in Branson, tiara, sash and gown. Mo. 
"All I want from the audi­"There's lots to do when ence is for them to see the per­you're training for a competi­son I am. What I say and pre­tion," said Yarlagadda. snnt is not a show," said "Although shopping is fun, I Yarlagadda. spend hours on wardrobes and 
Yarlagadda is a 22-year-old fittings, portraits and talking snnior communications major to the public." at Saint Mary's College. She She said there is not really plans to attnnd Jaw school and any pressure from other peo­
wants to eventually have a ple -it usually stems more supportive, loving family just from her personal perfection­like the one her parents pro­ism than anything else. vided for her in Shipshewana, Although she said she did not Ind. know if she would win the title, 
So, why communication? Yarlagadda said it felt good. "No matter what you do, you "Nothing is ever a done deal, 
may look the part, but what but with God, I hope and pray good is it if you can't talk?" she noted. 
see PAGEANT I page 4 


Chicago reflects on obstacles 
By SARAH MAGNESS spective of making the Creator a woman. News Writer This project was not only the work of Chicago, but of many women. Females in the 
Feminist artist Judy Chicago provided an United States, New Zealand and Canada overview of her 35-year career and offered worked together with needlework to make some explanations of her work during her lec­Chicago's design three-dimensional. ture Wednesday night at Saint Mary's Carroll "The power of art transcends many barriers, Auditorium. including geography," said Chicago. 
Both artist and author, Chicago talked about Chicago also emphasized her view of femi­some of the obstacles that impeded her nism. progress. "Feminism is a philosophy," according to 
"I felt stifled by the art system," said Chicago, "that is also the understanding of the Chicago, who also noted that she lived in a structure of power on the planet." pre-feminist movement society that could not Chicago's "Power Play" series examines and imagine an artist and a woman as one person. critiques how men deal with nature and their 
Chicago's ideas of what art should be were abundance of power in the world. Through always broader than "Power Play," Chicago 
the ideas of the elitist said she is declaring art world, she said. 
an end to men's quest Chicago said she for power and rule. 
'FEMINISM IS A PHILOs­
remained true to her The "Holocaust
OPHY THAT IS ALSO
vision as she intro­Project" continues duced a theme of THE UNDERSTANDING OF her themes of pownr usage, she said. Its
female identity in her THE STRUCTURE OF POWER art. Such identity is images reveal what evident in her works, ON THE PLANET.' consequences result "Pasadena Lifesavers" when power is mis­and "Fresno Fans." used. Already breaking JUDY CliiCAGO With the assistance conventional themes of FEMINIST, ARTIST of many other arti­art, Chicago experi­sans, she said, the enced with art medias, eight-year work chal­such as using fireworks, and portrayed "in­lenges viewers to rethink some themes in his-your-face images" of male violence against tory of western civilization. women and menstruation. "Can the Holocaust teach us about our­Chicago challenged the absence of women selves?" Chicago asked. with an active role through one of her main She said she believes that learning about the works, "The Dinner Party." Part of the motiva­Holocaust is futile if people do not process and tion of the 39 place-setting piece reverts to apply its lessons. Chicago's college years at UCLA when a pro­"Resolutions -a Stitch in Time" is fessor speaking of women's contributions to Chicago's latest work. She described it as play­history said, "They made none." ful, combining painting and needlework. It will The six-year project reveals the history of be released in the early part of 2000 and will western civilization in a woman's perspective. be housed at New York's American Craft Chicago fused imagery and creative painting Museum. skills on china to honor women's lives and Chicago ended her lecture with slide images their contributions to history. of the world, as she sees it now and a vision of "Birth Project," a five year task, is another how it could be in the future. example Chicago used to explain her quest to "1 have tried to contribute to make a better make women's absence turn into a presence. world. Ultimately, one must decide to choose She retells the story of creation with the per-life," Chicago said. 

--~­


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Just chuck it 
What do airborne squids, projectile pigs, drunken 18th birthdays, warm beer and fresh­men (or freshwomen) table dancers have.to do with each other? 
In 552 words we'll have it all sorted out. 
When the first flying fish flew a few weeks • back, I thought it was hilarious. In 30'years we won't be telling our kids how we threw marsh­mallows. We'll be telling them we threw octopi and fetal pigs. Fellow students and clothing. Squids and redfish. Rectors and rec­tresses. Not marshmallows. 
But when someone gets hurt, it is the job of the administration to step in and prevent fur­ther injury. If they don't, they're neglecting their duties. 
When we projected our projectiles out of the senior section, we went a little too far (that's what students often do) and the administration brought the proverbial smack down (as they often do). 
This is the natural order of things. It's the way things are supposed to happen (all except the 10 year-old getting hurt). They are the check (and rightfully so) to our youthful exu­berance. 
But how does this relate to Bridget's closing? Simply. We went too far. Bridget's was heaven for many underage 
socialites. When you tell kids from other schools that such a place existed, they don't even believe you. 
But with the freedom to drink underage comes responsibilities. Many kids drove drunk and drank to alcohol-poisoning levels. This is what sealed Bridget's fate. (And if you think that Notre Dame had nothing to do with the raid, I have a few Rick Mirer rookie collector's cards for you.) 
The fate was sealed in the fall when a stu­dent was shot walking home from Bridget's. Underage and oversauced, he could have been anyone who frequented the Filling Station. 
The administration did what they had to do to make sure they never would end up on page two of some other school's newspaper under the heading, "Student Shot, Killed, at Notre Dame." The closing wasn't the fault of this kid by any stretch of the imagination. He did what many of the rest of us (including myselO were doing; but it was still a mishandling of respon­sibility -a manifestation of the atmosphere that correctly caused Bridget's demise. 
But the administration's threats shouldn't stop us from throwing animals in two week­ends, however. We should chuck 'em. All kinds of 'em. Just remember: Animals have rights too. Like the right to be marinated. So squeeze some lemon on the animals before throwing them. That sensitivity toward the animals should keep the animals rights activists at bay -or at least confused. 
Beachballs. Inflatable people. Sheep. Yeah, definitely sheep. Sheep, sheep, sheep. And who says penguins are flightless? Do one. a favor and put him in flight in a few days. If you've got it, chuck it, two Saturdays from now. 
Oh yeah, keep the pennies out of the marsh­mallows. Soaring seafood is funny. Cyclopses aren't, especially if you cause their cyclopsity. 
Personally, I'm sick of being an average stu­dent body. As senator for Zahm Hall, I feel a need to be a leader out of the mediocrity of throwing dead animals. Any student body can throw everything but the kitchen sink. So I'm bringing a kitchen sink. I'm bringing it in parts with a few of my friends, and we'll assemble it inside. So keep your head up in section 28; but let's keep it in section 28. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TooAY's STAFF 
News Scene Anne Marie Mattingly Sarah Dylag Noreen Gillespie Graphics Maggy Tinnuci 
Cristin Manaray 
Sports 
Production 
Mike Connolly 
Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Eddie Llull 
Meg Kroener 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ[S are reserved. 
Thursday, November 5, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

NOW holds midnight vigil for slain doctor 
DAVIS, Calif. 
with his wife from synagogue. The 
A frustrated group of community sniper, who was armed with a high­members gathered in Central Park powered rifle, shot through on Monday night for a vigil that Slepian's kitchen window and fatally honored the work of Dr. Barnett wounded the doctor. Slepian 's four Slepian, an obstetrician-gynecolo­sons, ages 7 to 15, were home at the gist who was killed by a sniper last time of the shooting. week because he chose to provide This is the fifth sniper attack on women with safe and legal abor­an abortion provider in New York tions. and Canada in the last four years 
The vigil, which was organized by NOW affiliate Rhonda Gruska said. and the first in which the intended the campus chapter of the National "However, the vigil offers the public victim died. A suspect has not yet 
Organization for Women, allowed a chance to speak out and show been named. mourners to express their feelings their support for Dr. Slepian and Several of the speakers at the vigil of anger in a nonviolent way. women." asked the audience to vote for abor­Holding candles, the group huddled Gruska emphasized that while tion rights candidates in the Nov. 3 together to support one another and everyone is entitled to an opinion, election. According to participants, listen as participants spoke of their no one has the right to murder. She this offers a way to pass legislation concerns. expressed concern for the growing that will ban things such as the 
"The normal reaction after such danger of publicly taking an abor-Internet hit list, which names doc­an incident is for people to become tion-ri~hts stance. tors who perform abortions. 
frightened and not want to talk • Slep!an, a 5~-year-ol.d OB-GYN, Slepian's name had previously about what has happened," co-coor-was killed at his home m .Amherst, been among these, but was crossed dinator of the vigil and campus N.Y., shortly after returmng home off hours after the shooting. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY  • MISSISSIPPI STATE UNIVERSITY  
Researchers release government poll  Campus tightens drinking policy  
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.  MISSISSIPPI STATE, Miss.  
Coinciding with Tuesday's elections, a group of  Mississippi State University offers a creative way to deal  
researchers from Harvard and the University of Chicago  with underage drinking and drinking on campus. Firlt time  
recently released a report that seeks to answer what makes  drinking offenders caught with alcohol on campus could end  
a government good. The report was prepared for the  up a $15 program in which they must spend an hour with  
National Bureau of Economic Research by Harvard econom­ counselor Deborah Jackson and pass a test. If students have  
ics professors Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-De­ a behavioral refraction and alcohol possession, or are two  
Silanesand Andrei Shleifer and a professor at the University  time drinking offenders, they are put into a $25 program  
of Chicago, Robert Vishny. It is based on data compiled from  called Alcohol and Other Drug Education Program. It meets  
more than 150 countries. Rafael La Porta is an assistant  every Friday for a month from 2 to 4 p.m. in the Joe Frank  
professor of Economics, and Andrei Shleifer is a professor of  Sanderson Center. Third time offenders are suspended for a  
economics in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. "Our ultimate  semester. "The alcohol and other drug education program  
goal is to understand how some countries came to have  tries to stress education of alcohol," Mike White, dean of stu­ 
good governments," said Lopez-De-Silanes, assistant profes­ dents, said. "Our goal is to educate rather than punish."  
sor of Public Policy at the Kennedy School of Government.  Parents of the students enrolled in the class are not contact­ 
The study reports that good governments are usually found  ed. "We try to treat the students as adults," said Dave Remy,  
in countries that are wealthier and Protestant.  assistant dean of students.  
• OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY  • BOSTON UNIVERSITY  
College files suit over t-shirt design  Caffeine pill overdose kills student  
COLUMBUS, Ohio  BOSTON, Mass.  
Ohio State isn't pleased with a local printing compa­ Caffeine pills proved fatal last week for Jason Allen, a  
ny's depiction of the phrase "Michigan sucks." The  community college student in North Carolina who swal­ 
image of a University of Michigan cheerleader perform­ lowed almost 90 pills, the equivalent of about 250 cups  
ing oral sex on Brutus Buckeye wasn't the reason, how­ of coffee. While an overdose this severe is rare, many  
ever, that Ohio State officials filed charges against a  college students misuse caffeine pills because they con­ 
local T-shirt designer. It was the production and sale of  sider them a harmless way to fight sleep. However,  
non-licensed depictions of OSU trademarks. Franklin  excessive amounts of caffeine can lead to serious health  
County Sheriff deputies arrested Anthony Lukacs of  problems, according to Carol Walsh, a doctor and asso­ 
Graphic Design Unlimited Tuesday on charges of trade­ ciate professor of pharmacology at Boston University.  
mark counterfeiting, a fourth degree felony under state  "Caffeine pills are commonly available, so some people  
law. About 600 T-shirts were seized, along with the  may not consider them to be very dangerous... Like any  
tools used to print them. According to OSU officials, the  medication, though, an overdose is potentially fatal,"  
shirts, which read "Michigan sucks," include several  Walsh said. Most warning labels on caffeine pills say the  
trademark violations. OSU and Michigan football hel­ drug stimulates the central nervous system and can  
mets, registered trademarks of each university. are  cause restlessness, nervousness, gastrointestinal distur­ 

depicted on the shirts' fronts. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

L 
Thursday ~ 38 Friday ~ 42 Saturdqy ~ ~2~, Sunda~ ~··· 5'1: Monday ) /~.. ~ ) 50 
40 
~ .-~,r.' , '\.._._v/""....._-=...t·~ 
:/"'/ 
Q_Q,~P,Q.Q (f  ~ u  
Showers  T·storms  Ra;n  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  

Vta Assoctated Press GraphicsNet 
bances and other problems. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

National weather The AccuWeather<"' forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 5. 
CO 1998 AccuWe•ther, Inc. 

@'"""(b  D  ~  ~  E::>:·l  b!:·:~l  L~:::::J  0  ~k  ~·  
High  Low  Shower•  Rain  T·•torrn• Flurrle~  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  
Vis Associated PreiSs  

NATIONAL SUMMARY: Showers, a few thunderstorms and a gusty wind will continue for central and southern Florida today as Mitch wanders out to sea. Cold air, meanwhile, will continue to chill much of the eastern two-thirds of th nation. In fact, highs will only be in the 30 and 40s from the Dakotas to New England. Showers are 1n store lor the Northwest while the Southwest remains sunny and warm. 
Atlanta  45  56  Cleveland  27  44  Minneapolis  21  36  
Baltimore  28  52  Dallas  43  57  New York  34  49  
Boston  32  39  Denver  24  49  Salem  30  50  
Chicago  28  45  Miami  75  79  Santa Fe  30  53  

Thursday, November 5, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
DeBecker: Women should trust intuition more 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY have to take precautions to protect their important to preventing violence, he However, deBccker said, it is important Assistant News Editor safety," he said. "Women live in a much said. that a person makes it clear he or she is different environment than men as "We have to teach young people that not afraid when in a situation with a pos­
Intuition is a powerful gift, and when prey." 'no' is a eomplete sentence," deBecker sibility of violence. 
people doubt it, they are most likely to be DeBecker offered an example of this said. "Young women especially need to "A young woman who tightens up victims of viohmce, said Gavin de Becker, intuition and a sit-know that their is when a man enters the elevator is show­author of the best-selling novel, "The Gift uation when the no reason to be ing she is vulnerable,'' he said. "If she of Fear." instinct is ignored. nice when you looks him in the eye and says 'good 
llumuns have intuition in order to pro­"We [humans] reject." evening,' she is showing she wants to see teet themselves, deBecker explained. deny in a way no 'SOCIETY SAYS WOMEN MUST Many times, men how he responds and that she is not "!Intuition! is knowing why without other animal RELY ON MEN TO DEFEND refuse to hear afraid." knowing why," he said. "It is the best when women say DeBecker also warned women that
would dream of," THEM. THIS MAY HAVE MADE SENSE 
way for preventing violence. The oppo­de Becker. the word "no," he society sends a message that women site is denial, when people choose not to "If a woman is A MILLION YEARS AGO, BUT IT said. need men to protect and defend them sec the threat of violence." "When a man and told them to disregard this. 
getting into an ele-DOESN'T MAKE MUCH SENSE ANY­
Denial is often pnwalent when people valor and sees a says 'no,' it is the "The result of this patriarchal message sensn a threat of violence; they often say man in the eleva-MORE.' end of a conversa­is that women must avoid violence they had a fneling something was not tor and feels fear tion, but when a because they wouldn't know what to do if right when thfly walked into an under­when she sees that women says it, it is they found it," he said. "Women get more ground parking complex or when they man, she will still GAVIN DEBECKER the beginning of a protection from alliances with other start«~d dating a eertain man, deBeeker get in the elevator AUTHOR, ."THE Gwr OF FEAR n e got i at ion , " women, yet society says women must said. anyway." deBecker said. rely on men to defend them. This may 
"Let mfl tell you that denial is not just a The example of In order to pre­have made sense a million years ago, but river in Afriea," deBecker said. this woman is based on the tremendous dict violence by trusting one's intuition, a it doesn't make much sense anymore." 
Women in particular rely morfl on intu­reluctance in our society to be rude, he person has to accept there is no mystery DeBecker then addressed the young ition than men and that is why it is said. in human behavior, he said. women in the audience. important they not deny it. he said. "Be rude, it's okay," deBecker said. "When we accept that killers look, act "I say that you are the generation to 
"They rely on intuition more frequently "Predators will exploit politeness." and dress like we do, we lose the denial," stop buying in to the myth of 
in their day to day lives beeause they Learning how to say the word "no" is deBecker said. 
Kroc broadcasts Nobel speeches 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY "]Nobel laureates] travel and lecture, but Assistant News Editor usually individually. The idea was to bring them all together to talk about their ideas for 
Through a live satellite broadcast, Notre promoting [peace]." said Culbertson. Dame students will be able to view a confer­Participants include, among others, ence of nine Nobel Peace Prize laureatos which Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who won the prize will be held at the University of Virginia this in 1984 for his work for justice in South Africa; weekend, according to Ilal Culbertson, the Dalai Lama of Tibet, who received the 1987 Direetor of Communications at the Kroc award for his continued advocacy of non-vio­Institute. lent resistance to the Chinese occupation; and 
"]Tho University of Virginia] is broadcasting Jody Williams, the 1997 recipient who earned all over North America live via satellite. We're the prize for her work in the International re-broadcasting [it]," Culbertson said. "It's out Campaign to Ban Landmines. there to be received for free." Each laureate will deliver a 20 minute pre­
lie said the signal will be received in sentation to be followed by a panel discussion i>eBartolo llall and sent to the Hesburgh and question and answer period, according to Center for International Studies for viewing. the Web site. 
The confllrnnee, which will foeus on "human rights conllkt reeoneiliation," will feature sev­Information on the laureates' presentations eral winners of the prize from as far back as and conference schedules is available through I<J7(,, aecording to a Univorsity of Virginia Web the Kroc Institute or at 
site. http://www. virginia. edulnobel 

Ill Crowd pleasing walk-in closets. Kick-off the semester with maintenance-free living.
Ill 
Tackle your storage problems in spacious one ortwo bedroom apt. or a two or three bedroom town home. 
It's a surefire field goal with your gas utilities paid. 
Don't PASS up this opportunity! 
Call about our exclusive student specials! 
256-0237 

TDD: 1-800-326-9193 #724 
@ 
EQUAL HOUSIIIG 
OPPORTUNITY 
Live at Williamsburg 
A guaranteed Touchdown experience! 


defenselessness." 
Nobel Prize Laureate Presentations 
Archbishop Desmond Tutu, 1984 
.."R_'~~~~i/'i'~·ti~tl i~ ·};~·st~ 
he.id South Africa: riences of the Truth Commission." Tp da,Y; 2 : 4 5 p. m • 
.•.,,..()..;.,. ""y·.········ .,...,...~~-"" ' ~ ' 
·. o~y Williams/, 1997 
'The International Campaign to Ban Landmines." 
Friday, 2:10 p.m . 
. pre~e~~~-ti~-~~~'~ifr'i)'~' b~oadc~st'Tn ro~;,:;"t: 
103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Information about additional presentations can be obtained at http:// 
www.vir inia.edu/nobel/ 
This su..:n101er, ge-ta:n.ew perspec-ti:ve on -thi.n..gs. 

Summer Service Projects 1999 
**First informational meeting: Nov.9 7-7:30 p.m., esc 
[4.-Df
c r .. T c" , o ..

* 8 weeks of service learning SOCIAL 
CONCERNS

* $1 700 tuition scholarship *Valuable alumni contacts 
* 3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists 
*Over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 5, 1998 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
ignored and misled." 
Seeley said he spoke to Student Union treasurer T.J. Wolfe and his student senator, Matt Mamak, about getting involved in The Shirt project and about applying for the coordinator position, which will become available soon. Two weeks later, he heard that a new coordinator had already been nominated, and decided to come to the senate to com­plain about the process. 
Maus said that Seeley did not ask him about the process. 
Wolfe and a number of sena­tors defended the selection, but admitted that the process could have been improved. 
"Things got misunderstood," Wolfe said. "The process needs to be fixed and I'm sorry ... but at the same time, I'm happy with what happened. I think Garrett will do a good job." 
Skiba has worked on The Shirt committee for three semesters, and was recom­mended by Maus and approved by the Financial Management Board (FMB). Seeley has no experience with The Shirt, nor was his interest in the position ever brought before the FMB. 
"I never heard [his] name," said Breen-Phillips senator Reah Gertken, one of two sena­tors on the FMB. 
She also noted that Seeley had no prior involvement and suggested that his only interest was in being coordinator of the project. Gertken supported the FMB's decision to approve Skiba. 
"I do stand by Garrett's nom­ination," she said. "He's the most qualified." 
There was no opposition expressed concerning Skiba's qualifications, and some sena­tors hoped he would not be rejected because of the prob­lems in the nomination system. 
"We really have to look at the two separate issues here and make sure that we don't shoot down his nomination because were unsure about the process," said Pangborn sena­tor Susan Roberts. 
Others disagreed with this, saying that because the appli­cation process was not open enough that anyone could file an application, the process should start again at the begin­ning. 
"[Seeley] was not given the opportunity," Mamak said. "It doesn't matter that he may not be qualified ... he should have had the opportunity to apply for the position." 
On an unusual roll call vote, 14 senators voted in favor of Skiba's nomination, nine voted against it. This fell short of the two-thirds needed for approval. 
Maus expressed frustration with the senate's decision. 
"Basically, I'm just fed up with this," he said, noting that this is the only time that The Shirt has received attention, postive or negative, in the last two years, despite grossing $200,000 for the Student Union. 
He also cited Skiba's prior experience with the project as a strength. 
"It took me an entire year to get my feet wet, to learn the process," he said. "Garrett is familiar with the process." 
The FMB will meet to discuss options for selecting a new Shirt coordinator, said Wolfe, but the process will be a diffi­cult one because they have already approved a candidate, and now must compare others to their choice. 
"The application process for this year is tainted," Wolfe said after the meeting. "We all want to be impartial, but after tonight it's hard to go back." 

Projectile 
continued from page 1 
Some recommended listing the potential reprisals on stu­dents if the behavior contin­ues. Potential punishments included a relocation of the student section, and on a more personal level, revocation of future ticket privileges or 
"We should warn people of the conse­quences," said Fisher senator Phil Dittmar. "We should make sure that everyone knows, because if they know, they're less likely to do it." 
Student body vice president Andrea Selak noted that the ticket distribution system is 
currently under review, and that one potential reprisal would be for no student input to be solicited in the changes. 
Other senators hoped for more personal appeals. 
"The most appropriate way to deal with this is to ask peo­ple to refrain from doing things that hurt people," said 
'IT'S NOT LIKE WE'RE
sending students to the office of Residence Life 
CATAPULTING SHEEP. for disciplinary hear­IT's JUST PEOPLE HAVING
ings, although none of these options were FUN. IT SHOULDN'T BE LEAV-confirmed as being lNG THE STUDENT SECTION 
considered by the administration. -THAT'S THE PROBLEM.' 
young girl sitting outside the student section who received lacerations on her face when she was hit by a frog. 
Some senators didn't see an urgent need for senate action. 
"It's not like we're catapult­ing sheep," said Zahm senator Spencer Stefko. "It's just peo­ple having fun. It shouldn't be 
SPENCER STEFKO 
SENATOR, ZAHM HALL 
leaving the student section -that's the problem." 
Others felt that a senate action might produce the wrong response, leading to further incidents. 
"This could be fan­ning the flames," said Morrissey sena­tor Ryan Costantini. "We don't want peo­ple coming in angry and it being even worse." 
The issue was sent to the Residence Life 
Pasquerilla East senator Stephany Foster. 
A number of injuries were reported during half-time of Saturday's game, including one Committee for consideration, in the hopes that the senate can develop a response before the final home game on Nov. 
21. 



Pageant 
continued from page 1 
that my hard work will pay off." In the off-season, Yarlagadda said she will work even harder as she fulfills her duties. 
"I have been given numerous opportunities to meet people, give speeches, make appearances for organizations and to help out in hospitals," she said. 
That kind of community service is something Yarlagadda knows she will continue now and after her reign. She hopes that people will remember something more precious than the crown that was placed upon her head on Sunday. 
Yarlagadda, who has been influenced by the work of Eleanor Roosevelt, chose as her person­al mantra something which helped put her on the path to Miss Indiana USA. 
"The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams," she said, quoting Roosevelt. "Those who work to achieve their dreams do indeed hold a bright future." 




software 
eng1neers with people skills 
Professional Development ar1y questions? 
rec ru iti n g@dcsys. corn 

Thursday, November 5, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Residents uphold right to mow topless 
NEWPOH.T, Maine 

One woman wants to mow her lawn top­loss. llnr noighhor donsn't like it. Solution: l.et tho votnrs deeidn. With a vote Tuesday of 77!i-2H3. Newport rnsidnnts nixed plans for an ordinance to punish women for displaying llwir brnasts in publie. Desiree Davis, who is in hnr 30s, wantnd to cut the grass without a shirt. Ilnr neighbor, Mary Thompson, ealled authoritins and complained. Topless lawn mowing, slw said, was indneent. Besides, she warned. passing motorists might get dis­tracted and eause an accident. The law in Maine prohibits the display of genitalia or llw committing of sexual acts in public. But Town Manager Kennnth Knight noted that brnasts aro not genitalia, and lawn mowing not a sexual act. No crime here. he reasoned. So Thompson launched a petition drive to have the town's Board of Selectmen craft a law to stop topless lawn-mowing womnn. Slw rounded up 125 signatures to get the matter on Tuesday's ballot. 
Marijuana declared legal for 
medicinal purposes 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
TEGUCIGALPA 
Unable to provide Hondurans sueh basics as gasoline, food and water, a government over­whelmed by Hurricane Mitch's destruction made an urgent appeal for international aid yester­day. 
Across Central America, Hurricane Mitch has killed an estimated 9,000 people and destroyed roads lead­ing to areas where author­ities say thousands were still missing. 
A revived Mitch was expected to hit South Florida on Thursday as a fast-moving tropical storm, bringing four to eight inches of rain before heading toward the Bahamas. Mitch had sus­tained winds of 45 mph yesterday when it was 250 miles west of Cuba, pro­ducing rain and winds to the island 
In Honduras, the largest cities have become virtual islands accessible only by air. The U.S. Air Force was helping Honduras deliver aid to remote towns, Communications Minister Tomas Lozano said. 
Honduran officials esti­mated their country's death toll at 7,000 on yes­terday, though no one knows how many really died. Some 11,000 people officially were listed as missing. 
As many as 1 million are homeless, said Col. Rene Osorio of the national emergency committee. 
"We really don't know 
what the numbers are. 
There are places we 
haven't reached yet," 
Osorio said. 

Mitch hit the Honduran 
coast last week and 
parked itself there, dump­
ing several feet of rain 
onto the poor nation 
before moving across the 
Yucatan Peninsula and 
into the Gulf of Mexico. 

It left behind a stunning 
•wake of death and devas­tation across Central America. 
"How do we continue, without food, without sleep?" said Yolanda Marvella Arraya, 35, who has spent nights outside on a soggy mattress along the debris-strewn banks of the Choluteca River since flooding destroyed her family's home. "I don't know what to think. My mind needs help." . In neighboring Nicaragua, as many as 2,400 were believed dead. Rains there last ..week caused a crater lake atop the Casitas volcano to break open Friday and spill tons of mud onto vil­lages along the slopes. 
Nicaraguan military spokesman Capt. Milton Sandoval warned that mines planted by guerril­las in the 1980s could sur­face in f1ooded areas. An estimated 100,000 mines were left behind. 
El Salvador declared three days of national mourning for the 239 dead there. In Guatemala, 194 were reported dead and at least 77,900 had evacuat­ed their homes. At least six people were killed in southern Mexico. 

Bin Laden indicted in bombings 
AssOCIATEDPRESS 
NEWYORK 
Exiled Saudi millionaire Osama bin 
Laden.was charged ye$terday with 
masterminding the e,mbassy bombing~ 
in East Africa and authorities••offered 
a record $5 million reward for his ·capture. 
A federal indictment charged. bin 
Laden and Muhammad Atef, the mili~ 
tary commander or bin Laden!s 
alleged terrorist organization, with 
conspiracy in the Aug. 1 bombings at 
U.S. embassies in Nairobi, K(:)nya, and Dar es Salaam, Tan;zania. Twelve America.lls··were amort~ the 224 peo· 
pie killed. .. .· .. ··• •··•··.· .. · .
The · · · · as the mr·At'.itor organization • 
countries. Hi.s 

a Brooklyn·.., .... ,,.,............. 
said the men were being tracked down by the largest contingent of agents his agency had. ever sent abroad to investigate a crime. 
But he conceded that everything the FBI could do along with the $5 million reward, the largest ever offered by the State Department, might not be enough to track down bin Laden. who is believed to be living in Afghanist<ul. 
''.There's no doubt he has the resources to stay hidden," Sehiliro said. If convicted, bin Laden and Atllf could face the death penalty. 
U.S. law provides for the trial in the United States of' those charged in ter· ror attacks against American citizens, even if carried out on foreign soil. Two other suspects in the bombings were sent to the United States because Kenya was wary that a trial .in the African nation might invite new terrorist assaults. 

Brussels, Belgium, was arrested gave Serbian officials a list of for allegedly supplying "intelli­areas that NATO targeted for gence to a foreign power." He is airstrikes. 
I 
I • I 
I 
NOTRE DAME PRESS 
DIRTY BOOK SALE 
Clean up on scandalously low priced dirty,dusty, and ot:herwise damaged books. They're abused but: t:ot:ally readable! 
Hesbureh LibrarY Concourse November 4 & 5~ 1998 9:00a.m.-3:30P.m. 
Clothbound -$4.00 PaPerbacks-$3.00 
page 6 
for prog~aiD SU@port 
Cargill lnc. recently gr~QH ed $100,000 toward tM sup­port of programs in the Notre Dame College of Business Administration. 
The donation is a compo­nent of the Univ.ers 's Generations campaign. ·..•......···· 
has amassed $767 millio:hto date since its inception in May ofi997. ··· 
Over the next two years. the grant will provide funds for the O'Hara Lectures in Business Ethics. a which brings OUISlDI!ISS tives:tp•.••· campus speiak on, lss · their work. 
"This important ports business arly research diversity. in the -three !>f the
Je inte 

• fRANCE 

Officer accused of Serb help 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

French officials sought Wednesday to distance them­selves from a French officer accused of leaking details on threatened NATO airstrikes against Serb forces. 
Defense Minister Alain Richard said that France's sense of "relative calm" would only be verified on the ground, when it takes part in a NATO security mission in Kosovo. 
Pierre Bunel, a 46-year-old French army official posted in accused of supplying informa­Richard, speaking on the tion to the Serbs during the state-run television channel, October standoff over Kosovo, a said the officer committed ·~veri­province of southern Serbia, the table treason." But he added dominant republic of that, working within the French Yugoslavia. delegation to NATO, Burrel 
Western powers, led by the would not have had access to United States, threatened NATO operational plans. airstrikes to force Yugoslav Foreign Minister Hubert President Slobodan Milosevic to Vedrine said the matter is withdraw police and military "extremely regrettable" but does forces in Kosovo, where sepa­not harm France's role in NATO. ratists are seeking indepen­"What happened is in no way dence. linked to our policies, which are 
Judicial sources in France, totally clear," Vedrine told the who spoke on condition of LCI television channel. "And our anonymity, said Bunel allegedly partners are well aware of that." 
Thursday, November 5, 1998

The Observer • NEWS 
• IRAQ 
U.N. demands arms inspections 
Associated Press 
The Security Council put the final touches Wednesday on a draft resolution that demands Iraq cooperate with international arms inspectors but threatens no force if Baghdad fails to comply. 
The proposed resolution, which council members were expected to adopt Thursday, notes the coun­cil's willingness to discuss easing economic sanctions against Iraq once Baghdad is disarmed. 
Iraq's U.N. ambassador, Nizar Hamdoon, said Wednesday that Baghdad might reconsider its decision Saturday to halt cooperation with inspectors if council gave some indication as to when sanctions might be reduced. 
"This is our basic" require­ment right now," he said. 
The United States has pre­vented the council from giv­ing Baghdad explicit assur­ances. But U.S. officials said Wednesday they could go along with the resolution as drafted. 
On Saturday, Iraq announced it was ending all cooperation with inspectors from the U.N. Special Commission, which must certify that Iraq has destroyed its banned weapons before sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990 were imposed. 
The draft condemns Iraq's decision to cut off the inspectors as a "flagrant vio­lation" of U.N. resolutions. 
While it doesn't threaten any force, it cites past coun­cil resolutions that threat­ened Iraq with the "severest consequences" if it failed to allow inspectors unfettered access to suspected weapons sites. 
Regardless, the United States has threatened Iraq with force if it doesn't allow inspectors to do their work. 
Defense Secretary William 

THE 26th ANNUAL 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 4 & 5 at 7 prn Sun., Dec. 6 at 2 & 7 prn Regina North Lounge 

This festive holiday event features a menu fit for a king plus entertain­
-t%1­

ment by colorfully-attired jesters, musicians, and singers from the SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 

NOTRE DAME, IN219/284-4778 

Cohen visited Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar on Wednesday to seek support from key Persian Gulf coun­tries in the Clinton adminis­tration's latest showdown with Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein. 

Deputy U.S. Ambassador Peter Burleigh called the resolution "a good. strong resolution" because it con­demns Iraq's decision to halt disarmament inspections. 
"That's a very important development from our point of view," he said. 
Russian ambassador Sergey Lavrov said the reso­lution does not authorize the use of force, however. 

The Security Council has said the sanctions will not be lifted until the U.N. ins.pec­tors certify that Iraq is free of nonconventional weapons. Iraq, however, wants a timetable on when U.N. sanctions will be lifted 
before  allowing  U.N.  
weapons  inspections  to  
resume.  

ALL NEW &RECENT TITLES! 

page 7

Thursday, November 5, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 

• BRAZIL 


Congress approves' 
economic reform 
A..sociated J>ress 
SAO PAULO 

Brazil's president scored a crucial victory Wednesday when Congress approved a belt-tightoning measure in a vote that the government hopes will prove it is serious about economic reform. 
Congress voted 343-125 to approve the measure, which will set a $1,000 monthly pension coiling for retirees from the social security sys­tem. Any higher amount must come from private pen­sion funds. 
Congress still must vote on two related bills in a social security reform package that 
8 p m , h 

appalachian sprlno cop land 
the lark ascending veauuhu.n williams 
was introduced nearly three years ago. If approved, the reforms are expected to save $2.5 billion. 
While the amount is barely enough to make a dent in Brazil's deficit, it would go along way toward provi,ng that Brazil's i.ndependerit;,, minded Congress is serious about cutting the country's ballooning budget deficit of around $65 billion -7 per­cent of the country's gross domestic product. 
The vote helps the govern· ment measure its chances of getting Congress to approve fiscal austerity measures unveiled last week, analysts said. 
u r s d a y
1 1 . 5 . 9 8 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a strategy fitting the mes­sage voters sent Republicans, !-louse Judiciary Committee Chairman I lenry Hyde told GOP members of his panel Wednesday he presently plans to call only prosecutor Kenneth Starr and one other witness at impeachment hearings, House oflicials said. 
Hyde met with his top investi­gators in his home state of Illinois, then held a conference call with .Judiciary Committee Republicans in which he laid out a hearing schedule for an impeachment inquiry that would finish by year's end. 
He told the panel members he planned to call Independent Counsel Starr to testify at a hearing on Nov. 19, according to House oflicials familiar with the conference call, who spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
Hyde also said he plans to call an expert on the meaning of tes­tifying under oath to help the committee in deciding whether President Clinton committed perjury in his testimony about Monica Lewinsky as Starr has alleged, one oflicial said. 
But the chairman added dur­
ing the call that he was leaving 
several open dates for other wit-· 
nesses to possibly be called if 
members or his investigators 
request additional testimony. 
Democrats have been pressing 
Hyde to call Starr as they con­
tinue to try to make the prose­
cutor's conduct an issue in the 
panel's inquiry into a presiden­
tial affair and alleged coverup. 
Hyde had planned even before the election to wrap up the hearings quickly, and had accepted his investigators' rec­ommendations that witnesses like Ms. Lewinsky need not be summoned to testify after hav­ing already given their accounts to a grand jury. 
Before the conference call, Hyde issued a brief public state­ment that Tuesday's election results would not affect his plans for the inquiry. But 
'THE COMMITTEE CON­
TINUES TO HAVE A 
CLEAR CONSTITUTIONAL 
DUTY TO COMPLETE ITS 

WORK IN A FAIR AND EXPEDI­
TIOUS MANNER.' 

HENRY HYDE HousE'JUDICIARY CoMMIITEE CHAR/MAN 
around Washington, Repubticans and Democrats alike said the GOP's net loss of five seats in the House sent a message that voters want the inquiry wrapped up quickly. 
One .Judiciary Committee 
member, Rep. Asa Hutchinson, 
R-Ark., sounded that sentiment. 
Hutchinson called on Starr to 
move urgently if he plans to 
send the committee any addi­
tional impeachment material. 
The voters "reiterated they want 
this matter behind us," he 

carolyn plummer. vlolln ro 
admission free

aomonl overlure 
open to tha public

beethoven, op 84 

House calls Starr for hearings 
warned. 
The hearing will come at the same time that Ilouse Hepublicans hold reorganization meetings that could result in leadership shakeups. llyde was asked on the call whether any internal party wrangling would affect the inquiry. He said it would not, the officials said. 
Hyde, in a written statement, took note of the election results but publiely stayed on the high ground. "The committee contin­ues to have a clear constitution­al duty to complete its work in a fair and expeditious manner. This was just as true before the election as it is today. Our duty has not changed because the Constitution has not changed," he said. 
Currently, the hearings would encompass only allegations of perjury, obstruction of justice and witness tampering related to Clinton's concealment of his sexual relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. 
However, Starr could soon 
send Congress additional infor­
mation on potentially impeach­
able conduct, possibly on allega­
tions by former White House 
aide Kathleen Willey of an 
improper sexual advance by 
Clinton. While the president has 
admitted improper conduct with 
Ms. Lewinsky, he has denied 
Mrs. Willey's accusations. 
Hutchinson said the commit­
tee should tell Starr, "We·v~ got 
to conclude this matter. The 
public wants Starr to wrap this 
matter up as well. It is critically 
important that if he has any­
thing, to send it over immediatn­
ly." 

Notre Dame's Campus-Wide Service Week 
sponsored by Circle-K, co-sponsored by HOBY, Habitat for Humanity, and Recyclin' Irish 
Saturday. November 7 HOBY-12-4:15 -make sack lunches for Center for the Homeless and watch the BC game 
Sunday. November 8 Humane Society-time TBA-use those finger painting urges to good use and give this animal haven a fresh coat of paint L Habitat for Humanity-BAM-12:15PM-continue constructing this year's Habitat House-get to wear a tool belt 
.. 
a

Monday. November 9 
Chapin Street Clinic-time TBA -break out the packing boxes and get the Clinic ready for its big move Holy Cross Living Center-4-6:15 -one on one interaction with special needs adults 
Tuesday. November 10 Hope Rescue Mission-2 -5:15 -use your painting skills to brighten up this center Center for the Homeless-3 -5:15PM -get your hands dirty! -revitalize and improve this shelter 
Wednesday. November 11 
Dismas House-3-5:15PM-upkeep of this unique house for ex-criminals 
Boys and Girls Club-3:15 -5:30PM-miss recess?-tutor and participate in various games with children 
Thursday. November 12 Recyclin' Irish-4-6:45PM-check out NO's recycling system and separate recyclables (hard hats & pizza provided!) Boys and Girls Club-3:15-5:30PM-see above 
Friday. November 13 Park Clean-Up-3 -5:15PM-get into the autumn spirit and help beautify a neighborhood park 
0 

Saturday. November 14 
Habitat for Humanity -8:00AM -12:OOPm -see above 
NEN Clean-Up-time TBA -renovate crack houses in South Bend 
Logan Rec Saturday -lO:OOAM -12:OOPM -pass the crayons! -arts and crafts with the disabled 



Tansportation Provided 
Sign-Ups: Thursday, November 5 -> 9 -11 PM Lafortune Friday, November 6 -> 5 -7PM North Dining Hall Saturday, November 7 -> 5 -7PM South Dining Hall 
Space is limited! First come, first to serve!! Questions? Contact Matt Banach x3807 or Aileen Barry x2674 
.... 
page 8 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 5, 1998 
• ElECTIONS 

Gingrich accepts responsibility for midterm elections 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Blindsided by midterm elec­tion setbacks, House Republicans talked Wednesday of quickly wrapping up impeachment proceedings against President Clinton and raised the prospect of chal­lenges to Speaker Newt Gingrich or other party leaders. 
"Look, I'm the speaker, so I 'II take responsibility," 
said at a

Gingrich morning-after news conference at home in Georgia as the names of potential chal­lengers began to circu­late. "We should prob­ably have aggressively 


pushed cutting taxes and saving Social Security much harder than we did this year." 
At the same time, the Georgia Republican spoke dismissively of any challenge to his own leadership. 
"I think the people who nor­mally are quoted in this are people who would in fact take the party to a narrower base with fewer members," he said. 
House Democrats held a cam­paign-style pep rally at which they depicted Tuesday's returns as a step on the road to reolaiming a majority in two years. 
"This is a repudiation of try­ing to run a campaign without issues and their obsession with impeachment," said Dick Gephardt, the House Democratic leader. "They spent $110 million more than we did and they still lost." 
Gingrich sidestepped a ques­tion of whether the House should be called into special session to consider the impeachment issue, or wait until the 106th Congress is sworn in next year. 
But Rep. David Dreier, R­Calif, the incoming chairman of statement saying, "Our duty has not changed because the Constitution has not changed." Public opinion polls, including one taken of voters on Election Day, showed widespread disap­proval for congressional han­dling of the impeachment issue. 
As for the election results, with one race yet to be settled, the likelihood was for Democratic gains of five seats in 
the House. That would leave the GOP with a paper-thin, six-seat majority and mark the first time since 1934 that the party holding the White House had picked up House seats in a midterm election. 
Democratic Sen. Harry Reid's victory in a late, long count in Nevada left the Senate where it stood business, their concerns, their 
children, their families, their 
future addressed," he said. 

Among Republicans, the day 
after the elections brought 
unhappy political postmortems, 
even though, as Gingrich point­
ed out numerous times, the GOP 
will hold control of the House 
for three straight terms for the 
first time in seven decades. 

Aside from Gingrich, none of ,.the other top leaders appeared in public during the day or returned phone calls. 
Several Republicans, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Indiana Rep. David Mcintosh's name had surfaced as a poten­tial rival for Gingrich. Mcintosh's spokesman declined comment, and the congress­man, who has been an occa­sional irritant for the leadership in the past, did not return a phone call. 


'WESHOUID PROBA­
BLY HAVE AGGRES-­SIVELY PUSHED CUTIING TAXES AND SAVING SOCIAL SECURITY MUCH HARDER 
THAN WE DID THIS YEAR.' 
NEwr GINGRICH before the balloting-55 SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE Republicans and 45 
the House Rules Committee, said the likelihood of completing action on the issue this year is "very very great and I think the election has ·played a role in ensuring that. None of-us has a desire to drag that out," he said in an interview on CNN. 
Another Republican House member, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the elec­tion pushes the issue toward a resolution that Clinton can live with-such as "some 'censure­plus' punishment." 
The House Judiciary Committee is scheduled to begin hearings later this month, and the panel's chairman, Illinois Rep. Henry Hyde, issued a 
Democrats. Several statenouses changed hands across the country. 
Like Gingrich, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott acknowl­edged disappointment with the results, but said he expected no challenges to the leadership. 
"I don't see it happening in the Senate," he said, although some GOP aides said Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who chaired the campaign commit­tee, might be challenged in his bid for a second term. 
Clinton avoided any reference to impeachment in his com­ments to reporters. "If you look at all the results, they're clear and unambiguous: the American people want their 
The U rlb.tm !Plungl'" Seminar The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urbn setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past have included: 
Albany  New Orleans  Baltimore  Phoenix  
Atlanta  Memphis  Washington  Honolulu  
Brooklyn  Nashville  Los Angelos  Harlem  

Seattle a11d many more sites 
As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. There will be an information session TONIGHT at 7:00 at the CSC and LeMans 
Not I but the city teaches. · Socrates 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, Contact the Center for Social Concerns @ 631·5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu/-cklurbanplunge 
APPLICATION DEADLINE--FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 



Lyons Hall Presents ... 
the 6th Annual 

2 mile run on Saturday, November 7 at 9:00AM. 
Meet on the Lyons Basketball Courts by 8:45 to register and pick up your t -shirt 
...Run, walk, rollerblade, etc . 
. . . Prizes awarded to top finishers and most spirited runners! 
Sign up the day of the race for $12. The cost includes a long-sleeve t-shirt and breakfast after the run. 
All proceeds collected will benefit the Mara Fox Scholarship awarded to a sophomore studying abroad in Spain. 

~~-~-~--~ -~--~-­
Thursday, November 5, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
----~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
• ELECTIONS • IRAN 
Voter turnout low for 01idterm elections 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Citizen participation in this year's midterm election was about 36 percent or 37 percent of the voting-age population, down slightly from 38.4 per­cent in 1994, analysts said Wednesday. 
That is typical for most midterm ~~lections since 197 4. 
Elnctions analyst Curtis Gans said his preliminary estimate of the 1998 turnout would range from 36 percent to 37 percent. Thn Voter News Servicn pegged turnout at an even 37 percent. 
The final official result will not bn available for weeks until 
all absentee and write-in bal­
lots are certified. 

"The decline that we're see­ing is more than people have so far represented but it is not at all uniform" across the 50 states, Gans said. "But there is an absolute decline in total numbers." 
Voter turnout decreased in 37 states and increased in just 11 compared to 1994, he said. 
The states registering increases over the election four years ago are Alabama, Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Louisiana, Maryland, Minnesota, North Carolina, South Carolina and Wisconsin, Gans said. 
Student Activities is now hiring: 
Ballroom Monitor primarily evenings and weekends 
UPS Shipping Service Attendants Shifts: llam-6pm M-F llam-2pm Saturdays 

Applications available at the Student Activities Office 31.5 LaFortune 
ALEX KOTLOWITZ 
Speaking: 
November 6th 1Friday) 
Washington Hall 
7:30PM SOCIAL 


CONCERNS Breaking The Silence: Growing Up in Today's Inner City 
THE OTHER SIDE 

OF THE RIVER 
A STORY oF Two To'·Vi'!S, A DEATH Al''D A\MERIC:~.·s DILE:Mi'vll-\ 
Free and Open to the Public 
As part of the Andrews & McMeel Second Annual Conference on Summer Service Learning: Focus on Youth 

Iranians mark seizure of embassy 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN 

Iranians burned American 
flags and chanted "Death to 
America" Wednesday but the 
rally marking Iran's seizure of 
the U.S. Embassy lacked the 
revolutionary fervor that 
spawned the takeover 19 years 
ago. 
About 20,000 people -most­ly school children and high school students given a day off for the rally-gathered outside the former U.S. Embassy for the annual demonstration. 
But atmosphere among par­ticipants, most born since the takeover, was distinctly carni­val -gone was the anger and zeal that drove Islamic students to seize the embassy on Nov. 4, 1979. and hold 52 Americans hostage for 444 days. 
Anti-American sentiment has been a cornerstone of Iranian policy. But the rhetoric has been losing edge since the elec­tion last year of President Mohammad Khatami, a moder­ate cleric who has encouraged ties with Americans. 
Most demonstrators respond­
ed sporadically and indifferent­
ly to calls of "Death to 
America" from a speaker 
directing the show from behind 
a microphone on a platform. 
Calls for "Death to Israel" got a 
more enthusiastic response 
instead. 

Thousands of colorful fliers 
denouncing America and Israel 
were thrown into the air like 
confetti and children waved 
balloons printed with calls for 
Israel's destruction. 

A few listened as Mohsen Rezaei, a hard-line leader and former army commander, criti­cized efforts to re-establish ties with the United States. 
He said Iran should consider 
opening a dialogue with the 
U.S. 
government only when its president publicly apologizes to Iran. 

U.S. 
officials, who have long accused Iran of supporting, ter­rorism, softened their stand after Khatami's victory and suggested a dialogue could be started. But the Clinton admin­istration says relations can't significantly improve until 


Tehran cuts ties to terrorists 
and drops opposition to the 
Middle East peace process. 
Amir Khojasteh, a 25-year­
old demonstrator, said he 
favored ties with the United 
States as long as "we stand 
beside them, not behind them." 
Ahmad Heza Mahdavi, a 
17-year-old student wearing a 
T-shirt with a picture of Titanic 
movie star Leonard DiCaprio, 
said he harbored no hatred 
against the United States. 
"I don't dislike America too 
much, but we must accept that 
the American government is 
not fair to Iran," said Mahdavi. 
Seyed Morteza Sahebi, 55, who was with the mob that stormed the embassy in 1979, said he still felt the same anger about the United States. 
The takeover of the embassy was a turning point in the 1979 Islamic Hevolution that over­threw the pro-U.S. shah's regime and installed the Shiite clerical government. 
Hardly anyone in Iran will publicly criticize the seizure. Khatami defended it Wednesday. 

IN MOTION 

Information is a moving target. 
If you're planning to trade valu­able time and resources for a gradu­ate degree in this growing new field, you need one that will keep you ahead of the curve. 
A graduate degree from the University of Michigan's School of Information prepares you to lead the future of information systems and services throughout all segments of society. 
In our dynamic, two-year·master's program, students fr?m diverse.a.ca­demic backgrounds hke humamt1es, 


computers, social sciences, and math gain direct access to our world-class faculty and facilities. With lead­ing-edge specializations -Hu­man Computer Interaction; Ar­chives and Records Manage­ment; Information Economics, Management and Policy; and Li­
brary and Information Services ­you can tailor your studies and prac­
tical experience to excel in the digi­tal age. And, our innovative doc­toral program trains you for a re­search career in this fast-paced discipline. 
Graduate Studies in Information 
www.si.umich.edu 
VIEWPOINT 

• FoR A MORE JUST AND HUMANE WORLD 
"What's he been smoking down there?" 
My father has never asked this ques­tion out loud, but I suspect that the thought has crossed his mind more than once. 
A little over three years ago I took my designer-label bachelor's degree and traded it off for a round-trip ticket to Jamaica. Rather than landing a lucrative job through my powerful Notre Dame connections, I elected to spend two years as a member of the Notre Dame Volunteer Programme/Jamaica (NDVPJ). Specifically, I would be utilizing my BS in Mathematics as a teacher at Alpha Academy in Kingston. 
I finagled a ticket to Paradise, but that Paradise didn't come in the form of Kingston. In fact, my setting in Kingston often resembled hell. The windows and doorways of my house were overlaid · with steel bars for protection. I was often the victim of theft. I spent sleepless nights ducking under my window as gun battles exploded outside. 
Despite the occasional terror, my two years as a volunteer proved to be the best two years of my life. I loved teach­ing. For the first time since my Summer Service Project at Notre Dame, I found myself surviving relatively comfortably as I pursued an ideal. Obviously, my work at the school wasn't driven by dol­lar signs. Rather, it was driven by a love for my students and a desire to help them succeed. 
Indeed, I worked so hard that I distin­guished myself at the school. Parents, administrators, teachers and, especially, students loved me. My accomplishments at Alpha helped me land a spot at Harvard's Graduate School of Education. 
I completed my master's degree in just over a year's time. My newfound con­nections at Harvard helped me. land numerous teaching offers from presti­gious private schools all over the world. I knew, however, that my Harvard degree wasn't as valuable as my Notre Dame degree, so I turned it in for a one­way ticket to Jamaica. 
I am once again a lowly math teacher at Alpha Academy, with the added duty of directing the NDVPJ. I recognize that as I grow as a professional, my responsi­bilities as an educator also grow. During my second sojourn to Jamaica, I see myself as a social activist working for change rather than a teacher trying to help out in a school. I've become a bit of voice in the public forum regarding the educational system in Jamaica. I'm also implementing some pretty radical changes where I teach. In addition, I feel that the NDVPJ, which I direct, will pro­vide teachers in the areas of greatest need. And, the NDVPJ teachers will receive training from me, so they will be engaging in a more innovative pedagogy than the current norm. 
No, it wasn't ganja (marijuana) that inspired this risky career move. Nor was it some delusion that I would be able to come and change Jamaica for the better. While I do have access to some resources that may help the island, I realize that my primary reason for being here is to learn. I look at my daily work as further graduate study, and I'm find­ing this city to be a more enlightening school than any other institution I've attended. 
!listen to Bob Marley, look out my door, and see the world that this prophet is describing. I speak to some Rasta friends and learn more about the philos­ophy that inspired Bob. I witness with amazement the impact that my own Catholic Church has had on this island. While only 6 percent of the island's resi­dents are Catholic, the Church has a dis­proportionately large presence in educa­tion and social services. My housemate is a Jamaican woman who survived the mean streets of Kingston's Olympic Gardens and went off to earn a Master's Degree in Social Work at Columbia University. She, too, is a Catholic. I draw wisdom and support from other socially active, influential members of my Notre Dame family on the island. The greatest teachers I have, however, are my stu­dents. They motivate and inspire me every day. 
Despite the many sources of personal uplifting, Kingston remains a scary place to live. Riots and murders seem more and more prevalent. Respect for civil authority gets lower and lower. There is little to no political stability, and no one is really sure whether the corrupt gov­ernment or the gun-toting "dons" down­town hold the support of the people. It takes a healthy dose of paranoia and a heaping spoonful of faith to survive down here. 
As a Catholic educator, I strive to teach the message of survival every day. The word "survival" hits much more close to home to me now that I live in Jamaica. Before I moved here, I never had to worry about surviving (literally staying alive). In the U.S., we tend to be more concerned about issues of comfort and luxury. Here, however, just the basic necessities of life are the chief con­cern of many of my students. Even for myself, I find that an overwhelming per­centage of my budget goes toward food and rent. I have little, if anything left over for clothes, medical supplies, enter­tainment, etc. I'm not canonizing myself, because I know that I'm still living better than over 50 percent of the world's pop­ulation. 
I believe that the most effective means of survival is that which Christ taught 2,000 years ago. Humans must love each other as brothers and sisters. My ideolo­gy may sound too simplistic, but as a Domer I've seen how far my "Notre Dame family" has carried me in my career. Can you imagine a world in which everyone treats each other in the spirit of mutual cooperation that Notre Dame alums tend to do? Take it a step further -can you imagine a world in which everyone treats each other as family? Jesus knew of such a world, and he pointed the way for us to reach it. 

•  DooNESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
/,IJOK_ I'VE At/A/AY5HAN­aa? 7H& /X){/64FOR 7H/5 anF/7/ I'M Gi/1<!3 NOT 601Ak3 70 S7DP NOlA!/  8IfTI'l$'AtR/3A/7Y /NVeslCPIT, aJC.I<5. . IN ANS&P INJ?eX . RJN/?ANP5014£. UIX&I? T-8/Ul?...  /AIHYNOT? AN"" pa/HATtwl/IP :Ai-YOU HAV/3 IN/16X FUNP !NVl5ll3P ANI?MIXEP ''N Cl 7 7=8/U$/ II 'T. 7HATSIUHAT.' \  

I believe that it takes a Jesus or a Moses or a Muhammed or a Buddha or a Haile Selassie to lead the people in the direction they need to go. If people are COMMITTED to a spiritual though1/ideal!morality, then we will begin to take care of each other rather than kill each other. Educators in Jamaica with serious religious convic­tions are attempting to break down the mental chains that prevent Jamaicans from uniting under a common moral code. We stress the necessity of serving one another as a means of uplifting the entire community. Our work is urgent. If a revolution in thought does not occur, a revolution of bloodshed seems inevitable. 
I am but one soldier in a holy war: a war that is being fought over the hearts and minds of Jamaica's next generation of leaders. A better society will come, but the Christian soldiers of Jamaica will have to work tirelessly toward the cre­ation of the Promised Land. Like Moses, none of us can expect to see it in our own lifetime. I did trade in my worldly laurels for a ticket to Paradise -I just have to keep working my way there. 
Michael C. E:qan, ND '95, can be reached at ndvpj@mailcity.com with comments or questions. NDVPJ informa­tion is available at the Center for Social Concerns. 
For A More Just And Humane World is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Center for Social Concerns or The Observer. 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Itreat wine the way I treat beer: drink it and look for more.' -Dave Berry 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 5, 1998 
----------------------------------------------page II 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Catholic Catechism does not Provide Excuse to Discriminate 
David Freddoso, Sean Vinck and the pros and cons of abortion in its their cohorts would have us believe library. It would not be damaged by that opposition to the inclusion of sex­the presence of similar materials in ual orientation in Notre Dame's non­the library and files of the Women's diseriminati<m clause and support for Resource Center. It has not been the administration's censorship of the damaged by the inclusion of sexual Women's Hesource Center are based orientation in its rule against harass­upon "intellectual docility" toward ment. It will not be damaged by the Catholic doctrine and a desire to safe­inclusion of sexual orientation in its guard the university's Catholic "iden­non-discrimination clause. The truth tity." llowr,ver. a closfl. logical exami­of the matter is that in these current nation of the facts discloses the controversies it is Notre Dame's iden­hypocrisy of these claims. Somehow, tity as a "university" rather than its neither their concern for intellectual Catholic identity that is at stake. docility nor their concern for Catholic Nov. 4 marks the 29th anniversary idnntity has prevented them from of the appointment of Bayard Rustin ignoring Catholic doctrine as a member of Notre Dame's that requiros the avoid­Board of Trustees. Rustin anen of evory sign of -a long-time civil unjust discrimina­rights organizer and tiim toward homo­activist who is sexuals. Nor regarded as one of have these the two architects alleged eon­of the famous corns pre­1963 "March vented them on from ignor­Washington," ing Catholic an anti-war doctrine activist who that 
requirns :_~~::::::::::~~~~~~~------~~~~spentand atwohalf respect years in for imli­prison vidual because of eon-his consci­seinnce. entious For objection example, to the proposi­Second tion 1776 World War, in tlw and an Catechism active of the advocate for Catholic the rights of Church workers, for states: independence "Conscience for India and is man's most the emerging secret core and African nations his sanetuary and for the estab­... " Proposition lishment of Israel l 782 deelares: as a Jewish home­"Man has the right to land -was not only act in eonsdence and Notre Dame's first in freedom so as personal­African American trustee. ly to make moral decisions. He was also its first openly 'lie must not be foreed to act contrary homosexual trustee. Throughout his to his conscience. Nor must he be life he faced discrimination because prevented from acting according to of both his race and his sexual orien­his conscience ... " Finally, proposi­tation. As we approach the 30th tion 1789 states as a rule explicitly anniversary of his appointment as a applicable in every case that "charity trustee, the most appropriate, posthu­always proceeds by way of respect for mous tribute that the university could one's neighbor and his conscience." pay to him in recognition of his life­Nowhere arc homosexuals denied the long commitment to equal rights and right to follow their own informed his service to both humanity and eonseinncn. Nowhere is anyone Notre Dame would be to add sexual nxemptnd from the obligation to orientation to its non-discrimination rnspoet the informed conscience of clause. homosexuals. Notre Dame's Catholic identity per­Lawrence J. Bradley sists despite the presence of non­Notre Dame J.D. '60, M.A. '62, Ph.D. '71 Catholics among its students, staff Member, New York Bar and GALA-ND/SMC and faculty. Indeed, it persists despite October 29, 1998 oflkial recognition of organizations formed by members of other reli­gions. It has not been damaged by the presnnce of matnrials dealing with 
• THE BEAT 

Of Octopuses and Leprechauns ... 
Magic and magicians ... structure imagines what it is like to be a football and scholastics ... a network and a player. ("The stadium is where they family ... faith and reason ... days and live, and they wake in the mornings to ·nights where a golden "sun" never sets the open arms of Touchdown Jesus.") ... respected Rocks and resonant bells One crisp, clear night last winter, while pealing out ... wonderful home away strolling companionably across campus from home. in the moonlight, he pointed to the 
Airborne octo­!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!= gleaming Dome puses ... apathetic and told me, confi­latecomers ... an dentially, "That's affectionate, where he lives." adventurous 34-"Who, Dillon?" 
Brittany
inch tall lep­"The Leprechaun." rechaun. During halftime, Did you get all as Dillon the Little
Morehouse
that? Leprechaun bent 
The latest sea of down to pick up discussion regard-marshmallows, ing spectator "events" within the "big joyfully joining in a harmless, fun tra­event" upon which Notre Dame prides dition, a flying octopus sailed above his itself has been focused upon a mollusk head. His innocence and hero-worship with eight arms. I was surprised, to say seemed tainted, and I am glad he 

the least, at the originality of some stu­never noticed the ugliness above. dents in their quest to amplify a fishy Notre Dame is magic. Of course, I issue at halftimes. It reminded me of understand that this special-ness does my high school days. As a senior Elyria not mean expectations so lofty that Catholic Panther in Elyria, Ohio, I they are unrealistic. Notre Dame is cheerfully alighted in the parking lot also a college campus. It's part of our on the morning of the football game job description to have fun. However, against our greatest rivals, and was is it too much to expect students to disgusted to find a dead black cat make it to kick-olT instead of half time, 
·hanging from our flagpole. and in a semi-coherent state? To 
Some pranks are humorous. I don't refrain from raiding aquariums for advocate abolishing all good-natured, game tossing objects so that others clever, unusual school pranks. In fact, I may have fun with marshmallow fights don't care much for cats, and it's kind in the future? of difficult to feel very warm and fuzzy I do not intend to lecture nor do I toward octopuses. However, I would pretend to have all the answers. But I never yank them up a pole or fling do know that a common theme of my their carcasses around in the air. editorials has been the issue of person­Ultimately, it boils down to this: the al choice. As Notre Dame students, we soaring sea creature was illegally have the most extraordinary opportu­thrown just as the lifeless house pet nities to express ourselves. was illegally hung. These actions vio­Interestingly, Webster includes a sec­late the sanctity of the visible remains ondary definition of octopus: "Any of what was once God-given life, and, organized power with far-reaching as such, are extreme. influence." We at Notre Dame must 
I never actually witnessed the infa­choose to safeguard our far-reaching mous soaring octopus of Saturday's influence -our magic -the luster of halftime performance. Not because I our golden image. To a great extent we wasn't there -no. At the time, I was choose our actions. Our actions reaeh distracted by the delightful presence of out into corners we cannot imagine, a tiny green leprechaun. Fiercely corners inhabited by wee folk who arc shouting for the blue and gold, this lit­absorbing the octopus-like influence of tle four year old was dressed from top the things we do. to toe in green and gold. He had per­Indeed, magic doesn't just "happon." fected the specific motions and chants Magic requires magicians ... that would of the "real Notre Dame leprechaun." be us. lie squealed with glee upon his first­ever sight of the impressive marching Brittany Morehouse is a sophomore band, lustily singing every word to the English and American studies major Fight Song. He led as many sections as exiled to an off-campus apartment. She he could in a "GO!" ... "IRISH!" ... would like to congratulate her ex­cheer, pointing his tiny finger to the roommate. Meaghan Leahy, for making right and then the left a!; the student it to the start ofher season. ller col­section supported him with their umn appears every other Thursday. responding shouts. The views expressed in this column 
Dillon Patrick has been raised believ­are those ofthe author and not neces­ing in the "magic" of Notre Dame. He sari(lJ those of The Observer. 

OTHE 
Thursday, November 5, 1998
BSERVER 

Run, 
om 
These days, it seems like everyone has joined th the campus pound the pavement on the paths aro1 And even though most people may not be seri<1 thought a little advice might benefit all of the rt ! Mary's. With a little help from Bob Glover's The l! 
1

Runners Club's Complete Book of Running, we ca1 I 
, 
I 
Nutrition 

The key to successful running is, of course, eating a healthy and balanced diet. Long distance runners should also make sure to get enough of the following: 
Water -Simply put, if you're not hydrated, you won't get anywhere. The average sweat rate during running is about 12 to 1.5 quarts per hour. You can avoid dehydration by replenishing these fluids after your run and by continuing to drink enough water throughout the day. The general giudeline is at least eight-8-ounce glasses of fluid ­a day and runners should drink at least 2 or 3 additional quarts daily. If you drink a lot of caffeine, which is a diuretic and caus­es dehydration, then you must drink even more fluids. 
Carbohydrates -It is suggested that runners make sure that carbohydrates compose at least 60 percent of their daily caloric intake. There are two different types of car­bohydrates -simple carbohydrates and complex carbo­hydrates. 
•Simple carbohydrates -mainly sugars,provide 
quick energy because the body quickly converts them to~~~=~~~-~~::..JO~--'\ gluclose and absorbs them into the bloodstream. Soon after, however, a blood sugar low can decrease energy. Natural simple sugars can be found in fruits, juices and5 _-/-? 
vegetables. Refined sugars provide the same quick ener-~_ gy burst, but do not contain any vitamins or minerals. --.·-·· //7 
•Complex carbohydrates -these carbs take ---::::::=-:·==-//, longer to provide energy because it takes the body0=­longer to convert them into gluclose, but because the~ body absorbs them slowly, they provide a steady energy_·---·-­supply. Complex carbohydrates can be found in pasta,---____ ~~ cereal, bread and vegetables. ~-. 
Protein -Protein helps build muscles, strengthen bones ./1 and heal tissue injuries. Although runners do not need to ~ consume excessive amounts of protein, they still must con------~ sume some. Good sources of protein include lean meat, fish. poultry, legumes, nuts. beans, whole grains and cereals. eghg 
/

whites, low-fat milk, low-fat cheese and some vegetables. A lack of protein hurts performance and drains energy. ""' 
I 
//;,/

Fats -Believe it or not, some amount of fat is important in any diet. Not only does it serve as a source of energy, but it helps with the absorp­tion of vitamins A, D. E_ and K. There are two types of fats -saturated and unsaturated. Saturated fats (the bad fats) come mostly from red meat, milk, but­ter and vegetable oils. Unsaturated fats (the better kind) come from olive oil, peanut oil, corn oil, sunflower oil and fish oil. Choosing leaner cuts of meat and reduced and low­fat dairy products and avoiding processed foods that have more than three grams of fat per 100 calories can help keep your fat intake at a healthy level. Immediately prior to running or racing it is suggested that you avoid fats altogether since the body takes longer· to digest them. 

· Choosing the right pair of shoes 
Runnings shoes are the only piece of equipment you really to run. Choosing the right pair is important to prevent injury. When choosing your shoes, keep in mind how much milage you'll be doing, what size feels most comfortable and how you place your foot when you run (heel first or the ball of your foot first).Try on both shoes of the pair and walk around in them. Check for cushioning, flexibility and weight (are they too heavy?). When you fmd a pair that feels right, buy it. DOn't worry about the latest fashion or fads. If your feet are hitting the ground in bad shoes that look good, they won't help you out at all. 
Bob Glover's Beginning Runner's Program Week 1 -Run 1 minute, Walk 2 minutes. Repeat 7 times. Week 2 -Run 2 minutes, Walk 2 minutes. Repeat 5 times. Week 3 -Run 3 minutes, Walk 2 minutes. Repeat 4 times. Week 4 -Run 5 minutes, Walk 2 minutes. Repeat 3 times. Week 5 -Run 6 minutes, Walk 1 1/2 minutes. Repeat 3 times. Week 6 -Run 8 minutes, Walk 1 1/2 minutes. Repeat 2 times. Week 7 -Run 10 minutes, Walk 1 1/2 minutes. Repeat 2 times. Week 8 -Run 12 minutes, Walk 1 minute, Run 8 minutes. Week 9-Run 15 minutes, Walk 1 minute, Run 5 minutes. Week 10-Run 20 minutes nonstop. 
program courtesy of The Runner's Handbook 



Thursday, November 5, 1998------------------O THE page 13
BSERVER 


ers, Run 
running craze. On a nice day, a majority of d the lakes or the sidewalks around campus. sly training for any particular race, Scene 
eational runners at Notre Dame and Saint unner's Handbook and The New York Road 
up with some helpful hints. 
~Real Runners 
instant as brief as an eye blink, my world 
r' 

sign. It looms up in front of me as I t'l.ri~d:viards··w.··.·u. .h·. my right hand, -open and the palm · ·· · down until it is me against my I like . will never reach the stop sign--like its' With every pounding step that I take , 
•,t:U~ays r91Daln just beyond the tips of my ; 
I 
Cross.. Training 

Bunning provides a great work-out, but not a complete work-out. Cross-train­. ~-~ ing helps improve total fitness ~nd it also help~ ~ork-out the muscles neces­::--..... ·, sary to improve your runnmg. Further, 1t IS extremely helpful when 
~" ~', rncovering from injuries or on the days following long runs. 
~ . If you want to increase Iitness in: 

Upper body -try swimming, racewalking, cross-country ski­ing, rowing, or deep-water running. 
Quadriceps -try biking, racewalking, cross-country ski­ing, rowing, swimming, stair climbing, skating or deep­water running. 
Ankles-try swimming or deep water running. 
Buttocks -try racewalking, cross-country skiing, row­ing or swimming.
#-~~~~~~~ 
Abdominals -try racewalking, cross-country skiing, ~_.----rowing, swimming or deep-water running. 
llips -try biking, racewalking or cross-country skiing. 
Lower back -try swimming or rowing. 
Shins -try biking. 

Treadmill Running 
Treadmills might seem like the perfect option for some run­""\ nnrs. When you run on a tradmill., there's no rain, snow.. cold or 
hills. You can keep water nearby and increase or decrease your spned as much as you want. Bunning on a treadmill, however, is a lot different from running 
outside and actually requires less efl'ort since there is no air resistence and lnss braking action when your foot strikes. On a treadmill, you might fe1~l likn you're running much f<tstor than you do outside. In order to monitor your pace, it is best to monitor your heart rate and not the computer on the tn~admill. Also, treadmill runners should be careful not to lean too far forward to 
lwop up with the moving belt. 

a different story. In a tiny, nagging am not a speed demon, not a racer, <W•~rV~rhelming:l) impressive. I'm just an average, of runner. and llean down to stretch. it whis· 
real runner 

earnE~dJthe right to call myself a real runner. 
....... .....:...~~...-•.-5K races. I have run alone and with 
at riight. I have run In all seasons 
and the cold. I have cried through 
couch and I have run when I 
I f()lt too tired or sore ot· had bet­. ter in the middle of long runs, spit . in the t and talked myself out of turning around to wo.lk 
hOp!~>• , . ,•:;·., ·•.••;<•·• 

· Afi.~l.~ b:av~ ~iljoy~(t:;~J,~ry minute of it -even the painful
ones:···· · ·· ··· ······ For me, running has become a tinte everyday when I can esca:t:~.e reality, A time.yvhen classes, exams, papers, work and the details 6ft:tiY dailyi:foutine slip away and life becomes as simple as my feet pounding the pavement. my lungs slwking in air and my heart pounding out its rhythm. A time when the boundaries a~d limitations of the real world disappear It's Mtbji\gto6 com:plicatedor complex. l'm just running beea.use 
I ci:iri. ·· 

At the end, then, it shouldn't matter what my watch or the na yo.i ... t acco:tnpanies itsays to me. When my palm ,sla , . , &to gn, allthat should matter is the fact tht\t I fin­
ished again: . ' 

· But as the world rushes hack to me, its boundaries and limi­
ta.~io re~p l'J{i,ck too, J look to my watch to judge my porfor­
:tllttn n.dl a~mostle't:the nagging voice convince thnt I might 
aswe quit.··· 
Almost. 

AndtbenlEell1embethow it feets to have the wind at my 
hacki~.ild aii open road in front of me. How it feels to have the 
noiseof the real world fade away. How it fMls to run alone. 

around the lakes in the fall with the leaves crunching bonMth 
. H9~.i~Jeels t~;run with my friends, talking or not 
•. t . ··.·.. ,justsijarlrig th¢ time together. How good .it feels to finish when ithurts and how good it feels to nm forever when I can: . 
IJ,"~JP er bowm~~h .I love running and once I remember tbat;·lf h~~ma.tter at all what the watch says to me. 
l don~treally know what makes a real runner. Maybe the time on the wateh means everything. Maybe anyone who can't wi~ EJite$ or sl)t perso~al records should just give up, but I dori'tthink:so\\lthinkreal runners love running. Simple as that. 
So, ha.ts offtoall you runners who love to do it, no ma.tter h Jl;!JR'¥YOU ll}.Q.Y go. I'm sure someday I'll see you out tb undtlie lakes?i:ir around campus. Just make sure you
Grete Waitz's Beginning Runner's Program 
wave to me when you pass by. 

WEEK I -ON THREE DAYS JOG/WALK EIGHT 100-YARD SEGMENTS, FOR 1 MILE. WEEK 2-ON THREE DAYS JOG/WALK FIVE 200-YARD SEGEMENTS FOR 1 1/4 MILES. WEEK ) -ON THREE DAYS JOG/WALK SEGMENTS OF 200 AND 400-YARDS FOR 1 1/2 MILES. WEEK 4-ON THREE DAYS JOG/WALK SGEMENTS BETWEEN 1/4-1/2 MILES FOR 1 3/4 MILES. WEEK 5-DAY 1: 1/2 MILE JOG, 1/4 MILE WALK, 1/2 MILE JOG, 1/4 MILE WALK, 1/2 JOG. 
DAY 2: 3/4 MILE JOG, 1/2 MILE WALK, 3/4 MILE JOG. 
DAY 3: 2 MILE JOG. WEEK 6-DAY 1: 1/2 MILE JOG, 1/4 MILE WALK, 3/4 MILE JOG, 1/4 MILE WALK, 1/2 MILE JOG. DAY 2: 1 MILE JOG, 1/4 MILE WALK, 1 MILE JOG. 
DAY 3: 2 1/4 MILE JOG. WEEK 7-ON THREE DAYS JOG 2 1/2 MILES. WEEK 8-ON THREE DAYS JOG 2 3/4 MILES. WEEK 9-ON THREE DAYS JOG 3 MILES. WEEK I0-ON THREE DAYS JOG 3 1/4 MILES ( 5K) 
t'R<.XlH.AM (l)UitTF$Y llFTHECl1MrLETE &XlK llf RUNNIN<.1 

~-----------------~ -----~------., 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 5, 1998 


Recchi scores as Canadiens down Rangers 
Associated Press The Canadiens went ahead shot that bounced in off a for the Avalanche, who fell to wrist shot sailed over 
3-1 with 7:28 left in the game Washington defender for his 3-7-1. Fitzpatrick's shoulder for the 
Mark Recchi scored the as Martin Rucinsky scored first goal and a 2-1 lead. The Leafs won despite going game-winner. Lindsay's sec­tiebreaking goal and assisted coming across the slot 38 sec­Kelly scored on a rebound of 0-for-4 on the power play. ond goal of the season was on another as the Montreal onds after Montreal killed off a Cory Cross' hard shot from the They are 4-for-60 this season unassisted. Canadiens beat the goal­Rangers power play. right point at 13:21, giving with the man advantage, worst After missing the first 10 starved New York Rangers 4-1 Damphousse closed out the Tampa Bay a two-goal cushion in the NHL. games of the season with Wednesday night. scoring with an empty-net goal that stood until Juneau's Sullivan ripped a shot over ankle and back injuries, 
Shayne Corson, Martin in the final minute. power-play goal with 1:15 left Roy's shoulder at 2:29 to open Florida's Dino Ciccarelli scored Rucinsky and Vincent in the period. the scoring. a power-play goal at 6:54 of Damphousse als·o scored for Lightning 5 Capitals 2 With Washington holding a Thomas made it 2-0 when he the second. It was career goal Montreal. John MacLean got two-man advantage, Juneau picked off a Colorado pass at No. 603, tying him with Mark the only goal for the Rangers, Wendel Clark scored two fired a slap shot past Puppa the blue line, broke in alone Messier for eighth place on the who have scored only three goals as Tampa Bay beat from the left circle. and blasted a shot past Roy. career goal-scoring list. The goals in their last four games. Washington 5-2 Wednesday Clark got his second goal of Sundin scored his fifth goal of Blackhawks made it 1-1 in the 
The Rangers have just 18 night, extending the Capitals' the night with Tampa Bay the season 3:30 later when he third period after Amonte goals in 12 games this season winless streak to five games. skating 5-on-3 early in the scored off a rebound from Igor retrieved his own rebound off -second worst in the league Daren Puppa made 34 saves third period. His shot from the Korolev's shot. the side of the net, and lifted to the Washington Capitals, for the Lightning, which fin­left side struck the puck over Sean Burke for who have 16 in10 games. The ished a four-game road trip 2-Olaf Kolzig and rolled over Panthers 2 Blackhawks 1 his seventh goal of the season. Rangers' scoring problems 2-0. It was the first Southeast the goalie as he slid to block it. Following a scoreless first have sparked rumors about a Division victory for Tampa Langkow had an empty-net Bill Lindsay intercepted a period, the Panthers, who have trade for a scorer. Bay, which had been 0-2-1 goal with seven seconds left. blind clearing pass and beat the 26th-ranked power play at 
New York is 3-2-3 in its last against division opponents. goaltender Mark Fitzpatrick home, finally clicked when the 
eight games after losing for Joe Juneau had a goal and Maple Leafs 3 Avalanche 0 with 2:16 left to give the 38-year-old Ciccarelli pounced 
the second straight night. The an assist for the Capitals, who Florida Panthers a 2-1 victory on a rebound of Niedermayer's 
Canadiens, who have are 0-3-2 in their last five Curtis Joseph got his first over Chicago, the Blackhawks' wrist shot and stuffed it in for 
outscored the Rangers 11-2 in games. Washington is 3-5-3 shutout of the season and first fourth straight defeat. a 1-0 lead at 6:54 of the sec­
their two games this season, overall, the first time in coach regular-season victory over With the two-referee system ond period. Ray Whitney and 
stopped a four-game winless Ron Wilson's 93-game tenure Colorado as the Toronto Maple in use, there were six roughing Niedermayer notched assists. 
streak (0-3-1). that the team has slumped two Leafs beat the Avalanche 3-0 penalties and two fights with Ciccarelli has 50 goals and 99 
Corson gave the Canadiens a games under .500. Wednesday night. five unsportsmanlike conduct career points against Chicago. 
1-0 lead at 3:41 of the first Andrei Nazarov, Steve Kelly Steve Sullivan, Mats Sundin penalties called, including a Florida was 1-for-24 on 
when his shot from the right and Daymond Langkow also and Steve Thomas scored for near brawl after the game power-play opportunities at 
circle glanced into the net off scored for the Lightning. the Maple Leafs, who ended a ·ended. Chris Chelios was home before Ciccarelli's goal. 
goaltender Mike Richter, who Brian Bellows scored for three-game losing streak. involved in four tussles, The Panthers and 
had come out high and only Washington, and Adam Oates Joseph, who played for St. including one with Rob Blackhawks completed their 
got a piece of the puck. got his BOOth career assist. Louis and Edmonton before Niedermayer at the end of the two-game season series just 
The Rangers tied it at 7:36 The Lightning took a 1-0 signing with Toronto in the off­game. three weeks into the season. 
on MacLean's shot from the lead when Clark scored his season, stopped 24 shots for Chicago's Tony Amonte Florida defeated Chicago 7-3 
left side that was nudged over seventh goal of the season on a his 20th career shutout. He scored a third-period goal, his Friday as rookie Mark Parrish 
the goal line by goaltender wrist shot from between the had been 0-11-1 against the seventh, to forge a 1-1 tie at scored a franchise-high four 
Jose Theodore's stick after he circles with 1:05 left in the Avalanche in the regular sea­6:09 of the third. goals. In that one, Fitzpatrick 
got tangled up with the first period. son. With Scott Mellanby and was pulled after giving up 
Rangers' Kevin Stevens. Bellows and Nazarov traded The Maple Leafs scored all Blackhawks defenseman Eric three goals in the first period. 
With the Canadiens on a goals in a 1:20 span early in their goals in the second peri­Weinrich battling for the puck The Blackhawks, who are 
power play, Recchi beat a the second period. Bellows got od to beat Colorado in Toronto behind Chicago's net, Weinrich ranked last in the NJIL in road 
screened Richter from the his first goal of the season off for the first time since Jan. 6, blindly backhanded a clearing power plays, went 0-for-6 
right side at 9:33 to put a pass from Juneau at 1:07, 1996. pass which Linday intercepted Wednesday and are now 0-for-
Montreal up 2-1. but Nazarov responded with a Patrick Roy made 25 saves at the left face off circle. His 16 this season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining. Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Snow tires and 4-wheel drive. $200 532, 534 S. CARROLL; 7 BED 61 6-684-3339 AM 232-2378 THE COPY SHOP 
plus gas Insurance required 1016 S. BEND AVE; 7 BED PM 288-2726 LaFortune Student Center 
NOTICES -1 Shawn at 271-8250 820 S. BEND AVE; 5 BED Beautiful brass bed,queen size,with 
630 ST. PETER; 5 BED orthopedic mattress set and deluxe 2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by 
Early Spring Break 606 ST. PETER; 5 BED frame.New.never used,still in plas­11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323 
Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6 610 ST. PETER; 5 BED tic.$225 x47091v msg THREE TALL WOMEN 
Days $279!1ncludes most meals! SPRINGBREAK 1718 E. WASHINGTON;2 BED 219-862-20ey2 By Edward Albee 
Awesome Florida,Texas,Cancun,Mexico,Jama 602 NO AVE; 5 BED Always buying and selling N D Directed By Elaine Bonifield 
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From ica,etc. 1082 WOODWARD; 2 BED 1 BLK. So. of N.D. football tickets. 289-8048 ADMISSION IS FREE 
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Browse www.icpt.com and call 800-ADDITIONAL HOMES AVAILABLE; ALL BRICK RANCH Fri. & Sat. at 7:30p.m. 
Air.Hotei.Meals &Parties 327-6013.Best hotels,pprices and ADDRESSES GIVEN UPON 728'PEASHWAY Parents coming to town and I need in the Lab Theatre -Washington 
$339!Panama City Room With parties.Reps,organizations, and REQUEST 3 BED ROOMS-2 FULL BATHS 2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4-4896. Hall 
Kitchen,? Free Parties promoters wanted. Inter-Campus 2 FIREPLACES-2 CAR GARAGE 
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen Programs THESE HOMES ARE AVAILABLE FINISHED BASEMENT NEED 4 LSU GA TIX. BEBE­
$149!springbreaktravel.com FOR THE 1999-2000 SCHOOL PHONE 272-2252 CALL 257-1141. 
1-800-678-6386 CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­YEAR I'VE ENJOYED OUR 4 YEARS 
Workers earn up to $2000+/month 3 PHISH tix. $28 ea. Need LSU Tickets. call x4879 TOGETHER. 
Four Flags Antique Mall Holiday (w/tips & benefits). World CALL KRAMER@ 674-2571; 233-Grand Rapids, MI. Nov. 11 I LOOK FORWARD TO MANY 
Open House Travei!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000-4509;0R CELL 276-7020 call4-2213 NEED 2 LSU TIXI!I MORE. 
Nov. 14th & 15th $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517-call kev 0673 
Prizes Refreshments Special 336-4235 LOVE, 
Sales Ext.C55841 FOR SALE CHUB 
218 S. 2nd St. 1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR 2 NO vs NAVY Tickets PERSONAL 
Downtown Niles Ml CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­·cHEAP• ERNIE­WANTED: TIES.272-6551 call634-2851 FAX IT FAST!!! DID YOU KNOW THAT YOU'RE OFFICIALS FOR INTERHALL Sending & Receiving MY BEST FRIEND?
ILOST & FOUND I 

BASKETBALL. IF INTERESTED 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. at
TICKETS

CONTACT AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272-THE COPY SHOP BERT­LOST: GOLD RING BETWEEN DeMOND THOMAS AT 6306 LaFortune Student Center YOU ARE THE BEST. LIVING SIEGFRIED AND BOND HALL 631-3536 OR REC SPORTS. I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 WITH YOU IS THE BEST EXPERI­BEFORE BREAK. MICHAEL @ 4-Roomate Needed,College Park, GAMES.272-6306 FAX IT FAST!! I ENCE OF MY LIFE .. 4862 Holiday Banquet servers needed Second Semester 
please apply in person. Call243-1115 TICKETMART Inc Retired nurse will babysit. DEAR SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE: 222 S. Michigan street. BUY-SELL-TRADE $3/hr. Own car, refs. BUY YOURSELF SOME NYOUILL, 
WANTED 

234-5200 4,5,or 6 in your group? I have the Notre Dame Football Tickets 289-0332. IT JUST MIGHT HELP. 258-1111
I I
FOR RENT houses for you-call Greg 233-9947 
SPRING BREAK '99! No student tickets please "Don't Get Burned on Spring I USED TO KNOW A BIRD NAMED Cancun•Nassau· Jamaica•Mazatlan Break" LITTLE BIRD. HE WAS A LOT 
•Acapulco·Bahamas Spring Break Packages are going SMALLER THAN BIG BIRD. BIG Cruise•Fiorida•south Padre ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOR SALE fast. Check out our Hot Jamaica BIRD WAS VERY TALL. LITTLE
I FOR SALE 
Travel Free and make lots of ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE · FOOTBALL TICKETS Packages for the Class of '99!Stop BIRD WAS VERY SMALL. 
Cash!Top reps are offered full-time TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. PREPAID PHONE CARDS 271-9412 in at Anthony Travel in the staff jobs. Lowest price 198 MIN. $20 LaFortune Student Center and ELWOOD­Guaranteed.Call now for details! THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and CALL 258-4805 WANTED check out the best Spring Break GET THE CAR. WE'RE GONNA www.classtravel.com Breakfast Inn has space available NO FOOTBALL TICKETS vacations around.Get your deposit PLAY THE BLUES!!!! 
800/838-6411 for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! 271-1526 in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a with private baths,$80-Bed box set. not available in chance with an unknown agency or WHEN ONE WALKS DOWN THE SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! $115,Middlebury,30 miles from U.S. call pete at 251·0178. NO Ftbl. tix some 1-800 number.Limited space YELLOW BRICK ROAD, THEY Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,& campus. BUY-SELL available,so book now! SET FORTH WITH DREAMS OF 
-· S.Padre.14 Free Meals+ 34 hrs. Toll Road. Exit #107 PHONECARDS!$20 BUYS MINS. 674-7645 Anthony Travel, Inc. HEARTS, BRAINS, AND SOULS. Free Parties.America's best prices 1-800-418-9487 USA282, LaFortune Student Center ~OES THE YELLOW BRICK & packages. Campus sales reps CANADA237, ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and 631-7080 ROAD LEAD TO A CEMETARY? wanted Earn free trips + cash BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­HONG KONG 1 00, Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 1.800.SURFS.UP rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153. IRELAND 155, 674-7645 ITS A BEAUTIFUL DAY IN THE www.studentexpress.com FRANCE 135, Looking for a unique gift? NEIGHBORHOOD. A BEAUTIFUL 
HOUSES FOR RENT GERMANY 135, NO Football Tickets Needed. DAY FOR A NIEGHBOR. WON'T DOMUS PROPERTIES MEXICO 94, AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures YOU BE MINE? WON'T YOU BE 
Driver Needed PUERTO RICO 237, and we'll create a custom color cal­MINE? WION'T YOU BE MY From NO to anywhere in 614 S. ST JOE; 9 BED/4 BATH UNITED KINGDOM 315. NO FOOTBALL TIX endar. NEIGHBOR ... Oregon/Washington after finals. 518 S. ST JOE; 8 BED/2 BATH For orders/ info, call FOR SALE 
Thursday, November 5, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
student union 
HAPPENINti§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Something About Mary. 11/05. Thursday. 11/06. Friday. 11/07. Saturday. 
Acousticafe. 11/05. Thursday. 
Video Dance Party. 11/04. Friday. 
First Fridays with OMSA. 11/04. Friday. 
3rd Eye Blind & EVE6. 11/11. Wednesday. 
Cushing Auditorium. Cushing Auditorium. Cushing Auditorium. 
Lafortune Huddle. Stepan. Lafortune ND Room. Stepan. 
HPC (HALL PRE!iiDENT!i' COUNCIL} 
Formals for Friday, 11/06: Lyons Hall Mara Fox Fun Run. 11 /07. Saturday. Formals for Saturday, 11 /07: 
*Howard/Sarin (at Senior Bar). *PW. 
1030PM. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 
0900PM-1200AM. 1OOOPM-0130AM. 1200PM-0130PM. 0800PM. 
0900AM. 

*Cavanaugh/Keenan (at College Football Hall of Fame). 
*Lewis. 

CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL} 
BSU Meeting. 11/08. Sunday. esc. 
Mu Alpha Theta (Guest speaker Logician, Professor Julia Knight). 11/09. Monday. 226 CCMB. 
Pre-Laww Society: Meeting & speaker on networking and alumni relations. 
11/09. Monday. 

Education Club General Meeting. 11/09. Monday. 
Veteran Women Boxers: Meeting. 11/10. Tuesday. 
CLASS OF i!!OOO 
Taco Bell Class Dinner. 11/11. Wednesday. 
CLASS OF i!!OOI 
Karoke Night. 11/05. Thursday. 
Sophomore Showcase Talent Show Tryouts. 11/08. Sunday. 
Blood Drive. 11/1 0-11 /11. Tues-Wednesday. 
138 DBRT. 239 Madeleva (SMC). Boxing Room. 
Reekers. 
Walsh Hall. Lafun Ballroom. 
STUDENT liOIIERNMENT 
Academic Pride Week Faculty-Student Lunch (cont). 11/05. Thrusday. Hospitality Room of SOH. 
Academic Pride Week Faculty-Student Lunch (cont). 11/06. Friday. Hospitality Room of SDH. 
MI§CELLANEOU§ICAMPU!i-WIDE 
Dept of Music: ND Symphony Orchestra Fall Concert. 
11/05. Thursday. Dept of Music: Mozartean Players. 
11/08.  Sunday.  
Happy Veteran's Day!  
11/11.  Wednesday.  

Dept of Music: NO Chorale Fall Concert. 11/11. Wednesday. 
Washington Hall. Annenberg Auditorium. 
Basilica. 
0300PM-0400PM. 
DART Info Mtg. General Mtg & Speaker. 0700PM. 0530PM. 0700PM. 
0800PM-11 OOPM. 
0200PM-0600PM. 0900AM-0330PM. 
1200PM-01 OOPM. 
1200PM-01 OOPM. 
0800PM. 0200PM. 
0800PM. 

Tickets: $2. 
Free. Free. 

$10 in advance, $12 day of. Includes long-sleeved T & breakfast. 
0530PM-0700PM. 0700PM. 
Re: fall fundraiser, yearbook photos, spring season. 
Dollar off food for sophomores. Cupon in newsletter. Selling class T-shirt 
Interested? call Todd Callais@ 4-4364. 
Sign up in dorm. 
Eat With Your College: Today=First Year of Studies. 
Eat With Your College: Today=College of Science, Engineering & Architecture. 
$3.00-$1 0.00. 
#$%"&*! @#-$%"&*-! @#$%"&*-! @#$%"&*+-! @#$%"&*-! @#$%"&*--! @#$%"&&*(! @#%+=! @#%"&*-! @"&+#%@+=!23#!&$#=! @# 
• NFL 
Green considers retirement 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 

The Washington Redskins' depressing season has taken its toll on the team's living legend. Usually a beacon of insatiable optimism, Darrell Green is thinking about the end. 
'This is the first year I've ever really thought about retiring," the 38-year-old Green, the old­est player ever to start at cor­nerback in the NFL, said Wednesday. 'Tm not saying I'm going to retire. I don't know when that'll happen." 
Hearing such words from Green brings a sobering reality to the Redskins' 1-7 record. The 16-year veteran is still lightning fast and is having another great season -the only starter who can say that -and could be headed toward his eighth Pro Bowl. When the team was 0-6, he talked in typical Green fash­ion about finishing 10-6. But, as 0-7 approached in the second half of a 41-7 loss to Minnesota, he was in tears. 
"It does get kind of tough when you're losing over and over and over," Green said. ''I'm a human being. I know a lot of people think I'm Superman. This is me. I don't have a cape. You do really start to contem­plate (retirement) because it wears on you, because you're human. It wears on you mental­ly. It really hasn't worn on me physically -I can still run and cover and all that stuff -but it does start to wear down on you." 
Green is serious as he speaks, but not somber. Somber isn't his game. After all, this is a man who signed an improbable five­year contract at the age of 37, then showed up with his family at the press conference wearing T-shirts that proclaimed: "Darrell Green, Pro Bowl 2000." 
This is a man who drove six­hour round trips to Lawrenceville, Va., during the spring to finish the credits he needed to get his long-overdue college diploma. Why? Because, for all these years, he's had a nagging feeling of hypocrisy for preaching the value of educa­tion to young kids while his own schooling remained incomplete. 
And this is a man who arrived home Friday night from a chari­ty event at the Ronald McDonald House, found his 9­year-old son violently ill, took him to the hospital and stayed up all night with him -yet still showed up Saturday morning for team meetings and practice. This was the same practice Michael Westbrook missed, claiming sickness, resulting in a one-game benching for the receiver and a $4,000 fine. 
"He definitely means a lot emotionally to this team," guard Joe Patton said. "You know you're going to be able to fight with Darrell Green. He's the oldest guy on this team, and he's still doing his thing. He's sacrificing his body, which is not much of a body. He's a leader, in every way possible." 
During the losing streak, accusations of players giving up on the field were rife at Redskin Park. Green says his brain can't even begin to register that pos­sibility. Asked why the Redskins have been disappointing, he searches for answers, at one point bemoaning the behavior of younger players who may have received too much, too soon. 
"The ability or the inability to manage your own personal life can affect you as far as being a part of a team," Green said. "It can carry over. As much as this is a game, it's also a business, and it takes a strong mental and physical commitment. ... Here you have more of a young team, with less reins on their own lives, and I think that can start to affect a player on the field." 
Green is almost old enough to be the father of some of his teammates, creating a genera­tion gap that can be tough to bridge as a leader. All he can do is keep being Darrell Green and hope it rubs off. 
"I think the thing that makes it easier for me is that whether we're winning or losing, my objective has never changed," Green said. 

Flutie named Bills' starting QB 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

Doug Flutie has the job -he is the starting quarterback of the Buffalo Bills. 
"I know the question; the answer is Doug Flutie," Bills coach Wade Phillips said today. 
He added that injured Rob Johnson is now the No. 2 quar­terback. 
"Rob will be working his way back as the backup, and that's where we are," Phillips said. 
Phillips said Flutie's perfor­mance coupled with Johnson's absence made the decision easy. 
The Bills appointed Johnson the starter last winter even before he signed a $25 million, 5-year contract. Flutie earns around $250,000 a year, the NFL minimum. 
Flutie, the top-rated passer in the AFC and second in the league to Minnesota's Randall Cunningham, has played since Johnson was injured against the Colts on Oct. 11. The Bills have won five games in a row, including a 26-21 victory over the 49ers engineered by 
./ Used, rare and 
out-of-print books 
Initial cost of $2.00 
Nationally -circulated ad 
Success rate of 5C1'/o 
Time required: 2 months 

ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six • Tuesday through Sunday • 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Johnson on Oct. 4. 

Phillips said he explained the situation to both quarterbacks and Johnson was handling it well. 
"He has showed a lot of maturity that I wasn't sure he had," Phillips said. 
Flutie, who led a fourth­quarter comeback against 
Miami last week, faces the New York Jets on Sunday. 
"He's playing extremely well," Jets coach Bill Parcells said. "He certainly has a very good track record over the years, and he's very unique. He's creative and I think he appears to have a very good mind for the game." 
.BR411 14GLI F4J4IL~ BILLB04RDI 


Thursday, November 5, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Alliance for Catholic Education 
TIRED OF GETTING HOMEWORK? 
THEN GIVE SOME! 
Be ateacher and experience: 
•
Master-level Teacher Preparation 

•
Community Life 

•
SpiritualDevelopment 


Informational meetin[: 
Thursday, November 12th, 7:00 pm in the Hesbur[h Library Auditorium. Any Uuestions? Call the ACE Office at 631-7052. 
~

.,....,..N"""-"1 




The Observer/John Daily Benny Guilbeaux is the most experienced member of the talented Irish secondary, having led the team in interceptions the last two seasons. 
page 18 

ABL to benefit from NBA work stoppage 
Associated Press 
The NBA lockout may be the ABL's luckout. 
Who needs Mike when there's four-time Olympian Teresa Edwards, quadruple-double artist Debbie Black and slam­dunking Sylvia Crawley? 
The ABL opens its third season Thursday when the Philadelphia Rage play at the New England Blizzard. On Friday, Scottie Pippen will be on the court in Chicago, but only to help tip off two new ABL franchises -the Nashville Noise and Chicago Condors. 
NBA players have been prac­ticing with the Condors, the lat­est addition to the nine-team league. With NBA games wiped out for November, Edwards hopes basketball fans turn their attention to the women. 
"That's a unique opportunity for us, not worrying about the competition of the Philadelphia '76ers," said Edwards of the Philadelphia Rage. "I think we're definitely going to take advantage of the lockout as we should in every city." 
Gary Cavalli, the league's co­founder, is negotiating with Fox Sports Net to increase ABL cov­erage during the lockout. The cable network carries NBA regional games in six of nine ABL cities -Chicago, Seattle, Portland, Philadelphia, Denver and the Bay area. 
The league needs the addition­al exposure. Only 14 of 44 games are scheduled to be tele­vised on Fox Sports Net and two on CBS, half as many as last sea­son. The rival WNBA, which plays 30 games during the sum­mer, has contracts with NBC, ESPN and Lifetime. 
Despite the loss of Rage guard Dawn Staley to the WNBA and fewer top college recruits, sea­son ticket sales are up 30 per­cent from last year when the league averaged 4,300 fans a game, Cavalli said. 
The increase most likely stems from franchises in Chicago and Nashville. They replaced teams in Long Beach and Atlanta that folded because of poor atten­dance. 
The Condors will play in the 7 ,800-seat University of Illinois­Chicago Pavilion. 
"It's been very positive," said Chicago coach Jim Cleamons, a Bulls assistant from 1989-96. "People are saying, 'I've got a daughter, a niece, and we're going to give you support."' 
Cleamons brought in former and current Bulls players, including Randy Brown, to scrimmage and teach the trian­gle offense. 
Joining a recent scrimmage were the Mavericks' Michael Finley, the Celtics' Antoine Walker and the Raptors' Charles Oakley. 
The 6-foot-2 Brown went up against 6-4 Yolanda Griffith, runner-up for the league MVP on the Long Beach StingRays last season. 
"It's a unique experience play­ing against that type of quick­ness," Cleamons said. "They are literally just toying with us. But we've improved because of play­ing against that caliber of com­petition." 
Michael Jordan hasn"t showed, but he's "very supportive of what we're doing and trying to do," Cleamons said. 
The Nashville Noise, coached by Candi Harvey, will compete for the sports dollar with other pro franchises making their debuts in the state -the Tennessee Oilers (NFL) and Nashville Predators (NHL). Home state favorite Michelle Marciniak, Georgia staf Saudia Roundtree and Olympian Venus Lacy are familiar names in Tennessee. 
"This is basketball country," 
'THAT'S A UNIQUE 

OPPORTUNITY FOR 
US, NOT WORRYING ABOUT 
THE COMPETITION OF THE 
PHILADELPHIA '76ERS ' 
TERESA EDWARDS RAGE PLAYER 
Harvey said. "Tennessee is the home of the best girls and women's basketball in the United States. We're think there's already a national frenzy for what we're doing." 
Just to be sure, the league has stepped up its advertising, with a $2 million increase in the mar­keting budget. The $5 million total budget is still roughly one­third the marketing muscle of the WNBA. 
One commercial will feature Black of the Colorado Xplosion, a 5-3 guard who is one of five pro players to achieve a quadru­ple double. The others are Hakeem Olajuwon, David Robinson, Nate Thurmond and Alvin Robertson. 
On the court, two-time cham­pion Columbus remains the team to beat. That's even with­out Valerie Still, the two-time championship MVP who recently had knee surgery and probably will miss the season. Versatile scorer and rebounder Katie Smith will take on more of the offensive load. 
"Columbus is a very aggres­sive, athletic team," said New England star Jennifer Rizzotti, who recently signed a three-year contract extension. "Every posi­tion is more athletic than almost every team they play against." 
But it opens the door for Portland, which returns league MVP Natalie Williams and Crawley, who won the 1998 slam-dunk title with a blindfold­ed dunk at the all-star game. 
So why don't players dunk in a game? 
"They have to create a comfort zone up there in the air, not only the ones that are going up, but the ones who are beneath them," Edwards said. "But I think Sylvia will probably feel comfortable enough to try it this season." 
If not, there's always next season. That's when the league expects to nearly break even and add another team. Cavalli said the candidates are New York-New Jersey, Dallas, St. Louis, Kansas City and Baltimore. 


The Observer· SPORTS 
Secondary 
continued from page 24 
With Autry Denson solidified at the tailback position, coach Bob Davie decided to move the 6-foot-3, 210-pound Driver to the defensive side of the ball in order to give him some playing time. 
He started the year as a free safety, but an injury to senior Benny Guilbeaux shifted Driver to strong safety and he has lived up to that challenge. Driver has recorded 40 tackles and two interceptions thus far this year and credits the older, more experienced players with helping him ease into his new role. 
"Watching Benny [Guilbeaux], A'Jani [Sanders], Deveron Harper and Brock Williams, they know how to do the backpedaling, the rotation of the hips ... hopefully I'm improving as we go," said Driver. 
Guilbeaux suffered an MCL injury against Michigan State which sidelined him for three games, but he returned in style with seven tackles last week against Baylor. This is his third year as a regular strong safety and he led the team in interceptions the past two seasons. He is excited to be back and shows a lot of respect for his fellow defen­sive backs. 
"It's fun to be back with the fellas. Last game, I was pretty hyped, I was flying around, everyone was making plays, so it felt great to be back," Guilbeaux said. 
"With them[the secondary], with all of us in the game, it's real fun being back there because it's a comfortable feeling, we're all pretty much familiar with all the defenses," he continued. "It's a joy play­ing with the rest of the fellas." 
He has been instrumental in helping out the younger play­ers on the team, especially his fellow strong safety Driver. 
"Tony's a good athlete. My position, strong safety is not the easiest position to learn as far as the adjustments and everything<None> but he's adapted quite well," Guilbeaux said. "I was helping him before I suffered the injury, through the injury and I'm also helping him now so he's proven to be a good DB." 
Coach McMahon feels fortu­nate to have two top caliber players at the strong safety position and feels as if each 
Thursday, November 5, 1998 

brings a special dimension to both the defense as well as special teams. 
"Both of them are on all the special teams -they play a lot of snaps. It's a good situa­tion to have those two guys who I consider starters be able to split the game as a defensive back," said McMahon. "They get the snaps and share the snaps and that gives us a chance to move them into special team situa­tions and not have them gassed all the time. Its been positive." 
The free safety position has been solid all year as well, with senior Sanders and junior Deke Cooper sharing time. 
Sanders is currently fifth on the team in tackles with 40, including a 25-yard intercep­tion return for a touchdown last month against Arizona State. Like Guilbeaux, he has been a three-year contributor in the secondary and has been valuable in a leadership role. 
Cooper has started five of the last six games and is sec­ond on the team in tackles. He started his career at wide receiver before me, they kinda spoon-fed me the defense when I first came over my freshman year so its working out for the best right now," said Cooper. 
He said he believes the defense has been effective all year and feels confident in his team's future. 
"I feel real good about things, especially the defense," Cooper said. "They say that offense wins games and defense wins champi­onships, so the way we're going right now, we're looking pretty good." 
While much of the talk has been about the rest of the sea­son and possible Rose Bowl appearance on the horizon, McMahon has not overlooked this week's game against Boston College. 
"We have our hands full with Boston College right now, that's as far as we need to look," said McMahon. "It's a situation where they're a very excellent offense with great statistics. It'll be up to our guys to focus and be able to control and hopefully play a good game." 
& 99¢ Cover 
with Student I.D. 

~~· 
222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND 
(2 19) 2 3 4-520 0 www.aceplaces.com/heartland 
switching to defense early in the 1996 season. He feels grateful to the older players who helped him in his transition. 
"A' Jan i, Benny they've always been e for 

The Observer is looldng for some­one who is sl~illed at programming and scripting for the Mac to assist in the development of the Observer's website. This is a paid 
position. 
If interested please contact Jenn at 271-9145, or leave a note in the Web Administrator mailbox at the Observer Offices (basement of South Dining Hall) 
CLASS OF 1999... 

Reasons 
to Head to Heartland for 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
,.HURSDAYS 
CTHIRI) EYf 

,B.............,
.YiQ~ 
. <ilSlVIITH·-,.1%$.u#"' 
concert ticket 

·. NQ giveaways 
OBOSTON 
COIJXGE 
FANS ON PRErviiSES 
tD99¢Specials 


Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Brad Hardin and the Irish men's golf team failed to three-peat at the Big East Championship at TPC Avenel in Bethesda, Maryl~nd. Hardin, who was the Big East runner-up 1n 1996, struggled, sconng four con­secutive holes over par down the stretch to finish in a disappointing tie for 13th. 
'f>tudent 
Tenni& C-\iniG 
Monday, November 16 

6:00 PM -7:30 PM ~~~~~= Eck Tennis Pavilion 

Stroke Analysis 
& 

Playing Situations r r-~;::,~r• "'~d By: Men's &Women's Varsity Tennis Teams 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet 
r.·

Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Open to All Notre Dame Students 
The Ford Motor Company 

Presents 
FORD DAY 
at the University ofNotre Dame 

Tuesday, November 10, 1998 
Featuring Keynote Speaker 
JOHN KAPLAN 

Executive Vice President, Ford Motor Land Services Corporation 
JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
College dfBusiness Administration 
1: 1.5  -1:45pm  Ford Overview by John Kaplan  
1 :45 -2:15pm  Questions & Answers  
2:30p.m.  Ford Representatives will be available  
for informational discussions  

All students encouraged to attend! 

The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• MEN's GOLF 
-

Team falls to Hoyas in finals 
Special to the Observer sfroke average-struggled to 
BETHESDA, Md. 
The University of Notre Dame men's golf team strug­gled over its final few holes to slip three strokes behind the host school Georgetown in Sunday's Big East Conference championship final-round action, at the par-71, 6,416­yard TPC Avenel Course. 
Georgetown entered the day with a nine-stroke cushion on three-time defending Big East champion Notre Dame but the Irish quickly erased the deficit thanks to a strong front nine. But poor finishes by Notre Dame's top-two golfers left the Irish with a 617 total {312­
305) and in a tie with St. John's {313-304) behind the host Hoyas (303-311). 
The last three Big East championships held at TPC Avenel have been decided by five shots or fewer, with the Irish claiming a five-shot win over Connecticut in 1995 {593­
598) and a one-shot victory over Georgetown in '96 {595­596). 
Notre Dame senior Willie Kent finished the fall season with one of his strongest show­ings, using a final-round 70 to rally from a share of ninth place to a runner-up finish. Kent's 148 total was well behind medalist Andrea Huber of Georgetown {69-72), who matched the tournament record for low 36-hole score 
(141) that was set by Notre Dame's Todd Vernon last year at South Bend's Blackthorn Golf Club. 
Seton Hall's Scott Hawley (74-77) edged Notre Dame freshman Kyle Monfort (75-77) by one stroke for third-place honors. Monfort-who impres­sively led the Irish during five fall tournaments with a 74.77 
the finish as a member of the final group, posting a double­bogey and then two bogeys over the final three holes. 
Notre Dame's second-leading golfer this fall, senior co-cap­tain Brad Hardin, also strug­gled down the stretch in the second-to-last group, resulting in his round of 81 not counting to the play-five/count-four score. Hardin-who was the Big East runner-up at TPC Avenel in 1996 {70-7 4)-had turned in a 77 in Saturday's first round but finished bogey-bogey-dou­ble bogey-bogey over his final four holes on Sunday for a 158 total and a share of 13th. 
Irish junior Jeff Connell improved five shots from his opening round (83-78) while Vernon concluded his frustrat­ing fall with a final round of 80, giving the Irish junior co­captain a 162 tournament total. 
Monfort counted to the team score in 10 of 13 rounds dur­ing the fall while pacing the team in stroke average (74.77), with Kent totaling just three more shots than Monfort dur­ing the fall {972-975) for an even 75.00 average. The best fall of Hardin's four-year career yielded a 75.39 stroke average while Connell aver­aged 76.00 strokes during the fall of '98 (compared to his 
74.14 average last spring). 
Vernon's baffling 77.00 fall stroke average is nearly 2.5 strokes higher than his team­leading 74.59 average during the 1997-98 season. 
Kent counted to the team 

score in 12 of 13 fall rounds, followed by Hardin and Connell with 11 each, Monfort with 10 and Vernon with eight. Since transferring to Notre Dame from Saint Louis University prior to the 1998 spring semester, Kent has posted six top-15 finishes in 1 0 tournaments, including a fourth-place showing, two run­ner-up finishes and medalist honors at this fall's Iowa Intercollegiate. 
As a team, Notre Dame com­pleted the fall with an average four-man score of 298.85 
(74.41 per counted score), besting the 1997 fall team average (301.39) by 2.54 strokes but trailing the overall 1997-98 average (298.33). 
After averaging 74.07 strokes per round last spring and 75.00 this fall, Kent will head into the 1999 spring sea­son with a 74.52 career stroke average at Notre Dame ­which would trail only Charles Thurn (74.43, 1956-58) in recorded Notre Dame golf his­tory (since 1954). Kent has counted to the team score in 25 of 27 rounds with the Irish. 
Vernon heads into the spring with a solid 75.75 career aver­age (which still would rank fourth in Irish history) and had counted in 40 of 44 rounds prior to the fall of '98 (now 48 of 57 overall). Connell's fall dropped his career average from 76.27 to 76.20 while Hardin's strong fall lowered his career average from 77.46 to 77.06. Connell has counted in 40 of 46 career rounds, Hardin in 50 of 68. 


EN'S GOLF BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP RESULTS 


1. 
GEORGETOWN 6. RUTGERS 2>'N0TRE DAME 7. BOSTON COLLEGE 

2. 
ST. JOHN'S 8. VILLANOVA 


4. 
SETON HALL 9. PROVIDENCE 

5. 
CONNECTICUT 



Jlt BASKETBALL 
• 
., 
., 
., 
., 
., 

Attention Students: 
Get your basketball season tickets and ND vs. IU tickets at the following locations-
Nov. 4-South Dining Hall Nov. 5-North Dining Hall Nov. 6-South Dining Hall 
(lO:OOam-2:00pm) 
Season Tickets-Only $44 ND vs. IU-$8 Must show your student ID. 
page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 5, 1998 
-
CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
_C_al_e_nd_a_r_o_f_E_ve_n_t_s_____ Exposition of the <" lessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until ;Uesday, 10:00pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fish Wall Fridays, 12 noon until 5 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica ofthe red Heart 
Freshman R (November ......~-......., 
Monday, Deadline: 103 Hesburgh Libra .• see your Rector 
Targeted Dorms: Keenan, Keought St. Edward's and 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, November-.10, 7:00.8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Part 6 of a Seven;.Part Series on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: U d t d. · b ·p f 
n ers an lng Yi:' ro essor John Cavadini Wednesday, Novembel'fl, 7:00 pffl~ Log Chapel THIRTY..SECOND SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
'""W~e-e-;-k­
8-n-.d-.P;-r-e~sl...-:dre-rs--------~­
at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, November 7 Mass 
5:00p.m. E D 1 s J
Rev. Bnan · . · a ey, .. 
Sunday, November 8 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. James B. King, C.S.C. 11;45 a.m. ·J M L' C S C 
Rev. ames . 1es, . . . 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday· 
1st Reading 2 Maccabees 7:1-2,.9~14. ;:,:Hk:·:·,:':· :J::::wt:::::.. _::J;::~:ih~iiO!=i!l:tW::);\'r:::::=:}".i:t:::?ttr::;mif~t:\:?::, .. · · 

2nd Reading 
Gospel">
::.;:.· 

Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Chastity but Were Afraid to Ask 
CJ

Jim Lies, c.s.c. 
I went to lunch a while back with two Notre Dame seniors. It's difficult to explain just how our conversation came around to such topics as sexuality, 
a 

but eventually it was established that both of the young men were virgins-by choice. I wish that fact, and the fact that I've recounted it here, wasn't so alarm­ing to the average college student. I'm embarrassed to say that I was actually surprised by their willingness to share such an intimate detail, especially in a ~ culture which appears to marginalize· anyone who would make such a commit­ment, and certainly anyone who would proudly proclaim it. Even as such a 
VJ 

choice and such honesty are remarkably refreshing, I don't feel comfortable using even their first names here for fear that they might come to be known and thought fools for such a choice in our time. The claim that "The names have ~ been changed to protect the innocent," has never meant so much. Both that they are innocent and that, in our time, they need to be protected. 
b

Even as I am quite sure there is a silent substantial minority, if not major­ity at Notre Dame who live chaste lives, whether by choice or not, theirs are not the stories we hear. For some reason, it is not the least bit fashionable, or hip, or cool, or trendy, or whatever the contemporary parlance would label it these ~ days, to talk about sex unless, of course, you're getting some. In what imagine­able context, afterall, would someone who chooses chastity have to brag about his or her latest exploits? What has created the culture in which we are sup­~ posed to be embarrassed for making morally relevant choices? How is it that we have come to a time when sex is portrayed as a virtual recreational activity for which the only moral criterion is mutual consent? I have no answers, and I ~ realize I risk offending many by even taking up the question,.but it's high time we stopped to reflect on the choices we've made, and will make, in this regard. 
There is much confusion these days about just what chastity is or why ~ one would choose it. It is all too often thought to imply repression. Sadly, we speak little of the merits of it, even as the choice of it would undoubtedly 
~ 

enhance the lives and happiness of all who would choose it. In an article in America, Mary Patricia Barth Fourqurean writes that "chastity means passionate love for God, others and ourselves, a three-fold love expressed in three different 
a

, ways," through marriage, vowed religious life, or the single life. Chastity does 
not necessarily imply celibacy. The chaste marriage is not sexless, but faithful. For vowed religious, celibate chastity frees us from the exclusive bond of mar­riage in order to be freer to serve God and others. For those who are not called ~ to religious life, and who are not yet married, chastity means "a temporary, non-genital commitment to this three-fold love of God, others and ourselves." The grace in the decision to be chaste is that one is freed from having to renego-VJ tiate the limits of sexual expression with every encounter and every relation­
•

ship, and that one is freed from having to play sexual games. Ultimately, what we probably most need to hear about chastity is that it • increases our own sincerity by assuring us that we will not say more with our 
•

bodies than we mean with our hearts. It does not rule out rich intimate rela­
tionships; it fosters them. Each and all of us long to be men and women of integrity, and to live lives which reflect that which we believe. 1n a world which seeks instant gratification, there is the real danger that we do not reflect enough about something so important. This is especially true when the worst choices we make in this regard are so often induced by alcohol. Some of the most painful conversations I have had as a rector and as a priest have had to do with the deep regret young men and women have after expressing themselves sexu­ally in a way that was not consistent with who they knew themselves to be, and 
whom they want so desperately to be again. 
It's time to rise to the challenge of living the lives that deep down we know we want. It's time to consider who we are and who we want to be. It's time to support others who would make the same choice, either to maintain their virginity or to reclaim their chastity. The choice for chastity is not about 
outdated traditions and strictures; it's about living life with integrity. Please don't enter into a sexual relationship because you can't think of a reason not to, or because "everybody else is doing it." Enter in because you love the other, 
db f h "V ,, · th t f 1·f · · 
an ecause a 11 o w o you are says 1.es. m e con ext o a 1 ehme commlt­ment. 
C. S. Lewis said it far better than I when he spoke to a group of college students at Oxford, "Indeed, if we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the Gospels, it would seem that our Lord finds our desires, not too strong, but too weak. We are half­hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the 0MPUS 
sea. We are far too easily pleased." MINISTRY 
,..._________ _..,._____________ 
Thursday, November 5, 1998 
--------~-~---------... 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
game," McGraw said. "Danielle players have progressed since and Sherisha collided during practice began. warmups and she's in the infir­"It was a good opportunity for mary right now with a concus­us," McGraw said. "It was a sion. Julie Henderson's achilles shame Sherisha couldn't playtendon flared up again and she though." told us before the game that she Mikaela Braf led Visby with 24 couldn't go." points, while Hanna BjorklundThe exhibition did give and Marie Soderberg each added McGraw a chance to see how her 13. 
Dec. 8 CONNECTICUT 

Women 
continued from page 24 
"Defensively, I think we have some weaknesses and that's what we need to work on," McGraw said. "There are a cou­ple things. Our transition defense I fnlt wa-; a problem. We let them come down and do what they wanted to do. Wo didn't pressure them nnough. Tho othnr problr,m was in our approach. W11 ran at them and got boat on th11 drivn. In defending the shooter, we didn't gnt our hands up to defr,nd the shot." 
McGraw had tlw first chanl'.f' In see one of her highly touted freshmen in action. Ericka Haney had 11 points on 4-of-1 0 shoot­ing. 
"Ericka did a nice job for us," McGraw said. "She's going to be a great player for us. She's got so many great skills. She runs the floor extremely well, she can drive the ball, and she can shoot the ball. She's a freshman right now. She's going to learn a lot of things on offense and defense, but I thought she played very well." 
Freshman Sherisha Hills and junior Julie Henderson, however, didn't see any action for the Irish. 
"This is the first time we ever lost two Ia ers before the 

Looking for a Well Paying Campus job? 


The Observer Advertising Department is currently hiring for Advertising Account Executives. Great RESUME BUILDER for all majors. FUN AND EXCITING WORK, opportunity to make GREAT MONEY. Sophomores and Freshmen in Business school are strongly encouraged to apply, but the position is open to all job seekers at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Stop by our office in 024 South Dining Hall with a resume, or call 1-6900 and ask for Bryan. 
2 p m, Sunday 11.8.98 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents guest artists 
The Mozartean Players 

Steven Lubin, fortepiano Stanley Ritchie, classical violin Myron Lutzke, classical cello 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
Tickets $10 General Admission $8 ND/SMC community with ID $6 Senior Citizen $3 Student 
Tickets available in advance at the LaFortune Box Office, or charge by phone (219) 631-8128. 

For more information, please call (219) 631-6201. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Veteran Boxing Meeting -There will be a mandatory informational meet­ing on Tuesday, Nov. 10 at 7 
p.m. in the boxing room, down­stairs in the Joyce Center. We will be preparing for the spring season and a fall fundraiser. Any questions please call Meghan McCurdy at 4-3769. 
One Day Table Tennis Tournament -All games will be played on Saturday, Nov. 7, 1998 at the RSRC between 11 
a.m. and 6 p.m. Sign-up at RecSports by Nov. 5 at 6 p.m. or call 1-6100 for more infor­mation. Space is limited. 
Fac/Staff/Family Tennis Clinic -Bring your own rac­quet to the Eck Tennis Pavilion for this free clinic presented by the Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis Teams. Stroke Analysis and Playing Situations bight­light this event from 6-7:30 ·­
p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 18. 
Don't forget your tennis shoes. No advance registra­
tion necessary. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more information. 
Student Tennis Clinic -Come join the Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis Team for Stroke Analysis and Playing Situations at this free clinic on Monday, Nov. 16, 6­
7:30 p.m. Bring your own racquet and tennis shoes to the Eck Tennis Pavilion. No advance registration required. For more information, call RecSports at 1­6100. 


.... _ 
.. 

---------~-~---------~ -...--~ ---~ ----------~----_.,__________________.,..,____ 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
MeGwire named Player of the Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Mark McGwire, whose historic home run chase captivated a nation and reinvigorated the sport, is The Associated Press Major League Baseball Player of the Year. 
McGwire beat out Sammy Sosa in the race to break Roger Maris' homer record and wound up hitting an impossible-to­imagine 70. 
The St. Louis star shattered the 37 -year-old mark of 61, a number that had become part of American history. And he did it with remarkable humility, pay­ing respect to Maris' family and Sosa throughout the pursuit and celebrating with his 10-year-old batboy son, Matt. 
-· "I still can't figure out how I hit 70," McGwire said during the World Series. "It's hard enough to hit 62; 70 was incredible." McGwire received 103 votes in balloting by AP newspaper and broadcast members released Wednesday. Sosa, who hit 66 homers for the Chicago Cubs, was second with 80 votes. Seven other players tied for third with one vote each -out­fielders Ken Griffey Jr. of Seattle, Albert Belle of the Chicago White Sox and Eric Davis of Baltimore; pitchers Roger Clemens of Toronto and Trevor Hoffman of San Diego; and shortstops Derek Jeter of the New York Yankees and Nomar Garciaparra of Boston. McGwire led the majors in slugging percentage (.752) and on-base percentage (.470), helped by an NL-record 162 walks. Playing his first full season in the NL. the Cardinals first base­man had 147 RBis, scored 130 runs and batted .299. Sosa led the majors with 158 RBis and 134 runs scored. The Cubs right fielder batted .308 
ADOPTION 
ABC'S, 1,2,3'S, AND CLIMBING TREES. CARING COUPLE IS 
SEEKING A BABY TO LOVE & CHERISH. LET US HELP YOU THROUGH THIS DIFFI­CULT TIME. EXPENSES PAID. 
Joan & Bill-1-800-311-7663 

• 
and also stole 18 bases. 
Despite McGwire's accom­plishments, the Cardinals fin­ished just 83-79, 19 games behind in the NL Central. Sosa helped the Cubs go 90-73 and win the wild-card spot in a tiebreaking game with San Francisco. 
Leading the Cubs into the play­offs may give Sosa an edge over McGwire in voting for the NL Most Valuable Player award, which the Baseball Writers' Association of America will announce on Nov. 19. 
"He had a better year than I did," McGwire said recently of Sosa, "because he went to the playoffs." 
Even with expectations high for big totals in this expansion season, McGwire managed to exceed them. 
He began his record run with a grand slam on opening day. On Sept. 8, with Sosa standing in right field at Busch Stadium, McGwire broke Maris' record with plenty of games to spare. 
Big Mac closed out his amaz­ing year with two home runs on the fmal day, including No. 70 on his last swing of the season. He turned 35 a few days later, on Oct. 1. 
"I've amazed myself that I've stayed in such a tunnel for so long throughout what I had to deal with as far as the media, the expectations, almost every eye in the country watching," McGwire said. 
Along the way, McGwire had to deal with a controversy about androstenedione, a muscle­

• Located 0.2 miles from Notre Dame 
• 
Now leasing two bedroom apartments for the '98-'99 school year 

• 
Short term, flexible leases at affordable rates 


Call us at 272-1441 or stop in at 1801/rish Way 
Did you IDiss out 
enhancing supplement that he uses. Baseball is now consider­ing a ban on the substance, which is banned in the NFL, Olympics and the NCAA. 
McGwire held a 27-13 lead over Sosa in the homer race through May. Yet Sosa set a major league record with 20 home runs in June, and the race was on. 
McGwire took a 62-58 edge with his record-breaking shot, but Sosa came back with a burst that tied it at 63 on Sept. 16. Both hit their 66th home runs on Sept. 25, starting a stretch in which McGwire pulled away by homering five times in his last 11 at-bats. 
"We both had unbelievable years," McGwire said. "No one in the game of baseball has done what he and I did." 
Said Sosa: "I always say that he was the man and he motivat­ed me. We had no jealousy." 
Invited to throw out the cere­monial first ball before Game 4 of the World Series in San Diego, McGwire provided one more highlight to his season. Sitting in a front-row box down the third­base line, he barehanded a foul ball hit by Chuck Knoblauch of the New York Yankees and flipped it into the stands behind him. 
Sosa threw out the first ball before Game 1 between the Yankees and Padres. He later received a hero's welcome in his native Dominican Republic, both for his home runs and for raising funds for his homeland, hit hard by Hurricane Georges. 
Thursday, November 5, 1998 

?"~ ' '''-'• '>><-~,.,. "W> ' 

:: "i •tdh\ /',; Irish Connection 
~ ' ~nN':..u:TIUP; / 

1 '-'-r£;l.ii!!N'" ~ 525 N Hill St. 233-8505 " ., 0 X:~:.: 
Friday, November 6 
* Liquid Lunch 3pm -9pm Complimentary soup and food available BBQ Meatballs, Stuffed Cabbage, Lasagna, Hot Dogs (while supplies last) and other specials to fit 
your budget. 

*The Hitman (lOpm to Close) DJ Corey "Hitman" Hartman Playing your favorite dance music downstairs in IConn party lounge 
21 and over with proper ID's, uniform security and lighted parking. 
Bands and Guest DJ's playing dates available; call 233-8505 for bookings Don't forget Monday Night Football, Big screen TV, free hot dogs and cigars during game. 
Book your parties at Irish Connection -no charge for student bookings. 

ATTENTION
on JPW last year? 
Ifyou are a senior who was abroad last 
Urban Plunge
semester or a junior With senior status and you would like to attend JPW 1999, 
Applications
then come join usII! 

are due at the esc 
4! • R 206 i.> ·;·.. · 
* Fill ont a1orm m oom ·. .··..:# ·;&·Ml! 

Tomorrow Nov. 6
LaFortune to get on the mailing IT;t for Junior Parents Weekend 1999, February 19-21, 1999. 

-Ifyou have any questions, call the JPW office at 1-6028 

• 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 

FOXTROT 

DILBERT 
~NN, I 1"'\f..OE A GET 
WITH iEO iHt>.l '<OU 
COULO IGNITE iHIS MI>.TCH BY SWEARING 
AI IT. 
CHOSSWORD  
ACROSS  27 Part of a bridge  55 "The  
1 Actress Moore 5 Grade school grade 9 More pecul1ar 14 Attorney Dershowitz  auction 31 "1­a clue" 35 Maidenform purchase 36 Hosiery shade 37 Tours school  Godfather" writer 57 "Mazeppa" oomposer 58 Singer Clapton 59 "The..Figure of  
15 Chill  38 Carrier from  Dickinson  
16 "Superman"  Stockholm  so "let's Make  
star  39 "Sweeney  
17 Elan  Todd" prop  &1 Fde's partner  
18 High schooler  40Et-­ 62 Exceptional  
19 Trembling tree  41 90's  63 Shouldered  
20 "South Pacific"  convenience,  64 Do in  
co-star  for short  65-bien  
22 N02  42 Prove a failure  
23 Bounced, as a baby on the knee 24 "1, Claudius" attire 26 Literary collection  43 Lasting 45 Part of a shark sighting 46 Kind of nut 47 Luanda resident 52 Assail  DOWN 1 Ina fog 2 Professor Higgins's pupil 3 "The --the White Suit"  
(1951 film)  
4 ·--We Trust" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Uke Job 6 To-do list 7--Canal a Capitol Hill 
gang 9 Lunchbox item 10 Bandleader/TV 
star of old 11 --of Educ. 12 AI any time 13 America West 
destination 21 OC-10 25 Eggs 28 Ry low over 29 Golden calf 


Volleyball 
Basketball 

Sunday, Nov. 8th 7:30pm 
Friday, Nov. 6th 7:00pm 
vs. Team Fokus 
vs. Georgetown Sunday, Nov. 8th 2:00pm vs. Villanova 


-.-----------------------------­
Wednesday, November 4, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
~~------------------------------~~~~~--~~~~-------------------------------------------­
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

"Uv g a faith to die for"· Mike Baxter, CSC, will 
lead a reflection session today at the Center for Social ;,.Goneet,ns~. The foeuswill be the process of discerning ·~,h ntegratefait:h and action into one's life beyond · th ege years. A simple supper will be served. 
The;\ Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. -Under the direction of Daniel Stowe, the orchestra. shall present its r~p concert this evening at 8 pm in W a.shington \'flaiL ·The program includes the Egmont Overture by ' Ludwig van Beethoven: "The Lark Ascending" by Ralph Vaughn Williams, featuring ND professor CarQ}yn Plummer on the violin: and "Appalachian Spt:big~ by Aaron Copland. The concert is free and 
' open to the public. Call 631·6201 for more informa· tion;At 
Puerto Rico Service Program-ND graduates Jose and Ma.rechy Fernandez will be at the Center for Social Concerns today from 1-4 pm and will present an 
··information session at 5 pm about Sagrado Corazon, a post~graduate service opportunity in Puerto Hico. This is a one-or two-year program with a variety of service placements. 
Puzzle by Bette Sue Cohen 
Wanted: Reporters 
42 Hard to please 51 I.O.U.'s, e.g. 44 Perfume holder 52 "Spare tire" 45 Cooked cereal 53 Resort near 
and photographers.
Venice museum 54 River to the display North Sea 49 Kind of module 56 Sea east of the 
48 Modern 
Join The 
50 Sky blue Caspian 
Observer staff. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1·900-420-5656 (75e per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 76'2-1665. 
Men's 
will have excellent id<',1S for ways of 
furthering your can•er or making 
money through fn.'t'-lance or ~tarting 
your own business. Don't ll't your 
emolions affecl your productivily. 
00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make major financial gains through your career choices today. You'll be able to deal with other people's prnb· lems. Don't let limitations set by oth­ers hold you back. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Sud­den changes regarding your financial posilion are possible. You can make residential moves or alterations lo your living quarters. Friends will pro­vide mental stimulalion. 000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: You will be quick wilh words today. Your ability to be convincing may keep you out of hot w,11<'r. Do not lake unnecessary risks if you are working with power tools or machinery. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have new ideas for ways of making extra cash. Business ventures will prove to be advanlageous. Take lhe time to explain whal you wanl done to those who work under you. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel should be on your agenda. Cultural knowledge will be acquired and friendships with foreigners will develop. Your own self-awareness will open new avenues of thought. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you get advice quickly you will a\'oid some of the problems that can occur. Don't allow others to play on your sympathy. Act swiftly and secretively for best results. 0000 
... 
.. 
-

BILL AMEND 
uM, 11-lAT You'LL BE 
LESS HAPPY 
To KNoW. 
./ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DI>.NG! HOW 
AGOUT DOUeLE. 
OR NOTHING? 0 ~ 
30"-Mable" (19i'B best seller) 

31 Superintendent 32 Bill of Rights defender, for short 33--dire (court procedure) 34 "Gentleman's Agreement" 
director 35 Ka-pow! 38 Clambake fare 39 Fab Four name 41 Part of A.P.B. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS 
DAY: Tatum O'Neal, Ike Turner, 
Bryan Adams, Sam Shepard 
Happy Birthday: You'll have the 
energy to accomplish all that you sci 
oul to do this year. You need to focus 
on what you do best and refuse lo let 
anyone stand in your way or lead you 
astray. TI1e more time and effort you 
put into doing your own lhing, the 
more successful you'll be. Don't feel 
guilty if you have to say no to some­
one asking for your assistance. Your 
numbers: 3, 12, 21, 30, 39, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Sud· den trips are evident. Be intent on learning through the experiences you encounter. Your ability to deal wilh people will enhance your reputation and your quick wit will win allies. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make professional changes today. Talk to those most likely lo aid you in your direction. Creative endeavors will pay off and show your talents. An ability to work with your hands will be recognized. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be indecisive regarding your romantic partner. Too many choices will confuse you. Social activities will be beneficial. You will shine in the eyes of others. 000 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Secret lovers will provide you with excite· ment; however, the end result may be to your disadvantage. Use your excel­lent memory and your skill with words to steer clear of conflicts. 0000 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Your abili· ty to correspond eloquently will bring popularity. Pleasure trips prove to be not only exciting but fruitful in terms of the new friends you'll meet. Take time to help relatives in need. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 

.RR1'~!t 



• Redskins' corner­
• Big Mac beats out 
back Darrell Green 

Slammin' Sammy for
.... 
ponders retirement 

AP Player of the Year. 
during difficult season.

PORTS 
p.J6 
p.22 

O THE 
p~e24 ------------------------------------------~ Thursday, November 5, 1998
BSERVER 

McMillen, Irish sink Swedes 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Spotts Editor 
Captain Sheila McMillen led the Notre Dame women's basketball team to a 111-82 victory last night, as she drained nine threes to lift the Irish over Visby­Sweden in the team's first exhibi­tion game. 
"I think it's just one of those nights when I found myself open 
-?. a lot," said McMillen, a preseason second-team, all-Big East selec­tion. "I was just fortunate that my teammates got me the ball when I was open." Six Irish players scored double figures, including McMillen who led all scorers with 27 points on 9-15 shooting from beyond the arc. Niele Ivey dished out 15 assists and had 18 points. "Overall, I thought we did a lot of good things," head coach Muffet McGraw said. "Sheila shot the ball extremely well and Niele · · just played a great game." . . The ObseiVer/Meg Kroener The Irish put together a 12-0 
Kelley Siemon look to build on last season's Sweet 16 appearance. t t k d b t
run o a e a 16-6 1ea , u 
found themselves ahead just 20­18, midway through the first half. 
"We came out a little slow, but it's the first game," McGraw said. "It's a very young team. We had a lot of young kids out there. We didn't expect it to take that long, but by the end of the first half, we ~ad it pretty much figured out. 
The Irish jumped out to a 51­32 lead at the half and never looked back, coasting to an easy victory. The Irish took advantage of several fast break opport1Jni­ties against Visby. 
"We did a nice job running the break and I think we will be a good team in the open floor," McGraw said. 
Diana Braendly had 10 points in 24 minutes of play, while Daniello Green had a double­double, scoring 17 points and pulling down 13 boards. 
Sophomore center Ruth Riley, another preseason second-team, all-Big East selection, picked up where she left off last year, recording a double-double with 19 points and 13 rebounds. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, she also continued her tendency to get into foul trouble, as she picked up five fouls in just 17 minutes of play. 
"That was a problem for her last year and something I hope she can fix ," McGraw said. "I think she's just trying too hard. She doesn't like to get beat and she doesn't like to get scored on. I just think she needs to choose her spots a little better and antic­ipate where the balls going to go. She got there late a few times tonight." 
McGraw is still looking for some improvement in her offense. 
"We can definitely do a little better," McGraw said. "Tonight, I think .we scored a lot of points, but we didn't score out of our offense a lot." 
McGraw also had a few con­cerns about the Irish defense, which allowed Visby to score 88 points. 
see WOMEN I page 21 
-
• 
•SAINT MARv's.·CROSS COUNTRY 

Yavello to lead team for the long run 
,r::::·: ... ,:::. 
By KATIE FURMAN and is generalty'toncerned Sporrs Writer about each ofus individually as. well as the whole team. It takes.a talented~.d~dicateg:;c '~TIMs ¢()pee'· 
person to run 3.1 miles in 
20:12 for the Saint Mary's Cross Country team while jug­gling positions on tile soph 
more class board,.atblet
council and CampusMmistry. 
Sophomore cross country sensation Genny Yavello fit~ this description, according tg•n teammates and her coach. 
"Her [Yavello's] leadership and dedication has helped us a lot mentally, especially for those runners on the team returning from last year.'' sophomore runner Katie Hummer said. ''She is an amazing person." . 
Yavello has been a leader for the cross country. team and the No.. l runner this year. . .·· 
"Genny is the team captain and obviously has been a lead;. ing force and influence on the younger runners," Be~es cross. country coach Dave Barstls said. "She has helped council them and has done agreatjob organizing things and.showing 

what Jriakes h .. captam," Hildebfaridsaid. With competitive meets on ~)ld$ ·· ·· · · · ....... e tim . .. ··.···• 
length of one <t(l. one•and"a" half hours, Yavello's stre and · · · · 
• FooTBALL 
Defense rests in safe hands 

By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
In the past few years, the emphasis on a good secondary in college football -has increased with the number of athletic offensive weapons on each team. 
A good secondary is impera­tive in order to considered among the top teams in the country. 
This year's secondary at Notre Dame is a close-knit, athletic group, which h a·s been instrumental in the team's 6-1 start. Though ham­pered by injuries most of the season which limited its depth, the defensive backfield has proven to be up for any challenge. 
Currently, four of the top six leading tacklers on the team 
come  from  coach  Tom  
McMahon's defensive  sec­ 
ondary. McMahon has  seen  

the improvement in his troops and has been impressed with the newcomers. 
"In the last few ballgames, we've been able to help us win and I think that's made the secondary feel good," McMahon said. "I know it's made me feel good but we have a lot of work left. 
"We have improved, we've got better as we've gone along," he added. "Some of the younger players, [like] Brock Williams and Tony Driver -some of the players that haven't had a whole lot of experience have really done well and I think that's helped 

The ObseiVer/Jeff Hsu 
Irish free safety A'Jani Sanders' sure tackling has been a key to Notre Dame's 6-1 start. Sanders looks to crush the Eagles at Boston College this weekend. 
us." Everybody's All-American at 
In particular, Driver has running back coming out of been the most talked-about high school, he highlighted the member of the improved sec­1997 recruiting class. ondary. 
see SAFETIES I page 18 
·~ 
Big East Quarterfinals at St. John's Sunday, 12 p.m. at Boston College Friday, 7 p.m. 
~ 
at Connecticut at Georgetown Friday, 12 p.m. 8 Friday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 










