• 'I 
'' 

• Hootie and the Blowfish has another 
• Columnist Mel Tardy explores the problem of 
Wednesday
album out and so does Courtney Love's band 
defining "American." 
Hole. Scene reviews those albums and more. 
SEPTEMBER 
Scene· 10-11 
Viewpoint • 8 
23, 1998 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 21 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Students want J-Boards revived 
By FINN PRESSLY their sole function is to run judicial board is to help foster N<·w< Writer hall elections. a stronger sense of community Junior Kelly Folks, chair­among residents of a particu­
As rroshmon votl) ror hall woman of the Hall Judicial lar dorm. rnpresontativos, they may not Board Hestoration Committee, "I think that the way it's roalizn that an organization a branch of the student gov­going now is that all the disci­that was onen an intogral part ernment's Judicial Council, plinary cases are going or community lirn at Notre has spearheaded a movement straight to Residence Life. I Damn has now benn rod ucnd to increase the disciplinary don't know if a lot of rectors to counting llwir ballots. role of judicial boards within are aware that, according to 
In ras1~s that involvn viola­tho residence halls. du Lac, there's supposed to be tions or rosidl'llCil hall ruins, "The hall judicial boards are a disciplinary body within the d u I. a c pI a c n s tlw in it ia I supposod to be a disciplinary dorm," said Folks. "Being l'llViPW or till' easn iII the body within the dorms, which judged by your peers furthers hands or tlw rnctor. Should is not the rase now," said tho whole notion of the dorm t(JP l'l~rlor dPcidll that rurtfwr hdks. "It had been, though, as as a community." artion Ill' rPquirPd. lw or slw rm:Pntly as two or three years Father Tom Doyle, rector of has liH• option or rdntTing tlw ago. It was a really big deal in Keough llall, said that while rasP to llitlwr tlw hall judicial somn dorms, and I think that's his hall eurrently does not board or to tlw orricn or fantaslie. have a standing disciplinary BnsidPnrP urn. "What we're trying to do is body, he would support a 
In many halls, howPvPr, that get togothnr with all tho halls revival of the hall judicial board is. nithl'l' bypassPd or and try to mnulate that." boards. simply non-PxistPnt. Whore Many have argued that the thP judirial boards do tlxist, t·.hinf rnason for having a hall see JUDICIAL I page 4 


duLac 
ase or
d 'de the c f ,, Rectors maXth:~~ the Of~cde. ?al 
't to el h II JU ICI
refer I L'fe or the a d to Residence tlors are encouraged +or 
d Rec .. 1 boar 1· boar the hall judi.Ciha do not involve use es wh1c 
diciplinary cas " pastoral concerns. 


Moberg recovering slowly 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Nl'ws Fditor 
Silll'l' sPnior Brent MobPrg sul'f'Prlld an atwurysm on tlw right side ol' his brain last WI'Pk, fami­ly, friPnds and tho Notre 
I> amP ,. om mun i t y h a v ~~ prayPd nonstop for his I'PCOVI'I'y. 
It SPPms thosP prayers a 1'1~ a II·" ad y being answPn~d. l>or.tors at St. .JosPph MPdiral Centnr cur­rPntly list Mohurg, a rnsi­dPnt assistant in KP1~nan llall. as lwing in "serious hut sllthiP" rond ilion. 
Mohnrg's mother Susan said that tlw show of sup­port from Notn~ Dame has lwlped lwr son's progmss. 
"Our ramily, wn're ovor­wholmnd by tho lovn and praynrs rrorn thn Notre DamP family." shn said. "It's awnsonw. lin's a fight­nr, and lw'll bo hack." 
llis fighting has brought him to a point wlwrl' ho is rPsponding rnorl', opening his I'YI~S and 11X(JI'IlSSing a dnsiro to writn his thoughts down on p<qwr. Tho doctors havn also turrwd down the n~spirator in an attempt to have Brnnt hrnath1~ on his own, according to Mrs. Molwrg. 
"Tiwv'vp taken him out of a drug-induel'd coma, but now IJp's just got to kind or rPiax for a whilP." shl) said. 
:\ prayPr vigil continuPs in thP KnPnan llall chapel, acrording to Brother Bon a v n n tun~ S e ull y, who 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum

has bonn visiting Mobnrg Keenan Hall residents hung banners outside the dorm as part of see MOBERG I page 4 the continuing vigil for hospitialized resident Brent Moberg. 


Elizondo: Quadalupe symbol of hope, faith 
By CHRISTINE KRALY an nncountnr with thn divino," News Wriccr said Elizondo. "It givns insight and light." 
Talk of religion, recognition "[The story! is so profound, it and faith-inspiring anecdotes can astound theologians," said filled thn auditorium of the Elizondo. lie b1llievos that the Center for Continuing story is so important, in fact, Education last night, as Father that "w11 should n~ad fill t.hn Virgilio Elizondo presented his same way as wo mad tho story lecture entitled "Quadalupe: of creation." Mother of the New Creation." Elizondo also eommnntnd on 
"Quadalupe is not a dogma Quadalu pn's sign ificancn not of faith," said Elizondo, who only in the world or stressed the importance of Our Catholieism. hut other reli­Lady of Quadalupe as a symbol gious and spiritual outlnts, of faith and hope, despite a such as Mnthodism and art. person's own religious beliefs. "It's amazing the fascination 
Elizondo  Iartists have  
spoke  about  today!  of  
the  story  of  Quadalupe,"  
Our Lady of Quadalupn and  'QUADALUPE IS NOT A  s a i d Elizondo,  
her influence  DOGMA OF FAITH.'  who  eom­ 
on  those  in  mented  on  
need of faith.  his astonish- 
lie highlighted  FATHER VIRGJUO hiJZONDO  me 11 t  and  
a  story  of  a  happiness at  
sick  woman  diseovering  
under a  coma  a  shrine  to  
who at first did  not believe in  Quadalupn in  St.  l'atrirk's  

Quadalupe. After seeing a Cathedral in N11w York City. vision of the Lady while uncon­Elizondo believ11s that tlw scious, however, the woman story of Quadalupe. while quickly revived. some may not lind it cn~dibln, 
These arc the stories which should bn taken for its "saving make Elizondo believe "you truth," rather than its "histori­don't have to believe in eal truth.',.. Quadalupe" to understand her Elizondo, who lives in San power. Antonio, Texas, is the author 
Elizondo highlighted the of nine books and founder of story or Quadalupe and her the Mnxiean Cultural CnntPr. vision, describing it as a "very lin has rncnivnd numProus carefully elaborated poem [in honors. including a humani­which) everything has signifi­tarian award rrom the cation." National Confenlncn of 
Quadalupe has become a Christians and Jews. lie also symbol of hope and faith served as the CBS network's through her vision to Juan commentator for Mother Diego in 1531. It is a "story 
about a personal encounter, 
see ELIZONDO I page 4 
''' 

page 2 The Obst;;rver ·INSIDE Wednesday, September 23, 1998 
• lNSIDE CoLUMN 


Enough 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

Already 

Student dies in police custody, officers' conduct in question 

BIRMINGHAM, Ala. reportedly suffered a broken arm as a After what's been going on in Washington 
Joseph "Boston Joe" Annis, a 27-result of the struggle. the last few weeks, would you want to devote 
year-old engineering student at the When the police finally had Annis your life to the service of our government? 
University of South Alabama, died last shackled and handcuffed as he was If you answered yes, 
week in police custody following an lying face down, he began having I have a great deal of Tim Logan 
incident on Government at George trouble breathing. He was taken to respect for you, but I Assisranr News Editor 
streets near downtown Mobile. Mobile Infirmary Medical Center also have to question 
Strangulation and multiple blunt­where he was pronounced dead on your sanity a bit. In the wake of the release of 
force injur.ies have been ruled the arrival. Annis's parents have retained the Starr report and then the grand jury video­
cause of death by the Alabama the services of a Mobile-area lawyer tape, it is becoming ever more apparent that, 
Department of Forensic Sciences. An and are claiming the arresting offi­for public figures, there can be no private life. 
investigation is now being conducted Annis was only at Haley's for a few cers used excessive force in arresting This unrelenting assault on the personal 
to determine whether Annis's death is minutes when he ran out of the club their son. realm, not just that of President Clinton but 
the result of police brutality. and headed toward Government An autopsy found Annis' blood-alco­also of his congressional opponents-includ­
Ronnie Smith, a friend and co­Street, where he was reportedly not hol level was .20, more than twice the ing House Judiciary Committee chairman 
worker of Annis's, had gone out with wearing a shirt and was seen charg­legal limit, when the clash occurred. Henry Hyde -has stripped away the final lay­
Annis that night, stopping at Veet's to ing at vehicles shortly before 3 a.m. The four Mobile police officers ers of privacy which enabled our leaders to be 
have some drinks. The two then sepa­There was a reported struggle when involved in the incident have been human. . ·.. 
rated, only to meet again at Hayley's police arrived on the scene, during placed on administrative duty while This is a trend which began several years 
on Dauphin Street an hour later. which officers allegedly used batons, the death is investigated by the state ago and has grown at exponential proportions 
After making plans to spend the night pepper spray and prone restraint to crime lab. Annis was described by ever since, and which is driving too many of 
with Smith because he had allegedly subdue Annis. By this time, Annis had friends as a man who cared about his America's best people out of politics. 
had a fight with his girlfriend, Annis removed the rest of his clothes. One job and was interested in his school­Countless senators and congressmen have 
proceeded to go to two more clubs, of the officers, who was not identified, work. leil office in recent years because they wanted to regain a private life. Joe Kennedy, my own representative in Washington, was driven to 
• UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT • VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY give up his seat in Congress after a summer of intense media pressure following the discovery 
Discipline discussed for off-campus acts Officials aim to reduce discrimination 
that his brother had an affair with a teenager. 
STORRS. Conn. BLACKSBURG, Va. 
Tired of a life with television crews camped The University's task force on community and civility will University administrators have implemented training pro­out on his lawn and endless mug shots running discuss a revision of the school's code of conduct Tuesday grams for faculty and staff to prevent discrimination on cam­on the front of Boston newspapers, Kennedy, that would allow the University to discipline students for off­pus. Donna Lisker, sexual assault education coordinator at whose only sin was being related to his broth­campus incidents. "That's a policy topic that could come out the Women's Center said on the first day of an engineering er, decided not to seek re-election. The real of the recommendations of the task force and only after a full class, some professors tell students "I want you all to know tragedy in all of this is that our nation's voice­discussion with the campus," said chancellor Mark Emmert. that I don't think women can be engineers. I don't think theyless were deprived of one of their most pas­"Nobody's committed themselves one way or another." The are qualified. I have to have you in my class, but I don't like sionate and powerful advocates. 
University will discuss changes to the code with code of con­it," a professor said. The professor's dissatisfaction with I'm not saying that character doesn't matter duct experts and will review codes from other universities women exemplifies what female students might encounter for politicians. It does. It is of the utmost before making any changes. The proposal to revise the code during their college careers in a male-dominated major,importance, but our concern for the character has been discusse by ad~inistrators, said Liz Erhardt, presi­Lisker said. Part of the aim of the orientation program this of our leaders should rest primarily in that part dent of the Undergraduate Student Government. "This is a year was to empower students to act in ways beneficial to not of their lives which actually impacts us-their fairly recent proposal," Erhardt said. "The University is only themselves, but to other members of the community. The leadership. 

working with their lawyers so that the policy doesn't get question of advancement toward this goal is forthcoming as It doesn't bother me nearly as much that ridiculous." Code changes must be approved by the board of Tech President Paul Torgersen plans to address the campusClinton cheated on his wife as it does that he trustees. The student life committee of the board of trustees on the success of such initiations. "We want more sensitive has repeatedly turned his back on the ~iberal began investigating changing the code since disturbances at .faculty," Torgersen said. "In a field like engineering, there are Democrats who sent him to Washington. 
off-campus parties were damaging UConn's reputation. at least a few old faculty that don't believe women belong."
By contrast, Arizona senator John McCain underwent a nasty divorce some time ago, but, 
• MURRAY STATE UNIVERSITY • lhii!VERSITY OF OKlAHOMA 
as a politician, his character is impeccable­
he has repeatedly stood by his beliefs, even in 
Dorm fire investigation continues 13 students injured in van accident 
the face of vicious attacks from his own party. 
MURRAY, Ky. NORMAN, Okla.
If we continue to pillory our leaders for mis­State Police detectives continued to investigate Monday in Thirteen students were treated l"or injuries at Pauls Valleytakes so many of us have made, we will contin­
ue to drive the good ones from government. 

Friday's dorm fire which killed one student and left another General Hospital after a van accident Saturday morning. Running for office today is no longer just a test 
critically injured. The Kentucky State Police is awaiting Eleven were released and two were sent to Norman results from crime lab tests on evidence gathered in the Regional Hospital for further treatment. Lieutenant Dianeof leadership, skill and vision; it has become a 
trial by fire -a test of who can stomach the 

hours following the fire, Captain John Vance said. Vance Haynie, of the Oklahoma llighway Patrol in Ardmore, said most personal abuse and who can stand to 
said he is hoping to get those results early Tuesday, but until 15 students, who were on an OU Housing trip to Turner then it was highly unlikely there would be any comment on Falls, were traveling south on Interstate 35 when the van'shave his life story held up for criticism by any­
one who cares to criticize. 

the investigation. He added the state police had yet to rule right rear tire blew out. Haynie said injuries ranged from It's no wonder that voter turnout is decreas­
the fire arson, leaving it for now a fire with "suspicious caus­internal damage to minor cuts and bruises. Haynie said the ing, we've got more dirt on worse politicians­
es." Murray Fire Chief Pat Scott said it was obviously a sus­driver swerved to the left when the tire burst and then cut it's enough to turn anyone oli 
picious fire. "This was not a normal fire," he said. "The dam­hard to the right, causing the van to slide into the center age produced exceeded what would come from a normal median. The van turned over once and stopped in the north­
Our political system works best when the best people get involved in politics. But when 

carpet fire that extended into the ceiling." Scott said it was bound lane of the highway. "I tried to control Ithe van] and we make it so that getting involved in politics 
nearly impossible for the fire to have burned like it did with­bring it to a safe speed," said senior Raveendran Prabakren. out an accelerant present. "I cannot prove this was an arson the driver and organizer of the trip. "I felt like it was a warmeans giving up a private life, those best peo­
ple lose their interest in government. After all, fire because I don't have the lab equipment, but I do have zone." Junior Chris Houghton was asleep in the van at the the experience to say this was not a normal everyday fire." time of the accident."! woke up to hear the noise," he said.
the corporate world generally doesn't care if 
you slipped up in your marriage two decades 
ago, or if your brother slept with a teenager. It 
pays a lot better, too, but that's another matter 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER altogether. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast
It's time we eased off a little on the moral 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures
high-mindedness that insists our public olli­
cials must be pure in every facet of their exis­
tence. Let's just make sure they're doing their job the way they should be. 
.....·····n 
L 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Wednesday ¢-67 46 

• TOOAY's STAFF  Thursday  c:=1  70  53  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCanhy Tim Logan  Emmert Malloy Jenn Zatorski  Friday  ~  71  54  
Chris Lawler Sports  Graphics Mark Higgins  Saturday  ~  75  51  
Kathleen O'Brien  Production  
Viewpoint Eddie Llull  M. Shannon Ryan Lab Tech  Sun~ay ~-;;-•./} ··....... /,-"'·  ~,58  42  
Jeff Hsu  
Albany  64  35  Fresno  84  55  Phoenix  96  72  
Billings  68  45  Memphis  78  58  Reno  77  44  
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~.·xcept during exam and vacation penods. The Ob.!.erver is a member of the A.~soclatl·J Pres!!.. All reproduction rights are re!ioerved.  4,9,~4eQ -(f Showers f.storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny  ~ u Pl. Cloudy Cloudy  Boston 62 Cleveland 62 Detroit 64  45 44 46  Miami 92 Milwaukee56 New York 65  78 51 61  Richmond 70 St. Paul 66 Seattle 75  48 50 52  
Vsa Assocsated Press GraphicsNet  

L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­




--------~-~~--------· 
page 3 
' 




omens 


WOMEN IN LAW 

Madame Counselor: 
The legal profession: 
past, present, future 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
Nt•w,WJiJt•r 
MPPt tlw womPn lawyers of today and tomorrow. l·:duratPd. rnolivatPd. and socially conscious. wonwn today arP drawn to law from divnrse backgrounds and ·intPrPsts. Ilaving attairH'd a lewl of education thal most in i\nwrir.a will nPVPr n~arh. t.IH~sn women havf' onP common goal: to pradicn law. · 
;\ long slow road 

Surprisingly. whiln women have\ been viewed as a minority for much of tlw nation's existence, tlwir his­tory in tlw legal profession spans over 300 ynars. Thn first woman lo prartirP law in tho UnitPd States, Margan•t Br·<'nl.. art!'d as tlw executor of Maryland (;ovPrnor Lord Calvnrt's nstato in 1638. Despite this f'arly lwginning, il wasn't until 1920 that women could prartin~ law in nwry statn in tlw nation. 
(;ains ranw slowly lwf'or<' then. In 1869, Iowa !Jpc·anll' thl' first stall' to admit women to the bar. That sanH\ ynar, Washington Univnrsity became the l'irst law school to admit wonwn. 
Wortwn f'acf'd lngal ohstar.los as wc\11 as personal hiasl's. Tlw 1872 Suprf'nw Court case Bradwell vs. Illinois pPrmitt<'d states lo !'xcludn wonwn from prac­liring law. Although wonwn could lobby individual statPs for tlw right to practice, fmnaln lawyers rc•rnairwd a small minority up through tho mid twen­til'th rPntury. As rl'rc>nlly as I 1)(>0, wonwn made up only :l..'i pnrrPnt of llw nnrollrnont in U.S. law srhools.llut. duc> in part to social changns and the rivil rights ntoVPillPnt. by I 99(> women made up 44 JH'I'rPnt of' llw law studnnts nnrollnd law programs in this rountry. 
IJc>spil<• inrrc~asing numbers of' female law students, wonwn madn up only 24 pnrcont ol' tho lngal profes­sion in 191JO. Wornnn today arn more likely than mnn to work in a solo prarti1:n than in a large firm. and arrording to statistics from the 1<JRO's, an~ twice as likc>ly to work for thn govnrnment than men. 
J.'lnxihh~ hours. grnatnr presence of other women lawy«'rs and lownr ratos of' sexual harassment could acrounl for th«'S!\ dif'f'nrnncns. 
In their own voiecs the Law School a positive one. come as a female law student, Oven reflectnd the Wonwn lawynrs today must confront a world divid­"I received a lot of mentoring and support," said optimism expressed by O'Hara toward the legal pro­ml by LIH• intnrnsts of' thnir earner and family. O'Hara, who credits the small class size at Notre fession. 
"It r.an sonwtinw.s be dil'tkult to balanec\ tho time Dame and the high accessibility of her professors in "In my own experience, we're fortunate that more dnmarnls of' a largP firm prar.ticn with family life," part for her success. By the time she left private employers are becoming more sensitive to wom1m's said Patricia O'llara. vicn president for Student practice, O'Hara found that the number of women needs as mothers and wives," she said. i\l'f'airs and prof'Pssor of' law, about hor Limn as a cor­working alongside her had increased significantly as Upon graduating, Oven hopes to work for a lirm poratP lawyPr during the mid-to-late 1970's. the number of women in law schools grew. that will allow her to do pro bono work in tho Spanish 
()'!lara. who worked for tho snc:ond-largost law "Large firms are more successful, in general, in speaking community. firm in San J:randsco lwforn corning to Nolrn Dame, recruiting than they have been at retaining women r«'m«'mlwrs that. slw was orw out of' only thrnn wonwn lawyers," said O'Hara. She noted that a women's suc­
in a firm of' ovnr 1JO lawynrs. cess at a firm can often depend on its willingness to "SomPiimPs I fPit I had a smallnr margin of error offer a flexible working arrangement. and IPss room t.o makt• a mistako," she said. Notre Dame's own law school has reflected the 
Assoriatf' profnssor of law Barbara J."ick, who has national increase in women law students. According taught at NotrP Danw's law school !'or l.'i years, !'aced to Father James McDonald, assistant dean of Notre similar pressuro. Shn also said tho obstacles women Dame's Law School, 35 percent of the applicants in l'acn today an~ dif'f'Prnnt from thosn slw faced 25 19R4 were women, but by 1998, females comprised 
y1mrs ago whnn 1mtnring law. 45 percent of the Law School's applicants. 
"Jo:mploynrs would sonwtinws say outright that they "Because Notre Dame Law School ... has no target didn't hirn women for certain jobs," shn remnm­percentages for any group, it is not possible to pre­hnrnd. diet what the percentage of women or of any group 
O'llara attnndnd Notre\ Damn's Law School !'rom will be in each class," said McDonald."However, we 1971 until 1974, for part of' that limn, Notre Dame's do make every attempt to welcome women and other undnrgraduatn program was still all main. Although less well-represented groups in law schools." lwr class of Il>O had only I 0 women, O'Hara gradu­McDonald noted that women make up 44 percent of alPd summa cum laud!~ and found her nxperienen at tho Law School's lirst-year class this fall, the highest 
percentage of women since 1983. 
The Next Generation

ljAW JJ~JGit~J~JS CONJ1EitltED Today's women in Notre Dame's Law School have 
come to the profession based in part on social issues 
they confronted as undergraduates. Heather

UI,ON WOMEN AND MEN 
McShain, a third-year law student who also serves as an assistant rector in Breen-Phillips Hall, completed two Summer Service Projects as an undergraduate math major at Notre Dame. Her work with inner-city


Women 
youth sparked her interest in law. "I felt that the law can give people a voice that lack 1959..60 money and education," she said. Christina Oven, an assistant rector in Walsh Hall and a third-year law student, became interested in
1969-70 
the profession while an undergraduate Spanish and political science major at Santa Clara University in California. She interned at a Washington, D.C., legal centnr for Spanish speakers. The Center, which worked with immigrants and domestic violence vic­tims, attracted her to the social justice aspects or law. When askod about any obstacles she's had to over-





page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 23, 1998 
constantly not following quiet The LSAT is a product of the hours and was disturbing Law School Admissions



Judicial Moberg LSAT 

people during study hours, Council. It is scored on a 
continued from page 1 then those people would come before the judicial board," 
"I think that anything that helps students take responsi­bility and accountability in the community is a good thing," Doyle said. "I would be totally behind it, as long as there was a clear mission and purpose of the hall judicial board, and it was understood in disciplinary matters how they would work in tandem with the rector. 
"Students involved in justice and reconciliation is certainly a valuable process that helps us live and grow together as a Christian community." 
Other dorms, such as Lyons Hall, have standing judicial boards, which are used in set­tling public matters that affect the whole hall. 
"For instance, if there were a particular room that was said Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall. "I think it does call people to account­ability." 
Meanwhile, Folks and the restoration committee are currently in the process of researching the history and mission of the boards, and hope to have a new system of hall discipline in place for next year. 
"We're looking into the stu­dent constitution to see if there's any duties outlined by lit]," Folks said. "We've also looked through du Lac, and that's where we've found the bulk of our information. 
"I think we should have a new, revised judicial board system in place for the next student government adminis­tration." 
Things to do today: 
1. 
Find extra tickets for Purdue game. 

2. 
Watch Simpsons-twice (Hooray for syndication!). 

3. 
Stop by the Post-Grad Service Fair! 


HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES See us at the Post-Graduate Service Fair! Wednesday, September 23rd 6:30 to 9:00 pm Stepan Center 
Placements in: 
Phoenix, AZ Hayward (Bay Area),CA Colorado Springs, CO Brockton, (Boston Area) Portland, OR Wilkes-Barre, PA 
--Simple Lifestyle Other Sites as we grow ... --Spirituality --Community Living 
For more info ... Holy Cross Associates Box 668 -Moreau Phone: 1-5521 E-mail: nd.hcassoc.l @nd.edu http://www.nd.edu:80/-hcassoc/ 


The Medical Scientist Training Program 
at the 
Medical College of Wisconsin offers a combined M.D.-Ph.D. degree program. Trainees receive full tuition scholarships and stipends throughout their studies. Highly qualified students with a background in research are encouraged to apply. The training program application deadline is November 1 . 


.. 
MEDICAL 
COLLEGE 
OF WISCONSIN 
Medical Scientist Training Program Medical College of Wisconsin 8701 Watertown Plank Road Milwaukee, WI 53226-0509 Phone: (414) 456-8641 
1-(800) 457-2775 E-mail: mstp@mcw.edu Web Site: www.mcw.edu/mstp 
continued from page 1 
since he was rushed to the hospital last Tuesday morn­ing. 
"[Yesterday! he held my hand, or I guess I held his hand, and there was a little bit of recognition," Scully said. "It's going to be slow, but we're going to hold on, and weOre not going to replace him as [a resident assistant]." 
Moberg's section has pulled together in an effort to keep up a sense of community despite the temporary loss of their leader, Scully said. 
"The freshman in his sec­tion especially looked up to him as a big brother," Scully said. "They're trying to do things on their own, but it's so hard, especially in our kind of setup when someone in his position is regarded as a hero." 



Elizondo 
continued from page 1 
Theresa's funeral. 
His lecture, which kicked off the season's Julian Samora Lecture Series, was both a source of information and a dedication, as he highlighted the importance of Julian Samora, a tenured Notre Dame professor who died in 1996. 
Samora, an expert in sociolo­gy and anthropology, was the first Chicano to receive a Ph.D in the U.S., was an important figure in creating programs of study of the Mexican experi­ence in this country. 
Elizondo received the Laetare Medal in 1997 at Notre Dame's commencement exer­cises. 
It is considered the most prestigious annual award con­ferred upon Catholics in the Untied States. 

continued from page 3 
"[The LSAT is] more of an analytical test measuring how you can think ... your reason­ing and logic capabilities," said Kamran Hussain, a rep­resentative for the regional Kaplan test center. "[Those things] indirectly correlate to how well you deal with infor­mation, which can help you later in your career." 
r:','''' rA<trHia.tilrv requirements. 
ee .will also review emerging tax issues and promote University educa­tion and awareness of tax issues and ramifications. 
range from 120 to 180. Notre Dame's school of law looked for an average LSAT mark of 163 and a 3.44 grade point average last year, according to Newsweek magazine. 
Getting into law school is difficult enough, but getting into the building to take an LSAT is also serious business. In addition to providing iden­tification, students must be fingerprinted. 


inted or 
A Notre Dame alumnus, Klee spent 15 years as the chief financial officer of the South Bend Clinic. a multi.., specialty physician group with more than 60 doctors. Before joining the clinic, Klee had spent seven years as a tax consultant with Ernst and Young in Buffalo, N.Y., and South Bend. 
Klee received his bache­lor of business administra­tion degree in accountancy from Notre Dame in 1974 and his master's degree in theology from the University in 1978. He has been a certified public accountant since 1977. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds to speak your mind. 

1, '' 


COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli jets raid Lebanon 
TYHE. Lnbanon 

lsrat>li warplanl's hlasti'Cl suspnt:lnd gunrril­la positions in soutlwrn l.nbanon on Tunsday hours aftf'r two lsnwli soldiers wnn· killnd in a tank lHTidf'nl, LPhannsn sncurity ol'lieials said. Four lsrat>li jf'ls lin•d nirw rnissilns at. guPrTilla trails and hidnouts rwar thn Litani HiVf'r. I(, mill'S soutlwast ol' llw soullwrn port ol' TyrP, ollirials said. Thnrn was no irnnwdi­alf' word on rasualtins l'rorn llw al'tnrnoon air raid. At dawn Tunsday, an lsnwli tank ovnr­lurrrf'd on a hill rwar tlw rivnr, killing two lsr<tf'li soldiPrs and injuring thrP<' otlwrs. Tlw tank rollf'd oVf'r rwar llw villagP ol' Kantara in tlw t•astPrn st•t·tor of thf' lsnu•li-occupind zone in south l.f'banon. 
Parents charged with manslaughter 
<;IH<:ENSBOHO, l'a. 

Tlw parnnts ol' two young boys who locknd lht'!llSPlvns in a 1·.ar tnmk and sull'ocatnd wm·n rhargf'd Tuesday with involuntary rnanslaughtl'r and rhild nndangnrnwnl. Carl Wright. 2(,, and Slwrry Wright. 22. WfH'n rhargf'd lwrausP ol' a lark of stqH>rvision wlwn tlwir rhildn•n dim! Aug. 2 and for pnwi­ous inridPnts. state Troopnr Jnf'f'n~y Cnrmak said. i\ftPr Wright wnnt to work, sons Christoplwr, 5. and lln~w. 2, took two puppies into a rar trunk and pullnd thr. lid shut. The bodif's ol' tlw boys and thn puppies wnre lirund six hours latPr. Tlwy had bem1 dead about an hour. )\:Irs. Wright had r·PlurnPd from an ovnrnight shill and was aslnnp when her chil­dn•n wnnt playing in this town ol' 380 pnopln south ol' Pittsburgh, authorities said. 
Texas hopes for heat relief 
DALLAS 

Many years !'!'Om now, li>lks in Texas will bP telling thnir grandchildren about the summer of I 1JIJ8, when the heat seemed to bake tho Lone Star State to a hard enamel finish. SHcurity guard Beth McDonald will be abln tnll or how slw would "go horne, turn on llw air ronditionor, strip and play on the 1·omputer." Mary .Jo Walknr's kids will rocall how tlwy wen~ draggml to the library, pool, shopping mall and twieo to Colorado just about anywlwre there was air conditioning or coolnr wnatlwr. "You can't do Chuck E. UwPsn's <WI~ry day." Ms. Walker said. For this was ll!ln of thn hottest. dnadliest and f'osllinst sumnwrs in Texas history. And it's not rwcnssarily over just becausn the calen­dar says it's fall as ol' W<~drwsday. Just how hot was it'! Fifty-orw limns at'ternoon highs rPadwd or nxcnmled I00 degrens. Sundown brought little n~li<~l'. with overnight tempera­turns dropping no lownr than 80 dngrees a rncord 38 tinws. 
• DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 


A"iSOCIATEil PHESS 
SANTO DOMINGO 
After plowing through the northern Caribbean, Hurricane Georges carved into the Dominican Bepublic on Tuesday, killing at least one person, uprooting trees and churning the sea as Dominicans and tourists alike !led to shelter. 
The mammoth storm was on a trajectory that could send it crashing into the Florida Keys by late Thursday or early Friday. 
Authorities urged tourists to leave the island chain, as residents began boarding up windows in anticipation of'Georges' fury. 
The storm caught the Dominican capital of' Santo Domingo almost entirely unprepared Tuesday. Forecasters had expected it to hit only the northern coast, but Georges changed course and headed straight for the tropical capital of 3 million people. 
Even more than in Puerto Hico. where Georges exploded shop and car win­dows, flipped small air­planes and whisked away satellite dishes, the damage was expected to be exten­sive. 
In this poor country where the minimum wage is about $140 a month, the wooden houses that line riverbeds and hillsides would be no match for the storm's 110 mph winds. 
A boy was killed when a wall collapsed on him in the Santo Domingo neighbor­hood of La Caleta, said pres­idential spokesman Adriano Miguel Tejada. Another 10 people were killed in Georges' furious march across the Caribbean. 
In neighboring Haiti, which shares the western half of the island of llispaniola and is also on the edge of the storm's path, people prepared to battle the hurricane amid 

even  more profound pover­ 
ty.  
As  the  darkness  

approached, Dominican President Leone! Fernandez told his country­men the island's fate was in God's hands. 
"For the moment, the only thing left for us to do is to raise our prayers to the Almighty," said the presi­dent. 
At 5 p.m. EDT, the eye of Georges was located over the Dominican Hepublic, about 130 miles east of Port-au-Prince, the capital of Haiti. 
In the Florida Keys, visi­tors were urged to take air­line flights while they were still available, or to leave before the rush by way of the Overseas Highway, the only road linking the I 10­mile ribbon of islands. 
David Chorney, a meteo­rologist at the National llurrieane Center in Miami, said there was "a pretty good probability" that Georges would hit Florida. 
"As far as intensity, it's still too early to tell what it's going to do," he said. After crossing the Caribbean islands and getting back over water, he said, "there's a good chance it could rede­velop and strengthen again." 
The storm had already caused what is expnr.ted to amount to hundreds of mil­lions ol' dollars in damage in Puerto Hir.o, where the entire island lost power and most had their water r.ut. Five pnople wel'l') killed on the island and tens of thou­sands took refuge in shel­ters. 


South African troops fight in Lesotho 
S&l' 500: 
Composi1c 
I 029.80 Volume: 
t),<)! 609,!!00.000
7897.20 
VOLUME LEADERS 
i'UMC&r::4t ULI!r:IH '!il rli4~~it l ~uu~ CBUl 
I 1.11 S,\ ( lHtl' I·~~~ +-II 4H +4 ~(12!'1 15.So25 llFII <..tl\II'Ull.lt Ill II. -1-11,21 +11.12!'11) 60.0625 '-tl"IWUitl.lllll\1 WCl)M +l.il ...n.b25n 4K.2500 it"0\1 ("01{1' COM'\ +O.IJK .,(UI25 .l2..l750 YAIIlHl lSL YIIOO +6.HK +h.h250 102.9.\75 \Ill ltll\OFT CORI' \.tm •1.22 +1..\125 liN lH75 INIH.nliW INit ·1.26 ~\.llh25 It\ 5625 ('(J.\.ti'/\(J('C)Mf'tlff:f~ ("l'(l +11.7'1 +0.2.'tl}(l .II.H751l t:lH.,\.(:lH.A l.{Jitfl KO .v,; ·2.KI25 !itd7SO CISCO \Y\ II M'i t !'!CO +1 {)(I +0,6250 b2.H7~0 
AssOCJA'Jll() PRESS 
MASERU, Lesotho 
Invited in by the beleaguerod gov­ernment of this nation, South African forces encountered unexpected resis­tance Tuesday from rebellious Lesotho troops in theh' first military incursion since apartheid. 
At least 10 soldiers and live civilians died in heavy fighting. Furious gunfire and artillery rounds forced 20 armored South Afl'iean vehicles equippnd with cannons to retreat and scuttle an attempt to reinforce troops at a barracks near the capital's air­port, where a day-long lirefight raged. 
The anti-government forces also used antiaircraft and small-arms tire against South African helicopters car· rying troops to battles at military bases. Maj. Ben van Zyl said. 

About 600 South African soldiers, personnel carriers, attack helicopters and mortar units rumbled across the border atdawn Tuesday after the gov­ernment had asked regional countries to send military help. 
The action tollows weeks of opposi­tion party demonstrations over allega­tions of election-rigging in May, as well as an army rebellion that had effec· tively paralyzed the government. 
Lesotho (pronounced leh-SOO-too), an impoverished kingdom slightly smaller than Maryland with a popula­tion of 2 million people. is surrounded by South African territory and is large­ly dependent on South Africa for jobs and income. 
Officials said the South African force had secured Lesotho military head· quarters, the main air force base, cen­tral business district and a neighbor· hood where most diplomats and Cabinet members live. 
During the intervtmtion. angry crowds looted stores, stoned cars and set government buildings and shopping centers ablaze. Foreign Minister Tom Thabane said a bazooka attack destroyed his house. 
At least I 0 South African soldiP.rs died in a fir•efight outside outsid(~ Makoanyne barracks northeast of the eapital, a senior South African oflicPr, speaking on eondition of anonymity. told Tho Associated Press. Five Lesotho citizens were also reported killed. 
Military ollkials in South Africa also reported that live soldiers were killed in sometimes fierce fighting and sniper fire throughout the r..apital, which has been gripped by weeks of anarchy. 
-...  -~..  
1  \  ~...  n  'TT.·7~ ·.Jf';l?'TO"..:.f' ~ •.,-.  r­ ;, . ~  .•  (  i  ·L.  .. ..... :J  I!.  
page 6  The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS  Wednesday, September 23, 1998  


,-T-he Observer/Lara Becker 
Himilce Novas spoke last night about the importance of acknowl­edging the contributions of other cultures in America. 
Author looks at Latino contributions 
By GRETCHEN TRYBUS 
News Writer 
"Latino history is American history. It is not set apart," said Cuban-born Himilce Novas, a ''fighter from the get-go,'' as she calls herself. 
This was the underlying theme at "Cafecito Con Leche'' last night when Novas spoke. The multi~tll.Ient~d author spoke of the imphr~ tance of "come[ingJ together and share[ing] thoughts. ·· 
"It makes us bigger as 
and Langston Hughes. 
Growing up around those people, in addition to being raised by very non-judgemen­tal parents, shaped the kind of person that spe is today, according to Novas. These factors led her to be against ~very kind of discrimination an_d res~ect all cult~;esishe satd. : _ _ 1s _ .. · ...·. 
''Lwishthey •w?uld sta~t passing the good laws like integration: People still obey the mores,"•she said. · 
This Cuban'-American ques· 
. Americans ifwe.can..a,i::lmowl-,,-, tio.tled w.by ,American: J:lisi;QrJ( , . edge other cultures· contribu-books do not mention events lions," she said. ':su<;h as the deportation. of 
Novas spoke at SaintMary's as part of the Hispanic Heritage Month festivities. She is the author of several books, both fiction and non· fiction; in addition, she has worked for various maga­zines and has a talk-radio show in Santa Barbara, Calif. 
Novas was born in Cuba: and raised in New York by her writer parents after they fled the Castro regime in the 1960s. Her literary roots came mostly from her father, who served as a translator for authors such as Hemingway Hispanic-Ampricans to Mexico during the 1930s. 
She also addressed myths about Hispanic-Americans that she has come across along the years, including the idea that there are too many Latino immigrants in this country and that many Latinos live off federal assis­tance. 
Another myth Novas addressed is that people sometimes assume most Latinos are foreigners and not American enough, she said. 
" -(!( ­
~t~;xH~a~llil 
HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information. 289-5080 
~~s. ),~
~·'=r~
--.......... 7" 


Panel will look at post-grad studies 
By KATIE FURMAN News Wrirer 
If you're looking for money for postgraduate education, Graduate and Professional School Night at Saint Mary's tonight is the place for you. 
"This night," said Kristina Pendley, a counselor for the Career Development Center, "is for the juniors and seniors to help them think about grad­uate schooL" 
"It is a night for them to find out about financial aid and what they want to do; whether they should go right to grad school. or work first," she con­tinued. 
The panel will feature pre­

sentations by four women on .-------------_,...-..,.---------:;;;---, 
topics ranging such as "How to Fund More Education" and 
~I~~:s~?, Prepare for Entrance 
Not only will the more tech­
nical aspects of preparing for graduate school be discussed, but the decision between going 
to school right after college instead of waiting will also be presented. 
"I have experience with both decisions," said Mary Connolly, a Saint Mary's math professor who will be giving the presen­tation. Connolly, who originally went to grad school for her math degree, later went back for her computer science degree when two of her own children were in college. 
"The choice really depends on the person involved," she said. "If you're sure as to a career and are in a technical field', it is good to go right away because you will remem­ber what you learned." 
She also pointed out, howev­er, "The second time I went back I was more mature and kept things in balance, so you have to look at all the factors." 
Business professor Susan Vance will also be speaking. 

She will present the benefits of waiting for further education. 
"If your credentials are not strong, then going to work or volunteering will give you experience with which you can strengthen them to help you get into schools," she said. 
Vance also cited other fac­tors to consider as benefits to waiting, including being tired of school, saving money and gaining experience for your major. 
There will also be a collage of graduate advisors from var­ious universities who will introduce themselves and give attendees helpful advice with applications and other impor­tant decisions regarding grad-
Jlt.. "'. 
uate schooL 
"This will help the juniors and seniors crystallize their thoughts about grad school.'' said Pendley. 
"Graduate school gets you into a very narrow discipline," said Connolly. "An additional expertise gives you a more mature understanding. Thirty years ago it was unusual for pnople to go to college, howev­er now a lot of students go to collegP, and what sets you apart is grad schooL" 
Ultimately, the goal of this night is to help the upperclass­men considering graduate school make some decisions, as well as to hear an experi­enced panel give advice. 

.a._ r  #  .. ~'­ f!J. W  
.._..·  Jl_.· . .f..,;e,s ~­J'  O~JdOS ~  0  
,  11  ;  t.l.  "''~  • M  
I'  
-.. ..  
ll  1((..,-.. ti ':7"  •·.#'  E  
N  
'S  
s  
0  
c  
c  
\  , ....  """•iif  E  
lall.-631­ or  o~'staff I  

student discounted rate. R 

GW STUDY ABROAD PROGRAM 
EXPERIENCE 
SPAIN 
Be a global citizen at GW's Madrid Study Center located at Spain's prestigious Universidad Autonoma. Complement your classroom learning with field trips, excursions and other rich cultural experiences in one of Spain's most exciting cities-Madrid. 
FALL AND SPRING SEMESTERS. 1999 
COURSEWORK IN SPANISH: Language, Culture and Literature 
INTERNSHIPS 
COURSEWORK TAUGHT IN ENGLISH: 
• 
Europe in the 20th Century • Contemporary Spain 

• 
International Marketing • International Economics 


• European-Atlantic Relations 
The 

~ 
CALL 202.994.1649 
or visit our Web site at www.gwu.edu/-s_tudyabr/madrid.htm 

.. 
page 7 

Wednesday, September 23, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

We wanted to get a head start on introducing ourselves at the career fair. 
Industry Day 1998 Career Fair 
Wednesda~Sept23 
10:00 am -4:00 pm Fitzpatrick Hall 

Founded by five college students in 1989, the company 
has grown to more than 500 employees by hiing gradu­
ates from the best schools in the country. We're revolu­
tionizing the way products are bought and sold for 
Fortune 500 companies such as Hewlett-Packard, 
Chrysler, Boeing, AT&T and Ernest and Julio Gallo. 
We are looking for top candidates from around the country to join our re-engineering revolution. Candidates should be extremely aggressive and cre­ative. Strong communication and presentation skills are required along with the desire for continuous devel­opment. We are looking for bright and talented people from varied backgrounds. Only the best need apply. For more information, check out our website at www.trilogy.com. 
For more information about Trilogy or this event, please contact Brian.ward@trilogy.com or call directly at 512.685.3993. 
TRILOGY 

6034 West Courtyard Drive 
Austin, Texas 78730 USA 
t 512.425.3400 f 512.685.3960 e recruiting@trilogy.com 

www. trilogy. com/recruiting 
Trilogy is an equal opportunity employer 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 OB~ERVER ----------------Wednesday, September 23, 1998 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Hearher Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR I leather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR..  .. ........ Michelle Krupa  ADVERTISING MANAGER ............. Kerry McPartlin  
VIEWPOINT EDITOR  ..... Eduardo Llull  AD DESIGN MANAGER..  ..  ........... Breit Huelat  
SPORTS EDITOR .....  ... Kuhleen Lope-z  SYSTEMS MANAGER .....  .... Michael Brouiller  
SCENE EDITORS...  .......Sar.d1 Dylag  CoNTROLLER . . .  . ........... Dave Rogero  

Kristi K1itsch WER ADMINISTRATOR .................jenniter Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ......M. Sh~mnon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pere Cilella PHOTO EDITOR . ............ Kevin Dalum 
The ()hserver is the independent newsp.1per published by rhe smdenrs of the University of Notre Dame du LK and Sainr M;tty's College. Jr does nor nec~sarilr retlen rhe policies of rile aJminisrr.uion ofeicher inscicucion. The news is reponed .1s ar.:r.:ur~rely dnd objer.:rively .1s possible. Unsigned edimrials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe 
Ediror-in-Chief. Mdnd,ging Edimr. Assistdnr Managing Ediror .md dep~nmem edimrs.''CommentMies, letters and columns presenr rh(" views of rhe ~mhors. dnd nor necess.~rily those of The Observer. Viewpoint spat:e is available to all members uf the Norre Dame/Sainr M.~ory's t:onunnnity and ro .til readers. The tree expression of v;trying opinions 
through leners is encour.tged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediwr/Assis[J.Il[ ME 631-4541 ~dvt:nising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 6.~1-5.n.'l SyStems 6.11-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Sainr Mary's 6.11-4540 Viewpuim E-Mail Viewpoint. J@nd.edu D01y Ediror/Viewpoim 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Otllce Manager/Gener0111nl(Hmation 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
.liFE AT ND 
American Diversity Dilemma 
In his 1903 classic, "The Souls of Black Folk." W.E.B. Dubois wrote this of the "double consciousness" experienced by American "Negroes": "One ever feels his two-ness-an American. a Negro; two 
Mel Tardy 

souls. two thoughts, two unreconciled strings; two warring ideals in one body, whose dogged strength alone keeps it from being torn asunder." 
Inevitably, during discussions on diver­sity or racism, someone will insist that in America. we should no longer refer to ourselves as White. Black. Asian, etc. We should all just be "American." It sounds like a grand ideal, and I agree to it in part. but let's hold on the fife and drum for a second until we answer this ques­tion: What do they mean by "American?" 
Certainly. we use cliches to describe "America" all the time. We have the "All American" boy or girl next door, but don't they ever live in Chinatown? We say some things are "as American as Mom and apple pie." but what if my mom's pies are sweet potato? When we talk about American spirit and ingenuity, do we more easily conjure up Daniel Boone or I Iarriet Tubman?' H'ow about Jaime Escalante? 
People of color have tried for years to just be "American." The problem has not been with us. it's been with America ... or rather. America's dominant Caucasian culture. They wouldn't allow us to own Amerkan land. attend American schools, tight in American wars or even eat the Americ~an apple pies our mom's cooked fortheir mom's children. 
Whites often have no problem subju­gating their predominant racial or ethnic identities under the rubric of "American," perhaps because, as evi­denced above. the term "American" has become synonymous with "white American." A list of rights and privileges associated with being "White" in America would be no different than those associ­ated with being American. A similar list for dark-skinned people in Amt!rica just wouldn't find the same degree of corrob­oration. 
Another reason may be that the ances­tors of most Euro-Americans, who will­ingly entered America via colonial ports or Ellis Island. underwent some "rite of pass&ge" (ratification of US constitution. immigration process) after which the title "American," was officially conferred upon them. From that moment on, they and there descendants KNEW they were Americans. No such definitive "rite of passage" existed for the descendants of African slaves nor the Native American and Hispanic victims of westward expan­sion. We arrived like bastardy children, and while America has come to live with our existence, we've never been officially welcomed into the family. 
In a nation which. despite having had diversity intricately woven by God into its history since inception. still practices extreme ethnoeentricism. we people of color must be careful in how we define ourselves, and must be vigilant about NOT allowing others -particularly the dominant culture -to define us. 
I prefer to be called an African American, instead of simply American. for two reasons, 1) it reminds me that my roots run primarily through America and Africa, for which I can be proud of on both fronts, and 2) it prevents me and my children from being confused when we ARE treated unfairly. solely due to our African traits. which we cannot (nor want to) hide. 
I will not allow my children to define themselves as "Black," because, like its predecessor terms, "Negro" and "Colored," it tells them absolutely noth­ing about their rich, African heritage. 
Certainly, "Black" has its political impor­tance in America, originating as a cata­lyst around which the 1960's revolution crystalized a power movement for African descendants in America. Nevertheless. similar to. say, Irish Americans, I simply believe my roots are deeper than American shores. It was true in 1903. It will still be reality in 2003. 
When I am grounded by my roots. I am less likely to forget my heritage or be hoodwinked. No one can parade out a narrow, glorified history of WASPS and 
W
HO WOULDN'T 
APPRECIATE HAVING 
"ONE NATION, UNDER Goo, 
INDIVISIBLE, WITH LIBERTY 
AND JUSTICE FOR ALL?" MY 
SINGING A WARM RENDITION 
OF "AMERICA THE 
BEAUTIFUL," HOWEVER, 
WOULDN'T KEEP THE KLAN 
FROM RALLYING IN 
KALAMAZOO, MICH. 
kill my self esteem by telling me that this. alone. is "American history." No one ean project upon me their own distorted view that Africans are, and always have been, barbarians. No one can fool me into thinking the playing field in America is now magically equal for all people when I know it's been barely a generation since my people were allowed to vote and attend college in America. . 
Now. don't get me wrong. Just because America hasn't always treated me and mine like Americans doesn't mean I am NOT American, or proud to BE American. I believe in many of the ideals to whieh America aspires. Who wouldn't appreeiate having "one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all?" My singing a warm rendition of "America the Beautiful." however, wouldn't keep the Klan from rallying in Kalamazoo, MI. 

To reach such ideals·. we must changt~ how people -particularly Americans ­view Amerka. It's not enough to say that people of color should fall under the catch-all term. "American." if by that they mean subjugating oneself to the dominant culture. That would not relieve racial tension nor eradicate vnstiges of institutional racism. such as Corporate glass ceilings or the unfairly high propor­tions of African Americans placed on Death Row. It wouldn't help my daughtnr develop strong self esteem. We nmld to change our image of "American" before offering this as a"solution." 
We must become a nation that does not try to hide diversity. as if that would tear us apart, but rather celebrates diversity in order to bring us together. Look at our fifty star llag, which professes strength in a union of distinct. equal entities. Marvel that we arc the only nation at thn Olyn1pies for which people must look pri­marily at the uniforms of participants. rather than rac~e or ethnicity, before guessing nationality. Clearly. diversity is. and always has been. America's grcatnst and most recognizable attribute. 
What we don't share, in tnrms of tradi­tion and history, we still sharr. in terms of' mutual destiny. Surely, we must aspim to the vision of America, riding the wings of common expr.rience, but wr. shouldn't abandon the richness of our heritages, upon whose diversity and rnsourcc Wll derive our strength as a nation. 
... Now. gently whisper to the fife and d~um, "That's your cue!" 
Mel Tardy ND '86, '90 is the Assistant Professional Specialist al the First Year ofStudies. !lis column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• 000NESBIJ!W 
MII<!M,INC POES175 OF COIJR51;, RAMPINGIJP 
~YMATH. 
Accet..ei?ATCJ/aJR 8{JRN RATE. C0575ARe CUT­
SOHOW'F<E ~ON­
S77?/PPING ReV&NUC3 eYPJ& IXJING r UN& SA/.&9 
OVeR.~37,CWA If/tiel<!
I A/?13 5Tl?AlJY.. 
\ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
AMAZ/N6... CWL..Y 18 MONT16 IN 8/JSIN£93, ANlJaR IN­v&:ST~ AReAtREA17'1INlH/3 
HaeA/.MOGT~2 MIUION/ 
~/fT'??7; 
¥~~ ~-" 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'Nothing ever tasted any 
better than a cold 

beer on a beautiful after­
noon with nothing to look 
foward to but more of the 
same." 
-Hugh Hood 
'' 
VIEWPOINT 

-Wednesday, Seprembcr 23, 1998 ----------------os~ERVER page 9 
• AWAKENINGS 
Congress Versus the Presidency 

Professor of(;ovnmmmll John Hoos, whose pri­mary rosoan·h arna is lhn US Congrnss, has sug­gostNI that tlwre are two rules of Congressional pownr. The first is that Congress varies over time and spaco. Tlw sncond is that this variation is sonwtinws systornatir. This is also tnw of the rnla 
================ lion­
ship 
J.P. Cooney 

lwtwnnn Congn~ss and tho President. These two branclws have rPmainnd separate throughout our country's history, but tlwy c~nrtainly have not n~maitwd <>quaL 1\t eritieal junctures in 1\morican history, orw has risen to the preeminent position in i\nwt·iran govnrnnwnt. while the other's relevance is marginaliwd and its inllunnee clirnin­ishod. 
Throughout tlw I1Jth century, tho halanen of power romainod lwavily in favor ol' ( :ongrnss. l.incoln was tlw first !'resident to pnnnl.ratn ( :ongrnssiorwl HU tltority, SIH'COSS­J'ully usurping Congn•ss' war pownr in IPading tlll! war l'fli>rt to prt~snrvc~ tlw Union. But Congress did not allow its power tc IJI' lrtlllllll!d dirnr.tly thnrc~­af'IPr, as it rc•huked tlw authority of l.inr.oht 's sw:cnssor. Tlwy IHtssnd two ads Ihal Pliminatnd his pro­su pposnd roll' in Hnronstnu:tion, and subsn­qw•ntly impnadwd him for fir­ing tlw War Sorrntary without SPnatt> approvaL Though Johnson was not artually rnmowd from olliw by the SPnatP. his pn~sidenry was in n('fpet over. Congress rc~igned suprc•nw. 
It was not until tlw l'rogn~ssiw Era that thn notion ol' l'wsidPntial Lnadc>rship developed. TB was tlw first l'rnsidc~ntto impose his will on Congrc~ss through usn of thn bully pulpit-hn wagPd war against monopolistic power in the arc~na of public opinion. Wilson. who follownd TB ami had ironically written a tract on Amnriean gowrnnwnt in I HH!i nntitlnd Congressional (;ovprnnwnt. contradictnd that notion by extending llw legislal.iw lnadnrship of the ollicn even furthnr 
sonw r.onsidnrml him morn like a prime minis­tnr than a l'rc~sidcmt. Upon lnaving ofliee in 1920 lw had tlw most nxpansivn legislalivn rncord of any l'rPsidPnt and had nstablislwd thn tradition of dctlivPring a Stat(~ of llw Union addrHss. The l'rc•sidCtncy had nnc:roadwd upon Congress' sovnr­Pign ICtgislativCt function. 
So it is not surprising that tlw 1\mnriean peopln c>IPrtPd FI>B in 1'>32, who promised to single­handPdly put an nnd to tlw Grnat Depression. FDH stnam-1'011('(1 tlw lngislativn branch. utilizing an nxpansivn brain trust that designnd and imple­nwntnd thn Nnw Dnal. Congress served only to rat­ify Fllll's initiativns with littln substantive debatn. Mornovc~r. Fl>l{. likn Lim:oln. din~etnd 1\meriea's nfl'orl.s in WWII and dictatml whnn wn would entor. dospitn thn Constitution's nxplieit assignment of the war pownr to Congn~ss. Bntwnnn the New Deal and WatnrgatP, l'rosidnntiaf pownr inereasnd­Congrc~ss snrvnd only to lngitimatn the President as the country's lngislalivn. cultural and practieal lnadnr. FI>B was our first "Imperial President." 
Watnrgatn dealt the Imperial President a severe blow, hownvnr. In 1974 the American people sent a clc•ar messago that the Presidency had grown too strong by docting a large reform-minded freshmen elass. In the years following Nixon's resignation, the balance of power shifted back towards Congress as it took action to constrain presidential strength. It created the Congressional Budget Office. asserted the legislative veto, and passed the War Powers Resolution and the now infamous Independent Counsel Act. Each of these weakened the Presidency and bolstered Congress. Though the Presidency remains at the center of American polities, the balance of power has increasingly shiftml to Congress in the past 25 years. 
So then, what impact will the Lewinsky scandal have on the balance of legislative and executive power. As the !louse inevitably continues towards impeachment proceedings, and Clinton's moral and legislative legitimacy is diminished, it seems logical that another lasting shill in the balance of power will result. Clinton is certain to at least be censured, if not impeached and convicted or com­pelled to resign. One way or the other, Congress will assert some form of authority over the Presidency; the Executive will inevitably cower to the Legislature. But in the age of media-hype, focus groups and politieal spin, Congres.s is not 
necessarily guaranteed a lasting shift of power. IIow the legislature conducts itself in the next few months, and how the President's successor approaches the post­Clinton context, will be determining factors in the relationship between 
Congress, the Presidency and power 
for a long time to come. 
The re&son for this is that, unlike 
in power, either institu­tion is necessarily the logical reformer. During Heconstruction, only Congress had the leg­islative authority to mend the nation. During the Progressive Era the country looked 
to TH because the Congress had refused to lead rnform. During the Depression and WWII, Congress was incapable of expedient crisis response. Finally, during Watergate, only a fresh­faced Congress could cleanse a corrupted politieal order. But both Congress and the Presidency are institutionally constrained and morally question­able at this juncture. ThH American people are abhorred by the moral-failings of Clinton, but fault the Independent Counsel and a partisan Congress for dragging the country through the mud. 
Unlike previous critical periods, both institutions have the opportunity to seize the advantage in the long-term power scramble. For Congress, the key is nrasing the perception of partisanship and strict­ly adhering to the impeachment process outlined in the Constitution. They must cease hearing this case in the court of public opinion and fuHill their duty to evaluate the conduct of the President against the provisions of Article II and The Federalist. For the Presidency, the key is strong moral leadership that sheds clarity on these desta­bilizing events. This is leadership that Clinton is incapable of oiTering-it falls to his successor and may serve as the centerpiece of the 2000 election. America's politicians, in other words, have a responsibility to look beyond their partisan bicker­Ing, and consider the wider ramifications of their actions on our Constitutional arrangements and the Congressional-Presidential relationship. 
J.P. Cooney is a senior government and econom­ics major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached via e-mail at Cooney. 6@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Goo 'N liFE 

Religious and Lay Persons Standing together for God's Word 
In his book Labors from the Heart (University of Notre Dame Press, 1996), Mark Poorman, C.S.C., writes how the Master of Divinity program which he directs at Notre Dame 
=!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ prepares pnople for ministry in the Church. This train­ing used to be
Jull•e A 
• offered solely to 
seminarians. 1\fter 
Vatican II, the pro­
gram was opened to

Ferraro 
the laity. Now, the 

______:========-----participants number
-7 5 percent lay peo­ple and only 25 per­cent seminarians. 
As more and more Jay people are assuming pivotal roles in Church ministry, the trend remains that they are "second class citizens" in some ways. Long-held traditions of priests being in charge of a parish or, at least. a member of a reli­gious congregation acting as pastoral associate, are fading. And rightly so. Clergy and religious are not the only onHs who can spread God's word to others. 
The shift away from certain ministries being open only to ordained or vowed Church representatives began when lay teachers took p,ositions in Catholic elementary and high schools. For the first few years, a Sister or priest still came in to teach the youngsters religion, but eventually it was seen that lay people understood their faith in as good (if not bet­ter) light than the religious. The lay people were required, by their very lifestyle, to. apply Christ's example JQ the tasks of raising children,, paying the rent, driving. on ~ro.w.ded· high­ways -experiences religious or priests hadn't faced too often. 
Regardless of this practical approach to religion. and col­lege degrees to make them excellent in the classroom, lay teachers were expected to accept low wages for their efforts. They were treated like "substitutes," to train the children until such time as the vocation crisis passed and the religious communities. again overflowed with men and womnn nager to profess their vows. 
Unfortunately, this did not happen. Heligious vocation­wise, there is still a crisis. Congregations have had to consol­idate, or have gone out of existence entirely. /\II the while. Jay people are taking up the slack. 
Pope John Paul II has written on numerous occasions that -through their common baptism -Jay peopln and n~ligious equally share the responsibility of living and spreading God's Word. Yes, there is a value to each state of Jil'e. but one is not "better" than the other, as has been thought through attitude and behavior these many years. A retired widow teaching religious education classes on Sunday morning is just as loved by God and just as holy as the Prioress of a con­templative community. Both are doing God's will in their Jives, which is the key to all holiness. 
A key element to remedying this subconseiously "unequal" status comes in the form of assoeiations that arc cropping up more and more between religious congrn·gations and lay peo­ple. Through meetings, sharing work and praying togntlwr, the two groups can Jearn about each other's struggles and joys, lifestyle and faith. 
Larger religious "families" have known the value of such associations for centuries -the Benedictines, Franciscans, Dominicans, Carmelites, ,etc. Lay people saw the benefits t.o the particular "charism" of a congregation-its spirit, so to speak -and wanted to be part of it. Some, granted, wantnd to abandon their lay vocation and "play at" being religious by wearing a habit and such, but in modern times this is less of a concern. Now, both religious and lay people see that they can be of benefit to each other, and come together on common ground to experience and grow in tho faith. 
By this strengthening of both religious life and the lay vocation, it is possible to see that Mrs. Smith, with her theol­ogy degree, is just as capable of being a hospital chaplain as Fr. John. Sister Jane and Mr. Jones can share the task of religious education director, since both are fully trainnd. It is not only the training, however, that plays a role, it is the mutual respect to be afforded both religious and Jay person, by each other and by those they serve, because they stand side by side as equal partners in doing God's work. 
Julie A. Ferraro is the local sales representative for Faith wear, and is executive director of The Pit Troupe the­atre company. Her column runs every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
'-•..,., .& .... ; •-.'!'IY-W •"' .t)" _. :o-_..6-·: _..,.· ..."ii-.......~_. 
• • i. t 


-~ ~ -~­
I' 

page 10 ---------~----Wednesday, September 23, 1998 

Hootie and The Blowfish 
Musical Chairs 
Atlantic Records 
* 112 (best out of five) 
A 
fter selling roughly 300 billion copies of the catchy Cracked Rear View, 1-Iootie and the Blowfish came back to reality with their mediocre second album Fairweather Johnson. The boys are back again trying to get redemption with their new album entitled Musical Chairs. The results from this new album are very forgettable. 
Right from the start the listener is assaulted with the quintessential Bootie song: A depressing guitar intro followed by lead singer Darius Rucker singing about a girl he really liked that has just left town. He's really sad. Then the entire band kicks in singing a hopeful chorus that makes you feel warm all over. This process is repeat­ed about two or three times for the remainder of the song, and shows up on the rest of the album. This familiarity brings down much of Musical Chairs. Songs such as "Wishing" and "Answer Man" start to become indistinguishable from each other, with Rucker's lyrics showing resemblance to the song before and Mark Bryan play­ing the same boring guitar solo that you swore was on Fairweather Johnson. 
Sometimes it seems as if the band is just trying too hard. The closing track called "What Do You Want From Me Now," starts off with some great music and is high­lighted by a couple of beautiful female back up vocals. Just when it seemed safe to sit back and relax, Darius Rucker starts whining again about all the pain he has to go through. By the end of the track, the listener has a nagging urge to find Mr. Rucker in a back alley and beat the living crap out of him. I'm sorry I have to be so harsh. 


Photo courtesy of Atlantic Records 
Of course, there are a few bright spots on Musical Chairs. The album boasts a handful of accomplished guest musicians that' lend their talents to Bootie. A string arrangement graces the moving "Only Lonely," and an accordion adds flavor to the otherwise dull "Las Vegas Nights." Boyd Tinsley and Leroi Moore of the Dave Matthews Band even show up on the album. Tinsley provides some musical color on the country-inspired "Desert Mountain Showdown," and Moore plays soprano and alto sax on probably the strongest track called "What's Going On Here." 
It's tough being at the top, and Hootie and the Blowfish know this fact all too well. It's hard going from pop/rock brilliance to elevator music. I give them credit because they have always stated that they're just a bunch of average guys that hap­pen to play in a rock and roll band. They didn't ask for all this attention, they just wanted to jam and have fun. That was some of their early appeal -they were average guys. But what seemed to be their advantage is now their hindrance. They are a bunch of average guys that make very average music. When it's time for some fun party games, don't take any part in Musical Chairs. 
Geo.!JRahie 

Photo courtesy of Geffen Records 
F
our years ago, Hole released Live Through This, a breakthrough album embodying the anger and insecurities of women. Critics lauded it and SPIN magazine named it "Album of the Year." Lead singer and notorious publicity puppet Courtney Love growled each lyric with confrontational aplomb. It was grungy, raw, and punk, and it made your ears bleed. 
So when sessions for Hole's follow up, Celebrity Skin, began last year; fans thought that Love would dump the Versace gowns and return to her journalist­decking, lipstick-smeared rock star self. Back to being the violent, entertaining widow Cobain. 
But don't expect this album to be another Live Through This. When Celebrity Skin was released last week, radio listeners heard Hole ditch alternate guitar tunings in favor of bouncy harmonies and, get this, tambourines on half the songs. Tambourines? This is Hole? 
The band embraces melodic pop for their fourth record. According to I.ove, "We set out to redefine the California sound." They succeeded; Hole is now all things LA. Lyrics about the fickleness of fame and the seediness of a plastic lifestyle permeate the CD. I wanted Live Through This, but Hole gave me something better. 
The title track is straightforward '70s power rock. Lead guitarist (and possibly only guitarist; have you ever seen Love really play?) Eric Erlandson collaborated with Smashing Pumpkins frontman Billy Corgan on the crunchy opening riff. Corgan was initially hired to produce, but 12 days with Love was enough for him and he left the project. Nevertheless, Corgan's influence lAces the album, especially on this track. 
Celebrity Skin contains a number of standouts. "Awful" is jangly, sing-a-long pop ironically about the naivete of women and the Hollywood culture that devours them. "Dying" begins as a quiet plea for escape, and a pretty melody slowly evolves. The 
Hole 

Celebrity Skin 
Geffen Records 
**** (best out of five) 
only song that doesn't belong is "Northern Star," which wanted to be written by Fleetwood Mac. A song about the Northwest doesn't fit the Southern California cul­ture theme. 
Has Hole forgotten Seattle? No, Celebrity Skin has loud moments. "Use Once & Destroy" contains searing guitars melded with synthesized dots. "Reasons to be Beautiful" is arguably the best song on the CD. Hole blends their newfound softer 
' style with their hard-edged past. Love even lets growling vocals go during the cho­rus. Still, Hole's new direction is evident because hooks and radio-friendly material are underneath the rock songs. Love's vocals have improved. Her sense of harmony is better and she wrote pow­erful, expressive lyrics. But don't look for Kurt clues since she wants to move on. Love allegedly blew in and out of recording sessions like a house call from the Cat in the Hat, relying heavily on her bandmates. Erlandson turns in his usual good work here. Bassist Melissa Auf der Maur's background vocals enhanced this record and she has excellent rhythm. Drummer Patty Schemel isn't used effectively. Unhappy with Hole's progression, Schemel recently decided to quit, which is truly unfortu­nate. Celebrity Skin is a refreshing change for Hole. It's the CD to have when you want to sing in your car or make the transformation from bad girl to glam movie queen, eh, Courtney? 
Georgette Leonard 
I I' I' 



Rancid 
Life Won't Wait 
J:1~pitaph Records 
*** 112 (best out of fh·e) 
M 
any have said that punk is dead; that the rebellious, anarchist spirit of the late '70s and '80s has been dissolved by the MTV-brand commercialism of conformity. And when bands such as The Offspring leave smaller independent labels and move to larger ones, and bands like Green Day become "musically mature" and add cellos to their songs one can easily make a case that the "Anarchy Now" spirit of punk is long gone. 
Be that as it may, some bands undeniably trek on in the original spirit of punk, that spirit whieh inspires some and more often annoys others to the point of demanding that said inspired soul turn that tripe down. Such a band is Rancid. And such an album is their latest: Life Won't Wait. 
One of the most influential hand in the modern punk scene, several of its members sprang from the elassic punk ska band Operation Ivy. This fabled band is still a frequent target of cover songs by cheap garage punk bands throughout America. After its break up, one of the members of Op Ivy disappeared to Nicaragua. Meanwhile, Tim Armstrong and Matt Freeman went on to start the band Dance Hall Crashers and play a part in other groups such as Big Rig, Downfall and Gr'ups before forming Hancid. 
Staying true to their punk!ska roots, Hancid's album also includes some more varied influences while adhering to its core goal: music that scares cats, sparks mushing and even makes conserva­tives search for a molotov cocktail with which to fight the Man. 
The first surprise of the album is the stronger influence of old school ska. The slower, more reggae-like beat, along with a more syncopated sound, more rhythmic lyrics and a few Jamacian sounding backup singers combine with Rancid's standard sound for some interesting effects on ''Life Won't Wait," "Crane Fist," "Wrongful Suspicion" and "Coppers." Though this blend is generally good, the meshing is not complete and the two styles do not yet fully complement each other. 

Another more masked surprise is a detnctable blues/jazz influence. Though years of loud music: have killed off most of my aura nerves, even I was tipped off by the harmonica that something was afoot. This intriguing strain mm~rges in the beginning of the album for the introductory voice-over, but also pops up in the opening of "Backslide" and throughout "Cocktails". 
But many more of the songs will be more famil­iar to the Hancid listener. Track 4, "Black Lung" renews the classic punk theme "don't work your life away." "Cash, Culture and Violence" decries the corrupt nature of society. "Liecester Square" and "The Wolf" are recognizable as straight punk rock in thn best Rancid fashion. Also, the more melancholy side of Hancid shows through on a few of their songs. The sparse use of a street organ in a few of thnse songs and the pained, drawn out lyrics and vocals make the lis­tener feel all the pain that the distraught punker on the cover of their previous album And Out Come The Wolves conveys. "Corazon de Oro" especially is reminiscent of the sorrowful "Journey to The End' off of the previous album while "Hoover Street" and the initial chords of "Lady Liberty" are similar to "Old Friend." 
Arun Rodrigues 
Scene reviewer Arun Rodrigues is on the air· waves ,.hursday nights from 12·2 a.m. on WSND 88.9. 
I
t is amazing what orw catchy tunn can do for a rnally nwdiotTe alternative band, although tht• tt•rm ml'diorrn might be a Lad kind for llarvny l>angl'r. That mw catchy tunn you havl' ht•ard on lht• local top 40 station is "Fiagpolt• Sitta," and has 1~arned thn hand appt•ararH"I'S on I.Pttt•rman and MTV's "120 Minutt•s." Thl' band is rurrnntly touring tho rountry likl' rrazy trying to milk tlw last f<~W snc­onds or ranll' from tlwir random little hit beforn it and tlwy fade away into music obscurity likn so many othnr orw hit wondnrs. 
lll'i·on• I gnt too rwgativn, lnt mn say that this hand is not all had. Tlw lnad sing<~r. Sean Nl'lson, has as dnrnnt a pop-altl'rnative voicn as anybody Plsn. Tlw guitarist and bass player, .lefT l.in and Aaron lluiTrnan, an· both ratlwr compe­l.t'lll. Tlu~ drulllllll~r. !•:van Suit. fills out the band nirl'ly. 
Nurw of tlwm is a poor musir.ian, and I would Ill' willing to bnt that tlll'y would lw a prntty good t"oVPr band, hut till' fad is that they are horribll' al sorrg writing. Surn, "lilagpoln Sitta" is on tlw radio nvnry 15 minutes and middln-schoolt\rs arross tlw country havl' fallen in lovn with tlw song, hut it gPls really annoying awfully quiek. 
Till' n~rnaindnr of the album is a hodgnpodgn mix of random junk. NPitlwr tlw album nor the songs fit togdlwr. Both t"low from ncstatic to angst-ridden, whisper to srream for no obvious n•ason. 
Tht• random lyrics whirh are catchy in ''filagpole Sitta" fail to grab thn listener's attnn­tion anyplace nlsn with tlwir disjointed tlwnws and phrasns. Tlw guitar breaks !"rom soft harmo­ny into driving solos at urwxtwct<~d times. To makn things worse tlw solos are horrible pieces that ran only b1~ dt~scribnd as "guitar solos for llw sak1~ of having guitar solos." 
"Old llat," for examplt~. starts out with a horri­ble distorllld guitar· intro before settling into a deennt little pop melody. But as soon as the cho­rus arrives, thny jump in again with distorted guitars before llying into one of the worst guitar solos I've heard since the '80s. llad they just stuck with the contra! pop melody that works, "Old IIat" would have been a decent song except for idiotie lyrics once again. 
Ovnrall, Where 1/QII(' All the Merrymakers Gone? seemed to be very a dnliberate album from a quartet or talented guys who are just try­ing way too hard to be what they think they should. The album, and all the songs with thn exception of "Flagpole Sitta" fails to captme any soul. As a result listennrs have nothing to hold on to except a popular top-40 hit that has benn so overplayed that most ~wople change the station as soon as they hnar it. I feel fairly certain that once llarvey Danger's 15 minutns of fame are up, tlwy will assume their rightful place in musie history next to Jimmy Hay and Primitive Hadio Gods. 
Rick Silvestrini 
,.une in to hear more from Scene reviewer Rick Silveslrini on Sundays from midnight unlil 2 a.m. on WSND 88.9 P.M. 


r~~-~  -----~--·-------~~~­-~--­ ______  
.  '  . '' 1-I 'YOf(l  I 'I' I  '"  onn'  t"r  .r  I  "TT  
page 12  The Observer· SPORTS  Wednesday, September 23, 1998  

,___ 


• MAJtW lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Alumni, Siegfried open strong Canseco hits for his best 
Observer Statf Repon Bartlett expressed his prid~ in a defense that 
Associated Press the left-field wall head first 
forced three fumbles. 
while attempting to make a

Alumni 7, Morrissey 0 "We know that one loss will not keep us out TORONTO play on the ball. Greene col­
Scoring on the opening drive of the game, the of the playoffs," said Bartlett, "but realistically Jose Canseco set a new lapsed to the ground and laid Alumni Dawgs shut out Morrissey 7-0 Sunday we must show better effort over the next three career high with his 45th and motionless as Fernandez cir­in an interhall football match-up of two South games." 46th home runs, as the Toronto cled the bases. 
Quad dorms. Blue Jays beat the Baltimore The game was delayed for 14 
To kick off the first quarter, the Dawgs Siegfried 8, O'Neill 0 Orioles 7-3 Tuesday night. minutes as medical personnelmarched down the field behind the dominant Toronto remained 3 1/2 tended to Greene. He eventual­

running performance of Tom Dietrich. Siegfried won bragging rights in this year's games behind Boston in the AL ly sat up before being carted 
The scoring drive was capped off by a 10-clash between the Siegfried Ramblers and the wild-card race, as the Red Sox off the linld on a stretcher. yard touchdown pass from quarterback Alex O'Neill Angry Mob by virtue of an 8-0 interhall beat Tampa. Bay 11-2. The Grenne was taken to a Gese to Mike Defonso. football victory. Blue Jays have four games left Toronto hospital, where he was
These were all the points Alumni would need Freshman tailback Travis Smith drew first and Boston has five. 
diagnosed with a mild concus­to claim victory. blood for the Ramblers with a 40-yard touch­Canseco surpassed his previ­sion. lie has shoulder stiffnessSoon after, a heavy downpour began, and down run. 

ous career best of 44 in 1991 and is day-to-day.with it went the error-free play. A pass from quarterback Rob Plumby to when he hit a two-run homer 
Craig Grebeck's two-run 

After the storm started, the two teams pro­senior tight end Mike Hernandez was good for in the first. Canseco's 428-foot double in the sixth gaveduced a total of three fumbles, two intercep­the two-point conversion, giving the Ramblers shot in the seventh bounced off' 
Toronto a 5-3 lead. tions and no points. an 8-0 lead. a SkyDome restaurant in cen­Members of the two teams downplayed the Siegfried's defense was also a key factor in 
ter field. Chicago 4, Minnesota 1 effects the downpour had on the game's out­the win, most notably the two interceptions by Canseco, 34, has five multi­James Baldwin came within 
come. free safety Pete Aguiar. 
homer games this season and three outs of his first career"Although the rain had an effect," said "By shutting them down on defense, we made 32 in his career. 
shutout and the Chicago WhiteAlumni captain Jason Malartsik, "it was our a statement to the rest of the league that we 

Toronto's Chris Carpenter Sox won their fifth straight
offensive line [that] just took over the game. A will be contenders," said captain James Bordas. (12-7) improved to 6-1 over his game. 4-1 over the Minnesotagritty offense, coupled with a defensive war, Although O'Neill played a strong defensive last nine starts. The 23-year­
Twins on Tuesday night.

made the game a battle of the trenches." game, its failure to capitalize on offense ulti-old gav.e up three runs, two Baldwin {12-6) allowed onlyDespite the loss, Morrissey captain Steve mately kept it from a win. · 
earned, on six hits in eight one runner to second base innings. He struck out four and before he was relieved by Bob walked three. Howry after walking Chris
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 

Orioles starter Mike Mussina Latham leading off the ninth. (13-9) gave up seven earned Baldwin struck out three and runs on eight hits in seven walked one as he won for the
Olerud ties NL record in streak 

innings. He struck out four and fifth time in six starts. David walked three. Ortiz hit an RBI double with
Associated Press then grounded to second base began last Wednesday, Olerud 
After Canseco homered in the two outs ofT Howry.
on the first pitch in the third had six singles, one double, 

NEW YORK inning. two home runs and six walks. first, Eric Davis tied the game Eric Milton (7-14) was nearly John Olerud tied the NL Olerud, who began the night lie also had 13 hits in 14 at-for Baltimore with a two-run as good for the Twins until giv­
double in the thil'd. 

record by reaching base for second in the NL with a .354 ,bats coming into the game. ing up Robin Ventura's two­
Chris Hailes RBI single in the out, two-run double in thethe 15th consecutive time, average, two points behind The major league record is fourth gave the Orioles a 3-2
then fell when short of Ted Colorado's Larry Walker. tied 12, done twice, last in 1952 by eighth. Milton allowed seven Williams' major league mark the record set by Barry Bonds Walt Dropo. lead. hits in eight innings, but he still 
when he grounded out in his on Sept. 4. Olerud is trying to become The Blue Jays tied the game lost his ninth straight decision next at-bat Tuesday night. Williams set the major the first player this century to in the fourth on Tony at home dating to his first start 
Olerud walked in the New Fernandez's inside-the-park of the season on April 5.
league record from Sept. 17-win batting championships in York Mets' first inning against 23, 1957. both major leagues. home run. Baltimore left field­The loss was the 12th in 13 
Montreal's Mike Thurman, During the streak, which er Willie Greene crashed into games for Minnesota. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 . S0u~h Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day .dassi­
Classifieds 

fieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
GRANGER. 277-9969.  WANTED!  
NOTICES  ADOPTION IS LOVE  TICKETMART Inc BUY ·SELL-TRADE  Purdue Ticket 4-1067  Dong, where is my automobile?  
Happily married ND Alumni cou­ Notre Dame Football Tickets  
THE COPY SHOP  ple,with adopted 3 year old daugh­ 258·1111  Need 1 Stanford tic.  WELCOME FRESHMAN KATIE  
LaFortune Student Center  ter. wants to shower a new baby  No student tickets please  x0759  BARKLEY  Dong, grandpa is talking to you!  
We're Open A Lot!!!  with love.Artistic f~ll-time mom,ath·  
Mon·Thur: 7:30am· Midnight  letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play  $6 Haircuts  
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm  with. Friends on the swingset,trips to  FOR SALE  SELLING TWO GA's TO  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm  the zoo,grandma. play groups,lulla­ FOOTBALL TICKETS  PURDUE & STANFORD  1523 Lincolnway West  automobile? lake! big lake'  
Sun: Noon -Midnight  bies,too.This is a home where wish­ 271·9412  243-2770  Closed Sun & Wed  
When you need copies,  es come true. We'd like to call to get  
we're open!  to know you.Call Shawn & Meg  WANTED  Purdue GA for sale  M-T-Th-Fr-8-4  who'd marry you?  
800-767­ ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  4-1896  SatB-3  \  
4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp.  271-1526  
Early Spring Break  paid.  ..ATIENTION LESBIAN, GAY,  Mr. T  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  ND Ftbl. tix  I need 1 Baylor ticket. My number  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  BUY·SELL  is 219·634-1651.  STUDENTS.. Original student  Oh, I want to go home.. ---­ 
Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  FOR RENT  674-7645  group will hold its first SUPPORT group meeting tomorrow 9/24. Call  hey michelle, i told you i'd write you  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  Need 4 Stanford tix. call kev@  info line for details. 236·9661  a personal.  
Air, Hotel, Meals &Parties  1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  4.0673  
$339!Panama City Room With  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  674-7645  
Kitchen.? Free Parties  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  guess what?  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  ND Football Tickets Needed.  HAPPY 19th CARO!!!!!!!!  
$149!1998 BBB Award  That Pretty Place, Bed and  AM 232·2378 PM 288-2726  Help! Need one ticket for Stanford.  We love you!  
Winner!springbreaktravel.com  Breakfast Inn has space available  Please call Beth @ 273-9753.  chicken butt.  
1·800·678-6386 "OWN A BMW"  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80· $115,Middlebury.30 miles from  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM 232-2378  Need 2 Purdue Tix Christian @289-7136  ....... ­guess where?  
Earn $$ While you Learn  campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,1-800·  PM 288-2726  Ay, MacFiecknoe...  
-·  247-0736  418-9487.  Need LSU tix  Want to trade 4 Baylor GAs for 4 Purdue GAs x1484  chicken hair.  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  289-2918  Countdown to After the LSAT: 3  
WANTED  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  days ....  guess why?  
Always buying and selling N D foot­ Need 2 pair of tickets for Purdue  
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK...  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  ball tickets. 289-8048  game for family friends. They will  i want a frozen dairy treat.  
"TAKE 2"  info:  pay $50/ticket. 4-4221 (Peter)  chickP.n thigh.  
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15  http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  
SALES and ...EARN $$$$.  219-291-7153.  I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for  Have 2 LSU tix,will trade for 2  dairy queen realls needs to stay  
Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida,  Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby broth­ STANFORD.277-8340  open later.  ATIENTION: This is the nightly  
Padre'Lowest prices! Free  3.4,5 Bdrm Homes. 2 Blks  er and his friend (a prospective). If  installment of a random comment  
Meals, Parties & Drinks.  From Campus. 240-0322  you can help me, please call 4­ Need one GA for my dad who's  directed at our beloved copy editor  
··umited Offer... 1800·426·  0562. Ask for Michelle.  coming all the way from Nebraska  i mean. early-evening frozen dairy  Bill Hart.  
771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  to watch us murder Purdue. Call  treats just don't always do the trick.  
Swig @ 287-7343  
I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" t·  RENT ROOMS 237-1919  Need 2 Stanford GAs  what can I write about bill hart  
shirts for me and my dad. If you sell them or have a few extra, please  5 rooms for rent football  Call Brad x4973  PERSONAL  Callie and Erin: Good Luck in fresh­man class elections!  tonight?  
help me out. Call Michelle at 4·  weekends, located 2 miles off cam­ 
0562.  pus.277-8340  I Need ASU TIX  Relive the memories!! Classic Irish  I need a date for the SYR. I you can  ok, I know.  
243-2934  Games from 1970s and 80s on  help me out call Brian at X2016.  
.. ...:­ MYSTERY SHOPPERS WANTED  FOR SALE  BUYING N.D. TICKETS """""""  VHS Video. Complete network broadcasts, most of excellent quali­ Ask for crazy. I'm cute, I swear.  he is quitting his job because we  
You Dine.. .We Pay  ALL GAMES... 277-1659  ty. Call Tom 410-309-0395;  I no longer need tickets to football  write too many classifieds about  
Professional restaurant experience  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  Email:danyluk@erols.com  games. They were confiscated by  him and drive him insane. Now he'll  
a must.  198 MIN. $20  FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS  the FEDs.  travel with yanni  
Why not enjoy a meal out on  CALL 258·4805  ALL GAMES 272-7233 .......... .  FAX IT FAST!!!  
us?Call PDB Management  Sending & Receiving  
1-888· 7 43· 7999  TICKETS  I need 5 LSU tix. Call Eric x1808.  at THE COPY SHOP  Brian 4-2016 doesn't have any more and neither does the cooler  Check out the dancing fetus on the web page! Also watch disco Mary in  
NANNY FOR WEEKDAY AFTER­ LaFortune Student Center  Brian at 2015.  her retro garb!  
NOONS NEEDED TO WATCH  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
BOY & INFANT GIRL IN  GAMES.272-6306  FAX IT FAST!!!  Good luck on finance and slats!­ 


'' 
pa e 13

Wednesday, September 23, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
a senior residing in Stanford Hall. Pat is
:_majoring in engineering and comes to Notre Dame from ''Clinton, Iowa. Pat has contributed greatly to RecSports lntramurals as an official for baseball, basketball and flag football and has officiated numerous championship games. He has also taken advantage of RecSports programming by participating in baseball, basketball, volleyball and softball. 
'Pat believes that RecSports has provided him with the opportunity to socialize with friends, meet new pectJie and stay fit, all at the same time. 
Recipients receive <I:~ merchandise from the 

~.
"Specializing in Authellfic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
&It-
VARSITY SHOP 
'I"''
R~r~ :, 

"Specializing in Authentic 
www.nd.edu/-recs rt Notre Dame Sportsll'ear" 

Look for this awaru to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <J:~ 
IT'~~..:.~.-.. a • ._ aaz ._
merchandise courtesy of \..&...-~---......-~--.-and the v;ir'ior with two locations in the Joyce Center. The v;ir'i; is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 

_,..,.. 
OPO r ~ r-....( ... ,. ...., ... ~ '.l .J . I ~vl 

page 14 The Observer· SPOR__c_T_S=----­Wednesday, September 23, 1998 
Cade McNown has to be 
• h4AJOR lu~sur. BASf:Bi\U. 
everyone's frontrunner for the
Left Field 
Heisman Award after what he did to Texas. 

Sosa just misses No. 64 in Cubs win 
continued from page 20 
Syracuse's Donovan McNabb Associated Press the NL wild-card spot, snapping Sosa failed to close in onis not far behind him and

• Speaking of doing any­thing, as much as I enjoyed watching her and admired her as a spokeswoman for a gen­eration of athletes, I am all but positive that Florence Griffith-Joyner's death was a result of steroid use. 
That is a message that is twice as vivid today because Mark McGwire, everyone's hero. uses a "legal" steriod that has been banned by everything but major league basebalL 
• A team that should be banned from destroying everything in its sight is col­lege football's UCLA Bruins. 
should have won his home opei'Ier against Tennessee. 
However, his defense failed him and the Orangemen lost 34-33. 
• 
Speaking of Syracuse, its humiliation of Michigan may speak volumes about how good the team is, or how bad the Wolverines are. 

• 
The mere fact that the game occurred speaks vol­umes about Michigan, who could have scheduled easy non-conference games, but instead opened here at Notre Dame and at home against Syracuse. 


Represent Notre Dame as a High School Ambassador 
If you are interested in representing Notre Dame at your high school over fall break, you will need to attend an information session on Wednesday, September 23 at 7:30pm in 155 DeBartolo. 
Questions: E-mail Susan at joyce.2@nd.edu 
Thank you! The Admissions Office 
Un~•U.y luar~ of N&tre ~lame-

Web of Science Trial. .. until Sept 29, 1998!! 
Try out the lSI Citation Indexes on the Web Premier research tool for all disciplines 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibs See "Spotlight" for Web of Science link 


a three-game losing streak with Mark McGwire, holding at 63 MILWAUKEE a 5-2 win over the Milwaukee home runs and leaving him in 
The Chicago Cubs ended their Brewers. an 0-for-21 drought.skid Tuesday night, even Chicago is tied with New Bdore striking out for the though Sammy Sosa couldn't York, which lost to Montreal 5-second time, Sosa hit a tower­stop his slump. 3. The Cubs and Mets each ing shot off Brewers reliever AI 
The Cubs moved into a tie for have four games left. Reyes in the seventh. 
LOCKHEED 


INVITES 
j
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS _, 


TO 
Information Night Wednesday, Sept.23 
6:30 -8:00pm Main Lounge University Club 
Challenging Career Opportunities in Our Many Product Lines for CS/ EE/ ME/ AE/ Physics/ Math/ Business Majors 
PIZZA AND REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED 
visit us at www.lmco.com 

makingthe future brighter... 




everyday! 
Take a look at what we have to offer for your future stit'cess . .Challenging and rewarding Business Management and Technical Opportunities around the world are waiting for you everyday at Procter & Gamble. 
P&G is consistently recognized by Fortune Magazine as one of the most admired corporations in America. Visit us on the world wide web at: 
www.pg.com/careers 

Procter&Gamble 
Notre Dame  
WHAT:  Technology and Engineering at Procter & Gamble Featuring Information Technology, Product Supply and Product Development  
WHEN:  Thursday, September 24, 7:00-8:00 P.M.  
WHERE:  Center Continuing Education, Rooms 110 & 112 Refreshments Provided/Casual Dress All CHEG, ME, CPEG and CS Majors encouraged to attend.  

r-~--~~----------~~~---~--~--~--~--------------~--~--. -----~----~~------------------­
Wednesday, September 23, 1998 

page 15 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
MichiganEvans back in uniform rivalry set
By ADAM KUNKER In that 37-27 loss to Texas, l>.lily Nt·hra,kan (U. Nebraska) Evans sustained a groin injury 
By SHARAT RAJU
that kept him out of' NU's 1996 

Michigan Daily (U. Michigan)
I.INCOLN. Nnb 41-21 Orange Bowl win over A lot happnns in two years. Virginia Tech. 
ANN ARHOH, Mich.
For Nnbraska l'ootball. thorn Two surgeries in 1997 to 
It begins now -Big T<Hlwas a n1~w head roach, new repair musele damage to his 
football.
quartnrhacks and another groin kept him out f'or all of last This week, it's l'inally tirnnnational <·.hampionship. season. 
for smash-mouth, broken-limb,
Though thl' suecosses have Evans' latest mishap was a l'm-gonna-ru n-right-through­
bPPn shining in tlw past two torn left meniscus cartilage in you football. 
ynars, th11n~ has been one his kneo No more silly option offense.
notkPahly absnnt !'actor in the sufTered in fall practiee. It has No more passing on first down.
Cornhusk11r linnup: 1-back kept him out of the Huskers' 
Just hard-nosed gridiron
llPAngPio Evans. first three games of the 1998 aetion.
A lot happnns in two ynars. season. 
And when Michigan and
Hunning hacks in th!) NU "lin's kept a grnat attitude Michigan State square ofT on!-(round rnarhinn eom11 and go, about it." running barks coach 
Saturday, the linemen will be
hut !·:vans waits in tho wings Dav<) Gi llespio said. "lie's significant faetors in dotnrrnin­this wnnk. lin's a running bark always looking forward. I think ing the outcome of tho gamn.
who hasn't playnd in thos<~ two he's going to be rnr~ntally in the 
The Michigan trenchrnnn
y11ars. And Evans is r11ady to go. best shap1~ as he ean be in have been bullied around a lit­Sinn• lw last rarrind a foot­when he gets baek." 
tlr. bit over the past few weeks.
hall in rompntition against Evans said a lot of that men­Injuries have plaguml most of'Toxas in tlw l 1J')(, Big 12 tal prnparodness has come as a the team, but tho most signifi­Championship ganw. NU's last result of support fi·om his team­cant loss for tho running game ­loss. !~vans has slrugghHI with mates and coaches. 
has been the injury to cnnterinjurins that haw k11pt him on "Everybody's been very sup­Steve Hutchinson.
tiH· !-.idPiirws. portive," Evans said. "It makes 
llutehinson's departure loft
"It's lH'Pn dif'findt,' !~vans you feel good whnn you know tlw Wolverines with ilwxpnri­said. "But I think it's somnthing evorybody thinks you're an 
enco at the center spot.
that's important part of the team. 
llutehinson's rnturn to the
rPally madn a man out ol' mn. "I know the world's not over. 
offensive line should help
It's tlw d i ff'i r ul t things that I'm going to get to play foot­The Observer/ Jeff Hsu makn you strongnr." ball." Michigan quarterback Tom Brady will attempt to resurrect his squad 
rebuild what was previously 
Saturday against in-state rival Michigan State. 
LIBRARIES TESTING NEW SERIALS CIRCULATION POLICY 
On August 24, 1998, four of the University Libraries (the Hesburgh, Life Sciences, Chemistry/Physics, and Engineering Libraries1) introduced a new circulation policy for serials. The loan period for all "circulating" periodicals, journals, and serials issued more than once a year was changed from FIVE days to TWO days. Additionally, serials are no longer renewable. Annuals, however, circulate as if they were books unless they are placed on reserve. 
.• ; ..-t" 
This policy has been designed to increase the number of individuals who can use any given periodical volume while allowing individuals to take materials to their offices and homes for overnight reading or convenient photocopying. The new loan period is being tested during the 1998-1999 academic year. 
Background: This policy change was prompted by four studies at the Notre Dame Libraries between 1994­1998. These studies revealed that patrons frequently could not find the serials they needed even though the Library owned them. Mid-semester studies documented the fact that large sequences of serials were charged out and that a high percentage of these serials were not returned until an overdue notice was sent. Additional surveys indicated that most people checked out serials in order to make photocopies --an activity which usually does not require five full days. 
A review of the literature and consultation with peer libraries support a shorter loan period. A review of 13 peer libraries shows that I 0 of them limit serial circulation (from the main library) to one day or less. Related library literature suggests that shortening the loan period increases patron satisfaction by improving the fill rate for users (Buckland, U. of Lancaster, Newhouse, Lexington Public Library). 
Test Period: During 1998-1999, the Library will gather data on serials used by date, subject, and patron status and the number and nature of serial overdues. The Library will also welcome more detailed user input. Please do offer the Library your feedback. Help us to determine the circulation policy which will best meet user needs. 
Comments may be submitted on forms at any library circulation desk or via e-mail at the following address: dietl.l @nd.edu. Phone comments are welcome at 631-7392 (Sue Dietl). Requests for special exceptions should be addressed to the Supervisor of Circulation in the lending library (Hesburgh, Engineering, Chemistry/Physics and Life Sciences). 

1This policy will not affect serials located in non-circulating collections, such as Heshurgh Reference or the Mathematics and Architecture Libraries. 
•• '1_...., ---...... ---------------------------------------................,-·-----":"'-:--------=-----.-.-~-----~-;' (........-.--..~--·-.............A 
considered ono of' tlw top start­ing offensive line units in the eountry. 
But with llutehinson out, the Wolverines had trouble run­ning the ball against Notre Dame and Syracuse. Michigan running backs wnre only ablo to amass 150 yards against the Fighting Irish and 154 against Syracuse. 
But against a smaller Eastern Michigan team. the Wolverines were able to drive the ball up and down tlw field at will, racking up 2:H yards and four rushing touchdowns. 
• Aga,in.sl ~M~cl\igaJl State, advancing the ball on the ground might prove oxtn~mely diflicult. The Spartans boast a strong defensive line anchomd by All-America candidate defensive end Hobaire Smith. The Wolverinns have boPn finding themselves in third­and-long situations quite often. Michigan's offensive play eall­ing generally eonsists of estab­lishing a running game to opnn up the short passing garnr.. II' the running game is doing well, then the Wolverines can control the ball for the majori­ty of the gamo -thanks to the short third down situations that are easior to convert. 
On the other side of thP ball, Michigan defensive linn has ()()en having its probloms, as well. Tho departurn of all­Amorican defensive end Glen Steele may be more significant than thought. 
[ 

Now Go Away!] 
(,/...~~p hchh. <71'~~• ~~vi.c~. Wi.c~ ~o (~. 
Lc~~ $267 P~ sz6g ~$347 ~~ $371 
r:..... ,,.. from lndl1t1apolls. e1ch wry buod on • RT pun::twe.Fa.res do not include axes. which an tot:a1 be<woen $3 and $80. lnt'l Student 10 may be requl~. F-ares .,.. valid lor dopartum in September Jnd are subject to chanp!. Restrictions apply. Cill for our low domesoc fares and fares to other world wide destinations 
Don't forget to order your Eurailpass! 
lr.tw•c•i!111f4mll Travel ~ 
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
1-800-2-COUNCIL 
www.counciltravel.com 
._~

......._.... _,,_....._ ......___...............-....__..........__.......................___ 
----;--­

r -­
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 23, 1998 
-
.--v~~ll0 ({;rrmcihiDm11~ §~Jr\fllct~ 
0

c~rnll~rr ~~~(])o~~®® 
Discernment Sessions 

What's next? Post-graduate service? Graduate school? A job in business? Work with a nvt-for-profit agency? The Center for Social Concerns offers the following sessions to help you discern what path to take. Each session offers you criteria or questions for decision-making and invites you to look cre­atively at what your next step may be. 
How Am I Called To Serve? 
Mary Ann Mueninghof, OP Tuesday, September 29 Center for Social Concerns 5:00-7:30p.m. 
Joy, Growth And Agape: Criteria For .Choosing Between Incompatible Goods 
Michael Himes (via video) Thursday, October 8 Off-campus location to be determined 5:00-7:30p.m. 

Volunteers with the Notre Dame 
Living A Faith To Die For 

Programme in Jamaica 
Mike Baxter, CSC Thursday, November 5 Center for Social Concerns 5:00-7:30p.m. 


-
.­


Information Sessions at the Center for Social Concerns 
L'Arche Workshop September 24 from 4:30-5:30pm 
Apostolic Volunteers October 5 from 5:00-6:00 p.m. or October 5 from 7:00-8:00p.m. 
Inner City Teaching Corps October 6 at 4:30 and 7:30p.m. 
Holy Cross Associates October 6 from 3:00-5:00p.m or October 7 form 3:00-6:00p.m. 
Teach for America • October 8 at 7:00p.m. 
Talking with Parents about Post-Graduation Service November 10 from 5:00-6:00p.m. Please contact Andrea Smith Shappell, Director of Senior Transition Programs at 631­5779 or Shappell.! @nd.edu for more information. Registration for the Discernment Sessions is requested 


---------------~----~----~----~----------~-­ '-~-~--.--; I I I' 1  --,~ ~·~ I I I •  
Wednesday, September 23, 1998  The Observer· SPORTS  page 17  

Interhall 
continued from page 20 
as Ill' quarterback Jenny <:hoi's passes were eonsistnnt­ly balt1~d down or ineomplete. 
Walsh scon~d on its second drivn of the first half. Aftnr losing yardage on a penalty, quartnrback Carolyn l'arnnll eompletc~d a 15-yard touch­down pass to Melissa Beiting. l'arrwll and B1~iting connected again in tho eornnr of the end zono on tho orw-point conver­sion. 
BrePn-l'hillips did cll~mon­stratP a unique strategy on of'f'nnSI~. 
During tlw second half, a Bl' nH:eiVIH' caught the ball and imnwdiately passnd it laterally to anotlwr player. 
Though innovative, the strat1~gy failed to put them in the 1~nd zone and Walsh's touchdown drivP hold up for tlw 7-0 victory. 
"They just played okay," said Walsh lwad coach l>urran Al,~xandl'r. "We just mad1~ a lot of llll'ntal mistakes out tlwrP." 
Lyons 13, Badin 6 

Be a sponsor for RCIA 

Football 
~-­

continued from page 20 
The Spartans' wide receiver exposed Notre Dame's lack of experience in the defensive backfield, which was burned for big plays. 
Among those was the longest pass play ever given up by the Irish. 
"The second thing is we're inexperienced at cornerback, and that may be the seeond most important position in college football," Davie said. "But I do think we're getting better there." 
The defensive backfield will be without the services of safety Benny Guilbeaux, who is out with a leg injury. 
Freshman Donald Dykes was slated to have playing time this weekend against the Boilermakers' aerial assault, but Dykes broke his collar bone and will not be avail­able. 
On the healthy side, safety A'Jani Sanders will return to the lineup this week af't1~r missing the Michigan State game. 
"The third thing is we haven't been productive on the defensive line," Davie said. "But we're working at it and we have a lot of young guys with some ability there." 
One of those young guys is freshman Tony Weaver, who Davie desr.ribed as the most productive and best defensive lineman thus far. 
Last season Notre Dame, after a thrilling opening win over Georgia Tech, suffered an upset to Purdue that kicked off a four-game losing streak. 
But this past week gave the coaching staff time to case Tony Driver into Guilbeaux's position. ' 
While Davie and Co. had time to worry about their own squad last week, this week Joe Tiller's fast-break. "bas­ketball on grass" offense pro­vided the greatest concern. 
"It's a big challenge for us," he said. ''I'm really impressed with the job they've done. They're a confident football team. You can see their conli­dcnce because they make plays both offensively and defensively. 
"The challenge for us is to bounce back and play bettor," Davie said. 
"We're l-1, we've played two good teams. I said before the season that regardless or what happened the first two games, I expeet1~d this foot­ball team to make st1~ady progress because we have some young play1~rs at key positions." 
Apart from the seore, one of the most surprising things about the Michigan State 
... 

game was the percentage or times the Irish threw the ball. 
Jackson attempted three times as many passes as he did in the 36-20 win over Michigan, a fact which makes Notre Dame's offensive game plan more of a mystery. 
"I think .lim (Colletto) really does an outstanding job, as well as the rest of the oiTen­sivo staff," Davie said. 
"Coming out or the Michigan game, you probably feel like you have to throw the ball more than ten times and Jarious needed sonw sue­cess early !against Michigan State]. In that game we got behind so early that every­thing gets so thrown out of whack. The reality is we have to run the ball to bn sueeoss­rul." 
This year some of your peers, maybe even A FRIEND 
or  0  
from  
class,  will  

decide to become ~maD](vOn& through the RCIA... 

Asponsor s~Qu!d pe: 
o Willing to Joumey with someone 
o Open to share their o,~l'l experie.ncej 
,.: __~;: '" 
, ./-o ff~ady t(J~ask your own questions 
. ' C?'.i : ' 
; 
, o Free·~ to commit to weekly sessions C("Able to leanffrotJl others ~ \ , .. 
.... ..... t• ' . ' ·' ' _, ­
~sW? For more info, contact: Frank Santoni@ 631-3250, Badin Hall 


Is Your Future In Business? 
Do you Y~ant real business experience before you graduate? 

The Student Business Board is in search of a General Manager for the 1998-99 academic year. Duties include oversight of the finances or Adworks, Irish Gardens, and ND Video as well as other administrative duties. Applications can be picked up in Student Activities located in 315 LaFortune. 
If there are any questions, call Laura at 63 1-8040 
For the second game in a row, Lyons quarterback Katie Yanez put on an athletic dis­play as she led her team to victory over South Quad rival Badin. 
Tho Badin offense struggled the whole game, scoring its only points on a punt that was returned for a touchdown early in the second half. 
Late in the first half, Yanez connected with receiver Mogan Chandler from 10 yards out to put the team up 6-0. The extra point attempt failed and the Lions headed into halftime with the lead. 
Early in the second half, Badin tied it up as Betsy Cavo caught tho ball and sprinted 40 yards down the sideline untouched for the score. 
Lyons held the ball for most of the second half as Badin's offense continued to struggle. 
With five minutes remain­ing, Yanez hit Angela Bauer in the lnft side of tho end zone for Lyons' second score. 
Yanez then completed the nxtra point pass to Chandler to end the night's scoring. 
"They played their hearts out oven though they made a eouple of mistakes. Overall, hard work on our part made the dif'f'ereneo," said head 
The Observer/ JeH Hsu After the Michigan State loss, Davie is relying on quarterback Jarious Jackson to rebound and lead the Irish to a victory over Purdue. 



---·---~-·· 
' ' 

The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 23, 1998 
• TfNNlS 

Velasco bows out at Clay Courts 


STEVE DELSOHN Discussion • Signing 
Saturday, September 26th 
7:30-8:30 PM 
4601 Grape Road Mishawaka {219) 277·9482 
Notre Dame football is as American as apple pie, and then some. Steve Delsohn, co-author of Jim Brown's Out of Bounds, covers sixty years of Rghting Irish football history, ranging from Rockne to this year's kick-off against Michigan. This season, Talking Irish is the number-one nationally ranked football book. 



Attention Saint Mary's Freshman 
Elections for Your Class Board Are Coming! 
This Thursday, Sept. 24th 
7:30am-9:30am  in Dining Hall  
11 :OOam-1 :OOpm  in Dining Hall  
4:30pm-6:30pm  outside at  
Twilight Tailgate  

Exercise your right to choose! 
Look Out For 

junior Week 
Oct. 4-10 


Brought to you by the Class of2000 Council 
Special ro The Observer 
BALTIMORE 
Notre Dame senior women's tennis player Marisa Velasco won her first-round match, but dropped her second-round match in the quali­fying draw of the T. Rowe Price National Clay Court Championships in Baltimore, Md., the opening leg of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Collegiate Grand Slam. 
Velasco. ranked 54th in the preseason rank­ings, beat Alabama's 89th-ranked Dominique Glinzer 6-4. 6-4 in the first round. Unranked Minnesota senior Alice Rangsithienchai elimi­nated Velasco 7-6 17-5). 6-4 in the second round yesterday. 

Velasco was attempting to qualify for the 32­playr.r main draw. which begins tomorrow. Irish senior /\11-Amr.rit'an Jennifer llall and sophomore Michelle Dasso are entered directly in the main draw based on their rankings. Dasso enters her first Clay Court Championship ranked 17th in the country. while llall. a quar­terfinalist at the Clay Court Championships a year ago, is ranked 23rd. 
Irish junior Ali-Amerkan men's tennis player Ryan Sachire begins play in the Clay Court Championships tomorrow as the eighth-ranked player in the country. llr. also will compete in the doubles competition with sonior Brian Patterson. The pair is ranked 2Hth in the coun­try. 
.. ' . . ' 
' 

Wednesday, September 23, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
And still thl' llll'll hid in tlw darknl•ss, £khating thl'ir situation... 
FOXTROT 
WHAT 5HOVLD I GET DENISE?... WHAT SHoULD I GET DENISE?... 
'===,--, 
DILBERT 
01/ GOPf IJE:'RE BREAKtNv ANP f'HAT'S ft1RIE1ALS f!f 1f I,JE (jEI A 84D --rHtNG ~ CAvfiH/, 'WE (ovt.f> ~~~ 
1HROVJ!l our or sclfo 
l) 
BILL AMEND 
I  COULD 6ET  SURE THERE 15. THE'!' HAVE  PETER, &IV£  
HER THAT  TV CoMMERCIALS foR IT ALL  ME THE  
CHOC.oLATE •  THE TIME.  5HooT-WHAT'S  coco.  MoNE't' AND  
SCENTED PE~F\JME. DENISE LO'/ES  IT C~LL~E.~D~?..::_.. .rr======1  B't' CHANEL. I  LET ME &o BOY THE GIFT.  
CHOCoLATE..  I  

SCOTT ADAMS 


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Kitty Wells, jean Claude Kilty, 
Peggy Lipton, Elizabeth Ashley 

, HaP.PY Birthday: Don't do any· 
thing drastic this year. You should be 
trying to maintain what you have, not 
trying to lake on the world. This is 
not the best time to make changes but 
instead a period to nurtw'e and pro­
tect what you have already. You will 
accomplish the most il you are patient 
and willing to give others the oppor· 
tunity to do their own things. Step 
back and enjoy what you already 
have. Your numbers: 3, 12, 21, 30, 
39,44 

ARIES (March 21·April 19): Get 
busy. There's a lot to be done and if 
you don't reach your deadline, you 
won'l bo in your boss's good books 
You can get a promotion if you put in 
a little extra detail and some long 
hours. 00000 

TAURUS \AprillO·M•y 10): You 
are in a high cycle where travel, edu­
cation and creative endeavors are 
concerned. However, fou will have to 
be extremely carefu when dealing 
with money and investments. 000 
GEMINI (May 21·June 20): You 
may have problems with your living 
companions. Try not to get backed 
mto any comen. Dilpute1 may 1tart 
because of a lack of honesty. Don't let 
it be on your part. 000 . CANCER ()unt l1·July ll\: You 
may find yourseU caught in the mid· 
die of an argument that has nothing 
to do with you. Don't take sides if 
you wish to remain congenial with 
both parties. 000 

LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Arguments 
with children or friends may leave 
you steaming. You may find that your anger stem.'l from lcndmg or borrow­
ing money Try not to t.1kc others for 
granted. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·Sept. 2ll: Tern· 
pers will get out of hand today. Don' I 
start an argument unless you're pre­
pared to accept irreversible n.~ults. Br 
cautious handling tools, machinery or 
other dangerous ObJecls. 00 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): Authori· 
ty figures may be less than accommo· 
dating if you have done something 
underhanded. Make sure that all your 
legal papers and travel documents are 
in proper order. 0000 
SCORPIO (OcL 23·Nov. 21): Don't 
spend too much on children or enter­
tainment. You may want to join a club 
to work oft that excess energy; how­
ever, consider Wilys of doing just that 
for a lower price. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): · Travel.will bring you tho adventure 
and excitl!ment you require and at the 
same time will save you from mixing 
with individuals eager to confront 
you with an unsavory situation. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will have amazing ideas, but ex­
pect someone influential to try and 
block your at1empts at implementing 
them. You must gain the support of 
yo\.lr ~n fi111t. 000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20·Feb. 18): 
Don't overspend on children or large 
purchases. Monitor your budget care­
fully to avoid unnecessary stress. You 
shouJd visit a friend or relative who 
hasn't been well. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be 
careful not to hurt someone's feelings. 
You will be popular with acquain· 
tances; however, loved ones may end 
up feeling left out and insecure. 00 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Quark's place 5 Some are filled 
out 10 Org. for 7-Down 14 Command on a 
submarine 15 Beethoven dedicatee 16Get--the 
ground floor 11 "Stop" sign 20 Costa del -·­21 Cleanse 22 One of the 
Brothers Karamazov 23 "Unforgettable" smger 24 Gas or elec . e.g. 25 To pieces 
20 Lustrous fabric 30 Sailor 33 Assail 34 Ted's role on 
"Cheers· 35"Dies-· 36 "Stop" 51gn 40 Connecticuttvy 
Leaguers 41 ~~-dela Cite 42 Marconi's 
inventioo 43 Cub's home 44 To whom Tinker 
threw 46 Alamogordo event 47 Bouillabaisse. 
e.g. 4B Tabled'-­so Chairs on poles 53 Angler's luck 54 Guy's date 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
G\A\R\B 01 BAY E 01/';Q"fij
ALIIIEN OLIVE AVA 
TIA I B I L E H 0 p -~ ~ 'tt7f)( -G N A T S N I C 't~ ~ 
S A T .00 0 0 0E D 
C R E A S E L I N E A R-­OMENS TANGS.ORT 
CONS SO-EPEE
ORY.COMER EXPOS ...B L AM E D F A C E I T C R 0 0 N E R M I S E R L Y 
"'"""'I~~· T As E ,_
~~~ S H 0 W S T 0 P P EIRI ~~~ TAPES UTTER c5.c!!c!! AT s E A IT SIA A lSI 5J"Stop" sign so German article 6t Colorful rock 6Z "Pistol Packin' 
6l Cherished 64 Wankel engine part 65 Procedure part 
DOWN 
t Tacks on zNovice: Var. ll Track shape 4 Kitten's cry 5 Untamed 6Mountof-­
(site near Jerusalem) J Astronaut Sally 1 N.Y.C. sports venue I When to sow to This meant nothing to Nero 
u Operating without-­(taking risks) 
12 Skyrocket 13 "The King --" 11 Three sheets to 
the wind t9 Ugandan dictator 13 Game featuring 
shooters ll4 Where Provo is IS Invited 26 English 
dramatist George 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of i·nformation on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

27 Supped at home 47 Not a 53 Tuckered out 
29 Starwort 
30 School division 31 Watering hole 32 Infatuate 
35 Furious 37 Exceptional, as a restaurant or 
hotel 38 Went by plane 39 Gadget for 
cheese 44 Sicilian volcano 45 Religion of 
Japan 
spendthrift 54 Midge 
49 Aquatic 55 Crowning point mammal 
56 "Able to-­so Scurried tall.buildings 51 BuHalo's 
lake 58 Freudian factor 52 Actress Merrill 59 Early hrs. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the besl of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
... 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The 
.... 

Observer staff. 
-

Make checks payable to: The Observer. and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
-· 

Name ____________________________________________ _ Address ________________________________________ City ________ State _______ Zip_______ 
-

• Michigan is gearing • Ryan Sachire and 

~­
up for a weekend inter­

Brian Patterson will state rivalry against 
compete tomorrow in Michigan State. 
the National Clay 
PORTS 

Courts. 
p.l6 p.IB 
THE 
OBSERVER 


• FonmALL 

After week off, Davie and Irish primed for Purdue 
By JOEY CAVATO Associate Sports Editor 
After a week off to lick their wounds following a devastat­ing loss to the Michigan State Spartans, the Irish anxiously await their next opportunity. 
"It seems like an awfully long time since we've played," head coach Bob Davie said at his weekly press conference. "I know all of us are anxious to get out there and play. 
"These open dates are extremely tough, especially coming off a loss like we had at Michigan State," Davie con­tinued. "We're not going to let one half of football wreck everything we've worked to build. 
"I think the way the game finished, although it may seem insignificant to some people, -we've got something to build on from that. The bottom line is the only way to get through this and feel better is to play better and win." 
Since watching the Michigan State tape the day after the game, the Irish haven't had the opportunity to erase those eerie memories of East Lansing, as their only partic­ipation in college football last Saturday was with the remote. 
"It's been a tough couple of weeks, but I think the open date came at a good time," Davie said. 
"The coaches were able to recruit all cross the country. It gave us an opportunity to watch our opponents play. But it's exhausting watching ten opponents and watch them all win." 
But afterknocking off the defending champs in the home opener and going into half­time against Michigan State facing a 42-3 deficit, Davie feels that his team needed the emotional break. 
"I think the most important thing we've done was to settle our football team down. get our feet back on the ground," Davie said. 
"There's no question the first two weeks of the season we've expended a lot of ener­gy. We probably had the high­est high and probably the low­est low the way we played and lost to Michigan State." 
The focus has shifted from the first two games of the sea­son to the remaining nine as Notre Dame begins a two­game homestand this week­end. 
"We've taken the approach that it doesn't matter if we're 1-1, 2-0, or 0-2," Davie said. "We have to focus on the task at hand and that is improving as a football team and finding a way to beat Purdue." 
Davie looks to three main areas where he needs his team to improve the most: quarterback, defensive back­field, and defensive line. 
"The first concern is we are inexperienced at quarter­back," Davie said. "There's no question it's the most valuable position in football. We are inexperienced there, but you also see the potential there with Jarious Jackson and I'm pleased with his progress." 
see FOOTBALL I page I 7 
• VVnt\>!tH·s ~NTtHHALL FnornAa 


By NOAH AMSTADTER  tern that led to a touchdown reception by  teams also  came  through. We pinned  
Sporrs Writer  Natalie Hupf.  them deep a couple of times."  
But  the  game  stayed tight, partly  DeHoyos credits the defense of Berry,  
Monday night, loyal parents and class­ because the rainy conditions made it diffi­ Erin Paroutek and team captain Miehelle  
mates gave up  a blimp's eye view of the  cult for the teams to execute passing  Kippes and for keeping the Cavanaugh  
New Jersey Meadowlands in favor of a  attacks.  offense away from the goal.  Pangborn  
spot on the sidelines at West Stepan Field.  Late in the second half, Cavanaugh  improved its reeord to 2-0 with the vieto­ 
And rather than 300-pound millionaires,  stood poised to  score  from Pangborn's  ry.  
athletic Notre Dame  women  from six  five-yard line. But the Phoxes' defense  Walsh 7, Breen Phillips 0  
dorms took to the field in games as close  stood its ground. and defender Tymra  In  the evening's second  game,  thn  
as any on Monday Night Football.  Berry intercepted the would-be touch­ women  of Walsh pulled out a  victory  
Pangborn started the night with  an  down pass to preserve the victory.  despite problems with penaltins.  
exciting 6-0 victory over Cavanaugh.  "That first score really set the tone and  The Walsh defense  shut down  thn  
·­ The Phoxes got on  the board midway  our defense really came through.," said  Breen-Phillips passing attack completnly,  



Reflecting on Ripken and streak 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA Sports Columnist 
Taking a look at the week in sports from an obscured view way out in left field: 
• Cal Bipken sat out a game for the first time ever on Sunday. 
The Orioles, a team loadfld with talent that has been deci­mated by injuries, will be lucky if they have Hipken or any of their other 35+ year-old talent in the next two years. 
Ripken is one of' the game's greats, but I was one of the few who believed he should have sat out game 2,130 and allowed Gehrig to preserve his record. 
Gehrig ended his streak because of a fatal disease while he was still in his prime, whereas 1\ipken ended his streak beeause he was begin­ning to become ineffective. 
• Following tlw Dodgers' signing of' Orioles' Assistant General Manager Knvin Malone to tlw Ge1wral Manager role. tlw Orioles are a franchis1~ with a lot of free agents (i.e. Bobby Alomar and Hafael PalrnPirol and a lot of old and ~~XflPIISive talent. 
Hegard!Pss ol' that fact, Orioles ow1wr 1'.-1.-r Angelos and his dPI'P pockets will do anything to h11Y success. 
through the first half, running an out pat-head coach Sergio DeHoyos. "Special 

see INTERHALL I page 17 scl' I.FI·T FIELD I page 14 
vs Purdue Volleyball
vs. Seton Hall Saturday, I:30 p.m. v,. <:alvin College 
f!l @) 

October 2, 8 p.m. (k~ Today, ?p.m. 
SPORTS 
vs. Indiana Cross Country 
ATA 
\~ Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

Notre Dame Invitational Soccer 
:::=:~=· ··~=~·. vs. St. John's October 2, 3:30 p.m. v,. hanklin College 
k 'jiiJi' Saturday , 7:30 p.m. 'J'hursday, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 
• 



