
Friday, March 6, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 106 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

'CASH' 
program 
pays off for 
South Bend 
Hispanic 
community 
• ELECTION '98 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
T
hrough the vision of Isabel Jakab, an alliance between Notre Dame students and the Hispanic community of South Bend has flourished in the form of an organization called Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH). 
Jakab, who came to the U.S. from El Salvador, had long seen the needs in the Hispanic commu­nity. She served for 10 years on the Board of Directors at La Casa de Amistad (House of Friendship), a social service agency primarily for Hispanics in South Bend. She 
see CASH I page 4 
Professor details relationships of freedom, religion 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
News Writer 
Professor Hugh Page led the packed crowd in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's yester­day through a "brief imaginative journey to the Ancient Near East" as part of the College's Lenten Lecture Series. 
Focusing on four selected texts, Page urged the audience to conceptualize freedom and liberation. His goal was for listeners to understand the religious ethos by which the Bible is shaped, form a spiritual kinship with ancient forebears of religion, and gain an awareness of this theme in Judaism and Christianity. 
Page first spoke on the freedom of group inclusion, pointing out an example of this the Egyptian story of Sinuhe. 
Sinuhe was a man who fled into self­imposed exile, but later longed for the com­munity of his homeland. 
"[The culture] placed a premium on the group, not the indh(idual. They found safety and meaning in life with their families, com­munity, and relatives, not outside the com­munity," Page said. 
This story offers a sense of liberation by drawing from others. This "wholistic and integrated approach" led to members "plung[ing] head first into the joys ... of the group," according to Page. 
In his second topic, Page described free­dom in the heart of human existence in Mesopotamian cultures. 
In the Epic of Atrahasis, the burden of deities is delegated to mortals. The chief spokesperson of the gods is ironically sacri­ficed for the birth of humans who were cre­ated through mixed clay and flesh. 
Before the god's death, a promise was made that a symbol of him would be found within every person -"the drumbeat of the human heart." 
"It suggests that the same courage and intelligence is at the heart of the human experience," Page said. "The heart is the seed of emotion and intellect. [It] is seen as the cosmic liberator." 
see LENT I page 4 
Hanover team will lead class of 2001 •
Ill 1998-99 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
The ticket of Hunt Hanover and Anna Benjamin was elected yesterday to lead the class of 2001. edging Gerry Olinger and Megan Strader's ticket in a runoff election 
51.2 percent to 48.4 percent. The margin of victory was 28 votes. 
llanover will take over as president, with Benjamin stepping in at vice president, Brian Smith will be treasurer and Meghan McCurdy will take over as secretary. 
"We have a lot to bring to the class: a fresh perspective, experience and a good work ethic," declared Hanover. 
The ticket hopes to improve communica­tion between class government and students. They plan to distribute a bimonthly class newsletter by e-mail and put up an informa­tional Web page for sophomores. They will also hold open class council meetings. 
"We'll encourage any involvement, ideas, criticism from students. We'll listen to any­thing that can help us be better representa­tives for students," stated Smith. 
The ticket also plans to hold several class activities early next fall "in order to increase class unity," said Hanover. 
Smith and McCurdy served on Freshman Class Council, and Anna Benjamin was vice president of the class of 2001. "I am looking forward to working hard for our class again next year," stated Benjamin. 
The race was hotly contested, as five tick­ets initially entered the race. In Monday's election Hanover received 30 percent of the vote and Olinger garnered 23 percent. "It's exciting to see that much enthusiasm," com­mented Hanover. 
"We would have been in great hands either way," Hanover continued, referring to the close nature of his victory over the Olinger ticket. Olinger has served as president of the class of 2001 up to this point in the year. "We think Gerry did a great job last year." 
Mickey Doyle was elected off-campus sena­tor, receiving 53 percent of the vote. 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
NO loses sight 
of students 
i\t the end of a listening ~===:~==~ session on cultural diversi­ty hosted by Father Edward Malloy a couple weeks ago. members of the audience, 95 percent of whom were minority stu­denl<>, pressed him to attend a follow-up event where they could contin­Brad Prendergast ue to air their concerns. Editor-in-Chief After a few minutes' hes­itation. Malloy agreed to the students' wishes. 
I attended that session. and what surprised me was not so much that Malloy a1-,<reed but that this was the first time in my fimr years at Notrn Damn that anyone in the upper m:helon of the administration had said he or she would listtm to what tlw students had to say. 
Sure. Patricia O'Hara reads the resolutions from the Campus Lili~ Council belimJ she rejects them. but the fad is that the adminis­tration has its mind made up on the most con­troversial issues well beforn it receives student input. 
When we at The Observer write articles about how the latest rational argumenlc; of stu­dents to improve the campus community have bmm rejected, we tend to becomn desensitized. "So the University chose to hide behind legal jargon rather than do the right thing by includ­ing sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause? That ligures." 
There are times when the frustration often experienced by the student body hits home at The Observer. For the past six months, The Observer has tried to make the best of the impending move to South Dining llall. which was forced upon us without regard for the fad that it makes absnlutely zero sense for the stu­dent newspaper, whieh devotes much of its news-gathering to student government, not to be housed in the student center, where many student groups such as student government arc located. 
But more important than whether the University cams about the school paper is whether it cares about the students. You'd think the administrators do earn. but some­times you have to wonder. 
When the school spends $50 million to reno­vate the hallowed home of the football squad ­a team composed of a greater percentage of minorities than the student body is-but allows relations between races, and for that matter, genders, to deteriorate, you have to wonder. 
When the school deddes to spend millions of dollars to repave the sidewalks on God Quad and to build a second bookstore, yet increases tuition each year at a rate twice that of infla­tion so that graduating seniors begin life $30,000 in the holtJ, you have to wonder. 
When plenty of other Catholic universities allow their homosexual studenlc; to run their own groups and include st~xual orientation in their non-discrimination clauses, but Notre Dame hides itself behind lngal jargon instead of just doing the right thing by providing homo­sexuals the proteetion they desnrve, you have to wonder. 
Every time that The Observer's outgoing edi­tor-in-chief writes an Inside Column for the last issue of his term -as today's edition is for me -the content invariably focuses on how the administration has ignored both the students and thnir opinions. The implication is that things around here just don't get better, even as ti mn moves from one year to the next. 
Because the student body is composed of dif­ferent people every year, it has an excuse for repeating the same mistakes. 
The administration, however, does not. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TooAY's STAFF 
News Accent Anne Marie Mattingly Kristi Klitsch Tim Logan Sarah Dylag 
Sports Graphics Brian Kessler Dave Piening Viewpoint Production 
Colleen Gaughen Mark DeBoy Lab Tech Liz Lang 
The Ob,crvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hcd Monday 1hrough Friday cxccpc durmg exam and vacation period~. The Observer i~ a member of the Asm<.:iarcd Prc.\!o. All reproduction riglus arc reserved. 
C~, ~outside the Dome 
-~'\.,_,· ~~~,\ 
"\.( .., Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Nationwide 'cyber attack' strikes Princeton, other schools 
PH.INCETON, N.J. 
Investigations are still underway to explain the computer crash that affected thousands of civilian and military computers all over the nation, including those at the univer­sity. 
During a 36-hour period that began early Monday evening, several schools, including the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. the University of Minnesota, and the University of California at Berkeley, were affected, according to the Associated Press. 
Several unclassified Navy comput­ers were also affected, according to Commander O'Leary from the U.S. Navy Office of Information in New York City. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is heading up the effort to find the people responsible, O'Leary said. "The FBI handles all 

Microsoft Corporation group prod­ucts manager Edmund lluth said Microsoft is also performing. an investigation in cooperation with "law enforcement agencies and thn various institutions involved." 
"As a company, it's our policy to cooperate aggressively with law enforcement agencies when security breaches occur against our clients," 
lluth said. lluth added the univnrsity has been an important collaborator in this and 
past  investigations.  "Princeton  is  
well  known  about  its  expertise  in  
computer security," he said.  

According to lluth. then~ are vari­ous types of 'cyber-attacks' possible. 
"This type of attack is called a 'denial of service attack,' when no data is conducted to the computers, and that ciwses thnm to l'rnezn. Most systems are set just to reboot aftt~r they frneze," he addnd. 
lluth also said the university's lack of Internet SC{:urity makes it a more­susceptibln targt~t to cyber attacks. 
"This type of attack can only be mounted against organizations that do not protect their networks with lirnwalls.... !\ lirewall is a piece of software that insulates the lnternrt from the internal network of tht~ organization," lluth said. 
• DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Students burn campus benches 
DUH.HAM, N.C. 
West Campus looks remarkably barren now. Displaying an 
impressive level of organization and unity, students Tuesday 
night burned many of the benches that had inhabited the 
area. The spark for the burnings came from the administra­
tion's refusal to allow students to build a traditional bonfire 
following the men's basketball team's Saturday afternoon 77­
75 victory over archrival University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill and from its plan to take away 14 of the benches 
in order to prevent future fires. "Public Safety didn't want any 
more benches on campus," Trinity senior Jefl' Kessler said 
sarcastically. "I guess we're just doing their job for them." In 
an elaborate plot -orchestrated by two students who wished 
to mmain anonymous -several people planted a decoy to 
distract members of the Duke University Police Department: 
They moved the bench to the center of the quad and feigned 
igniting it. At approximately the same time, a fire alarm went 
off in Clocktower Quad, and a few of the students who were 
trying to ignite the Mirecourt bench were taken away by 
police. 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Casino management will be offered 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
MSU took a gamble Tuesday after the Academic Council approved courses that teach how to manage a casino, some faculty members said. "Does MSU want to be associated with an activity that will teach impressionable young peo­ple how to gamble?" asked Shawnee Vickery, a market and supply chain management professor, during the meeting. Vickery, who asked for dismissal of the motion, said oll'er­ing the classes would only cause advocacy and could begin a dangerous path for college students. She also said the long-term effects of gaming may lead to many negative consequences. including habits such as alcoholism and the severity of a huge economic impact. But John Tarras, asso­ciate professor of hospitality business, said students have the right to choose whether they want to gamble, and the courses will provide the knowledge needed to make that decision. 
• WESTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY 
Freshmen charged with counterfeiting 
BOWLING GHEEN, Ky. 
Two Western Kentucky students wew indicted by a fed­eral grand jury in Louisville yesterday in connection with a possible two-state counterfeiting ring. Freshmen Jason Cardwell and Craig Fagg, both 19, wtlrtl charged with conspiracy, producing counterl'tlit currnnt:y and passing counterfeit currency, all federal offenses. If convietnd, Cardwell may serve up to 50 years in prison. three years of supervised release and pay a $1 million line. Fagg faces up to 35 years imprisonment, thnw yt~ars su1wr­vised release and a $750,000 fine if proven guilty. "I've been advised to tell you guys no comment," Cardwell said. Despite numerous calls, Fagg could not be reachml for comment. Fagg and Cardwell wnre released on bond and will be arraigned in Bowling Green federal eourt March 18. According to the indictment, the two conspin~d last August to produce $20 bills on a computer in Fagg's dormitory room. Thn two allegmlly spent tlw phony cash in several unspecified Bowling Green convenient:e stores Aug. 27. 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA Gov't officials sued for defamation 
TAMP/\, Fla. 
Student government chief justice Chandan Manansingh filed two civil lawsuilc; in llillsborough County eircuit court against three Student Government o!Tieials li>r defamation of character and violating information laws. The defendants named in the lawsuits are senate president Hob Mackay, Sen. Lara Osofsky and director for Sobt~r Hide Bryan Vt~rdone. In the ollicial complaint, Verdone is accused of spreading false information in regard to Manansingh's character. "(Verdonn) knew the good name and reputation of tho plaintiff (Manansingh)," it statns. "(Verdonll) composed and published a letter ... in which false, scandalous, and defamatory state­ments concerning (Manansingh) were made maliciously intending to injure the p!aintill' and to bring the plain till' into public scandal and disgraee." Verdone said he muld not com­ment on Manansingh's lawsuit against him bncause hn had not yet been served with a copy of the it. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeathcr® forecast for Jaytime conditions ami high temperatures 
··:j 
H L 
Friday 
45 29 Saturday 44 33 
I 
Sunday 54 43 
\
Monday 35 27 
.r ~ 
Tuesday . ·:·.,::·.:::-35 25 
-~5..../s··· "'.....~_/··~~ 
ov' • 
l 
~-~-~cQQQ {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl,;r;ies S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, March 6. 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 

~
........_..__ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
10 1998 AccuWeather, Inc 
Pressure 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VtB ASSOCIB/ftd Press 
Albany 46 23 Dallas 64 58 New Orleans 77 66 Atlanta 62 52 Denver 44 24 Portland, OR 52 34 Billings 26 12 Des Moines 47 34 Richmond 54 35 Boston 44 28 Detroit 43 32 Sacramento 59 36 Cincinnati 50 40 Miami 79 68 Seattle 50 34 

Friday The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Music students to perform opera 
By SARAH J. HILTZ Kraemer, who plays the part Drusilla is really the only one Associate News Editor of Ottavia, sung the praises of with some redeemable quali­
the show's director, Marc ties," she said. 
Homance, politics and the Verzatt. Mann emphasized that, glory of ancient Rome will be "Marc has so much energy, while college students may not on display in an opera put on and he gives everything he have a particular interest in by the Notre Dame music has. During the first rehearsal, opera, the intriguing plot department later this month. he gave me a whole extra hour makes the show worth seeing. 
The music department will and a half," Kraemer said. "What is interesting is that also include "The Coronation She also explained the care the plot has such subtle twists. of Poppea" in its spring sched­taken by Verzatt to accommo­There are a lot of subtexts that ule. Monteverdi's opera, which date the character according make it good. There is a lot of will be performed in English, to the abilities and personality meat in this particular work," is about love, polities and jeal­of the singer. she commented. ousy. and is set in the Roman "He takes time to get to The music for the opera will Empire during the reign of know you personally, and then be conducted by John Apeitos, Nero. decides how the character who is resident conductor of 
Emperor Nero, who will be should be played. He gets a the National Radio Symphony played by graduate student feel for your own personality, in Athens, Greece. Magnus llillbo, is the main then shapes the character," Tickets for "The Coronation eharaeter. lie is in Jove with Kraemer explained. of Poppea" are now available Poppea but is married to Stephanie Mann, a Notre at the LaFortune box office. Ottavia, who eventually tries to Dame graduate student, plays Costs are $6 for general havn him killed. Ottavia winds Drusilla, who takes the blame admission, and $3 for students up banished. and Poppea, for trying to murder Ottavia to and senior citizens. The show played by senior Laura protect Ottane, the man she will take place at 7:30 p.m. in Portune, becomes queen. loves. Washington Hall on March 27 
Graduatr. student Erin "The story is very sick. and 28. 

Announcing the 1998 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
• Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the 1998 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergradu­ate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbina, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a description ·of the research project or the program they intend to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs involved 
5) the names of two references 
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel
Application deadline: 
Scholarship Program in Italian Studies Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 

JltMen's Basketball. 
THE NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT WOULD LIKE TO THANK ALL OF THE STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF WHO PURCHASED SEASON TICKETS FOR THIS YEAR'S MEN'S BASKETBALL SEASON. YOUR SUPPORT OF THIS TEAM AND OF THE UNIVERSITY IS GREATLY APPRECIATED. 
TO OUR SENIORS, BEST OF LUCK IN YOUR FUTURE ENDEAVORS AND WE 
LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU ON YOUR RETURN VISITS. TO THE UNDERCLASSMEN, FACULTY AND STAFF, WE LOOK FORWARD TO S_EEING YOU IN THE JOYCE CENTER NEXT SEASON. 
THANKYOU, NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL FANS. 
Save the environment. Please recycle The Observer. 
Think beyond your boundaries 

Do you see yourself in an international career? 
Travel is a very competitive and fast-moving business. We are looking for candidates for our fast-track, high-level training program. If you are a dynamic individ-ual looking for the opportunity of a lifetime to work for a global company, check out our General Management Graduate Programme on our college recruitment website. 
Apply online before April 8th www.careermosaic-uk.co.uk/bagrads/ 
BRITISH AIRWAYS 
We are an 
employer. 

people for United States citi­celebrate the culture and "I love kids. These are like disloyal to their homeland, but zenship. diversity of the children of Le my brothers and sisters away know they are going to live
CASH 
continued from page 1 
also was looking for a way for her students to practice speak­ing Spanish in the real world. 
These two goals came togeth­er in 1992, when Jakab wanted to start a course at Notre Dame called the Hispanic Experience, in which she planned to include an experiential learn­ing component. The University viewed sending students into the Hispanic community as a liability, so the new organiza­tion bncame an alternative possibility for conversation experience. 
From these modest begin­nings, tho elub has expanded into a group benefiting up to 100 people each Sllmester. Jakab, founder of the club, also serves as the faculty adviser. 
"Not too many people know about CASH, but what is being achieved is a lot," she said. 
CASH offers three different programs at l.a Casa de Amistad -a Kids' Club on Saturday mornings, a Boy Scout troop which meets on weekday afternoons, and class­es designed to help prepare 
Lent 
continued from page 1 
The Bible was the third selection Page marked as pos­sessing concepts of freedom, especially in the Book of Exodus. 
A brief episode in this book "almost goes unnoticed," according to Page. However, wh1H1 Hxamincd, God's mes­sage to Moses, "I bore you on 
TITANIC (PG-13) DTS 12:00 4:00 8:15 KRIPPENOOAFS (PG-13) DTS 11SJ 2:0042:J6Sl9Zl t-USH (ffi13) 1 2 : 3 0 2 : 4 5 5:00 7:20 9:30 
GOOD WILL HUNTING (R) 1:30 4:30 7:10 10:00 ~SNl(PG13) DTS 12:15 2:30 4:40 7:30 9:40 US MARSHALS (PG 13) DIS 
1 :00 4:10 7:00 9:50 

There is also some involve­ment in teaching English as a second language at local schools. This semester, a new program offering Spanish classes to young children at the Early Childhood Development Center has begun. 
Last year's CASH president, senior Megan Ferstenfeld, got involved in the club in order to practice her Spanish. She began by participating in citi­zenship classes and tutoring English Harrison Elementary School. Soon, she became a club officer. 
"CASH's basic mission is to serve as a liaison between var­ious South Bend Hispanic char­ities and Notre Dame student volunteers," said Ferstenfeld. "Our goal is to try to get ND students out into the communi­ty, especially those in Spanish classes, to get a more experi­ential learning instead of text­book. And there's such a great need for it. We're really trying to get people to come up for next year and rebuild our club." 
The Kids Club is one of the most successful endeavors of CASH. It offers activities which 
eagle's wings and brought you to myself," implies Israel's concept of liberation. 
The text provides a sense of "divine strength, deliverance, and parental nurturing" and also the union of a community and a divine God. Israel's obe­dience to the covenant indi­cates a life of service through which people where invited to priestly vocations and found a link between freedom and the cosmos. 
"[This[ led to community lib­eration," Page said, emphasiz-
Casa de Amistad, who are 
mostly Hispanic. 
The Notre Dame volunteers play games with the children, celebrate holidays, do various arts and crafts, make snacks, go on field trips, and partic­ipate in other activities such as dancing or telling Hispanic ghost stories. 
One interesting aspect of the club is that the children may switch back and forth between speaking English and Spanish. Many children come with their friends and siblings in tow, as interest in the club spreads largely by word of mouth. 
Sophomore Laura Antkowiak, Kids Club Coordinator and vice president of CASH, is responsible for planning events for each week. She decides what will be the activities for that day. 
However, she notes that these are not always set in stone, recounting one morning when the children handcuffed the volunteers and dragged them off one-by-one to a room which they referred to as jail. Antkowiak called that day as her fondest memory of Kids Club. 
ing the virtues of the eagle. 
In his final example, Page noted that the New Testament embodied the ministry of Jesus and early Christian establishments. In the gospels, Jesus associated with those on "the social margins" which made him appear to represent counter-values of the society. 
This idea unifies the link between liberation in institu­tions and liberation or an indi­vidual. 
"[The New Testament! appears to permit an ongoing 
from home," said Antkowiak. "It's hard getting up early on Saturdays, but it's so worth it once you get used to playing with the kids," she said. 
"With the Kids Club, we are helping the kids to realize that it is not bad to speak Spanish; it is a gift," said Jakab. "If Notre Dame students are try­ing to learn Spanish, it must be good. We want to make them proud of their culture and also a part of American culture. What we want is to help the self-esteem of the Hispanic children." 
The citizenship classes, orga­nized by senior Kelly Nicholas and junior Matt Sparacino, meet one to two times a week to teach Hispanic people about citizenship and helping them become citizens. A number of people are looking to take advantage of this service through La Casa de Amistad. 
"With the citizenship classes, once people become citizens, they can vote and be the equal of Americans," said Jakab. "That is the goal of almost every person, but they are afraid because they love their country and are afraid to be 
influence of the Holy Spirit," Page said. "[It shows[ how to Jive the Gospel as an individ­ual and how to live the Gospel as a faith community." 
The issues of liberation and freedom are centralized in Judaism and Christianity, Page noted. 
Page ended his speech by answering a self-posed ques­tion, "How do the texts con­tribute to the observance of the Lenten season?" 
By contemplating the sacn~d mysteries for a 40-day period, 
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold or Platinum. Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. Key Bank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
here and want to be integrated into the community." 
The Boy Scouts offer a much needed after-school activity· for elementary school students, and the English program helps individuals to improve their grasp of the language. 
The new program at the Early Childhood Development Center is different in that it is not primarily for llispani1: chil­dren, but meant to promote understanding of the Hispanic culture and the speaking of Spanish. 
Down the road, Jakab would like to sen 300-level Spanish classes getting involved in CASH as an experiential learn­ing compo111mt, as the experi­ential learning is curnmtly only in place for 200-level classes. 
"For the future of CASH, I would like to sec more people involved and more projects," said Jakab. 
"I would like to see us become a very strong organi­zation on campus with office space, to be a more solid and eomprehensivn organization because we have a lot to give and there is a big group tl11we with the nned," he commented. 
Page believes that onn can gain a greater sense of libera­tion. 
Citing Lnnt as an npoch jour­ney, Page said this is a timn to "draw closer to pnople and draw eloser to nature" while discovering the meaning of liberation and freedom. 

Northwestt."rn Um\·ersirv 1!!. lookmg tOr colle~e-sophomores, JUIII;)fS .md sem~rs to work as counsdors m tht" Colkgt.> Prep.tr.mou Pmgr;un, .1 SllillilH."r progr.un for acndenucallv ralt"med hu~h school "itudt.""ms. Coun~dors serve ~s wrmug lllstructors. aCtl\'itv coordtn,tron ,tud resadence h.all adv1so~s. Appl.Jc.uns must be J\'JJbble to hegm work ou Jlllw 15. llJ'JK. 
Quahtied c.wdabtes should h.l\'e: 
• 
a record ofacademtc ;u.:)uert•mc.·ur: 

• 
srrong or.d and wntteu cummtlllJC;tnon sktlls: 


• excellent 111terpersoual sk1lls (both 111 group Jlld Ill Ollt'-011-0ill' ~JtU,IflOIIS); 
• 
nme-managemem,le.H.ier<;lup. .111d proh!em-solnu~ sk11ls: 0111d 

• 
:~ range ofexrracurncul.tr wta~srs. 


.\f/1/111/f)' dJIJI(/(11111.•' 1/Jl' 1.'//(tl/111~\!t'tf ftl tiJIJ'f)'. 
If you wdcoml' the chalk·ugc-of gllldin~ I ugh school srud~nrs throtu.?;h a c;umml·r of co~Uege learmu~ .md fuu, pl~a'il' com.1cr us. 
1-800-FINDS NU e-mail cpp(a nwu.edu 
r----------------------------------, 

QUAUTY RATED 

-~...---­
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 6, 1998 page 5 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OHICF.: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-747! SAINT MAidS Ori'ICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Hci~ler 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cich.1lski 
News Editor..... ............. Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Sports Editor... ................. Mike Day Accent Editor... ..................Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ....... Lori Allen Photo Editor .......................... Katie Kroener 
Business Manager Tom Roland 
Advertising Manager... . ...... jed Peters Ad Design Manager....................Jennifer Breslow Production Manager ..........Mark DeBoy Systems Manager.. .. . .....Michael Brouillet Controller... ...~ ................. Kyle Carlin 
The Ob!>crver is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudems of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint M.try'~ College. lr does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administration of either imritution. The new~ is reporr~d as accurately and objectively a.;; possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion ofrhe majoriry ofrhe Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoim Ediror, Sport.~ Ediror. Accenr Ediror. Saint Mary's Editor. Photo Ediror, and Associate News Ediror. Commemarics, leners and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not neces­~arily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all rcadt.•rs. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief  631-4 542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Adverrising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sport.' Ao.:cnt/Saint Mary\  631-4543 631-4540  Office Manager Fax  631-7471 631-6927  
lhy Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
licncr.d Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Notre Dame 'Family' Shouldn't Judge in Fox Case 
Now that tlw prosecution of John Rita is over. it may be useful to evaluate some aspects of the public and campus n~aetion to the case. 
On Nov. 13, 1993, at about 12:30 a.m., 

Charles Rice 
a car driven westbound by John Rita, then a third-yf~ar Notre Dame law stu­dent. struck and killed Mara Fox as she and three other students were walking west along Douglas road. 
John drove away from the scene and was later apprehended in his apart­ment. At 3:28 a.m., he was given an lntoxilyzer breath test which showed an alcohol blood lt>vnl of 0.14 percent. The legal limit is 0.10 percent. About a half­hour latPr, tlw policP videotaped an intnrview of John. 
In November I 994, John was tried in South Bnnd on two counts. one for caus­ing a death while driving with a blood alcohol level in excess of 0.10 percent, and the second for knowingly leaving the scmw of a personal injury accident. Tlw jury acquitted him on the first count and failed to reach a verdict on the sec­ond. 
Later. the second count was amended to charge him with failure to return to tlw scnne. On Feb. 6, 1998. John plead­ed guilty to this charge and was sen­tPncml to a one-y1~ar suspended sen­tence with probation, a $1,000 fine and 40 hours of community service which he can perform in Virginia, his home state. 
Prosecutor Miduu~l Barnes said the sent!~nce was appropriate: "We're at the same place, most likely, if he had been retried and a conviction obtained." The r.ase was prosecuted. and defended, with competence and integrity by Barnes, a respected Notre Dame Law School alumnus, and by Charles Asher, whose character as well as ability I know to be excellent in every respect. 
The incident was tragic for Mara Fox and her family. The Notre Dame com­munity, and especially the residents of Lyons Hall, gave a witness of faith and character in their support of Mara's family. The case was tragic, too, in a dif­ferent way, for John Rita and his family. 
Unfortunately, there were few indica­tions anywhere on campus of support, or even suspension of judgment, for them. 
The proper concern that justice be done was transmuted in some media and other quarters to an identification of justice with the conviction and imprisonment of John. This prejudg­ment was typified by the effort of some, even before the trial, to deny John his degree. The University has authority to do so. However, such a rush to punish­ment would have been inappropriate in a case in which the dispositive facts were seriously in dispute. 
We hear much about "the Notre Dame family," especially in fund raising. But if a family turns on a member in trouble, when the facts are in dispute and before the evidence is in, it is not much of a "family." 
And there were facts in serious dis­pute. After the trial, prosecutor Barnes said he "realized the case had possible weaknesses--notably the Intoxilyzer test and Fox's position in the road--but he thought the other evidence would over­come that." South Bend Tribune, Nov. 13, 1994, p.C1. 
On the breath test, the Intoxilyzer reg­istered strikeovers and misprints, caus­ing defense expert Dr. Walter Frajola to say that he had never seen such errors and that they led him to question the accuracy of the reading. Incredibly, the police did not retest or offer Rita the more reliable blood test which he was willing to take. 
Juror John Michaels said: "We consid­ered, as serious an accident as it was, why wasn't there a blood test? ... Why didn't they take another breath test to make sure it was correct?" 
Juror James Stroup said, "There was not evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that he was drunk. He surely was impaired, but ... it is legal to drive with a blood alcohol content of up to .1 0 per­cent... The only substantial evidence that he was over that limit was a ... test ... which does not even measure the actual blood alcohol content but only makes an estimate based on a breath sample. By testimony presented in court, there was serious doubt as to the validity of this method of testing for blood alcohol content, and as to the accuracy of the test given." 
On the second point, whether Mara Fox was unknowingly walking on the road, it is important that the night was dark, rainy and foggy. There was evi­dence which could support Mr. Asher's claim that: "The painted white borders of the ... road (also known as fog lines) were not maintained, making it impossi­ble for either a driver or a pedestrian to see where the edge of the road was. The Rita vehicle never left the roadway. The point of impact between the Hita vehicle and the victim was in the right center portion of the roadway. Even after the tragic accident (which could only have pushed the victim to the right), the vic­tim came to rest entirely on the roadway ... [T]he victim and her companions could not themselves know that some of them were on the dark, inadequately marked roadway." 
Since the trial, I have come to know John very well and I hold him in the very highest regard in every respect. At the time of the accident and trial I knew John well enough, as a student in three of my courses, to form a judgment on his sobriety during his videotaped inter­view shortly after he took the breath test. My reaction to that tape was that he was not drunk. A second viewing of the tape confirmed my opinion. 
However, my opinion that John did not in fact cause a death through dri­ving while intoxicated does not count. The only opinions that matter are those of the 12 jurors who deliberated upon all the evidence. Their vote to acquit John of the first charge means only that they unanimously concluded that the prosecution had not proven John's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The jury made no specific findings as to the level of alcoholic impairment, whether impairment caused the accident, or any other facts. I am not urging the reader to adopt any particular view of the facts. However, the verdict on the first count is consistent with the conclusion that if a total abstainer had been behind the wheel, Mara Fox would still have died. It is consistent with Mr. Asher's conclusion that "This was an accident. It had noth­ing to do with intoxication." 
On the amended second charge, John Rita should have returned to the scene as soon as he realized he had hit some­one. His guilty plea admits his fault in that regard, for which he will pay for the rest of his. life. Why did he not return? Because, in his own words, he "freaked out." He should not have done that. But if any reader can absolutely guarantee that he or she would not so react, he or she is made of sterner stuff than most mortals including this writer. 
After the acquittal, the Tribune reported that the mood on campus "was one of great sadness." Why "sadness"? If John had been convicted, would there have been "joy"? John Rita is as much a member of the Notre Dame "family" as is (not was) Mara Fox. 
The law gives an accused the benefit of the doubt and does not consider him guilty until a proper adjudication on the evidence. His "family" ought to do no less. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOU {l()N'TKNCW MYG!RL-­
UGTEN 7D M&, /?UK&/ 
r!<leN/?l SHes V~YN&t.
7HI!3 IS KIPNAPP/Ne_ 
COVNeCTW IN !!it477Z.&/
m You mewlHLfT.< 
I'U BeT me COPS ARe COMBING "1Hl3STATeBYNOitl! 
) 
• 0.UOTE Of THE DAY 
"california is a fine place to live -if you happen to be an orange." 
-Fred Allen 
~------~~·~-------~--~----~-----~------~-------------~--------­
page 6 
Friday, March 6, 1998 

Notre Dame's Habitat for Humanity campus 


By SARAH DYLAG Accent Wrirer 
Spring break is typically a week to have fun and spend time with friends un a tropical sun, but the University of Notre Dame's Habitat for Humanity chap has other plans. Although they may see some time in the sun, and they will spe the week with friends, they won't be seen on "MTV Spring Break 1998." lnste they'll be tackling a project right here in South Bend. 
Notre Dame's chapter of Habitat for Humanity was established in 1988 with help of the St. Joseph County chapter. As part of Habitat for Huma International, the NO chapter seeks to eliminate sub-standard housing worl Since its founding, the campus chapter has focused its efforts in the South area. They funded and constructed their first house independent of the St. .Jo County chapter in 1995, and since then they have built one house every ye Their 1997-98 house is almost complete, with the dedication ceremony schedul for April 19. 
But their hard work is far from finished. 
During spring break, 12 students and two advisors from three Japanese Habitat for Humanity campus chapters -Kyoto University, Doshisha University and Kwansei Gakui University -will visit South Bend. They will work together with represen­tatives from the Notre Dame chapter and other Indiana chapters to construct a house at 17 46 N. Meade St., near LaSalle High School. 
"It's a great opportunity," said Amy Crawford, president of Notre Dame's Habitat chapter. "We have a great organization that has taken on a lot of responsi­bility funding and building our own homes. Our involvement in the Japan exchange shows 
that other chapters are 
ttl
aware of our hard work." 
Developed by Indiana Lieutenant Governor Joseph Kernan, a Notre Dame graduate and former mayor of South Bend, the Kansai­lndiana Volunteer Initiative seeks to bring together Habitat volunteers in the spirit of international part­nership. Participants hope the initiative will provide an opportunity to highlight the mutual achievements of both Japanese and Indiana Habitat chapters while establishing a connection across countries. 
Early last semester, the ND chapter learned of the Japanese project through their faculty advisor, Professor David Kirkner. Kirkner pre­sented the issue at a weekly board meet­ing and the club seized the challenge appointing freshman Jennifer Farrell as spe­cial projects coordinator. 
Farrell's personal interest in Habitat began with her work at a fall break Appalachia seminar sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
"I went to Appalachia and decided I wanted to get more involved with Habitat. When the position opened up, Amy !Crawford] offered me the job and I took it," she·explained. 
Since then, Farrell has overseen all aspects of the ND chapter's involvement with the Kansai-Indiana Volunteer Initiative. 
''I'm kind of the contact person," she said. "St. Joe's Habitat tells me different things, Rick Hathaway, the regional director for Habitat in east and southern Asia, will e-mail me and I try to keep everyone informed." 
Keeping everyone informed means staying in contact with a long list of people in different parts of the United States and abroad sinee representatives from Japanese companies in South Bend and Habitat chapters from Purdue, Bethel College and !USB will each contribute to the project with the three .Japanese chapters. 
Farrell communicates regularly with the Japanese chapters and has learned a lot about their culture and involvement with Habitat. Her e-mail correspondence has revealed the Japanese students' enthusiastic anticipation of the opportunity to expand their involvement with Habitat International and work with the Indiana chapters. In addition to South Bend, the group will travel to Americus, Ga., the city where Habitat for Humanity was founded. 
"It's not just a chance for them to come to the United States," explained Farrell. 

ACCENT
Friday, March 6, 1998 page 7 


we build. Apparently, our way of building things is completely different from theirs." 
Typically, the Japanese chapter build homes made out of cement blocks instead of wood. Because land is so expensive and volunteerism uncommon, the four existing Habitat campus chapters in Japan have not had many opportunities to build within their country. Instead, the chapters frequently travel to the Philippines and build homes there. 
"In the Philippines, a house made of wood is like a shack," explained Farrell. "It's not really worth anything. The Japanese students are used to building with cement blocks. They're really excited about learning how we build. They even asked if they should take carpentry classes before they came." 
Building techniques will not be the only unfamiliar aspect for the visiting chap­ters. Although they attend international schools in Japan, only four volunteers are completely fluent in English. The rest speak only a few words or do not under­stand the language at all. Luckily, the Michiana Nihon Friendship group has 
offered to meet the students at the airport and help with translation throughout 
the week. 
"The Nihon Friendship group is a group of Japanese­

emphasized that the language barrier even poses 
problems with her e-mail correspondence. 
Despite the barrier, the St. Joseph County 
Habitat chapter has planned various 
activities to give the Japanese students 
a taste of American life. After arriving 
in South Bend on Saturday, March 7, 
the students will have a full day to 
rest, sight-see and socialize with 
the Indiana student volunteers. 
Sunday evening, they will par­
ticipate in a tailgate dinner 
organized by St. Joseph 
County Habitat. Work at the 
site begins at 8 a.m. Monday, 
and throughout the week, 
group dinners will be pro­
vided by various church 
organizations in the area. 
''I'm really enthusiastic to 
meet all of the students," 
said Jen Nelson, a Notre 
Dame Habitat volunteer. 
"There are quite a few activ­
ities and dinners planned 
that will give us a chance to 
get to know each other. I'm 
excited to meet some people 
and form some new friend­
ships." 
Nelson considered various 
other spring break options, but 
Habitat's Japanese exchange con­
vinced her to stay on-campus. 
"It's a unique opportunity," she 
explained. "I worked on a Habitat 
on an Appalachia seminar 
last year. The Habitat project in South Bend 
really convinced me to spend spring break 
here." 
While in South Bend. the Japanese students will 
also visit Japanese classes at LaSalle High School and 
have lunch with the students. On Tuesday, March 10, partic­
ipate in a press conference with Lt. Governor Kernan who will help 
build at the site that day. 
For the Notre Dame chapter, however, the most unique aspect of the project is 
the opportunity it presents for further international involvement. "In August. we want to send 10 of our students to the Philippines to build with the Japanese students who come here," said Farrell. 
The trip, which is still in the planning stage as the chapter considers funding options, would send members of Notre Dame's Habitat for Humanity chapter to a two-week work project in the Philippines. During these weeks, the chapter would attempt to construct 25 houses. 
"Houses don't cost as much there," explained Farrell. "I think the whole 
exchange just shows how much people around the world care about what hap­
pens in the Philippines and here." 
For now. the club is focusing on this week's project in South Bend. 
''I'm really excited to work with these students from Japan," said Crawford. "It's going to be a busy and hectic week. but I'm excited about meeting Japanese stu­dents, learning about their lives and culture and how they're interested in Habitat." 
"I just want our students to have a good time and the Japanese students to have a good time too," she added. 

Just another Saturday-afternoon? 

M
embers of Notre Dame's Habitat for Humani(v cbtlptcr !Porlt to,.tJether to build a hotm in South Bmd. The group jimd.r and btti!d.r one how·e each sc/;ool year workh7JJ mainly on Saturday and Sunday afternoons 
Below: Some members ofthe ND cb~lpter II'ill .rtay in Sout/; Bmd d~tring Sprin,_lf Break to work with Japanese stude·nts in lmifdinJJ a /;ousc at 1746 
N. Mende Stret, acros.l'jhmt LnSat!c HigiJ Sc!Jool. 
Photos courtesy of NO Habitat for Humanity 
Hahil~f for Humanily_ 

.... 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT CHAP 
..... ..._.____________.._____
~-_.._. 
Friday, March 6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• TRACK AND FIELD
.... 
Runners look to qualify for NCAA's 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
This wePkPIHI will bP the final opportunity for members of the Notre Danw track and f'ield tPam to qualify for thn NCAA indoor championships, with just a fpw individuals compet­ing in eit.lwr tlw Silvnrston Invitational in Ann Arbor, Mi c h . , o r tlw I. as t C h a n c n Qualifying 1\tnet at thn RCA l>onu• in Indianapolis. 
"We want to get some pnopln qualified, and in thn ease of J·:rrol Williams !who is almady automatically qualilled I. just to run as prPparation for nation­als," said lu~ad coach .Joe l'imw. "It will be good for him to run on the same track the Ni:AAs an~ lwld on." 
llnading to Silverston are pole vaultN \Jiikn Brown, who should be bound for nationals if he can clear 17 feet, seven inches, llllP inch higher than 
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
-~--­

his current best; Marshaun West, who is two centimeters away from an NCAA berth in the long jump; and .Jay llofner in the 35-lb. weight throw. 
Taking part in the Indianapolis nwct are Williams in the 55-mnter hurdles, .JoAnna DPetcr in the 3000­mnter run, whose previous tinws in the 3000 and 5000 may be good enough to qualify hnr; and a distance m!)dlny relay quartPt of Mikn Conway. Danny Payton. Phil Mishka. and .Jason Hexing. 
"One goal is wn're going to try to improvn .JoAnna's time in the 3000, and hopnfully get hnr into the 3000 at nationals," said distance coach Tim Connelly. "We'll use this race as a chance to qualify her, run on tlw same track the NCAAs are run on. and sharpen her up. 
"[If she makes it to nationalsI. Our number one goal would be for her to be an all-American, whieh would mean being in the top eight Americans. As well as she's running right now, that's a pretty re'alistic goal." 
"This weekend, we're run­ning the DMR to qualify for the NCAAs," said Rexing, an all­American. We're in a race that we should be able to do that in if we perform up to our capa­bilities. It will be tough, but I think we can do it." 
The NCAA championships will be held in the RCA Dome March 13-14. tlw same site as this weekend's Indianapolis nwet. 
"We'd love to, assuming that JoAnna, Errol, and a couple others get in. get a couple all­Americans out of that," said Piane. 
Of Williams, sprints and hur­dles eoach John Millar said, "I think, realistically, we'd like to see him make the final, which would mean, one, he'd be an 
UC-Davis presents challenge 
By KEVIN AMERIKS Sports Writer 
l.ast weekend. the women's lacrosse team took another important step toward mak­ing their presence known nationally by beginning their season along with 40 others at Duke University in the prestigious "South of the Border Tournament" in Durham. 
Though none of the nine contests which the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team squared off in last weekend will impact their regular sea­son record, head eoach Tracy Coyne extracted much mean­ing from her team's experi­ence at Durham. 
"We want to use this week­end as a benchmark for our season," Coyne said. "We had a great game versus Boston College, which killed us last year, but this time we han­dh)d thPm. We had excnllent transition, full-field passing, and good dnfensive plays." 
As opposed to last year, this time tlw team went down to thn tournanwnt with specific goals thny had snt for them­selves and tlwy came away with a greater sense of accomplishment. 
"Thn we!'kend was a huge success; we felt more cornpnt­itive than last ynar and we'n~ closPr to being thn team we want to lw," eommnnted Coyne. "\'\'e hung in tlH~rc with two teams in tlw top 10 ({;norgetown and Delaware) and did things well defensive­ly. It was also a good oppor­tunity to see how different groups of players work together in different posi­tions." 
In thn coach's eyes, the Irish have shown appreciable improvement from last year's squad, but Coyne is quick to qualify this broad notion of "improvement" and incorpo­rate it into a fuller expression of the approach that the team will take this year. 
"Given the strength of our opposition right now, we want to measure ourselves more in terms of where we want to be as a team, and not so much on whether we just win or lose, because we can of course win without playing well and that poses a problem too," she said. 
The attack is blessed with talent and will inevitably prove to be a formidable chal­lenge for the opposition, said Coyne, adding that shn is especially proud of the hard work and dedication that her midfielders and defenders have shown thus far. 
Though still in its formative stagns. the program's entry into thn national scene has bnen relativnly painl1~ss, if not a little suddon. Top 10 teams like Georgntown and D1daware are not only pas­sivnly taking notice of the ris­ing program, but thny are also gntting scornd on by Mara (;rarn. Eileen Hegan, and co. on the Irish attack. 
They are becoming frustrated by Jessica Grom and Margaret Cholis on the Irish def1mse. and they are bearing witness to the exciting atmos­phere that fans of Notre Dame athletics create for collegiate events. 
To be sure, the team has not bumped any one from the spotlight just yet, but all last season put them on the map, then this year they hope will serve as their coming out party. 
Now that midterms are through, the lacrosse team resumes competition with a week of games out west over spring break. They will begin their trip with a contest Monday afternoon against UC­Davis. Last year, UC-Davis finished their season with a 19-1 record. The match will provide yet another moment for the Irish to establish what sort of team they will be. 
The team will stay in the California sunshine for a few days, squaring olT with arch­rival Stanford at 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday. Then, it's off to Denver for tlwir final match of the road trip on Friday. 
"Our goal is to come back undefeated," commented Coynn. "WI) won't be happy unl1~ss we can accomplish that goal. We face a tough home stand after spring break, with competition from Colgate, Vanderbilt, and Uuquesne, so we need to be well-prepared to take the step in the direc­tion we want to go." 
jPlease Recycle the Observerj 
all-American, and two. any­thing can happen. The hardest part is getting into tlw finals." 
The cross country and track program produced 12 aii­Anwrieans in 199(>-1997. 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish hit the road for next two months 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
Although Willie Nelson delighted in being "On the Hoad Again," the mon's tennis team is already dreading its excursions. 
Finishing their regular season home games with a 7-0 win over Michigan State Wednesday, the No. 23 Irish now find themselves at every fold of the map for the remain­der of the year. 
The Irish (8-2) will begin their two month road trip (which coach Bob Bayliss can only define as brutal) Friday through Sunday at the Pacific Coast Doubles Tournament in California. 
"The competition is going to be tough," said senior Jakub Pietrowski who plays No. 1 dou­bles with Brian Patterson. "If we come out and have a bad day, we can defmitely get beat." 
And the teams that will be there will be more than willing to rain on the Irish's parade. The competition will boast mostly Ivy League schools and contenders ranked within the top 20. Included in the competi­tion will be Penn and William and Mary. 
The Patterson-Pietrowski duo ranked fifth in the nation proved their mortality at the beginning of the dual season by losing their first three matches. 
Lately, the pair has proven why they are ranked among the best by winning their last four battles in doubles. 
Bayliss may mix dilTMent combinations and implement often unused players. Eric 
Enloe, who usually plays only singles at No. 5, may receive his chance to prove himself a potll!lt powor in pairs. 
''I've been prar:tieing and feel ready," said Enloe who played successfully in the fall with Robert Warn. ''I'm anxious to get in there." 
The Irish are also anxious to breathe in some fresh air. 
"Getting outside will be good," captain Danny Hothschild said. "W11've played well outdoors." 
The outside courts are one benefit the Irish will have at the weekend tournament. Since courts outdoors are usually slower, they fit the Irish style of play which is accustomed to the tame courts at the Eck Pavilion. 
With outdoor play, the Irish can also expect more baseliners which fits nicely into their game plan. 
In l'aet, the overall atmos­phero of the tournamont should be enough to inspire the Irish to make a statement. 
"Lahoya is a gn~at placl' to play tennis," Bayliss said. "It's old and storied and the bBst place to play." 
After the weokond in tho West, Notre Dame will get their frequent 11yer miles in by head­ing bad east to face Pennsylvania on Tuesday. 
However the Irish should be able to handle the travel time eonsidering the way they have been playing. They have com­pilod live straight wins and arc eompeting at their highnst lnvnl. 
"I think we're prepared," Enloe said. "It's going to be tough. but we're looking for­ward to it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day hom 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: A Jack Russel Terrier on Feb. 27. 
If yours. please call 634-3331 
Found a gold bracelet. call Andrew I -63-53 
FOR RENT 
FURN. 1 BDRM APT. AIR. PRI­VATE KITCHEN, ENTRANCE. LAUNDRY. PHONE. UTILITIES INCLUDED $400/MO, ROOM $200/MO. 272-0615. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW & FALL.272-6551 
APT. New Buffalo, MI. Prof or Grad Student who com­mutes between Chicago & NO 
Non-smoker pref. No pets. 1-800­265-1682. 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
New 5 bdrm. 2 bath home with LR. FR. outdoor deck. & 2 car garage within walking distance of campus. Has AJC, gas. heat, stove. refrig, G/D, 0/W, W & D. $1500 per mo. 232-4527. 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE '98-'99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar. WID. V-Ball Ct. 1628 Portage. 234-3831 /273-0482 
FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size. 
with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New. never used, still in plastic. $225 219-862-2082 
1987 Ford Tempo. 5-speed, 4-cylinder. AJC, new brakes on, stereo, red, $800 , call after 
8.30pm at 233-3358 
TICKETS 
For Sale Clint Black Fort Wayne 3/14 Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows 272-7233 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and 
PERSONAL babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for 
SAINT PATRICK'S DAY. Make your baby all year long. Happy, car-plans, buy tickets while you can for ing professional couple would love The Celtic Fiddle Festival. Tickets to provide a new born with love. joy at LaFortune. and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­
800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale RENT 1628 PORTAGE '98-'99! Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor 234-3831 I 273-0482 play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID-1/2 price field fee. 12 pages rock. 291-2540. Brad rocks. 
I get to go home really soon and Did you ever just want to hit your that really rocks. significant other? 

Friday, March 6, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


Sp ash 
.
I 
tripes! 
COOL OFF IN THE HOTTEST NEW SWIMSUITS FOR JUNIORS 
$52 
BACKFLIPS 

·.·: ..~ 
.·.;-: 
vary by store. 
LL·FREE 1·800·528-2345 
L·S·AYRES 


• BASEBAll 


Irish host classic in San Antonio 
By ALLISON KRJLLA 
Spom Writ<·r 
A seven-game stint in San Antonio, TPxas, stands between tlw Irish and their Big East eon­f'erenrP open!'r against Providence on March 21. 
Notre Dame hosts its annual Irish Spring Baseball Classic at Wolfl' Municipal Stadium, March II-14. with Brigham Young, Southern Illinois and Incarnate World participating in this year's tournanwnt. 
All !'our games in the <:lassie prnsent fimnidable challenges to tlw Irish. who are fresh ofT a Diamond Classic championship title run. 
Tlw Irish will also play two ganws against Southwest Texas Stall~ and anotlwr game against BYU. 
IIPad roach Paul Mainieri praisml his team fin· its ability to bounn~ back after three tough losses to Miami. 
"It would haw lwPn easy !'or us to los!' ronlidPncP, but tlw oppo­site happPned," said Mainiori. 
OnP of thP kPys to Notre Danw's rPcent success is tlw 
Attorney DUI, immigration, contrat.'tS South Bend 246-9999 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• Used lxx>ks b:u;Jht arrl sold 
... 
• 
25 cate;JOries of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback b:>oks in stock 

• 
wt-of-Print Sei\rch Service: $2 .oo 


• foglrai.sals large arrl srall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
GREAr WAt~~_J 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
(219) 272-7376 -130 Dlxleway South 
(U.S. 31 In Roseland) at Howard Johnson's, South Bend, IN 
Saturday, April 18th at 1:00pm on St. Mary's Lake 
Entries 
due Tuesde:ry, ;\pril I4tll 
<rapti~.tJtS meeting 
Wc<hwsd;-l~' <1t 7prn L<lFortui w 
Registration packets 
froIll il<lll pwsiclcnt. or ..t-24 Fisilcr. x:m77 
resurgence of the ofl'ense. Brant Ust led the team in Evansville, Ind., although the team's power surge came from a variety of sources. 
Notre Dame blasted four home runs in a win over Purdue, with two by Ust. and drilled three homers in the final game versus Indiana, including two by junior Jell' Wagner. 
"We started to swing the bats last weekend," said Mainicri. "If we ean swing the bats consis­tently, we'll be tough to beat." 
Wagner led the team in hitting, going 7 -for-B in the three-game tournament, while J.J. Brock took advantage of his move to 
,.-~ 
the No. 2 spot in the lineup, bat­ting .385 over the same stretch. 
The pitching staff also did its part, striking out 21 batters and walking none in a three-game stretch against Central Miehigan, Evansville and Purdue. Alex Shilliday took the spotlight with his eight-inning, H)-strikeout gem against Evansville. 
Depth is a major concern for the staff during spring break. The Irish will be without the ser­vices of freshman Danny Tamayo and sophomore Scott Cavey, as both hurlers nurse sore arms. If the Irish can survive this test, they will be well-prepared for the upcoming Big East schedule. 

FISHER HALL REGATTA 
I 9 9 8 
STAFF 
! 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year. Summer Rentals June-August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
1•Furnished/central air 
•
All utilities included 

•
Indoor pool/spa 

•
Tennis, volleyball, &. basketball courts 





Center for Continuing Education 

·-~-..~·· March 5th 
•1 
pm William Hasker (Huntington College) 

..~,--~,, and the Metaphysics of Dualism" nts -Brian Leftow (FordhamUniversity) 

•3 
pm Richard Warner (Chicago Kent College of Law) "Mind/Body Dualism" 

•7 
pm David Chalmers (University of California, Santa Cruz) "Conceivability, Possibility and the Mind/Body Problem" comments -Barry Loewer (Rutgers University) 


Friday March 6th 
•I 
0 am John Foster (Oxford University) "A brief defense of the Cartesian View" comments-David Armstrong (University of Sydney) 

•I 
:30 pm Fred Dretskc (Stanford University) "Mental Normativity" comments-John O'Leary-Hawthorne (Syracuse University) 

•3:30 
pm W .D. Hart (University of' Illinois, Chicago) 


'The Music of Modality" 
-Philip Quinn (University of Notre Dame) 
March 7fh I 0 am Howard Robinson (University of Liverpool) Simplicity of the Self' ts-Ernest Sosa (Brown University) 
I:30 pm Jaegwon Kim (Brown University) 
ity and Dualism" 
11 ~r..,,.~ 0 "IS-Tim O'Connor (lndi<ma University, Bloomington) Sponsored by: University \lf Notre Dame The Center for Philosophy of Religion Alvin Plantinga, Director 
Org~nilers: 
Ted A. Warfield Dcnn Zimmerman 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Notre Dame will host its annual Irish Spring Baseball Classic next week. 

CELEBRATED EvENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
SPECIALIZING IN LONG DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING 
CYNTHIA BASKER 302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 219 2511-5482 
Call o1· U'l'ite fiwfi'ee infin·matioualtwcket 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CONCeRT 6AND ANNUAL SPRING CONCERT 
Please join us for an evening of musicl enjoyment 
*Big Band Sounds *Marches *School Songs *Classical Works *Irish Tunes --AND MORE.... 
MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998 -8:00 P.M. JOYCE CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC FREE ADMISSION 
Luther M. Snavely, Jr. Director of Norre Dame Bands 
ON VARIETIES OF DUALISM MARCH 5-7,1998 


-----~--~--,-~~~---­
Friday, March 6, 1998 The Observer • TODAY 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAM.'\ 
as smoking or drinking. If your career people laugh at you for travel plans. stands in the way of you finding satis-laugh baek and ask them why they 
page 11 
• 
IT TAK£.5 A CERTAIN 
TYPE OF PERSONALITY TO TELECOM MUTE, 
~U5T BECAUSE OTHER 
PEOPLE HI>..VE PERSON­ALlTtE5 DOESN'T ME~N YOU SHOULD 
TRY TO OE\IE.LO~ ONE. 
59 Discordant 
61 Herd 
62 Mesmerized 
63 Sandburg's "farewell­summer flower" 
64 Called into question 
DOWN 
1 Jolly sound 2Calling 
company? 3 Strike out 4Field 5 "--ever so 
humble ..." 6 Airline to Chile 7 Site of the 
Temple of Hephaestus a Foreign assembly 9 Ontario's -­Canal 
14 Casements 22 Shaq's alma 
mater 23 Really big shoe 25 Hudson's Bay 
Company, e.g. 26 Poorly situated 27 Impose 
d-=+~=t~~ 28 Roush of the Reds 
3D Risotto alternative 32 It may block the Rhein 33 Fall sports stats 34 "Wild Orchid" locale, 1990 38 Fall from grace 40 Author Rand 41 Director's cry 42 Rhoda's sister 43 Rudder attachment 
t HA.\/E LET'S NOTGET 
A PERSON-!NTO THAT ALITY! "IS ZERO A N Ut'\BEI\" DE. BATE. ~GAIN. 
\ 
far.tion, it may be time to lind a new career. 
y;:o (July 23 -Aug 22): Travelling will bring you to a foreign land that seems frighteningly familiar. If you play your cards right, you may never want to hadn't thought of it. Now is the tim• to get away from everything. 
PISCES (Feb. 19 -March 20): Start today and make a clean start for the year. Look for the interesting in every­day things. 
OOGBERT. 
CIWSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Lived it up 1 o Wedge-shaped inserts 15 Too keen 16 Site of two of the Ancient Wonders 17Ace 18 Slag 19 Put--ease 20 Tore 21 Third rock from the sun 22 Toward the end 24 Rap's Dr.-­25 Marching band instruments 29 Detects 31 Italian count? 35 Actress Balin 
36 Commando's outing 37 He was Amin guy 38 Crate component 39 CNN parent co. 40 Partner 42 Spoiled rotten 44 Hungry 45 It's equal to 1 00 ergs per gram 46 Deeply personal 
50 Ford's folly? 52 First name in coaching 
53 "--Andy Warhol" (1996 movie) 
58 Buddha's birthplace 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-7-t=+:+.:-7+=~"'-1 
Wante~: ~e~orters, ~~otoga~~ers an~ e~itors. Join The O~server staff. Jl~ lafortune ~tu~ent tenter 
48 Northeast college town 49 Prince of Darkness 51 Sun shade 53 About 54 L.I.R.R. stops 
55 Stalk 56 Years ago 57 Prepared to 
drive, with "up" 60 Multinational business-in its. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
~ave 
Cond 
... 
SPORTS Weekend 
page 12 Friday, March 6, 1998 
• MEN'S lACROSSE 
Lacrosse team prepares for road trip 
• 
By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI Sports Writers 
Spring break is a time for hanging out at the beach. relaxation, and a relief from the normal, monotonous rou­tines of sehool. 
But, for the Notre Dame men's laerosse team, it will be time for the longest road trip of the yrar. 
The Irish travcl to Colorado this weekend for a double­header against the Air Force Academy and Denver University. The second week­end of spring break will see Notre Dame in Hempstead. New York, to faee Loyola 
Colleg1~. 
The Irish aw eoming oil" of a strong performance against Penn State last weekend. win­ning 14-9. They were led by freshman Dave Ulrich. who seorml five goals and added two assists. Senior captain Burke Hayes and juniors Chris Dusseau and Brad Owen each added two goals in llw win. 
Notre Dame looks to build upon this victory during this three game road trip. 
"This road trip is crucial for us. In order to get the regional bids that we want. we must win 
predominately zone defense in
Irish looking to avenge last year's loss to Loyola 
a few years. With a few adjust­

ments, the Irish hope that it doesn't disrupt their attack. 
The team travels up to Denver the following day to face the Dcnver University Pioneers. 
"Denver University is a very young team, and therefore a very excitable t1mm," Corrigan stated. "We have to make sure to not get into a position where we are building their excite­ment." 
Looking past this w<wkcnd, the Irish have a chance at revenge when they play Loyola. Last year, Loyola knocked Notre Dame out of the NCAA tournamnnt in the first round, beating the Irish 21-5. The Irish hopn to play up to thnir potential this time around. 
"I don't think that I will have to do much to get our loam excited to play Loyola," Corrigan said. "Last year see it as a ehance for many dif­where we playod 11 very com­ferent individuals to step up potitive games and only fin­and produce." ishl~d with ono game whern wn The first game of the week­didn't play up to our pot1mtial. end will bc against Air Force in We arc all anxious to go out 
Colorado Springs, Col. The there." 
Falcons play a lot of zone The Irish have their work cut 
defense, which presents the out for them this spring break, 
Irish with yet another obstacle. but hope to rise to meet the 
Notre Dame hasn't played a challenges it presents. 
• 
these tough regional games," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "With the season being so short, every game is crucial. We hope to keep our momentum moving in the right direction." 
A unique challenge on this road trip will be playing on back-to-back days. This is the only time that the Irish arc scheduled to play two in a row this season. 
"This will give a lot of people on our team an opportunity to play," Corrigan explained. "We need contributions from every­one in a situation when we play back-to-back games. It is a challenge for us, but we also 
• HocKEY 
Playoff-bound Irish end regular season with Michigan 
momentum heading into the postsmtson, beeauso a hot team is hard to beat in tlw playolls. 
"We have play1~d very well over the past two weekends," stated Poulin. 
During that span. the Irish arn 3-0-1, with thoir only loss coming in ov1~rtinw to Western Michigan on an unlucky bounce of the puck. 
The Wolverirws have won both nwet­ings this season, a 7-2 triumph on Friday, Jan. 30th. But thn following night thn Irish played the Wolverines even, taking them to overtime. They eventually lost the game, but it was clear that the Irish could play with thn Wolv<Jrinns. 
Both the Irish and the Wolverines havn comparable sp!~dal tnams. Thny are tied in league power play scoring and the Irish hold a slight edge in pnnalty killing. 
Hegardless of the outcome. Poulin's squad will be playing away in the first round of the playolls. 
"We an~ going to treat it like a wcek1md away snries," eommentcd Poulin. "Our non-conference schedule will help us here. We deliboratdy scheduh1d dillicult away games to prepare us for this." 
The Irish have proven that they are a road team with impressive wins like the pair at St. Cloud State and tho thrashing of Michigan Stal<l. 
"Wn like to put ourslllvns in tough posi­tions in our non-eonfercneo selwduln because it helps us to become a bntter team," said Poulin. "Every team we playnd against this season outside of our confnnmce has spent at least some time in the top 10 in the nation, except for the second round of' the Mariucei Classie, which we eouldn't eontrol. All this expl~­rience will help us." 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
For the first time under head coach Dave Poulin, the Irish will participate in postseason play. 
i.• vs. Michigan, 
~ 
:r ...., .. Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
J! 
vs. South Carolina, 
!
~w 
Today, 2:30p.m. 
~ 
at S.W. Texas St., ~: Tomorrow, 3 p.m. 
lw 
By CHARLEY GATES Spons Writer 
Senior hockey players Lyle Andrusiak, Steve Noble and Matt Eisler will play their final game in the Joyce Cnnter tonight when the Irish take on thn Michigan Wolverines in Central Collegiate Hockey Association action. 
The game also concludes the regular season for the Irish {17-15-4 overall, 12­13-4 CCHA). But for the first time in head coach Dave Poulin's three-year tenure, his squad is bound for the postseason, regardless of the game's outcome. 
The Irish clinched a playofl' birth with a win at Northern Michigan two weeks ago; in that game, Brian Uriek had three points on his way to becoming the third Irish player to be named CCHA player of the week. 
The Irish currently sit in sixth place in the 11-team league, tied with Lake Superior State with 28 points. Both teams have one game remaining. The Lakers host Michigan State, the top-ranked team in the CCIIA, on Friday night, which means that Notre Dame will know what it has to do to -earn sole posession of sixth place when it takes the iee on Saturday night. 
The Lakers would win any tie because they hold the better reeord in head-to­head competition (2-0-1 ). Thus, a Laker victory on Friday night would put the Irish in seventh place. But a tie or a loss would leave the door open. 
If the Irish do capture sixth place, they will face third-ranked Ohio State. Otherwise they will face the Wolverines in Ann Arbor on March 13-15. 
Poulin's squad is trying hard to gain 

at Pacific Coast Doubles, March 6-8 
a) •Baseball team heads to San Antonio vs. Northwestern, 
'C 
see page l 0
Today, 3:30p.m. at Air Force, 
•• •Runners get last chance to qualify for
~ 
Tomorrow, I p.m. 
nationals 
W. Lax, at UC-Davis, see page 8 March 9, 3 p.m. ~ 
