
• Former U.S. Senator Bill Bradley spoke on • Find our why Movie Scene gave "Whar Dreams 
Monday
rhe balance of power since rhe cold war on 

May Come" srarring Robin Williams, Cuba Friday. 
Gooding, Jr., and Annabella Sciarra five our offive shamrocks. 
OCTOBERS,

News • 3 
Scene ·12 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 31 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Board of Trustees receives student government report 
By CHRIS LAWLER Resource Center on campus arrange the academic pro­Notre Dame academic pro­sions. News Writer and to efforts to purchase new grams for the !first-year stu­gram," according to the After such a structured first vans for tlw Center for Social dents! and to provide the guid-Undergraduate Programs year, the transition to the 
Student Govnrnment present­Concerns. Bulletin of Information 1998-sophomore year is often prob­ed its fall 191J8 report to the Thn report, entitled "Building 1999. lematic. Advising after the lirst Student Affairs Committee of Bridges: The First Year of Each first-year student takes year is conducted through the tlw Board of Trustnes last Studies and Beyond," contains a pre-arranged set of courses college of one's chosen major.
'THE REPORT IS 

Thursday al'tnrnoon at I :30 suggestions to both Student which fulfills University and can be confusing and dis­
IMPORTANT BECAUSE 

p.m. Tho n•port was dnvelop1~d Governmnnt and the Board of requirements. satisfying. by a Student (;overnment com­Trustees for extending the IT IS THE ONLY DIRECT CON­The program "provides two of Academic support resources mitten coordinated by snniors effectiveness and scope of the the most important features of also become scarce, especially
TACT THAT THE STUDENT 

Mark Massoud and Matt First Year of Studies Program. an academic program for first­in the area of writing assis­Tomko. "The First Year of Studies is BODY HAS WITH THE BOARD year students: 1) a foundation tance. After the required First TIH• rPport traditionally unique and effective, and our in liberal education and 2) an Year Composition elass, the
OF TRUSTEES.' 

focusns on improving an aspeel recommendations tie in very opportunity to sample areas Colleges of Seience. or studtmt lil'n at the Univnrsity. nicely with the program," said before declaring a major," Engineering and Business "The rnport is important," said Massoud. MARK MASSOUD according to FYS. Administration have no further Massoud. "bnrause it is tlw only First Ynar of Studies (FYS) is Other responsibilities of FYS writing requirements, while the
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

dirPcl contarl that the student <llle of tlw few programs of its include individual academic College of Arts and Letters body has with tlw Board of kind among national universi­advising, class scheduling and requires only one upper-lev<~l Truswns." ties. anee needed as they adjust to academic support services such writing intensive course. 
l'ast n~ports have lnd to the "The responsibilitins of the their new environment and as writing assistance, tutoring dPVPiopnwnl of tlw Wom<m's First Year of Studies are to meet the challenges of the and collaborative learning sns­see TRUSTEES I page 4 
N<·ws Writer  
Tlw NotrP Damn/Saint Mary's  
Hight to l.ifP Club is sponsoring  
a s<•rins of praynrs and snrviee  
arlivitins  in  enlnbralion  of  
"Hnspnct Life Wnnk."  
"We want to promote a  nws­ 
sag<~  of low. and show that wn  
arn an  organization basnd  on  
lovn and raring," co-prl'sident  
Samantha Snydnr said.  
Till' Wf'nk 's activilins arn prn­ 
SPntnd  as  praynr and servire  
ratlwr than dtnnonstration in  
o rd n r  to  prov i d n a  JHHu:e ful  
nwssag<' and avoid hostility.  
"Tlw surc<~ss  of this week is  
somnthing you can't mnasure.  
You'll  rwver  know tho hearts  
you  can  touch," Snyder said.  
"But. with tim amount of people  
involvnd. wn  belinve it will be  
surcnssful."  
Thn activities began on Friday  
with  a  mo'ek  graveyard.  
"C<~nwtnry  of the Innoennts."  
Mnmlwrs of the elub displayed  
4.400  crucifixi\S  in  the  
llnsburgh Library Mall reprn­ 
snnling the number· of abortions  
which occur each day.  
"It was shocking. Tlw display  
of all those crosses rnally made  The Observer/Job Turner  
me examinn how dPar life is," Frnshman (;eofT Srnitham said.  T housands of crosses are displayed in front of the Hesburgh Library as part of Right to Life Week. Each cross represents an  
"I had no idea how many abor­ abortion that happens each day.  
tions occur nach dav."  to abortion.  inmates on death row.  
Tomorrow. tlw dub will take a trip to St. JosPph county hos­pirn where partiripants will r<H:eivt~ a tour of the hospital, which is prnsnntnd as an alter­native to euthanasia. They will sne what S<~rvices are provided for the patients and find out how they can help in the future. On Wndnnsday, the elub is sponsoring a baby shower !'or an expectant mother living at Hannah's House, a loeal refuge  "It's one thing to just say 'Women should never have abortions, no matter what the situation.' Here, we are baeking this up with serviee and by ear­ing for them," policy direetor Laura Antkowiak said. As a peaceful demonstration against capital punishment, the club and Amnesty International's Notre Dame chapter will be holding a prayer service at the Indiana state  It will be a "peaceful gather­ing, not a demonstration," according to publicity director Amy Szestak. Other activities include a Litany of the Saints/Prayer ser­vice at Stonehenge tonight at 10 p.m. The group will also meet at the Grotto at 9 p.m. on Tuesday, to review of the Stations of the Cross around St. Joseph's Lake. Membership in the dub is not  
for women senking alternatives  prison in Michigan City, Ind., for  see LIFE I page 4  

• P Gf .IF 'Jn:l< 


Week focuses on prayer, peace 
By DAVID SARACINO 

Co-exchange brings ND men to Saint Mary's 
By SARAH MAGNESS News Writer 
Five minutes into class the door opens and a man eomns in. lie has just rollerbladed. biked or taken the shuttln to Saint Mary's for class. 
When a professor calls 
the name "Joe" during roll on the first day of elass, heads often turn to the deep voice that responds. 
The deep voices belong to some of the 46 Notre Dame students who take part in the eo-exchange program with Saint Mary's College. 
~'lrtMonday. 

v··~ ·..••'Feature
,.\. l •• ~ 
... · 





,._, 

Saint Mary's and Notre Dame share a long history of a eo­exchange program for many classes and sometimes even majors. 
When Notre Dame eliminated the education d11partmnnt. the options for students wanting to study education switched to the other side of U.S. 31. They could either choose another major or declare themselves an education major and study at Saint Mary's. 
"I realized that bncoming a teacher would suit my pnrson­ality well," said junior Matthew Marsters-D'Urso. "I first learned of the program at Saint Mary's aftnr I read an articln in The Observer. I want to become a high-sehoul English teacher, and I can do this through the classes I take at Saint Mary's." 
The co-exchange program also o!l'ers male students the chanee to learn in a difl'erent environment, onn that is found­ed and formatted for the woman. 
The prevalence of' wom1m in thn classroom at Saint Mary's creates obstacles and challenges as well as benefits and rewards for the men. Intimidation is the popular way men describe their first days in a Saint Mary's elassroom. 
"The experience of entering a dassroom with all women is intimidating, but it has become more comfortable with time," said Marsters-D'Urso. 
Students are often called upon for a male perspective. Every opinion and action is easily noted by peers due to the slanted classroom ratio of sometimes 20:1, many male stu­dents said. 
They also said they are under pressure to participate and to be consistent in presenee, just like Saint Mary's students. 
see SMC I page 4 

~------~----~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Real World 
The last column I wrote in this space was entitled "Long Week." At that point the week was only half over. The week didn't get any shorter. 
People sometimes Chris Kusek have a hard time writ­
Assistant Viewpoint 
ing the inside column. 
Editor
I've heard that the hardest part is finding something to write about. In many ways, they're right. This column can be hard to write. If it isn't written, though, the space would be blank. 
Like that. Anyway, when I thought about what to write about, I figured I'd just talk about a CD I was sent this weekend. I'm a new member of BMG music club. Great deals. 
So, believe me, I'm no Scene critic, but 1 thought I'd write a personal review of the song. I hear this band is a "fluff'' band. I guess most bands become fluff as soon as they become popular. Or something. Well. .. 
I wonder what it's like to be the rainmaker/ I wonder what it's like to know that I made the rain I I'd store it in boxes with little yellow tags on every one. 
I was once asked why I "moralized" in my last column. My grandfather gave me a big dictionary before I went away to college. I wasn't sure what the word meant exactly, so I used the gift. 
moralize -To think about or express moral judgments or reflections (American Heritage). 
If that's what it really means, then it seems to me that we are always thinking and reflect­ing on our moral judgments. Aren't we? I once read somewhere that the unexamined life is not worth living. Or something. Anyway... 
Straight up what did you hope to learn about here I ifI were someone else. would this all fall apart I I wish the real world would just stop hassling me. 
I read an inside column from Friday's paper. It moralized about cancer and promoted the upcoming Domer run benifiting breast cancer research. If you have time, run it. It's a good cause. 
I worked at a camp once and met a tl(ll-year-old girl with cancer. I came back to work at the camp the next summer. 
She didn't. 
I wonder what it's like to be the head hon­cho/ I wonder what I'd do if they all did just what I said. 
Like I've said, last week was kinda long. I wrote a column for Thursday's paper that included an email. Ironically, I received anoth­er e-mail on Friday. It was about a good friend of my family. His brother and sister-in-law were tragically hit by a drunk driver last week. His brother is now in a coma. 
His brother's wife isn't. Don't drink and drive. I also received an e-mail about a girl with 
cancer. The American Cancer Society is involoved in a fund raising effort that gives a percentage of money that somehow coincides with numbers of e-mail forwards sent around the world. If you want this forward to be sent on to you, please leave your e-mail adress on the Observer Viewpoint desk before Wednesday. There will be a box, but probably no yellow tags. 
Please don't change, please don't break I the only thing that seems to work at all is you I please don't change, at all from me to you, and you to me . 
Well, it's Sunday. If you're reading this, it's probably Monday. Either way, new week in the Real World (3:50). I had a long day (3:45), but it's a new day. I don't know if happiness is a mat on a doorway, but outside it's stopped raining. 
Oh, by the way, even if you think a band is 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TooAv's STAFF 
News Scene BiH Uniowski Mike Varegas Noreen Gillespie 
Graphics 
Finn Pressly Scott Hardy 
Sports Production 
Karie Miller Kathleen Lopez 
Bill Han 
Lab Tech 
Viewpoint 
Kevin Dalum 
Eddie Llull 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Monday, October 5, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Year 2000 problem threatens financial aid programs 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 

With less than 500 days left until the turn of the century, the Georgetown University's education department's failure to address the Year 2000 com­puter problem may threaten the deliv­ery of fmancial aid to college students, according to witnesses at a recent Congressional hearing. 
The committee on oversight and investigations of the House of Representatives held a hearing on the issue on Sept. 17 in which it outlined progress, heard witness testimony and identified problems. 
Chairman Pete Hoekstra {R-Mich.) and Rep. Steve Horn {R-Calif.), a Congressional leader concerning the Y2K problem, released a quarterly report last week on the status of feder­al agencies' progress on the year 2000 issue. The education department, among the agencies detailed, received a grade of 'F.' 
"The education department disburs­es student loans and grants to millions of college students each year; if stu­dents fail to receive fmancial assistance checks on time, most of them will be unable to register for classes," Hoekstra said. 
Hoekstra noted that only four of the education department's 11 critical financial aid computer programs are Year 2000 compliant. Among these incomplete "mission critical computer programs" are the Pel! Grant and Federal Family Education Loan Program systems. 
"One key factor contributing to this delay was the instability of the depart­ment's Year 2000 project manager position, which suffered continual turnover," said Joel Willemssen, direc­tor of the general accounting office's office of information resources man­agement. 
Willemssen discussed testing time and contingency plans as issues which may threaten the ability of financial aid students to receive help from the edu­cation department after 2000. The same problems face all who deal with the Year 2000 problem. 
"[Horn's report) projects that the education department will not be com­pliant until at least 2030," Hoekstra said. 

• OKLAHOMA STATE UNiVERSITY 
Bomb damages dormitory building 
STILLWATER, Okla. 

An Oklahoma State University student reported that someone threw a "molotov cocktail" on the eighth floor of Willham South Wednesday afternoon, officials said. No residents were hurt, said Don Pierce, manager for envi­ronmental health and safety department. There was minor damage to the carpet, wall and paint on the eleva­tor door, Pierce said. Damage is estimated at $200, according to the daily summary released by university police. Pierce said it was reported that the suspects were in the elevator of Willham South and opened the elevator door at the eighth floor. They then threw a "molotov cock­tail" against the residence hall wall. A molotov cocktail is a glass container filled with a flammable liquid. A lit piece of paper is stuck down the neck of the bottle. When the glass breaks, the flammable liquid comes out and ignites, Pierce said. 
• BROWN UNIVERSITY Publication ignites controversy 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

Controversy surrounding the latest issue of Exit 20, Brown's humor magazine, has brought the issue of free­dom of speech at Brown back into the spotlight. The ques­tion of whether Brown publications, and students in gener­al, have the right to say whatever they want has manifest­ed itself in recent letters to The Herald as well as in gener­al campus debate. Last year, the College Republicans and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) joined forces in an attempt to rid the student code of conduct of language that could allow students to be punished based on their speech. According to Luc Morris of the College Republicans, the Republicans and ACLU are continuing their efforts this year, meeting with different campus groups and personalities in order to gain support for their proposed changes. Andrew Barlow, editor-in-chief of Exit 20, said that he was very surprised when he first saw responses to the first issue of the magazine. 
• UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYlVANIA 
Police aim to catch underage drinkers 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 

A new method to curtail underage drinking will be implemented in Centre County soon. In coming weeks, plainclothes police officers from departments throughout the county will be looking for minors attempting to obtain alcohol at participating taverns and alcohol retailers as part of the "Cops in Shops" program, said officer Robert Barry of the Ferguson Township police department. Officers posted inside these establishments will be avail­able to assist employees dealing with questionable IDs, while officers located outside will watch for minors trying to find people of age to purchase alcohol for them. "The entire goal is to prevent minors from getting alcohol with a counterfeit ID, altered ID or by having an adult get it for them," Barry said. The program was developed by the century .council, a national nonprofit organization dedicat­ed to reducing underage drinking. 
• SYRACUSE UNfVERSITY Bored jury waits to begin trial 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 

A jury of seven men and five women was selected Thursday after enduring a marathon questioning session to hear the trial of Terrence Evans, the man charged with killing Syracuse University sophomore April Gregory in 1996. Some of the 71 potential jurors who appeared for selection yawned throughout the day, others brought along crossword puzzles, but most were keenly aware of the case. Only a handful had not seen, heard or read reports of Gregory's disappearance, the subsequent Syracuse police investigation and the discovery of her body 17 months later in Evans' home. Potential jurors for the second degree murder trial, who are residents of Onondaga County, were called in groups of 14 to be ques­tioned by both the prosecuting attorney and the defense team in the historical appellate trial room on the fourth floor of the county courthouse. One hundred and fifty peo­ple were subpoenaed for jury duty. 

• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Monday, October 5 
H L 


Monday 4, 7'5 53··.1.? Tuesday 

~,75 Wedn~sday~ 
Thursday Frid~y l~~ 5 6 
~ ...f./-:..f'''"··..,..\;......'... .; 

Albany 64 37 Cleveland 66 53 Miami 89 78 Atlanta 84 65 Dallas 86 64 Nashville 84 65
q_Q_~qMQ (f ~ u 
Boston 61 42 Denver 51 33 New York 66 47 
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cambridge 63 44 Fargo 56 43 Santa Fe 59 34 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Chicago 66 55 Indianapolis 75 63 San Diego 76 60 
..----~-------------~ ---------~ 
Monday, October 5, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Bradley: U.S. should 'embrace idealism' in world affairs 

By CHRIS LAWLER News Writer 
The balance of power in thn world has shifted since the end of the Cold War, according to former U.S. Senator Bill Bradley. 
The leelurn Friday was the third in a series of five lecturos by Senator Bradley at Notrn Damn this fall and dealt with changing U.S. economic policins after the Cold WaF. 
Owr tho last dncade, America has been in a period of political ascendancy, partly dun to our own succnssns and partly dun to others' failings. Germany, Asia and Brazil havn also becomn morn pownrful, while thn for­mnr Sovint Union, once a great supnrpowor, has declined. 
"The Hussian people havo lived through an economic depression worsn than the Grnat Depression," said Bradley. 
In many ways, said Bradlny, the 20th cnntury was 01111 extondnd war. Tho two World Wars followed by the 45-year long Cold War d~adennd real political dnbatn and instead crnalnd a .eulturn of what thn

The ObseiVer/Job Turner 
Senator tnrmed "politics againstFormer U.S. Senator Bill Bradley talked about the position of "politics 

something." The modern

against something" in which the U.S. was constantly fighting enemies Hepublican party gained pownrsuch as communism and how that resulted in a lack of political and shape through its national­debate. 
ist Anti-Communist movemnnts. 
For some. the end of the Cold War was disconcerting; govern­ment and military personnel involvml in spy and intelligence work suddenly found them­selves without a job or a pur­pose at tho end of the Cold War,




,,,,,,,, 
Bradley said. After such a long period of being "against something," thn

A Benefitfor the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. 
qunstion that must be 
for Breast Cancer Research 

3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK 
AND ~ 
PANCAKE BREAKFAST , SATURDAY, ~CT<)_!JER 10 . 11:00-STEPAN·CENTER 
---.A'llf "~ • 
T-SHIRTS TO'ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 1 . 
. I·' . ,
$6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
answered now, according to around the world. We should Bradley, is "will we once again convey our idnals by example. he able to sustain ourselvns for for "without Ia good examplel. something?" we becomn just anotlwr nation 
With this in mind, Bradley of mnpty words." outlined five new international Bradley's third point was that realities. First, there is no the U.S. should "acknowlmlge longnr a clear division between the lngitimacy of human sneu­domestic and foreign policy -rity" and "follow polides which they continually intermingle provide a betterment of living and affect each other. for the grnatnst number of ptm­
Second. economic. soeial and ple." military policy all interact and Finally, Bradley said that we inf'luence one another. To use should be held accountable for an example givnn by Bradlny, a our actions so that tlw world military built on a bad economy will be a more stabln place. can't project force. The U.S. holds two major 
Next. there is an increasing advantages over the rnst of tlw shift of power worldwide flow­world which kPep it from !wing 
ing away from government and to the pri­vate sector. In 'THE RUSSIAN PEOPLE many coun­
HAVE l:.IVED THROUGH 
tries, Bradley said, CEOs and AN ECONOMIC DEPRESSION 
corporations WORSE THAN THE GREAT are bigger than 
DEPRESSION.'

government and control all the rinancial 
BILL BIIADLHY
resources. The fourth FO//MH/1 U.S. SHNAT0/1 nwlity is that the world has entered a peri­
thr11at1mnd: its nconomy. which is thn most dfident in the world. and its mili­tary tneh nolo­gy. 
"Thn Gulf War was a harbing11r to tho future
I I' II
aiH a arnwe to tlw past," said Bradley. "War will be int:reasingly 

od in which dmnoeradP.s are in betwnt~n machines." charge, and tho linal rnality is Bneausn of this. a country the U.S. has tremnndous power would need to be large, wnalthy and no real enemies in the and vnry tnehnologically world with enough power to advanced to nvm1 ehallnnge the challenge it. U.S. Thn only eountrins which 
In response to these realities, lit thesn critnria are Japan and Bradley stated four principles Hussia, and as long as tlwy stay which he feels should bn their democratic coursns. tlw adhered to when dnciding U.S. U.S. has nothing to worry action. · about. In addition, Bradley 
The U.S. should un-strnssed that our missilo sys­ashamedly and unabashedly tems may soon bo abl11 to pro­embrace idealism" in order to teet other countries from keep hope alive for people aggressors. 
Bradlny advocatns a policy of complete engagemnnt in relating to the rest of thn world. Only by taking an at~l.ivn inter­ns t in tlw issu n s and problnms facing otlwr governments will tlw U.S. maintain its dominant position. 
In conclusion, StHHttor Bradlny outlinnd six objectives for thn Unitnd States. Thn U.S. must maintain its militar:y prn­eminenct1 in the world, ensure a strong interna­tional economy by break­ing down trade barriers and prevent tht~ t~mnr­


WE WILL HOLD AN INFORMATION SESSION AT THE CSC MONDAY, OCTOBER 5 & TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6 7:00p.m. 
APOSTOLIC VOLUNTEERS (708) 524-5985 kilnkacy@email.dom.edu maryanop@aol.com W\I\IW.Sinsinawa.org 
genen of a dominaLlt country on thn Eurasian continent by maintaining good relations and elosn working relationships. 
As long as we rnrnain dependent on sources of oil in tho Porsian Gulf. wn must protnct our intnrnsts thnre. We must pre-empt terrorism and reduct~ weapons of mass dnstruc­tion. and linally. we must usn our unique status to actively broker peace. Senator Bradley idnntified Japan, China, Hussia, Germany and Mexico as the most important coun­
tries for U.S. foreign poli­cy. 
Bradley sumnwd up by saying, "ldnalism should guide our effort and our actions should match our ideals." 
In a question and answer session at the nnd of the lncture, Bradley also disclosed that he would make his dneision whether to run for President in the next nice­lion by the end of this year. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 5, I998 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
It isn't all pressure, however: Male students from Notre Dame also describe the classroom set­ting at Saint Mary's as laid back and group-oriented. The success of the class is dependent upon participation, they said. 
Saint Mary's students also cite pros and cons of males in their classes. 
The women tnnd to agn~e that the male students are an overall positive contribution to the classroom through their points of view and participation. 
"I think it ean be positive," said freshman Jennifer Rea, who takes an acting class which four males attend. "They can also make some students self­conscious to eertain extent." 
Some women said they thought that occasionally having one or more men in the class­room could benefit them after graduation. 
"It is definitely a positive expf)­rienee because tlw real world consists of both male and female viewpoints," said Angela Calcagno, a junior education minor. "Education is an area that needs the male perspective since we will be teaching males after graduation". 

Alternative views do not only come from the male students, but the male professors at Saint Mary's as well. There are 65 men as faculty members, mak­ing up 37 percent of the total faeulty. 
"I don't think I face obstacles in the dassroom because I am a man and the students are 
'EDUCATION IS AN AREA 
THAT NEEDS THE MALE PERSPECTIVE SINCE WE WILL 
BE TEACHING MALES AFTER 
GRADUATION.' 
ANGELA CALCAGNO 

women", said Thomas Bonnell. associate professor of English. 
Male professors at Saint Mary's reveal that the chal­lenges of teaching do not lie in the gender gap. There is no divi­sion of male and female opinion that creates a disturbance in learning, they stressed. 
The major adaptations to teaching are due to the smaller class size, giving students a more active role in what topics are covered and diseussed. 
Beeause of the predominant­ly female class stmeture, pro­fessors do ensure that women's works and points of view are highlighted through­out the semester. 
"There are certain topics which are great to discuss in an all-female setting," said associate professor of sociolo­gy Jeffrey Breese. 
Male professors do not eon­sidcr teaching women very dif­ferent from tflaehing co-eduea­tional or all-male classes. 
"Teaehing is an art and a skill, and a teacher does not change his level of teaehing due to a differenee in gender," said Joseph lncandela, associ­ate professor of religious stud­ies. 
The men of Saint Mary's, both students and professors, attribute their positive 'experi­ences to the welcoming nature of the students. The students at Saint Mary's help encourage others to look beyond gender and see a community depen­dent on cooperation and focused on education. 
"Saint Mary's women really have a voice and it is this voice that makes the community so successful," said Rrr.ese. 

Life 
continued from page I 

euthanasia and capital pun­ishment. The week's activities are intended to promote the idea 

Trustees 
continued from page I 
Assistance available through the Learning Hesource Center, while open to all undergradu­ates, is rarely utilized by upper­level students due to laek of publicity. 
The final concern addressed by the report is Notre Dame's lqck of competitiveness in pres­tigious post-baccalaureate scholarship opportunities. Notre Dame has had only three Rhodes and Marshall scholar­ship winners in the past decade. 
In comparison, Harvard has had 14 in the same time frame. This is not to say that Notre Dame students lack talent, but rather that they do not have access to any assistance in preparing or applying for these scholarships. 
In a survey con~ucted by Student Government. only 20 

Truman, Fulbright or Marshall · scholarships. · 
Committee recommendations to the Board of Trustees induct­ed establishing an Office for Undergraduate Scholarship Opportunities, supporting the development of a new Writing Center and supporting the expansion of the Learning Resource Center in order to provide better support services for all undergraduates. 
The committee also recom­mended that Student Government implement a "Major Decisions" program, work to improve academic advising and publicize academ­ic support programs and post­baccalaureate scholarship opportunities more effectively to all students. The Committee also requested that all profes­sors require drafts of papers to be turned in, creating a culture of "write and re-write" before final revisions are due. 
Massoud feels that improve­ment of Notre Dame's record in post-baccalaureate scholarships 
university outstanding," he said. He is eonfident that the stu­dent body agrees. 
"I was very excited that the Student Senate approved the project unanimouslv. Each dorm approved this t~pic. We have the backing of the entire student body when we speak to the Board of Trustees," Massoud added. 
After last Thursday's presen­tations, Student Government planned to work immediately on the eommittee's recommen­dations, said Student Body Vice-President Andrea Selak. The Board of Trustees will dis­cuss the report and then set its own timetable if it ehooses to mandatory for involvement, and a complete list of all aetivities with dates and times is posted in each dorm. 
The Right to Life dub is i;l pro­life organization with about 500 members which focuses on issues such as abortion, of a right to life from concep­tion until a natural death. 
"We an) trying to get people to respect life in all its forms and to think loi'J situations other than abortion," Szestak said. "We're remembering those who can't fight for themsnlves." 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 13; 1999 
7:30P.M. 
MOREAU CENTER­LITTLE THEATRE 
WE JUST HAVEN'T 
HIRED THEM YET. 




COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Syria fears Turkish invasion 
ANKAIV\ 

With n~ports of Turkish troops massed on Syria's border, l'n~sidnnt Suleyman Demirel on Sunday warned that Turkey would not allow its 1wighhor to eontinue slwltnring Kurdish rdwls. Ankara has indieatnd it is prnrmrNI to send forces across the border to Pradic:atn guPrrilla basns in Syria. which Turk«~y ac:c:us«1S of harboring rebels who wage cross-border attacks. Damascus denies tlu~ rhargP. "I am not only warning Syria, I am warning tlw world. This eannot contin­ue," the Anatolia nnws ageney quoted ll!)mirnl as saying. "Wn arc in a position of snlf-ddnnsn. Tlw situation is S«1rious. Turkey has suiTnrnd for many ynars, and it no longer wants to sufff'r." In an niTort to lwad ofT a military c:onllit:t, 1:gyptian l'residnnt llosni M u ha rak Ill' ld talks Sun day with Syrian l'n•sidnnl llafnz Assad in Damascus and was dun in Turkey latPr this wnnk. 
Brazilians re-elect Cardoso 
HIO DE .JANEIHO 

Fa«:ing an UIH"nrtain economic futurn. Brazilians slu<"k with Llw incumbnnt for the first time in thPir history Sunday and re­l'lect.Pd FPrnando llnnriqLH) Cardoso as presi­d«•nt. «•xit polls show!'d. Cardoso won with 5(, IH'I"I'Pnt of tlw vote compared to 29 pnn:nnt for his closest. rival, fornwr labor leadnr l.uiz lnar.io I.ula da Silva of the Workers !'arty, surVPys «"OIHlurLPd by tlw r11spected lbopo polling institute' said. lbopn questionnd 
54.000 voll•rs nationwidP. Tlw outconw was no surprisP. Cardoso. a 6 7 -ynar-old sociolo­gist. was till' ovPI"Wiwlming favorite in Sunday's national PIPI'lions. getting a boost from votPrs' fpar of a dPPpnning nc:onomir rrisis. "Tiw important thing is not to switch drivl'rs in till' middlP of tlw racn." said \1arrio Kartl', a Hio nPwsstand dPalPr who votl'd for Cardoso. 
Dutch remember crash victims 
AMSTEHDAM 

Familil's ol" l>utrh victims kill«)d wlwn an lsnu·li rargo planP nashed into an apart­llll'nt building in 1992 markPd thn sixth anniVPrsary of llw disastPr Sunday amid new n•vt•lations that till' j1•t was carrying an ingrPdiPnt for llf'rVP gas. .lust yards from llw rrash sill', hundrPds ol" people gatherml to n•mPmlwr t lw 4] JWople killPd wlwn the El AI Boeing jt~t carVPd a nine-story gash in an apartnwnt complt1X on the outskirts of AmstPrdam. Aftnr six years, thn anguish causPd by tlw worst Dutch air disastnr had l)('gun to nase. said somn family membnrs. but lsnwl's l'onlirmation last week that the pla1w was carrying a chl'mical usnd to pro­dtu:e tlw IH'rVP gas sarin has rekindled mem­oriPs. 
Market Watch: 10/2 

Dow 
AMEX: 609.47

}ONES 
+0.97 Up: 
Nasdaq:

7784.69 570 
1614.98 

fl 
+2.6S 
NYSE: 
Down:
498.16 
2176
+7.94 
S&P 500: 1002.60 
Composite
+16.21 

Volume:+152.16 899,600,000 
MOST TRADED STOCKS IIUdi'Atll:i nrKrll 'th Cllb.tll,iE slib.ltll I'Bif:t 
IRAVI UJ(''\(iROUI' LRV +7 1)9 +2.75 iH.~ t.~.NlKAt llll'l'ltlt' <.r -OAI ·O..IrZ5 75.1H7S l.llU'l r.u -4.7.\ -.i.l250 h.i 1 IIA\1' MANII,\rf'Af'; CMI\ +-6.H9 +2.1H75 4.UJ25 t"tl\ii'At2 cr<) . U5 -IU751l 29.b25 \1 lfSIIIIL ARAS ~r·A ..u.n -7.hH75 ll.oH7S lltlMllHI'Of liD ·2 Y4 ·1.0624 25.0625 MtlN'\ANTO Mf< .... 15 ·Z.Z5 5Z MfRRII L LYNCII MF.R -t4.55 +2.0 46 t lilt tlRI' CCI +7.15 +tdllS 94.Sb2S 
• CROATIA 

Pope visits war-torn Balkan peninsula 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
SPLIT 

On a seaside beach packed with pil­grims, Pope John Paul II sought Sunday to hnal the wounds left by war and total­itarian rule in Croatia, and urged the international community to provide "timely help" to end the Kosovo conflict. 
Hundreds of thousands of Roman Catholics jammed a beach outside this Adriatic coastal city for the final Mass of John Paul's three-day trip to Croatia. Scorns of fishing and pleasure boats anchored olfshore sounded their sirens whnn thn pope arrived from the capital, Zagreb. 
Adding to the estimatnd 500,000 peo­ple in attendance were Croat pilgrims from neighboring Montnnegro, the smaller of two remaining Yugoslav republics. who streamed in when the border crossing was opnned Saturday night for the first time since war ended in 1995, state-run Croatian television rnported. 
"Croat<> are today called to give a new face to thnir country. abovfl all by com­mitting themselves to the renewal in society of the nthical and moral values undnnnined by past totalitarianism and by thn rm:nnt violence of war." the pope said. 
"It is an urgent task, for without val­ues there can be no true freedom or democracy." 
Thn frail 78-ycar-old pope appeared in gnnerally good form. but his voice was weak by the end of the nearly thrPo-hour Mass. An aide held up a white umbrella to shield him from the bright sun as he sat on an altar.facing tlw sna. lin returned to Homn late Sunday. 
Hnconr.iliation and the renewal of val­uns wern high on the pope's agenda during his slay. The breakup of Yugoslavia sparknd a civil war in 1991 that left ovm· 10,000 dead and thou­sands missing bdore the 1995 Dayton Accords nnded the fighting. 
the violence, and said he hoped the architectural masterpincns. "llow canTlw big crowd was quiet as the pope international community would "provide wn not fed regret for this?"
dPiivnred his homily, but applauded its timely help" to achieve those goals. About 80 percent of Croatia's 4.7 mil­when lw spokll of Kosovo. 
Thn pope made no mention or threaL'i lion pnople are Catholic, and the Vatican .John Paul said he was following with by NATO to stage airstrikes if the Serbs looks at the country as a Catholic bas­
"anxious concern the continuing 
continue their aggression against the tion in the Balkans, amid Orthodoxtragedy" in the region of Yugoslavia, ethnic Albanians. Christians in Serbia and Muslims inabout 240 miles southeast of Croatia, John Paul also spoke of the damage Bosnia.
where Sorb l'orens have staged a bloody inflicted during the civil war on Croatia's "It is important to look beyond thecrackdown on ntlmic Albanian sepa­Dalmatian coast. and particularly its art trauma or the war, and the pope is hereratists. 
and cultural treasures. to oxpress his wish that we drawlie said, "mutual respect. forgiveness "The eye of man can no longnr mjoice strnngth from our religion," said Anitaand reconciliation" were needed to stop in them," the pope said of losses to Bosnic, a university student. 


Ford: Clinton deserves censure 
AssociATED PRESs 
NEW YORK 

Ropublican leaders are raising eyebrows over a call by former President Gerald Ford for Congress to rebuke President Clinton. 
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott told ABC it would tako things out of order to issue a rebuke before deter­mining what. if any. offenses tlw president has commit­ted. 
House Judiciary Chairman Henry Hyde told NBC hn doesn't see much chance of punishing Clinton with a rebuktl. Hyde's panel will be in charge of any inquiry into impeachable offenses. 
Ford's proposal is in an 
op-ed piece in Sunday's New York Times. He says President Clinton should appear in the well of the House and receive a "harsh· ly worded rebuke'' from Congress this year for his affair with Monica Lewinsky. 
Breaking his silence on Clinton, Ford said Clinton should nppear before Congress and "accept full responsibility for his actions, as well as for his subsequent efl'orts to delay or impede tho investigation of them." 
"No spinning, no seman· tics, no evasiveness or blam­ing others for his plight," the former Republican president wrote in an op-ed piece in the Times. 
"Let all this be done with­out partisan exploitation or mean-spiritedness. Let it b~1 dignified, honest and, above all, cleansing. The result, I believe, wouJd be the first moment of majesty in an otherwise squalid year." 
Ford said an apology would be inadequatt~ and a fine would trivialize Clinton's misconduct. 
He said thtl House Judiciary Committee should finish a preliminary inquiry into possible grounds l'or impeachment by the end of the year. Afterward. he said, the House might consider his proposal as a substitute for proceeding with the impeachment process. 
"Imagine a very different kind of Presidential nppear­anee in the closing days of this year, not at the rostrum familiar to viewers from moments of triumph. but in the well of' the House. Imagine a President receiv­ing not an ovation from the people's representatives. but a harshly worded rebuko as rendered by members of both parties." 
Ford said Clinton has bro­ken faith with the electorate. 
"At 85. I have no porsonnl or political ag(mda, nO!' do I have any interest in 'reseu­ing' Bill Clinton," said Fore!. who pardoned Hichard Nixon in 1974 from any pos­sible criminal charges after he resigned in the face of impeachment. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 5, 1998 
Statesmen: Cooperation necessary for Irish 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Associate News Editor  more optimistic outlook in Ireland in the last few years.  Clinton was the "final breaking down of the barrier between  and involvement in the peace process are indicative of the  "Finally the two communities are seeing things not as a zero­ 
He recalled a sense of despair  the U.S. government and Sinn  morale  shift  in  Northern  sum  game ...  but  as  a  joint  
New York congressman Pete  in his visits to the island in the  Fein," according to King.  Ireland in recent years. In con­ interest,"  said  Hennessy.  
King and Patrick Hennessy of  1980s and the existence of  "That really did break that  trast to the despair he wit­ "There's a  feeling  - which  
the Irish Embassy spoke Friday  what he felt was an imbalanced  log-jam,"  he  nessed in the  wouldn't  have  been  there  
on the need for psychological  perception of the conflict.  said  saying  1980s,  King  before  - that a  way will be  
as well as political cooperation  "I thought it was wrong to  that in recog­ described  a  found."  
to achieve a peaceful settle­ment in the Northern Ireland conflict.  focus on the violence of the I.R.A. and ignore that of the Royal Ulster Constabulary and  nizing Sinn Fein in such a way, Clinton  'THERE WERE UNDER­CURRENTS IN  sense of reju­venation at present. Not  "Ireland can be used as a source of inspiration for other places," said King.  
"I believe its going to work," King said about the Good Friday Peace Accord. "It's a tremendous psychological step  the British Government," said King. Despite the existence of seemingly legitimate claims on both sides of the conflict, nego­ caused both sides to re­evaluate their relative posi- NoRTHERN IRELAND, GREAT BRITAIN AND THE UNITED STATES THAT CULMINATED IN  only are the troops off the streets, but in contrast, resi­ Hennessy presented three points of the process that may be useful in conflicts in other parts of the world. The first  
forward."  tiation and resolution was at a  tions.  As  a  BRINGING ABOUT A  dents of some  was involving all the parties in  
He explained that one of the benefits of the accord is the  virtual impasse until the early 90s. The Irish and British  powerful third party, Clinton  SETTLEMENT.'  of the most hard-hit areas  discussions and avoiding pre­conditions for participation.  
breaking down of certain mind­sets which result from the ten­dency of both Catholics and  Governments were publicly "locked in place." although it is now known that secret meet­ was a symbol in the process that could  PETE KING CONGRESSMAN  may see the presiden tia I motorcade dri- Another was the valuable role of an outside mediator, such as Mitchell, and the last was the  
Protestants in the North to stay  ings did occur during this peri­ attract  sup­ ving through  setting of a time limit, which in  
in their communities, never  od.  port from both sides, he said.  their neighborhoods.  this case was 10 weeks follow­ 
witnessing the conditions of  "There were undercurrents  "Once the U.S. made its com­ "Ultimately it's up to the peo­ ing  an  18-month "venting"  
their neighbors. "The agreement seeks to put  in Northern Ireland, Great Britain and the United States  mitment to stay involved, that was Jerry Adams' trump card  ple of Ireland to resolve," said King.  period. "Despite my differences with  
institutions and structures in  that culminated in bringing  to convince the I.R.A. to agree  Hennessy stressed that the  the President on the Irish issue,  
place to run things on a joint  about a settlement," King said.  to a cease fire," said King.  result of the Spring referendum  the President has applied him­ 
basis," Hennessy said. This  "There is now a correct diag­ Prior to the visa, the I.H.A. was  was a source of hope for all  self 1,000 percent," said King.  
means equal access to educa­ nosis of the problem," said  reluctant and lacked confi­ concerned.  "I don't know if our position  
tion, housing and employment. The establishment of the  Hennessy. He described it as a conflict between two minori­ dence in lasting support from any government. The action by  "The vast majority of people in both Northern Ireland and  is firmly enough in place to survive the removal of this  
North-South Council is one  ties: the unionist and mainly  Clinton and the commitment of  the Republic want this to suc­ president," King concluded  
such structure that will be put  Protestant minority  on  the  Senator George Mitchell to the  ceed," he said. Over 95 percent  when asked about the effect of  
in  place  as  a  result of the  island, and the nationalist and  process quelled many of those  in the Republic and 70 percent  current  distractions  in  
agreement. There is also a specific provi­ mostly Catholic minority within Northern Ireland. The gap  fears. Adams and Sinn Fein were  in the North voted in favor of the agreement.  Washington resulting from the Lewinsky ordeal.  
sion to ensure adequate consid­ between the two groups has  recognized as legitimate by  
erations of human rights pro­ narrowed to approximately 52  Clinton and the U.S. govern­ 

tections by pretesting new laws percent to 48 percent respec­ment, thus forcing the against a human rights check­tively: "You have to get away Unionists to recognize them as 
Notze 'L)ame 'J-ilm, Clelet~islon, and Clheatze pzesents
list. Hennessy warned that from the winner takes all men­well. King described Blair as there is a risk of a lack of confi­tality." "totally committed to reforming dence which could emerge if He explained that progress British policy in Northern the points of the deal are not should be focused "not so much Ireland." 
Wed., Oct. 7

carried out. to reduce the gap between cul­Hennessy described the rela­"Whether or not there is a tures but to get each communi­tive cohesion of the parties as a 
7:30p.m. 

united Ireland de jure, there ty to recognize the importance "zone of stability to create an will certainly be a united of both unique cultures." environment where issues of 
Thurs., Oct. 8 

Ireland de facto," King said. The January 1994 granting of sovereignty can be debated in a 
7:30p.m.

Many of the recent develop­a visa to Sinn Fein leader, rational way." ments have resulted from a Jerry Adams, by President Bill Clinton's subsequent visits 
Fri., Oct. 9 
7:30p.m. 
Sat., Oct. 10

COBA sponsors Wall Street Forum 
7:30p.m. 
Sun., Oct. 11

about career opportunities potential in Notre Dame stu­
By JENNIFER COLEMAN and culture of their respec­dents, who have proven to be 

2:30p.m.

News Writer tive firms throughout the not only above average in intelligence but also very eth­
Playing at
Wall Street firms will pre­country. sent career information in a Washington
"The Wall Street Forum is ical. series of discussions, presen­
an excellent opportunity for "This is a trait that many students to gain a better firms are looking for, but are Hall 
tations and company show­understanding of what some finding harder and harder to

cases at the second annual Reserved Seats $9 Wall Street Forum, scheduled 
of the leading Wall Street find," said Doyle. 
Seniors $8

for Oct. 7, in the Jordan firms do and opportunities The Wall Street Forum also 
Auditorium of the College of that exist there for them," gives a resume book to eaeh All Students $6 Business Administration. said senior finance major company that comes to the forum. To be added to the
"It's geared towards under­Steffen Doyle. Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call631·8128 
"Big name firms are here book, drop off resumes at 102
graduates. MBAs and gradu­

ate students," said Kim because they see a lot of COBA by Monday afternoon. 

Duncan, president of the MBA Investment Banking Club. "It is open to anyone. It's a great networking opportunity that anyone can attend. The com­panies want to see you." 
Duncan expects a good turnout for the event, which serviced 376 students last year. 
"It was great because it gives students a chance to learn more about an industry that they may not know much about," Duncan said. 
The forum consists of 
overview sessions of different 
industries, including invest­
ment banking, commercial 
banking and asset manage­
ment from 3-5 p.m. 
From 5:15-6:30 p.m., there 
will be roundtable discussion 
dinners with company repre­
sentatives for students that 
sign up in advance. 
Practical sessions are 
scheduled from 6:30-8:15 
p.m., including job and 
internship opportunities for 
business and non-business 
majors. 
The evening will end with 
individual sessions for each 
company to have the opportu­
nity to educate students 



Attention Sophomores 
Class Dinner 
Tuesday, October 6 6:00 -8:00pm with Who's yo Daddy Price $2.00 All you can eat subs Class shirts $10.00 
Check out class web page at www.nd.edu/-classOl 


Monday, October 5, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

7:30 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 

The University ofNotre Dame welcomes 
CVinko [ardina( Pu{jic 


Archbishop of Sarajevo 
Re·cipient ofthe 1998 Notre Dame Award 
Members of the University community and the general public are invited to the ceremonies marking the conferral of the award, 
Wednesday, October 7,1998 
Presentation of the Notre Dame Award Auditorium, The Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Public Reception for Cardinal Puljic The Great Hall, The Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Music by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
Pleasejoin us in honoring aman Icfpeace 
. -... ~ ... --.. -........ -........ , __ .·4 -_............ loo ..... 

~-~­
page 8 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 5, 1998 
What will be your statement? To swing a hammer on top of the Berlin Wall and help entrepreneurs break through ... to see a pony on a shirt and help it influence culture ... to move a computer company from dorm room to boardroom. Make a mark with your mind. 
GoldJnan 

Sa<11S 

MINDS. WIDE OPEN.SM www.gs.com 
'T'Tfi';:nv'!':f/)TTQW(f A (ll NT ........".rn ..rT
' ., 
Monday, October 5. 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 




Gerald --;:F~o_r_d~r-e--:-b-u~k~e:.::..::.:_s~C~l~in~to~n~~.=sw=,Tz==eRLA==No===================~~ 
Bush, Carter express concern about Lewinsky sex scandal 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK Bn p u h I iea n I n ad n r s a rr~ 
raising nynbrows ovtH' a call by fornwr l'rnsidnnt c;nrald Ford for Congrnss to rnbukr~ 1'1'1\Sidnnt Clinton. 
S•~ n a l!~ Majority L n ad n r Tnmt Lott told ABC it would takn things out or ordnr to issut• a rt~bukt~ lwforP dntnr­mining what. if any, olTnnsr\s tho prnsidnnt has committed. 
llousn Judiciary Chairman llnnry llydr~ told NBC hn doPsn't SPP much ehancn of punishing Clinton with a rPbukn. llydn's panni will bn in chargn of any inquiry into impnadwbln oiTnnsns. 
t:ord 's proposal is in an op­Pd piPcn in Sundav's Nnw York T i 111 I' s. II n says Prt~ s i d n n t Clinton should appnar in llw wnll of tht~ llousl' and recnivr~ a "harshly wordnd rnbukn" from Congrnss this ynar for 
his  affair  with  Monica  
I.Pwinskv.  
Brt~ a k.in g  his  s iInn cn  on  

Clinton. Ford said Clinton should appnar hnforn Congrnss and "acenpt full rnsponsihility for his actions. as wPII as for his subsnqunnt niTorls to dnlay or impnde thn invr~sligation of tlwm." 
"No spinning, no snmantics, no nvasivnness or blaming otlwrs for his plight." thn for­m n r Hn publican prr~sid n n t wrote in an op-ml piece in the Tinws. 
"Let all this be done without partisan nxploitation or mean­spiritedness. Let it be digni­fied. honnst and. above all. ciP.ansing. Tho result, I believe, would be the first momnnt of majnsty in an oth­nrwise squalid year." 
Ford said an apology would he inadequate and a fine would trivialize Clinton's mis­conduct. 
lin said the llousn Judiciary Conunitlnn should linish a prn­lirninary inquiry into possible grounds for impeachment by the end of the ynar. Afterward, he said, tho llousc might con­sidnr his proposal as a substi­tutn for procnnding with thn impnadmwnt process. 
"Imagine a very different kind of Prnsidnntial appear­ance in the dosing days of this year. not at the rostrum famil­
' ~ T 85 I HAVE NO PER­
ftsoNAL OR POLITICAL AGENDA, NOR DO I HAVE ANY INTEREST IN 'RESCUING' BILL CLINTON. BUT I DO CARE, PASSIONATELY, ABOUT RESCUING THE COUNTRY I LOVE FROM FlJRTHER TUR­MOIL OR UNCERTAINTY.' 
GERALD Fmw FOllMER PRESIDENT 
iar to viewr.rs from moments of triumph. but in the well of the House. Imagine a Prnsident mceiving not an ova­tion from the people's repre­scntatives, but a harshly word­ed rebuke as rendered by members of both parties." 
Ford said Clinton has broken faith with the electorate. 
"At 85, I have no pnrsonal or political agrmda, nor do I have any interest in 'rescuing' Bill Clinton," said Ford, who par­doned Riehard Nixon in 1974 from any possible criminal chargns after he resigned in the race or impeachment. "But I do care. passionately, about rescuing the criuntry I love from further turmoil or uncer­tainty." 
, In a separate story, special counsel to thr. president, Gregory Craig, told the paper he welcomed Ford's comments and did not rule out the possi­bility of a rebuke. 
"Gerald Ford is a man who has been there, who under­stands a situation like this and understands the importance of deferring to constitutional standards under all circum­
stances," he said.  
Last  month,  two  former  
presidents  spoke  out  on  
Clinton's behavior.  

Jimmy Carter said he had "deplored and been deeply embarrassed about" Clinton's behavior with Lewinsky. 
He predicted the House would vote to impeach Clinton but the Senate would not "marshal the two-thirds vote that will be required to rPmove thr. president." 
George Bush said he was reluctant to criticize Clinton but, when pressed to answer whether Clinton had dimin­ished thr office of the presi­dent, he said, ''I'm afraid, for now, it has been diminished." lie quickly added that the office is strong, "bigger than 
any one person." 


Save the earth! Recycle the Observer! 

For time and location of Ineeting, call: 1-8041 NDGLS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 


Swiss president Delamuraz dies 
Associated Press 
BERN 

Former Swiss president and economics minister Jean­Pascal Delamuraz died Sunday, the Swiss govern­ment announced. He was 62. 
Delamuraz died of a can· cer-related illness at a hospi­tal in Lausanne, six months after he left office for health reasons, Swiss television reported. 
Born in Paudex, near Lausanne, in 1936, he studied law and political science at the University of Lausanne. 
Delamuraz was elected president of Switzerland, a largely ceremonial post, in 1989 and 1996. 
He prompted an interna­tional outcry last year when he said demands for a multi­million-dollar fund to com­pensate Jews who lost assets in the Holocaust amounted to blackmail. 
The remark was a public relations debacle for the country and Delamuraz even­tually apologized for it. 
The Swiss government sub­sequently proposed a $5 bil­lion fund for a range of humanitarian causes, includ· ing victims of' the Holocaust. 
Delamuraz joinHd thH s~w€ln­member Federal Council, or cabinet, as defense minister in 1984 and was economir~s minister f'rom1987 until his resignation earlier this year. 
He belonged to the centrist Radical Democrats, one of four parties in the governing coalition that shares the cabi~ net seats. 
The popular Dnlamuraz took Switzerland into the World Trude Organization, but suffered a setback in 1992 when the Swiss elec­torate voted against joining a loose European free trade grouping. The government then froze an application to join the more closfJiy knit 15 nation European Union, which surrounds the eountrv. 
Delamuraz !Aft of'fiee ·in March this year after announcing in January that, for health reasons, lw was no longer certain he could carry out his duties. 
Last year, he underwent an operation for livet· eancer. He had heart operations in 1992 and 1995. 
Delamut'al. is surviv~~d hy his wife, Catherine, and their son and daughter. Details of f'uneral anangements were not immediately available. 

• BRAZil 

Cardoso edges close to election victory 
Associated Press 
RIO DE JANEIRO 

Facing an uncertain econom­ic future, Brazilians appeared to be sticking with the incum­bent for the first time in their history Sunday and re-elected Fernando Henrique Cardoso as president, early official results showed. 
With 28.9 million votes, or 27 percent of the total count­ed, Cardoso had 51.3 percent and former labor leader Luiz Inacio "Lula" da Silva of the Workers Party had 33.9 per­cent. 
According to exit polls con­ducted by the respected lbope polling institute, Cardoso should win with 56 percent of the vote compared to 29 per­
cent for da Silva. Ibope ques­
tioned 54,000 voters nation­
wide. 
Experts considr.r exit polls more accurate than early vote counts. 
"It's very good for Brazil that the president has reer1ived this mandate from the Brazilian people and that he ean now do what is nenderl to protect the real (the local currency) and the Brazilian people," Foreign Minister Luis Felipe Lampreia · told reporters in Brasilia. 

The apparent outcome was no surprise; Cardoso, a 6 7 -year-old sociologist, was the overwhelming favorite in Sunday's national elections, getting a boost from voters' fear of a deepening economic crisis. 
In__ The Cushwa Center for thec:::! Study of American Catholocism
lJF 
presents 

11 Apologia Pro Vita Sua: The Debate About Incarnational Humanism" 
Michael Novak 
Chair in Religion and Public Policy at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C., and author of many books, including The Unmeltab/e Ethnics, The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism and Will It Liberate? 
Tuesday, October 6, 1998, 7:30pm Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 
Responding to Mr. Novak is Eugene B. McCarraher, assistant brofessor of history at the University of Delaware. In March 1998, he presented a paper for the Cushwa Center entitled: '"They Were Simply Not My People': Michael Novak, Catholic Social Thought and Post-Industrial Liberalism, 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OB~ERVER Monday, October 5, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame. IN 46556 {219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR"  .... Michelle Krupa  ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPartlin  
VIEWPOINT EDITOR  ......... Eduardo Llull  AD DESIGN MANAGER.  .. ......... Brett Huelat  
SPORTS EDITOR...  . ........ Kathleen Lopez  SYSTEMS MANAGER  ...... Michael Brouillet  
SCENE EDITORS...  . ............. Sarah Dylag  CoNTROllER ............................... Dave Rogero  
Krisri Klirsch  WEB ADMINISTRATOR....  .. .... Jennifer Breslow  
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan  GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella  
PHOTO EDITOR  .  . .......... Kevin Dalum  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe Universiry ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edicari«Js represent the opinion of rhe majority of the 
Ediwr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing EditOr ~nd department editors. Commentaries,leners and columns present the views of rhc authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
through letters is encouraged. Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising News/Photo 631-5323 Systems Sports 631-4 543 Fax Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail Office Manager/Generallnformation 631-7471 News E-Mail 
-
631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• AGRAIN OF WHEAT 

The Poor Cry Out 
Deborah Gaines, after fmishing a cigarette outside the Preterm Health Services Clinic in Brookline, Massachusetts, steps inside the clinic where she is to receive an abortion of her seven week fetus. Gunshots explode in the clinic lobby and a crazed gunman is now chasing Gaines out of the clinic, firing at her. The bullets fly around Gaines and she manages to escape the gunman when she jumps throug!J a gate. The gunman yells to her, "Sorry I missed you." 
The gunman, John Salvi, Ill, a para­noid schizophrenic, was on a shooting spree. He began his rampage at Planned Parenthood where he killed Shannon Lowney and injured three others. He proceeded to Preterm where he killed Lee Ann Nichols and injured two others. Salvi was arrested the following day after he fired 23 shots at an abortion clinic in Norfolk, Virginia. 
At trial, Salvi said that he wanted the death penalty, though the state in which he was charged, Massachusetts, had none. But federal prosecutors were considering bringing charges against Salvi and seeking the death penalty. In the end, Salvi was given two life sentences without the possibility of parole. But Salvi's wish for death came eight months after he was sentenced. Salvi was found dead in his prison cell of an apparent suicide. 
Traumatized by Salvi's violence that fateful day at Preterm, Gaines never sought an abortion. Today her daugh­ter, Vivian, is three years old and Gaines has recently brought a "Wrongful Birth" lawsuit against Preterm, alleging that Preterm should have foreseen the possibility of violence aimed at the clinic and should have taken reasonable security measures to prevent such violence. Had they done so, Gaines says that she would have obtained her abortion. Gaines is seek­ing damages for the expenses of rais­ingVivian . 

WhenGaines found out that shewas pregnant with Vivian, her fourth child, she was on welfare and had just start­ed studying for her G.E.D. She was hoping that she would get a job soon. 
Maureen 

Kramlich 

______:========----­
-

Since Vivian's birth, Gaines has held several jobs, but she continues to 
'"J'1HE POOR CRY Our FOR 
I JUSTICE, AND WE 
RESPOND WITH LEGAUZED 
ABORTION.' 
-Graciela Olivarez 

struggle financially and hopes that 
winning the lawsuit will bring her 
some financial security. 
Gaines's fellow Bostonians have had much to say in response to her lawsuit: 
Who does Deborah Gaines think she is? If she wanted an abortion, she would've gone to another clinic. 
I am against individuals who feel it necessary to blame society for their personal problems and then expect someone else to pay for them -even if it means using a tragic event where people lost their lives. 
This woman knows how to milk the system for every available dime. Social Security Disability and lawsuit settle­ments have become the new feeding troughs for welfare queens and lawyers. 
At the time, Gaines was raising three children on welfare. Apparently the option of persQnal responsibility never occurred to her. 
The public response to Deborah Gaines's lawsuit is captured best by Graciela Olivarez-a pro-life feminist, charter member of the National Organization for Women and Notre Dame Law School's first woman gradu­ate. Olivarez once said: "The poor cry out for justice, and we respond with legalized abortion." 
Olivarez was lamenting the fact that 
in the United States, abortion is often offered as a quick and dirty solution for poverty. 
A not insignificant Polish philoso­pher, who resides in Rome, has said that we are living in a "Culture of Death." The extent of this "Culture of Death" is well illustrated by the events surrounding Preterm Health Services: The killing of the unborn, the violence wrought by Salvi, Salvi's desire for the death penalty, the federal prosecutor's possibly seeking the death penalty. 
Salvi's suicide is the "Wrongful Birth" suit'which is prPmised on the notion that human life is disposable.and the response of those who think the solution to poverty is eliminating the poor. 
The poor cry out for justice. 
Maureen Kramlich is a "Double Domer" a member ofthe University of Notre Dame Class of 1997 and the Notre Dame Law School Class of2000. She admits almost full responsibility for the Partial Birth Abortion-Senator Bradley ad that appeared on page 24 ofFriday's Observer. 1/er email address is maureen.kramlich.l@nd.e'du and website address is www.nd.edu/-mkramlic. 
The views expressed in this column are those ({{the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
COR!?&CT.
Ne'Re BACK ANI? a-tAT­
.I'M ONA

TING IA/ITH PR£61/?1'3NTlA/.... 'Jf rationality were the
G'Tf?£AK.
HOP/3RJ/..-G£()1<t313tf/. BUSH 

MYGOJ!? criterion for things
A80UT7H& M/399/N 
~AVA?R

IA/A5H!NGJON... being allowed to exist, the
577<5T0£6

I ~TH& world would be one, gigan­
IIIAY84CI< 

tic field of soya beans!
701994. 
-Tom Stoppard 



VIEWPOINT 
Monday, October 5, 1998 
----~------------------------------------------page II 
• AVOICE JN THE WtlOERNESS • CAPPY' S COLUMN 

A Call for Unity 
Another Side of the Battle for the Truth 
Heading this Vinwpoint column IHU~h day and obsPrving tlu~ battle wagnd lwt.wnnn left and right. lilwrals and conservativns, orw begins to worull'r: Dons truth about thnsn mattnrs wally 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!exist? 
Most rnfusn to rec­
Kim 
ognize any uni­versal 

stan­dard by _____:=======----refer­
once to which tlw soundrwss and validity of argumnnts might lw dPfnndnd. 1\s a result. debatns havn bl'l'llmn a battle of wills. mern assertions of sub­jr~ctivn lwlids. In the end, no onn wins; nach party is IPf'l to walk away eithnr in d1~1'nat, say­ing, "you havn your b1~1ids. I havn mine," or in shallow vic.tory. having mnrnly persuaded some­on!~ of tlwir opinion. 
lrH·ommPnsurabln arguments such as thnsn arP pPrhaps to lw expneted from "the real world," but lwre at tlw University of Notrn Damn, wlwrn (tlmost X5 pnr­cent of tlw studPnts are Cat.holir. ought not orw be 

Leatherby 
"whatever you bind," and because the Church calls for ob.ndinnen in a.II matters of dogma, faith. and morals, we need bll loyal in all. 
We as Catholics cannot. then. discriminate which of ller laws to abide by; such discrimina­tion is not "l'aith," properly defined. As St. Thomas Aquinas ---doetor of the Church -­taught, he who professes faith cannot reject one, even one. artiele of faith (11-11, 5.3, R), for then it is not assent to God's Bnvnlation, but only an acceptance of that which snems rational. It is not faith but "a kind of opinion in accordance with (one's) own will." (Ibid.) Rejecting a doc­trine of thn Church is in effect saying that She is f1awed, that She can err, and therefore is not divinnly instituted. II' the Church is fallible on its teachings regarding, say, contraception and euthanasia, how can one assent to believing any of tho other truths Shn teaches? By denying an article of faith, we in ef'feet deny Her authority and makn ourselves jupges of moral "rightness," becoming either proponents of a dnmocratic church or of r·elativism. Moreover, are we not thereby assuming that Jesus has not kept true to His promises to rnmain with Her? Are we for­getting Ihat lie sent the Spirit of Truth to guidn 
us (.In 15:12) and teach us all 
things (Jn 14:25)? Let us not say 
that Our Lord has forsaknn I lis 

able to hopn for sonw gnnuinn vow, evnn though His t<~aehings
B
y DENYING AN ARTI· consnnsus? h1r, as Pope .John seem hard to accept. Instead. let CLE OF FAITH, WE IN
Paul II stated in The .\'plene/or us take on the basis of faith all c~f' Truth. as Christians we EFFECT DENY HER (THE the truths put for,th by the havn "tlw dndsivl' answnr to Church, whose members wn pro­
CHURCH] AUTHORITY AND
nvPry onl' of man's questions. fess to be. his rPiigious and moml quns­MAKE OURSELVES JUDGES OF It is indend disheartnning that tions in particular" in tho pnr­the truth about these issues can
MORAL "RIGHTNESS,"
son of ".Jesus Christ" (VS, 2). not be obtained from each of the Furtlwrmon•, as Catholics, we BECOMING EITHER PROPo­professnd Catholics on campus. havn access to tlw "fullness of One can only assume that many
NENTS OF A DEMOCRATIC 
truth" as rr~vnaled to us in tlw faculty and administration are "moral tnaching based upon CHURCH OR OF RELATIVISM. unfamiliar with Ad Tuendam 
Sacrr~d Scripture and tlw liv­
ing Apostolic Tradition (5)." 
From wlwncn arise thn 
dPIJates. tlwn" 
I'Prhaps many who prof1~ss to be Catholics do not understand what is meant by this "being Catholic" and what faith requires of a Catholic? Tlwy suppose that Catholieism is a sort of salad­bar from which they r.an pick and choose that whirh is most palatable, n~jncting Church posi­tions on such things as illicit snxual relations, abortion and wonwn's ordination, which are morn diflkult to swallow. It seems that we have forgotten what tlw nature of true faith is; name­ly, that it is not some "solnction process" where­in our hnliel:-;, pnrsonal opinions and subjnetive f1wlings nnjoy free reign, but rather an obedient acceptanr.r~ ol' the tnaehings of Christ, in that we lwlinvr~ llim to be the Son of God. Thus, although this column is found in the Viewpoint snction of The Observer, what we would like to presnnt is not a "vinw" but the THUTII ... truth about faith. tlw Church and llnr divine institu­tion. in hopns that it will shod light on thesn "dif'lieult" teachings. For those who might havn l'orgottnn. these ordinancns Shn upholds are not fahricatnd by an archaic and prudish hierarchy, but tlu~y are the laws of (;mi. as rnr.orded in Sacred Scripture and taught by Jesus. llis Apostlns and tlwir successors. 
Christ. on lnaving this 11arth. did not (nave us orphans. Knowing that we would nnnd divine assistance to mach Ilnaven. lin foundnd on l'etl\1" (the Hor.kl a Church with whom lie promisnd always to n~main (.Jn 14: 17), guaran­teeing that "the powers of hell (would) not pro­vail against" llnr (Mt 1(>:18). lndend, lin formed with llis Church both a rnlationship of head to body !Col I: IXl and. evnn more beautiful. onn of tlw marriag1~ r.ovenant. Thn Church, as His spousn IEph 5::{ 1-2) is one with llim, and prn­servr~d from er-ror bncause lin, hnr bridegroom, can have no stain of sin. 
Tlw authority of tlw Chureh rests upon the vnry Truth of Christ. Wn can be obedinnt, then, to the Church and Iter Magisterium, not blindly, hut out ol' confidence that we arn obndient to Christ. For 111~ lmstowed this power upon Peter and I lis succ1~ssors. whnn lie handnd over the "keys of tlw kingdom of lwavnn" and promised to bind in Heaven what Peter would bind on earth, and loose in heaven whatever Peter would loosn on earth (Mt 16:19)." lie said Fidem, in which the Magisterium 
addr!lsses all those who are 
involved either directly or indi­
t·ectly in passing on thn faith, declaring that "whoever denies a truth which must be believed with divine and catholic faith, or who calls into doubt, or who totally repudiates the Christian faith, and does not retract after having been legitimately warned, is to be punished as a heretic or an apostate with a major excommuni­cation; a cleric mor11over can be punished with other penalti1~s. not excluding deposition." Perhaps if the shepherds would heed the call to obedience, the l'lock would follow. 
And once we have humbly taken on the yoke (Mt II :29) of obedi!lnee, the light will be given us to see just how "reasonable" are the laws of God. For understanding does not come prior to faith, but rather faith precedes understanding. To truly receive complete understanding of the Church, it is first necessary to submit in obedi­ence to Her. God does not speak to the proud, but reveals His truths to "babes" (Mt 11 :25). We encourage and plead with you, then, to give thn assent of faith! If you will embark on this jour­ney through the wilderness with us, future arti­cles will provide for believers the reasons for the Church's seemingly controversial teachings, demonstrating how they follow clearly and nec­essarily from Christ's words and the Church's most basic principles. Instead of presenting our own opinions, we will draw directly from the Catechism and other authentic documents. 
We have such a mother in the Church! Let us be unitnd to her and each other, that labels such as "conservative" and "liberal," and positions of the "right" and of the "left" can be discarded, and solutions for thesn incommensurable argu­mllnts found. 

The author of this column is: A Voice in the Wilderness. !\ Voice in the Wilderness consists of Kimberly Leatherby. senior Philosophy/Theology major; Katrina Ten h'yck. junior PLS major; Laura Yanikoski. junior Philosophy/Government major; and Courtney White, sophomore /Jiochemistry major. 
The views expressed in this column are thos of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Determinism and Athletic Recruiting at Notre Dame 
Last week I learned that Zak Kustok opted to transfer to a college where he might bll able to gain a starting quar­terback berth. I have met Zak on a couple of oceasions and found him to be a line young man. lie will be a credit to whichever college is fortunate to acquire his services. I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~=join Coach Davie in wishing all the best for Zak.


Cappy 
Zak had the misfortune of competing with three other


Gagnon 
superb quarter­-----========:._ ___ backs, eaeh of
whom held an edge on him in combining running and throwing skills. But, I wonder if Nominal Determinism might bn the mal reason why Zak fell to fourth string. 
More than 25 years ago, I assistnd noted Criminologist. Dick Kieckbush (ND '67) in his pioneering rnsearch into Nominal Determinism. Dick had observed that thorn was a remarkable correlation between the names of athlntns and the positions they play1~d and the sucenss they achinved. To put it simply, you are destined to achieve no more than your name. Think about it. 
Babe Ruth is in the llall of Fame; Wayne Tnrwilliger and Ilerbie Plews were career utility inf'ielders. Try calling someone named Terwilliger "The Sultan of Swat" or "Thn Bambino." 
Wilt Chamberlain once scored 100 points in an NBA game. The man who held him to 50 baskets was Darrell Imhoff. This was no contest. Wilt was "The Stilt." Darrell was a stiff. Adrian Dantley was thn best basketball player in Notre Dame history. Myron Schuckman was one of his teammates. !lave you ever heard him paged in an airport? 
Could Dick Butkus have played the violin? Who was faster, Raghib Ismael or Pete Chryplevicz'? Whid1 brings us to Zak. Someone aspiring to follow in the footsteps of Angelo Bertelli ("The Springfield Hif1e") and Joe Montana ("The Comeback Kid") cannot be called Zak. Or Kustok. Those are linebacker namns. And what kind of a nick­name can you give him? 
Conversely, Jarious Jackson is a quarterback name you can work with Aetion Jackson, J-Hoek, etc. Thn name Jarious conjures up someone maneuvering in the back­field and evading tacklers while looking for an open receiver. 
Nominal Determinism also handed the number onll back-up job to Arnez Battle. Arnez scores with both names. lie is destined for greatness. lie would have to be clever, lithe and slithery. And what better last name for a Notre Dame warrior! 
I have seen Eric Chappell on tho bookstore basketball courts. He truly fits his namn. lie is a marvelously nuid athlete. I bet he's a good dancer. Nominal Detnrminism suggests that he may someday have to move to wide receiver or free safety to take full advantage of the pre­destination of his name. 
There are some fine looking Nominal Dntnrminism names on this year's football team. Doctor Kieckbush and I agreed that Autry Denson was a "can't miss" player, as soon as we learned he was being recruited, and that he was a running back. Denson is especially fortunate to have Desmond Robinson for his backfield coach. Mrs. Hobinson knew her son was going to be wise and virile. She prepared him well. 
. Defensive end Grant Irons, son of a long-time NFL star, is obviously destined for greatness. Who do you think is tougher, Grant Irons or Jeremy Irons? Grant's dad knnw there weren't any football stars named Biff. either. Hocky Boiman is going to make some rib-crunching tackles next year. Deke and Ajani are the kind of names you want in your back line defense. And it's not a coineidcnen that the initials of the Purdue game-saver are T.D. Nominal Determinism has significance even beyond ath­letics (e.g. Trickie Dick Nixon and Slick Willie Clinton.) In fact, a comedian once asked the rhetorical question. "Who's tougher, someone from llillernst, or someone from OAKLAND?" The next time you hear the namns of athletes thn Irish are recruiting, take a dose look at their Nominal Determinism factor, 
Gappy Gagnon coordinates the student employees at the secunty department. Ile is also in charge of crowd man­agement in the football stadium. 1/e prefers to use his nickname rather than his gillen name ofl?ussell. fearing that he would be destined for too serious a life. 1/e can 'be e-mailed at russell. t.gagnon.2@. nd. edu. · 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I. 

~-~--·»vk 
w ...•_,@:')
l
·!~~mtNt~W~ 
O THE 

----------------Monday, October 5, 1998
BSERVER 


Special effects reign at theaters 
This week's top two films at the box office rely heavily on special effects. Scene reviews 'Antz' and 'What Dreams May Come,' as Hollywood grapples with technology and good filmmaking. 


the insecure and rambling Z, a worker ant voiced by the insecure and rambling Woody Allen. In a colony 

"Antz" 
Director: Tim johnson 
of millions and millions of little scurrying insectoids, 

Starring: Woody Allen, Sharon Stone, jennifer 
Lopez and Gene Hackman 

(Out of five shamrocks) 
By JOEY LENISKI 
Scene Movie Critic 
Where exactly do humans fit on the evo­lutionary totem pole? 
For most simple organisms, like the many members of the insect species, their life cycle will run the gambit between cre­ation, construction, procreation, restora­tion and fmally death. They are not bur­dened with the gifts of love, reason, accountability, morality or aesthetic appreciation. Driven by their duty to the colony, they labor tirelessly to complete their never-ending tasks, ignorant to the concern for others or their own preserva­tion in what amounts to a cold, single­minded existence. 
Sounds like your run-of-the-mill busi­ness major, does it not? Though simple organisms themselves, those of the busi­ness world exemplify the grand de-evolu­tion of creatures who have the abilities to transcend the mundane world but choose instead to muddle through as sprockets in the great assembly-line of life. Somewhere, Darwin is wondering where he went wrong. 
This is the underlying premise of "Antz," a surprisingly entertaining yet subtly powerful animated film by the artists at Dreamworks. The movie follows Z struggles with his place in the larger picture, doubting his own signifi­cance and asking "why?" in a society without ques­tions. 
His world turns head over heels when he happens to 
meet the beau­tiful Princess Bala (Sharon Stone) in the "common bar" and shares with her the little Uma and Travolta two-step of "Pulp Fiction." Z is smitten, which leads him on a head­strong but head-wrong mission to gain the princess' favor. Through a series of witty twists and turns, Z ends up being caught in a much larger conflict with General Mandible (Gene Hackman) and his plans for the future of the colony. This leads him on a series of adventures, ineluding a war with the ter­mites, his escape from the colony and his quest for the leg­endary "Insectopia." 
Although not a Disney film, 

"Antz" became the third Dreamworks film this year to debut at number one at the 
this is still an animated film, so hours, then go
box office. The other two were "Deep Impact" and "Saving Private Ryan." 
the plot conveniently favors the protagonists and serves up an obligatory happy ending. But there are two things about this film that do not keep it mired in the conventions of modern car­tooning. 
The first is the absolutely breathtaking special-effects work, a style similar to the computer graphics which first awed audi­ences in "Toy Story." Here the animation is not always incredibly smooth, and sometimes the viewer remembers that everything on screen was artificially-cre­ated in a lab. But aside from those moments, the film is nothing short of mag­ical. Duplicating everything from flowing water to modern cinematographic effects, this movie redefines the bounds of the ani­mated realm -even the one forged by Pixar Animation and "Toy Story." 

Did you ever wonder what it looked like to ride on a person's shoe when you are 

one centimeter tall? The spectacular attraction about computer graphics is that it can transport the viewer anywhere, transform them into anything and open up entire worlds for them to see. That experience is indelible throughout the film. 
The second aspect of the film is one that overshoots the young target audience ­the social commentary comparing the mindless colony of ants to the bourgeoisie mentality in human society. The movie is filled with many hints, asides and sarcas­tic remarks which are humorously ironic coming from the mouth of a bug ("I am struggling to find my inner maggot.")Therefore, many of the state­ments turned my focus away from what was happening on screen and towards the audience members surrounding me. 
We watch the busy little ants carrying 10 times their own weight, climbing up and over obstacles as they work towards an unclear, unreachable goal, and we laugh a1 their lack of direc­tion and indi­viduality. 
Then we go to work, make the world safe for capitalism for eight hours, drive home, turn on the television for three 
to bed and pre­pare for the next day-and the next and the next. 
"Antz'' makes us lal!gh at ourselves and the inane manner in which we create, construct, restore and procrnate like our primitive cousins. It reminds us that on the highway of evolution, humans seem to have veered o!T onto that shady-looking, back-country dirt road which is inevitably leading us back where we came from. 

"What Dreams May Come" 
Director: Vincent Ward Starring: Robin Williams, Cuba Gooding, Jr. and Annabella Sciorra 

(Out of five shamrocks) By JENELLE WILLIAMS 
Scene Movie Critic 
Soul mates? This one has been done before. 
True to form, the protagonist in any movie with such a plot must scale all bounds, real and metaphysical, to be with his one true love. As he conquers good and evil, the women of the audience swoon, and the men wonder why they did not just stay at home and watch the Notre Dame versus Michigan tape again. 
But wait. 
Although "What Dreams May Come" may lit the stereotypical 'chick flick' genre in some form, it possesses enough creativ­ity to keep the plot rolling and the audi­ence interested. Of course, Robin Williams, Cuba Gooding, Jr. and stunning visual effects do not hurt either. 
Robin Williams plays Chris, the doting husband and father who expertly bal­ances his home life with his job as a pedia­trician. His life seems to have no real problems -he is married to the only woman he has ever loved, they live in a great home and he has great kids who Chris finds himself not floating on a cloud with a harp in hand, but in one of his wife's paintings. The entire setting takes on a paint-like appearance with gelatin qualities. Here, the flowers smear color when handled, the ground sags like a sponge, and the waterfalls seem to flow without motion. And as Chris soon learns with the aid of his deceased mentor, Albert (Cuba Gooding, Jr.), anything is· possible. 

even kiss their mother good-bye. 
But when the children die in a car crash within the first 20 minutes of the film, this stable setting is disturbed forever. Only four short years later, Chris dies as well, leaving . his wife, Annie, completely alone. 
At this point, the movie veers away from the con­ventional story line. As Chris discovers heaven, the plot unfolds and the visual effects begin. Suddenly ripped away from the life he knew, 
Photos counesy ot Polygram 

"What Dreams May Come" stars Robin . Williams as a man searching for his wife in 
the afterlife. 
Anything, that is, except what Chris 
really desires, his ~nnie. And thus, the 
journey -the search -begins. 
This film does not solely focus on the 
power of the male-female and husband­
wife relationship. It also examines theories 
on death, love in its multiple capacities, 
human motivation and relationships on a 
greater scale. 
Tired cliches, such as, "never give up" 
are used not only to express determina­
tion when fueled by love, but also to add to 
the disjointed dream quality of the movie 
as a whole. These blatant statements of 
the overall theme, strategically placed to 
capture attention, are seemingly random. 
The only theme which stays present from start to finish, and ties the movie together into one coherent form is the role of rela­tionships in human life. If this aspect does not grasp hold of the emotions, it at least provides food for thought. 
I.f nothing else, Robin Williams delivers another passionate performance. He por­trays Chris, an ordinary man on an extra­ordinary mission, as no other actor could. Without being overly dramatic, he is able to express intense feelings and powerful determination. 
Cuba Gooding, Jr., in his role as the spir­itual guidance counselor, adds tidbits of humor to an otherwise tear-jerking movie. 
Yes, it's sentimental. Yes, the lines can be trite, and the theme has been used before. But to not enjoy this movie would be nearly impossible. 





IRISH INSIDER II vs. 

O THE 

Monday, October '5, 1998 BSERVER page I 

Irish Out of Reach 
By BILL IIART A,.,;.,l.lllt Spom Fdi1n1 
Tlwy say that rPvt•ngP is a dish bnst Sl'rVPd I'O]d. 
So pPrhaps it was fitting that tlw Wl'atlwr for Saturday's football ganw hPtWP!'Il Notn• Danw and Stanford. who bPat tlw Irish last sPason. would lw mw·h rooll'r than in prPvious wnnknnds. 
llut whill' tlw tl'llliWratun• droppPd for most fans in tlw stadium. tlw mPmbnrs ol' thl' Irish football squad nnvnr shownd it. using 21 l'irst-quartnr points to tri­umph owr tlw Cardinal. :~!i-17. 
"It was fun to lw alwad narly in thn gaml'," hl'ad coach llob llavin silid. "Wn \V!'I't' prPity consistPnt and wP·n~ gntting lwtll'r." 
ThP Irish gailwd nwml'ntum right on thP OIH'ning posst1ssion. raring (,!i yards on l'ight plays to draw 11rst blood. Tlw drivt• was rappPd by a 22-yard run into tlw I'IHizonn hy quartnrhack Jarious .Jackson, tlw longPst of' his carnPr. 
"I had grl'at blocking from th11 rl'rl'ivl'rs. tlw wingbarks and Pvnryorw," .Jackson said about tlw play. "Thn holn was just widI' opl'n." 
It was llw lirst touchdown in thn lirst quart!'!' for tlw Irish this stmson, but. as it turrwd out. it would not bP t.lw last. 
J\f'tpr thP df'I'PnS!' prPVI'ntPd thn Cardinal from gaining a first down, .larkson and thP oiTPnsn found them­s!'lvt•s onl'l' again with I'Xt~nllnnt l'inld position. ThP ll'am put it to good usn, rharging (,() yards in four plays to givn thP Irish tlu•ir SProrHI TD of' tlw ganw. 
Moml'nts latl'r. Stanford quartPrbac.k Todd I I usak was prt!ssurnd by llPvnron lfaqwr into a f'umbll'. which was rncov­l'rPd bv Brad Williams at tlll' Cardinal Ih-yar;l linl'. It only took two oiTnnsivn plays for f'ullbal'k. .lamil' Spl'ni~Pr to sramp1•r in six yards for till' srorl'. 
"It rnakl's it a lot Pasil'r to rail dPI'Pnsns whPn you haVI' a lnad likl' that." dt~f'tm­sivl' 1.'oordinator <;n•g Mattison said about tlw lirsl quartl'r. "Our om~nsn was doing a gn•atjob, and I think it's going to rontirurn to gl'l. lwttl'r. WP just nPnd to do our part." 
l·:ypn in ll'ss than pl'rf'l'rt situations thn Irish oiTPnSI' found a way to sron•. Aftt•r failing to rl'al'h a lirst dt;wn in tlwir lirst possPssion ol' tlu• SP!'IJIHI hall', Stanford punt1•r 1\:Pvin Milll'r hit a 42-yard punt that was dowrwd on tlw NotrP Damn 1­yard linl'. Still..lackson patiPntly IPd t.lw Irish down tlw liPid in a 1)9-yard. I:l-play toul'hdown drivl' that alP up SPVI'Il min­Uti's ol' thP l'lork and puslwd t hi' I Pad to :l!i-:l. 
It wasn't until tlw fourth quartl'r that tht• Stanford oiTPnsl' linally ramn alivn. An inlt•rTPption hy saf'Pty Aaron Focht gaVI' tlu~ Cardinal tlw hall on tlw :!0-yard linl'. rlosP to tlwir IH'st liPid position of' thl' day. I.Pss than thrPP minutt~s Ialor, tlw visitors had tlwir lirst touchdown of' tho big plays. plays on defense and showed some Saturday was rPedvor Makolm .Johnson.
thn gam!', corrrtPsy of' a liv1~ yard pass 
In tlw second quarter, a droppnd punt enthusiasm." Tho l'ifth-ynar senior had his mostwith nirw minutl's rnmaining. 
by .Jony Getlwrall gave the Cardinal linld The Irish worn led by Jackson. who impressivn garno of the soason. withAft1•r tlw Irish wrn• f'on~nd to punt on position at thn Irish IH. But the defense had three rushing touchdowns on the sevnn receptions for 113 yards and atlwir IIPXt possnssion, tlw Cardinal drow 
stopped four straight passing plays, giv­day and became the first Notre Dame touchdown. In a seeond-quartnr drive,
SPVPnty-two yards in just over four min­ing tho of'f'ensn another scoring opportu­quarterback to rush for 100 yards sinco .Johnson caught a pass for a nine-yardutns to scort! tlw linal points of' thn gamo. 
nity. Tony Hicc against Penn State in 1989. In gain while sitting on the ground.
"Tiw only way that's dissapointing to 
In the third quarter, safety Tony Driver the air, he completed 11 of l!i passes for "Jarious said he waited l'or nw and lwmo is tlw way wn linislwd it," Mattison prnvnnted Stanford quartnr Ilusak from 163 yards with one intnrception. put it on my numbers," .Johnson said
said. "You always rnnwrnhnr tlw last 
passing in a fourth and four situation, "We have a pretty good ]offensive] about the play. "lie knew I would r.tmw
part. But you'vp got to think about the 
halting anothnr possibln touchdown package," Davie said, "especially when open."
hig pil:turn: tlw kids did what wn wantnd drivt~. you add the great throws that Jarious The connection between the two play­
tlwm to do Parly, and that's what we'rn "Defnnsivnly, I thought we played with Jackson made. We arc becoming a bal­nrs promptnd some to question wlwtlwr
happy about." · a little more pnrsonality." Davie said. anced offense. It isn't easy to defend an
WhiiP tlw oiTPnsn providnd most of' tlw 
"We were able to force a coupln of offense with so many different weapons."
lir<!works on Saturday. it was tlw Irish see REVENGE/ page 3 
turnovors. W11 came up with some big Another impressivn performer on
dl'l'l'llSP that rPn~iv('(l tlw lion's sharn ol' 

QliOTE OF THE GAME STAT OF THE GAME
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
"We had to let Stanford know they were 
The Irish "red zone" offense remained perfect, scoring
.Jarious .Jackson racked up over 
in our house." 
touchdowns on all four possessions inside the Stanford 20.
260 yards of ofTnnsc and was sim­
Notre Dame has scored all 18 times it has boon in the "rod
ply too much for tlw Cardinal. 
Defensive coordinator Greg Mattison 

zone," scoring 13 toucdowns and live field goals. 
Page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, October, 5, 1998 
Jackson shakes things up for offense 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sports Editor 
On Saturday, Irish quarter­back Jarious Jackson proved that he has more in common with Elvis Presley than just sharing the same hometown of Tupelo, Mississippi: Jackson demonstrated that just like Elvis. he too can be king. 
Jackson was king of the field as he rushed for 100 yards and threw for 163 more in Notre Dame's 35-17 win over Stanford. 
"We came in pretty much focused," Jackson said. "Coach Sanford talked to me about how we needed to turn around as an offensive unit this week­end. We focused on that all week. We wanted to get the offense going." 
Jackson did all of that and more as he jumpstarted an Irish offense that put up 21 first-quarter points and opened the third quarter with a 99-yard drive. 
"I think I played pretty good," Jackson said. ''I'm happy with my performance because we won. I could care less about stats as long as we win." 

like he would only be able to
His stats were too impressive to overlook, however. Jackson 

gain a couple of yards. He also clearly played the best game 
added touchdown runs of five of his short career and is 
and seven yards. already being compared to 
Jackson was all over the field, diving for the extra yardgreat Irish option quarter­backs like Tony Rice. 
and taking on tacklers. "I've seen what those guys 
"l give everything I got on have done and it hasn't really 
every play," Jackson said. dawned on me yet," Jackson 
"You can call me kamikaze, said. "But to be compared to 
but I try to make something them is just outstanding." 
happen on every play." Jackson became the first 
Everyone knew Jackson Notre Dame quarterback to 
could run the ball, but on run for 100 yards since Rice Saturday, Jackson demon­Scrambled for 148 yards on 
strated that he can be a pass­Nov. 18, 1989. 
ing threat as well. Jackson carried the ball 18 
In his first three games, times for 100 yards and three Jackson made some good touchdowns. He also showed 
throws, but was mostly erratic the ability to break tackles and 
to say the least. elude defenders. 
Against Stanford, however, Early in the first quarter, the 
Jackson was consistently on senior quarterback hurdled a 
the mark, completing 11 of 15 Stanford defender before 
passes for 163 yards. sprinting for a career-high, 
"Jackson can throw the 22-yard run for an Irish touch­
ball," head coach Bob Davie down. 
said. "He showed good judg­Later in the quarter, he ment and made some great flashed his athleticism by 
throws." keeping on the option left and 

"We came out today throw­then reversing the field for a ing like we do in practice," 21-yard gain when it looked 
Jackson said. "I just tried to hit the open man and take 

• SCORING SUMMARY  •  STATISTICALLY SPEAKING  
1st Quarter  Scoring  1st  2nd  
ND -Jackson 22-yard run (Sanson kick)  Notre Dame Stanford  21 3  7 0  
ND • Denson 2-yard run (Sanson kick) ND -Spencer 6-yard run (Sanson kick)  Team Statistics First Downs Rushed-Yards Passing-Yards Sacks-Yards lost  ND 25 309 163 2-19  

what they give us." 

Jackson found Malcolm Johnson on several occasions, including a 37 -yard pass on a hitch and go route that Jackson timed perfectly. 
"When he sets his feet, he's really accurate," offensive coordinator Jim Colletta said. "At Michigan State, his feet were going in every direction and the ball went every direc­tion. He's getting his feet set better and throwing passes he's comfortable throwing." 
With more and more experi­ence each week and outstand­ing games like this week's per­formance, Jackson has startPd to emerge as a leader on and off the field. 
"We notice Jarious from the second he steps in the locker room, where he's getting all the offensive lineman together, all the backs together, and he's getting everyone on the same page," tri-captain Mike Rosenthal said. "When Jarious plays with confidence we play with confidence. lie's our leader on the field. We know he's going to go out and make plays." 
3rd  4th  
7 0  0 14  
ST  
20 63 284 1-6  


ND-~-Johnson 7-113, O'Leary 1-16, J. Johnson 1-16, Holloway 1-9 ST -Pttts 8-112, Davis 7-78, Wire 7-29, Allen 4-41 
ST • Fasani 1-yard run pass failed) 
{Davis pass) 

"He's where all of us thought he could improve to be. He's steady, he's even keeled, he's a leader by example," Davie said. ''I'm pleased with his progress." 
''I'm doing more talking, get­ting up there in rank with Rosenthal, but I'm not the only one that carries this team," Jackson said. "We work together as one unit." 
As the man behind center, his biggest challenge will come next weekend when he leads 
the  Irish  down  to  Tempe.  
Arizona, to take  on  the Sun  
Devils.  

"I think the next step for him is to go into that hostile envi­ronment with the crowd noise, with the problems with the snap count, with the problems with the communication and do it on the road," Davie said. 
"A win in Arizona would be great at this point for our team," Jackson said. "We want to keep winning. We're defi­nitely going to focus even harder on the road." 
Jackson is definitely hoping his reign as king can last at least one more weekend. 

v 
s 
GRADING 
THE 


IRISH 
Quarterbacks: A+ 
Jackson showed why he has drawn so many compar­isons to Tony Rice. The only difference was that Rice was a running back who threw occasionally and Jackson looked like a tailbaek who could also pass. He took the next step from the Purdue comeback and ran the offense to near perfection. 
Hunning backs: B+ 
After watching Irish game tapes Stanford figured it was just the Autry Denson show, but fullback Jamie Spencer's rumbling will give future opponents something to think about 
Receivers: B+ 
Malcolm Johnson caught everything thrown to him even when he was on his back, exploiting the worst passing defense in the land. The fact that no other receiver had more than one catch creates concern. 
Offensive Line: B+ 
The line was ready from the coin toss. Getting into the end zone on the first four possessions has a lot to do with the work of the boys up-front. That 99-yard drive was just sweet: 15 plays, 
7:10 elapsed, only one third down. · 
Defensive Line: B-
Solid but not spectacular effort from the crew in the trenches. Weaver looks like he'll be a player and Bryant was a more active. 
Linebackers: B 
Minor looked more like himself although he still isn't 100 percent Howard racked up 11 tackles including one for a loss. 
Defensive Backs: B 
Giving up 284 yards in the air ain't all that great but the Cardinal averaged just nine yards a completion. Driver's eight tackles shows he's,{ieveloping a knack for being around tho ball Williams appears to be turn­ing into a dam good corner. 
Special teams: C-Hunter the Punter had a rough day averaging just 
27.3 yards a kick and knock­ing one in the end zone from the 35. But he'll be fine. Scoring five touchdowns gave the kick coverage team a lot of work and it looks like the Irish need it. 
Coaching: B+ 
Davie had the squad ready to go and they took care of business against a struggling football team. Colletto had one of his best games days from the Notre Dame press box letting Jarious be Jarious and picking oppor­tune times to pass. 
OveraU: 3.1 
A good performance against a subpar team. There is room to improve and the staff and team knows this better than any of us. Next week will be one of the most pivotal of the season. 
ST -Miller 25-yardfield goal 
2nd Quarter 
ND -Jackson 7-yard run (Sanson kick) 
3rd Quarter 
ND -Jackson 5-yard run (Sanson kick) 
4th Quarter 
ST -Stewart 5-yard pass from Husak (Husak 

Passes 15-11-1 50-29-0 Punts 3-82 4-159 Fumbles-Lost 1-1 2-2 Penalties-Yards 7-51 7-49 Time of Possession 32:06 27:54 
Individual Statistics 
Rushing NO-Jackson 18-100, Denson 20-88, Spencer 10-80, Fisher 2-15 ST -Wire 19-76, Fasani 2-6, Lacey 2-4, Stevenson 1-2 
Passing ND-Jackson 15-11-1-163 ST -Husak 41-25-0-226, Fasani 8-4-0-58 
Receiving 


Monday, Otober 5. 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Fans' spirit provides proof of right remedy for Irish 

a very good job. So right now captain Mike Hosenthal said. we're starting to prepare for the "We want to go 1-0 every week. next one and I think our team We need to play a good game on understands that." the road. Hight now Arizona 
Davie and his stall' are trying State is the big game beeausn it's to instill into the team that the our next game," tri-eaptain Kory next game is the biggest game. Minor said. "Our next game is 
"Every ball game we play is a always ow· biggest game." big game," Denson said. "This It certainly sounds like Davin one was the biggest one because has that diehe embnddnd in his it was today. Now ASU is the player's minds. biggest game." We'll find out next Saturday in 
''I'm looking at it as it's a one Tempe if it \\ill be put into game season every week," tri-action. 
By JOEY CAVATO 
AwJCi;m· Spom Editor 

i\f'tnr t.lw first wnnkmHI in Oct.olH•r last season. tlw NotrP llanw l'oothall tPam nndurml thn long.•st airlirw flight of tlwir livns I'Vtm though il grnat dPal of' tJtnm madP tlw trip to ln•land snvPral yPars ago to play Navy. 
Tlw tPam hit rock bottom allnr 1111' St.anl'ord Cardinal rruslwd tlu• Irish :n-I :i giving tlwm tlwir fourth ronsPt'UtivP loss. 
Hut this WPPkPrHI it was lwr loyal sons dishing out tiw griPf. 
"Anytinu• you losP it tTuslws you and it hurts," Stanford Iwad roarh TyronP Willingham said af'tPr his tPam was slwllar.kPd :Ei-17 by tiw Irish Saturday. "I think tlwy Ihis playt•rsl an~ down and tlwy should IJI' down." 
Notn· I>amP lwad roach Bob l>aviP canH• into tlw intnrvit~w room singing a difl'Prnnt tunn. 
"That was a liltln bit dill'nrnnt.. wasn't it'.'" Ill' said, rnf'PJTing to his IPam's domination ol' tlw opporwnt. 
It surP was dim~nmt. And it sun• was a lot ol' fun. It was just what tlw Irish rwndr.d, it may havn hnt111 nx1u·.tly what thost~ surrounding Notn~ Damn football nnndnd, too. 
Tlwrn wasn't any spolting the opposing t11am a double-digit lnad or biting nails on a last-sec­ond finld goal. 
.Just run. 
Usually half-limn provides the studnnt snction mueh rweded bn~ak from swPating out tlw first half' as thPy dPal with thn anxiety of' trailing l'urdtw by I0 points. 
But tlw hall'-tinw Saturday gaw about as good of' an indit:a­tion ol' tlw scorn as tlw seorP­board ilsnlf'. l~vidr.ncr. canw in tlw form of mw of' thr. most t•nthusiastir. marshmallow fights in rl'cnnt lllPilHJry. Fans chnnrnd and nvtm rallind !}('hind thn lat­est addition to the half-time fllS­tivitit1S: salmon tossing in the stmior section. 
Thosn not in the midst of' flying fish tmjoymf the Motown review ol' thn Notrn Damn band cutting thn rug likn it was a Thursday at lleartland. 
After having no clue what the lirst tlm~n ganws of tlw StlUSOn would Pntail. Saturday's thrash­ing of tlw Cardinal providmljust what thn dodor ordnmd -a good old fashioned butt-kic.king. 
IIPck, twtm tlw rain staynd away. At tlw start of' tlw day, that snt•mnd about as probabln as thn Cubs coming baek against tlw Braves. 
.larious .Jarkson worknd an ommsn that was a modnl of nfli­cinnry in tlw lirst half lighting up tlw scorn board lin· 21 points in tlw lirst night minutes. The Irish deftmsn knpt tlw ninth-bnst pass­ing otli•nsn in tlw land out of paydirt until there was less than ninn minutns !ell in the game and it was trash timn. 
"That was the nmphasis all wnnk," tailbaek Autry Dnnson said of tlw fast start. "We want­ed to come out of thn chutes run­ning." 
They t:ertainly did that. 
Granted the Stanford Cardinal wnrn 1-2 coming in and had lost to likes of' San .lose State, but we haven't seen Notre Dame comn out and simply dominate under the shadows of Touehdown Jesus since last year's Boston College game, and the squad was aln~ady 2-5 by then. 
But Davie and his stall' had the troops rnady to play. They camn out and nxecuted. 
"Maybn it was the 15 minutes we lot tlwm sleep in," Davie joked rnliwring to the change in game day scheduling. 
For the lirst time No. 7 really put thn Action in "Action .Jackson" and turned in a perfor­mance that rnally does compam to a Tony Hice day. 
Jaekson took the next step al'ter eonnncting on passes in the dutch in last week's comeback win over Purdue. He eame out sharp and took command with his fnnt and arm 
Wlwn he wasn't passing at a 73-pt1rcent dip, .Jackson looked like a 220-pound tailbaek hur­dling tacklers and weaving through the dtd'ense paving the way to a :{5-:1 lead with six min­utns lnll in the third quarter. 
The only flaw in tlw oll'ensn was that it couldn't maintain tlw seoring pace late in the gamn. 
"We got a little bit sloppy latt~ in thn ganw," Davin said. "I wish wn wuld havn played morn young playt~rs. I never got totally comliJrtable in the game." 
The fans surn got comfortable as the usual fourth quart11r heart racing was replaced by thn always dillieult dual wave that even gained chuckles from the press box. 
Evnn though the only real moment of' anticipation in tlw liJUrth quarter came with the drunk driving safety message, it was a nicn change of' pace for the pulses and nails of'the Irish faithful. 
Now Jackson and the Irish will have to forge ahead and over­come the next challenge -win­ning on the road. 
Aller the upset victory over Michigan, Davie said that the pats on the back were over on Monday afternoon after the play­ers had enjoyed it with the rest of' the student body. But Saturday he said the party was over oncn the dock hit triple zeros. 
"I talknd to our team and we're putting this one behind us right now," Davie said. "It's time for us to go win a big football game on the road. We were in the same situation after the Michigan game and we didn't do 


The Observer/John Daily 

Stanford's Ronnie Pitts circus-stunt catch setup the second touchdown for the Cardinal late in the game. 
of'f'ensn was sophomore Coy erushnd, it hurts you. [The teamJ Wire. who had 154 of Stanford's is down right now, and they
Revenge 
347 total yards, and was should bn down, but they're a involved in 19 of' 24 Cardinal resilient group with the ability to
continued from page 1 
rushing attmnpts. bounce baek," he said. thPrt~ was somn psychic link Ironically, the Stanford f'oot­Despite the win, Davin is still bdwt~tm tlwm. ball team loaves Notn1 Dame ready to look ahead to next 
"I can't say," .Jackson said. with a 1-4 record: the same week's game with Arizona State. "That guy just runs gmat routns. record that the Irish had after "This was a big game for us, no Tlw [Stanf'ord[ dei'Pnsivl' hacks last year's loss to the Cai'C!inal. It question. But I told our team wt~l't' prntty much bat~king up was a fact that was not lost on that we're putting this one and letting us throw tlw balls to Stanf'ord head coach Tyrone behind us right now. It's time him." Willingham. for us to win a big football game 
Tlw loader f'or the Cardinal "Anytime you lose, you're on the road." 
• GAME NOTES AND QuoTES 
Bob Davie: "It's fun to be ahead early in the game. This was a big win for us but we have to put it behind us right now." 'Td love to be 4-0, but I realize we eould be 2-2. I'll pl'oba­bly get in trouble for saying it but 3-1, we'll take it." 
Defensive Back Brock Williams: 
"It's all about Q.ttitudc. Coach Davie said 'why ean't W<' be like other teams, like Florida? Why can't we eome out and shut somebody down from the start?' We eame out ready to play and that's all it was." 
Defensive coordinator Greg Mattison: 
"I tried to refresh their memories how it felt to walk off that field last year at Stanford. We had to let Stanford know they were in our house." 
Offensive coordinator Jim Colletto: 
"You can't have the ball much closer than your own goal line but to drive it that far, that's a great aecomplishmnnt. Those kids have gone 99 and two-thirds yard one game and 80 yards to win last week. So there's the courag<' and the heart in there and we just have to keep getting bntter with 
-
execution." 
Linebacker Kory Minor: 
''It was really niee to see us just go out there and play foot­ball and explode on a team like we did. We're eapable of play­ing great football when we want to. I think this game really showed that if we can be consistant and do that all year. we'll be fine" 
Jackson's three touchdowns were the most by an Ir·ish running back since Paul Hourning had three in 1956 
Notre Dame's 21 first quarter points are the most sinee the Irish scored 21 against Rutgers in 1996. 
The Irish offense remained perfect in the "red zone" with 
.:.
four more successful attempts on Saturday. Notre Dame has scored 13 touchdowns and five field goals in it's 18 trips inside the opponent's 20-yard line. 
Notre Dame has not had three players rush for at least RO yards since the 1995 Air Foree game when Handy Kinder (121), Denson (109) and Marc Edwards (84). Jackson (100}, Denson (88) and Spencer (80) accomplished that feat. 
Monday, October 5, 1998 

Notre Dame 35 Stanford 17 Notre Dame Stadium October 3, 1998 
Photos by John Daily, Meg Kroener and Jeff Hsu 

,•_--------------------------------------­

-~~----.. ·-~--·~----·-------·­
Monday, October 5, 1998 ------------------------------------------------------------page 13 
• VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

11King Kong" 
Director: Ernest Schoedsack and Merion Cooper 
Starring: Robert Armstrong, Fay Wray, Bruce Cabot, Victor Wong and Frank Reicher 
By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE 
Sc~ne Movie< :ririe 
What littln kid has not callnd their par­lints into tlwir room at l1mst once to dH•ck and son if any rnonstnrs an~ under tlw lwd'? 
Visions of monsters occupy the imagi­nation of us all at one tinw or another, and som1~ opt to share tlwso visions with tlw world. Those pulp liction authors havn lillnd lihmries and lilm archives with tlwir dwams, hut only a li1w crea­tures arn nmwmhen•d throughout tlw agl's. OnP such monstnr is King Kong, who was populariznd in a film by thn sanw namn in I<J:n. 
l>ul' to tlw superb filmmaking by direc­tors M1~rian Coopnr and Ernost SdiiJ('dsack, "King Kong" has bnconw an 
icon of tlw monstnr  actress to safety. The  
film gPmn. In fact,  film dons not end with  
this pion~ was  the heroir. rescue,  
rncl'ntly dtnd as one  however, as Denham  
of tlw I 00 most inllu­ still wants to captun-1  
'~ n t iaI l'i lm s of a II  Kong.  
timP by Tlw  The remaining crew  
Anwriran Film  membnrs succeod and  
lnstitutl' (i\Fil. Many  bring Kong back to  
may doubt the l:n~di­ New York City, a pop­ 
hilitv of AFI after  ular city for monsters  
seni;1g that "King  to wreak havoc. Kong  
Kong" made tlw cut,  oventually escapes  
but this lilm deserves  and finds the woman  
thn ar.mlados, if' not  he loves. lie climbs  
lhr any other nmson,  the Empire State  
for its tnehnical  Building with his  
ad1ilwnnwnl'i.  beautiful captive as  
Most critics would  the film unliJlds in its  
argue tlmt a liJr.us on  Photo courtesy of Radio Pictures  dramatic COnr.Jusion.  
spt>rial nflhcts ddracts  "Kong" is the king of monster films.  It seem~ love can not  

from quality filmmak­ing. "King Kong" s1~ems an oxe1~ption. as tlwsn l'ilm pioneers mad1~ innovations which would forever chango special nfliH:ts. Tlw dirnctors and tnchnieians lwightnrwd the quality of spndal nlli1ets, using a mixture ol' camnra tricks and rwwly d1)signnd tedmology in l:onstruet­ing the limwious Kong. The usn of stop­act ion photography is unparallnled for 11J:B. By today's standard of eomputnr g~•rwratml imaging, the nll'm:ts in "King Kong" appear comical. For 11J:n. this l'ilm was considen~d cutting edge, advanring the technieal capabilities of film hl'yond anything snnn previously. 
Tlw liuniliar plot ol' this lilm, although 


At the theaters 

Holy Man (Oct. 9) Beloved (Oct. 16) Practical Magic (Oct. 16) Bride of Chucky(Oct. 16) 
appearing simplistic:, deals with a rather complex theme. Explorer Carl Denham !Hob1~rt Armstrong) is a filmmaker plan­ning a top secret exp1~dition. He plans to journey with a large ship and crew to a far-oil' island where a horrific creature is rumored to live. Donham hopes to lilm the beast in relation to a lovely actress named Ann Darrow (Fay Wray). The nxpedition locates thn island and the cmatun), but plans go awry. 
The bo<L'it falls in love with the beauty, but due to social limitations can not have the fair maiden. King Kong then captun~s Miss Darrow and takes her to his lair. The crew pursues the beast, but Kong retaliates in brutal fashion. One man from the rescue party, John Driscoll, (Bruce Cabot) who loves Miss Darrow, survives the wrath of Kong and leads tim 
conquer all bound­aries, a sentiment that leaves the viewer li~oling sympathy for King Kong. 
I>ue to the age of the pieen certain rep­rosontations of eilmic groups and women may offend some viewers. Simply rmnember that this film arises from a dif­fenmt era and the viewm· will discover how drastically opinions have changed. But, the mastery of Cooper and Schoedsar.k still allows "King Kong" to r·nst at thH peak of the monster film genre. Enjoy this lilm and respect tho tedmieal advances made by these film pionoors -their King Kong is an immor­tal monster that mn be limn~d by us and generations to come. 

At the video store 
Lost in Space (Oct. 6) A Perfect Murder (Oct. 6) The X-Files (Oct. 13) Hope Floats (Oct. 20) 

• CHART-TOPPERS 

Movie Title/(Gross Sales) 
1. 
Antz ($16.8 million) 

2. 
What Dreams May Come ($16.1 million) 

3. 
Rush Hour ($15.0 million) 

4. 
A Night at the Roxbury ($1 0.0 million) 

5. 
Ronin ($7.2 million) 

6. 
Urban Legend ($7.0 million) 

7. 
There's Something About Mary ($3.6 million) 

8. 
One True Thing ($2. 7 million) 

9. 
Saving Private Ryan ($1. 7 million) 

10. 
Simon Birch ($1.5 million) 



Source: AP Online 

Video Title 
1
. City of Angels 

2. 
Titanic 

3. 
The Wedding Singer 

4. 
jackie Brown 

5. 
The Big Lebowski 

6. 
Good Will Hunting 

7. 
Primary Colors 

8. 
Wild Things 

9. 
U.S. Marshals 

10. 
The Apostle 



Source: Billboard Online 

-
Video Title 

1. 
Titanic 

2. 
Lady and the Tramp 

3. 
Pocahontas II: journey To A New World 

4. 
Austin Powers 

5. 
The Exorcist-25th Anniversery Special Edition 

6. 
Playboy's Playmates Revisited 

7. 
Spke World 8. Spawn 2 



9. 
Jerry Springer -Too Hot For TV! 

10. 
BoogieNights 


Source: Billboard Online 

Source: Hollywood.com 
Monday, October 5, 1998 The Observer· MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL page 14 



Leyritz's homer lifts Padres 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

Reggie Jackson was Mr. October. Jim Leyritz is becom­ing Mr. October Jr. 
Leyritz, one of the New York Yankees' World Series heroes in1996. is doing it again. He hit another clutch playoff home run Saturday night, this one a tiebreaking shot to boost the San Diego Padres to a 2-1 win over the Houston Astros and control of their best-of-5 NL division series, 2-1. 
He then connected Sunday off Astros ace Randy Johnson, giving the Padres a 1-0 lead in the second inning. Leyritz homered for the third straight day, giving him six home runs in only 34 postseason at-bats. 
Leyritz, whose stance is described by Tony Gwynn as "funky," now has six homers among his 10 postseason hits in the last four seasons. 
''I've always said that I get paid for April and October," Leyritz said Saturday night. "I don't play a whole lot in between. That's the time of year I like to play. I really enjoy those times, enjoy that pressure. Because if you do well, you get the benefits." 
Leyritz's shot to left off Scott Elarton on Saturday night came a half inning after ace Kevin Brown, brought back on three days' rest, walked Craig Biggio with the bases loaded to force iri the tying run. 
A win Sunday would put the 

Padres into the NL champi­
onship series against Atlanta 
and avoid having them return 
to Houston for a Game 5 
Monday night. 
For Game 4, San Diego start­ed a lefty, Sterling Hitchcock, who happens to have Leyritz as his personal catcher. 
Leyritz's biggest postseason homer came in the 1996 World Series when he hit a dramatic three-run, eighth­inning shot against Atlanta's Mark Wohlers to tie Game 4 at 
6. The Yankees went on to win in 10 innings ·and defeated the Braves in six games. 
The previous year, his 15th­inning home run off Tim Belcher won Game 2 of the Yankees' first-round series against Seattle. 
Leyritz also hit the first of three Yankees homers in the third inning of the victory over Baltimore that clinched the AL pennant in 1996. 
On Thursday in Houston, he had a pinch-hit, two-run homer off Billy Wagner with two outs in the ninth inning that stayed just fair to tie the game at 4. The Astros came back to win 5-4 in the bottom of the inning. 
"Never in my wildest dreams did I think he would have done what he's done for us the last week," Padres manager Bruce Bochy said Sunday. 
"He's already, in postseason, been worth the million dollars or so we spent on him for his contract," general manager Kevin Towers said. "He's been worth every bit of that." 
Leyritz was acquired in a 
trade with Boston on June 21. 
He was disenchanted with his 
lack of playing time with the 
Red Sox, who were eliminated 
from their division series with 
Cleveland on Saturday. 
At the time, Padres backup 
catcher Greg Myers was on the disabled list. Not only has Leyritz played catcher, but he's often started at first base in place of Wally Joyner when tOlC Padres face left-banders, including a start in the series opener, when he singled and hit a sacrifice fly off Johnson. He also made one start at third in the regular season and even replaced Greg Vaughn in left field late one 
game. 

Leyritz started at first base 
Saturday night because the 
Padres were facing left-bander 
Mike Hampton. But right­
handed reliever Elarton 
opened the seventh. 

"I was actually looking over 
my shoulder thinking that 
Wally might be hitting for me 
there," Leyritz said. "I just 
went up there and swinging 
and fortunately, I got a pitch 
that I could handle. I'm not 
thinking home run there." 

When Leyritz was with the 
Yankees, Don Mattingly nick­
named him "The King" after 
one homer. 

"It's kind of a playful thing," 
Leyritz said. "My wife doesn't 
like it at all. She says, 'You're 
not the king at home, you're 
only the king at the ballpark."' 
Which is perfectly fine with 
the Padres. 

'Til call him King forever if 
he keeps hitting home runs," 
Towers said. 

Gwynn chuckles when he 
sees Leyritz crouched in his 
stance. 

"His front leg is straight and 
his back leg is bent. I don't 
know how he gets it to work, 
but it's working," Gwynn said. 
Yankees visit ailing Strawberry 
Associated Press 
NEWYOBK 

Hearing the good news secondhand wasn't good enough, so half a dozen New York Yankees visited Darryl Strawberry on Sunday, a day after a cancerous tumor was removed from the outfielder's colon. 
Pitcher David Cone intended to bring one of the Yankees' caps, which now have Strawberry's number 39 stitched in white on the back. 
"We just want to show him how much we care -and we got the job done he wanted us to do," Cone said before joining teammates Chili Davis, Joe Girardi, Derek Jeter, Tino Martinez, Andy Pcttitte and Tim Haines on the trip to Columbia­Presbyterian Medical Center. about a mile from Yankee Stadium. 
Strawberry was on the Yankees' minds as they prepared for Tuesday's start of the AL championship series against Cleveland. Dr. Stuart llershon, the Yankees' team physician. held a clubhouse meeting and gave an Uf!date on Strawberry's condition. 
Hcrshon told them doctors believe the cancer had not spread, but they won't know for sure until tests come back in about 10 days. Doctors removed a 16-inch portion of Strawberry's large intestine to get rid of a tumor almost 2 1/2 inches long. 
"I think we felt a lot better because everything came out well," Martinez said. "There's a lot of relief around here. Our thoughts arc still with him, but there's a Jot better feeling around here." 
Strawberry remained in stable condition Sunday night. lie is expected to remain in the hospital for about a week. "lie's doing well. His family is with him," Columbia­Presbyterian spokeswoman SZLtping Di said. 
Strawberry also got a visit from George Steinbrenner, who didn't make it clear whethnr he went Satur'day, Sunday or both. "I was with him all day," Steinbrenner said at Yankee 
Stadium without elaborating. The Yankees were shaken when they lnarned last Thursday that Strawberry had a cancerous tumor. 
New York manager Joe Torre, who also visited the 36-year­old outfielder. predicted Strawberry's illness will increase the awareness of colon cancer among the Yankees. 
"Knowing George Stninbrenncr, there'll be very thorough exams," Torre said. "I have a f11eling we're going to have more exhaustive physicals." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Domer Run-The annual Domer Run is scheduled for October 10 at 11 a.nc Race begins at Stepan Center. Jt is a 3-mile, 6-mile run and 2~mile walk. Pancake breakfast after the race. Register in advance at RecSports. It costs $6. 

Proceeds benefit the Catherine Peacheypoundation, I Breast .C{i'(icer Re$earc 
more information,> c<lnr RecSports at 1-6100. 
One Night Badminton Sign-ups begin Sept.28 for the one night tournament. Singles and doubl~s divisions. The at the Joyce Center Gate 10 tournament will be held on 
Office for $44, Bring your October 9 at6 P:ni· at the .Rolfs nd.come. anytime between Sports Recr~~tionCenter. Fo t. 30 • Oct. 2. from 8 a.m. to more information. contact For mo.t'e information RecSports at 1·6100. call1·7356 · 
Men's Basketball Season Women's Novice Boxing ­Sale -Get your season tickets Informational meeting will be held Oct. 7 at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Boxing Room (enter Gate 3 and the stairs down to the room are located on the opposite wall of the Football and Basketball ofiices.) For more information please call RecSports at 1­
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
--­ NOTICES THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies, we're open! Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen, 7 Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!1998 BBB Award Winner!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 "OWN A BMW" Earn $$ While you Learn 247-0736 ILOST & FOUND I LOST· BEAR-SHAPED SILVER PIN wfTUAQUOISE. PLEASE CALL 273-9695. Lost on 8/28. LOST steel watch with blue crown. Blue and black face. Very senti­mental. $50 for return. X2254  Missing CAMERA!! Lost @ Purdue Game (Sect. 29). Please return (at least the film) to 216 Keenan, X3274, or where you found it ­I'll be there! WANTED ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... "TAKE 2" 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 SALES and ... EAAN $$$$. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, Padre!Lowest prices!Free Meals,Parties & Drinks. ..Limited Offer••. 1800-426­771 0/www .sunsplashtours.com ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married ND Alumni cou­ple,with adopted 3 year old daugh­ter, wants to shower a new baby with love.Artistic full-time mom,ath­letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset,trips to the zoo, grandma, play groups,lulla­bies,too.This is a home where wish­es come true .We'd like to call to get to know you.Call Shawn & Meg 800-767­4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp. paid. SPRINGBAEAK Cancun,Fiorida,Etc.Best Hotels,Parties,Prices.Book Early and Save!!Earn Money+ Free Trips!Campus Reps/Organizations Wanted. Inter-Campus Programs 1-800-327-6013 www.icpt.com  Now Hiring NEW RESTAURANT/ WINE BAA The Vine 122 S Michigan St South Bend, IN (next to_ the Football Hall of Fame) Know a little about wine? Want to learn a lot about wine? Come apply as a server or bar­tender. Want to join an exciting new business and be a part of our team? Please apply within for all positions: servers, bartenders, cooks & bussers. Mon-Fri 9 to 5. Now interviewing. WANTED: Someone to clean in a two bedroom apt. (Turtle Creek) once a week. Will pay $40 per cleaning. contact: Mike, Pat, Chad at 243­1696. FOR RENT 1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PAOPEATIES.272-6551 That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80· $115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Aoad,Exit #107, 1-800­418-9487. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info: http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 219-291-7153.  Bed and breakfast Football weekends two miles from stadium 219-277:6832 FOR SALE PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used,still in plas­tic.$225 219-862-2082 TICKETS NEED A TICKET FOR STAN­FORD? Call Brian @ 243-2623 between 11a.m. and 6p.m. TODAY I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 TICKETMAAT Inc BUY -SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645  ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Always buying and selling N D foot­ball tickets. 289-8048 HELP!! I need TWO tickets to the STANFORD game. Call me (Amy) at 243-0247. Need 4 Stanford GAs x3501 Eric Pretty Pretty Please-Need 2 GA's for Stanford Call Anne or Michelle 243-9371 Need Army GAs -not in student section-Call Stephanie @273-0893 Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU tickets. Please call 908-722-7901. 1 Stanford G.A for sale -Dave x1902 2 Stan GA's 4 sale Dan 634-0951 2 Stan Tix. B.O. Leave Message. 273-1510 2 for Army & Baylor call Steve@ 901-763-7100, x4302  NEED 2 STANFORD TIX GA OR STUDENT 634-3006 PERSONAL FREE PHONECARD 1 per home.$25 activation.Send SASE:Brenda Horton,Dept.O,POB 83461, LA,CA 90083 NOTRE DAME COLLECTIBLES Sale & Auction Oct. 23 · 11 am -11 pm LOGAN CENTER 1235 Eddy & Angela For Info, call 257-0039 Going to Chile next semester! Take advantage of the only Notre Dame-sponsored study abroad seminars on social justice, Maryknoll and ILADES! Applications (due Oct. 14) available in esc. DRUMMER WANTED to work on professional project. Work will be published on a CD in early '99. Serious musicians only, please. Contact Mike at 243-1696 LEARN TO JUGGLE Come Hang out with us on South Quad Friday 1-4. We'll teach you to juggle or maybe try out some of our stuff! http://www.nd.edu/-juggling Hey Jenny-Do you want some Candy Corn? Never mind.  
.• ',1  ~··  



page 1S The Observer· SPORTS Monday, October S, 1998 



Mistakes plague 49ers, Bills hold on for upset 
S*·NFL Scores 
26, San Francisco 21 
··,IMIDin<;fianapolis 17, San Diego 12 New England 30, New Orleans 27 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


lnnsbruck, Austria 
1999-2000 Academic Year 
Have Questions? Missed the first meeting? Want to know more? 

Come to the second informational meting with Hannelore Weber and returning students 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 4:30p.m. 119 DeBartolo 
back out and call a do-over. 
Even the onside kick, one last 
gasp to win it, we were offsides. 
It just wasn't meant to be." 
The Bills entered the contest with just one victory in their last 10 games, worst in the league over that span, but they domi­nated the 49ers from the begin­ning. 
"Everyone counted us out from the start," Bruce Smith said. "There were many doubters and that's all right. In life you're going to have people that don't respect you. But San Francisco is a good football team, a great football team. They're the best offensive team in the league right now." 
The Bills (1-3) wasted no time in taking advantage of San Francisco's secondary, which was without Marquez Pope. They came out picking on cor­nerbacks Darnell Walk1~r and Antonio Langham, who strug­gled against Buffalo's passing attack even though it was miss­ing its top receiver, Andre Heed. 
Johnson found Eric Moulds for a 50-yard reception on the game's first play and Buffalo took a 3-0 lead on Steve Christie's 24-yard field goal 
2:30 into the game. 
Johnson had 164 yards pass­ing in the first half, 87 of them to Heed's replacement, Kevin Williams. 
Garrison Hearst's fumble late in the first quarter gave Buffalo the ball on the 49ers 30 yard­line and Antowain Smith's 6­yard scoring run made it 10-0. 
Another San Francisco mis­cue, a fumble by kickoff return­er R.W. McQuarters, put the Bills in San Francisco territory 




TOMORROW 
4:30 & 7:30 PM CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Representatives, including a former Corps member, vvill be meeting vvith students interested in learning more about teaching in inner-city'Chicago vvith ICTC. 

-
.....jf 

again. Johnson took advantage by tossing a 5-yard touchdown to Quinn Early for a 17-0 lead. 
After getting down to the 49ers 1-yard line on their final 
possession of the first half, the Bills had to settle for Christie's 19-yard field goal with three seconds left for a 20-0 halftime lead. 
San Francisco had 12 first­half penalties and tied the NFL record with 22 penalties for 178 yards. Brooklyn and the Chicago Bears had 22 pf~nalties in separate games in 1944. 
"It's unbelievable to have that many penalties in a game," said Buffalo coach Wade Phillips, who got his first win as the Bills head coach. "I thought our guys played tre{l1endous and our defense was all over the field making plays." 
Associated Pr~ss 
OHCIIAHD PAHK, N.Y. 

Steve Young and San Frandsen's ofl'ense were finally eontained -by the most unlike­ly opponent, the lowly Buffalo Bills. 
Hob Johnson overshadowed his counterpart, completing 19 of 27 passes for 254 yards and on1~ touchdown as the Bills built a hig lead, then held on l'or a 26-21 vietory Sunday over the suddenly rnistake-prono 49ers. 
San Franeisro (:~-1) entered tlw ganw ranked first in the NFL in rushing, passing and tolitl ofl'onse but was lwld to just 5h yards passing and I 05 total yards in the first half, when they turned the ball over three times. 
The 49ers looked poised for a miraculous comeback in the fourth quarter, when they scored all their points. 
They recovered their onside kick after Young's 21-yard TD pass to J.J. Stokes pulled them within live points with 1 :03 left. But they were called for offsides -tying an NFL record for penalties with 22 in the game ­and the Bills recovered the sec­ond onside attempt. 
"Three turnovers in the first half and all those penalties," Young said. "That first-half is almost like you want to just go Monday, October 5, 1998 



Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
The two teams began the match very evenly, getting off to a 5-5 start in game one. The Irish capitalized on several errors by the Scarlet Knights to win game one 15-7. 
Notre Dame controlled game two from start to finish, only allowing Rutgers to score one point. The balanced attack of the Irish kept the Scarlet Knights from becoming a threat. 
Rutgers came out on fire in game three. Treadwell's serv­ing helped enginef)r a Notre Dame comeback, but Rutgers eventually won out. They defeated Notre Dame 17-15 to keep the match alive. 
"We just started off in a real lull, and that's really disap­pointing for me," said Brown. "I think game three is the most important. Rutgers' outside hitter No. 12 [Lola Opadiran] picked up the offense for them. I didn't see a real strong urgency by our team to finish off the match." 
"I don't know if we just got too confident, but we came out real flat." said sophomore opposite hitter Christi Girton. 

"The third game never should have happened." 
The Irish showed more focus and intensity in game four, which pushed them to a 15-7 victory to win the match. 
Sophomore setter Denise Boylan had 46 assists to set the tone for the Irish offense against the Scarlet Knights. Leffers and freshman Kristy Kreher were instrumental in the victory, leading the Irish in kills. Freshman Marcie Bomhack had 11 digs in the match. 
"I still have lots of things to improve on," said Kreher, "but I'm starting to get more com­fortable and things are start­ing to click with me on the court." 
The Scarlet Knights strug­gled with errors and poor hit­ting in the first two games. They dropped to 8-8 on the season, and 1-1 in the Big East. 
"I think Notre Dame did a great job," said Rutgers head coach Anne Leonard-House. "My team sat back a little bit, and you can't do that against these teams. We did fairly well, but we weren't consistent with our competitiveness. 
The Irish will be back in action tomorrow at Illinois State. 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE PRESENTS: 
RESPECT LIFE WEEK 
LITANY OF THE SAINTS/ PRAYER SERVICE 
-

MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1998 I 0:00P.M. STONEHENGE 
PLEASE JOIN US!!!!!! 
The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish commit Cardinal sin 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saim Mary's Editor 

Notre Dame began its first · dual match season hoping for the best against the best. 
The Irish optimism against Stanford, the NCAA defending national champions, was oblit­erated Friday with a 5-2 loss. 
"Under that type of pressure, some responded pretty well to that," said head coach Bobby Bayliss. 
The men's tennis team lost the edge early in doubles, giv­ing up the first point of the match before dropping four of six singles matches. 
In two of the three doubles matches, Notre Dame fell short by the score of 8-6. 
Part of the problem in dou­bles can be attributed to inex­perience in pairs, Bayliss said. 
Senior Brian Patterson and junior Ryan Sachirn fell in their first pairing as did first time partners Matt Daly and freshman Casey Smith. The one Irish win in doubles came at No. 3, where senior Andy Warford and freshman Aaron Talarico combined for a tight 9-8 win. 
The loss "was a combination of a lot of things," Bayliss said. "The level of competition was really high. The real moment of truth comes when a team can jump back in." 
The No. 1 spot "has not been pressed enough in practice." he said. 
Ironically, the top singles player for Stanford suffered the worse loss. 
Sachire, ranked eighth nationally, decisively defeated Stanford's Ryan Wolters, the sixth-ranked player in the nation. 
In two straight sets, all­American Sachire pummeled Wolters 6-2, 6-1. 
"Ryan was very overpower-
The Notre Dame College of Business and the Department of Marketing Invite you to attend the 0'Brein-Smith Lecture Series Featuring 








George S. Day 
Pt·ofessm· of Mat·keting, Goeffm·y T. Boisi t•rofessor, and Directm· fm· the lluntsman Center· fm· Global Competition and Innovation at the Whar'ton School, llniversity of flennsylvania. 
"Aligning the Organization to the Market" 
Thursday, October 8, 1998 -6:30 PM ~ollege of Business Administration, Room 162 
In addition to liis t·ole as pr·oressm·, Dt·. Day lias bt~en afonsullant to nunwt·ous •'m'tunt~ 500 l'OmJlattit~s. He Jll'estmtly serves on seven editm·ial boar·ds and lias autlitll'etl twelve books in tlie anm ol" mm·kt~tin~ anti strate~ic mana~t·mt~nt. lfis most r·ecent book, Whar·ton on Dynamic Competitive Stmtegy (jointly with llavitllleibstein), was pnblislu~d in 1997. It is with gr·eat pleasur·e that we welcome lleor·~·~ lla.v to Notr·e llam1•. 
All Are Welcome! 
•'ol' mor·e inl"m·mation t:all (21!1) li31-3277 

ing," Bayliss said. "It was the best case scenario for him ­indoors, on home court, in front of a packed crowd. lie knew he was capable of beat­ing Wolters." 
Sophomore Matt Daly also saw his first win of the season, defeating Scotty Scott 5-7, 5-4 (before the match was retired) at the No. 5 spot. 
Co-captains Patterson and Warford faltered at No. 2 and 3, each losing in two sets. 
The Cardinal claimed a key win off of Patterson's hesita­tion at No. 2. 
"Opportunities arose, but he was a little reluctant to pull tlw trigger," Bayliss said. 
Warford was so dominated by Alex Kim's forehand that he wound up spraining both ankles. · 
The Irish also saw three-set losses from rookies Casev Smith at No. 4 and Andre~ Laflin at No. 6. 
Notre Dame, however, knew the match would be one of the season's toughest. Even with an 0-1 start the Irish are not disappointed. 
"We know where the bar is," Bayliss said, "and now we've just got to meet it." 

Monday, October 5, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Wall Street Forum 
Your opportunity to learn more about: 
•Merrill Lynch •Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. •Bank ofAmeriCa •Salomon Smith Barney •Cigna •BTAlex Brown •Goldman Sachs 
•Robert W. Baird •Summit Partners Venture Capital •Credit Suisse First Boston 

·: ....... . 


Wednesday, Q~J~$er~th, 1998 
College of Busiaess;~Administration 


All Students Welcome! 
**Today is the last day to submit your resume (COBA 102) to be included in the resume book given to all firms attending the forum 
For more information call: Professor John Affleck-Graves at 631-6370 
...  
~  ' ' I I I I  



Monday, October 5, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 18 
On Friday, the driving rain didn't prevent the Irish from pouring it on.

Soccer 
continued from page 24 

Petrucelli said. "She's come a long way from where she was and I still think she's two or three weeks away from where she's going to be." 
The defense came up big, limiting Georgetown to three shots in the game and none in the first half. 
"Our defense is stellar," Erikson said. "All four of them and [Laura] Vanderberg are just awe­some. They're great in the game and in practice. I'm just glad they're on our team." 

Notre Dame scored early and often, as five dif­ferent Irish players scored. 
The Irish put four goals on the scoreboard before the 20-minute mark. Gerardo scored the game winner at 9:43, although the goal was mis­takenly credited to Erikson. 
Butler goalkeeper E.B. Larson was unable to gain control of til_e, ball and Gerardo put the loose ball into the left corner from 15 yards out. 
Following the goal, the team celebrated in fash­ion, running toward the stands and sliding on the wet field. 
"It was definitely time for us to have fun out there," Erikson said. "We're trying to make each goal special." 
Streiffer struck next at 13:59, when she launched a shot into the upper middle part of the net after Butler failed to clear an Irish corner kick. 
The Irish continued their efficiency on corner kicks when Erikson headed in a Jen Grubb corner kick at 16:25. 
"This was a good weekend for me," Erikson said. "I started to turn around my play and have more fun out there." 
Boxx got in the mix with her third goal of the season when she scored from the top of the box off a Streiffer pass. 
Heft closed out the scoring at 59:55 when she tapped in a ball that Gerardo headed off the right post. 
The defense was steady, allowing just six shots on the evening. 
"We played great in the back," Petrucelli said. "It gives me confidence for the rest of the year to know that it's tough to score goals on us." 
With the two victories, the Irish now stand10-1 on the season and 5-0 in conference play. 
"We gained some confidence in these games and it feels good," Petrucelli said. "I think we need that." 
They will play their next five games against Big East opponents. 
"We have tough games every weekend," Erikson said. "Being challenged is what's going to pull this team together." 

WOMEN'S SOCCER SCHEDULE 

OCT. 9 AT BOSTON COLLEGE OCT. 11 AT PROVIDENCE OCT. 16 AT CONNECTICUT OCT. 18 AT SETON HALL OCT. 23 AT MICHIGAN OCT. 25 AT ST. JOHN'S OCT. 30 VS. WISCONSIN NOV. 1 VS. SYRACUSE 
AUDI ..TIONS 

ND Opera · 
Thurs, Oct 8 3:30-6:00 pm 
Annenberg Auditorium 
Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. 
Roles open for Soloists and Chorus for Spring Semester ND Opera Production. 
Sign-up sheet posted in 105 Crowley. Call 631-6201 for more information. 

AUDITIONS 

When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon T1 Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 
Monday, October 5, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Our students support these local United Way agencies;shouldn't we? 
American Bed Cross Big Brothers/Big Sisters Boys and Girls Club NorthStar Catholic Charities El Campito Girl Scouts La Casa de Amistad Legal Services Program Literacy Council Logan Mental Health Association Salvation Army United Health Services 

Youth Service Bureau 

You know the reputation our students have for investing their time and talents in community service -and that reputation is well deserved. By graduation, more than 75 percent of our students have been involved in social service, many of them with the local United Way-supported agencies listed here. 
Those of us-Notre Dame faculty and staff-who make our permanent homes here can invest in our community too. We will have the opportunity to do just that in a few days when the 1998 Notre Dame United Way Campaign kicks off. Shouldn't we demonstrate the same kind of support for these agencies that our students do during their brief stays here? 
It's so easy, really. All we need do is decide what we can afford to give -however much that is -then list th~t amount on our United Way pledge cards and return them. Consider the impact: The agencies listed here provide emergency food, clothing and living assistance to people in 
crisis; day care, tutoring, and role models to children and young people; shelter to the abused; health care and support 
services to the disabled, the elderly and the ill; treatment, education and hope to the addicted; counseling and care to struggling families. 
In overwhelming numbers, our students embrace these efforts, enriching these programs with their time and talents -and enriching themselves in the process of giving. 
Can we do less? 

Join our students on the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support. 
Watch for kick-off information here and in your campus mail. 
-

Monday, October 5, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 20 
• SAINT MARY's GOLF 


Saint Mary's ranked fifth in MIAA 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE cold weather," Hathaway said. "I noon, beginning the first of' three Sports Writer couldn't kill the ball. The weath­matches left in the season. For er makes you think about how to Pekarek and the team, a top­Fighting off intermittent rain play smart golf-you have to three conference finish is a goal 
and temperatures hovering in consider the decisions you make that is attainable. 
t 1ihe mid-60s, the Saint Mary's more carefully." "Our strategy is to focus in on golfers worked their way to a Hathaway was the only SMC our short game," said Pekarek. fifth place MIAA conference fin­player to break the 1 00-stroke "If we can shave even a few ish at Olivet College Saturday. barrier Saturday, a goal that strokes off our scores, we can 
Albion College won the match Pekarek has stressed throughout get some of these girls under with a team score of 34 7. the season. 100." 
The result ranks the Belles "We've been struggling to keep One of the players Pekarek will fifth in the conference with three our scores there and be consis­look to is junior Melissa Nelson. matches to go in their inaugural tent," said Pekarek. "In one who has shown improvement season. match, though, three of our top over the course of the season. 
The Belles finished with a four girls had scores under 100. "She's taken 20 strokes off her team score of 417, led by fresh­"If we can keep our scores score this season," said Pekarek. man Mary Clare Hathaway. low, we can run as one of the top "She's been shooting in the low Hathaway turned in the team's three teams [in the MIAA confer­1OOs, and I think she can break best round, shooting a 99. ence]." 100 this season. She's someone 
"I had to play with a more The Belles tee off against who is going to be an important relaxed swing because of the Kalamazoo College today at part of the team next year." 




BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER ''ABROAD'' 
Spring 1999, Fall 1999 & Spring 2000 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
Cotnoir and Tyson Fraser each managed to block a shot in the closing seconds. sealing the game for the Irish. 
"In those last 37 seconds," Karr said, "we never got it out, but they never got a good shot. It was a little nerve­racking but we managed to get through it." 
The disciplined defensive play which kept Wisconsin at bay in the second half of the game was highlighted by Notre Dame's dominance in the face-off circle .. Although face-offs were about even for the game, the Irish controlled 13 of 1 7 face-offs in the third period. many of which were in their defensive zone. 
Sophomore defenseman Ryan Clark used his size and strength to the team's advan­tage throughout the game, and especially in the third period. Clark took Wisconsin's offensive players out of the play deep in the offensive zone. Clark's play helped Notre Dame stem the offensive tide of Wisconsin, in particular when the Badgers were on the power play. 
Irish sophomore Ryan Dolder scored the first goal of the game, sparking the begin­ning of a good night for Notre Dame's fourth line. The group, which included sophomore Chad Chipcase, created 

-


numerous scoring chances through good forechecking and played a solid defensive game -exactly what a fourth line is usually called to do. 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 
Another positive in the game for the Irish was the play of three freshmen, each in their first collegiate game. 


Wednesday, October 7th 
Defenseman Sam Cornelius saw significant playing time in 

5:00pm, 138 DeBartolo 
the absence of junior Nathan Borega, who sat out with a minor knee injury. Cornelius, paired with junior Sean 
Learn about the newest ND semester "abroad" program: Molina, played a steady game in his own end, staying home 
Earth Studies semester at Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Arizona for the most part and making crisp passes. 
(offered in partnership with Columbia University). 
David Inman centered Notre Dame's second line, along 
Unlike any other program offered to ND students!! 
with wingers Joe Dusbabek and Dan Carlson. while also seeing action on both Irish power plays. 
Brian Urick described Inman's play: "Dave is more of a finesse player with a good shot. He also did a great job forechecking." 
All in all, Urick was impressed with the poise of the young players: "It has to be tough playing your first game in front of a crowd like that against a top-1 0 team like Wisconsin. But they [the fresh­men] weren't intimidated at 



-----~----~-~---­
page 21 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 5, 1998 
• MEN's SoccER 

Georgetown edges Notre Da01e 

By ANTHONY BIANCO Assistant Sporrs Editor 
For a team dogged with falling behind early in recent games, the Irish received no relief on Saturday as the lloyas of Georgetown took two first­half goals to lead them to victo­ry against visiting Notre Dame, 
2-1. 
The Bulldogs camo out !'astor than a dog to a lire hydrant in sco1·ing tho goals and left the Irish as eoncerned as evor with their performance early in gamos. 
The Irish, ranked No. 17 by tho National Soccer Coaches Association of America, foil to 4-2-:~. including dropping to 2­2-2 in Big East play. 
On this day, the biggest let­down for the Irish was that the lloya goals were both made by capitalizing on basic Irish mis­takes. Despite the two goals in the first half by Georgetown, it was Notre Dame who led in shots after 45 minutos of play, 10-7. 
"We pretty much playml them throughout," co-captain Matt Johnson said about his team's par porformanee. "The [first] goal was a letdown. it wasn't a vmy good goal. It was more a mattor of us making a mistake. We prntty much gave them that one. 
Thn goal eame on the lloyas first serious possession 15 min­

f1%%%%%Z'%%%'%%%%'%Z%%'$%%'%%%:Z%%%%%$:Z$%%:%%£':%%:%:Z%%:%':Z%%%%%%:%1?f1?f%~ 
~ Turtle Creek Apartments I 
~ Will start handing out our application and informational packets for the 1999-~ ~2000 school year starting MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1998, between the hours of! 19am & 6pm, Monday thru Friday and 1Oam & 5pm on Saturdays. Applications I ~ must be picked up in person at the Turtle Creek leasing office only and cannot~ ~ be mailed locally. Ap~rtment availability is _on~ first come, first serve basis ~ 
1

! w1th the approved application sets. J', 
~ Thank you. ': 
~"&."a"&."&."&."&."&.~~"&,'Z;'Z;~"&.~"&."a~~~~~~"&.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~ 




tiT US! 



: ~' 
Lower level -LaFortune Student Center 
utes into the game. Midlielder Kyle Hakow crossed Mert lneekara's pass to tho ponalty box, where junior midf'ielder Jason Partenza raced to blast one off the crossbar. Tlw shot, Georgetown's first of the day, went by Irish goalie Greg Velho and onto the scoreboard to put Notre Dame behind early. Velho would finish the day stopping just two shots of tlw four that were on goal. 
Despite the early-goal, tlw Irish continued to attack, mak­ing the Big East goalie of the week, Tyler Purtill, come up with live of his seven saves in the half. 
"The !Georgetown! goal came too early for us to change to need to change our gameplan," said Hyan Cox, who leads the team in assists. "We never pan­icked and still had our chances. We were just unlucky with them." 
While the Irish didn't capital­ize, Georgetown did. Holding on to theone-goal lead through most of the first, Partenza would add another to dose out the period. This time, he redi­rectml a pass from last year's Big East co-offensive player of the year, Eric Kvello, into the right corner of the net with just one second left on the dock. 
Both of the goals were made on Irish errors on defense to protect the front of tho goal. Both of' them came on balls that landed in front of the rwt, shots that Velho never had a chance to stop. 
"It was a defensive lapsfl. We just didn't pickup people inside," said Johnson. 
The focus on putting the 
Saint Mary's College presents John Dryden's play 



Need Cash?? Earn $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
~----~-------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per tnonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
pressure on defense was stnmgthoned after the Irish let up thn first goal in each of tho last live contests, and eamn out with a 1-1-3 rncord. Saturday's loss gives the Irish LIHdr sev­enth game this season in whil'h the opponent scored first. 
"Our numlwr one priority out then~ is not giving up a goal. because you can't los•~ if' you don't give up a goal. Thn prob­lem is this ynar, it hasn't llxact­ly !'ell that way like it has in past years," Cox said. 
Attempting to keep the Irish more oiT•~ctive and on top, head coach Mike Bnrtieelli put a dil'­l'erent team on the field in tho first, most notably kenping team-leading scorer Shane Walton on the bench. Also new to tho lineup was outside mid­fielder Dustin Pridmore, who rncorded a shot in the game. 
"Coach is just trying to get the bost players out them to be effective," said Johnson. "With peopln still recovering !'rom injuries, Dustin has •~arned it." 
The sophomore mado his caso to coach Bertieelli at prac­tice, proving he has tlw ability to step into a staring role. "I was confident going in, that was my opportunity to step up and play with a team with good dwmistry. 
They really didn't have to change that mu•~h to adapt to a now player," Pridmorn said. 
Tlw ch•~mistry hogan to rnaet in tho s nco n d as tlw I r ish attempted a comeback with a goal 2(> minutes into the half. On an unassistnd goal, Cox dribbled past the lloya defense to put a shot dirnetly on goal. beating Purtill to thn em·nnr. 
Thursday-Saturday October 8 -10 at 8 p.m. Sunday, October 11 at 2:30p.m. Little Theatre 
5•inl M.,r'• Coii•J• ~ 
MO~A~ / 
~E/VTEI{,
I'OR THE ARTS 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

• 
.... 
-
... ---! ' -.\ ' • ~--~. 


RAN KINGS 
•AP POLL 



Freshman Carter tames Tigers 
Format: 

Associated Press 
1 )Ohio State 4-0 1,746 2)Nebraska 5-0 1,640 
BATON HOUGE, La. 
3)UCLA 3-0 1,575 

If Quincy Carter gets better with 
4)Tennessee 4-0 1,541 
experience, Georgia is in for a great 
5)Kansas St. 4-0 1,519 stretch. 
6)Fiorida 4-1 1,326 The freshman played an almost flawless 
?)Georgia 4-0 1,313 game Saturday night, completing 27 of 34 
8)Fiorida St. 4-1 1,235 for 318 yards and two touchdowns as No. 
9)Viriginia 5-0 1,219 

12 Georgia beat No. 6 LSU 28-27 Saturday night.
10)Arizona 5-0 1,043 

Carter quieted the huge Tiger Stadium
11)LSU 3-1 1,010 

crowd by leading Georgia (4-0, 2-0
12)Wisconsin 5-0 937

... Southeastern Conference) to touchdowns
13)Penn State 3-1 894 

on its first three possessions and 436 total
14)Colorado 5-0 755 
yards.
15)0regon 4-0 747 

"Quim:y was on lire," Champ Bailey said. 
16)West Virginia 3-1 728 

"lie just doesn't let anything get to him. He 17)Virginia Tech 4-0 637 makes plays constantly. He is an 18)Texas A&M 4-1 594 unbelievable player." 19)USC 4-1 462 Carter, a 21-year-old making just his 20)Arkansas 4-0 404 fourth. start, completed his first 15 passes 21 )Missouri 3-1 288 for 186 yards and a touchdown before his 
first incompletion -a ball Thad Parker
22)Notre Dame 3-1 274 

caught out of bounds with 1:44 left in the
23)NC State 3-1 262 

half. He also rushed for 41 yards and
24)Syracuse 2-2 169 

caught a pass for 36 yards. 
25)Tulane 4-0 114 

Carter was sacked three times and pressured frequently, but rarely stopped. 
Others receiving votes: Texas 

"The guy made plays," LSU nose guard
Tech 1 03, Michigan 76, 

Anthony McFarland said. "That's his job.
Washington 70, Miami Fla 20, 

It's my job to hit him and his job to make Mississippi St. 12, Marshall 11, plays. He did 'his job better than I did Kentucky 7, Georgia Tech 6 mine." 
Georgia needed a big offensive game after its vaunted defense, which had given
• ESPN/CoACHEs' Pou 

up just one touchdown and two field goals 
in the. first three games, allowed LSU (3-1, 1-1) to score three first-half touchdowns: 
Format: 
1 )Ohio State 4-0 1,538 

"The -one thing we told our team at
2)Nebraska 5-0 1,469 

halftime was that we couldn't get down on
3)UCLA 3-0 1,392 our defense, our defense has been carrying Kevin Faulk's 88 yards on 17 carries proved not to be enough as No. 12 Georgia narrowly 4)Kansas St. 4-0 1,382 

us all season long," Georgia coach Jim upset No. 6 LSU 28-27 on Saturday.
5)Tennessee 4-0 1,333 

Donnan said. 6)Fiorida 4-.1 1 '165 The Bulldogs went back ahead 28-21 on The Bulldogs added another first quarter grabbing the ball just above the turf for the ?)Georgia 4-0 1 '149 Carter's 17 -yard pass to Tony Small with score on a 1-yard run by Olandis Gary and touchdown. 8)Virginia 5-0 1'130 8:16 left in the third quarter. LSU cut Ronnie Bradley had a 1-yard touchdown in Each team punted only once in the first 9)Fiorida State 4-1 1,066 Georgia's lead on field goals of 34-and the second quarter. half. LSU scored on all but one drive in tho 
1 O)Wisconsin 5-0 885 41-yards by Christian Chauvin, but the Herb Tyler was almost as accurate for half, Georgia on all but two-one of which 11 )Arizona 5-0 845 Tigers never led in the game. LSU, completing 11 of 15 for 169 yards was a 14-second drive at the end of the The Bulldogs marched 79 yards on their and two touchdowns in the first half, 16 of half.
12)LSU 3-1 821 
13)Penn State 3-1 758 

first possession, going up 7-0 on a 17 yard 26 for 205 yards overall. Georgia obviously wanted to keep the pass from Carter to Champ Bailey five LSU's three first-half scores were a ball away from Kevin Faulk, allowing LSU
14 )Colorado 5-0 726 

minutes into the game. 20-yard run by Rondell Mealey in the first to start first-half drives on th1~ir 36, 34, 20
15)Virginia Tech 4-0 650 

"We had to come out and score early," quarter, a 5-yard pass to Kyle Kipps in the and 43-ya-rd lines rathor than kick to
16)0regon 4-0 619 

Bailey said. "They came right back and second and a catch by Reggie Robinson. Faulk. 
17)West Virginia 3-1 584 

scored, then we came right back and "Going into the game, I felt the team Faulk's first return was a 36-yard run of 
18)Texas A&M 4-1 514 

scored, and it kept going for a while. It which played technically better would the opening kick of the second half. lie 19)Arkansas 4-0 346 seemed like the defense was not even out win," LSU coach Gerry DiNardo said. "I felt finished with 88 yards rushing on 17 20)USC 4-1 325 there." both sides would play hard, and that's carries. He had 50 yards on returns. 
_.... 
21 )Missouri 3-1 250 Bailey, Georgia's all-purpose player, was what happened. They just played better." This is the second straight year Georgia 22)Notre Dame 3-1 224 on the field for 96 plays -34 on ofl'ense, The Tigers tied it at 21 with 14 seconds has opened 4-0. It's also the second 23)NC State 3-1 203 4 7 on defense and 15 on special teams. He left in the half when Larry Foster bobbled straight year they beat the No. 6 team. Last 24)Syracuse 2-2 181 set career highs with seven catches for 114 a pass in the end zone, bouncing it off year they defeated then sixth-ranked 
yards. Bailey and Hobinson made a diving catr:h Florida 37-17. 
25)Tulane 4-0 158 


Others receiving votes: Texas 

UP NEXT FOR NO 
... 
Tech 101, Washington 82, Michigan 78, Mississippi State 40, Georgia 30, Air Force 23, 

Fourth quarter dr.ought forces Devil loss
Miami (Fla.) 22, Marshall 18 

Associated Press 8:27 left to complete the Washington that dropped the minutes into the game on a hit scoring. Sun Devils from their No. 8 by USC's Chris Claiborne. Kealy LOS ANGELES USC was coming off a 30-10 preseason ranking. ASU fell out sustained a mild concussion and 
Ifeanyi Ohalete returned a loss at Florida State last week in of the rankings the following didn't return. blocked punt 14 yards for a which the Trojans completed week with a 26-6 loss to Elliott, a redshirt freshman,
SO_H Pe 

touchdown early in the fourth just three passes for 23 yards. Brigham Young. stepped in and nearly threw an quarter Saturday, putting No. They trailed ASU 17-7 at The Trojans drew within interception on his first pass. ... 21 Southern California ahead halftime, and appeared to be on three points on the first play of But he settled down, and for good in a 35-24 victory their way to a third straight loss the fourth quarter when completed a 4-yard touchdownTHIS GAME WAS aga'inst Arizona State. the Sun Devils. freshman quarterback Carson pass to Kenny Mitchell with 11 TAKEN A LITTLE J .H. Redmond had a Redmond scored on a 2-yard Palmer threw a 20-yard seconds left before halftime, 
school-record 350 all-purpose run with 5:03 to play in the touchdown pass to H. Jay extending ASU's lead to 1 7-7. 


BIT PERSONALLY, 

yards and scored a touchdown third quarter, putting ASU Soward and a 2-point Elliott was 16-of-32 for 157 AND''WE WANTED TO ahead 24-13. Courtney Jackson conversion pass to Ted Iacenda. yards with one interception and
for the Sun Devils (2-3, 1-2 Pac-10), who were outscored intercepted a pass by Mike Van Palmer, who replaced Van was sacked six times. 

REDEEM OURSELVES

-22-0 in the final period. Haaphorst on the previous Raaphorst near the end of the Van Raaphorst, whose FROM THE Antuan Simmons blocked series to give the Sun Devils the third quarter, was 4-of-7 for 69 brother, Jeff, was MVP of the Stephen Baker's punt, and ball. yards and a touchdown and was 1987 Rose Bowl for Arizona

EMBARRASMENT OF LAST 

Ohalete scooped it up and ran Redmond, a junior tailback, sacked three times. State, was 11-of-23 for 191 
YEAR." untouched into the end zone ran for 214 yards on 33 carries Soward caught a 23-yard pass yards with one interception and with 13:16 remaining to give and surpassed the 200-mark in from Van Raaphorst in the two sacks. USC (4-1, 2-0) a 28-24lead. all-purpose yards for the third opening minute of the third He rushed for his first career
-Jerry Rudzinski, OSU 

David Gibson intercepted time this season. quarter to cut ASU's lead to touchdown -an 8-yarder that
linebacker about the win 

backup quarterback Chad He had 254 all-purpose yards 17-13. tied the game 7-7 in the secondover Penn State, 28-9 Elliott's pass and returned it 16 and a touchdown in a The Sun Devils lost starting quarter, and returned to play
yards for a touchdown with season-opening loss to quarterback Ryan Kealy 1 1/2 the final minute of the game. 
Monday, October 5, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 

HAVE THEY GoT lliE1R 
THAT WE HAVEN'T LUNCH 
Go1?.' HUH ?.1 TRA'YS? 
'-­

DILBERT 
~==============~IE
FROM NOW ON, ANYONE. W\-\0 MISSES A STAFF 
MEETING MUST 13UY DONUTS FOR THE NE.XT 

~----------------------~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Film director Wertmuller
1 Jim at the bar 32 Adventure hero s Long Island 
--Williams

town 35 Grateful?
10 "Want to hear a 
0
.. ~ 
@ 
.. ~ 
".. 
~ 
E 
0 
0 
t: .8 


secret?" 14II's tender in 
Turin 15 Actress G1a 16 Bar assoc. 
member 
11 Like a gemologist's drinks? 
19 Kisser 
20 Migrants' advocate Chavez 
21 Sans mixers 22 Latest thing 23 Carafe quantity 25 Fictional hotel 
hellion 27 First-rate 3oStatic-­
38 Tailward, on jets 39 Sangria container 41 Gentle handling, initially 42 ---dicit (legal refusal) 44 Ike's onetime singing partner 45 Luau entertainment 
46 Skip over 
48 Worker with a scythe 
50 "The Song of the Earth" composer 
52 Highly hackneyed 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
BILL AMEND 
You'RE NoT HELPING, NICOLE. 

SCOTT ADAMS 


47Tap 56 Miller beer option 49 Part of 58 Seine Ieeder SEATO 
59"C6mo-­

50 Fudge flavor usted?" 51 Let have 60 Do a bartending 52 Davis of "Now, job 
Voyager" 63 It may finish 53 Hurt second 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available lor the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
27 Scotch family 28 LP player 29 Like a roofer's 
drinks? 30 Lawyer Roy 33 Diminutive 
suffix 34 Sprint rival 3&Word lor a 
madame 37 Lasting impression 39 Barre room 
bend 40 Bring home 43 Mistreats 45 Vestibule 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5,1998 ­

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Miller, Diane Cilento,
r

Mario Lemieux, Josie Bissett Happy Birthday: Don't hold back. Set your sights on your goals and 
forge ahead. You can have it all if you are precise, determined and confident in your pursuits. This is a terrific year to lay out your plans and take action. You will find it easy to round up the support you need if you usc your sophisticated manner to persuade those in influential positions. Your numbers: 2, 15, 17, 26, 35,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is not the day to give unwanted advice. It's best to listen and observe. You'll damage your own reputation if you insist on gossiping about others. Friends will get quite upset if you take sides. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It is best to make your own arrangements if you don't want to be disappointed or left out. Don't be dependent on others. Instead, you should do things for yourself. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have a thirst for knowledge. Lis­ten and you will rick up valuable information. Trave should be a part of your plans for the day. Short outings will bring about love possibilities. 0000 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Ex­pect to have sudden changes regard­ing your relationships. Residential moves will be to your benefit in the long term. Larger quarters or more people on your domestic scene loom. 00 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Expand your circle of friends. Don't be afraid to volunteer for positions that involve working within your community. New connections will lead to adven­-lure and excitement. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Spend time with those who could use your help. You need to be around individu­als who you find stimulating. Look into personal changes that wiU make you feel better about yourself. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use extra discipline to enable you to con­trol bad habits. Limitations may develop if you have children who need your attention. Beware of poor financial maneuvers. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social activities will enhance your love life. Don't deal with legal docu­ments or personal papers today. Your anger will mount if a joint venture isn't working out. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Follow through with projects that you can do by yourself. Dealing with those you love could lead to upset. It is best not to discuss personal matters today. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Slow down and enjoy life. Rethink your intentions and you won't find yourself in an awkward position. Minor mishaps can be expected if you don't think about what you art' doing. 00 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your intuitive insight will gi\'e you the upper hand when dealing with others. You need to spend time with those 1\'ho have the same intellectual interests. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your overactive imagination may lead to bad dreams Try to put your personal life in perspective. Stop running away from your problems. You can't make changes unless you're willing to ackno\\'ledge what needs to h<' done. 000 

Birthday Baby: You have a will of your 0\\'11. You are strong, determined and willing to do whatever is nl'Cessary in order to do things your own way. You were born with the ability to intellectually manipulate others. You are a born leader and a no-nonsense individual. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
-
-
-· 
.. 



• Men's soccer fell 
• Kevin Faulk's 88 victim to Georgetown, 
yards proved to be too 
2-1. 
litde as Georgia upset LSU at Tiger Stadium. 
p.21 p.22 




PORTS 
O THE

page24----------------------------------------------Monday, October 5, 1998
BSERVER 

• HOCKEY 

_Irish play spoiler in Badger home opener 
By TED BASSANI 
Sports Writer 
Saturday marked the dedi­cation of the Kohl CPnter, the new Wisconsin hockey facility. but the Notre Dame squad was more than happy to spoil the party. Starting right where they left off at the end of the 1997-98 campaign, the Notre Dame hockey team notched its

-
first big road win of the sea­son in against the Badgers. An enormous crowd of 13,398 saw Wisconsin out­shoot Notre Dame 31-18, but fail to overcome a great per­formance by Irish goaltender Forrest Karr. With a one-goal lead after one period of play, the Irish found themselves down a man for much of the opening min­utes of the second period. As a result, Wisconsin controlled the offensive play, outshooting 
• WoMEN's SoccER 

the Irish 12-0 to start the sec­ond period. 
"When you start out killing a penalty, you tend to get defen­sive. They were playing in front of a big crowd, and man­aged to get some momentum." Karr said. 
But Karr was up to the chal­lenge, stopping 11 of the Badgers' first 12 shots. 
During that early, second­period barrage, Wisconsin's Dan Bjornlie netted the equal­izer some seven minutes into the period. Less than three minutes later however. Irish senior Aniket Dhadphale, who led the team in goals last sea­son, backhanded in the game­winner on a rebound shot in front of the net. 
The play from that point on consisted mainly of missed opportunities on both sides, perhaps due to both teams' rustiness following the long 
off-season. However, the ice surface became a factor as well however. 
"With a crowd of 13,000 or so, the place starts to get hot. When that happens, the ice surface softens up and gets slow and slushy. and as a result, the puck starts bounc­ing a little bit more," senior captain Brian Urick said. 
Despite the conditions, Wisconsin managed to put together an offensive attack in the final minutes of the third period. Most of the play was on the Notre Dame end, but the Irish were able to limit Wisconsin's quality chances with some key defensive plays. 
The Badgers took a time out with 3 7. 3 seconds remaining in the game to set up a furi­ous. last-gasp assault. Unfortunately for the Badgers, Notre Dame defenders Benoit 
see HOCKEY I page 20 
ND records sixth-straight shutout 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The second-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team recorded its sixth straight shutout this weekend as the Irish closed out a six-game homestand at Alumni Field with a 5-0 win over Butler and 8-0 victory over conference oppo­nent Georgetown. 
"We really enjoyed this week­end," Meotis Erikson said. "It was time for us to play well and I think we were on the right track." 
The Irish came out slow against the Hoyas on Sunday and didn't get a shot off until nearly 10 minutes had expired. 
"I think we played well," Chris Petrucelli said. "It took us awhile to break them down and score, but I think we were in

-
control or the game the whole time." 
By the time the final horn sounded, the Irish had put up 40 shots and eight goals. 
Anne Makinen, Jenny Heft, Monica Gerardo and Erikson all had two goals on the afternoon. 
Heft had the game-winner at 
36:38 and Gerardo followed almost a minute later when she dribbled around the defender and blasted it into the left corner of the net to give the Irish a 2-0 advantage. 
Notre Dame came out fired up in the second half, scoring just 19 seconds in, when Shannon Boxx found Heft in front of the open net. 

·­
Gerardo added her second of the day at 6 7:4 7 and assisted on Makinen's goal at 72:09. 
"Monica had a good week­end," said Petrucelli. "She scored some goals and played with enthusiasm. She was a key player for us." 


Erikson had her first goal at 72:21, just 12 seconds after Makinen's, when she stripped the defender of the goal kick and scored. She added her sec­ond at 83:47 when she volleyed in a cross from Jenny Streiffer. 
"I've gotten off to a slow 
start," Erikson said. "I had an injury and was out for two and a half months this summer. So it's been a struggle for me to to get back and get fit and get confi­dent." 
"She's starting to get there," 
see SOCCER I page 18 

OCT. 24 NOV. 6 NOV. 7 NOV. 13 NOV. 14 NOV. 20 
• VOLLEYBAll 


Netters win two 
in Big East opener 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team started off the Big East season in style, with victorios over Seton Hall and Hutgnrs to keep the home crowd happy. 
The Fighting Irish (5-5) extended their winning streak over conference opponents to 78 with the two wins. They have not lost a conference match since joining the Big East. 
"I feel like we really made some good progress in prac­tice these two weeks, and it was evident tonight," said Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown. 
Friday, the Irish dominated the Seton Hall Pirates, win­ning in three games by scores of 15-7, 15-5, and 15-10. The Pirates dropped to 7-8 on the season with the loss. 
"We really wanted to just come out and set the standard for all our conference games," said sophomore middle block­er Jo Jameyson. 
Notre Dame was able to build on a quick start. The team got out to a 9-4 lead in game one and the Pirates were unable to battle back. 
Notre Dame benefited from the return of junior Mary Leffers to the starting lineup after knee surgery in the off season. 
"I thought she offensively had some great shots and hit really hard," said Brown. "She's well on her way back to being where she was last sea­son. 
An early load in game two helped the Irish put that gam!' away. 
Game threP was much morn closely contested, but thn Irish pulled away with the victory. They scored the last nine points, led by the serving of freshman Marcie Bomhack and senior captain Lindsay Treadwell. 
"The only thing that both­ered me some was that we had a little mental lapse in game three," said Brown, "but then we came back real strong and didn't let them score another point." 
Treadwell was a strong fac­tor in the Irish victory over the Pirates. In the match, she recorded a hitting percentage of .688. Treadwell led the team with 11 kills and 10 digs, while playing without a single error. 
The Pirates were hurt by a low hitting percentage of .208. They were forced to rely heav­ily on juniors Kadri Kruus and Jennifer Mumby, who could not make up for the team's high number of mistakes. 
The Irish came out with a 3­1 victory over the Rutgers Scarlet Knights yesterday, bat­tling back from a nail-biting loss in game three. 
"Ultimately, I think one of the things that is good for us is our offense is very balanced. and we spread the ball around a little bit," said Brown. "Having LetTers back gives us a lot of flexibility." 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 16 

at Arizona State vs. IUPUI 
Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Tomorrow, 7:30p.m. 


SPORTS 
Hockey vs. Lake Superior State
ATA 
Friday, 7 p.m. 

at Boston College at Illinois State Friday, 3 p.m. Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 






